r ' I ' I '\ Founded at Union College 1877 Vol. 101, No. 19 SCHENECTADY, NEW YORK JANUARY 5,1972 Price Twenty Cents Program In Israel Begins This Term Great Danes Over Union In Christmas Tournament Twenty six undergraduates from here are spending three months this winter on a Kibbutz in Israel as part of the· college's foreign study program. This is the first group from Union to spend a term in IsraeL Most of the students are at a Kibbutz north of Haifa while a small number are at a second northeast of Tel Aviv. About 60 percent of the undergraduates involved come from Jewish family backgrounds. The rest, according to program coordinator Stephen M. Berk, a history instructor, appear to have been drawn t0 the program by features such as the comm~nal org~nization of the Kibbutz. The students are all working a six hour day on the Kibbutz, participating mainly in the seasonal fruit harvests. In addition, all participants have been assigned projects such as studying the communal education and economic systems and the history of the Kibbutz in Israel. Members of the Union group will not have formal affiliation with any Israeli university because at the time the program was arranged, language and calendar problems prevented such an agreement. · However, 18 of the Union students have been studying Hebrew at the college this fall and all have participated in an on compus program that featured presentations by Kibbutzim representatives based in New York City. The term in Israel is patterned after similar Union foreign study offerings in Europe and South America. The program was developed formally after three undergraduates at the college spent three months in Israel last year on an independen) study. __ O.ne of -tbose three_ is returning with the group of 26 this winter. According to coordinator Berk, much of the Israeli willingness to accept this program is due to the labor shortage during the winter harvest season. in summer the tourist influx helps alleviate this problem which is mad~ more severe by the absence of young Israelis who are in military service. The group left Jhe United States Dec. 19 and will return March 22 .. A week long tour of the country has been arranged for the students by the Kibbutzim organization. by BILLY HIBBARD During the holidays, basketball teams throughout the nation were involved in tournaments. This area was no exception, as Albany State hosted the I 1 th annual Capital District Basketball Tournament. Participating were Siena, RPI, Albany State, and defending champion Union. Everyone's pre-tourney pick was Siena, who had streaked to a record of 5-0, averaging 91.8 points a game with a winning average of 18 points. Siena's stats were impressive; they bad 7 men averaging 7 points or better, and 3 with an average of 10 rebounds or more. Leading the Indians in scoring were Junior Fred Shear (20.4), 6' 10\ Eric Stappenback (14.8), and soph sub Rod Brooks (14.6). 6' 3\ Soph Don Rafferty joined Stappenbaek and Shear as double-figure rebounders. Siena has good height, a good bench, and a potent defense. If the predictions were right, Union wouldn't make it to the finals, since its opening round opponent was Siena. The Garnet hoped to defeat Siena in a repeat of last year's opening round, led by All~ American Jim Tedisco (20.3), ·- and three inside men - Tom Bacher (I 6.3), Geoff Walker (13.5), and Mike Doyle (12.8). Bacher, Walker aHd Doyle are all top rebounders. The other starter was Chuck Abba ('1.8). Many felt, however, that Siena's overwhelming height and bench str.?ngth would be too much for the Dutchmen. Siena opened fast behind Fred Shear and Eric Stappenhack. leading 21-12 after 10 minutes. With about 5 minutes remaining, Coffeehouse Pre·sents Paul MacNeil, John Bridger In Concert Friday or his determination not to regret its end: Ain't gonna cry for your love no more, Tedisco took over, hitting on 3 straight long jumpers and a foul shot, to knot the score at 27 with 2 minutes 48 seconds left. Bacher hit two straight, and it was Union 32, Siena 29 at half time. Don Rafferty - tremendous under the boards - picked up three fouls and sat out much of the first half. Failure to hit from the foul line prevented the Garnet from taking a bigger lead. The Indians went ahead 36-34 at the sta.rt of the second half, but Bill Carmody, who played well substituting for Abba, hit a basket to even: things up. The next few minutes saw three .ties and six : iead -changes. With 10 minutes left, Tedisco missed a jumper, but grabbed: the rebound and made a fantastic backwards layup, giving Union a 54-46 lead. Then Stappenback hit 3 short shots, and Rafferty added one following an offensive rebound. Siena was now within two, 60-58, with 5 minutes 37 seconds left. Bacher fouled out at 3 m,inutes 18 seconds with the score 64-61, a-nd Walker left with 5 fouls two minutes later. The Indians had several chances in the dosing minutes but could not capitalize. They missed several foul shots and miss.ed a layup with 5 seconds remaining. It was Union by 3 at this point, b'Ut Stappenback tapped in a missed free throw and the final score was Union 66, Siena 65. Tedisco hit 17 in the se.cond half and finished with 29. Doyle (13) and Walker (9) were tough off the boards and Walker added an excellent defensive performance on Fred Shear. holding him to a 6 for 21 shooting mark and oniy 3 of his last 18. Stappenback was I 0 for 11 from the field. and totaled ll rebounds and 22 points. In the finab. l'nion faced Albany State. \Vh1 • h;•d d,·feated RPI 65-54. Many thot;ght I' •1ion would win the finale c.1si h. ·- ~ c SUNY played Oat again~t R i'i. The Alb-any gym, which sc,ll, 2800, was less than fulL Siena beat the Engineers m the consolation, 92-82, behind Fred Shear's 30 points. Union looked very good in the first 12 minutes of the championship game, opening to a 27-13 lead. Tedisco had 12 and Bacher 11. Albany's leading scorer, John Quattrochi, was on the bench with 3 fouls, but they stormed back behind Byron Miller and sub Bob Rossi. Miller hit 5 hoops and Rossi added 4 long jumpers as the Great Danes took a 32-30 lead into the locker room. Quattrochi returned in the second half, but was not much of a factor until the closing minutes. Scoring 10 straight, the Garnet went ahead,. 46-42, but after that it was all State. In the final six minutes Albany went to a zone and Union could not hit from the outside. Tedisco took only 6 shbts in the second half, and the Dutchmen were 8-29 as a team for that half. Late in the game, Union was forced to foul and· also picked up 3 technicals. Jhe Danes made 7 consecutive free throws, and also got a short jumper, with seconds remaining, to win 69-55. Union totaled 4 technicals and had 2 players ejected. Quattrochi, scoreless in the first half, got 10 in the second. and Byron Miller scored 10 to finish with 23. Miller also had 16 rebounds. Bacher had 18, and Tedisco 17. but both hit only 5 in the final 20 minutes. Union outrebounded Albany 40-33, with Bacher getting 13, Doyle 11. and Walker 9. The big factor in the Dutchman loss was poor shooting from the field. The Great Danes finished 23-58 in field goal attempts, while Union hit only 17-50. The Garnet hit 21- 24 from the charity stripe, compared to Albany's 23-32. Selected to the All-Tourney team were Fred Shear, Siena; Tom Neufer. R PI; John Quattrochi, Albany; and Tom l .tcher and Jim Tedisco, Union. Ai 1 ,:my's Byron Miller won the Mv::. Friday, January 7, the Union College Coffeehouse starts the new term and the new year with Boston recording artist, Paul MacNeil. Something of a fixture in the Boston-Cambridge area, Paul has been writing and living there for the last ten years. Although he writes primarily for himself and to express his own ,motions, his material appears in performances and recordings by artists from Bob White to Tom Rush and Roberta Flack. CIRCUS magazine, in a critique of the new music coming out of Boston, discussed B rmi~ F- itt and Paul's companions, Bob McCarthy, f ul Geremia, and Jaime Brockett, but went on to say that \undoubtedly the finest folk talent Boston hds ever produced is still Paul MacNeil.\ Your love ain't mine, and that's for sure. 1 And as important as the lyrics is his music Wrestlfn·g Now Underwau light and quick one moment, subtle and haunting . :J Hampered for years by internal conflicts, drug hassles, and demand for total artist control, MacNeil could not, UIJ.til recently, record. But, finally, after changing musicians, re-recording, and . the usual re-working of his own thoughts, he's finished his first album, to be released in early February on Atlantic records. MapNeil's lyrics reflect his many moods - his boyishness and spontaneity pour out in \If It R~ns~ · · /fit rains, maybe we could find some shelter- Hop a subway train and race around helter- skelter. his regret over a lost love in \Love Was E.asy:\ I wish I could say love was easy, an easy word to say. 'Cuz once I gave love, it was easy- And I gave it all away. the next. An ardent fan of Paul Siebel, his ·· performances of \Louise\ and \Uncle_ Dudley\ W1'th make you laugh while your heart cries, and \Whiter Albany T o:Jrnament Won Shade of Pale\ suddenly goes beyond any feeling Buffalo Springfield ever gave it. MacNeil - above anything else - is a versatile performer - the kind of musician who can sing \Give Me Lots More Marijuana\ one instant and then wrench y<:>u from your laughter with a compelling rendition of B. B. King's \The Thrill Is Gone.\ Appearing with MacNeil will be Union sophomore John Bridger, who delighted the Finals Freebie audience with his Crosby, Stills, Nash arrangements. And that's only the beginning! The rest of the term is yet to come, when the coffeehouse will present: Jan. 7: Paul MacNeil and John Bridger Jan 14: Pat & Victoria Garvey and Bob Field Jan. 21: The Green Briar Boys Jan. 28: Paul Geremia - Boston blues and folk singer Feb. 4: John Roberts and Tony Barrand Feb. 11: Hal Parrish ...... more from Cambridge Feb. 2S: Bob McCarthy Mar.lO: FINALS FREEBIE H So, be with us this Friday, Jan. 7 - 8:30 in the Old Chapel - for .a guaranteed good time. Admission is still 50¢, but the old favorites - coffee and donuts - are free, free. free! by MINNER Last year the Garnet wrestling team electrified the Union College grappling crowd by winning ten straight matches after taking the Albany State Invitational Wrestling Tournament with confident ease. On its way, it produced three talented frosh who among themselves amassed 40 victories with only 4 losses and one tie; included among these victories - 17 pins! It produced one sensation who single-handedly rewrote five records into the books, including an atnazing string of 10 consecutive pins. Its junior captain with a 12-3 record had to settle for the fourth best point total on a team which lost but once in fifteen matches. And they are all back this year. Once again they have taken the Albany Invitational, successfully defending their crown with 74 points against Albany State, Dartmocth, and Williams. To refre~h your memories, it ·is AI Calabrfl. 118.(14-1, last year), Mark Zullo at 126 (13-2), and- Howie Bened1-;t, at heavyweight {13-1-1), now the sophomore sensations, who thrilled us with exciting wrestlinf la~t year, with Calabro capturing the trophy for most team points b.r virtue of his ten pins. All three are at it again as the trio hopped off to 2-0 records by taking fint place in the tourney. Benedict n:gistered a 45-second pin in the final. Taking runner-up Iaurds in the Albany State event wer-e Garry Morris at 190, Gary Gut'rney at 158, and freshmen Bruce Freeman, 134, and Barry Markman, 167. Pat Wardell (177) was placed 3rd by losing an Continued on Page 4 _ _, I '•·

Page2 CONCORDIENSIS, Jan. 5, 1972 New Year's .. Retrib·ut;ion ~ . . ' ·- ' . ~ 1 n>Pr111 4 ~}9\' ::S.'?r\··~~ '., , .. _~ t, ;: .... , • ' . 1'-•' O.lnnrnr 11 1~ 95 ?ttrnsis ao·\~•·\·' r'id \Q.r:t~~ ., or·: Managing Editor Doug Wong ~C't ........ Editor\in•Chief Louis S. Snitkoff News Editor Howard Stone Features· Editor Matthew Swartz the party life of Sheila Strife Asst. Managing Editor Gail W. Goodman Contributing Editors William Holleran Mike Meserole Peter Bickerman · Sports Editor Georg~;: S. Bain Photography Editors Jody Saslow Charles Long Assoc. Photography Editor Dave Conrey Business Manager Joseph P. Achenbaum National Advt. Manager Mark Shulman Subs~riptions Manager Michael Hurley STAFF: M..-k Urman, Jim Smith, Bruce Turecamo, Bob Jolms~n. Jim Rostenberg, Chris MandeVille, ~ Fnnk DeLucia, Les Goldman, Rosemary Rice, Don .Kaplan, Ritll ·Morandi. Barbara McDonald, PattY Sipe. Richard Kern, Gary (Leapin') Leiderman, Marty Berman, Mark Mindel. AI Reisch, Jerry Macher, Joe Monkofski. Published Tuesdays and Fridays dunng the school year by the student body of Union College, Schenectady; N.Y., National Advertising Representative, National Educational Advertising Service, Inc., College Publishers Representative, 360 Lexington Ave., N. Y .C. Editorial office, Old Gym, Union College. Publication Office, The World Publications, 771 State Street, Schenectaqy, N.Y. 12307, 346-23S6, Entered in the Schenectady post office as Second Class Mail Matter. Subscription 20 cents a copy.$8 a year delivered anywhere in the United States. Administrative Bureaucracy The following complaint may seem to consist merely of a repetition of that which is familiar; the subject being bureaucratic ineptitude at Union College. Of course, it would be untrue to assert that we on this campus are the victims of an unusual phenomenon; for administrative organizations throughout the world seem afflicted with a common ailment ~ the quality of decreasing efficiency, resulting in greater annoyances for the subjects of administrative control. · · There are many who believe that true competence is virtually impossible to achieve within a large-scale agency; one may point to the federal government as an example of this. However, there should be considerably less reason for bungling when the scale of activity is ·that of a small, tranquil (if not somnolent) liber{l:l arts college. To put it more blunt.Jy, there is no excuse for many of the endless hassles which members of the Union community must endure as a consequence of administrative ineptitude. by MATTHEW SWARTZ \What are you doing here all alone, Miss?\ \Nothing. What does it look like I'm doing, Mister?\ There was sarcasm in the girl's voice. \Can I get you a dt:ink?\ .. I'm not thirsty.''~ : : . ''How about ~ joint? They've got some pretty good grass going around.\ \No.\ \Well do you mind if I sit down?\ \It's not my house. You can do whateVer you want.\ \Thanks. Say, how come you're all by yourself? Didn't you come with anyone?\ \Yeah but he's out there somewhere.\ The girl motioned to the throng of people out in the middle of the room. \If he's out there, how come you're here?\ \I wanted to think a bit.\ \About what? Who comes to a party to think?\ \I didn't come here to think; I'm thinking about these people and ... anywl'l.y, it's none of your business.\ \OK OK. Would you prefer that I leave you alone?\ \Like I say, it's not my house. Do as you like.\ \You really interest me, you know that? Hell, with everyone coming here to get drunk or pick someone up for later, you're sitting here thinking. That's something. Who: .. \ \You see. That's exactly it. Everyone came here with all these motives. Before they even got here, they knew exactly what they were going to do. What if . . no one else showed up? Wouldn't! \Yeah I'm the Queen of that have made you feel like ~ · Hearts, Go on, beat it.\ fool?\ She watched the confused boy \That's impossible. This is a ret~:e~t, }ook~ng questioningly . party. People were invited, they. over his shoulder as be did. God, had to show up.\ what a jerk, she thOught. What a \What if the damn wotld mindless jerk. ended? Then y()u couldn't hav1;1 · Why did she go to tl~e j>l!rtY , done what you planned. Alway~ anyway? Surely she could have planning. Always having to' know avoided a · lot of bother by in advance what you're going to staying at home. do.\ '\Come on Sheila. ·why don't \Slow down, will you. I don't you get t:lP and· dance. You're too think I'm following.\ pretty to be a wall flower.\ \Not following me. What the \ldon't want to.\ hell's the differe.n~? The way I \Stev~ just c~me up to me and look at it, the only person that said you were · talking· about can possibly understand the way suicide or something.\ you feel is YOU, so that's why· \I guess J. was just being I'm thinking. I'm trying to theatrical, that's all. Nothing to understand why I feel the way I worry about, Caren.\ do.\ \How about a drink, then?\ \Do you feel this way often?\ \No no thanks.'' \What does it matter how \Would you like to talk? Come - often I feel this way, I feel like on, tell Caren what's on your this now.\ mind.\ \Well you just sounded a little ••rr you must know, it's all suicidal and I got scared.\ these people and their mind \That's another thing. Sui<;ide. games. Running their lives like a What if I killed myself right here; game. Rules, game plans, the right now. Right in front of all whole bit. Why? Why bother these people laughing and living if you have to live · playing all their ridiculous defensively?\ games. At a party, what a place Caren pulled a chair alongside to go. With all your 'friends' her friend and sat down. watching you. That's really a \I don't think I understand la.lJgh.\ you, Sheila. I've never heard you ••You are strange. My God, talk this way before.\ what a strange bird.\ \Well I have. But not to \There you are criticizing other anyone. It's just something I've people when y0u probably need been thinking about recently, the criticism a hell of a lot more. that's all.\ Why don't you go pick up some The two friends sat together empty headed chick or encased from the noise of the something. Go on, leave me party in their own silence. Slowly alone.\ Sheila got up and sighed. \OK I'g1 going. But won't you \What's the use? I'll never be even tell me your name first?\ able to resolve what's bothering One of the mgst trying times for people here is the start of Winter semester, with the necessities of registration, class attendance, book purchases, etc. all within the first two or three days. Perhaps there is no practicable alternative to what is for many a chaotic beginning to the new term, but there are presently certain added inconveniences which could easily l?e ameliorated. For example, many who arrived at school Sunday found that their course programs were not in their mailboxes. Therefore they were faced with the ordeal of an early morning visit to the Registrar Monday. Unfortunately, many of those who obtained their programs also found that they were incorrect, necessitating an often fruitless search for advisors. As a result, many of those who took the trouble to arrive-,here relatively early were unable to attend Monday morning classes despite their efforts. · me, so what's the use? It's just an · .. Letter to the Editor · -· endless riddle. I might as well get drunk and forget it.\ Another major sore point, if that is the proper way to describe the basement of Nott Memorial, is our beloved bookstore. During the opening days of a semester, it is obvious that the bookstore is going to be very, very crowded; that is accepted without complaint. Yet it appears absolutely ridiculous that (at least as of midday Monday) there were only two cashiers employed to cope with the overflow students weighed down by their literary burdens (at higher prices than ever) often stood on line for more than 30 minutes, as three lines merged into two. Some may consider the tone of this piece to be unduly harsh. This is not intended as a search for scapegoats or villains, and there are no panaceas suggested. Rather than regarding the preceding as a personal attack, it would be :(ar more constructive for the administration to re-examine itself in order to promote a campus environment in which potentially serious annoyan.ces can be reduced. Above all, administrators should realize that the relatively quiet character of this institution does not necessarily denote satisfaction with the status-quo among its members. Peter Dickerman To the Editor: My congratulation tG some nameless 'person deep in the recesses of Lamont House who finally thwarted my attempt to keep my whereabouts hidden from the Office of Alumni Relations. For almost one-and-a- half years I successfully evaded the annoying, impersonal, deluge of mail which follows Union's alumni all over the world with more persistence than the famed Royal Canadian Mounted Police. I moved from Schenectady to Pittsburgh and then to Washington, D.C. while leaving my parents' home address in the college files and requesting that any mail from Union not be forwarded. My fatal mistake, I suppose, was to allow the announcement of my marriage to be printed in the Schenectady Gazette. Doubtless, some sharp-eyed reader of that ·famed journal noticed my new address and quickly up.dated his files on me. ~llllilllliiiiiiiiiiiiiiHIIIIIIIII!IIIIIIIIIIIIIllllllllllllllllllllllliiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiUIIIIIIIIIillllllllllllllillllllllllllllllllllllll,!lllllllllllllllllllllllliiiiHllllllllllllllll111111111111~ I 'For~:rkeB.G:~,~~ons I ~ Generations..' § ~ i 5 e = ThoM = = = :: Who Knew... § ~ ~~ ~ : tacommending ~ - - - HERSHEL MAURICE 8 WALTER E 44 3 Union Graduates in GraubiJrt Family\ ~ = = = 166 JAY ST. E! = 5 s FOR HONEST SERVI<;E AND GOOD )fWELR'Y § ~1111111111111111111111111111111 UIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIJIIIIIIIIIIIIIIJIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIU llllllllllllllllllllllllllllliiiiiiii!IIIIIIIIIIIIIU llllllllllllllllllfllllllllllllllll ~ Ah, ha! (he probably cried smuggly as he wrote down my new address) I caught him! His efforts were well rewarded. Today in the mail I received not one, not two, but three! pieces of (j.unk) mail from Union. The usual impersonal appeal for funds, tb.e latest Annual Fund report and a copy of the Chronicle bearing an announcement of my wedding. And now that my \cover\ is \blown\ I suppose the stream of mail shall never stop. By the way, the Gazette and the Chronicleboth erred 'in one detail. I have not got my M.P,A. · though I am working on it. Richard Patterson, Jr. '70 \That's the spirit. Hey Steve, get Sheila a drink, will you?\ Sheila rolled her eyes toward the ceiling, mocking her own submission. Come' on Steve, you lackey, where's my drink? FERRO Pharmacy FOUNTAIN Slavea One blodc from lrowtMII Gat• 575 NOti StrMt Scherieetady, N. Y. ,.. 7..0510 The music, movement and Union College photographers. gestures of traditional Indian There are interesting folk dance and the grace and ; phQtographs of historical items variety of Indian national dress l in the museum's collections, as will fill the Little Theatre of well as cleverly captured views of Russell Sage College,. Troy, on area landmarks. Thursday, January 6. The Priced at $2.95, it includes a presentation, beginning at 7:30 mailing envelope. It may also be p .. m., will feature students of • obtained gift-wrapped. Indian theatre and dance under * * * * the direction of Mrs. Joy There will be a dramaticallY· Michael, Froman Distinguished important meeting of all Monte- Visiting Professor of Indian banks this Thursday at 3:00 p.m. Theatre. Admission is free. in the theater to discuss plans for * * * * the wintef productions, changes The College Book Store and in the executive structure, high Library are two locations where and 1ow finance, and much more. the 1972 Photographic A good time is guaranteed for all Engagement Calendar may be - please come, we need you. purchased. * * * * Produced by the Schenectady There will be a ski patrol Museum Art Commi.ttee as a._ meeting on Thursday January 6, fund raising project, the calendar at 4:30p.m. in SS 115. contains the work of several Mlnn Co1 90, Dre The N.Y.C. the Kni Up the.· went 2~ suppo11 section Jersey, night team. I Garnet L 19i 1970

'·- Minner ••. Continued from Page 4 90, Drew-74. The following night it was N.Y.C. and Pace College :(where the Knicks occasionally practice). Up the: elevator and into the gym went 200 plus. rowdy Dutchmen supporters, ip.cluding a whole section from Spring Lake, New Jersey, a1\ pame(i Carmody. This night belonged to the whole team. It was close all the way, the Garnet unable to pull away from Do You Waitt To Be A Co,:~noisseur of Wine? Join the New Wine Ou:b At Moffett's Liquor Store THE PEANUT STORE Featuring PLANTERS HOT ROASTED PEANUTS and Nutnteats from aJI over the world. . 406 STATE ST. CONCORDIENS/S, Jan. 5, /972 Page3 Leapi:n Cont. ·Continued from Page 4 the bigge~t Longshot Loure at Hialeah wouldn't put a fin on their fate now, as reg-naD k~ciN would say. Right now, Walt Frazier is as good as Jerry West and is a candidate for the NBA's MVP. So is Wilt Chamberlain. But _ after Willis Reed stole it from West two years ago, the latter should get it solely as compepsation. . Not only that, but the Lakers, 2-3 without West, are 35-0 with him. How's that for valuable? West and teamma:te Gale Goodrich form the starting backcourt for the West All-Stars this year (Jan. 18). Wilt, of course, made the team as Kareem's back-up. Unfortunately, those three Lakers force the , exemption of Baylor in the starting lineup. An indication of predicted West domination of the stars of the East is the fact that Bob Lanier, if he makes it, will be third-string center. There's no question but that he'd start for the East. On December 12, I became Gary. Walters, strict disciplinarian, and Red Holzman, man of the magical, miracle comeback, in one fell swoop. At that time, I coached mY brother's team from a 2 I -16 third-quarter deficit to a thrilling 34-33 junior hoop win and I benched my brother for failing to hustle at both ends of the court. And so I leave you somewhat prematurely. It's not the inevitable departure but the \somewhat prematurely\ bit that hurts like hell. Goodbye to Harold C. Martin and to Edward J. (\ERK!\ he shrieked) Malloy. ~~-;,:,;:- =.;:::;:::;::::;;::;:::::;;;;::;;:;:;;:;;;==:... Jim McMillian from the squad. . . _ . . . LA's current win ske1n began Goodbye, cruel circus, I'm off to join the world. (across the field -on the corner of VanVranken Ave.) ' M C ,Af·DA T -G R E :~~~ce~the tteridede~~rt;~lu~~~~: [r.ft·~~=---=~~~~~~~~~~~~~ r~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~ LSAT- ATG.SB . ' ' i Special Introductory· -. # ; 2o~ 1 ;FF MYE~ NAT'L. BD.S. ~ \'\' Peter Pause ! ~ _ ~ * Pdrep_::Jr~tion tor tedsts r«Judiredffor ~ R. est au rant -~ :io~~~~~~o~~ra uate an pro es- ~ < * Six and twelve session courses \' Small groups ~ (' * Voluminous material for home study I · ~ prepared by experts in each field 535 Noll · St l * Lesson schedule can be tailored to . . . ; . . . . ' . ree ~ meet individual needs. ' \ Opportunity for review of past .S.. lessons via tape at the center O'><b>~~~~..q,~~~~~ TUTORS NEEDED· IN Summer Sessions Special Compact Courses Weekends - tntersessions STANLEY H. KAPLAN EDUCATIONAL CENTERLTD. 167S'Eost 16th Street Brooklvn, N. V ' i MATH & CHEMISTRY APPLY between 2 and 4 - ~212) 236.,-53.00 .FE:. ~. (516l538 ..... 4555 ~. -· AT DAYS, EVENINGS,-WEEKENDS SINCE 1938. Boston • Phila. • Washington • D~ttroi' • LosAOQeles • 'Miami TO A(QUAINT YOU WITH OUR NEW l'EENMAN SHOP (SIZES 36 TO 42) FAMOUS NATIONAL BRANDS •SPORTCOATS•SLACKS• • RAINCOATS • OUTERWEAR • VISIT OUR \DEBS DEN\ FOR UNION GIRI:S 313 STATE ST., AT ERIE BLVD. Open Thursday 'til 9 p.m. Nusbaum's t'fOut;fitters to Men and Young Men\ 441-451 STATE ST. SCHENECTADY ruTORING OFFICE, OLD CH:A:PEL·· :.- The TurorinjSCiw>olwilll rht>Nalionwide Reputatiinl 1'4-----.--------------------------\ .• .& - '1 OWAAO \\~\' DAVID HARRIMAN 1970 AWARD WINNER: H~NRV CARUSO 1971 AWARD WINNER• KEI<i GOLDNER 1970 AWARD WINNER: JULIAN BORKOWSKI 1----- .. -- .. ---- 1970 AWARD WINNER: ROGER TAZE DEMUTH iho Fl'eshes~ Boer in Townt . 1971 AWARD WINNER: JOHN WAGNER 5miJe from 2eerto2eer 1971 AWARD WINNER ROBERT CONGE 1971 AWARD WINNER BRUCE SAGE G.ENESEE~ BEER POSTER COMPETITI-ON FIRST • SECOND • THIRD • FOURTH PRIZE-S500 EACH RULES AND CONDITIONS 1. Competition is open to all persons 18 years of age. and over. No proof of purchas~ or other consideration is required; somewhere in the design the Genesee name or logo· type, or a Genesee package (Genesee Beer, Genesee Cream Ale or Fyfe & Drum Beer). and will be used in the sales promotion activities of the Genesee Brewing Co. Inc. Jim Ridlon, Associate Professor. School of Fine Art. Syracuse University; James Veatch, Fine Arts Major, State University College at Brockport. 2. Competition period, January 1 thtu:March 31, 1972. All-entries must be received bY March 31, 1972, 3, Winners will be reproduced in full color lit!'logra• phy. 2()!' x :28\. All entries must be 20\ x 28\ either horizontal or vertical .. 4. Each entry must show or depict, in some manner, ' 5. Entries will be judged on a basis of originality, art technique and suitability for reproduction, without limitation as to theme or content, subject to final ap- proval of State alcoholic beverage control agencies. 6, Each of four winners will receive $500.00. Winning entries become the property of Great Lakes Press 7, All entrants Will receive a set of the four winning posters.- 8. Each entry must be identified, in upper left hand comer of the reverse side with entrant's name, ad- dress, age, and home address to Which entry should be returned after March 31, 1972. 9. Judges will be Leo Kaplan, Artist, Rochester, N.Y.; ENTRIES SHOULD BE SENT TO: 10, Employees of the sponsor, members of their fam- ilies, and sponsor's advertising agency. are not eli- gible, State alcoholic beverage control regulations also prohibit participation by retail or wholesale li· censees and members of their families. 11. Competition is void where prohibited by State alcoholic beverage control regulations. GENESEE BEER POSTER COMPETITION c/o GREAT LAKES PRESS • 439 CENT~AL AVENUE • ROCHESTER, NEW YORK 14605

Page 4 CONCORDIENSIS, Jan.~' 1972 · · · f r. Fi' · ! (' ,, '' ,.'_J:~ ~\.l~4 ', ),!' Concordy Sports The Garnet on The Road Ruminations ' 'Monroe on the Knicks, 'Mody is .. ·\by LEA,PIN by Minner There's just a little bit of magic when you travel. To see some friends. To see a concert. To see a ball game. And half the fun is always just in getting there. So you pile four, five, rnaybe six or seven people into a car, make sure you are stocked up with beer, boone's farm, or anything to keep your spirits high, and take off. Someone always thinks he knows the way so be sure you don't listen to him and get some good directions or follow a map. Music is the media, so if you don't have a tape deck, the radio wiU have to do,especially if you can find a station that plays the Allman Brothers (CLF in Chicago?). The Williams game comes to sardine can they call a stadium, and with it our chance for the playoff. Blit our fans certainly equalled the Ephmen in spirit if not in size. Which brings us to this season. Having been to five straight road games to see the Dutchmen cagers, I woold have to say its a well drilled team, and an exciting one indeed to watch. And well supported. At the low point was Middlebury. We were flat, and Jimmy couldn't find anyone to take the scoring load when he was played, box-and-one. But, oh those two shots he threw in were something to behold, and Willy Carmody and Tommy Combs were still both hurt. Then it was down to· Madison, N.J. for the Drew game. The team had been on exam-recess break for about two weeks and a lowly Dre'Y opponent was the perfect matchup to get the team working as a unit again. Jimmy got back on the Scoring track with 29 points and Walker, Doyle, and Bacher had good floor games, as did Abba on defense. But the thing which most excited the one hundred plus Garnet throng was the varsity debut of Willy Carmody. ln fot .Abba, who would switch to the forecourt, Willy looked strong in his shooting and defensive game, but had the crowd on its feet with some exciting passes t0 Tedisco. Union Continued on Page 3 Having worked my way forced to enter a game cold and through the system, I was to be on-the-spot. Given the chance to your sports editor until I ran into start, Willie would become academic difficuli:ies not another Tedisco, the Frazier of unrelated to the hours I devoted Union who's an even better ball- to Concordy. There follews a few hawker than Chucky. of t:he ruminations I would have Geoff \the Rainmaker'' Walker employed in my coveted hut r,iyals . Jim Tedisco · as Gary vacated position: Walters' MVP. Watch for Mike My friend at , NYU spoke of Doyle to hurst out of his scoring Chuck Abba's lousy freshman slump. showing last year. He is an inept Last year, I offered two certain offensive ballplayer, though letter-writers 20-1 odds that the tough on \D.\ It is questionable LA Lakers would make the whether he should start instead playoffs. While they claim to be of the Scarecrow, Bill Carmody, tee-totalers on the gaming front, an adequate defender. Like Earl Continued on Page 3 LUIGI'S REST-AURANT . \ . mind as the best sports road trip . .~-------F-0-R--L-/_Q_U_·_O_R_& __ W:.._I_N_. -E-----:...... ........ ...., last year, though we lost in that SPECIALIZING IN ltaliani • American Food Wrestling Con't Continued from Page l early roun'd referee's decision, which many thought should have been reversed. Penn Sheldon (150) and Mike Moyer (142), an Albany Pharmacy frosh, also took third place spots, both pinning their men m the consolation matches. Looking for starting berths on the squad are frosh Larry Dagostino at 134 and Jeff White at 142, along with Freddy Lanes, also at 142 and the injured Bill Benedict and Tracy Rich at 150 and 167 respectively. The eleven returning lettermen plus the five strong fros h candidates make this a real solid team. The outlook'! Undefeated? ... Take another look at that schedule. Not only have tough Potsdam and Springfield heen added, hut the only team to heat the Garnet last year. St. Lawrence, will he faced the day alter the Potsdam match. And this weekend the Dutchmen· face three teams ih the span of 17 hours. while each of them only wrestle once! And all this after one week of practice since vacation. rhis Friday's match is against R.l.T. and goes off at 7 P.M. at night. while the triangular match against Williams and Harpur starts Saturday at 2 P.M. in Alumni Gym. ~~~---~~-...,..--\\\~y_ ~ Records! t ~ 8 Track Tapes! $ ~ Cassettes! ~ ~ Folk ~ ~ Blues ~ Rock $ ~ Jazz ] ~. Classics ~ ~ Sound Effects ~ Mood ~ ALLAT ~ ~ STUDENT DISCOUNTS MUSIC K.QR,NER. State & Broadway, o~. ~-·APEX LATHAM MUSIC BAR Latham Corners 377-1112 Try JAKE LIPSTEIN'S 464 State Street FR 4-1888 11}5 BARReTT ST. Enjoy Sizzling Ste?~ks and Chops Schenectady Dl 6-9744 Visit Our Cocktail Bar Introducing a new kind of beer. Maximus Super. Maximus\'Super is not an ale or a malt liquor. ~t it's very difFerent rrom ordinary beer. One can and you'll know just how d;frerent Maxim us Super really\ is. You'll dlso know how we arri'Ved at its name. ~ v s int we for str Tb Se thl co po ele pr' eu \P \is at1 in· sy: wl Rc Se 0 ha Stl ffil ne di: m. .. , to VC pr ac pt re W• th al SJ b! ar w th dl w th n C< di tr rn s; p: p tl

is to of be Founded at Union College 1877 Vol.10l, No. 20 SCHENECTADY~ NEW YORK JANUARY 11, 1972 Price Twenty Cents Selection of Courses Given By Consortium The Union College Coffee House presents Pat and Victoria Garvey, and Bob Field, this Friday nite at Old Chapel starting as usual at 8:30. Admission is 50ft and the free coffee and donuts are still being given away. Drag yourself away from the books(?) and come see. Sherman Plans Senate Reforms bySAM BRODY M~rty Sherman, '74, in an interview with Con~ordiensis last week, outlined a proposal calling for major revlSlons in the structure of the St4dent Senate. The resolution, devised by the Senate Vice-President, called for the immediate formation of a committee to study the problem. Sherman, who assumed his post of Vice-President in an · election last spring, said his proposal was prompted by the current lack of Senate power. \Power for the Senate,\ he said, ••is only equal to senator attendance and student body involvement.\ Under the current system, the student voice is heard wheri Senate President David Robbins ,r~ports the results of Senate -Meelings . ta the All- College Senate. this voice is hardly impressive when few students appear at the Senate meetings, and senator attendance never reaches 10 percent. . meets for the first time this week is scheduled to report its progress· to the Senate early next month. \If the committee were to decide the Sep.ate should_die,\ Sherman concluded, \we must accept that decision. From the sentiment among senators, however, I think there is a desire to go on.\ There will be published this term a foreign language newspaper of one or possibly two editions. Anyone may contribute an article or literary work, and the first edition wiil be printed as soon as there is enough material. French, German, and Spanish will each have one page, and a fourth page will be for Russian, Chinese, ·and any oUter languages. Even if your ability in a language is rather limited, please remember that we would like to print articles that can be read by people of similar ability. Besides, you don't have to sign your name. Turn in any material (translation includ.ed) to language professors, the foreign language secretary's office in the Humanities Building, or slide your artiCle under the door of 201 South. The Colleges of the lludson- Mohawk Association of Colleges and Universities are offering twenty-four special evening courses this year to further encourage cross-Fegistrati on among the colleges, Robert M. Briber, the association's director announced today. \These courses are in addition to regular daytime cross- registration,\ the director said, \and credit is available through normal procedures. They make cross-registration a little easier for the student because they do not conflict with his normal daytime schedule.\ Union students may cross-register at Russell Sage, R. P.l., St. Rose, Siena, Skidmore and Albany Law, Medical and Pharma- ceutical Schools. The Hudson-Mohawk Association, a consortium of nine private, area colleges is dedicated to cooperation between its members \to accomplish objectives beyond the reach of one institution.\ One of the first cooperative programs among the colleges was a program which encouraged student cross- registration. This agreement enables any qualified student, with the approval of his home institution, to take courses at anothet: campus at no additional cost beyond his normal tuition. The courses to be offered will be held from February 8 through May 9 and all but one is scheduled for a Tuesday evening. The College of Saint Rose is offering three courses: Trends in Pop Culture; Wind Ensemble; and American Foreign Policy. Four are being offered by Rensselaer Polytechnic Institute: Art of the Film; Literature and the Communication of Values; Musical Masterpieces: A Cultural Approach; and Engineering in it's Socia 1 Context. Russell Sage is offering five courses: Educational Psychology; La Francophonie; Ethics and Experience; Child Psychology; and Literature and the Fine Arts in the Weimar Republic. Two courses offered by Siena College are the History of East Asia and Reform and Revolution in Latin America. Skidmore College tops the list With 10 course offerings: American Architecture; Display; Folklore; Poetry Workshop; International Organizations; Sherman's plan, still open for discussion and alteration, would make the Senate gatherings ••T own Meetings\ of a sort, open to all students, with the equal vote, equal voice philosophy. The present Student Senators would act as a steering committee, thus preserving the present system of representation. \The new Senate would at least have every feature the Senate has now, but it would also have a lot more power,\ Sherman said. Another possibility explored by Sherman was the formation of an Agenda committee which would entertain proposals from the student body and make decisions as to which matters would actually be discussed by tlie Senate. PYE Changes Program; New Site Captains Needed In view of the imp<)rtant issues now facing the college community, including tenure, discipline and college finances, this is the ideal time ta seek a more effective Senate, Sherman said. \Direct student participation in the Senate process is a means of achieving this goal,\ he asserted. . ihe reform committee, whieh by TOM LUNDQUIST The Schenectady Protect Your Environment club (PYE) 1s restructuring its on-campus recycling program for the winter term. Paper recycling yvill be handled as follows: student site captains will be in charge of recycling stations in dorms and offices and every two weeks the bundled paper will be taken to the junk salvager in the Uni\on College dump truck. The site captains will be responsible .for placing the paper by the roadway to faciiitate the Friday afternoon pickups. Site captains are ·desperately needed to insure the successful continuation of recycling on Union's campus. If you would like to help, please attend this Thursday's PYE meeting, held in the basement of Silliman Hall at 7:30. PYE is directing its winter efforts toward environmen ta I education. Films, speakers and tours are being planned. In addition, the PYE library has recently been endowed with excellent literature depicting our environmental crisis . German H:istory Since 1814; The History of Ideas in France: The Culture of Latin America: Race Relations and Minority Groups: and Women Novelists. Inaugurated in the fall of 1969. the result of an agreement made by nine private Capital District colleges and universities which comprise the association, cross- registration permits enrolled students to take courses at any of the other institutions, giving students a greater flexibility and diversification in planning their educations. \In spite of the variations in schedules and the problems of commuting,\ Mr. Briber said. \more than 720 students have taken the opportunity to cross- register for over 900 courses since the program's inception. The total theoretical value of the tuition for these courses,\ he said, \exceeds $150,000 to date. \The student who enrolls at one of the majtir priYate colleges in the Capital District Area today benefits from the facilities of all nine,\ Briber added. \This means that hundreds of courses and teachers. multiple library facilities. and a wide variety of Dn-campus cultural and social activities are availahle to every student.\ Scheduled in the evening and ( ·ontmued on Pal.!e 2 Funds Approved For Winter Film Course by BARBARA McDONALD On Tuesday, January 4th, the Student Senate convened lor the first time this year. The main item of business v. as a decision on whether or not to support allocating funds to a proposed project course for the winter term. The plan called for the Senate to approve funding the project out of the student tax, which it did. Several student act.ivities have alre!ldy pledged fund~ including the Social Committee, Union Bovk. and the Tax Committee. in addition to the Public Relations office. The course will he taught h~ Robert Thurber, a graduate of Union and the New York University School of Film. He has agreed to come to Union unsalaried as an Artist in Residence if enough fund~ are raised for the project. The project is the complete production of a :H>-minute documentary film concerning the Schenectady Open Schoo I. The making of the film will expose students to the actual prohlcms and mechanics of filmmaking. Some· students will he taking it liS an independent study in art, but all interested students arc urged to participate. T-hroughout the production. professional standards will be maintained. The estimated cost of the project was $3645 which should be covered by the pledged funds from the activities and the student tax: The next Senate Meeting will he January I H, at 7:00 p.m. in Hu 115. . The final item was the Committee: foil owing report. made hy the Tax ACTIVITY Big Brothers & Big Sisters Black Student Alliance Bridge Club Cheerleaders Club Sports Bowling Hockey Rugby Sailing Skiing Coffee House Concert Ensembles Concordiensis Freshman Record Glee Club Idol International Relations Club lntervarsity Christian Fellowship Jazz Workshop Mountebanks Outing Club Photographic Society PYE Social Committee Student Course Evaluation · Student Senate Student Social Action' Comm. Union Book WRUC W2UC TOTAL Amt. Req. $ 990 11.705 100 350 3,473 34R 1,214 426 710 775 2,000 3,150 14,290 1,000 9,922 5,500 3,525 970 333 19,020 1,539 525 380 22,000 2,625 I, 165 l ,210 18,710 5,255 565 $120,302 Amt. Reed. $ 865 5,215 100 350 * 1,673 348 1,214 426 510 675 2,000 2,700 II ,440 1,000 7,927 5,450 3,075 415 333 7,365 900 480 280 20,000 2,625 I, 165 1,060 16,575 4,560 370 $ 98..923 •to be supplemented by Sl,SOO.OO from the athletic depart- ment.

Ptlge2 CONC:ORDIENSIS, Jan.Jl.l972 Editur-in-Otief Louis S. Snitkoff F~Editor Matthew Swartz Adiug Sports Editot Mark Mindel Photograplly Editor Dave Conrey News Editor Howard Stone As$1, Managing EditQI' Gail W. Goodman ~ontributing EditorS William Holleran Mike Meserole Peter Dickerman Managing Editor Doug Wong Business Manager Joseph P. Achenbaum National Advt. Manager Mark Shulman · Subscription Manager Michael Hurley Sl AFF: Jim Smith, Jim Rostenbei'g, Chris Mandeville, Frank DeLucia, Les Goldman, Rosemar:y Rice, Don K3plen, Rita Morandi, Barbara McDonald, Patty Sipe, Richard Kern, AI Reisch, .r~ Monkofski, George s. Baio, Jody S!lslow, Charles Long, Tim Cain. Published Tuesdays and Fridays dunng the sc!lool.year by the stUden. body of Union College, Schenectady, N.Y., National Advertising \Representative National Educational Advertising Service, Inc., College Publishers Representative, 360 Lexington Ave., N.Y.C. Editorial office, · Old Gym. Union College. Publication Office, The World Publications, 771 State Street, ~chenectady, N.Y. 12307, 346-2356. Ent~;:red in the Schenectady post office as Second Qass Mail Matter. Subscription 20 cents a copy.$8 a year delivered anywhere in the United States. Senate Reform. The Sherman proposal for Student Senate reform seems, at first glance, to be an effective follow-up to the Governance . Report issued a year ago. With the Senate being one campus governing body not changed by the Governance Report, it remained in need of some rehabilitation. The proposal put forth by Sherman, while it is probably not the total answer to increased student involvement, should effect a reasonable change in the balance of power. Its major weakness, however, is probably the agonizing history of student disinterest in campus politics. The image of an \open\ Student Senate meeting attended by only a handful of students is r~ally frightening, although it would probably not surprise many observers. The open Senate meetings seem particularly appealing in view of the basic inefficacy of the recent Senate polls conducted in each living unit. Perhaps their impotence is attributable to the overall problem pursued by Sherman - that the Student Senate is powerless. If the proposed agenda committee of the Senate were to be successful in weeding out the unimportant issues, and students were able to engage in active debate over issues concerning all. of us, the Senate could ideally serve as a reliable index of student opinion. · A defeat for the Sherman proposal would represent a severe blow to the successful implementation of the Governance report this year, as well as a setback for student government in generaL If it is adopted, and if it is met by enthusiastic student response, it cart he significant in its consequences. The administration has argued in the past to limit student power because the students represent a transient campus body. But there is no better argument against student power in campus government than a failure for students to capitalize on an opportunity to assert the powers they have. SPECIAL SALE CLOSING OUT MANY ITEMS IN OUR STUDENT. YOUNG MEN'S DEPT. Sites 36 to 42 1J3 OFF ENTIRE STOCK SUITS e SPORT COATS SLACKS (Waists 33-34-36) Includes New Double Knits and Corduroys ' . OUTERWEAR JACKETS e COATS Famous Brands - L.S.S. ~J 313 STATE ST., AT ERIE-BLVD. OPEN THURSDAY TIL 9 P.M. FREE PARKING PLAZA BEHIND STORE Nusbaum's \Outfi;tters to Men andY oung ~en\· . 447-451 STAT£ ST. SCH.EN.ECTADY Precipitation : six to t~n by MATTHEW SWARTZ \'Someone · or other.' Oh Sheila, you must be kidding. That •someone or other' is the captain of the football team, Tom Terrific.\ \That's right,. that's what he said his name was .. .J thought he was kidding.\ \Well he was, sotta.\ \Yeah I knew it. Tom Terrific must be the .name of his favorite cartoon character.\ \Oh no. What I meant was his real name is Terrence but as he began to see his ·name in print more and more often, he began to think that Terry Terrific sounded too poetic, .so now he insists on Tom instead.\ -\'Shei~ felt her eyeballs roil toward the. back of bet head but caught them just as they flickered past the eyelids. \So what did you say?\ \I said I wasn't sure.\ \Oh God, Sheila. Not sure. babe on the phone wants to speak with him.\ Sheila hear9 the relay!! of the message f;uJe majestically into the big; Victorian fraternity house she had seen .pictures ·of in this yeafs pig book. Resounding back came, \He 1 s not in.\ \Sure he is. I just passed his room and heard the mattress springs squeaking. Give him a chance to finish and knock again,\ reverberated off Sheila's left tympanum. Seconds later, the othet end of ·the line clickc;d and, \Right on, · Tom Terrific speaking: 1 Sheila could picture him leaning. against the oak panelled wall in his ·~tay ... press levi jeans ~m;l Sa~s Fifth A V;iinue perma...:ptes~ :wod(: shirt. \tom this is Sheila.\ \Sheila? Sheila who?\ -\Strife Sheila Strife.\ \Oh yeah, the chick that's doing the Winter FestiYal thing with me.\ \That's why rm calling. I can't g1> to the Winter Festival.\ . ~eart't go? You mean World War III's been declared?'' .. No, worse. My mother just gave birth to quintuplets and I hav~ to go home that weekend to take care of the house for my father.\ The only reply she heard was the ~l~ssic sq:ueaking of~the stairs . as heayyJeet took them by~two's. · As she ·rchung the . phone, Sheila caS.uaily picked up the new T.V. Guide, flipped to the Friday Iis~ings and underlined, \My_ Three Sons; Ernie catches. his adopted f~ther, Steve {Fred McMurray), pinc.hing · his adopted brother's · new:ty.wed wife, Tammy, last y~ls Cott;on Bowl Woolite girl, and is caught defiantly smuggling tile left over chickenlivers to j)ed that night. Why he can park his Converse All-Stars under my .,. Good Holy Mother Maria, you were ·asked out by the captain of the football team for the Winter Festival. Traditionally that means you're the leading 1 contender for this year's Winter Festival Snow Queen.\ ' . .. . · Letter to the .Editor - · ' ... .... ' . . \Snow Queen! You mean the hitch that dresses up in a pink body stocking with a varsity 'V' on the seat and skates the first puck of the home hockey season to the coach standing at mid-ice, holding a hockey stick· between his legs and signing autographs for every child under sixteen that was accompanied to the game by a parent or reasonable facsimile?'' \Isn't it beautiful?\ \Sandra it's disgusting. I don't even know how to skate.\ \Then you get to slide out on a giant dry ice puck, decked in roses and lillies of the valley, rnade by the president of the aerodynamics society, who's serving this term as the chairman of the President's Sub- Committee to investigate friction on a smooth, solid, stable material like ice.\ Sheila swooned. \I'll have to think. Give me time to think.\ . • Well, sure enough the next few days skipped by like a jackrabbit that just had his first taste of catnip, only not quite that smoothly because jackrabbits are notoriously myopic when under the influence of .. .. but that's a topic for our nature column. At any rate, the big decision l~~cy heavily on our friend's powerful shoulders. She had to speak to Tom. After all, hadn't it been four weeks since he had asked her? For that matter, when had she spoken to him last? \Hello? I'd like to speak to Tom Terrific.\ Her voice lacked the confidence she had hoped, nay prayed, for. \Hey ·tell the _big i there's a Consortium ... Continued from Page I limited to a three class-hour session each week, · the Consortium Night courses are intended to make scheduling and commuting problems as simple as possible, Briber said. Open Letter To The Student Body, .Administra-tion, Concerned Citizens, an4 the Editor: · There is a time for love. a . time for war, time to study and time to snore; a time to make peace, a time to break .peace;. a time to stake the breakers of the peace. A dam can only hold .so ·much water before it breaks. There was a great deal of tension last winter through. spring, over our take over of the Computer Center; that was stimulus. A lot of you, my friends, showed your true feelfugs~ Your student apathy faded· and evolved into a variation in shade of response. You wondered \what was happening, what was happnin?!\ Many were disturbed over our course of action. It is all a vicious circle; we only responded to a certain stimulus given us by the Administration. · Stimulus, Response. I cannot over emphasize that fact. r don't want anyone out there in radio land to think I am speaking for, or with the consent of all of my people. I've seen it time and time again where someone writes in and the next week r.eaders attack the previous . l . 1 wnters arttc es on. over- generalized principles. Stimulus, Response. The letter is an impulsive gesture on my part the previous is to say this: the student body, I feel, was totaOy uneducated to our wants, and totaUy misinformed and, as a ·result, totaUy shocked. I've learned from this experience. This is a declaration of information, of education, on a set of stimuli. I must stress again that this is from me to you. From an individual to you. I have written this in response to stimulus received the . night of .Cross-registration, for daytime courses as well as the Consortium Night schedule, is being handled thro:ugh the Registrar's office of the associated institutions and students are encouraged to seek further information from that office of their home institution. o.La TUTORS NEEDED IN .. : MATH & CHEMISTRY : APPLY between 2 and 4 AT TUTORING OFFICE, OLD CHAPEL January 6, 1972 in parti~Ular~ ·I . have written this in· hO:Pes 'drat it will be published uLike.:it is.\ On the night of .fanuary 6; 1972 sornewner-e between lO and ll o'clock, the exact time escapes m<:, there. was a continuous disturbance (noise) coming abave from the third floor (North) in Davidson. To be a little 'more specific, a group of white guys were having fun playing \put out the fire\ with waste paper baskets of water and fire extinguishers. Now, I dig fun too! And I .realize that in this tense academic atmosphere there must be time for play. However, this was at night while I was studying. So I waited for a while (2 .. 3 ~inutes) for this loud rucki,ts to ~ease. lt didn't. I was angry~ Stimulus. 1 was moved to investigate and with a little help from my friends convinced them to calm down. Response. Within the same hour the sequence of events was re- enacted. Several months previously the following stimlllus occurred. (I repeat .I am writing this on impulse.) We started a \Black Bulletin Board on the 2nd floor Davidson (our side). I remember it being up during a party given by the white side of the 2nd floor here and a majority of the student body attending by chance might .h~v.e: :S~en. :ij:. st;m. ... us. In my opiniOn: · the- material· was good and an:nia~k&·who saw~. it.' enjoyed its pier.c,ing: pUmgr. ~ai1d.:; enlightenment~ · · :SQfu:eone, .an , unknown, in the\ ·iniddle of the night ripped this Work of art to shreds. Response-Stimulus. Sti11tulus is collective, like water in that dam;. it keeps building up, to burst unexpectedly. I hope I've done what little bit I cart to educate and inform. If anyone wishes to respond· they may do so by writing their name and address in space P,rovided on the door of room 224 Davidsofi and I will make arrangements to see you personally. · A Cont:em~ Black IndiVidual, Name Witblteld by Request This Sunday night, January l(i, Unicm College Hillel will h4)ld a · Coffeehouse in Hale lfouse Student Loungt! at 7:30 p.m. Donuts, eider and entertainment Will be free for · an . 01 y( m th a ~ fo Jil Pc be co co Al ar, an ge as pa Cl ot Ta At ex m• cr; fc.J t-11 u. so C< l)e1 Ell fac fig tlu of be1 be1 be1 aft no· we w Ar Pa am gre ch€ anc die Pte ree upj line lea an< Ph: to see tall aile OUI big be1 Pa Pa Isr: ca. ho1 Me U,! in He to gat ] vet rna pol me der effc we1

I y s s ' Cooper Saloages '71 ·by MIKE MESEROLE . by the unthinking left to \close actor, George C. Scott. Nineteen~seventy-one was not one of the gteat years. What can you say for a span of twe~ve months that began by shockmg the Richter $cale in So11thern calif'Qrnia with a bonafide ~arthquake and closed amidst the, foul odor of a pl)ljtical deal with Jimmy. Hoffa's parole from a Pennsylvania penitenti;m'? You betcha, the superlatives don't come~sy. In many . ways, . you. have t(,) consider 1971 as. a necess11.ry evil. An ~arU1qualce has been due around Los Angeles for years, and what the hell, Hoffa had to get off sometime,. right? It might as well have been last year~ Look at what happened in the past ye11.r~ the world and Red China finally recognized each other (and un-recognized Taiwan) after only twenty years; Attica prison eJ:upte.d and exposed one· . of the . country's most neglected social sores; · the crack South Vietnamese armed fc.rces gave Vietnarnization a black eye~ invading Laos under U.S. air , support and getting. soundly, · tnninced by the Co.w,ptun,ists; homosexuality be~m~ ·!lP .~in'• hang-up; Daniel Ellsberg gave· l!S \top secret\ facts to prove what we already figured. about Vietnam, LBJ, and the art .of lying in lofty po11itions of re$,ponsibility; Mayor Lindsay became a Democrat; Jesus Christ became funky; and ioe Colombo became shot in the bead not .long after saying that The Mafia did not exist. It was a pretty pairrl'ul 52 weeks. We lost Ralp!l Bunche,' Whitney Young, Louis Arttlstrong, Nikita Khrushchev, Palisades · Park, boxing ring announcer Johnny Addie, golfing great Bobby Jones, toothpick ... chewing pitcher Sad Sam Jones, and 1 ,400 more Americans who died hi Vietnam fighting for, ah, President Thieu's right to run for reelection unopposed. An economic freeze descepded upon the country, holding the line on wages for 90 days, and leaving us with a devalued dollar and the brilliantly .conceived Phase Two, which no one seems to understand but everybody seems to dislike. The SALT talks continued between the U.S. and Russia, and t<> demonstrate our sincerity we set off our biggest underground blast ever beneath Amchitka Island. West Pakistanis ·butchered Ea'st Pakistanis, Arabs · threatened Israelis, and in Northern Ireland, · Catholics and Protestants threw homemade bombs at ~ach other. Meanwhile, at the Hanoi Hilton, U.S. prisoners of war remained in captivity waiting . for their Head Coach in the White House to pUnt and take them out of the game. Back home, 1.~00 Vietnam vets, led by John Kerry, markedly impressed Washington politicians by turning in their medals in a moving April demonstration, only to have their efforts greatly undermined two weeks later to a recl<less attempt down\ the government in a But in the final analysis, t_he r~tJ,ning skirmish with the D;C. 1971 Man of the Year could have police ..:... a farce that turned into • been only one person, A man a three day cattle drive, wbp captured the imagination of In the My La:i massacre case, a nation that ached to embrace a everybody ·got off ex;cept Lt, · non-political hero. An in,djvidual Calley, wii~l had to settle for a hit of incredible nerve and precise. d b hi If A d execution, who took a common, recor · a out mse . . n finally, the last straw in a stinker every week occurrence and of a · year; Mr. and Mrs. Nick transformed it into a work of art. DeMartino were ordered by a A daredevil of the first order, New York state court to return who took on the Big Boys, beat their adopted baby dau~ter them soQndly, and still gained their grudging respect. The 1971 Man of the Year Award goes to D.B. Cooper, who hijacked a Northwest Airlines 727 over Oregon the day . before Thanksgiving, politely extorted MAN Ol:r 'I'Ht; YEAk D. B. COOPER (photo courtesy of the F.B.I.) Lenore to her naturar mother, who all of a sudden wanted the child back. But, hold the phone for a ~~~;~~w:~~ th:ny air!f:n a~~ capture by parachuting out of the plane at night. · When Turkey Day dawned, Cooper was nowhere to be found. ·\We're either looking for a parachute or a hole in the ground;\ said the search party chief in the Oregon woods outside Portland. They found neither, hunting in vain until a few days later when Northwest received a thank you note from Cooper (ppstmarked from Seattle, Washington) which explained that he only had four years to live and he wanted to exit in style. second, surely it .couldn't have The Albany Symphony will been all that bad. There must\ present an old fashioned Pops have been some bright spots, Concert Saturday, January 22, at and, thankfully, there were a few. 8:30 p.m. at the Palace Theatre. Nick and Jean DeMartino, for Julius Hegyi will . conduct the instance, told New York what it Symphony. could do with the fickle real The Barbershop Chorus will mother and fie~ to Fl~rid~ whe!e join . the Symphony for this the courts upheld therr rtght .to concert in a medley of so-ngs. The keep Lenore. Ex-B~tle George. Barbershop Quartet will sing Harrison assembl~d. a~ awesome without accompaniment. collection of rock superstars, The· program will include packed Madison Square uarc:len Skaters Waltz, Poet and Peasant, for two shows in August and Overture, Babes in Toyland, The arranged for all the li:ve gate, Mikado, The Student Prince, record album, and movie profits Londonderry Air, and The to be sent to starving Bangia Carnival of Venice. The Trumpet Desh. Dashing Canadian leader Solo in The Carnival of Venice Pierre Trudeau married beautiful will be played by James Morris. Matgtu\et Sinclair in March and Tickets for the January 22 _ had a son by Christmas. And concert may be obtained by U.S. Ambassador to India, sending a stamped self-addressed Kenneth Keating, was valiant in envelope to the Albany his efforts, though unsuccessful, Symphony Orchestra, D & H to reverse Hency Kissinger's Building, Room 26, Albany, advice to President Nixon to N.Y. 12207, or by calling 465- back Pakistan against India, 4755. Student ticket prices are Every yem-, however, has one $1.50. outstanding ,individual who. * * * * distinguishes himself above aU The Glee Club is presently the rest to become the Man or holding mid-year auditions. For Woman of the Year. This column those interested in joining, please ·started honoring premier contact Prof. Wilson (Old) performers of the year four Physics- 2nd floor. years ago when South Mrican * * * * Lewis Washk;ansky wa·s On Monday January 17 at 4:30 attribJited the award for 1967, for in Room SS 115 the Sociology being the first human to receive a and Political Science heart transplant (and a woman's Departments are sponsoring a ticker at that). Since then, ex- talk by Dr. Dennis H. Wrong, Czech premier Alexandre Professor of Sociology at New Dubcek (1968), Chappaquiddick York University on Class; police drief Dominick Arena Politics, and Ethnicity Among (1969), and New York newcast~r American Workers Today. Roger Grimsby and his· Professor Wrong is a Eyewitness newsteam (1970) have nationally known political won the annual citation. . sociologist who has specialized in For the first time in fiv~ years the study of' power and political a woman made a strong bid this behavior in America. In his past year for Top Man honors, paper he will summarize various as Indira Gandhi showed that the sociological and political sex of a nation's leader has persprrctives on the subject of nothing to do with going to war working class political behavior - and winning. Following the and also examine the \alleged lady Prime Minister in current resurgence of ethnicity\ consideration, were China's among Working_ class voters. dynamic Premier, Chou En-lai; * * • * New York City police corruption Production crews are now investigation head, Whitman being set up for th\'e Knapp; imprisoned Bangia Desb Mountebanks 1 historic first leader Sheik Mujibur Rahman; musical, PEACE. Carpenters, the gang that .started the whole painters, costumers, ushers, new China thing, Glenn COwen tic;ket-sellers, el~ctricians, and the U.S. ping pong team; the mountain-climbers and hookers Treasury Department's Sheriff, are ALL needed. (Jive Peate A John Connally; and Oscar-shy CONCORD!~NSIS, Jan. 11,1972 PDR\L • Slight Vietnamization Setback in La~s. in a }'ear marred by continuing war abroad, inflation and unemployment at home, a rising drug problem, escalating crime rates, and charges of widespread police corruption in our biggest city, it seemed as though every time we looked up we got the business from the so-called system. Then, from our ranks stepped the Man of the Year, a combination of Robin Hood, Willie Sutton, and Dr .. Richard Kimble, an individual of incalculable bravura, a rogue and a rascal (alright, a thief, too, if you want to get picky), who hatched an ingenious plan (figure ' that a 727 is the only commercial jet suitable for paracl].uting) and hit the fat cats for 200 grand, an accomplishment that even the airline .people had to admire. We seem to be running out of frontiers in this country; the Chance, not to mention a helping hand. Sign up now on the bulletin board of the Nott Memorial Green Room. * * * * To whom it may concern; whoever told ine a fallacy, (Ho, ho), I am now wise. Revenge. \May you be fruitful and multiply.\- Genesis * * * * A special qualifying session for the B.ridge Na tiona! Intercollegiate Pairs will be held on January 25 at 7:45 in the Hale House Faculty Lounge. All those interested are welcome. There will be a one dollar entrance fee for the national tournament. * * * * The next session of the Student~Faculty Bridge Club will be held on January 18 in the Hale House Faculty Lounge at 7:45 P.M. All those interested in participating are welcome. The results of the last tournament held on November 30 were: 1. Bob Lavin- Paul Chamsky 2. Casson - Shapiro 3. Mike Levinson- Bob Feller * * * * The Schenectady P.Y.E. Club will meet this Thursday night, Jan. I 3, at 7:30 p.m. in the P. Y.E. Office, located in the basement of Silliman Hall. All members and any interested non- members are urged to attend, as plans for the coming semester will be discussed. * * * * Applications are now available in the Student Activities Office for three positions on the newly- formed Standing Committee on Financial Aid. Completed applications will be due on January 18, 1972. * * * * There will be a meeting of the American Recorder Society in Old Chapel Wednesday, Jan. 12 at 8 P.M. Please bring all recorders. * * * * IRC ~ There will be a short Mississippi has been crossed, the West won, and the Moon walked on and driven over. We are left looking for new areas in wltich to exhibit our American heritage of daring and ingenuity. We tried to work our USA magic in Southeast Asia and it failed. and continues to fail to the point where we hurt ourselves every ·day that we overstay our visit there. Daring and ingenuity are nothing if not accompanied by a certain amount of class - and class is knowing when it's time to leave and go home. Class is also sending a thank you note after you've just touched an airline for a few hundred thousand. B.D. Cooper, wherever you are, you·re a great American and a real year-saver. I just hope they never catch you. meeting of the International Relations. Club, Thursday; .Jan. · 13, at 3:30 P.M. in SS 113, to discuss plans for the coming term. All are welcome to attend. * * * * Do you know all about Planned Parenthood of Schenectady? If not, contact Steven Ente, 346-9369, or Joe Monkofsky, 346-9730. * * * * The Modern Dance Workshop is sponsoring a trip to New Yor:k on Saturday, January 22, to see the evening performance of the Alvin Nikolais-Murray Louis modern dance companies. Round-trip bus fare is $9.00; depart11re is 7:00 A.M.; return to campus is about I:30 A.M. Performance tickets are $I .50. Anyone wishing to take 11dvantage of the charter bus price and/ or attend the dance program sign-up in the Old Chapel, Modern Dance Bulletin Board by Friday, January 14. \' * * * On Tuesday, January I8. the Hispanic Society will present Morton Spillenger speaking on Puerto Rico, in the Hale House Student Lounge at 8 p.m. All Spanish students are invited to attend. * * * * There will be a coffeehouse at Phi Sigma Kappa Saturday nite 1 January 15, featuring Bob Bernhardt, right after the basketball game. Admission is 25¢ FERRO Pharmacy FOUNtAIN SlltVICE :hie blodc froiR lrownell Gale 575NottSt...t Schenectady, N. Y. a·7..0510 FOR LIQUOR & WINE try JAKE LIPSTEIN'S 464 State Street FR4-l888

Page 4 CONCORDIENSIS, Jan. I 1, 1972 Concordy Sports . RIT, Harpur Top Disappointing Matmen by MINNER What can you say about a· team that lost only one match in I 5 last year, that is complete with II returning lettermen and 4 tough frosh, but has just one victory in its first three dual matches? Not much. At least not· much that is positive or worth printing. You can only ask questions. For openers, WHAT IS WRONG? Gerry Everling is back as head coach with an excellent assistant in Bruce Wheeler, so that can not be the problem. Sure, the schedule of 3 quick duals after oae week of practice hurt, but a good team should overcome that. But as Friday night's opening loss turned into a Satur,day afternoon defeat, it was a very dwindled and depleted Garnet rooting section that witnessed the 40-8 victory over Williams which followed. The winter sports battle £or the spectator last year was wild, perhaps a draw, though it did not really matter. The cagers set attendance records with their amazing 18-3 mark, but the throng which followed the · matmen made up in noise and excitement for what they lacked in size. And who would not go crazy watching those hairy victories that the two light-weights, Calabro and Zullo, and the three heavies, Wardell, Morris, and Benedict, pulled out in the Alumni arena? It was compared to the watching of the feeding of Christians to the lions in the Roman Colosseum. But who is excited now? Many true grappling fans, along with most everyone else, walked out of Alumni Gym at 3: 15 Saturday afternoon to watch what they all . knew would be an easy Garnet hoop victory in the Fieldhouse. And it's a long walk when it's cold oUtside. I do not thin~ that too many were reaUy concerned whether the game would end in time for them to return to the gym for the Williams' match. · disappointment. But oh that courageous Pat Wardell. Still hurt, he took the mat against Harpur with the team trailing 18- 9, and Morris on deck facing a tough match {which he lost). We needed a pin. Leading 5-2, with about a minute remaining, he flapjacked his opponent, and had him 'almost' pinned for the remainder of the match. Many thought the Harpur man was indeed 'wired'. The referee agreed, but a scant second after the buzzer sounded. Harpur-21, Union-18. Hoopsters Blast Queens 93-46 In· Scoring Spree Just one little point and one mere second, .and yes a new ru'le, but a good one, affected this sudden apathy. On Friday, save for the outcome, it was the typical Union wrestling method. Win the first two matches, lose the next five, and win the last three, with a couple of pins. Put the pressure on the heavyweights and they will respond. Only this time the middleweights asked too much. Because this year it is 6 points for a pin, not 5, 4 points for a decision by 10 or more points (the new rule), and the same 3 points for any other decision. We beat Williams. Big deal, we had already slaughtered them Wheh we won the Albany Tourney. Again, hats off to a fighting l>l:J.t Wardell, who took the mat with pain written on his face, and decisioned his man, come-from-behind style. That took guts. If he had not lost a Feferee's decision in the opening round of the Tourney he would now be unbeaten. The crowd was entertained by Benedict's 18-2 victory over the Williams' heavy. But they were not entertained nearly enough by the team. by RILL HOLLERAN Following their lopsided 93-46 los:; to Union':; basketball team on Saturday, Queens University of Kingston, Ontario somehow sports a 3-4 won-loss mark. It is a record which attests more to the dismal 4uality of Canadian collegiate basketball than anything else. In their last two games against American competitiOn, the Gaels have averaged but 51 points on offense whi.le being outscored hy a total of 91 points. The Garnet used a devastating full court press at the outset of Saturday's game. and rolled into a 25-12 lead after only ten minutes of play. Mike Doyle netted eight of his game-total 15 points during that span to lead the Dutchmen away from their overmatched foes. While the Fieldhouse crowd of 2,000 was at times in stitches at the impromptu ballhandling antics of the Gaels, who committed 40 turnovers in the contest. the Garnet were methodically moving well beyond hailing distance. Leading 31-20 midway through the first half, the Dutchmen reeled off II straight points to put the contest even further out of reach. Actually. our Canadian friends weren't bad shooters, connecting on 13 of 24 attempts from the noor m the first half for a creditable 54 percent. Union hit on 23 of 45, a 49 percent output. Queens' problem was that they could neither handle the ball nor play defense. Moving in underneath the hoop almost at will, the Garnet outscored the Gaels 28-8 in the first 12 minutes of the second stanza to intensify the holocaust. With his team leading 85-35, and with many fans wondering if the Garnet would reach the 100- point mark before Queens made 50, a merciful Coach Gary Walters emptied his bench to avoid a tota:I embarrassment of his Canadian foe . .Twelve Union players ended up in the scoring column. ' Jim Tedisco led the Garnet with a game-high 22 points, and frequently left his defenders watching in awe as he twisted, turned, and spun his way in for some spectacular buckets. Center Tom Bacher added 13 points, while substitute Tom Combs tossed in 10 in a fine-shooting performance. The Dutchmen continue their homestand this week with contests against Utica College on Wednesday and Kings Point on Saturday. The Pioneers. tomorrow's foe, are not to be confused with the hapless Utica five which the Garnet routed a WINTER CLEARANCE 20% to 50% OFF ALMOST ALL WINTER MERCHANDISE ~quirt ~lfnp 420 State St. - OPEN tUESDAY & THURSDA V Tl~ 9 Master Charge-Bank Americard year ago in Utica. The Pioneers upended Hartwick 78-77 over the weekend and demolished Queens (who else?) 103-56 on Friday. Bruce Freeman, at 134, lost to the very talented Ken Perse from R.I.T. 16-6, while Wardell, with an injured and extremely painful pinched nerve in his shoulder, barely missed the BIG victory, posting a 12-3 win. And that was that. They got the break, we did not. Following the Kings Point contest on Saturday, the Dutchmen take to the road f-or games against R PI and Wesleyan. Union will return home at the end of this month for a two-game homestand, hosting Norwich on January 26 and Williams on the 29th. Saturday was just more The grapplers travelled to the North Country today, for tough matches against Potsdam tonight and St. Lawrence tomorrow. I think some wrestling fans up there will be very entertained. THE UNITED NATIONS EDUCATIONAL, SCIENTIFIC AND CULTURAL ORGANIZATION a specialized agency of the Uni~ed Nations dedicated to peace $6 value $1.50 value $ 5value all for· only $ 6 ~ and THE STUDENT AID SOCIETY · a non-profit non-political organization dedicated to helping students to help themselves offer STUDY ABROAD • New 19th Edition • Each copy is trilingual in English, French and Spanish • Paris, France, 1972 • 644 Pages The most complete scholarship directory in the world lists more than 234,000 scholarships, fellowships, loans and grants in more than 129 countries or territories!. Tells who is eligible, fields of study, financial assistance, HOW. WHEN AND WHERE TO APPLY! Reflects the latest scholarship approach costed by financial need! VACATION STUDY ABROAD • Each copy is trilingual in English, French and Spanish More and more Americans are flocking overseas for summer vacations, and an increasing proportion is young Americans! With the price war now raging on overseas airfares, recq_rcj-breaking numbers of young Americans will surge across Europe this summer! VACATION STUDY ABROAD tells how qualified people will go free! Provides information on short courses,. seminars, summer schools, scholarships and travel grants available each year to students, teachers and other young people and adults planning to undertake study or tra.ining abroad during. their vacations. These data were provided by some 500 organizations in 54 countries! STUDENT AID SOCIETY membership dues. Services offered: • Scholarship information service. Answers questions concerning scholarships worldwide! • Travel service. · Plans interesting tours to exotic lands! • Reference Service. Drafts term papers, essays, book reports, theses, etc. frequently usi,ng primary sources <lVailabl~ only _in. the Library of Congress! We do not actually wnte the ftmshed assignment since that would deprive the student of valuable educational experience and defeat the very purpose for \Your reference service saved me much valuable time which I put in on other subjects. Result: 5 As and 1 B.\ writing for oneself in th.e first place. We will provide background information and bibliographies which rank with such tools as the College Outline Series and encyclo- paedia reference services available only with expensive sets. Limit of one draft at small additional charge, per semester per student .in gpod standing. We cann..:t answer any question which we feel requires the advice of a doctor, la\IVyer, architect, en·gineer, or other I icensed practitioner, nor can we advise concerning your financial investments. Neither tan we undertake rnarket research or surveys or provide home study courses. CN, Ann Arbor, Mich \The Vantage Point\ is a book put together by 5 ghost writers and edited by LBJ. Yourteference service is almost like my own persona/ghost writer.\ LC, Gainesville, Fla. \The 3 reference books of which every studem needs personal copies are Study Abroad, a gaod diCtionary and thesaurus. I got a $10,000 4-year ~ho/arship from Study Abroad.\ AR, Berkeley, Calif. .------------------------ 1 . . I Student Aid Society, PO Box 39042 . 1 I Friendship Station, Washington, D.C. 20016l I Gentlemen: I enclose $6 for Study Abroad, l l Vacation Study Abroad and annual dues. 1 1 Name : l Address 1 I City, State . . . . Zip : ·~----~--------~---------

... Founded' at Union College 1877 Vol. 101, No. 21 SCliENE'CTADY, NEW )'ORK JANUARY 14,1972 Price Twenty Cents Kennedy Point Is lnuoluement . By REID RUSSELL This past Tuesday night, before a full house in Old Chapel, Florynce Kennedy entertained. Author of Abortion Rap and a noted proponent of various liberal causes, Ms. Kennedy displayed · a loud, coarse manner which kept her audience amused if it did not contribute substantially to their enlightenment. In fact, her natural flamboyance~ as well as her tendency to ramble, ·may have distracted the audience from the gist of her remarks. Ms. Kennedy's message was primarily one of involvement, to break out of our \oatmealed and mildewed\ lives, to have \fun.'~ She complained of \institutionalized oppression,\ citing the media as a prime perpetrator of such, and condemned those people aware of it who try to rationalize their not doing anything about it. for the proposed Bellevue low- income housing program and recommended that students devote themselves to keeping those who voted against the bill from ever seeing the light of elective · office again. Upon leafing through the \Gazette\ and spotting an article on Roy Wilkins, she termed the paper \racist\. The best way to fight such organizations, she informed the audience, was to picket, or in some other way disrupt the activities of, the organization's largest advertiser. Before concluding, Ms. Kennedy was gracious enough to give us her itinerary for the rest of the year. She will be leaving for Europe-··soon, where she will visit London, Paris, and Rome (\We're gonna picket the Vatican\). Most of the rest of her time will be spent working towards Shirley Chisholm's nomination as the Democratic candidate for President of the U. S .. Ms. Kennedy concluded her speech by reiterating her main point, already cited, that \you've got to wake people up.\ Commentary The Tenure Issue: An Overview Of The Rules /- by PETER BICKER MAN tenure ceilings as high as 65 academic stahilit}. However. Ed. note: This is the firs! in a percent, but the overall le\el is this is not the case, for an series of articles concetninx 1lw . fixed. Mr. Bingham stated that unusually large number Df current tenure situalion ar this action was consistent with faculty are facing tenure Union, a problem which. ll hile well-established Trustee desires, evaluation within the next three onf.r o.lfndirect inreresr w mow originally expressed to President years. If this limitation students. is like(r to hal'e grear Martin upon his arrival here in continues, perhaps as many as ''impact upon the future cour.1e 1965. There are two major 50 professors will have of the College. Today's piece arguments, as mentioned b) absolutely no possibility of consists o.f linle more than m1 Bingham, in support of tenure • obtaining tenure, regardless of explanation ol the issue; i11 limitations. Initia'lly, there is the their capabilities. future insta!ln;ents rhe dilemma .. new blood\ theory, the belief All segments of the College faced by untenured famlty here that a continual rotation of community seem to agree that will be examined in more detail, young, untenured faculty is tenure is a problem of the based on conversatiom with b~neficial to the intellectual highest magnitude, as it causes some o.f those direct~r a,(li'ctf!d. atmosphere of the College, and (in Professor Theodore Bick's .As explained by Assistant to additionally provides the words) a \terribly demoralizing'\ the President R. Gordon administration with greater situation for junior faculty. Last Bingham, Union operates under flexibility to meet shifting semester. in response to the tenure guidelines formulated h} student demand. Second!). problem, President Martin the AA U p (Am c ric an there is the matter of monetary named an ad hoc committee. Association of University advantage to the College, in that conslstmg of two faculty Professors). The rules, which untenured faculty are usually members (one tenured and one are generally applied not as highly paid as those untenured), one student, and throughout the nation. state holding tenure. three Trustees. Professor Bick, that a faculty member teaching At present, slightly less than who is a committee member, at a given college (in his fir~t one-half of the Ce!lege's facult) stated that its major aim is to professorial position) must with is tenured, superfidally devise some alternative to the few exceptions either receive indicating t~hat the limitation present 60 percent tenure tenure by the end of his seventh represents no great threat to limitation. year at that institution or he Continued on Page .3 released. Tenure evaluation I proceedings are usually held ! during a professor's sixth year. In the Fall of 1970 Union's Board of Trustees approved a directive mandating that the number of tenured faculty here must not exceed 60 percent of the total faculty; \individual academic Divisions may have IRC To Publish Journal About International Affairs It ha~ been ~aid that evil will not rule the earth until enough good men arc silent. In doing ib part to prevent :-.uch a ,iJence. the lnterhational Relations Cluh Ms. Kennedy punctuated her remarks with allusions to both campus and city happenings. Union has \deteriorated\ sirice she was last he.re three years ago. She labeled the administration \incompetent\ due to the hassle over a meeting spot for her speech and decried, in a humorous way, the cockroaches reputed to be menaeing students in the dorms. T\\Cf, establishment of a Black Coffeehouse, Concertoes- Part Of College's Arts of Union College is present I) planning publication ol an academic journal relating to the field of international relations. The International Relations Club leels that in !->pite ol the courses relating to intcrnation<tl studies in PoliticaL Science. Economics, History and Comp. Ed.. a suitable intra-collegiate forum for interchange 'of ideas among these courses does not exist at Union. Academic interchange, at best, is often limited to the classroom. Many valuable, exciting ideas rccei ve their death on the professor\ desk, or in the student '1. wastebasket. Therefore, we feel that by providing a channel for such communication in our own academic community, and perhaps extending to the inter- collegiate communit_y, hoth students and facult} \-\ill lind their area:. of interc\t proJected in a more vivid fashion. approximately 60 pages in lengt'h. Individual articles should be from 5 to 20 double spaced type~written pages or approximately 1250-5000 words. The deadline for submission of articles will be in the latter part of the winter term, with a definite date to be given later. The success of the journal depends solely upon the support it receives. from this community. It is the hope of the International Relations Club that this journal will stimulate interest in the field of International Studies and that this interest will carry over into worthwhile pursuits outside of this college. People must be made aware of the relevance of International Relations to the survival of mankind and we hope that this ,journal will hecome a vehicle by \\ hich people ma) gain thb, awareness. · Hi>us'e and the .. removal of ittp~·~petent faculty members (Dr. Gracey wa~> singled out) were designated as causes that students should be concerning themselves with. Brandishing a copy of the \Schenectady Gazette,\ Ms. Kennedy blasted the City Council's voting down of funds Coffee House Such is the range of imagery found in the music of Pat and Victoria Garvey, appearing at the Union College Coffee House this Friday nite, January 14, in Old Chapel. Their album, \Mr. and Mrs. Garvey\ S)llt on Epic records, is full of striking and sensitive lyrics. Their use. of mwrthodox Unio_n Colleg·e ;ill Issue First Book -;Monday Foundtng of a new book~ publishing entity, Union College Press, was announced January 7 by President Harold C. Martin. The Press, established to publish scholarly works in which the college has a strong interest, will issue its first book Jan. 17. The book, \American Portraits 1800~1850,;' surveys trends in portrait pamtmg during the first half of the 19th century by focussing on Union;s own collection of portraits from the period. Portraits included in the collection will be shown at the Schenectady Museum Jan. 16 to Feb .. 20. The book was written by Rita Feigenb~um o{ Albany, formerly assistant to the director of the Albany Institute of History and Art. Mrs. Feigenbaum began studying the Co !·lege's collection wh i I e working fot a master's degree in American studies at the college. Included in the book are 25 full~page plates reproducing the Union portraits, together with a n u m b e r .of s u p p o rt i n g illustrations. Books published by Union College Press will be distributed through the Syracuse University Press. Bernard R. Carman, director of publications and public relations at Union, serves as directo.r of Union College Press. and sometimes, shocking images, makes their music touching, and more than beautiful. Mr. and Mrs. Garvey have played at the Cafe Lena in Saratoga and have appeared in the screening of the Philadelphia Folk Festival of 1970 presented on Channel 17 last year. The experience of seeing Pat and Victoria Garvey, two exceptionally gifted musicians and people, is well worth the effort. Come see for yourself. The simplicity and excitement of their music will remain long after the performance is over. Concerto Competition The annual concerto competition of the Northeastern New York Student Orchestra will be held Saturday, February 12, beginning at 9 a.m. in Room I 0 I of the Arts Building at the College. Open to all high school and college age music students in the Capital District, the winner will perform as a soloist with the orchestra in its spring concerts. The competition is being run by orchestra conductor Gary Parks. Contestants ·must memorize their music and Continued on Page 2 Contributions to the journal will he accepted from hoth st udenb and fac;ulty. \\it h preference given to 'tudcnt article!>. Articles submitted ma) be in the form of rc,earch papers. essays, or conjcct urc and may deal with international relations from a historical, contemporary or futuri,tic approach. We also hope to include synopsis of new course~ as a means of publici1ing relevant courses in the field of international studies and hook reviews if anyone is so inclined. The joUrAal will be· Material rna) he submitted to either Professor \:orman Walbek in Room 119 of H umanitie~ or placed in tht: International · Rt:latiom Club mailbox in Student Acti\ities. Approximate!) 500 c.:opie, ol the iournal \\ill he printed and di!>trihuted to intcreqed >tudcnb. tacult). and alumni 'ometime in the ;.pring term. Abo. it an) one i~ intere;.ted in helping out \\ ith the puhli~hing ol thi, journ;tl. plea~c get tn conta<.:t \lith lou1' lurmamki :t.t J46-~5·\'-~\\~*\· --=-=~-====----:r Correction: In the last issue of CONCORDIENSIS it was stated that the Montebanks .asked for $19,020 from the tax committee. This figure was incorrect and should have be~n $?!020.

Editor-in·Chief Louis S. Snitkoff Features Editor Matthew Swart7 Acting Sports Editor Mark Mindel Photography Editor Dave Conrey News Editor Howard Stone Asst. Managing Editor Gail W. Goodman Contributing Editors William Holleran Mike Meserole Peter Bickerma·n Managing Editor Doug Wong Business Manager Joseph P. Achenbaum National Advt. Manager Mark Shulman Subscription Manager Michael Hurley STAFF: Jim Smith, Jim Rostenberg, Cbris Mandeville, Frank DeLucia, Les Goldman, Rosemary Rice, Don Kaplan, Rita Morandi, Barbara McDonald, Patty Sipe, Richard Kern, AI Reisch,. Joe MQnkofs!ci, George S. Bain, Jody Saslow, Charles Long, Tim Cain. Published Tuesdays and Fridays dunng the. school year by the student body of Union College, Schenectady, N.Y., National Advertising Representative, National EducatiQnal Advertising Service, Inc., College Publishers Representative, 360 Lexington Ave., N.Y:C. Editorial office, Old Gym, Union College. Publication Office, The World Publications, 771 State Street, Schenectady, N.Y. 12307, 346-2356. Entered in the Schenectady r ost office as Second.!:lass Mail Matter. Subscription 20 cents a copy.~ II a year delivered anywhere in the United States. '----------------------------------------- -------- . .J Administrative ln effici,ency II The 4ucstion t .r administrative inefficienty has officially been raised for the sec J1d time in two weeks, and those of us who had hoped that things would be better after registration are beginning to think twice. The complicated series of events which led Florynce Kennedy and her few hundred listeners to the murdcrous.conditions of Old Chapel will. for the moment, be overlooked. ·rhc question which s.hould be considered first is with so few major happenings here, why can't we keep t-rack of the few lecture rooms on campus and happily avoid sched~;~ling problefus? Of the 'three parties struggling for the· iimclight on Tuesday evening; Mrs. ·Ke~:medy, as a guest of the college, should have been given some consideration. It is insulting to hire a speaker and then fail to provide adequate facilities for the speech. Therefore, since the mistake must be considered administrative. the burden of correction \\as one to be dealt with by the college. In choosing Old Chapel as the .solution, however, the college made a g~ossly unfortunate error in judgment. Now that the preliminaries are out of the way, it is time to mention some of the side shows which accompanied the debate over the issue. It appears as though the Black Student Alliance would have u:; believe that the administrators responsible for the mistake wen: being predjudiced in their assignment of Ms. Kennedy to SS 016 in the first place. Was it really too much of a coincidence to he an accident? It was also announced th<tt the Black Student Alliance was not responsible for the mix-up. They were probably also not responsible for bringing Flo Kennedy here in the first place. and as long as we're pleading innocent, the student body of Union was not responsible for the mix-up either. If -it be possible for all of us to· overcome our myopia, it may be seen that no less than three convocations in the 1971-1972 series were already held in SS 016, a'nd with others planned, there is probably no special significance to the fact that this one was not scheduled lor Memorial Chapel in the first place. Sure, William Kuntsler spoke in Memorial Cha.pel; so did Julian Bond. The intent of this observation is not to perpetrate polarization. That has already been attempted. If an effort can he made to put problems in their proper perspective, without too much readihg between the lines. there might be a little less paranoia to deal with as welL L.S.S. birth I I Page 2 CONCORD.fE.NSJS, Jan. -14f 1972 An O ·pe·n ·L· e· ·tt·e· ·r · ··· · .. ,,'\ 1 ;;ii . . · . . . • • . . . . . .• : . . . . • ·. • . . . . . • . ' '>::.:·.:·;>·~;~\t{i:\ ' ' - - c - • • ~ •• ! • • • • • • • \ - _: ' ·.' : • : ~ ... ... ,;:'· ., • • :\ ~ To Harold C. Martin, Members of the Faculty, and the Administration: ihe time has come for the students of the Union College Community to realize what · is coming down. It is time we realize the place we are expected to fulfill within this community, and either act.ively work to change this expectation or to sit by and passively accept it. I hope we may join together in the first of these two alternatives. It is to this end that J direct this letter. The Governance Pn~posal under which we are allegedly operating has charged the Governance and Liaison Committee. with the responsibility to '\establis-h proper procedures for the systematic evaluation of administrations on campus, and arrange for the distribution of its results.\ This committee fulfilled its responsibility by creating such procedures at the end of the Fal1 term. The procedures which were initially prepared by this committee were certainly not the best or most complete form of evaluation. It was, however, a first step which could have been pursued and improved upon after its initial use. A number of developments occurred after the committee made its procedural proposals. The Liaison and Governance Committee had stated that all administrative evaluations be returned to that committee for review. The President, however, decided that all such evaluations, (except for his. own which would be reviewed by the Board) be returned to him for review.· The next step was that almost none of the administrators took the self- evaluation./ procedure seriously. They made light of the entire affair. as if the entire procedure were regarded as an umt~cessary game. The final step was when the Faculty Council voted against the evaluative procedure of the Governance and Liaison Committee, which in essence means that there will be no evaluation of administrators this year. voted against the , procedure. Specifically, ~ would vote against any evaluation of administrators that is to he returned to and revieWed by the President. Once again, the President, through trying to coopt the work which Is not morally or legally his under the present administration, has destroyed any chance of administrative evaluation. Once again, the President has created a situation in which only politjcal games can exist. Concerning these games,· lhe · President has once again· divided students, · faculty, and administrators. The facl!lty member, being a political and academic being, will not evaluate an administrator poorly if that evaluation is retutne(:l to the President, which might mean to that faculty member, loss of his job (or other such political ramification.) Once again, any sense of real community within Union College has been destroyed. We are forced to live in an adversary relationship, rather than a community. But why has this occurred? Does the administration or faculty feel that the students do not have the right to evaluate administrators? Or is it perhaps that you are afraid to find that the majority of the administration are incompetent fools? For whatever the reason, the students of Union College must live, at least for another year, under the domination of an administration over whom it has no say. Students, once again, have been found to be less than equal in this community. The student must come . to accept as his bible, Jerry Farber's book, Student As Nigger. This . year, though, many students .. rnay find it necessary to evaluate the administrators of this institution. For all of. you who always wondered why frustration has in the past reached a point of confrontation, you have only to use this occurrence as one minor example. ln this instance, confrontation has. been made necessary. The students will have their evaluation. We may have to march into the administration btdlding · to evaluate the President, into the Oean;s office to evaluate the Oeari, and iJ1to the computer center to evaluate . the administrators there. In the final analysis, the students wHI evaluate the administration this yea,t, even· if that evaluation must be in the streets. We might not win, but we will show · the administration, the faculty,: the alumni, and the Board · of Ttustees, that we are equal members ·of :an ~institution; in search of and crying out for real community. I request a response ftom the Presid:ent, . · fr.om the administration, from faculty members, or from anyone who might possibly be able to justify these unjustifiable actions. In frustration and extreme anger, Mark Coven Coffeehouse .. a . • ~ ); ' i.- Continued from Page J1LJ:.d B present selc;!ctions 1o_t<:j<i)1ff11'1 recognized standard classil:al pieces for which orchestral parts are readily a,vaiiabl~; The orchestra, with 75 members ·Presently, is he-adquart,..ered here but attracts performers from schools thro.ughout the area. Further information and entry blanks for the competition can be obtained by contacting the orchestra office in the department of the arts· at the college. \Civilization'' \Civilization a series of lJ hour long color films narrated by British art historian Sit Kenneth Clark, will be shown here beginning Friday, Jan. 14. · The first eight films in the series will be shown on Friday evenings through March 3 while the final five will be shown oti Mondays, April 3, April 10, April 24, May l and May I 5. Ali showings will be at 8 p.m. in the auditorium of the Social Science Building on the campus atld are ope'n free to\'the public, Let me begin with this final step. To my knowledge of the Governance proposal, the Faculty Council cannot legally . . do what it has done. It may vote to amend the Constitution. but it~ may not vote down the• evaluative procedure. But more importantly, if I were a member of the faculty, I, too. would have lETTERS . . . . - . . ' To the Editor: I am no longer responsible for any debts, hassle& or musicians incurred by the U. Col. Coffeehouse, It's Alifanz's baby. Love, Paul Delfin. * * * * Open Letter to the Student Body: The effort to change the present structure of the Student Senate is not an individual subsequent meetings. Our committee exists ~fB:)~uru result . of a Student , S~B.~Wrrsq resolu!wn. We are a st~.C17~~ Jr: committee open to all members of the student body who express an interest. thank you, Marty Sherman, '74 .... __ ......_,...._......., ____ . ,.-.-, ... - To Whom It May Con• endeavor. There are some fifteen cern: people involved in discussion and Due to a p· remeditated soul-searching concerning this issue. act of imperialist aggreso RUBELLA VACCINE PROGRAM defects are forever The committee is, at present, , sion, the Persian high composed of Peggy Miller, Mark . Kl . H · K AIL v B b cO·RI'I:tlan,d · · · gle·e.fu:Uy·, ·.·· em, enry ass, e y, o . 1 Kennedy, Dan Wolfe, John annouri~e$. the openi,ag, Celentano, Pat Wardell; Robin of hostilities . against . Waring, Dave Robbins, lorn Thompson, and myself. Several those vultures of the· .. unless you help. to the march of Dimes ' 0 ~ * ' <f •,• •• • ' ,~. -· ,· , o i' , ~ l II J <, ·I t o other students have expressed Aegean, the Greeks. Pre· interest and have been invited to I pare for the worst, filthy SPECIAL DISCOUNT . 1 T To Union Students \ warlli()ngers. he wrath of the gloriot1s and GEORGE'S MUSIC STORE voluptuous Persian 509 State Street Empire will surely befall·· \LAW SCHOOL - WiLL I LIKE IT? CAN l MAKE IT?\ A . new book by a re~ent law grad· uate for prospective law students. Send $2.95. Kroos Press, Box 370\IA, Milwaukee, Wis. 53217 or order through yoqr b_ookstore. : , you!! Wrathfully yours, General B.S.~ ..... & . ' . .. ~ . ' \\ ' • • • II. ~ .t .i J I '' ' I H hal we 1 CoJ Vic ton in 1 501! fref l me Me Ho nat dis rer wo Jel Co Sc a· PG Yc Pc A• le~ Ja II ca Dr wi Ja in ta sc s, ar ar D A in m 4: L a: c hi b I\' tt In 01 H in w fc in fc fc F a] J;

CONCORDIENS!S, Jan 14, 1972 Page 3 Administratiue Mix-up .. H. Allen Wilson organ recital · . a·lt· Old Chapel Conuocation has been post,poned ·to next Do. you know . . about week, Sunday, Jan. 23. Pl1;.nned . Parenthood of * · * * * Schenectady? If not. contact Steven Ente, 346~9:369. or Joe The Union College Coffeehouse will p.resent Pat and Victoria Garvey and Bob Fields tonight, JiuJ.uary 14, at 8:30 p.m. in the Old ChapeL Admission is 50<1: and· coffee and ·donuts an~ fred!!· · * * * * There ~Hl be a De.utschve.rei,n meeting/ social hour at 7:30 p.m. Monday, January 17, in Hale House Loung~. * * * * Are you upset with your natien's priorities? Are you disgusted and scared by domestic repression? Would you like t0 work for the resistance? Contact Jeff Simon, Harrisburg Defense Committee. 346-9-582. * * * * The Sociology and Pol.itical Science Departments will present a lecture ··by Dennis H. Wrong, Pr&,ft;~pr of Sociology at . New York . University,· on. Class Politics and Etbnicit~· Among American Workers Today. The leeture is scheduled for Monday, January 17, at 4:30 p.m. in SS liS. All are invited to attend. * * * * Mr. James Kenney, a Monkofsky, 346-9730. . * * * * The Modern Dance Workshop is sponsoring a trip to New York on S!).turday, January 22, to see the evening .performance of the Alvin Nikolais-Murray Louis modern dance companies. R.ound~trj,p bus fare is , $9.00; departure is 7:0Q A.M.; return to campus is about 1:30 A.M. Performance tickets ar.e $1.50. Apyone wishing to take advantage of the charter bus price andfor attend the dance ·program sign~up in the Old Chapel, Modern Dance Bulletin Board by Friday, January 14. * * * * On Tuesday, January 18, the Hispanic Society will present Morton Spillenger speaking on Puerto Rico, in the Hale House Student Lounge at 8 p.m. All Spanish students are invited to attend. * * *· * There will be a coffeehouse at Phi Sigma Kappa Saturday nite, January 15, featuring Bob Bernhardt, right after the bas·ketball game. Admission is 25~. Due to a complex series of ¢\'cnts, the conYocation address given by Florynce Kenned.) Tuesday night was unfortunately scheduled for the Old Chapl'l. a room far too small to accoAunodate the seYeral hundred people who turned out for the lecture. According to Professor Robert Peck, chairman of the Lecture Committee, the ·on\ocation as Tenure Cont'd Continued from Page.l The commhtee distributed a questionnaire to the facult). listing possibile options. and the data is now heing anal)1ed. According to these results. it appears that majority faculty sentiment rematns in fa\ or of the traditio!1ai tenure guarantees. as embodied in a statement formulated h) the Union chapter ,)f AAUP. The special committee hopes to h:n e concrete sugr.;stions prepan;d for the April meeting of th~: Board of Trustees. hut parties involved acknowledge that no satisfactory resolution of the pr.oblem has yet emerged. originall) plann~d was to ta kc place in SS016. Earlier this ~~ar. Professor Gad~1 of the English Department re4ucst~d that th~ lecture he relocated so that he c.ould usc the projection facilities of SSOl6 for his Compt\ehcnsin~ Edticati(in class -in film. lin~\\\ arc of Ms. Kemlcd~ ·s pop.ularit~. Peck agreed and the lccttu-e was nioved to Old ChapeL tht: onl) other an1ilahlc room oil ~.:ampus. During the coursL' of tht' past week. through coin:ersatinns \\ ith \arious students and mcmht•rs llf the communi!\. it became dear that Old (;hapd might h~ inadctjuate. A tall tH Miss Werilplc. the t\ll)rdinatnr nf rooms and e\ents for the colkg~·. found her to he ill. The secrL·tary there looked owr the standing scnedulc and, ~eemg JHlthin,t! Union's Hillel will sponsor a Coffeehouse membt•rship drive, this Sunday January 16, in Hale House Student Lounge at 7:30 p.m. - l~aul Delfin and Don Mirate '\·ill perform. Cider and donuts are free as is the entertainment, and everyone is welcome. . listed for Memorial Chapel. told Peck that as far as she kne\L the Chapel \las free. As a re~ult. mai-ntenance was requested to pmpare the Chapel for a Tuesday night lecture. llnfortunatcl~. nn Monda) aft,ernlHltl, PL·ck re..:ei\ed a l'all from Mi:-;s Wemple. apologi;ing fM the mix- up and at the same time informing him that l\1e]nt'll'ial Chapd· '\'~not ~nailahk hcL':tusc i.hc '\orthcast \~:\\ York Stu&·nt Orchestra \HHtld lk' h;l\ i ng 1 b usual wcl'kl) rehearsal ;tt th~· i'illll' <.)f the lecture. B~ thi, tin11: 1\.hmda~ it \\as tlhl lah· to dwnge thL' rehearsal and th~.: result \\as lhL' fia~l'l' in Old ('hapc'l. Grant Received 'IlK· Col kgt• h;t~ t L'I:Cl\ ed a $2.500 Pn:silktnial ( 'pntill!'L'llC~ grant. ft:nm thL· 1·~,11 1 lllllldatwn ~.~r \c\\ Y-11rk Ct1~ ,b patl 111' l'ltc' foundatillll':-. I tJ7J.72 cdttcatt<lll support pio!!ram t 'niun j, Pill' nl l.n pri\ar~.· cnll:gt'' thnllt!!hPut th.: l'\llllltl 1 l1l ]L'L'c'!IL' ('IL';.ide!ltt.tl cnn! in gene~ !!I anh \I hidt tnt. tl $3 7 5.000 tIll~ 1 c;t L candidate for a position in the Department of Economics, will visit the College on Monday, January 17. ·You are cordially invited to meet him. and hear his talk. An informal meeting is scheduled for 10:00 a.m. in the Social Science Faculty Lounge and the talk, <:;redit Availability and Consumer lnve$tment In Durable Goods: The Case of Automobiles, will he at 1:30 p.m. in SS 110. The Albany Symphony will present an old fashioned Po.ps Concert Saturday, January 22, at 8:30 p.m. at the Palace Theatre. Julius Hegyi will conduct the Symphony. · New Selective Service Policies The Barbershop Chorus will JOtn the Symphony for this concert in a medley of songs. The Barbershop Quartet will sing without accompaniment. The Selective Service System released a list of proposed changes in their regulations which will affect young men facing the draft process in the future. 'The changes are expected to become effective in mid-February. Changes in Regulatjons Pr~posed t«!~ll\ The program will include Skaters Waltz, Poet and Peasant, · Subje~ * * * * Overture, Babes in Toyland, The There will be a Division I Mikado, The Student Prince, I. Right to appeal following a pmnnal · appearance before the local board meeting Tuesd~ty, January 18, at_ Londonderry Air, and The 4:00 p.,m. in the Hu.m.anities Carnival of Verric~. 'The Trumpet Lounge. S.olo in the Carnival· of Venice 2. Registrant's right to bring witnesses * * * * 'll b I d t.. J M · to his local bo.ard .personal appearance · w~ e p aye uy ames orns. LOST: A knitted brown and Tickets for the January 22 yellow winter hat at the concert 'may be obtained by basketball g&me Wednesday sending a stamped self-addressed night. Also a white scarf. If you envelope to the Albany found them, please contact Mark Symphony Orchestra, D & H Mindel at Phi Delta Theta, 377~ Bu. Hding·. Room 26, Albany, appea\ · 3. Personal appearance before 11 4651 or 346~9730. His mother ij,Y. 12207, or. by calling 465~ boards and the Presidential appeal made the hat. 4:755. Student ti.cket prices are board * *\ * * $>1.50. Production crews are now being set up ·for the Mountebanks' historic first rtl~~ica1~~ PEACE. Carpenters, paiiif€~, · costumers, ushers, .. ttnD•ll.· 1 1 l .. tlcKet;se ers, e ectnc1ans., mountain~climbers and hookers are ALL needed. Give Peace A Chance, not to mention a helping hand. Sign . up now on the bulletin board of the N ott Memorial Green Room. * * * * A special qualifying session for the Bridge Na·tional Intercollegiate Pairs will be held on January 25 at 7:45 in the Hale Hot,I.Se .Faculty Lounge. All those intet;eSt!!d. a·~e · welcome. , There will~b~ ~ one dollar entrance fee for thirn:niorial tournament. * * *·* the next session of the Stude~i-Faculiy Bridge Club will be held on January IS in the Hale House Faculty Lounge at 7:45 P.M. All those interested in participating are welcome. * * * * Applications are now available in the Student Activities Office for three positions · oh the newly- formed Standjng ·Committee on Fina;ncial Aid .. _ -Con'lpleted applitations wlU be due on Janu~ry 18, 1972. · * * * * * * * * ~ The Glee Club is presently holding mid~year auditions. For those interested in joining, please contact Prof. Wilson (Old) Physics- 2nd floor. * * * * The Student Senate will meet Tuesday evening January 18, in H. U. liS at 7:00p.m. ' to * * * * BE SURE TO LISTEN & the J.B. Flying Circus ..• Friday nites from II p.m. to 11. The HonkyT onks o-n . WRUC; 640 a.m.; the Voice pf Union & Skidmore. - Graubart & Sons may run small ad·s, but they have big values. • 41ft:.: • ·:;~~ ~~ ,r·~·· ::'7 ~~;~. .. ... '~ ... · ,.. Sohenectady'.s famous diamond shop~ {for tbree generations) 166 Jay st. THREE UNION GRA;OUATES IN FAMILY 4. Time limit~ lur rc4ue,ting a ppea ranees or a_ppca I> 5. ·Personal appearance wtth the local board prior to the hC>ard·, dcci,iun on a CO or hardship deferment rc4uu't 6. Failing to report for scheduled per- sonal appear<~nce with local or appeal board 7. Providing reasons to registrants for adverse decisions by local and appeal boards 8. Consideration of deferment and ex- emption requests after an induction order has be~il issued . . Status 11riur tu chan~:e\ in thr l.aw and Regulation' A regi,trant '\\ allol\c'd l<> appc,,d 111, deci,ion <>I hi' loc:al ho:ud v. IHL l1 \\' maile-d to him altL'I hi' pt'r\>nal .1p- 1 pea ranee. A registnint was not a !lowed I<> 01 ing witnesses to his persC>nal appe.aranee Personal appearances before the appeal board apd the Presidential appeal board were not allowed. A rcgl,tlalll haJ 'O da\ t. .. m ,,,,. dale \\ h\ imu:il 'liotice oi Cla'\''L'l'\'' !'>'>'> hmn IIOJ in v.h1.:h lo lel[ll<'\ \ rt·l'on.d appearance or an appc•a I II ht· dn'll·d ,, per~onal appcaran.:c. he \\onld he· '1\111 ol nev. SSS hmn 110 Inllo\1 Ill)! h\ !lltTllng v.nh the hoard. lie lh.:n had 10 d.tl' flcun tht· <laic on th~ ncv.. I Prill 110 111 \tud1 lo rc411C't ;m appeal. Another m·v. I< >I Ill lltl was wnt tollov.ing action h1 Ilk· ••rrc·at hoard, II the \ole ol the appc'oli hn,ull '\\ le>S than unanimou,, he had 10 \\\ I r 11ti1 the date ol hb latc't h>rm 110 •n \dHdl !11 ·a,k lor rcdcv. h1 the l'rt·\.J :•rrc·.tl hoard. II rc!!i,trani e,]Jd not lw'c the n)!lll 1\ rcljUe\t a pcr,onal appcarann· '\'h ht' hoard prior to the hoard', dc-cr\utl on ( '() or harcJ,htp claim' 1 here wa~. no clear gutdclinc to local hoard~ concerning appmpriatc action to be tak~;n when a registrant !ailed to re- port for a pcr,onal appearance. l.ocal and appeal hoarcJ, were nnt re- quired to provide a rcAi,trant \~ ith rea- sons for their decisions, A re4uest lor a deferment or an cKemp- tion wah considered by a local hC>ard after the mailing of an induction order only if there had hccn a change in the registrant's statu' resulting from cir- cumstances oVer which he had no con- trol. ' ' A registrant will be allowed to appeal the decision of the local board, which will be mailed to him _after his person~ al appearance. A registrant will be entitled to bring up to three witnesses to his personal ap- pearance before his local board. Fur~ ther, the regl.strant will be entitled to such time for his personal appearance 11, il n:asonably necessary for a fair repraeatation of his claim. Normally, 15 minutes will be determined adequate for this pUIJ!o~. Penonal appelll'8llces before a quorum of the appeal board and a quorum of the Ptetidential appeal board will be allow- ed upon written request of the regis - trant. The registrant will be entitled to such time for his personal appearance (s) as is reasonably necessary for a representation of his claim. The 115 day limitation will remain at all three · levels of personal appearance {appeals. However, local boards may extend the 15-day time limits when they are statisfied that the registrant's failure to request a personal appearance or appeal within the 15 day period was due to some cause beyond his control. For those appeals in which a registrant does not elect a personal appearance, the appeal boards will delay their consideration of the case until at least 30 days has elapsed since the mailingofthe latest form 110. A registrant will have the right to request a personal appearance with his local board prior to the board's decision on his CO or hardship classification request. The same procedural rights which will be afforded a registrant at a postdecision personal appearance will be afforded a registra!lt who requests a predecision meeting. A registrant who fails to report for a personal appearance before his local or ~appeal board will be given five days in which to submit acceptable reasons for his failure to appear; This period may be eKtended by the local or appeal board if it is satisfied that the registrant's failure to appear was due to some cause beyond his control. The reasons for adverse classification acti()ns at local boards and appeal boards will be sent to each registrant at the same 'time he is sent a Notice of Classification card informing him of the board's decision . A· registrant who receives a postpone- ment of induction authorized by a state director or the National Director, or issued in order for the registrant to complete a school term or academic year, will be able to receive considera~ tion, for a classification change until 301 40 days prior to his actual induction date. . . )~l&lt••·•,~···•.t-JJ:tl' ,, • \' ' or. \ -' \ ·+ .t • I ~,,, • .,.-, 1t'.\ •• ~,l\ .•• , ••1.• • •,• V V' ':,_. +~ 't;.'· t, \ '.' ', • • • • o • • \' 4 to A 11 • 1t t ~ t i t ' ; '' •. •' it, ,. \' • • t 11> • .- • • 1 • ~-it~~ .,.·!! .. l ,Jl'J'J'ff' -l\'fl ~!Ill\ !l> 1 it r.,ii_A -;.']!.~J··.;Jtq~tf 1 \-'lol'-• .r, '<':f.'~ .1!1 v \to -

Page 4 CONCORDIENSJS, Jan. 14, 1972 Concordy Sports Mike Doyle attempts one of his 10 shots against the Mariners. He scored nine poims, mostly on baskets off of his strong 12 rebounds, and teamed with Tom Bacher and Chuck Abba for a big 37 rebounds. - Photo, by Jeff Weilburg Strong First Half Helps Cagers Ouer Mariners 6y Bill Holleran I he varner hoopsters played their first real basketball game of the New Year on Wednesday night, the Queens contest ndtwithstanding, and Gutmuscled their way past a persistent Kings Point five en route to a 77-.65 win. The victory upped the Garnet's record to 6-2, and sunk the Mariners' to 4-5.. A strong first half performance by the Dutchmen sealed the victory, with good Febounding and some hot foulshooting the keys to Union's dominance. Good first half efforts by Tom Bacher, Mike Doyle, and Bill Carmody were also instrumental in helping the Garnet to their 41- 28 first half margin. The Garnet outrebounded the Mariners in the first stanza 38-15, and their dominance off the boards allowed them to take 45 shots to the Marin~r's 29. The Dutchmen were able to hit on only 15 of them in an ice cold shooting performance, but they added 11 free throws to stay in command. Kings Point, meanwhile, was sinking 13 of their 29 field goal attempts, bUt they were mis~rable from the line. They bucketed only three foul shots in the first half. _ Bacher hit 14 of his game total 20 points in the first stanza, and hauled down 10 rebounds in a tough performance inside; His totals (20 poi,n~~· 14 rebol!Il,ds) were tops for ·tfie Garnet. Ddyle scored only four points in the half, but he grabbed 10' rebounds. The 6-3 junior finished with nine points and 12 rebounds. Sophomore guard Bill Carmody made his first start of the season after being hobbled by an ankle injury, and he responded in fine fashion by throwing in 10 first half points·. He finished with 15 tallies on the evening, with many of his field goals coming on exciting long- range jumpers. The Garnet were lucky t}!at they played so well in· the first half, because the Mariners outplayed the Dutchmen in the · second stanza. The Mariners outscored Union in the- last half, 37-34, and outreboupded the Garnet, 27-20. Freshman Mariner center N~al Snape graphically showed the Fieldhouse crowd just why he is st~rting :for ;Kip.gs Point as a first year · man. ·The· · 6-5 Snape connected on 12 of 16 field goal attempts, totaled a game high 25 points, and tied Bacher for the rebounding lead wi.th 14. H~ was the u:ndisput¢d · leader of the Mariners, both offen!lively and defensively. Chuck Abba carne off the bench late in the first ,half in place of Geoff Walker, and made one field goal before the buzzer sounded. In the second half he was the hottest player on the court, hitting five straight buckets ove~ one stretch en rt,}~.' te. to a 14 pomt performance. lj .. e also pulled in 11 re~nd finished with I 6 points· ·--r his season's top performance. Potsdam, St. Lawrence Add To Matmen's Woes Overall the Dutchmen had a sub-par shooting night, hitting on only 29 of 76 attempts for a . poor 38 per cent. Kings Point shot better, 27 of 62 for 43 percent. The coldest of the Dutchmen was Jim Tedisco, who made but three af 15 attempts from the floor in his second ice-cold performance of the ·season. He finished with eight points for his night's work, three better than his five po~nt output against Middlebury. Utica College invades · the Fielhouse Saturday night at 8:00 p.m. to wrap up Union's three- game homestand. The Pioneers are led by center Dave Owens, who holds Utica records for most points in a season (437) and best one-season scoring average (24.1). Owens, who also led the Pioneers in rebouding last season, is joined on the Utica attack by prolific scorers Doug Knapp and Arnie Westervelt. In last season's contest between the two squads,. the Garnet stormed from behind in the second half to win going away. This year, however, the Pioneers should be tougher. They have already beaten Hartwick this season, edging out last year's NCAA tournament semifinalists 78-77. by MINNER \When you're hot. you're hot. and when you're not ..... \. Fill it in yourself. If you are a Union College grappler you know you are not. After posting a comfortable victory in the Albany State Tourney, you were looking forward to a tough, but winning season. Then came the nine more teams, and the state ,. meet - a month and a half to redeem yourself AND the season. · nightmare weekend when you lost two close matches to teams you should have beaten. And now you have lost · two more matches to Potsdam last Tuesday night and to St. Lawrence the following afternoon. You could have won those matches too, although they were both against excellent teams. The big problem is what to tell yourself now. Do you say, \Damn. we should be at least 4-1 now.\ or do you forget it and look ahead'? You have a long road ahead. Sure, 14-0 sounds great, but it is not in your grasp anymore. But 9-5 looks attainable and if the breaks come back your way, maybe 10-4. How about it? Anyway, Howie Benedict, Mark Zullo, and Larry Dagostino, (from Schenectady's M.P. High) all won twice on the recent north run. Benedict remaining unbeaten at 7-0. Zullo, looking like he will be at least as tough as last year, posted two pins at 3:37 (Potsdam) and 3:40 (St. L.). Mark raised his record to 6-1 in tieing Benedict for the team pin lead and also served as acting captain for the second time. Dagostino recorded one pin, against St. Lawrence at 7:23, to raise his record to 3-2. Also, Bruce Freeman, who wrestled Quick Siena· JV Tops Frosh Hoopers, 97-79 Basketball is not always the highly pub·Jicized game of .\Big Men\ and such was the case in the Gamet yearlings' 97-79 loss to a quick Siena J.V. fi\e on Wednesday. Not that a big mal\ Would have been unwelcome. but the tempo of this game \\ao not set up front. h I I • ' It was set w en u mons starting guards failed to score in the first half, and totaled only five points in the game. They were decisively overmatched by their Siena counterparts. who totaled 30 points. Even an 18 point second half outburst by Jack Comerford could not offset Siena'5 58-34 half time advantage. Comerford's second half effort seemed to light a fire under the sluggish yearlings, who stormed to within I 0 points of the Indians with over mne minutes r~maining in the game. At that point the Dutchmen faltered, however, and Siena was able to take control of the contest once again. Charlie Gugliotta had another fine game, totalling 16 points and 12 rebounds, but when he fouled out late in the second half he took almost all the ..stuffing out of the Garnet rally. Rich Maisano could have possibly earned a starting berth by chipping in with 13 tallies. Greg Luntz also looked good in a brief appearance for the 1-1 Dutchmen, who Meet Albany Junior College Saturday in the Fieldhouse. The preliminary to the varsity contest starts at 6: 15 p.m. only at Potsdam, won a decision to even his record at three apiece. And that was about it for the Garnet. At Potsdam, the Staters won five out of the last six matches, aU but Howie's, to take Union 26- 15. Thep the matmen travelled to Canton, N.Y. for a pinning : contest, as the two teams recorded three six-po.inters each. Crucial Union losses were at 134 and 177. Alan Calabro, wrestling for the first time since the Tournament in December, lost to tough Fred Pearce the brother of R.l.T.'s To.m Pearce, at 134. The Pearce brothers wrestled each other in last year's State Championships. Calabro was wrestling two weightclasses above normal and was pinned by simply being outweighed. He was leading 2-1 at the time. Pat Wardell did not have it in Canton and dropped a close 5-3 decision. St. Lawrence 27, Union 21. In accordance with the unreasonable scheduling, Union lays off until Jan. i2nd . after wrestling five matches in six days. The Garnet will then host Hobart, Dartmouth and tough Springfield. . . ~72 Intramural Skeds R·eady Intramural and intertraternity bowling and basketball schedules are ready to be picked up at the gym in Coach Lawrence's office. Also, independent Basketball league schedules are ready. Games· begin January 17th. All single and double entries for handball and racketball elimination championship should be on coach Lawrence's desk not later than Wednesday January 19th. t t t • l • t •• • • t • .. TUTORS NEEDED IN MATH & CHEMISTRY APPLY between 2 and 4 AT TUTORING OFFICE, OLD CHAPEL \ .. ; ·~'\\'~ \' Hj - - - \\' ._ \\ ~nif!'r.· ., r. ·~ SKI BROffilfY SPECIAL SEASON. TICKET RATE - $75. DISCOUNT LIFT PRICES With Student ID For information contact: MIKE GINSBURG 312 D TY ·HARRINGTON 426 S BRUCE KOWALSKI ODX . . . . ~ .. ·. ~ ~ . ~ ~ ; ~ ~ 1 ~ ; ~ ' ' ' ~ • • • o I < i ~~~ II ' 0 p1 th th te fe1 aJl M Ja co in F€ or gu ha Tc otl pe in co re~ th~ 01 on m; an e1 tr al Ill I Sc of a! I on a Stl w co an sir WI ex th de Stl in th ro at (d pe cc h~ a fo d< th sil gi

Founded at Union College 1877 Vol.101, No. ~2. SCHENECTADY, NEW YORK. JANUARY 18, 1972. · Price Twenty Cents Conceits Planned for Winter Term Dr. L~wis Drusin, Union 1960 will address ,a · Biology . Department Seminar Thursday, Janufti'Y 27, at 4:30 p.m. in .SS 016. His subject will be \Gonnorbea the current pandemic.\ All members of the college community are welcome to attend this open meeting. Anti-War Group Mobilized Here The Union College Social (electric violinist with the Flock), Committee announced today Billy Cobham (drummer with plans for three concerts during Miles Davis and Dreams), Jan Dr. Drusin .graduated with Honors in Biology prior to attending ·Cornell Medical School. Following his medical· training, Dr. Drusin served as a Public Health Officer and particularly as Venerea I Disease Control Officer for the District of Columbia. He is presenty Assistant Professor of Public Health at CorneD Medical School, and is devel«lping a survey of the incidence, e.ffects, and treatment of venereal diseases among college students. by PATTY SIPE Schenectady. He emphasized that action to be taken should be determined by the students in the group, and then suggested some of his own ideas to those present. the nf;!xt month, beginning with the opening con<;ert for winter term this Saturday. The Mahavishnu Orchestra, featuliing John McLoughlin will appear in a FREE concert. in Memorial Chapel this Saturday, January 22, at 8:30 p.m. Other concerts planned for this term include Carly Simon on February 4, and Roberta Flack on February 25 .. McLoughlin is viewed by many as one of the finest guitarists on the music scene, and has played with Miles Davis, Tony Williams' Lifetime, and other noted musicians. He has performed at Carnegie Hall and in concerts throughout. the country and his solo record has received rave reviews. The Village Voice described the music of the Mahavishnu Orchestra as \a style that draws on jazz and rock, blues and funk, makes great use of electJ,\orrics ... and is improvisational and energetic ... it goes beyond the traditional forms, chord changes and melodies characteristic of the music it has grown out of.\ McLoughlin, who recently fotmed the Mahavishnu Orchestra, ·began · its style of experimental mu.sic after gathering Jerry Goo,fiman Hammer ~. (pianist), . and RiQk Laird (bass). \The experiments into this new style have produced a unique, remarkably driving musie,\ The Voice said. early Simon, scheduled to appear in concert on February 4, has released two albums on Elekt.l\a and is to appear with Mickey Newbury. Roberta Flack, booked for February 25, has recorded three albums on Atlantic and is known for her fine voice. Bureau Looking For Aides To Teach Art Volunteers are needed to teach arts and crafts to a wide variety of children and adults of all ages in Schenectady County, according to Barbara C. Fuchs, director of the Volunteer Bureau of the Community Welfare Council of Schenectady County. Professional skill or teaching experience is not needed, Mrs. Fuchs explained, and the range of subjects is practically unlimited. \Basic techniques in aln'lost any art or craft will give the student fun and a sense of accomplishing s'omething,\ she said. \This work is· particularly important because many of those who will be learning will be retarded adults or children, or others who don't have as many ways of finding satisfaction ·as the rest of us do.\ The Volunteer Bureau is an organization that lists persons who are interested in doing volunteer work of all sorts for a Wide . variety of communi-ty agencies. By having the names of possible volunteers on file in a central location, instead of scattered among the various agencies, the person with a skill to offer can be matched more efficiently with a job that may need to be done. A chapter of the Student Mobilization Committee (SMC) was established here in a meeting held in Old Chapel last Thursday night. ;;· The meeting w~s called by Dan McNett (a member of the Schaefer Library staff) who discussed the major aims of the national organization and possibilities for action,a~t, J}n~on. McNett pointeil out· that· mass action, such as t11at preceding the McGovern-Hatfield bill,-: puts pressure on· the Administration to take positive ·action on a situation. He maintained that things are not going to change in Southeast Asia until the Administration feels a crisis, in the form of this sort of pressure. The effectiveness of mass action is .one of the basic beliefs of the SMC. 'Its basic aim. is to organize large numbers of people using colleges and high schools \as a base to reach out and organize the rest of the population in anti-war action.\ The SMC holds the view that legal, peaceful demonstration is a powerful means of anti-war action. McNett holds the opinion that the main goal of the SMC at Union should be to work with existing organizations to reach out to the high schools, other colleges, and non-student sectors of the population in the area in order to organize them around the goal of ending United States .involvement in Southeast Asia. In order to accomplish this, he feels that the SM C should try to obtain the support of other student organizations, such as the student government and newspaper, not only to endorse its position, but to donate money and time to this cause. Another of its g~als should be to publicize and to stimulate involvement in the mass demonstration planned for April 22. It was decided to form a Union chapter of the SMC, and three of the fifteen people present expressed interest in becoming national members. Most of the others present, although uninterested in national memberships, were willing to support the efforts of the Union chapter. Inter-Nation Simulation; The most pres!ling ·- need at present, according to Mrs. Fuchs, is for arts and crafttJ instructors to teach basic skills to retarded adults. The classes are scheduled to run three days a week, Monday, Wednesday, and Friday, from 10 A.M. to 3 P.M. There will be a brief training period in advance for those who would like to be instructors. The SMC is organized around one and only one goal - the immediate withdrawal of all United States forces from Sgutheast Asia. Efforts are made to avoid fragmentation of the organization due to disagreement about other issues. For this reason, the SMC does not take stands in elections; thus, the organization will support no particular candidate in the upcoming Presidential election. McNett emphasized that he was encouraged by the size .of the turnout for the initial meeting, and expressed the opinion that a few people can be extremely effective in running such an organization. Game ls Politics Study Plans were made for some of those present to attend the next meeting of the Schenectady Peace Center, and the SMC was given the full support of the Student Social Action Committee. This past weekend, the Soci.a..l Sciences Building was the scene of thirty-five people running around as if the world depended on what they were doing; and .in a sense, it did. The· people were students in Professor Norman Walbek's Political Science 12 course in International Relations and they were participating in a simulation of world politics. . Officially called the Inter- Nation Simulation (INS), the game was developed by political scientists at Northwestern University as a means for making the study of the way the world works more interesting. The motivating idea is that the best way to learn something is to experience it personally. From this basis, simulation gaming has developed as an attempt to structure hypothetical situations in which people can place themselves and then act out the roles they have assumed. The INS world consists of an arbitrary number of nations (depending on the number of people available). Each nation is composed of five members: A head .o( state, a domestic advisor, a foreign affairs advisor, a foreign affairs diplomat, and a domestic opposition leader. At the beginning of the first- simulated year, each nation is given a main decision form which contaips its set of nl:l.tional characteristics, including levels of natural resources, conventional and nuclear weapons, units of capital and overall ·basi-c economic capability. With this information and a general outline of how the other countries stand in terms of each other, the nations are left to make the world work. There is an internationftl organization· but all rules of its functioning are left up For further details, Barbara Fuchs can be reached at the Volunteer Bureau, 6 Union Street, Schenectady, or by phone at 372-3395, between 9:30 A.M. and 2:00 P.M. Mter he had outlined the general principles of the national organization, McNett was asked what he would like to see done in · Professor Herman To· Embark On State Department Lecture Tour to member nations to decide. This February, Professor Robert S. Herman of Thete are messengers to carry the Economics Department will embark on a one- communications between nations month, three-nation lecture tour. and conference areas set .aside for Professor Herman's lectures in Iran, Nepal, and - international meetings-. there is India will focus on the Ni~on New Economic Policy also an independent world press and its international repercussions. He says that which has access to ·all messages . President Nixon has launched the United States in sent and may send reporters into new economic directions, with increased nations for interviews. Each government controls. simulated year is an hour and He describes the program as characterized by a one-half long, during which time new introspection and a search for new priorities each nation must decide how it is for international programs. Herman says that the going to spend its money, what New Economic Policy recognizes. with growing trades it wants to make. what profundity the int~r-relatio.nships of one economy alliances it wants to join; whether with another. it will declare war, and aU of the He says that new paths to world economic other things that m~ke up the development are of particular interest and day-to-day workings, of importance to him right now. international affairs. The time is \My personal concern, which must be a planetary strictly limited in order to· give concern,\ he says, \is how to make this planet more the participants a better feel for livable and less combustible.\ Professor Herman the limitation under which real maintains that the widening gap between rich and world deci:sion-makers work, poor nations is intolerable. especially during times of crisis. \Over the long run,\ Professor Herman says, \the Once the first year has begun, imbalance of privileges may be more critical to thete is no outside interference world economic balance than the balance of Continued on Page 2 payments, •• During this lecture tour, which will take place under the auspices of the United States Department of State, he will meet with top government officials, university faculty, and other opinion leaders. Professor Herman regrets that it is not possible for all his students to accompany him on this three- country-in-three-weeks tour which he characterized as \a tough assignment.\ One of the countries that he will be visiting is India. When he was questioned about the kind of reception he might receive after recent events have made Indo-American relations something less than friendly, Professor Herman acknowledged that \I may meet with considerable hostility. But,\ he added jokingly, \'a member of a college faculty should be accustomed to de.aling with hostility.\ Emphasizing the importance of narrowing the economic gap between rich and poor nations, he had this to say: \Predicting the future is always hazardous, but one thing we are sure of: the future is not postponable. We can;t say due to inclement international relationships the future will be cancelled. The future also happens to be the place where we shall be spending the rest of our lives. It has both importance and immediacy .. . I am very confident of a successful trip.\

Pagel CONCORDIENSIS, Jan. 18, 1972 Editor-in-Chief Louis S. Snitkoff Features Editor Matthew Swartz Acting Sports Editor Mark Mindel Photography Editor Dave Conrey News Editor Howard Stone Asst. Managing Editor Gail W. Goodman Contributing Editors William Holleran Mike Meserole Peter Dickerman Managing Editor Doug Wong Business Manager Joseph P. Achenbaum Nation~tl Advt. Manager M.ark Shulman Subscription Manager Michael Hurley · STAFF: Jim Smith, Jim Rostenberg, Chris Mandeville, Frank DeLucia, Les Goldman, Rosemary Rice, l>on Kaplan, Rita M«lrandi;·Barbara McDonald, Patty Sipe; Richard Kern, AI Reisch, Joe Monkofski, George S. Bain, Jody Saslow, Charles .Long, Tim Cain. An Open Let~er ' · To The Student Body Upon considering Mark This is, however, only my own . · . Caven's open letter to the opinion, anc;l . quite. rightfully of I . think l sh~ conclude this president, faculty, and no grea!er relevance than that of le~ter by statmg,. although administration of Union Collt)ge Mr. Coven who, _as a fellow unfortunately not bemg a'ble te in the latest issue of student, has neither a more nor prove, that the average student at Concotdietlsis, I was most · less important voice on this Union College, even after having amused by the sharp contrast campt~s than myself. My purpose informed himself of the facts of between his apparently well in Writing thi~ letter, though, is Union College politics by reading constructed' argument that not to express this opinion, but a letter snch as Coven's, simply students should \realize the place to make a few. observations d'Oes not view the administration (they) are expected to fulfill ;concerning the existence of the as his !ldvetsary. . . Published Tuesdays and Fridays durmg the school year by the studen( body of Union College, Schenectady, N.Y., National' Advertising Representative, National Educational Advertising .Service, Inc., College Publishers Representative, 360 Lexington Ave., N. Y .C. Editorial off tee; Old Gym, Unioq College. Publication Office. The World' Publications, 771 State Street. $chenecQt.d)l, N.Y. 123()7, 346-2356. Entered in the Schenectady post office as Second Class Mail Matter. Subscription 20 cents a copy.$8 a year delivered anywhere in the United States. J within the (Unil.>n College) \community\. of stud.ents. that.· He could really. care less community,\ and the realities of COven seems to believe in and about whether tl;le a,c~ student life at Union College that ex:pects to \join together\ and tions of the administration are make a mockery of Coven's fttlfiU its tightfUl place. equitable or not, unless they statements. Mr. Coven depicts To begin With, I must say that directly affect him, and they life at this school as an the student . body for the J;nost almost never do. However, in a \adversary relationship\ between part is a beterogenous admixture 11ense the students already have students and administration, of more or· less immature and much mote power than they rather than. the '\community\ that divided young people whose seem to realize, because it is they: he believes Should exist. As Mr. personalities have not• developed and not the administration that Coven seems to feel that Within to· a significant degree beyond have created the intellectual and the\Union College Cemmunity\ that of the higb school or prep social atmQsphete at Union, and there should ideally exist a state school students they ()nee were. I although they might not of equality between the role hasten to add that on tfte basis ()f currently have the privilege. of played by students and thlit of all relevant criteria, I include walking into President Martin's administrators, l shall not expect myself as . a member of that office at anY time a~d' £eJlm» him him to be particularly surprised group. Umon Gollege students how he should run the co.{tege, or upset that this response should are for the most part immature they ~n ruin the p(:)sitiorl · not be made by an unequal student because the college environment only of President Martin as a rather than by one ·of those to protects them.· from the realities college administrator but of Not Just Talk The Inter-Nation Simulation condi.t_cted by Professor Norman Walbek this past weekend-represents one of the few examples on this campus of an attemr!tt to d.O something more than just talk about relevance in the ·educational process. Practical experience, as most educational th~erists agree, is an. essential component of learning. Yet this is precisely the component which is most notably absent from courses here. Except for the Comprehensive Education projects which require a term of fieldwork, there is almost no opportunity for participating or even observing the outside world in any .meaningful way, short of dropping out for a term to do something besides college. The technique ·Of simulation is by no means a panacea for the problem, but the overwhelmingly favorable response of the students who gave up a large part of their weekend to participate does indicate that there is a desire for something more meaningful in the way of educational expenence. The recently released report of the Engineering Department is a valuable step in the right direction. Originally planned as a reorganization of interrelated courses to present a more attractive picture for prospective engineering students, the result was the development of a wide range of interdisciplinary programs focused on producing graduates with the wide scope of knowledge and skill necessary to deal with the increasingly complex problems which face the world. This should serve as an impetus to everyone in the college community to broaden their view of what a valuable education should consist of. It is hoped that other departments will follow the lead of Engineering in dropping disciplinary parochialism, adopting a wider view of the interrelationship of courses officially classified in different departments, and creating new, exciting programs that would instill a vitality in the educational process which at present seem to be missing. · - H.S. • TUTORING AND GUfDANCE~ SINCE1938 • I Whom his letter was specifically and responsibilities of life in the everybody whose livelihood addressed. outside world, and because either depends upon the well-being of I shall begin. my rebuttal by their parents or the government Union College by not fulfilling stating flatly that I do not ~gree have relieved them of the their .respon~ibHities. to with Mr. Coven's concept of the financial burden borne by most •themselves · as students, thus role of the student in college life. adUlts in our society. I fully making Union College a failure Coven views the optimum college realize that a significant group of as an educational institution and environment as a democratic individual students at this college giving those Who now so community in which students not do carry these responsibilities, generously support the college only have the right of free speech but they are a decided minority and give · it a tenuous claim to and disagreement with and neither Mr. Coven nor existence r,.o further reason to do administration policy, but also a myself is one of them. I must also so. By taking their grievances share of the governing power say that I do not accuse either into \the streets,\ as Coven equal to that of the , the government or students' 'suggests, the students would not administration, including the parents of a misjudgement in only be jeopardizing the power to overrule the decisions deciding to support the students, existence of the college in a of any administrator and to as they feel they are making an practical sense and minding the \evaluate\ him in such a manner investment which will reward business of those who are quite as to jeopardize his postition as them with a class of citizens willing to mind it themselves, but an ad.ministrator should they prepared to meet the intellectual would also be neglecting ·their consider his actions and beliefs to challenges of mankind•s future. It own responsibilities, and be incorrect. It is my belief that is thus both unavoidable and demonstrating through such a the role of students in a college is forgivable that college students method of reacting to frustration to learn; to take advantage of the are immature. . . that they . are indeed immatq.re, educational opportunities .offered The many factors that dtvtde thus provmg that they are not to them, often at little or no cost, the Union College student body qualified to . handle the .power by the college. As students must also not be overlooked. The they so desperately crave. ~ should be primarily, although most di~isive f~c~or .. ~mong John Emmerling, '73 certainly not to the d·etriment of students. ts the disstmilanty of the interests of the student body backg_rou~ds among them. . As and the college as a whole, 'Am~nca .~~ not a h_omoge~eous concerned' with· their own growth soctop~llttcal entlt~ e1th·er as individual mature citizens economically or ethmcally, no administratio~ of the college: college_ hoping to pr~~de equal To the .Editor: although certainly of interest to educa~wnal. opporturuhes to all On behalf of the Coffeehouse them, is not and sheuld not be Amencans can expect to have a proletariat and the general their responsibility. It is the homogeneo~s student body. masses who attend each week, I responsibility of administrators, Every dtfferent. type of would like to . thank out-go~g who are considered qualified for develop1nental expenence creates manager . Paul Delfin. for a JOb d I d · th · 't' its own set of values in a person 1 well done. In the past couple of an are p ace m err post tons · . . . . . ' years the c · ff-eeh . h s (H'-w by people who; if I may have the and. the approXimate average .of . • Q. • ouse a. t:t•o .n d 't t b r k two years of college life from a two-btt operation m au aCl Y o e teve so, now . . . · · Bronner House to · · N tt more about what they are doing expenenced by the typical Un10n M . fi.- .. a\\. ,c.'! C U t d t · t · t emonal \ 1asco - w -· tlie - than the average student, due to o ege s u en . 1s no gomg o ___ •• . . . . ~ ,-;:.~ th · · d · 1 t profoundly alter those values It round until It fmally found 1ts e1r excee mg y grea er · · · h ·· Old Ch 1 h: · · • · 'ft t.h. ls is thus illoaical to expect a group ome m ape w ere .It exoenence 1 o no mg e e. co· · · · · 1 · t · · · ·t d h of people of such varied P ays J a capaCI Y crow eac socioeconomic backgrounds to week. . . ' ~ . . ' · LETT'ER MCAT- OAT LSAT -ATGSB. Inter-Nation Simulation join together in an~ ~omm~n . Althoug~ ~~ul has .. dtsavowed cause. Furthermore, It 1s qu14: his responstbili~y. for . any debts, easily observable that the student hassles,. or mustctans mct;!I'red by body has spontaneously divided the lJ. Coll. <;o~eehouse, he has itself into different subgroups, or not severed ~Is ttes completely, as cliques, whose members try to he has graciously consent~ to conform to the values and styles cont1nue to help scrape Jelly of those cliques and look donuts .off the floor after each GRE * Preparation for tests required for admission to graduate and profes- sional schools *Six and twelve session courses * Small groups *Voluminous material for home study prepared by experts in each field *Lesson schedule can be tailored to meet ind~vidual needs. Lessons can be spread over a period of several months to a year, or for out of town students, a period of one week Continued from Page 1 during the course of the action. At the end of eac'l year, time · stops while the \ 'idators, an outside group of observers, check . calculations and decide how well the country has done. This validator satisfaction indicator is built into the game to represent public opinion and it serves as one of several determinents of a government's continued office- holding. • Opportunity for review of past lessons via tape at the center This · was the third time that INS has been run at Union, Special Compact Courses during .... having been used by Professor Weekends - lntersessions ·Byron Nichols and Professor SummerSessions Walbek last year. Walbek hopes STANLt;Y H. KAPLAN to use it every year, at least once, EDUCATIONAL CENTER LTD. instituting it as a stable part of 1&75. e ... 18th s•·m. a.- .. '\ , , §JI· . . the ;in~rc;>dtJctory political science 1212) 336--5300 :W . , curri_cult~~-~ , .ll~ .. feels . that it (516) 538-c!l$5 ·· · . • pro~4~fl .. ~a~lf~~le. e~penence for DAYS. EVENINGS, WEEKI;NDS · SfUderttS Since lt aUOWS them tO Branches In priueipal cities In u.s. actually play the roles coitlprising '!'M Tatoruw Sdool wi~ta tit~ Nali011wiM R,u,.,_ . the international s)lstem. In ~- .l,. 'f. .I 1 , • I I • ;;; lo>ll\ -~·~..,~•t·.;.\- ·-.,. ..._.,_..,! Walbek's view, \the chief value of tf'!e simulation is that it gives students the opportunity to bridge the gap between theory and practice. It is one thing to sit back in a classroom and speculate about how the world can be improved and quite another to actually be able to do something about it When given the opportunity.\ This became especially clear when a war broke out during the second simulation year, on Saturday morning. What W albek hopes to instill in the students is a feeling that \there ate real difficulties in creating a world system which can e:xist peacefully, with all nations prospering. But efforts must be made toward this end because; as ·the· si'mu,lation clearly demons~ratedj ; i~i~f.national tension and the threat of nuclear w~r . ar¢ prominent pal.is of the world tYJtcm as it-stands now.\ . . . \ : .. -~ .., ! disdainfully upon those on the performance. . . . outside. If this social divisiveness We would like to w1sh Paul the is the natural tendency of Union b~st .of luck as he_ goes o? to College students, how then can btgger an~ better thmgs ... btgger anybody expect the cooperation debts, . btgger. hassles, and of any large number of them -on frustrated thesbtans. any crucial problem, such as· that Jeff Alifanz Mgr. u~ Coli. Coffeehouse of administ!!ring the college? SPECIAL SALE CLOSING OUT MANY ITEMS IN OUI STUDENT· Y'OUN& MEN'$ DEPT. Sizes 36 to 42 . ENTIRE' STOCk SUITS • SPORT COATS SLACKS. (W oilits 33-3-t;.36} lndudiH Now Double Knits , • ..,_.......,...._ and Cor. '. ~~~ro. ys .. • . · OUTEIWEAI J.Y.I.YE ... w~~~C.:t . JACKETS • COATS hmails Brands 11.3 . Q£1!. ... :' _ _ 31~·8T~TE ... ST\?·AT M,IE .. ILVD. 'f; ·. :~F. . •: ' OP~N 111tJRSDAYTIL9P.M. .,,, · 1 nu PARKING·~ amiNo sTOaE ' .. _. - ... - ' . .. · . ·-~· ...... ( ~ ·~ 1 1 ( i 1 . ]

to at of ng .c~ ey a ve 11;1 a e a , CONCORDIENSIS, Jan. 18, 1972 Page 3 The T wetUe. Year • Trip by MIKE MES;EROL£ Governmental Honesty Is Real Election· Issue A shade over twelve years ago, in the late fall of 1960· when John Kermedy was only President-elect and Pete Rozelle was in his rookie year as commissioner of the Nation,al Football League, the Pallas Cowboys wrapped up their first NFL season ever with a spectacularly unsuccessful .record of0-11-l. Guided by former New York Giant defensive· coach Tom ~ndry, . wh9 WI\& ,jn bis Jirst head coaching job, and led by L. G. Dupre on offense and Jerry Tubbs on defense, the Cowboys, who were in the Western Division .in. those days, were pathetic. One of . the few bright spots was a kid out of SMU named Don Meredith, who !!bared qU-arterbacking duties with the p in:t-sized Eddie LeBaron and was destined for certain stardom although Howard (]osen had yet to enter his life. . .. : · . l.'P.~. Cowboys weren~t alone in :··)~t~' n'Qisery that year, .however. ·- Ati :uppity cotlectjon of . masochistic nlillionaires, led by Lamar Hunt and Sud Adams, .had .challenged the NFL establishment Vlith a league of their own, the American Football League, and while the NFL kingpins ·chUckled, the AFL fmished out its maiden season with some old has-been named George Blanda leading the Houston Oilers · over the Los Angeles Chargers, 24-16. · The Cowboys may have been winless, but at least they were of a strong and healthy family, and there was every reason to expect the newly-born club to improve. On the other hand, the scribes of doom were draping the AFL cradle in black crepe. Seven years and millions of t1ilent war dollars later, the lordly NFL and the kid who wasn't supposed to survive mergc::d in one big happy ·marriage, and announced the impending birth of Super Bowl I, in 1967. Also born in '67, but much less heralded, were the Miami Dolphins, who were midwifed by ex-Detroit Lion head coach George Wilson and anchored oh defense by the great Wahoo McDaniel. By then, of course, the Dallas Cowboys were contenders, and fueled by a . , In it~. attempt to ,acqu~nt this CllJURU~' with pressing problems and · trends in the study of ib:te~~uitional relations, the Inte~national Relations Club will conduct the first in its series of informal discussion groups this Thursday at 7:30 p.m. in ·Humanities 03. The format of these meetings will be very unstructured, with only a short introductory presentation by some faculty member and/or student. The purpose of these meetings will be to foster some sort of independent thinking on the part of all participan.ts in the hope of creating awareness in their minds to the problems, complexities and the challenges involved in the study of international relations. By these meetings it is hoped some concrete suggestions will arise to improve the study of international relations on this campus along with the hope of allowing dedicated individuals a path to express and implement their ideas. · This 'thursdaY's topic will center around a discussion of the psychological dimensions of foreign policy~ f'or anyone wishing to get involved in viable and dynamic djscussions touching on proble~s vital.to· the· fuli.t~:e existence of mankind. this by LES GOLDMAN we1,1lth of talent, . Landry's microphone inteiViewing compute~'$, and tex Maule's Thomas, who digs interviews like unending articles -.in Sports the Pope .digs birth control. There has been much talk of · the Pentagon Papers. In fact, if . . . \DJJane you were great out · · h IUustrated, . ~hey were rea~y to th tod . A lot of .p· eople were late concerning what the issues honesty were an tssue m t e TlPY.t challenge Vtnce Lombardi an. d ere ayb d · d will be in next November's election, the Democrats would h G B p ke t h impressed Y your spee ··· o· election. Many say that Vietnam have to try. to over~ome those t e ld. reen. ay . ac rs or t e you think you're faster than you will be the issue. Others say it documents, JUSt as Ntxon would wor . . . b ~· h \A d B . th s · B· · .J· ·R appear to es will be the economy. The one have to oversom_e t e n erson ut .e u,per ow . oman \E. 'd tl .\ remarked h · · · 1 · · d t · ·I f · vt en Y • topic that should be· discussed, Papers.\ Candtdates .sue as nurnera s starte o e~ca ate. rom Thomas, whose reply ·broke up M k ld I to H, then to IV and ~ttll no th . · Wl'th laughs at the but probably won't be, is honesty Humphrey and us 1e wou ... · f D ·n A d hl·I th e room · in gover. nm. ent. The rea.sori itl have to make some stro.ng s1gn o a .as.· n w · e e ·.b. · · · ed Brookshire and ~am to beat was .no longer em a~rass . . .. . won't be discussed is becausei disavowals of '68 camprugn Green Bay, the team that always · astorushment ~hat Thomas could most of the candidates can be speeches. got beat was the Cowboys. Last \'actuall~ verb~lize. . . faulted on this issue. .This same problem of honesty year in Super Bowl V, they All mall, tt was a pretty dull Nixon, Whose old image was exists for John Lindsay ~f ~e\: finally. made it only to lose to super Sunday, not at all the farce one of the man who you would York. The Knapp Commtsslons Baltimore on a last minute field that occurred last y~r, but a far not buy a car from, tried to bearing on police corruption goaL ·This ~eason, after Landry cry from the excitement that . change his image in '68. While he revealed either that there were finally decided io chuck his two . hallmarked the Jets.-Colts game might have succee~~ up to now some serious blunders on. the quartetback system, going with four years ago. Sttll, after all (and that is questionable), one part of highly placed members of Roger s~ubach. and letting · tho~e years, . Dallas had finally wonders what is going to happen the mayor's staff, or that some Craig Morton ride pine. the ~on, . and . m . the post-g~e now, after Jack Anderst>n's people are .not revealing all t~at Cowboys blew 'past everybody in mtemew wtt~ the most valuable re.cent disclosures. Anderson they know. The m~yor, as chtef nine straight games for a cra<;k at player~ CBS Pat . Su,mmerall revealed from classified executive of the ctty, must be Super Bowl VI. . . . . asked !toger Staubach what he documents that the American held responsible for this. . This time they wo]l, XXIV to . ~as gomg to do to celebrate the governmental policy in the recent • It is obvious, on the nattonal JI:I. Taking on the Miami Vlctory. Indo-Pakistani war was quite · level, that the government has D.olphins in the first expansion different from What the the right to withhold so~e team match..:up \in Bowl history. \Oh my family and my wife government told the press our information from the pubh~, · Dallas crushed\ them with near- and her family are going to policy was. such as troop deploymen~s t.n perfection in a game that didn't celebrate at the team function This kind of double-talk time of war. The real question 1s produce the advertised ''Battle of later tonight,\ said the mild- approach to the Aq1erican people why the governmen! m~st New Orleans.\ mannered quarterback is not that unusual, as we saw in continually hide and dtstort. tts After the game, the Dallas Twelve years ago, nobody had · :, ... methods for developing policy. locker room wasn't the cork- the time to ask Eddie LeBaron Actually it isn't the government popping, champagne-slurping what he was doing after any TH·f ·PEAN.UJ that is withholding the scene that usually accompanies game. Five years ago, nobody . · . . . . ' . ·. information but individuals who world takeovers. Instead, it was had the heart to ask Don SJQ·R.E are faced with the same problems more of a sedate, \it's about Meredith what he planned to do any persons in a large time\ atmosphere: Landry was after the second Green Bay loss. bureaucracy have to eventually smiling (honest), and accepting And four years ago, well, nobody Featuring, face: flow to hide their own trophies and congratulations had the nerve to ask Joe Namath PlANTERS .HOT ROASTED mistakes. from Commissioner Rozelle and what he Was doing before the . PEANUTS In any event, there will the guy who lost the Presidency g~a~m~e:· ... _________ ......;·~-=· ===========~ probably be very little discussion in 1960; Bob Lilly and Chuck · · FOR LIQUQR & WINE of honesty in government by tile Howley, the oldest Cowboys in candidates in the coming point of service, exuded Try JAKE LIP STEIN'S presidential election. But don•t be satisfaction and relief; and up on surprised, no matter who is top of the equipment trunks, 464 State Street elected, if there are more Duane Thomas, the gifted Dallas \Pentagon\ and \Anderson\ back who made a costly fumble ' FR 4-1888 oapers. in the title game last year but ran for 95 yards and a touchdown Sunday, was being questioned by CBS announcer Tom Brookshire. Brookshire, just. to bring this whole thing full cir-cle, was a defensive back with the Philadelphia Eagles in 1960 when the Eagles, behind Chuck Bednarik and Norm Van Brocklin, beat Green Bay 17-13 for the NFL championship. Twelve years later he was back in the winner's locker room, only . on the other side of the program sponspred by the IRC will afford you this possibility. • * • * The next Senate meeting is at 7:00 in HU 115 on T1,1es :Jan. 18. The Schenectady P. Y.E. Club will meet on January 20, at 7:30 p.m., in the P.Y.E. Office, located in the basement of Silliman Hall. The P.A.C.E. project, campus recycling, and future · educational programs will be discussed. All members along with anyone interested in becoming a member are urged to attend. Will anyone who has ftlrn equipment from the film workshop please return it immediately to the Filnt Project c/o Art Department (i.e. in the Art building). * * \' * Union College Coffee House presents Kurt Anderson and Don Rapalje at Old Chapel this Friday, Jan. 21, at 8:30. As usual, the coffee and donuts are free. Admission is SO¢. • * ... • All students who wish to spend Fall Term, l972·in· .F.ranc:e, must submit completed,aj;ptitatrons to Professor Le Clerc in the · . Humanities Building by Friday, J'anuary21. THE UNITED NATIONS EDUCATIONAL, SCIENTIFIC AND CULTURAL ORGANIZATION a specialized agency of the United Nations dedicated to peace $6 value $1.50value $ 5value all for only $6 . . ;::::::-~-:::::;:::::::: ahd THE STUDENT AID SOCIETY . a non-profit non-political organization dedicated to helping students to help themselves offer ~TUDV ABROAD a New l9th Edition • .Paris, France, 1972 • ·Each copy is trilingual • 644 Pages in English, French and Spanish The most complete scholarship directory in the world lists more than 234,000 scholarships, fellowships, loans and grants in more than 129 countries or territories! Tells who is'eligible, fields of study, financial assistance, .HOW, WHEN AND WHERE TO APPI,.. Y! Reflects the latest scholarship approach costed by financial need! VACATION STUDY ABROAD • Each copy is trilin§ual in English, French and Spanish More and more Americans are flocking overseas for summer vacations, and an increasing proportion is young Americans! With the price war now raging on overseas airfares, record-breaking numbel's of young Americans will surge across Europe this summer! VACATION STUDY ABROAD tells how qualified people will go free! Provides information on short courses, seminars, summer schools, scholarships and travel grants available each year to students, teachers and other young people afld adults planning to undertake study or training abroad during their vacations. These data were provided by some 500 organizations in 54 countries! STUDENT AID SOCIETY membership dues. Services offered: .. Scholarship information service. Answers questions concerning scholarships worldwide! • Travel service. Plans interesting tours to exotic lands! • Reference Service. \Your reference service saved me much. valuable time which I put in on other subjects. Result: 5 As and 1 B.\ Drafts term papers, essays. book reports, theses, etc. frequently using primary sources available only in the Library of Congress! We do not actually write the finished assignment since that would deprive the student of valuable educational experience and defeat the very purpose for writing for oneself in the first place. We will provide background information and bibliographies which rank with such tools as the College Outline Series and encyclo- paedia reference services available only with expensive sets. Limit of one draft at small additional charge, per semester per student in good standing. We cannot answer any question which we feel requires the advice of a doctor, lawyer, architect, engineer, or other licensed practitioner, nor can we advise concerning your financial investments. Neither can we undertake market research or surveys or provide home study courses. CN, Ann Arbor,. Mich \The Vantage Point\ is a book put together by 5 ghost writers and edited by 'i..BJ. Your reference seniice is almost like my own personal ghost writer.\ LC, Gainesville, Fla. \the 3 refereffCe books Qf W/J~h;·OVBfY $tUdeilt ,_ ('8_1'$(1,1?(1/ C(I(Ji,,, shl 'StutfY Abroad,_ II goDrf dft::tiONity tlnd th'&UIIrtl$.1 fiOt. $10,0011 4-'y•r Jf:holllflhip ftom . £' study~, . AR ....... OIIIf. .~--------~-~~---~------- . . I I Student Aid Society, PO Box 39.042 · 1 :Friendship Station. Washington, D.C. 200161 1 Gentl~men:, l.en~rese'$6 for.Study Al!road, f .: Vac~t(on Stf.!dy Abroad and annual dues. : tName 1 , f ~ddress . , , 1 I Oity. State • · · · ·· Zip ~ ·~~~~~~---~~--~~-~--~~~-~ ..

Page 4 CONCORDIENSIS, Jan. 18~ 1972 Concordy Sports Garnet Cagers Club. Utica, 68-57 . · . - . . . , . points ~ while holding Uttca by BILL HOLLERAN speed and qlll~kness as the at the half, 33-27, but Utlcas the Garnet, .and he and Bill scoreless over.. a seven minute The Garnet ho?psters parlayed ~utchme!l ra~ r,mgs around the Dave Owen bucketed a field goal c;ar.mody got the _Garnet· at~ack sp1;1n~ The Garnet wt;re balanced scormg w1th an PIOneers m _butldmg a _17-5 lead. at the outset of ~he second s~n~a tolhng once agam. Substitute dominating, 65-49, before Uttca aggressive defense to upend an Bacher htt two strrught baskets to move the Pwneers to wtthm forward Tom Coinbs als.o added closed things up somewhat in the improved Utica College five 68- and Walker added another two four. . . . life, as he came (,)ff the bench to fmaltwo minutes. . 57 on Saturday night, before one in a streak w~ch sav: the Garnet Things got worse . before they can a long jumper over the ·Balance ·was the keynote in of the largest crowds ever to reel off 12 strrught pomts. got better, even though two tenacious Utica zone , defens~ Union is 890 rfng l)ffort on witness a basketball contest ~n ~oul trouble slow~ down the straight hoops by Bacher and from the right corner. Combs Saturday night. Tedisco was high Memorial Fieldhouse. The wm Umon onslaught nottceably later Walker helped to keep the also drew cheers from the throng man for the Dutchmen, netting was Unions third ip a row and in the half, as Jim Tedisco left Pioneers at bay. The Gamet's when he added a ~eautiful tap-jn. 14 tallies, but Bacher finished· seventh in nine starts. . the ga~e wit~ three personals ~t cold-shooting troubles were The good-.shooting sophomore one point behind him at 13. Mike The packed house was ecstatic the ftve mmute m~rk. Bdl further compounded. when played weU off the boards, Doyle, Walker, and Carmody as Tom Bacher and Geoff Carmody also had ptcked. up Tedisco lef~ the game wtth. four hauling down four rebounds in totaled 12, 10, and nine points Walker helped the Ga~et bolt three fouls before the ha,lfended. fouls. ~nd .JUSt over I3 mmutes his brief stint. . respectively. into an early commandmg lead. After the Garnet 8 ea~ly remammg m the contest. From that pomt on the Utica also showed balanced The Utica players were big, but domination,_the.Pi?neers ralhed Chuck A.bba, Tedisco's Dutchmen .totally stifled the scoring, with Owen leading the in the early moments they to make thmgs hot for . Coach replacement m the bac~court, Pioneers, reeling (,){f another way with 16 points. Doug Knapp :>bowed that they clearly lacked Gary Walter's charges. Umon led provided a much needed lift for scoring skein - this one 13 and Arnie Westervelt each , chipped in with 12 markers. 0 F ll E . 0 J ' T d 1 The Dutchmen took theit 7-2 SPORTS PR · <. · • : . n 1m e tsco :u~.·v;~.J~;:: ':::~·~~~~ by MARK MINDEL With this issue, Concordy Sports is initiating a new column, Sports Profile; which will take an in-depth look at a different· key Union College athlete each Week. The sports department feels that the co-captain of the '71-'72 basketball squ.ad, Jimmy Tedisco, deserves the initial review. Tedisco graduated from Schenectady's Bishop Gibbons High School in 1968. At 5'7\ and as one of the most prolific scorers in the Capital District, Tedisco received letters and feelers from over 20 colleges, including North Carolina, Syracuse, and Ma.rquette. Why did he choose Union? \Because of (then) Coach Chris Schmidt,\ according to Jimmy, and perhaps because of the added excitement and ch~llenge in playing in front of a hometown crowd. Jimmy bowed out in style from high school. H~ scored a career- high 55 points in his last scholastic performance and was honored for this feat with a selection to Sport$ Illustrated's \Faces In The Crowd\. TEDISCO'S RECORDS Career points - 1,167 field goals- 414 free throws - 339 Season points- 652 field goals - 239 free throws- 174 average - 29.6 assists - 117 Game.· points - 49 (vs. Utica) field goals- 19 (vs. Drew) free throws-- 19 (vs. Utica) assists- 12 (vs. Drew) At Union he has been phenomenal. Ask anyone on campus what athletic performer has thrilled him more than Tedisco and you are sure to get a lot of blank stares. Ask Coach Gary Walters about Jimmy, and he will tell you oT his competence in shooting, passing, ball-handling, defense, leading the press, or just his plain ability as a floor general and leader. But it is not just that he scores so much or passes so well that will make the Garnet Jans remember Jimmy Tedisco. What it is, is hard to describe, but deals with the spectator's incredibility that the shots Jimmy takes, he makes. It is watching that long jumper that you feel he used all his energy to' put up, bang home. Even more, it is watching in awe as he drives, twists, and twirls his way past two or three taller through · the nets. More often than not a referee's whistle will signify an upcoming three point play. ~ Watch. tP:e: fans, watch the bench. 'l'heif reactions show how much J~rpmy wi~ be-_ missed next year.· · • Larry Serr.eU, · a· local sports ~' ' walk out swearing that he has gotten everything out of himself that is physically possible. Tedisco · is the strange·st ballplayer that I have ever ·watched.\ All the honors bestowed upon Tedisco ate far too many to list. He was named ECAC (DIV Til) JIM TEDISCO, who already holds every single game, fieldhouse, season and career scoring and assist mark in the 72yedr history of basketball at Union College. writer and basketball expert has Soph of the year in 1970. He seen many talented ball players. was also selected as an Academic Even to Serrell, Tedisco is hard All-American, and named to the to descrioe. Small All~America 2nd Team \After watchi·ng Ted- that season. The following year isco .... · he's incredible, you he was selected as the ECAC get the feeling that every snot Is (DIV III) Player of the Year and taken at maximum range. You named to the first team Small All Restaurant 535 Not't Street defenders, while throwing in a . spinning, arching shot which rips. ~~t/.>.1~~.....-?\>U'!l~~~»v.:»·e.Qle.Qo<.Q\>~~~ -America. He has received several Ali- Tourney selections, and . was named MVP of the Capital District Tourney last season. Over the past two seasons, Coach Gary Walters has worked hard with Jimmy, especially on two points: defense and offensive teamwork. Where it shows of course is not in Jimmy's offensive tough Engineers of Renrlselaer: Poly. RPI will be · seeking to avenge last year's. 74-61 Union win in this, the 114th meeting between the two teams since 1899. Frosh_ Hoop Glides Past\ Albany J.C. statistics, but in the team record. by FRANK DeLUCIA And no one has to point out how In a marathon contest which instru~ental Jim~y was in . saw an unquestionable record set leadenng last years cagers to a for fouls by both squads the record 18 victories.. . . Freshmen Garnet hoo~sters Off the court Jtmmy IS .qmet: slipped by Albany Junior College A m~mber of ~he Chi Pst on Saturday night, 94-87. fraterill:ty, alon~ With teammates With the Dutchmen breezing and fnends Mike Doyle, Tom to a 15-3 lead, the affair took on Bacher, and r~omma~e ~ob a less than exciting, yet Pezzano, a~ nvals m htgh conventional aspect. As usual sch';lol), Tedtsco hal! been known, Charlie Gugliotta and Jack at times to keep the whole group Comerford were busy clearing in stitches. the boards with Comerford Yet he is very sincere. He hitting-a ga~e-high 20 points and wanted the_paper to repor~ that Gugliotta throwing in 16. the bench ts one of t~e b1ggest Gugliotta hauled down a team reas~:ms f?r !he tea~s succe~s. leading 16 rebounds . while Thell\. dedicatiOn,_ therr hustle m Comerford grabbed eight. practtce, and thetr suppo:t when Midway through the first half man~ would only thmk of J.C.A. rallied, narrowing the gap pl!lymg, has he!ped make a to 28-24, but good ball control Wim~er. out of U~on., . by Kevin Crawfo-rd and Hts Idea of a best athlete. IS percentage shooting by Rich one such as Bob Pezzano! semor Maisano retained a 43-36 Garnet co-captain., Pezzano, semor. ~o- half time lead. captain. Pezzano exemphf1.es The second half offered dedication .. He :pl.ays rarely, b17t spectators a lengthy ·and he's there m spmt. An? that 18 -sometimes laughable spectacle. what makes the dtfference Union wen the foul shooting between a good team and a co~test 25-lS but lost the inner winner. struggle to sit down players 4 to What are ~is post- 1 gr~duatbio 1 n 1 6. plans? If he IS not P a)llng a Lifting the Dutchmen to \'a• 2-1 next year, (he has received feelers mark, the victory belonge-d' to from the pros), he would like to superior Freshmen foul shoothig go into coaching. And if he can and seven Gugliotta assists. The . teach half as well as he performs; yearlings will meet R.P.I. tonight. watch out! PLAYER Tedisco, Jim Bacher, Torn Doyle, Mike Walker, Geoff Abba, Chuck Carmody, Bill Combs, Tom Others Team Opponent Basketball Stats. G FG FGA % FT FTA % Reb. Asst. Pts. Avg. 9• 63 152 42% 45 65 69% 23 36 171 19.0 9 55 108 5.1% 28 36 77% 63 3 138 15.4 9 34 75 45% 34 57 60% 88 7 102 11.4 9 39 83 47% 17 26 65% 61 6 95 10.5 9 26 74 35% 14 22 64% 39 6 66 7.4 7 20 43 47% 15 22 68% 11 13 :55 '7.9 4 8 14 57% 0 0 O% 13 1 16 4.0 \I 11 30 36% 8 18. 44% 37 4 30 4.3 9 250 570 44% 161 246 65% .376-41.5 80 661 73.4 9 230 595 39% 131 207 63% \377.·41.7 48 591 65.6 LUIGI'S RESTAURANT SPECIALIZING IN Italian • American Food U 25 BARRETT ST. Schenectady Dl 6-9744 . ' ........... . Enjoy Sizzling Ste~ks and Chops Visit Our Coc~tail Bor ~ - v sl c ' in M~ Tu me' cha shi: we1 agf dm sch of ad' wa th~ COl sys pre ad· wil SUJ of ho re! stt the ye; pu ac· su rel co co sy st1 ur th Sf pr St in sc w, di he c~ w at be o: bl tl a: 0 Ci c:

. . · · Vol. 101, No. 23 Founded at Union ·College 1877 SCHENECTADY, · NEW YORK . JANUARY 21, 1972 Price Twenty Cents The Tenure Oue.stion: Two Faculty Opinions by PEtER DICKERMAN security - the establishment of an academic reputation, often through published works ahead of involvement with the College community. Professor Jonas notes that Union has never maintained a tenure limit in the past, and the present system creates insecurity among, untenured faculty. Marty Sherman addr,essing the Studem Senate There are actually two levels on which the current tenure problem is being discussed, and in gaining some knowledge of each of these aspects an observer begins to realize the problem of the 60 percent te·nure limitation imposed by the Trustees and enforced by the administration. Additionally, there is the broad philosophical- question concerning the . value of the t.enure system, · and the advisability of possible changes in the system ..• While Jonas describes the AAUP position statement as an attempt to \keep the door open\ to alternatives to the current impasse, he firmly rejects compromises concerning the basic nature of tenure. ln his words, it would be \a 'great mistake\ to alter the · tenure system, for this would ha·rm rather than aid faculty security. He regards tenure as the major pillar protecting academic freedom, allowing the professor to write and speak that which he believes (within certain limits of propriety) without fear of dismissal. He further claims that tenure does not really protect the incompetent professor, in that his performance is held accountable by manipulation of salaries and promotions. An incompetent professor could also be dismissed by means of the ·~due cause\ prov1s1on of the AAUP guidelines, but this is very rarely exercised. The dominant fear expressed by Professo·r Jonas and other faculty members is that - photo by Steve Ente Senate Discusses ~ Calendar Changes byTIM CAIN the new calendar; it would eliminate the \hanging-around•' period at the end of the summer when everyone else is back at school. The disadvantages of the iu:w calendar were given as the problems that it might cause with students studying abroad during the winter tenrt and the break-up of winter term by Christmas vacation. A proposal was passed by one vote stating that the Student Senate is opposed to the calendar change and urges the Coll,ege Senate to reject the· new calendar at least until a poll is conducted by the Senators of their living units in order to determine· student sentiment regarding any calendar change. A - .. . .. Continued on Page 3 The following consists of the presentation of the views of two well-respected faculty members who, while not directly threatened by the tenure limitation, are deeply concerned with its ramifications. Their opinions are divergent, yet not entirely in 'opposition, and while one could assume that many faculty tend to adhere to one view or the other it would be inaccutat¢: to assert thfft well.;. d~ned divisions of opinion presently exist. Professor Manfred Jon as, ~ C.b!ljf!Il}al) .9L 11.te . Department of History, is a former chapter chairman of the American Association _ of University Professors (AAUP) branch here and a supporter of the AA UP tenure proposal formulated last semester. It is his belief that continuation of the tenure limitation would almost certainly result . in harmful repercussions for the College, in that professors who have no opportunity to attain tenure here are likely (and justifiably so) to place personal With President Dave Robbins in New Y otk, Vice-President Marty Sherman chaired Tuesday'~ S~udent Senate meeting. A proposed calendar change a11d the .possibility of a shift to a master sch~ule system were the main items fr{)m the agenda that were discussed during the meeting. The master schedule sys~em is a new system of course registration. The advantages of this system, as it was explained to the Senate, are that there would be fewer course conflicts than with the present system, and students and professors would know in advance the times tl;l.eir courses will meet. This new sy.stem is also supposed to reduce the number of man-hours and computer- hours spent on course registration. Under this system, stUdents would' list the courses they feel they will be ta:king ne~t year. The registrar wou1d then publish a master schedUle which, according to the course lists submitted by the students, would result in the least m.unber of course conflicts for the up- coming year. Under the present system, it was pointed out, students and faculty do not know until the day classes begin how their classes are scheduled. The Senate overwhelmingly passed a proposal urging the College Senate to take the initial steps in implementing the master schedule system. National Notes: The Draft, Politics! State of Un.ion A proposed calendar change was also brought up and discussed at length during the one- hour meeting. The changes in the calendar would mean that classes would start early in September and the first term would end before Thanksgiving. Two weeks of the winter term would come before Christmas vacation, and the school year would end around May 24. It was pointed out by the supporters· of the calendar change that this calendar would put Union in step with the rest of the colleges in the Consortium, a change that would greatly benefit students wishing to take courses at other schools. This change would also benefit those students in competition for summer employment, and, according to the supporters of by AL REISCH THE DRAFT It is commonly asserted by much of the draft age populace that the selective service system is so complex and secretive that it is almost incomprehensible. Well, a system of draft counselors and legal aid has sprung up to ~unter tl!isM>.r-o,blem. ~here are ttmes, how~~~hen this system is not ·capalil~;.~f -handljng all of the inforinatian necessary to solve a specifi&problem, On such an occasiQh .' . the standard procedure is to. call the local draft board' .and, through asking the proper questions get the desired information. It was on j].lst such an occasion that this reporter came across something that was really astonishing. Simply stated, the date for the lottery that will affect all males horn in calendar year 1953 will be in February and not in July as previously thought. The Schenectady Oraft Board stated that they have known this for quite some time and that they were making no .attempt to conceal the fact. The question that came to mind was why the major papers throughout the country had not publici~ed this fact. It certainly is of great interest and importance to a ~, significant .number of Americans throughout all fifty states and the world, The an!lwer was not forthcoming so after a second call to a draft board (in Boston this time), the decision to publish the facts here. was made. If you have any questions involving general matters in relation to draft procedures, information can usually be obtained from the Schenectady Draft Board. Their phone number is 377-2271; ask for the selective service. If. you have a specific question regarding your draft status it is advisab1e to consult a draft counselor. The Schenectady peace center has such a program. STATE OF THE UNION The annual state of the Union message was delivered to Congress by the President ·yesterday. In an election year in which the incumbent is running for office, one can be reasonably certain that this speech will form the basis for his election platform. The full text of the speech can be found · in today's edition of the New York Times, and little sense wouid be made by Continued 'on Page 3 : evaluatory structures, while perhaps established with the best of intentions, could at some time in the future serve to restrict academic freedom, and there are precedents which reinforce this attitude. Professor Willard Enteman, Chairman of the Department of Philosophy, also disagrees with the administration's handling of the issue; he describes the tenure Continued on Page 3 ACTION· Recruiting Goes O;n, Cutbacks Threatened .R~presentatives of the new agency, ACTION, which includes Peace Corps and VISTA, will make their Spring semester visit to the State College campus on February 10 in the midst of speculation that Peace Corps may have to take a surgeon's knife to itself if Congress does not approve its annual budget request. \A few weeks ago the news media carried a story reporting that Peace Corps was pulling out of some countries and reducing the total number of volunteers abroad by 50 per cent,\ said Seith Kurn, an ACTION representative. ''No 'one is packing his bags yet,\ claims Kurn, \but a lot of people are, understandably, uptight.\ The representative noted that many of the news stories implied that people were already on their way home when, in fact, the Peace Corps had announced plans to make cutbacks if the budget is reduced. The Peace Corps' current fiscal problems came to a head right before Congress took its holiday recess. Unexpectedly, the House set a ceiling on Peace Corps expenditures that effectively cuts, almost in half, the money that the agency has to operate on during the last quarter of the fiscal year. \We're optimistic that the House and Senate will get it together and give us enough money so that people who are in volunteer assignments now overseas will get paid and not have to come home early.' 1 Kurn reported that the issue would be resolved within the next few weeks. Asked about Congress' reasoning behind the proposed cutback, Kurn pointed out that the Peace Corps budget is still a part of the foreign assistance package. \We got caught in the headwind of foreign aid cuts,\ he said. \VISTA's budget hasn't been cut and there's no solid evidence that this is a step in the direction of general reduction of volunteer programs.\ Kutn said that in coming years ACTION would have a budget of its own and not be dependent on the moods of giant parent agencies like State Department, OEO, etc. With that background the representative explained wliy the decision was 111ade to go on recruiting: \First by nature, we're pretty hopeful people. Hopeful! in this case, that Congress will give us the money we need. This isn't just ~ope in a vacuum,\ claims Kurn. \We've honestly been surprised at the public reaction to the - budget cut stories. People keep calling us to tell us that they've done something - written their Congressmen, for example - to express their concern.\ \Second the people we're recruiting now for both Peace Corps and VISTA will start training in the summer and by then We'll b.e operating on our own budget.\ Ironically, the proposed budget cut for Peace Corps comes at a time when enthusiasm for volunteer programs, both Peace Corps and VISTA, is beginning to show again on the college campuses. Kurn said that ACTION recruiting efforts last seme&ter were more successful than any in the previous five years. .Joining Kum at Union will be. Ginger· Getman and George Ulbrich. The representatives are especially interested in talking to math, science, and education majors, although students with other skill backgrounds (particularly agriculture) are also encouraged to stop by the booth, which will be set up in the Library from 9 to 4:30 on Thursday. l J I

' Page 2_ CONCORDIENSIS, Jan. 21, 1972 ~------------~~------~----------~---- Editor-in~ Chief Louis S. Snitkt>:. \370-4956 - Features Editor Matthew Swartz Acting Sports Editor Mark Mindel Photography Editor Dave Conrey Asst. Photo Editor Scott Gordon · News Editor Howard Stone Asst. Man11ging Editor Gail W. Goodman Contributing Editors William Holleran Mike Meserole Peter. Bickerman 'Managing Editor · Doug Wong 346~9735 BU$iness Manager Joseph P. Achenbaum Asst. 3usiness Manager Michael Hurley Subscription Managei Thomas J. Conley National Ac:lvt. Manager · Mark Shulman STAFF: Jim Smith, Jim R011tenberg, Chris 1\fandeville, Frank DeLucia, Les Goldman, Rosemary Rice, Don Kaplan, Rita M()randi, Barba.-a McDonald, Patty Sipe, Jeff Weilburg, Bob Johnson, Larn Wharton, Jon P.hilpson, Bill Westheimer, Steve Ente, Richard Kern, AI Reisch; Joe Monkofski, George S.Bain,.Jody. Saslow, Charles Long, Tim Cain. . .. • Published \tuesdays and Friqa,ys <lunng· tl\e ~oliool y~ar by the student' body of U.nion ~ollege, Sch~nectad:(, _N.Y., National Advenising Rep~esentauve, NatiOnal Educational Advertising Service, Inc., College PubliShers Representative, 360 Lexington Ave., N. Y :C. Editorial offtce, Old Gym, Union College. Publication Office, The W()rld Publications, 771 State Street, ~chenectady, N.Y. 12307, .346-2356. Entered in the Schenectady .post office as Second Class Ma.il Matter .. Subscription 20 . cents a copy. $8 a year delivered anywhere in the United States. ~-----~~--~-------------·--------~J To the Editor, • also the most gentle with women. It was called chivalry in those days, and men were respected by their peer-s· by the amount of graciousness· they possessed. Today, that tradition has been passed down to us, and most people wouldn't give it a second thought. In times of war, when people revert to b,arbarism and animalistic practices, all ethics go out the window and women suffer equally with men. The whole world suffers. But this is a God-damn college campus, an enclave of peace in a turbulent world. Here boys and girls are paying $4000 (or, if they're lucky. the college is If s part of what we all Ctre I byMAl'THEW SWARTZ When people decide to analyze rock music (providing they don't mind wasting time sounding intellectually void), it seems fashionable to ponder from whence it carne. (ie. Dylan vs. the Beatles, Bessie Smith · vs. Little Richard, Ludwig van Beethoven · vs. Don McLean). Allow me to pose the composite uncertainty, whether it shall go (if surely we will follow, snapping our bubble gum, copying down lyrics that We flatter with tables such as ••poetry .. , \Gospel\ and \prophecy\ and praying for the . perpetuation of the Woodstock progeny~. Some say that the social conscience of grooved plastic started with Robert Zimmerman singing through his nose about answers swirling about in air currents. For a long time~ many couldn't buy that because of obvious conflicts that · arise concerning record contracts and royalties that make the rich r.icher and alienate those who when the talented subversives ~hink that it really matters. Well, Crosby, Stills and Nash began paying them $4000) each year for the privilege of learning and growing, and developing qualities that they can bring with them when they go into that sick world outside the Union gates. It's bad enough when boys hit each other when they have a precious opportunity to talk things out. Ifs even worse when be has to hit a girl who's physically unequal to him. When he does that. that means he has no balls. He'll never be. a man if he .has to talk with his fists. He'll never be. a man among men if he has to pqnch girls. He'd just be more of a pussy than she is. Name withheld by request composing toe~tapping tunes about modern-day djsasters (ie. Kent State, the. 1968 Democratic Convention in Chicago) the fans, out of exasperation I would presume, started pinning on those ridiculous smile buttons. Flower people have beautiful, · hnght, beatific smiles permanently plastered where all can admire their plastic perseverance. And. those record shop cash register bells became my personal· sad Bells of Rhymney. This summer, a veritable miracle took place irt New York City's Madison Square Garden . A concert designed strictly to raise money for so01e people that undoubtedly have never heard or will ever .hear recorded music in their lives, with musicians that the press (Kite, Rolling Stone) claims set trends and precedents. Musicians that say things people listen to (amazing). You all kMw by now that The Concert for Bangia Desh is an album. From some truly inspired sitar work by Ravi Shankar fBangla Dhun .. although Dick Cavett may consider it bizarre) to Ringo's forgetting the words to It Don't Come Easy, the spectrum of great to poor music · spans over the six sides of this \album in a box.\ I mean, it's got the superstars. George Harrison, Klaus Voorman, · Rin_go Starr, Leon Russell, Billy Preston, Eric Irwin Welber, Associate Executive Director of Toll Transmissions for Bell Laboratories, will present a talk on transmission media and multiplexing on Tuesday evening, January 25, at 7:30 p.m. i!l Bn!o11 -Go!iege Physics_202. Clapton and the grand-daddy of the heart .. stoppers, Bob Dylan, shacking the pants off the peanut gallery with a surprise appearance. Live albums have a tendency to sound a bit like T.V. situation comedies in that the former's applause sounds as canned as the latter's laughter. Not this one. It's as genuine as the true fruit flavor of Hoffman beverages, but without the cardboard' aftertaste. Harrison sings what I consider some of his finest in Wah-Wah, While My Guitar Gently Weeps, and, of course, the incomparable Here Comes the Sun. Mr. Dylan sings though an entire side, including one of my all time favorites, It Takes Alot to LauW~, It Takes a Train t~ Cry. Inevitably, with peaks come. troughs, as any good physics student is aware. But that is pretty subjective. Personally, I think Leon Russell's contributions\ merit melting. But, dear Shelter People, alienation is not IllY intention here. What is my intention, if, as zeb W .. Groggin claims, analysis is not worthwhile? Probably it's to get you to wonder about where th~ five bucks goes each time we buy an album. However, I won't argue with anyone who says I'm bitter about having to send the Southern Poverty Law Center a meager seven-dollars. Monday, January 24, at 3:30 p.m. in SS 115, the History and Political Sciert_ce departments are sponsoring an informal panel featuring Prof. Telford Taylor of Columbia ·university and Prof. Robert Sharlet on the subject of ··w~r ,.Crimes and Military Ju.s.uce. Prof. Taylor is a very emment authority on this subject and \Prof. Sharlet is never uninteresting.\ J. B. Board. * * * * In writing this letter today to publicly express my disgust to an incident which transpired today, I cannot sign my name. In any other circumstance, I would, but unfortunately, I'in actually afraid of being beaten up by somebody. Wow, you'd think I was in junior high again, being menaced by a big ninth-grader who keeps knocki\}g my books from under my arm. But man, this is Union College, that great intellectual community ()[ the Northeast where intelligent young people of all races, religions, and economic backgrounds live peacefully together, united by a bond of mutual respect and the desire to grow intellectually and socially. Who fights in a place like that? . A Union College girl was . beaten up today by a . Union College boy. That's what happened. It doesn't matter whether or not the two fellow classmates were of different ethnic ba<;kground, or even if the girl deserved it. Maybe she stole STRANGE INCIDENT Mr. Welber will discuss the various methods used to transmit phone calls, from the old- fashioned phone wire to space- age satellites. Also, he will show how several calls are transmitted simultaneously by time and frequency multiplexing. The next Senate meeting will be on Tue&day, Febt:ttary I, at 7:00p.m. in Hu liS. a dollar from his wallet; maybe they were two lovers having an argument; or maybe she was a door ·guard at West who wouldn't let somebody eat for free. For those of you who don't know and won:t find out from your friends, let's say that part is irrelevant. After all, we're only talkingabout a girl being hit by a boy, aren't we? Well, putting women's lib aside, let's just say that it is out of respect for the fairer sex that an unwritten law exists in the civilized world. Men do not hit wom~n! It is just not done. Throughout history, some of the world's greatest warriors were fFor tltree Genf!Watlofts~' .fhose Who Know .•. Have been recommending ATHENS, ANCIENT GREECE (AP) - Residents of this city were awakene·d early yesterday morning by strange shrieking noises· ..,parently originating in the Acropolis district, close to the headquarters of the Athenian Army Command. According to police reports, a call came in at 3:20 A.M. from one Apollo Jones, a neighborhood grocer and fortuneteller, who complained that his wife had heard screaming and crazy laughter out in the street. ( ificers Poppo and Dopoulis hustled over to the scene, and, upon arriving, found and took into custody one Richard \the Rogue\ a well- known general in the Athenian Army. HERSHEL MAURlCE B WALTER ••3 Union Graduates in Graubart Family\ 166 JAY ST. FOR HONESJ SFRVIt;E ANP GOOD J£WELR\ IN ATHENS First reports from the scene indicated that General Rogue . had been spotted by the officers while dancing in a cakewalk manner down the street, dressed in Shocking Pink hotpants, a black lace St. Laurent negligee, gold lame' slippers, and brandishing a spray can of feminine hygiene deodorant. The report continues that the general was screaming in a loud falsetto voice, \I love Alice Cooper!\ Apparently General Rogue had been tipping back a few too many beakers of tile old nectar, ~he~ passed the Breathalyzer test wtth flying colors. Officers said that \the Rogue\ SUu.!ndered without a struggle, but did complain later of cramps ·md the fact that he had lost an earring. In a prepared statement issued this morning, the Athenian High Command has refused to comment on the incident, but reliable sources close to the Command Headquarters report a state of frenzied confusion among officers and troops running rampant through the camp. Further reports say the General Staff is concerned as to the effect of the incident on the troops' morale. · Meanwhile, back in the Vice & Bunko Division of the Athens Police Department, General Richard \the Rogue'' r· s at this ti.~e. undergoi.n~ obser ation by VJsttmg spec1ahsts f om the Minerva Welby Medical Center .in Cartha~e. This lecture is the fourth in a 'series of programs sponsored by the Student Branch of the Institute of Electrical and Electronics Engineers (IEEE). Refreshments will be served, and there is no charge for admission. * * * * Due to a mix-up at registration, the Big Brother and Big Sister que~tionnaires were either lost or thrown out. But, Big Brpthers and Big Sisters from Union College are s~ill desperately needed to help youngsters in Schenectady. If you filled out a questionnaire at registration and are interested in becoming a Big Brother or Big Sister, please contact Marie Bednar, at Bronner House 370...0274, or John Calender at Phi Gamma Delta, 346-6597. Your interest will be deeply appreciated . by some youngster. * * * * The Eta Kappa Nu Association is sponsoring a slide rule workshop on Wednesday, January 26, 1972, from 3:20 ~ 4:20 in room NW 116. Professor Richard B. Russ of the Electrical Engineering Department will demonstrate the more sophisticated uses of the slide rule, including square and cube roots; half scales; inverted scales; sine, cosine, and tangent scales; • and log scales. If you want to speed up your caleulations and cut down homework time while increasing the accuracy of your problem results, come to this workshop. Be sure. to bring a ~de rule, pen~il, and paper! * * * * Phi Delta Theta's mascot, the famous Bubbles is expecting. Last year, she produced a pending campus record of 11 puppies. Once again, her offspring are in great demand. Call early to be sure of getting one. (377-4651 or 346-9730). * * * * Mr. Tony Abeson will be leading a four-week workshop in ensemble theater (movement and expression) in Old Chapel on Wednesday, Thursday, and Friday afternoons from 4:00 to 6:00, beginning this week. Mr. Abeson has worked extensively with Jerzy Grotowski and Peter Brook, and comes to Union courtesy of the Mountebanks. There is no cost; however, leotards and tights are required for all participants. Sign up NOW in the Green Room in N ott Memorial, and come down and join us. * * * * The Mahavishnu Orchestra, featuring John McLoughlin will appear· in a FREE concert in Memorial Chapel this Saturday~ January 22, at 8:30 p.m. Other · concerts planned for this term include Carly Simon on February 4, and Roberta Flack on February 25. McLoughlin is viewed by many as one of the finest guitarists on the music scene. and has played with Miles Davis, Tony Williams' Lifetime, and other noted musicians. He has performed at Carnegie Hall and in concerts throughout the country and his solo record has received rave reviews. ' ' ., . .. co pu of at co m~ or ca1 rn~ fa' ce1 ad. pas. Ce fin a· be II ., I ~ II

~· '. - .. ~.- National Notes: CONCORDIENSJS, Jan. 21, 1972 Page 3 State of The Un·ion T~e Question ofT enure.: An Alternatiue System Continued from Page 1 going over it all here. However, there is one portion of , the address that cannot go undiscussed. One of the major points of the address was that campuses have been changed from yeritable battlegrounds to places of learning once again. On the surface of this state~nt there are few who would find any disagreement with either its validity or its .; desirability Howev~r, it can not be dismissed so easily .. The impression that one gets from both the tone and the language of the address is that the campuses are ••quiet\ due to an acceptance of the state of affairs throughout the country. Perhaps this is the case, but .l tend to believe tha,t it is not. Instead an almost unbelievable state of apathy throughout the cdllege community is responsible for this quiet or state .of calm. We are now faced with a serious dilemma. If · we continue to remain passive, indifferent and silent, it will only tend to substantiate the point raised by the P.resident. It will indeed seem that we are accepting this administration's programs, ideals and goals. The burden of proof is now off the President and resting solidly on the people. We can no longer afford to sit by idly and talk of things that should be; we must act. There is now a perfect outlet for this action. It is an election year arld there are candidates around in both parties that desperately need the support of vast numbers of people if they are to be successful. Commitment is the key word here: keeping abreast of the Senate .. \ Continued from Page 1 commtttee was formed\ With the purpose of conducting this poll of the student body. The last subject of discussion at Tuesday night'-s meeting concerned the lack of a \place to meet friends,\ a student center, or a lounge of some sort on campus. Sentiment at the meeting seemed very strong in favor of some sort of student center. The meeting was adjourned .after a proposal was passed urging the existing Student Center Committee to meet and find a temporary alternative until a permanent student center can be completed . .................. by HERODOTUS The Athenian army, led by ·General StonewaD Steckler, engaged a force of Spartan rowdies yesterday in Northern Ionia. The Spartans lost 127 troops, 32 battering ·rams, 4 wooden horses, and their only· elepbant. Athenian cas1,1alities were slight, as three men suffered serapes and bruises, and the water.;boy scuffed his forehead. According to tt. General Richard the Rogue, recently appointed by Pericles as the Athenians'~ second-in· command ••Jt was all very · embarassing. lfs usuaUy not our policy to fight women. They might do a whole lot better if they send the men out against us next time.\ When asked whether be thought the Athenians could maintain their milUary superiority, General Steckler retorted, \Does a porcupine I Piss on a flat rock?\ ••••••••••••••••• t politic~! ··developments in the next few months and then acting upon them, supporting _ tne candidate th:at best represents your own beliefs, whatever these beliefs may be. One article or one open letter to the college community will have little, if any, effect. Hop!!fully <;omments such as the one made by Presi<ient Ni~on will. If they don't, then perhaps Hobbes was right. The masses of peo pie in this country rea:Uy aren't qualified to engage in the governmental process, POLITICS Just a snort bst 01 me Democratic candidates · by tlleir standings in recent .polls: Muslde, Humphry, ·lhe two leader.s; Lindsay.,. Jackson, Wall ace, McGovern and McCarthy following by'a.Jarge rnargin. It looks like the '72 election may be a rerun of the '68. Tben again, one ,can never tell. If the convention i.s deadlocked between Muskie and Humphrey anything could happen, but Kennedy is definitely not running. Continued from Page 1 intensified ·ala antagonisms. involving each segment of the limitation as a \horrendous However, Professor Enteman College. He acknowledges, .tnista,ke.\ Initially, Professor has proposed a plan which, however, that faculty reactiqn to Enteman believes that there is a &lthough he sees it as highly , such an innovation . has been problem of moral inconsistency, tentative, offers a significant generally disa.ppointing, and. that in that untenured faculty who alternative. to the existing model. only a C()llege of gre$lter prestige accepted positions here with the He states that, while tenure has · could successfully challenge· the attainment ·of tenure as a future historically been used as a .. form present tenure system .. possibility now find that the rules of de facto job security,\ If some sort of conclusion' can have been changed to exclude academic freedom remains \the be drawn. ftom. the. P.receding that possibility. In addition, only legitimate · reason · for remarks, it is that there is a Enteman views the limitation as tenure.\ Entetnan would prefer ·a distinct lack of trust between the undesirable on practical grounds, system under which every administration and the faculty, and he .rejects its supporting pr0fessor, while protected by and that without a greater spirit arguments. He thinks that the sufficient academic freedom . of community within, the College \new blood\ theory is specious, guarantees, would .be subject to 'the 'majority of professors will in that a rotating core of young evaluation on an oc,casional basis cling to the traditional practices faculty is unlikely to contribute by means of a procedure which enhance their job security. tr;~~~e;t~n t:~ ~~:~t~~~i~~o~~~~ . 1 ~.s·o· lc····a·l. ·'cl·ocm-.m~·*\···t't· 'e.,l ... , 'O'nc.ertsu. ~·c· iitd~e' argument does not hold because of the cost and effort required in . WINTER TERM (as of 1 I 17) . · · the continuous search for people I . Jan.. 2~ - Maha~ishnu· . Orchestra. with John· tp fill temporary positions within 1 Mel:. oughlm - Memo·r· 1al Chapel - FREE. . a .tenure-frozen department. ·Feb• 4 - <;arly Simon and Mickey Newbury -· · Professor Enteman believes that I Memorial Chapel -. $3.00, tickets go on sale in SAO in this time of budgetary difficulties the administration , approx. Jan. 27 should be seeking greater Feb. 18 - Dance after basketball game - Gym - cooperation.with the faculty as a FREE• . . step toward · ·holding down Feb. 25 - Roberta Flack.-· Pro.ctors Theatre ,_ ex:penses; in.steaq, th~ imposition , • k · . 1 · SAO · F tr 14. · of a tenure limitation has $3 •. 00, tic ets go on sa e m .· . a&prox. ai,·~-. . We don•t call oiiiftftl bC.iF \Super•• tor nothing. Maximus'\ Super is different from ordinary beer or ale or malt liquqr. One can and you'll know just how difFerent Maximus Super really .is. You'll als'o ·know how we arrived at its name.

·. Page 4 · CONCORDIENSIS. Jan. 21, 1972 Concordy Sports Defense Steals Game From RPI, · 83-66 by MINNER There is · always something special about beating R.P.I. This was the case, Tuesday night, as the Garnet cagers put on a beautiful defensive display to beat the Engineers 83-66 at T rQy m front of a primarily Union crowd. The uniqueness. Tuesday may have evolved from the fact that this was the I 14th meeting of the cross-river rivals since 1899. Union leads the series, 63-51, and extends its winning streak to two. Whatever the reason for the added incentive in a Union- R.P.l. match is, it is reflected in the attitudes and actions of the crowd, the coaches, and the players. At Troy, it was no excc;:ptiori. And the size of R.P.l.'s tiny '87 gym magnified the excitement. Union's noisy cheering section performed well, but.took a back seat to the 'psyche' of the hoopster.s and Coach Walters·. : The . two halves were completely diiterent contests. f'or those who listened to the radio broadcast, too bad. WG Y lost' transmission of the 2nd half play- by-play, and one of the most dev·astating Garnet performances of this season went unrecorded, unless, of course, you were there. R.P.l. jumped off to a 6-0 lead. They kept the advantage until a Tediscp hoop at 10:45 tied the contest at 18 apiece. Southpaw forward Steve Laskey of R.P.I. had a hot hand throwing in 18 of his game-total 23 .points in the opening 20 minute span. From that point the score was knotted four times and the lead changed' hands ~ix tunes. Another hoop by Tedisc<r at 4:41 gave the Dutchm'exi · t4e upper hand for good, 29-27. Mike Doyle turned in a stellar perforfiiance _on 6'6\ .center Tom Neufer. · With a hard-nosed fronting defense he held him to five points in the first half. For the ~arne bi:g \Neuf' scored .Qnly 14 points and hauled doWn but seven rebounds, while Doyle netted 17 markers and ripped off 16 ·caroms. , At halftime Union 'led by just four, 35-31. Walters must have lit some kind of Hre in the .Jocker room, because in the second half the Dutchmen came to play. Utilizing a fullcourt man•to- man press the Cagets opened up a 51-35 lead five minutes into the second half. Five minutes later, it was 62-40. R.P.I. simply could not bring the ball up court past Tedisco, Carmody, and later Abba. Jimmy was all over the court with at least seven steals on the night, five in the second half alone. But what a physical contest. Every time Tedisco put the ball up he was bumped and pushed all ar.ound. At times it seemed there had to be .blood arawn for a whistle to s~mnd. · Still, Jimmy spent most of the evening teaching the. Engineers a lesson in being overly rough by converting 15 of 18 from the charity stripe. 50%·,. 12\24. Union travels ·to Middletown, Conn., for a game against tough Wesleyan, S!itl.lrday. The Cagers dropped a heartbreaking 71-70 loss to the Midtowners at }lome, last season, the last home lolls in 16 C(')ntests. The ,Garnet will be looking for their first victory over 'Wesleyan, since 19.68. Anci for Geoff \Rainmaker\ Walker it was Pace revisited. Shooting jumpers from 15 to· 18 feet out he had the Garnet throng. in ecstasy by dropping home nine of his twelve amazing aerials. Tl}.e only worry was whether his ~~:~:; ::f~!r:.ould tni!IS scraping F r 0 s h H 00 p The victory seemed especially r· . .I d. B pleasing to Walters and Tedisco. ' ram, .. p: e·' I ·y· After stealing the ball away from an Engineer guard during the H · R p· 1 Union scoring spree,· Jimmy got · ·Ot . · · · ~ off one of his game-high five · · ·. · · · · • • · ., • assists to Doyle. He was decked BY FRANK DeLUCIA as he released the pass. Ne Poor defense and inept whistle. As the shot dropped in· rebounding. collaborated in Tedisco raised his ,.arms, fists lowering. the Freshmen-hoopsters clenched, to signify victory. record to 2-,2, ~by virtue .of a 75-59 Minutes later it was Carmody· loss to the R.P.I. J.V.'s. with the theft and • a beautiful Looking for a bright spot in a lead pass to Tedisco for . the dismal affair, Coach Bill Scanlon hoop. Jimmy slapped Willy's cited the execution of guards Bill hands in gratitude. Underhill, Kevin Crawford and Matmen Face Big Weekend Walters got into· the spirit Pon Zee as favorable. As for the when· Doyle exited from the front men. Scanlon refl~cted the contest. Mike had played an sentiment of any coach whose extremely physical game against team had just been out the. big Engineer center and had rebounded offensively 16-3. come to Tedisco's side during a Charlie Gugliotta again lead near fisticuffial outbreak. As the the Garnet Frosh with 44 points, Union rooters cheered the exiting but his eight rebounds -were not Doyle, Coach Walters raised the nearly enough in combatting the by MARK MINDEL Two spiritual lifts may bring the ailing Garnet grapplers back on their winning ways. Looking disjointed in losing four of their first five dual matches, the Matmen finally have a team leader. Sophomore Mark Zullo, who Wrestling Statistics I. Howie Benedict, heavyweight 2. Mark Zullo, 126 3. Larry Dagostino, 142 4. Frank Giarfiartino, t18 5. Pat Wardell, 177 6. Bruce Freeman, 13.4 . 7. Gary Guerney, 158 8. Alan Calabro, J 18-134 has won six of his seven matches was recently elected captain of the squad. The second lift is the return of la·st year's phenom, Alan Calabro to 118. Calabro was 14-1 last season at 118, including 10 pins in a row. This season Alan won the Albany Invitational at 118, Record Points Pins 7-0 35 2 6-i 31 2 3-2 15 l 2-2-1 14 1 4-3 13 0 3-3 l3 0 3-4 . 13 1 2-l 10 0 but could not make the weight after Christmas recess. He wrestled once at 134, iosing by a pin. Alan has been very aggressive in returning to his former weight class. Saturda;y the team faces tough Springfield at 1:00 P.M. in Alumni Gym, followed by matches versus Hobart at approximately 3:30, and against Dartmouth at about 5:00. The key affair will be the · Springfield match. Springfield has exceptionally .to·ugh lightweights, from 118 thru 1\42 so look for the Zullo - Calabro matches to be decisive. former Linton MVP's· arm. Engineer's board strength. About the big emotional Until January 22, when the victory Coach Walters sajd, Dutchmen meet Wesleyan away, \We've really arrived defensively. you can expect to find one Frosh 1 thought our guards played a team spending 90% of their great defensive game. We really practice time on defense, and one kept the pressure on their guards Coach vigorously expounding to and didn't let them get the ball them what the \Big D\ has done inside. That was the key to the for the streaking varsity. win.\ -···\\',\\'· ·--- .. P-\\:\ __ ., __ '!'-_\\\'' The Win raises Union's mark to 8..;2, and extends the Gamet's winning streak to four. R.P.I. is now 5-7.. . . ' . The aiithmetic for the game read: Tedisco ~ 25 points, five assists; Walker-IS points, nine rebounds; Doyle -17 points, 16 rebounds; Bacher ·12 points; and Carmody·five assists. . . .· THINGS FOR. THE··MIND &·BODY ~ .. Indoor Track Gets Also, the heavyweight is the returning State Champion, weighing 250, thus Howie Benedict will be facing his first real challen~e of the season. Dartmouth possesses excellent men at 177 an,d 190, which should proove tough for the rearranged duo of '{!at Wardell, now 190, and Gary Morris, now 177. Union outrebounded R.P.I. 43- 39, but was outpercentaged by the Engineers from the field 47% to 45%, although · taking nine more attempts. - From the line, THE OTIIE~ SIDE OF TODAY 131JaySt •. Off On Right Foot the Garnet were a hot 74%, 23- 31, while the Engineers were only One of Union's so - called \minor\ sports, Indoor Track, officially opened its dual meet season in good form Tuesday night, against the Mohawk Valley Community College Hawks. The Hawks did net provide too much competition for the Garnet squad, however, as they were able to score only 16 points, against Union~s 84. Led by co-captains Rick Jaszczak and Mike Rich, the Garnet speedsters swept to first place in every event except the two-mile run. Mike won both the high jump in 5'10\ and the hurdles fo contribute 10 points to the Union cause. After stumbling onto the track ·half asleep, Jaszciak showed the form which has won him Little All American honors, running away from :the field 1n the 600. yard · dash. in addition to .. anchoring the winnirig mile rela)\ and · leading off the. \B\ tw'o-mile relay. This same ''B\ relay was anchored by freshman 440 man, Fred Pressley, who ran a very impressive first quarter before rigor mortis caught up with him. Freddie finished his half-mile leg in a very respectable 2:14. Other outstanding per- formances were turned in by Scott Kalina in the 1.000. yard run and two - mile relay; freshman Pete Walrath, victor in the long jump at 20'11\; and frosh Dave Ricks, who cleared 12'6\ to take the pole vault. The track team travels to CornelL this weekend for the Cornell Invitational Meet. Their next home meet will be on Friday, February ll, against Lehigh and RPl. It should be worth w.atc.hing. Two new wrestlers, the injury- ridden Bill Benedict and the ~~ returning prodigal Bill Simpson 4 t .should add depth to the weaker 4' ·middleweight section, which has 4 been hurt by several drop-outs. All matches will be 6 minutes because of the duration of the wrestling day. Swimme·rs Look Ahead ·r o Hobart, Norwich Meets by JIM SMITH Led by senior co-captain Tom Klinkow and soph diver Mark Foster, Union's swim team opened its season two weeks ago at Union's Foote Pool. Tl\e tankers lost to Harpur by a mere three points, despite the brief period of preparation they had had, due to the Christmas vacation. ·· Klip.kow gathered ten points for the Garnet swimmers, winning both the 500· yard and the 200 yard freestyle events. He also helped the 400 yard medley relay to victory. Both diving events were captured by Foster, with freshman, Bdb Field backing him up with a second and a third. 1he meet was lost becau~e <;>f lack of depth in the shorter events. Union entered only one swimmer in the 50 yard and lOO yard freestyle. , - -- FANTASTIC WINTER CLEARANCE DAVE'S ~quirr ~lfnp 420 · State. St. - OPEN TUESDAY & THURSDAY Tl~ 9 Master Charge-Bank Amedcard \\\ .- -- - ..-. ...... - - - .- -- ~· - - ~ t t t t t ~ ) t ~ '~ <t '~ '~ ~ ~~ Ct '~ ·<~ ~~ ~~ ~ • ~. ~ This Saturday, at 3:00 P.M., Union will host a tough Hobart delegation, headed by All-American Bob· Coffin. Next Wednesday night· at .. 7:00, Union again plays host, this time to Norwich Academy, which is expected to give the Garnet squad little difficuJty. . -..,. ~- --

·Vol. 101, ~o. 24 . Founded at Union College 1877 SCHENECTADY, NEW YORK JANUARY 25, 1972 Price Twenty Cents Social Action Committee Involved With Tutoring l The Student Social Action Committee has attempted to develop a new orientation during this academic year. The Committee has set up a number of activities through which students can work in continuing projects in the Schenectady Community. It is hoped that this work will be meaningfNl both for the individual and the student. Two of our community projects are described below. If anyone is interested in working in any of these projects, he can contact Mark Coven at 370-0858 or sign up at Student Activities Office. The Co-op ..... A New Way For The New Year Hamilton Hill Co-op 401 Summit Ave. community by community people. A & P, Grand Union, Grand Cash, and Save-Way may be good stores but the system that they work under forces shoppers to pay prices that support owners and bosses. In the CO-OP, even if prices are only slightly lower or the same as other markets, the money goes into the community. People run the store and benefit from the store. If enough people work together, the store will really serve the neighborhood. One hour of volunteer time a week or one hour of volunteer time a month will help. Please come in and sign up if you can. Tutoring Project intern programs, in many cases have been given credit as Camp. Ed. Independent Study or an independent study m some particular department. The Tutoring Committee of the SSAC tries to provide opportunities for Union Students to help those who desire assistance in many educational areas. There are a small number of students working in the Schenectady Open School with children who lack the background needed for the high level education. Tutoring or student teaching may be done on a credit or non-credit basis. A great number of people are still needed. If you are interested, please get in contact with the SSAC, and we will make an effort to help you help. Violists Trampler, PhUHps In Concert The CO-OP is not an ordinary grocery store. It is not a money- making store. • Its only purpose is to help people work together to serve people. If people work together they should be about to offer food at lower prices than ord~nary stores. This is a CO-OP: CO-OP means cooperation. No one make.s money: everyone saves money. A few bosses do not live off the work of others and the necessity of all to eat. Rather, individuals volunteer time to buy food at lower costs. Also, control of the store is in the The greatly expanded activities of the Student Social Action Committee now include tutoring programs in the surrounding school districts. With the SSAC a<;ting as coordinator, many students are now working in the Niskayuna school system, as student teachers in the Human Ecology Program. These teacher- In addition, the Social Action Committee has scheduled several lectures for the coming term. Dennis Peskin, former instructor of English here,' will speak-on his recent trip to China, Thursday, January 27. at 8:00, in SS 112. David Dellinger, of the Chicago 8 and the New Mobe, scheduled Continued on Page 3 Noted viola virtuoso Walter Trampler and his wife, Karen Phillips, also a violist, will be the featured artists in the third of the 1971-72 Schenectady Museum- Union College Concert Series performances tonight (Tuesday, Jan. 25) at 8:30 p.m. in Memorial Chapel. The pair, accompanied by cellist Eric Wilson and harpsichordist Louis S. Bagger, will perform works by Gastoldi; Morley, Biber, Hummel, Luening and Schumann. Walter Trampler is generally considered the finest violist currently performing in the world today. A native of Germany, he began his musical training at age six, was touring Europe as a member of the Strub Quartet at 17 and at 18 was the principal violist of the Berlin Radio Symphony. He fled Germany during World War II, coming to America. After a tour of duty with the U.S. Army, he resumed his concert career. He gained broad recognition as a master of his instrument while a featured artist ·with the Casals Festival in Puerto Rico and has appeared numerous times with the Budapest Quartet, the Juilliard Quartet and the Beaux Arts Trio. He currently is a permanent member .of the Chamber Music Society of Lincoln Center. His wife, Karen Phillips, also a member of the Lincoln Center Chamber Music' Sodiety, appears regularly in a series of contemporary music concerts with the Juilliard Ensemble. She has perfo~med as a soloist in recitals with orchestras and chamber groups throughout the world. Mr.. Trampler plays a viola made by the brothers Hieronymous and Antonio Amati iri the early 17th century and a viola d'amore made by Cracassi in. 1743. Mrs. Phillips plays an 1840 viola by Bella Rosa. In addition to the concert, the pair wiii give a. rnasterclass and workshop for string teachers and students, Tuesday afternoon, Jan. 25 on the Union campus. Dog Problem Will Be Studied By Committee A student-faculty committee has been formed to consider the problem .of the Union College dog population, and a statement issued by the committee outlined the specifics of the problem as well as possibilities for improvement. The Subcommittee of the Environmental Resources Committee, which will deal with the d.og · problerii,\ consists of -Pamela Howard, '74, Paul Connors, '14, Professor Willard Roth, Cha.irman of the Dep-artment ·. ~f ·Biology, and Professor catl J .. George of the Biology Department. Lewis B. Kinter, '73, serves as consultant ·to the committee. The specifics of the problem, as outlined by the committee, basically entail the increasing danger posed by individual and pack animals, with -four animal deaths, four persons bitten and the shooting of several animals being cited. Another problem cited by the report is the disruption of classes and laboratories, as well as damage to Jackson's Gardens and other planted areas on campus. The dogs also create a public health hazard, already brought to the attention of the city officials. This hazard call result in· the revocation of. licenses for West College, Hale House and the Rathskellar. The Rathskellar will be closed by the Public Health Service if a dog is found in the area at any time, and spot checks have been made by Health Insp~ctors. The report also cited damage to buildings, decreased utility of campus lawns, and poor care for the pets by their owners as additional factors adding to the severity of the problem. In an attempt to bring about an expedient solution to the problem, the committee members plan to begin by consulting local authorities for advice. Among the local agencies that will be consulted are the Humane Society, the Animal Shelter, the Animal Control Division of the Police Department, local veterinarians and the Public Health Officials. The improvement plan also includes communication with other colleges for their advice, as well as informing the community of the problem in order to elicit support and advice.· One possibility· considered by the committee was the establishment of a dog owner's association of interested students and . faculty to discuss the problem, but this would require modification of the current residence rules to accommodate pet owners who are reluctant to identify themselves because they fear disciplinary action. The committee pointed out that the college is now in violation of the Schenectady Continued on Page 2 ' tt - Coffeehouse To Present Paul Ge.ref!Jia This Friday Paul Geremia, appearing at the Union College Coffee House this Friday, January 28, has got to be one of the most original folk- blues sjngers on the stage today. His home is Cambridge, Mass., even though you would have a hard time finding him there. His music is so full of experience, you know that he's been everywhere and done everything he sings about. The lyrics of his songs are alive with a touch of gutsy blues that you rarely find in the music of any single performer< This doesn't limit his style, by any means. The weaving of piano, harp, guitar, and harmonica into his songs gives them an appeal which favors no special genre. His ballads, \She Is As She Does\ and \1 Don't Think It Matters Anymore\ are .just as fine as his ragtimey \Long Time Loser\ and \Outside Man.\ Paul's first album, \Just Enough,\ on Folkways, gained him a following among his fellow musicians, although not from the general public. His second album, \Paul Geremia,\ on Sire records, has got to be a smash. The kind of talent that this man has cannot go without being no- ticed. His music is so personal that it touches every listener with Continued on Page 3

Page 2 CONCORDIENSJS, Jan. 25, 1972 The ·Nocturndl Cauett Habit Editor-in-Chief Louis S. Snitk<Jff 370-4956 Features Editor Matthew Swart7 Acting Sports Edit9r Mark Mindel Photography Editm Dave Conrey Asst. Photo Editor Scott Gordon News Editor Howard Stone Managing Editor Doug Wong 346-9735 Business Manager Joseph P. Achenbaum Asst. Managing Editor Asst. Business Manage1· Gail W. Goodman Michael Hurley Contributing Editors William Holleran Mike Meserole Peter Bickerman Subscription Manager Thomas J. Conley National Advt. Manager Mark Shulman by MIKE MESEROLE Dick Cavett hosts the finest talk show on televisian, and at last it looks as though people are finally starting to watch it. His Nielsen ratings are up and his contract has been renewed by ABC (in that order} and, lo and behold, local affiliate station WAST-TV, Channel 13, has rescheduled the program . from 12:30 A.M., where it followed old \Saint\ reruns, to its rightful II :30 P.M. timeslot. Throw out the night when John Lennon and Yoko Ono appeared for ninety minutes of Cohn, his boss at Columbia Pictures, thought that the film was great, but it bombed at its first two sneak previews. Baffled and desperate, Capra finally threw out the entire first two reel~ and left the rest . of the movie intact. It worked, \the next preview was a big success and we released the picture.\ STAFF: Jim Smith, Jim Rostenberg, Chris Mandeville, Frank DeLucia, Les Goldman, Rosemary Rice, Don Kaplan, Rita Morandi, Barbara McDonald, Patty Sipe, Jeff Weilburg, Bob Johnson, Larry Wharton, Jon Philpson, Bill Westheimer, Steve Ente, Richard Kern, AI Reisch, Joe Monkofski, George S. Bain, Jody Saslow, Charles Long, Tim Cain, Mark MacDonald the most boring conversation ;\-::::=~:,;>~ Sitting in the middle of these four geniuses, Cavett steered the conversation around to the question of whether Hollywood was dying. Capra, the number one director in the glory years of movies, said that there are always periods of depression, but that as long as movies keep being made, the spirit of Hollywood, the desire· to , make motion pictures wotJldn't die, although Hollywood as a geographical entity might fade. Published Tuesdays and Fridays dunng the school year by the student body of Union College, Schenectady, N.Y., National Advertising Representative, National Educational Advertising Service, Inc., College Publisht.s Representative, 360 Lexington Ave., N.Y.C. Editorial office, Old Gym, Union College. Publication Office, The World Publications, 771 State Street, Schenectady, N.Y. 12307, 346-2356. Entered in the Schenectady post office as Second Class Mail Matter. Subscription 20 cents a copy.$8 a year delivered anywhere in the United States. ----·-------------l Pre-Preregister? The proposed shift to the master system of course registration is definitely a logical alternative to the current fiasco which leaves students and professors in the dark concerning scheduling until the last minute. The master system, as it is proposed, would minimize the course conflicts as well as inform students and faculty ofcourse schedules well in advance of the new term. This would eliminate the grief of returning from vacation to a mai·lbox with no pwgram and could also allow students to make work arrangements in advance for the coming term. The endless hours on the course change· line could also be reduced, because students would kpow of all conflicts and c 0 urse. clQ~ings pefore registration. Another advantage of the plan is that the bookstore could have a more accurate roster for each course and the likelihood of textbook shortages would be reduced. The administration is urged to seriously consider this system, and the possibility of it·s ·implementation here at Union. LIGHTS One cannot help but notice the improvement of the lighting on campus during the dark Schenectady nights. The new high intensity lights posted at strategic locations have made on- campus navigation relatively easy. Campus sidewalks, once obscure, are now more easily visible and, during the icy non- winter, increased visibility can result in decreased spills. Photography buffs will note that. the lights add a new dimension to the campus at night and can aid 'in tl1e quest of .. artsy\ campus photos. Several Union coeds.,have lauded the fights for.the increased safety they afford women walking at night; adequate lighting is known to be an effective deterrent to crime. - L.S.S. r----------------, imaginable, and it is hard to remember a bad Cavett Show. The high points have been numerous; from 90 minutes with Jim Henson and the Muppets to lengthy visits from Orson Welles, S. J. Perelman, Groucho Marx and Abraham Lincoln Mmkie. Add to the list the incredible hour and a half spent with ex- Green Beret triggerinan Capt. Robert Marasco, who calmly talked about his Atmy days when he was an assassin for the C.I.A.; the shows with and without Army hero Lt. Col. Anthony Herbert, Korean War superstar, who has fallen frarn military grace; the rousing debate between Gore Vidal and Norman Mailer; and former Gov. Lester Maddox walking off the show after stomaching too much Truman Capote and confusing actor Jim Brown with. \that soul singer gentleman.\ Given the chummy, showbiz chit-chat of the Carson Show, the inane babbling of Merv Griffin and friends, find even the aristocratic, clipboard quizzing of David Frost, Dick Cavett stands out, if only because he is genuinely quick-witted and really interested in interesting people. Last Friday night (Channel 13 isn't perfect; they showed a third rate movie on Friday and moved Cavett over to I 2:15 Sunday night) the Cavett Show presented one of its best programs to date, by assembling American movie directors Robert Altrnan, Mel Brooks, Peter Bogdanovich and Frank Capra for a talk about the movies: It was a terrific show. At the start, Cavett, who can out- Carson the great Johnny C. when he really wants to, opened the program as a substitute dog for his pitchman Fred Foy, who found himself doing an Alpo dog food commercial sans the dog. It was a potentially et)l barrassing situation for Foy and the Alpo tetter To The Editor . ' 1 FERRO : ! Pharmacy •, TotheEditor: V fOUNTAIN SfltVICE It has become apparent to me t f that Sparta is seeking a war With 6 One bloCk froill ltownell fl 7.0510 f the fair city-state of Athens. The v Gate slanders and agressions L 575 NoH Street f eomm1tted by the Spartans are ------------~---- hardly fair payment for the good will that We have Sh()Wn them SPECIAL 'IALE ·····--·-· .............. CLOSING OUT MANY ITEMS ENTIRE STOCk SUITS • SPORT COATS SLACKS (W•ilfs 33-34-36) Includes New DcM!ble' !CIIin _, Corfluroys OUTIIWIAI. over the years. Despite their slovenly habits, crvde and boorish ways, and total lack of moral fibre, we have always made the Spartans welwme in ow homes, as they h1ne pmven to be capable, and occasionally reliable, domestic servants. folks, but Cavett's imitation of a starved-out-of-its-mind mutt saved the day. Immediately afterward~ when he resumed his seat on stage, orchestra leader Bobby Rosengarden led the band in \How Much Is That Doggie In The Window?\ Showing a dip from the most famous fi.Jm by each of the four directors, Cavett quickly brought everyone out for a five-way discussion. Altman, who directed \MASH \Brewster McCloud,\ and \McCabe and Mrs. Miller,\ came out first, followed by Mel Brooks, who made \The Producers\ and \The Twelve Chairs.\ The heavily publicized Bogdanovich, of ''Last Picture Show\ fame, appeared next, and the incomparable Capra, who won .Oscars. for. \It Happened One Night,\ \Mr. Deeds Goes To Town,\ and \You Can't Take It With You,\ rounded out the group. Brooks and Altman, agreed and quickly Added that · ihe motion picture companies ar.e not the one-man-rule operations that they were in horrible Harry Cohn's day, and that is bad for directors. \The conglomerate clowns run the show now,\ said Altman. \It's decision by committee and those jerks don't have a creative bone in their bodies.\ \I don't know about you guys,\ interjected Brooks, \but I find something very obscene about Parking Lot people running a movie company. I mean the Kinney Corporation ain't Sol Hurok.\ In sum, it was an exciting and very informative hour and a half, that seemed to pass in less than 15 minutes. More often than not, it's that way almost every night. Dog Problem Continued from Page 1 Municipal leash law which Of the four film clips, the requires that all animals be on a \Springtime For Hitler\ leash between 6 A.M. and 11 productio·n number from Brooks' P.M. and may run free after 11 \The Producers\ was the best. If P.M. The report added that you have seen the picture, which although state health laws are has made the TV circuit the last being violated in the cafeterias, two years, you'll agree that the the Saga Food Service is unable aerial view of the chorus line to control the problem. goose-stepping in swastika The committee went on to formation is one of the funniest consider the logistical problems and most insane moments in involved in instituting action motion pictures. Talking about it against the dogs and/or their later, Brooks sa-id that he owners, stating that the Dean of previewed the movie for Students is not likely to approve Hadassah, \but they really didn't liberalized residence rules to get it. I think they expected include pets. The conclusion of chicken soup.\ the committee was that it is most Of the four directors Frank likely that the ultimate solution Capra drawing on a ca;eer that _of the problem will come through reache's back to the Mack actively removing and confining Sennett days in Hollywood, was stray animals, and by employing the most interesting. He told one !he ·local dog catchers to story about the making of \Lost tml?ound uncontrolled or Horizon,\ where he and Harry unlicensed dogs. Itt DUI STUDENTa YOUNG MEN'S DEPT. ~~to42 •;, OFF JACKETS • COATS ............ l13 81'AD .. ST., AT Eltil ILVD. War has become an inevitable reality. Athens is r~ady. We wm -.cc ...... , .. , sack Sparta and smash the OPEN 'iHURSDA:Y 10. tPM. ~ I'AltqiG.~···_..., stou ·) ~ ~ . . ' :' .... '• ..,: .. ,- Spartans. ·· General Stonewall Steckler Lt. Gen. Richilrd the Rogue strike .tlzree ... you're out. Photo by Jon Philpson ( I c ( I F ~ ~ a r: n p p p C4 w cc VI c fe ar N T A fo fo be cc re bl fr c in L G m m m u e~ he th

e e s s j Linebacker wishes to inform students of the following corrections. Mrs. Bittleman's Art lO and Mr. Erskine's Art 12 and 32 were in,correctly entered as lab courses and so the information on them in Linebacker is invalid. In a<;idition, the reason the total reporting. column for Mr. Shinagel's Sex and Literature course reads 103% is because of a mixup in handing out the cards to the two sections of the class. Linebacker apologizes for these errors. * * * * Would you like to make the acquaintance of a Sllperior collicG:lus of the geniculate body? Would you like to play with a stereotaxic machine? If you are fool enough to say yes, here is a ray of hope to lighten your miserable existence. If there is sufficient interest, the amazing Professor Berthold has agreed to discuss the creation of a course, taught by him, in advanced physiological p'sychology. The emphasis would be the practical application, in the laboratory, of material learned in earlier courses. The course would be a psychology course. A prerequisite would be Psych. 46, physiological psychology. The course could be offered next winter or spring. Anyone interested should contact Prof. Berthold or Jeff Weilburg, in 157 Davidson. * * * * There will be a Deutschverein meeting/ social hour in Hale House Lounge on Monday, January 31, 1972 at 7:30p.m. * * * * Tickets for the Social· Committee's Feb. 4 concert featuring Elektra recording artists Carly Simon and Mickey Newbury· will go on sale this Thursday in the Student Activities Office. Tickets are $3 for Union students with I.D., $4 for all tlthers. * * * * The next Senate meeting will be on Tuesday, February I, at Geremia Here Continued from Page 1 special magic. As he puts it, \I'm getting it down to something less obtuse than bar music, but more personal than rock. I don't think you need a whole wall ·of amplifiers to communicate.\ Paul Geremia does communicate as proved by the reviews. He's received nothing but the best from every source from Variety to The Ottawa Citizen. He's played at Gaslight in NYC, Gerde's Folk City, Cafe Lena, and Jack's in Cambridge. The dollar spent to see Paul Geremia is a dollar spent for a night of funky, down-blues mixed with gentle touches of memory. Sue Bindelglass, a Union College coed, adds an extra reason to make the ·coffee house at Old Chapel your home this Friday night 7:00P.M. in ·Hu 115. * * * * Need a ride or riders? Then bring this information to WRUC before 10 P.M. on Wednesday. We will take all ride information we receive and air it Thursday morning at 8:15 and again at 9:15. Be sure to include your name, how you can be reached, where you are going, and when you wisr to leave. . * * * * The Scheaectady P.Y.E. Club· will meet on Thursday, January 27, at 7:30 p.m., in the P.Y.E. Office, located in the basement of Silliman Hall. AH members are urged to attend, and new members will be allowed to sit on the couch! (offer void where prohibited) . * * * * The newly created discussion group of the International Relation$ Club, will hold its weekly meeting this Thursday, Jan. 26, at 7:30p.m., in HU 113. The starting point for this week's topic will be an analysis of the recent India-Pakistan war. Its effect on India as a neutral nation, and the role the new state of Bangia Desh will play on the subcontent, will be discussed. All .parties interested in discussing problems related to international relations are urged to attend. Projects Continued Continued from Page I as a regular convocation speaker, has been moved up from the Spring and will be speaking February 1, Tuesday, at 8:00 in Memorial Chapel. Wednesday, February 9, Bob Saltzman of the Citizens Committee to Investigate Assasinations will speak on \Who Killed JFK?\ in SS016, at 8:00. Finally, on Wednesday, Febru_-ary 23, several films will be shown in SS016 at 8:00. The most Meaningful Semester you'll ever spend ... could be the one on World Campus Afloat Sailing Feb. 1972 to Africa and the Orient Through a transfer format, more than 5,000 students from 450 campuses have parlier paled for a semester in this unique program m inter· national education. WCA wrll broaden your horizons. literally and frguratrvely ... and g1ve you a better chance to make It-meaningfully-in thrs changrng world. You'll study at sea wrth an experrenced cos- mopolitan faculty. and then during port stops you'll study the world itself. You'll drscover that no matter how fore1gn and far-away, you have a lot rn common with .people of other lands. WCA isn't as expensive as you might think; we've done our best to bring it within reach of most college students. Write today for free details. ·TEACHERS: Summer travel with credit for teach- ers and administrators. llllli~~ • Write Today to: Chapman College, Box CC26 Orange California 92666 ' ' FOR LIQUOR & WINE Try JAKE LIPSTEIN'S 464 State Street FR 4-1888 •. - ' .. J ' .. '. Nusbaum's \Outfitters to Men and Young Men\ 447-451 STATE ST. SCHENECTADY ,,. CONCORDIENSIS, Jan. 25, 1972 Pag/'3 Esca·lation of the Air War: 'Blue Machine' Strengthens by WOODY GUTHERZ Since January of 1969, President Nixon has been increasing the de-escalation of ground forces in Indochina. The ground troops are becoming irrelevant in the daily fighting in North and South Vietnam, Laos, and Cambodia. The skies of Southeast Asia are continually Spartan Parade: A Fiasco h11 HERODOTUS General B.S., commander the Spartan army, recently called a drill of the Spartan warriors, and this reporter was invited to review the troops. The drill never took place. The .general explained to llle that one of the warriors was sick, and the other one refused to march alone. spotted with American air power, pounding away at the territory once occupied by American foot soldiers. Since Nixon took office, the ground troops have gradually been brought home to satiate the fangs of the liberals who have been pledging for years to withdraw the troops from Indo- China. But the \Blue Machine\ (i.e. the Air Power) is steadily increasing. In February of J 9TI, Nixon was quoted as stating: \I will not place any limits on the use of air power.\ The Pentagon has estimated that more than 27 million tons of botnbs: 6 million pounds a day, 4,000 pounds every minute, have been dropped since Richard Nixon has taken office. Washington Post said: \Laos has been the most heavily bombed country in the hist,ory of aerial warfare.\ In Northeast Laos a community called The Plain of Jars, once was a struggling community of 50,000 peasant rice farmers. The United States flew its \Blue Machine\ over th!s .small community and totally leveled it, and evacuated the neighboring towns of all their citizens. L. Hafner, Deputy Director of USAID in Laos in January 1971 said: \Sure some of the villages get bombed, there's no other way to fight a war out here, for God's sake. It's a war, and the civilians have to suffer. We did it at Cherboug, didn't we?\ General Smith, known affectionately to his troops as B.S., was not always a mi6tiuy man. Until two weeks ago, when he bought his commass10n, B.S. was a mascot for the Spartan javelin team. While being held on a leash, he would be led onto the field at half-time, and growl at the opposing team's bench. Word has it that he is still on leash, and must be walked three times a day. According to reliable sources, the man holding the leash is none other than Lighthorse Harry, the star javelin catcher for the Spartan team, and second-in-command of the Spartan army. I tried to approach General B.S. for comment on this, but he was fetching a stick at the time, and obviously too busy to talk. Randy Floyd, a marine pilot who has bombed North Vietnam thirty-seven times, has stated: \ ... If you didn't find any particular targets you wanted to hit, then normally you'd just drop your bombs wherever you wanted to.\ During the period from January I, 1971 until June 1, 1971, the United States bombarded North Vietnam for forty-three days, almost an average of two times a week. If the Air War is 12Qt;. .de- escalated, all of lndochind7'-WiiC be leveled, and there will not be any survivors to tell the story. Picket With the Union College Anti-war Committee to stop the of the Air War, on · 1972. ·The war is Still fought everyday, there is no to waste. Al'l information, unless On May 23, 1971. the otherwise stated, was ga~hered from an article called \Era of the Blue Machine, Laos: 1969-\ by Fred Branfman. - - ....... TUTORS NEEDED IN MATH & CHEMISTRY APPLY between 2 and 4 AT TUTORING OFFICE, OLD (:HAPEL THE UNITED NATIONS EDUCATWNAL,SI;IENTIFIC AND CULTURAL ORGANIZATION a specialized agency of the United Nations dedicated to peace and $6 value $1.50value $&value all for only $6 . ;;;;;=::- ~ ·. - THE STUDENT AID SOCIETY a non-profit non-political organization dedicated to helping students to help themselves offer STUDY ABROAD • New 19th Edition • E:ach copy is trilingual in English, French and Spanish • Paris, France, 1972 • 644 Pages The most. complete scholarship directory in the world lists more than 234,000 scholarships, fellowships, loans and grants in more than 129 countries or territories! Tells who is eligible, fields of study, financial assistance, HOW, WHEN AND WHERE TO APPI,.. V! Reflects the latest scholarship approach casted by financial need! VACATION STUDY ABROAD • Each copy is trilingual in English, French and Spanish More and more Americans are flocking overseas for summer vacations, and an increasing proportion is young Americans! With the price war now raging on overseas airfares, record-breaking numbers of young Americans will surge across Europe this summer! VACATION STUDY ABROAD tells how qualified people will go free! Provides information on short courses, seminars, summer schools, scholarships and travel grants available each year to students, teachers and other young people and adults planning to undertake study or training abroad during their vacations. These data were provided by some 500 organizations in 54 countries! STUDENT AID SOCIETY membership dues. Services offered: • Scholarship information service. Answers questions concerning scholarships worldwide! • Travel service. Plans interesting tours to exotic lands! • Reference Service. \Your reference service saved me much valuable time which I put in on other subjects. Result: 5 As and 1 B. \ · Drafts term papers, essays, book reports, theses, etc. frequently using primary sources available only in the Library of Congress! We do not actually write the finished assignment since that would deprive the student of valuable educational experience and defeat the very purpose for writing for oneself in the first place. We will provide background information and bibliographies which rank with such tools as the College Outline Series and encyclo- paedia reference services available only with expensive sets. Limit o'f one draft at small additional charge, pl'!r semester per student in good standing_ We cannot answer any question which we feel requires the advice of a doctor, lawyer, architect, engineer, or other licensed practitioner, nor can we advise concerning your financial investments. Neither can we undertake market research or surveys or provide home study courses. CN, Ann Arbor, Mich '7he Vantage Point\ is a book put together by 5 ghost writers and edited by LBJ, Your reference service is almost like my own personal ghort writer. \ LC, Gainssville, Flil. \The 3 referenqe books of Which every student netldi/HirJOMI copi• .,. StUdy Abf\OIId • jpod dfctiOMty lfnf/ rhi!IIHII\ill; I got. $10,000 ,f.yt~~~r ~holllflhlp from SfJH!Y AbrO#Id.\ AR. ,._.,..,, 01/if. ~~;e:;~; ;~~~ :~- ;o: ~;0~;·--- -: Friendship Station, Washi\tton D.C. 200161 Gentlemen: I enclose $6 for St.t.tdy Abroad~ l Vacation Study Abf08d and annual dues. 1 Name : . 1 Address _ ___, __________ • 1 City, State . Zip I •-----------------------~ t ...

l.' ..... I?~R-~ 4r f;Q!NCORDJENSJS, Jan. 25, 1972 l\i•·\ '\' . ~:- Concordy ··• I~ Sports Cagers Hit 9 and 2 Beat Wesleyan 72-58 bf lULL HOLLERAN Mter the Garnet basketbaJJ t'e&lil'l's monumenta-l 72-58 victory ov~r Wesleyan in M-iddletown, Connecticut, on SatuFday night, a disgruntled Cardinal rooter was overheard explaining to some frie-nds that Uniou was actually lucky to escape with the win ~ their ninth fn eleVen starts and fi-fth straight. He pointed out that Wesleyan outshot and outrebounded the visitors, and that only Union~s good night at the foul line saved them from defeat. Either t-hat guy knows nothing at all about l»asketball, or he could not ~ossibly have been in !'he same gymnasium as the 50 or so rabid Garnet rooters who made the t-ri·p. (They saw a totally different game - a ga-me in which a much smal'ler Union five played devastating defense, ·minimized Wesleyan's pronounced height advantage by systematiGally forcing their big men into fot;Jl tFouble, and played a cool-head'ed, disciplined game on offense. True. t•he Cardinals outshot the Garnet. 44% to 42%. And they outreoounded Union 44-34. Big deal. Here's an even better statistic for you: Union forced 19 Wesleyan turnovers to only nine Garnet miscues.·· Union\ aggressive defense, their ability to hamper the dfeetiH·ness of the good ( 'ardinal hig men. and then their dead!~ foul shooting touches ( 7XC';) told the story of the game. The Dutchmen started off in high gear. rolling to an early 9-4 lead hefore the Cardinals really got untracked. When they did, li- 6 Jim Akin and li-4 Brad Rogers started clearing everything in sight off the hoards and soon Wesleyan was in the driver's seat, I X-14. At that point the Garnet were being nutrebounded, 14-2. The Garnet managed to stay close on some fine outside shooting over the Cardinal lOne, as they had to move outside with Ald:n · cl'ogging up the middle. Wesleyan's box and one defeuse had Jim Tedisco in tow, so it was a:~parent that something was goiNg to have to be done to get the big man out of there. Accordingly, the Garnet started to drive down the middle and before long Akin had committed his third personal foul. After he sat down, the Dutchmen never lost command. They bolted into a 41-30 halftime lead with Akin's effectiveness severely limited. Three Wesleyan players picked up three fouls before the half ended. Much of the credit for Saturday's win has to go to Mike Doyle, who had to play Akin - ·unquestionably the best big man Union has faced to date. Doyle responded with one of the best games of his career, hitting a season-high 23 p:ain.ts and grabbing 12 rebounds. Fifteen of those points came in the fi-rst half, when Doyle wowed the crowd by hitting nine free throws in a· row. His streak reached II in a row by the game's end, but he missed on his last attempt of the night. Meanwhile the Dutchmen continued to control play during the second half with a disciplined attack. Brad Rogers took up some of the slack for the foul- troubled Akin, sinking 12 of his 15 total points in the second stanza. The game had turned into a rout by the contest's end, as Union forwards were running rings around their demoralized Wesleyan opponents. The Garnet floor show, led by Tedisco and Bill Carmody, worked men into the open time and again with superior movement and pinpoint passing. The Dutchmen led by as many as 20 points down the stretch. Akin finished with 19 points and 18 rebounds, but he only had five tallies and eight caroms in the second half. He never did foul out. but was forced to play a Swimmers Lose To Hobart by PAUL CONNORS Saturday, Union's swimmers hosted a spirited Hobart team. coached by Bob Beaudry, former tiiiion swim coach. Hobart, considered a strong squad, handed the Mermen a 62-50 setback. with Union moving to an 0-2 situation. and Hobart 3-2. The Garnet howed to Harper in the season opener. Coach McMurray's squad. plagtled with flu absentees. saw admirahle performances given in the required and optional diving competition by freshman Bob Field. who fell 7 points shy of the 200 point pool-diving record (!'92 . .\~0). Co-captain Tom Hough in the 100-yard freestyle. and Senior Alex Bodeilstab in the 200-yard breaststroke captured first-places in their events with times of; 54.4 and 2:37.6 respectively. Hough teamed with fellow co-captain Tom Klinkow, Mark Shulman. and Bruce Eggleston to ·overpower two Hobart squads in the 400-yard free relay with a time of 3:44.6. Jim Poole and Bob Coffin gave outstanding perfomiances for Hobart, with Coffin setting a new pool record in the I ,000- yard freestyle. Sporting a fast pace of I 1:17.2. Coffin broke the . record of II :44.6, set by Kings Point only last season, Union hosts Norwich this Wednesday night at 7:00 p.m., and travels to Kings Point Saturday in its first away meet of the season. Frosh Lose To Wesleyan by FRANK DELUCIA Plagued by the twin basketball misfortunes, offensive fouls and poor foul shooting, the Garnet yearlings lost to Wesleyan 68-58. Trailing by just one at the half, 30-29 the Dutchmen Frosh aided the Connecticut college's cause by forfeiting the defensive boards early in the game and shooting a meager 38% from the field. The 22-49 shooting . of the Middletown five ·proved less decisive than the five fouls received b\ Rich Maisano. Charlie G~gliotta, and Jack Cumerfotd who all rode the bench for the final five. With four minutes remaining- and Coach Scanlon's boys trailing by three, Union initiated a faulty press. and Wesleyan realized a victory; a victory contested at the· charity line, Wesleyan 24-Union 10 . good part of the second half with four fouls. Tedisco had 10 points, but they were worth their weight in . gold as he also played an outstanding floor game. Geoff Walker had a good-shooting night from the foul line along with Doyle, hitting all eight of his charity attempts en route to a 16 point total He added seven rebounds in another tough defensive effort. Howie Benedict in near pin of Spring{te/(J opponent in triple dual Saturday. Howie was only tdple winner, raising his perfect record ·to 10-0. Photo by Jon. Philpson Carmody had a hot night from the field, hitting four of four field goal tries, and finished with I 1 points. Tom Bacher chipped in with eight points, and Chuck Abba contributed four. Mats Lose Two . / . . Abba's presence was felt most on defense, however, as he filled ia admirably for Tedisco when the latter was forced out of the game briefly in the second half with four fouls. Drop to 2-6 Next on the schedule is Norwich, with that game slated for tomorrow night in Memorial Fieldhouse. Tipoff time is 8 P.M. as the Dutchmen go after six in a row. In their last start the Cadets gave u·p 112 points in a losing effort to lowly Hamilton, so chances for a Union win appear to be good. The Wes'leyan win will not hurt Union's standings among New York's top small college squads. Ranked third last week behind Brockport and Ithaca. the Garnet could move up after this week's balloting. by MINNER In the Union College Press Guide for Winter 1971-1972, it lists the seating capacity for Alumni Gymnasium, the site of the Garnet home wrestling matches, as 300. Last yeat it was a first come, first serve battle for those 300 seats. And you had to come early to sit in the prized mid ... mat bli'lcony section.. Despite the team's 1-4 dual meet record, a large, near capacity crowd shuffled into the old arena·. to see if the grapplers could get hack on track, Saturday, in a triple dual against Springfield, Dartmouth, and Hobart. The dwindled crowd after the finish of the first match, a 33-9 Trackmen Visit Cornell And Come Away Happy Last Saturday, Union's indoor track team ran in the Cornell Invitational Meet, displaying some of the weapons which will make them a great team. Although no official team rcore was kept, the Garnet would have gathered a total of 18 points, highest for any team in the College division. The highest individual place for a Union runner was Rick Jaszczak's second in the 440 yard dash. Half of Union's 18 points came in the five field events. Pole vaulter Bill Clayton \floated\ over the bar at 13 feet, to capture fourth place in a tough field, while freshman Dave \the Cap\ Ricks took fifth with a 12'6\ vault. The event was won at 14 feet. Meanwhile, freshman Pete Walrath accounted for ·two fourth places, in the triple jump and long jump. In the latter event Pete had two jumps around 22 feet, which were not measured because of fouls. Stan Jackson cleared 5'10\ in the high jump to take fourth. Co- captain Mike Rich did not jump because of a pulled hip muscle, but Mike says he will be ready for tomorrow night's meet at Williams. Perhaps the most significant race for Union was the two mile rut. where freshman Seamas Johnson ran a very strong 9:51 only 12 seconds off the school record. In doing so, he beat out Hamilton's Marc Peuron, one of New York State's better long-long distance runners. Peuron will surely be out to avenge this loss in tomorrow's triple meet at Williams. Other bright spots in a very long day were Skip Jamieson's 6.9 second 60 yard dash, and the Jim Smith and Dave Rice combination in the mile. Tomorrow, Union's cindermen will meet Hamilton and Williams, both very good teams, at Williamstown. THE SUMMARIES Shot Put, Mowery 47'11\ 6th; Cable 42'8\ High Jump, Jackson 5'10\ 4th; Rich DNJ (injury) Long Jump, Walrath 21'8\ 4th Triple Jump, Walrath '43'9\ 4th Pole Vault, Clayton 13' 4th; Ricks 12'6\ 5th Running Events 60 yd HH, Kern 8.6 60 yd dash, Jamieson 6.9 440 yd dash, \Jaszczak 51.1 2nd: White 52.9 600 yd dash, Prysunka I :20.0 880 yd run, Thornton 2:06.8 1000 yd run, Ka·lina 2:26.5 5th; Burdell2:29.4 Mile, Rice 4:37 .0; Smith 4:38.7 2 mile, Johnson 9:5L68th; Roe 10:21.4 Mile relay, White>Prysunka, Pressley, Jaszczak- 3:31.1 3rd 2 mile relay, McJ<.inlay, Thornton, Burdell, Kalina~ 8;35;2 5th Distance Med, Johnson, Wood, Rice, Smith -11:18.0 defeat by Springfield, may mark what the crowds will be like for the remaining home matches. In the. first contest, Springfield took the opening seven matches to amass ' an emharassing 33-0 lead over Union. The final three Garnet victories, decisions by Gary Morris, Pat Wardell, and Howie Benedict, only made the loss more bearable. Against Dartmouth, we were hurt by the fact that once again Alan Calabro did ·not wrestle. Frank Giamartino, his 'understudy, was injured. This first match forfeit cost us the victory because Calabro, two pounds overweight, easily pinned his •victor' in a non-scoring grappling exhibition. Six points Dartmouth got, six points Union did not get. Twelve makes a big difference in a 23-14 lbss. Trailing 15-3, Union had a slim chance for victory when Jeff White and Gary Gurney recorded back to back wins. These hopes went down the drain as New England State Champ Chuck Thompson pinned Morris at 177 and Pat Wardell suffered a draw at 190. With the team trailing 23-ll, Howie Benedict squea:ked to his barest win of the year, 1-0, over a previously unbeaten heavyweight. The Hobart Match was just simply staged too late. A 35~6 Union victory would have psyched up botb- the crowd and wrestlers had it been the opener. But once again the schedule was against the matmen. As it was, only a handful of true grappling maniacs hung around for that one. Union took all but two of the nine matches ( 118 was a double forfeit.) Hobart also f01:feited three other matches. For the weekend, Howie was the only triple winner, keeping his clean slate unblemished at 10- 0. Double winners were Mark Zullo, now 8-2, Pat Wardell, now 6-3-1, and Gary Guerney, now 5- 5. The team must now point for a winning season, with six duals remaining; The talent is there, it just has to be used better. Calabro will probably wrestle at 134 in the next match, Kings . Point, next Saturday, away. Bruce Freeman will be trying to make 118, and the team will benefit from Bill Bendict and Bill Simpson in the middleweights. A couple of back-to-back road victories will be needed if the grapplers expect anybody but themselves to. show. up for the season ending home stand. SPORTS PROFILE vl'i/1 appear Friday. M Pn Co lUI in a 1 afterr and Politi Profe chief the Trial: Nure1 Ame1 whicl event purpc First in ten' expo: woul~ surro and i and SecOJ wantc of beha' AI boo~ \cort ques1 Gi Sl Th Girlir gener Janm Admi opera Afj will follo' Ho Thur: Ge Thur: p;m. ~ Fi! noon morn Re grout listed For Marr Acth He the :R

Fo~nded at Union College 1877 Vol. 101, No. 25· . ·_..; ~ SCHENECTADY, .NEW YORK JANUARY 28,1972 Price Twenty Cents1 The Social Committee will present Catly SirY}on and Mickey Newbury in concert Friday, Fib.ruary 4; at 8:30p.m. in Memorial Chapel. Tickets ar~ iiow: mr :Sale in the Student Activities Office.· They. are $J: for Union students and $4 for.all others. Garnet Batter Norwich In Williams Prelude by BILL HOLLERAN The Garnet hoopsters got in a good tuneup on Wednesday night .for Saturday's key showdown with Williams, as the Garnet drubbed. the lowly Cadets of :Norwich 104-74, for their sixth straight win. Jim Tedisco had another one of those nights for the Dutchmen - he finished with 32 points on the evening. So effective was the little guy against the hapless Norwich defense that he had 27 .of his total l;>y halftime, and had finished his. njght's work when over ten minutes remained in the contest. Tedisco was simply incredible on Wednesday ni¥ht; he had the Garnet fans and even the Union bench . wiling their eyes in amazement at his scoring plays all evening long. With Tedisco leading the charge, the Dutchmen burst into a 19-6 lead in the ·opening moments, and· even the usually bombastic \Psych Section\ could find little to get excited about. The carnage continued throughout the first half, and the halftime horn sounded with Union in complete and utter command, 62-36. Like another one of Union~s weak foes this season, Queens, Norwich did ~not shoot badly but had all kinds of trouble handling the ball. The Cadets shot 50% from the field, 29 for 58, but committed a glaring 21 turnovers. each. Tom Combs scored only four points but he hauled down IO big rebounds. Fan favorite Joel Roslyn played a fine game in the backcourt once he got untracked, hitting four points on two nice buckets. He bombed one jumper ·in from the left side, and then looked like Tedisco himself on a drive down the middle for two more. Herb Reichenbach played most of the contest for the Military Justice, War Ethics Reviewed By Taylor Panel After the first-stringers had opened a confortable 79-54 margin, Coach Gary Walters opened tne floodgates and in came the reserves. Immediately the crowd started to grumble at this act of mercy, thinking that they were once again to be cheated oat of seeing the Garnet top the century mark. · Dutchmen, and although · he looked tight at the foul line he finished with five points. Co- captain Bob Pezzano saw a lot of action in the second half, leading Union•s charge to the 100-point barrier and contributing six tallies. Chuck Abba also had six on the evening. Rich Goldberg added five points, two of which lifted the Garnet to the century mark and delighted the home crowd. Rein Eichinger and Jim Bolz joined the fray late in the contest, but they each tallied three markers as every Union player saw action and scored. by TIM CAIN Professor Telford Taylor of Columbia University participated in a panel discussion on.Monday afternoon with 'Professors Board and Sharlet of the::! Union Political Science Department. Professor Taylor is the former chief United States prosecutor at the Nuremburg Wi,r Crimes Trials and is author of the book Nuremberg and Viet-Nam: An American · Tragedy. This 'hook, which is \an outgrowth of the events at My Lai,\ had several purposes, according to Taylor. First of aU, he said that he intended the book to be expository in nature in that it would correct misunderstandings surrounding the events at My Lai and the subsequent investigation and prosecution of the case. Secondly, Taylor said that he wanted to make a case for laws of war. governing soldiers' behavior in combat. And finally, he felt Jhat the book was significant for its \confrontation\ value in that it questions the attitudes and Girllng Opens Skating Rin·k , The Ice Skating rink at the Girling Center will be open for general skating this Sunday, January 30, from 2 to I 0 P·.!D· Admission is 25¢, to cover operating expenses. After this Sunday, the Rink will be open according to the following schedule: Hockey Club: Tuesday and Thursday 3:30 to 6 p.m. General Skating: Tuesday and Thursday evenings 7 to 10:30 p.m. Sunday 2 to lO p.m. Figure Skating: Wednesday 12 noon to 3 p.m. and Saturday morning. Reservations for individual groups for times other tha.n those listed above are available for $10. For further details, see Mrs. Marra (who else?) at the Student Activities Office. Hot drinks will be available at the Rink for a small cost. _ behavior of nations in recent years that have resulted in the United States becoming the · source of energy and thought· for laws ofwar. After talking briefly about the purposes and scope of his book, Taylor r;ened the discussion to questions from the panel and audience of about thirty in SS 115. The questioning, led by Professor Sharlet, elicited responses from Taylor on subjects ranging fr~m what actually happened at My Lai, moral and philosophical question.s concerning laws of war, to questions about the legal procedures in a military tribunal. On the subject of military justice, Professor Taylor denied the assertion made by Captain Aubrey DanieJ, the Army prosecutor in the Cailey court- martial; that a defendent before a military tribunal benefits from an unusually strict due process procedure which a defendant before a· civilian court does not have recourse to. In response. to a question concerning the case of an unlawful order, Taylor said that if an enlisted inah feels that an order is unlawful, he is not supposed to obey it. He went on to say that no one has ever suggested that the events at My Lai were Jhe<«sillt~r ,of orders given from ,~(-'higller .level of command, My ljti -Was the result, Taylor said, · of \failures of training and ·discipline\ at a lower level; the tragedy occured in spite of the Army's basic policy in those situations. · A member of the audience pointed out that Private Meadloe, among others, had publicly announced hi.s participation in the \wasting\ of the villages at My Lai and has not been brought to trial. Taylor pointed out, that in this case, Meadloe was no longer in the Army when he made those statements and since a former member of the service who is discharged canuot be held liable for alleged crimes committed overseas, he is not subject to trial by a civilian court. It . is worthwhile, Taylor observed, to limit the behavior of combatants during war; soldiers must be· aware that there are limitations on their \license to kill.\ The laws of war \although erratic and unsure in their application,\ do save lives, and are a partial solution to continuing problem of human affairs. But their fears were Tedisco's 32 point splurge pulled him to within five points of yet another: record. He should groundless., as Union's super subs actually widened t!.+e Garnet lead by outscoring Norwich 25-20 down the stretch. · pass Rich Margison's point total of I ,409 on Saturday night to become the all-time leading scorer in the Capital District. Margison played for Albany State between 1966 and 1969. Tom Bacher was the only other Unie>n player to hit double figures, scoring II points. Geoff Walker chipped in with nine, while Mike Doyle and Bill Carmody added eight markers There should be a crazed, overflow crowd on hand at the Continued on Page 4 Bell Telephone Executive Talks On Communications Technology by SAM BRODY Bell Laboratories' executive Irwin Welber, a 1948 graduate of Union, spoke Tuesday evening on communications technology. His talk, sponsorec by the Union student chapter of the Institute of Electrical and Electronics Engineers, focused on telephone communications, concentrating on the most recent developments in satellite communications. In his opening remarks, Mr. Weiher outlined the basic mechanics of telephone operation and what he called, \the problem of the future.\ This problem stems from the fact that since 1950 the number of voice channel units has been increasing I 6% per year. By extrapolating, it is expected that approximately 1.1 billion voice channel units will be needed by 1980. (A voice channel represents both sides of a conversation.) This need is greatest in the long distance phone calls made in the U.S., and satellites represent a possible cure to the nation's coming communications problem. The satellite, Mr. Welber noted, \is a complex machine,\ and many factors in its operation ate often overlooked by the public. Initially, the satellite must be launched into orbit and placed in such a position in relation to the earth's rotation so as to rest above the desited location on earth. The power needed to operate the satellite is derived from the sun and transformed to useful energy by s0lar cells on the satellite. To protect the s·atellite from the over-exposure to the sun and simultaneously absorb sufficient energy, solar absorption panels are placed in a band around the satellite and the satellite rotates so that no single panel is. continuously exposed to .the sun's r(!ys. Since the satellite is spinning, the antenna must be rotated in the opposite direction so as to direct its transmission in the desired direction. These factors, plus many others which must be taken into account in the design and operation of satellites, result in a cost of 47 million dollars per satellite, which translates into $2.90 per mile of a single transmission. After responding to a number of more technical questions, Weiher continued by reviewing some past and recent endeavors in communications satellites. The first attempts at satellite communication were termed \stunts\ by Welber. In 1957 project SCORE launched a device which projected a New Year's message by President Eisenhower. This was followed by the ECO balloon, which had as little effectiveness as the SCORE project. Tellstar represented the first real attempt to improve communications using satellites, and Welber stated that Tellstar today is \the Model-T of communications satellites.\ Since Tellstar, many projects have emerged. The COM SAT Company has launched over ten satellites in its Intelsat program, and the FCC in a more recent move has given those able and interested an almost free hand in satellite technology, with the result that no less than fifteen companies have made endeavors in this new field, Mr. Weiher cautioned the eager engineers in attendance that \we should not and are not putting all our eggs in one basket.\ The Bell Co. is in the process of developing a Wave Guide System. This system electronically transmits messages in copper- lined pipes placed beneath the ground. This system was quoted as having the capability of transmitting l/4 billion calls per unit, with a cost of $1.00 per mile of single transmission. Certainly, the Wave Guide System may be looked toward to help with the projected increases in phone usage over the next ten years. Mr. Welber concluded by suggesting the possible t.. ~s of satellites for T.V., _emergencies and education. Finally, he described the economic and strategi'c limitations of investigating in only one area and expressed the J'tope that he and his fellow researchers would be able to devise an acceptable solution to the problems of communication which the future will bring.

' Page 2 CONCORDIENSIS, Jan. 28, 1972 Editor-in-Chief Louis .S. Snitkoff '370-4956 Features Editor Matthew Swartz Acting. Sports EditOJ Mark Mindel Photography Editor Dave Conrey Asst. Photo Editor Scott Gordon News Editor Howard Stone ··Managing Editor Do~gWong' 346-9735 Business Manager Joseph P. Achenbaum Asst. Managing Editor ' Asst. ~us~neSli Manager Gail W. Goodman M1chael Hurley . . Contributing Editors William Holleran Mike Mese~ole Peter Bickerm.an Subscription Manager Thomas J. Conley Nationai.Advt. Manager . · Mark Shuli:min · · STAFF: Jim Smith, jim Rostenberg, Chris Mandeville, Frank DeLucia, Les Goldman-, Rosemary Rice, Don Kaplan, Rita Morandi, Barbara McDonald, Patty Sipe, Jeff Weilburg, Bob Johnson, Larry Wharton, Jon Philpson, Bill Westheimer, Steve Ente, Richard Kern, AI Reisch, Joe Monkofski, George S. Bain, Jody ~aslow, Charles Long, Tim Cain, Mark MacDonald Published Tuesdays and Fridays dUnng the school year by the student body of Union College, Schen.,:ctady, N.Y •• National· Advertising Representative, National Educational Adve'rtising Service, Inc., College Publishe,s Representative, 360 Lexington Ave., N.Y.C. Editorial office, Old Gym, Union College. Publication Office, The World Publications; 771 State Street, ~chenectady; N.Y. 12307, 346-2356. Entered in tlte Schenectady post office as Second Class Mail Matter. Subscription 20 _ cent_s .a copy. $8 a year delivered an~where in the United States. ORANGE PERil by MATTHEW SWARTZ Contradictions are problems we all face every day, making the struggle toward maintaining a sense of being (of identity, if you will) an arduous task indeed. Each hour, if we were to bother to study time intervalS that small, is packed with infinite details on which we must draw conclusions. Perhaps the most confusing hour of all is the one that includes a glance or two (a double take, I'm sure} at the newspaper, even if it's this glorious campus periodical, paragon of confusion. What the hell is right? Reports show this, numbers p:rove that, fact-finding committees come up · with God-knows what kind ef crap. I'm not talking about -standards, I'm talking about professional camouflage. Yellow journalism. A pulling of wool over eyes that are already closed._ On the very same day of this week, Monday if I'm not mistaken, The New York Times began running a series of articles a leading State Department authority on China,\ concerning his recent return to the Mainland after twenty .. six years and an article on James Buckley's current ''fact-finding tout\ of Asia. The titles of the articles by Service ran {I lost the first), A ·Conscious Pride in China's. more like plaster dolls than anything -e'lse (consider the allegory there to the US, please). The police are un~med and, except for the traffic cops (yes, they do have cars), they are few and inconspicuous, Say what you want and will about \stifled Continued on Pa~e 3 Edward A. C(jrbett, '73; a philosophy major from Glens Falls; New York, died last Monday after a brief iUneS$. Funeral services were held ytl5terday morning, in Glens Falls •. Corbett, who had been under .. ospitalization, died sudde!JIY on Monday morning of pulmonary embolism, de5;pit;e other rumors. --~------ ....... ---~. ' ~written by John S. Service, \one~ Development, Life in China Obviously Better, and China's Very Unstarchy A.-my and •. dealt with ·the many and fascinating changes that have occurred in the People's Republic af~er it closed the · doors Co·m.modore (Matthew) Pe'fl'Y opened. The author described the life there as \egalitarian exemplified by everyone being·called \comrade.\ there is no · bitter ·poverty with life being \frugal by American standards, and 'austere.\ Women have: all occupations open to them with equal pay and ·benefits such as maternity leave; infant care and nursery school - a far cry from the China you see in the movies with the women loo,king To the Editor: ts in room rates (excuse me - Concordy '-':as four pages lopg men students don't. need lounges, on January 21st. One page was kitchenettes, security guards, and sports, fine. In the rest of the lots of singles). But that's not issue the thirty-eight of you gave. Cordy's fault -no one ever asks us two feature articles about us - we only live here, so again good old UColl - both of which. we'll let the·housing office tell us were important to us - even tho' at the last minute what we're both issues have been discussed going to get - when it's too late. here for a loeg time, will No mention that Centrex is con,ti11ue to be discussed for a being installed but we won't have long time, and our non~opipions an. opportunity to attach private will. be ignored by the room phones to .it.-; even i:f we. pdministration for a long time. are willing to· absorb the cost. Besides that, Matt Swartz No mention of the Student wrote an excellent review, AI Union, the abandoned cars in the Reisch told us that yes there is parking lots, the \take heed\ still a world outside of signs in the Bookstore (never Schenectady and summarized mind Ryan O'Neill (sic) posters, what we \missed some wit (?)- playboy puzzles, shitty wrote an article about Greece notebooks and stationary (sic) that, besides being obvious filler, and two registers open during wouldn't even have made my~ . book_ week ;-_who pays for that Junior. High Schoot ~paper,: J'; • i~-yentory o~ j~~k 7- we ,do, ib · student in LEITERTO · TilE. hlgl'!er boO'k pnces); and .lack .of EDITOR (sic) brouglit to light upperclass meal options (such as an interesting thought - maybe thirty dinner tickets). we shouldn't be hitting each I guess there was nothing else other since we ihink we are to write about in· January 21st's mature people, and BLITHER. Concordy - once you've told us Blither is a very needed function about \Maximus Super., what and I'm under-whelmed to know can you say about a 177-year-old that Eta Kappa Nu is giving in to collgge that died - of apathy. those of us who almost went to Jim Alberg '74 R.P.I., and is giving slide rule lessons. Great - no editorial. The thirty-eight of you couldn't bother. No mention that some malingering administrator ordered quartz iodine lamps. to blind everyone on campus and destroy any aesthetic value that was left. (\Just keep your hands. in the air and no one will get hurt.\) Mter all how could they know that over 40% of the street lights here don't work - after all he, and all of maintenance, i~ave before dark. No mention that Hillel was granted permission to look at o4r registrar cards to see what religion we are, even though this was expressly against college policy regarding student files. (But excuse me - it's conflict of interest time - our Editor in Chief and Asst. Managing Editor are co~presidents of Hillel.) No mention that the administration has changed the interpretation of the withdrawal from courses rule - without changing the rule. No mention of what's going to happen in housing next year or why, even though we all knoyv girls are treated equally at Union, the only equal treatment they get ... * * * . Editor's Reply: My discontent and frustration with yo1.1r .letter is not the result of a dislike for criticism, but rather the embodiment of an adverse reaction to personal assault when it is uncalled for, arrogance :whe·n it is not n,eeded and sa.tiric · comment which is neither satiric nor comment, but only a misrepresentation of the truth. Even as Editor-in-Chief, I am not so myopic as to be blind to the shortcomings of Concordy as a campus newspaper, and being fully aware of possible areas for improvement, I find your letter to be an extremely demeaning attack on those of us who care enough about this college to try to put out a newspaper. The , .. non-opinions\ you express in the letter. range from ridiculously picayune critiques of various campus pains in the ass, to legitimate gripes concerning certain problems with which all of us must contend. From the top, if all of ·the thirty-eight people named on the masthead were. office and writing personnel, we could easily double onr productioD;, in terms of copy, advertising, and publication, but, alas, this is not the case. Photography and business staffs, certainly necessary to any newspaper, comprise a large portion of the masthead listings. Now, I a~ . sure you. are wondering_ · whei:e · our· pictu·res have been. Suffice it t6 say that daring the last one and one-half years, we have occupied three different darkrooms on campus, ·and each move has taken several weeks to execute. Th.e ·article on Greece (and there have been several) is. promotion for the Mountebanks and not filler. Your gripe against Hillel is inore vindictive than realistic, although I suppose that is excusable even for a quasi- member such as yourself, but it really has no place in Concordy. The \peeking\ at the registrar cards (likened by some to the release of the Pentagon Papers) was done with explicit administrative approval, ahd if there is a school policy concerning such abominable deeds, the administration · - is apparently as oblivious to it as I. The conflict of interest is merely a figment of your imagination; since there has been no crime, there need be no investigation. Your comments o:rt housing are particularly interesting, arid they would be plausible as well, but those of us who know anything about the Union College that existed--before you arrived are aware of the events which led us to the present situation. The lounges in the men's dormitories were once replete with furniture and televisions, untiJ the men decided how snazzy their rooms Would l()ok with· various lounge chairs, lamps and sofas. As recently as the spring ternt of 1970 the Davidson lounge had a television and a seating capacity of somewhere around fifty. Kitchenettes? When Fox and Davidson . were being built, the campus was polled and the overwhelming serttiment was against kitchenettes in the male dormitories. Addition of kitchenettes at this Jime is prob~bly too costly ~ to , be practical, and who would be willing to clean the beer off the kltchen floor? Security guards are really not needed in the men•s dorms 1 ar~. they? How many coeds go around beating on the men, as opposed to the number of men who are always looking for \horny girls.\ The Student Union has been discussed in Concordy ad nauseum, and a pictorial essay on the abandoned car (which is less of a nuisance than the guys who have · to dri've their dates from Davidson to the Field House for the basketball games, to assert their , masculinity) is being planned. There are lots of things which can be said about the Bookstore', as soon as we find someone who will take the time to say them. However, one . thing which cannot be said is that the inventory of junk is paid for by higher book prices, because it isn't. The markup on Ryan O'Neal posters, et al, is severat times that of books. Buried somewhere amidst all of your pet peeves is the idea that, perhaps, Concordy is not the best campus newspaper in the country. Ariy journalist can tell you that the 'introduction of a fresh, new approach (the key to journalistic improvement) ~ is impossible when the same six or seven people write every issue. Equally as impossible is a high degree of thoroughness in finding all the news. I will submit, however; that the thirty-eight of us work very hard to do as much as we can to serve the entire student body with competence. For us, it's a job, not an ego trip. If what is :really bothering you is that the bookstore has \shitty notebooks,\ then you have nothing to say. If you are ,disturbed because Concordy is inadquate, then we will be happy to listen to constructive criticism for improvement. If you do not; accept this challenge because \nobody reads the rag, anyway,\ you are deluding yourself, as well as stifling freedom of the press by denying the college community the right to read an alternative opinion. - L.S.S. SPECIAL DISCOUNT To Union Students GEORGE;S MUSIC STOR:£ 509 State Street To the U. Col. Comunity: As a dog owner and animal lover, I make a plea · to the college co~unity to solve our dog problem rather than eliminate it. By this I mean that · rather than summarily declaring that we cannot live with dogs, let's find solutions whereby Union College .can remain a haven for animals. If we, as· a com(Ilunity . which promotes the searcli for knowledge, cannot learn: to live with one of nature's most domesticized ·animals,. consider the implications. We are in effect saying that modern man cannot live harmoniously with other animals. While we at U. Col. would rather outlaw dogs than be both~red to make sure that dogs don't enter the eating areas, modern society Would rather plow under a forest than take the time and bother to figure out how to build houses in the forests (if that ain't true, check out the places where your friends and relatives live). In other words, how can we expect society at large to protect Wildlife when we of a learned commurlity cannot be bothered to learn to live W'if~ domesticized beasts? · Sincerely, WiUiam B. Cook '73 TUTORING AND GUIDANCE~ . SINCE 1938 ~ . MCAT- OAT LSAT -ATGSB GRE * Preparation for tests required for admission to graduate and profes· sional schools *Six and twelve session courses * Small groups · *Voluminous material for home study prepared by experts ih each field· *Lesson schedule can be tailored to meet individual needs. Lessons can be spread over a period of several months to a year, or for out of town students, a period of one week •Opportunity for review of past lessons via tape at the center Special Com pact. Courses during Weekends -lntersessions Summer Sessions STANLEY H. KAPLAN EDUCATIONAL CENTER LTD. 1675 East 16th Str,.t Brooklyn, N. Y ~-- ~~· . (212) 336-5300 :t:.'-14 . (516)538-4555 ~ ~ DAYS, EVENINGS, WEEKENDS ~ Branches in principal cities in U.S. The Tuluring School with lhe Nati~n wide Reputation ·. It . sure the Am Wlii But COD' rad imp eve1 and the \Co sen! mer patl perJ For 1 the cho w. Bol and Sar per imr ver: con bot cc ac \r Pf fo th th h~ ef O' tr vi ' a< Ir at si1 bt A J~ ec ru aJ jo H ta dl tr tr \ fc in St f~ tt 0 o: lt tl a1 F c fi c Sl 2: s

CONCORDIENSIS, Jan. 28, 1972 Page 3 Co_untry-Western Show .· Brings Humor To WRUC The Sarah Lawrence College Women's Group is extending an invitation to you and all members of your community to attend a Women's Weekend February 11-13. The next session of the Student-Faculty Bridge tournament will be held on February 8 in the Hale House Faculty Lounge at 7:4S p.m. All those interested in attending are welCome. by MARVIN VERDI It is tare when a work of att surely and . completely captures. the noble simplicity of the American Dream; the be~t <Jf Wliilman is an obvious example. But it is even rarer when this control is exhibited weekly on a- radio show; this almost impossible feat is accomplished, every Tuesday night between 10 and 12 P;M. on WRUC. Under the intentionally modest title, \Country-Western Show,\ ,two sensitive, sophisticated young men capture the idealism and pathos of the American myth as perfectly as the wt:sterns of John Ford. These two disc jockeys began the concept of their show by choosing the pseudonyms· Zeb W. Groggins and Lester :X. Boheen. As you know, Lester and Zeb were the fourth and fifth Samma'rians to call Onan :a pervert after he committed his immoral act. Zeb and Lester's very minor role in reinforcing conventional morality symbolizes both the American ideal of many minor ~;ontributors to the great accomplishment and this nation's current reactionary retreat, The X in Mr. BClheen's name is a tribute to the actor X. Brand, -who for many years portrayed Yancy Detringer's Indian companion Pahoa. Though Mr. Groggins and Mr. Eoh:een obviously do most of the actual -work on the program, they have cre!lted a rich embroidery of characte.rs a,s ,complex and rewarding as the American experience itself. The pioneer -woman and her spiritual offspring are embodied in Cousin Katy Calhoun, whose mellifluous tones weekly communicate . the same recipes that enabled our forefathers to cro!!S this great 'land. The tension between good and evil that is currently burning the American fabric is portrayed in the .show•s clashes between o;•sugar Pete\ (the embodiment of good) and Sniveling Silas '\Weasel'' . :McCr~etcen (th,e embodiment of evil); You can lear.n more frClm these two about ·the true pai.n ipherent in our nation's experience · than ·from Don't .Let t'he A:nt:iWar Movement Die De·feated byDAN McNETT Today over 73% of the Ame:dcan People are oppose!f to the continuation of the war in Southeast Asia. (Gallup Poll) Over 65%, according to a November 1971 Hartis poll, believe that the war is \morally wrong.\ In spite of this an.d many other in.dications of the people's will, Nixon has revealed that he intends to keep a U.S. force of some 40,000•50;000 in Vietnam, (not counting the thousands who operate and service U.S. aircraft in Thailand and the 7th Fleet), and contunue the air -war over Indochina indefinitely. Many people who have been active in the anitwar movement have now tired of the struggle, believing that there is no way to eff~c~ the p~rv~rs~ ~;nd qeceitfu! rnen whq govern our, coul].try. This overly pessimistic view is both unwarranted and self-defeating. It is true that the goal of U, S. policy in Southeast Asia, a military v~ctory, is the same today as it wa~ under the Kennedy and.Jnhnson administrations. However· the nature of the war has changed. Instead of \search and destroy\ :missions there is \Vietnamization\ and the computerized air war. Despite a deteriorating military situation in both Cambodia and I.aos, U.S. ground troops have not been used. Why? One of the things that haunts Nilcon is the memory of May 1970. After the invasion of Camb<Jdia and the murders at Kent and Jackson State, hundreds of tho11sands of students t~ok over the educational institutions to use then as centers of antiwar activities and to organize mass protests in the streets .. If a similar situation · arose today, there is a strong possibility that the student would be joined by millions of others who are throughly disillusioned with the war and the related social and economic programs. Nixon hopes to prevent any overt demonstration of public opposition to the war by~ means of a propaganda barrage that awwwwill surround his visits to Peking and MoscQw, and continue throughout the election campaign. By November th~re s.Potild be p~~c.tically no discernable difference between Republican ·and Democratic pronouncements on the war. . · The best way to work for an end to th~ war is t.o continue the tactic of mass demonstrations. Attendance at a mass, legal, peaceful demon~tration is usually the frrst step that an individual takes in translating opposition to the war into action. Tens of thousands of trade unionists attended the massive April 24th demonstration in Washington last year. The GI's and the industrial workers are the for()es that can end the war and turn the country around. We must involve them. The Student Mobilization Conunittee (SMq, allied with the National Peace .Action Coalition (NPAC), believes that it can win these decisive forces to its pwgram by continuing to call for mass demonstrations. NPAC has called for a mass demonstration in New York City on April 22nd. The Uaion College Student Mobilization Committee is building support for April 22nd through the following program: - • First of all, we are planning a campaign to help publicize the facts about the computerized all' war that is killing and maiming thousands of people, mainly ci-vilians, every week in Indochina. One of the actions we have called for is a peaceful, legal picketing of the local armed forces recruiting stations starting February 2nd in Schenectady. Hopefully picketing and leafleting will continue throughout the winter and spring to help build for April 22nd. Secondly, we are asking lo~al b(gh school and college students to attend the National Student Antiwar Conference to be held on February 25-27th at Washington Irving Iligh School in NewYork City. A special national teach-in on the air war is planned for the first night of the conference. Thirdly, the SMC hopes to work with the Schenectady Peace. Center in mobilizing both the colle1:1e and the community to support and attend the mass demonstration in New York on April 22nd. Although the effect may not be immediately apparent, I believe that this demonstration will not only contribute towards ending the war but will also deter the U.S. from further imperialistic adventures. * * * * Editors Note: Dan McNett is a member o/ the Shaffer Library Staff- ·· · months of newspaper reading. Finally; there is Sweet Krypto, the· dog .. -The place of the hOUnd in our culture has been brilliantly explained by our own David . Stineback's article that appeared in Highlights For ChilcJ!'en, \We All Killed Old Yeller,\ a silver lining to the publish or perish thundercloud. Woven into this tapestry of the American scene is the most sensitive and perceptive cou11try- . and-western music. From the open honesty and naivete' of the Carter family to the complex philosophical tracts of Merle Haggard, this music speaks to the visceral and intellectual in all America; from the ignorant truck ~river to the hippie he is beating up, this music tells us of our common identification as Americans and helps define the plan of which we are all a part. An example of how these deceptively simple lyrics reach us all can be found in Merle Haggard's ·love song to his roots, \Okie from Muskogee.\ The chorus begins, \Fm proud to be an Okie .from- . Muskogee/ A place where . even squares can have a ball,\ In. those two lines, the hopes and · divisions that torture America are; eloquently expressed. We aU would like to be proud of our heritage and country, but many of us cannot; so, this song becomes at once an · affirmation for the faithful and a ·pea for something many cannot possess. The second line scores the cults and sects that make it impossible ~r this country to share a common experience, in fact, to love one another. Do you really believe Merle doesn't know that · \ball\ is an underground , synonym for sexUal intercourse? Who Zeb. W. Groggins and Lester X. Boheen really are is immaterial; . what is important is that theh: country-imd-western show continue to sing its song of · the people and the myth. It is the great privilege of this campus that we are allowed to listen to this weekly_ tone poem of and to The weekend will consist of lectures, workshops and activities dealing with the women's movement. Topics of discussion will include women in the arts, ·women in professions, women in goverrimimt, and· women and their health. We shall be showing films from the Newsreel Co-op and Kate Millet's Three Lives. On SatUrday night there will be a women's dance (the only activity from which men are excluded in the entire weekend). There will be no charge for any · events during the weekend. Forfurther details, contact us: · The Sarah Lawrence Women's · Group, Sarah Lawrence College, Bronxville, New York 10708 * * * * This Friday, Jan. 28, at 8:30 in the Old Chapel, the U. Coil. Coffeehouse will present Boston blues and ragtime guitarist, Paul Geremia, along with Union student Sue Bindelglas. Admission this week is $1 (does that mean we get twice as many donuts, Maude?), but ye olde coffee and ye freshe donuts are still fr.eeeeeeeeee! . * * *· * The copies of the Report of the ad hoc Committee on the Freshman Year are on reserve in the Library and 50 additional copies have been placed in the catalogue area for those who wish their own. In addition, all Faculty · and · Student Senate members have copies. * * * \' Are you against the 60% Tenure Limit? Please help fight it! Sign the petition at the Circulation desk in the library. * * * * The results of the last tournament were as follows: l. Bob Lavin- Marc Maller 2. R. RusseU~J. Walker 3. Mike Levinson-Danny Liu 4. Bob Feller-Dave Wagner * * * * Ushers are needed for the Carly Simon/ Mickey Newbury concert February 4. If interested, please sign name and telephone number in Student Activities. You will be informed by phone by Feb. 3 (Thursday). * \' * * The Student Senate will meet at 1 p.m. in HU 115 on Tuesday, . Feb. first. At t:hat meeting questionnaires will be given to senators for; dispersal in their living units Wednesday and Thursday evening. The questionnaires will ask students _ whether they favor the progosed split-three calendar or whether they would rather stick with our current calendar. A fact sheet will also be enclosed enumerating the pros and cons of each proposal. * * * \' Phi Sigma Kappa will have a coffeehouse Sat. nite, Jan; 29, featuring Paul ·Delfin, just after the varsity basketball game. Admission is 25¢. (All profits go to the American Cancer Society.) * * * • Attention students from Union's fall term in France, 1971: Everyone from the group is invited to our first (of many) Soirees Monday, January 31 at 8:3'0 P.M. at 'Aipha· Delia Phl.· \Prenez quelque choses de boire et manger. A Bientot.\ \' * * \' Go to the Bookstore for your supply of stereo tapes - Good Selection. * * * * America. Call ''CALL FOR ·ACTIO·N'; For Individual Assistance People in the Capital District do have a place they can go with problems about crime, drugs, landlords, agencies and stores. They can- call CALL FOR ACTION 462'-6445 Monday through Friday between 11 a.m. and l p.m. Volunteer operators will listen sympathetically to problems and refer callers to the proper agency or individual for assistance. Call for Action, an independent affiliate of the National. Urban Coalition is operating successfully in most of ,the major cities across the nation. It is an information, referral and ombudsman serviee that attempts to bridge the gap between the private_ citizen and public and private agencies. According to the co-chairmen Mrs. Robert G. Blabey of Slingerlands and Mrs. Milton T. Alpert of Albany the tri-cities is the last city grouping of this size in the state to have \Call for Action.\ CaU for Action is the brainchild of Ellen Straus, wife of R. Peter Straus of Radio Station WMCA in New York City. Over 200;000 calls have been handled by the station since it began in Feb. '1963. The majority of the calls deal with housing, consumer fraud and health problems. Locally this unique service will have offices ·in WROW. The statio.n will broadcast Orange Perii. .. Cont' d. Continued from Page 2 individualism\ and \''the nonexistence of free choice,\ but what reason would Service have to lie? Our wonderful Senator was in Taipei several days ago at a World Freedom Rally there. Buckley, in the conservative tradit~on, made air waves .fFous by B1lly, lauded the TalWr.m.::'!e for the fortitude they have shown since their expulsion from the UN and likened them to a ''vibrant, dedicated force holding high the torch of freedom, not just for your brothers on the mainland b1,1t for all who live in the shadow of the greatest of all . tyrannies, Communism.\ Applause, applause, but protect them from what? Ah, Dick Cavett, would you only see fit to cut the Academy Awards crap long enough to pit Buckley vs. Service. With this in mind, whirling and vibrating in a chaotic spin toward entropy, l prepare myself for Mr. Dennis Peskin, also recently returned from the People's Republic. Not all answers may be found in an ivory towered eggshell. announcements invitmg Usteners to call the special Call for Action phone number 462-6445. Calls, however, are not broadcast and all information is kept confidential. The purpose is to cut the red tape facing the average person with a pressing problem. Records will be kept of each inquiry. If no action is taken the volunteer will call herself. If agencies or bureaucrats do not respond the radio station has the perogative to give an editorial nudge. Jotln W. Gardner, former Sec. of Health, Education and Welfare describes .. Call for Action\ as a kind of \unofficial ombudsman\ designed to make bureaucracy more responsive to a citizen's complaints. Gardner, chairman of tiie- Urban Coalition feels the concept has a major role ·to play. \It is one thing we can do to help· combat the sense of powerlessness that is so prevalent in our large cities,\ Gardner says. Thomas B. Watkins, \Call for Action\ coordinator at WHEN- AM-TV in Syracuse, New York, points out that the successful resolution of a caller's problem accomplishes tWo things. \First he gets help for his immediate need,\ Watkins says, \but that's probably not as important in the long run as the subtle change that comes about in his attitude. He sees that government can really help him - that City Hall isn't necessarily an enemy.\

. I Page 4 CONCORDIENSIS, Jan. 28, 1972 . , . '' . ~ ' Concordy Sports Sports Profile by MARK MINDEL This week's SPORTS PROFILE focuses on junior forward Mike Doyle of the l 0-2, Garnet Cagers, Mike graduated from Linton's (of Schenectady) 1969, 19-3 team, ranked third in the State. As at Union he plays in the shadow of Tedisco, Doyle played out of the limelight in high school behind the bigger name players, specifically, 6'10\ Sid Edwards, now at Houston. His team won its last ll games to begin Linton's amazing string of 38 victories, spanning over three seasons. In his senior year, to the surprise of many area sports fans; Mike Doyle was named player of the year in the Class A League. Many people, myself included, were asking themselves \Who is Mike Doyle!' In two quick yeats, I have learned a lot about Mike Doyle, and now I know why he was awarded the honor- he deserved it. As a Doyle led the 7-9 Cagers ·in scoring and MIKE DOYLE, who was named to the weekly ECAC .. -Divi-silJn· .· Ill All-Star Basketball Squad for his · - · ~ peiformances against Wes{eyiln~and R. P.J. : · rebounding. He scored 256 points, averaging 16 points per contest.· Last year, as a sophomore, Mike led the Dutchmen in rebounding with 252 caroms. He was second to the one and only Tedisco in scoring with 354 points for a 16.9 point average. Although many consider Mike a low-talent, but highly aggressive and competitive hoopster, he led the team in field-goal percentage' last year, hitting on a fabulous 59.4% of his attempts. True, these were not mostly long jump shots, but this statistic was high enough to have ranked him in the top 20 nationally, had he hit on 12 more· shots at the same rate. (Mike rammed home 133 markers last year, and 150 is the minimum to gain national attention.) This season Mike is once again the team's top ball-hawk off the boards, having pulled down 121 rebounds in 12 games. If he increases his rate to about 12 per game, he has an outside shot at setting a new career record in rebounding. The present record is 815. To date Mike has 373 rebounds in a season and a half, with the same amount of playing time remaining. · Over the first eleven games this year, Mike was the leading rebounder eight times, while topping both the scoring and rebounding stats on two occasions. What his observers think of Mike is a good indication of the contribution he makes. First off, Coach Walters on Doyle: \Maybe he can't jump or shoot that well, all I know is that he completely neutralizes his man and is one of the best competitors I've ever coached.\ He is well liked by all the players and is unselfish on the court. In fact one of the main reasons for the success of the Garnet cagers is the fact that they are all friends, on and off the court. Talking to WGY radio men Steve Fitz and Bill Duffy, who do the Union play-by-play, you cannot help but feel the admiration they hold for not only Doyle but the whole Dutchmen team. ••1 thihk it is hard to take any one man on a team like Union's and say who does more than anyone else,\ says Fitz. ••Doyle usuallyneutralizeswhoever he plays and ,although Coach Gary Walters calls him a garbage man and wonders what kind of talent he has, I think anybody who can do all the things that Doyle does and do them as well as Doyle does has a lot of talent.\ Bill Duffy looks at Doyle in a different light. ••From. watching Union play I think DQyle's personality is important. He picks the team up so much emotionally. He has the confidence and strength to go up with you and get the ball away from you as many times as you get it away from him and he will not be intimidated under the hoards.\ Mike's best game this season came against We$leyan where he. scored 23 points and pulled down 12 rebounds, both high team totals for the night. He thrilled the crowd by hitting on his first 11 foul shots which gave the team a big emotiona:llift. His career game highs are 28 points against Rochester and 22 rebounds against St. Lawrence last year. seamas : 2 Mile Record Thursday night the Williams College indoor track team dedicated their brand new, tartan- floored field house with a triple meet against Hamilton and Union. Unfortunately, (or ' fortunately), the Union thinclads spoiled the dedication by .defeat- . ing Williams, 56-53, while a smaU but very talented Hamilton squad finished a distant third with 28 points. The Garnet quickly piled up a sizeable lead in the field .events, largely due to a double, by Bill Mowery in the 35 pound weight throw, and the shot put. Although Bill had never threwn the 35 pounder, he heaved it 27 feet for the win. The 600 yeard dash provided little excitement, as chunky co- captain Rick Jaszczak blew everyone else off the track. However, Union's lead quickly dwindled to one point, 41-40, as the Garnet were shut out in the mile run ~d scored _,.only one point in the 6.0 yard hurdles. Coach Michelsen later admitted that he thought he was going to have an ulcer. The two mile run, a strong point for both Hamilton and Williams, was becoming a crucial event. In the early part of the race, two Williams runners went out well ahead of the pack, followed by two Hamilton contestants. Union's Seamas Johnson (Shay' muss) settled in the back of the pack, waiting for the right time to make his move. With just two laps left; Se'3:tnas turned it on, passing both of Williams' thinclads, and one of Hamilton's runners. His time, 9:36.2, 'is a new Union CoUege record, although one which will not stand very long, since Johnson. has almost fm~r years left in whiqh to be~ter it. In addition a number of other Oamet distance men wilt be chasing the mark. Union easily won the mile relay, clinching the victory, although one runner, unable to · count up to two laps, a-lmost ruined it for us. The meet produced one other school record, as Williams' Mike Mertz shattered Williams; old high jump mark of 6' 2\. He won the · event at 6' 6W'. Other encouraging . results for Union were the one-two fiNish in the p~le vault for Dave Ricks and the \Floater\, Bill Clayton; the higb Jumping and long jumping of John DeStt!fano; and Davt! White's 6.65 60 yard dash. Also, manager George 'Fussner did his usual fine job in handling the meet details. The Garnet record now stands at 3-0,. with Lehigh repres(!nting the only remaining serious threat to an undefeated season. The mile relay will .compete tonight at Madison Square. Garden in Ne;w York, hi the Millrose Games. The next meet, against Lehigh and R.P.I., will be on Friday, February 11, at Union's field house. H.OOP WIN· Continued Continuedft:om fage 1 Fieldhouse · for . the • Williams game, a contest which is an absolute must for Coach Walters' charges. The 7-3 Ephmen, of course, slid by the Dutchmen last season irt Williamstown 92a85 and in the process ruined Union's hopes for an I:-fCAA tourney bid. Revenge would be sweet, especia:lly for Tedisco, who is eage.rly a waiting another confrontation with Eph guard Vern Manley. Last year Tedisco burned Manley for 38 points, but Manley himself had a fine shooting night and helped tp lead the Ephs to the win. · As Bill Duffy and Steve Fitz urged on Wednesday night, come early if you want to get a seat. Frosh W.in by FRANK DeLUCIA Merm.en Gain First Victo:ry Complementing their com- petent floor generalship with percentage shooting, the Dutchmen yea-rlings defeated a balanced Siena J.V. five 74-67, on Wednesday. The big win avenged an earlier loss this ·season to the Indians. Doing what is expected by Coach Bill Scanlon, BiH Underhill and Kevin Crawford directed the club with precision passing and steady ball control. by ~AU!- CONN~~S The Garnet swiin squad, plagued with flu absentees in the past, returned to full strength Wednesday night to overpower a gallant team from Norwich. Union easily handed a 30-point loss to the now 0-3 Cadets. The Dutchmen, by winning 72-41, move to a l-2 situation. Union's Mermen captured firsts in nine of 13 e.vents. Co- captains Tom Klinkow, winner of the 200-yard free-style (2:02.6), and Tom Hough, victor in the 100-yard free-style (:53.9), teamed again with Bruce Eggleston and. 200-yard Individual Medley wilmer Mitch Weisburg (2:18.7) to. sport a 3:42,0 in the 400-yard free relay. Dutchman Alex Bodenstab won the 200-yard breaststroke (2:35.6) some 20 seconds ahead · of Norwich captain Dave Chevalier. Backstroker Dave Bernat captured first place in the 200-yard event with a time of 2:39.3. Jim Morrell of Norwich upset Coach McMurray's squad in the very-close 50-yard freestyle with a time of :24.5. Dutchmen Tom Hough and Mark Shulman followed closely in the decision with :24.7 and :24.9 respectively. John Murphy, a newcomer to the Union team just this week, placed an admirable third after two Norwich entries in the 500- yard freestyle. Although Coach McMurray's squad has been lucky in its ability to gather the talents of several of the competitive swimmers who come to Union, the vast majority have refused the invitation to swim. This situation has resulted in a squad lacking breadth and depth in all the events, with many team members wimming in their non- specialities. If this continues, hopys for a good season appear slim. The Garnet travel ·to po.werful Kings Point Sa~urday, and return to fave Trinity Wednesday at 3:00 p.m. in Foote Pool. . The backcourt pair also contributed 10 points. Meanwhile the. big guns up front were anything · but silent, with Charlie Gugliotta playing his best ball this_ year with 28 points and 17 boards. A revived Jack Comerford sent 22 points home, with forward Joe Kenney netting 10~ Union led, at the half 41-31 playing blackboard \D\ most of the way. Praising his team's performance, Scanlon injected, \We played 25 minutes of good defense.\ Come Saturday; if that figure approaches the thirty mark, Wifiiams could be in for a surprise. ' . \'· . TUTORS NEEDED IN MATH & CHEMISTRY APPLY between 2 and 4 AT JUTORING OFFICE, OLD CHAPEL ' '\ \For three Generations.' Those Who Know ... Hove been recommending HERSHEL MAURICE B WALTER ''3 Uttion Graduates in· Graubarf famiiYt 166 JA'Y ST. FOR· 'HONEST SERVI<;E AND GOOD )fWELR'f

