Ii .. ,- founded at Union College in 1877 Vol.102, No.lJ Fdday, November 3, 1972 20 cents X--Ray Astrono,my Fighting Within by SCOtT REITER \X-Ray Astronomy: A Young, Exciting, Rapidly-Expanding Science\ wa:s the subject of a lecture given by Dr. Walter H. G. Lewin of M. I. T. last Tuesday afternoon. Besides giving an enlightening and entertamwg discourse, br. Lewin illustrated the title Very effectively. The System by PHYLLIS R. EDELMAN Bureaucratic red-tape The birth of X-ray astronomy took place in 1962. Thus began a search for sources of X~rays outside ef our solar system. (The sun emits some X-rays.) This l¢d to the discovery of a star called Sco X-1 which emits a thousand times more X-rays than our sun. The fight for identification of various sources is still going on. lvlorJ· Anne Krupsak. candidate fvr State Senator .fi·om the /om! ilistricl . . experienced hy those of us v. ho play a limited mle in the gon~rnmental operations of our country is even more frustrating to our own legislati\L' representatives. This point \\as made clear to those of us hearing Ms. Mary Anne Krupsak speak before the Political Forum on Tuesday, October 31st. photo by Jeff Weilburg At the beginning of the lecture, Dr. Lewin stated that he believed in the inseparability of science and art. It is interesting to note that . he cooperated m the designi.ng of the rainbow illuminated during the closing ceremony of the summer Olympics in Munich. College Senate Meets Later on, with the tender story of the graduate student and his balloon, Dr. Lewin illustrated the relation between art and science with the slide of the balloon floating off into the suns.et. This balloon was actually part of an attempt to locate emittors of X-rays. At the end of the balloon was a large and expensive telescope.· It was Friday, October 13, 1967, and as: the balloon reached the Jet Stream's winds and -70° cold a graduate student saw his PhD. burst with the balloon. Eventually, the balloon was launched successfully. A problern did develop, however, when it came time to retrieve the telescope in the Australian desert where it landed. One not only had to ask the bushman permission to be on his land, but also had to speak to him at a time when he was sober. If the balloon story failed to point up the rapidity at which this science is expanding, there are the figures given by Dr. Lewin that as of two weeks ago there were 150 identified X-ray sources, not to mention three or four discovered last week. When Dr. Lewin showed a slide of the strongest .known X- Continuedon Page 2 by DAVID WAGENKNECHT On October 31, at 4:30P.M., the second meeting of the College Senate was called to urder. The first item discussed was the Freshman Year Report. desj)'ite President Martin's suggestion that the order of the aEenda be broken so that sev.eral matters of lesser importa11ce might be immediately dealt with and gotten out of the way. , . The, Freshman Year· Report is a twenty page' compilation of the findings. opm10ns. and recommendations of the Ad Hoc Committee on the Freshman Year. The significance of this Report in regards to the College Senate rests primarily in fourteen recommendations. each of which is to be individually discussed by the College Senate. and either accepted. a mended. or rejected. The first <Jf the recommendations to be ~iscusscd states. in esse11ce. that five-week. interdisciplinary courses centered around a narrow topic should be offered to students. A referral motion. to request investigation alld possible enactment concerning the creation of these five-week courses by the Comprehensive Education Board. was passed. Tbe next recommendation reads: 'That each student be inf<>rmed, at the time of receiving the name of his advisor, that he may choose a new advisor at any time, provided only that the student obtain the c<>nsent of the prospective advisor.\ After some discussion, it was decided that this should be further qualified by requiring the approval of the department chairman. This decision was mad~ in the interest of keeping the advisors' adv.isee load balanced. With .an amendment to include this further qualification, the recommendation was accepted and passed. • • • • • • • ... Recommendation Number Ten. providing lor the institution of student advisors in addition to the existent faculty ad\ iwrs. was met with some discussion as well as with a counter-propmal. A motion to accept the original was fairly LjUicklJ- passed. Next to he considered wm Recommendation Twelve. This suggests that a student-fawlty committee he created t.o .prepare an ad\ i~m\ ''Reference ManuaL\ It was overwhelmingly pa,,cd. with the amendment that it h.: prepared hy the Administration rather than hy a studcnt-facult} committee. The final recommendation <.:onsiderl'd at thi, meeting was Number Four. This suggl·sts that a statement of policy he placed in th.: t:nion College Register. to the effect that in most case' a student may he gin his (her) major Juring the first term ol the sophomore year. and still complete the requirements for the major within four yea''· Considerable discussion arose wncerning thi~ article. Objections to placing such a stateml'nt ol policy in the Register were voiced. which \H:rc rooted in the idea that such a statement would lend the college an undesirable image. one of wishy- washyness in regards to declaration of majors. A motion to accept this recommendation was passed despite such objections. Two additional. brief motions were passed quickly before adjournment. The first of these was the motion to cease the current practice of taping all meetings of the College Senate. The second of these was the substitution of the terms \Student Body\ and \Steering Committeee' for the term .. Student Senate\ in certain by\laws. The meeting was then.adjourned. • • • • • • • • • The Schenectady Protect Your Environment Club (PYE) recently undertook a cost analysis on the feasibility of Union College purchasing recycled paper, instead of tne present virgin paper use. The study showed tltat purcha:sin.g recycled paper would increase _paper costs approximate!!' SO%, from $5,000 to $7,500. The College has ex:pressed am interest in switching to recycled paper, if the cost (JiffereiJtial can be decreased. Since the differential canmot be reduced at the purchasing level, the most obvious option is to (:Urtail paper waste at Union. The campus activi-ty inforn.ation sheet, Union's Week, currently has a press run of 3,Cl00 copies a week,\ or 90,000 ·copies per school year. A La111ont House spokestnan stated that one copy is produced for every Union student, and two copies for every facp'lty me111b.:r. This is a gross overuse of paper. The·jnformation purpose of Union's Week could be served by publishing one ~OJ:»Y for every dormitory floor, fraternity, and faculty member. This would reduce this. aspect of paper use by 90%., to a.ppro:ximately 300 copies per week. Through such efforts to reduce unnecessary paper use at Union, the College could realistica]ly afford to' purchase recycled paper. Support from the student body and faculty is needed to reduce the press run of Union's Week. Petitions are now located at the Librar3' desk and in the Student Activity Office ·for concerned students aEJd faculty to sign. If anyone is interested in canvassing the campus for support, please contact Tom Lundquist at Sigrna Phi (370- 3617). Chubby Checket and 1hc Dr(jiers appear tvmorrow niJ?hl in Menlorial Chapel at 8:30, so put on your leather jackets, comb had your D.A. 's, puff hack your pony tails, and you'll dance away ~ritll a million bucks worth of memoric,\. Pia;- it ('Vol fur the 6'olden NiJ?ht of Roc/\ 'N' Roil. ,• M~. Krupsak. Democratic candidate for the 44th State ·..;c·nahlrial District of '\c\\ York. \\hich in dudes Schcnectad1. and currently A~,crnhl~\\ornan lrom this area. has hL·c·n outspoken in her adHlcaey ol leg1slati\L' reform. l-ighting \\ithin the sy,tcm to ma·kL· it opaate !lhlrc etlecti\Ciy. M,. Krupsak hclic1e~ that hdore our p1 iorities can change towards greater ~ocial reform. t.he seniority system in the legislature must change. It is necessary to \get different people in with different ideas.\' Currently, Ms. Krupsak claims that the power of the New York State Legislature is in the hands of its cha.irmen. the Speaker of the Assembly, and the Majority Leader. !he (io\'ernor\s pov.cr has also increased durin!! hi\ years in oil ice. l-ighting within the courb to change this system. Ms. Krupsak is current[~ imnhed 111 t\\O la\\sUits. hoth ol 'Ahich arl' SL'c•king to !!ill' the pc·tlpk ol th1s state and their rcprcsentati\c's more cnntrol n\LT deciding 11 hich hills arc to he hmught he!orL; the· lcgislat urc. llw traditional idea (ll checks and halancc·~ \\ ithin go1 ernment 1s hcing abused. l here is \resistam:c v.ithin the legislature itself for changl·.\' Accordint! to Ms. Krur~ak. \Hm1 ''c sl'L' or don\t sec the la\.·k ol l·oncern to change the system ''ill haH· an impact on the nedihilit~ and \iahility of the gowrnml'nt.\ !\~ long as indi\idual members of the legislature han· thl'ir hands tied. they cannot expect to have great impact. ' Commenting on her campaign. the soft-spoken ·Ms. Krupsak noted that. unlike her opponent. Robert Lynch. she is not concerned with how many bills her name appears on first. To her. \to participate in passing hills is better success than having your name on first.\ Though severa.l local papers have endorsed Ms. Krupsak\ opponent. including the Alb:my Times-Union and the Schenectady Gazette. Ms. K rupsak does not consider that \terribly significant.\ Describing herself as the .. maverick\ or \wave-maker\ of this campaign, Ms. Krupsak believes Boh Lynch has assumed the posture of the reformer precisely because she i!> his opponent. While Bob Lynch is concerned with being a party officer. demonstrated hy Governor Rockefeller having hi!> team work for Lynch. Ms. Krupsak's concern is to he a public official, working for her constituents. Ms. Krupsak noted that she 'las received a \warm response\ while campaigning. Her personal predictiorts on the race arc that she will be able to \win Fulton two to one. Montgomery better than that, while Schenectady remains the toss-up.\

2 CONCOROIENSJS founded at l)nion Coll~ce in 1877 . Ed.itor~in-Chief ............................ George Bain News Editor ................................ Tim Cain Associate Editor ..... , ................... Matthew Swartz Munuging Editors ........................ Rita Morandi Jim Rostenberg f-eature~ Fditor .......................... AI Reisch Sporh Fditm ..... , ......................... Bruce Batchelder Photo Editors .............................. l.es Kernan .Jeff Weilburg Bu~~ncss Ma nag cr.. ...................... Michael J. Hurley :\at1onal Advertising ................... Stephen K~lly Suh-.criptiom: ....................... , ...... Mike Bernstein 1-.xccutiH· Fditors ................. , ..... ,Peter -Bickerman LouiS S. SnitkotT Gene and Phinny Movie Review A Separate Peace. by MATTHEW SWARTZ I'm not sure why so many movies of late seem so overwhelmingly intent o·n capitalizing on thematic nostalgia. Some that come with and go to see repeatedly. The shooting of The Way We Were struck my .paJate with the same sour taste- that. aU heavy meals bring up a short while after they are finished. --------------~-------..;;.. _____ immediately to mind, Summer ()f l :42, Love Story and, to a certain My English teacher for junior year in high sctiool 'had us read John Knowles' A Separ;tte Peace. I remember finishing it, which makes me think I liked it for not many assigned book~ I were retHrned finished in those A V • I t• - extent The Last Pict~,~re Show, · I 0 a -1 0 n were subjective narrations of the .past, making the time in the narrator's . past a .time which Why are we here? Is it not, in the final analysis, to increase the scope of our experience, be it in or out of the classroom. · If one accepts this premise, then the actions that have occurred in the past two days are, to the highest degree, disgusting. Posters and sign-up sheets have been posted around campus by a political organization in the hopes of soliciting volunteers for work on November 7. The organization itself is not i~portant; the posters, wh1,tt they say, are also of little consequence here. What is important is that they have been systematically removed from the walls around this supposedly enlightened institution of higher learning. If this sounds like we are hinting at a conspiracy, I apologize~ that is not our intention. Be it one person or a .group of individuals who are removing these posters, the end result is the same: the people Jose as they are not given the opportunity of seeing something meant for them to see. - But let me digress for a ~sentence or two. A presidential commission has recommended that each living unit in the nation {hou.se, apartment etc.) be equipped with an electronic devi~e that would turn itself on in the case of emergency, supposedly a national emergency. To some this may seem, harmless enough on the surface, but the implications are astounding, and the horror of an Orwellian world seems close at hand. Enough. Perhaps What we are really asking is for each individual who reads this to think, for just a minute, about the rights that he thinks he has ... and hopefully the rights that he is willing to work to preserve. Having a couple of posters ripped down may seem a minor occurrence to some ... unless they happen to be your posters _:._ your rights, that are being violated. amr X-Ray Let.ters Continued from Page 1 ray emittor in the universe which To the Editor: is three billion ligf.tt years ~way, : .. .Last Spriqg,: as part of an he made it clear that the light independent study, we conducted you a-re now seeing in this· slid,e a survey in order to determine left its source three billion years the ~tlldent body's extent of ago. When the reaction from the interest in women's studies. audience was nil, he seemed Out of the 1100 questionnaires dismayed: \I don't see enough that we circulated, unfortunately respect in your eyes.\ only 269 were returned. As he was concluding his However, we assume the results lecture, Dr. Lewin had shown to be representative of the that this is indeed a young and student population. rapidly-expanding science. As for We began our survey with the excitement, he remarked, \If general questions pertaining to you don't feel the blood in your the Woman's Lib movement. body. you'll have to accept from 73% of the females responded me that it is\ (exciting). positively to the question, \Do Concordiensis is puhlish€d every Tuesday and .Friday during the schi)ol y~ar except during 'examination and vacation penods by the student body of Union College. Schenectady. N.Y. National advertising representative. National Educational Advertising Service. Inc. College Publishers Representative. National Educational Advertising Service. Inc .. N.Y.C. Editorial Office, Old Gym. U~<ion College. Publication Office. The Jewish World Publications. 771 State Street. Schenectady. N.Y. 12307. 346-2356 Entered in the Schenectady post office as Seconcl Class Mail Matter. Subscription 20 cents_ a copy. $8 a year delivered anywhere in the United States. Deadline for all copy. which must he typed ancl double-spaced. is 7 p.m. on· Mni1da~ and I hursday at the Concordy <ifficc. above Old Chapel. Office telephone numher IS 370-11155. hut the office is on!~ in use on Monday and fhursday nights. For all editorial matters. call the editor-in-chief at 393- !640; for information call Student Activities Office at 370-6118. ticket buyers could all identify you feel women are oppressed?\. Only 45% of the males who responded felt that women were oppressed. But surprisingly enough, 62% of the rnen felt that the Women's Liberation movement had just cause! 87% of the females felt the same way. One of the informative questions tha:t we asked was, ''What is the first thing that comes tq mind when you think of the Woman's Libe-ration movement?\ As we expected, a very high percentage of the women felt. ·;the women's consciousness raising, women's . equality in our society and such specific things as abortion issues answer this question. -Most of the males did not take this question seriously. A handful thought of important lead.ers of the m'ovenient but women's consciousness raising and· equality was the first thing that came to mind of about 33% of them. A sample of some of the answers we received from the males were: Bella Abzug, Gloria Steinem, loud-mouthed women marching and ugly bitches. We were dismayed to see bra-burning and loud mouthed demonstrators were the -answers of 30% of the females. We felt the main reason for this was sil!lply the fact that not many women were really acquainted with the movement. Women should realize that the movement concerns those who· are not necessarily radically . inclined. The wide spectrum of women involved in the movement range from grandmothers, kindergarten teachers and secretaries as well as students, like ourselves. Since many students have expressed interest in the Miriam Conable, Mike Shinagel, Debbie Davis and Judy Turkel. It will be held on Thursday, November 9 in the upstairs lounge in Hale House. We hope many of you (male and female) will attend. It should be an interesting and informative as well as enjoyable. evening. See you there! Peggy Mancuso Dale Simpson Vohmteers are desperately· needed to be·friendly visitors. No professional skill is required. - just patience, dependability, lutderstanding, concern and tactfulness. Accordipg: to Barbara Fuchs of _J!te Schenectady Volunteer ,Jtureau,. the need. for friendly visitors i:s unlimited.. If you can -visit on~ a week, twice a week, or . every other week, you c~m bring cheer into an otherwise cheerless life. What 1\ volunteer can do for a loiu;ly _ person varies, · naturally. Some just need a friend with whom they c:an converse, some might enjoy playing cards or other games, Qthers might enjoy a visit to a , place of int~rest or help with their shopping. , Some of these people are hi institutions - some are living alone •. Please - become involved - there are so many lonely people in our community! . Call the Volunteer Bureau any weekday between the hours of 9:30 to 2 - or stop · in at 6 Union Street. Tile. number is 37:!-3395. Levrs formation of a woman's group on campus, a panel discussion concerning \The Impact of Women on Union, and Union;s Impact on Women\ has been Dave's. Mens Shop planned. ihis panel consists of 453 State St. the following people: Tony~Fa~g~a~,J:~g~~~~~~~~S~' c~h~e~~~h:~ Discover the World on Your SEMESTER AT SEA Sails each September & February Combine accredited study with educational stops in Africa, Aus- tralasia and the Orient. Over 5000 students from 450 campuses have .already experienced this interna- tional program. A wide range of financial aid is avaiiable, Write now for free catalog: coUeiCJe. Box CC40, Orange, Cal. 92666 · days, and being puzzled about how Phinny dies. These recoflecti<ms I had in anticipation of Paramount Pictures~ new release. The movie, set on the campus of PhiiHps Exeter Academy, has made me r~rnember much more about the novel as well as stir up reflections on the time during which I read it. This leads me to conclude that nostalgi-a, which previously seemed so boring and tearfully meaningless, has finally caught me in my twenty-second year. High school, public ot private, was indeed A Separate Peace. f' or those unfamiliar with the ~tory, A Separate Peace takes place during World War II, around the time of the Japanese bombing of Pearl HarbGr and the fi-rst U.S. military involvement. It revolves about two Devon, more accurately Exeter, ~oommates; Phinny and Gene,. who are natural opposites. Where Gene must Work dilligently and care excessively to succeed academically> Phinny indifferently gets no better than , mediocre grades. In a time when machismo was a constant source of animosity amongst Ame-rican males, Phinny dan.gtes athletic superiority in ·a · cunningly Hnobtmsive way in front of his roommate all the while questioning why, if physical dexterity comes so easily to him, Gene must study constantly for comparable excellence. After effortlessly smashing the school pole vault record and insisting that Gene, the only witness, not tell anypne, Phinny shatters his leg in a ch:tssic \fa11 ftoin innocence.\ 'Gene is the cause of this accident but, as the apparent sole witness, denies the charges of malice of intent put to him by a kangaroo court made up of his classmates. This scene is particularly effective as the judge and· jury sing and dance to the ageless favorite song: of . pubescents, ''Hitler, he only had -one ball, . G_oerring had two, but very small, while poor old Goehbels, had no balls at all~\ We become aware that Leper, a shy, almost tragically somber classmate has become , Devon's first \contribution\ to the War effort by drifting ,into a totally manic state. H-e was witness to Phinnfs fall but his evidence i& not acceptable. He is ins~ne. Pbinny dies, a victim of_ his own aesign, in a world domirtated, as he saw it, by adults who grow fat whi:le inflicting suffering in the name of nationalism and a better world for their children. . A Separate Peace opened this Wednesday at the Delaware T-heatre in Albany. It is twf hours of solid and engrosshtg entertainment as Knowles' masterwork becomes a cellul!Jid comment on growing up and yesterdays which I'm sure many, j including the narrating, adult . Gene, would prefer to forget. PROCTOR'S Wf:AJ: _ STA'U ST .. SCHEHECTADY ~:~;~:~~::;:I::~;:~~~:;::::::::~:~:~:~::!g!:f.~::::;~~:;;;:::;:;:;~!:::::: m NOW !i~: JJIII SH~o~ 1 ~G! IIJ ~!1iRoman Polanski's U o~ • lll~~ MACBETH ~~(!j ;~~~:::::~:~:$::::~~;:::::::::~~::::~~~~:::::::~:::::::::::::::::::::?:d~t~~~ Nov. 4 &5 Matinee Only! GodziUa v. Smog Monster Nov. 8-15 Big Store Oay at the Circus Nov. 16-22 .Butterl'Jies Are Free I ' ! f 1

ed about These ticipation new on the Exeter de me the I read that tearfully caught year. private, the takes Nar H, and about ny and work ively to than was hletic ningly of his wh.ile him, for After school sisting not FS hi$ from of by of his jury ball, very most has not . his by e of this. J ' ! :1 ! I CONCO,RD!ENS!S, f\'riday. No1•ember 3, 1972 ,3 · \Spider\ John Kocrnor will appear with Taj .next Friday night at &·30 in Menwrial Chapel. now on sale at St!Ji:dent Activities. Mahal, Tickets New Grad Program: - Natinnai_Managemtnt The ra:pid growth of the multi-. The multi-national graduate national firm is the most program combines studies in significant international language .and culture · with development of this time. Its full tr.aining in management, economic, .. social •.. and cultural international economics and impact will only begin :to be felt ·-international politics. Studen·ts in the next few years. With the will be abk to prepare for work rise of the multi-national firm in any one . of three different and the growth of many kinds of areas: Common Market area, • international cooperation and Eastern Europe, or Latin interchange there has been a ·America. corresponding increase in an The Union College student internationaJ ci vii service should enter this program as an administration. undergraduate by combining his Union College's new program bachelor's and his master's work. in muilti~na:tional management is A variety of uridergraduate a response to the need for majors would be eligible. As administrators and managers three graduate courses can now who can speak two or three be used for both the bachelor's languages . well· and · who · can- --and--the-· ·master's··· degree, the understand the limitations in the program c.an be condensed use of. highly sophisticated somewhat. American managerial skills in Interested · undergraduate other cultures. students should see Professor DIAMOND ENGAGEMENT & WEDDING RINGS 3,000 ring ~lections in all · styles at 50% disc:o-.nt to stlideQtS, statr, and faculty. Buy · . direct from leading manufacturer ·and SAVE! VI carat $179, ,% · . ca.._t Oi'lly sm •. Few free col,o.r . folder Write: Box 42, FanwOOd~ N.J. 07013 Frederick Klemm immediately to play their language study and the 1 inter~ship abroad. ' Levrs • Dave's. Mens Sbop 453 State St. . ; ,,_.::<:;::d.::.own.:.:.:;:t:.=.o..;,;w,;;;n~S..;;.c.;.;,.he~n;;.;.ec.;;.;t;;;.ad;;::y~)__.. L Freshmen & Upperclassmen Bids will be matched with your choice of Fraternity on Tues. Nov. 7. Bids will be accepted at lunch, dinner, and all day at the Student Activities Office. Lookingforl1·ard to seeing you at the !. f: C. festil'ities this weekend Attention Students!! Textbooks will be returned as of November 15th. If you have ROt purchase<! all ·your ~extbooks, please do so before the return date. Campus Bookstore l * * * * The· .! ext session of the Student-Faculty Bridge Club will be held on November 14 at 7:45 in the Hale House Faculty l,oungt;. AU those interested are welcome. Tlu~ results of the last tournament are as follows: 1. Bob Lavin-Mike Fishman 2. Bob Feller-Mike Levinson 3. Dave Gordon-Karl Haver * * * * Anyone interested in a Saga board job, please see John Fink at West College Cafeteria, or call 372-9730. * * * * All people interested in ushering at the Taj Mahal concert next Friday night, please contact Bob Fein i·n I 10 Davidson (370-0239), or· leave . your name and phone number in the Student Activities Office as soon as possible. * * * * New postal regulations require special delivery letters and packageS'\ to be delivered dir.ectly to the addressee. If you are expecting anything by special delivery (e.g. medicines. important letters), be sure to include your residence hall address. Mail box numbers are not sufficient. * * * * The McGovern campaign needs VQhmteers for Election Day. Those who have not yet signed up should call 370-5492 this weekend. * * * * RESEARCH MATERIALS All Topics ~ Send for your descriptive, up-.to-date, • 128-page, mail orde.r catalog of 2,300 · quality reseamh papers. Enclose' · $'.DO to. cover po~tage and handling. . RESEARCH UNLIMitED 519 GlENROCK AV[, SUITE 203 LOS ANGELES, CALIF; 90024 {213) 477-8474 • 417-5493 \We need a local salesman•· Married Couples- Part-Time Job - - ... . BLlTRER • • • • A'fTENTION AND SINNERS: StUDENTS The Union Colle.ge Mountebanks will present their second production of the season, Archibald Macleish's J.B., from November 14 till Nov. 21. Tickets will go on sale daily at the Nott Memorial box office starting Oct, 31, from 1-5 and 7-9 p.m. Phone: 370-6153. * * * * Fall Term in France '7 3 Students who art: considering participation in the I 973 Fall term Comprehensive Education Program in France should make applicatic:m soon. Preliminary application form·s are available from Professor R01i>erts apd from Mrs. Clohesy, secretary !O the Department of Modern Languages and LiteTaturcs, Humanities Building. Successful completion of the· program awards three course credits: One in French, two in Comp·rehensive Education (project, plus french Civilization). Requirements: Good academic standing, pi us sat is factory completion of French 134 (French Conversation). See Professor Roberts for further details. * * * * DON't FORGET- This Monday night, the Union College Glee Club, with the Mount Holyoke College Glee Club and the Valley Festival Orchestra, wiU present Joseph Haydn's The Creation. The program will begin at eight o'clock in Memorial Chapel. Union students will be admitted free. Admission is one dollar for student guests, and two 'dotlars'fon:ithet guests: · * * * * To whoever returned Vo1..17 of the Mother E~rth News to its spot in the library: Thank you. * * * '* On Monda\', November 6, at 7:00 p .. rn., Capital District Chief Planner, Chungchin Chen. will speak .at the next ASCE meeting. . His topic wilt be \Regional Planning and Civil Engineering\ • and will be held in room 109, · Butterfield Hall. All are invited ~ and refreshments will be served. * * * * The Confessio-n, a ward- winning feature film directed by Costa-Gavras, will be shown Saturday and Sunday, November 4 and 5. at 7. 9. and II p.m. in SSOl6. The film. based on an actual event, is sponsored hy Film Haps as an exclusive event in this area. * * * * A panel discussion entitled \The Impact of Women on Union, and Union's Impact on Wor: .. n\ will be held Thursday. No,~mber 9, at g:oo p.m. in the upstairs lounge in Hale H'ouse. All students and faculty are invited to attend. ·Refreshments. will be servt:d. Jackie Robinson Continued from Page4 This was the beginning of the \\:1 end for Jackie Robinson. His eyesight was almost to the point of blindness and he was in failing health. His last public appearance came at· the I 972 World Series. where he opened the Series by throwing out the ceremonial first ball in Cincinatti. Two weeks later. Jack Roosevelt Robinson 'was dead. l.ri his eulogy delivered at Robinson's funeral service, the Rever}!nd Jesse Jackson, a long time friend. of Jackie's, salo of Robinson: \This man turned a • stumbling block into a stepping stone.\ He mad<! it sound s<-l easy. ATTENTION SENIORS! Portraits fO'r the 1973 Union Rook will be taken Monday, November 6 through Friday, November 10 in Hale House lower lounge. Sign up for your sitting at Student Activities Office in old gym hall. This is the only time senior portraits will be taken. A $3 sitting fee is required at the time of the sitting. · Care for other people~~ children or homes while on vac~tion. Free room and board, work as you want. Must have car, 1 cbildll.¥--------------------------\' allowante. $100/we!lk. Contac 35~·8395 anytime, 2 Regina Dr., . Schenectady. tevrs Dave's' Mens· Shop' 453 State St. (downtown Schenectady) 1 - MAMA BIANCHI'S RESTAURANT 1135 Barrett St. 'r Real Italian Food Cooked To Order We Cater To Students The Frierzdliest Place in Town OPEN TO 3 A.M. FRI •. afld. SAT. ~ --.._ ONCE A KNIGHT CHANCE AND FOR THE PRICE OF 2 b-PACKS OF SCHAEFER BEERE DID GAIN A CHANCE TO TRY HIS SKill- ••• UPON A DRAGON VENDING CURIOUS AMUSEMENT IN TH£ .CASTLJi MOAT... . ~·~~~~·et13· Schaefer Breweries, New York and Albany, N.Y.; Baltimore, Md., Leh1gh Valley, Pa.

Friday, November 3, 1972 1J1e JY7:! Und(/i:ated Jl' Suct·er Team j '•' photo by Les Kernan Dutchnien Gird For Homecoming vs. Ephmen JV's Finish Undefeated Year by FRANCESCO SICULO Sup'ersensational soccer star John Denio, scored h.is 12th and 13th goals of the season, Qne coming at the {)pening of the game and the other with 5 minutes gone in the second half. Scoring for 'the third time this season, were halfback Dave Sanderson, and left wing Marc Wood. Both playeFs have played con~>istent prime soccer. Getting on the scoreboard for the first time were Jim Phillips, who had an assist from Wood, Tony O'Connor (who put in his best effort of the seasonO, and Ralr>h August who headed in a shot coming from Jim Corwin. The Dutchmen completely dominated the game. The Union defense allowed the opposition only 3 penetrations during the first half. Goalie Phil DeLuca looked like a statue left alone in the chilly weather. In the second half :John Busterud replaced DeLuca. Albany never came close to scoring, while the Union • offense bombarded the opposite defense. · After the game, I had an opportunity to sneak into the * * * * Union locker ro0m, and the privilege to listen to Coach Scanlon, one of the most reserved .people in his field. He stated, \Lets face it: an undefeated season doesn't happen that often. What I liked about this year's team was its dedication and discipline. A coach can only direct, .>the rest must come from all of you .. But what I. liked most about this undefeated. season was that 'we . . \ won it as a team, Yes, they definetety won · it together. John Deni~. who scored 13 goals, could have tallied many more had he wanted to, but many times. he gave someone else the opportunity. A total of twelve players scored during the season. The total offensive output Was 29 goals in 7 games for an average of 4 goals per game, a very high one indeed The defense was led by the Magnificent Four; AI ~itche, Lee Rimsky, Henry Neils, Dave Sanderson, and The Big One, Goalie Phil DeLuca. Union needs two wins in its final three games to end the 1972 season a winner, and this Saturday the Dutchmen will be battling history as they host Williams for Homecoming at Alexander Field with kickoff set for I :30 p.m. The Dutchmen, 3-3 after last week's lll--21 loss to Hobart, have defeated Williams only 14 times in 68 meetings since I lili7, and the 1972 edition of the Ephmen are a solid representative team that stands with only a single loss to undefeated Middlebury in five starts. Larry Heiges, Middlebury, is back and ready at tight end. injured against expected to be for regular duty Geared to stop the Williams offense will be a Union unit that against Hobart was led by junior middle guard Jim Kewley and sophomore tackle Don Rupsis. The Dutchmen have allowed only 120 yards a game on the ground to date. Sophomore Steve Andrews will play safety in place of injured senior Mike Raab. Union has not beaten Williams since 1968, losing 36-15 last year at Williamstown and 2 I -20 two years ago on Alexander Field, when a two-point conversion attempt failed with less than a minute remaining in the game. The Keep Fit Class of Exercises will be held on: Monday 12:30-1:30 p.m. and Thursday 7:30-8:30 p.m. The first session will be held in the gymnasium on Monday, Nov. 6. Thus terminates the J. V, soccer season and if mcoach Scanlon keeps his word he will finally have a \socia'l drink\ with the rest of the team. EVER LIVED 7 The core of the 4-1 Williams mark to date has been a stiff defense led by senior ends Steve Cr'eahan and Marty Doggett and middle guard~linebacker Mark Lesniewski. Creahan ran 99 yards with a fumble to trigger last week~s impressive 42-15 victory over Tufts. On offense, the Ephs feature· the running of halfback Ed D'Arata and fullback Mike Fit7gerald, with either senior Tom Lee or flashy sophomore Bill McMillan calling the signals. Sta.nd.out senior end John Parker is out for the season but senior Union's offense is beginning to mature with senior quarterback Dave Rearic calling the signals. Sophomore Mike Deshler with a 92 yard kickoff return and junior Bruce Mathias with a dancing nine yard touchdown run were effective against Hobart and should tal<e some of the pressure off leading rusher Ron Westbrook. Fullback Rick Jaszczak was injured last week and his status for Williams . is doubtful so junior Stan 'O'Brien will most likely start Saturday. Leaders along the offensive line have been senior Bob Wilson and sophomore Pete Feaman. Jackie Robinson by BUFFALO Two weeks ago, one of the greatest baseball players of all time died at the age of 53. His name was Jackie Robinson. Jackie Robinson had balls. He joined the Brdoklyn _Dodgers in 1947, thus becomi·ng the first Black to play in the majors. He had successfully broken baseball's color barrier, which in those days could be compared to a Black being elected President. Dodger owner Branch Rickey heard of Robinson in 1945 while Ja.ckie was playing for an all Black team in Kansas City. After spending a year in Montreal, Robinson was called up to the Dodgers in 1947. Rickey was, to u~e his own ·words, .. looking for a ballplayer who had guts enough not to fight back.\ And fight back he didn't. The abuse Robinson took in Montreal and his first two years with the Dogers was enough to make mere mortals cringe in disgust. . He took it, though, and he went on to become Rookie of the Year in 1947 and National League .MVP in 1949 with a league leading .342 hatting average. He batted .300 or over in 6 of his 10 seasons and when he retired in 1956. he had a lifetime batting average of .311. The height of his career came in. 1962 when he became the first Black to be elected to the Baseball Hall of Fame. Jackie's life declined after this. His son, Jackie, Jr., became a heroin addict.. He later kicked the habit and the future for Jackie and his son looked bright, but this came to an abrupt end in 1971 when Jackie. Jr. was killed in an auto crash at the age of 24. Continued on Page 3 tevrs Dave's' Mens Shop 453 State St. . : (downt()wn Schenectady) Frosh Football by BILLY DeB EAR The freshman football team finally put their talents together for a full sixty minutes, as they overpowered previously undefeated Albany State, 22-7. Characteristically, the · Garnet jumped out to an early lead. Uncharacteristically, they were able to hold the lead throughout the ~n in registering their first victory of the season. Utilizing an effective running game, that netted 274 yards for the afternoon, Union 'jumped out to a quick 7-0 lead as Bo]) Miller tallied and John Ballard added the extra point. Forsaking the passing game, possibly because of the wind and cold temperature, quarterback Rich Mayel! diretled two more scoring drives in the second period. By running himself, or pitching out to Miller, Bill Karp, who gained a total of 92 yards, and Bill Copula, who gained 95, Union moved to a commanding 19-0 halftime lead. Although outscoretl 7-3 in the second half, Union continued to · dominate the tempo of the game, almost as much as in the first half. 4 For three Generations' * 166 Jay St.~ l-or H on eM Sen ice And Good Jewelry * * * * Albany's offense was thwarted contimwusly by . an inspired defense that was determined not to allow a repeat of the disasterous second half against Williams. The defensive charge was led by the front five of Brian Colby, Charlie Alter, Charlie Driver, Jim Carey, and Peter Sherman, who didn't allow State's quarterback the time to find receivers or execute his wishbone offense. It wasn't until only 3:48 remained in the third quarter that Albany managed to score its lone touchdown of the, day, as a long pass set up an eight yeard scoring run. But, thanks to two fine fourth quarter interceptions by Jay Yung wnd Joe Zolner, Albany never threatened again. The play, though, that most typified the outstanding effort that led to this first Victory, came with only I: 12 remaining, as John Ballard lofted a successful field goal through the crossbars from 44 yards away. ~IIIIIIIIIIIIIIJIJIIJIIIIIJJIIIJIIIIJJIIJIIIIIIIIIillllllllllll,l: . i MIKE's··; I ERIE BLVD. I I HOT DOGS I s HAMBURGERS :: = = = = ~ BEST STEAK § ~ SANDWICHES ~ j 1135 *E~r: ~lvd. ~ - - iiiflllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllillllllllllllllllllllllllli or worked on a farm • Volunteers with a knowledge of agr~­ culture are helping combat hunger and malnutrition in: Brazil, Ecuador, Honduras, India, Pan·ama, Nepal, Chad Nicaragua, Niger, Sierra Leone, Korea, Swaziland, Dahomey, Afghanistan, Iran, Micronesia, Ethiopia, Uppei: Volta, Kenya, Philippines, Guyana, Bolivia, Colombia, Botswana, Morocco, Chile, Thailand, Malaysia, Senegai, Jamaica, Venezuela, Tonga PEACE CORPS HELPED THEM GET THERE For Information On What They Are Doing And What You Can Do CONTACT: Peace Corps 90 Church St., rm. New York, N. Y. (212) 264-7123

ed its A ut it A n d , .. founded at Union College in 1877 Vol. 102, No. 14 Tuesday, November 7, 1972 20 cents Nixon Favored In Fall Survey by TlM CAIN The ladY' was in her bathrobe, she was recovering from a . broken ankle, and the sound of the doorbell had gotten her out of bed. She did not want to be interviewed. \Why are you doing this,\ she wanted to know. \Why do you have to come around here and bother people; I consider it an invasion of privacy ... \ Well, this particular woman did finally consent to an interview, mainly because; as she pUt it, she has \a soft spot in her heart for college students.\ Thewinningteam in the third annual Tour de Union bicycle race: left to right, Mark Foster. Unfortunately, not all the people chosen to be interviewed in this year's Fall Survey were as friendly to the student interviewers as the lady above. The Fall Survey, directed by Professor Fred Hartwig, is an attempt to measure voting preferences and political attitudes in the Albany . and Schenectady area. Through a mechanical, not- too-mysterious procedure, about six hundred people in those two cities were randomly selected to be interviewed this fall. Bill Haus, Hugh .Nfartin, and Dan Miley. Read the story on page 5. Photo by Bill Erichson Chubby Checker Concert- T~e Twist Grows Up by ROBERT SHUGOLL \I want to give you all l have because all I have is you.\ That struck me as rather strange coming from the. k\ng of the Twist, Chubby Checker, but he said that in earnest. In fact, Chubby proved to be a serious musician when he played Memorial Chapel Saturday night, belying his reputation as a CHD'BBY CHECKER (drums, organ, bass, and guitar) visit our past and that's what his also played in a modern-rock oldies music reflected. Yet you vein, a much heavier output than have to face up to the fact that we were exposed to way-back- times have changed, music has when, so screw the idea that progressed, and the twist would Chubby Checker's head is frozen be lost in 1972. That's not to in the year 1962. knock the concert, however, It was a good beginning, but because it was enjoyable and the people came to see the \old\ that's all that counts, but an Chubby Checker, and whether oldies show is only fitting once a that was the reason or not, he year. Otherwise, it's overdone. then moved to some oldies, Besides, Chubby Checker has switching between the two definitely changed. His tastes different approaches for the have matured, and his attempts remainder of his set. He played at more serious music, like his \Ge.t Up,•• \Kansas City,\ and bluesed-up rendition of then belted out \Peppermint \California Dreaming,\ are his Twist,\ some of the big hits of most impressive songs. the early sixties. This is simple material, but Chubby and his group did a creoible job pursuing it, adding some good, up-dated organ and lead guitar lines, and Chubby does sing fairly well. He really got into his act, too, twisting and constantly moving while the viewers had a fine time going berserk. N ex.t came another Chubby Checker classic, Continued on Page 4 .. ' ··< • The survey questionnaire consisted of over one hundred questions; the interview itself lasted from a half-hour to an hour. The questions dealt first of all with voting preferences in the Presidential election. There were questions designed to determine the respondent's sense of political efficacy, the degree of cynicism en the part of the respondent. and also the issues which are most important to the respondent. The issue or question which probably has the greatest immediate importance is the 1972 Presidential Election, and in Schenectady, the news will .photo by Nelson Wei! \Limbo Rock,\ and while the commercial clown who made it big a decade ago because he created a teen-age fad. Along with Checker, the Drifters and Ship entertained an ecstatic Memorial Chapel audience, celebrating Homecoming Weekend with \The Golden Night of Rock 'N' Roll,\ sponsored by Union's Inter- Fraternity-Council. An atypically clean-cut and neatly dressed crowd filled the hall with an overflow of spirit, ready to groove on the sounds of the early sixties. There;s no doubt that Checker and his Twist was .a monument in those days, with everybody getting into the shuffling, be it at dances, parties, in the streets or in school lobbies. It's not surprising then, that all, expecting a night of nostalgia, were a bit shocked when Checker's set started with two contemporary soul-rock songs. The tunes held serious statements, and Chubby worked hard on them, resulting in a style and sound similar to that of Curtis Mayfield. His four-man backup gr<!Up called Ship audience participants were pretty impressive going under the stick, Chubby showed them all looking in peak form as successfully slid under the \Let's Twist Again\ and Do the Twist\ sounded better. than they did ten years ago; ' largely due to the roc;king, modern rhythms supplied by the band. · Chubby was on for 80 minutes, and it was a refreshing and fun show. It's quite entertaining to The Stephen P. Brown Memorial Trophy, awarded annually to the fraternity which has the best record in scholarship., intramural athletics, and extracurricular activities bas been awarded for the second consecutive year to Sigma Chi. The Brown Trophy was presented formally to Sigma Chi last Saturday during half .. time of the Union· Williams football game. Beta Theta Pi finished second in the running for the prize, while Theta Delta Chi was third. There are still plenty of tickets at Student Activities Oj}ice for the concert fi·iday night at 8:30 in Memorial Chapel featuring bluesman 1{1./ Mahal as a solo artist, with Spider John Koerner oprming the show. Tickets for a great night of blues are only $2.50. probably not cause great elation in the McGovern camp. Fifty-nine percent of the people interviewed in Schenectady said they would vote for Nixon, with forty-one percent going to McGovern. In Albany, however, the survey shows that MeGover n i:; preferred over Nixon by a fifty- seven percent to forty-three percent margin. It should be kept in mi·nd, however. that registered D e m o c r a ts i n A I b a n y significantly out n urn ber Republicans, and Albany has historically been controlled by a well-entrenched Democratic machine. Yet even in Albany, less than sixty percent of the Democratic respondents chose McGovern over Nixon. Of the Albany respondents in the survey who consider themselves Independent. Nixon and McGovern each get thirty-nine percent, with twenty- two· percent undecided. In Schenectady, nine out of ten Republican respondents, fifty- eight percent of the Independents and one quarter of the Democrats prefer Nixon. Almost three quarters of the Schenectady respondents who consider themselves Democrats say they will vote for McGovern. In both cities, McGovern has managed to retain a little over sixty percent of the Humphrey voters from 1968. There are several key issue areas where one might expect to find strong pro-M cG ove rn sentiment. The survey results, however, show that issues such as the handling of the Vietnam War, the bombing of the North, military spending, and the Economy have not served McGovern as well as one might expect. This is horne out by the following figures: Survey Question: What do you think is the most important problem facing our countrv'? N. MeG. Undec. Vietnam War 53'/c 39c,i(, 8 Economy 51 '7c 39C(( I 0 Other Issues 46% 42'/C, 12 Do you think we should continue the bombing or should we stop the bombing'? N. MeG. Undec. Continue the 73% 20~( 7 bombing Stop the bombing 40% 49% II% (Note: Less than one-fifth of the respondents said we should continue the bombing, and of this one-fifth, 73% would Vote for Nixon, 20% for McGovern. etc.) Do you think military \>pending is too high, about right, or too low? N. MeG. Undec. Too Hjgh 38% 51% II% About right 73% 20% 7 Do you think the federal government should do more than it is doing now to control inflation and unemployment, less than it is doing now, or about the same? N. MeG. Undec. 43% 45% 12% Should do more About the same 77% 18% 5 COIIIIII ... oa Pqe 3

2 CONCORDIENSIS, Tuesday, November 7, 1972 CONCORDI_ ... fouaded at Union Coli• in 1877 Editor-in-Chief ............................ Ge()rJile Bain News Editor ................................ Tim (:ain Associate Editor ......................... Matthew Swartz Managing Editors ........................ Rita MQrandi Jim Rostenberg Features fditor .· .......................... AI Reisr:h Sports Editor ............................... Bruce Batchelder l,hoto Editors .............................. l.es K~rnan J'eft' W eilburg Husincss Manager. ................... ; ... Michael J. Hurley Nationa I 1\dvertisi ng .................... Stephen keUy Suhscriptions: .............................. Mike Bernstein Exccuth:c Editors ......................... l•eter Ri.:kerman J.ouis S. Snitkoff CONCORDV STAFF Francesco Isgro Louis Barash Ray Faught Phyllis R. Edelman Pat Bohen Bill Erichson Gail Goodman Frank DeLucia Jim Smith Robert Shugoll Steven Krakauer Brian Lewis Mark Mindel Judy Dein Stewart Abramson Bill West Marty Sherman Robin Waring Ron Aines Paul Connors Scott Reiter Phil Alcabes Tom Conley Malcolm Sn()Wden Dave Strorn Don Hamerman Nelson Wei! Woody Lauer Fred Lucas Larry Whartcn Doug Carpenter BobS~ Biliy De.Bear David Wagenknecht Debbie Glasser Scott Burns Andy Pearce A Different Proposal In his statement to the All College Senate regarding the \Proposal for Eliminating Automobiles from the Center of the Campus,\ Prof. C. William Huntley, the Chairman of the Committee on Development, has commented, \As one reflects upon what is proposed here, it becomes obvious.that further study may argue for changes in detail. What would seem to be important now is agreement upon the general principle.\ We do heartily agree that automobiles should be restricted in their access to the center of campus, but the Proposal, originally drawn up by students in Civil Engineering, is both a financial and an aesthetic monstrosity. At a time when the College's most recent Annual Report showed Union's first yearly deficit and when language programs have to be eliminated and the number of Library periodical subscriptions has to be reduced (not to mention the various building crises}, there is no need to even consider a $15;000 expenditure on five..electricaUy operated gates. Five electrically operated gates! Surely Joseph Jacques Ramee never considered such gates in his master plan for the. campus (although automobiles were probably not considered either in 1813)! To place a gate on Library Lane in front of Nott Memorial would ruin the simple beauty of the campus that attracted the film crew of \The Way We Were.\ Placing four other gates around campus would not only be a grievous eyesore, but reminds some of us of shades of Big Brother or an airport parking lot. The College Grounds were not intended to resemble either, and there is a better method to deal with the control of automobile traffic on campus. Simply post the area intended to be contained within the electric gates - the center of campus - as off limits to automobile traffic, except ·for the necessary postal and delivery trucks. Strategically place signs directing all cars to campus parking lots, and after a suitable adjustment period, institute a fining system for unauthorized automobiles - one dollar for a first offense, two dollar~ for~ second, and so on. Such a plan would not have the immediate effect that the installation of gates would have; three or four years might elapse before everyone becomes adjusted to the new traffic patterns. But despite its gradual nature, this plan would retain the present appeal of the center of campus and would save the College that considerable sum of money. For a college that usually follows the conservative policy of least risk, the present Proposal seems to be out of line. Instead, consider a plan that, admittedly, will have to rely upon the discretion and . good judgment of automobile operators but which is a more simple .one. The spirit and intent of the Proposal are good; they do not, however, require such drastic implementation. Concordiensis is published elt>ry 1 ucsday and Frida~ during the school year except during examination an(j \\acatitln periods by the stud~nt body of Union College. Schenectady. N. Y, National ad1ertising representath·e, National Educational Ad1ertising Senice. Inc. College· Publishers Representative. National Educational Ad1ertising Sen ic~. Inc .. N. Y.C. Editorial Office. Old Gym. Union College. Publication Office. The Jewish World Publications. 771 State Street. Schenectadv. N.Y. 12307. 346-2356 .Entered in the Schenectady post office as Second ciass Mail Matter. Subscription 20 CCfllS a copy. $1! (I year delivered anywhere in the United SW tes. Deadline for all copy. which must be typed ;md double-~ paced, is 7 p;m. on Monday and Thursday at the Concordy office .. above OldCbapel. Office telephone number is 370-6155. but the office is ()nly in use on Monday and Thursday nights. For all editorial matters. call the editor-in-.chlef at 393- 1640: for infcm1ation call Student Activities Office at 370·61 18 . .. - .~ . gsb Seven Nominees N ained For Danforths And W atsons . . by PAUL C()NNORS personal development, and in which the candidate This year the Danforth and demonstrated a high degree of Thomas J. Watson fellowship enthusiasm and interest. programs enter their tenth and Fourteen proposals were given sixth years respectively, with serious consideration, and from Union participating in · the these, four were chosen on the nomination processes for the past basis of effective ·communication four yeats. and a detailing of the candidate's In 1968, the Wa tso.n proposal in an interview with. the Foundation initiated a fellowship selection committee. award for graduating seniorS Performance in a face-to-face who would be inter.ested in · confrontation between candidate engaging in a post•graduate year and committee became crucial, of study and travel abroad. Since since nominees will go through a its inception, 256 fellowships similar procedure with the · have been awarded, with 70 Foundation Chairman during the additional awards to be added winter months. The ability to this year. From 35 colleges, of communicate effectively is also which Union is one, will come important in terms of the 140 nominations for the 70 impressions Fellows will leave stipends of $6000 each ($8000 for behind during foreign travel. married students}. Hamilton, This year the nominees are Bill Amherst. Middle bury,. and Dobishinski, Vincent Foster, Williams are also part of the George Owad, and Mike Van nationwide fellowship program, Hatten. which excludes the large private Union has also nominated notables of Yale, Uarvard, and three students for the Danforth Brown. Fellowships. These awards, The hope of the Foundation in which carry a stipend of $2700· presenting these awards to ($3000 for married students}, are students (without regard to sex, bestowed upon graduating race, career plans, «JF draft status) seniors who have a serious is to allow a peviod· of one-year interest in college teaching or for students to devise a administrative careers, and who Wanderjahr of their own - \a wish to pursue a course of break in which they might , graduate study culminating in a explore... a particular interest, terminal degn::e. test their aspir,ations and While student's may nominate abilities, view their lives and themselves for initial American society in greater consideration, application is perspective and. concomitantly, normally by -the recommendation develop a more informed sense of of faculty or departments. international concern.\ Considerable emphasis is placed ln its final selection process, the Foundation seeks fellows who exemplify the qualities of \integrity creativity, capacity for leadership, and potential for humane and effective participation in the world community.\ While relevant, the candidate's scholastjc record is not the prime criterion for selection, and while the cumulative indices of candidates have been rising, many students with good records have been .chosen in the past. A student's index should not be an inhibiting factor in submitting a proposal if there is a deep interest and enthusiasm for doi:ng a well- designed project. on \scholastic excellence,\ and the results ·Of the Graduate Record Examination, as well as a personal interview between the Honors Committee and the candidate. Here again, the interview becomes crucial, with the committee examining the candidate's interest in graduate study, his potential contribution to .. effective teaching and to . constructive relationships with students,\ and finally, evider:tce of a candidate's concern for relating his discipline to ethical and social spheres. Beginning this year, Danforth colleges may also nominate for a Fellowship one recent graduate Who, although interested in pursuing such a course of study, has not yet entered graduate schooL From thirteen seniors, two were chosen as nominees, while from three graduates, one was chosen: Jim Garland and Don Rahimi, '73; and Arnold Orogen, '70. In making the announcements of the nominations this week, the Honors committee encourages students interested in the.se programs next year. to begin formulating Watson proposals during the summer, allowing enough time to devise a sound project and to gather evidence demonstrating ability to carry- out such an idea. The Committee also seeks feedback from those students who were or will be screened, concerning the selection process for the Fellowships. The various educational institutions which conduct the initial screening for the Poundation are delegated the responsibility for nominating candidates Whose proposed projects are .. 'realistic, imaginative and personally significant.\ Here at Union, this task falls within the scope of the Honors subcommittee, composed of four faculty, one member of the senior class, and this year, one Union graduate who was previously awarded a Watson Fellowship. Fifty-five students demonstrated an interest, while 34 submitted the necessary letter and recommendations - the greatest number since the J.B. program began at Union. In its four years, the college has been successful in obtaining 6 fellowships and 3 alternates. Union applicants were requested to submit .one letter outlining their proposal, as well as one faculty recommendation. These, together wi·th the academic record and personal interview formed the ba.sis for the committee's decisions a process not unlike freshmen admissions. All but fourteen of the thirty--four applicants were screened out for their weaknesses either in the thought processes of their proposals, unreasonable language conflicts, or a p!oposal which seemed similar to a year of library research and .study at a foreign university. In interpreting the Watson stateme11t, the Honors committee sought projects which were viable, which would benefit the canifidate's . I . By Archibald Macleish Nov. 14-21 8 p.m. N ott Memorial The Ad Hoc Committee on Housing, formed by the Steering Committee earlier this year, has been reviewing the housing situation on campus. To this end, the committee met with Dean Malloy and Dean Beam .. · The feasibility of forming a housing committee along lines similar to the• Comp. Ed. Board was discussed. The committee hopefully will be designed to aid in long range housing plans and the resolution of some sp~cific .student grievances. In order to determine student sentiments on the formation of a housing committee, the Ad Hoc Committee will be meeting with students in the dorms on the following dates: Nov. 9, 7:00 p.m. Richmond basement lounge (girls froni all small housing units on campus are invited to this meeting). 8:15p.m. North 1st floor lounge. 9:30p.m. West Iibra:ry. Nov. 15, 7:00 p.m. ~outh 1st floor lounge (rnen from all small housing units on campus are invited to this meeting). 8:15p.m. Fox Lounge, 9:30p.m. Davidson Lounge. The Committee also hope;; to contact the IFC sometime so that it can deal with the fraternities' housing problems. If you have any suggestions and ideas for the scope of the Committee, i.e. the ·problems it should handle or its. organization, please t_ry to attend the meeting in your dorm.

te h 3 -----------==~~~==~;C;O~N~C~O;..;R~D;.;IENSJS, Tuesday, November 7, 1972 Youth And Political Action Taj Mahal Is Pure Blues by ROBERT SHUGOLL This Friday the Social Committee will . present an evening of blues and folk music in the persons of Taj Mahal and Spider John Koerner. The faH term's final concert will begin at 8:30, with tickets costing $2.50 for Union students and $3.00 for all others. Taj Mahal is a pure blues man. He's a very well respected black artist who's been around for a long time. writing, singing, playing harp imd guitar and making funky blues music. Taj is known for his natural and personal .style, which may be heard on his new Columbia release, \Recycling the Blues and Other Related Stuff.\ Traditionally he's toured and cut records With a brass section and a big band behind him, but Taj has taken on a new look, and he will be appearing at Union as a solo performer. TV personalities Paul Pfingst and Chuck Sabatt photo by Jeff Weilburg *********************** by BRIAN LEWiS Last. Saturday, representatives from four political parties and two Union College students participated in a televised panel discussion on WRGB entitled \Youth and Political Action.\ WRGB presented the show in co- . operation with the League of Women Vote.rs. The discussion was moderated by Ann Hansen, president of the Re.nsselaer County League ·of Women V oter;s. Union seniors Chuck Sabatt and Paul Pfingst interviewed Janice Dooly of the Colonie Young Democrats, John Solicito, representing the Liberal Party in Colonie. James Chapman of the Schenectady Young Republicans and William Fink.s representing the Conservative Party of Schenectady. The program attempted to bring broad national issues into a local focus. A large segment of the half-hour program dealt with · reform within the local parties. Respo!lses from the four party representatives naturally reflected opinions which are found nationally among the separate parties. Finks and Chapman specified that their respective parties did not ha\e a quota system for the inclusion of women and minontles. Chapman, the Republican, said that his party was not especially impressed by the changes made by the Democrats in Miami, and Finks said that his Conservative Party was open to anyone who believed in the ideals of the party, specifically indi\ idualism and capitalism. Dooley emphasized that young people were being given responsible positions within the Democratic Party in Colonie. and John Solicito pointed to the numbers of blacks and women in the Liberal party as indicating that his party had already made the reforms which the other parties are now either doing or considering. On the ail! with Taj Mahal will be Spider John Koerner. Spider John, a guitarist, was part of the early sixties folk scene including Dylan and friends, playing in one of the more popular folk trios of Election Countdown '72 The only question to which all four responded similarly was one concerning drugs directed at the panel by Pfingst. All four of the representatives .characterized their parties as favoring a reduction in penalties for possession of marijuana. that decade, teaming up with by FRANK DeLUCIA the program by explaining th-e Dave Ray and Tony Glover. He's profound improvements the re-emerged in· the seventies on his Amid the flood of bourbon chairman has personally brought own,. and has drawn considerable and water (both the branch and about. Union stands second in attention playing coffee houses. rain varieties), Union preserved the East only to Dartmouth in * :;: * * an isle of enlightenment by majors, and second to none m Ha presenting a political discussion the quality of instructt\on. ve any grinP:!I? Are you tired· t\tl d \El' · ' f . 'J:'-- en t e ·. ectton Countdown Prof. Board the·n recalled ht\s o · .!!it.cbing to closed ears.?· The '72., D · C __ . . ue to the unfortunate experiences as an alternate oll'llillttee on Student Life h d 1· sc e u mg (10:00 a.m.) and delegate at this yec:~r's Democrat1\c wa.nts to bear yo\lf complaints, u d b·1· · · 1· df n er-pu tctzmg, on Y a han · ul National Conven. tio.n wht\ch he grtevances, and suggestions! We f 1 · d d o a umm an stu ents took part called \the most d. 1 • ve.rse want to presen.t your views to the · th · f · d. · T m em ormattve tscusston. assemblage of .p:o)· 1 \t 1 ·cal rustees and the Administration. M b f See:· em ers o the panel philosophy ever gathered.\ Lesli included: Professor Joseph Characterizing ht\s fe.ll\w · ... e Herman, 352 Fox, 346- B d (Ch · \\ 9692 · oar · · airman and conventioneers as serious in . Moderator), Professors Robert behavior, Board remember.ed Valerie Hoffman, 214 s· h 1 . R . . · ar et, Charles Tid march, how the ca·bbt'es and ·saloon •chmori<t. 346-9848 F d · J J . , . . · re enck Hartwig, plus students· keepers resented the de.legates' erry aiVen, Stgnui Chi 346- M h ' 9582 • · arsall Schiff and Norissa sense of commitment. Judy Male. 352 Fox, 346-:9692 Kern.· · Exemplifying this behavior were Robin Waring 312 F x 393- Welcoming 'back ~rofess<;H even the more tangential 1640 ' 0 ' Board from sabbatical m participants. These included * . \' \' * England, Prof. Sharlet initiated Kentucky Fried Chicken workers . El t • s who would not allow security _ . e C. I 0 n . U:F .... :.Ve y personnel to inspect 5,ooo boxes of complimentary ch.icken C4Ridlnaed fr.- Pate l , wms, tt will be helpful to donated by the Colonel himself. How would you describe understand how and why he A dramatic confrontation yourself - as a conservati\ie, won, and that is the value of this ensued; finally quelled by all middle-of-the-road. or liheml? survey. At least that was the agreement to X-ray the entire N. MeG. Undec. argument that got an interview flock. 68% 20% 12% with the tired woman with a In a less humorous vein, Conservative Middle-of- the~road 58% 31% II% Liberal 18% 70% 12% In both cities, middle-of4he~ road is by far the most numerous category, yet McGovern managed to capture less than one ~bird of this large group of voters. An overwhelming majority of the people in both cities were dissatisfied with \The Economy,\ yet only 45 percent of these people who felt \the government should do more\ would vote for McGovern. Seventy-three percent of the people interviewed said America should stop the bombing, yet less than half of these people said they would vote for McGovern, as indicated in the chart above. A comparison of religion and candidate preference in the two cities is also revealing: Prot. Cath. Jew Other N. 59% 47% 42% 25 MeG. 30% 40% 37% 71% Undec. ll% 13'% 21% 4 This chart shows that broken ankle. Professor Board prophesied the S t P II defeat of George McGovern, .. .. raw· o· ·. • .. \barring divine intervention.\ Sharing a commonly-held belief, The results of the Concordy Board claims that McGovern lost straw poll show a: disappointing far too much in his bloody turnout and a projected outcome struggle for party supremacy to with which national pollsters now realize victory. \McGovern's would not agree. Thirty-nine victory (his nomination),\ Board ballots were turned into the concluded, \initiated his defeat.\ ballot box in Student Activities Prof. Tidmarch expanded the (a sample which pollsters would discussion's scope by using the not consider accurate for a \Some folks say ... \ introduction. campus of 1900 people), and the \Some folks say,\ Tidmarch results showed Senator George emphasized, \campaigns don't McGovern with 30 votes and have much impact on deciding President Richard Nixon with 9. .the outcome of elections.\ He Among the seniors who voted, then proceeded, by explaining 18 were for the Democrat and 3 the proper functions of direct for the Republican. Of 7 juniors, mail, media advertising, and 5 cast their ballots for McGovern polling, to reveal the mythical and 2 for Nixon. 7 sophomores nature of the statement. also voted, with 6 for the Each major party will spend an challenger and 1 for the estimated $10 million on direct incumbent. Only 4 freshmen mailing, and over $14 million participated, and 3 favored each on presidential television President Nixon's re-election. spots. Total expenditures for aU McGovern supporters· were campaigning (local, state, expected to be more likely to federal) will exceed $300 million. participate, and one of them Nearly every candidate for state commented on his ballot (a and national office avails himself procedure which an elections of the tool of the preference poll, commission would consider and: many district and city highly irregular): \I do this with asp1rants follow suit. Although the realization that it is as futile !he use of such polls has rapidly as the whole election. Richard, m.creased in the past decade, Nixon has killed the spirit of Ttdmarch reminded the group .American d~inocratic· values or that their findings are of little use perhaps a t-ruer view is that :Uan · unless diagnosed properly. the untrained and unpaid observer, none exist. Candidates, according to Tidmarch, should remain wary of malleable data not convincingly substantiated. Professor Hartwig lent a ?istorical ~ote to the proceeding m presentmg data testifying to the _\•trendsy\ nature of politics. N~tlng that _approximately every thtrty years a q:J.ajor realignment of parties occurs in response to the changing political issues. Pla~ing the time of the last major reahgnment in the thirties and early forties with the New Deal Hartwig feels the present to be .~ very decisive period m our history. Our actions in '72 and '76, he stated, will affect the current of . national policy through the 21st century. Hartwig foresees the need for reform in electoral process, due to the increased homogenization of the electorat-e. This evaporation of sectional voting behavior is considered a plus for President Nixon in the winner- take-all world of the electoral college. Concluding the program, Norissa Kern and Marshall ~chiff s~ared with the group mfor~at10n gathered in a survey comptled by Professor Hartwig. Questions were then fielded from the floor. The morning's most memorable quote was constructed when Tidmarch ins~ructed the group that politics, wh1le being a profoundly important ingredient in our lives need not take on the solemnity of a graveside visit. \Laugh when you want to laugh. Don't take it too seri.ously. It can be entertaining.\ And, so too was , Saturday morning, blending all the qualities Sesame Street exhibits for the kid:s, i.e., a combination of information and entertainment. Among other topics discussed were revenue sharing and public housing. In general, the show was a calm presentation of the positions of the four parties on several issues. The award for the most pointed remark of the evening has to go to Chuck Sabatt, whose response to Mr. Finks' statement that private enterprise should be contracted to build low-income housing was to say \I'm sure private enterprise would agree with that. It has been very profitable for them .. \ Sabatt commented afterwards that \we had a good time although we regretted not having enough time to rebut many things that were said. Also we found the time constraint to be frustrating; we were unable to move_ into other issue areas we had planned to cover.\ * * * * The History Department expects to offer a new course - History 186, Revolution and Change in the Modern Middle East - during the Winter Term meeting Monday and Thursda; evenings from 7-8:45 p.m. The course will deal, among other things, with Arab nationalism and the Arab liberation movement, Zionism,· the Arab- Israeli conflict, and the Palestine Liberation Movement. It will be taught by R. M. Coury, Jr., who holds a Masters degree in Near Eastern studies from Princeton University and is .::urrently completing his doctorate there. Students wishing to take this course during the Winter ter'TI should pre-register for it in the normal manner. Since the course is offered in the Evening Division it will be given only if sufficient demand for it develops. The mad start at Sunday's Tour de Union McGovern has failed to win over the traditionally Democratic Jewish vote. AU of these charts and statistics indicate,. in plain and simple language, that Richard Nixon will most likely win in Albany and Schenectady by three or four percentage points. Obviously; McGovern can still win: votes don't c.ount until they . are recorded in the ~oting bootp, The .Fall Su~vey, hke other po~ls.f is a sophisticated probability statement. Whoever has never cared about his fellow; >Rrofesso.r Tidmarch also man; and we are worse than alluded to the ability of the ahimals. We kill our own .pollsters to read favorable species.\ attitudes into findings, . where to · · ~· · ~ , ·pt-toto 'by Bill ErichsoY\

4 . .7 CONCORD/ENS!~: Tuesday, November 7, 1972 CHUBBY CHECKER Berk And Craig As Scholars AND THE DRIFTERS Coauued. from Pa1e I The first group to appear was the Drifters, another ensemble that made it a little over ten years ago. The Drifters are four singers. Clyde Mac Phatter as the lead, and tenor, baritone and bass vocalists doing harmonies, along with a three-piece backup group. They performed good, happy oldies, although at times they didn't sound as solid as the original numbers. The Drifters also supplied some colorful dancing to enhance the easy- going feelings generated by their Professor Edward Craig teaches electrical engineerin,g and loves it. He is happy at Union and relatiVely secure in his position. As for the future, his career is stable, e~tablished, and unlikely to be an area of great change im his life. Professor Ste·phen Berk teaches history and since he is untenured, he has reason to ·be a little uneasy about the future. Berk plans to write a book about the Warsaw ghetto, a· book of \popular history.\ Berk wants to write the book because the subject has enough drama to it, it is of enormous significance to him, and it would \satisfy his ·ambition to fu1fi11 the 'historian's' mission\ ~ i.e., write a book that will be read and will change minds. ln order to write this hook, Berk said, he would have to overcome formidable obstacles such as the language barrier, the lack of reliable contemporary sources, and the· fact that many original sources have either been destroyed or scattered throughout the world. This hook concluded is the only impottant activity in the eyes .of the college Administration publishing scholarly work. Professor Craig loves to teach and has been doing just that for mote than · twenty years. His teaching is a great source ·of satisfaction to him but in recent years he has become increasingly concerned avout the role of the engineer in our society. Craig is worried about such things as the energy crisis, pollution, and technology employed for immoral or unethicij.l purposes. \No matter what we do as engineers,\ Craig said, it always has some bad after-effect. How do you know if you are doing the right thing, he asked rhetorically. \The test is Jove,\ he concluded. Both Craig and Berk discussed their profession · last Thursday night in Hale House Lounge. This week's \Professor as Schola-r\ guests are English professor Pat Allen and Professor W. Fairchild. ·:;:;:::~:=:;;;::==:,:~:::::::: music, the best of which included will take him five or six years. to \Under the Boardwalk,\ ''Up on write and it will preve~t him the Roof,\ \Some Kind of from doing what he has Wonderful,\ \On Broadway,\ \This Magic Moment,\ and \Save the Last Dance For Me,\ most of them classics which have passed the test of time. Pa.troriize Our Advertisers \The neon lights\ of Mcmor;a/ Chapel shone vn the Dr(fiers in the Rock 'n' Roll Revival last Saturda.v night, photos by Nelson Wei! WHEN YOU KNOW ITS FOR KEEPS. •••••••••••••••• 5 JAY 5 ; Billiard : : Lounge 1 : 167 Jay St. I • -RELAX-. • • • • PLAY POOL : • • a Daily 10-10 p.m. • • Sunday 2-8 p.m. : !. •••••••••••••• - Dave's Mens Shop 453 State St. (downtown Schenectady) ~~~~~~~~ FOR LIQUOR AND WINE Try f Joke l Lipstein's L 464 State Street ~ FR4~1888 ~ <Q>~~~'-\ .--------. t @aualier's t f t ' 1st specializing • t P·rl\ in hot dogs f with best hot : Hot Dogs. sauce ;n town: f Serving Breakfast, f f Lunch & Dinner f f Open 7 days a week f f t j Mon.-Thurs. 6~1 a.m. f I Fri. & Sat. 6-4 a.m. f Sunday . 9-1 a.m, .f f._ __!r!._B~,~h~ _ _,_f Quality food Dinner 4-8 .p.m. Reasonable Prices RedFox Inn Charcoal Burgers 8-Midnight Cold Sandwiches Jay Street ASK ABOUT THE \1/fvr 10 CLUB\ Levrs Dave's. Mens Shop 453 State St. (downtown Schenectady) ,PROCTOR'S· Wf.~:: , STAlE ST., SCHENECTADY Nov. 8-15 Big Store Day at the Circus Nov. 16-22 Butterflies Are Free captured forever in the beautiful brilliance of a perfect diamond. Keepsake ... the perfect symbo of your special love. R1ngs from SlOO to $10.000 Trade Mark Reg. A H. Pond·Co. ••••••••••••••• 10 ••••• HOW TO PLAN YOUR ENGAGEMENT ANO WEDDING Send new 20 pg .. booklet, \Planning Your Enga9ement Md Wedding\ pl.us . full color folder and 44 pg. Bride's Book gift offer oil for only 25¢, F-72 Nome---------~-----~--~---------~-- Address_..._ ___ ~----~---------- City---..__,__~------Co .. __...__ ___ ...._.. __ _ St11te z:p ___ ......_ __ KEEPSAKE DIAMOND RINGS, BOX 90, SYRACUSE, \l w 01 sec pe fn w wr in an wi im ki< ga to co tO I op UI en en to ofl ye< go nil fo1 w pu tu: th: bl~ thl an zo u. ca of blc the be Bi. R< pr an St£ ah w Al 1m St m: 0. ni; in H. CJ lee Cl 0' Bc ro ca tn ev

4 CONCORDIENSIS. Tuesday, November 7, 1972 CHUBBY CHECKER Berk And Craig As Scholars AND THE DRIFTERS Continued from Pa1e 1 The first group to appear was the Drifters, another ensemble that made it a little over ten years ago. The Drifters are four singers. Clyde Mac Phatter as the lead, and tenor, baritone and bass vocalists doing harmonies, along with a three-piece backup group. They performed good, happy oldies, although at times they didn't sound as solid as the original numbers. The Drifters also supplied some colorful dancing to enhance the easy- going feelings generated by their Professor Edward Craig teaches electrical en•gineering and loves it. He is happy at Union and relatively secure in his position. As for the future, his career is stable, established, and unlikely to be an area of great change in his Hfe. Professor Stephen Bed, teache~ his tor) :1 nd sin~:~· he i~ untenmcd. he has reason ttl he a litrle uneasy about the tutur~:. lkrk rlarb to\\ rill' a botlk about the \\'ar,;J\1 ghettu. a h,Jok ul ··ropular history.\ Bcrk \\ants to \\ ritt' the hooJ.. he~.:ause the subject has enough drama to it, it is of enormous signifiean~.:e to him. and it \\ ould ··~atisty his ·ambition to fnlfil'l the 'historian\' m1ss1on i.l' .. \Hill' a hooJ.. that will be read and will change minds. In order to write this book, Berk said, he would have to overcome formidable obstacles such as the lang11age barrier, the lack of reliable contemporary sources, and the fact that many concluded is the only important activity in the eyes of the college Administration publishing scholarly work. Professor Craig loves to teach and has been doing just that for more than twenty years. His teaching is a great source of satisfat:tion to him but in recent ) ~•tr~ he ha:-. heum1e increa:-mgl~ t:lHlCt:rned a\ out the role ot the engineer in our ~ocicty. Crai).! 1~ \\ui'IJt:d about ~uch thmgs as tht• t:llL'rg~ crr:-.1~. poHuuon, and te~.:hJJolog~ employed tor immoral or uneth1~.:al purpo:.e,. \:\o matter what we do as en,!!ineer~.\ Craig said, It alway' has some had altcr-dlect. Ho\\ du )uu kno\\ it _\ou an.: domg the right thing, ht.: a!> ked rhctont:ally. \The test is love,\ he concluded. Both Craig and Berk discussed their profession last Thursday night in Hale House Lounge. This week's \Professor as Scholar\ guests are English professor Pat A 11 en and Professor W. Fairchild. ·~;:;:::::::::::::;:::::::::::::;:;:;:;:;:;:;:::::::::::::::::::;:;:;:;:::: original sources have either been destroyed or scattered throughout the world. This book music, the best of which included will take him five or six years to '\Under the Boardwalk,\ \Up on write and it will prevent him the Roof,\ \Some Kind of from doing what he has Wonderful,\ \On Broadway,\ \This Magic MomeRt,\ and \Save the Last Dance For Me,\ most of them classics which have passed the test of time. Please Patronize Our Advertisers \lhe neon li,;/11.1\ c~( Memorial Chapel s/zo!l(' un the Dr(/iers in the Rock 'n' Roll Re1•h•al last .).aturday night. photos by Nelson Weil WHEN YOU KNOW ITS FOR KEEPS. •••••••••••••••• i JAY 5 : Billiard : : Lounge ; : 167 Jay St. : • -RELAX- • • • • PLAY POOL • • • • Daily 10-10 p.m. • 8 Sunday 2-8 p.m. : !!. •••••••••••••• - Dave's Mens Shop 453 State St. (downtown Schenectady) V7~~~~~-~~~ § FOR LIQUOR AND WINE Try Jake Lipstein's t ~ 464 State Street § S.. FR4-1888 ~ ~<Q>~,c.O'>~~t..G- .--------. f Olaualier' s t f t f 1st speciali7ing t f Prl\ze in hot dogs t with best hot I Hot Dogs '\\\ ;n town: f Serl'inr: Breakfast, f f Lunch & Dinner t f Open 7 days a week f t t 4 Mon.-Thurs. 6-1 a.m. A ' Fri. & Sat. 6-4 a.m. ' f Sunday 9-I a.m. f f _ _!r!!!!!·~h~ __ t Quality food Dinner 4-8 p.m. Reasonable Prices RedFox Inn Charcoal Burgers X- \11dnight Cold Sandwiches Jay Street ASA A BOUT FifE \fl/or 10 CLL'B\ - Dave's. Mens Shop 453 State St. (downtown Schenectady) Nov. 8-15 Big Store Day at the Circus Nov. 16-22 Butterflies Are Free captured forever 1n the beaut1ful a perfect d1amond Keepsake ... the perfect symbo Rongs from S I 00 to S 10 000 TrM!e Mark Reg A H 4111eeeeOeeGieeeeeeoeeee HOW TO PLAN YOUR ENGAGEMENT AND WEDDING Send new 20 pg. booklet. \Planning Your Engagement \nd Wedding\ plus full color folder and 44 pg. Bride's Book gift offer all for only 25¢. F-72 Name __________________ ~-------------------- Address ______________________ _ City -----------Co. ___________ _ ---------------Zip ___ _ DIAMOND RINGS, BOX 90, SYRACUSE, ~· I I t' 1 ·~ ... '\ I de~ , to- I : . i 1 .• 1 . l ., I, \;i ~ ' . I ' J. I [ -~~ ,('I .i ,·1~ .:J .;,_ \L w D pe fr w wl in an WI 1n ki ga to co to or u en er to of ye gc m fo Vv pt tu th bl th ar 7( u ca of bl th be Bi R pr ar st: al Vv A in S1 m D ni 10 H c le c 0 B rc Cf tr e\

nt lS r Tuesday. Now:mber 7, 1972 defense ended all Union hopes with its fourth interception of the game. Not Gaylord or Jim The. only score of the game came early in the game when Union center Pete Perry, subbing for the injured Skip Lega, hiked a fourth down effort over Lou Miller's head, and the punter had to fall on the ball. Stan O'Srien (1132) and Ron .Westbrook (tt20) in the Union back.fleld.. O'Brien replaced the il~jured Rich Jaszczak, and Westbrook had p 60 yard touchdown Williams took over on the 25 yatd line. and two plays later marched in on a six yard burst by powerful Maury Matteodo. The kick failed, but the score went unmatched. Union held Williams' tough running attack of Ma tteodo and Mike fitzgerald in check for the rest of the game, but the damage was run called back on a clipping penalty, done. · 7 photo by Larry Wharton DUtchmen Drop Williams wound up with 169 yards rushing and 29 yards in the air to 135;76 for Union. Individual leaders were Westbrook _(87 yards on 20 carries) and Fitzgerald (72 yards on 21 attempts). Thriller To Ephmen The game seemed lost in the ·by MARK W. MINDEL air for the Dutchmen. Union the 35 for clipping. passers hit on only 6 of 22 . T~e Garnet offense . seemed attempts and were picked off msp1red_ by the frustratmg . call four times. Several times an~ qmckly . drove down f1eld. Mitchell looked wide open after W1~h ~ophoJ?ore Joe Urschel, · beating his man but the passes Um~:>n s thud qu_arterback. either just were not thrown to l~admg the at.tack, Umon got two him or there was a firSt downs Vta a West brook off- misunderstanding on the patterns. With Saturday's 6-0 loss to the \Little Three\ champion Williams, the hopes for . a Dutchmen Winning sea~on now seem minimaL The game was perhaps Coach Everling's most frustrating loss· since the Williams game two years ago, when Union scored a touchdown in the waning minutes of play and decided to go for the win with a two-point conversion instead of a tieing extra point kick. As the conversion failed in that game so .did every Un'ion attempt to score in the more recent contest. Trailing by the . slim touchdown margin since the opening four minutes of play, Union made several stabs at the end zone but none ~esulted in erasing the goose-egg which was to plague the low-scoring Union offense fqr the second time this year. \Rocky Ron\ Union actually crossed the goal line late in the game with nine minutes remaining in the fourth quarter. Speedster Ron Westbrook grabbed a William's punt near his own forty and turned the corner at midfield thanks to two crisp knee-jolting blocks. · Ronnie then turned on the Rocky Thompson burners and raced untouched to the end zone, but the cheering throng of Union supporters soon turned to can-throwing madmen ·when the officials marched the ball back to tackle burst and a facemask call. 0 . h' .Westbrook may have busted uc · his run for a touchdown if he had The Union mJury shelf not just run back the punt sixty increased. Joining Rick Jaszczak, yards. Urschel faced a crucial Lega, Richie Burrell, and Mike fourth and eight on the twenty- Raab were captain Tom Anacker four, and went to shifty Bruce and line ace Don Rupsis. Mathia..s ori a well set-up screen Anacker (hamstring) and Rupsis on the right side. With a wall of (shoulder) could return for the blockers in front of him, Mathias . upcoming Middlebury game this looked set for _a ·first. down Saturday, .at 1 :30 on Alexander scamper, but the pass was Field. underthrown and Bruce was off- In what promises to be an balance after his reception, explosive match-up for the slipping to the ground on the 18. season's home finale, an Urschel actually led two other undefeated Panther squad bent deep , thrusts -.:>into Ephmen on revenge for last year's upset territory, On tlw- series prior to by the hands of the Garnet, faces the punt return, ~'Willie Joe\ hit a Union team with a \'must win\ Mike Deschler for a twenty-seven attitude. The Dutchmen are 3-4 yard pass play and moved the and have to win Saturday and ball to the sixteen before Union against Hamilton the following turned it over on a fumble. week for a winning season. On the series following the Middlebury owns . the only 'punt series' Urschel sent flanker- blemish on Williams' 6-l record. kicker Bob Mitchell on an end- around on a third and twenty. Mitchell got past the original line of scrimmage, but the Dutchmen stalled on another fourth and eight inside the Williams' forty. The tough Union defense held once again and turned the ball over to Union with scant time left on the clock. But the Eph Cross Country b.y ALIAS SMITH Roller-Wrestling Union's cross country team snapped a four meet losing streak last Wednesday, by defeating Siena, 27-32. Though the victory was somewhat less than overwhelming, it gave a lift to the The tri-cities area has been blessed by the return of two of the premier sports events ever to be held here. They are, of course, Big Time Pro Wrestling and Roller Derby. Both give you the promise of bone-jarring action and continued excitement fr0m start to finish. \Big Time\ is already in progress at the Washington Avertue Armory in Albany· and features such immortal names as Chief Jay Strongbow and Dr. Fugi among many, many others. Roller Derby comes to town on the night of Nov. 22 and will be held in the confines of the RPI Field House. The game will feature the Chiefs and the Bob Woodbury led Red Devils. (Incidentally, the Chiefs recently .lost Charlie O'Connell to the Bay Area Bombers in some kind of sly roller derby type of deal.) In any case, the game promises to be a truly thrilling affair. I am sure that both of _these events can counf\ on the patronage of Union students as harriers, who have won only one this is one of the few chances that other C()ntest this season, against you will have to see really true Trinity. Siena fielded a sports action instead of your surprisingly competent team, average dull football or· considering that they had only basketball game. Finally, just five runners. . consider how these events can Sophomore Joe Rukonshagiza expand your awareness and of Siena was the highlight of the knowledge of the world around meet, winning on his 5. 75 mile you. After aU, isn't this the idea home course by just over a that the C 0 mp. Ed. program 1s minute. Another Siena runner, all about? Tim Daly l finished in second place, beating out Tim McCabe, who was Union's first man in. But that's where Union's superior depth paid off, as the Garnet captured eight of the next nine spots. \' * * * Peqple who are interested in covering a sport for Concordy· this winter are asked to contact Bruce Batchelder at 346-9692 or to come to Concordy's offices, which are located above Old Chapel, on Monday and Thursday nights. If more than one person exhibits interest in a sport, art impartial panel, consisting of the sports editor, will decide who will cover the sport in question. All decisions will be final. McCabe pointed out later that Daly had run a very good race tactically. He Would sprint out, then slow down, sprint then slow, trying to lose McCabe and Crawford Cutts, Union's third man. By the ertd of the race, Daly had opened up 40 yards on Union's red-headed co-captain. Tim then caught up, closing the Continued on Page 6 Mark Foster. of winning Team ttl, passes in front l?{ the crowd in .fi'ont of Memorial Chapel during last Sunday's third Annual Tour de Union. photo by Les Kernan Tour D'Union by DAVIS HEUSSLER The third annual Tour D'Union once again added some color to an otherwise dismal Sunday afternoon and proved for many to be the athletic event of the Homecoming Weekend. The returning drunks of years gone by having packed up their memories and Drifters albums, campus cyclists shoved nostalgia aside and furiously battled it out on a pot holed and rain soaked course. And what a battle it was, the lead changing hand several times as the race attracted by far the most skillful field in its brief hut glorious history. Team #1, consisting of Mark Foster, Hugh Martin, BiH Haus, and Dan Miley was indeed number one at the race's end, holding on to a rather sizeable lead built up by its second and third men. Outstanliing individua-l performances were turned in by Ted Blandy and the helmeted Stan White 1 who emerged from well back in the field to make bids for the championship. Impressive also was the team of Anne Schwartz, Tim Ctoss, Steve Shapiro, and Frank Allocca which shunned the finer racing gear in favor of a vehicle equipped with balloons and noise makers. Not to be neglected were the beloved personages of Bob Ridings, the Dutchman, who started the race and President Harold C Martin who presented the coveted trophy to the victors. Perhaps the most integral factor in the success of the event was the enthusiastic crowd who, as usual gave moral support to the contestants. Fortunately no one iras injured (except for those whose pride was severely damaged) and everyone enjoyed themselves as Tour D'Union 111 came to its rainy close. The top finishers: I. Foster, Martin, Haus, Miley 2: Fred Lanes, Chip Murphey, Alex Bodenstab, Ted Blandy 3. Bob Hesse, Peter Kircher, Rick Judd, Stan White 4. Paul Mart~ni, Davis Heussler, John VanBenschoten, Bob Ingersoll 5. Lee Rimski, Andre Stern, Chip Porter, Woody Lauer. Steve Jones, who .finished fi'rst among the Union runners in Saturday's State meet. photo by Les Kernan

ch or is of At ~~ . y s ~· I r ~i ~.· . f ~~- I I ~; ~· ') I I ·' (' t.·.1 I~~ l ~ ... _ 1 I ! I '· . to. ' ' : : i /···I ... ! '·• \;it I ·' L. f Swn O'Brien (lrJ:!j and Run 11'esthruok (tt:!O) ill the Union hacVield. o· Brien replaced the i11jured Rich Jas::.c::ak, and Wcslhruok lwd a 6U yard tvuchdvwn run called hack on a dippinR penalty. photo by Larry Wharton Dutchmen Drop Thriller To Ephmen by MARK W. MINDEL With Saturday's 6-0 loss to the ''Little Three\ champion Williams, the hopes for a Dutchmen winning season now seem minimal. The game was perhaps Coach Everling's most frustratiflg loss since the Williams game two years ago, when Union scored a touchdown in the waning minutes of play and decided to go for the win with a two-point conversion instead of a tieing extra point kick. As the conversion failed in that game so did every Union attempt to score in the more recent contest. Trailing by the slim touchdown margin since the opening four minutes of play, Lnion made several stabs at the end zone but none resulted in erasing the goose-egg which was to plague the low-scoring Union offense for the second time this year. \Rocky Ron\ Union actually crossed the goal line late in the game with nine minutes remaining in the fourth q11arter. Speedster Ron Westbrook grabbed a William's punt near his own forty and turned the corner at midfield thanks to two crisp knee-jolting blocks. Ronnie then turned on the Rocky Thompson burners and raced untouched to the end lone, but the cheering throng of Union supporters soon turned to can-throwing madmefl when the officials marched the ball back to the 35 for clipping. The Garnet offense seemed inspired by the frustrating call and quickly drove down field. With sophomore Joe Urschel, Union's third quarterback, leading the attack, Union got two first downs via a Westbrook off- tackle burst and a facemask call. Westbrook may have busted his run for a touchdown if he had not just run back the punt sixty yards. Urschel faced a crucial fourth and eight on the twenty- four. and went to shifty Bruce Mathias on a well set-up screen on the right side. With a wall of blockers in front of him. Mathias looked set for a first down scamper. but the pass was underthrown and Bruce was off- balance after his reception, slipping to the ground on the 18. Urschel actually led two other deep thrusts into Ephmen territory. On the- series prior to the punt return, \Willie Joe\ hit Mike Deschler for a twenty-seven yard pass play and moved the ball to the sixteen before Union turned it over on a fumble. On the series following the 'p11nt series' Urschel sent flanker- kicker Bob Mitchell on an end- around on a third and twenty. Mitchell got past the original line of scrimmage, but the Dutchmen stalled on another fourth and eight inside the Williams' forty. The tough Union defense held once again and turned the ball over to Union with scant time left on the clock. B11t the Eph Roller-Wrestling The tn-ctttes area has been blessed by the return of two of the premier sports events ever to he held here. They are, of course, Big Time Pro Wrestling and Roller Derby. Both give you the promise of bone-jarring action and continued excitement from start to finish. \Big Time\ is already in progress at the Washington Avenue Armory in Albany and features such immortal names as Chief Jay Strongbow and Dr. Fugi among many, many others. Roller Derby comes to town on the night of Nov. 22 and will be held in the confines of the R PI Field House. The game will feature the Chiefs and the Bob Woodbury led Red Devils. (Incidentally, the Chiefs recently lost Chari ie O'Connell to the Bay Area Bombers in some kind of sly roller derby type of deal.) ln any case, the game promises to be a truly thrilling affair. I am sure that both of these events can count on the patronage of Union students as this is one of the fev. chances that you will have to sec really true sports action instead of your average dull foot ball or basketball game. Finally, just consider how these events can expand your awareness and knowledge of the world around you. After all, isn't this the idea that the Comp. Ed. program is al1 about? \' * * * People who are interested in covering a sport for Concordy this winter are asked to contact Bruce Batchelder at 346-9692 or to come to Concordy's offices, which are located above Old Chapel, on Monday and Thursday nights. If more than one person exhibits interest in a sport, an impartial panel, consisting of the sports editor, will decide who will cover the sport in question. All decisions will be final. Tuesday, November 7, 1972 defense ended all l:nion hopes with its fourth intctLL'fltion of tl!e game. N0t Gaylord or Jim Tht: only ~~orL' \' thL' game c:tmL· carl~ in the ):!;tl'll' 11 hen l 1 nion l'l'lltc·r Pet~: Pnr~. ~uhhing fnr thL· injur~:d qir IL'ga. hikcd a fourth dPII n L'i!Prt ,Ill'!' lou \1 ilkr', hc·;td. and tiL punll'r had to tallun thl· hall William' llw~ (IIL'r \n the ~:; yard lin~: and t11o play~ later marl·h~:d in ,,n a ~i\ yard hur,t h1 po11 l'ff ul \ 1a ury \ f:t t tL'I H.ln. fhc kick faikd. hut the' 'cnrl' lll'!lt unnl;t.tL·hcd \ 'ntnn held Williams' tough rum11ing attack of Matteodo and Mike Fitzgerald in check for the rest of the game, hut the damage was done. Williams wound up with 169 yards rushing and 29 yards in the air to 135/76 for Union. Individual leaders were Westbrook (87 yards on 20 carries) and Fitzgerald (72 yards on 21 attempts). The game seemed lost in the air for the Dutchmen. Union passers hit on only 6 of 22 attempts m~d were picked off four times. Several times Mitchell looked wide open after beating his man but the passes either just were not thrown to him or there was a misunderstanding on the patterns. Ouch! The Union tnJury shelf increased. Joining Rick Jaszczak. Lega, Richie Burrell, and Mike Raab were captain Tom Anacker and line ace Don Rupsis. Anacker (hamstring) and Rupsis (shoulder) could return for the upcoming Middlebury game this Saturday, at 1:30 on Alexander Field. In what promises to be an explosive match-up for the season's home finale, an undefeated Panther squad bent on revenge for last year's upset by the hands of the Garnet, faces a Union team with a \must win\ attitude. The Dutchmen are 3-4 and have to win Saturday and against Hamilton the following week for a winning season. Middlebury owns the only blemish on Williams' 6-1 record. Cross Country by ALIAS SMITH Union's cross country team snapped a four meet losing ~trcuk last Wednesday, by defeating Siena, 27-32. Though the victory was somewhat less than overwhelming. it gave a lift to the harriers, who have won only one other contest this season. against Trinity. Siena fielded a surprisingly competent team, considering that they had only five runners. Sophomore Joe Rukonshagiza of Siena was the highlight of the meet, winning on his 5.75 mile home course by just over a minute. Another Siena runner. Tim Daly, finished in second place, beating out Tim McCabe, who was Union's first man in. But that's where Union's superior depth paid off, as the Garnet captured eight of the next nine spots. McCabe pointed out later that Daly had run a very good race tactically. He would sprint out, then slow down. sprint then slow, trying to lose McCabe and Crawford Cutts, Union's third man. By the end of the race, Daly had opened up 40 yards on Union's red-headed co-captain. Tim then caught up. closing the Continued on Page 6 Mark Foster. vf H inning Team It 1. jJasses in front 1?f' !he crowd in ji'vnt vf Mcnwrial Clzapel during last Sunday's third Annual Tour de Union. photo by Les Kernan Tour D'Union by DAVIS HEUSSLER The third annual Tour D'U nion once again added some color to an otherwise dismal Sunday afternoon and proved for many to be the athletic event of the Homecoming Weekend. The returning drunks of years gone by having packed up their mcmorie~ and Drifters albums. campus cyclists shoved nostalgia aside and furiously battled it out on a pot holed and rain soaked course. And what a battle it was, the lead changing hand several ti. mes as the race attracted by far the most skillful field in its brief but glorious history. Team #I, consisting of Mark Foster. Hugh Martin. Bill Haus, and Dan Miley was indeed number one at the race's end. holding on to a rather si1eahle lead built up hy its second and third men. Oubtanding indi\ id ual performances were turned in h) Ted Bland:- and the helmeted Stan White 1 who emerged from \\ell hack in the field to make bids for the championship. lmpressi\e also wa~ the team of Anne Schwartz. Tim Cross. Steve Shapiro, and Frank Allocca which shunned the finer racing gear in fa\or of a \chide equipped with balloons and noise makers. Not to be neglected were the beloved personage;. of Boh Ridings, the Dutchman, who started the race and President Harold C. Martin who presented the cowted trophy to the \ ictors. Perhap~ the most integral factor in the success of the e\ent \\Us the enthusiastic crowd who, as usual gave moral support to the contestants. Fortunately no one J..as injured (except for thnse whose pride was severely damaged) and C\eryone enjoyed themselves as Tour D'Union III came to its rainy close. The top finishers: I. Foster, Martin. Haus, Miley 2. Fred Lanes, Chip Murphey, Alex Bodensta b, Ted Blandy 3. Bob Hesse, Peter Kircher, Rick Judd, Stan White 4. Paul Martini, Davis Heussler. John VanBenschoten, Bob Ingersoll 5. Lee Rimski, Andre Stern, Chip Porter, Wood} Lauer. Steve June.\, Hlw .finished l/rst amon~ the ( 'nion runner.\ in Saturday's .')taft' meet. photo hy Lcs Kernan

CONCORDIENS/S, Tuesday, November 7, 1972 Cross co~~.f!.!!fsry gap to ~0 yards, hut got no closer, as both runners finished strongly. :vtcCabe did not seem to think that it ~as one of his best races. The \ictory raised the thinclads' record to 2..4. Coach Bick, for whom this was the first victory. \\as pleased that his d'lar:ges got . bad on the right track, but pointed out that they would ha\c to pt:rfonn a lot better if they v.cre It> beat a stron.g Williams' delegation Friday. Williams was one of the only two teams to beat the Garnet last year. * * * * The Ga,rnet harriers hosted William's Ephmeil on Friday and although they lost, they put up a good fight against a very tough opponent. Times were generally improved, and Coach Bick noted that the time gap between the first and fifth men had improved significantly over the course of the season. The thinclads had no time to · mourn their defeat, however, for after a hurried shower and meal they took off for R0chester. where the New York State Collegiate Track and Field Championships were held Saturday morning. The short (4.3 miles) flat course was perfect for A d(fj'ercnr angle on Chester Arthur? - Lau acruss ilzc line Awze Sdru·urt:: photo by Bill Erichson The. Dear Departed by BUFFALO . \bl . . . . . poss1 e slipped d1sc. Too bad for Well, the Boston. Celt1cs fmally Turk. He's lucky he got his lost a game. So did the Montreal millions when he did c;anadians. The Boston Bruins Gerry Cheevers, o~ce the toast fmally won a game. ? . of Beantown, is now playing in. . What took them so long. This relative obscurity for Cleveland. IS pr~bab~y the most often asked But he's rich. As he said this ques.tJOn m the Boston . Gardens summer, \I won't jump, but mens . roox_n. How could a money talks.\ champions~Ip t~am fall apart 5 . 0 Well, money talked and both completely. I thmk the answer 15 Sanderson and Cheevers jumped. threefold: I) No Bobby Orr. 2) This just goes to prove that ~o Derek Sanderson. 3) No \money is the root of all evil. If it uerr~ ;heevers. What more need weren't for money, S~nderson. be sa1d. and Cheevers would still be in B?bby Orr's importance t? the Boston, playing for the World Brum_s .was nev~r more ev1dent Champion Bruins. than It Is. no'Y. H1s mere presence Come back, Gerry and Turk. on the 1ce 1s worth two goals We miss you. alone. If ever a man played such an important part in the THE OPEN DOOR- the Garnet squad, most of whom are middle distance .runners. Getting out to a fast start on the rain soaked golf course, team captains Tim McCabe and Crawford Cutts led the team through most of the .race, while freshman Steve Jones satisfied himself with going out more slowly, and gradually pulling to the front. Using his now famous final kick,· Jones moved up ~o 23'rd 'place at the finish line. McCabe was close behind in 25'th. Crawford Cutts took advantage of the short course, turning in a fine performance. Cutts finished in 46'th, right ahead of two RPI Engineers. Jim Smith came in six places back, in 52'nd, while Bill Galarneau rounded out the Dutchmen's scoring in 73'n:l. These perfo~;n1ances were good enough to hand the Garnet fifth place honors, a result which they had not expected. The field was topped by powerhouse Colgate, giving the Maroon Raiders their third straight track and field victory. ·- ...... - ............................... .. • workings of a team, it is Orr. Nobody really seems to know what is wrong with his knee, but it has reached the point where I fear for Orr's hockey career. Qya{i!J Boo£ Store-. 74 6oofs for a{{ ages ?4 136 JAy STREET gpen.Mon.-Sat.+10:3o-s:3o Thurs. titf 9:oo _pfWJw + 31-f'-ZTJ') W1ne in ani browse! Harrier 17m A,ft-Cabe photo by Les Kernan ._________________________ . •• MauriceB. : Over also ma,y be the career of Derek Sanderson, who has a LeVI'S • Dave's. Mens Shop 453 State St. (downtown Schenectady) • • • DIAMOND ENGAGEMENT k WEDDING RINGS 3,000 rint selectionS in aU style$ at 50% diseount to students,. staft', and fatuity. Buy direct from leadint manufacturer and. . SAVE! Yl airat $179, -}4 . . carat only $299. For free color folder write: Box· .. 1. Fanwood, N.J. 87013· ~~--------------~ ~ ~~ Graubart & Sons: ' ~ • For three ~. . ~ : Generations ~ . . ~ ~Jl(j 6 Jay St. For Honest Servic~ ... And Good Jewelry• ......... -- ............ ~~~ ...... · .... ,·~-· .··\:1·· ./.!: ...... ~. ····~ . ······~ •. . •• ·-· ··C::~IIt• · ........ ,. •.. _ ......... , ' photo by Les Kernan Union's great improvement is indicated by their showing against Hamilton and RPI, two teams which easily handled the Dutchmen in dual meets. Union slaughtered the Engineers, who finished in II 'th place as a team, and came a lot closer to matching Hamilton; the third place team. Cross country has one meet left, the ICAAAA Champs in New York City next Monday. . Arca,de Electronics Why buy Sony when you can pay less for what seems to be the same product? The Sony Trinitron has better reception than other color portables. This. would show up mostly in marginal reception areas. Sony wiiJ receive color in areas where other sets will not even have a serviceable reception. Sony is extremely reliable. Sony warranties their · ·transistors for 5 yeiirs. We believe in Sony and therefore include a 1 labor warranty for a full year. We never see our customers unhappy again. · Come see .our entire line of stereo equi-pment and televisions . Proctor's Arcade Ph. 370~3680 ONCE A D~AGON DID OFFER- FOR THE COSTE. OF TW06·PACI<S OF SCHAEFER BEERE-TO TEACH A KNIGHT THE ART OF. THE OANCE, AND THE KNIGHT DIDACCEPT iHE. CHANCE. 10 IMPROVE· HIS SKILLS. lHUS Hf fNTERfD THE COURSE AND ~OCEDE:TH TO DANCE AND ONCE AGAIN THE DRAGON PANCETH THE KNIGHT AWAY .•• . .. - Bl No, newe is los o'ld, l clear is .k.: Nesb (bUt Than .BC (Ratt suffo, iodin coHel frien' h<JUr! Mon1 the l sci en, lieu contr Al us he cone cont Dav your the soon A \The Unio Won Nove upstl All in viti willl

who team, to third meet in to a le. ur of e CONCORDIENSIS, Tuesday. November 7, 1972 ] BUBBLES is in distress again! No, no more puppies, hut. her newest playmat~, Scotch,, a k1tten 1 is lost1 Scotch 1s about 10 weeks old; black and white, and wears a clear flea collar, lf whereabouts is .known, pl7ase contact , Bob Nesbitt at . Ph1 Delt (346-9730), (but not Dean 'Maloy, please), Thank yo.u. * * * * BOGART-Huniphrey, a rat (Rattus rattus), 3 months; of suffocation from an excess of iodine. He is. survived by his colleague in research and loving friend; Donna· Kenyon. Viewing hours are from I ;30 to 4:30, Monday through Thursday, in the radiochem lab (south wing science center,. second floor). In lieu of flowers, please send contributions to theSPCA. * * * * All people interested in ushering· at the Taj Mahal concert this Friday night,, please contact · B.ob fein in II 0 Davidson (370-0239), or leave your name and phone number in the Student Activities Office as soon as possible. *' * * * A panel discussion entitled '\The lrtl.pact of Women on Union, and Union's Impact on Women\ will be held Thursday, November 9, at 8:00 p.m. in the upstairs lounge in Hf,lle House. All students and faculty are invited to attend. Refreshments will be served. * * * * Latest 8 Track Tapes * * * * New postal regulations require special delivery letters and packages to be delivered directly to the addressee. If you are expecting · anything by special delivery (e.g. medicines, important letters), be sure to include your residence h~ll address. Mail i,Jox numbers- are net sufficient, * * * * ATTENTiON STUDENTS AND SINNERS: The Union Coiiege Mountebanks will pvesent their second production of the season, Archibald Macleish's J.B., from November -14 til Nov. 21. Tickets will go on sale daily at'the Nott Memorial 1:>ox office st.a,rting Oct. 31, from 1~5 and 7.c.9 p.m. Phone: 370~6153. * * * * Fall Term in France '73 . Students who are considering participation in the 1973 Fall term Comprehensive· Education Program in France should make application soon. Preliminary application forms are available from Professor Roberts and from Mrs. Clohesy, · secretary to the Department ·of Modern Languages and Literatures, Humanities Building. Successful completion of the program awards three course cre\dits: One in French, two in Comprehensive Education (project, plus French CivUization). Requirements: Good academic standing, plus satisfactory completion of French 134 (French Conversation). See Professor Roberts for further details. * * ·* * FOR SALE 2 foot lockers $5 ea·ch 40 in. long, 18 in. wide Eves. 372-9380 BLITHER The Ad Hoc Committee on housing will be meeting with students: Nov. 9: 1 p.m. Richmond basement lounge (girls from all smaH housing units on campus are invited to this meeting). 8:15 p.m. North lst floor lounge 9:30p.m. West library. Please try to attend and bring ideas. If you have any questions please contact: Laura Greene, North 413:. Nina Wolff, North 409, 377,;,9867. * * * * There will be a 'meeting of the Ski P~ttrol this Thursday· at 4:30 in SS l I 6. All rnembers from last year should please bring any Ski Patrol equipment they might have. We will also discuss transportation · to .the Winter Review starting next week in Albany. * * * * The Schenectady Ballet Company is opl!ning this season with two performances on Nov. 18, at 2 p.m. and 8 p.m. in Memorial Chapel. For tickets, call Pam at 346-6529. * * * * Imported Rugby Shirts For Sale - Assorted sizes and colors. There is a limited supply at $12.00 each. Contact Jono Walker at 372-9759 (C.O.D.) * * * * The Schenectady PYE Club will · hold its regular weekly meeting this Wednesday night in the basement of Silliman Hall. The time is 7:30 and all members, old and new, are urged to attend. tevfs Dave's. Mens Shop 453 State St. · (4owntown Schenettatfy) $399 .. 1111!1--------- .. , .. - .~-. ~ ~· .... \'*\ .. ·. ... -~- .. ·,.: . .... .:.. ~ Married Co•ples .Part• Time Job ARCAD'E Tape Shop . Care for o~r .people's chlldren · or bomes wldle qn vacation. Free room and hoard',' work as you want. Must· hil~e car, 1 child . allowance. SlOO'lweek •. Contact 355-8395 anytime, l Repna Dr.,. Schenectady. PROtTOR'S ARCADE And saves you up to 25%. Allegheny's Young Adult Card lets you flv whenever you want to (even holidays) and still get advance reservations. If you're between 12 and 22/ what are you waiting for? Stop by any Allegheny ticket counter and purchase your Young Adult Card. Allegheny also accepts all other major airlines' Young Adult Cards. .. lt~SEARCH: ~~ tERIALS - ... All Topics Send for your descriptive, up-to·date, 128-page, mail order catalog of 2,300 quality research papers .. Enclose $1.00 to cover ,postage and handlinr;. RESE:ARCH.UNLIMITED 5l9 GLENROCK AVE., SUITE 203 LOS ANGELES, CALIF. 90024 (213) 477·8474 • 477-5493 \We need a local salesman\ Rugby practice will be held every day this week and next week, to prepare for the last two games. On November II th, the Garnet will be participating in a tournament at Colgate, and on November 18th will host cross- town rivals Schenectady R.F.C. * * * * The A.S.C.E. is planning a field trip to the construction site of the Western Gateway Bridge on Friday, Nov. 10. The RPI chapter will meet us outside of Potter Lab at 1:30 and both groups will start the tour at 2:00 p.m. We will be back for supper and anyone who might be interested is welcome to join us. For further information please contact PeterTavino, 346-9396. * * * * The Union Christ ian Fellowship will be holding its regular meeting on Wednesday evening, November 8, at 9:00 p.m. in Hale House Student Lounge. Mr. Keith Greer from the First Presbyterian Church will be our guest spea-ker. All students and faculty are welcome. * * * * Bookstore Contest Winning numbers 2468 2487 2494 * * * * A clinic in Basket ba II Appreciation for students and faculty will be given every Tuesday evening in the gym at 8 p.m. Anyone interested in attending should sign up with ::::oach Walters prior to ~ovember 7. * * * * The Union College Cabaret will hold its third performance of the season in Arts · 202 this Saturday, November II. The price is just 50<r, which includes all the refreshments you can eat, and curtain time is 8:00 p.m. Featured performers this week will be Professor Carl Niemeyer, Liz Huntley, and Grace Sardell. AU are welcome. * * * * Textbooks will be returned as of November 15th. If you have not purchased all your textbooks, please do so before ·the return date. Campus Bookstore Spider John Koerner ~d/lfm:f(;rm at Memvrial Chapel this Friday at 8:30p.m . BOULEVARD BOW'L 1315 Erie Blvd. 40 AMF BOWLING LANES 374-4171 Bowl for Health §~;;;;;-;;;;- ~~~~· Moffett~s Liquor Store t J I t t 1505 VanVranken Ave. Schenectady, New York 12308 -ADD TO YOUR EDUCA TJON- - LL'ARN MORE ABOUT WINES- Join Our WINE TAST/N(i CLUB No Admissions Char~e - No Requirement.\ Each month \\C ~elect a diflcrmt \\in~ to he tc,tcd. I here\ a c;ud d<·'cllhmg the \line in great d~tail ~o ~ou can learn ahnut it. On thi' card thcr~ 1\ a picture of the lahcl ;o you can remember th<.: 11inc m th<· luturc to llllPI'<'\ \otrr d<tt<.: \\hen you dine out or 'imply \\ant u good hottlc hi \in<:. - Now open 7 days/ week ·The Brothers III under \Union\ management [MEALS- 1i a.m.-12 Midnight I -. Assorted Variety Of Hot & Cold Sandwiches At College Prices lf.79 Van Vranken Ave. 374.-5679 2 bloeks up EXCELLENT DARK BEER ON TAP - -- I ( I ~ ~ I I

CONCOR.DIE'l\'S/S, Tuesday, November 7, 1972 . Maybe the way to change the world is to join a large corporation. We don't make a lot of noise, but this is where it's really happening. You see, a large corporation like Kodak has the resources and the skill to make this world a little more de- cent place to live. And we intend to do what we can to see that this is exactly what happens. Thke ow· home city, Rochester, New York for exam- ple. We cut water. pollution in the Genesee River by using natural bacteria to dispose of unnatural Wastes. We cut air pollution by using electrostatie precipitators in a new com- bustible waste disposal facility. We helped set up a black enterprise program in downtown Rochester, and we've been experimenting with film as a way· to train both teachers and students-including some students who wouldn't respond to anything else. And we didn't stop with Rochester. Kodak is involved in 47 countries all over the world. Actively involved. Why? Because it's good business. Helping to clean the Genesee River not only benefits society ... but helps pro- tect another possible source for the clean water we need to make our film. Our combustible waste disposal facility not only reduces pollution ... but just about pays for itself in' heat and power production and silver recovery. Our black enterprise program not only provides an opportunity for the ·economically disadvantaged, .. but helps stabilize commUni- * ties in which Kodak can operate and grow. And distributing cameras and film to teachers and students not only helps motivate the children., . but helps create a whole new market. In short, it's simply good business. And we're in busi- ness to make a profit. But in furthering our business interests, we also further society's interests. And that's good. After all, our business depends on society. So we care what happens to it. Kodak More than a business. ' I 1 no1 mo use the pr~ wr: Us M~ bet >I ,I ll oa: H~ Bu Bo ser so Ul ·PJ Cf y, Wi fj:, f( in of C( PI sl· sr Sl w n c Ul ol fc: ol rc T sc tc a( re tt PI fr SE fr b p. n p a s n tl

VC)l~·l02, No.15 W.ha·t Are Th.e lel-loiBg< lo Carnegie? by BARB HEWEY Carnegie Hall, circa 1914, notorious for its reputation ort movie sets and its general uselessness on campus, is to be the scene of the Sp,ring production \'Student Center\ ... written and directed by Harold Usher and Dean Edward J. Malloy. Some ear.ly planning had been done last year by a 'Timit:tee under R. Gordon 1gham, former Assistant to the .:sident, and several inf orma'l >mmittees before that, .but what lacking and ddin it ely 1portant is a student coalition · some sort to assi~t in the ·ther planning arid details of magement for the Center.. The .uis to · <hite are the result of mch time, <liscussion and 0argaining ahiefly on the part of Harold Usher,- the Director of Business and Facilities, and the Board of Trustees. When the Center was first seriousiy ·proposed· (that i~, w.hen founded at Union College in 1877 Friday, November 10, 1972 20 cents Looking Back At Campaign 1972 Would you hclic\'£' Jlzis room 1vill 'soon' huuse .the O.flit:e of the Dl'an t~( Swdents ,md the Student Activities Qfflcc un the sel'olld jl1>or 1d rmorated Carnegie Halt:' space became availah)e) in 1966, the design was ·to include a dining hall and a completely new· heating system. The estimated. cost was $400,000. It is difficult to get any ~pecific answers as to why (money was no doubt non- existent) hut the decision tti actually begin work on the Cet:1ter was not fif)al until early this year. This year'.s budget is little more than half of the six year old estimate. Needless to say, no dining hall and no heating system are included in photo by Les Kernan the present design . .Because of the great cost of updating the building to comply with current security codes (redesigning of exits. stairways. etc.) much of what has heen designed in the new plan will ·not be comp.leted either. by AL REISCH In analyzing the past election there arc many t<)cks that can k essayed. I will (in the mo:.t cursory fashion) attempt to plod through some of them. The Numbers Game: With most of the returns in. the final popular ,.ote totals appear to he ahput 6o.w·; fM Nixon and 3X..2'/( for McGon~rn. This is less of a tnargin than tht.• margin Johnson rolkd o\t:r Go'ldwatet with in 1964. hut it is the worst defeat am Democratic candidate has suff~red ttl date . The l>hvimts question is \\ hy ... and at this early date. hy playing around with number~ and niaking suppositions that art.· grounded in little more than totally untested theories hased on past data and logic. the tdlowing can he advanced: First, the percentages of Democrats, Republicans. and Independents has not appreciably changed o\CT the past four years. lf we assume this to he true, tht: percentages look like this: Strong Democrats .......... 19 1 \{ Dt:m. Ind. Gop IYi 5~i sr; !~refer J:lumphrcy to Ni;xon I (\ . l I r· . ( Prek·r Humphrey and Nixon E4ually _ 31 r; 71'(. 20C( Prefer Nixon to Humphrey In 196X. the \ ast majority of Wallace \ otes came from I n d e p e n de n t s ;.in d \\ t: a k All~College Senate Approximately $172,000 in gifts. and an add itiunal $30.000 contributed more recently by the Board of Tru<>tees for paint and rest rooms. is the extent of available fl.wds. Tht:re are also two specific gifts of $50,000 and $25,000 for WRUC and Strauss Lounge, respectively. The facilities that will be · C(impleted, and hopefully in use. Weak Democrats ............ 2Y;; Independents .... .............. 251ii We~lk Rcpuhlic<tns .......... 14\i Strong Rcpublica!ls .......... 91,~; Democrats. The primary reasons for preferring Wallace to Nixon and Humphrey were in the: conscnati\e \s. liheml range .. In olhcr words. Wallace appealed hl most of his \Oters fm \\hat the\ con~idered to he his consenati\~ \iews. By i-nterpreting the a-bmc datu. one can reach the conclusion that sw·; of the Wallace 'nter~ thought :\ i::wn more consenati\c than Humphrey, or at least that Xi.-..lm was closer to their wav of thinking than Humphre~ v.:,s. In addition. 19 1 '( sa\\ little differenct: hetv.cen 1\ixon and Humphnn. while onh 2Y'i f:l\ored Humphr:cy o\t:r. !\:i:wn. H one assumes that !'li.\\on has a ill_~}!Y.. consen ati\e_ .image throughout the count!'\ than docs (ieorge McGo\ ~rn, it logically folio\\ s that Wallace \ oters. consen ati\ c influenl.'t: being llne of their prime comidt:rations in hacking ~y p~VIQ }VA6-EN.KNECHT A special meeting -of the College Senate was held Wedn.esd~y at 4:30, to deal wiih some important husiness left unfinished by the last meeting. ·Primarily, this meant final considerations of the Freshman Year Report. The first item to be discussed was recommendation number fi:ve.- The essence of this recommendatio-n is that individual departments should offer, \\, .. five andi' or ten week courses intended for non-majors, primarily Freshmen.\ That these should be structured around a small seminar· basis was also suggested. A motion was passed which referred this recommendation to the Curricular Affairs Cbmmiuec for un investigation of the feasibility of this recommendation, and, if found _feas-ible. implementation of it. The next item considered was recommendation number six. This is a recommendation to seriously consider the merits of team. teaching. A motion that no a_ctioh be taken upon this recommendation, on the grounds that this is an already existent practi.ce, was very quickly put forth and passe<!. Recommendation number ~even, ~asically stating that a lrfi!shman may declare a . major but is rioi required to, was the next object of discussion. A ··no action'' motion was quickly passed on the grounds that this recommendation too closely para.llels certain legislation already passed by the College Senate . based .· upon recommendation humber four of the Freshman Year Report. The next item discussed was recornmendation eight. This is concerl}ed with the choice of faculty advisors, the main importance of this recommendation is the stress that these advisors be volunteers. This was passed with an amendment to remove a comma. Nevei· Voted ............... : ... nJP;-·- Recqmmendatipn ·eleven·· was · ·by t·he end of Manh.- are Strauss·· the n.ex.t to be :discussed. This Lounge (with a \kitchenette\!), recommendation states that \the and all-night stud\' room on the faculty advisor shall. have the 3rd floor. a Recre;1tional area (to Usin_g this breakdown and thl· f~1lhlwing informa-tion a hout th~..· \\ay independents 'oted in '6X and the way Wallace Yoters klt toward Humphrey and Nixon. I will .try tn show how the Wallace vote in '6X, added to the Republican and Independent \ote, just ahollt approaches the 60.X-to-3X.2 figures for this election. responsibility of approving the include pt)ssihly poe!. tables student's academic program and I or television), additional rest during the Freshman year.\ This rooms and a Snack Bar. Space was passed with a minimum for various club moms and amount of discussion. office~ already present will he The discussion centered availableforusealso. around the next item The Book Store. WRllC. and (recommendati.on number the Mail Room will not he thirteen) was by far the most funded by the present hudgct. substantial discussion of the Foreseeable sources of·monev for meeting. Recommendation these facilities arc few ... ·gifts In 196X, the distribution of \ ntes by Independents was: .~2''( Deml>Crati<:. 47'\( Rcpuhlic'a.n. number thirt~en proposes that no frnm alumni ot wealthy parents grade of D or F be given to (a few thou' for the Student 21 1 '( Wallace. Among the freshmen, and that no indication Continued on Page2 Wallace \oters in general the following held true: be made upo·n a student's transcript that a course was unsuccessfully attt:mptcd. In other words. if. in a given ClHtrsc, a student's work for an entire term is unsatisfactory, he simply receives no credit for that course. One argument a~ainst this was the supposcd1y dishonest practice (in l'egards to graduate schools, etc.) this would be. Another argument was that a definite distinction should he made between a mark of D and one of F. because a student should make the decision about whether or not he will acaept a mark of D and credit for the .course, or have his efforts erased. Yet another argument was that this system should not be considered only for the fre~hmen, hut for all· upperclassmen as well. Finally, after a long period of verbal volleyball. a motion was passed which referred this re.commendation to the Educational lnnovati on Committee. Recommendation n um her fourteen stating, \That the present grades of satisfactory performance (A, B, C) be continued for Freshmen.\ A motion of \no action\ was passed after a minimal amount of dis- cuss ion. the Next, a discussion on report of the Committee on Continued on Page 2 At RepU;blican HQ by DEBBU: (;LASSER Enthusiasm, happiness, smiles. cries of delight, sigh~ of n:llcl. and -enforced confidence ... All of these were so e\ idmt at 9JO p.m. on November 7 a·t Schenectady Republican HeadLJtltu:ters. Alrca<:h the TV newscaster had announced Pn:sident Nixon's 651 i lead .:. The 1972 presidential election was over. There weren't many people at the head4uarters. only ahout 12: half of them were under 21. In speaking v.ith a 50-vear old volunteer fm the Schenectady Re-Elect the President ca~paign. I learned of the direction of their local efforts. There was \irtually no electioneering~ they concentrated instead on a \Get out and vot~\ drive. Early in October, all of the art?a's registered Democrab. Independents. and new voters were called and asked if the President could depend on their vote. About 30.1,( of those contacted responded positivdy, and it was these people who were .recal'led just before Election Day and asked to cast their votes. Nixon backers were very confident. ·A 37 year old interior decorator, one of the leaders at Republican Headquarters, was husy receiving election returns. She took time out to . tell me of her respect for the American democratic capitalistic system, hclieving it to be the finest type of government to emerge from history. feeling in this \Ayn Rand-ish' 1 . way, she saw Senator McGovern as a serious threat io · many of this c~untry's strongest foundations. Also fearing the possible apathy of Ntxon supporters on Electton Day, she felt quite morally obligated to work forthe Presidentls re-election. Each person spoke with conlidence of the President and our country. All· seemed relieved to hear of McGovern's defeat. Like the man they backed, these Nixon supporters have acted realistically, o_ptimistica,lly, and confidently. often standing up to th~ louder, more publicized put-downs of the liberal minority of thiS country, and won. President Nixon has exhibited such strength in his own convictions many times. He has only yet to somehow convey this strength, optimism, and confidence to the restless U.S. . citizens. Only then will he truly succeed in his presidential capacity. We've just given him four more years to try ... altt:rnate candidates. '' ould . generally fa\or Nixon o\er McCilnern. Sn, if one L\omhines the 21r·; Republican \ote with 171'; of the Independent vote (the R e pu b I i c a n a n d W a II a c c percent<_tges of \ otes among Independents e4uals ow·;. and ow·; of 25';·; is 17'.'() and the approximately 20'.'( of the Democratil' \ ote that Walla~.:c r~:c~i,ed in 196X (an approximation of Democratic \otcrs in the South \\ho are classified as weak Democrats and those a round the countrY who \otcd for Wallace). one appmachcs the 6o.w·; figure that 1\i:xon achie\cd in this election. It should he remembered that tl!'is analysis is of the crudest nature and may \cry \\ell he pnnen inaccurate when more incisive studies an: performed. hut. for the present. it seems to make some sort of sense. (Man\' ol the statistics used in th(s section of the article come from Political Beha\:ior of the American Electorate bv William H. Flanigan. published . .by Allyn and Bacon.) Just Plain Games Political Analyst Richard Scammon. speaking before an audience of Democratic Women on Thursday, stated that he thought George McGo\ern had run a \\hard-nosed\ campaign that was basically strategically sound. hui that from the very start he had a ··concrete hlock\ tied to his feet that constantly. Continued on Page 2 The Social Committee presents a night of blues ti>night with Taj Mahal and Spider John Koerner at 8:30 in Memorial Chapel. Tickets at the door will be $2.50.

• '. 2 CONCORD!ENS!S, hiday. N9veml2er 10, /972 . . . Reviewing Campaign 1972 The No-·CcJmPaiQ~ Campaign .. · · · Continued from Page I weighed him down. I cannot but agree with this ana lysis. McGovern left the convention hall in Miami with an estimated 60-to-40% defidt, and he ended up with about the same. The reasons for this concrete block effect are varied and l will leave i.t to people like Scammon to delve into all of their facets; there are, however, a few that I feel should be mentioned here. George McGovern, it seems, has been a victim of political pressures for the last few months. First pressured into accepting Eagleton as a running mate, he later was pressured into accepting his resignation. There is no r.eal way of determining the effects that this maneuver had on hi!< candidacy, hut it can be stated with some degree of assureclness that, for a man who was running ort a truth in politics platform, the whole affair cast some aspersions on McGovern's honesty., Pet.haps he never should have stated that he was behind Eagleton 1000%, or perhaps the press should not have made such a spectacle out of the search for an Eaglet-on replacement. Woatever be the case, the episode took up two valuable weeks of time that could have been spent campaigning; that could have given McGovern mor.e of the exposure that he so vitally needed were his campaign to ' have succeeded. The McGovern campaign staff also bears some examination. The press played up a lot of the internal squabbles that took place (possibly the end result of Work On Carnegie Continued from Page I Center, dad'!) arc infrequent and unpredictable. You may be laboring under that hard-to- surrender hut false assumption that UCol has some innate financial capacity. Tsk. There is some potential for controversy over the nat urc of rhe Snack Har. (Being contemporary-right-on st udcnts we should not litil to exploit this.) It will he a compound of technological wi/ardry ... a hevy of vending machinl'S ready to dispense study-break rations of coffee, soda. gum and various sundries. In spite of the obvious · intent•ion to avoid competing with Saga no cook and no friendly service one may wonder if this ca racity-50 snack bar might not do just that. A definite ,point in its favor is that . the snack bar and everything else in the Center will he open day and night. 24 hours. As far as ma·nagement ts concerned. Dean Malloy has eonsidaed the possihilit~ of giving the joh to a (iradu;ttl' st udenl. There is still much to be decided about this somewhat- unheard-of but no Jo,nger imaginary addition to the ever- i.ncreasing complex of social facilities at Union. There will be opportunities for students to work (voluntari~y) painting and decorating various rooms. More important, we should he considered, consulted, and heard . concerning such decisions as who will run the Center, what type of recreational facilities will be afforded, what possibilities exist for grants-in-aid and other compensated work in the Center what should he done, for instance. with the vacated Book Store and what plans will be made for future improvement and adaptation of the Center to growing student needs. If all goes well, by Spring l\crm there will be for the first time at llnion a centralited .. organi.t.ation of facilities for the sustenance of \Student Life.\ It's imror.tant that there be some student involvement with what is going on, because, if all goes as it should for a change, we will have had something to say about it. CXNDRDJ_A foullded at Union Collece in 1177 Editor-in-Chief ............................ (;eorge Rain News Editor ................................ Tim Cain Associate Editor ......................... Matthew Swartz Managing Editors.: ...................... Rita Morandi Jim Rosl~nberg J,caturcs Editor .- .......................... AI Reisch Sports Editor ............................... Bruce Batchelder Photo Editors_ ............................ .l.es Kernan the Agnew anacks on the press after the '68 campa,ign) and it became a real campaign issue. Whether people regarded the Nixon campaign as rehearsed or not, they undoubtedly viewed it as ()etter coordinated. Indeed, to some it seemed more as if McGovern were a ~hird party candidate trying to make do with what he had, even if he knew the fight was rea.lly hopdess. I think this is oversimplifying things, but there ,is some merit to the theory. In the primaries, the McGovern campaign was solidly organized by Mankiewicz, Gary Hart, and the rest. After the nomination had been secured, \oJd..:Hne\ Democrats joined the campaign, some with .total: efforts .and some with the intent of saving some semblance of a Democratic Party for 1976. As I see it, these are the people who hurt the McGovern organization more than any other single force. They weren't really backing a man, they were trying to sustain a party through a period of hardship. 'Naturally, conflicts between the hard.:Jine McGovernites and these peop'le would develop, and they did. The McGovern organization just couldn't .affoFd to be as fragmented as it ended up to be. One final comment: the Democratic Party wa~ really the only party involved in the election for President this year.. The Republican Nati,(mal Committee was replaced by the Committee to Re-ele.ct the President. For a.l\l intents and purposes, McGovern was not running against Richard· Nixon ... he was running against the President of the United State!; with all of the history and sanctity that the American polity ascribes to that office. Being a.ble to defeat an incumbent who is running as an individual is difficult; defeating the President running as the President is near impossible. When one adds all of these characteristics of the election together: the view that McGovern was on the 0utside of the political mainstream (much like a third party), the internal problems in his campaign staff, Eagleton and the resulting pressures and press coverage, and the image of the Nixon candidacy, it is relatively easy to sec why Scammon contends that McGovern's \concrete block\ effectively msured the failure of his campaign. Perhaps this remark by Sir Winston Churchill best sums up the Presidential camphign of 1972: \Polirio arl' a/m(l.\1 a.1 c.\\citiiZR as 11·ar. and lfllir£· a.1 c/w;~-:, rou,,. In 1rar yuu wn 1,n~r he killed om'{', hur in po/itio many ; iiiJ£'.\. •• by DAVE CASTLEMAN The Jead editorial in the November 8th issue of the New . York Times was directed toward \The Lost Opportunity.\ In these strange. days, this particular heading could apply to almost anything happening in the United States, for it seems that the country h!J;S had a -propensity for \losing\ opportunities in recent history. However, in this case, th~ editors were specificall¥ concerned with the past Presidential campaign. In simple summary, the editorial stated ti:tat there had been 11<) campaign, and tha-t the result of this was a denial of basic fun<:tions. which facilitate and legitimize our system -of governme.nt. Among the functions that the Times cited as missing Were \drawing the people away frorn. their ordinary private concerns\ so that they might take a look at their 'larger communities, and that \the campaign of two or three months is a time to recall the nation's enduring ideals and to measure today~s men against those ideals.\ The brunt of the blame for the absence of these functions must be placecl upon the shoulders of Mr. Nixon. As the Times noted, ·he was so confi(ient in the weekly polls that he \not only refused to debate his opponent but refused to engage the issues.\ Perhaps this was a refreshing bit of honesty and an admittance of gross incapability rather than refusal. For whatever reasons, evasive televisicm spots, non- political pt0-America motorcades, and telegrams to sports teams, were as dose as he got to reality. All of this is not to say that Mr. McGovern was without contribution. Granted that the Eagleton affair did much .. to damage his credibility and his ability .to get right to the issues, but the fact remains that he was never able to find an issue which would firmly establish his campaign. Perhaps, as Mr. McGovern suggested several times, this was an impossibility given .. the now famous \surrogate\ techniques of Mr. Nixon. At times it did seem that - he was running against that Democrat from Texas. The obvious losers as a result of all this are the people of the. United States. Despite record turnouts at the .polls, I do not think that most people Were compelled to look out beyond their \private concerns\ and the ·~enduring ideals of Jefferson, Lincoln, and Wilson\ were not given a . giance: ~~ . is. p~infully ironic that. these .function~. were in abs~nce ?t a time wh.en t:herf! is a sickening lack o( . com111uQ'ity awareness, and people are · as uncertain ~s possi.ble a:bouUdeals. In closing, the Tin,es claimed that the result of the no- campaign campaign is ''tha.t Jhe nation's future cour&e is u~clear and its people. !Jninspired.:'. A.t a time when there should be a sense of certainty and direction, as well as a knowledge about the man chosen to ·.lead, there .are undercurrents .of ferment a,nd a knowledge of the man that many wish they did not have. Mr. Nixon's track record over the past four years has been erratic at best, and the country can not afford another four years of inconsistency. Perhaps he will deem it .. proper . ·to . peg:in campaigning now. He had better do plenty if he. expects this country to cele bra t.e its anniversary in 1976. ,Senat·e: Continued from Page I Development, recomfilending the elimination of aU motor traffic from the centra'! part' of campu~. was begun. A · motioil to table this discussion · wqs· · ·quickly passed, however. The ·meeting was then adjourned. Steering Committee The Minutes. of the Steertng Committee of November I, 1972: T~e meeting was . convef1ed in the Beta lounge at 9:25 p.m. by Pre·sident Tony Faga. The first matter of business was' \the consideration of the constiiufion of the Sky-Life Flying Club. following discussi'on, ·the Steering Committee voted not to accept their constitution ·by a I -5 vote.~ The Public Interest Research Group was reviewed next, and, after discussion, it was unanimously voted to accept its constituti-on. The matter of new business was dealt with next. The Committee on Committees~ appointments were presented to the Steering Committee for approval. The motion was made and seconded to accept these appointments and was voted upon unanimously. Jeff Weilhurg Business Metnager .................... ; ... Michael J. Hurley National Advertising ................... Stephen KeUy Traffic Court Woody Lauer reported on the meetlng with Dean Malloy and Dean Beam concerning the Ad Hoc Committee established to study the housing problem. It was resolved at this meeting tO form a board consisting ·of the two deans and students . to consider the housing demands·, of the students. Future plans were also made to have dorm meetiilgs where compiaints could :be voiced. S h · · · · M'k ·a· \'\'tet'n . u !.cnptwns............................... 1 e er ..... I . . . r·-t• . ., t u· k man ·.xccuttH: ·.ull-ors ........................ e er tc er l.oui\ S. Snitkoff' CONCORDY STAFF Francesco Isgro Louis Barash Ray Faught 'Phyllis R. Edelman Pat Bohen Bill Erichson Gail Goodman Frank DeLucia Jim Smith Robert Shugoll Steven Krakauer Brian Lewis Mark Mindel JudyDein Stewart Abramson 'Bill West Marty Sherman Robin Waring Ron Aines Paul Connors Scott Reiter Phil A!c3bes Tom Conley Malcolm Snowden Dave Strom Don Hamerman Nelson Weil Woody Lauer Fred Lucas Larry Wharton Doug Carpenter Bob sh. Billy OeBear David Wagenknecht Debbie Glasser Scott Burns Andy Pearce ('\(.\l'.f'Jt Jl!rt11,!! L.'\.UUIIliiiHHI <llhf \,Jt.:.ltltlll Pl'l,llH.l-.. h\ tit\.· 'llldL.'tH h,,d,~ tll l 111~111 CoiiC)!t'. St•ht'llt't\I.Jth. \ \ \;llltHI,!I .rdlt'IINII!! '•\l'l•''cnt.lll\t'. \.rlhnr,tl I dllt\illlPriOII \dl .. rll,lfl!! St'l\llt\t'. Inc·. (\o>lkpt' l'rrhJr,ht·r, Rcprt''l'llldlll~. \allt>n;rl I ducatu>n<~l \d\l'llr,rn!! 'ot'l\1<\<'. lrll·. \ \ (\ I drr,orr.tl Our .. ,·. Old (i\111. r·nron (\<llkgt• l'uhlrt\illltlll Ollrt:t•. lh,· ·\\\''h \\orld l'ut\>llc.llr•'ll'. \'I Stalt' Sfrt't'l. Sdi<'l;t't'!<ldl. \ \ 1~.10' .. 1·11•·~.1~(, i\r11t\lt'd 111 rile Sd1•'11t'cl.rd\ ~'\'' o>llrcc d' Second Cia;, \Lui \la!lcl .Suh>t'l·lplhlll 211 Ct'lll'\ '\''r' s~ .r \t'dl dt'll\at'd am\ hat· 111 the I nrlt•d St,rlt'' lleadlmt• i<>r all '''I''· 11hrd1 11111,1 /1,· 1\rt'd .llld dnuhlt\·'J>.It\t:d. ''·pin ''\ \1ond.1~ .tnd I htrr\l'l\ \' till' C\unrord! <·>ll·r,·,· . .J.htnt' <lid l\h.rp Olfrct'lclcrlwnt• tiumht•r r\ .170-6/ ~~-hut tilt· ••llrn· '' ••nh 111 u,,. t-lll \!,•nd;JI and I hur,d<t! nt)!hl' hn ;til ~drtt>rtal matt<'\· ,-,,1/ rlw t'drttll·lll·dl~t'l .u .1<J,1. 1640; l<lrtnlorm<rtwn .:all Student \l\lll.llll\ Oll.rn· .11 3\·0-611~ The Traffic Cou·r.t encourages all students, administrators, and faculty members who have not yet registered their cars to please do so by Nov. 17. Mr. Kleinkuuf will soon be giving out five dollar fines to those who do not :have their cars regi.stered. The registration stickers must be placed on the left front and right rear bumpers in plain sight. Students expecting vistors with cars to be parked on camp.us for a period extending beyond the weekend must get a visitor's parking permit ftom Mr. * * * * Biology majors: your student representatives ·- Dave Conrey, Estelle Cooke. Mark Jor.risch, and Cathy Toye - have mail boxes on the 3rd floor of the Science and Engineering Bldg; This is to allow any Bio student who has questions. complaints, or comments regarding the Bio Dept. to present them' to the student representatives. In turn., the representatives will present them to the Bio. Faculty. Kleinkauf. These visitors must park their cars in the general parking lots. The Traffic Court asks everyone to please keep their cats locked when unattended. Do not leave anything valuable in them. And please drive carefully at an times. As many car owners may know, the Traffic Court is not only responsible for helping to formulate rules regarding cars en campus hut also to take traffic ticket cases. You have a right to contest your traffic fines. The meetil).g was· adjourned: at 10:00 p.m. Th5= next .meetjng Will be opeo· to iU who '~re.i:nteressed and will be held on Novembet->13 at9:15p.m.il' Hu.ll5. Levrs Dave's' Mens Sbop·:. . 4S3 Stat~ St. . (downtown Scpe,nectady) . ;: FIVE ROOMS AVAilABLE FOR PARTIES AND BAN.QUETS Featuring Italian-American Cuisine mof~el' :lerro ~ ledta~.P{tf!-f 1115 BARRETT STREET SCHENECTADY, ~·- Y. FREE PARKING Te1DI6~9554 or FR7-2642 OPEN 7 DAYS A WEEK Favored By The Union Athletic TeaJ:11s! d p f ]'I p F il c l- d e b a t t ~ i: l l e t I

p{linfully were ther~ is omnntl}..ity are·as claimed the no- \that Jhe u~clear At a ·be- a diwction, the .. ave (l;nd a rnany .. Mr. over the erratic can not of he will begin better this t.e its . gel the traffic us, table then - ring 1972: ned in .rn. by e first 'the it uti on Club. the not to a 1-5 terest it Was its The ttees~ to for made these the and Ad to It to the . to js of were :be at Will ... CONCORDIENSJS, fl'iday, Novuml>cr 10, 1972 3 ..... B.LITHE.R. ' , h ,. >'' ·\ ~ \' ' ,. .• PIRd will present Peter Pr:yor, director of 1he. · Consu.mer Protection Board;· in- the Hale House Lounge on . Tuesday, Novetnber 14, at 7:3U 'P.M: Mr .. Pryor, appointed to this position this August by Governor Rock'efetler, has lopg been intt:rested · in ·environmental, consumer, and soda! problems. He would like to have a discussion of such iss lies, especia1ly to st.renghen his board's irrt(l;ge. He feels strongly about strengthening the role of the cons~umer in the :marketplece by keeping him informed and protecting his interests. Surely· it is Mr. ·Pryor's hope that Tuesday night's disC1lssion at Union will help to further these ends. * * * * israeli Folk .dancing wJH be held this· coming Tuesday, Nov. 14, 'at 7:30 p,m .. Look for signs to indicate the location of the festivities. Come down and join us!. lfs :great fun!! * * * * The Jewish <:ommunity Center is or:ganizing a Chot:al Group, open to all m~m_bers : of the community who· erijoy singing with or without voice training. Special emphasis wi.U be given to Jewish and Hebrew music. The first .meeting of the group will take place on Thursday, Nov. 16 from. 8:00-10;00 P.M. If yop're interested call the JCC at 377- 8803 or Mike Sfl,chs .at 3 70-::45,61.- Please come and j.oin us!f * * * * Pre-registration materials for winter term will be available in the Office of the Registrat:, Room 2, Administration Builping, b~ginning. Tuesday, November ·14th. Students are urgeq to promptly· secure their copy of. t~ese ·J?~terials. Stu4ents who do not P.1an to retu!:n. to Union for· the wii1ter terin, except fo.r . .graduating seniors, should also report and give notice of their plans. · * * * * Students should confer with Faculty Advisors during the five days November 15-17 and the 20th. Some departments may announce special arrangements for advising. Please be alert for such announcement. * * * * ,£_ .. The 1:,J nion College ~baret .will hold :its third performance of :the · se~sbn in ArtS 20Z this Satwday, November ll. The pvice is just 50¢, which includes all :the refreshm.ents you <;an eat, and .curtain time is 8:00 p.m. Featured performers this week will be Professor Carl Niemeyer, Liz Huntley, and Grace. Sardell. All are welcome. :1: * * * In the Fut~re ..... Would all C~ncordy staff photographers have their film they want developed at the darkroom 2;jO on Monday and Thutsday afternoons. This will aid out darkroom workers immensly. * * * * There will be a SPECIAL Introductory Lecture for a course in Transcendental Meditation by Mr. Charles Donahue (SIMS Regional Coordinator for the Eastern United States,. and long- time pr.otege of Maharishi Mahesh Yogi·) ort the Physiology .of Consciousness and recent medical research on TM. It will be held on Tuesday, Nov. 14, in Old Chapel at 8 P.M. All are invited. * * * * The Union College Record.er Consort will ho:id art organizational meeting in Fox. Lounge at 8:00p.m. on Tuesday, November 14, 1972. If you play t!Ie recorder (with any degree of proficiency) and are intereste.d in joining an ensemble please come. .. * * * * lhe Department of Physics will present a talk by Dr. Robert Fleischer (G E Research -and Development Center): \Charged Particle Tracks in Solids: Application in Space and on the Earth,\ ort Thursday Nov. 16, at 4:30 in room N 116, . Science Center. Refreshments at 4':00 in room N303. * * * * The Fe will be an open meeting. of the Steering Committee on November 13, at 9:15 P.M. in Hu. HS. * * * * Any Union Coed interested in purchasing a l}nion College seal ring instead of the usual stone ring, .please get in touch with either Joan Buckley, 346-5895, or the Bookstore. * * \' * Course requests are due at the Office of the Registrar not later than November 22nd. * * * * EXPOSITION ENTERPRISES Over 25 Leading Manufacturers will be Exhibiting The Very Latest in Hi-Fi Components. presents EXPOSITION New World of Sound Audio Exposition wiil be held at the Sheraton Inn Towne Hoiel 30? Broadway, Albany N.Y .• on !burs.,_ NO!· 1!i (Opening) 3 to 10:30 Fri.,Nov. 17 '10 am: to 10::iO'pm ·' . '.Sat{, Nov. 18 10· am· to 10:30 pm Sun., !llov~ 19 19 to 8 pm - ..... ~ 12 Nopi)- ~ lnirod!.lttlo·n~toHi' Fi Components ~t\~y·leori<lrd Feif;!!h;m . 12:45 ~~~o';if.ella~oel p~p & Rock Concert • presenteit by larry Zide ' ' . · 1:'lil' • ·• .f.o(Jr,C:halinel Sound Semhiar · • m~derator~ l;vry Zlde 2:15 . - . . Favorite•Fow· c;:hannel ·and Classical, Concert with Leonard Feldman ' . · 3.to ~ p.m. \Live performance Everything For The Sound Enthusiast. larry ~ide Editor, Stereo Hi Fi Times Magazine and Leonard Feldman· Well Known Author an() Lecftrer in the Hi Fidelity Field 4 P•lll•. Hi HComporient Introduction 4:45 Classical Concerts again pres;ent~!dJ• 5:3D Four Channel Sound Seminar 6:15 Question.and Answer Session from Audience 7:15 Four Channel. Pqp & Rock 8:30 MICA Group, evening show By. Jvjle!;A (Ntercury Records Arr;,,,,.~. I New World of Sound Events Ace Presented By Exposition Enterprises 350 Central Ave., Albany featurin.g the Electro·Comp Synth~sizer · For further lnformati<m: Ph. 518'-465-1471 l••i····.;•••••iADMISSION•••II!••••••••••: \' Ill o<' q. Ill : . c,o'f< General Admission $2,oo :<>·~ : • : 0 ~« With This Discount Coupon $1,so ~~. : Ill . .,c . -· . ~ • ·• '0' Children under 12 FREE s..ft. 111 • ·' (0\f of mlmi.,,tnn willlw,tlt•d\11\t•d from .lhY'f)Urrhase- of \.r • I . '10 ~or rnou• ,11 p 1 ulirip,.unJl d(',,lnr~ wuhin· 10 d:ws. of 1~'-' \hOW - 'I -The Theatre by HARRY tiPTON and JEFF WISOFfo An interview with Charles Steckler, designer, Union Theatre Q: When you design a show, what idea!! form ;the basis for your communication to the audience? A: Yes, there's a limitation where people are forced to divide tlleir attentions into many directions. Of course, this keeps us from the self-indulgence where we see only theatre. In that sense, it's a positive limitation. I think th~ trimester is an idiotic system for the arts. h makes the students' work so highly Q: What are the major problems ()f running a (ollege theatre, and what do you see as solution!i? A: This is the fi'rst time I've tried to develop a physical theatre - before, I was always em.ptoyed as a student, or· a carpenter, or something like that. The problem is probably the most basic one: does the theatre want to exist here? This problem is a personal one for me: 1 got into scenic design because it was the field that was closest to what I wanted to do, and for the last eight or ten years, I've been tty.ing to find out what that thing is. 1 always seemed to end up in the theatre. l think that first we have to find out whether the college community wants a theatre that is more sophisticated. If they do, that m~ans paying for a pmfessional staff, and 1 think that the staff. or lack of it, is a big problem, and the trimester hurts theatre here.. We can never operate smoothly until we have a staff which can help us. A: What I thin·k the play, or changes from play to play, says to the audience. There is never any set format; it is the distillations of my impressions of reading the pla.y, listening to the director, listening to the actors, or ideas developed from personal contacts. Sometimes Barry and I will be sitting in the Green Room and suddenly we will find something funny. Then we wonder if we might be able to communicate this idea or joke to an audience. Di.\nct ia was that way; it found its own a\ldience. ·condensed and concentrated that their time is so magnified that there is virtually no time to take a breather. Q: You have mentioned doing Shakespeare at Union, and a Gilbert and Sullivan show is schedul~d for the winter. Is the theatre ready for it? A: In a year and two months 1 have seen such a turnover of students that I don't know if they are ready for it. Barry and I are ready for it. Classical theatre requires a different kind of training and 1 think we're prepared. Please note that those who are science or engineering sophomores (or 5-year degree .st.udents), who have Dean's list standing, and who have proficiency in either French or German are eligible to .apply for the ETH Scholarship. (All of you should have received notice well before now if you are eligible). Please do not delay getting forms for application, for the deadline is soon past. Prof. Martin in Chemistry (S339) has the forms. which you may pick up from his desk even if he is not there. The honor rnay now be utilized in either Lausanne, or Zurich, Switzerland, PROCTOR'S W:1I~ STATE ST .. SCHENECTADY Nov. 8-15 Marx Bros. Big Store Day At The Circus Nov. 16-2:2 Butterflies Are Free Nov. 22-28 Walt Disney's Dumbo Legend qf Lobo Nov. 29-Dec. 8 Bad Company ALFIE Q: In what terms would you ~fine Union theatre? A: I'm convinced that theatre at Union has the potential to be among the best in the country . The variety of talents and disciplines in the students makes me believe that we can do a great many things. Q: What is your basic ambition for Union theatre? A: There are many things I have to think about. Somehow we have to reach out. When I wa; in high school, I wanted to be a great painter. in the tradition of the Renaissance and Baroque masters. When I went into a museum, I felt as if l had a link for a moment with the past. I felt those emotions that the artist must have felt when he created a work, and somehow I wanted to create something that would say to people a hundred years later, .. Look! l'm Charles Steckler! I'm here, and this is what I feel.\ We all have a great superiority feelirg over those who are dead, and it's only at rare times, like when you read a work by, say, Shaw, that you can communicate with the dead. I could never feel equal to Shaw, but I can stilf empathize with him. At this point in time. for · me., theatre seems to he the place where I can make this type of statement, and hopefully. in the future, people will remember and say, \So that's how he felt.\ · An interview with Barry Smith. director, Union Theatre Q: You originally set out to Thailand as a missionary. How related are your views on religion and theatre? A: I think they're the same. Q: Why? A: Because they're both dealing with fundamental questions of reality and one's · existence. It's the working out of how to make something which you get second, third, or fourth- hand, into something which will be first-hand and significant. God is where your ultimate concern is located, in theatre and religion. Q: Are there limitations in directing college theatre? THE OP£N DOOR., QJ)a{i!:!J Booi Store- ~ 5oofs jm- ad ~es ~ 136 JAY STRE.ET E}'en .Mon:-Sai.+JO:Jo-s: 30 Tfiurs. tift 9:00 yfWtw-r 3fb-ZJ19 Cmne in ani br()Wse! MAMA BIANCHI'S RESTAURANT 1135 Barrett St. .Real Italian Food Cooked To Order ·· · We Cater To Students Q: Is there a special quality that you try to bring out in actors and actresses? A: Yes. That they learn to trust themselves to make artistic choices that are strong enough and demanding enough that they work more fully, and cause their partners to work more fully. They're not puppets or mannikins - but they must discover what, in any given situation, the possibilities are. and must avoid the easy choice. Q: Could you define ''easy choice't? A: An easy choice is something they've done before: an independent choice - where you don't need anyone else to solve a problem. It's like choosing Nixon - it's so easy because he's so predictable. People .prefer. the security of Hell, rather than the cha.llenge of the unknown. The easy choice also involves making oneself vulnerable, in all ways. Q: All too often, and especially here at Union, with its Center I and (:enter II, we find a distinction between the arts and science. Do you see your theatre as deuling with this conflict? A: If we're not, we should he. I think it's very important that in any form of art, students must be able to see what that artistic process is about. When Oppenheimer tried to stop what was happening with atomic power, he was making an artistic choice, which sometimes serves to negate what we have been trained to do. It deals with value decisions, and if we have anything to share with the scientific community, it is to recogni7e that their choices have to include the factor of lit~. Sometimes their choices will force them to just pack up and go somewhere, maybe to just think that kind of freedom is not taught in the sciences. The art1st1c choice. we must remember. is not a safe one. It does not say that, you will \reap rewards\ by making it. Q: If there were a play which approximated your philosophy, what would it be about? And why? A: I'm just beginning to explore the process. of how to evolve a play. I may have the best play in the world, and I may deny it in working with- people. I'm still searching for that play through which I can find out what I'm about. I'm a teacher in search of a community. FOR SALE 2 foot lockers $5 each 40 in. long, 18 in. wide Eves. 372-9380 Levrs. • Dave's' Mens Shop 453 State St. (downtown Schenectady) IMPROVE. YOUR FRENCH OR SPANISH while you ·teach others to speak English. Peace Corps . and VISTA need TEFL! (Teaching English as a .foreign Language) teachers; TEFL certification is not necessary. For information and applications see your placement director or call !Margie Arnoczky /NYC. The Frie1'1dliest Place in Town l!aRIBill!!!!!!!'JII~i!!!!!!al.~ill!!!BII-~I~!JI!:illli!!!!!lllll!.!lllll!!!!mlllill!!!!!!al!!!!lalll!IJI4. ...........--::.:...=u.....=..z..::...3 .=I SAT. ····································~·· I . (212 264-7123 . -

4 Friday. Nu\>emher 10, 1972 Dutchmen Hoopsters Look Forward To Coming Season All-American Jim Tedisco has graduated and with him goes every Union career scoring and assist rec9rd. But the Union outlook is not m grim as it seems. Third year coach Gary Walters has four starters and the sixth man back from last year's 19-3 team, plus an impressive .sophomore and a promising transfer. Heading the list of returnees are senior tri-captains Tom Bacher, Mike Doyle, and Geoff Walker, all 6-3, who have won 37 of 43 games over their two-year varsity careers. Bacher is the best shooter of the three while Doyle is the principal rebounder and Walker has earned his spot with aggressive defense. All three are double-figure scorers. For a change, the Dutchmen will have some depth in the front court as junior Tom Combs and sophomore Charlie Gugliotta, both 6-4, will see regular action. Combs is an exceptional shooter an·d will play a lot against zone defenses while Gugliotta, the leading scorer, rebounder and passer on last year's 10-6 freshman team. is the only natural center on the squad. Bill Carmody is the returning starterin the backcourt. and the 5-ll junior will be the kev to U nion1s success this winter. Rated an exccllen.t pa~ser and qu.arterhack, Carmody is a heady player who will scc>rc more now with Tedisco gone. · The fifth spot is a hattie between 6-2 Chuck Abba, last year's sixth man, and Fairfield University transfer Luke Dillon, 5-8. Dillon has more speed and is somewhat more a threat on oHense, hut Abba lends size to a small team and is a tough defender. Sophomores Kevin Crawford, Bill Underhill and Rich Maisano will see reserve action. The Dutchmen will again be .lacking in height, with no one over 6-3 slated to start. and appear to have no heir apparent to the explosive scoring or Tcdisco. The Dutchmen should field a veteran cluh with balance that plays good defense, though. In line with N cw England Small College Athlet-ic Conference (N ESCAC) regulations, Union will not usc freshmen in varsity competition. The I 972-73 schedule is as. follows: Date Opponent Dec. 2 Middlebury 13 Kings Point 14 B:ridgepQr.t ·~ . 29 Capital District 30 r curnament Jan. 6 Clark 10 Rochester 17 Amherst 20 Wesleyan 24 Williams 31 Trinity Feb. 2 Utica 3 Drew 7 Hartwick 9 Hcbart 10 St~vens 14 Hamilton - 17 Coast Guard Acad. 20 RPI 22 Harpur 24 Pace The Union ~occer team ended a disappointing season on a \\inning note with a come from hehind victory O'-'Cr Trinity, in front of a large Homecoming cnmd last Saturday. Place Schenectady Kings Point Bridgeport,. Conn. Schenectady Schenectady Schenectady Scheqe~tady • Schenectady Williamstown, Mass. Schenectady Utica, N.Y. Schenectady Oneonta, N.Y. Schenectady Schenectady Clinton, N.Y. New London, Conn. Schenectady Binghamton Schenectady season ua Dave's Mens Shop · 453 State St. (downtown Schenectady) TI-t-captain Geoff' J'Valker photo by Les Kernan ................ ~ Intramural's by BUFFALO Rumors have been circulating the past few days to the effect that intramural basketball had been dropped J;rqm the winter sports budget. These rumors were vehemently denied yesterday (November 9) by Athletic Director Bruce Allison. When asked if there. was any truth to· the ri.miors, Allison flatly stated \No way. If anything, I want the intramural program expanded.\ This was the reason given for adding cross country to the intramural program · · to give added depth to the choice offered :the students. ' There ·are a few changes that will be instituted this year, though. Any fraternity who wishes to enter a team in the intramural basketball league must declare this desire. In the past. all frats were automatically entered into the league. If a frat did not have a team,. a forfeit would result, which destroys the 'whole idea behind intramurals. * * * * There·are still openings on the Concordy sports staff for this winter. Please contact Bruce Batchelder at 346-9692 or come up to the Concotdy offices, located above the Rathskellar on Monday or Thursday nights. EJIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIII!§ i MIKE'S I ! ERIE BLVD.· ·i = :: - - - - ~ HOT DOGS ~ - - ~ HAMBURGERS E - - - - ~ BEST STEAK ~ = = ~ SANDWICHES i§ = = I • 1135 *E~r: ~lvd. I MIIII!IIIIIIIIIIIIIIIJIJIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIJIIIIIIIIIII'F Griddefs Redcfy · · ~·For Panthers> Luckless Union College, with a ' host of starters on the . sidelines with InJUnes, will entertain undefeated Middlebury Saturday at Alexander Field with the visiting Panthers shooting for their first perfect season since 1937. Sophomor~ . R_o'l Westbr,ook .. holds the key: to · tlie -,Union offense, leading the ·DtHchmen it! ; •rushing and receiving. The : diminutive · ·'ha.tft>ack :~-.i$· ; ai&o : ,Uniorfs ·~most • -danget\Su&: Kfck ~ return man and apparently had tied the Williams game on ·~ 58 yard touchdown run with a punt, Union is 3-4 after consecuti-ve disappointing one touchdown losses to top rated Hobart, 28-21, and to once beaten Williams, 6-0. And the losses have .been costly with senior safety Mike Raa·b and senior fu!Jback Rich Jaszczak lost for the season and captain Tom Anacker, a linebacker, senior center Skip Lega and sophomore defensive tackle Don Rupsis doubtful (or Middlebury be<;:a use of injuries. Middlebury is looking for its first undefeated season in 35 years and comes to Schenectady off a 49-0 thumping of traditional rival Norwich. For added incentive the Panthers <;:an recall their season's finale the past two seasons when they have been upset by Union. Halfback Phil Pope is the top Middlebury threat with J 6 touchdowns thus far this season and a six yard plus rushing average. Pete Mackey and Doug Cranphin split t'he quarterbacking d.uties while end' Terry _McGuirk is the leading receiver. Linebackers Jim Berrington and Tom McNeill key the defense which has posted two shutouts this fall. Despit(! the rash of injuries, Union still shows a tough defense, particula~ly against the run, with junior middle guard Jim Kewley leadi-ng the way the past ·two weeks~ Junior Ken Grey, who spent most of the season recuperating from summer surgery, is now back and is playing regularly at linebacker. Blither * * * *· -RAH! RAH! RAH! ATTENTION: All those still interested in cheerleading for basketball winter term! Meeting in 313 North, Monday night. 7:00 en punto! This is your last chance to hit the big time! If you absolutely can't make it, call us, either Ellen or Sandy at 370-0592. . ~<b>~~~ Gra~~~!! •m~' .~~ns~ but they have F.. big values. ·\t § ~> ~ •·V ·;_:~~ Schenectady's famous § diamond shop, ~ s (for three generations) - 166 Jay St.· ~ C THREE UNION. GRADUATES IN THE FAMILY a ·play that was nullified when officia-ls ca,Iled a clipping penalty. Senior Dave Rearic will start · at quarterback hut sophomor~ Joe Urschel .saw his fi.rst ·quart~rback action of the season against Williams when installed to bring some life into an anemic Dutchman passing attack. Senior Bob Mitchell is now handling the split receiver chores while senior Bob · Wilson and sophomore Pete Feaman are the most consistent interior line performers. Juni:or Pete Perry will see duty at center in place of Lega . Union leads the series with M iddlehury 10-9 with five games ending in ties. The rivalry· was begun in 1903 and revived in 1970 after a 19 year absence. Kickoff at Alexander Field is set for Ho p.m. · ;~ * * * *. For those of you who .wilJ not be able to attend . the game Saturday, a chance to see your favorite jock in action will happ.en on Satu:t(iay: ni.g_ht at 10:00 p.m. Channel 17 is: taping the entire -ga:me. and she~-ing it that night: .lfyou can't make the . ~a me, watch 'it on Channel I? ~ · ~a.tur.day..nightp, s~~ .,. __ \'~~ ' SIERRA The Si~rra js a . genuine cape leather jacket that is soft as butter. One of many fine Zero King jackets to choose from. Trailing 1-0, the Garnet got e\en on a Paul Martini shot from 20 yards out, midway through the first half. Trinity regained the lead on a penalty kick and after several near mis~es, Union tallied twice in a matter of seconds, with Craig Jeffries getting the first of the two and Sandy Wilder getting the winning goal. The victory left the Dutchmen booters with a final record of 4-5- 1. Much had been expected of this team during pre-season and optimism flowed. But after an opening game victory over Rochester, bad breaks and injuries began to take their toll. Flashy forward Jo.hn Serbetzian was knocked out for the year and several other key players were sidelined for several games at a time. The highlight of the year was a 1-Q victory over rival and potential soccer power RPI. ~·~~<b>~_ rB;ts;;;~w~R:~:r~~Y:::Ec::t~:;;::::;-, ~~~~i. Some ~f the things to look for care and skill in order to turn a a misleadingly low \flat rate.:' !iii! t:~ m a repair shop can save you a profit on time cohsuming repairs. Factory service authol'izations 'iii. ::r good ~eal of money . and Look for a shop that will give indicate a degree of reliability ,.if }!! aggravation, and make o~nmg a a close estimate on a repair and and often, a complete set oniii ::J TV or stereo a lot easter and no.\ify you before the work is service manuals and parts for!!!~ J~ muc.h more pleasant. done. This way you will know in your unit. This is a great factor iJ :H Beware of th.?se shops . that advance what parts your .set ln getting repairs done better and Jii lafayette Once again things look good , for next year, with only Co- . CLOTHES lNC. ·. ':i:i: offer a ··nat rate on a repatr of requires and how much labor will faster . \:t ..... S:portswe~r 'IJ[ster~o equipment. ~t is .impossible be expended. Fin~ll.y, look for a shop ~hereji .;.. Gift Items - :::::for a shop to decide m advan~e A shop willing to do this there 18 a low pressure. fnendly ::; Shirts By. . :::::how. much :~bor a ,. repatr indicates that there should be no approach, and the personnel areJi Van Heusen fi reqmres. The flat rate la!Jor mystery to your repair, an'd more willing to spend time and effort iii! Harbor Master fj charge often leads to t;h€ ~ale of important, no need to seU discussing your set and its iii! . Rainwear iiiii unneeded parts and sktmpmg on unnecessary parts to make up for problems. t. Shoes By L 7 ~~~%~ r;..e_...,_B_a~.ly .... &- 01111 Ve,..r-de....,._...-r 416.State 374-5287 •l

itl' \ vt · d s founded at Union College in 1877 Vol. 102, No. 16 (3\? 5\?.) Tuesday, November 14, 1972 What After Vietnam: S,ix Years Later by PROF •. JQSEPH F:INKE·LSTEIN Politics Politics and political (These comments were written in March, 194)6, and published in the Concordy on two successive weeks. Except for some changes in example, they remain virtually the .same.- J.F.) The war in Vietnam will one clay soon be over. Not soon enough for many Americans, and for many others throughout the rest of the world. Whether that unhappy war ends with a bang or arrangements are ever more difficult than military adventures, and they will remain so. The technology of carrying on modern war glorifies simplicity. Equipme.nt is so sophisticated; and so beautifully controlled by electronic and other scientific gear that we become angry and frustrated when it does not operate With 100% effectiveness. a whimper we cannot now foresee, but the .problem of Vietnam is a finite one, and one day we must face the dawn of a day without Vietnam. For some Americans that dawn will be a day of intellectual unemployment. What do we do now? Where do we go from here? End of the War· Let me suggest\ that the world will not be entirely empty of problems after Vietnam. Almost everyone of any competence, and some of no competence, have spoken on the Vietnamese situation; I do not propose to add to this voluminous literature in these few comments. No one is more keenly aware of the horrors of war, of its senseless cruelties, and of its human costs than the historian. No American surely· took pleasure in the firing of villages, the defoliation of fields by chemical pesticides, the destruction of pitiful peasant holdings, the terrorization .of women and children, etc. We cannot also conceal those unpleasant and uncomfortable feelings of self-deception and shame which the war has brought us from our own official and government spokesmen. We have not only suffered much abroad, but we have suffered in our own pride and self-image. Moreover, it seems from what evidence we have available that we are thinking along pretty traditional lines for the long run in Vietnam and in Southeast Asia. Without doubt, we shall bring to beat on this geographical area massive pressures , both political and economic whether the peoples, the governments, or the institutional framework of society are capable of absorbing or utilizing these gifts. The United States, and the American people for the most part, think in highly structured and sequential categories. First, let us take care of the military problem, then we deal with the political, after that the economic, and beyond this we see a small but distinct vision of a little United States living in good-will, peace, and abundance and enjoying the American way of life or something pretty close to it. To overdraw the ·picture is . · to distort it, but also to enlarge the frame to see it better. We do think this way ~ not with our intelligence, but with our fears, feelings and hopes. Realities have not much · altered this American pattern, and probably won't for a long time, but sober experience over the past two decades has shaken us, and perhaps explains ·The variables of political arithmetic, however_. increase geometrically, and they will be there after the B-52's return to their fields on Guam. Almost nothing suggests that we will handle our political problems adequately; it seems clear that a bankruptcy of ideas rather than a general prosperity of alternatives prevails. Imagination has not been our strong point these many months. Against the intensity and poverty of the Asiatic we show only a barely concealed dislike. When in doubt, support a local general or strong man - at least in the short run their manners seem better, and their language more familiar to us. Until our State Department recruits its personnel from wider social strata, and respects professional abilities more highly, this bias is built into American policy. And so we will make political decisions. We will stick things together with \Scotch\ tape and ·hope for the best. If our political style is so lumpy, there remains the further bastion of American policy - Economic Aid. How many billions will it take? How many billions will it take in economic aiel to correct political gerry-building? How many eggs equal one apple? Our wealth will flow into this area in such a flood that even the ancient overflow of the Nile must seem a trickle by comparison. If. money can replace coconut palms, they will be replaced. If the jungle can be made productive by American know ... how, grow it shall. We are determined to do all this. Only let us use the skills and knowledge available from the rnany Americans w'ho have worked in underdeveloped areas, from United Nations s}lecialists, from those gifted individuals who work for the International Bank for Reconstruction and Development, from the offices of A.l.D.; let us- hope that all these resources will be used, and let us hope further that · the over- concentration of economic aid in this single area will not cause irreparable damage in other less sensitive, and not Jess crucial places. Is India less pressing, and less deserving of our help? Have we neglected to our great peril the world beyond Vietnam? flexible and dynamic enough to contain all, or at least most of. them at the same time. Obviously we have not been able to do this. We have abandoned the rest of the world while we have gone our way in Vietnam. In Europe the NATO alliance is strung together with bailing wire. Our relations with the European Community a::te heartbreaking. We have approached this nine-member organization of over 250 million people with petulance and prescriptians. Our policies have been counterproductive, and our awareness of Europe never at so low an ebb since 1945. Nor is our position improved in other parts of the world. In our concern with Vietnam, we so boldly and arrogantly handled the crisis in Chile as to reawaken the suspicion and hostility of much Continued.on Page 2 Coffee- house On Friday, November 17, at 8:30 p.m . ., the Union College Coffeehouse . will present T oin Mitchell and Don Armstrong, with Victoria Garvey. Vickie, Tom, and Don - who are touring together after a recording session in California performed here at Union last year to an enthusiastic audience. Mitchell and Armstrong write and sing their own songs. Their easy-going, unaffected music is strong on both message and good sound. While some of their music is humorous (as \Serves' Me Right,\ Tom's parody of folk musicians from Pete Seeger to Don McLean, or \The Trojan March,\ their ode to birth control), it is balanced by serious, ballad-like numbers. One such piece is Don's \Devil River,\ the retelling of the story of the Mississippi flood of 1827. The evening's second performer, Victoria Garvey, is certain to captivate her audience with her unusually versatile voice. Vickie has performed in concert as well as on record for the past ten years. She recorded two albums with her husband, Pat, and has written songs that have become folksingers' standards. So be sure to join us at the Coffeehouse this Friday {in Old Chapel) for what promises to be a good night's entertainment (Ho! Ho! Ho!) lO cents Attention Students and Sinners: The Mountebanks production of J .B., by Archibald Maclei.;;h, opens tonight at 8 p.m. in Nott Memorial and runs through November 21. Admission is free, but you are advised to call the theater at 370-6153 and reserve tickets. The box office hours are from 1-5 and 7-9. photo by Bill Erichsen Blues At Their Best With T ai Mahal by ROBERT SHUGOLL When Taj Mahal walked on stage Friday night, all 6'4\ of his massive, distinguished black being glowing with pride, the concert was all hut over for a segment of the audience. Apparently, some of Union's typical good-time crowd just wasn't ready or maybe wasn't capable of understanding Taj's music. What it boils down to is whether or not you can get into one of the fe:w true native American art forms, the blues. Blues music isn't the kind of phenomenon that can be related with words; it's just something that has to be felt. In fact, you'd be doing both the blues and yourself a great injustice were you to listen to it with the same frame of mind you have for any other musical style. Taj Mahal's homegrown folksy- blues is a case in point. At his On Thursday, November 9, the Discipline Committee held a hearing for the purpose of trying several students involved in the attempted theft of dormitory lounge furniture. All pleaded· guilty, and the following punishments were given to each party involved disciplinary probation and 35 hours of work for the College community to be completed by the end of the Winter term. best Taj ignites in his listeners a set of emotions that is unique to good blues music. It's a feeling of the music totally penetrating your body and giving you a sense of identification with the man and his .songs. On the whole, Taj succeeded in communicating with the audience, using his low, coarse voice and skillful manipulation ·of his instruments to relate his very personal blues style. His style was relaxed, but that is not to say it was unemotional. It seems pretty clear why Taj no longer tours with a large backup band. His music is traditional - simple and mellow so it accentuates the audience's focus on how he personally makes the songs work or not work. Taj seems to like this setup, and he exerted his energies from the start toward making contact with and winning over the Chapel crowd, which was, incidentally, a sellout. This personalized relationship between performer and audience is why Taj is much more effective and enjoyable in a concert than on his records. In his performance Taj revealed his mastery of and command over the banjo, harp, guitar, piano and vocals, shifting the emphasis and beat in a manner that let us know precisely how he felt about each tune. Taj also demonstrated great compatibility between his vocals and instrumentation. I sensed that he put through his hands a feeling and effort identical to that which passed through his lips. some of the ambivalence, uncertainty, and confusion between our words and deeds. For many years now, Vietnam has overtaken and then overwhelmed every other American interest abroad. To the rest of the world we seem incapable of handling not only this one problem, but of having jettisoned every other foreign policy concern. A great power, and we are a great power, has many interests. Sumehow its policies and its actions must be tom Mitchell and Don Armstrong He played some of his notable songs like \'Going Up To The Country And Paint My Mailbox Blue,\ and \Fishin' Blues,\ along with a bunch of audience sing- along and clap-along numbers. That the concert-goers were looser and mote openly into the joint participation pieces than is usual at Union testifies to Taj's ability to fashion a warm atmosphere. It was a good concert, certainly the best that could have been expected from Taj Mahal 1 whose records are nice, easy-going products, but which contain little of the excitement created in his live appearance.

2 OPIN·ION CONCORDJENSIS, Tuesday, November 14, 1972 Union Management After Vietnam by ROBERT SHARLET Governance is giving way to management at Union. We are becoming a managed college. Techniques s·uitable to corporate board rooms are being routinely applied. Quantification untempered by evaluation is becoming the administrative norm, education is being reduced to statistics. All in the name of \rollout the business of breaking up qualitative wholes into more manageable and less meaningful parts. Now who is going to put the college back together again, restore cohesion, and reintegrate values? Who has the vision to see beyond \rollout\? In a phrase, who is providing intellectual leadership? No one. This is not an indictment of anyone because no one is there. Union is fast becoming an academic version of what Galbraith styles a \mature corporation\ managed by an impersonal \technostructure.'' Try on: \Union Corp.,\ education as product, the professor as employee. All we need is a slogan - .. Our Progress is Product.\ What's \rollout\? Succinctly, body count. The general idea is budget-balancing by increasing the students while holding faculty size constant as if teaching were an assembly line of moving bodies; by crowding the dorms as if they were 'new car lots; by comparing academic programs as if they were options on a new Buick. How does \rollout\ work? By playing disciplines off against one another to determine which will add or cut faculty as if education were a zero-sum game. By measuring departmental productivity on a piecework basis - what's your gross annual enrollment? Up (profit) or down (loss)? By calculating FTE ratio or how many student bodies per faculty-year. By forecasting the enrollment market through '75, or future body count. And where's the Union student in all this? Aggregate data, baby. . Is this anyone's idea of intellectual leadership? Robert Sharlet is an Associate Proje.<>.mr of' Political Science. Continued from Pag~ I of Latin America. The Alliance for Progress is dead, and the promise of Punta del Este long forgotten. In this writer's. calculus, one such mistake as Chile is redeemable only by years of new effort. Such costly effort will have to be made in the years after Vietnam. What of Africa? Do we have a policy? No one seems to speak to it! Since the Congo, we have been walking on tiptoe, hoping and hoping that nothing will happen. Our luck has been unusually good, but seems. right now to be running out. Throughout the Near East, the balance of peace is frighteningly insecure. There is little reason to think there can be any permanent stability in this area. We are frankly worried over the concept To the Editor: We would like to be included among those who sometimes appreciate the chance to listen to a performance. The display of inconsideration (rapidly becoming typical of U. Coil. audiences) to Spider John Koerner and Taj Mahal was annoying and frustrating - not only to us but obviously to the performers. Although billed as a second act, Spider John Koerner is a fine performer and should have been given a chance to prove it. Loud and continuous of a Near Eastern arms balance between Israel and the Arab states. Only one trigger-happy official can easily upset such a balance. Further along, we have not lost the friendship of India entirely but largely because of her maturity, rather than our diplomatic successes. Of Suharto's fndonesia and Marcos' Philippines. - all is ch;ws. Japan is quietly critical. Finally, after the loss of more than a precious decade, we have come to grips with Red China. After Vietnam Vietnam will soon be over. Who will arouse us towards a new direction in our world-wide affairs? Who wilJ promote sit-ins toward a greatly increased flow of. economic aid to underdeveloped countries? Will students march for lower Letters American tariffs? Will faculty members be as eager to talk on undramatic themes? Will there be anyone at our colleges and universities, or in our State Department, thinking and planning maturely for the long, long run? After the fighting stops, what new cause will fling us about? Peace is so uninteresting. The tou~gh technical problems draw no audiences, and few editorials. Catching a tiger by the tail is dangerous but exhilarating. What we do desperately need is a new style to our foreign and domestic life, and less moral indignation. Perhaps here and there a few individuals will preserve something of that awareness which has . been so wonderfully educational during the past few yeats. David Silberman Jude McCormick Howie. Zaleznak Betsy Shiland * * * * - To the Editor: Although the series is exCitmg and important, I am disturbed by the fact that the series \Professor as a Scholar,\ does not include a woman (or two). I am afraid this is another example of unintended sexism at Union College. Our female faculty .is as Spider John Koerner Student Committees The Committee on conversation made this Committees has released a second list of committee appointments to supplement last Spring's initial appointments. These various committees are graced by the presence of the following concerned students: Chad Luxenberg Dave Williams Honors and Fellowships Eric Markell John Perlstein Lois Brustman Sandy Wilder Dave Heilberg Bill Rosen · Howie Kritzer Student Life Val Hoffman photo by Jeff Weilburg impossible. The audience then forced Taj Mahal to work at creating the mood his type of music should normally do on its own. The people Who came only to dance in the aisles and clap during every number would have been better off staying in their rooms, tuned in to WPTR. involved in researdr-and ,teaching as the male faculty, and I'm sure woqld be as interesting and stimulating as the male faculty in this series. In addition to discussing their research and professional concerns, they would provide particularly useful insight on the specific problems of female professionals in the academic environment. Given the need for \role models\ for our women students, and given the common advice that our women often receive in terms of career counseling (e.g~ \Why don't you just get married?\) I find the exclusion of women from this series deplorable. Comp. Ed. Nancy Kessler Debbie Glasser Malcolm Donald Athletics Mike Fine Harry Garabedian CCNX)IIDI_ .... fa •• at Vnion Collqe ill lin Editor-in-Chief ............................ (;eorge Bain News Editor ................................ Tim <:ain Associate Editor ......................... Matthew Swartz Managing Edit<>rs ........................ Rita Morandi Jim Rostenherg l='caturc!; f.ditor .~ ............ ,. ............ AI Reisclt Sports Editor. .............................. Bruce Batchelder Photo Editors_ ............................. l.es Kernan Jeff ·w eilhurg Business Mana~cr .................... , ... Miehael J. Hurley National AdvL·rtising ................... Stephen KeDy Sunscriptions: .............................. Mike Bernstein E.xccul i \c Editors .................... : . .. l•eter Dickerman l.ouis S. Snitkoff Louis Barash Pat Bohen Frank DeLucia Steven Krakauer Judy Dein Marty Sherman Paul Connors Tom Conley I>on Hamerme1n Fred lucas Bob slbt Debbie Glasser CONCORDY STAFF Ray·Faugbt Bili Erichson Jim Smith Brian Lewis Stewart Abramson Robin Waring Scott Reiter Malcolm Snowden Nelson Weil larry Wharton BillY. DeBear Scott Burns Francesco Isgro Phyllis R. Edelman Gail Goodman · Robert Shugoll Mark Mindel 'Bill West Ron Aines Phil Alcabes Dave Strom Woody Lauer Doug €arpenter David Wagenknecht Andy Pearce t.\\f.\l-\rl JuJJil~ l.',,llllfll,lflllll ,lfld \.J(,',Ith)l1 f-.t..lhld., h\ Till' 'llllh.·nt hllth tll ( llh1tl ( olkg,·. :-.dwrt<'<'l.tdl. \) \.rlrnn,tl .tthc·nr'\'!! r~jll<''c'tll,lll\<'. \,,lrtrrl.rl f ullcillrnll.rl \dlt'll\\'!! \''~'' r,·c. lnL c,,lk,l!<' l'trhlr,l~<·h l{,.,,,,.,,.rtl.rlll~. '\011ron.rl iduc,rrr,,n,tl \dl~·rll,riiJ! ..,, . ., ,,., .. lrt<. \) ( ·I drlt•rr.d Ofltw. Old <i)m. hluin Cnllcgc· l'llhlr<'ollrun 0/lrn·. lh,· .ln11'1t \\,,rid l'llhli<.rlrotn'. ·-1 Stale Slrt'<'l. :-.dwncTI.rth. \' 12-'11'. 141•-2.1:'1, lnl<'r,·d 111 ·IIJL• \dwrwc·l.rdl P'\l niiK'l' a-. ~<'l:<>nd ( 'Ia\ '\l;rrl \l;rlkr \rrlhct rplr11n 211 c'L'Ilh .1 <'\P' 5S .1 ,,.,rr dclllt:rcd '\'' 1\lrc·r,· rnlhc· [ nileu '-.l,rl<'' Deadlm,· ior all L'<'P'. 11hrL'h IIHN lw IIJ't'd .111d dutrhk·'l'·''\'d. '' - p ril ••n 'vfnrtd<r) and lhuNl;J\ all he·( onrord) llilr,·c .• rht·ll·r (lid (·h.! pel Oifru· h:lcrh\n<·numher \l7CI·I•I5~. hill 11tc ''\'\' ,, ••nl.' rnuw 1111 \l,•nu.ll and lhur,tJa:- mghh hH .til t•driMt.rl lll.rll<'r'. ,,,11'111<' ,·dri<•r-rn·chrd .rl .N.l. 1640: for rnlnrllialmn <'all ~lrrd,•nl \,·11\rlt<'' Ollr«· .11- l'IJ•I>II~. Jeffrey Jaiven Judith Male Leslie Herman Robin Waring Educational Innovation Ellen Roth Nancy Eppler Development Rita Morandi Chris Nadherny Bill Rudich Pete Tavino Kim Sportman Larry Schwartz Concerts Dutch Pinkston Philip Kass Library Kathy Mitchell Tom Conley · Jeff Taylor Computer Science Becky Grant Caren Fox Robin Waring Kelvin Cook Environment William Poellmitz Jeff W eilburg Paul Connors Chris Nielsen Lynn Baker Honorary Degrees John Calender Howard Seife Standing of Students Rock Aines Jeff Alifanz Bill Sussman Judy Small Relicious Activities Joe Schwartz Paul Terry * * * * - Dave's. Mens Shop 453 State St. · (downtown Schenectady) As far as some of us are concerned, the actions of the audience detracted from what would've been one of the best concerts of the year. Carolyn Elgar Toby Goodman Barb Dewey Rita Corwin Norman V. Walbek Political Science Scholarly Professors William Fairchild and Patrick Allen photo by Les Kernan RESEARCH M~TERIALS Quality food Dinner 4-8 p.m. Reasonable Prices All Topics .. Send for your descnptive, llP·Io-date, 128cpage, mail order catalog of 2,300 quality research papers Enclose $1.00 to ctlver postage and handling. Re·dFoxlnn RESEAR(H UNLIMITED 519 GlENROCK AVE., SUITE 203 lOS ANGElES, CALIF. 90024 (213) 477·8474 .. 477-5493 \We need a locaJ salesman' Charcoal Burgers 8-Midnight Cold Sandwiches Jay Street ASK ABOUT THE \11 for lO CLUB\ FOR LIQUOR & WINE • Try JA:KE LIPSTEIN'S 464 State Street FR 4-1888 I J

faculty talk on be and State and long, fighting fling is so tough no rials. tail is rating. is a and moral and s will that so during by a this as sure and in to and the the our the reer you the this bek Pre~registration materials for winter term will be avaUable in the Office of the Registrar, Room 2, Administration Building, beginning Tuesday, November 14th. Students are urged to promptly· secure their copy of these materials. Students who do not ~plan to return to Union for the winter term, except for graduating seniors,-. should also report and give notice of their plans. * * * * Students should confer with Faculty Advisors during the five days November 15-17 and the 20th. Some qepartments may announce special arrangements for advising. Please be alert for such announcement. * * * * Course requests are due at the Office of the Registrar not later than November 22nd. * * * * There will be a meeting for -anyone interested in Idol on Wednesday, Nov. 15, at 7:00 p.m. in the Library Music Room. Anyone interested in reading, listening to, or discussing poetry and prose, scholarly material, or graphics is most welCome. * * * * This Friday at 8:30 p.m., the U. Coll. Coffeehouse presents Tom Mitchell and Don Armstrong, and Victoria Garvey. Come and' hear them in Old Chapel for the mere fee of 50¢. If you behave, we'll let you have free coffee and doughnuts. CONCORiJIENS/S, !Tuesday, November 14, 1972 3 Th.e local chap+-;:r of American Red Cross is ·.rying to set up a group of tr 5ular Friday blood donors to go to the Regional Center in Albany. AU types of blood are urgently needed. If you can be a donor., sign up with Mrs. Snowden in the Dean of ,students Office. If a sufficient\ number of regular . donors volunteer, the Red Cross will provide transportation to and from Albany. Since the interval between donations must be eight weeks, a considerable number of volunteers will be needed to furnish an adequate supply at the Center. 0 * * * * Paul Chevigny, New York Civil Liberties Union staff attorney and author of two books on police-community relations, will lecture Thursday, Nov. 16, at 8 p.m. in the auditorium of the Social Sciences building. A one-till).e Wall Street lawyer, Chevigny joined the New York Civil Liberties Union staff in f966 after a period of doing ;legal work fo.r the Congress of Racial .Equality (CORE), and running a neighborhood law office in Harlem. A specialist in criminal law and an expert on police practices, he is the author of The Uses and Abuses of Polke Power and Cops and Rebels, both published by Pantheon Books. He is a .graduate of Yale University with a law degree from Harvard. Second-story Theater presents: The Wizard of Oz (a new adaptation) Sunday, Nov. 19, at 2 p.m. in Memorial Chapel, nonstudents 50¢. * \' * * New course on The Black Community in America, Winter Semester, Wednesday evenings, 6:45 p.m.-10:15 p.m. This Winter Semester we are privileged to offer a course on the sociology of the Black Community in Ameri.ca (Sociology l40E) by a leading authority in this field, Professor George Rawick of the Department of Sociology, Washington ·University, St. Louis. This course has been submitted to the Curricular Committee for day program credit approval. Professor Rawick has given a description of the course which is included on the last page of the Course Schedule, Winter Term, 1972-73, at the Registrar's Office. · Professor Rawick is on the faculty of Washingoon University in St. Louis and is on leave this year at the Empire State College. He is the author and editor of some of the basic studies in the field of Black Communities and recognized as one of the leading scholars in this field. The prerequisites for the course are Sociology I 0 or Anthropology I I or permission of the Chairman. The course is a sociological analysis of Black Communities, and students wishing to take it without prerequisites will be asked to do preliminary reading before the course begins to acquaint themselves with the sociological perspective and sociological analysis. THE OPEN DOO~ Qya[Jty 13\o£ Store- ?1 5ocfs for aiC 'Yes ~ i56JAY STREET ~en .Mon.-Sat.+Jo:3o-s=3o Thurs. HI[ 51:00 yfi.c7u+ 3f6-Z71') Come in aruf 6rowse! The Student Life Committee would like to hear your opinion on the following: I. Student confrontation with Sheila Bea111. 2. Coed floor in North College (and/ or other dorms). 3. Renovation of lounges, by enclosing them, in Fox and Davidson. 4. Expanded library hours (i.e., Sundayfrom 10 a.m.-11 p.m.) 5. Vending machines in each dorm (i.e., candy, cigarette, soda, food, etc.) maintained by a central service. 6. Improve or replace Saga Foods. (specific suggestions desperately needed!) 7. Raised surface \bumps\ on 1 campus roads to slow down the speed of traffic. Your opinions and/ or sug- gestions will be presented to faculty and administration at our meeting Friday. See: Leslie Herman, 352 Fox., 377- 7852 AITENTION! Have a housing problem? The Ad Hoc Committee on housing will be meeting with students from the following dormitories on the following nights: Nov. 15 - 7:00 South: and all small men's housing units, Independent, in the first floor \lounge of South Nov. 15 Lounge 8:15 Fox: Fox Nov. 15 9:30 Davidson: Davidson lounge (bring your own chairs) Please try to attend! We interpreted the lack of attendance at West, North, and Richmond to mean that there are very few problems there. If you have any questions, please contact: Nina Wolff or Laura Greene at 377- 9867. Or contact Woody Lauer, 358 Davidson. * * * * Political Science: Under a new policy of last year, non-majors with Sophomore standing or Valerie Hoffman, 2 14 higher may enroll in any Richmond, 346-9848 Jerry Jaiven, Sigma Chi, 9582 upperclass Political Science 346- c0urse except seminars. Judy Male, 352 Fox., 377-7852 Robin Waring, 312 Fox, 393- 1640 * * * * * * * * The winning numbers in the Bookstore contest: 297 2821 9668 9884 Course Evaluation by PHIL ALCABES Linebacker is the name given to a booklet distributed three times a year; it is a compendium of Union College course evaluations. Jim Alberg is Editor of the student-run study. His staff secures from the Registrar's Office -initial information on courses offered, their enrollment, and which faculty members are teaching which sections. Computer card questionnaires, pre-punched for each course, are prepared. These are given out, toward the end of each term, to every faculty member. The instructor of any course section may decide whether or not he wishes his students to evaluate the course. If he does decide to have his course judged, the cards are distributed, marked by the students, and returned. Linebacker comes out with the results of the evaluations about the fifth week of the next term. · This term, the computer cards will be given to each faculty member on November 20. I.n a departure from prior years' procedure, though, each professor who chooses to have his course evaluated must appoint one student in each section to give out and collect the cards. This student will secure the completed cards in a sealed envelope, and return it to the instructor. The reasons for this change, according to Alberg, is toJI \increase student confidence in· the process.\ The professor never sees the cards which constitute his students' opinions of the course. The only other change in this fall's Linebacker will be the inclusion of an independent- · study questionnaire. Besides being an aid to students in choosing courses and professors, Linebacker is used in a further capacity as one source of information for the Advisory Committee on Faculty Salary, Promotion, and Tenure in its evaluation of faculty members. ANOTHER NEW STORE In the Proctor's Arcade 8 Track& Casette Tapes $399 Stereo Equipment Records $32 5 Arcade Tape Shop Enjoy Siulin9· Steah and Chops Visit Our CoCHait &f' -

•. f !· I· r . . .: •, ~ .... 1 ::.: .. . < _. ! '• 4 Tuesday, November 14, 1972 Panthers Wash Out Grid, Roll To 35-14 Victory by MARK W. MINDEL Defeated by an 8-0 Middlebury . squad which featured power running by backs Phil Pope and Tom O'Conner, Union College iced its second straight losing season.. The Dutchmen were trounced 35-14 Saturday, again in the rain, and even with a win over Hami·lton next week Union can do no better than 4-5. smashing over from the one. The extra point was missed and Union trailed 20-7 with 2:37 remaining in the half. The Union crowd, whose spirits were as damp· as the day's weather, came to· life on the ensuing kickoff, when Westbrook raced 84 yards down the left sideline, untouched for the score. Stan O'Brien made an eye- opening block which freed the sideline, and another Garnet path-clearer wiped out the final Panther challenge to the play a split-second later. Just 12 seconds after the Middlebury score, Union had dosed the gap to 20-14. But Union might as well not have showed up for the second half. With Pope literally running at wi.Jl, Middlebury held complete control from here on in to finish their season unbeaten . and complete their revenge on the Garnet squad which had twice ruined two good seasons in a row for the Pa-nthers. The victory celebration from .~ the large Panther visiting cheering section was reminiscent of the last 2 year's Garnet away basketball crowds. ~<'f.{.\~i&.\:·:t 4 W\;···;>. ,. ,..... ·.·,... •• ~ . ··1'1/·'f. '• ·.·:;~,: \'1 .~· ..• ·' ~~.~:/Aiti!!~ :}£t{ -~'. On a sunnier day for the Dutchmen gridders, Ron Westbrook was also running with abandon through the defenders. He scored on an 84 yard run against The crucial game of the seawn now looks !i.ke the poor loss, it:~ the ram, to a sub-par St. Lawrence SlJUad in Union'.s second game. Despite the poor record, Union played one of the toughest schedules among small colleges in the Northeast, losing close contests to top-ranked Hobart and Williams, playing well against once-beaten Alfred, and facing Middlebury. Boston. Celtics Middlebury, photo by Larry Wharton \R \ Drop Two The game Saturday was not lost until the second half when two Panther TO's, one on a Pope run and another on a pass from quarterback Pete Mackey to fullback Frank Cooper, put the game out of reach for Union. Middlebury scored the first time it had the ball, after Union turned it over to them on the JX. Union had been penalized 15 yards for reporting late to the game and were pinned deep in their own territory. Pope bolted 18 y:uds on the first Middlehury play, then two plays later drove the hall over on a thirteen yard scamper. Mackey added the kick, and the scorc..stood 7-0, with the power of the Middlebury running game established early. Union carne back midway through the first quarter. when they halted a Middlebury dri\c by recovering one of the many fumbles which marred the game, on the Garnet 33. Although three plays netted nothing, the Union punt, which was mishandled by a panic-stricken Panther, was recovered by all-purpose player Bob Mitchell on the Middlebury 19. Three plays later Ron Westbrook busted loose and slammed in from the 12. Mitchell's kick tied the score at 7 with 4:36 left in the quarter. Union handed Middlebury their next score. After fullback Stan O'Brien slammed for a first down on the Garnet 39, Union hegan marching backwards. After a sac. two procedure penalties. and an end-around. Union faced a 4th and 41 on their own 8. Punter Lou Miller got off a 43 yard punt, but Middlebury took two plays, the clincher a 41 yard pass to O'Conner. for the score. Mackey made it 14-0 with 12:43 left in the half. Union began marching on the next drive. With O'Brien and Westbrook eating up most of the yardage and a roughing the kicker penalty, followed by an exchange of fumbles, Union was in good scoring position. But three plays again got nowhere and Union punted to the Panther 20. Blind Justice The Panthers went to business sending Pope to the 44 on the first play and hitting split-end Len Bertkau on the Union 19, on the next. Bertkau and Dave Ricks wrestled the ball to the ground, but the referee, who addmitted not seeing the play, allowed the reception. Ken Grey made a dynamic interception to seemingly quell the tide, but one play later a Union fumble set up the final Panther score of the· half, Pope with Woody A year ago, we were singing the praises of the Boston Bruins, as they made their way to their second Stanley Cup in three years. But you know whc.t happened last summer: Turk, Cheese, and Pie jumped to the WHA and Steady Eddie was left unprotected in the NHL draft, along with Butch Bouchard, the B~s goalie of the future. We thought the Bruins would survive ·anyway, but Mr. Orr's knee has not responded from summer surgery. He has yet to play this year, and we fear his glorious career may be over. If that's not enough, the Adams family might sell the team -- rumors have it -- in view of its present sad shape. Where does that leave us - Boston fans in the heathen land of New York rooters'! Without a care in the world, because the Celtics Auer-bach. Yes, it's true. John Havlicek made the cover of Sports Illustrated last weekend, and the jinx has yet to strike. The C's beat the Buffalo Braves by 2 points last Friday and whomped the Detroit Pistons by 3 on Saturday to run their record to 13-1 and increase their lead over the Knickerbockers (hiss and boo) to a full game. While the Celtics may not finish the season at 81-1, they do appear to be a shoo-in for the Atlantic title, the Eastern playoff crown, and then the championship of the N BA. That may sound a bit preposterous to you, but the Celtics are playing team basketball (no one. in the top five in scoring but showing the way in rebounds and '!Ssists). Havlicek is simply the second greatest Celtic ever (behind Dr. Russell), and Paul Silas is not even starting -- he comes off the bench as the sixth man to keep the attack fresh all the time. Boston is a ruqning team, and they are on their way to the N BA title. make no mistake al>out it. Yes, indeed. once again. Weldon Haire will soon he reintroducing \The . World Champion Boston Celtics.\ * * * * And if this sounds like a puft piece to you, then you are Married Couples Part- Time Job Car~ for other people'~ children or homes while on vacation. Free room and board, work as you want. Must have car, I child 'allowance. SIOO/week. Contact 355-8395 anytime, l Regina Dr., Scheneet~dy. Tom Combs shows lay-up form that could win him a berth on the Celtics, but Tom Bacher isn't showing you his best sid~. That's Mike Doyle in back, practicing his ballet. photo by Les Kernan probably one of the too many Knickerbocker fans around here. Don't forget that the world doesn't end at the New York State border. If you do object to any overt prejudice you may have detected in this story, that's your tough luck. All I can say is that at least we probably will agree at UCol hoop games. Put aside your Knicks love and cheer for the Garnet. As yet, I have no prediction for this edition of Gary Walters' team, but he has only six losses in two years here - three each year - and that's a good tradition to uphold. See you December 2nd. :·· .. u.ggers by BUFFALO 'ihe Union College Rugby Football Club dropped two games this weekend at the Colgate Tournament, bringing their season record to 0-4. · With only one game remaining on the schedule, against Schenectady R.F.C., a winless season seems probable. The Garriet squad, which is slightly larger this year then in past years {but still a small club), has been plagued by injuries &II year. Wing Mike Sciacca and serum half Jono Walker were lost early in the year to knee injuries. These injuries proved to be a serious blow to the Garnet offense, as the team was counting on a good year from both Walker and Sciacca. There has also been a concussion, a bruised kidney and a broken finger, all to key players. In the first game Saturday, against the Colgate \B\ team, the Dutchmen played quite well considering the conditions. With Ted Blandy scoring the only Union try (the extra point was missed), the inexperienced team lost 12-4. The Garnet fared much better in the second game against the Colgate \A\ team, although the score, 14-3, would not indicate this. The only Union score· came on a Steve Pohl penalty kick. The Colgate \A\ team is a large, experienced team, with an excellent line and hooker. Holding them to only 14 points is quite a tribute to the Union team. The only bright spot on an otherwise dismal day was the play of the Garnet second row, consisting of Doug Warner and Ira Nathanson, who replaced the absent Buff. The other team in the three team tournament was Cortland, who tied the Colgat~ \A\ squad 4-4 .. As usual, the rainy weather and the two hard gaml!s played by all teams produced some thirst of Herculean proportions. These thirsts were adequately quenched at the party following the game. The last Union game will be played this Saturday, against the \other\ Schenectady team, Schenectady R.F.C. 1f some goal posts can be found, the ~arne will be at Union. BOULEVARD BOWL 1315 Erie Blvd. 40 AMF BOWLING LANES 374-4171 Bowl for Health Now open 7 days/ week Levrs The Brothers III d \U 4 \ un er n1on manag~ment I MEALS -II a.m.-12 Midnight] Assorted Variety Of Hot & Cold Sandwiches At Colle_ge Prices 1679 Van Vranken Ave. 374-5679 2bloeksup EXCELLENT DARK BEER ON TAP Dave's. Mens Shop f 453 State St. (downtown ~ch~nectady) 1 ,--------, f Qiaualitr's t ,. t t l st \fJet:ia lillng t f Prr·z·e· in hot ongs t \\it h heq 'hot : Hot Dogs \\'\ ; \ t \\ n I ,. Sen·ing Breakfast. f f l.unch & Dinner t f Open 7 da)'s a week f t t t !\1on.- Thurs. 6·1 a.m. i Fri. & Sat. 6-4 a.m. ' f Sunday 9-1 a.m. f . t . Erie Blvd., Sch'dy a --------'

nst ike to he of at he j t • • • t t t t t t t . founded at Union College in 1877 vot.tOl, No.17 Tom Hord, w_ho portrays thi?' title role in J. B., now playmg at the Nott Memorial Theatre. ph:oto by Bill Eri,chson \Impressive Performance\: J .. B:. Opens by DARBY SIEGEL The Mountebanks; first major prod:uctio n of the year,, Archibald MacLeish's J.B. is a movi~g, often terrifying, and co ntm uai ly impressive performance. J.B., under the direction of Barry Smith, is set within a circus tent. The audience of thls modem-day story of Job becomes part of the performance as the;Jent walls which surround them are those . which also surround the . a~tors. The play opens to electnfymg circus music and an intricate dance. The clowns seem as marionettes who like J.B., are manipulated fro~ above. The clowns' drcus, though . beautiful, is strangely sad. The performers seem to mimic t}l.eir genuine human suffering. Upon the. breaking of ·a balloon a wmd draws the clowns into the mouth . of the circus wagon. The stage is set for . the entrance of tQ.ejanitors, Zuss and Nickles (Lee Bloomrosen and Elf Foxman), who play the parts of (}od and Satan. The universality of Job's suffering is indicated by Zuss' remark: \Oh there's always someone playing Job.\ Indeed, someone Cloes come to play Job, a prominent, self-assured businessma.n, J .B. Never doubting the justice of God, J.a., excellently portrayed by Tom Hord, believes his life to be proof o~ the Creator's justice. J.B.'s w1fe.. S~rall. (Becky Anderson), wornes, am1d the opulence of a Thanksgiving feast, that J.B. ·has placed too much faith in his luck. All . the while, Zuss and Nickles - watch from above. Nickles is certain that J.B. will curse God once his earthly pleasures have been. taken away but Zuss . . , ~cce:ptmg the challenge, .replies it Is from the \ash-heap that God is seen.'' The first tragedy, the death of their oldest son, David, is related by pathetic products o£ war,· two , drunken ~ol.diers. The harbingers ?f death tntlate the tragedy which 1s to follow at a rapid pace. As the c.offin is brought on voices wailing, moaning, cry ~ death song of Pavid's name and the audience is brought into the suffering. J.B.'s life has begun to fall apart. The disasters which f 0 llow d~ not cause-J ,B. to curse ,,. Friday, November 17, 1972 20 cents · History Profs Denied Tenure by TIM CAIN ~he student members were not mformed .of the meeting of the Committee and were, in .effect, excluded' from the decisian- making process. Potts and Berk feel that this is an important Issue deserving full consideration. . Enteman, however, said that the regulations cleatly limit the participation of students and junior faculty members to questions of policy only. The· regulations, Enteman said, exclude students and junior faculty members from the review of individual cases. On this point, Professor Berk and Professor Potts suggested that a regulation such as this is counterproductive .and of questionable value because it does not insure fuli and complete examination of each case. President Harold C Martin photo by Charlie Wells Martin Meets With Students response to student activities. He said that the faculty feels threatened by the student movement, and have consequently increased their demand for influence. Student opinions . are 'volatile' and vary from class to class. According to the president , this must be taken into consideration wh~n discussing long-range proJects. One example of this is the new student center. Students' opinions have changed from supporting the center, to claiming that it is just a waste of money. (The center is scheduled to open this Spring.) The students at the discussion aske~ · several questions, one deahng with the plans for the graduate program ai Union. The program has caused an increase in night courses, and students object on the grounds that it takes .away from the undergraduate program. President Martin feels that the · jgraduate program may attract more qualified teachers since th.ey are offered the opportunity of teaching graduate classes. However, he claims that the pla.n~ f~r the pro~am is just to sohd1fy 1t, not expand it. When asked ~ about the shortage of housing. President Martin said that the Board voted not_to increase the student body until housing facilities are increased. Among programs being discussed are the American Studies program, the continuation of the Hebrew ~ontinued on Page 3

/ 2 CO!VCORDIENSJS, Friday, November 17. 1972 The Buyer Must Beware~ Canvassing At Bachelor's Hall ... b:y SHARON FALKENHEIMER The Public Interest Research Group (P.l.R.G.) hosted a lecture-discussion with Peter Pryor, Chairman of the Consumer Protection Board of New York State on Tuesday evening in the Hale House opinion, the buyer is entitled to more than the right to buy or not to buy. The consumer should have the right to have more information on products 'he is buying, greater protection from industry and government, and a greater role in determining what products are put on the market. by PUlL MUELLER Student Lounge. __ Mt~ Pryor opened his tal.k ·b_y noting that people are always asking what the government is doing to protect the consumer when they need to become actively i,nvolved themselves. ~e emphasized that unless agencie~ like the Consu~er Protec~ion Board are made aware of the deceptions and illegal actions being perpetrated in tht community, they cannot act as effective protectors of the rights of the consumer. He defined consumerism as a movement to augment the rights ·of the buyer as opposed to the rights of the seller. In his Mr. Pryor reported that the State Consumer Protection Board has emphasized consumer · legislation and is now drawing up and submitting consumer oriented bills to the State Legislature. This effort has been· nullified by the reluctance on the part of the last two legislatures to pass such bills. Even Congress has passed few consumer- oriented bills. ·This calls for concerted effort not only by consumer groups but by all consumers to inform their· representatives of their views on . consumer affairs. should take the form of not only teaching consumers how and \Vhat to buy, but also teaching the businessman that, although the consumer means business, consumerism is not something to be feared: consumerism can be good for business. Such education should also include educating the consumers'· representatives in government to make them responsive to consumer problems and arousing the consumer to see his role as an important one in which he must be continually informed and concerned. Pryor also remarked that fraud is easily perpetrated in are~s · where no consumer groups exist and added that the consumer can also be \legitimately rooked\ by such conveniences as revolving charge accounts which charge 12 to l8% interest on one's previous balance. u this conveys to you even a sure.Qf m~self to be chased away fraction of the meaning that th~ _ by anythmg .so vague as . an ex·perience itself held · for me, · atmosphere, howe\(er depressmg. then it was. worth writing. If this I wandered thr.ough the first two unidentifiable feeling does pot floor:;. kno~kmg on doots, come . through, then I apologi:z:e stoppmg bne~y to . ask.. the for wasting your time. Though it standard que~tlons an<! make . a was written with no ''moral\ or pat pro-McGovern.. argument central theme in mind, if anyone here . a~d there when someone should discover one, I would would hsten. .. appreciate hearing about it. . I knocked on one third ~oor It began as I left the campus door and was told to come m. I on Saturday afternoon . before e~tered a room l~ss titan ~alf the Election Day, feeling just a little stze of my r~om ~~l West, •ts :four self-righteous because I was hare wall~ dlummated onl,Y by braving the rain to champion a t~e. overcast sky. A man was lost cause while my friends s1ttmg on, the bed and. another huddled together with their wine slouched m the only cha1r, W~en and watched the football game. I mentioned that . I was worktng The cau~e had gone out of the for. McGove~ 1 the ~n on th~ campaign though, and now I bed answered Fuck McGovern, would take iny . McGovem and they both laugh~?· . ?\ . . propaganda door-to-door only to When I a~ked W~y. , . the get material for my poly sci term m~n. on the be~ explam~d. that paper. · VI~t~m w~s. h'~e . smo,kmg or Pryor also stressed the need for consumer ·education; This fGC if Ill at V .. Ctlllele fa 1177 . · . · Ch. · f . . . c;eor 8 e Rain Ednor-an.. . ae ~ ..................... ,..... '\ News Editor ................................ Tim Cain . • te .., .a't · · Matthew Swartz AssOCia .&JUI o.r ........... o•••••••• ••••• ' • - • Managing Editors ........................ Rata Morand• . Jhn Rostenberg • L' • F. ..a· 1 · . AJ Reisch· -.-caturcs ··\• or-.~.......................... ·ad S · · · E. dit Bruce Bah:he er ports or............................... · t»hoto Editors ............................... l.es Kernan Jeff W eilburg . Business M••na~rcr ..... , .......... ~ ... ;~.:;Midaael J. Hurley National Advertising ......... · .......... Stepben Kenr · · -· · b · · · Mike BetmtaA · · Su scnpuons .... ~ ......................... . 1 .. · · . 1· .t· 1 . - l•eter Bickerm:an :xccutl\4;. ·-u! urs ......................... · . . ..•. Louis Barash Pat Bohen Fra~k DeLucia Steven Kra'kauer Judy Dein Marty Sherman Paul Connors Tom Conley Don Hamerman Fred lucas Bob sdllo Debbie Glasser: l.ouis S. Snstkoft\ CONCORDY STAFF Ray Faught BiB Erichson Jim Smiab . Brian Lewis Stewart Abramson · Robin Waring ~tt Reiter Malcolm Snowden Nelson-Wei! Larry Wtuuton Billy Delbr Scott Bums Francesco .Isgro PhyU~ R. Ede~n <Jail QQOdman Rohen-$\ugoll Mart Mindel Sill West RonAines Phil Alcabes Dave Strom Woody Lauer Doug Qarpenter David w.nknecht Andy Pearce An Endless w·ait? In the aftermath of last week's election most of those who supported Senator McGovern seem inclined to forget about the whole affair as quickly as possible, in the same manne~ one would treat a bad dream. This is an entirely natura~ reaction but a potentially dangerous one, for reality cannot be, erased by willing it otherwise. : A majority of the electorate has given Richard Nixon fou~ more years, yet the issues raised during tJ;lis campaign will remain very much alive. In historical retrospect, 1972 may b~ viewed as a watershed election year when the political proces~ broadened to ~nclude millions ~f additional participants. Th~ potential of th1s force of comm1tted volunteers to res~ape thq political system will be realized only if. they ~an w1thstan~ adversity, rather than succumb to the mcreasmgly popular cynicism which tends to paralyze those of good intentions. Arnid the landslide debris, one must take comfort from the unprecedented degree of t~cket-sp~itting, i~~ica~ing that t~d swing to the Right is not 1rrevers1ble. Politics 1~ a dynam1~ process of coalition building, and as such, 1t can ta~t1 surprisingly rapid turns. One thing is certain, however: thos~ of us on the Left of the spectrum cannot wait for others to do the necessary groundwork; in that case the wait would bd endless. .. .... P.IJ ( 4 on~ordlensis I' plfhli,h,•d <'lt:rl lu,•,da~ and I rida1 t!urint! lh<' 't:h<>1>i ~~·ar c~<:cpt dunn!! l'\,111111Hll1011 and \<IL'atillll Jlci'IOU' n) tlw 'tlldL·nt hod\ \'·I 1111111 Colle!!<'. Scheneetad~. \ \. \ut1onal ad1 erthlll!! r,·pr-<''<'ntalih': '\atwnal r dumtlollal \dlt:rtr-ifl!! Sen ICC. Inc, Colll')!L' l'uhli'lll'l' R,•prc,enWtl\l'· \atu>mal ldueational Ad \Crt i'lll!! Sen ll\<'. Inc \.\.C. I d1h111.d 0111<:<'- Old (i\01. l'n1on Cnlle)!c. l'uhlieatiun <+f(il'l'. I h,· .k11 ''h \\Mid l'uhli~atwn,, 771 St<ll<' Str,•et. Sc:hcneetad). \.Y 12307 .. l4h-.:!J5o lnkrc•rJ Ill thL' Scll<'ll<'<'lad~ pt~st nll1cc a' Sccnnd Clas> Mail Matt.:r.Suhscnptlnn 20 cent~ a cnp~.$X a ~··ar ddnercd anw.hcrc m the llmtcd Stak,. D~adllnc ior all copy. \\ hich lllll>t he t~ r•·d and dt>uhk-,pa,·.·d. 1~ 7 p.m. 1111 Monda\ and l\hursduv at the ('oncord~ ulti,·e. a hull' Old Chapel. Offic~ telephone nu;..,ocr i.' J7().(\ 155. hlll th<' nffii:L' ;, mll~ 1il \\' ''.\ \l1111da} and l'hursday nights. hn ull editurial m;mcn. <:1111 the cdllnr·IIH:hll'l at 3Q.~- 1640; for information call Student Acti\ltics Oil icc at J70·f>l Ut Pryor asserted that what is needed are consumers who know what is going on at the government level, in other consumer groups, in their own .communities and who are active in consumer affair's. He a:lso noted that a State Director of · Consumer Education will be appointed in the near future. I was relieved to find that 16 of dnnkmg, a bad situation,. but the 30 persons I was supposed to you ·~ust can't quit cold t~rkey.'' canvass lived at the same He ~dded that he was s~c~ . of address, 618 Chapel St., about a hearmg.. McGov~rn c~Ihc1ze block past the Holiday Inn. A , everything. that NtX:on did. He short walk brought me to thought_N1xon had done a pret~y • Upon completion .of his presentation, Mr. Pryor requested that P.I.R.G.'s leaders brief him on their gr9up and how the Consumer Protection Board can assist them. P.I.R,.G. reported that they have been working to establish consumer education courses at all academic levels from elementary and secondary school up to college. The group also wants to do work for the Consumer Protection Board. Mr. Pryor suggested that this would be helpful and could take the form of keeping his office informed of what is happening in Schenectady fls well as policing area businesses by checking out such assertions as \no charge for credit.'' On the subject of· c-on- sumer publications, Pryor recommended Consumer Report as trustworthy and ·objective in its testing. He also indicated that the Good Housekeeping Seal of Approval is less than reliable. · - Continued on Page 1 . • • • .. !It Le-tters To the Editor: We would like to take this opportunity to strongly protest the ·refusal of the Committee on Salaries, Promotions, and Tenure to grant tenure to Professors Potts and Berk .. This refusal was largely based on the rtow unofficial 60% tenure rule, which takes little account of teaching- ability or research productivity, but merely discriminates against younger faculty, The ruling was ~ilso justified ·15y the claim that changing student tastes now, or, in the futureJ will require new faculty. No matter what changes take place, however, it will still be necessary to employ American and Russian history teachers, as evidenced by the constantly high enrollments and interest in both fields. What makes this. rufing so hard to take, however, is that each teacher is highly respected and liked by the students, who are directly affected by such a decision yet have had no say whatsoever in the matter. Furthermore, the History Department itself recommended each teacher for tenure. Nevertheless, · the Committee decided to deny tenure on the basis of arbitrary limitatiOiiS, inaCQurate perceptions of student preferences, and misguided • \Bachelo.rs. Hall,\ a dimly lit, good Job, and I couldn .t dilapidatt~d old apartment house, unders~and. how he . could .. s1t custom-made for men of all ages there m his 12 .d~llar ~ .. week who were alone, down on their room and be satisfied w1th the luck, and couldn't afford better. past four years. . As my eyes adjusted to the lack Our thr~e way . ~o:!lversation of light I read a memo, taped to bega~ With pohttcs and the wall, forbidding the tenants oc~slOnaJly .returned. to . the to use large electrical appliances s.ubject; but m the mtervals I because the building's wiring had hs~ened to .a story unfold that. I been.declared unsafe. used .to thmk ·only happened m I looked down two long rows day hme soap-operas. . of closed doors that faced each The man. on the bed (I learned other, separated by a hallway later that h1s name was. Alex) was little wider than my shoulders. L 48 years old, ?qt I WQ~l~e qave stood silently for several rninutes gue~sed ?O. ~~s ~ace an4 ~rms in this very tangible atmosphere looked l~e. skm. str~tc~ed . ~v~r of hopelessness, , fighting the bone. He said that h~ d fought m impulse to leave lost the fight World War II and· had been and, left. By the'·time l reached woun~ea' three !imes. N~w Alex the end of· the street, my was diVorced, ~Ith four sort\ and pragmatic instincts had won out a daughter. Hts 17. year old. son and, realizing that I needed h~d been arr~sted m New York material for my paper, I retraced City for pushi~g dope, but Alex my steps back to Bachelors Hall. had gotten him off the hook Besides, I was just a little too ·Continutad on, Pag_e 1 ........ ~-· .. evaluations of m-onetary effort of these · scholars -are priorities. unimpeachable;,.· befitting (even This decision · c·an only .surpassing) College standards .. diminish the stature_ of the Why, then, are- Potts and Berk College. The administration can told that there is· no place for attempt to find replacements as them? The artswer, essentially; is good but they will definitely not that the present system • for find anyone better, and the odds granting tenure is based· not on a are great that they will find rational· appraisal af academic someone who is worse. .merit but. -rather on p:umerical For the sake of the entire proportions. While all- the college community, we feel this ramifications o:f this p\olicy matter should be reopened. cannot be ·discussed here, it is Larry Swartz '73 · apparent that according to the Marty Berman '74 administration's perverted rules Jerry Macher '73 .of '!management;'' one Ph.D. is Guy Saeerdoti '73 as good as another Ph.D~ Rickie Aroll$ '73 At this small institution, our Judy McCormick '74 major ·attraction to applicants Helen BiJiak '75 must involve the prospect· of Les Kritzer '73 close contact between faculty and Lucie Kennedy '75 students. Professors Berk and Amy Reich '76 Potts ·have both devoted ·mu€h ·Of Howard Seife '73 their 'time .to the goal of helping . * * * * To the Edite>r: The tenure issue at Union has become a matter of great theoretic::al concern during the pa~t year, but now the implications of this absurd situation are finally hitting home - two unquestionably qualified men are being denied the right to continue their careers here. We, the student representatives of the History Department, are appalled by the administrative refusal to even consider for tenure Professors Stephen Berk and David Potts. All those who have ever taken their courses must be aware that the academic credentials ~n..t \nn!!dentioils .. students, of personalizing and humanizing education. The \revolving door\ syndrome, which would be an inevitable consequence of continued tenure prohibition, would se:rve to largely destroy whatever sense of academic community really exists. Angry words alone usually have little effect. We are asking those directly concerned, the students, to petition the .administration for a full hearing on the matter. This sham of a system cannot be allowed to ·continue unchallenged, treating people as statistics, We owe it to ourselves and the future of Union to act. Rock Aines '73 Peter Dickerman '73 Marty Sherman '14

a nt 11e tg te \ te lt If It \ >f :e . e .y 't it k e n d e I I n . ,. .. .. ~ CONCORDIENSIS, Fridar, November 17 1 1972 Some Facts And Figures For Understanding The Endowment by Stephen Kronish $120;000. The book and market Union's building program. (More Union College is an value for that transaction is now on the uses of the fund will educational institution. As th~, .. $120,000, and the cycle begins a!l . follow shortly.) Third, the huge history buffs are quick to point over again. capital gains repdtted in 1968, out, Union is the nineteenth Dale F. Timberlai.se, the 1969 and 1970 were caused oldest college in the United Treasurer of Union College, primarily by the sale of very old States, and the second oldest in likened a view of tbe fund at any securities held by the College the State of New York. B.ut given time to that of a since as far back as the 1940's. Union College is also a financial \snapshot as opposed to a Twenty-five to thirty years of institution. The total picture of \motion picture,\ because the growth thus account for the its financial complexities book and market values change inflated capital gains in t-hose certainly cannot be painted he;re, virtually every day, though fiscal years. if in fact it can be painted in its fluctuations in the market, and Where does the .income from totality anywhere. We will actual transactions made by the the endowment principle go? attempt, however, in this article, Board. While drastic changes in That question is one of the least to expose the student body to market value may not take place complicated we have to deal some of the more interesting daily, economic conditions in the with, as expenditures of the .aspects of one financial \sub~ countty can alter the value endowment income are a matter institution\ at the College: the remarkably over a period of just of public record. The breakdown Endowme.nt Program. a few years. For example, the is given in Table 2. Although \endowment\ is one market value of the securities in of the more well-used words in. the endowment fund as of June the Union College community,· 30, 1970 (when the stock market perhaps a definition is in order at was ·in the process of one 0f its by Mr. X on bis gift, Union thus begins to develop an endowme11t balance in that departm~nt, even thol!gh the genera,l fund may not be sufficient. to complete other worthwhile programs. If Speedunk closes its doors forever, Union will have to obtain a court order, allowing it to use the income for a similar purpose. Union probably would be unable to use that income to send students to Speedunk Medical School·, but probably could use it to aid students going to a differen.t school of Ia\. As of June 30; 1972, the · College had borrowed some $7.600,000 against the endowment fund for building pUrposes (the science center. fox and Davidson. renovations of Richmond and North. etc.). Anyone would readily admit that $7,600.000 is a lot of money. The College certainly agrees. It is paying itself back at an interest the very outset of this article. For worst recent slumps) was our purposes, we may define an $19,679,000; as of June 30, 1972, \endowiJ1ent\ as a fund, the market value ·was comprised of capital from gifts or $23;957,751. There was no other sources, which has as its significant increase in the r(Jison d' etre the provision of principle over that period of time. income through the intelligent Now that the \book\ and investment of the principle. In \market'' values have been theory, therefore; the larger the explained, we will now get down investment principle, the greater to the \nitty-gritty\- the figures the income that can accrue from that you all probably had in it. We say \in theory\ because, mind when you began this depending upon the disposition article .. They will take on greater of the stock market in general, meaning later, but, just to get and Union's investments in them out into the open, they are particular, the larger the fund being presented at this time. As TABLE 2: :;t.:a.te2ory of Expenditure lnr,PQ~ri .. ·tpn funds Pr(J~fes!iorsbip funds .. f:~@fBuildling & Grounds funds for 1972m1973 $603,000 117,000 9,600 ·invested, the more significant the of June 30, 1972, the Union ~:~Ba1iley Special funds 1971-1972 $600,155 117,365 6,897 5,375 14,802 27,786 21,404 95,000 losses can be as well. College endowment fund , ............ <>. Fine Arts funds 1,261 \Control\ and \responsibility\ consisted of the following assets: · are two more words that Securities: frequently appear in the (Book value) ........ $23,231,237 conversations of Union students (Market value)., ... $23,951,751 $890,045' and in the columns of this paper, In Cash and Funds when the administration of the Due from Brokerage Firms: College is disc(.Jssed. In the case $1,634,048 of t~(( fiindo'Yment program, the · q.ue's'tion · oJ · control and responsibility poses no real problems for us. The lloard of Trustees of Union College has virtually complete contrel of all aspects of ·the fund (except, of course, the gifts that are donated to it). Prior to 1967, the Board did its own investing, as several members were bank trust officers attd/ or financiers by profession. In 1967, the account was given to · an · investment firm in Boston. Since the association was not a fruitful one, ·we have not been able to ascertain the name of the firm, but that is· really not a crucial point in our discussion. After that unsuccessful episode, the Board decided to split the account in half, giving one-half to the firm of Smith Barney, and the other half to Kidder-Peabody, both of which have their main offices in New York City. The theory behind the account-splitting was this: the Board believed that the College might benefit if one firm was a. bit more aggr:essive in its inves~ment philosophy, while· the other. pursued a more conservative, growth-oriented approach. Thus, the possibility of high returns was improved, while the probability of loss did not increase proportionally. When the endowment program and its a,.ssets are examined, it becomes evident that there is an important difference between the \book\ value of the securities involved, and their \market\ value. Probably the easiest way to explain that difference would be to provide the following hypothetical case: Suppose Mr. X donates a sum of $100,000 to the Union College endowment fund. The \book\ or \original\ value of the gift is $100,000. Union College then purchases securities with that capital- securities that grow over time to a value of $120,000. The \market\ value of the $lOG,OOO. gift is now $120,000 The Board then decides to cash in the securities and to purchase different securities for the Total:· · .,,. (Book value, plus cash): $24,865,285 (Market value, plus cash}; $25,591,799 Note that this is only a \snapshot\ view, and that the exact figures may change on any given day. The overall picture is accurate, however, for this approximate point in time. The following table (composed with statistics provided by Mr. Timberlake) shows some of the more significant figures with respect to earnings of the fund, and how they . r~late to the growing student population at · the College. As can be seen from the table · rate of 5%, which returns to the 2 figures, the funds are certainly fund as income. This high allocated and disbursed as interest tate makes up for. the quickly as they .are received. fact that capital tied up in ''bricl<. Operating expenses are paid, in and mortar\ investm,ent does not part, out of the \unrestricted\ have to have the appreciation category listed at the top of the possibilities of securities table. All of the unrestricted investment. Thus, the scholarship capital, though spent · for and other programs taken from different purposes, is pooled the income of the fund do not tqgether into one aggregate sum. suffer because of the absence of the other funds listed in the the $7,600,000 which migbt table are of a restricted nature. otherwise be earning income Due to the restrictions placed through i~vestment in securities. on portions of the fund, only Accordmg to th~ Report of the 80% of the income gained . Treasu~er for the f!~cal year 1.970-- through investment can be used 71, Umo~ C?lleg~ Is face~ With a to cover the costs of operating 2% deficit SituatiOO. ~hJs places the Board of Trustees m !\rather TABLE 1: (% Earnings) unenviable situation. They must try to balance their desire to rid the College of that deficit through a more speculative investment policy, with their obligation as trustees to guard the endowment fund against losses through exactly such speculative policies. Year 1972 1971 1970 1969 1968 1967 year-end market value 4.4 3.9 4.6 3.5 3.4 3.7 Capit.al Gains Student Population 1739 1678 1576 1476 1413 1329 $759,000 -697,000 2,023,000 3,851,000 3,898,000 1,102,000 At first glance, there seem to be some remarkable inconsis- tencies in the figures of Table I There are, however, plausible reasons for them. First, the 4.6% rate of return in 1970 was caused by a stock market that was at a record low at the end of that year, but where earnings did not decline proportionally. Thus, the figures show an unusually high percentage· gain in the midst of a more gradual incline. Second, the capital loss in 1971 was based on two factors. The first was the incredibly bad stock market, and the second was the urgent demand for funds at the height of the College. The restrictions are many and varied. Once again let us use a hypothetical case as illustration: The charitable Mr. X has given another $100,000 · to Union's endowment fund. He said, however, that Union may use the income from his gift, only to aid Union graduates who are going on to attend Speedunk Law School. Speedunk, once a bastion of legal education, has experienced a period of qualitative decline. Therefore, Union l. is not sending many graduates on to Speedunk. Because of the restriction placed Mr. timberlake reported that in 1966, the Board gave the \nameless\ Boston investment firm a sum of $2,000,000, and told the firm, in so many words, to .. play amund with it,\ in an attempt to accrue some sizable, swift returns. Mr. Timberlake said that these teturns were not forthcoming, and that the Board has not attempted a similar venture since. It is Mr. Timberlake's belief, however. th'at if the College meets its budget requirements for this fiscal year and perhaps the next (and he feels that the chances are good for this goal to be achieved), the Board very well might attempt another plan for rapid capital gains. While the Board has not made the type of overt gesture for swift capital gains since 1966, Timberlake reported that the Board has undergone a subtle alteration in its investment . philosophy. While one certainly could not describe that philosophy as in any ·way \reckless the Board seems to be beginning a program of 3 investment in securities that tend to yield a higher dividend rate (usually up to 1%) than that of a program in which the endowment fund is tied up in stocks yielding returns as low as l% (such as IBM, for example). One important statistic that has not been discussed is the \endowment per student\ ratio. This has, quite naturally, gone plummeting down as the student population increased witltout a proportion(}! inctease in the rate of return on the investments. An approximation of this per capita rate of decline can be estimated from the figures in Table I. Mr. Timberlake has no real solution to this problem, and owing to the present philosophy of investment. there really can be no solution. He said that ·even if the population at Union was held static. the cost of operating the College would still far outstrip the rate of returns received. He seemed to indicate that the only short-range solution would be another venture of the type attempted in 1966. Hop'efully the results would be more satisfactory than they were six years ago. Apparently a long-range solution would be to completely alter the investment strategy of the Board, to one of a more speculative approach. While this may appear to be a sound policy . our initial satisfaction wit'h it must be tempered by the fact that, as the possibility of improving capital gains through speculative investing is maximized, so is the probability of incurring capital losses as well. This article has attempted to explain, albeit superficially, some of the aspects of the endowment program with which every student at Union College should be familiar. To complain about the yearly tuition increases is one thing. To know something about the financial considerations involved and perhaps to suggest improvements is quite another. The pertinent information is available for everyone to examine. We would strongly urge those people interested in the financial condition of Union College, which in turn directly affects everyone's individual financial condition, to acquaint themselves with the factors that comprise the overall economic picture of this institution. . ..... Martin l'ontinm:d .from Pag.e I program and the elimination of the Comp. Ed. requirements. A permanent faculty advisor for the American Studies program is being considered. Concerning the Hebrew program, President Martin feels that if Union can't offer an extensive program comparable to the already existing language programs. It should not offer any Hebrew at all. This problem is still being discussed by the CAC. The elimination of Comp Ed was also discussed. President Martin feels that broad programs are necessary. He conceded that for the most part Freshmen Comp Ed.'s , especially science oriented ones, have failed, as they have been taught as strictly science courses. Tenure was an issue in which student and faculty arguments have influenced the Board's decision. The question that still remains , however. is that if someone is up for tenure. does he have the right to go in front of the committee. Students' evaluations of the faculty, found in Linebacker, are used to help decide if someone should be recommended for tenure. What are the implications of the new governance system? Decisions once made by the president are now made by the CAC. An Increase in student involvement has also occurred. and it is up to the students to prevent their influence from also \dying a quiet death.\

4 .FINA'L EXAMINATION SCHEDULE FALL TERM, 1972 Examin!l.tions wilt be held in the assigned rooms. Listed below is the code of the buildings to be used. BH - Bailey Hall BU- Butterfield Ha_ll HU - Humanities Building, PY - Psychology Laboratory NW - Science-.Engineering Center (North Wing) SS ...... Social Sciences Building SH - Steinmetz Hall MONDAY, DECEMBER 4 9:00·11 :00 A.M. Comp. Ed. 10 (Freshman Commons in Humanities and Social Sciences) Topic 1 - (The Role of Economics in SoCiety) - SS 113- Prof. Herman · Comp. Ed. l1 (Freshman Commons in Science and Engineering) Topic 6- (Weather and Climate) - BH 207- Prof. D. Stone Greek 10 (Principles of Greek) - HU 110 - Prof. Reece E.:onomics 10 (Elementary Economics, Part I) Sec. 4- SS 113 ~Prof. Herman Economics 132 (Labor and Industrial Relations) - SS 115 ~ Prof. Prosper History 14 (Emergency of Modern America) - SS 117- Prof. Jonas Frenc~ 131 (A General View of French Literature I) - HU 111- Prof. Rob tts German 130 (Readings in Modern German Literature)- HU ll7- Prof. Klemm Spanish 130 (Readings in Contemporary Spanish and Spanish American Literat11re) - HU 014- Mrs. Astiz \ Spanish 133 (The Spanish Lan~ge in Practical Usel) ...::... HU 016- Mrs. Vinick Political Science 20 (Political Data Analysis) _:_ SS 012- Prof. Hartwig Biology 32 (Biology of the Vertebrates)-'- SS 016- Prof. Butterstein Biology 153 (Advanced Ecology)~ BH 201 -Prof, Tobiessen Chemistry 148 (Principles of Radiation Technology) - NW 222 ~ Prof .. Weick Mathematics 101 (Advanced Calculus for Engineers) - BH 205- Prof. W. Stone Physics 13 (Introductory Physics II) (for Biology, Science and Center I students) ~ SH 110 - Prof. Swartz Physics 15 (Principles of Modern Physics I) ~ NW 116 ~Prof. Goble Psychology 10 (A First Course in Psychology) Sec. 3- PY 213- Prof. Girdner Psychology 24 (Social Psychology) - PY 102 Prof. Newman Psychology 38 (Child Psychology) - PY 113 Prof. N. H. Walbek E.S. 30 (Mechanics of Deformable Solids) - BU 109 ~Mr. Pikul C.E. 45 (Environmental pollution and Conservation of Resources) - BU 204 ~ Mr. Carlson MONDAY, DECEMBER 4 2:00·4:00 P.M. English 123 (The Modern American Novel) - HU 114- Prof. Gado History 65 (Problems of Political and Econom~c Development in Modern Latin America) - SS 010 - Prof. Bristol German 141 (Enlightenment and the 18th Century Classicism}- HU ll6- Prof. Warde Geology 120 (Recent Sedimentary Environments) - B U 109 - Prof. Zimmerman Physics 140 (Introductory Quantum Mechanics) - NW 116- Prof. Jones Psychology 10 (A First Course in Psychology) Sec. 2- SS 016- Prof. N~wman Sec. 5 - SS 016 - Prof. Newman Psychology 30 (Theory of Personality)~ BU 204 - Prof. Graves Psychology 44 (Experimental Psychology I) ~ PY 102 - Prof. Huntley E.S. 10 (Systems, Computers and Design) Sec. 1 - SS 112 ~ Prof. Driscoll Sec. 2 - BH 207 ~ Prof. Craig Sec. 3 ~ BH 201- Prof. Eisenstadt Sec. 4 ~ SH 110- Prof. Aubrey C.S. 130 (Assembly Language Programming) ~ BH 201 - Prof. Craig CONCORDIENSJS, Friday, Nov(!.mber 17, 1972 .. - - - \. After Tuesday's record snow fall for early November, it will be a long time before you see this scene again. Button up your heavy overcoat and bet whether 100 inches of snow will fall or whether it will drop to 25 degrees below zero this winter. photo by Les Kernan TUESDAY, DECEMBER 5 9:00all:OO A.M. Comp. Ed. 10 (Freshman Commons in Humanities and Social Sciences) topic 4- (Economists and Society)- SS 010- Prof. Finkelstein Comp. Ed. 11 (Freshman Commons in Science and Engineering) · Topic 7 - Sec. 4 (Intro.. to Computer Programming) - BH 2() I \- Prof. Ingvarsson Comp. Ed. 11 (Freshman Commons in Science and Engineering) Topic 5 - (Symmetry in Nature) ~ BH 106 - Prof. Lewis Comp. Ed. 24 (The Literature of the Bible) - SS 113 -Prof. Fox Comp. Ed. 46 (Contemporary France and its Heritage) - HU 112- Prof. Roberts Comp. Ed. 62 (Principles of Digital Computers) ~ BH W3 - Mr. Me Keown . Comp. Ed. 66 (Sex and Sexuality) - SS 016 and BU 204 - Prof. Lambert Cqmp. Ed. 67 (Perspectives on Computer Languages) ~ BH 201 - Prof. Ingvarssoli Economics 10 .(Elementary Economics, Part I) Sec. 3 ~ SS I 15 - Prof. Kent Economics 138 (Quantitative Methods in Economics I)- SS 012- Mr. Hoiska llistory 142 (Modern Germany: From Bismarck to Hitler)~ SS 112- Prof. Hansen German 62 (European Short Fiction)- HU 016 -· Prof. Warde Physics 121 (Physics· of the Atmosphere) - NW 222 - Prof. Windsor Psychology 10 (A First Course in Psychology) Sec. 4- PY 113- Prof. N.H. Walbek TUESDAY, P~CEMBER S 2:00-4=00 P.M. Philosophy 14 (Greek Philosophy) - HU 112 - Prof. Peterson AmericanStpdies 62 (htnior Seminar)-- HU H4- Mr. P. Allen Mathematics 10 (Calculus I) Sec. I - BH 203 ~ Prof~ Maddaus Sec. 2- BH 2QS -Prof. W. Stone Sec. 3 - BU 204 ~ Prof. Leach Sec.4 ~ BU 204 -_Prof. Strait Sec. 5 ~ BH 108 ~ Prof. Roulier Sec, 6 - BH 207 - Prof. Gillette Sec. 7 - BH 201 - Prof. Ling Sec. 8 - BU 204 - Prof. Loughlin Mathematics 12 (CalcUlus II) Sec. 1 - BU 204 ~Prof. LeacQ: Sec. 2 - BU 102 ~ Prof. Tornga Mathematics 14 (Calculus HI) Sec. 1 - BU 204 ~ Prof. Loughlin Sec. 2 - BH 104 ..,--'- Prof. f'airchild Sec. 3 -. BU 204 - Prof. Strait . Psychology .62 (Practicum in Child Study I) - PY Zl3 ·- Prof. Girdner WEDNESDAY, DECEMBER .6 9:00-U:OO A.M. Comp~ Ed. 10 (Freshman Commons in Humallities and Social Sdepces) . Topic 5 ~ {Tbe Evolution of Hu~an Society)- SS 010 - Prof. Gracey Comp. Ed •. 57 (The Nature of Mathematics)~ BH . . 207 - Prof. Gillette Economics 10 (Elementary Economics, Part I) Sec. 2 ~ SS H3 - Prof. Phaup Economics ·J31 (Microeconomic Analy1:1is) ~ SS 012 ~ Prof. Kenney Eeonomics 1St. (Resource and Environmental Economics),~ SS 117 ~Prof. Me Namara English 10 · (Th~ English Literar:Y. Tradition: Medieval and Renaissance) ~- HU .0;14 - Prof. Stevenson History 13 (Democracy in Crisis: Civil War and Reconstruction)- SS 115 ~Prof. Penney History 3S (Europe in the Early Modern Era) - SS 014 - Prof. Hansen Chinese 10 (Basic Chinese I) ~ HU 116 - Prof. Woo Chinese 130 (Modern Chinese I) - HU 116 - Prof, Woo ., Chinese 140 (Modern Expository Chinese I) - HU 116 ~ Prof. Woo . . . . ..~ · Fren.:h 10 {Basic French I) ~ HU UO -: PrQt. .j:.(:·· Thomas . . \ . . · ~ Spanish 10 (Basic Spanish I) ~ HU 112 - Mrs. Vinick · rbilosophy 12 (Philosophical :Problems) :- HU ll7 ~ Mr. Bynagle Biology 13 {Biology of Plants ~ Core III) - HU liS- Profs. Urban, Tobiessen . Biology 14 (Biology of Animals~ Core I)- SS 016 -Prof. Roth Biology- 54 (Early Animal Development) - BU 204 - Prof. Rappaport , . , . Mathematics 18 (Introduction to . ~ogic and SeJ Theory) - BH 106 - Prof. Seiken · ' · Mathem-tics .30 (Ordinary Differential J;:quatiops) ~ BH 108 - Prof. Tornga · · Mathematics 136 (Real Variable Theory I) - BH · W7 - Prof. Roulier Physies ll8 (Instrumentation for Scien.ce- and Medicine) ~ SH 203 - Prof. Lewis Physics 132 (Electricity and Magnetism I). - S H 100 - Prof. W. Schwarz More on Page S Why are_ the nets still up on the tennis courts?. photo by Ces ~ernan - 1 I I

. CONCORD/ENS!~ Fridf!Y· November 17, 1972 ~ .. .. ~. . FRIDAY, DECEMBER 8 9:00-11:00 A.M. Comp. Ed. 41 (Japanese Aesthetics) - SS HS Prof. Thurston Economics 10 (Elementary Economics, Part I) Sec. 1- SS 016- Prof. Herman Economics 133 (Public Policy and the American Economy)- SS 012- Prof. Wile History 196 (Seminar in Early American History: Law and Society)- SS 110- Prof. N. Allen Spani!lh 140 (Spanish Literature of the Golden Age) - HU HO~ Mrs. Astiz Political Science 132 (American Political Thought) - SS 112 - Prof. Marcell Political Science 159 (Seminar: International Politics)~ SS 117 - Prof. Gati Sociology 157 (Sociology of Industry and Work) - SS OlO- Prof. Kusterer Sociology 163 (Classic Social Theory) - SS 113 - Prof. Gracey Chemistry 10 (Fundamental Chemistry I) Sec. I - BiJ 204 - Prof. Scaife Sec. 2- BU 204 ~Prof. Sutter Wednesday morning snow outside the Payne Gate on Union St Sec. 3 - BU 109 - Prof. Werner Sec. 4 - BU 204 - Prof. Scaife WEDNESt)A. Y, I)EC¥MBER 6 ':00-11:00 A.M. E.S. 20 (Mechanics) - NW 222- Prof. Panlilio E.S. 22 (Science of Engineering Materials) - SH 110 - Prof. Potter C.E. 47· (Reinforced Cqncrete) - BU 100 - Mr. Pikul · E.E. 30 .(Transmissions l*etworks) _,.. SH 106 Prof. Galantowicz W.EDNESDAV, DECEMBER 6 :z:oo-4:01) P .M, Comp. Ed. 11 (Freshman C()nurtons in Science and Engineering) · Topic 1 - (Science and Public Policy) - BH 201 -Prof. Hull Classics 21 (History of Greece) - SS 016 - Prof, Reece Classics 30 (The Origins of European Drama) - HU 119 - Prof. Testroet German 10 (Basic German I) ~ HU 114 - Mr. Kruger Biology tS (Continui~y of Life- Core IV) - BU 204 ~.Pfoi'S. But~~1; o~igleish ' · ' ' ': Chemistry 40 (Quantitative Chemistry) - BH '}.07 - Prof. Schaefer · Chenti~try 152 (Physical Chemistry II) - BH 205 - Prof. Frosch · . Physics U (Introductory Pllysics I) - SH 110 ·- Prof. Titus Psychology 10 (A First Course in Psycho}<)gy) Sec. 1 ~ PY 113 ~ Prof. HllntleY- . . Psyehology 46 (Phy~iological Psychology) - PY ((}2 -Prof. Berthold C.E. 42 (Soil Mechanics) - BlJ 109 - Pr()f. Harlow E.E. 42 (Servo Sy~tems and Control) - NW 116 - Prof. Russ M.E. 30 (Dynamics 'or Linear Systems) - SH 106 - Prof. Be Vier THURSDAY;DECEMBER 7 9;00-U:OO A.M. Comp. Ed. 10 (Freshman Commons in Humanities and Social Sciences) Topic 8 - (Freedom) - HU llO. - Prof. En ternan Comp. Ed. l1 (Freshman Commons in Science and Engineering) . Topic 7 - (Introduction to Computer Programming) Sec. 1 - SS 112 - Prof. Driscoll Sec. 2 \--- BH'201- Prof. Galantowicz Sec. 3 - SH 110 - Mr. McKeown Sec. 5 - BH 207 ~ Prof. Ga.ij:ar Economics 143 (Ecortcnnic Growth and Development)~ SS 117 -Prof. Kershner Histcny 73 (East Asian Civilization - China and Japan)- SS ll5- Prof. Thurston History 150 (Topics in English Legal and Constitutional History)~ SS 010 ~Prof. N. Allen History 187 (Modern Jewish History) - SS 012 - Prof. Berk French 143 (The Writers of Romanticism) - HU 112 - Prof. Thomas . Philosophy 20 (Classical Lpgic) - HU 114 - Prof. Peterson Political Science 130 (History of Political Thought) - SS 113 - Prof. Gunnell Socio1ogy 146 (Sociology of Developing Countries) - SS 914- Prof. Kusterer Statistics 10 (Introduction) ~ BH 312 - rMt. Mirabile C.E. lO (Land Measurements: Theory. and Application) - BU !09 - Prof. Male c.s. 10 (Introduction to C()mputer Science) - HU 117- Prof. G. Williams · c.s. 12 (FOrtran 'Programming) - HU 115 - Prof. Goodheart photo by Les Kernan THURSDAY, DECEMBER 7 2:00-4:00,P.M. ( . Comp. Ed. 86 (Law in a Democratic Society) - SS 115 - Prof. Anderson Greek 133 (Aeschylus, Sophocles and Euripides) ~ HU 113 -· Prof. Te~trOf!t English 170 (Studies in American Literature) - HU 014- Mr. P. Allen Statistics 201 (Introduction to Probability and Statistics) - BH 312 - Mr. Schmee Chemistry 30 (Organic Chemistry) Sec. 1 - SS 016-:-- Prof. Sheffer Sec. 2 ~ BU 204 - Prof. Sowa Mathematics 160 {Calculus of Variations)- BH 201 - Prof. Seiken , . Physics l3 (Introductory Physics II) - SH 110 - ,. i.. Prof. Hall . · Concordy will not publish next week (No~. 21) due to · the depopulation of campus by -the Thanksgiving Recess. Out f'mal issue of the term will . be published on Wednesday, November 29, tile only issue · that week. The deadline for· £opy will be 7 P.M. Tuesday night at the office above· ·security. Happy Turkey Day. · C.S. 20 (Machine and Assembly Language Programming)- BH 207- Prof .. G. Williams FRIDAY, DECEMBER 8 2:00-4:00 P.M. Comp. Ed. 11 (Freshman Commons in Science and Engineering) Topic 4- (Light and Color)- BH 207- Prof. Goble Latin 10 (Principles of Latin) - HU 116 - Prof. Johnson Latin 133 (Literature of the Late Republic) - HU 116- Prof. Johnson History 167 (The Role of Business in U.S. - Latin American Relations) - SS 1 H - Prof. Bristol French 12 (Basic French ·m) ~ HU 110 - Prof. Roberts German U (Basic German Ill) - HU 117 - Pmf. Klemm · Hebrew 10 (Basic Hebrew I) - HU 115 - Mr. Welkovics , Russian 10 (Basic Russian I) - HU 112 - Prof. · Jernakoff · Sociology 10 (Introduction to Sociology l) - SS 016·- Prof. Kusterer · Biology 150 (Evolutionary Biology) - BH 205 - Prof. Dalgleish MatheQtatics 41 (Linear Algebra 1) · Sec. 1 - BH 20 l - Prof. Maddaus Sec. 2 - BH 203 - Prof. Ling E.S. 26 (Thermodynamics and Heat Transfer) - SH ItO- Prof. Aubrey Remember when Robert Redford was cavorting on the Chester Arthur statUe and the future student center was under the control of Columbia Pictures? ~ photo by Les Kernan

!' 6 Scanlon's Hoop Features Depth by BILLY DeBEAR and LEE RlMSKY Coming off an undefeated JV soccer season, Coach Bill Scanlon is enthusiastic about the possibility of duplicating this feat with his current freshman basketball squad, Superior height, depth, and speed are the assets the team will depend upon to improve upon last year's rec0rd of 10-6. Unlimited depth is the most apparent strength of this year's freshmen. At this point, only two weeks before the team's first game, no player can boast of a definite position in the starting line-up. Coach Scanlon emphasized that he will utilize this depth to its fullest efficiency by substituting liberally throughout the season. . Friday, November 17, 1972 Ray Marcinowski (6'6\) and John Raymond (6'5\) will probably share the center position. Aside from the scoring and rebounding they will supply, Marcinowski and Raymond will also be expected to intimidate the other team's shooters, an essential part of defense that Coach Scanlon has taught the team to play. Speed must also be present for the team's aggressive defense to work. John Debio, Mark Gillum, Bill Henson, Mark Glazer, and Brian Breton, all strong candidates for the two guard positions, and Steve Kelly, Joel Fischer (recovering from a knee inkury), Bill Coppula, Dave Venier, and John Hallard, the forward hopefulls, all have the lightning quick reflexes to make the defense work. Union should force opposing teams into a high number of turnovers and a low number of wins. THE 1972-73 FRESHMAN BASKETBALL TEAM. WRUC,640 on your AM dial, presents the Union-Hamilton clash, starting at 1 :30 Saturday Matmen Look To A Winning Season With a plethora of lightweighis the outlook for this year's Union College wrestling squad is good. Mark Zullo. the returning captain, hopes his squad can show enough depth up the middle, from 150 to 177. to reverse last season's unreasonably poor showing. Last year, facing one of the most ridiculous schedules ever imaginable, the st:tuad tailed consistently to win. Yet this was, almost man for man, the same squad which lost only one dual meet the entire 1970-71 season. That season showed four freshman. Al Calabro at 118, Zullo at 126, Pat Wardell at 177 and H ow i e Benedict as the heavyweight who lost only seven matches out of 63. In fact, Zullo, Calabro, and Benedict lost only by MARK W. MINDEL four. Calabro broke several records as he recorded nine straight pins. Last year, however, problems plagued the team. The team wrestled five dual meets over a one week period immediately after returning from Christmas break, and then were idle for two weeks. The team was leaderless until Zullo was elected captain halfway through the season. There were also-problems with making weight, and most of the season Calabro wrestled at 134, two classes above his record- breaking weight. This year, Zullo and Calabro. besides facing competition from themselves at 126, will be pushed by sophs Bruce Freeman and Frank Giamartino, and junior Jim Koch, who is trying to make a wrestling comeback. These five will battle along with some ·talented freshman lightweights for the 118, 126, and 134 spots. One good thiag about this qepth is that in a triangular meet Zullo could wrestle 126 against one team, while Calabro could wrestle the other. Returning in the middle weights are Gary Gurney; Larry Dagastino, and possibly Jeff White, while Wardell and Benedict will fill the heavy positions. The first official meet is Jan. 13 . versus Williams and Coast Guard at Williams while the first home meet is Jan. 17 against Potsdam. Last Saturday Zullo, Freeman, and Giamartino wrestled in a preseason tournament at Colgate. Eleven Gridders To .Bow Out Against Hamilton Hesse ,center ,Skip Lega and split end,B()b Mitchell. Also: linebacker. Ron photo by Les Kernan Walters' Team Working Hard by FRANK DeLUCIA ••without equivocation, this is the , hardest-working, rnost enthusiastic team I've ever coached.\ That's a quote from Coach Gary Walters. You may have heard the same utterance last week from one of your favorite political personage (please insert coached for represented.) Yet Walters is rnost earnest, as well he should be. The time to flatter and fantasize, the pre-season, has all but ended. All that remains is more hard \Vork and a schedule that gets t~>ugh early this year. Tri-captains Mike Doyle, Tom Bacher, and. Geoff Walker have returned with memories of their previous two years in Garnet. Two seasons that realized a 37-6 record. A record that, C1>ach Walters enjoys saying, .. breeds optimism.\ Breefl,ing some optimism of his own, Charlie Gugliotta has added front court depth, unknown in the past. Gugliotta is what many people refer to as a .. natural pivot man \ He'll ·be in the middle with \natural .. forward Tom Bacher to join naturally brusing Mike Doyle and cornerman Tom Combs. One need not be a student of the game to remember that last year's .. other guard,\ super-slick Willie Carmondy has returned. Carmondy is expected to guide the Club's offense, barring any further difficulty from a chronic knee problem. As for the fifth mah, he'll probably be the guy shuttling in and out of the line- up, contributing when the big boys give him the ball. Number · five on any given night could be Chuck Abba, Luke Dillon, or, surprise-surprise, Geoff Wal~er. Yes, to add some extra offensive power, Walters .is exper·. . \ng with \The Rainmaker.\ Wa ~. r's response is an extra hbut's practice every· aftefuoon.. KeVin Crawford, Bill Underhill, .• and Rich Maisano. will. aJs.o contribute. \In general, •• · Walters concluded, \what we h~ve is an offense 1 perhaps lackiiJg the explosiveness of previous years, but a \defense capable . of consistent good play. A~.· good year will. take hard work: . Ye~, the work• .ethic is still applicable in this Field House.\ And to believe him you need only watch the Eleven yell ''DENY\ in a defensive drill. (Visitors are welcomed at practice, 4~00-6:00 in the Field House.) * * * * As far as any one knows, the Union College, with its hopes for a winning season ended, will meet Hamilton Saturday at Clinton, N.Y., in the 77th renewal of New York State's longest continuing rivalry. Hoffman, linebacker, Kinzie Weimer, defensive tackle, Mike Martin and defensive end, Charlie Weekes. GR.ID SlATS rugby game scheduled for this Saturday against Schenectady R.F. C. is still going to be played. Yes, folks, the ruggers · will be out there in the snow and cold to prove to. everyone that, contrary to popular opinion, ruggers are not pussies. Be out there to see if ·they are. lf they do play, you will see a good game. If they don't play, don't let it be said that I called you a sucker. Although the Dutchmen, now 3-5 going into the traditional se-ason ender, can't equal the .500 mark, a victory over Hamilton can partially erase the frustration of three straight upsets at the hands of the Continentals who last year won their only victory of the season in a 12-10 nod over Union. The game will mark the final collegiate football appearance for II Union seniors inc.Iuding captain Tom Anacker who missed the Middlebury game but is expected to be ready .,for limited duty against Hamilton. Other seniors in their final game are quarterback, Dave Rearic 1 offensive tackle . Bob Wilson , offensive guard Bob Two other Dutchman seniors, fullback, Rich Jaszczak and safety Mike Raab are injured and will miss the game. Against the Continentals, Union will be counting heavily on halfback,Ron Westbrook who leads the team in every offensive category except passing and even in that area he has completed two of three passes this season for the top Dutchman percentage. The 155 pound sopho mor.e scored both touchdowns including one on an 84 yard kickoff return in last week's 35-14 loss to Middlebury. Keying the defense will be junior Jim Kewley at middle guard and sophomore tackle Don Rupsis. RUSHING No. Westbrook 118 Jaszczak 43 Deshler 34 Mathias 38 Siedlecki 33 O'Brien 32 Lauver 19 ' Rearic 29 PASSING Att/Comp % Rea ric 97 31 32 Mitchell 15 7 47 Utschel 12 4 33 Lauver 10 2 20 Siedlecki .2 I 50 Westbrook 3 2 67 Yds. Avg. 568 4.8 163 3.6 160 4.7 158 4.2 ll9 3.1 83 2.6 -28 -1.5 -66 -2.3 Yds. Int. 281 8 55 2 66 2 9 0 21 0 24 0 TD 5 0 0 I 4 0 0 1 TD 2 0 0 0 0 0 Levrs Dave's· Mens.Shop 453 State St. (4owntown Schenectady) iiUIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIJIIIIIIIIIIUIIIIIIIIIIIIIIII~ i MIKE'S ! I ERIE BLVD. i I HOT DOGS i 5 HAMBURGERS 5 ~ BEST STEAK ~ = = § SANDWICHES ~ - - = **** = ~ 1135 Eire Blvd. ~ - - -+\'l--r9--r+--E\\\\1--l::l--f~Hr-:~C~--E:J--t::J--E3i'illlllllllllllllllllllllllllfllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllli111F p \ a n a tl 0 E ( 1

6 Scanlon's Hoop Features Depth b) BILLY DeBEAR and LEE RIMSKY C 'nmin!! oil an undefeated .JV soccer ~cason, Coach Bill Scanlon !~ enthusiastic about the possibility of duplicating this feat \\ ith his current freshman basketball squad. Superior height, depth. and speed are the assets the team will depend upon to imprme upon last year\ record of !0-6. Unlimited depth is the rnost apparent strength of this year's fre'ihmen. At this point. only two weeks before the team's first ~ame, no player can boast of a definite position in the starting line-up. Coa<.:h Scanlon cmpha~i;cd that he will utilize this depth to its fullest efficiency h) substituting liberally throughout the season. Friday, Novemher 17, 1972 Ray Marcinowski (6'6\) and John Raymond (6'5\) will rrobahly ~hare the center position. Aside from the ~coring and rebounding they \-\ill supply, Marcinowski and Raymond \'>ill also be expected to intimidate the other team's shooters, an essential part of defense that Coach Scanlon has taught the team to play. Speed must also be present for the team's aggressive defense to work. John Debio. Mark Gillum, Bill Henson, Mark ( Jla7cr, and Brian Breton, all strong candidates for the two ~uard positions, and Steve Kelly, Joel Fischer (recovering lnHn a knee inkury), Bill Coppula, Dave Venier, and Joha Hidlard. the forward hopefulls, all have the lightning quick rcllexcs to make the defense work. Union should force opposing teams into a high number of turnovers and a low number of wins. THE 1972-73 FRESHMAN BASKETBALL TEAM. r----------- photo by Les Kernan WRUC, 640 on your AM dial, presents the Union-Hamilton clash, starting at 1:30 Saturday Matmen Look To A Winning Season With a plethora of lightweights the outlook for this year's Union Collt:ge wrestling squad is good. Mark Zullo. the returning captain. hopes his squad can ~how enough depth up the middle. from 150 to 177. to rcvcrsc last season's unreasonably poor showing. Last year. facing one of the nwst ridiculous schedules ever imaginable, the squad failed consistently to win. Yet this was, almost man for man, the samr s4 uad which lost only one dual meet the entire 1970-71 season. That season showed four lreshman. AI Calabro at )Jg, Zullo at 126. Pat Wardell at 177 and H ow i e Benedict as the heavyweight who lost only seven matches out of 63. In fact. Zullo. Calabro. and Benedict lost only by MARK W. MINDEL four. Calabro broke several records as he recorded nine straight pins. Last year, however, problems plagued the team. The team wrestled five dual meets over a one week period immediately after returning from Christmas break, and then were idle for two weeks. The team was leaderless until Zullo was elected captain halfway through the season. There were also problems with making weight, and most of the season Calabro wrestled at 134, two classes above his record- breaking weight. This year, Zullo and Calabro, besides facing competition from themselves at 126, will be pushed by sophs Bruce Freeman and Frank Giamartino, and junior Jim Koch, who is trying to make a wrestling comeback. These five will battle along with some talented freshman lightweights for the 118, 126, and 134 spots. One good thing abmrt this depth is that in a triangular meet Zullo could wrestle 126 against one team, while Calabro could wrestle the other. the middle Gurney; Larry possibly Jeff Wardell and Returning in weights are Gary Dagastino, and White, while Benedict will fill the heavy positions. The first official meet is Jan. 13 versus Williams and Coast Guard at Williams while the first home meet is Jan. 17 against Potsdam. Last Saturday Zullo, Freeman, and Giamartino wrestled in a preseason tournament at Colgate. Eleven Gridders To Bow Out Against Hamilton Hesse. center ,Skip Lega and split end,Bob Mitchell. Also: linebacker Ron Walters' Team Working Hard by FRANK DeLUCIA \Without equivocation, this is the hardest-working, most enthusiastic team I've ever coached.\ That's a quote from Coach Gary Walters. You may have heard the same utterance last week from one of your favorite political personage (please insert coached for represented.) Yet Walters is most earnest, as well he should be. The time to flatter and fantasize, the pre-season, has all but ended. All that remains is more hard work and a schedule that gets tough early this year. T ri-captains Mike Doyle, Tom Bacher, and Geoff Walker have returned with memories of their previous two years in Garnet. Two seasons that realized a 37-6 record. A record that, Coach Walters enjoys saying, \breeds optimism.\ Breeding some optimism of his own, Charlie Gugliotta has added front court depth, unknown in the past. Gugliotta is what many people refer to as a \natural pivot man\ He'll be in the middle with \natural\ forward Tom Bacher to join naturally brusing Mike Doyle and cornerman Tom Combs. One need not be a student of the game to remember that last years \other guard,\ super-slick Willie Carmondy has returned. Carmondy is expected to guide the Club's offense, barring any further difficulty from a chronic knee problem. As for the fifth man, he'll probably be the guy shuttling in and out of the line- up, contributing when the big boys give him the ball. Number five on any given night could be Chuck Abba, Luke Dillon, or, surprise-surprise, Geoff Walker. Yes, to add some extra offensive power, Walters is experimenjjing with \The Rainmaker.\ Wafirer's response is an extra hour's practice every afternoon. Kevin Crawford, Bill Underhill, and Rich Maisano will also contribute. \In general,\ Walters concluded, \what we have is an offense 1 perhaps lacking the explosiveness of previous years, but a defense capable of consistent good play. A good year will take hard work. Yes, the work ethic is still applicable in this Field House.\ And to believe him you need only watch the Eleven yell \DENY\ in a defensive drill. (Visitors are welcomed at practice, 4:00-6:00 in the Field House.) *' * * * As far as any one knows, the Union College, with its hopes for a winning season ended, will meet Hamilton Saturday at Clinton. N.Y., in the 77th renewal of New York State's longest continuing rivalry. Hoffman, linebacker, Kinzie Weimer. defensive tackle, Mike Martin and defensive end. Charlie Weekes. GRID STATS rugby game scheduled for this Saturday against Schenectady R.F. C. is still going to be played. Yes, folks, the ruggers will be out there in the snow and cold to prove to everyone that, contrary to popular opinion, ruggers are not pussies. Be out there to see if 'they are. If they do play, you will see a good game. If they don't play, don't let it be said that I called you a sucker. . '. Although the Dutchmen. now J-5 going into the traditional -;cason ender. can't equal the .500 mark. a victory o> er Hamilton can partially erase the frustration of three straight upsets at the hands of the Continentals who l:tst year won their only \ictory ol the sea>on in a 12-10 nod over l:nion. rhe game will mark the final collegiate foothall appearance for II t.nion ~eniors including captain !om Anacker who lllMcd the \1iddlehury game hut ~~ c\pcctcd to he ready ..,tor lunttL·<.I duty a_g:umt Hamilton. ( Jther .,eninr' in thetr final !!<~me arc qua rtcr hack D;n e R.c;mc ollcn,Jit: tackle Boh \\iJ,on ,,lil:n.,t\C guard Boh Two other Dutchman seniors. fullback, Rich Jaszczak and safety Mike Raab are injured and will miss the game. Against the Continentals. lJ nion will be counting heavily on halfhack,Ron Westbrook who leads the team in every offensive category except passing and even in that area he has completed two of three passes this season for the top Dutchman percentage. I he 155 pound sophomore scored both touchdowns including one on an X4 yard kickott return in last v.eek\ .~5-14 lm~ to Middlebun. Keying the defen~e 1.1.ill be Juni~H .lim Kewley at middle guard and ~ophornore tackle Don Rup~t~ RUSHING Westbrook Jaszczak Deshler Mathias Siedlecki O'Brien Lauver Rearic PASSING Rearic Mitchell litschel I. a tl\ er Sicdleckr We~throok No. 118 43 34 38 33 32 19 29 Att/Comp % 97 31 .n 15 7 47 12 4 .13 10 2 20 2 50 3 ..., h7 Yds. Avg. 568 4.8 163 3.6 160 4.7 158 4.2 I 19 3.1 83 2.6 -28 -1.5 -66 -2.3 Yds. Int. 281 8 55 ..., 66 2 9 0 21 () 24 0 TD 5 0 0 I 4 0 0 TD 2 0 0 0 () () Levrs. Dave's' Mens Shop 453 State St. (downtown Schenectady) ~ltiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiJS I MIKE'S ! = ERIE BLVD. I ~ 5 ===-~ H:~!u~~~~s =-=_i BEST STEAK I SA~~';';m:s I - 1135 Eire Blvd. - ~1111111111111111111111111111111111111111111 !II IIIII 11111111111 ~ ' ~ r :t ' ·{ I ' i ·t I r-t . I ' i ,\J -, ' I ., e j I Jll dl ' f a ~ a s t ( I ( l

fifth guy line- big · be or, bur's an the of Yes, to a are the this be gers · and hat, out do If be CONCORDIENS/S, Eriday, Novemberl7, 1972 Bachelor . . Hall Continued fromPage 2 . through some undefined \connection.\ PETER PRYOR photo by Jeff Weilburg The man in the chair, Frank, was 37, taU and thin. His hands shook as he turned face down the Penthouse centerfoid that lay at his feet, and he spoke with some. difficulty as he explained that he had cerebral palsy. He told me that he had studied psychology at Bard College for four years·, and then engineering at M.I.T. He said he'd fought in Korea, and he knew that ''war is hell.\ Like Alex, Frank was pow divorced, out of work, and living in Bachelor's Hall. Like Alex, he had used his .. connections\ to get his 17 year old son off the hook on a shop-lifting charge. Pryor Continued from Page 2 ·Concluding his lecture, Mr. Pryor stated that the old .adage · \Buyer beware!'' is still appli<;able shy:e business has and needs a profit-making motive and does not give away something for nothing, P.l.R.G. was founded early this term by Sue Grelick. After observing a consumer group at Buffalo State last year, she decided to start a similar program at Union. Initial response t.o the idea was good and abou~ 35 students attended P.J.R.G:'s first meeting. The Tuesday night meeting was attended by only 10 students, however, .and ifP.l.R.G. is to be an effective organization, many more interested consumers are needed by the group. Miss Grelick emphasized that the group is open for suggestions and all interested students are welcome. We talked about the movie filmed at Union, and Alex told me that he had talked to Streisand while sitting next to her at the Holiday Inn and found her to he \stuck-up and cross- eyed.''Alex and Frank argued over Alex's last cigarette and ·Steering Minutes , ended up sharing it. When that was gone, they argued over who would go next door to borrow another pack. When Frank lost the argument and went next . and wasn't it wonderful how this door, Alex explained that he doctor, who knew about liis wife couldn't leave Frank alone in his and Alex, used his influence to room because he was a thief. A get Alex admitted to the V .A. little later, Frank nearly started a Hospital while others were being ftst-fight by accusing Alex of turned away? Alex couldn~t help stealing a half pint ofhis whiskey. but hear Frank say that Barbara The Minutes of the Steering Committee of November 13, 1972: · The meeting was convened in Hu. 115 at 9:15 p;m; by President Tony Faga. A letter from DeaJl Malloy addr~ssed to the Steering Committee was read. In this letter, Dean Malloy stated his desire that the Steering Committee endorse the Red Ctoss Blood Drive which will be held on February 8-9, 1973. The motion was made and voted upon unanimously to endorse the Blood Drive. GLAD RAGS: PLAID BAGS ,f you're tired of slim jims, break out in bags~that wond- erful styling with pleated, tunnel· waistband, wide flaring legs and deep cuffs. From $lQ, lafayette CLOTHES IN·C. 416 State 374-5287 John Bridger, secretaty of the Student Tax Committee, presented his report, After reviewing it, a motion was made and passed to table the vote on the ratification of this report. A motion was made to establish an Ad Hoc Committee to explore the possibility of student clubs funding themselves .. The motion was seconded and voted upon unanimously. Following discussion, a motion was made to · ·appoint Marty Sherman head of this committee. The motion was seconded and Alex told me that he had and the doctor both wanted the drun~ .hims~lf into th~ Veterans 1 divorce, and were only using ;\dm1mstrat1on Hospital, . had Alex as the third party to justify JUSt gotten out, and was gomg to the divorce on grounds of quit \cold turkey.\ Minutes later, adultery. Alex pretended not to he offered me a drink as he hear this, and I did the same, and poured Seagrams 7 into a dirty he showed me a scribbled letter glass and mixed it with tapwater. that he'd spent all day composing Alex was disappointed, and I for Barbara: wasn't feeling too proud of \My Dearest Barbara~ . passed :urumimouslyl·•. ,_ The meeting was adjourned at 10:00 .p.m. The _ next Steering Committee meeting will be ·held on November .27, 1972 at 9:15 p.m. in the Beta Lounge. m1~elf, as I. politely .r~fused, not If anything happens to me, wllhng to nsk hepat1t1s. He told take care of things and remember me about his girlfriend, Barbara, that I love you with all my heart . who loved him and was going to I love yo_u so very much that I help cure him of his drinking know we will see each other in problem. .. another world She* and her husband, a · doctor, ~re getting a divorce, To ~he family of Kelvin A. Cook and to the brother~ of Delta Chi Fraternity, we send our heartf~lt condolences on the passing of a beloved one . -The brothers of Sigma Chi- Arcade Electronics Why buy SONY when you c·an pay less for what seems to be ~he same product? SONY tv's have better reception than other sets, useful in all reception areas. This is especially evident 'in color sets. · SONY .reliability is such that we guarantee all SONY f~r one full year, parts and labor, as oppossed to th<!. standard ninety days. SONY customers come back smiling. Arcade Electronics* Proctor's Arcade Ph. 370-3680 - I love you, Alex\ 1 asked Alex what he thought was going to happen to him, and he said that he was feeling sick from not drinking, and that he would have only one drink every four hours, just like medicine. If he didn't feel better soon, he would go back to the V .A. RESEARCH MATERIALS All Topics ~ Send for your descriptive, up-to-date, 128-page, mail order catalog of 2,300' - quality research papers. Enclose $1.00 to cover postage and handling. RESEARCH UNLIMITED 519 GLENROCK AVE, SUIJE 203 LOS ANGELES, CAliF. 901124 . {213) 47t8474 • 471-5493 \We need a local salesman\ ... .- .A =:·,;;. - - - .., ___ .... ---~- ~~ l 'b. ll ' ~~ ~:\ Purity SQ e Q S ~~ ~~@', ';&'~ j~ (~ . r- . . '~ S.. · PHARMACY. INC. 4 ~ . ~Accuracy_ ' j:> ~ 527 Union St: '~ ' , ~ Schenectady .N..Y. ~~ ~ Ph. 370-2300 i~ ~ ·WELCOME § ~ UNION STUDENTS ~ ~~~<47><.//>~~ NEWEST LUNCH. . ' I For the best hot dogs and sauce in town. M-F 8 a.m.-2 a.m. Weekends 8 a.m.-4~t.m. 715 Albany St. 346-9424 7 photo by Les Kernan Hospital. I couldn't think of anything intelligent to say to the man so 1 glanced at my watch and declared that it was time for me to leave. I rose, and realized that I'd never taken off my jacket - I guess I'd never planned to stay more than a few minutes. Two hours seemed like an- awful long time to spend in poverty, and of course I knew that, for me, it was only temporary. I reached out my hand to Frank and he stabbed at it with his, and I thanked God that his disease hadn't made ·f;t~m miss. As Alex shook my hand/M told me that I may have chang~ his mind about McGovern, an~ ' asked me what I was paid for m}i;\; work. I told him that I was well '• · paid if I'd gotten another vote for ' 'McGovern, but I · didn't really believe it myself. I've since abandoned the idea for a term .paper on canvassing, and I doubt . that Alex even voted, but I know those two hours weren't wasted. I can't explain exactly how, but I was well paid for my time. tevrs • Dave's. Mens Shop 453 State St. (downtown Schenectady) THE OPEN DOOR. Q.y£lt!J :&otStore- 14 cooks fer ad' agd '11 t36 JAY STREET ~n .Mon.-Sat.+10:3o-s:3o Tliurs. til[ 9:00 _phmu .-.jtb:..z,119 Come in· a~ .browse! PROCTOR'S ~~:.~a; · STATE ST.. SCHENECTADY ,l!lr:::=~==~===~m;:~~=~=~~:;:m:m~~=~=~=;==~~==~l!!l tl~ Nov. 16-22 ~ill!! Buttedlies Are . Free Nov. 22-28 Walt Disney's Dumbo Legend of Lobo Nov. 29-Dec. 8 Bad Company ALFIE

fifth guy line- big ld be , or. n~ing and also an the of Yes, to in a are the this be and out do If be ·t_ / r·• . ' ' I tl ' .; [I J t' I I I ,,! ~ : I ~~(.(. I ;Ji \ 'r- j I ~ ' CONCORDIENSIS, Friday, November 17, 1972 Bachelor Hall Continued from Page 2 through some undefined \connection.\ PETER PRYOR photo by Jeff Weilhurg The ma:n in the chair, Frank, was 37, tall and thin. His hands shook as he turned face down the Penthouse centerfold that lay at his feet, and he spoke with some difficulty as he explained that he had cerebra:! palsy. He told me that he had studied psychology at Bard College for four years, and then engineering at M.l.T. He said he'd fought in Korea, and he knew that \war is hell.\ Like Alex, Frank was now divorced, out of work, and living in Bachelor's Hall. Like Alex, he had used his \connections\ to get his 17 year old son off the hook on a shop-lifting charge. Pryor Continued from Page 2 Concluding his lecture, Mr. Pryor stated that the old adage · \Buyer beware!\ is still applicable since basiness has and needs a profit-making motive and does not give away something for nothing. P.I.R.G. was founded early this term by Sue Grelick. After observing a consumer group at Buffalo State last year, she decided to start a similar program at Union. Initial response to the idea was good and about 35 students attended P.l.R.G.'s first meeting. The Tuesday night meeting was attended by only 10 students, however, and if P.LR.G. is to be an effective organization, many more interested consumers are needed by the group. Miss Grelick emphasized that the group is open for suggestions and all interested students are welcome. Steering Minutes We talked about the movie filmed at Union, and Alex told me that he had talked to Streisand while sitting next to her at the Holiday Inn and found her to be \stuck-up and cross- eyed.\Alex aHd Frank argued over Alex's last cigarette and ended up sharing it. When that was gone, they argued over who would go next door to borrow another pack. When Frank lost the argument and went next door, Alex explained that he couldn't leave Frank alone in his room because he was a thief. A little later, Frank nearly started a fist-fight by accusing Alex of stealing a half pint of his whiskey. The Minutes of the Steering Committee of November 13, 1972: The meeting was convened in Hu. 115 at 9:15p.m. by President Tony Faga. A letter from Dean Malloy addressed to the Steering Committee was read. In this letter, Dean Malloy stated his desire that the Steering Committee endorse the Red Cross Blood Drive which will be held on February 8-9, 1973. The motion was made and voted upon unanimously to endorse the Blood Drive. GLAD RAGS: PLAJDBAGS John Bridger, secretaty of the Student Tax Committee, presented his report, After reviewing it, a motion was made and passed to table the vote on the ratification of this report. A motion was made to establish an Ad Hoc Committee to explore the possibility of student clubs funding themselves. The motion was seconded and voted upon unanimously. Following discussion, a motion was made to appoint Marty Sherman head of this committee. The motion was seconded and passed unanimously.. The meeting was adjourned at LO:OO p.m. The next Steering Committee meeting will be held on November 27, 1972 at 9:15 p.m. in the Beta Lounge. Alex told me that he had drunk himself into the Veterans Administration Hospital, had just gotten out, and was going to quit \cold turkey.\ Minutes later, he offered me a drink as he poured Seagrams 7 into a dirty glass and mixed it with tapwater. Alex was disappointed, and I wasn't feeling too proud of myself, as I politely refused, not willing to risk hepatitis. He told me about his girlfriend, Barbara, who loved him and was going to help cure him of his drinking problem. She and her husband, a doctor, ~ere getting a divorce, To the family of Kelvin A. Cook and to the brothers of Delta Chi Fraternity, we send our heartf~lt condolences on the passing of a beloved one. -The brothers of Sigma Chi- Arcade Electronics Why buy SONY when you can pay less for what ~eems to be the same product? SONY tv's have better reception than other sets, useful in all reception areas. This is especially evident in color sets. SONY _reliability is such that we guarantee all SONY f~r one full year, parts and labor, as oppossed to th~ standard ninety days. SONY customers come back smiling. Arcade Electronics * Proctor's Arcade Ph. 370-3680 .L .• ---- .f you're tired of slim Jims. break out in bags- that wond- erful styling with pleated. ·MAMA BIANCHI'S tunnel· waistband, wide flaring legsanddeepcutfs. From$10. RESTAURANT Lafayette· n35 Barrett s~. CLOTHES INC ltalltaUan . Food ·Cooked To Order 416 state We Cater To Students J' f • ' and wasn't it wonderful how this doctor, who knew about his wife and Alex, used his influence to get Alex admitted to the V.A. Hospital while others were being turned away? Alex couldn't help but hear Frank say that Barbara and the doctor both wanted the divorce, and were only using Alex as the third party to justify the divorce on grounds of adultery. Alex pretended not to hear this, and I did the same, and he showed me a scribbled letter that he'd spent all day composing for Barbara: \My Dearest Barbara, If anything happens to me, take care of things and remember that I love you with all my heart. I love you so very much that I know we will see each other in another world. I love you, Alex\ I asked Alex what he thought was going to happen to him, and he said that he was feeling sick from not drinking, and that he would have only one drink every four hours, just like medicine. If he didn't feel better soon, he would go back to the V.A. RESEARCH MATERIALS All Topics , Send for your deswptive. up to· dale. 128-page, mail order catalog of 2.300· - qualtly research papers Eru:lilse $1.00 to cover postage and handling. RESEARCH UNLIMITED 519 GLENROCK AVE., SUITE 203 LOS ANGELES, CALIF. 90024 (213) 477-8474 • 477-5493 \We need a local salesman·· Purity/sahel/a's t::::i:\ \;&~ s.._ \J:8I PHARMACY, INC. § ii Accuracy ~ ~ 527 Union St: ~ § Schenectady N.Y: § Ph. 370-2300 § WELCOME § & UNION STUDENTS ~ ~~<,Q>~c.Q><U>t.O NEWEST LUNCH For the best hot dogs and sauce in town. M-F 8 a.m.-2 a.m. Weekends 8 a.rn.-4 a.m. 374-5287 ._ The Friendliest Place' in Town OPEN TO l . a....:F~:I=ll • .-lllll~· SA;;.;.T;.;.. ---~ 715 Albany St. 346-9424 7 photo by Les Kernan Hospital. I couldn't think of anything intelligent to say to the man so I glanced at my watch and declared that it was time for me to leave. I rose, and realized that I'd never taken off my jacket - I guess I'd never planned to stay more than a few minutes. Two hours seemed like an awful long time to spend in poverty, and of course I knew that. for me, it was only temporary. I reached out my hand to Frank and he stabbed at it with his, and I thanked God that his disease hadn't made ~im miss. As Alex shook my hand,.'h~ told me that I may have changed his mind about McGovern. an·~ . asked me what I was paid for my, work. I told him that I was well · paid if I'd gotten another vote for McGovern, but I didn't really believe it myself. I've since abandoned the idea for a term paper on canvassing, and I doubt that Alex even voted, but I know those two hours weren't wasted. 1 can't explain exactly how, but I was well paid for my time. UD. Dave's Mens Shop 453 State St. (downtown Schenectady) THE OPEN DOORv Q:ya{it!f Boo£ Store- ~ bOOKs jfJr at( qges Ji 1.:;6 JAY STREET ~en .Mon:-Sai.-tJO:JO- 5:30 Thurs. tif( 9:(W J~ +.Jtb·Z-719 (Qme in· and browse 1 - ' . PRO.CTOR'S' THE.A.TER. . :J74 3308. : STAT~ ST .• SCHENECTADY · ]1'llr';:;:;:;:;:;;:;;;;;:;:;~:;:;:;:;:::;:;:;:;:;:;:;:;:;::E:;:;:;:;:;:::;:;:~jj:~· :::::: Nov. 16-22 :::::: I\: ~1~~~: ::r Butterflies i>': \: Are ·'.~ .. ·'.:· .. :_'_::. f~ t:: Free :-:: tt~::~::::::::::=:::::::~:::::::::::::::::\::::::::·:::::}~·:.:::::.JJ Nov. 22-2X Walt Disne~ 's Dumbo Legend of Lobo Nov. 29-Dec. 8 Bad Company ALFIE

8·. CONCORDlENSlS, Friday, November 17,1972 . - - ' ' . This Friday at 8:30 p.m., .the . Library hours duril).8 th~ Thanksgiving vacation; Wednesday, Nov. 22, 9 a.m.-5 · The local chapter of American , ',j' D_ ·· -~ '· Red Cross is trying to set up a .IJ, . U. Coli. Coffeehouse presents Tom Mitchell and Don \ Armstrong, and Victoria Garvey. Come and hear them ·in Old Chapel for the mere fee of 50q:·. If you behave, we~ll let you have free coffee and doughnuts. The Wizard of Oz performance scheduled for this Sunday has been cancelled due to illness in the cast. Sorry. See you in January. p.m. Thursday, Nov. 23, Closed Friday, Nov. 24, Closed Satur(iay, Nov. 25, Closed · Sl,l.nday, Nov. 26, 6 p.m.-11 p.m. group of reg\Qlar Friday blood. Continue. d from PaRe 1: donors t() go. to the Regional : ·• . . . . . . Center in Albany. All types of hts. m~anm~lessn:ess, lus P?wer, bl()od are urgently needed. If you Which Is. beyond comp.rehe~slon. can be a: donor, sign up with J,~. ~s well worth . s.eemg. ~ts Mrs. Snowden in the Dean of ·_appltcatl.Qn to us as cttlzens ~fa Students Office. If a sufficient mo~eJ:n world cannQt be demed. mimber of regl,l.lar donor_s The Mou~te?.anks hav~ done an ·volunteer, the Red Cross will exc:ellent Job )n. prodqcmg a ~laY provide transportation -to and ' wht?? !lhattenngly exemplifie~ from Albany. Since the interval o\rl!!h!ifelii!._• .. The John Fitzgeralq Kennedy School of Government of Harvard University announces a new graduate program in Public Policy. Ph.D., Master's, or joint Master's-professional school degrees offe.red. Applicants should be interested in policy analysis and be at ease in both the w0rld' of Words and the world of numbers. Write Dean Harry Weiner, Littauer Center, Harvard University, Cambridge, Massachus-etts. 02138 for cata1og and application. * * * * Levrs. Take a break from your· studying!! The Jewish Student Union at Skidmore College is planning a Chanukah party for December 2, (Sat. night), from 8.:00 p.m. until midnight. It will be held in Barett Center on the New Campus. There'll be music, dancing, and Israeli dancing, as well as refreshments. Union students ate invited to join in th¢ festivities.[ Hillel would Hke to get an idea of how many students would be 'interested in g 0 ing. Please cont~ct Mike Sachs at 370~ 4561 or 321 Davidson before Thanksgiving vacation! Join in the fun - phm on gQing!! (The AU Night Study will remain open when the library is closed throughout the weekend.) * * * * There will be a meeting of the Senior premedical and predental students on Monday, November 20, at 4:30 p.m. in Bailey Hall, Room 312. · This meeting is important, so please attend. · * * * * Course requests are due at the Office of the Registrat not later betwe~m <Jonations must be' eight · · · ' · · Weeks. a . consi<letable nt.J,I):lber of Marri~d Coupler volunteers will be needed to · furnish an adequate supply at the Center: · · Part~ Time Job Levrs than November 22nd. Dave's: Mens Sbop- * \* * * The International Relations . 453 State St. ·· Car~ for other peopJe!~ children ' or homes while on vacatio._~ Free r.oom !llid. •board, work a!l you . :want. .Mpst · have £ar, I child ·· ~ : .allowance. $100/week. Confaet . .355.831)5 anyti111e, 2 ~egina Dr~, · S!lhenectady •. Club will be sponsoring its (dQwntown Schenectady)__, second lecture of the year on ·r.•. . ... . ... u . ~~;;:;: ... ;!- :!·! .. :1· ..... ~-~- :;::;;.,~t):!:· =::;-~-· Tuesday evening, November 28, ... >rr · >r.- ~k >en: >II< - ... · \'_.·~···· .. ·***>~< Dave's. Mens Shop 453 State St. (downtown Schenectady) Pamphlets describing the .draft and lottery procedures are available for interested students. See . Miss Wemple in the Administration Building. at 7:30 in Old Chapel. The LAST PREPARATION speaker will be Donald B. ~-:· . T·h·e Westmore, currently the Special Law Board Review Center will be offering ~ Assistant to the Under-Secretary intensive review sessions in .preparation f<;>r the Law . • of State for Political Affairs. Mr. Sch<;>ol Admission Test taught by professionals at the · • • Westmore will speak and answer ·~-·: • Howard Johnson's in Latham. Enrollment js_ now open . ENGINEERS/ ARCHITECTS/CITY PLANNERS questions on American foreign for the December 16 LSA T. Review sessions begin ~ policy under the Nixon _: ._·.· .. WANTED 57 architects to design school~, hospitals, low cost housing, public works projects in Asia, Africa, Micronesia and South America. 65 city planners to assist local governments in fourteen countries. 6? civil engineers to construct dams, bridges, roads, waterworks,. irrigation systems etc. . Also industrial, mechanical, electrical, chemical engineers needed. The Peace Corps. Information and applications are at the Placement Office. Or call Jim Eckardt: 264~7124 FIVE ROOMS AVAILABLE FOR PARTIES AND BANQUETS Featuring Italian-American Cuisine mother :lerro ~ Reatauranl 1115 BARRETT STREET SCH~NECTADY,. ~._Y. FREE PARKING Tel 016-9554 or FR7·2642 OPEN 7 DAYS A WEEK Favored By The Union Athletic Teams! the cup A HANDSOME AND PRACTICAL GIFT FOR ALL OUTINGS Both hands are free with Towle;s new Tailgating Cup. Rawhide thong lets you hang Tailgating Cup around your neck for pre-game parties. Crafted in lead-free pewter by the Towle Silversmiths. Can be engraved beautifully with .initials or club insignia. Holds 16 oz. $15.00 Maurice B. Graubart & Sons 166 Jay St., 374-5404 Jewlers Downtown Schenectady administration. Althmurh Mr. ~ November 25. Call or write for details. Westmore is qualified to _rep- The Law Board Review Center of Albany resent and explain the Nixon . 8 p· s t GJ F 11 N y 12801 administration and aU its · me ·.tree ' ens a ' • • • · r · h' · · · b (518) 793 .. 6631 po Ictes, · IS expertise IS on . . .... . . . :::=:::::>ifK:==:- \ >Ck >rl< ~k 7>U< >Ito; . Some add1t10ns to the recent • • - ~ st~~~~!~o~~~~~=/~~~ f ~ Fr1., Sat., Sun. ov. 17, 18, 19 · t cornelia Jo!les ~t Exposi.tion Enterpri~ses ~ Bob Pflfferlmg t ; , changes for the Social : Presents Committee: f Dave Winnick replaces Kevin A ~ ' t Lois Brustman replaces f f Virginia Lyle f **** . t ~~ t ;f kh~ . _Lh1 § Travel Bureau w Sberato!l - Towne Hotet· Albany ~'ft ~· MoH~;~:ALL : Ex~ibi~s by ~eaders in : ~. ISJ ·B. arrett St. t . H-1-FI EqUipment ~-.:. 1 § · 346 - 3431 § f ENTERTAINMENT & · & · No Sen,:~_·e\'- Ch_a:!:~-.~~ !+· . . . :· ~--...__, • ..., ._.._i PRIZES DAILY! ~ DIAMOND ENGAGEMENT .• ADM .. ISSION $2.00 • ' al WEDDING RINGS f ' .3,G0t rinc selections in all s' 0 OFF H I st7les at 50% diScount .to f ~. C rJi~T AD~ ~ , • ..... staff, and faculty •• ,, ~ r, ~ . direct ftoal leaclinc IIWiufacturer ··ill: - ~- -~ · UN! SAVE! ·Yl ant SJ79, ~- . . · : ~~-=~~:~~ ;::::. ., .-:...,._.;_ --~-- . ---~ -~ .... ~ N.J.-17t~- .. _ . fc~. Larry 2ide . leonard 'feldman t MCAT-DAT-GRE ljV ~::::::R !e<::7:\~~: .. :U _JJ LSAT-A_TGSB .t .,. :Tl OCAT . ·.t t SEMINARS ON: . : N . ·A·r·L • B OS • t Introduction to Hi Fidelity Components l (noon and at 4 p.m.) f · • Preparationtortestsrequiredfor .lAL:c::::t Rock a;nd Pop Sound Conc~rts =~~r!:~C::.:radoateandprofe&- ' 1 1\...V (12:45 and at 5:30p.m.) • Six and twelve session·courses f • Small groups · • .• • Voluminous material for home stud'll. '· pre!)ared by experts in each field · f *Lesson schedule can be tailored to . Favorites and Classical Sound Concerts f meet individual needs. lessons • r . . t can be spread over a peri9d of · (2: 15 and at 4:45 p.m.) several· months to a year, or for out of town students. a period · Live Group (MICA from NYC) A r- of one week . ' •Opportunityforreviewofpast. (3:00 and at 8:00p.m.) • lessons via tape at the cen.ter Q . d A p . d ~-- .· .. · t uestaon an nswer eno Special CompaetCoursesduting ,. (6:15 and at 7:.15 p.m.) Weekends - lntersesions Summer s•ons t Over 25 Leading STANLEY H. KAPLAN ·• M~n.uraeturenwiube . . • • EDUCATIONAL CENTER LTD. Exllibitine The Very Latese Nov.l6- 3-10.3.0 p.m. . • · ~ in HI·Fi C11mponencs. 17- 10 a.m..t0:30 p.m. 1616·l·on. 16tt1S-. I·Braolclyn,N.Y u· . . . . .:. 1·0 1030 ~ Ev!!ry.thinJIFIIr Tile 18- . _a.m.• : p.m. I. ~;;;~~Cltle:·.:·u.~: .. 1-k- ~-~~.d_.·.us.i ~:-. __ .··~- 10 ~- i.p: ... __ ._· .. 4_ .·_I:,i :Tile TllioriJtt Sclbol witlllh~ Nati<JAwich Repu141i0ft J~ ..._.,.. ._. ..,..,... ..,.,.,.,- -· -# Four Cha-nnel Sound (1 :30 and at 5:30 p.m.)

power, b.c:msion. Its zens of a e denied. done an a PlaY les children ' Free HI! you. 1 child Confaet • Dr~, · founded at Union College in 1877 Vol. 102, No. 18 Wednesday, _November 29, 1~72 20 cents ... Union. Book 1972 Good Porttfolio, Bad Yearbook Despite The Pitfalls, Dean Beam Stays On by C. ELLIOTT BARDSLEY For the past week I have been perusing the 1972 Uni()n Book to acquire some impressions about it. I found myself in the perplexing situation of not · understanding the purpose of the .\Book\ and therefore allowed several students, faculty, and alumni to review my copy and to comment on it. Their opinions concutrecf with my own. The 1912·· Union Book is a beautiful portfolio of fine, if not excellent, photographs. But it is not a. yearbook. It is not a book which records or depicts via images or impressions the life of Union College during the academic year 1971-72. I feel that a critical analysis of the 1972 Union Book -is in ordet since may people are disappointed by the Book. $20,000.00 of student funds were allocated for what promised to he a .. yearbook\ and turned out not to be one. face is obscured. ·Whether or not one is a sport enthusiast, he kneW of Jim, and it is unfair to him and to the community not to present Jim and the team in a more worthy fashion. Not only the photographs, but also the articles are poor in their representation of life at Union. Ea'<h article is very personal and , one-sided. Generally, they -depict Union as an apathetic, racist, and sexist school. Why are there no articles relating other. views of the school? Wl;lether or not the statements of these authors are true, it is the editor's responsibiiity to present an objective view of the College through articles and pictures. Thus, this Book is subjective. It presents a small facet of Union life as seen by one clique .of people. I wish I could be more enthusiastic, but perhaps we can learn something from this •• bk\'d . year oo an create a more responsible yearbook this year. This means everyone must take part in some manner. You can't expect a yearbook to be universal if only three or four unassisted members of the staff compile it. If you are concerned and· want to contribute contact the co-editors, John Ludwig or William Gores, at the Student Activities Office. by BARB DEWEY When women came to Union, a woman coincidentally became Assistant Dean of Students. The Administration's concern for the well-being of the new co-ed was only outdone by its choice of mentor. Our confidante was a recent graduate of a women's itr', college ... probably not unfamiliar with the Union campus. As assistant to Dean of Students Edward J. Malloy, Sheila Beam was effective but hardly as infamous as she was to become after replacing Paul Bryant in the Housing Department. Stories of ineptness and confusion within Mrs. Beam's office are the basis of _late-night bullshitting across the land. In desperation (the Student Center is closed, . Film Haps is on vacation) some card will retell the one about Mrs. B's reaction to the squirrel break-'in, or about the time she .gave a potential co- ed a tour of dormitories ... tastefully displaying . the carpeted singles in North and surprisedly finding Richmond's cement- blocked doubles locked and .un- enterable. . Okay. We've heard them all,, and so what? So, it's about time we discovered the real Beam. Look for some consistency in her publicized madrtess and reveal it, DEAN SHEILA BEAM photo by Jeff Weilburg or expose her inherent good- through President Martin, who, natured competence and defend when asked whether he felt this it. A dif:ficult task, and one which was a problem, indignantly said ·I have not been able to conclude he failed to see why there should in three weeks. My intention - be any direct communication,. or of necessity ~. is to accomplish even what Admissions had to do the job in two parts. The first with the Housing problem. Mrs. (here) will concern the view from Beam did not consider the the \to~.\ connection between herself and Having heard the consistently the people across the hall of any dubious opinions of feHow consequence either. Finally, and students,my first inclination was gallantly, President Martin took to find out if there was any j the blame (\If anyone should ... \) comparnble aversion to Mrs. for the present insufficient Beam witliin the Administration. housing. When picking the Book up, one is immediately aware that the book is tQo large to comfortably cany about. or to store. So, what does opi;: do with it? Secondly, there is nothing on the cover to ~esignate _wh~t , t~i.s ~onstrosity ts. Further mvestlg::ttlori on a serni-tech.incal level, reveals that the paper is the highest quality to be founa and that most photographs occupy less tha.Q. half the surface area. I find this disturbing for two reasons. It's an outright wast~ of paper and money and the great white pages dwarf the pictures, making it difficult to appreCiate the images being presented. Lastly on the technical aspect, the printer's reproduction .of photographs is poor. The darkness of the prints is irritating and may be due to a requested double printing. These items subtly affect the overall image and. expression of the book. The Complexity of. Student Files Admi.n ist ra tors are quite All things considered, it's reluctan~ to express opinions indefensible to give total concerBing anything connected responsibility for what happened with their employment. It's to any one office or person. True, understandable. When the hint of Union has never had a Housing opinion escapes, it is inevitably shortage before this year, but the preface<! or followed by the Housing Office is not all that has phrase, \I'd rather you didn't changed. Four points were quote :me on this\ the trials of mentioned again and again as public life. Knowing what Lois factors contributing to the Lane '\Vould .do in a similar problem. l) Co-ed living has situatia.n, I shall respect their made campus housing more wishes. attractive. 2) The attrition rate of Aesthetically, the book deviates· from the purpose of a yearbook. There is no continuity in the placing of photographs. Some sections present a view of campus life but are constantly interrupted by fine photographs which are unrelated to Union. These prints contribute little, if anything, to an overview of Union life. Many of these photographs seem to be displayed only because of their artistic quality; and they are unable to .communicate to the average yearbouk reader. Each photograph should convey a situation to which each member of the college community can relate in the years to come. For example, Jim Tedisco, our basketball ace, was the key figure on campus last . winter. Only one action picture of him ~ppears in the book (p. 135),. and in this photograph his by PAT BOHEN A bureaucracy without files is -a little like Santa without his red suit. File~ are what keep the bureaucrats warm on cold nights, and without them, no one could identify one of the fold. One wouldn;t think that a place the size of Union would have as many files as I found in my investigation. I'm convinced that anyone who is important here has at least one file folder, and probably more. In the words of Acting Provost Willard Enteman, you've got to file everything in a bureaucracy or you're accused of being inefficient. Hence, the more you file, the more efficient a bureaucrat you are. He calls it \packratting and finds himself saving much more now that he is head \rat\. Concerning the student files, the subject of my investigation, you may be happy to know that. we've got some of the most .efficient packrats right here at Union. These people are such efficient hoarders that the ceiling ·of the .Administration Building · may actually collapse under the weight of the files stored in the attic. As far as anyone knows, FINAL EXAMINATION SCHEDULE CORRECTiONS Wednesday, December 6, 9.:00-11:00 A.M. add Political Science ll (American Political System) - SS1l2 Prof. W. Daniels · · Tuesday, December 5, 2:00-4:00 P.M. change Math 12 (section 2) to BH 102- Prof. Torngll 'Monday, December 4, 2:00-4:00 P.M. change CS 130 to BH 207 - Prof. Craig Thursday, December 7, 9:00-ll :00 A.M. delete CE 20 ~Prof. Male . '. . these attic files may date back to the turn of the. century. l'rn starting at the end of the trail, however; so . let me backtrack and begin where the files themselves originate. in the Office of Admissions. And before I do that, let me give you some background. This investigation resulted from student and faculty rumblings about the misuse of student files. I set out to discover what a student file is, where it is kept, who has access to it, and numerous other questions that cropped up along the way. I -want to stress that this is a fact-finding report, and is in no way an expose. Of course, I have my .own private opinion, but beware that I am not trying to place any type of judgment on the system in the name of truth, justice, or anything else. If you thought you were reading a ri proaring article telling you what to think and how to think it, you'll find no such spoonfeeding here. I've compiled the information, but th.e responsibility for a reasonable conclusion rests with you, the reader. The student file begins in the Admissions Office. When you begin to investigate Union as a prospective college, they begin to inspect you as a prospective st11d·ent. Specifically, the Admissions file inciudes a formal application, a secondary school transcript. recommenoaiiai1~ from guidance counsellors, an optional personal interview report; a parent's confidential financial statement, reports on SAT's anc:l ACT's and anything else the student wishes to submit. . Continued on Page 4 Alas.. unarmed with quotes, women students is relatively perhaps I cannot convince you of unknown and therefore difficult anythir:tg. The consensus was to estimate. 3) Schenectady has a neither one of conviction nor very low vacancy rate of 6% acquittal. lt's possible to assume, (normal is J5m20%), which makes in the absence of compliment, off-campus housing hard to find. that insult is intended 4) Former Students Returning particularly when a person's (FSR's) are always late in position inhibits negative notifying the college of their comment. Assumption, however intentions, hence the size of the is neither ·practical nor' housing problem was not really commendable in this situation. known until mid-August. There has been far too much of The .guilt for the overcrowding it. There are several points that is readily admitted and shared by were repeatedly brought to my several administrators, and none attentkm and that consistency expects the problem to exist after can be tny only basis for truth. January. According to Mrs. (But ~~rr::y, what about the third Beam, there are only 29 \fifth witness?) Enough bullshit, men\ of the original 60 (they thougt:a I thought it might be should syndicate an adventure interes1ing. series), and all have been offered The collegiate question of the rooms elsewhere. \I'd like to term, as fa,r as Dean Beam is make a little wager with you ... \ considered, has been: Why did remarked· Harold Martin, .. when she put five men in four-man we offer these 5th men rooms a suites? As it turns out, she didn't lot of them are going to say, 'no put then there and cannot be thanks, we want to stay where we blamed for the overcrowding. are.\' Discusslo.n with the Admissions <;ontinued on Page 3 Office, .President Harold C. Martin, and Mrs. Beam led almost n<Jwhere because there is · no answer t<> the question of responsibilty for the problem. Thr!:t different people in , Admissions suggesied, i!~ a rea~o.n f<>r the overcrowding, a defmtte lack of communication between their Office and the Housing Office. The process of relaying Information from one office t<l the other is done . This is Concordy's last issue of the Fall Term. We will resume publication on Friday, Januar)' 5, 197~ (hopefully). Deadline for that first issue of . !!!e Winter Term will be '7 P.M. on Thursday, jaiiiiil;'J 4: • at the spa,eious Concordy office above Old Chapel in StoUer Hall. · A Merry Christmas to one and all.

2 CONCORDIENSIS, Wednesday, November 29; 1972 Letters To the Editor: I should like to begin by commending Concordiensis and its reporter, Tim Cain, for a responsible and careful job of reporting on a complicated situation: recent actions with respect to tenure. Tim did make one statement which, while perfectly accurate, could be subject to misinterpretation. He siad that I concurred with the decision made with respect to Professors. Berk and Potts. It is true that I concur with the decision as a fair and consistent decision in the light of the new ground rules worked out by a joint faculty-student-trustee committee and accepted by the Trustees to replace the \60% tenure-rule.\ However, I do not concur with the ground rules; I have not concurred with them from the first time they were proposed. I did not concur with the \60% tenure~rule\ and I still do not concur with it. On two separate occasions, once in my first year at Union, and, again, last year, in my second year, I tried to lead the junior faculty to propose what I considered more optimal alternatives. The junior faculty did not agree with me. On a number of formal and informal · occa~ions, I tried to persuade people to consider other alternatives. On a number of occasions, I referred to the new ground rules as a system of replaceing a de jure tenure limitation system with a de facto one. I opposed the new ground rules as (in my. opinion less optimal than the \60%-rule.\ I oppose the \60%-rule\ as less optimal than other alternatives. The Berk-Potts cases confirm, for me, those positions. Nevertheless, my arguments were not found persuasive. The joint committee r·ecommended otherwise, and t.!;lat recommendation was accepted. These are problems and principles on which grown people can disagree; I harbor no grudges toward the committee. I intend to go ahead and carry out their recommendations and the Trustee decisions. I do admit to disappointment that apparently some of the previously silent majority ,on campus contines to seek solace in numbers by declaring that I sold out. Before receiving tenure, I agreed to give up my candidacy to tenure if that would help move us toward a more reasonable solution; I also agreed that, if given a tenure appointment, I would allow the CoHege to revoke mY tenure if that would move us toward a more reasonable solution. My hope was, of course, that a sufficient number of others would agree likewise and that we might begin· a viable search for alternatives. My offer still stands, and those who wish to mount personal sell-out charges can live With theif own consciences. In any organization, there are those who like to \personalize\ disputes. They would rather attack persons· than consider principles. A difficulty witrh decision-making in which there is committee participation is that those who like te attack people do not get their pound of flesh. A further difficulty with committee decisions is that committees, almost by nature, are non- responsible instrumentalities. I have a recommeqdation here: since I concur (within the caveat supplied previously) with -the decision not to appoint these ad hoc committe'es, hold me responsible and work out your wrath on me. Leave other people alone, and please do not mount your ad hominem attacks on them. One educational function of administration may be t_Q. aid in the growth of those who cannot see beyond personalization to a consideration of principles. Briefly, I should like to turn· to a review of the situation, so that those who wish to argue with me on principles can know what my position is. As I understand the situation, the Trustees had passed a regulation which required that no more than 60% of the faculty could ;be.. on tenure. In response to the reactions on campus, it was agreed that a joint student-faculty-trustee committee CONCORDI_ .. ra••lled at Union CCJIIect i111177 . Editor-in-Chief ............................. (;eorge Bain News Editor: ................................ Ti~ <:ain Associate Editot ......................... Mattbew S'Wartz Managing Editors ........................ Rita Morandi Jim Rostenber~ Jo,'caturcs Editor··.· .......................... AI Reisch Sports Editor. .............................. Bruce Batchelder Photo Editors .............................. l.es Kernan .Jeff Weilbur2 Husincss Mamt~cr .................... : ... Michael J. Hurley Nat:ionaf Advertising ................... Stephen KeDy Suh!olcriptions: ....... ~ ...................... Mike Bernstein El(ccutiw Editors ........................ l•eter Dickerman Louis Barash Pat Bohen Frank DeLucia Steven Krakauer Judy Dein Marty Sherman Paul Connors Tom Conley Don Hamerman Fred lucas Roll Silx Debbie Glasser . l.ouis S. Snitkoff CONCORDY STAFF Ray Faught BiH Erichson Jim Smith Brian Lewis Stewart Abramson Robin Waring Scott Reiter Malcolm Snowden Nelson Wei! Larry Wharton Billy DeBear Scott Burns Francesco Isgro Phyllis R. edelman Gail GI)Odman Robert Shugoll Mark Mindel Bill West RonAin~ Phil Alcabes Dave Strom Woody Lauer Doug £arpenter David Wagenknecht Andy Pearce ont\ordlcnsl\ .j, puhblwd c\L'I\ lue,d.JI <I lid I nd.11 du1i11!! till' ,dh><•ll\<\al c\o:,·pt dunn)! '\\dllllnall and 1 ,,,.,111<>11 1\''\\1' h1 th,· ,rutknt hod I ol l 111<>11 CulkJ!e. ~ch,·Jwd.idl. ·'\ \ '\.rt•••nal .tdl ,.,,,,,IIJ! lcptc,,·,it,Jtlle. '\.Jtl<>ll<d I duralu•n;d \dlt•lti,IIIJ! Sc111n'. Inc·. (\ l'uf>h,h,·•' Rq,\·\·nl.!lliC. \atu>nal I duo:ati<>IWI \d1crt ''we Sci\\K<\. In<·. \ \ C I dlhliJ.Ii OiiJ<·,-. 01,1 (i~m. l'nt<Hl C<•lk~e f'uhhc·at•o,; (-lllln·. II~<· .ln11,1J \\,,!ld l'uhh,·athlll,. 7\1 Stat,· Strec·t. Sdwne.-wd~. '\. \ 1~.107 .. 14(•-2.15('. lnr,·r·:~! ::> i'•w ~dl<'tll-rl,ldl Jl,,..,r nffll'l~ it' St:C('tlld <_\~~!~\: ~!;ii: ;jatlel.~uh~rup1wn ~(I LC'nl' ,,,:up~. SX ll ~c:ut c.!~!h{r'\<i an.~v.hcn· 111 th«.~ l'niiL'd Stall'\ l>cadlm~ i·nr all cop~.\\ hidl\lllll't h<• I~ p,•tf <I lid d<>ll.nk•·>i'iiO:~d. I> ' p.n1. •Ill ~onda) and fhur~da~ a1 th~ fottrord' ,,f!,,·,•. ahllll' OILI Chapd. Olfice.rclcphnnc numner '' .170-~1:;5. hlltlil<' ••tli.-c I' nnl~ 111 '\'. nn \l,>ndal and 1 hursda) m[!hl>. 1-t~r all cditnrial maucr, . ..:all lh<' ,·dunr-•n-dlll'i at .N.l- 1640: tor inlormatiun cull Student 1\cti' iliL'' Ollb· til J?0·6·11S. · should be created to consider ~lternatives artd to develop an appropriate system designed to deal with the .problems at hand. That committee recommended a new set of ground rules and those ground rules were accepted by the Trustees. Without detailing all the procedures which ·are to be followed under the ground rules, the objective seemed clear: to allow a degree of flexibility to be introduced so that the \60% rule\ need not be applied mechanistical1y. In considering any specific situation(s), two questions must be raised: ( l) Is there \room\ for any person ~ apart from his or her merits - to receive a tenure appointment in the department in question? {2} Should an ad hoc committee he formed for the particular person in question? Let me deal with these conditions separately. With respect to the determination of .. room,\ the new ground rules did allow some flexibility. In the first place, they allowed for a Limit calculation. spread over three years, inste;.:<! of annually. The ground rules are not precise (their virtue was Sl.lpposed to lie in their flexibility), and I may misinterpret them, but whether or not I do has little bearing on the recently publicized cases. Does )lnyone seriously believe that the ground rules were meant to be so flexible that they would aHow a relatively large department to become 90% or I 00% tenured for substantially more than three years? If so, 1 have never heard the case\ presented, and while I like to think I can still ·learn, I must admit that I shall view such a case with incredulity. The prima facie negative case seems to me so strong thqt 1 see no way to overcome ··it. If Department X is to be allowed 100% tenure, why not Departments Y and Z and .... But then we are back to the pre- 60% rule days, and, surely, that was not the joint committee's recommendation. (Admittedly, some people have argued with~ me that, grQund rules aside, Professors Berk and Potts should be granted tenure, but they only then join me in opposition to the ground rules. I warned in my interview earlier this year with . Tim that under the new system fully qualified people would be denied tenure. Perhaps now that an additional number of people see that, a new assessment of the situation would be in order (though I should admit to some. sympathy with Trustee impatience if that should emerge). Foresight is, apparently, rtot our long suit; the ''crunch\ came with the first opportunity for the application of the new ground rules.) On the issue of the formatior of an ad hoc committee, the ground rules are not as helpful, and one has to use some. common sense. I should say, however, that if it is known beforehand that there is no \room\ for some candidate, an ad hoc committee should not he formed. the notion of forming a committee to consider an issue already decided seems to me senseless. As anyone who has served on such a committee can testify, the work involved is extensive if the job is well done. I have serious doubts as to whether I could even have gotten eight senior faculty to serve on such functionless committees. I admit some people disagret: with me on the issue as ·:to \\7hether ad hoc committees should be formed, and l do not question ,their intentions, but I think they 'are wrong. (I should restate that I put this in the first person to give focus for those who wish tp fj~ht. The decision was made by a~ elected committee of the faculty - ironically one on whiah I do not have a vote and on · Which I did not vote .. However, l conc1,1r Vfith tl,le decision, and I , know the frustrations o{ fi?hting .with the a111811l]f1Dil.lt ot ~ ~m.mittee.) ' In conclusion, l should like tci point out that, in my opinion,. the real source of the problem lies in the AAUP principles devised in 1940. Those principles were designed to work in the interests of education, faculty, and colleges. It seems to me that now,· more than 30 years later, they no longer satisfy any of those intenests and that they are in need of substantial revision,. Surely, the Trustees desire to have the college retain sufficient flexibility to make curricular changes as legitimate student interests change, is not an irrational desire. Surely, my desire (shaFed by others, I assume) that faculty be hired, promoted, and Fetained on the basis of their merit (asuming a student needll their services), is not an irrational desire. Yet, within the 1940 principles, and the 1970 higher education environment, those desires are in inevitable conflict. In my opinion, it is there that the root of the problem lies·. As long as we allow AAUP -to set the constraints, conflict is inevitabl~. ~ut -. I repeat - that is my opinion; it was not persuasive to a sufficient number previously. Personally, I should like to have Union, once· again, become an educational pacesett.er, but Union's institutional (and undeserved) inferiority complex inakes that difficult p if not impossible. ' WiHard F. Entem~n Acting Provost To the Editor; Students at Southern University in Baton Rouge, Louisiana had been demonstrating for several weeks for improved living conditions, better food, broader programs of Black Study and the resignation of Dr. Netterville, the schoors President. On November 16; approximately 300 students were organ.i;z:ed outside the Administration Building when Continued on Page 7 Peter Pan, Silly Man by MATTHEW SW ~RTZ When you and I were kids, are saying, Coach, is, 'who\gf'ves a there was always someone who damn about the · ave rage .had the very best of everything basketballer? If Jimmy T. wanted the group .needed, He had the to play, would he be posed with a pro-style football you somehow similar impasse? Or Billy the coUld throw more accurately and Kid? Or that Rain:rnaker people further than those cheap rubber will scream and yell about during ones, a softball bat that you hit the winter? .Is there any wonder for the circuit with · every game, that the traditional dichotomy and a basketball with seams and between the athlete participating a grip so positive you could in inter-college sports and. those almost palm it. But this guy was limited to the less intense intra- worthless. You couldn't even co11ege sports, persists? No, there trust him to count to three is no wonder at all because the alligator on the defensive line. differences in how they are We all knew his line, though; \If treated are more o-bvious, you want to play with my nowadays, than the actual football (bat, basketball), you animosity. have to play by my rules.\ No A ·perfect example that will explanation; nothing could ever illustrate all this happened change his mind. Well, we've aH recently. We were involved in a grown up now and these damn half-court game, kn'dwihg- ·.that .kids still haunt us. Only at this the freshman team would take late date they have fall guys so the court at four. that gave us you can't deal directly with them. ten minutes. No, that gave us 'no A group of us tried to play minutes ·because their Coach said basketbal1: one Saturday \Now!\ As if this were not bad afternoon, bored to tears with enough, we sat and watched the the football game. FiFst, we •ran frosh shoot lay-ups, a drill into some toothless cretin at the requiring only half the court, for door to the locker rootn. Sorry, the first half-hour of the practice, he said, nobody .can use the gym .. and listen to their mentor discuss during the football game. · the finer points of bounce \Why?\ we asked naively, trying passing for another quarter-hour. to hide our anger but knowing in I'm not splitting hairs because advance that our case was lost. the crux of this argument is that He didn't know, of course, and ·when, at ten to four, one of the told us to see the coach. guys 1 was playing with tried to Coach, sir, respected man reason with Scanlon; ·he got the whose basketbaU teams have lost same answer we all got from the only six in the two years since toothless cretin-guard on the day we've been blessed with you and of the football·game. · ' '·: · wtie seems to personify for It's like the little fa:t kid 'Liseo to Union the ideal jock~intellectual say, \If you want to play with my a Ia his past team-mate Bradley, equipment, you play by my why can't we play basketball rules.\ I find myself resigned· to today? \I don't make policy, the. same rational~ ·f8fl'i{his you'll have to speak to Coach stupidity now as I· .. \.vaS'~ 'then; Allison.\ But Coach Allison is \boys will be boys.\ If Peter Pan knee-deep in mud, guiding the really didn't want to grow up, he gridders. \Like I say, I don't should have considered a career make policy.\ What you really as a basketball coach .. . . Winter Term elasses wiU begin at 8~30 A.M. on Wednesday, January 3rd. Student sGhedu1es will be distributed to college addresses prior to the beginning of classes. Students who do not receive a copy of their class schedule will be able to secure a;copy at the Alumni Gymnasium at 8:00A.M. ·on the first day of classes. Formal registration and validation of I.D. cards will take place in the Gymnasium on Thursday and Friday, January 4 and 5, from · 8:45 to 11:30 A.M. and from 1:00 to 4:00P.M. Students should report as follows: Last N arne lteport A - E Thursday morning F - K Thursday afternoon L - R · Friday morning S - Z Friday afternoon · Students may report at a time other tha:n above should classes interfere. Schedules will not be made available nor registration permitted if a student has not settled his winter ·term bil1 and · any ·other outstanding indebtedness to the College. The Business Office will handle late payment of term bills and resolve billing problems in the Placement Office, located between \Psi Upsilon Fraternity and Lamont Rouse. · · -· · Completion of and changes in schedules will 'be handled at the Gyrilnasium Wednesday through Friday, January J!S,\artci \Moildai and Tuesday, January s· and 9, fr'om 8:45 A.M.' to 4:oo. P:M., · except for the noon hour. Tuesday, !anuary 9, is th~ l~s~ d;:tY. for · making schedule adjustments. , · - · . _ : • · • . · ''Pass-Fail'' recju~sts may ·~e filed :duiinif the· first three w~e·k~' ~f . the term.. The deadline iS Jaauwy 24t\1. · · · · • . . . _II-' \. . <:11 li ':

as the is my sive to have an but (and not been weeks of r 16,\ were the when n a a the eople uring there the are Ol,lS, will m a take us said bad the drill for use that to the the day to my to en; Pan , he j -- ~--~- CONCORDIEN$/S, We4nesday, November 29, 1972 3 Bernhardt Le·arns ·How ... T'o lmp.ress Lena . by JOHN PERLSTEIN · Bob Bernhardt, the pride of Rochester a11d . one of Union College's own (own what?), took a step into the world of show business on November 18 when he played a \guest set\ at Caffe Lena in Saratoga Springs. It wasn't quite as easy as it sounds, for to earn the privilege of playing at such a prestigious coffeehouse, a performer must first drift in Purgatory a:nd then pass through the gates of Hell, that is, he must audition for Lena.· Bob underwent thi~ ordeal at the end of October. Taking along a few friends for moral support, Bob stepped into the modest interior of the famous coffeehouse and was greeted by the imposing figure of Ms. Spencer and a warm \Who are you?\ After making ·all of the introductions, Bob asked Lena what she wanted him to do. \Do w4at • :you do,\ she said without the slightest hint of a smile. Apparently, Lena had been subjected to many auditions and had not. been impressed by the majority of them. She was obviously expecting the worst and did nothing to h i d e her expectations. Through the first two songs, Lena did the finest impression .of Buster Keaton that I have ever seen. At the end of the third song, she abruptly stood up and left the room. She later explained · that she is very nervous and cannot sit in one place for too long, but, at the time, it did not come across as a wa,rrn or encouraging gest\,\re. When she returne<L ~ob pl~yed \Dream· Loyer,\ a Bobby be if Lena didn't remember Bob. Everyone got a good laugh out of this ridiculous thought. We entered Caffe Lena, walked up the stairs, and heard !Uany voices, including quite a few from Union. Bob relaxed a little, knowing that there would be familiar faces in the audience. He walked to~ards Lena and smiled at her. She looked him straight in the eye and said \Do you have a reservation?\ We were all stunned, but Bob recovered quickly, and flashed some of the razor-sharp wit which has made him such a favorite at Union. \Uh no, we don't,\ he quipped, thinking quickly. Fortunately, Lena did eventually remember him and told him that he wo'!lld b.e playing the third set of the evening. Bob finally came on ai 11: 15 p.m. and proceeded to \do what pltoto by Bill Erichson he does.\ He told a few jokes at the outset, which seemed to relax b6th him and the audience, and played several numbers on the guitar, including much original material. Throughout the set, I concentrated on watching the reactions of those members of the audience who were not from Union. The response seemed to be overwhelmingly positive, even after Bob made a slight error on a complicated piano number. Although Bob was not at his absolute best, he far out-ctassed the other two· acts on the bill, both in performing talent and writing skill. Lena. was tpo busy to speak to Bob at the end of his set, but she did say that she . would be, in touch with J;tim. Ms. Spencer does not say things io · make people feel good, so apparently Bob has not seen the last of Caffe Lena. Record Review Grab-Bag by ROBERT SHUGOLL TOULOUSE STREET (Warner Bros. :SS 2634), The Doobie · Brothers If it's true that you can't keep a good band down, then the Doohie Brothers should .soon be rating a front page photo in Rolling Stone. The group combines most of the elements of ~ood rock ~ their rhythm, instruments, vocals, and arrangements are all irresistibly well blended - making them one of the best new rock groups to emerge in 1972. Side one of Toulouse Str~et keeps on the light side of rock, including Listen to the Music, the bouncy single which is bringing their music to the public ear, and four other tunes which all have the potential · for being successful singles. The Doobie Brothers pack a giant amount of good music into three-minute songs, but after a while you'd like to hear them break out a little. Perfect! On side two they immediately expand on the basic themes of the songs, and the oft-heard comparison of the group to the Allman Brothers starts making perfect sense. The band, consisting of two guitarists, a bass-man, and two drutpmers, shines instrumentally, and guitarists Tom Johnston and Pat Simmons zip out wailing leads with a fervor that awakens memories of Duane Allman and Dicky Betts. The versatility of the Doobie Brothers can be heard in Jesus is ,Just Alright. They make the tune move more than . the Byrds ever did, putting fine vocals. second in attraction to the instrument- playing. Where the Byrds end, the Doobies take off, slowing the melody to a blues pace and then ~oaring with guitar rjffs. This is a t:ine album, and from the ap'])arent talent involved, the Doobie Brothers should get even better in time. FRESH (Capitol ST-11 • ..~), Raspberries The Raspberries are an affront to professional music. A group of four light-rockers from Cleveland, they play corny songs about lonely people meeting and being groovy and so fort-h. Their sound is reminiscent of junior- high bands imitating the Beatles, holding one chord or exploiting simple progressions that we've heard .so many times before. One point in the band's favor is the catchiness of their tunes, which is why the American public will continue to eat t·he Raspberries up. But once you've listened to the numbers more than once, they begin to lose all impact and go the way of many overplayed commercial hits, never to be heard again. Consider the opening\ lyrics of the LP, on a song entitled I wanna Be With You \Jf we were older we wouldn't have to be worried tonite, Baby Oh! I wanna be with you. Oh yeah .... Well tonite's the night We always knew it would feel so right So come on baby. I just wanna be with you Mmmmm!\ FOR THE ROSES (Asylum SD 5057) J oni Mitchell , Darin, plassic, which brought a smil~ from Lena. Wonder· of wonders, her face did not crack!! After a few more songs, Lena said. that she. was jmpressed with Bob's voice and his overall talent and would like him to play a guest set on the 18th of November, as a possible prelude to a booking in January. ·rrends in Fraterni.ties J oni · Mitchell has come out with anotht:r beautiful album, her first, on the Asylum label. A marvelous follow-up to her last Reprise record, Blue, (MS 2038), Joni maintains her 'ffiellow mood and touches on her usual diversity of earthy subjects that hit hQme for many of us. Her appeal lies in the smooth delight of her voice and the sensitivity she carries with it. Above all, Joni is a poetess whose talent goes far beyond the execution of a melody. On each tune she paints a different, yet moving, picture of simple scenes with speci~l emphasis on the thoughts which propel the scene's action. In Barangrill we hear of an obsession over a waitress who seems to be enlightened, only to come to the realization of how foolishly the mind can deceive. She also makes vivid use of symbolic messages, as on You Turn Me On, I'm A Radio, on · Naturally, Bob was happy to accept, and over the next few weeks, he thought a lot about what songs he would play in his 30-minute set. As of 8 p.m. on the night of the 18th, he still hadn't decided, so on the way up to Saratoga, he received advice from several trusted friends. .. Play a lot of oldies.\ \No stay away from that and do your own stuff.\ \Don't use the piano.\ \No~ split the time between the ~itar and the piano.\ .. Use the 1\-stqng guJtar.\ \No use the 6 string,:• Nat1.1rally, npthing was agreed on, so Bob decided that he'd play a little of everything and see what happened. Just before reaching Lena's, someone mentioned how funny it would by PHYLLIS EDELMAN' Those days of panty raids and treasure hunts in moonlit cemeteries·. are over for fraternities. To those who think that hazing days are still in vogue, let them be assured that those days are a thing of the past. Mark Johnson of Sigma Phi, Secretary- Treas,urer of the Interfraternity Council, has said that the Houses have \toned down\ their rushing a\tivities and have not \over~pressured\ freshmen. The result of this has been an upswing of first-rush pledges as of the first bid on November 7th. Ninety-three bids were made, eighty-four of which were matched by fraternity houses. Not seeing this upswing as any particular trend for the future, Mark feels this is just due to a basic attitudinal change of this year's freshmen class towards fraternities. The increase in \ pledges is just part of the up and down cycle fraternities have seen. Asked if any women put in fraternity bids, Johnson said four or five had. Their requests, however. were not taken particularly seriously. Fraternities, as far as Johnson sees them, are \male-oriented organizations not geared to attract women.\ He admits that it is really up to each house and its brothers as to whether women will be initiated. Dispelling rumors that fraternity members just want to drink beer and carouse all the time, Johnson sees fraternity membership as an acceptance of Reporting on Dean Beam required hetore, but that may be Contin~ed from Page 1 because it was never necessary So, over-population aside, before. Occassionally, people. what about Hickok House, occupy some rooms during the uninformed freshmen, summer and extra furniture gets orientation, and co-ed living? in the way. And what about last Spring's Mrs. Beam felt the request ultimatum of short notice from Maintenance was concerning refrigerators and reasonable and issued the anti- furniture? Mrs. Beam contends dorm-storage , proclamation four that relations between days before Finals. Storage space maintenance and students have in dorm basements was sought definitely improved as a resUlt of but not found. Maintenance the ordinance to empty rooms donated one hand-truck to aid last June 1. (You will notice how the ~tudent-movers. Any the maintenance man runs right furniture left in the rooms was over a mere two weeks after the demolished. Not sold, given away radiator explodes... with a or kept ... demolished. The sante flashlight) thing is scheduled to happen ne~t She arrived at her conclusion Spring and students should be like this: maintenance asked that. reminded - .. your contract is rooms. be vacated of ·aU~ only for nine months\. personally owned furniture so Hickok House remains a that they coufd shampoo carpets, sensitive topic around the . fix doors, fix windows, and. paint Housing Office.. In reply to the ; several rooms in West. Removal question, \Were transfers of all . furniture had never been · notified that. Hickok woUld house a large number of Black students?\ Mrs. Beam said yes, she had written them, and said that the BSA would hold its meetings there. h is illegal, unreasonable, and unnecessary to label a dorm a \Black House,\ and she does not think the distinction should be made. Ideally, it should not be. But, given the situation and the consequences, it would only make sense to avoid a.ny serious conflict in the future by simply .Jetting people know about circumstances and environments before they commit themselves to them. In this case, Mrs. Beam seems committed to defiant idealism. It is not likely that she will handle the same thing any differently next year, which in principle is commendable, but in fact, may be disastrous. ) Cat:Jtinuedon Page6 responsibility. Living in a fraternity permits a man a chance to \run his own society. There is an interaction with people on a much better level. Even if. you might want to, you can't ignore a person, as you've got to live with him.\ · Responsibilities within fraternities are divided among chairmanships, SliGh as social and rushing. All members, though, are responsible for getting things done, with everyone generally pitching in. Generally speaking, Johnson said, men in fraternities are more . socially oriented than independents. Fraternities still sponsor a considerable part of the social activities on campus. The opportunity to throw parties in a House are greater as they have the financial resources as well as the manpower necessary to organize a successful affair, · which she compares her love- giving to a car radio, telling some guy to turn her on when he's in town and cut her off wheri the reception gets static. In reference to campus co-eds who have been to fraternity parties and felt like pieces of merchandise on sale, Johnson was most apologetic. \We try for a 50-50 ratio when inviting, but we have no assurance how many men or women will show up. We · admit that a party with all men · or all women is not very exciting.\ Johnson is pleased with the success of the Interfraternity Council's concerts and party weekends. He feels they let the rest of the campus See that fraternities are not just concerned about their own little world. As far as the future outlook for fraternities, Johnson can't see any reason for their deterioration.· They \may have to adapt periodically, change some functions according to time,'' but they'll still continue to exist. lf . any houses do fold, Johnson feels it is due to poor financial organization, for, \if they work r~ght, · they're never hurting.\ Manage'\'nt Program by BRIAN LEWIS Union College has instituted an international management program designed for undergraduate and graduate students interested in management positions with multi- national firms. The program which Prof. Frederick A. Klemm characterized as unique in the country, will offer the student a combination of foreign languages, political science, history, economics and business ad ministration. The purpose of such a combination would be to give the prospective employees of the international firm a knowledge not only of business administration but also of the language, culture; and heritage of the country in which they are working. The program will concentrate on .the three areas most important for the United States - based multi-national C.:ontinued on Page 7

4 Continued from Pa2:e 1: The file's purpose is strictly for admission. Its contents are used to decide on the applicants and to choose finally who gets to enter Union. Access to this file is' had by the office staff, including officers and their secretaries and the three grants that work in Admissions. Also having the use of it are Dean Malloy, the Provost, President, Alumni Repre- sentatives, the Admissions Committee, (eleven faculty a~d five students) and the Athletic Staff. After deposits for places in the class have been ·made, the Freshman Record staff can take photos for those students that did not submit them, and Concordy can take a list of those who participated in high school journalism. The applicant himself can -see everything except the transcript, the voting results, and the personal recommendations. A tape of each file is kept in the Computer Center. The computer staff qas access to this, but must first go through Mr. Williams and have the signature of Admissions Director Shupe. Last spring there was an embarrassing mistake made' that left several red faces in the Admissions Office. In an attempt to recycle the confidential data cards, and assuming that they would be torn immediately, Director of Admissions, Jasper Shupe gave ·them to PYE. Instead of discretely disposing of the cards, they were dropped in a box behind WRUC, and the entire student body had free access until Mr. Shupe retrieved them. This is the only incident that he remembers where such a breach- was made, and it was totally accidental. From the Admissions Office, the main file of information is brought to the Office of the Dean of Students. This, of course, only applies to the accepted candidates. The \refused\ files are kept in the Admissions Office. Dean ~dward Malloy, when' informed of my purpose, wa~ most anxious to convey the feeling that there is \nothing ominous\ about the files his office keeps. He stressed it and· kept stressing it. so I feel I must, in turn, mention it to you to put you at ease while I continue. The files in Dean Malloy's office contain the original admissions information, plus records of iiinesses, excuses, discipline hearings, all correspondence, academic warnings, and all memos that are considered to be pertinent. For the years that you are a student at Union, this is the place where most people go for general information about marks. conduct, and your life in general. Dean Malloy stresses that. in 99% of the cases, the file is purely routine. Presumably in the other I% the file is needed to show that the student is not a \routine case.\ Access may be had by the Deans, President. Provost; the Admissions staff. the faculty. and the Committee oh Standing, should a case come up for ruling. The student may see his file, with the · exceptions of recommendations, and anything else the Dean may find necessary CONCORDIENS/S, Weqnesday, November 29 1972 ' . . •.• . -. I The Files and You to remove. No one outside the College community and no ·other students may see your file. It is not quite dear who can enter things into the file, but physically the .act is done by Dean Malloy. He puts in ''pertinent\ information, which may include faculty memos, reports of plagiarism, and so on. When asked if the student is always questioned regarding bad reports, the Dean said, \Almost always.\ I wondered whether a student could not he hurt by a conflict of personality with a professor, but I never got a direct answer. The file's specific use is for writing recommendations to other schools, and for the guidance of each student as an individual. So ihat he -does not look like a machine cog, record of all of a student's distinguishing actions, good or bad are kept on file. Dean Malloy sees the files as really great \individualizers and feels them extremely necessary in decisions on academic, as well as emotional or disciplinary problems. There is no computerized tape of the file. As for security, the file cabinets are locked at night. The only keys are in the possession of r>ean Malloy and Mrs. Snowden, his secretary. During the day, however, the file is kept open. Since there are always students milling around the office, I asked. what would happen if Mrs. Sn.owden left the office where they are kept for any period of time. I was again reassured, but again got no real answer. The file folders are never seat in the campus mail, but are always hand-carried to other offices. The -second main file is the permanent transcript. This includes high school records, plus college grades (with the P-F's included). . TQ.ere are also academic warnings, withdrawals, and biographical data. This f:tle is protected, and is the only one kept in the vault of the library, on microfilm. It is intended to remain there forever, the final record ·of your college career. The permanent transcript is straightforward, with no real explanations made for anything. There are, however, some notations. At times., the Discipline Committee makes temporary notes on- a. student's file for discipline purposes. These are removed after the stipulated time, and Mr. Schmidt guarantees that there are no mistakes about the erasure of such notations. . One other file l<ept by the Registrar includes only grades. These are lists submitted by each individual professor, and this file is the only one that has numerical grade:; given for any courses taken on the P-F option. The only people having access to the file are the Registrar's Office staff, the Administration, and each individual professor, but only for grades he has given. The student is not allowed to see this file. · All of these files are kept while the student is in attendence at Union. When he graduates, everything except the permanent transcript is supp 0 sed to be destroyed. Financial files are kept for from three to five years, to comply with the federal laws for loan or grant students. Then, at the end of the period, all files are destroyed. Dean Malloy's office, upon the graduation of each class, is supposed to send the files to the Registrar. Interestingly no one seems to be sure if the files have been sent. Anyway, these files, plus everything in the Registrar's Office, except the permanent file, are sent upstairs to the attic of the Administration Building. Mr .. Schmidt says that they are kept for from three to· five years after graduation of the class. Everyone on the top floor of the Administration Building has been living with the realization . that the ceiling may come falling· down on them at any time from the pure weight of the boxes on boxes of files up there. No one knows how far back they date, or why no one had destroyed them, but I have the Provost's word that they'll be destroyed, torn and shredded, by the end of next summer. in keeping with ·the academic objectives of the institution, must refer to student records shall normally have access to the fifes · in the Admissions Office, the Office of the Dean of Stuaents, · · the Office of the Registrar, the Office of Special Programs, the ' Office of Student Aid, or the Alumni and Placement Office. \Within these general guidelines the College resp·onds to inquiries from persons ·not authorized to inspect student records in the following. manner: \I. Requests for transcripts of the ~official academic record must originate with the student, or be . released by the student, except in the special cases of National Merit recipients whose records are made available to the foundation,' fteshm.en whose records are transmitted to the high school or preparatory counsellors for their i!)[ormation only, and the educational records cooperative program with preparatory schools. · \2. Requests by an accrediting · . agency evaluating. the College are ; honored, with a reminder of the confidentiality of the mat~rial. . \3. Special research projects involving the use of student files. must have the approval of either ' the President or the Dean of Students. \4. Unless a student has signed a release fo.I\m, the College · wiU not accede .to requests from federal and state agencies other than those conducting an approved accrediting visit, except in those cases simply involving an affirmation of a student's date and place of birth, attendance at Union, and status as· a degree candidate or recipient of a degree. \5. In agreeing to be interviewed by a prospective employer visiting the College, the student tacitly gives permission for the interviewer to refer to his record at Union with the· understanding that aU such i'nformation shfl.ll remain confidential between the potential employer and employee. \6. Inquiries concerning the financial postition of a student addressed to either the Office of Student Aid or to the Business Office will be answered only when it .is clear that the inquiry came as a request for credit by. the student or as a result· of publicly assumed obHgations. \In keeping with these stipulations, the College exercises normal precautions in monitoring both its permanent and transient files on students. The Office of the Registrar destroys non-essential items in student's folders ·ten years after the date his class entered the College. No records ·are maintained which reflect either the political activities or beliefs of students. Confidential files in the · Office of the Dean of St'udents are maintained for only one year after a student. leaves Union. · \Recommendations present a specia'l · problem. Faculty and administrative staff must be prepa.ied to supply recommendations, and .another academic institution may understandably requ~st specific information. In all such cases the College provides the information ~o long as the student has listed . the College as a reference or has agreed to the inquiry. it remains, of course, within the discretion of the referee how much information ) which might be termed confidential he conveys to the interested party. \In those cases where the ·public media seek information 'about a student and sometimes the cause for the linquiry may be ambivalent or even \notorious\ - · the College has volunte.ered no details. Faculty and administrators who may be approached should refer all such 'inquiries to the Director of Public Relations who, at his ·discretion, may answer relevant questions a 1 tho1,1gh it is assumed that qualitative:) assessment~ of .a student will rest soleiy ' . >bn'' publicly known data such as the Dean's List, within the purview of the College, \In any case not anticipated by these provisions, the College will' respond in a manner compatible with the best interests of both the student and the institution.\ So let each of you be aware of these rules when YoU invite prospecti. re employers and/ ot creditors to use Union as a reference. You should know what· you are involving in terms of your own confidential background. As I said before, this is a fact- finding report. I ask you to draw conclusions ior yourself, or, if . you have any questions o.it. policy, to ask. People will answe~f your questions, and the file drawers are not forever closed to .you. They are almost as open as you yourself want them to be .. After all, the life is yours. Remember also, that I have given only a survey of the major files on students. Various files are kept .by department chairmen, advisors, other faculty members, the Health Office, Athletic Office, and Guidance Office. Everyone wqo is anyone at Un.ion has a file on·someone else . It's up to you to find out, if you care, what is written about you in these 'various places. I wish you luck in trying to decipher the labyrinth of filing systems here, and yet they tell me that Union is shnple compared to most institutions. It sti.ll gets an· \A 11 from me for. complexity of bureaucracy. If anyone remembers back to last fall, there was some question as to whether Hillel had taken information from the files, and why. Dean Malloy admits that he gave permission for a quick survey to find religious preferences, but says that there has been no one allowed such leeway since. He wants to compile a card for such a purpose in the near future. In my discussion of the permanent transcript you'll realize I made no mention of specific access. This is a complex· topic, and rather than repeat the gibberish twice, I have decided to omit my fuddled explimation and reproduce . instead pages VI-37, 38 of the Faculty Manual. This is a full statement of official college policy concerning confidential files. You may find discrepancies between the facts I have related and the guidelines set up here, but then, maybe not so many people in high places are as familiar with the policies as they · should be. Surveillance in America · After the original file leave! Admissions, not only does it snowball downstairs to Dean Malloy's office, but it undergoes fission; parts are sent to the Registrar and to the Student Aid Office. The section sent to the Student Aid Office consists of the Parents' and the Student's Confidential Statements. These two documents compose most of the file in this office. Nothing except financial information is kept here. · Mr. Maras, his staff, and the grants have access to this information. As a student, you · cart see your file only if your parents check \yes\ in the space on the PCS form. The decision rests solely with your parents, and has nothing to do with the office. The Registrar's Office has several different files. One is the transcript of work done at Union. It is exclusively grades, with the P-F grades included. Access may be· had by the student by verbal request. STUDENT RECORDS AT UNION COLLEGE \All information compiled at the College on an individual student is confidential between the student and the institution. Except in those cases Where a form explicitly indicates that the infonnation is for public use (such as data for a news release originating from the news office at Union) or where the student has signed a written release, the student may assume that his records remain protected by the office responsible: only those members of the faculty\ or administration who, for purposes by SCOTT REITER Pau.I Chevigny, a staff attorney for the New York Civil Liberties Union, spoke recently on the rise of surveillance in American life. He outlined different types of surveillance. There is tailing, an old police practice, which is difficult and frequently ineffective. Electronic surveillance. a much-publicized form of surveillance, though reliable, is extremely expensive and not that widely used. The most common form of police surveillance is infiltration and provocation of certain organizations by police .agents. (It has been the policy of the New York City police to have an agent at every major political meeting.) The purpose of this, like the purpose of other forms of surveillance, is to catch the . s.uspected person or group in the • act of a crime. Very often when agents infiltrate organizations they provoke the group, that is, encourage them to break the Jaw in some way so that a case can be made against them. Thus the name provocation. P()lice infiltration is a. relatively new and effective device, coming into extensive practice during the past fifty years, and producing many charges, much m01:·e than by electronic or other means of surveillance .. However, it is also the most unreliable form. Tapes and searches don't lie. Agents, thou.gh, must make daily reports; they still remain uncontrollable. Another feature of police provocation is that it presents the public with the view of a mon()Jithic opponent. \That group is causing all our problems.\ This is especially true in college towns. Much, moral and legal debate is going on over these practices. But the practices do go on and at the present time the courts art · rtot stopping them. As for the future, Mr. Chevigny gave the impression that surveillance in American life would continue to increase. a w fil 01 fil D sl ht hi Cl (c k rr t< Sl tl C' l< c p< h ir n R tl b p n f f, E c t J, t. I t l

n of r only leaves mt a and t be !pply 10ther may 1ecific :s the ation listed r has tatns, :mof lUch be ys to the ttion and the t or liege ails. who refer :ctor his vant med :>f ,a #...1! . i I .on the riew I· by will ible the l of vite /ot a hat· of ial ICt- aw if ' on. :•: . vet file to as be •. :ve iOr tre :n, rs, :IC at )U in )U 1e e, is st lh )f e e v g 1 f Wednesday, November 29, 1972 · 5 Gri.dders ·End Seas·on On Winning Note, 3-0 GRID STATS Fittingly, Bob Mitchell kicked a 47 yard field-goal in the mud with seconds remaining in the first half to give Union a 3-0 win over haple$s Hamilton in the final game of the .season, T):le Dutchmen finished at 4-5, a slight improverpent from a year before (3-6), but short of the hoped-for .500 mark. This. year, Mitchell, the senior from Shaker High, kicked booming field goals of 41 yards against Rochester and 51 yards against R.P.L All three kicks came in wins, all were pro-range (over forty yards), and the R.P.t, kick seta school record. Mitchell also proved to be the most versatile performer on the. team. In Jhe opening game of the season ·;he ·c~ine off the bench to ·• I I ;f; ~ ' . . . - - take over at q~arterback, and completed 5 of 7 passes in leading Union to a 14..() victory. On the season, he led all Garnet passers with a 47% completion by MA~I\ w: MINDEL mark. · In the R.P.L game, he caught one of Union's two TO passes of the year, and also tan some end- around plays. Also,. he proved he could not only kick well on field goals and kickoffs, hut could cover kicks as wen when he set up an important !!Core with a fumble recovery against Middleb1,1ry on a Union punt. Mitchell finished the year with 27 points on the touchdown, the three fieldgoals, and twelve of thirteen extra points. Mitchell wound up ·his career at Union with a record setting lO field goals .• The other bright spot for the Dutchmen this year, was sophomore Ronnie Westbrook. Westbrook outscored Mitchell with 32 points on five touchdowns and one two-point conversion. He piled up 620 yards on the ground and added . Thanksgiving: Weekend Of. Sport by BUFFALO Bruins fans, your troubles are over. Bobby Orr is back. Although · he is. no longer (not as of yet, anyway) accelerating from 0•60 instantaneously, he has been accelerating fast enough since his return that he has been scoring a Goal a .Game. Sound familiar, Ranger fans? As of Saturday night, the Bruins were 3 points behind the Broadway Blueshirts and catching up fast. At only 9 points behind Les Habs, the Prince of Wales trophy looms as a distinct possibility, with the Stanley Cup soon to follow. The Sruins played the Atlanta Flames last weekend. at the magnificent Omni, Atlanta's spacious ·home rink. The expansion Flames are very much a part of the torrid West division race. With former Canadian Phil Myre in goal, backed up by .ex-Brave Danny Bouchard, their goaltending is anything but weak. Myre saw a lot of rubber against the Bruins the other night. He let four get by him but came up with good saves throughout the game. John Adams looked impressive in goal for the Bruins as he scored a shutout in his second NHL start. * * * * This was also the weekend which saw. the NBA's longest and most intense rivalry continued, as the Knicks and Celtics played the tradition~! home-and-home series, with each team· winning on their home court. On Friday nigi1t in Boston, the Celts whomped the Knicks 114-97 in front of a capacity Boston Garden crowed. Don \the Duck\ Chaney was the difference in a close game that saw the Celts reel off 8 straight points at tlie end of the game to insure the Victory. On Saturday night in front of another capacity crowd at the Garden (Madison Square, that is), the Knicks retaliated by defeating the Celts 97-94. The Knicks capitalized on Celtic mistakes and fine shooting from Clyde Frazier in the opening stanza and from Willis Reed in the final one, to clinch the win. With both the Celts and Knicks ·playing so well, onlY the gods know who is going to win the Atlantic division, and they ain't tellin'. One thing for sure, though, whoever wins the Atlantic division will take the NBA crown. * * ·* * And in the NFL; it should be Miami all the way. They haven't fashioned an 11-0 record on luck alone. They mixed a good defense with a great offense and added a little Mercury Morris to complete the winning recipe. Washington is too inconsistent and Earl Morrall knows what it is like to win. Besides, any team that loses to the Patriots is not championship material. The two teams are pretty even overall, as far as personnel go, but Miami is the best bet performance wise. Ask John Mazur, he'll tell you. * * * * The Union College basketball team opens the 1972-73 season this Saturday night at Memorial Fieldhouse. Tap-off time is 8:00 p.m. and the opponent is Middlebury, who robbed Union of a win last year. Forget the books for a night and catch Gary Walter's latest act. RPI Hockey The winter term fast approaches, faster than anyone cares to admit. Winter term means basket ball, both professional and college, and hockey, both professional and college. · The Tri-City area is rich in basketball, with Union College, Albany State and Siena leading the way. It is lacking in good hockey, though, wit~ one notable exception: RPI. Hockey is a major sport at RPI, probably more so than football. Aa good ole U. Coil. doesn't have much of a hockey program, good hockey can be seen .at RPI throughout the winter, If you are a connoisseur of good college; hockey, make the trip to Troy to catch the Enginneers in action. It's college hockey at its best. on · 400 more yards on pass receptions, punt returns, and kickoff. returns. Ronnie could have had consideratly more yardage had not seven of union's nine games been played in driving rain and cold weather. He broke one kickoff for an 84 yard touchdown, and had a 60 yard punt return called back on a·. questionable clipping call. Both Westbrook an\! Mitchell were featured picks· on the Union- Star Capital District College All- Star Team, which includes .players from Albany State, · R.P.I, Siena, and Hudson Valley. Other Union players picked to the team were, on offense: center Skip Lega, and on defense: linemea Charle Weekes and Don Rupsis, linebacker Tom Anacker, and · safety Jerry (\Spider Lockhart\) Cuffey. Lega, Weekes, and Anacker are seniors, while Cuffey is a junior, and Rupsis is a sophomore. TEAM TOTALS Points First Downs Rushing Yardage Passing Yardage Total Yardage Passes Attempted Passes Completed Percentage Had Intercepted Number of Punts Punting Y a:r:dage Punting Average Fumbles Lost Number of Penalties Yard Penalized UNION 113 117 1543 5ll 2054 154 53 34% 12 62 2242 36,2 18 44 294 OPP. 128 110 1407 1192 2599 179 75 42% 15 64 2221 35.1 13 47 418 Hoo.psters To Open 72-73 Seas,on V s. Middlebury Listing a bit, but hopefully on course, Unions 72-73 basketball squad will play its initial game against experienced and always tough Middlebury Saturday at the fieldhouse. The list is in the form of a limp, and is worn by the indispensable Billy Carmody. Carmody, who has had a long history of knee troubles dating back to high school, was expected to be the Dutchmen's offensive quarterback this season. But his status is questionable after recurring pain sidelined him during a scrimmage against Springfield Wednesday. So invaluable is Carmody's leadership that Coach Walters, using the seamen's analogy with Cecil Waker of The Gazette, maintained. ''We're like a ship without a rudder without him.\ With Carmody out, last year's sixth man, area favorite Chuck Abba will start) along with Fairfield University transfer Luke Dillion, who \sat last year out. Tri-captains Bacher, and Walker will Sophomore standout Doyle start. Chuck photo by Les Kernan Tri-captain Mike \Dill\ Doyle is aiming to knock off the Middlebury Panthers this . Saturday at 8 P.M. One of Union's three losses last year was at Middlebury, where Gary Walters coached before coming to Schenectady.' by FRANK DeLUCIA Gugliotta will see considerable action at center against Middlebury's big (by Union's .standards, 6'6\) sophomore Dave Davidson. The Panthers can use freshmen, (unlike Union ·Whose membership in t!1e New England Small College Athletic Association prevents it,) and will use first year man Kevin Cummings. Mike Cummings, an area star from Bishop Gibbons H.S., is a fine shooter and will complement Kevin in the backcourt. Middlebury will bave returning lettermen at the forward position. Hopeing to irnP,rove on thei1 ... . 15-8 record last season, best m the Vermont school's history, Middlebury will be seeking to duplicate last years 69-58 victory over the Garnet. Union, which has not lost at home in . 19 games, leads the series 25-16 dating back to 1920. Game time 8:00p.m. Ski .Patrol News by!'ILL HAUS Two weekends ago a group of Union College Ski Patrollers ventl.lred up to West Mountain in Glen Falls, N.Y., to take part in a combination Avalanche and Mountaineering training session. The two-day course included an intensive 18-hour lecture program, which covered such varied topics as avalanche rescue techniques and winter survival. 1t was the intention of the course to make the potential candidate aware of the problems he would encountl!r during a rescue operation, and how to solve 'those problems. Nothing was dwelled upon in great detail, as . , the purpose was only to teach the candidate basics. Every aspect of a rescue operation was covered: avalanche rescue organization, mapping, mode of travel bivouacing, and of course, mountain first aid. As an added attraction, the ski patrollers slept out in tents in sub-freezing temperatures, to be introduced to the· cold environment of winter. What does all this have to do With the Ski Patrol? The, answer is quite a lot. The course was offered by the National Sk~ Patrol System (N.S.P.S.) to train patrollers in becoming acquainted with avalanches and mountaineering. Without the N.S.P.S., this course would never have been offered to anyone, and the wealth of information gathered under one roof would never have occurred. The N.S.P.S. is a voluntary force of skiers who patrol a designated area. They are responsible for performing first- aid, serving area management, and promoting safety. It might seem that beconing a patroller is . as remote as climbing Mt. Everest. It is not. All that is needed is a willingness to learn something new and different. . True, there is a lot of work involved on the part of a potential patroller, but to become a patroller one must work for it. To become a patroller, three requirements must be completed. The first involves completing an · Advanced First Aid course. The second requirement mandates the need to take a Winter Refresher course, which is a four week (one three-hour class a week) review session and an on-the-hill examination. The last requirement 1s completing a . skiing test and demonstrating proficiency in the use of the toboggan. The patrol provides training for this last test. The ski patrol assigns each new patroller to a local area. The patroller is allowed to ski at the area, in return for his service. I joined the Union College Ski Patrol because l wanted to put my years of skiing to good use. Helping injured skiiers is as good as use as l can think of. , Remember, though, the patroller does not ski f0or free. He is there •for a purpose; free skiing is a bonus. If anyone is at all ·interested in becoming a patrol member, see Ginny Bade in 301 North, or Jim Heller in 403 West.

6 CONCORDIENS/S, Wednesday, November.~9, 1972. I ~ '~ Record Tax Allocations by LOUIS BARASH ************,*****,****** Earlier in November, the TAX COMMI!I'TEE RE:Pp,Rt~: . . . Student Tax Committee issued Activity , A.mt, Req, Amt. Rec~rved its projected budget for the Big Brothers/Sisters $ 1030.00 $ 900:00 current academic yar. Ti\)e Black Student Alliance 16376,0;0 4800.00 proposed allocation of Bridge. Club B5 . .Q.O 135.00 $118,26J.OO is the largest ever Cheerleaders . 160.00 130.0Q and represents. the first time the Chess Club 200~00 150.00 budget has exceeded $I 00,000.00. Club ·sports 3980.00 2375,00* The itemized list of requests Bowling 368.00 368.,00 and allocations is listed helow. Hockey 883.00 783,00 Of course many groups did not Rugby 540.GO . 585.00 receive the amounts that were Skiing 840.00 840.00 requested. The tax committee Water Polo . 349.10 299.00 tried to make minimal cuts, ·Insurance 1000.00 1000;00 Two-hundred members of the coi/Pge community attended a discussion on \Wonwn at Union.\ photo by BiU Erichson Women At Union coming mostly in advertising and Coffee House 2400;00 2050.00 telephone expenses. Concordiensis 12?50.00 ll530.00 The committee also has had a Freshman Record 2200;00 2200.00 great deal of experience in Film Workshop 1144..70 . 904.00 realistically predicting expenses. Glee Club 14000,00 10000.00 One reason for the large increase Idol 11150.00 6525.00 by DAVE CASTLEMAN over last year's budget was the International Relations Club 1662.00 1980.00 addition of nine new Student Intervarsity Christian Fell. 255.00 235.00 For some time now, I have been debating how 1 should handle an article about an open discussion which took place several weeks ago·. The discussion concerned \Women at Union,\ which is a very delicate topic (no play on feminine characteristics intended). When I attended the meeting, I took notes with the intention of writing a satirical piece, with most attention being given to members of my own sex. However, I was fearful that such treatment might take something away from the significance of the occasion. To make matters worse, the person who was responsible for the .. straight\ time, place, quotations reportage lost his or her notes. This type of journalism has never interested me, particularly when the issues are too great to lose in \At 8:30 in the Old Chapel... .. \ An estimated two-hundred people att~nded the panel discussion. Originally, the meeting had been set for the 2nd floor lounge in Hale House, but the size of the crowd necessitated a move into the Old Chapel. It was here that the histrionics took place. Prof. Shinagel, a ·panel member, was asked by Chairwoman Walbek to open the discussion with a brief review of Union's decision to go coeducational. All was calm, as the Professor presented a cogent review of the college's decision. There was not much room for controversy here. Next Chairwoman Walbek asked Tony Faga to comment on the changes which he had noticed at Union since coeducation. He suggested that Union had become a suitcase campus, that fraternities had been adversely affected (unnecessarily so if girls could o·e assimilated into fraternity life), and that the school cumulative index had risen markedly. Then he closed with the statement, \These are the only observations I've made.\ There was incredulous laughter from all corners of the room. I wish that there was some way of Quality food Dinner 4-8 p.m. Reasonable Prices RedFox Inn Charcoal Burgers X- Midnight C old Sandwiches Jay Street ASK ABOUT THE \/J.f(>r 10 CLUB\ ROSTERS tor Intramural Basketbal~, badmitten, volley ball and · bowling, must be in Coach Lawrence's office not later than Dee. 4. t · determining how many people were laughing at themselves. These comments were followed by more mature words from several women students on the panel. There was complaint about the distortion present in the ex1stmg ratio, the too common, if not general. \West College leer\ which women must too often put up with, and significantly, the lack of female role models on campus. One need only look at the present number of females on the faculty. to validate this last observation. Other things noted were the general ambience of masculiQity at Union and a conscious striving on the part of women to achieve in the classroom. Panel member Debbie Davis also said that there were times when she sensed a .. subtle repression.\ After each pane.! member had aired his or her views, the discussion was opened up to all present. Again, the comments ran from the most inane to relatively serious discussion of socialization. However, the important thing was that the comments were forwarded in a public meeting. One got the impression that many of these opinions had been held for a while, and that this was a forum in which they could finally be p.resented. Of the utmost significance was the fact that women on this campus were brought together in ,Activities to the budget. The Jazz Workshop 400.00 400;00 Chess Club, the Water Polo Modern. Dance Workshop 2415.00 955.00 Club, the Film Workshop. the Mountebanks 14660.00 11..555.00 Modern Da:nce Workshop, the N@rtheastern NY Youth Orch. ·2700.00 2000.00 Northeastern N.Y. Youth OutingClub 1368.00 1368.00 Orchestra, the Ski Patrol, the Photographic Society 87_5.00 $95,00 Society to Study Politicai Political Forum 2000.00_ ''«.~: ,,.po Change, and SIMS (the Student Pye Clu!) 320.00 :•'t. -··· J).:OO International Meditation s0ciety) Ski Patrol 495.00 460 .. 00 are all new recipients this year. Social Committee 25500.00 25500._00 Another new expe.nse was Student Course Evaluation 2695.00 2695.00 realized when the committee was Student Senate· ;1225.00 1050.00 informed that an insurance SIMS 275.00 225.00 policy was necessary for club Student Social Act. Com. 2580.00 1565,00 sports. These new expen~es total Society to Study Political Chg. 145.00 102.00 $7,757.00. Union Book 18165.00 16820.00 For those interested in WRUC 4192.00 4192.00 discussing the budgetor anything W2UC 1530.00 1130.00 to do ·with student activities, an Concert Series 1000.00 .1000.00 Ad Hoc Committee on Student Student Activities Office 1000.00 1000.00 Activities has beeR formed by the 150283.20 118261.00 Steering Committee. The head of *To be supplemented by $1,500.00 from the Athletic Department this committee is Marty Sherman. * * * * * * * * * * * * * * * * * * * * * * * Dean Beam Continued from Page3 Freshmen,· this year, were not notified of their room numbers or roommates' names until they ·arrived. According to Mrs. Beam, there wasn't enough time. Will there be enough time next year? No. There was some contention over Mrs. Beam's decision to conduct an RA Leadership Program on campus prior to Orientation. (In case you didn't know, Dean Beam is in charge of She ha~ had good reactions from students living on them and sees ori1y · the construction of bathrooms as an obstacle to further co-ed living. The ·Ad-Hoc Committee on Housing should be a great asset to the Housing Office, in Mrs. Beam's opinion. She hopes to hear from its. members about suggestions for housing, effectiveness of the RA Program, and anything else that concerns the resident student. There is some recognition in certam. offices of. dissatisfaction. But, as I was advised, if anyone· is to judge the Dean of Students 1 Office or .the Housing Offic¢ it can only be the students. During the first weeks of next term, I hope. to find out what student opinion is on the matter. Unless we would rather complacently continue to rave without results, it's time to confront the problem, if it exists, and find out something about it. a quasi-organized manner for the first time. If this initial step is followed by further organization, perhaps there will finally be a group on this campus that shows some signs of life. If further organization does not take place, then complaints about women's life on this campus will be less valid. . Orientation.) Several RA's were . in disagreement with the classification \Leaders\ and felt ' the program was a waste of time ·and money. Mrs. Beam feels the program was .\well done\ and Dean Beam's only suggestions for the improved competense of her own department were that Admissio-ns should, ·if possible, secure numbers of incoming students earlier, and that the Housing staff should be expanded. Not even Mrs. Beam has any hope of her second suggestion being realized, as it is a financial problem, and, consequently, i_nsoluble in the foreseeable future. The Union College Christian Fellowship will be meeting Thursday evening at 9:00 p.m. in Hale House Student Lounge~ Dr. Herbert MeKeel will be speaking on the \Lordship of Jesus Chtist.'' Come and hear . the relevance of this man called Jesus. tev•·s Dave's. Mens Shop ·453 State St. (downtown Schenectady) \very important\ for the improvement of the RA program. Contrary to a rumor that the program was financed by a Dorm-recreation budget, it was in fact funded by what Mrs. Beam tactfully s-pecifies as her \all-other\ acount. Mrs. Beam {to many's surprise. ·perhaps her own) is happy with the co-ed floors in West and Fox .. Finally, as to the rumors, schemes, and various and devious undertakings... nothing is affecting the functioning of Sheila Beam at the moment. * * * * Take a brea.k! Sunday afternoon at 4:00, the Union College Madrigals will be giving a joint concert with harp soloist Liz HunHey. * * * * FOR LIQUOR & WINE \''~~~~~~~~~ Try JAKE LIPSTEIN'S 464 State Street FR4-1888 The 1972 Union Book • Is Now Being Distributed In The Union Book Office,/2nd Floor Arts Building;/ I p.m. to 3 p.m. After Deeember lst Pick Up Your Copy In Student Activities Office, Old Gym HaD BOULEVARD BOWL ' 1315 Erie Blvd. 40 AMF BOWLING LANES 374-4171 Bowl for Health FIVE ROOMS AVAILABLE FOR PARTIES AND BANQUET·S Featuring llalian•American Cuisine mof~el' :1-ei'I'O ~ le6laul'\anf t 115 BARRETT STREET SCHENECTADY,.~· FREE P~RKING . Tel D16-9554 or FR7•2642 OPEN 7 DAYS A WEEK Fav~red By ~he Union Atldetic Teams!

6 CONCORD!ENSJS. Wednesda}i, November 29, 1972 Two-hundred memhers ol the cofle[?e community attended a discusshm un \Women at Union.\ photo by Bill Erichsen Women At Union by DAVE C'ASTI,EMAN For some time now, I ha\t! heen dehating ho\\ I should handle an article ahout an open discussion which to()k place several \H:eks ago. The discussion concerned \'Women at Union.\ which is a \'cry delicate topic (no play on feminine characteristics intended). determining hov, many people were Ia ughi11g at themsel\'es. The~e emnmenb were follov.ed bv more mature v,ords from s~\eral 11.omen studenb on the panel. fhere was complaint about the distortion present in the exJstJ!Ig ratio, the too common. if not general. \West College leer\ which women must too often put up with, and significantly. the lack of female role models on campus. One need only look at the present numher of females on the faculty to validate this last observation. Other things noted were the general ambience of masculinity at Union and a conscious striving on the part of women to achieve in the classroom. Panel member Dehhie Davis abo said that there were times when she sensed a \suhtle repression.\ Record by LOUIS BARASH Earlier in November, the Student Tax Committee issued its projected budget for the current academic yar. The proposed allocation of $11!U61.00 is the largest ever and represents the first time the budget has exceeded S I 00,000.00. The itemi;ed list of reLJ uests and allocations is listed below. Of course many groups did not receive the amounts that were requested. The tax committee tried to make minimal cuts. coming mostly in advertising and telephone expenses. The committee also has had a great deal of experience in realistically predicting expenses. One reason for the large increase over last vear's budget was the addition ·of nine new Student Activities to the budget. The Chess Club. the Water Polo Club. the Film Workshop, the Modern Dance Workshop, the Northeastern N.Y. Youth Orchestra, the Ski Patrol, the Society to Study Political Change, and SIMS (the Student International Meditation society) are all new recipients this year. Another new expense was realized when the committee was informed that an insurance policy was necessary for club sports. These new expenses total $7. 757.00. For those interested in discussing the budget or anything to do with student activities, an Ad Hoc Committee on Student Activities has been formed by the Steering Committee. The head of this committee is Marty Sherman. Tax Allocations ***********~*********** TAX COMMITTEE REPORT Activity Big Brothers; Sisters Black Student Alliance Bridge Club Cheerleaders Chess Club Club Sports Bowling Hockey Rugby Skiing Water Polo Insurance Coffee House Concordiensis Freshman Record Film Workshop Glee Club Idol International Relations Club Intervarsity Christian Fell. Jazz Workshop Modern Dance Workshop Mountebanks Northeastern NY Youth Orch. Outing Club Photographic Society Political Forum Pye Club Ski Patrol Social Committee Student Course Evaluation Student Senale SIMS Student Social Act. Com. Society to Study Political Chg. Union Book WRUC W2UC Concert Series S tl:tdent Activities Office Amt. ReQ. Amt. Received $ 1030.00 $ 900.00 16376.00 4800.00 135.00 I 35.00 160.00 130:0Q 200.00 150.0() 3980.00 2375.0(')* 368.00 368.00 883.00 783.00 540.00 585.00 840.00 840.00 349 .I 0 299.00 1000.00 1@00.00 2400.00 2050.00 12050.00 11530.00 2200.00 2200.00 1144.70 904.00 14000.00 10000.00 11150.00 6525.00 1662.00 1980.00 255.00 235.00 400.00 400.00 2415.00 955.00 14660.00 11555.00 •2700.00 2000.00 1368.00 1368;00 875.00 595.00 2000.00 . 1475.00 320.00 ' 260.00 495.00 460.00 25500.00 25500.00 2695.00 2695:00 1225.00 1050.00 275.00 225.00 2580.00 1565.00 145.00 102.00 18165.00 16820.00 4192.00 4192.00 1530.00 I 130.00 1000.00 I 000.00 1000.00 I 000.00 150283.20 118261.00 *To be supplemented by $1,500.00from the Athletic Department *********************** When I attended the meeting, I took notes with the intenti<m of writing a satirical piece, with most attention heing given to memhers of 111 \' own sex. H owcver. I was fe;Hful that such treatment might take something awa\ from the significance ol the occ<;~IOn. I o make matters worse. the per~on who was responsible lor the '\straight\ time. place. LJUotations reportage lost his or her notes. This type of journalism has ne\er interested .me. particularly when the issues are tt>o great to lose in \At X:JO in the Old Chapel ..... \ An estimated two-hundred After each panel member had aired his or her views, the discussion was opened up to all present. Again. the comments ran from the most inane to relativelv serious discussion of sociali1~tion. However, the important thing was that the comments were forwarded in a public meeting. One got the impression that many of these opinions had been held for a while, and that this was a forum in which they could finally be presented. Dean Beam people atte,_nded the panel discussion. Originally, the meeting had been set for the 2nd floor lounge in Hale House, hut the sil'e ol the crowd necessitated a move into the Old Chapel. It was here that the histrionics took place. Prof. Shinage I. a panel memher. was asked hy Chairwoman Walhek to open the discussion with a hrief review of Union's deci~ion to go coeducational. All was calm, a~ the Professor presented a cogent review of the college's decision. T\here was not much room for controversy here. Next Chairwoman Walbek asked Tony Faga to comment on the changes which he had noticed at Union since coeducation. He suggested that Union had b~?come a suitcase campus, that fraternities had heen adversely affected (unnecessarily so if girls could be assimilated into fraternity life). and that the school cumulative index had risen markedly. Then he closed with the statement, ••These are the only observations I've made.\ There was incredulous laughter from a II corners of the room. I wish that there was some way of Qualit} food Reasonable Dinner 4·8 p.m. Prices RedFox Inn ( 'harcoal Burgers X-M1dn1gllt Cold Samh-t'iches Jay Street AS!<: A BOUT THF. \J/ for /0 CLUB\ ROSTERS for Intramural Basketbal~, badmitten, volley ball and bowling, must be in (()ach Lawrence's office not later than Dec. 4. I .. Of the utmost significance was the fact that women on this campus were brought together in a quasi-organized manner for the first time. If this initial step is followed by further organization. perhaps there will finally be a group on this campus that shows some signs of life. If further organization does not take place, then complaints about women's life on this campus will be less valid. Levrs Dave's\ Mens Shop 453 State St. (downtown Schenectady) Continued from Page 3 Freshmen. this vear, were not notified of their ~oom numbers or roommates' names until they arrived. According to Mrs. Beam, there wasn't enough time. Will there be enough time next year? No. There was some contention over Mrs. Beam's decision to conduct an RA Leadership Program on campus prior to Orientation. (In case you didn't know, Dean Beam is in charge of Orientation.) Several RA's were in disagreement with the classification \Leaders\ and felt . the program was a waste of time and money. Mrs. Beam feels the program was \well done\ and \very important\ for the improvement of the RA program. Contrary to a rumor that the program was financed by a Dorm-recreation budget, it was in fact funded by what Mrs. Beam tactfully specifies as her \all-other\ acount. Mrs. Beam (to many's surprise. perhaps her own) is happy with the co-ed floors in West and Fox .. FOR LIQUOR & WINE f ., Try JAKE LIPSTEIN'S ~ State Street FR 4-1888 The 1972 Union Book Is Now Being Distributed In The Union Book Office,/2nd Floor Arts Building,/1 p.m. to 3 p.m. After December lst Pick Up Your Copy In Student Activities Office, Old Gym Hall I She has had good reactions from students living on them and sees only the construction of bathrooms as an obstacle to further co-ed living. The Ad-Hoc Committee on Housing should be a great asset to the Housing Office, in Mrs. Beam's opinion. She hopes to hear from its members about suggestions for housing. effectiveness of the RA Program. and anything else that concerns the resident student. Dean Beam's only suggestions for the improved competen.ce of her own department were that Admissions should, if possible, secure numbers of incoming students earlier, and that the Housing staff should be expanded. Not even Mrs. Beam has any hope of her second suggestion being realized, as it is a financial problem, and, consequently, insoluble in the foreseeable future. Finally, as to the rumors, schemes, and various and devious undertakings... nothing is affecting the functioning of Sheila Beam at the moment. There is some recognition in certain offices of dissatisfaction. But, as I was advised, if anyone is to judge the Dean of Students' Office or the Housing Office it can only be the students. During the first weeks of next term, I hope to find out what student opinion is on the matter. Unless we would rather complacently continue to rave without results, it's time to confront the problem, if it exists, and find out something about it. The Union College Christian Fellowship will be meeting Thursday evening at 9:00 p.m. in Hale House Student Lounge. Dr. Herbert MeKeel will be speakin_g on the \Lordship of Jesus Christ.\ Come and hear the relevance of this man called Jesus. * * * * Take a break! Sunday afternoon at 4:00, the Union College Madrigals will be giving a joint concert with harp soloist Liz Huntley. * * * * BOULEVARD BOWL 1315 Erie Blvd. 40 AMF BOWLING LANES 374-4171 Bowl for Health FIVE ROOMS AVAILABLE FOR PARTIES AND BANQUETS Featuring Italian-American Cuisine motie, :lerro ~ Re.,taurant 1115 BARRETT STREET SCHENECTADY,. N. Y. FREE PARKING . Tel I>i6:9554 or FR7-2642 OPEN 7 DAYS A WEEK FavClred By The UniGII Atbletie Teams! . .~) . :~; ... ., .. I • I I I I (; I l ~f !

** 35.00 30.0Q 50.00 75.00* 68.,00 83.00 85.00 .. 00 in dents 1 it I udent blem, out eting in Dr. king the us. j· CONCORDIENSJS, Wednesday, November 29, 1972 Interested high school students watch the operation of Union's time-sharing computer terminal at the open .house in the Science and Engineering Center. photo by Bill Eric~<»t' !F'\'. . \\ L~~T P;EPA;:TI.;~ H:l . n. . The Law Board . Review Center will b~ offering ~ U intensive review sessions in preparation for the Law ~. . School Admission :est taught by professi?n~ls at the . Howard Johnson's m Latham. Enrollment 1s now open for the December 16 ~SAT. Re~iew ~essions begin ~ November 25. Call or wnte for detruls. . n The Law Board Review Center of Albany u 8 Pine Street, Glens Fall, N.Y. 12801 n 6~==>~1< >11< (51~ ... 793-66!~ ?'I< ~d ' ' ',1 •• LUI QJ'S RESTAURANT SPECIALIZING lN Italian • Amerlc:11n FOOfl I 125 BARRETT ST. Schenect.cly Dl 6-97'* Enjoy Sizzling~ Steoks and Chops Visit Our Cocktait· !ar --. '' Letteea Open House discern the difference between a shotgun shell and a t~;Jar gas cannister? implying a mistake in Continued from Page 2 loading). One might get the· An estimated 1,500 high school sheriffs deputies and state feeling that somehow something students, their parents, and their troopers arrived on the scene in is lacking in an explanation of teachers .attended the recent riot gear. In their attempts to this nature. , demonstration-open house at disperse the crowd, tear gas and However, the fact still remains Union College's new Science• buckshot were fired. The that two students have been Engineering Center. buckshot dispersed into two killed at Southern University. An estimated 1,500 high students in the crowd. They were Within recent years, students !lchool students, their parents, killed. have been mtudered at Jackson ...... their teachers attended the T·he question one should ask in State, Texas State, and Kent recent dem-onstration~open house the wake of this tragedy (besides State. These colleges are all ·at Union College's new Science~ how many loaded shotguns were located in the South, except for Engineering Center.. held and aimed at .students), is Kent. All the students murdered The students were drawn from why such lethal weaporiry was on were Black except for the four · · about 40 high schools in a 10~ the scene at all; especially since slain at Kent. ~~ .. ~•\ area of northeastern New the students were unarmed. A point worth making here is and some came to the · The Governor of Louisiana that many students today feel \'\\\\'''\ from as far as 50 miles offered an explanation saying strongly committed to making for the event. . that from ten feet away one can't themselves heard and attempting Civil engineering department N p to shape both their future and H. Gilbert Harlow, . ew •. rogram that of America. If there is any .of the open hause sincerety in this committment, co1mn1i.ttee, said the scientists and ContinuedfromPage3 then all such tragedies involving \'\\'\·'\ers at Union were firm: Western Europe, Latin the expression of student opinion surprised and gratified at the America, and the Far East. The ~hould be important and ·~It really was much bigger than we had expected,\ he said, we were pleased at the way .. things went, pleased about the turnout.\ Visitors saw a wide range of scientific .and engineering ranging .from a that played wicked ckjack to an electron microscope, from historic models mathematical concepts to . Demonstrations covered electrical and optical phenomena, theory of waves, the methods testing for water pollution, a host of other topics. Union tudents manned many demonstrations. Prof. Harlow said his group hopes to repeat the open house on an even larger scale ne;xt year. .--------. t <tlnn nl ier 'fl t t. t t 1 st specializing t f p in hot dogs I 6 r. ize with b.est hot .• y sauce m town t .Hot Dogs t : f' Serving Breakfast, I 1 Lunch & Dinner I f Open 7 days a week I f Mon.~Thurs. 6~1 a.m. ' f Fri. & Sat. 6-4 a.m. I f Sunday 9~1 a.m. f I_ 2r!_B~~~h.:!! __ I callege began the program because of the recent and. rapid development of the multi- national firm into a highly significant institution and the fact that many such firms are having difficulty finding people who are familiar with both the business firm and the foreign countries in which the firm does business. The idea is one which has taken several years to fully develop. Professor Alfred L. Thimm and Professor Klemm began initial planning for the program in 1969. According to Professor Klemm, the College has been told they can be reasonably sure of placing graduates of the program in several cities, including Vienna. The program would 1 in ef~ect 1 be an inter-departmental maJor for an undergraduate student. One advantage to a Union College student who chooses to enroll in the program is that it would be possible for the student to accomplish in five years what would normally take six, as he would graduate with a master's degree. Undergraduates interested in the program ought to see Professor Klemm, who would be the student's faculty adviser in the program. He is in the Humanities Building. Levrs Dave's' Mens Shop 453 State St. · (downtown Schenectady) Moffett's liquor Store L 1505 VanVranken Ave. Schenectady, New York 12308 -ADD TO YOUR EDUCATION- - L.t\ARN MOREABOUTWINES- Join Our WINE TASTINCi CLUB No Admissiom\Chur~:e- No Requirements Each month \\C select a difTcrcnt \inc to he tc~tcd. I here j, a <.:urd dl·~<.:rihmg the \\ine in great detail ~o ~ou can learn ahcout 11. On thi~ card there j, a pitture of the lane! so you can rcmcmhcr the \\inc in the luturc to imrrc\ ~ntH date when ~oudinc out or ;impl~.\\.ant a good hottk of 11in~. •·ecognized. In sympathy, The Black Student Alliam:e Union College tile actlttll starts laere A suit whose parts aren't limited to each other: the jacket has a sport~ ive look, pairs with other pants! lafayette CLOTHES INC. 416 State 374-5287 ONCE A !<NIGHT ENLISTED I.N · THE. 1<1 NS~$. . P~AGOON$ 1 • . '. i . ~ AND FOR THE PRICE OF A 6·PACK OF SCHAEFER 6EERE., HE WAS PROMISED A SPECIAL TEST ••• WHBREIN HI$ TRUE. TALENTS WOULD BE. RI:VEALED. ..

ceived 60.00 00.00 95:@0 50.00 25;00 65.00 ** on in one it I tudent esults, out .m. in e. Dr. Jesus the Jesus. nday : cil .. '·'' \! . ' ·'· .... ll;' I ' i J CONCORDIENSJS, Wednesday, November 29, 1972 Open House An estimated 1 ,500 high school students, their parents, and their teachers attended the recent demonstration-open house at Union College's new Science- Engineering Center. An estirnated I ,500 high !lchool students, their parents, ..... their teachers attended the recent demonstration-open house at Union College's new ScieNce- Engineering Center. The students were drawn from ·about 40 high schools in a 10- , county area of northeastern New ·York and some came to the campus from as far as 50 miles 'away for the eveilt. Civil engineering department · n H. Gilbert Harlow, of the open hou:se , said the scientists and ineers at Union were • surprised and gratified at the . response. Letters Continued from Page 2 sheriffs deputies and state troopers arrived on the scene in riot gear. In their attempts to disperse the crowd, tear gas and buckshot were fired. The buckshot dispersed into two students in the crowd. They were killed. The question one should ask in the wake of this tragedy (besides how many loaded shotguns were held and aimed at students}, is why such lethal weaponry was on the scene at all; especially since the students were unarmed. The Governor of Louisiana offered an explanation saying that from ten feet away one can't New Program Cant inued from Page 3 \It really was much bigger than we had expected,\ he said, .. ~..,;;w- \but we were pleased at the way firm: Western Europe, Latin America, and the Far East. The college began the program because of the recent and rapid development of the multi- national firm into a high.ly significant instiwtion and the fact that many such firms are having difficulty finding people who are familiar with both the business firm and the foreign countries in which the firm does business. Interested high school students watch the operation of Union's time-sharing computer terminal at the open house in the Science and Engineering Center. photo by Bill Ericluon. o=• The •:aw LE~ =!~: ~~~e~~~: be o:~ering w~ n intensive review sessions in preparation for the Law ~ u~ School Admission Test taught by professionals at the Howard Johnson's in Latham. Enrollment is riow open for the December 16 LSA T. Review sessions begin n ~ November 25. Call or write for details. u The Law Board Review Center of Albany ~ 8 Pine Street, Glens Fall, N.Y.l2801 bk==>U< >U< (5l~k793-66!! '«k X LUIGI'S RESTAURANT SPECIALIZING IN Italian· American loofl 1125 BARRffi ST. Schenectady Dl 6-9744 Enjoy Sizzling· Steeb and Chops Visit Our Cocktait &r things went, pleased about the . big turnout.\ Visitors saw a wide range of 'Scientific and engineering equipment, ranging from a that played wicked blackjack to an electron microscope, from historic models of mathematical concepts to lasers. Demonstrations covered electrical and optical phenomena, theory of waves, the methods testing for water pollution, a host of other topics. Union udents manned many Prof. Harlow said his group hopes to repeat the open house on an even larger scale next year. ---------. t C!lnu ali tr '~ t t. t t 1st specializing t f p in hot dogs f rize with b.est hot. II Hot Dogs \'\\ m towo I r Ser\'ing Breakfast, t t Lunch & Dinner f t Open 7 days a week t t t 6 Mon.- Thurs. 6-I a.m. t ' Fri. & Sat. 6-4 a.m. t Sunday 9-1 a.m. ~ t_ 2r!._8~·~h2!! __ t The idea is one which has taken several years to fully develop. Professor Alfred L. Thimm and Professor Klemm began initial planning for the program in 1969. According to Professor Klemm, the College has been told they can be reasonably sure of placing graduates of the program in several cities, including Vienna. The program would J in effect\ be an inter-departmental major for an undergraduate student. One advantage to a Union College student who chooses to enroll in the program is that it would be possible for the student to accomplish in five years what would normally take six, as he would graduate with a master's degree. Undergraduates interested in the program ought to see Professor Klemm, who would be the student's faculty adviser in the program. He is m the Humanities Building . - Dave's. Mens Shop 453 State St. (downtown Schenectady) Moffett's Liquor Store l 1505 VanVranken Ave. Schenectady, New York 12308 -ADD TO YOUR ELJUCA T/0/v'- -LEARN MOREABOUTWINES- Job1 Our H-·'f.\'1:. TAST/.\'(j C/.l 'B .\'o Admissiom Chun;e - .\'u R£•quirement.l Each month\~ 'elect a dllfcrcnt \\Inc to h, tc,!L'tl I iJ,rL· ''\ c.nu tlnu 'h'n!! the \\Jnt\ m gn:ut dc:tad \'0 ~ou can learn tthout 1t C>n lhr' ldT<.i thc:rL· \;~Pill tilL' of the lahd \' ;ou t'an rcm,mh'r tht· \\LnL\ m tht· luttHr t\ •mr\·\ '\\' Llo~tL· \\hen ;ou dmc out or \mrl; \\ant\ ~'\'u h<~ttk nl '\\'. 7 discern the difference between a shotgun shell and a tear gas cannister} implying a mistake in loading). One might get the· feeling that somehow something is lacking in an explanation of this nature. However, the fact still remains that two students have been k~lled at Southern University. Within recent years, students have been murdered at Jackson State, Texas State, and Kent State. These colleges arc all located in the South, except for Kent. All the students murdered were Black except for the four slain at Kent. A point worth making here is that many students today feel strongly committed to rna king themselves heard and attempting to shape both their future and that of America. If there is any sincerety in this comrnittment, then all such tragedies invo!Ying the expression of student opinion ·hould be important and recognized. In sympathy, The Black Student Alliance Union College tlae a£fittll starts l1ere A suit whose parts aren't limited to each other: the jacket has a sport- ive look, pairs with other pants! Lafayette CLOTHES INC. Mift)]~fi\¥ra~ fi\~·----------1 ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ONCE A KNIGHT ENLISTED IN THE. KING'$ DRAGOONS, AND FOR THE PRICE OFA 6-PACK OF SCHAEFER 6EERE., HE WAS PROMISED A SPECIAL TEST ... WHE.REIN HIS TRUE. TALENTS WOULD BE. R~VEALED. •• ~~- ~u:m· ... ·. (5;13· .·· ·.·dvA& 0\& .. . ·.· : .. · ·... . . Af.'sv . .. .. . . . · .. ·· .. ·.·.· ... Schaefer Breweries, New York and Albany, N.Y., Balt,more, Md., Leh1gh VaUey. p.,_

I I CONCORDJENSJS, ·wednest{ay, November 29; i97~ All Residence Halls will close on Sunday, December 10, 1972 at noon and reopen Tuesday· January 2, 1973 at noon. During,. this period, college personnel . may enter some rooms for · maintenance and room condition checks. Please make certain that valuable personal items are taken home over this holiday period. Extra security precautions are. taken but the college cannot be responsible for items left in rooms. First class mail will be forwarded through December 20, 1972. All other mail will be held and ·distributed after school reopens. * * * * FINALS FREEBIE!!! Union College Coffeehous~ presents Union's finest in the FINALS FREEBIE Friday, Dec. 1, 8:30 p.m., Old Chapel. Admission, coffee, and donuts FREE. THE OP£N DOOR- QJJa{i:!!f ..Bocf Store- :11 5oo£s for ai( ages ?4 136JAy STRE.Er ~en .Mon.-Sat.-r1o:3o-s:3o Thurs. ti!f j:oo yfWne.;. Jf6-ZJ19 J Cctme in and browse! -·· The local chapter of American) Red. Cross is trying to set up al group .of regular Friday bloed' donors to go to the Regional Center in Albany. AU typ~s of blood are urgently needed. If you can be a donor, sign up with Mrs. Snowden in the Dean <>f Students Office. If a sufficient numl;ler of· regular donors, volunteer, the Red Cross will· provide transportation to and: from Albany. Since the interval between donations must be eight· weeks, a considerable number of volunteers will be needed to furnish an adequate supply at the· Center. * * * * The Political Forum and the Political Science Department will co-sponsor the appearance of · Richard Scammon, noted political analyst and author, at 4:30 p.m. on Monday, December 4, in Hale House Student , Lounge. Mr. Scammon, who serves as N.RC.'s chief election analyst, is also the co-author of The Real Majority. He will discuss the results of the election and the political future. Start your exam week right with the inimitable Scammon. tevrs Dave's. Mens Shop 453 State St. (downtown Schenectady) . Now open 7 days/ week The Brothers Ill under \Union\ management I MEALS -11 a.m.-l2Midnightl Assorted Variety Of Hot & Cold Sandwiches At College Prices 1679 Van Vranken Ave. 374-5679 2 blocks up EXCELLENT DARK BEER ON TAP And saves you up to 25%. Allegheny's Young Adult Card lets you fly whenever you want to (even holidays) and still·get advance reservations. If you're between 12 and 22, what are you waiting for? Stop by any Allegheny ticket counter and purchase your Young Adult Card. Allegheny also accepts all other major airlines' Young Adult Cards. ALLEGHENY AIR SYSTEM' We haw a lot more going faryou. ·B L 1 .. T· H-E. R. _ · ... ·. \Meet seven artists and see 50 Sanders Memorial Ba11quet, etc:, pieces of their work lit a , ·etc. The meeting will. c.ommence ~- · · Reception from 2 to 5 p.m. on . at 5:30 in the Fox Hojlse The Union College Cabaret Sunday, December 3rd, at the· Lounge, with the noise · n).as~ will present its Grand Finale on : Schenectady Museum (3 blocks'. exodus to the hoop game December 2 {that's this Saturday) south of the campus). The artists scheduled for ten of six. All ate and their work were selected by invited · to partake. in the · at 8 p.m. Admission will be· ?Sil!, the Mu~eum's Art Committee· festivities. Don't forget your hats. because we're bringing in all \ from the · Mohawk-Hudson * * · * * kinds of sup.rises, from as far away as New Jersey! Featured Regional Art Show held at the The Jewish Student Union at will be the Union College Albany Institute of Art during. Skidmore College invites all Mountebanks Glee Club,· dance the summer months. Union students to a Chanukah .and poetry from Abby Shutzer, Refreshments will be served free,\ party this Saturday night, Dec ... 2, Amy Chodos, and Gerry * * * * from 8:00 ta midnight. Jt will be Silberstein, a Moog Synthesizer To aU Thespians, past, present, held in. Barett Center on the New concert, .Phil .. Liherace\ and future: Tbis is just t_o let you Campus. There'll be. music·~ Gruppuso on the 88's, and a know that during the first week · dancing, Israeli danc~ttg •. as :We11 reading of ChiJd•s Chri$tmas in of next term, audition~ will Qe • as refreshments. Urtu:m 'O)ll~g¢: Wales by Harry Tipton and held for a student directed Hillel urges all students wh9 ~re Mary John Boylan, with production of The Marowitz interested to attend the festi¥ities. accompaniment by master Hamlet. For those interes.ted, a If you need .a ride,. call Mike Dulcimer artist Paul Delfin. All · script will be posted in The Sachs at 370-4561 or 321 are welcome, with some usual, Gteen Room Gf Nott Memorial. Davidson. It should be grea.t fun! and some unusual, refreshments (The M.H. is an adaptation of Take a break from studying, ~rid· to be served. Shakespeare's Hamlet.) Look for join the party! * * * * · posters early next term with A very Happy Chanukah to Schaffer Library Hours more information. Have a nice you am .. · During Christmas Vacation vacation. * * \' * - Fri., Dec. 8 - 8:30 a.m.-5:00 * * \' • .. •,•••••·••·••Iiiii•'* p.m.; Sat. and Sun., Dec. 9 and \Tired of Shepherd's Pie and • J A. y· :• 10 - Closed; Porcupine Balls? Try eating at • . : •.. · ; · I Mon.-Fri., Dec. 11-15 - 9.:00 o\lpha Delta Phi this Winter. • · ' , ·- · a.m .. -5:00 p.m.; Sat. and Sun., For information call 346-9688, I Billiard- .. ,\;. Dec. 16 and 17- Closed; Chris Freemim or John Foster\ • L n ... ' - .•. Mon.-Fri.; Dec. 18-22 - 9:00 • • * • . • ~' · OU :,-;p ·• a.m.-5;00 p.m.; Come one come 1Jll to trhe first : 1(;7 JaY'S -·· _ · 'I _ S~ 1 t:~: .. Y· Dec. 23-Mon. Jan. 1 meeting of the new, improved ••. __ RELAX _ .·,.·_,_;:·.···. Union College Psych Section, · Tuesday, Jan. 2 - 9:00 a.m.- bef-0re ·this Saturday's basketball • PLAY .POOL ., ... •· II :00 p.m.' Wed., Jan. 3 - game. Business to be discussed • . · 8 Regular hours resumed. will include plans. for the annual •. Daily 10-10 p.m. 1 * * * * - - · New York City Christmas Su11day 2-8 p.m.· · • ~llllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllilllllllllllllllg the annual Colonel ··••• ••• •••• •,•••- I MIKE'S ; reunion, = = i ERIE BLVD. i = = s § : HOT OOGS :: = = 5 HAMBURGERS 5 a s· ~ BEST STEAK ~ = = .ii SA'NDWICiiES 5 = = - - = **** = = = = 1135 Eire Blvd.. 5 iiilllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllll!lllllliS HECK'S T revel Bureau s. ~· MOHA WI{ MALL ~ 370:824 ~ 151_ Barrett St. § 346-3431 § S. No Senia Charge ~ ~<.Q><Q><;Q~t.Q>~ WHEN YOU KNOW IT'S FOR KEEPS. captured forever in the beautiful _ brilliance of a perfect diamond Keepsake ... the perfect symbol of vour special love. Rmgs from $100 to $10.000 Ttade Mark Reg. A.H. Pond Co. • •••••••••••••••••••• HOW TO PLAN YOUR ENGAGEMENT ANi) WEDOING Send new 20 pg. booklet. \Planning Your .Engagement ond Wedding\ plus full c:olor folder.and 44 pg. Bride's Book gift offer oil for only 25~. F-72 Name------------------------~------------ ----~--------------Co .. --------~------~ State ZiP---~ ·KEEPSAKE D·tAMOND RINGS, BOX '10,· SYRACUS.E, N.Y.

81 CONCORDIENSJS, Wednesday, Novemher 29, 1972 All Residence Halls will close on Sunday, December 10, 1972 at noon and reopen Tuesday January 2, 1973 at neon. During this period, college personnel may enter some rooms for · maintenance and room condition checks. Please make certain that valuable personal items are taken home over this holiday period. Extra security precautions are taken but the college cannot be responsible for items left in rooms. First class mail will be forwarded through December 20. 1972. All other mail will be held and distributed after school reopens. * * * * FINALS FREEBIE!!! Union College Coffeehouse presents Union's finest in the FINALS FREEBIE Friday, Dec. I, 8:30 p.m., Old Chapel. Admissioll, coffee, and donuts FREE. THE OPEN DOOR, Qya{!!!J Book Stor£f- J'l 5oof.s jw at( 'Yes fi 136 ..}AY STREET ~en .M.on.-Sat.+ 10:30- s: 30 Tliurs. titf 9:oo ylione + 3fC-ZJ19 Cmne in and' brcwse! j - . \ The local chapter of American) Red Cross is trying to set up a; group of regular Friday blood; donors to go to the Regional Center in Albany. All types of blood are urgently needed. If you can be a donor, sign up with Mrs. Szwwden in the Dean of Students Office. If a sufficient· number of regular donors 1 volunteer, the Red Cross will provide transportation to and from Albany. Since the interval between donations must be eight weeks, a considerable Number of volunteers will be needed to furnish an adequate supply at the Center. * * * * The Political Forum and the Political Science Department will co-sponsor the appearance of Richard Scammon, noted political analyst and author, at 4:30 p.m. on Monday, December 4, in Hale House Student . Lounge. Mr. Scammon, who serves as N.B.C.'s chief election amalyst, is also the co-author of The Real Majority. He will discuss the results of the election and the political f!iture. Start your exam week right with the inimitable Scammon. cu. Dave~s· Mens Shop 453 State St. (downtown Schenectady) Now open 7 days/ week The The Union College Cabaret will present its Grand Finale on · December 2 (that's this Saturday) at 8 p.m. Admission wiU be 75¢, becaHse we're bringing in ail! kinds of suprises, from as far away as New Jersey! Featured wiH be the Union CoJ!lege Mountebanks Glee Club, dance al'!d poetry from Abby Shutzer, Amy ChC!Jd0s, and Gerry Silberstein, .a Moog Synthesizer concert, Phi I \Liberace\ Gruppuso on the 88's, and a reading of Child's Christmas in Wales by Harry Tipton and Mary John Boylan, with accompanimeflt by rna ster Dukimer artist Paul Delfin. All · are welcome, with some usual, and some 1.musual, refreshments to be served. * * * * Schaffer Library Hours During Christmas Vacation Fri., Dec. 8 --- 8:30 a.m.-5:00 p.m.; Sat. and S1:1n., Dec. 9 amd 10- Closed; Mon.-Fri., Dec. I 1-15 - 9:00 a.m.-5:00 p.m.; Sat. and Sun., Dec. 16 and 17- Closed; Mon.-Fri., Dec. 18-22 - 9:00 a.m.-5:00p.m.; Saturday, Dec. 23-Mon. Jan. I -Closed; Tuesday, Jan. 2 - 9:00 a.m.- 11 :00 p.m.' Wed., Jan. 3 - Regular hours resumed. * * * * ~lllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllliillllllliiiiiiiiiJi = = ~ MIKE'S ~ 5 § = = i ERIE BLVD. ! = = 5 HOT DOGS § s s = HAMBURGERS = Brothers III under \Union\ management I MEALS- II a.m.-12 Midnight I s s ~ BEST STEAK E = = Assorted Variety Of Hot & Cold Sandwiches At College Prices 1679 VanVranken Ave. 374-5679 2 blocks up EXCELLENT DARK Bl.\ER ON TAP And saves you up to 25%. Allegheny's Young Adult Card lets you fly whenever you want to [even holidays) and still get advance reservations. II you're between 12 and 22, what ore you waiting for? Stop by any Allegheny ticket counter ond purchase your Young Adult Card. Allegheny also accepts all other major airlines' Young Adu It Cards. I ALLEGHENY AIR 5Y5TEIV(~. \\le have a lot n10re going for you. 5 SANDWICHES § 5 **** 5 = = 5 1135 Eire Blvd. iS ~llllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllll~ HECK'S Travel Bureau § § MOHA \V 1 K MALL § 370-0824 ~ 151 Barrett St. § 346-3431 § & No Sen·icc Chmxc ~ ~<Q><Q><q~<Q>;q,~ \Meet seven artists and see 50 pieces of their work at a Reception from 2 to 5 p.m. on . Sunday, December 3rd, at the· Schenectady Museum {3 blocks SOI:Ith of the campus). The artists and their work were selected by the Museum's Art Committee from the Mohawk-HNdso n Regional Art Show held at the Albany Institute of Art clming the summer months. Refreshments will be served free.\ * * * * To all Thespians, past, present, and future: This is just to let you know that during the first week of next term, auditions win be held for a student directed production of The Maro\'itz Hamlet. For those interested, a script will be posted in Tile Green Room of Nott Memorial. (The M.H. is an adaptation of Shakespeare's Hamlet.) Look for posters early next term with more information. Have a nice vacation. * \' * * \Tired of Shephercl's Pie and Porcupine Balls? Try eating at <\lpha Delta Phi this Winter. For information call 346Ji)68-8, Chris Freeman or John Foster\ * * * * Come one come all to the first meeting of the new, improved Union College Psych Section, before this Saturday's basketball game. Business to be discussed will include plans for the annual New York City Christmas reunion, the annual Colonel WHEN YOU KNOW ITS FOR KEEPS. captured forever 1n the beautiful a perfect d1amond Keepsake .. the perfect symbol of your spec1al love. Sanders Memorial Banquet, etc., 'etc. The meeting will commence at 5:30 in the Fox House Lounge, with the noise mass exodus to the hoop game scheduled for ten of six. All are invited to partake in the festivities. Don't forget your hats. * * * * The Jewish Student Union at Skidmore College invites al:l Union students to a Chanukah party this Saturday night, Dec. 2, f.rom 8:00 to midnight. It will be held in Barett Center on the New Campus. There'll be music, dancing, Israeli dancing, as well as refreshments. Urt·ion College Hiltel urges all students who are interested to attend the festivities. If yo11 need a ride, call Mike Sachs at 370-4561 or 321 Davidson. It should be great fun! Take a break from studying and join the party! A very Happy Chanukah to you all! * * * * ...... : ......... . i JAY 5 ; Billiard : : L oun ~~~~,, . . _, 1 ; 167 Jay St. I II -RELAX- • II • • PLAY POOL • • • • Daily 10-10 p.m. • 8 Sunday 2-8 p.m. = s. •••••••••••••• RmgsfromS100to$10.000TracleMarkReg AH PondCo • •••••••••••••••••••• HOW TO PLAN YOUR ENGAGEMENT AND WEDDING Send new 20 pg. booklet. \Planning Your Engagement and Wedding\ plus full color fo·lder and 44 pg. Bride's Book gift offer all for only 254. F-72 Name ____________________________________ ___ Address------------------------------- City ----------Co.--------------- State 2ip _____ _ KEEPSAKE DIAMOND RINGS, BOX 90, SYRACUSE. I J. I I' r l r I I l. i ,, 1 f '1 t 1 l ;, I '' I 1 1 i ; { ' i I ! .f ··} ) t ' r). ~.. t I ' ~ .. i ' \ l\ .{ ~- . . t· l ' i ·\ '. ;) t I ~. ': I• I r L,: ! 'i l.l!! 1 'I . I h I! r1 .. ~~ ' ' 1.:.' ~ ~

