. . . Vol. 102, No. 4 Wednesday, October 4, 1972 20 cents How Metro '72 Fared: 16,000 Attend Expo by PAUL 'CONNORS Metrofair '72, the fin;t local government exposition in the nation, dosed Saturday evening after hostiQg crowds of well over 15,000 people. The fair, an offshoot of . the time-honored c.ountty fair,, exhibited booths and seminars on Union Campus this past Thursday, Friday, and Saturday, aimed at increasing the interest, knowledge and participation of urban and suburban citizens in their local and county governments. Whi·le state, county, town; and city officials fielded exhibits and pt,Jrsonnel, fairgoers wete given myriad opportunities for personal interaction with their government officials. Local civic organizations such as fhe League of Women Voters, Schenectady Community Action Program, the County Human Rights Commission, as well as Better Neighborhoods, Inc., a private house-rehabilitation organizati!J.n, were present. Industrial · firms such as the General Electric Company,· Environment One, an ecological- oriented research firm, and Niagara . Moh~\fk .. exhibited booths explaining their activities and se·rvices. Ele~tion organizations for local and national Republican and Democratic candidates displayed catchy slogans and buttons. while the John Birch Society plied their wares on the far side of the Fieldhouse. The three-day expt>sition also saw speeches by both Richard G. Lugar and Harold C. ~asser. Lugar, Mayor of the City of Indianapolis. and one _of the 1972 Republican National Convention keynote speakers, addressed a small .gathering in the Fieldhouse Thursday evening. The champion of consolidated government for Indianapolis-Marion County, Lugar praised Metrofair '72 for glVlng Schenectady County residents an opportunity to take part in local government (The Schenectady City Council acting in its role as Urban Renewal Agency met immediately following hitn) and said that cities can become a better place to live through the reassessment of the priorities of metropolitan government. Metrofair, Lugar said, is an indication .of this necessary reassessment. 'Passer, U.S. Assistant Secretary of Commerce for Economic Affairs, spoke Friday to a very small number of citizens on the state of the economy. Passer is the principal economic adviser to the secretary of commerce and is the chief economist of the Department of Commerce. . Saturday's speaker, a \le~ding Democrat,\ did not materialize, with all; including New York City Mayor John V. Lindsay, sending their regrets and best wishes for Metrofait's success. \President Richard Nixon sent a goodwill message to co-sponsors Charles Bens of the Chamber of Commerce and Prof. William BeVier of the Urban Studies ·Program here at Union. The text, forwarijed Thursday on opening day, read as follows: l am pleased to extend my best wisbes to aU ~ttendipg and partictpating in Met.-Qtair '71 of Schenectady. County .today. I applaud· this effor.t to display for the public a full range of urban programs and how they benefit your community and the surrounding areas... With all good wishes. By order of the Commandant, U.S.M.C.: As of 1800 hours 3 Oct. 72 the area bounded by the structure known as the Union College. Me'itioriai Field House is hereby designated off-limits to civilian personnel. Said structure hereinafter assigned appelation U.S.M.C. BRIG #29 SCHENECTADY NEW YORK. Special access passes may be requisitioned at the Nott Memorial box office daily between the hours· of 1300-1700 and 1900-2100. Chester Arthur To Celebrate 142nd Birthday ·Standing tall at the entrance of Jackson's Gardens is a statue of one of Union's most distinguished students, former President Chester A. Arthur. There is little question that Mr. Atthur is the ranking alumnus of our school. While Vice-Pre-sident of the United States, Mr. Arthur witnessed the tragic event of the 1880's ....... the murder of President James Garfield. With the difficult task o'f uniting a divided nation, Chester Arthur assumed the respoil!iibilities of government on September 19tb, 1881, and reacted to our country;s troubles with courage and dignity.· We at Union College must take time out each year to recognize this man's accomplishments for our nation. Tbis Thursday night, October Sth 1 we will ·be celebrating the 142nd birthday of our alumnus. Chet invites the student body to join with him in celebrating his birthday. Festivities begin at dawn and continue ..... ,.. Was Metrofair '72 successful? Indeed, it was. Although some ~· ' 16,000 people (out of an expected· 25,000} att¢nded, the co-sponsors • .. were very pleased .,yith the 10% county turn-out. A lot was ~, lea.rned by the public, government officials, and by the fair sponsors. The crowds are gone. So is the noise. But what is lasting is the communication that existed between people. This made the fair successful and the effor.t of its sponsors all the more worthwhile. photo b) Malcolm Snowden Part of the crowd uf sume 16.000 people who altmded last weekend's Metro fair '72, the first local . . government exposition ever held in the coumry. £\'en Presiden! Nixon sent his regart/.1· tu the succes!:!fitl e1·enr. D,efining The New Term Of Political~emotional-obscurism by AL REISCH Neither journal, dictionary, nor encyclopedia will contain the three words polit!cal-emotional- obscurism cojoined into one term. Yet it is a term that someone must coin. · Political-emotional-o bscurism is manifested in may ways.' The following are but a sampling of the many instances of PEO observed in recent weeks .. CASE #.1: A good friend of mine has always been politically active. He supported McCarthy in '68, took part in the various moratoria, and drove to Washington afl.er Cambodia. He's always been a pacifist, as far as I know, and he consequently tends to support (for political office) any candidate who desires to end the Vietnam conflict in the shortest possible time. He is now a supporter of George McGovern. He's taken a semester off from Brown and is working for McGovern full time m Westchester. It's become a thoroughly emotional thing with him, to the extent that rational discourse on policies etc. is almost impossible. Well, I got a call from him two days ago. He didn't even ask me about my knees, a standing joke; he just launched into the following ... \Did you hear what that son-of-a- bitch Nixon's doing? He's going to end the war; do you believe it - he's going to end the war; he's going to end the God-damned war ... \He went on for almost ten minutes explaining that he was so \Pissed off' he could cry ... \ CASE #2: While walking down State Street towards the center of town I spotted some kid carrying an armful of political bumperstickers. She must have ·spotted my button because she came oVet and started talking about \out candidate's\ chances and all the rest. I had nothing better to do so I just walked along for a while. The topic turned to freedom of speech. She kept saying that every person has a .right to express himself and that any infringement on this right is tantamount to \moral treason\. I kept nodding my head, not so much in agreement (need one agree) but in disbelief. As she talked she stopped frequently and placed \our candidate•s\ bumperstickers over those of his opponent on several cars and signposts. I had to mention that her actions didn't meld with her stated convictions. She stopped, turned, and in what must have been the most emotional voice that 1 have ever heard screamed, \You just don:t care!\ PEO had struck again. Political•emotional-obscurism tends to make one lost sight of why he is doing something and just blindly proceed to \do it.\ The end may indeed justify the means; but not when. the means · abrogate the very end sought. Surely this 1s morally inconsistent. I wonder if my friend actually realited what he was saying or the bumper sticker-er what she was doing. There is certainly nothing wrong in political action; there is certainly nothing wrong in emotional attachment. After all else has failed this may very well prove to be the one thing most worth possessing. Yet when these combine in such a way as to compromise one's own moral beliefs. something has gont' astray. Dawson Back For Folk-Rock' Weekend by ROBERT SHUGOLI, Memorial Chapel will be the setting for two musical happenings this weekend when Jim Dawson and Gun Hill Road appear Friday evening, followed by Glass Harp playing rock and roll on Saturday. Friday's concert will mark folk-artist Dawson's second appearance at Union College. He became the talk of the campus last year when he played two extremely well received sets in Old Chapel. For those of us not familiar with Dawson, I'll briefly explore his musical history. In the mid- sixties Jim Was i.n a two man group called Good Earth. The group went nowhere, largely due to the competitiveness and personal conflicts between Dawson and his partner, Bill Swoffard. Dawson was considered the more prolific songwriter, but Swoffard, a more glamorous performer, decided he'd be better off on his own. So without even telling Dawson, he took on the stage name of Oliver and cut a single entitled \Good Morning Starshine,\ which you might recall was a big A.M. hit. At this point, in late 1968, Jim began to play by himself at various coffee houses in New York City, particularly in Greenwich Village. Dawson soon caught the attention of a few New York critics and people in the music business, including Pete Fornatal and Dennis Elsas, ·presently disc jockies at WNEW- FM in the City. His popularity spread slightly in the New York area but went no further until April of 1971 when his first album, \Songman\ was released by Kama-Sutra. All that can be said about this album is that in my mind it was the finest folk 'record put out in that year, and that's no exaggeration. One album later, Dawson's fame has surprisingly not grown excessively, but he certainly has ·gained a lot of support at Union after last year·s appearance here. He writes, sings, and picks at six and twelve string guitars, accompanied live and on record by a very fine back-up man, Warren Nichols. Dawson plays •simple, pretty tunes that often touch deeply on the human ·emotional experience. He's probably most enjoyable in a concert setting where he relates really well to his audience. Continued on Pare 3

2 CONCORD/EN SIS, Wednesday, October 4, 1972 founded·~ tlnion Colle,e in 1877 Editor-in-Chief.. .......................... ·George Bain Associate Editors ......................... Tim Cain Matt Swartz Managing Editors ........................ Rita Morandi Jim Rostenberg featm;.es Editor ........................... AI Reisch Sports Editor ............................... Bruce Batchelder Photo Editors ........................... , .. Les l{ernan Jeff Weilburg Business Manager ......................... Mike Hurley National Advertising .................... Mark Shulman Subscriptions ................................ Mike Bernstein E · . Ed' xecut1ve ttors ........................ Peter Dickerman Jim Smith Brian Lewis Steve Kelly Andy Richman Ellen Radack Malcolm Snowden Nelson Wei! Larry Wharton Louis S. Snitkoff CONCORDY STAFF Judy Dein Pat Bohen Mitch Lubart Steven Krakauer Marty Sherman Woody Gutherz Phyllis R. Edelman Gail Goodman Robert Shugoll Mark Mindel Bill West Ron Aines Phil Alcabes Dave Str.om Woody Lauer John Polydouris No Coverage? Letters To the Editor-an open letter tol the college community: You are warmly invited to participate in a Conference-. Festival - ARCHlMEDIA - which will take place on the RPI campus 12-15 October. The event will be organized by the School of Architecture, as a university- wide event to be enjoyed by students and facl!ltY throughout. the Institute, as well as friends from adjoining colleges and. communities. The primary purpose is to try to foster better communication of ideas across disciplines, across professional ~oundaries, across \town-gown\ borders, and to examine how various media can help. The program includes major lectures; workshops led by experts in their fields; films; demonstrations; experiments; a large Archiparty with light, sound, color, movement; a multi- faceted event at Troy Music Hall and ... you. Among the distinguished guests. who have agreed to come are Buckminster Fuller; Donald Appleyard (planner, author of \View From the -Road\) Charles Jencks (historian, author of \Architecture 200(}\) and Alan Green (secretary-treasurer of Educational Facilities Laboratories, Inc.) We intend this to be a conference of major stature. But major conferences held on campuses are often inaccessible To th.~ EditQr: To the Editor: Let me. use....,this.--ocpasion to · As a member of last year's thank the students who have Student Senate, I became quite complied witK' ihe new~ pet aware of the shortcomings and regulations and registration. functional problems of that body Unfortunately, there are still a due primarily to its structure. In good tnany animals not an attempt to find a more registered. We have allowed a effective and efficient structure, I period for adjustment, but joined a eominittee whose beginning October 9 the new purpose was to do Just that. regulations will be enforced. After numerous evenings of Animals running loose will be discussion and deliberation, we regafded as strays and subject to came up with a .governing pick-up by the local Animal structure ·that called for meetings Control unit. ·of the entire student ~ody for I have been advised that the deeision on important issues and Health Department is insistent provided for .condensation of the that animals must not be in food Student Senate into a more preparation or diningareas. . effective ' arid 'better informed The detailed pet regulations governing body. · may be picked up in the Office of Although this governing the Dean of Students. structure is not the final solution Edward J. Malloy to all the problems, I feel that it To the Editor: should be given 'a chance to Members of the production prove itself as an improvement staff of The Way We Were have over last year's governing asked me to convey to students, structure. It was in this frame of faculty, and staff of Union mind I decided to be a candidate College their great appreciation to the Steering Committee from for the help they received during the Class of '75. I see one of the the! . t I 1 · f'l · . most important functions of this · r recen oca ton I mmg on campus. That the various parties year's Steering Committee as on the scene should occasionally making a sincere 'effort to find themselves at·cross purposes determine the effectiveness and was inevitable. The annoyances usefulness of this innovative and abrasions were likewise governing structure .. Apathy has expected. What could not have too often been used as an excuse been anticipated by strangers was f ov the ineffecti~imess. of the degree to which the College governing structures. It is my community accepted the hope this year's Steering difficulties with, ort the whole, Committee can come up with grace and good humor. For that useful reasons rather than the film company was grateful, excuses forth~ success or,failure and I know that r speak for' the of the new structure. · ' administration of Union College . Nick Karamber$ '75 As reports and rumors swept the campus last week, to the campus communities. Concordiensis has been asked why it did not provide :o~t~~~t~r;D!t n;i~~al h:~~ any coverage of the incident at Hickok House. The international repute, but its answer is a simple one. No newspaper should print major participants are intended anything that it cannot solidly substantiate. To print to be campus and community when I add my own thanks· for your good cheer in trying circumstances._ Jay Billiards LoWJge Sincerely, der.,.ard R. Carman Director of Publications ~nd Public Relations PLAY POOL-· RELAX Daily 10·9 p.m. Sat.l0·9 p.in. Sun. 2 p.m.-8 p.m. hearsay and rumors can serve only to inflame an. aiready .. me6~~~~· for one or two items, volatile subject - in this case, race relations. notably the Fuller lecture, all Furthermore, what one person learns in confidence events wi11 be free and open to about an event or subiect cannot be printed for ge. neral the public. J Sincerely, consumption without demonstrating a lack of scruples Alan Greenberger, RPI '73 and integrity. No one is willing to be quoted about the Student Coordinator details of the ''roughing\ incident at Hickok House; it is · too touchy a subject. Therefore, it would be useless, if not foolish, for Concordy to report anything which is not honest, factual, and documented. We cannot make too many sacrifices for truth and honesty in our journalism. • • • • • • • • • gsb amr ••• STATE OF OWNI:RSHlP, MANAGEMENT, AND CIRCULATION OF CONCORDIENSIS, as required by the United States Post Office Department, as n regulation with Second Class Mailing Privileges, as per form 3526. This newspaper is published twice -a week during the academic year, with business offices at Old Gym Hall, Union College, Schenectady, NY. 123og. This newspaper serves Union College, and is published by the student body of Union College and the College Trustees. Editor is George Bain, whose address is Box 1205, Union College; Schenectady, NY. 12308. Managing Editors are Rita Morandi and Jim Rostenberg. Union College, Schenectady, NY. Total number of copies printed for the issue of Oct. J, 1972 is 2800; distribution divides as 2320 sold through dealers and carriers, street vendors and counter sales; 230 distributed as free via mail, carriers, or other means; 230 as paid mail subscriptions; 2550 as total paid circulation; 2780 total distribution; 20 copies left over for office use; making a total of 2800 copies. Concordiensis is published every Tuesday and Friday during the sch.oOl year except during examination and vacation periods by the student body of Union College, Schenectady~ N.Y. National advertising representative. National Educational Advertising Service, Inc. College Publishers Representative, National Educational Advertising Service, Inc., N. Y.C. Editorial Office, Old Gym. !.Inion College. Publication OJfite, l'hf! Jewish World Publications, 771 State Street. Schenectady. N.Y. 12307. 346-2356. Entered in the Schenectady post office as Second Class Mail Matter.Subscription 20 cents a copy.$8 a year delivered anywhere in the United States. · Deadline for all copy. which must be typed and double-spaced. is 7 p.m. on Monday and Thursday at the Concordy office, above Old Chapel. Office telephone number is 370-6155, but the office is only in use on Monday and Thursday nights. For all editorial matters, call the editor-in-chief at 393- 1640: for information call Student Activities Office at 370-61 18. BLITHER Anyone interested in playmg intercollegiate golf please report to the Block-U Room (Alumni Gym) on Thursday, October 5, at 3:30P.M. * * * * WANTED Intramural touch football official. See Mr . Lawrence in gym. * * * * Folk-rock group \Gun :Hill Road\ will appear with Anyone interested in Jim Dawson this Friday night in Memorial Chapel. participating in this term's Tf k · · Internation Simulation, to be zc ets are $225 for Union students, $3.00 for all held the weekend of October 27- others. Doors will open at 7:45. . 29, please contact Professor r--iiiiiiif~-, ,- ------ -t Walber in Humanities 121 or caU 370-6215 as*so~n a; p~ssible. t <traualitr 1 5 . t **LOST** A winter coat. It is Dave;s. Mens Shop L t beige, and corduroy, with four ., 453 State St. f 1 t f bottons down the front. It's . (downtown Schenectady) . S specializing 1getting a little chilly around here · .....,..._ ........... _____ .....;~--JI f ·p· • in hot dogs f . r.lz· e with b.es.t hot ·t and it would be nice to have my f nice warm coat. If you firtd it, g~:!~: !.oso:.m,. ' Rea;~~::le .. , .. H·.o.t o' oa_s.' sauce I~ town' please get tn touch with John D Pearlstein in 214 Davidson or ·R d F I I' f call 370-422~ .. * * * ' e . ·. ox nn t s~~::: :r;;:~:· ~-. t The Social Com'mittee Charcoal Burgers !·f 0 · · · t announces that Dave Mason 8-Midnight .. pen 7 days a week tickets will go on sale for Union Cold Sandwiches · 'f t students only next Monday; M · 't • · on.~ hurs. 6-la.m. · t October 9. On Saturday, October J ~ Str t . F · . · 14 ff ay ee r1. & Sat. 6-4 a.m. · · · , o -campus ticket outlets will · · · · open in Albany and Troy. Buy ASK ABOUT THE • · Su~day , , . 9 -l a.m. . . t yours next week and avoid being \ll for 10 CLUB\ t_....,..Er!!..B_Ivd.,_Sch!.Y· __ .a shut out-a sell-out is expected. ' * * * * Concordy will be on the floor again Friday night and will resume its regular schedule next week. Please excuse the copy and layout hassles that forced the 24 MARRIED COUPLES P#:lrt- Tim·e Job ..------------- .. -------------- ...... hour· delay of this issue- even a . FOR LIQUOR & WINE ~ewspaper can catch a common i. Try . JAKE' ·L·tP.STE·tNtS f Eold. Deadline continues to be i · ights - the same time as the · ·=·m. Monday .and Thursda} 1 464 State Street eneral meetings - .at the office FR 4-ll88 .llbove Old ~haeel ~Acr>· ~~~~----~------------------~----J 1 -- .... --·~·.........------,___f - \ .. - ~ .. M ... - ~ .. - - - ,.. .,. \ ... , • 0' ~ ft .. Care for other people's children or. homes while on vacation. Free r~om and 'board~ wo~k as you want. Must have car, I chUd allowance. $100!/week. Contact 355-8395 anytime, 2 Regina Dr:, Schenectady. ' . .

last year's became quite comings and of that body structure. In a more t structure, I whose just that. of beration, we governing for meetings ~ody for Issues and of the a more t informed governing nal solution · feel that it chance to governing frame of a candidate from one of the ons of this as 'effort to and innovative has excuse of lt is my Steering up with than oriailure mhera~ '75 with. all f f • ogs f hot 'f ' t t :.J k t t .. t ' t J . . ' CONCORDIENSIS, Wednesday, October 4, 1972 3 \Cabaret'' 1 . 1, SetToOpen by SAM and JANET EVENING A growing need for more div.erse forms of community expression in the arts has led to the establishment of the Union College Experimental Theater. Designed for the person who ~{ppreciates an atmosphere of subtle hedoni\sm the theater will offer opportunities for students and faculty to a·ct, direct, design, and otherwise J!isplay the~r talents on a smaller scale than IS necessary for a place like Nott MemoriaL · · Now, what do we mean -by_ tha:t? Well, if you're a person who has created something, or has found something interesting te perform, you now have a for-um in which to express this. We are attempting to expand upon the existing guitar-and- piano framework (already well- covered by the Coffeehouse) into thi'ngs . like readings, improvisation, skits, short plays, exotic music, · an<l combinations -of all tbese. Writers who deal in other· nfodes than folksongs will have a display-place for their material. So much for philosophy. Our opening .perfonp.ance, presented in conjunction·· with the · Coffeehouse,_ will be held on Friday, October 13, in Old Chapd. Refreshments will be an fntegrar part of eXperimental theater, as we believe that theater- and the stomach go together. We will be serving cappuccino, tea, coffee, and pastries. The accent will be on service; trained waiters and waitresses will be in attendance. RESEARCH MATERIALS ·· ·All Topics Semf for your des~-riptive, up-to,date, · 128·page, mail order catalog of 2,300 quality research p~p(lrs, ~n~!ose· $1.00 to cover postage· arid hanllling. RESEARCH UNLIMITED 519 GLENROCK AVE., SUITE 203 . LOS ANGELES, CALIF. 90024 (213) 477·8474 t 477-5493 \We need a local salesman\ Our raison d'etre is community involvement. We are offering the new \Cabaret\ as a p·Jace where students and faculty who do not have the time to involve themselves in a major theatrical production can get their creative rocks off in a smaller, more manageable atmosphere. Ultimately we hope to establish a poll of writers, actors, craftsmen, and directors. Anyone interested in any aspect should contact Harry Tapton cj o the note boards in the Nott Memorial Gteen Room. For more information, and sign-ups for potential participants, check the 'board marked \Cabaret.\ Dawson Concert Continued from Pace I The second act, preceding Dawson, is Gun Hill Road, a folk-rock trio from Westchester that plays original material in the same vein as America and Crosby, Stills, Nash, and Young. Their second album has been released on Kama-Sutra, following a split with Mercury Records. Tickets for the 7:30 concert are $2.25 for Union students and $3.00 for all others. As usual tickets are presently available at the Student Activities Office. The Chapel doors wi'll open at 7:45. Saturday night's 8:30 Glass Harp show will be a one dollar event. This group has made a transition from hard rock to a softer but still lively rock and roll sound, as evidenced by their -re~ent album release on Decca, simply entitled \Glass Harp.\ Levrs • Dave's\ Mens Shop 453 State St. (downtown Schenectady) f•: I ...,. .... : ~ . 7 t ~ -:-·:~·L.UIQJ'S '' ~ :. RE·S·Y.A:U.RANT \' - . . ~ . - . SPECI.,\LIZING JN Italian • AIIMrl~ FOOII IllS BARRETT St.· Schenectady Dl 6-9744 . . !njoy Sizzlin~r· S~ks and Chops Visit- Our Cocktail' ta,.. ' Try-outs for the. Mountebanks' major fall production, J.B., will be held this Wednesday, Thursday, .and Friday, October 4- 6. A large cast is needed, so the entire college community is encouraged to try out. Sign-up sheets are in the Nott Memorial green room. Crew sign-ups for both J.B. and The Brig wiH also be in the green room, and we need everybody who can do anything, so please feel free. Test- drive a Mountebank: plant a tree. BLITHER Rapid Reading courses are being offered FREE this term. Each student is given a test to determine his weakness before a course of study is planned for the individual. For · further information see Mrs. Reid in the AOC Office in Stoiler Hall, the old Geology Building. * * * * Jane Fonda, Tom Hayden, and foroo,er HOW George Smith wi'II speak _in Memori~l Chapel ·next Monday, October 9, at 4 p.m., as part of a visit to the Capital District. '* * * * * * * * Gary G. Williams, Assistant Dean for Admissions and Student Affairs, from the Graduate School of Business, Stanford University, Stanford, California, will visit the Union College Campus on Friday, October 13. He plans to talk to as many Union students as possible about the Master of Busi·ness Administration Program offered at St!l-nford. DiscJlssion will center around the admission requirements, the financial assistance offered, and living style in the Stanford area. There will be a meeting for all. seniors interested in graduate schools {not including law or mediCine) on Thursday, October 5 at 4:30 p.m. in Social Sciences 016. At that time entrance procedures to graduate schools and information concerning scholarships and fellowships will be discussed. · All students are invited to an open meeting of the Social Committee at 7:30 p.m. Thursday jn the Hale House Lounge. Come and give your suggestions for entertainment, find out how we hook whom We book, voice your gripes and questions. Freshmen interested in working for the Social Committee should attend. * * * * To whom it may concern: We, the beloved football cheerleaders of Union College, in order to form a more perfect Union do hereby request the following: He will also offer information regarding the J.D. - M.B.A. Program, th.e Urban Management Progr..am, and a new interdisciplinary Master's DegFee Program in Health Services in which some of the courses are taken at the Business School. Students who wish to take advantage of the opportunity to * * * * The Political Forum. an organization devoted to the promotion of interest in politics and public affairs by means of a speakers' program, will hold its first meeting of the year on Wednesday, October 4 at 7:00 in Humanities 112. Officers will be chosen and plans future activities will be discussed. All interested persons are welcome. * * * * Environment Proposal meet with Dean Williams may by TOM LUNDQUIST sign up at the Director of This November 7, the voters of Placement's Office, Lamont New York State will decide the House. fate of one of the most sorely * * * * f AU people interested in needed pieces o state ushering at the Jim Dawson environmental legislation, the concert this Friday night, or the Environmental Quality Bond Act Glass Harp concert on Saturday, of 1972. The Bond Act, which please contact Bob Feih at 370- _ appears on the ballot as 0239 (110 Oavidson), or sign up Pror}osition f, wl.H provide $1.15 in the Student Activities office as billion for the enhancement of New York State's environment. soon as possible. * * * * The monetary breakdown is as follows: The Schenectady Protect Your Environment Club will meet this -Pure Waters- $650 million Wednesday at 7:30 in the will go directly to municipalities infirmary basement. The on- for the construction of new, · effective sewage treatment campus paper recycling program and the Environmental Bond faci-lities. Adequate sewage issue are among the topics that treatment can help prevent the win be discussed. All (or perhaps eutrophication of our rivers and any) interested students and lakes. faculty are invited to attend. -Solid Waste and Recycling- * * * * $175 million will provide 50% P~t)i/sahella· s (;!i\ '?&'':¥ ~ \91 PHARMACY, INC. 527 Union St. Schenectady _N.Y. Ph. 370-2300 WELCOME UNION STUDENTS grants toward the purchase of recycling facilities. This will help phase out the use-and-dispose philosophy of the landfill and open dumps, replacing it with cyclical resource recovery. Levrs Dave's. Mens Sbop . 453 State St. (downtown Schenectady) I. That all students should sit on Alexander's west side (cl0sest to the gym). 2. 3. That aU students should be mentally-ill-prepared with good spirits for each game. ·4_ That all students should memorize the new cheers. See you in double at the next game. • Love, The Flying Dutchmen -Land- $175 million for the preservation of wilderness areas in the Adirondacks and Catskills, protection of the fragile wetlands. acquisitiOn of parklands and preservation of . other natural areas. -Clean Air- $150 million for the abatement of air pollutants from government buildings, such as incinerators, schools and • hospitals. Your help is needed to insure the passage of the Environmental Quality Bond Act. The Schenectady Protect Your Environment Club and the Environmental Bond Coalition are organizing public education efforts to inform New York residents about Proposition L If you would like to help, contact Tom Lundquist at Sigma Phi {370-3617). or attend the PYE meeting this Wednesday at 7:30 in the basement of Silliman Hall. PROCTOR'S ~~:.~~ STATE ST., SCHENECTADY Oct. 4-10 Thunderball You Only Live Twice Oct. I 1-17 Further Perils of Laurel & Hardy \ ... there is no career that can match BUSINESS in diversity of intellectual interest ... A vigorous,Jree society calls for the highest type of business leadership . .. \ tan ord · -B r Da.;.br~se\\ct~';n~~s 'l 1517 Van Vranken Avenue U Oct. 18-24 Fillmore Panic In Needle Park Oct. 25-31 Play it Again, Sam Last of the . ·- REPRE~ENTATIVE (;OMING t:O CAMPUS A representative. of th~:Stanford G;aduate School of Business will be on campus to discuss, with inter- ested ·students, the exceptional educational oppor- tunity of the.Staoford MilA. Program, FRIDAY, OCTOBER 13 Appointments maybe made through The Dir-ector of Placement, Lamont }louse. · The Stanford MBA program is a two-year general management course designed for highly qualified men and women who- have majored in liberal arts, humanities, science, or engineering. . .·TID;. STANFORJ?. UNIVERSITY GRADUATE SCHOOL OF BUSINESS STANFORD. CALIFORNI~ 900.5 - Phone FR 4-5193 COATS - SHEETS - BLANKETS - DRAPES n SWEATERS- BLOUSES ·_ U. ... !II ~dent~.Rec~~ve ~~isco!nt .. .J LOWEST LIQUOR AND WINE PRICES IN N.Y. STATE at .Moffet's Liquor Store CORNER OF VAN VRANKEN AVENUE GET YOUR CHILLED WINES EARLY FOR THE ALFRED CAME Red Hot Lovers @rs Jean's East Shop for the Newest and Latest in Styles Carl's Main Floor ; '

4 Sports Huddle .. : I Canada In Upset by BUFFALO Team Canada did it. Or I should say \Paul Henderson did it.\ The flashy forward of the Toronto Maple Leafs rescued Team Canada from the brink of extinction by scoring the series winning goal with 34 seconds left in the 8th and final game of the Russian- Canadian series. After getting their asses handed to them in Canada, the outlook for a Team Canada comeback in Russia was certainly bleak, to say the least. They were headed' to Russia to face a different rink, with the job of winning three of the four games. Beating Russia three out of four on their own ice is a task comparable to beating the Bruins in Boston Garden - it just doesn't happen very often and when it does happen, it is classified as a major upset. Well, Team Canada pulled a major upset, which in itself is .amazing. But the truly amazing thing about the whole series is that the best hockey players in the NHL were not there. Bobby Orr was still recovering from knee surgery and Bobby Hull, Derek Sander-son, and Gerry Cheevers were no longer members in good standing of the NHL. The rule that said that a player had to have signed his NH L contract to be eligible for Team Canada is one of the most absurd rules in organized sports. How a team can be classified as the .. best of the NHL .. when the best are11't even on the team is beyond me. The goalies on the team also left a great deal to be desired. Only one of the three, Tony Esposito, is great. Both Ed Giacomin and Gilles ViiJemure, or at least one of them, should have been included on the roster. In future series, which looks probable, there should be someone on the selection committee who knows a good goaltender when he sees one. If there isn't, Team Canada might not be so lucky next time. Union Harrie,rs To Rebuild This Year by ALIAS S!\fiTH The Garnet harriers- have a new look for 1972. There is little doubt that this will be what is called a ~\rebuilding year\ as the team has lost five of its top seven runners from last year, including th.e top two. Although only two, Bryant Moeckel and Dave Rice, graduated, two very promising freshmen transferred, while one man was lost to injuries_ There ase many new faces in the crowd; however, and the thin- 1 clads are sure to come through their season in fine form_ Added to this year's roster are juniors Crawford Cutts, Mark Mindel, and Mark Burdelle, and seniors Rich Mann and Rich Jones. Cutts was New England Prep School champion in 1969. He went to Fordham College, where he turned in a 4:20 mile as a freshman, before transferring to Union in '71. Crawford is anxipus for competition, having sat out the mandatory year of eligibility last year. In addition, a total of ten very enthusiastic frosh have joined the team, giving a substantial boost to the morale. Included amon)! them are Steve Jones, a 4:25 miler from Saratoga, Jim Boyer, and Paul Spence. Steve finished first in the time trial over Union's 5.6 mile campus course last Saturday, and will easily fill one of the vacated top spots. The other two are very much in contention for the fifth, sixth, and seventh positions. Others who will probably run near the front are Greg Hamlin, Jim Smith, and of course Red McCabe, along with two or three freshmen, who hopefully will be pushing the leaders. which is designed to increase lung capacity. Unfortunately, his duties as school trainer often prevent him from accompanying the team. The harriers open t'heir schedule on the road, running against Trinity ·on October 14. Last' year,' Union . shut . out Trinity, 15-50. They return home October 18 to meet Middlebury, who lost to the Garnet last year . by only one point, 27-28. HappiiF anticipating the upt·oming cross country sea:f.on is \Red\ MeCahe. tevrs Dave's· Mens Shop 453 State St. (downtown Schenectady) • \'. !(..'~- ~ Wednesday, October 4, 1972 Garnet's Perfect Record Erased by Larries, 16-6 by MARK W. MINDEL The Union College footbaH team made enough boots of their own Saturday to spell defeat, hut it was Hans Farnstrom's hot right foot that sent the Garnet's chances for an un'beaten season sailing over the goaiposts. The · Larries' surprising sophomore set a new St. Lawrence kicking record by booting three fieldgoals and art extra point as St. Lawrence defeated Union, 16-6. The north country provided some special touches of its own as the game was played in a constant bitter- cold drizzle in Canton, N.Y. But it was Union who must take full blame for the loss. Every S.L.U. score was set up by a Garnet miscue or poor play, and several Union scores were muffed by turnovers. As play began, a poor Union punt plus an ensuing roughing the kicker penalty after Union held set the Larries up on the Garnet 25 where Farnstrom banged a 42 yarder through the posts. · Union returned the following kickoff to midfield and marched to the Larrie 16 where the first of five Garnet turnovers (Union lost three of frve fumbles and was intercepted twice) stopped the ~~i_ve ap:~ established ~he m?de forthe day. Late in the quarter, sloppy punt coverage gave St. Lawrence the ball on the Union 27, where workhorse back Barry Dutter slashed to the six on six straight Cl!rries_. The deJense held as it would for almost the entire day, but Farnstrom popped a 23 yarder through to · open the second quarter. Down 6-0 with 14:50 left in the half, Union started its slow Arcade-~ Electronics Proctor's Arcade 370-3680 There are so many places to buy stereo equipment that a choice is hard to make. Buy at a !Jiscount store? An audio dealer? A variety store? The choices are endless. These points may help you · decide. A store that deals exclusively in audio equipment has more h11s more interest and : .knowledge in delivering quality ' equipment at a reasonable price. Authorized factory service on . the premises is a sign of responsibility and efficiency. It insures prompt and reliable i attention to any problem you may have with your·purchases. Individual attention to your needs - a low key sales approach : - a wide representation of! I several wide quality lines. All ' these plus the above add up to make your shopping pleasent and 1 your choice wise and rewarding. march for · a score.. With was oh their' side at last. Four Westbrook sweeping to a first plays later, however, the drive down plus a nine yard gain, ended on the six. Union rushed past midfi~ld but . . Wtistb(o«:ikBu:sted faced a fourth and tw<;> situation Union got ~the ball· right back and decided to punt, as the defense held, and on the A Hitched Hike punt a wouldc..be St. Lawrence Lou Miller bounced his kick tackler busted into Westbrook as inside the Larrie I 0; but the play he was receiving the punt for a 15 was called back for an illegal yard ;penalty. With· the baH on block, with Union penalized 15 the .Lartie 40, Dave Rearic came yards. On the next hike, the ball in at quarterback and moved the sailed over Miller's head and ball inside the 10, but once more S.L.U. took over on the.8. Again the Dutchmen failed to score. the big line held, but again it was With the fourth quarter Farnstrom who hooked a smaU underway, Bruce Mathias made a chipshot of 20 yards around the beautiful 38 yard punt return to left goal post for the score. the St. Lawrence 25 yard line. Westbrook nearly broke loose Then Rearic, looking like the on the kickoff as he scampered passer of did, heaved a long pass 48 yards to the St. ·Lawrence 40, into- the outstretched arms of but Union failed to score turning Geoff Walker for the· Dutchmen's the ball over on downs inside the only score of the game. Needing 20. The half ended with no a two point conversion to stay in further scoring. the contest, Union went with the WitJl the second half only pass play but as it fell seconds olc;l, q.l.iarterback Bobby incomplete,. the .game · for all Mitehell handed the ball io a- intent was over. . . • ·.,. slipping AI Albano, whose · Union outgained St. Lawrence facemask knocked the ball loose. with 216 yards on 70 plays to 162 • One play later, a 32 yard: TO in. 6I.- The· Dutchmen also had 15 · pass from Jeff Kantor to Steve fitst.downs to lhe Lar.ries' 9~ Sutton, the only bit play of the _Ron Westbrook totalled 195 day for the Larriesl made the yards receiving, rushing; and score 16-0. Union now had to returning, 104 gathered on piay .catch-up bali. . - · kickoff returns. Dave Rearic With 8:40 remaining in the completed 6 passes for 51 yards, third quarter, St. Lawrence ~nq Qe9f( 'Y_al~er .gra_b~ed t~r~e fumbled on its 46 and Union passes ·f-or· 30· yards. Bob ·Hesse recovered. The Larries :fumbled thrilled a crowd of 35 former frat six times.in the cold and raih, but brothers as \the leader of the pit\ four of them bounced right ~&ck pulled <!own bis.. fir~>t career to them, one for a first down. reception off the hands of an Jack Siedlecki threw a 21 yard enemy lineman. fourth <!o1.yn option pass to Union plays Lambert Bowl WestbrooK' for a fjr.st down, and winner; Alfred University, made another on a leaping, winners of 11 straight contests, running to yard scamper, and the this Saturday at 1:30 on Garnet looked. as if momentum Alexander Field. I • • • • Cut Along Dotted Line and Save Bor Hungry Time • • • • • -. I --- I I I i KWIK- KO~OK i • ' • • :>' • , .. ' .. ! T AKE-0_· ·uT SHOP ! I I I 1790 ALTAMONT AVENUE I I (NEXT TO DUNKIN DONUTS) I I ROTTERDAM, N.Y. I I I I We'll Deliver our FAMOUS \KWIK-I(OOK\ I I I i SUBMARINES I i ~ TO YOUR CAMPUS. JUST CALL ~ : 356-1600 : t· I 1 Minimum O!.der 3 Subs 1 I ~~~~~~~ I I I t KWIK-KOOK SUBS ! l I I I I I 1 1 Save This MENU For Future Reference 1 I I I r----·COUPON-~---. 1 I- Times in Saturday's time trial were very promising, even more so than last year. In '71 the Garnet ran up a 6-2 record, beating RPl for the first time in I 3 years, and took second place in the state championships. f ' I' DIAMOND ENGAGEMENT I 1 I THE FINES:r QUALITY MEATS AND FRESH I & WEDDING RINGS 1 Name I I VEGETABLES, SERVED. ON A DELICIOUS ROLL I First-year coach Shamil S. Uzuner (you can call him Samll)y) is enthusiastic about the team. He would like to spend as much time as possible with the runners, especiallY. to teach them_ his technique of ~eep breathing, _ 3,000 ring selections in all I 1 I I styles at 50% discount to 1 Addre!ls 1 I - 95 I students, staff, and faculty. Buy 1 1 I CHEESE ........................ , · 1 direct from leading manufacturer 1 Phone I J ~:~AM;···:::::::::::::::::::::::: ~ ~ : and SAVEl 1 h eilrat 5179, ·}4 I I I MIXED .............................. 1.10 I carat only $299. For free eolor I MJR, I I DOUBLE MIXED ........ , ... 1.79 , 1 folder write: Box 42, Fanwood, I I N.J. 07i23 ------------- J Plus Sales Tax 1 ~~------------~~------------~~·1 . I •i••·······-··············-···. '\

ast. Four the drive ight back on the L-awrence as fora 15 baH on came the nee more quarter made a to line. like the pass arms. of Needing stay in with. the it fell for all .... ,... to 162 • !).ad 15 · · 9~ 195 . and on Rearic 1 yards, three ·Hesse frat the pit\ career of an Bowl iversity., on I I I I I I I I- I I • I I • I I I I I I I I I I I I I I I I I I I I I I I I • I I I I I I I I I ·I I I '\ . . . founded at Union College in 1877 Vol. 102, No. 5 . Friday, October 6, 1972 20 cents Wylen Outlines Function of Dean Run-offs In Races For Three Committee Posts by ANDY RICHMAN About the sixth and seventh weeks of each term the requests of Union students foi· course withdrawals and irrcompletes come pouring into the office of the Assistant Dean of the College. As most Union upperclassmen know, to obtain one of the above has not been a very easy task in the past.· But chances might be a little better this year with the appointment of Dr. Herbert E. Wylen as Assistant Dean of the College. Dean Wylen was formerly an Assistant Professor Df Physics and Chairman of the Comprehensive· Education Board at Union. He received his B.S. from the University of Delaware and his M.S. and Ph.D. from Bryn Mawr College. Dean Wylen's appointment coincides with the departure from Union of former Assistant Dean .of Faculty Chades Olton, to become Associate Vice President of Academic Affairs at the State University College at Buffalo, and the appointment of former· Assistant to the President, Gordon Bingham, as Dean of Stt!dents .at Hamilton College. When asked why he felt he had been selected for·- ·the · He;tn'-s Office, Dean Wylen stated that the combination of his science background, his strong commitment to the Comp. Ed. program, and the fact that he interacts well with students were all qualities that Acting Provost Enteman felt the Assistant Dean should have; Dr. Wylen described the Dean's job in four p;,uts: the academic counseling of students, the ,administrative liaison to Comp. Ed.,· the administrative liaison to the Academi~ Opportunity Consortium, and the coordination of faculty research .grants. . Dean Wylen feels that regarding academic counseling he must be· flexible and fair but at the same time help to maintain an academic rigor at Union. He realizes that the Office of the Dean is dn-~stically different from that of the Physics professor. He points qut that there are different pressures and different problems in the Dean's office which range, when compared to a Physics professor'.s office, over a wider cross-section of the college. This had led Dean Wylen to \become aware of the question of education in general, especially, what is a liberal arts education?\ Dr. Wylen, due to his scientific ba_ckground, has his concept of what a pre-professional education should be, but he feels that he must study the idea of the li.beral arts education and what it should be in order to be able to establish policies and attain some degree of academic rigor. On the subject of thematic majors, Dean Wylen believes he will be more sympathetic than his predecessor, who in fact did not believe in the thematic major. Dr. Wylen goes further to point out that the C )liege has approved some transdisciplinary majors, although at this time none of the programs have been approved. Also, Dr. Wylen sees, in the forseeable future, a change photo by Jeff Weilburg Assistanl Dean of F{J<\Uity Herbert E. Wylen in the policy of declaring one's major upon first entering Union. by DON HAMERMAN For a scat on the Committee The electior:~s for the Stl·ering on Committe-es in th,· Committee, hidden bv non- Sophomore class. Bruce So~tck information and an unfa-miliarit\ · daimed a deci~i\c \ictor). with the candida.tes, particular!; . ~arnering about StF( nf the Hlle. in the freshman class. were held Snstek \\as one of three Wednesday night. candidate' on the slate. The In'the Senior class a runoff n:sults for thl' Discipline was held between Frank AHoca Committee were not sn clean cut: and John Quirk, candidates for a runoff was held hetWL'c.·n l.oi~ the Committee on Committees. Brust man and Art h1st. Bruce Goldberg, the solitary The results in the Freshman student on the slate for rhe class were strangely balanced for Discipline Committee was, a group that knows neither the naturaily, deClared the winner. workings of student government The class of 74 had onlv two mor the candidates running for candidates for each office. -Marty the obscure institution. Woody Sherman hawed to Don Lauer was the only one up for DeCesare for the Committee on the Discipline Committee. He. as Committees and John Perlstein was Bruce Goldherg of the Class fell to Pat Wardell for the of '73, was easily instated. Paul position on the Oisciplinl' Corwin and Man: Altman ran Committee. against each other in the final Run-off Results 1973 Seat On Committee on Committees john Quirk- 90 Frank Allocca~ 73 1975 Seat On Committee of Discipline Artjust-150 Lois Brustman- 90 1976Seat0n Committee on Committees Paul Corwin -164 Marc Altman- 95 hallnt for a ~eat on the Committee on Committees. !'he small amount ol ~nailah!l.' information and the lack of candidate publicity soml'how did not stop the st udcnts from \nting. Dean Wylen, during his tenure at Union, has been deeply involved with the Comp. Ed. program, both as Chairman of the Comp. Ed. Board and now as administrative representative to it. Dean Wylen believes that there will be some kind of change Sh • • 1 E I • c • :~~~re~:nt. th~urt~e~~~~e. E~~ . . ort -CirCUit n ectrl c lty; believes that Comp. Ed. 10 and Comp. Ed. II are not the best o· . k M p R. k courses available to freshmen as . . ar ness · ay OS e IS they now stand, and hopefully they can be improved .. After a by PHYLUS EDELMAN recent study he conducted Aware of the power shortage concerning grading in the Comp. throughout the summer. it wasn't Ed. program, Dean Wylen found until 1 came hack to Union .. that the grades in. Center II .College-. in. September that. the Comp. Eds are higher than those impact of the crisis really hit me. in Center I. He attributes this to As 1 st~.:~mhled my way across the fact that the type of grading campus one moonless night. I in Center I Comp. Ed.s is similar found it difficult to believe to regular Center I courses, El · · \ ectnc City\ was dimming its usually subjective. However, lights. Once off campus I saw the Center II courses are usually lights of Schenectady still shining graded quantitatively and while Union nestled in nighttime therefore rigidly compared to obscurity. Center 1'1 Comp. Eds. DeaH Since that first night when I Wylen would like to establish felt my way across campus, some kind of balance in ·the Barbie, Bobby (her dog), and 1 grading of. the Comp. Ed. took a quick survey of the lights program. w ,. d As the administrative liaison to 0 n c a 11) pus· e 1 0 u n approximately one-third of the the Academic Opportunity lights out. Some sections, most Consortium, Dr. Wylen admits · · notably South Lane by the tennis that he is starting from scratch. courts and the roaoway up by the He would like Union to attract Field House, lacked lights. those students with the least completely. · amount of fisk (those who Wilf Realizing~the potential risk this survive), but still eligible under 9arkness posed to :;ecurity and the AOC. The Union program safety on campus, 1 made my will be locally oriented. way (during daylight hours) to Dean Wylen's office is taking the office of Mr. John H. over the coordination of faculty Kleinkauf, Director of Security research grants from Dean and Safety. There l was assured Lichterman's office. Dean Wylen that the lights would shine again. sees a more active role in this Mr. Kleinkauf informed me that area than ever before. The dean many of the lanterns on campus will seek out funds and then find out which faculty members can use the money. Previously, a Continued on Page 3 10 cards are available at the Office of the Dean of Students; Old Gym Hall. •• 1he social committee will present GLASS HARP in concert tvmorrow (Saturday) ni~hl in Metnorial Chapel at 8:30. Tickets are only $1.00. Jim Dawsoh is toni$rhl lit 8:30. ;-:·:$-t~ih> '-·>~· photo by .Jeff Weilbul'g Dire<\tor <?f' Se£\urit.r and ·Sc{f'ety, John H. Kfcinkat(t' , were knocked oil! hy a short in .'the power lines that occurred last year. '[he long-range .plan or the cortege has been to'create its own interloop system, independent from outside power sources. The Trustees have given their · approval of thi's interloop system which will cost approximately $50,000. Tempor'hrily, high- intensity floodlights haw been installed by LaMont House and Old Chapel. For traffic reasons these lights will probably remain. There has hecn a suggestion that lights also be instailcd by North College and behind Potter and Raymond Houses. Lighting is to be installed along the road and across the bridge hy the Field House. Admittedly there has been criticism concerning the aesthetics ol floodlights on campus. Other' have complained ahout the glare caused by these lamps, dangerous to hoth motori~ts and pedestrians. Mr. Kleinkaul i·eport!-. that there ha vc been no incidences on campus to hi' knowledge, hut advises all o.t udents to usc some common sense when walking across campus at night. He suggests for all students and especially co-eds to \whenever possible travel in pairs during j)eriods when there is little or no !tctivity on campus. A \'oid heavily shrubhed, landscaped areas that would afford hiding places (for unseemly characters) ... Walk .in the open, avoiding building lines.\ lo light up darkened areas. studenb could carry 11ashlights. In dkct as of this war. Mr. Kleirikauf noted that ;111) ~o-t.·d having LJUalrm about tra\.ding back to her dorm roo.m alter dark from anyplace on campti~ can call campus security to escort her. From a L'Cntrex phone .a co- ed need only dial 614X or 6l7X to reach Richmond desk. which will direct a patrol car to escort the ·student back. Concerning general campus security, Mr. Kleinkauf disclosed that there arc two guards patrolling campus 24 hours eaC\.:h day. As of 4:00 p.m. tht•rc are students and campus patrols on duty at Richmond House, except Saturday and Sunday when security is there all day. As of H:OO p.m. there is also a student on duty in North College. ll there is any i.nddent on campus , Mr. Klcinkauf stres,ed that students should not hesitate to call the campus patrol. Despite the attention campus guards would like to pay to campus \:security. Mr. Kleinkauf acknowledged otht!r duties which guards have that take them away from their primary responsi hility of security on campus. These duties include writing tickets to students. facult). and stall who do not abide hy the school's parking regulations, checking fi fL' extinguishers, and turning off lire alarms \accidentally'' activated, as well as unlocking door~ ror students who have forgotten their keys. To help aid campus security, Mr. Kleinkauf appeal~ to all memhers of the cam.pu' community to tr) to pre\ent the calling of sccurit) guards lor thL' latter reasom. Still on the !-.Uhject of campus security, Mr. Klcinkauf noted \that 90-9sr·; of the theft in dormitories is the result of students not locking and securing rooms.\ Though locks are no as~urance that a theft will not occur, the lock is a deterrent, a delaying factor. and, if ·theft occurs. it can provide evidence of Continued on Page 3

2 CONCORDIENS!S, friday, October 6, 1972 founded at tJnion CoUeze in J877 Editor-in-Chief ............................ George Bain News Editor. ............................ .' .Tim Cain Associate Editor ......................... Matt Swartz Managing Editors ....................... :Rita Morandi Jim Rostenberg Features Editor ........................... At Reisch ~ports Editor ............................... Bruce Bat~heider Photo Editors ..................... , ........ Les l<ernan Jeff W eilburg Business Manager ........................ Mike Hurley National Advertising ................... Mark Shulman- Sl,lbscriptions ............................... Mike Bernstein Executive Editors ...................... :.Peter Dickerman Louis S. Snitkoft' CONCORDY STAFF Jim Smith Brian Lewis Steve Kelly Andy Richman Ellen Radack Malcolm Snowden Nelson Weil Judy Dein Pat Bohen Mitch Lubart Steven Krakauer Marty Sherman Woody Gutherz Phyllis R. Edelman Gail Goodman Rober.t Shugoll Mark Mindel Larry Wharton Tom Conley Don Hainerman Fred Lucas Bill West Ron Aines Phil Alcabes Dave Strom Woody Lauer John Polydouris Rumors Dispelled We have learned the following about the \incident\ at Hickok House last week, and hope that by expressing these facts here all rumors will be thoroughly dispelled. . Any. friction that existed at Hickok House was basically of Upperclass vs. Transfer nature. For example, an upperclassman was playing his stereo one night during that first week of school (when a goodly number of upperclassman do not attend classes), and a transfe,r came over to ask him to turn it down. As most upperclassmen would (whether they will admit it or not), he refused to turn it down. It so happens that the upperclassman was black and the transfer white. The overtones that~.are explicit in the rumors circulating are not germane to the' specific problem involved, but are the mandates of a scared and sick society. The roughing incident at Hickok House took place at a mailbox on Lenox Ro~d and our sources inform us that the \roughing\ consisted of a stray arm and a loose tongue. Once again, the \roughers\ were black and the \roughee\ white. The rumor mill again attaches racial overtones with references to attacks. This is simply not the case. One final point: This incident is but one example of the vicious nature of the rumors that abound on this campus. It is a standing joke, yet a sad commentary, that in all of the college there is not one individual who, whether knowingly or unknowingly, fails to either start or spliead rumors. There is certainly no justification for this, and yet there seems no end in sight. Will the rumors never cease? amr Letters To the Editor: In this day and age in which we speak of voter awareness, it is very frustrating as a freshman to have an election thrust upon our class concerning a school office whose purpose is obscure, and whose candidates are unknown to the majority of our class. The timing of this election serves only to promote apathy among the students. I feel that an injustice has been done to the Class of 1976 for not g1vmg it the opportunity to develop a sense of school citizenship. Let us not make the same mistake with next year's freshman class. Sincerely Bill Talis '76 * * * * The Social Cortun ittee announces that Dave Mason tickets will go on sale for Union students only next Monday, October 9. On Satutday, October 14, off-campus ticket outlets will open in Albany and Troy. Buy yours next week and avoid being shut out-a sell•out is expected. * * * * Concordiensis is published every Tuesday and Friday during the Schoot year except during examination and vacation periods by the student body of Union. College, Schenectady, N.Y. National advertising representative, National Educational Advertising Service, Inc, College P·ublishers Representative, National Educational Advertising Service, Inc., N.Y.C. Editorial Office. Old Gym. Onion College. Publication Office, The Jewish World Publicatiops. 771 State Street, Schenectady, N.Y. 12307, 346-2356. Entered in the Schenectady post office as Second Class Mail Matter .Subscription 20 cents a copy.$8 a year delivered anywhere in the United States. - Deadline for all copy, which must be typed and double-spaced, is. 7 p.m. on Monday and Thursday at the Concordy office, above Old Chapel. Office telephone number is 370-6155, but the office is only in use on Monda-y and Thursday nights. For all editorial matters. cull the editor-in-chief at 393- 1640; for information call Student Activities Office at 370-6118. by ANTONIO JOHN FAGA Studem Body Presidem I would like to take this opportunity to try to explain the reasons behind the confusion of this week's elections for the Steering Committee. The responsibility of the elections should be, to some extent, the President's. I accept the task, and the primary reason for the confusion lies in my ignorance of the new constitution adopted by the Student Senate last year. This may not be a very good reason, but it is a· valid one. As with any new constitution, the implied reasoning is just as important as the factual construction of the body, and this implied reasoning was the -basis for thl;! confusion. Also, the lack of continuity between Presidents served to exaggerate the situation. In all due respect to my predecessor, he made himself available for questions, but I did not see the problems until it was too late. You should now ask why the elections were not postpones until the confusion was cleared, and why freshmen were not better jnformed of the meaning of student government. The answer to the first question is that members are now heeded on different faculty committees, and a postponement of another two weeks could cripple many committees now ·facing exact deadlines. Last year's Committee on Committees failed to complete their job; therefore a l'ack of students on partidular committees now e;xi;;t~. 'In response to the second question, the · phv and different Orientation proceedings mad;e it extremely difficult to . gather all the freshmen in any way, resulting in a minimum of exposure to many aspects of campus life. · My specific explanation for the confusion lies in the fact that I was using a constjtution that was only partially reconstructed, and the failure to produce a complete copy led to my misunderstanding of some vital points. l believed the Steering Committee was to be composed of two people from each class, with the Committee on Committees and Discipline Committee resulting from this election. This is a mistaken conc~pt; a candidate must first run for one of these committees and then assume a seat on the Steering Committee. I feel that the new constitution will make the students vital to Union College, and it will focus the government where the students see fit. I ask for your patience and indulgence in interpretation and application of student government, and I hope that together we will make this year at Union a learning experience that we will all remember. Feel free to contact me at Student Activities Office or Beta Theta Pi. Fraternity, l am your President and I would like to help you in your endeavors. Jane Fonda, Tom Hayden, and former POW George Smith will speak in Memorial Chapel next Monday, October 9, at 4 p.m., as par~ of a visit to the Capita! District. * * * * The LF.C. announces that tickets for the Golden Night of Rock'N'Roll starring Chubby Checker and the Drifters will go on sale next Wednesday in the Students Activities Office. The concert will be on Homecoming Saturday, November 4th. Since the concert is on Homecoming and there is a limited capacity, it would be advisible to buy your tickets as soon as possible. * * * * The Chinese Language Club) in conjunction with The Comparative Corrimimist Studies Program of Union College. Schenectady, presents A Look At China Today. Miss Christine Frank, a recent visitor to the People's Republic of China 1 will give a talk and slide show on Tuesday, October 17, 1972 at 7:30p.m. in Old Chapel. * * * * BLITHER On Monday, October 9, at 4:00 p.m., the AS.C.E. will hold its organizational meeting in Butterfield Hall 300. Business will include· the ·election of secretary; C.E. department represe.nta tive, and class representative, slides from last years' field trips ·to the Gilboa Pumped Storage Plant, Albany South Mall Project, and Moles Field Trip to New York City. Refreshments will be served. All students are invited to attend. * * * * Prominent China and East Asian specialist Ross Terrill will speak Monday, Oct. 9 at 8 p.m. in the auditorium of the socia·l sciences building. A . n~tiye. of Australia, Terrill stt1died ·at ·the University of Melbourne then came to Harvard University where he is now a member of the department of government and a research fellow in Chinese Affairs. at its East Asian Center. He is also a contributing editor of the Atlantic magazine. * * * * Jane Fonda ! by MATHEW SWARTZ One would be hard put to deny that times are sad when situations where people's lives lie in the balance are called interesting or, worse yet, not worthy of interest. The war seems to be an endless source of accusation, denial, and counter- accusation; Jane Fonda, who incidentally will be here Monday, October 9, and Ramsay Clark have been called traitors to their country (epithets fabricated with apparently no Ie.gal thread to them} on the grounds that by fact-finding in Indochina they have \aided and abetted\ the enemy. It appears to be a question of. trooe mo{~le. Lis.ten, men are bemg held pttsoner in a military impasse that will ring historically as staiemat~. Our was that the .. Red guerrillas\ released an American prisoner as \a gesture of sympathy\ while the top American General, Paul D. Harkins, called on the 16,500 U.S. servicemen to \step up the war as a memorial\ to the assisinated President. The date of the article is November 24, 1963. I get a feeling that this tragedy has spanned a generatioH. Everyone wants peace, I think. Nobody wants .any more people, especially innocents, to die, I think. The problem is to appease the countless \third parties.\ The Indochinese Peace Delegation- has a refreshingly forward mid simple solution to be presented in Memorial Chapel Monday afternoon. Everyone should go, I think. Volunteers for the food co-op on Hamilton Hill are needed. If interested please contace Lorna Stevens, room 302 West, or call 346-9344. * * * * There will be a meeting of all Economics majors and faculty and others interested in the department on Thursday, October 12, at 4:30 p.tn. in SS 016. Come meet the new students and faculty. Rt;freshments .will be served. * * * * The Social Committee will present Glass Harp in concert ·Saturday· riight in ·Memorial Chapel at 8:30. Tickets are only $1.00. * * * * · Volunteers are needed to help with a breakfast program at N ott Terrace School. 50 children are served each day. Sign up for one d1itY a week, 7:45-9:00 a.m. If interested in helping please call 374-8502. * * * * Political Science Juniors: Professor Sharlet department chairman, requests your attendance at a brief but imp ott ant meeting o::n Wednesday, October lith in Social Science 012 at 7:.30 p.m;\ Important information for Junior Political Science majors will be announced. · * * * * Gary G. Williams, Assistant Dean for Admissions and' Student Affairs, from the Graduate School of Business, Stanford University, Stanford, California, will visit the Union College Campus on Friday, October 13. PROCTOR'S W11J~ STATE ST., SCHENECTADY Oct. 4-10 Thunderball You Only Live Twice - •• -. f .. . -- ' involvement, bombing to puppet ,...,... .. ..,..,.,..~..,..,.. ..... ..,. __ master, hinges on this issue alone. · .... ':\\ ..... ,., ....... _. _.....,..\\' ,. .... -~ : ~ I A. collector friend of mine • M . • . 8 ~ · Oct. 11-1).7 Further Perils of Laurel & Hardy presented me with an old issue of • . aurlce . • ~ the New York Sunday News • .L __ ~ dating back to my seventh year~~· Grauoort & Sons~ , of grammar school education. . • · ~ The Vietnamese, who, the News t ~ · reported, had just three weeks • · For three 4 · earlier \accepted the $laying of , Ge. nerations 4 • President Ngo Dinh Diem • . impassively or even joyously,\ • ~ were then shocked by, the death •166 Jay St. For Honest ::servic~ · of American President John F. 1;. ... -. ~ ... _ ..... ~~ ~o~~ .!e!'elry~ . Kennedy. The point of the article Oct. 18-24 Fillmore Panic In Needle Park Oct. 25 ... 31 Play it Again, Sam Last of the Red Hot Lovers - At ~ tne fi1 Politic Huma1 purpo! princii n<tture the int the gr among discuss the or HeHbe Fishml co peer , group cornmt Orig curren1 figures camp\.! a less \being two yt before was tet politicE Union virtual got tOJ and be. resurn defunc quickl) involve had e: share t might 1 \ ) k r k Nor Adc

' l ~ 1 !• \ CONCORD/ENS/S, f<rtda:~·, 0l'tober 6, 1972 3 ~A New Voice by FRED LUCAS At 7 p.m. on Wednesday last tne first meeting of the \new'' Political Fo.rum was held in Humanities 114. The main purpose . of this .. me~ting w~s principally orgamza.t1on.al . m n:l.ture: electing officers, defining the intentions and possibilities of the group, recruiting ast>istance among those pres.ent, etc. Also discussed ws;re some of the ideas the organizing nucleus of Dave Hellberg, Chuck Sabatt, an(.l Rita Fishman had cotne up with concerning ways in which · the , group cou1~ serve; the college community. Originally aimed at bringing currently interesting political figures of some renown to campus, the group had met with a less than smashing success, \being totally inactive for the last two years and onJy semi ... active before that.\ Responding to what was termed \not just a gap in the political consciousness of the Union CoHege community,, but a virtual vacuum,\ several students got togeth9r on their own time and began the difficult process of resurrecting the previously defunct organization. They quickly discovered that thfs involved more WorK than they had expected, and decided to share their ideas with others who might ee interested in helping out. WHEN YOU KN. O ~~V/ .. ·'W ITS FOR KEEPS. Love, captured forever in the beautiful brillfance of . a perfect diamond Keepsake ... the perfect symbo of your special love. The group leadership is fairly . well establishecl, so anybody who wants to be a chi\:f might as well stay home smoking his peace (?) pipe, but for anyone who doesn't mind being an Indian, this could be a chance to meet some very interesting people. Specifically what is needed are people in:tetested in working in the general areas of campus and off- campus publicity. contacting speaker organizations and negotiating fees, arranging dates' and places. Apparently there is already in existence a web of political organizations which ·provide speakers to colleges as well as other interested groups, so locating possible speakers should not be difficult. Dave seemed pretty optimistic that the group would get off the ground. He pointed out that this provides students with a way to become at least informed, if not actively involved, in the important political questions of eur time .. · The work isn't very hard, and could- prove very interesting. It will be good experience just working with the various political organizations with which the group will be doing business. \And of co.urse,\ he .added, \those people active in the Forum will be invited to any dinners or parties given for the guest speaker.;' One politi<;:al figure already coming to campus, though no one is suve how, when, or where· (she's a free-bee) is Mary Ann Krupsak, a liberal Democrutio contender for the State Senate seat now held by Senator Edward Lynch, a Republican. Apparently Ms. Krupsak is really after. this guy on the issue of opening the State Senate up to the public. The group has hopes of 'arranging a debate between Krupsak and Lynch. It do.es seem that this group could offer some interesting activity for any U nionites who find themselves wiling away empty hours in tube-land. Instead of watching political personalities on the screen making news somewhere else, they can have a hand in bringing those same people to Union and meeting with them personally. Dave stressed that the group is going to be run very inform.ally - the organizational bit was principally to get official status on campus and funding from the student government. If any other students arc interested, or if they have ideas which might prove helpful to the group, they c.an add their name and phone number to the member roster in the Political Science office m the Social Science building. • •• • • We are all kids at heart, so if you want to find out how Bo boy Hull felt when he got his first NHL goal, play street hockev. There will be an organization;! meeting on Wednesday, O~toher II at 8:30 p.m. in Fox lounge. If you are interested in playing street hockey hut cannot attend the meeting, contact Bruce Batchelder (353 Fox} or Bruce Sostek (250 Fox). It is a move you won't regret. Levfs· Dttve's· Mens Shop 453 State St. (downtown Schenectady) ., . RESEARCH MATERIAlS All Topics Send for your descriptive, up-to-date, 128-page, mail order catalog of 2,300 quality research papers. Enclose' $1 ;00 to cover postage and handling. RESEARCH UNLIMITED 519 GLENROCK AVE., SUITE 203 LOS ANGEUS, CALIF. 90024 (213) 477-8474 • 477-5493 \We need a local salesman\ ·MCAT -OAT -GRE LSAT·ATGSB OCAT NAT'L. BDS. • Preparation tor teSts required for admission to graduate and profes- sional schools *Six and twelve session courses *Small groups *Voluminous material for hOme study · prepared by expe'rts in each field *Lesson schedule can be tailored to meet ind~vidual needs. Lessons can be spread over a period of several· months to a year, or for- Rmgs from S 100 to S 10,000 Trade Mark Reg. A. H. Pond Co. ••••••••••••••••••••• . out of town students, a period of one week •Opportunity-for review of past lessons via tape at the center TO PLAN YOUR ENGAGEMENT AND WEDDI Send new 20 pg. booklet, \Planning Your Eng<~gement and Wedding\ pl.u~ full color folder and 44 pg. Bride's Book gift offer all for only 25¢. F-72 Name ______________________________ ~--~ Address _ _._ ______ ___,_ __ ___. __ -------------- City~· -------~-------~Co . .,...---~-~---- Stote . Zip ___ _ KEEPSAKE DIAMOND RINGS, BOX 90, SYRACUSE, Sp~ial Compact CourseS during Weekends - I ntersessions Summer Sessions STANLEY H. KAPLAN EDUCATIONAL CENTER LTD. • 1675 Ea11 16ih Slrftl. Btooklvn. N. Y J'- .(; (2121 336-5300 ~:r (5161 538-4555 ~~ DAYS, EVENINGS, WEEKENDS ~ Bran.ches in.Mojor Ci:ties in U.S.A. The Tatotit~K &loool with th• Na11onWrde Reput4tion \S d St \ econ. ory: Wizard Of Oz There's a new theater group forming on catnpu:;. Calling itself \Second-story Theater,\ the group is an offshoot of the Mountebanks dedicated to bringing theater into the Schenectady school systems. The troupe .came into being last spring. under the direction of Barry Smith. Fourteen students put together a production of Norton Juster's The Pllantorn Tollbooth. using acrobatics and hand-made masks, and toured several of the local elementary schools, with universally good receptions. Now directed by senior Paul Delfin, \Second-story\ wants t~l expand its involvement with both Union and the local community. Arrangements ar~ being made with area middle-schools for members of the troupe to come in for an afternoon and hold workshops in such things as movement, mask-making, and make-up. In addition, they want to bring in more Union people to participate in a bigger production to take around and play in the schools. Delfin and company are extending an im·itation to the folks on campus to join in the troupe for this term's production. The Wizard of Oz. The nature of Kleinkauf Contmued fram Pa1e I a forcihle entry. Mr. Kleinkauf 'uggests that when 'tutknts le<t\e their rooms unattended they 'hould lock all windows and doors. This year the Securit) Office has initiated invent or) sheets on which students can ·record all personal property that can he identified hy model and serial numhers. These sht·eb will be kept on file at the Security Office. In the event of a theft this record can aid security in finding the article. Any student who wishes to fill out an inventory sheet can pick one up at the Security Office. In the meantime. we're all waiting for Union to see the light. the ensemble re<.J u1res a strong commitment among ib member~. a sensitivity to the need:, and abilities of each person, as well a~ to the production itself. fhe key words can he summed up a:, awarenes!>. trust. boldne~:,. wonderment, and love. Anyone who speah this language, regardless of previous experience, is invited to join the first rehearsal this Tuesday night at 7:30 p.m. in the Green Room of Nott Memorial. All are advised to wear tights ol7 loose-fitting jeans, because Delfin says he intends to get you moving. By the way: The Wizard wiil definitely not be the sugar-and- spice movie version. Wylen Continued from Page 1 more passive role was played by the Dean's office. Many upperclassmen and freshmen will he happy to learn that despite all his duties as · Dean. Professor Wylcn w.ill not he leaving the classroom. He is teaching a Comp. Ed. this fall and winter~ in the spring he will offer a Physics course. It is Dean Wylen's belief that Union must keep up with ib students' demands and implement them. \The college must not he stut ic; it must be changing and imprming. Union.\ he states. \i~ an outstanding liheral arb tollege with outstanding pre-proles~ional training. prohahl! numher one or two in the wuntr:. \\ith regard to college~ v. ith li hera) arb and pre- prokssional t ratmng. Some studenb at Union rank with the hcst students of any college in the United States, and in general I lind Union's students an intellectuully stimulating group. I wouldn't be here. especially as Dean. it I didn't think highly of the ;,tudent~ and the college ibdf. My goal i~ to try and satisfy everybody. and I might become the biggest hastard on campus, . hut I'll try not to he.\ MARRIED COUPLES Part-Time Job Care for other people's children or homes while on vacation. Free room and board, work as you want. Must have car, 1 child allowance. $100./week. Contact 355-8395 anytime, 2 Regina Dr., Schenectady. 'New Opening' Rosa Restaurant & Pizza 1659 VanVranken Ave. Serving: Italian Dinners & Hot & Cold Submarine Sandwiches Could be eaterz here, and ·also taking orders to go. ~ Come and try it, I'm sure you'll/ike it! Open Sundays from 12-to p.m., and everyday from ll A.M.-ti P.M., excluding Monday. Clos.ed

4 frida:~·. October 6. 1972 Brickley Stars As Garnet Defeats Rochester by PAT BOHEN I !\lion hided 1Jif its 1972 'occt:r ..,,a~on 11 it h an cdge-of-the- 't:at 1irtor~ o\er a surprising R.ochL'\ln team. I he -score was 3- ~ in t\\o o\t:rtink;,. It was a 1 ictor~ in ~rite ... in spite of the lart that :\eil Bri<:kley had what appeared to ht: a cold; Olaf \;ielsen 11a' '-·ideli·ned with wh;tt rum,,r ha:-- to he a hack injury. and Crai~ .k11ries e.'\hibited hetk.r hall control than mouth cnnt rof lhree cln\L' attemr·t'> on Roehe\ln·, ).!oal in the ope:ning lllllllllL'' ma<k it lnok like it 11a~ roing to he an easy victory. hut ninety minute;, plus ten ;,eemed e\en longer that it really was in a tight game that we nearly lmt early in the ;,ec<md haiL photd by Nelson Weil Garnet lw{fhack Doux ,\1oran IIIO\'£'s the hall up/leld as Cnion surxp£1 hack from an 0-l (h:ficil to, hf:'at Roclu:.Her, J-2. in the .1eason opener. fhe entire first period showed Union in controL The team, co- captained hy Hoh Bernhardt and Paul Martini. kept the play centered around Rochester's ~;oal. Shob on the goal were man). hut none of them connected for the point. I don't know what Rochester coach Ciary Brown did to his team during half-time. but it looked like a whole new soccer team as U. R. stunned the lJ nion guard in the opening minutes of the second half. Our goal defense wa~ rattled. and failure in full- hack rotations allowed two ~core~ for the opposition. ·11 didn't take too long tor Union to regain its lost compo~ure ·• and dose to the JV Soccer Hosts William's by FRANCESCO ET AL Attempting to uplift last year's record of two wins and six losses. .IV soccer coach Bill Scanlon will lead tile young team against well- rated Williams College this Saturday. Returning from last year's · roster arc John. Walker. Steve Conley. r,my (}'Connors and Bruce Me Ltughlin. They will fill most 01 t lw forward line. with Walker leading the \\ay. Freshmen John Denio. Tom Richard~on. Dave Sanderson <tnd \Rig AI\ Ritchie will he !iOille of the hopefuls staning this Saturday. Coach Scanlon feels he has some fine goalies in .loh.n Husternd and Phil DeLuca. Asked about the prospects for this season, Scanlon replied with middle of the second half, Union started its comeback with a goal scored hy center Ohanes Serbe!lian. Play was stopped late in the period when Doug Moran wa~ stunr:~ed hy a mis-hit headball. He recovered, and so did the team a~ Bob Bernhardt scored on a penalty kick to tie the ~con.: 2-2 wi.th 4:32 left on the clock. Union again dominat·ed play going into the first of two five minute overtime periods. The final gtoml. and the one that broke the tie. was made hy Mark Brickley aoout a minute imo the second overtime. Rochester never recovered. Honors go to the whole team, and personal laurels to Craig Jeffries for some nice corner kicks (even if he did get thrown out) and to Bob Grossman for beautiful defensive moves and for being absolutely everywhere. I've also been asked to give a \best dressed\ award to Coach McMurray for proving that a coach doesn't have to wear white crew socks and' sweats all the time. Remember. Saturday at I I a.m. is the Wi·lliams game. They're last year's fC AC runners- up and it should be a fantastic contest! Sports Hvddle by BUFFALO . . A sports cn11e is currently sweeping the nation that surpasses in magnitude that of the yo-yo, hula-hoop and Frisbee. It is called street hockey. Its players are aspiring Bobby Orrs, Glenn Halls and Rocket Richards. A team sometimes has a 45 year old dcfenseman or an II year old girl at center. It is played on streets. open lots, in high school gyms. anywhere where room can he found to stickhandle. an emgmatic smile, \It will he a verv interesting season.\ Rumor has· it that he may have on hand the finest JV soccer team he has coached since he has been at Union. Saturday's home game vs. Williams starts at II a.m. at Garis Field. The equipment runs from foam rubber pads and tennis balls to Phil Esposito endorsed sticks and helmets and little plastic stTeet hocMey balls that sting like .hell when hit with ~hem. The game was designed for those hockey fanatics who can't afford skates or can't wait for the ice to set in. It was not designed for anxious mothers. dungarees or sneakers. Injuries are frequent. A shot in the nose, a stick across the shins, scraped knees - .aU happen with alarming frequency but · who cares \vhen everyone is having fun? The typical reaction to pain is. ··Ted Lindsay never cried, why should IT' . ..,.,...,.,...,.,. __ Cut Along Dotted Line afid Save For Hungry Time------ 1 • Street hockey is a game full of dreams. Every kid dreams · of being a Bill Mosienko or Terry Sawchuk or Jean Beliveau. These dreams rarely come true, but try and tell that to a kid who has just scored his first goal. : ~· ~; . Save This MENU : I ~ : I z. For Future Reference ·1 1 KWIK-KOOK I I I / TAKE-OUT SHOPi I 1790 ALTAMONT AVENUE I I (NEXT TO DUNKIN DONUTS.) I ~ . ROTTERDAM, N.Y. I 1 We'll D,liver our FAMOUS \KWIK-KOOK'· ~ I I ! SUBMARINES ! : TO YOUR CAMPUS. JUST CALL : I 3.56 •16.·0.0 ~~~E~~ .. :··.·.·.·.·.·.·.·.·.·.·:.·.·:.·.·.·:.·.·:.· :~ I I SALAMI ...................... 99 I I MIXED····· .... ····· .... : ....... 1.10 I I I . DOUBLE MIXED ........... 1.79 I . Mi11imum Order 3 Subs . J I Delivery Fee Only 30¢ Per Order Plus Sales Tox I '-----~------~------~---------· DIAMOND ENGAGEMENT & WEDDING RINGS 3,000 ring selections in all · . styles at 50% discount to students, staff, and facuity. Buy dirett from leading manufacturer and SAVE! 1 /z carat SJ79, ·~ ·carat only $299. For free color folder write: Box 42, Fanwood, N.J. 07023 ~~~!.Q>~I.Qlc.Q> ~ HECK'S ~ Travel Bureau ~ MOHAWK MALI. § 370-0824 § 151 Ba:rett St. ~ 346-3431 § ~ . No Senice Charge {\ b-.<Q><.Q>~.t</'><.(;h~<.Q\>0 ... ~~ Garnet to Host. Undefeated Alfred by MARK W .. MJNDE\L Fired by the memory of last year's humi:liating 35-0 thrashing · by Lambert Bowl winner Alfred University and Coach Gerry Everling's week-beginning victory prediction, the Union College football squad is out to pull 0ff one of the bigger upsets of the year in small college football. The Dutchmen play host to the visiting Saxons at I :30 0n Alexander field this Saturday. llnion. 1-1 on the vear after a disappointing loss to ·a lowly St. Lawrence eleven last Saturday, needs a good showing. if not a victory, to regain its confidence. Union must now set its goal on a winning season with four tough games remaining after Alfred, against impressive ('A to Z'). Hobart, Middlebury, Williams, and Rochester, along with weaker rival R.P.J and Hamilton, who heat Union last year. naltback opposite We~tbrook, after his clutch performance OF! key plays versus the tarries: sophomore Bill Spelman will start both ways at end.· and so,phomore Don Rur;,is will do likewise, anchoring the line. The other ~:hange is at quarterback, \\here ~enror Dave Rea·ric should get his first starting assignmenr since over a year ago, when he was sidelined for the season aftn a promising beginning. Rcari...: had shared the starting dutie~ a~ a MJphornore. The key, nut only for Saturday, hut f<H the rest of the year, wi.H be the quarterback. Throughout pre-season and in rhe first two games. Everling has been unable to establish a starter who can take control of and lead the offense. This has been the main reason for the failure of the offense. If Rearic can prove himself Saturday the <!Hack may. reverse its previous anemia. Assuming victory over the latter two, perhaps a big assumption, Union needs two wins from the other five to finish above .500. Everling, not unlike a penn~nt contending manager, is juggling his line-up in search of the winning combination. He has . contemplated four changes in his previously disappointing offense; three of which involve defensive stars going both ways. Meanwhile. Union's stingy defense which has allowed only 118 yards on the ground and 1.82 through the air in its two initial games, will get a true test Saturday. If enacted, junior linebacker Jack Siedlecki will start at Alfred quarterback Jim Moretti ha$ graduated but his replacement has not been having any trou·btt? ·· liitbng super-end Charlie Young. Young could have a big day if the pass defense can not improve on last Saturday's showing. .. Cable Turtleneck What a handsome way to face the world~in our miniature cabled turtle neck that's all brawn and wooly warmth. Knit of 100% fine virgin wool, it looks as though some loving hands cabl.ed a message just for you. A harvest of colors. $22.50 Dave;s Squire Shop Tues, fhurs 'til 9 DOWNTOWN SCHENECTADY Vol. byW On a b if drawn · we, a con and two c Upper I\ Walking curious d \Western exhibit. individm toward th to brows publicati Slavery, Washingt Conspirac The Blue Society, t considetir people in quietly a1 usifwel Society. our breatl I asked their alte1 the prese1 One Bit essence o governme immedi~ curiosity. also was governme of no exis Anothe Society change c stage sim that exis 1776. Tl1 wants the for the 1= rup agai want a I< the purp< property, The pe, of the exl interested We respt rapped a the exhib: The nc led us The Che 'N' HOI on

j founded at Union College in 1877 Vol. 102, No. 6 Tuesday; October 10, 1972 Examining the Core: Beneath the Birch Bark by WOODY GUTHERZ Islands exhibit. That night there was. a new member of the Society at the exhibit. ·when we started rapping again, this new member answered tn()si .of our questions. We then knew that he was the m()st know~edgeable member at Society to realize that we have tw interest · i-n supporting its acti~ities, and in fact, we would gladly demonstrate against it. the exhibit. ~ - He kept insisting upon selling f~b his John Birch propaganda and · due to our fn.onetary-c 0 ndition at ORIENTATION the time, we. bought a book. We COUNSELORS If you ·have not already done se>, please pick up and return orientation evaluation forms in th~ Dean of Students Office this week. continued our discussion until the exhibit closed once again. He invited us to a closed meeting .of the Society where they would he showing their indoctrinating filmstrips. We arrived on the night of the Ai!- 20 cents Nearly 1500 people jammed Memorial Chapel Monday ajiernoon to view the Indochina Peace Campaign's visit -to Schenectady. Most came to see Chicago Eight defendant Tom Hayden and actress Jane Fonda (above) \jam\ about the atrocities in Indochina. Holly Near preceeded the stars. who were delayed h): tra.flk. On a bleak Thurs()~y night,. as if drawn by some mysticalforce; we, a contingent of three hurha·ns and two canines, drifted into the Upper N.Y. State Metrofair. Walking through the fair in a curious daze, we strolled by the \Western Islands Publications\ exhibit. Bein.g . studious individuals, we meahde.red toward the exhibit and proceeded to browse through their recent publications of Up Ftom Slavery, b'Y Booker T. Washington;. None Dare Call 1~ Conspiracy; by Gary Allen, and The Blue .Book of the John Bircb Society, by Robert Welch. While considering this · last bock, the people in charge of the exhibit quietly approached us a:nd asked us if we knew of the John Birch Society. We, snickering under our breaths, answered \surely;:.. meeting with open minds. As the filmstrip was sh,own Mr. Mt:Mannus, the spokesman for the movie began explaining the \isms\ of today, for the slanted viewpoint · of the John Birch Society. Later in the rnovie, he began telling of the wrongdoings of communism, facisrn, nazism, Americanism, and socialism. .Dawson's Solid Performance I asked them to tell me what their alternative was to changing the present governmental system. One Bircher retorted, •'The essence of freedom is a limited government.\ This statement immediately. arous.ed tny curiosity. I then told 'him that I also was interested in a limited government. Limited to the point of no existence. Another member of the Society stated that we must change our government to a' stage similar to the government that existed in this country in I 776.. The John Birch Society wants the government to be run for the people; instead of being ru!l against the people. They want a localized police force for the purpose of protecting private property only. The people who were in charge of the exhibit asked us if we were interested in their organization. We responded affirmatively ami rapped about the Society until the exhibit clos&d. The next night our curiosity led us again to the Western The filmstrip deified Joseph McCarthy for his maniacal attacks on so-called Communists. A key quote from the film was, \God give us mote tnen like him.\ At this point, the filmstrip was going completely downhill. It went en t0 tell of the- communist cons.piracy in America. It had actual photographs of America's most honored freedom fighter, the late Dr. Martin Luther King, sitting in on a comrnupist meeting. The filmstrip claimed that the anti- poverty tnovem~nt is undermined by the communist party. The spokesman told us that the reason for the Vietnamese conflict is due to the United States financial foreign aid to Russia. It ended with the spokesman telling all good Americans to go with God and beware of your neighbor. We decided that we have learned enough of the John Birch The Inter-fraternity Council will present Chubby Checker and The Drifters in a Golden Night of Rock 'N' Roil on Saturday night, November 4; as part of Homecoming Weekend. Tickets for the concert will go on sale on Wednesday in the Student Activities Office. by ROBERT SHUGOLL Union was treated to three solid performances this past weekend, highlighted by Jim Dawson's Friday night show and a free Gun Hill Road and Glass Harp \party\ on Saturday. Originally Gun Hill Road was .scheduled to play before Dawson on Friday, but the group's manager was mistaken about the date and they showed up the next day instead. Dawson showed the audience that he's deserving of the praise Dawson freaks have been beUowing on campus with .a one hour and fifty minute set which included 27 songs, spanning his own two albums and fine versions of songs written by other noted writers. Nobody seemed too concerned about Gun Hill Road's ab~ence as the crowd got caught up in the overflow of frien,dliness and beauty that Dawson emanates through his music and stage presence. His acoustic guitar work was smooth and enjoyable, but more impressive were Dawson's vocals, the type tbat you like to shut your eyes to while listening, and just smile and say Ah! But don't let this acclaim of Dawson deceive you into thinking he played to perfection. rve seen Dawson several times before, and he's done better concerts. The personal communication or feeling of unity between Jim and · his audience, so characteristic of hi'S concerts, seemed to be lacking, at least for the first part of the show. It could be that the Chapel, although not a particularly large hall, excluded some of the intimacy found in his usual coffee house gigs. Also noticeable was ·that Dawson went through his first ten numbers with ~ seeming lack · of conviction while playing some of _his best tunes, like \Saturday . Airplane,\ ''Once Was A Time I Thought/ Now Artd Then\ and \Stephanie.\ But at this point he announced that his planned set was over and he would start having some fun. So he went right into a singalong, \With A Little Help From My Fr.:iends,'; which the audience really enjoyed; · and proceeded to run through some really good music, including two encore sets. Dawson sent a happy audience out of the Chapel and that's really where his music is at. Anybody who can put all those Union people in such a good mood has got to have something on his side. Backing up Dawson was Warren Nichols, who quietly melted into the background, but whose value as a bass guitar and piano player can't be overestimated. Nichols also helped out a lot on Dawson's two albums; \Songman\ and \You'll Never Be Lonely With Me.\ During a brief rap with Dawson I asked him which disc he thought was better, and he said he felt closer to parts of the first, but that a combination of the two might have made for a dynamite LP and one with which . he would have been happier. He also mentioned some dissatisfaction with his present producer, Marty Pekar, and plans to record a couple of singles next week with a new man .. In the interest of a good time and good music for a lot of people, the Social Committee decided an hour and a half before Saturday's scheduled Glass Harp concert to make it a free event. This was also facilitated by Gun Hill Road's unexpected arrival at Union Saturday night. Gun Hill Road opened, following the Social Committee's announcement that this was to be a free \party while they simultaneously tossed hundreds of beer cans to an understandably enthusiastic audience. The three-man group. which uses acoustic and bass guitars along with a piano, played a tight 45-minute set, characterized by happy folk-rock tunes with well done harmonies. They didn't do one bad number and their best received song. entitled \Baked Bean Band\ was a rollicking saga about poor old Charley ·Goldstein, complete with kazoo and cheek slapping riffs. Glass Harp, a hard-rock trio from Ohio, plays material that appeals primarily to heavy music freaks. If that's your kind of music or if you can get into a prime lead guitarist then for you Glas:, Ha.rp is a lot more than just loud mush. Classically trained guitarist Tim Berks held the group together and brought a fine classical touch to his lead guitar work which blended v~ry well with the rocking bass lines and drumming of the group's two other memhers. What the crowd dug ffi(•St was Berk's two solo numbers on acoustic guitar, playing traditional classical music. Continued on Pace 3 Jim · photo by Jeff Weilburg Dawson played for two haul's Friday night after the opening act failed to show up.

2 CONCORDIENSIS, Tuesday, OctoberlO. 1972 CONCORDIENSIS rouftded at Union Collqe in 1177 Editor-in-Chief ............................ George Rain News Editor ................................ tim Cain Associate Editor ......................... Matt S\\'artz Managing Editors ........................ Rita Morandi Jim Rosten berg -~caturcs Editor ........................... AlReisch Sprirts Ed it or .................. :.~.: .... · ........ Bruce Batchelder I')·.. • . ' . ;- ' ' • • .: f .-'j( f 'h ' . I no to Editors ............................. \ .es .~ na .. · Jetr \-'cltb'utg Business Managcr, ..... ., ........ , ....... Mike Hurley National Advertising ......... , .... ; ..... Mark Shulman S h . ·· · · · · · Ma\ke Bernstein u scnpt1ons ............................... . r:xccut+vc Editors .......... : ............ J.,etcr Bickerman l.ouis s. Snitkoff :Ray Faught . Bill E~icltson Jim ;smith Brilin' Lewis Steve 'Kelly Andy· Richman Ellen Radack Malcolm Snowden Nelson Wei! . Larry Wharton · 1 Biljy DeBear ' CONCORDY· STAFF\ Jutty, Dein. · · , . flat Bohen . . Mitch Luflart . Sfc;:ven KntlCauer Marty Sherman Woo(iy Gutlierz Tilm.Conlev Don Hametmiln fred Lucus ·Bob-Sax ~ ' \ . I ' Francesco Js~o Phyllis. R. Edelman . Gail Goodman Robert.S~ugoll Mark Mindel sm·west Roll.Aines . Phil Alcabes .Dave Strom Woody Lauer ,John. Polydouris : hq. Canying~ lfrOn Tom Hayden and Jane Fonda spoke Monday afternoon. Memorial Chapel was packed. We heard about the atrocities being perpetrated on the Vietl}amese people. We heard about the·corrup~iop, Qf South Vietna'tb.ese politics. We heard about the roie .played in ali this by the man who is now in the White House. There was a time when college students - like Lis -· all across this country rang <;{oorbe1ls' and .distributed literature in hopes that a candidate migpt be eJected who would bring an end~te the-war-; That-time was the- spring of i.968 .. Then .came Chicago. . . · · . · There was a time when half a million people marched and protested on a bitter-cold day in our capital city. That time was November 196g. Th~n came Kent State. by RON ''ROCK'' AINES \Last spring a cns1s arose over the- prospect of continuing the Hebrew language courses and the Israel term abroad program. The administration wanted ·to know if these courses would be fUled with enough people to' warrant their continuation. An · Ad Hoc committ~e was established to analyze the situation. · I:n addition, Dean:. Charles Olton condu<:tep his own revjew e:f the problem. Both tile·· committee . aQ:d Dean · Olton .reported that the Hebrew language courses and the term abroad pregram in Israel · s~ould be continued. · All · conce.rned were delighted over this outcome. Those interested in gqing on the term .abroad progralh had only one requirement to meet - Hehrew 10. Students desiring to study Hebrew as .a foreign language just for. the sake of learning it, now ha;d the chane¢ to ~o this, the opp9rt-unity to take more than an introd.uctory. course jn Hebrew was . very appealing to them. At the epd of l~st y~n;r, there seemed to be no problem concerning the Hebrew · program: , .. , · . Today, most of the people \nvolved are furious. . Out of MWhere. the Hebrew lO was ~;~.otified :that ·. Hebrew I I and 12 would not be taught -meaning ·that no money was appropriated to pay the instructer. The upperclassmen were reassured last year that at least three courses.. in Hebrew would be offered. The freshmen were informed of this in- the Union Co'llege · catalog of 1972-73. Under· course listings in Hebrew are the following: Hebrew 10, Hebrew II, Hebrew 12. What happened? Why did the college announce cour:ses and suddenly drop them~ Letters·.'.-~ ... - , - ~ ' ~: • r ' Could· i~ be the viewpoint that Hebrew 10' was only being 'taken by those going to Israel the following winter?· That argument 'is false, As oLthis printing,. ~nly ten people have si,gned up to journey · to Israel' ~~xt term. Twenty-six. ot~c:r stud~~~s ~~g, ;: , ,' are. not ~o~~g t? .~~r~~~~- ~h~ a,!~p taK}ng, He!'r.ew, Tlits . · means that twepty-stx students are gotng to be deprived o{ taking courses in which they expected to be enrolled. ·· ' . · Maybe. ~h,e reason is ih~t not enopgh :stude~ts are in Hebrew' 'tO to warvant the scheduling of H~brew . l t arid 12 .. There are J6 students in .Hebtew m, This ·. amount is 'gt~!lier than in 'any other langua~e ~10. course. If )6 is'not a sufficient num.ber, thei1. 1 ~ther foreign ·lang~ages at UJ:lion wiU 'fall by the Wayside as welL Unofficial figures of~he. R;egistrar are:· .,' Hebrew 10-\\' 36 students ' Germ~m ''w ..:....: .23 students Spanish· tQ :__ \23 students Russian l'O - 16 stud~nts ·Chinese i() .:..._: IS.studt:nts French lO ~ 14 students Whyis it that the largest Iangua~ course is being ' left with nowhere t9 go? Hebrew· is being dropped, while other language courses · are not , being threatened with extinction. There are ·only -three _ Hebrew courses offeted at Union, wliile the ''major\· · languages hav~ at· least. double ·that arno~nt ·.of, . courses. T,h'irty~si~ ·,~tu,9~.nts . are l?~ing told that ·Hebrew is riofiinportant eno·ngh to Be studiec;l;· th'at the college cannot · bpther paying ' the Hebrew ' instructor. This 1s np·nsense, ' •· >· .,. An Open Letter to the Senior Class BLITHER usual· ·dose they've getten fro.m me over the past three years. The. i.F.C. announces that As most of you ar:e by now aware, I ·ran for Senior Class representative, to the Steering Committee (what's that?), and lost. Though it may seem rather unusual, l would like to thank several people for their efforts in ... my first campaign since sixth grade. After workin,g, this past year as tickets for the Golden Night of a legislative assist~n~ an< Rock'N'Roll starring Chubby 'learn'ing about committee work, l Checker and the Drifters will' go had hoped to apply this on sale next Wednesday in. the knowledge earnestly to practical Students Activities . Office. The use at U Col. Though I lost;. I conce~t. will be .on Homeco~~ng. still had the opport·unity to learn Saturday, Nc;>vemher 4th .. S1~ce the hard way about \power · the concert ts on Homecommg politics,\ which was · an and there is a .li~ited capacity, it experience in itself. would be adv1s1ble to buy your Frank J. Allocca .. '73 . tickets &s soon as possible. . * * ' * Now is- a time again. But we no longer see those great numbers of people out working and marching, affirming their• belief that Vietnamese have a right to live; their belief that America cannot possibly justify maintaining a war in Vietnam, killing, maiming, and destroying. The government of this nation has been most successful in. windin-g-this war . clown; it has been wound down right out of our consciousness. Since the election was a run- off between a frat man with fine \house\ support and Senate Presidential endorsement, ag~;tinst a former pledge _of a now-defunct. fraternity, largely supported by independents, the latter (I} had to create an organization from scratch to make this campaign viable. ' · My site captains, Art \Lance\ Turock Tom Morante, R.C. Scutt and Mark Shugoll, did a superlative job in their dorms to get out.the vote on my·behalf, as did Bill Kimball and Mike Hurley in their frats. My SAGA co-workers also were a great help. Thanks to my . buddies, formerly of Phi Sigma Delta and now of the Flying Dutchmen, for stopping in to vote while on their way to play pinball in the Skelfar. Kandy Carroll also drew some fine campaign posters; she's. quite an artistic chick. ·T9 the members of the There will be· a ~~eting of all commul)ity: Economics majors· and faculty As a last term senior, may J · :itnd 6tners·· interested in the urge the condnuatioQ and department on Thursday, expansion of the Comprehensive October 12, at 4:30 p.m. in SS Education Program? I believe. 016. Come meet the new students that ~hi;> Pr~gr;u:p was brilliai_ltlY and f-aculty. Refreshments will be 'conceived arul' that,.as·a pattern, served. it has the potential to bring a * * * * Having just listened to Mr. Hayden and Miss Fonda, and to Holly Near, maybe we feel angry and incensed once agai11. Maybe today we say that we will do som<;:thing again. But will we really do it? And what will we say .next week? Most impo.rtantly, what will we say on November 7? Memorial Chapel Was packed when the speakers first walked in on Monday. But many seats were empty by the time they had finished. Well, after all, it was dinner time. staff Hassled Perhaps an editorial is not the proper place to extend an apology to Dr. Herbert Wyien and Mr. John Kleinkauf for ' the transposition of their pictures on page one of last Friday's . issue, but we are. For those of you as yet unaware of our gaffe, that was Dean Wylen under the \Electric City\ headline and Security Director Kleinkauf above the \Assitant Dean of Faculty\ caption. I would also like to thank Scott Feuer. who, after narrowly losing out on the first ballot, did his best to get some of his support over to m:y side. new dimension to the \liberal The Chinese Language Club 1 in arts education.\ conjunction with The The Program is far ahead of its Comparative Communist Studies time in its desig~ .to bring into Program of · Union College, perspectiv.e th-e various Schenectady, presents ALook At disciplines and ·the relationships· China Today. Miss Christine they bear one to another. Insofar Frank, a recent visitor to the as this . is achieved, the Value of People's Republic of China 1 will our time spent at Union is greatly give a talk and slide show on enhanced. For in our world, Tuesday, October 17, 1972 at where knowledge has become so 7:30p.m. in Old Chapel. specialized, intensive and * * * * analytic, the exposure to (or, at least, the struggle toward) the generalized, extensive and synthetic view of reality - the effort made by Union's Comp. Ed. Program · has an invigorating and cathartic effect. If taken seriously, the Pro-gram pioneers a pattern for reversing the spiritual and intellectual myopia prevailing in our culture. PoUtical Science Juniors: Professor Sharlet department chairman, requests your attendance at a brief but important meeting on Wednesday, October II th in Social Science 012 at 7:30 p.m. Important information for Junior Political Science majors will be announced. * * * * In the ideal of a comprehensive -~ education, Union shows itself to i Such a mix-up is only part of the hassle that is putting out a student newspaper- another such hassle is delivery of 2500 Concordies to the wrong drop-off point Friday evening, which delayed campus distribution of the paper until I 1 o'clock that night. Lastly, and most importantly, my roomates, Timmy Cross and Howie Zaleznak, worked almost as hard as I did in this campaign. They literally dragged off- campus seniors into Mrs. Marra's office to vote, often having to simultaneously tell them what the election was all about. They also stayed around both nights, waiting for results to come in, instead of putting the \moves\ on girls like they usually do. Howie and Tim also had to put tip with more crap than the be a highly innovative and relevant school. For this reason, PROCTOR'S ~~:~~ • ! In fact, Friday was a good night for hassles. The Social Committee promised a show with Gun Hill Road and Jim Dawson, but Gun Hill Road incorrectly assumed that their gig was on Saturday. Luckily, however, Dawson agreed to perform for tWo hours. The Social Committee suffers from ill-informed complaints but when the SC announced its open meeting last week (so people could ask questions arid learn how the SC operates as it does), less than ten people attended. C'oncordiensis is puhilshcd e\er~ 1uesda~ and 1-ridn~ during the schoo• year cxcepl during exammation and >acatiort pcri11d> h~ the ~tudcnt bod~ nl: Union Colle)!e. Schenectady. ~ Y. ~ati<Jnal ad1crtlsln)! rcprcscntatiiC. \'atlnnal Educational Ad1crl1sing Sen 1~c. Inc. Cnllt:gc Puhlishcrs ~cpres~nt:LtliC. National Educational Ad\~rtisinp Scf\lcc. lne .. :\.Y.C. Editonal OIIW<'. Old Civm. l!n1on College. l'uhllc,llJOn Of11cc .. I h<' .Je11ish World Publications. 771 St.ate Srrccl. Schmccwd~. ~- \' I 2307 .. 146-2356. EnfL>red lh rhe Schenectad~ post office a> Second Class Mail Malh'r.Suhscnptwn 20 cenl' u cnpy.$R a ~cur dcli1cred amwherl' 1n the [ 'nitcd State' Deadlmc fot all cop~. whtch must h<' 11 pcd and douhfc-~paced. \ 7 r.m nn Monda\ and lhursdu1· at the <·oncordJ <lll•cc. ahtHC' Old ( hapel . Ofhc~ tc.ft.orhone nu;.,her \~70-!1155. but ill<· olhct•\ onl~ 111 usc on Mnnda1 and 1 hursdal nights. For all editori:d matters. call the edltor·m·chlel at .1<13· 1640: tor informatron call Srudcnt Actnitics Ollicc• at :170-61111. . gsb All ==== act 1 iNti ~_,...OJ::&·:.:tUt~:'i I encourage all members of the Union community to appreciate and to fully utilize the Program as it stands, and to continue making thoughtful improvements in it. David ToJiver - Alcoa representative wiU be r --tiiiiiii@J\iil--l• interviewing students seeking part-time work. Hours are flexible with student curriculum. Interviews will be held Thursday Oct. 12th at 4:30 p.m. in the Hale House student lounge. l Try JAKE LIPSTEIN'S _j ~ §tate Stree¢ · --···- ····-··- .. _ F~R ~ ~-~~ , , ...... , - FOR LIQUOR & WINE STATE ST,, SOHEN£GTADV . , Oct. 4-l 0 Thunderball You Only Live Twice Oct. ll-17 Further Perils of Laurel & flardy Oct. 18-24 Fillmore Panic In Needle Park Oct. 25~31 Play it Again, Sam 'Last of tiH Red Hot Lovers ·SU(;Cei!Sl'le l . . suit1;1.bi Misbehave! surprising!~ From thi a director, consequenc However, e it frequent direction t• and. on the For th?s this may sc just the rev poorly ex~~ much of hi films, Both · spastic thy1 Althougl really tnov€ been conce able to avo for very lot Seizing 1 Dr. David \Doaphn;s1 in essence, ridiculous t of the. seve is entirely s Yet, we: manages t< of nearly < This brand of the filrr work. At a can b,e mil< Volunte1 with a bre: Terrace S1 served eac day a we interested 374-8502. 1505 Each the win< of the 1: when Y< An plane A vi in Be at offi ----

' ,. . ., / ' . ' ' . CONCORDJENSIS, Tuesday, Octo-ber 10, 1972 3 Wood:y. · lll,l~en:­ Cerebral. Sex BLITHER The Girl's Glee Club will hold auditions at 7. p.m. Tuesday and Attention all potential street Noted actress Siobhan Wednesday nights in rm. 104, ho~key players: there will be a McKenna will ap,pear this Arts building. meeting 'in Fox Lounge this Sunday, October 15,. at 7:30 p.m. * * * * by MARK ,URMAN · Wednesday. ·October ll., at 8:30 in the Ballroom at Schenectady The Union 'College Christian The,title sequence of Woody Allen's· Eve,~ything You Always p.m. No eJC.peri~nce is necessary. County Community College. The Fellowship will be meeting u, ....... ,,.. To KJ\ow Abolit S~x ;.; But Were Afraid:. To Ask consists Women are welcome. one-woman show will be entitled Thursday, October 12, 1972, at severafd~HM~lft~J\otogfal)Hed shots ·or r~bb,its milling about in · * * * .. * .. Here are Ladies.\ A seminar 9:00p.m. in Hale House Lounge. cream-color~d lhnbo. · Oissolvin~, orie'h;ttol'tfie ot:Jl'e'r;' the rabbits There will ·be a meeting of the will be conducted that afternoon Mr. Robert Wall, a layman from · to multiply and, for a few. moments, tne screen is flooded · PYE Club on · Wednesday. at 3 .p.m. * * . * * . . , First . Pres. Ch~rcb, will ?e them. then, as the sequence draws. to a 'Close, only one rabbit October ll at 7:30 p.m. in the · . . . · · . . speakmg on findmg answers . m em<uu·:.. _'Overexposed, meltin8'·into its vari,illa background, he. 'is basement of Silliman Hall, All ;\~ exht~ttion an? .. ~ale. ?f Christ Jesus. All are cordially uuLu~\· 6 · trior~ tha,Ii an arrangement of .pink oHfiees. His nose, a new members are welcome. , ·ongmal onental ar,t wrll take welcome. · · · e:listening' and fleshy·. triangle; pulses arid throbs with each * * *~ * ·place Wednesday; October' 25, fsuc:ces:sive ~miff. ~companying the entire. scene is a tinkly, jazzy, A lecture - discussion series ·from II a.m. to 8 p.m. in Fox • .....------------------. suit1,1bly h,eated re.cording of Cole. Porter's 1920's hit, \Let's concerning \The .Professor as a Lounge:- Call 370-6118 for For their first activity o~ Misbehave!\ It's a neat sequence· ~ funny, suggestive; and Scholar\ has been scheduled' this · information. this school year, Union SUicPOISJnigly. sexy in a cerebral sort of way. . ' term. Two faculty l,l'ieinbers will * * * * . College tlillel will sponsor an. From point on, the picture, which is Allen's' third venture as speak each night sch~duled about The six part ••Ethics and the ISRAELI DANCE NIGHT.: a director, declines -first slewly, then vert'iginoUs'ly - and, as· a their individual fields of research., ·Professions'' fall lecture series At 7:30 P.M. on T11esday, consequence it makes for a rath:et uneven J}iovie-going exp~rienc.e.' . the social significance of that ' will open tonighf with the focus October 17, Arts B. Rm. 202 However, even when Allen's comic inspitatitm as a writer fails, and . · res~atc;h, and 1\ow it relates td ·on engineeri-ng: will becom~ ·alive with spirit, · · it frequently does? there is s~fficient humo~ and polish in nis • t~e1r ~~les. ~s \~eachers:• A· :Union engineering professor · music, and dance instruction direction to keep the film moving along, 'lightly, professionally,~ ·.d~scussto~.penod wdl follow each emeritus Harold W. Bi'bber and from. U~ion students Judy and, on the. whole, successftilly .. ' . . , .. ·: . . .. presentation. retired Gen~:ral Electric Rabinowitz and. Oot Quart. For th,ose of you who are familiar with Allen's. previous work, Oct. II Hale House Student Cotnpany engineer' C. Curtis · IJoth girls are very ·ramiliari this may sound a bit strange because tile situation has always been· Lounge 7:30 p.m. with Michael Herskind, who currently chairs :with over thirty different: ·just the reverse. In lhe pa!!t, his. matetiltl h~s b¢en fairly sound .but' Shinagel (Eng.); Ken Kusterer the New York State Professional Israeli dances, arad hope to ·poorly exe~uted. Due to carele.ss pacing and primitive technique, (Soc.). Ell'gineers Committee on ¢onvey their enthu~iasm for much of his,.po~en.ti~l ~l;l,mor i~ wasted,. preducirig dead spots in his ·* * * * . Professional Conduct, will be the this lively recreation to many films, Both Take The Money 'and Ru11 and Bananas have a kind of Refunds on Glass Harp tickets · principal speakers. others. spastic thyt:bml have always found hardto take.···, ·· · · 11;re availal?le in tbe Student The program is set for 8 p.m. A~ a .few hours qf l~raell · Although Sex also advance's in fits and starts, 'when it starts it'. . Activities· office. , in: the audjtorium of the· sPciaJ · dancint is bound to work up really moves. Perhaps one reason why it works so well i.s that it.has . : * * * * sciences b-uildi.pg. P¥~sid'ent;: ,~any :1\Ppetites, cider and been conceived as a series of skits. In this manner Allen has .been Tickets are now on sale for the· Harold C. Martin w'm ~give·~ cf'Onuts · will' be served for able to avoid his foi:~er propfem of not being ab~e to sustain a jok~· ., · .Oct.· 21 Dave· Mason· concert, to remarks opening the series which refreshment. for very long. · . · . Unicip stqdents only.· ·Being that· wiU continue through Nov. 2l. The officers of Hillel hope Seizing up<m some of the sillier and more Je11<fing questions in seating is. limited and a large , . ·* * \' * that this~ their first activity, Dr. David Reuben's book, ( .. What happens during ejaculation?'\ CfOWd· ~s expected, students are ·G· o' ·.f· '.C·e. e . will be a great success. Any \Do aphr9disiacs really work?\) Ailen has written ·scenes which are . urged to bl.lY, their tickets. now. . . f~ . and all members of the college - in essence, facetious responses.. to the questions. After all, such Off-campus sales begin qn community are welcome. So, ridiculous. guestions deserve ridiculous answers, and in at least four Fr~day. Buy your tickets now and House take a break from that mid· of the seven vignettes Allen's sense of tile ridiculous and the insane don't get shut out. . week studying, and drop by is entirely successfuL · * * * * This Friday night, the Union Old Cltapel next Tuesday Yet, weaying in and out of ~ven the worse segments, Allen Remember the RIDE College Coffeehouse is . very night and liberate some of manages to interpolate highly entertaining put-downs and send~ups BOARD? Bring your ride needs pleased to present John Roberts ~ha_t stor~ up energy! of _nearly_ every .genre of ~lm, dram~; ·television, an? advertising. down to WRUC, and tune in to and Tony\Barrand at 8:30 ;in the' · · · Thts brand of h1gh-saturat10n humor. 1s truly the major ingredient 1 'RUC at lO o'clock Wednesday Old Cl)apel. Admission, as usual, of the film's success and is something completely new to Allen's and Thursday night~. will be. 5011!. Those of you who ·Dawson work. At any given moment there is something going on; at worst it * \' * · * remember seeing them .here last can b~ mildly atnusing, at best it can be quite hysterical. · Pre-law. students: pick up the year will undoubtedly recall the Continued f~om Page 1 Volunteers are needed to help Volunteers for the food co-op with a breakfast program at Nott on Hamilton Hill are needed. If Terrace SchooL 50 children are· interested please conta:ce Lorna served each day. Sign up for one Stevens, room 3'0iWest: or cail day a week, 7:45-9:00 a.m. If 346-9344. interested in helping please call 374-8502. * * * * Moffett's Liquor Store 1505 VanVranken Ave. Schenectady, New York 17308 -ADD TO-YOUR EDUCATION- - LJ:,\A.RN MORE ABOUT WINES-· Join Our WINE TASTIN<i CLUB No Admissions Charge ·- No Requirements Each n:'onth we select a diffen:nt v. ine· to be tc~tcd. There i' a cai'd dc•cribing the wme 1n great detail •o you can learn about it. On thi• card there b a picture of the label so you can remember the wine in the future to irilpre~• \our date when you dine out or simply want a good bottle of wine. . . · And the nose comes with the rest of the Plane that you can fly in free with a Navy Aviation Officer. College men. Are you interested i11 flying with the Navy when you graduate? Be at the Union College campus October 11. We' 11 be there all day to talk abou·t officer programs and to make arrangements for flights. second edition of the LSIS this good time you had listening to Thursd~y, ~et~be~ 12~in SS 216. their renditions of dirty English As a final note, it's a damn shame that opening a concert to the mass~s inevitably results in so rue obnoxious free loaders comin·g, as evidenced by . S~turday night's loud display in the mezzanine ·of Memorial Chapel. J.ay Billiards Lounge drinking, and other songs. They are two graduate students from Cornell, who, mostly without accompaniment, put a lot of life PLAY POOL- RELAX · illto these traditional songs. The Daily 10-9 p.m. Sat. 10-9 p.m. Sun. 2 v.m.-8 p.m. RESEARCH MATERIALS All Topics Send for your descriptive, up-to·date. IZ8-page, mail order catalog of 2,300 quality researr.t! papers. Eoclose $1.00 to cover postage and handling. RESEARCH UNLIMITED 519 GlENROCK AVE., SUITE 203 LOS ANGEtES, CALIF. 90024 (213) 477-8474 • 477·5493 \We need a local salesman'' DIAMOND ENGAGEMENl & WEDDIN(; RIN<;s 3,000 ring selections in all styles at 50% dio;count to . students, st11ff. ;tnd fa cult}. 8u) direct from leading manufacturer and SAVE! Yz carat $179, ~. carat only $299 .. For free C(ilor folder write: Box 42, Fanwood,. N.J. 07023 Quality food Reasonable Din11er 4·8 p.m. Prices . I RedFox Inn: Charcoal Burgers R-Midnight elements of their songs which are most entertaining come across best in a live performance. Also appea.ring this Friday is Sue Bindleglass, a student at Union College, who played in the Coffeehouse . .last year. Along wi.fh free coffee and doughnuts, this coffeehouse should be very enjoyable -go and see. Levfs· Dave's· Mens ·shop 453 State St. (downtown Schenectady) BOULEY ARD BOWL 1315 Erie Blvd. 40 AMF BOWLING LANES 374-4171 Bowl for Health The School of. Management of SYRACUSE UNIVERSITY, Syracuse, N.Y. will be interviewing interested applicants for the Masters in Business Administration and M.S. in Accounting Program on Wednesday, October 18, 1972 9 a.m. - 12 p.m. For further information inquire at the Placement office on campus. Co/~a~a;:::tes 1 ~c:=?=>u<=:=:=:xx==>u<=:=?l~t==•n<:::====x~ >iy '\'----A ..... ·~-'~_r:_r B-~~-~-~_(;_J:_ .. E_· ---~\ ~ B:~:.~: Ma~~ ~!s~t~e ~ 1(4'1£¥.¥.. ~ · Program ro< Master's Degte< in Busine\' Administration For n tiliiUIIJI Business and Non-Busine\ Maio\ U D , M On-campus interviews October 16, 1972; 2:30-4:30 p.m. b) ~ aves' ens Shop ~ Mr. Fred Baker 453 State St. Sign-up: Placement Office (downtown Schenectady) · ?i ..,.c;:; ==~K ;; ~t<::: : :::xxc==:::::\lK:::::=:::>tx=:=:>UC . :xx:::'J

4 Tuesday, October IO, 1972 Gridders ''Washed Out'' By Saxon Wave, 16-0 by MARK W. MINDEL The .. Fiying Dutchmen\ Union College's unique cheering section, hit it right on the nose last weekend. Their billboard selection of the week announced to the visiting Alfred Unive'rsity football squad, \your cup runneth over.\ Whether or not· they referred to Alfred's Lambert Bowl 'cup' or to another type is unimportant; if the Saxons had brought their prized possession along with them to Schenectady, there was enough rain over the weekend to overflow it. Everling's charges when Mark Ceresono blocked Bzdak's first punt of the game inside the 40 yard line, but Union qt~ickly fumbled What turned out to be its second best scoring opportunity of the game (Deschler's run brought Union inside the twenty). Union stopped the purple and gold throughout the first quarter and the garne quickly turned into a punting contest. On the day, Union punted nine -times and Alfred eight. This is where the knee-injmed, Westbrook was missed most. On the 12 returns of Alfr.ed kicks (four kickoffs included), Union could not break one loose for any considerable yardage.. A speedy Westbrook might have. into the second half. Union did not give up in the second half as the defense permitted only a 39 yard field goal by Hockenberry, but a,gain the- incredibly· resistant Saxon defense permitted nothing save for Deschler's fourth quarter ramble. Still, after a last ditch effort tacJded Deschler inside the twenty, the Alfred defense would not let Unibn get any closer to the goal, and all hopes for tying faded when the Garnet turned the ball over on downs. Statistically, Rearic hit on 8 of 19 passes for 45 yards and Deschler accumulated 75 yards on 8 carries. Union travels to Rochester this weekend for a match with the tough Yellow Jackets, and returns home the following weekend for a crucial game with rival R.P.I. W . ·. •'t·t• ''U. n · · ... 1 ·•a:ms . · · · psets Garnet So·ccer . . - . by .PAT BOllEN It was a dark and dreary day ... and it was, too, It was a day suited only for ducks, but our intrepid soccer stars braved the storm to battle a tough William~ team. Unfortunately, the weather seemed to get the best of the ,players as Union lost by a scoi'e of 5·0. It may sound Uke sour grapes, but the weather reallY did play a :big part in making the score so onNided. Playing in ankle-deep mud made running and ball Gontro1 difficult, to say the least. For some re~son, Williams didn't seem to feel the conditions as much as the Union players did. Goal defense was clifficult because the ball was so slippery, a;nd the visibility so poor. 'fhere were several. fluke · goaJs scored Saturday that may not ha:ve been scored had the weather been better. None of this, afcmuse, erases the loss, ot makes it any easier to bear; but it hardly seems fair to be forced to play under such atrocious conditions. It is not a proper test ·of the skill of either team. l can understand. the problems in rescheduling a game, but certainly something c0uld be arranged. Players cannot get psyched for a game played sloshing through mud in a steady rain. Williams has an excellent team, there's no question. Perhaps the score would have been closer had the weather been better, but we'll never find out because these two specific teams will never meet again. This loss in no way mars the outlook of the Union soccer players because they all played a good, steady game. My only wish, and that of, rm sure, many other people, is for a rematch. Congratulations to the JV team for coming out in such sloppy weather to beat the Williams JV's by a score of 5-1, Despite the downpour which began late Friday night and continued on throughout most of the ·game, the mighty Saxons kept their unbeaten streak rolling, ( 12 straight wins) and insured their hold on first place in this year's Lambert ratings, with a J6 ... 0 victory over Ron Westbrook - less Union. The game, which promised to be an offensive battle between the combined running and passing attacks of Alfred's Henry Bzdak, Tom Vredenburgh, and Charlie Young, and Union's Westbrook and Davd Rearic, became a muddy defensive match. Early in the second quarter Vredenburgh broke the stingy Dutchmen defense as he hit on his eighth touchdown pass of the season to All ECAC end Charlie Young on a crucial third-down 18 yard pin-pointer. Record- breaking .kicking specialist Don Hockenberg added the extra point for a 7-0 bulge. Despite the rain, Rearic, who was getting nowhere handing off to backs Deschl.er, Jack Siedlecki, and AI Albano, went to the air and was somewhat effectiv..e. But with I :25 remaining in tne half, Howard Fahey, Alfred's small defensive ace, made an excellent snaring interception of a Rearic aerial on the dead run and returned it inside the forty. Alfred then put the Garnet's upset hopes further out of reach by marching the ball in in five plays, scoring on a four yard end-around sweep by Rick Hansinger. The partially defelected extra point bounced off the goal posts, but Alfred took what\ proved to be an insurmountable !3 point lead Panthers Surprise Frosh Grid, 21-14 JV Soccer by FRANCESCO et al. Neither the swashing of the rain nor the chilly Autumn winds stopped the high spirited J.V. Soccer team from humiliating Williams College 5-J.. by BILLY DEJJEAR ihe Union defense, which had held opponents to an average of only I 50 yards per game. remained tough against the highly touted Alfred offense, holding the·· Saxons to their lowest output of the year - 240 yards. But Union never got started on offense as the bigger Saxons begrudged only 107 total yards., In fact, if it were not for Mike Deschler's 66 yard scamper down the right siddine during the middle of the last qua;rter, Union would have had negative rushing yardage for the day. The game opened optimistically for Coach Gerry Water Polo by BUFFALO The sport which captivated so many audiences at the recent summer Olympics has finally come tb Union. Thanks to Bruce Goldberg, a water polo club has been ·established. It was started with the intention of getting the swim team in shape for the upcoming season. but the response from non-swimmers has been enthusiastic. With freshman Tim Sheridan assisting him, Goldberg has been coaching the members of the team in the basics of the sport, such as passing, shooting, and catching the ball with one hand. There has been a little scrimmaging, hut it has been primarily a period of learning. Last Thursday, as the freshman football team was pointing toward their October 13th opener,. word was received that the season would commence the following day against a visiting Middlebury eleven. This sudden change in schedule caught coach Ken Michelson's squad fl.t a time when they had not yet perfected certain aspects of their all-~round play. Even so, the Garnet managed to draw first blood as they tallied in the opening quarter. Quarterback John Bnllaid set up the score when he found split end Alan Schur for a 30 yard gain to the Middlebury two. On the following play, Rich Rigo busted through the line to give Union its only lead of the day, 6-0~ One game has been scheduled so far, a tournament at Hamilton on October 29, but dual meets with RPI, Albany State and Harpur ar.e being planned. The team now numbers 25 and anyone else who is interested in playing is asked to contact Bruce Goldberg at Beta, or Tim Sheridan,.or go to practice at the pool. Practice is held five days a week, starting at 3:30 p.m. r\Qr:;;u;;;l rDa;.;br;se>c'\cl~~n~!<rs .. ~ f 1517 Van Vranken Avenue In the third quarter, an excellent Union punt pinned the visitors inside their own five yard line, and an attempted third down pass wound up in the hands of middle guard Peter Sherman, who was immediately tackled at the three. On the ensuing play, halfback Jay Yung scored, and the two point conversion knotted the game at 14 apiece. ln · the final quarte.r, Middlebury, aided by a questionable facemask penalty, was able to score on a 25 yard halfback option pass with exactly one minute remaining. Working against the dock, Union generated its best offensive drive of the second half. .Milton Herring ran for 23 yards and Tony Adams connected on three straight passes to bring the ball inside the Middlebury 25. But on the final play of the game, Adams was trapped behind the line and Middlebury had a 21-14 victory. Led by freshman John Denio, a product of Hoosic Valley High School, who tallied for two goals, and by a great performance of both . goalies, Burnstend and Deluca, the young hooters were never behind in the game. . . Don Ward added one point on the score board and Dave Sanderson sneaked another one with a free kick from the 30 yard line. \Big AI\ Ritche torpedoed a 40 yarder to the top left hand corner to highlight the game. John Walker, a sophomore, was a standout in the offensive unit in assisting on 3 goals, while teammate Tim Fitzgerald held the defensive unit together. . Coach Scanlon is still conservative in making remarks about his team 1 s future after this glamorous victory, but he hoped to have something to say after today's game which will be played away at Albany State. GIRLS fWHAT. ARE, YOU • WAITING FOR? WE ARE HAVING AN UNBELIEVABLE f p . m hot dogs • [ll8 with best hot. SHIRTS- PANTS- SKIRl'S- DRESSES . . , ·. 1, 1 t 1 Hot'·D·o.·gs .. sauce in town! n ~···· .. · ... :'$.!. ·w.~' ~ Clearance Sale f u COATS - SHEETS - Bl.AN:KETS - DRAPES f' Serving Breal(/ast, ~ ~ SWEATERS - BLOUSES · £0 01 ! Lunch & Dinner ! · . . AU Students Receive A Discount ·~ i'i · · . · .lO , Open 7 days a week , ~ ,.d.l off EVERY PIECE t t 11 Mon.-Thurs. 6·1 a.m. a OF WEARING APPAREL il Fri. & Sat.· 6-4 a.m. ' f · <'ay . 9-1 a.m. f t _ _!r!_B!!·~~- _t tevrs· Dave's. Mens Shop 453 State St. (downtown Schenectady) MARRIED COl)PLES Part~ Time Job Care for other people's children or homes while on vacation. Free room and board, work.as you want. Mpst have car, I child allowance. $100./week. Contact 355-8395 anytime, 2 Regina Or., Schenectady. \ IN STOCK. 1630 Upper Union St. Phone: 372-9150 Plenty of Free Parking In Rear of Store Vol --- M by OJ \Now building is in sigJ know tJ enrol/rnel Jearn to what we4 This si out quot~ than the College, Martin. l president essence o fi!ture dir What a is the jc college in will Unio in the n~JI The·pc questions foundatio /these qu Martin w roots. of i1 capacity. No Ion deans an• than-nom go the p1 appointe Willard I general indicate; ·. capacity. Now·tl president long•rang• directly c parents, a seern tha fade eve students quite the order fo accurately changes a more irni him tom: our comr and info meets re committe~ chair the. Martin al Q.E.D. m ago, when available dialogue students in Presider some of t he sees af! going: I) Me opment programs. presently and propo: to se€ implement: 2) An it of the stl the mean statement Martin fee raises basi' and pr( confronted 3) Abso: maintain strong fact 80% Ph. I feels that i institutior .Professiona to have · Personnel. that the d small priva Primar.ily student rt: and shottl<

founded at Union College in 1877 - ··\ '\ . ... . . . - - . Vol. 102, No. 7 'Friday, October 13,1972 20 cents Martin OutlineS I'New\ ·Function Comp Ed Controversy: by DEBBIE G:LASSER \Now that the end of the building program (flt Union) is in sight and no»; that we know that we're stabilizing enrollment, our rnai11 job is to Jearn to make the most of what we are here iogether.\ Division II, ACS Ideas This sincere and well-thoughh out quotation :is from none other than the man at the top of U~ion College, President Harold C. Martin. In these few words, the president. has described the· essence of his ''new'' job and the , PootoiJyScottBurns f!Iture direction of our institution. President Harold C. Martin Wbat are we doing here? What o·ur·. . . off:.ers gre-a·t is the job of a sm,all private Situation college in this age? Will and .how opportun'ity for these will Unio~ change for the better reiationships and they should be in the n~xtfew yeax:s? taken advantage of to the l.ltmost. The, possible ahswers to these 4) Greater use \of oppoFtunities questions . are . lying at the in independent study.Dr. Martin foundation of education. It is ·feels that today's students. are too /these questions that President dependent upon faculty for Martin will be trying. to get ·to the learning and that their patterns roots. of in his new administrative of dependency should diminislt, in capacity. academic life, as well as they do No longer do all the college socially ... Unforttm~tely, . many deans and students with bigger-. opportu!l~tles for th1s goal, such than-normal academic problems as .proficlenc~ exams and self- go the president. That is newly .. des1gned maJors,, are seldom appointed Acting Provost used, The pres1dent strongly Willard Enteman;s job... and as ?opes t? _ s~e much more ~tudent general consensus seems to 11cademtc mdependence Ill .. the . indicate he's doing well ih that future .. · . : 1 1 · · • · · - · · ••It is a great pleasure for me to capact y; ' f' ·d· t' · · t· d th' · · . fi II· Now' thdt our already remote m ·tme . o .. o mgs .care ·u Y president i$ working mostly on that. I pr~vwusly had to do long•range planning ~ which is hurnedly, (m the abs~nce. of a directly conce.rned with alumni, provost), . states D~. Martm. As parents, and friends _ it would o~~ . pres1dent begms to wor~ seem that his prl:!sence would dlh~ently at soJ?~ o~ t~e ~o~t fade even further from .the baste goals of our mstJtUtlO~, 1t ts students and faculty. Actually, probable that the com.mon 1m.age quite the contrary is true. In of the remote ,and macces~1ble order for the president to Harold. c .. Martm may turn mto accurately plan for revisions and one ofgemal nearness. Senot~e. Debates by DAVID WAGENKNECHT The first meeting of the College Senate fer the 1972-73 academic y.ear was 'held Wedne~day afternoon at 4:3(). The fir$t item on tile agenda was an amendment to · th~ College Senate By-Laws concerning the Provost's ability to Vote. The ratified amendment consists of a short interjection designed to clarify the meaning of the By-Law. Next to be . discussed was perhaps the most substantial item on the agenda. This was a proposal submitted. to the. Senate by the Comprehensive Education Board. Although this did not seem to be too significant a proposal; it did meet with some objecdons and much discussion. '' The main objections ·were raised by representatiVes from . -&e:·'·:'Bnglish Department. These representatives felt that · the proposal might be creating the Polisibility of Fteshina~ Comprehensive Education 10. classes becoming less concerned with developing necessary writing skills. They were also concerned that these classes might not enjoy the benefits of the small size that they now have. Despite these objections, the proposal was unanimously passed. almost The next matter of business concerned· a change in the Governance Report to bestow responsibility for College Honors upon the Honors Committee. This was done merely to make Honors responsibilities more unified, because formerly the Committee on Standing was responsible for all Colle.ge Honors, and the Honors Committee was responsible mere.Iy for Departmental Honors. This move made the\ Honors Committee responsible for aU Honors procedures. The final item on the agenda was consideration of The Freshman Year Report. This consideration ·was required by the May 25, 1972 meeting of the College· Senate. Unf()rtunately, also _required by the May 25 meeting were certain informational reports, which had not been completely prepared. Therefore, a proposal to consider The Freshman Year Report was almost immediately tabled until the next meeting of the College Senate. The meeting was then adjourned. changes at our college, it will be s·h· . . I K .. t· . . 0 ~ore im. portan,t than ever ~or · . 1 nage US erer · •pe n htm to make dtrect contact With · . I . our community, both formally . . . and informally. He . presently p f . ·- s . ·h l . s· • s meets. regular!~ with. ~everal ro essor- c _o_ar . erie committees, wh1le coiltmumg to · .. · · · - · . chair the All-College Senate. Dr. Martin also plans to revive. his by PHYLLIS EDELMAN Q.E.D. meetings of three years Initiating this term's series of ago. where he will make himself lecture-discussions, the Professor available for open, informal and the Schol~r, Mr. Ken dialogue with any and all Kustere-r, Instructor of students interested. Sociology, and Professor President Martin has described Michael Shinagel, Chairman of some of the directiens in which the Department of English, . he sees and hopes to see Union spoke Wednesday night to a going: rather intimate gather~ng of I) M 0 r e ext s· d. 1 students and pro. fessors m Hale . en tVe eve - . · . ·L . opment of tran d' . ·. 1 •. .I Hou. se_.Stu. den.t · ounge. , . · s lSClp mary . ·R· ·l· • . c · bl . · · h' · programs. A1thougl) tnere an: .e axmg com1orta. y m. ts presently a few in engineering cha~r~ Mr. ~ usterer. spoke ~f the and proposals for more, he hopes deciSlOns whtc~ motivated hun to to see much more come to Umon College as :a implementation of the programs. faculty. member, and of hts 2) An increase in the diversity research. . . , of the student body. Although , K,~sterer .. par~tc:apate.d , t.n the meanin~ of tbis oft-used pohtlCal actlVltles m th~ 1'969 s .m statement is not concrete, Dr. ord_er to help people. n,taxt~tze Martin feels that this issue which their control over the1r hves. In raises basic questions of fi.nance an effort to \m~~imize control and program, must be over my own ac:tvt~y I made the confronted now. move from a prmter to a faculty 3) Absolutely continuing to me~ber at Un~on . College; maintain Union's particuiady movmg from· a Situation. where strong faculty with an impressive you ~av~ almost no control, 80% Ph. D.'s. President Martin punchtng lh and out each day to feels that it is important for our one ?f great~r.contr?l.\ institution With SO many HJs actiVIty lD J)ol~t!cal professionally oriented students, movem~nts led to pohtical to have · professionally trained ~rustrattof!S, a?d pushecl ~usterer Personnel. On this point, he feels 1~ two dtrectlons. The. ftrst Was that the distinctive quality of a hts .. personal-. solution, the small private college is the warm, dectston to become a professor. Primarily intellectual, faculty- . The second. was to try and student relationships that can \'understand. tn ! better way how and should be developed fully. to be effecttve. The result was Kusterer's decision to return to · skills through these movements. Yale University and switch his The establishment of schools major from English litera.ture to drew together these same Sociology. (At this point activities.\ Kpsterer passed a glance to In closing his lecture; K usterer · Slti:na.g.el whos,e m.uffled said he \would like to comment Wa!i, \A big mistake.\) : disestablish the connection Discussing his research, between schools and the learning Kusterer noted his \interest in process. Reawaken the idea that work and work organi:z:ations.\ learning and going to school are This led him to the study of the hardly ·related at alL Learning \relationship between Agrarian takes place over a longer span of peasant movements and various time and in a greater variety of land reforms from bureaucratic places.\ and peasant groups.\ · Professor Shinagel, relaxedly Kusterer continued the lecture smoking his cigar, then told of discussing his thesis W'hich the incidents leading to his concerns educational institutions professorship and research. and the learning process. His Originally ft;oll'l New York dissertation is on \the purposes City, he decided that there \had and function of sc.hools as .public to be a better life,\ so applied agencies, set up by government and was accepted to the Cornell for educating, to be attended by School of Agriculture. After mass popular society. Education spending a summer on a farm is an instrume.nt in the and a year at Cornell, Shinagel continuing liberation of man, at realized he was on ''the wrong the same tim,e it has road\ and \volunteered for the institutionalized social control.\ draft\ during the Korean War. Going back to the Jacksonian In the army, Shinagel decided Period in the United States, the psychology was a good career, so 1920's in Central Mexico, and after the service he entered the 1920's and 1930's in Chile, Oberlin College in Ohio as a when ·schools were firs.t psychology major. ln the middle institutionalized, Kusterer noted of his junior year he switched to that \all were periods of social English literature ''with no idea unrest with mass movements of to the future.\ Oberlin as an all kinds mobilizing, pu!ling institution of higher learning together all people. People were teaching themselves basic literacy Ctmtinued on Page 3 Division n Y.otes CEd O'ut by DAVE STROM A week ago Wednesday, the Division II Faculty voted 23 to I to eliminate the Comprehensive Education program as a formal policy. This resolution now goes on to the College Senate, where it is expected to be approved and sent on to the Curriculum Affairs Committee. The proposal drawn up by the Social Science' Faculty basically eliminates the Comp Ed Board as the body for deciding which courses should be taught and places that power upon each depa;tment. The proposal also calls for a distribution requirement, which would still call for each student to take S!llven required courses. However, under the new policy, six of these -courses would be frQm the four DivimU'!W\~ of ·· tile cotlege (Humanities: Social Sciences. Science, and Engineering), with not more than two courses in any Division. The seventh course would be of the \experimental education\ type that is presently being offered in the Comp Ed system. Professor Manfred Jonas, Chairman of the History Department and head of the Division ii faculty, c~tej:l tq~ main reason for eilactm'g tlus proposal as the .. dissatisfaction of the standards of the Comp ·Ed Board in picking the present courses.\ lt is his belief that the good Comp Ed courses will probably remain the same under the new proposed plan. Jonas, as do many of the Faculty ·Of the Social Sciences, feels that we need a more rigorous weeding-out of Comp Eds and that this plan would succeed in \getting us out of a curricular rut.\ At this time, many schools around the country are presently making efforts to abolish all sorts of required courses (except for those required of one's major) and, indeed, Union had had a distribution requirement before the adoption of the Comp Ed program. However, this proposal is not at all like the old pre- Collip Ed system. This play will still give a student the variety of different kinds of educational opportunities that he gets with Comp Ed ~ such a,s a term abroad, a project, the options, etc. The main difference is that the courses would be chosen by the individual departments, rather than by the Comp Ed Board. Another advantage of the proposed systern would be to clarify the confusion that exists over Comp Ed lO and freshman seminars ~ the former for all students and the latter only for non-majors. The plan would make all courses freshman seminars and out of t·hese courses freshmen would choose their • required courses. · · ' d Continued on Page6 •d

2 CONCORDIENSIS • T I • Editor-in-Chief. ........................... (jeorge Baiil News Editor .................................... Tim ~:ain Associate Editor ......................... Matthew Swartz Managing Editors ................ , ....... Rita Morandi · Jim Rostcnberg Features Editor ............................ A·I Reisch Sports Edilor ................... : ........... Bruce R;itchcldcr Photo Editors .............................. Lcs Kernan ;Jeff Weilburg Bttsincss Manager. ....................... Mike Hurley !'iational Advertising ................... Stephen Kelly Suhscripti.om ............................... Mike Bernstein Fxccutl\ c Editor;. ......................... Peter Dickerman Ray Faught Bill Erichson Jim Smith Brian Lewis Stuart Abramson Andy Richman Scott Reiter . Malcolm Snowden Nelson Wei! Larry Wharton ' Louis S, Snitkoff CONCORD¥ STAFF Louis Barash Pat Bohen Mitch Lubart Steven Kra·katier Marty Sherman Woody Outherz Francesco Isgro PhyllJs R. Edelman Gail Goodman Robert Shugoll Mark Mindel Bill West Ron Aines Phil Alcabes Dave Strom Woody Lauer Billy DeBear Scott Burns Tom Conley Ocm Hamerman hrd Luca~ Bob Sali Jolin Polydoutis David Wagenknecht Concordiensis is pleased (o announce the appointment of Stephen Kelly as National Advertising Manager. Lock Your Door On Tuesday and Thur.sday mornings this week, rooms in four dormitories were entered in the hours before 6 o'clock. Money and jewelry have been removed from the rooms, and, amazingly, every room which ha~ been entered has been unlocked; the occupants have gone to sleep and not locked their doors. Director of Security John Kleinkauf has released a description of a suspect in the robberies, a· compilation of reports made to him on Thursday. The suspect is a white male~ aged twenty to twenty-two years, over six feet tall, with slender build, and shoulder-length blond or light brown hair. When seen at 6 a.m. Thursday, he was dressed in a striped shirt and stocking feet. The suspect is not a student, and Mt. Kleinkauf feels that he may be a drug user. Further, Mr. Kleinkauf advises all students to lock their doors - especially when retiring for the night -· and if they should see anyone resembling the suspect, to call the campus police (370-6178} immediately. It is almost incomprehensible that any student would not lock his or her door when going to bed; that is only inviting trouble, and there is too much of that around campus. Lefs not allow anyone to merely open a door at 5 a.m. and commit a crime. Lock up. gsb Educational Stagnation While not questioning the motives behind the recent actions of the Division Two Faculty in regards to Comprehensive Education, the actions themselves bear comment. Comp. Ed. is not functioning as smoothly as it might, nor is it creating new horizons in education; it is,. however, still a creative program with a good deal o1 potential and a great amount of value both for the professor and for the student. We feel that if Comp. Ed. is at all capable of being modified, then it should be retained, altered; but certainly not abolished. It just seems to us that a move toward a distribution requirement can only be interpreted as a step backwards into educational stability through educational stagnation. lt is at times like this when one must begin to question just what the actual goals of this institution are. amr Concordiensis 1s puohsh~d C\Cr~ luesda) and 1-nda) dunn!( th~ schoo1 )car except during examination and >aco1twn .P<'TI<>d' h) the student bod~ of li.nwn College. Schencctad\. ~ Y \atwnal ad\t:rli,mg r<·pr~sciltati>~, '\iatJOnal Educational Ad,ertismg S~nlct', Inc. Cnlkgt• f>uolish<.'rs Reprt••cntati,~. National EducatiOnal Ad\ertisrn!! St'rlll'C. Inc. \.Y .C. Fditnrial Office. Old Gym. Union Colh.·g~. Puhlteation Offict•. lllle .lm1sh World Publicatwm. 771 State Street. Schenectud\. ~. Y. 12.107 . .14 ·2356. En wed in the Schenectad1 post office as Second Cl~ss Mail MatrcrSuhscrrption 20 cenb tl copy:$R a )e;{r delivered anywhere in the (lnited States Deadline for all cop). which must oc t}ped and double-spaced. is 7 p.m. on Monday and fhursday ai the .Concord} off tee. abo\e Old Chapel. Office telephone nLimher i• 370-6155. htit the office IS·onl) in u~e on Monda~ and Thursday nights. For all editorial matters. call the editor-in-chief ut 393- 1640; for information call Student Activities Office at 370-6118. ! .CONCORDlENSIS, Friday, October /3, 1972 ' ~li/ : . :b·y oiA v1n s. CAsTLEMAN Omother When I returned hpme I saw nothing to look at the front an~Ior editorial pages. And But the bare horizon damn, those A.r. and U.P.I. photos are just a Sad stories bummer. Oh for the ueace of Jackson'!! Garden! Walls covered with dust On occasion I have attempted to ·coi::pe _to, terms .Qu/let holes with some of the world,'s more 'pl'ominent The burned tin .roofs absorditi¢s. Sometimes .rve ~~en. managed to .move The cries. mysel( iq a _positive manner. f:loweYer; t~~l:e · is one Wguyen Trong Giang· absl!rdity ~ith which I have had a paJ.1:ic~larly hard Most of you probably haven't seen: this poem time 'dealing. That is ·o.ur .venerable institution· before. lt appeared on the Far~east . wall of the .. and its contented occupants. library's reading room on Oct. 9th and lOth. Don;t Monday Tom Hayqen spoke of vision and feel badly. I realize how difficult it. is to look at courage. I don't think that many people .here anything in that direction. There is an ocean that understand the meaning or. sigqificailc~ of th~se forms a mirror out there, and you just might be words. Too many of us can .see no further than the compelled to confront yourselves. · · · books we feel hold our future, ap,<f, ~o9.rage ~trem!! to Surprise of surprises! Somehow you pqlled it all have been put in storaM since the $'pring 9f 197(). together today,. and you managed to take a quick Thus the question arises. What .results ·from· aUj of peek oqtward. Perhaps it was beca1.1se you knew this? I think that Beulah Sanders had it right wlien that the cute image of Jane Fond.a would prevent she prophesied in so many words .that, \you are you from seeing yolir!!elves. Or maybe you needed going to pay for it.\ Festering sores can only be some of Tom ·Hayden's rap to help you sleep neglected so long. tonight. . Jane and Tom obviously had everything 0 mother ··under control. They were going to get something When/ returned to Union going, It was O.K ... to leave them there to talk to the I saw nothing walls, while you hurr:ied to eat Saga's lettuce. But a barren chapel Something is terribly wrong here. Perhaps you Empty anecdotes . are all subject to an overdose of the \real\ world, WallS covered with Poison Ivy and you just can't move to take the most minimal The unraised slate roofs action. For many, it has become a trying experience The ignorant laughter. Hollywood: Phase II by MATTHEW SWARTZ possible eXplanation to It is surprising to me that there paradox of paradoxes. this (altheugh the previous example might be an extreme analogy for some) we all111ust do and do very soon. is still a good deal of doubt in As I said previously, Fonda people's minds nowadays. and Hayden are champions of a However, there is and that's · moralist's cause. Because of this, really what is important. Minds when they speak to large seem to be groping for an answer audiences, what they do·, to black and white issues when essentially, is raise questions in there are few of these, indeed. the minds of their listeners about Compromise, unfortunately whether they, the listeners, are seems to be the order of the day. moral people. This can be very Those not capable of 'shocking as you might perceive If compromise and lacking the you give it some thought. For ability to temper themselves as instance, how might a German the need arises will fail more who lived in Germany during often than succeed. Nazi reign respond to the What I reaily hope people get from this article is that, sure the program Monday came on very strong fot some who had not been aware of our present imperialist efforts or for . others who might not have reflected upon it recently. B~t try to proJect what 'would· happen to New York City if the people we are bombing were capable of causing .slight damage to, say, the George Washington Bridge. Jane Fonda and Tom Hayden question of whether he felt are two very ded.icated human responsible for the atrocities beings championing morals committed in and by his against an issue that is, well, homeland during the pre-World sickeningly American. Who can War II and World War II years? give logical answers to the This is very· tough to reconcile questions raised by our use of but as Americans it is something The tragedy . is ' really the ignorance forced upon us all (successfully transcended by few) by lies of omission told not only t(l us but for us. · anti-personnel weaponry in Indochina and that we stubbornly refuse to allow the peoples of these countries the right to determine their own destiny? I don't think anyone can, yet there are people, intelligent ones at that, who still maintain a confused stand against what was presented in Memorial Chapel on Monday afternoon. My intent here is to propose what I have seen as a * * * * An exhibition and sale of . original oriental art will take place Wednesday, October 25, from II a.m. to 8 p.m. in Fox · Lounge. Call 370-6118· for information. * * * * Remember the RIDE BOARD? Bring yout ride needs down to WRUC, and tune in to 'RUC at 10 o'clock Wednesday and Thursday nights. *· * * * The Chinese Language Club; in conjunction with The Comparative Communist Studies Program of Unio!i. College, Schenectady, presents A Look At China Today. Miss Christine Frank. a recent visitor to the People's Republic of China J will give a talk and slide show on Tuesday, October 17. 1972 at 7:30p.m. in Old Chapel. * * * * Noted actress Sio bhan McKenna will appe-ar this Sunday, October 15, at 7:30p.m. in the Ballroom at Schenectady County Community College, The one~woman show will be entitled \Here are. Ladies.\ Pollution Problems · by MARTY SHERMAN from direct contact with the By now the word environment untreated feces of the common has become a cliche. Like the barnyard anima.ls of weather, it is something most of Lichtenstein. The majo-r us talk about, but little action is symptom consists of the toes ever taken. Why should we act? curling up at the front, making it Basically, we feel no direct extremely difficult for the patient threat. With the upcominf~ to stand erect. In industrial areas referendum on November 7.. many people have fallen face-first known infamously a~ into machinery. In rural areas .Proposition 'One, we are offerel: many people have fallen face-first a relatively painless way to ease into piles of manure, thus our troubled minds. One thing I aggravating an already serious have noticed in past weeks is that · condition. As of yet there is no within the framework of the cure but those who might environmental movement · there become stricken are urged to are, as in all movements, groups wear rubber gloves and shoes at of fanatics. After careful all times. research I have uncovered some The ·final disastrous 'effect that of the things that have driven I uncovered o.qly after moments these otherwise notmal people tc of effort is hopus lostus. new peaks of frenzy. These an · Discovered by the Swede Sven the little-known effe.cts o1 Svenson, this illness manifests pollution that never make the itself with the growth of hair on CBS documentaries. the lungs of the victim. 'the One such effect is known as patient must be cut open and ctepletus .pubis. This situation surgically shaved at least twice a. arises from bad drinking water year. when combined with rotten air. There is little doubt that other. The victim loses all hair .. facial disgusting and dispicable diseases and otherwise. This affliction is. result from a polluted common to small industrial environment. I hope this towns along the Volga and has summary of ailments will, in been kept secret by the Russians some way, help explain the for fear of peasant revolt. Peopel fanaticism displayed by many suffering from this disease are environmentalists. The real sent north where the cold question now that we realize the· temperatures soon mli'ke them true and immediate danger we're d . in is what do we do about it? te. Another ailment . is curlis • Well, as I mentioned before, peditus. The cause of this disease there is a bond issue on is, as yet, undiagnosed but it is. November 7. This referendum. if· relatively , ~~rtain that i{ t stems,- CcmtiauedbD~ ,. . ' . ~ ~ . ' .. '+ • :a-· \\ 1J •

And ~ nent ane and b.ese the to } tof are be or ry rs 11 y '+ ' ' •• •'I • • . ,, ' . \ ,-.. . CONCORDIENSIS,· Friday, October JJ, 1972 3 . -- ' . ··Record: l.e.~v.iew::<_ . . N·ew Prin.·e Al-bum . - .. by ROBERT Sl:IUGOLL \Any friend-·t.hat's been turned down is bound to be a friend of mine,\ Coming from the first number on John Prine's new album \Piamonds in the Rough;'' those two lines tell the story of Prin~ and his m1,1sic .. ' On the albunJ, recorded by Atlantic, he bemoans liff;)'s downs in a bitter but touching fashion. Bom in Chicago, John Pdne worked ·a;s a mailman until a few years ago, when he ca.me upon the New York folk -scene. In 1971 he: put ()Ut his first album, ati :Untit)eq ·r~cord that contains a few songs, ,stu~h as \Ille$al Smile\ an~ \Same Stone,\ w~hich received some FM ·airplay. Prine's name w~s recently in the news of music w?en, while playing a set at N~w York's Bitter End; his good friend David Bromberg came oh stage with none other than Bob Dylan. Dyla~ played harp and harmonized with Prine whill! Bromberg suppJ1e.4 the back-up guitar. - .. P!J;\·~·I? in the Rough,\ a couple ·of mighty impressive . : studio ~~n:,pl~y with Prine, who picks a really good acoustic guitar ~ . hiinself. Previously mentioned David Bromberg is really sweet on · miind()lin.; . 'dobro. and. guitar.. Along with Bromberg, is Steve Goodmen who plays guitar and sings and who recently cut his first sol.o album. The t_hree· together produce excellent back-up music to Prme's folk songs, and make ihe best listening points on the album. Prine's music is country-flavored, but, as he says, it's about all of American life. He's been coJripared to the early Dylan, and beyond the obvious voice similarities the two certainly share a dim, cynical outlol'lk. the persistence of. Prines depresse<;l and \everything sucks\ attitude is what pr.events me from really enjoying this album. He conveys with true personal feeling how cynical one can become living a typical American life, but hearing it on all thirteen cuts is a bit too much, .at least for this listener. Prine.write.s sa1 but decent tunes in Dylanesque style, s1mg with a rough voice that get's a bit monotonous after a while. On the first . three numb~rs of \Diamonds in the Rough\ Prine sings of an encounter WJth Jesu~. who needed sorneone to pour hi-s hea\rt out to, a woman night club singer who's a rea] loser, what a drag memories are, and how seeing so many depressing people gives him \The Late John GarfieJd Blues.\ On \Sour Grapes;\ one of the album's bette-r son,gs, he is resigned to the fact that he doesn't give a damn about his having nothing, except that it bothers other people: · 1 couldn't care less {f' I didn't haw' a friend 'Cept people Would Sl/J' I was cra:::J' • And 1 wouldn't work 'cause 1 don't n£'ed moner But the same folks would sarI was la:::r · ' The next cut,' \Billy the Bu~,\ is one in which Prine wails about a boy whose whole life. is ruined because he is a cripple: \For tv.·o twisted legs and a childhood disease Leji Billy Just a bum in his dreams.\ The entire album works along these lines. After hearing tunes about his dt;inking problem, a man Whose wife runs off with a Fuller Brush Man, and a guilt-ridden Vietnam Veteran, one gets a strong impression that this :guy's been through a hell of a Jot. He . lets you know about it in the closing verse of \Rocky Mountain Time\. \Christ I'm so mixed up and lonC'/y 1 can't even makefi·iends with my hrain. I'm too young to be where I'm going, But l'm too pld to go hack again\ . Overall, the album is a bit of a letdown, especially afier hearing all the good things. rumored about his prior rekase. Prine is a talented lyricist, but his choice of subjects and dejected attitude towards everything, coupled with his mediocre melodies, don't make for overwhelming entertainment. • • • ' . ~ \6H05T o{ e lee t1ons p.a.s t ?'' WiLJJya' 1Jte;ur. 1 flk•i.ny? .bon'/ ya' khow i l j un -/l.lllc ~ ic 4.11. to ~e l,·e ve 1n GHo515? • • • • • • • • • • • • • tet.ters To the Editor: The fact that less than I 0 students attended the Social Committee's recent open meeting is not reason for Concordy's exa'lted editor to once again assail tht: student body. It merely points out the continuing decay of the SC to the point where they cannot even adequately publicize and administer their own internal ·Prof-Scholar lecture Series eVents. Bill Killen * * * * The Jewish Students Coalition of Albany S:tate wiil sponsor a mixer this Saturday night, Oct. 14, at Albany State. Admission is 75(1:. All students are invited to attend. Continued from Page 1 ' influenced Shinagel to realize that he \wanted to be in the academic community.\ With a fellowship to Harvard for his doctorate, Shinagel wrote his thesis on Daniel Defoe, the 18th century author of Robinson Crusl)e. From Harvard he went on to a job at Cornell University. With the edict, \publish or perish.\ Shinagel reworked his Defoe thesis into a book with a grant to .go to England. • q • • • Bureaucratic. Con Job \Defoe embodies the rise of the middle-class, something I could identify with as we're all middle-class people.\ Becoming interested in the rise of the middle-class and how it shaped the rise of the English novel, Shi·nagel began to draw on other disciplines, to \fulfill myself in a broader, more definite way.\ the senior Comp. Ed., Shinagel said he would do so if he could teach a course in pornography. Not knowing much about pomography, Shinagel learned about the sexual attitudes of the 18th century and their connection between those of today. This in turn has led him to understand more about society. forcing him to 'relate all disciplines including English, psychology, sociology and history. Ending his lecture. Shinagel said that in his classes he \seeks to raise the question important to all learning and life. Namely, 'what, to you, is human nature?' All morals and attitudes relate to certain premises one holds on human nature.\ For Hebrew Students by RON ••ROCK\ AINES Four years ago I entered Union College. One of the first bits of information I received from upperclassmen was that the administration is on the students• side. This statement was supported by the deCision of the college to open up parietals and to admit girls to the Class Of 1974. A lot has happened since then, to sour my attitude on the admipistratiort. And · the final straw was broken last Tuesday. I and other concerned students of the Hebrew 10 course decided to investigate why· Hebrew II and 12 were dropped< and t(') see if we would be able to get the two courses reinstated for the winter and spring. terms. The members of Hebrew 10 were upset and angry before speaking to the Triumvirate (Martin, Enteman, and Lichterman), but after hav.ing the opportunity of conferring with all three, l was really impressed! I have never seen a bureaucracy run more true to form than the display put on by the above mentioned gentlemen. Each mart, upon being asked Whom to see in ·Order to rectify the situation, mereJy sl>rugged his should-ets. Then .. the same· r~spo~se • em~nated from the lips of the President, the Provost, and the Dean: \It's not my responsibility.\ I don't ever recall being more impressed by any performance than the con job that these three men gave to the Hebrew 10 class. Gentlemen, if none of you are willing to take the responsibility, I will take it. I will reinstate Hebrew 11 and 12 into the Union College program and retire, before I get cold feet from making so many difficult decisions. Now, we progress to the entertaining and exciting saga of being given the run-around by the friendly administration. Upon hearing of the cancellation of two courses I and 35 other students wen: planning to take over the next 2 semesters, about- ten i:>f us from the class journeyed to the administration building to make an appointment with the Provost. We caught Mr. · Enteman as he was walking out of his office. We asked him who we might see in order to bl'ing back Hebrew I 1 and 12. He said that it was impossible, that the budget had already been set. He mentioned that we should forget about the program for this year, and that we should lobby for the • 1 coutses to be included in next year'.s program. This was an answer that none of us could accept - next year is too late. The Provost commented, \It's not my responsibility. Go see Dean Lichterman.\ Enternan concluded by announcing that he was not part of the administration at the time of the decision. Being the naive soul that I am, I accepted the Provost's words at their face In his third year at Cornell, · Shinagel received an invitation to assume the chairmanship of the English Department at Union. Feeling the college had potential, he decided to come here in I 967. At the end of his first year here, the Comp. Ed. program was instituted. Asked to teach a course in Disputed Questions, Next in this series of lecture- discussions designed to ac4uaint the student to the professor as an academic-researcher, will be Profe·ssors Stephen Berk ( Histmy) and Edward Craig (Electrical Engineering). This will be held in the Hale House Student Lounge on November 2nd at 7:30 p.m., with all invited to attend. value and went off -to make an appointment for the class with the Dean. Enteman's statement that he had nothing to do with the Pollution Problems decis!on~making process, and that Dean Lichte1man held the key to the decision of dropping Hebrew II and 12, was fresh in our minds as we sat down to discuss the situation with the Dean. Lichterman mentioned that the decision was irrevocable. There was no money in the budget with which to fund the course. Continued from Page 2 passed, will allocate $1.15 billion for the improvement of the quality of the state's environment. It is significant that $650 million will go into sewage treatment. In other words, if this act is passed you will not become an \evil polluter\ every time you flush the toilet. If this Act is passed $ISO mi'llion will go to stop air pollution from municipal structures, $175 million will help communities recycle their solid waste, and another $175 million We continually asked him where that would leave the then 36, and now 40, . students in Hebrew to. Obviously, the Dean felt that he could brush us off by not really answering· that question. We wanted to know is earmarked for the acquisition how this decision was made. He of lands that could be lost told us that President Martin had forever. Basically, the entirit Act' Continued on Page I) . will cost the New York citizen . . • h ~ \ ·, ~ \ ~ • 'll . 1 J ._·! il 1,: 'II somewhere in the vtcmtty of $2.50 a year for thirty years ab(')ut $75. As one who feels no great fears about being able to breathe tomorrow, I still derive some confort from the fact that, for $2.50 a year, I don't have to get upset about it. As long as there are those fanatics we talked about and they have the money to take care ·Of what's wrong, none of us need feel the pressure. On November 7 allow those who wish to Worry for you the ability to act for you . I'm sure the Act will do well here; what Union student could turn down that first proposition?

4 CONCORDIENSIS, Friday, October 13, 1972 . . Minutes of -Steering Committee Meeting The meeting was convened in - Next on the agenda was the be present. Don Foley led the the lounge of Beta Theta Pi at ratification of five student cltrbs. discussion on the Cotnp. Ed. 9:15 p .. m. by President Tony who wished to have their report next. The motion was Faga. The agenda for the All- respective constitutions accepted made and passed , to approve College Senate was reviewed. . hy the · Steering Committee in Attachmevt 2 of the C. Ed. The matter concerning the order that the Student Tax report co.ncern:ing · freshmen procedure of elections was Committee could allot them their requirements. presented next. The question was money for the year. The The next item ·of l:>l!siness brought up as to whether the constitution of the . Water~Polo brol!ght up was the manner· of candidates runmng should Club was reviewed and the distribUting the minutes ~f the designate on the ballot which representative from, the 'club, Steering Committee meetings. committee they wish to represent Bruce Golc!berg, spoke briefly on An amendment - to. the or whether once elected,. they its behalf. After discussion, the · constitution was propos¢d and would be appointed to either the Steering Committee voted voted upon unanimously stating Committee on Committees or the unanimously to aceept the • that the mjnU:tes of the Steering . Discipline Committee. constitution the Water-Polo Club. Committee will a,ppear in the Discussion followed however; a It . was proposed that the issue of Concordiensis following moti9n was made and seconded remaining clu-bs and their the meeting. The purpose of this to table the discussion until the constitutions be reviewed at the amendment was to alleviate the next Steering Committee meeting next meetin:g when a problem. of having to distribute due to the filet that there were representative from each Would Contbmed. on Page 6 other important matters of T .ll s· k ;:;;:·:~~~!!~~;.'\ that still had I e r ri .·. ·. · p··. . ea. · S The next issue to be discussed The Union College Social Committee Wllt present an evening with Dm•e Mason and friends .next Saturday evening, 0l'tober 21, in intimate Memorial Chapel. Tickets are expected to go very .fast. Buy early and don't get shut out. concerned the part of the O R d en· Constitution of the Student .. ·n. •. . ·e·_·· .. ' . .·.· . . . . . -' . ·. ,·.n. , .a· .·· . Government regard·ing two . meetings. Don Foley made a motion to add a cia use reading that an official town meeting reqnires a quorum of 150 members of the/ student body. The motion was passed by a I 0-.1 by SCOTT REITER Last Monday night. Dt. Ross Terrill of the Harvard East Asian Research Center delivered a night politica( me~ti~gs; :others read noVels instead of politic<ll texts and even fall asleep in class for having stayed up late reading these novels. vote. ' Administration Members View Hebrew Program by ,MARCY KATE SCHWARTZ · lecture entitled \China:. A First- Hand Account.\ Author . of 800,000,000: The Real China, he has stated, \l do not thin:k the Chinese should be treated like men from Mars.\ Following this thought, he delivere<f a very human view of the Peoples' Republic of China and its leaders. Dr. Terrill had visited China in 1964, before the Cultural But Mao did not agree with her. He said that the political meetings were too dull; he 'couldn't gc; to them either. As for novels, he would read them, as well as Buddhist literature and even the Bible. And exams are nothing m.ore tltan the ambush .of students. Students enrolled in Hebrew~· 10 were very much annoyed on learning of the administrative; decision made last June to cancel' Hebrew II and Hebrew 12. ln attempt to discover and discuss· the reasoning behind this decision, cJass representatives have spoken to Dean of Faculty· Martin Lichterman, Provost. Willard Enteman. and President · Harold Martin. On October 9, directly after· finding out a bout the cancellations, some class· members went to speak with Provost Enteman. They wete informed that the pt;rson to see was Dean Lichterman. Accordingly.. an appointment was made for all interested class members to speak with Dean· Lichterman on October lO. About 15 Hebrew class· members appeared at Dean Licht~rman's and confronted the Dean with the following facts. First of all, Hebrew 10 with 40 · students is the largest beginning language course at Union College. (For instance, Chinese lO has about 15 students enrolled and Russian 10 has about 16 · students enrolled.) Secondly, many of the Hebrew students • have plans to continue their study of Hebrew. Thirdly, since Hebrew requires only one part-. time teacher, it entails only a minimal budget. And, finally, . two college committees which looked into the advantages of the • · continuation of Hebrew last year both recommended its 1 continuation. I Dean Lichterman had many : answers for the questions. At. one / point he stated that as far as today's world was concerned,j . ~ ussia.n and Chinese were inore Important . languages to know · than Hebrew. The Dean also J stated that it's nice hut not necessary to know Hebrew when ·j· one goes to Israel, for after all. most Israelis are bi-lingual. , Pinally, Dean Lichterman informed the students that he was not trying to pass the buck, but that he held nothing to do with the decision - that the decision had been made by President Martin - and that he had no idea why the Provost had sent us to him anyway. He advi§ed th~ .groJ,Jp ·to go see the president and/ or 'provost .. - Directly after this, four students went to make an appointment for the class with President Martin. The secretary said that no appointments were available in the near future but that they could wait and se~ the president in a few minutes. Revolution ~:~:nd again iri 1971, had no idea why Dean before President Nixon's historic Lichterman had sent them to him journey. Although he stated that anyway. now we tend to underestimate The provost didn't have to China's backwardness, he did worry about the president point out how much progress had kicking them out of his office. been made since his last visit. · They never got in to be kicked The thirty-four year-old aut, for while still sitting in the Australian indicated that the lounge, the president walked in. Cultural Revolution brought · · He stated that he flatly refos¢:(1 to . · gre(lt social progress to the discuss the subject, and that they . Chinese Peoples' Republic in. the should go see the provost or for.m of a new intellectual life Dean Licht~rman to discuss this. and an awareness of the world. matter anyway. Two great i:\llprovements have In o.ther words, the Hebrew been in the' fields of education controversy has been P!.!!!Sed and the theate,r;:' . from the provost to Dean On the subject of education, Lichterman, back to the provost Dr. Terrill relayed some of to the president, and back to th1 Chairman Mao Tse-tung's . provost and Dean Lichtermiu· wisdom on the subject. He again. conveyed the following anecdote: - -The president is the only one Early in· the Cultural of the three who was ·directly- Revolution, Mao's niece came to involved with· the ctecision to talk to. him. She complained of discontinue Hebrew II and 12 the · lack of discipline at the and he is the one who will nat University. She said that some Dr. Terrill also enumerated other improvements ~rought about by the Cultural Revolution.. The social atmosphere is now much more egalitarian. The position · of women and people of lower rank • has been greatly improved, as has the way in which foreigners are treated.· ln 1964 the people would never argue with · or oonttadict Dr. TerrilL Now they. feel more at ease with foreigners. This is also reflected in the way China looks at the world. China always feared encirclement of her land by American power in South and East Asia, which is less .of a worry ta the Chinese since the Vietnam fiasco. In the words of Mao: Washington-has picked up a stone to throw at Vietnam, which it will drop on. its own feet. Dr. Terrill showed how the' Chinese place a .great value on · their independence, having had ' Continued on. Page 6 speak at aiL And Dean students don't ·go to the .Sunday- Lichterman and Provost ~~~~~~~~~~~«~~~~~~~~~~~~~~· Enteman seem to be equally Festival Presents As the group waited in a lounge area to see the president, Provost Enteman came in. He . also stated that the decision to cancel Hebrew I I and Hebrew 12 had been at least partially the presidenfs. The provost also stated that the president better throw them out of his office. or he (the provost) was going back to the philosophy department.· After all, the president's job is fund raising, not dealing with students. Finally, Provost. Enteman said to go see Dean Lichterman ag'ainand that he uncomfortable with the matter. Each seems to feel that the other should be handling it. Meanwhile, Hebrew students are left with no one to talk to. JOHN MAYALL AMERICAN BUREAU . OF THE ARTS ·CHICAG Tuesday, Oct. 31 Wednesday, Nov. 1 8:00p.m. R. P.I. Armory also.DELBE·RT and GLE-N SUNDAY,OCTOBE:R 15;th $4 •. 00 Advance $5.00 day of show Concert Has Been Moved To Colonie Coliseum. Theat:re Route 9R- Latham, N.Y. ~ ~:; .. ALL SEATS RESERVED S4.00 $5.00 S5.50 $6.50 TICKETS A VA I LA ~LE: Advance Tickets on sale at J Dave's· Mens Shop 453 State St. · (downtown Schenectady) R.P.I. UNION ($6.50 se~Jts available here only) VAN CURLERS MtJSlC; ~ ....... ..,. •• APEX MtiSlC .OAR, LATHAM Van Curler's.Music Store .... Albany Music Sback in Troy Stereo Sound in_ Schenectady Apex Music Bar m Latham RPl.t1nion and Albany State Union .::'·., I) ·: il~ ~ 15. ;::1 '':! ~~ \ ! <¥. • On Sunday all Tic~ltets .S\· on sale only at CoUseuni Box Omce Open lit 1 p.m. ·i. . • J' c ~ a Sl fl ll f ( Sl p r] a' c u P' de g: \\ tc th u th 01 H th g< u St• CC re c riJ H se ne u te: re Wi (1. TJ U: .or 4:: ag JiJ tb he ca

the Ed. was Ed. · of the ing his .' i \' ·:{ f '\ t ' t' :r t:• '5. ~;-~r •::! , ·~ ~ 1;, 1. ~}· It: ii ~' ~~ .. - J •• Friday, October 13, 1972 5 Garnet Gridders To Rochester Frosh Gridders Seek Revenge The University· of Rochester joins Union in the ~earch for.' an~ · offense a!\ both aluBs cQrne mto Saturday's game At : Rochester having been blanked the preyious week. · The U of R, l-2, played give- away at Williams, coughing up seven fumbles and losing 3•0. 'At the same time, Union's wishbone was mostly wish as th~ Dutchmen, now J..;2, dropped a 16-0deeision to Alfred, , by BII.L Y DeBEAR Today, the freshman football team is.out for revenge. Stung by a close loss to Middlebmy a week ago, the freshmen traveled to Vermont for the second half of an unusual h~me-and-home series. If their own predictions are any illdication of their performance, the team should return with its first victory in Garnet ·Uniforms. While the two offenses have been ineffective, the defense for both clubs has been strong !l.nd to date each has yielded· only three to\].chdowns in th'ree outings. Roc)lester has been . receiving strong defensive performances from tackles Paul Caputo and Ray Kampff and end. Dennis · Hennig;:m while co-captain Bruce Craig leads an all veteran secondary. Photo by Les .Kernlin Sophomore ha!foack Ron · WestbrorJk, who missed Not much is known about the players ~t'hilt comprise this team, and it seems that for the time being, this condition will remain that way. First year coach Ken Michelson 1 was non-committal when asked to single out his best performers. ae feels that he has a solid team in which aU 39 members are equally important, and the facts seem to substantiate this claim. In its first outing, a stingy defense held Middlebury to 180 yards total offense; while the prolific Union offense netted Affred game with a sore knee, and is expected to play · agafl:i.st Rochester: Offensively the .Yellow Jackets feature the running of Tom Jarrett and Steve Hoffman, both averaging four yards a carry. Sophomore Rick Renzi will be at quarterback and will have highly regarded end Bill }Iammond as a principal tatget. Union's defense has been particularly tough against the run, allowing opponents an average of only 90 yards a game. Capt. Tom Anacker leads . that unit at linebacker with strong performance~ being turned i:n. by ';: ' . J ' '·;' \' • ' ~ 'l • • . -' tackle Don Rupsis and ends' Bill Spelman and Charlie Weeke~. .· Rupsis, S.pelman and linebacker Jack Siedlecki .played both ways in the Alfred game and' are expected to open both on offens~ and defense again vs. Rochester. · Joining Siedlecki at offensive -halfback will be sophomore Ron Westbrook, U nion's- leading rusher,, despite sittin~ out the Alfred game with a knee bruise. Sophomore Mik.e Deshler, whose · 67 . yard run was the Dutchman offensive highlight Saturday, will also see action at halfback. Dave Rearic; is . ex;pe~~ed to opeq. 51ct · Soccer Loses, 4~1' by STU A.l_WJRAMSON Union~s soccer team was defeated 4-1 in an injury filled game at Hamilton on Wednesday. Hamilton played a tough aggressive game, When they didn;t get the ball, they got a Union player, which· resulted in three Garnet starters temporarily out of the line-up. Early in the first half, Hamilton took the lead which they never relinquished, on a goal by outside left Jim Campell. Union goalie Jim Sletteland stopped a low hard shot but couldn't hold on to it. The rebound was kicked in by Campell who was po&itioned right in front of the goal. Hamilton struck again witb their second g<;~al a few minutes later. Union's lone tally came about IS minutes into the first half. Mark · Bvickley lifted a near Cross Country Top performances from newcomers will be requited if the Union College cross country team is to match the strength of recent years and those rookies Will get their first test Saturday (14th) as the Dutchmen open at Trinity in a 3:30p.m. meet. Only sophomore Jim Smith and junior Tim McCabe return from the top seven runners who last fall led Union to a t)-;2 season. New head coach Shatnil Uzuner will' be counting heavily un transfer Crawford Cutts, a 4:20 miler at Fordham two years ago, and freshmen Steve Jones, Jim Boyer, and Paul Spence. perfect corner kick towards the center of the Hamilton goal where it was headed in by his brother Neil. Har:nil;t.on seored one more in the first half and closed the SC~:?ring wi:~ Campell's second goal in the fmal period. · · The hooters' record now stands at one win against two losses. Sinee the season's opener against Rochester, the offense· hasn't been able to generate a potent attack - getting shut out by Williams and forcinN the Hamilton goalie to stop only nine shots. The two Halfbacks, Paul Martini .and Doug Moran, have been playing good soccer, while the defense has been led by Jtirtior Sandy Wilder who played his usual excellent game against Hamilton, Arca·de Electronlcs Why buy Sony when you can pay less for what seems to · be the same product? The • Sony Trinitron has better • reception than other color portables. !his would show · up mostly in marginal · • reception areas. Sony will receive color in areas where other sets will not even have a sei'Viceable reception. Sony is extremely reliable. S<)ny . warranties thei:r transistors for 5 years. We believe in Sony and therefore include a labor warranty· for a ·full year. We never see our · customers unhappy again. Corne see our entire line of stereo equipment · and televisions. · quarterl)ack and Al Albano will start at fullbac:J<, Junior Ken Grey will see his first action this fall coming off an injury and will play on the offensive line. Sophomore Lou Miller and Dave Kates will share split end duties. Saturday· will be the 67th meeting between Union and Rochester since 1889 with the Yellow Jackets holding a 37-25 series edge with four games ending in a tie. Rochester has defeated Union the past three seasons including 21-13 last fall at Sche~ectady. · Z97 yards of its own. · Michelson's offense operate out of the relatively new wishbone fol'mation, but he has not abandoned the pass in favor of tbis predominately rushing game. In fact, quarterbacks John Ball aid and lf any Adams combined for six completions in fourteen pass attempts, for a net yardage of 118, in the first contest. Coach Michelson is content with the league rule that stipulates that none of his performers may be elevated. to varsity status. Comer kick by Mark Brickley which resu/(ed in only Garnet goal in Wednesday's loss to Hamilton. 'New Opening' ------~-- .. Rosa· Restaurant & Pizza 1659 Van V rank en A :ve. Serving: Italian Dinners & Hot & Cold Submarine Sandwiches Could he eaten here, and alw taking orders to go. Phone no.· 370-5510. Come and trr it, I'm sure ~-----.-.------- ... ------- .... ·y.QU'Ulif(/''ii!'*\---- 0pen Sundays from 12•10 p.m., and everyday from U A.M.-II P.M., excludi11g Monday. JV' s 'In Win, 7-1 by FRANCESCO ET AL An incessant offense brilliantly comb'ined with a sturdy defense, booted Albany State back in the Stone Age 7-1. Led by offensive star John Denio, who scored two goals with less than four minutes gone in the game, the J .. V. booters turned out the highest $coring game in Cdach Scanlon's career here at Union. Dave Sanderson, Gary Levy and Paul Daniels added a goal each in the first half increasing the margin to 5-0. The second half of the game wasn't as good as the first as the Union boaters laxed a little. Mark Wood and Ralph Roumain added a goal each, the latter player turning an outstanding game. Albany's lone goal came on a penalty kick. Th\ls in only two games the defense has allowed one goal to be scored whiie the offense has scored 12 goals. Just for the record, ih the 197(} season a total of 10 goals were scored, while 15 were scored in 71. This year's success is a result of a great balan~d team effort. The goalies DeLuca and Burnstend haNe done a tremendous job. The tight defense led by Tim Fitzgerald and Lee Rimsky has kept many loose balls away from the goal line. The offensive line is filled with eager players Who will not miss the opportunity to score. So far 8 players have scored one goal, with Denio scoring 4. Coach Scanlon feels that he has a team this year but cannot tell how good it is yet, since 'the first game was played in sloppy weather and the second one against a disorganiZed team. The big test will come Tuesday when the team will travel to Oneonta to me~t there its toughest opposition yet. Med Wins by MITCH And so it was that Captains Jono Walker and Joe Kaknes gathered some 20 volunteer ruggers in the living room of Delta Phi for a pre-game warn- up last Saturday. The game was being played away against Albany Med and there Were barely enough cars to get everyone there. We later heard on the radio that all local' high school ·football games had been called off because of rain. Lincoln Park in Albany was to be the scene of the action. When we arrived, we all noticed th.e 5 inches of water on the field. Twenty seconds into the first half everybody was so muddy as to be. indistinguishable. The aesthetic quality of the game suffered due to the 1 weather, but the 'erocity of the contact was undiminished. Albany's size and experience finally decided the outcome as the beleaguered Union 15 lost by a 30-0 score. · tevrs Vnion has seven dual meets on the schedule this fall. and will tun home meets on the 5.6 lilile campus course • Proctor.'s Arcade Ph. 370-3680 . . . Dave's' Mens Shop 453 State St.- t'\\',..._..,..........,....,...........,....-.:-....,.__..,._.,........,...,_.....,.......,.. .... .._.,..~ ... ·\':;;;~ )..~dbwntown Schenectady)

6 CONCORDIENSJS,- Friday, Oct:ober /3, 1972 .Hebrew 10 Continued from Page 3 D . . . . II IVfS,fOO··- ' . come to the conclusion in late concluded that the Provost According to the chairman of June, that Hebrew did -not should not have made the the Economics De·par.tment, warrant any continuation of the statements he did, because they Ptof. McNamara,· the main program beyond Hebrew I o~ were not correct. Waiting for reason for the proposed change The .President, ·it seemed, was Martin, we ran across the was the \lack of great student looking for a way to scrap the Provost once again. We repeated interest\ in the Comp Ed program. He asked the Trust~es the story that Lichterman had program. However, after of the College for the funds w.tth _ give~ us to him .. The Provost was inquiring of many students which to pay the Hebrew surp.rised. He stated that around campus, I feel this is instructor. This broke ail Lichtermen was incorrect. He definitely not the case. Although precedel1ts, because the Trustees also stated that Martin s·hou1d it is true that many students are had given the .power to set the not see us, because the President dissatisfied with individual Comp budget to the P-resident, . The deals only with fund raising now. Ed courses, they view the Trustees told Martin that i! was Enteman left for a meeting program as a whole as being his decision. He made the choice. with the Dean, and told us that worthwhile and much more Dean Lichterman stated that he he would straighten out · the valuable than the distribution- had nothing to do with it, and it disGrepan~;ies between his ~nd type pmgram that Division 11 is wasn't his responsibility· Lichterman's versions: The . proposing before the Senate. Lichterman suggested that we see President spoke to us on the run. Although many professors Enteman. Upon walking out of He mentioned those now familiar realize that exposing someone to the Dean's office, we knew tha-t wo.rds: \It's not my a course is not necessarily a-n the administration wa.s putting responsibility.\ He told us (hat educational experience,. most of Continued fr!lftl Pat~ I one over on us. we ·should see Enteman. the Social Science Faoulty is in Thus. we decided to sec What a run..:around! favor of this .proposal, which President Martin. The Dean had even Pto[ Jonas stated' \would be . _ __;,~--Cut Along Dotted Line and Save For Hungry Time-----..-; more limiting than our present I \~ I Comp Eds. I :~-; ~- .; Save This MENU f .. • • • • • I · ·. ·. I Th History Department is I . . :' £ \\ , For Future Reference ·f sorr/ to announce thilt their . . K. . ' 0 o· K. I . . scheduled for Saturday . !_. K w I K.. . . . . i h:.\'\een \noolle~ i TAKE-OUT SHOP! I . · 1790 ALTAMONT AVENUE J · . , ,, (NEXT TO PUNKIN DONUTS) J I . ROTTERDAM, N.Y. tevrs • Dave's\ Mens Shop 453 State St. (downtown Schenec.tady) Terri·ll Continued from Page 4 their country chopped up by European imperialists in the lat¢ · 1800's. They are enamored with their present jndependence. This, says. Dr. Terrill, is the clue to their foreign policy. They regard the USA and the USSR on the same level: as wanting to contn:>l others. China will not be controlled by foreigners again. In total, Dr. Terrill presented a 'Picture of a China which is not to be greatly ·feared, . & country which has mac;le rtltJch social, though less economic, progress, But it is also a country of strong • .. traditions, especially in the countryside where the ancient ~ game of MahJongg is still played; ; and where respect -of ancestors is· still quite imp()~tant. ..... if.¥1f¥¥¥ Minutes Contimaedfrom Page 4 the minutes to ·every student maHbox within two <l'ay.s following a Steering Comrnitte_e meebing. The . meeting adjourned at 10:45 p~m. the next Steering Committee meeting is open to all who are interested and will be held October 16, 9:'15 p.m. in the B.eta lounge. For more information tall 301-&56,-5770 ICATIONS:2.2 cubic feet. 18 high, 19~ wide, 18\ deep • Free·zer compartment. 2: large ice cube trays. furnished with uni.t (wil 1 We'll Deliver our FAMOUS \KWIK-KOOK\ I : I DIAMO~IJ ENGAGEMENT , u B MARINES 1 & WEDDING Rl~<;s 1 MINI REFRIC U~LIMITED · I I S , . . , . l .1 ,IHlO <in 0 \'\''\\' in •If I \\'\'\-W\t H ighw•y o SO ile .21 0 • Belhes ... Md. 20014 I I · · ·· . . · . · • ' · , I . ~tyles at 5Cio/r· di'icount to 1 Enclosed is check or money order for s ---. Allow 10 days for delivery. 1 I I . t d t t rr· nd racult• Bu• I n_ Re.ntal Plan -'$55 & $20 refundable d,eposit {To_ tal $7_5 .a school year) l hold up to four.) • Noiseless • Trou.ble Free • 5·y,ear guarantee on comf)ressor ----------------~---------- I T·o YOU~ CAMPUS. JUST CALL rHEESE. -···· ........... . 95 I s u ens, sa • .a , :... .•· L..., - · direct from leading manufacturer 1 0 Sales Plan- S79.95 No shipping charges on either plan. I I I J s· 6 .. ,. •6 0 o· ~S~i\ ...... :::: .. :::::··:. : 1:.~~ J ~::a. :~~.:~2~~. ~:;,~· fr~~7::,,~ : ~::r:ss ~------------....,:_-----~--- J folder write: Hox 42, Fanwood. I City \ - r DGUBL E MIXED ·· · · · 1.79 J N . .J. 07023 I OUR MONEY-BACK .GUARANTEE-If this machine, is ':lDt exkactl6 ~s we I I Minimum Order J Subs Plus Sales Tax I 1----------------1 I stated, put it back into the shipping carton and ~en~ It uac .c. .. ~ou I o,o;,~, \' Ooly \' •~ om~ 1 m\'' be 100% \Hshed '' \\' money b\k. Th\ ~ • '\''Tty mach me I f ---------------• L\ •'low po;<e · I -------------- PUJi•dsabella :r ____ ;..,,;,_,_ ____________ !11 _______ -.---.-.-.-.- SUNSHINE PROMOTIONS PRESENTS IN CONCERT John Sebastian an exciting evening with John Sebastian and friends ~ plus Pure Prairie League 1 Show Only 7:30 Mon., Oct. 23 at the Palace Theatre i:n Albany ' ~. . .. ( ' \ \ -· OUTLETS Crystal Mansion Boutique (Troy & Saratoga) Film Sounds (Albany & Schenectady) Mail orders to: Palace Theatre. Box 287. Albanr 1'2\ . ?&~~ ~ f. \QJ PH.,.RMACY, INC. ;t Accuracy . -~ 527 Union St. § Schenectady _ N.Y. . ~ Ph. 37. 0-.2300 ~ WELCOME . § ~~!!/~j Interested in the Study of Law? A representative of the Washington University School of Law (St. Louis) will be on campus Monday, October Hi from 9 a.m. to Ii to talk to students planning to enter law school upon graduation, or thinking about it. Make appointments with Professor Daniels, Political Science Dept., SS2J6A. PROCTOR'S 1~1.~ STATE ST., SCHENECTADY Oct. 14-17 Further Perils of Laurel & Hardy Oct. 18-24 Fillmore Panic In Needle Park Oct. 25-31 Play it Again, Sam Last of the Red Hot Lovers Nov. 1-B Hammer Chato's Land Nov. 4 & 5 matinee only! Godzilla v. Smog Monster Nov. 8-15 Big Store Day at the Circus PURE WOOL Adam's Ribs by Beau Jeff A manly sleeveless pullover of 100% virgin wool. Its surface is sculptured with neat vertical ribs. Its neck scooped out for the latest look in men's knits. Host of hearty solid hues, Hand washable. fro-m $10.00 Dave's Squire Shop Tues, Thurs 'til. 9 iYN SCHENECTADY • r· } .-.) •} )

.\ } ) .) l --.) •} i) , ' ) ..... CONCORDIENSIS, Friday, October 13, 1972 7 Tlfere·will be .a m~eting of the Social Action Committ:e Menday, October 16 at 8:00 m H 11 manities_ 115: All . p~ople intevested in speerfiqally anh·w~r activities are urged to .attend .. Alr War Slide Show will be shown •. * * * * .. Festival of Nations to be held at H. V .c. Hudson Hall Sqnday October 29~ I to 9 p.m. There will be ethnic foods, exhibits and dances along with musi9 from the various nations. There will be three perfetmances at 3, 5,, and 7 p.m. Admission for adults IS LOO and 50 cents for students. * * *· * Appearing tonight at t~e Union College Coffee House m old Chapel at 8:3.0 will be John. Roberts and Tony Bar.tand, and Sue Bindelglass .. Admission is .50 and there will be fre7 coffee and donuts. . > --~·~, ' .· ~ ~>10:.': .* . * Anyone· ~.intere_s.tpsj. ·. -in· auditioniqg for tlte',chffeebouse, contact Jeff. .. · . ~~~ 370::.0911. * * * * Ev~ry Tuesday night at 7:00 p.m. in HU (H 8 there is a Christian Science . oi.'ganization meeting. Thl;: ·meetings will incl1ld¢' select<;;d te(ldings from the Bible, and discussion. All are welcome to attend. Saturday morning, Oct; 14, at 11:00 there is a free one heur lecture on Christian Science in Memorial Chapel. The. lecture is entitled \The Spiritmil Bas-is For Health\ and all are cordially invited. * * * * . Th~ security office, above the Rathsl<ellar, runs the campus Last and Found and presently has' a collection 'of eyeglasses, keys, rings and textbooks. All inquiries and items lost and found should be directed to the Security Office. * * * * Students or professors interested in taking lunches and/or dinners at .Sigma Phi beginning · next term, please ' contact ·Steve M:ills or Mike . Ginsburg as soon as possible. 346- 9225. with Donny O'K·eefe · and special Th R.. b .. ,. guest stars: e · .. asp . errleS One show only· 7:30 Tu.esday, Oct. 1 7 Tickets: OUTLETS ~450, soo, 5~ Crystal Mansion Boutique (Troy & Saratoga) Film Sounds (Albany & Schenectady) . Theatre Bo~ Offic~ BLITHER The Political F0rurn will meet on Wednesday, October 18th in HU 110 at 7:00 p.m. ~ Discussion will concern plans for forthcoming speakers, Mary Ann Krtipsak and Sen. James Buckley. All are welcome. . \' * * \' The first inter-collegiate game will be held tomorrow· (Saturday) vs. Wesleyan at 11:00 a.m. on Library Field. All are ·urged to attend to see rugby at its best. * '* \' * Folio wing are a few of the current needs for volunteers in our community. Nursery aide, first Wednesday ofevery month. 9:15 -11:30. )eginning sewhtg instructor, Monday or Tuesday, 3:30- 5. An individual to make minor repairs on toys,_ etc. for a day nursery. A sales clerk at a hospital. Recreational aide for a Saturday or weekday morning toy program for small children at a hospitaL Recreation leader for an adult g:roup in a hospital, I to 3 p.m. InstruCtor to teach basic cooking to children, Monday, Tuesday, or Thursday, 2:30 - 5 p.m. All .lesson materials and cooking supplies. furnished. Can you help? Please call the volunteer bureau of the Community Welfare Council, 6 Union Street, any weekday morning for an appointment, 372~3395. - Dave's. Mens Shop 453 State St. (downtown Schenectady). RESEARCH MATERIALS All Topics Se.nd for your desCT1pl1ve. up-to·date. · 1\28·page. mail order catalog of 2,300 quality research papers Enclose $1.00 to cover postage and handling .. RESEARCH UNLIMITED 519 GLENROCK AVE., SUITE 203._ LOS ANGELES, CALIF. 90024 (213) 477·8474 • 477-5493 \We rteed a local salesman\ Maurice B. Graubort & Sons · ' For three Generations ' St FOl n.onest =servi · · • And Good Jewelry people, Albany. 3. Social Hour *· ~* * * at various locations, ·community Would you like to be a Recreation· Albany. 4. Direct volunteer and wo-rk with young Services for clients. Who need one and elderly people? to one contact, Albany. CONTACT Eleanor Roosevelt * * * * Developmental Service, call 474- Tickets are now on sale for the 2872 and. ask for Carol Rhodes. . Oct. 21 Dave Mason concert, to ''HELP,. us provide ·Union students only. Being that alternatives to institutionalization seating is limited and a large Transportation wiU be provided. crowd is expected, students are Locations of group activities: urged to buy their tickets now. 1. Oswald D. Heck Memorial Off-campus sales begin on School, Schenectady. 2. C.P. Friday. Buy your tickets riow and Center for Multi handicapped 'ion't get shut o.ut. ................................... • • ! UNISEX I • • •- . Is ltrtr~duc-fng the ·• • Now Look. in • 1 Haw Cutting hy I 'I ERIC I ~~ l\ormerly of Kennem N.Y.Ce I • · H-tir by Jason of N.Y.C. I ·= • • Tues. & Wed. 1 ·to 5 • I . . By Appojntment Only FR 0-0411 I ••••••••••••••••••••••••••• ' •' .... ' .. . - ...... MARRIED COUPLES Part-Time Job Care for other people's children or homes while on vacation. Free room and board, work as you want. Mpst bave car, l child allowance. $100./week. Contact 355-8395 anytime, 2 Regina Dr ... Schenectady. GIRLS f-WHAT ARE YO~ 4) WAITING FOR. 'VE ARE HAVING A~ UNBELIEVABLE ·Clearance Sale 50% off EVERY :PIECE OF WEARING APPAREL IN STOCK. llul tk of _)ubfu 1630 Upper Union St. Phone: 3 72-9150 Plenty of Free Parking In Rear of Store rHA\f HE SOUGHT THE COUNSEL OF A SPECIALISTE ... WHO, FOR THE PRICE OF A 6-PACK OF SCHAEFER BEERE AFFOROED A WONDROUS METHOD TO MAKE ARCHES ONCE A KNIGHT RECEJVETH NEWS THAT FILLED HIS HEART WITH SUCH JOY ••• DISAPPEAR. aJ~~~~(!l:l3 . Schaefer Breweries, New York and Albany, N.Y., Baftimore, Md., Leh},9.~ Valley, Pa. ' \·

8 <;ONCORDIENSIS, Friday, O(:tober 13, 1972 When this 25-year-old researcher wanted to investigate a possible cancer treatment, we gave him the go-ahead. We also gave him the right to fail. At Kodak, it's not unusual for a 25,.,year-old like Jim Carroll to win the title of senior research physicist. Like any company involved in a lot of basic research, Kodak has felt the pressure of modern technology and the riee~ for young, fresh thinking, So we hire the best talent we possibly can, and then give them as much responsibility as they can han- dle. Whatever their age. , We have departments and divisions, like any company. What we don;t have are preconceived ideas about how an expert scientist's time should be spent. So when we received a request from the medical communi_ty for assista-pce irt ex- perimenting with lasers as a possible cancer treatment, we -turned to 25-year-old Jim Carroll, who is deep in laser tech- nology, and gave him the go~ahead. He built t'wo half-billion watt laser systems, one of which Kodak has donated to the National Institute of Health. The lasers proved unsuccessful in treating cancer, but we'd make the same decision all over.again. We entered laser technology because we have a stake in business. We let a young researcher help the medical community look for a means· of cancer treatment because we have a stake in the future of mankind. To put it another way; we're in business to make a profit. But in furthering our own needs, we have often fur~ theted society's. After ail, our business depends on our soci- ety. So we care what happens to it. Kodak More than a business. Vol. As l t: hostess, escorted one in tl the stage also in a order fo and pastJ I sippe settled i1 room lo< sitting a ·wandere4 friends. anythip.g left tore The li; dressed i shirt (tr' Tonight Berryma Throu Professo p.m., Jc UnionC The a1 To be e enjoyed Sa Ma Dave Chapel what's term's .for the Union Student picked u attendin_ immedia migbtse Maso1 fondly accompl now do own· ba1 behind recordec leaving was a :k toured ' splitting With E their Mason cutting 1970. His t Blue Tl listeni1 Togethe \Head1 mernoF-i' but the Mason: and UJ focus 01 albums natural sensitive promote feeling. Maso have b reviews, his live on whi1 was ta: lrouba• througl1 tunes, Song;• his compos Mason I

. .., . i . fountled at Union College. in .1877 .. Vol.10l; No .. 8· T~esday, October 17, 1972 Cabaret: Coffeehouse With· A Difference by J-UDY DEIN As I entered I was immediately greeted by the hostess, bedecked in a long dress and a smile. She · escorted me past the other tables towards an empty one in the center. Any seat would ha)/~ been £irte, the stage. could be seen from anywhere .. A waitress, also in a long skir>t,. stopped by to talk and take my order .for tea an<l a brownie. Cappuccino, coffee, and pastries were a:lso served free of charge. Laughter, moans, and lots of applause filled the room. \It \¥as as successful as we had hoped it would be, plus some.\ The evening's entertainment was sponsored by the Union College experimental theatre, a new division of the already existing Mountebank;s. It is headed by Harry Tipton and ca>lled the Cabaret. 20 cents I sippe4 my tea, which was served promptly, and settled myself t;qmf(lrtably. I 'had never seen the rool11 look this way before. It was filled with people sitting and talking around some tables. Others wandered from table to ~ble saying hi to their friends. The waitress returned to ask if I wanted anything else; After assuring her that I was fine, she left to refill so.mecrie's coffee cup. The lights dilll:med, the noise halted, and a man dressed in datk P-ants and vest with a white ruffled shirt (tres elegai1te) introduced the p~rformance. Tonight there would be a tribute to the poet John Althuugh it is set up similarly to the Coffeehouse, the Cabaret is quite different. You . find service there, as opposed to the self-service at the Coffeehouse. The perlorrtlers are not only students, but fac~;~Ity and administrators as well. Dance performances, readings,. plays, and Europ.ean folk songs are among the entertainment planned. The . first performance was free, but f1,1ture events will cost 50¢.. . Prof. Peck finished at around 9:30 p:m. The lights went on, and it took me a moment to realize that I was still in Union College, and l was still wearing mY dungarees, work shirt, and desert boots. For that .short while I bad' been away from the loud music and wailing folk songs often found on campus. I enjoy that too, but this was diffe.rent. This had, well ~ this had class. DIAMOND IN Tii'E ROUGH ON THURSDAY. As part of the crusade to pass rhe New York EnPir.onmental Bond Issue (Proposition One) this Novem.ber, Department of Environmental Conservation Commissioner Henrr Diamond (center. in hotnrims) is leading a people's bi£:rcie ride from Niagara Falls to Long Island. Berryman. . The purpose of the ride is to attract publicity for Proposition One, a bondproposal which will supply 1.15 billion dollars fur the enhancement of New York State's,envii'()nn'lent. Through the .reading. of sotne of his work by Profes~or Rob¢rt Peck, on Friday,. October 13 at 8 p.m., Jolin Berryman came alive in Arts 202 at Union College .. The audience's reaction was more than favorable. Harry Tipton said, \We have a certain intimacy here., an atmosphere that the Coffeehouse does not.\ Yes, they certainly do, and from the audience All staunch environment(l/ists, Tour de Union jocks, and normal people are invited to join Diamond Thursday morning as he peddles merrily up State Street from Schenel'lady Community College to Veterans' Park and then on tu Environmental Conser\'ation oj{ifes in Albany, To be exact they loved it. Prof. Peck obviously enjoyed himself reading some;; of the poet's writings. ~thank you. · The Union entourage will/eave from .the Payne (Main) Gate thit; Thursday morning. October 19, at 9:15 to join the ride. SatUrday Special: Mason In Concert Democratic Reforms· -... -- '·- . ,..\ . byTJM CAiN by ROBERT SHUGOLL Neil Kane wr.ote an article unshakeable feeling that Dave Mason will rock in t·he. guitar, and is $Upported by recently for Concotdiensis, an something was amiss wirh their Chapel Saturday night, playing pianist Mark Jordan, bassist article drawn from his experience political· party, the American what's considered to be the Lonnie Turner, and, on drums as a delegate to the Democratic political system, or American term's biggest concert. Tickets al1d conga, ••nr.\ Rick Jaeger Convention. The article was . society in general. Their own .for the 8:30 event are $3.25 for and Felix Falcon, respectively, ptinted in Concordy two weeks political party was the most Union ~tuden.ts, on sale at :There's a big question mark,· ago, so I realize it is hardly fresh logical and accessibk area for Student Activiti~s. If you haven't however, as to who will be in everyone's mind. reform, so the McGovern ... Fraser picked up tickets yet and plan on gigging with him at Union. In fact it is not fresh at all in Commission was created and attending, -you ought to do so On the hill with Mason are the minds of those who never charged with the responsibility of immediately as fhe performance black folk artists Jimmie and read the article_ but that is making the delegate selection migbtsell out. Vella who have just released their another problem altogether. My process more democratic and Mason, who's· probably most first record on the Atlantic label. purpose here is not to criticize more responsive to the actual fondly remembered for his On Mason's current tour, they've people who do,!1't read the paper; .constituency of the party. The accomplishments with Traffic, is been known to come out and that job is handled by other changes prescribed by . the now doing quite well with his play a few numbers with him. people on the Concordiensis staff commission are officially referred own band. He has three albums ·· g ' 4 whose responsibility it is to take to as ... Guidelines .. although they behind him ·including one P 4 ¥ 4 0 ...... _,.... ......- \\\ .....- ...... \ pen in hand every now and then functioned in many cases like recorded with Cass Elliot. After · The college clinic stHI !!iarids and heap paragraphs of scorn quotas - a word seldom uttered leaving Traffic, where Mason next to Old Gym Hall, but., the and ridicule on the Apathetic by good Democrats. The was· a key writer and singer, he infirmary has taken on a new Student. distinction between \quota\ and toured with Delaney and Bomiie, face. The policy of unlimited My purpose here is to talk \guideline\ is kind of fuzzy and splitting the lead guitar work visits at JIO charge has· been about the Democratic Party not always readily apparent to With Erlic Cla.pton. Following modified this year (assumelliy to reforms and the changes in the the casual observer, but it cart their \On Tour\ recording, prevent malingerers and to help. delegate selection process. Neil usually be -explained by those Mason started off,.. on his own, . defray costs). Each student is mentioned these reforms in his whO' benefitted tnost from those cutting his premier solo LP in now allowed five free visits pet article of two weeks ago. His guidelines ~ the McGovern 1970. term with each additional visit comments deserve some people. His two solQ records on the costing two .dQilars. Everyone is amplification here, as .ihe 'reforms D udng th·e primaries, Blue Thumb label are dynamite also allowed two overnight st~ys he discu.ssed have provoked Democratic Party leaders were listening p.ieces.. ••Atone at the infirmary without charge, m~;~ch debate in recent months. often forced to go out and look Together,'' and his rect:rtt release, except for meals. For any The debate and. discussion has for eligible Blacks, women, Latin \Headkee.per c.onjure up additional. night. stays, students come mainly from political Americans, and young people so memories of traffic at their best, ' will be charged _ seven dollars if commentators such as NBC's that their state;'s· delegation but they contain a distinctive a boarding student, eleven David Brinkley, who puts in over would c;ome closer to satisfying Mason sound. His son:gs are light dollars if not. Other than the new eight ho.uts a day looking at the \'Guidelines.\ In their frantic and u:p-tempo numbers which C()sts, the clinic is much the sam,e. American society with a efforts to comply with the focus on Mason's vocals. On the Nurses are still on duty 8 A.M. jaundiced eye; and Jack - guidelines, Democratic state albums he sounds incredibly . to l1 P.M. Monday through Newfield, a curly-haired, leaders were like movie natural and easygoing, and his F 'd nd 8 · AM 12 p M occasionally radical writer for t-he producers on the phone to · ri ay a . . • to · · • · . C sensitive lyrics and rhythm Saturday and Sunday. Doctor's Village Voice. entral Casting as they walked protnot~ a really optimistic hours are 10 to l2 A~M. on As the hist few Democrat1c around muttering things like: \I feeling. Monday and Friday; 9 to 1l delegates straggled out of need two PuertCJ Rican Women Mason's cross-country to.urs AM. · T d d Chicago after the 1968 for Humphrey ... I need two h . . • on ues ay an p· R' ave been recei-ved with rave WedQesday., and s: 3 o to lO:JO 00 convention, they left behind ·a uerto 1.can women for reviews, and we get a sample of Thursday. This new policy seems city still shuddering from Humphrey ... \ his live sound on \Headkeeper fairly reasonable; after all, who violence and turmoil in the The Village Voice's Newfield on which the entire second side can aff(lrd to be sick more than streets., a city that was to feel, in objects primarily to the fact that was taped from a gig at the five times a term? the mont·hs to come, the after- ordinary working class men have iroubador in LA. He runs b + + .+ + + + + + * + + .<' ~ffects. of a ~umultuous, been ignored by the Democratic throug.h some l<>vely, compelling • • 18 - • - • - - - - - • uproanous gathenng of the reformers and. excluded from the tunes, among them, \Just a ·p· l·e· ase ·P·atron··· ze representatives of the Democratic wl~ole deleg~te se~ectio,n ~rocess. Song;~ \World. in Changes,\ and · · Party, Brmkley vo1ced hts ohJectwns to his most well-known • . . The Democratic Party leaders the Democratic Party reforms composition, ••feelin' Alright?\ Our Advertisers left .that city with the Une'asy, during one of his essays on the Mason plays acC>uStic and ele~ttic evening news broadcast. He, like . Newfield, criticized the reforms because they seemed to arbitrarily ignort; certain groups of citizens. i.e., Poles, ltali!lns, ~nd other ethnic groups. In other words, Brink:ley (and Newfield to a certain extent), feels that certain groups of people have been arbitrarily and unjustifiably included at the expense of other groups. ln his essay, Brinkley asked rhetorically, \Why not Poles? Why not Italians'!\ Why did they pick the groups they did? The ansWer to Brinkley's question is fairly obvious, and he actually ,is probably awax:e of the rationale behind the Democratic Party reforms. The people whom the Democrats made a special effort to include are people who, in general, have historically been excluded as a group from active participation in the American political system. Blacks have traditionally been dealt with as a group by American society and have been short-changed. Women and young people have also historically been denied equal access to American political institutions. On the other hand, Americans of Polish descent have not suffered wholesale discrimination by American society, nor have they been excluded as a group ftorn the American political system. Joe CQ!ombo's protestations to the contrary notwithstanding, Italian-Americans have ·not been denied equal access to this , country's political institutions. The Democratic Party this year sought to include ·people who have been traditionally treated as a coherent group by American society, people who are viewed as belonging to a group. and people who have historically been excluded as a group from the American political system. Continued on Page 3

2· /. ,_. . · ·· fb the Edite>r: letters· To the E.li.tor: In respotigp Jo the~ a~icles uf Mr; Aines and Miss Sch:wartz let nte say that t·h~r~ sh~;~uld be ·no ~urprise . at the can~lla~ion of' :Hebrew · 1.1 and 12. The Editor-in .. ChieL .... , .................... ,(;\orge Bah1 News Editot ............................. .' •. nm Cain Associate Editor .......................... Matthew Swartz Managing EditQr!-> ........................ Rita Morandi Jim Rostenherg Features Editor ............... , ........... AI Reisch Sports Editor .......................... , .... Bruce Batchelder Photo Editors .............................. l.es Kernan ~lef'f Weilburr~ Businc.ss M;magcr. ................ ,, ..... Mike Hurley National Advertising ................... Stephen KeDy Suhsctiptions ................................ Mike Bern11teii1 fxccutive Ed:ilors ................. , ...... l)eter Bkkerman f .ouis S. Snitkoff RayFaugltt Bill Ericlison Jlm Srnitll Brian lewis CONCORVY STAFF Louis ·Barash P;ttiBoben Francesco Isgro Phyllis R. Edelman Gail Goodman Robert Sbug0ll Mark Mindel Mitch l.ubal't Stl.Ultt Abramson Andy Ri!!hman Scott Reiter . MalColm Snowden Nels()n Wei! Steven K~kauer Marty Sherman Woody Guther~ Bill West Ron Ai~es Phii Alcabes Tom Conley Dave Strpm Larry Wharton Don Hamerman Woody Lauer Billy DeBear Scott Burns ' fred Lucas Bob Sax John Polydouris David Wagenknecht Do you feel that you are beill:g ripped off by some of yout .fellow students? For all intents and purposes, you are if you go to a Film Hap. Of all the student entertainment organizations on campus (the Social Committee, WRUC, Concordy, ldal, Coffeehouse, Mountebanks, and Film Haps), only Film Haps is making a financial profit, one that gees into the pockets of the organization members. This is done by charging one dollar for every show. Fifty cents (the Stiin charged at such colleges : as Wesleyan and ·UMass) wau1d ·be -a more reasonable · admission fee, and there would be no profit for the members of Film Haps. This would necessitate a change in the operation of Film Haps: turning the organization into an<>ther student activity, financed initially by tbe Tax Committee and revenue from· each show, just as the Social Cornmitt~e operates. Since no. profit Would be involved, students \\I<JUld pay substantially· less for every show. · 'l:h~s~ people who 4_ol)ate .tllei.r !i:llle_ and .effort. ~to. sucb ·activities as the ~social Committee and the Coffeehouse,- not for profit .but only to help offer entertainment to the campus, resent tJ(te profit-making operation of Pilt:n Haps. Since an alternative to the present operation does exist, and since that alternative would pass savings onto all who patronize Film Haps, it is logical that · such .. an alternative should be implemented. This will mean a sacrifice for the few now involved in Film Haps, but why should they be the only student activity in a privileged position? I gsb Concordiellliis is pohlishcd C\\'ry T~L'l<day und Frid<!) during the schoo• year except. during examination and vacation pcri<1ds by the student body of Union C,ll!eg~. Sc}Jencctad~\ N.Y. Nati!m!ll _;JdV<\!rt\!'i~g .rcprcsctuativc, National Eauca(itina! Ad.vertising Service, lric:-rotlege\l\ublishcrs Representative. Nati1mul Educ-.uiomll ,Ad~.t;fJ~!ng-~~enj@<i.· $.1;\c,r'_N;:):;. <;.. Editorial Office. Old Qym. L)nion College. 1 1 ub(Wtiion ',v)ffil~;;7ltne :I~Vi·ish' W~rld Publicuiio.n•. 771 State Street. Schci!ectad~·· N.Y. 12307. 346-235o. En wed in the Scllenectady fYOSl .office as Second Class Mail Matttr.Stibscri(ltiun 20cents a copy.$8 a year delivered anJWhere in the United States. • De11dline for 1111 copy, which must he typed and dt!u.hlc-spaced. is 7 p.m. on Monday and Thursday at the (' oncor!ly oi'l'ic~. abo w ()ldChapeL Office telephone number is 370-6155, but ihe <!t'ficc is onl_y in ~Jse on Mondai and Tbursda)l ni~hls. For all editorial' ·mailers. call th¢ ·ecfitor.in-chier at 39'3· l640: tor informatic;m call Student Acthitics Qffic~ _at 370·61 IH, · Levrs DaYe's· Mens Shop 453 State St. 467 State StJ Quick Service ! j Xerox, effset pr. in ling, I to 10,000 ·.f copies, low rates for college'!· students, (3cr()Ss from .Mike's . . j 1 Quality food Dinner 4-8 p.m. Reasonable ·Prices ·RedFox I Charcoal Burgers 8-Midnighr Cold Sandwiches Jay Street ASK ABOUT THE \I l,(or 10 CLUB\ Further Perils of ·Laurel' & Hardy· Oct. 18.;24 Fillmore Pa.nic In Neeclle Park o·i:t~ 25-31 Play it Again, Sam Last ofthe lted Hot Lovers Nov.l-8 flammer Chab,.s Land Nov. 4& S:matinee only! Godzilla \V Smug Monster Nov. Il-lS Big Store Day at tile Circus I can't blame those who were. angered by their bouncing from .pillar to post on the Hebrew language issue, but I assure them To the J!:ditor; and the community that the A day or so before the article.s intent was not to dodge about the administrative ''con responsibility for an unpopular job\ appeared in your decision. I take full responsibility newspaper, I di$tdbuted a note for that decision. Since the to the people concerned. I:n that matter is now a public . one, I nate; l apologi;zed for the provide below some information administrative confusian which that ac.counts for my decision had 0 ccurted in the previous· two whether it makes the decision days. I shall not use~ your arty tnore palatable or 'not. v~rluaMe .space with rejoinders When the Hebrew course was and replies, but 1 should like to initiated, there was promise of use tbat unitappy 'Occasion to finaacial support for it from the make a few general p~;~ints. J;ewi-sh community in No organization is going to Schenectady and in the first year run sltl.oothly immediately after that support, though less than the· kind of reorganization >which enough to underwrite the Union ha~ .unqergone with · rn:y program completely., was appointment. Both stor-ies seem forthcoming. I wrote over eighty to ine to ~n:d just when they personal notes in the spring of rnigh~ be interesting. As the that year in an effort to get stories point out, I'was going tQ financial subsidy for continuance see Dean Lichtertn~n to attempt but received relatively little. The to · straighten out the College, however, assumed the adn1i'l1iStra.tive problems. I second year's cost, and 1 invited the people to come back thereupon asked the Committee then. If they had returne(,} an on Curricular Affairs to examine hour or so l&ter, they would bave the program j.n the light ef total fQl!:lid the a,(;hnini$trative problem curriculum, suggesting that for resolved, though I admit the bUdgetary and .educational story would have made less reasons the recommendation exciting copy, Now, if people are should he either to expand the going to have so little patience program at least to middle~level that they cannot wait .forty-eight courses (the assumption being hours fot the new administrative that it weuld replace something structure to set-tle in, then there else) or to phase it out. is, indeed, little hope. After study by a sub- if people who have requests, committee, the, CA,C recommendations, petition!), even recommended that the status quo demands, will write them out be maintained, and subsequently with the accornpanying reasons the College Senate sup.parted to recommend them, there will be that recommendation. Without less o p p ortu nit y for disrespect for either misunderstanding. Again, had recommendation, I had to dissent the request in this case been simply and solely because I had a written, . the administrative budget to balance· and keep in confusion would, not have balance anq, if there were · no occurred, though I concede the strong ~igns of the development story would not · .have been of a complete program, I had to newsworthy either. eliminate what could be It may help future eliminate(,}. (This was. not by any confrontations to start on a more means-the anly budget•cUt,. and it productive basis if I try to state was no more unpopular. than in general what m.y others.). , administrative procedure:..Wilf.:-J:?e In the Jlleantime Assistant for this year. In general, t seek a Dean Olton had talked with structlire which gives the those returning from the . term administrator closest to the abroad i~ I~t:'!el; a~ he reported.·_ tetfl.totf\ f!n9 mQst f~tp,.iliar -with that most who had taken the the details the greatest · latitude H:ebrew language course before possible in making decisions. I responsibility for tbi:s 4ecision falls directly en the shoulders of · President Mar.t~n. ThC?ugb .U~Q!l)s a v!ry small. cQHege, Dr .. Martl'n has sl!cceeded · in r'tnaini:ng aloof from the (:Oll~ge CQmltlunity as a whole. In illY four years here, I can recall no maj()f initiatives President Martin .has taken on behalf .of the student ·bci(}y., It is said that a modest man's successes often go unnoticed, The saying tnay be true, howev~r in this case it does not apply, The · cancelation of Hebrew has been considered sinc.e its inception three years ago. At least two fachlty committees have been ca:lled to discuss the future of the program an<:! ·both have given favorable recom- . . me·nd.atiotls. The fact that the program has :been supported in the past prinnuily by the contt;ibutions of the Schenectady Jewish community rather: than by college funds indicates the basic insensitivity of our Pr.esident to the pulse of our students. The .fact that Dt. Martin chose to go to the Trustees to request funds rather than write them into the budget himself is a slap. in the face· of all students who . chose Union hoping that in a small . school the interests of the individual would be served as well as the interests of th~ coll~ge community as a whole. Our president survives on the belief that time will heal all wounds. So, for the present he was withdrawn to a position of comfort and safety leaving wordly matters to the Provost. If this .matter of $ii~continuing, Hebrew points .up nothing. else, it has shown that Union College needs in its administration an administrator, not an ambivalent politician who !)roves himself to --~!:1~ a very, very small man in'terested primarily in his own well being. . Ricki Arons '73 B.LITHER. they went had found it valuable. shall attempt to create a structure . Attention All Big Brothers aJtd to them. Because we hoped to in which we all know overriding Sisters continue the Israel term, it thus College I?olicies; in which each . • ,TJ:te Big. -Sister/Big Brother seemed to me - and still seems administrator ·knows his or her progrartl's annual falf picnic will - a reasonable compromise to jurisdietion, and in which each be held on Sunday. October Z2 in provide instruction in the term administrator knows the ,limits of Jackson's Garden, beginning at preceding the Israel term,. and his or her budget. As long as 12 noon. 'There·· will b.e , a that is the decision I made. some decision'' is within the Halloween candy hunt as weU as .At the June m~eting of the administrator's jurisdiction, .picnic lunch, fun artd games for Board of T~ustees, the decision within the. administrator's budget- all, so be there at noon, Sunday! was questumed by SQme and does not violate College· * * \' \' merr.bers of the Academic Affairs Policy, the administrator ii1 The security office, above the Committee and brought to the question should make the Rathskellar, runs tile catnpus full Board for discussion. · I decision .. If someone thinks he. ·Lost and Found and presently explained at that time the should do somethin_g outside his has a collection of eyeglasses, reasoning behind that decision jurisdiction, outside 'his budget, keys,. rings and textbooks. All and others taken in order to or in viulation of College Policy, inquiries · and items lost and achieve a balanced budget this he is free to make a written found should he directed to the year. recommendation to me. I shall Security Office. · Of course a sound argument operate on two geneJ;alizations: · * * * \' can be made for a Hebtew (1) requests fc;.f < addition~~; This Friday, Oct. 20, the program, just as one can be made spending in 1972-1973 will not be Union College. Coffeehouse is for. a full Russian program (also approved; (2) decisions made by · proud to · pr,esent Boston cut back) or for many other · administrators within their recording artist, Bill Staines, activities, but the College bas.·'to jurisdiction, their b1,1dget, and along with Union's own, Hers)lel measure carefully what it can and College Policy will not· be · Raff. The Coffeehottse is at 8:30 what it cannot do, When overturned by ltl.e. p.m. in Old Chapel- admis.sion disputed choices are unavoidable, My goals can be stated neatly; is 50¢, coffee and doughnuts are l atn ultimately the one who has reality is net, of course, as neat. free. * * * * to .~ake them. There will be problems with I do have one suggestion to implementation, and some make that may preserve us all patience will help. The system I ~rom frustrations like the one . outline . is designed to keep mvolved here. If students or responsibility and authority as oth~~s who. want to chal~enge a closely allied as. possible, Our dects1on will take the hme to recently instituted Governance state their position in writing and Sructure runs counte.r to that ask in advance for a time to objective so there will always be discuss it, the awkwardness of slippage. The · system is not not fiFiding a. single spokesman designed to avoiti' responstbillty, free to talk wtth them, a~ter he but to locate it. It is not designed has had a c~ance to ~eliberate to dealy the process of deciSion- ~nd. ~onfer, wtll be avmded. The making, but to aid it. Since it is declSlon may or may not get the system I have decided to try change?, but ~t least no one w~ll to institute, no responsibility is feel he s gettmg a bureaucratic removed from my shoulders; 1 runaround. ~m r.esponsible for what comes Sincerely yours, out of the system. Harold C. Martin, 'WiUard F. Ente.man! President Acting Provost * * * * * * * * Anyone interested in performing at the Coffeehouse during the school year should contact Jeff . at 370-091 I. Especially if you would Iike to play in the fall term .Freebie, coming up soon. Purity Isabella s . ldl\. '?&~ \91 PHARMACY, INC. Accuracy 527 Union St. Schenectady N.Y. 'Ph. 370-2300 WELCOME UNION STUDENT$

\'\'\t of let ·no n· of Tne rs of' has as a I on i!i The In its At ure lll- dy by to . . · . · . \ . . · .. ~·vAn .· •• ' ' '•. '' ....... ' ''-\ •••. , .••• · •. •.' •• - \1 -\ ' . ~··~-- .. -~·---~· , ... ~ .• ·::;~;:;;-:-:::~.::;:. ... ~ •• 3 · C,()}J,CORIJIEN.SJS 'Iucsday\' Oct-Obrw\!:l~W'J.l- ·g., -~~:;~,- .. ;.,;:; . .,..::.r -- ·: ~ ~'\:·:< .. :;·:\\;'*::-;\t• ~. • • .,.,,.,. -' • , • • • . ___,_,.... •.• \. •· •• • ~ ·• .• , •• • ,.,. •••• =co-o'c\\\ ''- ·:\ • . . . . . . ' .. , . '. • :. -· . ..\ , . , ... , , . ·. . . .. . . .· . f. . . . The· foliti~af Forum Willl meet' B' . L'' I' T ... ' H'· ; E' R\' h. ·lF~r wanl_tyhon_t•het's yi~taer~esstteodur -dine. re;y~, ~!l_g P_n;oEg-_ ra~~si~: it!~~~~ 'R. e. . ' ·or· ·m. ·, ·s · dn ·w~nesday; October . 8th in • ·~ _.• •. · · . _ . ' . •. \ ... - . e ptng ... _ ~\' HU UO at 7;00 p.m. · ~ ..- •. ..• . . • . • • Uni<:in, tht;.re will be an successful year, PYE recycles · · · ·n · p·r n f r · · organizational meeting Thurs., abm:~t 2 tons. of paper a month Dtsouss 1 ?.0 WI concern a s ·o · There will be an important 19 7 00 h Ch' p· · i:rom. t-he ·Unl·.o. n campu·s,· tht's f h · kers Mary Ann · · Oct, · • , at : ·. at t e - l' st r .· . ort commg. spea · ' · · . · ·. .· meeting· for all st_ uqents who plan L d Th \'I d repr.esen·ts· ·34 .tre·es ·t\\at· won't K k and Sen James · o ge. · .· ose unav e. to atten . ,. · rup.s_ a · · ·. · y • · • · to be o_· Jl th¢ Sw.in1mirtg Team. d B b I 11 ha.ve t·o be cu·t down to· supp· ·Jy B kl All Wei ... me ·· shout contact o ngerso. · uc e_y .. · .. * ar··*e·. · * \o.:.. · th_ 1's. _ye· ar, o. n· . Tburs_d. ay·.· .. october · · · .. . . (346~9&29). paper. Recycling site captams. ape JRC Presents 19th at . 4:30 ~n the Block U * * * * still needed for p~rts of 'Adam Bromke Ro<; 1111 • Alumni· ;Gym. If you The· next session of the Davidson, South, North and the The International .· Relati~;ms cannot attend contact Coach Student-Faculty Btldge Club wili Science an~l Engineering Center; • Club ·of Unhm ' CO'ilege willc McMurray. * * * * be held on October 31 in the . if you <lould possibly help, P resen(its{irst lecttJreofthe year Hale H(mse Faculty Lounge at contact Tom Lundquist at Sigma . b 19 Ski Patrol is ·offering a Red p · 370 3617) c d 1 this Thursday night, Oeto er ·.· , 7:45 p.m. AU those interested are hi ·( ·· · - . · ·. . · an an· g ass at. 8:0() p· ,m .. in Old Cha•pel. The Cross First. Aid .course for welcome. The results of the last recycling at Union could become · a_·n_yone interested in taking first · ·f h · · · ;S_ p. e. aker ·will b_ e. P_ r_o_fess_ or. Ada._ m . . tournament are as follows: a reality. 1 enoug mterest ts U . aid. \the meeting. dates will be h c h ff t Bromke of C~trleton · · ntversity, . L Prof. Bacon-Pmf. Goodheart .s own 10r t e paper e or . Ottawa, Canada. · Profess-or discussed at a: Ski Patrol meeting 2. Bob La.vin-Mike Hshman * * * * Brom·ke Was born in Po'land in Wed., Oct. 18 • in SS 116 ·at 4 : 30 · 3. BobFeller~Mike Levinson Dr. Donald AxeLrod, 19.28 where he received his ear:ly All members .please a,ttend, and · * * * * chairman of the Department of education. -In the latter part of all interested in first ·aid are ATTENTION SENIORS! Public Administration at World War U he tookpart in the invited. * * * * Yearbook portraits will be taken SUNY A will discuss careers in :Polish Resistan<;e,. and in 1944 in the lower lounge of Hale the public service at 4:00 p.m., fought in tb.e Warsaw upti~ing. A c· f.£ House from Monday, Nov. 6, to October 25th, in the Faculty disting1.1ished academh:ian,. . .. 0 .· · .. e,e Friday, .Nov. 10. Sign up for Lounge of the Social Sciences Pr0fessor Btomke has taJ:Jght at your sitting at Student Activities Building. Professors Daniels, several . universities in Canada H' · ·. in Old (iym Hall. A $3. sitting Herman:, and Underwood will and the United States, and is a ·. ·. · O·USe Jee is required at the time the. join Professor Axelrod in a member of the Board ·Of Editors portrait is taken. To insure that question-and-answer session of the East Europe~n Quarterly. .· ~his Friday, Oct. . 20, . t~e .Y<>ur picture is in the yearbook following the Iatter•s presentation. His topic for this. Thursday night Umon College Coffee~ouse V.:tll sign up today. will he '\Eastern Europe .and the prest:Jnt . Boston recordmg; ....ar~1st * * * * Contined from Page 1 That's the rationale, anyway, behind the Democratic Party reforms. In actual practice, of course, being Black, young, or female is no guarantee of virtue or wisdom in all things. Correspondingly. the reforms did not guarantee that the Convention would be full <:if wise and virtuous people. The reforms did, however, enfranchise (in effect), large numbers of people who hitherto had only managed to gain a toehold in the two major parties in American politics today. For this the Democrats deserve praise. * * * * Ra.h! Rah! Rah! Organi:t;ational meeting for all those females interested in cheerleading for basketball. Wednesday night·at 7:30 in 313 North. If unable to make it and are interested, please call Ellen or Sandy at 370·0592. * * * * Problems of European Security.\· Bill. Stame~. Also on ~he btU With All activities .. and individuals The entire campus community is Stames will be Umon Colle~e are asked to limit posting of bills RESEARCH MATERIALS Frosh basketball players: cordially invited to attend, sophomore, Hershel Raff. and notices to designated areas, * * *' * Theshow starts at 8:30 in the Old (bulletin boards and bathroom Is your thumb sor-e from those Chapel. . . . . . . d~ors) of Fox and Davidson · long hours o~:~t on the highway? ln add:ttlo~ to . contempo:ar)' Houses. The taping of notic:s to No need to get hitchhikers and.folk ~ustc, Btll ad~s a I~ght painted wa.lls has damaged the thumb. Bt:ing y 0 ur traveling touc~ to htsprogram With a litt_Ie paint. troubles down to WRUC and Country and Western h~mor, .. m. t11rte in Wednesdayand Thursday the form of s~ngs hke . If tt------- .... ---~ * * * * nights at ten P.M. Teardrops Were Silver; Oh How -'Interested in the · * * * * I Would Shine.\ Rep.resentatives from law schools of Duke University ~nd Washington and Lee University will he on campus Thutsday, October 19th. Students should sign up on room SS 2\16A (Prof. Daniels' Office). * * * \' · ·,Fresl'unen' pre.,med · 'and pre- dental majors have a meeting on We.dnesday, October 18', at 7:30 in Butterfield 204. * * * It< Not to be· missed in the Study of Law? evening's show . is the Staines i A representative of the Concerto in E for Trumpet. . · Washington University Originally the piece was · School of Law (St. Louis) will performed by the Philadelphia be on campus M()nday, Ph.il0rg~nic Orchestra, but BiH · Oc:tober 16 from 9 a.m. to 12 will perform the entire piece solo. , to talk to students planning to S9 come to the Old 'Chapel · enter law school upon Friday night at 8:30 when for just grad:uatfon, ·or 'thinking ab_out SOc you· can see Bill Staines, · it. Make ~ppointments with Hershel Raff and James I Professor Daniels, Political Thurfostethagel, not to mention ' Science Dept., SS2l6A. the free coffee and donuts •. • I • ' . • : t • ... I I SUNSHINE PROMOTiONS • ' ••• - ' - •• & I. Dave's·Mens Shop · 453 State· St. (downtown Schenectady) PRESENTS IN CONCERT ----....----~. John Sebastian an ex'citing evening . . ' t <1!atialiet' s t •. . t ' 1st specializing t f ·P.r·.·IZ··e·. in hot dogs t with best hot f sauce in to-wn·f Physicals for basketball will be All Topics held on Thursday morning, Send. for your descriptive, up-to-date, October 26th at 9:30. Check with 128-page, mail order catalog of 2,300 coach Scartlon between now and quality· research papers. ·Enclose' · rvionday Oct. 23. $1.00 to cover postage antt handling., '•,. · ' * * * * RESEARCH UNLIMITED 519 GLENROCK AVE., SUITE 203 lOS ANGELES, CAliF. 90024 (213} 477-8474 .. 477·5493 \We ner!d a local salesman\ l LUIQI'S REST-AURANT SPEClt\liZING IN Italian· Amerf~ F'OtOd Schenect.dy Dl 6-9744 Enjoy Sizzling· Ste~ls a~d Chops Visit Our Cocktaff· Sal\ · BOULEVARD BOWL . 1315 Erie Blvd. 40 AMF BOWLING LANES 374-4171 Bowl for Health • I with Jolin S~basti~n and friends 1 _Hot Dogs · t f Serving BreakFast, t ~iiiii!iiiiiiii!iii;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;_iiiiiiiii:ii;;;;.;;iiiiiiiiii;;;;. iiiii. -~- .. ;;;;;;;;;;;;_;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;; . .__ iiiii_ ;;;;;;;;;;K:::il~ : o~=~hd:y~:n::k ! ro-a~~~i~i:~·i~~;rs. ·~ . ·~ . plus Pure Prairie League 7:30 1 Show Only Mon., Oct. 23 · at the Palace Theatre in Albany Tickets 5 4. 50 , ss .. oo, 5 5. 50 OUTLETS Crystal Mansion Boutique (Troy & Saratoga) FUm Sounds (Albany & S~henectady) Mail orders to: Pqlace Theatre, Box 287. A lhany • Mon.-Thurs. 6-J a.m. ·t. ·~·:.· Phone FR 4-5193 ~ Fri. & Sat. 6-4 a.m. t Sun~ay . 9•! a.m. ' SHIRTS......:.. PANTS- SKIRXS- DRESSES ·-~!.~~~h.!!- _I ~.·· COATS - SHEETS - BLANJ(ETS - DRAPES n SWEATERS - BLOUSES u Latest ·~ H~ll Stu~ent~.Rec:~ve l.~iscount ,.,J · s~ Track Tapes . J $399 ARCADE Tape Shop PROCTOR'S ARCADE Union College Da-vidson House Lounge ·Friday, October 20, 1972 noon to 8:30 p.m.

., .. , : I 4 Tuesday, October /7, 1972 Gridders In Rare Win Garnet So·cce:r . -' . ' •., . . . . by MARK W. MINDEL Powered by track star Rick Jaszc:z.ak's 93 yaTds on the ground and touchdown scampers by speedster Ron Westbrook and versatile Jack Siedlecki, Union College upset the University of Rochester 17-6 in the Yellow Jacket's Faver Stadium. Five year man Jaszczak, who r.ed- shirted last season, busted loose on a 43 yard hurst up the .middle to set up the final Union score and ice t·he victory. Jas?Czak, alternating at fullback with junior AI Albano, h;:d a strong Dutchmen running attack which grounded out 239 yards compared to a meager 47 rushing yards allowed by the stingy Union front line. Union o.pened up early capitalizing on the first .o:f ~even Roc.hester turnovers wh.en Charlie '\Boston\ Weekes sacked Yello~¥ Jacket quarterback ·John Adducci, who fumbled ~on the play. Taking over on the U of R 38, Dave Rearic moved the ball to the twenty, bui could get no further. Bo!:t Mitchell came in, and promptly I!Jced the hall through the uprights for a 41 yard field goal into a strong wind .. Mitchell's ensuing kick-off was fumbled and recovered by Union's Kinsey Weimer, on the· Rochester 28. This time Rearic mixed flve: plays to .move the ball into the endzone, the. clincher. a 4 yard run by Siedlecki. Mitchell's extra point mad~ it 10- 0. Late in the second yuarter, l Inion marche.d the hall to the Rugby by BtJFFALO The scene was Lihrary ricld and on it was the Union Rugby Cluh. hoping to avenge their last minute 3-0 defeat last year to Wesleyan. After coming off a 30-0 defeat last week. the team was looking forward to playing a more evenly matched squud. The outlook was bright as Union drew first blood. The .extra point was good and Union led 6-0. Wesleyan scored on a penalty kick and were l'hreatening when the first hald ended with the Gamet holding :\ slim h-.3 lead. Wesleyan added another penalty kick to knot the score and that \\as as close as the ( iarnet wouid he for the rest of the game. Wcskyan scored a tr~ and the ex.tra-point and the score -,tood ! 2-6 in f~1vor of the 'isitnrs. I his proved to he the I ina I score as the referee ended the game prematurely hecausc of heated tc'mpers. l'he game was hot tempered and sewral rights almost hrokl! nuL There were ~e\cral injuries. including a slight concussion to '>kip Singer. rhanks must he given to Delta Phi for the tJsc of their recreation room for the party. Rochester 38 yarqline but. turned. · the baH over on downs when Jbe Yellow Jackets turned back the. crucial fo\lrth down plunge: tosei. Again Adducci then powered Rochester to their only drive of the day, marching 62 y:.t.rds for · the scofe. The drive featured a 35 yard pass play which set up the eventual scoring pass-, from · Adducci to Hamond with just fifteen seconds remaining in the half. The kick failed, and Union led l0-6 at the half. The only score in the. Ia·st half was Westbrook's five yard scoot in the fourth. quarter set up by Jaszczak's bag carry. Mitchell's ·extra point closed the scoring. The game, which was marred by eleven total fumbles and eleven actual turnovers, was won statistically by Union. Union totalled 278 yards on 67 plays to Rochester's 220 yards on 74 plays, with both teams making 14 first· downs. · The Union pass defense, whiCh gave up its most yardage of the year, 173 yards on 14 completions, made. up for the gains .by picking off 4 Adducci aerials. Jerry Cuffey had tw.o interceptions, and Jack' Siedlc;:cki and· · Mike Raab one apiece. Individually, four running hacks totalled over 30 yards each, led by Jaszczak's 93 yards on 14 canies. Westbrook's 62 yarqs on· l:f runs, Sied1¢cki's 45 yards on 1:(} rushes, and .Aniario 's 32 yar:ds on 7, as Rearic and later Gary Lauver kept mostly on the ground, and stayed mostly with their fullbacks. Rearic was 4 for by ST:EW ABRAMSON Tying a Hobart re·c·ord by· scor.ing his ll th and 12th goab ·of the year, Dave Semon Jeq Hobart to a 4-2 win over Union on Saturday. . · Tbe rough game was, marked · by warnings to both teams for: unneces§a:ry roughness and u.nsportsmanl.ike conduct:.. Halfback Sandy Wilder and a Hobart p1;:tyer w~;:r(l ej,ected from ; the game and a Hollart player h~d to be helped from the field. Hobard led at halftime by ·a 3~ 0 score, taking advantage of a disorganized G~unet offen$e and several defensive .lapses, although the Garnet were.n't as out-pla,yed as· the .score indicates. · The men . in orange · wasted litHe time, scoring their first goal ·with only four minutes. gone in the first half, ori a . direct kick after a Union hand~baH, · The Bub Miuhe/1,. 11·ko kit:k~·tl thr kick, taken ·from· 25. yards, was · long(!st field ·goal· <4 his ctUW.>r headed in ~y Semqn. H~ came · against. Rochester.. hack 12 _mmutes lat.et w1th t~e 10 · \. · k.\ .· .. 39 . . . . . record tyl~g g~al, Wl~h an as.stst · . pass!no•· PIC Ing .Up ·· yards. front outstde nght Clarke· Hme. Garnet ha!jbad Doug Moran. w.ho scored both- goals in loss to Hobart Saturday. m the a1r. Th·.. · k · h b · u· · ·• · ·· 1· . . . . e qmc s ot eat . mon goa te . U~Jon, now 2~2,_ can look to a Tom \Spjdern Saca to the left through the Hobart defen~e and :wmmng ·record tf 1t can .~et past cornet ofthe net. • · l.et loose with. a hard· shot that R. P. I. Saturday at Alexander Th . th. d H . b t 1 . h. h bea.t th¢ Hobart goalie cleanly. Field, and win one gam.e from d. de . hlf. f\ 0 . ahralfgoa ' W IC . \th W\JJ\ . M\ddl b eH e t e Irs~ , ca:me at Freshman J<lhn Burnstend. t: 1 : er , 1 •afn:s .or . 1 · · ~ ·. ury. 39:3Q. Baca rnade .a finger tip who played irt the Union goal in The Engxne,er ~am.e, w~th kacko.ff save, but could not control t•he the secof_ld half, put itt i,l. fine at I :30, pr:omises to. he a btg rolling ball which was kicked effort, often· coining tip with the revenge match for the Dutchmen · t the net' · · big save. He allowed only one who _lost. last. year to R.P.L for m ~xcept f~r a few plays set up goal, on a direct kick from just the first time m twleve years. by. Garnet halfback Dol,lg outside of the penalty are~t. His X~Countfy Wins ·Moran, Union•s first half play vision was blocked · })y Gamet was characterized by poor defenders in front of·him and the passing, few shots on goal and kick Went high into the net for low spirits. The second half saw the last score of the aftemoon. Union reverse these trends and Union missed a. chance to cut by M~N~~B . Hamlin, they could give· play aggressive soccer- beating the deficit to one :when a penaity Led hy freshman Steve Jones Middlebury a run for their Hobart to the -ball, and passing kick was missed late in the game. I rom Saratoga High, the Union money. and shooting well. With three starters· out due to College· Cross•Country team Perhaps the finest performance injuries, Union must continue the swept to a 21·36 victory over J v s 0. c c e r of the day was turned ·in by play that was their: trademark in rrinity in the first contest for the · · · · .... ' · · . • . • Moran. He played consistently the second hal{ of the. Hobart young and previously untested by FRANCESCO et al. . well throughout the entire game . game if they are to win. harriers. Jones took first place in h 1 . · b. t 'and' he sc.oted both Union goals.· 1 Scoring ·twelve goals in ten h h ld S d . The J. V. noo ·ers un ea en H If h h h d · · t 1 · · If b t e meet, e atur ay m t k b\\ t. ·t ·k h th . a· way, t roug t e secon games Is po unusua 10 Itse · ut H. l' d ·C' . .. . d . , . s rea may \ a s a e w en ey h If M 'k B . kl h th t t. th t H b I ctrt or • onnect1cut ttme m a t . 1 th\· ft . t 0 .. .t a , ar nc ey got t e . e ac a o art was on y . . . · rave Is a ernoon o neon a h If h ' hnsk 25 mmutes, 36 seconds. · . . . · ;\ · . . . . . , . . chance t@ show off his skill at · a way t rough the season Jones was followed to the tape' toTfahce ttts sthfest ? 1 Pr pobstttonl}e~. . taking corner kicks. Moran beat shows what kind of soccer Semin . . . T\ e earn w1 · e p aymg d th t f h H b hv semor co-captam tm \th th 1 . · J h the scrambling Hobart ,goalie to an • e res o t e o art team· McCabe, who placed second, Wl out e goa te 0 . n the ball and headed Brickley's have been playing . sophomore Jim. Smith, who Burnstend,_ who ~a~ ~e~n ~~-ed kick into the net for the first The Garnet hope to end their finis.hed fourth, and. junior ~t to v~dmty, ~n u a~ . . 1 ~ Garnet ·score.- three game tosing streak against ;transfer Crawford Cutts who ran. d 1 ~geraSt ~ 0 , was mJu: 1 \ With about ten minutes left in Capital District rival's Albany '.~>ixrh. Cutts. who came to Union unng a ur ay s game agams · the game, Maran ·dribbled State and RPI this week. . . F .dh .. , h h Albany. 11om: ~r am;. IS t e ot er co- John Denio and Paul r ........... _..,_ .... _.....,....,._., ......... _ ...... ..,....,.... .. _,..__.....,.. ................ _, captam lor the sttuad. . . . . Union's next meet is here at Anderson, who have. scored .4 · . . . . . , and 2 goals respectavely, wtH home. W ednesdav versus a tough h f 11 1 d th D t h ' Middlebury squa'd. If Union can ope u Y ea · e · u c mens team to victory. get simi·Jar performances from .Innes. McCabe, and Smith, along with improvement from Cutts and firth man Greg Jay Billiards Lounge PLAY POOL-. RELAX Daily 10-9 p.m. Sat, 10-9 p.m. Sun. 2 p.m.-8 p.m. Arcad.e Electronics Why buy Sony when you can pay less for What seems to • be the same pr~duct? The Sony Trinitron has better reception than other color portables. This would show up'· mostly in marginal GIRLS f WHAT ARE YOU • WAI'TI~G FOR? WE ARE HAVING AN UNBEUEVABLE Clearance $ale ~,e's· Mens Shop 453 State St. (downtown Schenectady) J,OOO rinR selections in all • 1\t Jles at sor;r d io;c I)UOt I 0 students. staff. and facult,~. Ba1~ ·direct from leading tnanufuclurer . and SAVI:! 1 /t tarat $179, 1 4 carat onh $29 1 ). For fret' wlor ' folder wr\ite: Ho'l: 42, Fanwood, ;\i •• L 07023 . reception · areas. Sony will receive color in areas where other sets will not even have a serviceable reception. Sony is extremely reliable. Sony warranties the·ir ·transistors for 5 years. We believe in Sony and therefore include a labor warranty for a ' full yeilf. We never see our EVERY . PIECE OF WEARING APPAREL IN STOCK. .. n' FOR LIQUOR & WINE Try JA~E LIPSTEIN'S 464\ State Street FR 4-1888 f customers unhappy again . Come see our entire hne of stereo equipment and 11ultk nf 3ullta 1630 Upper Union St. Phone: 372-9150 Plemy of Free Parking In Rear of Store I televisions. ·.··Proctor's A rc.ade I Ph. 370-3680 1--------------------------------------------~ by Th their even prod Bro'A Colle \T corr recta rigid] It co two (se,:e the r that auth~ child the guan priso chas1 namt phys mids with guan Brig to b guar. hom dehu Tr COmj in t~ the final m syml com] light artifi typic preci activ wasl drill, undr Tl marl gave and line pris< Fi Five fhe' w Fi Five the' And cho< \cro A: the l and the l a pr does Up, remi not

founded at Union College in 1877 . . . Vol. 102, No. _9 friday, October 20, 1'972 20 cents McGovern Benefit Concerts Vetoed By Administration Photo by Les K~man ~~a- · · , p- · - d ·t· .· r1g · _ro uc 10n . ' ·Is Powerful by PROFESSOR . MICHAEL SHINAGEL The Mountebanks opened their 1972-73 season on Thursday evening with a · powerful production·· of Kenneth H. Brown's ··The Brig\ in the Union College Fieldhouse. Corps claims to make men.· n'ot ··maggots.\ Towards the end of the play we get fleeting glimpses of the guards as \human beings, when they whisper of sexual longings or telephone a wife. The audience is left with the feeling that the Brig victimizes both the guards · and the prisoners, that the enemy is not a foreign power but a fault within the system. that rna n'.s inhumanity to man is not limited to war put is encoul'aged by mindless and sadistic institutions in our mirit~ry. In short, the v'illain of the play is the menacing metaphor of the Brig and aH it represents. The Mountebanks are to be commended for initiating their new season on such a strong note: By staging the production m the appropriately spare and Continued on Page 3 by TIM CAIN The College Administration has denied the request of the McGovern campaign on campus to rent or lease campus facilities for fund-ra.ising purposes. The decision of the Administration is based primarily on an oral legal opinion rendered by the college lawver a week ago Friday. The students for McGoYern here at Union originally planned to ho:ld either a coffeehouse in Old Chapel or a concert in Memorial Chapel, or possibly both, the proceeds from which would go to the McGovern campaign. According to Peter Bickerman, associate campus coordin~tor for the· McGo'vern campaign, the McGovern people were w.illing to .rent the facilities hoping that they could thereby avoid any complications invoh·ing the · College's status as a tax-exempt institution. \We are perfectly willing to pay for the facilities,\ Dickerman said. ··We're not asking the College to give us anything.\ However. Dick Robe,rts of the College's law firm. told Administra-tion officials th<lt a coffeehouse or concert designed to raise money for the McGovern campaign would jeopardite the. College's tax-exempt status if College facilities wer.e used for ~uch ·purposes. Roberts's opinkm of last Friday was oral. not written, so students in the campus McGovern campaign were '\under the impression\ that a formal written opinion would be \Tiie - · Briif. · is . - a · m Hitary correctional institution. recuingplar · in structure and rigidly regimented in operation. It contains guards (a warden and two a:,;;;istants) and prisoners {se\;en Marin<:: malefactors), and the relationship between them is that of master-slave or, at times, authoritarian parent and: helpless child. The prisoners must address the gu11rds · as ··sir\ while the guards contemptuously treat the prisoners· as \kiddies\ and chastise them verbally with names rike .. maggot\ and physically with blows in the midsection, both with_ fists and with billyclubs. Although the guards sarcastically refer to the Brig as their \house it is dear to both the prisoners and the guards that this house is not a Steering Committee Minutes home for either of them; it is a The minutes of the Steering Committee of October 16, 1972: . dehumanized limbo. The meeting was convened in the lounge of the ~eta Theta P1 The action of the play house at 9:15 P.M. by President Tony Faga. The motion was made comprises a complete waking day to accept the minutes of the last meeting. It was seconde~ and in the Brig, from four o'clock in voted upon unanimously. The Steering Committee next revtewed the morning until the prisoners the constitutions of three clubs. David Heilberg and Chuck Sahatt finally are permitted to fall asleep spoke on behalf of the Political Forum. Upon the termin~tion t~f in the evening. The . play discussion, a motion was made and seconded to ratlly thts symbolica:l.iy'\(~pe~. ~l!O>tlo~es in · . constitution .. It was passed unanimously. The Fall Lacrosse Club complete darkness, ana tl'le _ OrganizatiQn was reviewed next. Stan White was pn::s.ent to answer lighting · inside ·_the t Brig i-s any que,stions from the Steering Cqmmittee. The mot1on was made. &rtificial and bare. During this to ratify its constitution, 1-t_ was passed 7-2. The members present @f typical day we witness the the Sky Life Flying Cl~:~b me. withdrew their constitution due to precisely performed mechanical disagreement on it within the club itself. activities of the Brig: dressing. Pat Wardell led .the discussion on· forming a committee to deal washing, cleanup, inspection, with the housing problem. He made a motion to establish an Ad drill, frisking, letter writing, Hoc com~ittee whose purpose would be to review the housing undressing. problems (mail, food) and to study the feasibility -of giving The Brig 'is laid out like a maze fraternity presidents Resident Advisor status. The motion was marked -off with white lines and seconded. and passed unanimously. governed by rigid rules of order Don Foley then made the motion to have this Ad Hoc committee ano decorum. To cross a white consist of a fraternity member and.a male and female independent. line involves a ritual between The motion was seconded and passed 6-3. Following this, the prisoner- and guard: Steering Committee appotnted Don DeCesare. Woody Lauer. and Five: Sir, Prisoner Number Peggy Rundell to the Ad Hoc committee. Five requests permission to cross Bruce Sostek made a motion to accept Mrs. Marra's proposal. the white line sir. reading, \'A II tax-supported activities and l. F.C. activities must Warden: I can't hear you. ..r;egister all campus functions at least one week prior to the event Five: Sir, Prisoner Number with Mrs. Marra in the Student Activities Office, Old Gym Hall. Five requests permission to cross There have been many conflicts in the past. This system should the white line, sir. resolve our schedule problems.\ The motion was seconded and And so it goes until .the Warden passed unanimously. chooses to .grant permission to Bruce Sostek brought up the problem concerning the elimination .. cross.\ of Hebrew II and 12. He made a proposal that this matter be put As long as the prisoners and on the agenda of the All-College Senate and that the President of the guards accept this brutalizing the Steering Committee should express, at this meeting, the concern and dehumanizing rdationship and sentiments of the student body about having Hebrew II and 12 the Brig tuns efficiently. But once reinstated. a prisoner challenges the rules, as A motion was made and seconded to adjourn. The meeting does Number Six when he cracks ended at 10:30 P.M. There will be an Open Hearing on October 23 up, the Brig is threatened b)' the at 9:15 P.M. in Hu. 113. The members of the Steering Committee reminder that human beings ate will be present to answer questions from any member of the college not numbers and that the Marine community. ' offered on Monday or Tuesday 1 This opmwn, in the form of a of this week. They were waiting letter from the College's lawyer for this opinion. said Bickcrman ... was mailed yeslerday,\ ··so that the. legal basis for the . according to Dean Malloy. College's decision would be Hickcrman characterited the <nailable to the McGovern legal delay as \politically motivated. at counseL\ Bickerman .said that the 1 t · t \ H 1· ·e·l· that the eas m par .. e e .. s ·. . · legal explanation offered by the delay may be just a .. legalistic Administration was .. rather smokescreen\ designed to \ague, and tenuous grounds for prc\cnt any substantial prohibiting the benefit concerts.\ McGovern fund-raising activities -The McGovern pcopk wen: on campus. Dean Malloy denies hoping to appeal the anv intentional delay. and feels Administration decision through th<~t opinion rendered by the legal maneuvering •of ·their own. They could only do this, they C(}llege lawyer last Friday is insisted, if the Col1ege produced clear, correct in substance and a formal. written, ·legal opinion. unlikely to change significantly. · \Ch. T . d \ S - 1na o . ay . een In Visitor's Slides by PHYLLIS EDELMAN On Tuesday, October 17th, in Old Chape I. the Chinese Language Club and the Comparative Communist Studies Program sponsored ··A Look at China Today.'' pFescnted hy Christine Fran.k. a Ch-i,ncse language student and interpreter- trainee at the United Nations. Having studied Chinese at Barnard College and Columbia and Seton Hai!Uni\ersities. Miss Frank made her \·isit to the Peoples· Republic of China in th~: spring of this year with Aillcrican gr.aquate students and faculty. all members of the Committee of Omcerncd Asian Scholars. Travel expenses were paid for h~ the Chinese government. The tour began in Canton. Miss Frank showed slide' depicting factories. children at school. and families at home and at work. , The group then went to Shangchao t:ity in Hunan PrO\ ince. hom there a trip to Mao Tse-tung'.s birthplace, H slaoshan. a village ~out hwe:;t of Shangchao. was taken. Scenes of students at the Hsiaoshan Normal School that Mao attended showed them practicing the Martial Arts. Next stop was Wuhan on the Yangtte River. where the group stayed with students at Wuhan University. From Wuhan the group took a train to Anyan in the county of Linchen. lt was in Linchen county that Miss Frank and other members of her group stayed at a commune. Communes are organized into 'maller groups. or brigades. which in turn ar.c organized into still smaller gtoups called teams. Miss Frank stayed at the ··Big Vegetable Garden\ Brigade. living ·in a peasant's home and working in the fields with the peasant~. The family Mis~ Frank lived with encompassed three generations; in rural areas the elderly are taken care of by their families as \there are no homes for the aged there.\ It was this experience that Miss Frank described as ··making the deepest impression on me.\ From Anyan, the group took a train to Peking, and from there another train to Northeast China (Manchuria). The group visitt:d a transformer factory in Shunyang City. In the factories men and women work alongside each other. There were facilities for ping-pong. tennis. and basketball alongside the factory. l\he CC/\S group lived in factory dorms and worked in the factory. fhe group returned to Peking lor nine days, during which time -thev met with Premier Chou En- lui.\ Accof'ding to Miss Frank. \Puking is jw;~ _a magniJiccnt c.ity.\ This was illustrated to us With slides of the Peking Gates, the Great Wall. and the Imperial Palace. Miss Frank said she was \impressed with what China had done. not only lrom a material aspect ol life. The people find meaning in whatever they're doing. This is not to give the impression China is a Utopia.\ For e,\ample. ··v.hile women have made tremendous achievements, working beside men in factories and in professions like electrical engineering. there are still aspects of prejudice. Jobs traditionally held hy women, such as those in day care centers. arc still being held hy women.\ Ending her program ot slides ; and commentary, Miss Frank said, \Generally speaking. it was 4uite a memorable trip and quite an educational experience.\ To those of us watching and listening to Miss Frank's 'presentation a similar impression 'was made. . .,.. ... ~---~ ... ~ ......... ~~ There are still a few tickets /e.ft tor the Da\'e Mason conrert tomorrow (Saturday) night. n1e show is at 8:30 in ,\,[ enwrial Chapel, >lith 1 ickets going ur1 sale at the door at 7 p,m.

2 CONCORD!ENSIS, Friday, October 20, 1972-. CONCORDIENSIS roundecht Union Collelt in 1877 _ Editor-in-Chief ............................ Geor.ge Bain News Editor ................................. Tim Cain Associate Editor ......................... Matthew Swartz Managing Editor)! ........................ Rita Morandi Jim Rost.enberg h:atun:)t Fditor ......... , ................... AI Reisch Sports Editor ................................ Bruce Batchelder Photo Editors ................................ Les Kernan .Jeff Weilburg Hu),-i nc~s M anagcr ........................ Mike HurleJ \ational Advertising ................... Stephen Kelly Suhsqiptiom ............................... Mike Bernstein l·.xecuti\t: l:ditors ................. , ...... Peter Bickerman Louis S. Snitkoff Ray Faught Bill Erichson Jim Smith Brian Lewis Stuart AbFamson Andy Richman Scott Reiter Malcolm Snowden Nelson Wei! Larry Wharton Billy DeBear Scott Burns CONCORDV STAFF Louis Barash Pat Bohen Mitch Lubart SteVen Krakauer Marty Sherman Woody Gutherz Tom Conley Oo.n Hamerman Fred Lucas Bob Sax Francesco Isgro Pltylli.~ R. Edelman Gail Goodman Robert Shugoll Mark Mindel Bill West Ron Aines Phil Alcabes Dave Strom Woody Lauer John Polydouris David Wagenknecht Time Conflict The Steering Committee is to be congratulated on its motion requiring all campus activities to register their functions at the Student Activities Office at least one week prior to the event. It has always been unwise to schedule more than one event for any given night and leave the following night devoid of entertainment. An incident that comes to mind is the scheduling of the initial \Cabaret\ -o·n a Friday night, the evening traditionally used by the Union College Coffeehouse. All that the following Saturday and Sunday nights offered were Film Haps. In the interest of the best entertainment bargain possible for the campus, .. perhaps \Cabaret\ should plan its future performances for a night other than Fridays when the Coffeehouse is in -operation. We have heard too many complaints in the past about dead weekends at UC::ol to· havt: ·such- conflfcts continue credit must go to the Steering Committee for its action. gsb Letters To the Editor: I feel that the housing situation which exists as a result of an overcrowded Freshmen class has heen handled very poorly. During the summer, rna ny Freshmen , and some upperclassmen were notified that there would he five men living in a suite that was intended for four people. This situation i~ inadequate in terms of living comfort for all five and the health and performance of the man in the living room. A living room in a college dormitory is no place for a person to sleep on a regular basis. It is intended to be a place for entertaining and sociali.?:ing. two secondary hut important aspects of college life. As a direct result of this, the fifth man loses sleep, an all-important function that many of us find very hard to come by as it is. Needless to say, this may result in lower grades and poor health. I think everyone will agree that this situation is most undesrirable. When the Department found Housing there were· excess Freshmen coming this year they should have immediately begun to look for huilding(s), on or off campus, to convert into dormitory(s). If no buildings could be found, the Housing Department should have found nearby apartments for upperclassmen. and in doing so opened space in the existing dorms for the extra Frosh. The basic problem does not lie in the Housing Department, but rather in the admission's policy of last spring. One of two circumstances brought about our problem: either (I) The Admissions Department grossly miscalculated the number of Freshmen that would accept their invitation, or (2) Someone purposely told them (the Admissions Department) to bring in more Frosh than present dormitory facilities could handle. Whichever is the case, special efforts must be taken to insure that the situation does not occur next year. Sincerely yours, Woody Lau~! __ _ Concordiensis is published every Tucsdny and l·rida~ durihg the school year except during examination and vacation periods b) the student body nf Union College. Schenectady. N.Y. National <td>erlising reprcsentathe. !\<atiorwl Educational Advertising Service. Inc. College Puillishen Representative, National Educational Advertising Senicc. Inc .. !':.\'.C Editorial Office, Old Gym. Union College. Publication Office. The Jewish World Publications. 771 State Street. Schenectady. N.Y. 12307. 346-2356 Entered in the Schenectady rost office m; Second Class Mail Matter. Subscription 20 cents a copy. $8 a year delivered .anywhere in the United Sla tcs. !Deadline for all copy. Which must be typed and double-~p.aced. is 7 p.m. on Monday and Thursday at the Concordy nfficc. aoa\c Old ChapeL Office telephone number ts 370-6155. hut the office is only in tu.e 011 Monda~ and Thutsday nights. For all editorial nwttcr; .• call the cdit<ir·ih-l·hiel at J'lJ- 1640; for tnl<.rmauon call Student Activitie' Office at 170-(11 IlL Zip Instant Press 467 State St. Quick Service Xerox, offset printing, I to 10,000 copies, low rates for college students. (across fl,'om Mike's Subs) -----·-·_· .. . • Dave's Mens Shop 453 State St. (downtown Schenectady) -THE F-ORUM ' by WILLARD F. ENTEMAN faculty is important at Uni-on; the students are important at Union, but it is the process which goes on between a faculty rhenlber a,nd a .student which is most important. When appropriately established, these pwcesses .also relate faculty .to faculty and student to student. The magic of · gwwth, developmeqt, mutual self~respect, and mutua-l admir:atiqn is what we must aim fer and capture, and it is a goal the small college is uniquely suited to achieve. It will always be difficult to know how to achieve that goal, and reasonable people may surely disagree. However, if we could agree that the creati\~e and continuing development of that proce.ss is what we wish to achieve, we could a:t least set our sights. In the last article l wrote for this coh~mn, I said that I would try periodically to lift our sights from the petty annoyances caused by living closely together and encourage us to consider what kind of educational leadership role we might establish for Union. In this column, I shaU try to addreS$. the issue of si-ze. Relatively speaking, .Union is a small college. Realistically speaking, l) nion witl (and should) remain small over the next few years. Growth would cause further dilution of our endowment-per- student ratio, already distressing]¥ low. In all likelihood, growth would cause a dilution of the quality of our students and the relative quality of many of our services. The question we should face seriously is whether there are genuine benefits which accrue ftrom a small size, and we must ask whether those benefits h:1we relevance for the future. ls Union's size a mere historical accident, or can a case be made for it? Is Union merely a pale imitati<m of the \tvy\ university, or does Union have a sistinctive r()le? At the moment, 1 take the optimistic and positive side, and I would sketch some reasons here. There are, no doubt, the usual reascms: increased familiarity among the members of the College, being a bigger fish by being in a smaller pond, ete. These reasons are important', but as the larger institutions continue to 'break themselves into \colleges within colleges,\ some of those supposed advantages become less clearly uniquely identified with places like Union. It seems to me there are at least two advantages which no amount of structuring and restructming will allow the target University to achieve. The first has- to do with the educational process itself. The The second advantage which I sh,ould address here has to do with our self-governance .. T~ Iar;ge organization must, by its very nature, he subject to the waxing and waning of various interest groups. fn the Iatge o•:ganization, it is assumed that ea~;:h department or division or empire will- fight for its own program and leave it to some other authorities to worry about the whole. 1'his is government by advocacy. Decisions are not really made; they are negotiated; We can,_ if we will, _avoid that system. Vo! e. are small ,enough that we ca,n recognize there is little to bc~gained. hy any of us in a process of weakening some other major areas of the College. We can expand the conditioned self-interest whicp we seem to have so natura-lly by expanding our horizons. W1thout losing ourselves in the College, we can expand ourselves and our interests so that we take a·il interest in the concerns .. of others. 1{, by attempting to he leaders, we are to show others that education is important, we can begin here by showing that the careful, deliberative process -of governance will Work. The Language We Know by MATTI{EW SWARTZ The issue-. of Hebrew I 0 has made me think of languages recently, although what I have to say has little if anything to do With whether Mr. Welkovics teaches here next term. Rather, the relationship. between the language of the age and the world role that that land assumed whose tongue · was studied by the educated men of the age. In other words, a semi- sc;holarly look at what turns into, I must honestly admit, a long- . winded redundancy. . I admit ta being a bit out of field, but to begin with the Greeks and the necessity -Of knowledge of Greek and Latin through the Renaissance required no great exposition. For if it did, I'm not sUFe I could provide one. Clearly, though, .a man interested in pursuing the early philosophers or the works of the Medieyal scribes knew Latin and Greek or he was fimShed. Later, Italian gained some prominence with the Crusades as the Holy Wars stained red the paths between Holy Cities and spread the Knowledge of the West to the Mid-Eastern barbarian. Vergil became Dante's predecessor and Italy produced art that eventually shook the world. By moving quickly I hope to· reach my poiQ.t before anyone journeying this far fails asleep anticipating the punchline. The Kappa Alpha Society Cordially Invites All Friends · o.f the Family to GRAPE & GRAIN Saturday _after the football game. \And he said unto them, 'Thy grain shall be thy sustenance'\ By the Enlightenment period, well, I hesitate with fear to guess French and German began to the lengths to Which your dominate while their .respective imagination may be pulled ~n this nations proceeded to battle great, American taffy-pull of an throt:tgh some two nundn;d and election year. some odd years of continued Let's start living the history We fighting. France had her tentacles ate now writing. . . . ' . . . lopped off finally in Africa, I / believe, but most memorably in, that's right, Indochina. French, P.ROCTOR'S 1~:;g:: in literature, and German, in science, were studied by anyone who was, ·indeed, anyone. .\- STATE ST., SCHENECTADY. Now, the biggest international power history has ~ver .known is so powerful, or - indifferent, or just plain blind, that it drops bombs on a minister of last era's leading intellectual and military superman, while all the time calling it a dreadful mistake. Can reality for an entire nation's people really be a dreadful mistake? Are we so dogmatically evil? Defense Secretary Laird, following the bombing, _responded with the excuse that the French embassy might have been destroyed by North Vietnamese anti-aircraft fire in the midst of a U.S. bombing sortie. Our bombing has now precluded the defense the North can muster. If you believe Laird, Oct. 18-24 Fillmore Panic In· Needle Park· oct. 25-31 Play'it\Again, Sam t•st: ot'the · Ited Hot Lovers Nov. 1-8 Hammer Chato's Land · Nov. 4 & 5 matinee onlyf Godzilla v, 'Smog Monster Nov. S.lS Big Store Day at the Circus ~·,.- '\'. ; ~-''-- -~~ IN STOCK: UQ-8 J:>X-10 A0-8 U0-18 .. INSIDE EDGE CYCLE'S 775 STATE ST., SCHENECTADY Open Tonight (Friday) Untilll:30 p.m. -: - lh of tl Octo' 113. . Com a:nsw merr: comr AI be t) can-n pubU them Wi (Sep1 New! Libn This locat usc. one selfis Ar parti, -simi:! week conU or at 23 .. Re is SJ Thur unde - Polit auth' Ni-xo his c betw Nf have swirr help. Mel\. Dep~ 1st held p.m. last inYit' nigh1

j .. CONCORD!ENSIS, fl·iday, Octoher ;!0. 1972 l\here win be an Qp~n Heari:ng of the Steering Committee on October 23 at9:15 p.m. in HU 113. The members of the Steering Committee will be present to answer questions · from any member of the college community. * * * * All Letters to the Editor must 'be typewritten or else Concordy cannot accept them for publication. Please •cto~;~ble space them as well. * * ·* * Will. whoever stole Issue #17 (Sept. '72) -of the Mother Earth News from the met7;anine of the Library please return it there?. This magazine, like aU those located t.here, is for everybody's use. To hoard it away so that no one else can use it is deeply selfish .. :1; * * * Any students interested in participating in the inter-nation ·simulation, to be tun the weekend of October 27-29; please ·contact Prof. Walbek in HU 121 or at 370~6215, by Monday, Oct. 23. * * * * Rev. Charles P._ Henderson; Jr. is speaking in Old Chapel on Thursday'.eyening, Oct. 26 at 7:30 under the sponsorship of the · Political Forum. Henderson is author -of a book entitled The Ni·xon Theology; he will. direct his comments to the relationship between morality and politics.- * * * * Need odd jobs done - but have ho time? Union's own swimming team would like to help. -Contact Coach Robert McMurray_ of the Athletic Department for details. * * * * Israeli Folk Df!.ncing will be held this Tues., Oct. 24., at 7:30 p.m. in Old Chapel, It was great last Tuesday,- . and everyone's iBVited. Come over on ·Tuesday night and bring a friend!! · · JEFF BLITHER •••••• Attention AU Big Brothers and Sisters The Big Sister J Big Brothe~ program's annual fall picnic wiU be held on Sunday, October 22 in Jackson's Gard~rr. beginning at 12 noon. There will be a Halloween .candy hunt as well as picnic lunch, fU,n and games for all, so be thereat nooB, S1,.mday! ATTENTION SENIORS! Yearbook portraits will be taken in the lower lounge -of Hale House from Monday, Nov. 6, to Friday, Nov. 10. Sign up for your sitting at Student Activities in Old Gym Ua:ll. A $3. siUing fee is requiFed at the titne the portrait is taken,. To insure that your picture ·is in the yearbook sign up today. . * * * * This Friday, Oct. 20, the Union College Coffeehouse is proud to· present Boston ·recording a·rtist, Bill Staines, along with Union's own, Hershei Raff. The Coffeehouse is at 8:30. p.m. in Old Chapel ~ admission is 50e, coffee and doughnuts are free. * * * * Tickets are still available for the Saturday, Sunday, Monday, Tuesday, and Wednesday night performances of The Brig. Since the audience c~p~city is limited to 75 .per night, everyone is advised· to reserve seats as early iri advance a'S possible. The Nott Memorial box office is open daily from 1•5 and 7-9 p.m.: phone, 370-6153. * * * * Prof. M. Urofsky will speak on \The Jewish Component in American History'\ at a Hille) Brunch this Sunday, Oct. 22 at II :00 a.m. Bagels and lox will be served, and it· should prove to be an excellent morning. Cable Turtleneck Wheat a handsome way to face the ~orld-'in our miniature cabled turtle neck that's all brawn and wooiy warmth. Knit of 1 00% fine virgin wooll it looks as though some loving hands cable.d a messaqe just for you. A harvest of colors •. $22.50 1 Dave's S~re Shop Tues, Thurs 'til 9 WN SCHENECTADY A look at the life of Fr. Charles P. Steinmetz wiU be the focus of the 4Jrd Annual Steinmetz Memorial lecture on 'Tuesday. Oct. 24. _ _. Union Engineering Professor Emeritus Harold W. Bibber. former S~einmet7 aide Emil Remscheid. and Joseph S. Hayden. a member of the scientist's adopted family. will he on the panel for the program. which is set for 8:30 p.m. in Memorial Chapel, The personal lo.ok at the famous Geneml Electric Co. and Union College scientist is a shift from previous years when the memorial lecture was geared to some aspect of Steinmetz's work. In addition to the program .. the Steinmetz electric car. currently being restored by Union Colkge students, and other Steinmett me m o r a b i I i a frO· rn t h~e Schenectady Museum will he _on display in the lobby of the chapel, beginning at 7:30p.m. * * * The subject of Witchcraft will be exag1ined in depth.. with readings from the premier Devil- watcher of Colonial America, Cotton Mather. A short play. written by Union student Scott Wittet, entitled \The Lovers,\ will be performed next. This and other ·delights wait for you on Friday. October 27. in Arts 202. when the Union College Cabaret has its second performance. There will be two performances, the r irs t at 8:00 p.m. and the second at 9:30. Admission will be one half- dollar. and, due to the nature of these presentations. no one can be admitted after the performance has begun. The entire campus community is welcome to attend, but please come · early, a~ there is ·limited seating capacity. . * * * * TL ''B ... ,, •ne r1g, ·· -- Continued from Paee '' cavernously impersonal setting of the Fieldhouse. dtrector Rich Mendoza succeeds . in creating a grim mood. The actors obviously have worked hard at disciplining themselves for their demanding roles. Ray Burrasca 1 as the Warden-. portrays a swaggering and sarcastic Southerner in charge of the Brig. He is complemented by a snarling and sadistic Tepperma n, played hy Larry Rosenberg, and a comparatively mild, almost bored, Midwesterner named Grace, played by John Bridger. The prisoners (No. I. Harry Lessin, No. 2, director Rich _ Mendo7a, No, 3, Larry Hadbavny, No. 4, Joe Weinstein. No. 5, Jerry Coleman, No. 6, Frank Barthell. No. 7, Chris Brown) convincingly commun- icate the oppress,ive atmosphere ol the Hng by their ensemble acting and their ceaseless activity on stage throughout the length of the performance. Dave Cahill gives a strong performance as the new N urn ber 5 who enters the Brig in the second half of the play, and Ricardo Smith chases prisoners· to and from the Brig with a cold indifference and brute power. The setting of the play is suitable to the action and, although the acoustics in the Fieldhouse pose problems for the limited <!Udience on occasion, the impact of the two-hour performance is powerful. This is a fine production, well worth the effort to see it. Maurice B. Graubart & Sons For three Generations Nature's Weekend On Oct. 27, 28 and 29, three non~verbal, rnultimedi:a theatre events will be presented · in Memorial Chapel. The events will be produced b); the Em ironments Co.. which is composed of N.Y. filmmaker and composer Phil Niblock and dancers Barbara Lloyd and Ann Danoff. The eYcnts are a umque con1hination of film. music. and dance which examine and extract the essential forms and mowments existing in nutun:. Environments lV Ten Hundred Inch Radii is a film exploration of the Keene Vallev in the Adirondacks. and will o~ presented Friday night. On Saturday, Environments Ill 100 Mile. Radius which was filmed in Central N.Y.. and Sunday. EnvinmH1cnts rt Cross Country a filmatic tour across the U.S. Says James Hariathas, director of the Everson Museum in Syracuse(< N.Y .• \'The films are a collage of the most intense perceptions of .nature perceptions which are powerful, sophisticated, stringently quietistic and at the same time basic or. b~tter. pervaded with · animism. I have seen no other , films that generate such high drama out of nature or make more intense psychic demands on the \iewer.\ Describing his work. Mr. Nihlock says that it is intended .. . . . to present images of nature which are accesihlc to the puhlic; to bring the natural em ironment into the museum and makt: an intense art experience by combining dance and music; to abstract natural demwts hy isolating them from their surroundings; to experience aspects of nature as pure form and or moYement.\ The Environments ewnts \\ill he at H:OO p.m. each evening. Ad mission is $1.50 and tickets will he a\ailahle at tht' door. Memorial Chapel. For further information caJI Nott Memorial Box Office. 370-6153. ········,········:·········~ • • • 5 UNISEX ! I Is Introducing the I • Now Look in • I Hair Cutting by 1 I ERIC I • • • Formerly of Kenneth N.Y.C. • = Hair by Jason cf N.Y.C. I • • • Tues. & Wed. l to 5 • I . By Appointment Only FR 0-0411 . I •••••.•••••••••••••••••••• ,. SUNSHINE PROMOTIONS PRESENTS IN CONCERT John Sebastian an exciting evening with John Sebastian and friends plus Pure Prairie League 1 Show Only 7:30 Mon., Oct. 23 at the Palace Theatre in Albany OUTLETS Crystal Mansion Boutique (Troy & Saratoga) Film Sounds (Albany & Schenectady) Mail orders to: Pqlace 1heatre. Box 287. A lhan.r

4 Friday, October 10, 1972 Speaking Out: Lucas On Soccer I am fascinated by the game of soccer. To me, it is the greatest game ever devised. I see in it aH of the elements I . ~.ave found attractive in other sports. The creative possibilities are probably innumerable. ' We all have something th.at we like doing more than anything ehe, something which gives us the opportunity to be our most creal'ive self, which we know will give us many pleasurable moments for as long as we live. Thi~ is what Bori~ Spassky meant when he said that to him, chess is like lite. This is what soccer is like to me. 1 had hopeq to cover soccer for Concordy thb year so that I could share my enthusiasm with others but I' could quickly see that I would have a tough time saying very much good about what I saw when our team played. I wasn't disappointed with the LJ.Uality of our players. On the contrary. I am quite impressed with the caliber of the players on this year's squad. There is not a single player that is less than good and there are eve.n a ~ouplc I consider phenomenal. ,(This may he a hit generous. but that is what I feel.) Yet when they take the field. utter chaos seem~ to erupt. When we win. it's not the tesult of the team working together as a unit a~ it i~ the moments of greatness oy certain individuals. When we !me. any moments of creative hall handling pass by unnoticed bcca usc we lost. I ha\e had the pleasure of witnessing ~oceer being played in Eui·ope and the dif.ference is like da~ and night. Gone were the 50 ymd blasts out of bounds. straight up. backwards, or any place else but to someone (all of ~A hich is usually followed by a mad rush for the ball by I to 21 players. and all of which is followed by a terrifying crunch of b~_ldies. replete with· the gnashing ol teeth, swinging of fists and kicking of shins). Gone were the injured players hobbling off the field to the applause and cheers of their o\\n players and fans and tht' booing of their opponents. (ione v.erc the totally dejected lace;. ol the losers and the mockmgl) ec:-.tatic faces of the \\ li111CI'~. ln\te<td. hoth teams approacht:d one another with a saious respect for the abilities and limitations of others <ind of themselves. These Elll·opea ns I recognitcd that soccer can be a \ast!y rcv.:1rding game when two teams pla> with one another as well as against one another; that no play. e\en if it means winning the game, is worth a serious injury to themselves or to t.heir opponents. Lacking this· realization, a II 0 yard soccer field can be turned inio one littered with broken bodies. Now that may seem OK with some, but I was never able to get into the manhood thir.~g this country seems to have about injury and pain. If someone gets his knee so mangled that he will have trouble walking for the rest of his life, yet manages to hobble off the field. everyone applauds and he feels like a. truly noble man. What are peopl'e .applauding for when a talented athlete takes a chance on be.ing crippled for the rest of his life just to be the fi.rst one to hit a leather ball'? Unless stupidity be the mark of a man, then I truly am confused. Since when is a good player one who is totally insensitive to his own abilities and limitations, as well as those of his opponents? I had always considered a good player to be one who is sensitive and perceptive of his abilities- and limitations and uses this insight to put together a creative performance on the field. But perhaps I have again missed the point. In fact, I think that is exactly what , I have missed, THE POtNT. that fanatical obsession this country seems to have with the Big Play, the Big Score, in proving to all that we are the best because we have more goddamn POINTS than anyone else. Talk about inconsistency, her:e we are giving Nixon a hard time tlbout his ·~empty re<}Sons\ for stayi.ng i·n Veitnam while our own behavior in ·the games we play entirely supports his reasoning. Why the hell do you think that we are still in Vietnam'! Honor and dignity, man; we gotta fuckin' win all the time, that's why. And that's what POINTS are all about. Isn't it possible that there is such a thing as losing a game and still being a winner; making mistakes. but being receptive to the understanding. the further insight. these mistakes give us; 1 learning from our mistakes. and finding satisfaction in knowing that we hm.e learned and me the better tor it? Are we all so· hung up on what everyone might think of us that we are afraid to make mistakes. to be ourselves'? I think the answer is painfully obvious. We are. Don't you all think it's about time to grow up? I'm talking to players. ·coaches. spectators ·-- of any sport, really. not just soccer - anyone who has thought it somehow by FRED LUCAS enjoyable to see someone hurt or be blowing his brains out get hurt in a game, anyone who through his whistle at the has tried to make a player on amount of contact in one of our either team feel foolish when he games. has made a mistake, a·nyone who Soccer is meant to be a game still thinks that the team with the of continuous action, !but not of most points is the better team. continuous high speed action. What do 1 want to see change? The professional teams of I'd like to see our team loosen up Europe don't begin to aproach on the field, smile once in a the average rate at which our while, at least act like maybe players race ar-ound the field. they're enjoying what they're Certainly the Europeans have doing. Before this can happen, moments in their games of though, the spectat.ors have to amazing quickness and speed, change, have to show themselves but these moments are the receptive to the type of game that culmination of a relatively slow could be played. For instance, and precise process of probing applauding when the other team the other team, of creating scores; not wild. foot-'st·ompin' suitable opportunities for these warhoops, just a moderate clap sudden thrusts toward a goal. of the hands to show you can Without this slower and more reco.gnize and appreciate a good deliberate approach to the goal, a play, whoever· makes. it. Another team will never· be able to set change I'd like to see is in itself up for a real team score; spectator awareness of th.e rather, it will be forced to rely on dangers of soccer. If you started individual performances for any to applaud when one of ,our action. Soccer is best and most players back off another player exciting when the whole team threatening tp take his head of( · ~egins to function·· as a single instead of letting •him .get hiso whole. There is a definite thrill to teeth kicked in and . then watching eleven guys so into one applauding when he's carried off another's mind and body that the field, I would predict an they are playing as onein moving amazing change in the spirit. of a ball downfield. This excitement the players. (Just remember that is impossible when a team moves they try to give you what you ask faster than it can and cannot for, so don't ask for more than maintain its unity of spirit. you'd be willing to give yourself.) Yet because the spectators do I· think a little· applause at the expect this type of game, and end of the game for both teams is have shown and continue to an effective way to show your show this expectation by the enjoyment of the game. They are timing of their applause (and busting their asses to· entertain abuse), the players end up trying you. and the least y 0 u can do is to 'play this way, and the result is show some appreciation. a dangerous mess, In all fairness, I guess the main message I'm though, I can't even blame the trying tp. get. ftc ross is that the spectators, for this ii the o.nly spectators ca·n do much m \vay we hoaVe known how to play determining the spirit of a soccer a game. Football is the sport we game. I really can't blame the are told to compare soccer with players for the chaotic way our and it is only natural tha.t we soccer games turn out. Everyone should look for the ~ame type of goes to watch them with the action. I was only able to see attitude that the hustle and the another way to play a game by contact that are so much a part going abroad and seeing it played of football somehow belong on there. I don't expect we shall eyer the soccer field. They don't. The be able to play and appreciate number. of injuries \'? have per soccer completely in the manner season m our soccer squads are of the Europeans. The attitudes unheard of on any European they carry into a game refl~ct team. A European referee would their whole cultural set of values, .. the same as with us now. I do, however, believe in the .possibility of change, and. it is my hope that with enough people applauding at the right times we can settle our soccer games down and get a more enjoyable game for everyone, players and· spectators, in the process. I don't really feel I've said anything new here. Everyone l tatk to agrees with what I've said. They just don't • think anyone else d:oes, so they accept things as they are. Do me a favor, OI<? Ask the guy next lo you (or girl - this .is a potential move for all you ass-hounds) what they think about what I've. said, and see if they don't <tgree. Garnet To Host RPI Union College coa9h Gerry Everling may be checking the weather report as close as the scouting report as he prepares his team to host RPI Saturday in the· 70th renewal of New York State's oldest continuing rivalry. , The Dutchmen have fashioned th:eir F.ecnr<l. ()n a stingy de-fense. ·Led by Tom Ana.ker and Charlie · Weekes, the defense has allowed only 79 yards average on the ground. Jerry Cuffey led the secondary with two interceptions against Rochester. Ron Westbrook celebrated his return to the lineup with a touchdown against Rochester. He will team with Jack Siedlecki at halfback with either Rich Jaszczak or AI Albano at fullback. Dave Rearic will start at Quarter.back with Gary Lauver expected to see action at that spot also. Senior Bob Wilson, along with Don Rupsis, have been anchoring the offensive line .. Kickoff is slated for I :30 sa·turday afternoon at Alexander Field. Married Couples Part-Time Job Care for other people's children or homes while on vacation. Free room and board. work as . you want. Must have car, 1 child allowance. $100/week. Contact 355·8395 anytime, 2 Regina Dr., MAMA BIANCHI'S RESTAURANT 1135 Barrett. S.t. Schenectady. Real Italian Food. Cooked. To Order We Cater To Students' . . The Friendliest Place in Town OPEN TO 3 A.M. FRI~ ...... SAT. ONCE A KNIGHT ENLISTED IN THE. KING'S DRAGOON$ 1 AND FOR THE PRICE 01:-..1. 6-PACK OF SCHAEFER BEERE., HE WAS PROMISEO/'A SPECIAL TEST; •• WHE.REIN HIS TRUE. TALENTS WOULD BE REVEALED. •• ~~~atm~all Schaefer Breweries, New York and Albany, N.Y., Baltimore, Md., Lehigh V·alleY; Pa, -- Vol - IRt Eur1 t L~st Internal present• year. T Adam Univers topic o Europe Europ< questio Why ar and int~ One that th1 U.S. fo effect Europe situatic individ· depend for for Howev not thi enough would Europe the OJ Finlanc Beca conflic! .wishes trouble the U. Finlan~ the u.: with \cauch policy.' moved and wi Duri answer said tl Europe accept dictate see so, like 1 Swede Eas1 positic analog positic the E~ u.s. nation Foreig way accord Itmus Ask positic Tito d that 1 on tl remail .. defen · :Natiol in Ea else. '~

I, y t g e a r · .. founded at Union College in 1877 Vol. 102, No. 10 Tuesday, October 24, 1972 20 cents IR,c· Lecture On EuJop.ean-. Security The ·Trustees' Results by SCOtT REITER Last Thursday night the International Relation~ Club presented its first lecture of the year. The speaker was Professor Adam Bromke of Carleton University, Ottawa, Canada. The topic of his lecture was \Eastern .;_, .. Europe and the Problems of ;., : ... , .. European Security.\ The question brought up by this is: Why are the Russians so amiable and interested .in negotiations? , ·-1' ' One possible explanation is that the USSR will play upon a U.S. force reduction ih. Europe to effect the ''Finlandization'' of Europe. That is, to create a situation where states are individually independent but dependent on the Soviet Union for foreign policy, like Finland. However, Professor Bromke does not think the Russians are naive enough to believe that lhe U.S. would totally disengage from Europe, therefore leaving them the opportunity to carry out Finlandization. Because of the growing conflicts with China, the USSR wishes to lessen the risk of ·trouble on the Western front. If the U.S. does leave Europe and Finlandization is implemented, the U.S. might strengthen its ties with China. This is the \caucbemar of• Soviet foreign policy.\ The USSR has ·slowly moved to meet the West halfway. and will continue to do so. .· : ·>-- ) ·· ·-photo by Jeff w~ilburg Bob Mitchell fabove on· a PAT) kicke4 a 51 yard]ield goal-longest in Union's history) as the Garnet drubbed RPI 38-2J\in the 70th game of New York State's oldest football rivalry. The soccer team also beat the Engineers, 1-0. Details of the sports weekend can be found on page 4. \-'\\\- ...... Standing Room Only At M.ason Concert by ROBERT SHUGOLL For the first time this semester Union was exposed to a big time rock and roll band headed by Dave Mason. Mason took a standing-room-only crowd on a trip through slow, haunting melodies . anci head-shaking rockers, including a taste of both recent and old material. working oil an energy level that didn't drop for the d:.:ration of the show. \Dr.\ Rick Jaeger persistently pounded out explosive rhythms on drums, while Mark Jordan's tasteful and smooth fitting organ playing Was even more awesome. Combined with his bass man _and of course, Mason's excellent guitar work which he likes to keep in the background, the group neatly complemented each other, as well as the best around. Co\tinued on Page 3 by MARTY SHERMAN The Trustees of Union College with this reporter, pointed out . met on campus this past weekend that improved athletic facilities to discuss issue~ that ranged from would oe used by those students the planned addition to the not involved in sports. There is library and . physical education , not much money on hand now plant to the image Union for such improvements (Tartan presents to prospective minority floor in Field House) but the students. The over-riding concern need for such renovations is at these meetings was the recognized by the Trustees. financial situation of the College. Concerning the Library and the Willard Enteman, Provost, stated Field House, Dean Malloy \Nothing substantial .in terms of remarked, \It was a frustrating changes resulted from this past meeting. The Trustees wanted to weekend. The Board continues to do things that finances be concerned with a · balanced prohibited.\ budget.\ The current status of the The addition to the Lil;m~n~ Student Center was also became a major topic~ ,;:_of disctr.ssed: It now appears that discussion because.. o;f · tne ~iWork- on the Center will be discrepancy between ~liesi·gh· \~'tonfpleted in March. McCabe estimates and contracting bids. told of improvements that must The architect's original estimate be made in order to meet fire and. was some 30% under the safety standards. Among these contractor's bid. The Kresgee changes are the relocation of Foundation had offered stairwells from the center of the $250,000, provided that contracts building to each side. As now were signed by November l, · conceived, the Center will house 1972. It is not known at present the offices of Student Activities, whether or not the delay the Campus Book Store, a necessitated by the cost over-run central mail room, game rooms will , further i m p.e r i 1 the and a room with good machines. construction of the addition. The presence of Dr. Murray, a Negotiations with Kresgee should Trustee and teacher at Howard begin soon. · The two possible University, lent a great deal to plans for th~ addition, one a two the discussion of Hickok Hquse story structure, the other a full and the cultural deficiencies of three floors, will cost $1.9 million the college in general. It was and $2.4 million respectively. confirmed that Hickok House The athletic facilities, or the was an administrative problem. lack of them, received attention Dr. Murray also noted that this past weekend. Coach Allison Union had not in the past always reiterated the need to make the presented an accurate picture of Field House a structure usable to campus cultural life for minority students not involved i.n ·students. Student Trustee Peter intercollegiate· sports. Trustee Pach commented on the Tim McCabe, in a discussion effectiveness of Murray's During the question and answer period, Professor Bromke said that the youth in Eastern European countries generally accept socialism, but not dictatorship. They would like to see social democracy, something like the political system of Sweden. Eastern Europe's social position, Bromke said,. is analogous to its geographical position, i.e., somewhere between the East and the West. But the U.S. should not push these nations . toward democracy. Foreign interventjon is the WliOng way to establish democracy, according to Professor Bromke .. It must come from within. In explaining th.e virtues. of Mason's live performance, one all important concept keeps coming to mind - togetherness. In· a time when even the most popular groups m, their concerts with various gimmicks and obscure the vocals and each other's instruments with excessive and unbalanced volume, Mason let us in on what a truly together sound is. He unveiled- his and the band's talents to,us in. a deliberate step- by-step pro.cess whidt culminated in a total mind sweep. Increase In Campus Political Activity observations in stimulating discussion of members of the Board. \The basic tenet of discussion of minority issue should present itself and not sell itself to incoming and prospective students,\ stated Pach. Asked how the Yugoslavian position will be affected when Tito dies, .Professor Bromke said that Yugoslayia 'Will not change on that account. They will remain cohesive in order to _defend · their position. · Nationalism is still as important in Eastern Europe as anywhere else. At the set's start Mason came on stage .alone, sat down with an acoustic guitar, and played \Can't Stop Worrying, Can't Stop Loving,\ off of his \Headkeeper'' album. He was joined on the second number by Mark Jordan on piano~ who added a delicate touch to \Sad and.Deep as You,\ a song Mason originally recorded with Traffic. Then Mason brought on his drummer and bassist and quickly switc}Jed the tempo, bursting into \Just A Song.\ The group was hp.pressively tight from the start, photo by Jeff Weilburg As Election Day approaches, political activity on campus will accelerate this week. The McGovern campaign plans to present activities mixing dialogue and music. ' On Wednesday everting, Oct. 25, at 8:15 in Humanities 115 Professor Thomas Kershner will moderate a discussion of the issues raised in the election campaign; this event has been planned in conjunction with a National · Teach-In Day sponsored by Faculty for McGovern-Shriver. The meeting, which is timed to follow a nationally televised McGovern . address beginning at 7:30, will include brief speeches by several faculty, students, and others (such as Father James Murphy). Professor Kershner, who, along with Professor Robert Sharlet, beads the Union chapter of Faculty for McGovern, stated his desire to bring the •college community together in an open discussion of the issues. He encouraged students who are undecided and those who support Nixon to also attend. · Dgve .Mason Meanwhile, those who like to combine music and politics will have their opportunity on Thursday, October 26 in Old Chapel at approximately 9:15 p.m. (following the Political Forum speaker). Stu_dent talent . ' ' • , . 1 .. t • ' . • · t ~ :~ ~ ~ 4 ~ j ~ • \ h ~ ' t 1 ; J t w a Q tt 1 t t 1 ~~-y t t l ~ ;, l t b ~ y 1 1 t r ~ t t t a ~ 1 ' 1 ) t 1 II • • ~ l ' I will perform in support of the McGovern ~;ampaign. This is an informal concert arrangement which is likely to last well into the night. Again, those of all political persuasions are invited. Dean ·Beam presented a tentative proposal to the Student Affairs Committee that called for the c:re~tion of a graduate student resident ~dvisor position Continued oil Page 2 Tour de Union Is Off and Running by DAVIS HEUSSLER In the wake of Henry Diamond's trek acorss New York State for the Environmental Bond Issue comes yet another highlight in the world of cycling - the third annual Tour de Union. This year's event, to be held on Sunday, November 5 at 2:00P.M., is open to all interested students, faculty, and alumni, but participants are urged to sign up early with Mrs. Marra in Student Activities as the field will be limited to thirty 4-man teams. The first running of the race was in the fall of 1970 and it attracted a vast array of vehicles ranging from finely-tuned French racers to Salvation Army cheapies. Increasing interest in 10-speed bicycles upgraded last year's competition and this year's is expected to be better still. Word has it that last year's champi'Gns, Hubbard, Siletzky, Tytko, and Jamba will defend, though a strong challenge is expected from Bob Hesse's. squad. Fancy equipment and racing . experience are certainly not prerequisites for the race as the main purpose is to have a good time. It .should be noted, though, that it is a single-class race and that there are no handicaps. Rules and details of this year's new course will he available in Student Activities. Any questions will he answered by Bob Ingersoll. or Paul . Martini, Chi Psi (346-9829). ~ . . .. ' •• ' j I j I I' Iii I iII~ I j I' I'. I.

~J~_~,==~~~ .. -~~--~--~--~--~-~-~~~~~~~·=··~-~~~-··-C~~~\~~-···~IO_R_D~·-IE~~~S-l~S: .• ~t-ob_e_r_2_~_1_9_72_.~~--------~~--~~~~-.----~~, L e tt ·e· rs· As l said before, Film liC~J>S 1. An ·out · of focus picture, '. COl\lCORDIENSIS . . rounded at U~ion Collge in 1877 Editor-in-Chief ............................ George Bain · r·c· ·News Editor ........................ ; .......•. · ... m a1n Associate Editor ......................... MQttbew Swllrtz M · Ed' Rita Morandi anagmg Jtors... .. . . . . . . . . .. .. . .. .... . · . Jim Rostenberg Features Editor ........................... AI Reisch Sports Editor. .............................. Bruce Batchelder Photo Editors .............................. Les Kernan Jeff Weilburg Husincss Managcr .................. , ..... Mie~ael J. Hurle~ National Advertising ................... Stephen''J<elly ~u hscri ptions ............................... Mike BenJst.ein Fxccutin· Editors ....................... J•eter Bi¢kerman Louis S. Snitkoff Ray Faught Bill Erichson Jim. Smith Brian Lewis Stewart Abramson Andy Richman Scott Reiter Malcolm Snowden Nelson Well larry Wharton Billy DeBear Scott ·Burns. CONCORDY STAFF Louis Barash Pat Bolten Mitch Lubart Steve11 Krakauer Marty Sherman Woody Gutherz Tom Conley Don Hamerman Fred Lucas Bob-Sax Debbie (}Iasser Francesco Isgro Ph}'llis R. Edelman Gail Ooodnilln Robert Shugoll Mark Nind'el Bill West RonA.ines Pbil. AJcabes Dave Stf.!>ln. W9ody Laue·r . Doug Cu:penter .Dayid 'Wag~nk_n®ht •••o Would you believe the current standings in the Pets Hall of Fame? As of Monday afternoon, the following pets have been registered with the Dean of Students Office and ~ave be_en awarded the following gold license tags (they are listed With their proud ownets): I. Hedges, a dog, Scott Burns 2. Medley, a dog, Steve Lowe 3. Jeffrey, a cat, Mary Farrell 4. Skitzoharra, a cat, Virginia Hobart 5. Bobby, a dog, Barbara Beck 6. Daisy, a -dog, Nancy Nelson· 7. Peirita, a dog, James Eckley 8. Greta, a dog, James Sletteland 9. Gremlin, a dog, Jonathan Gould 10. Hen'i·i Gaudie-Brzeska. a doll. Mark Urman J I. Geneieve, a dog, David Vesty 12. Phoebe, a dog, Elizabeth Kaiser Who would like to wear lucky number 13? For only two dollars the thoughtful owner can register ~is/her pet with Mrs. Snowden in the Dean of Students off1ce. Surely there are more than 12 pets on campus. gsb Trustee Meeting Coadaued f~ Pace 1 m several dormitories. These students, it is hoped, could provide students with a more effective means of communication with the Housing Office. The plans for improvement of dormitory lounges were not discussed. . President Tony Faga, speakmg for the Steering Committee, presented the Student Affairs Committee view of the Hebrew issue. Don Foley presented the paper which expressed the opinion of the forty-three Hebrew lO students. The trustees were apparently sympathetic towards students who had proceeded to plan their program on the basis of faulty catalogue information. Criticism centered on the decision to discontinue Hebrew II and 12 last June, when students had already left the\ .. , campus. Student representatives were told Friday night that the problem would be delilt with.' Saturday morning's Trustee meeting saw no mention of the Hebrew issue, however. In general, this fall's meeting of the trustees was in the words of Pach; \a good meeting, one in which students were listened to.\ Dean Malloy stated, \I was delighted in the contributions of both student and fa cui ty trustees.\ Tim McCabe wishes to announce that an open meeting will be held next week (time to be announced) where he wiU present a report of the meeting and answer all questions. - Concordiensis is published every Tuesday and Friday during the sc.bool y~ar except during examination and vacation periods by the student b_ody of ~nton College. Schenectady. N.Y. National advertising re~resentabve, Nat1~nal Educational Advertising Service, Inc. College Pubhshe~s ~epre.s:ntattve, National Educational Advertising Service, Inc .. N.Y.C. Edttonal_ Of~1re, Old Gym, Union College. Publication Office, The Jewish World PubhcatJOns, 771 State Street. Schenectady, N.Y. 12307, 346-2356 Entered in the Schenectady post office as Second Class Mail Matter. Subscription 20 cents a cc.py. $8 a year delivered anywhere in the United States. . Deadline for all copy, which must be typed and double-spaced, IS 7 p.m. on Monday and Thursday at the Concordy office, above ?ld Ch~pel. Office telephone number is 370-6155, but the office IS onl~ m ~se o.n Mc.nday and Thursday nights. For all editorial matters, call the ed1tor-m-cluef at 393- 1640; for information call Student Activities Office at 370-6118. _ Jay Billiards Lounge . PLAY POOL - RELAX Daily i0-9 p.m. ... · .. · .. . · _ ~ . · ·· . has had to deal, in the past, with e~~used by putting the projector unfavo·rable reception due to as far away as possible from the . :i'o the Editor: ignorance and misinfor~nation. screen to maximize screen One can understand g.s.b.~s However, this is the first time coverage, far beyond th.e desire to provide Union students that such blatant ignora11.ce 1>f projector's capabjlities. With sensational editorials. After facts and outright . malice has 2. A. lengthy transition period aU, Union is a pretty boring plaCJe come ftom t·he editor o:f the 'between reels· which completely that needs aU the entertainment it school newspaper. In additi<:>n; breaks your train of thought in can get. :But has he considered the editorial column, w~ich is viewing the film. . how much more boring Union supposedly an intelligent, well- 3. A jumpy picture and a would be without Film Haps? informed one, has never before 'distorted sound:..track. which, As a senior, :I can remember been so badly served. I'm. s\Ire. once it occurs in the film (due to what Union w~ts like When there Mr, · Bain, that you see yo:ur~elf improper film threading or other wasn't anything to do on a as an idealistic agent ?Jlet:\atrng such technical reasons), is Saturday night. At that time against \evil forces\. l · truly allowed to continue until the end there was a Film Haps Which ran believe that your idealism is of a r~el, since this is a more films twice •a week for a total of misplaced but, in any case,. :no convenient alternative than four performances. The films amount of ideals can c.ornpe:nsate stopping t~e showing to adjust themselves were selectee from th.e for sorely unprofessional. a.-td th.e film· and very dregs of all available· plainly BAD\journalis~. · 4. A~ inferior print to_ begin material and one was likely to _ Smcere:ly, with. \JOE\ is a fine example. It have seen any given fihn on T.V. . _ • Mar~ Utn!UJ, was a very worn, \cull\ . print, a week earlier or a few days later. Co-Cha1rman of F1}_111 l:bps with numerous scratches on the And yet I suppose I sl)ould picture and sound track. One · mention that this program, feeble * * * * would get !better re_sults on a as it was was still infinitely To the Editor: . Kenner give-a-show projector. preferable 'to the nearly ~on- ~n~ ca!l ~nl? agr~e ~ith yoll.r \The question is \What price, existent one which preceded It. I editorial md1ctmg Film Haps f<>r entertainment?\ A dollar? N 0 • I suppose I should also mention the dollar admission f~e! a fl!!e urge that portion of the student that people patronized this l>ent solely to~~rd~ _giVI~~ the body that -considers it an .affront program nonethel~ss. Yo~ ~ee, stu(jen~ t~e pnv·d~~e ()-f to their intelligence such a shame poor as it was, this orgamzatwn .a.ttendmg Its presentations. ln to boycott further showings of still had the right idea and that p:oint of fact, however, to attend Ji'ilut Hap$, The profit motive per was simply to bring films to a Film · Haps hap is not a say, that underlies Film Hitps is Union's ca111pus. · J}:rivilege, or even a pleas)lre, ~ut . not wrong, but profit made when Four years ago I was among a burden - a burden ~I:I..JCh quality is consistently, flaunted the audience at these films a~d·l begins at the dollar admtss.1on (thro~gh a rathe.r \slick\ dissatisfied with what was bemg and extends, as those who have presentation) is not justifiable. shown, I attempted, along with a not yet attended any films {IJut The .final question one must pose few friends, to improve Film pian to do so soon) should know,. to Film Haps is \What ate you Haps. Unfortunately, no one :t<J the presentation of the film. giving us in return?\ . seemed to be interested \n what I itself. . Daniel J. Valenti, '74 had to say. For your One can expect t.he followi11g information, Mr. Bain, I even 1t a Film Haps showmg: approached the president of the student body, the Tax Committee, and the editor of Concordiensis with the very same idea you forward in your editorial. At that time, the 1,miv.ers~l response was, \Why try to spoil a good thing?\ Well, if Film Haps could be called a good thing then, it certainly can be called that now. In the three years during which l have participated ·in the organization, I h~ve trie~, al'?n.g with my partners, to ~xh1b1t superior film!t, both recent and classic, with more showings on more evenings. All these improvements were instituted, I might add, despite technical and financial snags of all kinds, vandalism and theft, and in spite of betrayals on the part of both administration and students such as yourself. Yes Mr. Bain, I do consider your editorial a betrayal, primarily because .you took neither the time nor the trouble to investigate any of the facts co~ceming Film Haps. You mentioned, for instance, that U. Mass. charges only 5Qq; for their films. Did it ever occur to you that a school of that size has a tremendously larger available audience. (By the way. Albany State, which also has a significantly larger audience, charges $1.00 for their films.) Then, you naively profer a solution to a problem that exists only in your opinion without firs~ considering that we ourselves had suggested that very plan· in the past. Finally, you foolishly compare our organization with activities and clubs with which we have nothing in common. Film Haps cannot function on enthusiasm alone those invelved have assumed a financial and legal responsibility that no member of any other l activity need do, On the contrary, our organization depends upo~ inte_r~st, knowledge, expenence, tr.ammg, and, more than anything else, endless patience in the face of slander and stupidity. Finally, we alone.pmong all. the ~ctiv~ties you mention,are entirely mdep~ndent. 1 Not only do we not receive any school subsidy, but, ill addition, ~ we pay rent to the school for the room that we occupy and the equipment we use. Do yon, dear , editor, reimburse the school for Staines Superb A.t C·off-eehouse In between Staines' two sets, by LOUIS BARASH \- Hershal Raff,. accompanied by 'This past Friday night, . I~ill jay Rosenberg, played several Staines, 'Yho uses an upsi~e !)Opular songs. They went ' down gmtar, played to an through a good number of ~ overflow crowd at the mrrently familiar numbers, with coffeehouse in Old Chapel. 30 ngs by Bob Dylan, Leon Staines played a fine set, R.ussell, and The Band. including pop, folk, ~nd cou~try the thing that impressed me and western music. Stames the most about Friday's rnixed his own music with soine coffeehouse was the fact that it of his personal favorites. . offered a place for students to While Staines was. playin~· I enjoy themselves. The free coffee noticed that he was usmg a g:u\tW was pretty bad; a number. of with the strings in reverse or<!e~. people were playing handball The reason that he plays thr:s with the donuts, but still about way, he said, is because he ~augiJ.t 250 people showed up. himself how to play usmg a . The reason for this is the righ..thanded guitar (Bill is · a atmosphere of the coffeehouse. It lefty). He played that way for a is, to put it simply, friendly. One year before anyone told h1m thai shows up at a coffeehouse he was doing something wrong. knowing that a good ·number of Right side up or upside down <>fher people will be there, just to the music was excellent. The have a good time. This is highlight of the evening was the sornetbing that is not found often Staines Concerto in E for enough on campus. Trumpet. Originally performed This coming Friday, Bob hy the Philadelphia Philorganic: Bernhardt will be playing the Orchestra, Staines performed the coffeehouse. If anyone is entire piece solo. This entai-led i.nterested in. having a ·godd time playing guitar while vocalizing Frrday at 8:30 I suggest they the part of the trumpet. It- was W()p into Old Chapel. · simply super. - - - - ANOTHER FESTIVAL PRODUCT/OM .:.. Procol H·arum -- --Steeleye Span-~ also Tir .. ::Na•No_g THURS. NOV. 2 7 P.M. (one show only) PALACE THEA. TRE, ALBANY limited but respectable numbeN:.f.advallce tick~ts at 5 4.50 \When these are gone, aU ticketsa-1 5 5.50 no ha§sle with reserved seats, :sit 'Witere you like TICKETS NOW ON SALE AT: Parace Theatre box office Van Curlers - Alb:Rny Music Shack - 1roy Stereo-Sound ..... Scllelll(lctady J\{usic Bar - Lat1Jalll1 Crystal Mansion - ~ar-atoga i , . Sat. 10-9 p.m. Sun. 2 p.rn.-8 p.m. 1 Dave'-s· Mens Sbop 453 State St. (downtown Schenectady) 1 . · your commodious office spqce? · .. J . J_ ' : I ~...~~-------------- ... I· ; t . r . ~ ' ! ')··· :\.' ' f .

tor he od in a h, er is J e e ... ~. . . . \' CONCORD/EN SIS, Tuesday. October 24, 1972 .3 Have any gripes? Ar~ you tired of bitching to closed ears? The Committee on Student Life wants to hear your complaints, grievances, and suggestions! We want to present your views to the Tru'stees and tl::te Administration. S~e: Leslie Herman, 352 Fox, 346- 9692 Valerie Hoffman, 214 Richmond, 346-9848 Jerry Jaiven, Sigma Chi, 346- 9582 Judy Male, 352 Fox, 346-9692 Robin Waring, 312~ Fox, 393- 1640 * * * * The Eastern New York Section - American Chemical Society's October meeting presen~s Professor G. B. Kistiakowsky of Harvard University discussing ''Science and Public Affairs\. Open to the public, Wednesday, October 25, 1972, 8:00 p.m., ButterfielQ Hall, Room- 204, * * * * BLJTHER • • • • • Tickets for the Golden Night of Rock and Roll, starring Chubby Checker a11d - the D~ifters, are on sale now in the Office of Student Activities. The concert will be on Homecoming Weekend, Saturday, Nov. 4th. Tickets have been selling very fast and it is likely that there will be no tickets left Jo be sold at the d'oor for students. Get them now! * * * * The concert series, starting Thursday night is free to Union stugents. All you have to do is show your student lD card .for admission. The concert (eatmes the Deller Consort, vocal chamber music of the Renaissance and Baroque eras. * * * * The Water Polo Club will play in the Hamilton Invitational' on Octo'ber 29. All members of the squad are expected at practice The Union College thi~ week. A scrimmage with Experimental Theatre, also R. P.l. is scheduled for known as Cabaret, needs staff in Wednesday the 25th. all capacities, including waiters * ' * * * and waitresses, cooks, artists, LOST: A wallet, belonging to designers, actors, directors, and Michael Scott of Schuyler Pren people to work on. the publicity, ·School, in the Coffeehouse or prop, light, and set crews. If you Rathskellar, Friday, Oct. 20. If are interested, or if you have found, please return to Becky another skill or idea you'd like to Grant in 405 North. contribute, please sign up on the * * * * Cabaret board in the Green The Department of English Room at the Nott Memorial. cordially invites all English and * * * * I.D. English Majors to a party Department of Biological on· Th.ursday, October 26th in Sciences Seminar Announcement: Humanities Faculty Lounge, 4-6 Wednes.day, October 25, at p.m. 4:30 p.m., in Bailey Hall, Room, *. * * * 314. , ATTENTION SENIORS! \Phosphorometric and other Yearbook portraits will be taken spectroscopic. techniques for the in the lower lounge of Hale measurement of carbamate House from Monday, Nov. 6, to formation by C02 uptake of_ Friday? Nov. lO. Sign up for alpha amino acids - a model your sitting at Student Activities sysiem for herheglobin - C02- in Old Gym Hall. A $3. sitting formation.\ fee is required at th.e time the Professor Robert W. Schaefer portrait is taken. To insure that of.the Chemistry Department. your picture is in the yearbook * * * * sign up today. .- ..... -... '!lor Now Open 7 daysfweek The .. Brothers III under- \Union\ management This Week's Special: Ladies Night- Thurs~,, Drinks 50¢ · 8·10 for all Union coeds 1679 VanVranken Ave. 374-5679 2blocks up I MEALS-·· II a.m.-12 M~dnightl Assorted Variety Of r : Hot & Cold Sandwiches \ At College Prices ~.\ SOUR HO·URS Friday-Starting at 6 and after Union football games A RELAXED RUSTIC ATMOSPHERE WHERE PEOPLE CAN BE THEMSELVES EXCELLENT DARK DRAUGHT ON TA:P. ·, • ,> ' • 'I) ,· ' '~- i . The PYE Club will hold their regular weekly ·· meeting this Wednesday at 7:30 p.m. in the basement of Silliman Hall. All new members are welcome and a:ll old members are urged to attend. * * * * .Book store contest winning no. is 6922. * * if< * Reverend William Sloane Coffin will speak in Memorial Chapel Wednesday, October 25 at 4:00 p.m. Rev. Coffin has just returned from a trip to North Vietnam where he helped to free several POW's. He is well known for his indictment with Doctor Spock for encouraging .draft resistance. Everyone is welcome and admission is free! * * * * The Social Action Committee wishes to sponsor speakers of a variety of pGlitical views. If you kiiow of a speaker you would like to see at Union please let us kf!ow - call 399-3560 or leave a notice in the SAC office. * * * * Temple Gates of Heaven invites the college community to the Twelfth Annual Lula Field Memorial Lecture on Sunday, October 29, at 8:00· p.m. Meyer Levin, distinguished novelist, author of The Settlers, The Old' Bunch, and Compulsion, will speak on \What To Do About the Arab and Jew.\ The Temple is located at Ashmore Ave. and Eastern Pkwy. m Schenectady. Hillel hopes that many members of the college community will attend this fine evening. * * * * Anyone interested in playing at the Finals Freebie Coffeehouse should contact Jeff at .370-0911· or Becky at 370-0414. * * * * The USMC has impounded the materiel, crew, and cast of The Brig. They have been placed in solit;iry confinement, pending courts martial. As a. result, the- Commandant, USMC, has asked this newspaper to report to the civilian public that the Wednesday night performance of said play has been cancelled. * * * * Dave .Mason Robert Sharlet, a member : of the Political SCience . , l)epartment at Union CoUege · 'since 1967, h.as been I appointed to a five-year term . as chairman of that· • ' departmen~. , Ql(llllltw,l'flW._.I After 4 songs Mason really got moving, changing to electric guitar and bringing _the Chapel crowd to its feet with an old rocking Traffic tune, ''You Can All Join In.\ He kept up the pace with \Headkeeper \Shouldn't Have Took More Than You Gave,\ and \Only You Know and I Know,\. featuring bi'eaks in which the band members would trade solo riffs. . Shadet, an.. associate- ' professor, is a specialist in ' Soviet law and directs the · ' Comparative Communist Studies program. A native of Boston, Mass., r he is a Brandeis University grad11ate and received his doctorate from Indiana . University. He is the author of numerous articles and essays . in his specialty, and he is a co- author ·of \The Soviet L-egal . . System and Arms lnspectic;m,\ : published recently by Praeger.' Thwsday evening, Oct. 31 9 · at 7:30 in Old Chapel, the · Political Forum will present • Charles P. Henderson, Jr; as . the organization's first speaker of t,Jle academic year. Henderson, who is Assistant Dean of the. Chapel .. at PriJlceton University, has · beeome an ~xp·ert on the , religious and ethi.eal 'backgrounds of major ' : American political figures. · His searching ex~i~.,t.ty.-,cQf. President Nixon's., religiosity, a book entitled ''The Nixon · Theology\ has been described by a reviewer as \essential reading for aU responsible citizens.\ In comparing the religious dimensions of the two Presidential candidates, Henderson has written that , McGovern, tho .. gh he bas · discarded the fundamentalism The group was called back with a raving ovation upon completing a standard 60 minute .set, and joined by Jimmy and Vella who opened the evening's concert, did two splendid rockers, Mason's patented winner, ''Feelin' Alright?,\ and \Gimme Some Lovin',\ t1. classic which hasn't lost a bit of its .power. Another standing ovation followed, and the. audience cheered for a full five minutes before Mason came out alone and quieted the mood with a pretty acoustic number. In all, the only disappointment was that the show passed by too quickly. Jimmy and Vella played before Mason, brandishing acoustic ·~.guitars and singing a sort of gospel-soul-folk type of music. It was a good performance that picked up more with each number. Jimmy ranged high and low, often joining Vella, who had a strong gospel voice, in solid harmonies. Their last number entitled \Rain was ~xceptional. It was a bluesy song, and Vella got off into a soulful vocal part with real feeling. * * \' * of llis minister father,.· _ This . Friday, Oct. 27, the i maintains a strong belief in Union College Coffeehouse will the gospel and the use of· present Bob Bernhardt and John 1 ethics to promote social Bridger at 8:30 p.m. in the Old ! justice. Henderson states that • Chapel. Admission is 50¢, coffee . Nix_on represents the priest- · · and donuts are free .. figure who reassures society, while McGovern is the Viiilfl!. . prophet who attacks the ills of society. The ·topic of Henderson's Dave's Mens Shop DIAMOND ENGAGEMENT talk Thursday is \Nixon and & WEDDIN(; RIN(;s McGovern: Saints or Sinners?\ 453 State St. 3,000 ring selection!\ iii all ''\'~·f;~~~~~~;;~~~~~;;(~d~o;w;n~t~o;w;n~S;c~h~en~e;c~t-~a~d~y~) ~ 6 sly.es at 50% discount to students, staff, and faculty. BUJ Moffet't's Li'quor S'tore direct from leading manufacturer ~and SAVE! •h carat $179, ~ carat only $299. For fre~ color 1505 VanVranken Ave. Schenectady, New York 12308 folder write: Box 42, l'anwood, N J 3 -ADD TO YOUR EDUCATION- '• . 0702 ' .. RESEARCH MATERIALS All Topics Send for your descriptive, up, to-date, 128-page, mail order catalog of 2,300 · quality- research papr.rs. Enclose $1.00 to covei' postage and handling. RESEARCH UNLIMITED 519 GLENROCK AVE., SUITE 203 LOS ANGELES, CALIF. 90024 (213) 477-8474 • 477-5493 \We need a local salesman\ PROCTOR'S ·w:.ll~ STAT! ST .. SCHENECTADY Oct. 25-31 Play it Again, Sam Last of the Red Hot Lovers Nov. 1-8 Hammer Chato's Land Nov. 4 &5 Matinee Only! Godzilla v. Smog Monster Nov. 8-15 Big Store Day at the Circus . I r . - Ll:.'\ARN MUREABOUTWINES-. Join Our WINE TAST/Nv· CLUB No Admissiwls Charge- No RequiremenJ!>' Each monlh \c select a. different uinc to he tc,tcd. I here\ a wrd dc\:nhmg the \\inc in great detail 'o ~ou cun leurn ahmit it. On th\ curd there i\ <t piL·turc of the label. ~o you can remember the uinc m the lutur<' to rmprc\'> ~our date \\hen you dine out or simply want u good bottle of '.line. Albany State U. Concert Board WELCOMES & GUEST ARTISTS, CHARLIE SMITH BLUES BAND and ..• $ 3 0 0 Public Admi~sion (Proof of 18 yrs. or 1 College ID Required! OCTOBER 28th Albany State U. Gym 9:00P.M. TICKETS .AVAil~tn.E AT Albany St9te- University · Campus Conl~t; Albany ~ Yahoo'~; Deja Vu. llo!f Cur!llt'S, Dr~rnl:l' Snund. Schcn~ttcdy • Stereo Sound: Oromo Sound, Troy • 'l'h& Music Shack. Pitl!.ll~'d • New Wave Retord~t; lo!hom • Ape• M\alt 8ar !LolhRm Shopping Cenuul, GIC!n' Fall1 ·The-Record Rack Ptoducod in Cooperation with NATIONAL STUDENT PRODUCTIONS. INC. (212) JU 6·0909

4 Tuesday, October 24, /972 Garnet Gridders Regain X-Country Drops Two . Dutchman's ·Shoes, 38-21 by MAR.K W. MINDEL The Dutchman's Shoes Trophy, emblematic lof victory in the traditional RPJ.U nion classic, wasn't the only thing returned to the Union Cpllege football team, Saturday in their 38·21 thumping of the Engineers. Back was the drive of Dave Rearic, who sat out most of last year, injured, and who sat out most of the first two games this year, benched, quarterbacking his team to five touchdowns with astute play·calling and flawless execution. Back was the excellence of Bob Mitchell, not only at split-end where he caught Rearic's TD aerial, but at his kicking game, where he lofted an amazing, recor.d~shattering 51 yard field goa) along with converting. :five extra pqlnt attempts, •. ~n.q blasting 'several long, arching pro- type kickoffs. · · Back were the talents · of Johnstown ace Jack Siedlecki, the c:aptain of the freshman team four years ago who transferred to Miami of Ohio only to find his way back to Union; Siedlecki ·scored three touchdowns Saturday, along with playing his usual strong line backing game. And back were the circus leaps and catches of Jerry Cuffey 1 who showed much of the amazing talents last year as wjdelreceiver, which he displayed Saturday in intercepting three passes and returning one \35 yards down the sideline, dodging tacklers with the ball raised triumphantly in the air. · But it was the total team effort which handed RPI its 53rd loss in the 70 games played since · 1886. The defense caused seven Engineer turnovers, and the offense totaled more points than it had in all its previous games. Union opened up a 21-0 half- time lead, and upped it seven more te 28-0 with ten minutes left in the third quarter to put the game away early. The first score came after a key Dave Ricks interception ended an early R'PI scoring threat, with Rearic marching, 80 yards in eleven plays and sending Siedlecki in ori a seven yard scamper. 18 yard run for the second score of the game, leaving a trail of would-be Engineer tacklers in his wake. Two plays later, captain Tom Anacker intercepted deep in RPI territory and a pass interference call on the next play gave Union the ball on the two. Siedlecki slashed two yards for the third Dutchman score in a span of 6 minutes and 14 seconds. Rearic: engineered another crucial drive to start the second half, marching the Garnet 86 yards in 5:18 culminated with a perfect Rearic to Mitchell 16 yarder for the score. With the game nearly iced Everling went to his substitutes and RPI scored three times, two coming on long bombs against an i.nexperienced secondary. ·uiiion' scored late in the last '~iifihg} lflfollowing Cuffey's dazzling interception return, sending Siedlecki over from inches away. Fullback Rick Jaszczak had hulled through heavy traffic on three previous carries. Jaszczak's superb fake which made the belly series go all day, allowed Siedlecki to dance in untouched. With 2:38 left to go, Mitchell came out to attempt his fourth field goal of the day. He had missed previously from 46, 52, and 53 yards out. But this one sailed long and high inching its way over the right side of the goal posts to set off a chain- reaction explosion. Everling leaped onto the field along with several of the team members to hoist an exuberant Mitchell into the air. The shot, not only Mitchell's career best as well as the longest in UQion College history, was also Bob~s ninth 3-pointer at Union, breaking the previous career record of eight. Mitch has been scouted by about nine N.F.L. teams but modestly admits he needs plenty of practice before he could be considered for·pro ball. Statistically, Union was outgained by RPI 327 to 263, but most of th~ Engineer's yardage cairie-'against substitutes after the game was over for all intent. Union also had good field position most of the day and needed relatively little yardage to score. by ALIAS SMITH for 89 yards, Siedleki 14 for 34 Union•s cross country team feU ·and Jaszczak lO for 25. victim last Saturday to ·the red· Westbrook led the Union shirted engineers from RPI. The receivers also, catching two for Garnet were· again led by fresh· 44 ya.rds. phenom, Steve Jones fr0m, This coming Saturday the Saratoga, who took the. ·Garnet travel to Geneva to face individual honor&. Steve clocked. ence-beaten Hobart. The 29:30 over Union's 5.6 mile home Statesmen lost a spine-tingler this •course. He. was followed by Tim . weekend to undefeated Lambert McCabe in fiftll place, Crawford Bowl champions Alfred, 38-35. Cutts in sixth, Bill Galarneau in The game, billed as the 'Little ninth, and Jim Smith in eleventh. . Super-Bowl East' ended with The Union harriers, who an~ l:lobart, on the Alfred fifteen theoretically a lot stronger than yard~line, having a poor snap on these results indicate, left a gap an attempted field goal for the tie. of 43 seconds between their first Varsity Socc-er by STEW ABRAMSON Union's soc~er team raised its season record to 3-3 by defeating· Albany State and R PI last week. It was encouraging to ·see the. team turn in two impressive showings after playing inconsistently during their three ga:me losing streak. For the first time this year, the team played together as a unit. The 1-0 RPI game was played here at Daley Field on Saturday: Describing the game, Coach MacMurray said, \We outplayed them up and down the field.\ Union controlled the ball throughout the game, although they managed only one goal. Freshman Craig Jeffries scored the only goa:l of the game at the 3 1 minute mark of the first half, with an assist going to halfback Jim Simon. Simon . dribbled down the right side of the field and sent a fine chip shot across to Jeffries. who headed the ball into the net. Jeffries also scored two goals against Albany. and · second men, allowing the slide rules to slip in three runners in top positions. There were some bright notes,.however. Cutts ran his best race of the young season, finishing in Union's third spot, while .Bill Galarneau improved his best time by 18 seconds. The 24-32 loss was the culmination of a disappointing . week for the thinclads. Wednesday, they met Middlebury at home, and went down ·in glaring defeat, '19-42 .. Again, it Was Jones who led the way with a third place finish, followed by McCabe in sixth, and Smith in 13th. · Prof. Bick, who took over the coaching duties from school trainer Sammy Uzuner on Wednesday, felt that the late start and poor scheduling might have something to do with his ream's poor showing thus far. The Harriers did not open their season until October 14, and' their entir.e season consists of two to three meets per week for three weeks. Bick, who is on sabbatical leave for the year, is a runner himself. He was a member of Union's five man delegation to the Boston marathon last April,. and may decide to work out with his runners as he did once last· week. The Dutchmen will hit the . road for their next three meets, traveling to Oneonta next ·Tuesday, and Hamilton Friday. The RPI defensive unit stymied all other thrusts by the Garnet front line, which was in charge of. play throughout most of the game. Jim Sletteland was back in goal fqr Union after a two game absence. The fullbacks kept the RPI attack away from the Garnet goal most of the time, but when shots did get through to Sletteland, he handled them perfectly, often coming up with the big save. photo by Scott Burns Craig Jeffries, who headed ·in Union's only goal in a welJ.-p/ayed 1-0 victory over the RPI Engineers·. The next home game will be Saturday afteinoon at 2:30 , Rugby Victories Minutes later a pQor Engineer punt gave Union the ball on the visitor's 38. Westbrook, who had made several key third down runs and a great catch of a third ... down Rearic toss in the first Individually, Rearic completed >t--------.-....-------\\\' Because of circumstances beyond their control, the Union College Rugby Club won their first game in recent years. The scheduled opponents, Colgate, had to forfeit the game due to circumstances beyond their control. Union heads to Colgate for a tournament on November 4th. With a little luck (and a reprieve from higher up) they will be able to play in their own tournament. The· next Union home game is November lith. scoring series, made an incredible six passes for 96 yards and one TD. Westbrook carried 12 times .r------------~-----------, Discover the World on Your SEMESTER AT SEA Sails each September & February Combine accredited study with educational stops in Africa, Aus- tralasia and the Orient. Over 5000 \Students fron1450 campuses have already experienced this interna- tional program. A wide range of financial aid is available. Write how for free catalog: WCA, Chapman College, Box CC40, Orange, Cal. 92666 BOULEVARD BOWL 1315 Erie Blvd. 40 AMF BOWLING LANES 374-4171 Bowl for Health We are looking for a student to sell our 8 track tapes. We are respected throughout the country as ' producing a premium product. Have·. your . own. thriving business. We carry almost· 500 selections of an· types of music. Soul, Pop, Oldies. Country and Western, Popular, Etc. If you are interested call Melody Recordings Inc .. (201) 575- 0430; ask for either Mr. Jonas or Mr. ·Reid. FOR LIQUOR AND. WINE Try · Jake L . t . , 1ps e1n s 4(;4 State Stre't FR4·1838 AMERI~A!/ ~BURE~,jj. OF THE~'ARTS -- ~cvresents.CHICA G Tuesday, Oct. 3·1 · Wedttesda}-, Nov. 1 · . , :.&:OO]>.m. . ,R#:t~'tm~ .ALL SEAtS RESER v'ED.:. · '-'14.00 - ss.oo - ss .. so S6.SO : .;:TICKETS AVAILABLE: .f._P.klJNilO~',.'t! Jl;!l. t.a~cs· a~~--~) JM]SiiC· ~: TJiO.t·~· . . VkN CvatLitisMUste,. ..... . . ~~- .. ' .. - ···~·:· .. - - Scher the su~ robbetif Wednet Schenec offic:e h his arte: suspect Thes but not same Cone ore charged the sec misdemc entering dormito Union< of2 and Vince office ~ In forma the wa: Securi1 presente by stud suspect corlfessi' in an Kleinka1 Two·, to iden individu seen in North ir of Oct William: the Nor iqentifie he stop~ same me The l which ·l arrest)w who f, produce_ he stop] for iden· the nam Director investig~ He cc the sus investig~ intervie\ at his General Durin Kleinka1 he is < grata 01 due to nature c not tell was beir suspect entered \Lookin denied and offi being in William: Mr. that he for a 1 phantorr theactic Dave North C October of the p campus stepped a breatr a.m.j.he. from V Terrace· This I of the stoppea of Nortl ID card.

founded at. Union College in 1877 Vol~ 102, No. 11 Friday, O~tober 27, 1972 20 cents .. ,, Cops ·seize Suspected Thief Professors Support McGovern by GEORGE BAIN lb..<: person replied that he was Schenectady police arrested not a Union student and claimed the suspect in the dormitory he w~s a University of Rochester robberies of two weeks ago on student looking for a friend. Wednesday morning. The When Williams pressed him Schenectady District Attorney's furtller, the person produc!;!d his office had issued a warrant for New York State Operator•s his arrest on October 19, and the License, which identified him as suspect is now awaiting trial. a Sar.at<>ga County resident, The suspect- an area resident Rathei than · subdue the but not a college student and the pers()n, Williams let him proceed same person described in on towards Nott Street and, Concorcly two weeks ago - is retaining the name and address charged with criminal trespass ,of on the license, reported the the second degree, a class A information to the Richmond misdemeanor, for .. knowingly secudty <lesk. · en.tering various b.uildings and · .& • M That m..aormat1on put r. dormitories on the groUnds of Klein.lcauf ()n the trail of the The Rev. William .Sloane Co.ff'in photo by Nelson Weil Union College between the hours suspect, ieading to the of 2 and 6 a.m. on October t 2 .\ invest~gation and arrest. The two Vincent Reilly of the· ·DA's coed.s who ideptified office authorized the filing of photographs of the suspect and Information and the issuance of provi<led signed statements for the warrant _after Director of the DA's office also assisted the Security John Kleinkauf inves~igation. Reverend Coffin Speaks on War presented three statements signed :Mr. K..leinka.uf emphasized that by students who had seen the the matter could not have been suspect on campus and the solved without the help of the confessions made by the su_sp~c~ _ students. who observed the. in an interview with Mr. suspe<:.t well en()ugh to identify Kleink~uf. . . pictQres of him and who T:vo c.oeq -Witnesses. were able undertook forcing him to identify ~0 .. ~entlfy photographs of the r himself, \It's nice to have pe9ple mdivtdual ~s the _person they had assume the responsibility ·of a seen i~ the hallways ()f .Fox and citizen,'khe said. by BRIAN LEWIS Wednesday morning William Sloane Coffin held a press ·Conference at the Emmanual Baptist Church on Nott Terrace. It was one of severa(appearances he made in the area under the sponsorship of the Indo-China Peace Campaign. the Schenectady, Albany and Troy Clergy and Laity Concerned, the Capital Area Peace Center, and the Schenectady Inter-faith Community. In the afternoon he spoke at Union College and he was also scheduled to appear at the lrinity Methodist Church in North m the early mornmg hou~s He further commented that the of .. October 12, and David Sec:;urity Department can WJ!hams, a student who :vorks at function effectively in these ~he ~?rth ~ollege secunty desk, matters only if \we have l(!enttfled P.ICtures of the person cooperation in getting a line on he stopped .m front of North that individuals op campus for same montmg. . . . . ulterior motives.\ The key to the mvestlgatlon · which · led to the warrant and arrest 1 was the action of Williams\ who forced the suspect to produce_ a driver's license. when he stopped him and asked him for identification. On the basis of the name on the license, Security Director Kleinkauf launched his investigation. He confirmed the identity of the suspect and climaxed the investigation by arranging to interview the unknowing suspect at his place of employment, General Electric, on October 24. During that interview, Mr. Kleinkauf told the suspe.ct that he is considered persona non grata on the Union campus - due to the - private property nature of the campus - but did not tell him that any legal action was being contemplated. Yet, the suspect did admit to having entered four or . five rooms \Looking for a friend.\ He denied having .stolen anything and offered no explanation for being in stocking feet at the time Williams stopped hir:q. Mr. Kleinkalif has stressed that he would still be searching for a nameless person ~ \a phantom\ ~ had it not been for the action of Williams. Dave Williams was on duty at North College on the morning of October 12 and had a description of the prowler who had been on campus that night. When .he ste.pped out ·Of the front 'doot for a breath of air shortly before f · a.m.j .he. noticed a person coming from West College, over the Terrace Wall, towards North. This person fit the description of the prowler, and Williams stoppea him on the walk in front of North 7md asked him for his ID card. Ban ProPosed on Campus Cars A proposal to eliminate - Traffic wauld be allowed to pass automobiles from the center of behind Carnegie Hall from campus will be presented to the Alexander Lane, but the road All College Senate at its meeting along the west \Side of the next Tuesday by Prof. C.W. building would ·be blocked off Huntley, the chairman of the eliminating any through traffice. Conunittee on Development. \Gate (3), at the fieldhouse Tae proposal reached its bridge. This gate would eliminate present form after three of Prof. traffic across the fieldhouse Harl()w•s students in Ciyil bridge. Engineering studied the matter \Gate (4), on Library Lane and drew up the following between the Security Office and recommendations, which the • Memorial Chapel. This gate Com:n1ittee on Development · would eliminate traffic passing revie~ed and then voted to : from Library Lane to South recotnmend to tl1eCollege Senate .. Lane or eventually Terrace Lane Prof. Huntley has commented South. that the proposal \had its genesis \Gate ( 5), between Lamont in maJ19 discussions of what House and the tennis courts. This might be done to enhance the gate would eliminate traffic ap]learance of the central pa~ of passing from Alexander Lane to the campus and at the same t1me South Lane, but would be reduce the danger to students located to allow access to East and visitors who walk about the Lane from Alexander Lane. campus.\ .. At each gate, there should be 1'1l:e proposal reads as follows: a map directing visi~ors to the \We propose to install five campus where to go. electrically operated gates ·at a \The gates are designed so they projected total installation cost open after a card or key is used of $3,000 per gate or a total to activate the mechanism. This expense of $15,000, The gates procedure is used tq gain access would control traffic in the to the central campus. On fo1lo\Wing ways.. leaving, an electric eye in the gate \Gate { 1k on Terrace Lam; mechanism opens the gate when North behind Richmond. This a car approaches allowing it to gate would cut off traffic just pass through. This procedure past the opening to the lower would be modified at gate (4) at campus on Tertace Lane North. the fieldhouse bridge. At this \Gate (2), between Carnegie gate, card operation of the gate Hall and the Science 1 Center. This would be required in both gate w.ould <:Ut off. traffic op. directions. N ottb Larie as it runs past the east side ()[ Carnegie Hall. Continued on Page 4 Albany that evening. Coffin is a member of the Committee of Liaison with Families of Servicemen Retained in North Vietnam and . has recently returned from North Vietnam with three American P.O.W.'s. He is also Chaplin at Yale U ni versi ty. As he walked into the room for the press conference, Coffin seemed fresh, relaxed, and ready for the long day ahead of him. He shook hands with reporters, introducing himself as Bill Coffin. The informal atmosphere remained even as Coffin was strapped into a microphone and the bright T.V. lights were turned on. Coffin first made a brief statement about the war, in which he said that he felt that for the first time the peace talks in Paris were actually substantive and that as a result of these talks the American people will finally come to see that President Thieu of South Vietnam is the only real stumbling block. While he did feel that real progress was being made in Paris, he was quick to accuse the Nixon administration of playing politics with the talks. He said his feeling was that there probably will not be a settlement made before the November 7 election but that Nixon will tell the American people that negotiations are in a very sensitive stage and that it is the wrong time to rock the boat by not re-electing the President. Coffin said that Cyrus Vance had told him that what is being talked about now · in Paris is basically a solution that Nixon refused to consider four years ago. Coffin accused Nixon of using the P.O.W. issue as an excuse to . prolong the war. He said that as other reasons for the war got weaker and weaker Nixon latched onto the P.O.W. issue by dropping dark hints that if we were to get out of Vit<tnam, our P.O.W.s might never be released. At one point Nixon claimed that French prisoners had not yet been released, which brought an immediate denial from the French government saying that every French P.O.W. was released within 90 days of the · cease fire. When asked if he supported ·George McGovern, Coffin Continued on Page 7 \. 52 Sign Ad by PH~L ALCABES Several area newspapers carry an advertisement this week sponsored by the Schenectady County McGovern for President Committee. The ad consists of names of people who were willing to donate five dollars to the campaign, so that the newspaper space might be paid for; it appears in the Schenectady Gazette, the Times-Union, and Kite, and may run in other publications as well. Among the names are those of 52 members of the Union College faculty. Their support for McGovern was solicited by Professor Patrick Kilburn of the English Department. He spent about 10 days inquiring of those faculty members from whom he felt a favorable response could be expected. Of these people, Professor Kilburn estimated, about 90% were willing to contribute the five dollars. The 52 names constitute approximately one-third of the total Union faculty. Professor Kilburn expressed surprise at the percentage of favorable responses, and at the large number of people willing to pay the money. He did not. however, feel that the showing at Union was indicative of college faculties across the country, or that it was even necessarily representative of opinions here at Union; not everyone was asked, and refusing did not mean that one intended to vote for President Nixon. Kilburn believes, in fact, that the nationwide polls taken up to now are misrepresenting true popular sentiment. Kilburn was uncertain as to whether there will be any concerte<l follow-up action to the advertisement on the part of the faculty. He noted, though, that a major portion of the finances for McGovern's campaign has come through individual contributions. as possibly best exemplified by this five dollars-a-head donation. Regardless of how local campaign efforts go, however. Professor Kilburn remarked that everybody who has registered must be \exhorted to vote.\ The list of faculty members. with the heading of \Concerned citizens supporting the Candidacy of George McGovern for President of the United States:\ William W. Thomas Michael Shinagel Helen Testroet Samson O.A. Ullmann Maria T. Astiz Jan K. Ludwig William J. Daniels Manfred Jonas Norman V. Walbek Robert V. Wells Rober.t Sharlet Thomas R. Kershner Barbara Susan La Barba David Gerhan Alan Roberts Carl Niemeyer Ruth Stevenson Raquel Vinick John Girdner Barry K. Smith Dolores D. Bittleman Herbert E. Wylen Erik Ransen Isabella Marinoff :a. Alan Nelson Continued on Page 4

'\'- ... ·-.'r'- .. \ CONCOROIENSIS founded at Union CoMlece in 1877 Editor-iH-Chicf ............................. George Rain News Editor ........................... , .... Tim ('ain Associate Editor. ........................ Matthew Swartz Managing Editors ........................ Rita Morandi . Jim U<~stenherg h:ature~ Lditor ........................... ;\!Reisch Sport~ Lditor.. .............................. Bruce Batchdder Photo Editor;, .............................. l.es Kernan Jeff Weilhurg Hu~inc\;, Manager ........................ Michael J. Hurley ,\.'atiHnal 1\d\LTti~in!! ................... Stephen Kelly S ~... · ··. · · M:'k 8 ·t. in LIIJ~Uip!Hlll.'> ............... : ................ 1 e erns e 1.:--ecuti\e l.ditor~ ........................ Peter R·ickerman Ray Faught Hill Erichson Jim Smith Urian Lewis Stewart Abramson Andy Richman Scott Reiter Malcolm Snowden Nelson Wei! Larry Wharton Hilly DeHear Scott Burns Louis S. Snitkoff CON CORDY STAFF Louis Barash Pat Bohen Mitch l.ui:Jart Steven Kni'kauer Judy Dein Marty Sherman Woody Guthcrz if'om Conley Don H'amcrmun Fred Lucas Boh Sax Dchbic Glasser Francesco Isgro Phyllis R. Edelman Gail Goodman Robert Shugoll Mark Mindel Bill West Ron Aines P!)il Alcabes Oavc Strom Woody Lauer Doug Carpenter Oa\lid Wagenknecht · . Andy 'Pearce One~Way Street If you arc struck by the number of times that George McGovern's name is mentioned in this issue of Concordy, then perhaps you arc also wondering why RiChard Nixon's name is not mentioned more often. l do too. But a Repmblican organization on campus has not materialized. a development. I find surprising. In the spring of 1970, following the invasion of Cambodia, Silliman Hall became the headquarters for UNDO, a national draft resistance organization, and Union· students marche~ to (ieneral Electric to protest GE's involvement in the war. At the same time. those students who supported the new American actions formed the Student Committee for an Alternative Vicv.point. Political activism was at its apogee. And wbcn I visited TriQity College seven weeks ago, Nixon supporters already had a functioning campus organi/ation. with katlets in every mailbox and meeting announcements posted around campus. The MfCGovern / forces were also in husiness. I expected a similar situation here at. Union. oul such has not hcen the case. Only those people who f'tnor McGovern han: come forward; political activism this l~tll has only been At a most crucia·l time in the history of the still- developing nation known by many expletives but commonly referred to as the United States, the American polity finds that they have a real choice in setting the parameters that will govern the actions of that nation d'uring the next fo11r years. The past four years have seen .an American president move American troops into Cambodia without congressional authorization, without a declaration of war; the harbor of Hai Phong was mined without authorization from Congress or a declaration of war. The war in the air over Vietnam has steadily increased untH it gained the distinction of being the largest air bombardment in t.he history of the human race .. . an air war that not only employs weapons designed to destroy buildings, to hinder ca~go transport, but a'lso to kill and rilain people, mostly civHians left in the villages as the· men are off fighting for what they believe to be their nation's soveFeignty, During the Nixon administration the j.tmta in Greece became an \acceptable\ evil and a: trade imbalance not seen in· recent American history,.a reality. The number of the unemployed has risen from three to six million. Four students ar:e dead, kiHed in a massacre at Kent State University, and I. T. T. avoids ari anti~trust suit by aHedgedly offering Nixon's Justice Department a 400,000 dollar bribe. Caustic attacks on the freedom of the press spread like rays · from the focus · of the administration in the early years, Spiro Agnew. W~ see Democratic Headquarters bugged by seve,ral aides of' the Coimnjttee lo Re-.elect the P.resident, one of whom he1d the position of Chief of Security for that committee and was in charge of the security at the Republican convention in Miami Beach. If Richa-rd Nixon were running for the office of President unopposed, it would, we feel, be an unconscionable act to cast a ballot in his name. Yet he is not running unoppqsed, there is an alternative . George. McGovern stands for tax: . reforril, spending at home, and cuts in the military budg~t that would not undermine national' security but make us.stronger 'by bettering the very fqhric of the nation :i·tl·its life at home. He stands !or truth in Government, freedom of expression, an:d,~·ahove aU else, peace, both at home and throughout Hie world: Perhaps the best argument for the election of George. McGovern is the one proffered by Fath~r James Murphy. If McGovern is elected there will b~ people alive during the next four years ·wno .wo.utq be dead if Nixon were in offici!. For the ~ake i>f these lives, and out of a deep sense of -resp0t'lsi'bil~ty towards what this na·tion can be, we, as memBers M the editorial board of Concotdiensis, . urge- • t.11e- e1ectipn of George McGovern as the next· ~resident of the .United States on Novernbe.r 7: · · / Alan M. Reisch~ George S. Bain J. Bruce Batchelder Timothy Cain Rita Morandi Ma.tthew.Swartz Pet~r :Bickerman Super-regular Strikes Again by MARTY SHERMAN gained a remarkable ability to but Felix became a silent Faster than molasses on a hot disguise himself as any man, advocate for the mediocre. The summer day, 01ore powerful than woman, or child by reading older he got the ITI.ore fanatic his Bernie Carman, a,ble to lea.p Vogue, Seventeen, and the desire to· be mediocre became. mounds of Jell-0 in a single NationaJ Enquirer. Throughout After much thought, Fe'lix bound, look, all around us where his early years Super-Regular decided to dedicate his life t0 mediocrity flourishes, it's a dean, went under the name of Felix attaining within the realm of it's a maintenance man,- no, it's Warsh. felix was a plain child human endeavor, new heights of Super-Regular. Yes, it's Super- who enjoyed hard-boiled eggs for undistinguished behavior. Regular, familiar visitor on the lunch. Teachers seldom noticed He decided to go underground, Union campus who came to him, those that did assumed he and, using his ability to disguise Schenectady with powers and was a good boy. And every two himself, seek responsible abilities about the same as mortar months he helped his father dean positions· where he would be free men.· Super-Regular, who can't out the garage. to act. Felix took the name change the course of mighty All outward manifestations led Super-Regular for two . reasons. rivers or bend steel with his bare those around Felix to believe I) he hoped to be just that, and hands. And who, disguised as that he was normal in every 2) his bowels moved like clock- anyone he chooses, fights the respect. They were almost work. And so Super-Regular, in never-ending battle for red tape, correct, for as Felix grew up his the guise of a Shell executive, boiled chicken, and the Union views on social and political flew to Albany, and then way. behavior began to develop, it Schenectady, and decided this This is the first of several became apparent that his heart town had great potential in installments giving a life-like (which was the size of his fist) almost no respect. Schenectady it account of the adventures of was with those. members of was then. Union College was Super-Regular. By way of society who· were in no way where he would begin. a one-way street. In an effort to allov. students to express their feelings on the election (did you knov. there are four candidates'!). Concordy will run a 'straw poll' next issue. Pkase ca~t a ])allot if you desire. hut onl) one. To he \accurate.\ this poll cannot haw a stuffed ballot hox. gsh intro~uction, Super-Regular outstanding. No one knows why, Continued on Page 6 ·~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~ Letters To the Editor: laughting raucously. when the WelL we've done It again. f'he film suddenly disappears for ten !Inion student body. with the minutes. E\·ents like that make hardchitting editorial stat I of me feel go;Jd hecause they Concordy in the forefront as remind me that I'm superior to usual. has managed to technology. and \\ithout them manufacture the most inane FH. would just he another controversy since the great 1970 Proetor's. Besides. the films arc Weingold~Krise hate debates. good and the people are nice. It's t refer. needless to say. to the comfortable. current \l.et's Dump On Film A:-: for making Film Haps a Haps\ campaign. I realize that hy student activity (i.e. tax- writing this I ha\e allowed myself supp('lrter). I'm sure that no one to he suckt.:d into the game. But on the T<t:\ Conimittee thought rather than go in.to the of that one first. They have implications of \\hy the forces of enough problems distributing Mass F1 ustration and Good ha1e what funds then: are to descended on so ea~y and organi7ations who want t\\·ice as defenseless a target as Film much as exists without needing Hap~. imtead of some more .another open palm to deal with. profound and less aecessihk e\il. Unless mavhe vou want \'our I'd like to respond on a DJOl'L' gut student acti\ities. tax raised -next level. war'!'!'! I like Film Haps. Yes. the\· · Running a film nine times is a ha\·e technical hassles: as l think terrihle repetitive job. and as far about it. they're kind of as I'm concerned. Film Haps endearing. Part of the show at deserws anvthing thev can get. Film Hap:o. i' ~omehody yelling '\Sound!\ . or ··F()cus!\ or ContinuedonPage.7 Concordicnsis 1' fluhli,hc·d e1en lllc'MLI\ ;1nd 1 n<i<ll dtt1i111! the \'h<>uJ· IL'<Ir ,.,,·.:pt. dunn)! c'\illlllll<!lion and 1 acario11 pc~rullb h\ rile~ 'llluc·l;t hod.\ ol l';1ion Colkpc·. Sehenc·ctad\. '\ \. \attonal .lcflc·lll\111)! rc•ptc•wntulllc'. '\atit>ll<ll Fdttcattonal ·\d1 t'rl r-inv ~en it't'. lur ( ·, >lkge l'uhfl,hc·\ I{ l'jll'c'>t'llta 111 ,., \attonal 1ducaflon.rl '\dlt'rti'lll)!Sc·nln·. Inc..\.\.(', 1 tlttotial Ol!it't'. Old Ci~n1. l'ntt>ll Collc·ge. l'uhl1cat1on Offil'c•. 1 he .lc'l\j,ft Wotld l'uh1icatinn,, 771 St<IIL' Street. '><:hc'llc'datll. '\. \. 12307, .146-2.156 lmnc·d 111 the• SdJL•nt•ctadl po't <>illl·c· \' Sc•eond C'l;t,, Mui1 M<~tlt•r. ~lllhn1pt1on 20 n·nt> a mp~. 5H ;I ~t·ar ddt1er~d an~ 1\h~rc in the t'n1kd Stal<''· fkadltne lor allc·\p~. 1\llich mu,t he t~pcd .md cdouhfco-,r<~c·ed. \7 p.m .. mt Munda~ and lllllr~da~ <II the Concord) nlli.:e. ancnc• Old ('hurd Ollke tl'!~phoiw numhc•r\ 370-6155. hut the ollit•t• j, <>Ill~ in u,,. <>II Mouua~ un·d rhur~da~ nivhh. hn ull c·ditmia f lllattc·r,, call t1w c•dihH-111-l'llld at .W3. 1640: lor inlormution call Student 1kt11itic' Ollic·c at .170-61 IK. . ·'(- ,, .. , ADVICE FROM A (ATERP\ LLAR J ~ ... ' ' • ~\~t (:J.I)''., 1' l:' 1'1 t .. T Ed,\\ It s~ lotc I pict1 hist1 that didt the} \' out~ insic typ~ the on: a V< Tha Col IllS II I any grUJ neg: R.~ The I hall abo leas star On oth1 A.1 talk ]\ Sai Ho· dis~ Ow loo N A over to Wed one aero were Revc Kan Derr Phil Cou Moe Ket! Dep K on t to ~ He unet Jant has mea Arne He· fron wou

urity urity •of an Yet ive. but the in of utd '6:( .&f .. CONCORDIEli.S.iS,- Friday. October 27, 1972 . . . . . . Ethics In Business - Discussion to be Held Gerry Dwyer and Mr. Goemaat's masterpiece photo by Jeff Weilburg Edwards .House Sign . . that i~ 'Ya~ a leg~! holi4aY., but . that : se.emed no.t· .to' bave any effect on his stumbling and grumbling about the mail service. There is a new sign outside of Edwards House, on Lenox Road. It ~ays :'Edwards\. That makes a lot-ofsense. l asked Gerry about the sign. He replied \What new sign?'' It was hanging right over his head, so I showed it to him. He was amazed. He had'n~'t noticed it yet. by OEBBIE GLASSE~ How oft;;:n is it that one bothers to stop and consider the results of one's work? Has one ever really analyzed one's job from an ethical'standpoint? VirtUally every profession imaginable must confront certain ethical problems in its day-to-da;y routine. Too often dees an individual make a hasty decision on some issue .affecting the rights and freedom of another human being. It is these commonly overlooked ethical questions that the Union CoUege Fall Le.cture- Discussion Series has set out to examine a.nd debate. Last Tuesday night, W.H. Milton, a Schenectady hanker, and Rev. Lloyd Duren, manager of Better Neig,hi;>oi:hoods, Inc., spoke about their jobs and the ethics involved. in the·m. Mr. Milto11, · of the Schenectady Trust Co., told of the responsibilitie's of his job as a trust -l:>anker-. He emphasized the unetliical confidentiality that previously existed in trust systems. Until about six years ago, it would not have been known · that ove,· $458 bitlion dollars in some 3400 banks was controlled by trusts. Since then, such confidentiality has becm greatly questioned, and federal regulations. have resulted. Banks now publish annual reports, including all investment responsibilities; they cannot vote · shares to their owm company; and, there are rules concerning :voting of proxies. In this way, much of the \unethicalness\ of .trust banking · has been done away with: · But Mr. Milton's final ethical comment seemed somewhat oversimplified. He stated that any time he is faced with a customer's economic loss, the matter is always resolved in the favor of the customer, and he .is never confronted with any ethical problems. Is he justified in concluding that he never must confront an ethical problem, from his particularly simple assertion? Is this not· the type of oversimplification that this series is attempting to reveal? Next, Rev. Duren gave a detajlesf ~cc,0qnt of the Arn~ric:an housing system. He (eels it is extremely unjUst and' unethical. · hurting almost all Classes ·of people (except, of course, the wealthy). The reverend believes that the corruption in the housing system lies at the base of our society and that only great social changes can reform the system. \The total metropolitan I w.ent up .there to take .some pictures- and to find out the history of the sign. The · things that went on duri-ng my visit didn't make too much sense, but they made tne think. When I got there, no one was outside; so I went in. No one was insiqe -eith.er. But I heard a typewriter clacking, so I followed the clacks to a door and knocked on it. The. clacking stopped, and a voice from inside said: \Yeah?\ That meant· this was Union College, and that l should come inside. Before Gerry could tell me to \A.T.R.A.\, Chris Fink came by. He didn't know much about the sign either, but promised to find out. Steering Committee It seems, according to Chris, that when Mr. Harold Goemaat helped his son Tom move into the house, he noticed an old sign, and felt that there was room for improvement. He took it upon himself to make a new sign. The Minutes of the Committee meeting of 23, 1972: Steering Discussion folio wed October concerning the membership of I asked the guy if he knew anything about the new sign. He grunted an answer in the negative. and said \I dunno, as d' R.A. \ and started to type again. The conversation was over. I met some other guys in the hall. They didn't know anything about the sign, but they were at least civil when they gave the standard reply: ''Ask The R.A.\ On my way upstairs, I met some other people who told me to A.T.R.A., They also told me to talk with Chris Fink. Neither Chris nor John De Saix (the R.A.) were in. However, as I was leaving in disgust, I met my friend Gerry Dwyer stum-bling around outside, looking for his mail. I told him He made the sign at his own expense and hung it himself earlier this month. The sign itself is beautiful. But I find the fact that Mr. Goemaat made it by himself and had the pleasure of . bettering a poor situation is truly the nicest part of a confusing affair. 1 Yet the world still has a way to go. It would seem that the old sign, by virtue of its non-hanging state, would seem to attest to the progress of humanity. Chris had wanted me to take a picture of this important artifact, fot the history of humanity's advance. Yet we found, after some scrouging arou}ld in the ru hbish heap outside .the door, that the old sign was gone: the ma:id had already thrown it in the garbage. The meeting was convened in Hu. I 15 at 9:15 p.m. -by President Tony Faga. The motion . was made to accept the minutes of the last meeting. It was seconded and voted upon unanimously. Next on the agenda was the ratification of the Public Interest Research Group. Susan Grelick spoke on its behalf. After discussion. however, the members present of_ PI RG withdrew their constitution in order to make certain revisions. Pat Wardell made the motion to establish an.. Ad Hoc committee to study the actions and activities df the student clubs on campus. The purpose of this committee would be to define what a club at Union College is and to determine which clubs sliould be abolished. The motion was seconded and voted upon unanimously. McGovern Teach~ln Draws Capacity Crowd def~nse budget- ~without . putting. ~outh should not ask. only for the COUOtty jn 11, state of dit.nge.r. Ideals but that. they._shou!d try as by DON HAMERMAN A McGovern Teach-In drew over fifty McGovern supporters to the Humanities building Wednesday night. It was only one of about 300 Teach-Ins across the country. Speaking were Professor Amolel Seiken, Reverend James Murphy, Neal Kane; a delegate to the Natibnal Democratic Convention, and Phil Bratnober, the Schenectady County McGovern Coordinator. Moderating was Professor Torn Kershner, of the Economics Department bere at Union. Kershner spoke first, touching on the Nixon record as compared to his 1968 campaign promises. He cited figures on unemployment, noting that since January, 1969, unemployment has risen from 3.5%, which means that some two million Ameticans are now without jobs. He then proceeded to cite figures from a McGovern ·· plan that would cut 32 billion from the ' . ~ 1 ' •· I '·' Professor Arnold Seiken spoke ~uch }s poss1ble to reac? _the second, commenting that he td_eals. . Murphy a_lso exlub1ted believed a second Nixon term h1s d_tsmay w_1th YO;'th, would, \ ... turn the country to companng them wtth the ~1dd_le h, class viewed by De Tocquevtlle m m~e~l Kane who has been saying that they don't want .to working · for' · the McGovern \sacrifice their comfort.\ ~he candidacy for one and one half Reverend co~clude? by saymg S _ followed and devoted that the electiOn ttns year was a year ' f ''L'f . d D h\ the majority 6f his address to the matter o 1 e. an · eat · Thomas Eagleton affair. A The coordmator for the frustrated politico in the Schenectady ar.ea, Phil audience vehemently objected to Bratnober, ';as the fmal speaker. Kane's position and a lively Bra~nober s message was discussion ensued. Moderator succmcl, he made _a plea for Kershner, seeing the conflict as people to canva.ss m the ~t. an academic matter .• quelled the_ Pleasant area tomorrow mornmg 'disurbance' and then introduced (Saturday}. . . Father Murphy. The Tea_ch-In ~rew a capacity Murphy voiced his frustration crowd. Th~s certainly shows that with part of today's youth, the orgamzers got what . they particularly th 0 se of college a-ge: ~xpected,. maybe more. However,. Reacting to a comment from one m actuality, only 2.5% of the of the two non~McGovern .student body bothered to come listetiets in the audience that, \I and hear about George can't trust Nixon but 1 can't trust McGovern .. Father Muprhy 1s McGovern,\ he said that the apparently nght. this Ad Hoc Committee. An amendment to the motion was proposed stating that the head of the Student Tax Committee should be a me~ber of the committee. The amendment was voted upon unanimously. The Steer i n g Com m itt e e t hen appointed Don Foley, Bruce Goldberg. Bun Guida, Art Just and Pat Wardell to this Ad Hoc Committee. The meeting was adjourned at I 0:00 p.m. The next Steering Committee meeting will be held on November I, 1972 at 9:15 p.m. in the Beta Theta Pi ,lounge. Glee Club by JAMES ROSTENBERG On Monday evening, November sixth, the Union College and Mount Holyoke College Glee Clubs will present Joseph Haydn's The Creation in the Union College Memorial Chapel. The program, which begins at eight o'clock, will be under the direction of Mount Holyoke's Catharine Melhorn and Hugh Allen Wilson of Union. The Creation was· written by Haydn in the late eighteenth century. The texf of the work, based on Genesis and on Milton's Paridise Lost, begins with the establishment of heaven and earth, and describes the events of the world's formation. concluding with the creation of man and woman. Singing the roles of the three archangels, Gabriel, Raphael and Uriel, wlll be Jane Bryden, soprano, Keith Kibler, bass and Douglas Perry, tenor. The voices will be accompanied by the twenty-eight .member Valley Festival Orchestra. Admission to the performance is two dollars for adults and one ·dollar for outside students. Union students will be admitted free of charge. Included in the 1972-73 calendar of the Union College Glee Club is a February performance of Honegger's King David with Wheaton College of Massachusetts, and a concert in May at Alice Tully Hall in Lincoln Center. community should take · responsibility for the whole metropolitan system, for the health. of their own community and not just for the help of the 'lower-middle income~ families,\ is his belief. In contrast to Mr. Milton, who concluded his talk with a profoUnd ethical statement, Rev. Duren opened his talk with his own ethical standards. He stated that the discussion and study of ethical systems (generalizations and theory) are distractions from simple integrity. The only way to \do ethics'' is with individual cases, not general theories. Once again, it seems that the speakers' ethical statement has ignored the crux of his talk. As Rev. Duren's ultimate housing solution involves a cure of vast social change, this seems to bring. up one of the largest ethical questions - that of society vs. the individual. Why not drop by SSO 1'6-- next Tuesday evening for the. next session in this series of c xcellent programs? T. M. Linville, past president of the National Society of Professional Engineers, and scientist H.C. Pollock will speak. Letters To the Editor: I was dismayed by the ready ac~eptance given that popular American fairy tale '.'the f!!elting pot\ in Tim Cain's Concordy article last 1 uesday. The immigrants from Southern and Eastern Europe did in fact ,suffer widespread discrimination· and arbitrary treatment as should have been evident to anyone who has taken as many U.S. history courses here as Tim. For example, during the First World War Polish Americans constituted 4% of the American population yet suffered l2r;( of its casualties; many colleges and universities put restrictions on the enrollment of Catholics and Jews until after the Second World War; etc., etc. Residue ~f such past discrimination still ex is t s; the rc are disproportionately few member~ of certain white ethnic group~ such as the Italian, or Polish- Americans in most governmental agencies; corporation leadership positions, or university faculties. I wouldn't be too surprised to find that certain of these groups are underrepresented in our own student body. Whether these conditions extend into the political arena is an open question; there has been little systematic inquiry into this topic and whaf little is available should have caused concern. The Studies of Patricia Sexton and her husband, for example. lit \Education and Income\ and \Blue Collar and Hard-hat\ uncovered evidence of continued prejudice in the political field against some of the white ethnic groups. While certainly experiencing nowhere near the degree of arbitrary treatment suffered by the blacks, to lump these groups with the other more thoroughly assimilated white groups in the <;:onsideration of quotas, \affirmative action,\ or whatever- you-want-to~call-it, may stymie the progress these groups have ·, made toward gaining a more equitable share of society's benefits, and result in the long overdue correction of the ' inequities suffered by the Blacks and Chicano's being made at their expense, tather than at the expense of those groups Who now hold a dispropo~tionate share of the benefits. Steve Za:IDga; '7j , ..

4 CONCORDIENSJS, Friday, October 27, 1972 Profs For McGovern Continuedfrom.Page 1 Neal W. Allen Harry L. Gr~cey William B. Bristol Peter T obi essen W. M. Schwarz V. E. Pilcher H. B. Zimmerman Arnold Seiken William Ling Charles D. Swartz Edwin AS. Lewis Bernard R. Carman Patrick Allen William M. Murphy. Donald R. ·Thurston David Stineback James Underwood Martin Lichterman Alfred T. Goble Willard F. Enteman Patrick E. Kilburn Peter A. Prosper, Jr. Willard D. Roth Rev. James Murphy Ken C. Kusterer P. Frederick Hartwig Miriam M. Conable Ban on. Cars Continued from Page 1 \The cards or keys required to open the gates Would, hopefully, only be given to maintenance personnel, campus police, and those others who would require access to the campus using an automobile or truck. The gates are designelf with easily and inexpensively replaced breakaway arms so emergency vehicles coal!, if necessary, drive through them without damaging the actual mechanism. A new roof for the entrance to the Dutchmen's Rathskeller was completed this week. . ' I . John Prine Realist by MA1THJ!:WSWARTZ The. secret be?ind a. good record review, not meaning to draw gu1delmes here, 1s not m the choosing of iyrics to illustrate twisted an~ misleading conclusions~ but in listening to the album, in its entir~ty, ap.d simpiy assessing both your mental and physical reactwn. lf an album has caused worry, concern, or aWakened certai.fl negativ~ en:otions, ~t has prompted an intense and complex chem~eaJ reaction m the llstener. The recordet has pulled on his audience's guts. Such is the case with John Prine's First. . Kris Kristofferson {of course you've heard of him) described his fmn encounter with Prine as what \it must have been like stumbling onto Dylan when he first busted onto the Village scene; One of those rare, .great times when it all seems wovth it, like when the Vision would rise upon Blake's 'weary eyes, even in this Dungeon, and this Iron Mill.\' I won'tfeign familiarity with William Blake, but I have read some of his Romantic poetry. Kr.istofferson is not praising photo by Les Kernan ~<.0'>~~~~~~~~· Record Re,view Prine, he's enshrining hitn. The hell with what he says about Dylan! I really tab exception to this e))'orbitant praise. fie's not immortaL In fact, Prine's g!!nre is ·one of realism, not .precognition, liS was Blake's, nnd he nev~r alludes to being a \visionary.\ Prine sings country-western IT\USJC about some of the ugly facts that exist in an . ~gly world; but dammit they're all real. On one side, the first, he sm~s about all of the following; getting stoned on a dreary day, ~avmg some fun b1:1t all is lost in the end when he is busted by a Jl:l~ge named Hoffman; a naive serviceman falling in love with a stnpper and she ultimate.ly carrying the answer to the· soldier's existence conflict; the terrible and terrifyinglbnelirtess hmught o:n. by old age; the return of an overseas war veteran addicted to morphine; the paradise a child found in the blue hills of Kentucky as related throug~ that child's younger-year memories: now having to be c_ontent Wlth only lhese memories due .to coal company destruction. Many of you might remember Sam Stone, the song about the war veteran w~ich was used to introduce the Il:()O.pJm, news. report by last year's Tuesday night Out for Lunch Mountain ~h<Jw on WR(JC. I do. In fact, King still answers to that name. Try Jt. J. G eils Band by RQBERT SHUGOLL The J. Geils Band is a fine blues-rock group, pmbably the best to come out of the East Coast (excluding the Allman Brothers) in the present rock era. They're a Boston-based unit whose break came when Billy Graham made them one of his pet groups at Fillmore East. \Looki&g For a Love'' present good fast rockers, returning to the mood set on Side One. Only three of the eight numbers were written by Geils personally, but the band still _puts out an original, raunchy sound, through use of their grand musical ta:Jents. The album is very good, particularly for people who like music they can't possibly sit still for. The group always sounds like they're playing at a climax, as is revealed by the lyrics in \Hard Drivin' Man,\ \driving just as hard as I can.\ The Social Committee decided against having Prine here ·last ye.ar. Not that that's such a big deaL Playboy's next issue after the rejection ran a feature on Prine in their '\On the Scene\· column. Not that that's such a big deal. The issue is that the music brought here. for the \studenl body'' reflects th.e tastes of a small percentage of us. The Vast spectrum of music, or entertainment for'that matter, goes beyond white, teeny·bop, electric gwitar players with long h~ir and beards. Pri~e's first .album is a classic which belongs in the company 'of Nashville Skyhne,.not Dave Mason. · · .. · e ·.'\ ~ • .... ... ... - - -- ... -- '\In conjunction 'with these physical features. we also recommend that during the 10 miR.Utes of class· changing (i.e.; ~ :20-8:30, 9:20-9:30. I 0:20-10:30. 11:20-11:30 and 12:20-12:30) all traffic in the central campus should stop where it is until the changing is over. This policy should be instituted immediately. J. Geils' third Atlantic album, entitled \Full House\ (SD7241), is now in circulation. The disc was recorded live last April at the Cinderella Ballroom in Detroit, featuring ·eight tunes previously recorded on the.ir two studio L~'s. Most of the music was also heard at Union last fall when the band played a free Orientation concert while in the midst of their rising popularity. \'Full House\ has one distinct advantage over their prior albums and that's raw power. The first tune, \First I Look at .the Purse,\ is typical of most of the artists. Drummer Stephen Jo. Bladd opens the song with a fast- moving roll and seems to keep pushing the group's tempo throughout. We also encounter the coarse vocals of Peter Wolf on this number. Wolfs rough voice fits well with this brand of music, but he tries to make too Steinmetz Honored At- Lecture :frat Party byJUDY DEIN On goes the mask, slipping snugly into place. Smile, fr:own, wink, giggl~. lt fits tightly - \After studying the traffic problem on the campus, we would also like to make the following proposals: In his lifetime Charles Proteus Steinmetz built a working electric car, designed a magnetic arc lamp used in street lights, acted as chief engineer at G.E., organized and headed the Electrical Engineering Department at Union College, and wrote ten textbooks. The nran was a genius, and so he has been honored every year since his death; on Tuesday evening the 43rd Annual Steinmetz Memorial Lecture was held in Memorial Chapel, in the hopes of enlightening the public about Steinmetz ,the man. With the help of tape recordings of his voice, slides of his person, and. recollections by . his follower, Harold Bibber: his student, Emil 'The road along the side of Alpha Delta Phi should be eliminated and a new one constructed either between that fraternity and Smith House or Sigma Phi and Smith House. much of a spectacle of himself, putting on a Mick Jagger-Iike sensuousness that doesn't come off well. You can just picture him squealing and leaping around the stage. .. A parking lot should be constructed between Wells House and McKean House instead of the proposed temporary lot near Lamont House. Along with this. the lot bounded by Chi Psi, Psi Upsilon and Lamont House should be repaired and enlarged including the destruction of the Ketz garage.\ BLITHER ATTENTION SENIORS! Yearbook portraits will be taken in the lower lounge of Hale House from Monday, Nov. 6, to Friday, Nov. 10. Sign up for your sitting at Student Activities in Old Gym Hall. A $3. sitting fee is required at the time the portrait is taken. To insure that your picture is in the yearbook sign up today. * * * * This Friday. Oct. 27. the Union Col1ege Coffeehouse will present Bob Bernhardt and John Bridger at 8:30 p.m. in the Old Chapel. Admission is 50¢, coffee and donuts are free. * * * * Mrs. Marra's special desk blotter/ calenders (blue this year) may be picked up now at Student Activities. * * * * The next three cuts feature the band's two most talented musicians, Jimmy Geils and Magic Dick. Geils plays a mean lead guitar on \Homework and Magic Dick displays his ha.rp prowes~ on \Pack Fair and Square\ and \Whammer Jammer.\ the latter of which is completely keyed on his harp. Magic' Dick is one of the best around, rtinning from high to low riffs with dazzling speed while losing no precision. On the first side's ' last song, \Hard Drivin' Man,\ the whole group gets a chance at lead jams and the piano-organist Seth Justman and bass player Daniel Klein are excellent, showing how tightly they Work with the others. Remscheid, and .. son,\ Jos,eph Hayden, the audience came to understand a little about the German hunchback. . The second side starts off with the J. Geils Band's best blues piece, ··serves You Right to Suffer,\ the longest number on the disc at 9!;2 minutes. It's not quite as good as · their studio version, the band sounding a little sloppy and Wolfs vocals too ornate, not getting into the blues the way he can and ought to. But still it's a great John Lee Hooker tune to start off with, and an enjoyable cha11ge of pace from the rest of the wild, compelling music. The last two cuts, \Cruisin' For a Love' 1 artd C.P. Steinmetz immigrated to this country from Germany in 1889; because he was physically deformed the immigration officials nearly sent him back as an undesirable alien. Steinmetz proved his worth to the country very quickly, for within twelve years he had become chief engineer at G.E. and President of rhe American Institute of Electrical Engineers. Shortly after moving to Schenectady with General Electric, Steinmetz' life -became entwined with Union and its young men. In his ten y'ears of teaching here at Union, Steinmetz did his best to .. turn out educated men; and not mere trained artisans.\ According' to former aide Emil Remscheid, Steinmetz' lectures were so vigorous that they actuaily made the students want to study. Though time may have exaggetated that memory. Steinmetz was obviously a well- loved professor; the Phi Gamma Delta Fraternity made him an honorary brother soori after he began giving those famous lectures. Jos~ph Hayden, Steinmetz' adopted son, remembers his father as \a big brother Who happened to have a little more money than the rest of us kids\; others know him through his famous soap-bubble lectures. But everyone, including those of us who \met him for the first time on Tuesday night\ is agreed on one fact: Steinmetz was a genius · who deserves to have buildings harned after him, and memorial lectures in his honor once a year. time to go. · And so I marched bravely into my first ·frat party, by in,vitation only. At'the· door I' was given the once-over, ~nd led to the 'punch' bowl. Pure alcohol (it tasted like wood alcohol). . · I looked around; the.re· was no one l knew. If only I could see some familiar face! Oh -· si-nile, here com~s someone. Hl1' He's drunk. TheY're all druiik. That seems to be the only way they can speak to each other. , . , · Noise, there's lots of noise. The. girls are busy straightening their skirts, ,the guys, eyeing· \the hemlines. It had been so much fun in the dorm ~ getting Continued on Page.,6 . Chubby Checker will appear in· Memorial Chapel Saturday night; November 4th, as part of a series of li'lter·Fraternity Council concerts. Tickets on sale at SAO. 11 tl '() tl q Y• s f~ a b. B c .. Sl a e1 n b ir w p st H 0 w a \] IV I:; tl st

its ng n g Gridders _Prep For Statesmen -The. Union College defense has · been tough against the run all fall but now after five t~sts comes the finaJ exam as the Dutchmen line attempts to cohtr<Jl the uation's rushing leader Hobart, Saturday at Geneva. The Statesmen are awesome offensively as · quarterback Bob Raleigh directs the wishbone offense to better than 400 y~rds a game on the .gro.und, tnore rushing· per contest than Union has alloy.red opponents in- total . this season .. ·Halfback Don Aleksiewicz is a shoe~in All-Ameri~an an'd the best running back the Dutchmen will face. all year. The second best . ·may be his mate at halfback, ·freshman Rick K0walski, ·while a contender for :tnird spot· is . Hobart fullback Jerry Hanley. · Quar~ack Raleigh !las re- instituted the .pass as an offensive threat after a year'S> a'bsence and 'Occasionally ·reminds opponents that .he wa$ a r~Wllar Win,g-T quarterback at Hobart for two years before the wishbone. Sprinter ·Kim FFisinger is a favorite target. The Statesmen defense, suspect a year ago, has matured and led by linebacker Tom Korn and end Bi!l Blynt rates a; solid measure Sports Hutldle of the kudos for Hobart's 5-l rect>rd to ~date. !he Union forward line is healthy and need only recall the 97 rushing plays Hobart ran a year ago at Schenectady for inspiration. Ends Chadie Weekes and Bill Spelman and tackle Don Rupsis lead the forward wall, while All-East Tom Anacker directs the defense from his middle linebacker spot. In the secondary, Jerry Cuffey has the hot hand, with three interceptions in the win over RPI to go with the two he picked off the previous week against Rochester. Senior safety Mike Raab was · injured against the Engineers and is expected to miss this week. His replacement, sophomore Steve Andrews, had an interception again.st RPI. After a rocky starf this season, Union continues to improve offensively as quarterback Dave Rearic becomes more' assertive. Sopliomore R~n Westbrook is the top threat in the biickfield, both as a runner and as a receiver .. The Dutchman kicking game is· also a threat, based on a college record 51 yard field goal against RPI by senior Bob ·Mitchell. He had a 41 yarder against Rochester the previous week. World Series ....; - - ~~ • >/(' -· by BUFFALO The biggest farce in organized sports is now over. The longest and most boring season has ~nded. With the World ·Series now terminated, the 1972 ba!!eball season becomes history. Charley Finley's .A's defe~ted the Big Red Machine in ·seven games which S!lW (l one run games, good pitching, great. work bY the umpires and lousy announcing on tele\'ision by the one and only Curt Gowdy. I rank . Curt .second behind only Chris ~chenkel as the worst sports ann~mn~er in history. What Curt '(<nows' about announcing can be engraved 9n the head of a pin. I don't claim to be any better, but ' he is paid to do it. When is he going to learn how to call a game? both teams in number of hits. Defensively, third baseman Dennis Menke was brilliant. He turned many possible infield bits into sure outs with his rifle arm. The star of the seriesl though, had to be Oakland catcher Gene Tenace. He personally wrecked the Reds with four nomers and a double among his hits .. The four homers ties a major league record, held by Babe Ruth, Duke · Snider and Hank Bauer. That is pretty big company for a relatively unknown player. Tenace also drove in 9 of the 15 Oakland runs, which is an incredible feat in itself. Charley Finley · might well be 11sking himself \Who the hell is Reggie Jackson?'' Friday,. October 27, 1972 5 Garnet goalie Jim Sletteland, who has been playing excellent soccer as of late. photo by Les Kernan Soccer In Retrospect Editor's Note: Even though this story is about last week's game against RPI, I thin\ ~t is · important in· what it has to say. .It is not only a story about a week-old ·soc~er game but a story about a new Union soccer team. Please read it and think about it. by FRED LUCAS . Last Saturday a transformed Union.· soccer team decisively \whomped\ a talented RPI team, l-0. Although low scoring, this game was anything but unexciting, Talent-wise, tbe two teams . were very nearly equal. The difference was teamwork; Union had it, and their newly · instituted .sweeper-defense made very sure RPI never had a chance to get it. RPI took the field obviously confident of victory. They were loos~ in their warm-ups, and seemed relaxed as they set Up to begin the contest.· Union, while remaining fairly calm for all appearances, had a definite no- nonsense air about them, and a seething energy that foretold anything but \easy score\ for RPI. After an initial flurry of nervous energy, Union settled down to a composed, precise type of play · that was to characterize their effort for the entire game. With few exceptions, nearly every attack · RPI was· able to mount was d¢cimated by what is best described as a full-field press . Many RPI 'drives· were turned around by the Union forwards before the RPI halfbacks ever got a chance to touch the ball. Cniig Jeffries was amazing with his cat-like steals of R PI's defense, a talent which~ when combined with his ·great dribbling and shooting skills make him a constant scoring 1 threat. When R PI managed to get the ball to their halfbacks and mid-field, the Union \halves\ more often than not succeeded in crippling the fledgling drives which, with two or three exceptions, were soundly crun~hed by the defense. Probably the most exciting action of the game occured in the Union end of the field; when, of course, RPI managed to get the bail this far down the field. The whole defensive unit, fullbacks, sweeper, and goalie, were like a shredding machine, ripping any semblance .ot a smooth RPI drive into little pieces. So devastating was this defense that by the last half of the 2nd period RPI was shooting from outside the entire goal area, a testimony to their grqwing sense of respect for the Union \D\. One major crisis for Union came at the opening of the second period. Union had kept its precision and ·composure throughout the first half, but was obviously tiring towards the end. RPI was down 1-0, and pissed. They were deliberately slow in taking the field, hoping to lure the Union tearn into dropping their guard. With the whistle RPI then tried a charge for a \quickie\ goal, but Union kept its cool and solidly stopped them at mid-field. After some parrying back and forth, Union then drove suddenly back all the way to the R PI goal, narrowly missing a score on a hard but errant shot by halfback Paul Martini. It's hard to say who might have been the best player in the defensive unit. Sandy WildtH (the 1 sweeper) seemed to always be right there when RPI managed to break t~rough the fullback wall Continued on Page 6 ·· The big surprise, though, (although Curt's lack of ability is · no surprise), had to be the Oakland Athletics. They made mincemeat of both Jimmy the Greek and .the Cincinnati Reds. they played the Red's type of game, aggressive. running and hitting. This proved to be the Red)s downfall. The Reds dropped the first two in Cincinnati, won two of three in Oakland and split the last two in Cinci. Their one win at home was the only game where the· margin of victory -was. iii0re than one run. They routed the A's by an 8- by. BILLY DEBEAR J V Soccer Still Undefeated 1 score in a game which saw Johnny Bench finally hit a home run. This game was the only game in which the Oakland ~)itching was· below par. Throughout the playoffs and Series, the Oakland staff, led by Ji111 \Catfish' 1 Hunter and John \Blue Moon' 1 Odotn, featured pinpoint control. Although the Red's pitching was also excellent, their bats left a great deal to be desired. The \Big Three\ (Bench, Tolan, Morgan) couldn't have made a Idttle League team with--the way they were hitting. The only bright spot was Tony fetez, who led trailixig by 22 poip.ts late in the first half, the freshman football team · showed the determination that was necessary to turn a seeming route into an impressive victory. Not losing their composure,. they waited for the right moment to spring the winning rally. Catching the opposition napping, they were able to come up with ample points to take the game away from that \other\ team. And that's exactly what the freshmen did - that is, what the Williams freshmen did. Trailing Union 22- 8, in the fourth period, the home team rallied for 30 points to p.ost a resounding 3-8-22 win, and let Union know how it feels to be the \other\ team in this type of game. For the third straight we~k, Union appeared to be the superior team, only to let all -three gan.es slip away when the o:verall good play could not be sustained for a full 60 minute.~. This week, the team went three quarters before the offense ceased to function and the defense followed suit. The Garnet offense appeared unstoppable in the first half as quarterback Rich Mayell directed two long drives, beth of whi<;h culminated in touchdowns by han~ing off to Bill Karp, Bob Miller, and Jim Collins, and passing to Alan Schur and his running backs, Union was able to open a 14-0 lead, as Karp tallied twice. The defense also contributed six points, as Pete Sherman blocked a Williams punt and Jim Driver ran 20 yards into the end zone ·with the loose ball. Miller's two- point conversion, and a Williams score just before intermission gave Union a 22-8 lead. When the third quarter ended with the scoreboard flashing the same numerals, Union appeared to have a safe 14 point cushion. But, nobody told Williams ... by FRANCESCO et al. Led by sensational superstar k n Denio, the J. V. hooters remained in the unbeaten ranks, l··~ nly team at Union to have the privilege. Last week the young hooters defeated powerful Oneonta 4-2. On Saturday they shut out arch rival RPI 2-0, and two days ago in a very close game, they tied Colgate 2-2. Denio scored all four goals against Oneonta, and both goals against RPI. John Walker and Gary Levy scored the two goals against Colgate, a game which went into overtime. John Denio who might be one of the area's highest scorers, has had an average of 2 goals pet game, or a total of 10 goals so far. The total offensive oUtput so far has been 20 goals, (or 4 tallies per game), which is high considering the nature of the sport. The team's success doesn't belong to John Denio alone. The whole team is to be praised. Goalie Phil DeLuca has allowed only 6 goals, while saving countless shOts. The sturdy defense led by Lee Rimsky and Dave Sanderson has done a tremendous job. The whole offensive line has kept on scoring with about 8 different players getting goals. The only team, that could spoil the chance of an undefeated season is powerful Middleburry, but hopefully the young Dutchmen won't allow that to happen.

CONCORDIENSIS, Friday, Oc:.tober27, 1972 ·Varsitg Soccer Continued from Page 5 a flying header passed their looming goalie for the only ta.lly of the game. This was far and away the best game I have ever seen a Union team play. Especially pleasing was the clean .play Union maintained, even when RPI tried to rough things up. a ~it. The contact which had so marred Union's earlier games seems to ' have vanished. This more than anything else helped to see Union thvough the difficult moments in Saturday's game. and Jim Sletteland was working the whole goal area well in what has to have been his best game this season, with his \psyche-out\ of the RPI penalty shooter in the first perio<! being one of the two big saves of the game for Union. One play late in the second period, however, during the only sustained attac.k RPI was able to put together the whole game, the defense suddenly started to crumble, with both Sandy and Jim out of the play. But just as it looked like an R PI score, Olaf Neilson came ·from nowhere and made a fantastic head'~save over the goal. This play, had .it not been stopped, could have spelled defeat for the Union squad. RPI had substantial momentum going ·into this play, and even after this near miss was able to make three more consecutive drives on the goal. Had this one play been successful, the increase in RPI's mo!pentum such a turn of events would have demanded, coupled with the decrease in spirit the Union team would undoubtedly have suffered J very possibly would have heen enough to give RPl a winning goal. Along with his deft ball handling and play making at center fullback. this save makes me pick Olaf as the best defensive player of the game. Their real tests, however, are · yet to come. A tough Colgate team faces t:hem in an away game next Wednesday, and undefeated . Middlebury comes here next Saturday after ·having beaten Williams. which Union had already lost to, 5·1. In th'eit last two games the\ Union team has made a remarkable come-back, · especially considering they are · mjs~ing five starters. Next year this team could be dynamite, but much hinges on the rest of this season. They are disacwering and nurturing a rene-wed team spirit, but they 'have yet to endure the stress of a deficit situation. Odds are that they wHI lose to Middlebury, and Colgate is always tough. It's easy to be composed and precise, to play team ball, when you're ahead, but when you're behind with time running out, the tendency is to ditch everything and go for broke. If they give into this temptation, they will lose this crucial team spirit, and next year's promise will definitely he lessened. I don't mean to sound like I wa'nt them to lose, but I believe that real team spirit does not depend on winning or losing. The team that can lose and still come off the field as a team, proud of their effort, can't help hut be a winning team in time. The top . two Garnet harriers, Tim McCahe (foreground} and Steve Jones. The next home m.eet is on November 3, against the Ephmen of Williams • College. photo by Les Keman Offen:;ively. Union was very good ta1til the last 4uarter of the field. where the RPI defense. led by the.ir giant goalie. was able to wiggle out of most of the jams the Union !;<.JUad cooked up for them. Union opened up its offensive attack with.a number of probing 'assualts. each turned awa~ with greater and greater difficulty hy the patchy R PI defense. \'lf'inally abuut mid-way through the flht period. Jimmy Simon made one of his many great rasses to Craig. who got off Super-regular ~ . h .J.~-7! Whr are these foolhal/ cheerleaders smilinx? The man on rhe right is no lattKhing maaer. - Actuall.r. Hmrie Zeki:::nak (MiJ and Frallk A/lotca are mere(r trying out the mask F'rankplans on 1rearing on Hal!oll'e£'n. Lib_eral Arts Majors Be a Peace Corps or VISTA volunteer in Africa, Asia or here in the US. Teach English as a foreign lan~uage, or work in Health and agricultural photo by Larry Wharton Pu~ity /sa bella s l~) PH?.~! ••c 'it Accuracy ~ 527 Union St .. · § Schenectady N.Y. Continued from Page 2 The College offered Super- Regular a wide choice of responsible positions. It seemed as if there were many authority figures on campus that dealt with certain aspects of life in an absolute manner. Still, he noted that even though these people could make wide-ranging decision, all of these decisions could be overturned ·by one man. Thus he was assured that even if his actions in one of these sub- positions turned out to be good ones, maybe even beneficial ones, they could be overturned, guaranteeing mediocrity. The first position he undertook would be in the area of housing. It was spring and there were many decisions to be made in that department. One evening, when the campus was cloaked in darkness, Super- Regular stalked Dean Ream, captured her and stuffed a copy of the Rules of Student Life in her mouth. Through the tiny pamphlet he could hear shouts of \\Oh my goodness\ and ··gee whiz. what next?\ Super-Regular spirited her off to a small out-of- the-way bungalow in Latham. Once there, he locked her in a closet with food and drinking water but with no appliances. After hours of preparation Super- \ Regular emerged from that small \ cottage a spitting (bur not cursing) image of '\Dean Ream.\ He returned to Union's campus ready to take on his duties as the infamous Ream, The new day dawned and the , fun began. The first student to visit Super-Regular Ream was in LeVfS Dave's. Mens Shop 453 State St. (downtown Schenectady). RESEARCH MATERIALS All Topics Ser;d tor ybur descnptlve. up-to-date. 128-page, rnail order catalog of 2.300 quality research papers Enclose $1.00 to. cover postage and handling, ' extension programs. Visit the placeme'nt office for more information and an application, or call (212) 264- 7123. § Ph. 370·l300 § WELCOME . § & UNION STUDENTS ~ RESEARCH UNLIMITED 519 GLENROCK AVE., SUIT£ 203 LOS ANGELES, CALIF. 90024 . (213) 477-8474 io 477-5493 \We need a local salesman·: ~~·~0'\><Q>tU a furor over the fact that screens had not been. placed over his 'window all year. '\This morning I woke up with a squim:I staring me in the face,\ he huffed. \That's nothing to worry about,\ said \\Ream\. \\She was just I k . f t ., •• , , oo mg or some nu s. - see, said the bewildered student, head in hands. H.e then shrieked in horror and ran out of the office. Super-Reg11lar smiled: he had succeeded as Dean. Later that day, Dean Alloy, an administrator known for his ability to bring students together, informed \Dean Ream\ of several pending deeisions. Alloy took his leave, and left \Ream\ to ponder what to do. The next day a memo left the office of the Assistant Dean 'of Students. 1) To Maintenance: This summer is to be spen1 destroyinK student property (e,g. refirgerators, furniture). NothinK that belongs to the College sho1,1/d be fixed. 2) To Admissions: Admit many more students than we nPed. We hope to expand on an old student pastime and sec how manv hodies we can /It in a dorm. 3/ To Next Y;ar's Student Body: Good Luck. Author's note: Any resemblance to actual circumstances is intentional. The names have remained the same te protect the innocent. Sorry. PROCTOR'S Wi.?J~ STA!I ST., SCHENECTADY , Oct. 25-31 Play it Again, Sam Last of the Red Hot Lovers Nov. 1-8 Hammer Cha1o's Land Nov; 4 & 5 Matinee Only! Godzilla v. Smog Monster ' Nov. 8-15 . Big Store Day at the Circus Intramural X-Country The First Annual Intramural Cross-Country Run will. be held at lO a.m. Saturday, November II, 1'972. RoJiing 20 mile course around and through the V nion College campus mostly on paved roads and sidewalks. Members of the cross-countrY team will act as officials. Any member of 'the College community may enter except members of any fall . intercollegiate team. Women are especia.Uy urged to participate. Fraternities and other organizations may enter one 3- man team each and results count toward the Intramural Chatnpio·nship {ail three must finish). Please register with LA. Bick, Mathematics Department, Bai-ley Hall. Registrations must be filed by Thursday,· November 9 - NO late registrants will be accepted. Course: Start in ·frMt. of Alumni Gymnasium, run ~ouih ·out gate to Union Ave., turn Iert, go to Lenox Road, left ,again · t'o Nott Street, left down Nott St.-ro, gate opposite Diamante's, · ttirn into campus. Next turn tight at end of stone wail, run ofi. road behind Richmond, then onto Sidewalk in front or' West College. Run through parkin~ lot and out gate onto Sewatd Place. Proceed south on Seward to Union St., turn left on sidewalk and run up, Union St., then continue on Union Ave. sidewalk to Lenox again. Turn left on Lenox and run to gate to Delta Phi parking lot. Follow dirt path to paved road west of soccer field, turn left and proceed to finish line in front of Alumni Gymnasium. ~' - · Check-in will be opeti 'on main floor of Alumni Gym at 9:00 a.m. Contestants · must ,report there and pick up numbers. Sorry, showers will not be available at the gym - there is a home football game that day. * * * * Wrestling Meeting There-will be a meeting for all those persons interested in going out for wrestling on Tuesday, October 3 I, 1972, in the Block U Roorn in the Gymnasium. Frat Party Continued from Page 4 oressed and running up ~ a.n~t down the halls showing ofL; A, once-in-a-lifetime event, ·me- in a' skirt!! · Now nothing · b-u-t embarrassment. Wanaering aimlessly through the crowd. Smiling-mask still fits. Thank heavens I can always hide behind my mask.· I stood and wondered why everyone seemed to be having a good time but me. Then I looked carefully and saw the clusters of girls staring at the .gr.oups of boys. Both staring blankly . I realized as I put my almost- fun drink on the table, th~t it was time to take off my mask, and meet people who can talk without being drunk, and smilf' without practicing. _r DIAMOND ENGAHEMEN'f & WEDDING RINGS 3,000 r-ing sef('ctions in all styles at 50% dio;count tu students, staff, arid faculty. BU} . direct from leading n1anufacturer and SAVE! 1 /2 carat $179, ~-4 carat .only $299. For free color folder ~~rite: Hox 42, i-\anwood N .. l. 07023 •• Dave's. Mens Shop 453 State St. (.downtown Schenectady) ' '. I i 8 t ~ I s c .e I t f a tt t a ~ ~ iJ tl p (J v a 0 n c s fl s s c g fl 1 I< s· • • ·• . E 11 D

ral nd he as re t, '' I 7 CONCORD/EN SIS, Friday. October 27, 1972 ----~~·------------~----~--~--~~~~·---· ~·-·~··--·~·-·----~~--~------------~--~---~---------------------- Kistiakowsky~ On Doom~day Syndrome Chubby Checker At Homecoming by ROBERT RATHBUN Professor G.B. Kistiakowsky, the guest lecturer at the Arnedcan Chemical Society meeting Wednesday night, gave a very well received speech and one that will be remembered for its insight and thought\provocation. A recently retired chemistry professor who taught at Harvard since 193.0, Kistiakowsky t~;fers to himself now as a \scientific politicilln \. He served the Eisenhower Administration as a science advisor and his talk centered upon the relationship existing petween science a:nd public policy. Professor Kistiakowsky began his lecture by noting that in the past ten years. the public's attitude towards scientific technology has changed from trust to a basic mistrust. He attributed this to the ''Doomsday . Syndrome.\ He said that the public no longer believes in the inherent goodness of scientific . technological progress because people believe it t0 be the ·cause · of the great crisis confronting the world today: nucl'ear annihilatio.n, poJiutio.n, ov!;!rpqpulation, depletion of nat,ural resources, etc. This, coupled with decreased federal spending for civilian scientific research and reduction of support ·for the education of students who seek to engage in civilian research, has caused a great decline of youthfuJ researchers entering the fielo. This wHI be disastro~s. Professor Kistiakowsky says. for with sufficient\ time and money and researchers, we can create new technologies that we will ne(!d as we inev-itably use up our ·resources. He is optimistic about the deyelolpment of the nuclear fusion process to supply the energy tbat will be required to create new synthetic materials that will have to replace the resources that we use. The Ptofes.sor's optimism is hinged on one variable: a change in the patterns Qf federal spending. l.f we are ever to create these new, noq-poi!Uting technologies t:hat W\U better the life of tl;t~ individual, the federal gov~rnment wit! have to $ul>sidize private indus trial research; instead of spending rn0st of research money on the development of. weapnnry and other military goods, it must allocate n1ore for civilian scientific research than the meager 13% that it dees now. Without increase~r support from the federal government, the perfection of technologies that can solve the problews confronting society may be unnecessarily delayed and, worse yet, never be realized. Letters Clntinued from !»age 2 This includes.my dollar now and then. l:he stuff about being \'compe'lled\ to go to F.H. when nothing else is happening is bul!shit, pure and simple. It's our shortcoming, not theirs. So if you don't like it, don't go. Can we talk about· something by ANDY RICHMAN Homecoming, the biggest weekend of the fall term, will be highlighted Saturday. November 4th by A Golden Night of Rock 'N' Roll starring \Twisting\ Chubby Checker and the fabulous Drifters. Also appearing will be a third group, Gold Max, which will open the concert. Chubby Checker. one of the biggest names of the early sixties. is known as the orginator of the Twist. His hits include \\The Twist,\ \'Limbo Rock,\ '\T'he Pony,\ etc. Chubby Checker is just coming off a sell-out Rock 'N' Roll revival at Madison Squ<lre Garden. where he co- starred with Chuck Berry. He THE DRIFTERS will be appearing at Union with _R...,. ______ d ... --c---~-,-,------------- his own band. Chubby's style is .. eoe.ren . 0 . '\ similar to that of a night club entertainer, which should be a Speaks 0 W . r refreshing change from the usual .· . n . Q performan~es at U~ion's concet;ts. ~ The Dnfters wtll be making a~ked for c-:offin's. reacti~n to. a their second appearance at T1me magazme arttcle whtch. smd Union, having played I 11 that the conduct of. the antt-war Memorial Chapel seven years people when the pnsoners came ago. The Drifters ha' e had b~ck to New york was. a numerous hits, among them disgrace, and thetr accusatiOns \\Under the Boardwalk,\ ··up On that the prisoners had been '\re- the Roof.\ ''On Broadwav,\ and ca_r.tured\ by . the American '\This Magic Moment'~. The mrhtary were nonsense. Drifters, along with their singing. Continued from Page 1 responded that he d!d, because t.t seemed that if McGovern were elected we would definitely have peace, and with Nixon there is only a possibility of it. He refused to be discouraged by polls which indicate McGovern is far behind, saying that the forces which produced McGovern are much more important than McGovern himself and that those forces working against the status quo seemed to he constantly growing. Coffin said he was optimistically \\looking forward to the picketing of George . McGovern.\ --------------- ... else now? Several of his comments dealt with the nature of the air war in general. He said that most of the prisoners in Vietnam did not really know what they were . doing until they were shot down. Flying miles overhead and dropping bombs on people they cannot see, they are, Coffin said. divorced from reality. . Co~fin freely admitted that the perform dance numbers as well. situatton could . have been Their diversity should lead to an handled better, saymg only that enjoyable evening. Gold Max everyone was. exhausted. will open the concert and play a Howe.ver, he pomted .out t·hat variety of Oldies but Goldies. Hanot meant for the pnsoners to This is the first in a series of be released to the Amer~can concerts that have been planned pe.~ple, n~t to the Amen:an by the Inter-Fraternity Council. mthta~y. 1 o ~ee the returmng The I.F.C'. hopes that it can Amencans Whtsked off by the 'continue to bring to Union military before even being entertainers that are widely allowed time to see their families known and have a name made was a shocking sight for those for themselves. However, this is people who had worked hard to only possible with support from get the prisoners released. He the campus at large. Such names said that the government's as the Chambers Brothers. the conduct towards the returning Eisley Brothers. Canned Heat. MCAT-DAT-GRE LSAT-ATG·SB OCAT NAT'L. BDS. • Prepara110n for tests required for admissi.on to graduate and profes- sional schools . • S i.x and twelve session courses • Small groups • V aluminous material for home stud prepared by experts in each field • Lesson schedule can be tailored to meet indLvidual needs. Lessons can be spread over a· period of several months to a year, or for out of town students, a.period · of one week •Opportunity-for reviewof past . lessons via tape at the center Special Compact Courses during Weekends- lntersessions Summer Sessions STANLEY H. KAPLAN EDUCATIONAL CENTER LTD. 1875 e ... 16th Strnt Brooklvn, N. y ..9'- ~ 1212) 336--~00 :C';!, .. (516) 538-4555 ~~ OAYS,EVENINGS,WEEKENDS ~ Branches in Major Cities in U-S.A. The Tuwri\'l &hool with the Nalionwitle Reputation •'• ONCE A IGHT GAZETH Love, Paul Delfin Levrs Dave's' Mens Shop 453 State St. (downtown Schenectady) 'For tltree Generations.' Those Who Know ... Hove been .-commending Several questions directed at Coffin dealt specifically with his recent mis~ion to North Vietnam to secure the release of three American POW's. One reporter HERSHEL MAURICE B WALTEn •~3 Union Graduates in Graubatt Family' 166 JAY ST. FOR HONEST SERVI<:;E AND GOOD JfWELR'Y ' . /·· P.O.W.s showed that the G R ll S t t rass oots, . an yana. e c .. government did not care about have been mentioned as future the possibility of .endangering possibilities .if the concert i~ future releases and that they were successful. very much afraid of what the For this Homecoming. Prisoners might say. Saturday, November 4th. put on ·Levrs Dave's' Mens Shop 453 State St. (downtown Schenectady) I ' your leather jackets, comb hack your D.A.s', pull hack your pony tails and you'll dance away with a million bucks 'worth of memories. Just play it cool, jule, and you'll have it made in the s·hade at the Golden Night of Rock'N' Roll. MAMA . BIANCHI'S RESTAURANT 1135 Barrett St • Real Italian Food Cooked To Order We Cater To Students The Frie11dliest Place in Town OPEN TO 3 A.M. FRI. 111~. SAT I LONGINGLY AT THE CASTLE OF TH!:. WOI<!D'S MOST BEAUriFUL MAIDEN ••• WHEN A DRAGON OFFERED \'WAIT HERE 1 THE DRAGON TO GAIN HIM ENTRANCE FOR SAYETH,. DISAPPEARING WITH (] W o 0 PM A N THE. FEE OF 2 6-PACK.S OF THE BEERE ... SCHAEFER BE ERE.. ~~·~~1m.~ ;.• ,- Schaefet arewenes. New Vork and Albany. N.Y. 88111morc.-Md.,leh1Q:h Valh'Jy, Pa.

8\ On Tuesday, October 31st in · SS 016 at 8:00 p.m. the Political Forum will have Ms. Mary Anne Krupsak as their guest speaker. · Hei topic for discussion is \Political Priorities in the '70's.\ CONCORD!ENS!S, Friday~ Oc;tober 27, 1972 Ms. Krupsak is running for State Senator from the 44th · Senatorial district in New York. The district encompasses Fulton, Hamilton, Montgomery, Schenectady, and part of Saratoga ctmnties. · BLITH.E.R • •• • • •• Dean Steven Glickman of the Yale Law School will visit the campus on Tu~;sday, J0-31-72. He ·will see students in two groups in the SS . Faculty Lounge. Times 9:30 or 10:30 - Students may sign up fot this visitation at SS216A .. Stop by on Saturday evening for s6me good music by John and Cindy and Kim. Starts at 9:00 p.m. at Phi Sigma Kappa, 1461 Lenox Rd. Free coffee and free admission. . * * \' * Lecturer · At · Sig. Xi The Union College Chapter of foot-long; five-color, rainbow· the Society of the Sigma Xi has 'balloon anq a light system flown been designated as one o~ the · during the closing ceremonies of chapters to be visited by a Srgma · the 1972 · Olympic games in Xi National Lecturer. Dr. Walter Munich. . * * * * A native of Amsterdam, , Ms. Krupsak was first elected to the New York State Assembly from the l04th district in 1968. Re- elected in 1970, Ms. Krupsak is a ranking minority member. Sh~ serves on the Education, Conservation, and Agriculture Committees, as well as the A series of weekly keep-fit classes . for women has been proposed. The program is sim!lar to one formulated by a phystcal education teacher and a nurse in a sports hall sout'h of London. The brothers of Sigma Chi challenge any greup of freshme~ who think they can beat our footba1I team to a fair match. The prize: a keg of beer. You name the ~ime and place - what have you got to lose? Contact · any one of the brothers at 346- 9582. * * * * There will he an organizational meeting of 11.ll people interested in forming a guerilla fheatre troupe, Monday, October 30, at 7:30p.m. in Humanities ll5. H. G. Lewin wil1 present a lecture . The Signia' Xi ·Society is an entitled: \X-Ray Astronomy ~ ho·norary organization of A Y()ung, Exciting, Rapidly scientists which seeks ... to Expanding Science\ at 4:30 on encourage' scientific research. Tuesday, Oct. JI, in· Room 0'16 Each year students who of the Social Sciences Suilding. demonstrate an ability to Dr. Lewin is an associate conduct :scientifie research are pFofessor at., the Massachqsetts initiated into mem·bership .. ·~he Institute of Technology and · Union. College Chapter is the pioneered in condu'<~ing_ high third oldest chapter\. C?f . t~e energy X-ra,y observatwns from society, which was organxzed m ·' ba!.loons. H.e is presently 1887. · · Judicial tegislative Committee on Metropolitan-Regional Area Studies and the JLC on Labor and Industry. It is a fairly vigorous program of exercises, including some set to music. The instructer will be Janet Weick. For further information caH Jay. O'Brien at 372-0145. • Ms. Krupsak has shown her support in favor of abortion. She has also been known for her attacks on legislative reform. All interested are welcome to attend. * * * * Yee Haw!!! Ther's goin' ta be a hip swingin\ body swayin',. SQUARE DANCE fur aU ~ dosey-do-ets! Jist come on down ta the gym in yar sneaks or feets on· Nov. 3rd, at 8 a'clock and raise Wh~opee!! (Ain't no prerequisite ·cept fer ta have fun.) * * \' * There will be a PJRC meeting Monday, October 30, in the basement of the infirmary (Silliman Hall). All members are requested to attend, ~ild interested students are cordmlly invited. Plans for consumer education will be discussed. Dave's· M,ens Shop 4~State St. (dow.JJto:vvtt\Schenectady) Interested students please conta'ct Mr. Bruce Allisen at the Alumni Gymnasium. There will also be a sign-up sheet on the gymnasium bulletin board. * * * * All tax-supported activities and I.F.C. activities must register all campus functions at least one week prior to the event with Mrs. Marra. in the Student Activities Office Old Gym Hall. There have :been many conflicts in the. past. This system .should r~sol~e our schedule conflicts, and .It wtll be in effect on October 30. * * * * There will be an intra-squad rugby game this coming Monday . on Library Pield. ·All team members better report. Do not regard this as a practice - attendance is mandatory. * * * *. ATTENTION STUDENTS AND SINNERS: The Union College Mountebanks will present their second production of the season. Archibald Macleish's J.B.. from November 14 till Nov. 21. Tickets will go on sale daily at t·he Nott Memorial box office starting Oct. 31, from 1-5 and 7-9 p.m. Phone: 370-6153. ~~·~~v~v~n HEC'K'S Travel Bureau We are looking for a student to sell our &:jtrack ta.pes. We ate resJ'ected thfoughout the country as producing a prerni um product. Have .your own thriving business. We carry almost 500 selections of all types of musit!: Soul, Pop. Oldies, Country and Western, Popular, Etc. If you are interested c a 11 M elo<ly Recordings Inc. (20 1) 575- 0430; ask for either Mr. Jonas . f.. .~· MOHAWK MALL § 370-0824 § • . ~ ISJ Barrett St. § 346-3431 § or Mr. Reid. S. No Sen ·ice Charge ~ ~t.Q>~~I.O'\:Q>~ AI~ Airlines helps·~ beat the waiting game ••• And saves you up to 25%. Allegheny's Young Adult Card lets you fly whenever you want to (even hol.idays) and still get advance reservations. H vou' re between 12 and 22, what ore you waiting for? Stop by any Allegheny ticket counter and purchase your Young Adult Card. Allegheny also accepts all other major airlines' , oung Adult Cords. .... ,\\' ALLEGHENY AIR: SYSTEM· ... . VVe haw a lot 1110re gang. for )CU. * * * * LOST: one round silver earring with tQrquoise inlay. REWARD! Turn in to campus security. * ·* * * Student's International Meditation Society will present a First Introduct()ry Lecture in Transcendental Meditation, Thursd~y. November 2 in Old Chapel at 8 p.m. For further information call 370-4302. * * * * Anyone interested in playing at the Finals Freebie Coffeehouse should contact Jeff at 370-Q9ll or Becky .at 370-0414. * * * * Have any gripes? Are you tired of bitching to clesed ears? The Committee on Student Life wants to hear your complaints, grievances, and ·suggestions! See: Leslie Herman, 352 Fox, 346- 9692 Valerie Hoffman, 214 Richmond, 346-9848 Jerry Jaiven, Sigma Chi, 346- 9582 Judy Male, 352 Fox, 346-9692 Robin Waring, 312 Fox, 393- 1640 Married Couples Part· Time Job Care for other people's children or homes while on vacation. Free room and board, work as you want. Must have car, l child allowance. $100/week. Contact 355-8395 anytime, 2 Regina Dr., Schenectady. involved in prep1,1rations for The talk by Dr. LewJn will be observations of rapidly . varying of a· general. ·informative nature sources from orbiting · sateUite to interest scientists, educators, observatories. Dr. Lewin has also and students. ~Coffee will be collaborated in the production of served before the lecture in the \sky art\ events such as a 1500- Social Sciences· student lounge. PIRG·News by SUE and FRANCESCO 'the newly form.ed PIRG (Public Interest. Research Group)_ presented last Wednesday, October 18, its first guest speaker. Mrs. Kay R 0 zenclaal, a widely known civic leader, spoke to the group. She is currently a tt1,1stee and board. member of the National Assembly. for ,Social P.olicy and DeVelopment ~nd chairman of the executwe committee of the N ationa.l Council on Crime and Delinquency. She also belon~s to · other countless organizations both local and on the national level. ' . The discussion. focused on the necessity of students, especially those at the college level, to become involved with the society which encompasses them. By becoming involVed, they may be able to break ethnocentric barriers. Groups such as PlRG can serve as a vehicle on which students can discover, or at least become aware of tbe problems that exist in their loeal community. But this is only the first phase of PIRG. The second and most impottant is that of interaction with the ·c.ornmunity, Mrs. Rozendaal outlined illi'>st of the social organizations which exist in Schenectady, emphasizing that many .of them are in need of volunteer college . students; Being a Schenectady resident, Mr:s. Rozendaal was very pleased in seeing college students interested in the community and offered her services to the group whenever they might be-needed. tevrs Dave'$. Mens Shop . 453 State St. . (downtown Schenectady) The shirt that built America. The logger wore it. So did the smith. And the deckhand. And the railroad man. Of ·an the shirtmakers around·, who would understand chambray better than Eagle (founded 1867), . Now Eagle has updated chambray in styling, in colorj m upkeep. . . . . . . But they've kept the basic honesty of ·thts great old fabrtc. Deep Country Chambrays by Eagle Shirtmakers. They help even the city seetti livable again. $]4,00 Dave's .Sq.Hre Shop Tues, thUlS 'til 9 DOWNTOWN ·SCHENECTADY 420 State Stteet -- ...... ,.. __ ~..----- .... ~ .. - - u Art: pro Arc Pri1 T ven Old mo1 act< tha1 and and wh~ fro! con ·~ me pro the rep mil face J.B one as . to ·• des J lov Bei ass· go( Arr har am dot wa: am des chi J.E det Go eric tak an qw .1 wit intc Co staJ Dn Tit tak wh 14 No Ro 37( sh< I I I I I I I I I I I I I I I I I I I I I I I I I I ·I I I . ' ...

of in 0 0 .. e founded a.t Union College in 1 ~77 Vol. 102, No. 12 Tuesday, October 31, 1972 20 cents Mounti·es Plan· 'J.B. by ROBERT TOOARO Union College's Theater .of the Arts announces its first major production of the year, Archibald MacLeish's Pulitzer Prize winning play, J.R. The pla,y ~s a modern-day version of .the story of Job; in the Old Testament. It is put in motion hy tWo broken-down actors Who believe, themselves, . that the play is the Book of Job and that one of them acts God and the other Satan*. However, what results is a J ,B. different from their concept of the conv.entional Job. Reverend Charles Henderson photo by Scott Burns Hebrew 11 and 12 Reinstated For Year by PHIL ALCABES Hebrew II and 12, despite last June's decision by President Martin to discontinue them, have been reinstated for 1972-73. Acting Provost Willard F. Enteman recently announced that the Hebrew program would be continued for this year, its third, to be funded from the general College Treasury. After the suspension of Hebrew ll and 12 had been announced, several people, and. Enteman stressed that these people came for the most part as co.ncerned individuals rather than organizations, complained and protested vehemently. They :Fequested an oral debate on ·the issue. Enteman saw the :difficulties of making any rational decision in such a heated, \'pressure-cooke.r atmosphere\ and asked the protesters to draw up a written document stating their case for the resumption of the program .. Upon perusing this document - a letter signed by several individuals the Provost realized that there were certain \legitimate grievances put forth. He decided that this, in view of the great confusion. which occurred at the beginning of this term, was sufficient grounds to permit the pmgram to go on for this year so that it might be studied by the proper authority, and a decision on its future be made. MacLeish uses a circus as the metapho-r to stage this production. At the opening of the play, clowns are seen who represent just a few of the millions of people who have faced the plight now confronting J.B. Tbey have suffeFed and no one has paid them ·attention, and as a result they have now come to help enact the ritual of J. B.'s despair. Henderson Details Th-eology Of Presideontial Candidates This proper authority is the Curricular Affairs Committee, as established by last year's Governance Report. The CAC will investigate the Hebrew program during this academic year, then decide if it syould be offered in future years. If it should, then some program must be found 'to eliminate, because, next year, funds for the Hebrew program must come out of the curriculum budget. So far, it has been independently funded. Enteman maintains that independent funding, for instance from the Jewish community, will not be accepted in the future, in the interests of preservi.ng the college as separate from and uncontJ;olled by the dictates of community considerations. J. B. himself is a powerful man ~ prosperous and possessed of a lovely wife and fine .children. Being not particularly devout, he assumes as his birthright the good life typically the American way. In J.B.'s mind hard work is always rewarded, and wh«m he does something, it's done big ~ again the· Ametican way. When J.B. eats, he feasts, and when he is in remorse, he despairs. Through ~he l<;>ss of his chiJdren and later his prosperity, J.B., like Job, like any of us, demands justice of the world and God~ .. Teach me my guilt,\ he cries, .. to repent.\ His identity is taken from him and then his arrogance toward life is questioned. . . The play has already been cast with rehearsals now proceeding into the fol,lrth week. union. College's Charles Steckler is stage designer and Professor of Drama . Barry Smith directs. Ti~ket reservations are now being taken for the performances, which run from Tuesday, Nov. 14 through Tuesday, Nov. 21 in Nott Memorial's Theater in· the Round. The box office number is 370-6153. On all nights of the showing, doors will open at 7:30, Continued on Page 2 Environment is often cited as a., major influence in people~s lives. It has been suggested that no one's reactions are unpredictable, and their cause can be traced bacl~ to previous e~periences. On . Thursday, October 26, at 7:30 p .. m., a group of • students gathered in Old Chapel to hear Revere11d Charles Henderson discuss how religion has inspired President Nixon's and his rival, Senator McGovern:s plans· for the United .States. The discussion was sponsored by the Political Forum and Chi Psi, and chaired by Professor Nichols. Reverend Henderson, author of Nixon's Theology; claims that the religious upbringings of both met:J. are very influential in this election. According to Reverend Hen- derson, by repeatedly mentioning his Quaker ties, President Nixon is trying to obtain the image of a peaceful candidate. One immediately associates the Quakers with that sect found on the Eastern seaboard. These Q1.1akers obtain draft deferments a~ conscientious objectors. What the President fails to mention, much to the Ea,stern Quakers' dismay, is that his family is associated with the Western Quakers, who moved west during th.e great \'Revival .of Christianity.\ They exchanged ·---~---------~---~-----~--~-~- I Coilcordy Ballot please fill out one (only) and deposit in ballot box in Student Activities Office, O.ld Gym Hall. For President McGovern (Dem.) Nixon (Rep.) ......... Your Class Freshman Sophomore •....... I I • I I I I I I I I I I I I I I I I 1.' I I Schmitz (Am.) ........ Junior ........ I ·' Spock (People;s) ........ Senior ........ I I ·I (Other) ........ Thank you. I 1 I I , I \ . . . I ·----~-..._ ___________________ ~ ... ---..-------.-~ ..... · ' .. .... . by JUDY D'ElN quiet meetings and silent prayers for loud revival meetings. The Western Quakers can be compared with the Conservative Evangelists more easil¥ than v.:ith the Eastern Quakers. President Nixon is, in truth, a militant Quaker. The President's religious fervor h&s caused him to launch his fight agairist the atheistic system of Communism._ Nixon ,was V(!ry active in helping,. to . we~Q. out Communist agents during the Mc~arthy era. For him, the battle against Communism is a religious as well as a political fight. ln domestic affairs, the President has vetoed the : Day Care bill approved by Congress. He did this on two grounds, the first being that too much money was allocated. The second one, however. stems again from his anti-Communist and therefore religious beliefs. The President claimed that it is very dangerous to remove children from their parents? care and place them in \communal\ centers. The nuclear family is where religious principles are \inculcated.\ It is therefore .. morally\ wrong to ·remove children from their homes, even for a short time. President Nixon then insisted on a Welfare work requirement. ln many cases, this will force Welfare mothers to go to work and leave their children home alone. Rev.erend Henderson claims that this is not contradictory to Nixon's belief in the importance of the family unit. He said that one of Nixon's strong beliefs. is that hard work is another virtue which must be taught in the home. Perhaps the issue most outstanding in many minds is the Vietnam War. Nixon has repeatedly stated that to withdraw \would be to renounce morality.\ This war is not only a military test, but a test of the strength of American morals as well. The most important feature of Nixon's speech seems to be the need to morally justify his actions. many Bible passages as a child, he often cites them in his speeches. In an interview with Reverend Henderson, McGovern admitted that in . orcjer to evoke feelings in the American people he is \consciously manipulating them with religious imager~,\ as does Nixoh. McGovern's religious beliefs have also -influenced his political beliefs. Concerning Vietnam, he claims that by staying there we may be saving face, but by withdrawing we will be saving our '\soul.''lhis can be compared with the \salvation of the soul\ preached in Church. McGover.n sees the redistribution of wealth as the first step in the attainment of the Christian ideal.· If a few gather piles of wealth free enterprise is. smothered. McGovern's Vietnam and economic policies are both expressions .of Christi on ethics. Reverend Henderson then co.ncluded with a basic comparison of the two candidates. According to Nixon, Americans have the choice of Continued on Page 2 The logical choice for elimination would be the Russian program, as there are more students who wish Jo take Hebrew than Russian (also than Chinese, but the Chinese professor is tenured). Thi·s, however, brings up the question of what follows Hebrew 12. There is no appreciable modern (as opposed to classical) Hebrew literature, while there is an extensive Russian literature. Russian is probably, according to Enteman. a more important language from an international relations standpoint. The Provost admitted, though, that the primary determinant in ~stablishing a language program Continued on Page 2 Reverend Henderson then turned his discussion to one concerning Senator McGovern's religious ideas. McGovern was also very religious in his youth. He is a 'Fundamentalist Evangelist. Having memorized . Tickets are now on sple · .in tlze Q[lice of Student Activities for the Homecoming concert starring \Twisting\ Chubby Checker and the .fabulous Drifters this Saturday, November 4th. 71t:kers htwe been sc.>lling extreme{v .fa.Jt and there • will pro b a b I J' be nolle leji at the door Jo sell to students. .. ' . .. ~ ,.,

; I 2 CONCORDIENS/S, Tuesdav. Octob(!r J1. 1972 COJ'.JCORDI~S WRUC Kicks Off. ......... u ..... c .. ~'\\'' . .. . . Weekend W1th Remote Editor-in ... Chief ............................ George Rain News Editor ................................ Tim Cain Associate Editor ......................... Matthew Swartz Managing Editor~ ........................ 'Rita Morandi J-im Rostenberg 1-~ature:-. Editor ............................ AI Reisch Sports Editor ..................... , ......... Bruce Batchelder Photo Editors ............... ; ............... l.es Kernan .Jeff W eilburg Bu:-i.nc~s Manager ........................ Michael J. Hurley ~ational Advertising .................... Stephen Kelly Suh~cription~· ............................... Mike Bernstein .L.wcutl\c Fditors .............. ; ......... Peter Dickerman l.ouis S. Snitkoff CONCORDY STAFF Francesco Isgro Louis Bat.ash Ray Faught Phyllis R. Edelman Pat Bohen Bill El'ichson Gail Goodman Mitch Lubart Jim Smith Robert Shugoll Steven Krakauer Brian lewis Mark Mindel Judy Dein Stewart Abramson Bill West Marty Sherm11n Andy Richman RonAines Woody Guthetz Scott Reiter Phil Alcabes Tom Conley Malcolm Snowden Da:ve Strom Don Hamerman Nelson Wei! Woody Lauer Fred Lucas Larry Wharton Doug Carpenter Bob Sax Billy DeBear David Wagenknecht Debbie Glasser Scott Burns As sure as the brook bounds the Union College; Homecoming Weelcend has always started on Thursday. This year a new twist has been added to the usual festivities. lnstead of heading up to Saratoga. the studentry of Old U. Col. can head over to a uniquely all'-Union bar. The Brothers Three on Van Vranl<en Ave. is owned and operated by three (half the name) Union graduates. Mike Esposito, Lou Furmanski, and Treat Rinear . . have pooled their talents to make the Brothers Three one of the most appea:ling bars in the .area. They art aU graduates in the class of '72 and furthermore they were brothers (the second half of the name) in Sigma Chi. On Thursday the Brothers Three won't be just another niqe place. to go and sip a few; it will be the &ite of a now infamous WRUC Remote. lt has been six weeks .since . the merry crew has been before the public. Now the Candidates' Theo-l-ogy Continued from Page 1· Andy Pearce supporting the Work Ethic, his political realism.\ If they are policy, or the Welfare Ethic, using. religious imag~ry to McGovern's policy. Nixon claims convince the public of their that the Protestant Ethic of hard worth, it is because the public work should dominate the can, and does, associate with this economic system of the U.S. ideology. Their religious beliefs McGovern feels, however, that have influenced their voting the Christian ideal of records. The p1,1bliq'~ religious ________________ ...., __________ redistdbuting wealth and helping ideas will in turn influence their I h C • • • the poor, not condemning them, vote. He a . t• . . . ·Y . ·r· ···t·l c· ·I.S .. m· . should determine American Professer Nichols summed up pol.icy. the discussion by saying that In this space (which we normally reserve for_ exposing It must be noted that both men while the Church and State are · · · l · have been influenced by the sep.arate in tt.e U.nite.d States, corruptiOn m..:h1gh paces), 1 would hke to acknowledge and Ch · · E h. · ,. nsttan t tc. Their policies \Religio·n and State are comment upon Steve Zaloga's letter, which appeared in last differ because of the differenc@ in intertwined,\ . Friday's Concordiensis. The letter was fairly well-written, so their interpretation of the Ethic. · naturally we carefully concealed it in the lower right hand Accord.ing to Henderson, M'.. 'o u· . n t.I. e s Nixon feels that .the A.menican . · . · · · ·. . · ~olumn of the third page .. people have been blessed by God. Steve's letter was a critical response to an article I had The wealth and power .of the written on the Democratic Party reforms. The controversy Americans are proof of this. He over these reforms is not really of cr~ci!l'i· 1I:I1]'>6tt<t,nce to al~o. f.eels tl,tat .. p,atrio_tism is close Continued fromPage 1 with positively .no o11e ·admitted after 8:00P.M. college students; 1 don't think many of fuy 'friends· pace the to a worship of God. Therefore floor at night unable to sleep until tpis knotty issue has been good citizens are silent ones. ln his eyes, criticisms of America·. *Excerpts taken from A, MacLeish- reprintcd.fj\om New York Times resolved. But Steve ZaJoga's letter is of larger importance may be compared with heretical and greater significance than the ephemeral political issue remarks. Nix;on believes that men J_ B. with which it is concerned. are sinners, and Americans alone Sarah Steve Zaloga offers a reas~med, documented, cogent are bles.sed. Thi.l> can ac.count for Mr .. Zuss h . d · k y· Nickles a.rgutnent to support his contention that Poles and other ts · estre to rna e tetna.rn El' h democratic. It is like a 8 · 1 • 1 1 dPadaz ethnic groups have been the obiects of more widespread • · · f J conversron o the sinner. This discrimination than was acknowledged in my article. The can also help one· understand Zophar Distant Voice soher, rational argument presented by Steve in his letter is why the Vietnam War has Mary fairly convincing. continued- despi'te the great ioss of lives. Clowns In my defense, I can only say that my article was casually McGovern feels that one must CAST Tom Hord Becky Anderson Lee Bloomrosen Eric L. Foxman Jay Rosenberg Hank Barsanti Steve Kronlsh Gerry Silberstein Laurice Calrnus- Katie Hollister Allan Windt written and impressionistic. Of course, casual impressionistic criticize the government, and writing is no excuse for making misleading or inaccurate change it until it helps all people. Stage Manager Paul Johnson Alan Pietzykow:skl Robert Todaro statements, so Steve's letter is appreciated. He identifies Liberal reform bills Les Tolchin ·The manner in which the letter was written is significant. with Christian ethic. It is Steve had a criticism to make, a differing point of view to everyone's duty to help create a world where all men am treated express, and he did so in -a calm, rational, and logical equa.ll.y. Whereas Nixon feels Music manner. This i-s an example of the kind of disagreement that that the Americans are blessed, Chuck Fisher can, and really should, occur in any academic community. McGovern feels that God does Criticism has gone too far when it reaches the stage of petty not give favors. McGovern sniping and personal vilification. For the most part, though, values aU human lives, hence his peace policy. Bob Harders Larry Feldman Tom Parisi Carol Hill Abby Schutzer Nancy Golden Dale Ecker Susan Brecher Ann Bowley disagreement, discussion, and a little criticism are healthy Nixon's beli~f in the evil man,. signs and should be encouraged. tc and McGovern's belief in the noble man constitutes the basic difference in the two men's Jay Billiards Lounge . Letters· cases, he would have found that: To the Editor: After reading Don PLAY POOL-· RELAX ideology. Daily 10-9 p.m. Both men are guided by their Sa 10 9· t. ~. p.m. background, and both are \a Sun. 2 p.m.-8 p.m. denizens ·Of WRUC are mor,e then anxious to provide the room filling sounds that make remotes like no other party. Starting at eight o!clock the WRUC studios wnr .be ·locked and all broadcasting will come from the Br,others Three. (This hit of magic is worked by Ma BelL) In order to make it to the Brothelis Three all one· need do is take a shmt walk down Van Vranken. Brothers Three is located on the 'left side of the street just across from Teddy K's. Finally there is a bar fot Union students run by people who want you to come over, and want you ahead of their other c11stomers. Hebrew Continuedfrom Page 1 is how important it .is to the students. These .are all considerations that must be undertaken by fhe CAC before next Jun\'!. Should the committee fail to reach any decision hy then, it win be . too late fo~ ~he Budget Coml'}li~tee\'to approp·r~a:te money, ~UJ.d. Hebrew wilT be dropp.ed. , ,. , .. Anoth~t reason for· Entema!is 'decision to allow the Hebrew program to be, investigated this year is the r. ponfl,lsion r.es;ulting from a multiplicity of responsible bodies. -established tinder the new., Governaqce System. This resulted in the listing of Hebrew f 1 and 12 in the new catal(,)gue, alt~\<We;h their continuance .had ab:e4•&y·li.~JJ, v~to.ed ,b¥' President- Martin. · A general comm~,t!lications foul-up ensued, and nobody knew for certain · who had decided what. · The Provost· thus <determined ; to 1isten -to ·the - 'co'm:plaihl:s- regarding the· PTesid•ent's, decision, and came up with his edict that Hebrew be continued for this year, hoping that lines of communication might be .Straighte'n.ed out, proper responsibility established, and the Hebrew program rationally investigated as a pessible \new\ · curricular addition fer the future. * * * *' Ticket sellers are needed for the Taj Majtal concert. lr' you are interested, call 377-3919 as soon as possible. PROCTOR'S ·w:.~ STAT£ ST., SCHENECTADY ' ,- .. ~ 1: ? \'i' ,. \\\ ! Nov. l-8 Hammer Chato's Land Hamerman's article . entitled \McGovern leach~In Dn\¥s· Capacity Crowd.\ I found -myself both laughing and, unfortunately, crying at Mr. Hamerman's many, and obvious mistakes. in reporting. The .. capacity crowd\ that Mr. Hamerman talks about was a half-empty room, and had Mr. Hamerman bothered to talk to either the \frustrated politico,\ or the \one of the two non- McGovern listeners in the audience (who sa-id) 'I can't trust Nixon but I can't trust McGovern',\ myself in both I most ardently support George McGovern, I am not a \frustrated politic{)\ and that my full quote was \after stunts like Eagleton, many people are saying '1 can't· trust Nixon, but I don't know if I can trust McGovern combination of honesty and '\============~ ,-------------t ~ ,. Quality food Reasonable Nov.4& 5 Mati~ee Only! now',\ . . It is my sincere hope that this- type of reporting is the exception and not the rule, and that in future such biased, and usually untrue statements like \frustr:ated politico\ are edited out of news articles. .. Richard Nixon has a secret plan to end the war in Vietnam. He is going to vote for George McGovern.\ Marc S. Altman Class ()f '7 6 Concordicnsis i> published every rucsday :1nd hidn~ during the school year except during examination and· Vacation periods o~ the student hody of Union C olkge. Schenectady. 1\i. Y. N ationnl ad\ crt ising reprcsc·ntatil·c. National Educational Advertising: Serl icc. Inc. College Puhl ishcr; Representative. ;o.;atwnal Educational Adlerti;ing Sen icc. Inc .. N. Y.C. Editorial Oft:ice. Old (j)m. Union College. Puhlication Office. The Je\\ish World Public<itions. 77.1 State Street. Schenectady, N.Y. 12307. 346-2.156 E_ntcred in the SchenectadY po>t office as Second Class Mail Malter. Suhscriptf:m 20 ('COts 11 copy. $H ;I year deli,crcd any\\ here in the United States. De1tdlinc lor all copy, which must he t}pcd and double-spaced, is 7 p.m. on Monday and Thursday at the Concordy office •. nho>e Old Chapel. Office telephone number is J70-6155, hut the office i~ only in use on Monda\ and Thursday nights. For aJJ editorial matters. call the editor-in-chief at 393- /640; for information call Student Activities Office at 370-6118. - L.atest 8 Track Tapes $399 AR.CADE Tape Shop PROCTOR'S ARCADE ~ I -, I I I ' ' I I Dinner 4--8 p.m. Prices RedFox Inn. Charcoal Burgers 8-Midnight Cold Sandwiches Jay Street ASK ABOUT THE \II for 10 CLUB\ God.zilla v. Smog Monster Nov. 8-15 Big Store Day at the Circus Freshmen & Upperclassmen Bids will be matched with your choice of Fraternity on Tues. Nov. 7. Bids will be accepted at lunch, dinner, and all day at the Student Activities Office. Lookingforward to seeing you at the I.}~ C. festivities this weekend 1 .. re of 'W ar c. fa wi K w A• U: ar fo JiO In th su of pr ac af co PE ffil Sa T~ Nc ffi4 :.p.( on t:h• at1 n me pr• fOl D 3 sty I stut dirt ancl tall folc -

e mere at an the it of ) the do is Van ls the K's. want you he. '\ , \ ·; \ /; ·, . 1 f \ 'r ( l ~ l I ' ' '' co'Ncok.D..I.i'Ns/~·. Tuesday, Oetober 31. 1972 3 The PYE Club will hold their regular meeting in. t~e haseme~t of Silliman Hall (tnfirmary) thts Wednesday night at 7:30 p.m. AU are welcome. . . * * * * Tickets for the Social Committees final concert. of the fall term, an evening of blues with Taj Mahal and Spider Joh.n Koerner, will go on· sale thts Wednesday in the . Student Activities Office. Tickets for Union students and their g.uests are o:Qiy $2.50. The concert ts set for Friday evening, . November 1:0, at 8:30 in Memori~l Chap71. In addition to lots of ftne ~u~te, there will be another. intermissiOn surprise plus, free to ~U, a copy of ,concert magf!,ZUle and program, NlCKLEODEON. * * * * Hames are needed for adorable kittens and an affectionate cat. If· interested, contact Mark, Marc, Steve, or Paul at 372-8177. * * * * 'Two Union Political Science majorS; Paul Pfingst and Chuck Sa batt, will appear. on . WRG B- TV (channel 6} this Satttrday, November 4, at 12:30 P.M., as moderators fo.r .. Yeuth in >Pdlitica'l Action.\ . . ·* * * * . The . McGovern orgaoi~ation on~ t::arrrpus wishes to thaQk, all those ··people who organtzed, attended, and performed in last Thur:sday's concert. The show meant' a good time for those ptesent·and had beneficial results for the- campaign effort. * * *· *l DIAMOND ENGAGEMENT & WEDf>J,NG RINGS 3 000 ·ring selections in all styl~ · at . SO% distount to students, .staff, . and faculty •. Buy • direct rr~m leading manufacturer and SA VEl Yl · earat 5179, -% . carat only 5299. For free color folder write: Bo.x 4~, Fanwood, N.J.070l3 ll:L·ITHE.R ••••••••• The Social Committee and Coffeehouse announce: Yee Haw!!! The.r's go in' ta be a hip swingin', body · swayin', SQUAR:E DANCE fer all ya dosey-do-ers! Jist come on down ta the gym in yar sneaks or feets on Nov. 3td, at 8 a'dock and taise Whoopee!! (Ain't no prerequisite 'cept fer ta ha¥e fun.) · * * * * The IDOL, Union's literary, artistic, and scho;larly publication, announces . a meeting, Thursday, November 2, at 8 p.m. ~n the M~si~ Room of the Library. All are lfi'Vtted. . Anyone wishing to ~ailt!lbu~e ANY material for publicatiOn lS invited to do so by submitting the material to the circulation desk at the library. * * * * Correction: The Students' International Meditation Society will present a lst lntroductory Lecture on Wednesd;~y, November l, in Old Chapel, at 8 p.m. * * * * There will be a meeting of the .staff of the Coffeehouse tonight tTuesday) at I J :00 p.m. in the fourth floor lounge of North. It is very important that all staff attend. * * * * Anyone interested in playing at the Finals Fre.ebie Coffeeho1,1se should contact Jeff at )70-0911; Becky at 370-0414. All students are welcome to perform, . · ~*~**~ii~~ The qualifying session for. the National Intercollegiate Bndge Tournament will be held on , Thursday, November 9, at 7:45 in ! the Hale House dining room. All . those interested in attending are welcome. This is open only to the student bod,y. Admission will be one dollar. * * * * George McGovern needs ~our help on November 7. ~lectwns are not won or lost untl'l people go to the polls, a11d who actually votes is largely dependent on an organized and efficient Election Day get'\out-the-vote effort. McGovern won in many of the primavies, despite the palls, because thousands of students (among.others) worked to ensure that every McGovern supp~rter voted, and encouraged undectded voters to cast a ballot. It has been estimated hy national headquarters that a total of one million volunteers are going to work for <:Jeorge McGovern next Tuesday m the largest get-aut-the·vote drive in history. Any aid you could provide, if only for a couple of hours, would be extr~~~ly valuable. Election Day actiVIttes in Schenectady wiU include poll- watching, telephone calling to, those who ha:ve . not yet voted, and babysitting for those who need it. The hours between 4 and 8 P.M. are particularly important. Please sign a pledge sheet when you see one · on campus this week; include your telephone number. and your available hours on Nov.ember 7. If, hy the end of the week, you cannot locate a sign-up sheet but you wish to work, . call Peter Bic.kerman at 370-5492. * * * * There will he a club lacrosse game against the Williams lacrosse club Saturday, Nov. 4th at 10:00 on Library Field. * * * * The Street Academy, an open school' for Albany inner-city students of high school age, is in need of volunteers for tutorial work in all disciplines. No funds are now available for reimbursing · tutors, though advancement to paid positions is The third annual Tour de Union will take place thi:~· Sunday, November 5th in .fi·om of Alpha. Delta Pht. Teams are still needed; rules and details v.f the course are available in the Student Acth•ities Office. HECK'S Travel Bu--eau ~ MOHAWK MALL § 370-0824 § • ~ 151 Barrett St. . § 346-3431 § S, No Service Charge ~ ~-~..q,..q,.J tevrs Dave's. Mens Shop 453 State St. (do~ntown Schenectady) photo by Les Kernan ______ ,...._. . ' • t ctlaualier s t· ···--------., t 1st t Prize : Hot Dogs specializing f in hot dogs f with best hot f sauce in town' f' Serving Breakfast, t t Lunch & Dinner Open 7 days a week •, Mon. 4 Thurs. 6-1 a.m. Fri. & Sat. 6-4 a.m. t t ' ' ' t f Sunday 9-J a.m. f 1 _ ..!r!_B~·!h_:! __ I a premise of the school's hiring ' policy. Car pools ~n be _set up from Union, espectally 1f you have a c~t. For further information, contact Jim Lucey •· (Program Director) or Bob ----·-· ------- ........ --~-------:-:. -:\'.\ .. ':\: .. '\:'.~.'\\\:':\\~,~----~.,::-.::-. \:;'. Peterkin (Director) at the''street .···· .~ . Now On.en 7 daysfw_eek Acade'my: 434-2963, .o.~,. .Peter r. · Feldstein: 370-2074. · \' T·he ... Br.others ·III \Union \ management S'tart Off The Homecoming Weekend The Ri:gbt Way -With The WRuc Remote Thurs. 8-l a.m. Festivities Continue: Friday 4-8 - 15¢ drafts Saturday - post game Sour Hour * * * * Tim McCabe and Petet Pach, your student trustees, will . m~et with anyone wishing to ~iscu~s the recent Trustee meetmg m Fox House lounge on Wed., Nov. I at 8:00P.M. * * * * Bookstore contest winning numbers are# 1803 and 8179. ............. .- ............ -- r·- - ~ - ~ ~ -~--l ~ Purity[sabella 's ? ~~t:ll\ *;&~ ~~ ~\QI PHARMACY, INC. l~ Accuracy · ,: ; 527 Union St. ~ ' S~henectady _N.Y. ~ ~~ Ph. 370-~300 ~ ~· WELCOME § l !fN!ON ,~TUDENJ!,,j :':''- .~ ~ -- Arcade . Electronics Why buy Sony wht .1 you can pay less for what seems to. be the same product? The Sony Trinitron has · better · reception _ than other color portables, This would show up mostly in mar.ginal reception areas. Sony will receive color in areas whe(e other sets will not even have a serviceable reception. Sony is extremely reliable. Sony warranties their · transistors for 5 years. We · believe in Sony and therefore include a labor warranty for a full yeat. We never see our customers unhappy again. Come see out entire line of Beat Williams! stereo eq'\lipment and televisions. Proctor's Arcade Ph. 370-3680 BOUL.EV ARD BOWL 1315 Erie Blvd. 40 AMF BOWLING LANES 374-4171· Bow/for Health X ~H ~k ~X ~~ ~k ~~ r Daf1!~~!~~ank~l!~~ers ~ n l'hone FR 4·5193 n u SHIRTS_ PANTS- SKIRTS- DRESSES u n COATS _ SHEETS ·- BLANKETS - DRAPES n u SWEATERS -.. BLOUSES u ~ . !II S~~dent!.Rec~ye A ~isco~t ..,J LUI Cl 'S . RESTAURANT SPECIALIZING IN Italian • Amerl~n Food 11.2& BARRETT ST. SchenectiiCiy Dl 6-9744 Enjoy Sizzling· Steaks end Chops Visit Our C«ktait Bet' LOWEST LIQUOR AND WINE PRICES INN. Y. STATE at -- Moffet's Liquor Store Corner of Van Vranken Avenue Get Your Chilled W.ines Early for the Williams Game

4 Tuesday, Oc,tober 31, 1972 Garnet Comes Close, ,But Finally Lose, 28-21 Middlebury Drops Garnet Soc·cer, 2--0 by MARK W. MINDEL Paced by its tough de-fense aga-inst the rush and a surprisingly effective option offense a psyched Union football squad ~early putled the upset of the year against an . obviously down Hobart eleven. The Stateman, ranked fourth in small college Lambert Bowl ratings, hadn't quite recovered from their last second disappointment against number one ranked Alfred the week before. But nothing should be ta:ken away from what has to be Union's best performance of the year. The biggest disappointment has to be that the Garnet fe'll one touchdown short, 28-21, in their big effort. The Dutchmen came very close to pulling the big upset. Trailing 28 to 14 at the beginning of the last quarter, quarterback Davie Rearic kept with his driving wishbone option using ha.Jfba.cks Bruce Math.ias and !ton Westbrook the most. In 16 plays Rearic marched: 72 yards, sending Mathias around end on a nine yard sprint for the score. The drive took nearly seven minutes and forced the defense into a tough position -· it had to stop Hobart's 400 yar<ls- per-game rushing crew of senior Don Aleksiewicz and freshman phenomena Rich Kowalski. The front line of Don Rupsis, Mark Cerasano, Bill Spelman, and Charlie Weekes came through three minutes later as they repelled big A-to-Z on a fourth and o~~ on the Garnet 43'. The inspired offense came out fired as Rick Jaszczak, who was injured in the second quarter with a ripped tendon, limped aut on the field for the last drive. With 3:5l left in the game Rearic mixed his runs off the option sending Jaszczak, Westbrook, and himself on key runs. But faced with a fourth and four situation on the Hobart 35, Union failed to make the first down and turned the ball over with a little over a minute remaining. Hobart, now 6-1, opened the game with .a quick score marching 60 yards on four .[)lays, the big one a 50 yard pass from quarterback Bob Rowley to end Kim Frisinger. Chris King kicked the first of four extra points to make it 7-0. Union fired right back as Mike Deschler, the super gnat of the squad, to0k the baH on the 8 on the left side of the field raced right behind a waH of blockers, cut back to the left and out-ran the entire Hobart squad 92 yards to the end zone. Bob Mitchell missed the kick and t·he score was 7-6. Hobart came right back, scoring once again on four plays with Kowalski .racing 42 yards around left end for th:e first of three touchdown n~ns. The kick made it 14-6. Union tied it up in the secQnd quartet wheh Rearic climaxed a drive with an eleven yard keeper and Westbrook ran for the two points. Union had the chance to open up a lead early in the third period as they marched the option from their own 22 to the Hobart 35 and looked as if they had JV Soccer Still On Top by FRANCESCO ET AL Offensive star John Denio This didn~t .last for long, though, scored his II th goal of the season as the Garnet defense, led by and left wing Marc Wood added fullback Henry Nields, let the another as .the Union College JV Middlebury line know that they Soccer team humbled socc-er weren't wanted on the Garnet p6werhouse Middlebury 2-0. The side of the field; score itself doesn't do justice to The first score of the game the young hooters, who 0111- came with only 14 minutes gone played, out-shot ~•nd out-classe-d in the second half. Right wing their opponents in every- aspect John Walker headed the ball to of the game. Denio, who picked it up at The only scoring threat from midfield. He broke through the Middlebury came early in tile Middlebury defense with a fine first half. when AI Ritchie individual effort and smashed the accidentally pushed 41 ball into the left corner of the Middlebury player and a penalty net, taking the helpless Panther was called by the referee. The goalie by surprise. penalty kick hit the left post, thu~ The final score came 9 minutes preventing Garnet goalie Phil later, when Marc Wood, after Deluca from making one of his . receiving a pass from Gary Levy. notorious saves. put in his own rebound_ It was all Union after this, and Tomorrow afternoon the score would have been higher (November I) the JV hooters if not for the efforts of the- face Albany State, whom they Middlebury goalie. He was kept defeated earlier this year. The· busy throughout the entire game. college community can do their with 5 shots on goal by Denio share by going to the game, the alone. final game of the season for the The score at the end of the first thus far undefeated Union half was 0-0. but it was plain to College JV Soccer team. all that it was only a matter of time before Union scored. John Busterud replaced the slightly injured DeLuca fqr the second half, a half which saw a seemingly invigorated Middlebury team take the field. - Dave's Mens Shop 453 State St. (downtown Schenectady) FO~ UQUOR & WINE Try JAKE LIPSTEII.'S 4MStateSbaet ........ mastered the Hobart defense. But the only turnover of the game, a Mike Deschler fumble, ended the drive. Hobart capitalized, scoring on a 65 yard TD drive, and came back on their next series with another. Both scores were on long sweeps by Kowalski. Union plays. Williams in a key match Saturday on Alexander Field at 1:30. Now 3-3, the Garnet need two wins in the last three games for a winning season. Cross Country Union's spirited cross country team dropped two dual meets last week, to two squads which turned out to be tougher than expected, Oneonta, f!.nd. . Hamilton. The double loss dropped the ' harriers' season record to a dismal 1-4, destroying all chances of a winning season. Fiery .co-captain Tim McCabe w&s the ,wi-nner for Ahe first time in his eight year cross country career on Tuesday, . b.u.t the happiness of the occasion was somewhat marred by the fact that he actUally crossed the finish line second. Ahead of the little red..;head was Oneonta's John Kearney, who ran for Union last year, and ran in the race despite being ineligible to compete. Union's Steve Jones turned on a strong kick up the final I \4 mile hill tQ take third place f0r the .Garnet, but Oneonta managed to slip four guys in before Urtion's pext finisher, Jim Smith. Friday was a different story. Though they had lost their top two men from last year's state championship team, (Union was second, incidentally) Hamilton proved to be a much improved club. Led by Tim Delaney, the by FRED LUCAS Last Saturday'ssoccer game with undefeated Middlebury proved to be a good test of the Union team's newl:Y developing team spirit. Outgunned from tl1e start, and so,on behind, · the Dutchmen managed to hold the team together throughout the contest, playing steady team ball that by the second period had ,succeeded in equalizing some very uneven odds. · Middlebury obviously had the better skills; after all,. you don't go undefeated and get third-rated in the Northeast by playing in mud- pubbles (though Saturday's rain splashed game also tested both team's ability in this respect). They also had a sensitive, probing attack that was well-integrated with the halfback line. a chronic Union failing. And let us net forget that fully 40%' of the Uniort squad is sidelined with injuries, with several of those on the field walking wounded. (Tbat one amazed a ·Middlebury father, se it seems safe to assume Middlebury was at or neat full strength). Middlebury scored part,-way into the first period of play, working into a one-on-one against Jimmy Sletteland (the goalie} and then putting in a gently lofted dink on what has to be considered a picture-perfect score. Their second score came on a penalty kick that was far from justified in the first place, and should by rights be discounted. Again it was the Union \D?' that provided the .game's most exciting action; more specifically, their outstanding performance in all but .stopping a very good Middlebury .offense. Sandy Wilder again seemed to he everywhere, and had several re.flex saves, one right in front of the goal itself that still seems impossible.- Jimmy Sletteland had what has to have been one of his har4iest games, ~nd he too came through a number of. clutch plays, including several one-on-onj::·'s. , The deficit seemed to affect the offense much more, They showed an over.eagerness in working the ball toward the,goal, and either did not or were unable to use the help of their half-hacks behind. The result . was that Middle bury had four. shots~on.-goaJ to ·every Union attempt. Even Craig Jefferies, the cornerstone of the Union attack, seemed to be having trouble. Considering that forwards probably require a more keenly developed aest:heti.c sense, corresponding to the more creative nature· of their position, .perhaps their uninspiring performance should be blamed on the rain .. (ln which case I hope it is sunny come this Wednesday at Syracuse)- [ must admit, that while depressed with a loss, l was very pleased with the team's overall unity of spirit. They did come off the field as a team. Perhaps they feel they could have done petter. E),feryo,rre. that loses does. I think they have done fat, far worse, ·a·nd 'that Saturday's performance should no.t be regatded as a failure; Now they're plunk-dab-in-the-middle of the \deficit situation'' 1 wrote about last week. If they're ever going to be winners, now is when they have to prove it. Colltinent&ls contro1le<;l the first four places, and only a burning kick by Steve Jones prevented them from completing a five man sweep. Steve was once again followed by McCabe, Smith. Galarneau, and Cutts in the 7, 8, I() and 11 spots. Tomorrow, Union's thinclads face Siena's Joe Rukonshagiza, the ·area's premier long distance runner. They return home on Friday for the final dual meet of the year against Williams, then hop in the car for the ride to Rochester, where the state meet wiU be held Saturday morning. And saves you .UP to 25%. Allegheny's Young Adult Card lets you fly whenever you want to (even holidays) and still get advance reservations. If you're between 12 and 22, what are you waiting for? Stop by any Allegheny ticket counter and purchase your Young Adult Card. Allegheny also accepts aH other major airlines' Young Adult Cards. I \ \ \ Ei Sc le< L< af1 en di~ th 1 to, se; ou su to Sc tir. n va Dt in an th; de ill I ce 01 of ba rei WI flo of of ba ex Fr tht St1 gn bu !at di( cat tel, wll ha, pe1 als tin po thi an Le tlH SOl fo1 sli<

