etc:, Hojlse · ni:tss game: . AU are in the at all Dec .. 2, be the New music, as :Well ·,Coll~ge who ~re Mike 321 fun! and· to founded at Union College in 1877 Vol. 102, No. 19 .. . -: .. ..::. .-- . Mike Doyle sends the championship game ~~r the Capital District tournament into oVPrtime with t~is jqul_ shot. photo by Bill Erichson Friday, January 5, 1973 20 cents ,. -~~w•• •.•-••·--··-·-*' Provost Confirms Tenure Rumors; Reflects On Office reasonable system in the best that the community makes. interests of the College.\ He feels Among faculty members, he has that the present system does not observed, exists a fear that serve those best interests and that someone is \out to get them,\ but it does not provide any they never make an effort to flexibility. A good system, he discover whom. He is reminded continued, \must advocate of the behavioral patterns of a by GEORGE BAIN A new proposal for Union's tenure system may b~;: offered to the campus community by a group of faculty members some time this month. Acting Provost Willard F. Enteman confirmed tP,at \appaFently things are going on,\ in an interview this week in which he reflected on Union College after one term in its Administration. The tenure issue is, quite obviously, the issue with \the greatest long-run impact on the College,\ in Enteman's words, and although he would offer no details about his knowledge of any proposals, he said he would . suppq_rt them \as best I can\ and predicted that \a move may be made in two weeks.\ The Provost is active in the tenure issue, admitting, \I'm trying to do work, and it's hard work.\ His letter, which appeared in the Novemoer 29 issue of ConcordiensisJ was written '\to arouse. the faculty to think out an alternative tenure .system, some violation of AAUP .standards,\ large university, in which the the seven year~ up-or-out dictum. divisional structure cuts people It appears that his letter off from one another and a lack achieved its goal. Dr. Enteman of personal communication exists. finds it \very encouraging\ that When asked who uses the all faculty members working on Provost's office, Dr. Enteman this new proposal \are going to said that a faculty deference the principles. They're not system is in operation - people concerned about themselves but come to see him only if specific about the College.\ He continued business is at hand. He sees the that these faculty members are same group of students, whether not working to \gerrymander the in his office or at his daily lunch system\ to save themselves - his hour in Hale House . only .due as to the nature of the On the subject of student new proposal. activism, he feels that the present When asked about Professors low level at Union \is not Stephen Berk· and David Potts, unusu~l.\ In talking to around whose futures student administrators of comparable protest centered last term, the schools, · he has the impression Provost answered that ''it was no that students everywhere have great shock.\ He had anticipated become more withdrawn. Their the decision not to grant them concerns are only those affairs tenure because of the which .. wuch ttJejr .personal departmental quota· and particular interests:\ they are not commented that he \can't lead dealing with academic issues and the faculty now\ on the tenure principles but only with their issue; fot · he is part .of the own self-interest. martagement .. The implicit c6nservatism is Naturally, that leads one to frightening,\ ·he said and pointed •• wonder about Dr. Enteman~s out a .. specific instance on the U:nion ·Tourney· Runner ... Up· • .. l . • • by MARK W •. Mi.NDEL . Showing aggressiveness and Carmo(iy~s c;ieparture' left- a unity ' not' seen ·'itt 'its~ \J)tevio.U:$' · .. ~large gap , in ·both Coac;h Gary gante$ this 'season; die ~Union Walters· offense a11d · deferise, 'College baskeiball team cime a .· while leaving the offens.e . point away fi·o~ . wiilning ' tb~ . extremely thin :at . guard and highly-sought · Capital District virtually leaderless. Walters, Ciown·. last Saturday· ·night ·1o placed in' a p:osition of ha:vit~g• highlight'·a fotlr game vatati'ott. only- ·converted iorwarcd -Ch01:k ·' schedule• The point was the one Abba and Fairfield transfer Luke they ¢ouldn't get to break a 46-46 · Dillon· at guard, where neither tie ill the waning seconds. of the could afford injury or foul Championship game, in which trouble, solved his problem two- ·Talented tti-capt:rin Mike reaa,tion to his role as Provost campus. Furniture· bas been Qllyle was used as the third and how he views the function of removed from the lounges in Fox guard · to break the ·press~ and the office after six months, and and Davidson, and no students flashy John Denio, one of 18 one school term, on the job. He nave tried to intercede and force Denio siblings, was brought up states he is \ambivalent towards the furniture to be returned. No from the freshman squad with the office,\ pointing out the one even stops people· from special' p.e.rmission from cont~ast between the \minutiae committing the actual act of NESCAC ~f th(: .jqb\ and the \role of removing the furniture from the Denio did 'il: fine hustling job in leadership.\ . . lounges. the RPI game and seemed to add Whether he ·will continue for Returning to the nature of the an extra spark lacking without more than one year in office is an Provost's office, he characterized Continued on Page 4 · unresolved question. Plans call it as the office \in which for a new search committee to administrative problems of Albany. State, favored over fold. Union, went on to win 57-52 in overtime. Union made it to the final's with a lack-luster 71-66 SAC Suffers locate a permanent Provost, and internal nature are handled, with while the Acting Provost did not external relations handled by the declare that he is interested in the President.\ The provost also permanent position, he did deals with short-term victory last Friday night over a jittery RPl squad which bobbled up 27 turnovers, while State shoqked Siena's \natienally- prominent\ squad~ 81-71, in the fast moving, hard-fought preliminary. In its earlier games, Union beat Kings Point 75~70, Dec. 13 while losing to Bridgeport 75-65 the following evening. The game marked the third straight meeting between Union and Albany in the final round of the championship event between the four major colleges in the area. Union was upset in last year's finale by the Great Danes, who in turn had been upset by the Garnet in 1970. Thus the '72- '73 Garnet accepted the runner- up trophy for the second straight year. Siena, meanwhile, which came roaring into the tourney at 5-0 as solid ·favorites\ limped quietly back to Loudonville humbled by two defeats after bowing to RPI in the consolation game, 56-53, its dreams of national attention burst by local talent. Union hobbled through all four games over the . vacation without the services of ace guard ''Villy Carmody who will be out the ~ntire season with a nagging knee injury. Carmody gamely tried to play in the season opener against Middlebury which Union lost 59-53, but was unable to perform without worsening the condition of his knee. by BONNIE HORN The Social Action Committee, headed by Steve Cassella and Frank Isler, consists of a small grou·p of dedicated, concerned, and frustrated college students. Their commitment is to the problems the SAC has attempted to ease, and the frustration results from the constant battle they have to fight against the apathy of the student body. A c(ll11mittee set up basically to alleviate social ills by nature requires a large staff. The SAC bas an active membership of about_ten students. The .. S)\;C -·1~ always open to any · stu!i~nt- tm campus. The pro'blem : oi ·lack of student interest. detracts from the capabilities of the committee, and disheartens and discourages those wh<> do work. The SAC was strongest and most popular during the Cambodia protests in 1970. \Student activism has been dying steadily since the strike of spring~ '70,\ says Steve Cassella. \Students are more interested in college social life than social action.\ He continues, \A key priority of private universities should be · the amelioratibh of social ills by raising students' awareness tht:ough the curriculum, and active participation in .the community.\ The SAC has tried to carry out this goal in various ways. The committee's most successful accomplishment is the Hamilton Hi11 Food Co-op. This ,is a non-profit, community grocery store designed to lessen the burden of food prices for the people who live in the Hamilton Hill section of Schenectady. It was started two years ago by a Union College student and is now run by Schenectady residents. It has an all-volunteer working staff f\'hich is ready at any time to accept and train badly needed volunteer workers. Although Union students are acceptab'le volunteers, the number of workers is negligible. Guerrilla Theater, a kind of mini-show in which people stage fake, war-like offenses and murders to shock people into consciousness, is sponsored by the SAC. Jay O'Brien, in charge of Union's Guerrilla Theater, .believes, \if done effectively, it can be very successful.\ Only a small number of people are necessary to carry out the basically improvised sketch. Guerrilla Theater has, up to this .point, been unsuccessful, due perhaps to the student body's refusal to take it seriously .. Last year, in front of the General Electric .plant, Guerrilla Theater staged a production. At that time, other SAC members, in conjunction with Schenectady Continued on Page3 speculate on the personal responsibilities and the President reactions to him by whomever with the long-term ones, but the may serve on the committee. He distinction between these affairs believes that .. an active and responsibilities is .. ill- administrator steps on toes,\ and defined.\ he wonders how many people he Dr. Enteman feels that much may have offended. depends on how well the He finds most disturbing about President and the Provost can Union its traditional \paranoia- work together personally. He ignorance\ syndrome and its ContinuedonPage3 relation to tlie use of his office - The sound of music: returns to MPmorial thapel next weekend with the ro£'k 'n'ro/1 of Buzzy Linhart and the unique folk sound of Loudon Wainwright Ill in what promises to be a fun-filled and nwmprahle e\'ening r~f song. Tickets for the Friday, January 12 show are available NOW in the Student Al'fivitil's q{fice, priced at only $2 for Union students.

etc., House mass game All are in the hats. at ites all Dec. 2, will be New music, as well College are stivities. Mike 321 eat fun! ing and to • • • • • • . • • • • • • • • • .i . j I I H I! (l founded at Union College in 1877 Vol. 102, No. 19 Friday, January 5, 1973 2() cents Provost Confirms Tenure Rumors; Reflects On Office reasonable system in the best that the community makes. Mike Doyle sends the championship game l~{ the Capital District tournament into ovntime with this foul shot. photo by Bill Erichson by GEORGE BAIN A new proposal for Union's tenure system may be offered to the campus community by a group of faculty members some time this month. Acting Provost Willard F. Enteman confirmed that \apparently things are going on,\ in an interview this week in whictt he reflected on Union College after one term in its Administration. The tenure issue 1s, quite obviously, the issue with \the greatest long-run impact on the College,\ in Enteman's words, and although he would offer no details about his knowledge of any proposals, he said he would suppqrt them \as best I can\ and predicted that \a move may be made in two weeks.\ The Provost is active in the tenure issue, admitting, \I'm trying to do work, and it's hard work.\ His letter which appeared in the Novemo'er 29 issue of ConcordiensisJ was written \to arouse the faculty to think out an alternative tenure system, some Union Tourney Runner -Up Showing aggressiveness and unity not seen ·in its previous games this season, the Union College basketball team came a point away from winning the highly-sought Capital District Crown last Saturday night to highlight a four game vacation schedule. The point was the one they couldn't get to break a 46-46 tie in the waning seconds of the Championship game, in which Albany State, favored over Union, went on to win 57-52 in overtime. Union made it to the finals with a lack-luster 71-66 victory last Friday night over a jittery RPI squad which bobbled up 27 turnovers, while State shocked Siena's \nationally- prominent\ squad, 81-71, in the fast moving, hard-fought preliminary. In its earlier games, Union beat Kings Point 75-70, Dec. 13 while losing to Bridgeport 75-65 the following evening. The game marked the third straight meeting between Union and Albany in the final round of the championship event between the four major colleges in the area. Union was upset in last year's finale by the Great Danes. who in turn had been upset by the Garnet in 1970. Thus the '72- '73 Garnet accepted the runner- up trophy for the second straight year. Siena. meanwhile, which came roaring into the tourney at 5-0 as solid favorites , limped 4uietly back to Loudonville humbled by two defeats after bowing to RPl in the consolation game, 56-53. its dreams of national attention burst by local talent. Union hobbled through all four games over the vacation without the services of ace guard 'Villy Carmody who will be out the ~ntire season with a nagging knee injury. Carmody gamely tried to play in the season opener against Middlebury which Union lost 59-53, but 'Was unable to perform without worsening the condition of his knee. by MARK W. MINDEL Carmody's departure left a large gap in both Coach Gary Walters' offense and defense, while leaving the offense extremely thin at guard and virtually leaderless. Walters, placed in a position of having only converted forward Chuck Abba and Fairfield transfer Luke Dillon at guard, where neither could afford injury or foul trouble, solved his problem two- fold. Talented tri-captain Mike Doyle was used as the third guard to break the press, and flashy John Denio, one of 18 Denio siblings, was brought up from the freshman squad with special permission from NESCAC. Denio did a fine hustling job in the RPI game and seemed to add an extra spark lacking without Continued on Page 4 · SAC Suffers by BONNIE HORN The Social Action Committee, headed by Steve Cassella and Frank Isler, consists of a small group of dedicated, concerned, and frustrated college students. Their commitment is to the problems the SAC has attempted to ease, and the frustration results from the constant battle they have to fight against the apathy of the student body. A cQ.mmittee set up basically to alleviate social ills by nature requires a large stal f. The SAC has an activ·e membership of about ten students. The SAC is always open to any student on campus. The problem of lack of student interest detracts from the capabilities of the committee, and disheartens and discourages those who do work. The SAC was strongest and most popular during the Cambodia protests in 1970. \Student activism has been dying steadily since the strike of spring, '70,\ says Steve Cassella. \Students are more interested in college social life than social action.\ He continues, \A key priority of pri\:ate universities should he the amelioration of social ills hy raising students' awareness through the curriculum, and active participation in the community.\ The SAC has tried to carry out this goal in various ways. The committee's most successful accomplishment is the Hamilton Hill Food Co-op. This is a non-profit, community grocery store designed to lessen the burden of food prices for the people who live in the Hamilton Hill section of Schenectady. It was started two years ago by a Union College student and is now run by Schenectady residents. It has an all-volunteer working staff }Nhich is ready at any time to ·accept and train badly needed volunteer workers. Although Union students arc acceptable volunteers, the number of workers is negligible. Guerrilla TheateL a kind of mini-show in which people stage fake, war-like offenses and murders to shock people into consciousness, is sponsored by the SAC. Jay O'Brien, in charge of Union's Guerrilla Theater, believes. \if done effectively, it can be very successful.\ Only a small number of people are necessary to carry out the basically improvised sketch. Guerrilla Theater has, up to this point- been unsuccessful. due perhaps to the student body's refusal to take it seriously. Last year. in front of the General Electric plant, Guerrilla Theater staged a production. At that time, other SAC members, in conjunction with Schenectady Continued on Page 3 interests of the College.\ He feels Among faculty members, he ttas that the present system does not observed, exists a fear that serve those best interests and that someoll.e is \out to get them,\ but it does not provide any they never rnake an effort to 11exibil,ity. A good system, he discover whom. He is reminded continued, \must advocate of the behavioral patterns of a violation of AAUP standards,\ large university, in which the the seven years up-or-out dictum. divisiona,l structure cuts people lt appears that his letter off from one another and a lack achieved its goal. Dr. Enteman of personaJ communication exists . finds it \very encouraging\ that Whe11 asked who uses the all faculty members working on Provos1's office, Dr. Enteman this new proposal \are going to said tllat a faculty deference the principles. They're not system is in o~eration :- people concerned about themselves but come to see h1m only 1f specific about the College.\ He continued business is at hand. He sees the that these faculty members are same group of students, whether not working to \gerrymander the in his office or at his daily lunch system\ to save themselves - his hour in Hale House . only clue as to the nature of the On the subject of student new proposal. activism, he feels that the present When asked about Professors low level at Union \is not Stephen Berkand David Potts, unusuaL\ In talking to around whose futures student admini~trators of comparable protest centered last term, the schools, he has the impression Provost answered that \it was no that stU(ients everywhere have great shock.\ He had anticipated become more withdrawn. Their the decision not to grant them concerns are only those affairs tenure because of the which \'touch their personal departmental quota and partic~lar interests:\ they are not commented that he \can't lead dealing with academic issues and the faculty now\ on the tenure principles lmt only with their issue, for he is part of the own self-interest. management. \The implicit conservatism is Naturally, that leads one to frighte:nin.g,\ he said and pointed wonder about Dr. Enteman's out a sj>ecific instance on the reaction to his role as Provost camp~. Furniture has been and how he views tb.e function of rem(}ved fr()m the lounges in Fox the office after six months, and and Davi<lson, and no students one school term, on the job. He have tried to intercede and force states he is \ambivalent towards the fu£niture to be returned. No the office,\ pointing ollt the one even stops peQple from contrast between the .. minutiae committing the actual act of of the job\ and the \role of removing tile furniture from the leadership.\ lounges. Whether he will continue for Returning to the nature of the more than one year in office is an Provost's office, he char.acterized unresolved question. Plans call it as the office \in which for a new search committee to administrative problems of locate a permanent Provost, and internal nature are handled, with while the Acting Provost did not extern;alrelations handled by the declare that he is interested in the Presid~nt... The provost also permanent position, he did deals with short-term speculate on the personal responsil>ilities and the President reactions to him by whomever with the long-term ones, but the may serve on the committee. He distinction between these affairs believes that \an active and responsibilities is \ill- administrator steps on toes,\ and define<!.\ he wonders how many people he Dr. Enteman feels that much may have offended. depen<ls on how well the He finds most disturbing about President and the Provost can Union its traditional '\paranoia- work tD,gether personally. He ignorance\ syndrome and its c_oantinuedonPage3 relation to tne use of his office The sound of music returns to !vf enwri(l/ (nape/ ne:JCt weekend v.:ith the ruck'n'rvlf ol Bu:::-r l-inharl and the . . unique folk sound of Loudon Wain1-night Ill in H'hal promises to he a jim-filled and 11lt'll1orahlr e\'Pnin,f? of song. Tickets for the Friday Jam4ary 12 ~how arc a\·ailahle NOW in the Studc>nt A('ridtie.1· (~f(ice. priced at only $2 for Union students

2 CONCORDIENSIS, Fr:irJay, Jall}!ary 5, 1973 -L·etterr To the Editor: Provost Enteman,. in the Concordiensis of November 29, quite rightly pointed out that, although he is responsible for the application of the rules placing a limitation on tenure at Union College, he is not responsible for the formulation of these rules. His decisions are defensible within the constraints imposed upon him, and he should not be blamed for the damge which the rules cause. The practice of granting tenure to faculty members has been in effect for so long that the reasons for its existence are often forgotten and, where not forgotten, are frequently misunderstood. The institution of tenure was formalized in 1940 jointly by the American Associatio-n of University Professors and the Association of American Colleges in an effort to protect the freedom of the teacher to supply information and express opinions without fear of punitive retaliation. Even with such rules there are still a half a dozen or more published cases a year of punitive dismissals because of the expression of unpopular ideas. And for each case of overt violation, there are many more sub rosa repressions just because of the existence of the threat of dismissal. Most · of the·\ repressions can be traced to Boards of Trustees, who react to community pressures, to government pre.>sures (as in the McCarthy era), to their own prejudices, or to the wish to protect economic patterns they see as sacred. Only those teachers who are confident that they will always be able to adjust their opinions to • the prevailing mood need have no fear of the threat of dismissal. Although' in my quarter- century at Union College the faculty has been free of overt attempts at repression (there have been one or two successful repressions of student expression), trustees and administrations change, and, without safeguards, the future! need not imitate the past, especially considering the. atmosphere of repression developing in our government and in society. 1 The development and: expression of new th<?~gh~ often involvc;s risk af .:::ommunity disapproval, but th~ life of society depends 'On such creativity. 'The ex..istence of a threat of puni~hr:nent for unpopular ideas puts a damper on creativity, whether the tht:eat is carried out or 111ot. A study made at another .'la=rge institution found that creatiNe. i<ieas came from the tenured iac-ulty much more than from the untenured, who were· instinctively more cautious and unwill:Jng to go out on a limb with possible offensive proposals. In my years on ca.lle~e faculties I have been impressed with the rarity with which job security, inherent in the te:nu:re system, induces sloth, Teaching, more than many realize, is a group activity, in which the tendency toward sloth is inhi bited by peer' pressure. The te~ure system, he wever, does I»ro vide for dismissal for cause, and such dismissals have occurred. Sometimes they are by mutual agreement (l participated, as an observer for the A.AUP, in one such), but when they are challenged, a jury (}of peers much be convinced of the credibility of the chargds requi~i-:ng dismissal. There is thus some :.ssurance that . a dismissal is for 'bona fide ' reasons and not 'Jindictive or punitive. That few d:isnsiss.als have occurred, however, is not. in my _opinion;. · due to the difficulty of dismissal, but to tbe care with which selection ()f personnel is made in the first place. I have watched initial a..pp'Ointments made after quite So()U)-'searching interviews, and it is a most unusual candidate ,-vho, -through seven years of prob~tion, can conceal faults which. sl'lould later lead to his dismissaL The present system at Union College for making tenure doeci sions is exc;eedingly rigorous.,. but even in earlier decades, l'w'hen . tenure decisions were ~made within departments, there were many probationary appoint mertts which, because of demonstrated' inadequacies, did not reach the tenure level. It is \\'lorth rtoting 'that Union College,. during the SO's and 6()'s, ranked academically near the tQp among all institutions of big::her learning, large and small. The probationary ]Jeriod is not just a period of exallllination for fitness; it is also a training period for young men (:ntering the profession of teachilk:g. To throw CONCORDIE'SS founded at Union College in 1877 Editor-in-Chief ........................ Geor~e Bain News Editor ............................ _ TLm Cain Managing Editors .................... Rita tv1orandi Dave S1rO\m Features Editor .......................... AL Reisch Sports Editor .. . . . . . . . .. .......... Bruce Batchelder Pboto Editors .......................... Les Xernan Jeff W'eilburg Business Manager ................. M'ichael J, Hurley National Advertising .................. Stepheon Kelly Subscriptions .................. ; .... Mike Bern.stein Contributing Editors ..............• Peter Bicl<eri:nan Concordiensis announces the Strom, '76, as a Managing Rostenberg, '75. Office Staff illyria Puharich Doug Carpenter Louis S .. Snitkoff appointment of David Editor, replacing Jim Gary Lovett Phil Alcabes Bill West foncordiensis is ruhhshed I.'~Cf). fucsda) aild Frida) dui'ing the 'd'.Jnoil )~ar except duringl.'xaminatinn and 1acatinn pcrinds h1 thtt stud,·nt hnd1 uf.l 'nioH1 College. · S<:hcncctad). :\\. Y. \ational ad1 ntisit;g l'l'Jll'l\'<'nt:tii\ c: \at ional Educatiunal /\d1crtising Scnicc. Inc. Cnlkf.c Puhlishcrs R<.'prc,..,•ntaltlt:. !\'atiomtl F.dm:utinnal Ad1crtising Sen ic,·. In,·., '\. Y.C. hlit<ll'ial Ol'lkc·. Old · Gym. llni~tn Cnllcgc. Puhlicaiitm <.,ffil'C'. I he .lc\1 tsh World l'ttlllicatt:nn'. 771 State Street. Schcncctltdy. ~.Y. 12307. J46-~JS6. l'ntt.'rcd 111 the Sch ... '.lt.><.:talh post uflice.;ts Second Class Mail !\1aucr.Sitt>scription .:!0 cents a C<>(l) .. );~ a )c:t-r deliVered an~·\\ here in the United Stall's. Deadline for all CQfl}. which must hn}ped :1nd douhk•·spacL'd. b 1 p:ltl. <Ill Monday and Thursda~ lit the ('oncord)· uffie\c. :rho\t: Old Chapd Office telephtlnc numhcr ~' J70-lll55. hllt thl' ,,n IL't' '' , •nl.\ in !l't' t\11 \1, mla' and Thursday nights. f'ot all cditori;llmallers . .:all !lh .-.tlnr-IIH.:Iuct at .N.i. 1640; for informafion call Student Actilitics OiTil't• at .l70-6liX. out a man after seven years- of training and clear demonstration of ability is a terrible waste of college resources as well as a . horrible injustice to the individual. If a man is clearly of high quality, suitable to a place on the faculty, the .college should be proud to grant him the tenure he deserves, to encourage and stimulate him in his work. The quality of the college· can only suffer by dismissing such a man and replacing him with a,n· untried and inexperienc.ed beginner. I see no justification for any arbitrary limitation on the number of tenured faculty. Such arbitrary limitation damages the college and short- changes the students in the education they seek. .enmeshed ·in the total coll~ge· experience aod all it has to offer, and free to express myself as f' see fit (and let's not fo~:get the rights -of others which, as I emphasize by the open window, soft music, side room, reasonable hour, etc., were not in the least being disturbed.) I see myself secure for the time being, free to grow in a liberal atmesphere .. And then the illusion is shattered, From newhete comes the startling realization that someone is looking after me ... and I don't want to be looked after. As for the \high administrative officials,\ are they ignorant? I don't think so. If they enter dorms unexpectedly, I'm sure· they're smart enough to know what's going on. But who's this guy looking afte~ them? Do they realize they're being looked after ... and they may not want to be looked after? Am l to be cleaned and dressed up before someone comes to inspect my ,floor, like some juvenile in reform school? ls this a police state where pseudo-authority- can glare menacingly at the common people and take action to set them on the right path again? Apparently someone thinks so,' and this frightens me. I paid a considerable sum to live in- my suite, and i thought that I could live with no hassles as long as I hassled no one. When l'm getting high in a friend's room and someone who doesn't belong there comes in and threatens to bust me, it brings my head right down. Confrontations like this disturb me, and I would rather see it as case where an RA over extended himself. But, as l try to elevate myself again, .a throbbing question screams for an answer: Who is going to be knocking on my door next time? Th!s guy is still walking around, and . God oply knows what he'll do next. * * To the Editor: Sincerely; John Pizzuto '75 I just heard about art idea thev are trying at the University of IUinois at Urbana to improve the quality of instruction ~ ·it's a simple idea but it seems to he a useful one: Anytime a student is having trouble with a -course because of poor instructional methods, and for one reason or another that student · does not want to confront fhe instructor with his complaint; the student contacts the Student .to Teather Action- Fast Feedback (S.T.A.F.f.) office and registers his complaint. STAFF (which is ru·n by'· students) then tries to find a solution to the problem from · their files or from .a board of \expert\ instructors; and then forwards the complaint and the solution (rapidly, objectively, and confidentially) to the instructor involved. If anyone would like more inforrnation about the ideit please contact me. Daniel A. Ptiscoll Electrical Engineeriug l)ept. * * * \' The financial benefit of the tenure system to the college has not been given the attention it deserves. Many a present faculty member came to the teaching profession, and particularly to Union College, at a lower salary than he could have received elsewhere because of the policy of tenure. He chose teaching, not just for the job security, but for the human dignity and respect that tenure implies. Tenure gives the college a competitive advantage in the marketplace for personnel frem which it has realized. several millions of dollars in salary savings over the postwar years and without which it could not have survived during these years. Such savings, with proper management, should more than compensate for the rare cases where temporary changes in curricular patterns reduce the work load in some areas. W.M. Schwarz President, Union College AAUP Graduation Date: 6/73 * * * * To the Editor: I was sitting in a friend's room. one evening late last term, after 11 p.m., with several people toking. _We weren't in the middle room of .these four man suites; we were in one of those narrow bedrooms with the window wide open. The Dead were playing \Morning Dew\ from the new live album, softly, and as I sat there watching the smoke float out the window, blissfully high, all of a sudden, from nowhere comes a knocking at the door and in walks this six foot plus giant who looks very pissed. It was something right out of Franz Kafka. He told us in no uncertain terms that if we didn't watch it, he would personally bust us (he's an RA). \That smell\ he sneered; \is in the hall, and there are some high administrative officials walking around\. So what the hell am I supposed to do? Not one of the thirty-one students on the floor has ever complained about the smell .of pot (which does not come solely from this one room, needless to say). Should I run out into the hall with a large can of Lysol and deodorize the place? Or should I say, \Hey screw you, buddy, I live here?\ Well, in light of the fact that this guy is over six foot tall and looks mean as a bastard, I eschew the latter. As for attempts to reason with the .gentleman, a friend of mine began to assert very mildly that we were in the side room and that. .. \Don't argue with me,\ he snapped. Conceding that he'd get killed in a fight, iny friend became quiet. Finally the guy left. I was really bummed out. So now a few thoUghts come into my head. Here I am in this hallmark of higher learning, by MATTHEW SWARTZ The New Year's Eve party I got stewed at on the last night of December 1972 looked like a scene out of the movie directed . by T od Browning. Not in the . sense that so many of the people were physical freaks, although I wondered at some length abo11t several, but rather the assortment was what impressed me ahd my ethanolled consciousness., If I didn't get so bombed, I'd swear that I heard a wrinkled but nonetheless well-preserved ancient, attired in full dress blues and decorated with a rainbow of commemorative ribbons and one \Nixon Now\ button, discussing . war tactics and specific battle victories from World War I with several of my long-hair colleagues. \Mighty right,\ · he insisted and, you know what, no one argued. \We've got to stop them where they crawl, dammit. Sink the Goddamn lot of them in the ocean I say.\ My jaw dropped but I left my voice home. ..If we bombed them five years ago like we are now, with a real will to win, we wouldn't be there now. Hell, there wouldn't be any place to be. Just a great big mud puddle. I never heard anything so stupid as the way we were fighting there all these years. For God's sake, that war should have ended before it started. One bomb, I tell you, just one big blast. Back to the Stone Age. lf you ask me, they never got any tevfs Dave's· Mens Shop. 453 State St. (downtown Schenectady) 'LUIGI'S RESTAURANT SPECIALIZING IN Italian .. American Food 1125 BARRETT ST. SCHENECTADY 016-97 44 · En/oy Sizzling Steaks and Chops Visit Our Cocktail Bar- further than that anyway,\ No one did. Some party, huh? Afterwards, having run home for my v.oice while my hostess refilled my glass,_ 1 spoke with one of the fellows that stood witness to what I considered a maniacal diatribe. His reaction to the old soldier was vindictive. \The old fart sounds like my old man.\ At first I thought the kid was a queer ... Yeah, it seems that ever~'time I sit down to a meal with him and he finishes telling me that I am endangering the entire family's health by wearing my hair so long, he talks about Vietnam a.nd the important fight for freedom that we're executing. He thinks it's a Crusade and I'm not even sure whether you spell the country as one word or two.\ Must be a pre- med, I concluded. \Yeah brother, do I know how YoU feel! The dilemma seems relentless,\ I empathized rather than feed the fire. '\What can you do? Start calllpaigning for McGovern again?'' Good way of putting it, I thought, even if I thought se myself. \Campaign my butt. That's a scream.\ .l didn't laugh. \You know, Matt, you really break me up.\ I figured by now that he couldn't be queer, he had too good a sense of humor. ••1 didn't even vote,\ he electro-shocked me. My jaw dropped and IllY voice left before I could get my coat Happy New Year. PROCTOR'S ~~f1~~ · STAT£ ST .. SCHENEGT l1il·t COMING ~ansel & Gretel Sword and Stone Lacly Sings the Blues

over 1 try to answer: king on guy is . God '75 they of the ·it's a be a having of and that :to his Action- by'· find a from of then the and more please g Dept. No home with stood a to ke my the seems to a by e talks the that it's a sure as a pre- know lemma \What way if I a \You me he too didn't voice .,, . '• ... CONCORDIENSIS, Friday, January 5, 1973 3 Union's 1973' concert schedule will commence Friday, January 12, with performances by folk- artist J,oudon Wainwtight HI ao4 . rocker B-uzzy Linhart in Memorial Chapel. Tickets for the 8:30 concert, available now in the Student Activities Office, are $2.00 for Union students· and $3.00 for all others. The Social Committee will also be pre!!enting Merry Clayton, whose soul-rock sli 0 w will be preceded by comedian· Robert Klein on January 27.. A final concert is planned for February 24 featuring the Mark Almond Band. Reduced-price season tickets .are now on sale in the Student Activities Office. Tickets are ·only $5,00 for the three concerts, a savings of $1.50 over regu:lar prices. KEEP~FIT CLASSES K.eep.,.fit classes, in~luding exercising to music, wiU be given twice a week in the wrestling room. Scammon Speaks . At Political Forum . * • • * The Department of Physical Education announces basic ski instruction (a minimum .of 25 students needed for this progt'am). Place: West Mountain, Glens Falls, N.Y., West Moun;tain Road. Hours: 7:00p.m. to 11:00 p.m.; Tuesdays, beginning January 16, 1973. Monday 12:30 p.m.-1:30 p.m. Thursday 12:30 p.m.- I :30 p.m. Begins Jan. 15th. Anyone interested please sign up in the gymnasillm office. * '* * * Pre•law: Residents of Nassau County entering law school in the Fail of 1973 may apply f.or a James N .. MacLe1:1n Schoiarship, See Professo'r Da:itiels in S S 216a for details. * * *' * The Security Office stiH maintains the campus Lost and Found and has a collection of sneakers, watches, 'books, and other sundries, which may be c!~;timed upon p r.o per identification. * * :1< * Second-story iheater, in conjunction with the Mountebanks, .presents The Wizard of Oz, a ra:gtime musical: -· by TIM CAIN The Political Forum carries on its activities on a n~ther meager budg.et. So n·aturally the members of that organization are always alert to the po_ssibi'lity of engaging speakers who are willing to come to Union and speak for little or no remuneration. Just such an opportunity presented itself when it was learned that Richard Scammon was, going to speak at a local high school on a Monday night early last December. The Political Forum, in conjunction with the Political Science Department, managed to convince Scammon it would be a great idea to come over to Union on that cold, snowy Monday afternoon, the first day of our exam week, to speak to an undetermined number of Union College students. Richard Scammon is what is known as a . \noted political analyst.\ He is also an author, h.(lving turned out volumes of reference works on how Americans have voted in every major election in the last few decades. His most recent book is called The Real Majority (a book which he encourages everyone to buy, as he gets .12¢ a copy). About forty-five people filled Hale House Lounge that Monday afternoon to listen to Scammon talk about the subject with which he is most familiar - American electoral politics. Scammon spoke first for about ten minutes in order to put the .J 972 Presidential election \into perspective.\ This election year, Scammon said, saw thr~e events and three non-i:vents. The three events were: 1) The enhancement of. Presidential leadership through the wage-price freeze and the trips to· Moscow and Peking. These were enough to re- establish a \glowing view of the Presidency.\ 2) The nomination of George McGovern. 3) The shooting of Governor Wallace, which made impossible any populist rightist vote., The three non-events were as follows: First of all, the economy did not go to Lessons: 2 hours duration per · week for 5 weeks (followed by 2 hrs. free skiing). Rental equipment: Available at ski area. Sunday, January 14, at 2 p.m. and 8 p.m. in Nott Memorial Theater. Tickets ~ill go on s1i'le Monday in the Nott box office (afternoons after 1 p.m.): Union students free, rit>nstudents 50¢. All day Sunday there will he an exhibit of the masks used in the productioo and demonstrations of mask-making; 1echnlques. After each production, the audience will be invited to participate in a movement workshop; if yo11 ·want to join, you're advised t() wear loose- fitting clothing. Seating is limited, so please reserve your tickets early. SAC Suffers Bus service provided: Leaving from West College Parking lot. Time: 5:45 p.m. Costs: Lift fee $3.00; lesson fee $2.00; Rental fee $2,00 (skis, boots, poles); Bus fee $2.00. Lift, rental and lesson fees for the season will be payable Tuesday, January 16th (total $35,00) at the Ski Area. Bus fee payable on or before Friday, January 12, 1973 in Department of Physical Education Office (total $10.00). * * * * . * * .... if< ' There will be .an important organizational meeting of the . photography staff of the Concordiensis on Monday, January 8, at 7:15 m the Concordy office. It is requested that any current staff member who wishes to remain on the staff attend, and new members are welcome. · Mounties' Hamlet On Monday, Jan. 8 and action but develops through the Tuesday, Jan. 9 ·from 7:30 to juxtaposition of scene.s 10:30 both nights, auditions will illuminating the relationships be held for a Mountebanks :between the characters at production of The Marowitz. Elsinore .as perceived by Hamlet. Hamlet, to be directed by Bob The play thus produces an image Harders. Anyone interested can or impression rather than a story. sign up for an audition in The If you look-the script over and Green Room of the Nott find that t:here are things which Memorial. you don't understand and which It is very safe to say that The confuse you, that\s fine. Out of Marowitz Hamlet is an the rehearsal process we will adaptation of Shakespeare's discover what. this. .play \means\ Hamlet. Charles Marowitz, the for us. One thi11.,g we are not author (or adaptor), has interested in is a scholarly exclusively used Shakespeare's interpretation of llamlet. This lines in creating this script. play i!i about a man and certain How.ever, in many cases, lines forces which inflllence him; he have been reassigned to different just happens to be called Hamlet. characters and some characters if you have acting experience or have, in fact, been totally not .and would lik:e to be a part removed. The play is structured of the group th~t explores the as a \theatrical collage\ which many possibilities of this play means that it does n~t progress you are more than welcome to chr'ono!ogically .along a line of audition. BOULEY ARD ~$OWL ~ : . ! 1315 Erie Blvd. 40 AMF BOWLING LANES 374-4171 Bowl for Health ·MAMA s·JANCHI'S _RESTAURANT 1135 B•ratt··st. ·-leal Italian Food- :Cooked Te Onler .. Continued from Page 1 Peace Center workers, gave out leaflets and information to the Gc employees. The purpose of the GE Project was two-fold: to raise the awareness of the workers of GE's war material production, and to effect a protest from the employees to GE administrators to halt or ease such production. The GE Project has failed. On-campus act1V1t1es have dealt extensively with political issues. Before the election, the SAC did much anti-Nixon campaigning, using such methods as leafletting, canvassing, demonstrating, and, most effective of all, presenting an air- war slide show, depicting anti- personnel weapons being used in Southeast Asia and the vast extent of the air-war. The focus of election campmgnmg was definitely steered away from pro- McGovern activity, in an attempt to avoid alienating voters. Several of the speakers Union College has presented were engaged by the SAC. Jane Fonda and Tom Hayden came to Union t through the combined efforts of the SAC and the Schenectady Peace Center. William Sloane Coffin, a chaplain at Yale University, gave an a,nti-war speech in which he discussed his trip to North Vietnam. Beulah. Sanders gave a fiery, but disorganized, anti-Nixon speech about racism and Vietnam. The turnout for the last two speeches was minimal compared to th~ huge. crowd Jane Fonda and ,Provost Continued from Pa~e 1' feels that he and Dr. Martin have· been successful in their relation. The Provost would like to spend more time with students on other than just decision- making visits. He still teaches one course per term, two this year in his field of philosophy and one, -this winter, in C~!!!i>~~ensive Educati~!l· ' ' - . NEWEST LUNCH For the best hot dogs and sauce in town. · M-F 8 a.m.•2 a.m. Weekends 8 a.m.-4 a;m. We Cater .. to···Students The Friendliest Plac,e in Town 715 Albany St. IPE T I A . L. Fu,R:,::I•:-:'I~IIII;:....:SA:;,:;.. ':..;·---- ·'':·I -·3·4·6·.94·2·4 -- i j . ... -_ Tom Hayden drew. The SAC realizes this to have been another reflection of the apathy the student body has in political matters. The upcoming plans of the SAC are numerous. A movie called Overkill, Overrun will be shown. The SAC intends to continue work they have already begun on racism at Union College. They want Union to ha'Ve a greater cross-section of society, to remedy the lack of diversity in the student body. David Bradshaw will speak on welfare rights and aid to dependent children as part of a plan to take up the welfare problem. The lettuce boycott may also be dealt with. The SAC is aware that the problems are endless, and that more people are needed before any great effect can be achieved. \We have been trying to act as a tunnelling organization. If a student is interested in doing some sort of social service, we try to help him find work within the community,'' says Steve Cassella. The problem of the Social Action Committee is to encourage the students' social awareness enough that they are able to gain the strength to become truly effective in serving the community. Levrs Dave's Mens Shop 453 State St. (downtown Schenectady) Maurice B. Graubort & Sons For three Generations · 16 . 6 J ·y St. For Honest Servi ~ . a And Good Jewelry . HE·Ck'$~'~ : . Travel &reau . MOHAWK MALL l70-0824 • ISl Barrett St. ,346-3431 hell. Secondly, ''the armies of Hanoi did not march through ·saigon .shepherding 1100 POW's in front of them.\ And finally, the \New Politics or New Math flunked. The kids did not turn out in rec~rd numbers to vote for McGovern.\ Mr. Scammon said that it is useful to think of the 1972 election as actually consisting of two separate elections - \a two- track election.\ McGovern vs. Nixon was one separate election; \everything else\ made up the rest of the election news in I 972. These two different, parallel worlds of ·. elections, Scammon said, were being fought on two different levels. In order to illustrate this idea of the \Two- Track flection,\ Scammon used the Polish-American Clubs of Erie, Pennsylvania as an example. These clubs endorsed all the appropriate Democratic candidates up to the Presidency. At that point, the clubs decided they would not endorse anyone for the Presidency. The whole McGovern can- didacy, Scammon emphasized, was a minority affair. \I can't thin;k that Jackson, Humphrey, or another centrist candidate would not have done better,\ he said. \Almost any of them would have done better. They would not have had the hemorrhaging of the middle-of-the-road voters.\ In response to a question from the audience Scammon explained why McGovern, although a \'minority candidate,\ still managed to win several primaries and eventually captured the nomination. The basic reason for McGovern's success, Scammon said, were the \zealots\ who provided the impetus, the inspiration, and the hard work behind the McGovern candidacy. The McGovern zealots · .. organized, dedicated, ' and committed themselves to the work at hand. They convinced themselves they were going to win; they refused to believe they were wrong. They wanted to believe they were going to win.\ After the brief introductory statement, Scammon answered questions for about an hour. His presentation and responses to questions were often tinged with humor and accompanied by anecdotes to illustrate a point. He is a large man, affable, and very likable. His immense knowledge of American electoral politics is enviable and impressive. Perhaps what is even more impressive is the fact that his presentation is refreshingly free of ideological cant. ···- MCAT -DAT-GRE LSAT-ATGSB ·ocAT NAT'l. BDS. • Preparartion for tests required for admissiDn to graduate and profes- sional schools • Six and twelve session courses • Small groups •volumi11ous material for home stud~ prepared by experts in each field •Lesson schedule can be tailored to meet individual needs. Lessons can be Spread over a period of several months to a year. or for out of town students, a period t-. of one week •Opportunity-for review of past lessons via tape at the center . Special Compact Courses during Weekends - lntersesions Summer Sessions STANLEY H. KAPLAN EDUCATIONAL CENTER LTD. , ....... ~--·· u 42121336-5300 ~ . . C5161538 4566 !)A VS. EVENINGS, WEEKENDS 1 Branche• in Major Cities In UoS.A. ,ne ra...n.,~'oeltoidiiMNaliott..,.. R..,.llstiN . . ' I

4 Friday, January 5, 1973 ·De\io May Replace Lost Carm·ody; Hoop at 2 • 3 Coniiiiued froin Page 1 Jim Tedisco or Carmody. If he is permitted to play varsity for the remainder of the season he will bring needed ·depth to the backcourt. Dillon grabbed the rebound\ play. Doyle continually tapped back by Bacher and outhustled a much taller Union scrambled for a final shot. Bridgeport front-line for the But State's pressuring defense rebound and made some kept Union from peaetrating sparkling drives around their anywhere near the basket and guards. Tom Bacher added Abba, who played two of the thirteen points and Chuck Abba . ?est games of his college career scoved all eight of his points in m. the tourney, threw up. a l~ng the final fifty seconds to make thirty footer at .the buzzer WhiCh the score more bearable. miss~d. . Union tries to get back on the With Sr~uth fo~led . o.ut and winning track this Saturday Quattrocchi and M1ller w1th four· against new opponent Clark. fouls ea~h, ~tate's crown looked Clark is 2-5 this year, but has to be m Jeopardy. Also the played without last year's leading <!a~net. were not. yet over the scorer, who is returning to action hm1t Wlth fouls while State was. for the Unian game. However, the Great Danes Luke Dillon and Mike Doyle dejmd again.vt RPI in the Capital District tourney. photo by Bill Etichson The championship game was a battle from the outset. Union surprised State by opening in a tight zone defense. John Quattrocchi, the captain and floor leader of the State quintet, was kept outside by Dillon and Doyle and could not drive without charging. In fact, State's big guns, Quattrocchi, {named MVP for the tourney) Byron Miller (last year's MVP) and Reggie Smith drew at least 8 charging violations in the first half alone. With their driving game shut off, State went for the long jumpers, which had killed Siena the night . before, but their shooting was cold. controlled the overtime from the tap and jumped out to a quick five point lead on a long jumper and a three point play, while shutting out Union for nearly three and a half minutes. Doyle Holiday Bowl Games With the Great Danes in foul trouble (State went over the penalty ,limit with over I 0 minutes trs:maining in the frrst half), Unioh was in a one and one situation every time State · fouled the Garnet. Still, State managed to build a commanding 30-21 lead at the h.a~f. l!nipn's pr~blem was simple. They could not penetrate State's tough defense and they could not buy a foul shot. Union missed four consecutive one and one's in the first half, a possible eight points . and wound up shooting a borrible 12-22 from the line for the night. The Garnet were not to be denied, though. Coming out in the second half in a tough, pressing man-to-man defen§e, whi'Ch · kept the Gr.eat Panes scoreless for a good part of the half, and allowed ()nly 16 points for the twenty minute span. Slowly, the Dutchmen chipped away at the lead. Abba hit two quick 20 footers to trim. the score . .to 30-25 but Union could not seem to get momentum going on offense. With twelve minutes remaining a hard-driving lay.:up by Doyle made it 34-30, Albany, but Miller answered with two free throws to make it 36-30 .. With Quattrocchi and Smith benched with four personals, the Garnet carne alive by rolling up eight straight points to take a 38- 36 lead. Abba and Dillon cashed in on twenty-footers, while Doyle and Bacher chipped in from under the boards. Quattrocchi checked' back in and hit a long jumper to knot the score at 38 apiece with eight 1pinutes left, but Doyle hit from inside and Tom \Beener\ Combs hit on a long bomb for a 42-38 Union lead. The Great Danes defense, which ranked high last year among the nation's small colleges, went to tht:ir strength, the man-ta.-man, and held Union at bay, allowing only three points in. the final six minutes. Meanwhile, Bob Rossi, who teamed with Jimmy Tedisco at Bishop Gibbons, threw in some long jumpers to forge State into a 46-45 lead with I :40 left. • Hectic play and a Union turnover gave the ball to State and Quattrocchi seemed intent on .dribbling out the clock. But an errant pass resulted in a mad scramble for the ball at mid- court, .where Doyle was fouled with twenty seconds remaining. Mike went to the line for a pressure one and one and made the first to tie the score but missed the second attempt. Luke made two free throws with thirteen seconds left to pull In the past, the New Year's Union to within three. Doyle, weekend has been synonomous from Linton like Abba, collected with partying. Recent years have 20 points and 20 rebounds for been no exception, but in , one of his best games. Both made addition, football has become an the all-tourney squad. integral part of this traditional Quattrocchi, perhaps the best weekend. LatelY., the television foul· shooter in tjle area in quite networks have hit the viewers some time,.dribbled the ball until with a non-stop barrage of fouled and converted the one and college and professional football one to close the game at 57-52. on this holiday. It's not too far . The Kings Point game saw a fetched to believe that this somewhat disorganized Union development could lead to the squad attempting to gather demise of football's vast confidence after the exam break. popularity, due to what is known Union forged to a 33-28 halftime as .over-exposure. In contests lead in front of . a surprisingly ranging from the Sun Bowl to dominant pro-Union crowd. the EastWest Shrine game to the Tom Bacher,.who- wWndi.up.with .prof<:ssional playoffs, football game honors with 26 .points, hit seemed t9 be on view almost 24 six straight turn-around jumpers hours a day on the New Year's to forge the Union . lead. Luke weekend. The major 1\etworks :Dillon, who scored a season·high saw to that by juggljng around 17, also had a fine first half. theix: gallles, and in avoiding , KingS Point ~ctWl.Jly grabbe,d head to head competitio,n on the the lead at 36-35 · with ·18:00 screen· they created continuous minutes re~ainiJJg, but a T J football. swisher at 17:45 put the game F.or example, ABC ·shifted the away for good. Union ])uilt as Sugar Bowl to New Year's Eve so much as a 13-point lead. A last~ as not to conffict .with the ditch Mariner press cut the lead stronger drawing card of CBS, to 68-64, but Geoff Walker hit the Cotton Bowl. This forced the nine out of ten foul shots in the promoters and televisors ·Of the last ten minutes to ice the game. Astra-Bluebonnet Bowl to move Walker wound up with 13 points from New Year's Eve to the while Doyle added 10. pr~ceding evening, so that At Bridgeport, Mike Doyle, prospective fans would not be . who scored 22 points and hauled lost to the Sugar Bowl. down 12 rebounds, looked like · Maneuvering such as this has the only Dutchman who came to caused a negative reaction among Frosh Hoop by BILLY THE KID and LITTLE LEE The freshman basketball team has gotten off to a good start this season, as they have recorded consecutive victories over squads from R.P.I. and. Adirondack Community College. Due to the fact that several team members have quit the team for various personal reasons, the team is short on members but still long on talent. Center John Raymond has emerged_ as the most pleasant surprise for Coach Scanlon. Although he was a questionalbe starter in the opening games, he has led the team in scoring, averaging 18 points !Jer game. Forwards Steve Kelly and Bill Coppula have helped Raymond battle taller opponents· off the boards and have demonstrated tevrs Dave's' Mens Shop 453 State St. (downtown Schenectady) the ability to score in double figures. ·The backcourt is presently in a state of transition, now that John Denio has been promoted to varsity in order to fill the gap left as a result of a knee injury to Bill Carmody. Bill Henson has occupied one guard position and the recent vacancy will probably be filled by\ Mark Gillum and Mark Glazer. The freshmen will put their undefeated record on the line Saturday night, as they tangle with Clark. The game will be played at home, preceding the varsity contest. Purity Isabella s ·t:Ji\ '';& ~ . . 1. ~ PHARMACY, ONC. 'i Accuracy 527 Union St. Schenectady N.Y. Ph. 370-2300 WELCOME UNION STUDENTS by BILLY DllBEAR many fans who feel that if this January 1st, the Cotton Bowl~ continues to occur, interest in which produced the day~s lone football may begin to wane. upset, was on display. Behind the This is by .no means a second half running of Roosevelt condemnation of the sport, for Leaks and Alan .Lowry, Te)i:as the calibre of play has probably upset Alabama, in what bas increased, especially among the become an annual Texas home top colleges, which seem to game. operate in a manner similar to ln the Orange Bowl, Johnny that of the pros. Although it is Rogers substa.ntiated l!is difficult to sift through the many selection as Heisman Trophy ... teams. and distinguish among the winner by sc:oring four' hundreds of .players, some talent touchdowns and throwing for did show through. . another as Nebraska demolished In t~prpfessional playoffs the Notre Dame. · But ·the . Miami.. _D~,>lphins <tefended their .performance .of tbe day belon.ged . perfect record by defeating an not to Rogers, but to the Trojans· excellent Pittsburgh Steeler team of Southern California. On the in a close contest. . It . was strength of 35 second.,.half points,. apparent, however, that they will the nation's number one .team, be hard pressed to defeat the crushed Ohio State in the R<>se Washington .l{edskins in the Bowl, thus becoming possibly. the Super . Bowl, , especially without first 12..0 team in college histvry the full. services of quart~rback and perhaps the finest ever. The flob Gr.i~s.~. This became obvious eJ(pertise exhibited at e:very after Washin8ton·s· decisive 26-3 . position coulc:J. leave one to.-·-', thrashing of the defe.nding speculate that t~ey could nClld . champion Dallas Cowb 0 ys. The their· own against the wors.t Sup~r Bowl should be a very proteams. The only· questionable interesting contest, and will not. decision of the game was the have to contend with· a myriad of selection of fullback . S-am other games, for the college Cunningham as Most Valuable season should have ende9 by Player .. Although he tallied four then. times to set a Rose Rowl rec()rd, The major college bowl games, this would not have been possible which seem to entail the same without the running of Tony group of schools each season, Davis and the outstanding provided very few surprises. It passing of quarterback Mike must have been an uneventful Rae, who always seems to be New Year's Eve in New Orleans, deserving of accolades, · but for nothing else could explain always overlooked. why 80,000 turned up at the For those who haven't been Sugar Bowl to witness completely satiated by all of Oklahoma's 14-0 victory over these games, there is still the Penn State. in what amounted to January 14th Super Bowl and a boring game. For those who various college all-star gan1es to · arose by early afternoon on be seen in the next tWo weeks. RESEARCH MATERIALS All Topics · Send for your descriptive, up-to·date 128-page, mail order catalog of 2,300 quality research papers. Enclose · $1.00 to cover postage and handling. RESEARCH UNLIMITED 519 GLENROCK AVE., SUITE 203 LOS ANGELES, CALIF. 90024 (213) 477-8474 • 477~5493 \We need a local salesman\ 167 Jay St. -RELAX-. PLAY POOL FIVE ROOM$. AVAILABLE FOR PARTIES ANI) BANQUETS Fealuring Italian-American Cuisine mol~el' :lerro ; lejtauranl 1115 BARRETT STREET SCHENECTADY,, N.Y. FREE PARKING Tel Di6-9554or FR1•2642 OPEN 7 DAYS A WEEK Favored By The Union Athletic Teams!

lone the sevelt .has home .h·is .. fou·r' f9r ·the. the R<>se the- The every .to .. ·- ·, h<>ld' nable the Sam four Tony Mike be but beefi of the and to· •• • • •• I • • •· • • I • ... • • founded at Union College in 1877 Fri:day's .. :Conc·e:rt: toudon, Linhart 'by ROBERT SHUGOLL When Loudon Wainwright I:ll comes to Memorial Chapel this Friday he'll be accompanied by acclaim bestowed upon him by music critics. Starting with his 1970 New York debut at the Gaslight, and continuing through his three record album.s, Loudon has been widely lab'\led as the next folk superstar. . ~ Tuesday., January 9, 1973 Proj: Willard Roth photo by Jeff Weilburg 20 cents Library Addition Still Planned by LOUIS S. SNITKOFF The long-planned Schaeffer Library extension, despite some recent doubt about its feasibility, may become a reality next summer. David J. Lamb, Director of Development, was optimistic concerning the future of the proposed new wing in an interview wit:h Concordiensis last week. The Kresge Foundation, he said, has renewed Union's application for a $250,000 grant Granted, \uniqu¢\ is an often misused word. in describing musicians, but the.re's no denying that Loudon brings a fresh and extremely original style into his music. Most of the guitarist's songs are ·autobiographical, and whiie his earlier emphasis was on biting .cracks at typical human situations, he's now added a marvelous wit to his lyrics. The Pre-Med Syndrome to be used toward the construction of the new facility, with the only condition on Union's eligibility being that the school raise - by June 30, 1973 - the balance . of the funds needed to complete the project. The estimated cost of the extension, according to Lamb, is $1,950,000 and if Union is able to raise all but the Kresge portion of that sum by next June, construction will begin during the summer. If not, no one is quite sure what will happen. At this point, said Lamb, fu11d ratsmg drives have netted somewhat less than $1 million and he expects .. that the College will be able to meet the Kresge deadline.\ Until now, he said, many doMrs and prospective donors have remai,ned anonymous, but the Public Relations Office plans to release further information in the coming weeks. On his latest album release, enti.tled Album Ill, his first for Columbia Records, Wainwright makes a switch from acoustic tunes to electric, adding still another dimension 'to his performance. On the album he included a six-piece band called White Cloud .to back him up, because, as Loudon says, \I'm bored with acoustic.\ On. AJbu\- 1U Loudon sings of subjects like a dead skunk stink-ing--in --the- · middle · of the road, his destruction of two guitars in Peter Townsend fashion, bumming out oyer his inability to write a song, and. the story ef a bee~s life. He makes these songs all the more effective with his outlandish voice. I strongly recommend to all that you catch this fine folk-artist's Union concert. Wainwright .will share the bill with rock musician Buzzy Linhart .and his band. Buzzy plays · , up-tunes with good rhythm, making use of his ·Continued on Page 2 The doctor bug has stricken pre-meds undetectably at many different times in their lives. Many little boys (m girls, as the case may be) were born with it, some were infected while innocently day-dreaming of their future in a 7th grade science class, while still others caught it from the many infected individuals around them m college. At Union and at universities all over this country., diagnosis of the \pre-med syndrome\ has b~n--simple; it is· the symptoms; indirect effects, and spread of this ·contemporary disease that are difficult to control. There are (acts, figures, and interpretations confronting us. There is both prejudice against and admiration for these many stricken individuals. And there is the question of whether the expanding growth of this syndrome is a hindrance or benefit to the whole atmosphere at our college. Dr. Willard Roth, a nationally prominent endocrinologist, is chairman of the Biology Bu::.::.y Linhart. wh(;J will appellr Wainwright Ill. Friday. with toudon by DEBBIE GLASSER Department and the official pre:. . ined advisor. fie has a detailed pre-medical history of Union College, and each of us has seen evicence of some of the pre-med ~yndrome's symptoms. The following <;ase history, of which Dr. Roth has supplied an extensive amount of the information, gives a detailed insigh( i-nto .the course confronting a typical Union pre- med. It ·is hoped that one understands that there is no such thing as a pre-med curriculum at Union. ·There are · pre-med English, Psychology, and Math majors. Also, there are no official records of pre-professional students. Some are active politically or in campus activities, yet many are known to be daily . library hermits. Unfortunately, they are often readily distinguishable and loosely stereotyped by other students for reasons to be clarified. The typical patient's record and diagnosis is clear and common, but his prognosis and effect on his environment are yet to be determined. That's a question each of us may have to · confront ... CASE HISTORY Name of Patient: Premeddie Throat berg Address; Box # 1. Union College's Insurance: Student College Plan: Send bill to Mr. and, Mrs. Throatberg, Anyrichtown, N.Y. Height: 5' 10\ Weight: 150 Histon': Premeddie has just come for his yearly check-up. Of course he is healthy (he knows it) and of quite stable mind, but he just wants to make sure. He's heard and sensed an awful lot of strange things about himself lately and is beginning to worry. The most important effect on his life at this time is the growing abundance of Premeddies at Union. He can't understand why the name has become so popular, while at the same time, it is so negatively descriptive. Besides, this increase in Premeddies has given him such a stereotyped reputation that he finds it difficult to retain his individual identity. Mr. Throatberg is one of the 85-odd Premeddies in the Class of '75 (that's about 19%) and feels this loss of identity. Although the problem is somewhat less for his junior namesakes, it is even worse for those 100 freshmen. Fortunately, Premedd ie' s Biology classes are not as full of his namesakes as they may have been five years ago, but his two required courses in Math and Physics and four in Chemistry are. As a result he find& his individuality inversely proportional to the mounting competition. This mounting competition is directly related to the great increase of selectivity and complexity involved in admission to medical school. He and his ever-proliferating namesakes have helped decrease the national average of applicants accepted to less than the 35% figure of last year. Premeddie has an advantage, though, as acceptances of all Union's senior applicants normally runs 25-30% over the country's average. But most of Union's aspiring doctors are at a disadvantage coming from northeastern areas like Anyrichtown an.d are automatically ineligible for the thousands of places in restricted Western, Mid-western, and Southern schools. The patient seems quite intelligent, clearly evidenced by his 3.52 cumulative average. But he is justifiably fearful of the pressure from the many turkeys around him (is Thanksgiving now lO months a year?). In addition, the national \cum. cut- off point\ (whose existence any medical school admission officer would deny) rises every year. Union runs .2-.3 below the country's cut-off, but it is rising proportionately. Two years 11go, · the patient's namesakes at Union were accepted with 2.9's, while last year ·it was 3.0, and his classes' cum. should prove to be even higher. This survey adds to Premeddie's fears, apprehen- sions, and tense nerves. Next, Mr. Throatberg informed me of the whole complex application-ad mi ssi 9n pr:ocedures ahead of him. He'll be one of more than 50,000 to take the MCATs ·(Medical College Admission. Test) in his senior year. He will probably apply to 25 schools (that's the average number; the range is 6 to 70!). He will he extensively interviewed by the Union College Pre- Medical Advisory Committee, a group of professors, mostly from the sciences, who offer their services to all the Premeddies. They Continued on Page 3 The library addition, which will be built behind the current library, will be similar to the existing building in structure, design, and finish. In an interview with Concordiensis yesterday, Dr. Edwin K. Tolan, Librarian, discussed current plans which call for a basetnent, a main floor, a full mezzanine and, depending upon the availability of funds, a sec~nd floor. Tolan estimated that the cost for tl'iis floor alone would be $400,000, but added that if it were omitted now, another addition would be far more costly later. The new structU:re, he said, is intended to provide increased student-staff work areas and stack space, as well as other new and specialized facilities. With the increased space, the present basement area will hol<l a map room and a newspaper room as well as typing rooms, some of which will b.e soundproof. There will be expanded carrel arrangements as well· as lounge chairs for studying. The carrels. will be designed for use in conjunction with sophisticated audio-visual equipment, when and if it might be acquired by the college . The main floor will h<:>use increased reference facilities with rooms for the storage and use [)f microfilms. Ex peri mental, individual occupancy microfilm booths will he on this floor. They will provide for typing as well as writing and will feature overluad lights which can remain on while viewing the films. The aH·n:ight study will be expanded and tile two conference rooms will be moved from their present location on the mezzanine to the main floor. The entire mezzanine will be used for periodicals, and this level will contain a II periodical stacks of present and back issues as well as more carrels. The second floor will remain basically the same, but the third floor of the current library would house all rare books, as well as the College's manuscript collection, in which outside interest has grown recently. Stacks now on the third floor Continued on Page 2 '

2 ·corvpoRD[EN~JS T~fday_,JC~;nuary 9, ~973 Le .. ·t:J.· .. _, .. · ~s· ;:. . - - . . ~~ . ~ .. ·~ . . ..... - - .. To tile Editor: be guarded like a room full of gold. Professor Berk is such a man. One of Union's strengths has been its small size which has always afforded close student- faculty contact. Professor Berk never \talked down\ to students. A student would .find a dignity and warmth that often did not exist elsewhere. He was a person to 'talk to, not a deity to bow down to. Does Social Conscioustiess Equal CommUnism? .. by LARRY PRIMACK . political and then philosophical sometimes 1 wonder tf The debate. · Prel!ideQt's Analyst's portrayal' of I am an alumnus of Union, Class ·of 1970. Recently, while at the College, I learned of a situation existing there which foretells the most unfortunate consequences for Union. I refer to the coHege policy regarding tenure of faculty. I refer most pointedly to the recent decisions not to tenure Professors Steven Berk and David Potts of the History Department. As I understand it, because of a college \policy\ of tenure quotas for· each department, these two men are to be let go. Neither is being denied tenure, or more bluntly being fired, due to incompetence or for any cause. No tenure committee ever even met to decide on the qualifications or abilities of these professors. ln fact both men were strongly recommended for tenure by the history department. It will be a tragedy if Union allows this professor to slip away - a better person cannot be found. I' usually don't argue politics because I feel that, given the opportunity, any one politician will be as corrupt as the next. To me, voting is the clloosing .of .the lesser of two evils. However, I dropped in on a pro-Nixon friend and his · conservative buddy and out superficial conversation turned into a We first began discussing the TPC's (The Phone Co~pany's) various merits and drawbacks of power was really that ludicrous. the two late Presidential From tbat paint, the argument candidll!tes and of their running led to big b~siness. in general. I mates. My friend's use .of the stated. that ht.g ~usm~ss had too word ''we'' whe.n discussing the much m!l~:nce sin~e 1t co·uld pay Pi'esident indicated to me that bis off pohtlctans dtrectly or by opinions wer:e representative of contribution~ to t~eir ·party's those of t.he President's treasury. Thts appr:_atsal referred supporters. Since .these people to ~11. politicians,_ 'fegard:Jess of are in a definite majority, 1 af~hahon. My _assumptiOn of se.nsed that I could possibly find u~we~sal corrup~JOn l~d · to my part of an answeF to my thmkmg that btg . buszness and question. What's wron~ with the men that ~ll:n 1t control the America? As things turned out, I government, m~t~ad ~f. the found quite a shocking answer. rever$e. In my, opmwn, t~1s Is ~he As l have always regarded the . university and especially my alma mater as glorifying truth and honesty, I feel ashamed at this recent turn of events. Due to a discriminatory, seemingly invidious policy, these two individuals are bid good-bye. One might understand a rational policy regarding tenure where professors were discharged or retained on the basis of teaching ability, academic achievement and community involvement. Two outstanding men - not only as academicians but as human beings-are being given raw deals. Respectfully, Dennis Meyers '70 * * * * To the editor: James R. Winston '71 The snow may be temporari~r in aht>yan{'(:>, hut you know the cold weather is here. TPmpPratures hal'e dropped to 5 degrees below zero in Schmn·tady and 37 below upstate. The college heating systfm has failed in such diverse buiidings as Fox, Dai1id.wm, and the hafl of good living above. Will we thrPatPn the record loll' .temperature in Schenectady's history, sN tlt'o _rears ago, at 27 fwlow? photo by Bill Erichson Library Extension Continued from Page 1 * * * * ·One of my pet peeves is big toot of a grea,t deal of so.ctal evil. business,. . Bell Telephone in . The government h~s never particular, and its ill dfects on bette.red welfare, un~mployment, society. It was to this subject that Med1care, or .Po~lutwn_ laws at I .steered the discussion. I was the expense of btg busmess and idealistically maintaining that· its bosses. Why should someone Ma Bell, as a monopoly, should be earniJ}g millions ~nd _paying be under strict governmental ~a~es on t~ousands, ~?tl.e the control. In this case, it is most_ mftrm go Without mf?dtcme, and advantageous to have a the babies of the poor go huttgr~? monopoly. Unfortunately, this I can't s~e wby. co~porate. proftts leaves the public no choice when are so high_ whtle md~sVY. rapes it comes to telephone service. I our. :nvuonment .. ~ T,h,ese also men1ioned that, as a public cm.npam~s owe the common J?an utility, it should enjoy little or no q~tte a btt, yet they slowly poison profit. Here the more vehement h1m. . of my antagonists informed me Durmg the course . of the that by desiring such. a thing, I n~ght's debate I ~as asked, \\\{ohy was a Communist and that by don't you leave, tf yo1.1 don't lrke ending the profit motive, I was it?\ \Why don't you quit .schoel , out to destroy the stock mark~t and join VlST A?\ I retorted ?Y and the A.merican economy. saying that I wasn't an escap1st I don't want to destroy free and that I cauld do more as, a enterprise. I'm not opposed to doctor a few years from ~ow moderate corporation profits a,nd than as a college dropout n¥ht each person earning as much as now. In my _answer to a question he deserves, by either salary or about speakmg on street. corners, stock market dividends. I just I . happe~ed .. t.o · : ment1~n the want to limit monopolies' and · hardhat-htppte mctdents m N~w near-monopolies' power over, York. .My more conse.rvatt~c and exploitation of, the little antago~tst amazed me wtth . h1s man. I'm not paranoid but condonmg the · constr.uction Between· 1967 and~ 1971 I was fortunate enough to have taken seven courses with Professor Berk (and would have taken more if additional courses had been available). During that time [ became impressed with Professor Berk's dedication to his field and his students. In a profession where fame and glory is earned by publishing numerous scholarly works, it is all too easy to lose sight of the necessity for professors who can communicate their knowledge on a more personal level - to students. would be relocated to the second floor extension. Other specialized features which,. according to Dr. Tolan, will help make the library a far more adequate educational facility, include tape recording facilities, a current newspaper room, and incr~ased accessibility and organization of maps. The primary function of the extension, he said, is to \better accommodate the students, personnel, and material of the College ... and to provide space adequate for a student body of 2000.\ Wainwright and Linhart in Concert workers' beating of the youths. After my dissertation on social consciousness and big business' lack thereof, I abruptly ended the argument after my adversary said, \ ... then you're a Communist, and you don't belong here.\ I left the room in disbelief. When a professor arrives on a campus who not only possesses a thorough knowledge and objective understanding of his field; but also a rarer ability to help, lead, and develop his students, it is indeed a special day. A professor like this should . ~.:· \'._... . .. . - CONCORDIENSIS fo1,1nded at Union College in 1877 Editor-in-Chief ........................ George Bain News Editor ............................. Tim Cain Managing Editors .................... Rita Morandi Dave Strom Features Editor .......•.................. AI Reisch Sports Editor ..................... Bruce Batchelder Photo Editors .......................... Les Kernan Jeff Weilburg Business Manager ................. Michael J. Hurley National Advertising ....... , .......... Stephen Kelly Subscriptions ....................... Mike Bernstein Contributing Editors ............... Peter Bickerman Louis S. Snitkoff Office Staff lllyria Puharich Doug Carpenter Gar) Lovett Phil Alcabes l:lill West l'oncordiensls k puhli,h~d c'\Ct) luc•,d,t~ <lllu I nda.' during lhl' '<:hn,il ~car L'\n•pt dunnj! C't.,tll1tnatinn and \aeation PL'ri<>th h~ tlw qud,·nt hod~ nl l ni<Hl Col leg,•. Sch~n~ctad:. \. Y. \;uionnl ad\ crtt,ing 1 L'i'~''''L'ntat 11 c. \altona I hlucational ·\d\L•rti<inj! Sen Jtc. lne. Col!,·g,· l'uJ,Jt,hc\ Rc·prc;L'nt<Jt.l\.;, \atinnal rducational /\d\t'rti;inj! S~niec, lnL. \.,_('. I dttnrial Oilice. Hid (i\m. l'nuui Cnllc•gc. l'uhli<:ation Ofrlel'. I he· .It·\ ''h \\ 11rld l'uhlit•atinJ\. 771 slate Street. Scht'llCl'tad:. \Y. I:!J07. ·'-16-2.'SI>. illtl'IL'd 111 tilt• St:hL'llL'L'Iad: pn't olfil'L' a' Second C'las' ~latl \latt,·.r.SIIh,cnplinn 20 .;cnh a .:ufl) .$X \ '''ar dclt\ crcd :111\\1 IH:re tn the !I mtt•d St;ttcs. Deadline inr all.:np~. 1\h1ch must he t~ r<·d and douniL•-,p;I,.,.,J. \ ' rIlL <>11 Mnnda\ and I hursdm at the Concord~ ollie-e. aOtl\L' Old ( 'lwp,·L Oftic~ telephone nu~hcr is ,l70-M55. hut till' oiiJ<.:L' 1' onl) Illll'<' <Ill \1omla: and ·1 hursd:t) night;,. For Hll cdit<lrilll matter;,, ~all th~ cditnr\lll-dlicol 111 39.l- IMO; lor information ••all Student 1\cti\ttics OlliL'C at .170-oiiX Continued from Pa2e 1· versatile talents on guitar, vibes: mouthharp, marimba, and piano. Together with his weird vocal style, Linhart lays down an interesting. sound, incorporating a light rock-jazz feeling. Some of his better known numbers arc \Friends \You Got What It Takes,\ and \The Love's Still Growing,\ which Carly Simon recorded and made a big hit of. Buzzy has gone yhrough a lot of musical changes and growth since his first gig in the Navy Band at 18 years of age. Disturbed at the material being played, he quit and started playing in the Midwest, followed by some studio time backing albums by John Sebastian, Richie Havens, Zephyr, ana Jimi Hendrix. You can hear him on the John B. Sebastian album doing that strange vocal piece on .. Fa-Fana-Fa.\ Since 1970 he's been touring with various backup bands. Alvvays more highly regarded for his live appearances, his latest Kama-Sutra album, Buzzy, has · been -declared . by many as his best by far. Says Wa:Jrus Magazine, \For us die- har<l Buzzy Linhart fans this album harkens the day we will have to give hirn up to the rest of the world.\ :;)QCCCQCQCCCCQCCCCCCCQCI:ICC=QQQQ<::l= * * * * The Schenectady Protect Your Environment (PYE) Club will hold its first meeting of the term on Wednesday, January 10, at 7:30 in the Infirmary basement. Topics will include election of officers and plans for recycling. All members and other interested parties are encouraged to attend. * * * * Department of Biological Sciences Seminar-Announcement: Tuesday, January l6, 1973, 4:30 p.m., Social Sciences Building, Room II 5. ·'The Physiological Definition of the Fundamental Niche of Typha ( catta i I)\ Dr. Sa muc·l McNaughton, Syracuse Uni- versity. Refreshments at 4:00p.m. * * * * Student Life Committee Strikes Again! Come to our open meeting in Fox House Lounge tbis Friday at 1:30 p.m. If you have suggestions or complaints about college life, this is the time to voice them. * * * * The faculty basketball team will take on all comets any day during the lunch hour~ at the gym. Contact Prof. Wells, irt the h is t o r y d e:pa rt m en t, an q challenge the team's three-yea. record of 25-5. Levrs, Dave's-Mens Shop 453 State St. (downtown Schenectady) FOR LIQUOR ci WINE Try JAKE. LIPSTEIN.'S 464 State Stnet' FRC.llll I ~--------------------------------- \I'll admit that the argument frequently degenerated into an emotional screaming match, especially right before I left, and that both gentlemen apologized in the morning. They even assured me that their opinions were not really that reactionary and that they didn't mean all the things they said in their emotional outbursts. I g.uess I can stay here for a while . If 60.8% of the American people believe social consciousness, caring for the little people, and a dislike for big business and corrupt politiCians makes one a Communist, and that this so-called Communist shouldn't be allowed to live in the United States, then I've found the answer to my question. My youthful idealism compels me to write that I don't believe all 60.8% maintain thcltc opinions, but I still have some nagging doubts. PROCTOR'S Will~ STATE ST., SCHENECTADY l~~ 11 ~?,~~====!~=~=;=i~=!=~=~~=~i=i=i=~i=!=~=!=!==~=~==~==r::~====:=~'~I~ 1 :~:; Jan. l0-Jan .. l6 · =~=== 11!1!WlLD ER NESS~~~~~ ~~1111 JOURNEY ~~~~ ~iilwi!dtik \'''('('facutm~i~![ · tl i~1 A /ask a :t~ i!!~b::::::~===~:::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::m:::::i:::d!i!i COMING Jan. 24-Jan. 30 Sword in .the Stone ·'i

if The of ompany's) argument general. I had too pay or ·by · party's l referred of ptioil of d ·to my and the of the is the evil. never ployment, laws at and someone paying the and hungry? profits rapes ~ T;h,ese man ly poison . of the \Why like it school orted by escapist as. a now right question corners, the in New with his social business' the dversary re a don't in rgument into an match, and even all the their guess I merican soc ia I the for big litiCians and live in rvc pels believe these some CONCORD!ENSiS T~es'day; Jan~arj 9, 1973 3 Second.:story Theater, in conjunctio·~ with the Mountebanks, presents The Wizard of Oz, a ragtime musical: Sunday, January 14, at 2 p.m. and 8 p.m. in Nott Memorial Theater. Tickets will go on sale Monday in the Nott box office (afternoons after 1 p.m.): Union students free, nonstudents 50l!l. All day Sunday there will be an e'\hibit of the masks used in the production and: demonstrations of mask-tna.king techniques. After each production, the audience will be invited to .participate in a movement workshop; ·-if you want to join, yoil'r,e _ a(ivised to -wear loose- fitting· clothing. · Seating is limited, so · please reserve your tickets early. The International Relations ClUb will sponsor a lecture in Old Chapel this Thursday night, January lJ, at 8:30 p.m. The speaker will be Professor Andrew Gyorgy of the Sino-Soviet Institute of George Washington University. Ptofes!)or Gyorgy received !lis B.A. and J.D. degrees from the University of Budapest. He then received his M.A. and Ph.D. at the University of California at Berkeley_ and at Los Angeles, respectively. Professor Gyorgy has taught at the University of New Hampshire, Boston University, M.l.T., and Yale University. This Thursday, Professor Gyorgy will lecture on the \Washingto·n-Moscow- Peking Triangle.\ This lRC lecture,. which will be followed by a question .and answer session, is ope!! to the entire campus community. Hillel Friday Night Shabbat services ~ organized, run, and lead by students. Afterwards, there's an oneg shabbat. Come, get involved, and help make a II1iny(ln. Women are counted. Arts 202-7:30 p.m. Pre-Med Syndrome * * * * Union's 1973 concert schedule will commence Friday, January 12, with performances by folk- artist Loudon Wainwright H l and rocker Buzzy Linhart in Memorial ChapeL Tickets for the 8!30 concert, available now in the Student Activities Office, are $2.00 for Union students and $3.00 for all others. The Social Committee will also be presenting Merry Clayton, whase soul-rock show will be preceded by cbmedian· Robert Klein on January 27. A final concert is planned for Februa1 y 24 featuring the Mark Almond Band. Reduced-price season tickets are now on sale in the Student Activities Office. Tickets are only $5.00 for the three concerts, a savings of $1.50 over regular prices. * * * * This term's first meeting of the A.S.C.E. will be held at 7:00 p.m. on Thursday, Jan. II, in Room 109, Butterfield Hall. A representative from Proctor and Gamble will speak on employment opportunities m large industry. Refreshments will be served and all civil engineers are invited. * * * * Anyone interested in taking meals at Kappa Alpha, especially pretty girls with nice figures and no minds, please contact David Henle, 370-1809. · - films on Campus With this column, Concordiensis inaugurates a new feature: a short- description ·df the films which will be shown on campus during the following week. Members of the faculty or representatives of campus organizations who will be showing films are urged to notify Professor Gado one week in advance of the show date for inclusion here. . SHADOW OF A DOUBT: Uncle Charley comes to visit his family in California, leaving a trail of dead wi\\'e'S \lrehind him. This suspenseful comedy of murders and manners, based on a screenplay by Thornton Wilder, is Hitchcock's personal favorite. Stars Joseph Cotten and Teresa Wright. January 10, 7:00 and 9:00 p.m.,SS 016, Film Haps admission $1. · - KANAL; A group of Polish resistance fighters take refuge in the Warsaw sewers when Nazi troops enter the city. Waist-deep in excrement and refuse, the group struggle$ for life. This depressing film is one of the great achievements of the short- lived Polish renaissance in cinema. The director is Andrzej Wajda, perhaps the best talent the movement produced. 1957. January 10, 2:30; January 12, 3:00 and 8:00. S.S. 016 WAITING FOR GODOT: A film version of Samuel Beckett's bes.t-known play. Zero Mostel, Burgess Meredith, and Kurt Kasner ham up this existential burlesque routine. Directed by Alan Schneider, Godot is less a film than a stage play transferre·d to film. January II, 7:00 and 9:00p.m., SS 016. BED AND BOARD: Francoi~ Truffaut's sequel to The 400 Blows and Stolen Kisses, telling the further adventures of Antoine Doinel, in an amusing tender, and typically Truffaut triBe. Stars Jean-Pierre Leaud and Claude Jade. January 13 and 14, 7:00, 9:00 and 11.:00 p.m.,.SS 016, Film Haps admission $1. METROPOLIS: Fritz Lang's science-fiction classic of the silent era. Ma<ie at UFA studios, the film presents a world run by technocrats until human emotions destroy the engineer\s elaborate system. January 15, 2:30p.m., SS 016, lab fee. ,- . . BOULEY ARD BOWL 1315 Erie Blvd. 40 AMF BOWLING LANES 374-4171 Bowl for Health LOWEST LIQUOR AND WINE PRICES INN. Y. STATE at Moffet's Liquor Store Corner of VanVranken Avenue Get Your Chilled Wines Early for Wednesday's Game Hillel general meeting Tuesday, Jan. 9. \As Jews at Union, there's lots we can do and so little we are doing. So, come, and let's plan and get going already.\ Hale House Lounge. 8:30. * * * * There will be an art exhibition by the infamous Robert Neolsch on display in the Music Room of Schaeffer Library this week. * * * * the Union College Christian Fellowship· will be holding its regular bi-weekly meeting on Thursday, January ll; 1973, in Hale House .Student LoUllge. Dr. Herbert Mekeel will be (>l,lr guest spea'ker. All students and faculty are welcome to hear. him speak on the \Nature and Character of Ood and our Response.\ * * * * The Orientation Committee. is now .aceepting applications for Orientation Co-Chairman. Applications may he picked up at ~tudent Activities. They must be returned by January 22, 1973. * * * * Officials are needed for Intramural Volleyball and Basketball. If anyone is interested, please report to Coach Lawrence's office to sign up. * * * * C~nt_inued from Pag~ 1 jointly compose each student's collective evaluation. '\It's tough,\ Premeddie sighs, then yaw~s. ••f've just been up all night studying Organic,\ he matter-of-factly mentions. ••There's another exam in lO days \ The e~haustion shows; apparently that course is handling him, rather than he handling the course. Before I could cut in with a suggestion for more sleep, better self health care, less study, and the possible consideration of a less rigorous medical field, he continued with an· amazing burst of life and energy. \But I love it all; the sciences (except for that horrible ·calculus), the possibilities for future social service, the superior employment prospects, and the status. rm determined to see that M.D. ~s a .part of my title some day!\ Prognosis: Premeddie Throatberg will succeed; of that I am sure. He will live a busy life, dedicated to the health of people around him. But it is the ·present dissatisfaction th&t l sense in him and that he feels within himself and at his college that bothers me. He, his college, and I could Winter Radio· Campus Radio, WRUC, has sprung into winter. At the all~ station meeting on Sunday night plans for the term were out:lined to t'he ninety attending station members. As usual schedule changes will occur and new shows are being added. Among the new shows are, An Album Review and Concert Preview -Hour on Wednesday 9-10 p.m., Live Preformances (in studio) by Union Artists on Tuesdays 9-10 p.m. and Curtis Abbott's Two Hours of Comedy Wednesday Midnight 2 .m. (actually Thursday morning.) This week's album review will take a look at the Rolling Stones ••More Hot Rocks,\ The Beach Boys ••Holland,\ and will also give previews of Loudon Wainwright and Buzzy Linhart who are appearing Friday ni.ght m Memorial ChapeL ---. Much of iast term's enthusiasm has been carried over into this term as the station has boosted its membership for the fourth term in a row. This means that the station can now expand the number and variety of special programs it carries. The news department is now under Dan Miley and will soon add \Earth News\ to the regular local, national, and world news. The entire air schedule and further details of this term's activities will appear in this Friday's issue of Concordiensis. Also appearing . will be the times of the newly relocated Gold Show and other regular features. Sports fans will be pleased to know that WRUC plans to broadcast some of the away basketball .games as WG Y is no longer carrying them. The games and dates will once again appear in Concordy. Be- prepared.for Concordy~s tll'o pagl' \E_rl' on Union\ photo spread, which will appear in Frida.t: night's edition. If you want to join this ll'inning tf'am, stof' h.r the office, abot•e Old Chapel, any Monday or Thursday night. WP're not squarP! Urgently Needed! Married couples to babysit part/full time . Permanent live in situations available for this semester. Work as much as you want. ·Call University Famil.y Services Inc. (Agency) 456-0998 photo by Bill Erichson ~ P~ity Isabella's ~'i' ?&~ &_ \SI PHARMACY, INC. ~Accuracy ~ 527 Union St. § Schenectady N.Y. ~ Ph. 37()-2300 § WELCOME § &. UNION STUDENTS ~ ~.q.~~t.Q>t.Q><,.G.~ simply ignore this latent discontent, turning our cheeks, convincing ourselves that the end justifies the means. \I can't do this ... 1 am human. Yet, 1 have no answer. DO YOU!!! (Signed) D.G., M.D. The Department of Physical Education announces basic ski instruction (a minimum of 25 students needed for this program). Place: West Mountain, Glens Falls, N.Y., West Mountain Road. Hours: 7:00 p.m. to II :00 p.m., Tuesdays, beginning January 16, 1973. Lessons: 2 hours duration per week for 5 weeks (followed by 2 hrs. fre( skiing). Rental equipment: Available at ski area. Bus service provided: Leaving from West College Parking lot. Time: 5:45 p.m. Costs: Lift fee $3.00; Lesson fee $2,00; Rental fee $2.00 (skis, boots, poles); Bus fee $2.00. Lift, rental and lesson fees for the season will be payable Tuesday, January 16th (total $35.00) at the Ski Area. Bus fee payable on or before Friday. January 12, 1973 in Department of Physical Education Office (total $1 0.00). * * * * Dave's' Mens Shop 453 State St. (downtown Schenectady) LOWEST YOUIHFARES TO EUROPE of any scheduled airline Fly Icelandic's Daily Scheduled Jets From New York To luxem- bourg In The Heart Of Europe. $).65 round-trip jet YOUTH FARE. ·Ages 12 thru 25. Show proof of age. Add $10 each way for Peak Season departures eastbound June 20 thru July 25 and west- bound July 20 thru Aug 31. Good for overseas stays of up to a year. $J95 round-trip jet STUDENT FARE. Ages 26 thru 29. Show proof of age and enrollment in bona fide school. Add $10 each way for Peak Season departures east- bound June 1 thru Aug 31 and westbound July 1 thru Sept 30. Good for overseas stays of up to a year. $J25 one-way jet . · YOUTH FARE. Ages 12 thru 25. Show proof of age, No extra charges. For youths wishing to remain over- seas more than a year, this fare is an exclusive with Icelandic and is less than half the com- parable one-way fare of any other scheduled airline. To: Icelandic Airlines 630 Fifth Avenue, N.Y. 10020 (212) PL 7·8585 Send folder CN on Youth/ Student Fares to Europe. Name ________________ ___ Street ___________ _ Cizy _________________ __ State-------Zip ___ _ My travel agent Is_.. _____ _ ----------------- ~~ ICELANDIC

1 ' 4 . Tuesday, Janu~y 9, 1973 . . Hoop Squeaks By Clark, Rochester Here Next by MARK W. MINDEL Despite an uninspired second half performance, the Union College basketball squad once again reached the .500 I>lateau with a 71-6 7. V·ictory over Clark Saturday night in the first meeting ever between the two teams. The 3-3 Garnet; however, will need a herculean effort this Wednesday against a Rochester squad which has beaten them in all but one of the 13 previous meetings, if they intend to win two consecutive games for the first time this season. Union came out as hot as it has been all year in the first half, easily picking apart the seams in Clark's sluggish zone defense. Chuck Abba maintained the hot hand. he found in the Capital District Tournament by literally banging away at will from his favorite spot in the left corner. Abba, who is fina1Iy regaining the touch that made him a star on the NYS number one ranked 1969 squad from Linton, finished with 17, for his third straight double figure night. But Chuck wasn't the only Dutchman who was hitting in the first half as Union swished 23 out of 43 shots through the nets, most from beyond 15 feet. Tom Bacher, who finished with 14 points and 14 rebounds, was consistently open on his favorite turnaround .. shot from the side of the key and Luke Dillon, II points, popped from the top of the key to open a comfortable 13 point lead which held up throughout much of the opening stanza. Clark, however, crept to within nine points, 47-38 at the half with a buzzer shot by 6' 5\ Nick Tarasavic. _ Union came out groggy-eyed in the second half and after almost ten minutes had scored only four points,holding on to a slim 51-48 lead. Union could not hit the medium range jumper which Clark continued to give them. The Garnet hit on only eight of 26 shots in the second half. The Garnet have had trouble this year during the second half of most games and several times have lost their pojse (and their lead) down the stretch. It began to look like this was the case Saturday. Union's high scorer in thl' win ol'er Clark, junior guard Chuck A hha, 1rhv tossed in 17 points. photo by Bill Erichs~m tevrs Dave's· Mens Shop 453 State St. (downtown Schenectady) ' . , The Tom Combs rebounding styiP. Crm1bs and sophomore Charlie Gugiliotra will provide hench strength and try to offset Rochester's hPight advantage in Wednesda;· night's against the Ye!lf.nvja(·ket.v, at &On. Unian reopened a nine point lead, 57-48 on baskets by Geoff Walker and Tom Bacher and a nifty Tom Combs to Tom Combs backboard pass and score play. Then the Garnet went stone cold. Clark hit for eight straight points over a slow-scoring four minute span to cut the lead to one point, 57-56 with 5:25 left. After Combs traded baskets with Clark, Abba came l!P with a clutch steal to set up old teliable Mick Doyle for a three-pointer which upped the Garnet lead to 62-58 with 3:17 remammg. Doyle, playing with the flu, . totaled 11 points and - .11 rebounds, and made it 64-58 40 seconds later with consecutive free throws. With Clark and Union trading baskets the rest of the way, Luke Dillon finally iced matters over his home town team, with a pair offoul shots at 0:19. Rochester is the first of four tough games for Union who play the \Little Three\ - Amherst, Wesleyan, and Williams aft~r the Yellowjacket contest. Union's only recent victory photo by Bill Erichson over the U. of R. came two years ago at the Field House in what Jimmy Tedisco once termed his most satisfying game in his college career. . The Yellow Jackets really turned the tables on Jimmy and company last year spoiling a 15 game winning streak and Tedisco's college finale with a ten point win. The entire Rochester team is returning paced by giant .soph Damian Upson. Rochester is 4-3 this year, including a win over Cornell, but plays a tougher· schedule than smaller Union. One of the most important ingredients in the Union game, which many fans of the fast break and explosive offenses may miss, is the Garnet's impressive and actually exdting defense. The Garnet have given up only 65.6 points per game and have shut off many high-powered offenses. Luke Dillon was injured in practice Monday and may be a questionable starter. John Denio, who has played exciting, if somewhat erratic, hall, will see much action. Biiialiiiallriiial'lii~Bii~Bai~Bii--­ RESEARCH MATERIALS All Topics Send for your descriptive, up-to-date, 128-page, mail order catalog of 2,300 qul}lity research papers. Enclose $1.00 to cover postage and handling. RESEARCH UNLIMITED 519 GLENROCK AVE., SUITE 203. LOS ANGELES, CALIF. 90024 (213) 477·8474 • 477-5493 \We need a local salesman\ ••••••••••••••••• : JAY r • • • 1 Billiard : 1 Lounge : ; 167 Jay St. I a -RELAX- rl • • • PLAY POOL • • • : Daily 1 0~1 0 p.m. • • . Sunday 2-8 .p.m. I ··········1••••• .• Frosh Smash C.lark, 97-50 by BILLY the KID and LITTLE LEE The Union fresh.man basketball squad overpowered a hapless Clark University contingent in their finest showing and Ray Marcinowski, forfieting speed but gaining a tremendous height advantage. ' of the year last Saturday night. Union jumped off to an early lead ana. continued to build on it tP,roughout the game; the 97-50 rout stretched their record to an unblemished 3-0. The outcome of the game was never in doubt, as the clearly superior Union players controlled the tempo of the game and did what they pleased with the opposition. They combined a solid defensive effort with an offense that scored almost at will-either thrcmgh penetrating the porous Clark zone or fast breaking before the defense could The effect of these revisiens in the lineup was evident against · Clark as guards Kelly, Bill Henson, Mark Gillum, and Mark Glazer were able to compile many assists while helping big men MarCinowski, Joel Fisher, and Raymond to score 17, 14, and 12 ppints respectively. Gillum had a good night all- ar-ound, as he was also high scorer with 18. ScQring Total$ Gillum 18 Marcinowski 17 Fisher 14 Raymond 12 Henson 8 set up. . Kelly 8 Venier 8 Coppula 6 Glazer 6 97 The freshmen did not show any signs of missing John Denio, Who was moved up to varsity, as Steve Kelly replaced him at the starting guard position and proved he could handle the task. Kelly's shift ·Vacated a ...• ~tarting forward position which enabled Coach Bill Scanlon to start both • }: - 0 ~ -of his big men, John Raymond Union can expect much stiffer compe.titie.t:t-whe.n they encounter an always tough Rochester team in their next game, Wednesday night at 6:00. Winter Doldrums by BUFFALO The winter doldrums have arrived. What are the winter doldtums, you ask? Let me tell you. The winter doldrums is that very brief period of time between the end of the football season and the beginning of the baseball season. The winter doldrums is using frozen horse crap for a hockey puck. The winter doldrums is getting hit in the face with the '\horse crap\ puck that wasn't as frozen as you hoped it would be. It is sitting iJJ your room at college and watching the heat go off. For Billy Sullivan, the winter doldrums is having Joe Paterno say \no.\ For Chief and Freddie, it's no Shakey. For skiers, it's no snow and for skater, it's no ice. For an NFL ref, it's having no instant replay. For AI Davis, it's having instant replay. For Dick Nixon, the winter doldrums is that lull during halftime of a 'Skins game, when he must decide what to read first - the latest B-52 casualty list or the Redskins' scouting report on the Miami Dolphins. The winter doldrums is Nixon reading the scouting report first. The winter doldrums is a cynical sports writer. Winter isn't all bad, though. Winter affords time for reflection. Remember that endless summer at the Cape? I will always be amazed at how much woman can be stuffed into a bikini, On the other hand, I will always be amazed at how much woman can hang out of that same bikini. Isn't technology wonderful? Winter is the incredible rush one receives while skiing the headwall of Tuckerman~s Ravine .. lt is also being \rushed\ to the hospital with the broken leg received while skiing the headwall. (Back to thfl doldrums). ~ Winter is. watching the Bruins lose to the Blackhawks on television. For Jimmy Tedisco, it's watching Union play without him. For Union, it's watching Jimmy watch them play without him. It's playing pool with Dave Badeau - and losing. It's reading how great the Rangers are going to be next year when all their injured players are healthy again. The winter doldrums is winter itself. ... l I - - Now open 7 days/ week The Brothers III under \Union\ management MEALS -11 a.m.-i2 Midnight Wed. Nite 9-12 Assorted Variety Of : Hot & Cold Sandwiches At College Prices 1679 Van Vranken-Ave. 374on5679 Reduced Prices · on Beer 2 blocks up EXCELLENT DARK BEER ON TAP - - -- - I I I ..,

rfieting endous ions. in ag![inst · , Bill I Mark om pile :~g big Fisher, 17' 14, tively. ht all- ' high 18 17 14 12 8 8 8 6 6 stiffer lUnter team 1esday ter the :m. ck. tp\ irJ ;ay no no me :he he :he r. m. be .he ng he he tU. on >Ut m. >W ed ... founded at Union College in 1877 V ot. 102, No. 21 Friday, January 12, 1973 20 cents ------------~------------~------------------- Wh,er·e Should AOC's Services Man's Min·d Roam by ROB MONDSCHEIN Should a college,. in particular Union College, support (this does not mean financially) rese~u;ch that \it\ disagrees with? This raises many questions as to the position of the college within society, the position of different groups that make up the college, and finally who decides What is good, what is bad. I raiseth,is question because .of a discovery l made of a research project being conducted presently \through'• Union C<>llege: the Union College Character Research Project,. a name to be found in the back of the academic register. I will try to give an idea of how this project was founded, and what links it has to Union Colleger. The main personality in this story is Professor Ernest M. Ligon. J?rofessor Ligon came to Union College in 1929. He has been here as a psychology professor in varying capacities ever since, from Associate Professor to Professor to Chairman of the department (in 1962) to his present status of Research Professor of Psychology. Beginn4J,g in 1967 he was also designated as a Research Professor in Child Development. Professor Ligon 1:ame here in 1929 with a pr()blem from his undergraduate days at Texas Christian. He wondereci·(asheto.ld .tbis.reporter) what would occur if a child were raised accordirtgto the teachings of Jesus Christ, as told in the Sermon on the Mount. Would this chiid reach mental health? Furthermore, if this were true, how could it be achieved'? Can a \Christian pe.rsonality\ be created ·that will be mentally healthy .and enable each man to teach his unique potential? From theSermon on the Mount, Professor Ligon came up with eight traits which are the personality goals of the Christian personality. The traits are vision, love of righteousness and truth, faith in the friendliness of the Universe, dominating purpose, sensitivity to the needs of others, forgiveness, magnanimity, and christian courage. · I will not examine the meaning of each of these. It is sufficient to say that these are \in line with Jesgs' vision for hl.tman personality,\ according to Professor Ligon. In 1935 Dr. Ligon gave a series of lectures at the Westminster Presbyterian Church in Albany. The Reverend and congregation there were amazed, and urged Professor Ligon to develop a method of raising children so that they would develop the \Christian Personality.\ As a resuli the \Union College - Westminster Character Research Project\ evolved. During the late thirties, Professor Ligon helped develop at Union one of the most sophisticated psychological testing laboritories in the nation. He tested thousands of children and collected an enorm·ous amount of data at the college labs. The forties and early fifties do not yield muc~. information on the project, but I intimated from a conversation with . Professor Ligon th~t this Was mainly a period of research, developing new methods and . techniques. During this period I have no idea of how CRP was funded. Dr. Ligon has written· several books which bring in a sizable income. He uses the proceeds ef these books to partially fund the preject even today, but whether he did then, or where the money came from to pay the project staff, I h~ve not the slightest idea. by PHIL ALCABES ~OC students can make it, if they receive some supportive help. So asserted Mr&. Antoinette Reid, who is Union's Coordinator of Supportive Services. She is one of the less well-known employees of the College. The Character Research Project had developed a step,.by-.step method of taising a child from birth until maturity. (l would guess from the charts of CRP, that this r would mean 17 or 18 years of age.) Then, in 1960, \over two hundred families in the United States, Brazil, Africa, the Philippines, and Korea have been doing what many critics of religious education have claimed impossible. They have been teaching their children at home, challenging them to put the .teachings of Jesus into practice ... \* 'these families still exist, but whether the number offamilies has increased or decreased, I can not photo by Bill Eriehson The scoreboard tells the story as a jubilant Garnet The Academic Opportunity Cotlsortium recruits students - mostly from the Tri-city area, but also from as far off as New York - who have poor high sch.ool records but who are considered to have the ability to be successful in college. These students are placed in non-credit classes which provide them with skills that will be necessary or valuable to them in college work. Herein lies the explanation of \supportive services\: the OAC classes do not impart knowledge, but rather the tools needed to gain knowledge. Continued·on Page 3 squad mobs Mike Doyle, after the Garnet \upset\ favored Rochester 60-55. The story of the game. and other sports reports, can he found on page 8. Garnet Upsets Rochester By MARK W. Ml~' ~L, . language is one particular prol:llern encountered in educating students so that they rna~ be educated. Many AOC puptls are underpriveleged urban dwellers, unfamiliar with technical or literary style in speech or writing. There is presently a movement, pred()minantly in New York City, te ineorporate\ Black ghetto speech into school curriculum. Mrs. Reid commented that this could be effective; however, such spee~~ is not accepted by society, specifiCally educated society. The percentage of Blacks at Union is too small . to make that kind of change feasible or desirable· even in predominantly Black schools though, it is important that · The Gaants are Bush . . . \We dough-popped 'em!\ . . ., \ , -;, Tommie Combs turned m h1s exclaimeaT~ J. Bacherinthecoke- , A~d there they were_, 6 ? • 6 6 • best effort of the year with clutch flowing locker room celebration 6 5 •:·· no 0 '?-e under SIX foot, shooting and rebounding down the after Union's stunning 60-55 upset standmg at !lud-comt before t~e stretch along with his ability to victory over huge Rochester game, lookmg . down a.t their break the press. Wed11-es!Iay night, which lifted the smaller opponents ~arm_mg u~, But it w~s D.oyle, who scored all Garnees record to-4-3, above .500 confide~ce overflowing m their 12 of his 14 points in the crucial for the first time. easy smd~. · . second haJf, who kept Union \It was my most impressive But as Stena found ()Ut,rou have plugging away. Doyle made the victory at Union from the to pia~ the game, no~ JUSt talk play of the game with 2:28 left standpoint of outhustling a more ab()ut It. And the Gohaths from when he made an incredible tip-in talented opponent,\ de(!lared Roc~e.ster soon found out that the of a missed Garnet shot to open up Coach Gary Walters and from a David 5 fr~m Schen~tady could an insurmountable 54-44lead. And man with 41 winstochoosefrom in hurt you with thos~ slingshots. it was D()y)e, who time and time slightly over two years, that's quite Amazingly, Unton, who had again, would dribble the ball up a statement. been out-rebounded_by Rochester court to break the Yellow Jacket .. It came down to who wanted last year by over thuty rebounds, press. the game more, .. how many times got to the bo.ards more ~ften than did you see Mike(Doyle)orChuck the slower b1~ men. M1k~ Doyle, (Abba). or Geoff (Walker) dive the most physical player I ver ever after a loose ball compared to the seen, pulled down 14 rebounds to Black:s know both tongues. Rochester players? I was very lead the attack. . . proud of them all, they may not But even more am~zm~ than th1s havethemosttalentorevenheight, was the pur.e determ1natton of the buttheyhaveawholelotofheart.\ defense which let ~oc~ester take There were several amazing only 1~ shotstbeentue~usthalf,l4 things about the victory. Uni()n sho!s ~~.-~~e half, that~ only one w~ playing agai~st the exact same every minute and a half. And once squad which had throttled them a agam they fo,rced the oppone~t to year ago at Rochester, in the charge. T~at ~ wl!at defe~se 1s all Gamet's finale, with sheer physical about. Uruon s 28-19 halftime lead strength and superior height. 6 ., 6 , .though, ~ould have been so much Damian Upson, now a sophomore, larger. With more. ~ccurate fou~- surely must have gained maturity, shootmg, a nemests so far th1s if not physical improvement, and season .. he was too much to hand·le last Despite 27 turnovers by the year. Buzzy Linhart (abO\·e) and Loudon Wainwright share the billing in tonight's Social Committee concert in Memorial Chapel at 8:30. The doors open at 7;45. and tickets are still avqilable at $2 offense through()ut the game, Union kept its lead hovering around 10 points most of the second half. Whenever it was threatened someone would respond with a chltch play. He's Everywhere! Geoff Walker, probably the MVP for the game if you can ever overlook Doyle, seemed to be everywhere stealing passes. Walker was high-scorer for ,the night also, with 15, and scored what proved to be the winning points by converting a one and one with 1:35 left. Chuck Abba did the job both defensively and in bringing the ball up court, and made an unbelievable da11ce down the sideline to save a sure turnQver, and set it up for a T.J. two-pointer. Bacher;who scored 11 and did a clutch job off the boards, made an incredible leaping lay-up mid-way through the second half which helped Union pull away from a minimal 6 point lead. Discipline AOC classes begin over the When Jimmy Tedisco left Union summer, when the student takes many people said, \We'll see if two c:ourses for which he receives Waltc;:J:s i~ really t?at good n~w.\ · credit in the upcoming school Well, Umon d1dn t have TediSCO year - he .carries a lightened Wednesday night, nor his course load for the first two replacement Bill Carmody, nor his terms. During the academic year replacement LukeDillon, but what AOC instruction takes place at Continued on Page 7 Continue~ on Page 6 · Myth and Reality Of Admissions by ILL YRIA PUHARICH T,he Union College Admissions might know about an applicant Office is among a small minority will leave with them. of colleges in the country that Tlte Director of Act.missioQs, has students interviewing Jasper A. D. Shupe, then freshmen applicants. The chooses a number of the students performing this task are volunteers. Senior Gatesmen the senior Gatesmen. conducting interviews this year The Gatesmen is an are Joe Achenbaum, Mitchell organization of thirty students Bens.on, Alex Bodenstab, John who conduct tours of the campus DeSaix, Scott Feur, Ty for perspective applicants. Each Harrington, Les Kritzer and spring a percentage of their Chuck Sabatt. number graduates and new To prepare for this duty, the people are accepted. Out of one seniors sit in on two interviews hundred or so applicants, ten, or with an admissions officer. After less, are chosen by the outgoing each interview they discuss the Gatesmen, independently of the whfs and how's of the session. Admissions Office. Next the senior prepares a The applicants are interviewed . critique of the interview which is in order to determine their degree also discussed. When the of articulation, lack of shyness, Gatesman feels he is capable of and ability to answer common giving an interview, he begins. questions that will be put to them. Tllis group of seniors In his or her senior year, a interviews only on an irregular Gatesman may volunteer to do basis; they are available if the interviews. In the past, several load gets too heavy for the juniors have been interviewers, admissions staff, if some of the · bu:t seniors are preferred because admissions staff is traveling or ill. any confidential information they <.:ontlnued onPage6

2 CONCOJ!.DJfiNSIS FricfqJ_~. January 12, 1973 Crackdown on Dogs Negligent dog o:wners, beware! You are going to have to lose your irresponsible attitude towards your dogs and the campus community. For there is a spectre haunting the campus: the spectre of the Dog Catcher. Dean Malloy, in response to the general disregard for the rule that dogs must be leashed,. has created this position. He has instructed the D.C. to catch all unleashed dogs on campus, and to place them in kennels in the main.tenance building_. For this service, the spectre will receive payment of three dollars per dog. Dogs in the kennels who possess a Union registration tag will be returned to their owners for a fine ofthree dollars for first offense and five dollars for the next. Other dogs will be counted as strays, and will be transported to the Schenectady Animal Shelter. I applaud Dean Malloy's action, and hope that he will follow through with it until the problem of loosed dogs on campus is solved. But most importantly, I hope that those people who have so far evaded or ignored the responsibilities that go along with owning a dog will begin, of their own volition, to comply with the pet regulations, so that we can dispen:;;e, once and for all. with the ridiculous system of having a dog catcher. Then we can turn our full attention toward the resolution of the myriad of serious problems facing this college. • • • • . - • • • jbw To the College Community; When anyone mentions the word \tenure\ at Union College, it has become the recent custom among student~Jo sneer, scream, laugh, and generally let it be known that verbal apathy, at least for a brief moment, has been suspended. We care about our profe.ssors, as humans, and as effective teachers. We recognize that our own education suffers when young and vital people are thrust onto the job market, forcing them to take much of their energie~ and commitments away from students (as they must if they are to survive the presently tight market). The old 60%and the present .. Byzantine'\ tenure systems have left no room at Union College for many of these professors. But now there appears to be a viable alternative, a plan which allows a professor to stay on as long as he remains an asset to his students and to the college. If a man or woman is qualified for tenure, and no more tenure slots are available in the department, then the opportunity for an extended contract of some sort will be offered. This, it seems, adequately preserves the all-important academic freedom of professors.( assuming the decision procedure is valid), while also satisfying the \flexible curriculum\ arguments, and, of course, leaves us with our better professors. Although this proposal runs counter to the AAUP (American Association of University Professors) regulations, we feel that it is important .. that Union confront these regulations. If the integrity ofthe institution lies within its \education\ of students, then it can only be a credit to the college to assure and maintain a high-quality faculty. If a proposal contrary to AA UP regulations helpsaccomplishthis, then we must support the proposal. Guy Sacerdoti '73 Peter B. Pach '73 George S. Bain '73 Marty Berman '74 Louis Barash '76 Phil Cali '75 Susan Grelick '76 Amy Smith '76 Judith McCormick '74 Alllll Reisch '75 Phil' Alcabes '7() Rita Morandi '75 Dave Strom '76 Gary Lovett '75 Doug Carpenter '75 CQ\ICORDIENSJS founded at Union College in 1871 Editor-in-Chief ........................ George Bain News Editor ............................. Tim Cain Managing Editors .................... Rita Morandi Dave Strom Features Editor .......................... AI Reisch Sports Editor ..................... Bruce Batchelder Photo Editors .......................... Les Kernan Jeff Weilburg · Business Manager ................. Michael J. Hurley National Advertising .................. Stephen Kelly Subscriptions ......... · ............... Mike Bernstein / Cont1ibuting Editors ............... Peter Bickerman Louis S. Snitkoff Office Staff lllyria Puharich Doug Carpenter Gary Lovett Phil Alcabes Bill West ConcordJensls 1' puhl1sitcd <,''e'l\) hll·,Ja) <Jild l·nd<J~ Jurin!l tit~ ~d1c•ol ~<'Hf cxc~pt during t'XoJminati(ln and \:Jcation pcric><b n) t!w .,tutfmt held) ,,r l·nion College. · Schcncctad). :'\. Y. '\ational ad1 ~~·ti'i ''I! rc•prc''<~11Wt i1 c. \ aticHHII Educ:Jtional Ad1crtising Sen icc•, lnt·. Cnllq!e' l'uhli,lwr' Rqwt'>cntut i1~. :'\aticmnl Educational Ad1crtising Sen in'. I r1c.: .. '-·'.C. I diltlri:il Ollic·c·. Old Gvm. !Inion Cc11!cgc. l'ulllic:uion (~ft'icc. lhc .l~1'i'h \\oriel l'uhllcatitlll'; 771 Siatc Si~cd. Schcncctad\. :'\. Y. I ~307 . .1~11·2.'5~. Filtc·rcd tn tit.: Sdtt'llt't'tad) ptlst office as Second C'1;1ss M;Jil \latlcr.StJhsct'ipti(ln 20 c~nt> a cup) .S~ H )c·w· dcliv~r.:d anv'>l here it1 the llnitcd State'. Deadline i·or all C<lp). which niust he• I) pcd and dclHhlc-'l\lccJ. i> 7 p.m. cHI Mondav und Thursda\ at the Con<\ordf offkc. ~tho\c Old Ch:tpc•l. Oftic~ tel~phonc nu~1hcr ~' .170·tll5.< htll !he: <lllic:c i~ onl~ in u:.c un \lnnda) and Thursday nights. For all c•dit<lrial llHJI!Cr>. call tlte' c•ditur-JJi-chic:l at .NJ- 1640; lor informa1ion call Swdcnl A eli I it ius Olfil·~ :.tl n0-01111. To the editor: After being asked on a recent visit to Union how I liked the food, I felt that the question deserved more then a cursory answer and so decided to write a letter to the editor of the school paper - much like a .survivor of the Graf Zeppelin explosion would feel on being asked \how was your flight'?\ Ln thinking about the state of the culinary arts at Union, one is ha<rd pressed to find suitable images for the task. Dining at Union occupies the same position in the sphere of gastronomic treats that the Titanic occupied in maritime cornmerce, the New Haven Railroad occupies in the history of rail transportation, and the Long lsland Expressway at rush hour occupies in the hearts of automobile. enthusiasts. A few modest proposals seem in order. First, in order to relieve the congestion of trying to force l ,000 people past two checkers in 75 minutes (60 on Sundays), may l suggest that WR UC broadcast traffic reports on the quarter hour during meals ... \Traffic is backed up beyond the entrance ramp. There has been an accident all over ... Eaters are advised to avoid the stew ... etc., etc.\ In slower periods a reporter could stand by in the infirmary giving progress bulletins on some of those lucky enough to have treatable side effects. A special word of advice to visitors - have a special lD bracelet with your Blue Cross-Blue Shield Master Medical Number and a \Who to Notify in Case of' line made up before visiting and wear it during meals. If you thought getting in to eat was hard work you should try getting out in a hurry. There's nothing worse then .discovering that when you get that sinking feeling in your stomach and that rising feeling in your throat, that all the exits are securely locked! Perhaps a few more serious comments are in order. If there are two people checking meal coupons why on earth hasn't someone been smart enough to realize that forming two lines into the dining room would move PYE The Schenectady PYE Club is attempting to decide whether or not it should continue its paper- recycling program this term. In order to continue, it is obvious that we are going to need more help than we can muster from within the club, so we are asking you for your assistance. ' If you would be willing to place a cardboard box on your floor and spend a couple of minutes a week bundling the paper collected in it, then placing the bundles where we can collect them every other Friday, call Paul Marean at 370-4977 and let him know. Do the same if you'd like to ride in the back of a dump truck through the freezing .cold and earn a dollar or two ·on a Friday afternoon collecting paper. In any case, the PYE Club will be making a collection on Friday, Jan. 19. We'll be letting you know if it's the end or not. If you have any, or know of arty great piles of paper on campus, call the above number and let Paul know. As always, the PYE Club is looking for new people with new ideas at its regular Wednesday meetings at 7:30, in the basement of the infirmaty. Please come. RESEARCH MATERIALS All Topics Send for your descriptive, up-to-date, 128-page, mail order catalog of 2,300 quality research papers. Enclose $1.00 to cover postage and handlin1. RESEARCH UNliMITED 519 GLENROCK AVE., SUITE 203 LOS ANGELES, CALIF. 90024 (213) 477-8474 • 477-5493 \We need a local salesman\ Letters To the Editor: During the Christmas holiday I was. fortunate enough to. spend my vacation in southern \Mexico and · Guatemala. During the we* of things faster. SecoJ;td, the food is. <:;hris~mas Day, I was.hitch,..hiking bad eneugh, but · the gen,eral . around Qul).temala City when on attitude of the mob is worse. . December 22, at 12:30 a.m;, the Never have I seen so many city of Managua, the capital 'Of animals pushing, shoving and · Nicarag1.1a, was leveled. By noon otherwise being rude, in any orie thefollowing,day85-90%ohhecity place outside New York City. was in shambles. The city, which Although it's always nice to bring bas a fluctuating population of a little b~t of home with you some 350,000, was destroyed for when you go to school, Centra,) the third time in this centiuy by Park at night wasn't exactly the earthquakes. best bit of nostalgia to pick. If Red· Cross volunteers ,people just showed a little more missionaries were flown in from courtesy and awareness of others, around the world to assist tile mass the whole situation would at least evacuation of the city. The take on an aura of humanity· government has estimated some Next, the person who had the 50,000 people are presumed dead, brillant ic;lea of bringing 'music to while this figure is not accurate the masses' during meals should since no one knows how many be hunted down and suitably people are ·bur.ied among the disposed of. The food makes rubble. · digestion difficult, the garbage While in Guatemala City, I meta blaring over the loudspeakers missionary who had just left the makes :it impossible, along with devastated city,andwas heading to. such obviously incidental the United States to try to collect functions fot the average Union money. She told me that the city student as thinking and talking. ,was being evacu&ted because the Finally, we come to the central government feared the spread of focus of all this commotion - disease, and wanted all lo.oting what is euphemistically called stopped. There were many people 'food' and is dispensed by an who did not want to leave their even more euphemistically homes, but General Anastasio labelled 'Saga Food Service.\ I ld ·d b tt f d ·t ordered all people out of the city S<> cou . prov1 e e · er oo a a lower cost by subcontracting tanks could raze the rest of the city with Massachusetts' Deer Island and cover it with lime to stop the Sewage Treatment Facility. Not smell of the burning flesh. Of the only is most of the material hundreds of thousands that have served literally unfit for the been leaving the city, they are now consumption of any living living in the hills and money is organism, but it looks that way desperately needed to help them re- too. Once, in a fit of anger,- I start their lives again. almost decided to get sick; then I Many Americans who were realized that people would just caught in the earthquake were think I had gone back for given free passage out of the seconds. How the student body, country, but of the few~ that I had and especially the freshmen, wh 0 heard of,Nere in bad physical shape pay for twenty meals a week, put and needed medical attention. up with this blight I'll never Amongst the people native to the understand. I'm sure Union's city, the problem is worse. While admissions office never takes they are all living in the hills now, prospective candidates to lunch what will become of their future? at Saga in order to influence As I was leaving Guatemala, I their decisions. was able to watch poverty-stricken A lament of this sort is Guatemalan people give what little traditionally ended with either an they had to missionaries working \Alas poor Yorick 1 knew him to gather funds for the suffering in well ... •• or a ''What is to be Managua. Now that I am home, I done?\ clause. In the hope of would like to see the more affluent preventing any of my friends at Americans give what they can to Union from ending up like the ·the needy in Managua. There will former I shall choose the latter be a can for any contributions for course. Might I humbly suggest Managua set up in the library. · that someone in a position of Woody Gutherz authority contact the people in Washington and see if funds =========o===== could be made available under the auspices of the Environmental Protection Agency and the Keep ~merica Beautiful Act. After all, if there is hope for Lake Erie and the Hudson River we can at least hope and pray that Saga,tooJmay someday be grabage-free. Sincerely yours, Kenneth Laurence Tyler Harvard Uni~ersity * * * * To the editor: We have heard that our recent article in Blither has caused some consternation among certain members of the campus community we are sorry that it was taken in a spirit other than that intended. We do not wish to be labelled as a -sexi.st organ.ization and the ref ore extend our invitation to include any boys with nice bodies and no minds. Please contact David Henle or Rick Gardner if interested. 370-1809, Stephen Lowe Kappa Alpha The Film Workshop is having its fitst meeting of the tei'm, Tuesday, Jan. 16, in Humanities 113 at 8:30 p.m. Any students interested in film-making are welcome, whether they have had experience or not. This term, students will have the opportunity to work in 16 tnrn as well as 8mm. For more information,· call Norm Thompson at 370-2930. * * * * For inclusion in Concordy, all Blither announcements and Letters to the Editor must be typed and d(luble-spaced. !hank you. * * * * Lost: Just before vacation I lost my fur hat. If someone has seen it, please let me know, as I'm freezing without it.. Ginny Bade, 301 North, 346-9220. Levrs • Dave's\ Mens Shop 453 State St. · (dow~town.Schenecta.dy) MAMA BIANCHI'S RESTAURANT 1135 Barrett St. . Real Italian Food Cooked To Order · W,e Cater T.o Students The Frie11dliest Place in Town C:PEII TO 3 A.M. FRI. ·alld ... SAT.

holiday I · to'spend my and week of when on a.m., the capital ·Qf By. noon city,. which pulation of for century by and in from the mass city. The some dead, accurate how many the left the to to collect the city the spread of looting people their Anastasio the city s 9 of the city stop the Of the that have now money is them re- were ake were of the I had icalshape ive to the While now, future? I little working fferingin home, I can to will for · Gutherz having term, are had term, the mm as more Norm all and he I has as .. CONCORDIENSIS Friday, January 12. 1973 3 Roaming Mind _Continped from Page 1 say. Professor Ligon;; -child- rearing method has thus been .put into practice.· Where does this money come from? Beginning in 1959, Lilly Endowment I!}C •. of lndianapCllis, lndiana has. been contributing grants to the project. As ofthis·date they have ~iven CRP $567,250. In 'the past few years Lilly has been giving $115;000 a year, The rest of the money for the .project comes from the sale of Dr. Ligon's books and materials that are sold 'by the Union College Character Research Project. · Fr. Murphy: Dynamic Force for Social Change by DOUG CARPENTER . R d J M h research, work With the Father Murphy points aut, . everen ames · urp ~· Schenectady Community Action however, that this absence of assistant pastor a~ St. Columbas Program, research into activity does not mean that de <;hurch on .Emmit Street, and a Schenectady's involvement in the changes are not taking place ~~ ~tfe 1 -lonhg restdent. of Schenectady, VietNam war. individuals and society. He says · ee s t at ~here ts a problem of Father Murphy thinks there that religious faith enters into colleges bemg too far removed -. has been an increase in student this \profound seeking within\ not able to relat~ to th~ real apathy toward the war in the and affects change. world - and he 18 w~rkmg t? past two years largely because of Commenting on the Reverends ~olve the 1 probflem at Uf mhon. Thhts the present nature of the war. Daniel and Phillip Berrigan,. ts a resu t o . one o t e t ree Previously, opposition to the war Father Murphy said that their roles Father Murphy feels he was more directly personal; the destruction of draft records was a plays on camp~s. . . possibility of being drafted and dramatic gesture to wake up the He_ has a stnct~y rehgwus role, killed motivated protest. Now, American people, and to that mcludes say1!'g a mass each with the mechanizatian of the demonstrate that we live in a Su~dayh~t:P·~·mOldhChapel.. ,war, and limited draft calls, system of ••massive . e t m 8 t a~. anot er role IS young people don't feel as institutionalized violence.\ The stmply to be available on campus personally threatened. · Y for students who have problems Continued 011 Page. 7 This is not. all iliat CRPhas done to institute thejr ideas. They have developed a sc;hool cmriculumthat is being used in various religious schools around the world. The YMCA is also using several. of CRP's methods. \Around the country there are increasing numbers ·of YMCA summer day camps that are adopting various phase& of character research materials and methods in their programs.\*· Character Research also has teen groups that semi- annually hold youth conferences (some have been held on Union grounds). I try to impress upon the reader the size and impact of the .project. Where does Union Collegec()rne ·into the picutre today? First of all Union College does not give the ,project any money, nor does Dr. Ligon draw a salary from the College. The College acts as a funnel. Money coming from the Lilly Foundation and from Dr. Ligon's other sources comes to the college_with tags on it fortheCRP. The purpm;e being that this money is now non-taxable. Dr. Ligontold me that a CRP corporation C()u!d be set up that would also be given tax exemption. More important than this, Union College gives this project its name and with .it its ·or who just want to talk. In recent years the project has been spending approximately $150,000 annually. The budget for the year just ending was $170,938, with a budget far 1972-73 of $171,645 and a projected budget for 1973-74 of $171,000. CoutQiued on Page 7 Father Murphy is also active in working with people in the community, and trying to get people from Union personally involved in improving life in Schenectady. He feels that there are many things that Union students, as well as faculty, could be doing: surveys, community WRUC Sets New Pace Though one notices little outward change in the state of the campus facilities, WRUC is seething with a new-found enthusiasm. This term, many programming innovations have been undertaken in an effort to expand listener interest in the station. The format of the radio sho.ws will not change substantially, but the addition of many special interest shows will certainly enhance the station's sound. While the programming department has been busy, the tech crew has been mving the campus looking for weak 1 signal points (they found one or two.). The ·signal in general has been found to be fairly clear and strong, except in parts of the troublesome Lenox Road area. The renewed WRUC day still begins with Peter B. Pach spinning the platters from 7 a.m.- 9 a.m., but after that much has been changed. Most notable has been the consolidation of the previously scattered Jazz and Classical shows. Sunday has been dubbed Jazz/ Classical Day. Phantom starts the classical part of the day as he takes the tables away from the Hangover Duo of Stanwick and Baile1f, who work 10 a.m.-noon. Phantom .goes until Phil Kass brings in Chamber Music at 3 p.m. Marcy Shapiro rounds off the classical from five until 6 p.m., when Tom White switches the mood to Jazz/ Blues. At 7 p.m. William· Shockley covers Black Jazz until 9 p.m., when Dan Miley returns to the Jatz/ Blues format until 10 p.m. Then Mike Milsom takes over spinning more of the same until midnight. Dave Zox handles t,he more diverse jazz forms from midnight-2 p.m. Other changes include the designation of9-10 p.m. time slot for some special shows. Monday, AI Bingham makes 9-10 p.m. an Hour of Soul. Tuesday, George Lipsky will invite students to collie in and play live fro!Jl studio C (this will include discussions of the music being played), again in the 9-10 p.m. slot. On Wednesday 9-10 p.m. means Chuck Rothman, who will play and discuss new albums and also the works of any performers due to appear on campus. Thursday Bill Poellmitz will use 9-10 p.m. to explore the origins and travels of musicians, writers, or trends in rock. Finally 9-IO p.m. Friday brings Gary Dryfoos, who will work as the Wizard of ld. Showtunes and Comedy have midnight-2 a.m. slots on Tuesday and Wednesday respectively. Dave Williams and Curt Abbott will host these two-hour shows. Chris Fink is holding d0wn 6-7 p.m. Monday through Friday. Chris will do his best to make your dinner hour as deleficious as possible. For the listener who wants two hours of Solid Gold (by request) then Smokey J oe•s Cafe should fill that bill. Smokey Joe's will cruise out of the past each Thursday night 10-12 p.m. Continued on Page 6 WRUC WINTER TERM AIR MONDAY WEDNESDAY 6:55-7:05 . Pastor Wells 6:55~7:05 Pastor Wells 7-9 am Peter Pach 7-9am Peter Pach 9-10 am Don Kaplan 9-lOam Don Kaplan· 10-11 am Charlyce Jones 10-Noon Gary Myszkowski 11-noon Bruce Chadborne 12:05 Live News - Tom Stimson 12:05 Live News- Tom Stimson Noon.-1 Peggy Miller Noon-1 pm Peggy Miller 1-3 pm Emily Mendoza 1-3 pm C=;ul Schwartz· 3-5 pm Nelson Weil 3-Spm Roberta Catozzi 5-6 pili Dan Miley 5-6pm Bob Bentley 6:05 Live News 6:05 Live News 6-7pm Chris Fink 6-7pm Chris Fink 7-9 prn Bruce Sostek 7-9 Tom Behrendt 9-lOpm Chuck Rothman (New Releases) 9-10 AI Bingham (Soul) lO:O() Live News - Dan Miley 10:00 Live News - Dan Miley l0-12 pm Dave Lustig 10-12 pm Howard Seife 12-2am Curt Abbott 12-2 am Richard Liner THURSOAY TUESDAY 6:55M7i05 Pastor Wells 6:55-7:05 Pastor Wells 7-9 atn Peter Pach 7-9am · Peter Pach · 9-lOam Kelley Newton 9-10 am Kathy Mitchell 10-11 am Scott Glass 10-11 am Bruce Chadborne 11-Noon Greg Luntz/Fred Weil 11-Noon Marty Sherman 1'2:05 Live News- Tom Stimson 12:05 Live News -Tom Stimson Noon-1 pm Peggy Miller Noon-1 Barry Schiff 1-3 pm Ginger Hobart/ Kathy Reynolds 1-3 Dave Gm:don 3-5pm Howard Epstein 3-5 pm Lewis lnsler 5-6 pm Mark Shnitkin 5-6pm Kelley Newton 6:05 Live News 6:05 Live News 6-7pm Chris Fink 6-7pm Chris Fink 7-9.pm Marc Jaffe 7·-9pm Doug Carpenter 9-10 _pm Bill Poellmitz 9-10 pm George Lipsky (Live Talent) 10:00 Live News- Dan Miley 10:00 Live News - Dan Miley 10-12 pm Peter Pach (Smokey's Joe Cafe) I0-12pm Carl Evans 12-2 am Chuck Rothman 12 ... 2 am Dave Williams (Showtunes) Father Murphy SCHEDULE FRIDAY 6:55-7:05 Pastor Wells 7-9 am 'Peter Pach 9-10 am Don Kaplan 10-11 am Steve Reinhardt 11-Noon Steve Reinhardt 12:05 Live News - Tom Stimson Noon-2pm Tonr Stimpson 2-5 pm Dave Strom 5-6 pm Phantom 6:05 Live News 6-7 pm Chris Fink 7-9pm Tony Merrill/Bernard Carey 9-11 pm Gary Dryfoos 11-2am Mark MacDonald SATURDAY 1-3 pm Steve Sokol 5-6 pm Andy Walsh 6:05 Live News 6-7 pm Marge Mitchell 10-12 Marc Altman 12-2 am Rob McMichaels SUNDAY ('Classical/Jazz) 9-Noon Conrad Bailey f George Stanwick (The Hangover Show) Noon-3 pm Phantom 3-5 pm Phil Kass 5·6 pm Marcy Shapiro 6:05 Live News 6-7 pm Tom White 7-9 pm William Shockley 9-10 pm Dan Miley 10:00 Live News - Dan Miley 10-12 pm Mike Milson 12-2 am Dave Zox

4 CONCOft_DIENS/S Friday, January 12. /973 Eye photos by Bill Erichson and Jeff Wei/burg Union

4 . \ CONc_ORDIENSIS Friday, January 12. 1973 Eye On photos by Bill Erichson and Jeff Wei/burg Union .II Ci \ ~ ... l ~\ I '

CONCORDf.f}!'/~~JS Fridax, Jan11ary 12, ~973 The.Union Book Needs Your Help Page -after page of neatly captic,med pictures, a tribute to the glories (real or ficticious) of Alma Mater, diary, white space, freak show, a _ pictorial text 'on architecture, extension of the Art Department (or the Athletic Department), social commentary, ego trip, Who's Who, ... All of these things, and more, a yearbook can be. The deciding factor is the personality and views of the editor- in-chief and his staff. Some five years ago the last Garnet was published; it was edited by a group of students who were . interested in putting out something more than a normal yearbook. The final product was a hard look at the ..:Llllcge and the community, all of v. h1ch was not appreciated by the ~tudent body. Protest rallies were held at which inflamatornpeeches were made and the speeches were followed by even more inflamatory book burnings, but there was little useful criticism and few students offered- their services to the new editor. So, the first Union Book continued the artistic' style ·Of the last Garnet, but this time t.Q.e students did not protest and burn their books, instead, they just didn't pick up their copies. Both trends have continued; today the Union Book has gained national recognition as one of •the fmest photographic works by college students, and Union students still do not pick up their yearbooks. In 1968 there were I, 750 copies of the Garnet printed, but today only 1,000 copies of the Union Book are printed for an expanded student body. Somewhere along the line the student body and the staff of the Union Book lost touch with each other: an unfortunate event since student tax money makes up $16,000 of the yearbo0k•s budget. At this time It is difficult to call that immense expanse of white space known as the Union Book the yearbook of Union College. It is, ·without a doubt, a notable artistic creation, but if its purpose is to capture the neeting essence of a year at Union Cellegc;, then it has failed. It is easy to place the blame for the book's failure on a series of editors who rnay have been more interested in excellent photography than in producing a balanced yearbook. But the real blame must rest squarely on the shoulders of the student body of Union. If you want to change something, then you have to get involved and contribute your thoughts and work. Putting out a yearbook is .not a pleasant task; there is a great deal ofboring work involved and the editors do not see the fruits of their long labors until a copy is mailed to them the following October. Considering ;~.11 of the difficulties involved in working on the yearbook, it is no wonder that so few people volunteer their services. At this time the staff of the Union Book, under the direction of John Ludwig and William Gores is ' attempting to put out a real yearbook for the students of Union. In order to do this we need the help of the student body. We do not ask that you devote the major part of your free time to the book and join the staff but we do want your help. If you have ideas, then come to a meeting of the staff; we have them every Tuesday at 8:00P.M. in the Union Book office on the second floor of the Arts Building. If you have a camera, then take some pictures and give us your black and white negatives; in fact, if you shoot 35mm film, we will give you film to shoot. Just bring your negatives to a yearbook meeting or leave them in the Union Book box in the Student Activities Office. Every idea, every picture will receive full consideration from both John and I. With your help the Union Book will once again be the yearbook of Union College. 5

... .,,'·l .>,;..• ::~ \'' ;~ i ,. ~ f, I ~ ' I II I l r~ I I I I y I ~. ' I ' CONCORDIENSIS Friday, January 12, 1973 The Union Book Needs Your Help Page after page of neatly captioned pictures, a tribute to the ::J,Hil.'s (real or ficticious) of Alma \l.tt<.:r, diary, whitl.' ~pal.'c, freak 'i\JV. ..1 pllllHtal tc:o.t tlll ui'-HilcdUJc, .;.,ldL,IUil ul the Ail Department (or the Athletic Department), social commentary, ego trip, Who's Who, ... All of these things, and more, a yearbook can be. The deciding factor is the personality and views of the editor- in-chief and his staff. Some five years ago the last (;arnet was published; it was edited ny a group of students who were illtcrcsted in putting out something 1:1orc than a normal yearbook. The : .nal product was a hard look at the u>llcgc and the community, all of \1 h1ch was not appreciated by the ,tudcnt body. Protest rallies were :dd at which inflamatory speeches 1\Cre made and the speeches were tollowed by even more inflamatory D<>ok burnings, but there was lillie useful criticism and few students ,,fkred their services to the new l.'d i tor. So, the first Union Book ..:ontinued the artistic style of the last Garnet, but this time the 'tudents did not protest and burn their books, instead, they just didn't pick up their copies. Both trends have continued; today the Union Book has gained - _,_.-_,..,._ •.. ,. , ... ~~ f' f: national recognitioA as one of the finest photographic works by college students, and Union sludcnts stiH do not pick up their ~earh,,ok~ ln 19fiR there \\ere I, 750 cup;o ()! l he Garnet pr intnl. but today only l ,000 copies of the Union Book are printed for an expanded student body. Somewhere along the line the student body and the staff of the Union Book lost touch with each other: an unfortunate event since student tax money makes up $16,000 of the yearbo0k's budget. At thi~ time it is difficult to call that immense cxpame of white space known as the l'nion Book the yearhoo~ of Union College. It is, without .a doubt, a notable artistic crcat1on, but if its purpose is to capture the fleeting essence of a year at Union College, then it has failed. lt i~ easy to place the blame for the book's failure on a series of editors whn may have been more interested in excellent photography than in producing a balanced yearbook. But the real blame must rest squarely on the shoulder!> of the student body of Union. If you want to change something, then you have to get involved and contribute your thoughts and work. Putting out a yearbook is not a pleasant task; there is a great deal of boring work involved and the editors do not see the fruits of their long labors until a copy is mailed to them the follnw in~ Octohn rnnsidcri ng a 11 nf lh·: diffinrltil'' in\Phed in \\ lll ~ : !i J; •, >11 ( h l' Jl' ,!I f-> I 1 <l ~ , i t j' ll () wonder that so few people volunteer their services. At this time the staff of the Union Rook, under the direction of John Ludwig and William Gores is· attempting to put out a real yearbook for the students of Union. In order to do this we need the help oft he student body. We do not ask that you devote the major part of your free time to the hnok and join the staff but we do want your help. If yuu have ideas, then come to a meeting of the staff; we have them evel) Tuesday at 8:00P.M. in the Union Book office on the second floor of the Arts Building. If you ha vc a camera, then take some picturl'' and give us your black and white negatives; in fact. if you shoot :15mm film, we will give you film to shoot. Just bring your negative~ to a yearbook meeting or leave them in the Union Book box in the Student Activities Office. Everj idea, every picture will receive full consideration from both John and I. With your h.elp the t:nion Book will once again be the yearbook of Union College. 5

., 6 CQ]VCORD/EN_.$1$ Fridar_.__January 12, 1973 -Newsances Resumption of the American bombing of North Vietnam has spurred little reaction from the American public, noticeably from the student sector .•. The response: abroad has been a little different. Premier Olaf P111lme of Sweden issued a statement to the press comparing the U.S. bombing of · N. V. with Nazi massacres in World War l~ ... Washington reply was diplomatic retaliation... Thomas Uren, a high official of the Australian government, accused Nixon of ''false pretentions,\ \double dealing,\ and \a mentality of thuggery\ in his Vietnam policy... Generally the European press, led by Le Monde, has been highly critical of the recent stepped-up bombing of N.V .... While delicate arms-limitation talks are being conducted between U.S. and Soviet diplomats, the. American Navy has just signed an accord with the Stamatopoulos regime enabling Athens to become the American Navy's largest home po!!__ in Et!rope... back home ... Kissingerian Diplomacy has been suffering from a credibility gap ever since the promise of \Peace is at hand\ never even touched the finger tips... The projected best seller for next month will be: The Rise and FaD of Heinz Kissinger ••• Hitler's 1940 Mercedes brought $153,000 at a classic car auction, a very high price for an old used car... latest... E. Howaud Hunt, former ~ixon aide, pleads guilty to Watergate plot, and is released on $100,000 bail. Interviewed by newsmen, he confessed that \anything I may have done ... I did Mrs. Antoinette Reid it in the best interest of my country.. and I believe that I should pay the consequences\ ... locally... all is calm at Union College ..... Francesco R-adio Continued from Page 3 WRUC plans to go traveling several times during the term. Remotes are planned for the BrothersThree and another from the Fox Lounge. Details are being worked out and the dates of these events will be announced as soon as possible. The WRUC sports team will also be working. Already planned is a trip to Williams for the January 24th basketball contest. Rick Jones will once again handle the WRUC sports mike. AOC's Services Continued from Page 1 night, so as not to interfere with college classes. · Mrs. Reid has been most gratified by ·the results of this program. She cited the case of one student who just earned two B's and an A, a student who might never have entered college at all were it not for AOC. Also pleasing, Mrs. Reid said, is the \marvelous cooperation from the faculty.\ Although some professors complained, at its inception, about the program, the College staff is now very he'TPful. The campus community has also come to the aid of . AOC. One student came to Union lacking enough clothing. Mrs. Reid mentioned the situation at Schaffer Library; Union people undertook a clothing drive and came up with a proper wardrobe ·_ even some new clothes were donated. Mrs. Reid also coordinates Host Families - people who tutor AOC and other minority students, and provide, as well, a homelike atmosphere in which to resolve their problems. She herself is always available, in her office in Stoller Hall (above Old Chapel) and at home, for these students to talk over their troubles. Mrs. Reid is a graduate of Howard University, in Washington, D.C. She has a daughter at Raddiffe, and her son works for General Electric. She did several years of community service volunteer work, before corning to Union in 1967 with Upward Bound, a program for high school students, designed to motivate them to pursue their education. ago. She has since taken on add·itiortal duties. One is graduate counseling for AOC and minority students; many graduate schools have special programs or separate admissions standards for these people. Another is finding jobs for AOC students. She also arranges tutoring . for any student of. the College and, on request, for local high school students. Due to the shortage of funds (although some Federal funding is available), many of the AOC teachers are volunteers, declining to accept the salary which they might claim. Tutors are drawn in part from volunteers on campus; Union students are welcome to offer their services. In some cases, tutors may receive a small fee. However. the AOC tutors, Mrs. Reid assures, help out because they want to, because they are dedicated people. Mrs. Reid sees the AOC program as a definite success; she expects that under the leadership of Professor William Daniels and Dean Herbert Wy len, it will continue to improve. \I love this job,\ she affirmed. '\I should be paying the College.\ AdmisSions . (:ontinued from Pil~e 1 Mitchell Benson, an interviewer, estimates that he has given fifteen to twenty interviews since the fall term began. With nearly 1500 applicants far next year's freshman class, he sees a small . percentage. Peter Logan, Assistant Director of Admissions, noted that because an interview is\ not required of Union applicants, only little,. if any, emphasis is placed on its results. Ife commented that the interview is mote for the. applicants. giving them the. opportunity to ask questions, than it is for the admissions staff. Mr. Logan said that little can be determined about the applicant through an interview. A small percentage make an overwhelmingly good or bad imPression, and in that instance, the interview does have more importance. l asked Chuck Sabatt how he gives an interview to some nervous applicant. He replied, \First I start with a warm-up routine to break the ice. I introduce myself, I explain that I am a student . .J can tell that some don't believe me.\ This seems to be somewhat of a problem for the interviewers. Parents and applicants find it, rather unusual that the app1icant should be talking to someone of his peer group. Whether or not he is able to convince the individual that he is Chuck finds that the most common question .asked is, .. what are;: my chances of getting in'!\ That · he can never answer. Applicants also ask about social life and facilities, and the cultural aspects .of the community. After an interview, the Gatesman must fill out a questionnaire and write a summary of the interview which is given to the admissions staff. Mitchell Bens.on conducts his interviews in much the same way. His favorite question is ''is there semething special or desirable about you as an applicant to Union?H Mitchell enjoys giving interviews and feels that. they are a more personal aspect of the application process·. . He feels that \if it were manetarily possible, I think it would be good to ha;ve a mandatory i,nterview, thus allowing it to weigh equally with the SAT's and other factual aspects of the application.\ Presently, the statistics about each student are fed into· the computer, which gives a prognosis on how each student will do at Union and then the admissions staff makes the final decision. Mitchell finds that a common question is,\ how well Union does at getting people into grad11ate school.\ Parents inquire about anything from drugs to sex, and many are also concerned about coeducational living. When asked by a parent if people smoke pot here, Mitchell replies, ' 1 no more than any place. else.\ This serves to answer the question in a vague, but truthful, way. a student, Chuck continues, inquiring about the applicant's educational motivation. Then he puts a difficult question to them, \what can you contribute to Union College'!\ Chuck feels that although this is a probing question, it allows the applicant to use his imagination and possibly tell more about him or herself. He remarked that, '~he interview is somewhat limited by the expectations of the person being interviewed. If they feel they must impress me or if they are mostly interested in getting information, you are talking about two entirely different interviews.\ Next year the Gatesmen hope to have some senior women as interviewers. Since the Class of 1974 is the first class of coeds that will have been at Union since their freshmen year, this seems most probable. , Dave'sMeas Shop 453 State St. (downtown ·Schenectady)c PROCTOR'S Wi.U~ STATE ST., SCHEHECT tHf't lllllf:::::::::~:;~:;:;:;:?.i:!:!~::~;::::;~:~1:~;:~:§!:i:i:!:W~:::~:~~~~ :~::; Jan. 10-Jan. 16 :::::: ~~~~ILDERNESS~~~~ ~1 JOURNEY ~~~!~ .... , r·· i:~Wildlife spectacularM ::::: . :::::: §;:: m Alaska );? ~!lh~::;:~:~M:!:l!;:;~:::::::::::::~::;:;:§;!f.~~:::~:::?.JJ~ COMING- There is plenty of activity at the station, along with the possibility of special presentations during the term. Some members of the Mountebanks have discussed the possibility of performing a radio play. In fact, the increased membership has caused an expension of the production department, and this should be teflected in the quality of the taped broadcasts. Another feature to watch for is the \Fourth Tower in Inverness.\ This is a mystery serial that will run every night at II :30 p.m. It's five minutes of Firesign Theatre- like mystery. There will be a half- hour recap of the week's events every Sunday. In I 969, AOC began as an offshoot of Upward Bound called Project Hope. ··Because she felt more could be done with AOC, ·Mrs. Reid moved to it two years * * * * A snowy setting for the Wizard of Oz. to hJ• the ¥ounties Sunday. P-------~~~~--~~ Jan. 24-Jan. 30 Sword in the Stone - - - I t - The Security Office still maintains the campus Lost and Found and has a collection of sneakers, watches, books, and other sundries, which may be claimed upon proper identification. .- - - - ATTENTION tevrs Dave's Mens Shop 453 State St. (downtown SchenectCJdy) SOPHOMORE COEDS Come In And Pick Up Your Union College Key ••• GRATIS ••• Jewlers It ., •r---------.--------~--~-. Quslity Oloihes ... Quantit;y \.Fm:~s ... &ve/{9W'\~t . _ r;tli ~ ................. ANNUAL WINTER IS NOW IN PROGRESS SAVE AT LEAST 20% :~, prlcet We otter • ffne stltcflan af winter - • SUITS e TOPCOATS & OVERCOATS • SPORT COATS • SLACKS D t a • SUBIJ.RBAN COATS • A. .A...... • • B c· ba & Sons own own • • SPORT SHIRTS • kNIT SHIRT$ IVId.UriCe . •· . rau . rt ·. Schenect.ady • CARiliGA_N SWEATERS. PULLOVER SWIATE,RS . ;;:tli • NECKWEAR and many other ifelllal \3 Union Graduates in Graubart family\ 1 ~ . • ......... ·-· .,., ,,.,, , .... ._,._ .,, ~~·----------4-~~~~~----~--l-6 4 6~J_a~!~S--t~.e_e_t~~~~~~-~------~~~~t•~--------·------------------------~•

most \what in?\ answer. social cultural the out a a which staff. his way. there to giving hey are of :the were hink it a thus with factual about the a stQdent the final Union into inquire to people . else.\ the uthful, hope as of coeds Union this • CONCORD/EN SIS Friday, January 12. 1973 The Big Brothers and Big Sisters pr.ogram has sche- duled three movies and a roller skating party for the winter term. The movies will all be shown in SS 016 at 3:45 p.m. on the following dates (refreshments will be served}: Saturday 27 · January: The Lone Ranger. Saturday l7 February: The General (Buster Keaton), and The Great Chase (W.C. Fields). Saturday lO March: The Music Man. The entire college community is invited to these films; in the event ·of an overflow crowd, seating priority will go to big & little sisters &. brothers. Faculty children are welcome! Details concerning the roller skating party will he announced at a later date. Any male interested in· helping with the supervision of a one hour per we.ek swimmin.g progr~m at the Yates School please contact Bruce Downsbrough at 346-5142. You need not know rhuch about swimming (they need someone for the boys locker room). The time is 1:30 - 2:30 every Tuesday afternoon. · * * * * Notice to all former Union Rook photographers: If you want to pick up your old negatives and/ or prints, please come to the next meeting, at 8 'p.m. in the Arts Building, Tuesday, January 16. * * * * Information on New York State· Graduate Fellowships in Social Sciences or Public or Internal Affairs is available at the Office of the Dean of Students, Old Gym Hall. * * * * Man's Mind Volunteers are needed to help move furniture for the Church Women United of Schenectady next Friday night, January 19th. Call Frank Isler at 370-060 I. * * * * The next sessien of the student- faculty Bridge Club will be held on T1,1esday, January 23, at 7:45 in the Hale House Faculty Lounge. All those wishing to participate are welcome. The results of the last tournament are as follows: I. Bob Lavin-Mike Fishman 2. Bob Feller-Mike Levinson 3. Joel Weinstein-Lowell Putnam * * * * The Political Forum will present a debate, with Professors Byron Nichols and Charles Gati, next Monday, January 15, at 4:30 p.m. in SS 112. The topic will be, \Can politics be studied as a science?\ * * * * Wrestling Continued from._fage 3 prestige. On any of th.e publications that CRP produces tt is identified as the Union College Character Research Project. Its mailing address is also known this way. Further, it is com~letely identified with the College m the College's own academic register. Continued from Page 8 Thus, the Dutchmen wrestling team has a new face, and this Saturday they will travel to Williams, to wrestle against the Ephman and tough Coast Guard, and then, we will all know what Everlin_g has this year. Levrs Dave's Mens Shop 4S3 State St. (downtown Schenectady) Ir.etum to my original question: should Union College support research that \it\ disagrees with? I say \disagree but is this really so? More importantly, who decides? Then . again, should anyone? Are college!l to embrace allideas? How about ROTC? Communist Party? Nazi . Party? Genetic research? Research to develop napalm? Urgently Needed! I personally am unsure, for if a college will not explore all realms of activity arid research, then who will? How will man progress? *Leona J. Smith, Adventures in Character Education, Vol. 21, No. l, May 1966, Published by CRP *Adventures in Character Education Vol. 21, No. 2 August 1966. Published by CRP. - - - -.....; Married coup;· •-. babysit part/full time. Permanent live in . situations available for :his semester. Work as much as you want. Call University Family Services Inc. (Agency) 456-0998 .. ..: - ---- -- Now open 7 days( week I The Brothers III I L under \Union\ management !MEALS- 11 a.m.-12 Midpigh~ I l I Assorted Variety Of Hot & Cold S~ndwiches At College Prices ·. . ~1679 iVan Vranken Ave. j FOLKSINGER~ DRAFT BEER ) 374-5679 1 FRIDAY NIGH] k ./ 2 bloc sup ~ __ E~CELLENT DARK BEE! f!!' TAP I , I I A meeting will be held to discuss. plans for anti-war actlVlttes during Inauguration Week Tuesday night at 7 p.m. in HU 115. * * * * Anyone interested in taking skating lessons please contact Valerie Hoffman, 214 Richmond, 346-9848. Transportation to Girling Center is needed. If there is enough interest, group lessons wiU be arranged. Cost: private lessons - $1/15 minutes; group lessons (8 or more people) 50¢/ hour. * * * * Anyone going to Washington, D.C. for the Saturday, January 20th demonstration at the inauguration of Richard Nixon, please contact Woody Gutherz. Students must participate because we are the ones who will suffer under his regime. * * * * Applications for Resident Adviser may be picked up at the Residence Program Office in Old Gym Hall. The deadline for return to the Residence Office is January 19. In order to be considered for a Resident Adviser position, a student l must have a strong interest in working with others and be willing to contribute to the position. 2 should have a 2.5 average. J should plan on being on campus for all three terms. 4 should not hold a job or plan on taking evening courses which would requiFe being away from the floor during evening hours. ·5 must he available some weekends for dormitory duty. There will be openings for men and women. * * * * Hillel's Phone 'Call To Moscow by MARCY KATE SCHWART7, On November 30, 1972, Union College Hillel telephoned Viktor Pearlman ..of Moscow, U.S.S.R., one of many Soviet Jews who wished to emigrate from the U.S.S.R. because of religious oppression there. Visas to leave the country are extremely difficult to get. Usually requests for visas are turned down with no explanation. Contact with Jews of the Western World is Soviet Jewry's main source of encouragement and hope. Hillel obtained Mr. Pearlman's name and phone number from Student Struggle for Soviet Jewry, a New York City based organization working on behalf of Soviet Jewry. Student Struggle told Hillel that the call would probably take a long time to place and also warned Hillel that the Soviet Secret Police, the K.G.B., monitors all calls made to known Jewish Activists. Therefore, the call that they would make would probably be monitored. Preparations for the call were then made. November 30, 1972, the first night of Chu. ', ·lh, was chosen as the time to make the call. The call was made at nighttime so it would be morning in Moscow, and during Chanukah, for Chanukah is a Jewish holiday celebrating the triumph of a small minority of Jews over the Greek King Antiochus' religious oppression. ' A telephone hook-up was set up at WRUC studios so that all who came would be able to hear the conversation . All was made ready, and the call was put through · at- approximately 10:50 p.m., only twenty minutes later than expected. Paul Ebin, speaking on behalf of Hillel, introduced himself as Yaacov from America. Paul questioned Mr. Pearlman about recent demonstrations, arrests and about prison conditions (many Soviet Jews are -arrested for slandering the U.S.S.R., and for various other reasons). Mr. Pearlman answered most questions briefly, and some not at all. Throughout the entire conversation his fear and tension were almost tangible. Quite obviously he knew that the K.G.B. was listening in. At one point all Mr. Pearlman could say was, ••1 am afraid.\ After about fifteen minutes of conversation seven students sang \Am Yisrael Chai,\ \The People of Israel Live\ to Viktor PearJman. At this point, all tension broke, and Mr. Pearlman didn't care who was listening. All he could say was, \Bless those nice children.\ There is a traditional parting among Jews, \Yashanah habaah b 'Yerushalayim,\ \next year in Jerusalem.\ The call ended with those present wishing Mr. Pearlman the best they could, \Yashanah hazot b'Yerusha- layim,\ \this year in Jerusalem.\ Afterwards Hillel called Student Struggle to report the outcome of the call. It was then they found out why the call had gotten through so quickly, for the K.G.B. had wanted the call to get through. Viktor Pearlman was under surveillance for Dissemination of False Information to the West. The · K.G.B. was obviously hoping for' more evidence from the phone call. Hillel was assured, though, that making the phone call was a good thing: the more the Soviet government would realize that Viktor Pearlman was being watched by the West, the more they would also realize that his arrest would make for bad international public relations. Everyone left with a great feeling, of satisfaction:, and the feeling became even greater when an article entitled \Soviet Lets Writer Go To Israel\ appeared in the New York Post on December 19, 1972. The article was about Viktor Pearlman. Hoop Win Continued from Page 1 they had was an intangible spirit. If the Rochester game, and the Albany State game a week before, are any indication of how much Walters can get out of a learn, then .there should be no doubt about his ability. . ... Great Dane Coach Dick Sauers lamented after the final game in the C.D. tourney, \That's thefirsttime I've ever been out-disciplined.\ That in itself is quite a compliment to Walters. But there is more to Union's team than Walters' discipline. The pride in th~ir unit, and especially in their defense, comes from within each individual. In the hectic locker room after the victory, Mike Doyle checked the books. Usually a player will do this to see his poi~t total, but not Mike. With sweat literally sweeping over his entire body from another amazing job he shouted, \We held '.em to 55 points, can you believe it? 55 points!\ You can believe the post locker room celebration was not flowing with coke. •••••••••••••••• 5 JAY 5· 1 Billiard : 1 Lounge 1 I 167' Jay St. I • -· RELAX- • • • • PLAY POOL • • • • Daily 10-10 p.m. • •. Sunday 2~8 p.m. I •••••••••••••••• 7 The Union College Hillel group is planning a large Oneg Shahbat (Sabbath Party) for Friday evening, January 26, 1973. Included in the plans are candle-lighting ceremonies, welcoming of the Sabbath (Kabalat/Shabbat) services, to be followed by a full-course dinner, study groups, and much singing and dancing. All those interested in attending are asked to contact Paul Ebin at 370-:5196 or Marcy Schwartz in 312 West by January 19 so that proper arrangements can be made for food and activities. There is no cost. All are invited to attend and participate. Shabhat Shalom. * * * * Murphy Continued from Page 3 were \speaking to the hearts\ of Americans. The Berrigans' experience is an example of what Father Murphy describes as the increasing cost of changing society. He feels that many people are willing to make the sacrifices necessary for change, and that these people only need to be provided with the proper stimulus. That, in essence, is what Father Murphy is trying to provide, both on and off campus. Track Continued front Page 8 Clayton and freshman Bob Baribeau add depth to the pole vault. Captains McCabe and Hamlin will lead a Strong middle distance crew - Crawford Cutts, Mark Mindel, David White and Fred Pressley. Returning senior Stan Jackson will head the high jumpers, while freshman Milt Herring and sophomore Chris Doulides share the sprinting duties. Jim Smith will be tackling the long distances along with freshman hopeful Steve Jones, who showed great merit in cross country. Coach Ken Michaelsen, returning for his second year in. charge, sees great promise in his troops and hopes to see a repeat of last year's undefeated outdoor CIVIL ENGINEERS This summer the Peace Corps will begin programs for Civil Engineers in: Kenya Thailand Micronesia Ecuador Honduras Venezuela Afghanistan Iran Morocco Turkey and others. For project descrip- tions see the Peace Corps liaison on campus or: CONTACT: Peace Corps 90 Church St·., rm. 1403 New York, N.Y. 10007 (212) 264-7123

8 FridaJ', Januarv 12. 1973 Hoop Stuns- Rochester 60·55; Walker Nets 15 by LEAPIN' The tremendously improved play of Chuck Abba,, a gutty second half performance by Mike Doyle, a fine back-up effort by Tom Combs and the overall fundamental discipline of Gary Walters' team all contributed to a Union win over Rochester on Wednesday night. The 60-55 upsef was engineered by a team that has to be considered weaker than the team that dropped a 79- 69 decision at Rochester last year. At any rate, the Garnet avenged that loss against the Ye1Jow J~ckets, who had at least a three inch height advantage along the frontline. Their height did them no good, though, as UR was out-rebounded 41-37 in the game. That statistical fact typified the Garnet effort-scrappy play and hustle from the opening tip-off. Although Rochester built an early 8-7 lead, they were to score but 4 .points in the final 15 minutes of the first half. The Dutchmen opened up a nine point lead of 22-13 at 14:38, which held up at halftime, 28-19. The visiting Yellowjackets managed eight field goals in the opening stanza on just l3 shots and they committed 23 turnovers, mostly caused by Union's tenacious defense but also due in part to their sloppy overall play. The Garnet had 32 shots in the first half and completed 12 of them. W.hile this percentage is considerably poorer than Rochester's, their ability to outshoot their foes . by a substantial margin re~ulted in their intermission lead. Geoff Walker had nine of his game- high IS points and Abba added four buckets in the first half. Rochester cut the lead to 30-25 in the initial stages of the second half, but it didn't last long as this acted as a call-to-arms for the Dutchmen, who retained the slim lead throughout the rest of the game. Mike Doyle's 12 points and 7 rebounds led the Garnet in the second half. A frustrated 'Jacket created a potential temper flare- up with 5:17 remaining, but two alert officials stepped between the protagonists with admirable alacricity to stave off the fight. This was but one example of the high quality that the referees exhibited during the game. With 4:42 left to play in the game, the Garnet held their photo by Bin Eric:hs1on Geoff Walker goes up for two of his game high 15 points against the University of Rochester at Memorial Fieldhouse Wednesday night. Thus far. Walker has been scoring at the pace of hetter than 10 points a game and is the fourth leading scorer on the team. largest lead of the night, 5 1-38~ vfctory, Tom Combs put. the but Rochester put themselves final nail in the UR coffin With a back into the game with six one-and-one conversion. \Turtle\ straight points. A Doyle tip made hit two of three field goals and it 54-44 with 2:28 left, but the all but one of his six free throws Yellowjackets refused to die. and he was, as much as anyone With I: 16 left, they closed to 56- else, the difference in the game. 51 on two free throws after Union's record now stands at 4- Abba had fouled out. 3. The next game is on January Abba fully deserved the 17th, as it plays host to Amherst. standing ovation he received The boxscore: when he left the game. The Fieldhouse crowd quieted only when the first of the two free throws was made. With a minute separating the Garnet from Garno Winters Upson Friedman Murphv Turner Fass Union o FT' 3 .. IIi IIIIChll\ 1 1 3- q«rVte 3 2 a AbbtJ 3 o 6 Walker 3 2 8 Combs 7 2 16 Gugliotta 1 2 4 Crawford G F'T \ t 9 .. 6 14 4 1 9 .6 315 2 5 9 1 0 2 1 D 2 To~ 2111 55- Totals 22 16 60 Indoor Track by ALISON SLOAT This Saturday marks the official opening of the indoor track season for the Union College thinclads. The largest team in Union's history will travel to Williamstown, Mass. to challenge the Ephmen and the Hamilton Continentals in a triangular meet. The Garnet will be led by captains Greg H~mlin and Tim McCabe. Three record breakers from last year will be returning ~o strengthen the ranks: Bill Mowrey in the shot put, pole vaulter Dave Ricks, and long ~ jumper• Pete W~lrath. photo by Bill Erichson . Sophomore Bob Ca?le Will t~am . . . . . up . with Mowrey m the sno~: l Chuck Abba gets set to pass the hall to Mike DoJ·Ie m while senior Bill \Floater 1 ·Wednesday nights com•indng win over Rochester. Contlnuecl on :.Paae 7 Undefeated Frosh Sting UR, 82-56 Billy the Kid and Little Lee Although upstaged by the varsity's performance, the freshmen basketball team was also in top form as they easily defeated a junior varsity from Rochester, 82-56. Union had one sloppy stretch . late in the half, they still retained a comfortable 36-26 lead at intermission. The second stanza was similar to the first, although the Union lead was increasing rather ·than decreasing toward the final buzzer. John Raymond { 13 points) and. Bill Coppula ( lO points) continued to add consistent scoring and rebounding to the attack, which offset an off-night on. the part of Ray Marcinowski who tallied only five points. The defense held Rochester in check most of the way, as the freshmen became 4-0 on the year. T earn depth. was evident, as shown by the fact that non-starters Mark Gillum, Joel Fisher, Dave Viniar, Brian Breton and Mark Glazer combined for 28 poi~ts. Playing against f.ive starti-ng · sophomores, the frosh jumped out to their customary early lead that they never relinquished. Paced by the Chaminade (Mineola) backcourt duo of Steve Kelly and Bill Henson, the Garnet opened up a 22-6 advantage midway through the first half. Kelly, who eventually led the team with 18 points, and Henson, who handled the ball flawlessly, were standouts throughout the evening. This early lead afforded Coach Scanlon the luxury of substituting freely and although Grapplers Ready;_ 'Kong' To Wrestle by FRAN.CESO ISGRO Led by team captain Mark Zullo and heavyweight champ Howard Benedict, the Union College grapplers captured the Albany fnvitational for the third straight time. Trying to snap the Dutchmen winning streak were Albany State, Dartmouth and Williams. The victory was noticeably a Pyrrhic one. Eight wrestlers entered the finals and only three emerged victorious. Joining Zullo· and Benedict for first place was Bruce Freedman, a sophomore from Brockport, N.Y. Capturing second places were: soph Mike Walker at ll8 lb., frosn Scott Media at 142 lb., frosh Tom Everett at lSO lb., senior Gary Durney at 158 lb., and frosh Greg Lyons at 190 lb. Steve Schutzer, a junior wrestling for the first time, was defeated in the first round, and one weight class (177 lb.) was forfeited. That was about a month ago. Today the team looks very different. Mike Walker has left the team,- forcing Mark Zullo to go down to 118 lb.; in what I would term \a monumental effort.\ Bruce Freeman has in turn gone down a weight class, wrestling now at 126. Sophomore Larry Dagostino, who wrestled at 142 last year, will wrestle at 134. Erratic Fred Lanes, a junior who wrestled in his fre$hman year, will fill the 142 lb. weight class. Freshmen Scott Media and Tom Everett will wrestle aJ 150 and 158 bracket. Everett came in 4th in the New York State Championship, and undoubtedly will be a great asset to the team. The same can be said of Media, who carne in 2nd in New York State Section l last year. At the 167 weight class veteran Gary Gurney will attempt to better his record, since it will be the last time that he will wrestle for Union. Dave Annis, a sophomore wrestling for the first time at Union will grapple at the 177 lb. weight class. Greg Lyons, a freshman • will •wrestle at 190. Lyons was- crowned Vermont State Champ in his junior year .in high school. Wrestling temporarily in the heavyweight division will be Bob ·Kong' Hesse, a dedicated senior athlete. He is replacing Benedict who was injured during a workout. Hesse has never wrestled in his life, but in the past week he has gained a basic knowledge of wrestling that will hopefully enable him to wrestle aga.inst more experienced grapplers. Alan Calbro, a wrestling star in his freshman year at 118 lbs., has also left the team, along with Pat Wardell, a top wrestler at the 177 lb. weight class. <;:'ontinued oll Page 7 ANN.UAL WIN'T'E'R SALE 0 II 8 Sui~$-· Sportcoats .. Outerwear plus other selecfed items 20% to 50% off DAVE'S ~quir~ ~f1op Downtown Schenectady 420 State St open Tuesday and Thursday 'til 9

similar Union -than final (13 (lO to add g and which part of tallied held of the 4-0 was fa~t that urn, joel Brian Glazer tie a junior freshman weight and ~t 150 came in State team. Media, York veteran to will be wrestle a the fjrst at the Lyons, at 190. .in in the be Bob j senior a never in the a basic will wrestle· star lbs., with the 7 - Vot 102, No. 22 founded at Union College in 1877 Tuesday, January 16~ 1973 20 cents Administration Members Judge Each Other by ANDY PEARCE - Students, Din.:ctor of evaluation concerns the Union College's first attempt Admissions, Director of St-udent objectivity and utility of the at administration evaluation, a~ Aid, Regi:strar; Vice Pre~ident of 4uestionnaires. On this point, organized by the Liaison and External Affairs, Comptroller, many professor:s and Governance .Committee, is in Director of Bminess and administrators have voiced operation this week. !'he Facilities Qperatiom, Director of specific opinions, running from evaluations. have been coming in Computer Services, and Director one extreme to the other. from. each participant in this - of Security and Safety. Edward Malloy, Dean of exp~nment to the desk. _ol One problem rai~ed from the Students feels that he cannot \rot.essor E.dward . J: ( ra.1g. principle of the 4ue~tionnaires i~ possibly 'evaluate others with the c.hau:man of the. Ltatson and whethe~ a broad per:spective can present ljUestionnaire. Martin ·Governance Co~:ruttce. be rcce1\ed as an end result. fhe Lichterman. Dean· of 1-'acult), Each admm1~ t.r at or and lett .:r accompanying t h t: stated that these \evaluations art: dep~rtment . chatrma~ _ h~s li\aluation form:s states tha·t each worthless although he feel:s that PROFESSOR EDWARD CRA !G P hoto by Jeff Weilberg recc1v~~ a bl~nk q~.:suonna.1:e per.son should \talk: formally or the prin~iple of evaluating the reque.stmg re~p?nses to sl;' Inlormally, w1th your administration is an excellent questiOns pertammg to one ol tlic departmental colleagues.\ H each He nder. h w he can A Wonderful d ' · ' fl' • one. WO S 0 a mmistratJve o ~~~rs, . to academic or administrative judgc members of departments evaluate each adm1~1strat1on department head were to forego with which he ha:s no constant head. The com~lcted lon~s arc consulting with his subordinates. contact. Dean Lichterman also collated by Professor Cra1g and t·he reports would not provide an d d · 1 th . . , · · expresse a es1re o see e by MARTY SHERMAN The Second Story Theater's performance of the Wizard of Oz ori Sunday was, unfortunately, their last. At a school where contagious -dis.eases provide most of the winter's entertainment, the Delfin production was a welcornc release. Although significantly different from the old reliable Judy Garland movie, this production managed to capture the audience just as well, i.f not better. Maybe it was because the actors were known; or maybe it was the outstanding costume and mask work; or maybe it was because the players played to the audience. I'm not really sure, hut no one left the theater immediately after the play was ov~. We all sat there for a second or two and thought. lt seemed as if the happy, almost childli-ke, epvironmcnt was too good to leave. This was Delfin's rirst attempt at direction and by ·an reports it was not easy. The play sulleted a one-month delay during .the recuperation of star Sharon Grollman. l\onetheless enthusiasm was q.uite evident at Sunday night's· performance. Dell}n opened the :show with a $ong, his voice reminiscent ol Tom Lehrer. For the rest ol the show he accompanied Phil Gtuppuso on the dulcimer. The music was extremely good and contributed well to the impression the players left as a whole. Gruppuso played the piano, using the keys and sometimes just pulling the strings. When he plays the kl;ys Phil is one of the finest musicia·ns around. There were several standout performances that are worthy ol~ mention here. Barbara PerloY, renowned mimick and pseudo- impressionist, was ·fantastic as the cowardly lion (she can wiggl~ better than B\,ut Lahr, you know). Sam King was typecast as Toto. He's about as shaggy ~~s any dog I've ever seen and he played the part to perfection. The aud-ience responded as W~ll tt> Sam as he responded to them. Bob Ditter was the Scarecrow. Ditter. a Union College alumnus, proved that a graduate can he stuffed without bci·ng st u!Ty. Penn Sheldon, the tin mah, was also tremendous and reacted wen to the audience's presence. Other notable performances were turned in by Sharon GroHman as Dorothy, Maria Slowac;ck; Mark Koblenl as the Guard. lJebbi Simmons, and Stanley Wizard the L1mson and Governance all-inclusive response It cannot t - - d h th' k th ·t C · d h \ r . d ,d · sys em revampe ; e - m s a (the Wizard himself} Kaminsky. From the ensemble, Pete Zabawsky was quite good. ommi~tee, an t en orwar ~ yet be known wheth~r those who answer the to Pres1de~t H~rold C.. Mart~n. subordinates were consulted m questionnaire should be well The questiOnnaires dealing With formulating the answers to the versed in the dealings of those the President are sent directly to questionnaires. being examined. the Chairman of the Board of Another question posed by the On these lines, Professor Craig You know, I just checked the cast list and it seems l'w complimented nearly everyone at least once. The show was that enjoyable. It seems to pr,ove what the scarecrow said to Dorothy: trustees. The Board of Tru:stces existence of. the administrati<!l! suggests that each administrator i!inotevaluated. ************ write up a J·ob description to The mem hers of the .· · - - · .. · T \II b b · fac_ i!itate the task . of filling out Administration to be examined here WI e. us. the ljUestionnaire. In this wav, · I d t--h- Pr 1.d, nt t h · transport;ltion available to all J me u · e e · es c · · · e promise can be better evaluated P t ( h th P 't' n · Union College students who \If you· go far enough, y.ou'rc ' bound to get somewhere, yon know.\ ro>os w en e OSI 10 IS with performance. P lan tl t \lled pr urn· bb· wish to participate in. the anti~ 1-·-. · ern · en Y 1 · · · es a J · Acting Provost Willard t · ) D 1· 1-· ult' war activities planned for · nex year • ean ° ac · .J·· Enteman stated that the Dean of Graduate Studies and Ina·uguration Day in S D f Washington, D.C. The cost of 4uestionnaires will be extremely 'pecial Programs, · ean ° useful to him in determining d C I a round-trip bus ticket will be Lou ... on .. · . . 0. 'w.ns /. !!!·~:h !!~p~:ssi~~ :;;e~A~ ~~;:~~~e~:~otiations in the next lea-ve from Union College at Professor Craig thinks that the B B b · around 2 a.m. Saturday, administration ~hould be ·. . ,u.z·z· . y· . . 0 m· . s January 20, and will arrive in analyzed, but not by the present Arlington, Virginia by method: \'In using these noontime. The Marc_h Against eva)uation 4ue:stionnaires, by JlOBERT SHUGOLL started with a couple of tunes 1 · · d · d' Death will proceed from persona opm1ons an preJU 1ces Loudon Wainwright Ill is a comical genius. That's what he showed the· Memorial Chapel audience on Friday night, although any true Wainwright 1 afficionado could tell you that we only viewed 'one side of the total performer. go.ofing on bars and religion and b · · d · h t\ 1 Arll ·ngton Nat 1 · 0 · nat Cemeter.y may e mterJecte mto t e ma then hit the audience with \Be A 1 · 1 Standing on stage, Loudon's short-cropped hair, oddly shaven face and Dr. Generosity T-shirt didn't match with the usual elaborate appearance of many mus1c1ans. For that matter neither did his music. Loudon limited the one.:hour set to his lighter side, embracing both frivolous experiences and seriou:s topics of , our times and transforming them into in&ane comedies. His brand of humor, which few mus1c1ans possess outside of mayhe Randy Newman, was directed at letting us in on his perception of life, and it worked. Audience laughter erupted not only at his themes but at individual phrases and . even -lone words, showing what a gifted artist he is. Loudon uses the wrong word,s at the right . times, and the· · ·resul:t ·: ~s. sensational - · ~;,-·, He looked p~iilfu,y wrecked during the set ~-n:4.; with his ridiculous facial · and roc a I grimacing, one could sense that Loudon. was certainly legitimatt:. The music is a direct rellection of the tnan. While on his latest albwn Loudon got into electric music and incllrded a six-piece · band, he was effec.:tive playing with only his own ac.:oustic guitar as accompanime;nt. Attention could dearly be focused where it belonged so much on his melodies or · insHumental talents but on his lyrics and vocal delivery. He shortly after noon. The_ bus results. lso, many peop e simp y Careful, There's A Baby In The d h h k 1 d will leave Washington around o not ave enoug now e ge House,\ a warning to parent:s · d h · ·rh h 7 p.m., and should arrive hack to JU ge ot ers. ese are t e that a little baby know:s more k f h. \ in sc·henectad_y abou_ t 2 a._m_ . wea . nesses o t e system. tnan one might expect. - p • c · ld 1·k There's another side to on Supday. Reservatiorts may roJessor hraJdg wo.u ., I e to be. nlad_e with M'rs. __ Marra ·.in see a met o simi ar to Loudon Wainwright Ill, his L' b k h\ 'd I the - s·tud_ ent A.·· ctivities__ O'f.fice~ · · me ac er' to un an I ea serious side. He has a large,· manner f 1 · \The repertoire of these songs, AU tit;ket~ ~uslb'e .paid~fuf-!n. 0 eva uatmn. ad:'.• im. ce·,·· rio .rese.'itVat. io. mr ·~nt . 4 uestionnaire should oe made personal retlections on sad :states ' ~ ~ \\ b., h · d l\k be taken withoul·p' ay· merrt.. etter, more mec amze , I C of affairs and beautiful poetic Linebacker.\ visions, but Loudon was not in Cbe.c~ may .btt llla~e. o~t to \T. h ···s-· b. ~ d c·\m 'tt Professor Craig acknowledges the mood to break the comic e .; ~ CMes.•.il. Y o .1111 ee T S ... Tb. · · ·.i., -... ;, All also that, unfortunately, no atmosphere. At one point he did o 1gn e ag. eernent. · ·· t b d b single person is ever with an Start Playl .ng \School Day~,\ a reservatwns mus e mil e y · ., A adminis-trator for an extended n ·on-coml··c song about h1\s )'outh 5 p.m. Wednesday. ny • amount of time; in Linebacker l 'n Delaware, but halted at the questions concerning the trip · d st evaluation, a student is with his end of his instrumental may be dJrecte to eve. . s· 11 393 s1·3· o· instructor for forty hours a term. introduction, he didn't pe man at - · · , · w w w w w w Most of these gentlemen 1ecl ¥¥-¥¥if.¥ T\T\T \T\T T that the 4uestionnaire:s should indeed-affect personal futures among the administration, whether through contract:s or dismissals. Dean Lichterman thinks that it is possible ·for a few dismissals to take place, but he refu:sed to cite examples. Dean Malloy believes that these questionnaires should not be used as a threat in dismissing an administrator but rather should be used to help -remed) hi:, deficiencies. To this end, he feel:-. the 4uestionnaires can be of great use. Professor Craig !eel:-. that the evaluations can pro\c to he a boon and \if somebody takes this evaluation seriously. then someone should he let go. Another profes:sor, who prefers to remain anonymou)>. ex pressed a 'great hope for the success ol the questionnaire .. II it will he trul) effective, he asserts, mal1) of the present administrators should be fired. Continued on Page 3

2 CONCORD/ENSIS, fuesda.1:. January 16. 1973 Evaluation One of the obvious deficiencies of the new Evaluation of Administration Officers is the lack of student participation. In some cases, as Dean Martin Lichterman has implied, students have more contact with various administrators than do those people presently completing the evaluation questionnaire and would be able to form a more accurate report on the ability and performance of those administrators who deal with student affairs. Next year, we hope that students are consulted, when necessary, in the evaluation of the administration. The Acting Provost, ~resident, and Board of Trustees should also treat the results of these questionnaires with due respect and utilize them for more than \suggestive\ or '\corrective\ purposes. If an administrator receives a series of poor evaluations, then that administrator's status w~uld be in jeopardy and the replacement of that administrator be taken under serious consideration. If these ev~luations ~lave any merit, then they must be, regarded as a sincere accounting oi an administrator's. performance, an integral part of the overall evaluation. arnr tc gsb pb Letters To the editor: After reading thc lettcr hy Ke11neth Lawrence Tylcr .of Hat\·ard University, which appeared in last week'~ Concordiensis, I felt moved to thank him on hehalf ol th~: Union communi•ty. I hat a man of Mr. Tyler's literary acumen shoJlld favor us with a fre~: sample of his work is a generou~ gesture. I\his is cspecially tru~: when one cons·idcrs that th~: author's reading audience wa:, only the \average Union student\ foF- W•hom, as Mr. rylcr nu.te~. thinking an.d talking arc \ob\iously incidental functions.\ Claimi.ng that a question as to \how (he) liked the food\ at Union prompted his essay, Mr. Tyler embarked on a series of hilarious ('?) ~me-liners ·about the West College Food Service. Five paragraphs into the masterpiece he dccid~d it was time for \a few more sedous comments\ and . there are two people checking Dog . ·s· ·of .. f c. a·.·.'mp··. .· ' . ·.·u··· .... s.. promptly blew it. He asks, \If meal coupons why on earth hasn't someone been smart by LOUIS S. SNITKOFI<' ' enough to realize that forming Union's dogs and dog owners, This would certainly solve the two lines into the dining room as an encore to making many of problem. but wasn't it just this would move things faster?\ the campus grass areas unfit for year that Union begarr a-ccepting Ho\Vever, that remark is a non walking (especially barefoot), arc dogs'! . sequitur (as you may have nqw working on the 2. Have obedience classes for guessed, l got someone fronl improvement of living conditions the ~ogs.. . . . Harvard to help me -write this) in the dormitories. Now, . one Smce It 18 not really their own since of the two people checking only needs step out of his room fa~ft that they haven't been meal coupons, one, in fact, is to be greeted by deposits of ~·dog tramed, maybe the dogs sh?ul.d ·doing nothing of the sort, but is stuff' which present themselves be taught wh.:n ~nd. where It IS ma~ing change for the people to the nose in hallways and proper to go. . fhen men. paymg cash for their meals. With lobbies throughout the college. women, and man's best friend present facilities the servers in the Sure, dogs are cute and it's can all .benefit from Union's high cafeteria could not serve any great to have one in your room academic ~tandards. , more people t~an can pass so everyone comes in to play J.RestrJct dogs to the womens through the one lmc anyway. So with it and hl:!ve their fingers co-o~(Bron~er House). much for Mr. Tyler's serious chewed and chase it around the With their fully automatic comments. The remainder of the hall and make it bark and, yes, 1 kitchen, including dishwasher. letter was devoted to more like dogs, but dammit. those who refrigerator, and separate, full~ puerile humor, care enough to have dogs should sized freezer, the girls must have Mr. Tyler's style aside, I would take the time to give them proper l~ads of free time ~fter dinner to question the veracity of some of attention. give a. do~ all _the tnne. love. and his remarks. Whi:Ie stating that There are enough hassles with a!tentwn .It might need. Whjl not he had never \seen so many living in Davidson - rooms arc make Prmce~s Palace a Puppy animals pushing. shoving, and heated to S5 ·degrees and Palace as well! otherwise being rude\ as on the dehydrated to zero per cent 4 • Restrict dogs to West West College cafeteria .line, humidity in the winter, lront College... . certainly heighte~ed his dramatic doors don't lock, resulting in the Where: until . th.is year, any effect, I don't think Mr. Tyler vandalization of a newly type of decoratiOn was a was being very lair. I took all my West College Library, a large room with a few books, is one of those rarely frequented places. on campus. It ·is acknowledged in the student handbook as a place \which is r~served at all times for study, reading, and writing,\ (p. 16). Unfortunately, due to a distinct lack of ligbtlng in the library (there is one lamp in the entire n:>om), participation in any of the three suggested a<;:tivitics has become .difficult. · Several requests for more J.ightiJ:Jg have been made to Sheila Beam, Assistant Dean of Students. Her ·rc,spo,nse flas be(,!n that maintenance rcJuscs to rut in any more lamps since they ha \ e all been stolen. Also, due to the thievery. the door to .the library is kept. locked, and the key rnust be obtained fmm an R.A. lt is inconv_enient to const!:lntly have ·lamps Stolen, but it is :CYCH more inconvenient to study without light. If m a i ntertance i:s worried 'about having the lamps remov:ed, how about installing 1 an o·verhead fixture'! There is a'lrcady a closed outlet in the ceiling which could be opened. If this suggestion is not palatable, some lights could be put in the ceiling, and a wire could be run down to an alread}' · existing outlet on ·the f1oor. fhis would eliminate the expense . of reopening a closed eutlet. Also, if lamps wer.e .cumbersome enough, the chances .are that they wotfld not be removed. No one is denying the existence of thievery on campus, and it must be conceded that it i~ necessary for the library to be thos.e people who hate or fear them. Every living creaHtre has the inherent right to be free, dogs and dog~hatcrs alike. I. would also like to kno\\ through what demm;ratic process this Jaw was initiated. Who gave Dean Malloy the right to establish a dog catcher position'! ·sounds to me like Union Colk.ge is once a:gai n living l!lp to its gn:at tradition; waste every dollar that you can; get your hands mt, Fina:Jiy, who is this iUusttk)Us perso·n, the dog C<ltchcr'! Mt. ~nd Mrs, WiU.am B. Cook.'73 Oiie '73 P.S. Up .against the wall, dog catcher. * * * * De1lr Editor.~ I am a s.tudent who would like ~o get involved in theatre here .a:t Union. I have heard that the .-Mountebanks will he doing ;~ comedy called \MJ:Jonchildren\ this term, and I was wondering if tryouts were going to l;>e held on Tuesday and Wednesday; Janu&ry 23 ancl 24, and is there reaUy a sign-up sheet, and . a script in the Green Roqrn .of Nott Mernorial, and should ·I try out even though I · have Ito experience? Chl.lt Arttmr * * * * To tlle editor: The Schenectady Protect Your Environment Club .(PYE) 'is looking for new members, with er without new< ideas, at its regular Wednesday meeting at 7:30 in the basement .of the infirmary. Please come. At the last meeting volunteered to be the head of recycling. We need much mote help if we are going to continue paper-recyc'ling this term. If you can be a site captain (in\lolving a cardboard box and ~bout 15 minutes a week bundling), please contact . me at 370-5988, or Paul Marean at 370- · . 4977. The first collection will be on Friday, Jan. 19. We need your help. * * Sincerely, 'f om .Sthnson. * * Outings. acquired ping pong table, there is welcomed change. meals at West C::ollege last year, nothing at all in the lobby, not and quite a few this year, and even heat - to make it a dog * * * * can't recall any such mob house without actually ·having A limited number of attitude. As far as the Saga food feces on the floors. hardbound copies of Freshman quality, admittedly it's college Several solutions are obviously Record ' 7 6 are still available. Ali cafeteria food. Some nights arc possible. Some of these arc those interested in purchasing a worse than others, but overall it ~!lumerated and discussed below. copy can see Mrs. Marra in the compares favorably with food Student Activities Office. The I' t t f 1 1. Outlaw all dogs from the ve ea en a any o severa dormitories. hardbound copies arc $4.oo: colleges. Curiously (I guess it's le«;:ked <;onstantly, else all the furniture would disappcear. However, it can also be assumed that, for the most part, student~ who use the library as.-a study area would not temove the tights or furniture since they would only be inconveniencing th!'!mselves. If each student made _an effort to lock the door after he left, much of the thievery could be prevented. It is of' course inconvenient to find· an R.A. every time you want to study, especially if you get the urge at 3 a.m., when everyone is asleep. But in this case, the efforts would be worthwhile. Physically, the li 6i:~ry is a very comfortable room ·in which to study. It contains several easy chairs, couches, and tables. While not in the best conditions, (broken springs and stuffing peek out from the bottom of the couches), the furniture IS sufficient. Since there arc no lounges in West College, l;lll entertaining is therefore done in the rooms and many students find themselVes without a quiet place to work. For them, the West College Library (with a few more I_ights) would be very convenient. With the beginning of a new term and with high hopes fo.t a few blizzards, the Union Outing Club has succumbed to the ski- bug and will offer instruction in the sports of Nordic ski-touring, snowshoeing, winter camping, and caving during the coming months. * * * * the \animal\ in me), it never CONCORDIENSIS founded at Union College in 1877 Editor-in-Chief ........................ George Bain News Editor ..... : ....................... Tim Cain Managing Editors .................... Rita Morandi Dave·Strorn Features Editor .......................... AI Reisch Sports Editor .............. : ...... Bruce Batchelder Photo Editors ............ , : ............. Les Kernan· Jeff Weilburg Business Manager ................. Michael J. Hurley National Advertising .................. Stephen :Kelly Subscriptions ..................... · .. Mike .'Bernstein Contributing Editors ............... Peter Bicketmari Office Staff lllyria Puharich Doug Carpenter · Louis S. Snitkoff Gary Lovett Phil Alcabes Bill West . oncor 1eti's1s 1~ pu Hilwd ~~l·i·l l11esda~ and Tid.a~ \hl•'irig til~ ,dl!)ol 1 ~ar t:~l'l'PI during cx,tmin<llion <tnd \\at ion ptni<td' h~ thl· Mlld~nt hod' nl l·; 1 ;,, 11 ( ollt:!!~. S~hc1kctad~. :\.Y. '\<llional adlt:rti,in!! '''pr,·,~nlatil.:: :-\ational l' .. dt~cuoonal. Aa.'~rtising Sen ice. Inc. Cnllcgc· l'uhli,fl,•rs i{rprc•si:lllati\.~. ~allonul .hlucat•nnal Ad\c·nisiil!! St:r\ ie,•. lne .. \'. 't .( ·. hlitnrial Oific·c. Old (.'ym. ltnwn Cnlkgc. l'uhlkatiPil (•)ffic·e. I ht• .lt•\\ish \\'nrld l'uolicati 1 m:.. Til State St.rcct. Sch~nectad~. :-\. Y. i ~J07. J4{-.-~.l56. !.'tltc•red 111 the Scht'tlce.t<tdl post· olltct•as Sceond Class Mail \1utkr.Suhsc 1 :iptiun.}0 cenha c<liJ~.SX a,,.,; .. ddr1crcd un~\\hcr,•rn Hie Umtcd State'' · . ' I>eadlin~ for all cop~. 11hich mt\t h,· t~pcd and dnllhk·spae,·d. is 7 p.m. <lll M.on.da} ~tild lhur'sda~ at the Concord) uTfi,·c. uhn1c Old ChapeL Office telephone numhcr is .170-M 55. hut tht• oiTicc• i:. nnll 111 u\· <Hl \londa1 and I hursday nighb. 1-'or all t•dit<Wial nwttl·rs. call thl' t•d.tiltr•lll·dltd at .NJ·. 1640: lor inlormatron call Slltdt•nt Aeti11lic' Oitt<:t'ut J70c(;lfK occured to me after ;my of these visits . to lambaste my host college's food service in their school paper. I must confess that unfortunately, I ha~;cn't had the pleasure of dining at Harvard. The two times I've visited. a friend there he was most emphatic that we take our meals at local restaurants instead of the college cafeteria. Despite his verbal run-off Mr. Tyler did indeed do Union College _a favor. If any pros·pective candidates show up at Union's Admissions Office displaying 'a gastronomjc monomania, I'm sure they will now be given ditection!l to Harvard. * To the editor: Sincerely, · How;ud Eisenson Union College * * * You're finally ready to study. After chasing around trying to find an R.A. to give you the key to the room, you unlocked the <loor and went back upstairs to veturn the key and get your hooks. You eventually got settled, only to re<ilit.e that them wasn't enough light in the l'oom to be able .to read coinfortably, . So you went back upstairs and, . .much to your roommate\ · .an'n.oyancc, took the lamp. An hour after you had decided to get some work done. you finally began your C\enihg of f!tudv in West College Libi'ar}. - Now that winter is really here and the walk to Shaffer Library has suddenly become much longer, the West College Library is expected to become a more popular place to study. With some c.ooper.ation from· maintenance and students, a. quiet place, conducive to \study readjng, and writing\ c·ould be created. * * * * To the editor: Jt~dy Dein In a sense, you arc right about the dog .problem; a dog catcher system is ridiculou~. But it is much more than that. It is unjust, oppressive and offensive. The problem with the dogs arc .~<Q!<.Q> --FOR LIQUOR AND WINE Try § ·Jake i Lipstein's ~. 464 State.S. treet § S. FR4-1888 f ~t.Q>t.Q><Q>t.Q>t.Q><Q>0hr.Q><.0<.0 Trips will run each weekend, and are open to aU\ •Union students without charge. A brief meeting is held, each Wednesday prior to an outing, in Fox Lounge at 4:30 p.m. to discuss details and to outfit equipment, which the club supplies. Skis, snowshoes, tents, sleeping bags, and other gear is also available for loan to students during the week and on open weekends. Tentative plans call for the viewing of severaJ Audubon and outdoor films later this term. Interested students may contact eithG£ Steve l-layashi (393-0(>94), Ric Wellman {346-9344 ), or Mrs. ; ' Marra . in Student Activities ' ' Office. PROCTOR'S Wff.~~~· STATE ST .. SCHENECTADY · lll1f~=~=::;~:i:;:;:;§~~?:;:::;~:;~:;:;:;:~;:i::~;;~::;:;:;;;:;:::~;:1¥.ii! •. ::::;: Jan. 17-Jan. 25 ~::;: ]~WOODSTOCKiti!l~ il:::::::::::::::::::::m:::::::;:§::::::::::~:;::::::::::::=~:::::::::;:iJii COMING I Jan. 23 8 Feb. 8 Walt Di.mey's Clas.\:ic Sword in the Stone and Tile Silvtir l<ox and Mr. Davenport

or fear has dogs kno\\ proces~ gave to gn.:at ar th:at tll1, '73 dog like ~:t . the a if on sday; thcr.e a Nott out rt.o Your ·is with its at the of more and week at 370- . ' ill be your new or a ski- in ring, ping, end, brief Fox cuss . the the and tact ' . . Students inter.ested in applying for the position of Assistant Orientation Chair'man may pick up app'lications through January I9t'h in the Dean of Students' Office, Old Gym HalL Deadline Jor their return is. tht.: 22nd of this month. Two students will be selected 10r this pbsitiqn, and, as members of the Orientation Committee, will a·ssist in planning and executing the program for both transfer students and the Class of '77. The tdl<:>wing ye&r, t:he • Assistant Chai'nnen will d:ireet orientation tor the Class of '7!). · I imc, energy, and inte[est are the only requisites for the positions, optm H> both Uniorr men and women. Orientatio.n cpunselor applications wi,H be available late next te.i:m. MGrei Information may be obtained by contacting the Dean of Students' Office. * * * * Films on Canipus Yojimbo: A brilliant transposition of a Western film cliche to the time of the samurai. The filmmaker is Ach ira K uro!)awa,. Japan's most highly acclaimed director. Yojimb0', an unemployed samurai, brings peace to a troubled town by obliterating the \bad guys\ in a series .of clever tactical maneuvers ( 1961). Wednesday, January 17. S.S. 016. 2:30 p.m. Friday, January 19. 3:(:)0 and 8:00p.m. Alice in Wonderland: Not to be mistaken for Walt Disney's version, this ·(ilm was made in 1933 and stars most of the major comedy actors of the period, including W.C. Fields as. Humpty Dumpty, Cary Grant as the Mock· Tortoise, and Gary Cooper as thf'! White Knight. Wednesday, January 17. Film Haps. 7:00 and 9:00 p.m. SS 016. Admission $1.00. Shaft: -Slick and super-cool melodrama about a black James Bond against' the Mafia, starring Richard Rountree and written by Ernest (The French Connection) Tidyman. Isaac Hayes's tricky score won an Oscar. Saturday and Sunday, January 20 ang 21. Film Haps. 7:00, 9:00, and II. :00. SS 016. Admission $1.00. 'Sergman Film To 'Se Annountled: Monday, hnuary 22. SS 016. 2:30. Lab l'ec course. Urgently Needed! Married couples to babysit part/full time. Permanent live in situations available for this semester. Work as much as you want. . Call ··University Family Services Inc. (Agency) 456 .. 0998 CONCORDIENSIS. Tuesday, January 16. /973 _BLITHER. Congresswoman Shirley Chisholm, the first Black womam to run for the office of President of the United States, will be ,the first speak~r of Schenectady County Community. CoHege\ ''Women in Leadership\ series on Sunday, January 21. The lectun; at ~ p.nl:,. at l.U.E. Hal'! on Erie Blvd., is free and open to the public. Mrs. Chisholm entered the House of Representatives as a freshn1an to the 91 st Congre~s representing a portion of I\c\\ Y erk ·City.. She serves on the Select Education, Genera[ Education, and Agricultural Labor SubcommiHees. She is also Chairman of tlw Military Affairs Committee of the Congressional Black Caucus. When running for Cengrcss, she cai)lpaigned under the slogan \U nbought and Unb.ossed,\ the title of her published autobiography. Her soon-to-be~ published second hook, The Chish()bn Trail in '72, will tell the stpry of the pre-campaign and campaign, usi.n.g human anecdotes to portray the varied emotions of .her campaign. * * * * Mr. David Ben Daniel, former chairman of thf'! Human Rights Commission, will speak on \Use.s of Power in the Schenectady Government,\ on January 19, 1973 at 8 p.m. at the First United Methodist Church at 603 State Street. Anyone interested IS invited to attend. For more information call 374-4403. The Carver Community Center, located at 700 Craig Street, Schenectady. :is in need of volunteer tutors to assist young people in grade ~chool and high school (junior high included) with their academic problems. The tutoring program now has .all tutors meeting with the students during the aJter-school hours, with the majority of the sessions !:>ei.ng held in early evening. We arc attempting to plac<: some tutors in the schools during the day to work with the students during their free ti·rnc ami study hall periods. Those tutors working with a grade school or junior high school student generally focus on remed:ial skills in reading and math. Most of the high school: students have a more specific problem, such as hiology or intermediate algebra. H you- are intercstecl in this program, conl:ac.t 'Robert McAndrews at the Center. The number is ·374-g456. Or call Dave ·Stevenson at 372~0640. * * * * Any. meditators o,eeding checking please call Jeff, at 370~ 5855, or Alan, at 370-4302, for an appointment. .* * * * Applications for Resident Adviser may be picked up at the Residence Program. OfCice in Old Gym Hall. The deadline [()r return to the Residence Office is January 19. ln order to be considered ler a Resident Adviser position. a student I must have a strong interest in v,orking with others and be willing to contribute to the position. 2 should ha\e a 2.5 average. 3 should plan on being on campus for all three terms. 4 should not hold a job or plan en taking evening covrs'es which would require being awa) from the floor during evening hours. 5 must be av;iilab:le some weekends for dormitory duty. There will be openings for men and women. * *• * * Any students interested in assisting with the Inter-Nation Simulation which will take place on the week-end of Februaty 16, l7 and 18, should contact Prof. Norman Wal bek in the Humanities Building 9r Howard Stone at 346-4691. * * * * Loudon CloWns Continued from P-ge 1 really feel like doing it. Instead he burst into \B Side\ and \Home Team Crow€~,\ tw·o hilarious numbers from his latest Columbia release, Album III. In the former he describes the life or not only joined Loudon but did a few tunes by himself. Gerdes isn't in a class with Wainwright, hut his str.ange comic approach fit the scene perfectly. * * * * a bee, The overa'll response to the second scheduled performer. Buzzy Linhart, was pretty bleak. Surprisingly, the audience didn't frea.k out on Buzzy's rocking, dance-type music, but Linhart wasn't too impressive. His vocals were · a bit scratchy and bothersome, his guitar playing listless, and the whole sound just didn't have the impact that his records have. Then again, Loudon Wainwright II I is a tough act to follow. ''The Professor as Scholar\ . Unlike the .vkunk I do not lecture,discussion .scheduled for smell. this c01ping Wednesday, Jan. l7 But I have a thinK and it sting.\ has been cancelt;d. It has been likr; hell. rescheduled for this coming A~ heroes go, J'm wzsung. Monday, Jan. 22 at 7:30 p.m. in But step on me and you'll get Hale House Student Lounge. stunK. Professor Ludwig from the Loudon followed by bringing Philosophy Department an<:!. on two surpnse .guests, his wife Professor Hartwig from the -Kate, who supplied backup Political Science Department will vocals, and George Gerdes, who discuss their research. * * * * JUNIORS: Important meeting for all those interested in the allied . health professions and those planning to ~ake the . Medical Colleg.e Admissions lest. Thursday,January 18; Humanities 115at7:00p.m. * * * * Dance students and others: Modern Dance performance: St. Agne:> School, Friday, Jan. 19, 8:30 p.m. Choreography by Mary Jane Dike; dancers Helga Prichard, Pat Castelli, technique teachers at Union this year plus Sam Weems of Union Modern Dance Workshop. Cars will be leaving Art~. Bu~lding at 7:30p.m. · tevrs Administration · I Initiative in proposing ContinuedfromPage 1 · solutions to problems: On the efficacy of the It Knowledge of job and evaluations, an interesting efficiency of administrative dichotomy of opm10ns was operation: brought up~ Dean Lichterman, 1 n. Ability to prepare useful speaking freely. confessed that reports and relevant data: the administrators arc _i~. a much . 1 v. Rapport and fairness in more vul~erable pos1tion than dealing with the c 0 lle ge any faculty member becau~e the~' community: can not have the secu~lty ol V. Accessibility and receptivity tenure. H~ feels that With. the to suggestions from others: results ot the evaluatiOns, VI. Other observations and administnH.o_rs are ~owp~t into a comments on administrativ~.: further .pesrtwn ol lfisecunty. performance or personal qualjt.ics: On the other hand, Prolessor · Craig feels that, for all intents • • e • • and purposes, the administration • enjoys a tenure system unto· WiUJC PROGRAM NOTES itself. He cannot remember the Tuesday 9-10 p.m.: WRUC - last time that an administrator presents Bob Bernhardt was relieved of duty. This is an Wednesday 9-10 p.m.: New injustice which he feels can be Album Preview Hour; Joe 3 Union 1873·1948 by FRANCESCO .25 years ago ..... January 16, 1·948 - The Christma~ vacation is coming to an end. 50 years ago - January 12, 1923 - ··concordiensis Queries Campus on Interfraternity Friendship.\ A numht:r ol students were asked for their views on the general suhject of interfraternity friendship. Here arc two of those opinions: \Lack of cooperation and friendship among our fraternities is doubtless a drag on the progress of the College.\ \Union is the mother of Fraternities and one of her proudest boasts is in her interfraternity spirit.\ January 12, 1923 \Commissioner Lauds Union Students as Efficient Laborers.\ Walter G. Robinson, Commissioner of Public Works in the city of Schenectady stated that Union Cot.Jege students are the best street cleaners he's ever had. 75 years ago ~ January 7, 1898 · - An editorial in Concordiensis: \With this week we enter upon the duties of a new term and a new year. It is in the Winter term that the most effective college work is done and it is probable that there will be a great deal of health practicum work done by the students.\ January 7, 1898 - \Wallace Bruce's lecture on Robert Burns.\ Commenting about the great Scottish poet, Robert Burns, Wallace Bruce stated: \At the time when Voltaire's heretical doctrine threatened to invade England, Burns· showed· ·his strength and character combating it to the end.\ January 15, 1898 - From an editorial of Concord.iensls: \Much comment has been caused by the assertion of President Harper- of Chicago University that the poor quality of food funi.ished by Chicago boarding houses has brought about the death of several students. Although the statement seems sensational there must be some truth in it.\ 100 years ago - January 2, 1873 - From the Schenectady Reflector: \Prof. Tayler Lewis, LL.D., of Union College is busy correcting the proof-sheets of his translation and annotations of L:_tnge's Commentary on Job. Scholarly notes on Genesis and Ecclesiastes and his metrical version of Ecclesiastes have received the highest commendation of scholars.\ LeVfS • Dave's· Mens Shop 453 State St. (downtown Schenectady) Dave's\ Mens Shop 453 State St. (downtown Schenectady) rectified by the evaluations. Cocker; Bette Midler - \The It~~••••••••••• · Plans do not call for the results Divine Miss M\; Don McLean N. E w· E s·T of the questionnaires to be made Thursday 10•12 p.m.: Smokey .· public at this time. Joe's Cafe (tw.o ho4rs of gold by . . . A sample·\Evaluation Form of request) Lu·· .NC·.·H. Administrative Officers:\ LUIGI.'S ,. RESTAURANT SPECIALIZING IN Italian - American Food 1 125. BARRETT ST. SCHENECTADY Dlb-97 44 EnJoy Sizzling Steaks and Chop.\· Visit Our 0Jcktail Bar . LOWES'P LIQUOR AND WINE PRICES INN. Y. STATE at M·offet' s Liquor Store Corner of Van V.ranken Avenue Get Your Chilled Wines Earlyfor Wednesday's Game- I Instructions: Please use both ••--· ... ••- .. •~-••-,..••. _....,..~ sides of this form in commenting For the best hot dogs on the .performance of the • administrative officer in . , and sauce m town. LeVfS II h M•F 8 a.m.-2 a.m. question. If in any, or a , ol t c • -4 · Weekends 8 a.m. a.m. categories listed the knowledge or you and your colleagues is insufficient for an inforn1t:d evaluatioh, simply write '\No comment. •· Dave's\ Mens Shop 453 State St. (downtown Schenectady) 715 Albany St. 346-9424 ················~==~~~~=~~~~=====~~ : JAY :· • • • ·, I ·Billiard : 1 ·Lounge ·: . . . . I 1.67 Jay St. • a -· RELAX - ,. • • • PLAY POOL • • • • DaUy 10-10 p.m. • • Sunday 2-8 p.m. . I !. •••••••••••••• BOU·LEV ARD BOWL · 1315 Erie Blvd. 40 AMF BOWLING LANES 374-4171 Bow/for Health

4 Tuesday. Janum:r ln. 1973 Varsity Hoop Preps For Wesleyan and Amherst After seven days off to savor the 60-55 upset of the University of Rochester, the ,.Union College basketball team plays twice at home this week, hosting Amherst Wed; (17th) and Wes·leyan Sat. (20th) in 8 p.m. games in Memorial Field House. The Dutchmen, now 4-3, featured a sticky pressing defense and some accurate late game free throw shooting in the win over Rochester. Union played the t-;amc without junior Luke Dillon who had been a starting guard. Dillon suffered a knee injury in practice an<;l did not suit up for the game. He will also sit out both games this week. Starting in his place against Rochester was sophomore Kevin Crawford with freshman John Denio also seeing considerable action. The remainder of the Union starting line-up is ~the 6-3 senior frontcourt of tri-captains Tom Bacher ( 14.2 ppg) Mike Doyle ( 14.6) and Geoff Walker· ( 10.1) with 6-2 junior Chuck Abba (10.3) at the other guar.d. Amherst (4-3 with AIC Sat. 13th) is led by 6-3 guard Bob LeVigne (18 ppg) and 6-5 forward Glenn Farrell (I 9 ppg). Team captain Chris Petrides, 5- ll, teams with LeVigne in the backcourt and is averaging 10 points a game while 6-7 Dave Margulies has a 12 point and 13 rebound average. The fifth starting spot is shared by 6-3 junior Reece Couc-h and 6-1 soph C.C. Smalls. Wesleyan has a superh individual performer in 6-4 senior forward Brad Rogers who Defense.\ as demonstrated hy Garnel tri-captain Tom Bacher in the Rochester game. Union·s- next challen!fe is the Lord Jeffs ji·om Am-herst, Wednesday at 8 p.m. 'photo by Bill Erichsen is less than 150 points !rom becoming the Cardinals' first J ,000 career points scorer. H c is also the 'team's leading rebounder with 17 a game. Guards Steve Burton, a 5-11 junior and Dick Fairbrotha, a 6- 0 junior, are also double figure scorers while 6-5 senior Jim Raymond starts at center and 6-3 senior Dave Bohn teams with Rogers at forward. Raymond, the Wesleyan center, is the brother of Jon Raymond, the starting center on the Union freshman team that will play a 6 p.m. preliminary game gainst the Cardinal !rush. The first year Dutchmen, now 4- 0, will also host the Arnhe1:st freshmen in the p.reliminary game Wed. Dutchmen Grapplers Drop Two To CG A, Williams by FRANCESCO ISGRO On Saturday the Union College wrestling team dropped its two first dual meets of the season. Spoiling Union's debut were host Williams College and powerful Coast Guard Academy. Williams College rallied from a 24-15 deficit, with victories in the last three matches, to surprise the Garnet 27-24. CGA, taking the last three bouts, nipped Union 22- 19. In a prelimrnary match CGA toppled Williams 27-9. Team captain Mark Zullo and teammate Bruce Freeman both pinned their respective opponents for a combined effort of 24 team points. Freeman had the fastest pin for the Dutchmen in 2:24. Together they scored more than half of the teams total offensive output.. Senior Gary Gurney was the third grappler to win both matches. He notched a 6-2 decision against CGA. and pinned his opponent I rom Williams in 3:30. Freshman l\om Everett wrestling in the 150 lb. weight class tied his bout against CGA. and pinned the Williams wrestler in 7:06. In the 142 lb. division, Fred Lanes started his losing streak hy dropping both matches. one hy a pin. Scott Media aho lost his match against Parker of CGA. Jell White, also grappling in the · J5g lb. weight class, dropped u close 4-2 decision against Williams. Sophomore lJa\ e Annis had a ·7-6 lead on his opponent from Williams \\hen. in the last few seconds. he \\as unable to keep his ad\crsar) from escaping. fhc hout was tied at 7-7. In his match against CGA. Annis was hlankcd 5-0. \Baptism and Funeral\ Greg Lyons, a freshman, was well baptized into college wrestling. On his first match he met Cappacci of CGA. His highly touted foe had won the Ne'\\- 'Engla\'hd Freshman Wrestling Championship at 190 lb. a year earlier. He dropped the match on a 8-4 decision. He also lost a rather close match against Tolles of Williams IJ-10. loiies had decisioned Cappacii in the preliminary match. Bob Hesse, the dedicated senior athlete, that out of the goodness of his heart decided to replace injured Benedict found himselL on his back twice. For those of you who are not familiar with the sport of wrestling, let it be known, that you must have a hell of a lot of courage to step on a wrestling mat for the first time. For Hesse. not only it wa~ his first - appearance on the mat, but abo it was the first time he had ever tried to grapple. Maybe- it \\ill also he the last time that ~c wil'l sec \Kong\ wrestle. \Toothless Dago\ Larry Dagostino, a product of Mont Pleasant H.S. in Sch'dy. had looked anxiously toward this wrestling season. On Saturday afternoon his expectations vanished. Grappling against Coast Guard. he dropped a J-0 decision, and in the process alsH dropped his front tooth. J\:o one kne\\- what had happtmed when the referee stopped the match. except IJag who ealtnly hent down and picked up hi> one-inch long front tooth from the middle of the mat. Huroically he continued to wrcstk. Alter the match was over he was rushed to the hospital where the doctor stuck the tooth back where it came from. Asked yesterday whether he would be able to wrestle at all for the rest of the season, he replied: \I don't think so, unless the tooth falls hack t ,. I 00. Coach Everling was asked how he felt about those two rather close losses. \Well we had three opportumtles to beat CGA. Dagostino would have won the match had not his opponent knocked his tooth out The two ties in the 150 lb. and the I 77 lb. weight class, should have gone our way, especially Everett's match. Against Williams we had to forfeit Dagostino's weight class, .and that really killed m.'' This Wednesday the Garnet grapplers will host t<mgh Potsdam at 4:00 p.m. in the Alumni Gym. Asked as to the chances of defeating fheir visitor. Everling llatly replied: '\Not. too good.'' He also added that' \It\ going to he a long season. and we're going :to work hard at it.\ Heavyweight champ Howie Benedict is still injured hut w1ll wrestle January 24, if his \victory\ is needed. RESEARCH MATERIALS All Topics Send for your descriptive, up.to·date, . 128-page, mail order catalog of 2,300 quality research papers. Enclose $1.00 to cover postage a\d handling. RESEARCH UNLIMITED 519 GLENROCK AVE., SUITE 203 LOS ANGELES, CALIF. 90024 (213) 477;8474 • 477-5493 \Wf! need a local salesman\ Mermen Set To . - Open · V s. State . by PJ . The Garnet Varsity swim squad opens its season this Wednesday, facing the Great Danes .of Albany State. The Union Mermen, cGached by Bob McMurray, were 2-8 last season. In his four~h year here at Union, Coach McMurray and his squad have se~n stiff competition - ~ffered \-?Y t~ams from Hobart, Norwich, and Rochester. Wtth the mclusmn of several new schools on the schedule, the 1.2-man Garnet team is looking forward to a winni:ng season. Swimming eilters its 52nd year at Union, with a record of 186 won, 197 lost, and 3 tied. High liopes lie with the many faces returning agai.n this season. Senior Tom Hough Will again pace the freestyle events, while Sr. Alex Bodenstab will return as top point scorer in the breaststroke. B.ruce Goldberg, also a senior, will cover the fly. Sophomores Bruce Eggleston and Tom Burbank will cement wins in free and individual medley events respectively, along with senior freestyler Mark Shulman. Returning divers Bob Field, top point scorer, and Mark Foster will be joined by freshman John Dowlir.1g. New faces this season will be those of Bruce Alspach and Phil Mueller, both Sophomore frcestylers, while Tom Richardson will compete in the individual medley an<;i backstroke events: · The meeting Wednesday with Albany wiH be a first. The Danes have a fairly strong team. With U nion~s optimism and spirit, it should be art exciting meet. Action starts at 3:30 p.m. in Union's Foote Pool. The schedule is as follows: Jar.1. 17 ALBANY STATE Feb. March 24 R.P.l. . 27 KINGS POINT 31 at Trinity 2 at Hobart 10 at Norwich 16 KING'S COLLEGE 17 at Rochester 24 HAMILTON 3 at Canisius College N. Y.S. Championships 3:30p.m. 3:30p.m. l :3,0r p.m. 3:00p.m. 3:00p.m. 2:30p.m .. 4:00p.m. 2:30p.m. 1:00 p.m. Garnet Spikers Gain Easy Split by ALISON SLOAT It was a sad Garnet track team that came home from Williams College Saturday evening. Despite several spirited efforts, the Dutchmen were outscored by the Ephmen by 19 points, leaving Union second ip the triangular scoring, 68-49-9. Bamilton's only decent showing was in the 1000 yd. run. Captain Tim McCabe had a good day winning the 600 yd run in 1:15.2 and then returning to anchor the mile relay with a 50.0 sec. leg. The mile relay team of David White, Freddie Pressley, Dave Ricks and McCabe turned in an impressive 3:29.9, one of the fastest times by the Dutchmen in two years. Sophomore Bill Mowery showed his strength by not only winning the shot put hut by then splitting open the 35 lh. weight on a practice throw. Bill Clayton \floated\ over 13' to capture first place in the pole - - .,_ - vault while Dave Ricks vaulted 12' 6\ to take second. Pete Mertz, a sophomore from Williams, repeated his victory of last year in the high jump with a leap of 6' 2\. Senior Stan Jackson and sophomore John DeStefano gave Union seoond and fourth, respectively. Mertz then returned to long jump 21' 4W' and carry off another first place. . Later Williams nearly swept the distance events witt{' Jay Haug doubling to win both the mile and.the two mile. Freshman Milt Herring sprinted to a 6.5 second place in the dash. In the hurdles, Dick Kern turned in a time of S.2. a pe'rsonal best, but second to Reed of Williams' 7.8. winr;ing time. Union will warm up against Mohawk Valley Community College on Tuesday night, Jan. 16, before travelling to Ithaca on Saturday ·to compete in· !·he Cornell Invitational. -· r ) ') } Now open 7 days/ week I l } The Brothers III under \Union\ management j l MEALS-. Ii a.m.-12 NiidnightJ Assorted Variety Of Hot & Cold Sandwich~s . At College Prices . l WINE AND , 1 CHEESE 1679 VanVranken Ave • 374-5679 TJIVRS. 2 b} k NWHT OC S Up EXCELLENT DARK BEER ON TAP - - - ' I I I • • I • I I I I ·. t Th Dr. English Ainhers Urlion through Phi Bel Prograi sessiom highlii present: 016, Tt P.M. Reali recogni Studie-s cenduc wit:h th and I Wedne: foHowi intervie Marx's The Marx's night \Te c·I Humar revised the Stt for thi the tall to tt:c but Dt he rea fhe rel Science develo1 presen1 and a1 can be a wid< Marx about. resista1 himsel suppo metho1 Scienc, article - Tht: Metho finds i me tho that t the UTI consid within time. ~ an becau! C;lnno· Social nature Scienc witnes betwec and ( recogr crucia

founded at Union College in 1877 V Ql.. l02, No. 23 Friday, January 19, 1973 20 cents Humanities And The Social Sciences Tenure Changes Under Faculty Consideration· .by AL REISCll Dr. Leo Marx, professor of English and American Stuqies at Amherst College, will visit the Union camp.us next M<;lnday through Wednesday as pfut of the · Phi Beta Kappa· Visiting Scholar· Program. This visit will include sessions in classes and be highlighted by a fo.Fmal' presentation in Social Sciences 016, Tuesday, January 23 at 8:00 P.M. Realizing that Dr. Marx is a recognized leader in the American Studies field, this I.le)'{spaper conducte<;l a telephone interview wit:h the twice Guggenheim fellow and Fulbright lecturer on Wednesday, January 17. The following is a ·.summary .of this interview and ·if several of Dr.. Marx's publications .. The scheduled topic for . Dr. Marx's presentation Tuesday night was to have been \Tec·hnology a•nd t:h-e Humanities,\ but he h&S since revised this to \Technology and the Study of Man.\The rationale for this is fasc..inating. OriginallY., the talk was to focus on resistance to tl!chnological totalitarianism, but Dr. Ma-rx decided that· what he really wants to talk about is rhe responsibility ''of the Sociai Sciences and Humanities in developing ways of resisting the present drift toward totalitarian and authoritative politics.\ One can be sure that this will open up a wid~ range of topics, for Dr. Marx is also v•ry concerned ahout the effects. of method in this resistance as he. presently finds himself in the position of supporting the unscientific method of inquiry in the Social Sciences and has published an article entitled \American Studies - The Defense of an Unscientific Method.\ When asked why he finds it necessary to defend this method of inquiry. he responded that those scholars that employ the unscientific method are being considered second-class citizens within their disciplines at this time. This, in Dr. MarX's view, is an unfortunate occurrence because the scientific method cannot be applied to the study of Social Science due to the very nature of the several Social Science disciplines. Anyone who witnessed the recent debate between Professors Byron Nichols and Charles Gati will readily recognize just how timely and cru~ial this issue truly is, if one is desirous of realizing \answers\ to the questions of What Social Sci'ence should be and what role Social Science shoUld play within the general socia'l universe. Perhaps this is thus far concentrating on the Social Sciences to too great an extent. Technology, to Dr. Marx, is a major ·factor in understanding Continued on Page 3 by PETER BICKERMAN Professors) tenure guidelines ' Dr. Leo M.arx Profs Face Off ·an Sc.ience of Politics · Yes, this is another article about tenure. But don't stop reading yet;. after seemingly endless discussion and -hypothesizing there is finally some movement. A drastic change in the employment conditions of a segment of the faculty has been formulated, approved in principle by the Board of . Trustees, and now awaits full consideration by the faculty. If approved, the plan could place Union in the unlikely role of educational pacesetter, a!)d in the process. several gifted jt~nior faculty members who. could not receive tenure under a numerical quota system may still have long careers here. which could at the same time serve the best interests of the College. Working on that assumption, then, the Provost took the lead in formulating a plan to place certain faculty on so-called holding contracts. If the tentative outlines of this proposal are implemented (the final details are by no. means certain) the following scenario would occur. 'Faculty member.s would still be considered for tenure at the appropriate time (usually their sixth year here); ad hoc committees would still be appointed to assess the qualifications of each candidate. On the basis of information concerning enrollment trends, the Advisory Committee on Salaries, Promotions, and Tenure would then decide whether tenure slots are present in given departments. Assuming that there is no tenure slot available within his departmen.t,. the faculto/ member could be offered a contract of 2-5 years in length, though his first contract would probably not exceed three years. These contracts would be renewable. Therefore, it is theoretically possible, though improbable, that a professor could remain twenty years under a contractual auangement. by PHYLLIS EDE'LMAN Known for t,heir opinions in their respective fields (Latin American Studies and Soviet foreign Policy)! Professors Byron Nichols and Charles Gati also .express viewpoints on flying asses and high jumpers. lhese opinions were. presentee! .before a large crowd of students and faculty on Monday, January 15th, at the debate between the two men, \Can Politics Be Studied as a Science'' sponsored by the Political Forum. _Moderator ancl comedian was Professor Robert Sharlet, Chairman of the. Department of Political Science, who was \entirely above debate\ himself. · Arguing that politics can be studied as a science in most ·c.ases, Nichols was defensive on his stand. He conceded \reluctantly\ that in cases where data is not easily acces.sible, it is difficult to study politics scientifically. Informa~ion regarding Soviet Foreign Policy, Gati's field of research, Nichols emphasized as being less available . than information on the United States or Latin America. Nichols defined science as a \method\ which makes explicit , causal statements about the world which are independently verifiable. From these statements one uses induction to find general principles dedw;::ing from these other specific propositions in the real world. Using this criteria, he referred to an article written by . Gati, \Moderni-zation and Communist Power in Hungary'' in an effort to prove Gati's use of the scientific method. Scientific .studies, Nichols strongly stat~.d, are· ~'the most reliable way to· gather and understand knowledge of the world. Backing-this, he claimed, \Analysts who fly by the seat of their pants make asses of . themselves.\ Nichols was rather blase as to what one does with such knowledge after gathering·it, summarizing his feelings with the . question of, \So what?\ Replying negatively to the question, \Can politics be studied as a science?\ Gati made the point of not disagreeing with Nichol's scientific method, but with its use. He stressed that the key problem in political studies today is the loW level of generality. One's aim Continued on Page 2 It was not long ago that the tenure mess seemed utterly insoluble. However, as the prospect of losing talented people became imminent various . mem:bers of the administration and faculty searched for alternatives. Provost Willard Enteman decided that there was \nothing\ possible that could be effected within AAUP (American Association of University Race Relation Committee Reports -by MARCY KATE SCHWARTZ This system of extended Committee goings-on with other contracts could be used both for At the end of this month the black students. those qualified people ·in Union College Ad-Hoc According to Professor departments devoid of tenure Committee on Race Relations Underwood many of the openings and for those faculty will make a final report of their problems and complaints of black who are thought to be in some findings and proposals to Provost students often boil down to the way lacking credentials for tenure Willard Enteman. Meanwhile, a fact that there are so few blacks at but still valuable to the College. If preliminary report was made to Union. Because the black a tenure slot were to become the Provost on January 9, 1973. community is numerically small available while a faculty member The committee, which was the school can easily fall into a of that department is on a appointed by the Provost, pattern of white orientation. Ms. contract, that person could at that consists of five white and five ·Timms stated that many bla~ks time gain tenure. However, there black members. Representatives here feel that school activities are is nothing in this contractual of the administration, faculty, and indeed white-oriented. scheme which guarantees eventual student body are included. The Professor Underwood feels that tenure. Further,, those . on general purpose of the Committee the small number of blacks at extended contracts could be is to explore causes of and Union often comes down to one terminated at the end of the solutions to any friction between of the most often discussed contractual period on the basis of races here at Union College. questions here. That is, does the inadequate performance or lack There have been about four school want a more socially, of curricular need. ln addition, general meetings since the five economically, and racially the plan calls for some type of black members were appointed to diversified student body than it periodic review of every faculty the Committee late last term. has now? And, if it does want a member's performance at least Many different problems, ideas, more diversified student body, once every seven years. and plan!> have been discussed. just how much does it want it? If Provost Enteman acknowledges According to Professor James ,Jlnion . decides that_ a more that a proposal which diverges Underwood, a member· of the diversified student body is from traditional procedures might Committee, the idea of having the desirable, there is most definitely involve some \dangers but he Committee members speak with a catch to putting its decision into adds that the \flexibility\ those from other colleges where action. lfs the old Magic Word resulting from such a .plan should different ideas have already been MONEY. he enormously advantageous to tried was seriously considered. .Continued on Page 2 ihe institution as a whole. When However, the Committee has . .----·-------- ..... ·questioned about the problem of instead relied mpstly on the maintaining academic freedom people and resources here at The new schedule of library ·without tenure, Enteman hours: Mon.-Thurs. Union for suggestions and ideas. responds that the College expects M f th bl 8:30 a.m.-11:00 p.m. 1 50 any o e pro ems are F 'd at east percent of the senior d f . d b r1 ay 8:30 a.m.-10:00 p.m.~ e ll1e y the black Committee faculty to be on tenure at all . b . Saturday- 9;00 a.m.-5:00 p.m. mem ers who are actll1g as S d times, so as to provide a .. critical I , · b · un ay 12:00 noon-U:OO -p--.m~ tatsons etween the Committee mass\ of tenured faculty. Thf' d Beginning on Japuary 21, an the Union bla_ck_ community Provost's view is that if thesw 1 . . this new schedule will go into at arge. Lois Timms, black senior faculty·· \take their effect. On that day, the library Committ.ee member, feels that . I responsibilities seriously\ they wtl open at 12 noon rather then~ is honest.· representation of should be able to protect bl k · · h c · than 2 p •. m •l and on . ac optmoil on t e . omm1ttee academic freedom. Enteman also · · ~--- ·-- - subsequent Sundays when the because the black Committee believes that with Union deviating · · college is in session. rnembers do discuss the , . 1 Continued·onPage2 Professors Byron Nichol.v and Charles Gati ' . photo by Scott Gordon ·

' 2 CONCORDIENSIS, Friday, January /9, 1973 Tenure Proposals For Consideration 'At its meeting last Wednesday, the Board of Trustees received the following proposals on tenure from its Committee ori Academic Affairs and resolved: (I) To express their keen interest in the 'proposal and favorab'le reaction to it; (2). To request the President and Provost to present the proposal for discussion and debate among the broader college community; (3) To invite comment and suggestions regarding the proposal; and. (4) To undertake at its meeting next April to act on the proposal. Proposal: J. Retention of the present roll-out procedures for the determination of the number and placement of tenurable positioQs. II. A system much as at present with additional options. A. If there is a \tenurable\ opening, a Department Chairman or the Dean of Faculty may propose a candidate. I. If the Dean of Faculty approves (or if the Provost approves in the event of a Dean's proposal), an ad· hoc committee is formed, and the present procedure follows with the following exception: there are three alternati.ves (not two) open to the reviewers (i.e. ad hoc committee, Advisory Committee, Administration, Trustees): a. Tenure b. No tenure and .terminal appointment c. No tenure but the possibility of a contract (see Ill below). 2. If the Dean of Faculty disapproves (or if the Provost disapproves in the event of a Dean's proposal}, no ad hoc committee is formed and the candidate's name is returned to the Advisory Committee for recommendation with respect to contracts (see III below). B. If there is no tenurable opening for a particular candidate, the person may still be considered for a contract (see III below). IH. Along with the tenure possibility, the College has available the option of a series of contracts. The contracts are graduated in length, and are granted with advice from the Advisory Committee. Any particular contract could be written, as a terminal contract. . A In the first six years of· service (leaves of absence do not count), contracts would run normally no less than two years and no more than three years. In the first two year contract, netice of non- reappointment would be given by December of the second year. Otherwise, notice would be with a full calendar year. B. After the first six years, the College has available a series of · two, three, four and five year contracts to offer the faculty tnember. Various factors would be relevant in a decision (reached, again, with Advisory Committee advice) to offer one length rather than another. C. There would be periodic extensive reviews of each faculty member in the following years of service (leaves of absmce do not count; sabbatical leaves do count): 3rd, 6th, 13th, 20th, 27th. The third year review would be as at present (essentially an extensive departmental review). The other four reviews W<luld be • modifications of the present tenure review. Successful recommendation after the sixth year would require that notice of non-reappointment could be no less than two years. The Colle~e may, at its option, convert any portion of the second year into an equivalent amount of severance pay. Successful recomm.enda.tiQn after the thirteenth year· would require that · norm~Ily no contia(!t could be less than three years. Successful recommendatioa after the twenty-first year would require a contract normally no shorter than four years. These reviews would, obviously, be related to sabbatical requests; sabbatical policy woukl remain unchanged. None of the minimal length contract and notice provisions would be allowed to violate the present mandatory age 65 retirement ,provision. IV. In any three year period, tenured faculty will average no less titan one..:half of the full time faculty with more. than sevea years of service. V. A \grandfather\ clause would require that no one presently on tenure would lose his or her tenured position. VI. Tenure is no longer tied necessarily to title (i.e. an Associate P!\ofessor or Professor might not be on_ !~nure). .fGUDded at Union Collqeln 1877 \Perspective\ Letters To the Editor: I would like to compliment the staff of Perspective on producing an informative and well written paper. I noted with some dismay that few diners at Saga bothered to pick up a copy. However, I hope the editors will continue to distribute copies to West College, so residents will be able ·to find new issues easily. I hope the paper meets with success as Union badly needs an outlet for voices seldom heard. .Tom White * * * * To the Editor: At the Protect Your Environment meeting Wednesday night fourteen people were present. That is 14 out of a total population of about 1800~ As a Math major l can· tell you that that is not even one out of every hundred peop.le. Don't Union College students realize that unless we take action now, a few years hence we will all be ct:rowning in our own garbage? I personally would appreciate it if everyone Would get off his or her own ass and help us recycle paper. It takes one lousy hour once every two weeks. The exercise will do you good. Come to the next PYE meeting to involve yourself. I promise you it won't hurt. Marcy Kate Schwartz * * * * Dear Chet, In answer to your letter of Jan. 16, -we were truly tickled by your .show of interest. You were correct in your assumptions that the Mountebanks will be doing a production of \Moonchildren\ this term. Just as you suspected tryouts will be held Jan. 23 and · 24, and there is a script and a sign up sheet in the Green Room of the Nott Memorial. We take exception, however: to your labeling the pl~y a \comedy and rnoreover to the negative value judgement you connote by the use ofthis term. If you have read the play, you know that it is filled with a warmth and humanity that is increasingly rare in contemporary theatre. Perhaps, next time, you will not be so rash in making vague accusations based on partial information. And anyway, where the hell do you come off, fella? As for trying out, if we need a bronze statue, we'll let you know. Love, Ernie and Mo11ntie Banks Race .Relations Continued frorn.PaRe 1 If Union is to have a more diversified student body~ i,t is going to cost. Schol<mhips, tutoring programs, etc., · all require money. And, as Professor Underwood noted, in the college 1 s present financial state any proposals that would require a substantial sum of money will probably get no place fast. Subsequently, both Lois Timms. and Professor Underwo·od stressed the importance of student support .of proposals that the Committee will make. If the college becomes Tenure Continued from Page 1 from accepted tenure guidefines the AA UP will probably wat~h this campus closely for possible violations of academic freedom. · To repeat, nothing has been officially approved yet: This pl<tn will now be considered ·by the College community, possibly revised, and then resubmitted to the Trustees in April for final debate. The road to ratification may be a rocky one, for t,here are undeniably controversial elements in the plan. But those who have been involved in the frustrating · effort to do something about tenure now can feel some sa tisfacti'on. .. aware of tlte fact that there is s.trong student , :inter-est and support .of Commtttee :pr.Qposals, the proposals will probably ;be given more thoughtful and careful attention.. As Professor Underwood stated, '!J hope that the proposals. we make wiJ.l be acted upon; by the administtl:!tion and by 1rii students.\ . . 'fbe Minutes of tht St~!ll'ing · C~>mmittee meetirtg ofJanuary 10, 1973: The meeting was convened in the Beta Lounge at 9:15 p.m. by President Tony faga. Peggy Rundell presented the re,port of the Ad Hoc Committee on Hi9JlS;ins. A motion was meade .and seconded to accept this rep.~::nt. Followi~ discussion, .. .tl;le Steering Committt;e vo-ted unanimously to accept this report. Don DeCesare w~s appointed to head the Blood Drive on campus February 8- 9, with Art Just and Woody Lauer assisting him. Discussion on tht! constitution of the Squash Club was tabled · .due to the absence of the qlub representative. The meeting was a<ljour.ned at 10:30 p.m. The . next Steering Committee meeting will be heJd Jan\]ary 22 at 9:30 p.m. in the Beta Lounge . N!chols ~ Gati Spar CcntinuedfromPage1 gather data f~r. th,e .• U$:S.R., in .political stUdieS:-- Oati when av~ilable. on~.spouJd .J:!se. #. emphasized, should be a high Taking up :tltis. point in !lis level of generality. rebuttal, Gati refuted Nichols' ' In this day and age, Gati stated, point t~at. even ~n the United political scientists must .. quantify States It ts posstble to know or forget it.\ Searching for truth exactly how or when- American and objectivity; one cannot deny political deci!lions are made. :He limitations placed on him dJJe to stressed that we know tbe background and culture. These outcome of the decisions, b~t wei limitations, Gati pointed out, \eannot put Oean Rusk on ,the should be taken into account couch.\ when one seeks objectivity. · Unlike Nichols, who lacked Bmphasizing the \high jumper's, concern as to the use of his own dilemma,\ Gati noted that \most and other discoveries, Gati sophisticated method.ologists do pointed out that .. it does ma.tter not do substantive work in what we study and the results of political science. They cannot our inquiry. ~orne of the results jump as high as one would want.\ can be maniplilated, used against Political inquiry, Gati the public interest.\ In qu¢stions concluded, should be both policy- that followed., Nichols said he was and theory-relevant, using \$erious that political scientiests methods whi.ch combine shouldn't }):ave anything to do computer and thought analysis. with policy proce~s at all.;' He In the rebuttal Nichols largely believes though that he has \a agreed with Gati that, ''lots of moral committnent to nt<ike political · science is junk.\ Being thing~ (his knowledge) public.\ Orienta*tio*n * *counselor. th~ optomist, he noted the ''level . Nertber party form.ally won the of generality has not necessarily debate. Audience memb,ers were applications will be available late been achieved but that doesn't left to their own opmtons next term. More information mean it can't be.\ concerning tlylng asses., hjgii may be obtained by contacting Nichols reiterated that, while it jumpers, ami their relationship to the Dean of Students' Office. · · · * * * * may be physically impossible to pohfical sctenee. tevrs • LOWEST LIQUOR AND WINE PRICES INN. Y. STATE at Dave's Mens Shop 453 State St. (downtown Schenectady) Newspaper editors are supposed to be a very egocentric lot !t~.-...--------~...,....__, Moffett's Liquor Stor~~;~, \} with all of their combined talents and energies being directed t<lward the propogation of their own creation and, logically folhlwing this, the denunciatio~ of all attempts at competition. Not so in this case. One can only view with admiration and genuine exultation Volume <lne, Number one of Perspective, the newspaper of the Rinck Student Alliance. Freedom of expression can never nourish when there is only a single medium in which this expression can take place. For this reason, aside from. all of the others that could surely be expressed, we wish Tom Watts and all of the staff of Perspective the most luck possible and, ktwwing all of the grief that goes into this mess, a whole lot of determination. ~ amr . . . r ,. \ , foncordlensis is puhhshcd ~\~1) rucsd:l) and Frid:t) dtu·inp ihc sdttl<>l .~·c;lr cxcqll d,urin!! ~x.1 ntinnlil>ll und 1 ncuti••n p~riods h~ th~ •tlllk'IH h<ld) 111' t ·nt<lll f•>llcge. Schcm'clildy. :\\. Y. \:ttitlllal adlcrtising rcprcscnl:lt ih'. \ati11rtul . fducati11nai Ad\.:rtisin~,t Scr11w. Inc. ('tlilcl!c l'unlishcr' R.-prcs<'lll:lti\ ~. !\ationul Fducnlimwl Ad\crtising Scnkc. lrw .. :\\.\'.C. hlirorial Office-, ()ltl (ipn. Union College. l'uhlication Offiw. fhc .k1\ish Wt>l'id IM>Iic:llitln,, 771 Statdi1!Wl. Schcnccmd1. :\;. \'. 12J07. ,1.J<>-1J.!io. l'ntca:.:d 111 iltc Sch<'llL'Ciad) ,post of(jc,• as Second ct:iss Mail Mutt.•r.Suhscriptiun .:!0 cent> II Ctlfl~ < SN tl ).•'<II' delivered um·\ ltcrc in the { Jnitcd Stutcl'. · Deadline i'or all ~!lpJ. which mu~t be t)pcu and dtiuhlc-spaccd. i~ 1 p.m. ttn Monday and Thursdur :ti 1hc ('onrord)' lllfkc. all•l\C Old l'hapcl. O(ficc telephone numhcr t~ 371l-61 55. hut thl' tll'fkll is nnl~ in U>C 1111 !\lund:t) and Thun;da)\ nights. f-'or ull editorial niattcrs. call th<.' <.'f.littlr-an-dtid ul J93-·. 1640;for iriformutioncall Studcni Acti\itics omc•• at.l711-6IIN. prgently Needed! Married couples to babysit part/full time. Permanent live in situations available for this semester, Work as much as you want. Call University. Family Services ·Jne. (Agency) 456-0998 RESEARCH MATERIALS All Topics Send .for your descriptive, up-to-date, l28~page, mail order catalog of 2,300 quality research papers. Enclose $1.00 to cover postace and handli111, RESEARCH UNLIMITED 519 GLENROCK AVE., $UITE 203 LOS ANGELES, CALIF •. 90024 1213} 477-8474 • 477-5493 \We ne!!d a loc111 salesman\ · Co:rner of Van Vranken A venue - ~··:~ (Get Ready for Home Game \':'\ S~t: ) C.AMP·US .INTERVIEWS. School of Management Rennselaer Polytechnic Institute A representative of. Rensselaer wm be·on the Union COHege·campus on MONDAY, JANUARY29 to speak to students (n'ten and women) interested in graduate degree programs in: . •-Private.{lndllitrial) M~agement . · • Public Management · ' . • • Management Engineering ' • . · • Operations Research and Statistics Make appointments at College Placement Office Ill Afl Library my tnir 0f ··tom Just as bY me, four bo reallz~d student album smile. .the wa: under'1 As ' assigfllil ·wrong' section that th• talking of an here I Beta diSCOV( poor li momer Fina basern< materl1 essay. · absent librari~ borro\1 I ·presen1 book 1 ·Techll( Ideal i this· is~ writer unders cornpo sciet~tii Indeed that ht barrier ·a.na th feeling eventu batriet and 1 should see ho '-'\\' pictun is trior one c staff paper that I profes conce1 three Union and r part \il or at Sci eric at R:O Rea ' . -

is als, he be d t. d s . . CONCORDJENSIS,. frida:r. Ja'!t~aryl9, 1973 3 T-hwarted· At The Library The Baroque .chamber ensemble l MlJSICJ di Rom a will perform in Memorial. <:hapel Thursday, Jan. 25., 8:30 p.m. Union students admitted free upon showing their lD cards. * * * If you have any gripes· by GEOFF TAYLOR point · Murphy's Law lf concerning the library or As I walked into Schaffer anything ~n g? wrong, it wil~- suggestions for its improvement, Library, one gelid evening, i had was s~ep.mg mto my evenmg. .pleast contact; Kathy Mitchell, my tnind on the drildgerous task ·; .Here lt IS, W:OO already. One 107 North, 370-2493; Tom of ··composing 'a · research paper.. mor~ hour to go. . . Conley, 257 Davidson, 277-4936; Just as l entered, ·a student passea Wtth my nerves bemg shatt~red .Geoff Taylor, 109 South, 346- bY rne with a grinning expression, by my lack. of su~cess, I dectded 9396 . f(}ur· books, and an album. Later 1 to rel~x th1s evemng and r~ad a * * * * reallz~d the student was not a ·magazme. UP to the mezzan,me - WELCOME! You are cordially student and the books and the no Newsweek, no Harpers, no invited to attend .Christian albllm 'were not his - only the Time. 1 searched allover for s~me Science Orga'niz:ation meetings smile. This stnile was similar to magazine that was worth readmg, every Tuesday night at 7:00 p.m. the way a child looks .at presents bu~ to no avaiL That pe.rson's in Hu. 018. The meetings include under 'a Christmas tree. Sf!Ule (at th~ door) turned 1 llto a Bible readings and Testimonies of As I sat . down to. start my :Jeer ... th~ l~ghts went ~ut ... oh, the use of Christian Science in assigl'l'inent, I knew it was !he God, thts 18 ,the end. ?ops, I everyday activ~ties. This week's wrong' place; this was th~ talkmg fo~got.- thats t~e warmng t~at ··topic is drugs. Won't you j<\lin us? section, ·tater, I wa~ enlightened 1 ~.00 Is approachmg .. Into the all * * * * that therewas no such thing as a mght study room... The Union College Coffeeh.ouse talking section - 1 h was just sort · Just reaching the study. room,.· will present David Q. Bernstein of an understood thing, From the glass_ doors closedbehmd me and Union•s own Tom Parisi on here I proceeded on to the Phi and I picked a carrel. Half.an Friday night, January 19; at 8:30 Beta Kappa Room an~ hour went by and 1 was startmg p,m. in Old Chapel. Admission discovered peace and quiet and to feel. cold. Wender .why? Th.e will be 50 cents and, as 1,1sual, poor lighting - 1 thought, for a heater 18 on the other stde; so I Sit coffee and doughnuts will be free. moment, 1 was back in my dorm. there. · Another .half hour passes * * * * Finally; I ended up on the and •. st~rt feel!ng hot, a,nd . tJ:te General skating begins this basement floor_ inspecting certain persptrat~on begms to flow ... stt m weekend at the Girling Center on material to help me compose my the mtddle... NO S_EA.TS Saturday from l to 9 p.m., and essay. I noticed a few books were AVAILABLE ... to hell With 1 t:.. on Sunday from I to 9 p.m. For absent. I checked later with the off to the Rathskeller ... but watt, further information, call Mrs. li·brarian who said they were it's 12 :00 ... Murphy, you bum Marta at 370-6118. borrowed permanently. At this you! * * * * Marx Visits ·Union Continued from Page 1 · present:.Jay situations. Indeed, his book The Machine in the Garden: Dr. Marx's schedule next week will also include the following opportunities for students to tneet and hear him: SS Faculty Lounge- Tuesday, 10:30-11:15 A.M. . Davidson Coop Lounge, discussion on .. Future of American Studies\ - Tuesday, 3:30-5:30 P.M. Humanities Faculty Lounge~ Wednesday, 9-10 A.M. · An open meeting of the Social Committee will be held this Tuesday. January 23, at 7:30 in the Hale House Student Lounge. Suggestions for future concerts and social events will be welcomed. Here is your chance to get involved and have a say in Union's social scene. Be there. * * * * Merry Clayton will bring her rock 'n' soul show to Memorial Chapel next Saturday evening at 8:30. Also ort the bill is the urban h~mor ofcomedian Robert Klein. Tickets will go on sale Monday in Technology and t~e Pastoral Ideal in' America· spe'aR:s to just this' isst1e, In the opinion of this writer Dr. Marx seeks to understand problems by analysing components that most social scie!Jtlsts simply leave behind. Indeed, although Dr. Marx states that he \wants to break down the barriers between the Humanities ·and' the\Sociaf Sciences,;' it is my feeling that in so doing he will . . the Student Activities Office. * * * * * * * * * * * , Student tickets are only $2. --- ' **** eventually have to deal with the The Union College Hillel barriers between Social Science group is planning a large Oneg and the Natural Sciences. It Shabbat (Sabbath Party) for should be extremely interesting to Friday evening, January 26, 1973. see how he deals with this issue. Included in the plans are w--..~t ·i>l'ls ·emerged so far is a candle-lighting ceremonies, picture of a scholar, yet Dr. Marx welcoming of the Sabbath is more than this. A phone call to (Kabalat/ Shabbat) services, to be one of my compatriots on the followed by a full-course .dinner, staff of the Amherst~ student study groups, and much singing paper brought to lig?-t the fact and dancing. that Dr. Marx is a dedicated All those interested in professor who shows a real attending are asked to contact concern for his students. The Paul Ebin at 370-5196 or Marcy three days that he spends at Schwartz in 312 West by January l.Jniofi should be both' interesting 19 so that proper arrangements and rewarding for all who take can be made · for food and part ·in either informal gatherings activities. There is no cost. All or attend the lecture in Social are invited to attend and Sciences 016 next Tuesday night participate. Shabbat Shalom. * * * > ~~o:o:..,__....,....._ ________ .._ _______ ....,., M·AMA ·BfA.NCHI'S REST AURANTI 1135 Barrett S~. Real Italian Food· Cooked T.o Order i,: · We Cater. To ... students ·- · the Friendliest Place in ~own . OPEN TO 3 A.M FRt. ·a1111. SAT, On Monday, January 22, at 7:30 p.m. in Hale House Student Lounge, another episode .in the exciting series \The Professor as Scholar .. will take place. Featured this week will be Fred Hartwig of the Political Science Department and Jan Ludwig of the Philosophy Department. All are invited to come and partake of the discussion and ·the refreshments. * * * * The Security Office stil\ maintains the campus Lost and Found and has a collection of sneakers, watches, books, and other sundr~es, which may be claimed upon proper identification. --· -. Pu_:ity I sa bella s t:!i\.~&~ ;;, \91 PHARMACY. INC. }/Accuracy · 527 Union St. Schenectady _N.Y. Ph. 370-2300 WELCOME UN!f:JN STUDENTS ATTENTION SOPHOMORE COE,DS Come :l_n And P.ick Up Your Union College Key ••• GRATIS ••• . Jewlers · Downtown i\11aurice B. Graubart & Sons· scmnectady \3 union Graauates in Graubart family', 166 Jay Street_ Congresswoman Shirley Chisholm, the first Black woman · to run for the office of President of the United States, will be the first speaker of Schenectady County Community College's \Women in Leadership\ series on Sunday, January 21. The lecture at 8 p.m. at l.U.E. Hall on Erie Blvd., is free and open to the public; Mrs. Chisholm entered the House of Representatives as a freshman to the 9Ist Congress representing a portion of New York City. She serves on the Select Education, General Education, and Agricult ura I Labor Subcommittees. She is also Chairman of the Military Affairs Committee of the Congressional Black Caucus. When running for Congress, she campaigned under the slogan ''Unbought and Unbossed,\ the title of her published autobiography. Her soon-to-be- published second book, The Chisholm Trail in '72, will·tell the story of the pre-campaign and ·campaign, using human anecdotes to portray the varied emotions of her campaign. * * * * Wrestling Continued from Page 4 Molbury, 1972 champ of the N.ew York Universities Wrestlmg Tournament, .at the l77lb. weight class. That same year he was seventh in the nation. Annis hopefully will regain his self- confidence. Dr. William A. Fietz will give an illustrated talk on \Engineering Applications of Superconductivity\ on Tuesday, January 23, at 7:30 p.m. in Butterfield 204. Superconductivity is the ability of some metals to conduct large electrical currents with no resistance when cooled to a few degrees above absolute zero. This phenomenon enables small super- conductive magnets t-o outperform extremely large normal magnets. Several applications will be discussed, including power transmission, levitated transportaion, motots and . generators, and fusion power. Dr. Fietz is a staff scientist for advanced materials at Inter- magnetics General Corporation in Guilderland, New York. Before joining I.G.C., he was a research physicist with Union Carbide, where he developed a new manufacturing process for super- conducting mate'rials. Dr. Fietl. recei~d his B.E.E., M.S., and Ph.D. at Cornell University. He is a member of the American Physical Society, I.E.E.E., American Association. for the Advancement of Science, and Phi Kappa Phi. The Student Branch of the Institute of Electrical and Electronics Engineers invites everyone to attend this program; refreshments will be served. PYE NeWs Freshman Greg Lyons' fate was The wishy-washy PYE Club not much different. . It was a under its new wishy-washy matter of time. He saw the steel president managed to make a few beams on the ceiling in 1:44. decisions at Wednesday's meeting. Coach Everling was forced to First, PYE is in this term. forfeit two. weight classes: the 11.8 Recycling is in this term. So is lb., and the heavyweight spot. hassling people and organizations Bob Hesse decided that wrestling around here that waste paper, or. was not suitable for his health promote , any such misuse Qf and decided tq stay off the mat. resources, in the hope that the Coach Everling, interviewed people of Union might be no:t. after the match felt that his team only \environmentally aware\ in · had done a decent job. ..Zullo that they know of the problems, wrestled ~ l].ell ()f a m~t~h . and but also '!env.ironme.ntally con- ( smilingly) Freeman dtd an scientious .. in that they are also excellent job. A couple of spots _,JJoing something by way of we should have taken. Everett alleviation of the problems. We · should have beat his opponent might even show some mor.e and Jeff White could have looked \Ecology Movies.. if interest is · a little better. Potsdam had shown and arrangements can be '. definitely a good team.\ made, CORRECTIONS _ Due to a Basically, we decided to continue what we have been technical error it was reported in Tuesday's Con.:ordy that doing and to make our presence Dagostino dropped a 3-0 known. urging Union to become a decision. It should have read 6-4. model of wllat it should be Also \Fred Lanes started his re~rding its tr~tment of the losing streak\ should have env1~onment and 1ts resources and appeared as ''Fred Lanes started • the h~e, befQre we go out to save h . d'bl t k , the c1ty of Schenectady and the 1s ere 1 e s rea . ld wor . Levrs • Dave's' Mens Shop 453 State St. (downtown Schenectady) Back to reality, our first collection of paper for recycling for the term will be Friday, Jan . 19, starting at 1:00 p.m. Any comments, questions, or complaints, please call me ·at 370- 4977. Thank you. IS. NOW Itt P~IISS ·uve AT LEAST ·l· .o· %OfF .......... ~ ·w• .,_ • ,_ ......,.. ., .....,. .... • .IUI1'S • TOPCOATS. a OVIKOAT$ e SPORT COATS • I&ACU • IUIIIIUH COATS • e SPOIT SHilTS e IIIUT IHI!lTS . • CAIDieAN IWIA'rO$ • Nl..f.OQIIWIA'IIll · . . . • liiCKWIAhM-r ...... .,._, . . ~ ... ,...:..;_.,. .,.._ ... _ .. . .............. -. .... 11!11,-------- ..... - ..... ...

'• , . . 4 CONCORDJENSJS, Frida).', Januarp 19, !973 - --- ' ·~ . Jeffs and Refs Nip Hoop, Wesleyan Here Saturday Zullo, Freeman 3-0; Team 0-3 by FRANCESCO ISGRO The answer will be e·..tident at 'the next home match' when fhe \Champ\ will finally appear. by MARK W. MINDEL Missing key shots down the stretch, the Union College basketball team dropped a heart- breaking 43-42 thriller to Little Three contender Amherst Wednesday night, dropping the Garnet record to 4-4. The game was marked by poor .shooting throug{lout. Union, which trailed 26~ 18 at the half of the low scoring affair, slowly chipped ·away at the Lor.d Jeff lead at the onset of the second period. Mike Doyle hit successive shots to bring Union within six, 28-22, at 18:02. Amherst reopened a 10 point lead, 34-24,. with 16:31 remaining, • but a Tom Combs' 20 footer and a Geoff Walker 3 point play drew Union within five, 34-29, at 15:48. After anothel\ Lord Jeff bucket, . Combs and Walker agai.n followed suit to cut the margin to three, 36-33, with 13:52 left. The next four and a half minutes, marked by turnovers, saw little scoring, and a goaltendingcall on Union made it 40-35 with 8:50 remaining. At this juncture Mike Doyle received a flying Amherst elbow, sidelining him for a crucial four minute period. In the interim Tom Bacher and Geoff Walker hit jumpers while Amherst could muster only a foul shot, and when Doyle returned to action with 4:44 left, the score was 41-39 Amherst. Doyle quickly made his presence felt. At 4:32 Doyle tied the game on a two-pointer off a feed from freshman John Denio. Denio had missed his own shot, grabbed the rebound, and found Doyle underneath. Short-Lived' One minute later Doyle was fouled on a drive and converted the second shot for- a short lived 42-41 Union lead with 3:30 remaining. Union was fated not to score another point down the stretch, although several opportunities availed themselves. At 2:46 after a Lord Jeff turnover via the tough Union press, Tom Bacher went to the line for the first of two crucial one and ones Union was to miss. Geof( Walker grabbed the rebound and Union controlled the ball. With 2:1 5 remaining Chuck Abba found Bacher slanting towards the hoop but an off- balanced T J missed an easy / layup. 25 seconds later 6'5\ forward Glenn Farrell put Union on the ropes, 43~42 with a lay-up. Farrell finished the night with 15 points and led the battle ·to the offensive boards, where Amherst easily hand led Union. After Doyle missed a driving . one-bander and Amherst missed a short jumper, Mike' was fouled grabbing the rebound. At 0:59 Mike missed the important first shot of the one and one, but again Walker grabbed the loose ball. Union aalled time-out for strategy. Deciding to hold the ball for one good shot at the hoop, Union put the pressure on the offense. For thirty seconds Union passed the bail around the perimeter of the Amherst zone, and with ten seconds left Bacl}er Jet loose a ten~footer, which missed, grabbed his own rebound ·and missed again. With 0:08 showing on the Field House clock, 6\7\ center Dan Maguilles was fouled on the · rebound and typically, missed the first end of his one and one. · The Tall -Guard Chuck Abba, Cl!tting off the shooter, grabbed the rebound and dribbled upcourt, finding Combs with 4 seconds left in the corner. Combs, who had an ex.~eptional night as play-maker and guard, including three long bombs in the second half which kept Union alive, missed a twenty-footer. Geoff Walker was underneath for the rebound, but the ball caromed off to the sidecourt and was grabbed by Amherst. It was reminiscent of last year and an especially discouraging loss for Union who had played gutty ball in its last two hard-fought wins over Clark and Rochester. Union had led for \the first ten minutes of the game, opening a 16-12 lead. Amherst forged ahead in the remaining minutes of the first half outscoring Union 14-2. Two technical fouls aided the Lord Jeff cause. The technicals, both converted, actually contributed to eight points for Amherst: The two conversions, a bucket on the ensuing play, and four. possible points wL:h Union did not get a chance tO get. Absurd Tech's The first was absurd. Mike Doyle cleanly intercepted a pass on a two-on-one break, fronting thP intended receiver. He was See Stereo .Bargain'-V- At Art's S·ales and Service In the Proctor's Arcade SYMPHONIC AM-FM 8 Tr Deck . Turntable With Stand reg. 215.95 $18995 SYMPHONIC Portable Stereo with Tape Inputs reg. $135.95 $6495 Reliable service on all makes and model stereos and televisions. . . 370-3680 called for pushing off and his initial reaction resulted in the tech. Walters was slapped with the second technical for complaining that Abba ~hould have been given two foul shots, instead of Union gettin <:· the ball out of lroun.ds, after Chuck was fouled, apparently while taking a shot. These mistakes, phis an Amherst butzer shet to end the first half, helped Amherst put Union in a position it just doesn't have the maturity to face - playing 'Catch-up ball. Without a Jimmy Tedisco or a Billy Carmooy at the important guard position Union cannot fall behind. The Garnet's next game is this Saturday versus Wesleyan, at Memorial Field House, 8 p.m. BoxscoFes: Amherst Union GP,Y, . G FT LaVigne 3 2 8 Doyle 4 3 II Petrides 4 0 8 Bacher 5 0 10 Farrell 7 I 15 Walker 5 3 13 Margulies 4 0 8 Abba I 0 2 Couch 2 I} 4 Combs 3 0 6 Totals 20 3 43 ·Totals 18 6 42 Bowing to powerful Potsdam University, 39-9, the Union College wrestling team kept up its iij:lpressive losing streak. lt was an undefeated Potsdam team that squelched, quashed and squashed the unsettled Garnet. YeiJers Squeak It was a beautiful Wednesday afternoon, and Alumni Gym was filled by a mob eager to see the first home appearance of their fellow grapplers. Like years before, dispersed among the multitude where those people who wou·ld finally get a chance to stretch their vocal cords. All went as years before for the first 4 or five matches, and then,· then it became a different crowd who was watching the meet. Fewer squeals were heard. Sorrie people began to leave, and ·by the tirne the heavyweight meet was . 'forfeited to Potsdam, only a . moribund few remained ... Maybe·' · the team's poor performance prompted ,those people to leave; . or it might have been Benedict's ~absence in the heavy weight class. Undefeated Frosh Beat Amherst 59-4 7 by BILLY THE KID & LITTLE LEE After a big game with Siena attack, as he tallied 12 of his 14 was cancelled last Saturday night, points during the final twenty the freshman basketball team minutes. Union maintained seemed to suffer a let-down as it control throughout the remainder looked sluggish hut still defeated of the contest, with the lead Amherst, 59-47. This lethargy was fluctuating from ten to fifteen evident during warmups and points. As usual Scanlon utilized carried over into the, early action, the talents of all Qf his players as as the first four minutes produced an obviously inferim Lord Jeff only two points and lack luster contingent succumbed to the performances on the part of both undefeated freshmen. teams. Play maker Bill Henson Union received its only spent most of the first half on the consistent floor shooting f~om bench with two personal fouls center John Raymond, who and Joel Fischer re-injured his netted 9 of 20 attempts· to lead knee to complicate matters. It was the team with 18 points. not until Dave Viniar was However, the team also received inserted late in the half that the bad news when Joel Fischer team began to look as they have hobbled off the court in agony in previous games. Viniar added from ano!her apparent knee movement and three baskets to injury. Fischer,. who has already the attack to .spark the Dutchmen had an operation this year and to a 30-26 advantage at halftime. wear.s a protective knee' brace, Coach Scanlon must have had may be out of action for the rest more than a mouthful for his of the season. This will put more team in the lockerroom and when pressure on a team that hopes to play resumed, Union quickly finish unbeaten, but has now been .. stretched its lead to ten points. depleted by the loss of Fischer Steve Kelly led the second half and John Denio, who is presently ,...;;:;;=~~~=~==~-~~ on the varsity. Levfs Zullo. Lead!i Team Captain Mark Zullo and teammate Bruce. Freeman kept their unblemished reco\Td alive. They have now won6 consecutive matches. Wrestling at 126, Zullo notched a convincing ~r;2 decision. His victory gave tll_e team the enly 3 earned points 'of the meet. Freeman i!dded the other 6, by accepting a :ferfeit at the 134 lbs. weight class. Free}nan's victory was the second and the last for the Dutchmen. Freshman Scott Media, a 142 pounder, was caught looking at the ceiling with 54 seconds remaining in the match, He saw the world upsidedown· and while contemplating from that angle af view he heard a slap oft the mat. It was the end. Hopefui Tom Everett dropped a 5-2 decision, bringing his record to 1-l-1. Where the \2\ wiU appear next depends on Everett's ability .to pull himself together. Sophomore Jeff White suffered his second loss of the season. He was blanked 4-0. ...... ' d\ • vv.o .... ~oo ••• Senior Gary Gurney suffered his first setback: of the season against a well talented opponent. Gurney was cradled, grapevined, and wrappeq together many times, but didn't give up that 6- point pin. Talent and sportsmanlike conduct usually go together. Undeniably, Gurney's opponent was a good wrestler but his co.nduct was very deplorable. In the last 30 seconds Gurney started to be pushed around and in one instance he almost got kicked. The refere~;: charged the Potsdam \wise-guy\ with unsportsmanlike conduct, and deducted one team point from the culprit's team total Speaking personally, Potsdam's coach would do himself a favm by not bringing this \wise-guy\ to Union again. David vs. Goliath Dave Annis, wrestling·· at the 177 lb. weight class, didn't even get a chance to look at · his opponent's face. He was quickly taken down, and · within 57 seconds was cradled up and wrapped like a ribbon around a candy box and was ready for delivery. ·.The grappler who prepared the package deserves some introduction. He is Rich Continued on.Page-3 -- - - -- .\':\\ - ...... - - Now open 7 days/ week Dave's' Mens Shop. 453 State St. (downtown Schenectady) -· PROCTOR'S Wi.~: · STATE ST., S'GHENEGTADY ~i'''''''''''t''''''''§'''m====~======~=~==l%==~==:==~==~~ r:: Jan. 17-Jan. 25 ~~~: 1::~~~ '· The Brothers Ill under '' UniQn \ .. management J MEALS -·· , 1 i a.m.-12 Midnight I . . . - . t 'J' COMING Assorted Variety Of Jan. 23-Feb. 8 Walt Disney's Classic Sword in the Stone · and The Silver Fox and Mr. Davenport WINE AND CHEESE Hot & Cold S~ndwiches At College Prices -1679 VanVranken Ave. 374-5679 TH'I.JRS. I NIGHT 2 blocks up EXCELLeNT DARK .BEER ON· TAP ,- - Vol. ( Or Com Men with Tick Men Unil othe M fmdi a st: SOffil Tod: be hi soul the perf, H in I first pow two Rea GoJ, sch< valt COfl; of Phi Su~ day Rat lea< am hus not J tha wm dec A; opt su~ VO< It \G cia Mt pet wh ere rul th< pst sta COl Re lat Sh D1

Vol. 102, No. 24 Merry Concert . . by ROBERT Sl-IUGOLL On Friday evening the Social Committee w.ill presl!nt musician Merry Clayton in -c·oncett along with comedian Robert Klein. Tickets for the t:l:JO show at Memorial Chapel cost $2.00 for Union students and $2.50 for all others. Merry Clayton is finally finding success after ten years as a studio and backup singer for some of the top naines in music. Today, with less than two years behind her as ·a solo artist, this soul-roc.ker is quickly climbing the ladder to stardom as a performer in her own right. Having discovered Merry back in 1962, Bobby Darin was the first to take advantage of her powerful singing ability, and the two recorded a duet, \You're the Reason I'm Living,\ which was a Gold Record single. Still in high school, Merry began gathering. valuable experience by doing constant studio work for the likes of Elvis Presley, Pearl Bailey. Phil Ochs, Darin, and the Supremes. Following her school days she joined Ray Charles' Raelets for a two year stint as lead singer, during which ·she met and married her p·rescnt husband, Curtis Amy, the highly noted tenor saxophonist. A change of scene, something that has marked Merry's career, was called for in 1968 so she decided to go back to the studio. A year later came the break that opened up her career: she supplied the wailing backup vocals for the Rolling Stones' l.et It Bleed album, on the song \Gimme Shelter,\ now a Stones classic. lhe public, unaware of Merry's reputation am<mg her peers, didn't know what to think when they saw her name given credit for the vocal piece. So rumors burst all over to the effect that Merry Clayton was a pseudonym for another singing star. New 24 years old, Merry has complete\d two LP's for Ode Records, Gimme Shelter and her latest, entitled Merry Clayton. She is aided on the latter by David T. Walker, her husband Continued on Page 2 founded at Union . College in 18.77. Tuesday, .January 23, 1-973 20cents Pres .. Inauguration Protest Goes Well by BUFI'ALO \At time of crisis men and women ordinarily preoccupied with their own professional activities may be impelled to engage in an extraordinary action of public protest.\ (redress) .. * * The trip to Washington was just another long car ride. The atmosphere in the car was one of gaiety, almost reaching the point of being happy-go-lucky. This was but a disguise, though, a facade masking the true seriousness of the venture. We really didn't know what to expect in Washington. Reading local papers hardly enlightened Us. They seemed to be playing down the demonstration. The police were also 4uiet on the demo, especially about the number of people that they were expecting to show up. Housing ·soard byDEBJ~SS~ropos e d would be made up of the Dean oi The guys in South plead for Housilig, Dean of Students, a laundry facilities, men in Maintenance representative, and Davidson fear theft from lack of . five student representatives (to be security, \'5th-me!!\ are searching appointed by the Committee on for true homes, the girls in Fox Committees, considering a cross and West want hairdriers, and section of the student body), and every body 1s wa1t1 ng f 0 r it would . be responsible for all maintenance. An industrious housing policy including the R.A. proposes a lounge plan for setting of financial priorities for Fox and Davidson, an ambitious dorm spending, rules and student consi~ers the possibility regulations for dorms, and of improvising kitchen or study services to the dorms. The board areas in a dorm lacking them, would accomplish many desired and many other individuals have steps in its initiation: 1) bring constructive ideas concerning dorm maintenance under the their residence facilities. Most control of Housing (it is now . C()ntinued on Page 3 Considering the occasion, one would expect the estimates to be many. This wasn't the case, though. The Inauguration itself was the event the media concerned itself with. Orders from the President, I suppose. The possibility of a small amount of people showing up acted as a damper on our enthusiasm during the week preceding the demonstration. It had been the major topic of conversation during the week and concern was often expressed that no one would show up. Our doubts increased on the day of the march when we heard a radio report that there were only 1500 people at Lincoln Memorial and another hundred or so at Arlington National Cemetery. While these figures were, at the least, disheartening, we hoped for the best and made our plans for the day. Our morale received an immeasurea:ble boost when we were riding the bus into Washington. There were people on the bus discussing the merits of the SDS. People on the streets were heading to Wasnington ir groups of twelve or thirteen, and Georgetown was swarming with students. Things started looking better for a good turnout at the demo. We got off the bus at Washington Circle and made our way down to 21st Street. We headed down to Lincoln Memorial, picking up people all along the way. The area surrounding the ReOecting Pool was teeming with humanity. The steps of Lincoln Memorial were completely covered with people, and chartered busses by the hundreds were bringing in more all the time . students at Union live in a college dorm for some or all of their time here, yet all <Jf the campus housing decisions are made by Dean Sheila Beam, Dean Edward~ Malloy, and Provost Willard Enteman. Despite overwhelming student concern for and involvement in housing. tbis is virtually the only area of college life that does not formally include students in the decision making processes. Ms. Chisholm Calls Women Into Action It is for these very reasons that Peg Rundell filed a complaint with the Steering Committee in the Fall term. As in the pattern of all good steering committees, ours cornmissioned the formation of an.other committee to investigqte the speci1ic C()fl1P-laint. It was to be call~d tff!e:#Ad Hoc Committee on -I;Iousitig: Along with Peg, and· ·Steering Committee m·em.hers Don DeCesare. Woody: ~L~l.\er, Nina Wolf, ~nd Laura' GTeene, the committee was formed. Throughout the Fall term, the: committee ·met and talked with students in their residence halls and discussed possible ways for students to become involved in the process. They .ha-ve just recently c.ompleted a final report. The report, which has just been ratified and strongly endorsed by the Steering Committee, will be finally considered by Dean Beam and Dean Malloy this Wednesday. The A.d Hoc Committee on Housing has recommended the establishment of a Housing Board~ to be a com1nittee of the All-College Senate. This board Congresswoman Shirley Chisolm spoke Sunday night at the I. U.E. hall on Erie Boulevard. She is the first speaker in the \Women in Leadership\ series being sponsored by Schenectady County Community College. · Her speech seemed designed as a call to action and a challenge to women to• assert themselves politically. She received a standing ovation at its conclusion and again at the end of the question-and- answer session that followed. She said she felt that a great many changes were needed in America to prevent the country from going down the drain. In a country that needs all the help it can get. she said, there simply is not enough time to worry about ~hether a person who has the talent and desire to work toward socml change is a man or a woman, black or white. America, she said \need.s women to save America's children.\ While the speech centered more on the general role women could play in reshaping society than on specifically political questions, she did attack the Nixon Administration for its lack of action on the domestic front. In the\course of her speech she drew scveral.!'arallels between the plight of women and of blacks in this country. Both are taught from the beginning of their education that society is run by white men. Both blacks and women, she said, a.re characterized as unin!elligent, irrational, illogical, immature, materialistic, and lacking in ambition and executive ability. Also, Mrs. Chisolm felt that both blacks and women are forced by an unresponsive society into being aggressive in order to draw attention to their talents. Women, she said, do not initially desire to be aggressive, but are forced into aggression by a society which d,oes not pay attention to what they have tp say until they do ·become aggressi-ve: Women, she insisted, eo 'not desire to be aggressive, but rather to be heard as women without alienating their husbands and families. Without being in any way anti-male (indeed, she went out of her way to make sure her speech \\as not seen as anti-male), Mrs. Chisolm's speech was certainly pro-female. Women have, she said, through years of oppression, learned patience, tolerance,. and perseverance, qualities which, if brought into the realm of politics. might result in the salvation of the nation, The demonstration seemed to be a bit disorganized, but it didn't really matter, as everybody was there to march. They didn't care who they marched with, they just wanted to march. There was an air of expectancy about, a n a i r o f a nge r a n d discontentment. Cries of \yip yip, yip\ permeated the atmosphere. The \subversive crazies\ were ready for action. The march finally started and after a half an hour had passed, the entire right side of Constitution Avenue, from Lincoln Memorial to Washington Monument, was overOowing with people. Their obje.ctive was Washington Monument, where the speeches would be held. As usual, the speeches were utter bullshit ·- they told us how bad war was and how good peace would be. As if we didn7t know. I left at this point and went up to Pennsylvania Ave. to watch the \other parade.\ The entire parade route was lined with bleachers. Boy Scouts were acting as ushers and every state had a float depicting an important event in their history. The military was also well re·presented, by the various Academies. They all marched up Pennsylvania Ave. to the reviewing stand and El Presidente. It all was so American. I continued up the street until l reached \White House Block.\ It looked as it if were in a state of seige. There were riot equipped police, Federal troops and M P's all over. Policemen on horses dispersed any crowds that happened to gather. Unable to get anywhere near the White House, l started back to hear the last of the speeches and catch Pete Seeger's act. It was all very exciting. The '\informative\ speeches finally ended and everyone left, but not before the police chased some would-be parade blockers around the Treasury Department Building. Finally, the long day of \public protest\ was over. Nixon was officially in for another four year reign. and 130,000 weary marchers headed home, their mission accomplished. >I< * * * The people I saw was what amazed me the most. The types of people ran the entire route: from hard core Yippies and SDS'ers to little kids; from Women's Lib to Gay Lib. Any group who was anything was there. On the other hand. there were hardhats for Nixon, little kids for Nixon. mothers for Nixon. America was pretty well represented. Whether or not anything material comes of it all remains to be seen. Peace is seemingly at hand, although we have been lied to before. If peace is at hand, Washington will be remembered as th.e last gasp of a dying movement. If peace is not at hand, there will be many more Washingtons. For the country's sake, the former had better prevail. * * * * ATTENTION: All candidates for the 1973 football squad will meet in the Block U room on Friday January 26, at 4:30p.m. * * * *

CONCORDIENSIS, Tuesday, January .?3, 1973 FuH Consideration The tenure revision proposal now before the College community is not a product of divine inspiration. It is rather the work of very fallible people who decided that something had to be done in order to keep gifted faculty here while preserving long-term curricular flexibility for the College. As such, we urge that students and faculty support the principle of this plan, for it strikes us as the most efficacious path to follow. It is equally important, however, that changes of this basic nature not be promulgated through simple passive acceptance. There should be full consideration of the details of the plan, and certain revisions might be deemed desirable. As Provost Wil·lard F. Enteman has indicated, the contractual scheme submitted to the Trustees last \\ cck is by no means a perfected instument. There is much work yet to be done, but this should be done in a s-pirit of free exchange, a willingness to listen to divergent viewpoints. Only through active involvement in the formulation and ratification of a plan can the College community gain a real understanding of what is happening. Present knowledge should sen·e to minimize future conflicts, and in that way the best interests of Union will truly be realized. To this end, the pages of Concordierisis are open to communal debate on ail aspects of this, the most important issue Union now faces. p.b., g.s.b., r.a.m., a.m.r. Lyndon Johnson Usually it is a matter of years or even decades before history finally settles on a label or a category for the more prominent men of the past era. We all know (or have decided), that Churchill was a \great man,\ Neville Chamberlain \sold out,\ De Gaulle was a \great statesman,\ and so on. Lyndon Johnson died yesterday. His achievements in the area of Civil Rights, and his tragic role in the escalation of the war in Viet-Nam are the things which leap immediately to mind in any attempt at evaluating his Presidency. However, I think it would be prudent to avoid latching on to the easiest and most common evaluations of his Presidency. . But I think it would be fair to say that any President whose I behavior and actions were so shaped and influenced by the world events and the times in which he lived, a President who seems to us now like a \pitiful helpless giant\ in the face. of overwhelming historical forces cannot he considered a great man. Lyndon Johnson was intelligent, at times courageou~. and the classic model of Congressional leadership abilitie::.. But we reM.:ne the titk ol '\great man\ for those vi'ho shape events. rather than those who arc shaped hy them. A great man is someone who can tram.cend and overcome sC'emingly oYer\\ helming historical forces. L) ndon John:son. like a character in a Greek tragedy. \Hts p()werless to L:hange or sway the forces that determined the direction of his Presidencv and affected the lives of so many other people. That. ess~ntially, is what makes the wl:!olc thing so tragic. t.c. The passage nf time tends to .smooth the bitterness of the moment. Such is the ca::.c \\hen one looks back on the Presidenc\ ot Lyndon John~on. We remt.:mber President Johnson.- in death, as a pcrst·m who tried to do what he thought was best for all the people of this nation; his appeal was not addressed exclusi\\dy to any 'silent majority.' Unfortunately, the tragedy of Vietnam overshadowed and eventually extinguished the hopes for a \Great Society.\ Vietnam, in part, was a reflection of Johnson faults, but at least in the domestic arena his intentions were good. It is important that we remember his goals, particularly at a time when the incumbent President seems to be rejecting the concept social equality. p.b. CONCORDIENSIS founded at Union College in 1877 Editor-in-Chief ........................ George Bain News Editor ............................. Tim Cain Managing Editors .................... Rita Morandi Dave Strom Features Editor ......................•... AI J<eisch Sports Editor ..................... Bruce Batc'helder Photo Editors .......................... Les Kernan Jeff Wejlburg Business Manager ................. Michael J. Hurley National Advertising .................. Stephen Kelly Subscriptions ....................... Mike Bernstein Contributing Editors ............... Peter Bickerman Louis S. Snitkoff Conmrdiensi~ j, !'tlnlkh~d ,.,,.1\1 luc•,d,tl a11d lnd.r1 durin).! t·lw \·h ~\c'c'pt Ulll\llt).! ~\.lllllllalhlll and lac·;ltl<\lll pL·ri,•<b h~ the· 'lll<knt \''\~<>I lllhlll (\nllt•l!l' ~t.ht>lll'L'l,llh. 'l '.1\HHlal .lthl.'lll..,lll!! ll'fliL''l'lll,tll\\,'. '\lldrJ.tl I dUL';I(It>ll<il \d1 e1t1\11~ ~~II 1c·c·. Inc ( ·,,fk~c· l'llhlt,ltc·l, Repl<\'<'llt.ill\~. \;, 1 u, 1 n,rl 1 dtic·, 1 u.,n 01 I \dlc'rll,lll!! 'oc'l' IL'c·. llh. ') t I dn••11.d Ott~e·c. ~l~d (i 1 m. l'n1<111 (\<~lie~<' l'llhiiL\.tll<>ll 0111<'<'. lit<• .lc'\\h \\nl'id l'uhiK·.u\'ll'. ' I StalL' Street. ~rhc·nLTt.tdl. \; i 1~107 .. 141•·21~1•. lnt,·r,•d 111 the· ~dl_rn<•c·t.llil pcht <lil.t<·~ a' !'wrnnd C\l.t\ '1.1.ul \1.111L\I ~llh,cllpi•I<HJ )I L\L'I\1' .t '''P' ~X .1 ,, . .,1 dd11crcd an~ \\her,• 111 th~ l lllt~d \tal<''· , lle;rdhne lor .dlrop1. \\htch 1111\1 lw 1\ prd .11td d<Hihk-'l'·\'·d. I' I' Ill <HI \Annd;ll and lhtll\'d\' at tlw Concord) oiiiL'c'. olh'\'' Old C\h.tpc·l ()!Ill'~ tdcpflnn~ 111ll11hc•l I' .17fl.(lf~). hut the• tliiiL'L' I' ollil\ Ill lht' olll \1<111da.l and 1 hur ... d.t\ lliJ.!hh J 111 .111 ~.:dttnr!.tl m.lth,'l\. l-,;111 thl· L'lhl,u-tn-dltL'I .tt l~\. 1640. IM rntnrmatum rail '>tudrnl ·\ctllltle; Oilll'L' <tt 1'0-C•IIK A .Humorous· Piece Wherein .. An Old Throat Gets Nestalgic by CHUCK SABA IT Once upon a time at Union College a throat was someone who did all -of his reading thoroughly, attended every class. finished papers by midnight on the night before they were due, and could he caught reading on a Saturday night. :\ov.aday,, however, when the old values arc disintegrating in the midst of social upheaval, a throat is an elusive creature who defies identification. Indeed, today's freshman studies so intensely that it is difficult to distinguish the throat from the rest of the student body. In the olden days, say 1969, Political Science majors never studied in the library and nen:r, ever, outlined their, reading. We were gentlemen then, and had regard for social norms which dictated that Shaffer was the domain of the Pre-med. In more recent times freshmen Political Science majors have shown nothing but contempt for the old order a~ they have taken to the library in large numbers. One can s.ee them throughout the library anxiously deciphering their Robert Dahl Poli. Sci. primers and taking notes on it all as if it is something to be learned. Furthermore, statiStics have shown that students bearing 'conceptual frameworks pass through the library doors almost as frequently as students who carry slide rules. Freshmen have released throat energy in other courses as well. In one History course. three freshmen submitted their papers on January 19 although the papers are not due until March 5. Letter To the Editor: The Student Life Committee '':ishes to announce its fir!.t official and genuine accomplishment thi~ year the expansion of lihrar~ hour~ on Sundays (no\\ open at noon instead of ~ p.m.). \\'e're no\~ pushing for things like enclosed lounges in Fox and Davidson (they may appear thi~ spring). more \ endin,ll machine~. a ne\\ and improved and useful Student Handbook, and ~toragc facilities for the ~ummcr vacation. If anyone has suggestions we \!iould real!) appreciate them. Our mailbox i!. in the Student Activities Office. Student Life Committee Merry Four years ago this would hm-c enrollment in your classes would been condemned as academic be absent hy the second week of infil!lelity and the transgressors the term. Things being relative, would have been subject to ari honest throat was assured of severe ostracism by their peers. at least a \B\ just hy showing up -In those days, even the throats for class. Today, fre~hmen are so would have been just silting rudely conscientious about class down to type their papers on. the attend<!'nce that- old throats arc evening of March 4, while the checking carefully for rust in gentlemen at Union would ha\'e -their own armor. begun thinking about it at Worse! The holy sanctuary of midnight. The only exception to aU throats, the. all-night study this practice might have been a- room, ·has become crowded on perception exercise for Poli. Sci. Sati:t<day nights. Peace is no 10, in which case a genpeman longer to be found in. the rear would have begun the aHa~k chamber of the Library on early on the morning -of the day weekends. In days gone by, a before the assignment was due. throat who really knew his In contempora·ry times, freshmen business could secure sole Political Science students arc occupancy of the all~nigh:t study aetually writing several drafts of room by 8 o'clock on a Saturday their essays and are evet1 night. These days he considers checking for spelling errors. himself fortunate to have enough There is even more evidence or silence or to find a place to sit moral decay. ln another History down in which to fulfill his course a short analytical essay appointed responsibility. had been assigned on Tuesday, That the freshmen study more January 17 for sub.rnission on vigorously and that more Friday, January 26. Within three freshmen are throats, at least by days, on Friday, Ja·nuary 20, two the old standards, is clear. Some freshmen had completed writing believe that it is the declining job it and a third was seen in the all- market which has caused all of night study room working on this, while analyists who are on page four -of his papec One of top of the situation aver that the the freshmen offered: a -most pressure for law school audacious excuse . : fo·r h-i.s admissions is the direct cause. Or unseemly behavior by saying that maybe none of it is actually true; he has another paper due on the and it is really the hysterical same date.. \So what,\ would accusations of old throats who have cried a gentleman of long for simpler days or who arc Union's past. \Weekends are for beginning to fade away. today; papers are for tomorrow.\ • • • • • • As if all of this is not enough The Hillel Oneg Shabbat of an affront to the traditions of will begin at 4:30 p.m. (sharp) our college, freshmen arc in Room 202 of the Arts noticeably and consistently Building, this friday, January present in all of their classes. 26 . All those (you need not be They rarely cut. Former Jewish) who wish to attend gentlemen and even wicked but have not as yet informed throats would ask, \where is their Hillel are · asked to contact ''Outhfulness'! Have the'' grown J .J Paul Ebin at :n0-51·96 or old ~o soon?\ There wa:; a tirne Marcy Scl:r wartz in 312 West when you could he ~ure thai a immediately. significant proportion of the • • • • .. Films on Campus No Exit- A lilm \crsion ot tl1c Sartn: play. Stars Rita Gam and V i v e c a I. in d for s. T h rc c characters find themselves in a Victorian room of hell. There arc none of the traditional internal terrors. hut they come to learn that worse is their late. for hell is the. \impossible roundabout\ of their relationship. Wednesday. January 24. 2:30; Friday, January 26. 3:00 & S:OO p.ll). SS 016 No admission. The Masque of the Red Death - One of Roger Corman's free adaptations of a Poe short story. This is Corman's most admired and indeed most effective film. Particular notice has been made of the color in the masked ball sequence. Stars Vincent Price and Jane Asher. Wednesday, January 24, 7:00 & 9:00 p.m. SS 016 Film Haps. Admission $1.00. · THX1138. Considered one of the best science fiction films in society in which sex is prohibited and man is ruled by robots. Well- edited and stunningly photographed. Stars Robert Duvall and Donald Pleasance. Saturday & Sunday. January 26 & 27. 7:00, 9:00, & II :00 p.m. Film Haps. Admission $1 .00. The Lone Ranger The Masked Man must pit his strength against that of an Indian Chief in order to save the life of a kidnapped girl. and then expose an outlaw band which had·set up the kidnapping in order to prevent the Indians from getting the silver discovered on Indian lands. With Clayton. Moore, Jay Silverheels. January 27, SS 016 3:45. No Admission. Continued trom Page 1 Curtis Amy, Billy Preston, Carole King, and the 26-voicc James Cleveland church choir. Merry tries through this album to bring the excitement she generates in concert to a studio recording. The latest boost for Mer\ry is the success of the \new\ album version of the opera Tommy, on which she soulfully sings the role ol the \Acid Queen.\ . years. It concerns a futuristic Exterminating Angel - The topologically strange world of film-maker Luis Bunuel. A group is inexplicably restrained in a house. Frequently cited as a modern classic. Monday, January 28, 2:30 p.m. SS 016. Lab fee course. Comedian Robert Klein is a New Yorker who bases most of' his material on growing up and living in such an area. He has been ·received with substantial enthusiasm among college-aged audiences. Urgently Needed! Married couples to· babysit part/full time. Permanent live in situations available for this semester. Work as much as you want. Call University Family Services Inc. (Agency) 456-0998 Levrs • Dave's Mens Shop 4S3 State St. . (downtown Schencctaqy) ~~~t.O'><Q><Q>1 FOR LIQUOR .· AND WINE . Try § § Jake i Lipstein 's ~ 464 State Street ~ ~ FR4-1888 <\ b,.q.t.(/>'-f/'\l<.Q•<..{/><Q>IQ><.Q><Q>~\' PROCTOR'S ]~i-~~ STATE ST., SCHENECTAD,Y ~j~jt;:;:;:;:;::~:::::;:~:§:~:;:;:::~;;:;:;:;:~;:;:;:::::::;;:;:;:;:;~:;:ll~!!i ~~:;: Jan. 17-Jan. 25 :;~:; l~~~~:w 00 DSTOC Kill~lj •.•.•. ······ ~~~t:::::::::::::::::;:::::::::::::;:::::::::::::;::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::ftl COMING Jan. 23-Feb. 8 Walt Oi:1ne:r's Cla~\·it Sword in the Stone and The Silver Fox and Mr. Davenport \ 134 n Paquet H.S. ir his fi.r: wrestlit Fres.l romE wrestle lb. we 158 pc WRl Tue5 feat uri Tue.~ WiUiar Wed Union Wee AI burr and th Tl:m Board 10:30 Cafe. Ren and E days Sunda Fre( lecture: 5th le< the \1 April Kozol 1973.\ Stuc purchl will e1 one 01 non-st lectun availa Office D (d I yc o.t th of je· Lt cc wl tli lc Gl Nl M r- 1 1 I r: I s I F I N I s .I I c I s I \' I t.:

\' 3 CONCORD!ENSIS, Tuesdar, .lmiuarr 13, /973 . . - ' . . Wrestling Dance students and others: Saturday. January 27. at g:OO P.M. in the Unitarian Society on Wendell Avenue (one block !rom campus), Leonard Bernstein\ Kaddish will be interpreted through poetry and modern dance. The '\'ork is n.:ry mo\ ing and beautifully dancud. Continued fromPage4 134 lb. spot will be Andorc Paquette, a 'product of Colonie H.S. il'l'Colonie, N.Y. lt will be his fi.rst appearance in cullcge wrestling. Freshmen Scott Media .and rom Everett will correspondi·ngly wrestle in the 142 lb. and the 150 lb. weight Classes, followed by 158 pounder Jeff White. Senior WRUC PROGRAM NOTES Tuesday 9-W p.m. Live Talent, featuring Tom Pari~:;i. Tuesday 12-2 a.m. Dave Williams ''Showtunes.\ We<Jnesday 7:45 - completion Union vs. Williams Basketball. Wednesday, afJer the game. -. Album Preview features .. Derek and the Dominoes In Concert.\ Thursday the \WRUC Ride Board'' sometime between 10 & 10:30 p.m. during Smokey Joe's Cafe. Remember five minutes of local and Earth News at 6 p.m. seven days a week, and at 10 p.m. Sunday-ThuTsday. Freedom Forum has two lectures remaining: the \February 5th lecture by Jorgen Randers on the \Limits of Growth\ and the April 2nd lecture by Jonathan K ozol on \Crisis in the Schools- 1973.\ Students at Union College may purchase tickets for $2. which will entitle them to attend either one or both lectures. The rate for non-students for these two lectures is $4. Tickets · will be available at the Special Programs Office in Wells House. wtAi Dave's Mens Shop 453 State St. (downtown Schenectady) LOWEST YOUTH FARES TO EUROPE of any scheduled airline Icelandic Airlines offers you lower fares than any other scheduled airline from the United States to the heart of western Europe. You fly daily scheduled jets from New York to Luxembourg for convenient connections to most every- where on the continent. You save money any tlinf! of the year when you fly Icelandic. GEf DETAILS ON OUR FARES NOW. See your travel agent. Mail cou p.on. r------------,. I To: lc~landic Airlines CN 1 I 630 Ftfth Ave .. N.Y •. N.V.10020 I (212) PL 7·8585 I Send folder CN on Lowest Youth I I Fare~ to Europe 0 j I Name I I Street I .I I I City I I State Zip I :I My travel agent is I I . I 'l ____________ :J ICELANDIC ·Gary Gurney, with an overall record of 3 wins and 2 losses, will grapple in the 157 lb. division. Sophomore Dave Annis has apparently left the tcarn. lea vihg a void in the 177 lh. class. The now. 190 pounder. Cn:g Lyons. will attempt to go down to 177 lhs .. thus leaving his former class open. ·Appearing finally in 'the heavyweight cl:ass will he \Champ\ Howard Benedict. who has been injured since the Christmas vacation. * * * *- . The Union College Christian fellowship will be meeting on Friday, Jan. 26. at 9:00 P.M. in Hale House Lounge. Our guc~t speaker, the Rev. Peter Letchford from the Loudonville Community Church, win he speaking on the topic. \Jesu~ Christ as Lord and Savior.\ All The .possibilitt· has a-risen that J are welcome. Benedict may have to meet Estin from Dartmouth. Last year. the \Champ\ decisioned.him 1-0. Coach Everling knows that this meet will present his young team with their-- stiffcs.t competition of the year. He also knows that they must win in order for the Garnet spirit to stay relatively high. . Considering the situation, one win tomorrow would s.erve as a sufficient catalyst und would at !'east temporari-ly ease the deplorable wrestling outlook. * * * * Anyone interested in the possibilities of masticating at Kappa Alpha thi:; term please contact Richmond 110. * * * * The Jewish Student Union at Skidmore College is sponsoring a party this Sat. night, Jan. 27th, at 8:30 P.M. The festivities will be held in Barret Center, on the new campus. Refreshments \\ill be served. We hope you'll be able to make it. See you there! * * * * Housing Board Continued from Page 1 separate}, 2) strengthen the now inadequate decision-making and execution system that the Housing Office attempts to comply with, and most importantly, 3) give students actual input into this residencs process that so vitally affects their lives. Problems other than standard ones could be brought to the board in three ways: I ) by an; board member, 2) hy an R.A. or fraternity president, or 3) h; petition from any student. The hoard would then call a meeting •••••••••••••••• 5 JAY 5 : Billiard : : Lounge : I 167 Jay St. : • --RELAX- R II Ill • PLAY POOL II II • 11 Daily 10-10 p.m. II Ill Sunday 2-8 p.m. I ••••••••••••••• within the next week to handle the problem. Ad Hoc Committee members Laura Greene and Woody Lauer both feel that Dean Beam and Dean Malloy seem to be in favor of the proposal and in fact, the decision will be made tomoiTO\\ (Wed.) afternoon. If their feelings are indeed correct, Union College students may soon see the day of participat.ion in campus housing policies. This should mean smoother r.eception for future housing decisions. The days of hairdriers in South. men in North. and even co-ed room>. may not he too far in the fut urc ... ~~ t Pur.ity Isabella's ~ld\ jl&'rit &, \SJ PHARMACY, INC- }' Accuracy ~ 527 Union St. § Schenectady N.Y. ~ Ph. 370-2300 § WELCOME § ~ UNION STUDENTS ~ ~~..q.~c.Q><Q><-0 Moffett's Liquor Store 1505 VanVranken Ave. Schenectady, New York 12308 -- ADQ TO YOUR EDUCATION- - LEARN MORE ABOUT WINES- Join,Our WINE TASTINU CLUB No Admissions Charge - No Requirement.\ Each morilh 11e ~elect a different \\inc to he tc,tcd. I here'\ a card UL''crihmg the \\ine in great detail ~o y c>U can learn ahout it. On thi' card then: j, a picture of the lahcl so you can rclilemher the ·\\inc in the· luturc In imprc\ ~our date \\hen you dine out or l>impl~ \\ant a g()c>d hottlc ol. \\inc. See Stereo Bargains At Art's Sales and Service In the Proctor's Arcade SYMPHONIC AM .. FM 8 Tr Deck Turntable With Stand reg. 215.95 $1899 5 SYMPHONIC Portable Stereo with Tape Inputs reg. $135.95 $6495 Reliahle ser,·ice on all makes at1d model stereos and te/e\'ision.\·. 370-3680 I BLITHER 'I he Baroque chamber enscmhle I MllSICI di Roma will perform in Memorial Chapel rhursdav. Jan. 25. g:30 p.m. Union .students admitted fFec upon showing their I D cards. * *· * If you have any gripes concerning the library or suggestions for its improvement. plea!it contact: Kathy MitchelL l 07 North. 370-2493: Tom Cnnlev. 257 Davidson. 277-4936; (leofr' Tayln,r. 109 South .. 346- 9396. * -* * * The Security Office still maintains the campus Lost and Found and has a collection of sneakers, watches,. books, and other sundries, which may be claimed upon proper identification. * * *' * WELCOME! You are cordially invited to attend Christian Science Organi?ation meetings every Tuesday night a.t 7:00p.m. in Hu. 018. The meetings include Bible readings and Testimonies of the use of Christian Science in evervdav activities. This week's to pi~ is ·drugs.' Won't you join us? * * * * General skating begins this weekend at the Girling Center on Saturday from I to 9 p.m., and on Sunday from I to 9 p.m. For further information, call Mrs. Marra at 370-6118. * * * * Any meditators need iHg checking please call Jeff. at :no- 5855. or Alan, at 370-4302, for an appointment. * * * * Frosh Hoop Contin'ued from Page 4 using both his regulars and suh~ in numerous combinations. all of \\ h i~.:h seemed to he effective. Of special note ,\as the tandem of Mark Gla1er and Mark Gillum. Gillum. who ended up with 17 points. scored mostly on steals and on some beautiful feeds from Gla1er. Abo. the newest freshman player. Dave Mallowich, who transferred !rom Penn State recently, had a good night, and will definitely help make up for the loss of Joel Fisher. When the final huner mercifully sounded, the Garnet had \Non their sixth straight gam<.:, and had rnn ed the poor performance against Amherst to he a fluke. Scanlon will take his sho'' on the road Wednesda; night. as the Williams spectator~ will get their chance to view the next performance of the freshmen hoop Sl} uad. Monday 29th, Bake Sale in Hale House, to raise funds t ur medical aid to Indochina. Plea~~: come, bring what you have made and buy too! To make this a success we need EVERYBODY'S HELP: -- Bake whatever you can. bread. brownies, pastries. pies. cakes. cook:ies, grenola. fudge. or whatever the heart dt:sires and the stomach yearns for! Bring them to Hale House on Monday for the sale starting at 10 A.M. Yot' haw the ~Ahole week-end before hand. so )!ood luck, anu ......... ,.,Ju f\ll •..• r help. Please contac,_t Ann Bowley. Box 509, Richmond, for further information. Tel. 346-9545. * * * * On Thurs. Jan. 25, there will be a meeting in l\:ott Memorial Theater for all people interested in participating in this term's productions: The Marowitz Hamlet and Moonchildren. Much help is needed in such areas as set con,;truction, costumes, box office, publicity, lighting, and props. No experience is necessary to help in any of these, so feel free to come over to share and learn with us. Swimming Continued from Page 4 the 200-yard freestyle (2:04.5) and 100-yard free (:54.8); Co- capt. Alex Bodenstab in the 50- yard free (:24.5) and the 200-yard breast (2:41.1 ); Sophomores Bruce Eggleston and Tom Burbank also sported good showings in the 500-yard free and 200-yard breast. Newcomer Tom Richardson took a 2:23.5 in the 200-yard backstroke event and a 2:20,4 iR the 200-yard Individual medley to place first and add five points to Union's 22-12 score after four events. ln diving, seasoned Bob Field hroke both his pool records <.,<.:\ last year, scoring a 160.70 in till.! required diving, two full pt}J!lts over his 158.00 last ~C<Nlll. In the optionals. hdd plact:d first v, ith a 192.60. also a lle\\ P<>ol record. Union, 110\\ 1-0. · meets the tough Engineer.., of RPl tomorro~A in its ~ectmd meet ol the season. The (iarnet i~ 5-g-1 in the series begun in 1959. v.ith RPI winning la~t :.ear 76-37. Action starts at 3.30 p.m. m Union's Foote Memorial Pool. Dave's Mens Shop 453 State St. (downtown Schenectady) BOULEVARD BOWL 1315 Erie Blvd. 40 AMF BOWLING LANES 374-4171 Bowl for Health CAMPUS INTERVIEWS School of Management Rennselaer Polytechnic ·Institute A representative of Rensselaer will he on the Uni·on College campus on MONDAY. JANUARY 29 to speak to students (men and \\omen) interested in graduate degree programs in: • Private (lndustrial) Management • Public Management • Management Engineeting • Operation\ Research and Statistics Make appointments at College Placement Oflicc

4 Tuesday, January .?3, /97 3 B 'ball Bounces · W.esley~n 61-·51; RecOrd at 5-4 by MARK W. MINDEL and THOMAS J. KERTON Reaping benefits from its tough pressing defense in the last five minutes, the Union College basketball team cracked open a .close contest to defeat Wesleyan 66-51 Saturday night to raise its record to 54. lt was the third straight game that Union · has held its opponent under 55 points, and the fifth game of t.hc year the defense has given up under 60 points. With the score tied 46-46 at 5:33 Mike Doyle converted a .pair of free throws to open up a two point lead. The defense then Went to work, utilizing a full court press, and forced two consecutive turnovers. Tom Bacher came 'up with the first steal and hit Doyle underneath for a 50-46 lead at 5:19. Then Geoff Walker converted an errant Wesleyan inbounds pass into ·a · Union bucket for a quick six point lead, 52-46 at 5: II. Wesleyan sandwiched a basket and foul shot around two inorc Doyle free throws, but Tom Combs, in for Bacher, drove for two at 2:45 to open the lead to seven, 56-49. Wesleyan answered with a Brad Rogers' tip-in to close within five, but then Union showed some class. Freezing the ball for over 50 seconds, Union broke the Cardinals' back- when John Denio broke open underneath and his subsequent lay• up at I :0 J was called good because . of goa !tending. U nioil then pumelled Wesleyan's poor press with seven more points in the final minute, while shutting out the Cardinals, to pull away. The final score did not typify the game. Union led only 23-22 at the half. Wesleyan scored the last five points of the half in the last four minutes. One came on another technical, ·this one slapped on Walker with under a minute left. Walker and Chuck Abba reopened the lead to five in the first 50 seconds of the last half. the latter scoring on a goaltending call. Three foul shots, two by Walker and one by Denio, opened the lead to six, 30- 24 with 18:16 on the clock. The Cardinals, however, came back with three consecutive hoops to knot the score at 30 apiece with 16:13 left. Abba and Doyle scored two-pointers to open a four point margin, but Wesleyan answered twice for a 34-34 tie at 13:20. Over the next seven and a half minutes Union and Wesleyan traded 24 points, basket for · basket, with the G.·<~rnet scoring coming on three lJ~/Jef Bacher jumpers, ·two Walker swishers, !jnd a Denio bucket. Union and Wesleyan were tied seven straight times during this stretch, and eight times all together in the final half, the last being 46 all. which set up Union's stretch drive. The g~me marked the first rebound battle with 12 and 10 start for freshman John Denio, apiece. who played most of the game at Union's next game 1s one guard position, and scored Wednesday at Williams, for its seven points. Denio; who had final contest against the \Little seen srioradic action. before, Three,\ (including Amherst and contributed to Union's smoothest Wesleyan). Last season, Union offensive baHhandling of the beat aU three, Williams at home. year, the Dutchmen turning the · Last year's Union Williams game ball over ·only nine times (a featured the hot battle between season low) white forcing 24 Vern Manley of William and Cardinal errors. Union's Jimmy Tcdisco. With · Weleyan out-rebounded· both gone, the emphasis shifts to Union, 44-36 and outpereentaged the forecourt, and the hustling the Outchmen from the field 45o/c. frontline of Mike Doyle, Geoff to 39%. Union's defense, Walker, and Tom Bacher. however, kept· the Cardinals Union's defense is averaging attemMs to a .minimum, Union just over 60 points per contest, out shooting· Cardinals, (27 of and has given up only 49.9 points 69) to (23 of only 51); per contest in its last three starts. Walker led Union scoring with Box score: 18 points, 13 in the last half, while Bacher had L 4, A bba-12, . and Doyle-10 (8 in the final half). Combs added four down the .stretch. Doyle and Bacher .Jed the wesl'on Rogers Folrb'ther Burton Ray111ond Abrevcya ••• Union G F T 9 2 20 Doyte l 1 3 Bacher 4 2 10 Walker 5 0 10 Abba .4 0 8 Denio . Combs G FT 3 ~ 10 7 0 14 7 4 19 6 0 12 3 1 7 1 2 4 Totals :13 5 51 . Totals 27\1 65 Tom Bacher dril·esfor .\'~ t~f'his 14 poinh. photo hy Bill Erichson Mermen at 1-0 by PJ Union's varsity swim sl(uad opened their season this last Wednesday, sinking the Great Danes of Albany State 63-50. Coached by Bob McMurray and captain'd by seniors Alex Bodenstab, Bruce Goldberg and Mark Shulman, the Gamet captured eight of thirteen events in a very close meet. While the Mermen remained in the lead throughout the contest, the Union bench became tense with the disqualification of its swimmers in the 200-yard Individual medley and 100-yard freestyle. But with good showings in .the optional diving and final events, Union pulled through with more than enough points to trounce the Danes, co-captained by Marc Eson and Len' Van Ryn. Union saw good tirues for the opening meet by Tom Hough in Continued on Page 3 Levfs Dave's\ Mens Shop 453 State St. (downtown Schenectady) FIVE ROOMS AVA'ILABL~ FOR PARTtES;AND BAN'Q.UE'TS RESEARCH MATERIAlS .. . . Featuring Italian-American Cuisine mot~el' :lerro ~ Re6ta~ranl 1 11 5 BARRETT STREET SCHENECTADY, N.Y. FREE PARKING Tel 01,~·9554 or FR7-2642 OPEN 7 DAYS A WEEK Favored By The llnion A th.letic Teams! All Topics Send for your~descriptive, up.·to-date, 128-page, mail order cafal()g of 2,300 qualitY research papers. Enclose $1.00 to cover .postage and handling. RESEARCH UNLIMITED 519 GLENROCK AVE., SUITE 203 LOS ANGELES, CALIF. 90024 (213) 477·8474 • 477·5493 \We need a local swlesman\ Mark Gillum, .1\'ho ledfre.~lunen .\·{·oren with 17 point\· in Saturday's win 0\'er the Wes/eyanfrO\'h. 'The GarnP! yearlings are now 6-0; despite rhe fms of' two ker players earlier this .'Wd.wn. . · photo hy Bill Erichson Freshmen Blast Cardinals, 88- 51 by BILLY the KID and LITTLE LEE For those people wlio unfortunately Weren't able to catch 'the latest edition of the Scanlon Show last SatJirday night, aU thai can be said is that they missed a performance that merited more than one standing ovation. Using the same script as usual, the freshman basketball team dazzled Wesleyan on the way to an 88-51 romp. The visiting Cardinals were only close during the opening minutes, as they trailed 6-4. But, during the next four minutes, Union tallied nine unanswered points, and after eight minutes of play, the Garnet led 28-9. As usual. the .starting lineup of John Raymond:; Bill ··coppula, Ray Marcinowski, Steve Kelly, and Bill Henson were nearly flawless in every phase of the game, and because of that found themselves on the bench after the first ten minutes of the game. Marcinowski had the early hot hand, as he scored eleven of the first fifteen Garnet points, most of the baskets coming from in close off of excellent assist passf;!s. By halftime, everyb<:>dy had seen action and the Garnet maintained 'a comfortable 37w22 advantage. - - ) - In the second half, the freshmen continued to pour it on, partly because. of their overall prowess and p~rtly because. of the inept play on the part of Wesleyan. For the most part, Scanlon nin a . shuttle system, Continued on Page 3 Benedict Is Back by FRANCESCO ISGRO Determined to win their first dual meet of the season, the Union grapplers will travel to Springfield College .tomorrow after!10on. Attempting to keep the. Garnet's . streak going one-/ way will be powerftil Springfield, Cortland State University and Dartmouth College. Team captain Mark Zullo, wrestling in the I 18 lb. weight class and teammate Bruce Freeman, grappling in the 126 lb. class, will attempt to keep their unblemished records alive. Including the Albany Tournament, they both have individual records of 5 wins against no losses. Replacing injured Larry Dagostino in the Continued on Page 3 I Brothers Ill t I I ) WEEKLY SPECIALS •· LUNCHEON SPECIAL 'Alb. R-(Jast Beef ~andwich. W/french fries & a draught $1.25 (other sandwiches available) beer Wed: 9-11 p:m. Reduced Draught prices Thurs: Wine & Cheese night A Plate of Cheese & Crackers & a glass of Wine $1.00 Fri: 4-8 p.m. Our Sour Hour . 50¢ drink prices · • . .. In addition Folksingers will be featured on weekends. This week Fri. night till I :30 A.M. Cheese & peanuts availah/e at all linu'.\'. ..... . I ~~ (I 1}) IJ fl 0 IJJ, Q

l! II ·II 0 founded·at' Un-ion College in·J877 . V.9l. 1.02, No .. 25 . Marx States Need For· Relevance by MITCH WEIS'BURGH In the past few years. students at many colleges and universititcs have been complaining of .the lack of relevance of- their courses. It seems that the primary ,purpose of various disciplines has 'been solely t·he promotion of the study .of th~lt branch of knowledge; raiher than incorporating themselves into a vast scheme dealing with the major obstacles facing ma·nkind. the government and the national ideology. The outermost circle, which as been citllc,d the \System:· the \Machine and the \Military- lndulitrial ('ompiex.\ has caused education to be shaped by the demands of industry. the bl!reaucracy. and the eco,nomy. The reqtJirements for jobs and graduate schools comprise the greater part of the college cU;rriculum. T.his has resulted in the specialization of disciplines - to no other purpose, than for the advancement of that par.tlcular vocation. says Dr. Marx. Because this way of d:iviuing up the World (the disciplines) does not conform to Reality, what seert1sto be needed are formats for interdisciplinary studies. Continued on Page 2 Friday,. January 26, 1973 20 cents Shugoll Quits, Miller New Social Chaii·man by JUDY DEfN In .aA effort to innJhe mor-. student& in the planning. of thi~ term's crltertainmcnt. the Social Committee held its second open meeting on Tuesday. January 22. in the Ha.Ie House Lounge. Peggy Miller was named the nc\\ Chairman, following the resignation ol Mark Shugoll. Mark will rema~in as an ad\i:,;or for the committee. hut will not determine its pulicie:,; .. A large part of the meeting was devoted to whether · the Social Cotnmitt ec would sponsor one big concert featuring a well-known group, or several concerts starring \up-and- coming\ talenL The argument for the large concert was that hopefully more students would attend and enjoy it. One group being seriously considered Is Loggins and Messina. The committee is financially limited in 'their choice of acts. , M o,ney is allocated .:ach year by the Tax Committee. Also, some popular groups. do not want to play in only a 1000 seilt hall, which is the maximum capacity of Memorial Chapel. Many acts on tour do not include Schenectady as an important stopping place. Conseyuently it was mentioned that suggestions for such popular groUps as the Gralefurbead {lte impractical. The Social Committee is a non- profit organization. It has been, calculated that it can afford to lose approximately $8000 this term. toggins and Messina cost $10,0()0 for two co•ncerts. excluding agents' fees, payment ·for sound Clfllipment. and security, among ~ther things. The loss w0uld reduc~· the number of social committee activities made available to studer'Hs this term. Most stud<~nts at the meeting felt that the·· wouiJ rather ha·\c ' . se\ era! concerts. When deciding upon which pe.rformers to engage, the committee mem hers read trade papers. ask ~he o.pinion of people who have ~ceri the performers i·n conc~:rt. and listen to their records. The College Entertainment Association hooks the acts, since m0st performers \.\-ou'ld rather deal with a reputable organization than an individual school. The committee prides itself ofl choosing those performers who are \on the way up.\ Two years ago Poco, Sha-na-na, · Livings.ton Taylor, and Seatrain played at Union before they became so popular. Last year the committee sponsored J. Geils and the Mahavishnu Orchestra, and this year the performers have included Dave Mason, Taj Mahal, and Leo Kottke. This weekend's singer, Merry Clayton, is preceded by \excellent\ revie~A·s. Mark Shugoll noted after the meeting that he counted .only l.!i · non~committee membcr.s there. Most of these people knew a lot about music, as was shown by their suggestions of possible future perfoFmers. This small number does not represent all of the students at Union. The committee is very interested in knowing the student body's reaction to one concert as opposedto several. More students ure needed to help in the planning of future activities. This year the me'mbership has increased from the original six of eight members to 12. A new member is Paul· Martini, from the Inter- Fraternity Council. It is hoped that the fraternities will become mor~: in\ olved 111 the So~:ial Committee. Members arc appointed hy the Committee on Committees. Students apply early in the spring. term. Since membership i!-. limited, social comrnitte mcetlng~ ar~: open in the hope that that morc students will offer suggestions. Plam for a dance. an evening oJ roller skating, aml a marathon mo\ 1e program are being. considered. The Social Committee welcome:,; any ideas for new activities on campus, Suggestions should he made to Peggy Miller ( 107 North), Mari- Shugoll (110 Fox). or any other members of the committee. The committee also wants to remind students to fill out the que:,;tionnaire so that the members can plan events according to :,;uggestions made. Senate Nixes ROTC by DAVJD WAGENKNECHT On Tuesday. January 23. 1973 at 4:30 P.M. the first meeting of the College Senate for this term was called to order. The first item on the agenda was the approV<!l of the minutes of the meeting of November 29, 1972. This was quickly done. There is alsa a growing fear that. with the vast advances being made in the technological sciences. the power to d.istribute the resources and benefits available is becoming more centralized. Because of the short reaction time allowed in today's milita,ry situation. the President now has the right to make war. The massive bombing of the Vietnamese by presidential order without the consultation of Congress is ad.irect outcome of this situation. It is possible. if this situation continues, that we are . being led into totalitarianism. Research Bears on Teaching The next order of business was the consideration of certain courses previously approved and reported on by· the Curricular Affairs Committee. This involved two courses, Sociology 140E and a Rio-Political Science course; both \\ere approved by the Senate. The final, and easily the most substantive item discussed. was a motion frem a Union student that. \No more than two credits towards graduation. retro.active to September 1972, be given for Air Force ROTC courses. in the 300 and 400 levels. taken at R Pl ... This motion was responsible for extensive discussion and a certain amount of confusion. The confus~on Wds primarily caused by the fact that the motion was not so much in the interest of general policy as it was in the interests of one individual; therefore the Senate did not clearly appear to be the correct body to deal with the motion. There was also some slight confusion a~ to exactly which body would be the correct one to deal with the situation. In a talk s!)onsored by Phi Beta Kappa. Dr. Leo Marx. Professor of English and American Studies at Amherst College. related these two problems facing America. and sketched the groundwork of a means to ameliorate them. According to Dr. Marx. the specialization of disciplines and the centralizaticin of rower both descend fr9m a nebulous phenomenon: technology. Technology. as defined by Dr. Marx, can he represented by three concentric circles. The inn~r-most circle would be the most exact and limiting definition: the knowledge. skill, and equipment used for practical purposes. The middle circle offers a more encompassing definition: the types of bureaucratic organizations that administer that knowledge. etc. Finally. the mo~t vague and inclusive definition: the so·clo· political system resulting from these <;rganizations. comprising ERRATUM Merry Cl~yton and Robert Klein will appear in Memorial Chap!-!1 at 8:30 ~n Saturday night, not Friday night as erroneously stated in the last : issue of CONCORD\' .. Tickets still available. by PHIL ALCABES About thirty students and facwlty members attended the first meeting this term of the \Professor as Scholar\ scric~> in Hale House Lounge Monda) night. The intent of the lecture- dbcussion series is to explore through the experiences of Union faculty members rhe relation bctv.ecn the profes~or's role as teacher and a·s rcsearchet'. Professors Frederick Hart\\tg (political science) and .Jan Ludwig (philosophy) shared the noor. Hartwig be'gan hy summarizing the 'dtrious research endeavors in which he is involved. His overriding interest is political soeialii'ation. nwre specifically. the politics of education. He has done l\ study .' on children's toncept;ions of Lm1. They usually,. he noted, have a \highly benevolent image of Law.\ He questions from whc1'c this view comes. lcievision. he thinks. may he partially responsible for instilling opinions in children; parents and school arc certainly important influences. This bears upon another of his a,reus of research, th~lt is. the school as a politica I struct we; school districts. Hartv,ig m<tintains, arc go1ernrnents. Who makes the decisions on Prc~(essors llar!ll'ig ami l.uchl'ig di.\·ms\ their ,.,'.1earch as t.mother part cd !he continuing w'ri£'1' o( .. The Pro/~·ssor As A Scholar.\ school curriculum. hiring. and p(ilicy'! An additional field in 1vhich Hartwig works is that of research methods. J>olltiml scicntish. he claims. are \\rather unskilled in research techhiqtics.\ He is no\\ considering the de-\clopn'lcnt of a stati~tical method for mca~ming concepts. Professor Hartwig sees hi~ several areas of interest und rcsc<trch,as being interrelated. He -· photo by Les Kernan feels. moreover. that an important relationship exists hel\\een his research and teaching. Hi~ interests have led to other interests and to the developn1ent of courses. Sincc interests change. teachers and what the) teach change and arc \kept fresh.\ Course~ in turn feed . back on research. particular]) when students ask questions, Continued on Page 2 An almost unanimous decision of non-approval for the motion was finally made. This decision was based upon a number of factors. one of the most important of which was be that at a General Faculty Meeting in the spring of 69 it was decided that degree credit for ROTC courses would be eliminated. Perhaps the single most important factor for arriving at a decision of non-approval was the fact that ROTC courses arc taught hy military officers on active duty with militar~ educational goals, which do not coincide with a liberal arts college\ educational objectives. After reaching this decision. the meeting was adjourned.

',_ . Page2 CONCORDIENSIS, Friday. January 11), 1973 Letters . . . To the Edator: The ills of eating at West College were brought to our attention in a recent issue of Concordy in a rather audacious and tasteless letter from Kennct·h Tyler. The views presented \VCrc greatly exaggerated and certainly not shared by all wh<l eat a,t West, though I am yuite s-ure everyone has one or ,two gripes about the problem(s). .. But this is nor the point' of m~: Jetter: If we were startled hy Ken Tyler's .Jetter. we ha \'e been shocked by the most recent farce yet perpetrated by Saga at the West College Cafeteria. Under the system in use until Wednesday. each student eati.ng at West had a color-coded. numbered·· card·. Wh'ic;h he presented to the person at the de&k as he entered the cafeteria. The number of his card was crossed off a list each time he entered. preventing its use more than once during any one meaL Under this system, the line moved much laster than it C\cr did with the old punch..card method. Saga now seems to have decided that the punch-card method is better: the only re~son they have advanced is it would prevent the use of a meal card by more than one person. Accordingly. all ·students eating at West ne\¥ have the ineon\·enience of holding an ID card with a meal ticket attached (or \ice-versa). The meaJ ticket in some cases covers the validation on the ID; it makes everything bulkier for all. Why has this senseless system been re-introduced. not to mention its being made . more senseless'? Why is Saga annoyed that more than one person might be using one ticket'! Each CONCORDIENSIS founded at Union College in 1877 Editor·in..Chief ........................ George Bain News Editor ...................•......... Tim Cain Managing Editors ................•.•. Rita Morandi Dave Strom Features Editor ...•...................... AI Reisch Sports Editor ..................... Bruce Batchelder Photo Editors .......... .' ............... Les Kernan Jeff Weilburg Business Manager ................. Michael J. Hurley National Advertising .................. Stephen Kelly· Subscriptions ....................... Mike Bernstein Con,tributing Editors ............... Peter Dickerman Office Staff Phil Alcabcs Doug Curpcntcr Garr l.nYctt Ill\ rh; Puharich b~n Ruthblum .Louis S. Snit~<:>ff Rohin Waring Bill West Reflections It appears, at long last. that the war in Southeast Asia may be d.rawing to a close. Yet we will not rejoice ... there will be no marching in the streets. no songs of jubilation. We have marched and we have sung too long. What will this peace mean to the tens of thousands of parents whose sons will no longer be given the opportunity to return home? What will this peace mean to the tens of thousands of Americans who have divorced themselves from their home land rather than be a party to this conflict'? What will this peace mean to the hundreds of fami.lies of those prisoners of war or men missing-in-action? What will this peace mean to all those in this country who have been forced to do without because of the war effort'? What will this peace mean to all those who will never again trust their government's credibility'? Above all. what will this peace mean to two divided nations'? We think of a land defoliated and war ravaged, its people homeless and its productivity stripped. We think of a nation ravaged by years of internal conflict, a nation split in two by a war far front its borders. We think of all those whom we shall never trust again, of all those who have suffered so long to find a reason ... the reason will never be apparent, never comprehended. What can be said to those who were at the March on the Pentagon, took part in a Mbratorium, acted to .express their conscience'? What can we say to make them feel that- they have been heard? What reason has there been to this madness'? Hovv can it be explained'? And so the war appears to be drawing to a close at long last. We will not rejoice. We cannot in these events find happiness, only relief. We arc sick. and we are disgusted. amr gsb pb card ·is completely paid for in an~ case; none can be used more than once per meaL The yuestions arc open -- I d11re any person to fomard ·a valid reason for the. change. I also retJUest that we either return to the system we used until Wednesday. and make those cards transferrable. or at le<tst remove the punch-cards from our lD's and make them transferrable. Alan Crawford, II '76 ... !It* To the Editor: In your story (January 1'9) on the Race Relations Committee it was stated that the Committee has alrel!dy submitted ·a preliminary report and· that it will submit a final report at the end of t-his month. The fact is that the Committee has not yet submitted its preliminary report, but 1nt~nds to do 'so\ earl}' in February. A date for submission of a final report has not yet been determined. I am sorry that I managed to contribate to some confusion over the status of the Race Relations Committce·s work. Sincerely yours James E. Underwood, Member Race Relations Committee * • • were agreements regarding rmclcar weaponry. the eonqucst of space was agreed to be used for only peaceful goals, and rec.iprocal consulates were formed. · In the l965 ed.ition of Fortune. Johnson was described in the folln\\ing manner r:eferring to his policy on h_ig business. \In hrooad rooms Johnl!on· is not descnbcd as a hlankedv-blank Democrat. 'but as a man who gets th~ngs do.ne ... The President is clearly Scholar Continu~dfrom,Page 1 probing weak points in past rese~rch and inspiring · new ·interests. Professor Ludwig then took oYer. He began by stating t~t he docs not see qui'tc so dose a relationship between his own research and teaching. He ha~ worked on some critical papers o.n a German phii~:Jso.pher named Bitkcnstcin. He leads no seminar on the work of this man. but his tesearch on the phHosopher's writing might be consideted connected to the course Ludwig teaGhcs in ana'l,}tic philosophy. H:e is .jnterested in the To the Editor: philosophy of science. and the the man in charge of it all.\ Thh hard:Jy sounds like the definition of a man who was ~haped by hb environment. I don't believe in gl'orifying the dead, but by my standards, and by yours, L. B.J. was truly ~~ 'Great Man'. It's a shame tho.ugh, that greatness i1.1 his case as in \ many others, wasn't accor<led to him in his lifetime. Sincer.ely yours, 'Robert Gerbc:r * .... \' thus it should be read about t:lr considered, t1ot by all educated people, hut by those who an: knowledgeable. in that spcdlk field. . More importantly ludwig feel& that research need not be intended for publication. that some research; and it is equftl:lJ valid,. should be done simply for the enjoyment oflearning. After the guests had s:poken. a discussion began betW-een tbi.: two. The audience ·shortly joinc:!J in the talk. QIJestions ahmn reseatch, igs. value and m~hod:; were posed, and. hofh Professors Hart wig and . l.udwig and members of -tile group becafl1e engaged in a gh<e,and·takc discussion. Tbc session ended with opportunity for members of the audience to talk to the two professors informally. Marx Continued from Page 1 How is greatness -of men history of science. although he determined. and what values arc teaches in neither of these used to scale this greatness'? In subjects. A current project is the Tuesdays Concordy there was an compilation of a checklist of rare article that sharply criticized scientific books held in t·he LB.J. as a 'pitiful. helpless giant'; librctry of Dudley Observatory f · u · · · I nterd. isciplanary studies. Dr. it was stated that \we reserve the (part, o Uh1on . n1Vets1ty) m b Th b k Marx sUggests, shou.ld consist of title ·great man' for those who AI any. ese oo s arc I · 1 k J' • · peo.ple from different fields shape events. rather than those re at1ve Y un nown, so a 1stmg f h ld b · 1 bl interested in finding solutions to a who are shaped by them.\ With o t em wou · · e qu1te va ua c · · d b'bl\ h current problem. Theyshould meet this reasoning it must be to scientists an · 1 10grap ers. concluded that Hitler was a The last interest of Ludwig's, for 3~5 years, which would be long h . h b d' 1 enough to gain' a scholarly \great man'. ·for he shaped world and one w · 1c ears . 1rect y h · h · · approach. but not to become . events .and policies to one of the upon IS teac 1ng, 1s h . entranched as another institution. largest extents of our time. I parapsychology: \I'm teac mg a .. The group would publish papers cannot accept Hitler as a ~great spooks course. . · L d · with · v_· iewpoints from many man· because a 'great man' docs Obviously, -professor u Wig h · 11 h' fi ,..~ ·f disciplines and would offer courses 'great deeds' and a 'great deed' does not teac m a 1s · 1e ~s o has the social connotation of interest. He believes that research in the colloquium. This would help f bl . · h ld break down the harriers between goodness. The definition of a done or pu •cation s . ou · not d · h' Th the WOJ'ld and school. and would 'great man' must be further be use m teac mg. e na.tu~c .. qualified to account for the acts of such research sh~uld put tt m he~f. ~e~_t t~e threat of and goals of the individual. a somehwat esotenc area, and . tota ltarmrusm. L.B.J. \~as not a .\~itifu.l ................ ~!I~J(--JI••:• ~~~::::nsi~ 1 :~~· ~~en c/i 1 tici~~ =The Union C~llege Social C~mmittee ~ caused him to say that he was. · · ,. Johnson's humanistic goals of a .. presents a .. 'Great Society' surpassed that of IG M greatness. and his superiority in Ill Q.·. uest.ionn3ire • accomplishing these goa.ls is a M . M true sign of greatness. Some of If In order to form a more perfect Union. we would M Johnson's objectives as President If like your opinion on entertainment for Spring Term. Ill and human being were as follows: .. Please fill out this questionnaire and return it to .,. I. social and economic · Student Activities, the Library, West College, or Hale ,. equality for. all Americans M House hv WEDNESDAY, JAN. 31. Your opinion will I 2. fullemploymentforAmerica M be of great assistance to the Social M 3. a healthy economy 1M Committee. Thank you. M 4. adequate health care for all 1M Entertainment for Spring Term M Americans M Would you prefer to sec A orB: Jl 5. to close the gap opened by M M the cold war 11111 B. Three concerts of During the .Johnson 1ft A. Onelargeconcert(such moderate si/.c. good M Administration much was I as Loggins and Messina) and nuality groups (similar in Ill I. 1 d · II th 11111 one small concert. .., .. accomp IS 1e m a · esc areas: .,. idea to the last two terms). ,. due to the Vietnam issue they 1C Ill were aU but forgotten. Preceding JC o·. . 0 • Johnson~ term in office there Wl.\S It .. . · 1111 a major problem of IIIII ,., unemployernnt as there was also 1P1 .. afterwards, but while he was in M Check one, tear out, and return to Student Activities, tl office the nation reached full IC tile Library. West College. or Hale House by Wednesday, • employment. His civil rights I Jan. 31. .. legislatio~ .including housing. jo? • •·••--•••••aa•••·--······ opportunttJes. and m,any ·others. · . .. . are unprecedented. There was a rise in good health care for the aged and poor, of which medicare is an example. In 1964 there was a tax cut while the G!'lP rose to new heights Along with all these domestic advances. communication with the U.S.S.R. was widened. There Levrs Dave's· Mens Shop 453 State St. (downtown Schenectady) MAMA BIANCHI'S RESTAURA .. NT . ' PROCTOR'S ~~:-~g: . STATE ST •• SCHENECTADY_ Jan. 23-Feb. 8 Waft Disney's Classic Sword in the Stone foncordiensis ,, pu~lt,fll'd c\L•J·~ ltt<'\'·\ and ,., td.ll durin~ ihe ,,.h,>nl '<'at' <'\<'<'PI dttrttl!! n.nnumuun .tnd '·t~·•Hwn J'<'rt<>tb h~ rlw 'tudcnr· \''\~ t>l ·.[ nt<>n Coli<',!!<'. St'll~ll~<'liltf). '\ '. \a11111WI a<ilt'l'll'ill~ ll'J'I<'><'Ili;llll<'. '\aliomtl hltu:arion;tl \d1~11i-111g St'r\·lt't•. ·in.:. (',;lk~e l'uhJ,,h.:h fh·pr,•-.·ntalll~. '\utu>llitl hfnt·aiional ·\dlt'l'l-i,in!! Sen 1<'<'. In~ .. '\.,C. I dthlli\l Olliw, Oltl (i\m. l'nl!lll Ct>ll.:uc• .. f'uhlt<'ation Oll.i.:<'. l he· .l<'\''h \\ otld l'uhh~ati<>l\. 7 -f St.at.: Str.:.:t. Sch.:~ct:tad). \. Y. 12.1()'' . . l~t>-2351•. 1-lll<'i'<'d 111 tlw S.:l~t'll\'<'l.td) pnM ollie:.: \' Scmnd ('I;N Miii I \1;itl<'l'.~uh><·nplton 10 <'Cilh ;1 n>p). Sll .t ) c·ar dd11t:rcd anlllh<·rc 111 th~ { 'nitcd St:llc'. 1 1135 Barratt St. and The Silver l'ox and Mr. Davenport Deadline fnr all cnp). 1\.hicll na1'1 ,,. t)J'<'d m1d dtnlni.:·'Pil<'<'d. '' \ p.ni.A>II Monda\ nnd l'hursda1 all he Conl'otd~ uiri ... ·,•. ahn\l' Old ('h;tpd. · Offic~ tclcphunt: ntitnh~r I' ,170-1\1 5S. nil! th~ <llli.:c i' on!) Ill IIW <Ill \ltlllt.fa~ and I hursdu) nighh. For all cdiltmul matt<•r.. ··all th<' ··du,>r-m-duL'i at .N3- . 1640: ftir infornwtioncall Sltld.:nt Actiliti~s Otfil'<' ;II J\O~Mil\. . . . ' 1 .Real ltal.ian. Food Cooked _To Order We Cater To Students The Frieitdliest Place in Town tlPEH 0 -3 A.M FRI. ·~- SAT • .. • Ill

\ Thi~ by his the and <t o.ugh, as in cd to erb4;r ll!\ an.~ feel& be tha:t for a the inc:o sors dcd of Dr. me ers of ~. .. .. • • N = .. .. .. M .. .. .. .. .. .. .. = • • • • • • Cl I t '• by'MATTHEW SWARTZ. Unlike my predecessor Concordy regulars,· I intend to throw in the towellongb~fore the traditional !!nd~of-the•year issue. In fact. I've chosen to do it right now. This past week's N~w York · Times and the recent. long awaited arrival of Perspective. the Union C()ltege Slack StUdent's Alliance newspaper.. have precipitated thinking i·n an area that has tto~:tbled me for some time. P<Juriug away the supernatant. the following remains to be treated 'quanti~ or ~uali~atively. Ofcoune. as always. th(!re will he those who will n~gate me when confronted with what I have to sav. No matter. .though. This wilt he the last time I shall challenge Union College in writing. The t,ime has come to project further than the .. rne\ limits we've set for .. ourselves.. The stress of existential catatonia. apathy. if you will. is tightening around our c(lllective throats as we ignorantly bathe in the once glorious hut now dying sunof American ciYili7.atitm. wearing wet leather looped carelessly where •it can strangle. Wet leather- has an ama;r:ing capacity to shrink. slowJv. caressingly~ until. the kn~t falitening, it bectJmes a stubborn and reLentless nut which human hands cannot crack. In the end we are helpless, victims of our own design. for the only method of removal left to us is to pry and cut · wi.th a ra1.or-sharp knife. Be careful not t<J slip. Your life's breath is _just a snee1.e awav. Perspective•s· article written hv Mr. Donald Jones coupled with the series offeatures TheN ew York Times has run about the South Bronx poses the potential legacy for the Woodstock nation. We know the problems. even though not everyone can know them in the phenomenological sense. The resources. composed ofintellectual . - a,nd ·physical · werk forces and Levrs Dave's' Mens Shop 453 State St. (downtown Schenectady) RESEARCH MATERIALS All Topics . Send for your descriptive, up.to-date, 128·pagl), mail order catalog of 2,300 qua!ity research papers. Enclose $1 ;00 to cover postage. and handling. RESEARCH UNLIMITED 519 GLENROCK AVE., SUITE 203 LOS ANGELES; CALIF. 90024 (213) 477~8474 • 477-5493 \We need a local salesman\ MCAT-DAT-GRE LSAT- ATSSB NAT'l. BDS. . \\-Prgparation tor tests raqi,lired for ~dmission to !JI'aduate and profes- . slonal schools · . * Six and twelve session courses * Small groups * Voluminous material for home study prepared by experts in eacJJ field * lessoo schedule can be tailored to meetin~ividual needs. * Opportunity for review of past lessons via tape at the center Summer Sessions Special Compact Courses Weekends - I ntersessions $TANLEV H. KAPLAN I!DUCATIONAL CI!NTERLTc .. 1616 EMt16th Sutel Br<H!I!Iyn, N. V .. (21.2) 236-.· 5.300 u.· .. · ... (516) 538-4565. . . . .. DAYS. EVENINGS,WEEI<ENDS SINCE 1t38 •. ·Boston·• Phila\ .. • W.ahington • D•rrolt·• Los.Angeles • Miarril ft.• t .. ton.... Scllool111ilh lh, Nari011111ido ftept<tcl~ CON COR Df ENS IS, Frid(l)' . .!anuar.t· .?n, 1973 Pagel Untitled simple finun(ilng arc :nailablc: ye.t. we continue te> foolishlv tov with the knot. ·w~ .even ph1y in ~lo!ied systems such us thttt Which e;ll. ists <H Union College where sglutions. like impendi11g doom. are at mo!it a sneeze awav. The South Bwnx is the realization of Anthonv Burgess' 19.62. nightm:arish ~lston. A Clockwork Orange: a sociew where social deviance feeds corruption and freedom equals ana·rchy (inevitable)'. Gangs of youths roan1 the street in a modern analog of Gestapo where no one is safe from the indiscriminate crimes of vi()lcnce. Tile <:liffenmce is that the knives and chains employed hy Alex are_, .j11 the South Bronx. bazooKas (\VorM War li anti-tmtk guns). 45 caliber autQmatics and shot guns witll hair-trigger firing mechanism~. Sophisticated weaponry. I dare say. Weaponry that has bee.n responsible for 500 violent crim~ (murder. attempted · homicide. rape. and armed tobbery)arrests and a total ofl500 gang-related arrests in the past ~ear. A rate .of almost five a day. To say !hilt the problems that face the South Bronx are complex is unneces~w. Robert Moses. designer of the 1964-65 World's Fair and the ••nu,lster builder\ of New York City for the -past few decades .. says that the slums of the South ·Bronx~ Brooklyn. and Harlern cannot he rebuilt. Thev must be leveled and entirelv reconstructed. Moses should have been a surgeon. I plan o.n internal medicine an<l. consequently. feel that the diseases deteriorating inner-city communities cal). .if r.roperly <Hagnosed. be .ad ministered to and cured. One has only to hck to the People's Republic of China to be assured thatwor.kingwithmasses of people can onty be c<>nsidered an honor· and a chance to realize what humanity's potenti~l means. Our time must be allocated to the restructuring e>f priorities which have been distorted and self- orieqted by tlte .. haves\ for too many generatio.ns . Faced with four more years of Presidential decisions to impose domestic austerity on programs designed to allow the South Bronx to pick itself up by its bootstraps. the future is no future at all. Before one berievcs in the future. a sense that tomorr<Jw is really going to Urgently Needed! Marrie~ couples to babysit part/full time. Perma t.H~ nt I i·v e in· situations available for this semester. 'Work as much as you want • Call Ulliversity Family Services Inc. (Agency) . 451)-0998 happen is ma11<latorv ( A:in't Supposed to Die a N~tural Death!. As the 1970's have defiiH.:d someone. without the necessarv socially\\tccepted :sc.lf-confidenc~. identity.· if .YOU v..·iH. he has no future. He isn't hcrctndav! Masses of people from wllom S<;cictv has denied identity will slasll those leather chokers first. thev must because no one with a to~wrrow wants to die tlua:t painful and. unnatuml dea.th. I don'tlive in the South Bronx. I don't visit the St1uth Hronx. But the pain I feel origimrtes in seeing the syuulor and widespread human suffering caused: by socicty'li indifference. The depths to which we allow outsl;'!lves to sink arc . wjthout apparent lihlit~. The· rate . of descent is no :slower on this campus, The problems preventing proper inter·pcrsonal discourse at Union College are varied 15ut not vetv complex ~tftet considering. the cas~ I have presentecl. Having aU graduated from high school somcwhere .in a. past whi.ch immediutely precludes the necessary soc;iaJ. and inter..,pen;onal graces for effective group interaction, our present is. at best. isol.ationist. You're a preppie. They're Black. I'm White. Jocks. Pukes. . Different . beliefs in a supernatural beillg. We keep defining mutually exclusive groups. Further. perhaps the most serious .offense at Union is that the College. by its superstructure and inherent inahilitv to make us Students. in the. cla~sic~l sense. condones all this because it keeps the pressure on ps a11d not on them. Kind of like Representative Badillo blaming ''interracial divisiveness\ for the failure of poverty programs in the South Bron~. If we continue tode11veach other the unhindered asserti~n of selfin a real-world situation. the ahernativc is virtuallv to he ''clroked out ofus:· Violence. And unnatural, death. Concordiensis' position is one which continues to support this denial. With that. I conclude my college journalism . career. * * If you have any concrete suggestions on eitlter ( I) how to improve the present grading system or ( 2} alternative (and conceivably better) systems of evaluating students (based on their achievement'! p~rf ormance'! promise'? potential'!) •. please submit them as soon as possible to any of the following members .of the Committee on Educational Innovation. which has been charged by the Cotlege Senate to review Union's grading system: Profs. Allen (English). Panlilio (M.E.). Seiken (tvlath}. Walbek (PoL Sci.): students. Nancy Eppler (Psych.) or Ellyn Roth (A mer. Studies). * * * * BLITHER Monday 29th, Bake Sale m Hale House, to raise funds for medical aid to Indochina. Please come. bring what you have hladc and buy too! To make this a suc~;:ess we need EVERYBODY'S HELP: --· Bake what.ever you can. bread. The S.ttldent Life Committee is rewriting and updating the current Guide for Students at Union College. Suggestions are ~lcome and can he deposited at the SLC mailbox in Student Activities or with any member of the SLC. Copies of the Guide are still .available from Mrs. Snowden ·in the Dean of Students' office. * * * * brownies, pastries, pies. cakes. The .Jewish Student Union at cookies, grenola. fudge, or Skidmore C_ollegei~ spoHsoring a whatl!ver .the .heart desires and the stomach yearlls for! • p~rt~ thi:;. Sat. ni~h~. ~~!1· 2~th at 8:.30. .. P.~. Tl;le .fest!VI-tWS wdl be B.dng· them to· Hale House on herd in \Barret Center; on the new Monday for the, sale starting. ·at . campus. Refreshments wiU be '10· A.M. You have the whole served. We hope you'U be able to week-end before hand. so good make it. See you there! luck, and th~nk you for your * * * * ~elp. Please contact Ann Bowley, · Box 509, Richmond, Jot further Reminder: The Bigllr!>thersand' information. Tel. 346-9545. Rig Sisters progratn will be ~ . * .* .. *. 1 ;,t·rn showing \The lone R~tnger .. in SS · ·' fri6 tom·orrow·· .. at' 3:45. Applications are still being Refreshments will bc served. See accepted for the position. of you there! Assistant Orientation Chairman * • * ., for the. class of '77. Two students W!ll hechosen for thi~ position. and Will assist. In the planning process ;and in the execution of the arientation program next September. Preference will be given to students applying from the class of '75. Applications will be available ·through next Wednesday. February -7th. in the dean ef students office. Old Gym Hall. * * * * The Nassau County Lawyers Association of Long Island award~; an annual scholarship of $300 to a qualified resident of Nassau County entering an accredited law school offering a degree in law. See Mrs. Kozel in SS 2-16 for details. The Council on Legal Education Opportunity has announced the requirements for and locations .of 1973 Summer rnstitutes for disadvantaged students desirous of attemiing law school in the fall of 1973. See Professor Daniels in SS 216A for details before March .15. * * * ~ On Saturday. January 27,1clrilis sponsoring an evening .of Cabaret. The program features President Martin reading selections· from Melville; a recorder quartet led by Prof. Driscoll: and a poetry reading by a prominent- American poet. The program begins at 8:30 p.m. in Arts rm. 202. The Red Cross Bloodmobile will be on campus Feb. 8 and 9. The blood drive will be held in the Humanitie~ building. rooms 115 and 117. betwee'n the hours of I I a.m. and .5 p.m. In order to anticipate the number of students and faculty members wishing to donate. appointments would be appreciated. In order to make an appointment see Mrs. Marra in the Student Activities Office, Old Gym Hall. as soon as possible. We will have WRUC broadcasting live from the Humanities Building T ADMISSION, IS FREE. WIN:E • . · 0 • AND CHEEsr: WILL BE each donot. the ·Brothers ~II. SERVED. owne_d and operated by. U-mon * * ·· * * College alumni. will be offering a free draft beer. Beat R.P.I.!! * * * * On February 2; ·1973: ii.t 8:30 p.m. in the Linton High School Auditorium. The Schenectady Symphony Orchestra, under the baton of Anthony Pezzano. and The Thursday MusicalClub. under the direction of Miss Helen Henshaw. will combine their talents in an all-French concert. Works by A. Roussel, C. Debusscy. M. Ravel. and A . Honegger will be presented. \The Blessed Demoiselle\ will feature solos by .lane Bucci and Carol Randles. well-known area artists. Tickets will be available at the door. * * * * Wanted: 2 copies of Duncan Wallace's \The Mountebank.\ ;\;ew price forfirst used books. Call 346-2356. ask for Bruce. * * * * Political Forum members and all interested: Important meetin:g Mond~ty. Jan. 29th. 4:30 p.m .• S:..'i. 112. * * * * Dance students a11d others: Saturday. January 27. at 8:00 P.M. in the Unitarian Society on Wendell Avenue (one block fmm campus), Leonard Bernst.ein·s Kaddish will be interpreted through poetry and modern dance. The work is very moving and hea,utifully danced. * * * * The Security Office still maintains the campus Lost and Found and has a collection of sneakers, watches, books. .and other sundries, wlticll may be claimed upon proper identification. * * * * lf you have any gripes concerning the library or suggestions for its improvement • \:tl1titli·ltl<'I<'FI!\'Wlf'li\\Irl('Fll\Jt.li'l<\'lt\ltltlrlrl<'lrl<'lrlf'ldrltlrtrl\\IrlfrlrlrXrl<'lrXrFZ pleas\ contact: Kathy Mitchell . · 107 North. 370-2493: Tom NEWEST LU,NC.H J . . d s h Conley. 257 Davidso11. 277-4936: Unlors an . . op omores Geoff Taylor. 109 South. 346- . 9396. . Navy's Reserve Officer Candidate progrart1\'hils .. · ,t. s••••••ilnllKII[I For tb.~ !Jest b~t dogs and sallee in to\\ n. M·F g a.m.-2 a.m. Weekends 8 a.m.-4 a.m. 715 A.lbany St. . 34fi·94Z4 .. . openmgs. Training is required during the summer only and for pay. Juniors must appty before Fehruary 23 Call 346-4914 Moffett's Liquor Store 1505 Vao Vnnken Ave• Schenectady, New Y()rk 12308 -ADD TO YOUR EDVCATION- ·-Lf..\'ARN MORE ABOUt WINES- Join Our WINE TAST/NU CLUB No Admissiqns ('hur~:e ·- ,Vo Rt'tjuiremf!nt.~ Each milntll\\e >elect a different 11ihctn h~ tc.\tcd. I here i1 a til I'd dcw1 ihing the ~inc in grcut dct11il1o :\OU cunlcurn uhout it. On thi' c;ml there ·i, a pictun· of the hilwho r<>u c:1n remember the 11inc m the luturc to inirrc\ ~nur dutc when )Ill! dill~ o'en cir simply \\itnf ;1 ~nod huhlc ol 111,.:. . · . . .... Levrs Dave's Mens Sbop 453 State St. (downtown Schel'lectady)

Page 4 . ·----------------------------------------------------~----~~~-------------------------------------------------------··----------- Friday . .!anum:r .?f>, 1973 . Hoop Stuns Ephmen by MARK W. MlNDEL Chuck Abba bit fo~r pr~ssure free throws 9owt:[ the ~.!<retch in the · bonus ~ituat:iol); 111~ :l~st two. with ;.ix seconds left. to g:ive\Uni(ln itn insurmountable four point lead over Willi<tms Wednesday night in tiny La~cll Gym. and the Dutchmen Went on to post a 65-63 win for their biggest victory of the season .. Union is now 6-4. Union. which led 31-23 at the half thanks tq a G,cojfWalkct 25, foot rcftn'1naker· \\at ihe buner. opened up as much as an II point lead in the second half. Three three point plays helped the Garnet in the beginning oft he final stan; a. one each by Mike Doyle at 18:00. Wal'ker at 15:10. and Charlie · Gug.l.ioota at · 13:50 which put Union up 44--33. Union played most ofthe second halif in deep foul ·trouble, and was forced at one poim · to play inexperienced Kevin Crawford and Bill Henson. who had played in the freshman .game. at the guard spots. (Tom Comps was injured in practice. and Abba and Denio were in foul trouble). · Williams began a pres$ with. 13 minutes to go and started coming back. At II :40 Williams got 4 quick points via steals and cut the Union lead to 47-41. ·aoth teams were in t'he penalty situation early in the second half and the contest became a one and one battle. Union took 10 petialty one and ones. eight down the stretch. while Williams had five. three over the last four and a half minutes. Union converted for 10 points while the.-Eplimen could connect for only three. Thi~ was the key to the victory. Mike Doyle, shown hert) agains.t Wf)VIe_I'(lll, fed all UnionJ'ehounders li'Tlh II in 11:tn agaifi\\1 Wifliam.\·, Tom Bacher. who finished with 21 points for the night, hit both ends of the first of Union's eight big one and ones down the stretch. to give Union a comfortable 56-47 lead at 6:30. But Williams hit six straight points to close the gap to three. 56- 53 with five minutes left. Dick Small then fouled out for Williams. the first ofthree Ephmen to do so. and sent Mike Doyle to the line for the penalty situation. Mike hit one to raise the Garnet lead to four. photo by Bill Erichson With 4:30 remammg Abba committed his fourth personaL putting the Dutchmen in the position of playing four men with four fouls (along . with Doyle. Denio, and Gugliotta). Harry Sheehy. who finished with a game high 27 points, hit the first of his foul shots, but the rebound off his missed second attempt was tapped in by center Les Ellison for a three- point play. The lead was now one. 57-56 with just over four minutes to go. to cut the lead to lour. His second shot missed ~nd once again was rebounded by Ellison, but the big man 'lost it out of bounds. Denio and Abba broke the press and passed the ball around. while the clock ticked down to 12 seconds. when Bates fouled Dovle. to foul out. Mike missed the shot. and Williams fast-broke for a Sheehy layup to make it 63-61. Sheehy jumped on Abba with six seconds left and Abba iced the victorv with his third and fourth straight pressure shots. Sheehv scored at the hu77er. - At this juncture Union looked in trouble. The small gym gave the Ephmen a big homecourt advantage. and the place was ripe for the fast break. something Union just doesn't do. Add Union's foul troubles to this and you get a Williams win. When John Denio missed a one and one with four minutes to go. Williams had its first chance to go ahead. Charlie Gugliotta fouled out but Bate missed a one and one. Union had its starting lineup hack in and Bob Patterson recorde<:I his fifth personal sending Abba to the line. Chuck dropped two through for a 59-.56 Garnet lead with 2:21 to go. hut Sheehy banged home ajumpcr at I :5.5 to close it to one. Then Ellison sent Bacher to the line and T J once aga.in hit both ,ends for d 6'1-5il'Un1€h1~ lead with.,onlv 1·3J left. · · The victory was Union's most impressive in quite some time. Charlie Gugliotta. despite five fot1ls in the second half. played a fine offensive game, scoring eight. Tom Bacher. hitting 8 of I 7. and Walker. 7 of 15 for 17 points paced the Garnet shooter;s. Doyle had 10 and Abba added 8. Doyle led the rebounders with II. lJnion gets a week off to savor its win before donning the Garnet and White !lCXt Wednesday for a home contest against Trinity. The week off will give Combs and Luke Dillon some needed time I<) recuperate. Union was nearly upset by a laci<adaisical Trinity squ<Jd l:Jst year in one of its poorest games. Mike Doyle was the hero. sa\ing Union [Jom an embarr~ssing loss. · With 1: ll left Ellison char1:1ed. turning the ball over to the Dutchmen. Geoff Walker dropped in a 1ofiing archer off a dme und Union opened a seemingly safe flJ- 5X with 4R seconds left. tevfs Dave's. Mens S.hop 453 State St. (downtown Schenectady). Tom Ba£her led all lrarnel \t'r ll't'l'l with ::I poi!! 1.\ ill Wcdnelda I m)dll's n5-ti3 ll'in. photo hy Bill Erichson But Walker fouled SheehY f••c sec;ndsJater~ and Shcehv made one ~ . ~ . .,. ... FIVE ROOMS AVAILABlE FOR PARTIES AND BANQUETS Featuring ftolian-Americtm Cuisine mother ~erro ~ le:Jtauranl 1115 BARRETT STREET SCHENECTADY, N, Y, FREE PARKING Tel 016-9554 or FR7·2642 OPEN 7 DAYS A WEEK Favored By The Union Athletic Teams! Frosh Hoop, Now 7 -O,Beats· Williams by LOUIS BARASH Wednesday night at Williams the Fres.hman bas~etball team took· its seventh ;;traight game, 58-49. but they didn't accomplish it with t!Je same ease displayed ln previous games. The game started out as most recent fr~shm.en games have. with Union taking co~troland opening a: large l(lad. With eleven minutes still ren1aining in the flrst half Union held a 19 peint lead and Coach Scanlon pulled several of his starters from the game. Williams started play.ing a pressing defense, causing · sneral turnovers. and closed the gap to 9. The starters wer-e sent back in. though. a.nd were able to build up a seventeen point lead at the half. The second half proved tougher for the Garnet. Williams' tough ;one defense got tougher. and Union was tl!rning the ball over to Williams enabling them to score several unanswered buckets. closing the lead to six. With about ten minutes left. in an attempt to make Williams come out more on defense .. Union went into a s.talL Bill Henson and Steve Kelly (who only recently has been shifted to guard) handled the hall remarkably Well. and with John Raymond doing the scoring on Jay-ups and shortjumpers from the baseline the team was able to resist any threat<: Individually, Bill Henson was exceptional. sc~ring tenpoints and showing the smooth play that has consistently guided the team this . year. :John l{aymond was once again' the high point man. with 21. and his strong work off the boards was valuable against a strong Williams front line. And once again that thing that somethnes goes unnoticed, the defense. was played steadily by the entire team. Steve Kelly. Billy Cop pula and Dave Viniar.a]] were solid, and the two subguards Mark Glaser and Mark Gillum both had their finest defensive games ofthe year. l.t Would seem that tbe squad was a little weak against Williams, considering that in their recent streak they have been winnin.g by an average margin of close to thirty points a game. But this is not necessarily the case. This was the first away game for the team since last· term at RPl. And the game was played in a' gym that was obviously favorable to the home team's zone defense. The tiny playing area allowed WiHiams to\play a zone and keep Union's shooters f~r from the hoop. In all the team showed that t'hey have poise Under pressure. which is just as important as being able to put the ball in the basket. !. Union ' . . I nov!~ 1\bbf! jil'lChP~ jWQI~•r I Denio G P\ T' :! A l(f Smoll !l 4 ; Creaha!'l 3 ~ '-1 Sheehv 7 3 17 Fl'lt~ . o o o ·rwr$,\ G !\ 1': 3 3 ' ~ !) 4 11 5 21 II 1 1 4 G 8 , tl 2 • Union Frosh ~ G F T Nillioms Frosll Raymond 10 1 2·1 Corter ! Mar.cinowskf A 0 .e Scheus5ler . · :Henson 5 0 JO. Inbuscll 'G FT •6 0·12 c 2 2 ~ 1 1:\ 3 0 6 I G.uoiioHo Crawf<m:t • To1ols I 3 2 S Rosten 0 1 1 ·l'otters(ll! ?3 19 ~.~ T~!nl\ .. •· 6 0 12 27 ? (t3 Kelly 2 2 6 Daly 1 Glazer 1 0 2 Tram, Copr.JUitJ A 1 9 Jensen . I Breton 1 0 2 Nilson ! WP,sternolfl'! ' 4 @ 1 ~ .,( 0 1 1 0 3 3 i 1'~1111t \ 4 ~· T'liOI~ .'8 13 49 Mermen At 1-1 After having swum a magnificent and tight meet last week against Albany State. the Union swimmers ran into tough RPI and were soundly beaten by the score of 72-39. The Dutchmen were swimming just their second · meet of t'he year as compared with RPI's fifth of this season, and the better-conditioned Engineers proved to have just too much depth for their hosts. Though the score was indeed lopsided. there were many fine pevformances for Coach Bob McMurray's charges. and wins came from three of·· them. Freshman Tom Richardson is yuick ly proving that he is to he reckoned with no matter who the. opposition •happens to he. and against RPI he recorded a win in the 200 yard ·individual medley with a time of2: 18.6. Against R PI's All American Joe Shuffleton. Richardson was beaten. but gave Shuffleton a Close race. Other wins were recorded by Tom Hough, his in the 100 yard freestyle witha time of 55.1.· Outstanding diver Bob Field. third in the state last season as a freshman. had an off day, but still won both the required and optional diving events. Not only were these wins important to f,he Union cause. but sweeps in the individual medley (Richardson and sophomore Tom Burbank) and optional diving (Field and Junior Mark Foster) contributed to Union's point total. This Saturday. the Dutchmen natators host the powerful contingent from King's Point. Post time: 1:00 p.m. Support your sw1m team their swim suits don't. . ··---------- ...... --------....., I • SAVE AT LEAST ·20%oFF rtgulCir pr/cet We ofitr G flae nlectloa af winfer - • SUITS • TOPCOATS & OVERCOATS • SPcSl'r COATS e SLACKS • SUIIURBAN COATS e e SPORT SHIRTS e kNIT SHIRTS • CAJIDiwAN SWIATEJIS • PUUOVEil SWEATERS &':: • NECKWEAR and mc11i)' ·other ltenisl A1~ 416 Sicl'h St. \Dawatawn\ Cp•n Dally, 9 t~ 5:30-Thursclay 'til 9

- .. Vol. 102, No. 26 I , founded at Union College in 1877 Tuesday, January 30, 1973 20 cents Times Covers Tenure Cites AAUP Opposition by PETER DICKERMAN reporter then utilized a report prepared by the Association of American Colleges which indicates that the tenure squeeze is a national problem. competent job, but journalism by telephone has some inherent limitations. A common complain/ - hook-huyin:~ /bus photo by Bill Erichson Those who reached page 50 of the first section of Sunday's New Yodi Times (not an easy task) saw the following nondesc17ipt headline: \College To Shift Plan On Tenure.\ lt was not until the second paragraph of the article that the reader discovered that the 1nstitution spoken of, \.a sma.ll, upstate New York college •.. near Schenectady,\ was in fact oqr very own campus. Aside from the question of whether any place should be .considered near Schenectady, we might come to the conclusion that lf the Times is interested something pretty unusual must be happening here. Dr. Jordan E. Kurland, an official of the American Association of University Professors, stated his organization's o.p·posltlbn to tenure alternatives such as the one proposed here. Dr. Kurland told the times that \If a person has passed the probation period and is worth keeping, he should be kept permanently.\ In the arficle's conclusion there was mention that a faculty meeting will be held. Wednesday to discuss the tenure ·proposal, although as of Monday afternoon this news had not been confirmed. Perhaps a college achieves real status only when its faculty meetings are announced first in the New York Times. The overall impression one receives from the article is that of a As for other events on the tenure front, a group of junior faculty members has sponsored a \statement of support in principle\ for the tenure proposal. Within 24 hours of the start of its circulation the statement had been signed by more than one-'half of the junior faculty, and expressions of support have been reported from all Divisions of the College. The statement's sponsors claim that the tenure plan offers .. more options\ to both administration and faculty. Changes· Seen For Bookstore Gene Maeroff, a reporter who specializes in the field of education, made telephone calls to several people last week who have been involved in the new tenure proposal, and the result was Sunday's story. As to the question of why a newspaper of international renown should take note of Union's tenure plan, Maeroff wrote that \Colleges and universities across the country are seeking fresh methods of dealing with the tenur·e question,\ and '\The new policy at Union would be one ·Of the first providing for the retention of teachers who do not receive tenure at ail institution where a formal tenure system operates.\ However, it is apparent that approval of the tenure proposal is definitely not unanimous, and serious arguments may yet be raised for major revisions in the plan. Until faculty meetings arc held, estimations of faculty sentiment should be considered merely speculative. by PAT BOHEN The Campus Bookstore has long been the scourge of the Union College campus. It is the dumping ground for grievances about money, books, · and the entire capitalist system. Having a few grievances of my own, and not in a particularly sympathetic mood, I trekked to our friendly bookstore to get the facts. · First of aU, if _you . haven't noticed, the bookstore is under pew rnanagem.ent. Mr. Green now leads th\e . opC'ranon in . an. energetic and progressive 1 manner. My interview with him was more like a clash of wills, with neither willing to give his sympathies to the e>ther side. The confrontation was by no means hostile, though. · He was more than willing to give me the information l asked for, and r do not envy him his position in the least. My first question was about buying and re-sellirig used text books. It seems that there is not enough spac.e in the present store to allow them to provide this much--needed service for t.hc student. The expectation is that they will re-sell \some\ texts when they make their planned move to Carnegie Hall. Some of the problems in this service occur when course books change often from year to year, and sometimes even from term to term. r 0 prevent the store from being piled with dusty, un-needed · books, Mr. Green is preparing a special form for professors' book orders. He. seems to think that this will alleviate much of the trouble now encountered in book- ordering procedures as well as identify which texts will be re- used. This new form will include specifications for obligatory reading and a supplementary list. In this way, the student will know which books are required and which only suggested for any course. Hopefully, this will make the professors more conscious of the reading that they assign. Money is one of the major issues between the students and their bookstore. h is togical that this be so, but a great part of the reason is that the bookstore is the only place where you. the student, see your own hard- earned money change hands. It hurts, but it is aU too easy to place the blame for the astronomical cost .of education · on the shoulders .of Mr. Green and staff. It is estimated (by Mr. Green) that the student ·spends only 3 per cent of the total cost of a college education on books, The bookstore is funded by the College. It is not an external enterprise run solely for profit. 1n fact, the trustees have ordered that the bookstore make not more than 4 per cent profit in a year. This 4 per cent is used to buy new fixtures for the store. Last year's income was $300,884; the operating expenses $246,255; salaries. $3\6 4.; ca.pit:al outlay $350. This year's .projected income is $396,700; operating expenses $336,870; salaries $39,951; capital outlay $3,600. The increase in outlay .is for the purchase-of new cash register:) so that the lines will move faster during the early term rushes. Don't expect any price drop on books next term. Mr. Green anticipates that prices will skyrocket for several reasons, one of which is the cessation of Nixon's price control. Another is that paper is becoming outrageoUsly expensive because of a tree anq · pulp shortage. Continued on Page 2 • . . .. { , ~' An unnamed \College spokesman\ was quoted as saying that the contractual scheme wo1,1ld allow the College more flexibility in that it could \hold on to a person who i11 otherwise qualified but comes up for tenure in a department that is already overloaded with tenured members.\ To clarify the issue, Maeroff cited· the case of History Professor. David Potts, who explained that under the present system he could not attain tenure because the History Department .. had already reached th~ tenure limit set by the College.\ The Comedian Klein Wins Crowd by ROBERT SHUGOLL Comedian Robert Klein performed admirably last Saturday ni.ght as the warmup act for Merry Clayton. He succeeded in what all first acts try but few ~accomplish: winning over an audience that came to Memorial Chapel to hear a concert. A true professional\ Klein expounded for an hour not on topics hardly imaginable but on experiences most of us have dealt with, from the dilemma 9f which of various handshakes to offer an approaching person, to an accidental trek through dog shit in New Y~rk City. His jokes flowed smoothly and. naturally and were delivered with the precision timing on the punchlines so necessary for an • effective comic routine. A pleasant surprise in the set came in the form of Phil Galdston, a 1972 Union graduate who accompanied Klein on keyboards. A noted Concordy editor has flatly stated that eight inches of snow jell Sunday night and Monday, which insured that January would not pass d,-y. The most jell at Kingston, 14 inches, and one inchfell on The Big Apple. Merry Clayton and her five- man band, the night's featured musicians, made for exciting entertainment when they were tight, but invited for audience indifference at their weaker points. Since the time spent on each of these planes was divided fairly equally one is inclined to label the set mediocre. Starting with Merry herself, she was devastating on good soul-rock material like ''Gimme Shelter\ and ... Steamroller Blues.\ But most of the songs were not of the quality of those two; her powerful. raspy voice, which is certainly not a pretty one, didn't give the tunes any more impact than they had on surface value. The band, too, was alternately strong and weak. The drummer had no talent, and the bass man (although be looked like Jimi Hendrix playing a six-string) sounded only fair. Standing out from the group, though, was Curtis Amy, Merry's husband and a tenor-sax great in his owh right. ·He laid down consistently solid lines.. The keyboard man played fairly weU and, while Merry's lead guitarist remained in the background for the most part, )le ripped out en~icing leads whenever called upon for a lengthy break. The band didn't really gain much momentum until the last few tunes, which almost Tedeemed their earlier mediocrity. photo by Les Kernan

Page i_ ..• 1 0 .[etters, To the Editor: Your account of my remarks at the .. ProfessQr as Scholar\ presentation last Monday contains some errors which perhaps youwill allow me to correct. lest someone search in vain for references to a German philosopher named \Bitkenstein may I point out that my research involves the work. of Ludwig Wittgenstein. Also,. I have never denied teaching tb.e philosophy of science; although. it is apparently relatively unknown, such a course is given by me annually; · FinaJly, my remarks concerning the relationship of published research to teaching were descriptive and not prescriptive, as your reporter would have them. My claim was simply that most published re8earch is intended for a small minority of specialists and is therefore not appropriate for presentation in undergraduate courses. In my comments 1 was primarily lamenting this fact! not advocating it as fhe most desirable situation possible. Sincerely, Jan K. Ludwig * * * * To the Editor: Last term as the campus representatives to the Board of Trustees we held an open meeting to field student opinion. The turnout was disappointing at best, with only a few students attending our meeting. We feel that there are enough campus issues to warrant another meeting. Housing, the student· center, and the new tenure modification plan stir up plenty of interest in casual conversations. It is our hope that we can hear mote than the opinions of the people we live with. Therefore, we are holding a meeting a week from this Thursday (Feb. 8th) in the Fox Lounge at 8 p.m. Any and all members of the studentry are invited to attend and talk about campus issues. Peter B. Pach '73 Tim McCabe '74 * * * * To the Editor: As freshmen, we have no idea to whom to take our complaints, as the government of Union College is obviously too complex and too busy to explain itself to the freshmen peons. We are stuck with Concordy as our outlet, and we hope some of Union's \patrician\ class will take notice and heed our. plea. We have had the extreme pleasure of dining at West College for the past 14 weeks. Union College has been very accommodating to its \coeds\; however, Saga has not. The \food\ that we are forced to eat may be suitable for men of high caloric intake; however. for women there are many drawbacks. The meat served at Saga is eiiher gro11nd with bread crumbs, soaked in butter or oil, covered with sauce. or just plain fat. This leaves the Union coed with two choices: either eat, drink lots of Alka Seltzer, and gain weight, (one coed has calculated that at the rate she gained weight last semester, she will be 200 lbs. by graduation.) or become a rabbit, eat only carrots, salad, and cottage cheese, and drink lots of Atka Seltzer. This provides no nourishment. If the coed does choo~ the latter · Psychology. For e~arnple. two about. And any f~l-I.lgs I. do- hav~ .~lwa,ys to have i:Q\ Jearn the hard she Will probably become somewhat Jengthy analyses of the are.so blurred by ig!lo,rance, aDO SO Way- and fro~ Whl:lt we a.re·doing rundown, sick, aneQlic, or, better administration's facultyev~ll.lation studded with 'the prejudice o( evalaation~wise it is gQing to be yet, irritable, She also;pays for Joe system have been fed into the mill personal desire not taken care of, very baro. We have to leAI'ri that Jock's 16 portions per meal. of apparently discarded papers. ,J that it wou{d be not only non- the w&y tQ a productive, viable Certainly she is being taken, since a showed Ted Lockwood, when he professional but (lamn near organizati()rt i$ not to be gained by life-time supply of cottage che.ese.is was Provost, and at his request, unethical for me to open my mouth pitting one against <mother in the not worth 660 dollars. that the then-operant sys.tem was or take up my pen to say how they a:tena of zero-sum game~;. Yes, we Union freshmen women have one which rewarded mediocrity perform a job, the responsibilities have JtOW reached the way statipn been accused of being uptight, and not com~tence, and a and WQr)(ings of whi~h I can only of the Absurd. May 5ornething.or irritable, incompatible, dramatic, replacement was suggested. guess at. someone speed us on oqr journey etc. Maybe if the women got along last year I updated the previous Unfortunately, l ,believe, from up the existential stairca$e so that better with their gastro-intestinal document to show that the then- my knowledge of;the psychological we l:ari see inclearer light what the· tracts, they would get along better operant sy5tem was a zero..,sum development of man, that we must·· ·manag~meotofhurnanaJfairs js.aU with Qthe.r people, too. game-agamewhichis.al>horrent passthrougha rational-economic about. It won•t be found in ()Ur GQvernment, wherever you may to any self respecting person. As a approach to the management of· journeyfromtheRidiculous to·-tbe- be, FREE US FROM SAGA zero-sumgame,ithadinherentlyin Union.Collegel>ecausewearejt.~st Abs11rd. Re$p~tfuliy, Cl!lre W. Griv~ 'SPRING TERM: it every problem cited, for maturing out of t.he benevolently * * * * To the Editor: Love, Donna Usa June Lynne Nancy l!:sther Jmut Sue Vicki .•. I feel that I must now speak out on a matter which, at least to me, is of serious concern. When it comes to merit evaluation at Union College I see us on if trip from the Ridiculous to the Absurd ~ a trip which will take us into the quagmire of suspicion and recrimination. In recent years attempted, with timbers,\ to shore evaluation procedures: we have \decaying up three I. The administration's, mostly peer administered, faculty evaluation procedure. 2. The students' evaluation of their instructional experience through Linebacker. 3. And now evaluation of administrators by lesser in rank administrators, faculty, staff, and, as Concordiensis seems to hope, by the students. Each of these procedures, as I intimated above, is being erected on \decaying timbers.\ The basic idea seems to be to bring into this organization systems for managing which are borrowed from the business and industrial modeL Apparently it is not known, or not accepted, by the promoters of these methodologies that these self same systems are rapidly being discarded as (a) unworkable, _ and (b) as creators of harom, rather than good; by the very organizations from which we are borrowing the model. The decay of morale and productivity in organizations which have adopted these is notorious. To verify this, one need only survey the literature or do a little study in organizations which opted for their installation. These organizations have learned that what was instituted in high hope and expectation led only to the bottomless pit of recrimination, fear, and suspicion, and, worst of all, to apathy bred in the hopelessness of trying when the system stacks the cards against you. This is not a matter which has, only recently, come to bother me. Nor is it that I am kicking back at the dog which has bitten me. (Most anyone in this community knows I am doing rather well.) O:ver the past eight years, I have more tl;tan once brought this to the attention of the promoting parties. I have dohe so quietly and behind the scene and in the setting of my classes in Organizational example, by, Paul Thompson and a1,1tocratic form. Oh, how I wish it Gene [)alton in the Har\ard wereno~so, bu~itis.Unfortunately Business Review, Jan.-Feb., 1970. even tbe colleg~~educat~d seems _ Pr~fe$sor of Psy~h()logy . The current faculty evaluation system not only still includes all the negative aspects of a zero-sum game but a new and, to me, ~most demeaning element. It is bad enough when one has to keep score on all he does professorally ~nd professionally in order to get his Brownie Points. It is demeaning when one has to use his student and faculty contacts to tally Brownie Points for colleagueship by: BookstQre c·hanges.-_. _ . , l. \participation in seminars, colloquia, and scholarly discussions -\ 2. \assistance given to colleagues in methodology, critiques, bibliographical recommendations, and the like ....-\ . (The above quoted from the current Faculty Man1.1al) ~tion To amass my Brownie Points in respect thereto, I must keep a record of all I do of this nature. Who else knows it? I must record The new l>ooblare manager, Mr. Gr~cn .photo by Les Kernan that I participated in the Professor Continued frolllPage 1 As a Scholar program as requested Another factor in the high cost by the students. I must record that I of books is the professor. have respected my colleague's Professors often order more request to appear in his class. I expensive editions of a book must record that I spent an hour when cheaper ones can be over a cup 'of coffee at the obtained. Unless there is. a Rathskellar, going over a specific reason for this (such as particular methodology or using the criticisms in a Norton critiquing a paper written that I am edition), then it is worthwhile for competent to critique. the student to investigate prices I herewith refuse and shall befOFe ordering. continue to refuse to seek Brownie On course texts, the bookstore Points in a system for just trying to must automatically reduce the be a decent human being toward retail price by 5 per cent. This is the students and my peers. If that a standing rule by President means I am to receive a lowered Harold ·c. Martin. Mr. Green rating, then So Belt. figures that, with this 5 per cent Also, I shall continue to boycott reduction, when he adds original the Linebacker becaulle most of its bo'ok price and postage, the ratings are invalid or ridiculous. bookstore makes little .or no Does the instructor return papers profit on textbook sales. promptly? There is one whale of a Right· now the store seems to difference between answers which be running on a rather shaky stem from 15 in a class given an basis. None of the student fees go objective exam and 70 in a class directly into the bookstore, but given an essay exam which requires they may in the future. This has the professor to find 30 to 35hours happened on many other time to grade. Do the book and the campuses; the chief reason is · class correlate? Such a question \shrinkage.'' means nothing unless the student Shrinkage is a euphemism for knows, and oftimeshedoesnot,(a) shoplifting, which is in turn a the . problem of trying to find euphemism for ste_aling. It has correlating booksevenifonewants not reached epidemic to correlate or (b) whether the proportions here yet, but that is instructor's intent is to present well on the way. It has become so disparate information. How does bad on other campuses that thecoursestandinrelationtoother many have been forced to usc courses you'' have taken? \clerk service\ instead of-the Ridiculous! If the course material open text stacks. If <1dopted he.-c, is dry, drab, and uninterestingto90 that would mean fining in out of 100, but still required, in one requisitions and standing in line form or another, to graduate, it will for hours waiting for a clerk to be rated low no matter who or how bring out the hooks. It is a it is taught, unless 'ff is taught bya distinct ~possibility, although not teaching genius which our current a pleasant one, that unless selection criteria won't let us hire. ..shrinkage\ stops, this ~Plan will Next we come to the latest be instituted. evaluation system, evaluation of Your other bookstore administrators. I havesuggestedto questions will hopefully be my chairman that I think our answered next term. Official department should say no to this bookstore policy and answers to process. And, I submit that the most-asked questions wil1 be possibly others, including my printed ·on the inside of all U rtion peers, the students, and the College notebooks. Mr. Green Concordy staff, who felt left out, hopes that .putting answers there will give people more incentive to read them than if they were printed in a circular. After aU, during boring classes and those interminable lines for course changes, what else is there to do? Until then, be a little less harsh in j1,1dgment of the bookstore. I get the feeling that Mr. Green was only half joking when he offered a day at his job to anyone who woll'ld take it. Frosh Ho-op Continued•from Page4 Fortunately. Mark Glazer and- Mark .Gillum did an excellent job of filling in for flensoh. and did not allow Union to fall behind. The outcome of the game seemed to hang in the balance during the final 30 seconds as Siena controlled the ball, with the score tied at 5 J-51. However, tight defense on the part of the Garnet forced a turnover and the ensuing overtime. Union seemed better prepared for the extra session than for the previous 40 minutes of play. Whr::n Coppula opened the overtime witb a -quick three point play, Union never relinquished the lead. Kelly then added five more points and the Garnet were safely on t4e 'Way to a well~ earned 69-5=9 victory. \' * * * VOICE YOUR OPINION The Social Committee is holding a dance in the Gym on Saturday nillht, Fel>ruary 10, and needs student opinion on what type of band to hire. Under consideration are a rock band or a band similar to ··Roomful of Blues.\ If you have a preference, haul your little body over to see Mrs. Marra in Student Activities (old Gym Hall) as soon as possible and shout. The Social Committee w.ill be eternally grateful for prom'pt expression of opinion, for the deadline for a decision is W edttesday afternoon. rounded •• Ulllon College in 1877 should give second thought. ..................... iiillii • .,. __ lililoio~.....,.-~_.~-~ Speaking now solely for myself; I will not make evaluations that stand on a foundation of ignorance near the brink of dishonesty. 1 do not know what Dean Lichterman's job or the President's job is all .:'c~pt durin& ~\.tminnliun und lacali<>ll p.:riml• h~ rh,· sll1Ul'i11 1->lld) t>ll'nitlil Cnllc!!~. Schcncclad). :'\. Y. \atlt>lliil a<h<'l'll!>lll!! rc•prc''<'lllalrlc', ''~wnal fducali<>lllll \d,~rtisinp Sen ie~. Inc. Ct>li<'!!~ l'iihli,h,•r, !{,·pre'\' Ilia! 11 , .. !\ational tducali<Hml !\d1crtisin!! S<'l'\ ;~,·. lne .. \.\ C I drltui;~l Olfin•. Old (iym. llniun (',,flcgc. l'uhlicatinn Ol'fkc. I 11<' .J,·\ ish w,,rlll l'uhlicali<>ll>. 771 St<llc' Street. Sch~'nc~·tudl. \.Y. 12307 . .l~o-~.1511. l'lll<·rcd 111 lh<' Sdrt'ncctad~ pnsl office\' Second ('1;,._ M:iil \lattcr.Suh>.:riprion 20 ,·~n~> a cup) .$1< \ ~car delivered ann1hcrc in the 'tlnircd St:il<''· Deadline i·or all cop), 11hkh must he t)pcd •rnd duunlc-,p;Jccd.\ 7 p.m. un Mondm and Thi.mdal nt the Concord\ ••lfi<.:<'. al-><'lc' Old Ch:ll'<'i. Office u:lcphnnc nuillhcr ~' 370-6155: bur th~ ullicc is unl~ rn ll\' on \lundu~ and Thursday nigh!>. I-'M all edih>ri:ll nHIItcr>. call the <'dit<II'-JII•chit-1 :11 .w~. 1640: for mformati.on- c:rll Sludcnl Ac1i1 itics Olficc ut J70-M IX. Levrs- .. Dave~s; Mens Shop 453 State St. (downtown Schenectady) L u·a:.G·I 's· :RESTX·U-RANY SPECIALIZING IN Italian· American Fooc.f I 125 BARRETT Si'. Sche~tady 01 6-97-44 · Enjoy. Siuling_, Sfe~ks and Cho~=Js Visit OulCockta11' ·a~,.. • ,; I - bas set eve gar SOl Ali Up ne~ set. its list yo1 wh Th ha' pt~ oVt (6. Re tra eve 7;4 As rec eve sp< pr< bac In< pa1 car Sa tra tire eve OVt efft tra mu Th br~ bo1 in sta Th sen by 1\ C< in of At Wf l 1 . ....

b~ by he ey at .. co 'N€0 tdJtfi!NSJs, Tuesdft}, Jani;'aJ..~9fiir .i91JYn ___,.;;... ~ ' News Briefs WrestliMg witlt about 2S . Qthers, including Continu.edfr()m Page4 Larry Miller, stolllping him 16-6. Excuses and Promi.ses SUNY and RPI and general · ·v • . F h f 'b h' d .· · ... · · b. · 1-0 and 7-1-2 respectively. Zullo eeemart t en came. rom e m , c. om. mumty members, to AI any 1 'b t d · ht p 'nts 1 t·h with a .point for riding time to P t A th 't . con n. u e etg . ot o c . or :t.l. or.' y. . . Garnet efforts with two major sal v.age a draw with At .dockstde, the .partacapants decisions and Freeman added Zi.ndler. Andre Paquette and Union is facing Williams in a big brandashed appropnate . posters another eight with a pin and a Frosh Tom Everett. combined basketball game, and WRUC is all and sang. and chanted for an h?ur draw. Freshman Andre Paquette for twelve team p~>ints, each man set to carry a live broadcast ofthe and a q.uarter. Meanwhtle, still holds a clean slate of 4-0,.() pinning his opponent in the first event. Then, minutes before the representatives of the group were h d . h. . . . ' ·pet:iod. Freshman Scott Medl.a ·t ·.. · · ·. · · ·r. 1· 1 t · t p t as e earne . t e team mne pomts gam\ (·•\fyou· t·•'v.._t.·n Fox D. a''!'dson rymg· unsuccess U .~ o ge · or · h d · · · d · · Th added another two t·o the earl\' ........ ·. . ... . . ' . ;Y·. • A t·.h .'t ... f .. f' . ·1 t\ llowthemto Wit a ects~on an. a P•~· rce . . ::I South, Smith House, McKean, u on yo _ICt~s oa · .··· out of hls four wms are scoring by wrestling to a Alpha Delta Phi, Chi Psi, Psi b9ard the ~htp .m. order to present accounted for by pins. stalemate w·ith G;~ry S-.;:hrock. Upsilon, or Sigma Phi). the signal the captam Wtth let!ers and ln the dose battle between The second victory for the nearly vanishes from your· radio .packages bound for Sov1et Jews. Union and Kings Point, the Garnet grapplers was again set. YoucutseyourequipmenHor The.Albanyportwaschosenasa lightweights built-up an early commenced by Mark Zullo, its failure and hea(J next door to good Pl.ace to . hold a lead of 204. The Middies then drilling his challenger by a score listen·withyourne~ghbor'sset. But, demon;stratton for Sovtet Jews,as· jumped the score to 25 ~2o •. but a of 17~2. Freeman followed next you bump into that same neighbor the. shtps ~ere here to transport pin from the \champ;' Howie by finally pinning Romagnoli in who was coming into your rol)m. gram back. to the U .S:S.R. Many Benedict enabled the Dutchmen the third period after a lengthy Then it 9aw. ·ns on yo1,1. WRUCbas people feel the. ,Un~te<L States . . · 'r· · b. h' d . d. · 26 · t1,1ssle. Paquette. fu11ther improved .. . ·t: .. - ··ld. ·. \\ ~.,. :ii.J.I''· '· : \'.' t t.h to come rom e m an.. wm - had an inslir.tnol;lrita:J,le .. tMhttical suQu no~ ~ s .. mg g~al~ o e 25. I h k problem. U.S.S.R. whtle there !l,re stdlJews Zullo opened the scoring with fl ••. ·.ms. r.·· . • ·Is... W. . e.e· ·.· The distortion was caused by trappt;:d there. h' .fi· ·t · d · ... · Wh'l th d'd t t t Is Irs maJor ec1s1on over over-(lr.iving the first audio stage\ . k 1 e~ h. e groul? 1 nofi 8 1 e h 0 ·~~ (6J7)> in th~ transmitter. spea tot ecaptam,most ettat Replac¢p]ent part!) for this vintage the demonstration was still a transmitter at\e hard to come by s1,1ccess anyway) for because of eveil in the daytime, let along: at 'their efforts, more people were 7 45 W d d . · ht ma.;le a wan~ of the .plight of Soviet : p.m .. on a .. e nes ay mg .. As a result, only half of the campus Jewry. recc:;ivedagoodsignalofthegame;s V· . H:OO·'·P· events. Thursday saw a station spokesman .apologizing for the problem and promising \AU will be Continued from Page 4 back in order by Saturday night.;' 14.6 ppg. WiUiams is the leading Indeed, the proper repiacetne.Pt tebounder. parts were founrl and the station Utica is 5-ll, playing Hartwick came crisply to life tnid:.day tonight, after a tough and heavy S d H h early season schedule. Senior atur ay. oweve.r, t .e transmitter was still laboring with Dave Owen,. a 6-5 forward, tired parts and, sometime Sunday figures to break the Utica career evening the 8008's (rectifiers)arced scoring record against Union as over and blew the main breaker, he nee.ds only 25 points ~nd is effectively shutting down the averagm~ 16 a game. He 1s also transmitter once again. ''This is too . the t~am s top re?ounder: . much!\ some were heard to cry. Wtth ~wens.~~ t~e ltne~up. IS The techcrew(crack team that it is) flashy Rtck Wtllt~ms, 5-8 JUmor braved the blizzard conditions and at. l6 ppg, 6-4 sento~ B<;>b. Bennett bought new 8008's, which resulted wtth IO ppg, 6-I . JUnior ~a~ry in the return of the signal. \Will it Spann- a.t II ppg, and 6-0 JUntor stay?\ the cynics mumble at meals. Btl! Davts,. 7 ppg. . . . The answer from the tech team is a\ Drew IS S-5, With Upsala semi-emphatic \yes!\ Tuesday, and led by · underclassmen seems to be H11 . 1 -- . e I p 1 ·.c·k e t s bouncing back after several . · seasons in the basketball Sovre·t \''Ship' s. - ~e~~1:s~:!· al'eL;F:~~~;n Vte~~ Shepard and Gary Jones, both 6- by 2 forwards. Ed Osterhout, a 5-1 I MARCY KATE. SCHWARTZ senior guard, is also a double. Last Tuesday, a group of Union figure scorer for Drew but has College Hillel members took part been sidelined recently with a in a demonstration forthe freedom back injury. of Soviet Jewry atthe Aibany Pott The Union freshmen will play Authority where two Soviet ships their counterparts from Trinity, were docked. Utica and Drew in 6 p.m. The Hillel members arrived at preliminary games this week. Tempie Israel in Albany at about 3:40 p.m. From there they went yrgently Needed! Married couples to babysit part/full time. Permanent live in' situations available for this semester. Work as much as you want. Call University Family Services Inc. (Agency) 456·0998 HEC.K'·S FOR LIQUOR AND WINE Try Jc:Jce Lipsteiti's 464 State Street FR4·1888' ···········:······· : JAY' I . - . . WRUC PROGRAM NOTES Monda,y: 9-10 p.m. An Hour of Soul Monday~Ftiday: 6-7 p.m. Chris Fink ••M usic to Munch By\ Tuesday: 9-10 p.m. George Lipsky's \Performing Live\ featuring Dennis Burstein Tuesday: Midqight- 2 a.m. Dave Wi.Iliams Showtunes Wednesday: 9-10 p.m. New Albums with Chuck Rothman Featuring Traffic, \Shoot Out at the Fantasy Factory\ and also Elton John, \Don't Shoot Me - I'm Only the Piano Player\ Wednesday: Midnight-2 a.m. Curtis Abbott, The Best in Comedy Thursday: 9-10 p.m. \Now the War is Over What Happens to All These Songs?\ Sunday: 10 a.m.-Noon Footsteps. with \The Hangover Show\ JULES ET JIM Francois Truffaufs modern classic about two friends in love with one woman (Jeanne Moreau). Director Truffaut makes use ·of several \dated\ conventions from the silent era in a modern idiom. Perhaps the most celebrated film produced by the \New Wave.\ Wednesday, January 31. 2:30 p.m. SS016; Friday,February 2. 3:00 and S:OO p.m. ' MILLION DOLLAR LECS Similar to the Marx Brothers' \Duck Soup\ in many ways, this superior American comedy concerns the ltladcap misadventures in the fictitidus kingdom of Klopstikia. Stars W.C. Fields and Jack Oakie. Wednesday, January 31.7:00 and 10:00 p.m. SSOI6. Film Haps. Admissi .. on $1.00. SUNDAY, BLOODY SUNDAY Excellent drama about a young man and his two lovers, one a homosexual doctor and the other an intelligent divorcee. Stars Glenda Jackson, Peter Finch. John Schlesinger, who dir~cted Midnight Coa·hoy, has constructed this award-winning film beautifully from a screenplay by Penelope Gilliat. Saturday and Sunday, February 3 and 4. 7:00, 9:00 and II :00 p.m. SSOI6; Film Haps, Admission $1.00. HIROSHIMA, MON AMOUR Alain Resnais' film version of choisisme, but with M ES SAGE \rritten all over it. A Japanese man and a French woman are bound together by having experienced the inhumanity of war. The extended sequence composed of pictures from Hiroshima makes this film inadvisable for the squeamish. If ·you liked \Last Year at Marienbad,\ you should like this one; if you didn't, stay home and do something exCiting, like watchy6ur roommate sleeping. Monday, February 5. 2:30p.m. SS016. Lab fee course. ##H~·~H~H#~ PYE meets again this Wednesday night at 7:00 in the basement of the infirmary. It is hoped that people wiH be found who are willing to work on some of the projects that have been outlined There is a position open at B· L I T·. H. E R:· Saga's West College dining hall as breakfast cook. You would work ;:.·\ ... ---------- four mornings a we' t<: and would James Q. Wilson, Chairman of get full twenty meal board plus a the Department of Government at little pay. If interested, contact Harvard University, will lecture on Torn Lundquist, John Fink or \Heroin and Pllblic Policy in Mike Milsom at West. America\ at 8:30 p.m., Tuesday, * * * * February 6, in SS016. There will be a Hillel meetingon * * '* * Tuesday, January 30 to elect Anyone inte.rested in officers for the. coming year. The participating as a subject in a meeting will be held at 8:30p.m. in psychological research project, Hale House Student Lounge. It is please call Jeff Weilburg or Dick urged that all interested people Hamill, anytime, at 370-5855, or attend. come over to 251 Davidson. Levrs .. : To be eligible to be a subject, you , must be either male or female. Also, you must either have been i practising Transcendental Meditation regularly for at least six months, or have never practised Dave's. M~ns Shop 453 State St. (downtown Schenectady) any meditation or mind control L-....:.;;;.;;;....;...------~--J.. techniques. - Interviews can be set up any night at your convenience. Further infermation will qe given at the interview. PROCTOR 1 ~ -~ ~>~.:~·~ '-.eo. '1-' .; .. tJ;.t S1ATf ::, T S8HENEC11\~: Jan 23 • Feb_ 8 · Walt Disney's Classic Participation will be a different and interesting ex:perience. Please call us - we need your help. * * * * * * * * The International Relations Club and the Non-Western Seminar invite you to attend a lecture by Mr. Stewart Scheuer on \The U.S. and Japan~ The Best of Friends on a Collision Course Again?\ on Monday, February 5, in. the Social Sciences auditorium at 8:00 p.m. U.S.-Japan relations are an important key to peace in Asia. Come and hear Mr. Scheuer's analysis. * * * * The Chitago Conspiraey Trial Travel &.reau SWORD IN lHE STONE • • BiiUard .•. : · andThe Silver Fox Harry Tipton, Ltd., in association with Out .. to-Lunch Productions, presents \Life Amongst the .Morally Deficient,\ or \Turn Your Head and Cough,\ a new play by Mark Boylan and Peter Tarshis on February 3rd in Arts 202 at 8 p.lll. and again 9:30 p.m. This tender tragicomedy brings all your fav.orite cartoon characters to life on the glittering golden Cabaret stage. Stars like Tom D'Aioisio, who slithered his way on his belly into the hearts of hundreds in \Disnetia\ last spring, and Nancy Golden, our lovely Babe in Marineland, will be sure to please even Tim Cain. (The United States of America vs. David T. Bellinger and Others \The Chicago Seven\): A dramatization of one of the most important confrontations of the century. Following the riots at the 1968 Democratic Convention in Chicago, the defendants. were charged with conspiracy to incite a riot. Their trial lasted from September 1969 to February 1970. Few trials in history have received as much news coverage as the Chicago Conspiracy Trial. Few have been as legally important. Few have raised so much controversy over precisely what happened in the courtroom. This film, which won a blue ribbon in the 1972 American Film FeStival, is jointly sponsored by the Political Science Department and the Political Forum. February 1, 2:30 and 7:00p.m., SS 016. MOHAWK MALL 370•0814 :: Lounge :· and Mr. Davenport =· 167 Jay St. :. Feb· 9 • Feb 13 • -RELAX- •. l5l Ba;rett St. i PLAY POOL ! SNOWBALL 346-343l § .• Daily 10-10 p.m. • EX . RE S No·S.er\'il'l.' Charge• ·~. • Sunday 2-S.p.m. .•. P · S 'r,~~~~~~~~~~~ .. ~-~·~·~·~·~·=·~·~~~·~·~~~·~·~··~==::::=:::::::~ BOULEVARD BOWL 1315 Erie Blvd. 40 AMF BOWLING LANES 374-4171 Bowl for Health RESEARCH MATERIALS All Topics Send .for your descriptive, up-to•date, 128·page, mail order catalog of 2,300 quality research papers. Enclose $1.00 to cover posta&e and handling. RESEARCH UNLIMITED 519,GLENROCK AVE., SUitE 203 LOS ANGELES, ·CALIF. 90024 (213) 477·8474 • 477·5493 \We need a local salesman\ Tickling the 88's will be our own Mr. Music, Phil<Jruppuso (listen for his interpretation of Cool.Jerk), and narration will b.e provided by Colonel Beauregard B. Beresford. Admission to bMh performances will be 50 cents. Admission to one performance will be $1.00. All proceeds, of course, will be going to the Juan Corona Legal Defense fund. The usual refreshments will be repeated. * * * * Matthew Troy, New York City Councilman and Queens County Democratic leader, will speak in Old Chapel on Monday, February 5 at 1:30 p.m. The subject ofT roy's talk, which is being sponsored by the Political Forum, is \Should New York City Be the 51st State?\ Dave's·l\<tens Sbop 45J §~\:!111.: S1. f~~otm€own § · ·-..:n:sctl'i.G. I , ~~~· ><3tllll'f I \'io!;l\~;nQ.).._~ ,..,_,'MiltO.~<ft ~-• ~.._,_.,

Page4 Tuesday, Januan· 30; 1973 Bill Mowrey Breaks Old Record As Spikers Split · Bob Baribeau, .JruMI pole \'oufler who cleared 12 feet photo by Bin Erichson Frosh Hoop by BILLY DeB EAR The freshman basketball team kept its winning streak alive, but had to go into overtime before finally turning back a stubborn Siena squad, 69-,59. Prior to the contest, the Union players were aware that Sieria would be a worthy opponent. AU season long, the local Schenectady newspapers had been gtvmg much coverage to the attempt by Siena to build a strong basketball future. Waving lucrative scholarship offers in the faces of many high school seniors, Siena was able to attract enough talent to compile a 7-2 frosh record. Also the visitors had beaten R.P.l., a team that took the Garnet down to the wir-e in their opening game. It seemed that the publicity that preceded Siena to the Memorial Field House paralyzed the Union players early in the game as the· visitors jumped out to a 16-6 lead. a deficit of which had never been faced by the freshmen. However, Siena must have wondered why it hadn't waved an offer in the direction of the Garnet's Steve Kelly, as the 6' 3\ guard single handedly kept Union in the game during the first half. Kelly, who probably turned in the finest individual performance of the season, tallied 32 points and what seemed to be as many rebounds, as he was the catalyst in the Union comeback. The first half concluded with the score knotted at 24, the lowest opening half total for the Garnet this season. The second half proved to be very similar to the first as neither team was able to open a cons:ide ra ble lead. Kelly continued to provide most of the Union offense, and he, Bill Coppula a11d John Raymond grabbed most of the rebounds. Union was hampered by the loss of Bill Henson Who spent much of the game in foul trouble. Continued on P-ge 2 by ALISON SLOAT It was a fight to the end Saturday in the triangular track meet involving Union, Lehigh, and H(lmi!ton. The last race, the mile relay, was the determining factor. So many times before the fate of a meet has rested on the mile relay and so many times before the Garnet spikers have ceme through and emerged victorious. This Saturday the mile relay was once again the telling tale. Union's relay team. David White, Freddie Pressley. Dave Ricks, and Tim McCabe, sped to another first place victory, in 3:36.5. There was, however, one sad twist to this week's stery. Before the relay the scores read-Lehigh 56, Union 51%, Hamilton IOY2. Had Hamilton oQtstepped the Lehigh relay team the Dutchmen could have walked away with a. win over Lehigh by Y2 point. As it was, Lehigh turned in a 3:43.6 second place time and left the DQtchmen defeated by 2Y2 points. The- final score Lehigh 59. Union 56Y2. Hamilton 101;2. Union has never beaten Lehigh but this 1973 indoor track team has cut lO · points from last years difference. Lehigh has underestimated Union for the last time. Last year only one of their weightmen, (who was not their best), made the trip to Schenectady where he was met and defeated by then freshman Bill Mowrey. Saturday there were. tpree Lehigh shot putters, all of whom qtralified for the finals along with Mowrey and Bo·b Cable. Mowrey led going into the finals by I Yz\ and therefore was the last to throw. Derwin of Lehigh was at this point second. On his last put Derwin out distanced Mowrey by over 3\. Bill Mowrey stepped into the circle, I sr and 2nd place to be determined on this, his last attempt. A nervous crowd watched as Mowrey let lose a 50' II~\ put which not only won the event, aggrevated Derwin and the other Lehi~h shot putters, and excited the fans, but also broke his own Union College shot put recerd by 3%\. John DeStefano had an excellent day despite haviJ1g to divide his time between the long jump and the high jump. \John De\ leaped 20' WW' to capture the long jump and then came back to high jump 5' 10\ and finish second to a 6' jump by Stan Jackson. AI Gilewicz tied with Dale Garrett ·of Lehigh for third jumping 5' 8\. The two mile relay team fired themselves up and all but lapped the relay team from Lehighleav_ing an easy leg for anchorman Tim McCabe. McCabe together with Greg Hamlin, Scott Ka'lina, and Mark Mindel turned in a time of 8:22,3. Co-captain McCabe came hack to run a wining I: 16.3 600 yd. run. McCabe was followed in by junior David White who finished second in 1:18.0. Two freshmen, Milt Herring and Robert F. Baribeau, exemplified why Union is to be reckoned with in the future. Herring crossed the finish line first in his qualifying heat and returned to win the 50 yd. dash in 5.6 seconds. Baribeau, Maine's 1972 state champion in the. pole vault, cleared 12' to head the Union sweep. Dave Ricks and Bill Clayton each cleared ll' 6\ fer second and third place, Ricks second on fewer misses. Last week at the Cornell Invitational co-captain Tim McCabe stepped to a 1:57.5 winning Hme in the championship 880 yd. run. The two mile relay team turned in an exceptional time of 8:12. The relay team- Mark Mindel. Steve Jones, Greg Hamlin, and ~on Warner divided the 8:12 time: l :59.5, 2:00.5, 2:01.5, 2: I 0.5 respectively. In two weeks the Union thinclads travel to compete in the Rochester Relays. The Dutchmen, who are three deep in each field event should fare well along with their solid ranks of runners. Super soph Bill Mowrey, who Sl'l a m~'t' Union College record in the shot put with a toss (?l 50' 11 1 1/' in the recent triangular meet. Bill alw held the old (Inion record at 50' 8\. photo by Bill Erichson Garnet Grapplers Even Off At 4-4 by KIPP .It was a nifty day for coach Gerry Everling last Saturday afternoon when the Union grapplers met Kings Point and. St. Lawrence University in a home triangular meet.. It was a close and exciting fight from the start, and the Garnet came together to· emerge victorious over both teams. Garnet To Host Trinity And· Drew This Week . Last Wednesday, when Union faced Springfield, Dartmouth and Cortlan~ in a quadrangular meet, &t Springfield, the Dutchmen broke their losing streak by claiming two wins over Dartmouth and Cortland. Their team record now stood at 2-4-0 with a triangular meet still ahead. These two wins, after such a sad start, .sparked the Garnet spirit and created a new outlook of optimism for the remainder of the season. This aim was further fortified . by the two wins Saturday, leaving Union. with a respectable record of 4-4-0. The Union College basketball team hosts Trinity Wednesday, then returns from a game at Utica Frirlay to play Drew at home Saturday in the season's first three game week. The Dutchmen are now 6-4 Stt?l'l! Kel~a·, who led all froNh storers with 32 poinls in Friday night's win over a Jou}fh Sima / .. . l·l't?. photo by Les Kernan following a 65•63 victory over Williams at Williamstown. For scoring-poor Union, it was a tremendous shooting night of 45 percent from the field, coupled with what has been the club's mainstay for the season -- a solid defense -- that keyed the win. Tom Bacher broke a slump with 21 points against the Eph~. while Geoff Walker added 17. Junior- Luke Dillon, a starter at guard until sidelined by a knee injury three weeks ago, may sec some reserve action this week. But top front-court reserve Tom Combs missed the Williams game with a torn tendon in his hand and most likely will not play this week. Wednesday's opponent Trinity, 3-5, has been helped the past week with the elevation of Othar Burks to the varsity squad. The 6- foot freshman has averaged 10 points a game in two games and teams with 6-0 senior Keith Klevan, also a 10 point scorer. in the Bantam hackcourt. Levrs Dave's. Mens Shop 453 State St. (downtown Stltenettady) In the frontcourt, Trinity starts three double figure scorers in 6-4 Nat Williams, I 8.6 ppg, 6-3 Bill Fenkel. 13.3 ppg, and 6-2 freshman Wayne Sokolowsky, Team captain Mark Zullo and sophomore Bruce Freeman still hang on to commendable tallies as they brought their records to 9- (:ontinued on Page 3 Continued on Page 3 -- - - - Brothers III WEEKLY SPECIALS ) LUNCHEON SPECIAL ) 1.4 lb. Roast Beef Sandwich w /french fries & a draught beer $1.25 (other sandwiches available) Wed: 9-11 p.m. I Reduced Draught prices ) Thurs: Wine & Cheese night cover charge 50¢ 1 Sour Hour 4-9 P.l\f. 1 drinks 50¢ ) A Plate .of Cheese & Crackers & a glass of Wine Sl.OO FOLK SINGERS Friday Nite: 9:30-1:30 A.M. Cheese & peanuts availobl~ at all times. - - - .... - I - J ch su lm VO m• (p an an co W! ha p~ w; th as (, ta ~t• fo in n< m Tl su D a~ ht m B pi OJ H t~ e: p a s. a \ I 1:

