the Syracuse's Walker one in. incredibly came less than had tending look ly able to this s opened of the White's taking a n saved. attempt The 2 point contest. by Garnet Jerry of the was the last Allison he first dry DPhi, to the on the were third had goal left Jim the chip ehind an able the last to and the ~till of of as heir ' North/ South Viet fund by JAY.O'BRlEN and WOODY GUTHERZ Throughout the Vietnam war, the American Friends Service ' Committee has adhered to the policy which it has followed in other civil and international conflicts: to bring impartial, non- political, humanitarian aid. to civilian victims on ,each side ·Of the conflict, irrespective .. of the .religion, race, or political sympathies of the individuals. In 1966 the AFSC began its service programs in Vietnam. ln October of that year thtf;Service Committee receive(·{; ·u . .S. Treasury i:X;partment licerlses fer transmittal of $6,000 for ' . ica:l aid to :civ.Uians anyw · in Vietnam~-S(:)tith or North.·· Soutb Vietnam Liberation Front gave the AFSC written acknowledgement of the Commission on Public Health's receipt ·Of these supplies. The cost of the penicillin, and syringes for its injection, was $.10,580. North Vietnam In May 1969 the AFSC sent a member of its Board of Directors to ascertain through detailed discussions with the North Vietnam Ministry ef Public Health in Hanoi those medical needs of civilians with Which the AFSC might assist. The Ministry of Public Health advised the AFSC representative that heart surgical equipment for the Viet- nut .Hospital was the most pressing civilian need. The Viet- Due Hospital servt;s ·qlllY civilian patients and ·is the principal teaching hospital in North Vietnam. This hospital had been extensively damaged by the American bombings .of Hanoi prior to 1968 and is still in Vietnam. (b')\for the North Vietnam heart and neuro-surgical equipment program, and (c) for humanitarian a-id to all sections of Vietnam as they may become possible Linder a cease- five. l3e.ginning tomorrow, and continuing ·through next week, people wiH be conducting a room- by-room canvass fo.r the North/South Viet Nam Fund. The money collected wiH be sent to the AFSC who will then d;i-stribute it to the designated areas in Viet Nam. In addition there are several fund-raising activities being planned for Pa-rent's Weekend. ·Leroy Moore, Assistant Director of Admissions, and Chris Upshur, a former Union student, performing in the play Wine In The Wilderness which is playing tonight through Saturday in Nott Memorial Theatre. photo by Hershel Raff In May 1966, the AFSC programs in Quang Ngai were establis.hed. Dudng the succeeding years., the Committee has conducted a rehabilitation program for war injured civilians, provided medical care for the inmates of the Province prison and developed a day--care center for refugee children. The Rehabilitation Center which is operated under an agreement with the South Vietnam Ministry of Heahh provides prostheses artificial arms and legs - for amputees, physical therapy for burn patients and for patients learning to use prostheses, medical attention and orthope<;lic surgery, and a hostel for patients who live outside Quang Ngai city. Over the years the Center has aided thousands of patients. process of reconstruction. The heart .surgical supplies were purchased under the U.S. Treasury Department license for $25,000. This equipment was delivered to the hospital by f\FSC representatives in 1969, 1970 and 1971. Each visit for the delivery of founded at Union CfJlkgt iTJ 1877 Vol. 102,. No. 44 Tuesday, May 1,, 1973 20 eents Politics and Sen. Mondale Quaker Service is also helping patients with their economic and social rehabilitation so that they will be able to earn their livings, to return to their families, and to receive such continuing medical attention as they require. Wheel- chair and crutch-making eriteqjrrses ~are bdng- carried on by patients in conjunction with the Center. Small grants ($10) are made to patients to help them establish themselves in a craft or . in small shopkeeping. The annual budgets f~r the AFSC programs in Quang Ngai are $158,000. From 1966 through the fiscal year 1972-73, the AFSC will have expended $1 ,440;000 in the Quang Ngai programs. P.rovisional Revolutionary Govern·ment Areas (formerly National Liberation Front) In 1968 the A FSC sent procsine penicillin for civilian war sufferers in NLF controlled area. The Committee had undertaken ·careful discussions with the representative . of the Front's Commission on Public Health in order to determine what medical supplies would be most appropriate to the needs · of civilian injured in areas under the Front's control. The medical representative of the National heart surgical equipment also Tension and conflict between p to vi d ed the A F S C the President and Congress and rep resen ta tives a series of the subject of campaign fu.nd ing opportunities to present our were the two topics touched upon concern on behalf of prisoners of by Sen. Walter F. Mondale, war. Democratic Senato,r from On October 26, 1971 the . Minnesota, speaking .before an American Friends Service. overflowing crowd in S.S. 016 on Committee received licenses for Tuesday, April 24th. Guest the purchase of further heart speaker of the Political Forum, surgical equipment; these licenses Senator Mondale quipped to the were granted by the U.S. audience that he was \'honored as Commerce Department and· the a Democrat to see the U.S. Treasury Department In the microphone l am talking into.\ amount of $90,000. The AFSC is The constitutional issue now urgently seeking t0 raise the between the President and the funds needed for these new Co.ngress haP developed, purchases; purchase of these according to Mondale because the SUpplies is being mac:Je' .as funds !)'Fesident· ·has used \undefined for this purp.ose are received. powers to reduce or eliminate The delivery of the fourth programs he doesn't believe in.\ installment of these supplies was The result ha(> been that· the made in July, 1972 by : AFsc· President has eliminated or representative;s, one of wQom is a p .ropo ses to e I imina te ptqminent Ani~ri~an f!1e9ical approximately I 00 programs specialist and the other a staff dt!itling with ·social welfa,re. member of the AFSC. At the time Congress, Mondale has said, is of their visit the_ North \hardputtodeterminewhattobe Vietnamese authorities requested done in order that the President that the Service Committee obey the law.\ The result has been- include some medical equipment that Congress has pressed three for the North Vietnam Red Cross lawsuits involving the Presidential in forthcoming shipments. The cut in funding programs for Commerce and Treasury poverty. highway funding and Department licenses have been d istlster relief. All three of these amended accordingly. Purchases lawsuits were won, establishing for the fifth shipment are now the principle \that it is the being made, and the Committee President's duty to uphold and hopes. to make delivery of them as institute the law.\ earlv in 1973 as the North The question of Presidential Vietnamese can arrange a visit. powers has also arisen with The Service Committee receives respect to the President's war- funds for Vietnam in any of the making powers. M ondale three following categories: questioned the authority upon (a) for the Quang Ngai which the. President's decision to rehabilitation program in South bomb Cambodia, Laos and North Vietnam is based. The last troops New.ly Elected Committee M.e.;m.bers having left Vietnam, the authority based on the protection of U.S. forces, is no longer valid. The power which the President has used in foreigh affairs is now being used in domestic affairs. This power. Mondale said, must be checked. \The President should respond to the Court decisions, if not. the Congress should counter-impound money for poverty progr!lms, if he does not obey the law.\ Larry Brown, President of the Steering Committee Delta Chi - 346-9973. Mark Young, Vice Presi.dent of the Steering Committee 110 Davidson - 370-0239. Cathy Iannelli. Secretary of the Steering Committee McKean - \346-9303. Class of 1974 Representatives . Don DeCesare, Sigma Chi - 346-9582. Pat Wardell, Phi Gamma Delta-346-0172 Class of 1975 Representatives John Dolan 257 Davidson ~ .372-9716 Debbie G Iasser 356 Fox -- 346~9692 ·,.·· ~ •• .f. ·~ C,t'ass ·tit 197'6- Rep.-~sentatives KqJtel Haver 3.1 1 South - 346-9861 Don Leach Edwards - 346-9658. All College Senate: Division I Howard Mastriani 256 Da-vidson ~- 372=9716. Division II Marty Berman 114 Fox - 346-9136. Division HI Sue Hick 207 Richmond - 3.46-9848. Division IV Peter Travino 107 South - 346-9419. At Large Paul Corwin 330 West - 346-9344. Active in the efforts to reform campa-ign funding, Sen. Mondale stated that the \country must come to grips, not only with the facts of Watergate, but the corrupting influence of money in politics. If not, a sense of alienation and distr Jst will grow.\ With campaign costs growing \scandouslously the ••cost of campaigns expose the whole system of Democracy to compromising, corrUP,ting, influences \ This latter statement was noted with respect to the Watergate issue. To pre-vent \espionage wire- tapping imd the payment of spies'' for occurlng in a campaign, Mondale emphasized \getting the curse of money off the backs of people in the American political system.\ He suggested instead a \system of public support, .prohibiting outside contributions\ and thereby \removing the temptation for corruption. •; 'f\llone:y should l>e m~ade available· 'to Presidential candidates to run their campaigns so they can· ··serve public, not private commercial interests ... Another sug.gestion by Mondale was that an independent office shoulcfbe set up to receive campaign fund re.;:ords with the \authority to prosecute suspicioned violations ef the law.\ Before closing his lecture and opening the lloor to questions, Sen. Mondale noted that \trust and faith\ must be fostered within the country in order for the democratic system to survive. A n s we ring a q ue st i on concerning his own campaign funding, Mondale was honest in admitting that he was not a \noble exception\ in regard to the methods he used to raise funds. \Large contributors do get to see me pretty quick.\ · Spea~ing again on Wa~erga~e, M ondaw s!lid: be · \hqpe~- · ~he President will investigate, appoint an independent prosecuter, and remove from office those who participated in it.\ · Running on a tight schedule, after answering several questions concerning watergate, u.s. involvement in NATO and the resumption of bombing in Noi'fh Vietnam, Sen. Mondale was forced to leave in order to catch a plane to New York City, where he was to niak:e 'an appearance on the \Today Show\ the next morning. Stratton Speaks On Budget Cuts by BILL TALIS \The Effects of the Federal Budget Cuts on the 12th Congressional District\ was the topic of discussion by Congressman Sam Stratton on Wednesday night, April 25th, in SSOI6, Congressman Stratton strayed from the announced topic and covered a wide variety of issues receiving public prominence. Before entering Congress, Stratton served on the faculty of Union College with the Dept. of Philosophy. and was elected Mayor of Schenectady in 1956. He has been a member 'Of Congress since I 958, and has remained e\tremely popular with his constituency, garn~ring an unheHeveable 80% of the vote. the largest Congressional victory in the country, in his re-election bid in 1972. On the issue of budget cuts, Congressman Stratton said. \We have tried to come up with some kind of legislation that would limit the ability of the President to impound funds.\ He cited the impoundment of Housing, OEO, and Water Pollution funds as withholdings obviously in con.flict with the intentions of the Congress, which had legally appropriated the money. Stratton pointed out that there are \only two months left in fiscal 1973, and we should start worrying about the 1974 budget and the President's proposals.\ Because the Presiden-t has set a budget ceiling of spending $268 billion, many programs ·are threatened with cutbacks or elimination. In Schenectady, Stratton says that the Schenectady Community Action Program and the Hamilton Hill Development are two such threatened programs. Turning to a subject of direct concern to Union College students, Stratton discussed the possibilities of cutbacks in federal aid, particularly the National Direct Student Loan and the Economic Opportunity Grant, which could result in reduced aid which students will be able to receive. Research funding, particularly concerning the medical field, is in jeopardy. \The problem with establishing a budget ceiling on monies spent,\ said Stratton, is to \make decisions to an alternative budget. The problem is how do you rearrange the budget. to come up with alternative figures'? Congress is battling for '73 funds when it should be concerned with fiscal '74, which begins in 60 days.\ Touching upon the crisis Congress faces, Stratton said, \The tenor of Congress these days is not very clear.\ He suggested that the Democratic leadership in the House has lost control, because of its failures at legislation. Continued on page 2

Page2 CQNCORDlENSIS, Tuesday, May 1, 1973 We regret\ any inconveq:ence this may have caused those who wanted to see Claire's Knee at 9 P.M. on Saturday and we hope that no more showings will be canceled due to equipment failure. If you did get turned away please remember that his was not Film Haps' fault. Investigations and Analysis To The Editor: Ah! The joys of Spring abound around us! Buds are coming out, the playing fields are .recovering their verdant hue, birds can be heard singing in the trees, occasionally the sun can be glimpsed, and dogs are humping in front of Schaffer Library. Many people have argued pro and con concerning the presence ~:~-nd suitability of dogs on ·campus. Now I ask you, without Them running unleashed in Spring and \doing it in the road\ (or anywhere else for that matter) what else would we have to symbolize our \free spirit, open and hack -to-nature lifestyle?\ Just think. Next Spring, as a result of this Spring's accomplishments. there will be so many more of our canine companions to let us know where it's really at. Name withheld by request To The Editor: I would like to take this opportunity to express my appreciation to everyone for their. support in this past Tuesday's election. It is an honor for me to accept the position of Secretary. I hope that in the next year I will be able to improve communication between the students and the student Jim Alberg '74 Director of Projection Facilities Dear Sir: I would like to take this opportunity to thank the Union College Maintenance Department for their total cooperation and support during the past weekend's activities. A remote radio broadcast entails the transportation of a large amount of equipment and personnel. WR UC had two remotes last weekend, and without the aid of the Maintenance Ambulance, this arduous task would have been near impossible. Having the luxury of our personal moving van made the job easier and more enjoyable for all. From the Staff and Management of WRUC, a sincere thank you. Chris Fink President WRUC by DON KRONE ' What do operations research graduate students do in their spare time? Probably a variety of things in general, but one in particular seems to have wa.J:ked into the weH p a,id but controversial position of. I'Unnin:g the 11ewly opened College Center. Dave Gestwick, a 19:/2 ll nion graduate with a major In Math, was hired on April 15th. t0 take responsibility for the operati()-n of the Center until Dr. Mark Srnith assumes the Dean of Students position. Gestwick's status at that point will be determined by Dr. Smith. Rumors floated around fhe ·campus, some true and sotne false, concerning hi§ salary, method of obtaining the job,. and his duties. .1 will attempt to establish the validity of only those. statements which resemble the truth. Gestwick was salaried 0n a temporary basis through June· The first Steering· 15th. Reliable sources report his Committee meeting with the sa.Iary is $700 per month. When newly elected members will be asked to verify that stateJU.ent held Tuesday night, May 1st, Gestwick declined to state the in the Student Center Strauss exact amount. Lounge at 8:15. All students However, when questioned are invited to attend. · about the manner in which he got Aliiiiiliiiiiiiilillllliililiiiiiiilill•••• his job. some inter est ing hired someone, Gestwick stated, ·\It was the Administrative point of view that someone should be in charge until the. new Dean of Students got here.\ Gestwick met with the above mentioned committee scveraJ times. Having to deal with the. student committee, the Administration, and Maintenance has left Gestwick sandwiched somewhere in between. \I'm stuck between these gmups and thus far there has been a duplication of efforts in several areas.\ When as.ked if the this is not vital at present and may never be. This expenditure should also be questianed when $4,QOO cannot be found tcr fund the Hebrew program. Nothing is being held against Mr. Gestwick, but it seems that there is not enough work to necessitate hiring someone to run the Center. * * * * The Bookstore will be moving into the basement of the Center some time this summer ... All the office space is not designated at yet, but WRUC has occupied most ·of the prime second floor government. Please feel free at any time to ask me questions you havl': about the student government or to discuss any issues you see as important to the College. community. This Wednesday night will decide the fate of the Schenectady chapter of Protect Your Environment. On that night PYE will attempt to hold elections for the last time. The, last two attempts have failed, as there were only one or two people at each meeting, none of whom could .carry on th~ · presidency next year. paradoxes were revealed. In a recent interview Gestwick was asked, \Rumor has it that a Don Krone interviewing Dave Gestwick, manager of the College Center. Thank you again. Sincerely, Catherine E. Ianelli To The Editor: On Saturday night, April 21, the equipment used to show movies in SS 016 failed. By Sunday night (when this was written) we had a temporary set- up in place. The failure was entirely mechanical the projectionist was in no way responsible. . Film Haps rents_, as do all other groups in the College, lhe hall, the equipment, and the projectionist from the . College. They have no control over the quality of the showing, their only responsibility is in ordering the films and making sure that we get them. All year a few ..of us_ have been trying to holl! our own against that almost universal force at Union, Overwhelming Apathy. We have managed to keep a few projects going with tl\)e small amount of support we could muster, paper recycling being the most notable example. If you have any interest in seeing PYE continue, please come to the meeting. 7:00 Wednesday. in Silliman basement. CONCORDIENSIS founded at Union College in 1877 Editor-in-Chief.. .............................................. AI Reisch Managing Editors ..................................... Rita Morandi Dave Strom News Editors ............ , .. , ........................ Phyllis Edelman Marty Sherman Features Editor ....................................... .John Perlstein Investigations and Analysis .......................... Don Krone Associate Editor ....................................... Chuck Sabatt National Advertising .................................... Steve Kelly Sports Editor ......................... Bart Mercer Subscriptions ......... ~ ............................... Mik~·-Bernstein Business Manager .................................. Chris O'Connor Photo Editors .......................... Les Kernan · omee Steff Phil Alcabes Doug Carpenter· Gary Lovett lllyria Puharich Dan Rothblum Jeff Wei! burg Bill Erichson Robin Waring Bill West Concordiensis is published every Tuesday and Friday during the school year except during examination and vacation periods by the student body of Union College, Schenectady, N.Y. National Advertising Representative: National Educational Advertising Service, Inc., NYC. Editorial office, Old Gym Hall, Union College. Publication office, The Jewish World Publications, 77'1 State Street, Schenectady, New York, 12307 (346-2356). Entered in the Schenectady post office as Second Class Mail Matter. Subscription rate: 20 cents a copy, 8 dollars a year delivered anywhere in the United States. Deadline for all copy, which must be TYPED AND DOUBLE SPACED, is 7 p.m. on Monday and Thursday at the Concordiensis office, located in Stoller Hall above Old Chapel. The office phone nnmber is 370-6155, but the office is in use only on Monday and Thursday nights. FOR ALL EDITORIAL MATTERS CALL THE EDITOR~IN-CHIEF AT 346-9396; FOR INFORMATION CALL MRS. MARRA IN THE. ·sTUDENT ACTIVITIES OFFICE AT 370-61 I 8. person .1n Industrial Administration intercepted a metno concerning an opening in Administration was hindering in the College Center and passed it any way the functioning of the along to you without making it Center, Gestwick answered, \I public to anyone else. Is this haven't been hindered at all. Mr. true'!\ Enteman is truly interested in the Gestwiek responqed \that is success of the Center.\ completely false,\ but did g 0 on When Gestwick was hired, it to say that, \I did not submit a was thought that the Center was formal application. I heard about going to open on April 16th. an opening and went to see the However. since construction was Provost about it and 1 got hired.\ moving slow, the opening was Gestwick did not know if any()ne delayed u\ntil last .Friday. else applied for the job. Gestwick is in charge of the six It was recommended ·by the grant-in-aids who were hired a-s Student Center Committee, which · gua-rds. · was appointt;!d by the Committee fs ft necessary to have someone on Committees, that the posit·ion running the Center for two of an overseer for the Center was months, at a cost of$ I ,400, v,:hen not necessary. The Provost· · all that is open is a few rooms on overmled on that matter and the ground floor? It seems that Spring Concerts The Social Committee announc.ed the completed Spring Tertn schedule last Thursday at an open meeting attended by three students. There Were some surprises -~ Thelonious !VIo11k called in sick and cancelled all his May concert dates, including this Saturday's Parents\ W eeken<i concert at Union. The Committee has contracted the Charles Lloycd Quartet, another great name in jazz. to replace M on,k this Saturday. On Sunday of Parents' Weekend. the Union College Jazz Workshop will be performin-g outside (weather permitting:) from I :30 to 4:30 on Library Plaza. The Jazz Workshop received tremendous reviews f0r their performance in the Chapel two weeks ago. advertised as \Hot Dogs,\ and is being sponsored jointly by the Social Committee and the Parents' Weekend Committee. Spring Weekend falls on May ll-12-13. Starting off with fraternity patties and picnics.opm to the campus. the Social Committee is sponsoring a Datlce in the Gym (free to Un ioa Students with l.D.'s and .their guests) with· the New York City- based band, Sunn. To wrt1d U!* Spring Weekend, good otc· country music will be played by the Earl Scruggs Revue on Sunday. May 13 (Mother's Day). at B:30 in Memorial Chapel. Tickets are $2.50 for Union Students. available the week hefore the concert. Carnival Weekend follows Spring Weekend by only twelve days. Starting Friday, May 25. at H:OO P.M. with the Coffeehouse presentation of Bob Bernhardt, the Social Committee announced a midnight showing of the horror movie. Night of the Uving Dead, on the front wall of Schaffer Library. Saturday is full of outdoor dances (Daddy Longlegs, sponsored by ADP, and a Richmond Block Party of Union's own talent). and a movie by Film Haps .(Summer of '42). Sunday is also full of outdoor fun sponsored by the Social Committee, starting off with a country•rock band, Jonah, at ·1:00 P.M. on Nott Memorial Field. The Star- Spangled Washborad Band (of local fame) will be performing from 2 to 4, followed by .a square dance wit.h the Jeske Family Country Music Band. Beer and balloons will be available all afternoon. and Saga has agreed to serve Sunday dinner outside. with beer. The Committee has begun to look into talent for next term. Student opinion is more than welcome on ideas for different types of social events. d'ifferent types of groups, and entertainment preferences. Students should contact anv member of the Social Committe~. or the chairman, Peggy Miller (370-2493). to discuss their ideas. It was emphasized that now is the time to speak out about Fall Term concerts and entertainment. photo by Bill Erichson space... Only one-half of the furniture for the student lounge has arrived... The open space where the old stairs were removed will be transformed into informal lounge areas for day-to-day use because the main lounge area will not be open all the time ... Sometime this week the all~night study will be moved to the Center's third floor... Dave Gestwick's o(fice ho.urs, in the College Center, will be from 1-5 p.m.... Someone has destroyed the glass on one of the p.inball machines. which is not bad considering it has not yet been there a Wf;!ek ... Stratton Continued from page 1 During the question and answer period. it was suggested that if cutbacks. be made, the Defense Department is where they should be. To this, Stratton responded. \I don't have any particular cutbacks in mind. I do believe something may be cut out of the Defense Budget.\ However, he warned against large cuts from the Defense Budget; they would be detrimental to our security. \Since the Vietnam War is over, many feel we can safely cut out $10 hill ion. It is the large defense budget I feel that ·gave the U.S. the strength that resulted in peace. The perfect military establishment should be that it is ideally not challenged, and has deterred nuclear war.\ Of the Watergate ·A(fair. St.rattori said, \By the time Watergate .revelations come out. it\ quite possible that the President will lose some of the leverage in Congress he has exerted in the past.\ * * * * Admission to the Union College Glee Club's Parents: Weekend concert is free, for all Union students and their parents. with student identification card. Ad mission for faculty and staff is $1.00. General admission is $3.00. The concert will (eature guest soloist Betty Allen, mezzo- soprano, performing the three great works for male voices and men:o-soprano, Act Ill. Scene I from Verdi's II trovatore, Brahms' alto Rhapsody, and Schubert's Standchen. The concert will begin promptly at 8:30 P.M. in Memo.rial Chapel. ( t r f I c

is ng at ed e t CONCORDIENSIS, Tuesday, May 1, _1973 Page3 A New_High The Pinball A c/dict by DON \BO\ AMIRA It often begins. on a fateful day when th(! pusher comes to empty the tin and collect his profits. He removes the 'lid, disclosing the dealer's reward; the.cold cash that makes the risk worthwhile. The pusher is tough and merciless. He has to be. He easily shrugs off the fact that for every shiny quarter in the pinball machine, there is a cold corpse out there who did not find the risk worthwhile, He carefully fills the canvass sac, but before tying the secur.ing knot, he decides to gt:ance about.. He has no interest in the pinball addict- he knows he already has them in his clntches and on the road of no return. Rather, he scans. the onlookers, for the pure, the totally ut1experienced patr:on of the SkeUar. And just before leaving, he places a handfu,l of quarters on the machines. \Here vou go, feJias,\ he says as an evil ~mile creeps across his face. With this a devilish satisfaction, the pinball dealer knows he has made a good investmeflt. It is here the unsuspecting, innocent bystander becomes the victim of circumstance. He first heard of pinball at a party. lt was fun; it helps you forget your problems ... there's no tension - a flight from reality, a smooth trip. The peer pressure was not enough though, and the spectator's will remained unflinching. But there's an unwritren law in our Capitalist . society' that says: \If you are offered something for nothing, grab it.\ The addict quickly learns that the first trip was not for nothing , - that in the end you really ,pay. But, alas, his wisdom is acquired too late. The pinball spectator now faces the moment of truth. Suddenly, the lights, the bells, the urging, and the shiny quarters are too much for him and. his will succumbs. · As · he puts in the coin, the quick, sharp and penetrating pain near his heart is disregarded. As he pulls the springed knob, his veins bulge profoundly, but this too goes unnoticed. With the first free ball, he is well on his way. Th~t free quarters have disappeared, causing only a slight hesitation on the part of the novice. Then, as if by instinct, ~he hand finds the pocket. Before !eng. there is no more money, and the amateur pinball player leaves the Skellar in a stupor, but thrilled with his new means of escape. The next night, unsurprisingly, he is there again. And then, he begins to frequent the Skellar during the afternoons. He has entered the circuit and quickly picks up the jargon - \blown ''choked,\ \turn-it-over and \*C:'i-'?; ~stc:.\ He also begins to take on the characteristics of a pinball addict - short index fingers, an impression of a knob in the palm of his hand, and loose change. At first the habit only demands a few bucks a week, but .before PROCTOR'S ~~i-~g: . '8TAU ST., SCHENECTADY Starts Wed! Sisters \sex and violence blended with diabolical zest\ PLAYBOY \the most genuinely frightening film since Psycho.\ f-IOLL YWOOD REPORTER . long he needs 5 or 10 dollars a week to support the habit, Then, the first check bounces,. and the pinball player, still an amateur, quickly discovers those he can bormw from. Soon, the pinball addict finds his credit is a risk for others, and is forced to acquire the skill of scanning the coin return and the floor for his money. This practice is hardly lucrative, and just as he is getting desperate, he is appn:)ached with what seems is his salvation .... The Challenge. This involves the gamble of playing for nothing, if your own score exceeds the . challengers', or paying for the winner's game, if you lose ... thus, the amat.eur becomes the PROFESS ION A L. If the pinba,Jl player is skillful enough. he can support h-is habit for riothing for an infinite length of time. The best way to achieve this is to find a rich novice and take advantage of him. However, the average pinball player often falls · into the grasp of The Hustler. One can recognize The Hustler because he gets a minimum of five free balls per game, moves the· machine eight feet ·in every direction and NEVER tilts, and has calloused flipper fingers. The h\lstler, in short, never loses a challenge, and he drains. the mediocre players until they must hit the streets. It is easy to recognize the addict who is in dire need of a \flip.\ He claims of · hearing bells, has frequent finger convulsions, and makes outrageous challenges, spotting the opponent as much as 30,000 points. The last leg of the pinball addiction cycle usually ends in tragedy. The addict, having nowhere to turn, turns to crime for awhile; Petty thievery provides a sufficient income. Then, with his habit increasing at an incredible rate, the aadict' decides to pull off the Big Job. If successful, it means \easy street\: pinball for the rest of his life; nQ more challenges, no borrowing - Paradise. The target: the washing machine cash boxes in all the dorms' laundry rooms. lhe thought of so many quarters is orgasm for the pinball addict. Late one night, equipped with a bobby pin ahd dynamite, the addict pulls off the big caper. It goes without a hi.tch. That night he can't sleep and sits in his room behind locked doors counting and recounting his payoff. The next day, he heads toward the Skellar, laden and bent over with pockets full of . quarters. With just a fraction of his loot, he has enough for 41,327 games of pinball. Entering the Skellar, the addict is too engrossed with his money to notice those familiar chimes of the pinball machines are missing. He enters the door, turns left and stops dead in his tracks. The jaw falls below the belt, the heart momentarily stops, and the eyes swell. BOWLING! RIFLERY! How could they do this? No more p inba:ll! The addict falls -to the .floor sobbing hysterically. The road of withdrawal is .a hard one. There are no Pinball Rehabilitation Centers. The only other way is Cold Turkey. Very few make it. Don't start on pinball. My nam~'s Friday. The Social Committee is · presenting in concert for Parents' Week:end the. ren9wned jazz group, The ··Charles Lloyd Quartet. The . Concert wjl) be on &aturday, · May 5th, at 8:30 P.M. in Memorial Chapel. Tickets are . $2.00 for Union students and . their guests, and are available in the Student Activities Offtce and at Parents' Registration. Char.les Lloyd is replacing · Thelorrious Monk, who cancelled due to illness. * * * * lhe brothers of Chi ~si are having a Spring Happening on Friday, May lith, at 9:00 P.M. There will be two bands (Dixieland and Rock), a casino, and lots. of beer. Donations of one dollar will go to the New York District Chapter of the Nat io n·al He mop hili a Foundation. Tickets may be purchased from any of the brothers or at the Lodge. * * * * This year for the first time students are actively involved in the planning of Parents Weekend. A number of students are still · needed to help with registration this Friday evening between six and 7:30, and Saturday between the hours of nine and 12:30, and l:JO and three P.M. If you can help please contact Mark Shugoll at 370-0911, or leave your name with Mrs. Marra in the Student ActiVities Office as soon as pos~ib_Ie. '*. * * * The \Professor As A Scholar\ series presents Prof. Frank Gado {English) and Prof. Herbert Wylen (physics). They will discuss their research and how it relates to their role as teachers. They will be speaking on Friday afternoon, May 4 at 3:30. in Hale House Lower Lounge. All students, parents, and faculty are invited. Refreshments will be served. * * * * The ad hoc committee to consider the candidacy of Professor David Potts {History Dept.) for tenure has been formed and consists of Profs.: N. Allen (History), W, Daniels {Pol. Science), P. Kilburn (English), and J. R. S hanebrook ( Mech. Eng.), Chairman. Students are requested to submit written opinions on Prof. Potts to any member of the committee before _M_'!)' __ 14, J. ?73. _ •••••••••••••••• I HECK'S i . . ·• :Travel Bureau: Levrs- : MOHAWK MALL : ,, • 370-0824 • Dave's. Mens Shop 453 State St. (downtown Schenectady) \For three Generations' \' 166 Jay St. * For Honest Scnice And Good Jewelry • • • • • • 151 Barret St. • 1 346-3431 : • No 5ieni<·(J Charge I !!.. •••••••••••••• Cc:mcordiensis is introducing a new feature, to a,ppear regularly. \Campus Cookbook\ will present recipes for dishes th.at may be prepared in a dormitory room, using ·only the equipment generally found in student's roorns - a hot plate, two or three pots and pans, a broiler oven or electrcic skillet. Furthermore, we will present recipes which require a minimum .of expenditure in .both. money and time. F()r those aspiring chefs with more refined faci'lities or a better stocked larder,. the basic recipes given may be adapted or embellished. ·~campus Cookbook\ always weiC<Jmes contributions. Please type your recipes and submit ·them in the Concordiensis office above Old Chapel or in Colt~ordy\s box in the Student Acti-viti'(:s Office. RECIPE ONE Mother's Meatballs Jng~edients! I lb. ground beef l egg V4 cup liquid I ,'3 cup rice I tbs. onion {flakes) Y2 t sp. salt .. Yi tsp. chili powder * * * * I lb. can tomatoes (or Sauce) r cup water I tbs. onion (flakes) Y1' tsp. salt Y2 tsp. chili powder Y1 tsp. worcestershire sauce Method: · Step One: Combine first seven items form meatballs. Step Two: Combine next six items, bring to boil. Step Three! Drop in meatballs Step Four: Cover, cook slowly for one hour. Due to the success of the last Bake SaJe, we are having another on Parents' Weekend, Saturday, May 5th. Please bake whatever you can: cookies, brownies, cupcakes, pies, cakes, bread; help us make this a success. too. Volunteers are also needed to help sell~ perhaps a half-hour shift some tirne during the afternoon between 3:00 and 6:00 P.M. The money is going towards the North/South Vietnarn Fund, sponsored by SSAC. Bring goods to the site of the sale from 2:00 P.M. onwards, that is, the entrance to Jacksons Gard~ens or if it rains, to the Gym. Any <JUestions should be directed to Amy Smith in Fox House: 372- 6188, or Ann Bowley, Richmond: 346\9545. * * * * RECIPE TWO Brownie Quickies Ingredients: 26 square Graham crackers 1 can condensed milk Y2 package chocolate chips Method: l . Step One: Crush Graham crackers in a plastic bag until the consistency of Corn Flakes. Step Two: Place· crushed crackers in a bowl with milk and chocolate chips and stir. Step Three: Grease bottom of . square baking pan, or line with waxed paper . Step Four: Place mixture from . step two evenly in pan. Step, Five: Bake at 375 degrees about 35 minutes (or until toothpick comes out clean) Step Six: Invert and remove · waxed paper while still warm. Step Seven: Cool and cut into squares . RECIPE THREE Vegetarian Eggplant Ingredients: I Eggplant (medium to large) I onion (medium) I can stewed tomatoes {medium size) sugar, salt, pepper and spices Method: ' Step .One: Peel eggplant and dice into Y2 inch cubes Step Two: Soak the cubes in ·salted and sugared water to remove the bitterness ... drain. Step Three: Cut onion into \;2 rings and· smaller. Step Four: Mix eggplant, onions and tomatoes (undrained) · in sufficiently large pot. Step Five: Cook over medium heat, stirring frequently. Step Six: Continue stirring and heating until the entire mixture comes to a single consistency. .St.ep, Seven; ~ugar, spice and salt to taste. **Note: Further cooking will thicken the dish, if desire<L_ Who cares about apathy? If you do, and you want to help us do something about it, please come to a meeting of the Social Relations Club, Wednesday at 8:00 P.M. in SS 014. Maybe if we put ·your · ideas · together with mine, we can move people past talk into some social action. You do not have to join the Peace Corps to give one of the 168 hours in your week to someone who needs you. If you think there is nothing you can do to help, please tell me why at the meeting, or at 370-5988 ... ask for Tom Stimson. * * * * Chief Larry Lazore, an elected chief of the Mohawk-St. Regis reserve, will be speaking on the present situation of American Indians, on Wednesday, May 2, at 8 p.m. in _SSOI6. . ·~ THE OPEN DOOR. MCAT-DAT -GRE I LSAT -ATGSB j o-cAT Qya{.!:.!J .Book. Stor~ fl boofs for atC ages ~ 136 J& STREET . £Pen .Mcn:-Sai.+JO:Jo-s:3o Tliurs. tif{ 9:00 ~AT'L. BDS. • Prepar<n:ion .for tests required for admission to graduate and profes- sional schools • Six and twelve session courses • Smaflgroups *Vclllininousmaterial for home stud prepared by experts in each field *Lesson schedule can be tailored to meet incli.vidual needs. Lessons can be spread over a period of several· months to a year, or for out e>f tCJWn students, a period • of orw week . ~•C:lppDrlunityfor review of past lessonsviatape at the center Special Compact Courses during Weekends- lntersessions Summer Sts$ions STAN LEV H. KAPLA.N EDUCATIONA·l CENTER LTD. 1675 Eaot 16th Str..,l :Btooklyn, N. V u- · .. (212) 336-5300 -:.~-~ (516) 538-4565 . . . •• DAYS, EVENINGS, WEEKENDS Bnmche s in Major Cities in U.S.A. , The T~l<>~ilt8 S.!ool wilh th~ Nationwide Repuratioa I. Jfimw + 3t6'-Z71.9 ·-emne in aitd Growse.l Levrs • Dave's' Mens Shop 453 State St. (downtown Schenectady) ~ FOR LIQUOR AND WINE Try i Jake ! Lipstein's 'l: 464 State Street : -Downtown Schenectady § FR 4-1888 ~ I~~~.

Page4 Tuesday, May J, 1973 Thinclads Nip Rochester, 73-72 by ALISON SLOAT After solidly trouncing the Continentals of Hamilton, 91-48, the Garnet thinclads returned to Schenectady to splish and sp.Iash through the mud to a one-point squeaker, defeating Rochester 73- 72. Sophomore mus<;:leman Bill Mowery remained undefeated in the shot put and the discus, and high scorer for the team with double wins in both contests. Defying the bad weather on Saturday, Mowery bettered his competitors with distances of 48' \1:! ,. and 136' 6\ in the respective events. Mowery's fellow weightman, AI Gilewicz, battled the pouring rains to capture a victory in the javelin with a throw of 138'. Gilewicz later heaved the shot 42' 2·%\ for a second there. A mudd)' handojj' Saturday at the Meet Rochester built up points with sweeps in the mile, three mile, 120-yard high hurdles, and the quarter-mile relay. The biggest lead held by the Yellowjackets ·' photo by Kohel Haver * * * :j<· the Ad Hoc fenure tominittee for Professor Stephen Berk invites written student comments. A \teaching evaluation form\ is available in the Political Science Department Office (SS 216) for this purpose. The Committee will also be inviting, on a random basis. .a certain number of Professor Berk's students for a formal i!lteryie.w._ The latter randomly selected students will be contacted . ~.:ctly by the Committee at .. later date. ___ ..,. .... - ... -, • .,.j;. ~~ .. v~ =--- ... tevrs Dave's' Mens Shop 453 State St. l _(downtown Sch~nectady) 1, There are old people who need someone to talk to. Boys who need fathers. Guys in veterans' hospitals who need · someone to visit them. Kids who need tutors. We know lots of people and groups who need your help. Write \Volunteer tt.,A Washington, D,C. 20013. \Y' Weneedyou. The National Cwtcr for Voluntary Action. Lacrosse 1-Up, 1-Down by FRANCESCO ISGRO When they're hot they're hot, and when they're not... well they're not. Fresh with a victory over powerful Syracus.e University, the Garnet laxmen buried Colgate J4.,.5 on Wednesday, in the latter's fieltl. Then due partly to an increment in the weather ·over the weekend, which must have cooled down most of the players •. the Garnets dropped a 11-5 loss as hosts to Middlebury. Dennis Walker was the highest scorer for both games, tallying 6 times on Wednesday and three times on Saturday. The Garnets completely dominated the game against Colgate. Robert Grossman put our stickmen on the scoring board with 20 seconds gone on the clock. and one minute later he added another. Grossman also tallied early in the second period, and was credited with 5 assists. Stan White threw in 3 good ones, and Mark Walsh and Mike Fine added a goal each. No. 15 Don Kline had a couple of assists and Don Ward was credited with one. The contet'lt agains~ Mld,dleqU:ry was not a contest at all. One team was missing and it was Union. The Garnets w~ren/t J:illle to PU!I themselves t@getner . ahd phiy. Team Captain Stan White had the first tally for Union, and Don Ward added a second point. Leading scorer Dennis Walker added three more tallies for the Garnets to bring their score to 5, and that's how far. they went. This Wednesday the Garnets host Trinity on Daley Field at 3:30 P.M .. and Saturday they travel to Troy to meet Capital District rival R.P.I. Coach Alisson's team should secure both contests to get a winning season. tevrs Dave's' Mens Shop 453 State St. I (downtown Schenectady) I, - was 15 points, early in the meet. The Dutchmen met the challenge, taking firsts and seconds in the 220, 880 ancl long jurnp. Soph Chris Doulides sped to a 23.9 win in the no after having picked up .<:J t:hird in the hundred, repeating his Wednesday performance at Clinton. Jerry Cuffey grabbed second place in both sprints at nome on Saturday. Middledistance man Vito Stellato of Hamilton gave an outstanding show as he easily sprinted. the last lap of the mile to finish in 4.24.1, bettering Steve Jones' 4:25.0. Stellato returned to battle Tim McCabe all the way to the tape in the 880, enly to see McCabe cross for the win in l :59.3. Versus U of R. Mark Mindel. who had been only .03 seconds behind McCabe at Hamilton, answered the starter's gun with an early established lead which he held onto until the finish, defeating McCabe by .03 seconds with a time of 2:01.4. landing in a pit of mud rather than one of sand, John De Stefano leaped 20' 6V!I\ to outdistance fellow Dutchman Pete Walrath by 2\IR''. Walrath was a doublewim1er at Hamilton in b0th the long and triple jumps as John De and Brad Patterson were second place men in the respective events. Palumbo. of Rochester. who took third in the long jump, returned to win the triple jump at 43' 3%\ and see Brl.lc! Patt~rson and Pete Citarella p'icl< up' a Garnet second arid third. P<:JVe Ricj<s, winper in the pole. yault on both occasions at l3' and 12' 6\ battled Kessler of Rochester an9 Greg Harnlin to win the 440 yd. dash in 54.2. Frosh Bob Baribeau took a second and a third in respective pole vault contests, each at 12' The Garnet mile relay team remained undefeated with a 3:26.7 win at Hamilton and a suspenseful 3:35 .. 2 victory over Rochester. When anchorman Tim rvtcCabe received the ·baton the three previous legs had heeti run dead even. McCabe opened up and passed Miller of Rochester to beat the U of R team by 1.3 sec;;onds. ' McCabe was·· teamed with Oave Ricks, Jerry Cuffey and Greg Hamlin. Winning or losing depended 011 the ·high jump, the final event. With only one U0f R jumper left in the competition after the initial height the Dutchmen were assured a total victory when second and third places were grabbed by Stan Jackson and John De Stefano, at .6' and 5' 8\ Next Saturday Union will challenge Trinity College at Alexander Field, at 2:00 P.M. On· Wednesday, May 9, the thindads travel to iroy to take part in a turkey trot sponsored by the Engineers of RPI. BLITHER· . .. ' . . . . .. - Hillel Meeting Wednesday night at 7:00 p.m. in S.S. 112. Plans .for Israeli Independence Day;\ Holocau~t MelT!orial, and Russian Circus will be discussed. * * * * l:i illel Friday night Shabbat Services . every week at 7:00 in Arts 202. All are welcome. * * * * The folJ'ewing anrw'unceml'!nt is of major importance to all campus photographers plagued with an ~:rverriding need t~ sat-isfy an obsessive' . ego-ma·nra. Concordy is preparing f9_r its first big Spring Term photo contest. Here is an ideal opportunity to have your own personal work published in glorious magnificence. So start collecting your best shots and check for details in the next issue. LUIGI'S RESTAURANT SPECIALIZING IN Italian- American Food 1125 BARREtT ST. SCHENECTADY 01'6.-9744 Enjoy Sizzling Steaks and Chops Visit Our Cocktail Bar 0 0 r..-••·'- ot\'_.. \ ONCE A KNIGHT GAZETH lONGINGLY AT THE CASTLE OF THE WORLD'$ MOST BEAUTIFUL MAIDEt4 •.• WHEN A DRAGON OFFERED TO GAIN HIM ENTRANCE FOR THE FEE OF 2. 6-PACI<S OF \\WAIT HERE, THE DRAGON SAYETH, DISAPPEARING WITH THE BEERE ••• ........ (] W t1 ()PM A N SCHAEFER BfERE • \' r ( c ( t' (I } 'I (. (: l h a r -~ a \1

Page4 Tuesday, May 1, 1973 Thinclads Nip Rochester, 73-72 by ALISON SLOAT After solidly trouncing the Continentals of Hamilton, 97~48, the Garnet thinclads returned to Schenectady to splish and sp.lash through the mud .to a one\point squea;ker, defeating Rochester 73- 72. Sophomore muscleman Bill Mowery remained undefeated in the shot put and the discus, and high scorer for the team with '\\ double wins in both contests. Defying the bad weather on Saturday, Mowery bettered his competitors with distances of 48' · 1;2\' and 136' 6\ in the respective events. Mowery's fellow weightma·il, AI Gilewicz, battled the pouring rains to capture a victory in the javelin with a throw of 138'. Gilewicz later heaved the shot 42' 2%\ for a second there. A muddy handoff Saturday at the Meet J{.ochester built up points with sweeps in the mile, three mile, 120-yard high hurdles, and the quar:ter-mile Felay. The biggest * * * * The Ad Hoc !enure Cominittee for Professor Stephen Berk invites written student comments. A \teachiug evaluation form\ is available in the Political Science Department Office (SS 216) for this purpo~e. The Committee will also be inviting, on a random basis, .a certain number of Professor Berk's students for a formal interview. The latter randomly se!f!~ted students will be contacted . -.:!ctly by the Committee at .. later date. .... -·· ... \ - - ~ ...... . ·- . • -. . ·=· !.\--........;\ Levfs Dave's' Mens Shop 453 State St. I (d~wntown Sch~nectady) There are old people who need someone to talk to. Boys who need fathers. Guys in veterans' hospitals who need someone to visit them. Kids who need tutors. We know lots of people and groups who need your help. Write \Volunteer l'....A Washington, D.C. 20013 .. ~ We need you. The National Center for Voluntary Action. photo by Kobel Haver lead held by the Y ellowjackets Lacrosse 1-Up, 1-Down by FRANCESCO ISGRO When they're hot they're hot, and when they're not... well they're not. Fresh with a victory over powerful Syracuse University, the Garnet Laxmen buried Colgate 14-5 on Wednesday, in the latter's fiela. Then due partly to an increment in the weather over the weekend. which must have cooled down most of the players. tlte Garnets dropped a ll-5 loss as hosts to Middlebury. Dennis Walker was the highest scorer for both games, tallying 6 times on Wednesday and three times on Saturday. The Garnets completely dominated the game agamst Colgate. Robert Grossman put our stickmen on the scoring board with 20 seconds gone on the clock, and one minute later he added another. Grossman also tallied early in the second period, and was credited with 5 assists. Stan White threw in 3 good ones, and Mark Walsh and Mike Fine added a goal each. No. IS Don Kline had a cou[>le of assists and Don Ward was credited with one. The contest agains1 Mi~dlebliry was not a contest at all. One team was missing and it was Union. The Garnets weren't able to pull themselves to'get:her ihd play . Team Captain Stan White had the first tally for Union, and Don Ward added a second point. Leading scorer Dennis Walker added three more tallies for the Garnets to bring their score to 5, and that's how far they went. This Wednesday the Garnets host Trinity on Daley Field at 3:30 P.M .. and Saturday they travel to Troy to meet Capital District rival R.P.I. Coach Alisson's team should secure both contests to get a winning season. teVI\S • Dave's' Mens Shop 453 State St. (downtown Schenectady) I, was IS points, early in the meet. The Dutchmen met the ·cnaHenge, taking firsts and seconds in the 220, 880 and long jump. Soph Chris Doulides sped to a 23.9 win in the 220 after having picked up a third in the hundred. repeatin.g his Wednesday performance at Clinton. Jerry Cuffey grabbed second place in bot'h sprints at home on Saturday. Middledistance man Vito Stellato of Hamilton gave an outstanding show as he easi:ly sprinted the last lap of the mile to finish in 4.24.1, bettering Steve Jones' 4:25.0. Stellato returned to battle Tim McCabe all the way to the tape in the 880, only to see McCabe cross for the win in I:S9.3. Versus U of R, Mark Mindel, who had been only .03 seconds behind McCabe at Hamilton, answered the starter's gun with an early established lead which he held onto until the finish, defeating McCabe by .03 seconds with a time of 2:0 1.4. Landing in a pit of mud rather than one of sand, John De Stefano leaped 20' 6W' to outdistance fellow Dutchman Pete Walrath by 2%\. Walrath was a doublewinner at Hamilton in both the long and triple jumps as John De and Brad Patterson were second place men in the respective events. Palumbo, of Rochester, who took third in the long jump, returned to win the triple jump at 43' 3W' and see Brlld Patterson and Pete Citarella p'ick up a Garnet second and third. Pave Ric~s, winper in t)le pole yauit 0fl both occasions at 13'and 12' 6\ battled Kessler of Rochester an!J Greg Hamlin to win the 440 yd. dash in 54.2. Frosh Bob Baribeau took a second and a third in respective pole vault contests, each at 12' The Garnet mile relay team remained undefeated with a 3:26.7 win at Hamilton and a suspenseful 3:3S.2 victory over Rochester. When anchorman Tim :~cCabe received the baton the three previous legs had been run dead even. McCabe opened up and passed Miller of Rochester to beat the U of R team by 1.3 seconds. · McCabe was' teamed with Dave Ricks, Jerry Cuffey and Greg Hamlin. Winning or losing depended on the ·high jump, the final event. With only one U of R jumper left in the competition after the initial height the Dutchmen were assured a total victory when second and third places were grabbed by Stan Jackson and John De Stefano, at .6' and 5' 8\ Next Saturday Union will challenge Trinity College at Alexander Field, at 2:00 P.M. On Wednesday, May 9, the thinclads travel to Troy to take part in a turkey trot sponsored by the Engineers of RPL BLITHER· .:. . . . . . - - , Hillel Meeting Wednesday night at 7:00 p.m. in S.S. 112. Plans for ls~aeli Independence Day,·· Holocatist Memorial, and Russian Circus will be discussed. * * * * Hillel Friday night Shabbat Services .every week at 7:00 in Arts 202. All are welcome. * * * * The following announcement is of major' importance to all campus photographers plagued with an o:verriding need to satisfy an obsessive' 'ego-ma·nia. Concordy is preparing for its first big Spring Term photo contest. Here is an ideal opportunity to have your own personal work published in glorious magnificence. So start collecting your best shots and check for details in the next issue. LUIGI'S RESTAURANT SPECIALIZING IN Italian -American Food 1125 BARREtT ST. SCHENECTADY 01'6-9744 Enjoy Sizzling Steaks and Chops Visit Our Cocktail Bar ONCE A GAZETH LO~GINGLY AT THE CASTLE OF TlfE WORLD'S MOST BEAUTIFUL MAIDEN .•• WHEN A DRAGON OFFER!:D TO GAIN HIM ENTRANCE FOR THE. FEE OF 2. 6-PACKS OF \'WAIT HERE, THE ORAGON SAYETH, DISAPPEARING WITH THE BEERE ... W Cl 4 PM A N SCHAEFER BEERE. ' t j. ) ~~ \\. I r ( I a I~ I l1 t .e a c r< h a tl ~~ C' I~ ci \\ lt E Cl t I ( l al rl c IH t.r Cl' 0 Ol ()\ A w (I th th ar hi :1'1 f. (;._ 1'1': Schatltr Breweries. New York and Albany, N.Y .. llalt!lnore, Md., Lehi!lh Valley. Pa. .Sil n:

3:26.7 a over n the run up ter to 1.3 vent. left were hen and 8\ will at lads a the 112. and t is all sfy rst to .. jQundedat .Union Coll~ge in 1877 · · . ' . - . ' ' . - ; - ' \ I . · ~ Ref!ycle ~his Paper l VoL 10Z, No. 45 Friday, May 4, 19V3 ~0 cents doctor twice a week for one hour a day.\ Mayor Duci ~iscusses Schenectady Problems ·rne l·roquois Confederacy indudes the' Indian nations of Mo:hawk. Se·neca. Oneida. Onttnd~tga and . Cayllg;:l. Chief I.azore insists that,. \We are a :-;overeign people. r think the l·ndi<.tn movement is somewhat d·ifferent from othe~ - ethnic riHJvements. We're looking for 'something .different. We .don't want to join the mainstream .o:f America and den''t want 1'0 Chi;f Larrv . lAzare .. · pbot0 ~y Les Kernan ~ assim.ilate into the American culture.\ In 1969, President ~ixon. in a policy statement, u.rgcd increased efforts _ to integrate lndiuns into the Ameri.can ctd.tu:r.e without Mohawk Chief Speaks by BJLL TALIS On Wednesday night. May 2nd. Chief Larrv Lazor.e of the Moh<twk-St. · Regis Reservation spoke on Indian· .affairs in New York St<lte. The chief has had much exposure t:o .the ways of life of both Indians a.nd the white man. having served in the Navy foF 22 ye;its and working for four yqrs designing nuclear power plnnts.,__Chief Lazore emphasized '' th~tt aH Indians do not think alike. ··some want nothing to d0 with the white m-an's wotlcl, and some want nothing to do with the lnd ian's world.\' _ threatc,nil1g \termination.\ The Indians fear Joining . the maimtream of America. the Chief Bllt~d. since \the Blacks tried to join. hut fcHmd the .door slammed ~~hut -on their face by WASP J\meriqt.\ l.;uote had lived ~Ccording to middle-dass standards and he ·Continued on page 5 Pre-registration materials · for fall term 1973•74 will be· a~ailable. at the. Office of the Registra·r, Room 2, Administration Buildlng, beginning Monday, May 21st. Students are urged :to • promptly secure their copy of • these matefiills. Students who do not plan to retum to Union \for the fall term, except for graduating seniors, should. · l'!iso report and give notice of their _pi~tns. The Mayor of Schenectady is named Frank DueL The office of Mayor in this city is not a powe.rful one: the Mayor is not the ptima:ry decision-maker. He has one Vote on the ('ity Council. along with the six other. councilrt1ei1. Although the Mayor does appoint the committees and has power of subpoenae. he can make no decisions indepeAdent .~)f the City Council, His functions are largely symbolic. He greets visiting officials. listens to cit ilens's complaints, discusses urhan p.ro'ble.ms with municipal (.)fficia:Is in otl:fer cities and so on. 'fhe Mayot is not satisfied with t'his form of munic.ipal govetf.irtrent.. He believes that a n;c<tldtrant City Council can dictate policy contrary to the advice of the prufessional City Manager, upon whose knpwledge atid expertbe the Council should he basing their decisions. In Schenectady, Duci complains, \'The Manager cannot exercise his proCessional capabilities, Legislators control the government. You might just as well elect a strong mayor because he has to perform in order to get re-elected.\ Mayor Duci voiced these criticisms before a do;en people in a hitsemen,t classroom in the! Socral Sciences Building on Tuesday night. In Duci's eyes, the primary pwblems facing the city· of Schenectady are in the areas of intergc.wernmental cooperation. housing. !>olid waste disposal. and the revitalization of the downtown area. Mawr Duci was highly critical .of the lack of coopera.tiOJ;J between towns surrounding Schenech\dY and the -city itself. Duci expressed_ the hope that some form of governmental consolidation would come about in the areas of health, recreation and ,pun;hasing. He is not in favor of complete consolidation. but he feel}; that it is .in the-interes-t ·o-fall the town gove.rnmerit~ iQvolvcd: hl cooperate in the a;-eas jusr .. men-t!ofled. Schenectady must also find a wav to dispose of the city's ga~hage. The city must find new Iandriil sites soon. The mayor said that the city cou:Jd save $350,000 immediately. if there was some degree of governmental Housing. or t:he lack thereof, is also a problem in Schenectady.\ Federal funds for certain types ol housing have been fr01en. In order to meet H U D's l'ClJUirements for urban renewal funding for low income housing. the citv needs 120 low income housing units Schenectady is con.struc.ting 54. Prank Du·'ci Mayor of Schenectady · ' photo by Bill Erichson consolidation in the area of solid waste disposal. •• 1\ · lot of people ar~ qu.ite unaware of the roll;! Indians pla~·cd in New York State.''S:aid Chief Lazore. The IFoquois Indian Confederacy. whieh was a democratic system among Indian nati<m.s. was established before the ancient Greeks even conceived of _democracy. \Wornen had suffrage be(ore . white man thought of it:\ said the cliief. \'and chiefs were <1nd <l•re selected by ahilitv and leadership as a criter]a.'' The l·roquois nation Was recngni;ed as a sovereign state before the American Revolution, and served as a buffer between the English colonies on the Eastern Seaboard. and the French colonies in Canada, \Durirtg the Re\'olt1tionarv War,\ said the chief. \.cont~ol of the lrol)uois wnuld ~e a key factor. The Indians had str()ng tics with England. !lut others had ties to colcmists for missionaries, such as the Kirkland Mi 1 ssionary New Steering Committee· Meets lhe driVe to improve the downtown area in order to ult.imately provide a better tax base.· is also flouridering on the ~cas oi tigh.t fede\al funds and lack of lfn::n+consensus about the nature of the projecJ. The \Superblock\ proposal has been 'oted dov. n. and the \Town-in- town\ project will f!Ot ' he operative UJitil mid-1974. l'he Mavor is not In favor of the City Manager-City Council form of government. Right now he is working on a proposal to change the form of municipal go.,·eJ;nment in S~!henectady -to the \strong Mayor\ type of gmernment. The proposal should he submitted to the voters in the form of a referendum on the ballot this fall. Huci hys a strong sense of political efficacy. which is not an unusual quality in public of'ficcholders. He Ctlncluded: \If vou work hard enough. something can be done.\ Selections to Phi Beta Kappa Tbe first meeting ot the newly- elected Steering Committee opened in the Strauss Lounge of the Student.Center Tuesday nigh.t. Some twenty people (including P·rovost Enteman and --Dr. Smith. soori-to be Dean or Students) attended. Changes ih the College Constitution· was the first item u:nder discussi<'m. H was sugge~ted that copies. of the Constitution be .. rinted· and made available to the (Kirkland Coll~ge was Mmed CONCORDiENSIS after this missi£1narv).'' Because of PHOTO CONTEST the laws. of the Iroquois Yes, it'S true. Conscious of the .Confederation were such that a abundant photographic taient on UI1animous decision wouM bt: campus,- and always ready to ncc~,;ssary to take action, the accomodate its readers' needs, Iroquois could not agree on Concordiensis is sponsoring , its action, a1id 1·emained neutl'al very own photo contest. Rules are through the war. b.u:t gave each simple: nat:ion the rlght to choose their 1. Any Union student is ow11 actie:m. eligible. Among the lt1dia ns: th c - 2. Pictures must pertain either American Revoltttion is called the directly or indirectly 1o Union. Brother Against Brother War. _ Otherwise, subject choice is hecausc some natloils were at war unrestricted. with each other. The Oneida 3. Only black and white prints. nation. a mcmbe1· of the ~roquois will be accepted, any size up to 8 Cnilfederucy fo.ught with the x tO. cnloifists for their freedom. '~The 4, Pictures will be judged •()n Oneidas,\ Chief Larore pointed content, compos1tion, originality, nut. \have no t:eservation of: their technical quality, and whatever own today.'' Because of the else is relevant. Judging will be Amct·ican Revolution and the handled by Concord_y's three War of' · I g I 2, the Irnq uois incredibly competent photo Confederacy was \Ncakencd. and editors. ·(<:onseqliently, they are t:he white ma·n spread out across ob\~iously Ineligible.) thl' C(Rlllti'y trtak tng illegal treaties $. Entries may be left £n and sciting land. . Concordy\s box in dte Student \The l11dian movetnent today tS Activities Building, or with Bill hringing this out into thc·,(>pen l;:-richsoli·· iii- Rm. 263 Kappa a~ild trying to have . these Alpha {Davidson)• Prints should t'niudulcl'l1 actk,ns cleared up,\ be htbeh~d with name of _s<tys Chief I.atore. The lrtdian photographer. addres.-.. phone., l'ttlH! J'VHt'i:ons re<:e i ve to k c n and any pertinent ill formation assis•anec f'nHn the gtncrnmenf. it abou.t the .print. w:ts tlt-lte.d. ' 1 'l'hl!'--'!ltate su-n1h ~~ C0nfin, student body: President Larry Brown proposed that a referendum be taken next f11.II. to he preceded by sev\eral open Steering Committee meetings ifl which amendments would be discussed. The issue of amending the Constitution was dropped, to be resumed at the next Steering ( 'ommittee meeting .. when copies of the Constitution should he at hand. The second consideration was that of the school calendar. A referendum taken last year indicated that stucfe'1ns p1·efer the pn;sent 3•3·3 system: that refen;ndum.' however;\ was not considcreo to have been reliable . The discussion on changing the c<rlcndar hrought forth several proposed new systems. ind).lqing \sptit-3\ ( Christmfls vacation; in the middle of the second term)., 4- 1-4. 4-4. and,4-3-2: the last would giYe ·•Union start:ing and cl()sing dates similar to other schools and \\'ould require only two courses spring term. Provost Enteman tHol a role in this discussion, presenting his own and tile faculty's p<,Jints of vie'w. He said ·that no change in the calendar ca.n he n1tcd this. year. Larry Brown appointed three students to meet with linteman and study t·he various p<)ssihle calendars m e.r the next few months. with a \full student committee\ on calendar chungc to he set up next fall. Thetc was a proposal to establish an .tJd hoc committee, by soliciting applications through ('oncordy, which would study cllh:ildar changes. This. idea, to J'li'O\'idc for .a formnlly~organizcd gt'(Hlp. was V<Hed down in favor of the infoPhllll study group. Continull!d on page 5 At its annual Election Meeting on Tuesdav. Mav 1. the· Union College C·hapter- of Phi Beta Kappa elected 43 Seniors and 7 Juniors to membership in this national honorary society. for scholarlv excellence. The 43 mem he1:s of the C'IHss of 1973 join se\en of their classmates elected last vcar. while the seven memhers of the Class of 1974 represent the few most outstai1ding students in their class. The Chapter based its selection of these individuals both upon a student's formal academic record and upon written c\ aluations from faculty members with tvhom th.e student had \\'Orked dose!\'. \ationa llv, ·dcctinn to Phi Beta Kappa ·trad irionaUy represents the hi ghcst honor bestowed upon u.r;dcrgraduate students for their acadc~1ic achievement. The Phi Beta Kappa Chapter at Union \\'as founded in 1 i\ 17 and W(ts the first chapter to he created in tt1e State of \Jew York. and the fifth oldest chapter in the United States. Current President of the Chapter is Prof. Joseph Finkelstein of the Department ~of History. \e\\;k elected members arc: f)ennis · Alsofrom M itchcll Benson Robert Hernlmtdt Pl.1'ter Bickermun .Iellrev Bh)nstcin Sa II\' · lknn: i· Wiliiam Hrendcr Sam Brody Jounn Carr William Cliwwn HI I homas Conley I khorah Dtl\ is Paul Delfin William Do()ishinski l.a\\'rence Eisner Sharon Fiscus Robert Glicksman Philip Gruppuso Robert Hahn Roi1ald Ho!Ttnan Stephen Karotk in H<l\\'ard Kril/er M ichad l.auccllo Margaret Manctb(l Frank Mcs~a lhomas Morante l>aul Parker Chris Pearson Alan Pieuykowski Dan Rahimi Peter Reiss Thomas Pcmbctski I homas Rohback Charles Sahau R obcrt Scutt Da\ id Silherm:m I )ale Simpson Louis Snitkoll W i 11iam Sussman t\rthm I urock Michael VanHntten t\ltan Windt Russell Winer. Prc\.inllslv elected from the class of I97J as juninl's were: Davjd Boggs Craig Coonlcy Barrv Goldstein Ernest Guillet Hn,,:m:d .lacon~ Cynthiu Seacord and Richard Wimlow. 'ie\\ I\' elected memhers of the class o{ 1974 are~ t\rchie Budnikas Rohert Gnt\'es Ch~~rlcs Luxenberg Patty Sipe Peggy Miller Laurel Mcl~onald und D:mid Stdcl--. \ I

a over Tim the run up to 1.3 med on itial hen at On a jay 12. 10 IS fy s ;l.J \\. ' ft>unded at Union c_ol/ege ~,; 1817 · · ~ Recycle ~his Paper l Vnl. 102, No. 45 . Friday, May 4, 19\/3 20 cents doctor twice .a week for one hour n day.\ The lroquois Confederacy includes the' Indian nations of Mohawk, Seneca, Oneida, Onandag~l a11d Cayuga. Chief La1ore insists that, \We are a sovereign people. I think the Indian movement is somewhat d.ifferent fvon1 other- ethnic movements. We're looking for ·something different. We don't wa'llt to join the mainl;t•re<un of America · and cjon 't want to assimilate into the American culture.\ In 1969, President ~ixon. in a po'licy statement. t!rgcd incre<:l.sed efforts to integrate Indians into the AmcTica n cuHI!!Te without threatening \termination.'' The Indians fear 'JOining the mainstream of Am~rica. the Chief noted, since \the Blacks tried t(J join, hut found the door slammed ·shut on their face by WASP America.·· Mayor Duci ~iscusses Schenectady Problems Ch ie[ Larr}' . Lazare photo by Les Kernan Mohawk Chi1ef Speaks by BlLL TAUS ()nWednesday night. May 2nd, Chid Larry Lazore of the Mohawk-St. Regis Reservation spoke on Indian affairs in New Yo.dk :State. ·rhe chief bas had muc-hex;jwsure to the ways of life of lJoth l,ndians amd the white mart, havrng served in the Navy !'or 22 :yea:rs and working for four \'C<Ws designing nuclear power rl:t.n ts,_Chief Lmore emphasized that :t II Indians do, not think alike. ·\'Some want nothing to do witll the white man's world. and some want nothing to do with the I ndi,m' s world.\ L:vore had. lived according to middle-dass standards and he ' Continued <m page 5 Pre-registration materials for fall term 1973-74 will be available at the Office of the Registrar, Room 2, Administration Building., beginning Monday, May 21st. Students are urged to promptly sectue their copy of these materials. Students who . do not plan 11> return to Union 'for the fall term, except for graduating seniors, should also report and give notice of their _plans. The Mayor of Schenectady is named <Frank Duci. The office of Mayor in this city is not a powerful one: the Mayor is not the p.rimary decision-maker. He has one vote on the City Council. a:long with the six other councilmen. Although the Mayor dl•Jes appoint the committees and has power of subp.oenae, he can make no decis.ions independent of the City Council His functions aFc largely symbolic. He greets \'isit.ing officials. I is tens to citil'ens\ complaints. discusses urhHn pro-blems with municipal officials in otller cities and so on. 'i\he Mavor is not satisfied with t h is f o r~m of m u 11 i c i p a I government. He believes that a ;ccalcht:ant Citv Council can dictate policy ~ontrary to the advice of the professional City Manager. upon whme knowledge and expertise the Council should he basinu their decisions. In Schenectady. Duci complains. \The Manager cannot exercise his pro fe s s ion a I cap a b iIi tics. Legislators control the government. You might just as well clecl a strong mayor because he has to perform in order to get re-el cct cd . \ Mayor Duci voiced these criticisms before a dotcn people in a basement classroom in the Social Sciences Building on \!\ lot of people are quite unaware of the role Indians played· in :--Jew York State.\ ·said ('hid bt7orc. The lmquois Indian Cnnfedentcy. w'hich was a dern<JCratic system among Indian n~Hinns. was established before the atll; icnt Greeks even conceived nf, dcrnocracv. \Women had suflbtge be{ore white man thou uht of it.\ said the cnief. \and .chief.:;; were and are selected by a hilit\' and leadership as a cl·itcr.ia_\ ·the Iroquois nati{)n was rccogni.;~ed as a sovereign state ncfore the Aml!rican Revolution, and scncd as a buffer between the En!Jiish colonies on the Emtct:n Seanoard. and the French colonies in Canada~ \During the Re1oc.lutionmv War.\ said the chicL -mntt:ol of the Iroquois 1\'ottl>d l)c a key factor. The lndia:ns h::1d strong ties with England. hut others had ties to colonists for missionaries. such as the K id< I and M i's s i o n a ry New Steering Committee·. Meets The first meeting ol the newly- elected Steering Committee opened in the Strauss Lounge of the Student Center Tuesday night. Some twenty people (it~cluding Provost Enteman and I )r. Smith. sm)n to he Dean of Students) attended. Changes in the Col'lege Constitution was the first item under discussion. It was suggested that copies. of the Constitution be rinted and made available to the (kirkland College was named CONCORDIENSIS after thismissionarv).'' Because of PHOTO CONTEST the 'hows of the Iroquois Yes. it's tme. Conscious of the Conl'eilcration were such that a abundant photographic talent on unanimous decision wotl'fd be campus,- and always ready to ncc~s~ary to take action. the accomodate its readers· needs, !.roqllois cnu ld not agree on ('oncordiensis is sponsoring -its actinn and remained neutral ,·ery own photo contest. Rules are tluou,gh the war. b.ut gave each simple: naliOll til~ right to choose their 1. Any Union student is nwn .:.tct ion- eligible. Arno ng the Indians: the-- 2. Pictures must pertain either i\.!11criu:tn Revolution is called the directly or indirectly to Union. Brotl'lcl: 1\gainst Hrother War. Otherwise. su!).ject choice is bl:caLtsc some nations were itt war unrestricted. \\·ith LHcil other. The Oneida 3. Only black and white prints natio11. oo:t mcmhcr of the Iroquois will be accepte~', any size up to 8 Confcdc-ntcy fought with the x 10. . Cl)hl!i isis for their freedom. \The 4. Pictures will be judged on Oncidus_\ Chief l.a7<ne pt)inted content, composition, originality. out. ·~ha Yc 110 reservation of their technical quality, and whatever own todav.\ Hecause of the else is relevant, Judging win be '\ mei-ic:l n Rc\lolution and the handled by C oncordy's three War t»l. I H 12. the lroqltois incredibly competent photo ('onfcde ntcy wHs weakened. and editors. (Consequently, they are tile \Vhite man spread out across obYiOusly ineligible.) tl'lc eour1Uy tnaking iHegal treaties s;. Entries may be left in and sod/ i11g land. . ('oncordy's 15o.x in the Student \'The J ndian movement today 1s Aclhities Building, or with Bill bringing; this out int() the open f:richson in':'- Rm. 263 Kappa ahd try.ing to have these Alpha (lla'Vidson). Prints should lh.tllditilrnt: actions cleared up.\ be labeled with name of _sttys Oticf !.more. The Indian photographer, address, phone, 1'\l'SCI\\':ttions receive t<rken and an)' perti11ent information W>sis~::tnce-fJ~<llll the go\'Crhment. it about the print. was rt10tcd. \The- slutt;o sc11~ls :t Conlin student bodv: President Larry Brown pr-oposed that a referendum he taken next fall, to he preceded by SC\~ral open Steering Committee meetings in which amendments would he d iscttssed. The issue of amending the Constitution was dropped. to he resumed at the next Steering Committee meeting. when copies of the Constitution should he at hand. ·rhe second consideration was that of the school calendar. A referendum taken last year indicated that studelits pi·efer the present 3-3-3 system: that referendum. however: was not considered to have been reliable. The discussion on changing the calendar brought forth several prnpmed new systems. including \split-.r (Christmas vacation_ in the middle of the second term). 4- 1-4. 4-4. and.4-J-2: the last would giw .otlnion starting and cltlsin!! dates similar to other schooJs and would rcquii·e only two courses srring term. Provost Entcman took a role in this discussion, presenting his own and the lactih:y's points of vie·w. He said ·that no change in the calendar can he \otcd this year. Larry Hrown appointed three students tl\ meet with Enteman and study the vaJ·ious p(lssible calendars 0\ er the next few months, with a \full student committee\ on calendar change to be set up next t:t!I. There was a proposal to establish an ad hoc committee. by soliciting applications through ('oncorlly, which would study calendar changes. lhis idea. to pwvide for a formally-organized group. was voted down in favor of the informal study group. Continu~d on page 5 T\' Tuesday night. In Duci's eyes, the primary problems facing the city· of Schenectady are in the areas of intcrgowmmental cooperation. housing. sulid waste disposal. and the revitalization of the downtown area. Schenectady must also find a wav to dispose of the city's ga~hage. The city must find new landfiH 'ites ~t)On. The mayor said that the city could sme $350.000 immediately, if there was some degree -of governmental Mayor Duci was highly critical of the lack of cooperation between towns surrounding Schenectady and the ,city itself. Duci expressed_ the hope that some form of governmental consolidation would come about in the areas of health. recreation and purchasing. He is not in favor of complete consolidation. but be feels that it is in the,i.nterest of all the town governmen:ts iQ.volvcd: t·o cooperate !ll the areas jusr . mc1Hioned. Housing. or the lack thereof. is also a problem in Schenectady: Federal funds for certain types oi· housing have been fnllen. In order to meet H lJ D's requirements for urban renewal funding for low income housing. the citv needs 120 low income housing units Schenectady is constructing 54. lhe dri\c to improve the downtown area in order to ultimately provide a better tax hasc is also floundering on the ~cas o.l tight federal funds and lack of ln~::d consensus a bout the natllrc ol the project. The \Supcrhlock\ proposal has been \ oted do\\ n. and the \Town-in- town project will not ' be operative until mid-1974. ·Frank Duci, Scl1enectady · Mayor of photo by BW Erichson consolidation in the area of so.lid waste disposal. rhe Mavor is not in favor of the City Manager-City Council form of gmcrnment. Right now he is working on a proposal to change the form t~f municipal gowrnment in Schenectady to the \strong Mayor\ t~·pc of gowrnment. The proposal should he submitted to the voters in the form of a referendum on the ballot this fall. Duci hus a strong sense of political efficacy. which is not an unusual quality in puhlic olficcholdcrs. He concluded: \If you work hard enough. something can be done.\ Selections to Phi BetaKappa At its annual Election Meeting on I uesdav. Mav I. the· Union College C-hapter- of Phi Beta Kappa elected 43 Senior~ and 7 .Juniors to membership in this national honorary society for scbnlarlv excellence. The 43 mcmhe1:s of the Class of 1973join se\ en of their classmates elected last \'Car, while the seven mcmh~rs of the Class of 1974 represent the few most outstanding students in their class. lhc Chapter based its selection of these individuals both upon a student's formal academic record and upon written c\ aluations from faculty members with whom the student had worked closclv. '\ational!v. -election to Phi Beta Kappa traditionally represents the hi l!hest honor hest owed upon ut;derl!raduatc students for their acade~1ic achievement. The Phi lkta Kappa Chapter at Union \as founded in IH17 and was the first chapter to he created in the State of ~e\\ York. and the fifth oldest chapter in the United States. Current President of the Chapter is Prof. Joseph Fit1kclstein of the Department 'of History. '\ewly clec.tcd members are: Dennis Alsofrom \1 itchc II Benson Rohcrt Bernhardt Pctc.r ~ickc rt11a n Jl'ITrcy Hlonstcin Sail\' !{ower Wiliiam Brender Sat11 Hrody .Joann Carr William ('la~·ton III I hnmas Conley I >ehorah Da\ is Paul Delfin William I>obishin~ki I .a wrence E is Tier Sharon Fiscus Robert Glicksman Philip Gruppuso Robert Hahn Ronald Hoffman Stephen Karotkin Hnward Kri!ler Michael l.aucello Margaret Mancu:;o I-ran k Messa I homa~ Morante Paul Parker Chris Pearson Alan Pietlykowski Dan Rahimi Peter Reiss I homa~ Pcmbctski I homas Rohhack Charles Saba tt Robert Scutt D;n id S ilbcrman I >ale Simpson J.ouis SnitkofT \Villiam Sussman -\rthur I urock ~1ichad VanHatten J\ll.an Windt R usscll Winer. Pre\ iously elected from the class of Jc,17J as juniors were: Davjd Boggs Craig Coonlcy Harrv Goldstein Ernest Guillet II O\\:ard Jacohs Cvnthia Seacord and l{ ichard Wins-low. '\c\\ h· dcctcd memhcrs of the clnss of: 1974 arc: :\rchic Hudnikas Robert Gmvcs Charles Luxenberg Patty Sipe Peggy Miller Laurel Mcl~onald and Daniel Stcfck.

.. ' Page2 CONCORD/EN SIS, Friday, May 4, 1973 · Opinion: Where. We Stand Peace· World Order Major by AL REISCH The following letter and reply appeared in The Amherst Student (the student paper of Amherst College) on April30, 1973: \To the Chairman: Who the hell do you editors think you are? What the hell do you think The Student is, a vehicle for cynics and satyrists? When are you going to stop wasting the students' money by putting in stupid \bits\ like that asinine admissions letter? When are you going to do some honest and decent reporting? 1 don't pay lJlY money to the Student Allocations Committee so that they can give you money to spend on pizzas at twelve in the morning while you wheel out space fillers like that, and you can ·bet that I won't in the futur.e. If there is no news to print, give us less pages, but don't make up news. Make The Student a decent and informative paper instead of a .pile of junk. Kenneth L. Washington, '74 (Bob Stein brook, Chairman of The Student, replied as follows:) The last time The Student spent Student Activities money on pizza was in 1971 for which the present editors bear no res-ponsibility. The letter in question was forwarded to The Student by Admissions Dean Ed WaH. We mge all who are interested in writing for the ne\vspaper to attend a staff meeting tonight at 7:00 P.M. in our Pratt Basement offices. ~ed.\ In a way I'd ahnost like to congratulate Bob; obviously someone cares. It takes time to bitch and Kenneth L. Washington certainly took that time and bitched up a storm. Yet there is a more important point here, I think. Pizza, after a while, is unimportant; &nd calling staff meetings is useless. I feel compelled to come to Bob's defense on a different leveL Lt is a plain and simple fact that college journalism,even of the highest calibr.e (and Amherst's is first rate), is not professional in any sense of the term. We do not have staffs that can spend any reasonable amount of their time searching out stories. We must, her,e at Union, at Amherst, and at most other ''small, liberal arts colleges\ depend on our respective college communities to_ let us know what's going on. Even then, chances are that coverage will be either minimal or non-existent. I'm not complaining, believe me. We've been really lucky this spring in that we've had a constant surplus of copy sitting around the office and we have yet to resort to printing admissions letters. It is true, though, that there are events that we have not been able to cover and leads that remain to be followed up. This is a reality of college journalism and is neither good nor bad but inevitable. Bob must have had a good laugh while reading Ken'.s letter. Editors an~ stfallge that way ... we enjoy what we do. It would be nice, though, if people were to read the Student and Concordy as we do. Don't expect professionalism, you won't p;et it. Read our papers with a sense of humor. When we blow ah issue or part of one remember that we didn't do it intentionally. We set our sights higher than the expectations that most of you probably hold for our papers and we work our asses off trying to realize these goals. When we don't we know that it's not because we didn't try and we sit back and laugh a little. All we ask is that you help us in any way you can and, when we blow it, laugh along with us. PEACE AND WORLD ORDER MAJOR (beginning 1973-74) A. Goal of the Major The primary goal of the Peace Studies Major is to provide an academic focus on two inter- related problem areas: (a) the problems of world order, and (b) the_ problems of social conflict, violence. and conflict resolution. World order problems refer t·o those human problems that tend to have serious consequences for physical survival and the quality of life (e.g. economic development and distribution, war. ecological problems and resource depletion, human rights);. the emphasis in the major would be that once a basic descriptive knowledge of these problems is obtained, how are these problems bei·ng managed or solved by human sodety'! Social conflict, violence, and conflict resolution are core foci in peace studies primarily because there IS substantial knowledge in this area and because it is a part (as a problem. a ca11se, and a consequence) of global human problems. Theories about conflict and conflict -resolution are crucial elements in understanding human problem- solving. not only at inter-personal levels of interaction, but at international. inter-regional, and even global levels of interaction. 8. Specific purposes of the Major Given the focus on world order and conflict resolution, the following are specific purposes of the major at Union College. I. To teach the elements of systematic inquiry, emphasizing methods of description, data collection and analysis, prediction and future forecasting. The emphasis of this major requires at least the same degree of rigor with respect to method and analytic skills that characterize other social sciences. 2. To promote a linkage between the description of CONCORDIENSIS founded at Union College in 1877 Editor-in-Chief.. .............................................. Al Reisch · international problems with an emphasis on the techniques and styles of social and political action (including political design of alternative global futures). Mallaging Editors ..................................... Rita Morandi Dave Strom News Editors ........................................ Phyllis Edelman Marty Sherman Features Editor ........................................ John Perlstein Investigations and Analysis .......................... Don Krone Associate Editor ....................................... Chuck Sa batt National Advertising .................................... Steve Kelly Sports Editor· ....................... · · Bart Mercer Subscriptions ...... , .. ~ ............................... Mike Bernstein Business Manager .................................. Chris O'Connor Photo Editors .......................... Les Kernan Off\ace Staff Phil Alcabes Doug Carpenter Gary Lovett lllyria Puharich Dan Rothblum Jeff W eilburg Bill Erichson Robin Waring Bill West Concordiensis is published every Tuesday and Friday during the school year except during examination and vacation periods by the student body of Union College, Schenectady, N.Y. National Advertisin,g Representative: National Educational Advertising Service, Inc., NYC. Editorial office, Old Gym Hall, Union College. Publication office, The Jewish World Publications, 771 State Street, Schenectady, New York, 12307 (346-2356). Entered in the Schenectady post office as Second Class Mail Matter. Subscription rate: 20 cents a copy, 8 dollars a year delivered anywhere in the United States. Deadline for all copy, which must be TYPED AND DOUBLE SPACED, is 7 p.m. on Monday and Thursday at the Concordiensis office, located in Stoller Hall above Old Chapel. The office phone number is 370-6155, but the office is in use only on Monc!ay and Thursday nights. FOR ALL EDITORIAL MATTERS CALL THE EDiTOR-IN-CHIEF AT 346-9396; FOR INFORMATION CALL MRS. MARRA IN THE' STUDENT ACTIVlTIES OFFICE AT 370-6118. Photo Contest Continued from page 1 3. To combine an understanding of broad human problems with an emphasis on practical steps to deal with them {including discussions of occupations and life-styles appropriate for such involvement). 4. To teach an understanding of group methods of cooperation with increased sensitivity towards personal skills and habits in dealing with other people; to develop the organizational skills inherent_ in social and political action. 5. To promote a solid knowledge of global human prohlems combined with a knowledge of social conflict and conflict management techniques. and to provide areas of specialization within the major that allow students to develop particular interests in ngorous ways. C. Illustrative Areas of Specialhation (\Tracks\) Each major should develop an overview of the field of peace studies and have a basic knowledge of world order problems and of social conflict. violence. and .conflict resolution. Heyond this. it is possible for the undergraduate major to develop particular areas of speciali1ation and interest within the field, and the following \tracks\ are presented to illustrate some of these possibilities: Levrs 6. Deadline for entries will be sometime in the last week of May. 7. Prize: best entries will be published in our big end-of-year photo issue. Any picture is a potential winner. Here is a chance to challenge your own' abilities, sharpen your competitive edge, and show up the Concordy photo <;faff. With the springtime proliferation of coeds, frisbees and humping dogs, the campus is I blessed with a wealth of subject Dave's\ Mens Shop material. Any questions, call Bill Erichson at 346-9147. Happy f 453 State St. shooting. _a......;(~d;;:;o..;.;wn.;;;.;;.;to;..;w.-n,;..S.;;..c;.;.h;;.;e...;;n.;;.;ec;.;;ta;;;d;;:;Y.:.)__. TRACKl: Normative elements of peace studies normative + + ethics political theory theories of just wat non-violence ... .design of social utopias TRACK2: International political conflict international descriptive politics ++-theories of .. international oFganizations ~ roots of violence (int. problems) war alliances, security systems TRACK 3: Theories of humaiJ-social conflict psy. basis of social competi- aggression ++- t\on and conflict t, + theories of .. game theory_ non-violence econotnic:.social causes of.conflict approaches t0 conflict management-resolution TRACK4: Alternative Global Futures forecasting preferred techniques++ world orders + . ~ futureology t ' trend as a field • analysis policy studies and policy prescription Continued on page 3 Letters Dear Sir: A most shocking state of affairs has recently come to our attention. While jointly researching for a senior seminar course in the library, we discovered the theft of a good deal of primary source material. We insist that a full outcry should he made by the concerned students on this campus who are into full outcries, and that an exiguous investigation be conducted by the security forces. Specifically. the material consists· Ia rgely of transcripts and documents which are irreplaceable and have been cited by the National Society of Symptomatology as \ ... priceless relics of a newly-pixilated cult which may soon be a major learning method.\ .(Quoted in Journal of Symptomatology, July 1970). These transcripts were among a 'collection which was recently left to the College by the Class of '98 Book Fund. and were located on the third floor 0f the library. near the topographic maps. They were bound in green cloth. and bore the title: \The Mandeville Commission Report.\ 196X. Volumes 1-V. We urge t he Co II e ge community to take all such action as may be dilatory to this cause ~in the attempt to recover these works. In Grateful Appreciation, Prof. G. Mann Bill Durks '73 -Hoyt Shoemaker '73 James E. Strafes '73 * * * * To the Editor: It was reported in Tuesday night's Concordy that Bob ~ernhard.t will be playing the Coffeehouse on May 25. I am happy to hear this. but _I think your reporter did a disservice to another fine musician by omitfting his name. Kevin Drayton, a \'Cteran folk-rock performer. wil:l he making his Union debut on the same hill. * * Dear Editor: Sincerely, Paul Delfin '73 * * Your \Spring Concerts\ reporter is guilty of the sin of omission. Bob Bernhardt is not playing that gig alone: in fact, he's sharing the stag~ with another talented Union performer, the irrepressible Tom Parisi. Just thought I'd let you know. Sincerely. Kevin Drayton '73 * * * * To the Editor: Delfin's playing, too. * * To the Editor: Sincerely, Tom Parisi '73 '* * One of God's first projects upon creation oft he heavens and the earth was to issue the decree, \Let there be light.\ If one thinks hack he may recall that indeed there was light. Why is it then, one wonders, that after the creation of our very own hell on earth (a.k.a. the Fox House lounge) we too cannot have our plea of \let there be light\ answered also. To he more specific. there is p~csently a grand total of one (.cou!lt 'em one) light of an unspecified wattage that is responsible for providing C_ontinued on page 3 ••••••••••••••••••••••••••••••••• . ~- • • : Country Squire Motel : • • : Corner Rts. 146 and 20 : • • • Western Ave., Schenectady • • • : 355 .. 3110 : • • • Single - $10 Double - $14 a . \ . ••••••••••••••••••••••••••••••••• CHILLED BOTTL.E OF WINE n n FROM U' U Moffett's Liquor Store ~ ~ 15~~VAN V~~NK!N ~· ...J a fl Sl sl tl c1 c1 l'v n h .. \' li a 0 h \'I a1 ;u ,.q ~- li, h; fr tl\ '\' r Cl 1' ~

peti- the am ink to a the '73 of e's he y, ts d d e e r j ) ·' ' \ CONCfJ~DJENSJS, Friday, May 4, 1973 Page3 Class of 1973 Memorial Fund Buffalo Assemblyman To Speak Buffalo Assemblyman Arthur 0. Eve will speak here on campus next Wednesday, May 9 at S p.m. in Butterfield 204. Severa·! members of the class of 1973 have formed a committee whose purpose it is to create a fund as a memorial to two of their classmates, Kelvin Cook and Edward Corbett. The fund would provide for a study lounge in ·the new library extension. A copy of the letter appears he low: Dear fellow classmate, At aro open senior class meeting held last week and attended by approximately thirty-five people, it was decided that the class of 1973 would work to create a fund to pro.vide a study lounge in the new library extension i;ind at the same time serve as a memor.ial to two classmates, Kelvin Cook and Edward Corbett. Both the Cook and Corbett family have granted their full support and consent to the fund, as have Kelvin's fflaternity brothers at Delta Chi. We believe the f1..1nd is important for the following reasons: The library must be considered the most important resource of an academic institution. It is an area where the senior class can make an imp-ortant donation to the college cormmmity, especially during this time of financial strain. Such a memorial fund will be a fitting tribute to two classmate~-- who were working, as are all of us, -t(l attain the goal of graduation. but who tragically passed away before reach·ing that goal. A plaque would be placed in the library in their memory. Donations could possibly com'e from these sources: One could make a personal donation. One could donate all or part of the $50 refundable deposit that Was paid to the College to insure a place in the class of 1973. Originally, it was seen that one could donate the $9 that it would cost to have purchased a cap and gown. This still exists as a possibility 'if the cap and gown deadline is extended. We urge you to support this class project to aid the college community and to express our respects to both the Cook and Corbett families. We need your help to ma.ke the goals of this fund a reality. If you wish to donate. you are urged to make a pledge at your earliest convenience. Both pledges and donations may be turned in to the Student Activities Office. where Mrs. Marra will answer any questions you might have abc~ut this fund. Results of the fund drive will be announced at graduation. We greatly appreciate your time and consideration of this class of '73 memorial fund. Letters Continued from Page 2 all of the light in the lounge. To further add ,insult to injury. this sole light has a hood over it and shines in only one place. I believe that at one time there was a chandelier that did a l·clativelv c1TcctiYC ioh. Whv is it then th<tt Maintcn;;nc.c (o~ whomever is responsible) cannot find it in their hest interest to replace thb lighting ohjcct'? The lounge is now a health hmard (we could break our necks tripping over objects hidden in the dark!)eSs) and not \Wy conducive to \hanging around\ in. Please someone. ans\\:cr our plea of \let there he lil!ht\ or we will have to resort to h~tnging a bare 100 watt bulb from the chandelier socket for this corning_ ... _Parents' Weekend. l'hank vou for your time and cnnsider~lt ion. Sincerely, The Three Blind Mice, n~e The Three Mtisketeers The fund has met with a relat·ively favorable response and the forms that are attached to the letters sent to Seniors can still be turned in to Mrs. Marra in the Student Activities Office. If anyone has ai'ly questions they should speak with either Mrs. Marra or Mark ShugoiL Peace Continued from page 2 TRACK 5: Problem Specialization a . .third-world pmblems econ. development human rights in 3rd world + civil war and domestic violence strategies of third world changt b. nuclear war theories of deterrence viable systems history of disarmament of weapons reduction .L future weapons T systems in t exna ti onal controls The above tracks are illustrative and not exhaustive; the possibilities depend on the availability of relevant courses and faculty expertise. All majors would develop their areas of specialization only 1n combination with a core s.et of courses designed to provide the fundamentals of p'eace studies as a field. D. Organization and Requirements for the Major (Tentative} I. The maJor is designed as a joint major between political science and sociology. Majors would be required to take 12 courses in their major; not all of these need be in the two departments. Appropriate courses in other fields, with the permission of the major advisor. can be substituted for political science or sociology courses. The two-term senior project is in addition to the 12 courses for the major. Most peace studies majors could. and probably would, take more than 12 courses in the major. Now serving his fourth term in · the State Assembly, Arthur 0. Eve is founder and President of t h e B u ffa I o Ch a I I e n g e r Newsweekly, Western New York's largest Black newsweekly, serving Buffalo and Rochester, New York. He is a member of the Assembly Socia I Services Committee. the Ways and Means Committee, and the Codes Assemblyman Eve Committee. as well as its five- member Subcommittee on Penal Institutions. He is a three-term member of the Joint Legislative The Union College Social . Committee is proud to present for Parents'. Weekend: the Charles Lloyd Quartet, Sat11rday, May 5th, at 8:30 p.m. in Memorial Chapel. Tickets are $2.00 for Union students and their guests, and $2.50 for others. Also, on Sunday, May 6th, the Union College Jazz Workshop wilJ perform, free, in Library Plaza (weather permitting) froiD 1:00 p.m. on. * * * * Hillel wiJI be participating in Schenectady's celebration of the 25th Israeli Independence Day on Sunday •. If you want to be in, or just watch, the parade, come to West College Parking Lot- at 9:30 a.m. (Bring your car.) Or, join us at the JCC, 2565 Halltown . Rd., at noon. Bring your parents if they're here. Also, if you wish to be one of the runners transporting a scroll from Israel from the airport to Niskayuna, call Scott at 370-2930. Each person runs Y2 mile. 2. Of the 12 ·courses for the remaining courses from a list of major. Cive courses would be core courses designated as peace required. These courses are: PS studies courses (with the 10 and 12. Soc, I 0 and 35. and cooperation and consent of either PS 20 or Soc. 60.\Within course instructors). While most the next three years. if the major courses on this list would be in proves viable. two additional the two Departments. courses courses are contemplated and from other disciplines would be would be introduced into the included. curriculum; one would be an Illustrative Core Course List: upper level PS course entitled Political Science: 1 o, 12. 20. \Prohlems of World Order.\ and UJ. 134, 13 6 , 141-159(courseson the other would be an upper level comparative, I.R. and foreign Soc. course on specific topics in policy). 166 . 171. 172. 211. senior conflict resolution. The two-term thesis and seminars. senior project would include .a k I · f II . Sociology: 10. 35, 37. 50. 60. wee y semmar o a · semor · I . h . 112. 124. 136. 146. 157. 160. 167, maJors p us a semor t · es1s. senior thesis. J. Depending on his or her Other core courses: Economics particular interests, peace studies - IO. II. I4J. l44. Biopolitics majors would choose their Continued on page 5 Maurice Be Grauhart ·, & Sons The Jay Street Jeweler FOR HONEST SERVICE AND GOOD JEWELRY ''For Three Generations\ 166 JAY STREET, DOWNTOWN 374-5404 Committee on Crime, its Causes and Effects on Society. Mr. Eve was inside Attica State ·Prison from September 9-13, 1971 and was elected Chairman of the permanent, National Attica Observer Committee. His concern for prison and parole reform is of long standing, having previously introduced a number of bills in this field, and he is now the ranking minority member of the S u be om mitt e e on Pen a I. Institutions. Since September 13. 1971 Mr. Eve has honored a pledge to let the people of the nation know the truth about Attica, to build a broad-based constituency to support prison, pa-role, and human reforms. Since his election in 1966. Mr. Eve has been responsible for the development of the SEEK.-EOP programs in Buffalo, and in the State University system. In 1971 alone, over 10 million dollars was appropriated ·for upstate SEEK- EOP. Over 13 mi.Uion dollars was designated for SEEK-EOP and related programs upstate for 1972. Mr. Eve is the author of legislation that prevents utility companies from cutting off gas and electric services to people on puhlic assistance. He also sponsored legislation to provide the first $50 million of state bond funds for the development of dav \They do not love care centers by community and non-profit groups. He has introduced legislation dealing · with a number of subjects including education, housing, recreation, social services, crime prevention, job training, employment opportunities, prison and parole reforms, and senior citizen needs. Many community awards have been given to Mr. Eve: 1967 the Communi.ty Service Award, Buffalo Club of the National Association of Ne.gro Business and Professional Women's Clubs, Inc.; Outstanding Citizen's A ward. Youth Division of the Michigan Ave. YMCA; !96'S the Outstanding Citizen Award. for his contribution to education and human relations, given by the Citizens' Council on Human Relations of Buffalo and Western ~ew York; the Annual Civil Liberties Award of the Niagara Frontier Chapter of the New York Civil Liberties Union; 1969 the First Medgar Evers Award. for outstanding concern and accomplishment in civil rights, Buffalo Branch. NAACP: King of St. Philip's Coronation Ball, for outstanding service to his community; 1971 Civil Rights Award of the Afro-American Policemen's Association of Buffalo. that db not show their lov~.\ William Shakespeare Choose Keepsake with complete conflde'nce, because the famous Keepsake Guarantee assures a perfect engagement diamond of precise cut and superb color. There is no finer diamond ring. Rings from SlOO-S 10,000 T-M Reg. A H. Pond Co. -- -------------. HOW TO PLAN YOUR ENGAGEMENT AND WEDDING 1 Send new 20 pg. booklet, \Planning Your Engagement and W(!dding\ plus 1 full _J::olor folder and 44 pg. Bride's Book gift offer all for only 25¢. S· 73 I Name _________________________ ~~------------- Address----------~---------------- Ci+v-~------~------Co.---------------- I I I I I I I State . . Zip I ~-!:=~~:_~~A~~ -R~~s.:.. ~::_ ~·-s~~~~:_!l..:. ::_ ::2~ _ f

page4 ' .. _... -~ - CONCORD!ENS!S, Fr~day, May 4i 1973 - Support.· North/South Vietnam Fund~ This Weekend· - - - .,. - ·- - • - ... -

j CONCORDIENSIS, Friday, May 4, 1973 Page J Student Committee · An Open Letter Altho\lgh a bit delayed, the AN OPEN WHOMEVER LISTEN: LETTER WANTS TO TO. Student Committee on. Appointments Don't you just want to scream sometimes'? Don•t you hate it with a passion when that book you're looking for is not on that shelf and should be'? Doesn't it make you want to spit?!! · the library, but the figure is without a doubt in the thousands. An inventory for the 300 section of the library (Social Sciences which includes economics, government. law, etc ... ) was taken at two different times in the past. B.efore the summer of '72 425 books were missing and an additional 595 books are missing from an inventory in the summer of '72 making a grand total of 1020 missing books in only a small section of the library. If these figures do not perturb you, then something is wrong. Committees would like to submit .the committee appointments for the 1973-1974 academic year. Despite pr.ohlems througheut the past three weeks, the Committee has attempted to place the applicants. as fairly as possible aCcOFdirig to interview situations or recommendations. Although the number of interviewees grew at times to a relatively lar:ge number and time· was short, aU possible aspects were taken into consideration. Often, decisions were made tnore difficult as a result of an abundance of qualified applicants and the limited number of places which were available on the committees. We hope ·that all those who applied realize some of the problems that iire involved in the selection process. The.re were more than 350 appliCatiGns for 29 committees. Despite this large number, decisions have been made for all of the committees, with the exception of Comprehensive Education, Athletics, and Salaries. Promotion, and Tenure. We hope to have these three committees completed in the very near future. We woula also like.it to be known that the Committee on Committees will entertain additional applications for the Honors and Fellowship Lectures. Liaison and Governance, and Honorary Degrees Committees. If \'OU have any intere~t in one Of ihese comru\ittees. applications will be available in the Student Activities Office. 4 Just as a reminder. if you do not see your name under the· Com-mittee that was your first preference. please check the rest of the committees for a possible appointment. We would wish that all those who ha\'c not been appointed to a committee ·will serve student body interests in another capacity. It is our further hope that all those who have been appointed to a committee will serve faithfully and sincerely. Indians 1973-1974 CO~MITTEE APPOJNTM,ENTS Student Life ))art Wolfe .. Judith Male Jerry Comatos I,ynn Sutton Mitch Weisburgh Lauren Gordon 'Graduate Studies ·-Dick Levinson Bill Po_ellmitz ( Financial Aid Barbara Burek Fred Lanes . M&rcia Cantor College Center Brw;e Me L!au~liri Bill Underhill Liz Pava Ca,thy Mitchell Leslie Herman* Development Fred Umane Andy Walsh John Moessinger Jack Roscoe Peter Tavino Mary Beth Smith Library Meredith August Hunt Eggleston Carol Meyer Foreign Students John Perlstc;;in Lisa Kasten CAC Tom Hartman Judy Dein Cheryl Miller Tax Committee Nick 'Coward, Secretary Tom Burbank, Member at Large· AOC Pat Truax Milton Herring Den DeCesare Arron Clendenen· Sandy Debriane Social Lois Brustman, .Assistant Chairma'n Mike Milsom Stephen Lewis Chris Ketchem, lFC Anne Bouvouloir Erica Lorber Barb Sherman Jill Manning JeffWysoff Jim Mori Craig Jackson Social Committee Tech. Audrey Kupchan Tam Behrendt Joanne Muttner Kelly Newton Carl Schwartz Dan Miley Why is it that people (students, faculty and visitors included) take books out of the library without checking them ,o.ut first? Is it that little extra time that makes these' people want to do these things? Or is it because they want the book for the entire year? What are the motives? Why do people mutilate books'! Is it because the book itself is too heavy tp carry back. whereas the pages needed are not'! Is it really necessary to write in library hooks'! Is it? The entire problem is senseless. The library this year has kept track of books returned which were never charged out and as of Tuesday. May I the total is 72S. There is no indication of the total number of books missing from What can you do? If you have any library books that are not checked out, check them out. If you just want to return them but are afraid of the fine drop them in the book drop in front of the library. Another thing - if you notice anyone tearing pages out of a magazine or book in the library, cuff him once for me and the rest of the student body and faculty. Thanks, Geoffrey Taylor Student Member of the Library Committee Hans Black Fabien Michel Computer Science Housing Jim Alberg (Center I Rep.) Maria Sanfelice Wendy Wolk John Silverman (c:;:enter li Rep.) Steering Committee · Jim Kestenbaum Nina Wolfe Ellen Rassmussen Don DeCesate ... advisor Honors and Fello.wships Lois Brustman John Perlstein Open Open Environment Discipline Cliff Langweiller Paul (Qnnors Tom Watts Bill Poellmitz Fred Wei! . n~ve Heilberg Pat Bohen Joel Buckberg Standing of Students Judy Small John Glover Bruce Downsbrough Jim Rostenberg Studies Abroad Tom Werger Hans Black Rick Lyness Upward Bound John Fran.za Estelle Cool<e Ardeth Jamison Budget and Priorities Helen Billak Al Reisch Brian Shoot Barbara Ganey John Dolan* Harry Lessin Elections Steve Wayne Phil Alcabes Admissions Lois Timms Ellyn Roth Peggy Miller Mark Horowitz Kate Hurley Educational Innovation Reed Russell Linda Burns Committees to be Decided Comp. Ed. Athletics Lectures Salaries Promotions and Tenure Committees with Openings Honors and Fellowship (2) Liason and Governance (2) Honorary Degrees (2) Lectures (2) Letters To The Editor: Continued from pag~ 1 The third order of husiness was President Brown's proposal to set up a large bulletin board in the Student Center. to serve as a .central Ride l;lqard. This. he hoped. \1 CHild e7J~inate or reduce the l!SL\· of walls and doors in dorms as imprompw ride boards. rhe nnt St~ng Committee meeting will take place in D:11 id~on Lounge on M ondav. ~ . May 14. Steering Committee Minutes Tuesday, May I, 197J Present \\ere: Larry Brown. ~1ark Young. Cathy lanelli. Don DeCesare. Pat Wardell. Debbie (llasser. Kohcl Haver, and Don l.euch. Pnnost F::nteman and the newly appointed Dean Smith also attended the meeting as invited l!liCStS. Provost Enternan said that he \1 ould be glad to meet with three ~tudents to research alternate school calendars. A motion was made to appoint Don McManamon, Kobel Haver. and Cathy lanelli to work with Prm ost 1-:nteman and correspond mer the summer in order to present their finding~ next year. It \las ~uggcsted that it be announced in the Concord) that am student who is interested in th(~ topic or who has suggestions to please contact Don. Kohel. or Cathy. The motion \\ll~ appnncd. 4-3. It was then mmed and agreed upon that \le should look i1Ho getting a Ride Hoard and a Hulll'tin Board set up in the Student Center as soon as possi hie . ...f.) on Leach volunteered to look into the matter and see that it was done. The last order of business on . Continued from page 1 compared this· experience with hi·s own tribal experiences. ·stating that he was u11happy in American society hecause he changed his set of values. \When the Indian tries to Jiye up to middle class America\s materialistic values. he gets frustrated.\\ It is interesting to ~lote that the Indian had no religion as we know it. before white man came with his \institu tiona li1ed religions.\ 1\ t the beginning of this term. the College had plans to ca_neel Hehrcw entirely for next year. Many ol: us then. as we ha\e bd(~re. e:-;pl-cssed our deep concern for the Hebrew Program. a~ Un~on ·College. I personally spoke to various committee and a?mmtstrat_ton memhcrs. appeared at a Hudget and Pt·ioritics Committee mectmg. and wrote letter upon lcttel'. . ' The first open hearing of the newly elected Steering Committee was co1wened at lU 5 p.m. in Strauss Lounge of the Student Center with President Larry lirown presiding. l.arry Hrown opened the meeting with a statement on the p(llicies for the upcoming year's meetings. It was agreed that meetings will he held on Mondays at Y: 15 P. ~. I he locations will be at different places on campus. in wtating lit-.hion. All \ ot ing will h~ roll call \ otes so that a record of' how each member 1otcd on any issue ~s kept. the agenda was a re\ iew of the College Senate meeting held earlier Tuesday. Pat Wardell then hrought to the Committee\ attention that the dc\'clopment of an Audit Committee had heen appnned hy thl' former Steering Committee on April Y. 197J. Thi~ 1\udit ( ·ommittec. which consists of the Secretary of Tax Committee. the \\ice President of 'the student hody. and one junior and one senior representati1e on the St,·ering Committee. \\as eo,;tahli•d1ed to check the finances Chief l.atore recogni7es a great deal of rrcjudice against Indians. \.'specially from residents nearby rescn:atinns. The chief confessed. \\Whites arc here to s.ta\'. We have to learn to li\e together·. This does not mean th<tl assimilation into a culture must he forced upon us.\ Peace Continued from page 3 course~. Philosophy 13. Psyc.!:!.ology 10. 24. others. Note: particular Comp. Ed. or Exp. Ed .. l\Ours\es could be used to fulfill course requirements for the Peace -Studies h1ajors. if these courses are not also used to fulfill Comp. Ed. requirements. Comp. Ed. courses considered appropriate for the major would be listed .at the beginning of each year. Coordinators of this major are Prof. Dee Wernette (Sociology) and Prof. Norman Walbek (Political Science), 1\ftl'r such expression of concern oy many students. faculty members. parents. and other oubidc comrr~unity. members. the administration came ur with an attempt to pacify us . .I heir rlan :'as to releuate Hcbre\V to the I:veniitg l>i1ision. The School felt tim a good idea because they don\t pay anything for an Evening Division course. hcning Division courses are supported solely hy tui.tion of those outside communit\' members enrolled. /\.t least 10 outsiders must he enrolled in a cou~se for the course hudg,·t to remain sol\'ent. f'he three HebrC\\ courses. though. as Prmost Entcman takes great .pains to point out. would be ofkrl'd 'con risk\ the _first year. In other words. if I 0 outsiders do not en nill t.he courses will be offered for one \'car anvwav. Howe~·cr. and. thi~ is the very important point the Pnl\ost ta~es great pains not to point out. if there i~ insufficient outs~<.k enrlll'll11cnt Hchrew 11 ould almost Cl'ltaily he cancelled the followmg \'ear. · I ha1.e told the Provost, the Bud!:!et and Priorities Committee. and othcn imohcd that Hebrew will almmt definitely not get sullicient outside enrollment. It is possihle for community members to take Hebrew--at a local synagogue for under S 10. Why would anyone \\ant to pay SI05. for a difficult collcg~J-k\el course when the) can pay almost nothing for a much cas'h:.tr co~1rsc'! . . . . . 1 he rele-gation of Hebrew to the henlllg DI\I~J.on_ 1s indeeu a fairly good mme to pacify students. However. 1t 1s not good enougl1. Hch 1 ·ew is a 'iahle program that deser\cs to he <1 regular nndcrgraduate day course .. By not n~nt_inuin~ . it. as such the admini~tration is demonstratmg a la11t<.1~t 1c 1nsenst11\ 1ty to the needs of a Ia rge numocr ·or students. 1 \\·ill not accept the administrati\e claim tlu~t financial prohl~ms constitute the rnot of Hcbi'ews intended dl'misC. I do not hcl1c\c that if the administration truly wan tee} ttl, it could not find a lousy S.'UlOO in the entire school hudgct for a \\hole year of Hchrew: And I lllll not satisfied with administrati1e aHcmpb made to raCily us with half a solution. Mo!\t SincHely, Marc\' Schwartz l~residt•;ll of IIillt•l I he first order of husincs~ was the discussion of the referendum \lhich was passed April 24. 1973. !'egg~ Miller hrought it to the :1ttention of the Steering Committee that the passage of this referendum sets a precedent for allowirig changes in the Constitution to he made through the process of a referendum. l :trry Hrown agreed that the Constitution should not he eli a ngL·d hy referendum. and recommended that open meetings he Sl't Up and pllhfici;ed for the rail to discuss and rclisc the college COJll munity 1ote on it. The ('onstitutiun: and then have the dbcussion wus tahled until a later date when copies of the Conlltitution Will he made :t,\.ailahlc to e1ervonc. The next iten; on the agenda \las hrought before the Steering. C\llilmittee O\ Don Me Ma namon. H ix c\oncern v.as \liih a ~tudent ~cntimcnt to chance th~ 3-3-3 sch1lol calcnd:tr. Jl~ l~lt that all choices had not - hct.'n pl'l.'~entcd in last year\, n'len'ndum for cak'ndar change. of any club or aeti1 ity. Peggy Miller asked for eomments or opinions on the Social Committee\ ohligation to rcgnlate their c4uipment and all of the concerts on campus. It v. a~ gennally felt that Social Commi !tee equipment ~hou ld h~ a1;1ilahle to an~ organited student !!roup on campm if there is thL· technical knowledge to use it. Peggy a I so ment inned that she 1\0tlld like feedback on a possible proposal to change the organi;ation of the Social ( 'ommittee. I hL· meeting was adjourned at 10:00 P.M. lhe next meeting will hL• in Da\\id-;on lounge. \llonday. \1a~ 14. 1973 at G: 15 P.M. Levrs Dave's· Mens Shop 453 State St. · (downtown Schenectady)

Page 6 . CONCORDIENS!S, Friday, Mqy 4, 1973 Baseball Sweeps 11-0; 4-0 by PETE FEAMAN The Union baseball team lifted its record to 7-2 on Tuesday and Wednesday by shutting out both Utica and Alhanv State. Westbrook managed four singles with Bernhardt and Arons connecting for three and two. respectively. lhc Du.tchmen recorded plate and cracked a two-r.b.i. single. scoring runs J and 4. On Tuesday · Bob Mitchell pitched his second shutout of tht: season while the hitters managed eleven runs to topple Utica. The On•··' ''•en posted two runs in the St:C<l'IJQ, two more in the third, anti led by a score of 8-0 after a feu r run hurst in tJle fifth. The sc0ring ended in ·rhe seventh and I eft Union with an insurmountable lead of II runs. another shutout on Wednesday as tl~cy got by Albany State. 4-U. lht: Union offense came up wiHt all four of their runs in the second inning and then coasted bel:!ind the thrt:e-hit pitching of Urschel tl:!e rest of the way. In ·the bottom of the second, Rick Awns led off with a single :and was forced at. second by Westbrook; Wandel Urschel held Albany at bay for the remainder of the game and (Inion picked up their seventh \1·in of tht: season. The highlight of the game. however. came in the top of the ninth when (oach I awr~:nce fielded a tough foul hat! that trickled to his feet and tossed it back into the game. The Dutchmen face Siena on Alexander F.ield today at 3:00. Bob Mitchell hurls vs. Utica photo by Les Kernan The only extra base hh in the game came in the fifth when Greg Brced·love connected for a three bagger. Greg was also the leading run producer with five R.B.I.\s to his credit. Shortstop Ron 4 reached on 'I ease hi[ pushing Westbrook to second; and the latter scored on a base hit by Breedlove. Catcher Skip Lega walked to load the bases and Lax bruise Trinity by FRANCESCO ISGRO Led hy Sophomore Robert Grossman, who scored two goa:Js and accounted for three assists, the Union College Laxmen cruised past Trinity College I J -4. last Wednesday on Daley Field. U rscht:l sacrificed home the second run of the inning. Hemharclt then stepped up to the Ron Westbrook swings for one offour singles. photo by Les Kernan . Tennis Wins by RICHARD B. THAll The victory wasn't easy as the final outcome would imply. The Dutchmen were \well bruised as they cruised,\ and most of the players hit the dirt at least once. Trinity's handling of thcr game must have surprised the Garnet. as they were down 2-l at the end of the ~irst period. \Mini\ Don~Ward. a fr.eshman who has shown a consistency of good playing attempted the first goal, which was saved. Another Freshman, Bruce Davis, who is beginning to see some action had another unsuccessful attempt. hini.ty got on the scoreboard with 6:57 left on the clock, as no . to go Don Ward sneaked one in. At the end of the half the score stood at 4-J in favor of the Garnets. Don Ward opened the second half with another tally, foi.Jowed hy another point from Trinity. Mike Garone placed an assist to no. 16 whq tallied, and with 12 seconds to go Mark Walsh threw the seventh goal of the day. The Trinity laxmen were completely overpowered by the Garnets .in the last period. Grossman. Walsh, Walker and Carabedian had a tally each to close the contest at I 1-4. AI Ritchie had 13 saves for the Dutchmen. lhis Saturday the Allison's coached team travels to Troy to meet arch-rival R.P.I. in a game which will definitely be played until the end. Union's season's record stands a.t 4-3. and a victory over the Engineers would give the Garnets (almost) a winning season. ~l & @ PH?!~!.INC. ~ .~Accuracy 527 Union St: Schenectady N.Y. ·Ph. 370-2300 WELCOME § So UNION STUDENTS- ~ b-.<o->~<Q><6n~I-O\><Q>0 The Union netmen trounced Siena College in an away match Wednesday. sweeping the six singles and three doubles. The unhea.ten Dutchmen lost only one set in defeating their fourth consecutive opponent. complete the singles sweep. In the doubles matches, the tandem of Cukierman and Rakoczy beat Fox and Jordan 6- 4. o-4 while Crawford and Simos crushed Karins and Cotbishley without losing a game. In the afternoon\s final match, Laroesch and Jim Skiff squeeked by Natoli and Bloomingdale 6-2. 2-6, 6-0. l 5 whipped a clean. unexpected shot to surprised Ritchie. A rninute later Harry Garabedian evened the contest with an even better shot. Trinity was able to tally with 43 seconds left, and R itehie made a great save with 21 seconds on the clock. At the end of the half the score stood 4-3 in favor of the Garnets. NOW THRU TUES. NITEL Y 7:15 & 9:15 .luni·or captain Marty Cukierman whipped Terry Fox 6- 0. 6M3 in the first singles. match while Roman Rakoczy nipped Boo Jordan 6-4, 6-4. Kevin Crawford and Dan Simos easily handled their opponents Jimmy Bloomingdale and Bernie Corbishlev bv identical 6-0. 6-1 scores. siu ~·ishler disposed of Jim Karins. losing only one game in each set. and Jack Laroesch toppled Tom Nastoli 6-2, 6-2 to The Dutchmen, so ably . coached by Gary Walters. next face Harpur in the season's big match. For all those who don't know where the tennis matches are held. which seems to be a majority of the school, you are all encouraged to Watch the Dutchmen in action on our tennis courts behind the Humanities huilding. \LITTLE VINNIES\ PIZZERIA c::;:~ .~)~ We V'~-Y > 783 ALBANY ST., SCH'DY. Mon.-Tues. all you can eat $1.00 LASAGNA HOME MADE CALL E(;GPLANT BREAD 374-5600 Deliver Grossman opened the 2nd period by an unassisted tally. Trinity behind the effort of no. J.D. came right back with another point. With about 10 minutes left. Ritchie found himself away from the net. with the ball laying unprotected on the ground. Luckily the Trinity players failed to capitalize as he missed the goal from about 6 feet. Then no. 19 Bruce Dmis. tallied for his first of the seassm. and with 18 seconds - Dave's' Mens Shop 453 State St. (downtown Schenectady) THAT l-IE SOUGHT THE COUr-&SEL OF A SPECJALISTE ... ONCE A KNIGHT RECEIVETH NEWS THAT FILLED HIS HEART WITH SUCH JOY ••• Wl:/q !='OR THE PRICE OF A 6- PACK OF SCHAEFER BEERE AFFORDED A WONDROUS METHOD TO MAJ<E ARCHES ~ DISAPPEAR. tiMit -\~,~----~ Schaefer Breweries, New York and Albany, N.Y., 8aitlmore, Md., Lehigh Valley, Pa, . \Sex and violence are blended with diabolical zest.\ - Playboy 'The most genuinely frightening film since 'Psycho!\' - Hollywood Reporter \A witty homage to Hitchcock ... A tour de force ... An exercise in mounting fear and suspense.\ -- Los Angeles Times .)' ...

to j CONCORDIENSJS, Friday, May 4, 1973 Page 7 Top scorer Dennis Walker; No. II sets to ji'r.e. No. 10 is .second leading scorer Rohert Grossman. photo by Bill Erichson J.V. Triumph by JOAN & KIPP In the horendous drizzle over I )a lev Field. the J. V': laxmen came out to battle against the Statesmen of Albany. Plastered with mud and dripping Wet. ll nion slid past their opponents. winning by three. The margin remained fairly constant as the Dutchmen won, 9-6. At onlv I :24 into the game, the Statesmc~ fired in a goal, but Charlie Howe came back and scored the first of his five goals at X:JO minutes to tie the score. By the end of the first period, the score stood 3-·1 with the Dutchmen's additional two from Steve Gu·Hans and Howe. The · second period resulted in a tough. scoreless battle. Goalie Don Kaufman saved seven while Albanv\s Davern deflected eight. s.u:N.Y.A. broke the scoring lull early in the third period as H illv shot two into Unions nets. tying up the score. Union retaliated when Jim Collin whipped one past the tender at 6:0~. and further strengthened . their lead when Howe and Hallahan scored 19 seconds apart at IO:JO and 10:49 respectively. ·rhe fourth quarter saw three goals for both the Dutchmen and the Statesmen. Only 44 set;ands into the period Steve Gullans, assisted hy Charlie Howe chalked up the seventh goal. Unions' eighth was scored when Howe flung one into the nets. on a perfect pass from Gullans. Charlie Howe then racked up his fifth fer the dav with only four minutes left in the game. In the remaining time. S.U.N.Y.A. scored twice. hut' the Dutchmen's lead was too great to overcome. The J.V. Iaxmen now stand·at . 5-3-0~ after beating Siena on Tuesday for' the second time, 6-4, and losing a heartbreaker to Middlebury on Saturday, J.0-9. The Engineers of R.P.l. will meet the Dutchmen on Saturday at 2:00 on Daley Field. It should be a exciting battle as the J.V.'s seek their sixth victory, before an cnth usiastic. parent-filled crowd. LUIGI'S RESTAURANT SPECIALIZING IN Italian- American Food 1125 BARRETT ST. SCHENECTADY 016-97 44 Enjoy Sizzling Steaks and Chops Visit Our Cocktail Bar Your friendly -neightior- hood good neighbor. Maybe you're one of those people who thinks of The American Red Cross only when you see a news report of a flood or hurricane on tv. And it's true-we're there. In hours. Giving aid. And comfort. .And supplying the necessities of life. All as a gift from You-the American people. But the other things we do are just as important, if not so spectacular. And they happen right in your own home town. The truth of the matter is: Red Cross is what you need it to be. Wherever you live. Whoever you are. That's why you find us doing different things in different home towns. We teach qlind kids to swim in some places. Or make sure ghetto youngsters have ice skates. Or teach baby care to deaf mothers. Or help out with drug programs. You name it. We do it. Whatever a community needs. is what Red Cross needs to do. So, in a very real' sense, you are Red Cross. And Red Cross is you. And helping the Red Cross is very like helping yourself. + ~od ne1ghbor.. The American Red Cross .?~~ i!dvertising contributed for the public good ~ \au~c..'\'Q Tennis: Up to Date by TERI FREY The Union Tennis Team remain undefeated with a season record of 3-0 after travdling to RPI ·last Tuesclay and trouncing ll·tiaa at home on Wednesday. First and third seeded players. Martv Cukicrman and Stu Fishier won .·o-0. 6-0. For the second consecutive vear RPJ arrived late, and this tim\e too late .. Their first seeded player did not arrive until fnrtv minutes after match play in the . other contests commenced and R PI\s third ~eeded player didn't show until they were ready to play doubles. Last year RPl\ team arrived at Union at 3:00 for a 'I :JO match. Union's number two player, Roman Rakoczy, a transfer student from Northeastern fell to R Pr s Bill S te intoder after · a hattie which involved split sets (9- 7. 6~~;, 6-4). Roman suffel'ed from a weak serve and due to cramps he was unable to move to the net. Sophomore: Kevin Crawford tore apart Rick BucherofRPI in two quick. 6-l. 6-1 sets. Kevin. who traded in his basketball for a tennis racquet. is a very consistent player and manages to remain extremelv calm on the courts. Dan .:Freshman Flash\ Simos, from Bethesda. Maryland, is one of the team's Freshmen. Dan is a very stwng, steady player with an exceptional backhand. ·Union will miss him next year when he leaves for the University .of North Carolina at Chapel Hill. Simos dropped his first set to RPI's Craig Skivington 4-6, but made a comeback to take the last two sets 6-J. 6-4. At one point Simos had the set at 5-l. Steve Wayne fell to Mike Wong of R PI· after a tough match. Wong took the first set 6- 3. dropped the second set to Steve after a long rally &-8. and overcame Steve in the third set. again 6-3. The first doubles team of Marty Cukierman and Jim Skiff fell to Phipps and Stineroder 8M6, 6-4. despite Cukierman's powerful serve. Fishier and Crawford teamed together to defeat RPTs second team of Strife and Haskell. Union fell in the first set 4-6 and went to 40-30 with Crawford serving. Kevin sa vcd an ace (hidden in his hip pocket) for the final point of the game that brought the sets e1cn again. Crawford and Fish'ler. tHok the set 21-19. The· final set · was called because of darkness which ended the match in a draw. There is still some dispute as to whether the victory belongs to l'n ion because of R PI's failure to arri1c and begin on time. Simos and Jack Lauroesch quickly defeated Skivingt0n and Wong 6-3. 6-4, .giving the team a \·,icton of 5Y'2-JY:! over RPI's ·ltlrke-ys. ' Wednesday, Union defeated Utica in front of a small but appreciable home crowd. Steve Wayne gave up only one game to Utica's Civitillo 6-1, 6-0. Freshman Simos shut out his opponent. McMahon 6-0,6-0. Kevin Crawford again displayed strength and consistency defeating Goodman 6-1. 6-L Stu \Buffoon\ Fishier finally g(~t a chance to display his on- court talents, which occasionally include tennis and frequently include entertaining his fam, by defea.ting Utica's Heacock, 7M5, 6- 4. Rakoczy was still feeling pain in his leg after R PI's match. but came back victorious 6-2. 6-3 over Calabrese of Utica. lJ nion\s only defeat was also it's most exciting match. Marty Cul<.ierman fell to Carter Reul in a split set match. Cukierrtlan, with the aid of his tremendous serve, took the first set 6-1. but 'feU to Reul 3-6. 1-6 in the last sets . Lauroesch and Simos easily defeated Utica's McMahon and Osuchwski, 6-0,' 6-1. Crawford and Fisqler gave up four games in the first set to Heacock and Goodman, but only relinquished one game in the second for a match score of 6-4. 6-l. Cukierman and Rakoczy gave the remaining fans a reason (or staying by defeating Calabrese and Reul 6-3, 7-6. In a thrilling tie breaker where Rakoczy and Cuker were down 4-2 and Roman served three times for the match which was ·finally put away by Cuker. TC)p-seed Marty Cukierman p!J.oto by _Cindy Wolfson l..:reative Franung · Original Graphics Posters ARTISTS' SUPPLY 163 Jay St. tevrs Dave's. Mens Shop 453 State St. (downtown Schenectady). -·-- I I. \I have entered on an enterprize which is without precedent, and will have no imitation. I propose to show my fellows. a man as nature made him, and this man is myself:' Rousseau We propose to show our fellow beer drinker a natliral beer. A beer without additives or chemical preservatives. For a natural Rhein gold taste you just can't find in other ~eers. Natural Rheingold\~ We know how you feel about beer.

Pagc8 CONCORDJENSTS, Friday, May 4,. 1913 SPEND 270 DJ:\VS ON A CJ:\MPUS LIKE NO OTHER IN THE WORLD= YOUR JUNIOR YEAR IN NEW YORK ... J:\T NEW VORl~ UNI\IERSIT\! Music, art, poetry, theater, museums, lib~aries, archives, Wall Street, the United - Nations, nationality neighb,orhoods, Greenwich Village, film and television studios- New Yc;nk City is an unmatched extension .of the educational experience at New York University. Junior Year in New York study is available at NYU's Washington Square Center, in Arts and Science, Business and Public Administration, and Education. For detailed information, clip the coupon and mail today. A sample of New York Actors Playhouse, Seventh Avenue between Grove and Barrow Streets Amato Opera Tlieater, Bowery and Second Street Bill Baird Puppet Theater, Barrow Street near Bedford Street Eighth Street Playhouse, ~2 West Eighth Street between Fifth Avenue and Avenue of the Americas Elgin, Eighth Avenue, near 17th Street. Film festivals and old favorites Henry Street Settlement Playhouse, Grand Street Judson Memorial Church, Washington Square South. Avant garde art, poetry, and dance Mercer Arts Center, Mercer Street, between 3rd and Bleecker Streets. Theaters named for Lorraine Hans· berry, Bernard Shaw, Oscar Wilde, Bertold Brecht, and Sean O'Casey. The Blue Room Cabaret has jazz Provincetown Playhouse, MacDougal Street between 3rd & 4th Streets. Home of Ruffino Opera Public Theater, Lafayette Street near Astor Place. Birthplace of Hair; home of New York Shakespeare Festival; also has film anthology St. Mark's-in-the•Bowery, Second Avenue at 10th Street. Poetry, drama; and music in church St. Mark's Playhouse, Second Avenue between 1Oth and 11th Streets Sheridan Square Playhouse, Seventh Avenue near Grove Street Theater De Lys, Christo- pher Street near Hudson Street Village Gate, corner of Bleecker and Thompson Streets Washington. Square Methodist. Church, West Fourth Street between Washington Square and Avenue of the Americas. Music, dance, drama, film Dauber and Pine Bookshop, Fifth Avenue near 13th Street. From plain and used books to rare and old books Eighth Street Bookshop, • West Eighth Street. Schol- arly, difficult-to-find books, extensive paperback col- !action Orienlalia, Fourth Avenue near 1Oth. Street. Eastern thought Little Italy:· Bounded roughly by Houston and Canal Streets, the Bowery and Lafayette Stree,t. Salamis and warm fresh bread; fresh fruit and vega- tables and seafood. The festivals of San Antonio in the late spring and San Genaro in the early fall. Soho: the area south of Houston Street where a colony of artists lives and works in the spacious lofts. There are half a dozen galleries. here, too. Federal Hall Museum, corner Wall and Nassau Streets. Site of many historic colonial events- Washington's inauguration, Peter Zenger Trial, etc. South Street. Seaport, Fulton Street and Annex on Pier 16 facing John Street. Museum plus live events such as folk dancing and singing of sea chanteys Fulton Street Fish Market, Fulton and South Streets. Starts at 4 a.m. Chinatown: The Bowery, Mulberry and Canal Streets enclose the liny enclave. The Chinese Museum is at 7 Mott Street. The Eastern States Buddhist Temple is at 64 Mott Street. The Chinese New Year is cele- brated the first day of the new moon between January 21 and .February 19 Financial District: between the Battery and Fulton Street and between Pearl and Greenwich Streets. The New York Stock Exchange, the American Stock Ex- change, the Commodity Ex· changes, the large insur- ance companies and the head_ offices of the leading banks of the U.S. are hera. The Federal Reserve lo· cated here keeps the gold reserves of various coun- tries of the world in vaults built into the rock which is Manhattan Island - Pie~pont Morgan Ubrary, 36th Street, corner of Madi- Carnegie Hall, 154 West son Avenue. Rare books 57th Street. Concerts, andc:hanging exhipits of Metropolitan M~Jseum of recitals, and per,for,mances art are splendidly displayed Art, Fifth Avenue between in this former homesite SOthand 84th Streets C::eili Irish Festival of Song fashioned like an elegant Museum of the City ~ and Dance, Cathedral High Italian palazzo School, 560 Lexington Broadway: The central New York, Fifth Avenue at Avenue, 50th ·to 51st Streets theater district is located .in 104th Street New York City Center, 131 midtown along the streets National Academy of De· sign, :Fifth Avenu~ between West 55th Street. Dance that run East and West 89th and 90th Streets and music recitais through Times Square Solomon R·. Guggenheim American Institute of CPA's, Madisol'! Square Garden Museum, Fifth Avenue be- 666 Fifth Avenue, Room. and The Felt Forum, be- tween 88th and 89th 403. Library offers books on tween 32nd and 33 Streets Streets. The building itself a accounting, taxation and and Seventh and Eighth work of art by Frank Floyd ra~e books on accounting Avenues. Concerts, cir- Wright cuses, rallys, sports, and The 'broadcasting network other mass events. Home Whitney Museum ~~ libraries. By appdintment. of the New York Knicker- American Art, Madison Af,3C at 1926 Broadway,near beckers and the New York Avenue at 75th Street. 64th; CBS at 524 W. 57th Rangers Exhibits of American..art- Street; and NBC at 30 ists who are still living Rockefeller Plaza The United Nations, First Lincoln Center, Broadway Don11ell Library, 53rd St1eet, Avenue between 42nd and. and Amsterdam Avenue, between Fifth Avenue and 47th Streets between 62nd Street and Avenue of the Americas: Central Park, 59th Street to 66th Street. Hmne of the flloted for books on the 110th Street between Fifth New York Philharmonic thea1er, has a regular Avenue and Central Park orchestra, the New York schedule of films, c<mcerts West City Ballet, the Metropolitan and rectures Martha Graham Sc.hool of Opera, and the New York Hargail Music Press, 28 Contemporary Dance, 63rd City Opera Street near Second Avenue West 38th Street. Recorders American Museum of Nat• and recorder music their Council for Inter-American ural History, Central Park sJ>ecially- the onlr music Relations, Park Avenue a1 West, 77th Street to 81st sll op of its kind in the 68th Street. Exhibits, Street. Nearly twelve acres country music of exhibits MLJsellm of Contemporary El Museo del Barrio, Com· The Cloisters, Fort T cyon Crafts. West 53rd Street, munity School, District Four, Park, west of Broadway between Fifth Avenue and 206 E.116th Street near 19eth Street. Recrea- Avenue of the Americas French Institute, 60th tion of the medieval world Museum of Early American Street near Madison. Lee- Hispanic Society of-Amer- Folk ~rts, West 53rd Street tures, movies, library- ica, Broadway between between Fifth Avenue and English and French 15Sth Street and 156th Avenue of the Americas Frick Collection, 70th Street. Goya's \Duchess of. Museum of Modern Art, Street at Fifth Avenue. Alba,\ works by El Greco, Velasquez, ;?:ubarian and West 53rd Street, between Baronial mansion of an·~· Ribera Fifth Avenue and Avenue American industrialist, of the Americas. Galleries, housing a private art col- Museum of the American I Indian, Broadway and t55th gardens, fountains-1he. lection, recitals very latest art, plus hjstoric Goethe House, Fifth Avenue Stte~t. Largest museum In films the world devoted to the between 82nd and 83rd North AmeriGah Indians Museum of Primitive ~rt, Streets. Run by the Federal 54th Street between Fifth Republic of Germany; fea- - Riverside Museum, 310 Avenue and Avenue of the tures exhibits, displays and Riverside DriVfil. Features Americas lectures Tibetan and Oriental art New York Cultural Center. Jewish Museum, Fifth Ave- New York Historical So- 2 Columbus Circle. Variety nue at the corner of 92nd ciety, Central Park West at of exhibits and events Street 77th Street I (

PQge;8 CONCORD!ENSIS, Friday, May4; 19173' ;------------~----~~~~~~~--~~~~------ . ' (. /, '' . SPEND 270 DWS ON A C~MPUS liKE NO OTHER IN THE WORlD: VOUR.JUNIORVEAR IN NEW YORK ... ~T NEW YORK UNI\lERSIW Music, art, poetry, theater, museums, libraries, archives; Wall Street, t!te United .Nations, nationality neighb.orhoods, Greenwich Village; film and television studios- New York City is ali unmatched extension of the eduCational experience a~ New York University. Junior Year in New York study is available at NYU's Washington Square Center, in Arts and Science, Business and Pu!;llic Administration, and Education. For detailed information, clip the coupon and mail today. A s<;Jmple of New York. Actors Playhouse; Seventh Avenue between Grove and Barrow Streets Amatp Opera Tlieater, Bowery and Second Street Bill Baird Puppet Theater, Barrow Street near Bedford Street Eighth Street Playhouse, 32 West Eighth Street between Fifth Avenue and Avenue of the Americas Elgin, Eighth Avenue, near 17th Street. Film festivals and old favorites Henry Str(tet Settlement Playhouse, Grand St~eet Judson Memorial Church, Washington Square South. Avant garde art, poetry, and dance Mercer Arts Center, Mercer Street, between 3J'd and Bleecker Streets. Theaters named for Lorraine Hans- berry, Bernard Shaw, Oscar Wilde, Bertold Brecht, and Sean O'Casey. The Blue Room Cabaret has jazz Provincet()Wtl Playhouse, MacDougal Street between 3rd & 4th Streets. Home of Ruffino Ope.ra Public Theater, lafayette Street near Ast()r Place. Birt!lplace ·of Hair; home o.f. Ne.w York 'Shakespeare Festival; alsohas film anthology St. Mark's-in-the\Bowery Second Awnue at 10th Street. Poetry, drama,. and music in church St. Mark's Playhouse; Second Avenue between i Oth and 11th Streets Sheridan Square Playhouse, Seventh Avenue near Grove Str~et Theater De Lys, Christo• pher Street near Hudson Street Village Gate, corrier of Bleecker and Thompson Stree's Washington Squate Methodist _Church, West Fourth Street between Washington Square and Avenue of the Americas. Music, c!ance, drama, film Dauber and Pine Bo()kshop, Fifth Avenue near 13th Street. From plain and used books to rare and old books Eighth Street Bookshop, • West Eighth Street. Schol- arly, dilfic!llt-to-find books, extensive paperbacl1 col- lection Orientalia, Fourth Avenue near 10th. Street. Eastern thought Little Italy:· Bounded roughly by Houston and Canal Streets, the'Bowery and Lafayette Stree_t. Salamis and warm fresh breadi fresh frult and vege- tables and seafoo'Q, The festivals of San An\onio in the late spring and San Genaro in the early fall. Sqho: The area south of Houston $tree~ where a colony of artists .Jives and works in the spacious lofts. There are half a dozen galleries here, too. Federal Hall Museum, comer Wall and Nassau Streets. Sit<!. .of many historic colonial events- Washington's inauguration, Peter Zenger Trial, etc. · South Street Seaport, Fulton Street and Annex on Pier 16 facing John Street. Museum plus live events such as folk dancing and singing of sea chanteys Fu it on Street .Fish Market; Fulton and South Streets. Starts at 4' a,m. Chinatown: l'he Bowery, Mulberry and Canal Streets enclose the...tiny enclave. The Chinese Museum is at 7 Mott Street. The Eastern states Buddhist Temple is at 64 Mott Street. The Chinese New Year is cele- brated the first day of the new moon between Janu€lry 21 and February 19 Fi\ancial District: between the Battery and Fulton Street and between Peari and Greenwich Streets. The New York Stock Exchange, the American StocK Ex- change, the Commodity Ex- changes, the large insur- ance companies and the head~ offices of the leading banks of the U.S. are herE!. The Federal Reserve lo- cated here kE!eps the gold reserves of various coun- tries of the world in vaults built into the rock which is Manhattan Island CarnegieHa11,1.54 West 57th Street. Concerts, re()itals, and pi:lrformanc;es Celli Irish Festival of Song and Dance,. Cathedral High School, 560 Lexing.on Avenue, 50th, to 51st Streets New York City Center, 131 West 55th Street. Dance and music recitais American Institute of CPA's; 6S& Fifth Avenue, Room 403. Library of1er.s books on accounting, taxation. and ran;! books on accounting The broadca$ling network libraries. By appointment. ABC at 1;~26 Broadway near Ei4th; CBS at 524 W. 57th Street; and NBC at 30 Rockefeller Plaza Donnell library, 53rd Str-eet, between Fj_fth Avenue and Avenue of the Americas. Noted for books ·on the theater, has a regular schedule of films, c;:oncerts and lectures Hargail Music Press, 28 West 38th Street. Recorders and recorder music their specialty~ the only music shop of its kind in the country Museum of Contemporary Crafts. West 53rd Street, between .fifth .Avenue and Avenue of the Americas Museum of Early American Folk Arts, West 53rd Street between Fifth Avenu~ and Avenl$e of the Americas Museum .of Modern A~t. West 53rd Street, between Fifth Avenue and Avenue of the Americas. Galleries, gardens, fountains~ the. very latest art, plus hjstoric films Museum of Primitive Art, 54th Street betwE!en Fifth Avenue and Avenue of the Americas New York Cultural Center, 2: Columbus Circle. Variety of exhibits and events · Pie~pont'Morgan Library, 36th StrElet, corner olMadl\' son Avenue, Rare books and changh)g exnibitli! of art are spiendidly dh;~played In, this former homesite fashioned like an elegant Italian palazzo Br9adway:. the cehtrar theater district is located in midtown along the streets tha,t run East and West' through Times Square Madis.on Square Garde!l and The felt FOrum, be· '.tween 32nd an(! 33 Streets and Seventh and Eighth Avenues. Concerts, cir- cuses, .ra.irys, sports, and other mass events. Horne of. the New York Knicker- bockers anc! the New York Rangers · the United Nations, First Avenue between 42nd anct~ 47th Streets Central Park, 59th Str-eet to 110th Street between Fifth Avenue ~nd Central Park West Martha Graham School of Contemporary Dance, 63rd Street near Second Avenue Council for Inter-American Re!atio\s Park Avenue at 68th Street. Exhibits, music El Museo del Barrio, Com- munity School, District Four, 206 E.116th Street French Institute, 60th Street neat Madison. Lec- tures, movies, library- English and French Frick Collection, 70th Street .at Fifth Avenue. Baronial mansion of an''· Amer.ican industrialist, housing a private art col- lection, re'citals . Goethe House, Pifth Avenue between 82nd and 83rtl Streets. Run by the Federal Republic of Germany; fea-- tutes exhibits, displays and lectures jewish Museum, Fifth Ave• nue at the corner of 92nd Street l't'Jetropolitan Museum of Art; Fllth Avenue b¢twe!')n BO.th and s4th Streets iMtls~um of the Ci1y fit' New. York, Fifth Avenue at 104.b Street National Acad¢my of ,De- sign, Fifth Avenue between 8.9th and 90th Streets SQIOJ110R ft Quggenheim M1.1s~~m •. Fifth Avenue .pe, twe1en- B&'th and 89th Str.eet~. The cui !ding itself a work of a~t by Frank Floyd Wright Whitney Muse!lm ~t Americ:lltl Art, MQdison ~venue at 75th Street. E;xhibits of Americanc.J:ltt- ists Who are still living ~ LincOI!l' Center,,.Broadway and~Arnsterdarn Avenue, between ~nd Street and 66th Street. Htmle of the New YQ'rk f'hilh~trmonig orchestra, the New York City Bariet, the Metropolitan Opera, and the New York City Opera Americ~rn Museum of Nat. ~ural History, Central Park West. 7Tth Street to S,tst Street ... t\fearly twelve acres of exhibits The Cloisters, Fort Tryon Pa*, west of· Broadway near 190th Str-eet, Recrea- tion of the medieval wor.ld Hispanic So<:iety of-Amer- ica, Broadway between l55th Street and 156th Street. Goya's \Duche~s of Alba,\ wo.~ks by El Greco, Velasquez, Zuharian and Ribera .Museum,oittae American Indian, Broadway and 155th Stree't. Largest museum In the world devoted to the North A:merican Indians Riverside Museum, 310 Riverside btiv~. Fea\IJres Tibetan and Orienta-l art New York Historical So- ciety; .Central Park West at 77th Street ( I I f (

of at a t} ' I founded at ,lJnion c_ollege in 1871 · · ~· Recyde This Paper al., ~ '~. Vol. 1:02. No. 46 Wed~e~da,y, May 9. 1973. 20 cents Dance Workshop Spring Movements '73 The Union College Modern Dance Workshop will present \Spring Movements '73\ on May 17-19, at 8:00 P.M. in Nott Memorial Theater. Works choreographed to the music of Satie. Berio. and Smiley will be presented, as well as George Crumb~s \Ancient Voices of Children\ and \Black Angels.\ \Ancient Voices of Children\is a cycle of songs on texts by th.e Spanish poet. Garcia Lorca. The creative impulse for the music and dance is the closing lines of the poetry: \And I will go very far. Farther than those hills. Farther than the seas, Close to the stars. To ask Christ the Lord To give me back My ancient soul of a child.\ \Black Angels (Thirteen Images from the Dark Land)\ was conceived by Crumb as a kind of parable on our troubled contemporary world. The underlying structure of Black Angels is a huge archlike design which is suspended from the three \Threnody\ pieces. The work portrays a voyage of the soul. The three stages of this voyage are Departure (fall from grace). Absence (spiritual annihilation). and Return (redemption). The Modern Dance Workshop is composed of eight men (Dave Annis, Jeff Bailey, Stu Baker: Larry Caban. John Collins, Eric Mendlesohn. Michael Sherer, and Ricardo Smith), and eight women (Vickie Bartell. Amy Chodos. Sharon Fiscus. Hope Karlin, Terrell Keeler. Susan Lasker, Claudia Schlosberg, and Dawn Walworth). They will be presenting choreography done by three of the adjunct dance faculty, Pat Castelli, Gail. George, and Helga Prichard. A solo danced by Helga Prichard was choreographed by Carl George for her. Also Gail George. and Carolyn Deitering, a guest Michael Sherer of th~ Modern Dance Workshop: Aid Bill Pas.sed by Bl tL TALIS A possible crisis of federal student aid to college students was averted when President '\ixPn o;igned into law an $X72 million bill. prm iding aid for the coming college year. The hill was 'igned. on \pril 29th. after a 'urprise mme hy Congress. lkcau-.L' of fears of e'<ccutiw impoundment. the Student Aid Bill \\a~ attached to another hill tk,igned to finance many urgent go\ ernmcnt commitments in the clno;inc \.\ eek<. of the fiscal vear. H~ t~teking this section -onto another hill. the probability of t.:\ecuti\e impoundment was, reduced. The amount of aid students would have been able to receive next vear would have been in doubt. if the Administration's propl)sal had been instituted. That program called for the cancellation of low interest loans (National Direct Student Loan) and grants for needy students (Economic Opportunity Grant). li1 place of these programs would ha\'C been instituted a new • program. the Hasic Opportunity Grunt. which ideally would have provided aid to every needy student. Because of a format that was much hroader than existing programli. BOG would have funded proprit.:tary institutions in audition to the presently funded college' and universities. Congrt.:'~ t.:arlit.:r had rejected the '\ i \ n n p r o r o sa I fo r t h c tL·rmination of '\DSI. and lOG and the transfer of those fund:-. into his nc\\o program. Congre-., · surprise move was ((J tully lund fO(i and '\DSI.. a:- well as establishing the \drnini:-.tration\ program. BOG. \\ith a token grant of $122 million. The Administration had asked for $622 million for BOG. The programs also funded are $270 million for the Work.Study Program. which pays students for part-time campus work, $270 million for NDSL and $210 million for EOG. Mr. Joseph T. Maras. Director of Student Aid at Union College. had warned of possible implications of Pl'esident Nixon's proposal. He said of Congress' action. \This is a victorv that resulted from a direct expression of student. family. and · citizen concerns.\ performer with the group, will present. an improvizational dance creating their o-wn accorn pa:niment. An exhibit ·of dance photogr-aphy done this year hy Stu Baker as an independent study will be in the foyer of the theater. Tickets for the performances are free fm all Union students. faculty. and staff. and are available now at the Nott Memorial box office. T!Bis is the only issue of CONCORDIENSIS that will appear this weeJL It is our hope tllat with this devious maneuver we have cleared up · our financial difficulties and we mte11d to return to our · nm1111al publishing schedule of two issues per week again n~~t \\'eek... The Staff. Ihe Union College Social Committee is proud to present for Spring Weekend: Saturday, May 12th (for FREE witJt Union /D) a DANCE in . tfze Gym, featuring SUNN a( 8:30. Sunday, May 13th, a CONCERT, featuring country music with the EARL SCRUGGS REVIEW! Tickets are available in Student Activities: $2.50 for Union Students and $3.50for others. .Re-view :· .Lloyd Disappointing by DAN MILEY Union College parents were treated to an unexpected dose wf high-volume jazz Saturday night as the Charles Lloyd Quartet played· 'in Memorial Chapel. Originally •. ,Thelonius Monk was contracted to play the date, but illness forced him to cancel. The Social Committee was forced to choose between Charles Lloyd and no co-ncert. and on the basis of Lloyd's good recorded work. they signed him. Lloyd has recently changed his musical focus to the field of improvisational · jazz, and has assembled a new quartet of young musicians. Black Bird. on electric guitar, was the Weak link in the band. His Hendrix routines, especially playing the guitar with his teeth did not blend well with . - CONC()RDY PHOTO CONTEST For th <Jse unfortunate readers who missed .the first announcement, a quick review: <:oncordy is sponsoring a photo contest. Details tnay be found in the Friday. Ma:y 4 issue of Concordiensis or in the Student Activities Office (strategically located near Concor(Jfs box). For those Who did catch the initial set of rules, a few clarificati<>ns and additions:. I. Union faculty, as well as students, a.re eligible. 2. Dead.line: 4:00 P.M., Friday, May 25. 3. First prize: publication in Concordy Second priLe: publication m Concordy Third prize: publication m Concordy, etc. Questions may be directed (gently) to Bill Erichson at 346-9147. Arthur 0. Eve will speak on \The De-Jiumanitation of Our Political Process\ on Wednesday. May 9th at 8:00 p.m. in Butterfield 204 (the amphitheatre in the fl} rmer ChellJ Hldg. of the Science and Engineering Comr>lex ). New York State 1\ssemhlvman Arthur 0. Eve of Huffalo has heen a leading critic of Gover11or Roekete·ller on Attica m'td the di'Ug comrol plan. This will ~e the 197.3 Brackett Lecture. the music. and his playing was painful!y loud. The bass player, however, was consistently good. and laid <town a diversified !'- solid musical foundation. LkJ ... demonstrated good technique. -particularly at the beginning of the second· set, on flute and sax. IJnfortunately. the ear- shattering volume of the music detracted from the band's efforts. Lloyd was informed before the show that he was playing for a Parents' Weekend crowd, and he promised to keep the level of the music down. However, volume reigned. in spite of constant entreaties by the Social Committee. and despite a rapklly dwindling audience. During intermission. Lloya declared that, as an artist, he was only concerned with his music. and not the audience. After the intermission, with only a small audience of masochists and jazz enthusiasts remammg. volume levels hit a new high. and the band sounded much tighter. They started the set with a long, blues- influenced number that featured some fine improvising on lead guitar. The main weakness of the Quartet, volume aside, was the youthfl,llness and inexperience of Lloyd's backup. The jazz format requires a great degree of cohesion among the musicians and this was obviously lacking, most noticeably in the lead guitarist. However, with more experience and with a short course in room acoustics. the Quartet should improve greatly. Sunday afternoon. the Union College Jazz Workshop played an outdoor concert from the steps of Schaffer Library. The regular workshop. with Phil Gruppuso on piano, Chuck Fischer playing sax. Vincent Foster on Congas. Mike Van Ha.tten on Trombone, and Eric Griffin on bass was supplemented by other musicians, . and the affair turned into a jam session. The band played a more traditional set than was heard the night before, and demonstrated a tightness not usually seen in a college band. It was a tribute to their tightness that there were no standouts, rather. the band was consistently good. Last Thursday night a group q/ approximately fifiy Union Students gathered and paraded around campus carrying torches and awakening the inhabitants of several dormitories. There is some £'onfusion as to the purpose of the manuever; but it appears that the original idea was a memorial to Kent State. The action was loosely organized and some residents Q( West. College were under the impression that the Klan had sprung up in St:henec:tady while some residents in -Richmond were just plain scared.

-_---._ ... __ ... - . .. '' I founded ai ,Union c_ollege in 1877 ·- l' Re~yde This Paper~. ' ~ Vol. 102. No. 46 .. Wednesday, May 9.1973 · 20eents Dan·ce ·Workshop Spring Movements '73 The Union College Modern Dance Workshop will present \Spring Movements '73\ on May 17-19~ at 8:00 P.M. in Nott Memorial Theate.r. Works choreographed tG the music of Satie. Berio, and Smiley will be presented, as well as George Crumb's \Ancient Voices of Children\ and ''Black Angels.\ \Anc-ient Vokes of Children \is a cycle of songs on texts by the .Spanish pOet. Garcia Lorca. The creative impulse for the music and dance is the closing lines of the poetry: \And I will go very far, Farther than those hiJis, Farther than the seas, Close to the stars, To ask Christ the Lord To give me back My ancient soul of a child.\ . \Black Angels (Thirteen Images from the Darl< Land)\ was conceived by Crumb as a kind of parable on our troubled conten'lp.orary world. The underlying structure of Black Angels is a huge archlike design which is suspended from the three \Threnody\ pieces. The work portrays a voyage of the soul. ihe three stages of this voyage an; Departme (fall from grace), Absence (spiritual annihilation), and Return {redemption). ihe Modern Dance Workshop is composed of eight me.n (Dave Annis. Jeff Bailey, Stu Ba'ker: LliHY Caban, John Collins, Eric Mendlesohn, Michael Sherer, and Ricardo Smith), and eight women {Vickie Bartell. Amy Chodos, Sharon Fiscus, Hope Karlin, Terrell Keeler. Susan Lasker, Claudia Schlosberg, and Dawn Walworth). They will be presenting choreography done by three of the adjunct dance faculty, Pat Castelli. Gail George. and Helga Prichard. A solo danced by Helga Pri-chard Was choreographed by Carl George for her. Also Gail George. and Carolyn Deitering, a · guest Michael Sherer of th~ Modern lJqnce Workshop: Aid Bill Pas.sed by BILL TALIS A possible crisis of federal student aid to college students w;is aVerted when President \:ixon 'ii,!ned into law an $R72 million hill. ptmiding aid for tht• coliling college year. The hill was -igned . on April 29th. after a 'urprise move hy Congress. lkcau'e of fears of executiw impoundment. the Student Aid Bill \\as attached to another bill deo;igncd to finance many urgent g1nernment cnmmitinents in the cfo..,ing \Vceb of the fis~o:al year. Hy tacking this sectior'l onto another hilL the probability of e'Xecuti\e impoundment was , reduced. The amount of aid students would have been able to receive next \'ear would have been in dOLiht · if the Administration's pmpt)S~ll had been instituted. That program called for the cancellation of low interest loans (National Direc.t Student Loan) nnd grants for needy students (Economic Opportunity Grant). In place of these programs would hm·c been · instituted a new \ program. the Hasic Opportunity Grant. which ideally woUld have provided aid to every needy student. Because of a f()rmat that was much broader than existing programs. HOG would have funded proprit·tary institutions in addition to the prc!'>cntly funded college!'> and universities. Congre..,~ earlier had rejected the '\i\.on proposal for the tcrrninirtion ol :\DSI. and lOG and the transfer of those fund~ into hi., ne\\ program. Congre..,:-.' ..,urprise move was t(i lull\ lund I O(i and :\DSL a~ wcit a~ establishing the \dmini~tration's program. BOG. with a token grant of $122 million. The Administration had asked for $622 million for BOG. The programs also funded are S270 million for the Work. Study J>rogram. \Yhich pays students for part-time campus work. $270 millkm for NhSL and $210 million for EOG. Mr. Jos~;ph T. Maras. Director of Student Aid at Union College. had warned of possible implications of President Nixon's .proposal. He said of Congress' action, .. This is a victorv that resulted from a direct expression of student. family. ~nd · citizen concerns.\ pe.rforme.r with the group, will present. an im.provizational dance creating their o-wn accompaniment. An exhibit of dance photography done this year by Stu Baker as an -independent study will be in the foyer of the theater. Ti-ckets for the performances aue free fo.r all Union students, faculty. and staff. and are avai:lable now a.t the N ott Memorial box .office. This is the only issue of CONCORDIEl'lSIS that will appear this week. It is our hope that with this devious maneuver we have cleared up · our financial difficulties and we intend t4> return to our · normal publishing schedule (lf two issues per week again next .week •.. The Staff. The Union College Social Committee is proud to present for Spring Weekend: Saturday, May 12th (for FREE with Union /D) a DANCE in _ tfze Gym, featuring SUNN a( 8:30. Sunday, May 13th, a CONCERT, fe(lturing country music with the EARL SCRUGGS REVIEW! Tickets are available in Student Activities: $2.50for Union Students and $3.50.for others. .Review:· .Lloyd Disappointing by DAN MILEY Union · College parents were treated' to an unexpected dose'iitlf high-volume jazz Saturday night as the Charles Lloyd Quartet played• in Memorial Chapel. Originally, ,Thelonius Monk was contracted to play the date, but illness forced him to cancel. The Social Com:mittee was forced to choose between Charles Lloyd and nQ concert, and on the basis of Lloyd's good recorded work, they signed him. Lloyd has recently changed his musical focus to the field of improvisational · jazz. and · has assembled a new quartet of young musicians. Black Bird, on electric guitar. was the weak link in the band. His Hendrix routines, especially playing the guitar with his teeth. did not blend well with . - CONCORDY PHOTO CONTEST. For those unfortunate readers who missed .the first announcement, a quick review: Con cordy is sponsoring a photo contest. Details may be found in the Eriday, May 4 issue of Concordiensis · or in the Student Activities Office · (strategically_ located near Concordy's box). For those who did catch the initial set of rules, a few ·clarifications and additions: I. Union faculty, as well as students, are eligible. 2. Deadline: 4:00 P.M., Friday, May 25. 3. First prize: publication in Concordy · • Second priLe: publication m Concordy Third prize: publication m Concordy, etc. Questions may be directed {gently) to Bill Erichson at 346-9147. Arthur O. Eve will speak on \The De-HumaniF.at.ion of Our Political Process\ on Wednesday. May 9th at K:OO p.m. in Butterfield 204 (the amphitheatre in the former Chen;~ Hldg. of the Science and Engineering Complex). New York State Asscmblvman Arthur 0. Eve of Buffalo hits heen a leading critic of Gtwcrnor Rockeleller on Attica and the drug control plan. This will be the 1973 Hrackett l.ccture. the music. and his playing was painfully loud. The bass player, however, was consistently good. and laid 4P.wn a diversified r solid musical foundation. Lk J u demonstrated good technique, ·particularly ai the begiiming of the second· set, on flute and sax. Unfortunately. the ear- shattering volume of the music detracted fr.om the band's efforts. Lloyd was informed before the show that he was playing for a Patents' Weekend crowd, and he promised to keep the level of the music down. However, volume reigned. in spite of constant entreaties by the Social Committee. and despite a rapidly dwindling audience. During intermission, Lloytl declared that, as an artist, he was only concerned with his music. and not the audience. After the intermission, with only a small audience of masochists and jazz enthusiasts remammg, volume levels hit a new high, and the band sounded much tighter. They started the set with a long, blues- influenced number that featured some fine improvising on lead guitar. The main weakness of the Quartet, volume aside, was the youthfulness and inexperience of Lloyd's backup. The jazz format requires a great degree of cohesion among the musicians and this was obviously lacking, most noticeably in the lead guitarist. However, with more experience and with a shor~ course in room acoustics, the Qua-rtet should improve greatly. Sunday afternoon, the Union College Jazz Workshop played an outdoor concert from the- steps of Schaffer Library. The regular workshop, with Phil Gruppuso on piano, Chuck Fischer playing sax, Vincent Foster on Congas, Mike Van Hatten on Trombone, and Eric Griffin on bass was supplemented by other musicians, . and the affair turned into a jam session. The band played a more traditional set than was heard the night before, and demonstrated a tightness not usually seen in a college band. It was a tribute to their tightness that thete were no standouts, rather, the band was consiste.ntly good. Last Thursday night a group of approximately fljiy Union Students gathered and paraded around campus carrying torches and awakening the inhabitants of several dormitories. There is some confusion as to the - purpose of the manuever, but it appears that the original idea was a memorial to Kent State. The action was loosely organized and some residents of West. College were under the impression that the Klan had sprung up .in Schenec·tady while some residents in ·Richmond were just plain scared.

,·' CONCORDIENSIS, WedneJd&aY~ M(Jy 9. 1973 lo the Editor: We would like to enco~rage those individuals wh9 fail to return facemaskf! to the gym after intramural softball ·games to rtd themselves of this habit \efote any more unprotected catchers suffer broken noses. Mile Van Hatten Die~ Wood Tom Rembetski Kevin Roberto Mike Willis .John Donohue To Union st.tdents and their parents: The Charles Lloyd Quartet concert, held last Saturday, was so upsetting to so many people that.~ feel it necessary to explain how it happened that this act came to pla,y for Parents' ~eekend. If you didn't see the cop¢ert. you might have heart it, becatfSe _it was .extremely loud. And :few 1 will deny that fhe music ,prs.tented wa.s absolutely ,> inappropriate .for a Parents' Weekend .concert. T~e musicianship -of the Quartet is not. the issue here ~ ~. ,'tlle 'Feason for their being booked . •:' \: is~ 1\;s ,most ··~tnow. TheJonious to impress upon the group that this would not be their typical audience. They agreed to play two sets. keeping the ·first mellower, then performing .. uninhibited\ in the second for those who wanted to stay. Anyone who was there will attest that the first set was anything but mellow. with ~be result that the greater part· of the ·audience walked out. quite disp[eased. For the Committee's sake, we would Ji~e to make several points clear: we had volume ~ontrol over only two mikes, for lloyd's flute and sax. the rest being controlled by the group from the stage; we tried repeatedly during the first set to ask them to lower the vofume, in vain; we argued during intermission over the accousticai qualities of the Chapel, as well as the sensi.bilities of. the audience, which yielded nothing except the conviction of one in the group that the volume was too low (and who did indeed turn up during the second set). \; ..• · :v ·,. < Mgpk. a ja~z) pianist of some s_tai1ire •. was originally contracted fg_P,lay at the Chapel on May .S. W~r;e.c~ived word a week and two days before :~the .concert that Mo1,1k was sick.and had to cancel. Few performer~ will.accept dates on so. little · notice; so the Social C~mmittee had to make a quick de'eisio.n whether or no.t to book So .the combination ofall these factors, many out of the control of the Social Committee. -reSU'lted in last Saturday's concert. It was not our intention' to disquiet the parents and students who -did attend wit·h offensive music. What it comes down .to ·is that· when Monk cancelled, we had to take a gamble on what we were offered. We took it. and lost. . .::· ,_ ·.i ... Lloyd's Quartet, who coul<l- fit Union into .their- tour schedule. . ':if .~,; ~- - W:e knew the group to be an · illnov.ative · J~d refined jazz act .• ' consisting q.{ipian<>, stand up bass, Sincerely, (Social Comm.) Michael Milson stage manager Peggy Miller ·chairman Lois Brustman Jill Manning Barb Sherman Mark Young ' \· ::l rf ~~ · :- and . -dr1:1ms, ~~with · t.loyd on sa.x , · ,';and flute. WiiJe .somewhat avant- : ·g_~;rg.e, theit~'tnusie as·~e and our ;. ··~~pt .kll~1!~·iL 00 u~d. easi~y be· ,r _apJ¥.ectate<.f,'ffiY ar- :older audience. .; · ·-~ JJi!j;t. ·re~p~ly, . ·though, the ,, ~rsonel,. ;sibstrtimentation. · and To The Editor: ,, On Thursday night,;,May 3, the surprised inhabitants of West College were rudely disturbed from their sleep and the:it studies by the sound of a beating drum, overall mu&icat.-ditectio'n of the .. Quarih ti~_§fgone. ihrough changes · (n~t. no,·Q.~J:t we talked to could _ · haV.~, pr~jcted, pla:cing them :· · ITIU:~SaiiY.. some:where betwe.en t·he \'\ .; , Mali'~v4slrr.iu· Orchest-ra and M~iles .,... lJ:~iv!s. · O.ttr · surpriSe : I'm sure ~ ' \'~·~ I'' ' .. and by the cries of an assembly .of student protesters which had formed by the flagpole· wall. These ~·concerned students\ marched before West in a torchlight .parade, to the chant of \Save America.\ breaking their chant·· with an oc.casional obscenity. When we, the , . !liJf;passet'fl 'the, parents\ as the ·••: .,gr-oup walkedinwhh'their electric .·.~· guitars. phtgged in, -~nd began to .P!a.y W:,bj:lt ..• ··to most pare.nts sounded like a· bad -imitation of a low·41ying_..jl!mbo jet. ·. Realizing the situation, we tried ~' '' ' ,, -~ .' .~:~ .. ·.• • I ·~~ . .·to~dect ai Union C~llegein 1877 ... ·-· ·- ... ~ / .. liiil~;~in~Chi~f.· .. : ....... : .. ~ ................................... AI Reisch ·~l.~aging Editors ............................... : ..... Rita Morandi Dave Strom 'News Editors ................. , ....................... Phyllis Edelman Marty Sherman Features Editor.: ............................ : ......... John Perlstein Investigations and Analysis .......................... Dof!. ·Krone Associate Editor ....................................... Chuck Sa batt National Advertising\ ............................ : ........ Steve Kelly, · Sports Editor .....••...............•... Bart Mercer Subscriptions ................. :.::: ............ : ...... Mike .Bernstein Business Manager ..................... ; .... :~ ...... Chris'O\Connor . Photo .'Editors ....•............. , ....... Les Kernan Oftlce·Siaff Phil Alcabes Doug Carpenter Gaf1' Lovett · lllyria Puharich Dan Rothblum Jeff Weilburg Bill Erichson · Robin Waring Bill West Colicordiellllis is published every Tuesday and Friday during the school year except during examination and vacation periods by the stud.ent body of Union College, .. ·schenectady, N.Y. National Advertising Representative: ·National Educational Advertising Service, Inc., NYC. Editorial office, Old Gym Hall, Union College. P'ublication office, The Jewish World Publications, 771 ·state Street, Schenectady, New York, 12307 (346-2356}. Entered in the Schenectady post \office as Second Class Mail Matter. Subscription .. rate: 20 cents a copy, 8 dollars a year delivered anywhere in the United States. . Deadline for all copy, whiCh must be TYPED AND DOUBLE SPACED, is 7 .p.m. on Monday and Thursday at the Concordiensis office, located in Stoller Hall above Old Chapel. The office phone number is 370-6155, but the office is in use oniy on Monday and Thursday nights. FOR ALL EDITORiAL MA TIERS CALL THE EDiTOR-IN-CHIEF AT 346•9396; FOR INFORMATION CALL MRS. MARRA IN THE' StUDENT ACTIVITIES ()f'FICE AT 370-6.118. unfortunates Jjv,i'ng in 'West. attempted tP eng~,tge these r-a[).b!e i.n discussion. to deterl)li!le tl'aeir grievance · (aod why they bad marched on West)~ we were met not by a legitimate statellle.nt of grievance, not !Jy · intelligent dialogue, but by tirad~sof cilallts and accusations. S.pecifically, v;e were met by charges Qf \y-ott~re apathetic\ and .. you're pathetic.\ I w~~,s told by one studeni tha1:tbis brownshirt4ike parading- was to mark the anniversary of tbe inci(jent at Kent State. \Vha1ever the reason, it ;is my beli~f tlut the11e .protesters ~tbused their own right to state grievances. and infringed upon our rigbtsto ~tudy and ct~erwise conduct ol.lr academic. affairs in an: air conducive to lll,lch studies. 'We pay a considerable amount of m&)ney each term. and receive the rigflt to study or ~deep undisturbed by the · cries of an insulting mob. ITt 1tese individuals .indeed h-ad a legitimate grievance. would n.'()t a daytime protest, or even -1\ pFotest during Parents Weekend~ have been equally as opportune, if not more sQ? Certainly~ such. a pr0;otest would have attracted more people. More import:antiy, ii would: have shown that tflese indjviduals wished. to corivey some message, and not rnerel~ ·I·~ annoy their fellow students. We, who live in West, are certainly not anti,free S;Peecii. Indeed, we belie.ve that this rigllt The' Intel\ .. V~trsity Christhui fellowship w-ill held its weekly meeting Fridar at 7:30 in Hale Hpuse lounge. Charles Tobilman, the atea staff w.Qrker. will ,present an evangelistic ~essage. All are welcome to attend.· Refreshments will be served. · * \' * * Dear Editor; .·. are given new life. One problem during the final singing was that -it was easy to miss one of t.he most important -statements of the play: \The Lord is ris~n.\ The. biggest danger in a pl.ay like this is that th~ very cre!ltiveness of the .play could easily mask · the meaning and truth in i.t so that it is Nd uced to merely an aesthetic experience. Sincerely., Mar.ha Maurer Saturday. Aprll 28, the Bread and Puppet Th~ater put on a petforman<;e of \fhe Stations of the Cross.\ Afterthe pJay ended i( seemed that there was some To the Editor: . feeli.ng of .confusion as to what Though. it is; of course. not was going on and also a question hec~ssary. we would like to take as to whether it was blasphemous this opportunitY to thank the ot not. Charles Lloyd Quartet and the As one who believes in Jesus Union Collet,~ Social Committee. and what H'e d~d for us on the H is not evetY grottp that wotiiQ corss. I was initially unsure how have taken into account the fact to take the performance. There that our parents are much older was 4u:ite a hit of highly original than we, and are probably hard of symbolism. sometimes so· heat:ing. ln fact. fhe group went symbolidt was incomprehensible. so far as to make their music .('t) and there were some f:aHades in loud enough (o· cause deafness in the elements of · the play · as us and to drive our parents'· Pre . s·ented· th b . f eardrums. into comple. te oblivio. ri. . · • e.-g., · e num er o . falls arid Veronica. However, ·When Thelonious Mon'k · after letting it sii for several days, cancelled it Was understood by a generally favorable opinion has the erttire coJrege community that formed. Because of my belief. this it would be difficult 'to g7t an play had a great dea:l of meaning adequate replacement. Since one to me that perhaps would n('Jt apparently could not be found •. come across otherwise. there should have been no The part 1 felt .-was th~ best concert: The Charles lloyd dont: was t~e scene using the Quartet. perhaps adequate oversized characters .. involving the entertainment for the student crucifiXion with communion body. was certainly not adequate being served. The maje~ty. · or even acceptable for a Parents\ gentleness and love ·.of Christ' for Weekend activity. · tts were well portrayed. Also, the Our hope is that in the future suffering He went through came the · Social Committee will be . across well in the movements and interested in the satisfaction. -of \expressions\ of the character~ the audience. rather than in their· · . involved. The ending wa.s also · ·own musical tastes. ·very good when everyone Bill Kimbell '73 }s one o( the great bulwa11ks;; ~f our democra,cy. However, we ctlso realize t:hat with rights· c~me responsibilities not to infri:nge. upon the rights . of others. Thlils, we beJ.ieve that the actions <>f -the protesting students constituted an .abuse of the.ir own ri,ghts, and a flagrant disrespect for their fe!L.o.w students. removed their costumes and Kiin Sportman '74 · \died.'' then rose an.d .feft. the Beth Herrick '76 stage singing. Indeed. before · Eric Herbst '14 .. Sincerely .. Marc· B. Perlman '75 Jdfrey .P, Gint~r \'74 . Lawrence A. Ga1dkin 74 Michael A. Devbert ~75 James M. R()sen .. 7~ To the Editor: On Friday, May 4, J 9if3, the- appointments for student committees were announced iii Concordiensis. An artide appeared apologizing for <lel ay and explaining the ptocedu:re of selection and I quote: \tlle Committee has attempted to pl~Lce applicants as fairly as (I()Ssible according to interview situatio=11s or recommendation.\ A staterne nt such as this is an insult to ti:Je · intelligence of any Union Collel_:le student. As we know. selection f<>r a committee required eac:h applicant to participate in a grot.ap interview. Unfortunately, th.is procedure failed to adequately evaluate. each of the £andidat~s and consequently, the selectio-n proceg-s was 'reduced to the l1Jere . mockery of placing those friencls of the Committee oil Comrnitiees in most of the positions. Thosoe applicants wh.o were not friemls with members of the Com~nittee on Committees might as well hav-.e not attended the interview sinc;e fo~ all intensive purppses th<e selections had already · beedl decided before the inierview. The absurdity of the process is further indicated ·in that a particula:r member of the Committee on · Committees- ~.outrightly stated during one of the interviews thai he had no knowledge of the function or purpose of the committee for· which h€ '\.Vas interviewing. In addition, being· that it is. evident that so many stude11tso inaicate their desire to serve the college. it is unexcusable tllat the Committee elected to seat people on the same committee for two years in a row. Perhaps if these policies were altered. the apathy at Union th\lt everyone condemns would dimi·nish and the student participation in co.llege affairs would represent a cross section of the student body rather th~ul those of a small clique who have chosen to exclude others. Name withheld bi' req11est · Christ we have no more costumes to hide our faults, or our hopes, and ''in accepting what He did, we One Mo:re Saturday . Nite by JOHN PIZZVTO: - • • curtain flew .away. \This just can't It. was 8' p.m. when· 'the stUff b!!. happening.\ l could hear Bill began to take effect. I was siuing tapping pis fingc:;rs on ·the waH on: the ·-col!ch· in. the living room . and .Jerry and. Bob started and the floor started dancing. I whistling. -Just then Phil came ,jn. watched in amoczemerlt as . it I waiked.out to say Hi and saw drifted from the cha-cha to the two <?ther .people. \Hey. man,\ he twist to a free forrn ballet. Just said, \this is K,eith and Donna. then the doorbell rang and 1 got They wete strung ouf so 1 brought up to answer it. It was Bob. \Hey them along .. '' ·Donna was man,\ he sa-id, '\what;s l)umming to herself: I · vel'1f' happenin;?\ \Nothing much. carefully brought out six glassts Come on in.\ The floor was still and some wine and set them gping at it {Jut Bob didn't seem to down on the table .n!!ar the notice .. I looked at the side wall armehair. Keith sat'·down and· an~ the paint started to drip. I filled all the glasses. was rectiiY off. Bob .was smoking a Phil had a small bag with him cigarette on the couch. He had and he opened it to show me what just come back from· Mexico and it was. \Is this far out or what?\ he was telling tne about his uncle. 'he. asked. It was a small glass cat but the telephone rang and 1 with .a sunflower in .its mouth. walked into the bedroom to ''It's from China\ he said. 1 answer it. i was so out of it I ~;ouldn't believe it. It started could barely make out the voice melting. Just then, Keith began to on the other end. ·rt was Phil. hit the glasses with a spoon. Phil ••1-fey. I got some dynamite stuff took a fork and a napkin and .for you. Can·l come over?'.' How started to play. Meanwhile. Jel,'ry could I explain it to him on. the and Bob sat there whistling and ()hone'~ I didn't try. \Sure man,\ smiling. \Oh wow,\ l thought, I said, \Bob's here already. Hu~ry \they're not really gonna .. ,\ Jerry up,\ started singing: \look for~ while Wheri I hung up, I walked into at the chi nacat sunflower.\ the bathroom and looked at It was too much for me. 1 m.yself in the mirrot. My nose began to shake. P~jl caine over kept changing colors and I co1,1ld and p.ut his hand on my shoulder. only see one eye in. the middle of \What do yu want me-to do, to my forehead. \Oh wow,\ J do for you'!'' he asked, ••to see you thought, \this is incredible.\ The through?\ I calmed down. They doorbell rang again and Bob got were all smiling and wailing.a.way. up to answer. I could hear Billy's It was ter:ritic. I shut my eyes and voice as I went into my bedroom. listened to the music. h went on I sat down on my bed for a few for hours. seconds to get a grip on myself. When I woke up the place was Someone tapped on the window. empty. An alley cat jumped off l was way too deep to get ~cared the table ·· and knocked over so l pushed back the curtain and several glasses. He ran into my opened it up. Jerry climbed in.· bedroem and out the window. \Hey. man,\ he smiled, ••J got The doorbell. rang. There was a sorne good shit for you,\ •'Oh cop holding a yellow curtain. yeah'! So does Phil. He's on his \This belong to you'!\ he grunted, w~v over now.\ ''Far out\ tnan \ \I found it on top of rny squad . he ·said as he went' to j~in a~b car. 1 thitik I'm gonna search your and Billy in the Hying room. house. too.\ ••This isn't really happening,\ I. I swore i'd never smoke pot thought to myself -when the Main. n 11 il tl il c p a p c a tl \1 Sl 0 e S< a Sl a a r• a g l. c a E p v f f• c v c n ( i: d I d t• ti d p c . E I n a (1 l 1 I I .I I I I I I I I I I I i I ~·

to a and to not ake the the tee. Of ent en in n:k by an ' no yd be. . ' CONCORDlENSIS, Wednesday, May 9. 1973 Page3 lnve_stigatioa and Analysis There is ;t· relatively new game being played on carnpus. Everyone is affected and must · participate within established rules an<l regulations. Power is the premier concept in the .game, and · Zero~Sum Budgeting is its nnme. The consequences of this unique academic contest Were 4uite evident recently when funding of ,the Hebrew pt9graro was turned down and the courses were pushed into the Evening Divisi<ln. The ft~U implicatiQns af the lero-Stnn Budgeting game may . be hest. seen in an examinationof AmericanStudies, 1• program still in its intra·~terine state. battling the· figorou!! depantment .setup and. searching for its first breath .of life as an interdep~rttnental program. In the last five years the number of undergraduates maJoring in American Sutdies has increased from 30 to 66. while in. the ~arne period there has l>een no increase in faculty course-load credit allocated among the participati~g depatme~ts. English and History; One advisor, David Potts. receives one teachiilg credit for giving guidance to the 66 , students. Other than independent ~tud ies, Am~rican Studies offers only four cmuses of its. own. sophomore anq.junior_seminars _anq .. two. terms o~ senior project, aU of which are required. Normal social science seminars set a cut-offlimit of 15, but .19 and 23 have been enrolled .in ~he so.phomore seminar the last two years .. .an.d 18 and 20 have taken the· junior seminar. Of the 22 senior pr.oject advisees this year 12 . were assumed by faculty without receiving any teaching-load credit. If American Studies has had a steady growth rf!:te why can't ·the tenth largest major on campus meet its needs'? Zero-Sum Budgeting is the answer. If American Studies receives m.ore allocations. from the budget; its gains will be sorne.o_ne e1se's loss. Last> year AS was listed ·as a critical area, but when faculty addil'ions were handed out Biology was given one. Arts one partial instructor. and AS was left with an ·ex:tended pregnancy. by DON ICRO:NE unc:levgraduate alld graduate · · ln two years the overcr<>w4ed p.rogr~tms and that an .America~ semimu:s and an overloaded ·stu.dies Executive ConuUitte~ be faculty shouJd, receive some relief. established. Under the dir.ection Mote time will be al~o available ·of Guy Sae~rdoti the A.ll-College for faculty to build up tile Senate recommended all four of Ma~ters program. A single . the above proposais.- Where did dire~;:tor will also enhance the .this Jeav~ 1\S'! program and bring it coherence. The basic governance structure Arner:ican Studies has feali:~ed of the College .allows individual the game involved and has been committees and ot'her bodies the patient but forceful rn 1-}cting .. tP right to make recommendations meet i.ts goals. However. all have btlt the. authority to ma~e not been so lucky .. The·sad fact is decisions still rests -with the that some do not u.ndet:stand the Provost. the Prdident, er the · rules . of the game and are Board of trustees. depending di~turbed when what seems to be upon the problem involvec;l. This a small sum of money is is tile inherent limitation in the unavailable. The eventual governance Sy~tem, since there ;is. decisien-making as to the no sa,nctiof\ :power and no group allocation of funds within a must legislate :the fhiances to limited budget re~ts finally with match proposed expe11ses, lnfact, ~he Provost and President. These with S!lch a conglomeration of two administrators must weight committees and ¢lecteQ. offices, the facts act, and hopefully decide the limited amou:nt of i>~>wer is in th.e manner which maximizes divided so as to reduce the power the .interest of faculty and of all.· students alike. The above logi~ is the reason why AS has developed at a slow pace. However, progress finally is, in sight. When Prof. Jonas . returns from overseas Dean :L.ichtertrian will meet with him and Potts to decide on the program· director. Recrl!itment for . a new . faculty member. prefet;rbly someone with a ' background irt the history of . Amerkan Art, will begin next year. Dean Lichterman· assured me in a recen't interview. . ''the final· decision will be mad¢ after the roli-()Uts. are received. but. there should be no problem, .. Lichterman. stated, .The zero-sum.· game will ·Still ·be in · effect ~hough-.. since ··when AS gains a· profdsor some ·other social scien(:e department will lose one. \No one will be elitninated; it will be the oatura'l process. When a professor leaves normally he just will, pot be .. replaced;\ the Dean of·the Facu~ty sai~. De-an Wylell would like t~ in'torm the campus community that the education ~ourses th•t .had been discussed for next year WILL NOT BE OFFERED. This situation is due to tilt decision on the part of the Education Department at Skidmore. . · College not to expand their operations in the Sdtelleetady area. As of this time no decision has been made as to the fate· of tbe 'ptogral1t for academic year 1974~ 75. * The second meeting of the new Steering ,Committee Will bE: held on 'Monday night, May 14, at 9:15 in the Davidson Lounge. All · st-.dent!i are invited. If any . student wants ~ .problem. to go onto the Steering Committee agenda, please contact Larry Br~wn at 346 .. 9973, or .Cathy lanelli at 346~9303, by this Frid~y, May 11. J·V Lax Continued from uage 4 burst of excitement. At 13:51 Gary Lauver, set up by Charlie Mayer. whipped one into the nets. The Engineers looked completely overpowered as Charlie Blanker blasted on~ In, merely 30 seconds later, immediately followed by Howe and .his third goal of the day. - · ThG· ·Dutchmen further strengthened their lead in the fourth quarter when Don Hammerman and Mark Gross scored at 2:05 and 6:01 respectively. R\PI ended the scoring at 13:51. bringing their totaf to only four goals in the entire game. Union's JV laxmen travel to Albany State on Wednesday for their tenth game • and hopefully their seventh win. BLITHER .... ·- ' The \Professor As A Scholar\ lecture-discussion scheduled for Wednesday has been postponed tiH Wednesd·ay May .(6. Professors· Daniels and Werner will discuss their research and how it relates to their roles as teachers. The lecture will be held at 7:30 in Hale House Student Lounge . * * * * \The Checkout Dive for SCUBA Classes will be held May 20. 1973. All those that .have completed the course frQm M r, McMurray will need the open water dive .to be c~rtified. 'Please contact him for practice. A meeting will be held for the entire group on May 15 at 4:30 in the Block 'U' Room in the .gym. Please attend.\ * * * * Pre-registration materials foa fall term 1973-74 will be available at the Office of the Registrar, Room 2,. Administration Building, beginning Monday, May 21st. Students are urged to promptly secure their copy of these materials. Students who do not plan to return to U ilion for the · fall term, except for gr.aduating seniors, should also report and give notice of their plans. . Students should confer with :Faculty Advisers during the four days of May 22-.lS. Snme departments may announce special arrangements for advising, Please be alert for such announcements. Course requests are due at the Office •of the Registrar not later than Mond~y. May 28th. Prizes Galore by Marty Sherman Early May at Union is a time of enjoyment .of pleasure, of soda and pretzels and beer. The trees are singing. the birds.are in bloom and spring fever blisters abound. Every year at this time we have :Parents' Weekend .. Every Parents' Weekend we have Prize Day. Ot·her times in the ye&r we have Lies Day. It is this first occasion that this reporter wishes to explore with you now. Through long and careful investigation new and pertinent facts have come to the fofe. Apparently not all ofthe awards were presented Saturday. -It would be irresponsible to release the names of the recipients now. hut the prizes overlooked will be disclosed. The BaJdt Ego Award: Presented as justified to that member of the administration or staff soon to be extinct. This award consi!f.ts bf a box lunch and a one way ticket out of Schenectady on the Greyhound of the Winner's choice. The Bolivar Shaguasty Prize: Named after the man who invented the ice-cream cone and has a ·patent on all of its moving parts. This prize is presented to that daring personality who, for that year. is the most innovative, evasive fancy dancer of the administration or faculty. The Scene but Not Heard Award: Presented to that member of the administration or Student Body ~ho, ~uring the course of the year, makes the fewest personal appearances in a group larger than two. As prerequisites, this person must be well recognized ·and' have an austere image. The I, Ear, Knows and lhroat Award: Given to that pre-medical student achieving the highest cum over the span of four years through hard work, diligent effort, long hours, tireless, increasing application, an iron will, and some buttering up ol1 the side. · The Tarter Yoke Award; To that freshman who attended the most West College breakfasts consecl!lively; . Toast and Cereal eaters are not eligible.. · -The Rolle Me Over and Out Prize: Presented, as nece.ssary, to that untenured member of the . faculty who, through no fault of his own, is being terminated. This prize, given without re.gard to . race, sex. or discipline. consists of a he.avy blanket for winter and one year's free food stamps. Thus concludes this startling disclosure of withhl}ld prizes for Prize Day 1973. The Winners will be informed by campus mail. This reporter fervently hopes they live so lon~. t.evrs.· . . Dave's. Mens Shop 453 State St. (downtown Sc;henectady) Due to this dilemma a Task Fore~ on American Studies was fonned in the fall •under the chairmanship of Potts. The report was. issued Winter term and was considered at the March 1 meeting of the Curricular Affairs t(lmmittee_. The Task Force issued four recommendations; designate one director of· American Studies; obtain for the director the support of the Dean to secure no less than two full- time facUlty equivalents from departments participating in the program; establish, in consultation with the Dean. an . PROGTO.R'S ~~i.ll~ STAT_E ST., SCHENEUTtiDV The elson Affair t~Co10eforth into the light of thi~~ let nature be your teacher;' · , Execut iv'e Comm iHee for American Studies; authorize a new. course in. American Studies at the freshman-sophomore-level. The. CAC recommended that- • one director be d,esignated of the tevrs Dave's· Mens Shop t 453 State st. . (d'-'w.atownSchenectady) 1 ~ WITH GLENDA JACKSON ·AND PETER 'FINCH COMING CLINT EASTWOOD High Plain's Drifter .. , ............... , •.•••..•.•.••...•• • • • • • • ·: Country Squire Motel 1 : I • Corner Rts~ 146 and 20 'ii • • • Western Ave., Schenectady • • • • 355\13110 • • • I Single • SlO. Doubl~ .. $14 I . ,. . . . :-·:··························· .. ··· ' ., . '' '\'\·• ~: r·./ William Wordsworth We have, and that's why we go through all the trouble to make a natural beer. A beer :without additives or chemical preservatives. For a natural Rheingold taste you just can't find in other beers. ®Rheingold Breweries, Inc .. N\'\ York, N; y; & Orange 1\! ;.

'' '~ .. ·' ., ,; I Page4 CONCORDJENSIS, Wednesday, May 9, 1973 Thin clads U:ndefeated ••·--·-.·- --·M-- -· '- by ALISON SLOAT Despite clouds and occ&sicma'i drops of chilling rain, · the thinclads of Union put on an exciting show at Alexander Field for the fam and parents. !his past Saturday, Trinity was dealt a crushing blow as they fell to the Dutchman attack, 100-45. Leading the .days activities was co-captain Tim McCabe, who combined speed and strength to bring in a 1:53.0 half mile for a new track record. Mark Mindel and Greg Hamlin crossed the line numbers two and three to round out the Garnet sweep. McCabe returned to anchor the mile relay as the team (Mindel, Cuffey, Hamlin, McCabe} combined for a 3:30.3 winning finish. In the sprint refay Charlie Keller, Chris boulides. Jeff \Broomes and Jerry Cuffey sped to a 45.2 win over a hand-off hampered Trinity team. Double wins were attributed to sophomores Bill Mowery and Dick Kern. Mowery once again grabbed first in both of the weight events, 48' w· in the shot put. and 138' 10 W' in the discus. Kern took firsts in both of the hurdle events, 16.8 in the 120 highs and 61.4 in the 440 intermediate hurdles. Dave Ricks' 61.5 clocking was good for second in the intermediates as he outstretched Trinity's Jeff Clark who also crossed the line in 61.5. The sprints were dominated by Trinity's \Duck\ Duckett who claimed two firsts with a 9. 9 I 00 and a 22.2 220. Doulides and Cuffey tied fo; second in the I 00 at 10. I and Doulides was the second place man again in the 220 at 22.9. After having placed second in the one mile run, fresh Steve Jones bounced back to take a commanding lead and win the three mile in 14.56. AI Gilewicz heaved the javelin 159' 6\ for the win and a personal best as freshman John Glover threw I 37' 4 ~\ for third. Thirteen feet was th..e winning height .in the pole vault as Dave Ricks soared over the bar to cop the win on fewer misses. Bob Barib~au. tying his career record. also· cleared 13' for second. From the pole vault, Ricks ran to the site of the 440 dash in which he FOR LIQUOR AND WINE Try Jake Lipstein's finished second to Morgans of Trinity. Ron Warner picked up a third in the event for Union. The second Dutchman sweep of the day came in the long jump when Jerry Cuffey leaped 20' 8 w· for the win followed closely by John be Stefano and Pete Walrath. 20' T' and 20' 3 Yl\ respectively. ln add·ition, John De picked up two thirds. one in the high jump behind Stan Jackson 1 s 6' win, and the other in the triple jump at 41'6\. Brad Patterson was second in the hop. skip, and jump behind Czaslowski of Trinity. This Wednesday marks the end of the Garnet spikers' regular season as they travel to Troy for a dual meet with the Engineers' of R Pl. On Saturday qualifiers will ride to SUNY at Binghamton for the Outdoor Track and Field Championships. Classic pose by dueling Ruggers Saturdav photo by Farley Lewis . Unbelievable Victory by BUGGY LASELLE J. v. Lacrosse This past Saturday, about TOO Moms and Pops (suffering from prize day torpor) and other loyal friends of the Union College Rugby Football Club. stopped by library Field and beheld an historical ev,ent. The Garnet rolled over the Schenectady C's 24-0. It was the first victory for . Union ruggers in three years. and only the second ,win since the birth of the club i1lrte years ago. Over the fall and spring seasons, Union ..Rubgy only seemed to be able :n; score points as a result of scrappy defensive play. while the offense proved to be cursed with an inability to consumate their efforts with a '\try\ for score. despite dozens of sound opportunities to do so. At the very beginning of the Schenectady match however, it became apparent that Union's offense would not only control the game. but that the scoring curse would be lifted. With about ten minutes gone in the first half Union retained possession of the ball after a loose-serum close to the opponents goal. and Gary Lynch (who played well in the line aU day) was there to pick up the healed ball and to run it over for the first of Union's five trys. Dick Samuels then easily converted the extra 2 points. The next score came shortly after when prop (scrummer) Dave Hardman picked the ball up in another Union controlled ruck and drove his way through a crowd to touch the ball down in- goal to make the score l 0-0. After Hardman's try. the Union 15 seemed convinced that their ~cores were not flukes. and the ice of Union's dismal past was irrevokably broken. Before the gun at mid-point Union did it again when cagey little Dicky Sall')uels scooted into the corner after a series of well-executed line passes to make the score at the ha1f Union 14, Schenectady 0. In the second half Union was intent upon preserving their shut- out. Garnet tackling. headed by Netmen Whip Albany by RICHARD B. THAU \crazy\ Steve Paine. Skip Singer. and Ed Parise continued to be crushing (by the end of the game Schenectady was two men down). but the oHense spent most of thei.r time on and around mid-field. Nonetheless. Union mana.ged to rub additional salt into the wound when wing forward Jono Walker picked up a loose haJJ. out-ran a Sche·nectady li nernan, and streaked forty yards for the first try of the set0hd half. Dick Samuels then made a tough no- angl.e extra point boot and the score. stood at 20-0. The last scoFe came when ex-Union tight elid Kevin Caumn picked up a loose ball. cut his way around and through three 'defenders a11d thfn foot-raced it 70 yards to t'ouch.:.. down the 24th and final points of the day. Winning will hopefully be the new habit with Union Ruggers. and the dub is looking forward to the last two games. They will be home on May 19 at 2 p;m. against Albany Med. and all are encouraged to come out. and watch. Victory is bliss. Dave's· Mens Shop I 453 State St. ·. (downtown Sch~nec:tady) I. by JOAN AND KIPP lhey were under orders \fo win one for Mom and Dad\ and so they did; Union's J. V.. lax men crushing the I;:ngineers of R,P.:I. on Saturday on Daley Field. Inspired by a wildly enthusiastic parent'\'filled crowd., .the Dutchmen racked up twelve goals, while holding their opponents to four. The players had barely taken their places on the field when Jim Collin whipped one past RPl's disbelieving goalie. Before -the Engineers recovered from their state of shock. Charlie Howe was able to blast another goal into the nets - and all this. within two mint.~te~ of the start of the game. Thus,· the scoring frenzy began. At the end of the first quarter R PI had yet to shape up; Union led 3~0 as Mar'k Gwss had scored u'nion's third at 9:0:7, assisted by fel1ow attackman Steve Gu11ans. The D.utchmen·- -held RPI scon;:less throughout the second period, whj.fe they tallied with four more goals. Halfway into the q.ua;rter the team caught : •. the scoring fe\ler - and RPJ · was defenseless to stop them. Stan O'Brien led off the rally at 6:35 . when he fired one past RPJ's stunned goalie. Not to be outdone, Bob Stegmen scored on a pass from Fred Lanes only forty seconds later. Charlie Howe and Steve Gullans added to the fun when each scored unassisted within the next minute, leaving the R Pl down by seven at the half. l ~ 464 State Street § Downtown Schenectady § L FR4-1888 ~ The Union netmen notched their fifth straight victory Saturday, upending Albany State in an away match. The Dutchmen won four of six singles and again swept all three doubles as they won seven of the nine matches. It was evident that the netmen were well psyched for this match after their battle the previous day at Harpur was rained out with Union on top. Captain Marty Cukierman before disposing of him 7-6. 2-6. 6-4. Stu Fishier trounced State's Steve Lemmerman 6.,3, 6-0 as his doubles partner Kevin Crawford was once again brilliant in soundly thrashing Chris Burke 6- 0. 6-2. Crawford is perhaps play- ing the best tennis on the ream and has lost only eight games in the five matches so far. Coach Walters is not at loss for praise when discussing this multi- talented sophomore. Freshman Dan Simos was off his game and lost to Josh Connell6-l, 6-0 while .Jack Lauroesch extended John Weinberg to three sets before falling 6·3. 3-6. 7-6 to round out the singles action with Union l41ding four points to two .. . P:•dsai:ii:I;J The Engineers perked up in the third qua·rter. which saw three goals for both teams. Keeping with the scoring trend. RPI chalked up three goals in the first four minutes of the period. Union tallied, ending the quarter with a . ~~~cq,..q,~ nipped Albany's top seeded Hal Forrest 6-3. 3-6. 6-2 while h.is doubles partner Roman Rakoczy went three sets with Bob Diskin 'For three Generations.' ·fhose Who Knew ••• Hav• bftn .-commending HERSHEL M~URICE B W . .t\LTE& ' 1 3 Y.~lon Graduates In Graubart Famllr' 166 JAY $1. FOR HOtUST SERVI<;E AND GOOO J£.Yt'ELRY Cukierman and Rakoczy iced the cake for the Dutchmen as they 1ripped Forrest and Burke 6- 2. 6-4. The Crawford-Fishier duo dropped but one game in dispt~sing of I.,emmerman and Weinberg 6-0. 6-1. while Simos and Jim Skiff finished the afternoon's competition by easily handling Diskin and Connell·6-2. 6-1. The doubles sweep gave the Dutchmen seven points and their fifth victory in a row. Coach Gary Walters believes the netmen have reached their peak after five matches and will be ready for the next three opponents. Rochester •. Hamilton. and Hobart. in the three biggest matclles of the year. ~~· ~&~ § g_\li!!!il PHARMACY, INC. ~Accuracy ~ 527 Union St: § SchenectadJ N .. Y. § P.h. 370-.2300 ~ WE\LCOME § l.. UN.! ON STUDENTS. IS . ~.q.~~.q.rq.~~ ~· • , . . , -· . -· I Continued on page 3 tevrs -, ' . ; ! LUIG,I'S RESTAURANl\\ SPECIALIZING IN Italian ~American Food 1125 BARREn ST. SCHENECTADY Dt 6-97 44 E.'}.iOY Sizzling Steaks and Chops Visit Our Cocktail Bar

e win d so men ,f>J. ield. tic .the Jim PI's ..the the ion by be st a founded at Union c_ollege ~n 1877 ~ Recycle ~his .Paper~ Vol. 102, No. 47 Tuesday, May 15,1973 As.se,m·bly~an Eve: Personal Involvement Speaking t\~ the 8rackett Lecturer of the Political Science department, on Wednesday. May lJth. Assemhlyman Arthur 0. Eve told his aud·iencc that \we are a II \'ktims of an .oppressive political s\'stem\ which docs not vah1e h-uman life. hut is often guihv of ' . destroying it. Mr. Eve. the Democratic Assemblyman from Buffalo's H>Jrd Assembly District. was critical of some of Governor R(~ckefeller's legislation and actions, Stating that 1971 was a '\transitional year\ both in the state and nation. Eve noted that in tha.t year wt;U~ue and medicaid cuts in New York State affected hoth the poor and the elderly, A one-year residency hill for Wdhtrc Aid was also introduced in the state legislature. designed by PHYLLIS EDELMAN to .prevent hlncks and Puerto Ricans from migrating t0 this stall: in .setuch ofjobs. Legislators implied. as did the Goven1or. that these people were entering !\cw York seeking Welfare and itt turn raising the-crime rate. Eve sharply called this an example of racism. a \political decisimi\ caused hy the act,ion of go~·ernrnent offi~.!ials. ~oting that i.f New York State. which is \~upposed to he the liberal. Empire State.\ could pass legislation preventing other American ci-ti7cns from moving into its borders. \then other states can ron ow suit.\ The year 1971 also saw the 1\.ttic~t Rchcllion. in whi.ch Arthnr EYe was the first outsider to be admitted in with the inmates. Shocked hy the atrocities t:hat ha,ppened at Attica, Eve was even Sigma Xi -Makes New Selections The Union College Chapter Qf the Society of the Sigma Xi will initiate r~JI'ty-one -associate and fiH: full memhers at its annual tnttmtinn and banquet on· luesday. May 15. at 6:15 P,M. in t·hc Ha.Je House ·Lounge: Sigma Xi is an honorary organi7at.ion dedicated to the encouragement of scientific re~cnrch pll,rc and Ram Kumar Mittal lnst r ucte r in M ec ha nical Engineering Herbert G. Sutter Assistant Prof. of Chemistry , Following t_he banquet Professor Edward J. Craig will present an after-dinner lecture ent.itled \The Fog Index.\ more surprised to lc;trn that the st<!le ttl)opcrs. nor the inmates, \\'ere Fesponsihle for the deaths of the hostages. The troopers. :Eve rdatcd. '\1\'ent in to take lives, not sa\~ lives.\ The trotlpcrs were armed hea\ ily with guns. aga:inst the crude ha:nd weapons of the prisoners. The lives of the gmtrds as well as the inmates were \npendable.\ showing the lack of 'aluc \the syst~m\ has towards hUJnan life. h·e was also critical of Ciov. Rockefeller. who refused to go to 1\.ttica. c\<hibiting his lack of c<,mcern for the lives ,of the state employees held as hostages. ro combat this devaluation or de-humani;.atio.n of man. Eve suggested that people \get ir1\'ohcd.\ He stated his own philosophy as that of \doing\ !!:lings for people, and trying to peacel'ully change the government hy \exposing\ pmctices that mav not hcnefit the people. No't wanting to \t the system around.\ Eve would like to \provide some movement and mayhc some hope\ for the political system. With genuinenes~ and honestv that reac~hed out to his audienc;. EYe suggested that we too. should \resist programming and de- humanization\ from the . communications media and gm·crnment. We should take the \initial step\ of going 0ut and pnwing our beliefs hy hdping (lllr fellow man. 20 cents yman Arthur Eve, 1973 Brackett Lecturer Scruggs Revue Well Received The Earl Scruggs Revue played in Memorial Chapel Sunday night. and brought a small but enthusiastic crowd to a cheering finish. The Revue features Earl, the father of the three-finger- picking banjo. He was ably assisted hy his sons Randy, on guit<lr. and Gary, playing bass. Josh Graves played slide dobi'o, and Jody Maphis is the drummer. After Scruggs and his longtime partner, Lester Flatt broke up, Earl formed the Revue. With the addition of the younger musicians, he has been influenced hy contemporary music. This was evident in the first set. as the band did the Beatles \Lady Madonna.\ During the sound check, Gary, Randy. and drummer Jody M aphis played some very fine blues, but there was only one blues song during the concert. <I p p I i e d . A d m i s s i o n t o memhe-rship i~ based on research aptitu.dc and achievement. Candidates for associate member W A r·ERGA TE: Questions Randy Scruggs was a pleasant surprise on guitar. His Gibson electric guitar had a B string bender that allowed him to produce pedal steel guitar sounds, his aco.ustic solos were very good, and his banjo solo on \Earl's Breakdown\ was as good as his father's. Earl was excellent on arc: Jeffrey B. Alifanz Dennis Alsofrom David Benko · Christopher Blodgett Lewis Bowers Edward G. Calamai William B. Clayton Ill Herbert S. Cole David E. Conrey Craig J. Coonley Robert Dean David R. Dibellus Howard Epstein Martin Garbo Barrv M. Goldstein Mar~h Gosnell Ernest G. Guillet Douglas S. Gunwaldsen Richard M. Hamill Robert M. Hinden CHEM CHEM CHEM PSYCH CHEM BIO BIO CHEM BIO BIO CHEM ENG ME ME ME EE PHYS ME PSYCH Ronald M. Hoffman CHEM Richard Hoppenstedt E E Richard .Jaszc?.ak ME - Lewis B. Kinter BIO Virgil LaBuda PHYS Michael MacDonald ENG Jerry Macher CHEM Charles R. McCullough ME William D. Mciver CHEM Terrance P. Nolan nNG Mark R. Otis PSYCH Paul M. Parker CHEM Thomas L. Parisi PSYCH John B. Parkes ME Christopher F. Pearson PHYS Joseph E~ Pitoniak ME Michael F. Raab PSYCH Krishnamurti Raj an ME Richard G. Sparb,er EE Charles Wells EE Karen N. Williams BlO Candidates for full member are: Howard C Berthold Asst Prof. of Psychology Ronald Geils Research Scientist Thomas lvor Goss Instructor· Rcsea.rch Fellow. Institute of Administration & Managetnent Concordiensis Am.dysis Watergate. One political analyst supposedly muttered to one of his colleagues in Washington last week that Watergate had, after all, accomplished something that nothing else had accomplished in five vear.s ... it had caused Richa~d Nixon to commend the working press. This was not meant to· be humorous, rather it reilects the mood _developing throughout the ranks of those well-versed in politics as well as the average citizen. The scope of Watergate is so immense that if one were to simply accept it there would he little · left in the governmental structure that would be free from questions regarding integrity. The Watergate scandal. as it is now commonly called, has shaken the American government's credibility to an extent not experienced in decades. To attempt an analysis of the entire Watergate situation would be almost impossible. Our purpose' here is to discuss briefly the possible ramifications of the Watergate ... just what will it mean to the American political system? An Effect? The first question that must be answc.red regarding the Watergate is whether or not it will have any effect on the American political and social systems. There ai·e those who say that the system -is . so resilient there will be no effect. Others. however. mttintain that a shock of this magnitude will have serious ramifications in both the s\'stcm itself. the actors within the s~·stcm and the ·affective 0rientation (of feelings toward the system) on the part of the American populace. For· the purposes of analysis we will assume that the Watergate will have ramifications that effect the political system. The Sys1em Itself: The American political system can be affected by Watergate in several ways. First, the issue of campaigns will again be placed under close scrutiny with the emphasis of the analysis on financial contributions to candidates for public office, The hills before the House and Senate on campaign modification will undoubtedly attain a stature far greater than they would had Watergate not occurred. · There is. however. a larger question involved here. The institution of-the Presidency may be under attack a lm.ost as much as the individual occupying the office at this time. There has been a lot of discussion regarding relations between the Congress and the Executive in the past, and these will undoubtedly be heightened by the Watergate Richard Nixlm contro\'ersy. The entire question of Executive privilege will (in fact, is) be examined with an eye toward making the Executive branch more accountable to the Congress and the American people. The bureaucracy of the Executive branch that has been set up by Nixon in his tenure in office will also undoubtedly be closely watched and cheeked occasionally. The question that is in the fore of most analyst's minds is whether or not the Presidency can maintain the strength that it has held in the recent past. These are all significant questions even without the influence of a political scandal; the impetus for analysis is, however. heightened and strengthened by Watergate. Actors in the System: What is to become of Richard Nixon'? There was a line in Newsweek that reported Mr. Nixon as thinking of resigning at one time. It seems that he strayed from this course and decided, instead. to take his case to the American people in a televised address. This speech appcan:~d to Nixon watchers to he the little brother of his now famous \Checkers Speech.\ and the lines in it about accepting the responsihility but not the blame are providing polhical cartoonists with enough material to last months. The real question here. though. is whether . Richard \ixon's views on the role of the President have chtinged since Watergate. There is no amwcr yet to this question. It is significant, though. that two of his most ntluahle advisors have left the White House staff. Besides the personal grief this must have· Continued on page 3 Continued on page 3 Tomorrow evening at 8:30 P.M. the stage lights in New · York Citis Alice Tully Hall will be focused on the Union ·College Glee Club, making its Lincoln Center debut under the direction of Professor Hugh Allen Wilson. Joining the club as soloist for this occasion will be New York opera singer Betty Allen, me77o-soprano. Miss Allen sang with the Union group In~ Memorial Chapel for Parents' Weekend. The Glee Club will be performing the same concert · they did during Parents' Weekend (a concert which was given rave reviews in the loca 1 . rress). National attention was focused on the Glee Club last spring when it appeared before i he Intercollegiate M usiea I CounciL meeting at Amherst, M assachusctts. Musicians there recogn-i7ed the Union group as one or the east coast's . outstanding college choral organ inrt ions. Three work~ for male chorm; and mc7/0·soprano are on the Lincoln Center program: Act II I. Scene I from Verdi's opera H Trovatore, Bruhnis' alto · Rhapsod~·. Hi1d Schuhcrt's Standchen. Howard Cirosshcrg '' i !1 p I a y t h e p i a n o accompaniments. I hi~ will he the Glee Cluh\ final concert of this school year.

i ( l• . '. .. : l Page] CONCORDIENSIS, Tuesday, lvlfl.r /5, 1973 Committees A letter appeared in the May ninth issue of Concordy charging the Committee on Comm·ittees with incompetence, lack of fairness,. and nepotism. The letter was not signed when we received it, yet we printed it because we hdieved then as we do now that the letter reflected a feeling held by a significant percentage of the student hody. Realizing full well that we wil!l proh~bly he accused of the same nepotism as the COC we, at this time, must take issue with the charges presented in this letter. We do not know if they are based on any empiric;;tl referent, but we will labor under the assumption that they are. The letter states, \it is inexcusable that the Committee elected to seat people Ofl the same Committee for two years in a row.\ We will grant that it ·is \evident that so many students indicate their desire to serve the College,\ yet the quality of this volunteeFed service must certainly be taken into account. We speak not of individual quality, but the quality of the representation. Does it ro~ke .any sense to appoint four students to a\ Committee, such as R,udget and Priorities or Curricular Affai>rs for a year and have them removed from the Committe~ ju~t as they begin to accumu,late the expertise needed to best represent student views on the Committee? Does it make any sense to sacrifice knowledgeable representation for the sake of diversification'? Perhaps the case f0r diversification of membership can be made effectively, the fact still remains, however, t'hat with a yeRrly change in membership on some committees the student body sacrifices the more effective representative group, The question really reduces to one of values ... Is .it rnore valuable to diversify membership or to have knowledgeable representation? We feel that knowledgeable representation is by far the more important o.f the two. To Dahl knowledge is power, to the student body having knowledgeable representatives on Committees is to have their views effectively represented. ' We defy the individual who wrote the letter in question to show us any basis to the claim that \the selections had already been made before the interview.\ There is not a member of the Committee who will contend that a person can adequately portray his knowledge in a 15 minute interview. It is impossible to fully evaluate such a person in this situation. Yet the Committee was faced with the task of appointing members to committees in a short time period and used the interview as a means of comparing il,pplicants. (People on committees will have to deal in a grou:p situation in any event.) Perhaps this is ineffective, perhaps there is a hetter way ... but to accuse the committee of di£.regarding the interviews is l-udicrous. Were you. whomever ytiifi~are. present while the .committee met to make their selections? Upon what do you base your accusations'! We will not discuss the other charges in the letter, they follow the same pattern as the above accusation. If there is any basis to the claims of nepotism and predetermi·nation of committee members we implore the writer to voice them publicly. We would, at this point. like to commend the Committee on Committees for the task they accomplished. We believe that they viewed.their responsibility to the student hody as a very serious one and that their deportment was both honest and effective. - amr CONCORDIENSIS founded at Union College in 1877 . . Editor-in-Chief.. ................ ~ ............................. AI Reisch Managing Editors ..................................... Rita Morandi Dave Strom News Editors ........................................ Phyllis Edelman Marty Sherman Features Editor ........................................ John Perlstein Investigations and Analysis .......................... Don Krone Associate Editor ....................................... Chuck Sabatt National Advertising .................................... Steve Kelly Sports Editor ......................... Bart Mercer Subscriptions ......................................... Mike Bernstein Business Manager .................................. Chris O'Connor Photo Editors ........................... Les Kernan Office Staff Phil Alcabt:s Doug Carpenter Gary Lovett lllyria Puharich Dan Rothblum Jeff Weiiburg Bill Erichson Robin Waring Bill West Concordiensis is published every Tuesday and Friday during the school year except during examination and vacation periods by the student body of Union College, Schenectady, N.Y. National Advertising Rep~esentative: National Educational Advertising Servi.ce, .Inc., NYC. Editorial <;>ffice, Old Gym I:Jall: Union College. P'ubhcatwn office, The Jewish World Publications, 771 State Street, Schenectady, New York, 12307 (346-2356). Entered in the Schenectady post office as Second Class Mail Matter. Subscription rate: 20 cents a copy, 8 dollars a year delivered anywhere in the United States. · Deadline for all copy, which must be TYPED AND DOUBLE SPACED, is 7 p.m. on Monday and Thursday at the Concordiensis office, located in St0ller Hall above Old Cllapel. The office phone number is 37Q.6155, but the office is in use only on Monday and Thursday nights. FOR ALL EDITORIAL MATTE.RSCALL THE EDiTOR-IN-CHIEF AT 346-9396· FOR INFORMATION CALL MRS. MARRA IN THE. STUDENI ACTIVITIES OFFICE AT370-6118. . To the Editor: As a resident of -Fox Hottse, I would like to thank the Head R.A., Lew l(inter, for showing the kind of re!;pect for the qther residents in this dorm that an R.A. should exemplify. While 1 wouldn•t have wanted to spoil the fun of my fellow dorm dwellers at the \lamb bake\ on Sundav, May 13th, I don't particularly enjoy' being awakened at 7:00 a.m. on a Sunday morning.- This occurred because wooden sta:kes were being pounded int·o the courtyard ground in preparation fer a roasting pit. As Head R.A. I think Mr. Kinter could have been a bit more judici0us in the timing ·of his food feast. I assume his intention for t:his affa,ir Wil·S to promote ·int~a­ dorm unity and i'riendship. Before this can be accompHshe(j one must show some respect for those with whom they live. For sleepy- heads like myself. I don't believe a little peace ami quiet on aS1,1ndlty morning is asking t\>o much from any of my neighbors, particular.ly, Mr. Kinter. I hope that such a disturbance wiH be prevented from occurring in the future. Mary, who didn;t want a little lamb. To the Editor: ln'what was in most respects a reasonably clear and full summary of the situation in American Studies, Don Kvone has permitted one error to cre.ep in perhaps as a .result of a misunderstanding of out· conversation. It is true that the constraints of an almost \no- growth\ state in t.he siil:e of the faculty accretions to tho:Se departments which will grow will come as a result of cuts in those departments which are declinin,g. This does not mean that growth within one division must come at the expense of ot-her departments within that division as is implied in Krone's article. All eighteen departments are scrutini7ed each Letters year as · part of the \roll-out\' proc~ss. In other wonis, any addition to the staffing in American Studies does not necessarily have to .come out of one of the soc-ia:l scie-nce depar.tments. Martin Lichterma11 De .. r Sir.: I read with much interGst :the letter you published in your May 4tll issue concerning · the outrageous th.elt of the Grandevine Naturalist Papers from the library, which, in my ow.n judgment, appears to be one of the most henious ·crimes ever comrni.ued in the history of t;his college. Jt is this type of crime which shak·e the confidence of a-ll concerned in the campus community, n(lt to mention the students. Being an alumnuli of this school, J have had the pleasure to come bitck to my old school every now and tlie.h at1d ~~\~' the nlace which started _me off on my humqle rise to afusolute power .. I now k,now that these crimes must not go unp.llnishe(l<. I therefore offer a rcwanl of mther substantia'! worth to anyon·e · h;vi ng informal i:on leading to the whereabouts of th e s e p ~ p e r s , ef fe C\t ·i .v~' immediately. Complete .immunity fi'orn prosecution has been guaranteed by the Steer.ing Committee. We wiiJ. get to the h.ottom of this thing, even if it's the last thing we do:! Very Sincerely, Jud S.. Checker$, '53 The Union College. Dance Workshop will present \(:}'pring Movements '73\ on May /7'.../9. at 8:00 P.M. in Nott Memorial Theater. Student Center There is a place to go and study during the daytime. a place that is quiet, a place where no one will disturb you, a .place to have a whole large room to oneself. Where is this haven'! H is the lounge at the new Student Center. When I walked into tile Center, I expected to find fifteen to twenty people talking, reading, or just wasting time between classes. All I found was a meeting of the Committee on Committees (with one person asleep) and two people\waiting to be interviewed. Why. after the school went to such great expense to convert Carnegie into the much-needed Student Center. isn't it being used? To find out. I asked several people for their impressions on the center. · One answer was, \It's got good ping pong tables.\ A major pmblem that was pointed out is the existence of pigeons in the all-nigh 1 study room. which. incidently, is currently open until 2:00 a.m. A - student trying to write a paper complained that the birds' incessant .cooing and flying dist-urhcd him to the point where he could get nothing done. \Everything there is in this j1lace is also someplace else: it'l:l probably take ·time for people to get used to doing things here. for Carnegie to become a · real Student Center. \There's always somebody· to ~lay ping pong with.\ Many students expressed the \\'ish that the center be tap11ed in at all times. since it is hard to argue over a Utica Club. The majority of the sentiments expressed car) be summed up by Has Potential. the following comment of a U Col coed: \It's got potential hut it's missing something; I don't know what.'' The administration has done a gof.ld job in renovating Carnegie. * * * * This Friday. May Ui. at !UO J1.111. the Coffeehouse is pleased to present Rosalie Sorrels and Union students Sev Bonnie and her !-\ramen. Admis~>ion is 50tr and you ge.t free coffee and Dunkin' Donuts. so come to Old ChapeL for some .good cntcrtainrncnt. What is missing !rom the Student Center is stud.ents. and once more people start coming. it should be a Student Center in fact a$ well as name. * * * * I>: partment of Biologicld Scic.tices Scmin~1r Announcement: Thursday. May -n. 197.3 at 4:30 p.l11. in Social Sciences. Room 115. Topic: \Stomntai.Physlology in Relation lo -iJ'Iant Succe!'lsion.\ Dr. Peter 1.. Tohicsscn will be the spe:tkcr. * * * * Do You Want To Kick The Habit? I If you are a narcotic addict or if you know someone who is, immediate help is as near as your telephone. A 24-hour, toll'-free. hotline is now _available to addicts seeking treatrnen:t. The New York State Narcotic Addiction Control Commis- sion will helpl any addict who calls the hotli.ne - day or night --to get into a treatment program. IN NEW YORK CITY CALL.: 246•9300 ElSEWHERE IN NEW YORK SiATE CALL: 800·522·2193 (toll-free) J ... • .. ~ ' I r ( l r I <I I I r t ll 1 . .. ::: r r <I r -~

campus the of the old atid .me qff these nished. of to inn of ill unity b~en tee ring to the if it's ·sJ be m \ CONCORDIENSIS; Tuesday, Mar 15. 1973 . . Page3 Sigma Chi Nite wili occu'r Friday. May 1'8 at Mother's in take George. N.Y. Anyone .presenting a Union I.D. will receive ' the first\ beer free. wmplirn~:;nts of Sigma Chi. Also,. ·no cover cha•rgc and live 'band. 45 lll·inutes from campus. The second ;tnnual IEEE- ASCE-ASM E P:ionic will' be held on Satmday, May 19. at Saratoga Park. Hot dogs. hamburgers, beer, and softball will be the main attractions. If you plan (lO attending. fil'l out a reservation slip at any of the Engineering offices to arrange for transportation. Donation is rifty cents per person. Watergate ·* * * * Th~re is~ meeting of history . ,naiors scheduled for next Ju~sdny, May 22 at l2:30 p.m. in Hale .House . Lounge. The Tn<tin (·lrder of business is the election of History l)epartment . student representatives for the coming academic year. All majo,rs arc urged to attend. * * * * The Symptomatology ('lub will hold a ba:ke sale. weather permitti11g. in the parking lot hehind Richmond' .HQuse on Mav 2n. st;rr~ing. a:t 4 p.rn. PrQceed~ will go to the Schenectady County Symptomato·l·o,gy Associ~ttion. Anyone wishing to contribute or. help in the Sitle sh<~uld pleFtse · call Hoyt Shoemaker or John Thomas at J70'-40 !9. Thank you. * * * * A,nyone who wants to p luv Mille Bornes and who ·like~ winning. please contact Russ a:t FiJi. * * * * There wiU be an important meeting for all Biology majors ''t 7:0() p.rn. on Wednesd<!Y- May 16. in Butterfield 204. Student representatives w.ill be elec.ted. :uui course schedules for next :year wdi be handed out. * * * * All those sophomore and junior Biology majors interested in running fof s.tudent n:pFesentatives to the department can pick up petitions· in the hiology .ollice .. Petitions are due 110 later than 3:00 J?.m. on May ,,6. * * * * Pre-registration materi;,tls for tall term i':l?J-74 will he av;,tilable ''t the Oilice of the Registrar. Rnom 2. Administration Building. beginning M 0 ndav. May 21. Students are urged to vrnmptly secure theit' copy of these materials. Students who do not plan to return to Union for tile fa 1'1 term. except for · !!~=<~duating seniors. should also 1tport and gi.ve notice of their plaiis. Students. should confer witih FacuJ:ty Advi~ers during the fovr days of May 22-25. Some departments · m·ay announce spe¢iitl arnmgcments for advising . P'!<c~tse he a!er.t for such annoum;erncnt,s. C0urse requests .ate due a.t the OfJice of the Registrar not late.r than Monday .. May 28th. * * * * i'ulit7:er J>ri·le winning ppet W. ll, Snodgrass wilt give a reading ~Jf his wotks on Wednesday. May. :l<i. The ;program is set for 8:00 P.M, in: the auditofium of the Social Sciences 'Bui'lding. and is open free to the public. Snodgrass. who won the Pnlit7er Pdn in 1960 for his \'olumc ·• Hc.art's Needle,\ is a professor of English :.it Syracuse University. * * * * \Career Women in a· Man's World\ ·Tuesday. May 22. 7:30 p.m .. Hale House Lower Lounge. Professor Sherry Penney and '\ianey Walbek will have as their guests: Susanna Masters Miller. E m .pI. oy c e o f R e I at ions Management Program at G.E .. Betty lou Bailey. Mechanical Engineer at G.E ... and Sherry Bickerstaff. S·ocial Worke.r in the S~hene<;tadv Child We.lfare Depilrtment.. It will be an i t1formal pa.nel di's~uss ion: Admission is free and refreshments will be served. This is a sequel to the first ·\Career Women i:n A Man's World... in which Professors Penny and Walbek pFesented a lawyer. a doctor. and a televisiort prpduccr. In the pa~j meeting the women discussed their careers. tmcing the h.ackground of how they hatl gotten to the present point in their ca.reer~. The women also discussed how they managed their family life in relation to t·hcir careers and the difficuHies and conflicts that thev faced in this respect. Following each speaker was a question-and-answer period. ·rhe format of the meeting on Tuesday. May 22 is expected to he similar. and we hope that all interested students will attend. * * * * The beautiful ptlsters f0r t:he Modern Dance Workshop's coming \SpTing Movements\ .performances this Thursday, Friday. and Saf.til~day. May IT-19. at X:OO p.m. were done by Chuck Booth. The dances wi'li be as tasteful. interesting, and f!JI'I ·of life as Chuq.k's artistic presentation. * * * * The ·Professor As Scholar Series presents Prof. Willi,am Daniels (Political Science) and ,Prof.' Thomas Wern·cr (.Chemistry), on Wednesday, May 16. at 7:30 in Hale House Lc~wer Lounge. They will discuss the.ir rese!tn:h and how it relates t·O their role as te.aehers. Refreshments will he served! * * * * Seniors: graduation announcements are in. * * * * All sophomores interested in the health professions: there will be a meeting Thursday. May 17. at 7:30 p.m. in B·U 204. * * \' * The .Brothers of Chi Psi wotlld like to thank all those who contributed to the Chi Psi Spring Happening. the proceeds of which went to the New York District Chapter of the National Hemophilia Foundation. We arc also proud to announce that we exceeded our goal of $1.000 due to the enthusiasm of the camr>us. * * * * WRVC announees a REMOTE BROADCAST, live from the Rathskeller, beginning at S:30 P.M., Tuesda)', May 15. * * * * Economics Department Picinc <tnd basehall game at Girling Center. SundaY. Mav 20th fwm 2.;-5 p. rh. $1 pe~ person. $1.50 per couple. Please pay Mrs. Mo7gawa in Economics office. by Wednesday, May 16. Claiss of '73 Memorial The senior class bas established memory of two classmates, we urge you to fill out the proper <I fund to provide a needed study Edward Corbett and Kelvin forin and return it to the Student Continued from Page 1 caused Nixon. there lies the t:JUestion of what the next advising team will be like ... will they put across the same front or will the focus of the administration change ... will the relations with Congress improve <Is .;l result of administration Scruggs - Continued from Page 1 banjo. but he seemed wan and his face was drawn. When I was introduced to him, his handshake was weak, and he_looked to be in poor health. But after every song, he would smile, and his \Thank you\ to the crowd was warm and genuine. The first set featured an excellent rendition .af Dylan's \You Ain't Goin' Nowhere\ that demonstrated Gary~s coarse but appealing voice. Randy and Jody played \Freight Train,\ and. Arlo Guthrie's \Hobo's Lullaby\ brought out Grave's skills on the slide dobro. The second set .got the rather passive audience moving, particularly \Step It Up and Go.\ Randy did a superb acoustic solo of J ani Mitchell's \Hoth Sides Now.\ And then, the great show closer. the wng that became the theme of the movie \Hannie and Clyde.\ Earl's \Foggy Mountain B:rea.kdown,\ which featured Earl on banjo, and Gary on harmonica. The crowd called them back for three encores, and both the Revue and the crowd -loved it. personnel changes or will they suffer\! These are aH questions that remain. to be answered. . Nc) one can predict the reactions of political actors to the Watergate sit.ua:tion, but it is safe to my that there will be some change in attitude and some shift in fo.cus. Which attitudes ·and where the new focus wiH be remain to be seen . The ;Public: What of the American people'! The majority with which Richard N i.'<:on entet:ed office in 1972 was an ,impressive one. How many of' these Nixon supporters have had their trust in the man shaken by the Watergate developments'! There is a. theory that most of these people will not implicate Nixonunless he is proven to have been involved. There is also the the0ry that the developments at W ater,g'lte combined with the Pentagon Papers trial results and the economic situation in the United: States will tend to greatly dimin.ish ,the sttength that Nixon has with so-called Middle· America. Will the Silent Majority remain silent'? Wi'il they believe that \Tt.eir\ President has their · hest interests Pt the front of his thinking:! It is too early to assess the effects of the Watergate on the American people. Soon, though. there will be polls released and surveys being taken now wi II be analyzed. The real question that analysts must be asking themselves is a simple but all-inciLisive one Do the American people trust their Government? room in the library extension. Cook. If you wish to donate to Activities Office as soort as ·rhe .. gift will be dedicated in the fund. and have not ulrcady. possible. ?-~~-~-----~--~~---------~-~ ' I I . I ple?ge $ .. , ... to the Class of '73 memorial fu~d in ho:=-cl:Ed;;:,dcorl,\;~'11 Former Presidential Advisors Ehrlichman flafdeman and Ping Pong Tourney . and Kelvm Cook. ~ I Please print your name and address: . I I I I I I I 1· I I (signature) I t I I ·t I hereby donate $ ...... of ~y .original $50.00 ,deposit to Union College to a class 1· 1 fund. earmarked to the bmlding. of a study lounge in the library and in memory of 1 1 Kelvt~ Co~k and. Edward Corbett. 1 understand that unless I am notified, my I donatmn will not be used for any other purpose. , I l Please print your name and address: l J I J l t I I l I I I . (signature) ' I . L-------- .... -----IIilii]IB----- - . . . .. .. . I . ' ---Bflllll!l-----~-...------ .... --. A faculty-student table tennis tournament began Tuesday May X. in the Student Cet:tter. A lack of publicity has left many of the signed players ur.notified. The following players mu~t play their first two rounds before Thursday, May I 6. All matches are listed at the front desk in the Student Center. Section 3 Tony !\darns E.C. Acosta Levrs· • J ~ • I . Dave's. Mens Shop· • 453 State St . f (downtown Schenectady) ·~~~~<Q'o40t.Q>1 •••••••.••••••••.• § F~:vu~::;,R . ·. i HECK'S 5 LUIGI'S ·~· Try t. ;;Travei,Burea:ul .. k ~ .• • .~ Ja e : MOHAWK MALL : ~ • . • 370-0824 • .~ L1pstein 's · : • • § 4()4 State Street • 151 Barret St. I § Downtown Schenect~dy § I 346·3431 I L . FR 4-1888 . · ~ L No .<.·c·r\it't' Cfrm•gt• : ' iU>~r.v-~.q,~i ............... . RESTAURANT SPECIALIZING IN Italian -American Food 1125 BARRETT ST. SCHENECTADY 016-97 44 ·Enjoy Siz::/ing Steaks aml.-hops Visit Our rockuril Har Lars Bang Jenson M. Benittella B. Hartl. C Ma)T•r A. Shur R.R. Thau E. Young· Section 2 Mehin Boyd H. Care\' D. Cheian C Diamond R. Feller Parlo Joe King S. l.illcnstein C. I. a ngwei ler D. 1 1 cd c. R~)\\C Di mo (i. Sctl\\'Uh H. Sperrall<l C. Watson · R. WesthFO(lk D. Wong t 1. Foster I), .IOllCS L Meisel Sedion 1 R. Stmitsky B. Mowery All inacti\c players will hL' eliminated on Thursdav. Mm 16. l-or new cntties. or ['in~hlems·. c:1 II .lay Ki'i1g .. \\46-9272.

'I Page 4 Tuesd(ly, Ma_y 15, 1973 Union Sweeps Three League Tilts by DA YE HElLBERG '• After a dissappointing loss to revenge minded Hamilton early last week, the Dutchmen recovered to sweep three games from league rivals R.P.l. and Siena. On Thursday, the Union Nine staged a dramatic ninth inning rally to overcome powerful R.P.I, 4-3. Joe Urschel was the winning pitcher. He hurled another complete game to raise his record to 4 wins without a loss. Gino Quirk collected 3 hits and 3 stolen oases to pace the Dutchmen's attack. Bob Bernhardt and Rick Arons each added a pair of hits. However, Ron Westb-rook provided the dramatic blow: A· two run sing~\: with two outs in the ninth to send Union ahead for good. This victory was doubly sweet because it revenged a ninth inning rally that RPl constructed to defeat Union earlier in the · season. Over the weekend, Union swept a doubleheader from Siena, 4-1 and 2\0. Bob Mitchell hurled the victory in the opener for his third win without a loss. Gino Quirk had the big blow for the Dutchmen - a leadoff homer in the sixth Jn ning which cleared the fence. Rick Arons and Rolf Wandell collected two of Union's other R Bl's ~nd Greg Breedlove scored an insurance run in the ninth, The seconcl game was halted after six in nil\lgs because of .rain. Nevertheless. Steve Stockman pitched the shortened shutout for his first victory of the season. Ron Westbro~k scored the winning run in the second when be came all ·the way around following an overthrow of his attempted steal. of second base. Rick A·rons scored the fir:ml run when he siagled. moved to second on a fielder:s choice, and came home on dreg Breedlove's R Bl single. Presently, the Dutchmen are tied with R. PI for a share of the Capital District League Title. Their record in the league is 5-l. as they captured the title for the third straight year. (The league is onlv three years old.) - ' Get out ofmy way you knave! the good neighbor. The American Red Cross ,_.tRTI,s, . ~~Q advertising contributed for the public good W, <'ouN.c:.\\e photo credit Scott Burns a . PROCTOII' S ~~:.~~ ST AT_i ST .. SOHENECT AllY The els~n A /fair WITH GLENDA JACKSON AND PETEJ.t FINCH COMING CLINT EASTWOOD Higb Plain's Drifter ••••••••••••••••••••••••••••••••••• • • • • : Country Squire Motel : • • : Corner Rts. 146 and 2() · ; • • : Western Ave., Schenectady • • • = 355-3110 = : Single - $10 Double- $14 : . . . . . . . . -······························· Currently, UN·ion is hopeful of gaining ·a bid to the EC AC tournament. Their overall record is I 0 wins and 3 losses. It is still possible for the Dutchmen to improve their 1972 record of II and 3. They play their final two regularly scheduled games this week. On Tuesday, Union travels to WiHiams and on Wednesday. Middlebury comes to Schenectady fort he seaso.n finale. No. 11 Dennis Walkerfires one home photo credit BiB Erichson Lac~rosse ·so-ws to Cortland, ' 16-9 by FRA~CESCO ISGRO The Union College Lacrosse team kept itself at the .500 mark by defeating Hamilton 9-5 last Thursday, and sufferi:ng a 16-9 set·back as host to nationally ranked Cortland State on Saturday. The Dutchmen who have been having their ups and downs recently, dropped a 14-5 loss against R.PJ. . As hosts to Hamilton, the Garnet looked fairly well. After a JV Lax Close Home Season ~C'Mel.:ss first period, Senior Mike Fine put the laxmen on . the scoreboard early on the se-cond period, with an assist from Grossman. One minute later Walker added for another for Union. Mikl! Fine, who put on his best performance of the season, \\, added his second goal on an assist from Walker. The latter. wifh a back hand shot gave Uriion u 4-0 lead at t~e end of the first half. Robert Grossman who tallied once during the game, was credited with five assists. two of them going to White and Thompson in the third period. Thompson again tallied in the third period lifting the score to 7- 3. Walker and Grossman added one shot each to wrap the game up at 9-5. by JOAN and KIPP Unions .J. Y. laxmen wrapped up their heme season on Saturday when they bowed to Cortland 17- 10. It was only !he fourth loss the Dutchmen suffered this season; a win on Wednesday oVer the Statesmen of Albany boosted the Dutchmen's season record to a commendable 7-4-0. The second encounter between Union and Albany State, this time played without the advantage of a home field, . seemed to be merely a rerun of the previous show; the Dutchmen again walked off with a decisive 9-6 victory. Union's attackmen, Charlie Howe, Steve Gullans and Mark Gross displayed fine form . throughout the game as they assisted each other in making six of the teams' nine goals. Precision passing within the front line vielded a hat trick for both Gul!a~s and Howe and four assists credited between the three. ,Middies Blanker, Collin and 0' Brien each added one goal to Union's tally, in a game which the Dutchmen dominated from the opening minutes. The tables were turned when Union's J.V.'s met Cortland in muddy Daley Field on Saturday. Cortland scored early and consistantly in the opening periods and the Dutchmen were never able to overcome the 11-2 halftime lead, though they did add eight goals to their tally in the second half. Fighting fiercely to maintain their footing on the mud-puddled field, the Garnet held Cortland to six goals in the third and fourth quarters, leaving the final score 17-10., Cortland. Charlie Howe netted the only Union goal in the first period, as Cortland came up with five. !-'cllow attackman Mark Gross added the second Garnet goal at 5:32 into the second period, as ,.._......._.__,_,.,., _______ o..;.- ___ ,, Levrs Dave's' Mens Shop 453 State St. (downtown Schenectady) Steve Gulla.ns came up with hi's second assist of the game. Union's J. V.'s rallied late in the third period as Howe. Collin and Gross scored at 10:58. 1.2:15 and 14:59 respectively. The fourth quarter saw the Dutchment outscore Cortlmid five goals to three, and though unable to make up the poi.nt deficit. the Garnet put on a- good show. Charlie Blanker opened the period by flashing tw.o quick balls past Cortland's goalie at I: 14 and 3:02. four minutes quickly swam by hefore Steve Gullans netted another for Union; four more passed before Gary Lauver ~:~dded ~ the ninth Garnet goal. Only twenty-three seconds were left on the clock when Charlie Blanker whipped one in to complete his hat trick, and the final score of the day. Goaiie Don Kaufman was kept hopping throughout the game as he saved 24 of Cortlands shots; Saturday -was a busy day all around. f Levrs Dave's' Mens Shop 4S3 State St. L-.!.:( d:.:oz.:. w:.:n.::t,;:.ow&.;., ,;.;,n,..:;S_c_he_n...;e_c_ta_d.::.y,:.,.) __.I, Walker Leads The Garnets looked even better against powerful Cortland University. Walker again paced the team with his third hat trick of the season upping his total points scored to 36. The Dutchmen were behind 12-2 at the end of the first half. but they outscoreq their host 7-4 in the second stan7a. Bob. Grossman kept up his performance by tallying twice. Junior Jerry Dwyer added the ninth goal. With two tough games remaining the Garnet laxmen will really have to bust their balls. This Wednesday they travel to Wesleyan and .the follo~ing Wednesday they appear home for the last game of the season as hosts to Dartmouth. Scoring leaders Walker Grossman White Walsh Thompson ' 36 13 10 6 5 \LITTLE VIN·NIES\ PIZZERIA a~ <f::;) ~1)~ 783 ALBANY ST., SCH'DY. \ Mon.-Tues. all you can eat $LOO LASAGNA HOME MADE CALL We '0:- \J \ _...,...l'i EGGPLANT JIREAD 374-5600 Deliver SCOOT-AROUND BRITAIN & EUROPE ONLY $33 PER WEEK* YOU GET o LAMBRETTA SCOOTER (TWIN SEAT) o LUGGAGE RACK o HELMETS o SPARE TIRE • RQAD. MAP • DIRECTORY OF INEXPENSIVE PLACE$ TO STAY Plus lowest possible Air Fare via British Caledoni~;~n Airways To book or for mote information call toll free i\n New York State 800-522-0456, In Eastern U.S. 800~221·9'756 or contact TRAIL BLAZERS TRAVEL INC. 415 Madison Avenue- New York, N.Y. 10017 * Plus 25¢ per day insurance in Britain. Additional insurance charge for Continental Europe. Also available: Worldwide Camping Tours.

e e r \' a j ' fo_unded ot .tJnion College in 1877 . - ' ~ Recycle This Paper~. Vol. 102, No., 48 Friday, May 18, 1973 20 cents Steering Committee Meets ''Caligula''- ajour-actpJ'ay -· wilt be prr.JJ-entea }rom .Mq.y 29 to June 2 in the Nott Memorial Theatre. No one will be admitted after &00 P.M~ All tickets (including non-Union people) are free. ./ Concordy Interviews: by ALAN GNESSIN - The newly elected Steering Committee. in an \ apparent attempt to- bring government to the people, convened its bi- monthly · session in Davidson Lounge this past Monday evening. All representatives were present .. including a gathering of spectators that ranged from ten to tWenty throughout the evening. The most prominent piece of business of the evening turned out to be the confirmation of committee . nominees by the Steering Committee. The committee members whose names were printed in a previous issue of Gracey On Sociology by MARCY SCHWARTZ: that these factors have had some Pr<:Jfessor Gracey, chairman Of affect on most colleges in the the Sociology department, feels United States, and Union has that there are a few new factors been no exception. which have effected the direction When asked if he had any ideas of his department for the two <lS to how he would like to see his years that he has been here. These department further develop and factors include the arrival of change, Professor Gracey women on campus, the recession, expressed some very positive and and de<,;lining interest in specific ideas on· the ·subject. As engineering. The advent of he stated, \I would like very much women at Union has created• to offer a full sociology program more interest in woman-related here at Union, which I feel would topics. The . recession indirectly include three areas.\ The three caused· t'he' Bo-ard of Trustees to areas a-re subdivided as follows· place limitations on facutty size. L Race and. M.inoriti~s. Soci~I And, declining interest in Problems. ·Social· ·-Deviance. engineering has precipitated Criminology. greater\ interest in multi- II. the Family and Sex Roles. disciplinary studies involving the Small Groups. Personality and Sociology department, such as Social Structure. Urban Studies. II I. Sociology of Religion .. Professor Gracey pointed out Sociology of Knowledge. Mass --------------j ·Communications; .Professor Gracey expressed his Prof Marshall Goldman Wellesley College economics professor Marshall I. Goldman will discuss '\Zero Economic Grow.th for Nations\ on Tuesday, May 22. The talk, sponsored oy Union'~ department ()f economics, is set for 8 P.M. in the auditorium of the Social Sciences Building and is open free to the public. Prof. Goldman is a specialist · in the Soviet economy and tile economics of pollution, and js the author of se:veral books and articles in that area. His most recent . books are \Ecology and Economics: Controlling Pollution in tile '70'~\ and \The Spoils of Progress~ Entil'onmental Pollution in the Sotiet Union,\ both ·published last year.. He is also consultimg edit.or for the journals \Current History,. aad . ''Environmental Affairs.\ belief that for the Sociology department to become what he feels would be a full depaJtment, these courses should be offered in priqrity of the order mentioned. He then further explained the course Ideas. First. Prof. Gracey s~ated that the first a'rea. count:.s are especially essential for a ·well- round.ed. Sociology department. Many of the courses mentioned in the first category have ~een offered at some time at leas't in the Evening Division. When offered, they have had ·substantial undergraduate enrollment. usually between 30 and 40 students. Professor Gracey feels that these courses in particular \would draw on student interest not drawn on now, and would increase participation and interest in the department.\ The second and third areas, he feels, \would tap new areas of sociology not being tapped now.\ Some of these courses are in .the area of micro-sociolo.gy, which is presently not being , taught. Micro-sociology consists basically of the relationships between _individuals and h~rger .groups.\ Although Prof. Gracey feels that the sections II and Ill courses are extremely important· and ·interesting, he feels that they are not as absolutely vital additions to the Sociology Department as those courses ln Section I. Sections II and Ill courses are somewhat akin to either social psychology or philosophy, and are handled to some degree by those departmt:nts. Presently, a couple of the ~ection I courses are being taught tn the Evening Division. However, Prof. Gracey feels that there are too many restrictions in working through the Evening Divi.sion for it to be a tmly viable means of rounding out the Sociology department. The main restriction involved is the limited availability of good and willing teachers from the local area. So, if Prof. Gracey has good course ideas to round out his department, why aren't they being implemented as regular undergraduate day courses? Because the money isn't there. As Prof. Gracey states, \J'd like to see us bUild a real Department -of Sociology here. However, this would require five or six people to teach in two or three areas.\ . The . Sociology department_ presently consists of three faculty members. Since there are limitations on faculty size. at Union because of monetary problems; it is presently impossible to hire the additional faculty that would be necessary to offer courses in the desired additional areas. In addition, Prof. Gracey feels that a circle of sorts is also present. He cannot demonstrate .to the administration how popular a- course can be unless he f-irst offers the course on-~ trial basis. However,. courses cannot be offered . without the necessary faculty members. Continued on page 3 · CONCORD¥ SURVEY The · first annual. Concordiensis Survey of . Student Life at Union will be · t a k e n t h i s .w e e k • Questionnaires will be distributed to 400 randomly selected · students living on · campus, through resident ·advisers and fraternity presidents. The issues with which the survey deals incbtde tenure, the governance system, the faculty, President Martin, the grllding system, the--College . Center, computer, athletic, cafeteria and .library facilities, on-camll.us housing, social . acti:vities, and other pertinent matters which affect the entire ·College com.munity. The results of the questionnaire can become important inputs into the system if a high response rate is obtained. Thus, full cooperation on the parts of . bOth those distributing the questionnaire and thOse filling it out is vital to the success of . this survey. Beginning next week, a series of ~articles will be · written analyzing the results of the study,. .. Concordy were not appointed; rather they Were only nominated, later to be confirmed. The monotonous drone of ·committee members' names and unanimous votes was interrupted four times during the proceedings for further consideration. The first cont:Jict occurred when Pat Wardell. '74, challenged the apportJonment of males and females within the Ho11sing CommiHee. His point, which was upheld by ·the Commi·ttee, was th!lt there was insufficient diversity and representation in the committee to represent the housing. units properly. The proposed Mousing Committee, which had consisted of four females, one male, and one male advisor, has now been returned to the Committee--on-Committees for re-evaluation. The second interruption occurred when it was noted that it was unconstitutional to have an elected official, John Dolan (Steering Committee) to sit as chairman on · the ElectioJis Committee, to which he had been appointed. While the committee members were confirmed, it was returned to the Committee-on- Committees to' choose a new chairman. The third discussion centered around the appointment of Don DeCesare, '74, to the AOC, since this meant that he would also be serving simultaneously on the Steering Committee, as President of the Intra-Fraternity Council. and as advisor to the Housing Committee. After some discussion concerning the rigors of so ma~y assignments, plus. the added consideration that his re- appointment had been requested Dogs The Union College Dog Court convened on Monday. May 14, in the presence of Dean Malloy. In the first case, John Brewer, the student dog catcher. claimed he saw Boog at the garbage area next to West College many times, and had identified Boog by sight. Although he had previously looked at the dog's collar. he did not check it on these occasions. Tim Foster. the dog's owner. 51oted that Boog had lost his tag before the days ·i,n· question. No positive id:e.fl;t:ffication was possible, since· many dogs fit Boog's description. The decision, rendered by Audrey Kupchan. Barb Dewey, and Peter Tavlno. called for a five-dollar fine for not having a tag. Foster was warned that if Boog was caught again without a tag, or found violating other laws, he might be fined up to $15. Next, Brewer brought charges against Dariny-, Jim Collini.' dog. Within one week, Danny was seen. several times in the Rathskeller and by the garbage outside of West. Brewer put Danny in the dog pen once but- he escaped, and, when recaptured at West, Danny was placed in the City Pound. Collins had him released. Collins was fined ten dollars, and was told to keep his dog on a leash at all times. He was warned that if he could not abide by the coli ege rules, h.e s h o u I d investigate another place for the dog. to live. If Danny is caught agam, the court Will exercise its power to remove the dog from campus . hy the AOC chairman due to his outstandiPg work. he and the other nominees were unanimously confirmed. The fourth and final contention over committee appointments concerned those of the Social Committee. It was noted by Peggy Miller, Social Comm. chairwoman, that she had evaluated all those members who had ·sat .on the committee throughout the year and turned in a report to the Committee-on- Commi-ttees, and that a number of those favorably evaluated were - not reappointed. Don Foley, representing the Committee-on- Committees, acknowledged the evaluations and stated that they were taken into full account when appointments were made. (Five ,past members were re-appointed.) Following this piece of business, the next major consideration dealt with membership in the National Student Associati6n (NSA). As most representatives present were highly unfamiliar with the group, Larry Brown, President, made the presentation. It seems that basically the member schools receive the following benefits from membership: (I) An information bank. that may be tapped at a-~y time, which houses information about school programs throughout the nation. As Brown pointed out, it would be useful to have ~uch a s~rvice in considering alternate schoo.l calendars. (2) Student book club membership for the sum of $2.00 a head, which entitles the member to a 20-25% discount from a list of 5.000 titles. (3) Access to a Student Life Insurance Plan. Details of this plan were unavailable. • President Brown further pointed out that if the SteeriRg Committee acted immediately, it might gain membership without paying the $100. fee, in return for a list of U. Coli. students to be turned over to the Life Insurance Division of the NSA for an immediate mailing. With knowledge amongst the representatives slight. and with limited discussion, membership was approved based on President Brown's discretion in the matter. Other 'business at hand was a report from the Audit Committee which either had nothing to audit or never met, but nevertheless, had nothing to say. Don Leach, as a Committee of One. having investigated the possibility of a student· ride board in the Student Center, successfully guided· his first piece of legislation through the Steering Committee. The motion consisted of having three boards. constructed free by maintenance. to be placed on either side of the entrance to Strauss Lounge and on the oppo.site wall, with one each for rides, book sales, and general information. The Ad Hoc committee appointed to work in conjunction with Provost Enteman on a new school calendar had few specifics to report, since they had met just that afternoon. Kobel Haver, '76, indicated that the basics of the. possible plans revolved around two basic considerations. (I) Bringing our calendar into line with other area schools, so as to optimize Consortium use, and (2) re\:essing school around the same .time as others throughout the nation. The main device suggested COritfnued on pa 1 e 2

',,: f, ' 'J •• ' Page2 CONCORDIENSJS, Frid'fY> },fay 18; 1973 Investigations and Analysis Professors William Daniels oj the Political Science department and Thomas Wemer of the Chemistry department appeared Wednesday night in the The Resident Advisor selection process is an inter·estin,g ,phenomenon. having risen from the depths .of simplicity to that ef complexity in the last several yealfS. !t is the purpose of this column to examine the five steps involved in \he process, the Fequirements for being an RA, and the duties and responsibilities entailed. The analysis that will follow is highly critical but is also highly normative in nature. The previous two Directors of Hou.sing before Mrs. Beam interviewed the candidates and made their selections with the assistance of RA's. Mr. Bryant began contacting faculty as .another input into the selective system. In a recent interview with \Professor as a Schol€lr\ series. Steering. Comm. Continued' from page 1 so far seems to be a long semester starting in early September, with two successive semesters of less than ten weeks duration. The first it<;:m handled on the agenda involved the entire matter of the Constitution's election clauses, and the entire legality of the present Steering Committee. A lengthy discussion of this matter went on, with the eventual revelation to all present that the entire legality of the Committee was in grave question. With this stumbling block confronting all future matters, Presitjent Brown summoned an extra-ord'inary closed session of the Steering Committee the following night at 7:30, at Delta Chi. The problem, according to sevecal.. committee members, seems to have begun with the former Steering Committee. headr,':d by Tony Faga. Under the auspices of the Faga Committee, an amendment to the Constitution was adopted, but using illegal procedures. Its adoption was not publicized, nor was there a _public vote on it. Coinmittee by ~he Steering Mrs. Beam she described this Committee, for lack of any other method as \self selection by the aut,hority.. R A's. Most students we.re The phrase, \Elections of the Steering Committee should diseouraged from applying and .include a Committee-on- became dissatisfied unless they Committee Candidate and were well known to the RA's,'' she added. Discipline Candidate\ was interpreted to mean that Steering The present system initiated by Committee members could elect Mrs. Beam, who has left her themselves as members of these position .as of today, begins with two committees, while initially an application by the interested student. The five steps that follow 'being chosen by the students. . This same phrase determined include: a standard test measuring the ground rules for a quite flexibility, group problem solving different election of the Faga sessions with ten applicants to a Committee. However, owing to group, interviews by Resident Advisors, interviews with Mrs . .the loose wording, the Steering Commiuee was successful in a Beam for approximately one- third of the applicants, and legal re-interpretation, thereby consultation with the Dean of pro){iding the Steering Committee Students before the final selection with a legal base. A b f h S . is made by Mrs. Beam. s o.ne mem .er 0 r e . tee~mg Letters are sent out to members Com m1ttee adm1tted, the electiOns · f th r. It d d · · · were run under the ground rules 0 k. e ac~ Y an a_ mmJstrati~n as outlined under the as mg . or ass•Jstance. Y A d t Wh. th ·n rt commenting on the applicants. f rneh~ mien·: .,· edn. .e 1 edgatlhY Mrs. Beam used the information o t 1s aw was 1scovere . e I' d 'd · k' Committee acted, in order to supp ~e · .as ha~ al . 111 ~s mg II · th· bl . b f II' questwns m t e mterv1ew w1th the a ev.1ate e pro em, Y a mg 1 . t b ·k . . . f h app 1can . ac on a re-mterpretat10n o t e Th fl 'b'J' • .. ·J c · · · 1 d e ex1 1 Hy test was ongJna onst1tutwn, tal ore to d 1 d b th 8 · . u · · · h d f h' . . · 1 eve ope y. e tate · mvers1ty ht I e nee s 0 t IS part!CU ar f N y k d.. . cr· • .. d. situation. o ew or an JS use to wee out the extremes\ as Mrs. Beam * * * * by DON K~ONE listing the purp0se and the eight res p·o ns ibilit i.e s involved. J:Iowever, in t·he letter to the facu'lty and administration these responsibilities are reduced in the following statement: \A Resident Advisor· must he :able to deal ef-fectively with people,, must have the ability to handle administrative details, and have a personality (I) that will ~mabie him to enforce living regtiilations in spite of criticism, (2) that • shows some ability as a leader who will be aible to ge.t cooperation frorn floor mem'bers and handle emergencies, and (3) that would indicate reliab.ility and seriousness of purpose in performing a job.\ Now that the process has been sufficiently described, a critique is in order. The most disturbing ,element of the process is the flexibility test: About one-fourth of those who take the exam will fall in the extremes and thus be placed in the bottom one-third of all applicants. The assumption that only 'normal' peop'le can handle the RA responsibility must .certainly be questioned. After hearing what some of the questions were, 1 would seriously wonder whether the questionnaire measures other concepts besides flexibility. Responses for the questions fall. on a scale from strongly agree to strongly disagree. One of the statements on the test was, \America. Love h or Leave It.\ Statistical analysis, such as scaling, should be employed to determine if flexibility is being· measured. Other more complicated techniques can measure whether or not the questions as a whole are all measuring the same concept. More explicit criteria for the guidelines of a Resident Advisor are needed. The present listings are . open to vario'us interpretations and laden with hidden values. For those who are refused posit.iens, personal explanation[;, either verbal.or written, should he given. The candidate deserves to know just wh()re he is considered deficient if such information is requested .. The ab0V!:Hnentioned criticisms would, it is our belief, make the entire, sy~tetn mor~ acceptable, The actual rteeess·ity of RA's wili not be questioned here. It is respmn;'ible to assume that there . are ~nough adrtrinistrative bmeaucratic hassles which can keep RA's busy and that RA's can be instrumental in counseling students With problems. The Resident Advisor can be mote th&n a baby-sitter OI' policeman if he wishes. lt is not my purpose to hiticize RA's,. but only make a case for the equal consideration of all applicants. * * * * There wiN be a meetiRg in SS 016 of all members of .fhe junior class who an! planning tn go to graduate and professional schools (not including medical and dental ·schools or allied health professions) on Thursday, May 24 at 4:30 p.m. Application procedures, financial aids, and admission examinations will be discussed. * * * * The next session of the Student-Faculty Bridge Club will be held on May 29 in the Hale House Faculty Lounge at 7:45 P.M. All those interested are welcome. The results of the last tournament are as follows.: I. Pa-ul Chansky-Peter Guare 2. Mike Levinson- Dan Liu 3. Vicki Gilbert-David Heussler 4. Bob Feller- Stan Standish * * * DIAMOND ENGAG.EM·tN'.t & WEDDING RINGS 3;000 ring selections ia •n '!ttyles · .at 50% discount tp . · stlid!!!~~.; stllff, and faculty; Buy direct from leading m._nufadurer . and SAVE! 1 ,1 carat 517~, * carat only 5299. For free .colo.-· The Faga Committee then instructed the Elections Committee to hold last month's elections for the Steering Committee. under the prescribed guidelines as set down in the Amendment. which has now been found illegal. \Career Women in a Man's · \Vorld~' Tuesday, May 22, 7:30 p.m .. Hale House Lower Lounge .. Professor Sherry Penney and Nancy Walbek will have as their guests: Susanna Masters Miller, Em pi oyee of Relations Management Program at G.E., Betty Lou Bailey, Mechanical Engineer at G.E.. and Sherry Bickerstaff, Social Worker in the Schenectady Child Welfare Department. It will be an informal panel discussion; Admission is free and refreshments will be served. pointed out. Each year the questions are updated and repres<;:nt the norm of graduate students who take the test. In the problem sessions, whi~h ar.e monitored by RA's, students discuss a ·problem with each applicant evaluating the others at the conclusion of the discussion. The RAs' impressions of each candidate are recorded in the private interview. ·~ PROCTOR'S Wi.~~ • folder Write: Box 42, Fanwood, N .• J.07023 The referendum on the past ballot, while representing in spirit the Amendment, was not constitutionally binding. Last Monday night it was publically acknowledged for the first time that any attempt to base the legality of the present members upon the election' procedure outlined in the Amendment was useless, since the Amendment itself was illegal. The repurcussions of this were that, besides the inability of the Brown Steering Committee to appoint a Committee-on-Committees, or a Discipline Committee, they themselves are sitting illegally. With this known, the . Brown Committee met in closed session to find some method to give the present representatives some legal basis for existence. This is a sequel to the first ~·career Women in A Man's World~\ in which Professors Penny and Walbek presented a lawyer~ a doctor, and a television producer. In the past meeting the womm discussed their careers, tracing the background of how they had gotten to the present point in their careers. The women also discussed how they managed t hei rfa mily life in relation to their careens and the difficulties and conflicts that they faced in this respect. F:oHowing each speaker After this point Mrs. Beam divides the applicants into three groups, with those in the top third receiving interviews with her. This year Mrs. Beam J:nded up talking with almost one-half of the 88 candidates and made the· selections from that group. Resident Advisors who reapply are also interviewed; then the student evaluation forms are the main focus of attention. All applicants receive a sheet Vienna and Seville Spring Term Abroad Programs for 1974 are beginniog to take shape now. See P.rof. Warde iQ Modern Languages for information and applications. STATJ SJ .. SCHENECTADY The elson A /fair WITH GLENDA JACKSON AND PETER FINCH COMING, CLINT EASTWOOD High Plain's Drifter Catering to Parties, Banquets · Clambakes, Weddings This attempt was successful, in that instead of trying to base its legality on the amendment under which the elections had occurred, a re-interpretation of the legal election laws was effected. There- interpretation of the Constitution was handed down to the Steering was a question-and-answer ---------...------. KELLY'.s· RESTAURANT· AND GRILL 501-503 Hattie Street Schenectady period. The format of the meeting on Tuesday, May 22 is expected to be similar, and we hope that a II interested students will attend. Concordiensis is published every ruesd;~y and Friday during the school year except during examination and vacation periods hy the student body of Union College, Schenectady, N.Y. National Advertising Representative: National Educational Advertising Service, Inc., NYC. Editorial office, Old <Jyrn Hall, Union College. P'ublication office, The Jewish World Publications, 771 State Street, Schenectady, New York, 12307 (34~2356). Entered in the Schenectady post office as Second Class Nail Matter. Subscription rate: 20 cents a copy, 8 dollars a year delivered anywhere in the United States. Deadline for all copy, which must be TYPED AND DOUBLE SPACED, is 7 p.m. on Monday and Thursday at the Concordiensis office, located in Stoller Hall above Old Chapel. The office phone number is 370-6155, but.the office is in use only on Monday and Thursday nights. FGR ALL EDITORIAL MATTERS CALL THE EDITOR-lN~CHIEF AT 346-9396; FOR INFORMATION CALL MRS. MARRA IN THE\ STUDENT ACTIVITIES OFFICE AT 370-6118. . tevrs • Dave's Mens Shop 4S3 State St. (downtown S~henectady) Tel', Dl6-5059 Boulevard Diner CHARCOAL STEAKS SEAFOOD HAMBURGERS TOTALLY REMODELED WEEKDAYS FRI.& SAT. SUNDAY 6 A.M.-I A.M. 14H0URS 8 A.M.-1 A.M. 'S!lllllllllllllllllllllllllilllllllllllllllllllllll di 11111111111~ I MIKE'S ! ·! ERIE 'BLVD. ·~ - - i :i iii HOT DOGS .§S: . = = ~· HAMBURGERS ~ ·: BEST STEAK ::: ! SANDWICHES ! . = = - **** = ! 1135 Erie Blvd. i ilniiiiiii!IU!IIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIUIIIIIIF MCAT·DAl·GRE LS-AT ~ AlQS,B NAT'L. BDS. • Preparation·. tor .tasts required tor\\ admill!ori to graduate arid profes-• sional schools • 'Six iJiid twelve session Cj)Urses. · • Small ·groups- . · • Voluminous material forflome Study prepared by experts in each field • Lesson schedule can Qe ta·ilored to meet .individual needs. • OpporttJ[IitV fo~ .teview of pa~ lessdns via tape at the center Summer Sessions Special Compact Coursei Weekends·- lntersessions . ·' STANLEY H. KAfiiLAN EDUCATIONAL CI!NTI! .. i.TD. , ' : . . 1115 .... , ........ BroGklyn, •• v • (212) 236-&JOO ll . (516) 538-4555 D~'V~t, EVENINGS'; WEEKENDS SINCE 1131, Booton • Phi !I. ' WOihlnfl<in ' D.....,k ' L01 A.,.._ • Miami ·ne f•toriltc Scllool will& lht Nali<Ht1111de R..,._lioll I t ·' .

dbe to ered is the will is . can The eto a ss to l t h 24 be Poe·t Speaks by JUDY DElN Amid much faughter and applause, Pulitzer Prize winning poet W. 'D. Snodgrass gave a reading of sorne .of his works to an over.flow crowd .in SS 0 16, Wednesd;:ty ni,ght~ The evening's entertainment was introduced by . Professor Peck, and was followed by an informal get.together with Mt. Sno~grass in the Social Sciences · · faculty lounge. . \\ Sometimes amusing; 'often tho u g.h t- p r o v o-k i Jil g., M r. Snodgrass' poetry was extremely well received. The topics. of the poetry ranged. from a commentary on the moths that used to bother him in his home, to a critical description ·Of an examinatipn, provoking much applause from the audience. ·· Some of Mr. Srtodgrass'poetry is rather cynical, as exemplifiep by his poem that questioned the validity of keeping the terminally ill alive. The phrases he used, • . . . . )'r '' such as \tormented yotr to lie, caused much thought among his listeners. • • • • • • Mike . was told he had leukemia. Nine years ago. When Mike Finamore was thirteen years old, he was told he had leukemia. At that time, thismeant he had:five, cmaybe ?i·x months to live. But j ustabout then, leukemia research produced sofue dramatic results: Aspecial combimationof drugs that would kill the leukemia cells .In the blood and permit the person to live longer than ever before. So Mike was treated. And it worked. 1;1e didn'tdie. Instead, hebecame one of thefortunatefewto have leukemia and live. And today his weekly treatments enable him to lead a normal life~ In fact, right now he's putting theroofona house he built himself. Andwhen ·it's finished there will be a doubl.e celebration. The new house. And Mike's 22nd birthday. Most people expect pr.esents. Mike'shappy just to have a birthday. We want to wipe out canc~r ! in yoor lifetim. e. Give ~o the American Cancer ~c1ety. .. CONCORJ)IENSIS, Friday, May 18, 1973 Page3 Fieldhouse Grass There have been questions raised as to exactly ~wha~ is going to happen in the Fieldhouse. We ,present the followJ.ng m the hopes that it answers these questions. X X )( X Union College will have an artificial playing surface in its Memorial Fieldhouse hy next fall under a plari approved by the College's Board of Trustees. · . . . . . The new floor, to be completed by September at an estl.ffiated cost of $300;000;. will. have three full-sized basketball. cour!s, conMertible for tennis and volleyball, a ten-lap to the mlle penn.anent track, and four badminton courts: . . • In addition . the versa1i1ity of the rubbenzed surface wtll allow us~ of th~.facility by spring and fall athletic teams. And a drop net system will make it possible for several diffet.ent activities to take place at the same time. . . . . . . As a spectator sports arena, the Fteldhouse wdl be equtpped wtth roll-away bleachers, seating up to 3,0(10 people. InstaHatian of the artificial surface is ·expected . t~ make. ~he building much. more suitable for intn~~ural and r~cre~t10n actiVIty, supplementing the 63 year old Alumm Gym, which IS the current 'center for those activities on campus. . . . . . the artificial surface will replace a clay compo~1t10n fl?or and sectional wooden: b1:1-sketbaU court that ha!il been 111 use smce ~he Fieldhouse was dedicated in 19!i4 as a memorial to those at lJmon killed in World War II. . . . . Past sp.ectatot .seating on bleacher:s moved fr~m Alexa~der Fteld had made vast areas of the facili~y unusable m the wmter: The current facility had also been plagued since it opened by dust problems from the dirt floor. : . Money for the project will be provided by. accumulated mcome from the Bailey Fund, ;established by the wlll of the late Frank Bailey, an 1885 graduate ef Union.who served as Treasurer of t~e . College from _1901 until 1953. W1th the ~pprov~l of the. funds trustees, its income may be used for specml proJects outstde the normal operating budget of the College. Gracey T minus one week and counting! While Skylab continues to claim national Continued·froin page1 .attention, hovering· Prof. Gracey expressed his . :precariously between success belief that additional Sociology and defeat, Schenectady is department members would bring witnessing the life-and~death rome to Union than just courses. struggle of another perhaps The faculty members hired, as · less significant venture: the present faculty members already Concordy Photo Contest. It is are. would be research~active, and .possible that we have not been therefore very much aware of new taken seriously, or that the developments in their fields. This rewar.ds have n__ot been would make for even more considered worth the effort intellectual stimulat·ion between . involved. Whatever the faculty and. student&. and among reasons, the small number of the faculty themselves than there . entries· submitted so far does is now. Additions to the riot reflect the total quantity of Sociolegy department would also competent photographic talent be additions to the .entire Social pres~nt . o.n . campus. A Sc1ences Division and could only ni aster piece of enhance both. photojoumalisrn is not a As Prof. Gracey stated, \I'd . prerequisite for 'entry; any like to develop a full Sociology decent _picture is a potential, 'Program here rather tha.n·the half winner. Cons.equent depa-rtment we have now.\ This publication in the Concordy would result in not only a well would provide the rounded~ Sociology department, pb.otographer with an but also in more intellectual opportunity for exposure of stimulation for.~the entire college his work to the entire college community. However, unless the necessary funds become available, Prof. Gracey's desires for a full SoCiology department will not be realized. . community. Deadline is May 25. SLITHER Last chance to get your text books for this semester; the Beokstore is now •returning to publishers. * * * * The Union College Coffeehouse is very pn>Ud to announce that Rosalie Sorrels will appear on Fnidav night, May 18, at 8:30 in the Oid Chapel. On the same bill, Union's-Sev Bonnie and lver Franzen will be making their · Coffeehouse debut, and will be joined by Steve Jackson and ·coffee.house veteran Bob Ruggieri. Coffee and Dunkin' Donuts will be free, as usual, and the whole night of entertainment can be yours for only 50~ (PS. Don't forget May 25, when Bob Bernhardt, Tom Parisi, Kevin Drayton, and Paul Delfin are going to bring the house \down!) * * * * Hillel Friday night Shabbat Services 7:00 in Arts 202. All are welcome. * * * * Israeli Dancing Tuesday Night at 7: JO in 0 I d C h.ap e I. ~ Refreshments will probably be served. Everyone is invited. * * * * PYE meeting Wednesday Night at 7:00 in the basement of the Infirmary. * * * * Hebrew 10, 11, and 12 will be offered next year during the day through the Evening Divi~on. In addition, a fourth Hebrew Course in literature which follows 10, II and 12 will be offered in the evening. Don't forget to register for Hebtew if you want to take it.' ·* ;J:f;L, * * Apparently few people on campus are aware of the Photo.graphy Contest being sponsored by the Photographic Society and PYE. There is $50 first .prize, two $25 second prizes, and five $10 awards awaiting members of the· Union College community. The only requirement is that all pictures fit the· broad theme \The Changing Environment.\ AU photographs entered will be displayed in the Library Music Room. Please .give entries to Karin Williams in 214 Fox before this Monday. lf you have any questions contact Karin or iim Cross (377-3129}. * * * * There will be a meeting .in SS 016 of all members of the junior class who are planning to go to graduate and professional schools (not including medical and denta·l schools or allied health professions) on Wednesday, May 23 at 4:30 p.m. Application procedures, financial aids, and admission exminations will be discussed. * * * * The Big Brothers and Big Sisters will hold a picnic on Tuesday, May 29, beginning at 4:30 P.M. on the McKean House grounds. A picnic supper and lots of fun and games are planned. All involved are urged to attend. * * * * There will be a soccer candidates' meeting with Coach Magee on Tuesday, May 22, at 7:30 p.m. in the Block U Room. * * * * · Levrs Dave's' Mena Sitop· 453S..St. ' (downt~wn·SCbencctady). J li. ·---~, Maurice B. Graubart & Sons The Jay Street Jeweler FOR HONEST SERVICE AND GOOD JEWELRY \For Three Generations\ 166 JAY STREET, DOWNTOWN 374a5404 Tennis Continued from page 4 the first set 3-6. Purinton and Stern beat Crawtord and Fishier 6-3, 6-0 to give Middlebury five points and the match victory. Jack Lauroesch and Simos combined to hat:1dily defeat Furlong and Hart 6~2. 6-4 to give Union its final point. \I have entered on an enterprize which is without precedent, and will have no imitation. I· propose to show my fellows a man as nature made him, and this Union completed the season -five up and one down for its first winning . seasoh in more than a decade. Coach Gary Walters is certainly to be commended in leading the team to such · a successful year. With a majority of the squad returning next year, •the 1974 tennis season looks bright indeed. * * * * There is a meeting of history majors scheduled . for rie~t Tuesday, May 22 at 12:30 p.m. ~n Hale House Lounge. The mam order of business is the election of History Department stud~nt repres,entatives for the ., commg academic year: All maJers are U'Jled to- , ,, Dave's Mens Shop 4$3 State St. (downtown Schenectady) man is myself:' Rousseau We propose to show our fellow beer drinker a natilral beer. A beer without additives or chemical preservatives. For·a natural Rheingold taste you just can't find in other beers. Natural· Rheingold® We know how you feel about beer. • \heingold Brewerie'. Icc.. New York. N.Y & Orange. N.J

., ~' .. ; .. Page4 CONCORDIENSIS, Friday, May 18, 1973 Baseball gets ECAC Bid The Union College Baseball Team neared the close of its r~gular season Wednesday as it defeated Middlebury, 6-0 on a 5- hit shutout by Jori Gould. Skip Lega. Greg Breedlove, and Ron Westbrook all lead the Garnet with a couple'of hits apiec~:.;. .--------. t <tlaualier' s t Tuesday's game with Williams was washed out and was to be played yesterday. Unio.n had some good news Wednesday though when it was announeed that we w.ere invited to go to the E:CAC (Eastern Collegiate Athletic Conference) Small College DiYision Tournament hc:ld in Oswego, today and torpurrow. • ~ t f lSI specializing f t p . in hot dogs f Othc r team~ in the tourney will be Oswego State, St. Lawrence, and none other than R.P.I. R.P.I. finished the season tied with the Gamet, both with 5-J records, in the Capital District league. If things go wel'l we could claim sole supremacy in the League with a win today and, if R.P.l. wins, a victory Saturday. Good luck to you a~ll! Baseball swings to ECA C to.umey photo credit Les Kernan nze with b.est hot ·t : Hot DOg~ \\ceon townl f Serving Breakfast, f f Lunch & /)inner f Thinclads nip Turkeys; Lose luck in Stiltes . . f Open 7 days a week f t ' Mon.-Thurs. 6-1 a.m. i · f Fri. & Sat. 6-4 a.m. ' f Sunday 9-1 a.m. f I_ ..!r!!_.B~.~h] __ I My personal .apologies to Teti F~ey upon not printing her tennis article. I realize how hard she worke'd on it but we had two identical articles and of course we could not print both of them. - Editor fi!tulriPrman and /1akoczy struggle against .Middlebury photo credit Farley Lewis Lacrosse Bows To Wesleyan, 12-8 by FRANCESCO iS(;Ho The Union College Laxmen dropped thl'ir sixth game of the season against Wesleyan University in the latter's field. The Garnets who have beer\ a little inconsistent throughout the season were ambushed 12.S. Leading scorer Dennis Walker. a junior frow ~reeport, New York, paced the t<!ci!i; with three tallies, upping his total goals of the season to 39. Team Captain Stan White and Senior Don Kline added a couple of points each, while freshman Jim Collins who was moved up from the Junior Varsity ranks added the eighth goal. Goalie Ritchie made 7 saves. Th.: D:.~tchmen weren't at their he~t last Wc·dnesday. but with one game left. and a 5-6 record, they can't afford to relax. Darthmouth {'oflege will visit the Garnets this Saturday at 2:00 p.m. on Daley Field. Hopefully the college lacrosse fans will be on hand to see the seasons last game, and congratulate our young team for having had a respectable season. by ALISON SLOAT Tim McCabe, one mile relay anchor man, crossed the finish line yards ahead of RPI's Tom Regan and the Dutchmen rejoiced as Thanksgiving came early with a Turkey roast 78-75. Then on Saturday those who had qualified travelled to SUNY Netmen lose 5·4 by -RiCHARD B. THAU T,he Union netmen fell Wednesday before Middlebury College's powerful team_ It was the Dutchmen's first loss after five victories, some as ones·ided as 9-0, /. and one where they dropped but one of nineteen sets. Union .split the six singles with Middlebu;~y, but dropped Jwo of the three doubles tu lose the match 5-4. Marty Cukierman triumphed for the Dutchmen taking an extended three set match from Purinton 1-6. 6-4. 6-1 while his doubles partner Roman Rakoczy also pulled a come from behind victory. disposing of Stern 3-6, 7- 6. 6-1. Kevin Crawford felled Bertkau 7-5. 6-3 for the final Union singles point. Colton defeated Stu Fishier 6-2, 6-0, Bruder knocked off Dan Simas 6- 3. 6-3. and Steve Wayne was upended by Hickok 6-4. 6-4 to leave the match tied at three points apiece moving ipto the doubles action. It was here that· Middlebury rose to the occasion by taking two of the three matches. Bertkau and Coltol'l surprised Cukierman and Rakoczy 6-4. 6-4 after dropping Continued on page 3 ~ .··'?·· ... ·~ ... ·;c~ .. u'·•·•-' ..... -~ •. ··· .. ·:.::. •. . .. _ ...... ~··\' •. · .. ~ .. , at Binghamton to compete in the 26th Annual Outdoor Championships of the N YS Collegiate TraCk and Field Association. The bad weather, rain, hail, 50 degrees, put a damper on performances and in the, end Union had placed fo.urth as a team behind Brockport, Colgate, and Cortland respectively. Brockport was led by superman Charlie Drummond who earned over half of the team's 54 points. Drummond claimed wins in the . Triple iump 4S' 4~\;- !20 High Hurdles, 14.5 (Track & NYS record), and the 440 Intermediate Hurdles 55.9: ·a four-th in the Long Jump and ran on the winning 440 relay team.) The two stand-out men for the Garnet Thinclads were Tim MQCabe. who clinched the ggo in i:56.0 leaving Colgate's ··Hoppy\ White to stew in second with I :56.3, and John DeStefano, winner of the Long Ju.mp, having leaped 21' 4\. (Mark Lineweave,· came- back for a win in the Triple Jump.) Only one inch be.hind DeStefano in the Long Jump, Jerry Cuffey picked up third with 20' II\. The Garnet Pole Vaulters were headed for a good day of jumping as they faced Cortland's Dave Purity/sahel/as 12\. ?&~, &_ \SJ PHARMACY, INC. 't Accuracy . ~ 527 Union St. ~ Schenectady N.Y. § Ph. 370-2300 · § WELCOME § &. UNION STUDENTS ~ ~~~!Ql~ ONCE A DRAGON' PIP OFFER- FOR THE COSTE OF TW06·PACKS OF SCHAEFER BfERE·TO TEACH A KNIGHT THE ART OF THE tW-lCEt AND THE I<NIGHT DID ACCEPT 1HE CHANCE. TO IMPROVE HIS SKILLS. THUS Hf ENTERrD THE. COURSE AND PROCEDETH TO DANCE Lander, until misfortune struck. Due to the negligence of a field judge the sections of the landing pit had not been seC~Jred together despite requests by jumpers. Havi~g cleared 13' on his first jump of the day. frosh Bob Baribeau readied to attempt 13' 6\. In his descent. Baribeau fell between two sections of the pit and landed on the hard ground thus seriously injuring his spine. Later Cortland's Lander fell 1n the same pl;~ce but luck alone preyented i·njury. • The State officials had better learn that there is no room for incompetence i:n an event like Pole Vaulting. Baribeau's one and only jump at 13' was good for third place as Union's Dave Ricks grabbed second place-at 13' 6\ and lander won the event at 14' 0\. The Dutchmen suffered . another heartbreak in the final event, the mile relay. Assigned to different heats, the R PI · splkers turned ill a time 0.4 seconds faster than Union t0 take the win in 3:23.4 for a new track record. Fighting an injured hand Bill Mowery let loose a 46' 6W' heave to sit fourth in the shot as Jeff Trunzo of Colgate won the event with 49' 5''. Mowery came hack for 5th in the disc at 135' 7!-'1\. The onJ.y other Union points came from Chris Dovlides with 22.7 220 for fifth. Congratulations are in order for the Dutchmen trackmen's 2nd · undefeated regular seitscm as they repeated last years showing_. · Levrs Dave's. Mens Shop 453 State St. f (downtown Schenectady) Schaefer Brewerle$, New 'fork and Alba(ly, N. y,, Baltimore, Met>, Lel'llah·'\I.;IIIIJ)', PI,

Page4 CONCORDIENSIS, Friday, May 18, 1973 Baseball gets ECAC Bid The Union College Baseball Team neared the close of its regular season Wednesday as it defeated Middlebury, 6-0 on a 5- hit shutout by Jon Gould. Skip !.ega, Greg Breedlove, and Ron Westbrook all lead the Garnet with a couple ·of hits apiece. ---------. t <1laualier' s t f. t t 1st specializing t Tuesday's game with Wi:J:liams was washed out and was to be played yesterday. Union had some good news Wednesday though when it was announced that Wl~ were invited to g(:) to the ECAC (Eastern Collegiate Athletic Conference) Small College Di-vision Tournament held in Oswego, today and tomorrow. Other teams in the tourney will be Oswego State, St. Lawrence, and none other than R. P.I. ,· .. · J -~--- ·~·- :>- ••• - ', -(..-.-· -· \' • c..< ~ •\ Baseball swings to ECA C tourney photo credit Les Kernan 'l ; f p . in hot dogs f ' rile with b.est hot ·.t sauce m town t · Hot Dog~ . t f Serving Breakfast, f f Lunch & Dinner f f Open 7 days a week f R.P.l. finished the season tied with the Garnet, both with 5- I records, in the Capital District league. If things go well we could claim sole supremacy in the League with a win today and, if R.P.I. wins, a victory Saturday. Good luck to you a:ll! Thinclads nip Turkeys; Lose luck in States t t Mon.-Thurs. 6-l a.m. A f Fri. & Sat. 6-4 a.m. ' f Sunday 9-l a.m. ~ I._ _!r!_B~·!h! __ t My personal apologies to Teri Frey upon not printing her tennis .article. I realize how hard she workt!d on it but we had two identical articles and of course we could not print both of them. - Editor P.uldPrman and fl.akoczy struggle against Middlebury photo credit Farley Lewis Lacrosse Bows To Wesleyan, 12-8 by FRANCESCO ISGRO The Union College Laxmen dropped their sixth game of the season against Wesleyan University in the latter's field. The Garnets who have been a little inconsistent throughout the season were ambushed I VL Leading scorer Dennis Walker, a junior froti1 freeport, New York, paced the I.:ulL with three tallies, upping his total goals of the season to 39. Team Captain Stan White and Senior Don Kline added a couple of points each, while freshman Jim Collins who was moved up from the Junior Varsity ranks added the eighth goal. Goalie Ritchie made 7 saves. The D:Jtchmen weren't at their he·t last Wednesday, but with one game left. and a 5-6 record, they can't afford to relax. Darthmouth College will visit the Garnets this Saturday at 2:00 p.m. c)n Daley Field. Hopefully the co'llege lacrosse fans will he on hand to sec the seasons last game, and congratulate our young team for having had a respectable season. • • by ALISON SLOAT Tim McCabe, one mile relay anchor man, crossed the finish line yards ahead of RPI's Tom Regan and the Dutchmen rejoiced as Thanksgiving came early with a Turkey roast 78-75. Then on Saturday those who had qualified travelled to SUNY Netmen lose 5·4 by -RiCHARD B. THAU T.he Union netrnen fell Wednesday before Middlebury College's powerful team. It was the Dutchmen's first loss after five victories, some as onesided as 9-0. and one where they dropped but one of nineteen sets. Union split the six singles with Middlebu:l>j', but dropped ~wo of the three doubles to lose the match 5-4. Marty Cukierman triumphed for the Dutchmen taking an extended three set match from Purinton 1-6. 6-4, 6-1 while his doubles partner Roman Rakoczy also pulled a come from behind victory, disposing of Stem 3-6, 7- 6. 6-1. Kevin Crawford felled Bertkau 7-5, 6-3 for the final Union singles point. Colton defeated Stu Fishier 6-2, 6-0, Bruder knocked off Dan Simos 6- 3. 6-3. and Steve Wayne was upended by Hickok 6-4. 6-4 to leave the match tied at three point~ apiece moving ipto the doubles action. lt was here that· Middlebury rose to the occasion by taking two of the three matches. Bertkau and Coltol'l surprised Cukierman and Rakoc1y 6-4. 6-4 after dropping Continued on page 3 at Binghamton to compete in the 2 6 t h A n n u a I Ou t d o o r Championships of the NYS Collegiate Track and Field Association. The bad weather, .rain, hail, 50 degrees, put a damper on performances and in the end Union had placed fourth as a team behind Brockport, Colgate, and Cortland respectively. Brockport was led by superman Charlie Drummond wha earned over half of the team's 54 points. Drummond claimed wins in the Triple Jump 45' 4Y2\; 120 High Hurdles, 14.5 (Track & NYS record), and the 440 Intermediate Hurdles 55.9; ·a fourth in the Long Jump and ran on the winning 440 relay team.) The two stand-out men for the Garnet Thinclads were Tim McCabe, who clinched the 880 in 1:56.0 leaving Colgate's \Hoppy\ White to stew in second wi~h I :56.3. and John DeStefano, winner of the Long Jump, having leaped 21' 4\. (Mark Lineweave.- came- back for a win in the Triple .lump.) Only one inch behind DeStefano in the Long Jump, Jerry C'uffey picked up third with 20' I I\. The Garnet Pole Vaulters were headed for a good day of jumping as they faced Cortland's Dave ~~~~~~~~Gr.~ Purity Isabella s 1\2\. ~&';41, ~ \SI PHARMACY, INC. .~Accuracy ~ 527 Union St. § Schenectady N.Y. § Ph. 370-2300 § WELCOME § ~ UNION STUDENTS ~ ~~~r.Ch<U><.4i ·.!l.... . .. ., ... ,. .... •-' .•... ~ ... . • ... ··c::::;w ... ONCE. A DRAGON DID OFFER- FOR THE COSTE OF TWO 6·PACJ<S OF SCHAEFER BfERE·TO TEACH A KNIGHT THE ARt OF THE DANCE, •. ···-~-:.:.. ... . . AND THE. KNIGHT DID ACCEPT iHE CHANCE TO IMPROVE HIS SKILLS. ······--·fl!o. ••• ,.. .... ;,,,,,, .... . •... ~--~ \THUS HE. ENTERED THE COURSE AND PROCEDETH TO DANCE. Lander, until misfortune struck. Due to the negligence of a field judge the sections of the landing pit had not been secured together despite requests by jumpers. Havipg cleared 13' on his first jump of the day, frosh Bob Baribeau readied to attempt 13' 6\. In his descent. Baribeau fell between two sections of the pit and landed on the hard ground thus seriously injuring his spine. Later Cortland's Lander fell 111 the same place but luck alone prevented injury. • The State officials had better learn that there ls no room for incompetence in an event like Pole Vaulting. Baribeau's one and only jump at 13' was good for third place as Union's Dave Ricks grabbed second place- at 13' 6\ and Lander wo.n the event at 14' 0\. The Dutchmen suffered another heartbreak in the final event, the mile relay. Assigned to different heats, the R PI spikers turned in a time 0.4 seconds faster than Union tl'l take the win in 3:23.4 for a new track record. Fighting an injured hand Bill Mowery let loose a 46' 6W' heave to sit fourth in the shot as Jeff Trunzo of Colgate won the event with 49' 5\. Mowery came back for 5th in the disc at 135' 7YS''. The only other Union points came from Chris Dovlides with 22.7 220 for fifth. Congratulations are in order for the Dutchmen trackmen:s 2nd undefeated regular season as they repeated last years showing. - Dave's. Mens Shop 453 State St. (downtown Schenectady) Schaefer Breweries, New 'fork and Albany, N.y., Balliinore, Met., Lehlgh·Valley,.Pa.

·.··· ruck. Held ether first Bob t 13' fell pit pine. 11 in that for like and for 14' I to in Bill ack . ints ons ted j founded at Union College !,n 1877 .l' Recycle This Paper~ Vol. 102, No. 49 Tuesday, Ma,y 22, 1973 20 eents Union Charged· With Sex Discrimination STAR SPANGLED WASHBOARD BAND Don't miss Carnival Weekend (this weekend), May 25-27 (Friday-Sunday): - FRIDAY - Coffeehouse featuring Bob Bernhardt, Paul Delfin·, Tom. Parisee, !l,nd Kevin Drayton at 8:00 in the Old Chapel. The Social Committee is pr.esenting at 1·2:30 in front of tile. Library (or in the Gyfl!. in case of rain) F:REE, NIGHT- OF THE LIVIN'G DEAD! a good horror film!! SATURDAY ..... During the afternoon, f~;ee band featuring \Daddy Long Legs\ in front of ADP Film Haps: Th~ Summer· .of '42 plus \The Best of Bogart\ 7,9, ll p.m. in SS016. $1.00 (Saturday and Sunday). \Coeds' Block Party;; in Library Plaza, from 7 p.m. to midnight. SUNDAY - The Social Committ~~ .presents (in front of Nott Memorial) .. Jonah,\ \Star-Spangled Washboard Band,\ and \The Jeske Family Country Music Band\ with square dancing. Beer will be sold outside, along with balloons, and ·Saga win serve an o11tside dinner. In case \Of rain activities will be held in the Gym. Concortliensis Summary The .!o<::al ne\\.~ media eurried u story 'eH'Ial weeks ago .stating i·n d'fn:t tll<it l.' nion College a!ong with se\eml o.then .. \Ia~. gu·ilty of ~ex-discrimination in ih admissions procedures. In an eFfort to verify these charge~. Concordiensis turns to Higher Education and National Affairs, a puhlic11tjon of the American Council on EdUcation which, in its May 18 issue, discusses the origins· and the meaning of such charges. The Office for Civil Rights of the Department of Health, Education. 'and Welfare has mailed instructions to 170 institutiof;!S about complying with provisions • of the Education Amendments of 1972 prohibit,ing sex. discrimination in student Admissions. The 170, all of which participate in federal assistance pro~rams. either· recently became coeducational or are \single-sex·· institutions with .. graduate .programs. Almost all in the group a,re private institutions, most of them with a religious affiliation. Attitudes In Conflict Spring is a time .of mimy things. Newspapers usually try to ~ssess the conditions t flat they have been dealing with threugh- the year ... that's What this grew out of. We get a lot of mail. most of it nonsense. but some things are of value and every now and then two items come at the. same time that, when viewed together. are really amazing. The May ninth issue of the Albany Student Press anived today along with a booklet (from a totally separate source) called \The How to Manipulate People Manual (II).\ These two items perhaps sum liP academic year 1973 better than we ever cou1d. The article in ASP is the only article we've received dealing with like actions~ the booklet is at first glance comical and after some reading amazingly re.actionary. We offer them both to YOll below with the realization . that the booklet. published by tl;te Campus Studies Institute. a division of World Research, Inc .. has a tone that is by far the more prevalent of the two. at least in the publications from schools around the countrv th•:lt we receive. This is ·the article from ASP that appeared under the bead: \Students plan sit•in at 2:30 today in President's office'• pay taxes in the state. The university .is here for us -· the students. We are the employers, the administration and facvlty are the employees. We mvst press for whnt we believe in. what we rightfully deserve.'' The purpose of the rally was to generate enthusiasm for the continuing struggle with the administration over tenure procedures and Arts and Science Dean I. Moyer Hunsberger's position in the university. Chris Masterson. a member of the steering cornmittee asked the crowd to \get it together.\ She said. \The students here must believe themselves and their concerns. Our collective energy can shake this place up if we don't allow outsiders to convince us that we don't matter.\ I. Moyer Hunsberger has been receiving the brunt of this latest attack but there are those who feel he is only Vice~President Sirotkin's \hatchet man.\ Sirotkin is Hunsberger's immediate superior in the administration bureaucracy and one faculty member who spoke privately said. \Sirotkin is the one they should be after. He is one of the major obstacles and he is the one who is Jetting Hunsberger clo the dirty work.\ Curt Smith. one of tho~e whose contract is not being continued, told the audience: \The university has gone against the stated principles of democracy.\ He went on to say that It is not only the admi·nistration that is responsible for the purge but a 'reactio.nary· faculty' · as welL Smith added that the reason that there were · not more faculty members at the rally was because, '\the administration and reactionary faculty have produced an atmosphere of fear. an atmosphere of intimidation.\ He told the audience that one reason Carol Waterman and himself. both candidates of the Outstanding Teacher Awards, were not winners of that award was because \we would not drink c.hampagne with Dean H.unsberger ·- a prerequisite for success.\ The only other faculty member who addressed the crowd was l.erov Pelton from the Psych.ology department. Pelton, in one of the more vigorous , speeches of the day said, \We have to change the priorities .of this university - we have to exert pressure by closing this university down till they change things.\ He wlirned his audience. '\If you think vou can reason with these . people- (administration) you have got another think ;:oming.\ The day\s activity ended with those present voting to participate Continued on page 2 Students continued to express their dissatisfaction with the administration and their concern. for the victims of a tenure system they ·feel \'discriminates against the ahlest teachers'' Tuesday at a ral'ly held between the Administration and Fine Arts huHdings. \ Those w h o nt a k e peace f u 1 !he 200 people attending the rally. heard faculty and students condemn what they allege is a \purge\ to end academic freedorn ·- on this campus. It was the third consecutive day of such ex.pressed public concern. Rkk (iinsberg. member of the student steering eommittce and a strong supporter of Associate History Department Professor. David Goodman. told the gathering, \We have to remember thact we ·pay the tuition .here. we rePoltJtio11 i Hzpos si hle make ret)olutioJt i1terJitable.·· uiole~J t Qlunror Shades of the past? This how the masthead oj the now Concordiensis appeared in 1969. Times have most certainly changed. Title I X of the amendments. concerning sc.'i discrimination in admissions. dncs not ap.p.ly to nHdergraduate ins.titution~ which \\cre founded as and continue to he o;lngle-sex institutions. or tn military or merchant marine colleges. It also would not apply to religious institutions if coeducation Is inconsistent with the religious tenets of the controlling organization. The memorandum stat~s that institutions which were single sex as of June 24, 1972, or which began to admit students of both ... exes .after June 23, 1965. arc not p1uhihitl'd from di~crimination on th~: ha~i~ of ~e\ iB admis~illm until .June ~4. 1973. \In addition. t.fH:~~· i1btitutinm ma) han: up Il-l ... ix year~ after June ~4. 1973 to cl'H1lpletcly din1inate such discrimination if they arc operating under a transition plan which is approved by the Commissioner of Education.\ Institutions were asked to determine if they come under the legislat.ion and, if so, to submit a complying admissions plan within 45 days. Vision_s Of A New Art In what he described as a \collage\ form of lecture, Gyorgy Kepes (Ke-pish) presented a c<mvinc~ng argument for the revitalization of contemporary art. The main body of the lecture . a series of slides to illustra1e his theories,. wa_s •. prefac-ed by an autobiographi·e:aa · .account of Kepes' early career. A so-called \wonder child,\ Xepes excelled and conse·quently became disillusioned with conventional means of visual communication early. lt was not until he left Hungary and c~ine to this country that he began to apply himself fully to his .artistic convictions. Kepes is presently at the Center for Advanced Visual Studies at MIT. where the emphasis is on the search for a \corttmon ground\ between art and sdence. At MIt, Kepes underwent what he calls \cuJtu.ral · shock,\ with the .. ,P·LseQ>\!ery that technology has :advanced. so far ahead of art that scientists are literally \outs.ide\ the realm of art. Kepes considers this evolution to be primarily a separation between the \internal and external natures\ of man, a gap he feels must now be Present plans call for the classes of 1974 and 1975 to get new lD cards next fall, along · with the incoming freshmen. After this year. it will be .a : regular practice to have the incoming junior and freshman classes receive new cards in the fall at no cost. The class of 1976 should retain the present JJ) cards since replacement will involve a char.2e of $5.QO •. narrowed thr,ough the cooperative efforts of artists and scientists. His slide presentation was well-· timed and well-received. It essentially conveyed Kepes' conviction that art has abandoned several of its societal functions; its potential for public enrichment has not been realized in this centurv, or for that matter, in the last 400 years. Kepes feels that \the last 400 years of art have emphasized the pe.rsonal aspect\ a reflection of man's isolation in an increasingly complex world. II is a self-perpetuating circumstance that .manifests itself in our physical surroundings as well as our psyches. Skyscrapers, SIJhways,, a_nd polluted resources all inhibit comrr1uriication. and foster the individual's insecurity and.sense ofloneliness. There has been a loss. of communication, contends Kepes. not only between individuals. but between man and his natural environment. Though most of the slides pres·ented a dbtressing view of our predicament. they were not without exception. Mexico was described as exhibiting some of the same architectural harmonies as ancient Greece. Brightly painted houses in the midst of slum conditions -- give a feeling of community to the neighborhoods. This unselfish \decoration of common property~· is vital for the restoration of communication between lonely individuals. Responding to a question concerning the value of present art movements. Kepes commented on their Continued on page 3 This Thursday evening at 8:30 irz Memorial Chapel, Robert Bernhardt, '73, will hold his senior concert- recital, toward his degree in Fine Arts-Music. The communit}' is cordially invited to attend. There is no admission fee.

j\' field ding pers. first Bob 13' fell pit I in tate f(>r like and for 6\ 14' red I to m nts ith ed j founded at Union c_ollege ~n 1877 . . ~ Recycle This Paper} Vol. 102, No. 49 Tuesday, May 22, 1?73 20 cents Union Charged With STAR SPANGLED WASHBOARD BAND Don't miss Carnival Weekend (this weekend), May 25-27 (Friday-Sunday): - FRIDAY - Coffeehouse featuring Bob Bernhardt, Paul Delfinj Tom Parisee, and Kevin Drayton at 8:00 in the Old Chapel. The Social Committee is pr~senting at 12:30 in front of the. Library {or in the Gym in case of rain) F:REE, NIGHT OF THE LIVING DEAD, a good horror film!! SATURDAY- During the afternoon, free band featuring ••Daddy Long Legs\ in front of ADP Film Haps: The Summer of '4:2 plus \The Best of Bogart\ 7, 9, 1 I p.m. in SS016. $1.00 (Saturday and Sunday). .. Coeds' Block Party;; in Library Plaza, from 7 p.m. to midnight. SUNDAY - The Social Committe_~ presents (in front of Nott Memorial) \Jonah \Star-Spangled Washboard Band,\ and \The Jeske Family Country Music Band\ with square dancing. Beer will be sold outside, along with balloons, and Saga will serve an outside dinner. In case of rain activities will be held in the Gym. Concordiensis Summar)' Tht: local ne\\' mt.:dia carricd a 'tor~ 'e\ era I \Web, ago ~tat ing in cllcct that l' nion {'otk:gt: a!ong \\ ith -,c\eral other~. v.as guilty of -.c.\-di-,criminati.on in ih admi,sil>m procedure-,. In an effort to verify tihe'e charges. Concordiensis turn~ to Higher Education and National Affairs, a publication of t:he American Council on Education which. in its May IS iss1:1e. discusses the origins and the meaning of such charges. The Office for Civil Rights of the Department of Health. Education, and Welfare has mailed instructions to 170 institutions about complying with provisions of the Education Amendments of 1972 prohibiting sex discrimination in student Admissions. The 170. all of which participate in federal assistance programs. either recently became coeducational or are \single-sex\ institutions with . graduate programs. Almost all in the group arc private inst,itutions. most of them with a religious a fr\iliation. · Attitudes In Conflict Spring is a time of many things. Newspapers usually try to assess the conditions that they have been dealing with through the year ... that's what this grew out of. We get a lot of mail. most of it nonsense. but some things. are of value and every now and then two items come at the same time that. when viewed together. are really ama1ing. The May ninth issue of the Albany Student Press arrived today along with a booklet (from a totally separate source) called \'The How to Manipulate People Manual (If).\ These two items perhaps sum up academic year 1973 better than we ever cou·Jd. The article in ASP is the only article we've received dealing with like actions; the booklet is at first glance comical and after some ;eading amazingly reactionary. We offer them both to you below with the realization that the booklet. published by tbe Campus Studies Institute. a division of World Research. Inc .. has a tone that is bv far the more prevalent of the . two. at least in the publications from schools around the countrv that we receive. This is ·the articie fmm ASP that appeared under the head: \Students plan sit-in at 2:30 today in President's office'' Students continued to express their dissatisfaction with the ad ministration and their concern for the victims of a tenure system they feel \discriminates against the ablest teachers\ Tuesday at a rally held between the Administration and Fine Arts buildings. lhe 200 people attending the rail\' hea.rd faculty and students con-demn what they allege is a \purge\ to end academic freedom · on this campus. It was the third consecutive day of such expressed puhlic concern. Rick Ginsberg. member of the student steering committee and a strong supporter of Associate History Department Professor. David Goodman. told the gathering, \We have to remember that we 11.ay the tuition :here. we pay taxes i·n the state. The university is here for u.s - the students. We are the employers. the administration and faculty are the employees. We must press for wh<\t we believe in. what we rightfully deserve.\ The purpose of the rally was to generate enthusiasm for the continuing struggle with the administration over tenure procedures and Arts and Science Dean I. Moyer Hunsberger's position in the university. Chris Masterson. a member of the steering committee asked the crowd to \get it together.\ She said. \The students here must believe themselves and their concerns. Our collective energy can shake this place up if we don't allow outsiders to convince us that we don't matter.\ I. Moyer Hunsberger has been receiving the brunt of this Ia test attack but there are those who feel he is only Vice~President Sirotkin's \hatchet man.\ Sirotkin is Hunsberger's immediate superior in the ad ministration bureaucracv and one faculty member who spoke privately said. \Sirotkin is the one they should he after. He is one of the major obstacles and he is the one who is letting Hunsberger clo' the dirty work.\ Curt Smith. one of thme whose contract is not being conti·nued. told the audience: \The university has gone against the stated principles of democracy.\ He went on to say that it is not only the administr!J,tion that is responsible for the purge but a 'reactio.nary faculty' as well. Smith added that the reason that there were not more faculty members at the rally was because. .. the administration and reactionary faculty have produced an atmosphere of fear. an atmosphere of intimidation.\ He told the audience that one reason Carol Waterman and himself. hoth candidates of the Outstanding Teacher Awards. were not winners of that award was because \we would not drink champagne with Dean Hunsberger - a prerequisite for success.\ The only other faculty member who addressed the crowd was Lerov Pelton from the Psych-ology department. Pelton, in one of the more vigorous , speeches of the day said, \'We have to change the priorities of this university ~ we have to exert pressure by closing this university down till they change things.\ He w!irned his audience. '\If you think vou can reason with these people. (administrafion) you have got another think ..:oming.\ The day's activity ended with those present voting to participate Continued on page 2 \Those tf\ h o 111 a k e pea c e j u 1 i nt p o s s i h l e n1 a k e repolutio11 PioleHt rePolution i11et 1 it able.,. Qlouror Shades of the past? This how the masthead of the now Concordiensis appeared in 1969. Times have most certainly changed. Sex Discrimination Title I:\ of the amend mt:nts. concerning ~C'< di~niminat·ion in admission~. doc~ not apply to undergraduate institution~ which \\l'rt: founded a~ and continue to he -;inglc-sc\ institutions. or to military or merchant marine t:l•lllcges. It also would not apply to religious institutions if coeducation is inconsistent with the religious tenets of the controlling organization. The memorandum states that institutions which were single sex as of June 24. 1972. or which began to admit students of both se.\t:s after June ~J. 1965. art: not r1uiJihitL'd fnllll di-,criminatiOil on the ha -.is of sn in adm i~!-.ion~ until .June ~4. 1973 ... In addition, tht::-.\.' in-,titution' ma~ h:nc up tn -.i.\ year~ after June ~4. 1973 to <::ompletely eliminate such discrimination if the) arc operating under a transition plan which is approved by the Commissioner of Education.\ Institutions were asked to determine if they come under the legislation and. if so, to submit a complying admissions plan within 45 days. Visions Of A New Art In what he described as a \collage\ form of 'lecture, Gyorgy Kepes (Ke-pish) presented a convinc~ng argument for the revitalization of contemporary art. The main body of the lecture. a se.ries of slides to illustrate his theories, was. prefaced by an autobiographica 1 1 -a'ccount of Kepes' early career. A so-called ··wonder child.\ K.epes excelled a·nd consequently became disillusioned with conventional means of visual communication earlv. It was not until he left Hungary and c1;1.me to this country that he began to apply himself fully to his artistic convictions. Keres is presently at the Center for Advanced Visual Studies at MIT. where the emphasis is on rhe search for a \common ground\ between art and s<;ience. At MIT. Kepes underwent what he calls \\cultural shock,\ with the .. disc.ov.e·ry that technology has advanced so far ;thead of art that scientists are literallv \outside;' the realm of art. ·Kepes considers this evolution to be primarily a separation between the \internal and external natures\ of man. a gap he feels must now be Present plans call for the classes of 1974 and 1975 to get new ID cards next fall, along with the incoming freshmen. After this year, it will be a· regular practice to have the incoming junior and freshman classes receive new cards in the fall at no cost. The class of 1976 should retain the present ID cards since replacement Will involve a char2e of $5.00. · narrowed through the cooperative efforts of artists and scientists. His slide presentation was well-· timed and well-received. It essentially conveyed Kepes' conviction that art has abandoned several of its societal functions; its potential for public enrichment has not been realized in this centurv. or for that matter. in the last 400 years. Kepes feels that \the last 400 years of art l'tave emphasized the personal aspect\ a reflection of man's isolation in an increasingly complex world. I t i s a s e If-per pet ua tin g circumstance that manifests itself in our physical. surroundings as well as our psyches. Skyscrapers. subways, and pollut~d resources all inhibit communication and foster the individual's insecurity and sense of loneline~s. There has been a loss of communication. contends Kepes, not only between individuals. but between man and his natural environment. Though most of the slides presented a distressing view of our predicament. they were not without exception. Mexico was described as exhibiting some of the same architectural harmonies as ancient Greece. Brightly painted houses in the midst of slum conditions give a feeling of community to the neighborhoods. This unselfish \decoration of common property\ is \ita! for the restoration of communication between lonely individuals. R@sponding to a 4uestion concerning the value of present art movements. Kepes commented on their Continued on page 3 This Thursday evening at 8:30 in Memorial Chapel, Robert Bernhardt, 73, will hold his senior concert- recital, toward his degree in Fine Arts-Music. The community is cordially invited to attend. There is no admission jf!e.

l.t Page 2 r.ONCQRDIENSIS, Tuescfay, May }2, 1973 :·:· ·-. The· Federal Spending Clock As the conclusion to the series of articles Concordiensis has presented dealing with the fiscal situation of the United States with regard to financial aid status of colleges, we presen~ the following news release from the United States Chamber of Commerce. It is be.ing co-opted for our purposes as it undoubtedly was meant to deal with total financial systems. Yet the point is a valid one. Federal spending is running at a remarkable pace... just how does financial aid allocation fit into the total picture'? Perhaps this will present some perspective on the relatively tiny percentage of federal spending allocated for aid to colleges and universities. For the first time in history, there's a clock in Washington that shows the rate at which the Federal Gover-nment is spending 'l:our tax dollars. - It's called the federal Spending Clock. lt was bui.lt by and is located in the national headquarter~ of the Chamber of Commerce of the {) n ited States. approximately $250 billion. Co11tinued on pa_ge 3 · Le.tter Comparison of AttitUdes • , _ \Your first issue should be an your fellow students. , Contmued from page 1 .\ttainable goal which will provide \Leafltets clearly e){ert a maJor in. ~nother sit-in at the president's vou with your first victory. It may influence on the way . .students office this afternoon. Benezet is be as trite as the placement of a perceive · rea I ity. Proba.bly expected to present an new stop sign. Your efforts seventy-five percent of· all, administration reaction to the should begin on a positive note.\ students derive sixty percent of latest demands by students at 3:30 __ The Organizer's Manual their political awareness from in the Campus Center Assembly 3. Usc popular issues to - 'leaflets. Hall. The meeting is open-to tile ad-vance the Movement's .politics. The leaflet is ef the university community and will \Remember: once you organize u-ndergrom1d, which is to say, of provide an opportunity f()r people around something . as the Left. A smudgy -students and faculty to question C()mmonly agreed upon as-- mimeographc::d sheet is strongly Renezet on the spi.ral ing p()llution, then an · organized ass0ciated with ,powerlessness and promotion and tenure ;people is on_ the move. From a lack ?f funds. which is good, controversy. there it'; a 'Short and natural step becaus~ broad segme.nts of This is the text of the manual: to political pollution. to Pentagon- American society can identify \How to Manipulate People\ pollution.\ ~ Sau.l Alinsky with it.\ - James Simon Kunen, You might 'call it a consumer \'Pick clear, obvious issues;. and Columbia U. tadica;J protection manual -- about a alwavs look at the issues in light \A newspaper is a tool-- theirs product called \radical change'\ of a .long:-range movement for for managing the society, ours for formerlY called \revolution\ and radical change.'' 'fhe making the revolution,\-- David salesmen called \organizers\ Organizer's Manua·J Ransom, Peninsula Observer formerlv called \radical activists.·· 4. Confuse issues to justify (underground) edit0r Their product is an ideology. Move\ment actions. 8. Manipulate students into Their profit is power. Their victim ··All prisoners, we must ~ealize, conflict - and. keep them there. is you. Caveat emptor. me political prisoners. The ban~ If your demands are met, make Take it from a professional robber 1 talked to yesterday was more. D.em3nd thtl impossible. organizer: people and issues are only trying to get his \in the ways \W~ use the technique of there to be used. he thought were open to .him.\ -- demands. always pushing and \It's very hard to try to get Dave· Dellinger pushing on through demands, to across how an organizer works --r- \The most important thing an end where they have to give in being loose and free, not really we've got to convince people of or fight against the revolution.\ knowing himself what the issues about this trial (the Black Panther Dave Gi-lbert.· Radical are going to be_ He knows that in trial in New Haven), is that the Education Project life you go with the action and facts are irrelevant.\ Tom \The time is rip~~. ()T at least that you consciously look f<)r Havden ripening. The a.im of ea·ch action books and handles· that you can ,;What occurred in· Isla Vista should be to ripen it further. grab hold of, that you can twist \Vas without a doubt violent and Actions should focus as directly and .turn and pull and get the anarchistic. However, the actions as .possible on relevant easily reaction that is so important in which took place are necessary to understood targets. They should building a power organization. a nonviolent movement.\- U.C. be crvs.tal-clear in their People ask me ... 'How are you Santa B.arbara student impli.cations.\ -- Dave DeHinger going to start? What are you \Counter violence is different \Militants at Howard going to do?' How the hell do I from the violence of the military University sta~~ed a sit-in when know'! All I know is what every and the establishment.\ -· Angela the faculty rejet..ted some of their really good organizer knows - Davis demands, one of which was that vou react to all the action with a 5. If you can't find an issue .to the law faculty insist that the reflex: 'How do l use this to build use on people, phony one up. president and treasurer of the the- organization'!'\ Saul \Let me tell you. We university commit funds, Alinsky, Movement organizer manufactur-ed the issues. The regardless of availability, for all Get Students Where You Want l\nstitute for Defense Analysis is p.rojects demanded by the law Them in 8 Simple Steps nothing at Columbia. Just three students.\ I. Be a friendly campus professors. And the gym issue is Why? because the object is not organizer, Focus on freshmen. bull. It doesn't mean anything to reform; ifs revolution. \The more you organize anvhodv. 1 had never been to the \llniversity refor-m can only be around major, long-range goals, gy-m ·site before the a means to revolution, never a the more serious the problem of demonstrations began. I didn't revolutionary end in itself. Once natural attntzon among the e1·en know how to get there.\ you secure tj1c campus yc'tu have organi1ers. It can be met only' by Mark Rudd. former SDS leader, just he~:wn.\ Lee Felsenstein. conscious, organized attention to Columbia U. Berkeley Barh. former 'military the recruitment of freshmen from \Whether it be around police editor' the day they step on campus. hrutalitv, the educational system. \Let us make it perfectly clear Members of your groups should whet he; it -be against oppression that armed struggle is but one arrive earlv, for orientation week. of any kind you create an tactic of the fight it is not the with your .own antiorientation (or action, you create a blowout, md strategy. Revolutionary strategy During the present fiscal year, \Vhich began July l. 1972 and ends June 30, f97J. the federal (iovernment will spend disorientation) program. you see ltow fast those kids get consists in hui.lding the mass so . ......,Second Floor of Fox South Meetings, raps. leaflets. guided ~oliticized.\ - Corky Gonzales, struggle of revolutionary youth. tours of campus and community. Chicano movement leader in the factories. in the streets. in CONCORDIENSIS founded at Union Coll<!ge in 1877 Editor-in-Chief ................................................ AI Reisch R\ M' (f Managing Editors..................................... 1ta oran 1 Dave Strom News Editors ........................................ Phyllis Edelman Marty Sherman F Ed .t John Perlstein eat ures 1 or ....................................... . Investigations and Analysis .......................... Don Krone Associate Editor ....................................... Chuck Sa batt National Advertising ..................................... Steve Kelly Sports Editor ............ : ... .\ ....... · · Bart Mercer Subscriptions ......................................... Mik~ Bernstein Business Manager .................................. Chris O'Connor Photo Editors .................•........ Les Kernan Offlee Statr Phil A!cabcs Doug Carpenter Gary Lovett lllyria Puharich Dan Rothblum Jeff Weilburg Bill Erichson Robin Waring Bill West Concordiensis is pu~lished ev~ry :ruesday and _Friday .during the school year except-durmg exammat10n and vacation penods by the student body of Union College, Schenectady, N.Y. Nattonal Advertising Representative: National Educational .Advertising Service, Inc., NYC. Editorial office, Old Gym Hall, Umon College. P'ublication o(fice, The Jewish World P.ubllcatio~s, 771 . State Street, Schenectady, New York, J 2307 (346-2356). E_ntered 1.n ~he Schenectady post office as Second Class Mail Matter. Subscrrptlon rate: 20 cents a copy, 8 dollars a year deliverecl anywhere in the United States. . . Deadline for ali copy, which must be TYPED AND DOUBLE SPACED, is 7 p:in. on Monday and Thyrsday at the Concordiensis office,.located in Stoller Hall aboVe Old ChapeL The office phone number is 370~6155, but the office is in use only on Monday and Thursday nights. FOR Al.L EDITORIAL MATTERS CALL THE EDiTOR-IN-CHIEF AT 346-9396; FOR INFORMATION CALL MRS. MARRA IN THE· STUDENT ACTIVITIES OrFICE. AT 370-611~ . • :. ~....... ~- ... -- ·~-+~ social events, guerrilla theater 6. Student government can be the schools and in the universities should acquaint the newcomer used. Work you way in - and ... violent and non-violent. legal with an 'extracurricular activity' take over. and illegal it is tQ_e that t-he dean is not likely to \Can anything posttzve he coordination of many activities mention. Friendliness and gai.ned through student which makes for success.\ helpfulness, rather than heavy government? Apart from Communique from the politics, are in order at this stage. puhlicity. one thing it can be used Underground Let vour information center, f()r is ·mooey. Many student- \Do you know why the newsl~tter, and 'need' 1ine become ac-tivities funds are open for the demonstrations and protest the new students' resource for tips kinds of things we would like to movements succeeded? Because on professors, ways to juggle see on campus: certain speakers, we didn't play the rules of the requirements, information on films~ sponsoring conferences. game. Our movement wasn't birth controL abortions, M<Jney. without strings, is always organized democratically. We apartments. etc. Help the younger a help.\ - Carl Davidson. former kicked the Dow people off the students discover their own SDS organizer campus who had every right to be interests and talents; then \'lf our peo!Jle do happen to get there. It was our unrepressed consciously train them _for the elected as radicals ... then the intolerance <tnd thorough anti- various jobs of fbe ~ove)fll!nt.\ - sea.:ts Wdi1 ·,should be used as .. a permissiveness t'hat brought our The Organi7.e.r;lf Manua-l : ·focal point and sound'ing 6oard actions success.\ - Buffalo. N.Y. 2. Find out what's bugging for demonstrating the 'impotence SDS'er petlple - you c~n use it to get of student government from The Movement's gQal is them \involved.'; Start with little within. A seat should be seen as a POWER and power means power issues to attract lots of so.a.p-bo\• where our over people. supporters. · representati'!e ,oan stand. gaining _ 1966: \We are not here to do \We started with the rule~ 'No a kind of visibility and speaking good. We .are here to seize power. parties on Friday n iglit.' We t,) the student body as a whole, Don't ask us what we'll do with it demanded we be allowed to give a over the heads of the other when we get it. The democratic party on Friday night. Then we student politicians.\ Carl - process is a great thing, but you went to the rules on having Davidson : · :don't come to the democratic visifors In your room. then to the 7. Propagandize. Don't -process ·demo<;;ratically.\ price of rooms .~ .. · You have to overestimate the intelligence of - Nahaz Rogers. - Statement at give the issue a nitty-gritty ·Chicago organizing conferenqe of context, and the price of/o;oms, Vienna and Seville Spring Committee for . Independent visiting rules. parties are all things term abroad programs. for , Politicl!l Action, Jan. 15, 1966 that affect everybody in the dorm · 197 4 are beginning to take 1971: \The . traditional chant no matter what thejr- politics.\ -- shape now. See Prof. Warde in 'Wh:tt do we want'! \PEACE! John Kauffman, organizer, U. of . M()de-rn Lan-gpa;ges for When do· we want it'! NOW!' was Wisconsin inforna-ation and applications. ahandoned · t!iis., time ,;I'OUJ1d. ~'LI\t'TLE :yi'NNIES\ PIZZERIA 783 ALBANY :~r .. SCH'DY. Mon.- Tues. all you can eat $1;00 LASAGNA HOME MADE CALL f:GGPLANT BREA~_ 374<-5600 :t Moratorium f'rta.rch. San .Francisco. Nov. 6 •. 1971). \Contingents shouted. 'What do we wa'itt? POWER!\' - The I)ailv C.tliforniatt (lJ .C. Berke lev student· newspaper). Nov. 8. 19il (You, to.o, can be a, cog 'in ~omeone . : el_se~s . revolutionary· . · · ·machine.') , 1 I w in A

major of . all, of from f . the say, of trongly and ts of theirs for David into there, make ble. of and js, tQ in least ould ard heir that the the ds, all law not be tve In, ne he h. In e e t I ' I CQNCORDIEN$IS. Tuesday,_ May 22,· 1973. Page3 BLITH_ER. Contributi<ms to th\! Senior Class Gift to the College in honor of Kelvin Cook a.nd Edward Corbett we still beihg accepted .. Bring your forms to Mrs. MaHa in the Student Activities Office, Old Gym Hall. - * * *' •*. The Professor As A Scholar Series presents Prof. Ruth Stevenson (English) and· Pmf. Henry Butztd (Biology). They will discuss theii· research and how it relates to their role as teachers. They will speak at 7:30 p.m. in H.H.LL.. onWednesday, M;ry 23. * * * * The Union College Co-eds cqrd:ially invite the f~culty amJ students of Union College to a Bloc.k Dance in honor of the Union Men. (orne enjoy our hands and beer. It will be held at Library Plaza on Sa.turday night, May 26: * * * * The Blatchford Oratoricai Contest wiir be held on Tbutsday, May 24, at 4:30 p.m. in SS 115. Entrants mustpresent a speech on a topic of their own choice, no - I Dave's' M.ens Shop I . (d 453 Stsathe St. d ) . owntown c enecta. y 1 ~~~~~~~~\ The Cost of Uving $ .28 1 n1ouse 2. 00 1 dozen tissue culture tubes 6.00 100 disposable hypo- demlicneedles 7.00.1 gross of microscope slides 15.00 Food and care of 1.500 mice for 1 ilay 20~00 I dozen glass flasks for chemical studies 25.00 6 months' supply of rubber gloves 30.00 1 electric stirring motor 45.00 Steam pressure sterilizer 80.00 Laboratory flowmeter 90.00 Blood cell calculator 150.00 1 egg incubator 180.00 Cost of culture medium'for ma_ intaining human tissue transplant for 1 year 200.00 llead radiation shield 200.00 1 instrument sterilizer 300.00 Isotope scanner 350.00 Mouth rebreathing- ap- paratus and nebultzer 500.00 1 microvolt ammeter 600.00 Maintenanae of 1 cancer patient in a research bed for3 weeks 750.00 Scholarship to train l cytotechnologist 1,000.00 2.000 millicuries of radioactive iodine 1,500.00 50 units of h~man blood 2,800;00 1 x-ray tube 3,000.00 1 heart-lung machine 4,000.00 Doublebeamgrating spectrophotometer 6,500.00 For development (if radio- active drugs which will destroy cancer cells with· out banning normal cells 8,000.00 Gammaraycounter 10,000.00 1 wat<;r phantom for radiation dosage.studies 10,000.00 I half·gramofcobalt60 13,600.00 To identify industrial chemicals which may cause cancer in humans. 15,000.0p Preparative ultra!=entrifuge 42,000.00 lyear's sueply of Swiss· · Webster m1ee for 1 institute for use in chemo- therapy studies 50,000.00 1 electron microscope 70,000.00 For 1 grantto stu~y the role of honnones mcancer 125,000.00 l high-voltage, totaNmy radiation-instrument 750,000.00 Salary.support of 1 research professor for a lifetune 900,000.00 1QOpostdoctoraltraining fellowships for 1 year 11,600,000..00 Expenditures for 1 year for a major cancer - research center · When we fi~st started asking for money for cancer research, more mice were being cured than people. · · more than seveR minutes tn length. Jf, in the opinion of the judges. the quality of the speeches is sufficientiy high, cash pri?-es ·will · be awarded to first and second pface finishers. If you are interested in .pa1:ticipating, please give yo~1r ria me .t9 Prof, Tid march ·in SS 216 by noon on the day of the contest.· · * * * * Rio1ogy ·Picnic, Friday.' Ma'y 25, 4:30 p.m. at Girting Center. \A fantastic t·ime will be had by all,\ featuring, hot dogs, hamburgers, beer, soda and watermelon. Games and prizes will he a part of the festivities, including: Hutzel's world famous BOCCE and Styl~s·s Horseshoes. Price is $L50, children· under 12 half price. Admission can be paid in the biology office ~'nd must be paid by May 22. * * * * Hebrew I 0, 11 and 12 will be offered · during · the ·daytime thr<;:lugh :the evening . division·. Hebrew 10 is a prerequisite for Winter Term In IsraeL It will be offered fall ter.ni, either at 4:30 or 1:30. Hebrew 130. a Hebrew Literature Course will be offered fall term in the evenings. Prerequisite . is Hebrew 12 or perm1ss1on of the instructor. Don't forget . to register fo~ Hehrew. * * * * There will be a meeting for all those interested in Israel Term Abroad for next year. this Thursday at 4:30, in S.S. 117. All those interested are urged to attend. * * * * Hillel Friday Night Shabbat Services. will be held at 7:00 p.m. in Arts 202. ·All are welcome. * * * * ·~career Women in a· Man's World\ Tuesday, May 22, 7:.30 p.m .. Hale House Lower Lounge. Professor Sherry Penney and \;ancy Walbek wilt have as their guest~: Susanna Masters Miller. Employee of Relations 1\llanagement Program at G.E .. Betty Lou Bailey. Mechanical l·ngincer at (j_E_, and Shcrrv Bickerstaff. So~ial Worker in th~ Sehenectad~ Child Welfare Department. It will he an inJormal panel discussion: Admission is free and rclreshments. i·ill be served. I his is :i sequel to the first \Career Women in A Man's World.\ in which Professor~ Penn~ and Walhck prc:-.ented a lawyer. a doctor, and a television producer. ln the past meeting the \\omen ·discussed their careers. tr;1cing the background of how they had !Wilen to the present point in their mrcers. The women also discus~ed how they managed their family life in relation to their careers and the difricultil'S and connicts that they faced in this respect. Following each speaker was a lJUest ion-and-a ns\\'cr period. The format of the meeting on Tuesday. May 22 is expected to he similar, :tnd we\lwpe that all itlterested students will. a ttcnd. !IIIIUIHIIIIIIIHIUUIIfiiiiiUJIIIIIIIIIItlhiHIIHHIHIIIE i MIKE'S ·1 I ERIE BLVD •. I 5 = i HOT DOGS ~ - - i HAMBURGERS ~ - - E 5 : BEST STEAK = i SANDWICHES ·I ·= .. * * ~ i i 1135 Eire Blvd. § fiiMIIIIIIIIIIIIIiiHWIIUiiiUIIIHIIHIIuUIIIIIIIiiiiiiiF. ·~~~~'-'19.· . FOR L!QUQR · .. AND WINE· Try But today, there are over one-and·a-half-million happy, healthy people walking around who are living proof that ma~y canc~rs. can be cured. ~ · And as long as research . ~ -·Jake progress grows according to your ~ dollars, .we won't stop asking. · • • I Be<;auseour~o~tshave truly· . L1psfe1n S . . become the cost of hvmg. ' N • . · We want to wipe out cancer . · ·- 464 .State Street in your lifetime. Give to the · · ~- Downtown Sch __ e~ec~ady ~ American·Cancer SOciety. .. & : FR 4-1888 . '~<Q>~~~'-<0<.41 • i I ~ • ~ , ~ t ' A· Non~Dancer's View of Modern. Dance Workshop by PAUL DELFlN There's no way I can review this performance the way a review is \supposed\ to be written. Let me discredential myself right away: I know nothing about dance, technically. The people who do know dance are not sitting around writing reviews, they'.re dancing. l'm sure there are lots of folks who know about dance, or think they do, just like self-styled theater critics whose philosophizing and Hit-picking ad nauseum shows no real knowledge of the quality or the extent -of the work that goes into a performance. How's that for an oblique reference'! Of course, they could have gotten one of the dancers to write this, but then how could you get an objective review'?. He/she would be personally . involved {either friendly or hostilely) with the other dancers; too many factors would get in the say. Can an actor review the Mounteban~s? ~an a tenor review the Glee Club? Of COUfSe not. So here I am, and here we go. I saw Sat,u.rday ~.ight's nerformance of Spring Movements .'73, and .1 el)joyed' th~ whple, e~perience, A great deal of careful and caring work was evident in everything the dancers tackled; they obviously train their bodies and their sensitivities very scrupulously, and their approach to their work seemed for the most part happily serious, with the enjoyment and intensity that comes out of a sense of commitment to what they are doing and a sense of cohesion with each other. The good Gestalt was set for me right away, as we were walking into the theater. bv the sight of four of the dancer~ warming up on the stage floor. Mike Sherer, Vickie Bartell, Susie Lasker, and Carolyn Deitering were not only stretching and moving but also interacting with each other. with a good deal of spontaneity and humor. So I felt set up right away to enjoy what was to come. The program itself ran from the structured to the free. The fitst piece. \In Time Passing.\ opened on a beautifullv-lit silhouette of The linion College Coffeehouse will present Bob Bernhardt, Tom Parisi, Pau) Delfin, and Kevin Drayton on Friday night, May 25, at 8:00 in Old Chapel. This will be the final regular Coffeehouse of- the year, and also marks the fiiuJ Coffeehouse appearance for Bob, T9m, Paul, and Kevin. Admission will be SO~t and, as usual, coffee and donuts will be free. Please note the early starting time and g¢t there early for a good seat. Levrs Dave's' Mens_Sbop 453 State St. (downtown Schenectady) PROCTOR'S Wi.~ . STATJ ST .. SCHENECTADY CLINT EASTWOOD • ID ,.HIGH· ,:PlAINS ' . ~ '. . OR.IFTER\ three dancers (thank· ye~;~.; _Mark Koblenl!) and the music of Erik Satie. As choreographed_by ·Helga Prichard, it seemed to ine to be a pr~t~y straightforward balletic work. [t was visually interesting, an9 Jhe fiN~;: dancers showed a gooa sense of rhythm, but frankly I didn't really know what was going on. There was obviously a choice made to use one male and four females, but he was not used as a. rrian relating to the women, and I got a sense of something left unsaid. Emotionally, · it was ambiguous. Much clearer to me was Ms .. Prichard's superb danc-ing in her solo, \Eclipse.\ The title was apt: fairly free at first. she was soon totally under the control of Pril Smiley's rapid-fire eiectmnic music. At times it seem~d' as thou_gh she was being thrown aho~;~t, completely m\anipulated by the sounds (as opposed to· the Satie piece, in which the dancers were moving along with the music, not really by it). Her emotions and movements were always expressive of the music. The .sttg-ngest _ emotional statement of -the ·evening was made for rtle in \Georg~ Crumb's \Black Angels.\ Choreographed by Gail George and the dancers (Stu Baker, Ms. Bartell, John Collins, Sharon Fiscus, and Terrill Keeler), it combined stark visual primitive imagery with a constant sense of interaction and a deep emotional grasp of what was going on in the. music. The sense of ensemble ·~ark was· very tight, so that _evb'~ ;tfter the accidental injury of Mr. Baker and his replacement by Ms. George after an intermission, they were able to pick tip their former pitch almost immediately. The piece. ran the gam,ut of feelings from anger to jo/ fo curiosity to fear to warmth. and overall with a sense of wonder and spirituality. The dancers showed an enviable repertoire of movement. Luciano Berio's \Diorrtedea.\ chor\:ographed by Pat Castelli. was <1lso a balletic sort of wnrk. but I felt much more attuned to it than to \In Time Passing.\ Anne Bonvouloir. Amy Chodos. Hope Karlin, Ms. Lasker .. ana Claudia Schlosberg showed a real sensorv understanding of the flow of th~ work. which maoe it easier for me to then understand what was going on, and freed me to enjoy Spending Continued frQm page 2 Each day, ra.pidly changing digital figures across the top of the clock indicate the Federal Government is disbursing approximately $700 million in new expenditures. Everv 1.26 seconds a dial indicat~s the expenditure of another $10.000. the average annual income of· an American family. Every 12.6 seconds, a light flashes, indicating the Federal Government has spent another $100,000. And every two minutes and six seconds, a \beep\ is heard, signaling that the Federal Government has spent another million dollars. Federal spending has increased more than J.OOC,>(, in the last lO vears · from $I II billion in 1963 to $250 billion in 1973. The Federal. Government currently is spending more in 10 months than it spent between 1789 and 1942 - the first J53 years of .our. Republic. Fedend spending accounts currently for. 20,6% of the Gross National Product. Should the clock run at a faster or slo~er pace'? In other words. should tlae Federitl Government increase or reduce ~pending'?' Thill· choice is up to you. the National Chamber ; declares with this the visual imagery that was set up .. by the five dancers working as a unit. :'Alive,\ the improvisation hetween Ms. Deitering and Ms. George, was k i n d of disappointing. missed the spontaneity of the warm-up, and at times it seemed as though they were working senarately. I ilL _ .... . .. ·.ier .. \' of Children,\ was where it all came together: Lorca's text. Crumb\ music, Kohlenz' lighting effects. Charlie Steckler's easy~goir. wide-open set, fine group wor~ and two outstanding solo effort~ by Ricardo Smith (able to leap tall buildings with a single bound!') and Mike Sherer (whose strength, fluidity, and sense of humor were always in evidence). A spiritual story, a symbolic . celebration; it was nice to be able to sit back and be taken along on a mystical joyride. And that, along with the emotional honesty that was certainly present, is all that I can really ask for from a group of performers. The Modern Dance Workshop delivered. I liked theiJl. \mr youse needn't be so spry 1 concernin questions arty,\ says e. e. cummings and me. This has been my view, not my review. All indignant, cynical, and/ or hostile replies should by typed, signed, and sent to AI Reisch c j o this newspaper. as he is looking for interesting things to print. The Concordiensis survey of Student Life at Union, the first of an annual series, is now in full swing. Our pollsters will have contacted resident advisors and' or fraternity presidents regarding members of their living units who have been randomly ·selected to participate in the survey by the middle of this week. We ask that hoth those individuals handling survey forms and those individuals who have been chosen to complete fhe forms take this seriously. A lot of time has gone into the formulation of the questionnaire employed and in order for that time to he useful it is essential that we obtain a high rate of response on the questionnaires. All too often members of the community desire to know the feelings of students on an issue only to find that there is really no way of determining those feelings. Although this survey does not prete,nd to be the gospel. or even absolutely representative, we feel that it is as valid a survey as can he arrived at in a situation as complex as the one at Union. Finally. we ask that a minimum of delay take place in returning the questionnaires, as we find ourselves in a bit of a time hind. New Art Continued from page 1 shortcomings. Happenings, Op and Pop Art though they do broaden the range -of human participation in art, are (along with conceptual art experiences) \short-circuited\ events. Thev \don't touch the transformatio~ of the environment.\ Gyorgy Kepes envisions a new art form in which the artist will assume greater responsibility for· the bt;tterment of society. A good nrtist he concluded. should neglect nothing and incorporate everything in his work. LeVfS recommendation: Let you.r Dave's Mens Shop Congressman and Senators know 453 State St. your views. ~- , _ .,~..,_· .:.;C d;;.;;o;.ow_;n.;..t_ow ..... n_S_c_h_en_e_c_ta..;.d.::.Y;..) ..... •

Page4 TuesdaJ!, May 22, 1973 Baseball Wins Firs.t Round Of ECAC \ by BART MERCER The Union College Bc~seball squad won their first round game versus Oswego State Saturdav but due to the rain. they f~und themselves without an opponent in the finals. In the ECAC tournameNt held in Oswego, the rain washed· out the other semifinal game between R .. P.I. and Hartwick. players together. Whatever happens though. the Baseha.ll team should he congratwlated on an excellent season with a temporarily final record of 12-4. It is hoped though that they will still have a shot at the ECAC Championship for Upstate New York and finish their season a notch higher. UNION OWSWE.GO ABRHRBI ABRHRRI W'Brook, ss 5 I 2 ·O Pol't~sso, ss 4 0 1 o QtJirk, cf 5 0 2 0 Hancock, If 3 0 0 0 Michell, 2b 3 1 1·0 E\urldPr. 2b 5 0 I 0 ,1\·rons, If 3 o 1 2 1\ll~>n. rf d 0 n 0 wm:md~l, lb 4 o 0 ·o Haq'ty. cf 3 o n 0 B'·Lnvo.. rf 4 0 0 D D~'fano, J() 3 0 I 0 Ber'dl.3b JOOOHo'll,c 4010 L~aa, c, 3 0 l 0 Schell, lb J 0 1 0 Ur'el, p 3 o o o 'Wic!rtck\ P 3 o 1 o Lewis, ph 1 0 0 Q 'TOLTALS O~WI'!JO , ... , .... , ,. • ., • • 0~0 ·000 000--0 Uni<>n .. , .. • .. • •. .. .. • .. . M 001 0000 The Dutchmen, behind Joe U rshel's six-hitter, cruised to a 2-0 victory. Joe raised his record to 5 and 0 for the season as he was nipped for only six singles. Dartmouth Crushes Wellesley College economics professor Marshall I. Goldman will discuss ••zero Economic Growth for Nations\ on Tuesday, May 22. Union scored all the runs it needed in the fifth inning off losing pitcher Glen Widrick. Ron Westbrook and Bdb Mitchell connected for singles which brought Rick Arons to the plate. Rick smashed a double. to left which brought in both of the runners and all the runs t·hat Union needed for the victory. Union Lacrosse, 13-5 The talk,· sponsored by Union's department of economics, is set for 8 P.M. in , the auditorium- of the Social Sciences Building and is open free to the public. Despite the shutout, Urshel had to work his way out of two bases- loaded jams in the last few innings. With two out in the ninth and the tying run at the plate with a man on second, Gene Quirk hauled in a long fly ball to right by FRANCESCO ISGRO · · field to bring an end to the game. The Union College Lacrosse Team eX'hibited one of its best performances of the season last Saturday as host to Dartmouth. The Garnet going in the contest with a 5-6 record needed badly a victory to achieve the .500 marL In what could be labeled a \flawless hair' the Dutchmen were trailing by a point 4-3. The fast and swift plays of the Big Green Machine in the second half. caught the Garnets by surprise as they were outscored 9- 2. . . Today at noon, it was to be decided whether or not the RPI vs. H.artwick and consequently the final game will be played. Both the other schools have finals corrii'ng up this week and could run into problems getting. all their About '-.300 fans showed up to see the seasorl's last game, and Dartmouth also brought its own contingent. As one of the fans from Dartmciilth put it, \this is more t-han a lacrosse match. You .. ,: ,_·f, .! Don Ward, Saturday's star. FOOTBALL PLAYERS! Football meeting to be held May 31 in the Block U Room· for prospective players. If you cannot attend see Coach Everling. Also see him to find out what time it is. •• 1 Dave's Mens Shop 453 State St. (downtown Schenectady) DARI TREAT \It'll knock your socks off!\ 2049 VAN VRANKEN Boulevard Diner CHARCOAL STEAKS SEAF.OOD HAMBURGERS TOTALLY REMODELED WEEKDAYS FRI.& SAT. SUNDAY <i A.M.-I A.M. 24 HOURS 8 A.M.-I A.M. know both institutions are smaH. intellectuals and have many things in commen.\ The threatening reply which he received convinced him not to go any further. But it was indeed a hell of a game, and neither team relaxed for a moment. Union had the first tally coming from Jerry Dwyer on an assist from Senior Dennis DeMuth. It was the lone goal of the period. Dennis Walker failed to tally about 4 times and goalie AI Ritchie saved 6 shots. Freshman Bruce Davis shot one in but seconds before time had run out. An excellent defense led by sophomore Mike Garone made a big djfferenc_e 'iD the seGon4 period. Freshman Don Ward gave the Garnet a 2 point lead as he tallied on an assist from Grossman with I I :18 remaining before the end of the half. With 2 Garnets on the penalty box, the Dartmouth laxmen were able to tally behind the effort of Scott Anderson. rorty seconds afterwards Don Ward came with another hig one on another assist from Grossman. From the players· bench an unidentified coach yelled \That's the way to stick it around the hom.\ With ahout 6 minutes left Dartmouth came right back and scored three times to close the half with a 4-3 advantage. The Big Green Machine kept its impressive comeback as they scored the first three goals of the stanza. An attempt to score by Bob Grabo failed early in the period. It was Captain Stan White, who brought the Garnet back up in the scoreboard on an assist from Jim Thompson. Senior Mike Fine, failed to tally in an attempt late in the period. The Fourth period, was again dominated by Dartmouth's fast break plays, and the Garnet were just unable to cope with them. Sophomore Robert Grossman. who throughout the season has had more assists than tallies, fed the bail to Walker who scored hi~~ 42nd and final goa·l of the season. Dartmouth tallied three more times. bringing the finar outcome 13-5 in its favor. Goalie AI Ritchie who put in an outstanding effort. had 15 saves for the Gamet. while his counterpart had 13. The Dutchmen closed their season with a 5-7 record. A respectable one considering the youthfulness of the team. This can he seen in the fact that onlv 6 seniors graduate out of a rosier of over 25 players. Prof. Goldma9 is a specialist in the So-viet economy and the economics of pollution, and is. the . author of several books and articles in that area. His. most recent books au ... Eooloiy an 1. Economics: . Controlling Pollution in the 1o·s\ and \The Spons of .Proflress: Environmental Pollution in the Scniet Union, .. · both pu~lished last year. He is also consulting . editor for the journ·aJs ••current History'; and \'·Env Affairs ... ~<0\>·~ Purity Isabella s /'a\ ~&~ § \SI PHARMACY, INC. l ~ Accuracy .. 527 Union St. Schenectady N.Y. § § Ph. 370-2300 § § WELCOME § S. UNION STUDENTS ~ . ~<.Q>~<b><Q><.Q>~<Q><V>t<::i ~~eome forth into the light of thi~~~ .. · let nature be vour ~her.- j tl/ Will 1om Wordsworth We have, and that's why we go through all the trouble to make a natural beer A beer without additives or chemical preservatives. For a natural Rheingold taste you just can't find in other beers. f ;- { •' ~ ; •. : \ J• Jt ·~~-' • : I v 5 li ( I r r• c f: I c s F ·Jl 11 it ~1 tl ir a a 0 c fi ·n g• n st i11 fi. tt 2: a1 bl he Ol a1 j( c E• th he hl in SL in cc m d( M St Tl 0 ta vi

•mics: I man omic on· by of f •. in 1cial •pen a list the ~d is. IOkS His. au: lies: the of ttal riet last :ing a.Js 1nd v ol. 102, No. 50 -founded at -Union Coll~ge In 1877 ,_ - ·- .. ·.. -- • t Friday, May 25, t973 20eent5 Committee Appointments: Decisions Explained by MARK YOUNG with the function and purpose of committee members. This There apparently has been their respective committee. Bel0w nomination will be submitted to some question as to -the present is detailed the committee situation the Steering Committee at their status of those committees ·on as nominations and appointments meeting on Monday, May 28. which students are represented for the coming year now stand Honors and Fellowships here at Union. Student and, basically, what has yet to Committee: Nominations of Lois appoil}tments to committees run happen. · . Brustman and John Perlstein for a one-year term, commencing At the. Steering Committee were not approved by the with the beginning of the meeting of Monday, May 14, Steering ~ommittee on Monday, academic year. The Student · 1973, nominations to twenty-three May 14, because there is place for Committee on Committees is committees were submitted by the four students on this committee empowered 'only to recomritend Student Committee on and only two nominations were and nominate students for Committees for approval. Twenty submitted. The nominations were pos1tion·s on · those school of these were approved (these returned to the Committee on committees that are so str:uctured committees are listed below); four Committees, and it was asked as to allow student committees were returned to the that four non;1inations be representation. Student Committee ort C::ommittees for submitted at a later date. Four appointments tQ these committees various reasons. This is what is student nominations to the are l)Ot official until the Steering happening with these four Honors and Fel1owships If you have picked Up a phone recently and heard earnest conversation about money you have not been witness to an expansion of Watergate, you kave simply overheard a volunteer participating in the alumni phonothon that is aimed at making this year's -Cl:nnual fund a successful Committee has approved the committees: Committee, including the above nominations as submitted by the Discipline Committee: As of two names, will be submitted to Student Committee on the most recent Steering the Steerin-gCommitteeattheir Committees. At the time of their Committee meeting, on Tuesday, meeting on May 28. official appointment to a May 15, 1973, the Constitution is Housing Committee: The All- committee, students are invited to interpreted as directing the College Senate, at its meeting on contact their committee chairman Steering Committee to elect, Tuesday, May I, decided not to and ask that they be allowed to sit among .them s e I v e s, o n e take any action on proposals in on meetings until their term representative from each class to concerning , student housing, begins, in order that they may each <.....of both the Discipline because of the appointment of a begin · familiarizing themselves - Committee and the Student new Dean of Students, Mark endeavor. We wish them the best of luck. · photo by Hershel Raff Budget and Priorities Report by LAUREN GORDON The J 972~1973 report of the Budget and Priorities Committee will be presented to .the College Senate at the earliest date~· most likely next Thursday's session. (This budget is approximately 10.5. million dollars.) This report represents .the research, recommendations, and priorities classifications of this student- faculty-administration committee. It is divided into four major categories: Priorities for Spending, Priorities for Saving, Priorities for Generating New Revenue, and further Recommendations. The major priorities for increasing funds (Spending) were student aid. faculty and staff salaries and compensation, and the library book budget. The increase in student aid is $94,000, a 33% increase over last year's allocations. It is not the function of the Budget and Priorities Committee to decide to whom financial aid goes; it is therefore ·not known how these funds are going to be distributed for the next school year. Faculty and construction represented 1'0% of were three specific proposals: 'the budget and increased to 15% L) Use a marginal amount of irt 1972-73. In '73-74 this will go capital gains to aid current fund hack down to 14.5%, as work will revenues. This is too complex an be completed · but 'loan·s and - 'issue to go into· here, but what interest must continue to be paid can be said is that this has not yet hack. What often happens is that been decided upon. an alumnus will offer to 2.) Reorientation of fund- contribute a certain amount of raising towards \human projects\ fu~ds for a project if matched by (lectures cha:irs). the . .Cdllege. Many. times, because 3.) 111creasing tuition. the college doesn't have available Tuition will be raised II%, fullds it must look elsewhere to from $2700 to $3000, for next meet the offer, and then year. From the report: presen·t · eventually pay the money back to plans are to try to avoid a tuition the lendee. raise for 1974-75. ' 2. Shrink the College athletic The fourth section of the report, deficit. It was found necessary to d e a It w it h further_ increase the athletic allotment by recorqmendations. These included 5o/o. One subcommittee the need for improvement in recommendation was to drop a campus lighting, centrex phones major sport. This will be re- for R.A.'s, a Simplex unilock examined by the Committee next system for all dormitory rooms, a year for the '74-75 budget. (Of 24•hour Information Center; a cottrse, like all else cited, this will student patrol, and 24~hour be a matter of public record In a .guards. The total cost of these· very 'short time.) proposals would be $157,000. 3 . B a I an c e Au x iIi a r y What is d~finitely recommended · Enterprises Budget. This area as a top priority is a new lighting iTiclUdes the Girling Center and system f9r the North College- College-owned, off-campus Ri.~hmond House area; money for faculty housing. According to thts ($2,000) could be taken from P.r()f. McNamara, funds for .the the lecture and concert budget, Center will be reduced from recommended the committee. Committee on Committees for the Smith, effective July 1. Therefore, coming year. The the proposal from the ad hoc unconstitutionality of the most Committee on Housing to form a recent referendum, as an Housing Board was never amendment to the Constitution, introduced in the Senate. The .does not empower the Committee Committee on Committees has on Committees to nominate chosen, at this time, not to submit candidates for the Discipline to the Steering Committee any Commiltee. The four students nominations to a Housing that were nominated to the Committee. The Committee. ofi Discipline Committee (Pat Committees will solicit Bohen, Joel Buckberg, Dave applications for such a Heilberg, and Tom Watts) are committee, pending approval by reeeiving primary consideration the All-College Senate of a for nomination to this committee, proposal to form a Housing pending amendment to the Board. Constitution that will allow The Committee on Committees Discipline Committee members to will- submit for approvlfl be nominated and appointed. nominations to the following This amendment is expected S()me committees at the Steering time this coming fall term. Committee meeting on May 28: Elections Committee: Athletics Committee Nominations of Phil Alcabes, Comprehensive Education John Dolan, Harry Lessin, and Board . Steve Wayne were approved and Elections Committee (chairman appointed to the Elections only) Committee at the Monday, May Honors and Fellowships 14 meeting of the Steering.· Committee Committee. - However, because Liaison and Governance John Dolan was recently elected · Committee one of the class of 1975_ Salaries, Promotions, and representatives to the Steering Tenures Committee Committee, his nomination as Special Events Committee - chairman of the Elections Concerts Committee was returned to the Honorary Degrees Committee on Committees for Lectures nomination of a chairman from Religious Activities among the remaining three The Steering Committee, at the ·staff salary and compensation is increased 6% from last year's figures. Finally. the \C' part of the library budget is increased 22% This- is the books, supplies, and equipment part of the library budget. The three priorities listed here, it was felt by the committee, ought to be dealt with before anything else. However, Professor John McNamara, chairman of the Committee (and chairman of the Economics Department) cautions that there is some doubt about how much good the increases will have, due to inflation and the increase ·of the College's tuition. $75,000 to $50,000 for the '73-74 .budget. Rents on College-owned housing of the above nature will be raised 9%, in accordance with Federal guidelines. Students Arrested meeting on May 14, approve~;! appointments to the following committees~ For the names of the students appointed, see the minutes of that meeting which were distributed to every resident advisor on campus. The Committee next reports on suggestions for cutting the budget in certain areas .. I. Finance furth~r building completely. At the present time major construction work is being done on Schaeffer _Library, and Memorial l='ieldhouse, and the Student Center has just opened. These projects are essential to the Collegel at the same time they are taking away funds from other vital areas. In 1966-67 4_ Cut back on maintenance o-f the physical plant. Proposals such as overtime and data controls, seasonal contractors, and a suggestion-a ward system are under current consideration by the Provost, and Cohtmller of the College. 5. Eliminate certain athletic programs and cut back on current funds for the library. As noted before., this will not be the case. 6. Increase the student-faculty ratio, increase the size of the student body, decrease- student services. From the repory: For '73·74 the student faculty ratio, the size of the student body, and student services wiH all remain virtually the same as for '72-73. Th~ third part of the report consists of Priorities for generating new revenues. There by AL REISCll Thursday, 7:00 P.M. Two Union College students were arrested Tuesday between five and five-thirty P.M. in their dormitory room on drug-related charges. The arrest was made by plainclothes officers of the New York State .Police, Troop D, located in Loudonville. The two students left without any skirmish, according to an eyewitness. School officials were not informed of the arrest by the State Police, either before or after it occurred. The students appeared before .Judge Strobel of the Police Court Wednesday _morning and were each charged with two counts of felony and one misdemeanor. The judge adjourned the proceedings until Frida,y mornihg. It is assumed that the charges will be •J'estated arid the amount of bail set at this time'. The reason tor the postponement was to allow the . students the right to meet with attorheys. After the arrest the students were brought to Loudonville and booked, then taken to the Schenectady County Jail on Nott Terrace where they remain as of this time. The Co liege plans no disciplinary action until civil proceedings have been concluded-:- At that time the students will be brought before the Discipline Committee. 1'he headline in Tuesd:ats ! CONCORDIENSIS should have read: Union Charged with Sex Discrimination? Not Union charged with Sex · Discrimination. Sorry. . J.A,D.S. Academic Opportunities Admissions Budget and Priorities College Center Computer Science Curricular Affairs Development Educational Innovation Elections (pending approval of chairman) Environment Fina11cial Aid Foreign Students Graduate Studies Library Social Standing of Students Studellt Life Studies Abroad Tax Upward Bound

Marshall I. Goldman, professor of economics at Wellesley ·, College, gave a lecture ·()n Tuesday night in SSO 16 on wh~t ·was described as the \Zero (the earth) taster than it can be replaced. He had no solutions to give, only to delineate- the . problem. He proceeded to examine the various eoo·noroic sy.stems to see if any: !)n~:; wai mGre concemed with !;laring for the environment than another.' The Soviets, as their revolution ended, saw that tlleir need was to build a strong military and strong production. The Soviets were the first to becqme obsessed. with growth. Ten years ago,when Khrushchev to~red the U.S., he degraded the U.S. for the miles of freeways and cars it had; Russia would never have this .. Today, on the other hand, they .boast of the Fiiit I)lant built Of! the Volga as an example of ever-increasing growth. Prof. Gold!llan says the Soviets want cars for the· same reason he wanted a car when he was young and lonely. The Soviets are the new bourgeoisie, and through their system of incentives to managers, their inflexible pricing syst~m. and an ideology that labor is the source of all values and that resources are free, they have despoiled the Soviet environment to an enormous degree' and have wasted vast resQurces. industrializ.ation, to me tme'r things. Brazil is just one example. At the environmental conference held last yeat at Helsinki, Brazil said that if the wealthy countries don't want the smoke,. dirt, and· other polluti()n from their factories; Brazil will be glad to take their factories off their h\lnQs. The wealthy countries til rough the World·· Bank a·nd other loa.n agencies are forcing ur~derdeveloped countries to equip new factorie~ wirh pollution d~vices, forcing the prices up ro~ IS% and out of the competitive market. They see environmental protection as a clear plot of the industrial countries to keep them down. Two members of the cast of Callgula, in rehearsal; · photo by Kohel· Haber Caligula Awakenings are seldom gentle. They tend to be violent and oppressive, painful to the . awakener and those around him. 'f.he awakener is changed,. a~d that changes his· relationships to others, which ·in turn changes them. All are forced to re-adapt. Caligula is a play written by Albert Camus about an awakening. Set. in pre-Christian Rome, the young emperor Caligula is shocked into the awareness that ideals are man- made, that they are rationalizations in the face of the terrifying reality of life itself. Caligula's awakening would cause but a tiny ripple in history were he not Emperor of Rome, the most powerful man in the world. With all the energy of youth and the passion of broken idealism, Caligula unleashes his nihilistic rage upon the people of Rome. He sees that they are asleep, lost in their thoughts, and he is determined to use all the power of his position to awaken Peace, The Man with the Flower in his Moutlt, and Ondine, as well as Schenectady Civic Playhouse productions of Who's Afraid of Virginia Woolf, and. DracuiQ. ln addition, he directed the Mountebanks' production of A Slight Ache, and is currently teaching mime at the Schenectady Museum. Also starring are Nancy Adams, who has r:ecently taught local yoga'tlasses, Steve Kronish, who starred inA Slight Ache and · Ondin.e a~d. played in JB, and Alan Peters, who played in JB. Calig~la Is direCted by Paolo Ceraito, who last year directed · The Man with the Flower in His Mouth. _Caligula is .R~~s~nted by the Union College ·M-ountebanks in N ott Memorial Theatre. Performances will be at 8:00 P.M., Tuesday, -May 29 through Saturday, June 2. Tickets .are $2 general admission, and are fre~ t9 Union students. For reservations please call the box office at 3}0- - ·6153. ' Economic. Growth Controvtlrcsy.\. The; ~,·l¢cture was very· ·.well Ftttetld~d. . as both students, . . fac:ulty, and members of tlte community listened as Professor Goldman explained that aU the.. countries of the· world are obsessed with increasing their I growth. l'he world's obsession with increasing its economic growth is depleting the Earth's resources and · ravaging its environment at an ever- quickening pace; so much so that in the not too. distant future aU our resources will be exhausted. Marshall Goldman's lecture could 'be compared to the gypsy who · reads your palm and tells you that yourre ·going to- die tomorroW;. but in such a. manner t,hat you feel good about hearing it. It was truly an excellent and enjoyable lecture. Opening the lecture, Professor Goldman told us he was going to make us. as depressed, as he already- was. Growth today is the world's opiate. The world is like the cigarette smoker, as P-rot Goldman explained it, who is told that if he continues smoking he will die ten to fifteen years earlier, but contilmes to smoke. Growth · is the concern of ·every system of the world and every type of country; the communists'_ planned economy or the capitalists' west, developed .or · undevelop~d ed·u~tries.'·\ · D~scrlbing.; it · :J·n economic· ;:term$, ~'for the -g()o(i capitalists,\ he stated that .the world. is digging into its capital The . capitalist system which wants profits and only finds them in increasing growth, are just as bad a{ the Soviets in their lack of respect for the environment and its resources .. The underdeveloped countries who as yet nave not destroyed {heir · fesottrces, are just waiting for tne fotk, so that they can dig in. Their resources as they see it, are their ticket to Therefore, no system, and no country i.fi the world, is concerned with limiting its· growth; no country; that is, except Tanzania, which instituted a program to keep the people on the farms .. But as Prof. Goldman says, \How are you goin' to keep 'em down on the farm after they've seen Uganda?\ The world is depleting its resources and no · one is concerned . with limiting his growth. We are constantly using our resources, this is true, but shouldn't we try and slow down our ·consu~ption so that we can last longer? Should we n.ot let future g~nerations survive? Possibly future generations will have a solution. Our golden age ofconsumption has passed: As prices on gas, oil, electricity, air, and water begin to increase we will not just leave the light on, let the water boil, let tbe water run. A Union student in the audience said to Prof. Goldman: · them. They are just as determined to remain entrenched in their mediocrity, and the confrontations that result are hilarious and brutal. What's A Nice Girl Like Vott. • • • \Yoa made me feel just, well, yuk.'~ Prof. Goldman answered, \I hav.e something for everyone.\ He :had brought us our doom and the audience truly enjoy.ed it. Tom Hord is Caligula. He has starred in many recent Mountebanks plays, including JB, by ILLYRIA PUHARICJI and LESLIE HERMAN Amid an infoTmal discussion oi women . and employment· run CONCORDIENSIS founded at Union College in 1877 Editor-in-Chief.. .............................................. AI Reisch Managing Editors ..................................... Rita Morandi Dave Strom News Editors ........... ~ .... , ....................... Phyllis Edelman Marty Sherman Features Editor ........................................ John Perlstein Investigations and Analysis .......................... Do:q Krone Associate Editor ....................................... Chuck Sabatt National Advertising ............................ , ...... :Steve Kelly Sports Editor ............• \ .......... · Bart Mercer Subscnpuons ......................................... Mike Bernstein Business Manager. .................................. C~1s O'Connor Photo Editors .......................... Les Kernan · . onkeStd Phil Alcabes Doug Carpenter Gary Lovett lllyria Puharich Dan Rothblum Jeff Weilburg Bill Erichson Robin Waring Bill West Concordiensis is published every Tuesday and Friday during the school year except during examination and vacation periods by the student body of Union College, Schenectady, N.Y. National Advertising Representative: National Educational Advertising Service, Inc., NYC. Editorial office, Old Gym Hall, Union College. P'ublication office, The Jewish World Publications, 77l State Street, Schenectady, New York, 12307 (346-2356). Entered in the Schenectady post office as Second Class Mail Matter. Subscription rate: 20 cents a copy, 8 dollars a year dehvered anywhere in the United States. Deadline for all copy, which must be TYPED AND DOUBLE SPACED, is 7 p.m. on Monday and Thu'rsday at the Concordiensis office, located in Stoller Hall above Old Chapel. The office phone number is 370-6155, but the office is in use only on Monday and Thursday nights. FOR ALL EDITORIAL_ MATTERS CALL THE EDiTOR-IN-CHIEF AT 346-9396; FOR INFORMATION. CALL MRS. MARRA IN THE~ STUDENT ACTIVITIES QFFI~E AT 370-6118. many telling undercurrents, often reVealing more about deep-set attitudes than the sur!ace conversation. It is just these subtle, seemingly trivial noti<ms which are of enormous significance in considering the extent and impact of sex discrimination. Prevailing conceptions of \appropriate\ sex role behavior are more powerful· than legal restrictions. Three women in professional positions, Susanna Miller of the Employee Relations Management Program at G.E., Betty Lou, Bailey, mechanical engineer at G.E., and Sherry Bickerstaff, social worker, spoke Tuesday evening in a panel discussion entitled \Career Women in a Man's World.\ A generally enlightened and optimistic picture was described; all three expressed great satisfaction in their choice of unconventional women's roles. The panelists described few problems of formal discrimination in employment practices, salaries, or benefits; the greatest barrier appears to be common assumptions of proper feminine behavior. It is the women's commitment to careers is often viewed with skepticis~ by· employers; a general assumption is made that any normal woman's first pFiorities are husband, family, and home. This imposition of values creates difficulties for the woman who chooses an alternate route: \I've seriously thought that if I had it to do over again l would try being secretly married·. Employers now cvnsider me immobile and less involved with my work,\ (Ms. rvtiller). It is just the prevalence of such sentiments \which allows employers-leeway with women (as ill the case of a university professor who was asked in· a job · Continued on p_ag~ 3 .DARI TREET ult'll kno~k your socks off!\ Hebrew I 0, II and 12 will be offered during the daytime through the evening division. Hebrew I 0 is a prerequisite for Winter Term In Israel. It will be offered fall term, either at 4:30 or 1:30. Hebrew 130, a Hebr~\' Literature Course will be offeree fall term in the evenings Prerequisite is Hebrew 12 0• permission of the instructor. Don't forget to register for Hebrew. * * * * Hillel Friday Night Shabbat Services, will be held at 7:00p.m. in Arts 202. All are weJcome. PROCTOR'S WJ~5: STAT! ST.. SGHENEC1ADY CtiNT EASTWOOD • 1n existence of these implicitly 2049 y AN VRANKEN \ accepted beliefs which effectively ~==~;;;~~;;;;:;:=~=: hinders consent for changing r roles. Minor occurrences point up social and psychological obstacles. In applying for a 'managerial position, Ms. Miller was informed that a company did not wish to invest the time and money necessary to put a woman . through the training program. When asked for further explanation, the interviewer re.sponded incredulously; \Because ·ladies get pregnant!\ Incidence of similar stereotyping was echoed by the other two panelists. The sincerity of tevrs • Dave's' Mens Shop 453 State St. (downtoW!l Schenectady). . ..... \HIGH PLAINS ·DRIFTER\ . •'.UTTLE VINNIE&\ PIZZERIA JSJ AL:BI\.NY ST .• StH'DY. . Mon.- Tues. all you can l)at $1.00 LASAGNA RGME MADE (:ALL EGGPLANT iBEAD 374-5600

4,J3 4.26 4.52 4.oo 3,.75 4,.35 4.(1o 3.83 3.85 4,20 3,8Q 4,14 4,72 3,73 4.16 3,80 3.89 4,73 3.64 4.oo 4.78 3,41 3.76 4.14 4.85 4.16 4.Q4 4,47 4.26 4,14 4,34 s.oo 4,04 4,50 4.53 4,05 4.10 4,55 3.60 N$E CONCORDIENSIS, Fri.f/lly, May 25, 1973 Page3 '• '· T. YET RELEASED Hutzel, Ms. Stevenson As Scholars .. Class of '77. Examined by PHYLLIS EDELMAN In the final series ()[ the \Professor as a Scholar,\ Prof. Ruth Stevenson of the English Department and Prof. Henry Butzel of the Biology Department spoke to an informal group about the relationship between their research and teaching. whiph is Prof. Stevenson's second thought on the subject. Finally, Prof. Stevenson feels there is a culmination of one's work where, through \osrriosls;-- tfiere - ·ts absorption of one's new philosophies which have emerged through research and thought. . Come this fall, Union's Class of 1977 will b(;! able to contribute its ''diversity\ to the college community . .In commenting that this year's applicants have been an ''interesting group\ to work with, J.'D ... Shupe, Director of Admissions, notes that \there are many ot.itstanding people - fine musicians and leaders\ who offer more than just academic competence. Also dis~i~ctiv.e of this group was that, unlike applicants of about five years ago, they took ''more time to investigate the · colleges\ ana thus, \knew what they were looking for.\ For the Class of 1977, the total number of .'applicants is 2, 103 (1,510 men, 593 women) of which I ,388 have been admitted (94·1 men, 447 women). 541 have enrolled (363 men, 178 women). However, Mr. Shupe observes that all of the 541 enrolled are not expected to r.egister in September, due to an \historic loss of about 30 people\ over the summer. The primary reason for ' by JUNE KANAGAKI this loss is students are taken off the waiting lists at the Ivy League schools. Another factor includes the \deferred entry\ wheFeby the student decides to wait one year before matriculating in order to wo\rk or traveL There are also -financial considerations where it is the \family decision that they cannot afford coHege or rnust attend a less expensive one.\ Therefore, it is anticipated that approximately 5H) students will be here in the freshman cJas& in September. While Mr. Shupe stresses that \the Admissions Committee places little emphasis on .the applicants's major when making its decision, the intended majors of the incoming freshmen indicate \very little difference irt this year's distribution\ as compared to last· year's group. The general major of .. pre-.med\ contains the largest number from the Class of 1977, with 59. Biology is second with 46, and political science has attracted 45. When asked to evaluate the Glee Club • 10 NYC Last Wednesday evening the Union College Glee Club performed at Alice Tully Hall,in New York City. The concert, entitled \M\lsic for Male Voices and Mezzo-soprano,\ featured Prof. Hugh Allen Wilson as conductor and soloist Betty Allen of national operatic fame. The Glee Club offered an exceptional, superb, if not highly professional selection of music ranging from early liturgical to early American' folk and modern Persichetti. Ms. Allen, although she had a mild case of bronchitis, displayed her exqliisite talent as solist in the three pieces she sang. New York Times, ·critic Raymond Ericson referred to the Glee Club perforni~mce and Prof. Wilson's direction as \expert and musicianly... without question.\ Keith Kibler again did an outstaq~ing job as bass soloist and was noted by Ericson as \a promis~P,g bass.\ Eric Herbst and Nicholas Coward, an up-and- corriihg bass soloist in our Glee Club, also offered fine performances. This brilliant concert was well-received by the audience, which included many Union alumni and friends. All in all, it was one of the group's most memorable and shining evenings. BLITHER Contributions to the Senior Class Gift to the College in honor of Kelvin Cook and Edward . Corbett are still being accepted. Bring your forms to Mrs. Marra in the Student Activities Office, Old Gym Hall. * * * * Dance at the College Center, Friday nite, May 25, from 8:30 to 12, with the Edward Fox Blues Band. Beer imd boogie mus'ic wi!I be provided free of charge!!!!! * * * * The Political Forum presents \Watergate a panel discussion with Professors Anderso& ' (discussing the legal aspect), · Daniels (an American viewpoint), Nichols (mond aspects), Tidmarch (party politics and future elections), and Norman Walbek, (international ·impjications}, on Wednesday, tevfs Dave's' Mens Shop 453 State St. l (downtown Schenectady) J May 30th, m S.S. 016 at 7:JO P.M. All are weldome to attend. * * * * All students who completed the ' LSA T this year please contact Professor Daniels before May 29 for the purpose of responding to a short questionnaire. The requested information is esssential to the College's \Pre-Law\ Advising Program. A report will be available prior to the conclusion of this term. * * * * Monday night, May 28, at 8:15 in Memorial Chapel, Philip Gruppuso will give his graduation recital. The program will consist of Mr. Gruppuso's chamber compositions for string orchestra, winds, piano, organ, mixed voices and a jazz quintet. Also, he will perform piano works by Debussy and Stravinsky. * * * * ·Private room and bath near campus offered in return for IS hours per week care of two children, beginning in September. Call 370-3099. * * * * incoming freshman group qualitatively, Mr. Shupe stated that it was a \judgment based on the action of the Admissions Committee\ rather than, .. the actual enrolling group.\ He further explained that the College Board profile would be lower than Ias't September's freshmen as the Committee \continued along the path of minimal regard for SAT's and objective tests with increased emphasis placed on the high school record and personal qualities.\ The schools that have attr:acted the most number of admitted students away from Union are Corneli, Brown, University of Pennsylvania, University of Rochester, and Colgate. Girl .... Continued from page 2 mterview what method of birth control she used), which would not be considered, much less tolerated, in dealing with men. Among the audience, which was a presumably enlightened group, reactions reflected the still- predominant ingrained attitudes. \1 wasn't married then, I was just an old maid (general laughter), so don't give up hope.\ Ms. Miller directed this comment to an unmarried panelist. It was encomaging that some men were in attendance, their hesitancy testifying to unaccustomed minority status. It is important to recognize that rigid stereotypes restrict men as well as women - changes will provide more options for all. The very power of myths is in their ability to block alternative conceptions of the world and thus become .self- perpetuating. Such fallacies must be exposed , and challenged in order for significant (i.e., attitudinal) changes to occur; it is to this end that consciousnesses are being raised. The panel discussion Tuesday night served, per.haps inadvertently, to point up the most crucial factors in sex discrimination. Prof. Stevenson, whose dissertation was on Thomas Nash, a I 6th century author, is working with other literary ideas which developed in that century. Examining why authors,· such as Nash, wrote the way they did, Prof. Stevenson finds it necessary to draw on the· classical sources Nash drew upon. Moving fi:om contemporary life to the 16th century, then back to Aristotle· and then forward again to this century, Prof. Stevenson claims she has \learned to grow, .. moving into kinds of life that were exciting.\ Questioned as to why she chose !•6th century literature as her spe.cialty, Prof. S·tevenson exclaimed she had a \terrific teacher at Duke\ who, through \osmosis was able to pass on his \excitement and humility\ of his subject to her. The Renaissance, she noted, is a period when there was a \lack of restraint\ in Iiteratute, yet the \basic questions of human life\ were also being dealt with. Concerning the relationship between her research and teaching, Prof. Stevenson expressed three ideas.· Her first thought is that knowledge or research is \the life soutce for a teacher.\ Coming into contact with both primary .and secondary sources leads one to \new ways of thinking,\ to \reshuffling the wor14 of literature you look at,\ PuritY/sahella s r .Ia\.' ~&-~ § \91 PHARMACY, INC. Taking over the second half o( the program, Prof. Butzel said \excitement\ was the key word related to his research. To him, \teaching and research are inseparable,\ as they are \one and the same.\ His own research' is in the field of developmental genetics, fecusing on Protozoa as a. group, and working especially with Paramecium. Prof. Butzel noted that science ••is always moving,\ stressing the necessity for scientists to be doing their own research while keeping up with the research of others. This, he feels \keeps teaching refreshing.\ While Prof. Butzel admitted that most experiments ••don't work,\ he also acknowledged a \genuine excitement when you do find something out.\ One of the problems of pursuing a scientific career at a small college, Prof. Butzel expressed, is the fact that there is ••no one to talk to you, to encourage you.\ Being the only geneticist at Union, Prof. Butzel finds he must be ·:self-sustaining,\ though through publication he. does get to share ideas with colleagues. Finding resources within himself he admits is a ••delightful challenge.\ Answering the query as to how he decides which problems in biology to answer, Prof. Butzel remarked that the decision is a value preference. He claimed that while ''scientists presuJ.Ue to step outside of their work,\ trying to be \objective they design experiments because they want a certain result. After questions from the audience, refreshments followed. * * * * .-----===~====----. Levrs Dave's' Mens Shop.·· 453 State St. · (downtown Schenectady) \I have entered on an enterprize which is without precedent, and will have no imitation. I propose to show my fellows a man as nature made him, and this man is myself:' Rousseau We,propose to show our fellow beer drinker a natUral beer. A beer without additives or chemical preservatives. For a natural Rhein gold taste you just can't find in other beers. Natural Rheingold® I We know how you feel about beer. \'\he ingold Breweries, Inc .. New York, N.'( & Orange, N. J

. I J Page4 Friday, .May25, 1973 - Baseball Statistics Kevin Crawford vollies 4s the Library goes up. photo credit Farley Lewis Walker Leads Lacrosse ·. Player Walker, Dennis Jr., Freeport, N.Y. Grossman, Bob So., N. Bellmore, N.Y. White, Stan Sr., Marion, Mass. Thompson, Jim Fr., Larchmont, N.Y. Ward, Don Fr., Kansas City, Mo, Walsh, Mark Fr., Baltimore, Md. Kline, Don Sr., Cortland, N.Y. DeMuth, Dennis So., S~;:arsdale, N.Y. Dwyer, Jerry Jr., Schenectady, N.Y. Miller, Pete Sr., Watertown, N.Y. Garabed!an, Harry Sr., Salem, N.H. Grabo, Bob Fr., Rome, N.Y. Fine, Mike Sr., Longmeadow, Mass. Davis, Bruce Fr., Basking Ridge, N.J. Nadheamy, Chris So., Winnetka, Ill. Collins, Jim Fr., Bethesda, Md. Garone, Mike So., Lindenhurst, N.Y. UNION OPP. GOAL TENDING Ritchie, AI Fr., Hamden, Conn. Wa~d, Don Fr;, Kansas City, Mo. Kaufman, Don So., Belmont, Mass. PENALTY SITUATIONS Man-Up Man-Down SCORE BY PERIOD No. 10 Robert Grossman against Hamilton. Union photo credit Bill.Erichson Opp. Boulevard Diner CHARCOAL. STEAKS · SEAFOOD HAMBURGERS TOTALLY REMODELED FINAL LEAGUE STANDING Central N.Y. USJLA Cortland Hobart Union Syracuse RPI Colgate 5 3 2 2 2 0 Won 5, Lost 7 Goals 42 13 12 5 6 6 4 3 4 I 3 3 3 1 0 I 0 l07 125 Games 12 2 1 Att. 96 89 0 1 2 3 3 4 I 26 32 WEEKDAYS F~l.& SAT. SV'NDAV 6 A.M,-J A.M. 24HOURS Union 15 7 Siena 8 Union 11 Hartwick 12 8 A.M.-J A.M. 5 7 Williams 14 9 12 Syracuse IJ 9 14 Colgate 5 8 Assists 9 36 1- 3 2 I 2 I 0 2 0 0 0 0 1 0 I 59 52 Saves 154 5 :] Goals 32 23 2 3 25 24 28 33 Trinity RPI Hamilton Cortland Points 51 49 13 8 8 7 6 4 4 3 3 3 3 I I I 1 166 177 Avg. 12.8 2.5 LO % 33.3% 25.8% 4 Final 32, 107 32 125 4 4 5 16 12 Wesleyan 5 Middlebury 11 5 Dartmouth 13 . ...,. •• • -~-· ... .., •. It: ......... -~ .;m;._·· -~ - ~· -· .... ·····~ •. . . -. Sigs Bruise D·. Ch·i 6-2 For the first time in the history of interfraternity sports competition at Uni0n College, the Delta: Chi . and Sigma Chi Fraternities each pitted 'fiheir best II soccer players argainst the other's. The .game was played on Dean Garis Field last Wednesday, May 23. The Sigs, led by team Captain John Taylor and halfback Bruce Freeman, overpowered their opponents 6-2. D Chi was unable to &ubstitute any players, as they only had 11 men, while the Sigs had a team of about 23 players. Pete Zabawsky and Jim. Collins added one goal each for D Chi. Scoring for the Sigs were Bruce Freeman, who tallied three times, and Randy R,ushack. Ed Rowley and Willie Pick~ns wh0 had one each. Team Captain of the S(gs, John Taylor, boasted after the game that his boys will accept any challenges from another house or an independent team, __ as long as no more than half of the team belongS' to either the J.V. or Varsity s~uad. Relief pitcher Wally Borotto. _ photo by Bill Erichson tevrs Dave's· Mens Sbop 453 State St. ~· (downtown S~henec:ta,dyJ '<- \t~ ~ ,r ~ ~ t' ...... ! (} : r J ·.,i -~ 1f{pf ONCE A DRAGON DID OFFER- FOR THE COSTE OF TWO 6-PACKS OF SCHAEFER BEERE·TO TEACH A KNIGHT THE ART OF THE DANCE, AND THE KNIGHT DID ACCEPT THE CHANCE TO IMPROVE HIS SKILLS. AND ONCS AGAIN THE DRAGON OANCETH l\HC: KNIGHT AWAY. ----~ Schaefer Breweries, New Yo;k and Albany, N.Y., Baltimore, Md., i.ehigh Valley, Pa.

trne·r Brazil , and their to their a·nd to on ro~ the no ho to But on is his but let to he he \ e r r Union College Course EVIIIuation Supplemet~t to Concordiei'ISis- Page.A UNION COLLfGE COURSE EVALUATION .~· Editor's Note: Starting with this issue, the Union College Course Evaluation will consist of a supplement in Coneordy for the Fall and Winter Term issues. We expect that in future terms Fall Term's issue will be printed about the flfth week of \Winter Term and Winter Term's issue will be printed about the fifth week of Spring 'Term. The Spring Term issue will be printed, along with reprints of Fall' and Winter Terms in the old format and distributed during Fall Term,.· probably during registration. < . Fall, Winter Terms 1972 -73 Besides saving the student body an appreciable amount of money, this will enable us to provide each entering Freshman with ~ full copy of the previous year's Linebacker. We hope you like this new format and would appreciate any c9mments on it. In this regard, we would li~e to thank AI Reisch for his help in working out the details and Mr .. Sam Clevenson, our publisher for suggesting it .. Jim Alberg, Editor INTROBU£TION \ The Union College Course Evaluation is a study of courses offered by Union College during Fall and Winter Terms 1972-73. This evaluation is based solely on student opinion of the courses and their professors. Each professor, · of recitation courses, seminars, lectures, and labs, was asked to distribute computer data cards and a questionnaire to his students - for any class with four or more stlldents. Each student was asked to carefully, and honestly, fill out the cards. All data was compiled and analyzed by the college's Honeywell G-415 computer. The printout contained in this booklet is a summary of the larger version of the Course Evaluation which is available at the Circulation Desk in the Schaeffer Library. This modified version sho11ld provide students with enough data to assist them in . weighing student opinion regarding the listed courses. For those who might like to do a more detailed analysis the answer tape will be made available, with appropriate deletions, upon ' application to the Dean of the Faculty. Each line of the printout represents one course. The call number, section number, course abbreviation, course type, course description and instructor were taken directly from the Registtar~s information system. The enrollment is the number of A's, B's, C's, D's, F's, and l's given or the enrollment from the Registrar if this was a non-graded course. Ratings are given on a 1.00 to 5.00 scale. Ifa course had less than SO% response \Insufficient Response\ has been printed. If a course had no response, the cards came in too late to be keypunched, or any question existed as to the validity of the cards, \No Response' 9 has beea .printed. In some cases fields have been blanked out manually due to possibility of errors. \Coursen refers to the question \How would you rate this course (Lab)\ The answers were 1. Poor 2. Fair 3. Average 4. Good 5. Excellent. ''lnstr' 9 refers to the question \How would .you rate you~ instruc~or\ The answers were 1. Poor 2. Fair 3. Average 4. Good 5. Excellent. .. . . ~ • 4> .... _ ..... • .... •• ,.;\\. • ... ~ ....... -- ......... -· --- \Knowlg'~ refers to the question \The instructor was, as related to tile subject material,\ The answers were I. In over his head 2. Vaguely familiar with the topic 3. N«:»t applicable 4. Very knowledgeable 5. An expert on the topic Except for Lab Sections where the question was \The ~nstructor exhibited a broad and thorough knowledge of the subject\ The answers were 1. Strong Disagreement 2. Disagreement 3: Does not apply 4. Agreement 5. Strong Agreement. We recognize that we were extremely slow in producing the evaluations for the past two terms. Be assured that the problems we~e in the programs and that since they are now fixed, thjp.gs will be b.ack to normal . • One reason for this major change in the format was that we felt that students were mainly looking at grades, instructor rating and course rating. We feel that by just printing this information we will not only save a great deal of student tax funds that could be better used elsewhere but also point out the statistical inaccuracy of this type of data. Our samples are fairly small, the data is collected under widely varying conditions, and the students take a widely varying attitude towards it. · · We are thankful to the many people who have helped us in this project - Mr. Calvin Schmidt, Dean Lichterman, Mr. Richard Daniel, Prof. Schwarz, Mr. William Williams, Ms. Nancy Renzi, Ms. Gert Dodge, and Prof. Hartwig, to name a. few. LINEBACKER was started as a student evaluation of faculty for students. It is not our intention of being everything for everybody; we do try to insure that our data is as relia~le as possible however. Questions, comments, criticism, and help would be welcome (especially help). Drop us a line at the computer center. May 1972 :' - ~,., -·~ .--. James L. Alberg '7 4 Editor Lester M. Feintuck '75 Robin L. W_al'ipg '75

·~ Page B- Supplement io Concordiem;s l.lueltaeker Union, CoUege Cour$e £valuation IJNION ~OLLEGE ~OIJBSE EVALIIATION QUESTIONNAIRE PART ONE: mE COURSE 1. How would you rate this course? l) Poor 2) Fair 3) Average 4) Good 5) Excellent 2. Considering.class format, class size was: 1) Toolarge 2) Large, bu~ functional 3) Desirable 4) Small, but functional 5) Too small ;;, What was the level of this course? I) Secondal).' school ' 2) Introductory college (e.g. for freshmen) 3) Intermediate coJlege (e.g. for 1 or. 2 prerequisites) 4) Advanced course fur majers 5) Graduate course . 4. How often did you find you had to prepare for this course? ; 1) Never 2) Only before papers or exams 3) Weekly to every other week 4) Several times a week 5) Daily 5. How would you rate the quality and quantity . of work expec~l!!i? · 1) Gut 2) Little meaningful work 3) A \normal\ amount of work 4) A fairly heavy amount of work 5) Too much work to be covered 6. How,important was class attendance? I) No classes, per se, were held ~ 2) Attendance was· not required and was not valuable 3) Attendance was :requir~d but was .. \ not valuable 4) AttendE!,nce was not required but was valuable 5) Attendance' was required and was valuable - 7. This cowse, as related to the subject, J} Failed to interest me 2) Decrease(! my interest 3) Maintained my interest 4) Increased my interest 5) Greatly incr¢ased my interest 8. How would you rate the bdoks assigned in this course? 1) Not relevant and dull 2) Not relevant but interesting 3) No books ~equired · 4) Valuable out dull 5) Valuable and interesting 9. Class format was: I) Lecture 2) Lectune with some discussion 3) Equal lecture and discussion 4) Discussion with some lecture·· 5) Seminar PA:RT TWO: THE INSTRUCtOR 10. How ...$~uld you rate your instrqctor? 1) Poor . 2) Fair 3) Average 4) Good 5) Excellent 11. The instructor was, as related to the sub- ject material, . I) In over his head 4) Answered questions in class but not available outside of class 5) Answered questions I readily~ in and out of class l3. Instructor's grading procedurt was: I) Unfair and slow in returning exams and papers· 2) Unfair but he returned exams and . papers quickly 3) Statement does not apply 4} Fair, but he was slow in returning exains and papers 5) Fait, and he returned papers. and exams quickly PART THREE: THE STUDENT 14. Class Year: I) Fre&hman 2) Sophomore 3) Junior 4). Senior 5) Gradua.te or Special Student ·15. Sex: I) Male 5) Female (NOTE: Female is 5 not 2) 16. Your present Cum index: (Ist Term Fresh~ man - Leave Blank) · I) Below l. 70 2) I. 70 to 2.29 3) 2.30 to 2.69 4) 2. 70 to 3.29 5) 3,30 or better PARt FOUR: FACULTY QUESTIONS 2) Vaguely familiar with the topic 3) Not applicQ.ble ... Questions 17 on will be on the board if the Instructor chooses to use them. · 4) Very knowledgeable 5) An expert on the topic 12. The instructor= I) Did not like gt!estions and could not b·e found outside of class 2) Did not like questions but was .avail- able outside of class 3) Othet answers not applicable \' . Thank you for your cooperation. Any (\fim- menrs should' be sent to the _ Union·· flo/lege Course Evaluation; · ·cjo · Compwer Center. Campus. - .. (All previous editions obsolete.) ,• .. -. . Laborat~ry IJD~stions only RATE THESE QUESTIONS WiTHOUT REGARD TO LECTURE PARTONE:LABORATORY 1. Time spent in lab was: 1) of no value 2) of little value 3) no opinion 4) valuable 5) very valuable 7. How would you rate this laboratory? J) Poor 2) Fair 3) Average 4) Good 5) Excellent 2. How well did the lab integrate with the course?. I) did not integrate at all , . 2) did ~ot inte~rate well . : 3) not designed to integrate with the· course \ · 4) fairly well 5) very well 3. Preparation required for lab was: 1) none 2) minimal 3) nominal 4) a lot 5) too much 4. The importance of lab exams with respect to tlie lab grade was: 1) no exams given 2) rather little 3) appropriate 4) more than half the grade 5) entire lab grade 5. Work required in preparation of bib reports was: 1) none required 2) minimal PART TWO: INSTRUCTOR 8. The amount of supervision .by . the lab instructor was: 1) no.t enough 2) adequate but not helpful 3) made little difference 4) adequate · 5) too much 9. The. lab instructor exhibited a broad and thorough knowledge of the subject; 1) strong disagreement · 2) disagreement 3) does not apply 4) agreement 5) strong agreement 10. How would you tate this instructor? 1) Poor 2) Fair 3) Average 4) Good 5) Excellent 3) appropriate 4) quite a lot 5) too much PART THREE:. 6. Considering lab format, lab size was: 1) far too large 2) large but functional 3) desirable 4) small but functional 5) too small 11. Your present cumulative index is: 1) below 1. 70 2) 1. 70 to 2.29 3) 2.30 to 2.69 4) 2.70 to 3.29 5) 3.30 or higher >- ., jl.' ! - ., - '. J~ ,. 1 l l 1 1 1 1 1 1 1 1 1 1 1 1 1 1 1 1 1 1. l. 1 1 1 1 1 1 1 1 l 1 1 1 1 1 1 1! 1 1' 1 1: t: ;1.: 1: 1: 1: 1• 1' ~· 11 1• 11 11 21 21 2: 2• ( 2~ 211 2~ 211 2\ 2~ 2411 2~ u 2E u 2E 2E 2! u 2ti 2t 215 215 2(5 215 26 2tS :?13 28 28 2B 28 28 28 28 28 28 28 28 30 32 32 32 32 32 .32 34 34 34 34 34 35 36 38 38 38 38 40 40 40 40 /40

1tion . -· J} .... ::. Union CQllege Co•se-·~v.aluation: ·: F i\(..~,-~:~8\ lJ N T 6 N :l;;_.O,b.J..:fr-G 1,!--GoVR-&E-·E-VA\i; '\ttd'·t ON-· . . •. CALL SEC 100011 .. 01 100 011 .. 02 100011-03 100011-0-5 iooo24-o1 10003!.-(:)1 100 03 3- 0·1 100041 .. 01 100046-01 100057-01 10006~ ... 01 100064-,01 100066-01 10'0067-01 1000H•O.l 100072.,.01 100074-Ql 100075-01 100076-01. UOOB2-01 1.00082~02 l,00082 .... 51 :1.000'84 -01 100065-01 100086-01 101010-01 101011wQ1· 1.01019 ... 01 102010-02 102oU .. 02 103010-03 103011-03 104010 .. 04 104011-04 10501Q-05 105011-05 106008-06 106010?'06 106011•06 107010 ... 07 108010-08 12.0 010 .. ·01 1200U•01 120012·01 120013 ... 01 120020 .. 01 120032 .. 01 140010-01 140030 .. 01 160010 ... 01 160020M01 UOD40-01 180021 .. 91 180030 .. 01 200010~61 200133 ... 01 220010 .. 01 240010 .. 01 COURSE CEih 011 CED· 011 CE-O· 011 CEO\' 011 CEiD• 024 CED• 031 C!:Dw 03.3 CED· 041 CEO• 046 CED ... 0!5 7 CEO· 062 CED· 064 ceo- 066 CtD~ 067 CED• Q?l, ceo- 072 CED• 074 CEO- 075 ceo- o7s CEO• 082 ceo .. os~ ceo .. oa2 CEP- 084 CEI)v OB5 ceo• os6 CED• 010 CED• QU CED· 019 CED• 010 CEO- Ol,1 CED• 010 CED• Oil. CEO• Qi.O CEO .. 011 CED• 010 teo- 011 CEO• 006 CEO-. 010 CEO· 011 CEO• 010 CEO- 010 ART• 010 \ ART- Oil. ART• 012 ART- 013 ART ... 020 ART· 032 PRM .. 010 DRM• Q30 MUS• Ill. 0 MUS· 020 MVS• 040 Cl,.S• 021 C!.,S• 030 GR!<• 010 GRI<• 1.33 I.AT• 010 ECO• 010 r Y'I3E lJl;;Sc·tn ~:rx 6N ' .. ~ i. .... \'· ·~ I NTRO COMP. PROfilRAM'MG R !Nl'HO COMR PROGRAM.MG . ~ lNTRO COr•ll\l PRQ.GRM''MG ~ INTRO UOMP. PRO~;iRAMMG ~ LIT OF THE B~BLE ~~ MUSlC IN WESfRN LIFE ~ PRrr~L~~5 IN ART ~ JAPANSS~ AESTHETICS q CO!IITEMPOHARY FRANCE ~ THE NATUHE OF MATH -~ Dit.:ll TAL G'OMPUTR PF;(IN q lDEAS 0~ MOD P~VSICS q SEX ANU StXUALITY R CO~!PVTEH L.ANGl).AGES ~ BASIC 9~~1GN ~ COLOR R BASH; l)~AWING ~ BASlC U~SIGN - a~D R MUSIC ODMfi.QSlTI!JN R PRAt,;Ht;AL. THEATRE ~ SEX~L.'1 & CENSO~SHIP q SEX,L.T & CENSDRSHlf ~ SEX,L.~i & CENSORSHIP R l'ECHNOL&HUMAN VALUE!;; ~ Mo~AL PILEMMS Uf G9V R I.A14 IN Dt::MOCRATC,: SOC R ECQNOMJCS li\J.SOCIETY ~ Stl~~C~ & PUB POLICY R PROJEC! J N ~R MICE -R SPECIJliAT l VE f 1-CT !ON q NAT HI:SOURCi:S; PROBS R ASP~CT~ Of ~A~GUAGE q CONNOISSt::URS' CHEMIS ~ ECONOMISTS I SOCiETY R ~~GHT ANO COlOR R HU~AN SOCIETY ~ SyMMtiRY IN NATUR~ R METRO~O~ SYST STUDY R fORMS Of BEBELLION R WEATH~R A~D C~IMATE ~ fRE!:OOM Af\10 ORDER R FREI::DOM R COI_OR~>PA! N'fl NG l ~ BASlC UHAWJNG I q BASJC ~-u DESIGN ~ BASlC 2•U DESIGN R PRO~LEMb IN ART 1 R BASIG 3•U DESIGN II ~ DESIGN VISUAL TWEATR R ACTlNGJ MOVEMENT R JNTRO~~CIN TO MVSlC R MUS~C COMPOSITION I R BASlC I<E:YBRD HARM I R HISTQiilY OF GREE!.iE ~ EURPN DRAMA~ PR[GIN6 R PRI~C~L.ES OP ~REEK ~ GRE~K TRAGEOY R PRJNClP~~$ OF LATIN R . ILEMEN bCONOMlCS I CALl. ~EC COURSE TYPE OI:~GRIPTIQN ELF.MI:N ECONOMICS ELEMI:N tCONOMICS I 240010-02 ECO· 010 240010·03 ECO· 010 240131-01 ECO- 131 240132~01 Eco~ 132 240133~01 ECO· 133 24013B-01 -eco .. 138 240143-01 ECO• 143 240151-01 ECO- 151 260010-01 EGL· 010 260013-01 EGL· 01J 260015-01 EGL• 015 260015-02 E:GL· OH 26012~-01 EGL• 120 260121-01 fGL• 121 260123-01 · EGL• 123 260124-01 EGL• 124 260130-01 EGL• 130 260142-01 EGL• 142 260145-01 EGL• 145 260162-01 EGL• 162 260167-01 EGL• 167 260170-01 EGL· 170 260172-01 EGL.· 172 ?80013•01 HST· 013 28fr014-01 HST• 014 280014-51 ~ST· 014 280035-01 HST• 035 280065-01 HST· 065 2B0073-01 ~ISh 073 280123-01 HST• 123 280142-01 ~ST· 142 280150•01 HST~ 150 280167-01 HST· 167 280187-01 HST- 187 280196-01 HST· 1~6 300010-01 CHI• 010 320010-01 FRN• 010 320012-01 FRN· 012 3201J1-01 FRN• 131 320143-01 FR~~ 14~ 321096-01 FR - 096 .321135-01 FR • 13~ 340010-01 CER• 010 340012-01 GER· 012 340062-01 GER- 062 34~130-01 GER• 130 340141-01 GER• 141 350010-01 HEB• 010 360010-01 RUS· 010 380010-01 SPN- 010 3B0130·01 SPN• 130 380133-0L SPN• 133 380140-01 SPN• 140 400011-01 PHL• 011 t00012·01 PHL• 012 400014-01 PHl• 01~ 400020-01 PHL• 020 /4Q~QJ6-01 PHL· 036 M I CI<IOiid;ONOM l C ANAL YS LA~OR ANU INDUS? RE~ GQVl I:CONOMlC POLICY OUAN~ M~lHODS IN ECO ECONOMIC UEVELOPMENT RE~~UkCI:&ENVIRQN ECO ENG~ lll: MEO & REN AM~HlCA~ AUTHORS INTRU ru LITERATURE 1NTRO TO LITERATURE ~7&18 C~N A~ERICN LT EA~~y AMI:AlCAN NDVEI.. MQDI:Rill- AMER I CN NOVEl. CO~TI:MP AMER FICTIOh EXPOSIIUR¥ WRITING TRAGELlY INTHO 10 SHAKESPEARE VJCIOH1AN POETRY MOl)f:RI.II JJ!iAMA STUUl~b 1N AM~R LIT STUVIE:S !N DRAMA CIVL ~AH&RECO~S~RCTN MOD AMtH 1880-1929 ~00 AMtH 18~0-1929 16~1/ C~N EUR SOCJET ~ATIN AMI:R !825 ON CH!I\IA AI\U JAPAN EDUCATION I~ AMERICA GE~~ANY: 1865 - 1945 ENGL ~ONSTIT HISTORY US-LAT AM fCON RELS MQD.cHru JtwiSH HlSTRY EAq4Y AMtRI LA~aSOC BASIC CHlNESE I OA'=ilC ~RtNC4 I BAS lC ~ Fti:NC!J I II SURVI:Y ~t FRENCH ~IT FRENCH HUMANTIC LIT FRENC~ C!VltiZATION FRE~OH LANG ABROAD BAS lC GtHMAN I 8AS1C Gf::RMAN I II F.URUP!\1 ~HORT F ICT-101\i CQNff:MP ijbRMAN tiT GE~MA~ CLASSICISM BAS!C Hi:::t:!~EW I BASIC KUSS!AN I BASIC Sf.'A:'IJ!SH I CoNTI:::MP SPANISH LIT C~~f~MP SRANSH USAG~ GOLUN Abt SPANS~ LIT PHLOSOPH!GL CLASSICS PH!L.O~OPHICAL P~OPS 'GR~~K P~iLOSOPHY CLA~Hil!,;AL LOGIC PHENOM~NOLGY&EXISTEN D~ l SC Ol.'L (,;AL,ANTOWlCZ MC KEOiriN tiAJJAR r OX \HLSON MRS I) HI TTLEMAN THI,JRS TON KO&ElH::i ~ lL.LE TTE 1'1C KEOWN loJYL, EN I..AMBHH ~NGVARSSON l\rH.S 0 e iTHEMA N ;i T-0 KE S STOK:ES CURTIS 6 SMITH ~HJNAGI:L !$Hl NAGEL ~Hll!'JAGEL KETCHUM NlCHOLS ANDERSON t.1ERMAN HULL I,.{:(;L,ERC KH.BI;IR!il W MARTIN JR NeLSON . SHEF'.f\E:R F lNKELSTEr N GOBLE GRACEY l..f;wt.s j;lE VIER MARINOFF D STON~ PeARCE E;NTEMAN MRS IJ tllTTlEMAN l:iTOKES M\)GRI'lEAD HOKES MHS D a I HL·EMAN M~ORHEAO S l'I:CKL.~R ~·SMIT'!:I t,~~SON ~UHflS CURT lS\W ILSON f.iEE:CE ' fEST ROf.tT REECE .. TESTROET N JOMNSON ~lERMAN. · · INSTRUCTOR PHAUP KENT KEt-..NEY PRQSP£:::R WILE HO!SKA K~RSHNER MC ~AMA~A HE:VEN~ON ST 1NEI3ACK STEVENSON NURPHY P ALL.E!'J KIL.BURN GADO STINEBAt;K NE:LSON lJLLMANN PHK 1./L.L.MANN VL.U·IAI\JN P ALLEN PECK PENNEY ,JONAS I. IPP~AN HANSEN iJRISlOL THIJRST ON POTTS HANSEN N ALLEN tlRISTOL bERK ill AL!,I::N woo THOMAS ROBERTS ROBERT!l T HO·M AS !,.Er.:LERC !.!:CLERC KRUGER i\LEYM WARDE KL I:MM '. vi A RDE wEL,KOVlCS .,J!::RNAKClrF VII\TCK ASTIZ VI 1\J I C'K AST! Z J:LL.I ST or, l:lYI\AGU:: PI:H:RSOr-1 PE:T!:RS(JN i:LL[STUN ):wi 25 27 :24 24 24 36 8 41, 16 52 10 65 184 19 u. !;') 8 13 26 34 34 a 30 :1.7 44 19 27 41 22 27 19 10 u 20 21 14 19 20 26' 20 u 15 21 1(1 9 u. ~ 1~ 32 23 1~ :1.3 '\ 9 ~ ·4 7 44 RPT ReT 23 92% 26 96% 24 100% 0 0% o· O% 35 97% 4 SO% 34 82% 13 81% 34 65% 9 90% 37 56% 120 65% 9 47% 10 90% 3 60% 7 IP% 9 1!19% 22 84% 26. 76% ~0 58% 10 9Q% 27 90% 15 88% D 0% l,9 :1.0 O% Z4 88% 0 O% 20 9(1% ~2 U'% :!,6 84% 9 90% • 0 0% :!,9 95% 17 8(J% 12 85% 0 0% t5 75% 22 84% 19 95% 9 81% 12'. 80% 17 8:0% 13 81% 5 55\ 12 109% 0 . (1% D 0% 29. 90% 17 73% 17 94% ~4 lQ7% .30. 'ex. .4 44% 5 100% 4 1'00% 6 ~15% lf1 93% ENR RPT PCT 39 40 37 52 22 16 26 26 24 33 24 20 15 23 3j, 35 14 9 27 14 27 20 7 58 29 38 21 15 32 22 26 15 21 12 7 14 12 8 2~ 13 41 30 21 11 17 12 7 37 15 26 9 15 9 15 21 14 3i3 25 32 82~ n n'l. 32 86% :38 7·3.% 1,9 86:% 0 . O% 21:. 80% 24 - 92% 20 83'1. 25 75% 22 91% o · o:\ l1 '7~%·. 0 0% • 27 87% 28 8()% 8 57% 9 101JX 15 55% . 11 78% 15 55% 19 95% 6 85% 43 74% 26 89% 36 94% 15 71% 13 86% 27 84X 19 86% 21 8D% 4 26% 15 71% 11 91% 7 100% 13 92% 13 108% 0 c% 19 90% 13 100% 0 0%/ 0 O% 16 76% 10 90% 16 94% 12 100% 7 100% 37 100% 13 86% 21 80% 9 1.00% l,4 93% 9 100% 1-5 86% 11 sa% 11 78% 24 72% 1,9 7~% .. A., : B 7 1~ . 7 11 7 9 8 11 5 j,O 13 !4 Q .s :1,8 16 2 lO 24 j,~ 3 4 t7 26 34 us 7 4 5 !) 2 2 4 2 ~ 4 24 2 9 16 -;1.4 !1.4 1 2 u t7 4 10 6 14 10 8 8 ~·5 5 8 10 :1,6 3 1:! 3 2 3 4 4 9 5 u 4 6 8 u 14 e 3 6 ~ !i 5 9 5 u ;, 12 4 2 ~ 8 1 3 7 3 21 11- 7 u ~ 9 2 6 :1.0 21 4 4 ~ . 0 .. 0 l 4 19' 21 c 5 9 7 2 1 7 4 4 0 8 2 18 24 4 1 -1 1 4 0 5 4 5 2 2 t9 1' 3 a 1 a 5 3 6 2 3 2 3 9 J 1 5 1 1 2 0 0 0 3 2 5 19 1 1 D 1 .3 Supple~endo Concordiensl~ ·_ Page C -· D 0 Cl 3 ~ p D 0 3 3 1. 2 J. z 0 0 0 ~ 0 3 t ' 0 Q 1 0 1 0 0 0 0 0 0 1 0 0 .:1. i Q Q Q 0 9,. 0 0 Q 0 ·D a ~Q ~ 0 0 0 1 0 F () 0 0 l D 0 () Q 0 0 Q a 1 2 0 Q 0 0 0 0 0 cO:~BSc JNSTR KNOWLG ~,7a 3.65 3.21 4,15 g,23 3,69 2,91 2.a3 3,29 NQ RESP.-()NSE NO RESPONSE 4 1 2e 4.6a 4.60 2,25 2.25 2,75 4 ; 18 g •. 2 o 3 • a a .s,~s 3,bl 4,23 2;79 3,61 4,35 J;eo 3.2~ 3,77 3!08 3.64 4,05 3c75 3,86 4.22 I~~UFFICtENT RESPONSE 3;40 1~2~ 4,00 4,33 4,33 4,00 3,85 4·0·0 3,85 4;22 4.33 4,62 4,31 4,63 4,59 4;07 4.44 4.38 •tQ5 t,5o 4.1o •~zo ~.6o 4,6o 2!15 ~.11 3,57 3,86 ... ;3 4,13 NO R·E SPONSE 4,,a •. 7a 4,a9 ~,66 3.29 4,16 NO R~S'F'ONSE 3,~0 3.25 3,85 z!~s 3~76 4.oo 3@10 3,43 3,81 2!22 2,33 J,aa NQ R.ESPONSE ~~21 2oJ6. 4,05 ~t76 2o47 3,88 ~!33 ~.so 3,83 NQ RESP-ONSE 2,60 2.60 3,73 3t45 3.59 4.31 4,~1 4.26 3,89 ~!44 4,77 4,75 3!25 2.66 3,50 ~,87 3.88 3.93 3@38 3,61 3,76 3,60 3.60 3,60 3,33 3.25 3.58 NQ R!iSPONSE NO RESPONSE 4,79 1.85 4,37 4,~2 ,.64 4,76 4,23 A.62 4,76 4t28 4.71 4,78 ~t•3 3.ao 4,66 lt:l~t.IFF_:lClENT RESPONSE 3,§0 ~.~Q 4.00 4 1 75 4.15 4.7, ··~6 4.66 4.50 4e51 ~;eo 4,95 fAll TERM 1972 - 75 A 9 9 .u . t5 6 e 9 6 .. 3 7' ·.J ·iO 4 6 5 9 ? 2 3 4 2 ttl 0 13 4 14 4 4 0 8 6 4 2 2 2 7 5 2 4 7 18 6 3 3· 6 5 0 14 8 6 '•2 6 4 1 4 2 12 3 B t!> u 9 22 u 2 9 6 13 14 12 7 J 4 9 ~4 4 5 11 7 u 9 ;J 28 t2 20 7 !) 19 .6 1.0 5 9 l 2 4 4 2 1.3 .3 14 14 .5 4 } 6 6 '1J 5 1.3 !::) 6 .3 9 11 4 7 4 c 11 15 12 10 '-6 6 8 13. 7 9 9 13 3 9 1!) 9 6 2 10 2 8 0 3 l6 10 4 10 4 10 2 7 4 6 3 2 3 2 3 4 3 9 9 6 1 4 1 1 9 1 \'4 2 2 1 3 5 !) l,.O 14 L) ;J 4 4 3 Q Q 0 0 0 3 0 0 1 0 ~ 2 0 0 ' 0 1 0 0 1 3 0 0 2 0 3 0 0 3 0 0 0 1 1 0 0 0 1 3 a 0 0 0 :1. 1 1 0 :1. 0 1 0 3 3 2 F CG~RSE INSTR KNOWLG 1 :1.. 1 1 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 1 3 1 1 1 0 0 1 3 0 1 0 0 0 0 0 1 1 1 1 0 0 0 0 \) 0 0 0 Q 0 3 1 ·o 0 0 0 0 2 0 0 1 0 0 0 0 1 4t~5 4.19 4.09 l,$7 2.74 3.54 4,03 4 .• o~ 4,18 J,57 3.63 4.24 ~.15 3 .• 63 4.05 . NQ IUH>PONSE 4,~1 4.66 4,28 3,~7 3,33 3,91 4t10 4,40 4,60 3,56 4.13 4,29 4~22 4.27 4.18 NO RESPQNSE 3,72 4.4~ 4,09 NQ RE~Pt)NSE 4 t 3 7 4. 48 4. 77 4tQ7 4,32 4.03 4,25 &,25 4,37 4,62 4.22 4,33 Ji60 3,60 4.33 4dl0 4, 09 4,54 3;~3 4,13 4.26 4,36 4,52 4.05- 4,16 4.,16 4.66 3,Q6 2.97 4.11 3,73 3.96 4.19 4,44 4.51 4.44 4~13 4,2t 4,66 3,30 3.46 4.~8 4;07 4.2~ 4.18 411l 4.36 4,31 4,52 4,61 4,95 ~~~UF~IClENT RESPONSE ~t86 3•00 4.06 4,,0 4.90 4,72 4,14 4.71 4,28 4,30 4.61 4.69 4;3Q 4.69 4,23 NO RESPONSE 3131 3.21 3,94 3,61 4,38 4.46 NO RESPONSE NO RESPONSE 2.7~ 2.75 4.12 3~90 4,20 4.40 4t5G 4,37 4.25 J~33 3.66 4.33 4,42 3.57 4,14 • 3', ~ 7 4 t 13 4 • 7 2 4~46 4.69 4.84 3,61 3.80 4.38 .St88 4.33 4.11 3t76 3· 71 4.21 3,66 4.33 4.11 3i46 3.6~ 4.15 ~1~5 2,47 3.41 3,36 3,1B '4,27 2,75 3.2$ 4~29 3,,7 3.57 4.63

&ge D- SupJWIIWflt :to ~ord!e~!s. U~ I..UL.LbG!:: COUffSE\ '£iJ.b!;.;t!·Af fllN-> u-.,~~~ ()~ l.v•laat.Jn FALL 'l''ERM 1972 ... _ .. 7~ • CAU. SEC COURSE TVIIE i!li::SCRlPTION 420010-91 420.010--02 42ooio-o3 420011-01 PS • 01~ A CO~FA~ PULIT ANALYS PS • G1D ~- CQ~PAN POLJT AMAlYS PS • 010 - CQM~AM ~ULIT ANALYS PS • 011 ~ AME~ POLI1ICL SYSTEM 420012 ... 01 420020 ... 01 420130-01 420132-01 420159-01 4-20168 .. 01 420174-0t 440010 ... 01 440146 ... 01 PS ... 012 ~ INTE•IfNATLON~ POL.!TCS PS • 020 _ q PQL,HlQL IJAT.\ :ANALYS PS • 130 1:! HIS f 01- 1-'01., THO\,HlHT PS • 132 q US POLiT!C.AI,. THOUGHT PS • 159 q SE~NR4 1NJ PQLJTlCS PS - 168 Q VOT'lNG Bl:tiAVlOR ANA4., 'PS • 174 Q lMEHICN ~OL CAMPAIGN Soc; .. ll10 q IN'l'h':O SOt;IOl,OGY I SOC· 146 q asv~tORING CO~NTRJES SOC .. 157 R SOl~ Qj:. 1NHUSTRY&WOH;K SOC• 163 ~ CLA::iSiC SOC!.. THEO-RY ANT· 011 9 MAN A~U ~ULTURE ANT- 152 CULTV~I:S-S iAST ASlA STA. 010 q INtRO STATISTICS STA- 201 R PRO~ & StATISTICS STA~ 201 Q PRO~ & SLATISTJCS STA· 202 q STATIStiCAL MfTHODS lA • 211 ~ INTkQ MANAGERl ACCTG lA ~ 216 ~ lNTf:ti·t~;;T~ HlJS&F'INAf'<C!: lA • 219 ~ !NTH TO 5¥STEHS A~A~ IA • J32 ~ MKT SYSJ~M 4 ST~ATEG IA - 206 ~ LI~~A~ VtTERM MODtil AMS· 062 q AM ·sr~~ltS JR SEMIN~ BID· (l1J 'l BI()L.OI:IY Of PLANTS BlO· G1J q AIC~O&Y UF PLA~TS BID- 014 Q ANINLS-OHIGI~iDVRSTy SIO· 014 q AN!\LS-OHLGIN&DVRSTy BIO- 01~ ~ CQ~TJ~VJry 0~ LIFE BIO• 0.15 ~ CO!'i1'1' INUJ fV OF LIFE B!O- 021 q EVQ!..U OF THF. ENVIRON ~10- 022 q EVQ~UTIUN OF SPECIES BIO- 032 ~ BIOL 0,. V&RTIBRATES BID- 052 q - MA~fNb ~JOLOGY SI~- 052. q MA~lN~ ~JOLGGY BID· 054 q EAqtv A~IMAL DEVELOP BIO· 150 ~ EVOl;.l.lfJONARY BIOLOGY 810- 153 q ADVANCeD ~COLOGY BIO- 013 L 8I~LOiY Uf PLA~TS 8!0- 013 L Rf~~O~Y QF PLANTS 810· 013 L ~IQI;.OGY 0~ PLANTS BIO· 014 L. ANTMUi-OHIGlN&DVRSTy BJQ ... 014 L ANIMLS-011IGIN&DiiRS1'Y BID· 014 L ANTML~-OHIGTN&OVRSTy BIO~ 014 L ANIMLS-ORIG!N&DVRST\' BIO- 014 L ANIMLS-O~JGIN&DVRST¥ BID· 01~ L Cb~TI~UIIY CF llFE BIO· 01~ ~ CQ~TlNUII¥ OF LIFE BIO• 021 L EV~LU OF THE ENV!RO~ 44 0 1!) 7-0.1 44016J .. tJt 450011-51 450152-51 460010-01 46'0201 .. 01 460201.:..51 460202-51 470211-53, 47'021~-51 470219.,S1 470332 .. 51 478206-51 480062-01, 5'10 013-0.1 510013-0:I. 510014-01· 510014·01 510015-0l 510015-tll 510021-01 5 j; 0!0 22-01 510032-01 510052-01 510052-01 5i0054-01 ?101sa-o1 510153-01 s2oo13-01 520013-02 520013-03 520014-01 520014-02 520014-03 520014-04 520014-05 520015-01 520015-03 520021-01 520022-01 520032-01 52·0032-02 520032-03 520032-04. 520052-01 BIO· 022 L EVOlUf!ON OF SPECIE~ 810- 032 L 9IDL Of V~RTERBRATES BID· 032 L 8IOL m VERTERBRATES BID· ~32 ~ L 8If'JL Or \!.ERTERSRATES BI 0· 032 I. 8 I OL Or VE-RTERBR AT ES Bl\f. 052 1.. \1Aq1Nt: dlOL:lGY COURSE 'fY·I'E !NSTFil:JCTOR Sr!ARLET N I GHOU:i·HARTW I G /lllC110LS W OA1\t!I:LS NORMAN WALBEK . HARTW[G ~UNr.IELL MAR CELt. GATJ HARTW Tf;i li DMA RCH- \'iJSTER.ER KUSTEIH:R 1.\USTERI::R GRACEY KATONA CHILDS i'HRABILE SCnt1EE F l SCf4Eic~ ~oss MACIARIELLO 8E:HRE-NS MADPEN Bl.IRKE hiRA6ILE P ALLEN VRBAI'v TOt!IESSOIIJ ROTH RAPPAPORT i:fUTZEL DALGL.E HiM DALGLEl~H f01:; I ESS,EN i:lUTTE::R~iEI N l,Jf<8AN L.JRBAN tlAPFAPORT 4,!ALGLclSH TObiC:S;iEN URbAN YHBAN URBAN GEORGE ~TE:VEN SHAPIRO GEOHGE .J CHALMERS ~·J SCiiADI.ER SLiT lEL BUT ZEL l.JALGLE ISH TOt:s!ESSEN bUTT!:R~TE:IN uUTTERS'TE IN 81J'TTEHS TE IN tH.ITTERS TE IN GEORGI: INSTRUCTO.R ENR RPT PCT A B 46 36 34 31 18 1,6 28 .32 l.1 12 64 53 20 14 8 12 5 3'2 4 30 -· l,3 25 16 22 25 6 22 51 51 90 90 58 58 2:1. 5 65 15 :!,5 58 :t4 17 lOX 5 16 33 86% 3 ~5 :.$Q 88% 1 1!) 26 ~3% 3 ~4 15 ~3% 4 tl 17 106% 5 6 0 ox 4 18 24 75% 6 14 11~100% 6 4 13 108% 3 4 42 65% 21 35 39 73% '' u 26 16 10% 3 7 7 5o% 3 5 7 !7% ~ I 10 8·3% 7 .:s 0 0% ' ~ 0 OZ B. ~Q 0 0% 1;. 1 0 0% 12 15 0 0% , .s 0 0% 6 11 0 0% 7 4 0 0% 8 u 25 100% 6 19 0 O% 1 2 21 95% 4 ~0 D 0% ll H» 42 82%. H 16 72 80% 20 32 0 0% 20 32 49 BAS 8 29 49 84% a 29 0 O% 9 . 9 0 0% 2 3 56 81~ 13 31 . 6 40% 7 8 7 46% 7 8 59 101% 2~ 22 0· O% 7 7 l4 93% 7 ' 15 107% p 1()0%. 11 a 5\ 17 77% :t.5 14 17 20 22 19 2:!; 17 '19100% 14 18 20 22 5 18 18 16 13 15 0 0% 1.6 94% 18 128% 17 94% 19 95% 0 0% 0 O% 12 . 66% 17 94% 14 87% 17 130% 7 46% FALL TERM c .23 2 1,6 ~ 12 (I 13 I) 2 0 3 0 c J 1 9 2 1 0 2 0 6 0 6 0· u ·o '4 0 .1. 0 3; 0 0 '0 4 a, 2 0 3 0 1 Q 6 0 3 0 3 0 0 0 1 0 5 3; 19 -~ 19 ;J 34 1 J4 1 18. 1 18 1 3 0 0 Q 18 ~ 0 0 0 0 9 2 0 I;) 3 0 1972 - 7.S CAL~ sec 520052 ... 01 520054-01 520054 .. p2 5200~H .. OJ 520153-01 540010-01 54·0010-02 540010-0~ 540010-04 540030-01 540030-02 540040 .. 01 540148-01 540152-01 550010-01 550010 .. 02 5500:1,0 ... 03 550010-05 5so o1.o ... o6 550030-01 550030-02 550030-03 550030-04 550030~05 550030~06 550030-07 550030-08 550040-02 550148-01 550152-01 550152-02 610120-01 640010-01 640010~02 640010~03 640010-04 64001o ... os 640010-06 640010-07 640010•08 640012·01 640012-02 640014-01 640014-02 640014\03 640018-0l 6400·'30-01 640041-01 640041-02 640101-01 BIO· 052 BlO· 054 rna- 054 sro .. 054 BIO- 153 CHM· 010 CHM .. 010 CHM• 010 CHM· 010 CHM• 030 CHM· 03-0 CHM· 040 CHM· l.48 L L L. L. L ~ q IJE::)l,;R I PT I 0'-J MARIN& lliOL,OGV ENR 15 ~0 ~9 19 15 35 31 25 25 66 52 22 12 15 RPT P(!T A c 0 ·640136-01 640170-01 660013 .. 01 670011-01 670013-01 670015-01 670121-01 670132-01 CHM~ 152 CHM· 010 CHM- 010 CHM .. 010 CHM- 010 CHM- 010 CHM- 030 CHM .. 030 CHM· 030 CHM.• 030 CHM• 030 CHM· 030 CHM· 030 CHM ... 030 CHM .. 04 o. Cr!M· 148 CHM· 152 CHI-1- 152 GEO• 120 MTH· 010 MTH- 010 MTH• 010 MTH· 010 MTH .. 010 MTH .. 010 MTI-J- 010 MTH- 010 MTH• 012 MTJ,f .. 012 MTH .. 014 MTH- 014 'MHJ .. 014 MHI .. 018 MHf .. 030 MH/ .. 041 MTfl .. 041 MTH .. 101 MHI· 136 MTH• 170 PHV- 01.3 PHY• 011 PHY· Olo.S PHY• OH PHY- j21 PHY~ 132 R ~ R .11 Cl R ~ L L L L 1.. l. L L L '~ L L L L L L. L ~ 1:( R R ~ ~ q ~ >? q R q R R R R q ~ Q q i.l ~ R R R R l'l EARI..Y' AN I MA·L DEVSLOf' EARLY AN!MAI.·DEVELOP. EAR~Y ANIMAL DfVELOP ADVANCEU ECOLOGY F\UIVD CHI:M IS T-RY t l,JRBAN RAPPAPOJH 1-<APPA:PORT RAPPAPORT TOHIES~E--N SCAIF\E ~UTTER WE-RNER SCAIFE Sf~HF\E!o< SUwA SCHAEFER WE:!CK fHCSCH wf::ICK w~RNER SUTTER FUii,JD CHb:r-tiSTRV l FUNI.J CHE::MISTRY l FUNJJ C~EM IS TRY I QRGANIC CHEMISTRY 0RGAN$C CHEMIST~Y 0UANTiTAfiVE CHEM RADlAf!ON TECHNOLO~y PHY~!CAL CHEM II, FUt...tlJ GI-!!:MISTRY t FU~IJ CHE::MISTRY I F'U'..IU t:HI::MISTRY I F'UNll CHeMISTRY f F'Uf\liJ CHtMISTRY I ORGANiC CHEMISTRY I 0RGAN1C C~EMISTRY I 0RGAN1C CHEMISTRY I ORGAN-iC CHEMISTRY 1 ORGANIC CHEMISTRY I ORGANIC CHEMISTRY I ORGANIC C~EM!ST~Y I ORGANIC CHEMISTPY I 0UANTlfAllVE CH~~ RAnlATlON TECHNOLOGY PHY~l(.;AL CHEM Il PHY5ICAL GHEM II REC&Nf b~UlMEN ENVIR CAtCUC.US I CALt:Ut:..VS I CA~CUI.US l CALCULU:> l CALCULUS I CALCULU~ l CAlCUL.U~ 1 CALCULUS I CALCULUS II CALCULUS I I CALCUt..U~ I I I CAI.CU.L.I,J:S I I I CALCUI.:.l)b I l I !NtHO LOGIC & SET TH 0R':I1N tHI-F EQUATION~ LII\If::AJ« ALGERRA I L I \It: A~ AL GE'8R A I CQ~PLX VAH VECT ANAL R.EAI. VAk 1 ABLES I TQPOLIJGY 1 lNT~O PHYSICS I INTFIO PHYSICS I INTiiO PHYSICS l! ~Oili::RIII PH'fSIGS r AT~OS~H~HIC PHYSICS ELE~T I MAGNETISM I ~~ MAIHIN HULL SOh A SOw A ~~ MARTIN ilHEFFEH HULL !:iHEFFEPI ::iHE:F'F'ER !:iOWA SCHAEFeR WE:ICK FROSCH ~UTTER -'IMMERI!lAN MADDAUS W STONE LEACH STHAlT fWvL lER GILL!:TTE I. li~ (j I..OiJGHLII\i i.·~ACri 1 ORI~GA 1..0uG4L I~' 1-AlRCHlLO :>TRA TT SE 1 KJ:N f'ORNGA- MADOAUS !..Tt-.G W STONE Fo.OuU ER ~ AIRCHILIJ 5WARfl f!TUG HALL l.08LE WINDSOR W SCHWARZ . 21 22 19 16 19 14 18 22 16 12 -17 15 15 12 13 8 8 9 27 29 22 32 13 2.6 24 27 33 16 26 16 21 17 H 23 17 16 24 11 ?.5 24 .15 9 7 12 !5 33% 1B. 9-JJ% j,4 13% 21 1:1-lJ% 14 ~3% 31 as% 27 67% 25 1.00% ?.2 88% 55 8:5% 44 84% 18 81% 0 0% 1<1 93% 0 0% 19 86% 17 89% 12 75% 16 84% 15 107% io 55% t9 86% 13 81% 12 100% 14 82% 15 1:!10% 12 '80% 11 ·91% 0 0% 7 87% 7 87% 10 111% 0 O% ?.7 93% 18 81% 29 90% 11 84% 21 80% 19 79% 22 81% 2.5 75% 16 100% 23 88% 13 81% 20 95'% 0 0% 9 81% 20 86% 16 94% 15 93% 22 91% 9 81% 14 93% 6 85% 4 2 7 4 16 H 5 4 15 4 6 7 2 ~ 5 12 10. 17 a 5 8 5 4 2 .12 8 4 7 5 10 8 5 2 3 6 4 2 1S 12 7 9 :J,6 ;1.4 1.0 4 6 12 5 14 ..3 9 6 9 5 1 Q 2. 6 6 1 6 ~ 4 , 6 11 6 3 2 2 2 4 I 1'0 14 7 9 19 17 6 3 4 1 5 6 8 6 6 5 2 3 8 6 - 5 r 6 5 !:> 3 4 2 4 10 0 4 7 7 4 1 1 - 0 ~ 4 1 4 1 5 1 2 l 0 e 0 l. 1 5 0 1 ;s ~ IJ g 2 0 a 1 1 6 ! t 7 e 1 0 l. 0 0 2 0 0 1 0 3 3 2 1 2 0 4 1 a :1. 1 1 0' (). 0 0 0 0 0 0 2 2 1 2 5 2 0 1 0 0 1 0 0 \ (I 0 Q 4t~8 4,51 4..55 4,'.4 -···~0 4,63 4r~O 4!~~ 4,7~ 3t61 3,t1 4,1, h64, - 3 .18 ........ ,1.. . 3~41 3,11 .•.• 11 . N9 ·RE~P(l:NS'E- · - -· 0 1 1 3 0 0 0 0 0 j, 3tPS 3·,33 '3 1 75 ·!~3 4.7~ 4,9'0 ~,~? •~t7 4,J8 3ti1 J.t2 3.95 2! 4t() 2. 89 ;:, •. 59,, -,,!02 2•·'9,~ 3 .8.1 ·lf·, li' !t~ oa · ·!J ··1-t, ~.3;4 fl .. 112 • ,.2.:&- 11 t Do rJ .• s~o. 4 • ~'0· NQ RSS,P,ONS·f! · NO R6,SP.ONSE '\ NQ liESPONSE \' f) NQ RESP.CJNSE 0 0 0 0 0 0 I) N.O RE:S·PC»M)E NQ ReSPttNSE NO RESP,I)NS E ~Q RES.PI)NSE 3.,41!{' 3.5~ 4.1~ NO RESPO NS.E -4,28- 4L52 J.9!S ~ l. 3 3 2. 2 0 0 l 0 0 0 0 0 NO ·RJ.:SPQNSE J,&5 ~~21 4.23 4tD8 •• 5~ 4.86 N:Q. Rf;~PONSE 3,,1 Jo6f •• 4&~ .lt2~ 3·•.04 3~ 93;- .NQ Ri;SPQNSE - NQ R~SF'QNS.E 3•57 :,.s; 3.82·. fN~Q:f'f l Gl EN1' RESPONSE IN:!iUfi;;'l cr~NT RESPONSE 3 ~ 7 4 - 3. 8 2. 4. 67 NO RESP'OIIIS.E 4 t!U. ,·; 2a J, 92. 2,,6 2.D1 a.4o z;os ~.52. J.os ?~oo g.s, J.os 3.no 3,41 3.64 3;21 2.89 2,55- NO RES.PONSE 3~Q6 3.43 3.,62 J!55 3,47 3,35 J,ts 3.64 4.5a 3 1 57 4.oo 4.42 NO RESPONSE · NO RESP.ONSE 4!&6 4~1~ •.oa 4.2~ 4.17 4~4!, J;76 3.64 3,85 ~;sa •~ts ~.82· .• I N~t;JF~ I CJ ENT' liESF'·ONSB . -.> r ~ - . - . ' CO\dRSe mSTR KN()WLG. ··· wsun i C I ENT RE'SP ONSE -· '.::\ 3 .66 3, 8:6 · 4, 5.S 3!28 3.78-4.2$ 3,57 4•0Q 4.·25 3135 4,Q.:V -4.~4_ 3,48 4.oo <4,2:9 J\t4 3.69 3,&8 J~64 4·28 4.11 J,68 4.22 4.22 3~43 3.32 4.29 2~81 3•11 4.Q6 4,05 ~-50 4.83 NO RESPONSE -3r5o 3057 4.oo lljO RESPONSE 3t68 3.94 4.1,5 3~94 3,76 4.uo 3,75 4.58 4.66 3~25 3,81 4,~5 3,26 3·53 4,26 J;so 4,2o 4,1o 3,78 4.73 4.57 ...s;·3o 3, 33 4 .4.1 4,uo 4,B3 t.s~ 4,f,)7 4.14 4.2.t 3 ! 53 3 • 46 4 • 2.6 3.,3~ 3,63 4 .tB 4iot 4,45 4.!a NO RESPONSE J,oo 3,42 4.14 3;3,4 3.42 3.57 3,7o 4·10 4.4o NO RESPONSE 4,3o 4,55 4.7o 3t?2 3.72 3.94 .3 ; 69 3 • 9 6 J .• 9.:5 a;1a 2.63 4, n' .3t33 3o28· 4.23 3~89 3.04 3.!~ 3,86 4.72 4. 72 .S,24 3.40 . 4, 1l 3,31 3.68 4,38 3.82 4.43 4,$6 3~ 61 4,2J 4,.5J 3i3o 3.7a 3.ss NO RESF'ONSE .s-,33 .3,33 4,1.j 4aOO 4,65 4,45 3a73 3,75 3,93 4,00 4.40 4~4~ !•~0 3.77 4.27 4,33 4.aa 4.44 3·8~ 2·t2 3.64 ~~~~ · 3.83 3.5o CA 670 680 680 681 681 6·82 710 710 710 710 710 710 710 710 710 710 710 710 710 71'0 710 1 710 710 710 720 740 740 740 740 740 740 740 740 740 740 750 750 770 770 770 770 770 780 780 810 810 810 8:1,0 810 820 820 820 840 840 840 a·so 87D 870 87,0 870 870

. Colk# Couts~ Ev~lu~:tion .,. Supplement to Conco;diemis -· · Page E i·•·.'· 1 . . .. '· G Ul\ljQN (;o~;;:~..r.~ CQQRS.E 6V·Ai,.,UATION F4LL TeRM 1912 - 7S CA·LL SEC COURSE 'l'YPE I!JI:::,t;!:-11 P T I ()IV , I()JSlRUCTOR tiVR RPT PCT ~· l:l G 0 F COUHSt lNSTR KNOWLG I 670140-0t PHY- 140. q fNTRQ QUANHJM .t1 E!:q H A fll , . .,lONES 9 0 ox 3 .s 1 0 1 NQ RESPONSE 680011-01 · P>HY• Q':i'l ~ MECHAI\il !,;S fiTIJ'.S 25 0 0% NU HESPONSE 680132-01 r :P.HY 9 1:32. ~ ELEli l 'MA lii\15 T I S.M l \~ SCHWARZ 1.2 68101~-01 . PH\'• 01~ ·' ~ IN'1'1'itl PHY!SlCS n 1.E~<.lS 15 681013 .. 02 :PI-fy .. Q1.~ ~· INTRO ~i'IY Sl CS !I SjijAfHZ 14 68.2013-.02 PHY• o•t3 · 1.. I WI' HO Pio!Y S I t:S I l ::iwART.l 10 4i~7 710010·01 PSY• 010 ~ INTI'IQ PSYCHQLOG'r' HUN TL,EY 3j, 26 8..S\ 3 10 9 (t 2 4,84 4.84 710 010- ()'2 PSY- . 010 ~ IN.TI'IO PSYCflQL.GlGY N!:WM.AN 46 41 89% 5 2,2 t!i 4 0 3,6:> 3,34 3,87 710010~03 pgy ... 010 ::! IN'T~~'O 'f' i:i'f t:HOLOG V G.lRONf:H 35 24 68% 7 10 12 4 2 3~33 3.04 4. o·o 710010-04 psv .. 010 q INTifO P!:iY CHOLOGV NM\~CY WAL.SEK 27 :3,6 6(»% 8 11 7 1 Q 3t01 3.62 3,81 710010~05 PSY· 010 \'l INTRO 'I\'~Y G·HOLOG Y IIIE:W!M N 22 18. 81% 2 11 8 l 0 4' g5 11,27 ... 33 710010 ... (16 PS:¥• 01.0 R iN'TKQ P~YG'HOLOGV 13ERTHOL.U 27 14 5'1;% 5 ~9 1 1 0 4,35 3,81 4.23 710024-0l. PS¥· o:iH. R S(J!;lAL F'.S¥C·HOLOGY NEWMAN 39 2·0 51% U; 17 8 2 0 ~; 30 2.65 2.90 710030-01 PSY• 030 q THE'ORY (:)~ PERSONALTY LiRAVES 59 0 0% 3 2.1 32 2 0 NO RESPONSE 710030-02 :Psv- 030 ':l THEORY vr PERSONALTy GHAVES 42 0 O% 7 16 14 1 1 NO RESPONSE 710031 ... 01 .Psv- 031 q A.B'~ORMAt. PSYCHOi.OGY PEA.RC£: l,3 15 115% t !:1 7 0 0. 4,~1 4.4Q 4.46 710035 .. 5~ PSY• 035 ~ O:RGAN!lA I HJN PSVCHOL. t.it:HTHOL.D 16 17 106% 3 4 7 0 2 3t82 3.88 3.82 71 00·38·01 PSY• 0,38 q CHlkU PSYCHOLOGY I\IANCV WAL,BE.=K 39 22 56% 5 12 17 3 Q 3~13 3·09 3.71 710042•01 PSV• 042 ~ MENTAl:. TE::ST lNG PeARCE 17 :1,6 94% 3 4 8 0 0 3t93 4.37 4.37 71'0044.,.01, PSY .. 044 F! f;)(PtR$M jJSYCHOL,Q'GV tii,.INTL.EY 3,7 16 94% 7 7 3 0 Q 4!43 4.37 4.68 710<046-01 PSY• Q46 R ·PH V!:. 1 U L 0 u 1 C L. PSYCHO(., t3ERTHOL.U 56 47 6S% 15 19 12 6 3 3,68 3.36 J,68 7:1,0055-01 PSY• 0:5l:J. q C:O:JIIIScL lNG SEMINAR I HR S .C 0 1\.hHlL E 1l 11 l.OO% 0 4 7 0 0 4,()3 4.90 4.72 710M2\'01 PSY• 062 F!' CHl i, J) STUUY' I G lk!lNt:R 21 tB 8!;)% 5 1 '8 tl 0 3t50 3.38 3.55 710064 .. 01 PSY• (),64 q p·svCHUI-OG¥ ~:EM 1 N;AR ulRDNER 8 7 87% 3 2 2 0 0 4tOO 4tl4 3.71 720044-01 PSV• 044 L, EXPERlM jJSYCHOLOGY HUI'ITI.EY 17 16. 94% .S~43 4.37 4r81 740010•0:1. ES - 0'10 Q INTfiO 1: NI:HN S)'STMS l l)H!SCOLL 22 0 0% 5 6 8 l, 2 NO RESPONSE 7400l0-02 ·ES - 010 ~ INTRO t\'ull'IJ SYSHIS I ·Ci1A IG 26 27 103% 7 1l 6 2 I) 3r48 3.92 4.29 7400:3.0-03 ES - 01'0' q i NTffO c·lli()IN SYSTMS l 1: lSENSTA·DT 20 l8 90% 4 8 5 2 1 Jt33 3 ·11 4 ·11 740010~04 ES .. Q11J q lNTRO I:::NulN SYSTMS I t\iA·i;.~ . 2:1; 0 0% 3 9 6 1 1 N.O RESPONSE 740020-61 ~;·s - O?.P q MECHAPilt:S PANI..ILIO 9 0 0% 0 , 2 2 0 ~0 RESPONSE 74.0 022 .. ()1 ES. . 022 ~ set Of l:NGII'>J MATERLS PCiTTER 27 l4 51% 3 11 9 ~ 0 J,28 3.85 4.28 740026-01 ES - Q.26 ~ THE: R M r;JOY /£HE A·T TRANS AlJ8REY 16 l,5 93% 2 2 7 :5 1 J,, (16 3.73 4,40 740026 ... 51 ES .. 026 q TlJEMMtllJY&HEAT TRANS ,.tONES :1,0 10 10-0% 3 4 3 0 Q J!70 !lo4(,l 4,7o 74003'0-0't ES ~ 030 q MecH 0~ I:JEFOR SOLIDS PIKUl, 17 1.3 76% 4 4 8 1 0 J,l,5 2·84 4.15 740202~51 ES . 202 q ELECTRON MIGROSCOPY POTTER 5 5 10.0% 2 3 0 0 0 \'l 5. 0 0 4,40 750020-01 ·es • Q20 1.. MECI'iANlCS PAt>:JLlLIO 9 8 88% 2!87 2o87 1.87 750030,.01 ES - 030 L MECH OF UEFOR SOLIDS PIKUl 17 •0 0~ NO RESPONSE 770020-01 CE - 020 ~ ~~.\Ill M.i:;A::i\JREMENTS MA(..E 28 0 0% 5 12 9 1 l. NQ RE!SPONSE 770042-01 C.E .. .042. q SOil. Ml:t:HANICS HARLOW 30 24 80% 13 9 5 1 1 -4 [ 29 4. s~a 4.87 770045-01 CE - 04'5 ~· POL~UflON&CONSERVAfN CARLSON 36 26 72% 4 17 12 <! (l J,53 3.76 4,03 7700·47~01 CE - 047 q RNF'HCIJ CONCRETE ·~SG~ PIKUl 7 5 71% 2 2 2 0 1 4,20 4.00 4.40 770213-51: t1E - 213 R AIRPO~T-PLANN+DESlGN cOO.K 4 a 0% 3 l 0 0 0 NO RESPONSE 780·042~01 ce; - 042 L Sot\.. MI:CHAN ICS HARLOW 30 25 63% J, 84 4,44 4.52 780047'\'01 CE 047 L RNF'IiCJJ CONCRETE DSGII. PIKU!.. 7 :; 71% J;6o 3.80 4.20 810009-01 [:E .. 009 ') ELEO Ei\iGRNG SENINAR t;~AIG 9 0 0% NO RESPONSE 810009-02 EE 009 s ELECT f:NGRNG SEt~ I NAR LiH!SCOI-L 8 0 0% NO RESPONSE 810030-01 EE . 030 R TRAN~MlS~N NETWORKS iiAL,Af'JTOW I CZ 18 1S 83% 4 7 5 i 1 J, 73 4.13 4.20 8:1,0,042-01 EE, .. 042 q SERVO :SYS & CONTROL RUSS 19 !8 94% 4 9 4 2 0 J,l6 3.38 4.55 ·~. B101S1.,.51 EE .. 151 !:( DIGITAL. ~¥S CONCtPT hOF H1-Af\l 13 17 :l,.3.0% 7 4 2 0 0 J,56 4.52 4.70 820042-01 EE ()4•2 I. SERVO SYS ·~ CONTROL RUSS 7 7 .10:0% 3t71 3.!:57 4.14 820042~02· EE - 042 l. SERVO SY~ & CONTROL lHJODHE ART 7 5 71% ;J,~o 4.40 4,2Q 820042-03 EE e 042 L SE~VO sv:; & CONTROL GOODHEART 6 7 116% 3, 71 3.57 3.85 840009-01 ME - 009 s MEr:H t:~Hi~NG. SE,'HNAil r\I::TChiUM 6 0 0% MO HESPQNSE 840030-01 ME .. 030 ·~ OVIIJAM H.:b LINEAR SYST BE ~IER 16 16 100% 3 8 4 0 0 J,25 3.93 4.18 ~ .. i\ !\ ... a 4012 o -~i:.:~·~M~ ..... 1:?0 ~ q iJ'('\lAMt.C:Or•HR PI-IYS SY::i NlTT.IjL .13 lS 100% 6 7 0 0 0 J,84 3.53 4.07 8'50 030-01 ME \' o3c L DYI\IAMlCS L !NEAR SYST of:. YlER 16 16 ioo% 3,25 3.5o 4.oo 87.0010-01 cs ·• 0.10· q INTRO COM~UTER SCI G i'<iLLlAMS 23 21 9t% 7 1l ~ 0 0 J 1 9o 3.95 4.19 870012-01 cs 012 q Fo~TRA~ PHQGRA~1Mlf'I'G G D 0 DHE: AIH 32 13 40% 16 6 6 1 2 I N3 U F fo 1 C IE NT RESPONSE 870020-01 cs .. 020 1 li!ACH LA IIIli PROGRAMI'ING G i';lLLlAMS 34 28 82% 13 1.S 6 0 0 3t75 3.75 4.17 870130-51 cs \' 130 tl ASSI:MfjLY LANG. PROGRI'i i;RAIG 36 33 91% 12 19 4 0 1, -4, 09 4-69 4,39 870151~51 cs .. 151 R UIGl TAl S¥S·CONCEPT!:l hUFFMAN 21 14 66% 10 8 3 0 Cl ~~28 4.50 4.71

WINTER TERM UIIJ[ ON t: OL LEGE COURSE EVA!. UA, Tl ON . . u mcm',€n1Iej~ Ci£Jurse Etaitlation CALL SEC 100020-01 1000~1-01 100028-01 100 036-0t 100036-01 100047-01 100052-01 100065-01 100068-0.1 10Q069-01 100073-01 100076-01 100077-01 1000'80-01 1uooB7-ot COURSE CEO· 020 CEil· 021 CED· 028 CEO ... 036 CEO .. 036 CED- 041 CED· 052 CEO- 065 CED• 0'6·8 CED· 069 CED- 073 CE.O- 076 CE.O- 077 CED~ OBJ CEI1- 087 CED- 088 CED- 089 CEO- D10 TYPE 1 ·~ q Lh;:~(.;R 1 PT I ON THE MODI:t1N TE:~PER WQ\li::N lN LITERATURE PA qAPSY(;HO•(.. OG P HE NOM Sc! f:Nr;e: ~ IC TI ON jNSTRU{;f.QR :JAOO · CE:D- au 1 o .o o a· a ... o 1 100089-01 101010-0:J; 101011-01 l02011J-01 1 02011-Ql 102019-0l 10J010-01 103010-02 B3011-01 104011-01 104011-02 1040l6-01 104019-01 105010-01 .1.05010-02 105011:-01 106018-06 107008-07 107010-01 107010-02 108008-08 108010-01 109010-01 110010-01 110028-01 110028-02 110028-03 110028-04 110028-05 110028-06 110052-01 110052-02 112010-01 120012-01 120014-01 120021-01 120030-01 120031-01 120032-01- 120033-Dl 140011-01 140031-0l CED,. 010 CED- 011 CED- 019 CE::l• 010 CED- 010 C.E D· \)11 CE[J .. 011 GEi) .. 011 CED- 016 CED a J 19 CED- 010 CED- 010 CED~ OH CED· 01.13 CEDu OOiJ CE1'J• IJ10 CED· 010 CED- !108 CE!).. 010 CEJ .. 010 c~;o .. 010 CEO- 'l/?8 CE!J .. 0:?8 CEO• 02tl CED· 02d ceo .. 026 CED· ns ceo .. os2 CEO- 052 CEO .. 0.10 ART .. 012 ART .. 014 ART· 021 ART- 030 ART .. 031 ART- 032 ART· 033 DR\!- 011 !JRM .. 031 ~ q f-1 ~ ~ q ~ '-? ~ :~ ~ ~ :1 q 1 ~ '1 ~ 11 q q q ~ fl ~ 1 q :~ ~ ~ R 1 :1 1 !~ 1 n . !:l ·~ ~ ~ ~ ~ L Sc: !I::NCi:: ~ lGT! DN GR~ ARI~GfVIllZATION ScI~ T l:i;H PWHOGr(APHY EVOLUl!DN ANO MAN Sysf~M~ ~ CYBER~ETCS MATI:RIALS~CIVILIZTN 8ASIC UI::SIB~ - 3D 8ASIC UtSE:lN-GRA 0 HICS NAQHAfiVI;; ~RITING 1.. JgE:RTYg:-,;oct AL r'JRDER AT0MJC ~IIJ&PU8 POLICY MA'J AI-'AI-11 PRf:')t.:!S IN ADl-1 f.lE\SPON \1U'SLC :!N 1-iESTRN LIFE lJF~ IN IWE UN!VERS~ ~USlC t:U~POS!TION WHAT l::S SG IENCE PRn.JI:CI !hJ COLU~BIA ~A~ I~ MQUfRN DRAMA '1A\J I~~ MtJDERN o:lAMA !Nf~O TO GO~TEM MATH lNTHU CUMP PROG'{AMMG JNT~U COM~ PROGRAMMG 1SR~~Ll UIV!L & H!ST PRQ..JI::C I U~ !SRAr:L THE li.li:;.A OF PASTORAL TH~ 1Dt~ OF PASTORA~ ~RSAN lriANSPQ CRISIS '\'E'~'f<OFIL ::;vsr STUDY STAll:: LtGIS~ATURE TH~ ffHSI ~ORLD WAR THE ~IR~l WORLD WAR AMEI'I !CM l \JDI ANS AM HE~UHM I~ 19 CENT fRE•l: lJQM AIIIJ) ORDER EV~LU HUMAN SOCIETY PARAPbYCHOI.,nG PHENOM PARAP~YCHUlO~ P~ENOM PARI\P:iYCHOI.O.G PHENOM PARAPbYCHOL.OG PHENOM PA!Hi->tiYGHOL.OG PHENOM PAqAPtiYCrlOLOG PHENOM SCJ&TI::CH PHOfOGRAPHy SC!4fl:CH PHOTOGRAPHY ~R~tDOM U~DER&UfOPIA 9ASIC ~-V DESIGN 9ASIC C~bGN-GRAPHICb PR:JbLf:M~ IN ART ) I ~OLOR- P•I~TING II BASH; U'<AWI~G II sc'JLf' TUkl: I SCUI.PIUt-;J: II ~E5!G~1~G TWEATRE II ~~CT lNG - MASKS MARINOFF i.UDWIG r' ALI~EN ,.yLEN 1 ~EECE .., J.ONES DAt..Glf:lSH rlU SS, LI:;>ENSTADT I~OORHEAU :5T OK ES l\i I L. B U.fl i\1 I~ ALLEN P'JLC:HF.R G!::ORGE t:~TEMAN wiLSON i,!:WIS CURT !S F RUS:CH PEC,K PECK STRAIT f.>AJJAR 1\10FF'I1AN i:iE:R K 13ERK HE VENSON 5 ll: VENSON MlTTAL bE VIER UN!JERWOOD HANSEN HANSEN ::iTINE8ACK PENNEY I:LLISTON ri\JSTERI::R i.,UD~iiG L.IJD~!G I.UDirJIG I,U£Hol I G L.UD~IG I.IJiJ14 I G G JONES C JONES UYf>.JAGU: MOORHEAD ,jTQKEs D i:J!TrLEMAN J i:l!TTLEMAN .:iTOKES f100RI~EAD ,..,OORHEAD .)Tt:C~L!::R 8 S~ITH U~JO~ COLLEGE COURSE EVAkUATION CALL SEC COURSE TYPE IJI:::iCRJPTJQIJ I N·STI>!UCTOR t:j SMI fH CURTIS CURTIS WILSON 040 021 041 041 132 024 Q31 134 010 010 U10 ou 011 131 139 139 140 141 142 145 013 015 020 122 12J 131 141 144 15.3 159 164 168 169 140040•01 DRM· 160021-01 :- MU,S- 160041-01 MUS- 160041-01 MUS .. 160132-01 MUS- 180024-01 CLS- 180031-01 CLS· 200134-01 GRK- 240010-01 ECO· 240010-02 EC0- 240010-03 ECO· 240011·01 eco .. 240011-02 ECOM 240131-01 eco .. 240139-01 eco. 240139-02 Eco- 24014D-01 eco .. 240141-01 ECO· 240142~01 EGO· 240145-01 ECo .. 260013-01 EGI,.· 260015-01 EGL· 260020-01 EGL· 260122-01 EG!,_. 260123-01 EGL· 260131-01 EGI..- 260141-01 EGL- 260144-01 EGL., .. 260153-01 EGL· 260159-0t EGL· 260164-01 EGL· 260168-01 EGL· 260169-01 EG!-· 260171•01 EGL· 260173-01 EGL· 280010-01 HST- 280015-01 HST-. 280036.-01 HST- 280048-01 HST- 280119-01 HST.. 280124-01 HST- 280132-01 HST- 280137-01 HST- 280158-01 HST- 280186-51 HST .. 280194-0l HST- 300011.;.01 CH!- 320011-01 FRN- 320063-01 FHN. 320132-01 F'RN .. 3201.33-01 F'RN- 320144-01 F'RN- 340010-01 GER- 340011-0.1 GEI1· 340131-01 GER- 340133-01 GER· 340142 ... 01 GER.,. 3'50n11-n1 HFi:i- 171 173 010 015 036 048 119 124 132 137 158 186 194 011 011 063 132 135 144 011) 01:1 131 133 142 Oil 1 q ~ q ~ ~ q ~ '? q ~ R ~ ~ q q q q ~ q q q R ~ ~ ~ q q t? ~ ~ :~ 1 ~ R ~ ~ ~ q R q ~ ~ q ~ ') ~ !'? q q :'! q q q 'l 1 1' Q DIReCfij-URMTC C~OICI: MUSlC COMPOSITION II BASIC ~tTBRD HARM 11 BASIC K~f~RD HARM Il CL4SS1C MUSICIANS GRK AMf&~lVILIZAT!O~ •GRK~HDMA~ H~ST&giOG J.!QMt:HI Tli!:: ODYSSEY F.LEME~ t~O~DMICS I EL~McN ~~O~OMICS I ELEM~~ ~CONOM1CS I ELEMEN ECONOMICS II ELF.MtN eCONOMICS II ~JCHOECONO~!C AIIJALYS PUr:JL.l C r I NANCE PuqL. I G r H14NCE LA130R ECUNOMICS Mo~~TAHY ~CO~OMICS ~A~NO~CU~U~tC T~EO~Y IN~UST~lAL ECONOMICS AMERICA~ AUTHORS INTI<{O TO LITERATURE ELEM 0~ COMPOSITION AMEHlGA~~HORT STORY MOD~RN AM~RICN ~OVE~ ~A~~AI!V~ WRITi~G SAl' I Rt: AUTOB!Ot.i~ AP f.IY EAR~Y SHAKESPEARE 18 CE~ tNGLtSH ~OVEL 19 CEN ~N9LlSH ~OVEL IRI~H ReNAISSANCE CQ~T~MPO~ARY DRAMA STUDI&S IN POETRY STUDitS IN FICTION COLUN1AL AMERIC~ HI~ THE NeW UEA~ & AFTER EUROPkAN HISTORY II ~DONN ~HJTN 1683 ON 1' HE Plz:OPL E OF AMER THe ~~GHU [~ AMERIBA LATE MI:U ~ REN EUROP AGE 0~ D~MOCRATC REV RUSSIAN IMPERIA~ AGl: REV5CHG-MOD MID EAST ASIAN Hl~T SfMI~~R BASIC CHINESE II f3AS It; r K1;:NCI1 I I 'i'HE ARII H AS HtRO FRENCH LIT & SOGi€TY Co~ft:MP ~RENe~ USAGE ZOLA 4ND ~IS MJ~IEU BASIC GE:HMA'J I gASlG tH:I-IMAN !I PARKS Rl:f:CE REECE TESTROf::T PRQSPE}{ ~~ ~ LE PHAUP KENT ~E,'-INEV KeNNEY I\'ERMAN HERMAN PROS~,E:R PHAU 0 P\ENT t1C l'vAMllf.fA KILBURN i~I:LSON NELSON t~ADO P AL.L.!:N STJIIIEBACK :)HINAGt:L '.3ADO w MURPHY .;)HINAGI:L \,ILLMANfll 1'1 MURPHY I.IL.LMANN 3Tt:VENSON :, TINE l:l.A CK ill elLS tJOI\tAS IH:RK F INKeU:H!;;IN WE; US POTTS N ALLEN rlANSEN ol:RK COURY Ti1t.JRSTON 1'100 '<OE:l E R TS THOMAS, THOt~AS R01:3EFns • TriuM•\:> t~ARDE KRUGI=R wAROE KLEMM l\JTHO Gi::riMAJ\J LIT Co~TEMP GERMAN ~SAGE GEqMA~ ~UMA~JICIS~ 8A <ll C Ht:~·~EIJ 1 J J.WA:=IOE I~I:LKOV !CS ENR 12 16 7 7 10 21 1.9 4 46 37 25 .37 42 12 27 18 37 22 14 12 27 7 23 25 46 14 36 11 21 9 19 16 3S 10 19 41 36 36 10 39. 33 15 15 26 .34 9 1l 14 '21 18 21 22 26 15 5 18 9 19 ENH 38 34 179 45 45 35 20 66 9 16 23 6 19 18 15 15 33 23 30 25 19 15 7 13 26 18 20 ' 12 12 8 .1,4 29 :1.6 18 13 23, 30 12 18 15 29 25 32 33 31 32 10 10 9 11 13 11 7 22 18 9 6 34 R~T PCT 29 76% 29 8·5% 0 O% 38 84.% 38 84% 53 15:1% 15 75% 46 69% 100'% 93% 69% 9 15 .1,6 '6 :1.8 11 12 14 26 22 (8 24 16 133% 94% 61% Bo% 93% 78% 95% 93% 96% 84% 0 0 0 :1,5 14 18 0 .0' 7 9 27 0 0 0 11 23 7 15 15 18 .1,9 17 27 22 21 8 7 8 10 11 9 5 17 12 6 0 0 0% 0% 0% 57% 77% -90% 0% 0% 87% 64% 93% 0% 0% 0% 52% 76% 56% 63% 100% 62% 76% 53% 81% 7o:.: 65% sox 70% 88% 90% 84% 81% 11%. 77% 66% 66% D% 0~ WINTER TERM 1972 - 7~ A B :1.4 21 84 22 22 16 5 it) 2:1, 10 10 12 6 18 4 10 3 4' 7 5 5 10 3 7 4 12 10 0 1 5 7 7 .3 7 11 6 2 4 8 2 6 12 6 4 :1, 23 3 7 6 2.3 3 6 19 2 7 8 5 5 22 u 16 8 9 ~ 4 a 4 10 4 8 3. 5 2 4 ~ 1 9 12 4 0 10 c· 12 3 54 9- 9 6 5 17 1 0 1 0 5 4 4 0 8 3 7 4 0 0 0 0 0 6 6 0 7 3 1 5 1 3 0 l 0 1 1 0 ll 5. Q $ l, l 0 3 7 0 Q 0 Q 0 :f. 0 Q 0 1 ~ 1 0· Q 0 5 ~ 1 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 1 l 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 F ~ 0 6 1 1 0 0 :J, j 0 Q 0 0 0 0 0 0. t 0 0 0 •. 0 0 0 2 0 0 0 0 0 1 1 1 0 0 0 0 0 1 0 0 0 p 0 0 n 3!~2 ·4.25 •. ,1 ~~~3 .,.~1 3,6, NO R'~SPONSE 3t63 '4·.~3 3.44 3~,~ 3,86 4~05 ~r77 4,41 4.60 4~40 '·20 3.73 3t;$6 3.54 4.34 3.66 3.8~ 4.55 2 ~ Q 0 2 • 4 0 3 • 3·3 ~t93 4.i5 4,25 '•l' 4.oo 4.~o •• ~2 3.88 3,94. ~;72 3.81 4.18 3~fo 3.91 •·o• 'h 38 4 • '7 4 .1$ _4,?0 4,95 4,86 li64 1,71 2,50 4,12 4,7o 4.91 ?;18 ~.s7 3,31 N.Q RESPONSE NO RESPON5E NO RESPONSE 3,26 3.86 4,00 ~h14 2,85. 3.35 4~~7 '·'~ 4~38 NO RESPONSE NQ RE'SPONSE 4,28 4.57 4.28 3;5s 4,44 4.oo J114 .3.29 J.as NO RESPONSE·. NO RE;SPONSE NO RESPONS'E 3,J6 ~.09 4.72 4;26 4.0~ 4.13 *;71 3.28 4.14 3;p~ 3.33 4.13 i?tl.3 2.06 3.46' J~po 3.72 3.27 2e42 3o68 3,36 2;70 3,82 3.29 2125 3o55 3.29 2;45 3.5o 3.27 i~61 ~·9o 4,10 4,25 4.25 4.2~ 4!14 4.14 3,8~ 2.~2 2.75 3.37 J;a~ 3.9n a.6o 4,21 ~.54 4,00 3!11 2.55 3,44 4,eo 3.6o 4.oo ~.23 j,35 3.~0 4;,0 4~~3 4.3~. 3;s3 a;sb ·~~oo - NO RESPONSE NQ RESPONSE Wl~TER TERM ·1972 ~ 7S RPT PCT 0 O% 12 75~ 6 85% 3 42% 9 90% 0 0% 0 O% 4 100% 38 82% 31 83%· 21 84% 29 78% 34 aor. 0 0% 26 96% 19 l,O!,)% 31 83% 20 90% 11 78% 9 26 0 0 21 31 12 28 9 0 8 0 0 0 8 p 38 28 32 7!'>% 96% 0% 0% 84% 67% 85% 77% 81% O% 88% 0% 0% O% Bo% 89% 92% 77% 88% O% 56% 84% 86% 73% 0 22 28 13 11 24 0 9 10 14 18 17 18 l.7 25 12 92% 0% 100% 90% 100% 8!j% 5 19 8 16 94% 85% 77% 96% 80% 100% 105% 88% 84% \ A 12 4 3 3 6 6 3 2 14 9 7 9 11 2 10 11 l2 3 3 5 6 0 0 5 10 5 7 0 8 3 3 7 5 4 6 7 7 6 ~ 4 8 5 3 2 9 2 7 2 l1 6 4 9 7 3 2 11- 4 12 8 0 5 .5 ·.s 2 1U 12 0 21 14 a 11 15 1 16 7 16 10 .!; 4 8 J 9 9 21 7 7 6 10 2 8 6 20 1 5 16 11 18 6 17 13 5 I 10 15 ·~ 4 4 6 11 7 7 10 6 .s t> 4 !> c 0 5 1 1 1 5 4 2 7 13 8 12 9 7 0 0 7 7 2 2 ·12 3 12 10 14 2 16 3. 3 2 7 1 10 2 4 13 10 11 .:s 14 7 5 1 14 0 1 0 6 1 1 6 0 6 4 0 1 1 2 tl 0 1 Q 0 1 0 0 0 1 0 2 5 4 ~ 0 0 2 1 2 j, 0 0 1. Q 0 0 5. 0 0 2 0 2 2 0 0 ? 2 1 0 3 2 0 .2 0 ~ 0 1 0 0 2 2 - 2 2 JJ 1 0 .. 0 Cl 0 0 0 0 Q 0 0 3 1 0 0 2 Q 0 0 0 1 0 0 t 1 0 t D 0 1 1 0 0 1 0 1 0 0 l 0 0 0 1 2 0 0 0 0 0 0 :1, 0 (I 1 1 1. 0 0 0 (). 0 CO~HSt; lNSTR KNOWLG NO RESPONSE ••16 4.5a 4.58 4,16 ~.83 4,83 lNSUF~lClENT RESPONSE 2;22' 2.22 3.11 . NQ RESPONSE NQ RESPONSE 4,00 4.50 4.25 2t71 2.78 3,97 3,~9 3.54 3.87 3,9~ 4.14 4.19 a;~1 ·3.51 4.13 3,67 3.91 4,23 . NO Rt;SPONSE 4 ' 311.-. 4 • 7 3 fJ • 8 8 4;36 ,,73 4.94 3145 3,90 4,32 4,~o ~.25 4.2o $,36 3.1~ 3.81 .3.88 3·88 4,11 3;15 3,G7 4.07 . NO RESPONSE No RESPONSE 3~~~ 4.04 4.33 3.93 4.29 4.Q6 4,41 4 .• 33 3.66 3;96 4.07 4.21 5,oo 4.aa 4,11 NQ RESPONSE 4•12 4.62 4.87 N(:) RESPONSE NQ RESPONSE NO RESPONSE 4~50 4.7~ 4.37 4r23 4•11 4,Q5 4,o7 4,39 4.So 3r85 3.89 4,53 4;53 4.71 4.71 - NO RESPONSE 3,~4 4.18 4.54 4,Q7 ~L22 3.85 ~.66 4.15 4.46 3,81 4,90 4,90 4;79 4,91 4,87 MQ RESPONSE · 4,.33. 4.44 4.25 s,s~ 4,~o 4,90 3;50 3.35 4.42 4,16 4.61 4,44 4!58 4.76 4,52 3,44 3.15 4.11 4;05 4.35 4.29 4tl2 4,56 4.44 2;83 2.66 4.25 4,pu •.oo 4.4o J,b8 4.05 4;52 3,.75 \3.3]. 4,1.1i2':· q;~o 4.81, 4,68 I CAl 3;11 3601 3801 380: 380: 381: 40IJ I 4001 . 4001 4001 4001 4'001 4201 4201 421Jt 4201 4201 . no: 420l 420: 420: 420: 4201 420l 420J 440! 44()( 440( 440j 44Qj 440j 44Qj 460( 460< 460~ 4701 470~ 470~ 470~ 470~ 470~ 470~ 470~ . 4 7()~ 490( 510( 51()( 5UC 510( 5101 5~01 5101 5101 5101 5200 520C 5200 520tl ( CAl 520( 520( 520( 520( 520:1 5 201 520:1 ':i40C 540( 540( 540C 540( 540( 5 40 ( 540C 540:1 5401 s 4Q\1 540~ 550( )50( 550C 550C 55QC 550C '5oc 'soc ')5QC 55oc ssoo '>50C 5501 ?600 5600 61Qr; 6100 6200 6200 64o a 6400 6400 6400 6400 64on 6400 6400 6400 64 o·c 6400 6400 6400 6400 6400 6400 6400 6401 6401 6401

~NOWLG 4.~1 3.6~ iE 3.44 4.05 4.60 3. 7J 4.34 4.55 3.33 4,25 4,oo 3.94. '4.18 •· oa· 4 .• 15 4,86 2,50 4.91 3,31 4,00 3,35 4,38 4.28 4. () 0 ~.as I, 72 1.13 1.14 ··13 :,46 . • 27 t 36 .29 ·29 .27 ·10 .25 '8!) .37 .60 .oo ,44 00 50 3~ 00 .G SE . . . Union (;qlleae C:ourse Evaluation· 'UNION\ ~'-S'G'E\ 'C'OURSE EVAloi~ATlO~ CALl. SEC COI.)QSI; TYPE 3;1011-01 360011,..01 380011·01 J8tt131 .. 01 38•0!4 ... 01; 3811:3',~01 400012-01. 4000:1;~-01 400Q.?0 ... 01 400032'-01 40()0~2-01 4·00070 .. 01 420010 .. ·01 420011 .. 01 • 420011-.01 42001:1;•02 420012•01 420133~!11 420145 ... 01 42()149-01 420152PQ1 ' 4201¢2-01 42016.~ .. 01 42.0173~01 420189-01 440010 .. 01 440035-0l: 440060-01 440112-01 440120-51 440124-01 . 44014 0-51 460011)·01 460201·51 460202~51 4 7015:1.-51.' 4702U.-51 i 470212~51 470214 .. 51 470219-51 470219 ... 5;,:' 470225-51 4 70234 .. 51 47026.()-51 490010-01 5100U-01 510 014 .. 01 510'015~01 510044 ... 01 510149-01 5:!,0156 .. 01 510170-01 510176 .. ill, 510180~01 520012~01 5200.1~ ... 02 520014~01 520t)t,4' .:.p2 ~ea .. ou --· R RUS .. OU R SPN\' OU. ~ SPN ... 131 ~ SPN• :2,44 R SPN• 13, R 'PHL .. ()12 R· . PHL• 013 R P.Hl; • 020 R PHL.• 032 R ~Hl.• 062 R PHI.• (170 R PS ... Q10 ~ P$ .. 011 -. PS .. 011 -~ PS .., QU. R PS • 012 R Ps ... 133 ~ PS '\' ;1.45 fl PS • 149 l PS .. 152. q PS .,.. 162 R PS ... 166 R PS ... 173 R PS .. 1.89 R soc ... 010 ~ soc- 035i R s·oc- o6:0 ~ soc- 112 q SOC· 120 R .soc- 124 A soc- 14o ~ STA· 010 R STA- 203, ~ ST.A .. 2 02 ~~ lA .,; l;51 r~ lA -.211 !1 [A ... 2i2 fl lA • 214 R IA•219 q- IA .. 219 q I A .. 22.~ ~ .I A - 234 R IA - 260 R ACC- 010 ~ BIO ... 01.2 R B J o .. 014 · R BID• Q1S R BIO- OH· . R B r.o .. 1. 49 R BIO· :1,56. R BlO• 17Q,: R BID• 17(r . R IHO• 180 R BIO- 012 I. B!O· Q12 L ·S 10:.. 014 ~ Bl·D~ 014~ : L. CALL· SEC COURSE TYnE ~ L L 1.. l. I~ L L l. !.. l. L !:, L !.. U!:Si,;fliPTlON- BAS Hi Heaaew II BAS fC RU:)SUN II !;IASlC ~PANISH I! lNlRO SPAN•AMER LIT THE t$96 t?ENE.RAT ION SPAN Ii.iiM LANG ABROAD PHf~QSOPHJCAL PRoes ETi-tlCS CUSS lCAL I;.OGlC: MODER~ P~JLOSOP~Y PHIL & ~X1Sf£NTL LIT PHt!,[,)$PHY OF' Sc:lENCE COMPAiil POLIT ANAL,YS AMER RO~ltJ;t. SYST~M .AMEH P.O~ 11' I OL. SYSTEM' AMEli li\'01,. I HCL SYSTEM lNTiirRNAT lONI., 8·E!.,ATNS Pot.lTlCAL OEVELOPMN1 CH J NE S E POl;, .B.EHAVI OR CO~PA~ PUL~TCS SEMNR SQV It:; T F OR:GN P.Q.L, ICY JU!J'lCIAI. SYSTEM F'RESHlEN.TL. POL <IT ICS CO~~A' STATE PVLITCS POL SCl S.fiMINAR EvnL~IIO~ HUMAN Soc SOC1A~ CONFLICT SQCL.. RESHGH METHODS AMERICAN SOCieTY W0\1E:N MOLl AMER SOC POLITiCAL SOC!Ql,QGY BLACK COMMUNITY !N'l'RQ SlATtSTICS PROB & SfATJSTJCS STATISfiCAL METHODS BEHAVJOHAL SCIENC€ 1 I NTRQ._MA.NA(3ER I At. ACT MGt-~T QON fRO·!.. Sy STE;MS AME~ liCO R<OLICY INTNQwSYSfEMS ANA~YS lNTRO~SYSTEHS ANALYS INDUS7RIAL RELAT II 0RGANl~AfN~·THEORY BUS POLGY DET~RM t •ccOUNJNij PR!Nc!PLES CELl. l:il ULOGV AN!MLS-ORIG!N&DVRSTY CQNTINUlf¥ Of ~IF~ CyTOLOGY BIO~HYS CELL PHVSIO~ ANIMAh URGANOGE~ESiS ENQ0Cf.l1NOLQGY ENDOCRINOLOGY 6IOCH~MISTRY CELl.. BIOLOGY CELL BlOLt'JGY AN ! ttL S.,. 0 ~ I G I N ~ D VR STY INIMLS ... QHI~IN&DVRSTY J:JI::bCRIPTIQN ANTMLS-UHIGIN~OVRST¥ Co•~T li\.oUll ¥ OF LIFE CO~ll~UJIY ~f LIFE CYTOLOGY 810PHY~ C~Ll PHYSIO~ AN I MAL .0~ GA N.OG E r·J!~.Sl 5 4NtMAL bHGANnGE~ESIS FU~P CH.I:MISTRY I ~-UIIJD (-Ht:M IS TRY I FU~U CHkMISTRY II ~=' U \J{) C: H'f.: M 1 S TRY r I F' !.J'~ U C H f: M I S I -l v 1 I r.:~nu CHt:i\ISnv li OR')ANl\.: t:HE'1JS-:-Ry I I 0R~4N1C: t:~E~!ST~Y II AbV lNOHGA~C CHE~ 11 CH~r1 1:\Jc I 1-<tH!f::,JT AT I Q,'J PHYS l CAL G'i~'l I I I AD\/ Or<i.iAN IC C'IE!t I I FU'.J.J Ctit:M 1 S TRY I FU\JU CHI::vJISTRV I FU~Jil Grl.ct:\'ISTRY I I F'~J\!IJ CHr.:~ I S_TRY I I FU.\JU GHt::M-lSTr{V I l FUNU GrltM[STRY II ORQANIC t;HE'1ISTRY 11 OR·t:;,Hnr.; t;i1f:~)3\!\.H I I 0R.SANIG. CHE;I'-1!STRY I l QRr\;AN!C: {.;i1H1ISTRY ll 0R'3'\:Jlt,; t; +EM! 3T~Y I I OR~ANlG C:HEM[ST~Y II CHEM l~SIRU~ENTATIO~ FU\JU Cdt::MlSTRY I FU~U (.;~~MiSTRY II PfJV:,Ir..:AL (;;f:JLOGY OCF.ANOGHAPriY PHV~lC:At. GEQLJ'JY OCF.ANOG'IAPHY CALGULU:i I r,J\J.Gl)LJ;-i 1 CAL~Ui..U~ 11 C A.l L: U L US I I CAI,.CUL.U!:l 11 CA.L.'•U<-U~ i I CAL(.;ULU·c ll CALt:UL.U~ I I ':AJ.GUL.Ub Ill CALGULJ::> 1 i 1 lNTHO LG~tC~SET THE0 PRQtiA::llL! l'V' ~RrylN OI~F ~QUATIONS ~R11N UJ~F ~Q~ATIONS A8S1HACT A~G~~RA I Ag'.)T 1HG I A,_::;t;.3i~A I I. I 'll::A\'< AL'.ii';Ll•~A I I CQ~PL=X ANALY~!S Ve~~~~ ~ TE~SJR ANAL 520014-03 BID- 014 520015-01 era-· u1., 52oo15-o2 era- ·o1., 520044-02 8!0- 044 ~20149-01 8!0- 149 520156-01 810- 156 ?20156-02 '810- 156 540010-01 CHM- 010 540010-02 CHM- 010 ?40012~01 C~M- 012 5 4 0 0 12' -·0 2 c J.,i '+- 0 12 540012-03 CHM- 012 540012-04 Cri~- 012 5400J2 .... 01 CHM- '032 540032-02 CH~- o~z 540118·-01 CHM- 11l:i 540142'-Dl CHM- 142 54~154~01 CH~- \54 540232-51 CHM- 232 ?50010-01 CHM- 010 ?50010-03 CHM- 01J 550012-01 CHM .. il12 550012-02 t::HM- 012 550012~03 CHM- J12 550012-04c CH-M .. 012 550032-.01, 'GHN• 032 ?5D032-0~ C~M- 032 ?5003.2-04·.· CH.M- ·032 55oo32~os CHM- o32 550032-06 CNM- 032 ~50032-07 CHM- a32 550142-01 CHM- 142 ?60010-01 CHM. 010 56.0012-01 CH~h~ 012· 61o~to~o1 ~eo- o1u 610051-01 GEO• 0~1 62001a-Ol GEO- 010 620051-01 GEO· 05.!. 640010-01 MTH- 010 640010-02 MTH- OiU 640012-01 ~THv 012 640012-02 MTH. 01~ 640012-03 MTH• 012 640012·04 MTH· 012 640012~05 MTH• 012 640012-06 MTH- 012 640014-01 MT~w 014 64~0}4-02 HTH· 014 640018-01 ~TH- ~1d 640028-01 MTH- u~d 640030~01 MTH· 030 640030-02 HTH- 03U 640032-01 Mt~- 032 640032-02 MT~- U32 640042-Dl MTH- 042 640106-51 ~TH• 106 640128-01 MTH· 12d 6 4 0 13 7 \'o0\1 - \'1 Ti-l_. 13 7 ~· REAL VA111ARt..!!:S II .• , JNS Hll)C TOR WeL.KOVICS ,JcRNAKOFF VJNICK ASflZ ASTI! 8RISTOL,. 8YNAGL~ ~YNAGLI:t PETERSON ?IUERSBN E~LISlON I;.,IJOWlG NORMAN WALBEK NJCI+OLS HARTWIG HART!H~ NORMAN WALBE;( NicHOLS THURSTON NICHOLS GAT I. OANIELS l;lANlELS Ti OHARCH ~HARUT ~~!ERNE TTE , WERNETTE K\JSTER&R GRAC.E Y HOLlON WERNETTE HA~ICK HOISI<A MAC F Mil, AND i.iOSS GRIES lNGt;:R HOY MAClARlELLO FINKELSTEIN ~CHMEE M IRABH,E ~IH1NER SHAPIRO M l'L.LSOfl GARVIN KAUTH 1..AM8~RT ROTH SVTZI:L i,;IRBAN l.AMBf;RT RAPPAPORT ROTH d UTT!;RST E IN dlRECKA 1..-AMBERT !,A.MBERT ROTH ROT·H INS fKU~TOR reOTt1 .JAL...Gl.t:TSH l.iALGLE:lS·I '.,Ji-loAN i,...AMBERT kAPPAPORT RAPPAPORT ;:.CHAEf f:R ::iGAI\'c SCAlf:'!: ~ChAE:f'ER riiJLL ::iUTTER SHEFFEK ::>ow A •.JEi CK ·.~ i::!~ r~ t:R ;;,uTTER HULL ·~E 1 C!< SCAiFE rlULL \' :'lAR r l N l~E:ICK. ::IOWA SOWA '· SHEFF'J:;J{ \\i r-1 ART 1 N ' HliL I. r1ULL 6HE:FFER >~ERNER SCHAEf-I:R SCA.!FE t..IMt-'E~I'1AN L!i-tMERMAN 1.. I,\\ M·E :~MA :~ t.! MMtHM '\! 'p lNG f~OULIH1 .::>T::JTIJE MAIJDAIJS 1-.E:ACrl ~.rO<,~GH(.. fN ~IL..LETTE 1: AIRCHILD 1-lA!)DAU:; SEl !<F.:i\1 s r s; ·~F. i Q.,-<;~GA i.,.I:ACH ro\NGA :. O~JGHL IN lw !.''1 G rAJ~CHILJ ~::.ILLETTE tiE:II<E,\l r~ Oi.J LI ::!·~ ENR RPT PCT 12 10 20 12 12 15 17 !1;9 32 17 31 8 20 37 37 32 34 14 22 13 :1;6 S3 22 18 13 19 20 13 10 12 10 71 2? 23 13 B 24 2·0 11 14 '8 19 14 36 32 38 68 36 20 29 18 74 74 26 19 19 :3.7 21 0 0% 0 0\ ~9 95~ 12 100% 10 83% 0 O% 0 0\ 11 57% 0 O% 9 52% 16 51% 7 87% t4 70% 32 86% 0 O% 28 87% 20 !58% 11 78% 18 81% 12 92% 14 87% 24 72% 19 86% 11 61% 12 92% 15 78% 14 70% 10 76% 10 100% lO 83% 8 80% 33 46% 0 O% 0 0% 0 .Q% 0 0% 0 0% 0 0% 0 O% o o% 0 O% 0 0% 0 O% 0 Q% 26 81% 34 89% 0 0% 34 94% 0 O% 32 110% j;8 1 OO% 0 0% 65 87% 22 84% 18 94% 15 78% 16 ' 94% 21 100% E NR RPT PeT 16 17 19 l,O 16 9 9 37 30 19 22 23 20 52 41 18 19 4 6 23 25 12 13 23 15 18 11 18 13 16 iB 11 71 85 45 37 45 38 31 30 22 40 ?8 26 24 30 2t 20 10 1() 18 20 1~ 17 9 10 6 10 15 93% 17 100% 17 89% 0 O% 0 O% 10 111% 8 88% 29 78% 23 76% 0 O% 18 81% 18 78% 20 100% 42 SO% 39 95% 8 80% 19 100% 4 100% 6 100% 19 82% 19 76% 10 83% 17 94% 0 O%. 10 66% 12 66% 10 ·9o% 17 94% 9 . 69% 0 O% !8 1 OO% 0 0% 49 69% 73 85% 35 77% 23 62% 0 Q% 0 O% 31 lOS% 22 73% 19 86% . 38 95% 27 96% 23 88% 20 83% 27 90% 18 85% 15 75% 7 70% 18 94% 18 100% 17 85% 9 90% 14 82% 5 55% 10 1·00% 0 O% 9 90% Supplement to Concor5_/~eli$~s. -.. Page G WI~TER TERM 1~72 - 7J A 5 7 4 4 7 3 3 12 3 3 ~ l.i 6 6 5 5 2 5 6 3 6 6 2 4 e 8 5 2 6 4 20 7 7 7 3 7 6 5 H. 2 10 10 HI 18 9 6 15 10 30 30 e B 4 7 ~ !) 6 9 3,2 7 !) 11 ~ 11 16 16 1-7 22 !) :1;3 -4 5 12 6 13 7 7 6 5 3 5 2 $./ 3 13 4 ) 6 5 1 1 11 2!> 11 13 24 . 15 11 i,1 8 24 24 1.5 c 1 0 5 0 2 0 3 0 2 0 4 0 3 0 u. 2 2 1 14 2 1 0 2 0 9 2 9 2 9 1 7 0 4 2 3 0 2 0 6 0 j,4 :L 7 l 2 :t. 2 0 3 ·o 4 0 3 0 3 0 0 0 3 0 4 () 12 0 1 0 2 0 0 I) 2 0 0 0 1 0 0 0 1 0 1 0 7 4 9 5 21 3 12 0 3 0 0 0 0 0 18 0 18' p •• 0 7 0 WINTER TERM 1972 - 7~ A 6 7 3 2 6 Hl 15 9 2 2 1 2 6 8 8 4 3 20 11 7 11. 8 9 4 6 ~ 9 5 3 2 5 4 l '' 4 B 11 9 9 11 6 8 20 12 -5 14 1 2 17 13 1J 12 9 10 !) 1,2 3 11 7 6 1 9 6 7 4 I 0 5 4 4 c 9 8 5 7 6 2 10 17 4 3 1 2 D 3 l r CO~~SE INSTR KNnWLG NO R!;SPONSE 0 1 1 0 0 0 0 0 1 1 0 1 2 - 2 () 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 1 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 2 0 0 F 0 0 NO RESPONSE St~l 3,42 4.31 ~~06 •• 41 4,33 3!70 4.30 4.~Q NO RESPONSE NO RESPONSE 2,72 ~.45 3.70 NO RESPONSE 3~22 4,00 4,0U 4,po J.6a 4.37 4!~8 4.42 4.28 3e71 3,92 3,92 3;o9 3,12 3,62 . NO RESPONSE 4t1G 4,25 4,39 ~,1$ 3.35 4.oo .,~5 4,81 4.63 J,ea 4,o5 J.a2 •;e3 4,83 4.5o 4,14 4,35 4,71 3;sa 3,75 4.16 3,e9 4.o5 •. 1o 3,27 3.36 4,09 4.75 4.75 4,91 3;60 3.40 3.85 3;14 2.85 4.00 3,80 3,60 4,10 3~80 3.90 4.40 3;3~ 3.10 3.3o 3,87 3,7$ 4.00 IN~UFFICJENT RESPONSE . NO RESPONSE NO RESPONSE NO -RESPONSE NO RESPONSE ,NO RE;:SPONSE NO RESPONSE NO RESPONSE NO RESPONSE NO RESPONSE NO RESPONSE NO RESPONSE NO RESPONSE 3!50 2.88 3,50 3,a6 3,29 4.26 NO RESPONSE 4~02 3.8i 4.57 NO RESPONSE. 3~46 3.68 4.31 4,55 4o8S 4,94 NO RESPONSE 4,30 4.44 4.46 3,90 3.63 4.86 6,33 4.29 4.16 ~,06 2o93 3.13 3,68 ~ .• 81 3 •. 93. 4,ZJ 4,38 4,50 CO~RSc INSTR KNOWLG 3t60 2.86 3,73 3,58 3.93 4.52 3,7o 3·88 4.58 · NO RESPONSE NO RESPONSE 4.2o 4.9o 4.9o J 1 5o 4,62 4.50 3,62 3.93 4.51 3,73 4.3o 4.47 NC)' RESPONSE 3!77 4.16 4.22 J,77 3.94 4,00 3.75 •• 45 4.30 3,69 4.04 4.33 2i92 ~.35 4.23 2,67 2·87 3.87 4;68 4.78 4.78 3;75 4j25 4,25 4,66 4.5Q 4.16 3,52 4.15 4.33 3, 36 4 .16 4. o·s 3,40 4.20 4.2Q 3;52 4.29 4.41 . NO ReSPONSE 3,60 3.7Q 4.10 3i58 4·00 4.66 4,~o 4;6o 4.8d 3i7o . 4.82 4.82 3t22 4.33 4,33 . NO ~~SPQNSE . 3,55 3.83 4.5o NO RESPONSE 3,50 3.83 4.40 3!10 3.38 4.0~ 3\65 3·97 3.77 3,~5 3.65 4.QS . NO RESPONSE NO RESPONSE Jo38 3o96 4.Q9 3,18 3.4Q 4.QO 4,po 4.22 4.84 3i6J 4,18 4,44 3,~8 3.37 4.11 4,30 4,69 4,69 3,00 2,85 4,25 3t48 3.74 4.29 3;sa 4.44 4,33 3;06 3.20 4,13 4 1 oo 4.71 4,a5 2,94 2.77 3.44 3;61 4.oo 4,16 2,68 3.00 3.70 4;33 4.55 4,66 3,57 3.64 4,21 3,80 4.20 4.40 3,55 4.10 4.40 . NO RESPONSE 3.77 3.66 4.11

Page H- Supplement to Concordiimsis Unto.n· Collqe Course Evaluation UNJQIII t:OI..L&GE CQI;JRSF. EVAI.UAT ION WINTER TERM 19/2 - 7J CALL SEC COURSE TYPE Dt:SI;;:i!PTIQN lNSTtWCTOR \ ENR RPT PCT A 8 c D F COYRSI:: INSTR KNOWLG 640138-01 MTH• 13~ ::? ·~lJL 1 1 ~A~ 1 A3L,.E CALC .ilLLETTE 11 0 OX 4 .s 1 3 0 Nt) RSS.PQNSE 640171-01 MTH• 171 ~ ToaOLilGY I I FAlRCPilLD 6 3 50·X 5 0 0 0 0 lleOO 4.33 \·33 660011-01 PHY• 011 ~ IN TKO TO ~1-fYSICS I S>~~ARTl 25 23 92% 7 15 2 0 0 .S,:$4 4.30 -4.26 660011•02 PHY.,. 011 '-? INTI'iO 10 F'HVSlCS I JWARTl 27 23 85% 9. 13 4 1 D 3~~6 4.21. ...52 610011-01 PHV• 011 :::t IN THO ro ~<'HVS!CS 1 IIi J I'IOS'OH 11 11 100% 2 ~ 4 0 I) 2' 5·4 2·36 4.oo I, 670011-02 PHY• 01:1. ~ lNT~O ro f1,-fVS I CS I tiAl.L 14 12 85% 4 7 3 ;Q D 2,25 2.66 3,.75 .. 670013~01 ?HY• l) 1·5 ~ lNTI'iO TO P.-!VS!CS I I f I TUS i6 14 87\ 2 6 7 0 1 3.42 3,78 4,35 C< 670017-01 PHY- :)17 q •·fa '1!: H ,~; 'l\'iV5 I t:;S I l li:Ji:iLE 5 5 100\ 3 1 1 0 0 . 3;60 3 .• 40 4.(1o tl 670024-()l PHYs 024 ~ <iH I h flGAL. THERr10 l.E:\~ IS 7 6 85\ t 6 0 0 () .s,83 3.66 3.83 a 670123~01 PHY- 12J q rw: PL.AIII!::.f F.MHH w SCH\.JARZ 9 0 ox 5 .s 1 0 I) NO RESPONSE 67·0133-81 PHY· 13J q EL EC; T .& MA·2i\JET !Si>l ll I~ SCH'.oiARZ :t3 0 O% 3 !) 0 2 1 NO RESPONSE ~ 680011-01 PHV• 01.1 L TN T'HO l 0 P!-iYSICS J ,; ::i+l AR r I. · 23 0 0\ NO RESPQNSE A 680011 ... 02 PHY· 011 L lNTI~O TO P>;YSICS I ·riAt..L 1B 15 83% 3,96 3.33 3.85 n 680011~03 PHY~ 011 1.. lN1\tW I(.) r'f.IYSICS I l;,EW!S 16 15 93\ 3,46 3,73 4,20 n 680011-04 PHY• 01'L !. lNTRU ro f-l!HS lCS I HALL. 21 21 100% 2.14 2.85 3,80 n 680013-01 PHY• 013 L lt.JTI~O Hl Pr!YS IC'3 I I TITUS 16 14 87% 3~14 3.28 4,14 C< 680133-01 PHY .. 13J L ELEC f & MAGNETISM I I I~ SCriAHl 11, 0 O% NO RESPONSE 710010-01 PSY· 011) ·~ !NT~O f\~YC:-IOLOGY 11uillTL.l:'f 22 18 au 5 4 7 5 0 4.44 4.88 4,72 VI 71.0010-02 PSY· 010 't INTI< 0 P\:iYC~OLOGY ~ ;\ NC Y WALBEK 3S 15 42% 15 15 4 D 0 lN~Vn.IC!ENT RESPONSE a 710010-03 PSY· 01\1 '1 lNTi1Q t'SYC-lOL:JGY :icnTl-lOL.D 25 15 53% 1l. 12 2 1 l J,6o 3.53 3,73 ~'.] 710010-04 PSY· 01;) ~ lNT'1U f~YC!iOLuGY .•EiNMAN .28 25 89% 2 9 12 4 0 3,80 4,04 4.16 Cl 710020-01 PSY· 020 q '3TA11Sllt;At,. M.$:THOOS d·ERTH0\.0 55 35 63% 1~ ~6 13 4 0 2;e5 J.oe 3,80 tl 710024-01 PSY· 024 i1 sociAL P!:iYCHOtQ!)Y ·~ t: ·~ fl'l A\' 53 40 75% 12 26 1.1 .1 1 3,55 3.77 3,89 710030-01 PSY· 030 !~ THEOHY 0~ PER'iONAL ry l.iH AVES 65 0 O% 3 27 27 6 0 NO ~:ESPONSE 710031-01 Psy .. 03l 1 A B \Jl) !->I'M A l. P'3 VO:::·lQL.O'GY P!:ARCE 28 23 82% 5 9 14 0 0 4,56 f .21 4,73 n 710035-01 Psv .. 03b n ORGA'\IJ.LA I tONAL PSY~n i.it~AVES 38 0 ox 6- Jl 1C 4 1 NO RESPONSE (i 71.0038-01 Psv ... 0 3·:3 ~ CH P..J. 1-'~ Y CH :lL vGY ~~A:~cv •~AL.BE~ 45 33 73% 0 24 20 0 0 3~15 3o(JQ 3.84 I 710040-01 PSY· 04iJ :~ ADO~I::.;,Ct:NT PSY'CtiOLGY ~ANCY AAI.8E:K 17 16 94% 5 5 5 0 0 ~~87 3,53 4.oo n 710045-0l PSY· 1)4~ q EXP~HlM 1-'SYCrlOLGY I I tiU ~TlEY 14 14 :1,00% 6 6 2 0 0 4 ~ 71 4.71 4.78 ·e1 710048-01 Psv .. Q4d 1 ~LINICAI. tJSYCHOL,GY 1 uo:.o~u NG 28 17 60% 14 1l 3 0 0 J! 41 3.23 3,41 710050-01 PSV. 050 q ~DiJGA f ~ UNL PSYCHOLGY lilHDI\IEH 24 18 7!)% 6 15 1 1 0 3,55 3 ·11 3.76 tl .. 710063·01 Ps·v. J6J ~ '=HHU SfU)V l I \.i I r'l.ONEf.i 20 14 70% 10 7 2 0 1 3, 9:2 3.92 4.14 e . ' : 720045-01 PSY\' 04~ !.. E)(PtHIM t->SfCHOLOGY i>IUNTU:I' 14 . 14 100% 4,14 4.71 4.85 s 740011-01 ES - 01:1 ~ IN1'rl0 i:.l\il.i j:IJ ')V'STS I I u\ 1 SCOLL 23 18 78% 7 11 4 1 0 3; 83 3.83 4.16 I< 7400;1.1-01 i;S . 011 1 IN TKO 1:1\il.iiN SYSTS I I iJ 1 :\UL 23 0 0% 7 u· 4 1 0 NO RESPONSE 740011-02 ES 011 ~ INT>iQ E: 1\i (.j I:IJ SYSTS I l \JALAI\Jl OW I CZ 31 25 80% 7 12 11 0 1 3~60 4.12 4.Q4 Sl - 740011-03 J:S 011 1 IN THO 1::1\JliiN SYSTS I I cr SP~S r A'H 22 19 86% 10 6 5 1 0 4. 21· 4,26 4,47 740011-03 t:S - 011 1 !NTHO t:: 1\ili .IN SYSTS I I ..lAL.A\ilOWICZ 22 19 86% 10 6 5 1 0 ,3.78 4.;?6 4,26 4 740011-04 ES .. 011 q INTkO t:Nu!N S'(STS 11 Pli\Ul. ;t7 21 123% 6 ., 2 1 0 3~42 3.85 4,14 740011-04 ES .. 011 R IIIJTt<O i::NG!N S.fSTS I I ;)~ SCOLL 1'7 5 29% 6 I 2 1 . 0 IN!:iUnlCIENT R~SPONSE 740020-01 ES .. 020 R :-1ECrlAN L r.;::; 1·11 TT AL 23 0 0% 14 8 1 Q 0 . NO RESPONSE 740022-01 ES - 022 q sci OF t:NG PJ \'1ATERLS P~l1 TER 25 23 92% 2 12 11 0 0 3~60 4.39 4,341 740024-01 ES .. 024 ~ F.LEI.:T~IC CJf<CUITS GOU1H~E:ART 1\J 9 90% 5 2 3 0 0 4, 77 4.88 5 .oo 740026-01 ES - 02o q THE~MJ & ~F. AT TRANSF Ali!:.JREY ?.6 2,j 88% 4 6 11 2 3 3dl4 3.50 4,041 740030-01 J:S ... 030 q MEr:::• Ql- UtF\OR SOLIDS F' A ,'-JL 1 L l 0 8 8 100% 1 .s 3 1 0 3,62 4.:37 4,50 740033-51 E:S ... 033 q F'liJ !0 SY::i AN4t..YSIS YI~~N JONES l,9 16 84% 4 8 5 1 0 J! (1'0 3.5Q 4.53 750020-01 ES • 020 l.. \'~ECHANlC!::i •11TTAL 2J 0 O% N.O RESPONSE 750024-01 ES .. 024 t. ELECl~lC C l RC•J ITS LiiJJDI-IF.o\HT 4 0 0% NO RESP·ONSE 750024-02 ES . 024 L Et~~Ti.llG CIRCUITS •;oooH.t ~.RT 6 0 0% NO RESPONSE 7500;s0-01 ES - 030 L MECH ur JJEFOR SOL IDS PANL!LlO 8 0 0% NO RESPONSE 770030-Ql CE - 030 '~ '5TflUC hlkl=S I r'J;\.UL 20 18 90% 2 ~ 11 2 0 J, 11 3.11 4,05 770031-01' CE . 031. ~ ':NGll\lcl;~lNG D'=SIGN (; wiLLlA;-IS 11 0 0% 6 ., 0 0 0 NO RESPONSE 770rl41-.01 CE .. 041. 1 ENGll\li:t:HlNG LAW dARLOW 23 19 82% 6 12 4 1 Q 4,26 4,52 4.10 770044-01 CE 04:4 EN'; lN.:&:t-1! !i:J PI~ A \IN l'J:i HRLOo'/ 19 105% 2 J,JS 4. 3$' : 4,55 . 1 20 10 I 0 -0 770049-01 CE - J49 ~ ENV Ifhli\IMI::~TAL E~JGR I ..; A ..:iLS rJo'-1 12 10 BJ% 2 4 3 J 0 J,7Q 3.5o 3.60 770214-51 CE .. 214 1 UR q Al'\1 T~AI\ISPO Pi,.AN\1 .::iJLYEA 6 0 0% 1 ., 0 0 0 NO RESPONSE 77022()-51 CE .. 220 1 COf\1-:~TI'IUGII:J!\1 '-1ATU) JE:..LA I I~ 12 0 0% 8 4 0 0 0 NO RESPONSE 780030-01 CE . 030 1.. STQUCliJri!:S I ?!KUL. 20 18 90% 2,33 3.22 4.17 i.;t-J t'}Ul .(;.Ob.LE,:;E \;QLJRSE. !:'\Al.UA T I ON Cl wiNTER TERM ~972 ~ 73 of Cc CALL SEC COURSE TY:;)F ;Ji:::::OGRJPTJON I NSHWCTOR ENR RPT PCT A 8 c D F coy~sE !NSTR KNOWI.G 81 in 780031-01 CE .. 031 1., l:N~ lNI::I:rll ·liS DESIGN c -JILLlAMS u 0 0% NO ReSPONSE 01 780044-01 CE - iJ44 L ~NGlNi:;f.:~-<~U~G PLA'IINING 'i<\RLD!ol 19 0 O% NO RESPONSE 780049-01 CE - 04\1 L. ENVlHIJ\lMt:\'TAL ENGR l .;A\'LSIJN 13 0 0% Nei. ReSPONSE' 810009-01 EE OO'i '3 ~::u;c r !;:i'ILiHi\IG SEMI NM~ rH.lf FMAN 9 (} 0% NO RESPONSE Fr 610009-02 EE .. ;J 0 '1 s Eu.:~;r E:I\!GR:-JG Sp1JNAR DI-I[SCOLL 8 4 50% 2,~0 3,25 3,00 810032-01 EE 032 q Sr: '1! CI:J NOUC T1~ 'lEV&CIR uAJJAR 12 .. 23 19 82% 6 9 5 ~ 0 3,7~ 3,47 4~42 810032-51 EE . iJ32 q SE'-11 c;o:~OUGTH 'lEV &CI R lNGVAH::iSON 17 0 0% 9 !) 3 0 0 NO RESPQNSE BG 810141-01 EE - 141 q EN~HGY ~ONVER3ION lNGVAH::iSON 6 s 83% 2 ~ 2 0 0 3,60 3,60 3. 60 be 810143-0l EE ... 14.S q ~LECfo1QMAGNETr;; THE OR D~ISCOI.L 6 5 83% 2 J 0 0 0 3!60 4.oo 4. 00 810212-51 EE .. 212 ~ I\ pOl. lNft:GRA CIRCUIT liAJJAR 5 5 100% 1 3 0 0 0 3 1 po 3.60 41,80 810234-51 EE 234 ~~ L0.•1lCAL lJESIGt'l I HOF FMMJ 23 21 91% 9 3 7 J 0 4 .~o 4,76 4,80 \V 620032-01 EE .. 0·32 L. SE~lC•JNlJUCTR DE'o/&CIR GALANTUWICZ 22 18 81% 4,38 !!1.17 3,94 WI 820141-01 EE . 141 L ENEI'<GY CO~VERSJON Ii\JGVARSSOI\1 5 0 O% ' NI,J Rf:SPQNSE (d 840009-01 ME \)09 .. '1ECH t: c.;~ i\JG SE~INAR KETCHUM ' 4 0 O% NQ ReSPONSE D: 640222-51 ME 222 1 'IIOf\1-Lii\J~A'~ DYI4 SYS 8!: VI!::H 13 0 0% 11 2 0 Q 0 NO RESPONSE N 870012-IH cs . J 1.2 q FQqfRAN PROGR,\M~ I ti.JG HARTWIG 39 :1.2 30% 1~ 11 11 4 1 I N;:!J.IF'F I C J ENT RESf:'ONSE Ti 870014-51 cs . 014 q CQgOL&ilA I A <JROCESS ;) T~ELLL~.ECH T 9 9 :trJ 0% 7 0 1 0 0 3~4-4 ~.ae 4,44 870018-01 cs ou ~ !JIG! IL. fu - G0.1P PR JiiJCPi.S 11C KEOWN 28 19 67% 7 12 7 1 0 J!~2 3,57 4,00 870022-01 cs .. 022 ~ \IU '-lt::R Mf- lrl·C0 1 ·1PUTERS CRAIG 17 16 94% 3 5 6 J 0 2t87 4.18 w 4,18 870126.,01 cs 1?6 ~ AnV S·l~ T ·~A f~F. IJESI GN G w !LUAMS 9 7 77% 7 1 0 Q 0 4;42 4.2S 4,00 irr 870131-51 cs - 131 ~ 4LSUJ1 LA Nr~ & GQr~PL!~;; rt ICHARIJ DANIEL 29 27 93% 11 9 5 0 0 3-$9 3o22 4,33 870146-51 cs 146 q DATA S IH lJG fURt-:S I~ ~ILL!A\1S 23 •• - 26 92% 8 14 4 1 0 3~73 3•92 4tfl3 870234-51 cs . 234 9 I.OGlt:AL UF::S I G'~ I 11C KEOWN 7 7 100% 5 2 0 0 0 3,85 ~ .• 42 3.14 5I

se 12 history ;ports :ge, the I Chi dr best st the ved on ·esday, aptain 8ruce their mabie s they ~ Sigs ayers. 'ollins I Chi. BrU£e :imes, Jwley I one John game any se or tg as team or founded at Union College in 1877 ~ Recycle This _Paper~ Vol. 102, No, 51 Commence·ment Speaker Named H award Simons, the managing editor of the Washington Post, wiH give the principal address at commencement cereml'>nies Saturday, June 16, at Union College. Simons, a 1951 gradl\ate of Union, will receive the honorary Doctor of Letters degree at the exercises ending the College's I 78th academic year. Hpward Simons . ' Wednesday, M~y 30, 1973 20 eents Steering Committee: Rathskellar Incorporated by ALAN GNESSIN The Steering Committee • convened for its last session of the term this past Monday night in ··• South College's first floor lounge. · All representatives were in attendance, with the exception of Koh.el Haver '76, who was unable to attend due to a class. The first piece of business to ' come before the Committee in : session, that was low-keyed ' compared to the previous meeting, was the annual meeting came from Debbie Glasser who, due to her expected absence from the campus during the Fall term, felt that it would be unfair to the Committee and the school if she were appointed to this important committee. Based on Debbie's initial remarks, the· nominations were returned to the Committee- on-Committees. The commencement speaker first joined the Washington Post as a' science wi·iter in 1961. He was named .an assistant managing editor in 1966, deputy managing editor four years later and has been managing editor of the ·largest daily in the nation's capitol since August, 1971. ~Carnival Weeke-nd of the Rathskella-r Corporation of Union College. The Rathskellar Corporation was set up a number of years ago as a legal entity under the auspices of the Student Government, which was to be run in its day-to-day operation by a Board of Directors. The Board is responsible for \lpkeep of the Skeller, as weU as menu items, prices, and contracting for a food service to run 1the operation. In this annual meeting of the corporation, the minutes were read from the previous meeting by D.ean Malloy, who also sits on flie Board of Owk~tors with two student represe'rttatives, '-the President of the Student Body, the Chairman of the Tax Committee, and a representative of the Food Service. Following this, the present stu.den_t member of the Board, Katl1y Mitchell, put into nomination f~r the approval of the Corp.oratio.n the names of the proposed student members of the Boardi, her.sedt and that of Hugh Martin. The nominations were then a·ppreved by the Corporation. ln the ensuing question-and-answer period two points were noted that might be of some interes\t: the Corporation gets a percentage of the prQfits after. $25,000 worth of business has been done by the Skeller annually, and the Soard of Directors is planning an extension of the beverage menu to include wine for the upcoming school year. Along this same vein, the next item to be considered had to deal with the appointment of a proxy for Ms. Glasser for the fall term due to her absence. Initially, the view taken by Ms. Glasser was that she should appoint her own replacement, but this was later modified to the belief that it should be up to the Steering Committee to designate a replacement for her during this time period. With this point agreed on, the names of Mitch Weisberg and Frank Isgro were placed in nomination. Both had run in the past election for this position and come in third and An Albany, N.Y., native, Simons majored· in English at Union and after graduation attended the S.chool of Journal-ism at Columbia University. He was also a Nieman Fellow at Harvard University. He is married and has four daughter$. Union will confer approximately 632 earned degr~es, inc;luding a reeor<l 499 bachelor's degrees. Also to be awarded are an estimated 130 master's degrees and t;•re~.; doctorates, ·in the ceremonies scheduled for 5:15 P.M: on the campus. The title of Simon's speech is to be \The Founding Fathers, the Free Press and the Republic: or Don't Shred on Me.\ , by PHYLLIS EDELMAN For those who missed Carnival weekend, or any part of it. here is a brief rundown of what occurred. ·Mother Nature teasingly threatened to transfer many Carnival activities indoors this weekend,. but for the most part rain, or even its threat, did not cause Carnival celebrations any disturbance. Carnival was kicked off by a jam-packed Coffeehouse featuring the singing and strumming of seniors Kevin Drayton, Paul Delfin, Tom Parisi, 11.nd Bob Bernhardt. Each sang and played solo first. or. Wit.h a little l)elp from his friends, but they really shattered the house when the four together gave their renditions of Library Work Begins Union College will break ground for a major new addition to Schaffer Library on Saturday, June 2, in campus ceremonies marking the IOOth anniversary of the founding of Union University. The centennial event will begin at 4:30P.M. in the auditorium of the Social Sciences Building. The first annual John H. Jenkins Prize for Bibliography will be presented to University of Wisconsin English professor G. Thomas Tanselle, for his two volume Guide to the Study of United States Imprints. The major speaker will be Mr. Jenkins~ th~- Austin, Texas, rare book dealer who pla:Yed the central role i~- the recovery of the Auduban Birds of Ameriea volume which· was stolen from the callege library in 1971. Mr. Jenkins, who endowed the bibliography prize at Union with the reward money for the return of the Birds volume, will speak on \The Audubon Caper.\ Following the Jenkins talk and the presentation of the bibliography prize to Prof. Tanselle, the groundbreaking for the new addition to the Library will be held. Union's library, named; for its p-rinei:pat. benefactor, Heriry Schaffer of Schenectady, will be-nearly doubled in book capacity by the two-story addition, scheduled for completion by March, J.974. The $1.95 million addition, which will extend out the back of ~he current building, will also include additional staff space, an area- for rare books and other special items, and a larger micro-film facility. In addition to major support by Mr. Schaffer, who is a Trustee of the College, a prime source of funding for the addition c;ame from the Kresge Foundation of Detroit, Mich., which 'gave the College a $250,000 challenge grant that was successfully met. Fol:lowing the ceremonial groundbreaking, which will take place at approximately 5:30 P.M., a reception will be held in the Library courtyard. The program will mark the College's observance of the Union University centennial. The University, which includes the Albany Law School, The Albany College of Pharmacy, the Albany Medical <;ollege, and. the Dudley Observatory, as weil as Union College, was chartered in 1873. Albany Attorney Ernest B. Morris heads t.he University Board of Governors, while U.nion College President Harold C. Martin serves as University Cban.cellor. . Tlte library will be open in addition to regular hours on Saturday e~enings of · · both J.une 2 and June 9. Bel!alise of , the specia~ ceremonies on SaturdQy ~ Jun~ 2; the library -will · b~ · ·cl9sed b~\ween 4:30 _., \ p.m. and 6:00p.m. The schedule is as follows: Saturday, June 2 9:00 a.m.-4:30 p.m. 6:00 p.m.-11:00 p.m. Saturday, June 9 9:fl_O a;m,•ll:llo p.m. songs like \Rolling Stone,\ \Dead Skunk,\ \Love the One You're With,\ and \If I Were a Carpenter,\ among others. When the Coffeehouse. ended at 12:40 A.M. it 'Still wasn't time to \call it a day,\ as the night's festivities were only half over. The Night of the Living Dead had already started playing in Library Field as the crowd panned out of the Coffeehouse. After vit:Jwing that movie, it was reported that those who had the After Midnight Munchies decided not to eat meat, sticking • to vegetarian cuisine. For those who still weren't sleepy, the movie turned out to be a double-feature, with the Film Series movie, On the Waterfront following. Eyewitnesses vouch that Btando did not bring the sun up. The first fingers of light made their appearance a half-hour after the show ended, at about 5:00 A.M. Those who stayed ~ntil the end of Waterfront didn't seem to care much about the sun anyway. thinking more in terms of sleep. Saturday's activities didn't begin until the afternoon, giving time for Friday's late-nighter's (or early-morninger's) to get at least forty winks. Alpha Delta Phi and Sigma Phi- sponsored an \Outdoor Dance,\ featuing \Daddy Longlegs.\ There appeared to be more listening than dancing, as groups of students hung about, much like the c;:Jouds which hung overhead. The Richmond Block Party Saturday night was driven into the gym by t·he threat of inclement weather. Rockin' and rollin' to four bands, inany guys commented that this was \a Skidmore mixer moved to Union.\ The men claimed that they could tell \'it was a girls' dance.\ yet they appeared to enjoy themselves nevertheless. The final day of fun and entertainment, Sunday. featured three groups playing in Memorial Field. \Jonah\ was a rather musically tight group whose style of music was similar to Poco's. Following them was the \Star Spangled Washboard Band.\ One enthusiastic member of the audience commented that \their music was only outdone hy their comedy.\ \The Jeske Family,\ a country music band. was the final group performing. They lo~t much of their crowd to Saga which was serving barbecued hamhurgers and franh outdoors on West College Field. According to one freshman. a regular Saga eater. \This was the hest meal of - Continued on .page 4 The next item to come before the Steering Committee was the approval of the final committee nominations as presel)ted by the Committee-on-Cotn(fl:ittees. All were approved tl,tia•nlm~usly by the Steering Committee, with the exception of the Comprehensive Education Committee. The initial stimulus for the return of nominees for reconsideration fourth, respectively. In the consideration of these nominations. the telling factor in the final approval of Mr. Weisberg was his decisive victory over Mr. Isgro in the past election. The final two points taken up in the meeting concerned instructions to the Computer Committee to look irrto the possibility of better scheduling of the computer and the use of the related facilities in the Computer Center, and the creation. through the efforts of Debbie Glasser, of an Ad Hoc Committee to study the possibilities of initiating a Food Co-op on campu!.. All those interested in si.Ich a committee should contact Cathy lanelli, Secretary of the Committee. On that note, the Steering Committee adjourned for the summer. Concordy Questionnaire last week, questionnaires concerning student life at Union were distributed to 400 randomly selected students living on campus. With about 709(· of the responses recorded thus far, some interesting results have appeared. Responses to the question of hours per week spent on schoolwork (including classes) averaged 32 hours. although wide fluctuations occurred. Responses ranged from a low of 7 hours per week h> <lfl incredible high of 94 hours per week by a female freshman biology major ( IJ hours pet day!). Incidentally. this particular student has indicated that .she Will he changing her major shortlY. One particul~rly sig~ificant finding was the relat i've ly high degree of dissatisfaction among females with life at· Union. :-.Jearlv 35r-; of the femab indicated thai. if gi·ven the choice again. thev would not select Union. Th~ corresponding percentage for males was J9t; Thus far, Profes!;tors Berk, :'llicholos. Craig. and t1~aves ha\e received the m<1st \ otes for \Favorite Professor <m Campus.\ The ne'\l.t issue of Concordy 'wi II contain [\ li~tingio1 th(l \'To:p' Ten'' pmfcss(.)rS on cHm1ms. · A question \.Oncerning the grading system at Union revealed that 65C( of the students are dissatisfied with the present method of grading. Of those 65r; 39Ci favor adding plusses and minuses to the present grading system and 14Cf prefer a pass-fail honor system. The remaining I 2c; were split among a straight pass-fail system. elimination of all grades. and other variations. Responses to the question of the recent cumulative index inflation at Union were split between two major categories. I1Jc increasing 4uality of students (2Y.i) and lower standards of academic achievement (2Jf;) were mn!St often cited as reasons. Females (lOCi) and graduate school pressures ( 6 1 r) also received a considerable number of votes. I wenty-live percent (mostly freshmen) had no opinion on the subJect. As a. newspaper. Concordil'ltsis has not .. fared tno well t'imonl:! students. Very tew· haHi rated Concordy higher than 6 on a scale from 1-10, and the ~l\enli!C rating was sl·ightl~ higher than 4. rhc ·ne\t i,~suc of Concordiensi\ \\ill contain the final result~ or the ~urvcy. . '

.. I ',I ' i '' ' : CONCORDJENSIS, Wednesday; May 30, 19,~3. . . . ·- - Conflids in Examinations should be reported to Mrs. De G11off in t:JJe Offiee ofthe Registrar not later than Fri~y, June 1, 1!)73 • Examinations will be held in the assigned rooms. Listed below is the code of the buildings to be used. BH - Bailey Hall 'BU - Butterfield Hall iJIU - Humanities Building PY - Ps}'chology Laboratory NW- Sciente-Engineering Center (North Wing) ;SS - Social Sciences Building Sll - Steinmetz Hall SATURDAY, JUNE9 9:00~11:00 A.M. COtmp. Ed. 11; Freshman Commons in Science and Engineering Sec. 4; Introduction to Contemporary Mathemathematics-BH TQ(i, Prof. T ornga (onp. Ed. 26; The Nature and Functions of Law-SS 115-Prof. N. ADm Econ&mics 11; Elementary Economics, Part II Sec. 2; SS 113-Miss Kent Economics 135; Comparative Economic Systems-SS 117-PFof. Kersh.ner Eco.nomics 148; Introduction to Econometrics-SS 010-Prof. Hojska Eco:r~omies 149; Contemporary Economic lssues-SS· 014-Prof. Herman EQglisb 13; Major American Authors-HU llS-Prof. Gado Hishry 11; The New Nation: The United States, 1765-1815-SS ()16-'Prof. Wells Hlst.,ry 1StJ; The Soviet Period-SS 112, Prof. Berk Stanish 132; Introduction to Spanish Literature-HU 110, Mrs. Asti:z lliology 159; Plant Physiology, BH 203~· Prbf. Birecka ·lliology ltiO; Functional Histology and Organology, BU 109, P{()f. R.otb , _, Cltemlstry U; Inorganic Chemistry I, BU 106, Prof. Weick l'datlaematies 14; Calculus III Sec. 2, BH 201, Ftof. Fairchild Matlaenaaties 18; Introduction to Logic and Set Theory Sec. 2~ BH 205, Prof. Stone Hath.ematics 41; Linear Algebra, BH 102, Pro-f. Leach 1\lathtematics 130; Complex Analysis, BH 108, Prof. Bick Pll)sics 13; Introduction to Physics II, for Biology, Science and Center I StlUlents Sec. 2,. SH 110, Mr. Hall P~ydloC~bgy 10; A First Course in Psychology Sec_ 2, PY 113, .Prof. Calabria PsydaciloJy lt; Statistical Methods in Psychology, PY 102, Prof. BerthCJld: Psyc:llelol} 31; Abnormal Psychology, PY 213, Prof. Pearce PsyelloloiY 38; Child Psychology, BH 207, Prof.' Nancy Walbek ES •. 1~; !Dtroductory System Theoty, NW 116; Prof. Goodheart <:.E.4fi; Engineering Decisions, BU 204, Prof. C. Williams :E;I!:.l-44; Principles of Communication Systems, BH 104, Prof. Galantowicz M.E. ~; Engineering Design and Project Planning, SH 1 01, Prcf. Eisenstadt ' SA.TURDA Y, JUNE 9 _ · 2:oo-4:0Cl P.M. Cotnp. Ed. 86; Law in a Democratic Society, HU, 'H'5;· Mr. An.derson Economlcslll; Microeconomic Analysis, SS 113, Prof. Hoiska · Ec~namlcs 137; History of Economic Thought, BH 310, Prof. fhinllD EngiUJII lSl; Literature of the English Renaissance, HU 114, Prof. Stevens<>n P.olltieaE Selmee U; International Politics, SS 016, Prof. Gati Biolozy j40; Ethology, SS 115, Prof. George ClleiDistwy 40; Quantitative Chemistry, BU 204, Prof. Schaefer Pllyu.:s l34; Physical Optics, SH 100, Prof. Goble Psycll()logy 3S; Organizational Psychology, PY 102, Prof. Graves P!iycbdogy 50; Educational Psychology, PY 113, Prof. Girdner E . .S.l2; Systems, Computers, and Design III Sec. I, SH 101, Pmf. Driscoll Sec::. 2, :08 2()7, Prof. Craig Sec: . .3, BU 109, Prof. Be Vier See. 4, SH llO, Prof. Mittal E.E. 3.3; Analysis and Design of Electronic Circuits, BH 102, Prof. Gajja.r The delayed release of the finals scbedulle lias; caused us to change our printing schedule and we are therefore forced to put ol3ta fot~r pager this issue. Our grJtnd finale will be this Frida,.... it wiJI include a four ,page photo essay and photo- eo1:1test result section. If you 1la'4'e an3' blither or 'Bot aces for Concordy pleas~ get them to us by Thursd~y at li'Ve P .1\-t. in Student Activ iti~s. The Union College Coffee1tOuse will present the greatly anticipated, long awaited U) Finals Freebie on Friday night, June I, at 8:30 in Old ChapeL The Freebie will feature the triumphant return of Chet Arthur and his Flaming Aces a.nd will also star Dunkin' Donuts, with his accompanist, Cupa Coffee. This is the last coffeehouse of the year and will begin at 8:30 sharp, so get there early for a g9od &eat .. Final EXaminatiOn MONDAY, JUNE 11 9:00-11:00 A.M •. .. Comp. Ed. tO; Freshman Commons in Humanities and Social Sciences Sec. 5, Students and Schools, HU 014, Prof. P. Allen · Sec. 8, 'the Evolution of Human Society, HU 016, Mr. Wernette Comp. Ed. 11; Freshman Common!! in Science and Engin;eering · Sec. I, Electric Power, What it Costs, BH 104; Prof. Sutter . Sec. 2, The Polywater Contmversy, BH 106, Prof. Scaife Sec. 5, Introduction to Computer Programming ( 1) NW 222, Prof. Cr~ig (2) BH 108, Mr. McKeown • Comp. Ed. 23; The Second World War Era, SS 115, Profs. Berk and Hansen Comp. Ed. 49; Varieties· :of ,Jewish Belief, SS 016, Rabbi Zimelmau Comp. Ed. 59; Sound and Music,. BH 207, Prof. Driscoll · Economits 11; Elementary Economics, Part II Sec. 3, SS 112, Prof. Prosper Economits 134; Financial Analysis, \SS 113, Miss Kent Germ1Ul 132; Literary Movements of the 19th Century, HU 11'9, Prof. Warde . Statistics tO; Introduction to Statistics, BH 312, Mr. Mirabile Chemistry 134; Organic Chemistry III, BU 106, Prof. W. Martin Mathematics 24; Geometry., BH 205, Prof. Seiken Mathematics 100; Orthogonal Functions and Boundary Values,· .BH 203, Prof. Fairchild Mathematics 101; Advanced Calculus for Engineers, BH I 02, Prof. Gillette Psythology 10; A First Cours~ in Psy(ihology-Experimental Section, PY 102, Prof. Berthold C.E. 50; Environmental Engineeringli, .BU 300, Mr. Hardt MONDAY, JUNE ll 2;00·4:80 P.M. Etonomies 147; Urban EC<inolhics, SS 1 13, Prof. Kenney - Hebrew ll; Basic Hebrew III, HU 114, Mr. W elkovics · Russian U; Basic Russian Ill, HU h2; Mrs. Jemakoff .. Spanish 145; Modernista Movement, HlJ 1 1 0, Mrs. Astiz Sociology 10; Evolution of Human Society, SS 110, Prof. Gracey Sociology 160; Social Change, SS 112, Mr. Wernette Biology 51; Ecology, SS 016, Prof. George Physics U; Introduction to Physics I, BU 204, Prof. Jones Psycbolo-=y 10; A first Course in Psychology · Sec. 3, PY 1 13, Prof. Newman Psytbology 36; The Psychology of Man-Machine Systems, PY 102, Prof. Berthold E.S. 2:4; Electric Circuits Sec. I~ . BH 201, Prof. Ingvarsson Sec. 2, NW 116, Prof. Goodheart C.lass of '73 Memo·rial If you wish to donate to the fund, and .have not already, we urge you t0 fill out the proper lorm and return it to the Stude11t · Acthiities Office · as soon as ·possible. . ' . 1'------------------ I __________ ,;,.. _____ , I l ple~ge $ ...... to the Class of '73 memorial fund in honor of\Edward Corbett 1 I and K.elvm Cook. 1 · I Please print your name and address: I I , I I I I I I . I (signature) J I I 1 hereby donate $ ...... of my original $50.00 deposit to Union College to a class 1· I fund. earmarked to the building of a study lounge in the library and in memory of I I Kelv1~ Co<?k and Edward Corbett. l understand that unless I am notified, my I I donation wtll not be used for any other putpos:~. I I Please print your name and address: 1 I I I I I I I I I . I I (signatu,re) I '------------- .... ----~---- .... --------·--· -· . .I -·. -----

on I I I I CONCORDIENSJS, Wednesday, May 30, 1973 Page] dule Spring 19 7 3 . ' TUESDAY, JlJNE 12 · 9:00-U:OO A.M. Comp. Ed. 63; Introduction to Astronomy, BH 106, Prof. Titus English 122; The American Short Story, f!:U 1 J 5, Prof. Gado History 14l;Contemporary Europe, SS014, Prof. Hansen llistory 170;.CommunisminLatiil America, SS 112, Prof. Bristol Chinese 12; Basic Chine~ III, HU 112, Prof. Woo Chinese 132; Modern Chinese III, Hl! 11:2, Ptqf. Woo Chinese 142; Modern E:(C:pository Chinese III, HU 112, Prof. Woo F\reneh U; Bilsic French III, HU 116, Prof. Thomas GermQn 11; Basic German II, I{U 117, P·tof. Warde Span~sh 12; Basic Spanish III, HU OJ 6, Mrs. Vinick f.hilosophy 21; Symbolic 'Logic, HU 114, ~rof. Ludwig Pe»liticid Science U; .The Am'erican Political System, SS 010, Prof. Daniels S10ciology 35; Social Conflict. and Peace Re~earch, SS 113, Mr. Wernette . A.~counting 10; Princ~ples of Accounting, BH 312, Mt. Kauth .Biology 12; The Cell-Core II, S\S 016, Prof. Lambert . . 'JJiology 140; Biochemical and Molecular Genetics, BH 207, Prof. Butzel GcolQgy 11;. Historical Geology, BU 106, Prof. Zimmerman - Mathematics 30; Ordinary Differential EqUations Sec. 2, BH 201, Prof. Maddaus Mathematics 33; Abstract Alge~ra II, BH 104, Prof. Loaghlin Phys~cs 136; Classical Mechanics, SH 1 00, Pr~f._C. Swartz Psoychok.gy 10; A Fir&.t.Course in Psychology Sec. I, PY I 13, Prof. Girdner P5)'cbology 30; Theory of Personality, PY'102, Prof. Graves C.E. 41; Legal Aspects ofEngineeri!lg, BU 109, Prof. Harlow E.E.l48; Digital Circuits, SH 203, Prof. Hoffman TUESDAY, JUNE U 2:01);.4:00 P.M. Eeontmties l O; Elementary Economics, Part I Sec .. J, SS 115, Prof. Prosper Sec. 2~ SS 117; Mr. Phaup Economics 142; Macroeconomic Theory and Policy, SS I 12, Prof. Kershner Sociology SO; Bqreaucracy in Modern Society, SS 014, Prof. Gracey -' Mnh~Jilatfcs 127; Numeri~ Aqalysis~ Bfl .. l04, P,rof~_Rou!ier Physics U; Introduction to Physics I, for Biology, Science and Center I students, BU 204, Prof. Windsor Physics.l3; Introduction to-Physics II; BU 109; Prof. W. Schwarz E.S. 33; 'Fluid Systems Analysis, BH 201. Prof. Shanebrook C.S.12; FORTRAN Progr.amming, BH 207, M:r. McKeown C.S. 127; Numerical Me~hods in Differential Equations, BH 104, Prof. Roulier WEDNESDAY, JUNE 13 9:00-11:00 A.M. Comp. Ed. 47; Greek Art and Civilization, SS 016, Prof. Reece Classics 24; Greek Art and Civilization, SS OJ 6, Prof. Reece Economics 11; Elementary Economics, Part II Sec. l, SS H7, Prof, Kenney Economics 144; International Economics, SS J 13, Mr. Phaup French 130; Readings in Contemporary French Literature, HU 116, Prof. Roberts · Ge.-man 12; Basic German III, HU 119, Prof. Warde Sociology 62; Practicum in Social Research, SS ] 12, Mr. Kusterer Chemistry 12; Fundamental Chemistry II Sec. J, BU 204, Prof. Werner Sec. 2, BU 204, Prof. Hull Chemistry 150; Physical Chemistry I, BU 109, Prof. Frosch Mathematics 14; Calculus III Sec. l, BH 201, Prof. Stone Mathematics 18; Introduction to Logic and Set Theory Sec. 1, BH 102, Prof. Loughlin Mathematics 30; Ordinary Differential Equations Sec. 1, BH 106, Prof. Tornga Mathematics 134; Differential Equations, Bli 203, Prof. Maddaus Physics 13; Introduction to Physics II, for Biology, Science and Center I stqdents Sec. 1, SH 110, Prof. Wylen Psychology 24; Social Psychology, PY 102, Prof. Newman Psychology 49;Clinical Psychology II, PY 113, Prof. Dowling Psychology 99; Social Psychology Seminar, PY 102, Prof. Newman · E~S. 20; Mechanics, SH 101, Prof. Panlilio. C.E. 48; Structural Steel, BU 300; Mr. Pikul C.S. 14; Introduction to Cobal and Data Processing, BH 207. Prof. T. Schwarz WEDNE$DAY, JUNE 13 l:OD-4:00 P.M. Comp. Ed. 22; Sex Roles in American Society, SS 112, Prof. Nancy WaJbek ' ·. 1 .'\t : \ Comp. Ed. 34; Propaganda and Public Opinion, HU J 15, Mr. P. Johnson Comp. Ed. 37; Literature and Psychology, HU 117, Prof. Calabria Greek 12; Greek Reading, HU 213, Prof. Testroet Sociology 164; Contemporary Soci<?logical Theory, SS 113, Prof. Gracey Mathemities 10; Calculus I Sec. 1, BH 104, Prof. Li~g Sec. 2, BH I 06, Prof. Roulier Mathematics 12; Calculus II Sec. 1, BU 204, Prof. Bick Sec. 2, BU 204, Prof. Bick Sec. 3; BU 204, Prof. Leach Physics 2l; Electro~ic Circuits, S.H 1 00, Prof. Lewis CONCORDI~S founded at Union College in 1871 Editor-in-Chief.. .............................................. Al Reisch Managing Editors ..................................... Rita Morandi Dave Strom News Editors ................ , ....................... Phyllis Edelman Marty Sherman Features Editor ......................................... John Perlstein Investigations and Analysis .......................... Doq. Krone Associate Editor ........ : ......... ;; ................... Chuck Sabatt National Advertising .................................... Steve Kelly Sports Editor ....................... · . ·Bart Mercer St~b.scriptions ......................................... Mike Bernstein Business Manager ... : ....................... _. ...... Chris o:connor Photo Editors ....... : .................. Les Kernan OftleeStatr Phil Alcabt:s Doug Carpenter Gary Lovett lll.yria Puharich Dun Rothbtum Jeff Weilburg Bill Erichson Robin Waring Bill West Concordiensis is published every Tuesday and Friday during the school year except during examination and vacation periods by the student body of Union College, Schenectady, N.Y. National Advertising Representative: National Educational Advertising Service, Inc., NYC. Editorial office, Old Gym Hall, Union College. P\ublication office, The Jewish Wotld Publications, 771 State Street, Schenectady, New York, 12307 (346~2356). Entered in the Schenectady post office as Second Class Mail Matter. Subscription rate: 20 cents a copy, 8 dollars a year delivered anywhere in the United States. Deadline for all copy, which must be TYPED AND DOU8LE SPACED, is 7 p.m. on Monday and Thursday at the Concordiensis office, located in Stoller Hall above Old Chapel. The office phone number is 370-6155, but the office is in use only on Monday and Thursday nights. FOR ALL EDITORIAL MATTERS CALL tHE EbiTOR-IN-CHlEF AT 346-9396; FOR lNFORMA TION CALL MRS. MARRA IN THE' STUDENT ACTIVITIES OFFICE AT 370-6118.

I ·I ·,) i .l I ' . I • ·, ' ' Page4 CONCORDJENSIS, Wednesday, May 30, 1973 Concordy Interviews: T H . d \C. 1·· . I '' 'om · or ·. as . a ;1gu a by DAN VALENTI Concordy recently interviewed Tom Hord, a senior and veteran of many Mountebank productions. He will be appearing in his last role at Union College as \Caligula.\ Concordy: The first question I'd like to ask is how do you go about the task of preparing for a role'! What are the standards you • set for yourself in a given production? Hord: First, I start with the .reading of the script. and try to see the thing. try to visualize what I see in words -=- in terms of the character. in terms of the poetics. and the nature of the play. whether it is a fast or a slow piece. Most of it comes from spea'king. First ·i·t is a visual thing, then it is a play with the spoken word. Essentially, if l stay loose and open, I can get farther into it than if I listened to someone else. C: So usually, then. role preparation and interpretation is a thing that .evolves, rather than just happens. In other words, you pick up a script, and to really penetrate the nature of the character you're portraying, you work it out through the rehearsals, through relating with the other actors you're working with. H: Yes. I'd give it a more universal connotation, though. l try to apply whatever I find in the theater into my life, and- vice- versa. So I find that it is a matter of evolution. There's no real strategy to a role, nothing you can pattern or contain. For some things, it might be a simple matter of speaking, for something else, it might be a matter of listening. As in everything, there are a million thousand possibilities. 1f you're open, you can a:t:hieve, hopefully, enough of these possibilities to be satisfied. That's the best way. C: This anticipates my next question. For you, what is the ideal relationship between the director and the actor'? Or, put another way, how much decision making or freedom should the director give to his actor'? H: There should be a lot of interplay between the director and the actor. The director has so much r.esponsibility in choosing a play, in asking people to be a part of a play. Everything comes back to the director. That doesn't mean that everything must start with the director, but everything boils down to the director. It is a sad thing when a director tries to push some of the burden of being a director on his actors. A director does not sit and wait. He does not criticize. The actor must also understand the burden of the director. The director is essentially the creator of the whole P.iece. A director-actor relationship is not a cooperative thing. It is not something that comes out of teamwork. It's a matter of tears. and sympathy. and understanding ~ the kirid of things that play in drama. It has nothing to do with compromise. It's a matter of forthrightness and of deliberation. In so saying, the director gives every freedom to· the actor. The director gives all of himself everytime to everyone. That is the only way that he receives what he wants to I'eceive, i.e .• respect and satisfaction. That's wher.e t·he cooperation comes in. With that kind of attitude, you can't go wrong.· It's. a matter of sheer love. Out of love comes that kind of freedom. C: About your career at Union; you've been in a number of productions over the last seven years. What has been your favorite role? H: I don't know. l can't say. specifically. I would say that every one of the roles that I have played was a tremendous experience. So i.t's hard to say ••this one\ or \that one.\ I would have to weigh it in other ways, such as in terms of the box office. for instance. My biggest box office success was Drac\la; the highest achievement I . ever did was Virginia Wooif. I would say J.B. was a tremendous brutal and. loving thing. It was very coarse, and yet it took everything I had. So I could say every one, all of ·them, C: ,Do _you have any future pla.ns in.nthf,- theater? Do you hope ·to direct, do some work outside of Union or perhaps become professional'? H: I've already done work ~ outside of Union. You would have to say \para-professional.\ I don't get paid lor it, which is the criterion for being a professional. I have worked extensively with the Schenectacty Civic Theater. I have worked professionally with mime. I ran a hotel theater, one time when l was outside of Union. C: A hotel theater? Explain. H: l't's a very long story. It's a story· a-la Jack Kerouac, I suppose. It's a story of friends, and feelings, and being kicked in the ass. It was a sense of theater in the real meaning of the word theater.. , ;. .C: Soup·d~ more like Genet, than Kero'uac. H: Well, yeah. Like The Balcony. There were a lot of images going around. A lot ·of mirror work. But anyways, J have plans to live. ! have plans to get out of Union and see what it's like to be a real person again. l think my years at Union came to a typical despondent end: .. Oh Shit! I'm getting out of schooL I've got my B.A., now where the hell am I going to go?\ I want to forget that kind of thing. I understand that sense of bitterness of not really accomplishing all that 1 had intended to accomplish. And I think now that I am out of school, I can be all that I really want to be. I think this school was a great digression. It was a time of self-gathering. A sense of recollection. But those feelings were so stagnant. I want bigger PXperiences, in life, even if it's not LUIGI'S RESTAURANT SPECIALIZING IN Italian -American Food 1125 BARRETT ST. SCHENECTADY 016-9744 Enjoy Si==ling Steaks and C1wps Vi.\ it Our cock tail flat. in the theater. If I can ma;ke myself experience life bigger, broader. better, and· newer, lhen that's where I'll go. My hunch is that it. will be in the theater, though. C: Allow me to turn into Dick Cavett for a moment. and ·ask you what has been your most embarrassing moment on stage? H: I've had my share. C: The panic of a forgotten line. perhaps'! H: To tell you the truth, I've had only one \line panic.\ That was in J.B. It was opening night and things were very rushed and hurried. It was a big spectacle, and many people were working very hard. There was quite a lot of backstage tension and frustration. J.B. was already brilliant. but people including the director were not satisfied with that. They wanted it to be sterling. For that reason, there was so much tension. I plain blew a line. I just completely blanked out. A lot of things that shouldn't have been in my mind when I went _onstage, were. And it· wasn't until r dissipated them into myself that I was finally over the hump, but I did blow a line at the beginning. I guess one of the \fun\ spots was the time that one of the clowns in J.B. (and I won't embarrass anyone with names) fainted backstage. And this was just before he was to go on and start juggling. l remember scrambling frantically. In Virginia Woolf, Martha was supposed to come in on time - she never appeared. It was a walk-on, walk· off thing. I was having this long session with George. Martha was supposed to come in right at the heart of it, and twice in two nights she never came in, or rather, catne in late. So I had to dribble that ball for a while. We all have these moments. It's really the greatest thing that can happen to you. It's like going down the road and having a blowout. It keeps you awake. C: I'd like to thank you for the interview. I wish you every success in Odigula and hope things go well for you in the future. · H: All right. Thanks a lot for having me tonight, Mr. Cavett. I mean, Mr. Valenti. Carnival Continued from Page I the whole term. I can't believe thev use the same meat for the ha~burgers they have inside -· it really tastes different cooked outside.\ Sunday night saw students studying in the library once again. Fun and games were being exchanged for book and papers. and the thought of Finals looming not too far in the future. * * * * The spring issue of IDOL will emerge \'EXT WEEK. beginning. Monday. June 4th. * * * * The last PY E meeting will be held in Silliman basement at 7:00 Wednesday. The last recycling pickup of the year will be this Friday. * * * * There will be a meeting for all people interested in playing chl!ltnher music at 7:00 P.M .. Tuesday. June 5th. in Arts 202. * * * * Levrs \LITTLE VINNIE$\ PIZZERIA ~~· Dave's. Mens Shop 453 State St. (,dttwntowtl Schene~'a.(ly) ... , l 783 ALBANY ST., SCH'DY. Mon.~ Tues. all you can eat $1.00 LASAGNA HOME MADE CALL __ ,~G'~J:'LitN:t~.JJ,l~Q-'7\' .. \' .,_. 374:-.~600 We,\\('- _,.,.y Deliver , ... --- Chet Arthur and his Flaming Aces will perform Friday at the Finals Freebie Coffeehouse. photo by Bill Erichson BLITHER All ~\e :King's Men wi,ll be shown FREE at 8 P.M. and 10 P.M. on Friday, June I, 1973 in SS 016 by Film Series. * * * * Political Science Juniors: Professor Sharlet announces an ifl1p~rtant meeting on Thursday evening, May 31, at 7:30 p.m. in SS 115 to arrange senior project assignmepts and other matters. Free beer. * * * * folitical Science Seniors: The Political Science Department cordially invites all Political Science senior majors to the Annual Political Science Senior Picnic on Saturday. June 2, at Girling Center. beginning at 12:00 noon. * * * * The Black Student Alliance presents: . A non-profit benefit.. AU proceeds will go towards a muc~ needed educational facility for the Hamilton Hill Community. The Akbar School presenting: \The Bloody Claw\ featuring: Demonstl\ations of Kung-fu and the devastating iron palm. Also live music by '\Aif:( and Omega\ Dragon vs. Tiger. Donation at the door $3.oo: * * * * Help Wanted. Two people to work on IDs at registration in the fall. See Mrs. Snowden in Dean of Students Office. ·· PROCTOR'S Wi-lli: STATJ ST., SCHENECTADY CLINT EASTWOOD I tn \HIG.H PlAlN·s D-RIFTER\ To AIJ Clu.b Sports Members, re: Insurance plah. A physical examination is required before you participate in any Club Sport. Make an appointment at the Infirmary. If you are ever injured while participatiQg ih a club sport. you rriust report it immediately to the Infirmary. Be sure to mention that you are a Club Sport member. Practice and traveling is also covered under this plan. but a form will have to be made out with all the detalis. Thank· you for your cooperation. * * * * A Hillel officer must be elected. All those interested in running and' or voting please come to Hale House Lounge at 9:30 on Monday Night. After the. election we will call a Jew in ~ussia. The last phone call we made\to Russia was a truly satisfying experience. This one should be no different. People are needed to make both events successful. * * * * Over $1,000 has been donated or pledged to .the senior dass gift to the College, but .more Is needed to adequaiely iinance a lounge in the addition to Schaffer Library in memory of· Kelvin Cook and Edward Corbett. Please 'bring vour forms to Mrs, Marra in the Student Activities Office. Old Gym Hall. Levrs Dave's' Mens Shop 453 State St. . (downtown Schenectady) j • ... - -~~<Q>'-0'>~ FOR LIQUOR AND WINE Try Jake Lipstein's

I I Page4 .,·-· Concordy Interviews:~ Tom Hord as \Caligula\ by DAN VALENTI Com:ordy recently intetview~d Tom Hord, a senior and veteran of many Mountebank productions. He will be appearing in his last role at Union College as \Caligula.\ Concordy: The first question I'd like to ask is how do you go about the task of preparing for a role'? What are the standards you • set for yourself in a given production'? Hord: First, I start with the reading of the script, and try to see the thing, try to visualize what I see in words .::.._ in terms of the character, in terms of the poetics, and the nature of the play, whether it is a fast or a slow piece. Most of it comes from speaking. First it is a visual thing, then it is a play with the spoken word. Essentially, if I stay loose and open, I can get fanher into -it than if I listened to someone else. C: So usually, then, role preparation and interpretation is a thing tha,t evolves, rather than just happens. In other words, you pick up a script, and to really penetrate the nature of the character you're portraying, you work it ou.t through th'e rehearsals, through relating with the other actors you're working with. H: Yes. I'd give it a more universal connotation, though. I try to apply whatever I find in the theater into my life, and- vice- versa. So I find that it is a matter of evolution. There's no real strategy to a role, nothing you can pattern or contain. For some things, it might be a simple matter of speaking, for something else, it might be a matter of listening. As in everything, there are a million thousand possibilities. If you're open, you can a-c:hieve, hopefully, enough of these possibilities to be satisfied. That's the best way. C: This anticipa,tes my next question. For you, what is the ideal relationship between· fhe director and the actor? Or, put another way, how much decision making or freedom should the director give to his actor'? · H: There should be a lot of interplay between the director and the actor. The director has so much responsibility in choosing a play, in asking people to be a part of a play. Everything comes back to the director. That doesn't mean that everything must start with . the director, but everything boils down to the director. It is a sad thing when a director tries to pUsh some o(the burden of being a director on his acton;, A director does not sit and wait. He does not ·criticize. The actor must also understand the burden of the director. The director is es~-entially the creator of the whole pjece. A director~actor relationship is not a cooperative thing. It is not something that comes out of teamwork. It's a matter of tears, and sympathy. and understanding - the kirid of things that play in drama. It has nothing to ,do with compromise. It's' a maHer of fmthrightness and of deliberation. In so saying, the director gives every freedom to·the actor. The director gives all of himself everytime to everyone. That is the only way thaf he receives what he want~ to receive, i.e., res.pect and satisfaction. That's where the cooperation comes in. With that kind of attitude. you can't go wrong. 'It's a matter of sheer loVe, Out of love comes that kind of freedom. C: About your career at Union; you've been in a number of productions over the last seven years. What has been yollr favorite role? H: I don't know. l can't say. specifically. l would say that every one of the roles that 1 have played was a tremendous experience. So it's hard to say \this one\ or \that one.\ I would have to weigh it in other ways, such as in terms of the bex office, for instance. My biggest box office success was Prac~d;~;_ the highest achit1v.ement I .ever !lie! was Virginia, Woolf. I wo.uld say· J.B. was a tremendous brutal and loving thing. It was very coarse, and yet it took everything I had. So I could say every one, all of them~ C: Po ,y~u have any future plaps in,ntftp, theater'! Do you. hope, ·to direct, do some work outsi~e of Union or perhaps become professional'? H: I've iili·eady done work _ outside of (I nloh. You would have to say \para-professionaL\ l don't get paj(J tt>r it, which is the critedon for being a professional. I have worke9 extensively with the SchenectadY' Civic Theater. l have worked professionally with mime. I ran a hotel theater, one time when I was outside of Union. C: A hotel theater'? Explain. H: It's a very long story. It's a story · a-la Jack Kerouac, I suppose. It's a story of friends, and feelings, and being kicked in the ass. It was a ~>ense of theater in the real meaning of the word theater. . , i' ,, ,C: Soup~,s more like Genet, than Kerouac. H: Well, yeah. Like The Balcony. There were a lot of images going around. A lot 'of mirror work. But anyways, I have plans to live. ! hav.e plans to .get out of Unio,n and see what it's like to be a real person' again. I think my years at Union came to a typical despondent end: \Oh Shit! I'm getting out of school. I've got my B.A. now where the hell am I going to go'!\ I want to forget that kind of thing. I understand that sense of bitterness of not really- accomplishing all that J had intended to acc.omplish. And I think now that I am out ef school, I can be all that I really want to be. I think this school, Was a great digression. It was a time of self-gathering. A sense of recollection. But those feelings were so stagnant. I want bigger &xpt>riences, in life, even if it's not LUIGI'S RESTAURANT SPECIALIZING IN Italian -A-merican Food 1125 BARRETT ST. SCHENECTADY 016-9744 EY?ioy Si==fing Steaks and Chops Vi.vir Our (ocktail Bar · in the theater. If I can ma,ke myself experience life bigger, broader, better, and· newer, lhen that's where I'll go. My hunch is that it. will be , in the theater, though. C: ·Allow me t0 turn into Dick Cavett for a moment, and ·ask you what ·has beer! your most embarrassing moment on stage? . H: I've had my share. . C: The panic of a forgotten line, perhaps'! · H: To tell you the tn.tth, I've had only one \line panic.\ That was in J.B. It was opening night and things were very rushed and hurried. It was a big spectacle. and many people were working very hard. There was quite a' lot of backstage tension am;! fwstration. J.B. was already brilliant. bllt people including the dh:ector were not satisfied with that. They wanted it to be sterling. For that reason, there was so much tension. I plain blew a line~ I just completely blanked out. A lot of things that shouldn't have been in my mifl:d wh~n I we.nt .onstage, were. And it wasn't until r dissipated the·m into myself that I was finally over the hump, but I did blow a line at the beginning. .I guess one of the ••fun\ spots was the time that one of the clowns in J.B. (and I won 1 t embarrass anyone with names) fainted backstage. And this was just befere he Was to go on and start juggling. I remember scrambling. frantically. ln Virginia Woolf, Martha was supposed to come in on time - she never appe\ired. It was a walk-on, walk- off th'ing. I was having this long session with George. Martha was supp0sed to come in right at the heart of it, and twice in two nights she never came in, or rather, came in late. So 1 had to dribble that hall for a while. We all have these moments. It's really the greatest thing that can happen to you. It's like going down the road and having a blowou't. It keeps you awake. C: I'd like to thank you for the interview. I wish you every ·success in Caligula and hope things go well for ypu in the future. H: All right. Thanks a lot for having me tonight, Mr. Cavett. I mean. Mr. Valenti. Carnival Ct>ntinued from Page I the whole term. I can't believe thev use the same meat for the ha~burgers they have inside - it really tastes different cooked outside.\ Sunday night saw students studying in the library once again. Fun and games were being exchanged for book and papers, and the thought of Finals looming not too far in the future. * * * * The spring issue of I DOL will emerge NEXT WEEK, beginning. Monday, June 4th. * * * * The last PYE meeting will be held in Silliman basement at 7:00 Wednesday. The las.t recycling pickup of the year will be this Friday. * * * * There will be a meeting for all reople interested in playing chamber music at 7:00 P.M .. Tuesday. June 5th. in Arts 202. * .. .. * tevrs • ''LITTLE VI,N,NIES\ PIZZ-ERIA r.:::? We~~ Dave's' Mens Shop 453 State St .• tdt\tw:t(tt;~ 'S:drene'-fta~;Y:) 1 ,.,; ,1 783 ALBANY ST., SCH'DY. Mon.-tues. all you c~m eat $1.00 LASAGNA HOME MADE CALL _ :tGGM\Dl:t~~MJl-~.\' ,..,~ 374-5600 . Deltver . .--- · .... ~ ~ Chet Arthur and his Flami11g Aces will perform Friday at the Finals Freebie Coffeehouse. photo by Bill Erichson BLITHER AIJ Tl!,e, ~K~ng's ~en wi!l. be shown 'Fft\EE at ·g P.M. and 1'0 P.M. on Friday, June l, 1973 in SS 01'6 by Film Series. * * * * Political Science Juniors: Professor Sharlet announces an iJl!PC!rtant me~ting ~n T~ursday evening, May 31, at 7:30p.m. in ss 1.15 to arrange senior project assignmepts' and other matters. Free beer. * * * *, folitical Science .Seniors: The Political Science Department cordially invites all Political Science senior majors to the Annual Political Science Senior Picnic on Saturday, June 2, at Girling Center, beginning· at 12:00 noon. * * * * The Black Student Alliance presents: . , · A non-profit · benefit., All proceeds will go toward~ a' muc~ needed educational facility for the Hamilton Hill Community. The Akbar School presenting: \The Bloody Claw\ featuring: Demonstrations of Kung-fu and the devastating irpn palm: Also live ,music by ''A;Ifl{ and Omega\ Dragonvs. \Tiger Donation at the <;loor $3.oo: * * * * Help Wanted. Two people to work on IDs at registration in the fall. See Mrs. Snowden in Dean of Students Office. / PROCTOR'S W:.~ STATl ST .• SCHENECTADY CLINT EASTWOOO • tn \HIGH PlAI.NS DR:IflER\ , To· 1\,IJ Clu.b Sports Members, re: 'Insurance pia h. A physical examination is required before you participate in any Club Sport. Make an appointment at the Infirmary; If you are ever jnjured while participatil}g in a club sport. you must report it immediately to toe Infirmary. Be sure to mention that you are a Club Sport member. · Practice and traveling is also covered under this plan, but a form will have to be made 011t with all the detalis. Thank~ you for your cooperation. * * * * A Hillel offi.cer must be elected. All those interested in running and.1 or voting please come to Hale House Lounge at 9:30 on Monday Night. After•the election . we will call a Jew in ~ussia. The last phone call We made'to Russia was a truly satiSfying .experience. This one should b:e. no d'ifferent. People .are needed to make· both events successful. * * * * Over $1,000 h&s been dqnated or pledged to .the senior 'c1a~s gift to the College •. but .m9i~ k n¢eded to adequafe·ly finance a Taunge in' the addition to Schaffer -Library in memory of- Kelvin Cook and Edward Corbett. Please 'bring your forms to Mrs, Marrfl in the Student Activities Office. Old Gym Hall. tevrs Dave;sMens 'Shop I 453 State St. l (downtown Schenectady) VJ'><.G'~~~~~~ . FOR LIQUOR . AND WINE .Try § ,Jake- ~ . Lipsfein 's § · : , '464 State Street · § f!owntown Scllene.ct~4r ~ .s. . ' .,\\f!(t~~~8:;;_/ ,,.,~;.,, ~: ~~ ....... ~rq.~ . I

