I ,. CONCORDIENSIS, Thursday, February 28, 1974 Page6 Track Bows Swimmers Gear For Stat·e :Meet by ALISON SLOAT Edinboro State, former outdoor NAJA champs from Pennsylvania, was never really considered one of \THE\ teams with which to contend on the indoor schedule. Not like Rochester. Or Cortland. Yet, at the lJ of Rochester Invitational this past Saturday, the Edinboro thinclads combined for 6812 team points, including a sweep in the two mile run, to clinch the title for '74. The Y ellowjackets of Rochester rested in second place with 43 points, Cortland had 301,6 for third. and it was a disappointed and disappointing Union team, defending champions of '73, who sat m fourth place with 29 Y2 points. ll nlike the last time the U of Rochester hosted the .Garnet spikers. there was no outright attempt to nail the Union crew to the wall, like the repeated outside lane assignments at the Rochester Relays. Instead, all competitors may have suffered equally at the eyes and watches of a green group of judges and timers chosen from the U of R student body, and at the hands of a trigger happy starter. The only aces in the Union hand were defending champs Tim McCabe in the 600, and Mark Mh1del in the 880. Both Garnet thinclads bettered U of R All- American. Sonberg, an expected threat and home crowd favorite. McCabe's win in 1:15.7 topped Son berg's I: 16.0, while a 2:01.2 lor Minner in the 880 left Sonberg second again, with 2:03.4. .I unior co-captain Dave Ricks' ~eason best at 13'6\ was a fourth place finish behind senior citizen Dave Lander ·of Cortland. Despite his green super pole, Lander 111issed at 14' to settle Cor the win <it I J'6\ on fewer misses. Big disappointments came in the shot put and the 50 yd. dash for the Garnet thinclads. In the .. hot. · Mar~hi of Cortland heaved the l6lb. ball 47'81;2\ for the win over Bill Mowrey's 46'9X.\ In the ~print out of the tunnel and into the wall. the first four finishes \ere clocked in 5.6 seconds. Frosh B·BaU by ANN TAUB In theirfinal home game of the season last Wednesday ni_ght, the !Inion Frosh massacred the lltica J ayvee.s, 90-38. Clete McLaughlin. starting for the laid up Rich Gorman. , paced lJ ( iarnet scorers with 16 points. 1om Cook and Joe Santamaria lollowed the lead with 12 apiece. Union subs expanded on a 32 point halftime lead to give Utica its twelfth loss of the season. lhursday night. Albany State's .layvee!'i rallied from a 3 point halftime deficit to beat Coach Mike Doyle's Yearlings 68-59, Albany's second victory over !Inion this season. Peter Meola led all scorers with ·13, while Gary Borgese and Steve Hahn each added 12. lhc 9-5 Frosh Dutchmen face the RPI Jayvees tonight in Troy and conclude their season next \\cek playing two games post-- poned because of the extellded \\inter vacation. Sophomore Milt Herring was picked fourth over the line in 5.6. The Dutchman track squad is like the glowing embers of a fire. The potential is there. The coals are at their hottest point. Every once in a while a flame or two sparks up. It's just that a small jolt is needed to set all the flames crackling. fire up 1trackmen, it's about time! * * * * Following Saturday's meet at Rochester, juniors Dave Ricks and John DeStefano traveled to Syracuse to compete in a US Track and Field Federation pentathelon. After the five events, 200 meters, long jump, shot put, high jump, and 1500 meters, Ricks was in seventh place and John De was tenth in a field of 17 from throughout the east. Rick's 4:27.3 1500m established a new meet record on the .Manley field- bouse track. • by FLASH The Union Swim Team swam their best · meet of the season yesterday against Albany State, hut lost 62·49. The team finished tfue season with a disappointing 2- 6 record, yet they showed yester- day better things to come at the State Meet this weekend. The opening relay lost to Albany, but super-frosh Jeff Marston demonstrated superior technique and conditioning, turning in a l: 11.9 breaststroke split. Albany swept the 1000 free style, but Toin Terrific Burbank swam a personal best 12: 15.0.Not far behind was Chris Ketcham who has found a niche in long distance events. We Willy West placed second in the 200 free, promising to do better in the States. Number one Union sprinter Rich Norman brought home the honors as he and Dave \Burned Out\ Bernet swept an exciting 50-yard freestyle event. The 200 I. M. saw Union take 2nd and 3rd as co~aptain Tom Eva Schmeckenbecker, the onlv individual winner versus Rochester last week, takes a dive. UNION SPORTS NOTES: 2/25/74 Wrestling: (6-6 Final) Union finished eighth in the 22 team New York State championships with senior captain Mark · Zullo fM~s~apequa N.Y.) the top mdlVIdual with a fourth place finish. The 126 pounder ended his four year Union mat career with a 58-12 record. Freshman Mike Paquette (Colonie N.Y.) finished fifth at 167 and sophomore Scott Media (Poughkeepsie N.Y.) sixth at 150. Sophomore Tom Everett (Peru N.Y.) who figured as a contender in ·the 158 class was forced out of the tourney in the second round with a broken finger. Swimming: (2-5) Co-captains Tom Richardson (Norwalk Conn.) and Tom Burbimk (S. Portland Me.) were the only individual winners as Union lost to Hamilton 76-37. Richardson, a sophomore, took the 200 backstroke m 2:17.3. while Burbank, a photo credit Dave Hardman senior, won the 200 breaststroke in 2:38.9. Track: This week: Sat.-Cortland Invitational. Defending champion Union finished a disappointing fourth in the 14 team Rochester Invitational last week despite strong individual performances from seniors Tim McCabe (Corinth Vt.~ and Mark ' Mindell (Niskayuna N.Y.). McCabe took the 600 in I: I 5. 7 while Mindell won the 880 in 2:01.2. Union was without distance runner and relay team member Crawford Cutts (Litchfield Conn.) both of whom were injured. Juniors Dave Ricks (Pt. Pleasant N.J.) and John DeStefano (New Hartford N.Y.) finished seventh and lOth respectively in the New York State Pentathalon Championships at Syracuse Sunday. The pair competed in the shot put, high jump. long jump. 200 and , 1500 meters, the latter event won by Ricks. Richardson once again showed why he is one of Union's top contenders for Sta·te honors. lorn swam the e¥ent in 2: 15.7, his best for the year. Union pulled out aU the stops in the required diving. Mark Foster came in secand, but the amazing Marston, posing as Eva Schmeckenbecker, pulled out a third. \Iron- Man\ lrv Kaufman overwhelmed Albany spectators with his dazzling 200 yard butterfly. coming in second With a personal best 2:44.3. \Quick Dick\ Vorman missed his tu:rn in the IOOya td free style event, but ex-butterflyer Mitch \Shithead\ Weisburgh carrie from behind to take second with an impressive 53. 9. Union took first and third in the 200 bac·kstroke. Tom · Richardson, who took first, is teroing in on the Union Record, while Rob Magaziner showed 'how happy he was to finish the season as he swam a very strong and quick 2:26.7. Gutsy lrv Kaufman finished his dual meet season by taking a third in -the 500 ·freestyle. Keith .la.co.bsan, wha has - been ·converted to a threatening 500 man (he was a short distance freestyler last year) v.owed to sprint Up to Skidmore after ripping through the event. Marston and Burbank .looked like swimming satellites as• they. swe.pt the 200 breast stroke. Mars(on swam a lightning fast 2:.37.2, but Burbank is still number one as he broke 2:36. Ma.rk Foster threatened not to dive if Marston beat him, but Mark. outdid the competition, minus Jeff, winning the optional diving. Finally, Union's finest lost a Close 400 free relay. The relay l.9.oked strong, though, as Weisburgh swam as anchor 52.0, hut got edged out by the Albany team. Union's time was a four year best of 3:37.8. The Swim Team heads for the States this weekend at IUT, and promises to be in fine shape after the finals Saturday night. NO N.C.A.i\. PRESIDENT OF THE STUDENT BODY Student Activities Office Union College Schenectady, New York 12308 To: Senators on the All-College Senate From: Steering Committee President Re: Athletics at Union College a) Knowing thp.t, in the past few years, the Union College hasketball teams have been asked to participate in national post- season tournaments, and further, have been forbidden to participate because of its membership in the New England Small College Athletic Conference; h) Realizing that the members of the basketball teams are firmly convinced that the competitive- ness with which they face their hasketball games would not at all he increased simply by the pcrmisston to participate in national post-season play, and· hence, their academic work would not at all suffer; c) Recognizing that the college's ad·mini-stration is certainly capable of assuring that no corrupt practices enter the rec-ruit- ment and admissions policies of this school; d) Understanding that participation in national post- season competition is supported hy an overwhelming majority of students, and further, evokes a highly positive response from faculty and administrators; e) Speculating that such participation can only · help to huild a sense of identity on this campus and assist in anyattempt to foster a feeling of community at Union, LET IT BE RESOLVED that this All-College Senate implores the President of this College to take whatever steps that are necessary, · including withdrawal from the New. Englanq Small College Athletic Conference, to assure the participation of Union College, if asked, into any national post-season sport competition. WHO LIKES SCHOOL We're a newly formed\publ ic interest foundation, dedicated to fundamental social change especially through public school education. We hope to contribute toward a· less materialistic, competitive, and sterile world, and to the development of more interpersonal and humanistic values. Our independent long term funding enables us to develop pilof projects in non traditional human development areas, and to deal with v.alues and a significant social reorientat·ion. WE NEED studertts, faculty, concerned individuals who are very intelligent, sensitive, alert, articulate, aware, ~esourcetul, ·energetic, imaginative and committed. Let us know y(llfr thoughts. We hope to fill an idealisi·ic void. IF YOU IDENTIFY WITH OUR OBJECTI\TES CONTACT US.AT: ~~~~~SZ. IN SOC. CHANG~ PROJ. S.E.R. F~undation JOBS OR ACADEMIC CREDIT 1711 19 th St. NW rm. 1 . Wash. D.C. 20009 . Please include phone number in reply. 202-797·8829 Maurice Graubarl'·&· Sons THIS IS HERSHEL. MAURICE, AND WALTER GRAUBART AT GRAUQART . & SONS, SCHENECTADYS OlDEST FAMILY JEWELERS. WE VERY SELDOM ADVERTISE OUR REPAIR. DEfARTMENT BECAUSE WE ARE KEPT BU~Y MOST OF THE T-JME .. WED LIKE-TO MENTION THAT WE OFFER A COMPLETE REPAIR SERVICE ON WATCHES AND JEWELR'Y ITEMS. OUR WATCH REPAIRS ARE DONE BY. EFFICIENT. ·HIGHLY SKILLED .. WATCHMAKERS. AND OUR WORK IS GUARANTEED TO BE SATI·S.FACTORY. OUR RE~AIR SHOP WITHOU.·R OWN J~· WELERS AND DIAMOND SETIERS CAN PERFORM MOSt • ~WEl,.RV ~i&¢l~f.' REMEMBER GRAUBART &: SONS FOR f ~liABLE l66.JAY ST. SCHENECTADY ,. ; i J· ·, ' i~{ if • I , . C \?'a· t . ' [';; • .. r ~. l' I .. I ' '~ .. . I :· :; . ' .... ,, -· • •• 't' . /li I.

.J -, _I ~ I . I~ ;J '! • ·• • ,, (':: I ~. l' . i . 1 u. ). ,,, . . \' CO!VCORDIENS!S, Thursday, February 28, /974 Page 7 You Sa.id It! . Continu~d· •f.rom Page- 2 opposition\. from the fellows-hip. Exactly whitt is meant by the phrase \strong opposition'' we do not know, but apparently it involves some for.m of harrass- ment. lt se_en:rs tl)at .someone in the Fel'lowship read Mr. Valenti's script, and decided that it was not fit for anyone else to see. The reasons for the Fdlowship~s fanaticism. according-to what Mr. Valenti relayed to Us, ate that the play is blasphemous' because- it presents un\Christian themes, and that it was an .. abomination\ becau~e it -borrowed from Christian Mythology in an allegorical way. To imply that the play was written under Satanic i-nfluence is so Da-rk Ages, so archaic, as not to be believable. T0 offe-F an out-side reaction to, the play, Dr. Elizabeth Mansfield of the English Department has given Mr. Valenti her support as to the play's merits. But t•he real iss1:1e, of course, is not the play itself. The pia¥ is symptomatic of an· underlying cause, name'ly the perversion of \truth\ by the .Fellowship in the name of God. We feel that a·ny creative work, regardless of how controversial ·it might be, deserves an unhindered chance for presen- ta,tion; that people have the right to decide for themselves what is redeeming in the realm of artistic endeavor; and· that, when a self- appointed group of moralists tty to become censors for the Campus and start deciding what others should or should not see. it must be held up as the affront that it- is. The idea of a liberal education, which Union stands for, and the very right of freedom upon which our country Was founded has been -threatened by the incident here discussed. For this kind of attempted intimi- dation to exist. especially when it is \holier-than-thou\ justified by quoting scripture, is the real_ abomination. The Christian Fellowship has used the perceptive teachings of the Bible. and the pure, simple and poignantly human doctrine of Christ, to reinforce and support a point of view that is demeaning, sick, dangerous. and a blow in the face of freedom of expression. Christ saved his moments of greatest anger for hypocrites. So do we here follow this example. and denounce the Fellowship for their attempt to smother and hinder a man's right to expression. It is in this spirit that We offer our support to Mr. Valenti, and urge Mountebanks to give the play a forum. We also ask the Union College Community to be ever watchful of the wolves in sheep's clothing, who cover up bias and intoleranc.e with the sack-cloth of Scripture. We understand so Well what Mark Twain meant when he said: \If Christ were here now, there . is one thing he would not be -- a Christian.\ * Chip Cohen Bob Morrison tom Hood fan J. Gluck Paul Magaril Jerry Udelsman Gary L. Robison Mark A. Massey Eddie Meyer Woody Lauer Andrew Pearce Bruce Weber . . ' Drama's .Oefe~nse Editors Concordiensis: The incident involving Mr. Bullock and Ms. Crooks is ac~urate. · If ~mything; it is u.nderstated, and properly so. I d(J not .wish this incident to degenerate into a battle of personalities. Rather it should be a confronfrontation of the pdnciples involved. The visit by the Fellowship to my room Sunday night is not the \first encounter ,J have had with them. Last year, writing for Concordy, I had a series entitled \Wa.r with God,\ where the main intent was satiric but not ·disre- spectful.,The response .of most of the people who read my ar.ticles was favorable, but the fellowship protested_, which I readily under- stand. But their protestations were not limited to a dialogue; they conducted a campaign of harrassment that included bother- some phone calls and .fire and hrirnstone ·letters; most of which ·were unsigned. Concerning the play itself, I reject the fellowship's threat that I renounce it. I will do everything I can to see that \Andiamo\ gets a :proper hearing. A criticism I can accept. and heartily embrace, but an opinion that is forced on me as l)ivine Truth. which Mr. Bullock claimed his judgement was based o(i, I rebuke. The restrictive, almost Calv.inist view of the meaning of the carpenter's life that the Fellow- ship tries to sel:l denies 99% of the human experience. It denies people the right to confront experience in their chosen way. It excludes all opposing viewpoint~ belief cannot sink any lower than when this occurs. The Fellowship could have been· a teacher to Hitler. and it will die from being l'ound out. Finally, I wish to thank the signers of the letter for their vote of confidence. It IS an encouraging sign, a pos1t1ve omen. perhaps,. or things to come. and a counter-argument to the hackneyed myth of Union's apathy. Daniel J. Valenti -* * * * Senior View Editors: Concordiensis, . 1 am an old senior here. entered .this vale of tea-rs and stale beer in September 1969, a freshman with an unclipped high school ego. Union College seems to have been ~ better place then than· now, somehow more idealistic, lively, and on-edge. There was widespread dialogue then: now people are ITolding back, privately. or talking about different sorts of things. \ls it relevant?\ has yielded to \Does it help me meet my major and comp-ed requirements?\ Now 1 see a lot of people about who could very well be future. if not present. Republicans. It is a sad change to witness. Last week I happened upon a Concordiensis from JTIY freshman vear. and 1 took the truth of the ~11-d paper as condemning testi- mony against this change. Concordy bas changed with the campus scene,. reflecting its change. It is now a cynical, self- conscious product of the people who make it. It has been \Eyewitness-Newsed. •• to its 147 JAY ST. YOU detriment. - l read Heidi Steger's exceHerit letter in last week's issue. The college community must be viewed as being of individuals woliking problems out for them- , selves, with a lot of pressure going against them. The nature of the academic system in America bei.ng that of a rat race - essentially little-different from the life insurance business, essay-pro- duct substituted for policy-pro- duct, idea salesmanship for secur- i·ty salesmanship it is remarkable when instances of humane behavior surface amid the wallow of competit-iveness. This should not be. Things somehow got fouled-up :between then and now. \T\hroating,\ · in short, is not neccessary. lt .is l>ad and ugly, and is taking oveu this here place with its. companion, self-satire, which is. sick. The generalizations I make are about a fe.Jt cornmuna 1 1 mood, and · are not intended as a criticism of any certain individuals.- To the extent that l have been part of what I criticize, I regret. James Meyer Correction Editors, Concordiensis: lri the last issue of Concordiensis, I was quoted as saying that Social Committee business has been conducted illegally. I was guilty of ever- state.ltlent. There have been comm unica t:ions difficulties within the committee, and this has caused problems. The chair- man's role has · been further complicated by the fact that some members are totally or partly inactive, and this naturally increases the. work load on the chairman. The members of the committee welcome your sugges- tions, and We hope that interested students wiH apply for committee positions when new members are appointed in the spring. Dan Miley, member Social Committee G.r!l~~t~g belief that a change to the 12- point system would preclude professors giving pre-meds the \breaks\ they need and now get under the 5-point system. Professor Wells responded that, \there is no reason why the same breaks won't be given in a 12- point system as well,\ although he added, \I'm appalled to think of when I'm 60 years old and the kind of doctors examining me.\ • Some students voiced their fear that . the increased number of graduations in the. 12-po int system would increase the number of hassles over grades as well. It was brought out that the average cume at this school is already at an abnormally high :fevel (a.pproximately 2.9) so competition is already great. Professor Ludwig felt that there would . be fewer hassles over grades under the 12-point system since \there is mor.e trauma when the student gets a B instead of an A\ as opposed to a B+ instead of an A-. At the close of the meeting, Paul Corwin indicated that more efforts would be made in the near future to answer questions students have about the 12-point system. TARTUFFE 'd. come .. I·e p·ar J.B.P. de Moliere by CINDY YOUNG animated as the maid to Mountebank·s production of Marianne, Orgon's daughter Moliere's classic \Tartuffe\ (Cathy lanelli). Marianne and her opened last Friday and will run love.r Valere (Gary Levy). through Sunday night. It is well 11irtaciously funny m their worth seeing for Moliere's talents performance, never carry the and for the cast's apt affectations of their syrupy love interpretation of this great to uncalled for extremes. Cleante comedy. - (BiH Valee) the insightful brother- Laboringundertheburdenofa in-law and Damis (Lee poor translation, director Barry Bloomrosen) the hot-headed son Smith manages to capture a total of Organ are fully developed atmosphere of the Baroque period characters well handled by their almost in spite of the free prose. players. Special mention must go Moliere had intended the play to to Michael Sherer who, despite be performed m contmlled the fact that he has no lines, couplets, a form which creates a very funny character accentuates the very proper and with a stage presence impossible mannerly characteristics of the to ignore. Jody Stollmack should Age as well as its hypocrisy and he especially commended for very narrow attitudes. To incorporating her broken foot so compensate for the form which is well into the character of lacking from the translation, Madame Pernelle, Orgon's Mark Slawson, at the mother. harpsichord, contributes the real The extravagant costumes and Baroque theme and background beautiful wigs accentuate the well to the play. His music more than designed set for the first period any other factor lends strength, play that Mountebanks has polish, and structure to the produced in several years. The overall performance. overall performance is successful Tartuffe is a hypocrite, a in involving the audience in wit, character who through his humor and intrigue right down to pretende.d piety, VICtimizes the final curtain call. The guillible people who are searching audience is left with the plaguing for goodness in a corrupt society. mystery of \the Box\ and a One of these people is Orgon who satisfaction of an e.vening well wanis so badly to believe that he spent in 17th century has found a real man of 0-d. entertainment. Organ wiH not be convinced ll>++ .. ••••••••- otherwise, even by his family who ,. have the insight (and it takes very + MARTIN ON t little) to see through this spiteful t FAREWELL TOUR opportunist. Jeff A vrin as Organ t President Harold Martin does not create in his character t will be making farewell tours the intense struggle that Organ t of alumni clubs throughout must face with Truth. He is the country iri the coming affected beyond what a portrayal weeks. Starting with of Orgon deserves, but he is Philadelphia (March 6), he amusing nonetheless, especially in will travel to Pittsburg the scene where he_ discovers (March 7,) Phoenix, (March Tartuffe's real character: 8), Los Angeles (March 10), .Jerry Coleman's interpretation San Francisco (March 12), uf Tartuffe must be highly and return home via Denver ~:om mended. In him hypocrisy (March 13) and Chicago ~:omes to life as a witty and useful t (March 14). _ sin. He personifies in both action t Th b' 1 · 1 b · t and voice the qualities of a great t e ttharty a 0 t!l' 01 c u stt . . · t across e na 100 mee + opportumst, by assummg m some 1 1 t k b t 'th see nes the manner of a t rehgu ar y ot Ueep na rseatusdew•ts t - l:(~ntemporary po ltlca ypo~- :lte . parents, and friends are l. . 1 h . + c anges a mo . n 'i V.lth_ whom we are _al~ fami~mr. t always welcomed at alumni \Ylule ,Tartuffe IS ~ har, t club meetings. For (olema~ s performance IS mo~e t information about clubs in t than ?ehevable, as mu~h when_ hts t your area, simply contact the·· role 1s humorous _as m the ftn~l t Alumni Office. t scenes when h1s power IS ~·•••••• .... •t destroyed. Other performances are also notewor,thy. Karen Bernhard as 4 Orgon's strikingly beautiful wife adds as much to the Baroque scenery of the play as to the plot. Dorine, played by Helena Binder 1s vivacious and wonderfully - Levrs · Da~e's Mens Shop 453 State St. '(ctcaWD&OM!Ii Scbenec1ady) DARI- TREET 'Student Discount' . (~ith J.D.) 2049 V•n Vrallken Mon.-Fri. 6-9, Sat.l-9 377-4161 YOUR UNION I.D. CARD .IS WORTH 10% MORE AT THE COMPLETE RECO.RD & TAPE' STORE * * * * * APEX MUSIC KORNER * * * * * CO,RNER OF STATE& BROADWAY

Page8 CONCORDIENSIS, Thursday, February 28, 1974 Hoopsters Trounce Tufts by HANK BERNSTEIN and BRIAN TUCKER The rampaging Dutchmen continued their ways last week, coasting past Utica 71-53, Tufts 95-71, and Binghamton 71-52, all in Memorial Fieldhouse and closing an unbeaten horne basketball campaign. Now, the Garnet have narrowed their dwindling list of season's goals to two - a 20 victory regular season record and an expected tournament berth. about the game,\ ollerea Ult Union coach. \It's easier to say that the first haM of that game '.Vas the best half of basketball we've ever played. We played a real smart, intellectual game. We were great on defense an@ patient on offense.\ The cagers were paced by \Leroy'' Kelly who pumped in 17 points in the first half and finished with 19 points and I ·I rebounds before being taken out with fhe rest of the starters midway through the second stama. Gugliotta took runnerup scoring honors with 15 points and also grabbed 10 rebounc;!s. while Chuck Abba. who hit his first three shots from the field. chipped in I 2 points and Denio finished with 10. Rounding out the scoring were Mody with 9. Combs 8, Dillon 3. Crawford 2, Marcinowski 6. Henson 2, Raymond 5, and Bones canning 4. . Scanlon was the first to \admit that Saturday's home finale against the Colonials of Binghamton was sorely anticlimactic after Fdday's emotional victory over the 16-5 Jumbos. Cornbs each scored eight points, while Dillon and Carmody each added six points and five assists apiece. Union's success boosted its win streak to nine games and left the sqt~ad at 17-2 on the season. The Dutchmen who protected their number one spot in the state poll, visit arch· rival RPI Thursday, who, by the Way. have won 9 of their last 1:0 games, crushing Hamilton by 30 points Tuesday, Clark on Friday, and Amherst the following Tuesday. The team urges you to make the trip to Troy on Thursday to see the\ game and show your support. Victory in each of its remairti._pg games would make the 197J:-74 Dutchmen the winningest- in the college's history, surpassing the 19-J mark set just two years ago. A tournament appea:ran.ce seems inevitable for the Garnet. The team is not eli'gible for the NCAA because of conference stupidity, but is eligible for the ECAC event and would doubtless enter it as the top seed, as well as hf\ving a good chance of hosting- it here in Union's Field House. \Leroy goes to the hoop\ photo by- Bill Erichson Last Wednesday, Union blitzed \ isiting Utica by 18 points and the margin could have heeh higher as the bench was gone to freely by Coach Scanlon. Leading all scorers in the game was \Flash\ Denio who usually demonstrates his prowess on defense but kept Utica honest by throwing in 25 point,s. Second high man was Charlie Gugliotta who canned 21 points on his 21st birthday, Chucky Abba, his timing still off due to illness, only sank 2 of lO shots but played his usual great defense against a much taller opponent and along with Leroy, pulled down the Garnet's share of bounds. Mody again controlled the game and chalked up 8 assists. Beaner came off the bench and hit key shots, going 5 for 5 from the field. On Friday night, the number one - ranked Dutchmen gave highly-regarded Tufts a 40 minute cram course in team basketball, and also used a dazzling display of shooting to topple the taller Jumbos who entered the game as New England:s fourth best team. \'We're playing as well now as we've every played,\ commented Scanlon and that fact was never more obvious than against Tufts. The Dutchmen, who shot an incredible 70 percent from the Ooor. had Tufts put away by halftime, 51-25. Union \only\ shot 48.5 percent against Binghamton but again had an -easy time of it. The Dutchmen held the Colonels without a field goal for the first six minutes of the contest before running up a 38-17 margin at halftime. WRESTLERS IN TOURNEY ••tt's hard to express my feeling Union started the second half with a 10-2 jump and had an embarrassingly huge 48-19 cushion with 15:37 to play before Scanlon humanely cleared the bench. Gugliotta paced Union with 13 points.Denio. hitting 5 of 7 shots, added I 0. His performance gave him a 29-36 overall shooting record for the last four games, 72 percent. Seniors Chuck Abba and Tom by FRANCO ISGRO The Union College wrestling team closed its season last weekend by capturing eight place in the 22 team New York State Association Wrestling Championships at Rochester. The University of Buffalo, the nation's 20th ranked Division 1 wrestling power took first place amassing 162 !;2 points, Brockport came in second place with 128 Y2 points and Oswego was third with 76 Y2. Union College collected 22 points to place eight place. The Union team entered tile championship with ·seven wrestlers. Freshman Ray Walker from Bronx. N.Y., wrestled in the I I 8 lb weight class. If e dropped an 11-3 decision to Keny, from Colgate. in the first round. · Captain Mark Zullo who entered the tourney with a ripped cartilage in his knee took fourth place in the 126 lb division. Zullo tQok a bye the first round. and decisioned .lubrey. from Albany State. 12-4 in the second roi.Jnd. In the third round he wrestled Albretch, a senior from Oswego, and lost on a dose decision 6-4-. In the consolation bracket he won one match and dropped . another to take fourth place. '· •• ,• ·';;:;-:: _<-;. ·>' ·-~-- In the 134 lb division. Bruce Freeman. coming hack from the flu. faced Keefe. from Binghamton and dropped an 8-2 decision. Scott Media. grappling at 150 pounds. dropped the first round match. but came back through the consolation bracket to capture 6th place. Tom Everett who didn't even get seeded with his 10-l record. ·took Horn from Albany in the first round 3-L In his second match he was forced to default after breaking a finger. Having \Ball-control by John 'Flash' Denio - Weeeeeo!\ photo by Bill Etichson \~ -~ ~ c:s··c~ ·~ .................. Don't Miss the dance at the Alumni Gym Saturday Nite at 8:30 p.m. sponsored by the Black Student Alliance and the Women's Caucus. tevrs Dave's Mens Shop 453 State St. f (downtown Schenectady) 1 'J\~tl'\ . ~.·I Pizzene ~ 783 ALBAN\' ST. No delivery charge with two 8 cut pizzas. WE DILIVt:lt UNnL MIDNIGHT ClD 374-5680 seen the finals in Tom's weight class Coach Knull believed that Everett could have taken first place. Everett, a sophomore and a native of Peru, New York, has quite an outstanding dual meet record. In his two years of varsity wrestling, here at Union College, he has accumulated an. impressive 23-3-1 record. Mike_ Paquette, . the second frosh on the team. wrestled the eventual weight class champ, on his first match. He dropped a 16- 4 · · to Brockport. In the consolation bracket he came on strong to take fifth place. \Dainty\ DeCesare took a bye the first round and then was defeated by the e·ventual weight class champion. Overall. it was qui.te a team accomplishment for the Knull .. - coached squad. With only three seniors graduating. Steve Shutzer, Mark Zullo and Don DeCesare, next year's outlook is brightful indeed. \Charlie G. goes way up;for two..,, photo by Bill Erichson '• •,' '~ \ ., .. ~~-\ 1,.-_\\ -· \f·i ,_.,, . I -<' ~~~\: ;.- > ' • .~:~·; ~ ~· .. , :'~ • • ••

I r • 11 •• > .l)on~t ·lliiss Social Committee Dance Friday nite, Feb .. 8, $1.00 Admission, . plenty of BEER There was worlds of repu.tatiof} in it, but no money.- Mark Twain.!~...----~ Vol.103, N(). 10 ...... Thursday, February 7,1974 ·coNCORD¥: Our Line Union Financial Crisis For aU of you who claim that certain \influential groups\ on . campus can get anything they want done, Concordy is frustrated to announce that we have not made it to the top. It's nat that we can't find the news and get informati0n, we've been pretty !!Uccessful at that. Rafher, our inferior status has been flaunted in our face by by CHRIS O'CONNOR Union CoHege has an innovative, in some ways unique, approach to developing its yearly budgets, and in deciding which priorities will be met by the available resources. Logically enough, the Budget and Priorities Committee plays an important role in this process. The Committee consists of two faculty ·members from each division of the College, four students, the Provost, the Comptroller, and the Dean of Faculty. To illustrate this process and outline the Committee's role in it, the development of the 1974-75 College budget will he traced. our lack of ability to get a phone. . It is true that we have a phone number, ·which is haJf the battle. Still and all, we are rather curious as to where the phone has been installed. When we dial the magic number of 370-6155 we do hear this telephone ringing; but to no avail ~ no one will answer it and tell us where it is. · . If you are studying late. one night, and hear this ringing coming from behind yom radiator or under your bed, please check out the noise. And if you trace it to anything ·whch in arty way resembles a telephone please get in touch with us through Mrs'. Marra in the Student Activities Office. For all of you have have been trying to get in touch with us and fuming because, \wasn't it Concordy~ who wanted to hear from all the students,\ please keep on trying. As soon as we ffndthe phone we promise to answer it. the editors The initial step is for all those people who are responsible for Se.nate: No Decision program- spending, (i.e., department chairmen, the deans of the College, Maintainence, etc.) to submit requests for the upcoming year to the Provost. by BLAIR REISCHER The All-College Senate. again postponed consideration of the proposed 12-point grading system at its Meeting on February 5. The proposed g!_a.~iJlJL~JJ~~ utilizes .pluses and mmuses w1th. letter grades. For example,. an 'A' will be worth 4 quality points, a_n 'A-' worth 3.7, a 'I! plus' worth 3.3, etc. This proposal was approved by the All-College Senate last October. After violent reaction by students to the change, the Senate reconsidered it and postponed it· until this week's meeting. A motion offered by Paul Corwin to refer the grading p·roposal to an Ad Hoc Committee, which wo~ld study it and bring it or altematives back to the Senate, failed, 1.0-l I. Another motion. by Dean Smith, to table the proposal for two meetings, pas5ed. unanimously. This motion was passed on the understanding that the Student Senators would consolidate the arguments both for and against the proposal 1 and its alternatives. Provost Enteman said that he did not know whether it would be possible to implement any change in the grading system for the school year beginning next September. It is expected that at the Senate Meeting on Match 19, the grading system will be settled on finally. In another action, the Senat-e approved the Political Science honorary society, Pi Sigma Alpha. A resolution deploring the procedures employed in creating and filling a new administrative position (Ass()ciate Dean of Faculty), passed 7-1, with 13 abstentions. The Provost and Bulletin Union defeated Hartwick in basketball on Feb. 6 by a score of 56-51 ill a tight battle. Hartwick was rated as the second best team in New York state. Chuck Abba played standout ban for the Garnet. This is done in the spring of the year before the budget will take Dean Lichterman both tried to effect; for example, requests for take the blaine for the situation. the 1974-75 fiscal year (July 1- Dean Lichterman requested June JO) were due May 15, 1973. · emergency consideration for a By the early fall of '73, these motion which would repeal all requests were all in, and an regulations concerning dogs on campus. The Senate. refused to estimate of expenditures and consider the item on an revenues was drawn up by the emergency basis, so it will be Provost for the year 1974-75. This brought up at the next meeting estimate showed a projected (February 28). Lichterman told deficit of $99.7,083. Concordiensis that his reason for Here is where_the Budget and proposing repeal of the 'dog Priorities Committee comes in, ordinance' (which he ·supported for the question is not so much · whether to cut funds or not, but last year) was that \ ... we what items will and wiiJ not be shouldn't have any laws ... that are cut. . The Committee, working unenforceable.\ closely with the Provost, tries to In a discussion of Union's determine what obligations must energy, Enteman reported that be met in a given year, and what savings on energy were in the 20 expenses may be put off. Faced to 30% range, measured over the with a million-dollar deficit, the same period last year. He Committee decided that it would expressed concern over the try to fulfill two -objectives: trucker's. strike, saying th~t it ~as holding tuition at its present level, a potentially .dan_gerous SituatiOn, and providing faculty and staff alt~ough dehvenes of f~el we~e with a long overdue pay raise. on ~ch~dule so fa,r. He satd. that If These were th~ two main goals, dehvenes were s!opped, the says committee chairman Prof. school has about SIX days fuel Kenneth L. Schick, goals which it reserves on hand. Enteman was hoped could be reached warned everyone to keep doors · h' h ''f' . · 1 1 - · ., f and windows shut, , saying: Wit, m t e mancla rea ttles o \Unless you want to go home and U~IO~ College. The~~ t~o stay with your parents for a few objectives have been realized m weeks, shut 'em.\ - \Throatism Hit Hard.\ The advent of the first Concordy of winter term brought some mighty wezra happenings .on the usually serene campus. A 20% drop in grades on an organic exam coincided with Concordy's publication, and fewer students l~ft campus for the weekend. Although some attributed this phenomenon to the energy cnszs, a reliable administrative spokesman termed it, wishful thinking. the . 1974-75 budget, but only through extensive clipping in other areas of the budget. How was tbe million-dollar\ deficit erased? First, the Provost and Comptroller re-estimated and re-examined revenues to raise the expected total revenue by $200,000 (the Strong Estate, for exampie, will provide seventy-two thousand unexpected: dollars). They at the same time cut expenditures on the physical plant by appwximately $160,000. This left a deficit of $640,000. At this point, a sub-committee was formed out of the Budget and Priorities Committee: consisting of two student and two faculty committee members, all senior administrative offices of the College (the President, the Comptroller, and all three deans), and the Provost. This group conducted interviews with each person who submitted a budget request last spring. Through the· work of this sub-committee, approximately $200,000 in new revenue was created, and $380,000 worth of expenditures were cut. The measures that increase revenue were: the abolition of a free tenth course per academic year, although students will now pay less for a tenth course then they do for the first nine; a raise in tuition and fees in the graduate and evening divisions; a 5-10% increase in lab fees;- a raise in dormitory rates. Expenditure cuts included: a change in sabbatical policy, so that temporary faculty will no longer be hired to replace faculty members on sabbatical unless absolutely n~cessary; dropping the student health insurance plan {Union is ()ne of the last Campaign by· CINDY SHEPPARD Congressman Ogden Reid (D.- N.Y.), will speak at Union in the Student Center in Strauss Lounge on Friday, Feb. 8 at 12:30. A student group, headed by Ellyn Roth, is currently in the developing stages of supporting Reid's candidacy. This group hopes for a grassroots political effort involving Union students. Reid is currently serving his sixth term in the U. S. House of Representatives, . representing New York's 24th District. His public service career began in 1959, when he served as Ambassador ,to Israel. Upon returning from the Middle East, he became chairman of the New York State Human Rights Commission, and later sponsored the first Voting Rights Act in 1965. He was first elected to Congress in 1962, and has served on the Committees of Education, Labor, and Government Operations. Reid has been a long-time advocate of expanding higher education opportunities, and co- authored the National Defense Education Act. Reid also co- authored the Freedom of Information Act, which has been instrumental in the drive for public access to non-sensitive government information. Mr. Timberlake- the search for $1 million. photo by Blair Reischrer schools to drop this type orr program); a 10% cut.in the budget for inter-collegiate athletics; more cuts from the physical plant bud~et. With these and other much smaller cuts, the deficit was reduced to $64,000. Since the .budget for 1973-74, snowed a $79,000 surplus, permission was received from the Trustees to consider the cumulative two year budget balanced with a net surplus of approximately $14,000. Thus, the budget was balanced w:ltile maintaining the primary objectives set by tile Budget and P~iorities Committee; no tuition increase, and a pay increase for faculty and staff. The uniqueness of Union's process is that budget allocations are not imposed on faculty and students by the administration, but all three groups attempt through this committee to decide where the limited resources of the College can be best spent. More detailed information on this year•s budget is forthcoming, in a letter to the campus from the Provost. New Dean Edward J. Craig, Union College '48, and member of the College faculty for 19 years, has been named Associate Dean of the Faculty at Union. The appointment is effective July I,. 1974 with Prof. Craig, now chairman of the Electrical Engineering Department, taking on responsibilities in the broad areas of' engineering and trans- disciplinary studies. His academic specialty is electromagnetic field theory and electron optics and he is the author of two books and numerous other publications in !tis field.

Page2. CONCORDIENSJS, Thursday, February 7, 1974 Editors-in-chief ................. Judy Dein, Bill Talis News Editor, ............................ Phyllis Edelman Culture Editor .................................. Pete Sobol Sports Editor ................................. Bart Mercer Photo Editor... ............................... Bill Erichson Ass't Photo Editor ......... , .......... Leslie Steineker Copy Editor. .................................. Phil Alcabes Blithering Editors ..................... Rob Modschein Chris o~connor Business Editor ............................. Al~tn Gnessin National Advertising ...................... Steve Kelley Subscriptions Editar .............. Genie Rosenblum Layout ................... Dave Strom, Linda Mackey Concordiensis is published every Thursday by the student body of Union College, Old Gym Hflll. Schenectady. N.Y., Publications Office, The Jewish World Publicatio.ns. 771 State St., Schenectady, N.Y., 12307 (346-2356). Entered in th~ Schenectady Post Office as Second Class Matter. Subscription· Rate 35 cents per c 0 py, $8:00 a year delivered anywhere in the United States. Deadline for C?.PY is T~:~day 5:00 P.M. Whither the Caucus? Union College is attempting, rather half-heartedly, to alter its \men's school\ image. The need for women to meet and discuss their problems in a not-so-co-ed school has led to the formation of a Women's Caucus. It seems, however, that while accepting the fact that females in general lu:ve the ability to organize and lead potentially influential movements, no woman at Union appears willing to assume responsibility for the Caucus. One begins .to wonder .at the lack of leadership among the Caucus members. While it is true that the women have planned an extensive program for the week of February 24-March 2, it seems that things often get done despite themselves. Good ideas were offered too late and were C()nsequently passed over. Some women were losing patience at the meetings, and finally on February 4, after being in existence f<>r a term, the Caucus voted to have elections next week. There are women who have the ability to plan a,nd co-ordinate the group, why then have they taken so long to request responsibility? Two factors appear to 'have kept the Caucus from deciding to elect leaders. These points will have to be clarified in all the women's minds if they are to have a successful organization. First, it seems that the majority fear that their opinions will not be heard if a \ruling elite\ is created. This fear is groundless when one considers the numerous and varied opinions offered at the meetings; Each woman was vehement about her own suggestion, and no one seemed the type to be cowed in the face of a new leadership. Leadership will simply insure the enactment of the various suggestions. Another reason which is keeping those who are capable and desirous of leadership from making themselves heard is that women shy away from being asso~iated with a \women's group.\ This phrase immediately brings t() mind a group of stocky, muscular, bra-less women who sit amund and drink beer while they curse men. Once again this should be considered a groundless fear. While the group is new and has !'lot determined its exact policies and beliefs, it does not appear to be following the path which leads from male dominance to female chauvinism. It is the group's duty to make the campus community aware of their true beliefs. Once everyone is familiar with the purpose of the Caucus, the stereo- types will be dispelled. Not everyone can or wants to lead an organization; it does take a lot of work. But, it seems tltat the need for the Women's Caucus and the potential for leadership definitely exist. The group has started in the right direction by deciding to hold elections for two chairwomen Monday night; llopefully a united and effective organization will follow. There are a lot of competent and creative women at Union, and it's time that everyone, including the women themselves, recognized them. the editors Flix Follow up by P.ETE SOBOL It is not true, 'as inferred in the last issue of Concordiensis, that Film Haps is involved in a lawsuit for $5,000. It is true, however, that Film Haps could become involved in a fine for $5,000. As promised, tflis reporter has followed the story to what if not the end, is certainly hitter. There is no doubt that Film Haps will cease operations after they have completed their remaining engagements with the film companies. The cause of their cessation is up for grabs. Howard Epstein, representative for Film Haps, has assured Concotdy that Film Haps is dissolving itself. He has stated that running a film company is a thankless and tiring business. The ~creeniRg schedule must be planned a term in advance, without prior knowledge of conflicting Social Committee and fraternity functions. He also stated that, for all the work, pecuniary profit is paltry. Dean Wylen stated that he had been in favor of the digestion and absorption of Film Haps into the Social Committee since before the violation was brought to light. He also believes that greater efficiency of operation and improvement of film quality would result from this action. Also, with films now being shown by the Social Committee, the door price would drop to twenty- five cents. The new film committee, which would o.perate under the social committee (thereby allowing coordination of film dates with other social activities) would be accountable only to the Steering Committee. The personnel of the film committee, which will consist of nine individuals plus the director of projection facilities ex- officio, will be appointed by the Committee on Committees. And you can put that in your committee and smoke it. So for one reason or another, Film Haps will soon be dead. It strikes this reporter that if the job of operating the film committee will be as disagreeable a task as Epstein has portrayed it, there will be few who will accept the post, especially now that the possibility of financial reward, although always miniscule, will be nil. You Said It I FiiDI- Flak Editors, Concordiensis: movies at Union, but not if I have to finance ~hem myself! As an affiliat~ of Film Haps for the past four years, I would like to respond te Pete Sobol's article: (which actually should have been a letter to the editor and not an article for all its misinformation) which appeared in the last issue of Concordy. . I am not trying to pat myself on the baclc, or rnake a ma.rtyr out 0f Film Haps. I am well aware that there are many problems and short-comings involved with this organization. Despite our numerous short- comings, · we have still been the ,only constant, weekly form of entertainment provided on this ,campus in my three and a half years here. Film Haps met with Dean Wylen, Jirn Alberg, and a member of the Student Tax Committee two weeks ago, at which time we discussed alternatives to Film Haps. Whilf! we aU agreed that Film Haps might have to cease to function after this term, at that time no one could come up With another way to show weekly movies at Union. Well, since I am graduating in Match, and I guess l don't much give a damn whether movies are shown here or not. I feel that I have done what I could while I have. been here. However, it seems to me that there should be _quite a few others who do care, and something shouM be done about it beyond Pete's idea of \yeah-rah competition!\ First of all, I would like to be very explicit in saying that Film Haps is not on the verge of a law suit with any film rental company. It is true that we have shown films-two nights while they are often (though not always) booked for one. This has been necessary to keep us from running a deficit. Film Haps has operated this way for several years {before 'I even heard of Union C<:>llege), as do most other small college film societies which are run by individuals,. and not by the school. There has never been any fear, nor mention of a law suit until two weeks ago. The College, in the persons of Dean Wylen and Provost Enteman, cannot officially approve of Film Haps renting the College's equipment on such terms, and therefore, we are complying by showing only films which are contractet'f for t'-\'O nights. All of our films to be shown this term have been contracted for fwo nights, of which I am sure Pete was unaware when he wrote his article. However, it is also interesting to note that while Film Haps has been forced to refrain from showing films beyond the limits of their contract, to date no attempt has been made to stop the Film Series from showing films on Friday nights, Which have been contracted and sqown for a Thursday afternoon Comp. Ed. Class. l am obviously not condemning this practice; I am well aware that it is the only way the Comp. Ed. class can afford to function. It just seems to me there is some inequity in allowing one group to continue to function with an illegality, while forcing another group to cease functioning with the same illegality: I would also like to make it known that as long ago as Spring 1972, Film Haps approached members of the Social Committee with the idea of integrating some sort of film group intQ. · the Committee budget. We were told they Weren't interested. We have asked several times since, and nothing has ever come of it. We are running Film Haps because we feel there ought to be movies available to .the students of Union College. It is true that we are running on a profit, which is very marginal, but that is only because we cannot (obviously) afford to run on a deficit. When we lose money, it comes out of our own pockets. Yes, I want there to be Susie Sosensky PJ:esident of Film Haps Editors, Concordiensis: In response to Pete Sobol's article, \Fight of the Flicks,\ I would like to take issue with most of his statements. The primary criticism rests with his belief that the dawn of a new era of theraputic competition is at hand. Film Haps does not wish to nor is it in any position to compete with a school-subsidized organization. In fact,. Film Haps asked to become a student body function last spring and received a negative response. The organization is not designed to rip-off students as may be deduced . from reading Pete's article. It started as a profit-making venture but the days of surfeit are long past. Rising movie costs, room and projection fees, and sagging attendance have greatly reduced the large remuneration received by Film Haps partners as little as four years ago. The One-Night-Stand clause violation was established with the organization but has come into the limelight only recently. The sole justification: I can o(fer for this illegal practice is that it is the only way Film Haps can afford to bring movies to this campus. A legal two-night showing would add between $100-$200 to our weekly costs and force us to operate in the red. We do make money on certain films but then we lose on others. Over a term, we strive to -keep net income as high as possible, hut this in no way implies we are t;naking an Continued on page 3 •. There is a lot of talk 0 ·~ this campus that there is nothing to do. Nonsense! Watch the weather. Notice the grac~ful drops in temperature. Observe the sensuous flowings of the cold fronts. Witness the almost playful change of climate from sylvan to sub· zero. Experience the indescribable joy of leaving yout hat in your ' room on a beautiful morning, D'nly to have your nose fall o.fffrom the cold when you leave the library at night. Nothing to do? B-r-r- ridiculous!

elf ell of a I~ I d d ., . FILM FLAK . Continued from page 2 enormous profit off onr fellow students. Last term our individual shares of prafit rank in the $40 to $50 range. CompaFe this to Jim . Alhe~g·s $250 per term salary as Director of Projection Facilities .. l can only see a benefit to the college community if campus movies are run by the school. An mganization with a budget from the tal( committee can afford to lower admission. Students appointed to the film committee would not need to worry about losses coming fr.om their own pockets and could afford ·to experiment more with their selectians and price range of films. Witness the recent joint venture between the Social Committee and Film Haps. Granted the sound was lousy and one film wasn't overly popular, but it was wen~attended and provided the opportunity to .show more expensive and consequently more popular movies. Film Haps has not enjoyed a rosy reputation, but I feel much of the criticism is unjustified. The people in the organization are not the same as those who ran it in the past and shouldn't inherit the criticism caused by past wrongs. We only want to take credit for our own mistakes. Regardless of whether· films are provided by private individuals or by the school, technical difficulties aren't going to be eliminated. After all Pete, who's the present Director of Projection Facilities? Denise Ruthenberg 1,4 . of Film Haps Nott News Editors, Concordiensis: I am enthusiastic that plans are being presented to restore N ott Memorial. However, I think that the campus community must seriously consider the fate and utilization of the building. Personally, I object vehemently to utilizing N ott as a meeting place and Admissions offices. This would not. really be practical, since it indicates a duplication of existing facilities which are seemingly adequate such as SS 016, and Old Gym Hall, the student center and especially since WR UC has been relocated. This proposal is contrary to the supposed concern for the integration of the campus community, since it jeopardizes the futme of the current inhabi- tants and the potential creation of a comprehensive cultural center. Nott is an enchantingly adaptable structure for dramatic productions of the Mountebanks. Furthermore, if the Bookstore were installed in Carnegie; the space could be transformed into a campus art gallery. I feel that this would be an important step for Union to create a cultural center which would contribute to the unity of the campus community and display of artistic endeavors. As a cultural center, the Nott would create a diversion for Special election A special election will be held in order to fill one of the Class of . '76 positions on the Steering Committee that has vacated this term. Those wishing to run must be members of the Class of '76. Petitions are still available at the Student Activities Office in Old Gym Hall. A minimum of 100 signatures, all of which must come from the Class of '76, are necessary. Petitions are due back in the Student Activities Office by 12 Noon on Monday, February II. 'The order of appearance or11 the ballot will be determined by the order in which complete<: petitions are received. All ·petitions will be checked by th(' Elections Committee. The election itself will be held on Tuesday, Feb. 12 from 9 am to 9 P.M. in the STUDENT ·ACTIVITIES OFFICE. If necessary, a runoff will be held on Wednesday, F'eb. 13 at the same times and location. l-0r further information, contact Harry Lessin: 372-9730. - You Said It!· Sing_·out BY MARCIA PODGORSKI ••Hark! The Union angels sing ... \ (well, almost). Let it be known that thel'e are women at Union who want to and are able to sing! Known as tile Women's · Chorus and under the direction of Ms. Pat Decker, the 25-member group has been together since early fall term. After intense rec.ruitment, practice, and preparation, the girls are ready to make their debut on February 15, at the first of a series of three Friday Musicales. Their first program will consist of works by Brahms, Purcell, and Morley. communication. Each organization of notice category ' would have a designated area for Nott Renovation: Battle to preserve a .dying tradition? students and woma oe \II • accessible medium for campus exchange and involvement. It would also function as a cozy meeting place and would afford a degree of \culture\ to the campus environs. It would be quite interesting and rewarding to install historical artifacts related to Union's history to create an awareness in the campus community. In keeping with the principles of architecture-form comp- lements function-it seems proper that Nott Memorial be destined to be a campus cultural center, inspired by its central location and cozy habitat. This would be a positive, worthwhile contribution to campus unity and interaction,. rather than the somewhat bizarre utilizaflon of N ott as an administration center, restricted to a select group. The facilities do rtot really seem to be servicea\lle to such a function, and some of the readaptations and expenses, such as an elevator and a new entrance, are rather strange and unnecessary. After all, the objective is to preserve the original grandeur of this century- old structure, not to modernize and restructure iC It is horrifying to think that the Nott's future is unduly threatened since it has been a source of pleasurable entertainment for many. Moreover, what is the fate of the Mountebanks and the artistic and cultural modes of self-expression for students since no alternatives have been proposed. Sinterely, Barbara Halpern '74 Good Idea Editors, Concordiensis: This letter is directed to the campus community asking for your cooperation in conserving paper during the impending paper shortage. it is apparent that student groups· use paper excessively posting duplications of notices on dorm doors and bulletin boards. Is this really necessary? Perhaps the implemen- tation of a comprehensive bulletin board in front of the library and in the Student Center and in the dorms would be sensible and convenient as Information centers, supplemented by the other channels of communication: Concordy, WRUC, and Union's Week. If students know that information is limited to certain locations, they will have to actively seek it out. Besides, since the same notices are plastered all over, no one really bothers to read the bulletins any more. This would undoubtedly contribute to the necessary organization and classification of notices, creating enhanced readability and efficient :::[ev~·~s · ~1 ( ' • • • Dave's Mens Shop -153 State St. (downt~ Sclu:nect&dy) postin.g current notices. The central dispatch point would be t'he Student Center, which would encourage people to utilize the facility and socialize. In this way, the ~;:ommunication network would create a visual \yellow pages.\ l am asking for the support of student organizations in this endeavor, but more importantly, the campus community must be more responsive to times of events and make menta] notes of activities. There is no need to be reminded by a \barrage\ of wasted copies. Students are also reminded to recycle the paper, either as scrap or to use both sides of the page for notices. It is about time that we really got it together! Sincerely, Barbara Halpern S.aga Blues Editors, Concordiensis: Many of you eating at West have noticed the signs for \Food Committee Meetings.\ This committee is composed of students on the board plan interested in improvements and planning the weekly menu. We look at such things as populai:ity of items, .entree selection, cost, and other menu complexities. Another part of our meeting is centered around communication. .Questions about what students like and dislike, what will bring about the highest overall satisfaction. We feel the committee has, so far this term, been very beneficial and quite a few improvements have resulted from our meetings: Below is a list of committee members who . are quite well versed on what is going on here at West and in the economy as far as food is concerned. Feel free to contact them if you have any comments about the food service . They are here to help you. · Debbie Kilgus, Dean of Housing Wendy Moss, West Barbara Sarnof, West Yvonne Lavender, West Peter Shore, West Cindy Fawcett, West Joni Becker, Fox Rodney Aldrich, Edwards Chris Nadherny, Sigma Chi - Gary llipp Food Service Manager The Friday Musicale {bring your lunch and listen} is an innovative attempt to bring the \Union College Family\ (i.e. students, faculty, administration, College personnel) and· good music together in an informal atmosphe,re. The performances are scheduled for February 15, March 8, and March 22, from 12:30-1:30 p.m. in Old Chapel (Chamber music will be featured in addition to the Women's Chorus). TheFe is no admission charge. Bailey Chair David W. Reece, professor of classics at Union College since 1967, has been named Frank Bailey 'Professor of Greek, Latin, and Ancient Language at Union. Prof. Reece will assume the Bailey Chair, Sep.t. l, 1974. A native of Bristel, England, Prof. Reece earned degrees in classics from Oxford University and was a senior lecturer in humanities at Aberdeen University in Scotland when he first came to Union in 1964 on a one-year appointment as a visiting professor. He returned to Union in 1967 as Professor of Classics and chairman of the department. The Bailey Professorship is named for long-time trustee Frank Bailey, an 1885 graduate of Union who from 1901 until his death in 1953, served as Treasurer of the College. Prof. Reece is the first person to hold the chair since the retirement of Prvf. Harrison C. Coffin in 1959. Prof. Reece, a specialist in Roman history, has published a number of papers in the field, the most recent entitled .. The Technological Weakness of the Roman World.\ He is a member of the American Philological Association, the Classical Association of Canada, and the British societies for the promotion of Greek and Roman studies. A New High in Student Activities. photo by Dave Strom YOUR UNION 1.0. CARD IS WORTH 10% MORE AT THE COMPLETE RECORD. & TAPE' STORE * * * * * APEX MUSIC KORNER * * * * *· CORNER OF STATE& BROADWAY Page3 6 Years Law by CINDY SHEPPAHV Union College and Albany Law School have initiated a new program which allows selected students to earn a 'law degree six years after entering college, as opposed to the traditional seven years. Scheduled to begin in September 1974, the program will include selected current freshmen in addition to future incoming students. Up to ten selected students are ann u a II y s c he d u 1 e d for participation. They will major in ••Law and Public Policy,\ a new academic concentration that stresses economics and political science. After this special three-year program, participating students with a minimum cumulative average of 3.0 will be automa- tierilly accepted at Albany Law School. Upon completion of the first year at Albany, students will receive the bachelor's degree from Union College. Two years later, requirements for the law degree should be fulfilled. Union admissions director, and a coordinator of the program, Jay Schupe, explained that applicants to Union under this program will be considered separately, although refusal to the program does not eliminate the applicant from normal admission procedure. He sees the innovation as \a real compliment to the Economics and Political Science departments.\ He added, \they must be viewed as outstanding to be issued this kind of approval, expecially at this point in time when law school admission · is so competitive.\ He hopes that this will be seen as a precedent in setting up additional affiliative plans with various institutions and in other areas of study. Joseph B. Board, Patterson Professor of Government at Union and also a program coordinator, said, \the program is ideally suited to those whose choice of a legal career is already firmly established by the end of high school. Then they can proceed toward their goal by the shortest available route.\ In addition to Mr. Schupe and Prof Board, Martin Lichterman, Dean of the Faculty, is working with th~ program at Union. Coordinators at the Law School are Albany Dean Samuel M. Hesson and Assistant Dean John C. Welsh. • : 4 : I. JAKE LIPSTEIN'S UQUORS Tel. 374-ll88 Mon.-Sat. 9 a.m.-9 p.m. 464 Stat& St. Downtown Schenectady DARI- TREET 'Student Discount' (with U>~) 2049 Van Vranken Mon.-Fri. 6-9, Sat. 8·9 377-4261

Page4 CONCORDTENS/S, Thursday, February 7,. 1974 Calendar Feb. 7: Concert: Quartetto Beethovan Di :Roma, on first N. American tour, in Memorial Chapel at 8:30 p.m., free to Union, $3.00 for others. Gov't Action Expansion Progres.ses Feb. 8: Congressman Ogden Reid, Democratic Gubernatorial Candidate at The Student Center, Strauss Lounge, 12:30 p.m. Film Series: \La Dolce Vita,\ SS 016, 8:00 p.m. Basketball: Union vs. Kings Point, Fieldhouse, 8:00 p.m. Dance in Alumni Gym, sponsored by Social Committee, 10 p.m.-2:00 a.m., $1.00, Plenty of Beer! Feb. 9: Varsity Swimming, 4:00 p.m., Union vs. Norwich. The Steering Committee passed a unanimous resolution, to be presented to the All-College Senate, asking for rejection of the proposed 12 point grading system. 82% of the student body pojled was found to be in opposition to changing from the existing 4 point system. · by LAUREN GORDON Progress on Schaffer Library's addition seems to be pretty much on schedule, according to Dr. Edwin Tolan, Chief Librarian. The completion date had been April I. Dr. Tolan predicts that by April 15 of this year furniture and rugs will be installed in the new wing. Card catalogues and reference desks will be moved into the new wing and it will be open for use. Basketbali: Union vs. Trinity, Fieldhouse, 8:00 p.m. Union CoHege Movies: W.C. Fields, .. ¥ ou Can't Cheat an Honest Man,\ plus \Pink Panther,\ 8, 10:00 p.m., 75 cents, ss 016. Also discussed at the first meeting of the Steed ng Committee this term, January 30, was a status report of the Committee on Committees presented by Vice President :Mark Young. Regarding the selection of individuals to serve on college committees, several points were . raised: I. Initial application for committee assignments will be made through written applications of some length, including such items as the applicants• abilities, ideas, . etc. This letter of application will not be signed, rather it will be identified by using ID numbers, in order to insure unbiased selection. 2. After this initial screening process, the committee wiH then meet with the remaining applicants m interviews to determine the assignment of committee positions. Books will be transferred from the main library to the new wing. Also, there is a substantial number of books and periodicals that have been stored throughout the campus because the library does not have the capacity at present to hold them. All these volumes will also be moved to the extension starting in the spring term. Dr. Tolan hopes that there will be volunteers willing to help with the mov.ing. Because of the enormous amount of activity that Construction capsule cast continues and culmi11ates on concrete to contain considerable quantities C?f carrols and catd catalogs. . . } Coffeehouse at Old Chapel, featuring the Sensational Bob and Art from Syracuse, 9:30p.m., 50 cents and .. ammunition\ will be served. Student-Faculty SquaJre Dance at Alumni Gym, 8:30-11 p.m., bring sneakers or dance socks. Feb. 11: Dr. Amiya Chakravary, scholar from India, will speak on \Trends in Modern Indian Poetry: Tagore and His Successors,\ SS 016, at 7:30p.m. Women's Caucus meets at Strauss Lounge, 9:00 p.m. Feb. 12: Hillel Film Festival: The next concern brought before the Steering Committee dealt with the new contract negotiations with SAGA, now in progress. Many of the fringe benefits mentioned for inclusion in the new package were 9, 15, and 20 meal plans, and the use of one meal ticket in West, Hale House, and the Rathskellar. With this in mind, Debbie Glasser stated, \What difference does it make, nine lousy meals, or twenty lousy meals?\ \The Fixer,\ SS 016, 8:00 p.m. Feb. 13: P. J. Vatikiotis, Professor of Near and Middle East Politics at the Univ. of London, and visiting Prof. at Princeton U. Prof. Vatikiotis will speak on \Superpowers in the Middle East,\ in SS 016, 4:30 p.m. Sponsored by the Program in Comparative Communist Studies and the Political Forum. In other Stee~ing Committee decisions, the formation of a Parachute Club was slammed out, and the establishment of a Ping Pong Club was bailed out ... Student-Faculty Bridge, HHUL, 7:45 P·fl!· PLACEMENT NEWS ATTENTION ALL SENIORS!! Maybe it won't be such a bad year for job-hunting after all! We have some new companies to add to the recruiting schedule!! They are: Feb. 14- Thurs. U.S. Atomic Energy Commission- Engineering majors, economics, any major with an interest in business, must have a 3.0 or better. Feb. 19- Tues. Union Carbide, Linde Division - Elec. and Mech. engineers, or Masters in Civil engineering. Feb. 20-Wed. -U.S. Army Materiel Command - Elec. and Mech. engineers. Feb. 22-Fri. Federal Service Entrance Exam - I :00 p.m. in SSOJ 6-for students graduating before next August, for all entry level jobs in the Federal Government, Not For Summer Jobs. Feb. 27-Wed. - Proctor & Gamble - Any Major for Sales and Marketing career, training program. March 1-Fri. -- Adelphi Lawyer's Assistant Program - Information about training program for paralegal training. March 6- Wed. --- .Peace Corps & Vista - Group or individual sessions for information about and interviews for, any major. March 8-Fri. - Burroughs Corporation - Top computer m:~nufacturer and software company needs people for marketing and sales training program , any major acceptable, particularly interested in talking to women and minority students who may not have thought of a career in this area. March 13-Wed. - I.B.M. - For Svstem Engineering and Marketing training programs. will see any major aptitude even if major is music or Language. Sign Up Now For The Above Dates!! Chance Of A Lifetime!! In Placement Office. Don't Forget For Next Week: Friday, Feb. 8, Factory Mutual and Proctor & Gamble, Monday, Feb. 11, Eastman Kodak, Tuesday, Feb. 12, Johnson Service and Electronic Data Sys., Wed., Feb. 13, Internal Revenue Service and National Security Agency, Thurs, Feb. 14, Equitable of Iowa, Atomic Energy Com., Fri., Feb. 15, Lane Construction Company Art Exhibit by LEE RUSSELL The New Gallery in the Arts Building opened January 31 with an exhibit of woodcuts and linoleum cuts. The work, consisting of thirty prints, was all done by the students in Art 25/Comp. Ed. 79, taught by Mr. Charles Steckler last spring. The new art gallery is located on the first floor, in the small room ~· opposite the stairs. The exhibit is open from 2:00-5:00 p.m. from January 31 to February 8. There are always either professors or students on hand to greet visitors and to talk about the course or particular prints. There is a sign- in book to determine interest, and cookies are served for those who want to cat and catch the exhibit between classes. The prints on exhibit utilize a variety of techniques and ideas. They are all black and white graphic impressions. Some attempt the realistic and others are more concerned with design. There are also quite a few self- portraits. Each one uses. a . different style in the negative- positive relation. Many have also attempted to get the wood texture on the print, thereby adding a · middle tone for a lively quality. ' will ·go on, there will be periods of inconvenience for the campus community. Therefore, any aid will make things that much easier. If one has been in the .first floor study area as ilf.late, he will have noticed the new study carrels - hig~ and wide, to insure more privacy. Thes.e carrels are representative of the furniture that will be in the new wing. Also, the whole addition will be catp.eted ~ no more clicking heels wiU announce an arrival 100 yards in advance. Culture at Union When asked about the present .and future situation of the all- night study room, Dr. Tolan conceded that there probably would not be one for the ~:est of the term due to the construction. There had been talk of an interim all-night study in the College Center, but that building is not sufficiently equipped. Dr. Tolan did say however, that when the new wing is completed, the all- night study room will be twice the present size. by JAMIE SIMONS As Bimum Wood comes to Dunsinane so comes a new wave of culture to Union College. She may move slowly and furtively, nevertheless her arrival is inevitable, and I may add. very welcome. The first sign of her presence Review by CHUCK ROTHMAN One could listen to Leo Kottke's guitar playing forever. His style is unique and impressive; the listener is immersed in perfect tonal quality. Kottke sings too. Unfortunately, his voice cannot match his guitar. These are the sources of the strengths and weaknesses of his latest album, Ice Water. Kottke's voice was once described as sounding like \geese farting on a muggy day.\ This is a bit inaccurate, but his voice is definitely not his strong point. He often has to strain to hit the high notes. His singing takes away from some songs. Indeed, some lose quality by c0ntaining lyrics when they are basically instrumentals, especially \Tilt Billings and the Student Prince.\ Kottke's guitar carries the album. He is backed unobtrusively by three guys named Bill; they neither add to, nor subtract from his effort. The album is of good quality throughout but . nothing really stands out and grabs you. Especially nice are the songs \Morning is the Long Way Home,\ \Short Stores,\ and \A Child Should be a Fish.\ was the Sunday afternoon concerts of Hugh Allen Wilson. ·The first concert, a harpsichord performance, and the second, an organ recital, were both well- attended by a receptive audience. Their success makes one long for the implementation of a regular Sunday afternoon concert series employing the talents of Prof. Wil.son and other accomplished members of the college community. The cultural emphasis shifted from music to art when the New Gallery opened its doors on January 3 I. The Gallery, which will have a permanent residence on the fi.cst floor of the Arts Building, premiered with a wine and cheese reception and a Mozart concert. The Gallery's first exhibit is a display of prints submitted by members of Charles Steckler's printmaking courses. Although this is a relatively unexplored art form at the. College, the exhibit has attracted many appreciative spectators. According to Mr. Steckler, the art of printmaking invplves \deveJoping a sensitivity for two- dimensional spatial balance with works representing a concern for the interaction between negative and positi-v:e space in a wide variety of graphic images.\ To facilitate understanding of the process involved, a seperate display case offers an explanation of the printmaking method. The exhibit, is open every day from 2 to 5 p.m. through February 8. The New Gallery will host a variety of exhibits throughout the year. Moving into the realm of drama, the Mountebanks will offer a rendition of Moliere's 17th century masterpiece Tartuffe from the 22nd of February through the 2nd of March. Volunteers: Help Wanted by JEANNIE: CASSIN The claim is often made by college students that there is just \nothing to do.\ Nothing that is, that can give one a feeling of usefu}ness to the community. On the other hand, many students are so busy preparing for the future that they rarely stop to think that someone or some cause may need them now. However, there are opportunities for constructive involvement in the community of Schenectady. The Schenectady Humane Society Children•s Shelter is located at 210 Union Street. The shelter provides temporary protection for children from troubled families, while they are awaiting court action or placement in foster homes and institutions. M ts. DWyer, manager of the shelter, said that any volunteer help would be appreciated. Many of the children have special problems, and could benefit greatly from individual attention. Anyone with the time to give should call the Shelter any morning (before I p.m.) at 346- 4252. Levrs Dave,s\Mens Shop . 453 State St. J (downtown Sc~ncclady) j FERRO'S PHARMACY· 'STUDENT DISCOUNr . 575 Nott St. 377•0510 346-9309. I •I !. . 'I li:

j Vol.l No.2 James Grant was sentenced to 25 yel)rs imprisonment. T.J. Reddy received 20 yeats, and Charles Parker ggt 10. All three men were convicted on July 15, !972 for alledgedly burning down a 'barn at the Lazy · B R,iding Stables in Charlotte, North Carolina on September 24, 1968. The three men were Black. The owner of the Lazy B was white. · When the State presented its case, the defendants were charged with burni,ng and plotting to burn the barn (a BARN?) together. The defense presented four witnesses testifying that Grant was at Penn State when the crime was committed. The prosecution's response was to present as evidence 11 bank· note, with Gra·nt's signature, signed and dated September 24, I 968 by a hank secretary. This note (for opening an account) was presented by the prosecution as· further evidence proving that Grant had to be in Charlotte during the time of the fire. A signed and dated statement does not prove that Grant was in the bank on the day in question (he could have signed it, mailed it and the secretary could have dated it later), but the prosecution was allowed to reach that conclusion. There was other flimsy evidence submitted. At one .point, sworn testimony for the prosecution contradicted . written statements hy the prosecution witnesses - hut both were allowed as evidence. Naturally, the men had no proper jury: the only Black juror was an old woman who could hardly hear. The prosecution failed to establish - with officials from the fire department - tbat arson had actually taken place. Of course, any person can find logical reasons for saying a trial was unfair if he disagrees with the verdict. But, for this case, consider a few other facts. The two star witnesses' for the prosecution were being held on unrelated charges when they decided to make their statements implicating Grant, Reddy, and Parker. Their statements also implicated another Black man, Clarence Harrison, who pleaded \guilty\ to the charges. Clarence was not known by the other defendants, and was not called in as a prosecution witness. Grant, Reddy and Parker were The Union College' Black Student's Alliance Newspaper =February 7, 1974 all very active in the Black political struggle in North Carolina. Grant, was a correspondent for various activist publicatio.ns (Souther-n Patriot and African World, among others), a member of the Southern Christian Leadership Conference and a community organizer for the American Friends Service Committee-. He, ' ~erved as a delegate to the Black Political Convention in Gary, l'ndiana in March, 1972. The North Carolina Political Prisoners Committee wants to free \the Charlotte Three\ and others whose only crimes are disagreeing with the State. You can help by wri.ting, telegraphing or calling the Governor and urging him to .commute the three men's sentences. Only through public clamor can anything be d0ne. The Governor's address is: The Honorable James E. Holshouser, Jr., Office of the Governor, State of North Carolina, Raleigh, N.C. 27611. Members of the Black Alliance have voted to send a telegram asking that, at :least, the Governor review all aspects of the case. We would suggest that others on campus petition the Governor, also. It would be a most symbolic gesture if a few members of our prestigious faculty were to make a . public statement expressing conce·rn that three men could be sentenced to \25. 20 and 10 years for burning a barn. <Taken from Repression in North Carolina: the Lazy B Stables Case, by the North Carolina P<Jlitical Prisoners Committee, Post Office Box 2712, Charlotte, N.C. 28201. A copy is in the Black Alliance Information Center.) T.J. Reddy got 20 years for burning down a barn (supposedly) of the Lazy B Stables in Charlotte, North Carolina. He was convicted along with Dr. James Grant and Charles Parker. Black On Blackness I am not white,.. (sound of deep echo) ... For me and 35 million others like me this possibility does not exist - and this is in spite of an on going his!oric psychological war waged against black people. And stupid as it may sound-or- simple my statement as a realization is important: it represents the exact internal point from which blacks can begin, and deal with themselves as honest people. The De an And A.O.C . . For a brilliant but confused Those blacks who do not Dubois, whiteness was a recGgnize the invalidity of western legitimate half of the black self. disciplines such as philosophy, He, pitifully, thought th.at each psychology and anthropology - black had to reconcile the the abstracted essences of neo- dialectical ambivalence within imperialism and go on to accept himself to be both black and them soon become abstract, Amerikan (white). Importantly miserable and of no value to however, admitted that he was hlack people. Richard Wright, tortured through his efforts to be Ralph Ellison, Robert Williams, both Amerikan (white) and black, James Baldwin and a whole and he recognized correctly that generation of great black minds the two values were basically were· blown through their doomed antithetical to one another. What struggle to think within the he failed to understand - and confines of systems fundamentally what warped his thinking and his at odds with human life. life - was that the -deeply felt Angela Davis and Huey need to strive to be Amerikan was Newton are obvious cases in not a true insight at all but an point. Both of them speak in insane response to being black, terms of complex Marxist the neurosis being Imposed from dialectics which the people the outside by the white power rightously reject as being abstract structure. This mystification of and buiJshit. Leroy M<Jore, the new Assistant Dean of Students, is better known to most of us as Leroy, the <-me in charge of all minority affairs. Now, he has been officially tecognized and given the title Assistant Dean of Students by the administration. The major fesponsibilities of Dean Moore besides those which come with the title ate Director of A.O.C. and Coordinator of Minority Affairs. There is a good deal of overlap and flexibility with respect to all his duties. As the Assistant Dean of Students, his activities are expanded to include all students. He is an invited member to the Committee on Standing, a member of the Conduct Committee, a member of Continued on Page t blackness served both as a means So blackness cannot be married of cultural genocide and a means to whiteness in any of its fucked- . of depriving black people of the up forms. As Freeman, in The ability to revolt. Spook Who Sat By the Door, It is a tribute to the tells his best friend, a tom technological greatness of desperately trying to graft on a Amerikan capitalism and in more soul, \you cannot have it both recent times Amerikan Super- ways.\ There is no middle capitalism that their lobotomy ground. proce,ss has worked and continues Historically the movement of to work so well. hlack people to this realization What whiteness is, on one level, has been inexhorable yielding two is simply getting into acquiring major groups the true the necessary property upon revolutionaries who think the which identity, here, is based, system is spiritually degenerate and, . implicitly, embracing a within itself and those who only materialist value system which ask change insofar as the system forces blacks into antagonistic is unfair to them. relationships With their actual Fortunately this latter group - hrother's and sisters. the civil rights movement -- has But even more invidiously it oeen denied by the ruling class amounts to the underlying helief ilse1f which recogni7es that black that to be p~rt of the Amerikan ·people by nature are antithetical \\ay represented the highest level ;md destructive to its culture and of human evolution on earth. \alu·es. Blackness means motion, This helief is especially evident in ~:reativity, uncontrollable energy, lhosc knee-grows who as middle ~pir.ituality-anathcrna to a society dass professionals, or Union hased on standing still, College students, think of commodities, repression and themselves as superior t<J black hatred of spiritual or human ~orkers, black junkies, black things . .As Alan Watts · · a white ~ inos and black whores. man -- perceptively notes, the Curtis Rowe taking asllot during an Alliance win. On another level one can (lnly spirituality to be found in hecome white simply by accepting lhe west is to be found among any of western white cultures \artistic\ or intellectual fotms. Continued on page 8

PageD PERSPECTIVE, Thursday, February 7; 1974 ' Black Journal Black JournaUsm The experiences of Black. people on the whole in white America indicates that it is time to change om relationship so that Black people can attain the personal dignity that every man and woman should have. We must remove ourselves from certain ideas that have traditionally helped to perpetrate injustices on Black and other minority peoples. Though you may scoff and ask \What injustices?\ it would be sufficient to mention the high mortality rate of infants among non-whites as compared to whites in America, or to note how the frustration and despair of Black people in large urban areas still manifests itself in the. form of fratricide and other acts of violence. (Frantz Famm, in The Wretched of the Earth, says that colonized people are \traamaticized\ by the oppressor's violence and this trauma leads to acts -of violence against ·other colonized. people.) In order to help· remove Black people from traditionally destractive white ideas, many different forms of communicati()n are needed including movies, books, music, poetry and the Black press. It is always important for an oppressed people to be well- informed and to have a forum for th,e free exchange of ideas. With a newspaper, Black people can docunent specific· instances of oppression so that they have mo.re than just a sense of their oppression. With a forum for the discussion of ideas, Black people can begin cataloguing and mapping out a system of revolutionary action, Besides the above~stated features, a Black ne-wspaper must provide a means for Black artists to reach Black audiences. A homogeneous Black culture can efficiently be attained through the arts as well as through documentatioJI (witness the effect of SuperOy on the Black community). That is why Black communities need the medium of a newspaper: to attain beneficial change, aiding the other necessary means. (This article appeared in the first issue of Perspeethe~) 0 ··· .. ··•· \'f . . ~ ~ Black on Blackness Professor Continued from page A that the true reason that southerners hate blacks is because they are jealous .. of their true religiousity which is beyond the material forms they are limited to. Thus I say that knee-grows can continue lo delude themselves with fantasies of becoming middle or upper class, Amerikans, Super- flies, intellectuals or hippies, but in the end a man is doomed to accept himself. And when this self-knowledge comes, the credentials, ties and wigs will fall ctway and black people will finally begin to resolve their problems the only way they possibly can - just as Fanbn has said - through revolution/. We Will Win Upward Bound . Jerry Cooke was appointed Assistant Director of Upward Bound almost a · year ago. Recently, he submitted his resignation so that he may finish his education. Jerry feels that Upward Bound has been a rich and beneficial experience, but it is time to move on to other things. Mrs. Janet Brown, College Guidance Counselor for Upward Bound, is also resigning to join her hus.band who has a new position in New York City. I worked with Janet and Jerry this summer as a tutor/counselor and know the effect they have on the students. The students had conflicts and confrontations with the two (part of growing up), but no one will be happy with their departvres. Jerry and Jartet helped to make Upward Bound WORK. In the next issue of PERSPECtiVE, we will present articles about the Upward Bound Program, and its staff. (Since I may want to work there again, r hetter mention that Mr. J. Anthony Sharp is the Director of Upward Bound.) T. Watts, Ed. Gouraige Professor Adrienne GouJiaige is a visiting professor of French this year at Union. She is a native of Haiti and she has been in the United States for seven years. Professor Gouraige now resides in Albany where her husband is a Professor at SUNY. Professor Gou.raige recei:ved all her secondary education in Haiti except for two years of grammar school in France. Then, she . attended the University d'Haiti. After that; she studied at the Sorbonne in Paris for four years where she received'her Licence~s­ Lettres which is ·similar to the Master's Degree. Professor Gouraige returned to Haiti and taught at high school and university levels [()r four years. Her topics of instruction Were Latin, French literature, and Haiitian literature. She then taught for two years at the College of St. R.ose and for one year at Skidmore. Professor Gouraige spent two years at Utopia Was it a dream? For a few days, I thought I had found true love. SUNY for her doctorate specializing ·in medieval French literature. She was interested in this subject because many of the medieval French words are still used in Haiti, which is an old French colony. Professor Gouraige said she likes the small atmosphere here at. Union and she enjoys working with the students. She does not know if she will be here at Union next year because she was only hired for this year as a visiting professor. Seeing that there is a need for m 0 re Black faculty, we hope to see Professor Gouraige next yea.r. She is well qualified for such a position. · Bon Chance! Sonia Pearson Info Center- The Black Student Alliance J·nformation Center; built by -the BSA under the supervision of Stephen lewis; bt;;gan its functional use Monday, Feb. 4. The center is located in the basement of Hickok House. The center will serve a two-fold function. First, students will find a Ja.rge collection of materials on the subjects of Black History, Black Heritage, • and the Black Man of i oday. Second, the center will serve as the office fof the Prospective Newspaper. . Hooks will be able to be taken 0, God! A fantasy ... Whybe one person so selfish. Let us all be one. Let us enjoy the joys of life together. The Holy Bible tells us aU that life is dear_ Let us, therefore; hold on to life, let us hold on to joy, let us all be brothers and sisters. Life is too precious to allow it to flow by, as the rivers do. Come aU and let us love to the day the sun sets forever ... ' out of the center with tlie presentation of your school l.D. card. Center hours will be as follows: Mon., Tues., ihurs., Fri., x·:JO a.m.-10:30 a.m., 2:00 p.rn.- 5:00 p.m., 1:00 p.m.•ll:OO p.m; Wed., 8:30 a.m.-11 :00 p.m; Sat. and Sun., lQ:oo·a.m.-11 :00 p.m. Sadluila N.lioms Anyone who can offer their~ services in the running of the center and who are interested in doing some art work for the center please contact; Stephen Lewis, Hickok House, 370•6147. Gloria V. Jones - ,, ·_:,- . ·. . . ~ .D .. E - . .. _ .... _\'. . . ' ' . . ·e:·. . '. : .•. ' ... _ .. \'. Dear Brothers & Sisters, Yesterday I received my first issue of Perspective. It was quite pleasing to see that the BSA had finally gotten a paper off the ground, something which Was attempted when I was a student at Union and a member of the BSA However, I was di~appoi.nted because 'l did not know until yesterday that a paper was in existence. As you well know, and as ypu have probably seen at Union, one of the most important things facing African People in North ·America is their lack of unity. This .single factor has caused the prematt~r.e death of countless Africans;. the demise of countless organizations . and the continued o·ppression of African people in thi$ country and the World over. Unity is like a series of concentric oircles: the innermost circle being unity of .self, follow.ed by unity in the fam.ily, progre!;sing thmugh other ·Circles of unity and ending with the· unity of the ·African World. For the Black Students Alliance, one area of unity which ' has 'not ···been . established/developed is the unity betWeen African students who have graduated from Union ~tnd thos~ who are presently ther~. It should not be too difficult to .find the· names of African .students who have attend~d Union during. the last ten years or so;. I douht.if you will find m~my AfFicaris at . Union ~efore this period, hut ') do !cnow there are some (an Albany man ·graduated in !955). A check into ·past .i!lsues of the yearbook should revea.I most, ,if not all; the names you will b~ looking for. To cover any you may have missed,. the !)SA can check with Africans on Union~s staff such a~ Mrs. Reid an<!- Mrs. Walker. . . Now; why should the BSA go through this bother? First. Africans need all the tin\itywe can get. Second, those who have left can be kept informed of what has been happening with African students at Union .. Third; we can also be informed of events which may interest. us. Fourth, we may have information, advice whi~h may be benefic.ial to you. For- example, jobs are tight. We may hear of things which could help you· in respect to employment. ·Sometimes, I hear of different graduate ..p.rograms for so-called \Minority Students.\ ihis k:ind of information can be passed on to you. There are many other reasons, l am sure, which can be given for establishing/ main- taining this kind of unity. Adefunmi {Michel. Williams) Tutorial Prograin A .new tutorial program is being offered on campus. This rrogram encompasses mathematics (algebra, trigonometry, and calculus), reading and compositional writing. This non-credit program will be held in the sprirtg term and the academic year 1974-75. It is our hope, that the program will he expanding, so that it )ncludes the sciences - chemistry and biology. This program is geared to the student's specific course needs (i.e. assistance in writing papeJ:s <Jnd reading course mateFiiil~. plus mathematical skHls). Some of the'· many benefits th~t will aid the students are: I. Developing better writing skills which are needed to produce college~level papers. 2. Develops reading and study skills, which are appropriate to student's cours.e.s of academic study. ~ . 3. Develops mathematical skills which will aid in maximizing the students chances for academic success. l\his program has been designed with the students needs in consideration. The .success of this program depends on the enthusiasm and attendance of the students. LeCs make this progt~m a success! · · The action at an AlliancE! basketball game. The Alliance team is un.defeated. .. D t ~) t .. ( I ( I

.)) If PERSPECTIVE, Thursday, February 7, 1974 PageC On Black -Consciousness Meetings· An organizational meeting of the Bl~ck Arts FESTIVAL Planning Committee will be held on Tuesday, February 12th, at 4:30 P.M. at Hickok Lounge. Those interested in planning the Black Arts Festival of 1'974 are invited to attend. duties will be. that of ordering books and p.eriodicals as well as spending a few hours a week on duty at the circulation desk. The Cultural Improvements Committee is being organized to enrich Hickok House with a number of paintings and sculpture to be designed and created by. the members appointed to the committee. The meeting will be held Friday, February 8 at 4:30 P.M. in Hickok Lounge. For any additional information, contact Stephen L~wis, 370-6147. The phenomenon · of BlacK. ('onsclousne~s. is not a. static concept, It is a (ly,riamic process. From observath:ms within the Caribbean, and. St. Vincent in particular, I have come to the conclusion that Black Consdoi;lsne~s mQves in stages: I would lib to classify these stages .as. t}ie S,bo£king Stage, the Bla~k Cocoon Stage, and the Liberated- Ideology Stage.. Let me state clea,rly, howeveF, that these stages are not rigid, \\nd that one can pass ovet the first stage into the second. Movement or1 to the third -stage seems to be the most difficult s_ince there -are certain lillJitations. or restrictions. · . The Shocking Stage, comes about as a •fes.ult of mistreatment and injustice meted out to Bjack people ·in general or personal attacks in insults ba&ed 0n the p.Qssession of a Black skin. the llrst reaction is one of hate and resentment. lt is very emotional and vinl~nt st~ge which can spilf over into racism. Physical attacks on whites have hee.n the results in some cases. Although Black people have suffered untold injustices and have reacted in ffi!lllY ways to fhertl for centuri~s, the 'tnew shocking -state'' can be traced from tli e Rod n,ey Affacir in Jamaica, through the Anguilla ctisis, the Sir George Wiltiams University Racism Computer, and the Februa.ry (19-71) Revolution in .Trinidad. These incidents created a chain reaction throughout the Caribbean which manifested itself in Marches, . demonstrations, limited politicisa_tion of the masses, and perhaps m.ost · important of aU, the expansion and formation of Radical Black groups. The. establishment replied with States of Emergencies:, curfews, the revival·of old laws to '\keep people - movicng (St. Vincent),\ detentions and machine guns. This reply i-ntensified the hatTed for whites ~n well as Blacks (also called whites) within the Caribbean ~ociety. The Shocking stage is the most potentially violent and dangerous stage of Black Consciousness, and unless the energies of the peopie are channeled into creative nd constructive activity chaos can reign. Eric Williams in Trinidad has succe.eded to some extent with the polliatives called the Best Village Competition, and\' Pan Festivals. ' The Black Cocoon State, is characterised by an immersion in Blackness. Everything Black is now realized to be beautiful. Our women stop frying their hair and go natural, the dashiki takes over ,the Jacket, and the boots give- way to the sanda·ls. On the artistic .side we take pride in our music, songs and stories; our dances, poets, painters, dramatists an.a novelists hecome our focus of reference. Our world becomes a Black wodd and everything white is spurned. Color· becomes the overriding factor in this stage as wen as in the first stage. Some Blac!<s claim to be-. Blacker tban other Blacks. One does not necessarily have to pa~s throUgh the Shocking Stage m order t·o get to the Black cocoon stage. One cannot -claim that people in the rural areas who have been wearing headties, t>!a~ting .their hair, and making the1r own sanda,ls ba'Ve just entered the Black Cocoon Stage. They have been doing these things for donkey years. Most of them have not heard about Rodney or Grange or Rosie Douglas. Their relative isolation..trom the impact of white society has provided thetn with a protective covering from white cultural domination. Their movement into the third ~tage of Black Consciousness however, is limited or restricted.' The Liberated Ideological Stage, is the highest stage of Black consciousness. The hatred and resentment for Whites disappears overtly and, perhaps, covertly. Color al1hough important, is not the overritling factor. It is the System which now comes under attack. And. the System operating in the faribbean, eXcept Cuba, is the Capitalist ·System. The first attack on the System (phase one of stage three) is a wholesale, lock stock a'nd barrel Matxist ideology .. In their attempt to break out of the Capitalist jail, iq order to change the view which men have of themselves in relation to ot'her men, hardly any a.ttempt is made to e~amine the model critically. This first attempt at breaking out is very significant because it implied a change m mental outlook. Fundamentaill, it is a movement from color to class consciousness. · · The Libera ted-Ideological stage, however, does not stay at one phase. The many Black organizations in the Car-ibbean have moved on. Perhaps ,they have foun~ out, (as Lloyd Bert claims) Marxism \postUlate a soCial mind too constricted by the established order to perceive the wide and constantly changing ·range of possible social objectives a:nd of feasible. social action.\ Marxist/ Leninist ideology is now . used, as a:. tool for analysis of Caribbean society; and the experiences of Red China and Cuba are helping to formulate a relevant brand of Socialism. This relevant brand of Socialism can he seen to be evolving among such groups as the Young Socialist Group (Y.S.P. St. ViJlCent) the Organization for Black Cultural Awareness (O.B.C.A. St. Vincent) and the N!ltional Joint Action Committee <N.J.A.C.J. It involves a rejection ()f the economic institutions, values which the Capitalist System breeds ~nd the type of mun it created .. There is also a tendency to look towards Julius Nyerere's Tangania as a model Socialist Sta,te. To some groups and individuals this is the model to adopt. This tendency in itself is perhaps a reflection of the Black Carribean man~s pride in race and root. Moreover, it may indicatea further development in the Liberated Ideological Stage and a movement away though not far, from white M~Hxist/Leninist ideology which takes both class and color into account. Those who move into the third stage are the ones who have been exposc;d to learning and education, Thi;; does. not mean that one has to go to University to be exposed because the University is packed with persons who have- not even been \shocked.\ This stage is more intellectuaJ than any other stage. But by reading books, journals and newspapers which are Third World and Socialist oriented any person can achieve the level of consciousness. It is also possible to convert or move people who are not exposed into this stage by rapping with them. The rural people can_be converted or moved in this manner. There will be. ,a meeting for those interested in joining eit)ier tfle Information Center Committee' <ir the Cultural lmpr<JVe'ments Committee. h)formation tenter Committee members will be expecte~ to help keep the center functioning throughout the year. Their main Dea,n and A.O.C. Continu~d from page A the Drug Committee, and in charge of .the development of the Student Center. Because of the nature of his job, he is also involved with college placement, admissions, financial aid, and psychiatric counseling. Besides his responsibilities on campus, Dean Moore is also involved with the Human Services Planning Counstil of Schenectady and the Carver Community Center. A . 0 . C'. o r A c ad e m i c Opportunity Consortium is a program which selects these students who because of academic diffi.culties and financial disadvantages would have been' otherwise denied access to higher education. The program began in 1969 and is open to New York S-tate residents only. The Consortium includes Union along with the other area colleges: Siena, R.P.L, Skidmore, and Russell Sage. A.O.t'. is co- and five will' be graduating this year. A~ Coordinator of minority Affaus, Dean Moore serves as an advisor to minority students. He had this to say on the subject, \Because of the magnitude of the conerns and needs of Black students, I dori't think that it would be safe for me to assume an attitude of 'being a \jack-of-all- trades.' To consider myself such is dangerous, nonsensical, and almost criminal. I cannot be everything for all people at all times.\ He said that Union should he mote adequately staffed. There is a need for two or three additional people to work with A.O.C. Two or three more Blacks ought to be in positions of Assistant Deans or Deans for that rilalter because the problems which affect Black students are so immeasurable. There should also be ~ person to develop e.xtra- curncular activites which would in teres! minorities. Dean Moore's goals are: I) to make himself available to any student who might need his assistance. This plan has no structure; it only has purpose. 2) to work as closely as he can with the Bl~ck Alliance in promoting an envt_ronment which is not only conductve to our academic success but also to our personal well-being. 3) to attract as many Black spokesmen from the community at large who have involvements in academic as well as non-academic areas which !-:Iate to the Black Experience. I hese spokesmen will help prepare Black students to enter the outside world. About Ethiopia I nave attempted, within a Caribbean framework, to explain the phenomenon of .Black Consciousness as an cmgoing process which moves in stages. These . stages are not rigid, especially the Shocking and Black Cocoon stages; and one does not necessarily have to pass through all the. preliminary _stages before the Liberated-Ideological Stage is reached. ·Sponsored by the participating schools and the state education department. For the convenience of the students, A.O.C. concentrates in the six county capita! . a rea for recruiting students but they also recruit from, other cities in New York. The A.O.C. program and the state of New York provide the financial assistance. necessary for the students to continue their cd ucation. A.O.C. also provides supportive services for its students which include: tutoring, counseling, academic advising, and actual established classes for remedial aid which are all at the college level. These classes bridge the gap between high school and what is expected of the student in college. A.O.C. takes over where Upward Bound leaves off. Upward Bound prepares high school students for college demandswhereas A.O.C tries to ensure . success In college and make the adjustment as easy as possible for the student. Their hooks are paid for by the state. They have five years to graduate and are able to take courses in the summer and receive partial lil'lancial assistance. The A.O.C. program at Union has a good record of success. There are now 27 students in the program. Four students graduated last year from the first of A.O.C. students THE BLACK STUDENTS' ALLIANCE presents On March 8- \A Performing Arts Festival\ Ethiopia is the tenth largest ~:ountry in Afr.ica (more. than twice the size of France} and is bor~ered by the Red Sea to the E11st - the Nile lands to the West The capital of Ethiopia is 1\ddis-Aba,ba. The major portion of the country consists of !1 high plateau which is responsible for Ethiopia's climate, unique in Africa, and is often compared to the best clima~e anywhete in the world: months of guaranteed sunshine, yet, thanks to the,., altitude, n~freshingly mild - with upland temperatures seldom rising above 77 degrees F (25 () not falling. below· 45 degrees F (7 C). Lying neat the equator, Ethiopia·~ seasons are reversed: her spring commences in September, and Summer runs ft:om 'Jan.uary to the middle of March. The rainy seasons are well defined. The rains occur between S~:ptqnber and midwMarch. Having over 70 languages and ahout 200 dialects, amharic is the dficial· lartguage of Ethiopia, However, you will find that English, French and Italian are spoken quite frequently. For all their exotic d.iversity, the peoples of Ethiop.ia are united in their singular beauty and grace, and ,in their infectious sense of frien~Hiness and gaiety. In the city and m the village, you will stop at the glimpse of a face that might have modelled for an Old Master ·an~ be greeted with flashing •·-=~~===atr=~==tf==:!l==l!lfi===tl sm1les that come from the heart. 11 ·~ Ethiopia is an empire with a t'ecorded history of over 30 centuries (unique in Africa) with a vast heritage of monuments and works of art including an abm'ldance of wild life. An empire composed of peoples with the . . . . ~·· · PER.SO-NNEL most diyerse ~thnological ~. backgrounds. An empire in which these world religions · -- ·Christianity, Judaism, and Islam 1r are at home. · ~ Yet, for centuries, Ethiopia remained the Hidden Emp.ire: secluded from the world by 11atu ral barriers, penetrated only hy the ihttepid few, Today, the barriers have come clown - the Hidden Empire ready to reveal :itself. Saba Araya, Marilyn Becton, Sadama Horns, Stephen B. Lewis, Roger A. McDonald~ Gloria V. Jones, Sonia Peats on; Thomas Watts, Editor 1301 Len(Jx Rd. Schenectady, NV 12308 COMMtrN,ITY PERSONNEL: Kris Upshur, 37'7-0173 James Houston, 372-2585 The deadline for the next issue is Sun., Feb. 17, 1974. ·- -- ' t-yw.r ~ The production will include A f r i c.a n d a n c e , p o e t r y presentation, modern dance a skit, live music and a Martial Arts demonstration done by the members of the B.S.A. The performa nee wi II commence at 8 pm in Memorial Chapel. Charles Parker, who got 10 years .for allegeaty burning . down a barn.

PageD --·-\ '·. PERSPECTIVE, Thurs.day •. February_ 7, 1974 \ Symbol of the North Carolina Political - Political Prisoners Committee. Old Weapon: This cartoon appeared in a Philadelphia community newspaper to go along with an article written by a 12-year-o/d boy who has to . -·. ~ , .... . ... . .\ '... . .-:.. . .. . ......... ,. .: ., • .... ~ \'-~ ·~ .... •• _:.1\' ~\\· •tr~··· .. \~ -~~·.~ ·, 'l' New Problem contend with the latest weapon in the arsenals of Philadelphia's ;: . . ~ . . . · ./Jla~fr:::gangs. · · .. ~: •• · •. • • .Ill>. I) «i' ,J t

. CONCORDIENSfS, . Thursday, February 7. 1974 Page9 - All students interested in being considered far the position of Resident Advisor in 1974-75 shotdd fill out an application form in the Dean of Students Office, by Pehru!lry 15. - * \' \' * Seniors: Please submit a senior portrait to the Union Book by Feb. 15, if you have not had one ta.ken by Schaffer Studios. Please submit any quotable quotes for the senior section as spon .as possible. Campus Community: Monday nites a·t 7:30 in Room 304 Camagie, the Union Book meets, and needs your help! Freshmen: Buy the 1974 Union BQok at the Student Activities Office. * ~ * * For Sale: 1964 R!tmbler Station Wagon,. 6 cyl., phone 374-2031. * * * • The Brothers of Chi Psi are holding their annual \Happening\ on Feb. 16. This year's party will begin immediately following the bas.ketbaJl game against the Coast Guard. There will be a band, casmo, and 20 kegs of beer. Tickets can be purchased from any of the brothers, and donations are $1.25. Last year, a total ·of $H47 was raised and hope to do even better this year. The proceeds are donated to . the New York District Chapter of the National Hemophilia Foundation. ., * * * AU those interested in helping to. run Pwf. Walbek's INS simulation during the weekend .of March 9~l0; please contact Chuck Rothman at 346-'921 L * \' * * The traditional Tuesday meetings of the Student~Faculty Bridge Club have been f.orsaken for Wednesday in order to allow avid skiers and bridge players a chance to indulge in both pasttimes. The next meeting will be held on Wednesday, Feb. ·13, at 7:45 p.m. in the Hale Hot~se Upper Lounge. \' * * * State University College at Oneonta, in cooperation with Hebrew University, Haifa University, and Bar-Ilan University in Israel, is offering its Sth summer academic program in Israel in July and August, 1974. The program is for students who desire an intensive study of Israel's economic, social, political, religious, educational, and scientific institutions; an opportunity for reseaFch on a particular aspect of the country; and a humanizing broadening contact with old-new Israel. For more info write: Prof. Alexander, ~tate University College, Oneonta, N.Y., 13820. Early application IS recommended. - \' * * * The Women's Caucus Meeting on Feb. 11 will be held for the purpose of electing members to the Executive Board. To be discussed: Women's Week, the Caucus's new offices in the Student Center, and the Formation of Committees to deal with topics of concern raised by members of the-group. \' * * * ID cards are in for those people whose pictures were taken at registration in Jant~ary. Please pick them up at the Office of the Dean of Students, Old Gym Hall. \' * * • The Israeli national basketball team will be. coming to the capital district for one night, Feb. 21 when they meet the Siena Varsity team, New York's top ranked basketball squad. The game will be held at the W:ashington Ave. armory in Albany at 7:30 p.m. For tickets and information, including bus transportation, contact the Schenectady Jewish Community Center, 2565 Balltown Rd., at 377- 8803. * * * * Concordy's reputation has apparently spread far and wide, for a blither has been received from a hopeful at Tufts U: Nice Jewish Girl looking for Nice Jewish Boy. Must be Handsome, Rich, Intelligent,. Able to Tame Domineering Woman. Call (not collect) 1- 617-628-4143 ... * * * * Attention PRE-LAW ,FRESHMEN: The Dean of Albany Law School has agreed to consider a limited number of currently enrolled Union freshmen for a combined 6 year B.A.-J.D. program in Law and Public Policy. Anyone interested in applying should see Prof. Board (SS) or Mr. Shupe (Old Gym). * * * * People· who did not go on the West Mtn. ski trjp the first Tuesday. Feb. 5, will still have to pay for the entire 5 week package,· even though they did' not ski the first time. For any questions, contact Ted Blandy in the Hale House cafeteria between 12-2 p.m. any day except Friday. * * * * The Mayor's New York City Urban Fellowship is now accepting applications for the 1974-75 academic year. Through the program, students work with a City agency four days a week and participate in a seminar on the fifth· day. A stipend of $4,000 and transportation to and from New York City are provided. Seniors and graduate students may apply by contacting Dr. Lenore Loft, Director, New York City Urban Fellowship, 250 Broadway, New York, N.Y., 10007. - * * * * I shall go· on to Schenectady with my prize. Slowly, I shall wind lny way along the veins and arteries of this great nation, before it suffers the predicted coronary ... Elections for Concordy Editor to serve winter and spring terms will be held, Thursday nite, Feb. 14th, from· 7:30-10:00 p.m. in the Concordy Office. All Concordy Staff are eligible to vote. As of copy deadline the candidates are Dan Valenti Phyllis Edelman, and Judy Dein and Bill Talis {co-editors). ' Those eligible to vote are: Pliyllis Edelman, Pete Sobol, Judy Dein, Bill Talis; Bart Mercer, Phil Alcabes Alan Gnessin, Steve Kelly, Gene Rosenblum, Dave Strom,' Linda Mackey. Elaine . Dintpelfeld, Bob Mondshein, Chris O'<;onnor, .Dan Mausuer, Jack Pitney, Nina Halpern, Scott Retter.. Ahson Sloat , Hank Bernstein, Brian Tucker,. Meredtth August, Lauren Gordon, Lauren Weilberg, Cindy Sheppard, Bill Erichson, Leslie Steinecker, Cliff Langweiler, Dave Hartman,. Mark Schnitkin, Fred Weinstein, Marcia Podgorsky, Cathy Theil, Lee Russell, Chuck Rothman· Jeannie Cassin, et.. al. . ' ~· Inter-Coli Sports Cut by ME.REDITH AUGUST The proposed 1974{ 75 operating budget of Union CoiJege Ius been formulated, and in all effort to eliminate a substa11tial deficit numerous cuts have Deen made which will affect many aspects. of student life. Among the most critical is the ten-pe!\cent trim in the athletic department budget which -will i nevi tabl y necessitate. t~e diminuti()n of current inter-ct>lle- giate programs. Not only does the present budget impose this moneta~)\ cutback. but the Board ·of Trust~es has made reconunen- datio ns to the Athl~tic Department as to how the reduc~d funds are to be spent. In an effort to make ;:tthletic progrf!ms at Union more brt>ad- based and responsive to the needs 'Of the greatest numoer of _students, the Trustees feel that more m()ney should be allocated 'IO the i ntramurai and physica.l education end of the Athletic Departm-ent and, consequent!~ less will be available for in.ter- .coUegiate sports. As to where the necessary- cuts will be made, Coacn Bruce Allison. Director of Athletics.. has said. that no definitive plans have yet been form alated. In order to meet with this deficit, llowever, three possible courses may be taken. They are as follows: 1) watering down presmt programs including the number of contest:s and contestants, 2) eliminating certain progmllis totally, and, 3). reducing staff in the Athletic Departtnent. In rno11etary terms, the athletic department is being asked to work with a total sum which falls eleve!l thousand dollars short t>f this year\'s budget - and this does not take into account the 7 Yz% guidelines for salary increases af staff members (professionals, secretaries,~ and ground crew) as weU as the new monetary derna11ds of coeducation. Thus, the At!.leth; Department finds itself rather hard-hit. Coach Allist>n believes that the new trend toward expanding tlte physical education prograrn is a gocd oile -both the demancls of the Trustees and the needs of llle stude11ts must and will be me~. In 1 ne r~Cmor that the statue of Chester Arthur walks the Cllmpus in· the dead of night has been proved at last. this piCture was discovered in the cam~rr:r of one of o ur photot:raphers, who was found mysteriously stomped to death in Jackson's Gardens last night. tevrs Dave'i Mem Sllc.p\' · 453 State St. . (d(WIId~WD~) Due to budget cut they may soon be diving into an empty pool. an .effort to keep abreast of just what these demands are, an Intramural Board will be created as an adjunct to the Athletic staff and will work with student representatives in formulating programs throughout the year. Provost Enteman, when asked about nex(year's budget and the effect it will have upon athletics at Union, expressed the hope that a ''solid, setious and sophisticated program of physical education and intramural sports will develop.\ With the renovation of the Fieldhouse, the College now has the facilities to service a \broad· base of students\ and has the responsibility \to make them feel welcome in these facilities.\ This includes those who have never participated in varsity sports and those who have felt alienated from the gym and Fieldhouse in the past. Because intramural programs require much smaller sums .of money than intercollegiate competition (this year, _ $78,000 was allocated to intramural programs and $209,000 to intercollegiate sports) the broadening of these programs can be instituted well within the 74/75 budgetary limitations. ,New Post Roger d. Penland, an executive search consultant for the past four years, has been named associate director of development at Union College. Penland, 33. has been affiliated with International Personnel Consultants Inc. of Hanover, N.H., as a staff consultant since 1969. A Durham, N.C., native, he is a ~raduate of the University of North Carolina and earned a master's degree from the University of Connecticut where he was a Jos.;:ph P. Kennedy Foundation fellow in special education. A former high school basketball coach, Penland also served as an assistant basketball coach at Dartmouth College before joining the recruiting firm. photo by Dave Strom Have A Heart Unwn College Associate Professor of Mechanical Engineering J. Richard Shanebrook has received a $26,000 grant from the Engineering Foundation for continued research on artificial heart valves. The grant is being used by Prof. Shanel>rook to establish the engineering design phase of an ongoing investigation into artificial aortic heart valves. Using a heart valve testing facility built by Union students Michael F. Clune of Schenectady and Joseph E. Pitoniak of Schenectady, designs will be tested that were derived from a rna themat ica I procedure developed by Prof. Shanebrook. According to the Union professor, current artificial heart designs are flawed because they tend to generate unnatural blood turbulence which can create pressure and other side effects on already weakened hearts. Prof. Shanebrook's research involves streamlining the artificial heart valve to ease the pressure on the organ through what he calls a \hydro-dynamic\ approach that would minimize the turbulence, hence the resistance to the blood flowing through the valve. At present, artificial heart valves are being implanted at a rate of about 30,000 a year, and approximately 100,000 of these operations have been performed. In addition, it is estimated that as many as I. 7 million Americans are afflicted with rheumatic heart disease, the most common cause of heart valve failure. The Engineering Foundation, which is underwriting the project, is based in New York City and was organized in 1914 for the \furtherance of research in science and engineering.\

Page 10 CONCORD,JENSIS, Thursday, February?, 1974 CANDIDATES' FORUM The question I've been most asked since announcing my candidacy for the Steering Committee is \What is the Steering Committee?\. This question immediately indicates that it is not what it should be. The first stated function of the Steering Committee is to \represent the various and diverse student views which may be present en campus, to publicize them, and allow for free discourse~\ If the Committee were fulfilling its responsibilities, publicizing its required open meetings, and . encouraging student participation, the student body would know what the Steering Committee is. Just a little enthusiasm, occassional notes to WR UC and Concordy, and maybe a poster here and there could easily accomplish ~these ends. The Steering Committee's Culture editor Sobol checks the time before making the hour~ check on the candidates' phone taps. When Sobol was asked the ·reason for the taps, he is reported to have said, \Just want to be sure of the facts this time.\ photo by Vi second function is to \authorize maintain, and stimulate various activities on campus., and serve as an \overseer of .committees.\ Last year I applied for appointment to the Social Committee. After myself and a few other people spent about five or ten minutes * * * * * chatting with members of the Once upon a time, in a far Committee on Committees (a away land called Schenectady, Steering Committee offshoot) it there was a liberal arts kingdom was decided that I was not by the name of Union College. qualified to serve. How selections But despite the fact that this were finally made I honestly do kingdom was very pretty, and all not know, but there must be a the neighborhood dragons had more equitable way of getting to been slain, this kingdom had a know perspective appointees, so problem. It seems that the king t h a t m ore r e 8 Po n s i b I e and his court, better known as the appointments can be made. (It Steering Committee, had created has been suggested that personal a certain paradoxical situation bias may have been involved, but that had all but eliminated most that is not for me to say.) of its ruling power. The paradox In the end I was appointed to was that even though the Steering the Social Committee Tech. Committee-derived almost all its Crew, which I'm told is a power from the support of its committee in itself. If so, we hold subjects in the kingdom, it never the distinction of being the only (I bothered to inform any of its hope!) committee that has no idea subjects as to what it was trying what it is supposed to be doing to do. The result of this was that whatsoever. As a matter of fact not one meeting has been called the subjects did not support the during my tenure. The blame can Steering Committee, and its only be placed in the lap of the power was consequently limited. Steering Committee. After all, as This situation remained unchanged year after year. Every overseers they should at least see spring a jousting tournament was that a committee is functioning. It is hard for an outsider to held, better known as an election, know exactly why the Steering where the best knights in the Committee has not been kingdom would compete for the performing its duties, much less right to be on the Steering doing anything about it. This Committee and try to eliminate frustrates me because it means the kingdom's problem. But alas, that the Union College none of these great knights could succeed in setting up Community is not being offered communication between the the opportunity to participate in the social, cultural, and artistic Steering Committee and its activities it is entitled to. It is for subjects. this reason that I seek election, so But then, in a special jousting tournament held on Feburary 12, that I may be given a fair chance a miraculous thing occurred. to do something about it. Although the kingdom's most Carl Schwartz famous and skilled knights Steering Committee Candidate competed, none of them won. __ ...,...,. _______ '\'!\'\... Instead, Lee Rimsky, a relatively MCAT·DAT~GR . LSAT- ATGS~B } . NAT'L. BDS. • Pg~paration tor .tests required. for admis&ion to graduate and prof81J' sional Schools . • Six and tWefw 1811Sion oourses • Small groups . • Voluminous materit:ll forflome S1Ucfv prepared by experts in each fiald * Lesson schedule can be tailored 10 meet indiVidual i'l~. ·· • Opporturalty for review of ~ lessons via tape at the ce~ter unknown common subject, · vanquished all his opponents and won the privilege of serving on the Steering Committee. Through lee Rimsky's unrelenting efforts. the Steering Committee's communication problem was solved and all the kingdom's subjects lived happily ever after. Moral: Sophomores, bef0re I did a little research on our Steering Committee, I knew as little about it as you. It doesn't take any political sense to realize that's not the way things should be. I'm not going to make any concrete promises here. I will only v o w to work for what you tell me you want. If the least I do is to make sure Sophomores know what's happening in the Steering Committee, I think it will be a very valuable contribution. Lee Rimsky · Steering Committee Candidate * * * * * In a time of increasingly complex .problems requiring long range solutions, Union College cannot afford to merely look into the near future when making administrative decisions. Such decisions involve questions which we must try to assess before committing ourselves and our limited resources. l believe that the long-range implications of college management are of the utmost importance. The Steering Committee is an organ of student opinion on campus. It oversees student activities, and proposes reforms to the faculty and administration concerning the structure of the College. As a vital instrument in the student's college life, the Steering Committee must not be ignored any longer. Very few members of the class of •76 realize that one of their representatives is not in school this term, thus precipitating this special election. It is a sad state of affairs when so few are concerned with their own welfare. Representatives to government are responsible for this Welfare. It is impossible to promise results, except to guarantee fairness to the constituency. Since I hope to step into Koelh Haver's shoes, I realize that the least he could have done was to have them cleaned. Andy Pearce Steering Committee Candidate * * * * * wish to be elected io the Steering Committee as the representative of the Sophomore Class because I want to take an active role in making necessary and helpful improvements for our school. People campaigning for student government invariably promise things that cannot be accomplished; I intend to suggest changes that can be easily accomplished. First, the Film Haps program, when compared to . other schools, clearly needs improvement, with better films and lower prices. I would also propose the formation of a 24- hour Information Center, offering students easily accessible news regarding all facets of student life on campus (eg., athletic scores, social events, lectures, concerts, meetings, etc.). These are but two of several ideas that should be examined by our Steering Committee and, if elected, I 'Will push for their passage. Hank Bernstein Steering Committee Candidate Levrs Dave's Mens Shop .&!JState St. ·(dawntOWil Sdtenectady) Summw Sessions Special Compact Courses Weekends- lntersessions. Maurice Grauhart & Sons STANLEY ~· KAPLAN I!DUCATIONAL CI!NTI!Ns.: 11Q1i Eaot 1 ... SCnJot llrooldy!t, N. V (2121 236--5300 u .. : {516) 538--4555 . THIS IS HERSHEL. MAURICE. AND WALTER GR'I\UBART AT GRAUBART & SONS. SCHENECTADYS OLDEST FAMILY JEWELERS. WE VERY SELDOM ADVERTISE OUR REPAIR -DEPARTMENT BECAUSE WE ARE KEPT BUSY MOST OF THE TIME. WE~D LIKE TO MENTION THAT WE OFFER A COMPLETE REPAIR SERVICE ON WATCHES AND JEWELRY ITEMS. OUR WATCH REPAIRS ARE DONE BY EFFICIENT. HIGHLY SKILLED WATCHMAKERS. AND OUR WOR!{ IS GUARANTEED TO BE SATISFACTORY. OUR REPAIR SHOP WITH O.UR OWN JEWELERS AND DIAMOND SE;TTERS CAN PERFORM MOST JEWELRY REPAIRS. REMEMBER GRAUBART & SONS FOR RELIABLE SERVICE. 166 JAY ST. SCHENECTADY 11Ndi1a. t------------------------\'1 DAV!I: EVENt~ WEEKENDS B-. • fhllo. • Wa!1>1ni1ot1 • Detnllt • LooA ...... ' Mlotill :JlU T~t ....... SclloolMrla IM~.U.Ittpa~ . 'h ~ ... ,, ,.. •• I • .r..· •· -.•I \.\:1 • Opi.nion: Steering Trouble by ~RED WEINSTEIN The upcoming Steering Committee election makes t•his as appropriate a time as any to reflect upon our student government • and our attitudes towards it. · One need not conduct an intensive survey to realize that.for the most part Union students have exhibited tremendous ap'athy in regard to their government. Such a conclusion is based on. the relatively low .turnouts for studc;mt elections, Steering Committee meetings, and other government \functions. It seems clear that Union students see little value in partaking in the activities of their government. However, the question that needs to be asked is: Are we correct in perceiving that little benefit can he derived from active support of_ student goyernment? An examination of our present .system of government provides substantial .support for an affirmative answ¢r. The Constitution for Student Gavernment (which incidentally is not read·ily available to students since the Stude:nt Activities .office has only one copy - with the last page missing) calls. for the Steering Committee to conduct open hearings every three weeks to \serve both to inform the student body of issues existing and emerging and to inform the Steering Committee of sentiment on certain issues:\ This provision. has been consistently violated J,y the present administration, for ·ilot ~ne heating has been held since their election. The violation of this provision m~kes it difficult for students to have their views adequately represented. One possible explanation for this violation is that the Constitution has been misinterpreted since it uses the words \hearing\ and \meeting interchangeably. However, such a misinterpretation would be inexcusable because the Constitution was so recently written (Sept., 1972) that clarification of any ambiguities can be gained from any of the authors still attending Union (this is where this writer received information). - Another contribution to the lack of responsiveness of student government to student needs is the fact that while students are allowed to attend meetings .of the Steering Committee, \they may not vote or be reeognized to speak.\ One wonders how student sentiment will ever be ascertained if their voices are stilled during the decisien-making process. How many students even have the time to track down their representatives. and voice their opinions on some matter, prior meetings? Those that do have no guarantee that the decisions of the Steering Committee will reflect their point of view. The problem is twofold since the Steering Committee is dependent on. the All-College Senate's approval of most of its decisions and without the visible support of students, Senate approval of Steering Committee decisions becomes difficult. Thus., it is not surprising that student government has not been responsive to student needs. The lack of real communications between students and representatives results in proposals that: (1) do not necessarily reflect the needs of the student body and (2) have difficulty achieving Senate approval. Indeed, one former member of the Steering Committee went so far as to say the Committee was only \a nominal structure.\ Perhaps strong student support would reverse this situation, since, as the former member stated, \in a school of this size 50 students behind one issue are a movement.\ This being the case, it would seem that both students and representatives should be concerned with creating conditions under which the linkage between student government and student body would be a strong one. There are several ways of accomplishing this: holding the open hearings· that the Constitution provides for; holding informal dormitory meetings with student representatives; allowing students to speak at Steering Committee meetings; making the Constitution for Student Government available to all students; electing representatives who will be responsive to students' needs through direct contact with their constituents. The last is a good reason for the careful scrutiny of candidates running in the present election. Their statements appear in this issue. \Whew is that a Union premed?\ photo by Vi The Red Fox- Inn 123 JAY ST. 'A QUIET BAR ... A PLACE TO TALK' Bud by the Pitcher Ace Stationery V ALENTJNE'S DAY CARDS & GIFTS 177 JAY ST. 372-2008 Mon.-Sat. 9:30-5:30 ., ~; ,... .... , ............. ~r.,1

Page 10 CONCORDIENSIS, Thursday, February 7, 1974 CANDIDATES' FORUM Opinion: Steering Trouble The question I've been most asked since annotmdng my candidacy f.or the Steering Committee is \What is the Steering Committee?\. This question immediately indicates that it is not what it should be. The first stated fu11ction of the Steering Committee is to \represent the variotts and diverse student views which may be present on campus. to publicize then1, and allow for free discourse.\ If the Committee were fulfiHing its responsibilities, publicizing its required open meetings, and eNcouraging student participatioH, the student body would know what the Steering Committee is. Just a little enthusiasm, occassional notes to WRUC and Concordy, and maybe a poster here and there could easily accompl;ish •these ends. fhe Steering Committee's second function is to \authorize maintain, and stimulate vario1:1s activities on campus\ and serve as an .. overseer of committees.\ Last year I applied for appointment to the Social Committee. After myself and a few other people spent a@out five or ten minutes chatting with members of the Committee on Committees (a Steering Committee offshoot) it was decided that I was not 4 ua lified to serve. How selections were finally made I honestly do not know, but there must be a more equitable way of getting to know perspective appointees, so that more responsible appointments can be made. (It has been suggested that personal hias may have been involved, but that is not for me to say.) In the end I was appointed to the Social Committee Tech. Crew, which I'm told is a committee in itself. If so, we hold the distinction of being the only (I hope!) committee that has no idea what it is supposed to be doing whatsoever. As a matter of fact not one meeting has been called during my tenure. The blame can only be placed in the lap of the Steering Committee. After all, as overseers they should at least see that a committee is functioning. It is hard for an outsider to know exactly why the Steering Committee has not been performing its duties, much less doing anything about it. This frustrates me because it means that the Union College Community is not being offered the apport unity to participate in the social, cultural, and artistic activities it is entitled to. It is for this reason that I seek election, so that I may be given a fair chance to do something about it. Carl Schwartz Steering Committee Candidate MCAT-DAT~GR LSAT · ATGS:B _. NAT'L. BDS. • P~aparation tor tea1S required for admission to graduate and prof85-' sional schools • Six and twelve session courses \ Small groups \ Voluminous material for 'home study prepared by exper1s in each field \ Lesson schedule can be tailored 10 maet individual needs. 1 • Oppcrtunity for ;wiew of past lessons via 111pe at the center u__ . ~ ., Summer Sessions t • ' S~l Compact Courses .1 ~ends - lntersessions 1 . $Ttll~!l..~V H. KAPLAN ;lf!DU©:~TK>NAL CENTf!!rl'fl~.: 1::::=-=·u ~- {516) 538-4555 .; . asNCt: 18. J OAV9. E VEtoitNG!f. WEEKENDS fl D..-.' Phlb • w........\ 0111'011 ° I.GIA\\'*\ Mlomi l,.rr.-.7h~==!::..,~7,!!'-Do- u Cul~ure editor Sobol checks tile time before making the hr:Jurly check on the c~ndirlates' phone taps. When Sovd was asked the reason ror Lhe taps, he is reported to have said, \Just want to be stLre of the facts this time.\ photo by Vi * * * * * ()n(;e upon a time, in a far away land called Schenectady, there was a J,iberal arts kingdom by the narne of Union College. But <lespite the fact that this kingdom was very pretty, and all the neighborhood dragons had been slain, this kingdom had a problem. It seems that the king and !-tis court. better known as the Steering Committee. had created a certain paradoxical situation that flad all btJt eliminated most ol its ruling power. The paradox was that even though the Steering (o mrnittee derived almost all its poVIer from the support of its ~ubjects in the kingdom, it never bothered to inform any of its ~ubjects as to what it was trying to <lo_ The result of this was that the subjects did not support the Steering Committee. and its po\Ner was consequently limited. This situation remained unchanged year after year. Every spring a jousting tournament was held, btter known as an election, Vlhere the best knights in the kin,gdom would compete for the right to be on the Steering Cormnittee and try to eliminate the kingdom's problem. But alas, none of these great knights could succeed in setting up communication between the Steering Committee and its subjects. But then, in a special jousting tourna:ment held on Feburary 12, a mi :raculo us thing occurred. Although the kingdom's most famous and skilled knights competed. none of them won. Instead Lee R imsky, a relatively unknc:.wn common subject. van(.]Uished all his opponents and won tlle privilege of serving on the Steering Committee. Through Lee Rimsky's unrelenting efforts. the Steering Committee's c01nmunication problem was solved and all the kingdom's subjects lived happily ever after. ~oral: Sophomores. before I did a little research on our St~erir~g Committee. I knew as litile a b(:)ut it as you. It doesn't take any political sense to reali1e t hat~s r1~t the way things should be. I'm not going to make any concrete promises here. I wiH only vow to work for what you tell me you want. If the least I do is to make sure Sophomores know what's happening in the Steering Committee, I think i,t wiH be a very valuable contribution. Lee Rimsky Steering Committee Candidate * * * * * In a time of increasingly complex problems requiring long range solutio,Ns, Union CoUege cannot afford to merely look into the near futue when making administrative decisions. Such decisions involve questions which we n'll:lst try to assess before committiNg ourselves and our limited resources. I believe that the long-range implications of college management are of the utmost importance. The Steering Committee is an organ of student opmwn on campus. It oversees student activities, and proposes refmms to the faculty and administration concerning the structtJre of the College. As a vita·! instrument in the student's college life, the Steering Committee must not be ignored any longer. Very few members of the class of '76 realize that one of their representatives is not in school this term, thus precipitating this special election. It is a sad state of affairs when so few are concerned with their own welfare. Representatives to government are responsible for this welfare. It is impossible to promise results, except to guarantee fairness to the constituency. Since I hope to step into Koelh Haver's shoes, I realize that the least he could have done was to have them cleaned. Andy Pearce Steering Committee Candidate * * * * * wish to be elected to the Steering Committee as the representative of the Sophomore Class because I want to take an active role in making necessary and helpful improvements for our school. People campaigning for student government invariably promise things that cannot be accomplished; I intend to suggest changes that can be easily accomplished. First. the Film Haps program, when compared to other schools, clearly needs improvement, with better films and lower prices. I would also propose the formation of a 24~ hour Information Center, offering students easily accessible news regarding all facets of student life on campus (eg., athletic scores, social events, lectures, concerts, meetings, etc.). These are but two of several ideas that should be examined by our Steering Committee and, if elected. I will push for their passage. Hank Bernstein Steering Committee Candidate ·Lev:rs· ·. . .. Dave's Mens Shop -1!3 State St. (dawntOWA Schenectady) Maurice Grauhart & Sons THI~ IS HERSHEl. MAURICE. AND WA! TfR GR:4.1JRART -\1 (iRAl1BART & SONS. SCifF!'lFCTADYS OLDFST FAMILY HIV\Et.FRS. WF VfRV SELDOM ADVERTISE OUR REPAIR DH'ARIMFNT RFCAIISF WF ARf KFPT RllSY MOST OF THE TIMF WE'lD I IKE-' TO VIENTION fHAT WF Of'FER A COMPLETE REPAIR SERVICE ON WATCHFS AND JEWEl RV ITFMS. OUR WATCH RFP'AtRS ARf OONF BY EFFICIF~f. HIGHLY SKI! LED by FRED WEINSTEIN The upcoming Steering Committee election makes this as appropriate a time as any to reflect upon our student government and our attitudes towards it. · One need not conduct an intensive survey to realize that f()r the most part Union students have exhibited tremendous apathy in regard to their government. Such a conclusion is based on the relatively low turnouts for student elections, Steering Committee meetings. and other government functions. It seems clear that Union students see little value in partaking in the activities of their government. However, the question that needs to be asked is: Are we correct in perceiving that little benefit can be derived f~om active support of student government? An examination of our present system of government provides substantial support for an affirmative answer. The Constitution for Student Government (which incidentally is not readily availa@le to students since the Student Activities oHice has only one copy - with the last page missing) calls for the Steering CommiHee ~o conduct open hearings every three weeks to \serve both to inform the student body of issues existing and emerging and to inform the Steering Committee of sentiment on certain issues.\ This provision has been consistently violated by the present administration. for not one hearing has been held since their election. The violation of this provision makes it difficult for students to have their views adequately represented. One possible explanation for this violation is that the Constitution has been misinterpreted since it Hses the words \hearing\ and \meeting.\ interchangeably. However, such a misinterpretation would be inexcusable because the Constitution was so recently written (Sept., 1972) that clarification of any ambiguities can be gained from any of the authors still attending Union (this is where this writer received information). Another contribution to the lack of responsiveness of student government to student needs is the fact that while students are allowed to attend meetings of the Steering Committee. \they rnay not vote or be recognized to speak.\ One wonders how student sentiment will ever be ascertained if their voices are stilled during the decision-making process. How many students even have the time to track down their representatives and voice their opinions ·On some matter. prior meetings? Those that do have no guarantee that the decisions of the Steering Committee will reflect their point of view. The problem is twofold since the Steering Committee is dependent on the All-College Senate's approval of most of its decisions and without the visible support of students, Senate approval of Steering Committee decisions becomes difficult. Thus, it is not surprising that student government has not been responsive to student needs. The lack of real communications between students and representatives results in proposals that: (I) do not necessarily reflect the needs of the student body and (2) h.ave difficulty achieving Senate approval. Indeed, one former member of the Steering Committee went so far as to say the Committee '-Vas only \a nominal structure.\ Perhaps strong student support would reverse this situation, since, as the former member stated. \in a school of this size 50 students behind one issue are a movement.\ This being the case, it would seem that both students and representatives should be concerned with creating conditions under which the linkage between student government and student body would be a strong one. There are several ways of accomplishing this: holding the open hearings· that the Constitution provides for; holding inforrnal dormitory meetings with student representatives; allowing students to speak at Steering Committee meetings; making the Constituti<m for Student Government available to all students; electing representatives who will be responsive to students' needs through direct contact with their constituents. The last is a good reason for the careful scrutiny of candidates running in the present election. Their statements appear in this issue. \Whew is that a Union premed?\ photo by Vi The Red Fox Inn 123 JAY ST. 'A QUIET BAR ... A PLACE TO TALK' Bud by the Pitcher Ace Stationery VALENTINE'S DAY CARDS & GIFTS I WATCHMAKERS. AND OIIR WORK IS (iUARATHEED TO BF ~~ <.;Ar !SFArTORV. OUR REPAIR SHOP WITH OUR OW'\/ JEWF!.ERS ~ 177 JAY ST. A~D OIA MONO SETTERS CAN PERFORM MOST JEWELRY < l J RFP AIRS REMEMBER GRAl'RARl & SONS FOR RELIARI.F ~· I SFR'VtCF -- l - ......... ... • ~ 372-2008 Mon.-Sat. 9:30-5:30 i66 JAY ST. SCHENECTADY ~- . - . [; b~=\'\\\\\\\'\\\\'==\\\·\\\\\';::~ ..... ,,\\\\\='\\'\'~~..--=~-· I ' .· .. ~ ' . . . . J I •I I I , I I t I . ' l , \' . \ ' ; '

J ( , CQNCORIJTENSIS, Thursday, February 7, 1974 Page 11 Track by ALISON SLOAT ••Garnet spikers victorious wi .. th 49 point margin OV<;!r Hamilton.\ A great score for a dual meet. However, Union. did one better. ActuaHy two better, after capturing a win ina quadrangular meet Versus RPI, Hamilton, and Hartwick by an outrageous 83-21- 34-1 score. The Union squad jelled and worked as a team. Races were smooth and strategy was well thought out. Steve \Jonesie\ Jones was a standout in the distance events capping the two~mile run in 10:02.4 and crossing the line even with Union Senior Crawford Cutts for a first place tie in the mile at 4:28.2. Hamilton's strongboy, Vito Stellato, was well back in third at 4:38.4. Calvin Anderson \Fo~bury Flops\; and wins. p.hoto credit Leslie Steinecker Co-<:aptain Mark Mindel ran a ·· superb 2:18 1000-yd. run, only 1.5 seconds off the track record Students Shortage STUDENT POLL ON ENERGY CRISIS In the true tradition of Concordy, a mock poll was held ouring the first week of classes. We did not find student opinion to be of any enduring value, and will present our views of student opinion concerning a comparative analysis. of the energy crisis of the United States with that of Union College: I. Lowering the speed limit on our nation's highways is no more a solution than lowering the grades on our report cards. 2. Refineries are not producing at full capacity; likewise with the social committee. With these major conclusions confronting us, you the student must find out who is on the social committee. We are in a lot of trouble .. Get your tushie over to the Rathskeller at II :00 weeknites. You might just run into the girl of your dreams, or more practically, someone who can give you the answers for the next exam. Don't be afraid to leave your room to visit other inmates. College students leave their rooms every day for purposes other than attending class. Every student finds himself or herself behind in their work at some point during the term. Get behind early, and avoid the last minute rush. TWo Turkeys tackle the track. photo credit Leslie Steinecker JjQ'SK•~tO•QII OUOO'On OW'iKS in hlll'•nr,hPl'.<i:. photo credit Leslie Steinecker ~ ... , .. , .... ,.,' '\'' ,, .................... ··u\tt\.E . ~ Tired of blowing lunch? Phi Delta ·Theta serves meals that s·· .... ~ -~ · stay down. Give us a call. 346- ~\~~\E. ·~ 9730. Tired of... ~hi Delta Theta? Give us a c~dl at Smith House. P1tzer1a . 783 ALBANY ST. TYPING at HOME ONE BEER FREE Reasonable Rates WITH EACH PIZZA WE DELIVER CALL AFTERS UNTIL MIDNIGHT 393-2233 Call 37 4-5600 MAURICE GRAUBART AND SONS ? 166 JAY ST., SCHENECTADY Takes established by Charlie Duggan last week. Cutts came off the mile run to pound t·he track r or second in 2:22.1. Dave Ricks,. the other co- captain for the '74 indoor season, easity captured the ;pole vault sailing over 12'9\. Ftosh Bruce Bonanno picked up a fourth at 10' for the Dutchmen. Ricks took occasional jaunts over to the long jump pit where he let !loose a 21' 21f' jump for fourth, behind first place John DeStefano's 21'6%\ and Roger McDonald's third place 2J' 4-'Ya.\ McDonald returned to triple jump-43' 7\ for the win and John De grabbed second, leaping 42' 3-\1.\ In the high jump freshmen Calvin Anderson and Dave Plumer replayed last week's performances, only at a slower speed. Both cleared 6'3\ Anderson winning on misses. Dave Ricks picked up yet another BULLETIN: Wednesday afternoon, Rtrs swim team defeated Union's swimmers by a score of 22-37. Details in next . ' Three team point as he cleared 5'8\ for fourth. In a rar.e display, muscleman Bill Mowery lost to long time adversary Lowell of RPL Mowery got off a 46' 5\12'' put, missing the winning mark by 1- \14.\ Junior AI Gilewicz and sophomore Jim Dupes took third and fourth places with 42'7W' and 39'1 !4.\ Union's two-mile relay team (Boyer, Kalina, McCabe, Mindel) was overcome by Hamilton's group of taunters. Anchorman Vito Stellato, receiving the baton well in first, drove home for the win in 7:59. Seeing no threat from Hartwick, Miner then coasted the rest of the race, crossing in 8:10.8. Earlier, senior Tim McCabe, last week's injuries obviously improved, ran hard to a win in the 600-yd. run, followed closely by teammate Ron Warner: respective times were I :14.8 and I :16.2. Improving with every showing, soph Milt Herring broke the 5.5 50-yd. dash record that he had set last week, as he fired through in 5.4 seconds. Alden Sherman and Chris Doulides claimed thir.d and fourth, each in 5.8. This Saturday, as defending champions, the Dutchmen thinclads travel to Rochester for the U of R Relays. Next home meet: Feb. 16. Baseball Batteryl Coach Art Lawrence has called a meeting for all pitchers and catchers who plan to go out for the Baseball team in the spring. The meeting will be in his office Monday, Feb. II at 1:00 PM. Also, any one interested i~· being a manager for the squad should get in touch with Coach Lawrence as soon as possible. \Clete\ Boyer hangs to corner versus Hamilton.

l I •l I .I .I ~ ·~ i I I ' •I I i I . ' l 0 'I ! I . \ • I -~~~'~ ' ,. - ( • ' . ~- CONCORD!ENSJS, Thursday, February 7, 1974 Page II Track by ALISON SLOAT \Garnet spikers victorious with 49 point margin over Hamihon.\ A great score for a dwal meet. However, Union did one better. Actually two better, after capturiHg a win in a quadrangular meet versus RPI, Hamilton, and Hartwick by an outrageol1s 83-21- 34-1 score. The Union squad jelled and worked as a team. Races were snweth and strategy was weH thought out. Steve '\Jonesie\ Jones was a sta·ndout in the distance events capping the two-mile run in 10:02.4 and crossing the line even with Union Senior Crawford Cutts for a first place tie in the mik at 4:28.2. Hamilton's strongboy, Vito Stellato, was well back in third at 4:38.4. Calvin Anderson \Fosbury Flops\; and wins. photo credit Leslie Steinecker Co-captain Mark Mindel ran a stlperb 2:18 1000-yd. run, only 1.5 seconds off the track record Students Shortage STUDENT POLL ON ENERGY CRISIS In the true tradition of Concordy, a mock poll was held during the first week of classes. We did not find student opinion to be of any enduring value, and will present our views of student opinion concerning a comparative analysis. of the energy crisis of the lJ nited States with that of Union College: I. Lowering the speed limit on our nation's highways is no more a solution than lowering the grades on our report cards. 2. Refineries are not producing at full capacity; likewise with the social committee. With these major conclusions confronting us, you the student must find out who is on the social committee. We are in a lot of trouble. Get your tushie over to the Rathskeller at II :00 weeknites. You might just run into the girl of your dreams. or more practically, someone who can give you the answers for the next exam. Don't be afraid to leave your room to visit other inmates. College students leave their rooms every day for purposes other than attending class. Every student finds himself or herself behind in their work at some point during the term. Get behind early, and avoid the last minute rush. Two Turkeys tackle the track. photo credit Leslie Steinecker nm'Jnr.m basks in bleachers. photo credit Leslie Steinecker ~fnffuf Jt f f '\ I I flffnfufnJ,.J-ffn \\.\11\-E \~ Tired of blowing lunch? Phi Delta Theta serves meals that stay down. Give us a can. 346- \NN\ES ~ 9730. Tired of ... Phi Delta Theta? ~ Pitzeria Give us a call at Smith House. 783 ALBANY ST. TYPING at HOME ONE BEER FREE Reasonable Rates WITH EACH PIZZA WE DELIVER CALL AFTER S UNTIL MIDNIGHT 393-2233 Call 374-5600 .· ~ : 0 ~ • . scan<)tnaVJan ImpoRtS . MAURICE GRAUBART AND SONS 166 JAY ST., SCHENECT AOY Takes established by Charlie Duggan last week. Cutts came off the mile run to pound the track for second in 2:22.1. Dave Ricks, the other co- captain for the '74 indoor season, easi,ty captured the pole vault sailing over 12'9\. Frosh Bruce Honanno picked up a fourth at 10' for the Dutchmen. Ricks took occasional jaunts over to the long jump pit where he let loose a 21' 2%\ jump for fotuth, behind first place John DeStefano's 21 '6W' and Roger McDonald's third place 2 I' 4-VR.\ Me Donald ret11rned to triple jump 43' 7\ for the win and John De grabbed second, leaping 42' 3-VR.\ In the high jump freshmen Calvin AndersoH and Dave Plumer replayed last week's performances, only at a slower speed. Both cleared 6'3\ Anderson winning on misses. Dave Ricks picked up yet another BULLETIN: Wednesday afternoon RFI's swim team defeated Union's swimmers by a of 22-37. Details in Three team point as he cleared 5'8\ for f 011 rth. In a rar.e display, muscle rna n Bill Mowery lost to long time udversary Lowell of RP I. Mowery got off a 46' 5Y2\ put, missing the winning mark hy 1- 114.\ Junior AI Gilewicz a'lld sophomore Jim Dupes took third und fourth places with 42'7i!z\ und 39'1\!,1.\ lJAion's two-mile relay team (Boyer, Kalina, McCabe, Mindel) was overcome by Hamilton's group of taunters. Anch0rrnan Vito Stellato, receiving the baton well in first, drove home for the win in 7:59. Seeing no threat from Hartwick, Miner then coasted the rest of the race, crossing in 8: I 0.8. Earlier, senior Tim McCabe, last week's injuries obviously improved, ran hard to a win in the 600-yd. nn, followed closely by teammate Ron Warner: respective times were 1:14.8 and I :16.2. Improving with every showing, soph Milt Herring broke the 5.5 50-yd. dash record that he had set last week, as he fired through in 5.4 seconds. Alden Sherman and Chris Doulides claimed third and fourth, each in 5.8. This Saturday, as defending champions, the Dutchmen thinclads travel to Rochester for the U of R Relays. Next home meet: Feb. 16. Baseball Batteryl Coach Art Lawrence has called a meeting for an pitchers and catchers who plan to go out for the Baseball team in the spring. The meeting will be in his office Monday, Feb. II at I :00 PM. Also, any one interested i~ being a manager for the squad should get in touch with Coach Lawrence as soon as possible. \Clete\ Boyer hangs to corner versus Hamilton.

Page 12 CONCORDIENSIS, Thursd~y, February 7, 1974 Hoop- Moves Up In Polls Union, currently ranked 4 in and !he domination of the boards the state, has continued on the by the much taller Yellow road to becoming a small college · Jackets, outr.ebouding us by -20~ powerhouse. Last week the Hamilton had the unpleasant Garnet again lacked the home task of taking on the Dutchmen court advantage, as. they have for- after this bitter loss and found much of the season. Yet, Coach themselves on the wrong end of a Scanlon's troops easily handled 70-48 tilt. \The kids played Hobart and. Hamilton, but were smart,\ remarked Coach Scanlon. stung by the Yellew Jackets of \This is the same team that beat Rochester in a closely contested us last year by 10.\ The Ga~:net ballgame Thistleaves Union.with a jumped out to a J0-2 lead early in 9-2 record after only two home the ballgame and ended the half contests and, with the news outscoring the opponent, 16-1. regarding Siena, the possibility of Tom \Beaner\ Combs was called standing at 10-1. upon to pic.k apart the home to the college community which has supported them so well. Their next 8 games are at home, including Hartwick last night, Kings' Point Friday night, and Trinity Saturday night. Coach Scanlon commented that the team works very hard and both the players and coaches appreciate the tremendous enthusiasm the fans have generat~d this season. The Gamet, this week on a Continentals' tight zone. Hitting Northern swing; made their first an incredible 5 for 5 from the stop at Hobart and proceeded to floor and 2 fOF 2 from the line, annihilate the home squad by a Tom \turned in his best game,\ 70-51 margin. Hobart, having lost according to Scanlon. John to Rochester by only 4 points, Denio again played sparkling was expected to give us .a tough defense and held high scoring contest and it appeared to be just Mark Badger to a mere 6 points. that as the Dutchmen were The star of the game, however, behind 6-4 early in the game. was Cllucky Abba. \He played an Rallying, Union's exceptional intelligent game and very, very defense rose to the occasion, held good defense,\ observed the the opposition scoreless for an Union mentor. Chucky split his unbelievable 12 minutes, and duties between guard and forward went to the dressing room with a without a single turnover, adding 32-15 halftime lead. In the second 14 points. When Carmody was in half it was never close as Coach foul trouble, Abba picked up the Scanlon emptied his bench with slack and proved to be the eight minutes left on the clock \stabilizing force.\ Scanlon and a 26 point lead. The entire praised~ \It's the best game he has· Union team broke into the played as a Union College scoring column with Charlie player:• Gugliotta and Steve Kelly leading Again, as in the Hobart g(lme, the attack with 14 and 12 points, the bench was emptied and Tubby respectively. \the enforcer\ Raymond was Tom Richardson takes a gulp. pl_loto. c.redit Dave Hardman Grapplers End Home Season Campaign The Union College Wrestling Team upped its record to 5-3, as they defeated arch-rival RPI, Hobart and Rochester. The only loss came to cross-town rivals Albany State. Captain Mark: DeCesare again had a tough one as he accepted a forfeit. Zullo, who wrestled his last home match here at Union College, along with Sophomores Scott Medl.a and Tom Everett, remained undefeated with a 7-0 record. Vnion - Hobart 40-9 Zullo's Last Yesterday, the Dutch.rnen held a tr-iangular hosting Rochester University and Albany :State, Senior's Mark Zullo and Steve Schutzer grappled :for the last time in front of a home crowd. Captain Zullo tied a Union All Time Re~ord by scoring 25 points in a single match against his opponem from Albany. He then accepted a forfeit from Rochester. Steve Schutzer didn't make out as well and was put on his back in th~ second period, wrestled well , for the first 3 minutes with Katz going on the. offensive in the last three giVing him a 17-3 victory. In th<; same weight class Howie Mastroianni registered a pin against his opponent from Rochester. Larry Dagostino decisioned both his opp.onents in the 134 lb. division as he upped his record to 6-1. Dagostino, who might well be the roughest grappler on the team, \bear-hugged\ his epponent from Hobart last Wednesday so hard that the poor kid was out of the match with only 5 seconds gone on the clock. The very next night Union had called upon to throw his weight . to take the court against around, gaining the respect of Rochester, atways great at home many C <mtinentaJs. The reserves, with their matchbox gym and led by Willy Henson and Luke boisterous fans. With most of the \Dillon added 10 more points to front court in foul trouble early in the already wide margin to bring the game, the Dutchmen were the game to. a satisfying end. down by 4 points at intermission. In r~ference to Siena, it was Although everyone continued to disclosed that they may have to play well, especially the guards, ~orfeit five games due to the the final outcome was 68-59, the ineligibility of one of its players. largest margin of the contest. The One of tllese games was against final score is quite deceiving. It Union, which cost the Dutchmen was a 2-4 point ballgame and the Capital District Tourney. Union was ''still in the game with However Coach Scanlon has two minutes to go,\ according to repeated!~ said he would not ask Coach Scanlon. Scanlon was also for the forfeiture because the quick ~o point out how J?hYs,i,cal a ineligible player in question was game It was as the offictals let a only a substitute. Only if the lot go by\ ~nd no breaks seemed E.C.A.c. makes an official ruling On Saturday the Dutchmen buried Hobart 40\9 registering the biggest team margin of the season. Mark Zullo pinned his opponent in 42 seconds setting the season's record for the fastest pin. Scott Media and . Tom Everett also put their opponents on their backs. Mastroianni, · Paquette and Lyons also Won :their bouts, Lyons triumphing with a superior decision 16-5. _Big The match against Albany became the highlight of the triangular as both Albany and Union easily upended Rochester. The Dutchmen won 39-12, while Albany defeated them 32-3. In the 118 lb. weight class, fral)k Mastroianni faced undefeated Katz from Albany. Giamartino Sophomores Scott Media and Tom Everett both kept their records unblemished as they both knocked out their opponents; Media registering a pin against Rochester. Freshman McClintock came out 1-I as he dropped an 8- 0 decision against undefeated Larry Mims from Albany, McClintock pinned his opponent from Rochester in 1:55. Frosh Frosh Don LoCascio also dropped his match against his to come our way. Another factor on the matter would Union take in the loss was Union's poor 36 the victory. percent shootif!g from the field The Garnet are happy to r~turn Swimming by DAVE HElLBERG Union College touched the wall just a little too late as they were edged by the Hobart swimmers, Get 2 Bucks for Blowing a Whistle That's what you can get by refereeing some basketball and volleyball games at any time of your choice during the week. Go an hour early to your own game and ref. or better yet take a few hoil rs off· some evening, ref 4 games and take home 8 bills. Not had for blowing a whist.Ie;:. For those interested, it's as easy as dropping up to the gym and putting your initials next to any ~pot on the schedule in Coach I. a wrence's office. 58-55. The divers did well as Mark Foster ·and Eva Schmeckenbecker placed first and , ~econd, respectively, in both the required and optional events. Also, 'rom Richardson ~plashed to victory three times in the 200 ll\1, the 200 backstroke and the 4-00 medley relay. Tom Burbank was an instrumental part of that relay and managed to finish the tiring day with a second place 200 freestyle and first place in the 200 hreaststroke. Finally, Union captured its other victory in the 400\ freestyle relay (West, Hernat, Norman, and Magaziner). The next home appearance for . the aquame11 will he on Saturday at 1;30 in Foote Pool. Levl·s Dave's. Mens Shop l 453 State St. (downtoYJil Schenectady) Howie flashes his moves. photo credit Cliff Langweiler THIS WEEl{ IN HOME SPORTS DATE ~PORT OPPONENT TIME Feb. 8th, Frosh Basketball, Albany Jr. Cot, 6 pm Varsity Basketball, Kings Point,. 8:00 pm Feb. 9th, Swimming, Norwich, 2:30pm Varsity Basketball, Trinity, 8:00pm Feb. 13th, Frosh Basketball, Hamilton, 6 pm Varsity Basketball, Hamilton, 8:00 pm The Bootery LINED AND WATERPROOF WINTER- AND HIKING BOOTS -Complete Line of Dance Acc.- and other Fine Foot Apparel 147 JAY ST. .Tel. 374-T/7~ Hr. 9·5:30, Th. 9-9 . I r ' I I · opponent from Albany. Hero Burell In the heavyweight c1ass DeCesare was put on his back by rliS opponent from Rochester. What turned out to he the most exciting match of the day was. when Rich Burell stepped on the mat to face Rudy Vido. Vido who might weJI be one of the biggest contenders for the National' this year, had some problems with Hurell. Rich lasted for. the whole first period and rode Vido for ilwre than 30 seconds before fal1ing victim to Big Rudy. But the crowd cheered the same, they knew Burell was the hero of the day. As it turned out Union and Albany both won 5 matches each, except that the latter had an extra pin thus they ~ nipped the Dutchmen 22-19. Albany upped its record to 11-1. The Union grapplers travel this Saturday to llieet WPl and Amherst. . . The Red Fox Inn 123 JAY ST. 'A QUIET BAR ... . A PLACE TO TALK' Bud by the Pitcher -

3 the nni ~is rry his 8- is e s New! Novella Nelsen Friday, Feb. 15 8:30 at Mt!nloria.J Cllapel Vol.l03, No. 11 'life is j~st one damned thing after another.\- Elbert Hubbard Thursday, February 14, 1974 35 cents Happy Valentine,s Day Reid Attacks Election Law Regents Aid Increase Congressman Ogden Reid (0~ N.Y.) charged that \New York S.tate is the only st:ate in the Union that bars absentee ba.Uot:i.ng in the primary, disenfranchising students, senior citizens and members of the armed services .. \ Speaking at Union on Friday, February ~th. Reid, a Democratic Gubernatorial Candidate, said that the bin just passed by the New ¥0rk State Legislature; moving the primary froin June to September, discriminates against most college students who will already be. back at school by Sept. lOth, the new primary date (Union College remains th( exception). . Reid noted that the Suprem( · Court decided 30 years ago that. \the right to vote in, .. a primary f o r- t h e n o m i .n a t i o n o f candidates ... is a right ~ecured by the Constitution.\ Speaking on student-related • topics. Reid commented that many private colleges are in deep financial troubl€ following cutbacks in work/ study funds and the EOG program. Reid would like to \hold the line on tuition.\ giving higher priority to educational financing. Reid also noted the disparity between salaries in state and private colleges. T.he state, he ~aid, paying higher salaries, often attracts good professors from private institutions. Commenting that we have a \non-governor\ in Albany. Reid claimed that Gov. Wilson has not detected vet that \there is a gas crisis or ~n energy ~hMtage.\ The voluntary gas-rationing program, in which cars with even license plafe numbers filling up on even dates and those with odd numbers filling up on odd days does not provide for emergency availabilitv. Reid ~oted also that the amount of heating fuel in this state is critical. Hitting close to CONCORDY: Gubernatorial candidate, Rep. Ogden Reid· (D.-N.Y.) addresses Union student$. reform. Greater state aid, he feels, should be given to improve prison The New York State Board of propose increasing the maximum faci l·ities. This, R·eid sa,id, Regents announced its recom- ~t holar incentive award to $1,700, includes. \changing the concept of mendations for increasing State or tuition ~ whichever is less penal institutions. There are too aid to s~udents attending post- for freshmen, and increasing the many Bastilles in this state.\ secondary institutions of maximum award for sopho- Besides building new structures education. They are aimed at mores, juniors, and seniors to R e i d be I i eves that t he bringing aid figures more into line SL200. The Grants would also be work I r.e)ease pro.gram and with actual college-attendance ~caled down as family income programs within the institutions costs and at closing the gap in the rose above the minimum. should be thoroughly. examined. cost differential between private lhe program would be fully Modernization of police. and public institutions. implemented in the 1976-77 merchant, and block security Essentially the Regents' plan academic year, when awards to programs also comes under Reid's calls for an immediate doubling lower division students would he appelation of prison reform. of the maximum scholar ince(ltive at the $1.700 level, and grants to Judges, he feels, should be aid payments in 1974-75 & further upper division students would be removed from party politics. increases in 1975-76 and 1976-77, $200 less. Reid also emphasized the need in order to provide students with The Regents also propose a for legislative reform in substantial help in meeting tuition change in the manner of adjusting N.Y.State. The Legislature, he costs. The program, when fully taxable income for families with said, \must have the right to cafl implemented, will permit low and more.than one member attending itself b·ack into session on their middle income students greater college full-time. own motion ... They should be an freedom of college choice. The The Regents recommend equal branch of the Governor's plan is based on the principle of retention of Regents Scholarships Office, not just ary appendage.\ \reducing college costs for as a means of recognizing V Reid criticized the Governor students in similar economic academic excellence. By 1976-77, photo by . i for sending in most messages to circumstances,\ regardless of the Regents Scholarships would home. Reid said that he learned the legislature towards the end of whether they attend a private or a provide a flat grant of $250 to all that the supply of Residual Fuel the session in order to force public institution. recipients. This would be in #6 at Union is limited by the legislation. He also suggested that The Regents propose an addition to the basic scholar · d Th the sessions be open. the votes of interim schola.r incentive program incenti\le grant. Furthermore, the supplier to five or stx · ays. e state and federal governments, the legislators recorded, and a for 1974-75 that would increase Regents recommend that the Reid charged, did not anticipate journal of the floor proceedings the maximum award to $1,200 a nurnber of scholarships be P rinted. •·ear, or tuition - whichever is increased so that there would be this oil crisis nor are they doing • Congressman Reid's campaign less - for lower division students. aWard winners in each high something about it. visit to Union C'ollege was The current maximum award is school in the State on the basis of Questioned by a member of the · h' · · h sponsored by·· the Political Forum. $600 per. year. The awards for one scholarship for every 40 aud'!ence as to Is opmton on t e New Yoi'k State Drug Law, Reid * * * * upper division students woulsJ be students Who graduated from that Those interested· in· working in $2.00 less. These would pe paid to school in the previous year. This said he favors changes in the J.a-w. Advocating the legalization of . ~eid's campaign should contact students from families with net would begin m the 1974-75 marijuana, he stressed that it is Ellyn Roth, 156 Fox, 370-6403, taxable incomes of $2,000 or less academic year. who is organizing for the d 11 g ts would be scaled \importan.t to tackle organized an a ran . . . r++++++..J.Jo~+leoi.Jo ... .Jof...of:ooHo!o,+llo+H+iHooH~ 's·tatewi'de Students for Reid. d · · crime on the top where the big · own as mcome rose. pusher is located.\ l-or 1975-76, the Regent-s -. Low-keyed campaign!ng and Addressing the Watergate · voter apathy charactenzed the Affair and President Nixon's . R A B .{•t c t Steering Committee election for involvement, Reid said ·that he enerf S U . the Cla~s of 1976 representative. \persona·lly believes the President • • When It was all over, Hank should be i~~eached.\ ~e hop~s by LAUREN GORDON will be informal Bernstein emerged as the winner. that the Judiciary Committee Will A 1 . . . 1 bl These contacts Four candidates fought out the· . ·· . pp Icattons are now avai a e meetings and conversations. so . d JON: f th act wtth some speed. Reid was , . . pnmary contest. an ·;r o e among th.e first to suggest an for next years ResJ?ent Advisor each applicant will be seen as he voters stumbled into Student · . program There Will be some reallv is. Then, according to Dean · · h 1 Impeachment resolutron after ·. · · Activities to express t emse ves. \'' , . S· .. d· . h d' . changes m R.A. procedures. Smith. the committee \will be · Hank Bernstein came out on top . .. txe>n s . atur ay nig · t Isaster. F' 1 h R 'd t Ad 'sor k d · f f'ft en B k b . ·r· II trst y t e • est en VI . Joe e rn a room or t e · · th · 1 · 1 h 64 votes and ac to su ~ects spec1 tea y ... d :. h, b . f $~ 2 OOO . h 1 . f .rn e pnmary w · .• c.oncerning New York State. Reid 11 u$get 25 000 as eben cut 25 r~,m 11 ·'b· k hours.\ and come up Wit a Ist 0 Lee Rimsky garnered 40 votes, .d 1 . to , . a out a . ';c ro ac . twenty-two unanimous choices. 1 . . - c· I S h t d sa1 1e wants to see pnson f d f' . 1 . . h d h . e tmrnatmg ar , c war z an As 0 now a e tntte po tcy as In other war s. t e committee Andy F>earce. not been formulated, but there will have to go through as many The runoff election held are possibilities in the offing. At ballots as necessary to choose Wednesday, Feb. 13. also brought present, Head R.A.'s pay no twenty-two uncontested R.A.'s a dismal voter turnout. with only room fee and they are provided from the whole pool of 137 out of the '76 Class's 480 with an $18 meal ticket per week. applicants. Members of the members voting. The final vote They also receive a free telephone. committee will have to be count was Hank Bernstein with S ·1·1 Y-.. ''G - ~., p1 . our · uts Okay, so you figure you've got two ·pretty ~ough courses. You want to graduate on time, so there's got to be a third course. But you know that there won't be too much time to s~are for t~at third course 1 so it might as well he one that won't requue much time and effort. while at the same time offer at least a sure B. You lo.ok in the catalog a:nd lo and behold: no listing for the kind of course that fills the hill. Fortunately. there is the line-backer. and 1 here is the grapevine, so you will have no trouble finding a course in which showing.up means a Band doing some work means an A These courses, which ate an unwritten part of every student's academic career. have been kept dark and mysterious for too long. What we need is a special section for those cour~es in the catalog. Whv have to scour the linebacker or stay alert for whispered rumors when you can have it all there right in front of you? All R.A.'s who have twenty-five somewhat knowledgeable about 76 votes and Lee Rimsky with 61 students or more on their floor, each applicant. and they will find do not pay for their room. \Half- that they must compromise by R.A.'s,\ who have less than trusting each other's choices. twenty-five students on their lloor, pay half the room fee. !\:ext year, all R.A.'s may·be paying for 1 4 of their room. It was ~peculated that they use the room lor 1;. personal usc. \Half R.A's\ wou1a pay what they are now paying. or would perhaps receive a 25C't decrease in order to equalize the charges across the board. There will be substantial changes in the selection process. DEPARTMENT OF VEGETATION A NO Previously, applicants had to PROCRASTINATION Requirements. for 'major: Total disinterest in anything but the grade. Successful completion of no courses from other departments. Courses of inconsequence: V.P. 10 Trends in Bricklaying: A comprehensive look at the chnmological variations in tier-order-ing and the development of the Speital mitering system. Prof. Mortar. V.P. 32 Early American Billboards: An in-depth study, historywise. of pioneer techniques in the a~ biz. Prof. Madison. V;P. 150 \Jhe Psychologicat Implications of The South Pole: The startling. unconscious effects on man's behavior of the belief that such a ·large body of ice ex.ists on this planet are discussed. One field trip. Prof. Glacier. · V.P. 90 Independent study, by arrangement with the Rathskellar. receive faculty recommendations, tak.e .a \state of the world;·, test, and participate in formal group interviews, discussing hypothetical problems. Portions of this procedure were considered irrelevant for the det~rmination of the best R.A.'s possible. Dean Smith is going to try another method. According to his sel.:ction process, all applicants will be initially contacted by members of an all-student selection committee, composed of Head R.A:s.. R.A.'s. and representatives of other groups. The Concordy Hotline has arrived! Call us at 370-6155 andstate your case. . photo by Leslie Steineker

Page2 CONCORDIENSIS, 1hursda!', Februarv 14, 1974 - ' - - ~ . . Editors-in-chief.. ............... Judy Dein, Bill Talis News Editor ..................... , ....... Pltyllis Edelman Culture Editor .................................. Pete Sobol Sports Editor ................................. Bart Mer~er Photo Editor ............................... _.Rill Erichson Ass't Photo Editor ........ , ........... Leslie Steineker Copy .Editor ............................... ~ ... P'bil Alcabes Blithering Editors ................... Rob Mondschein Cluis O'Connor Business Editor ............................. Alan Gnessin National A~vertising ...................... Steve Kelley Subscriptions Editor ............... Gene Rosenblum Layout ..... ; ............ Dave Strom, Linda Mackey Coneordiemls is published every Thursday by the student body of Union College, Old' Gym Hall. Schenectady, N:\ .. Y., Publications Office, 1'he Jewish World Publications, 77'1 State S.t ..• SchCilectady, N.Y., ·123()7 (346-2356). Entered in the Schenectady Post Office as Second Class Matter. Subscription Rate 35 cents per copy. $8,_00 a year delivered a_nywhere in the United States. Deadli~e for c?.J)Y !s T_!J~ay S:OO P.M. To Our Subscribers Conco~4y feels obligated to relate to the entire College Community ev.ents surrounding the gross. ~eficiencies in its subscription .service during ;the past year_ The transition from ~me editorial staff to a new one is always characterized by urrcertainties in operation management, and we have f9und this tD be especially true during the New Year. We received voluminous inquiries by persons who have paid for subscriptions, yet received few .. if any, issues during the fall term. As an entirely new staff, we found that much of Concordy's operations were neglected by the previous management, and we have set out with the determination that such circumstances will never occur. Concordy is often the only source of information for an lllumnus ol' the only liaison between a child and parent who communicate only when report cards are ()assed out or during times of \financial stress.\· We can only apologj:ze to our subscribers for· nrevious inconveniences, and would appreciate hearing from you immediately, should an ~v:e;rsight occur. It~s UpToYou The Social Committee is t-he targe-t ·of .a good deal of verbalized frustration on this campus. Despite the quantity of criticism, few students are willing to extend themselves in any effort to improve the social committee's functioning. Certainly, Union is ·an excellent school. If one can throat it out here, the opportunities at any professional school in the country are great. Aside from U1,1ion's academic endowments, there is not much else outstanding ab()ut the school. Hence, the discontent among certain circles. The discrepancy between the constructive criticism offered and the constructive effort extended suggests an interesting theory. If it is true that there are people who truly desire a change in the social life on. this cam)luS (and that means people who are willing to put the time and effort into 'it), then they are really a minority. Likewise with Coneordy, we find people eager to criticize our commetary, but;;'-~:~¢l,le~ at the '/:tPpportunity foF contribution. Perhaps tfie\·· Commi-ttee and Concordy are fighting a battle which already lost. If you really want things to improve socially around here, give us a hand. Political Forum by FRED WEINSTEIN The Forum offers the student a ch(!nce to hear points of view qf elected officials or academician~ that are not presented in the normal course curriculum. On Wednesday, February 20, at K:OO p.m. in SS 016, the Forum will present Christian Bay, currently Chairman of the Department of Political Economy at the University of Toronto; his talk will be entitled \Participatory Citizenship.'' ' Professor Bay's academic career is a djstinguished one. He emigrated to North America from Norway, .where he received his Ph.D. at the University of Oslo. He served as an instrU(:(Of at Michigan State, Berkeley, Stanford, and the University of Alberta, before taking on his current position at Toronto. His nook, The Structure of Freedom, received the Woodrow Wilson P ri1e as the hest political science· \\.t~rk of the year 1958 and has oeen acclaimed as a classic work on the subject of freedom. Profess<>r Bay is. re~ognized as one of th€ ·lefid~rl! ·Q:f- :the '\post- heha vlo rat~· m overru!nt 'in Political Science and he has writfen ·and spoken widely on the need for educationiil reform and the humanization of the political process. It is his belief that \the nHlst fundamental purpose and justification of politics is to promote a more just society, that is. a society committed to optimal security and freedom for all human beings, on the premise of the equ:al and infinite Worth of every h urn an life.\ Bay believes political scientists have aA integral role to play in ;politics. f~r '\they should be more responsible than others for promoting a searching and rationat and therefore radical, dialogue a bout what must o.r can nr ought to be done, in the interest .of justice or survival, given the state of the nation and .nf the world.\ You Said It l . . . . Nott a Theatre Edite>rs, Concordiensis: I wouldn't cafe to argue the merits and demerits of placing the Admissions Office in N ott Memorial, for that is a decis~on that can easily be handled by standard cost-benefit processes. But it is clear that for physical, aesthetic, and architectural reasons the cultural center proposed by Barbara Balpem '74 is not a workable alternative. Contrary to Ms. Halpern's statement, the proposed project does ccall for the building to be \restmctured for it includes a return to the original interior configuration, a very far cry from. the Nott Memorial of today. Far from being \cozy it would be mostly an immense volume of space, soaring nearly 100 feet up frem the main floor to a dome resting on a airy structure of tapering iron columns. Re- creation of this space would necessitate removal of the 1902 extension of the lower gallery, which supports the \' theater's lighting grid. Also gone would be the wall separating the theater proper from the passageways. The theater which is the main 'premise of the \cultural center\ would no longer exist. t: or the sake,of N ott Memorial, that would be all to the good. Because of the heavy electrical loads and the presence of paint, lumber, cloth, scenery, and miscellaneous other highly flammable materials, the theater is a \high risk\ use so far as fire is concerned. N ott's cast-iron construction is very vulnerable to fire. lJ se of the building for a theater has resulted in continuing damage to the interior -- dam- age tha·t inevitably results when any building is forced into a function for which it was not designed. For the long-term. preservation of the building, the hest use is the one nearest its orig- inal purpose. The library wasn't such a use; neither is the theater, and I doubt that a \cultural center\ would be, either. The proposing of alternate solutions for the theater program did not fall within the scope of the Historic Structure Report, so the absence of any such suggestions should not be construed as significant. Since the proposed restoration project stands in basic conflict with continued use as a theater; I would take it as a given that appropriate resolution of the theater problem must be an integral part of any attempt to implement the restoration of N ott Memorial as proposed in the report. And I think there would be general agreement on campus that the overall quality of the theater program is such that it deserves equally first--rate facili- ties. In short, maintaining the theater in Nott Memorial serves neither the thespians nor the building. Both deserve a better ·rate. Bernard R. Carman Director of Publications , ~ Pu~lic ~elations. * * * * No Pets To the Editor: The New York State Health Department rules that no pets are to be allowed in any public place where food is served. Possible consequences of infringement on this law could result in the closing of the Rathskeller for an indefinite period of time. A bad risk to take considering the Rath- skeller's new popularity. Harold Richardson Food Set•vice Director Gary Hipp Food Servi~e Managn * * * r Dance Du·pe To the Editor: In recent weeks the SociaiJ Committee has been operating under a somewhat adverse public image. This image has arisen from a variety of events. Rumors of a snafu at the Ike and Tina Tun'ler Concert last term, rumors of monetary mismanagement, · as well as the possibility -of not · having any major concerts this term. These are rumors. I do not know whether tlley are true or false. I do know tllat these rumors intone the prevalent feeling toward the Social Committee across the width and breadth of Union. One would think that any organization operating under such conditions would put out their utmost effort in their next production to counter the ill feeling and image that they are the recipients of. One might think that \any\ Mgani1.ation might do this, but not the Social Committee. 1. do not know . the complications arising from concert bookings, publicity, and organizational hassles .. I, however, do know that it is not all that c0mplicated or difficult to hire a band that is capable of playing dance music at a dance. The group JONAH is quite talented. Their music is quite good and of a high quality. 1t is fine music for a Coffeehouse, but inexcusable for a dance. I went to a \dance\ the other night; so did many other people. I was very disappointed; I'm alra1d many others were very disappointed as well. The Coffeehouse appears to be able to hire suitable talent, fraternities appear capable of aquiring dance hands when needed, why can't the Social Committee? h indeed appears that tlle\kiss'' of the Social Committee is the \kiss of death.\ The loss of one dollar is unimportant. What IS Important is the fact that the Social Committee appears incapable of carrying out a satisfactory dance, or for that matter, social calendar. It appears that the time has come that the Steering Committee and Committee-on-Committees take a look around and see what's coming off. They, above all others, have both the legal and moral responsibility to do at least that. Alan Gnessin * * * * Editors, Concordiensis: On February 8, we, along with a few other unsuspecting students went to the \dance\ (?) at the Alumni Gym featuring Jonah. Jonah, as a band, was good, but, as a graup at a dance they were hotrendous. White we were there, M the one hundred students who might have been there, between ten and twenty might have been dancing part of the time, The rest of the students were either ·sitting around (probably figuring that they were at a concert) or buying beer. However, i! would be wrong tc blame Jonah for this poor stiow.ing, The blame rests. squarely with the 'Social Committee (which would probably accept the ·responsibility but not the blame). The S«:>ciai Committee should know what kind of music Union College students like to dance to. If the fraternities can figure it out (example: A D Phi's dance a week bef«:>re), it should .not be too difficult for the Social Committee to do the same. Obviously, somewhere along the Hne there is a communications gap between the students and the Socia! Committee. In the Freshman Record, a phone number is given if you want to suggest and I or criticize the events sponsored by the Social Committee. It . would be interesting to find out how many students know of the number, how many students have used it and how many of their suggestions and/ or criticisms have reached the Social Committee at large. To be sure, it would be difficuit for the Social Committee to please everyone, but it could conceivably do better than it is doing at the present time. We hate to make the suggestion that yet another· poll be taken th'is year. but it is fairly obvious that this could help the Social Committee b-e more representative of the over all student body. Also, it might help if students who are not on the Social Committee could attend the meetings of it and voice their opinions. As it stands now, very few. if an:Y. students know when or where the meetings are held. If the Social Committee continues on its present course, more and more students will stop going to Social Committee sponsored events because the chances of enjoying the event are slimmer, and as a result more events will lose money, or more · money than they are losing right now. The handwriting is on the walls of the Alumni Gyrn; it is up to the Social Committee to read it. * * * * Peter Shore Chip Cohen Canines Ca~ned On Campus by PETE TAVINO Last spring a law forbidding pets on campus was passed. The .l5 persons who at that time possessed registered dogs were the only ones exempt. The law rermitted them to keep their pets until they graduated. However, all dog owners are subject to . t-he leash laws on campus. On Monday, January 28, one student was fined $50.00 because his unregistered dog was picked up oy the dog catcher on campus. I >espite the imposition of such a tough .Fine, students continuS! to allow their dogs to run loose, hringing them to dining areas, and adding unregistered canines to the population explosion. I he leniency of the past term · will not be repeated in 1974. for the imposition placed upon those \\hO respect t.he JaWS is tOO great. Many schools simply do not allow pets, but Union is not, in ueneral, so close-minded an institution. If it is shown that the campus can be a good place to <iwn an animal, we shall see the time when pet registration will be r·copened. pho~o by Vi '· . J I '#' '< ,, • J . .. ~\ I .,~ ' ' J' a 11 l r u r: F L s ·C lc (\ .I' 'I~ t ll l:' r I\ r ,- t r e i· a !- I c ' t [ ' I t ~ ! ~ c '

e '· ) ) J ·')? I • IIi· ' ' CONCORDIENSIS, Thursda.J:, February 14,)974 Page3 Stock_ Market Troubles .. Trusiees ( 'olleges across the country are l'Xperiencing a fina;nc.ial, adt:lJission~ ;ind ~wriculan cti.sis; many school.s are _gQing under <fRC/ many :;tre cutti11g hack. Th[\t hody .,._h'ich will either save or doom its lmtitution is the ~oard of rrust~es o( that college.' ' i ·be · prlm~ry probleni that a BtJ<l,rd ~~f Trustees· dw~;ils upon is hov. to keep its school solvent. rhe Board will handle other nmjor problems such as, in liMon's case, whether the. school v.ill .become co-ed, whether the rn)fessors wi].] be . allowed. to· uni(l nize, and what sort of tenure' pn)gmm will be adopted Ths: · Rm:1rd does not really, operate the. sch.(l ol per se; this t;isk i,<; Jeff to the admlrii~tration. . The Boa~d of Trustees is the ref me the body respansible fqr ~ecur,ing the future for this and o!i}er institutions of rrigher learning. Is the Board of Trustees of' Union College doing a good .i () b '! I he Board's function ofnu1king n1on_ey branches into two areas: the 'investment of the endovvment, lli1d raising funds from alumni, corporations, foundations, and frie-nds. Two points must be kept i·n mind when looking into Union;s run d raising abilities. The first is 1 hat Union did not start soliciting money. as it now does throl\gh the annual fund raising campaign. pht.ma tho ns. capital campaigns. ctc., until 1904-65. 170 years after its founding. Secondly. Union\s alumni until recently have not heen a wealthy group. Due to the lctct that Union was rnai nly an engineering school until after wwn ended, the alumni from the liheral arts who have become v.ealthy, . who can. contribute hundreds· c5( 'housaf.Jds. or. even millions a,re only no:w· ~ppeafing rww on Uni,on's horizon. · I o look at the .comp.osition of the· Hf)a~d it~elf from a nnancial aspect. i't appears ·that. we are not lncking. in .men w)io ha\:e .thei'r o.Wll wealth and· 11iso have the .:onncctions to. greater wealth. To name a few: Samuel B. Fortenhaugh, Jr., a fairly wealthy lawyer from Philadel.phia, who. \\as kind enough to contribute $57.443 to Union in the ·n- '73 p_eriod. Henry Schaffer, owner of ~chaffer Stores,. Co. is, to say the least. a .m<:m of.means. Edward R. K·a:ne is President o{ Du.Pont; I' ,, ' I • ' Kennel~. J .. Whal~nis is Vice- President of AT. and T; Ralph D .. Ren.oeH, who taught at Union and M.l.T., has various connections with research groups; William R Adams is retired head of St. Regh Paper Co.; Thomas F. Hanigan, is Chief Executive of W.R. Grace & Co. The list could continue to include presidents of investment firms and t.h.e de~n of the Woodrow Wilson School of Public and International Affairs. The po,int that is clear is that these men have money and know where the money lies. Eleven schools similar to Union wer.e chosen_ to compare to Union: Amherst, Hamilton, Williams. Bowdoin, Bates, Colby, Colgate, Middlebury, OccidentaL Trinity. and Wesleyan. 1\n examination .of the chart ef the eleven schools for a two-year period will reveal several facts. !he first is that Union College does a fair job in raising funds. It is excellent in gainingmoney both !rom its alumni and from corporations, but has not faired Continued on page 7 You Said It! Saga Saves To The Editor: lhose of 'you that eat at West have probably noticed sher.bets at lunch only and ice cream only at uinner. Our cost on ice cream has risen 37C:i in the last year. ·we 'Aere able to absorb this cost until rising prices in all food areas have forced us to do ·something about it. We felt this solution to be lletter than having one Qr two ~cnorJs portioned out to each indi'Jidual which would result in greater confusion in the limited. ~trea we ha \e along with lower satisfaction. Waste continues to be a problem also, as students \eyes are ·bigger than their stomachs.\ Each meal we throVI out approximately 60 pounds of food left on plates. The only control we 11ave over this is portionin,g which has a]ways been criticized. Waste is the reason for this controL You,. <He throwing your money away instead of letting it be ·put to hetter use in other areas. Please cat what you take or don't take it. We would like to offer the best meal plan possible, and to do this we need your cooperation. The Food Committee Caucus Crie$ J<:(litors: Concordiensis; An article appeared ih the last issue of this newspaper which I led was n:ot only unjust. but 'Ahich also has the potenti,ality of. hcing a destructive fm:ce in·the <1rga11ization of a much needed ~tl:ldent activity, the Women's ('aucus. !he article strongly suggested that the Women's Caucus has no leadership. nor eveh p<Jtehtial lca<fer:.;hip, and that the reason fortilis isthat Union Women are !earful of such a role. and of v..hatever consequences it might have on their social lives. This suggestion. however, is simply untrue. There are at least four v.omen presently vying for leadership roles in the Caucus. I he real reasons why a governing hoard has not thus far been established are two: l-In the past, .so few people have attended the meetings, no governing board was necessary. (Now that some 50 people have, in recent weeks. joined the Caucus. leadership has suddenly become a viable issue.) 2-Some members of the group feel that to elect a governing board is to opt for a status yuo orientation of political enterprise. Whether or not this feeling is a justified one, all feelings expressed by any member. of the group. are taken seriously and di;scussed before any communal tledsion.s are made. Sincerely, Mary K. Vetterling Philosophy Department Editor's note: In re-reading the editorial in question, Ms. Vetterling will notice that it was emphasized that there is potential leadership in the Women's Caucus. The purpose of the article was merely to serve as an impetus for the gmup. The need for t[le group to grow. together as friends is undeniable; :-till, one must question whether the Caucus can afford the luxury of rambling along while the needs of UColl women are so pressing. l'hrough ,the re.cent election, these goals may be realized. * * * * ·The Heart Is A Lonely Hunter Some of the strangest dialogue ·:in actor ever had to learn fell·to Alan Arkin while starring in Wa:rner Bros.' The Heart Is a Lonely Hunter. Arkin, a master of articulate dialogue who won an Academy .\ward nomination for his fi.rst nwtion· picture, The Russians Are . Coming, The Russians Are Coming, portrays a deaf-mute and had to become letter-perfect in the sign langttage of the deaf. Moliere's TARTUFFE will be presented h_v :the .Union College Mountebanks Feb. 22-Mar. 2. Reserve your To get' the hand signals, Arkin read books and studied films on ·the subject. He also took lessons in sign language and lip reading lrorn a blind acquajntance. tickets at the bqx office now· (370-·6l5J) .. · ' : 0 . . . . . . . . · . _ ; ph~:t~ 6¥.Sc(;)tt' Oo~don: ~ p1n1o-n:. ., ~.- j,ri hi~ poignl:).tlt ro.Ie.as.ih.e deaf~ i.n.ut.e~ .J otin Si~ger; 1\rkin br.i~gs 1\armlh and friendship into· th~ lives of lonely peopl'e in a small Women's by ELAINE DIMPE:LFELD I he Women's Caucus, now in its second term of existence •. has just elected an executive board. !.aura Chakrin and Claudia Schlosberg have been chosen co: ,~:hairwomen. The two at-large members are Linda Burns and Debbie Williams. Committee heads shaH also serve an the exec- utive board. They will be elected next week, since the last meeting took longer than expected. I he original constitution does not provide for elections to any positions, and much time was ~pent discussing how to carry out the elect·ions. The constitution must he amended in tile future to contain these positions. In the discussion about election procedures. different aspects of the nature of this group came out. According to school laws, the Women's Caucus is funded by ~tudent taxation; only students can vote. This. apparently is unfair to administration and faculty members. who have been involved in the group. They can. however, continue to work in the group. I he issue arose as to whether men could vote. On the one hand. the group is working for women and men may not really know \\hat women want. Ethically ~peaking. though, since the \\'omen's Caucus is welcoming the help and attendance of female and male students, it does not 'eem fair to turn around and tell men who might want to get involved that they cannot vote. In addition many of the goals of the group would affect both women and men at Union College. The concensus at the meeting was to allow men to vote (there were no men there anyway). lhe official rules for the consti- tution have not yet been decided upon. I he election of officers might have seemed to be creating a ·distinctly separate ruling circle, hut the main concern voiced was to increase the efficiency and create representatives for the group. It was emphasized that officers shall represent the group as .a total, and if they are speaking about their own views, they shall say that they are giving their view C town. Among them is Mick Kelly, a .. u· . c u.s· a 14-yeat-old girl played by new- wmer Sondra Locke. who made and not the group's; this shall her professional acting debut after hold true for all members. The \\inning the role in a national llavor which the group has had of . ta l.e.nt, sear~ h. . . . . ... e4uality for all its members the C o-starnng m the distmguished lreedom for the'ccincerns:or·the ~''~~¥e'efi~-; Vers~O'n o-t' · C'aison group to focus in differe.nt .... M'cC1rllers'' c-elc:!br'atecl · n·ovel are t!irections should · thus be Laurinda Barrett, Stacy Keach, ma·intairred. Since new officers Jr., Chuck, McCann, Biff may be elected each term, more M cGui~e._ Per:c.Y. Rodriguez and members will have a chance to · C'icely' iyson. ' · learn how to run a group and The Heart is a Lonely Hunter how to deal with people. The 'I il'l be shown at 7:00, 9:10, opportunity for ready change is <~Ad I 1:20 p.m., in SSOJ6 on Feb. provided as well. Change is also I oth and 17th. Admission is provided for by the nature of the :..$~111J.Oi11JO:lll.mtllllil1lllllmli!IIIIIIIUII.immlDUiiUZIUBU~!j committees, which can be created ~ and dropped in accord with the Applications for positions interests of the group. on the Orientation Committee !'he next Women's Caucus will be available in the Dean mee·ting _will. be jn Strauss Lounge of Students Office 011 l!riday, . on Monday. February 18 a-t 9 Feb. 15. p.m. Upstairs in room 201. a All applications must be v.omen's. center is being set up. ·filled out and retluned by' !'he Women's Caucus is an Monday, March 4, and agent for change in.a':rnore or less interviews will. be scheduled for the first week in March. defined society. It has felt it necessary now to define .a Assistant Chairmanships as well\ as other committee ~tructure for itself, i.e., create a positions are available. ~lease government It seems to he · n<Jte: These are not huilding in channels, .for ' - applications for orientation II e x i b i I i.t y , e 4 u a I it y , a n d counsellors. individual i tv. illl!l'lftiiSII!anananananllllllllllllllllllaru!llll!ilti. Concordy Editors underfire. LeVI'S ·Dave's. Men5 Shop 453 Stllte St. \(dawncoara SdlenecJady) photo by MGM, Inc. DARI- TREET 'Student Discount' (with 1.0.) YOUR UNION I.D. CARD IS WORTH 10% MORE AT 2049 Van Vranlien Mon.-Fri. 6-9, Sat. 8-9 377-4261 THE COMPLETE RECORD.& TAPE·STORE * * * * * APEX MUSIC KORNER * * * * * COJlNER. OF STATE&: BROADWAY JAKE LIPSTEN'S LIQUORS Tel. 374-1188 Mon.-Sat. 9 a.m.-9 p.m. 464 State St. ·oowntown Schenectady

Page4 CONCORDTEWSTS, Thursday, February 14, 1974 MUIIC Comedy Theater by CHUCK ROTHMAN The Firesign Theatre is back. We can laugh again. For those of you who may not know, the Firesign Theatre is to modern comedy records as the Be,atles are to modern music: quite simply, the greatest. They weave webs of humor that are hilarious in a way no one else is. 'Their past two albums were disappointments, one major and one minor, but in their newest, The Tale of the Giant Rat of Sumatra, they return to top form. Messrs Proctor, Bergman, Ossman, and Austin return to using a relatively coherent plot. It concerns a case 'out of the chequebook of Hemlock Stones, the great defective, and his companion and biographer Dr. John Flotsam. O.D. Stones works on the theft of the Zeppelin Tube hel·onging to J ona_s Acme, the pharoah of American industry, by the arch-criminal The Electrician. The trail leads from Stones' Oat in London to the sewers beneath the M oebus Dick nightclub in Chicago for the climactic:. confrontation. The comedy is Firesign at its best: it comes at the listener fast and furious, so fast that it is physically impossib'le to hear all Volunteers: Help Wanted by JEANNIE CASSIN There are several programs in Schenectady which could benefit from student involvement. One of these is the Schenectady Intensive Probation Project, located on the third Ooor of the Boys' Club at 411 lJ nion St. This program involves 1.1~16 vear oldkidswho are on prohatio.n hut involved in all kinds of activities which can give them a feeling of accomplishment. A student volunteer with any particular skill. such as photography or. music, can teach ~mall groups of kids on a regular oasis. Tutors for individuals arc also needed, especially in languages and math. If anyone has other ideas he would like to see implemented in the program,. he should call the Project Office at 370-2313. Other programs which need \olunteers include: The YMCA day-care center (caH 374-9136). the Boy's Club, and the campus- run Big Brother I Big Sister program. Anyone wishing more extensive information about any of the city-run prQgrams should contact the Schenectady \' olunteer Bureau at 372-3395. lhis organization is the coordinator of many volunteer activities for the community. Oppcmunities for constructive action really do exist. But much more is needed including interest. concern and effort on the part of the Union College student oody. the humor at one sitting, or even two or three. Puns and double (and triple) entendres abound. This is one of their best efforts. (iet the album soon or else risk heing lost when people start repeating the lines. ·Giee.Ciub - hy BRUCE DOWNSBROUGH I he Union College Glee Club wii! appear i.n a concert with the Wheaton College Glee Club on Sunday afternoon, February 24, at 4:00 p.m. in Memorial Chapel. lhe two groups will perform a \aried program including three . motets by the 16th century German, Heintich Schuetz, Franz Schubert's Miriam's Song of Tr.iumph, and Randall Thompson's Americana. Th.e Schubert work is based on an Old Testament \ersion of an Egyptian- Jew conniet. The;! texts for: the Thompson Americana are taken !'rom The Ametican Mercury. l'he Union Glee Club will also perform two American folk tunes, The E-R·I·E (arranged by Elliot 1-orbes). and When~ Johnny C,oftles .. M~rching Home (arranged 'by Fenno Heath). Soprano soloist for the concert is Wheiit~Hl vocal instructor Fllalou Dimmock. Tenor Rick Herbst will also solo, and Howard Grossberg will accompany .(he concert. ('(>nducting the concert will be Wheat on's Director, Charles Fassett, and Union's Guest Director. Peter Flanders. Prof. Flanders, who Is directing the Union group while Prof. Hugh Allen Wilson is on sabbatical for the rest of the year, is a music professor at Skidmore; he also direc'ts the Skidmore choral groups. Wheaton performed m the Chapel last February, when they como ined with the Union Glee nub for the King David concert. Admission is free to the Union community (hring an ID card). Interfraternity Council by P. G. DANIEL . Interfraternity Council? What ·~is that? What does it dG? of the campus commu:nity, and having an organization f>uch as the l FC mak~s it easier for rhe fraternities to become part of Co.J!ege life. One head :is better than fourteen when things come down to functioning as part of a of the I FC officers a·nd th~ Dean of Students). The Rushing Committee is .. t'he most important of the four. It fornmlates a rushing policy for the lFC. which, when approved hy the I FC. hecomes binding on all the htJuscs. You may well ask, Why is there a need for a i:ushi11g policy'? Well, if there weren't one, the houses would end up in a free-for- all for pledges, cutting each others' throats in the attempt to get pl'edges. A rushing pol.icy at least tries to protect freshmen to some extent, to prevent them from being snowed by the houses right away. There is, or usually has been, a \no-cGntract period\ right at the beginning of fall term in an attempt to let freshme·n get adjusted to college life, before the hard sell begins. A rushing policy also introduces some order into a potentially disruptive and chaotic situation. Has ical'ly, tl~e IFC is an organization founded of, by, and for the fraternities ·Of Union. According to .the preamble of the IFC Constitution, it is \( i)n order that the fraternities of Union College may he a:ble to assist more efficiently in promoting the welfare of the College and to hecome more responsible as integral parts of the college organization ... \ that the IFC was founded. The fraternities are part \ iable organization. \' !'he I FC is to be the only student body to govern mauers pertain.ing to fraternities, their organization, or function, It worked with the Student Affairs Committee in disciplinary cases that come up against a house. That is, the IFC decides what punishment to take aga!RSt the ' violating .house, and either enacts t,he punishment itself (in the form. of fines or suspension from the I rC) or recommends '' ... to the appropriate C~llege administrative agency ... \ action to he taken.' In effect, the I:FC acts as a screen between the College and the fourteen chapters on campus, serving as a legislative !lody, an executive body, and a judiciary body. All decisions t,aken by the IFC (made hy voting). are binding upon all member houses of the IFC. If a ~::hapter disregards an IFC ·ruling, jt is su!>ject to disciplinary action hy the IFC. . Classical QUARTETTO BEETHOVEN by COBB MILNER Thursday evening, a, crowded Memorial Chapel witnessed the concert ofQuartetto Beeth(wen di Roma, now on its first American tour. Four pieces of music and Tour excellent musicians proved again that classical music is alive and well with an energetic performance that set off an instantaneous standing ovation at the end, The musicians, without their tails (theirformal attire had been lost in transit), sat down and without word, started playing Beethoven's Quartett #3 in C major. I was immediately impressed with the absolute precision with which they played every note and phrase, but then i hegan to notice each member as heing unique in style and personality, Felix Ayo, the violinist, made music with his whole body, His performance was as visual and' energetic as it was musical. Alfonso Ghedin, violist. and Enzo Altobelli, cellist, we.re \cry subtle in their style, but gave every piece the emotional excitement due to it. The piano runs of Beethoven and Mendelssohn were handled impeceably by Carlo Bruno, pianist. These individuals in tjuartet produced a synergetic musical excellence that impressed all who attended. The concert culminated with the Brahms Quartet in G minor. which was performed so well. it sent the chapel into riotous uproar. The encore, a slow piece bv Shumann, announced in I ial ian, although excellent. could not dissipate any of the energy produced by the Brahms. People left the concert talking nothing hut praise for the group. I he next concert in this series is by the Netherlands Wind F nsemhle. an excellent, young, freakish group of instrumentalists in an all Mozart p photo by Ian Gluck Each house, or rather, \ ... each social fraternity, recognized as such by Union College\ is supposed to s.end two 1:epresentatives to each I FC meeting (held every other week), and fines are imposed for non~ attendance. All I FC decisions are made by a vote of the represe.nta tives, each house having one vote. The officers of the IFC are, the President (presently Don DeCesare of Sigma Chi), Vice-President- Secretary (Fred U mane of Delta Chi), and Treasurer (William Garofalo of Beta Theta Pi). These officers are elected by the representatives to the Cooncil, and candidates may be any member of the house. A candidate does not have to be an officer in his own house .. There are four Standing Committees to the IFC; the Constitutional Committee, the Fxecutive Committee, the Auditing Committee; and the Rushing Committee. Members of these committees are appointed bv the President or Executive (:ommittee (which is comprised Futz 'n by SCOTT REITER Hillel has so many things l'Oming up you could plotz. Israeli dancing is starting again. Come to Old Chapel at 7:30, this Tuesday, f'ehruary 19. for fun and exercise. We're also introducing an Israeli music session. Watch for details. Weekly Shabbat services are held at 7:00 p.m. in Strauss Lounge following Friday night , Kiddush (a.t 5:45) in the hack room in the West College dining hall. Havdallah will be at 7:45 p.m. this week, in 116 Fox. Also, there are always people walking to synagogue Saturday mornings. Anyone who wished to go to Beth Israel (we are usually offered hospitality For after services by members of the congregation), should contact Bob Kaslovsky, I 16 Fox, 370-6456 for information. In celebration of Purim, Hillel will be catering another Shabbat Kosher dinner extravaganza on F.riday night, March 8. Featured will he services, chicken (what dse) and hamentaschen. Tickets are available to see the Israeli national bssketball team play Siena College. The game wll take place one week frorv tonight on Thursdav, February 2'1 at 7:30 p.m. 'at the Washington 1\ve. JFC funds are raised by dues ·levied o11 each house. To pay for I FC social functions -- events like an I FC Weekend - special assessments are levied by majority \.ote. So far as the writer knows, no funds are taken from the Collge for any reason -- in financial matters the IFC is independent of the College, and l FC funct-io.ns are l FC -run, not College-run. _ So there you have it.. What the I FC is and what'it does. The I FC is not meant to be a \them- against~us\ type of organi;:ation, separated from the· College and holding off the College like one might a hostile animal. The I FC tries to work with the College and with the fraternities to further the nest and mutual interests of both. It organizes and sponsors campus-wide fraternity events -.,.. such as the IFC intramurals -- and controls fraternity activities. It tries to keep c! issensions and. tensions between the College and the houses to a minimum, and to provide a student governing 'bo~y responsive to the needs of fraternities on campus. . . Lev•·s Dav·e's· Mens Shop 453 State St. (downtown Schenectady). Stuff Armory in Albany. For tickets and or bus transportation. contact the Sch'dy Jewisb Community Center, 377-8803. Passover hegins Saturday night, April 6. Sunday and Monda\ are the first two days. Spring -term starts that Monday. !April X). Good timing as usual. Before starting to k'vetch, remember that hospitality for ~ hoth the first and-second Seders is available in Schenectady. · In condusion: if you are driving or ne·ed a ride to tJ-.< Israeli hoop game, want Passove1 hospitality, or wish to make a reservation for the Purim dinner, contact Scott· Reiter, 151 Da~idson, 370-6521. If vou cotdd say \no\ to such an <;pportunity, then \du bis \ioksen vi a tsibelleh mit kop in tlrert.\ (You should grow like an <llli0n with your head in the ground). TYPING at HOME Reasonable Rates CALL AFTER 5 393·2233 • •

' 'If CONCORDJENSIS, Thursday, February 14, 1974 PageS WOMENS WEEK Feb., 24 • Ma.r. 2 !'>- ~ , ~- . - ... F ·~ 8·LI.THEB Union College's Women's Caucus presents: S liNDA Y: 8 p.m. Old. Chapel. Senator Mary Ann Kruf)sak. MONDAY: l\ p.m. SSO !6 Panel: \Women and Politics\ -- State Senator Carol Beiiamy; Debbie Botch of the Governor's Women's Unit; Karen Rurstei n. 1\s~eml:>lywoman. I U ESDA Y: 4:30 Strauss Lounge. Birth Control & Healrh Care Seminar. Carol Ya·lentine of Planned Parenthood. X p.m. Strauss Lounge. Panel: \Women and Law.\ Greta I' owe rs: experienced fern in ist lawyer; Marge Karowc: senior, Albany Law; mother of six children: Meg Opalka: i·nitiated and runs paraprofessional .legal group for women in Schenectady. WEDNESDAY: 4:30 SS016 . l\'ilm Festival Freebie. \Joyce at 34,\ \Sylvia Fran, and Joy,\ \Other Women, Other W or.k,\ \Campaign \Still Altve: Women in Prisons.\ I'HURSDA Y: 9:30 a.m. & 2:30 n.m. Women's Center (Carne~ie- • Room 20 I) -- Tina Mandell, a therapist from New York City, will conduct workshops limited to 20-50 people for each workshop. Some topics of discussion might he Sex-Role Stereotyping or How to Live in a Sexist Society. 7:30p.m. SSOI6. Tina Mandell 1 speech): l·eminist Therapy. FRIDAY: 4:30 SSOI6. Panel: ··women's Studies.\ Dr. Virginia !.ester, Associate Dean of Empire St. Coli.. Dr. Sherry Penney, and two women from the Women's Studies College of the University nf Buffalo. 7:30 p.m. Old C·llapel. Gail Parker (President of Bennington ( ~ollege). SATURDAY: 2:00 p.m. Arts 202. Self-Defense Workshop, rodd Cavalier. X:30 p.m. Gym. Dance. * * * * To sign up for one of these workshops, call Mrs. Marra at the Student Activities Office: 370;.. 6118. This week is designed for everyone, men and women alike. Seniors: Time to order graduation announcements. See Mrs. Marra :in Student Activities Office. Social Disease Gets Prescription * * * * Lost: A pair of Rx sunglasses and a furry hat. Call Bill, 346-'9688. * * * * Wanted: Photographs and transparencies of Barbra Streisand taken during the filming of 'fhe Way We Were. High prices paid. Starr Publications, P.O. Box 20L Little Silver, N.J., 07739. * * * * Two year M.S. Pr.ogram· for persons motivated toward professional careers in public policy analysis, planning and management. Financial aid and summer internships. Contact: Program for Urban and Policy Sciences, State University of N.Y., Stony Brook. N.Y .. 11790. _. * * * * All those interested in running Prof. Walbek's INS simulation the weekend of March 9-10, please contact Chuck Rothman at 346- 92!1. * * * * · The C~i P~i \Happening'' has been postponed until the Spring. In place of thiS; the Brothers of Chi Psi and Delta Chi are holding a college-wide party at Chi Psi on Sat., Feb. 16 following the basketball game against Coast Guard. Music by \Polecat punch and beer. * * * * ~nglish pubs and inns, hotels and restaurants in· Wales and Scotland.are offering summer jobs to American college students. Many other opportunities are available. Interested students may obti);in application forms, job listings and descriptions and the SOS Handbook by sending their name, address, school attending, and $1 to Student Overseas -:Services, Box 5173, Santa Barbara. Calif., 93108. * * * * The Social Committee is proud to present the talented Novella Nelson,in concert on Friday, Feb. 15, in Memorial Chapel. The show. which will appeal to all, regardless of musical tastes, will begin at 8:30p.m. Tickets for Union Students will he $1.00, for non- Union $2.00. * * * * The Film Workshop will be tnaking a demonstration film on Tuesday. Feb. 19. The basics of film-making technique will be shown. Students will then be given the opportunity to make their own movi_es in t 1 he coming weeks,using Film Workshop equipment and supphes. Come to Humanities 113 at 7 p.m. * * * * . States N.Y. Assemblyman Dan Haley, \If Rosemary Woods had been Moses' secretary, we'd only have three commandments.\ * * * * For those that were not quite aware that engineering is taught at Union. and for those who beieve that engineering students spend their spare time either playing with transistors and steam tables. or polishing their slide rules, we are proud to announce that National Engineers Week wll be observed from Feb. 17 through 23. In the true festive spirit of the occasion there will be a \meeting\ of engineering students and friends on Tuesday. Feb .. J9 at 8 p.m. in the Strauss Lounge. * * * * Congratulations to Steve Bussolari. Saga's Donut Man! 'In the wee ho~m of this morning. Feb. 15th. the 25,000th doughnut of his career was put in the oven. Thank you Steve B. * * * * Student Trustees Tim McCabe and Bruce Sostek will meet with students on Feb. 21 at 10:00 p.m. in the Strauss Lounge. * * * * The Union College Karate Club is now meeting every Monday and Wednesday in Old Chapel: Mondays at 7:30. Wednesday at 2:00p.m. and Fridays in Arts 202 at 2:00p.m. * * * * Who is Guru Mahataj Ji? This award-winning film will he shown Feh. 16 at the Schenectady YWCA. 44 Washington Ave .. at 7:30 ·p.m .. admission free. * * * * Helen Hunt has found a wallet. If you have lost a wallet go to Helen Hunt for it. ' .... l.ltllllll~·lllllll~lltettiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiSI•ItllllfiiiiiiDIIIIUII0 ... 8HIIIDIIIIIHIHII•ttCt811: i . ' - . 5 1 The 'Brothers of Phi Delta Theta proudly announce the j ·,engagement of their past President: Mark W. Mindel to Miss • JoAnne Assini of Niskayuna. Miss Assini is a graduate of Ithaca i College. and is prese_!ltly employe~ by tl~e National Commercial~! Bank and Trust Company. Mr. Mmde1 w1ll be a June graduate of itlnion College. A June 30 wedding is planned. i l ' . ' I • llltlllltllllllllltillllllllllttlllllllliiiiHIHitl!l\ltlllllllllttll IIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIDIOIIIII•~ by PHYLLIS EDELMAN Whatever happened to that ramiliar phenomenon known at Union College as the Union bastard or Union bitch? Has it died out, hibernated, or maybe even graduated? First, it may be necessary to explain to those under-under- elassmen unfamiliar with the terms \Union bastard\ and \Union bitch\ just what they are. !'he \Union bastard\ has been described as that super-ego inflated male who would swagger jauntily down the halls of Rich- mond and North likE.' he was God's gift to girls. When Richmond and North proved infertile hunting grounds there \\as the weekly and sometimes bi- ~Aeekly and tri-weekly exodus to Skidmore, and when desperation drove him further afield, Russell Sage. On the other hand, the \Union hitch\ has been described as that darling, coy. tight-sweatered. tight-assed co-ed who fluttered her false eyelashes at the Union males, who outnumbered her five- to-one. \Let's he choosy\ was her Calendar Feb. 15: Musicale, the first of a · three part series featuring the \\'omen'·s Chorus, various Chamber Groups and solo performers, in Old Chapel at 12:30 p.m. Bring your lunch and rdax. · Feb. 16: Basketball, Union \s. Coast guard, Fieldhouse, S p.m. After the game it's the Edward I o:>- Blues Band at Sigma Chi. I ilm Haps: \The Heart is a l.onely Hunter,\ 7, 9:10, II :20 p.m., $1 in SSOI6. Feb. 17: Piano concert leaturing Edith Stearns, in \1emorial Chapel at 3:30 p.m. I ree for tJ nion st.udents, $3 for others. Film Haps: The Heart is a Lonely Hunter,\ 7, 9:10, 11:20 p.m., $1 in SSOI6. Feb. 18: Film. \Mexico: The Frozen Revolution\ at SSO 16, lrohl 7:30-8:30 p.m. Free admission. Women\ Caucus. Strauss Lounge. 9 p.m. Feb. 19: Social Committee Meeting, open to all, discussion on any topic. 4:30 p.m. in Hale House Lounge, Show you care! Israeli Folk Dancing, Old Chapel, 7:30 p.m. Feb. 20: Christian Bay. Chairman of Pol. Sci. at U. of I nronto, speaking on \Participatory C'iti7enship,\ Refreshments following. SSOI6, H p.m. . Feb. 21: Farouk Mawlawi, Deputy of the League of Arab States. to the U.N. and director of the Arah Information Ct:nters in the U.S. v..ill speak nn \The Arab \'iew: The Oil Crisis and the War\ at 730 ;P· m: in Old Chapel. motto. Well, ladies and gentlemen , times ha-ve changed\ .at old U. Coli. Now that all four Classes are . co-ed and the ratio of men to \\omen has decreased to thr!;e-t<J- one. the social situation here ~hould appear much more natural, right? Wrong! It appears that two new social phenomena have arisen on campus to replace the standar<l. hut w.e 11-defined roles ()[ ''bastard\ and \bitch.\ They are known as ''Couples, Inc.\ and ''The Universal Friends Ass<J- ciation.\ :\ow that women are as common-place on campus as Chester Arthur's statue. the old custom of \dating\ has become rather passe. Mt;Jh·4nd women have formed loosely knit social diques where everybody is jtist \friends.\ Jane visits Dick and Harry as casually as Dick and !larry visit Jane. TneA\Universal • Friends,\ sit around and .get drunk at their favorite bar, frut party. or table at the Rafhskellar. l.ately however, a new chara c- tcristic has developed among male-female friendships on this campus. This charactenstic cou 1d he termed the \non-involve<! in\olved\ friendship. Basically, the male partner of this frien<l- 'hip approaches the female partner with the phrase, .\You know. I really like you as a frien<l, . hut I wouldn't mind going to bed 11 ith you either.\ After a II. going to hed with a good friend mn always add a new dimcnsiGn to an old relationship. In a11 earlier ~ear. any Union· guy saying tile latter phrase to a girl would auto- matically be termed a \bastard.\ In these day of universal I riendship and woman's lib tlte phrase is either accepted <Jr rejected on face value. l·ollowing the example of 11orld politics, the men at Union College are seeking a period of non-im olvemcnt. Who wants to get \tied-down\ to one girl when there are girls all over this camp us and others fawning for their LeVfS Dave's. Mens Shop 453 State St. (downtown_ Schenectady) attentions? Besides, who wants to lose a good friend in the process of · establishing · a · \deeper\ relationship? After all, if one guy or gir.J is seen on campus more than twice with one other girl or guy. it is automatically assumed that they are now a \couple \\hether they really are or not. SNious couples are generally those males and females who have gone out steadily with each other for more than a month. After a. year of steady \coupling\ it is assumed that marriage looms in the horizon of these hot and heavy college ·romances. The latter is thought to be particularly true when the couple are both in their senior year and developing an acute case of \senioritis.\ This is a high infectious social disease among seniors who realize that next year they must make their \o\ay into the big, bad working \\ orld where the social life drops down to an occasional night out \\ ith the boys or girls or perhaps an old friend from U. Col!. If you've been going out as a serious wuple the treatment for senioritis may include engagement, the first ~tep towards marriage. If you're a senior and have tried not to \get involved\ your cure may be a final fling, trying to have as much fun as possible going out with as many guys, girls as possible. \' estiges of the old Uni.on hastard and Union bitch do exist among the new group of \Universal Friends.\ In fact, a few diehar:d Union bitches and bastards still probably exist in the pure state, left over from ~t:~terycar. On the other hand, a ddinitc soda! improvement can he noted now that \under the la\\s of Minerva we arc all hrothcrs and sisters.\ And in the 1vords of some other person. \incest is best.\ FERRO'S PHARMACY 'STUDENT DISCOUNT . 575 Nott St. 377-0510 ~9309 MOTHER FERRO'S \Featurinff Italian-American Cusine\ 1115 BARRETT ST. SCHENECTADY DI6-9554

Page6 CONCQRD!ENSTS, Thursday, February 14,1974 Concordy Sports Runners Sl,ip at Rochester Relays BY ALISON SLOAT When running on U of Rochesters indoor track, one can really appreciate their home team advantage, considering almost one half of the track runs through a tunnel together with the fact th<:~t the outside lane is up against a waH. It brings back memories of the old four cornered, cinder track that used to be such an advantage to the Dutchmen when hosting opponents. Last year the G;arnet thinclaas came away from· the Rochester Relays one half point ahead of Cortland for the win. This year Rochester literally ran away from the field, winning with 32 points. Union and Edinboro sat, tied for second, with 20 points each. addition to his part on the than 'one aU by himself. On the winning sprint team. 23rd of February the t)nion team Weightmen Bill Mowery, Jim return:;; to Rochester for the U of Dupes and AI Gilewlc7 combined R InvitationaL The following day for a 129' I W' total distance and. Dave Ricks, John DeStefano and ~econd .place hi the shot put relay AI Gilewi.cz travel to Syracuse to heind RlT. compete in an annual Fine high jumping by the pentathelon. March 9 m<;trks the lJ nion entry was accompanied by Union lnyitational, which brings disappointment for the Garnet twenty schools to Memorial team. Freshman Cal Anderson Fieldhouse to battle for winners . W?S d(sqiJalified at 5'8\ for <!_n_ ho!]o~s. illegal take off. Repeatedly- being pres~ur.ed into jumping and then heing watched by numerous judges and officials, Cal was none the less calm and smooth with every attempt. Judges ruled only nne jump at 5'6\acceptab1e. Dave Plumer and Dave Ricks soared Charlie G. blows one in. photo Leslie Steineker . ' The lone Garnet win came from the sprint medley team, Tim McCabe, Milt Herring, Freddie Pressley and Mark Mindel, with a combined time 3:51.6. over 6'2\ and 6' respectively to f\Y d contri.bute to .the rel.~y.sco.re. The L1a. rmo y one combmed hetghts \~~ · t.:h¢,.,: fhree .• , · . jump~rs w.as the.fifth place finish. · b PHIL JOHNSON of-many Keys to· Vic-tory Twice the Dutchmen were outdone for firsts by the Ro.chester spikers, in the 16 and ~ lap relays: Co-captain Mark Mindel was a standout, running OL1tstanding legs in both races, in Thts Fnday mght at 6:30 p.m., . Y · teams from Rochester. Albany, SCHENECTADY, N.Y. and Brockport come to (~versha~owedasasophomore?y Schenectady to challenge the Jml Ted1sco and forced to mtss Dutchmen of Union. Brockport last. seas~n w!th ~nee problems. superstar Charlie Drummond limon Colleges Bill Carmody has should prove a challenge to more come. into his own this winter as the floor leader of the Dutchman basketball team which last week won three times to raise its record to J 2-2. .._ .... swim Results·-- ........... /\fter sinking four straight free throws in the final 40 seconds to :. · • uQnip totlgti Hartwick 56-51, the 4xl00 Medley Relay I. Union (Magaziner. Marston. Richardson. Bernat) 4:37.6. 2. No entry 1000 Free: 1. Burbank (U) 12:19.8 2. Walter (N) 14:17.6 3. Ketcham'(U) 14:37.8 200. Free: 1. Norman (U) 2:09.3 2. Miller (N) 2: I I .3 3. West (U) 2:10.8 4. Parker (N) 50 Free: 1. Hall (N) 24.4 2. Weisburgh (U) 24.7 3. Caltabiano (N) 25.6 4. Magaziner (U) 26.1 200 I.M.: 1. Richardson (U) 2:21.5 2. Bernat (U) 2:34.5 3. Pupek (N) 4. Jeppesen (N) Diving (Required) I . Banziger (N) I 39 .20. 2. Caltabiano (N) I 27. 75. 3. Schmeckenbecber (U) q4.80, 4. Foster (U) 112.70 200 Fly: 1. Weisburgh (U) 2:53.2, 2. Foster (U) 4:23.0 100 Free: Hall (N) 55.5. 2. Norman (U) 56.5. 3. Burbank (li) 57.7; 4.:Pa:tker t:N) · 200 Back: 1. Richardson (U) 5-ll junior from Spring Lake, 2:21.6, 2. Magaziner(U) 2:31.2, 'd .. scored a career high of 22 to 3. Jeppesen ( r'J) ·4:· Banziger · : · iead 'Union past a good Trinity (N) team 77-66. ln between. the 500 Free: I;,Mjl~t;:r (N) 6:17.6, Dutchmen, using substitutes for 2. West (U) 6:22.8, 3. Walter more than half the game. coasted (N) 4. Jacobson (U) 7:2LO past Kings Point 75-51. 200 Breast: 1. Burbank (U)\ Facing Union this week will be \'43 0 2 M t (U·) 2 45 3 Hamilton Wed. (13th) and Coast ·z: . , · ~ ars on : • , ~ 3~ \'Pupek\\ (N) 2:48.4, 4. < iuard Sat. (16th) with both Jeppesen (N) games at Schenectady. - :~Ving ;{oj;tUona1) 1. Foster Carmody is averaging a modest (U) 153.10, 2. Banziger (N) l 1.1 a ga'me while shoot·ing 50 129.15. 3. Caltabiano (N) percent from the floor and an 117.45. 4. Schmeckenbecher excellent 95.5 from the free throw (ll) 105.90 line where he has converted 21- in a row after missing his first try of the season. But the strength of his game is floor leadership as he plays intelligent defense and directs the offense. A fine passer. he has 64 assists in 14 games. 4xl00 Free Relay: l. Norwich (Miller.~- Pupek, Parker. Hall) 3:48.5. 2. Union .Norman. Bernat. Farley. Marston) NT Final Score-Union ()7, Norwich4S. Help wanted Male and Female Students of all ages with or without N.Y. State Real Estate License are irrvited. to phone now for details of exciting opportunity - full or part- time. Training provided, so no experience necessary. With Carmody in the Union t'fackcourt is quick sophomore .John Denio while team leading ~corer Charlie Gugliotta is at ~:enter with sophomore Steve Kelly and ~eniot Chuck Abba at t he forwards. l'he Dutchmen will be meeting Hamilton for the second time this season, having put on a scoring ~ru rt in the final 10 minutes to heat the Continentals 70-4~ two v.eeks ago at Clinton. Hamilton, currently 6-11 and toming off a 95-SS win over Oswego. is led by flashy 5-9 guard Mark Badger who will be playing Ill front of his honietown audience. Ernie Found, usually a nemisis for Union, will open at cente~ while Marty Guy. Pedro (iarcia and freshman Brian Co(> m b s r o u n d o u t t h e Continental line up. Garcia, a 6-1 I orward, is one of the nation's premier free throw shooters with a 90 percent average from the line. Coast Guard. now 6·-7 with a home game against Wesleyan I ues.. has a reputation as a deliberate team that features a tight defense. Like Hamilton. they most likely will play Union in a tone with 6--ii Carl McGill and 6- 5 Dave Willhite underneath. Willhite is -the team's second leading scoref with an ll point BULLETIN Wednesday night, number one rated Union College Basketball Team won its 13th game of the season by thumping Hamilton 66-56. The Quintet held a slim 3 pojnt lead in the final 2 minutes but pulled away to victory in the end. Phone 518 459-7500, fJ a.m.-9 p.m. THIS WEEK IN HOME SPORTS Ask for Bob Schwartz Maurice Grauhart & Sons THIS IS HERSHEL. MAURICE .. AND WALTER GRAUBART AT GRAUBART & SONS. SCHENECTADY$ OLDEST FAMILy JEWELERS. WE VERY SELDOM ADVERTISE OUR REPAIR DE~ARTMENT BECAUSE WE ARE KEPT BUSY MOST OF THE TIME, WED LIKE TO MENTJON THAT WE OFFER A COMPLETE FtEPAIR SERVICE GN WATCHES AND JEWELRY ITEMS. OUR WA'FCH REPAIRS ARE DONE BY EFFICIENT. HIGHLy SKILLED WATCHMAKERS. AND OUR WORK IS GUARANTEED TO BE SATISFACTORY. OUR REPAIR SHOP WITH OUR OWN JEWELERS AND DIAMOND SETTERS CAN PERFORM MOST JEWELRY REPAIRS. REMEMBER GRAUBART & SONS FOR RELIABLE SERVICE. 166 JAY ST. SCHENECTADY Date Feb.16 Feb.l6 Feb.16 Feb. 20 Feb.-20 Sport Frosh BasketbaJI Varsity Basketball Swimming Frosh Basketball Varsity Basketball Dave's ~ens Shop . 453 State s~. (downtown Schenectady) Give i tillit ! r-~----------------------, I I helps.j + ~~ g ·~ g I The Bootery I I I I LlNED AND wATERPROOF I I WINTER AND HIKING BOOTS 1 I -Complete Line ofDdnce Ace.-· I 1 and other Fine Foot Apparel 1 I . 147 JAY ST. I L . . Tel. 374~7777 Hr. 9·5:30,. Th. 9-9 . . •. ----------------~--------. . ~ I Opponent R.P.I. Coast Guard Roche!!ter Utica Coli. Utica Coli. The Time 6:00pm 8:00pm 2:30pm 6:00pm 8:00pm Red Fox Inn 123 JAY ST. 'A QUIET BAR ... A PLACE TO TALK' Bud by the Pitcher <t verage. passed only by 5-10 guard Dan Deputy who hits_ at a 14 a game rate. Joel Hendrix, a 6- 1 forwa.rd and 5-10 guard Randy Br'ock round out the Cadet line up. The Union freshmen, playing \\ ithout leading scorer Al Walker who had an ankle injury, defeated the Hartwick JV's to raise its season's record to 6-1. But a late rally fell short Friday as Coach Mike Doyle's duo dropped its seC()nd d~cision of the season, a 66-61 loss to Albany Junior ( 'ollege. Pete M eo Ia. a '6-3 freshman from Schenectady was high 111an for the Union frosh both nights. with 22 and 12 points. I I he freshmen host Hamilton I l Wed., are at Siena Thurs:, and· host RPJ Sat. ..... ··. MED.· ... · SCHOOL· . . ADMISSION ·PROBLEMS? EuroMed mar oner Rl via overseas training for the session starting fall, 1974, Euromedwill assist qualif~d Amer· ican students in gaining admission to recognized overseas medical schools. And that's just the beginning. · Since the language barrier constitutes 'the .preponderate difficulty in succeect- ing at a foreign school, the Euromed . program also includes an intensive 12 week medical and conversational language course. Inandatory for all students. Five hours daily, 5 days per week (12-16 weeks) the course is given in the country where the student will attend medical school. In addition, Euromed provides stu- dents with a 12 week intensive cul- tural orientation program. with American students now studying medi· cine in that particular country serving as counselors. Senior or eraduate students currently enrolled in an American university are eligible to participate in the Eoromed program. For application and further information. phone (516) 746-2380 or write, Euromed, Ltd. 170 Old Country Road Mineola, N.Y. 11501

Trustees Continued'from p~ge 3 .;o well in \c:racking the foundation nut.\ This fact is admitted .by representatives of the . College, and the situation has heen remedied. The man who was in ·Cha'rge of reaching into the foundation' coffers has ' heen replttced by a new man, for whom tlfe College has high hopes. Union · has' developed~ an Annual Fund program of great Jepth of which only Bowdoi11 (of the schools in. the Northeast) has :1 program of comJ}al'able scope. 'l'he Annual Fund is those moneys given to the schools for general cd·ucational eX:penditures and .does not include endowment or capital gifts. Union's fund has gradually risen. bu~ from 196&. · when the school deeided te go co- ed .and when the: campus was the, scene of disorders, l)ntil 1971 the ulumni cut back substantially on their giving. . . · , The second aspect that the Hoiltd mu.sf deal with is theitwe~ttnent of its funds for ttie growth· of the endowment. The school's investment program· is [l(>or at best. The· yearly returns on investments have been running 3-5 percent. Examining the chart of the eleven schools. one takes a hleaker view of lJn.i,on's investments. The endowment of Williams College went from $5•i million in 1969~70 to $80 million for the 1971-72 period. Amherst had growth in its endowment for the three year period of 1969-72 of .$30 million. Colby College went from $19 million to $32 million. Comparable figures for Union show that in 1969-70 Union's endowment was $28.7 million; in 1970-71., it rose to $33 million; in 1971-72, it remained at $33 million. In 1972-73, Union liquidated part of its debt and its endowment dropped to $29.6 million. Even taking a building program intp account; several members of the administration readily admit that the investment program is poor. In order to. remedy this sitwUion;the Board has just this yea.r changed its investment m~n,!l.ger._ The manager of Cornell lln1V'e$sitfs portfolio, who was making II percent better returns on Cornell's endowment fund is retiring. He wanted to manage only ·his .own stocks .. that of one corporation, and also that of a small school. The school persuaded him to manage Union's investments. The endowment funds that supply a needed income from the interest and dividends they supply, it is now hoped, will work more productively.< The financial cnsfs that is llffecting the .colleges of the nation will cause Union to pull in its heft a notch, but we will survive. The maxim that the rich get richer . seems to hold true for the colleges <1f this country. A school like Union, once it gets its investment program in shape, will grow. It has an increa.singly wealthy alumni to fall on also. An example of . how wealth oreeds wealth is Harvard University. In 1969-70. its endowment was $860 million. It' rose a whopping $200 million to $1.093 billion in 1970-71, and up again still to an extraordi11ary $1.187 billion in 1971-72. lJ hi on's Board of Trustees [s not excellent, but neither is it awf1,1l. It is a conservative group, and up to this point has l>een mediocre. in its financial dealings. The Hoard is trying to improve Uni1m's position through an increa~dngly aggressive· f'undraising program as well as a now bright horizon in its financial dealing. Union is fortunate in that it is a comparatively richly ~:ndnwed school. It accep,ts a lilir.ly wea,lthy clientele who can afford to pay the increasing costs of tuition and, when other schools' admissions are experiencing a precipfto,\ls decline. Union has had an II percent increase in applicants over lilst year. ' - CONCORDIENSTS, Thursday, Fehruar,v 14, 1974 Donationa 1 Endowmant, and audioto for 1 ?0-. 1 71 & ·•n- 1 ?2 ~f Ooll~~s Complli\able to Unlon (IH.llions or Do llnrs} Colle'Ce&. Endtn~ment Total Corp. Bound- (Market Total Enrollment G1V1np; GlVl*S' Alutml ations Value) Budget 1970-7.1 Uzt1on, 1.$$? .286 .677 .187 )).01? 7.1<97 1971-72 1,.919 1,)85 .)59 .. 595 .~1? 3),064 8.096 Wesleyan ,.950 .. oae .)11 ,111 150.106 16.99?. 1,869 .985 .lOO .)49 ,219 154,151 !4. B) I Amherst 2.?1) .108 '·z6s •?06 ?9.75) 8.394 t,24J 2,422 .H1 '. )0 .690 90,98? 8.6?5 W1111ams ~.696 .1?2 tm .542 68.85? .?.721 1,200 .)95 .142 ,669 80,?86 8.716 EoWdo1P. 1,986 .0?0 .7\5 ,446 )8, 749 6,426 060 1,58\ • 084 1,.191 .165 42,02 .. 6. )) aolby 2,021 .110 .6t2 -~65 27.69) ),561 1;561 1.53) .104 • 558 • 15 )2,420 ).967 \l'r1nity 1,869 .104 .479 ,441 27.006 5.98J 1,869 ),969 .117 2.8?2 .177 )1.909 6,68? Colp-.ate ),01? .107 1.121 1,41•9 28,))8 7.68) 2,272 1,801! .124 .65) ,2:J6 29,094 6.195 H8fl111ton 1.512 .042 .889 .21) 26,226 4.166 916 2.69? .o66 1,083 .)75 28,028 4.~64 o\l.UMNI ~il VIN:; 1~ 'l'Hv t.IJNt .\L FU/!J - 11 N n hit .toi!PA~.lSuN Y.lddleburv 1,44? .oao -~o• ,87) 21.715 6.6)2 1,670 1.~97 .098 • 05 .?43 27.)9) 6.944 Occid~nte.l 1,651 .)27 .20) .411 14, 76) 6,451 1,8)5 2;666 .191 1 ,))0 ,?01 20,198 6,626 Bates 1,402 .on • 51 J .)52 12.192 ).~57 l,,J57 1.141 .092 ,475 .)77 1),27A ). )78 '68- 1 69- 1 ?0~ '71- ''?2- 1 69 1 (0 I ?l 1 '72 1 '?J •plgureB sunnlLed by t.he !'ounci.l Pol\ Flnancll.l Aid ·to Education, Amerlcan Alumni. e\ouncH Counall for PtnancU.l Al.d to Education e.nd the Natton11'1 1\sGociatlon o~ 'IndO'Ocndent Schoolu • INunv•• INTERESTED IN . POTENTIAL? INTERESTED IN GROWTH POTENTIAL? INTERESTED IN GROWTH POTENTIAL? INTERESTED IN GROWTH POTENTIAL? INTERESTED IN GROWTH POTENTIAL? INTERESTED IN GROWTH POTENTIAL? INTERESTED IN GROWTH POTfNTIAL? INTERESTED 'IN GROWTH POTENTIAL? INTERESTED IN GROWTH POTENTIAL? I lr~TERESTED iFi GROiVTil POTENTIAL? INTERESTED IN GROWTH POT'ENTIAL? INTERESTED IN GROWTH POTENTIAL? INTERESTED IN GROWTH POTENTIAL? INTERESTED IN GROWTH POTENTIAL? ! ,. ·! i~~';. • ' -.-~;~}1, ! ., ~ - ' Page 7 · Then you should consider these interesting .arul impor- tant facts about Pratt & Whitney Aircraft electricity, fo1• commercial, light-industrial and Facti: H.J.Gray, president and chief executive officer of United Aircraft Corporation, has announced an opjective to double sales through the end of the decade. Fact 2: Pratt and Whitney Aircraft is the largest divi- sion of United.Aircrajt Corporation and accounts for a major portion of total corporate sales. We expect to share in this growth ... .and. share mate- rially. Here's how and why. ! I t residential applications: With . .... even more efficient and powerful industrial gas turbines to join the almost 1,000 units already sold for generating electricity, pumping gas and pro- pelling marine vessels. If you want to prove-out your abilities at the frontiers of the state-of-the-art, P&WA is a great place for that · important personal testing. Further, our projected growth-rate suggests faster-than-usual advancement opportunities for those capable of innovative thinking. With ..•.. advanced aircraft engines gener~ 60,000 pounds of takeoff thrust that will ensure our continuing world leadership in powering the majority of commercial· air transports. With ..... pollution-free fu~l cell power plants. to help solve the world's energy needs. Pratt&, ·Whitney Aircraft··· We have attractive career opportunities for engineers and scientists in virtually every technical field. See your College Placement Office for requirements, interview dates and our descriptive brochure. Or write Mr. Len Black, Professional Placement, Pratt & Whit- ney Aircraft, East Hartford, Conn. 06108. An Equal Opportunity Employer I . Experimental units have already amassed· over 100,000 hours of operation producing INTERVIEWS February 28, 197 (· u OIVoStON OF. UN~IRCRAn.CORP, CONTACT yourCollege Placement Officer for detailed information with respect to degree requirements and to a·rrange for an interview appointment. Facilities in East Hartford, Connecticut and West Palm Beach, Florida

. I . Page8 CONCORD!ENSIS, Thursday, February 14, 1974 ~~~--------------------------------~~ UNION NUMBER ONE IN NEW YOR·K by HANK BERNSTEIN and BRIAN TUCKER • The number one basketball team in New York State, you ask? The Dutchmen of Union College, of coli rse. Winner in nine of its last ten games and sporting an outstanding 12-2 record thus far this season. Coach Scanlon's boys jumped to the top of the weeMy \lew York State Sportswriter's Association baskethaH poll. ln recent weeks the Garnet have been .. sky-high,\ being up for every game and playir:~g hall the \'.ay it should be played, hoth individually and as a team. Just thi~ past week. for example. l1 nion swepf all three of its games, including a strong upset win over 15-J Hartwick. Hartwick, considered by many to he the number one team in the ~tate. was expected to be one of the toughest opponents for the I )utchmen this season. As the teams warmed up in Memorial Fieldhouse before the game, the near capacity crowd seemed in a we of the much taller and ~tronger Hartwick squad. Yet from the opening tipoff, the Ciarnet were able to overcome their obvious disadvantage, playing a deliberate offensive game. Evidently we had been well ~couted, as the Hartwick zone his squad to \play the way you've been playing. The shots will fall. Rel'ax and put the ball in the basket.\ I' he lJ nion cagers did just that a~ they played intelligent offense. hit pressure shots, played tough \[) and, ama7ingly, out- rehounded• the taller Waniors. 32- .10. Chuck Abba hit his 'last 4 ~hots and according to Scanlon, \He does it all. There's no lJUestion he's at the top of his gamt:.\ Billy Carmody, shooting mer 95 percent I rom the charity ,tripe. sank hoth ends of 2 crucial llne aNd one situations in the last wcond~ to insure the final victpry. I his brought the ecstatic crowd to ih feet as the final buzzer .,ounded. :'>;umber lour ranked l nion had defeated number three ranked Hartwick. I· riday the Merchant Marines sailed into Memorial Fieldhouse and were sunk 75-51 as the reserves saw most of the action. I he starting five ran out to a healthy lead and were replaced \\ith more than ten minutes remaining in the first half as Scanlon emptied his bench. Again. the first team came on ~trong in the second half, holding Kings' Point to only 2 points in the lirst !I minutes. Led by Willy Henson and \Bones\ Yiniar. the reserves played well and coasted to the final margin. Saturday night a much l·or much of the game, t:he final outcome was in doubt as the \ isitors ran up a 16,!\ bulge early in the first half. Having played three games in the last four nights. l: nwn showed its weariness. The Jef.ens.e · playt:d rather conservatively-not deAying passes und less gambling,and allowed the offensively minded Trinity ~LJuad to ~c~lre from the outside. However. \'..ith hot hands from hoth \Mody\ and (iugl.iotta, ..,trong rebounding lrom \Leroy\ Kell~, Denio's tough defense on I rinity\ leading scorer and another fine ptt.rformance hy \'Steady-Eddy\ Abba. the Ga.rnet broke open a close game and won handily. 77-66. As a result of· these last three ~trong showings, Union has earned its numbe.r one ranking. Coach Scanlon's yu,intet drew 4 out of 5 possible first place votes to poll 49 points and outdistance runner-up Rochester. who only accumulated JH points. The llutchmcn played a strong lhtfllilton club last night and with a tough contest against the Coast (iuard Academy on Saturday, Coach Scanlon and hi:; team hope to sec everyone at the Fieldhouse. · ~upporting the number one team in :'-Je\'.- York Stale. \Beaner\ skies. photo credit Bill Erichson ·caused many problems. They were big, mobile, and tough to penetrate. Again Coach Scanlon called upon \Beaner\ Combs, 'Ahom he refers to a-s \just like a starter himself,\ to drop a few hombs on the tight defense and ~catter Hartwick's forces enough to allow Charlie Gugliotta to move inside and rack up 15 points. Playing well, the Dutchmen still found themselves down hy 4 at the half. Taking his troops to the locker room, Scanlon simply impressed upon improved Trinity club came to !Inion boasting a IJ-4 reco~d. \ r.._ Coach Art Lawrence annotlfiCed today that Baseball practice for Spring 1974 will begin in the rieldhouse for all candidates. Swimmers Drown Norwich 67-45 Psyrhes at rest. including Freshmen, Monday. I ebruary I !I at I :JO p.m. All byDA VE HElLBERG' those interested must attend. Last Saturday, the Union Swim m==li\~=:~IIDA~''=--=•~·==-\\- I ea m secured an encouraging \ ictorv over Vermont based \:orwich College, 67-45. This Was the Garnets' second victory against three losses. photo credit Leslie Steineker lwo Tom Terrifies, Tom Richardson and Tom Burbank. \'.e.re the individual stars in this meet. Richardson won twice -- in the 200 yard backstroke and the 200 vard individual medley. Burba~k compounded Norwichs' trouble by ca.pturing the 200 yard breaststroke and enduring to Frosh Hoop lhc Freshman basketball Team nea rlv made a miraculous rally hiday night versus the Junior College of Albany as they reduced a 12-pt. lead down to J-pts. in the final minute but just fell short hy a score of 66-61. UNION COLLEGE BASKETBALL STATISTICS - 14 GAMES !'heir record now at 5-2, the 1-rosh got 12 pts. from Peter Meola. 10 each from Clete McLaughlin. AI Walker. and Rich Gorman while Gary Borgese chipped in 6 pts. WON: 12 LOST: 2 Player G FGA FG o/o FT A FT % Reb. Asst. Gu!!liotta. Charlie 14 16X 91 54.2 91 61 67.0 131 21 Jr.. Huntin!!ton Sta .. N.Y. Carmody. Bill 14 136 67 49.4 22 21 Jr .. Sprinj.! Lake. N.J. Kellv. Steve 14 145 63 43.4 27 19 So .. Pt. Washin,llton. N.Y. Ahha. Chuck 14 127 57 44.9 30 22 Sr .. Schenectadv. N.Y. Denio. John 14 122 51 41.8 10 4 So .. Melrose. N.Y. Comhs. Tom 14 61 30 49.2 10 7 Sr.. Penfield. N.Y. Raymond. Jon R 28 12 42.9 10 6 So .. Milford. N.H. Dillon. I .ike I I 26 R 30.8 9 6 Sr .. Worcester. Mass. Others I I Union 14 Opponents 14 63 28 44.4 43 29 876 407 46.42 521 75 813 340 41.82 3it.46 95.5 29 64 70.4 103 18 73.3 62 31 40.0 32 40 70.0 40 19 60.0 20 4 66.7 4 12 67.4 46 21 69.4 556 231 62.7 550 131 Pts. Avg. 243 17.4 155 I 1.1 145 10.4 136 9.7 106 7.6 67 4.8 30 3.8 22 2.0 85 7.7 989 70.6 826 59.0 A busy week lies ahead as th~y (.~teed Hamilton last night, will lace Siena tonight: RPI Saturday. and Utica next Wednesday. ' ~~~ .\ll I .(;. _\ -=-k . \ ·ES'' CZ; -~ '1\tl~\ \\\I · Pizzeria -1) 783 ALBANY ST. NO DELIVERY CHARGE W!TH TWO PTZZAS WE DELIVEK UNTIL MIDNIGHT Call374-56qO linish the 1000 yard fn;estyle ahead of, the pack. Other individual winners were Mark hlster in the optional di\Ving. season for the \s.plendid- splashers\ will be on Saturday agaii1st a very tough team from the University of Rochester. • Coach Magee predicts that the Rich :'>Jorman in the 200 yard Dutcllmen will do well because he lreestvle and Mitch Weisburgh in has instructed them to try and the 2t)O varcl hutterflv. better the times of all the 1-inall~ the 400 yard medley currently held ·union College relay te~m (Rob Magaziner. Jeff -,wim records. It will definitely be Mal·ston, Dave Bernat and an exciting home finale. Richardson) won by forfeit. Following is a summary of the Few people are aware of the first place finishes by the problems that have plagued the members of the swim team thus Dutchmen swimmers this year. rar:.. , I he most apparent is the scarsity <if people who have sacrificed Individual ~their time to practice and 1om Richardson events ~ participate in the meets. Mark Foster (diving) Secondly. a layoff of more than a j om Burbank ·month due to the extended Mitch Weisburgh \acation was a huge handicap fGr Iva Schmeckenbecher manv of the mermen because Dave Bernat -,win;ming is highly competiti-ve Hich Norman and demands peak conditioning. Keith .Jacobson '\cvcrtheless. the swim team Jeff Marston should he given ample credit fm .Htrh Maga 1 iner the hard work and spirit they Bill West huve displayed throughout the ,C'hris Ketcham ~cason. I he final home appeanince this Picture Pe~fect? 2 \) Relays J j • 4 3 4 I I. 2 2 I photo credit Leslie Steineker - - . .) ' . . .. i! ••• ' ), I f, ,, .

Page 8 CONCORD!ENSJS, Thursda.P, Fehruary 14, 197( ~~~------------------------------~~~ UNION NUMBER ONE IN NEW YORK by HANK BERNSTEIN and BRIAN TUCKER I he number one basket ball team in :\ew York State, you ask? I he Dutchmen of Union College. of cour~e. Winner in nine tlf its last ten games and sporting an outstanding: 12-2 record the~s Jar this season. Coach Scanlon\ hoys jumped to the top of the \\t:ek~:­ '\e\\ York State Sports'Ariter'~ ·\-,~tlciation hash·thall pull. In recent \\eek~ the (iarnet ha\e heen \-.k~-high.\ hcing: up ltH L·\er~ game and pla~tng: hall the ''<~~ it should he pla~eu. huth indi\iduall~ and as a t<:<tlll. .lust thi-, past v.eeL lor L'Xampk. l nion s\H:pt all three nf ih f!<tllll.:s, in~:llHhng a -.troll!( up't:t \\J!l o\\:r l'i-3 llart\\Jd. .. his squad to \play the way you'n been playing. The shots will fall. Relax and put the hall 111 the basket.\ I he l'nilln eagers did just that as they played intelligent offense. hit pressure !>hots, played tough \!) and, ama;ingly. out- n:hmmdl'd the taller \\'arriors . .\2- \(J. Chuck 1\hha hit his last 4 shnh and according to Scanlon. \lh: dues rt all. I here's no queslllHl he\ at the tup of hi' ).!<IlllL' ... Brll~ ( ·armod~. ,IJo(rtmg <l\L'I LJ'i perl'L'Ilt lnllll tilt' l·hant~ -..1 rrpc. sank htlt h end!> nf 2 tTucral ''IlL' and llllL' 'rtuatll>ns rn the last \L'Ctllld-.. Ill lfl\lll'l' tllL' I ina[ \IL't>lr\. I hr' hrtlll!!ht tht• ec,tatic Cfll\\d to '\ kL·t ,t.., the l111al hU//l'r '\II mkd. \ umhl'r four rankL·d l nion had defeated numher threL· ran kl'd I! art \\Ick. I nda) the \1en:hant Marines saik·d into \kmorial f·ieldlmu:-.e it nd \HTC -.unk 75-5 I as the JL'SCI'\L's sa\\ mm,t ol the action. !he ,t;rrting li\t' ran out to a health:- lead anti \\ere replaced \\ith mnre than teN mirmtes IL'Illaining in the first hall a' \canlon emptil'd hi' hench. \ptin. the lir~t team came on strong in the 't.:cnnd half. holding King,' Point to only 2 points in t h.: fir:-.t X minute,. l.eJ by \Vill:- llemon and \Hone>\ \'iniar. tht: Jesene' played V>ell and wa~ted to the final margin. Saturday night a much hn much of the game. the final outcome was in doubt as the 'rSitor:-. ran up a lf>-X bulge early in the first half. llaving: played three games in the last four nights. I mon sho\\t:d its wearint:ss. I he dt•fenst' rla~cd rather conser\ ~Hi\ L'ly-not dcnyi ng passes <tnd k·,, gamhhng-a nd allo\\ed the ofknsiH·I:- mintkd I rinity -.quad to ~core !rom the outside. llt>\\t'\t:r. \\ith ltl)t hitnds from hoth \\loJ:-\ and ( iugliotta. 'trong It· hounding from '\I no~\ 1\elh. l knio'-. toLigh ut.:lemL· t>ll lrintt!'' leading -.,l·ort:r and .tlll>!ilt·t !tnt· ptTiormance h: \Stt'itd~ -1 dd\ .. ·\hha. tht: <•<tint'! htokt• tlflL'Il ii dthl' 1-!il me and \\on handil:. 77-61'. \-. a re:-.ult of thl'sl' Jaq thrL'L' strong shtl'Aings. l nion ha-, l'arncd its numbt.:r nne ranking. ( 'oach Scanlon\ quintet drt:\\ -+ <lltt ol 5 pos-.ihle lirst place \otes to pnll 4Y points and <>Utdistanc.:e 1 un lll'r-up R ocht•s ter. \\ lw on!: <tcc.:umulated 3X points. I he I Jutchmen played a 'trong Hamilton duh last night and \\ith a tough cnntest ag:aimt the Coast ( iuard !\eadem~ on Saturday. Cuach Scanlon and his team hope to -,ee ocr: one at the I· ieldlwuse. ~uprorting: the numher nne team in '\e'A York State. \Beaner\ skies. photo credit Bill Erichson llart\\Jck. l\<llhidned l)\ man\ to he the numha on<: tt:am tn the -,tate. v.as e.\pn:ted hl he one uf the toughest oppunents fnr the I )ut~:hrm:n this season. t\s tht• teams \\armed up in \1emorial I ieldhouse he fore the game, the m:ar ~:apac.:ity nowd seemed in ;me of the much taller and stronger Hart\\ ick sLJuad. Yet f rum the opening t ipofL the < ia rnet \'ere a hie to overcome their oh\ ious disadvantage. playing a deliberate offemive game. f\ identl:_; we had heen \\ell s~:outed. as the Hartv.ick lone cau~ed many problems. They \\ere hig, mobile, and tough to penetrate. Again Coach Scanlon called upon \Beaner\ Comhs. \\hom he refers to a-s \'just like a ~tarter himself,\ to drop a few homhs on the tight defense and s~:atter Hartwick's forces enough to allo'A Charlie Gugliotta to mme insidt: and rack up 15 poinb. Playing: \.\ell. the I )utc.:hmen still found themselves tiown hy 4 at the half. ·laking his troops to the locker room. Scanlon simply impressed upon tmrro\ed I rinity cluh c;1me to I· n ion hoasting a 1.~-4 record. '? 'Co= ( ·om:h Art l.a v.rence announced toda! tliat Haseball practice lor \pring IY74 v.ill begin in the I icldhou:-.e for all candidates. rncluding Freshmen, Monday. I cbruar~ I X at I :JO p.m. All those interested must attend. Swimmers Drown Norwich 67-45 hyDA VE HEIIJtERG' I ast Saturday. the lJ nion Swim ;;;;r;=;;:;:;l\llt;;:=:ar:JIJ*4::==11Z\141====rtM I ea m secured an c ncou rag: I ng: \ ictory o\er \'ermDnt ba:-.etl \of\\ ieh College. 6 7-45. I hi~ \'a~ the Ciarncts' second \ ictory against three lo:-.sc~. Psrf'hes at re.~ t. rhoto credit Leslie Steineker l'NION COLLEGE BASKETBALL STATISTICS- 14 (;,\:\1ES WON: 12 I.OST: 2 Player c; FGA FG ( iul!liotta. Cha r!Je 14 !I) X 91 .Jr. fluntm~tnn Sta . '\ Y o/r FT A FT o/c Reb. Asst. )4 2 9 I n I n 7 0 111 2 I ( 'armo(h. Bill 14 Uti (, 7 49.4 22 21 lr. Sprmi! l akc. '\.I Kt'ih.'-'tc\l' 14 !45 nJ 4~.4 27 !9 '-'\ . Pt Wa,hm~ton. '\ Y 1\hha. Chuck 14 1::'7 57 44.LJ :w 22 Sr. '-'cht?nectad\. '\ Y. Dcnrn . .John 14 122 ) 1 4l.X 10 4 So. \l!clrn~e. '\ Y. Cnmh'. I nm 14 Sr. Penfield.'\ Y Ravmond . .Jon X So. Milford. '\.H. Dillon. I ike I I Sr.. Wnrcc\lcr. Ma'' Other' II Union 14 Opponents 14 f> l ~0 49.2 I 0 7 2X 12 42.9 IO 6 f>.:l 2X 44.4 43 29 876 407 46.42 521 75 813 340 41.82 331 46 95 5 70.4 7.<.3 40.0 70.0 f>O.O M.7 f, 7.4 69.4 62.7 to~ IX 112 .\I J2 40 40 19 20 4 4 12 41) 21 556 231 550 131 Pts. Av~. 24:1 17.4 155 145 n7 .~D 22 R5 9S9 826 II.! 10.4 9.7 7.f> 4.X 2.0 7.7 7Cl.6 59.0 I \\ o lorn I errifics. I om Richardson and lorn Hurhank. \\<;:re the indi1.rdual 'tars rn till, meet. Richardson 'Aoll tWice 111 the 200 :arJ hacbtrokc and the 200 ~aru mdi,idual metlle~. Hurhank compounded \ or\\ichs' trouble h~ ca-pturing: the 200 vard hr~·a~t-.troh· <Jnd enduring to Frosh Hoop I he l·,·eshman baskethall learn near!\ made a miraculous rail\ I rid<;~ night \t:rsus the .Junio-r ( ·ullt::g:L' of Alban~ a~ the::; reduced \ 12-pt. lt:atl d(mn to 3-pt,. in the linal minute hut ju~t tell \hort h~ d \CO rL' of 66-f> I. I heir record no\\ at 5-2. the I rosh got 12 pt~. lrorn Peter \leola. 10 each from Clete \1c.:l aughlin. ·\I \\.'alker. and Rid! (iurman \\hilc (iary Borg:e'e dlipped in (, rts. \ husy \\eck lies ahead as they laced Hamilton lmt night. \\ill lace Siena tonight. RPI Saturday. anu l'tica next Wednesday. l, ~E _V?~ L'' , ... ES'I c~ -JJ ~\ttN\ </\\'I Pizzeria 4!J 783 ALBANY ST. NO DEJJVERY CHARGE WITH TWO PIZZAS WE DELIVI!:I< UNTIL MIDNIGHT Call 374-5()00 1 ini1h <the \ilea~ llf tndr1·idual ltl\tt.:r rn I UOO yard freestyle the pack. Other wi nnen, 'Acre Mark the optional diving. 1\rch \or man Hl the 200 yard I il'L'Ii:!Il? <tnJ :-..!itch Weishurgh in the ~00 1a rd hutterfly. I 1nal!\ the 400 yard medley rdm te.<tm !R<lh \1aga;iner . .Jeff \lar-..tun. lhne Bernat and J{ich.;anl \rn) \l.nn h~ 1 orfeit. lt·\1 p~ople an· a\\are of the proh lelll!> that h<t\L' rJagued thL· llutL·hn:!L'll 'wimmers this ye<tr. I he Illll-\1 apparent i~ thl· scarsity ( rl r\e\ ]lk \\ ho ha \L' ~acri riceJ their <time to practice and part~nrate rn the mel't-. <..,tTnnJ[). a layoff of more than a Tllon£11 due Ill the extended \ite<iti\n ~~<Is d huge handicap lor IlliJil~ c::ll the lllt:rmt·n because '\ ill\illll n~ i' high!:- competiti\e i!IHI -c.lcr 11anJ, peak ~:onditioning. \t:\n:rthek-.s. the S\\im team should h~ ,givt:n ample nedit for thL' hiird v.ork and ~pirit thl'y lla \~ tl isplayc-tl throughout the \L'<I~I )[]. !he 1-inal l1Dl11l' appcaran~:e thi> Picture Per{eft? 'cason for the \srlcndid- 'Piasher'\ will he on Saturday against a 1ery tough team from the l'ni\er~ity of Rochester. ( ·oach Magee predicts that the Dutchmen \\ill do well hec.:ause he ha-. instructed them to try and better the times of all the currently held 1·ninn College ,\1 im records. It \\ill definitely he iiTl t'Xciting home finale. I olltming is a 'ummary ol the lirst place finishes hy the mc·ruhn, llf thl' s\\im team thus lar: lndt\ idual c\t'llh I Pill R ic.:ha rdson \lark hl\ler (di\ing) I om Burhank Relays .\ \!itch Weishurgh I '<l Schmcckenhecher I )a\e Bernat R tc h '\ o rma n 1\. cit h .lacohson kl I \1 arston R tlh \1ag<viner !~til \\'t·st ( ·hris KL'Icham .I .., photo credit Leslie Steineker 3 4 I I .., - • (1. . ·- ·' . t· \} \

. ;; < • (I .. • ' I. ' t I ,, / There will be a forum on grading ~ystems Monday night at S p~m. in the Hale :House Student Lounge. · In attendanee will be Professors .Ludwig, Well~., DOLLAR BILL CONTEST · S5aife; Craig, ~tnd Dea 0 Lu:htermail. \It's more than a game. It's an institution.\ Thomas Hughes Please send all entries to the Concordy Office. Voi.103,-·No. 12 Thursday, February 21, 1974 35 cents Social Committee - . ' - . .. . Social Stabbed by Steering b;Y ,PETE SOBOL Of all the group& on this campus the Social Committ~e probably r{:ceives the most complaints. The Committee comprises twelve Inemlrers. In- order to become one of those members, the I)rospective socialite must submit an application to the Committee on Cortunittee, who then retire to Asgaard to deliberate. The Social Committee has a Chairman and an Assistant Chairman. The other members are supposed to provide input from the campus. They also assist with the manual labor involved with a production, such as moving kegs, arranging sound systems, and . of course, cleaning up afterwards. 1 Choosing an Artist According to Peggy Miller, Social Committee Chairwoman. the process of bringing entertainment to the campus proceeds in the following way: (q. Members of the Committee who are in touch with show business contacts make a list of available performers. Artists usually take jobs as part of a tour; it is rare one will come ail the way to Schenectady for one show. - HiJting the Performer the pertormers, who then sing it and send it back to us. With the mail the way it is, ·this process could take weeks. When Ike and Tina showed up here, Union had not as yet 'recei·ved the countersigned contract. The Social Committee coald not possibly know that l:ke and Tina had erased changes which had been made in the contract over the phone before it had been signed. Miller stated that if she had known the· contract had become inva1ltl,l 1 Jilre and Tina could have '6een tossed out and not paid, or ef~~r,'on-the-spot bargaining · migJtti have taken place. Not knowing the contract to\ be invalid, tl;le Social Committee had to stick to their end. and wen; concerned about going to court if Ike and Tina did not keep theirs. Dan Miley, sound manager for the Committee, has suggested that when large amounts of money .are being placed on the line for a concert, the little moz:e it would cost to Pl1Y a lawyer to handle the contractual end would• be good insurance against this sort of thing- happening again. Attracting an Audience Steering Committee President Larry Brown has recommended the dissolution of the Social Com\ mittee. Brown's recommendation came in the wake of growing disenchantment with Social Committee sponsored activities. lhe most recent Social Committee concert, given by Novella Nelson, was attended by a mere 73 people. The co.nfrontation concerning the survival of the Social Committee emerged from discussion at the Steering Committee meeting held on Tuesday, Feb. 19. The Social Committee itself has. suffered from internal chaos. S.ocial Committee member Dan Miley stated, \I've been unhappy with the way it's been run. I think a lot of business has been conducted illegally. The Chairman makes arrangements withoug informing us. It's been a one-rna n, or one-woman operation. The Committee's Chairman, Peggy Miller, was not present at the meeting. Kelly Newton, also a Social Committee member said, \If you elimil')ate the Social Com mittee, you had better find something in its place.\ Steering Committee V.P. Mark Jeff Wis~ff and Pemzv Miller (~eated on cour:h) listeninK to SUK!(esaons. Young claimed, \The options available to us leave abolition as almost the only alternative.\ Young declined to offer ·a replacement for Social Committee functions. Discussion focused on members of the committee who were not serving to the benefit of the group. \Several members don't even show up for meetings,\ said Miley. · Newton added, \We have no recourse to get people off our committee.\ While the Committee photo by Leslie Steineker on Committees makes appointments, there . presently exists no clear. way of forcing people from the commiuees which they serve. (2) When this list is made up, the Coriunihee members aecide . whom to try to bring to campus; the criteria for the choice are price, name, and quality of the entertainment. · Many· of the difficulties in dealing with the \ta'lent 1 ' come in here. Few performers are willing to sign a centract for a date even a few mon'ths o-ff; they are afraid of passing up a possibility· for a better paying show somewhere else for the same date. Also, the performers make stipulations about their visits to campus which often makes what originally seem to be a good deal turn out to be a disaster. Artists often demand· a certain light company, sound company and warm~up act~ all which raise their price considerably. (3) Publicity. The Grateful Dead could be here, but if no one knew, no one would come. Miller stated . .that on many occasions, more mon(.'!y is received from ticket sales to town residents than from sales to Union students; consequently, publicity iri town is very important. Also at this stage comes the need to determine how ·much refreshments will be Mad Scientists at Work Steering Committee member John Dolan initiated the first suggestion of action. \The Social Committee is among the most prestigious committees on campus because it gets the most applicants. Necessity exists_ for some organization to make sure things run smoothly.\ The possibilities of review of committee appointments and of elimination of the Social Committee are issues which should come to a head at an open Steering Committee Meeting on Monday. March 4, at 7 p.m. m Hale House Student Lounge. Let us assume that we get past thi!l point· in the negotiations, Union's agent contacts the performer's agent, and the contracts are drawn up. We sign our version and mail a copy to necessary which always requires a guess. Keeping the Peace (4) Performance night, the members'O'f the Social Committee must make sure that the talent is here on time; This may entail acting as chauffeurs. Performance night also requires the hiring of four campus policemen to patrol Memorial Chapel. .According to Miller, despite the fact that the guards do not en~er the Chapel, - and are ineffective in preventing people freUT\ in the stage d.oor, Klein~,head.of Security for Union. fi'f&ists tl'tat they be hired. They are paid by the Social __ Committee. The restrictive size. -- 1,000 Continued on page 4 · · by DAVID NEIFELD Many professors in Union's Chemistry Departme.nt are involved m research and experiment. . The first professor interviewed was Leslie Hull. Professor Hull, an organic chemist, is currently engaged in observing mechanisms of reaction of ozone with· certain organic compounds. His goal is to find out how ozone, a gas found in the earth's atmosphere, oxidizes the hydrocarbons that automobiles emit as exhaust; it ,is this chemical combination which produces smog. One implication is that if ozone reacts with these emissions, the ozo.ne content of the atmosphere will decrease, leaving us _more vulnerable to ultra-violet rays. Professor Hull's work requires him to work at extremely lbw temperatures to observe the reactions. Professor Robert Schaefer has With competition for explosions evet:v week, the methanol bottle these organic students Ia h. becomin~ fierce, and more know how to dress for organic photo by Cliff Langweiler a graduate student working with him on what he terms \ion- selective analysis.\ This is a process which allows him to correctly analyze the lead content of standard paint chips. Since law requires that the lead content of these paint chips be below a certain percentage, this is a means of finding the exact lead content. He Is also planning research for the future in the field of biochemical analysis of certain amino acids for possible use as germicides. Professor Herbert Sutter, a physical chemist, explained his major interest as interactions of molecules. His current work involves gases, and how the properties of gases are affected by molecular interactions. Dr. Sutter's long-range plans include studying the practical aspects of steam, alchohol, and other hydrogen-bonded gases. Professor Charles Weick is now working in the field of metal-ion chemistry, concentrating on the structure of ~ompounds and the rates these compounds react. At the present time. he is working with gold, whose structure is sufficiently bulky to slow down the reaction rate for ~Professor Weick to observe. He is also interested in how these bulky structures slow down these &.ontinued on page 7 On February 3, 1974 five Union members were inducted into Tau Beta Pi. They are: Paul Atcheson, EE 74; Demetrios Maroulis, EE 74; Donald Mirate, EE 74; Thomas Baca. ME 75; and Axel Rose, EE 75. The following students are alsc members, having been inducted ir previous years. t\lfred Lemmo, ME 74; Waynt Kcseherg, EE 74; Gary Merz, Ml 74: David Van Arnam CE 74: am. John Foster. EE 74. BULLETIN Tl!ESDAY, FEB. 19: 5:12 p.m. Steering Committee President Larry Brown proposes establishing a lilm subcommittee of the Social Committee. 5:16 p.m. Steering Committee President Larry lkown proposes abolition of th~ Social Committee. STUDENT (;OVERNMENT MARCHES New Dean Edward J. Craig Chairman of the Electrical Engineering Department, has been appointed to fill the newly-created position of Associate Dean of the Faculty, effective July I, 1974. He sees his new role as one of repr~senting the engineering department, especially in trustee communications. Regarding it as his main duty \to fuse the efforts of the engineering department,\ Craig also hopes to encourage new programs. He feels the need for new transdisciplinary programs, a·nd 'notes that there is too much specialization both within his department and the whole school. He explains that transdisciplinary studies at Union have roots in the engineering department, and since, the concept has spread. Craig hopes to coordinate programs within the science center and also with other departments. Craig graduated from Union College in 1948, and ·has been a member of the faculty for l~ years.

i; 7fl, I \ jt: . \ ' ·- il ··~ . . '~· . l' . t •I t \} . There will be a forum on grading systems Monday night at 8 p.m. in the Hale House Student Loun~e. DOLLAR BILl CONTEST In attendance will be Professors Ludwig, Wells, Scaife. Craig, and Dean Lichterman. \It's more than a game. It's an institution.\ Thomas Hughes Please send all entries to the Concordy Office. Vol. 163, No. 12 Thursday, February 21, 1974 35 cents Social Committee Social Stabbed by Steering by PETE SOBOL Of all the groups on this campus the Social Committee probably receives the most complaints. The Committee comprises twelve members. In order to become one of those members. the prospective socialite must stibmit an application to the Committee on Committee. who then retire to Asgaard to deliberate. The Socia:! Committee has a Chairman and an Assistant Cl1airman. The other members are supposed to provide input from the campus. They also assist with the manual labor involved with a production. such as moving kegs. arranging sol!lnd systems. and of course. cleaning u I\ afterwards. Chaosing an Artist According to Peggy Miller. Social Committee Chairwoman. the process of bringing entertainment to the campus proceeds in the following way: (I) Members of the Committee '-\'ho are in touch with show husincss contacts make a list of available performers. Artists usually take jobs as part of a tour: it is rare one will come all the way to Schenectady for one show. Hiring the Performer the performers. who thlen sing it and send it back to us. W j,th the mail the way it is, this process could take weeks. When Ike amd Tina showed up here. Union had not as yet received the countersigned contract. The Social Committee could not possibly know that Ike and Tina had erased changes which had heen made iH the contract over the phone before it had been ... igned. Miller stated that if she had known the contract had become invalid. ·Ike and Tina could have !Seen tossed out and not paid. or else on-the-spot bargaini.r~g might' have taken place. Not knowing the contract to be invalid. the Social Committee had to stick to their end. and were concerned about going to court if Ike and Tina did not keep theirs. Dan Miley. sound manager for the Committee. has suggested that when large amounts of money are heing placed on the line for a concert. the little more it would cost to pay a lawyer to handle the contractual end would be good insurance against this sort of thing happening again. Attracting an Audience Steering Committee Presidmt Larry Brown has recommended the dissolution of the Social Com- mittee. Brown's recommeudation came in the wake of growing disenchantment with Social Committee sponsored activities. The most recent Social Committee concert, given by ~ ovella Nelson, was attended .by a mere 7 3 people. The confrontation concerning the survival of the Social Committee emerged fro.m di~cussion at the Steering Committee meeting held on Tuesday, reb. 19. The Social Committee ibelf has suffered from internal chaos. Social Committee member Dan Miley stated. \I've been unha('l('lY with the way it's been run. I think a lot of business has been coHducted illegally. The Chairman makes arrangements withoug informing us. It's been a one-man, operation. or one-woman The Committee's Chairman. Peggy Miller, was not present at the meeting. Kelly Newton, also a Social Committee member said. \( f you eliminate the Social Com mittee. you had better find something in its place.\ Steering Committee V.P. Mark Jeff Wisoff and PeKg_l' Miller (w'ated on couch) listening to suggestions. Young claimed. \The options available to us leave abolition as almost the only alternative.\ Young declined to offer ·a replacement for Social Committee functions. Discussion focused on members of the committee who were not ;erving to the benefit of the group. \Several members don't even show up for meetings.\ said Miley. ~ewton added. \We have no recourse to get people off our committee.\ While the Committee photo hy Leslie Steineker on Committees appointments, there exists no dear wav people from the· which they serve. makes presently of forcing committees Steering Committee member John Dolan initiated the first :-.uggestion of action. \The Social Committee is among the most prestigious committees on cam pus became it gets the most applicants. Necessity exists for some organitation to make sure things run smoothly.\ The possibilities of review of ( 2) When this list is made up. the Committee members decide whom to try to bring to campus: the criteria for the choice are price. name. and quality of the entertainment. Many of the difficulties in dealing with the \talent\ come in here. Few performers are willing to sign a contract for a date even a few months off: they are afraid of passing up a possibility for a better paying show somewhere else for the same date. Also. the performers make stipulations about their visits to campus which often makes what originally seem to be a good deal turn out to be a disaster. Artists often demand a certain light company. sound company and warm-up act; all which raise their price considerably. (3) Publicity. The Grateful Dead could be here, but if no one knew. no one would come. Miller stated that on many occasions. more money is received from ticket sales to town residents than from sales to Union students: consequently. publicity in town is very important. Also at this stage comes the need to determine how much refreshments will be necessary which always requires a guess. Mad Scientists at Work committee appointments and of elimination of the Social Committee are issues which ... hould come to a head at an open Steering Committee Meeting on Monday. March 4, at 7 p.m. m Hale House Student Lounge. Let us assume that we get past this point in the negotiations. Union's agent contacts the performer's agent. and the contracts are drawn up. We sign our version and mail a copy to Keeping the Peace (4) Performance night. the members of the Social Committee must make sure that the talent is here on time: This may entail acting as chauffeurs. Performance night also requires the hiring of four campus policemen to patrol Memorial Chapel. According to Miller. despite the fact that the guards do not enter the Chapel. and are ineffective in preventing people from sneaking in the stage door. Kleinkauf, head of Security for Union, insists that they be hired. They are paid by the Social Committee. The restrictive size -- I ,000 Continued on page 4 by DAVID NEIFELD Many professors in Union's Chemistry Department are involved m research and experiment. The first professor interviewed was Leslie Hull. Professor Hull. an organic chemist. is currently engaged in observing mechanisms of reaction of ozone with- certain organic compounds. His goal is to find out how ozone, a gas fou11d m the earth's atmosphere, oxidizes the hydrocarbons that automobiles emit as exhaust; it is this chemical combination which produces smog. One implication is that if ozone reacts with these emissions. the ozone content of the atmosphere will decrease. leaving us more vulnerable to ultra-violet rays. Professor Hull's work requires him to work at extremely !'ow temperatures to observe the reactions. Professor Robert Schaefer has With competition for explosions every week, the methanol hottle these organic students Ia h. hecomim~ fierce. and more know how to dress for organic photo by Cliff ·Langweiler a graduate student working with him on what he terms \ion- selective analysis.\ This is a process which allows him to correctly analy1e the lead content of standard paint chips. Since law requires that the lead content of these paint chips be below a certain percentage. this is a means of finding the exact lead content. He is also planning research for the future in the field of biochemical analysis of certain amino acids for possible use as germicides. Professor Herbert Sutter. a physical chemist. explained his major interest as interactions of molecules. His current work involves gases. and how the properties of gases are affected bv molecular interactions. o;, Sutter's long-range plans include studying the practical aspects of steam. alchohol. and other hydrogen-bonded gases. Professor Charles Weick is now working in the field of metal-ion chemistry, concentrating on the structure of compounds and the rates these compounds react. At the present time, he is working with gold, whose structure is sufficiently bulky to slow down the reaction rate for -Professor Weick to observe. He is also interested in how these bulky structures slow down these i±ontinued on page 7 On Fehruary 3. 1974 five Union memhers were inducted into Tau Beta Pi. They are: Paul Atcheson. EE 74: I kmetrios Maroulis. E E 74: Donald Mirate. EE 74: Thomas Baca. ME 75; and Axel Rose. EE 75. I he following students are alsc members. having been inducteJ ir rrevious years. \!fred Lemmo. ME 74: Waym Keseherg. EE 74; Gary Mert, MI 74: David Van Arnam CE 74: an<. John Foster, EE 74. BULLETIN TU:SDA Y, FEB. 19: ):12 p.m. Steering ( 'ommittee President Larry Bro\\ n pro poses establishing a tilm subcommittee of the Social Committee. ): 16 p.m. Steering ( 'ommittee President Larry Brown proposes abolition of th~ Social Committee. STllDENT GOVERNMENT MARCHES New Dean Edward J. Crai.g Chairman of the Electrical Engineering Department. has been appointed to fill the newly-created position of Associate Dean of the Faculty, effective July I. 1974. He sees his new role as one of representing the engineering department. especially in trustee communications. Regarding it as his main duty \to fuse the efforts of the engineering department,\ Craig also hopes to encourage new programs. He feels the need for new transdisciplinary programs, and 'notes that there is too much specialization both within his department and the whole school. He explains that transdisciplinary studies at Union have roots in the engineering department, and since. the concept has spread. Craig hopes to coordinate programs within the science center and also with other departments. Craig graduated from Union College in 1948, and has been a member of the faculty for I C: years.

; . Page2 CONCORD!ENS!S, Thursd~l_l', Fe!in,rary 11, /974 Editors-in-chief ................. Judy Dein, Bill Talis News Editor .............................. Phyllis Edelman Culture Editor .................................. Pete Sobol Sports Editor ................................. Bart Mercer Photo Editor ................................. Bill Erichson Ass't Photo Editor .................... Leslie Steineker Copy Editor ................................ : . .-Ph~l Alcabes Blithering Editors ................... Rob Mondschein. Chris O'Connor Business Editor ............................. Al~tn Gnessin National Advertising ..................... .Steve Kelley Subscriptions Editor ............... Gene Rosenblum Layout .. : .. : ............ Dave Strom, Linda Mackey Concordlensis is published every Thursday by the student body of Union College, Old Gym Hall, Schenectady, N.Y., Publications Office, The Jewish World Publications, 771 State St., Schenectady, N.Y., 12307 (346-2356). Entered in the Schenectady Post Office as Second Class Matter. Subscription Rate 35 cents per copy, $8.00 a year delivered anywhere in the United States. Deadline for copy is Tuesday 5:00 P.M. ~ ... . .- ....... Poor Choice The impendin!! hattie over the Social Committee may weB point up several critical flaws in student !!OVernment at Union. The Steerinp: Committee meeting of Feb. 19 was not held in a manner that would minimize controversy. Rather. what occurred may be the beginning of a showcase for public support. The days of Mark Shugoll serve as a reminder to us that the Social Committee was once an effective catalyst on campus. The weaknesses of the Social Committee, are !!enerally conceded to lie in its leadership and unity .. The problem of abolishing the Social Committee leaves us with the problem of finding a suitable replacement. lest we decide to abolish social life here (an option which some claim has already been implemented). Rather. a better approach to the dilemma would be to desi!!n into student !!Overnme]lt a means of reviewing committee appointments. If committee appointments are so · dubious that their .success is in doubt then perhaps the whole syste.rn of appoint~ents should be revised .. This problem would not have arisen had student government the ability to quietly request resignations from. those. committee members who shitk ·their resf)onsibility. the editors Committee ·Review by PETE SOBOL !he Social Committee held a meeting in Hale House on Februarv I Xth at 4:30. Five committee members showed up. \'ith a record turnout of non- committee people numbering fifteen. the suggestiofl t-hat the concert as a form of entertainment on this campus is dead. Miller than suggested that the upcoming Roomful of Blues performance (March 9) be held in the gym as a dance. ~o tangible suggestions for Parents' Weekend were made, but the possibility of bringing in some kind .of d-ramatics was put forth. The Social Committee would appreciate any information from the ~t udents about what enter- tai.nment to arrange (or the campus. Any suggestions can be left in the Social Committee mailbox in the Student Activities Office in Old Gym HalL A few people came to complain about the unfortunate dance in the gym on the 8th. Peggy Miller, Social Committee Chairperson .. explained that the band Jonah \>.as allowed to play in the gym ror whatever they could take at the door. When Jonah came to the Social Committee with the idea. thev called themselves a dance b.;nd. said Miller. and .. although a tape of their music.) ~R5l~5<~5<~~~o;~~m !othould have been examined. no student tax money was risked. At the meeting, the committee then heard an offer from two Union students. They stated that their booking company could arrange for performers to tour the a rea giving concerts at different i>chools. thereby getting the performers at \package-deal prices.\ Under this system the hooking company would rent the Chapel as an outside organization. and the Social Committee would still prepare the Chapel before the performance and repair it afterwards as they do now. !he question of Union students making money off of other Uni0n students surfaced as an issue· which needs to he examined. one of these days. It is in the rules now that no Union students illay be paid for performing from. ~tudent tax money unless they are professional performers. like Bob Bernhardt. Novella Nelson drew a grand total of 73 people. This. and other low-turnout occasions prompted On Sunday. February 24. the Union College and \\'heat on (Mass). College Glee ( \luhs will present a program of choral music featuring \\ orks of Franz Schubert. Heinrich Shutz, and Randa:ll I hompson. The concert will hcgin at 4 p.m. in the Union C. ·ollcge Memorial Chapel. I he music will be conducted hv Wheaton's Charles Fassett a ;1d hv Peter Flanders. visiting director at Union. The soprano soloist will be Ellalou I >immock. and Union student Howard Grossberg will accompany on the piano. In addition to Schubert's 1\liriam's Song of Triumph, three Shut7 motets, .and The American Mercury of I hompsnn. the Union Club· \\ill perform Elliot Forbes' arrangement of lhe E·R·I·E and When Johnny Comes Marching Home, arranged by f·enno Heath. Admis~ion will he $1.50 for the public. free to the Union You Said It I I • JONAH t:ditors: f'oncordieosis; in response to the Letters to the Editor published in last week's Concordy and all interested students, we'd like to state some facts concerning the .. dance dupe\ of February 8. \Jonah\ came tO the Social CommiHee early this term and said that they would like to do a dance on campus. for the door receipts only. If ten people showed up, they made $10; no- risk to student tax money. As non-students, they needed a sponsor. someone to take respon- sibility for the building they used. \Jonah\ decided that Memorial Chapel was too large ( 1,000 seats:) and Old Chapel too .sma'll (200 seats). They opted for the Gym (500-600 person capacity) and labelled the event \a dance.\ The Social Committee took responsibility for use of Alumni Gym so that \Jonah\ co1;1ld perform and Union students would have one more night of. entertainment. We DID NOT print the posters Jonah printed them and gave them to us. We DID NOT take your money at the door; Frank Sanzo; \Jonah's\ agent, did. We DID NOT provide sound equipment and we did not help them set up, The Social Committee sold beer at 10¢ a glass because parties. usually go better at Union when there's . b€er .. · We broke even on the beer (i.e., we didn•t lose any stud·ent tax money). Our purJjose in s1wnsoring \Jonah\. was not to \dupe\ any student Gut of $1.00. We did not plan a dance and hire \Jonah\ to play dance music .. \JONAH\ came to us and asked- if we'd sponsor fhem- (for legal reasons) as a· dance in .the Gym. We trusted their judgement that they knew what type of music they played. It's unfortunate that they were mistaken. There are twelve reople on; the Social Committee (all appointed lw the Committee on Committees) and vou're welcome to get in touch wiih anv or all of th~m when you hav.e a suggestion. criticism. question or interest. Mrs. Marra (Student Activities Of(ice) can get YOU in touch with anv of the committee memhers: Pef!~V Miller (C'hrm.). l.oi . .; .Rrustman. Dan Milev. Stephen . I .ewis. Fred Humane. A nne Honvouloir. Frica Lorber. Kelle\' Newton. Jill Manning. Jeff Wisoff. .lim Mori. Crai[! Jackson. We held an open meeting on Tuesdav. Feh. 19 in Hale House Student I.oun_ge: notices were printed in Concordy and posted in every dorm and frat. 20 people attended the meeting. If You are interested in future socia 1 events. GET INVOI .VFD. or at least find out the facts he fore criticising our actions. With some communal effort. this could he a much hetter place to Stl!dV and live. Sincerely, Pe~gy Miller Jeff Wisoff Lois Brustman Erica Lorber James Mori Rx Fails To the Editors of Concordiensis, and Ms. Phyllis Edelman, Would you please come down off your high horse and start looking at the world, this college community. and your friends'? And this time. do it like you realize that they are people: living. breathing pieces of humanity with hopes, ideals. morals.. and concepts of . I.) ,.(,' .,/ I i • ! }~ :Jl themse'lves that are what make people people'? In the four ye;1rs that I have been working, playing. and making \relationships\ her-e. I ha:ye read just about enough of these s~upid letters and editorials that want to group folks into somebody's latest b~:~gbear, be it racial, sexual, academic, or l'ratt;rnal. I have seen enough broad sweepin~ statements to choke the pmverbial· he>rSe, it akeady has choked me. When will yoH realize that to get along in a heterogeneous comrnunity like we have here, that \Generalizations\ is j.ust not the name of the game'? Furthermore. how dare you presume to know so much about the personal lives of the entire community'! You put words into the mouths and minds of real pe.ople. we read this, and are ~uppo.sec:l .. to· walk around thinking: ·thil!l~~w~!lgr, way he I she feels about a -relationship, so I better thint< 1this way about it'? Come off it,~E<YttrcY friendship and acquaintance , .i.s an entirely personal thing and I defy you to know. or even guess what I and 2000 other individuals feel. Concentrate on how you treat people and let the rest of us do the same. Heidi Steger BOB & ART & PETER Editors, Concordiehsis; I think I laughed once at Bob when he hung his cool, · ripped shirt on the· pooka hoo·k ·and it · didn't stick. Bob and Art sounded amazingly rike Peter. Paul, and Mary. Simon and Garfunkel. Grand Funk, Jim Croce. Cat Stevens. Neil Young, Arlo Guthrie and whomever else they simulated. despite the fact that they aren't Peter, Paul, Mary, Simon. Gatfunkel, Jim, Cat, Neil or Arlo .. (Although Art's frizzy hair did bear a striking resemblance to that of a certain member of a well. known folk duo. (\who are rumored to be going back together .. next year\) by .the name of Bob and Art... I mean Simon and Garfunkel. Now it is not my purpose to put down the aforementioned musical talents. I like Peter. Paul. et. al... I like them when I'm cleaning my room. writing a letter. talking with a friend or trying to be bored llullcd) to sleep and it's before my bedtime. I might also add that I am not demeaning the vocal or instrt:Hhental skfll of either Bob or Art. As I said befor~;::they sound like a lot of people who are good musicians. Conclusion: Bob and Art are good musicians, right'? I'm ~orry. I have to debate that. If they (Bob most ostensi-bly) could have just stuck to their lip singing and canned the bull between numbers I may have been content to sit and write a letter (alack and alas the lighting was too poor for my eyes). But they went a·n and on! I don't really believe that they expected to amuse the audience with their pseudo-off-color jokes. I have never heard more allusions to one man's crap within so short a time. Rob. you didn't have to tell us of your fecal habits, we were all witnesses thereof. I have never had such a hard time warming up to two facsimiles. There· was·' nothing <;)riginal, no variation on a theme, not even a take-aff. Within the context of each(.~g Bob and Art had a style -- whatever was the style 6f the. artist .... l?eJ'fij. mimed. All humor was artificial. But I do remember another moment when I laughed. Somewhere iii tne background a table containing two or three spectators collapsed with more than a subtle flop. That was unrehearsed. That/ was Pete Sohol- a natural talent. photo by Leslie Steineker funny. lt produced a real gut laugh. Speaking of s.pontaneous humor. Peter Sobol entertained us at the Coffeehouse on Saturday. February 9. l have not enjoyed anything so much since my friend almost fe.ll out of the car last week when we were driving over the New Scotia Bridge. Peter Sohol was original, nervous. unrehearsed, spontaneous. superb. sublime .. delicieux (Thank you. Prof. Leclerc). Peter, iH my humble opinion, has talent. He is a pre-med and uses this rather ignominious feature more to his advantage than anyone I have ev.er known. Interspersed ,between Tom Lehrer numbers Peter impressed me with his musical reactions to Organic Chemistry. Biology 14 and the allMaround stereotypisms of pre-medical school pressures (Peter did. you really keep your roommate up. all night talking so he'd sleep through his chem exam'?) With a rich. mellow voice. skillful guitar playing and lyrics worth listening to Peter made the pre-med route sound as easy as a song. Leslie· Steineker IRC NEWS To the Editor, The I nterna tiona! Relations Club was originally formed by Union students interested in promoting a better under- standing of international relations through on-campus speakers and programs. This term the IRC plans to bring speakers and programs to . the College community on a wide variety of topics. Our particular aim is to d e a I w i t h s o me o f t h e international problems and issues which currently occupy the worlds attention. Some of the topics to be discussed include: 'terrorism 'and hijacking, the Arab-Israeli nego- tiations and disengagement, the international energy crisis, what has happened in India. Pakistan. and Bangladesh since the war of independence. and new types of Marxism . being developed in Eastern Europe. We have been successful in getting speakers who are exciting to listen to and who know their );UbjeGt matter. We encourage anyone interested in joining the Club and helping out with our activities to come to our meetings nr to contact one of our officers. We invite all members of the college community to attend 'our programs. Tom Burbank 346-9582 Anne Pebley 370-6558 } .. . • I . ')I J J ..

.. . I ) . ' I \\ ) , } .. )J • Page3 · CONCORDTENSIS, Thursda;J', Feh~uary 21, 1974 Credit for Your Travel Netherlands Wind by DEBBJE GLASSE:R Feel like getting away? Maybe taking a trip to some place far from anything that would even minutely resemble Union'! Of course you pFobably couldn't afford· any loss of cre:dit or extra ex pens~) but y_ou don't 'have . to! Do:t:en.s of Umon students travel every ye~r and find rhat ~it is good for cre~it, · · surely no · more expensive than a term's tuition at Union, and definitely one of'l:he best experiences of their lives. Ter:m abroad opportunities for American college students are endless. Union offers at least six of its own regular terms a:broad {in France, Israel, Austria: Spain, /Columbia, and next fall in Italy), not i'ncluding its s:pecial arrangements .such as with St. Andrews in Scotland and the Swiss Federal Institute of Technology in Switzerland. Most colleges and universities offer term_ abroad programs and many -of the.m unlike Union, open their pro~rams to students from other school. In addition, many foreign universities have special programs and study . o.pportunities for students foreign· to their country. Any of these opportunities are .great bets for credits transferable to Union. And of cours-e there are infinite possib-ilities of independent arrangement for study abroad. At least one student is in the process of applying to spend her junior year at Israel's Hebrew University, also in Jerusalem. The list continues to grow. Returning students bring back myriad stories, memories. and few, if any, regrets. Carol and Nancy found that it really was beneficial to get away, as they returned to appreciate Union's campus and quality academics. Bonnie Horn (English, '75) was on the 1erm in Israel during the winter of '73. She remarked on the value of the \break\ and would even consider getting away _ -again. Direct benefits. from a trip often depended on the particular person and her (or his) choice of program and country. Allison Winhold (Languages, '75) went on Union's terms in both Vienna and Rennes, France. She has s;tories of the cultural by MARK MANUS Last Friday night, the Social Committee presented Novella Nelson at Memorial Chapel. Playing to a ludicrously small audience (due to poor advertising?) of 73, Ms. Nelson nevertheless succeeded in giving a stirring performance. The statuesque singer presented a unique blend of soul, blues, and ,ian accented with a diverse selection of sensuous poetry. Her back-up group consisted of Levrs Dave's' Mens Shop 453 State St. (downtown Seh~nec~y)· 1 . . . . · opportunities in Vienna: the theatres, concerts, and art gal!ef,~s,~Through such intense contact with both Austrians and French, she learned of interesting differences; '!oetween different cultural groups. The Austrians seemed neater, more organized, and more tllor.ough, yet less independent than Americans, whi-le the French seemed more in a h,urry, i'ndependent, and family- oriented. Ginger Mara (Psychology, '75) found that she learned much major field. They did not have to learn a language, but they did have to make that little extra effort of finding and arranging an academic program for themselves. Union students have spread the College's fame even beyond Singapore and England. Jill Terry (Languages, '75) is in Taiwan right now. studying Chinese on a self-initiated program. The author spent this past summer and fall term in Jerusalem, in a Brandeis University sponsored program. about people and life styles after li!T . E her term in Rennes. Living with a 1 Y.l USe Um VenfS family. day\to-day activity began to fit into a routine as anywhere ell!e. yet the knowledge and insight gained from adapting to a foreign way of life, language, and culture were immeasurable. For Rick Lyness (Languages, '75), the term in France was a natural eXtension of -his academic pursuits: \one can just do so much out of books with a language... one must spend time where t.h'E:flltariigti~~e is spoken,\ .he said.. .,i '' ! Schenectady M usel!m Calendar of Events for the week beginning Sunday. February 24, 1974. I:xhibits: 1 Peter Arno: Retrospect. The late New Yorker cartoonist is represented ·by 120 cartoons, cover designs. and memorahi1ia. Through March lOth. BruJlo La V~rdiere: Sculptor. The north-country C~rtist shows ·many fascinating works il) fired day. Through March 17th. , Robin Wolf: Jeweler. The work There is J1tit 1ro much to be missed if on~.J?s~to break away for ,of an area professional cra_ftsman a .term, C>r two, or three ... It takes· .. and teacher. Through Apnl 21st. a little initiative imagination and Walter Halstead: maybe even gut~. to leave a s~cure l,hotographer. A one-man show haven. but the benefits are Continued on page 4 invaluable, and :inexpensive, and The Netherlands Wind Ensemble, making its first tour of the United States, will play the fifth concert in the I nternationa:I FestiVal of Chamber Music in Memorial Chapel on Wednesday eYening, March 6, at 8:30. Single tickets wiH be available at the door. Sponsored by Union College and Schenectady Museum, the Netherlands Ensemble will include in its aU-Mozart program the Divertimento No. 9 in B Flat Major. K. 240: and the Serenade No. 12 in C Minor, K. 338. Following the intermission, the sixteen young artists will perform Mozart's Serenade No. lO in B Flat Maj(')r, K. 361, also titled thta. \Gran Partitta.\ The ensemble is made up of artists from the leading orchestras in the Netherlands. Averaging 27 years of age, the group was founded in . 1960 by the solo bassoonist of the Concertgebouw Orchestra, Thorn de Klerk. Its a.im was to restore to popularity the undeservedly neglected wind music of the great masters and lesser-known composers. Through musical ability, zest and ingenious programming, they have more than realized their goal. In their own country, the ensemble affected a breakthrough Netherland Wind Ensemhle m musical life .. They have been able to interest a p~edorninantly young public in music other than pop. This has largely come about t h r o u.g h u nco n v en tiona I programs, informai dress, concerts in the streets and in places not especially intended for musical events. For examJlle, they have played in the ciJ-cus ring of the Amsterdam Carre l'heatre. and in the foyer of the Doelen Concert Hall in Rotterdam. perhaps not again attainable after these college years are over. Union has been re.presented around the world through its students. Almost everyone mentions res Hessness as a signifi~;:ant factor in stimulating a decision to go away. Sandy Daws(>n, (Languages. '74), who spent six months, studying Chinese in Singapore. claimed his need for a change and \wanderlust\ as the mo);t significant factors in influencing his decision to study abroad. His interest .in Ia nguages, particularly Chinese, were secondary to these hut more influential in his choice of Singapore as a destination. Beat the· Devil By no means confined to the music of the past, .the ensemble frequently includes modern works in their repertoire, their reputation being so great in this area that 13 contenporary composers have dedicated new works to the group. Traveling students are described. ~s ambitious because it . is a minority of kids who do take a leave of absence from Union. Nancy Eppler and Carol Lieb (both Psychology, '75) went to England and studied in their photo hy Farley Lewis ) Richard Harris (playing an incredible stand-up bass), a talented pianist, and a jazz percussionist. Throughout the show. Ms. Nelson was personable · and spontaneous with the audience. FIERRO'S ·PHARMACY fl Jnbi.lit ~UDENT DISCOUNT' .. 515 Nott St. 377-esta 346-9309 by JACK PITNEY The Exorcist is a victim of its own publicity. The press has touted it . as the most horrifying film experience of all time. The movie is inevitably disappointing, ~ecause its !!hock ~;:ffects cannot be as powe·rft,il on the screen as they are in the imagination of the anticipating audience. This is a pity, because The GRADING The All-College Senate. informed the Steering Committee that it wanted students to consider a change froin the present five-point grading system to either an eight or twelve-point system. Paul Cerwin, in presenting the Senate's recommendations, urged a recruitment of students to inform them of all the alternatives. The Steering Committee, at a previous meeting. had unanimously voted against a change in the grading system. This came after a student poll revealed opposition to a change v.as running 4-1. Steering Committee President Larry Hrown said of the poll, \l'tn ~atisfied with the results,\ and urged the defeat of any change. In rebutting the poll, Corwin ~tated. \I think some of the feeling was that the poll was done for expediency's sak~. The feeling is that the poll might have given erroneous and gut reactions.\ Corwin added that after ''informing students. we're considering doing another poll.\ 1\s part of the program to inform students of the alternatives mailable. Corwin announced that <I pane.! of professors would discuss the various grading :;ystems in Hale House Lounge on Monday. Feb. 25 at .~ p.m. DARI- TREET 'Student Discount' (with J.D.) 2049 VanVranken Mon.-Fri. 6-9, Sat. 8-9 377-4261 Exorcist is a superb adaptation of William Peter Blatty's novel about the demonic possession of a 12-year-old girl. The cast is uniformly e~cellent. As the girl's mother, Ellen Burstyn subtly conveys a sense· of overwhelming anxiety and despair. Jason Miller and Max Von Sydow are properly intense as the priests who battle the demon. Lee J .. Cobb's Colombo-like cop provides a few mome.nts of wry comic relief. The ·most talked-about performance is actually the one least worthy of note. Linda Blair is certainly adequate as the victim of possession. bu.t the film's horrors come not from her acting hut from a bag of cinematic tricks. At times, the girl is just another prop in the midst of the film\ fantastic special effects. The llying chairs. floating bodies. and crashing tables are what reallv make the demon's powers seem s~ real. rhe real popularity of the film comes from its sequences of grotes4ue violence and obscene language. It is a tribute to Driector William Friedkin that ihc gore never becomes redundant. but continues to shock until the end. The now-famous \ omiting and masturbation scenes 11ash SO quickly that the audience can only respond with ripples of nen ouo Ia ughter. i\11 of these effects will be lost on the movie-goer if he expects the movie to drive him into complete shock. The Exorcist is not the greatest movie of alj time. hut it is a work of fine film craftsmanship that deserves attention and appreciation on its own terms. Who~s Afraid? Who's Afraid of ~irginia Woolf?, the enormously successful Edward Albee play, was filmed by Warner Br()s. as a r o n t e m p o r a r y d O·C ·um en t calculated to entertain and provoke motion picture audiences as never before. The film became one of the most discussed of its ~ecade, arousing passions an<l l'Ontroversy while e1iciting attention through both its artistic merit and its shock potential. It v.as nominated for IJ A..::ademv Awards and won five. - Vir~inia Woolf was dire<ted ov Mike Nighols and stars Elizabeth laylor. Richard Burton. Ceorge Segal. and Sandy Dennis. The Hurtons play the roles of Nartha and George. a se lf-destmctive 1 ulgar campus couple ~h<J share 11 ith their young VISitors a Walpurgis :\light of fun and Fames. ending in exorcism. The subject and dialogue was kept so close to the original stage .play that Jack L. \Varner, then head of Warner.Bros .. established an \adults only\ policy for the lilm. prohibiting exhibitors from admitting anyone under the age of IX unless accompanied hv a parent. This policy was set oeforc the now-familiar M P AA rating 'ystem had heen introdllced hv th~ industry. · Film Haps. Sat. and Sun. at 7. 9: l 5, I UO p.m. m SS016. Admission is $1.00. WHO LllffiS SCHOOL we· rr· d·newl y lormed'pub'•c .nterest foundation, ded1cated to fundamental s<waJ.ch ange espec1ally through publiC school education We hope to contnbute lowar.d a less mater.all>l•c. ,ompet1live. nnd sterile world, and to the development of more mter J)ersonaf and f1Uman•st1c values ·Our •ndepemdent tong term fundmg enables us to de.ve16p pilot pro 1 ect5 •n non trad1t1onal human deve!Qpment areas. and to deal w•tll values and a s1Q111f•cant soc1al reonentatiOh. WE NEE 0 students, fac ulfy, concerned· 1ndi vi duals who are very mtell1gent, s-ensitive, ,,lert, ,,.t1culate. aware, resourceful, energetic, •mag•nat1ve and comm1ttei:l Let us know your thoughts. We hope to fill an 1deai1St1c void. IF YOU IDENTIFY WITH OUR OBJECTIVES CONTACT US AT: ~~~~~sz IN SOC. CHANGE PRO). s.E.R Foundation Jo -B, S OR ACADEMIC CREDIT 1711 tstb st. Nvv rm. 1 Wash. D.C. 20009 Please 1nclude phone number in reply. 202·797-8829

Page4 CONCORD!ENSIS, Thursa.a:\', J;l?bruarl' 21, 1974 Social Committee Continue~ from page 1 seats - of the Chapel is a factor in the grade .of entertainment which comes to the Chapel. Miller stated that both the Girling Center and Proctor's Theater on State Street have been considered for past concerts. One problem with the Girling Center, said Peggy Miller. was that an under-the-counter payoff to the Schenectady Police was necessary to keep them from coming to bust the inevitable Hooch smokers in the audience. Transportation to the Center from campus is also a restriction. This winter, in addition, the Girling Center is closed due to lack of heat. · floor should seep down to the old surface. there would be no way to reach it and the floor would rot. Any plans to hold any social function in the Fieldhouse are now out of the question. The Athletic Department is adamant about prohibiting even smoking on the new Tartan surface. It will he a brave group which accepts the responsibility of allowing beer 'in the Fieldhouse. Student Participation lhe greatest criticism of the Social Committee is that Peggy Miller docs it all herself. Members of the Social Committee have cum:plained that they receive a :phone call from Miller only after all the decisions h<!Ye been made. Dan Miley feels rhat the campus population is not helpful in making Social Committee events a success. ,P'a1aphrasing Physics H. Miley said, \bodies at West tend to remair:t at West.\ Questionnaires· asking what sort <)f entertainment stuclents would like elicited replies such as the Allman Brothers and t·he :Roiling Stones. Open C<Ntlm itt e,e meetings have not been well- attended. The manager of Proctor's did not like the idea of a Union concert in his hall. Apparently the one concert which was held there left the place a total wreck: W . ' .omens There is, in every performer's contract. an Act of God clause. Roberta Flack cancelled due to laryngitis. Proctor and Bergman cancelled to finish a recording. rhe school is at the mercy of the performer. Housekeeping (5) Cleaning up has become a very important aspect of Social Committee planning, now that there are new floors in both the gym and the Fieldhouse. If beer spilled on the new raised gym The recentlv formed Women's Caucus at UFiion College will hold i·ts first \Women's Wee'k.\ Feh. 24 throup:h March 2 on campus. The Caucus will sponsor d u rinp the week a series of prn)!ram' including lectures. films. panels. a·nd a workshop on \feminist therapv.\ The workshop wilil he offered twice on Thursdav with hoth the 9:30 a.m. a·rid the 2JO p.m. ses-;ions featuring Tina Mandell. a !'hera rist and professor .of psvcholo)!v at the Citv Universitv of New York. The two session.s will he followed hv an R p.m. talk entitled \Feminist Therapv\ hv Prof. Mandell. scheduled to he held in SS016. The week's program witl open on Sundcl\' evening. Feh. 24. with a talk hv New York State Senator Marv Ann Krupsak. set for R p.m. in Old Chapel. The Mondav. Feh. 25. session will he an R p.m. panel discussion in the Social Science Auditorium on \WO\men in Politics.\ Participants will include New York · State legislators Carol . Rellamv and Karen Burstein. and Deborah Botch from the Governor's Women's Unit tn Albanv. Tuesdav. Feb. 26. there will he a 4:30 p.m-. ~ession in Strauss BLI1'HER·· Due to the outbreak of Polio Margerine, the crippling: butter substitute . .JR and the Flying Circus will not be heard over WRUC this Friday night. They will be replaced hy an as yet unannounced fiasco. * * * * Hillel is planning a Purim dinner on Friday evening. March 8. For reservations and the \ganseh megillah\ contact Scott Reiter. 151 Davidson. 370-6521. * * * * Since December l st. the cost of food purchases has increased 21%-. In the past. the State Sales Tax has been included in the prices at the Rathskeller. Due to the sharp increase in the cost of purchases. the Sales Tax will be charged on each item starting March I. 1974. * * * * The next meeting of the Student-Faculty Bridge Club will he held on WednesdaY.februarv 27 at 7:45p.m. at the Hale House Upper [ .ounge. All bridge plavers are welcome to attend. The results of the last tournament were: First Place. R. Siegel and W. Westheimer: Second Place. Profs. Bacon and Goodheart: Third Place. D. Warner and J. DesRochers. * * * * Anv student interested in working on the newly formed Film Committee please sign up in the Student Activities Office with Mrs. Marra hy Friday. March l. * * * * There will be a rneetinf! to discuss Parents' Weekend. which will he held April 26-2R. The meetinl!' will be on Friday. Feb. 22 at 3 p.m. in Strauss l.oun_ge. * * * * Seniors: Time to order _graduation announcements. See Mrs. Marra in the Student Activities Office. * * * * Once a Kin_g always a King. hut once a Knight is enough. * * * * LOST AND FOUND: The SecuritY Office ahove the Rathskeller maintains a lost and found service. At the present time there is a considerable collection of eye[!lasses. text books. keys. articles of clothing. etc. These can he claimed. upon proper identification. at the Security Office. Monday-Friday between the hours of 8:30 a.m. and 4:30p.m. * * * * The film Future Shock; hased on Alvin Toffler's book. will he shown at Zion Lutheran Church. 153 Nott Terrace (next to Carroll's). at 12:45 p.m .• Friday. February 22. A discussion will follow. Rring vour own lunch. All students and facultv are invited. NOCHARGE. - * * * * Learn to run the world. People are needed for Prof. Walbek's lnter~nation Simulation. If you want to participate or help run it. see Chuck Rothman at 320 West College. or call 346-9211. I oun.ge in Carne).Ne Hall focu-;ing on \Birth (' ont rol and Health Care.\ wit•h C'aro.l Valentine of Schcnectad\' Planned Parenthood. Tl~at eHning. '\W<Jmen and I aw\ will he the t0pic for a panel discussion fe;lturinf.! Alham- attornev Greta Flowers. Alhanv l.aw School smiio r Marge Karowe. and Meg Opa.lka. Director of Women's Ad\'Ocacv. the paraprofessional ~~~al...- unit for women in Schenect2dv. The Wednesda\'. Feb. 27th. program includes Cl. 430: p.m film festival in SS 016. Also. there will he an evening s@ssion in Strauss Lounge set for R p.m. featuring Rohert Fa~er of the Alhanv chapter of the National Organi7ation for W<lmen (NOW) and a discussion .oft he role of men in the women's rncnernent. Thursdav. Feh. 2Rth. will continue the therapY pro?:ram with Prof. Mandel 1\ .topics to include \sex-role stere0 typinf,!.\ Fridav. March I. ~ill see· a 4:30 p.m. panel on Women's Studies. followed bv an address hv Rennin):!ton Colle.rre 'President Gail Thain Parker scheduled for 7:30 p.m. in Old Chapel. Participants in the afternoon pro_gram will indude Virp;inia Lester. an Associate ,[)ean at Fmpire State Coilel!e. and Sharon H. Pennev of ~he New York State Depart lilent of Fducation. SaturdaY. March 2_ Will feature a self-defense workshop at 2 p.m .. in Rm. 202 of the Arts Ruilding. The Women's Week program will conclude w.ith a dance co-sponsored hv the Hli!ck Student Alliance. schedtrled for lUO p.m. in Alumni G-vnmasium. All events for the week are open free to the flllhlic. However. the workshop sess i0ns on \Feminist TheraJly'\ can accommodate on lv, I imi ted num hers .and thm:;e intere-sted must si_gn up In adva. nee. Reservations are ~vaila hie throu~rh the Student Adi\'ities Offic~ . .:H0-61 l K !Vluseum Continued_ from page 3 o! photography D\ ( il:·'!-> Jnternationally known lensman. I rulv a rt-in-sciencc. f hrotJgh ,\pr'i\l 2ht. .James Cilliland: Painter. I he Schenectady artist-cd ucator !->hll\\-~ rece;lt work. r hrllug.h ,\pril 21st. The Storefront. Marble glass. referred to in times past as slag. onyx. Connecticut glass, and calcio glass. Recent gift of the estate of William W. Jeffers. I hrough March 3rd. Planetarium: Solar Swingers. Comets are looked at from a JAKE LIPSTEIN'S LIQU~S Tei.374-118R Mon.-Sat. 9 a.m.~9 p.m. 464 Sttate St .. Downtown Schenectady . What's Happenilig Friday., February 22 X:OO ·p.m. -Mounte.banh rrcsent Moliere's Tartuffe. Reserve tickets by Cll'lling 370- 615.:t or stop by at the box office a 1iy afternoon frQiffi):W~. X:OO p. rn. -Film EveJing of the .Jeste.rs, an I ngma,r Bergman film. :\o charge. t-;.s. -0'16. X :00 p.m. -Varsity Basket ball \ s. Tufts oin the Fieldhouse. _ HUlO p.m.. -The Social Committee and Sunshine .Prod·uctions are sponsoring a free hand and heer party on Friday. hh. 22 in Old Chapel Ail ~tudcnts wekome. Saturday, Febr~ary 23 7:00. 9:10. II :20 p.m. -Film Hap~: Who's Afraid of Virginia Woolf? Admission $1.00 S.S.O l!il X:OO p.m. -Mountebanks present Tartuffe. ;'-;ott Memorial X:OO p.m. -Varsity Basketball \ ~. Binghamton State in the !· ielclhouse. lJ:JO p.m. -You gonna have a hell of a time at the Rathskeller this Saturday night. There'H he plenty of heer (at $1.00 a pitcher until IUO). music. aml WRlJC's \\ orld-famous niff~ prizes. Come till do\\- n m'id fiHget your cares for the evening (tlr until the heer \\ IJlHS off.). •' \ i!. , foo Sunday, February 24 -UJO p.m. -Union College Glee ( 'luh and Wheaton College Glee ( 'luh will present a concert of L\iwra1 music in Memorial ChapeL X:OO p.m. -Mountebanks pn:sent Tartuffe. 7:00. 9: UJ. II :20 -Film Haps presents Who's Afraid of Virginia Woolf? $1.00 in SS 016. X:OO p.m. -Women's Week ... peaker Mary Ann Krupsak in ( >Id Chapel l\1 onday, Februa.ry 25 ·X:OO p.m. -\Women ~ and Polities.\ a panel di~cussion with \ew York State \Legislators Karen Burstein and Caro.l· Bellamy. and Deborah Botch of the Gov~rnor's Women's Unit 111 Alban¥. SSOI6. _, Tuesday, February 26. 4:-30 p.m. -Prof. \'. E. Pilcher ~peaking on \Energy and Nuc:lear lission\ in the Phvsics Somi,nar Ro.om in the -Science and I ngineering lluilding. 4JO p. rn. -\Hirth Control an <if llealt h Care·• sponsored by Schene,ctadv Planned Parenthood. ' X:O.O p.m. -\Women and Law.,\ \\ith Albany- a'ltorney Greta I'HV.ers. Alhanv Law School !->Cnior Marge - Katowe. and Sdwnectadv Women's Advocacv !Je<td Meg- Opalka at Straus·s Lo ungc in Ca rnegic Hall. Wednesday, February 27 -1-:.m p.m. -Films. \Joyc~ at J4,\ ··.Sylvia. Fran a:nd' Jov.'' ·-carnpaigne.\ <md others in \ss ()1,6. 7:JO p.m. -Prof. Jam~s Kehlman of the .University of· s,1uth Carolina spc.ak~ on \'Smiet-East E l'JI'Opean ·Relations u nd :\ew lnterprc~ations of Manism\ in Old Chapd. X:OO p,m .. -\The Wvmen's l\1ovcment and Men.\ hv Robert htger ·of the Albany ·National ( lrgani;ation of Women. in Stnwss Lounge. ThursdaJ. February 28 4-.:JO p.m. -Union Students f~H Reid will have <!11 qrganlzational meeting i.n Straus~ Lounge. 7;30 p.m. -Tina Mandell on \'Feminist Therapy\ in SS 016 7:30 p.m. -Israeli Music; bring younoices or instruments to Arts 202. Future Hollywood directors learning thr! tricks of the trade. h~· CHllCl(~i.ROTHMAN t :;;\:.~~J';''} A visitor :{&)/Humanities last I uesday night J:Tlight have been confused hy.,~~,jn~'i 1 sight of a group of people watching someone do 'nmersa ults. It was all part of the I ilm Workshop's demonstration of filmmaking techniques. The !,!J\()Up used this opportunity to L'Xplain the use of the camera hy 'cientific \ iewpoint. Old myths are. dissolved and the nature. Drigin. and life~time of comets are tliscuss.ed. Saturday acfternoon at ~:JO: Sundays at 2:30 and 3:30. $1 photo hy Earley Lewis filming the somersaults from different angles and using different speeds. The turnout was !airly large: there seem to be quite a few people who· entertain dreams of hecoming Hollywood direct<irs. What will happen to the footage shot'? You'll just have to await developments. adults. 75€ children under 12. !'he Schenectady Museum is located on Nott Terrace Heights (a hlock above Carroll's). YOUR UNION I.D. CARD .IS WORTH 18% MORE AT THE. 'CCOMPLETE RldJRD'& TAPE STORE \'} . .:..'_:-·-. . * *.* '* . APEX. MUSIC K.ORNER * ~ * *·* ·cqRNER ~F STATE & BROADWAY •. I# .... ,. t • ·~ .• IP J • \ ,. \' . 'fl ') \'

, .. '·' . ·~ • . ,._ .• » ' . ·\ It ~) . ... ') .. CONCORDIENSJS, Thursday, Fehruan· 21. !974 Mountebanks Presents. Infamous Msr. Tartuffe jailed .. Orgon htnily Apprehended on I .unacy fharg¢s. reported ~~ Molier¢ lhe cnt.ire Orgon family idiocy ring. lonK rumored setti,ng up (t)perations .ir1 this area has been apprehended hy officials of the Kl11g. Also jailed was the infamous Msr. Tartuffe and one of his servants, alleged accompli<;es of the Or~gons. I artuffc and his aide were dHt rgeJ -.\;ith four COUlltS of fi.rst degree huffo.onery and two co1.1nts of bawdiness. 1)1~ Orgons were each charged Wtth ·five counts of rriminal · lun~cy and two of nuliccnscd foolishness. Msr. ( >.rgon. the ring..:leader . .faced two additional counts of lohotomv in the ;\; th degree. · ~\rraignment of these 'coun(!trds has been set for Feb. 22 thrrH<~g:h March 2 beginning at X p.m. each cvening at the Nott \1emorial. Union College. · His :\ 1ajesty relJucsts the attendance nf the general public so that the misatl\cntures of (.h~se renown pur\.·eyors of cerebral delinlJuency and phallic fa.rce may be held i\S lit cxamf!le to the Kingdom. l ickets may be procurred at the '\ott Memorial bo]L office. 370- 6153. • • I ·I I I I Sparkling Show ''In the realm of drama. the \1ot:Jntehanks will he presenting a ,parlding andl.:\anescent rendition 1>f Moliere's 17th century masterpiece Tartuffe. I\\ o weeks ago. in an article on l.:lllture at lJnion. the editors of Concord,iensis erroneously diminated the words \sparkling <tnd evanescent\ from the above \cntcncc. Having now attended ~c\cral rehearsals of Tartuffe I \\ould like to reinstate my previous declaration. I he Mountebanks' pmduction nf l'artuffe is indeed a winner. lhe play. a delightful cpmedy, is being handled very effectively hy Barry Smith and an c nth usiastic cast. l hesitate to say too much a hout the play itself; I simply urge ) ou t(l attend-: It promises to be a 'cry entertaining evening. P.S. For those ofyou who have hra\cd the lines of \'The F xorcist.\ come see Tartuffe and find out who is really possessed hy the Devil. Pa~e 5 photos by Scott Gordon

CONCORDlENSJS,'Thursday, F~hruary21, 1974 Page6 Concordy Sports .r noq:~1 GRAPPLERS HEAD FOR STA,TE MEET · · · 'IRa by FRANCESCO 'ISGRO lhe Union College wrestling squad ended its dual meet season dropping J of the last 4 matches; thus closing their season with a 6- 6 record. On February 9th they overpowered host W.P.I. 23-14, and dropped a 20·17 decision to Amherst. The triangular was highl.ighted by Don I >eCesare \ ictory hy a fall over his opponent from Amherst. Five days afterwards Lhe team traveled to Hamilton where it bowed 31-7 to host CoJgate. and was nipped 22-1 ti hy La Fayette. it was the first time that Coach Knull had trained a varsity wrestling team. Thus everybody did some learning. this yea-r and hopefully next season's record will show some marked improvements. Massapequa (N.Y.) native wrestle. I I he 6-6 final recOFd doesn't do justice to the Knull-coachedteam. \There were four matches that\ could have _gone either way, regrettably they went against us\ commented l<.ovull. One of the reasons must have surely been the relative lack of experience of ahout half of the team. Also, on the same level the relative youth of the squad. There were only two seniors and only one had .previous experience. It must be added that Mark Zullo eamed himself a spot among Union's greatest wrestlers. He became one of the very few lJ nion wrestlers to ever finish a season unbeaten. With his 48-6 du,tl meet record he set a record for the most wins in his college career here at Union. Zullo's highlight of the season came in his last match as he humbled his opponent from Colgate 16-4. This \opponent\ had decisioned him last year in the Alumni Gym. Not everything went smooth for Mark though. as he injured· his leg and as far as he knows he stands a \50'-50\ chance of competing in the State Tourney. Bruce Freeman, who has just recovered from mono will fill Zullo's vacancy if the latter cannot Union's strong. showing at the R.I.T. To!Irnament last year may not be repeated this weekend. With about 20 teams connecting for honors, Union will only enter about half of the team. As Coach Knull commented, ''We will be ~hooting for individual honors.\ Potential contenders for honors in their weight class are: Tom Everett, with a record of 10-:( will he one of the favorites in his class. Schenectady-native, Larry Dagostino with ari H-2 record. grappling in the 134 lb. weight class. Sophomore Scott Media who dropped· thtee of his last four matches but managed to end ~cason with a respectable 7-3-1 record. Frosh Mike Paquette might do some upsetting as he will wrestle one weight class below his normal. Other grapplers going to Ro.chester are Ray Walker, replacing injur-ed Howie Mastroianni and heavyweight Don DeCesare. Mi.>n/,'1 recently pinned to his AraMan Princess, some more pins this weekend as he tries to strike oil at the state championships; photo credit Cliff Langweiler UNION 17 ·COLGATE 31 118 Walker 2 Scotson 126 Zullo 16 Ernst 134 Freeman 3 Farley 142 McClintock 3 Coccari 150 Medla I Queior I 58 Everett 3 Clarck 167 Wingrath 1:27 Rich 177 'Paquette I 0 Thorn 190 Lvons 7 Ceponis Hwt Burell ~:42 Statton 118 126 134 142 150 158 167 177 190 Hwt 118 126 134 142 150 158 167 177 190 UNION 16 Giamartino Zullo Dagostino McClintock Media Everett LoCascio Paquette Lvons DeCesare UNION17 Mastroianni Zullo Dagostino McClintock Media Everett LoCascio Paquette l.vons LAFAYETTE 22 0; Munn 22 Cunningham 8 Heath 6 turner 7 Vocke! 10 Car.ev o Wilfong II Pvle 2 Miller :38 Brown 3 5 0 7 10 5 0 5 3 4 14 6 7 12 WBF 4 10 WBF 12 4 4 20 8 6 6 0 2 WBF' 13 3 14 0 10 ' •C~~;,..,;;>.:-:-;-:;;_.:,. Tom~y Everett, one of th~ fa~,~~fte.~ in the ur;cnming State Championships. Hwt DeCesare 9 WBF Amherst 20 Lo~b Winkle Hirsch Vogel Middleton Meister Eisen Harman Fucci Pleiffer 0 II 7 10 2:41 photo credit Cliff langweiler THIS WEEK IN SPORTS I he Steering Committee approved the Girls Basketball C. \luh Constitution recently. l he club's proposed budget. according to a reliable source. \\ill barely cover the cost of a nev. basketball. Date Sport ?J ;>3 28 \.·.1r B.r':.I<.Pf!,dl: \ .i' V\,ff'<itlrnq r,. H .. ,.,,tt,dli \ ·'' s~·.,q,., .. r.q \HlOtll T I .1( ~ V,tr fld~kl\tl><~ll F II, v B<ISkPtll.ll' The .. Red Fox Inn 123 JAY ST. 'A QUIET BAR ... A PLACE TO TALK' Bud by the Pjtch~r Opponent Time '.'L 80ilPM ~ ........ ,,,fT•;JS.dtRIT -'·lllrtt ·~r.~Jt.l :~ OOP.M •l,o•··di<•\ 1 00 P IV Htn '·I ..,l,•r !·PV!I.:11r.md: fliiHJii,ll·.tUI\ Sl 8.00 p :\1 ti P G 00 & 8 00 PM. tevrs Dave's M.ens Shop 453 State St. .(dGWJUGWII. Schenectady) . Give the world a little gifttocla)t Blood. +The- Red Cross. The Good . Neighbor. Maurice Graubart & Sons > ~ r a i r- ~ i f [ II THIS IS HERSHEL MAURICE. AND WALTER GRAUBART AT GRAUBART ~ SONS. SCHENEC'TADYS OLDEST FAMILY JEWELERS. WE VERY SELDOM. ADVERTISE . OUR REPAIR DEPARTMENT BECAUSE WE ARE KEPT BUSY MOST OF THE TIME. WE'D LIKE-TO MENTION THAT WE OFFER A CbMnETE REPAIR 1 SERVICE ON WATCHES AND JEWELRY ITEMS. OUR WATCH . REPAIRS ARE .DONE BY EFFICIENT. HIGHLY SKILLED WATCHMAKERS. AND OUR WORK. IS GUARANTEED TO BE SATISF.ACTOR. Y. OUR REPAIR SHOP WITH OUR OWN JIIWELERS AND DIAMOND SETTERS CAN PERFORM MOST . ~WELRY RfPAIRS. REMEMBER GRAUBART & SONS FOR I :LIABLE SERVICE. 166 JAY ST. SCHENECTADY • Pr:.eparatfon tot .tests required for admis!on to graduate and profBSJ' .sioneJ schools . • Six and twetve session courses \ Smali groups • Voluminous material for·flome stu1dvl '· t:Jrepared by experts in each field * Lesion schedule can be tailored 10 meet individual needs. . . . \ Opportunity for review of .past lessons via tape at the ce~tir · Sumnier Sessions · ·Speciai Compact Courses Wt:ekends - lntersessions. UNION23 W.P.Id4 I 18 126 134 142 150 158 167 ] 77 l90 Hwt Giamartino 8 Zullo 10 Dagostino 5 McClintock 4 Media 2 Everett 8 Shut7.er 0 Paquette 9 Lvons WBF Bt.trell :53 Barnicle 4 Martiniano 4 Whitman 0 Eng 4 Isbister 6 Schlitt 2 Pajonas 7 Mimgiagli 0 Batchelder 2:59 Arcari WBF LOWEST JET FARES TO· EUROPE of any scheduled airline from from NEW YORK CHICAGO 1 187 1 228 One way to Luxembourg through May 31 Effective for individuals on scheduled jets to Lux· embourg in the heart of Europe. SAVE $72 to $101 on overseas stays of over 45 days ag<:1inst lowest comparable fares of any other scheduled airline. SHOW INITIATIVE! SAVE MORE MONEY! Students can ar.range their own Affinity Groups of 25 or more passenger.s and qualify for Icelandic's low- est-cost one-way affinity fares. No other airline of- fers one-way affinity fares. SAVE via Icelandic no mat~ ter when you leave or how long you stay, SEE YOUR TRAVEL AGENT. Ptices suoject to change • l:q: Icelandic Airlines ()30 5th Ave., N.Y.,N.Y.10020 (212) 757·8585 . Send folder CN on Lowest Youth Fares to Europe D Name ______ ~- Street-----~- City _______ _ State Zlp·~-­ My travel agent is~--- ICElANDIC AIRLINES ...... .. ~.\ .. ' ,) J •

... .. <.,) • .... ··~ J •• \ CONCORD!EJVS!S, ~Thursday. Fehruary 11, 1974 Page-7 Placement News Mo're Mad Scientists Senior Women: Dovou want a of colll.)ge gr~c:ltiate l:lpplfcants is career in Student Affairs likely to exceed--the number of Administration? There is one johs available.\ · opening fM a female Residence What They're After: The survey llall Directof at Cobleskill in the above report revealed this Agriculture and Technic~! School hn:a.kdown of the. kinds of . about 45 minutes from hackgrQum.i:~they des;~ .. · e in new Schenccta_dy. A good way to get a -employees: ,,. 1m !->tart iii c;ollege ,administration. ••(;reatest Demand is for Ask at the Placement Office ft>r. Engineers. About ~0 percent of dcta,ils. the companies have jobs open for Freshmen, Sophmores, an.J graduates with an engineering .Juniors: Seed a summer job? we lnajQr. Next in line are business, · have lots of information about marketing, and accounting cotl(lsclor ppsitloris in summer majors. About 6B .perce.nt of c~rinpli. lm.Juir:e now! compa,nies are interested in them. .Juniors: Summer jo!:Js 111 Johs for science and math l~hysics, Ch.e.mistry, and graduates, especially those with l•;ngineering _,. special grants in com.puter science specialities are advanced research at Yale ~m:~ilahle at SJ perceht of the l'niversity .._ a great summer j()b companies. tiberal arts gmduates that· will give vou ](its of arc needed by 27 percent of the ~.·xperienc.c. Applic~ti(itl .deadline firms. Compared with last year's :-.1arch I. 1974. Contact t1 1 c sun,:cy re.sults .the need·s for Placement Office for information.. hackgrounds in: engineering are Pa.l't Time Jobs: For (:l)emist up 3 percent. ap::ounting are up ur Bi(;!logist, to dci chemkal and 17 percent, science and math a-re hactcria testing in a laboratory. up I O_ percent. !)usiness and Hl-zo· ll(lU rs a week; make vour nm rketlng are up 5 percent, O\VIl schedule. . - . liheral art~ are dqwn 5 percent.\ For' ,~tudeht with Technical .Journalism: The Newspaper Aptitud-e: small huslness . Fund. I.nc. Qf,~frin · · · · N.J., designs and manu factures i'ccently repflnt-i!f;l t . . :college auton1ation equipment: make iot.1malism enri.JH\1e!:lt~ have ~our own schedule. owner needs passed the 48~000 JlW;f~~ Reports a·ll-around assistant. lrom 152 sc:Wo~<,lls and Both of these positions are with tlepartments of journalism show local firms and ·would be great the fall. 1973 total of 48,237 hcginning experience Co-ntact students majoring or minoring in Placement Office for details. journalism was a 15.9 pel>cent Teaching: We have some increase from 1972. · information on a few teaching ~ote: i\ limited number . of jobs in ~rivate or alternative cop1cs of Graduate, a magazme schools. Students with dealing with job hunting and hack g round in_ E a I' t h other prospects for seniors this Science Math; European Historv.: ~car. are available in the Chemistry and Physics; or to l'lacen1ent Office. compliments of 'cpecializc with children with the Placement and Careet learning disabilities, emotional Counseling Office and the Office PHI.bkms. or physical handicaps of . (\lumni ~ff~irs. T~ey are arc ne.cded. Check with aVailable to Semors whrle they Placement Offipe some jobs begin March I. others September 1974. The .Job Market:~ From a nwent report in C~:,t~ging Times, the Kiplinger Magazine: \Under current unsettled conditions competition for jobs will be intensified, all the more teason to t!t.:t your job search under way. \ccording to projections for the next ten years or .so. the number M.useum Classes. Registrations for art, crafts, and scienct: classes are still bci ng accepted by Schenectady 'Museum . lor the spring term .. i\ bmchure giving full details is available by telephoning the museum at 372- 3JX6. 0 penings are available in t.he tollow:ing courses: Representational painting, Gerald I. Doody, Jr., instructor, on Monday evenings; Modern Painting and Drawing, Edgar A. Bat7ell. on Tuesday evenings; .Junior i\rt for ages 6-10, Car()IC · '\astars. on Wcdnesdav afternoons: Junior Art for ages R to II. Marianne LeClerc. on Friday afternoons; Star Gazi11g. Robert Staron. Wednesday evenings: Lapidary, Margaret Hastings, on Wednesday ~-venings: Mctalsmithing. Rollin Wolf. on Wednesday mornings; Wt.:aving. Christina Sharock, on Wednesday mornings; Mime. I om Hord, on Friday afternoons~ and J>otterv. Rose Catalimo. on Wednesday mornings. The (;nurses will start the first week of ahd meet fo Continued from f)C~ge 1 reactions. The importance of his work points to many enzymatic reactions which are catalyz:ed by metals. Professor Howard Sheffe·l' is currently engaged in various fields of research. Working out ~~ the Schenectady Chemical Company, he has been developing high temperature insulation varnishes and enamels for industrial u~e. He has also developed a tnetflod of raising the flash point of these varnishes and enamels to •improve the safety standards. Professor Sheffer also does research as a polymer chemist here at Union. He is now studying styrene, a compound used chiefly in the production of plastics. With a seni&r aiding him, Dr. Sheffer is trying to discover the type of p0lymerization found in the styrene molecule. In addition, Professor Sheffer has 'been working with the Albany College of Pharmacy , on certain nerve impulse-blocking drugs, and their· role in nerve transmission. Professor William Martin has been working with some students on certain Huorescent materials associated with the retina of the eye. He is in the process of synthesizing radicals (a~dition of electrons to a stable comp<Jund), specifically benzene. Professor Martin explains that although he is not specifically engaged in this type of research, there are possible implications to the study of cancer. He further ex.:plains that there is one current t~eory tevrs. ' Dav·e's· Mens ShoF 453 State St. (downtown Schenec:tady) No delivery charge with ·two !J cut pitza.s • WE DELIVI!i!J . - UNT1L MIDNIGHT Call374-5600 Recruiter on campus ~':tc:H·ch l. (\:)ntact Placement Office for ap~ointment. that says that certain electron- dense aromatics, of which benzene is one, may possibly be carcinogens. Since Professor ·Martin is forming an electron- dense benzene molecule (he is actually working with three benzene rings), he hopes to be able ,to .study its properties. His work requires him to utilize an Electron Spin Resonance machine located at General Electric. Professor Charles Scaife is p.resently interested in chemical bonding. From the synthetic view, Professor Scaife is working with a boron-nitrogen ring system, similar to that of benzene, called borazine. He is making additions to such compounds and studying the effects on the bonding of the mol~cule. Dr. Scaife explained that, due to high reactivity, all work has been done in both vacuum tubes and dry tubes. The implication of this research lies in solid fuels, which by virtue of their long storage time (they may be stored fo.r years) possess immense importance in the future of energy. The second portion of Professor Scaife's · research in chemical bonding involves instrumentally analyzing. water solutions. This requires the use of complex analytical ins~ruments which_ are extremely difficult to operate, explains Dr, Scaife. This research may apply to the desalinization of water. Professor Sea ife is receiving support from the Office of Saline Water fort his portion of his research. Professor Thomas Werner is interested in the relationship of emission and absorption of li,ght to the structure of the molecule. More specifically, Dr. Wertler wants to find the structliral relat·ionship between molecules and fluoresence (visible li~ht emt ssw:n from a molec:ule following absorption of radiati()n, in this case, light). He hopes to discover what parameters of molecular structure affect the fluorescence of the molecule. His work also inl,:ludes the study of protein .fluorescence and its relationship to protein structure. Flumescence, explains Professor Werner, is an extremely sensitive means of detecting such things as dru.gs, environmental pollutants,. vita m·ins, proteins, and am ina acids. Professor Shen-Wei Wang is in her first year at Union College. Professor Wang, an orgaanic chemist, is in teres ted in heterocyclic chemistry, wt.ich includes such sompounds as chlorophylL She is also interested in protein chemistry, especially in the drug-related fields. · ''I Jove you for what you are, hut /love you yet more for what you are going to he ... \ ·- C1rl So~ndl>urg Chosen but oilct' CJncl clwrislwd forPVN, your PngagNnt •nt and \V<'C ld i ng rings wi II wflect your lov(• in thci r bri IIi ann• <tnd beauty. HCipp i ly you can choost~ l<PPpsakt• with rompll'tP confidPnn• b<'cCJuse th(• guarantt•e assurPs perfPct clarity. pr('c:ise rut and fine, whitt• color. Tlwr<' is no fim•r diamDnd ring. T·M Ruh AH PondCo HOW TO PLAN YOUR ENGAGEMENT AND WEDDING Send new 20 pg. booklet. ··Planning Your Enijagement and Wedding·· plus full color folder and 44 pg. Brides Book gift offer all for only 25¢. sr 4 Namo --------- ·ploast' Punt, Addm:!>li ------- CtiY----- Slain--~~- ----------l•p ------ KEEPSAKE DIAMOND RINGS, BOX 90, SYRACUSE, N.Y. 13201 Find your Keepsalw Jewelers in lhe Yellow pafl&S or doal free 8<l0·243·6000 In Conn. 800·88:>·6500.

Page8 CONCORD!ENSIS, Thursday, Fehmary2l,l974 ' ' . t~· I Dave ~icksvaults to All-American honors. photo credit Kevin Scoles Track Sweeps Again by ALISON SLCA T ... And no~ we're eve11. They've heat en us there and we \ve beaten them here: they being Coach Tim Hale's University of Rochester Yellow jackets. The final score of the quadrangular meet held last hiday night: Union-50~. Rochester-341;2, Albany-28. and Brockport-26. A not her testing is \ct to come, however., as Union':-; thinclads return to Rochester this Saturday for the annual Rochester Invitatior1aL I he running events were initiated with an outstanding display by the Garnet two mile relay team as Steve Jones, Ron Warner, Mark Min<lel. and Tim McCabe combined lor a11 8:01 team time. Minners 1:55 half mile split huilt up such a lead that there was no pressure on anchorman McCabe who finished n~ars ahead of Shaw ( R). Senior ·McCabe later sped t6a 1:14.2 win in the 600, where in the same heat Warner returned for a third in 1:16.3. As expected'_ Cllarlie Drummond had an impressive evening tripling in tfie long and triple jumps and the 55 yd. hurdles. Drummond flew 22'71;,1'\ and over 45' in the respective jumps. Dutchman Roger ·McDonald was only three inches he hind in the long jump and yet sat third in the competition. Drummond later buzzed to a 7.0 second win in the hurdles, thus gaining fifteen of Btockports 28 points. . · Fvery one of Calvin A11derson's leaps in the high jump Was monitored on video t<tpe io assure legal take offs. As a result Cal daimed the win at 6'2\ Dave Plumer, having entered the competition at a I ower height ~ettled for fourth place at 6' hehind a 6' second J>'lace tie held hv Malone (A,) and Straub (R). · Alwavs a t:hreat. Moller of R ochcster sped to a 4:15.2 win in the mile. just missing the IC4A qualifying time. Soph. Steve .Jones ran a· solid race nipping Burns of Albany at the line for a 4:2X.I second. Although not placing, soph. Greg Meyer pounded the track to a 4:41 personal best in the mile run. 1\nother penona I victory hdonged to frosh Bruce Conanno \\ho showed fine form in the pole \iiUlt at II.' Junior Dave Ricks \\as crowned winner of the event at LL '. \Muscle\ Mowrey had an. easy evening as a mere 45'9\ heave gained hitn .the win in the shot put. Fellow weightman AI (iilewic7. tossed the shot 41' lOW' lor fourth. !'he two mile run seemed more like a workout for the Albany sp i kers than an eVent in competition. S tatesrhen Schrader, Longford. Cherubino and Demarco crossed the finish line lor a clean sweep of the event. Schrader\ win in 9: I 2.4. I he ever important mile relay saw Mark Sheuer, Ron Warner. .kff Broomes. and Tim McCabe put together four fine legs, (or eight fine legs, however you want to look at it) for the w-in. McCabe opt'ned up on his Rochester competitor and crossed tile Jine in 3:31.5 for the win. Rochester second in 3:31.9. /\s tensions grow and tempers ~et quicker, the Yellow jackets of Rochester and the Dutchmen of Union will continue to meet at Rochester, at Cortland. at Union <tnd at the State meet. In the end there should 'be sorne sweet comparisons to be drawn in deciding who will rest on top. the 'ictor in what is becoming a two team hattie. ~~~~~~~~~~~~-~~ ([you put your nose to the grindstone rout;h And keep it down there long enoug~. You'll soon forget there are such thmgs As brooks that babble and birds that sing. In time thesl? three will your world compose , Just vouanrl the stone and J'Otlr .noor old nose. ~.A~~~~~~~~~~ f .ast . Sunday a ~oldier landed a stolen helicopter on . the White House Lawn. In a tribute hefitting of the national mood, we can take pride that onlv in America even the lowliest of citizens can have tree access to our·democratic institutions. -Vi. tevrs 0.1te's Mens Shop 453 State St. '(d~••• Schenectady) The Word Spreads by HANK BERNSTEIN AND B-RIAN TUCKER I' he r ol'lowi:ng is a passible L·onvcrsation between a Uni.on College f<:1IJower (:UC) and his friend (F r): . F·r: So how'd U. Coil. do this past \\eek'! ('.(': We remained #J in thc'state, nf course, beating Hamilton, 66- 56. and the Coast Guard .. \cadcmv. 81'-64. Fr: Ha~·ilt(>n. heh? I though you Jemo'lished them by 22 points a few \leek:-. back. So y@U beat the ~amc team again. Big Deal! t 'f: Hamilton is much hetter than that first game score indica.tes: they played a good g.amc against us this time out. Ft: You only bea·t them by 10 p.oin ts. What happened'? l T: Their lone and man-to-man defenses were tough they ,witched real well. We did- miss ,onic ·easy shots in close. ,Besides, Ciugliotta. Kelly, and especially Ahba were ill during the week and thcrcfQre weren't JOor:; hca•lthv. Fr: W.l10 was the high scorer? I'(': Gugliotta canned 17, just ~ ,point helow his average, and both ''Leroy\ and \Mody'' contributed 12 points each. Fr: What 'happened to that high- 'L\oring guard they have from this · a rea'? What's his name anyway'? l' C: Badger ... Mark Badger from \; iskayuna. l don't think he wants to play Union again for a long, long time. Fr: Why? He's averaging close to Freshman Hoop by ANN TAU~ Siena .I ay-vees defeated Union Frosh Monday night for the second time in as many tries. 72- 6X. despite 25 points by Pe_ter Meola arid 21 by Gary 8orgese. In the first me.eting of tl1e two. last Thursday, Siena came out on lop in double over time. 90-79. Once again Borgese and Meola led the Dutchmen with 20 and 16 points respectively. The Indians hnast a 14-4 record. Sandwiched oetween these losses was a victory over RPI's .Ia v•vees. 55-;_51. Led by Steve lh~hn's 17 counters, Union overcame a five point half-time deficit to register their eighth win of the season. Cllach Mike Doyle's Yearlings (X-4) closed out their home season w ed[lesday night and conclud<: a hectic week at Albany State tonight. Dave Ricks: All· American Dav,id Harley -Ricks, a junior, \las recently paid one of the highe.st honors in collegiat~ sports hv being named to the first team of the 1973 Academic AIJ.- American football squad. A starter on t'hy Union Varsity team fl>r two years. Ricks was one of t\H) defensive backs to receive this \.ear's All-American honors. · In addition to being a fine lnod?all player, Dave's 3.44 CM.m. index as a math major made him eligible for consideration. A native of Point Pleasant. \.J .. Ricks is also one of the co- l'aptains of the 1974 indoor track tea In arid holds the Union CoUegc pole vauJt rec()rd at 14'~.\ I X points a game, isn't he'? l'C: Sure. but when he plays against the Dutchmen, he has to contend with ,I ohn l)enio. Fr: I heard Denio was pretty go.od ... l'C: Pretty good'? Are you crazy'? llc's l'ahulous defensively! Badger onlv score.d 4 points the entire gan\1e. That's 2 less points than he tallied in the first l Lnion; Hamilton game. More gtlys \get put away\ by Denio ... It's incredible: Even Coach Scanlon .praised him, He said. \.John Denio is by far the 'best defensive player on the ball that f\·c ever seen in the area .and possibly in the· nation. He has :.rich determination and grea.t ~reed. l\~Uffi~·'-1 Ju~~ don't like hringing 'the 'hall 4Pcourt &gainst him.\ ·· · Fr: 0. K. !'lOJRI~ 1 ... l T: Remern'ber also how ( ·armodv compliments Denio t hev wo~k well together. Molly is \intelligent ·- he knows when to help and when to hold. He's alwavs talking.\ Enough said? Fr: Stop! I'm sorry! l'C: That's all right. It really \\ asn't o.ne of the Garnet's better !.!ames, but they did play well ~-nough to win and that's irnporta'nt. Isn't it'? Fr:' True! How about the Coast < i uard? They weren't much competition. were they'? l'(': ~o. we kina of outclassed them, even with Abba on the hench for the entire game due to 1heflu. We had a 19pointlead at the half. Fr: Wow! that's q;uite a comfortable lead .. Who was doing all the scoring'? l' C: Gugliotta and Denio scored 37 of'the 49. first half points lor llnion, Charlie ended up with 22 f6r the contest;. while Denio shot 12 for 16 from the field and I foul shot for 25 points to lead all scorers i_n the game. Fr: Sounds like Denio proved to h.c the difference again. l'(': What can you say? Not only did he play tough defense, but he sp<trkled offensivejy. Don\t for#et, though, Kelly -was reboundtng and moving well and Carmody had 8 assists with liOme pinpoint passing. Fr: Was Scanlon pleased? l' C: He · wasn't ecstatic. He cotnmented• tWut the team .Played !!ood defense, hut their hands ~•eren't alwavs' . tlH and they therefore al'lhWed ~P'lot of shots to he taken. Fr: He must have at least emptied his bench. l'C: Oh. sure; except he was a bit disappointed with the reserves. They !iidn't ~play such .good defense a!ld they Went scoreless for over g min.utes in the second half. He knows they'll play better 1 hough they'll just have to contin.ue to work hard. That's all. Fr: That's an understatement. h:eryonc's gonna have lt) Work hard! I hear Union has got its hands f:ull with Utica last night. Tufts on Friday night. and Binghamton State Saturday night. l ·c: How did you know'? I just hope everyone fills the fieldhouse For t·hcsc Important games. I'd really like to see an SRO crowd lor the Tufts game. Fr:· I'll be there. I 'know how much t:he fans really do help. Besides. Tufts is probably one. of the toughest teams the Garnet hm·e faced all season. They are big and tall: averaging over 90 p('lints a game fhis season. They also have a good· bench. Remember. too, that this is the s<il11e squad that went 22-4 last \ear and were E.C.A.C. New ·England Regional Champs. l'here's no question. They are good! l T: l.i·sten! Don't worryt Unio.n · is lust as solid if Hot more so! \\'i.lh the spirit each player has and the tremendous fans in the stands. - the Dutchmen will continue their winning ways. You can -count on that! There.'s (iugliotta. Abba, Kelly .... Fr: Listen! I've got to go. See YoU at the game. BULtETIN Wednesdav night. Union celeo'tated Charlie Gugliota's oirthdav with a f'rosh and \ arsity · sweep over Utica College. lhe freshmen won 91-34 as C'lete McLaughlin pumped in I 6 and Tom Cook 13. Charlie G .. John Denio and Hill Carmodv led the big boys to a 71-53 \;ictory with 21. 14 and 13 points respectively. Details in next week's edition. Milt Herring, unde.feating in the 50-yd. dash this winter. accepts c:on~ratulatinm.. photo credit Kevin Scoles __ .. -- .. 1.. \ / ~, ' I 0 ) • J r) (. (; ·~·\

__ .. - !, ... ! ' '' ,. -·· \' . ..,.. ~. ~ \ J c ( ., \ 1.) ~ \': (. (; \. Steering-Social Committee Meeting Tuesday, Mar.ch 5 Hale House Lounge 7;30Show Up \Tact consists in knowing how far we ~a.y go too far.\ Jean Cocteau Women's Caucus BSA Dance Saturday, 8:30, in the gyQI Vol.l03, No. 13 Thursday,.February 28, 1974 A Three-Story Enigma by JUDY OEIN A. College Center may exist in name here at Union, but certainly not in spirit. Despite hopes of stndents, faculty, and ad:Jllinistrators, the grand opening ofthe former engineering building last spring d.id. not instigate an immediate rush to bring studehts closer together and dispel the sense of loneliness felt by so many. Nor <;loes it appear t'ha t the Center will serve as the focal point ·of student life if it Femains in its present form - quiet, empty, and just plain ugly. The trQth of the rna tter is that the Col'lege Center has very little to offer students. It does boast ~ few snack tables and · candy machines, but there is no way to get' any change for the machines which requ·ire exact c'hange. Installing change machines is not feasible due to the high degree of vandalism which plagues the building. Anyway, how conducive is it to sit and solve the wot]d•s prol>lems in a bare~walled toom while eating a candy bar and listening to silence? (The J,uke box has been taken away). At present. the Center's snack room cannot hope to compete with the Skeller, which provides hot food, beer. pinball, and plenty of people. A few students do make use of the ping.,pong and billiard tables available fret;: to Union students with ~heir LD. cards. Even fewer N:ew,·· :fllm ::. ... -. ~ . .- ·'.;!~.·.· .i; \Pooling\ our resources in the College Center. photo by Vi talk and/ or study. in Stra!Jss Lot1nge, the on.Iy. really· comfortable room in the building. There is just nothing in the Cen·ter which could attract a large number of students, which is its main purpose. The problem remains, how should the College Center be made more attractive to the College'? Proposals Offered It may come as a surprise for many, but suggestions which would definitely help the Center flourish have been, and are being considered. Plans to locate all . student and faculty mailboxes there have top priority. hundred dollars has been allocated in next year's budget. The group originally involved with the planning of the Center greatly undeJ:estimated the costs of construction. It seems that the building itself is not physically sound, and mor; construction than planned was needed. Provisions for kitchens and an elevator for mail trucks were not made. Still, the center can serve as a gathering place for more students than it does now. This can only come- through stucl·ent participation. Strauss Lounge is open until midnight every week night, and is an excellent place to study or just talk. When studying Continued on Page 4 35 cents Grade System Re-examined by FRED WEINSTEIN Last Monday night, in the Hale House Faculty Lounge, a panel discussion was held on alternative grading systems, principally the proposed 12-point grading system (A:;4.0, A-=3. 7, B+=J.5, 8=3.0, etc.). The panel consisted of Professor Ludwig, Professor Wells, Dean Lichterman, and Dean Craig. Prior to the discussion, Paul Corwin, senator-a t-·lar ge, reviewed the history of the proposed 12-point system. According to Corwin, in early November the Senate amended a proposal for an 8-point system (A=4.0, 8+=35, B=J.O, etc.) to a 12-.point system. However, a:t:ter receiving negative feedback from students the Senate reconsidered in late November, and decided to cancel any grading change pending further review of the situation. On March 21, the Senate wiU present a progress report · on the review of the alternative grading system. Pro Change Once the panel discUssion commenced, the faculty and students were generally in opposition. All four members of the panel believed that the change to· a 12-point system would be beneficial to students. Professor Wells stated that under the present 5-point system, \I haven't been able to reward the . border line student.\ (i.e. a student' in the B+ category). Wells felt that the institution of the 12- point system would allow him to reward such students. He did feel, though, that the 8-point system would be acceptable. Professor Ludwig stated that \grades have no meaning\ in the context of a student's educational experience, but if we must have a grading system he believes the 12- point systetn affords the best evaluation of. a student's performance. Dean Lichterman indicated that today·s situation calls for a grading system which provides for greater differentiation of student performances. He cited the findings of an educational survey which reported that employers and graduate school and professional school admission officers are all calling for a more specific grading system, since it would allow them to increase the accuracy of their evaluations. The recent trend in colleges and universities has been to change to the 12-point system; Lichterman indicated that remaining on the 5- point system might have adverse effects on Uriion students competing for jobs and for positions in graduate schools and professional schools. . Com:mittee, by ALAN GNESSIN Having all the . mailboxes located in one spot would 'force students to leave their dorms and .,, meet others. It would also provide ·commuters with a place to obtain campus news. It has also been suggested th4t the Student Activities Office be moved into the ~enter, so that all student organizations and events would revolve around one central place. H. E. W. Awards Grant Dean Craig acquiesced with the proposed change to a 12-point system, however, he indicated he was \bothered by the absence of A+.\ He cited cases where he gave a group of students A's even though there were clear differences in the quality of their work. Student Response Student opposition to the 12- point system focused on the convictions that l) the effect of the 12-point system would be punitive rather than rewarding and 2) competition for grades would increase. The Steering Committee recently resolVed, in response to the pending d:issolution of Film Haps (Corp.,), to establish a new committee (hereafter referred to as the Film Committee or Committee) to succeed it. The new Film Committee would be directly responsible to the Steering Audit Committees, and would operate in conjunetion with the Director .of Projection Facilities (Jim Alberg) and the Assistant Dean of Students (Leroy Moore). The Committee would consist of five members chosen by the Committee-on-Committees, and WoUld function in the selection of filrns to be screened, as Well as the determination of price (·pos~ibly as low as 50Q:), dates, times, etc. Within the Committee itself two positiQns have be·en designated: one is liaison to tile film distributors and the other is 'bookkeeper', working 1n conjunction with ·Mrs. Marra. . Those who are chosen to serve on this Committee will officially take office at the end of this term but will begin to plan the film schedule. for the spring sooner than that. This means the Film Committee for the first session will sit an extra long term, four semesters instead of three. At the moment a sign-up sheet is available in the Student Activities Office for those parties inter.ested in being appointed to this comtnittee. These people will receive a list of questions and an application form from. the Committee on Committees. The deadline for initial application is March 5. Competition with the Skeller could be created. A snack bar, possibly run by Saga since th.eir present contract .gives them the right to run any food service on campus, would be more conducive to student interaction than candy machines are: Possibilities of having a bar and a newsstand or ~ven a small grocery store are under consideration. Attempts at beautifying Carnegie must also be made. Dean Smith has suggested open art studios, and display of artwork in the halls. Carpeting could only improve the building, and would also eliminate the echoes which fill the halls.-A new paint scheme, te cover the plain white, has been recommended. Lack of Money If all these great plans have been suggested, why then have they not been instituted? The answer lies in the age-old Union problem: no money .. According to Dean Smith, a mail room alone would cost at least $30,000. Assistant Dean of Students LeRoy Moore, recently placed in charge of the College Center's activities, feels that at least $1 1;2 million is needed to complete the first floor alone; only a few ~~,!~ t, R. If> C:.t:lfllll'lCt' '\l'o UlllioN- 1>1\Riil\l'f'$ WEei(I!?Mto ~ 'l:>U L L~ ~· 'U Special to CONCORDIENSIS The Comparative Communist Studies program at Union has received a $23,521 grant from the Federal Department of Health, Education and Welfare. The Communist Studies program, begun at Union three years ago, is under the direction of Associate Professor of Political Science Charles Gati. It features interdepartmental academic work in economics, history, . political science, literatute, and languages of the Communist world. Jhe grant money has been utilized to fund several new courses: Professor Bertell Oilman of New York University Is teaching \Introduction to Marxism\ this term; the junior seminar in Comparative Communist Studies, with Professors Berk and Gati, is also financed by the grant. · Two courses will be introduced this spring through the HEW funding. Professors Kershner, of the Economics Department. and Thimm. of the Institute of Administration and Management, will present \Topics in East~West Trade.\ A new course entitled \Literature of Disseht in the Soviet Union~' will be taught by Visiting Instructor Ms. Jernakoff, of the Moder.n Languages Department. Both new offerings are intended to featUre several guest lecturers. In addition to curricular augmentation, .the funding to Communist Studies has permitted Union to attract a number of guest speakers during the current academic year. From March 12 to 14 (Tuesday to Thursday), Professor Marshall D. Shulman will be on campus. Shulman is Professor of Government at Columbia University and Director of Columbia's Russin Institute. He will visit three classes and will present a public lecture, \Detente After the Middle East,\ on Wednesday, March 13. The HEW monies also make possible faculty members' travel to conferences in the pertinent field of scholarsl}ip. The HEW grant is drawn from National Defense Education Act funds designated for \strengthening the interna tiona! dimensions of general education at the undergraduate. level.\ The change would be punitive, it was felt. because professors, unable to evaluate performances as precisely as the 12-point system requires, would downgrade students' work. For the same reason, some students supported a change to an 8 point system. Professors Ludwig, Wells, and Craig indicated they would have no problem in making the distinctions the 12-point system requires. A student who identified himself as a pre-med indicated his Continued on Page 7 Mawla-.d, U.N. for spoke in Old Chapel on Thursday, Feb. 21.

Page2 CONCORDIENSIS, Thursday, • February 28, 1974 You Sa.i·d .ft! Editors-in-chief ................. Judy Dein, Bill Talis News Editor ............................. Phyllis Eddman Culture EditoL ................................. Pete Sobol Sports Editor ................................. Bart Mer!!er Photo Editor ................................. Bill Erichson t Ass't Photo Editor ................... , Leslie Steineker Copy ,Editor ............... , ..... ~ .......... ~ ~:-· :eh~l Alcabes Blithering Editors .................... Rob Mondschein. ·Chris O'Connor Business Editor ............................. Al~m Gnessin National Advertising ........... , .......... Steve Kelley Subscriptions Editor ............... Gene Rosenblum Layout. .... : ............ Dav~ Strom, Linda Mackey · Conoordiemls is publistted every Thursday by the student body of Union College, Old Gym Hall, Schenectady. N.Y .. Publications Office,. The Jewish World Publications. 771 State St.. Schmectady, N.Y., 12307 (346-2356). Entered in the Schenectady Post Office as Second Class Matter. Subscription Rate 35 cents per copy. $8 .. 00 a year .delivered ~nywhere in the United States. Deadli~ for C?.PY !s T~~~day S:OO P.M. Agenda Bender The events and repercussions of last Committee meeting serve to cloud the relationships of committee to committee, member. week's Steering already obscure and member to Two critical issues have emerged. First, the mell!bers of the Steering Committee were presented with a proposal to discuss · abolishing the Social Committee. The members of both the Social and Steering Committees were not informed that discussion concerning this topic would occur. for no mention of the topic appeared on the agenda. Second, the Steering Committee had delayed long enough the appointment of the Social Committee Chairman such that this committee's efficiency ·for spring term may already be impaired. Arrangements for groups, concerts, and activities must take place well in advance, and without the spring term Chairman such arrangements cannot take place. The ramifications of these two developments may have a great impact on social life at Union. By ignoring Steering Committee prerogatives of establishing the agenda, . a dangerous precedent has been set forth. The impositions placed on the Social Committee by delaying the appointment of a new chairman reduce the Committee's options for planning events. to the detriment of the social well-being of this College. Let us hope that in the future, our student government will take steps so as to minimize its inherent weaknesses. Opinion Sexist Singing by BLAIR REISCHER Sunday's joint concert with Wheaton College Glee Club brings up a question which ought to be resolved. This is: Union is now in its fourth year of glorious co-education. and we have in our midst some five hundred women. Why is it. then, that our talented Cilee Club must look to other colleges for female voices to supplement its own tenors and !lasses? Surely there must. be at least fifty Union women who want to sing, and would if only given the chance? A I low me to say that Union \'omen have organized a women's rhorus which has already endowed us with a sampling of their music. The size of this group. not the quality, allegedly rrohibits it from singing with the Cilee·-·nub. My point here is to criticize the Administration in general for their sexist mores. as evidenced· here. and the Arts Department in ·rarticular. for failing to promote the female singing group with the \arne vigor with thich they foster the Glee Club. The prevalent attitude is that \yes. they can sing if they want to.\ Let us see some active encouragement on the part of !loth the Arts Department and the Administration. \'hich exists right here. as well as that from elsewhere. There is no reason why. because we have a 'exist admissions policy. we should allow the same attitudes to rermeate the rest of the College. ···>-:;~:,.,, ~­ Kelley Criticizes Editors: Concordiensis, ... It would be novel, even in Concordy's witty tongue-in-cheek style, to see some support behind any group ofstudentsworking for Unicm. Since it seems to be 'the fashion to be as derisive as possible; it remains for those who have some grasp of the situation to continually clarify Concordy's errors. Several cases in point, are ~ easily found. Beginning with issue one, we have Pete Sobol's exercise in creativity concerning Film Haps. Where were the facts? In issue two, in Sobol's corrections and in letters to the editors. Also in issue two. we have a potent little attack upon the Women's Caucus for their lack of a \ruling elite,\ a concept damned by Concordy in issue one. One does wonder how this unguided group is able to organize and present Women's. Week. This leaves last week's issue, where Concordy roasts ·the Social Committee; where once again we see Peter Sobol's creativity. Having been present when Sobol interviewed M.iller, 1 find it hard to believe some of his statements supposedly learned from Peggy. In issue one, the editors maintain that Concordy is a sounding board, that everything can be heard in Concordy. Unfortunately, it is what they offer as reporting. In seeking to. provide \more ' lively reading material,.\ they have decides to write cute cuts directed at everything from the Steering Committee to the Social ' Committee to the Women's Caucus. It can't, or shouldn't, be the obiigation of those who r.ead Concordy to correct the \facts'' - or present the facts for the first time ertoneously reported the week before. Bring back Concordy from the .. well-read\ to the \well-written.\ Kelley Newton * * * * Concordy Kicked Editors, Concordiensis, Concordy started this term on the wrong foot by printing 'misinformation about Film Haps and about the Women's Caucus. It seems. looking at the latest issue. that nothing was learned from these past mistakes. The front page articles and the editorial \Poor Choice,\ . concerning the Social Committee. were full of misinformation and innuendo. Worse. only material that seemed to support the preconceived notions of the writers was included. Non- supportive material, such as a letter from· Jeff Wisoff Which stated that decisions made by the I do not Want an end to inter- college performances. No doubt the presence of some fifty women for the weekend was noticed arid appreciated by many Union men. But let us foster the talent Pre-Med Defense League prepares for throat culture. The League's plans for picketing the Social Sciences today was cancelled due to an impending organic exam. photo 1 by Vi committee were made as a gtoup, was omitted. ln fact, in your frantic effort to create exciting expose (a Ia Enquirer) almost no positive information -about anything has a·ppeared on your pages. It is now high time for the staff to begin to read, not just print, the letters you ·receive. (Bravo, Heidi Steger!) It is to be hoped that your responsibility to have a positive effect on this campus, Qt at least to present the correct and total picture of the facts en any issue, will not he so grossly violated in the future. Jeffrey Weilberg * * * * Editors Note - The letter written by Jeff Wisoff was in response to an article which was withheld from publication for a week. Therefore, we deem it inappro- priate to reveal responses to any article before that article is published. * * * * Kick Blocked Editors: Co.._ncordiensis, I was pleased to read Peter Sobol's article in last week's Concordy. It was a pleasant change to see a reasonabfy accurate article on the Social Committee. However as a member of the committee I must challenge one allegation, i.e. that decisions are made unilaterally by the chairperson, Peggy Miller. In fact no decision· has ever been made by only one· person. Normally, all matters are decided by a v;ote of the entire committee at a meeting. Over vacations and in extreme situations four people (chairman, assistant chairman, publicity director and stage manager} may make an emergency decision. Union has enough rumors; please don't be party to another one. Jeff Wisoff '74 * * * * Brown Knows Editors: Concordiensis, BULLETIN. November, 1973: Steering Committee. after polling students and learning of disatis- faction with· newly passed grading proposal, it goes back to the All- College Senate who successfully pushes for its revocation; BULLETIN, January, 1974: Steering Committee begins preparation of new off-campus housing hooklet, providing legal information and apartment list-ings; BULLETIN, February. 1974: campl.[s does, indeed, march. Hopin~ that we can continue our close working relationship, I rertia,ia, Sincerely, Larry Br~wil, ·where Are Yf;ru? Editors-: Concordiensi$, 'jl! hile attending the· basketball game against Utica College we were appalled at the :poor atten- dance. ()ver one half of the 2500 seats, 111ere empty in the newly renovated $300,000 Fieldho1,1se. Tl\lis apathy on the .part of the community could l;>e understood if the t~IUs involved were of poor qua,Ji~y. H-owever, Union is. the Number {)n~ ranked team in New York State. The action is fas~ and exciting. One does not even have to know a great d~al about the sport t~ enjoy the fast quick play of the Union .squa<f. On top of this. if's free. If one traveled to New York City, he might find comparable action, but have to pay $4' or $5 for a lousy seat. The maximum number of students attending a home game ~at Union this year has been 800. That is not .even one half of the student population. Is Union that difficult .a school so that one cannot spare two hours on a Friday night to watch a good hoop· game? No wonder the Board of Trustees makes decision~ like cutting the Athletic hudget first, when cuts .are made, or joining the ridiculous N ESCA C which prohibits Union . from pa.rticipating in post season NCAA Tournament play. Let's . .get off our asses and get • our nos~s out of the books ancj support some of the athletic prograltls at Union. George Fusner seats (Ire empty is open to pers.onal interpretation. photo by Ian Gluck Steering Committee directs Student Life Committee to examine possibility of installing twenty~four hour Campus-Wide Information Service, providing G\d 'lnd Dr·ama sports scores, meeting times, etc. · U _II . . . · BULLETIN. February, 1974 = Editors: C()ncordiensis, Steering Committee votes to take A of sl-.ameful example over the Film Haps responsi- attempted suppression is under- bilities. starting next term. way to keep in the dark a work of providing weekly films at the art that we feel deserves a fair reduced prices of $,OO to $.SO. chance to be seen. We are not BULLETIN, October, 1973 : talking a·bout Solzhenitsyh and Steering Committee· begins Russia. Ware talking about negotiating with Saga Food 0 . 1 V 1 t\ u · tild t · f\ u · · d ame ·. a en 1, a mon s . en , Service to o 1er . niQn stu ents .. d U . , C'- . · 1 · .. ·F· .ll· h'· h t fl \bl· f d 1 · an· mons ... ns Jan e ows 1p. t e mos ex1 · · e oo p an· m · , · . · . N Y . St t o·b·. t'v . allow The purpose of thiS letter IS to . . a e. ~ec I e. . t.. • h · 'd J' h · d students to use food card in (a) ormg t e me!. ent to tg t m or er W t C ·JJ o· · Ha·ll (b) to ex.pose Its unfa.vorable and es 0 ege mmg . . h . . r . Hale House, or (c) 'Skelfar. t reatenrng 1m:p tcatmns .. Committee meets tonight with Mr .. V~lentl ha.s wr;Jtten a M H d H . d · ·f Sag· a to controverstal. mult1-medm. play, r. age one, . ea o • · . . 1 d ·'\A d' \ th· t k t d t . 1 entlt e . n mmo.. a Is. wor ou e a1 s. · . BULLETIN. February, 1974: currently bemg sc~eened .by S · c · 'tt p ·d t Mounte~anks for poss1ble stagmg tecrmg ommt ee res1 en . · . d · h sends to the Afl-College Senate a' nex;t semester. last Sun ay mg . t · · · . · Ronald !Jullock and Nancy resolutwn tmplonng the President C k t' th p II of Union College to remove our ~ 00 s. represen mg ··e., e ow- h I b f NESCAC ,ship. cane to Mr. Valenti s room sc oo as a mem er o • d . . 1 • h f 11 • \f h · b h' f bid.s our an gave urn t e o owmg I sue mem ers IP or . . . ultimatum CGI1cerning the play: sports teams to compete m .. h h bl' 1 th national post-season tau rna- etlt er edpu ktc y 'trenouncef e p ay an ta e 1. way rom ments. Moun tel> an ks consideration, or Yes. toncordiensis staff. you he w~u:Jd meet \strong were tight about one thing: The Student Government on this Conti11ued on pagt. 7 • ~· • \) j ''i • <u .. ·i ~- ., it . ' ' .. l·l ., l .l . '\') I. . .-. • • ' I r:~ I i '(; '1. . .. \'·· • (l i ..

,7~\- •., ~~ .,.·~ ~ ... ·'·, ,~ • • 1 .? . t··· ' I' ... j ' fl, .. · -~ ·'! i .. v .. 4 ~- ' 'l i! ' .. t.1 ;< ., l .! • I ·\) . .... ... \ ... ; ,\ l t< \ ,. '! ) • \'• J ~ I> 1 ..:t -· { ~ I 1 l I • l ~ I : J Jl. . f 'j l r ii'it -(, { ' .~ '; II \ . ' • ·~ • • 0 • t. ·• ( .. (}' . Page3 CO/IlCO RDIENSJS, Thur$day, February 28, 1974 .. 0 . . . plJIIOD W by Perspective? The following letter was sent to President Martin by a student's parent. It is reprinted here at the request of that parent. The comments of the editors of Concordy and Perspective follow. Mr. Harold C. Martin, President: It has always been my opinion that one of the functions of our university system was .to prepare young men and young women to enter life as worthwhile members of a functioning democratic society. · · It behooves me ~o see that the Universify permits the ,negro (sic) student population of the College to edit and distribute through the facilities of· the university newspaper, Concordiensis, Perspective, rhe Union College B!ack Stude,nts Alliance. t;Jewspaper. Ofcaurse, ·the obvtous question to the Untverstty should be,. why not the '\Italian Students of America,\ \The Arab Students Union Newspaper''? You realize that this list can go on indefinitely. For what practical purpose does this e'xpression of these students further our understanding and involvement of the democratic processes. By t·his ,publication, the University admits that the negro students who are enrelled in the College do not contribute to the well-beiag of the institution, but have formed a separate ... power blac\ and have demanded and received financial support for this newspaper froni the College. If the student newspaper, Concordiensis, is unable to entertain or utilize the endeavours of all the students, what is the function of the students' newspaper? · . I believe the College should take steps to delist- this publication immediately and/ or include the negro students' newsworthiness as part ·of the reg.ular news and features that occur and are reflorted through Coneordiensis. Sincerely yours, , Richard Strom Editor's Note:\Perspective\ receives no funding from the school; Concordieilsis is financed by student tax money, and it is solely the decision of the Concordy editors to allocate money for the publication of \Perspective.\ Ski Competition by COACH The words Union College skiing conj.ure up visions of night skiing at West Mountain, cross- country skiing in the Gardens, and occasional. day trips to Vermont. But there is anoth·er ~ide to Union College skiing: the competitive side. Union's ski team participates in the ECAC Division H West Ski League, attending up to five meets a year, weather permitting. At each meet all schools in the Division compete for team and individual honors in each of four events: slalom, giant slalom, cross- country; and jumping. place ninth and fifteenth respectively in the slalom event out ofafieldofsixty. Tom \T.C.\ Karis placed eighteenth in cross- country .and nineteenth in jumping. Union's point total was 18. The team, which includes . seniors Dick Maid and Dick Samuels,. junior Brant Bottum, sophomores Steve Walters, Dave Hardman, Ron Warner, Jim Thompson, Bill Peck, and fresh- men Mike Mcinerney, Peter Parker, Lincoln Walworth, Parker Anton, Rick Nalle, Bob Morrison, travels to Cortland this weekend to compete in the final meet of the year. A More Perfect Union With the coming of a new editorship of Concordiensis, the choice whether or not to continue publishing \Perspective\ as an i11sert into Concordy once again had to be made. Much consideration was put into the final decision to continue the publication of the Black Student AHiance newspaper. As we explain our reasoning, we hope that the need for \Perspective\ will become apparent. Union College as any other college, is in many ways a · miniature world. It is a place where every student brings his ideo logy and prejudices. Unfortunately, it cannot be denied that racial bigotry exists in the understand or represent the black Ol,ltside world. E.ven more, minority on campLis. Therefore unfortunately, some. of this hatred ''Perspective\ exists. fhe answer has seeped into Union College. to the \obvious question ... why Black students have faced not the \Italian Students of \nigger\ scrawled across Hickok America,\ \The Arab Students House, and have been confronted Union Newspaper?\ is simply that with such taunts as \what .are you these groups feel that they are doing here, you are just wasting properly represented at Union. If good money.\ Other anti-black they did, more group papers sentiments have been expressed would be published. more subtly. ''One of our university system's As is often true of minority functions is to prepare young men group members, some blacks find and women for entrance into a themselves reading meanings into functioning democratic society.\ statements unjustifiably. What this statement fails to How ever, blacks may be expected recognize is that the preparation to fear racial discrimination on a is pr.imarily designed for young mostly white campus. Their white men and women. If the history has taught them that they' university system adequately ,ii::: .. B··I ... u .. · e,· s ''R. ·.e· .t. ·u. r· n.· have not been fully accepted into prepared all young men and white American society. Whether women, there would be no reason the feeling of discrimination at for Tndian people to have the Union is well founded is not the highest suicide rate ofany group most important issuei the facts of in America. There would be no history matter less than one's need for laws making it possible perception of history. No student for non-whites to li-ve in white on campus views Union as a neighborhoods. There would be black school, nor do many blacks no reason for conditions .to exist see Concordy as their newspaper. which would cause black (please, by JOSEPH FEINBERG \Roomful of Blues\ is r.eturning to Union College to play fot a dance given by the U nion·College Social Committee on Saturday, March 9. \Kit Rachlis of The Real Paper recently stated \In a city in undated by local blues bands, 'Roo mfu1 of Blues' has esta:blished itself. .. as the area's 111 ost v.ital new group since James iv1 ontgomery. The range and sophistication of the eight-piece M ues aggregation extands from .the swing sounds of Count Basie and Benny Goodman to the California rhythm and blues of Roy Milton and Pee Wee Crayton to the urban blues of B. B. King and Freddy King. \Roomful of Blues' is more than just an obscurist's delight and they may not be just a local hand for very long.\ Peter Herbst of the Boston Herald American said, \Another group, perhaps the most exciting to come along in several years <1nd definitely the most unique, is 'Roomful of Blues'.\ \fhe dance will be held from .~:30 p.m. to 12:30 a.m. in the AI umni Gym and will also be featuring the \Edward C. Fox Blues Band.\ Beer will be sold for 10 cents; one dollar admission v.ill be charged at the door for llnion Students, $2.00 others. Every minority group has a not \negro\) students ·to feel choice: it can either .try and alienated on a white university assimilate into American culture, campus. or it can be American while \Perspective\. serves as a retaining a group (e.g. racial. sounding board for the blacks at religious) culture. At this point we Union. It is a place where must determint: what a \black students can write without the culture\ is. fear of being censored by white We cannot determine a st,udents, faculty, or criterion for ·being \black as we Administration. cannot honestly describe a Eliminating \Perspective\ will member of any other group. The not· make the strain between ethnic or racial identity is a blacks and whites on this campus personal feeling. However, a disappear. It will simply be seen group which is struggling to as another move by the white retain its identity usually wants to Administration to stifle the have a knowledge of its history, blacks. Black students will not and, more important, to be proud write the same articles for of that history. A need to assert Concordy as they do for one's heritage often derives from \Perspective\ since they do not outsiders' attempts to deride one's feel that Concordy can represent culture. their views. At Union, many blacks are Prejudice is the child of being transported to an alien ignorance. Hopefully black and world, that of a white, affluent, white students will read both college community ... ~he , ?I~c.k ('oncordy and \PersfJective\ to Student Alliance was formed for iearn about all aspects of College the same reasons that any group life. This is why \Perspective\ would form; its members find exists. support 1 rea s sura nee, and editors of Concordiensis friendship in it. Many blacks feel and Perspective that Concordiensis, or any other \white\ publication, cannot fully ~,.In the past Union has suffered from mediocre performances in aU events. It must be pointed out that we ski against such skiing super-powers as Army, whose ski team budget is $20 ,000 versus Union's $850, Cornell, and Syni.- cuse. In addition most of the other teams are coached and practice more than Union's team, which practices once a week at West. Bay on Citizenship So far this year the team has participated in two meets, one shortened by the weather. In the complete meet held at Song . Mountain and Skytop at Syracuse, Union placed ninth in an eleven team field. Army won the meet on its strong showing in the Nordic events and its consistency in Alpine. ·Stevie \Wonder\ Schiff and 1·ed \Coach\ IUandy managed to by PHYLLIS EDELMAN Voting is a sham which strengthens the illusion of d em·o·cra tic government. according to Dr. Christian Bay, Political Science professor at the ll niversity of Toronto. Dr. Bay said however, \We all need this illusion, but we should . try to shed it... political ideas have heen reduced to commodities,\ giving a passive conception of citizenship. \Citizenship activity,\ Dr. Bay said, \should replace passive activity.\ Dr. Bay claimed that the \majority .of the people do lloop fan takes advontage of Union's lead to catch up on some throating. - photo credit Jan Gluck take part in electiOns as an t) hli,gati<ln or because of personal issues, but rarely due to a sense of ecmcern with greater issues.\ Citizens. he stressed should have an \equal share in the actual use of power to determine public p<1licy at a high level of irnrortance.\ Drawing on works of other political scientists. Dr. Bay noted that evidence of the feasibility of .P<Jlitical participation is determined by the belief one has tlf the ability to make changes in his own life. The saliency of 'rolitics. i.e., the outcomes which will make a difference in terms of .re-wards, punishments, or one's duty to be a citizen, are also taken in to consideration in political participation, according to Dr. Bay. Basically, Dr. Bay noted that 1111 rnen and women have the capaci.ty for participatory citi1ensh ip. however, this capacity re :rna ins latent due to anxieties arld other interests. People, said Dr. Bay, perceive their problems as private and do not try 'to relate them to public issues. People. Dr. Bay claimed, must he educated, must ''learn we are ca p a b I e of d em ocr a tic participatory citizenship.\ Br. Bay's lecture on Wed .• Feb. 201h was sponsored by the fl(>litical Forum. He is the author of The Structure . of Freedom as well as numerous articles, including some • on political science education. \Combined Union- Wheaton Glee Clubs pe,r.form. ,., photo credit Bill .Erichson Glee Club Performs by BLAIR REISCHER' Last Sunday 150 people gathered in Memorial Chapel to hear the Wheaton and Union College Glee Clubs. The program included Schube'rt's Miriam's Song of Triumph and Shutz's Three Motets ~n a religious vein, and uncommonly good arrangements of The E-ri-e and of When .Johnny comes marching home in t:he American F'olk tradition. These last two were performed by the Union singers only. Hy far the most enjoyable part of the program was Americana by Randall Thompson. This piece is a set of five articles from The American Mercury set to music; it comprises a report of a sermon, an Ann Landers-type column. a propaganda article from the Women's Christian Temperance llnion. a gory report on The Sublime Process of Law Enforce- ment, and some Announcements. In Americana, Thompson ingeniously uses all the parts of the choir in strange and amusing ways. Both the Union and the Wheaton groups sang this with character, which is especially pleasing. The same program will be performed at Wheaton C'ollege on March 10.

Page4 CQNCORDIENSIS, Thursday, February 28, 1974 Financial Flush Count Your Chickens Before They Special to CONCORDIENSIS Joseph T. Maras, Director of Student Aid, has issued a reminder to all students who have borrowed under the Guaranteed Loan or National Direct (D~fense) Student Loan, and the Umon College Loan Programs. State and Federal laws are clear in stating that these funds· are only to be used to co.ver costs of .educational expenses. The rnonies are legally repayable, and so borrowing should be limited to an <;~bsolute minimum. None of t;hese l0ans will be 'written ofr' by any future legislation. Upon graduation from Union, the student should immediately contact the lender, making plans to arrange a payment schedule. Payments should be made on time; additional payments ought, when possible, to be made along with regular ones. problem, you may be surprised by the understanding response you will get.\ Regularity of payments accomplishes two things. It reduces the debt and establishes a good repayment situation with the lender; it results in achieving a good credit rating with private lenders for possible future loans. The student is advised not to let the loan go into default. As Maras puts it, \Your reputation is at stake. Avoid the 'c0Uector,' the 'dunner,' and the bad credit finger that could be pointed at you.\ Rl DE\RS by LAUREN GORDON Carol Valentine, of the Education Division of Schenectady Planned Parenthood (located at 414 Union Street, 374- 5353), sp.oke to a gmup of interested listeners in a program that was part of Women's Week, Ms. Valentine, a young-looking 33 year-old mother and foster parent, presented a detailed' disc\}sston on the role ot Plaaned Parenthood and the pro& and cons of birth control methods. She entertained questions from . the a1:1dience which frequently anticipated a subject that she was 1going to bring up. · Planned l?arenthood is a medical elinic; :S.P.P. has been here for forty years. It operates' with ten doctors, two of whom are women, a female nurse ~ practitioner, and a number of counselors. There are no social Maras counsels: \If you find yourself in a bind don't let it ride. Advise your lender about your Drug Help Frat News by MARC ALTMAN Among the myriad organizations on the Union C~llege campus, there is a healthy new. one, the \Fraternity Presidents Council.\ It is ad vised by Bill Kuchta of the External Affairs Office. The purpose of the council ·is to serve as a forum at which all of Union's fraternities can discuss hath ·individual and joint problems. These problems have included social functions, cultural by BLAIR REISCHER Two Union students. Bryan Cook an4 Jim D'errico, arc planning to set up a drug counseling center on campus. \We are trying to get an office in the Old Gym or in Carnegie:· said Cook. discussing his plans for the center. \We have hopes that the College will cooperate fully with us, and provide the counseling center with a Center Continued from Page 1 events, public service projects, t d and the image of fraternities on g~ s too epressing, hitting a pmg-pong ball over the net is campus. · 1 Th .. certam Y less painful than hitting e most obvious decision to one's head against the wall. come out of this body was the Student cooperation is needed decision to charge independents a to help reduce vandalism at the fee to attend fraternity parties. Center. The pinba:II machines Under consideration at a few have already been removed since houses before the council was -f~ey h_ave geen tampered with so established, this policy was much. Under Mr. Moore's adopted because the fraternities d!rection the security by grant-in- felt that they could no longer a1 des has greatly been improved. afford to pay for all the parties Problems in keeping the Center th~mselves. With costs rising as running, such as finding rooms qmckly as they are, fraternities lo~~e~. have been greatly found themselves in the position mmtmlzed. Still, some problems of either having to charge for do exist. . parties or to stop giving parties The College Center is far from altogether. complete, but the campus will Other activities planned include have to wait until some money is a lect~~e series sponsored by found somewhere. Until th f ra term ties . en, . · . perhaps some students can begin , Mee~m~s of the Preside~ts' , a newsstand, or push for the ( ou~c!l a_re. held ~eekly, wtth opening of an art gallery; all hous~s ro~atmg hostmg. Th~ ne~t suggestions are _welcome. Please n~eetmg IS at Delta Cht th1s bring them to LeRoy Moore who ·' u~sday at 4:30. and the public is can be found in his new offlce in mvtted to attend. Old Gym Hall. telephone and other office equipme11t necessary to d·o the job.\ . ' Once the program ge.fs approval from the Administration and starts operation, it will run.a large scale publicity campaign to make students aware .of its p.resence and encourage students to make use of it. The center will he run on a 24-hour basis using volunteer labor. Cook said that most of the program's activities will be centered on informing students about the new New York State drug law, and helping people Who are on bad trips.\ Cook also said that \One of our advantages is that we me students, and have been through the scene. Kids with proi:Jlems are more likely to want to talk to us about their problems th&n to any of the counseling serVices the College provides.\ Review by CHUCK ROTHMAN Since the Grateful Dead quit Warner Bros. Records\: it was inevitable that Warner Bros. would release a \Best of the Dead\ album. They just did. Entitled Skeletons from tbe Closet, it contains a pretty good se.lection of Dead songs from their first album through Europe '72. Dead freaks have heard it all hefore. If you have any of their albums you don't really need this, one: even if you don't havt: th~ originals get them instead or you may miss all the good music that could not be fit on thjs album. ~+++++++++++++~~· linion Extra · · restrictions_ or ~ge restri~tions. All who come are assu.ied of total confidentiality. There is a slidtng fee scale, so no one is turned away becaus.e of financial difficulties. Anyone who comes to. P.P. must give informed consent if she is to be treated. So, health and medical education is included as part of the CXl:!mination. Also, the Education Division offers a program to the. g.eneral commun~ty at the clinic, or in any commamty selting (schools, club meetings). Ms. Valentine said most S.P.P. relatively widespread. It is a cheap al')d simple procedure, especially for the ma1e. clients are in tr. mid-twentieS' · Birth control pills. are virtually the most effective method, if taken correctly. The Pill is used hy most P.P. clients who request a birth eontrol method {85 percent). Ms. Valentine feels that the ·women's movement received its largest impetus and support with the advent of the Pill. Given an almost foolproof method of controlling childbirth, women were enabl'ed to get out of ,the house and into the job market, to demand equal rights· and consider.&tion. or younger and have no children. The reas@ns. given for see'king help ar-e for some methodofbirth control, for pregnancy tests, and lor general sex information. .Ms. ~alentine said that many clt~nts mdulge in sex yet feel gutlty because of double ~tandards thl'!t stiU persists. They caH feel boxed in - society and family pressure on one.han:d, and peer and boyfriend pressure on the other. Carol Valentine's presentation centered on birth control. She asserted that there is no perfect method of birth control, a method 100 percent safe, 100 percent effective, cheap, easy to use. non-detracting from the sex act, and nan-reversible. The rhythm method is used most extensively by devout Catholics. who, when placed on a ·Scientifically-based program, find it fairly effective. Withdrawal \has a lot of drawbacks,\ quipped Ms. Valentine. Condoms. though a \nuisance are most widely used. Vaginal spermicide and aefOsol foams (best brands are Delfen_ and Emco) although advertised· to be used alone, are more effectively used with diaphragms, thus providing the safest method of birth control. A diaphra,gm must be fit by a doctor. which can he ·a drawback to some females. I. u.n's are hilled as 91 percent effective but !he~ must be put in correctly, and m tune. Sterlization is becoming Hillel Hillel's Purim Dmner will be held on Friday evening, March 8: Featured will be a chicken dinner (including hamentaschen). Kings, 4 ~e~ns, and Persian prime rmmsters are urged to attend, although reservations will be . accepted from Union College stu?ents traveling incognito. RS. V.P. hy Monday, March 4. Passover occurs at the hcgin·ning of Spring term. Community hospitality is available for students for hath Seders. Contact Scott Reiter for information in either of these two areas. ( 15.1 Davidson, 370-6521 ). Weekly events continue Kiddush at 5:45 p.m. at West, followed by Friday night services at 7:00 in Strauss Lounge. Israeli The PHI is composed of~ estrogen and proestrogen; it is ohe of the most widely researched .dttlgs, yet because of its relatively young career, its long term effects are not ·known. There i-s no reason as yet to believe the Piff to cause cancer. However, if there are maHgna.nt cells in the body, t-he Pill may .speed: up the growth of cancct. The PiU is related to hloodclots (varico.se vein-s, rlwombosis) in certain women. Birth control· pills are not recommended by P. P. if there is a known possibility of any kind of danger. What .about the morning-after Pill? Ms. Valentine said that this is reaH¥ a four or five day Pill It is most often used in emergency situations, such as rape. Side effects like nausea can be t,:xpected from ·the massive dosage. Another topic which Ms. Valentine addressed was abortion. Last year, out of 900 positive pregnancy tests, 75 percent were referred fc;>r abortions~ almost 50 pe.rcent were · teenagers. There were 63 abortions through P.P. in January. The simpliest form of abertion, called menstrual extraction, is a procedure that can be performed within ten days · 0f a missed menstrual period to cancel· out any chance of pregnancy. Once pregnancy is established and an abortion is decided up.on it should be done as early as possible· -- before the twelfth week in order to be the least painless, both physically and psychologically-. THE BLACK STUDENTS' ALLIANCE OF UNI()N COLLEGE PRESENtS On March 8 A Performing Arts Festival \The Blacl[ Experitmce II'' Come; check out . happening and dig creativeness that comes Blackness!!!!! this the with. The performance will . ; include African dance,. modern dance, a skit, live music and a Martial Arts · demonstration a1so a poerty presentation done by the members of the B.S.A. I rhe IEEE wiH present a lecture hy Mr. Ted Werntz on the topic <lf \Decision Making: Who Wins and Who Loses,\ on March 4 at g:oo p.m. in SS016. Mr. Werntz, a professional engineer, represents a new breed of scientists who are· becoming incre'asingly concerned· about their inabi1ity to influence the consequences of their technological applications. The .engineer is a member of the Committee for Social Responsibility in Engineering, whose founding statement of ·purpose noted: \Thousands of · -dan~ing at 7:30 p.m. in Old Chapel on Tuesdays. AND t . ' a \gig\ afterward in the gym · . (admission $1.00 onJy for Prof V. E. Pilcher speaking on \Enen~Y and Nuclear Fission.\ He spoke in the Physics and Seminar Room on. Tuesday, Feb. 26. · photo by Greg Cohert engineers feel that their cngineeri ng talents are misused in ·both civilian and military projects, and believe that the constant development of weapons technology spells ultimate disaster for mankind. The Committee for Social Responsibility in Engineering seeks to challenge the present orientation of engineerin·g and to explore ways in which engineering skills can be used to solve the obvious and growing ills of our society.\ , , ~++++++++++~~++++++ .. Lev•·s Dave's· Mens siaop' I 453~teSt. ~dOWiltOMI.Se .. Dt:Ctady): I party) (Refr.eshments available) The perfoi'inance starts .at 8 P·ID· in Meniorial Chapel. \THE BLACK EXPERIENCE ll\ FREE FREE FREE \A QUIET BAR ... A PLACE TO TALK\ THE Red Fox Inn PIZZA FRIDA\'&: SATURDAY 5-12 P.M. BUD BY tHl PlTCHER 123 JAY ST. SCHENECTADY · ···~::::~:::~:~::;;:;~:~;~~;~~=~:~:~=~~=j~:~:::~:l:~~~-:::*~;~~~~!;~~~~~~~~m:1:~l~:z:~~~~=~=~~:~~?.*i~i~*M~m~ww.-*;=. •• • • I I Ji ~ ..... ~~ . ,.} •• • • ' • • t> •• • •,· \-) ' ... i I} \i I • ·J • •' (\

a if at of IS a IS It a d d n d h •• • • • ~ '~ .... ~ .... II .J .• I) • • 'f • '1.! ' .. i I} \i I • ·J i • } -· (I CONCORDIENSIS, Thursdqy; February 28. 1974 Page5 B·L:I'JREB S~arting next week, the second edition of the Concordiensis Survey of Student Life at Union will be distributed to 500· students who were selected from the Student Directory with the aid of a rando.tn number table. Every effort has been ma<l.e to eliminate bias in this sample which includes 120 students who live off campus . The survey bas been revised to facilitate computer analysis of the results. We hope for a high response rate from those who receive questionn_aires. What's Happen;ng Redford Returns * * * * This may be your last chance to be a worl9 'leader. lf you are interested in taking part in Prof. Wa.Jhek's INS simulation the weeke.fid of March 9-10, please see Chuck Rothman at 320 West m call346•921l. * * * * Students interested in nominating students for membership in the Delphics, an honorary service organization, should pick up the necessary nominating form from the Student Activities Office. Nominations must be returned to Mrs. Marra by Thursday, March 7. The Delphic SoCiety consists of Union College students who hav~ contributed valua,ble service to the College community over a period of time. * * * * Mahatma Jagdeo, a realized disciple of Guru Maharaj Ji, will speak ·On the practical experience of happiness on Moaday, March 4, at 7:30p.m., at 393 Washingt.ort Ave., Albany. * * * * All those interested in going to Amherst by bus for Union's final basketball game of the year, on Tuesday March 5, please sign up at the Student Activities Office. The bus will cost about $3.00 per perso·n .. * * * * A set of keys on a Mickey Mouse key chain was found Friday at Psi U. All inquiries for the Mickey Mouse key chain are urged to contact Bucky Ritlon-MiUer. . * * '* * Applications for all forms o.f financial· aid are now available at the Office of Student Aid in Old Gym Hall. Students des.iring renewal of aid as well as those seeking :an original grant of assistance must submit applications. In addition te scholarships, applications must be filed for Grants-in-Aid, Board Jobs, Concessions, and Loans. Applications must be submitted no later than May 1. * * * * Seniors: Time to order graduation announcements. See Mrs. Marra in the Student Activities Office. * * * * Applications for positions on the Orientation Committee must be filled out and returned by Monday, Mal'ch 4. Interviews will be scheduled for the first week in March. Assistant Chairmanships as well as other committee p.ositions are available. * * * * Chairmen of ALL STUDENT ACTIVITIES - pick up membership forms in the Student Activities Office. Complete and return by March 8. Activity membership is needed for your permanent record in the Dean of Students Office. .. The Gafloping Chemist by PETE SOBOL An integral part of most science courses ·is exposing the student to the actual sound, smell and feel of the subject. The setting for this manual and ends up with something which is not what he was supposed to end up with. The reason turns out to be bec~use the exposure is the lab. lab. - air track was not levelled in the Physics Lab, or the chlorosulfonic acid was \no good\. in the La6s can be very trying .. One follows the directions in the lab SPRING 'fERM PRE·REGISTRA TfON NOTICE Pre-registration materials for spring term will be available in the Office of the Registrar, Room 2, Administration Building. beginning Monday. March 11th. Students are urged to promptly secure their copy of · these materials. Students Who do not plan to r~turn to · Union for the spring term. except for graduating seniors. should also report and give notice oftheir plans. Students should confer with Faculty Advisers during the five days March I 1-15. Some departments may announce special arrangements for advising, Please be alert for such announcements. Co1,1rse requests are due at the Office of the Registrar not lateF than March 18th. A ten dollar ($10.00) late fee· will be assessed thereafter. ~~ Organic lah. · It is the redundancy of knowing the results that are supposed to be obtained before one obtains them that annoys people about labs. Labs are merely cookbookery. I he student who ex.pects labs to he a provrng ground for what he bas learned is in for a 'disappointment, because for the most part, lab consists of knowing what was supposed to happen when it did not work, In this light labs sound useless, but alas they do have a purpose, and that purpose is to acditnate the student to the sound, smell, and feel of the subject. It is certainly better to see a beaker early in life than to put it off until one has gotten a job at GE and is left alone in an odiferous room filled with sinister appliances. tevrs ··Dave's Mens Shop· 453 State St. '(dawn&owa SdJenectady) Thursday, Feb. 28 Steering Committee meeting with Saga, Strauss Lounge, 7:30 p.m .. Friday, March I Panel: \Women's Studies\ - Dean Virginia Lester of Empire State College, Sherry Penriey of N.Y.· Dept. of Ed., and representatives from SUNY. Faculty Bridge, Hale House Upper Lounge, 8 p.m . Film Series, Bergman's, The Face, SSQ16, 8 p.m. Saturday, March 2 Workshop: \Se'If Defense,\ by Toad Cavalier, Arts 202, 2 p.m. Film Haps: The Candidate,\ $1.00, SS016; 7, 9, II p.m. Dance, Sponsored by Women's Caucus and Black Student Alliance, Alumni Gym, 8:30 p.m. Tuesday, March 5 Combined Steering-$ocial Committee Meeting, all students invited to discuss .effectiveness of the Social Committee, Hale House Lounge, 7:30 p.m. John Gatch, U.S. State Dept. speaks en \Terrorism and Hijacking -- An International Prohlem,'' I RC-sponsored, SSO 16, 7:30 p.m. Prof. Robert Windsor speaks on ''The Search for Solar ~eutrinos: or What SNU?\ Physics Seminar Room. Refreshments at 4 p.m., lecture at 4:30 in Room N303. Basketball, Union at Amherst, sign up for· a bus at' Student Library Gift by NINA L. HALPERN Union, along with most other America colleges and universities, has experienced a dramatic increase in demand for academic programs in Judaica. The one thousand dollar grant, from Union alumnus, Dr. Donald ~athan to the Schaffer Library for Judaic books, has therefore come at a most opportune time. ~athan's gift will vastly expand the library's Judaica collection. The new acquisitiOn will emphasize' Jewish history, sociology, philosophy, and literature. Pr-ofessor Berk of the Histroy ·.Department, in conjunction with interested students, will choose the specific nooks. The seleetions will be planned to respond to the needs of existing courses. Interest in expansion of the Judaica collection· has been an integral part of the students' struggle to achieve recogniti~n for Judaic Studies as an important academic program. Since the 1970-71 academic year. the Hehrew language program, a course enritled Varieties in Jewish Belief, a ·Jewish history course, and Winter Term in Israel have heen established. ; JAKE LIPSTEIN'S ·UQUORS Tel. 374-t88ft Mon.-Sat. 9 a.m.-9 p.m. 464 State St. Downtown Schenectady ~ ..... ~_..~· ... ~~·~ ... ~ ..... ~- ..... ~. :!!:: ... ~..&.!!::!!.a.~-~~...~ .. ~ ..... ~ .... ~~·!!: ... ~ .... ~ .... ~· ~ ..... ~!!=-!il t • I FERRO'S PHARMACY -sTUDENT DISCOUNl\ .. S1S Nott St. 371-1511 .~ ~ ; · MOTHER FERRO'S .~ ·~ . ' ~ \Featuring' Italian-American Cusine,, .. ~· r. ~· ~ ~ lUS'BARRETT ST. ._ ~ SCHENECTADY 016-9554 ~ 4 ~ Activities, Old Gym Hall. Wednesday, March 6 Parents' Weekend Meeting, 4:30 p.m., Strauss ·Lounge. Students and g~oup .representatives are invited. Netherlands Wind Ensemble,. Memorial Chapel, 8:30 p.m. Loeal Libe SCHENECTADY COUNTY PUBLIC LIBRARY March I ·- Themes in Modern Drama course begins at 10 a.m. in the Meeting Room of the Central Library, Liberty and Clinton Streets. Sponsored by the Friends of the Library, the six-session course will be conducted by Mrs. Seldon Crary and is open to the public without charge. March 4 - Books Sandwkhed- fn, 'sponsored by the Friends of the Library, at noon in the Meeting Room of the Central Library. Lunches may be brought and beverages purchased. Dr. Clifford Brown of SUNY will review \The Living Presidency\ by Emmet John Hughes. March 6 -- Wednesday Noon. ·Films in the Meeting Room of the Central Library. Viewers may bring lunches and purchase hot heverages. Program: Blaze Glory, Sardinia, and Sk~' Over Holland. March 7 Travel Film Program, the first in a series of six programs, at 7·:30 p.m. in the Meeting Room of the Central Library. Program: American Spectacle and Antarctica, Because it's There. To prepare for the title role in his film, The Candidate, Film Haps' movie this week, Robert Redford spent a great deal of time researching old magazines and film clips in order to recreate how a rea.l-l·ife U.S. senatorial candidate looks and dresses. Director Michael Ritchie and a team of professional political party men sought to achieve visual credibility to match the authenticity of the original script by Jeremy Lamer, who was a sp eec hwri ter for Eugene McCarthy during the 1968 presidential campaign. Ordinarily, a star is insulated from the public by studio guards and his personal entourage, but Redford insisted on being i.nvolved in everything during location shooting. \It made the picture more realistic this way,\ Redford' said. \We weQt to real political rallies, we shot all three rings of the politica.J circus, and I hope we can show our audiences what a senatorial race really looks and sounds like from the inside.\ The Candidate is the story of an idealistic lawyer who is seduced into a big-time political race, and· who gradually finds himself torn between his ambition and his conscience. A Redford- Ritchie production for Warner Hros., i 1 was directed by Michael Ritchie and produced by Walter Coblenz. Starring with Redford are Peter Boyle, as his campaign manager, and Melvyn Douglas, as his father. Co-starring are Don Porter, Allen Garfield and Karen Carlson. The Candidate will be shown hy Film Haps, Sat. & Sun., March 2 and 3 at 7, 9, 11:0.0 p.m. Admission is $1.00. NOone else ' .. ·• cangtveus what you can. (Join Us. Please~ Nobody else in the world can give us what you can. A pint of your bl.ood. And your gift has never been more im- portant. Because blood from hEalthy donors, who freely donate their blood,is 10 times less likely to cause infectious hepa- titis in the recipient than is blood from many commer- cial sources. Think about that. The need is urgent, and continuous. Help us. Join us. Today. The America~\ Red Cross. The Good Neighbor.

