Poster Desig~ Contest for HAIR - Prizes for Winners - Details in the Green Room, Nott MemQri;d Vol. },OJ, No~ 19 0 ·~~Mance, I dearly miss . The days when I enjoy'd y~ur bliss. \Brevity is the soul of wit.\ W. Shakespeare Enjoy,it now I fear I can't; hi knowing lam ignorant. ~hursday, Mayl, 1974 35 cents The Clambake Cometh by FRANCO The U.S. Department of Health, Education and Welfare has estimated that one out of 20 children in the total elementary school education system has an ·often-correCtable .problem of minimal brain damage. This prohJ.em is not always recognized as such, and as a result there exist very few schools in our country dealing with the correction of minimal brain damage. programs of this school, which has trained child~en from the U.S., Canada, a!ld other nations. The Gamma Zeta Chapter of Union College, in conjunction with the ~international Service Project, has held an annual Clambake for the past 5 years. This event has turned into one of the biggest social happenings in the spring. Last year well over 1000 people crowded the Field House, and al>out 400 jammed for the dance ins.ide the Sigma Chi House. All the proceeds that have been raised in this event have been donated to the Wallace · Children's Fund, which has Tom Paxton will he in concert on May 3rd in Memorial Chapel at 8£JO P.M. Paxton's most recent release is \New Songs for Old Friends,\ which reflects his unique style offolk music complemented by a fine sense of controlled drama, tempered with a sardonic twist. One of these few centers is the Wallace Village for Children in Broomfield, Colorado, near Denver. The Sigma Chi Fraternity has had for several years, as an International Service Project, the task of creating a fund which at some future date will be directed to a tangible addition to the facilities and · grown to nearly $100,000. The Gamma Zeta Chapter has contributed close to $3,000 with last year's event netting over $1,000. This year's clambake, the sixth. will be held at the Girling Center. For those un~ble to provide their own transportation, there will be a continuous bus service from the Fieldhouse starting at about 2:30 .. At the Girling Center there will be hotdogs, Jlotato salad, chips, Tickets are $2.50 with an l. D. Student. Advisors Next September clams and n~tural flowing beer. The Brothers of Sigma Chi ask that the veople attending the by LAURA SHORE Starting in September student advisors will help faculty members in advising freshmen. An informal program of this nature has been tried in the ~Biology Department, and found to be very successful. Entering freshmen will be assigned both a faculty and .student advisor. It is intended that the student advisor will play a significant role in the process of advising freshmen. A student will have, at most, five freshmen to advise (a faculty advisor usually has thirty to forty advisees). This program will increase the amount of help to freshmen while decreasing the pre-registration strain on faculty members. A<_lvisors' Job Although· functions of student advisors are expected to differ between major departments, it is projected that the student will meet with his advisees four or five · times during the year. He will also be available for help on a daily basis. Student advisors may help freshmen with the selection of courses, advise them on departmental and College req!lirements. comp. ed. require.ments, and change of course procedures, and on any other miscellaneous academic requirements or procedures. Training Program Once the group of student advisors is selected, departmental instruction will be given them during the latter part of this term. Student advisors are then expected to be present during Freshmen Orientation for briefing and the beginning of the advising responsibilities. They will meet throughout the coming year, on the departmental and College level, for training sessions. In order to qualify as a student advisor, one must either be a junior or a senior during the coming year. Advisors are also You Kant Do Tho~ by VI In an unprecedented action, the Union College Dog Court fined :'-Jina Halpern for violating the dog laws on Monday, April 30. Miss Halpern's dog was attached to a 500 foot rope, tied to a tree in front of Fox Dormitory. The dog, still on the rope, was found in the Library Court. Miss Halpern reportedly. bought the rope in bulk quantity so that her dog, lmmanual K~tnt, affectionately known to all as plain \Kant could have freedom of movement. No. Criminal Record Kant had no previous criminal record, although complaints directed fl,gainst the owner were made by Mr. James Alberg. Alberg's complaints centered around Kant's presence in the Rathskellar. which would have constituted a violation of the Health Code. At the Dog Court Trial, one observer Was quoted as saying, \Some people should be tied to leashes instead of dogs.\ The Dog Court objected to the length of the rooe. but the laws fail to specify any length. Kant was acquitted on the rope length charge, but his owner was fined for failing to have the animal registered. . After the trial, Miss Halpern said, \Some people think Jim Alberg should be brought to the dog court.'' Alberg was unavailable for comment, as he was allegedly chasing dogs in the Rathskellar. Ambiguity Because of the ambiguity of the many dog .laws, the Dog Court encouraged all people receiving fines to appeal their decision to the College Senate. Director of Security John Kleinkauff \wants no part in the dog mess,\ and has urged revision of existing laws. The Dog Court session of Monday night terminated the business for the season, and in doing so announced that, .. Once· again; it is safe to walk across · campus barefoot.\ Kant is . now resting in. Stanford, Conn.. where he has plenty· of room to roam, and there . is no legisla.tio!l on leash length. expected to be attending classes on this campus throughout the year. Applications are available now in Room 111 of Social Sciences. and must be returned by May 10, 1974 •. Final selections will be made by an ad hoc committee and departmental chairmen. Any questions should Politi.cal Politics, International and National, is the subject for the next four days as the Political Forum corttinues its series of fine political speakers. Sandwiching the weekend will be two Political Forum presentations, each focusing on a different perspective of politics. On Friday, May 3, Bernard Rivers will be on the Union College campus and will deliver a lecture entitled, \Revolutionary Politics and Colonialism.\ This talk will deal primarily with Portugal and its relations with its colony Angola. Slides will supplemellt the lecture. Mr. Rivers, a graduate of Cambridge University~ has traveled widely and has spent much time in Africa. !)uring the summer of 1973, Mr. Rivers spent 11 weeks within Angola studying one of the liberation movements operating within that coUntry. Mr. Rivers has published articles in \Peace News,\ and will also publish articles soon in \Africa Today,\ and ••Africa Magazine.\ The lecture is planned for 4:30 p.m. and will ta.ke place in Social Science 016. · The following Monday, May 6, Paul Lutzver, Director of ............ , SPECIAL NOTICE All Seniors who have borrowed under the New York State Higher fducati on Assistance Corporation Loan Program are advised to stop in at the Student Aid Office hy May 14 to receive the latest material and information regarding this be directed to a member of the ad hoc committee: Byron Nichols Liz Pava 6226 event use tile Girling Center's 346-9227 facilities with ap·propriate 6126 responsibility. AI Reisch Roy Rubenfeld· Fred Simon H.E. Wylen 393..0177-- The clarnbake will last from 393-0177 3:00 p.m. until 6:00 p.m. There 6229 will be a three hour break and at 9:00 ·p.m., at the Sigma Chi Forum Research for the Democratic National Committee is scheduled to address the Union College students and faculty. His talk will be a \Look Ahead at the 1974 Elections,\ and will cover trends and strategy for the upcoming congressional and state elections. The lecture begins at 8:00 p.m. in Social Science I 15. · . House, the Edward Fox Blues Band will l:>e featured. The band will play until 2:()0 a.m. and beer will be available at the bar. Your clambake ticket will get you in free while all othevs will be asked to donate one dollar. The tickets for the Sixth Annual Sig:ma Chi Clambake are $3.50 in ad vance and $4.00 at the door. The tickets are being sold right now tiJroughout the campus, but if you can't get hold of one. contact Rich Moses of Sigma Chi at this number: 346-9582. program It will be to your+ advantage to follow through on t . this request. . ! ~········· .. ~- Candidate for tree warden attempts to win over a potential voter. For candidates• statements turn to Page 4. photo by Vi -- .,._ - ·-~ \

Pagel CONCORDIENSJS, Thursday. May 2 •. 1974 ~a~~ . ~~\~· Oinnrnr~;bttm~iu . - ~ - .... -. . . ~ -~~}.9. .· > ~ ·£aitc;;rs~in-Ch.ief.:.:.~:.:.:.~ ......... Judv Dein. Bill Talis News 'Editor ................................ : ..... Geoff Taylor Culture Editor ...................................... Pete Sobol ~ports. Edi~or .' ...... :.' ... :.~ .............. ~ ........ Bart Mer~er Photo Editors .............................. Leslie Steineker. · ·. · · Cliff Lan,:!Weiter Copy Editor ............................... ~ ....... Phil AJcabes Foreil!n Corespondent ................ Rob Mondschein Blitherinf! Editor ........................... Chris O'Connor Business Editor ................................. Alan Gnessin Nati.onal Advertising .......................... Steve 1\elley Subscriptions Editor- .............................. Lisa Tietz Layout .................................. ;: .......... Linda ·Mackey Coneordielisfs is published every Thursday by the student body or'Union Collej!e. Old Gym Hall. Schenectady. N.Y.; Publications Qftice. The Jewish World Pub.lications. 771 State St., Scheneciady. N.Y. 12.307. (346·2356). Entered in the Schenectadv P.ost Office as Second ~lass Matter. Subscription Rate 3S cents ,per copy. $8;()() a year d~liver.ed anywhere in .the United $tates. Deadline-for copy is Tu\!S(Iay •. S:OO P.M. The Other A wards THEY ALSO SERVE WHO ONLY STAND AND LIVE. by PETE SOBOL Ages ago it was probably decided, by a person who believed that he had speared more fjsh than the rest of his tribe that a person's dedication, expertise, and therefore success, should be made known to the masses. Thus, was the Award born. The Award: an embodiment of patience, persistence, perspicacity, proficiency and public plaudits; it is the very encapsulation of victory. This last Saturday saw the presentation of many an award to many a deserving combatant. But, so that the admiring onlooker not forget that many achievements have gone~ and (how unjustly!) continue to go. unnoticed, we present the following Jist of Awards which we hope to see presented at next year's ceremony. For the highest cumulative score on the Rathskeller pinball machines, and for outstanding integrity and sportmanship 1 The \Tommy\ Award minutes by an upperclassman to North and Richm0nd, The \Future Kissinger\ Certificate For the greatest amount of windows broken by snowballs not more than 6 centimeters diameter · and from a distance of not Jess than 15 paces, \The \Vida Blue\ Scholarship For spending the least amount of weekends on campus, The Presidential Suitcase For the most inventive original work with old Coilcord:y, The Brown-Newton-Miller Trophy For extracting the greatest amount of grade changes from professors without bribery or violence, The \World's Smallest Record Playe~:\ A ward For all personnel who return the following academic year, A Commemorative edition of The Power of Positive Thinking You Said Itt ' - ·- ,· ' ' Home Sweet Home Editors, Concordiensis: As I wade through my last semester at Union. I do so very disappointed in the \communitv\ at the C'olle)!e. Union College. as a pre-freshman suggested to me. hv its geographic and physical atmosphere. one that .held the novel tv of the collective spirit. Verv few Americans .. in my estimation. have everv really known what the concept of home reallv entails. l believe that in mv naivhv I mistook \home\ fo.r what can hut he described as its perfect stage setting. One that held hoth tradition as well as ideal. was what Union was supposed to he. a.nd it is this concept or ideal that I will deal with . in this article. My experiences at Union have brought me to the realization that Union holds the settinp: of that \classic\ of American ideals. \The home of the hrave.\ This is true because the individuals that I have met at Onion are all martvts, in their own tight. This truth therefore exempt~ them from taking part in normal human relationships. The feeling that \it is hetter to compete for grades than concur humanlY\ prevails as a principle understanding in this \home of hrave mart~rs.\ Furthermore since hraverv must he blessed and followed. the home reeentlv extended itself to women. ie (the ones who stand hehi.nd the men) and minorities. ie (the ones who decorate the home).. J.t is not mv aim to dominate this article with sarcasm. so I shall now offer this knowledge. Unless we. as students of Union remove ourselves from competitive pedestals and begin to merge as different individuals toward~ a functional colle)!e communitv. Union will meet the fate that faces most private institutions and cease to exist. Also until we come to grips with the fact that a womans' place is to equallv help in establishing and maintaining our home. and that most hlacks. Spanish. and Japanese make lousv wallpaper. I J nion will face extinction. These are hut a few of mv ideas that w1!l he further expressed on Mav 23tfi: Saturday during an open rap l>ession. pic- nic and partv at Girlin)! C'enter. Mv aim was not to offend those students that are concerned with the lack of c0mmtmi·ty at l r nion. lt is to f!'llow those· interested an a ventle of manifestation. Saturdav at the Girlin)! Center will be the place where all interested can \put up\ so to speak. or do as the hrave continue to do and shut up. Sincerely. Calvin Anderson Co-ordinator 370·6606 Weekend Su.ccee.ds Editors, Concordiensis, I would Jike to take this opportunity to express tny appreciation to the Delphic Society, Dean of Students Office, Coffeeho,use and Social Committee Representatives, the Art Department, the Maintenance Dept., and many many other indiviel.uals who helped make Parents Weekend a success, Countless hours of planning went into the weekend and many individuals volunteered their time during the weekend to execute a very successful program. John Dolan '75 Davidson JIU Schneier '76. Fox Steve Kelly '76 Chi Psi Ho~ie Mastroiani '75 Davidson B~rbara Carabel '75 Smith House Tom Behrendt '75 FC)x Paul Ferguson '75 De'lta Phi Joel Fisher '76 Chi Psi * * * * Editors, Concordiensis: I am voting for Jerry Garcia for @ ne verv sound reason. Could voulisten t~ the other candidates For fi,ve hours without gettinp: hored? I.ol!ic itnpells me to vote fo.r Garc.ia. Gratefully, Marshall Schiff Pray Day Nay Editors., Concordiensis: In skimmin_g down Union's Wee·k lam often stined to yawn. release.a few obnoxious chuckles. and emit a few interested mmmers. This week marks the first time I fell stirred to vomit. Some'Where hetween a lacrosse game .and a phvsics seminar there ~ppea red the ominous title \National Dav of Fasting and Praver.\ Upon readin)! further. I found that thil'l Tuesdav (a day which will have passed hv the next isstte of Concordy( would he a dav set aside for the rraver that America should cure its ills. My point is this - \Fasting and Prav~r for the healin)! of our Nation\ is fine. hut it can not replace \Working to heal our Nation.\ P.raver. fasti.nl!. and a healthv concern for America are all excellent. hut the attitude of \Pra v for A me rica. and its problerus will go away\ is not a solution: indeed it exemplifies the problem. As experienced by anyone who attended parents weekend, or by anyone who attended the progntm, a number of activities were planned for the weekend. Although attendance was the largest in history, only 211 parents registered. The purpose of the registration fee is to help defray the cost of a weekend which included three concerts (one courtesy of Jaffee lecture series), three productions of one play, which included two· wine and cheese receptions, a reception in Jackson's Garden, stationary and mailing expenses for two different mailings to parents concerning the weekend, and other administrative expenses not normally incurre,P. This year these \out of pocket\ expenses totalled in excess of $1300, and the registration collection of $211 helped to defray these costs. Whv is there no dav set aside for action? How come there is no nationwide or campuswide event for formin.!! le~?islation. deciding what we feel the countrv needs. or for getting some work done? If a· car · il'! In disrepair. one doesn't go to a Church and pray for it. tie picks up a wrench and goes 0111 to fix it. What would ~ake anvhodv think that a nation is a nv different? Dave Mendelsohn '77 For the most efficient condensation of a twenty page paper into a five page paper, without the help of a half-line typewriter, The GE \Trash- Masher\ Award Cop Stoned Again, J appreciate this opportunity to say thank you to everyone who contributed to the success of an outstanding weekend! Mess with Bills Editors~ Concordiensis: For having inadvertantly destroyed the greatest amount of glassware, crockery, and temper~. The \Golden Broom\ Award. For having streaked the longest distance in the coldest weather, Concordiensis will present a ''Blue Swede\ Album. For the most visits to Lenox road by non-res~dents, The \Eastward H 0! Pioneer\ Award. For having been stopped the greatest number of times by police between Schenectady and Saratoga, The \Friends of the North Country's Finest\ A ward For leaving first at a Pete Sobol coffeehouse,_ The Concordy \Good Taste\ Award. For throwing the most food in the Saga cafeteria, The \Big John Memorial Mop\ For outstanding creathrity in painting the Idol, The IFC \Silver Brushes\ Award f-or consuming the greatest amount of beer in one 24 hour period, \The Trustee's Cup\ (Suitable for bedside use) For the greatest number of visits lasting more than five While Driving Roger Penland Lamont House Jerry's Boys Editor, Concordiensis: A vote for Jerry Garcia is not irrational or absurd. For those of you may not already know, Garcia is the heart of The Grateful Dead. When Garcia is elected he will grace our campus with a concert during his Eastern swing next fall. _Garcia's candidacy does not symbolize protest against student government. Instead, Garcia symbolizes a protest against the students who have -masqueraded in the past few years as representatives of the student body. As opposed to havin_goneclown reign because he could muster up support from one group on campus and capitalize on ·the unpopularity of his opponent, voting for Jerry Garcia would place a group of ten people at the head of student ~m·ernment. This ruling body would have to improve on the inefficient and incompetent fools who have had their heads up their asses in past ,years. Let's get away from .the typical poly-sci putzes who have sent our campus down the drain in the past. Vote for Garcia. His group cdnsists of these people: Bill Carmody '75 Fox Bobby Shugoll '75 Fox Anvnne aware of exorbitant college costs becomes quicklv ncqu~inted with the potential contrihutions of . grant-in-aid iohs. <;cholarships. and hoard iohs. Have vour hills ever comren snted for v:our deserved reduction? Mv hrother is a fifth-vear qlldent at Union. For convenience. a check was sent in mv name for a sum including ravment for both mv hrother and mvsel f. I recci vcd a receipt for full paYment but mv brother received no credit. When the error v.as explained to the Colle.ge. mv brother was prompth:sent a receipt. Four students with scholars hips were hilled for full tuition on more than one occasion. Again the negotiations were rectified without question. One Resident Advisor's policy _grants a friend one-half of her room's rent. You guessed it. The hill's oversight was corrected. Whv has the mistake occurred <;o frequentlv? Mav we attrihute thi-; pn1hlem cntireh to ne_gli)!cncc? I llri!C vou to study nil bills issued from Union C'olk!!e hcfme writinl! a check. . Dou!!las Wingerath '76 Gal'a,g'e Sale - May ll starting at 9 a.m., 1401 Belmont Ave. Benefit for Union College Child Care Co- op. Articles and donations gladly accepted, call 377-2114 or 374-fl722. Jl ,. l ,pat be! Qu Ap cor •in · Se fv1e mit last Mt Ser .I esp ex a intc gro thi~ thi~ ~mf aftt pia ne\ Bee 1 intt con bei1 en! apr ten1 au, UU( per plei ren WOI the ·r im und 1:a tl exo out As the Bee 130 pen dec 29 M< 1110 ro~ pre ren Ca EH lee we: ler r ah M< \Ve. the

CONCORDJENSJS, Thursday, May 2, 1974 Page3 Conc-ert Notes by PHIL KASS p'lay the work in· its entirety at Skidmore the f<'>lloWing night. Clark Speaks 0.~ Dissent The past two weeks have been ,particularly active ones for music, lleginning with the Cleveland Quartet concert on Thursday, April 18th; · in a program consisting of Beethoven's Quartet •in G, op. 18, no. 2; Charles lves' Second Quartet; and rvtendelssohn's Quartet in E minor, op. 44, no. 2. This was the last concert in the SchenectadY Museum-Union College Concert Series for this year. The Beethoven was performed cspeciaHy well, featutin~ the clean exact phrasing and i\mpeccable i11tonation whiCh have made this group one of the greats; I found this to he the best performance of this work that :I have heard. As ~me of the quartet members sa-id afterwar<;ls, a full season •Of playing the same string quartets never dims the love for Beethoven's. The lves work was prefaced by introductory remarks about the composer's sense of humor befme being performed,- which greatly en ha need the audience's appreciation. Modern music often tends to sound labored and t-he audiences always seem uncomfortable during the performances, and so it was a real pleasure to hear a musical . rendition of an otherwise thorny work with a good response from the audience. The Mendelssohn quartet is all im pass i o ne d w o r k , but underneath the surface, it is m ther uninspired. It got all ex.cellent reading. I would single out the scherzo for added praise. As an encore, the group played the Danza Alia Tedesca from Reerhoven's Quartet in B flat, op. 130. It was a tantalizing performance, since thev were ·to Open Rehearsal The following mor.ning, the violinists gave a workshop t0 the Union College Quartet and clemonstrated string writing to composition students. Afterwards, composer Jacob Druckman spoke on his music and his Hew work \Lamia written for the Albany Symphony. The piece was performed by soprano Jan di Gaetani with the orchestra that night in an open. rehearsal in Memorial Chapel The work itself was very good, and the admirable performance it received went o:ver well in the Chapel. Also performed were Cesar Franck's Symphony in D minor and Mozart's Jupiter Symp'-ony. The Franck received a strong reading and showed off the ability of this excellent orchestra. The Mozart was also very good, although the strings strongly overbalanced the winds. This often happens in the performance of late 18th century music, for Mozart and his contemporaries had smaller string sections in mind when c<>mposing. One suspects that they Would favor doubling the winds to restore the balance: on tbe whole, though, an excellent reading. Youth Otches(ra The Northeastern New York Youth Orchestra performed on April 23rd in Memorial Chapel. This was their second program under new conductor Emory Waters, and one can tell that they are becoming used to one another now. This was their finest concert so far this year. They began with the \Dream Pantomi!J::le\ from Continued on Pa~:e 9 by FRED WEINSTEIN Speaking before a large crowd in the Memorial Chape.l, Ramsey Clark, a candidate for the U.S. Senate from New York State, asserted his belief that dissent is . an integral part of democracy, Clark related that the intangibility of tntth makes dissent a necessity. The former Attorney-'General stated that no man should be precluded from speaking- his own opinion or acting on it peacefully for the truth may be suppressed in instances where men .are obstructed from presenting their opinions. Such suppression of the truth is contrary to the ideals of democracy. However, Clark did not believe _ that dissenters themselves always held the truth. He related, \Ty Cobb had problems just batting AOO\ and dissenters as well will not be right aU the time but \this should not stop them from trying.\ In order to insure the adequate representation of all points of view, in the event he is elected, Clark is accepting contributions 6f only 100 dollars or less. By doing this, he intends to avoid any obligations of commitments to the elites that have too often held disproportionate .influence over elected officials. At the same time, Clark has elected to secure his name on the ballot for the pPimary through petition rather than seek the endorsement of party leaders at the state convention. At a meeting earlier in the day with prominent local Democratic leaders the Mounties Choose Leaders by BILL VALL\EE JR. In a simple executive board dection held on Monday, April 29, the Union College Mountebanks created a new, 1nore vital organ of control. Three posttwns temai.ned stable: the president of the Mountebanks remained for the second year, Cathy lanelli; the vice-president, Ellen Rossmussmen; and the technical director, Mark Koblenz:, were all re-elected for second terms. Newly elected to positions already existing on the Mountebank executive board 1vere: for secretary, TimDoyle; for the two positions of member-at- large attached to the exec board, Stan Kaminsky, and Bernard Carey; for assistant technical director (given usually to an underclassman, novice), Dave Mulligan. Finally, to fill the newly created position of Public Relations Director, was Karen Bernhart. This position was created in an effort to involve to a greater degree, both the campus community and the scltools and people of the Schenectady area. The P.R. Director position will be handled as an independent study in drama; traveling to New York and other large towns to study and meet· With representatiyes of advertising and .theatre. The primary campus concern of the P.R. Director 4 will be to coordinate the advertising and promotion of Mountebank affairs, through a greater number of media outlets, to a greater extent than previously' has been possible. In all, next year's executive hoard of the Mountebanks seems well-balanced, with a stable top combined with a fresh, young novice staff. The addition of a Public - Relations organization should inject a larger performing base and, hopefully, entice a greater part of the campus and area communities into more direct participation in all aspects of Mountebank Mountebanks Officers: Bottom Row: Mark Kohlenz. Tech. Director; Sam King, r~tiring Tech Director; .Cathv lane!Ji, President. Middle Row: (The) Barry Smith; Tim Do.vle. Secretarv; Ellen Ras~ussen, Vice President; David Mulligan, Assist. Tech Director; Stan Kaminsim Member at Larf{e. Top Ro1v.: Bernard Carey, Member at Large; Charlie . Steckler, Public Relations Director. practicality of his campaign plans was questioned. Specifically, it was asked of Clark how he in-tended to communicate his message to the people of this state with limited funds. Clark replied that \Geo(gette (Mrs. Clark) and I p Jan to do a lot of walking. back and forth across the state.\ Someone then reminded Clark that the great majority of voters in New York State reside in cities. Clark responded that a campaign ~hould be utilized to \educate people\ and at the same time he believed it necessary to indicate his desire to represent all the people of this state. After Clark's talk in the Chapel a reception was held in the Social Science Faculty Lounge. After a half hour, Clark left the reception and made an unplanned appearance at the Fox House Dormitory Party. His visit to the campus was sponsored by the Political Forum as part of their continuing series on political dissent. Qp_inion: Ramsey Clark. former U.S. Attorney General, ·and presentfv a candidate for the Democratic nomination ·for U.S. Senator from. New York. · photo by Vi Odds Favor Malcolm by JACK PITNEY If Nelson Rockefeller is a political superman, Malcolm Wilson seems more the Jimmy Olsen type. He is, with his hangdog looks, colorless personality, and didactic speaking style,. the archetypal second banana. Add this image to the damage Watergate has done to Republican chances and the Governor looks like a sure loser in this year's election. Fighting the Odds Yet in the words of the psalmist, \it ain't necessarily so.\ In the first place, Wilson has an enormous power base. In 15 years as Lieutenant G0vernor, he cultivated support by Republican leaders down to the village level. Through innumerable speaking engagements and personal favors, he has accumulated a hefty pile of political lOU's which will be paid through redoubled local efforts in the gubernatorial campaign. Hot Ticket The Governor also has the advantage of a strong ticket. Senator Javits and Attorney General Lefkowitz might just pull enough votes to the Republican line to push'· :Wilson over the top. The coaJtails effect would be even stronger if the Republicans cross-endorse Democratic Comptroller' Arthur Levitt, th.us neutra li7ing any strength he might add to the Democratic ticket. Democrats Weak Perhaps Wilson's greatest advantage is the weakness of the o pp o sit ion; none of the Democratic hopefuls has created much of a stir. Sam Stratton would be unbeatable north of Westchester, but a Democrat has to sweep New 'I ork City to win. h is difficult to imagine that Harlem or South Bronx would go for this straight-laced upstater. Ogden Reid has been a Democrat only for a short time and most party leaders want him to spend some time in the ranks before joi-ning the brass. According to Newsweek, Reid will ditch his floundering campaign to seek re-election to Congress. Hugh Carey is a formidable campaigner, as the voting .in his Brooklyn Congressional district attests. Yet with neither personal fortune nor wealthy friends to support his effort, he will have great trouble getting his message across. Samuels, A Good Bet? Which brings us to Howard Samuels. The former coach of the \New York Bets\ has the money and the fame to win the nomination. The general election is a different story, however, for the voters are looking for new ideas and new faces. After his several unsuccessful tries at statewide office, Samuels' face is all too familiar and it has the word LOSER written all over it. So Wilson might just make it ... Though Watergate will be hung round his neck, he can win by standing by and letting the Democrats blow it. After all, it is better to be stuck with an albatross than a bunch of lemmings. Freak Fliks This weekend, the Film Committee proudly presents the two most famous horror films of all time, \Frankenstein\ and \Dracula.\ These classics have terrified millions all over the world, for over 40 years. \Frankenstein starring the incomparable Boris Karloff, is the ~tory of a crazed scientist's l'reation of a monster in the image of man. The monster is both· horrifying and pathetic, but in every sense, human. He'll make you laugh, he'll make you cry, he'll make you die ....... . Bela Lugosi as \Dracula portrays the sleek, sensual, and unsatiated Transylvanian Count who journeys to the foggy streets of London, in search of new hlood. He will horrify you, he will hypnoti1e you, he will con~uer you. so guard your neck!! So friends, after the bake, come and wash down those clams with hlood. But keep ii sense of humor or you may die laughing .... This double-header of horror v.ill be shown on Saturday and Sunday nights at 7:00, 9:40, and 12:20. If you plan to see both films (and by all means, you should), you must see Frankenstein first, as SSO 16 will he completely cleared of bodies after Dracula, for the next batclt of victims.

• ' ' . Page4 Candidates }or Board of Trustees The purpose of the· position- of • Representative to the Board of Trustees is to represent the~ interests of the student body in the decision and policy making processes performed by the Board of Trustees. I feel that I can represent a far- ranging number of the students here at Union. Next year, I will be an RA, which will enable me to speak for the wide variety of people who live in dorms. I also have numerous fraternity affiliations and I can also speak as both a varsity athlete and as an intramural participant. This past year, i have been a member of the Athletic Committee which has been responsible for a number of policy changes concernmg intramurals, women's athletics, and intercollegiate sports and for initiating the plans for building the new gym complex. As a member of this committee, my function has been to represent the · interests of the student body. Being on this committee has involved working with both faculty members and administrators and in the case of the building program, the Trustees, indirectly. I feel that there is a necessity for peiodical meetings for the students with the Trustee Representatives for the purpose of communicating student opinion concerning the issues before the Board as well as to inform the students about the actions taken by the Board. The importance of student representation cannot be stressed enough since the Board of Trustees will direct the future of Union College. Thank you. Jim Bacharach • • oii • The Board. of Trustees ultimately has the final say of what goes in this College community. lt is the general overseer of campus activity and has final approval of budgeting, College appropriations, and funding. It is my impression that the position of student representative to the Board of Trustees is the most effective and responsible position that a Union College student can hold. It is essential that the student Trustee be more responsive to the College community in order to give a viable description -of student life to members of the Board who are not members of the campus community. There has been little heard about this position from the present student Trustees. Thus one such consideration the electors must give is will the new representative speak out. Another is will the candidate have a sense of all groupings within the College, and also can the candidate get along with the administrators on a workable level. If one is considering voting consider these characteristics, and others one may wish to include, against all candidates. The electors must be responsible in selecting a candidate for this position which is the most important post a student can hold. Tom Richardson • * * • Traditionally at this time of year. candidates for the student offices which will be vacated write a position paper to ·concordy. It's . again time to bitch about stuccoing the Humanities and Social Science Buildings, denounce tuition and room increases while planned cuts in the budget will adversely affect many students, cry that student apathy is rampant, say the entire system needs revision, state that - somethmg -inust be done' and that the candidate will work his hardest to get it done. If you Robert Gerber bother to read these qampaign statements, l'm sure you're tired of them by n<>w. Since I have no desire to fit into expected and plastic campaign behavior. I'll try to spare youfrom what you must surely expect. _ Every year a sophomore is elected to tbe Board of Trustees. \The affairs of the school\ are under the board's jurisdiction. The purpase of the student trustee is to enable the hoard to \feel the pulse\ of stlldent opinion. I'm running for that position not because it will look good on my record but because I think I'll enjoy it and can do a good Job. If I'm the one out of the multitude that you choose I will not only promise, but do three things. The single major advantage of being the student trustee is the availability of accurate information. I will submit to Concordy all relevant information concerning pressing problems. In those articles I will also present what I believe to be the \pulse of the b('ard.\ Secondly, I'll make myself, as well as the minutes, of the meetings available to any student who wants to see me or read them. I'll make time for any interested student. Firially, being elected will not give me a free ticket. I'll take polls on all sensitive issues when the majority opinion of the student body is not clear. For lack of a good closing sentence; please vote for me. Sincerely, R ()bert Gerber * ,.. • • I am seeking the position on the Board of Trustees. I am a student extremely concerned with l Inion College and .I wish to actively participate in perpetuating its attributes and meeting its deficiencies through suggested changes. One particular concern of mine deals with the structure of our Student Center_ This should be a major facet of student life on campus. Yet. ours falls far short of this goal. :(n the next year, I hope to promote this as one of the major priorities of the Union Board of Trustees. I desire to best utilize my knowledge and experience gained with the Union College student government and- with other outside organizational hodies in accomplishing the above. Sincerely. Hank Bernstein • * ... • Union is now at a critical point in its history. The Martin years of growth and ·~quiet revolution\ as the Underground Guide describes the period, are ending. The College must find answers to several key questions affecting the dynamics of Union's future. Will new buildings be constructed and where? What about off-campus expansion? Should new academic areas be explored, or old ones discontinued? What should our academic mission or style be? What about athletics: intramural or intercollegiate emphasis? And the crucial problem: money - where will the increases irt income come from to offset rising costs? r I Jr. Bonner and the Boara 01 rrustees will decide on these and other issues in the next few years. Student opinion and experience can have inestimable value in shaping and guiding Union's path. 1\ student Trustee gathers and collects the aforementioned student opinion and experience oy being visible, easHy access,ible, and listening to as many campus voices as possible. This can best he accomplished by a continuing yet detached interest in campus organizations. The trustee must understand the purpose of campus groups but be able to objectively mediate the sometimes conflicting goals of these groups. 1\ trustee must give equal consideration to minority interests and the rights of the individual llnion student, protecting and presenting the lesser held ,-iewpoint. 1\ Trustee's other main purpose is to. inform the campus community of the Board of Trustees' actions. This task is. best . served by a Concordy column when enough information is generated. The student Trustees could well utilize this medium as a f<lrum for ideas on Union's · growth, inviting comments from other students in reply. I believe that I can· fulfill the role of student Trustee as describ-ed. I am involved in arenas of College life ranging from admissions to alumni affairs, athletics to the IFC to academics. I am certain that I can work well with the other Trustee in serving the Union community. The Trustee, in actuality, is a combination of legislator- lobbyist-press agent. I feel confident that I can be effective in a II of these skills, providing l Inion students a voice and a force in the operation and contin- uation of this institution. Respectfully submitted, Joel Buckberg qeo.ff Taylor It is my belief that the position that carries the most responsibility in the College's governance structure is the postt1on of Student Representative to the Board of Trustees. It is also my belief that this position is the one which students know least about. This must change if students wanttheir opinions conveyed to the Board. I seek this position because it has the highest potential to fulfill student needs. No concrete promises are to be made be_cause the issues for next year are not before me. I cannot promise an outcome because I would only be one of thirty Trustees on the Board. My job would entail a great deal of listening to students who wish to be heard, 1,1sing my judgement in deciding what. student opinion is on various issues, and conveying that knowledge to the Board. Elections Tuesday JJfay 7 In College Center issues. This year I am an RA in Potter House on Lenox Road and although I am not a fraternity hrother anywhere, l feel l am aware of the concerns of fraternities. At the present time I am also News Editor of Concordiensis which provides me with a great deal of information on campus life. One area ldo not lee! very qualified in representing are the commuters. This problem can be remedied if they would eome and talk with tne on issues that affect them. A final statement .:._ I respect this position a great deal and I respect the students at Union. Please consider me as a serious candidate and feel free to call on me for any questions, Geoffrey Taylor Craig !~{fries Every reform, however necessary, will by weak minds be carried to an excess, that itself will need reforming. Support my oallot, so that together we may insure positive steps forward in the future of Union College. Craig Jeffries * * * * It can be said that the main function of the Board of Trustees is to provide direction to the college: to choose priorities and goals toward which the resources of the college may be allocated. It is fai~ to say that all of the members of the board are. sincerely interested in the college, and probably devote more time concerning themselves with where the school is going than any student on campus. This function and concern of theirs makes it interesting for them to get student opm10n on the matters concerning the fiJ.ture of the college. ihe value of having student representatives· on the hoard, then, is to provide the hoard with opinions of people outside the administration who are involved in the day-to.;(fay proceedings of the campus and who perceive first-hand the functioning of the college - specifically the educational process. The student sees from an important viewpoint what the strengths and weaknesses of the main function of the college are, and can contribute to the direction-giving function of the board. 1 am running for student representative to the Board of Trustees because it is an area in which, I feel, l can function effectively. I am not given to the artificiality of .mass campaigns motivated by euphoric slogans like ••cammunity,\ and the fostering of mass friendships to · promote such feelings - neither accomplish the objective. Progress toward these ends can be made only through the sincere convictions, interests, and efforts of individuals for the future of the college and for the individuals who comprise the college. This is Judy Dein The problem with I) nion College is that H1ere are no major problems. There are no key issues about which candidates can argue. Only a very s.maU percentage of the students here are involved in school politics. but that's because when things go pretty smoothly students can afford to spend. more time pursuing personal interests. The Board of Trustees makes final decisions concerning school policies, educational innovations and financial allocations at Union College. These decisions affect all of us; when money is allocated for useless projects, the students . suffer. Student participation on the Board of Trustees enables the Board to deal not only with numbers and balanced budgets, hut also with student desires and realistic responses to change in school policy. The student representatives are obviously closest to .school life at Union College, and by communicating. with other students they can get some general reaetion to proposed eha!'J.ges and decisions. Hopefully every candidate has confidence in their own ability to meet the requirements of each position. After al\, bad decisions will hurt everyone, and thos not willing or capable of doing the work involveq should not run for office. As co-editor of Concordiensis and member of th~ Cl!rricular Affairs Committee I feel that I have met many of the people involved in policy making here at Union, and I've learned much of ''the way things get done around here.\ Consequently, I feel that I can actively participate and try to influence decisions made by the Hoard of Trustees. If you have any questi@ns or things you'd like to talk about, I live at 302 West. Thank you, Judy Deiit • * \' • * :-,mce I graduated from high school, I have been working with the Board of Trustees of that school. During my high school years when I met with the board; I became friendly with four men. Three of these men were already college or university presidents and the other became a president of a college last year. After talking with each of these men this year, I think, I can say I have a good understanding of how a college or university board of trustees functions. A student representative on the hoard must know .how his/her fellow student feel, and what they want to see done. I honestly believe that if the students had gotten on the backs of our present representatives about this stuccoing issue something In my freshman year I became an active member on the Library Committee and am very familiar with the problems there. I was also privileged with thefriendship of numerous student leaders on campus and received a broad range of opinions on a variety of · what I offer, different might have happened. l think it is much better to spend some. money on ivy $500 or $1000, and then spend the test of t~e $15,000 on campus lighting Continued on Page 5 Nicholas F. Coward Jl • • tl ( a s r \ r ( c ( s \ r f r l t \i r a c ·\ I s r c f r I ( I ( r ( (

(I ,J? CONCORDJENSJS, Thursday, May 2, 1974 More Candidates Have a Say Vice Presidential Candidates Presidential What exactly are the duties of the Vice President of the Steering Committee? Many members of the Union College Community are not really familiar with the significance 'nor the responsibilities ·Of the office. The Vice President, aside from being a member of the Steering Committee itself, is also the t:hairman of the Committee on Committees and he oversees all student committees and the appointment of students to their ~taffs. I see my major responsibility, if elected, being I. the staffing of these committees with c.ompetent people, 2. personally attending these meetings, making sure they are pwperly run and 3. insuring that the committees are, in fact, responding to the needs of the t:ommunity, their sole reason for t:xistence. My first priority would be a better unity of the College community through the reconstruction of the Student Social Committee. Whether it be Board Candidate Continued from Page 4 which we desperately need. Some of the things I would like to see done in the near future .(within five years). are, I. See a new gym built. This was talked about when the board was on campus last month and it seems . we will be getting a new facility. a new Pub on campus, serving li4uor, having happy hours; live performers on weekends (such as the Coffeehouse) possihly located in the Studen-t Union, or-carnival l.t'ays in the spring with bands and festivities on Library Field, 1 have ruany ideas and much energy designed to bring the College out of hibernation and together, enjoying themselves. The same is true in other areas, concerning other committees such as better gym and exercise facilities for the \HJmen on Campus coming under the Athletic Committee, a much · more i·n depth center of information and guidance under the student life committee, (etc.). In seeking the Vice Presidency of the Steering Committee, I hring with me an ability to represent a wide range of students and interests, an awareness of community needs from service on committees and a real desire to !:>ring the issues to the students for their apprbval or disapproval instead of losing them forever in the depths of the committee files. As I said, I have ideas,, lots of them, for building upon the solid foundations. we have already started and for rebuilding those which have crumbled. I also have two good ears which I intend to use to listen. I borrow these lines from Joni Mitchell in her song, \The Same Situation:\ Still I sent up my prayer Wondering who was there to hear I said send me somebody Who's strong, and somewhat sincere. Support me flnd allow me to be that somebody. Come on, let's get something done. Brian Tucker· Although they say they will not start until they have raised 1.8 million (3 million is the projected cost). 'I have my doubts, if they find it hard to raise $200,000 to put a third floor on the new library extension where will they come· up with 1.8 million. 2. More campus lighting. This campus is extremely poorly lit. The lights by the Science Center are very inefficient they're incandescent hulbs. People on this campus talk about saving money well if we used efficient lighting and would get more of it this campus might he a safer place. 3. If there is one thing we need, it's a place we can caH a STUDENT CENTER. One am a candidate for Vice- floor in Carnegie Hall is not President of the Steering enough, plus Carnegie has almost Committee because I feel that this nothing in it to attracf students. is the office which provides the . One thought I have is use old gre~te'st. opportunity .for Gym Hall as a union. If and when straightenmg . out a few thmgs they start to work on the Nott around . this l?vely l.ittle Memorial the Admission Office • ~ommumty; ~specmlly UniOn's will end up in the renovated Nott. ta~ous co.mmitte~ system: This would leave Old Gym hall ~ ~e V1ce-Pres1dent Sits. ex- free. If it were to he gutted we officio on ~II student committe~s; would then have a much larger hut most I?tportantly, he 7haus space than just one floor in the. Committee .o~ Committee~. Carnegie. Another benefit of This t.ongue-twistmg . b?dY Is having it be in Old Gym Hall is responsible for appomtmg all the Rathskeller, this way , it studen.t member~ of ~he many wouldn't be far to get something committ~es which, ':' effect, to eat or drink, a major drawback operate m most o~ the Important of Carnegie. 4. We now have an areall, __ of ~ampus .hfe. . exte.nsion to our library, but the ~tIS t~Is COJ?mlttee whtch must quality of what we have in the h.e~r: at least m p~rt, the respon- older portion leaves something to ~Jbillt~ for the fa~lures .of o.t?er he desired. 1 hope that the Board ~ 1 ?mm1~tees to fulfill theu ~ut~es. of Trustees will allocate here IS no process for revte\:'mg additional funds to the library so the performance of committee we can have a library of quality, it ~llemb~rs ex~ept for the. annual is the most important educational ·electiOn and appomtment tool we have on campus and it process,. . It seems . that the should be of high quality. Committee on Coml!uttees s,hould We as students have a \say\ in <~Is~ t~ke an ongomg. poltcy of many things on campus if we rev1ewmg the . per.forfl!ance of decide to use it. 1 am running for 1~1embers, dra.wmg heavily on. the one of the offices where this \say\ recom~endatton~ of the vanous can be exercised. committee chairman. .Further, If you have any questions, or though~ . should ~e giVen. to ideas you would like to discuss streamhm~g the en!Ir~ committee (about the board members on it syst~m. It IS very possible that the . '. . ' efficiency of the system would be or are mterested m the names of · d b h b 1 .. h. th II . 'd t 1 rmprove ·yteaoismgsome e co ege prest en s , . . . . mentioned) please don't hesitate committees: or tnergmg some mto to call, my number is 377-0051. I nevv committ~es. . . can oniy be sensitive to what l he cbmmittee system at Um?n students want if they let nie know. presents an excellent opportum~y Hunt Eg_gleston for students to exert a certam ,. M, ~~~ J ' - amount of control over their own lives. Yet, this potential can never he reached without the effective stewardship cif the Committee on Committees . .I. don't know that I dn solve all Union's problems, hut I would like the opportunity to try and make a dent in some of them. To this end, I ask for your \ ote on Tuesday, May 7. Thank you. fhris O'Connor '76 • * * * What do you do on any given weekend? Do you g.o off campus for entertainment? Do you end up watching T.V.? Do you go home? Maybe you go to the Skeller and stand around looking for a seat? Or maybe you're a real night owl and don't get started till late, only to find that the campus is already tucked in for the night? Or do you just sit around thinking about what you should be doing? And then you ask. \what's there to do.\ Shit. There is a marked absence of a sense of unity on campus. This springs from the lack of cohesiveness in student life. The College should begin to take more initiative itself and provide more for the students rather than rely on the frats and individual parties to supply entertainment. The most efficient way to spark student life would be to convert · Carnegie into a .real student center. .As it stands there is nothing to draw people there. A food and beer concession should he installed; more ping pong and pool tables and more pinball machines should be added; live music should be provided (move the Coffeehouses there); and the physical plant should be altered to accommodate the necessary changes. For nostalgia the Skeller could be kept around, possibly as a wine and cheese cellar or maybe it could be convertea into a regular bar. Union is confronted by a rather peculiar, yet beneficial, situation. We have an administration that has proven to be responsive to the students and may even be more libeval in their outlook than the stud.(!nts themselves. This means that· changes can be made. The ugly' side of the situation is that we ·have' no one to blame but ourselves for the failure to initiate any changes we may want. It is student apathy that is stifling reform. Why should the administration bother to . make chimges if the students don't care enough to initiate changes themselves? Everybody must want something changed. Both the grading system and the calendar need changes; reform is needed to step up the soda) life; and I'm sure that there are plenty of other things that could use alteration. Changes can be realized if people are willing to work for them. Being only a freshman I have even greater incentive to work because I'll be around to profit from the results. I have another three years here, so I can work and grow with the school for the benefit of both present and future students. To achieve results we must work for them, and I am willing to work, with you, for the desired goals. Howie Lax Hopefuls As I announce my candidacy for President of the Steering Committee you will probably be asking me the same old questions \What do you have to offer? What do you stand (or that your opponent does not?\ Well, although I have expressed my opinions and taken stands on such issues as the grading system and the calendar, as President my ~tand on the respective issues will he much m<:m influenced by the sentiment of the student body. I. because of my daily contact with a large number of students, feel that I can more honestly get a good sampling of student opinion on those issues which .may appear during the coming school year. Also, because of this contact and my involvement in campus activities, I think I will be in a much better position to more readily inform the students of the activities in the Steering Committee meetings. The relaying of such information to the students is something that has heen terribly lacking from student government during the years that I have been here. Such ignorance on the part of the student body has been a major source of the student apathy which I shall try to eliminate. As far as new issues go, I see the operations of the Athletic Department developing into a rather major issue. I am definitely in favor of some form of review system here. We seem to be experiencing a great inefficiency and misuse of money on athletics hut this still remains the one department in the school where we have nothing (not even Linebacker) tc control its operations. It is quite obvious that my goals as President of the Steering Committee will mafnly be in the direction of reducing student a pa thv and increasing student involv~ITJ.erit. The fratern(tles hav; heen a major factor in the social _life of this school, and I hope to he able to brmg about closer relations between fraternity members and those students who live in dorms and off campus. This will make for a stronger Union College. Go out and vote on Tuesday, May 7th. Jeff Broomes, '75 Anyone with ·questio.ns may call me at 6127. Other candidates will utilize a political statement of this nature to bullshit about the \relevant issues\ on campus (e.g. the social life, the calendar year, the grading system, se~urity problems, etc.) Yet, important underlying problems exist which I believe are most important for consideration. First, it is necessary to revive the faltering sense of ·community among Union students. 'Secondly, it would be desirable to encourage students to participate to, a greater extent in the many activities offered at Union. As President, I will direct the Steering Committee to pursue these policies because these are the most constructive ways to commit our efforts. In other words, if these goals are approached, the prestige and effectiveness of the Steering Committee would be increased because good-willed cooperation and greater student activity are the real solutions to all the \relevant issues.\ Dave Heilberg Rep. of '77 I am a candidate for Class of 1977 Representative to the Steer- ing Committee. As a whole, the Steering Committee deals with proposals affecting a variety of aspects of campus life. The committee has, for example, proposed changes in the calendar, the grading system,. and the meal plan. The Steering Committee IS a I so divided into two separately functioning groups. the Committee on Committees and the conduct Committee. As I see it, the major problem with the Steering Committee is a lack of communication between it and the students. I would like to see more students aware of what issues the Steering Committee is considering. In addition, I think there should be more oppor- tunities for students to suggest proposals to their repre- sentatives. If elected, I would be more than willing to help promote such communications, whether it be by advertising meetings, submitting articles to Concotdiensis, or setting aside the \greying\ ot the Social Science and Humanities huildings, because I can't. I can tell you that if there is an issue that you feel strongly about I will make it my business to hear your opinion and make others, in a position with power to make changes, also hear your opinion. If the Class of '77 works together :we can be an important part of the decision-making at Union College. Les Trachtman .~•••••aml!!'.lllra!'2•a!au time to find out 'students' views. In order for the Steering Com- mittee to be effective, there must he more interaction between students and the Committee. I'd like to initiate an objective, rational approach to the policy- making decisions of the Steering Committee. Phi Delta Theta announces softball and beer Sunday, the 5th of May · Hamburgers and hot dogs will be provided for 50 cents. Any money above and beyond expenses will go to charity. (Phi Delt is the house with the red door above the socc'r field.) The elections are May 7th - I urge all students to get out and \bte. * * • Allison Brickley • • cannot tell you how I am going to change Union's calendar or how single-handedly I will stop ·I have come in contact with severat factions on campus who express many progressive orig- inal opinions and ideas. This large group of people are unduly for- gotten by the Steering Committee, which is the voice of student opinion. As Ramsey Clark has said, Continued on Page 6

Page6' Continued from Page 5· ''The system has· excluded the very people it needs.\ As. is the prima fade case of the student government at Union College. A minority of students have always been involved with the school politics: As a result, the Steering Committee favors this elite minority and the people's interests are not served. I am doing this to serve my own interests and if elected I can serve yours. Debbie Malumed Rep of '76 Alan Gnessin This statement is to inform you that I am running for one of the t'\:o positions of Steering C'omm1ttee Representative for the Class of '76. While this statement might well be the proper forum to make certaiJ1 pledges and promises, I am reluctant to do so in good conscience since I well admit that as our government r~:ow stands. any pledge or promise might be beyond by a bilitv to fulfill it. Yet. I wouid like to sav something on mv behalf. ·1 believe myself -aware of the respon~ibilities of a Steering Comm1ttee Representative and ciJmpetent to fulfill them. More so. if throughout mv entire term (which will be of ·a two vear duration) I accomplish nothing more then what others believe to be of trivial importance. I will still serve our class to the· best of my abilities and above aiL keep them informed of all matters, not merelv those arising in the Steering Committee. that transpire throughout the governmental systems of Union C'ollepe. Alan Gnessin • • • • * Springtime is upon us. But whil~ other men's thoughts are tu~mng toward sowing wild oats. this man's thoughts· have turned .toward politics. Why politics? ~ecause I fe~l that I can help 1mprove Umon, and political participation seems to be the m0st available way to institute change. One of the changes I will propose is an alternative to our present grading system. Instead of our current five-point system. I would like to institute a svstem where students would have the option of taking each of their courses either under the five point system or under the twelve point system(+'s and -'s). The advantage of this. grading svstem is obvious: the maximization of the student body's satisfaction. Pre-meds. pre-laws. and other pre-professional students would he able to choose the more exacting and competitive twelve- point system in order to increase their chances of getting accepted by graduate schools or employers. Other students, ones not so concerned with grades. ·Would be able to take their courses under the five-point ·system like they do now. Clearlv, instituting this proposal at Union would make more of its students happier than its present grading system does. You might like this proposal CONCORD!ENSJS, Thursrlay, May 2, 1974 . Division Candidates or you might not. But that's not really the point. The point is that I care about improving Union and I'm always thinking of wavs in which to do it. This is whv niv thoughts have turned to politics this spring. Vote for me and help me sow my own kind of wild oats: improv,i,ng Union. Lee Rimsky Division H As a stud~nt at Union College and a cand1date for Division U (Social -sciences) Representative to ~he All-College Senate, I have noticed that. while there are stiH problems at Union College. ,there ·are very few defined issues. While certain issue areas that have already been voted on bv the Senate may be revived next- vear there still remains the problem of whe!her or not the legislative bod1es and students of this school can grab a hold of certain broad questions dealing with the welfare of Union and turn these questions into specific issue areas for public debate. ' Of. course. a broad problem that 1s often bnmght up is the lack of communication· among students and between students and the facultv and a~ministration. Union· students sllll do not form a cohesive community. Furthermore, in speakinp: with a present member of the AII-Coiiege Senate. I have been given the impression· that faculty and students do not seem to communicate with each other on issues that come before the Senate. As a Division II r e pres e n t at i v e I w iII do two t_hinl?s , .to· remedy this SituatiOn. F1rst of all. 1 will send ?ut brief newsletters periodicallv m order to inform Division ii students of what is going on in the All-Collepe Senate and what I think of the issues. Secondlv. I will make it my business· to request permission to sit as an ohserver at Division II faculty meetinps and .discover what the faculty thinks on certain issues and whv it thinks that wav. Another p:eneral probiem that I have become concerned with can he put in the form of a question. \Has Union gone coed or are women iust visiting?\ In other words. it appears that while lJ nion has been officiallv coed since Sept em her. I 970 and while dorms have heen adapted for women. the Collep:e is onlv beginning to adapt other facilitie.s or proj!rams for women in the areas of athletics and music. Hopefully. the athletic program for women will he expanded beyond softball and field hockev and will he looked upon more seriously than iust as a novel idea. Furthermore. more active encouragement might be given to the Women's Glee Club. ~hile both of the previouslv mentioned situations ·(com-- munication and coeducation) seem to involve \motherhood'\issues. the fact that the problems remain unsolved means that thev involve more than motherho.od issues As Division II Representative, I believe that I could do much for the solution to these and other problems. It must be rem em hered that activism breeds ,issues. We can decide !\o let these problems a lone and let theni take ;~heir toll or we can decide that. ,Just because things are ctuiet. it does not mean thinps are good. I prefer to do the latter ' . . ... Jonathan Levin •••• I am writing this statement to ask all members of Division 2 to wou.l~ add unfavorably to a ~ufftciently competitive academic a,tmasphere. · concern and willingness to work for the students' best interests. Unfortunately for the voters. this ~oncern and willingness to work 1s hard to assess in each candidate. In an attempt to make your choice easier. I ha¥e listed what I feel to be a sufficient demonstratio.n of my c0ncern for vote for me for thdr · 2.) I am also against the switch to a split winter tertn calendar which has been proposed to replace the current calendar. I personally like to go home for a vacation with my mind free of ac~demic worries and as~Jgnments .. I don't believe that this would be the case for the v~cation proposed. during the wmter term. The argument that getti~g out i? the middle of May provtdes Union students a better chance in the job market .ignores the fact that many Eastern schools would still be ori their summer vacation before Union was. dismissed. Further, a split would also create problems for lab courses which re:ly on a degree of centinuity from week to week. ·the students of Divisian IV: I served on the All-College Senate as ~ freshman. when it was just gettmg started. I have worked on Linebacker since l was a freshman. and have worked as a c_omputer oper<1tor for students smce I was a sophomore. I have se;rved on the Eledions. Student Life. and 01mputer Science Committees. and was elected i:nto the Delphic Societv this vear Representative to the All-College Senate. I want this position because I think I can help solve one of our maior problems on campus. the lack\ of ·communication between the ~tudent body a,nd student ,!!OVernment. You mav he sick of · hearing it. but as ·t·he current student ~urvey shows. most ~tudents are f'o~allv confused about the povernance svstern and have no idea who their repFesentative is this vear. I will try to .improve com.munication throup:h mailing of notices and polls to members of Division 2. I am provinp that I will do this bv mailing out a campaign statement this week to Divsion 2 nie~he:s. With this approach. wh1ch 1s not very revolutionary or difficult. I could carrv o~t may main responsibilitv, which is to find out what peo.ple in mv division think about the issues .a·s they develop. It would enahle me to explain what the Student Senate is doing:. my position, and to act the way most of the memhers want me to act. Of, course. when no clear position is evident a repre~entative must propose his own 1deas and take a stand, on some issues. One area like this ~hich should be discussed again 1s the grading svstem. Most students want some kind of chanj!e and many want the old system. One solution mig:ht he to allow students to choose the svstem thev each want for themselves. since manv know whether or iwt a certain svstem will benefit them for reason~ such as graduate school admissions. I am not goinl! to dish out all kinds of promises or proposals about matters over which the Senate has no control. l onlv want to add that I think I'll do a responsible and competent ioh. and Division 2 members will know who ~heir representative is. if I'm elected. ~·,, Joseph Silver Division Ill It's general know1edge arouod Union College that few people read these articles. The reason generally given for this is. their monotonous and boring content. I could not, in all honesty,. claim that what is to follow is a great exception to this norm, but the few stalwarts .reading this piece will be .. pleased to know it is going to be brief. · A number of issues have gained attention this year at Union. My position on a few of these is as follows: _ I.) Although the proposed change in the grading system has been defeated this year, I would like to go on the record as being against its implementation in the future at Union. I feel that it J.) I am in favor of any action taken :by the College whkh would open the door for NCAA t,oumament action for the oaskerball team. ~mong the other pr:ojects wh~ch l would like to see put in act10n are a further upgrading of the intramural program and the possible acquisition of cable television for the student center. In Ce!>nclusion, one might ask why I decided to run for this ~lffice. I simply feel that l can do the job. It would be trite to make <my promises at this point about what I would do if elected. All 1 can say is that I wili try to be o~e~ to. ~h.e different opinions \\Jthm DIV·lSton III once elected to the All-College Senate. Mark Rosenthal • • • As for the future. ( hope to start an An-College Senate newsletter (as I started a comptlter science committee newsletter this year) · to inform my constituents of events and ~ominJ! events in the Senate of ~nterest. Hopefully this will Increase student awareness and involvement in government at Union. If you have any questions or wo~ld like to hear some of mv feehngs on life at Unien ~ please call me at 346-9422. or drop by t~e computer center Sundav mp:ht between 9-11 p,m. - Robin L. Waring '7S \' * * • • Compared with most schools Union is small. Yet, in a plac~ ~vhere one would expect a lot of wrpmunication between students faculty and administration, th~ opp?site exists here. Most people dqn t even know who their am very pleased to announce division senator is (Pete Tayino). that thanks to the Division 3 One way to remedy this situation members who signed my petition, !s to have ~he representative p.lace my name will be placed on the m the. ma1lbpx of all of his/her ballot for representative to the constituents a newsletter All-College Senate. explaining .what was brought up Like most small private colleges at the prev1ous meeting, what was around the country, we are faced passed, what will be coming up at ''ith sharply rising costs for the t_he next meeting, and a request ptice of a college education. With Lor student feedback. the cost of room and board Another growing problem at increasing by ·about $120 next [Inion is increased costs. In the year and a very possible $300 past two years; tuition has tuition increase projected for the increased II 0(.. It will do so next 197S-76 schoor year, I believe that year (with the dropping of the the time has come for us to t:ee lOth course). The predicted cl~se~y- examine our budgetary nse for 1975-76 is consistent with pnonhes and attempt to hold r~st increases. The entire budget these rising costs down. In \\Ill have to be looked over next addition, I feel that a strong year. As it stands now, four athletic program and a athleticprogramswillbedropped functioning student union ne~t year which, I feel, would he huilding are essential to campus romtless considering the small life. amount of money which will be As was pointed out by the saved. ('oncordiensis Survey of Student In order to deal with these l.ife at Union which was · problems, the representatives of published in the April 25th issue, the student body will have to the majority of students were not work ha~d. in h_and with faculty aware of who the student and adm1mstrat10n. I have been t·epresentative to the All-Coll~ge represen~ing the students in Senate was from their division. Mec~ahtcal Engineering and I:his . is a very unfortunate Phys~cs at the respective faculty s1tuat10n that can and must be meetmgs over the past year. This remedied by using the outlets ~xp~rience has given me a better available to us such as publishing leelmg fo~ the existing problems Senate minutes in Concordy and and poss1ble ways in how to broadcasting summaries of the handle them. Senate meetings over WRUC. In the past, Division 4 has had With less than a week to go the lowest turnout of voters. 1 hefore the election, I again ask urge you to . let yourselves be that if I am not able to meet you heard. Vote on May 7th for your personally, please feel free to call r~presentative to the All-College me at 370-6470 or stop by my Senate. room, 310 South, anytime of the Mark Scheuer day. I would very much like to hear your comments and opinions and I hope that you will give me the opportunity to serve to the hest of my ability as your representative to the Afl-College • • • * • Senate. Glenn would like to take this opportunity to introduce myself· as a candidate for the Division IV r~presentative of the All College W If Senate. As the representative of 0 son_ the Math, Physics, Engineering, and lnte~departmental majors, I am Iookmg for the chance to Division IV ln running for All-College Senate. a candidate needs no qualifications othet than a •represent you in the Senate: Although many think that its work is a little Jess than interesting, l am concerned about · many of the de~isions which they- make and I Wtsh to be a more Continued on P~ge 7 l ( - Pa Ar grc fif sta sit llll• six yo ere \'0 CV€ wh sta ~ta dil all SU( La SOl ca' lac (}VI .pit no he4 reJ ca1 so ho oe tht an4 De wa fo1 esc on I ro< Ch Ac lo\ rer the COl (M w Jo Gc Ar pe1 n en; stu pe Ur AI tel gn an pe SU4 Su we (W m< ai< pi) ar th Ia

Flame Chet~s Folly by BLAIR REISCHER The concer-t last Saturday for Parents' Weekend featured \Chet Arthur and the Flaming Aces,'; a group of Union students who sing f.ifties \greaser\ music. The show started with Jon 'Duke' Levin sitting up -front with a microphone playing \You're sixteen, You're beautiful, and you're mine,\ on his .guitar, crooning the words in a wrenched voice. The high point of the evening came fifteen seconds later when · the seven other Aces stormed up from the back of the >tage and smashed Levin's guitar, After that, it was all anti- dimatic, with the group singing all the songs we've heard before, such as .. Sll.a'na-na-na\ and ~'Tell Laura l luuv heL\ Between each song. the singers picked fights with each other, criticizedeach other\s lack of ability to sing, and argued over who was going to play the .pitch--pi pes. The problem with the Aces is not that they are not good, hecause they an~;. but that their repertoire is severely limited, One can listen to \Sha'na~na-na\ just so many times before one gets · hored. The juvenile squabbles hetween each song are amusing the first time, but they get worse and worse as the show progresses. Despite all this, Memorial Chapel was packed., and the crowd c~lled for two encores before the Aces escaped. They are worth seeing, once. Rave Review by Torch As the audience clapped, rocked, and roared, Union's own Chet Arthur and the Flaming Aces sang the songs that we all love and remember (or pretend to remember anyway), the songs of the. \greaser 50's~· The group, consisting of Mark MacDonald (Mac), Sandy Shore, Mark Whittlesey (:Bozzo), Bill Martin, Jonny Levin (Duke), Mike Goldsmith (Teenangel), Don Amira (Bo),. and Jim Kestenbaum performed in a packed Memorial Chapel Saturday night, entertaining both parents and students. The Flaming Aces have perfQrmed in Coffeehouses at Union and at a telethon at Albany, which was broadcast on television. Songs new to the group included\Mr. Bass Man\ and .. Beep Beep,\ both very well performed. Some standard oldies, such as ''Blue Moon,\ \Runaway Sue,\ and \Teenager in Love\ were also done well. The group sings acappeHa (without accompaniment), an<l managed to keep in tune with the aid of a single note from a pitch pipe, The use of the pitch pipe was humourously incorporated into the act, so listening to the group get ready for every song was never tedious. Clowning around between songs helped put the audience in the right mood to laugh at some of the. JAKE LIPSTEN'S LIQUORS Tel.37.._1 .. .Mon • .S.t. 9 a.m.-9 p.m; «i4 State St. I I . I - CONCORDIENSIS, Thursda_v .. May 2, 1974 Page 7 On Survey R~sults: . Great Concern with Grades Sandy Shore .croons to packed audience:. photo by Dave Strom choreography, sounds, and fa-cial expressions interjected in each song. At times the performers seemed' to be at a loss for w:ords, hut a quiok entrance into a song always avoided boredom. •. Chet Arthur and the Flaming Aces definitely have talent. !hey ~ing extremely well, they put on a good show, a.nd they seern to be having fun. The two standing ovations received at the end of Saturday~s show were justly deserved. It was also kind of fun to watch the sheepish grins of parents who were dvagged to the concert by their kids as they admitted that maybe the music wasn't that bad .... Candidate Continued from Page 6 active participant. Some of the changes I would like to see are the improvement of communication between the Senate and the students on important issues, also better planning of student activities, and more effective student inputs into L'ampus decision making. I think the Seha te has been anything but informative about their actions. It has generally become the case that many Senate decisions don't reach a great number of students until afte.r they have been acted m1. This, I feel, is one of the prohlems which must be faced. If you have any questions, I 1\0Uid encourage you to ask me. I may be reached at 346-9126 or in room 115 Davidson Hall. John Fildes When asked to react to the statement \Most Uni9n College students are .too concerned with their grades,\ .a majority of those w h o r e s ponded agree d wholeheartedly. According to the Concordy .survey distributed last term, 55.8% of the 430 students who answered the question agreed strongly (students. wete given the option of agreeing strongly, agreeing somewhat,. remaining neutral, <lisagreeing somewhat, and disagreeing strongly). By grouping the responses into two categ(Jries, it ca,n be said .that 80.9% felt that students here are too concer-ned with grades. 2.8% felt the question inappropriate, or they did not know enough ab<,mt the question to answer it. . Women seem to feel that the preoccupation with grades is more prevalent than do the men; 86.2% of the women agreed with the statement, but only 78.9% of the men did. ~~erage VVork VVeek 59.2% of the students questioned spend between 18 and 42 hours per week on schoolwork, including classes. It must be noted !'hat student response is not very accurate since some students claimed t·hat they worked 40 hours one week and none the next. Still, some interesting observations may be made, The most common response (17.1%) was that the student devotes 28-32 hours per week to work. The next most common answers were 23-27 hours ( 15.1%) and 33-37 hours (14.1%). Division III Study Most Of the Jl6 students questioned who were members of Division lii. 71.7% spend 28 hours or more doing schoolwork. This amount of time is put in by 59.7% of respondents in Division I, 57.9% in Division ll, and 70% in Division IV. It appea·rs that Center II's (Divisions Ill and IV) complaint that they have more \homework\ has some basis, unless of course they procrastinate more than those in Center I. On the other hand, Center l's complaint that they rarely see some of the Science and Engineering \throats\ may have some truth tQ it. A question asked on the survey was \What is the probability of your going on to graduate or professional school? (I) Almost certain (2) Greater than 50-50 (3) Less than 50-50 (4) Very Slight.\ From the response it appears that the greater the chance of a student continuing on to graduate ~chool. the more time he devotes to school work. 68.1% of those definitely going on to professional school spend more than 28 hours per week on school work. Higher Curnes Come to Union Studying may not be the only reason that cumes have increased during the past few years at Union. One option given in the questionnaire is that \the cumulative index inflation during the past few years has been due to an increasing quality of students.\ In every class year except for 5th- year students, approximately 30% of the students agreed to some extent with the above statement. The general response was I 9.4% didn't know enough or found the question inappropriate, 30.4% agreed somewhat, 2 I .8% disagreed somewhat, and 13.1% were neutral. 10.3% disagreed strongly and 4.9% agreed strongly. Fifth year studentli, however, disagreed unanimously with the idea that an mtlux of \better\ students has raised the average index at Union. Lower Standard suggested · Most students disagree with the statement that cumulative index inflation has been due to lower standards of academic achievement; 26.5% disagree somewhat and 20.1% disagree strongly. Students do not feel that teachers have lowered standards. Demands of Grad Schools Cause Increase Increased competition for admission to graduate and professional schools seems to be the most widely accepted reason for the cume inflation over the last few years. In every class other than freshman, over 80% agreed with the statement that increased competition for admission to graduate and professional schools has caused the .inflation.66.1% of the -freshman class also supported this theoty:. Coeducation Coeducation also appears to be an accepted reason for increasing cumes on campus. 50% of the females questioned adhered to the helief that their appearance on campus has increased cumes, and a rousing 42.8% of the males also agree. The survey did not ask for an explanation of the answer/ Bonus Faculty As a small college Union prides itself on the close personal relationships which can develop hetween professors and students. It is also concerned with each prof's performance in the classroom. According to the responses to the statement \With few exceptions, the Union College faculty are good classroom instructors,\ Union has succeeded . in at least attaining part of its goal as a small school. Ranging from freshmen to 5th year students, the following are the percentages of students who agreed that the faculty is good in classroom perf ormance: 1 freshmen -- 43.4% sophs - 39.3% juniors - 47.1% seniors - 46.9%, and 5th year - 28.6%. If I Could Choose Again .•• When asked if they, given another chance, would choose Union again, more than 2/3 of the students voted yes. 28.2% of the junior class in general would decide against Union. Of the · Senior class, 27.7% would make another choice. A workshop on the Multiple Linear Regression Program (MLRP) will be- held on Wednesday. May 8, at 4:30 in SS115. Thi!i is being presented jointly by the Computer Center and various academic departments. Faculty members The Edward Fox Blues Band wilf hegin hlastin~: hass and tJA.•an!(inK treble at Busv/s. a joint on Union St. on(l'{our hlocks past Brand.J'JA.'ine on the left, from 8 to The discontentment does not seem to lie with the faculty however. Of those who would not select Union again, 58% still feel that the faculty are good classroom instructors; only 31.7% helieve that the faculty is poor in the classroom. It seems as if there is a discontentment with life at Union College, but it does not lie entirely in the academic world 12 Sunday, May 5. ((you care. you'll he there. from the Departments . of Chemistry, Economics, arid Political Science will explain applit:ations of MLRP within their dis~iplines. -----. LeVI.:S :....--~-- ----- ____ ....._._ , tftlc!J i Jlaint ~rmonf I - I ex/)ert instructiiJR iA the 1 scent£ hills or Ver111ont 1 OORM STYLE LODGDIG AND ALL MEALS I JULY 7-27--$4$0--LIMITED ENROLLMENT I I ~ITE--THE Mnn:fs Em woRKSHop L:_~V ECOLE, Pi'l'TSFORD. ,~• OS76.3 .I I, here. The. Booter· 147 JAY ST. 147 JAY ST. HAND SEWN STEERHIDE MOC~ASINS MEN'S $31.95 - ~30.95c~~~~N WOMEN's· $27.95- $26.95co'i,':~N

Page8 CONCORDIENSJS. Thursday, May 2, 1974 What To Do When Not Throating by JACK PITNEY Rla1in~ Saddles is positive proof that writer-director Mel Brooks is completely out of his mind. l.ackin~ plot. theme or any known form of logic. this is easilv the ~ost incoherent mo¥ie of !:he _vear. And one of the . funniest. The film concerns the exploits of a black sheriff (C'1eavon Little) trvi n.~r tn protect the a 11-white ' Popillon by JACK PITNEY Papillon is a great movie for perverts to see. Sadists will gurgle over the gallons of blood spilled by knives, bullets and guillotines. Masochists will love sitting . through a 212-hour movie with a I \!:!-hour plot. For the rest of the audience the movie will be a disappointment. The true story of Papillon's escape from Devil's Island has the potential for a truly suspenseful film, but apparently that is not what director Franklin Schaffner had in mind. In the interests of Art and Heavy Message, he made Papillon a graphic (no, downright gory) compendium of the horrors of the French prison system in the 1920's. His social concern is commendable, but it is fifty years too late. Perhaps Papillon's only asset is Steve McQueen's remarkable performance in the title role. McQueen portrays Papillon with a beautiful mixture of fear and gritty determination. Though no match for McQueen, Dustin Hoffman is also fine as Papillon's best friend, a man clever enough to plan an escape but not courageous enough to lead it. Nonetheless, the strength of the performances cannot overcome the plodding pace of the film. lroncially, the advertising blurbs proclaiming .. Escape is Everything\ are deadly accurate, for Pap ilion leaves one cl({ar image beckoning in the mind: the EXIT sign of the movie theater. town of Rock Ridge from land grabber Hedley Lamarr (Harvey Korman). On this flimsy peg, Brooks stri n~s a rapid sequence of outrageous ~ags. some of which rank with the best of the Marx Brothers. For instance. when a white foreman tells a gang of black laborers to sing a spiritual. thev respond with a rendition of Cole Porter's \I Get a Kick Out of You.\ The film's funniest (and most notorious) sequence comes when a ~roup of cow hovs discover the after-effects of eatin~ too many beans. Like anv broad comedv. Blazing Saddles is inconsistent. Many of the iokes simply backfire and the comic effect of the fllm\s scatology wears off all too early. Blazing Saddles nevertheless succeeds: the lunacy is its own itlstification. 3 Musketeers by CHUCK ROTHMAN On occasion. a movie that looks unpromising l!t first glance may turn out to he an especially · fine film. A good example is The Three Musketeers. How could anyone make an interesting movie out of that old story? Well. director Richard Lester (A Hard Day's Night, Help) has succeeded in not only making the storv interesting.. hut also in produc.inl! an especially fi.ne and funnv film. Lester has co111bined a penchant for realism a~ well a,~ his comic gift in order to give the storv of d'Ar.tagnan a new life. The movie is extremely funny and. at,the same time. follows the origina I novel fairly closely. !.ester's handling of the various scenes (.)f swordplay is hrillia,nt. We feel that the actors are actually fighting f.or their lives at the same time we laugh at the slapstick. There is none of the feeling of choreographed movement that is often apparent· in scree.n swordfi~hts. The rest of the film is also as well done. The plot covers the first half of Dumas' classic (the entire novel was filmed. but because of its len~t,h the movie is being released in two parts. the curreNt film being the first part). It tells of • d'Artagnan's attempt to ioin the king's musketeers and the deed that gave him this honor- the retrieval of a set of diamonds whose loss might compromise the queen. It is impossible to single out the hest performances in the all- star cast (includin~t Oliver Reed. Richard Chamberlain. Charleton 1 Heston. Christopher Lee. and Fa ve Dunawav) Michael York. 1s fine ·as d' Artagnan as the character matmes from a countrv bumpkin to a true swashhucking swordsman. Perhaps the most impressive performance comes from an unexpected corner. Raquel Welch. as d'Artagnan's girlfriend. shows ,that she really can act with l'ln impressive talent for slapstick that makes her one of the manv delights of the movie·. The Three Musketeers is a fine film. as well done and fmmorous as anv film in vears. A trip to see it will certainlv he a rcewarding experience. Twin Peaks by CHUCK ROTHMAN Hard rock is extremely difficult to perform well with any degree of consistency. It is especially difficult on a live album, where the recording is not so well- controlled as in the studio. These facts come to mmd when discussing the return of Mountain, Twin Peaks. Mountain was one of the better hard rock groups. They managed to remain fairly consistent, although there were ·times when one cou.Jd classify them as loud noise. The group broke up but has now reformed with its center, Leslie West and Felix Pappalardi, intact. Twin Peaks Was recorded at a concert given in Osaka, Japan last August. It is well-recorded for a live album; the songs don't degenerate into mere sound and the instruments mix nicely. The group sticks to old favorites. .There is nothing new here; songs are merely extended into a live format, and perhaps _over- extended. Two sides of this double album contain nothing but \Nantucket Sleighride,\ which is too much time for the song. The other two sides are fine, including such favorites as \Theme for an Imaginary Western,\ \Silver Paper,\ and \Mississippi Queen.\ Contrai)• to tumor, these vehicles, seen where they are parked at the base adjacent to the Girling Center, will not be used fn a land-and-water demo derh:v at the Sigma Chi clambake. One wishes, though, that they had waited until they had new material before releasing this one. It would be nice to see if anything new comes out of this regrouping. Viva Zappa by CHUCK ROTHMAN When one is discussing progressive rock music, the name of Frank Zappa should always be mentioned. During the sixties he was a grea,t innovator, experimenting in fusing elements of rock; jazz, and classical music. Zappa's stuff has never been particularly commercial, since he was too interested in his music to worry about whether the public would like it. His new album, Apostrophe, is his most commercial O',lnd als() one of his be'st. Apostrophe' may be Zappa's first gold album, just because music in the past few years has become increasingly sophisticated so that Zappa is no longer the only one attempting this type of' sound. lJ1Herent musical ideas are well-integrated into such songs as \Don't Eat the Yellow. Snow,\ \Stink-foot and the title; an instrumental. As you might guess from these titles, Zappa still retains his sense of humor and satirical eye. The music is complex and more than one listen is necessary to see all he is trying to do. As usual, an impresslve collection of musicians back him, some with familiar names and others that deserve to be because of the talent they display. Besides writing the music himself (with some help from Jack Bruce and .lim Gordon), Zappa plays guitar and sings, and his vocals .aad much to the album. All in all, a fine effort by a fine musician. HELL. For Union College Drug Assistance Call 370~6196 That's what life can be, doing drugs.· But it daesn't have to be that way. Help is av~ilable, day or night. CALL tHE DRUG HOTLINE • 800-522-2193 TOLL-FREE • NEW YORK CITY, 24().;9300 - I of Ed.i a ad( stu' Lo1 the sch on inf1 dift for ~ thi (Se rerr in 1 cull \er: incl diff Nal am• app Am thn life! whi cult has pro \ari the T d.ifl cdu Am not• lnd con abo schc in a rese agg valt Bee; hav• unn thei the) viev acce timt refit Ha Hu goc stn wa Vic wir cor Th, 4Ui tak he hac clic Mr fr0 anc suf rut ., inc Be( the hes wit ~· t the SoJ voc

Page8 CONCORD lENS IS. Thursday. May 2. 1974 What To Do When Not Throating hv JAC'K PITNEY Rla1i ng Saddles is positive proof that writer-director Mel Rrooks is completely out of his mind. Lacking plot. theme or any known form of logic. this is easilv the n'l'ost incoherent movie of the vear. And one of the . funniest. The film concerns the exploits of a hlack sheriff (('lea von Little) trvin!! to nrotect the all-white ' Papillon by JACK PITNEY Papillon is a great movie for perverts to see. Sadists will gurgle mer the gallons of blood spilled hy knives, bullets and guillotines. Masochists will love sitting through a 2Y:?-hour movie with a I Y,-hour plot. For the rest of the audience the movie will be a disappointment. Ihe true story of Papillon's escape from Devil's Island has the potential for a truly suspenseful film. but apparently that is not v.hat director Franklin Schaffner had in mind. In the interests of Art and Heavy Message, he made Papillon a graphic (no, downright gory) compendium of the horrors of the French prison system in the 1920's. His social concern is commendable, but it is fifty years too late. Perhaps Papillon's only asset is Steve McQueen's remarkable performance in the title role. McQueen portrays Papillon with a beautiful mixture of fear and gritty determination. Though no match for McQueen, Dustin Hoffman is also fine as Papillon's best friend, a man clever enough to plan an escape but not courageous enough to lead it. :'-/ onetheless, the strength of the performances cannot overcome the plodding pace of the film. i roncially, the advertising blurbs proclaiming \Escape is Everything\ are deadly accurate, for Papillon leaves one clear image beckoning in the mind: the EXIT sign of the movie theater. town of Rock Rid)!e from land grahher Hedlev I.amarr CHarvev Korman). On this flimsv peg, Rrooks strings a rapid sequence of outrageous gap:s. smne of which rank with the hest of the Marx Brothers. For instance. when a white foreman tells a gang of hlack lahorers to sing a spiritual. thev respond with a rendition of Cole Porter's \I Get a Kick Otlt of You.\ The film's I funniest (and most notonousl <;equence comes when a group of cowhovs discover the after-effects of eating too 01any heans. like anv broad comedy. Blazing Saddles is inconsistent. Manv of the iokes simply backfire and the comic effect of the film's scatology wears off all too earlv. Blazing Saddles nevertheless succeeds: the lunacy is its own justification. I < 3 Musketeers by CHUCK ROTHMAN On occasioN. a movie that looks unpromising a.t first glance may turn out to he an especially · fine film. A good example is The Three Musketeers. How could a Tl\\one make an interesting movie out of that old storv? WelL director Richard Lester (A Hard Day's Night, Help) has swcceeded in not onlv making the storv interestiFlp. hut also in producin.g an especiallv fine and fnnnv film. I ester has combined a penchant for realism as well as his comic gift iN order to give the -;ton· of d'Art.agmm a new life. The movie is extremelv funm and. at,thc same time. follows the origililal novel fai.rl\ close!\. I ester's handliN~ of the various scene' of swordplav is hrilliant. We feel that the actors arc actuallv fightin[.! for their lives at the same time we laugh at the slap~;tick. There is none of the feeling of choreographed mowment that is often apparent in '>Creen swordfights. The rest of the film is a !so as we II done. The plot coYers the first half of Dumas' classic (the entire novel was filmed. hut because of its length the movie is heing released in two parts. the current film hein,!l the first part). It teHs of · d'Artap:nan's attempt to join the kinj.!'s musketeers and the deed that gave him this honor - the retrieval of a set of diamonds whose loss might compromise the queen. It is impossihle to single out the hest performances in the all- -;tar cast (incl~Jdin,!l Oliver Reed. Richard C'hamherlain. ('harleton • Heston. Christopher I ee. and Fave Dunawav) Michnel York 1s fine ·as d'Artagnan as the charaL·ter mature~ from a countrv humpkin to a true swashhucking c;wordsman. Perhaps the most impre~si\ e perform a nee comes from an uHexpected corner. Raquel Welch. as d'Arta)!nan's girlfriend. shows that she reallv can act with an impressive talent for .;lapstick that makes her one of the man\\ delights of the movie. The Three Musketeers is a fine film. as well done and liumorous a\ an\' film in Year'>. A trip to see it will rertainh· he a rewarding experience. Twin Peaks by CHUCK ROTHMAN Hard rock is extremely difficult to perform well with any degree of consistency. It is especially difficult on a live album, where the recording is not so well- controlled as in the studio. These facts come to mmd when discussing the return of Mountain, Twin Peaks. 1\1 ountain was one of the better hard rock groups. They managed to remain fairly consistent, although there were times when one could classify them as loud noise. The group broke up but has now reformed with its center, Leslie West and Felix Pappalardi, intact. Twin Peaks was recorded at a concert given in Osaka. Japan last /\ ugust. It is well-recorded for a live album; the songs don't degenerate into mere sound and the instruments mix nicely. The group sticks to old favorites. There is nothing new here: songs are merely extended into a live format. and perhaps over- extended. Two sides of this double album contain nothing but \Nantucket Sleighride.\ which is too much time for the song. The other two sides are fine, including ~uch favorites as \Theme for an Imaginary Western,\ \Silver Paper.\ and \Mississippi Queen.\ Contrtn:v to rumor, these vehicles. seen where thev are parked at the base adjacent to the GirlinK Center. will not be used in a land-and-water demo derby at the SiKma Chi clambake. One wishes. though. that they had waited until they had new material hef ore releasing this one. It would he nice to see if anything new comes out of this regrouping. Viva Zappa by CHUCK ROTHMAN When one is discussing progressive rock music, the name of Frank Zappa should always be mentioned. During the sixties he was a great in no vat or, experimenting in fusing elements of rock, jazz, and classical music. Zappa's stuff has never been particularly commercial, since he was too interested in his music to worry about whether the public would like it. His new album, Apostrophe, is his most commercial and also one of his best. Apostrophe' may be Zappa's first gold album, just hecause music in the past few years has become increasingly sophisticated so that Zappa is no longer the only one attempting this type of sound. U1tterent musical ideas are well-integrated into such songs as \Don't Eat the Yellow Snow,\ \Stink-foot and the title; an instrumental. As you might guess from these titles, Zappa still retains his sense of humor and satirical eye. The music is complex and more than one listen is necessary to see all he is trying to do. As usual, an impresshoe collection of musicians back him, some with familiar names and others that deserve to be because of the talent they display. Besides writing the music himself (with some help from Jack Bruce and Jim Gordon), Zappa plays guitar and sings, and his vocals add much to the <Jibum. All in all, a fine effort hy a fine musician. HELL. For Union College Drug Assistance Can 370-6196 That's what life can be, doing drugs. But it doesn't have to be that way. Help is available, day or night. CALL THE DRUG HOTLINE • 800-522-2193 TOLL-FREE • NEW YORK CITY, 246-9300 - a ad stt I.e the ~d on inf dif 1\01 th (Sc rer m cui \Cl inc Jif '>;a aN' ap.J Ar thr life \\h cui ha: pn \111 the d if t•dt An 1101 Inc cor abc ~ch Ill: res' ag1 \a( Be< hm Unl the the \ ie ace tim refl H: HI go Stl Wl Vi \\ i l'O n 4U tal he ha di M rn an su ru 10( Be the he Wl at the So \10

;} ·) \ \'(\I ' , ~ ~;I , • '·. •· . •'. 1 '·' '.'' ' ' • ( . · . ' ; .. · ·) ' . . \ CONCORDIENSJS, Thursday, May 2. 1974 Page 9 N.Y. indian Attacks \Melting Pot'' by BI'LL KATZ Lincoln C. White, Supervisor of the Native American Education of New York State and a Mohawk Indian himself, addressed a. group of about 25 students on April 24 in Strauss Lounge. White's talk, which was the first in a series of four sohed'uled by the Comp. Ed. class on American . Indians, centered informally around the need for a different educational &pproach for Native Ameri~an students. His basic .premise in guiding this newly formed unit (September 1973) is that, ''To remain a viable,. ongoing society in the U.S. we need to rec-ognize cuHural diversity.\ Mr. White 'ery clearly pointed out that (his includes recognizing·not only the differences between Whites and Native Americans but differences among all ethnic group$. _In apply,ing this principle to Native American Education, part of his thrust is to revitalize cultural lifestyles, pa rticul&rly language, which he sees as fundamental to a culture. In line with this his unit has been help.ing to develop programs 'of Native lang'-!age on \artous reservations throughout the state. pot is a myth\ and \there is no ~~~1-Amer.ican person.'' Other speakers in this series will include Margo Thunderbird, daughter of the chief of the Shinnecock Indians, May I st at 7:30 p.m; Prof. William Fenton,, authority on lroquoisculture from Albany State, May 15th at 10:30 <~.m; and Chief Irving Powless of the Onondaga tribe at 7:30 p.m. on May 29th. AU meetings will be held in Strauss LoJJnge. Telephone Fund raisers Compete STl:JOENT PHONATHON M!ly ~0-23 T h e U ni on C oll e g e Development Office, announced Mike .Garone ('75), Chairman of the 1974 Onion College Student Phonathon, wiU sponsor a week- long telephone fund-raising effort, consisting entirely of student volunteers. The evenings of Monday, May 20 through Thursday. May 23, 1974, will be set aside for the second annual student phonathon, this year to be run on a competitive basis. Teams consisting <>f eight .people may enter; tw() people from each team are to man the phones each night of the four day period. callinJ.l; alumni to solicit contribu~ions, At students on the phone can talk to the. end of the four nights tlte, .. al:u·mnl in· the Ro.eky Mountain team with. the higfiest .:dol~ar . ~nd \'Pacific ~·inie· Z(>nt;s .. 1 1mount in pledges· ~md the team This phonathon provides an with the greatest number of opportunity for students to donors will each receive a keg of perform an important function Michelob, compliments of the for Union College. Gifts received Development Office. Individual from the phonathon. go in~o the prizes wiU be given nightly to the Annual Fund wh1ch directly persons with the .highest dollar supports the op~ration o~ th.e total and with the most donors. College. In add1t1on to wh1ch It Each evening will begin with pmvides many lighter moments, sandwiches and beer served from as alumni take advantage of the ~ :4'S until 6:15. f.ollowed hv a direct contact with students to ask session of mstructi·on ~nd for inside information. phonathon tips from Gordon There is roo~ for only 15 Decker, Director of the Annual teams. All those Interested should Fund. Refreshments will continue contact either Mike Garone (370- a II evening. Calling will then 4474) or Bill Kuchta in Lamont commence and continue as long House as soon as possible. as desired (within reason). so the The Opera The Capital Area Resident Opera Company will give a concert rendition of Menotti's two short operas, 14 1'he Old Maid and the Thief' and \The Telephone,\ Saturday, May 4 at Union College with the program scheduled for 8. p.m. in Memorial Chapel. The performance is open free to the public. Also at Union in May will be readings by two prominent American authors . The existence of some very different attitudes toward t:ducation on the part of Native American students was also noted. Despite the fact that the Indians have high aspirations concerning college (for example about 80 percent go on from high school as opposed to 60 percent in areas surrounding the Mohawk reservation) they lack the kind -of Glee•Cluh pe~forms at Prize Day ••• Monday, May li at 8 p.m. in the Social Science Auditorium, Howard Nemerov, one of this country's most prolific and acclaitned poets, will give a reading. A fellow of the American Academy of Poets, Nemerov now teaches at Washington University in St. Louis. His most recent book of poetry is \Gnomes and Occasions\ published in 1973. photo by Leslie Steineker aggressiveness traditionally· valued in . our school systems. Hecause of this lndi&n st11dents have been mistakenly labeled as unmotivated, when in a-ctuality their motivations are rtot any less, they're just different. In White's view, we must acknowledge and accept these differences. It is high time that our educational systems reflect the facts that \the melting Prize Day Honors Students ••• Monday, May 15 at 8 p.m. by BEN WILBUR Mr. Maurice A. Deane, Chairman of the Parents' Fund and a graduate of.' Lehigh and the {) niversity of Utah greeted parents and students last Saturday morning to begin the Prize Day . ceremonies. He reported that, of the goal of $40,000 for the Parents' Fund More Notes Continued from PaRe 3 Han-sel and Gretel by Engelbert Humperdinck, which received a good pe·rformance with some strong playing by the brasses. It was followed by the. Brahms Violin Concerto, done by the winner of this year's soloist competition. Robert Feldman. The performance was rather quirky: an unusual approach was taken by the soloist. Nevertheless, he received a strong orchestral backup, and everything began to click in the finale: As ari encore, Mr. Feldman played a bouree from one of Bach's English Suites and played it well, although it suffered from a· bit of excess rubato. Tl)e concluding work was the incidental music to Egmont of Beethoven, and it was here that the orchestra really sounded its best. T-he reading was excellent, with a far superior balance than 11t the winter concert,._ although the strings are still a bit weak. Soprano GaiJ Campbell sang her vocal arias beautifully and Professor Hans Freund gave a narration which provided real continuity for what is otherwise a collection -of bits lind scraps. On the whole it was a very good concert. Weekend Performances Over Parents' Weekend there were several concerts of interest, beginning with the Mitchell-Ruff Duo on Friday night. The Jaffe lecturers for this year, Mitchell and Ruff, 'spoke' musically on jaZ7., pla1y'ing two ve~y good sets. The best was the second, where- they had everything together artd the audience felt it. Finally, the Women's Glee Club gave an excelient recital Saturday afternoon. The group is ltbly directed by Pat Deckert, although Lytm Birdsall, a conducting student here., gave her conducting debut during the concert. This small but fine ensemble has received far too little attention, an~ it is sincerely hoped that the school will act to replace the. director, who is leaving next vear. 111· . \A QUIET BAR ... A. PLACE TO TALK\ THE Red Fox Inn PIZZA FRIDAY & SATURDAY S.UP.M. . BUD BY THE PITCHER ll3.JAVST. JCHENECtADY· in the Social Science d.rive initiated last fall, $19,080 awards. Auditorium, Stanle:y Elkin whose IH!d been received to date from To end the proceedings, the most reeent novel \Searches and 347 donors. A significant portion Glee Club sang Union's Alma Seizures\ was nominated for of the present total has -been Mater. National Book Award in Fiction, received within the 'last month, will give a reading. Elkin also announced Mr. Deane. Iii.,..,..,..,..,.,...,....,..,,....,...,._.,.:.._ eacbes at Washington University Following the opening remarks, PI SIGMA ALPHA in St. Louis. President Martin had a few words A. chapter of Pi Sigma Alpha, to say before prizes were national political science awarded. President Martin honor society, has been proclaimed Union fo be a established at Union College. with \healthy place,\ and cited three criteria a schoo.J must meet in. 14 students and six faculty order to be .. healthy:\ it must members elected as charter members. have both a good program and . 1 .h U · f It members e mon acu y facilities, a high reputation, and initiated were Joe Board. Bob the ·~attitudes and feelings of Sharlet. Jim Underwood, Fred those wllo know it intimately\ must be sound. Hartwig, Byron Nichols, ~nd Charles M. Tidmarch, who also As a final point. he acclaimed serve.s as advisor to the group. Union by saying that th~ \grea.t The students are Les Tolchin, thing\ about it is that it is not \homogeneous and complacent.\ Johnny Levin, Torn Bartman, Martin Lichterman, Dean of l.arry Brown, Deborah Burns, Faculty, then began to hand out Steve Wayne, John Perlstein, j\.1 the first prizes (all prize recipients Reisch, Julie Thalen, Jim are listed below}. Dean Wylef1, Sletteland, Dave Bernat, Doug Dean Smith, Coach William Carpenter, Anne Gemmell and Scanlon, and President Martin t.:-.; .. ·,.an._c,.ylro.IIK._e.ss~ool•er .... ~._..,..._..,...,.~ 111 also helped to distributed lhe ' ' Sunday, May 12 is Mothers Day. Surprise her with a lovely pendant or charm from Graubart and Sons to mark the occasion 14 Serving Schenectady for 3 Generations ANNEX STEAK HOUSE Corner or Eastern Ave. & McClellan OPEN Di\ILY 11:30to 12 MidniJtht 372-9740 STEAK SPECIAL CHOICE SIRLOIN STEAK French Fries. T os~ed Salad $4.35 Roast Chicken Specia.l Chicken· French Fries. Tossed Salad · S3:40 . Boned Prime Ribs of Beef~ Au Jus Potatoes-Salad- Ve~retable $5.25 CQmplete Menu 6[ Steaks, Chops &: Sea· Food

\ I\' \'\I . ~ I CONCORD!ENS!S, Thursday, Mm· 2. 1974 N.Y. Indian Attacks \Melting Pot\ Telephone Fund raisers Compete by BILL KATZ l.inwln C. White, Supervisor of th.e Native American Eclucaticm of New York State and a Mohawk Indian himself, addressed a group of about 25 sttldents on April 24 in Strauss Lounge. White's talk, which was the first in a series of four ~cheduled by the Comp. Ed. class on American Indians, centered informally around the need for a different educational approach for Native American students. 1-1 is basic premise in guiding this newly formed unit (September 1973) is that, \To remain a viable, ongoing society in the U.S. we need to recognize ctl'!iural diversity.\ Mr. White \ ery clearly pointed out that this includes recognizing ·not only the d iffe remes between Whites and '>;ative Americans but differences among all ethnic groups. In applyin,g this principle to Native American Education, part of his thrust is to revitalize cultural lifestyles, particularly language, v. hich he sees as fundamental to a culture. In line with this his unit has been helping to develop programs 'of Native language on \a rio us reservations throughout the state. rot is a myth\ and \there is no all-American person.\ Other speakers in this ~eries v. iH include Margo Thunderbird, daughter of the chief of the Shinnecock Indians, May lst at 7:30 p.m; Prof. William Fenton, authority on lroquoisculture from Albany State. May 15th at 10:30 a.m; and Chief Irving Powless of the Onondaga tribe at 7:30p.m. on May 29th. All meetings will be held in Strauss Lounge. STUDENT PHONATHON May 20-23 rhe Union College Development Office, announced Mike Garone ('75), Chairman of the 1974 Union College Student l'honathon, will sponsor a week- long telephoNe fund-raising effort, consisting entirely of student \ olunteers. l'he evenings of Monday, May 20 through Thursday, May 23, 1974. wHI be set aside for the second annual student phonathon, this year to be run on a competitive basis. Teams consisting of eight people may enter; two people from each team are to man the phones each night of the four day period. cal·ling alumni to solicit contributions. At the end of the four nights the team with the highest dollar amount in pledges and the team with the greatest number of donors will each receive a keg of M ichelob, compliments of the Development Office. Individual pri7es will be given nightly to the persons with the highest dollar total and with the most donors. Each evening will begin with ~andwiches and beer served from '\·4\i until 11:15. f.oHowed hv a ~ession ot Instruction and phonathon tips from Gordon Decker, Director of the Annua<l Fund. Refreshments will continue a 1'1 evening. Calling will then commence and continue as long as desired (within reason). so the The existence of some very different attitudes toward l·ducatio11 on the part of Native American students was also noted. Despite the fact that the Indians have high aspirations concern it1g college (for example about 8() percent go on from high ~chool as opposed to 60 percent in areas surrounding the Mohawk reservation) they lack the kind of G!ee·Cluh pe~(orms at Prize Day photo by Leslie Steineker aggressiveness traditionally· \ alued in our school systems. Heca use of this Indian students have been mistakenly labeled as unmotivated, when in actuality their motivations are not any less, they're just different. In White's Prize Day Honors Students \ iew. we must acknowledge and accept these differences. It is high time that our educational systems reflect the facts that \the melting by BEN WILBUR Mr. Maurice A. Deane, Chairman of the Parents' Fund and a graduate of Lehigh and the [ lniversity of Utah greeted parents and students last Saturday morning to begin the Prize Day ceremonies. He reported that, of the goal of S40.000 for the Parents' Fund More Notes ( · ontinued from Pa~e J Hansel and Gretel by Engelbert Humperdinck, which received a good performance with some strong playing by the brasses. It was followed by the Brahms Violin Concerto, done by the \\ mner of this year's soloist l'ompetition. Robert Feldman. rhe performance was rather 4uirky: an unusual approach was taken hy the soloist. Nevertheless, he received a strong orchestral backup. and everything began to click in the finale. As an encore, Mr. Feldman played a bouree from one of Bach's English Suites and played it well, although it suffered from a bit of excess rubato. The concluding work was the incidental music to Egmont of Beet hoven, and it was here that the orchestra really sounded its best. T-he reading was excellent, with a far superior balance than at the winter concert,• although the strings are still a bit weak. Soprano Gail Campbell sang her vocal arias beautifully and l[ri Professor Hans Freund gave a narration which provided real continuity for what is otherwise a collection of bits and scraps. On the whole it was a very good concert. Weekend Performances Over Parents' Weekend there \\ere several concerts of interest, hcginning with the Mitchell-Ruff Duo on Friday night. The Jaffe lecturers for this year, Mitchell and Ruff. 'spoke' musically on jan. playing two very good sets. rht best was the second, where they had everything together and the audience felt it. Finally, the Women's Glee Club gave an excellent recital Saturday afternoon. The group is ably directed by Pat Deckert, although Lynn Birdsall. a l'onducting Student here, gave her conducting debut during the concert. This small but fine ensemble has received far too little attention, and it is sincerely hoped that the school will act to replace the director, who is leavin,g· next vear. \A QUIET BAR ... A PLACE TO TALK\ THE Red Fox Inn PIZZA FRIDAY & SATURDAY 5-ll P.M. BUD BY THE PITCHER 1l3JAY ST. SCHENECTADY • awards. ro end the proceedings, the Glee Club sang Union's Alma Ma·ter. ' ' Sunday. May 12 is Mothers Day. Surprise her with a lovely pendant or charm from Graubart and Sons to mark the occasion \Serving Schenectady for 3 Generations students on the phone can talk to alumni in the Rocky Mountain and Pacific time zones. This phonathon provides an opportunity for students to perform an important function for Union College. Gifts received from the phonathon go into the Annual Fund which directly supports the operation of the College. In addition to which it provides many lighter moments, as alumni take advantage of the (hrect contact with students to ask for inside information. There is room for only 15 teams. All those interested should contact either Mike Garone (370- 4474) or Bill Kuchta in Lamont !-louse as soon as possible. The Opera The Capital Area Resident Opera Company will give a concert rendition of Menotti's two short operas, \The Old Maid and the Thier' and \The Telephone,\ Saturday, May 4 at Union College with the program scheduled for 8 p.m. in Memorial Chapel. The performance is open free to the public. Also at Union in May will be readings by two prominent American authors . ... Monday, May 6 at 8 p.m. in the Social Science Auditorium, Howard Nemerov, one of this country's most prolific and acclaimed poets, will give a reading. A fellow of the American Academy of Poets, Nemerov now teaches at Washington University in St. Louis. His most recent book of poetry is \Gnomes and Occasions\ published in 1973. ... Monday, May 15 at 8 p.m. in the Social Science Auditorium, Stanley Elkin whose most recent novel \Searches and Seizures\ was nominated for National Book Award in Fiction. will give a reading. Elkin also eaches at Washington University in St. Louis. ·----- .. Le·V_I:.S: ANNEX STEAK HOUSE Corner of Eastern Ave. & McClellan OPEN DAILY 11 :30 to 12 Midnight 372-9740 STEAK SPECIAL CHOICE SIRLOIN STEAK French Fries. Tossed Salad $4.35 Roast Chicken Special Chicken French Frifs- Tossed Salad $3AO , Boned Prime Ribs of Beef- Au Jus Potatoes-Salad-Vegetable $5.25 Complete Menu Qf Steaks, Chops & Sea Food

Page 10 CONCORDTENSTS, Thursday, May 2, 1974 BLITHER The Union College Off-Campus Housing Booklet is now available for .all students. Pick up your copy at the Housing Office in Old G.ym Hall. * \' * * 'The Red Cmss Bloodmobile will be at Union on Friday, May l7 onl\,1. Please donate your \gift of life.\ \' * \' * Anvone interested in taking a standard First Aid course. please call I~ene Sachs at 346-9344. \' * \' * Cave Dwellers. wiiJ run on May 8,. 9, 10, and II. starting at 8:00 p.m. Call t.he Nott to reserve tickets. * * * * To all students in the classes of 1975, 1976, and 1977: be sure to save ID cards. Only the incoming class will receiv~ new ID cards in September. * * * * Evervone is invited to help clean and paint the Women's Center, Carneiie Room 20l. It's a huge room with much potential and iri need of renovation. Come. see old friends and meet new ones. We'll have free drinks and cookies and music. The Women's Center will be used as a central ·office for the various activities sponsored by the Women's Caucus. and a place for organizational meetings, seminars. and social get-togethers. Other proposals are to establish birth control and abortion referral services, a lounge. and a library. The date for the cleanup is Friday. May 3. * * * * William Hinton. author of Fanshen and other books about China's land and cultural revolution. will speak on May 14 and 15. The timetable is: May 14 at 2:30 p.m. in HU 1!5 on ''Land and Cultural Revalution:\ May 14 at 8:00 p.m. in Arts .202 on the \Socialist Tra.nsformation of China:\ May 15 at Hale House Lounge at 10:00 a.m. on \Ideology and Consciou~ness.\ * * * * There will be a meeting of the sailing club on Wed .. May 8, at 12:45 p.m. in the Social Science tounge. New members are welcome. If vou cannot make it. call Steve Krakauer at 346-9369_ · Orders for shirts will be taken. * * * * Those interested in the Inter-nation Simulation, contact Bob · Gerber, 410 South. Schwarz Spouts Off by JOHN FOSTER If you have a hot spring in your back yard, you ha,ve the potential available for an inexpensive source of energy. ihis area of concern, geothermal energy, was the subject of this week's Physics Dept. Energy Seminar by Prof. Winfred M. Schwarz. Geothermal energy is one of the ca:tch phrases that pops up when someone talks ab0ut the energy crunch,. but rarely do you hear too many facts about this energy source. This is due primarily to the fact that there is little specific information about geothermal energy, as well as few places where it is being used to provide electrica,J energy. At several areas around the ea,rth, the hot magma layer pushes up into the crust layer. The rocks of the crust are extremely good insulators, so the effect is not noticed on the surface. unless a fissure develops resulting in a g~yser or hot spring. This situation 'Can occur one .of India's Crisis by ALAN HUMBERT The energy crisis, that ·lengthened the lines at 'gas stations,. lowered room temperatures and caused an increase in unemployment in the United States, has much more severely affected the people 3!nd economies of the lesser deve;;loped - countries of the world .. India, in particular, has been hit quite hard, as was the su'bject of a lecture Tues. night that was sponsored by the International Relations Club. The lecturer was M arc·us Franda, Assistant Professor of Political Science at Colgate University, and specialist in South Asian affairs. Franda spoke of the triangular s'haped problem that is facing India as a result of the Arab embargo and resulting rise in the price 0f petroleum products. The problem consists of; first, the tripling of the price of imported oil and oil based products. Secondly, increasing cost of petroleum based fertilizers and insecticides, which has subsequently nearly tripled the price of. domestically proouced food. And thirdly, an increase in the price of imported food that amounts to nearly three times .the price paid in 1973. Imported food 1n India accounts for Continued on Page I I three ways: at the meeting of tectonic pJa.tes (that's one to look up); at ridges, where the magma moves up, pushing_ plates apart; and, at th~ meeting of continental shelfs as in the Western U.S. In these cases, water in porous rock is heated up by the tnagma. H ta,pjJed, by a pipe or a fissure, the water emerges as steam capable of dliving a turbine-generator. There are disadvantages .. First, the steam usually is mixed with highly corrosive brine, which must be separated and disposed of. Second, the power plant must he located at the source of the .heat, ·requiring long transmission lines. Thind, there are potential environmental problems because .of the s.pace necessary and the alteration inherent in removing material from the ground. 'Yet, geothermal energy (ifthere is little brine in the steam) costs about half that fr.om fossil fuels. GeGtherma·l' energy will not replace fossil fuels, there does not appear to be that much, but it could help out. ln fact, the biggest obstacle seems to be that tbe oil companies are drilling experts ' and the utilities are electriCity generation experts, but the two cannot agree on how to ·CO~perate or to supply the risk capital. Congratulations are due· Pr.of. Schwarz for an informative and easily understandable hour. ONCE A KNIGH~ BEING SUNK SO DEEP IN THE .SEA OF DEGPONDE BY HIS FAILURE WITH WOMEN, DID RETREAT DEEP INTO THE FOREST WITH A VOLUME OF MOST MELANCHOLY VERSE. WHENCE HIS ROOMIE, A DRAGON, DID COME UPON HIM AND DID iELL HIM OF AWONDROUS WAY TO ATTRACT THE OPPOSITE .SEX: BY MEANS OF THE ANCIENT ART OF THE STREAKE. AND SO, OVER A COUPLE OF FROSTY-COLD CANS OF SCHAEFER-- THE BEER THAT DREAMS ARE BUILT UPON-- THEY DID PLOT THE !<NIGHT'S MAIDEN STREAKE. AND UNDER THE WATCHFUL EYE OF Hl5 MENTOR, IHE KNIGHT 010 PROCEED TO PERFECT HIS STREAI<ING SKILLS ... TO THE GENERAL AMUSEMENT OF ALL THE FURRY BEASTES. AT LAST HE PROVED READY FOR H/S BIG STREAKE. AND DID SET OUT ON HIS WAY ... ACHIEVING SUCH A GREAT VELOCITY THAT HE DID ZIG WHEN HE SHOULD HAVE ZAGGED. PROVING ONCE AGAIN: 'BEING THE OPEN MAN IS MUCH BETTER IN BA51<ET- BALL THAN IN LIFE. Schaefer Breweries. New York .• N.Y .• Balllm0re, Md., Leh1gh Valley, Pa. • f;l

CONCORDJENSIS, Thursday, Mar 2. 1974 BLITHER The Union Colilege Off-Campus Housing Booklet is now available for all students. Plck up your copv at the Housing Office in Old G.vm Hall. * * * * The Red Cross Rloodmohile will he at Union on Friday. May 17 onlv. Please donate voar \gift of life.\ . * * * * An\'one interested in takinj.! a standard First Aid course. please cal! Irene Sachs at 346-9344. * * * * Caw Dwellers will nm on Mav 8. 9. 10. and I I. starting at 8:00 p.m. Call the Nott to reserve tickets. * * * * To a II stHdenls in the classes of 1975. 1976. and 1977: he sure to 'ave ID cards. Onlv the incoming class will receive new 10 cards iA Septemher. * * * * Fvervone is invi,ted to help clean and paint the Women's Center. Carnegie Room 201. It's a huge room with much potential and in need of renovation. Come. see old friends and meet new ones. We'll have free drinks and cookies and music. The Women's Center wia he used as a central office for the various activities sponsored by the Women's Caucus. and a place for organizational meetings. seminars. and social ~et-togethers. Other proposals are to establisfu hirth control and abortion referral services. a lounge. and a library. The da,te for the cleanup is Friday. May 3. * * * * William Hinton. author of Fanshen and other hooks about ChiAa's land and cultural revolution. will speak Olil May 14 and 15. The timeta hie is: M av 14 at 2:30 p.m. in HU 115 on \Land and Cultural Revolution:'; Mav 14 at R:OO p.m. in Arts 202 on the \Socialist Transformation of China:\ May 15 at Hale House T.oun):!e at 10:00 a.m. on \Ideology and Consciousness.\ * * * * There will he a meeting of the sailing cluh on Wed .. May 8. at 12:45 p.m. in the Social Science Lounge. New members are welcome. If vou can not make it. call Steve K rakauer at 346-9369. Orders for shirts will he taken. * * * * Those interested in the Inter-nation Simulation. contact Bob (ierber. 410 South. Schwarz Spouts Off by JOHN FOSTER If you have a hot spring in your hack yard. you have the potential available for an inexper;~sive 'ource of energy. This area of concern. geothermal energy, was the subject of this week's Physics Dept. Energy Setninar by Prof. Winfred M. Schwarz. Geothermal enagy is one of the catch phrases that pops up when someone talks aoout the energy crunch. but rarely do you hear too many facts about this energy source. This is due primarily to the fact that there is little specific information ahm1 t geothermal energy, as well as few places where it is being l'lsed to provide e·iectrical energy. At several areas around the earth. the hot magma layer pushes up into the crust layer. lhe rocks of the crust are extremely good insu:lators. so the effect is not noticed on the surface. unless a fissure develops reswltin:g in a geyser or hot spring. l'h is situation can occur one of India's Crisis by ALAN HUMBERT The energy crisis, that lengthened the lines at gas stations. lowered room temperatures and caused an increase in unemployment in the United States, has much more severely affected the people and economies of the lesser developed countries of the world. India, in particular, has been hit quite hard, as was the subject of a lecture Tues. night that was sponsored by the International Relations Club. The lecturer was Marcus Franda, Assistant Professor of Political Science at Colgate University, and specialist in South Asian affairs. Franda spoke of the triangular shaped problem that is facing India as a result of the Arab embargo and resulting rise in the price of petroleum products. The problem consists of; First, the tripling of the price of imported oil and oil based products. Secondly, increasing cost of petroleum based fertilizers and insecticides, which has subsequently nearly tripled the price of domestically pr~duced food. And thirdly, an increase in the price of imported food that amounts to nearly three times the price paid in 1973. Imported food rn India accounts for Continued on Page II three ways: at the meeting of tectonic plates (that's one to look up); at ridges. where the magma moves up, p~c~shiAg piates apart; and, at the meeting of coAtinental shelfs as in the Western U.S. In these ca'Ses. water in porous rock is he a ted up h y the magma. If tapped. by a pipe or a fissure. the water emerges as :;team capable of driving a turbine-generator. There are disadvantages. First, the steam usuallv is mixed with highly corrosiv~ brine. which rnHst he separated and disposed nf. Second. the power plant must he located at the source of the heat, requiring long transmissiorn lines. Third, there are pot~ntial environmental problems because of the space necessary and the alteration inherent in removing material fvom the grouHd. Yet, geothermal energy (if there is little brine in the steam) costs about half that from fossil fuels. Geothermal energy will not replace fossil fuels, there does not appear to be that much, but it could help out. In fact, the biggest obstacle seems to be that the oil companies are drilling experts and the utilities are electricity generation experts, but the two cannot agree on how to cooperate or to supply the risk capital. Congratulations are due· Prof. Schwarz for an informative and easily understandable hour. ONCE A Kt-JIGHT, BEING .SUNK SO DEEP IN THE SEA OF DESPONDE BY HIS FAILURE WITH WOMEN, DID RETREAT DEEP INTO THE FOREST WITH A VOLUME OF MOST MELANCHOLY VERSE. WHENCE HIS ROOMIE, A DRAGON, DID COME UPON HIM AND DID TELL HIM OF A WONDROUS WAY TO ATTRACT THE OPPOSITE s'EX~ BY MEANS OF THE ANCIENT ART OF THE STREAI<E. AND SO, OVER A COUPLE OF FROSTY-COLD CANS OF SCHAEFER-- THE BEER THAT DREAMS ARE BUILT UPON-- THEY DID PlOT THE KNI6HT'5 MAIDEN STREAKE . AND UNDER THE WATCHFUL EYE OF HIS MENTOR, THE KNIGHT DID PROCEED TO PERFECT HIS STREAI<ING SKILLS ... TO THE GENERAL AMUSEMENT OF ALL THE FURRY Bfi\STES. AT LAST HE PROVED READY FOR HIS BIG STREAKE. AND DID SET OUT ON HIS WAY ... ACHIEVING SUCH A GREAT VELOCITY THAT HE DID ZIG WHEN HE SHOULD HAVE ZAGGED. PROVING ONCE AGAIN: 'BEING THE OPEN MAN IS MUCH BETTER IN BASKET- BALL THAN IN LIFE. ~ ga Schaefer Brewenes. New York, N Y. 8dlt 'more. Md . Leh1gh Vdlley, Pc~ A c se oJ u di pt Sl w I. 111 fi b: bl T u p j, sl g: b. b \II e. sl , ! ' II ·I .

tl ' Sage wins tennis by CLR AND JFM. On April 25, on the Union Avenue courts, the Girl's Tennis Club met Russell Sage for their second match of the season. Sage offered tough competition for the Union team, and the matches displayed a fine quality of performance. by both teams. Four singles and two doubles matches were played. singles match and exhibited a skillful game of tennis. Lee was quite evenly paired with her opponent, but after two close sets the score revealed a 6-4, 6-4 defeat. Lauren Gordon, number four singles, tried to psyche-out her opponent with her red and white striped shirt and socks, but even coupled with fine playing, the match proved unsuccessful with a score of 6-1, 6-4. Pam Anderson, playing in the number one position, had a tough first set, lo si nil f\-1 . but she came back to win the second with a tie breaker, 7•6. In the final .set, Twink fought hard, but was unable to defeat her opponent. Playing second singles was Joanne Muther, who got off to a slow start, losing the first five games of the first set. She rallied back to win the· next four games, but it was not enough and she was defeated 6-4. The second set exhibited strong play and stamina, but resulted in a 6-2 loss. The first doubles teatn, Barb Sarnoff and Wendy Moss, played a· lengthy match executing many fine .shots and showing some great team work. Once again, however, Russell Sage had the wind on their side., winning the match 6-4, 64. Our second doubles team, played by Stenie Plater and Laura Ruggers search anddestroy the hall and each other in last Saturday's game. . Bronstein, were the sole victors of the day. They played a long steady match, ending the second set in a tie breaker victory. The match proved to be a good experience. for the team forcing not onlv phvsicaL hut mental precision. Styles Visits Puerto Rico Lee Russell played the ~hird by DAVID NEIFELD Dr. Twittv .J. Stvles was a member of a Middle States Association of Colleges evaluation team which studied the operations of the Inter-. American Oniversitv of Puerto Rico durin~ the spring break. The Inter-American Universitv is a private institution. with two main calilJlUSes at San German 11nd Hato Rev. There are also ~even regional 2-vear colleges loc11ted at Aguadilla. Areciho. Raranouitas. Ravamon. Faiardo. Gwwama. and Ponce. While there. Dr. Stvles examined the science courses and facilities located at the re~ional colleges, making recommen~ dations to their future needs for long._ninge planning. Dr. Stvles wa~ the .!!uest of Dr. Lawrence S. Ritchie. director of the Puer.t o Rico Nuclear Center. Dr. Stvles o hserved some of the research activities. especiallv at the Med:ical Sciences and Radiohiolo~v Division. This divi~ion is primarilv concerned with tropical diseases. particularll' parasitic and viral infections. which constitute r>r. Stvles' maior area of research 11nd concentration. The Fesearch program at the Center provides trainin~ opportunities in the use of nuclear ener~\' ~t the molecular. celhila r. and organism level. There are four proiects sponsored hv the AEC' Division ot Riologv and Medicine. including those on schist oso~iasis. t rvpa nosomiasis. fascioliasis. and viral infections. Supportive disiciplines are provided hv the division of hiochemistrv. immunolollv. and radiohiolo~y. Dr. Stvles noted that the facilities included a tissue culture unit. an electromicroscope. a cobalt 60 radiation source. and mouse and snail colonies. While in Puerto Rico. Dr. Indian Crisis Stvles also visited the C'arrihean National F0rest. which comprises over 2R.OOO acres. The rain forest portion is the onlv tropical forest in the entire U.S. National Forest Svstem. boasting over 240 different species of trees. all native to the area. Before leaving Puerto Rico. ·,.··\\' ·\ Lee Russell takes a swinf{. Continued from Page 10 approximately 40 percent of the food consumed in India. The rising food prices in India could result in shortages which could affect quite seriously the 240 million people in India that earn less than $4.86 per month, which is considered to be the poverty level. photo credit- Leslie Steineker The Indian economy has not been crippled energy wise as badly as some of the more industrially oriented countries. Thi~ j, dtic to the fact that India draws only 10 percent of its energy from petroleum. About half of India's energy comes coal and water power, with the rest coming from the use of cow dung and agricultural waste products hy the private sector of the economy. To a large number of Indian economists, the problems they - l€VI.S .•• ,;. ~- Sllap ..... t...-....~ 713 ALBANY ST. No delivery char1(e with two -8l'ut pizzas. HDEUVIKK t1NnL MIDNIGHT Cal374-5611 DARI- TREET Steak Dinner· Special Raked Potatoe. & Cole Slaw. Peas or Corn. $2.80 \Student Discount\ (with J.D.) Nowyoucan protect- yourself against muggers, rapists and worse with this amazing new whistle. Wear it as a necklace or carry it as a key chain. Its long-range penetrating shrill brings help in a hurry. The next dark night (that's tonight!) you'll feel a Jot safer just knowing you have the greatest protection in the world. Gives obscene phone callers a shrilling earful, too. GET IT BEFORE YOU HAD 11! COME; IN OR MAIL HANDY COUPON Yesl I want to be saved! Se<1d me_ London-Like Whistles _Key Chain _Necklace · INumberL_ Chrome __ I enclose $3,0.0 for each London·Lil<e Whistle. I understand ihat if I am not totally satiSfied;! will receive a· complete refund 1f returned in 10 days. ' Family Jewels Ltd. 3431 West Villard Avenue Milwaukee, Wisconsin 53209 NAME--------------------~------------- STREETNUMBE~----------------------------­ CITY STATE zjp__:_ .. lace as a resu It of the energy crisis emphasizes the need to develop a new\ economic model that will utilize more fully her vast supplies of coal and decrease the dependency on foreign oil. This new economic model will also have to solve the agricultural side of the fl!e 1 shortage as well, for it poses a bigger problem politically and economically to the Indian government than does the industrial aspect. Dr. Stvles was able to collect man\' rare teachin)Z specimens as he tra\C\Ied around the island. He Is utili7in)Z some of these specimens in the parasitology course he now teaches at Union. - LeVI'S Dave'i' Mens Sllop · 453 State $t.. .. (doWDIOWD $cbenectadY. ........ TOM lAUGHLIN. DELORES TAYLOR •to,SWfintCLARK HOWAT SC1M!11r a, FIWIK MilE liSA CHIIISJIM • ...._ 11r MARY OOSE SIII.TI·Ilnded 11r l C. FIIUIK A llltionll Studllll f\llm Colpntion fli'IMiiall • lfCIIN!OOlGr I PG I Celllwlllllle ...,_.,..,- ..__.s\'O Awa-c-nlea-~-J ONE WEEK ONLYstartinR 'WED. MUHAWK MALL MADISON CINEMA-SCHENEC'T ADY STAR TWIN CINEMA-MENANDS THEATRE·Al-BANY PLAZA 1 1400 ALTAMONT AVE. ROTTERDAM

•• , ' 11 ·I , CONCORD!ENS!S. Thursday, May 2. 1974 ----·------------------------------------ Sage wins tennis by CLR AND JFM On April 25, on the Union Avenue courts, the Girl's Tennis Club met RusseJ!l Sage for their secoNd match of the seasolil. Sage offered tough competition for the UnioN team, and the matches displayed a fine quality of performance by both teams. Four singles and two doubles matches were played. singles match ami exhibited a skillful game of tennis. Lee was 4uite evenly paired with her oppone11t, but after two close sets the score revealed a 6-4, 6-4 defeat. Lauren Gordon, number four singles. tried to psyche-out her opponent with her red and white striped shirt and socks, but even coupled with fine playing, the match proved unsuccessful wi·th a score of 6-1. 6-4. Pam Anderson, playing in the nt~mber one positiolil, had a tough first set. 1 o sing 6-1. but she carne back to win the second with a tie breaker, 7-6. lrn the final set, Twink fought haJ:d, but was unable to defeat her opponent. Playing second singles was Joanne Muther, who got off to a slow start, losiHg the first five games of the first set. She rallied back to win the next four games, but it was not enough and she was defeated 6-4. The second set exhibited strong play and stamina, but resulted in a 6-2 loss. The fiFst doubles team, Barb Sarnoff and Wendy Moss, p<layed a· lengthy match executing many fine shots and slwwing some great team work. Once again, however, Russell Sage had the wind on their side, winning the match 6-4, 6-4. OuT second doubles team, played by Stenie Plater and Laura Bronstein, were the sole victors of the day. They played a long steady match, ending the second set in a tie breaker victory. The match proved to be a good experience for the team forcing not onlv phvsicaL hut mental precisi-on. Ruf(f(ers search and destrov thebafl and each other in fast Saturday's ~arne. Lee Russell played the third . -::: ,.. -...W~-- ,,.If '7-\ 4- ·\\ ~<:: Lee Russe11 takes a .m·inf(. Styles Visits Puerto Rico by DAVID NEIFELO fJr. Twittv J. Stvles was a memher of a Middle States Association of Colle):?:es evalt1ation team which studied the operations of the Inter- American Universitv of Puerto Rico durin~ the srrine hreak. The Inter-American Universitv is a rri\·nte institution. with two main camfluses at San German anct Hat0 Rev. There are also ~eYen rel!ional 2-vea r colleges located at A!!uadillfl. Arcciho. Raranut~itas. Rnvamon. Fniardo. Guavama. and Ponce. While there. Dr. Stvlcs exnmined the science courses and facilitic\ located at the re.uional colleges. making recommen- <.lations to their future needs for long-range planning. Dr. StYles wa~ the euest of Or. I awrence S. Ritchie. director of thr Puerto Rico Nuclear Center. Dr. StYles nhsened some of the rc,ra rch activities. especia llv at the Medicnl SeieHces and Rndinhiolof!v Division. This divi,inn j, rrimarilv concerned with trorical diseases. rartieularl\· ramsitic and viral infections. which constitute Or. Stvl<',· mnior area of re,earch and rnncentmtion. The re,earch rrof!ram at thr Center provides trainin~ opportunities in the use of nuclear ener.l!\' at the molecular. ccllnlar. and onwnism level. Indian Crisis Continued from Page lO approximately 40 percent of the food consumed in India. The rising food prices in India could result in shortages which could affect quite seriously the 240 million people in India that earn less than $4.86 per month, which is considered to be the poverty level. The Indian economy has not heen crippled energy wise as hadly as some of the more industrially oriented countries. !hi~ i~ Ulll' to the fact that India ura'Ws only ]() percent of its energy from petroleum. About half of India's energy comes coal and water power. with the rest c-oming from the use of cow dung and agricultural waste products hy the private sector of the economy. lace as a result of the energy crisis <.:mphasit.c~ the need to dt:\dup a new economic model that will utili1e more fully her vast supplies of coal and decrease the dependency on foreign oil. This new economic model will also have to solve the agricultural side of the fuel shortage as well, for it roses a higger problem politically and economically to the Indian ,!!O\ernment than does the industrial aspect. There are four proiects ~ronsored hv the A FC Division ot Riolo~ZV and Medicine. includin):! those on 'chi~to~omia,is. trvranosomiasis. fa~ciolifl~i'. and viral infections. Supportive disiciplines are provided hv the division of hiochemi'>!n. immunoloJ!V. and rndiohiologv. Dr. Stvles noted that the faci.Jities included a ti~'lle culture unit. an electromicroscore. a cohalt 60 radiation <;ource. and mouse and o;nail colonies. While in Puerto Rico. Dr. Stvles also visited the Carrihean National Forest. which comprises over 2R.OOO acres. The rain forest portion is the onlv tropical forest in the entire ll.S. National Forest Svstem. hoastin.e o\·er 240 differeNt species of trees. all native to the a ref!. Before leaving Puerto Rico. Dr. Stvles was ahle to collect manY rare tc<Jching specimens a~ he tra\L'lcd <H<ltlnd th<: island. He J', ut iii 1in.u 'orne of these ~recimcm in the p<!rasitology com~c he now teaches at {Inion. -. ·tevrs. . . Da\e's· Mens Sltop 453 State St.. (downtOW11 Scbeneecady photo credit- Leslie Steineker I o a large numher of Indian t:conomists. the prohlems they ' . tevrs· · O.•e's M• Sllap &Slate St. ·(dcawiuwa • 783 ALBANY ST. No delivery chart:e wUh two 8 cut pizzas. WE DELI¥1tll UN11L MIDNIGHT Call 374-5681 DARI- TREET Steak Dinner Special Baked Potatoe. & ('ok Slaw. Pea-, nr Corn. $2.80 \Student Discount\ (with I f) l Now you can protect. yourself against muggers, rapists and worse with this amazing new whistle. Wear it wt11~1e as a necklace or carry it as a key chain. Its long-range penetrating shrill brings help in a hurry. The next dark night (that's tonight! l you'll feel a lot safer just knowing you have the gr~atest protection in the world. Gives obscene phone callers a shrilling earful, too. GET IT BEFORE YOU HAD IT! COME IN OR MAIL HANDY COUPON Yes' I want to be saved' Send me_ London·L•ke Whrstles _Key Charn _Necklace (Number!_ Chrome __ I enclose $3.00 for each London-L1ke Whrstle. I understand that d I am not 1o1ally sa11sf•ed, I w•ll rece•ve d. complete refund d returned rn 10 clays. Family Jewels ltd. 3431 West V1llard Avonue Mrlwaukeu. Wisconsin 53209 NAME------------------------------------ STREET NUMBER--------------------·----- CITY STATE ___ zl~ ...... TOM LAUGHLIN. DELORES TAYLOR . ~-SivrioiClARK HOWAT ~., FIWIM w TEAfSA Ctii!STINA • l'rMur»>lll¥ IWIV ROSE SOI.n • lhrtcltd 111 l C. FlbUIM A NabOnll Sllldent film~ Pmductlllil • IEOIIICOI.OR\ i PO I C:....lllajt lbmor ...... - ............. ., 0 AWCUMI c-nlcallofto Compmy ONE WEEK ONLYsrarring WED. MOHAWK MAll MADISON CI!\1 F:\1A-SCHE:\ECT .\BY STAR TWIN PlAZA 1 1400 ALT-\!\10'\T \\f. ROTTERDAM

Page 12 CONCORDJENS!S, Thursday. May 2. 1974 TENNIS Union dropped Siena 8-l against a Sm4 loss to Rochester in matches last week. GOLF A 79 by sophomore Dave Papa (Albany, N.Y.) was .Union's only highlight as the Dutchmen lost their opener 417-433 at Hamilton. Lax Crush St. lawrence; . Raise Streak to four by FRANCESCO ISGRO Sweeping through three consecutive home games, the Union College Lacrosse Team is riding on a victory wave which ~eems to possess enough strength to last well past the season's end. the Garnet, .who brilliantly captured their three home games, have a four-game winning streak, and a record of 5 wins and I loss. · The present record is one of the finest in recent years for the Bruce Allison coached squad. Last year, the Garnet closed their season with a 5-7 record, and this time there is no doubt that the team will do much, much better. The team scoring has been led hy the trio composed of nos. !0, II, and 18. That is Robert Grossman,.· Dennis Walker, and John Thompson, respectively. In terms -of scoring, the trio is led .by All-American Dennis Walker. In these first six games he has tallied 21 ·times. Last year he scored 42 goals, thus with ha.lf of the season over he is holding to last year's average. Robert Grossman, a junior, is one of the most' ~onsistent players on the team. He is the backbone of the attack. He is always there behind the goal net constantly assisting both Wail·ker and Thompson. He has also found the opportunity to score 12 times, usually unassisted. No. 18, John Thompson is a freshman and he could not have found .himself in a better position, that is between Walker and Grossman. Watching him closely, THIS WEEK IN HOME SPORTS Day Sport Opponent Time Friday Golf Siena lpm Saturday JV LaCrosse Albany St. 11 am Saturday Tennis Albany St. I pm Monday Golf Hobart and l pm Tuesday Tennis Middlebury Hamilton Wednesday Baseball RPI Wednesday V LaCrosse Mark Walsh reaches for one in front of !(oaf. Bob Grossman. No. 10, and Dennis Walker, No. i I. look on. photo credit Farley Lewis Baseball Splits by FRANK BACHER Union College's up and down baseball team continued its sporadic play by splitting four games this past week. Thursday, the Garnet divided a pair of seven inning contests with Albany State, bowing in the opener 7-6 before rallying to crush the Great Danes 134 in the nightcap behind Joe Urschel. Senior Rolf Wandel paced l Jnion's offense; lashing out five base hits and driving home four runs in the twin bill. On Saturday Steve Stockman lost his bid for a no-liitter in the seventh inning and lost the game in the ninth 5-4 to Hamilton College. Hamilton rallied ·in. the last inning on a bizarre play which plated four runs, with the Dutchmen committing two errors. Gene Quirk's 3 hits and 2 RBI's, alomg with Stockman's fine Tuesdav found the Garnet facing the Yellov,:jackets from the Universitv of Rochester. Once .again. Union's ace Joey Urschel was on the mound and he proved to he too much for U. of R .. shutting them out on only eight hits. 3-0. Urschel. receiving all the support he needed via Lou Miller's two run .single in the first inning. raised his record on the vea r to 3-1. The craftv junior has a career record of 15-i. The Dutchmen stand 3-4 on the season. pending the outcome of vesterdav's game with NorWich. They play an important Capital District Conference game aj.!ainst Siena on FridaY, at Bleeker Stadium in Albany. It is a crucial game and the team would greatly appreciate as many supporters as possible. hurling effort, were the highlights . to+a.&Mt\'\'\\'\'\\ .,...,.,.,~..,.,..,.,..,..,..,...,...,..,..,..,..,..,,.,...,,. .,...,...,..,..,..,. Need an off-campus apartment? A female ex-student .needs one roommate. female or male (graduate students preferred) to share a spacious. attractive two-bedroom apartment completely_ furnished. nice front porch. friendly landlord, and off-street parkmg. Cheap - $20 per week. See Mrs. Baxter in Student Activities Office or cali Rosemary at 372-4611. one cannot help but to notice his constant improvement. Against RPI he led the .team with three goah and one assist. Against St. I .awrence he tallied twice. F\ or those fans who will still be ar.ound !Inion for the next 2 or three years No. 18 will be the man to 1\-.atch. When one ta.lks about l.acrosse, the players up front are the most mentioned ones because they do most of the scoring. But it \-OUld be a sin to overlook the defense, and a greater orie to overlook the middies, that is the connecting >link between offense and defense. One of Uni<;>.n's best assets is in having two fine goalies: AI Ritchie and Steve Haddad. No one would deny that it is they who sometimes save the team from defeat. Ritchie playe<l a h rilliant first half against St. Lawrence making 10 saves in the important first half. Haddad, a freshman, has .also seen some action and against Middleburyhe 1nade some key saves. The defensive line is led by junior Mike Garone along with Dave Hochschartner and Willy Garofalo. Against St. Lawrence the defense allowed the Larries to take only 20 shots, five of which turned into goals. The middies have tn uch improved in terms of cooperating with both defense and offense. They also have provided valuable goals. Against the Engineers, m idfielders Charlie Howe and :lim Thompson provided the two pivotal goals. Sophomore Don Ward played a brilliant l'he middies have ltl uch improved in terms ofcoopera ting with both defense and offense. !'hey also have provided valuable goals. Against the Engineers, midfielders Charlie Howe and Jim Thompson provided the two pivotal goals. Sophomore Don Ward played a brilliant game again~! Middlebury in front of the higgest throng of spectators which included the parents last Saturday. Other Midfielders who have seen a lot of action are Mark Walsh, Jerry Dwyer and Bob (irabo. lhe Garnets have two home l!ames left. On May 8 they host C'olgate and on the 15th they host Wesleyan. There is no need to remind you to get out of your cocoon and fly to Daley Field when these last two home garnes of the season will he played. Albany nips ·Garnet, 7 3-7 2 by ALISON SL()A T Ricks and BiU Thompson, obviously hindered by the After four years of waiting. the Inclement weather, took first and day finally arrived when the two second in the pole vault, each Capital District powerhouses of dearing II'. (rack and field met, and a Later Ricks and Jeff Broomes blustery day it was! Winds ripped mntinued their dominance of the up and down the track, while a yuarter mile as Broomes' 5 L9 and fine mist of drizzle accompanied a Ricks' 52.0 times registered first mid-30 degree chill. Despite the and second for the Dutchmen. negative cntributions of Mother After winning the 880 yd. run :\;ature the final score revealed !20 L8), co-captaih Ma.rk Mindel iust how evenly matched the two .teamed up with Broomes, Ricks .teams were- Albany 73, Union and Scheuer for the win in the. 72. mile relay, their 3:28.7 nearly lhe win was up for grabs by unchallenged by Albany's 3:34.6. either team until t.he running of Steve Jones, having run a the three mile where the Great ~uperb 4:24 mile for second to an Danes picked up nine points for Albany 4:22.5, later was robbed the sweep, led by Cherubino's of scoring position in the 880 on a 14:39.4. judgement call. Milt Herring's determination Bill Mowery, with a 50'8\ put, \\as unaffec·ted by the dampne~s rested second as he was upstaged as the super soph sped to wms In hy Rudy Vido's 52' J,I .y,; toss of the hoth the 220 and the 10_0 _rard ~hot. Later Mowery returned to dashes (22. 7 & 10.0. Stmtlarly , pick up third in the discus, freshmen Mark Scheuer. and <127'6!1:!). In the remammg Dave Plumer rema1ned throwing event, freshman Rich u.n~efeated. at the _Iatt:r cleared :'-iorman chucked the javelin ~ Q to wm the h:tgh Jump a_nd 154'11'' for third place. ~cheuer hurdled. h1s way to wms Despite the foul weather John ~n the l~O yd. htghs and 440 _yd. De Stefano got off his best leap 'of mtermedtates (15.9 & 56.6) Dtck the season to date, with a Kern a~d Da~e Ricks each pic~ed winning 21','4\ winning distance, up ~h1rds In the respective while Roger MDonaJd claimed llurdlmg events. second with _20'8*\· No. II Dennis Walker- _nips one in b~fore sun-bathed crowd last week. \ photo credit Bill Erichson Fr ·Of Li PI ---- Vo - g< p ~~ a1 E p B H w CI Jc (') s tc h g L B S1 ( s: B ( t-1 It H v g e a r [

Carnival Weekend F!ic$! .Friday, May 10 \The Bride .of Frankenstein\ and \The Little Ras~a!s\ at . LibrarY · Plaza, tO p.m. · Saturday, May 11, the band, .. Skye\ with balloons,. watemelon, beer thanks to the IFC, Library. Field~ 2-5 p.m. uBoredom is the root o.fall evil.\- Soren Kierkegaar~1. Vol. 103, No. zo- Thursday, May 9, 1974 35 cents Taylor, Broomes W1n Top Spots in Student Government . .~.:-~. __ , by BlLLTAUS Elections for many college government positions, including. President and Vice-President of the Steering Committee, Trustee and others, took place Tuesday. Emerging vic:::to_rious in the presidential nice was Jeff Broomes; who defeated Dale H eilberg. The presidential race was marked bv a Constitutional crisis concemitig the candidacy of Jerry Garcia, famous rock singer of \The Grateful Dead.'' The Steering CQmmittee ha9 refused to place G~trcia's ·name on t-he hallot, basing its dedsion on the grounds that Garcia was not a Union College student. Marty Berman, one · of Garcia's staunchest - hackers, termed Garcia's support \a protest to the system of student governance.\ Berman accused the SteerinJ! Committee of denying students the right to challenge the legitimacy of student government. When the final votes were tallied, Garcia's totals, aU write~in votes, prevented Broomes from gaining the necessary majority to ensure election. The vote totals were: Broomes 324 Garcia 285 Heilberg 279 In a Wednesd;:ty morning statement of clarification, Elections Commissioner .Harry l.essin invalidated the Garcia votes stating, \In order for a candidacy for any elective office to he deemed legitimate, the candidate for said office must be a member of the Union College s to dent body.\ Trustee Runoff In the preliminary election for J~(fry Broomes - runnin~ for office and winnin~ in a clean sweep. Student Representative to the Hoard of Trustees, Geoff Taylor came out first in a field of eleven. Resutts 9f tbe preliiJ1inary election were: Geoff Taylor Judy Dein Hank Bernstein Nick Coward .I oel Buck;berg * * * * 186 148 115 87 86 Cabaret Opens by BlLt VALLEE clan)ring pin-hall machines and At long last a new hreed of simplv loud music: instead mood entertainment anima·! is heing and hack!!round music will create raised here at llnion. lt is the Art a low-kev air designed for Department's Caharet (kab-e- conversation and relaxation. ray'--!. A restaurant providing There are unlimited short programs of live oppor.tunities. in this en-tertainment). which will idea- ..,tand-up. · comedians. celebrate its opening night. improvising groups making skits Thursdav. Mav l6, from 9-2 from audience ·requests: in short. a.m .. wl)ich will remain its Usual anvthing is pollsible-but the night and hours. On openiAg ohvious need is for participation night there will be free beer. soft hv this Clilmmunitv. In Cabaret drinks, and refreshments · · · the attraction the new Student (peanuts. pret7~ls. chee7e. etc.) in ('enter needs to become trulv. the Union Caba.ret. located in Carnegie. the Student Center. Room 101. This idea of a cabaret is the Continued ~n Page l l Craig Jeffries Jim Bacharach Bob Gerber rom R.ichardon Hunt Eggleston Runoff 74 63 58 56 Jl The top five candidates in Tuesday's preliminary entered the . wnoff on Wednesday, with Geoff Taylor being elected. The vote totals were: Taylor 197, Bernstein 143, Dein 128, Coward 107 and !Juckberg 84. ·rhe Vice Presidential race saw Brian Tucker and Chris ·O'Connor squaring off in the final election, with Howie Lax being eliminated in the preliminary race. The totals for Tuesday's balloting were: Brian Tucker Chris O'Connor Howie Lax Runoff 344 249 176 Wednesday, Tucker garnered 301 votes to O'Connor's 251, thus making Tucker Vice-President of the Steering Committee for next year. College Senate tn other races, Howard Geo{fTarlor- the new trustee . . . - Mastroianni defeated Blair Reischer, 144-44, for the position as Division One RepFesentative to the All College Senate. In Division Two, .Jon Levin defeated Joe Silver 131-92. In Division rhree, no candidate gained a majority in the three man race which saw Glenn Wolfson and Mark Rosenthal qualify for the Senate position runoff. The vote in this Division was Wolfson 110, Mark Rosenthal 85, Lou Anne Beauregard 47. In Division Four, Robin Waring captured 60% of the vote in a three-man-race with 127 votes, defeating Mark Scheuer, who garnered 53 votes, and John Fildes who received 22. The new Repl;esentative-at-Large to the College Senate is William Henson, who defeated Rita Anne Gaworecki by a vote of 420-201. In the All-College Senate Division Three runoff Wolfson defeated Rosenthal by a vote of 98-82. H i II U n de r h i II, r u n n i n g unopposed Jorsecretary, garnered 406 votes. In the election .for the two Class of '77 representatives to the Steering Committee, Allison Brickley and Les Trachtman were elected; defeating Deborah Malumed and Ilisa Baron. The votes were Brick ley 139; Trachtman 113; Malumed 92; and Haron 81. For the class of '76 deetions, Lee Rimsky was elected outright, while Jim Kane and AI (inessin ran-off in the final election for the other Steering Committee position. The vote in the prelim was Rimsky 2l6; Kane 94; and Gnessin 76. In the final election Kane defeated. Gnessin by a vote of 114-77. New Program of Study Special to Concordiensis An interdepartmental program in Comparative Literature, under the direction of Associate Professor Hans Freund, has recently been instituted into the College curriculum. The purpose of this program is, according to Freund, ' 1 to offer a broad yet thematically structured liberal arts education, with emphas.!s on the comparative study of literature written m three Ia nguages.\ The languages may be chosen from the Departments of Classics, English, and Modern Languages. One must be studied in the original, the other two may be in the original or in translation. This program has a tight central core, yet a broad enough circumference to give the student freedom in choosing his own direction of study. According to Professor Freund, the program is a \good opportunity for a student to shape his own program with a structure behind it.\ The core of the department consists of: an· introduction to comparative literature through the study of its his tor:, and forms, and three courses in comparative Hans Freund: Comparative Literature hope of a few active people. all desiring an alternative to the. Skeller and the Coffeehouse. As all the people connected at present with the ·cabaret insist. this nightclub can only become strong and inviti.ng if it. is suppor1ed by the students. Auditions will he held each week for the new and different types of entertainment which will provide that Hemitl(!Way cafe atmosphere. that is the ('a baret's goal. Nott Scholars Feast literature through time periods, which are presently being offered as Comprehensive Education courses: CED 42: Humanities: The shall, in consultation with the program director, choose his courses in such a way that they constitute a connected program focused on a specific topic, such as a literary genre or the literature of a· historical period.\ By comparing and contrasting different literatures under a specific direction, the student can achieve a much broader specialization of a genre or period. Through close work with an advisor appropriate to his field of concentration, the student will have a great deal of freedom, coupled with direction and guidance. Not found here are the CONCORDY ELECTIONS Elections for editors of f'oncordiensis\ for Fall, '74- Winter, '75 will be held on Thursday, May 23, from 7:30 p.m. until 10:00 p.m. Those interested in running for ·editor-in-chief must submit their names to Concordy Editors Judy Dein, Bill talis, or leave a nQte in Student Activities by Thursday, May 16. Special to Concordiensis John Mesick, author of the Historical Structures Report on the Nott Memorial, addressed this year's Nott Scholars in Hale House last night. The dinner for the eighty students who had achieved an index of 3.67 or better during the preceding school year was hosted by President Martin. Other administration members 1md several members of the Schenectady City Council and of the urban development board ·FOCUS (which works with the City Council), as well as Schenectady's Mayor Duci, were in attendan.,:e. Martin welcomed the Scholars, following a reception in Hale House Lounge, to the dinner. He described a Nott Scholar as a student whose cume had bee.n \so close to A you could smell it.'' After _the meal, the President, remarking on the \relevance for Schenectady\ of urban planning, introduced Mr. Mesick as one who faces the problem of renewal in a city as old as is Schenectady with a view to its historic past. Mesick delivered a talk, closely accompanied by slides, on the adaptation of old structures to new uses as an esthetic means of urban renewal. He presented examples from cities across the country, and notably frotn Amsterdam, Holland. Mesick graduated from Pratt Institute, and then spent a year on a Fulbright Fellowship in Copenhagen. He later worked with famed architect Eero SaaJ;inen. Mesick is presently a partner in an Albany architectural firm. A copy of his report on the Nott Memorial may be found in Schaffer Library. Origins CED 43: Humanities: Middle Ages and Renaissance CEO 44: Humanities: Baroque, Enlightenment, and Romanticism Next year, these courses will have more of a focus on literature than on art and architecture. Courses in Comparative Literature already in existence at Union, such as genre courses and literature of languages other than English, will also be credited toward completion of the major requirement. Seminars in special topics will be instituted when need is felt for a course not presently offered at Union in the field of Comparative Literature. Two terms of these seminars, .or independent study, will be required as preparation for the final requirement of a thesis or a major field examination. As the catalog will direct, \the student The program .will also be of special interest to drama majors, as it can add an intellectual background to a basically studio- oriented program through the study of forms and trends in different periods and traditions. If you are interested in the program and would like further information, contact the program director, Professor Freund.

• Page2 CONCORDlENS!S, Thursday, May 9, 1974 ~~ You Sa.id It!· Panel <!tntttnr C2l ~ .. ;mmta ~ltJ}· Editors, Concordiensis: It is now time for the students, faculty, and administration of this college to decide upon a very important issue-one which may change a Vnit:m College rule-of- thumb that has existed since its lou nd ation. ' ' ' f . .. J d D ' 'B'll T 1' Edttors-m-chte ................ ::.: .. u v etn, . 1 . a 1s News 'Editor ....... _., ....................... : ...... Geof(Taylor Culture Editor ...... ; ................. , ............. Pete Sobol Sports. Editor.' ..................... ~ ...... , ....... Bart Hercer Provost Enteman has maqe a proposal to the College Senate which concerns whether or not classes shaH be he'ld on Yom Kippur, Thursday, Septembet 26, 1974. This would be the second dl\Y of classes for the next academic year. The calendar plans for next year call for fifty- one class days, instead of the normally secheduled fifty class Photo Editors .............................. Leslie St~ineker. · · ' Cliff Lanpweiler Copy Editor ........................................ PhU Alabes · Foreip:n Corespondent ........ ; ........ Rob MotJdschein Blitherinp: Editor ........................... Chris O\Connor Business Editor ................................. Alan (Jnessi-i1 National Advertisinf! .... · ...................... Steve Kelley Subscriptions Editor- ........... ~ .................. Lisa-Tietz days (ten weeks of classes), so CmeordieDih is published every Thursday by the student body Yom Kippur could easily be a day ofUnion Collel!e. Old Gym Hall. ScheQectady. N.V.:.'Pttblications of no classes without losing a Office. The Jewish World Publications. 771 State St.. Schenectady. scheduled day. Th~ Department N.Y. 12307 (346-2356). Entered in the Schenectadv.Post Office as Chairmen, however, have Second Class Matter. Sut;scription Rat~ 3S cents Per· cGpy. 58.00 a unanimously resolved that classes year d~fivered anywhere in the United $tates. Deadline for copy is. shall be held on Yom Kippur. r-....,f/~ c ti on Ref I eCfi ~~~~~~··:!r.~':;'f.~ The 1974 Union College elections have come and gone. Candidates woii and lost. This election will not be forgotten, at least by the editors of this newspaper, or at feast not very soon. Lessons were learned by all involved in this election; the main one being that if the system is not planned and thought out well in advance, mistakes are made, inequities result, and people are hurt. Inequities did result in the ejection, and those which are most striking arose in the presidential race. In the presidential race, a group of students put forth for the Presidency the name of \Jerry Garcia.\ Petitions were filled out and filed. The Steering Committee decided one day before the election that no candidate would be allowed on the ballot who is not a student. This was the first mistake made. The validity of the Steering Committee's ruling to remove Garcia from the ballot is. dubious. Garcia has receiv~d votes for the presidency in previous years, indicating that the problem faced by the Steering Committee did not suddenly arise. The arbitrary manner with which the Steering Committee, only one day before the election crossed Garcia off the ballot was wrong, for it turned the contest into one of \fairness.\ Garcia entered the race one week ago as a joke, and, thanks to the Steering'Committee, was turned into a martyr. The second mistake soon followed. A write-in campaign for Garcia was hastily formed. The Garcia candidacy received· 285 votes, but unknown to those who voted, all write-in votes for a non-student are invalid. The day after the election, the Elections Committee decided to inform the student body of this fact. The people who voted for Garcia had a higher purpose (at least some make this claim), which was to show that elections - were popularity contests not concerned with issues. These people were not informed that their votes were of · no importance, and if they did know, they might have decided to vote for one of the two viable candidates in the election. The manner m which the election was conducted was shoddy. The Election Committee consists of five members, appointed by the Committee on Committees at the end of last year. In order to run an election, five people are not enough. What o<:curs? People are asked by the Committee to help oQt, peo pie with \experience.\ If the Committee realized that they could not operate an election with five people, it is not right for them to ask others to help out a 1\;eek or two before the elctions, as is now the method. Several weeks before candidates start !o run, aU people who are to be counting votes should be chosen and approved by the Steering Committee. In this manner, we lose ,lfle aura that certain people chosen during the campaign will ••help\ a certain candidate. The best way to resolve this difficulty is to expand !he Elections Committee. But, not many people have applied to the Elections Committee, and therefore expansion IS difficult to accomplish. The fina] lesson learned by the editors of Concordy is that the counting of ballots cannot be done in such a secretive manner. As it is now done, members of the Election Committee go to Student Activities, lock themselves in, and several tension filled hours bter, the ominous phone calls are made to the candidates. What is done in other schools is that a tally board is kept that every half hour gives more complete tabulation of the results. The final tally is posted and the '-Vinners are known to all. There is not a sudden shock of the phone cal1, but a candi~ate can gradually resolve himself as to v.~hether he won or lost. Those who scream for new elections, be careful. For there are people who are closely involved in the elections and though you may think it a joke, others do not. Be considerate, and recognize the time and effort that those people have devoted. the editors Garcia Farcia Jerry Garcia is a member of the rock group \The Grateful Dead.\ He.·is nota student at Union College. Someone decided to run Jerry Garcia as a candidate for the Presidency of the Steering Committee. Obviously the trend caught on since over 280 students voted for Garcia in Tuesday's election. It was stated in Concordy that \Garcia symbolizes a protest against the students who have masqueraded in the past few years as representatives of the student body.\ Supposedly, electing Jerry Garcia would mean putting a group of ten students in the president's position. Problem 1: s·ince the students mentioned in the article were no.t informed that they were to represent Garcia, what then would electing Garcia really mean? Problem 2: Students signed a petition with Garcia's name listed as the candidate, who were they really supporting, Garcia or the group of ten? Another claim of the anonymous writer t<l Coneordy was that \When Garcia is elected he will grace our campus with a c<Jncert during his Eastern swing next fall.\ We\ d like to see this promise from The , Grateful Dead: otherwise, such blatantly false campaign promises must be c<Jndemned. The author of the letter in Concordy claims that \Garcia's candidacy does not symbolize prot est against student government,\ but rather, a protest directed solely against those elected representatives currently in office. tJ nfortunately, by making such a mess of Garcia:s (or is it the ten students who did not even support their own candidacy) election campaign, we feel that the writer of the Jetter defeated his own purpose. Student government and elections did come out looking like a joke. the editors .... - . - in principle, a good one. Union was· founded as a totally non- denominational institution and the calendar should remain as secular as possible. However, Union has never held classes on either ,Christmas or Easter, not only because they are religious holidays, but a·lso because they come at a time which is convenient not to hold classes. Next year Yom Kippur will com·e at such a convenient time. But, unless the Callege Senate acts, the Department Ct)airrnen's resolution w.ill stand. This will inflict, especially upon incoming freshmen, a dilemma of having to choose . between rel.igi.ous attendance and the second class of the new academic year. This painful decision should not have to he made. I urge everyone who is affected by this decision,. which in effect means t·he majority of the Student Body, to discuss your opinions with your new ${}nate Representatives. The issue will be discussecl at their first Senate meeting, Tuesday, May 14. Cynthia Young '75 Editors, Concordiensis: \ . I weuld like to . take this opportunity to express my sincere appreciation to all . those who voted for me in the,.election this past Tuesday and the subsequent runoff held on Wednesday. I would also Wish to express my congratulations and very best wishes to Brian Tucker-. l honestly feel that student government can respond to the severe criticisms that have been directed against it in recent days. To this end, l again wish the best of luck to Brian Tucker, as well as all the newly elected officers, and ask that students take a more active role in insuring that the governance system does indeed respond to student desires. Sincerely, Christopher P. O'Connor Presid.ertt Bonner ~y STEVE StOCKMAN A .panel discussion, sponsored by eight Union fraternities, will be held Thursday,' May 16th at 7:30 p.m. in Alumni dym, open to the general public. The discussion is intended to bring to light both the ex·isting problems and the positive attributes of this college, The panel will consist ·of two administrators (P.rovost Enteman and Dean Smith~, two faculty mern.bers (Prof.· Potts and Prof. Craig), three students (Bruce 'Sostek, Laura Shakrin, Tom Watts:), and a member of the Board of Trustees. Each person wiH have up to five minutes to speak ort whatever aspect of Union College he or she chooses. The panel presentation will be f () !low e d b y a u d i e n c e participation. This forum will be a type of \town meet.ing\ in which the concerned members of our College community can \get out in the open\ the problems that have been on their minds. The unique feature ofthe discussion is that as in a staff or committee meeting, the views that are expressed there will not be confined to the members of that grol)p. Vote for Menke by PETE SOBOL Mv fellow moles. it is- with a heavv heart and malice aforethought. that I announce the candidacv of mv dear friend. Edouard Pharphle Menke. for the office of Steering Committee President. Mr. Menke's credentials are of the hip;hest order. His high school career has given him a solid backing in the machinations of .student government. His tactic of posting campaign messages over all the stop sitms in his neighborhood will not soon be forgotton. Nor will his first act in office. which was to pass a law making it illegal to jump head first out a second-storv winddw, and land on school property. Here at Onion Coflege. Menke was one of the first to suggest the stuccoing of St . .John's,.and one of the last to find out tl'lat St. John's is not on the campus at all. ·He fought bravely against allowing cars to drive on the campus sidewalks. and ran ·bravely after dousing a night- time sidewalk-driver with fluerescent orange paint only to find out .that it was a SecuritY car. He stood firm for the right of organic chemistrY students to ·write a thesis. but sat down gracefully when his door wa~ mvsteriouslv blown off one night. He has promised to fix the flicker in the library ·lights which occurs each night at 10:45, and he has promised that the Chapel hells will be repaired so· as to play \Three Blind Mice\ correctl;v. In snort. he has shown himself to be. in the final analysis, the perfect man for the job. A man whom. no matter how simple the problem. will alwavs. find .a complex solution. A man who. caught in the \fell clutch of circumstance,;• will remember what he has left on the stove. A man who. finding himself amidst the \pass and fell incensed points of mightv opposites.\ will call a cab. He will be a man whose exploits wiH he the Skeller's scandal and the libratv•s latest. He will be what. althoug-h we mav not need. we certainly want: an entertainer: a distraction from the mundane cares of the day. Vote Menke. the next tirne vou get a chance. SiK Chi clammer caters to cutups. photo by Chris Nadherney

CON COR DIENSTS, Thursday, May 9, 1974 You Said It! ·Panel Editors~in-chief.. .................... Judv Dein. Bill Talis News Editor ................................ : ..... Geoff Taylor Culture Editor ...................................... Pete Sobol Sports Editor ....................................... Bart Mercer Photo Editors .............................. Leslie Steineker, · . · Cliff Lantzweiler C'opy Editor ....................................... PhH Alcabes F oreip;n Corespondent ................ Rob M ondschein Blitherinp; Editor ........................... Chris O'Connor Business Editor ................................. Alan Gnessin National AdvertisinJ! .......................... Steve Kelley Subscriptions Editor- .............................. Lisa.Ttetz Editors, Concordiensis: It is now time for the students, faculty, and administration of this college to decide upon a very important issue-one which may change a Union College rule-of- thur:nb that has existed since its foundation. Provost Enteman has made a proposal to the College Senate which concerns whether or not classes shaH be held on Yom Kippur, Thursday, September 26, 1974. This would be the second day of classes for the next academic year. The calendar plans for next year caH for fifty- one class days, instead of the normally secheduled fifty class days (ten weeks of classes), so Concordleasis is published every Thursday by the student body Yom Kippur col'lld easily be a day of Union Colle,!!e. Old Gym Hall. Schenectady. N.Y.; Publications of no classes without losing a Office. The Jewish World Publications. 771 State St.. Schenectady, scheduled day. The Department N.Y. 12307 (346-2356). Entered in the Schenectadv Post Office as Chairmen, however, have Second Class Matter. Subscription Rate 35 cents per copy. $8.00 a unanimously resolved that classes year d~tivered anywhefe in the United States. Deadline for copy is shall be held on Yom Kippur. T\'\''E ~~ c t; 0 n Ref I e C'ti ~~-;:~~;n~~~~~~;; 7 ;, The 1974 Union College elections have come and gone. Candidates won and lost. This election will not be forgotten, at least by the editors of this newspaper, or at feast not very soon. Lessons were learned by all involved in this election; the main one being that if the system is not planned and thought out well in advance, mistakes are made, inequities result, and people are hurt. Inequities did result in the election, and those which are most striking arose in the presidential race. In the presidential race, a group of students put forth for the Presidency the name of \Jerry Garcia.\ Petitions were filled out and filed. The Steering Committee decided one day before the election that no candidate would be allowed on the ballot who is not a student. This was the first mistake made. The validity of the Steering Committee's ruling to remove Garcia from the ballot is. dubious. Garcia has received votes for the presidency in previous years, indicating that the problem faced by the Steering Committee did not suddenly arise. The arbitrary manner with which the Steering Committee, only one day before the election crossed Garcia off the ballot was wrong, for it turned the contest into one of \fairness.\ Garcia entered the race one week ago· as a joke, and, thanks to the Steering Committee, was turned into a martyr. The second mistake soon followed. A write-in campaign for Garcia was hastily formed. The Garcia candidacy received 285 votes, but unknown to those who voted, all write-in votes for a non-student are invalid. The day after the election, the Elections Committee decided to inform the student body of this fact. The people who voted for Garcia had a higher purpose (at least some make this claim). which was to show that elections · were popularity contests not concerned with issues. These people were not informed that their votes were of no importance, and if they did know, they might have decided to vote for one of the two viable candidates in the election. The manner 1n which the election was conducted was shoddy. The Election Committee consists of five members, appointed by the Committee on Committees at the end of last year. In order to run an election, five people are not enough. What occurs? People are asked by the Committee to help out, people with \experience.\ If the Committee realized that they could not operate an election with five people, it is not right for them to ask others to help out a week or two before the elctions, as is now the method. Several weeks before candidates start to run, all people who are to be counting votes should be chosen and approved by the Steering Committee. In this manner, we lose the aura that certain people chosen during the campaign will \help\ a certain candidate. The best way to resolve this difficulty is to expand the Elections Committee. But, not many people have applied to the Elections Committee, and therefore expansion is difficult to accomplish. The final lesson learned by the editors of Concordy is that the counting of ballots cannot be done in such a secretive manner. As it is now done, members of the Election Committee go to Student Activities, lock themselves in, and several tension filled hours later, the ominous phone calls are made to the candidates. What is done in other schools is that a tally board is kept that every half hour gives more complete tabulation of the results. The final tally is posted and the winners are known to all. There is not a sudden shock of the phone call, but a candidate can gradually resolve himself as to whether he won or lost. Those who scream for new elections, be careful. For there are people who are closely involved in the elections and though you may think it a joke, others do not. Be considerate, and recognize the time and effort that those people have devoted. the editors Garcia Farcia Jerry Garcia is a member of the rock group \The Grateful Dead.\ He.is not a student at Union College. Someone decided to run Jerry Garcia as a candidate for the Presidency of the Steering Committee. Obviously the trend caught on since over 280 students voted for (iarcia in Tucsdav's election. It was stated in Concordy that \Garcia ~.vmboli;cs a protest against the students who have masljUeraded in the pa~t fcv.. years as rcprescntati\cs of the student body.\ Supposedly, electing Jerry Garcia would mean putting a group of ten students in the president\ position. Problem I: Since the ~tudents mentioned in the article were not informed that they were to represent Garcia, what then would electing Garcia really mean? Problem 2: Students signed a petition with Garcia's name listed as the candidate, who were they really supporting, Garcia or the group of ten? Another claim of the anonymous writer to Concordy was that \When Garcia is elected he wiii grace our campus with a concert during his Eastern swing next fall.\ We'd like to see this promise from The Grateful Dead: otherwise. such blatantly false campai12n promises must be condemned. I he author of the letter in foncordy t:laims that \CJarcia\ candidacy doc~ not symbolize rrotest against student government,\ but rather. a protest directed solely against those elected represcn tatives currently in office. linfortunately, by making such a mess of Ciarcia's (or is it the ten students who did not even support their own candidacy) election campaign, we feel that the writer of the letter defeated his own purpose. Student government and elections did come out looking like a joke. the editors in principle, a good one. IJ nio11 was founded as a totaHy non- denominational institution and the calendar should remain a5 secMiar as possible. However, lJ nion has never held classes on either Christmas or Easter,. not only because they are reJ.ig:ious holidays, but also because they come at a time which is convenient not to hold classes. ~ext year Yom Kippur will come at such a convenient time. Hut, unless the Colilege Senate acts, the Department Chairmen,'s resolution will stand. This w.ill inflict, especially upom incoming freshmen, a dilemma of having to choose between religiou.s attendance and the second class of the new acac:lemic yeac lhis painful decision should not have to be made. I Nrge everyone who is affected by this decision, which in effect means the majo6ty of the Student Body, to discuss your opinions w i t 11 y o u r n e w S e na. te Representatives. The issue will be discussed at their first Senate meeting, Tuesday, May 14. Cynthia Young •75 Editors, Concordiensis: I would like to take this opportunity to express my sincere appreciation to all those who voted for me in the.election this past Tuesday and the subsequent runoff held on Wednesday. I would also wish to express my congratulations and very best wishes to Brian Tucker. I honestly feel that student government can respond to the severe criticisms that have been directed against it in recent days. To this end, I again wish the best of luck to Brian Tucker, as well as all the newly elected officers. and ask that students take a more active wle in insuring that tfte governance system does indeed 1·espond to student desires. Sincerely, Christopher P. O'Connr.r President Bonner by STEVE STOCKMAN A panel discussion, sponsored by eight Union fraternities, will be held Thursday, May 16th at 7:30 p.m. in Alumni Gym, open to the general public. Tl1e discussion is intended to bring to light both the ex-isting problems and the positive attributes of this college. ·rhe panel will consist of two administrators (Provost Enteman and Dean Smith), two faculty members (Prof. Potts and Prof. Craig), three stNdents (Bruce 'Sostek, !.aura Shakrin, Tom Watts), and a member of the Board of Trustees. Each person wiH have up to five minutes to 'peak on whatever aspect of lJnion College he or she chooses. rhe panel presentation wiU be followed by audience rarticipation. l'his forum will be a type of \town meeting\ in which the concerned members of our College community can \get out in the open\ the problems that have been on their minds. The unique feature ofthe discussion is that as in a staff or committee meeting, the views that are ex pressed there will not be m nfined to the members of that group. Vote for Menke by PETE SOBOL MY fellow moles. it is with a heaV\' heart and malice aforethought. that I announce the cnndidacv of m\· dear friend. Edouard Pharphle Menke. for the office of Steerinl! C'omm ittee President. Mr. Menke's credentials are ()f the hi)!hest order. His high school career has _given him a solid hnckinp: in the machinations of student .!!0\ernment. His tactic of posting campaign messages over all the stop o;if.!m in his neighborhood will not soon be forgotton. Nor will his first a~t in office . .;.hich was to pass a law making it illegal to jump head firo;t out <1 o;econd-storv window. and land on school property. Here at { fnion College. Menke was one of the first to suggest the o;tuccoinf.! of St. .John's. and oneofthe last to find out that St. John's i\ not o~ the camrus at all. He fought t>ravely against allowing cars to driw on the campus sidewalks. and ran bravelv after dousing a night- time sidewalk-driver with nuorescent orange paint only to find out that it was a Sec uri tv car. He stood firm for the right of organic chemistrv students to write a thesis. hut sat down gracefully when his door was mvsteriouslv blown off one night. He has promised to fix the flicker in the lihrarv .lights which occurs each night at 10:45, and he has promised that the Chapel hel!s will he repaired so as to play \Three Rlind Mict>\' correctlv. In short. he has shown hi~self to he-. in the final analysis, the perfect man for the ioh. A man whom. rio rnatter how simple the problem. will alw<Jvs find a complex solution. A man who. caul!ht in the \fell clutch of circumstance .. \ will remember what he has left on the sto\'e. A man who. finding himself amidst the \pass and fell incensed points of mi.f.!htv orrosites,\ will call a ca h. He will he a man whose exploits will be the Skeller's scandal and the lihrarv's latest. He will t>e what. <Jith0tlf!h we mav not need. we certainlv war:~t: an entertainer: a diqra~tion from the mundane cares of the d·av. Vote Menke. the next time vou·rreta cha·nce. SiR Chi rlammer rarer.~ to cutups. photo by Chris N adherney I , I ~~ '\ I d ' I li I

!'i') ;' -~:~.~ ~ Q... ~ '1'-... •o. ~- :o.:- ~- .;;.. ~~­ -~ t: ~-;::; .t: •....; \'- ' . A Hard Day's Night or How to Survive Midterms and an Election - . - . - Photos· by Bill Erichson • Ra~~edv Ann courtesr of Frat . . . '!\\\~ :_ ,n i~i§!( J !p JJill!l!l'lfJ!!!J,IOt ·!e\\\\\'1 \'!J!l!Mi@'>'c;:c \\\'\''\\'· ..__•_ .., ........_. ~ ~ ~ ~ ~2':- ~- ~ 9 q n~ 9-! ~ ~ o o ~ .. :. Q) IU tt-t ~ .. 1- .., .., .. ~ ....... --

\'\1 & ·~ t-._ . 0. ·- ~ ~ - ~ \' ;:: ·~ ~ .... .lj .... ):) ~ ~ .... ~ ::t::: ~ ..., ~ ~ :....; A Hard Day's Night or How to Survive Midterms and an Election Photos by Bill Erichson w ---~ ~-~~~___,~ ....... --:.--~-~----~--~-:~-:~=.,.-~:=----:-:~--~--\-.;-.--.~-~. 1 ~-·•·o··-,\f'C' r .::':~ ~:: •, df . k\ --~4- ~ ~ ~ ~ .~ ~ ~ 0 C :>-.r......:: a; ~ QJ ~ n ~ • 1'1\ 111 t........ ••• Ra~~edr Ann cnurresr a( Frat :~:~ ....... ··-·-,.-··- -~-=·-~--~-n;~----=-::::::;~--- ~ -~-- - - \ __;---:--· -;; ~ ·:.:-::=.:~.~ ~ . _.;.::.. \ ~~- a·~- .:=_ --- ....,., -!!lC::.:...~

1, jl' . ' Ground Rules ELECTION COMMITTEE-· PROCEDU~ES SPRING TERM 1974 The purpose of this statement is j:o pro'(id~ the. cpl.Jege community with the following information pertainrng' to 1he Tuesdav elections: ~. · ISSUE ONE: The Prese.i~ of not;~eleetio~ coniruittee me.;; her; :in the balloting procedure. Committee chairmen have the authority to seek assistance from nonmembers for special projects as they· deem necessary. There is ample precedent for this. In past years the Electio11 Committee has emploved the services of many non-members in counting ballots; witness the use hv the Social Committee of ushers, ticket takers, ticket sellers... etc. A minimum of six non-members of .the Election Committee were employed to man the polls in this term's election and in those of the past two terms. OJ!_ inion: Jerry Was. Robbed by MA-RTY BE.I,{.MAN,- · ~fhis .ye.ir•s election· was ·a farce. It was a farce like every other year: the election was publicized piss-poorly, there was insufficient time for the electoral precess; which forced yet anoth~r · popular-ity contest. The Steeriqg Committee played God and disregarded the wishes of their In choosing the nonmembers involved, past experience in dealing with the electoral process was ·the primary criterion. Those who. assisted us this term have such experience in the past two terms. ISSUE TWO: Legitimacy of write-in Votes: constituency, a candidate was kept offthe ballot and his write-in hallots were not counted in the . total, and finally, approximately • A petition with. more than 200 signatures supporting the candidacy of Jerrv Garcia was submitted to the Elections Committee. On Monday. May 6 the Steering Committee, through its constitutional obliJ!ation to oversee student committees, decided to act on the Garcia petit.iofl and its inclusion on the Tuesday ballot. The Steering Committee met at 4:'30 p.m. in Fox House Lounge on M ondav. Mav 6. and decided unanimously not to include Garcia's name on the ballot. This action was based on the Steering Committee's interpretatitm that the Constitution's dictates that anv candidate for elective student office must he a member of the Union student bodv. The Election Committee in meeting Monday evening decided unanimously to invalidate anv ballot cast for anv write-in· candidates who was not a member of the ·union student body: This decision was based upon two factors: One: The directive of the Steering Committee mandated that in order for a candidacv for anv elective office to be deemed legitimate,· the candidate for said office ·must be a member of the Union College student hodv. Two: For the past three years. it has been the expressed policy and practice of all Election Committees to invalidate all votes cast as Write- ins for non-ll nion College students. Last vear Jerrv Garcia's votes were tabulated and following the practice outlined above were invalidated. We saw no reason to change t.his policv this vear. Thank you. Harry Lessin, Elections Commissioner Little Big Man MOVIE OF THE WEEK LITTLE BIG MAN Sole survivor of Custer's last stand at Little Big Horn, adopted Indian brave complete with braids and warpaint, trapper, mule skinner, town drunk, and gunfighter (The Sodey Pop Kid) ... these are just a few of the amazing characterizations of Jack Crabb portrayed so brilliantly by Dustin Hoffman in LITTLE BIG MAN. This is one of the best · movies you'll ever see so don't miss it. It is entertaining, meaningful, and totally great. Need we say more??? The Union College Little Big Man will be shown on Saturday, May Jl at 7:00, 9:40 and 12:15 and Sunday;May 12 at 7:00 and 9:40 only. Admission will be 50 cents and admission will be limited to the Union College Community (and ffiends). · • ·' 147 JAY ST. 70% of the campus did not vote : for either presidential ca-ndida,te, leaviHg the winner a president . with a bout 16.2% of the student community as his supporters .. The figures in the presidentia.J election tell the story best. Jeff Broomes, our newly _ crowned president, recei¥ed 36.5% of aJII votes cast, which constituted 16.2% of the student body. D<;tve Heilberg received 31.4% of the X88 votes cast which left the two \legitimate\ candidates with a total of 6 7.9% of t'he votes cast. Thirty-two and one-tenth of the votes cast were done so in protest of the absurd election system and Goofball f(allops gleefullvfor (}arci(l. inadequate student government. saw fit and then V()ted 5 to 9 with· If you ·combine the Garcia votes an abstention. t~at Garcia's name. with those who didn't vote at all, · should not be on the ballot, thus then you have some 69;9_% of the ignoring the wishes of 200 people campus boycotting the election, who signed. the petition; and a with 84% who did not want ·sizable group that had formed to Breomes as president. req11est his being on the ballot. To The basic reason is obvious ~ paraphrase Larry· Brown: I am. student government here is a joke. president-, ancl d.on't care ~hat It is a joke because elections like you (students) thmk. Essentially, the one just held provide us with the Steering Committee feared the. unrepresentative. and\\results of Gar.cia winning which con·sequently unresponsive would fully show students' \leaders.\ An example of this was discontent with them and the rro.vided Monday in Fox House S)!Stem they cast:rated. Under the lounge. Jerry Garcia had a guise of protecting Union College, petition with 200 signatures which they. voted to pe:petuate fin granted him a place on the baUo.t ~Iect10n. proces.s ndd!ed . With according to the constitution, faults. The Garcia tally m the end which does not specify t·hat a -backfired oh them. candidate has to be a student. The Two hundred and eighty five Steering Committee voted .people wrote . .in for Garcia\' unanimously that they could protesting the inadeguacie~ of the interpret the constitution as . Nystem. onJy hours after his na~e was Witheld from the ballot. With a little bit of time, it could have been- fifteen hu.ndred. But the election process only runs one week, In fctct, from the time· petitions are due to the clecfion itself- is onry three days, with two of them being a · Saturday and Sunday. How the around and meet people - students who they allegedly would represent. In a month long electoral process. ,. candidcttes couldn't win because of their posier:s or _pur.ely because of a well known name. After a month long process, candidates couldn't win with only 16% ·Of the student body's support. . The people who worked for Jerry Garcia are calling for this election ~o he invalidated because it was a farce.· We suggest an ·elec(.ion a month from now void of any of the sleazy, underhanded practices of the Steering Committee, and void of any of the shortcomings of this past election. In a month real electiqns · could he held Where people will know who they are voting forand why. We don't expect to improve anyone's conscience, just clear up a lot of ignoran1.0e. After all, this is a college community and we' are the \effete elite\ according to Nixon. T·here -are plenty of legal constitutional reasons why the election should be ,. invalidated, hut for now We caiJ for invalidation just on the moral . hell can anybody know what any candidate sfands for, much less what he Is like, much less who he ~ ones. is, in oHiy three days? If the , • election p'rocess was a month long, candidates coulc;l have debates in Memorial Chapel or other meeting places, they could use four issues of Concordiensis instead of one, and th~y could get Levt:.S Da'fe's· Mens sliop 49 State St. ~ (do.,...own Sf:!.cncetadyJ l47JAY ST .. ulrlsl put this in your purse before they get 1n your hairf . ·' The earth shattering noise from this purse-fitting horn community is cordially invited to the following functions, sponsored by the Black Student's Alliance: Saturday, May II, a Talent Show in Memorial Chapel at 8:00 p.m. Sunday, May 12, a speaker from t.he Socialist Worker's Party will speak on Black Politics (co-sponsored by the Student Social Action Committee), in Hickok House Lounge at 7:00 p.m. Monday, May J J, a film, A Luta Continua, will be shown in SS 016 at 7:00. (The film concerns the struggles of the people in Angola and other Portuguese- colonized African territories. The film appeared in the 1973 Philadelphia Black Film Festival.) Wednesday, May 15,. Brother Ndugu Sitawisha and wife, representatives of lmamu . Biraka's Congress of Afrikan People, will speak about the CAP and the struggles of Black people in America, in Hickok House Lounge at 7:00. Saturday, May 18, Sonia Sanchez., one of the brightest stars in the IHa.ck consciousness explosion of the sixties, will appear in Memorial Chapel at 8:00 p.m. Events have dashed hopes for a demonstration of Black musical talents, meaning that there ain't gonna b.e concert. ... HAND SEWN STEERHIDE MOCCASINS gives you the protection you've been looking for against muggers and rapists., Just snap\two penlight batteries into this amazing newVigHantAiarm andyou're r-eady. No wi~es required. Complete package includes super simple instructlor:~s showing how the A!arm can also be easily installed on windows or doors, GET VIGILANT BEFORE THEY GET YOU. SUPPLY LIMITED' .•. MAIL THIS COIJPON TODAY! Send me of Vigilant Burglar Alarms 1 enclose $l00for eac~ Vigilant Alarm. Family Jewels Ltd. I understand that if i am not totally 34 ; 31 West Villard Avenue satisfieq, I will receiv.e a qpmplete refund Milwa~kee. Wisconsin 53209 MEN'S . $31.95- ~30.95c~J~gN WOMEN's · $27.95 ..- $26.95co'ir'J~N if returned within 10 days. NAME----~-~_,_.~~------~~~ ADDR,ESS CITY_,..._~~-------- STATE_~-ZIP.-~-

'CALL SEC COuR5E TYPE 010010-01 010012-01 010014-()1 010o15-o1 010019-.01 010020-0l 010023-01 010025-.01 010.028-01' 010031-01 010033-01 010061-01 010065-01 010D65-o·2 010066-0l 010o67-o1 010072-0l 100021-51 10Q028-01 100033-01 100034-0l 1ooo.:sa-o1 100043-01 iOO!l48-01 100049-01 100050-01 100050-02 100055-01 l00067 .. o1 100067-(12 100068-01 100073-tH 1001?.0-01 100120-01 1001?.'>-01 100126-01 101016-01 102006-02 10?.016-01 10?019-01 103008-03 110 0?0-01 110050-01 120012-01 12001'J-01 120021-01 120030-01 1200,31-01 12DOil3-o1 140011-01 140031-01 140040-0l 1.60021-01 160 041-01 160134-01 180023•01 200130-01 220011-01 FE - OlD F'E - 012 F'E - 014 F'E - 01? FE - 019 FE - 020 FE - !J23 FE - 025 F'E - 026 FE - 031 FE - 03.5 FE - 061 FE - 065 FE - 06!:> FE - 066 Ft: - 067 F'E - 072 CElJ- O?l CE:n~ 028 CED- 03.5 CED- 034 CED- 03&. CEn- 043 Cttl• 048 CED- 049 CE:n- o~o CEn- 0':>0 CEn- 05!:> CElJ- Oo7 CEll- 067 C:ElJ- 06tl CE D -- 0 7 S CEO- t?ll CEO- 1?0 CED- 125 CEO- 126 CErJ·· 018 CEn- OO!S CEO- 016 CEil'- \l1~ CEO~ 0:18 CE n- 05C CE-D- 0'>0 ART- 012 ART- G1!:i ART- 0?1 ART- 0?.0 ART- 031 ART- D3.S DRM- 011 DRr-t- 031 OR'-'- 040 MUS- 0?1 MUS- 041 MUS- 134 CLS- O?J. GRK- 130 LAT- 01.J. R R R R. R \ R R R R R R G R R R R R R R R R R R R R R R R R R R ~ R R R R I~ R. R R L L R ~ R R R R ~ R R f~ R R R R R - } ' ... ~r ' ,. \ r 1 t \ \ J_ f • . ,,.-, ~ 1C •\'< ' ~ ' ~ \ \ n.\ion C.ollege Course vahuation ~ ' ~ \' ' Supplement to Concorditmsis-- .Page A UNION COLLEGE COURSE EV ALUATlON Winter Term 1973·7 4 U~!ON COLLEGE COURSE EVALUATIO~ l::liLL \lF RIG>HS lMAGI~ATION IN tiT ASPECTS 0~ LANGUAGE THE: NATuR= WRITERS COMMU~!TIFS&UTOPIAS THe FIRST WORLD WAR MUSIC I \J wEST RN LIFE MIUDLE EAST & U S ~FLF', SEX & DISSENT ~LlES HAV; ~RT¥ tEET ~->nLJTICS .q, GOV'T MAPS ~ MAP MAKING l~lRQ COMP PROGRAMM~ I~TRQ COM~ PROGRAMMG L lf !:' IN THE UNIVERSE l~lRQ TO :ONTEM MATH O.f.IAT IS SCIF.NCE WOMFN l~-LITEqATUR~ PAHAPSVCHJLOG ~HE~BM Pf.IILOS OF MEDICINF Snc IAL CO'JFL ICT l~U!~IDJAL IN CRISIS HlJM-MYD A3E'i8REfJAJSS ~M~qGENCE OF ART!ST .Jf.WJSi-1 3ELitFS Pf.IYSICAL QESOURCES PHYSICAL qESOURCES MFTRQPOLITN LAND USc ~rMPUTE~ LA~GUAGES ~OMPUTFq LANGUAGES bYSTE~S & CYBFR~ETCS teAS!(: 3·0 DESIG'~ A~ONY~OUS AMERICANS A~G~yYQ0S AMERICANS lr-.lRQ TO \ARX!SM uV~AM QF AMGR SDCiTY ~FTRQ SYSTE~S STUDY AM!::R!GA'-J JN:liAI~S iSRaELI CJVIL & H!ST PROJECT I~ ISPA~L STATE LEG!SLAruHE: P~YS!GAL ~~SOURC~S ~f.IYS!CAL ~ESOURCES L' ASIC 3~D DES I G'J LiRAPH!CS :>ART II ARl HISTo:;v I~ ~OL0R ~ PA)~T!NI I I i:JASlC D~A,(!NG II SrULPTURE II UEbJG~!~G Tf.IEATP~ I! AC'T INS ~ \1A SKS LllRF-CT!'<G: q!:Gl'J~INlr ~US!C COM:>OSITJON ll HA~ TC KEY~RJ dAf<M II 2C ~E~~ ~US ORIGI~~ H!~T RO~Et ~~PJRE t1C'MJ:R: TH~ IL! Afl PP!''C!PLES OF tC['< INSTRUCTOR MURPHY L;OLET 1\jELSON STEVENSON ~ AL LE~l t1AII!S~N .,.·ATERS WACIRAJ.I l:LL I <>Tr~N iJCAN SMITH HARTWIG MALE HOF' P'A~I HOrP'A'-~ 5CrliCK u!LLFTTF r~YLEN MAR I ~J 0 ~ F' L.IJUW!G l:lAI<ER ltiEHNETTI: I.E CLE~C t Rt.UNiJ GAllO ,_JMELMAN AU8RF;Y ~ MAI71J\J MJTTAL hOFF'~A~· t1 OFF\ A'' klJSS MOOilti~A fl. POT T~ wb.LS ULLMAN t.HACEY bf: VIf:R ~TJNF'I:lACK tJtKK bl:RK ..1 \.INf'Eil,oiQQfl AU8RFY \' MAIFIN t100R ~ii::A D A biT'LE\'AN li b l TTL 1: M A 'I l1 bIT TL f: HA ~~ A t.iJT7L.E\A' ~•OuRf.IEAD !:>Ti:.CKLIOR is SM I 'f'\ 1: StJIT~.< t:IJRT!S Ll.ikTJS l'fAT~RS TE~TiiOF.T lf:STI:?Qf.-T ::,oRU\ ... I::NR RPT PCT 15 15 22 6 14 20 12 28 17 25 15 24 18 20 24 23 24 9 67 84 21 12 66 48 19 30 24 87 4 6 5 26 52 52 20 11 lli 28 13 11 19 55 55 16 14 8 12 9 19 8 11 9 20 5 10 11 4 8 0 ox 13 '861( 0 01( 6 100% 0 0% 7 35% 9 7\\ 0 ox. 10 58% D 'J% 10 67% 0 0% 0 ox 0 Q% 23 95\ 15 65% 0 0~ 0 ox 7.5 37\ 78 92% 0 O% 66% 78% O% 0% 96% 8 ?2 0 0 29 ?.5 0 0 0 0 i7 0 0 10 17 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 14 0 7 B 0 0 0 0 0 10 0 7 0 D D 104% 0% 0% 0% 0% 65% 0% 0% 50% 154% 0% 0% 0% 0% 0% 0% 0% 87% 0% A7% 66% 0% D% D\ 0% 0% '50% ox 70% 0% 0% ox WINTER TeRM 1973 • 74 A 0 6 6 2 3 5 2 a 5 ~ 1 7 9 7 5 12 3 2 10 35 15 3 29 :1.2 7 11 10 19 2 3 4 11 5 5 11 0 5 6 3 1 4 1 11 0 11 5 4 j 2 3 3 1 2 5 6 j 6 5 10 13 tl 16 9 1J 7 9 17 J 13 6 38 21 j 4 20 15 ~ 15 12 5U 2 J 0 1J 21 21 7 J 5 7 11 4 6 ' 7 1 0 1 12 2 ') 4 1 4 c 9 2 7 1 3 6 0 7 4 3 2 3 2 4 2 6 5 l: t9 17 2 3 1'~ 1.3 6 4 2 18 0 0 1 2 t5 15 1 ' 2 D F' l 0 1 0 0 3 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 . 0 0 0 0 0 0 1 0 l. 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 1 1 0 1 1 CQURS~ JNSTR WORK NO RESPONSE J,69 4.07 2.84 NO RESPONSE 4,63 5,00 3.50 NO RESPOt..ISE INSUF'~lCIENT RESPONSE 2.22 2.66 2.33 NO RESPONSE 4,20 4,20 3,30 NO RESPONSE . 4.20 4.60 3.30 NO RESPONSE NO RESPONSE NO RESPOt.ISE 3.69 3.82 !.27 .3,13 3.53 2.40 NO RESPOt.ISE NO RESPONSE INSUFFICIENt R~SPONSE 3,44 3.92 3,64 NO RtSPOt..ISE .3,75 3,57 2.87 4.69 4.92 3.73 NO RESPOfiJSE NO RESPONSE 2.93 3,10 2.31 2,76 3,32 2.40 NO RESPONSE NO RESPONSE NO RESPONS~ NO RESPONSE 3,82 4,17 3.17 NO RESPONSE NO RESPONSE 4,10 4,6Q 2.70 .3,76 3.76 3.47 NO RESPONSE NO RESPONSE NO RESPONSE NO RESPONSE NO RESPONSE NO RESPONSE NO RESPONSE 4,42 4.?.8 2.92 NO RESPONSE 2.~7 2.28 2.42 3,50 3,75 3,75 NO RESPONSE NO RESPONSE NO RESPONSE NO RESP.QNSE illO RESPONSE 4,50 4.70 3.30 NO RESPONSE 3,57 3.42 3,42 NO RESPONSE NO RESPONSE NO RESPONSE

Page B -·Supplement (o {:oncordiensis U,nion, Cfill.Iege Course Evaluation· . ,- ( l --- .Jtq 0'' COLLEGF COURSE FVAI.liAT!O'I: WINTER TERM 1973 74 CALL SEC COUR~F lYPF DESC~ IPT IO~J 1 NST 1 lU'CTOR l: !\JR RPT PCT A ~ c p F C 0 tJR St: I NSTR WORK 240010-.01 E:CO- 010 R 1: L I:~~ E r-1 EC:.1~0MICS I PHAUP 4?. 33 78l 7 18 14 2 {) 4,42 4 '7 5 \J. 24 240010-02 ECO~ 01 0 R ·cLEr-<E\J ECJ'iiOM!CS I PROSPE'l 47 0 0% 12 HI 12 J 1 NO RESPONSE 240011-01 ECO- 011 R I:LEt-'E'.J E=C:\'NOM!CS II L lrfi I t 25 0 0% 5 12 8 '0 0 NO RE~PO~SE 240011-02 E:CO- 011 I~ !I:LEME'.J !:CO\IOM!CS II 1\E:~;T 32 25 78~ 8 11 9 1 0 J,68 3.84 3.16 ' 240011-03 ECO· 011 R I:LE~E'I t:c:H•O'-~I cs !I ~HULI.'AN 2\> t2 48% 4 11 9 1 () lllj$\)FFICIENT RESPONSE 240011-04 ECO- 011 R t:Lb·1E'l EC:'l'JOMTCS !I ::iHULVAN 2'1 19 90% 3 12 6 0 0 3,42 3.t5 2.94 240137-01 Eco- 131 R t:COI\.QMIC THOUGHT T H'l M\ - 6 0 0% ~ 4 0 0 0 NO ~E~P·ONSE <?40139-01 ECO- L39 R 1-'lil:lUC 'I '.JA\JCI: H~FcMAN 41. 54 A2% 20 1~ 3 0 0 4. 44 - 4~76 3.20 240140-01 ECO- 140 R LABOR tCO'.JOMICS P R.(JS P f: R 4·8 0 0% ll 21 14 ~ ' 0 NQ RESPONSE 240141-01 ECO- 141 R '10NF TARY ECOI\IOMI'CS PHAU-P 33 .30 90% 6 14 9 J I] 4,43 4.60 3.83 240142-01 ECO- 142 R MAC RO·FC DNOM I C THE QRY KI:RSHN['R 31 0 0% 2 12 13 2 1 NO RESP(JNS:E 240147-01 ECO- 14 7 R 'URBAN ECO\IOM ICS rd:NNI=iV 17 13 76% 2 9 6 0 0 4 • .56 4 <61 3.92 240152-01 ECO·· 1?2 R ~I OM!= N I \J THF. .E oo:N OM Y I,.Ukif 14 0 0% 3 6 4 '1 I] ,. NO RESPONSE 260011-01 EGL- 011 R t:\-'GL LIT: Al,JG .~ ROM ~ Rt UNll 24 21 87% ~0 7 6 0 1. • 4.19 . 4,66 3,52 260013-01 EGL- 0 1.~ R AM!:RJCA~,i AUTHORS 1\ I L 8 U R '' 18 0 (}% 5 12 1 0 :0 NO RESPONSE 26oot5-o1 EGL- (115 R l r-.'TI~Q TO L l 'I' ER A T'U t~·E ::>Tt:VFNSOf\J 20 ~9 9?~ 4 1.3 2 0 1. 4,42 4.?8 3-.42 260020-01 E·GL- 02U R I:.Lf:\! (:)F C 'i'MPOS I Tl ON NELSON 19 0 0% 0 6 10 l 2 N.O RESPGNSE i 260122-01 EGL- 122 R A 1-A'I: ~ I C,A ~ Sf·10RT ST oR 'V i;.ADO 26 0 0% 4 7 8 .2 0 ·NO RiESPONSE 260123-01 EGL- 1? ,i R ~l('lliJFR~I At-1ER I CN ~DVEL K ll.BUR\J 21 0 0% 6 6 6 :I) ~ NO RESPONSE 260tJ1-01 EGL- 131 R GRI::AT!VE ..;R IT I NG M A.\ SF' !c L n 18 ~4 77'J. 9 4 4 I) 0 4.1JO 4 '0 7 3.42 \ ~ 2601-31-02 EGL- 131 R l:lli::ATIVE o~RtTI NG 1·1 An\rSI=' I·~ LD 21 18 8'\ 11 a 1 0 1 4,22 4., 16 3,38 260142-01 EGL- 142 R fPAGE:lY COLET 7 r; 71): 4 2 1 ·a 0 4,60 4.60 3,00 260143-01 EGL- !4.5 R COMEDY :;T~VFN50N 2•6 2·0 76% ·3 15 7 '0 r:i 4,45 4o90 .3 .95 260151-01 E.GL- 151 R l:HAllC~R KURPHY 17 0 0% 9 8 0 I) 0 NO RESPONSE 260154-01 EGL- 1'54 R i.. AT!'; SHAKt:SPEARE KUHPHV 14 0 ox ? , 4 0 0 NO RESPONSE 260161-01 EGL- 161 R T HI: LATi:R ROM·ANT!cS F Rf: UNIJ 11 11 1 o.o·\ 4 6 1 'll 0 4,72 4,90 3,27 2·60164-01 EGL• 164 R 1() CE\' EN~L ISH NOV·EL iJLLMANN 18 0 0% 7 4 , 1. 0 NO RESPONS'E 260165-01 EGL- 16':1 R HOll!:R'.J PQJ;:TRY t1A'~~ SF H· L n 19 11 :17\ 6 - 8 2 0 1 4,l,B 4.36 3, DO 260169-01 EGL- 169 R GONTE'1PDRARY ORA~A U L.L. MANN 21 20 95% 2 1.5 6 0 0 ~.40 4.20 3.35 260170-01 EGL- 171J R ::iTUnjF.S I \ AME'R L ,IT S T lNFB'ACK 16 0 O% 4 7 2 1 0 NO RESPONSE <?601 72-01 EGL- 172 R STUDIES l\l n Rfl 1'1 A MAR I NOH 13 ~2 92~ 5 6 1 0 0 4.41 4.41 3,41 280011-01 HST- 011 R T HI:: us 1.765 r.n 1Bt5 \<jELLS 57 46 BQ% 7 27 17 6 0 4.06 4.43 3.52 290015-01 HST- Ql, R T Hf: NEW DEAL 1: AFTEH JONAS J5 28 BQ~ 2 14 15 2 0 J,85 4o03 3.35 280036-01 HST- 030 R t: UR OP!: A\J 4lSlQRY ll U!:H K 54 36 661 6 24 15 5 0 ~.77 4.75 3.88 2Boo65-ol HST- 0 65 R LATIN AME'l 18?5 DN \RlSTOL. 14 11 78% 3 8 2 1. 0 4 '27 4.36 . 3.45 280118-51 HST- ·118 R wOMEN IN AMERICA PEI•NE'V 19 13 68% 6 11 0 0 0 4,76 4.84 3. 76 280125-0:t HST- 12' R AM rJ!PU INTRL TRA lJ JONAS 7 7 1 o·o\ 1 4 2 0 0 4.42 4,26 3.71 280128-01 HST- 1 ?~i R A ~IO':YMQ.JS AMER !CANS POTTS 64 0 O% B 17 24 1l - 2 NO RESPONSE 280:t.2B-01 HST- 12~ l'l 1.1 ~JO ~IY ·~QU S A'1ERICA.NS WELLS 64 0 Q% B 17 24 1l 2 NO RESPONSE 280138-01 HST- 13b 'l L A J 10: 19 CEN EUFlOPE HAt\ SEN 13 12 92% 5 6 1 0 1 J., 83 4,6,3 3,25 280159-51 HST- 1'59 R I 1-J l: S'lVIET PER 1.00 b&RK' 30 0 O% B 15 6 1 0 NO RESPONSE 280169-01 HST- 1 6 <) R ~1 E'X t C A N R I= V 0 L U TID N oR!STOL 10 8 80% 3 5 2 a 0 4,00 4,12 3, 00 28 Ot 74-01 HST- 1 74 R INDIA\! C I V I Ll Z A TI ON ~ L Y N~~ 21 20 95% 4 10 7 0 0 3' 70 4,15 3.20 280195-01 HST- 1 9, R 1: UR SEMI RE'F Rl1 & REV N A l L.E N 9 0 0\ 3 4 2 0 0 NO RESPONSE 300011-01 CHI- 011 R l:lASJC CHI \-lESE 1 I woo ~0 10 1 01)% 4 3 1 2 0 4,00 4,2Q 4,0() 320C11-01 FRN- 011 R bASIC nE'JCH I 1 bOURAlGE: 22 15 oS% 16 2 1 0 0 4.oo 4.46 3' 1)6 320061<-01 FRN- 0 61 R l\JDtVIDUAL. IN CR IS I 5 l.l: CLERC 8 4 51)% 1 3 3 l; 0 4,25 4,oo 3.25 3201J2-01 FRN- 1 32 il ~ r-lf:\!CI.l LIT 8 SOCIETY THOMAS 28 22 78% 8 12 7 0 1 4 .• ~3 4,36 3.00 320133-01 F'RN- 133 R t::ONTE\1P F'lENGH USAGE: GOURA FiE 31, 28 90% 22 6 3 0 0 3' 4 4,25 2.82 320142-01 F'RN- 142 R [H~ AGE OF VOLT Al.RE L.E CU:I•c 14 0 0% 4 5 3 0 l. NO RESPONSE 320151-01 FRN- 151 R Ffl!:\JCH SR SEMIN4R THOMAS 17 0 0% 6 2 4 1 1 NO RESPONSE 340010-01 GER- 0 l 0 R ~ASIC GER'-1A'.J I iooARDE 31 24 77'Y. 13 15 2 1 0 J,79 4,25 .3,30 340011-01 GE: F~- 011 R IHSIC GER4AN I I loiARDE 16 14 87% 4 11 0 1 0 3.92 <4,28 3,35 340131-01 GER- 1:11 R 1 ~IT RQ GERMAN L IT WAR Dr 10 8 80% 5 4 1. 0 0 4,50 4,50 3,50 340133-01 GER- 133 R !,.:('INTE;\1P GERMAN USAGI:. KLEM'~ 18 0 01 3 7· 8 0 0 NO RESPONSE 340143-01 GER- 14.5 R M('ILJER\1 GERMAN LIT t.lf::MH 8 0 0~ 5 2 1 0 0 NO RESPONSE 350011-51 HEB- 011 R tH::i IC HEB'lEW I I V<ELKOVlCS 9 9 100% 7 1 1 0 0 4,33 4,22 3,33. 350133-51 HE8- 133 R HFHqE..J L.A'JG USAGE ~I:LKC1VlCS 6 ,o 0~ 4 1 1 0 0 NO RESPONSE UN JON COLLEGE COURSE EVAI.UAT I Q~.j WINTER TERM 1973 .. 74 CALl. SEC COURSE TYPE neSCRIPTI ON INSTRUCTOR tNR RPT PeT c D r COURSE lNSTR WORK 351011-01 Hf:B- Oll. R tJ~S IC H(:BREW I l loiEL,KOVICS 15 0 O\ NO RESPONSE 360011-01 RIJS- 011 R BAS I C RUSS 14N II JERNAKClF'F 10 6 6DX 2 7 1 0 0 4,33 4,66 3,33 380011.-01 SPN- 011 R BASIC SPANISH I ! VI NICK 27 27 1001 ., 12 8 0 D J,48 3,51 3.37 380131-01 SPN- 131 R !NTRO SPA~·AMER L1T RIGGIO 17 13 16X 3 13 0 0 0 2.~0 2,38 3,07 38D133-t!1 SPN- 133 R ~ONTEM SPANIS~ USAGt YINICK 24 21 871 9 11 3 1 0 2 .• 23 2,9Q 3.57 380142-01 SPN• 142 R SPANISH·A\ER~N ~OVEL RIGGIO 7 4 57X· 3 2 1 0 0 2,75 3,75 3.25 400012-01 'PHL\' 012 R PHILOSOPHICAL PROBS BAK.ER 24 23 95¥ J 19 () 0 0 4\.39 4,39 2.78 400020-01 PHL- 020 R CLASSICAL LOGIC VETTERLJNG 35 0 0% 1l. 13 lD 0 0 NO RESPONSt= 400032-01 PHI..- 032 R MOUfR~ PH!LOSOPNY VETTERLlNG 19 0 ox 2 lJ 4 0 0 NO RESPONSE 400036-01 PHI..- OJb R PHcNOMEN&EX!STENTLSM ;;LLISTON 11 8 72X 1 9 1 0 0 3,50 J., 5Q 3.37 400043-01 PHL- 043 R METAPI-fYSICS ELLISTON 4 3 75X 2 1 1 a 0 3,66 4,66 4,00 400060.-01 PHL- 060 R AESTHETICS IJAKER 12 10 83t 1 l1 0 0 0 3, ~0 3 '70. 2.60 400D70-01 PHL- 070 R PHILOSPHY OF SCIENCE LUD~!G·VETTERLNG 14 0 on 1 6 4 l. 0 NO RESPONSE 400070-01 PHL- 070 R PHILOSPHY OF SCIE~CE i:NTEMAN•WYL.EN 14 0 ox 1 6 4 1 0 NO RESPONSE 400075-01 PHL- 07; R PHILOS OF MED[C1NE I:H.KER 32 0 ox 8 11 8 3 1 NO RESPONSE 420011-01 PS - 011 R Al-lER POLJTICL SYSTEM ,JANCAR 36 0 ox 9 22 4 0 1 NO RESPONSE 420011-02 PS -01:1. ·R Alt4!:;R f'>Ob!TICL SVSTEM 111JMIIRCH 55 0 ox 11. 31 12 1 0 NQ RESPONSE 420012:01 PS - 012 PI lNTERNATNL POLITICS NORMIIN WALBEK 20 16 80% Q 6 4 1 0 4,12 4,06 3,62 420132-51 PS - 132 R AM POLITICAL THOUGHT BOARD 31 0 ox 4 13 13 l.l 0 NO RESPONSE 420135-01 PS - 135 R . I ~JTRO TO MARX [S'M OLLHAN 35 l,4 40X 17 ~2 3 0 0 lNSUF'FlCIENT RESPONSE 420139-01 PS - 139 R ~OL!TICAL T~EORV SEM NICHOLS a 7 an 4 3 0 0 1 5 .liD s.oo 4.14 420142-01 PS - 142 R SOVIET POLl TI CA,L DEV JANCAR u 0 0¥ 2 7 2 0 0 NO RESPONSE 420147-01 PS - 147 R GDVERNG I~D!A&PAMSTN FLYNN 10 0 0~ 3 5 2 0 0 NO RESPONSJ; 420149-01 PS - 149 R COMPAR PQLITCS SEHNR flOARD 17 0 D\ 7 6. 4 0 0 NO RES~ONSE 420151-01 PS 151 R AMERICAN FOREIGN POL GAT! 25 o. 01 9 10 5 1 0 NO RESPONSE 420164-01 PS - 164 R LEGISLATIVE SYSTEMS Tl!JMARCH 24 0 u 10 .10 0 Q 0 NO RESPONSE 420185-01 PS 165 R POLITICS IN E AF'R! CA ~ACIRAH 9 6 66% 4 4. 1 0 0 4.~0 4.5G J.(JO 421.011-01 PS - au R Al-leR POLITICL SV STEM HAIHWI!i 25 19 76~ 0 12 10 ~ 1 4.42 4,73 4, 2.6 430062-0i ' 'CHOLS . ccs- U6<! R C!'lMP COMM ST ..JR SE~ tlERK 4 0 0% 0 4 0 a 0 NO RE~rvNSE 430062-01 ccs- 062 R CnMP tOMM ST ..JR SEM uATI 4 0 ox 0 4 0 0 0 NQ RESPONSE 440010-01 soc- 010 , R lNTRO TO SOC! OUlGv GRACEY 11 :1.0 90~ 2 3 J 3 0 3.70 3,eo 3.60 440035-01 soc- 035. R ~OC.:!AL CO~FLICT WERNETTE 21 25 U9~ tl J 5 4 , 3.36 3.44 3.48 440060-01 soc- 060 R SOCL RESRCH MET40DS I;ARL lLE 13 0 OJ: 5 4 4 0 0 NO RESPONSE 440112-01 soc~ 112 R AMcR I CAN SOC t ETI' GRACEY 7 0 0~ 2 \ 1 1 0 NO RESPO:N~E 440154-01 soc- 154 R SOC!OL OF KNOWLEUGE CARL!LF 7 6 85¥ 2 4 1 0 0 4,50 4' 33 3,33 440160-01 soc- 160 R :SOCIAL CH~NGE loiERNF.TTE 6 6 100~ 5 0 b 1 0 4,33 4,16 3,66 460010-01 STA- 010 R !NTRO STAT!STlCS Ml RAfH LE 28 0 ox 6 16 4 1 2. r.ao RESPONSE 460201-51 STA.- 201 R lNTRO PROB & STI\ T SCHMEE 30 0 OX 7 t6 7 0 0 NO RESPONSE 470211-51 AM - 211 R INTRO MANAGER1A~ ACC r<.At.lTf~ 25 0 0~ ., 6 7 1 \' NO RESPONSE 470219-51 AM - 219 R lNTRO SYSTMS AN~LVS SCHMEE 25 0 ox 9 13 0 0 0 NO RESPONSE 470236-51 AM - 236 R HUM REI.A IN WDUSTRY GRAVES 31 0 0\ 13 12 J 0 0 NO RESPONSE 490010~01 ACC:- 010 R ACCOUNTNG PRINCIPLES KAUTH 18 0 0\ 4 6 5 2 1 NO RESPONSE 490010-02 ACC:- 010 'R ACCOU'ITI\IG. PRINCIPLE!:. THJMM 21 0 01 4 6 41 1 5 NO RES-PONSE 510012-01 BID--o12 R C!:LL R!DLOGV LAMBERT 17 17 100% 2 11 4 0 0 3 t 41 3,64 3,23 510014-01 Bib- 014 R ANI~LS-ORlGI~&DVRSTV ROTH 39 0 0% 16 14 6 2 , 1110 RESP.ONSE 510014-01 BID- 014 R ANlMLS-OR!GlN~DVRSTY llUTTERSlEIN 39 0 ox 16 :1.4 6 2 1 NO RESPO,N~E 510015-01 BID• 015 R GFNF.TICS ~ EVOLUTION llU TZEL 50 42 84X 12 19 17 ll 0 ;s,sa 3r33 J.SO 510015-01 BID- 015 R GENETJ~S & EVOLUTION J liO VER 50 42 84X 12 19 17 0 o, ~.~2 2.42 :L 48 510051-01 Blo- 051 R i:CUL.OGI' lOBI ESSEN 64 56 .S7X 12 36 9 5 0 ;s,87 4, ·05 3,Q7 510130-01 810- 13'0 R COMP ANIMAL PJ,!VS!Ol LAMBERT 19 19 10 ox_ 10 9 0 0 0 3,73 3.57 3.10 ~H0150-D1 Bto.:.. i5o .R t:V OL U T! ONARY l:llOLO GV w !:lOVER 37 1.5 40X 16 17 3 D 0 INSUF'FJCI!;NT RESPONSE 510160-01 BID- 160 R H!STCLOGY!ORGANOLOGV ROTH 24 22 91X 6 1S ? 0 0 4.63 4. 54 4.27 !H0180-01 BIO- 180 R BIOCHEMISTRY UIRECKA 31 26 &3X 15 11 4 0 0 3,03 3,00 4.34 520012-01 BIO- 012 L CELL BIOLOGY U SMITH 17 17 1001 3, 41 3,94 3.23 520014-01 BIO- 014 L AW 'LS-OR!GiN&DVRSTY IJ llOVER 14 15 1071 4,ao 3,60 3,40 520014-02 BIO- 014 L A~ iMLS-ORtG!N&UVRSTY b l:l.OYER 13 12 92% 4.16 3,33 3.8~ 520014-03 BIO- 014 L ANIMLS-ORJGI~·DVRSTY U BOVER 13 9 691 4.QO 3,33 3.5'5

. ' Supplement to Concordiensis ~ Page C . - tJN 1 Oi\J CO~L.:GE COURSE EV,o.i..UAT!OI\i WINT--ER TERM 1973 .. 7<1 . -· CALL. SE·C COURS'E TYPE ' . 1 ,, DE'5CR I Prt ON INSTRUCTOR t;NR RPT PCT 8 c D F COURSI: lNSTR WORK 52001.& -0.2 BIO- OH L GEI'IE'I'ICS & EVOLUTION BOYER 18 ~4 77\1. 2.92 3 • ~-() 4. 28 52001!5 -OJ BIO- 015 L GEI'IET.ICS & EVOLUTION BUTZFL 17 15 88% 3,'13 4 • ·01) 4.06 5~0160--01 BIO- 160 L HI stHl OGV-~·ORu ANOLOGY ROT I-I 11 9 au 4,88 5.0(1 1. 22 52016~-0J Bl:O- 180 L 8 !OCHEM'I STHV BlRECKA 12 13 108~ 3.15 3,23 4.38 ~40010 -0:1 CHM- 010 R fUND CHEMISTRY l S-C:H.A ~FE H 31 28 90% 7 14 6 1 1 3.35 3,53 3.78 540010-02 CH\1- 01 n R f UN;D CHEMISTRY I WANG 31 25 BOX u 8 11 1 -0 3,44 4,04 ~.oo 540012 -o 1 CHt~- 01.2 R r UNo CHEMISTRY I I SCAIF'E 31 4 1211: 4 12 11 4 0 INSUF'F'tCIENT RESPONSE 540012-:02 CHM- 012 R f UNI) C HEM I STRV I I WEICK 26 21 80X 3 9 11 3 0 3,04 2,.71) 3. 57 540012-03 CHM- 012 R ruNn CHEMISTRY ri WEICK 23 2.5 100% 1 II 10 4 0 2,82 ~.7:S 3,30 54 0012 -;o <4· CHM- 012 R P lJND CHE:M I STRV I I SCAirE 3~ ·26 831 4 13 13 1 0 3,~4 4,64 3.53 540032-0:1 CHM- 032 R ORGANIC CHEMISTRY I·l SHe r rt: R 43 39 90\ u 21 10 1 0 3,64 3,64- 4,51 54Q032-0.2 CHM- 032 R ORGAN! C CHEMISTRY I I HULL 52 46 88X 15 18 12 J 3 3,U 4,54 4.28 54014.2~01 -O~M~ 142 R ,CH~M 1NST~UMENT~TtON WERNeR 25 20 801' B 13 3 1 I) 4,3~ 4.41) 4,25 540154-U CHM- 154 R PHYS!CA'l. CHEM III SUTTER 7 ., l.OOX 3 J 1 0 0 4,if8 4.42 3,85 5500.12;.01 CHM- 012 L fUND CHEMISTRY II WE !CK 2'5 24 96X 3,16 3.79 3. 91 550012 -02' CHM- 012 L fUND CHEMISTRY l I \\ MARTIN 24 22 91X 3,36 4.3~ 4. 0 0 55 o ,,.12 -·o 4 CHM- 012 L FUND CHEMISTRY 1 I HULL 20 17 85X 3,,8 4,23 4,00 550012-05 CHM- 012 L r uNo C:HEMiSlRY !1 WE:ICK 19 1B 94X 3,55 3.7-r 3. 66 550032-'01 CHM- 032 L OR·GANI C CHEMISTRY I I SHEfFER 17 17 100X 3,75 4,D!> 3. 64 55003~ -02 CHM- 032 L DRGA:NI C CHEI'H sTRY II t;U'I.L 18 t5 83¥ 4,06 4,73 J ... 6 550032-0:3 CHM- 032 L OR-GAN! C CHEMISTRY I I .w MART IN 19 17 89\ ;s. 47 4. 4l 3,64 55oo32 -~o-4 CHM- 03? L. ORGANIC CH~MiSTRY I I HULL 14 10 7U 3 '8,0 4,0~ 3.80 550032 -·OS CHM- 032 L ORGAN! C CHE)'I!STRY n !:iHHFtR 11 10 90~ 4,30 4 • 4-1) 3,50 550032-06 CHM,.. 032 1 L SR'GANIC CHEMI.STRY I I ltlANG 18 17 94% J,76 4,58 3.58 550142-02 CHt1- 142 L. CHEM f NSTRl:JMENT-AT I 0111 loiERNER 10 B BO\ 4.87 4,7~ 4.12 550142-0:3 CHM- .l42 L GHE~ INSrr!UMENTAT!OI>. ~UTTER 7 B 114% 4.U 3.62 4. 75 560010-01 CHM• 010 X f UNO t:HEMI~T'RY ! SC:HAH Efl 66 55 63\ 3.18 2 .·a:s J. 90 560012-0.1 CHM~ 0.12 X + UNn CHEMISTRY II SC:A!f'E HO 90 811 J,,3 4.1~ 3.51 61005l-Ol. GEO- 051 R 0 Cl:: A N.O GR Afi'HV l I 1 MME·R MAN 33 28 84\ 5 14 13 l D J,J9 3,64 2.57 62005t-o 1 GE 0- 051 l 0 CEAND GR APHY llMMF.RMAN 33 27 81\ 2o92 3.52 2.64 6400111} -01 MHl- 010 R C ALC.UL US I rlANNAN 33 0 0% 3 11 9 6 3 \'10 RESPONSE 64001,~-02 M·T H- 010 R (;A~CUL.US ! i.EACH 38 28 73% 9 16 8 2 0 3.35 3,7l 3. 21 640012-01 MTH- 012 R CALCULUS I I MADDt.US 23 0 0% 9 7 5 1 1 NO ReSPONSE 640012-02 MTH- 012 R CALCULUS II h0UGHLJN 34 28 82ti 11 a 1l 0 3 4,03 4,3!:i 4.10 64Do12 -o 3 MTH- 012 R C ALCUL. US I l ::iTONE 27 23 85~ 6 9 8 2 2 4.26 4,65 3. 5~ 640012-04 MTH- 012 R CAL C':Ul. US II REYN<DL DS 25 21 84% 14 4 5 1 1 :$,33 2.6l 3.33 640012-05 MT 1-1- 012 R C ALCU.L US li biNG 26 24 92% 6 11 6 3 0 3,!J4 lo65 3. 34 640012-.0 6 MTH- 012 R CALCULUS !1 TORNGA 31 27 87% 3 8 13 7 0 3,14 3,14 3. 33 640012-07 MTH- 012 R (; AL.CUL US II STRAIT 2\'S 0 O\ 9 7 3 3 1 NO RESPONSE 64MH-o 1 M'TH- 014 R C A~CUL.US II l STONE 12 10 83% 3 5 2 2 D <4.30 4,Bo 3.40 640014-02 MtH- 014 R CALCULUS l I I -~ [CK 18 11 61\ 4 8 4 i! .o 3,63 4,Qlil 3.36 64o cJ1:S-o 1 MT H- 018 R [ NTRO L.OG!.C&SE T THEO FAIRCH !LD 16 15 93% 4 3. 6 3 0 3,,3 4,05 3,(t6 64002()-0 1 MT H· 020 R soc S C: I MATH METH I L. ING 16 1.6 100\ 6 7 3 0. 0 3.~1. 3,87 2.75 640·o2B-.o 1 MT H- 028 R P ROBAB IL ITY 0 lLLET TE 31 21 67% 12 '1J 5 0 0 3,61 3,95. 2,95 640030-01 MTH- 030 R 0 RD IN D!F'I=' EQUATIONS TORNGA 25 11 44% 5 10 9 1 a I NSIJF'f 1 c; I ENT RESPONSE 64003.0-0 2 MTH- 030 R 0 RD IN Dl p· EQUATIONS L.EA.CI1 17 15 88% II 8 1 0 0 3,,3 4,60 .5, 0 0 640030-03 MTI-I- 030 R 0 RD l N D I F'F' EDlJAT IONS STRAIT 26 0 O\ B 11 5 2 0 1110 R!: SF'ONSE 640032-01 MTH- 032 R AAS.TRACT ALGEBRA I REY'NOLDS 9 4 44% 2 2 4 1 0 INSUFFICIENT RESPONSE 640032'\'0 2 MT H~ 032 R ABSTRACT ALGEBRA r L.OUG11L.IN 12 12 100~ 5 2 4 1 0 3. 56 4 ,83· 4.l6 6-<401311-0 1 MTH- 138 R \1U~T!VARIABLE CALC MAQO.AI)S 15 0 O% 2 ' 4 4 0 NO RESPONSE 660011-~ 1 PHY• 011 R I t-JTRO TO PHYSICS I C SWARTZ 30 22 731' 5 16 7 1 1 3,68 4,09 3. 27 660011-.0 2 PHY- 011 hl I NTRQ TO PHYSICS I c SWARTZ 34 3.5 102¥ 9 21 J a 0 3,,7 4,25 3.14 670011-01 PHY- 011 R I NTRQ TO PHYSICS 1 r nus 16 11 6BX 3 5 5 3 fJ 3,00 3 ,1S 3.45 670011-.0 2 PHY- 011 R I NTRQ TO PHYSICS I THUS 23 20 86X 3 4 11 2 3 2,40 2,00 3.60 6700:1:1-01 PH Y- 013 R l NTRO TO PHYSICS !I L.EW IS 17 15 881 4 1J 0 0 0 3.13 3,25 S,46 670.017-01 PHY- Q.17 R MODERN flHYS ICS I I GDBI..E 6 0 0\ J 3 0 I) 0 NO RESPONSE 670024~0 1 PHV- 024 R STATISTICAl. THERMO PlLCHER 6 6 10DX 3 J 0 . 0 0 3, 66 3,50 3. 33 670123-01 PIH- 12.S R HIE Pl.. ANET EARTH lri SCHI'IA R Z 6 0 OX 2 4 0 I) 0 NO RESPONSE \JN! ON COLLEGE COlJRSE EVAI:.tlATIOr>J Wf.NTER TERM 1973 . 74 m ~ COURSt: CALL SEC Ct'IURSE J)(p F. DESc~q PT I ON I N•STRUCTOR ENR 'RPT PCT A a c D r INST~ WORK 67013 3·01 PHY- 133 R El,ECT ·& MAGNETISM 11 w SCHWARZ 4 0 a~ 1 2 1 0 0 NO RESP()NSE 6 7014 2·()1 PHY- 142 R OUANT\1 MECH APPI.CTNS \oll~DSOR 6 0 ox 0 6 0 0 0 NO RE SP()NSE 680-0ll-()1 PHY- 011 L INTRQ 'fO i2HYS!CS I TITUS 24 0 ox NO RESPilNSE 680011-{)2 Pi-i y- 011 L IN 'fRO TO PHVS:ICS I t; SWARTZ 23 0 o:r: NO RESP.CNSE 680011-()3 PHY- 011 L - INTRQ TO PHI'S!C:S I H TUS 23 0 ox NO RESP()NSE 680Dl1·C5 PHY- 011 L. lNTRO TO PHVSi.CS I WINDSOR 20 0 ox NO RE SP.CNSE 6800l3-()1 PJ.1Y- 013 L I NTRO TO PHI'S!CS I I 1.-E 1'1 IS 17 ':!.5 88\ 3.13 3 ,4~ 3.6o 6800!.. 7-()1 PHY- 011 L MODERN PHYSICS II (,i0BLE 7 D ox NO RE SP<lNSE 680153·()1 PHY- 133 L E:LECT &·MAGNETISM I 1 \' SCHWARZ 5 D O\ NO RESPONSE 7100l0-t:J1 PSY~ 010 R !NTR6 PS~CHOLOGI' ~UNTLEV 15 0 0\ 1 7 s 1 1 NO RESPONSE 710Dl O·U2 PSY- 01()- R INTRO ;PSYCHOLOGY CALA13R lA 15 G 01 2 5 5 0 1 .NO RE SPCJNSE 7100l 0-()3 PSY- 010 R INTRQ PSYCHOLOGY !'lEW M.liN 17 0 ox 3 8· 6 0 0 \NO RESP~NSE 710020-01 PSY- 020 R STAT! STICAL METHODS 13!:R T H O~D 28 D 0% 6 16- 6 0 0 NO RE SP ()NSE 710024-()1 PSY- 024 R SOCIAL P$'tCHOLOGY t,:IEiv MA Ill 33 0 0% 7 9 11 <4 0 NO RESPONSe 710030-(]1 PSY- 030 R TH~ORY Of PERSONALTY GRA V&S 51. 0 0\ 3 18 27 3 0 NO RESPONSE 710051-()1 PSY- 031 R ARNORMAL P'SYCHOLDG¥ PEARCE 24 0 ox 5 9 9 0 0 NO RESPONSE 710035-01 PSY- 035 R ORGANIZATIONAL PSYCH t;iRAVES 24 0 0\ 2 11 10 0 1 NO RES~ ONSE . 7100~8-(11 PSY- 0-313 R CHI l.D PSY'CHOLOG V NANCY WAL6EK 27 0 0% 6 8 7 4 0 NO RESPONSE 710-040-01 PSY- 040 R ADOLESCENT PSYCHOLGY NANCY l~ALBEK 14 a 01 & , 2 0 0 NO RESPONSE 710041-01 PSY- 041 R HUMANISTIC PSY.CHOLGY CA.l.AfiRIA 24 0 ox 5 1U 4 0 0 NO RESPONSE 710044-01 PSY- 044 R ~XPERfMNTL PSYCHOL I HUNTLEY 15 0 O\ 8 5 2 0 0 NO RESPONSE 710046-01 PSY- 046 R PHYSIOLDG!CL PSYCHOL ~ERTHOLD 23 0 0\ 6 9 8 0 !) NO RESPONSE 710·04 7- 01 PSY- 04 7 R PSYr.HOL HI ~T & S YS TF.J1S CAI..ABRIA 20 0 0~ 4 7 8 0 (I NO RESPOt.JSE 710049-01 PSY- 049 R C~lNICAL PSYCHOL I I l.lOHLING 26 0 0\ 8 14 3 0 a NO RESPONSE 710050-{)1 PSI'- 050 R ~DUCATIONL PSYCHDLGY GIRDNER 7 0 0\ 5 1 0 1 D NO RESF\'ONSE 710060-01 PSV- 060 R PS:tr;HOL COLLOQUIUM I PE:ARCE 7 0 0% J 4 0 ,0 0 NO RESI>ONSE 710063 ... {):1 PSY- 063 R CHILO STUDY I I GlRDMER 16 0 0\ 11 !) 0 0 0 NO RESPONSE 711010-01 PSY- 010 R INltlO PSYCHOLOGY 81::RTHOLD 59 0 O\ 12 40 5 0 0 NO RESPONSE norJ-44- 01 'P SY.., 044 L tXPER lMNTl. PSYGHOL HUNTLEY 15 0 0% NO RESi>ONSE 740020-01 ES - 020 R MECHANICS 1-'A!IIL!LIO 22 22 100% 5 ''I 5 3 0 2.81 2.90 4,27 740022- 01 ES ~ 022 R SCI OF' ENGlN MATI;RLS POTTER 23 19 82'\ 5 1 9 2 0 3,73 4,42 J,68 740024-01 ES - 024 R tL~CT~IC CIRCUITS lNGIJ~RSSON 38 30 78\ 11 12 9 3 2 3.70 :s.&o 3.20 740026-01 ES - n2o R THERt-1'0 & HEAT TRANSF AUI:;RE'Y 34 18 52 X 7 11 10 5 0 3. 77 ::5.44 3.5o 140030-01 ES - 030 R MF.CH or OEfOR SOLI OS 1-'A:NLILIO 8 0 0~ 2 3 2 1 0 NO ltESP-ONSE 7401)3.3- 01 ES - 03j R fL UjD SYSTEMS ANAL Y!:i ::iHANEBROOK 7 7 100% 0 4 3 0 0 4,i7 <4,B5 3,85 7410.11-01 ES - 011 R INTRQ ENGfN SVST~ 11 CiODDHE: ART 23 0 OX 9 10 2 2 D NO RESPOIIISE 741011-02 ES - 0 1l. R l~TRO E~GtN SYSTS I I C.RA!Ci 27 0 0~ 10 11 5 0 1 NO RESPONSE 742011-01 ES - oa R fNTRO ENGlN SYSTS 1 1 E;ISEfJSTADT 27 20 74% 9 10 5 1 2 3,85 3,90 4,15 742011-02 ES - 011 R INTrlO ENG! N SYSTS I I E: lSEMSt A.fH 21, 21 100~ 4 10 6 1 Q 3,J6 3, .. 2 4.Q4 750020-01 ES - 020 L MF.CH,tt.Nl CS PANL! L.ID 22 0 ox NO RESPONSE 750024-Di ES - 0:?4 L ~LECTRIC Cl~CUITS ~uss 18 0 u NO RESFIONSE 750024-02 ES - 024 L ~LEcTR!C C]RCUITS ,. HUSS 20 0 ox NO RESPONSE 750030-01 ES - 030 L f'IECH OF' OEFOR SOLIDS PANLI(..IO 8 0 0~ NO·RESPONSE 750033-01 ES - 033 L HU!D SYSTEMS ANALVS ~HANE~ROOK 7 7 100¥ 4,14 4,71 3,DO 751011-01 ES - 011 L INlRO ENGIN SVSTS 1 I G00014EART 13 0 ox NO RESPONSE 751011-02 ES - 011 l. INTRQ ENGIN SVSTS I 1 CRAIG 16 0 0~ NO RESPONSE 751011-03 ES - 011 1.. lNTRO ENGIN SYSTS I I GOOOHEt.RT 11 0 0\ NO RESPONSE 751011-04 ES - 011 l. INTRO ENGIN STSTS I 1 CRAIG 10 0 0\ NO RESPONSE 7520·11-01 ES - 011 L INTRO E~GIN SYSTS I'l EISENSTADT 12 0 0\ NO RESPONSE 752011-02 ES ~ 011 L lNlRO ENG!~ SVSTS I I I;;ISENSTADT 12 0 0~ NO RESPONSE 752011.-03 ES ~ Otl. L INTRQ ENGIN S~SlS I 1 ElSENS.TADr 12 0 0% NO RESPONSE 752011-04 ES ,. OJ,.l L HlTilO ENGIN SYSTS I I EISENSTADT 11 0 0% NO RESPONSE 770 030'•01 CE - 030 R ST-HUCTURES PIKUL 24 16 66\ 5 8 9 l 0 3,50 4,l2 3,93 7700-41-01 CE - 041 R ENG I NEE R l \1 G LAW 1-iARLOW 19 0 O\ 5 10 3 l 0 NO RESPONSE 770044--01 CE - 044 R l:NGINEER I 'JG PLANNtNG t1ASOI\i 11 8 72\ 8 2 1 0 0 3,87 ... .12 2.75 77 o·o 419-- o 1 C:E - 049 R f.:~V IRONME~TAL ENGR I I;IAHDT 10 8 8D\ 3 4 3 0 0 4,37 ... J7 3.25 7800-49-01 CE - 0:49 L. EN V lR~NME\JTAl. ENGR 1 I:! A ROT 10 8 eo\ 3,50 \' .37 3.50 6100J2-01 EE - 032 R ~EMtCONOUCTR DEV&ciR GALANTOW!CZ 19 t3 6.8\ 7 ~ 3 .5 1 4,00 3.J8 3.23 ..

Page D - Supplement to Concordiensis ' ... l .. Nl RESPONSE - 1>0 CARDS WERE RECEIVED FROM 1l£ lNSTRUCTm, at THEY ARR.JVED TOO LATE · INSUFFICIENT RESPONSE -LESS rttt.N 50\ OF TtE ST\DENTS EHt0LLED RESPQt.OED CLASS NOT EV~lm - CARDS \~~ERE LOST, DA.TA WI'S FQN> TO BE UNALID CR OTt-ER litEBACKER ERIKR I NOTES The Union College Course Evaluation is a survey of· student attitudes towards the courses offered in the Winter Term. Each instructor of any class with over four students was asked to distribute : questionnaires and mark-sense answer cards to his students. These cards were then keypunched and tabulated by the college's Honeywell 0415 computer. A summary of this tabulation follows. A more complete version is available at the reference desk of Schaffer Library. It should be emphasized that the primary intention of Linebacker is to serve as a supplementary guide to the students. faculty, and administration in their own evaluation of the courses being taught at Union College. Linebacker does not pretend to be a flaw.less measure of the courses and faculty. One must be expecially wary of courses with low enrollments where· one student's answer could drastically change the rating. as will always happen with small samples. We would Ii·ke to thank everyone who helped in this effort, includin~ ·Mr. James Alberg; Mrs. Lorraine Marra; Mr. Calvin G. Schmidt, Registrar; Mr. Richard M. Daniel, Systems Analyst~ Mrs. Nancy Renzi, Programmer; Mr. William F. Williams; Prof. Theodore Schwarz; and William Talis. Lester M. Feintuck l75 Editor Robin L. Waring 6 75 Editor Sara Jane Goldberg '76 Sam Clevenson, Publisher May, 1974 GERBER'S WORLD. For all.those whose life's ambition has been to shape world events, contact Robert Gerber eoneerning the inter-nation simulation at 346-9895.

Page D - Supplement to Concordiensis UJ)ipn Colleg~ Co~~JSe Evaluation CALL SEC COUH SF 810141-01 EE - 141 810143-51 EE - 143 810212-51 EE - 212 810234-51 EE - 234 820032-01 EE - 032 820141-01 EE - 141 840001-01 ME - 001 B4Q030-01 ME - 030 850030-01 ME - 030 870012-0l cs - 012 870018-01 cs - 011:! 870022-01 cs - 0?.2 870126-01 cs - 126 870131-51 cs - 1.31 870146-01 cs - 146 'JiN I ON COLLEGE CDliiRSE EVAI..UAT!ON WIN'I'!;R TERM TYPF DESC~If>T!ON INSTRUrCT('}R ENR RPT PCT A 13 R R R R L. L R R L R R R R R R t.NERGY CO'IJVERS I ON ll% VAR SSO N 7 0 O' 2 J l::Ll::CTROMAGNETC THEOH GAUNT O•W I CZ 18 ~7 Q4X B 4 !NlEG'RTD C IRCT AP'PL GAJJAR 13 12 92X 4 8 LOGICAL DESIGN [ HOFFMAN 25 0 O\ 9 e i:iEMICONDUC:TR tlEV&CIR GA'LANTI\JW! CZ 16 0 Ol& E::NE:R'GV CO\IVERSION I IIJGVARSSON 6 0 0% Mf:=(.;.J-1 ENGNqG SEMINAR KETCHUM 13 0 0% UYNAM!CS LINEAR SVST bE VIER 25 0 0% 4 14 IJVNAMfCS L!MEAR SVST bE VIER 26 0 0\ rnRTRAN PROGRAMMING D WO~G 28 0 0~ 10 6 l\JTRO TO DIGITL C0MP ~\C KEOWN 2S 0 0% B 6 NUNER t-1ETH-COMPlJTERS '-RA IG 17 0 0% 8 J ADV SDFTW.ARE n;ES I GN G wiLLtA\''S 10 0 0~ 4 4 AI,.GOR LANG & COMPLRS UANIEL. 27 0 Oll B 10 UATA STRUCTURES M C KEOWN 20 0 0~ 5 6 1oD RESF'Ot5E - N> CARDS WERE RECE!IVED FRCJ4 n£ INSTRUC~, OR lt£Y ARRIVED TOO LATE INSI!JFFICJENT RESPONSE - LESS Tti6.N 50\ OF Tt£ STl.OENTS ENWlLJ3) RESPON>ED 1973 .. 74 c ll 2 0 4 0 1 0 7 1 4 3 9 2 8 1 2 < 0 ;a 6 0 6 2 CLASS t-I>T EVAI.l.ATED - CARDS WERE LOST, DATA. W.S FQH> TO BE INVALID CR OlH!R LII\EBACKER ERR<R NOTES The Union College Course Evaluation is a survey of· student attitudes towards the courses offered in the Winter Term. Each instructor of any class with over four students was asked to distribute . questionnaires and mark-sense answer cards to his students. These cards were then keypunched and tabulated by the college's Honeywell G-415 computer. A summary of this tabulation follows. A more complete version is available at the reference desk of Schaffer Library. It should be emphasized that the primary intention of Linebacker is to serve as a supplementary guide to the students. faculty, and administration in their own evaluation of the courses being taught at Union College. Linebacker does not pretend to be a flawless measure of the courses and faculty. One must be expecially wary of courses with low enrollments where one student's answer could drastically change the rating, as will always happen with small samples. We would like to thank everyone who helped in this effort including Mr. James Alberg: Mrs. Lorraine Marra; Mr. Calvin G. Schmidt, Registrar: Mr. Richard M. Daniel, Systems Analyst~ Mrs. Nancy Renzi, Programmer; Mr. William F. Williams: Prof. Theodore Schwarz: and William Talis. Lester M. Feintuck '75 Editor Robin L. Waring '75 Editor Sara Jane Goldberg '76 Sam Clevenson9 Publisher May, 1974 r COU 1 RSE: l NSTR WORK 0 NO RESPONSE 2 3,70 4o05 3.Q5 0 2,58 3,41 3,41 0 NO RESPONSE NO RESPONSE NO RESPONSE NO RESPONS·E 0 NO RESPONS,E NO RESPONSE 0 NO RESPONSE 0 NO RESPONSE 2 NO RESPONSE 0 NO RESPONSE 0 NO RESPONS:E 1 Nil RESPONSE GERBER'S WORLD. For all those whose life's ambition has been to shape world events, contact Robert Gerber concerning ·the inter-nation simulation at 346-9895. i· ,! I I !

''The· Cave Dwellers~~ THE CAVE DWELLERS by WILLIAM SAROYAN \The Cave Dwellers\ happens . on the stage of an abandoned theatre because all buildings are caves, and . hecause the theatre is the cave at its. best - the last arena in which .all is always possible. tn the eaves of the government I and the churc~. for instance. all has long since stopped being possible. in favor of a pattern of formal repetition. which some CJf us fi-nd onlv amusing and monotonous. by t\lrns. Two of the leading characters ofthe play. called the King and the Queen. are professjonal actors. old. unemployed. ill and comic. because apart from the truth that every man in the world is inevitahlV an actor· of one sort or another. who else hut reiected actors would find sanctuary on the stage of an a:handoned theatre. within a silent and empty auditorium? Who else would return with silent regret and hope to a fallen empire except a King and Queen driven long ago from their own realms? Pe-rformances: M.a-:.-v 8, 9, 10, 11 N ott Memorial Theatre for Feservations call: 370-6153 photos by Scott Gordon

i ~~ I .l ~: I l I I i I I ·., t r. \ ) _, , ''\ 1. > ~ ,. · r~ ·; 'I • \ \ ' ' 1 - : ''The Cave Dwellers~~ THE CAVE DWELLERS by WILLIAM SAROYAN \The- Cave Dwellers\ happens on the stage of an ahandoned theatre hecause all huildinfls are caves, and hecause the theatre is the cave at its hest - the last arena in \\'hich all is always possible. In the caves of the flO\'ernment and the church. for instance. all has lonJl since stopped heinfl rossihlc. in f;nnr of a pattern of fnrmal repetition. which ~omc of 11~ find onl\' amusing aHd monotonous. hv turns. Two of the leading characters of the plav. called the King and the Queen. are professional actors. old. unemployed. ill and comic. hecause apart from the truth that every man in thr \wrld is ine\·itahlv an actor of one sort or another. who else hut reiected actors would find sanctuarv on the stage of an ahandoned theatre. within a silent and empty auditorium? Who else would return with silent regret and hope to a fallen empire except a Kinfl and Queen driven long aeo from their own realms? Performances: May 8, 9, 10, 11 Nott Memorial Theatre for reservations call: 370-6153 photos by Scott Gordon

Pa{?e 10 CONCORDIENS/S, Thursday, May 9, 1974' BLITHER Seniors: graduation announcements are in. See Mrs. Marra at the Student Activities Office. * * * * On Tuesday. May 14. Dr. James Corman of General Electric will speak on \Solar Energy Applied to Residential Climate Control.\ N10J Science Center. at 4:30p.m. * * * * One contact lens. a ring, a watch (among other things) have been found at Schaffer Librarv. Check for lost ·items at the Circulat.ion Desk. Students are reminded that should they lose an item on campus, the Securitv maintains an inventory of all items. · * * * * Wanted: female camp counselor. specialist in gymnastics, tennis. potterv. ceramics or dance. Pkase call 356-0796. * * * * The Chemistry Department will hold a picnic, Sunday May 19 at Girling Center. Starting at noon, Admission is $L50 per person, and the Chemistry Department would prefer if tickets were purchased in advance from Prof. Thomas Werner or Howard Goodman. Transportation will be provided. The picnic wiH include the annual faculty-student softball game. and plenty offood and drink! * * * * The Fconomics Department Spring pi~nic will be held on Wednesday May 15. For details, visit your friendly economist at UCol. * * * * Dt1n't miss the Coffeehouse this Friday night. May 10. at 8:30 in Old ChapeL \Chris and Tony\ are featured, whe have just returned from a tour of the South. inchrding Caffe Lena and many big clubs. ·\hn. c;tmpu~ talent \\i.ll he appcarin).! in the pcr~un of Ruth Rarraport. * * * * St1mmn Joh A camp for the mental!~ retarded in Wilton. New York (5 miles north of Saratoga Springs} needs a counselor. If intC\rested. call Mrs. McShane or Mr. Conroy, 584-3110. * * * * Scni0r fnj.!incers and Computer Science Majors Several nev. jub nrt·nin.!!' Stor into the Placement Office for more information. * * * A reminder to all Modern Language majors to hand in the student questionnaire to Mme. Clohesy in the department office as soon as possible. If you have not received one yet, there are copies available in the office. The student liasons to the department will discuss the results with the majors at a meeting to be held May 14 at 4:30 in Humanities 115. * * * * Union College Health Studies Center presents \Problems and Perspectives for National Health Insurance: Its Effect on Current Health Delivery Systems in New York State\ featuring Edward Van Ness. director of the National Health Council, Tuesday. May 14. 1974, at 4:00p.m. at Hale House Lounge. * * * * Tim McCabe. your student trustee. will field questions in the Stral!Ss Lounge on Mondav Mav 20. Come at 9:00p.m. and find out what's happening. * * * * The third a-nnual Schenecto~a Beer Rally, sponsored by Chi Psi wi.ll he held on Wednesday May 15. There is a sign-up sheet at the Lodge. Onlv 15 teams are being accepted. Each team consists of four drinkers and one driver. Entrv fee is one dollar. There will be a championship trophv awarded. Give vour entrv monev to either Bill Henson or Jack Dunn. All non-participants a·re invited to the .post competition festivities. heing held at the Huh. where the awards. will be presented. * * * * TherC' will he a Rike Clinic sponsored by the Women's Cgtucus on Snturdav. Mav II. from 10 a.rn. to 12 noon at the library plaza. Fvervone is invited to hring hikes and learn how to fix and clean them. Please hring rags. oil. kerosene. and anv tools vo u can. In case of rain. the Rike Clinic will he held Saturday. May 18. · * * * * ASCF erection hallots for President will so()n he sent to all civil engineers. Please leave vour vote in the C. E. office. * * * * The IEEE will host WRGB-TV newscaster Ed Dague on Thurs., Mav 16. in Butterfield 204 (the Alps). Mr: Dague. who has an educational hackground in engineering, will discuss the value of an engineering education. and how it has affected and influenced his career as a TV broadcaster. Coffee and doughnuts will be provided. * * * * Attention all EE's. Membership in the IEEE is now·being offered at Y., price. Contact George Apostolou at Fiji (372-0 172). or Prof. Gajjar in the FE office. · .. Union Scholar Christine M. Kelly, a Union on research in neurophysiology. College senior from Amsterdam, The Union senior spent the N. Y _, has been awarded a spring of her sophomore year in Fulbright-Hays fellowship and Vienna as part of the college's will spend the 1974-75 academic term abroad program and last year studying in Germany. A year she studied at the Swiss member ·Of the college's first (ully ·Federal Institute of Technology in coeducational class, she is the first Zurich. Her subsequent female student at Union to win a proficiency in German meets a Fulbright-Hays grant. ' requirement for the Fulbright- Miss Kelly, a biology major at Hays grant Union, will spend the year at the There were approximately 550 University of Berlin where she grants for study in 46 countr:ies will be attending classes and awarded in this year's Fulbright- working with Prof. O.J. Grusser Hays program. ~~~~~···~~AA~~~~·4~~~- MOTHER FERRO'S ... ~&Featuring Italian-American Cusine\ lUS BARRETT ST. SCHENECT A:DY 016-9554 Review: Good Production, Fair Play by MORTIMER BREWSTER William Saroyan is a very difficult playwrite to pigeonhole. His comedy is very dramatic, his drama very comic. He is constantly dealing in symbols, and sometimes the symbolism is difficult to fathom. His plays rare.fly fare Well. Many think SaTOyan's time is yet to come. Some think he is as old as a Saga lunch. rhe Montebanks' production of The Cave Dwellei'S is an admirable one. It is a very difficult play ·to do well, and it is not Saroyan's best. The acting overcomes most ·of the play's flaws, although some· flaws still remain in the production as a whole. .. The Cave Dwellers takes place in an abandoned theatre and corK·t:rns the lives of people of the t lh:a tn:. The King and the Queen arc aging actor~ reduced by the times and the \violence\ of .others to hcgging for their meals. With them is the Duke, an ex\-prize fighter who lost the big fight out of fear of killing his opponent. The huilding~ around them are heing dynamitt:d to make way for ne~ houses. Driven into the decaying hulk is the Girl, afraid and alone. She and the Duke fall in love, urged on by the kindness of the King and Queen. Also driven to this sanctuary of love is a Father, a Mother, their new-born child, and a 'bear called Gorky. Theirs is a world of hope, even after they are driven out by the wrecking crew. ·rhe performances of Stanley Kaminsky as the King and Dawn W a<lworth as the Queen are the best in the production. Stanley's range of emotions is wide and is convincing as the aging lord of his domain. Dawn is a very believable Queen. She adds a true touch of grace to the show. Good jobs are also done by Peter Sherman (the Duke), Sam King (the Father), and Jane Weiner (the Girl). Gmky the bear (played by Frank Hoster) is a great comic character. The technical aspect of the producticm is not an it could Tom P'axton entertained Unionftes last Friday ni!!;ht. photo hy Leslie Steineker he. The set is funcf.ional without being much else. The lighting is bizarre but effective. On the whole, The Cave Dwelle.rs, difected by Bernard Carey, is a good production of a fair play. The cast performs. with enthusiasm and often succeeds in 111oving the audience to laughter. or touching their hearts. Thursday, Friday, or Saturday evenings would be well '.spent at the Nott Theatre watching The Cave Hwellers. . \' * \' \' ATTENTION ALL INCURABLE ROMANTICS: Suffering from the ennui of contempomry rock music? • 4 Treat your malady with a dose of Top 40 music fr.om 195S- lCJ64· each Tuesday night from I 0-12 on WRUC. fi40. The two-track monophonic recordings, Jour-part harmonies~ lush studio orchestrations, and original. scratchy pressings will provide soothing if fleeting .relief from the raucous rock music of· today. Though Footst(1ps at W R U C does not ghe advice ~ ·. the lovelorn, hawk ac11e re.med·ies, or offer •recipes for cherry cokes, be does ta11.e any reasonable requests for platters that matter, the vast archives of WRUC Radio permitting. Don;t forget this Saturday's get-together at Girling Center. . ._..TOM LAUGHLIN • DELORES TAYLOR ·eo-St.mn.CLARK HOWAT Sa• •••u r., FRA11C llld TffiSA C1111SJ1M • . ....._, \IMRY MISE SCl.TI ·• Dnctld llu I. C. FRMK ;\ · AllllioiiiiWrllm~·PriMtian· TECtiiiOOI.Oft8 IPGI CeiHr.e~Rt..,_ ...._ llaA~Ww .... ., 0 AW....., CeltlllltUfticallona c • .., ... , ONE WEEK ONLY thru WED. MOHAWK MALL MADISON CINEMA-SCHENECTADY STAR TWIN -CINEMA-ME~ANDS THEATRE-ALBANY PLAZA 1 -1400 ALTAMONT AVE. ROTTERDAM n force lues defei Witf the 1 6-1 cclip of 7- TI inclu ('Jar Han r IJ t. I ~ I I I I --

is ith in ts. at f I. .. CONCORDIENSTS, Thursday, Ma.r 9. 1974 Pagg 11 Netmen defeat Hamilton 8- 1 The Union College tennis forces made it five in .a row on Tuesday with a l'esounding 8-l defeat of highly touted Hamilton. With three inatches remaining, the record stands at a formidable 6-1 with the opportunity to eclipse last year's best-ever mar;k of 7-1 looking promising. The squad's victory streak includes victories over Siena, Clark, Albany State, and Hamilton at home, and Harper uil the road. U niQn is once again ruler of the Capital District tennis scene by virtue of its 8~ I drubbing of Siena and 5-4 defeat ·of Albany. Cembining those victories with the opening win over R . P . I. gives Union its third consecutive Capital District crown. Perhaps the biggest win ~o date was recorded last Wednesday when the Garnet squeezed by a 12-and-1 Clark tearn, 5-4. Singles • victories were recorded by juniors 'Crawford, Rakoczy, and Wayne. In the doubles Rakoczy and Senior Jack Lauroesch took the number . one c<mtest and then Crawford and Wa:rne made it a perfect day with an exciting and hard-fought 7-fJ, 7-5 clincher on the windswept gym courts. The Union racketmen pmved their ability on the road with a \ictory over a gritty Harper squad by a 6-3 margin. Once again the singles were split with Crawford taking the number one match, 7- 6, 6-3. Jack Lauroesch and frosh Steve Marcus the11 came through with hard-fought three-set wins to even the match. The Garnet then ~wept the deubles to clinch the match in convincing fashion. Leading the 'Union forces this spring with 6-and-1 records have been captain Kevin Crawford, \who has captured five straight, and Steve Ma.rcus, whose only fall was against Clark. Roman Rakoczy and Jack Lauroesch have teamed to pose a formidable number one doubles team, as yet undefeated. Jurnior Steve Wayne has contributed clutch victories in hath singles and doubles as have Dennis Lindenberg and seniors Paul Donkontt and Tim \the cannon\ Moran. The team next visits Bard College on Thursday before returning home to face Hobart on Saturday in the final home match .of the year. The following Tuesday, Coach Ed Tornga's _ squad will travel to Middlebury for the season finale and hopefully will avenge last year's lone defeat. - Roman Rakoczy does his son!J·and-dan.ce before the Nipple. photo credit CliffLan)!Weiler r ---- . -----------:Ll 1 fltlch l /bin! 1/ermonf 1 I ·expert iilstructitJR til the I I .tteni£ hills tJT Vermont 1 I I. DORM STYLE LODGIN'G AND ALL KElLS As well as being the final home match of the year, Saturday's 2:00 encounter with Hobart will be the last for many years to come. So, if you haven't seen a Unio~ tennis match, come out and take in the action. Tennis is fun to watch and with the fine team we have here at Union there's no excuse for not coming, even if it's just for a little while. See you Saturday at 1:00 WOMEN•s INTRAMURAL SOFTBALL STANDINGS AS OF MAY 1 Richmond 2 Fox 2 ·West 2 ·.North Richmond 4 • Fox 3 West 3 Richmond 3 4 and 0 3 and 0 2 and l 2 and I I and 2 0 and 3 0 and 3 0 and 2 ATTENTION ARCHERY ENTHUSIASTS: Archery Championship to be held May 24, Friday at 3:30 on Daley Field. The Columbia Round will be used which is 24 arrows at 50 yds . ., 24 arrows at 40 yards, and 24 arrows at 30 yards. All Archers Welcome. I JULY 7-27 --$450--LIMITED ENROLLMENT I . I I WRITE-~THE MirWS EYE WORKSHOP I Dave's'Me111 Shop· CHATEAV ECOLE, PI:TTSFO~ .. VT.· 05763 I . .f53·SbteSt 1 I --(downtown Sc~y) ----~-------~---- ~--~,-------·· DARI- TREET Steak Dinner Special Baked Potatoe, & Cole Slaw. Peas or Corn. $2.80 \Student Discount\ (with J.D.) '113 ~UA..NY ST. No deliven cnarRe with two ·8 cut pizzas. MDILlVU mrm. NIDNIGHT CaDi7o1-5611 Hamilton. Crav.:ford's record stands at 6-1. photo credit Cliff Langweiler Baseball Continued from Page : 2 southpaw Noah Paley on the mound. Paley pitched with authority for the opening six frames, but as the game progressed he tired and was replaced by another freshman, Charlie Flanagan, who came in with no outs and the bases loaded and retired the side without a run. Union had a chance at the \ictory, tallying a run in the ninth and giving them a short-lived 5-4 lead. Norwich, however, countered with a run in the hottorn half of the same inning to knot the score at five all and send the contest into OT. Neither team :-.cored in the tenth, but, in the eleve.nth, two walks and a hit loaded the bases and set the stage for the grand slam which ended the affair. ll. Coli. lost ag~in on Sunday to Siena, 8-6. Errors in the field allowed Siena to jump off to a 6-<J lead after two innings. The Dutchmen had to play \catch up\ hall the rest of the way. They rallied, scoring 3 runs in the fourth and 3 runs in the sixth. (ireg Breedlove led the way with two extra-base hits, knocking in two runs. Ron Westbrook, Gary Horgese, and Rolf Wandel each pounded out 2 hits also. Joey Urschel pitched well again, but is showing signs of tiredness. Union again left potential runs standing on base. It was a tough one to lose-the club wanted the victory! The squad got just that two days later in a 7-6 win over Hamilton. Disregarding the snow that fell for a couple of innings and the cold temperature, Steve Stockman \pitched a good game.\ According to Lawrence, \The defense was the key; there was not one error. We are now beginning to gel.\ The Garnet's inning was the second, when nine men went to the plate aryd four runs scored. The big blow was Gene Quirk's hooming triple knocking in 3 runs. Quirk ended the game with J hits, while Breedlove, Don Milder, Lou Miller, and Borgese each clipped in two. Perhaps the Dutchmen are now putting it all together. They are always in every game. If the aforementioned inconsistencies can be ironed out. a better than .500 campaign can alm0st be assured. . Cabaret Continued from Page I vital can he reali7ed. For those who play solo instruments-pian<J. guitar. etc.- or have small groups needing a place to plav their kind of music for a live audience_ the Caharet is a ready-made spot. The Caharet will have the audience in mind as this is not a place where the audience wi II stop doinf! when the performer hegins. Af times, there will be more formal entertainment like skits and musical groups, but the basic idea is a free nightclub thinf!. loose and tahle-hopping, with somethin!! for everybody. The Union Cabaret is a 1920's French cafe at the student's level. for and bv the students. and made for the student's budget: finallv something created by the students here exclusivelv with the student's eniovment -in mind. Now is the time to /):et out and give that talent vou usuallv hide to someone else besides. your roommate and parents by giving it to the student community at the Union Cabaret. Oh yes, even if vou're still bashful. _get over to the C'aharet here that Toulouse- l.a utrec would ·have loved. And bring a friend. , ++-to:Holl • u l ....... t • ..,. ....... William Fenton, Professor of Anthropology at Albany State, will be the 3rd of 4 speakers for the Comp Ed American Indians course. Regarded as a preeminent ~hite authority on Indian culture, he will likely be speaking on a related topic Wednesday, May 15. 10:30 A.M. in Strauss Lounge. \A QUIET BAR .•. A PLACETO TALK .. THE Red Fox Inn PI.ZZA FRIDAY&. SATURDAY 5-12 P.M. BUD BY THE PltCHER 113 JAY ST. SCHENECTADY· ' -. . •

Page 12 CONCORD!ENS/S, Thursday. May 9, 1974 --~--------------~------·--------~~------~--~--~~--~~~~~--~------~--~~----------~------~ Lax continue to Roll with 6 straight by FRANCO ISGRO A relentless offense backed by a sturdy defense and an aggressive mid-field propelled the Union · l.axmen to their 8th win of the season, as they swallowed visiting Colgate 14..:5, yesterday on Daley Field. Last Wednesday the Garnets nipped host Trini~y 1'5-'13, behind the efforts of freshman John rhompson who had four goals and two assists and Robert <irossrnan wh0 tallied twice and contributed six assists. Co-captain Dennis Walker and Dori Ward each tallied twice. Jim Thom- pson, Steve G\lllans, Charlie Howe, and Bt~b Gra bt~ all had one goal each fer the victorious Garnets. In Loudonville last Saturday, the Dutchmen downed an improved Siena ·squad 11-7, to unoffically capture the- Capital District Championship. All- American_ Walker collected six goals and one asf?ist while teammate Grossman had one tally and four assists. Scoring once for the victors were Steve Gullans, Don Ward, John Thompson, and Jerry Dwyer. Senior co-captain Dave Hochschartner sparked the defense along with Garofalo and Garone. assisted by Grossman with eight minutes left in the period. One minute later, Walker shot in his fifth - goal assisted by Charlie Howe. Colgate finally got on the scoreboard after ten minutes. of play, Then Steve Gullans scored his. third goal of the season on an assist by .John Thompson. Middie Stan O'Brien opened the scGting in the second period beating the goalie to the inside of the the goalpost on an unassisted play to ta-lly his first of the season. Seco11ds later Colgate scored its second goal. Freshman John Thompson ·took the last scoring shot of the period t0 up the score to 9'-2 at the end. of the first half. Grossman opened the {hird period scoring on an unassisted play with 25 seconds gone on the dock. Charlie Howe on an assist from Jim Thompson upped the score to 11-2. Dennis Walker scored his six.th goal With less than nine minutes left, again assisted by Grossman. years. When C0ach Allison was asked by Concordy wht;ther he had any tough games left, he seriously replied that \every game i~ a tough game. You start thinking otherwise and you .get your ·feather plucked.\ After having coached the Union Lax team for almost two decades, that advice carries some unquestioned authority. Saturday the squad travels to meet host Hamilton. and next Wednesday the team is back in Daley Field for the last home game of the season against Wesleyan. CllRRENT STATISTICS Dennis Walker Robert Gross man John Thompson Den Wa.rd Charlie Howe Jim Thompson Steve Gullari.s Hruce Davis Jerry Dwyer Stan O'Brien Carl Walker Mark Walsh Bob Grabo ·Goals ]7 16 20 II 7 3 .'\ 2 2 2 I I I 7 42 H -~ I 3 ' . 2 GOALIE SAVES AI Ritchie Steve Haddad 73 67 • The Broom and the Hammer watch the·meet. Yesterday's game against Colgate University showed the fans how much the team has improved throughout the season. The squad, following Coach Allison's philosophy, is playing a relentless and aggressive game. The midfield a,gain has shown great improvement in correlating defense and 'offense. In the founth period, Colgate outscmed Union 4-3, as some new faces were seen in the ·Garnets' squad. Freshman John Eklund saw some solid action. He had a couple of good attempts but failed to get on the scoreboard. Stan O'Brien, who played one of his finest games of the season, tallied for the second time early in the period. Dennis Walker, who opened the sc()ring streak for the Garnets. also scored the last goal, assisted by Grossman, to lead the Garnets to a final 14-6 victory. Track WinS Finale to end 6-1 Dennis Walker played a very impressive first half, scoring the first four goals on three assists from Grossman and one from .John Thompson. Walker put the Garnets on the scoreboard with only 17 seconds gone in the clock. Don Ward upped the score to 5-0 M;ike Garone played an excellent defensive game, along with Bill Garofalo and Dave \Hoch.\ Goalie AI Ritchie had 9 saves, while Steve Haddad was ~redited with seven. With three games left, the Garnets are headed for a berth in the ECAC Tournament_ and one of the' finest seasons in recent by ALISON SLOAT After picking up two wins in a double dual meeting with Roche~ter and St. Lawrence last Monday, the Garnet thinclads finished out the week with an 82- 63 victory over Hamilton on Wednesday and -an 84-61 hetterment of Trinity on Saturday. Junior Bill Mowery gathered up wins in the shot put on both occasions. With a 51' 3W' heave be broke the current school record which he has held since his freshman year. Mark Scheuer ended regular season boasting an undefeated effort in the 440-yd. intermediate hurdles with wins in both meets, 57.8 and 58. L Also remaining undefeated, co-captain Dave Ricks vaulted 12' and 13' to capture the event both days. Ricks also picked up a win in the 440 versus Hamilton (52.6) and a second behind Je~f Broomes at rrinity (50.9). Garnet drop two of ·three The mile relay squad (Scheuer, Hroomes, Mindel, and_ Ricks) marked the end of a very consistent season winning with 3:30.4 and 3:30.1. Mindel also picked up a win in the 880 versus lfinity and a second in the mile a~ Steve Jones won the event in 4:24.1 and Stank Wiskoski claimed third for the Dutchman sweep. Jones and Wiskoski returned to take first and second in the two-mile, the win in 9:47.3. b~ HANK BERNSTEIN ·the Garnet nine continued to exhibit inconsistencies this past week in dropping two of three hallgames. This leaves U. Coil. with an overall 4-6 record, not including yesterday's contest against R Pl. The inconsistencies referred to include untimely hitting (i.e., leaving too many men on base) and fielding lapses, which produce a number of unearned runs. Even the pitching staff, which has been solid throughout the campaign, Is ~uffering from fatigue and inexperience. \We're in all the games, though,\ commented Coach Lawrence. \We've lost three games by one run, an eleven-inning game (on a grand slam home nm), and two games hy two runs. We're not gonna be heaten badly by anyone!\ The Dutchmen just have been unable to make everything click regularly --- ~ LeVI'S . .,..,, ..... ,. ....... t-...e._ Sunday, May 12 is Mothers Day. Surprise her with a lovely pen dan~ or charm from Graubart and Sons to mark the (}Ccasion \Serving Schenectady for 3 Generations thus far this season. l.ast Wednesday, for example, Union follnd itself ontheshort side of a 9-5 score in its first extra-inning game of the season. This was against Norwich in Connect-icut, with freshman Continu~:d on Page II Against the Continentals of - Girls Track Jumps Hurdles \Where is the rest of your team?\ \This is. it,\ was the reply of the five-member women's track team, Tuesday, May 7th at Albany State, where they competed against the host team and Fitchburg State (Mass.), each of which had 25-mernber teams. This was the first time Union's women have competed in an all- women's meet. Although Union had only enough competitors for four of the eleven events, · each entry scored. In the shotput, Louise Dunn threw 25' 10Y4\ to cop third. In the 440 relay, the team of Nancy Nelson, Barb Dewey, Laura Skinner, and Susan Harp rambled to a second place finish with a 60.25 time. Nancy -Nelson also sprinted to a fourth in \1he I 00-yatd dash with a time of 13.2, while Barb Dewey ran a 13.5 for sixth. In the final event entered by a Union competitor, Sue Harp raced for a close third in the 220- yard dash, turning in a 30.2 performance. Earlier in the season, during the men's dual meet with Middlebury, several Union co-eds competed against their Middlebury eo!lnterparts. in several races. An exciting 330-yard dash was won hy Susan Harp, who beat her competitor by .I seconds with a time of 44.5. !\ fleet-footed Middlebury runner captured the I OO~yard dash with the time of II. 7 and was closely followed by · Sue Harp for second and Denise Long for third.- Even though Union's women were outnumbered five to one, their presence was felt. And this is only the ·beginning .... Golf Soph. Brian .Ziegler (Woodmere, N.Y.) sunk a 20- foot putt on the 18th hole to give Union a 4-3 team decision over RPI. Senior Bob Gronauer (Briarcliff Mapor, N.Y.) was Dutchman medalist in that match with a 79. Sophomore Dave Papa (Albany) shot an 87, the best in the wind for Union, as the Dutchmen split Saturday, beating host Utica by ~me stroke but losing to Oswego State. Ha.milton, junior John De Stefano captured the win in the long jump (20' 4Y2\) but later pulled a hamstring while triple- jumping, forcing him to- miss action on Saturday in hopes of repairing in time for the state meet. In his absence, Mike Cortez, Da-ve Ricks, and ..,Brad Patterson scored for U niou in the jumps. Freshman Rich Norman was s(ill another douh-le winner with javelin throws 179'3\ and 170'. ·Together with Muscle Mowery, team point-s- were collected in the discus versus Hamilton, with Mowery's winning fling 132' 6\. In the sprints, Milt Herring fired through a lOA 100-yd. dash to a win on Wednesday and a 23.4 220 for another on Saturday. Frosh Alden Shennan was missed at both meets, having fallen victim to a muscle pull similar to Johnny De. fhis weekend qualifiers from the team will travel to Colgate University to compete in the State Championships. INTRAMURAL TRACK Men's and Women's Intramural Tract\ Meet - 4:30, Tuesday, May 14th, the · running events - 100 yd. dash, 440 yd. run, 220 yd. dash, 440 yd. relay, mile relay. 4:30, Wednesday, May 15th, shot put, high jump, long jump, 120 yd. I(}W hurdles. No Spikes All.,wed. A man or woman can enter 3 events -two running and one field event, or two field and one running event. At least six contestants from each house mus:t .compete in order to gain e11trance points and be eligible to win the trophy. Entries will be taken on the field. Five places in each event - 6, 4, 3, 2; l No one who h3S been. on the current freshman or varsity track squad is: eligible or anyone who has had coaching · this spring. Anyone who is or w~s on any spring spo.-rts squad is ineligible. No Block \U\ winners in track. Ji ' . ea -- - c a E e b 1 s f a a t :l t l ( ! j I

De the of ike the the , • ing a ay. len 's o, y. 3 m ty is in Johmy, we -love you. Pleue • · eaR 'home, co!leet if necessary. \To he great is to be misunderstood,., Help move books into the new Hbnry. Sign up today, at the circulation desk. Vol. >{,03, No. 21 Thursday, May 16, 1974 35 cents The Lively Lodge The cars were fast, the ladies faster. Life was a game and money .a t:oy. Men were men and womtin were whatever they damn well pleased to be. A genet.a·tion intoxicated with the fleeting pleasures of youth, btowing no past, seeking no future. sci .the band played; the liquor flowed, and the party raged on, desperately avoiding a closing curtain. it maintains numerous and colorful captions, rhis era. But to those who ga;ze back upon tile time with a blend of fondness, envy_ and fuzzy memories, it is best remembered as .the Roaring Tweh·ties, the heyday of speakeasies and bathtub gin, or flappers and foUy, t·icker tapes and hip flasks, of spats and .sports and of ja~z and the chadeston. On May I 8, Chi. Psi brings back the fun, fireworks, and good times of the Roaring Twenties as the Lodge announces its second annual Spring Happening. o'n that night, the entire Lodge will be transformed into a living re- creation of the 1920's, complete with a speakeasy and an old-time gambling halL The lively sound of jazz and swing, as performed by a big band will play the ballroom. Pre-Reg Throughout the evening, plenty of beer and the Lodge's own bathtub )?in will be available. But before you mugs can attend. the Manag\!ment says you gotla satisfy a few requirements. rhat ineans you purchase a ticket, first. The donation is two dollars and the boss don't wan·t no grief, understand. So cough up the dough and shaddup.. It's for a \N<lrthy cause ya· see ( f1le ~ at i on a I H e mop h il i a Foundation) and Al don't take too kindly to you mugs chintzing on charity. That ain't class and Al only likes class people. Another thing, since this here party is gonna be a special affair, .everyone's gotta dress smooth-guys and dames. A few of my boys will be checking at the door. The Management has als0 decided to give out a few prizes for the best costumes. Now iistert. t.ast year a lot of bums from uptown got into the party, somehow. The.y're all at the bottom of the Mohawk now, but a new gang has taken their spot. Now the boss don't want none of them mugs at the party so he's wisely decided to limit admiss.ion to 800 people (last year 1200 showed up) and probably no admissions at the door. Tickets go on sale Monday. So see .any of the boys and we'll try to fix ya' up. The Cabaret room and crew by BILL VALLEE Tonight, May 16, from 9 until 2 a.m., is the celebration of the Union Cabaret's op~ning night, free to all comers. Refreshments will be served (also free) during the entire evening: beer, peanuts, ~:heese. The show itself will run 1\rom I 0 until midnight and will feature Steve Hopkins on guitar and piano, and. selections from the musical Hair, which will be performed by . the Mountebanks photo by Leslie Steineker May 31-June 8 in the Nott. Continuous music will provide you future Hemingways with that cafe atmosphere you've been seeking for so long. It is advised that you get there early to find a good spot inside though the music and refreshments will be served throughout the Student Center, if need be. In the future, the Union Cabaret will evolve into the nightclub which it is slated to become: a small admission price, a limited house (approximately 60 people per show and two shows per eveNing), and refreshment charges. These charges will be used to help provide the kinds of entertainment that will make the Union Cabaret a vibrant and exciting place to enjoy a night in Schenectady. Pre-registration · materials for fall term 1974-75 will be available at the Office of the Registtar, Room 2, Administration Building, beginning Monday, May 27th. Stufents .are urged to promptly secure their copy of these materials. Students who do not plan tQ return to Union for the fall term, except for graduating seniors, should also report and give notice of their p.lans. Bonner Speaks lo Boston Alums by BILL TALIS maintenance and renovation of Just another reminder to all you closet-talents who have always wanted to play your instrument without formality in . the act, or you singers who finally worked- out a few numbers with your roommate. This is your chance to perform without the pressures of a strict listening audience; playing on the cafe stage can only help you, and the Cabaret can certainly use your talent. Students should confer with Faculty Advisers during the four days of May 27-31. Some departments may amiounce special arrangements for advising. Please be alert for such announcemeQts. Course requests are d_ue at the Office of the Registrar not later than Monday, June 3rd. A ten dollar ($10.00) late fee will be assessed thereafter. President Bonner talks on plans for Union. Union Must Comply This fall. the Office for Civil Rights will conduct its biennial survey of institutions of higher education. Each institution that receives. is an applicant for, or expects to be an applicant for Federal financial assistance as defined in the Regulation under Title VI of the Civil Rights Act of 1964 or under any · Regulation implementing Title I X of the Education Amendments of 1972 will be requested to report student enrollment by selected minority groups. For practical purposes this irwolves all institutions in the United States. i\ne'luding Union College. lhe f.·ederal directive states: \In order ~o provide reasonably accurate data. the institutions may require students to complete a 4uestionnaire andror identify themselves by name or otherwise when providing information.\ !he Registrar's Office wishes to avoid a long 4uestionnaire: therefore it will use a simple self- identification form to allow each student to identify his or her t:thnic ong1n. The self- identification form will be included in the fall term registration packet in September 1974. This additional registration re4uest does hot originate with ll nion College: it is necessary to provide the College with information from which the re.quired compliance report may he constructed. Dr. Thomas N. Bonner, present assets. President-elect of Union College, Research Trends urged flexibility of resources in planning for Union's future during the 1970s and '80s. Speaking before an enthusiastic Boston Alumni Association on Friday, May 10, Bonner praised Union's policy of limited tenure. \Tenure he said, \locks in resources and makes it difficult to ~ h i f t e m p h.a s i s w i t h i n departments. To meet new trends in education, I would anticipate and welcome shifts within departments.\ At the University of New Hampshire. where he has served as President since 1971, over $3 million was shifted within .departments to meet changing student needs. Union Underrated In discussing his application as President to Union, Dr. Bonner stated, \I knew little about the school before I ,investigated it. Union is not as well known as it ought \to be. We have a high caliber of graduates, a first-class faculty, and an impressive student body.\ Bonner hopes to embark nn a program that would gain wider recognition for Union's achievement. citing greater and inore effective use of public relations as an instrument of informing the public about Union's capabilit·ies as a \top- notch educ:ational institution.\ Stabilize G.rowth Dr. Bonner stated that he hoped to maintain the present size of the College. \For. the size of the College to grow beyond present size would defeat the un i4ue advantage of the relationship between students and faculty.\ Dr. Bonner expressed the desire of leveling off capital development, with emphasis ~hifting from growth to the .. \We should determine why students who are accepted to Union may go elsewhere for their education,\ Bonner pointed out, \to see if we are meeting the demands for education.\ Little research in this area has been done. Bonner cited the increasing trends toward career education. \There is less influence on liberal arts than a decade ago. This has been demonstrated in the success of the community college and technical school movements.\ Bonner supports these trends, but does not believe in the elimination of liberal arts education for, \it is the core of a well-rounded education.\ Bonner prais~d Union's curriculom as being \relevant a century before education was defined in relevant terms.\ Last Frontier' Dr. Bonner expressed the fear for the well-being of private education in America, citing the slowing growth in private support, and the decline of private institutions in recent years. Bonner warned that, \Our mission must be well defined if an institution is to ga.in support.\ To gain alumni support, Dr. Bonner proposed a reversal of seeking general support. \We shall seek support for specific objectives. which will give the alumni a sense of participation in moving the College in a particular direction.\ Dr. Bonner, who takes over as President in July, hopes to extensively research Union's present development, and formulate and implement specific programs which will see Union grow in the quality of education and sense of community. This campus desperately needs a new form of gathering; too often the men and women here complain of having to go elsewhere just to meet other Union co-eds. A · ridiculous paradox? Sure, but here's the best thing for Spring '74-9 p.m., every Thursday night. Room 101 in the Student Center. Union College Community Affairs: : Saturday, May 25 Calvin_ Anderson sponsors a picnic and open discussion at the Girting Center, 10:00 a·.m.- 5:00p.m. FROSH FROLIC AND FLICK!!!!! The Freshman class along with the Orientation Committee sponsor .... SUPER SATURDAY 3:00 p.m., Student/Faculty softball 5:30 p.m., Barbecue outside of West College (Saga meal tickets honored) 9:30 p.m.-1:00 a.m., Dance at Library Plaza featuring The Edward Fox Blues Band, plus: Free Beer and Popcorn. In addition, a band will be playing during the afternoon in Library Plaza. As an added early attraction .•. Friday at 11:00 p.m. at Library Plaza, The Mar:x Brothers in Duck Soup, and a Road Runner cartoon.

.CONCORDIENSJS, Thursday, May 16, 1974 Page2 Editors-in-chief ...................... Judv Dein, Bill Talis News Editor ................................ ~ ..... Geoff Taylor Culture Editor ...................................... Pete Sobol Sports Editor ....... ~ ...... ~ ....... ~ ............... Bart Mercer Photo Editors .............................. Leslie Steineker. , · ' Cliff Lani!Weiler Copy Editor ....................................... Phil Alcabes Foreij!n Corespondent ................ Rob Mondschein Blitherinf! Editor ........................ , ... Chris O'Connor Business Editor ................................. Alan Gnessin National Advertisinj! .......................... Steve Kelley Subscriptions Editor- .............................. Lisa.Tietz Coneordiensis is published every Thursday by the student body of Union Colle!!e. Old Gym Hall. Schenectady. N.Y .• Publications Office. The Jewish World Publications. 771 State St. Schenectady, N.Y. 12307 (346-2356). Entered in the Schenectady Post Office as Second Class Matter. Subscription Rate 35 cents per copy. $8.00 a vear delivered anvwhere in the United States. Deadline for copy is Tuesd~y 5:00 -P~ M. Town Meetings Sign Search .Editors, Concordiensis: How will we ever be recognized without signs in front qf Old Gym Hall? The party's over, please return as soon as possible. Than~ you, Mrs. Marra * * * * Lax Attax 'Editors~ -Concordiensis: On Monday, May 6, there was a meeting to decide whether Jerry Garcia's name would appear on the ballot. Till 1 witnessed the usurpation of power and the stupidity· that Brown and his Steering Committee displayed at tha.t meeting I had no intention of voting for Garcia. I was in favor, h ewever, of placing Garcia's name on the ballot because there was no legal reason not to. His petition was as valid as that of .any other candidates. The result ()f the meeting was simple: first, the Committee members decided \Despotic president!\ \Unresponsive government!'\ that they had t.he authority to \Arbitrary power!\ No, these comments were not made in decide whether the name should reference to the United States government, but that of the appear on the. ballot or .not; and . . . . . then they decided that It should Umon College student gover.nment. The Steermg Com~1ttee, not. Afterwards, 1 knew I'd vote composed of two representatives from each class, a president, for Garcia. vice president and a secretary are viewed by many as the only We could pass by these and legitimate means through which students can allocate their Dther election atrocities, for now, values authoritatively (as some \poly sci putzes\ would say). and turn to the most outrageous Th T M · · h C · · 1 1 · h · move of all : the tot a I e own eetmg 1s t e onstltutiOna a ternatlve t. at 1s d' l\f' t' f 11 f Ga c·a·s 1 . . . 1sq ua 1 1ca ton o a o r fatrly easy to call, and IS open to all dtsenchanted students. votes. Surely, not even the Brown There are two methods by which a Town Meeting may he Committee would deny the right called. The first way is to have three members of the Steering to equal ,suffrage. Implicit in such Committee ask for a Town Meeting. The second method is to equality !s that each_ and every make a petition calling for a Town Meeting have it signed by vot~ carnes ~qual weigh~. . . , ' . I he ElectiOn Committee, by 200 ~tudents, a~d subm1~ It to the Steenng C:ommtttee. 'Th.e not .acknowledging the Garcia Steermg Committee must then call a Town Meetmg. votes. flagrantly ignored equal The Town Meeting is presided over by the Steering suffrage, and virtually told the Committee President, but this is the extent of his powers. There st)Jdents ~afterwards I. m!ght add) is no quorum necessary for voting at a Town Meeting. All that thea votes didn t c_ount . . unless they voted for a candtdate students who are present .each have one vote, and maJOrity they officially sanctioned! In rules. All laws passed by th1s body have the same force as those reality, two-hundred and eighty- of the Steering Committee. 'five students didn't cast \less To those who speak of protest votes which have little equal\ votes; .by the Committee constructive value for actually improving the present system, stan~ards, t~etr vot~s. co~nted for . . . nothmg as 1f they d1dn t vote at Beware! The Umon College student government ConstitutiOn all !!! • ·was written by people who believed in democracy. The town Obviously something is very Meeting is open to all who seek change, to those who wish to wrong. Garcia's votes were legal improve the school and do not see the Steering Committee student v?tes that .. should b_e accomplishing this goal. tabulated. m _the offlctal count 1f The challenge is made. It is e.asy to make an ~lection int~ a ~:~id~~~~tlon 18 to even approach sham. But, to go beyond this and accomplish ~omethmg Ti~le Ill, section c. Paragraph constructive takes thinking and planning. Jerry Garcia, if you J of the Student Government were wronged, make it right. Constitution states: tJie.-editors To be elected, in all elections of Apologium The caption ofthe picture of Mark Maurer, which appeared on page four of last week's paper, was meant to convey no personal insult to Mr. Maurer. , Concordy apologizes for any such inference that might have 1! • 'been drawn. To all student activities . requesting money from student tax for 1974/75: Please submit proposed budgets for 1974/75 no later , than the eighth week of this term.· Budget forms are available from Mrs. Marra and should be filled out in triplicate. Also, include an itemized account of all expenditures made this ye31' (tiscal\-73/'74). Each jpdividual purchase should be noted in addjtion to an.y money which might have been taken ·in. For assistance In doing this you may check your respective file in Mrs. Marra's office. Due to the indiscriminate additio.ns of club sports · particularly and various otlter activities all budgets for next vear must be trimmed. We ~uggest you do some of the trimming so we don't have to do it for you. Nicholas F. Coward Chairman, Tax Committee .... --· udent officers. a rna (50% Repairors return rotating rim. The women's. Caucus sponsored a Bike Workshop la~:t Saturday.· photo by Cliff Langweiler plus I) is necessary. Runnoffs will be held if necessary. · Committee's power.· FollGWille, this constitutional crisis was the meeting in Fox lounge on Monday, May 6. At this meeting certain members of the student government clearly trampled upon and usurped student rights. There is not a single reference to this meeting in the paper. Jeff Broomes only received some 37% of the vote .. Not only has the Election Committee ignored student Voting rights, but it has transgressed the Constitution as well. This is the same document that they claim to have been following when they, and the Brown Committee,. ma,de their decisions about the Garcia fiasco! The election has, at best, shaky grounds for validity. I cannot (nor c~n I see ?ow o~h~rs can) recogmze Jeff as President. He plainly hasn't satisfied the criteria called for in the Constitutien and no amount of illegal maneuvering. can change that. Howie Lax * * * * Goofball • Sadly, Concordy skirted the -important fact that 285 students voted for Garcia, he received more votes than a registered student. Combined with this figure must be the number of students that failed: to v:ote .at all. Such apathy can only be the result of a feeling that either the elections are such a farce that there is no point in participating, or that student government is so poor that voting is useless because nothing will improve it. Jeff Broomes; ~·majority\ consists of 16% of the student body. Editors, Concord!ensis: You do Garcia supporters a great disservice in your articles by labeling the Garcia: candidacy a farce. The vast majority of his supporters voted for him to protest a do-nothing system and to call for change. If Mr. Hr.oomes wants his presidency to obtain a semblance -of legitimacy, he must act now on the outcry for reform with the election laws and procedures an obvious starting point. More first-rate journalism ' and less second-rate humor by Concordy would also help to bring about the necessary reforms. ·~If the thunder don't get you, then the lightning will.\ The gleeflllly galloping goofball Mark Maurer * * * * Pres. Speaks Editors, Concordiensis: The elections are over, thank God for that!! Now we have new officers for a-lmost every elected office. Maybe now with the help and cooperation of the student body we can get something accomplished. The presidential elections were difficult and controversial, but I shall like to thank all of you who had enough faith in me to elect me to that office. Thank you. I know there have been a few claims that I was. elected with only 16.2% student body support. hut still I did better in this area than most others. Of those voted in by the entire student body only the At-Large Representative to the Senate received more student body support than me .. I realize my obligation to help reduce student apathy on this campus. Again, thank you very much for your votes and 1 also thank you Dave Heilberg. .:Thank you, Jeff Broomes, President, Steering Committee * * * * . Disappointment Editors, Concordiensis, I would like to express my deep disappointment over Concordy's coverage of this year's elections. There is but one article covering Instead of dealing with such consequential issues Corcordy chose instead to r.un an editorial entitled \Garcia Farcia.\ l was precent at the discussion between the author of the letter/ Candidate's statement and while the author admitted he was wrong in affixing the names of people to it without their consent, Concordy's editoTs admitted that they had used editorial license to take a candidate's statement and print it as a letter. While the author was wrong in his action he did so as an individual. Concordy's editors committed their act not as individuals but as editors of a newspaper and thus violated a student trust. Worse was the near libelous caption under the picture of Mark Maurer labeling him as goofball. While it was apparent that Concordy was not in sympathy with his views they had no right to make a mockery of them. He was as serious in his intentions as they were in theirs. Such practices leads one to question the qualifications of the editorial staff. Perhap~ the rnild natur~ of the paper and the skirting of issues is related to the fact that four members of the editorial staff, including an Editor-ln-C!iief, were running for office. There is a natural unconscious tendency to defend a-nything one is involved in. It is very difficult to declare the elections a farce, and student disatisfactio.n with tile -government, when one is .in pursuance of an office. A dissociation from the May 9 issue by these members was in order. What is at issue however, is not so much a letter/statement, libelous statements, or someone's dissociation, but the dissatisfaction of a vast number of students with the government, the election process, and the governing system. Disparagingly, this Concordy has ignored. · Editor's Note: Sincerely, Nelson Weil '76 Concordy dealt with the Garcia issue in two pages of material in last week's issue, which the editors felt presented the Issue fully and comprehensively, the election and the paper has ·, neglected the crucial issue of THE LIBRARY student dissatisfaction with the IS MOVING! government and the governing Yes, the library is moving. system. From the basement to the Both the headline and the Me-zzanine, from the front to · content of the article leave the the back, to make ready the reader with the impression that library for the opening of the this was a normal election: it was· new wing. This can only be not. The Garcia issue received -accomplished , through the only a brief mention and many of concerted efforts of both the events that climaxed with library staff and students. Sign · Tuesday's write-in vote are left . up sheets are now available at undisclosed. First there was no ·the library's circulation desk clarification of conflicting reports for all those with the initiative ahout the Election Committee and desire to help. There are,, meeting Sunday night, May 5. Li nfortuha te ly. plenty of ·Certain members of the openings on a number of Committee charged that Larry different days, Sign up soon. Brown entered the meeting. :Wo<lF+Hot+\'+\l+i\loJI\i.\f.-..HoH+++++ uninvited and usurped the· ' ·~-,....

CONCORDIENSIS, Thursday, May 16, 1974 Page2 You Said It! Editors-in-chief ...................... Judv Dein, Bil'l Tal,is News Editor ............................... .\ ...... Geoff Taylor Culture Editor ...................................... Pete Sobol Sports Editor ...................................... Bart Mercer Photo Editcm; .............................. Leslie Steineker, · Cliff Lanp:weiler Copy Editor ....................................... Phil Alcabes Foreil!n Corespondent ................ Rob Mondschein Blitherinl! Editor ........................... Chris O'Connor Business Editor ................................. Alan Gnessin National Advertisinl! .......................... Steve Kelley Subscriptions Editor- .............................. Lisa.Tietz Concordiensis is published every Thutsday by the student body of Union College. Old Gym Hall. Schenectady. N.Y .. Publications Office. The Jewish World Publications. 771 State St .. Schenectady. N.Y. 12307 (346-2356). Entered in the Schenectady Post Office as Second Class Matter. Subscription Rate 35 cents per copy. $8.00 a vear delivered anywhere in the United States. Deadline for copy is Tuesdav 5:00P.M. Town Meetings \Despotic president!\ \Unresponsive government!\ \Arbitrary power!\ No, these comments were not made in reference to the United States government, but that of the Union College student government. The Steering Committee, composed of two representatives from each class, a president, vice president and a secretary are viewed by many as the only legitimate means through which students can allocate their values authoritatively (as some \poly sci putzes\ would say). The Town Meeting is the Constitutional alternative that is fairly easy to call, and is open to all disenchanted students. There are two methods by which a Town Meeting may be called. The first way is to have three members of the Steering Committee ask for a Town Meeting. The second method is to make a petition calling for a Town Meeting, have it signed by 200 students, and submit it to the Steering Committee. The Steering Committee must then call a Town Meeting. The 1\own Meeting is presided over by the Steering Committee President, but this is the extent of his powers. There is no quorum necessary for voting at a Town Meeting. All students who are present each have one vote, and majority rules. All laws passed by this body have the same force as those of the Steering Committee. To those who speak of protest votes which have little constructive value for actually improving the present system, Beware! The Union College student government Constitution was written by people who believed in democracy. The town Meeting is open to all who seek change, to those who wish to improve the school and do not see the Steering Committee accomplishing this goal. The challenge is made. It is easy to make an election into a sham. But, to go beyond this and accomplish something constructive takes thinking and planning. Jerry Garcia, if you were wronged, make it right. Apologium The caption of the picture of Mark Maurer, which appeared on page four of last week's paper, was meant to convey no personal insult to Mr. Maurer .. c·oncordy apologizes for any such inference that might have • been drawn. To all student activities requesting money from student tax for 1974/75: Please submit proposed budgets for 1974/75 no later than the eighth week of this term.· Budget forms are available from Mrs. Marra and should be filled out in triplicate. Also, include an itemized account of all expenditures made this year (fiscal'73/'74). Each individual purchase should be noted in addition to any money which might have been taken in. For assistance in doing this you rna} check your respective file in Mrs. Marra's office. llue to the indiscriminate additions nf club <;ports particularly and various other activitie<; all budgets for next ~car must be trimmed. We 'uggest you do some of the trimming o,o we don't have to t dn it for ~ou. Sign Search Editors, Concerdiensis: How wiH we ever be recogRized v. ithout signs in fron:t of Old ( iym Hall? The party's over, please return as soon as possible. Than.k you, Mrs. Marra * * * * Lax Attax Editors, Concordiensis: On Monday, May 6, there was a meeting to decide whether Jerry Garcia's name would appear on the baHot. Tit:l I witnessed the usurpation of power and the ~tl!lpidity · that Brown and his Steering Committee displayed at that meetiRg I had no intention of \oting for Garcia. I was in favor, however. of placing Garcia's name on the ballot because there v.a~ no legal reason not to. His petition was as valid as that of any other candidates. The result of the meeting was simple: first, the Committee members decided that they had the authority to decide whether the name should arrear on the ballot or not; and then they decided that it should not. Afterwards, I knew I'd vote lor Garcia. We could pass by these and other election atrocities, for now, and turn to the most outrageous move of a II: the total disqualification of all of Garcia's \.otes. Surely. not even the Brown Committee would deny the right to equal suffrage. Implicit in such equality ·is that each and every \Ole carries equal weight. I he Election Committee, by not acknowledging the Garcia \ otes. flagrantly ignored equal ~uffrage, and virtually told the ~tudents (afterwards I might add) that their votes didn't count unless they voted for a candidate they officially sanctioned! In reality, two-hundred and eighty- five students didn't cast \less equal\ votes; by the Committee ~tandards. their votes counted for nothing, as if they didn't vote at a II ! ! ! Obviously something is very v.rong. Garcia's votes were legal ~tudent votes that should be tabulated in the official count if the election is to even approach \ alidity. Iitle Ill. section C. Paragraph 3 of the Student Government Constitution states: I o be elected, in all elections of officers. a (50% \, khola'> Jo. Coward ( hairman, Tax ('ommittee Repairor.\ return rotatinR rim. 71le women's Caucus sponsored a Bike Workshop last Saturdar. photo b~· Clift !an!!weiler - piNs I) is Recessary. Runrwffs will Committee's power. FoHowu•t; this constitutional crisis was the he held if necessary. Jeff Broomes only received meeting in Fox lounge on ~ome 37li( of tile vote. Not only Monday, May 6. At this meeting has the Election Committee certain members of the student ignored student voting rights, lmt government clearly trampled it has t r a A sg res sed \he upon and usurped student rights. Cons tit uti on as well. This is fhe There is not a single reference to same document that they claim to this meeting in the paper. have been following wben they, • Sadly, Concordy skirted the and the Brown Committee, made important fact that 285 students their decis·ions a bout the Garcia voted for Garcia, he received fiasco! more votes than a registered The election has, at best, shaky student. Combined with this grounds for valiclity. 1 cannot figure mHst be the number of (nor can 1 see how others can) students that faHed to vote at all. recognize Jeff as President. He Such apathy can only be the plainly hasn't satisfied the criteria result of a feeling that either the called for in the ConstitNtion and elections are such a farce that no amount of iUegal manet1vering there is no point in participating, or that student government is so can change thaL Howie Lax * * * * Goofball l~ditors, ('oncordiensis: You do Garcia supporters a great disservice in your articles by labeling the Garcia candidacy a farce. The vast majority of his ~upporters voted for him to protest a do-nothing system and to call for change. If Mr. Broomes wants his presidency to obtain a semblance of legitimacy, he must act now on the outcry for reform with the election laws and procedures aR obvious starting point. More first-rate journalism and less second-rate humor by ('oncordy wo11ld also help to bring about the necessary reforms. \If the thunder don't get vou, then the lightning will.\ - The gleefully galloping goofball Mark Maurer * * * * Pres. Speaks Editors, Concordiensis: !'he elections are over, thank (iod for that!! Now we have new officers for almost every elected office. Maybe now with the help and cooperation of the student body we can get something ac'complished. !'he presidential elections were difficult and controversial, but I ~hall like to thank all of you who had enough faith in me to elect me to that office. Thank you. I know there have been a few claims that I was elected with only 16.29( student body support, hut still I did better in this area than most others. Of those voted in by the entire student body only the At-Large Representative to the Senate received more student body support than me. I realize my obligation to help reduce student apathy on this campus. Again, thank you very much for ~our votes and I also thank you Dave Heilberg. .'Thank you, Jeff Broomes, President, Steering Committee * *' * * . Disappointment Editors, Concordiensis, I would like to express my deep disappointment over Concordy's coverage of this year's elections. !'here is but one article covering the election and the paper has neglected the crucial issue of student dissatisfaction with the government and the governing ~ystem. Both the head line and the content of the article leave the reader with the impression that this was a normal election: it was not. The Garcia issue received nnlv a brief mention and many of the- events that climaxed with I uesday\ write-in vote are left und:sclosed Firq there was no clarification of conflicting reports ahout the Flection Committee meeting Sunday night. May 5. Certain members of the Committee charged that Larry Brown entered the meeting lllllll\ itcd and u~urred thL' poor that voting is useless because nothing will improve it. Jeff Aroomes' \majority\ consists of 16% of the student body. Instead of deal;ing with such consequential issues Corcordy chose instead to run an editorial ~ntitled \Garcia Farcia.\ I was precent at the discussion between the author of the letter/ Candidate's statement and while the author admitted he was wrong in affixing the names of people to it without their consent, Concordy's editors admitted that they had used editorial license to take a candidate's statement and print it as a letter. While the author was wrong in his action he did so as an individual. Concordy's editors committed their act not as individuals but as editors of a newspaper and thus \iolated a student trust. Worse was the near libelous caption under the picture of Mark Maurer labeling him as goofball. While it was apparent that Concordy was not in sympathy with his views they had no right to make a mockery of them. He was as serious in his intentions as they were in theirs. Such practices leads one to question the qualifications of the editorial staff. Perhaps the mild nature of the paper and the skirting of issues is related to the fact that four members of the editorial staff, including an Editor-ln-Cqief, were running for office. There is a natural unconscious tendency to defend anything one is involved in. It is very difficult to declare the elections a farce, and student disatisfaction with tne government, when one is in pursuance of an office. A dissociation from the May 9 issue hy these members was in order. What is at issue however, is not so much a letter I statement, libelous statements, or someone's dissociation, but the dissatisfaction of a vast number of students with the government, the election process, and the governing system. Disparagingly, this Concordy has ignored. · Sincerely, Nelson Weil '76 * * * * Editor's Note: Concordy dealt with the Garcta issue in two pages of material in last week's issue, which the editors felt presented the tssue fully and comprehensively. THE LIBRARY IS MOVING! Yes, the I ibrary is moving. hom the basement to the Menanine. from the front to the back, to make ready the library for the opening of the new wing. This can only be ·accomplished through the concerted efforts of both tihrary 'itaff and students. Sign up sheets are now available at the lihrary's circulation desk . lor all those with the initiative . and desire to help. There are,~ unfortunately. plenty of openings on a number of different days. Sign up soon. t ++++++++·t+++++++++...,J; I· ' ' t r r ! !( \i , I II I' II ..

the on dent to fhe this r of the the that is so use Jeff of such was tter I while ple to sent, that to and the on he as thus Mark that pathy right He as the rial the is four staff, is a to tile is .in e. A issue is not the umber d the rely, '76 Garcia in the ISSUe to the the be the both le at CONCORDIENSIS, Thursday, May 16, 1974 Page3 Last Dorm on the Left Senate Acts by PETE SOBOL It was a dark and stormy night the night I approached Webster. . Lightning arced through the menacing . . skY. and thunder pounded merctlessly, shaking the very ground upon Which I trod. The rain fell in torrents, and I began to wonder why I had come. The huge building now stood before me, leering down through faintly lit windows that told of some habitation. I climbed the steps to the massive front door, clutching under my coal the old Endocrine notes which I had braved the night and ihe storm to return. I tried the door, but it held fast and grimly denied me shelter from the storm. I pounded with my fist in ho,pes that one of the monks, coming down for a can of Coke, would hear me. aut the old place only sent the echoes of my knocks back to me in mocking laughter. I looked out to the street, wishing that one of the inhabitants would be returning, and be able to let me in, but all I could see W!lS the building across the street; the building with the inscription Funeral Home over the door, and the waiting face in the window. Terror overtook my soul and I screamed and pounded and clawed at the iron door. I cannot say how long I writhed in the throes of fear until one of the monks finally heard my cries and opened the door at last. Qp_inion: Special to Concordiensis The AU-College Senate met Tuesday in a session that ran for two hours. Following approval of the. millutes of the last meeting and the customary approval of ~purses recommended by · tfie C'urriculqr Affairs Coml'mttee, proposals caning for changes in the College Dog Policy, and an .tdjustment in next Fall's calendar ror Yom Kippur, were dealt with. The dog issue has a long history; en Tuesday, members of the Dog Court requested help in enforcing the dog laws; suggesting changes that might aid the implementation· of these laws. This led to the more general question of whether or not dogs should be allowed on campus. The Senate postponed a decision until its next meeting, June 6th. .The student representatives on the AH-Cellege Senate would welcome student opinion before this issue comes to a vote. Yom Kippur Vote • The last piece of legislation discussed was a proposal to cancel classes on Thursday, Sept. 26, which is.Yom Kippur, as well as the second day of Classes. The lost day would be made up on Nov. 27th by having a full day of classes. Arguments against the proposal were: a) Union is a secular institution and therefore should not recognize any religious holiday; b) that it would be disadvantageous to students who live a considerable distance from Schenectady; c) that it would encourage class cutting for the rirst week, and d) that it was an administrative decision, not the Senate's. Supporters of the proposal argued that the timing of t_he No sooner had he let me in than he disappeared through a little door in one corner of the hall. I managed to dash over and catch it before it swung closed, but when I had thrown myself through, he was gone. The hallway in which I now stood was lined with doors, all 'Closed. In one there was a small window. Peering through, I saw a stairway. The notes -f. had were to be returned to the third floor. I opened the door and began to climb the stairs. I was not halfway along the first flight when a sound reached my ears. \e-e-e-e-Clank !\ I looked behind me. The door had closed. I made my trembling way to the second floor.\'Neat the door I noticed a strange pile pf dust, and could barely make out scores of tally marks on the wall nearby. threw notes into. tne atr and ran down to the second floor door. It too would not yield. It was then . that ( heard. the laughter. Low, evil laughter that grew' with my terror. And then I saw them, the faces leering through the ~jndows· watching laughmg, wlutmg. My tortured mind could take no more, and I collapsed on a drawing of the pineal gland. Union Governance I thought nothing of it at the time. I reached the third floor door and grabbed the handle. lt would not turn. I clutched it with hoth my hands and turned with all the strength that fear could give me. It would not move! I \Wake up, are you out of y&lr !hind?\ H was my roommate. I was in my. own bed. \What happened?\' I asked. ''When did I get back?\ \Back?\ he said. \You never left. You got ready to return those notes and then you just fell asleep. You were screaming.\ So, I said to myself, it was all a dream. I reached into my coat pocket for the notes - They were gone. Relevant N onse.nse by LIZ PAVA The governance structure at Union is such that it allows for, encourages, input from students in many policy areas. However, following last week's elections, dormant reflexes to student politics will not be struck again for another year. Herein, I am suggesting that the absurdity of these el!!ctions, and to some degree committee appointments as . well, has its roots in the aura that campus politics has nurtured and cast upon those with any concern for involvement in the decision by PAUL LAZOR making process. Union College McDonalds?\ .. Goddamm, I was really hack politics are assumed to be in charged up!\ That was the There was o·nly one stumper all the hands of a select clique whose reaction of one inhabitant of evening, which concerned the fingers may be found in nearly fourth floor West to WRUC's actor who played Lumpy on every pot. Come spring, voters latest innovation, a two-hour \Leave it to Beaver.\ The answer and Committee on Committees trivia .contest which airs every is none other than the illustrious are confronted with continuing or Thursday evening from 8-10 p.m. Frank Bank. breaking this tradition. The show is the creation of Luke After one week, West is in first It must be pointed out that a Dillon, who heard of such shows place with twenty points, name well known is not at other schools, all of which followed closely by South and necessarily a sure shot, but often received a favorable reaction Fox. cause for criticisms of f h d b d E 'd 1 The contest continues rom t e stu ent o y. vt ent y 1notivations, cries of \power-pig.\ Union students are no different. Thursday night at 8:00 on And names unknown to all but a Dillon called the response WRUC · handful of diehard supporters \amazing 1 \ and expects even· loll ,.,._,~;;;;a...-....., ... ..,,....:...,.....,..-.-...a.-.._.. incur equally as vehement more interest in· the coming uQmplaints concerning what such weeks.· Union Colleg.e a candidate could expect ~o The contest works like this: Professor of civil engineering accomplish - no experience, no Dillon, or his counterpart Frank Herman B. Zimmerman has · connections, no status, etc. Bacher, throw out a trivia received a $22,000 National Campus politics are hence a question over the air, and the .Science Foundation grant for raradox; candidates are \da'mned first dormitory or fraternity to research on ocean if they are and damned if they call in with the correct answer sediment. Zimmerman will aren't.\ This simply leads scores a point. At the end of the analyze sediment core samples eventually to ineffective student term, the dormitory with the collected by the Lamont government. fostered by largest accumulation of points Geological Observatory in New insufficient general participation. will be \duly recognized,\ York. By examining sediment \obody likes to be a loser; and according to Dillon. What form layers, shifts in current and on this campus it is a peculiar sort the \recognition\ will take has climates can be charted and the that opts for embroilment in t·he n.ot yet been determined. The history of the ocean can be affairs of politics. Only an questions themselves encompass determined. In addition, eight insignificant number of a wide variety of trivia. Union undergraduates will candidates willingly committed views similar to· my ·own· regardless of his/ her general popularity - but where was a choice? To the 285 people who cast their votes for Jerry Garcia as a ''protest,\ I suggest that it might have been more effective and successful had a student run on a protest platform; a campaign to vote ror ''the abolition of student government,\ in its present form, or altogether, might have mustered further support, and totals might have been studied rather than dismissed. So the majority appears to remain dissatisfied with the outcomes of campus Continued on Page 4 holiday placed a particularly heavy decision on the shoulders of a second-day student; whether to observe his religion or go attend an important first lab. It was argued that this does not constitute a precedent for cancelling class on all religious holidays, rather it affirms the importance of the first week of classes for an incoming freshman. It was further argued that an institution such as Union has an obligation to meet the needs of its members, and and potential hardship for these students should be avoided. A last consideration was the possible ill feelings toWard Union on the part of perspective freshmen and their parents. The vote was 9-6 in favor of adjusting the fall schedule. The faculty and administration split 4- 5 against the proposal, while the student representatives voted 5-I for it. Voting for the change were Howie Mastroianni, Division I; Jonathan Levin, Div. II; Glenn Wolfson, Div. III; Robin Waring, Div. ·IV; and Jeff Broomes, Student President. Billy Henson, At-Large Representative, voted against the proposal. Award To Testroet Union College Assistant Professor of Classics Helen A. restroet has received a fellowship from the Dumbarton Oaks Center for Byzantine Studies to participate in a summer seminar in Washington, D.C. Prof. Testroet is one of 12 classicists from throughout North America selected for the program; which will focus on Greek Palaeography, the history of ancient Greek scripts. I'he six-week program begins June 25 and is being jointly sponsored by Dumbarton Oaks, the Mediaeval Academy of America, and the Catholic ll niversity of America and is supported in part by the National Endowment for the Humanities. Prof. Testroet a native of Manning, Iowa, joined the Union faculty m 1971, after earning her doctorate in classics from Harvard University. She is a graduate of the College of St. reresa in Minnesota and she taught Greek at Boston College H.S. before C()ming to Union. A former Woodrow Wilson .1-\ellow at Harvard, Prof. Testroet is currently serving as acting chairman of the Classics Department at Union . Last week Dillon came up with accompany Prof. Zimmerman in themselves to a stand on any of the following queries: \Who June on the Duke University this year's prevalent issues (e.g. played the title roles in the · research vessel, .. Eastward,\ in his grading and calendar), let alone television show \Pete and study of the sediment movement suggested some sort of goals for Evidence of Union's beautification program seems to be growing. Gladys\ and ''Where are the in the Atlantic Gulf Stream. next year. I would have been executive headquarters of sorely tempted to vote for \·irtually any candidate expressing photo by Leslie Steineker : ' •. ! •,'• 1

the on dent to the this r of all. the the that is so use Jeff of such rial was ween tter 1 to sent, that to and the he as thus Mark that pathy right He as the the is four staff, Cqief, re is a to the is in A issue is not the umber the cerely, •76 in the ISSUe ~! ! j I! u I ! ' I ~ I ~! , I l i! '! I , I II I' ll .. CONCORDIENSIS, Thursday, May 16, 1974 Page 3 Last Dorm on the Left Senate Acts Special to by P·ETE SOBOL It was a dark and stormy night the night I approached Webster. Lightning arced through the n1enacing sk_y and thunder pounded merctlessly, shaking the \ery ground upon which I trod. The rain fell in torrents, and I hegan to wonder why I had come. The huge bui.Jding now stead before me, leering down through faintly lit windows that told of sorn.e habitation. I climbed the steps to the massive front door, cllltching under my coat the old Endocrine notes which I had braved the night and the storm to return. I tried the door, but j,t held fast and grimly clenied me shelter from the storm. I pounded with my fist in hopes that one of the monks, coming down for a can of Coke, would hear me. But the old place only sent the echoes of my knocks back to me in 1nocking laughter. I looked out to the street, wishing that one of the inhabitants would be returning, and be able to let me i:n, hut all I could see was the building across the street; the huilding with the inscription Funeral Home over the door, and the waiting face in the window. Terror overtook my soul and I screamed and pounded and clawed at the iron door. I cannot say how long I writhed in the throes of fear until one of the m<>nks finally heard my cries and opened the door at last. No sooner had he let me in than he disappeared through a lit tie cloor in one corner of the hall. I managed to dash over and catch it before it swung closed, hut when I had thrown myself through, he was gone. The hallway in which I now stood was lined with doors, all closed. In one there was a small window. Peering through, I saw a stairway. The notes I had were to he returned to the third floor. I opened the door and began to climb the stairs. I was not halfway along the first flight when a sound reached my ears. ''e-e-e-e-Clank!\ I looked behind me. The door had closed. I made my trembling way to the second floor:Near the d <>Or I noticed a strange pile of dust, and could barely make out scores of tally marks on the wall nearby. I thought nothing of it at the time. I reached the third floor door and grabbed the handle. It would not turn. I clutched it with both my hands and turned with all the strength that fear could give me. It would not move! I threw the notes into tne atr and ran down to the second floor door. It too would not yield. It was then that I heard the Ia ughter. Low, evil laughter that grew' with my terror. And then I saw them, the faces leering through the ~jndo~s; watching 1 Ia ughmg, wattmg. !VIY tort urea mind could take no more, and I collapsed on a drawing of the pineal gland. \Wake up, are you out of y&lr mind?\ It was my roommate. I was in my own bed. \What happened?\ I asked. \'When did I get back?\ \Back?\ he said. \You never left. You got ready to return those notes and then you just fell asleep. You were screaming.\ So, I said to myself, it was all a dream. I reached into my coat pocket for the notes They were gone. Relevant Nonsense by PAUL LAZOR McDonalds?\ !here was o·nly one stumper all evening, which concerned the actor who played Lumpy on \Leave it to Beaver.\ The answer is none other than the illustrious l·rank Bank. After one week, West is in first place with twenty points, followed closely by South and Fox. The contest continues Thursday night at 8:00 on WRUC. photo by Cliff Langweiler Qp_inion: C oncordiensis rhe AJI-CoHege Senate met ruesday in a session that raA for two hours. FoHowing approval of the minutes of the last meeting and the customary approval of courses recommended by ·the C\urncular Affa1rs CommJUee, proposals calling for changes in the College Dog Policy, and an tdjustment in next Fall's calendar for Yom Kippwr, were dealt with. The dog issue has a long .l:tistory; oR Tuesday, members of the Dog Court requested help in enforcing the dog laws; suggesting changes that might aid the irnfJiementation of these laws. This led to the more general question of whether or not dogs should be allowed on campus. The Senate postponed a decision until its next meeting, June 6th. The student representatives on the All-College Ser.~ate would welcome student opinion before this issue comes to a vote. Yom Kippur Vote · The last piece of legislation discussed was a proposal to cancel classes on Thursday, Sept. 26, which is. Yom Kippur, as well as the second day of classes. The lost day would be made up on Nov. 27th by having a full day of classes. Arguments against the proposal were: a) Union is a secular institution and therefore should not recognize any religious holiday; b) that it would be disadvantageous to students who live a considerable distance from Schenectady; c) that it would e.ncourage class cutting for the lust week, and d) that it was an administrative decision, not the Senate's. Supporters of the proposal argued that the timing of the Union Governance by LIZ PAVA I\he governance structure at Union is such that it allows for, encourages, input from students in many policy areas. However, following last week's elections, dormant reflexes to student politics will not be struck again for another year. Herein, I am suggesting that the absurdity of these el~ctions, and to some degree committee appointments as well, has its roots in the aura that campus politics has nurtured and cast upon those with any concern for involvement in the decision making process. Union College hack politics are assumed to be in the hands of a select clique whose fingers may be found in nearly every pot. Come spring, voters and Committee on Committees are confronted with continuing or breaking this tradition. It must he pointed out that a name well known is not necessarily a sure shot, but often cause for criticisms of motivations, cries of \power-pig.\ And names unknown to all but a handful of diehard supporters 'iews similar to my own regardless of his' her general popularity - but where was a choice'? I o the 285 people who cast their votes for Jerry Garcia as a \protest 1 suggest that it might have been more effective and :-uccessful had a student run on a protest platform; a campaign to \ote for \the abolition of student government,\ in its present form, or altogether, might have mustered further support, and totals might have been studied rather than dismissed. So the majority appears to remain dissatisfied with the outcomes of campus Continued on Page 4 holiday placed a particularly heavy decision on the shoulders of a second-day student; whether to observe his religion or go attend an important first lab. It was argued that this does not constitute a precedent for cancelliAg class on all religious holidays, rather it affirms the importance of the first week of classes for an incoming freshmaN. It was futher argued that an institution such as Union has an o bligatioH to meet the needs of its members, and and potential hardship for these students should be avoided. A last consideration was the possible ill feelings toward Union OA the part of perspective freshmen and their parents. The vote was 9-6 in favor of adjusting the fall schedule. The faculty and administration split 4- 5 against the proposal, while the student representatives voted 5-I for it. Voting for the change were Howie Mastroianni, Division I; Jonathan Levin, Div. II; Glenn Wolfson, Div. Ill; Robin Waring, Div. IV: and Jeff Broomes, Student President. Billy Henson, At-Large Representative, \ oted against the proposal. Award To Testroet Union College Assistant Professor of Classics Helen A. I estroet has received a fellowship !rom the Dumbarton Oaks Center lor Byzantine Studies to rarticipate in a summer seminar in Washington, D.C. Prof. Testroet is one of 12 L\lassicists from throughout North America selected for the program, v.hich will focus on Greek Palaeography, the history of ancient Greek scripts. I he six-week program begins .June 25 and is being jointly -.ponsored hy Dumbarton Oaks, the Mediaeval Academy of America, and the Catholic l :niversitv of America and is -.upported in part by the National l'ndowment for the Humanities. Prnf. Testroet a native of Manning. Iowa, joined the Union faculty m 1971, after earning her doctorate in classics from Harvard University. She is a graduate of the College of St. I eresa in Minnesota and she taught Greek at Boston College H.S. before coming to Union. i\ former Woodrow Wilson f-ellow at Harvard, Prof. Testroet is currently serving as acting chairman of the Classics Department at Union. \Goddamm I was really cliarged up!\ That was the reaction of one inhabitant of fourth floor West to WRUC's latest innovation, a two-hour trivia contest which airs every Thursday evening from 8-10 p.m. The show is the creation of Luke Dillon, who heard of such shows at other schools, all of which received a favorable reaction from the student body. [vidently Union students are no different. Dillon called the response \amazing and expects even more interest m the coming weeks. -\=\· • .......,,.. mcur equally as vehement complaints concerning what such a candidate could expect to accomplish no experience. no connections, no status. etc. The contest works like this: Dillon, or his counterpart Frank Bacher, throw out a trivia question over the air, and the first dormitory or fraternity to call in with the correct answer scores a point. At the end of the term, the dormitory with the largest accumulation of points will be \duly recognized,\ according to Dillon. What form the \recognition\ will take has not yet been determined. The questions themselves encompass a wide variety of trivia. Last week Dillon came up with the following queries: \Who played the title roles in the television show \Pete and Gladys\ and \Where are the executive headquarters of Union College Professor of civil engineering Herman B. Zimmerman has received a $22,000 N a tiona! .Science Foundation grant for research on ocean sediment. Zimmerman analyze sediment core samples collected by the Lamont Geological Observatory in New York. By examining sediment shifts in current and climates can be charted and the history of the ocean can be determined. In addition, eight Union undergraduates will accompany Prof. Zimmerman in June on the Duke University research vessel, \Eastward in his study of the sediment movement in the Atlantic Gulf Stream. Campus politics are hence a paradox: candidates are \damned ' if they are and damned if they aren't.\ This simply leads eventually to ineffective student government. fostered by insufficient general participation. '\ohody likes to be a loser; and on this campus it is a peculiar sort that opts for embroilment in the affairs of politics. Only an 111significant number of candidates willingly committed themselves to a stand on any of this year's prevalent issues (e.g. grading and calendar), let alone 'uggested some sort of goals for next year. I would have been ,oreJy tempted to vote for 'irtually any candidate expressing Evidence of Union's beautification program seems to he photo bv Leslie Steineker

CONCORDIENSIS, Thursday, May 16,1974 Fage4 \31% of all Union students are dissatisfied ... reflecting on social deprivation\ photo by Cliff Langweiler Opinion: Students Sob Socially by COPERNICUS who weuld not return to Union if actiVIties, are there activities rhe coming of summer becons they had the choice to make again offered in which students wish to forward the-· beauty on campus are more likely to be those who participate? On the othef hand, it grounds. The flowers and trees <tre dissatisfied with their social could V.ery well be that the blame hurst forth in a ra.inbGJw of,colors life.. While 60% of those who does lie with the students. Is this and the grass is thick and :green. would not return are dissatisfied because of the type of students As one strolls through Jack.on's with their social, life, only 35% of that are cht>sen to come to (iardens. people gather to talk, those who would return are Union? Does Union ehoose read, and think. Tile creek flows ~lissatisfied. On th~ other side of ~ruclents of sufficient diversity to gently, wmtmg for Robert thecoin,51%ofthosewhowould make this campus a Redford to stroH by. A beautiful choose Union again are satisfi~d OQsmopolitan, active, exciting setting, or so it would seem on the with their soci~llife, enly 26% of L:ampus? ~urface. But one of the most trhose who· would not return t·o WheH this survey was taken,. enlightening re.sults of the Union again are satisfied. the social activities offered by the ('oncordiensis student survey Clearly there is a link between sch.ooi· were considered deficient. reveals that there is massive 'tudents• social satisfaction and The Social Committee and the d·issa.tisfaction among students on their satisfaction with the sch()()J Fi'lm Committ~e a-re offering llnion~s campus. on the whole. activities iri the Spring term that Students were asked the St~dents were asked how might be changing studenta' question: \lf you had the choice involved they were in the campus dissatisfaction. Though these to tnake again, wou'ld you select and activities. outside acad~mic actlVltles may decrease the l: nion? (answer either yes or no).\ pursuits. The results show that dissatisfaction on campus, it was Sixty-nine percent of the students 25% of ·t:he students surveyed say found through informal: talks wi.th on campus answered yes, but a they were riot invoived in any \arious students that these !>izeable minority, Jl%. of the itctivities; 46% answered they functions will not reduce it ~tudents on rhe Union cam.pus patt·icipa·te in one o~ two significantly. Students cite a \lack ~tate that if the choice were _activities, while. only 30% of tJ:ie of facilities\ er ·of \a place to go offered again,. they would not students say they pat:ticipate in to meet and talk,\ The return to Union. : severa'l activities. Rathskellar was seen as Further eviden.ce of ·* * * * ina<lequatefor\youcanonlytake dissatisfaction appears when Commentary so much of the noise and crowds students are questioned on their each week.\ The rabaret opening Why is there such ·1·h d · h b h. social life. 42. 7o/(r of the students · urs ay. mg · t may · e t · e new Jissatisfaetion? It would be easy surveyed stated tJ:iat they were to blame the students for their facility needed. This survey dissatisfie.d wi.ththet·r ·s.ocial' ): 1 'fie at k information puts in the hands of lac of participation. The Union.· 43.sa;,, \.a 1 'd· ·they ·were· the administratio'n the needed lG· ., 'i·Uestion a:rises, when 71% of the f :.atisfied, and 12.80'- s.·ai.d they input. o one of the basic factors 1u students participate o-nly f , were neutral. on the question. · · o. \What s Wl'ortg with Union.\ n11n1mally m on-academic In cro~s-tabulating the above results, one finds that th0sepeople fighting The Energy .Crisis by JOHN FOSTER The energy crisis seems to be one of those things that will not go away if we ignore it, yet, amid all the confusion over who's really to blame for the situation. it is worth taking note of one of the major groups responsible: you and me. After all, it is the American hunger for air conditioners. fancy lighting, powerful automobile. electric can openers. stereos, electric tooth hrushes. refrigerators, electric hrooms, televisions, electric ~nives. etc. that has caused energy consumption to skyrocket over the past few years. I agree that 'orne of these thin!;s are more or less essential and that others make life a bit more pleasant. but '>orne are only wasteful luxuries, and some that fall in the first two categories are used in a wasteful manner. By this I don't mean to absolve the oil companies and industry of all guilt. but it seems that rather than creating the problem. they have merely taken advantage of the situation and niade a profit from it. a not Now you can protect. yourself against muggers, rapists and worse with this unheard of practice in business history. l find this feeling is reinforced when one begins to consider what could be done if we were truly committed to using our energy resources more effecti11ely. On May 7. Dr. Ronald Stewart of the Atmospheric Sciences Research Center, SUNY. presented a Physics Dept. Energy Seminar on the potential uses of the thermal discha·rge from power plants. and \\hile I was listening it struck me how many ways there are to use energy resources to greater advantage if only we are willing to change our life patterns a little. How ironic that the United States. a country that prides itself on being innovative. is so reluctant to alter its way of life at a II. even for its own benefit. Presently. the area along Lake < >ntario between Rochester and Oswego contains power plants, many of them nuclear, capable of generating 12,000 megawatts of ~.·lectricity. Each , plant generates excess heat. which must .. ~ disposed of. An average nudtrdf rower plant requires I million amazing new whistle. Wear it .. as a necklace or carry it as a key chain. Its .long-range penetrating shrill brings help in a hurry. The next dark night (that's tonight !I you'll feel a lot safer just knowing vou have the gr!J!test protection in the world. Gives obscene phone callers a shrilling earful, too. GET IT BEFORE YOU ·HAD IT! COME IN OR MAIL HANDY COUPON Ye~l 1 want to be saved I Se•d me_ London;Like Whistles _Key Chain _Necklace (NumberJ- Chrome _ I enc:loae $3.00 lor each London-Like Whistie. I understand that ill am not totoily tatisfied, I will receive a· eomplete refund If returned In 10 days. Fe:mitv Jewels Ltd. 3431 West Villlll'd A-ut MihNaulc8e, Wisconsin U2DII NAME------~~--------------------------- STREETNUMBER------------------------------ CITY STATE ZIP gallons of cooling water per minute, and there are 12 such plants. The hot water can be dumped into lakes and rivers, but the Environmental Protection Agency has become very strongly opposed to this sort of thing. Many utilities have built cooling towers or spray 'cooling structures, which take the heat from the water and transfer it to the atmosphere high above ground level. However. these take up a lot of space and decrease the efficiency of the power plant, and all that is accomplished is to move the heat from down here to up there. The obvious question is: can't we get something useful out of this waste heat? And the answer is, yes. Hot water from an area power plant could he used for tap water. We probably would not want to drink it. and maybe not cook with it. but bottled water is already used fot these purposes in many areas now. By using the \waste\ \~ater for bathing, washing, and in the toilets. we would no longer need big hot water heaters; the \aving here would easily exceed the extra cost of bottled water. It is something to think about, and next week I wilr consider this and other unusual ways of using thermal \waste\ in our daily lives. Governance Continued from Page 3 \.'lcc_tionecrii~-.--·- -- · Is it really of any significance ''ho is in what (if any) position at any tiine'! An implication to the tact that there were so few stands taken was that there are perhaps no relevant issues at all. This then leads .to 4uestioning whether or not these titles serve any purpose hut to feed ·the egos t>f their hearer,. continue to seek and utilize it regardless of their official status. And it is perhaps those students playing petty politics at the fore that are confusing and stagnating t;he growth and change of Union policies. I here seems little point in calling for an end to- student participation in government since it is essentially trifling. H t>Wever, one might. want to consider the institution of a quorum system. 11 herein a candidate for any office must draw a decided percentage of the total possible votes on campus, in division in order to take office. Therefore, until a real need, desire for student input is 1 oiced. the system will not be ~addled with some poor substitute to student government. And it is ironic that it seems to ' r~st with the 'victors' of last week · to rer,<resent constituent ~~ntimen t. and absolve or dissolve rile fostered system of which they . photo Leslie Steineker \Rights of Non- Smokers\ Topic for Union Seminar \The Rights of Non- Smokers\ will be the topic the fourth program in the ··spring series of Health Seminars at Union Colle Thursday, May 16. Albany Medical Center clinical assistant professor Or. Henry Hosley will be the speaker The program is set for 4 ~ .... ., .. in Hale House Lounge campus. The session is free to the public. Dr. Hosley, who has a priv;1te medical practice in Castleton, is well known throughout the area as an anti- . smoking campaigner. His talk will deal with the legal rights of non-smokers in their interaction with smokers as well as a discussion of tlie medical argum·ents are products.· 1 ,====~=~=b===~ ~-----------------·· Students who have i.nput will \A· QUIET IJA.R ..• A PLACE to .TALK.'~ . mE Red Fox Inn PIZ'ZA FRIDAY~ SATURDA.l'S-lZ P~M. BUD BY THE PITCHER .II t23JAY ST. SCH:ENECTAl)Y DARI- TREET 'Student Diltc'Hlnt (whiii.D.) 2049 Van Vnaliken J.(on.•Fri. 6-9, $at. M 377-4261 ·- th Be Sf n1' K re re ex le' 01 Ul cc Pi T A fc e> st e.J o1 F H fc B v fl c p tl d l p \ I s ti t f I l a s s

_p~ge_5 CONCORDIENSIS, Thursday, May 16, 1974 Phi Beta Kappa Is This Man Normal ? • At its annual Election Meeting, the Union College Chapter ofPhi Beta Kappa elected a tetal of 41 Seniors · and six Juniors to membership. Election to Phi Beta Kappa h:as traditionally representet:l the :highest national recognition for s~cholarly excellence at the undergraduate level. Union College is one of only two hundred colleges and u n ivers.i..t.ies throughout the cou_ntry which have a chapter of Ph·i Beta Kappa on their campus. The chapter at Union - the Alpha of New York - Was founded in 1817 and its early existence has testified to the long- :standing history of educational excellence here. Current President of the Chapter is Prof. Joseph Finkelstein of th€ Department of History. Elected to membership are the following individuals: From fhe Class of 197 4 Mark Belsky Alan Benvenisty Hans Black Susan Blanchard Deborah Burns Karl Chmielews~i Paul Connors Sharon Falkenheimer ' Bradley Foltin Edmond Freis Ezra Greenspan Donna Hincher Marc Horowitz EI'izabeth Huntley Alfred Lemmo Diana Levy Leslye Linto.n Thomas Lundquist Sandra Mercaldi Gayle Quinn Anne Pebley J ohA Perlstein Kathryn Pontius Judith Rabinowitz Susan Rattner · Jennifer Reece Nancy Renzi Ellyn Rofh Giuseppe Savona Susan Sosensky Judy Steinbach Leslie T olc.hin Peter T or;pey Catherine Toye Marga,.r.et Tumart John VanHorne Mari Vosburgh Thomas W arger Paul .Weinbaum Jeffrey Wisoff John Wood From the Class of 1~»75 Barbara Burek, Stanley Kaminsky, Wi'lliam Katz, Harry Lessin, Richard Moskowitz, Robert Principato. by CHUCK ROTHMAN Martin Mull has to be Russian Lecture experienced to be believed. And even then it's difficult. What kind of person would write a hit song entitled \Dueling Tubas\! Who ~ould learn to play a guitar and tuba simultaneously so he can perform his hit on tour! What type of mind would give an art show in the men's room of the Boston Museum of Fine Arts! The only answer to these questions is Martin Mull. experience him when Mull comes to Union on May 31, fresh from recording his latest album Normal, so called because he's been getting into taking his temperature lately. He performs on a stage cluttered with old furniture, sitting hack in his overstuffed chair while he tells how his ·grandra-th.er, a-iear·esta te agent, taught him the blues on a toy ukelele. He lives by his own personal motto: \'If God had meant for us to play acoustically, he never would have given us attended Rhode Island School of Design. He astounded the art world with his men's room show entitled \Flush with the Walls or I'll be Art in a Minute.\ Later he gained some renown from an art 'show of copies of famous art that he made out of hors d'oeuvres. After conquering the world of art, Mull entered the world nf music. He performed with a group entitled the Midget Band, the first evidence of Mull's penchant for midgets. He later wrote music for PBS and wrote the hit single \A Girl Named Johnny Cash.\ His first album came out a bout a year and a half ago and he has since astounded the world with tunes such as \Margie the Midget,\ \Santa Doesn't Cop Out on Dope,\ \Licks Off of Records,\ \Ego Boogie,\ and many others. His hobby is placekicking. Professor Yuri Glazov, from Boston College, will speak on Wednesday, May 29, in HU 115 from 1:30 to 3:30 PM. Professor' Glazov will speak about Pasternak and Solzhenitsyn. Professor Gla,zov, who has been living in the U.S. for the past two ·years, was the senior editor for the State Publishing Ho11se of Foreign Dictionaries in the Soviet Union, as well as a member of the Oriental Institute at the Academy of Sciences a,nd a professor of Linguistics at Moscow University. He was -expelled from the Academy of Sciences and dismissed from Moscow University for signing several protest letters including the \Appeal of 12 Soviet Intellectuals · Against the Suppression ·of Human Rights in the Soviet Union.\ Forbidden to work after 1968, he did free-lance translations from English and French to Russian. An ex-dissident in the Soviet Union, Prof. Glazov is personally acquainted with Alexander Solzhenitsyn and Andrei Sakharov. Prof. G!azov has published a JAKE LIPSTEN'S LIQ.JORS Tel.314-llll .Mon.:S.t. 9 a.m.-9 p.m • .,., State St. . tevfs ·Dave's·Mens:Shop . 453 ..... St .. I .. (dowmon SCbeftCC1Ady) j number of scholarly articles in the field of specializa-tion, as well as several articles on the dissent movement in Soviet Russia. We will have the chance to . amps.\ '.lJi j \ Travis Shook and the Club Wow fftlc!Ji Paint Vermont. exJJtl\f instruetiPB in the I . stenit hills or .Verii!Onl I DORM STYLE LODGING Aim ALL MEALS ·lWlUTE--THE MmtfS ·E'B WORKSHOP OM!!'EA11 ECOLE.: .p. ITTS. FORD, :n. 0$76.3 . i . ' . . .. ~ . I I Mull's music is a blen<l of all sorts of influences that he puts together into sophistica!ed musical satire. Sometimes he sounds like a big band of the 40's.~ other times like hard rock. There is one thing his music alv;ays is, however, and that· is hilarious. Mull has a way of seeing what is funny in life and .expressing it in song. It is a gentle fmm of humor, subtle at the same time it is funny. Unlike other rock ~ongwriters who have a comic touch, Mull adds a touch <>f the bizarre by using visual aids to create the mood for a song. This includes wearing a beret and sit·ting with a loaf of French bread (among other things) for a song called \Ah France .. \ Even wilen he is not singing, his remarks introducing a song are worth the price of admission. He puts ori a . fantastic concert, as those who might have seen him on TV will attest. Mull grew up in Ohio and Performing with Mull will be rravis Shook and the Club Wow, a two-man act (the Club Wow is their back up group which they haven't gotten around to forming vet) in a similar musical vein. It ~ill all ~nake for an incredibly entertaining and enjoyable show. If you want to have some fun on a Friday night be sure to show up. And remember any midgets attending will be escorted to seats in the front row. tevrs The Bootery 147 JAY ST. HAND SEWN STEERHJDE MOCCASINS MEN'S $31.95- $30.95c~l;~N WOMEN's $27.95 - $26.95c~l;~N

CONCORDIENSJS, Thursday, May 16, 1974 The next meeting of the Student-Faculty Bridge Club will be held on Tuesday, May 28, at 7:45 p.m. ih the Hale House Upper Lounge. This wil1 be the last meeting of the year. The winners of the last tournament were: 1st, J. Mills and P. Millman; 2nd, tie- P. Chansky and T. Hartman, and J. Stirn and Q. Gordon; the players of the year were ~· Mi_lls and P. Millman, tied fer first, and P. Chansky, third. Trophies will be awarded at the next meeting. \' ... \' * . The Women's Caucus invites· all women students to a pot-luck dmner on Monday, May 20 at 6:30 p.m. in the Women's Center (Carnegie Room 201). Come and get to know other women students fat;ulty and admi.nistrators. · ' \' * \' * W~nna go on. a bi~e trip? Everyone's invited to attend a planning meetmg for a btke tnp on Monday, May 20 at 4:30 p.m. in Strauss Lounge. This is sponsored by the Women's Caucus and all men and the A~nual Engineer's Picnic, sponsored by the ASME, ASCE, and IEEE, will be held at Thatcher Park on Saturday, May 18. A modest donation .of 50e will provide food, recreation and fun. Interested persons should complete a reservation form, which may be found in any of the engineering .offices, as soon as possible. * * \' * Wells Fellowship Live with class this Sl.!lllmer in rooms at Phi Delta Theta. $12 a week, with the use of the kitchen. For more info, call Ketcham, Wia~er or Spence at 346-9730 or come see us on Lenox Road, the house with the red door over the Lax field. Union Co.llege Assistant * * * * Prdfessor of Histor:y Robert V . Richard Kostelanetz, a New York City poet, will give an . Wetls has received a post-doctoral \illum~nated reading and lecture\ at 8:00 p.m. on Tuesday, May 21, research fellowship~ from the 1974, m room 202 of the Arts Building on the Union College campus. Charles Warren ·Cen.ter for His presentation, spon~ored by the Department of the Arts, is part of Studies in American Hi&tm;y, and a course which deals with contemporary issues in the arts. He will will s.pend .the 1974-75 academic speak about and read from his own poetry and fiction and discuss the year at Harvard University where avant.egarde and the international literary scene. the center is located. Prof. Wells women are welcome. Mr. Kostelanetz is apthor of Visual Language, and In the was awarded the fellowship to * * \' * Beginning. He is editor of numerous anthologies including continue his studies on the Intramural Track Meet postponed until May 21 and 22. Track Breakthrough Fictioneers, and Essaying Essays. He is included in both significance of population in events on Tuesday, May 21; field events oil Wednesday, May 22. Both poetry and fiction anthologies such as The Young American Poets and American history. are at 4:40 _p.m. Archery Tournament May 24 at 4:30 p.m. Tennis ,New Amer-ican Poetry, and has_given Illuminated Demonstrations at a ln his work, which ultimately Tournament-Doubles, Tuesday, May 28. Mixed Doubles, Wednesday, . variety of colleges and universities including the Rhode Island School will result in a book, Prof. Wells May 29. Both at 4:40 p.m. Sign up in the Gym Office Monday, May of Design and Cooper Union. He is editor of two volumes in the plans further study on pattern!! on 27. Documentary Monograp~s in Modern Art series, Moholy-Nagy and birth9 death, marri&ge, and \' * \' * John Cage. ' · migratio.n in American history Biology Department annual picnic will be held at 4:30 p.m. on * * * \' and how the population Friday, May 24, at the ,Girling Center. Tickets are $1,50 (children Tel Ayou Frenz, May 14- . interacted with developme'nts in under 12 half price) and available from Mrs. Foss in SW 316 before Scott Reiter, premier of Hillel, has announced his resignation in politics, economics, and the Thursday, May 23. Don't miss out on a really good time! anticipation of the annual dismissal of the Knesset. He and his 1 society that emerged in the United \' * * * cabinet,' however, will remain as a caretaker government uniil new States from the colonia-l period to Investigate a career in secondary school science teaching. Next elections are held. . the present. Wednesday, May 22, at 7:30 p.m. a biology teacher from Albany It is ~o~ certain here whether his coalition with the ruling Schlep The Wanen Center, since its Academy and a physics and chemistry teacher from Niskayuna High party will hold up or be defeated by the opposition Plotz party. establishme-nt in 1·965, each year School will be in the Hale House Student {lower) Lounge to give us Sources close to the premier have admitted that the Kosher meat 'awards approximately 10 post- the inside story. scandal might have damaged the party's chances in the election. The . doctoral research fellowships as \' * \' * vice-premier, to whom the scandal pointed, was not available for part of its overall program, which Attention Seniors: Measurements for cap and ·gown now being comme~~· . . . stresses research in American taken. Contrasted' price- Bachelor~$10.40 tax included until Sf3lj74. All c1t1zens of H!llel are bemg urged by the government to at.tend history. Price jncrease from 5/31/_74 through 6/7/74, $12.48 tax included .. elections to be held on Thursday, May 2~ at 7:30 p.m. in the Hale Prof. Wells has written several . \' * * * House Lounge. (Denizens ate also urged to attend. Citizenship may be articles on population patterns in Attention all EE's. Any~ne interested in functwning as a member of obtained at the door for 50e.) Colonial America and is the tl:te. executive. committee of the IEEE is encouraged to leave his or her . . . * * * \' , author of The Population of the name with Prof. Gajjar in the EE Dept. or in the IEEE mailbox in the Lookmg for good food m the fall? A.D. Phi has plans to fit your ·British Colonies Before 1776, to EE office. It is not mandatory that interested persons already be budget and fill your stomach. Call 346-9688 for info and samples. be published next year by the members of the IEEE. . * * * * Princeton Universit~ Press. · · * * \' >~~ \Warm Grass\ will be back again at Phi Sigma Kappa this Saturday. The Library needs your help moving books into the new addition. nite,. May 1.8. The campus is invited for a night of free beer and fin,e Get your tushie over to the Library and sign up today! music, startmg at 9 p.m. Come on up!! * ... \' * * * * * ONCE A KNIGHT, BEING SUNK 50 DEEP IN THE SEA OF DESPOND!: BY HIS FAILURE WITH WOMEN, DID RETREAT DEEP INTO THE. FOREST WITH A VOLUME OF MOST MELANCHOl-Y VERSE. WHENC!; HIS ROOMIE, A DRAGON, DID COME UPON HIM AND DID TELL HIM OF A WONDROUS WAY TO - ,.,. BY MEANS OF THE ANCIENT ART OF THE 5TREAKE. AND 50 1 OVER A COUPLE OF FROSTY-COLD CANS OF SCHAEFER--THE BEER THAT DREAMS ARE BUILT UPON-- THEY DID PLOT THE KNIGHT'S MAIDEN STREAKE. AND UNDER THE WATCHFUL EYE OF HIS MENTOR, THE KNIGFIT DID PROCEED TO PERFECi HIS STREAI<ING SKILLS ... TO THE GENERAL AMUSEMENT OF ALL THE FURRY BEASTES. ATTRACT THE OPPOSITE SEX. AT LAST HE PROVED READY FOR HIS BIG GTREAKE. AND DID 5E.T OUT ON HIS WAY ... ACHIEVING SUCH A GREAT VELOCITY THAT HE DID ZIG WHEN HE SHOULD HAVE ZAGGED. PROVING ONCE AGAIN: BEING THE OPEN MAN IS MUCH BETTER IN BASKET- BALL THAN IN .LIFE. Schaefer Breweries, New York, N.Y.-, Baltimore, Md., lehigh Valley, Pa. k • ' ~ •· • • • • .. • ' •• ·~··· •• , •• ~ ••• , ••• ,,. ' ...... ~··~·.-·· ........... , ................... .- ..... t . . ~ . . . . . . . . . .. ~ . . \' . . . ~ . .

stant V. the for and Wells ip to the n m Wells on and tory at ion in the iodto its year post- as which rns in the the 76, to the Page~-_ ·coNCORDIENSIS, Thursday, May.J6, 1974 . - Tennis Upsets Middlebury 5-4 Track: Second In State by ALISON SLOAT For a team so small in representation, that was predicted to score und'er thirty points and finish seventh of sixteen teams the Dutchmen from Schenectady came too close to be taken lightly. A mere two points separated Union from winner Colgate's 44 point total (R PI 10.0), Uary Aikens and Mike Lawrie (Cort. both in 10.2), Herring returned in the 220 to bow to PeteR ice of St. Lawrence, 22.2, with a 22.7 for second. one meet by a single point and then surprising all by just missing the win in the states, maybe the rest of the teams in the state association will give credit where credit is due. The state might be hit with a double take when they realize that only few are graduating, Mark Mindel from the 880, Brad Patterson from the long and triple jumps and Scott Kalina from the 880. Next year they might just learn. Riding tne booming fm;tunes of tennis. worldwide, the Garnet racketeers closed out the most .successful tenni$ campaign in memory, defeating the always powerful Middlebury squad ~-4. In de~eating the Panthers on their home courts, Union's men in white left no doubt as to the quality of tennis produced at this school. In fashioning a sparkling eight-and-one mark over the season, only Siena and R. P. I . had . losing records among the nine opponents. Middlebury was a victor 'over Vermont as was Union-beaten Hamilton, who won over. Rochester and St. Lawrence, all three annually the best competition in the Northeast. It was the upperclassmen who responded to the challenge on Tuesday. Once again leading the Garnet surge was junior captain Kevin Crawford who disposed of Middlebury's best in convincing style; 6-3, 6-1, making it seven straight and 8-1 on the year. Combined with an undefeated '73 record, this leaves the Rhode _Islander with a sterling 15-1 mark for file two-year span. In the crucial second singles match, Roman Rakoczy defeated Andy. Taylor in three well-played sets, 6-.1, 6-7, 6-2. Since his transfer from Northeastern last year, Roman has posted an excellent 12-3 mark. It was seniQr Tim Moran Who captut:ed Union's final singles victory as they were split 3 and 3. Timmy defeated Bob Bruder 6-3, 6-2. Freshman Steve Marcus was beaten by Tim Metzger 6-3, 6-4, but had a fine overall year with a 7-2 record. -Dennis Lindenberg and Paul Dowkontt gave fine efforts in losing at Middlebury but both recorded big wins during the season. In the doubles, the Garnet captured the number one and three contests to take the match. Rakoczy and Crawford swept to a 6-4, 64 win and then seniors Tim Moran and Paul Donkontt climaxed their varsity athletic careers with a three-set victory. 6- 7, 64, 6-2. It was a fitting ending for varsity tennis as a sport at Union. · At 9:00 it started, six miles and the first event of the 27th NYS Outdoor Championships in Track and Field was underway ... and Steve Jones was there. Oswego's Fran Verdoliva, commanding the race, crossed for the win, 29:33.5, a new track and meet record. Jonesie, in a superb showing, followed with a 30:24.8 clocking as he fought off Steve Pulos (30:25.0, Alf.) on the straight for second. Suarez returned to set records in both the one and three miles. Garnet Weightman Bill Mowery chucked the shot 52' Y4\ for another new meet record, and he continued to better his own UCol record. Fresh,man Mark Scheuer destroyed his own record in the 440 intermediate hurdles, as he sped to a 54.4 win and a new track record. The only other win realized by the Dutchmen came from the high jump in an upset as Dave Ricks claimed the win at 6' 2\. Freshman Dave Plumer, still hindered by a muscle inj1:.1ry, grabbed fourth with 6'. More points came for Ricks in the pole vault with a 13' 10%\ third. Cortland's crew, Paul Ksionzyk and Dave Lander claimed one, two honors with 14' 6Y2\ and 13' 10}4\ Ksionzyk establishing a new track and meet record. Representation from Union in the 440 dash came from Jeff Hroemes as he turned in a 50.4 time for fourth and a personal best. Freshman Rich Norman was another member of the team to see his own best performance as he threw the javelin 179' 4\ for fourth in that event. An underestimated mile relay team was placed in the slow heat of the event. Yet Scheuer, Broomes, Mindel and Ricks combined for a 3:24.3 mile and fourth place. Continued from_ Page 8 designated hitter, had 2 singles, a double, and a sac,rifice 0Y· Skip l.ega added 3 hits whlle both Westbrook and Miller stroked 2 hits apiece. rhus. it was another tough week for the Garnet. who now ~tand at 5-9. The !-run loss to Middlebury was particularly painful, but the romp over Williams seemed to be gQ,od medicine. The Dutchmen Nme want to close the season on a happy note. Golf Senior Bob Uronauer Netwomen Rip R.P.I. 4- l Sprinter Milt Herring shone as he flew to a 10.0 win in the 100, hettering rivals Booker Jones Maybe next year the Union thinclads will be viewed a bit differently. After such a \poor\ season this year, dropping only JV Lacrosse (Briarcliff Manor, N.Y.) shot a season's best 76 to give Union an extra hole's decision over Middlebury. He then came back with a match medal ·79 against Albany State, but it was not enough as the Dutchmen lost 9-6 to the Danes to even the season's record at 3-3 with one match On Monday afternoon, the Girl's.Tennis .. Club finally played. their rematch with. R. P .l. after being rained out the week before. This was the first away match and difficulties did arise in finding transportation and players but eventually eight tousled girls met at t-he- gym and coach Hinkley drove us to Troy. Due to strong winds and cold weather, we ended up playing indoors in a field house that looked like a senior project in bridgebuilding. After searching all afternoon for ambitious girl tennis players, we found that R. P. I. had only six girls. So Joanne Muther and Lee Russell acted as chaperons to the crew and sat out. Because there were only three courts, the decision. was made to play pro sets. Number one singles was played by Margaret Golden. She played a superb match, which exhibited great form and style and she overcame her opponent 8-5. Lauren Gorden, number two singles, played a hard match. She placed many fine shots but was unable to overcome the con~istency of her partner and lost the set 4-8. Stenie Plater played in the third position. She played consistent tennis and had no trouble in winning the match 8-3. Jill Korostoff, number four singles, played a steady match and overcame her opponent 8-4. Our doubles duo, Wendy Moss ,. ... !\\ ...... --.------,.,..--·--- -----\7-ww.:..-.~- ......... .-..~ FLASH!! Union is host of Upstate ECAC Lacrosse tourney, by rights of being the tirst·seeded team. Elimination games played Friday. 1:00 p.m. - Geneseo State vs. Hartwick U. 2nd & 3rd seed. 4:00 p.m. - Union vs. R.l.T. 1st & 4th seed. Final game play between winners on Saturday at 2:00. Admission charged is $1.00. ... --p-~ Da.e•s· Mens Sllop .45.1StateSt •. (downtc»WD ScbCaecladY). and Barb Sarnoff, played a fine set with strong serving and well placed shots and won the set 8-6. by FRANCESCO ISGRO The match resulted in a 4-1 victory and gave the club a 2-1 The · Union College junior- winning season. varsity Lacrosse Team concluded The Tennis Club showed great a successful campaign under first- interest and support this spring. year mentor Gale Knull. The We had lots of girls eager and .. yearlings defeated the Engi·neers ready to play competitive tennis. in their last game, 7-6 overtime, We only wish we could have to close their season with a played more matches and matches respectable 6-3 record. of higher quality, as was Russell Freshman Hank Fleming led Sage. Tennis practice, however, the Garnet team by scoring 18 will continue for girls who are still goals and credited with 3 assists. interested and next fall the club is Scott Easton, a freshman from looking 'forward to three more Dixie Hill, New York, accounted intercollegiate matches. Our for 18 points, on 12 goals and 6 thanks goes to Coach Hinkley, assists. Team-mate Mark Gross, a who· gave us a lot of her time and junior, also tallied 12 times and moral support not only in the had one assist. Other high-scorers match~s but in the club's were Jon Maslow, II points, Bill organization. Silbert, 9 points, and ~-Don SPORTS BLITHER Hammerman, 5 points. The J. V. Lax Team starts its yearly roster with about half of its players having had little or no Intramural track meet postponed till May 21 and 22: , . Track events on Tuesday, May \t1lo<:~ l+H+t~l++tf:*..Jtf:~·.l:oo:l•lHI\\•oJ:lo<n•l'•ollo-t*.,....,~~- 21, Field events on ForallthOseconcernedwitll Wednesday, May 22, both at h bl f: • h u · 4 40 t e pro ems acmg t e n1on : p.m. College \Community and for · * '* * * Archery tournament May 24 at 4:30 p.m.,_ *::. * * * Tennis tournament Doubles, Tuesday, May 28. Mixed doubles, Wednesday, May 29. Both at 4:40. Sign up in the Gyrn Office Monday, May 27. those who care enough to try to deal with the social and human.· difficulties faced by this college, an open rap ·session will be held Saturday, . May 25, at the Girting Center. The purpose of • this meeting is to allow people the chance to communicate their fears and concerns ill an · informal setting, at this picnic- party-meeting. For details, call Calvin Anderson, Co- ordinator, at 370-6606. remaini~_g. __ _ experience at all in handling the sti~k. T!!_is year w_as;.;no qjf(er~nt. '\'We started the sirason as a 'b-unch of individuals, and we ended the season as a team,\ commented eds in next year's squad. ·Coach K null. He ·'lilso added that \you don't need -experience to hegin playing lacrosse,\ a hint for some jocks who are afraid to go out fer the sport because they have never played it. Or it could have been a hint to get some co- Team scores: Union 4 Union 5 Union 12 llnion 10 ll nion 3 Union 5 Union 10 Union 6 Union 7 B·L_I.THD· RPI Williams Syracuse Siena Middlebury Siena Albany Albany RPI 3 IS I I 8 12 9 4 4 6 Boarders wanted at the Sigma Phi Fraternity for the fall term for meals, $210 for both lunch and dinner, or $140 for just dinner. Also needed are 2 waiters. If interested contact Greg McNamara, 346-9895. * * * * . Meals. will be offered at Davidson Co-op next year. For mfprmatwn, contact Scot McClellan, 224 Davidson Coop, 346-9938. * * * * Mon., May 20 is Yom Yerushalayim, Jerusalem Day. This occasion commemorates the day when, for the first time, ALL the holy places in Jerusalem . became opet;~ to visitors of all religions. The day will be commemorated at Umon College by the tolling of the bells of Mem?rial ~hapel. \Hatikv~h 'The Hope\ of the Jewish peopl~ ·and Israel s national· anthem Will be played periodically. All students are ur~ed to pause in meditation of the day, remembering especiaHy the chiid~en murdered 'by terrorists at Ma'alot in Western Galilee this past Wednesday. - . * * * * Any women interested in being a Companion for next year's freshmen women, please contact Marcia Cantor, 210 fox, 370-6431, or Lyn Yelton, 304 Richmond, 346-9212. - * * * * Free kittens, black and white, call Dale, 377-671 I. * * * * . Apartment. f?r Rent -: June, July, and August; 4 single bedrooms, kitchen and hvmg room, mexpensive, call Pete at 377-9837. * * * * Maurice Graubart & Sons . . On Monday, May 20, 1974, the Economics Department presents a lecture by Lester C. Thurow, a distinguished M.I.T. economist. Professor Thurow's topic will concern the current rapid rate of inflation and its effect upon the distribution of income; \The Contemporary Inflation: '113 ALBANY ST. No delivery chargt with two-8 n~t pizzas. W&DIUVKII UN1lL MIDf!IIGIIT N31Uiiill THI~ IS HERSH~I.. MAURICE. AND WALTER GRAUBART AT ORAUBART & SONS. SCHENEC'TADVS OLDEST FAMILY JEWELERS. WE VERY SELDOM ADVERTISE OUR REPAIR DEJ\ARTMENT BECAUSE WEARE KEPT BUSY MOST OF THE TIME . WE'!) LIKE-TO MENTION THAT WE OFFER A COMPLETE REPAIR SERVICE ON WATCHES AND JEWElRY. ITEMS. OUR WATCH RE.PAIRS ARE -DONE BY EFFICIENT. HIGHLY 'SKILLED WATCHMAKERS. AND OUR WORK IS GUARANTEED TO BE S.ATISFACTORY. OUR REPAIR SHOP WITH OUR OWN J~WELERS AND DIAMOND SETTERS CAN PERFORM MOST . :WELRV ~EPAJRS. REMf;MDER GRAI)BART & . SON..<; FOR J :UABI E SERVICE. . \66 JAY ST. SCHENECTADY Do the Rich Get Richer While the Poor Become Poorer?\ All members of the College community are urged tc> attend this lecture at 8:00 p.m. in SS016.

PageS CONOO.RDJENSIS, Thursday, May 16, i974 8• ECAC Upstate La_crosse Tourney at Union by FRANCESCO ISGRO The Union College Lacrosse Team continued to shatter all- time records, as they everpewered Wesleyan 16-12, yesterday on Da.ley Field in front of a very enthusiastic sun-bathed ·crowd. The team broke the all-time record for co.nsecutive victories set by the 1929 national dilampionship squad. It was the 9th consecutive victory for the Allison-coached squad, and its present 10-1 rec01:d is only et~ualled by the 1966 squad which also was 10-1 for the season. The Ciarnets also buried the college recorcl of 115 points set in 1966. This year's squad has scored 137 times behind 92 assists bringing the new record to a total of 229 points. Individual records were also broken by Dennis Walker and . Robert Grossman. Walker, who earned an All-American honorable mention last year, and is also the present co~aptain, broke Im: ~l.llOOI record tor most final will be played Saturday at goals by tallying 52 times in 2:00 pm with no consolation eleven games. Walker had also set ga1ne. the previous record during the YesteEday t;he Garnets played a 1973 season by scoring 42 times. -well-'balanced game against 7-2 R,obert Grossman,. a jm~ior from Wesleyan. Union didn't play as North BeN more, New York, ·has uggressively as it had against the tallied 21 times and provided 54 last ce>~;~ple home games, but was assists to set the aU-time record '1ble to tame the·ir opponents. for most points scored in a Sta n•O'Brien becam~ the hero of season. The record was set in the game as he scored three times 1966 by· Lee Schneider who had 'oil)d ·~as cr~dited wi1h two assists. · Bne n pulled the Garnets out of 59 points. With one game IHt in u s tagnanl situation in the last ;he regul,ar sche~ule Grossman period .by single~handedly scoring .!lready has 75 J?Omts. . . three goals and providing one I o top al! th1s off, th1s week- assist. e~d the Umon College C~mpus , Both teams exchanged goals wtll have the honor of hostmg the during tile first period. A goal by second annual Upstate New york Wesleyan wit·h only 14 seconds Eastern Confe~ence . R~gwnal gone. on the clock had the fans I ournamen.t. Umon With 1ts 10-l 'A'o:nied'. But the Gamets came record is top seeded, followed by right back and one minute later Geneseo State also with a 10-1 freshman John Thompsen put the record. On Friday at 1:00 pm tea:m on the scoreboard Geneseo will meet 5-4 Hartwick, unassisted. Dennis Wa,lker and at 4:00. pm the Garnets will ace ounted for two goals in. this face 9-4 Rochester Institute of period both on assists from Technology. The Championship Grossman. Goalie AI Ritchie · · made some excellent saves. The ,_, .. . ..; . ·-.; .... sc()re· ~tood tied at 3-3' at the end ()[ the· period. Carl Walker opened ;the scoring in the second period ·e>n an assist from John Thompse>n. Wesleyan came back with'less than 9 minutes left in the period., with two ·consecutive goals. pulling them ahead 5-4. l'ilen J oiln Thompson, who played a flawless first half, came fro rn hehind the goal net to score unassisted. With about one minute left, Charlie Howe threw in· a 30-footer which caught the Wesleyan goalie unprepared. Thus at the end of the first stanza it l<lOked as if Union would keep its solid 8·5 lead. '\Nesleyan came right back ,after halftime, to score three times wit.hin 5 minutes to bring the , .. , · score to· 9-8 still in the Garnets' '···' favor. Walker assisted by ' '·. Gr()SS111a n ptovided the 9th goal. ,,. Th.en Grossman came up with ~mother unassisted around-the- bend .shot to lift the lead to 10-8. Jim Thompson receives a homerun swing to the gut. ···· · Wesleyan narrowed it to one shot minutes later. Stan O'Brien all of a sudden poured in two goals in !lb<Jut a minute and assisted the third one t() Walker to lift the J.)utchmen t() a credible 13-9·lead. Wesleyan still stayed close by tallying twice, but O'Brien sla.pped in another goal on an assist from Don Ward to up the: score to 14-11. Thompson (John) mid D. Walker tallied two more times with less than 4 minutes left in the game to assure the Garnets the victe>ry. Fortur.~ate/y for Jim, No. 32 missed the ball. photo credit Leslie Steineker Baseball Defeats Williams 14-7 by HANK BERNSTEIN !he baseball season is rapidly coming to a dose. Not including yesterday's game against R. P. I . , Union is 5-9, having again dropped two of three contests since last week's article. The lmses were at the hands of Hobart. 9-5. on Friday and at the hand~ of Middlebury, 3-2, in I 0 inning~ the following day. :\:cvertheless when Williams came to Schenectady three days later. the Garnet finally combined hoth their hitting ability and their pitching ability in one game and ..,wamped the opponent, 14-7. I he first few innings aiways seem to give the Dutchmen the mnst headaches and the Hobart game was no exception. Hobart !>.cored H runs in the first 3 innings. on only 4 hits. A number of 'A-alks. a hit-batsman, and an error did most of the damage. .I oey Urschel was on the mound and. unfortunately. he did not pitch nearly as well as he is capable. He completed the entire ~evt!n-inning game, giving up nine hits and nine .runs. Union had I 0 hits, but could come up with only 5 runs. Lou Miller had a big day at the plate. belting out 2 triples and a single and scoring twice. Steve Andrews added 2 hits of his own. knotted at 2-2 after the regulation nine innings. In the tenth, however. the first batter for Middlebury sealed the .victory with a home run. Steve Stockman had started for U. Coli. and pitched well, although giving up 2 runs. One of the runs came in the fifth without a hit: errors always hurt. Charlie Flanagan replaced Stockman after one out in the fifth and retired the side. He also ~truck out the side in the sixth frame. Flanagan finished the game, giving up only 2 hits, but one was the deciding poke. Dan Milder and Ron Westbrook each had two hits as the Dutchmen . outhit Middlebury 8-4, but again lost. As the Garnets host the ECAC lournamcnt this weekend, Concorcly urges all students to take a study break to watch one of the finest Lacrosse SHUads in recent decades and sun-oathe on the rolling bill of Daley Field. .. .J . .. • ··' !f.-~~ <'r<.~ John T,hompson, the freshman who attacks with points. photo credit Leslie Steineker Details ... Defense-minded Geneseo. State will p'lay Hartwick, and Rochester Tech will face host Union on Friday, May 17, in the opening round of the Eastern College Athletic Conference ( ECAC) Upstate Lacrosse Tournament. The game will be played on Daley .Field. The Geneseo-Hartwick game is set for l p.m.; Rochester Tech and .Union are scheduled to face off at 4 p.m. The win!lers will meet Saturday.(May 18) at 2 p.m. for the championship. There will he. no consolation game.. . . ltckets each day Will be $1 and will be sold only at the game. Top-seeded Union has built a I 0-1 record this spring mainly on the strength of an e;xplo~ive attack that features jumor Hob Grossmann who has already set a new Dutchman one-season scoring record with 18 goal.s and 49 assists for 67 points. Linemate Dennis Walker, a sen.ior, bas tied his own record for goals with 42 ·thus far while the third member of the unit, freshman John Thompson, has chipped in with 23 goals. llnion's opponent. Rochester lech, has a record-setter of its own in senior attackman Jim Miller who has put 44 shots into the net this spring and assisted on I I other scores. The Tigers also have a high-scoring-midfielder in Rich Vail who has 22 goals and 1,7 assists for 39 points. A tournament ·bid for Rochester Tech is. a major acbieve111ent for first-year coach A. J. Russo who took over a club that finished with a 2-12 record in 1973. Ge,neseo, the number-two seed and the only team back from last year's tournament, opened this spring with an impressive 8-7 overtime win over lthaca en route to a 10-1 final record. The Knights, with a predominantly upstate New Y otk line~up, are leo hv senior goalie Pete Bence who aflowed just fouf goals a game during the regular . season. Sophomore attackman Paul Barron was the top Geneseo scorer with 45 goals and 18 assists for 45 points while sophomore mid die Bill H illimire added nine assists to his 18 goals. The Knights lost only . to College Division power Hobart this spring. Hartwick comes into the tourney with a modest 6.-4 record, hut that mark includes a 12-11 loss at Union and an 8~5 loss ·at ,(ieneseo, both early in the season. The Warriors feature a balanced attack led by senior midfielder Bob Leone who scored 14 goals aond added 24 assists for 38 points, a record at the Oneonta school. !his b the second year the ITAC has sponsored regional lacrosse tournaments in the :'oo:ortheast. I he Middlebury game was the l<lurth time this season that the Ciarnet had lost by only a mere run. The Middies' pitcher was a llamethrower as he struck out 14 Union batters. Yet, the score was lhe Garnet 14-7 victory over Wi'lliams on Tuesday was very >atisfying. Union lashed out a total of 16 hits and frequently had men on base. They capitalized on Williams' walks and errors to !>.core in every inning except the fifth am;i eighth. Flanagan ~tarted and p1tched the openmg 6 stanzas. After a shaky start (Williams scored four times in the lir~t inning), he ~cttled down !.Omcwhat. Coach Lawrence replaced him with Noah Paley in the seventh and Paley gave up 2 runs on I hit and 2 walks. However. he retired. the last 7 hatters he faced to finish very !.trongly. Milder was on base all 6 times he came to bat and scored 4 times. Both Gene Quirk and Greg Hreedlove, in his role as Joe Urschel wings one versus Williams Tuesday. Continued on Page 7 photo credit Cliff Langweiler .. I ] tul -- Ti Tt T1 at m L< th af; th gr le; elc Stl B< ey at a~ is~ st1 fo pl so irr re w cc pe te liT at ru M of ca ac n pr L1 at w; dt th PI th ar WI yc JH Ill A St af we F< cc to S1 El fo M ar M 0 th IS Ed •th Iva •

A ho ho his rd, at the nal the Due to complaints of the Flower Guild, this year's tulip•eating contest has been cancelled. '~Which of you will stop the vent ofhearing when loud Rumour speaks?\ See_ Expert ~ olleyball. This Saturday on Lenox Road The Delta Phi Dust Bowl Championship! · W.. Shakespeare Voi.I03, N~. 22 McCabe Speaks Special to CONCORDIENSIS Wednesday evening at 9:00, Tim McCabe, one of the Student Tmstees · to ·Union's Board of Trustees, spoke to a small audience. of four students. The meeting was held in Strauss Lounge, He spoke primarily on the functions the Board performs and his own._personal role. He is the ·senior representative and will graduate at the end of this term, leaving Bruce Sostek and newly elected Geoff Taylor as the two student repre-sentatives to the Board .. · Mc&be; ·in the two years he has served, sees his role as \representing the college from the eyes of a student.\ Admitting that at times he has probably gone against student opinion on some issues, he said, \Many times students don't realize that asking for money to be 'allocated to one place means taking away from somewhere else which is just as important.\ Also, students often· recemmend increasing .fees without realizing the consequences. · .. What many people don't realize are the long- term consequences resulting from immediate decisions.\ supplied that the Board does act on are building projects (i.e. Computor Center, gymnasium), internal projects (i.e. Carnegie), committee reports and recommendations. On June !3-15 the Board-_ will evaluate the American Studies Graduate Program, a possible mail room in Carnegie, and ideas for the College Center. \Probably the two most . pressing issues this year have been the gym and the presidential selection,\ McCabe Said. There are very few issues where the Board is split one way or the other. McCabe stated that in only two issues the Board was not unanimously for or against something. \Tho~e two issues were the computor center decision and· the gym where· only one Board member in each case voted no. In most cases~. if an issue i~ controversial, it is referred to a comn1ittee to study it more.\ The evenin.g was very informative, but to very few people. Tim McCabe lives in Beta Theta Pi (377-9837), and Bruce Sostek, the Junior representative to the Board of Trustees, lives on second floor Fox (346-9527). Both representatives are available for questions. * :k :1:: * Editor's note: Concordy will deal in depth with proposals for new gymnasium facilities next week. Thursday, May 23, 1974 One of the students in the audience asked, \Does the Board run everything in the school?\ McCabe responded, \No. Many of the decisions made on the campus are handled by the administrators. The Board hired the administrators as professionals to run the school'.\ Later he responded to a question about where the most influence was on the Board in making decisions. \My impression is that the administrators the President and the Provost - have the most influence because they are hired for that purpose.\ Bernhardt Returns Some examples McCabe .J·obs For all seniors who would like information on job-hunting techniques there will be a meeting on Tuesday June 4 at 4:00p.m. in SSO 16, with Mrs. Susanna Miller, Placement Director: Learn where to look, how to write a resume, what to do on your own. * * * * Advertising Layout with local advertising agency. Need copy ~nowledge of graphics. Reply to: Box 24-E Gazette. Housing Assistant with the City of New York, $8,600, Perform work in the administration of the p.u blic housing program, interviewing and investigating. Applications at Placement Office. * * * * by GLU · Last Saturday night, Chi Psi, Phi. Sigma Kappa, and the Coffeehouse all competed for the attention of Union's masses. It was iJ;l the Old Chapel where returning , '73 graduate Bob Bernhardt found himself enthusiastically welcomed by more than 200 people in an SRO Coffeehouse. Bernhardt . effortlessly set an atmosphere of warmth and congeniality upon his entrance; the audience, in return, reminded Bobby that he was far from forgotten on the Union campus. He opened with several numbers on the guitar, many of which were his own original material, then played tunes remtmscent of his several Coffeehouses during the past four years. Bernhardt also delighted the audience with humorous anecdotes. Bob summoned former fellow- classmate Paul Delfin, visiting for the weekend, to the stage. Together they performed numbers including one particular song Delfin had played in previous Coffeehouses. \Since I Fell For You.\ Delfin provided the guitar back up for Bernhardt's vocal solo on this 11-year-old Lenny Welch tune. Delfin was later to return to join Bernhardt for more songs. In the meantime Bobby continued on the guitar then switched to the Summer-Recreational Therapists keyboard. Among the dozen or so afternoons, evenings, and melodies he strung together weekends. Ten week program. included his familiar medley of For positions: supervisor, senior BeeGee's hits. Of course, a Beatles counselor, and two aides. Write extravaganza was inevitable, as Paul Delphin twangs to large crowd. photo by Leslie Steineker coming to perform at Union this weekend, followed this up with his. most sincere expression of appreciation for the reception he felt around him. It is this mood, in addition to his talents, that makes Bernhardt so welcome at to: Box 1267, Scotia, 12302. Bob Bernhardt returns to was a Beach Boys session. But =§§~§§~~~§~~§§a= Summer Sales Postions Union. before he finished his four-hour := =rl coffeehouses. Electrolux Corp. Opportunities photo by Leslie Steineker stint, Bernhardt entertained Graduation starts at S:lS for part-time work next year also. audience requests almost as fast p.m. June 15 in Library Plaza More info. at Placement Office. as they were bellowed out. (no tickets necessary). In the mM:::n:: ... =-=•=••i':i••:;: .. ::,;:o,,::; .. :: .. ::: .. ::,,::,:: .. :::: .. :::.,::,,::,::,,:::,,::::,,::,:: .. ,::.:::,.:::,,::,::.,:: .. ::: .. :::,,::,:: .. :: .. ::: .. ::,,::,::,.:o:.:,,~ •• ::,,~.~ •• :o:.: .. ~ .. ::.::,.,~.~ •• = .. ~.,::,,:o-.o. R e p rese n ta lives inc I u d ed Beat le s, e~ent of rain, the ceremony I CONCORO.Y EDITORS Blithering Editor and Mondshein Beach Boys, Herman's Hermits, wall be held in Memorial .. . . as Foreign Correspondent. CSNY, Grand Funk, Angels \My Fieldhouse, in which case the ConcordaensJs today Mondshein said of his election Boyfriend's Back,\ and a host of maximum number of tickets announce~ the election o~ Robert .. l'tn pleased as punch,\ whil~ just about every other conceivable for each senior is four. Tickets M,ondshem an~ _ ~hns~opher O'Coimor hopes to put the 'group of the early, mid, and late can be picked up Tuesday in 0 Connor as edttors-m-c~tef for outgoing· editors-in-chief, Judy ,flO's •to whom he could deliver a· the Registrar's Office. The th_e fall of 1974 and wmter of Dein and Bill Talis back into the good ribbing. graduation speaker will be • 1975. Both are members of the secretarial pool. Mondshein is a Perhaps it was Bernhardt's Miss Dixie Lee Rae, :class of 1976, and have served on native of Levittown New York closing remarks that epitomized Chairman of the Atomic' 35 cents Frolic This coming weekend, promises to be the biggest of the year at Union. Collaboration between the Orientation Committee and Social Committee, sparked by a few gritty, determined freshmen, will result in a weekend of fun and frolic. For openers, at 12:45, Friday May 24, the classic Marx Brothers Film, Duck Soup will be shown for free, outdoors in Library Plaza. Bring your sweaters, it may get chilly. In ca:se of rain, Duck Soup will be moved to Memorial Chapel at 12 Midnight. The fun continues on Super Saturday. At 3:00p.m. there will be softball equipment on Library . Field; anyone wishing to play can join a game. Rumors are buzzing that some Faculty superstars will . be on hand as well. Starting at 4:00pm the Charley Smith Band will begin to play at Library Plaza. The music will end at 7:00. Of course, there will be popcorn and beer. At 5:30, Saga will host a barbecue in front of West College. All Saga meal tickets will be honored. Hot dogs, burgers, beer and other goodies will be served. Starting at 9:30 p.m. the Edward Fox Blues Band will blast until I :00 a.m., (with still more beer and popcorn). The lights will be on in Library Plaza. ithe. present .e?itorial staff in and O'Connor 'resides i~ . the entire evening's mood. He Energy Commission. :vanous capacities, O'Connor as Springfield, Mass. ., . . !explained his apprehension of ll~s§E§§§E§!:!S§§s§§$59.!~5~ \'•-•• .............. iil,,ira-;,~;;..-., ...... ae•\•\••••••ltnu•••i a,: This is the weekend to meet .and mingle. There will be nary a moment to relax or, God forbid, study. Freshmen Matt Brief, Jay Kasner, Vicki Rosenbaum, and Julie Rothenstein, along with members of the Orientation and Social Committees, have worked hard to make this an atypical Union weekend. ..

Page 2 ~a~ &.~. -~ ' Cltunrar~ ~· ~ ltittmts -a~·~~ ~'<.d .. ~ .. , ~Aif\·oj'· Editors-in--chief.. ......... : .......... Judy Dein. 'Bill Talis News Editor ................................ : ..... Geoff Taylor Culture Editor ...................................... Pete Sobo.l Sports Editor ....... ~ ...... ~ ....... ~ .............. Bart Mercer Photo Editors ............................ Leslie Steinekei', · Cliff LanJ!Weiler Copy Editor .......................... , ............ Phil Alcabes Forei,zn Corespondent ................ Rob Mondschein ·Riitherintz- Editor ........................... Chris o•connor · · . AI G . Busmess Editor................................. · an ness•n National Advertisin~r .......................... Steve Kelley Subscriptions EditoP .............................. Lisa .. Tietz C~ is published every Thursday by the litUdent body of Union C'ollef!e. Old Gym. Hall. Schenectady. N.Y.~ Publications Office. The Jewish World Publications. 771 State St.. Schenectady. N.Y. 12307 (346-23S6). Entered in the Schenectadv Post OffiCe as Second c:iass Matter. Subscription Rate 3S cents Per copy. $8.00 a vear delivered anvwhere in the United States. Deadline for copy is Tuesday S:OO P.M. Save Cabaret The tentative plans·· for developing a rnailroom in the Student Center would displace or eliminate the Cabaret. Concordy applauded efforts to develop the Stu~ent ~e.nter, including a mailroom. However, to unnece~sanly _ehmm~te the result of weeks of hard work aimed at unprovmg soc1al life at Union would be a tragedy. The Student Center needs activities such as Cabaret desperately. Its success speaks for itself. The elimination of Cabaret would not only be to the detriment of the social life at Union and the development of the Student Center, but would represent an injustice to the students, Barry Smith, and the Dramatics Department of the College, whic.h for too long has been underbudgeted and understaffed. Com:ordy feels that the mailroom an~ the Cabaret can coexist and can contribute to the well hemg of the Student Center. · wgt Tax Money Student taxes are going to be increased, 'probably $15 per year. The, increase is nf(cessa.t:y since increased costs cannot be met by the present student fund. A proposal was made to the Steering Committee by Student Trustee Tim McCabe that some of this money be donated to the new gym and Student Center. The Board of Trustees is drawing up ·P.lans for a new gym to replace the small Alumni Gym now in use. The gym would be financed by a fund-raising drive. McCabe suggested that .a gift of $2,000 from student taxes be given to show student support for the project. . . . · An additional $2,000 will be given to the Student Center, with the hope that the $11,000 surplus. in the present ~~dget will also be given to pay for the new mailroom and additiOnal facilities in the Student Center. A common complaint of alumni is that studen~s do ~ot do anything for themselves, they just assume that thmgs will g~t done. I feel that by giving the financial gifts, students w11l show where their priorities lie. The donations, which will not hurt student activities, are an effective way for students to make their opinions known. I urge the Steering Committee. to pass the suggestion. · jgd Po,tential Picasso paints a portrait of pastoral peace. photo by Vi CONCORDIENSIS, Thursday, May 23, 1974 You Said It!' Rap Report f:ditors, Concordiensis: I would like to personally extend this invitation to Union si'Udents interested in the problem of .. lack of community at Union College.\ On May 25, at the . Girling Center between the hours of 10 a.m. and 5 p.m. there will be an ppen discussion on this problem by aft segments ·of the cellege. This accompanied by a picnic and live entertainment I hope will allow all involved to <;oncur on a social plane as welL As a fellow student prepa.ring to inherit the society, I hope that we begin to understand that we will also inherit each other. Man is the most important element of society. If we are n·ot a body functioning separately 'to comp'lemcnt the whole, we will have no society to inherit. As I am your future so are you mine, ignore that truth and we both wil'l die. Sincerely, Calvin Anderson 370-6606 Editor, Concordiensis: · We all seem to have noticed the plantings especially this spring. They will be important to the College long beyond the time when we all leave. A special note of thanks is due to the Schenectady Alumni Association, rrustee Vanneck as administrator of the Bailey Fund, The Union College Board of Trustees, Mr. Rudolf Schatzel', Mr. Walter Hochuli and Mr. Milton Enzer lor pr.oviding us with funds. Special thanks go also to Professors Huntley and Harlow a s we II a s t he Cam p u s Development Committee for their guidance and assistance. As we appreciate the increasing heauty of the campus, I suggest we remember these people who have shown vision and concern. Willard F. Enteman Provost f:ditors, Concordiensis: The winners of the Idol competition are Mark Mindel for J:iction and Dan Valenti and Stanley Wisk<>wski for poetry. !'heir work, .along with the other mtries selecte<i for publication, v. ill appear in the magazine slated for the first week of June. The Idol wishes to thank all those who spent the time and effort to submit their work to the contest. Nearly thirty !'ieces of fiction and over 50 poems Were considered in the judging, indicating to us that creative expression is indeed alive and flourishing at Union. Entries may be retrieved at the English Department Office until the end of school. Jean Howard Characters croon in the Cabaret. photo by Scott Gordon Qp_inion: Election COrrection by TOM BURBANK The two editorials, ap:t1y titled, \Election Reflection .. and \Garcia Farcia\ and the rather inane article entitled, .. Jerry Was Robbed\ (Concordy, May 9) . bring up not only very interesting points but also grossly inaccurate ones which. cry for correction and clarification. Theso-called \first mistake\ of the Steering Committee in ruling on the presence of Jerry Garcia's name on the recent ballot for election as Steering Committee President cannot be called invalid. The Constitution for Student Government, which currently establishes the governing structure of the Union College student body, clearly states in Title II: Membership, that, \The Student Government . shall consist of all students actively affiliated with the College in any given year.\ lt is also not true that, in the past, the Elections Committee has been hampered by a low rate of application for membership. This year may indeed be an exception, hut in past years plenty of students have applied for membership on the Committee, and its expansion should have heen provided for. It is not possible to elect as President a group of ten people, as the constitution stipulates the election of a President, a Vice President, a Secretary, and two representatives from each class. The candidacy, then, of the ten ~~ udents was completely in valid frem the beginning, since voting for a candidate under the constitution means voting for him and for no other individual(s). In response to Marty Berman, yes, I agree that the election was a . farce; it was indeed publici:r:ed \piss-poorly\; th.ere was insufficient time for campaigning and publicizing; the election was more or less a popularity contest; and obviously student govern- ment as it now stands is a joke - in part. However, it is extremely easy to sit at one's desk· and complain about it and it is nearly as easy to drum up a foolish campaign for a non-student in order to \protest\ the electoral process. It is a much more difficult task to take upon oneself a constructive endeavor to make student government more responsive, more representative, more respected, and more effective. Mr. Berman uses the election percentage figures to show how few student body members voted for Jeff Broomes or Dave Heilburg and then shows how many voting students chose Ciarcia. If only 16.2% of all enrolled students voted for Broomes, it is obvious that less than that total voted for Garcia. The issue to be debated by the percentages is not one of Garcia's popularity or that of Broomes or •Heilburg. It is instead one of student neglect and apathy . Mr. Berman's \basic reason\ is that \student government here is a joke.'' That's true, Marty, but it's only because you and others have made it that way, and any actions stemming from it a~e as much your fault as theirs. In the Garcia matter, the Steering Committee and its President, Larry Brown, upheld the constitution and did not in any way ignore the wishes of their constituents. The Garcia vote tally 'in the ensuing election didn't hackfire on the Steering Committee - it backfired on l Inion College students, some of whom are truly interested in making government work. I doubt that every one of the 288 votes cast for Garcia were truly protests of the election system's inadequacies; rather, many, more likely were votes cast as jokes theftlselves, by students unwilling to make government their own i·esponsibility . Mr. Berman, I am willing to het that you are not alone in deploring the past\ workings of the Steering Committee. But I strongly resent your labeling their rractices as \sleazy and underhanded.\ That was indeed an unfortunate choice of words, rarticularly from one who him~elf this past winter engaged in lying to two of the ll}embers of the Student Tax Committee in attempting to have student tax runds allocated for an activity which the Tax Committee could not sanction. It is also interesting to me, as it may be to others, that You should attack the ;11echimisms of election, since you were once the chairman of the Elections Committe,e, and therefore in the best position to influence its operation. So 'what has the whole Jerry . Garcia issue accomplished: It managed to damage the honest efforts of candidates interested in changing life for -students at Union. Only David Heilburg knows how it feels to put in hours of time, patience, ·and perseverance trying to be elected to the Presidency of the Steering ( ·ommittee, only to discover that he'd been outpolled by a lead guitarist of a well-known band in ;. write-in campaign. It showed how we do things at Union; ignore the pro~Iem until the last 111inute and then scream and bitch until the newspaper prints it. Don't try to affect the system - it's too damned much work, a· hother. Back in the \!lood of' days\ we had a student government which made decisions, got things accomplished, a'lld was fairly well respected by students, faculty, and administrators. Snap decisions were not made without first consulting the opinion of the student government. Today there is far less. respect for student government, an<i it is our own fault. If you want to change the methods of election, apply for the Elections Committee. If you want to have a say in where your ;tudent tax money goes, apply for the Student Tax Committee. If \'ou'te not the le:gislative type, but ~·ou and your friends want a change, get up a petition with 200 signatures, which permits a town meeting to be .called. There you can present your argument and Continued en P .. age 4 I th sr tc is (' tv \\ s ~~ E p s t. st ir ( 1\ J· s s 0 11 s: tl s a (] s r v

Page 2 ~o~ ~--~ C!tonrnr 0 ~ ;z biPuis 0J\· ~Aifl·'\ Editors~in-chief ...................... Judv Dein, Bill Talis News Editor ................................ : ..... GeoffTayior Culture Editor ...................................... Pete Sobol Sports Editor ...................... ~ ............... Bart Mercer Photo Editors......................... ..leslie Steineker. · Cliff Lanl!Weiler Copy Editor ....................................... Phil Alca~ Foreij!n Corespondent ................ Rob Mandschem 81itherin,:! Editor ........................... Chris 0 9 Connor Business Editor .......................... : ...... Alan Gnessin National Advertisin11 ......................... .Steve Kelley Subscriptions Editor .............................. Lisa Tietl c~ is published every Thursday by the student body of Union C'ollej!e. Old Gym Hall. Schenectady, N.Y .. Publications Office. The Jewish World Puhlications. 771 State St .. Schenectady. N.Y. 12307 (346-2356). Entered in the Schenectady !Post Office as Second Class Mauer. Suhscription Rate 35 cents per copy. $8.00 a year delivered anywhere in the United States. Deadline for <:OJ)Y is Tuesdav 5:00P.M. Save Cabaret The tentative plans' for developing a mailroom in the Student Center would displace or eliminate the Cabaret. Concordy applauded efforts to develop the Stu~ent ~e.nter, including a mailroom. However, to unnece~sanly .ehmm~te the result of \\~cks of hard work aimed at ImJXovmg social lift: at Union would be a tragedy. The Student Center nee.ds activities such as Cabaret desperately. Its success speaks for itself. The elimination of Cabaret would not only be to the detriment of the social life at Union and the development of the Student Center, but would represent an injustice to the students, Barry Smith, and the Dramatics Department of the College which for too long has been underbudgeted and underst~ffed. Concordy feels that the mailroom an? the Cabaret can coexist and can contribute to the well bemg of the Student Center. wgt Tax Money Student taxes are going to be increased, probably $15 per year. The, increase is nf;cessary since increased costs cannot be met by -the present student fund. . A proposal was made to the Steenng Committee by Student Trustee Tim McCabe that some of this money be donated to the new gym and Student Center. The Board of Trustees is drawing up .plans for a new gym to replace the small Alumni Gym now in use. The gym would be financed by a fund-raising drive. McCabe suggested that .a gift of $2,000 from student taxes be given to show student support for the project. An additional $2,000 will be given to the Student Center, with the hope that the $11,000 surplus. in the present ?l!dget will also be given to pay for the new matlroom and additional facilities in the Student Center. A common complaint of alumni is that students do not do anything for themselves, they just assume t~at things will g~t done. I feel that by giving the financial gifts, students will show where their priorities lie. The donations, which will not hurt student activities, are an effective way for students to make their opinions known. I urge the Steering Committee to pass the suggestion. jgd Potential Picasso paints a portrait of pastoral peace. photo by Vi CONCORD/EN SIS, You Said It! Rap Report Editors, Cuncordiensis: I v.nuld like to personally extend thi~ invitatiorl to t:nion '>lUdents interested in the problem of \lad of ~:or:nmunity at lJnior! College.\ On May 25, at the (iirling Center between the hour~ td 10 a.m. and 5 p.m. there will he <til open discussion on thi~ problem by all segments of thc- wllege. !his accompanied by a picAic and l iw entertainment I hope will allow all involved t() nmcur on a social plane as welt :\s a fellow student prepariag to inherit the society. I hope that v.~ hegin to understand that we 1\ill abu inlrt:rit each other. Ma11 rs tht: most rmportant clemrnt of ,octt:l}. It we arc n~l! a hody lunctioning separately to rPmplemcnt the whole. we \\ill ha1e no societv to inherit. \, I am vnttr futun: so are you llllllc. rgnllrc that truth and 11c hoth will die. Sincerely, Calvin Anderson 370-6606 Editor, Concordiensis: \\'e all scern to have noticed the planting:, especially this spring. I hev will be important to the ( ·oliege long beyond the time \hen we all leave. A special note of thanks is due to the Schenectady Alumni Association, I rustec Vanneck as administrator of the Bailey Fund, The Union ( ·ollege Board of Trustees, Mr. Rudolf Schalle-l. Mr. Walter ll()(:huli and Mr. Milton En1er I<H pr01 iding us with funds. Spec-ial thanks go also to l'mfessors Hunt ley and Harlow a!-. well a~ the Campus llcvclopmcnt Co f.llllliHee for their !!llidance and a1si,ta l'lcc. \s Wl' ap[HL:ciate I he increasing hc<ttlt~ of thL' car:npw.. I suggest 1\t: remember l'l~cse people wlw have shown 1 ision a l'ld concern. Willard F. Enteman Provo§t Editors, ( 'oncof!liensis: I he winners of the Idol m1npetJtJon wrc Mark Mindel for hctil>n and Dan Valenti and Stanley Wiskowski for poetry. I heir work, along with the other entries sclectrd for puhlication, 11ill appear in the magatine slated lnr the first wed~ of .June. The Idol wishes to thank all those who \flent the time and effort to -,u hmit their work to the contest. \earl~ thirty pieces of fiction and o1cr 50 poems were considered in the judging, indicating to us that crcative expression. is indeed alive arHl flourishiNg at Union. Entries ruav he retrieved at the English llcpartmcnt Office until the end d school. Jean Howard Characters croon in the Cabaret. photo by Scott Gordon Qp_inion: Election Correction by TOM BURBANK I he two editorials, aptly titled, \Election Renection\ and \Garcia f·arcia\ and the rather inane article entitled. \Jerry Was Robbed\ (('oncordy, May 9) hring up not only very interesting points hut also grossly inaccurate ones which cry for correction and clarification. lhe so-called \first mistake\ of the Steering Committee in ruling on the presence of Jerry Garcia's name on the recent ballot for election as Steering Committee President cannot be called invalid. The Constitution for Student Government, which currentlY establishes the governing. structure of the Union College student body, clearly 'tales in Title II: Membership, that, \The Student Government shall consist of all students actively affiliated with the College in any given year.\ It is also not true that, in the past, the Elections Committee has been hampered by a low rate of application for membership. This year may indeed be an exceptiOn, hut in past years plenty of ~tudents have applied for membership on the Committee, and its expansion should have been provided for. It is not possible to elect as President a group of ten people, as the constitution stipulates the election of a President, a Vice President, a Secretary, and two representatives from each class. rhc candidacy, then, of the ten ~tudents was completely invalid from the beginning, since voting for a candidate under the constitution means voting for him and for no other individual(s). In response to Marty Berman, yes, I agree that the election was a farce; it was indeed publicized \piss-poorly\; there was insufficient time for campaigning and publicizing; the election was more or less a popularity contest; and obviously student govern- ment as it now stands is ajoke- in part. 11 owever, it is extremely easy to sit at one's desk and complain ,!bout it and it is 11early as easy to llrum up a foolisii campaign for a rwn-student in order to \protest\ the electoral process. It is a much llH>re difficult tas.k to take upon oneself a constructive endeavor to tna ke student g()vernment more r·esponsive, more representative, more respected, and more effective. Mr. Berman uses the dection percentage figures to ...,how how few student body members voted for Jeff Broomes l 1r Dave Heilburg and then shows how many voting:: students chose Ciarcia. If only 16.2fJ-( of all e-nrolled students voted for ~momes, it is ohvious that less than that total voted for Garcia. I he issue to he ~ehated by the flerccntages is not one of Garcia's flopularity or that of Broomes or ·fleilburg. It is instead one of -.tudent neglect ar1d apathy. Mr. Berman's\ basic reason\ is that \student government here is \ joke.\ That's true, Marty, but it's only because you and others have made it that way, and any actions stemming from it a~e as much your fault as theirs. In the C iarcia matter, the Steering ( 'ommittee a11d its President, I arry Brown, upheld the constitution and did nnt in any vo.ay ignore the wishes of their constituenls. Th~ Garcia vote tally in the ensuing election didn't Dackfire on the Steering ( 'ommittee it backfired on ! inion College st,l!dents, some of \\-hom are truly interested in 1naking governrr~ent work. I d nu bt that every <lne of the 288 \ otes cast for ( ia rcia were truly fl' rotests of the el-ection system's inadequacies; ratller, many, more likely were votes cast as jokes tflem.selves, by stu<lents unwilling to ~ake governrnent their own r·esponsihility. Mr. Berman, I am willing to het that you are nC>t alone in deploring the pas(vmrkings of the Steering Committee. But I ~tro ngly resent yotu labeling their practices as ~'sleazy and underhanded.\ Tnat was indeed a11 unfortunate cit oice of words, particularly from (}ne who himself this past winter mgaged in lying to two of the members of the Student Tax Committee In a !tempting to have student tax fu11d~ allocated for an activity 1\hich the Tax Committee could not ~anction. It is also interesting to me, as it may be to others, that 1 ou should attack the ;nechanisms of election, since you ~ere once the chairman of the Flections Committee, and therefore in the best position to inllumce its operation. So what has the whole Jerry < iarcia issue accomplished: f t managed to damage the honest ~fforts of candidates interested in changing life for students at t lnion. Onlv David Heilburg h nows how it feels to put in hours of time, patience, and pcr~everance trying to be elected to the Presidency of the Steering ( ·omrnittec. only to discover that he'd heen outpolled by a lead !.! uitarist of a we Il-k nown band in :1 write-in campaign. It showed how we do things at Union; ignore the problem until the last minute and then scream and bitch until the newspaper prints it. I )on 't try to aCfect the system it\ too damned much work, a h<1ther. l~ack in the \good ol' days\ we had a student government which rmde decisions. got things accomplished, and was fairly well respected by students, faculty, and administrators. Snap decisic>ns were not made without J'irst consulting the opinion of the ~ t uden t government. Today there is far less respect for student !!OVernmcnt, and it is our own fault. lf you want to change the methods of election, apply for the I lections Committee. If you want to have a say in where your o,tucient tax money goes, apply for the Student Tax Committee. If 1 nu're not the legislative type, but ~ou and your friends want a ~·hange, get up a petition with 200 'igna tures, which permits a town meeting to be called. There you car1 present your argument and Continued on page 4 'I ! ., i ~t in c I'V I s s st a 0 sc n ~ ~ c d ~ s . h a d a <I

for try. to est. in hat ish he tn he to It m at rg at in n· ' a· If a CONCORDIENSJS, Thursday, May23, 1974 Pa~e 3 The Right and the ·Wrong of Union by VICTORIA KIM Last Thursday at 7:30 p.m. in the Gymnasium, eight fraternities sponsored a panel discussion. The topic being c<msidered was \W)lat is•wrong and right with union College.\ The pane I consisted of two administrators; Provost WiHard I. Entemen, Dean of Students, Mark Smith, tWo· faculty members; Professors Edward l. Craig and David B. Potts, and three students; Bruce Sostek, Thomas Watts, and Laura Chakrin. The event was well attended by students and faoulty; among those in the audience were U nio.n College President, Harold C. - Martin, and President-elect Thomas N. Bonner. The discussion . began with Steven Stockman presiding; Mr. Stockman being a repvesentative of the fraternities. Each panel member was to give a five minute speech on any aspect of Union thought most important. Lots of Problems Bruce Sostek, one of the two student trustees was first to speak and preferred to give a general overview of the problems in the school which he felt were most relevent. He stated that black- white relations on campus . are \terrible Union is too academic, social life is non-existent and the women are overlooked. Bruce cited a fraternity independent distinction as being problematic. His personal reaction to a significant portion of the student · body is that there is ilo unified sense of purpose. The student hody lacks a spirit of community and cooperation. He seemed distressed because of the large amount of untapped potential at the college. \People he feels, \don't take advantage of what Union has to offer. They should take advantage of the diversity and flexibility offered instead of ruuing t~e college down.\ BSA Walk Out Thomas Watts is a student active in the Black, Student Alliance . and was previously editor of Perspective. In his very brief presentation, Thomas stated that the problems of blacks in America and consequently at Trees Of the 581 elm trees on the Union campus in 1952, only about 100 remain. In October of 1971, arborists recommended to the College that the planting of elms be ter.minated, and a variety of more durable species replace the dying shade trees. Diversification in planting is seen as a necessary step to counter the heavy toll taken by Dutch Elm disease of local shade trees. The elm has traditionally been a favorite shade tree and has flourished in the region, but 277 trees were lost in the twenty year period of 1952-72. Wet spring seasons in recent years have made the problem more acute. Since there is no sure way of preventing Dutch Elm disease, and no proven method of saving a tree once it has been infected. experts ~elieve that the disease may make the elm extinct in this part of the nation. , Union are approached in Whtte terms. ..Blacks,\ he remarked, ''are never free of white people.\ He fe.lt lthat since the really >imp·ortant issues were not being discussed: such as the problems of poor black children and insufficient housing for America's poor blacks, he could ·not participate in the discussi0n any further. Mr. Watts then walked out of the gymnasium, foHowed hy some black students who were s.itting in the front row. Educational. Experiences Lacking The third speaker was Prof. David B. Potts, ppofessor of hist0ry and director of the American Studies program. Casting his personal perception about one major fault at Union, he presented the notion that the 4 uantity of the educational experience offered at Union is caught up in a \financial crunch\ as opposed to the \quality crunch.\ He described a significant number of faculty _as being tired - cutting back in terms of the degree ()f intensity of their courses, papers, and tests. The complex governance system and beleaguered administration have been almost constantly concernea about finances. He mentioned that students put in less and less time on studies because so many of them have outside jobs. He was also concerned· with the increasing inflation in· Linebacker, which cvaiuates courses and professors. He called for an increasing community among students and faculty and at the closing of his discussion again raised a question pertaining to the problems of finance: Is the financial crisis affecting the quality of education at Union? Women's Problems The second student to speak was , Laura Chakrin, an active member of the Women's Caucus. Restricting her discussion to the women~s role on campus, she felt that ·union is too male- dominated. She used the example that there 'are only 18 women faculty members as opposed to 165 men, and strongly urged that an effort be rnade to increase the number of female faculty· members. Ms. Chakrin remarked that the social life was too much taken up with fraternities and recommended that an effort be made to allocate money so students would be able to\ plan alternative events.\ Role Playing It was suggested by the George Landis Arboretum in a campus conference on October 8, 1971 . that a combination of red, scarlet. and pin oaks, sugar and red maples, the linden, the London plain, and the honey lo~ust tree be planted. Among the lesser shade trees suggested _ were the tulip tree, ash pine and Douglas fir. Provost Entemen's approach to problems at U,nion was in terms of its social setting. As he explained, \Tbere is too much role definition and role playing.\ He felt that those at Union take too narrow a perspective. \They lack a sense of humor.'\ We should identify certain problems and then proceed to solve them.\ The Provost then identified one problem - the lack of direction of certain students, although he did not offer any suggestion for a solution to the problem. He then emphasized that there are many things right with Union as well. It has put its resources into the curriculum, making it broader and richer than many other colleges. \There is where an educational institution should put it.\ Union~s Not That Bad Edward J. Craig, of the Electrical Engineering Department described some ofhis personal experiences pertaining to Union. ''I was imprinted at Union,.\ he stated. He presented the audience with the good side of the school through his recollections. which the audience found extremely amusing. The College. which lxlgan these plantings in 1972, has been working at a feverish pace to preserve shaded areas of the campus, evidenced recently in its spring beautifreation program. Definite Potential Mark Smith, Dean of Students, was tile last panelist to speak. He felt strongly . that one shpuld not Tom Watts, Laura Chakrin and Bruce Sostek at the meeting. photo by Cliff Langweiler let all that is ·wrong with UJ?ion surpass all that is right with Union. Calling it \a. great college,\ he felt there is no reason why it should not operate as one. People have a low tolerence level and they lack excitement and effectiveness. Dean Smith sees a tremendous waste at Union, an attitude similar to that of Bruce Sostek's. People have a bad habit, and that is to \bitch bitch, bitch.\ He sees a danger in excessive \self-righteous self-interest.\ Dean Smith praised the high quality of Union faculty and added that everyone should get a top quality education at the school. people who complain are too lazy and/ or apathetic to pursue things such as clubs, committees or offices. Another student offered working in the community an alternate for students to get involved. Members of the Women's Caucus strongly urged female students to pa~ticipate in what they have to offer.· They have comm un_icated with incoming freshmen women in the hope that they will become aware of the women's situation on campus. When one female student commented that Union women were segregating themselves from men on campus by the existence of the Caucus, another student Open Forum replied to this by saying that it is After the presentations were . important for women to. know concluded, Steven Stockman · each other also. The subject of opened the floor for any reactions securi~y, especially but not to a panelist's statement. or to exclusively for women, arose any comments, opinions, or stemming from the' recent recommendations one would wish incidents involving some women to make. The topics the students being attacked on campus. spoke about fell into the Union·~ Aeademics following categories: The racial Many students were concerned problem on campus, the social with certain academic aspects at aspect (student involvement and Union. One student said that interaction, women), the academic \education for the sake of aspect (including s·tudent-faculty education\ is lacking. He relations), and the student criticized Professor Pott's opinion government. as \too rigid and career-oriented.\ A cC'mmon complaint, is that He spoke of the bureaucracy there is little or no black:-white · existing in the Art Department relationship on campus. One black student explained the and complained that money to the college was not being used situation: \People don't talk to where it is needed. There were each other- Blacks don't talk to whites, and whites don't talk to some complaints made pertaining to the existing trimester calendar, blacks.\ Everyone, she said, has however the more immediate something to offer. Another concern dealt with the student stated that she felt 1iscriminated against by certain relationship of students to faculty. white students and her professors. She felt that certain professors were giving lower grades to blacks than to whites possessing the same .intelligence. No Soeial Life Almost everyone seemed concerned about the social life at Union. There is little student interaction, due partially to the lack of places where students can gather, and a lack of weekend social eve\'nts. Some students felt that they want an alternative to the Skeller atmosphere. A hope was expressed that . with the ~evelopment of the Student Center things would soon improve. Some students felt that the highly competitive atmosphere existing here is hindering many students from interacting with others. One student felt that the hou~ing situation allowing squatter's rights is also preventing people from meeting each other. Some Optimitists Some students reacted to a student's complaint that the school was being run by an elite few. The student felt that those Advisors The Orientation Committee today announced the selection of its adviso.rs for the incoming freshman class next fall. The advisors will handle all freshmen and transfers entering m September. Chosen are: Cliff Langweiler, Jay Diamond, Mark MacDonald, Lincoln Walworth, Susan Duffel, Michael Carroll, Lewis lnsler, Jeff Luck, Bill Katz, Sue Lasker, Sandy Shore, Yvonne Lavender, Howie Sowalsky, Laurie Feldman, Russ T orisi, Jeff Holik, Jeff Bernstein, Dennis Gajewski, Mike Goldsmith, Cindy Wolfson, Judy Arbi, Ellen Rasmussin, Bob Pfefferling, Bob Wilson, Helen Billak, Barxara Burek, Fred Weinstein, Barbara Burri, Dave Ricks, Lisa Tietz, Santi Debriano, Janice Berbrick, Aleisha Jackson, Candy Dunlop, Louise Dunn, Debbie Zimmerman, Tont Watts, Marcia Baity, Jim Kestenbaum, Alan Kusinitz, Pam Anderson, Cindy Greenspan, · Patricia Curran, Ann Cashan, Dave One student said that with u mou being a small school, the student- faculty ra.tio should therefore be 1fmall also. She felt that the increasing class size is beginning to be a major obstacle to the type of personal education many students think is valuable. Altho ugh there was one complaint of various professors' unwillingness to see students, there were others who felt that they were being given sufficient time and attention when they wanted to speak to their professors. ·~People must make the effort to see the faculty\ one student stated. But the question immediately arose as to how to draw the introverted student into the profe-ssor's office. A feVI students commented on the inadequacies of the student government as it presently exists. During the recent elections there were cries for change in government although no alternatives were offered. There was one recommendation made which Vlould separate the trustee elections in the future from the Steering Committee and College Senate elections so everyone might become increasingly aware as to the importance the office of student trustee possesses over all others. The f()rmal discussion ended at approximately 9:45 p.m. and anyone wishing to continue to speak to any panelist could do so on an informal basis. After many problems were finally brought out by this ·panel discussion, one question remained to be answered: \Where do we go from here?'' Selected Hardmait, Tom Burbank, Adam Berg, Mary Ellen Chomsky, Lois Timms, Pete Rubin, Sue Hick, Bob Carney, Phil Mueller, Marc Altman, Howie Epstein, Mitch Mindlin, Ayala Rahimi, Marshall Wisoff, Jeff Broomes, John Moessinger, John Glover, Sue Weinstein, Ray Thorman, NicDle Menage,. Gene Rosenblum, Celeste 1\nderson, Doug Alcaide, Dave Mendolson, Paul Magaril, Nina Halpern, Joy Sawyer, Chris Fink, Bill Martin, Chris O'Conn()r, Ruthan Rappaport, Bill Underhill, Barbara Roslyn, Marcia Cantor, Lance Jacobson, Barry Rothman, Jim Goldstein, Lauren Weilberg, Donna Sockell and Nalley Golden. The ()rientation Committee is comprised of: co-chairmen 'Dave Heilberg and Sue Brecher; assistant co-chairmen Bill Talis and Berta Hershokowitz; Bruce Dow n.s brou gh, Debbie Boghosian, Fred Presley, Pat Clarey, Pete McKernon, Lynn Yelton and Harriet Kaplan.

for her ted h~.: to lit. m ive ish In ty ld e It st d t. a h II y, p R e e r f ' I I CONCORDIENSIS, Thursday, May 23, 1974 Page 3 The Right and the Wrong of Union by VICTORIA KIM Last Thursday at 7:30 p.m. in the Gymnasium, eight fraternities ~ponsorecl a panel discussioll. The topic bein.g considered was \W!lat is'wrong an.d right with Union ( 'ollege.\ The panel coflsisted of two administrators; Provost Willard I. EntemeH, Dean of Students, Mark Smith. two faculty members; Professors I dward I. Craig and David B. Potts, and three students; Bruce Sostek, Thomas Watts, and t.aura Chakri<n. I he event was well attended by ~wdents and facul.ty; among those in the audieHce were lJ nion ( 'ollege President, Harold C. Martin, and President-elect lhoma·s N. Bonner. I he discussion began with Steven Stockman presiding; Mr. Stockman being a representative of the fraternities. Fach pane I member was to give a five 111inute ~pecch on any aspect of lJ nion thought most important. Lots of Problems Bruce Sostek, one of the two student trustees was first to speak and preferred to give a general overview of the problems iA the school which he felt were most relevent. He stated that black- white relations on campus are \terrible Union is too academic, social life is non-existent and the women are over.looked. Bruce cited a fraternity independent distincticm as being problematic. His personal reaction to a significant portion of the student · hody is that there is no unified sense of purpose. The student body lacks a spirit of community and cooperation. He seemed distressed because of the large amount of untapped potential at the college. \People he feels, \don't take advantage of what Union has to offer. They should take advantage of the diversity and nexibility offered instead of putting the college down.\ BSA Walk Out lhomas Watts is a student active in the Black Student Alliance and was previously editor of Perspecth>e. In his very brief presentation, Thomas stated that the problems of blacks in America and consequently at Trees Of the 581 elm trees on the Union campus in 1952, only about 100 remain. In October of 1971, arborists recommended to the College that the planting of elms be terminated, and a variety of more durable species replace the dying shade trees. Diversification in planting is seen as a necessary step to counter the heavy toll taken by Dutch Elm disease of local shade trees. The elm has traditionally been a favorite shade tree and has nourished in the region, but 277 trees were lost in the twenty year period of 1952-72. Wet spring seasons in recent years have made the problem more acute. Since there is no sure way of preventing Dutch Elm disease, and no proven method of saving a tree once it has been infected, experts believe that the disease may make the elm extinct in this part of the nation. . It was suggested by the George Land is Arboretum in a campus conference on October 8, 1971 that a combination of red, scarlet, and pin oaks, sugar and red maples, the linden, the London plain, and the honey locust tree be planted. Among the lesser shade trees suggested were ,the tulip tree, ash pine and Douglas fir. The College, which began these plantings in 1972, has been working at a feverish pace to preserve shaded areas of the campus, evidenced recently in its spring beautification program. llnion are approached in white tcrn~s. \Blacks he remarked, \are never free of white people.\ He felt that since the really important issl!les were not being J iseusscd: such as the prob le·ms of poor black children and imufficient housing for America's poor hlacks, he could not participate in the d iseussion any lurther. Mr. Watts then walked out of the gymnasium, followed hv some black students who were ~(tting in the front row. Educational Experiences Lacking lhe thiFd speaker was Prof. I )a\ id B. Potts, professor of h.istory a!ild director of the AmiJerican Studies program. ( ·asting his personal perception about one major fauh at Union. he presented the !'lotion that the quantity of the educational L'Xperience offered at Union is caught up in a \financial crunch\ ~ a~ opposed to the \quality <.:runch.\ He described a \ignificant number of faculty as being tired -- cutting back in terms of the degree of intensity of their courses, papers, and tests. I he complex governance system and be'leaguered administration have been almost constantly concerned about finances. He mentioned that students put in less and less time on studies hecause so many of them have outside jobs. He was als0 concerned with the increasing inflation in Linebacker, which evaluates courses and professors. He called for an increasing community among students and faculty and at the closing of his discussion again raised a question pertaining to the problems of finance: Is the financial crisis affecting the quality of education at Union? Women's Problems I he second student to speak was . Laura Chakrin, an active member of the Women's Caucus. Restricting her discussion to the v.omen's role on campus, she felt that Union is too male- dominated. She used the example that there are only 18 women faculty members as opposed to 165 men, and strongly urged that an effort be made to increase the number of female faculty members. Ms. Chakrin remarked that the social life was too much taken up with fraternities and recommended that an effort be made to allocate money so students would be able to plan alternative events.· Role Playing Provost Entemen's approach to problems at Union was in terms of its social setting. As he explained, \Tbere is too much role definition and role playing.\ He felt that those at Union take too narrow a perspective. \They lack a sense of humor.'~ We should identify certain problems and then proceed to solve them.\ The Provost then identified one proble'm - the lack of direction of certain students, although he did not offer any suggestion for a solution to the problem. He then emphasized that there are many things right with Union as well. It has put its resources into the curriculum, making it broader and richer than many other colleges. \There is where an educational institution should put it.\ Union's Not That Bad Edward J. Craig, of the Electrical Engineering Department described some of his personal experiences pertaining to Union. \J was imprinted at Union,\ he stated. He presented the audience with the good side of the school through his recollections, which the audience found extremely amusing. Definite Potential Mark Smith, Dean of Students. was the last panelist to speak. He relt strongly . that one should not Tom Watts, Laura Chakrin ond Bruce Sostek at the meeting. let all that is wrong with Union surpass all that is right with Union. Calling it \a great college,\ he felt there is no reason why it should not operate as one. People have a low tolerence level and they lack excitement and effectiveness. Dean Smith sees a tremendous waste at Uni<Jn, an attitude similar to that of Bruce Sostek's. People have a bad habit, and that is to \bitch bitch, bitch.\ He sees a danger in ex.cessive \self-righteous self-interest..,, Dean Smith praised the high quality of Union faculty and adde<l that every~me should get a top quality education at the schooL Open Forum After the presentations were concluded, Steven Stockman opened the flo0r for any re~ctions to a panelist's statement, or to any comments, opinions, or recommendations one wollld wish to make. The topics the students spoke a bout fell into the following categories: The racial problem on campus, the social aspect (student involvement and interaction, women), the academic aspect (including student-faculty relations), and the :student government. A cc-mmon complaint, is that there is iittle or no black-white relationship on campus. One black student explained the situation: \People don't talk to each other - Blacks don't talk to whites, and whites don't talk to blacks.\ Everyone, she said, has something to offer. Another student stated that she felt discriminated against by certain white students and her professors. She felt that certain professors were giving lower grades to blacks than t0 whites possessing the same intelligence. No Social Life Almost everyone :seemed concerned about the socictl life at Union. There is little student interaction, due partially to the lack of places where students can gather, and a lack of weekend social events. Some students felt that they want an alternative to the Skeller atmosphere. A hope was expressed that Vlith the development of the Student Center things would soon improve. Some students felt that the highly competitive atmosphere existing here is hindering many students from interacting with others. One student felt that the housing situation allowing squatter's rights is also preventiqg people from meeting each other- Some Optimitists Some students reacte<! to a student's complaint that the school was being run by an elite few. The student felt that those photo by Cliff Langweiler people who complain are too lazy and/or apathetic to pursue things such as clubs, committees or offices. Another student offered W()rking in the community an alternate for students to get involved. Members of the Women's Caucus strongly urged female students to participate in what they have to offer.· They have c0mm unicated with incoming freshmen women in the hope that they will become aware of the women's situation on campus. When one female student commented that Union women were segregating themselves from men on campus by ~he existence of the Caucus, another student replied to this by saying that it is important for women to know each other also. The subject of security, especially but not exclusively for women, arose stemming from the recent incidents involving some women being attacked on campus. Union's Academics Many students were concerned with certain academic aspects at Union. One student said that \education for the sake of education\ is lacking. He criticized Professor Pott's opinion as \too rigid and career-oriented.\ He spoke of the bureaucracy e~isting in the Art D.epartment and complained that money to th.e college was not being used where it is needed. There were some complaints made pertaining to the existing trimester calendar, howe\er the more immediate concern dealt with the relationship of students to faculty. Advisors The Orientation Commtttee today announced the selection of its advisors for the incoming freshman class next fall. The ad visors will handle all freshmen and transfers entering m September. Chosen are: Cliff Langweiler, Jay Diamond, Mark MacDonald, Lincoln Walworth, Susan Duffel, Michael Carr<lll, Lewis lnsler, Jeff Luck, Bill Katz, Sue Lasker, Sandy Shore, Yvonne Lavender, Howie Sowalsky, Laurie Feldman, Russ Torisi, Jeff Holik, Jeff Bernstein, Dennis Gajewski, Mike Goldsmith, Cindy Wolfson, Judy Arbi, Ellen Rasmussin, Bob Pfefferling, Bob Wilson, Helen Billak, Barxara Burek, Fred Weinstein, Barbara Burri, Dave Ricks, Lisa Tietz, Santi Debriano, Janice Berbrick, Aleisha Jackson, Cand:Y Dunlop, Louise Dunn, Debbie Zimmerman, Tom Watts, Marcia Baity, Jim Kestenbaum, Alan Kusinitz, Pam Anderson, Cindy Greenspan, Patricia Curran, Ann Cashan, Dave One stude~t said that with U mou being a small school, the student- faculty ratio should therefore be ~mall also. She felt that the increasing class size is beginning to be a major obstacle to the type of personal education many students think is valuable. Although there was one complaint of various professors' unwillingness to see students, there were others who felt that they were being given sufficient time and atteAtion when they wanted to speak to their professors. \People must make the effort to see the faculty\ one ~tudent stated. But the question immediately arose as to how to draw the introverted student into the professor's office. A few students commented on the inadequacies of the student government as it presently exists. During the recent elections there were cries for change in government although no alternatives were offered. There was one recommendation made which would separate the trustee elections in the future from the Steering Committee and College Senate elections so everyone might become increasingly aware as to the importance the office of student trustee possesses over all others. The formal discussion ended at approximately 9:45 p.m. and anyone wishing to continue to speak to any panelist could do so on an informal basis. After many problems were finally brought out by this panel discussion, one question remained to be answered: \Where do we go frorn here?\ Selected Hardman, Tom Burbank, Adam Berg, Mary Ellen Chomsky, Lois Timms, Pete Rubin, Sue Hick, Bob Carney, Phil Mueller, Marc Altman, Howie Epstein, Mitch Mindlin, Ayala Rahimi, Marshall Wisoff, Jeff Broomes, John Moessinger, John Glover, Sue Weinstein, Ray Thorman, Nicole Menage, Gene Rosenblum, Celeste Anderson, Doug Alcaide, Dave Mendolson, Paul Magaril, Nina Halpern, Joy Sawyer, Chris F'ink, Bill Martin, Chris O'Connor, Ruthan Rappaport, Bill Underhill, Barbara Roslyn, Marcia Cantor, Lance Jacobson, Barry Rothman, Jim Goldstein, Lauren Weilberg, Donna Sockell and Nancy Golden. The Orientation Committee is comprised of: co-chairmen Dave Heilberg and Sue Brecher; assistant co-chairmen Bill Talis and Berta Hershokowitz; Bruce Dow nsbrough, Debbie Boghosian, Fred Presley, Pat Clarey, Pete McKernan, Lynn Yelton and Harriet Kaplan.

Page4 CONCORDIENSI:S, Thursday, May 23, 1974 &ul:vty R;es•ts: Not Much Doing At the town meeting held last Thursday evening, the majority of students who spoke about \What's Wrong with Union\ complained of the social life. The roncordiensis survey distributed last term delved into some specific causes for the unhappiness. One 4uestion read, \My social life at Union has been hampered by the following: .. and the choices given were, \poor choice of social activities, academic pressure, the male-female ratio, not enough activities, attitudes of the opposite sex, and your own attitudes.\ Poor Choice Important Reason Attitudes of the opposite sex are a hindrance: M. F. :\!f.,!f., ~ f..'IJ!f., ~... • ... ~~ ~ e,lf., ..... ~ ~\0 §' ~ ....-\{:> ~If.,~ .<fi , \c.~ \o v ,- \?-· 9 . 4?' tU 14.9 25.6 23.1 23.4 4.1 12.3 9.6 11.4 34.2 29.S 2;6 Own attitude at fault: e. 9:-~,.; ?!;~ \\~'l.i .. ;;;. !1J ,;, st' .!-.~ o\' . 'll-\\ ~ ~-,.'l.! .f...'V §' . .._ ,::- v c....S ..Y'\J ~~ 'r~ 'r'<(} § 0(;- ,f -_, ' ~<,)* M. 14.6 12.3 27:9 41.9 11.0 2} F 21.1 18.4 19.3 28.9 1.0.5 1.8 Independents vs. Fr.ats Beer Blastr by BILL HENSON The night was perfect. A coo'l, refreshiNg rain had erased t)le depressing mugginess of afternoon. Now a tension hung in the air/Hke the thick, foamy head on a well-poured beer. Time was L'losing in on the commencement ,lf the Third Annual Schenectoga Heer Rally, sponsor-ed by the C~i Psi Lodge. ' l't was a quality field this year. Over 50% of each class agreed to some degree with the statement that their social life has been hempered :by a poor choice of social activities. 37% of aH who answered the question agreed, and 22.4% agreed strongly. In the comments made, much blame was ·put on the Social Committee for the lack of activities. It must be noted, however, that the survey was distributed while the Social Committee was under much criticism; it has since changed hands. 38.7% of the students agreed, and 21.9% agreed strongly, that there are not enough activities offered here at Union. Fraternity members do not seem to find that academic pressures are hampering :their social life as much as independent males do. Wher.eas 20.5% of the independents agreed strongly that academic pressure~ were a problem, only 8.1% of the fraternity members did. Frat m.en. also disagreed more emphatically ( 16.2%) than independents (9:4%). The defending champion, the Heta Bombers, were back, anxious to continue their dominance and eager to soon equate their name with the word dynasty. But the competition was mean and hungry, all anxiously a wa,iting their chance to topple the best. lhe rookie sensations of last year, the Chi Psi Pledge Squad, now the Seasoned Sophomores, solemnly arrived in a spacious pick-up, the hack laden with mattresses. They had Schenecu~ga screamers swiftlyswaltow Schlitz . Academic Pressure Academic pressure was cited as a great hindrance to social life on campus. The freshmen felt the pressure most, 42.9% of the freshmen agreed, while 33.1% of all students questioned agreed. Several students felt that the existence of \throats\ is one of the three greatest problems here at Union. Male-Female Ratio Brothers in the frats seemed to be more critical of the Union women's attitudes than were independents, while the independents were more critical of their own attitudes. (It should be noted that 235 independents were questioned but only 73 frat members.) fraternity members seemed more satisfied with the socia:J. life at Union than independent -males. The following chart represents the responses to the question, \I am satisfied with my social life at Union.\ ~~ <fi ~ ~~r:. ~ ru ~\\'IJ ;:;;, .-... ·~~ ~~ 'J)oc,o § \'~ ~ ~\'</·~ ~ ~ c,.S.o .¢~ - ~~ \?'\() \r'cl ,q 4<,f ind 20.3 32.6 11.4 24.2 11.0 .4 fr. 1.9 18.4 21.1 40.8 11.8 As was expected, many men It seems that those complaints felt that their social life was voiced at the Town Meeting were hampered by the male-female representatives of the majority of ratio here. Whereas· 29.8% of the . students . at Union College. men agreed and 25.9% agreed According to the survey, many strongly that the ratio was a students who would not choose hindrance, the largest percentages Union again would do so due to of women disagreed strongly their unhappiness with the social (38.9%), or remained neutral life here. Perhaps the suggestions (20.4%). offered at the meeting - a Attitudes at Fault College Center, more personal involvement, and more part:ies and get-togethers - should be seriously considered. gone down to defeat one 'year ago by a mere 52 seconds and had for the first time, was the lone committed themselves to righting representative from Lenox Road. that wrong .. They were out for The fina}_ fratemityteam, DU, brew. was t'he dark horse ofthe rally. In .Just then, a blare w.as heard the past they had• not finished in from the distance. Heads turned. the money ·but everyone knew the A powerful jeep thundered into potential was there. Finally, the the starting area and came to a lone independent team was halt. Out popped five grinning registered. Their exp1oits had preppies-the Psi U entry! \Why been well known in the Skellar, the relaxed looks of confidence but they had graduated to the big and the easy-going smiles,\the league. Could they stand up to the crowd asked, \did they have test? something up their sportscoats?\ Everyone seemed familiar with A few whispers were muttered, a the rules of the race~ but they were few bets placed. The four were in explained once more for a frenzy. Rarely had such clarification. Each team was to unequaled talent gathered in one consist of four drinkers and a field to drink in one race. As the driver. Each squad was allowed a cameras continued to click, the manager if they so desired, to crowd, spectators and handle' the money, lunch bags, participants alike, realized that munchie food,and so on. The rally history was being made. One was to comprise II stops, four rookie racer, unnerved by it all, beers to be consumed at each. A suddenly gulped ·down three beers statement of proof would have to in an attempt to 'gather his wits be signed by the bartender at each and strengthen his wrists. A few stop for every team. Several veterans woefully looked on, judges along the way were to concerned over the rookie's determine if the contestants fully masochistic tendencies and downed their beers. From the praying for the repose of his next-to-last bar, D'Andreas, two stomack. members of each squad were Slowly the field rounded out. required to run to the final stop, Heta, tr17e. to tradition, entered The Hub, before downing their· two additional teams. The fans d ft h b d . h ra s. cou~d ?ot elp . ut a I?ire t e Everything was finally set. The ded1cat10n of this David of a judges synchronized watches and house-only 16 . bro~hers and yet -the officials took off for the finish three teams. Chi Psi also ~~tered line. The road was cleared. The two more squ~ds, both_leglhm~te first squad, Sigma Chi; (one team contenders. Slgm~ Chi, entenng was to leave ev,ery fi:ve minutes) Women tended to blal];le men's attitudes more for the inadequate social life here at Union than the men blamed the women. Males were also more critical of their own attitudes than the females questioned were. Arrival 'of Winterset If it was murder, wher:e·s the body? If it was for a woman, which woman 1 If it•s only a game, why the blood? Baldasare as the Girls, Mik.: Perlman as the Policeman and by DR. PAN GLOSS In Winterset, Anderson 'Was Charles Fenson as the Sergeant. trying to create a cla~sic . All in all, this play is very American tragedy along the lines dtfferent than all the other plays of the great Greek tragedies. The plot in Winterset has the same pattern as that in Romeo and .tJuliet, a love story between two teenagers wh·o are pulled apart by their loyalties to their families. Although there are other aspects to the play, director Chris Kennedy focuses on the love story ~ct in the gangland of the lower cast side of Manhattan in 19 35. done this year by Mountebanks. and is worth seeing. The play runs Thursday through Saturday, at the N ott MemoriaLCall 370-6 153 for reservations. photo by Les Kernen took their positions at the starting table. They were required to guzz,le a brew before leaving for the .first bar. At precisely 8:45 pm Sigma Chi departed. A few decorated sidewalks and upset st~machs later, it was all over, ·as Jhe last racers struggled into the Jam-pack~-dHub. - One Chi Psi team was disqualified, another came in too fast. The Beta champs were delayed by a long, slow train, losing valuable time. Could fate have been playing a hand in the course of events? Psi U had it wr<\pped up. DU iooked real tough. · -The people grew restless. What was taking so long'! A new barrage of ru.mors and stories sprung from all directions. Finally, a judge mounted the bar and demanded silence. He held two trophies, one for second place, the other for first. \In second place,\ one could almost feel the tension as he spoke-; \driver John ... \ A shout went up. Wl'lo got it? Psi U! Psi U had taken second. Congratulations were awarded. Everyone figured they were in the runaing But who was the charrip? The judge patiently waited for the second place finishers _ to rei inq uish the spotlight and· for the commotion to subside. Slowly it did.· Now the big ane! The house was so tense you could hear a beer spill. \In first place, the driver, Tom Goematt.\ No more was needed. From all corners of the Hub came shouts and congratuiations. lhen two rnem .. hers of the victory squad va lilted the bar accepting the tro~hy and proudly holding it high, losing themselves in the captivating ecstasy of victory. Affter a year's absence, first place had come home to Chi Psi! Gov't A remarkable facet of this productiOn is that Kennedy is using a large number·of freshmen 111 leading roles. The leads are plap.:d by Steve Solomon and A ll i s o n D o ne n f e I d , b o t h appearing in their first major roles at Union. Chuck H ollenian plays the .father, and Mike Alexander turns in a convincing performance as the insane Judge. The rest of the cast is filled Oil: t by Bruce Harvey as Track, Leonard Lee as Shadow, Lee Meisel as Garth, Cobb Milner as Carr, Chuck Rothman as the Hobo, Marc Brilliant as the Radical, Blair Reischer as the street pia110 player, Ellen Radock as the ap,ple lady, AI Bernstein and Mike Densmore as the gangsters, Charlyce Jones and Charmaine Continued from Page 2 vote. It's all there in our very own f~11stitution for Student C1nernment. It's time that we as students got off our asses. learned \\h :Jt the student government can rca llv do. and then go out and • a c c: ;) m r I i \ h ~ n m. e t h i n g PALOMAil PIC TUlE.:> 1\- IT llMTI0'-1\l LAURENCE MICHAEL OLIVIER CAINE TWENTIETH ~ ~ CENTUAY·FOX Date Sat... , Sun. May 25 & 26. Time Sat. 7:00, 9:30, 12:00; Sun. 7:00, 9:30. Place SS_ 016. ACimission 50¢. Allison Donenfeld and Steve Solomon in Winterset; pnot(> by Cindy Wolfson constructive. For past misfortunes, we can blame the .IL\rry Garcia -type movements and the people imolvcd in them. We can also blame our own apathy. But in the future we have·a brand nc'\.v boo.k, a clean slate. So you can. as the commercial says, \pay now or ... pay later.'; l•:ditors' note: The next issue of ('oncordy will contain an article on who to go to and how to get things done at Union College. ·-\\- , .. M -'~~.A& . :an~Ye s ... ...,....,... I .- .... -.. -(clowl!aOWD ~) · i· - ( Ko in. Ri< rev les! tall riel !WI loo qw int• 1101 me tha SO( lea he1 cle the we I the the wit he1 COl COl wh pr< \0 sta the pri Ill qu fro sin us au Me th~ reJ \C im wh as I ju~ ~lf di~ spc lo< dif wt ve1 the ''F W( ph pe kt at m, sl1 H lit sc ch Cl fn .I<J ki ar [) L'l: if a 111 d< to

s e j e CONCORD/ENSIS, Thursday, May 23, llp4 Page 5 Poet: Le Pitz K ostelanetz by BILL TALIS Working w.ith no funds and Mailroom Jeopardy only scrap materials, a group of The Cabaret is independent of by DANIJi:L VALENTI dedicated students established one the Mountebanks; this was done of'the greatest social activities in 10 . ~vert any impressions of the history of the College the chqwshness or of a closed Cabaret. Opening night ' last organization. \We're _trying to get Thursday brough an overflow as ~an~ J?eople. mvolved as crowd te the S.tudent Center .from possible, sa1d Smith. 9 p.m. until closing at 2 a.m. . The , Cabaret's exist~nce is Under rhe direction of Barry .J~opardtzed. by the _tenta t1ve plans Smith, the group that built l~r the mailroo'!l m the Student Cabaret on ingenuity, ~enter. $30,~00 IS to be ~llocated craftsmanship, and perseverance fl~r the ma1.Ir~om, whtch may includes Joseph Millet, Tim displace or ehrnmate the Cabaret. Doyle, Bernard Carey, Karen Although the Cab~ret workers Hernhold, Jerry Coleman, Steve we~e aware that their area was Soloman, Jonie Levinson, and designated for the new mail- On Tuesday, May 21 Richard Kostelonetz gave a poetry read.ing in Arts 202. H the critical prose of Richard Kostelanetz were being reviewed, there would .be much less of a problem. But we are .talking about his poetry and fiction, if the definition of these two words may be temporarily loosened tq fit the work in 4uestion. It's not that the intentions of Mr. Kostelanetz are not dear, for he certainly puts his message out in the open; it's jt.Jst that his work, like rock candy, soon wears off in· effect, thus leading to a conflict of sorts between one's admiration for his cleverness and one's ennui once the novelty of his image~poems wears off. Richard Kostelanetz a \'different\ poet. Lee Bloomrosen. room, they sense a lack of · priorities and consideration in the If Mctuhan is correct about the medium being the message, then Mr. Kostelanetz is in trouble with his readers and his audience, because his · medium is so constrained. In his poems, he confines himself to a key word which then is manipulated to produce a meaning, as in \Disintegration where the word starts at the top of the page and then dissolves. as the. word is printed successively downward, or in \Arise ... which is simply: AR'ISE RISE ISE SE E · This may be witty, but the question of \Where do you go from there?\ is never answered, since Mr. Kostelanetz never takes us beyond this. E.ven if such audacious pronouncements as McLuhan's will not do, ther~ is the nagging consideration of repressing one's urge to say \Cute .b4t so·. Wh!it1:' 1!-,nd say instead \Brilliant! What's next?\ which many in an audience will ask !;'ather t]lan admit they have jusf finished spending two hours of their precious time being disappointed. As a poet, you' can spend just· so much energy looking for different ways to be different until you reach the point where you're being ·different in very regular and repetitious ways. The most interesting poem of the evening was the episodic- \Football Form,\ where~ the words \Offense Team\ runs .a play against the words \Defense Team,\ which has to be the most monumental play on words since the word magic of Joyce in Finnegan's Wake. It is interesting to note, though,. that even in abandoning linear language for wh~t he calls his poetic \radical alternative,\ Mr. Kostelanetz still depends very much on a sequential building up to his statements. The second half of the presentation dealt with Mr. K.ostelanetz' fiction. As with· poetry, his fiction is \jokey.\ After seven attempts to start his first novel in styles copied from (l ther works he had read and liked, he chose to answer the 4 uestion of \how to succeed Joyce and Kafka\ by . expanding hackneyed 19th century fictional methods into ·a new style. of expression that I. would be so constrained that you couldn't do .. normal\ things in it, and 2. took the page as the integral part of developing the sequences of a plot. Kostelanetz argues that the cohesive elements of fiction should not be the word and the sentence: pages of prose do not a .story make. It is what he calls \the invention of st\lff' that makes for fiction, wbere the story proceeds one image to a page. Using such mysterious titles as \In the Beginning was the Alphabet\ (I love that), .. The End and the Beginning,\ and \Revelation where four black rectangles move. in on each other to form. a Cross which then· e-xpands to blacken out the screen, the author tries to make us wrestle stories out of his handiwork, which, to most of the audience Tuesday nigbt in Arts 202, was like . trying to get the story out of a set of hieroglyphics without the Rosetta Stone. Review: Billy Jack ' by JACK PITNEY .. Assssssooofff' say Billy Jack's See Billy Jack. He _ 1s a victims. peaceloving man. He is also a What of the producers who kung~fu artist. See Billy Jack - made twenty million dollars from attack his enemies in slow this cheapjack movie? They don't ril.otion. See their bodies twist say anything. They just smile. slowly, slowly in the wind. Why does he resort to violence? He wants to protect the lovely little children in the village free school. The Bad Guys call the children nasty names. The Crooked Cops wan~ to send them . 1 . hack home to the ghetto. Billy .lack decides he has to maim and kill in order to protect the peace __ ....,. __ - ·l8VfS Of .course, Mr. Kostelanetz implies we are aU hung up on tradition who do not accept his work as \poetry'~ and as \fiction and, maybe in the end, he will prove to be right.._ One has the sneaking suspicion that he is. He belieVes that art doesh 't generate from within, hut from the outside, and that to produce art, one must go out and find it. If he is again correct in this assumption, then his rebellion against ·linear verbalization in favor of ~ isualization and stylization is fed from the outside, from a ·culture that, like everything else, wants its poetry freeze-d.ried, and instant. If not.hing else, the work of Richard Kostelanetz is \art for our times\; poetry-at-a-glance. Why puzzle over the sonnets of D.ylan Thomas, the Cantos of Pound, the · dreamsongs of 'Berryman, when Wt:; can get it all in a· wort;l? A valid question, it pains me to admit. * • • • * Cabaret needs Talent proposed rna iJ- room Harry Smith pointed out that development. Should it be forced' the Cabaret was not intended to out of Carnegie, there would, at compete with ·Coffeehouse or present, be no place for the other acrlvities, and that the Cabaret to move to. \We were programming, on a weeknight, ~victed frcm the third fllor of the ·was designed so that conflicting Nott, because it was condemned. activities would be minimized. We need to occupy a large \Our biggest problem, however,\ territory for the Cabaret, food Smith stated, \is to uncover and and drink preparation, ami the rind talent with quality on design and maintenance of the campus. It's there, and we know Cabaret. If they decide to move it. We just have to get these us, it comes bake to, who does the people to get involved.\ moving.\ Mr. Smith pointed out Ne.eds Funds t_hat when equipment is moved .. . . . from department to department, , fmancial constramts may funds are allocated specifically for hamper the Cabaret, however. the purpo\'e When th D t' c b , · · h · ., · e rarna 1cs a a ret s constitUtion as J~st or Arts Departments is moved, no b~en ~PPfOVed by the Steenng money is available. The burden C o~m1ttee, so that fund~ for falls on the faculty in those mamtenance are not yet avatlable. departments. and the students Leroy Moore, who arranged for 1 ·nvolved ••Tht's dl' ·p t ;, h d · d · h · ss1 a es energy, t. e space esJgnat~ m t e said Smith. \We will have Student Center, contnbuted $100 difficulty in sustaining the to the Cabaret, .. and the Arts Cabaret. We need faculty support ~)epartment contnbuted $ 50 for to devote more time to such lo~d. Dec.or of the Cabaret r?o~ projects. We are now understaffed was provided by Barry Smith 8 and unqerbudgeted. What we 11nask cfass: and work was done need. is another full-time faculty by the Actmg Class. member.\ Li~e ,At Conception by CYNTHIA YOUNG certain property without which general contraceptive, Professor Philosopher Baruch Brody, one would cease to exist. Brody's Brody advocates the use of a new Professor of Philosophy at M.I.T. definition of life then is that point technique, menstrual abstraction, and author of Abortion and the when the brain beginsto·functiorl. 'to do away with any egg that Sanctity of Human Life lectured In the fetus, this begins around might have been fertilized before on \The Humanity of the Fetus\ the end of the sixth week ·after implantation. This would then Tuesday afternoon in SSSOI6. conception. ••The fetus' neural certainly be before \humanity\ Brody feels that it is necessary structures do not suddenly . flick had begun and would also be to ·define life before one can into existence, the earliest more efficient as a contraceptive determine exactly when it begins. presence of any neural structure, • then present methods which But, the criterion for humanity though c-ertainly not operating, require constant remembering. can only be defined by human seems to be .around the end of the Brody's talk stimulated several values. Any decision on the fourth week. By the end of the angry responses from the definition of humanity must he in eighth week, the fetus can audience. One male student accord with the moral sensibilities re~pond to• sti~lmlus. and by the argued that abortion should not of the people of that society. third month, It begms to ·move be allowed for any reason except Although Brody does concede , spontaneously.\ Thus, Brody ~an to save the life of the mother, that defining the essence of not morall~ accept any abortion And several female students felt humanity gets into metaphysical after the sixt_h week. For most that the right for a child to be problems that are impossible to women- , t h! s mea n s that wanted . should take pr~cedence solve he does attempt to disprove confirmation of pregnancy has over even Brody's definition .of a ~rgu~ents both for and.. against not been de_ter~ined or eve.n child's rigll~ to \humanity\ or Hf:. . b 1 . suspected. Essentially, Brody Is Each of these are vahd a Of lOU. d . h b J' • f An essential focal point of avo~atmg t e a o ltlon .o argume_n~s ·Of the heated a~na of B d , t · · d' v· g abort10n as a contraceptive determmmg the morahty of ro y s argumen 1s m 1spro m . h d d h (' · th . th th t J'f d. met o an ~as a met od 10t abortion. Professor Brody's e eory a 1 e, an . . . d humanity, begin at the point of, terminating unwante philosophic arguments, however, conception. The assignment of pregnancies. . see me~ to be based ~n very sound genetic information is not a For cases of rape, and even as a r~asonmg and ex penmen tal data. determining point of humanity since genes only program eventual human characteristics. \Potentiality\ of existence is not sufficient to determine life. What then is essential for being a human being? Hrody answers that it is the possession of a The Boot•ry ;t nd ~ccurity of his friends. Doesn't that sound like someone dse we know? See the photography. Looks as if the cameraman took potluck at a sale of second..:hand insta- matics. See the acting, What, you don't see any acting? You'll have to look a lot harder. fftlchll'ain/ 1/trmonl The characters say , many ,profound things. \I love Billy Jack,\ says the schoolmarm. \I 'love 'the harmony of the tfniverse,\ says Billy Jack. . LeVI'S expert instructiPn Iii the .lteni£ .hi/11 ur Ver/llont OORII ·S'l'YLB LODGIRG .Aim ALL MEALS JULY 7 -27~--t4SO--LIMITBD BRROLtMD~. WRl!B--THB Mnufs BB. tW~SIIOP CHUEAV ·ECOLE, PITTSP'ORD_, V'l. 0S763 147JAY ST. .. 147 JAY ST. HAND SEWN STEERHIDE MOCCASINS MEN'S WOMEN's $31.95- $27.95-

Page 6 BLITHER Security has fou~d a c\alculator and other items, which are waiting to he claimed. So· if you have lost something, get in touch with the Security Office. That's what counts! * * * * If anyone has found a small pink buddha charm, please contact Julie Rothenstein, 370-6483. * * * * Wanted: \Big brother\ or \Big sister\ to befriend a troubled teen or two or three. Toss a hall around - do a little woodworking - talk awhile - go for a ride - find a mutual interest. If you feel you could develop a rapport with a young person, are dependable, and have a few hours a week to contribute for the next few months, the Schenectady Volunteer Bureau would like to hear from you. Call 372- 3395. * * * * Prof. Yuri Glazov of Boston College wiH lecture on Pasternak and Solzhenitsyn on Wednesday, May 29, from 1:30 to 3:30 p.m. in HU 115. * * * * Attention biology and chemistry majors interested in a career ir. immunology or pharacology: Two speakers from Sterling Winthrop Research Institute will discuss their careers in these exciting fields on Wednesday, May 29, at 8:30p.m. in the Hale House Student Lounge. All are welcome. * * * * Irving Powless, Jr. will be the fourth speaker for the American Indians Comp. Ed. course. Powless, an Onondaga chief, who has been active in the fight' against New York State control over Indian affairs, will speak in Strauss Lounge on May 29 at 10:30 a.m. * * * * There will be a piCnic for all Big Brothers and Big Sisters and their kids on Friday afternoon, M'I.Y Jl, at 4 p.m. in Jackson's Gardens. Food, games, fun - everything is included! Please make a special effort to attend, since this is the last activity .of the year. * * * * Starting this week, student-faculty discussion groups will be held at various spots throughout the campus. This week's discussion, to be held on Wednesday, May 29 at 8 p.m. in the West College Library, wiql include Provost Entetnan and Prof. Byron Nichols. The focus will be on social and academic life at Union and the possibilities for improvement. All students and faculty are welcome. * * * * All seniors who have been accepted at one or more law schols are urged to come to the Political Science Office in the SS Building to fill out a very short form. The Poly Sci Dept. needs to know where CONCORDIENSI~: Thursday, May 23, 1974 students have been accepted and plan to go, in order to provide the greatest assistance to Union College students in the future. * * * * There will be a Spring Term Bash in Davidson House Lounge and Courtyard on Friday night, May 24, starting at 9 p.m. There will be free beer, soda, munchies, music, and volleyball. All are invited to come over and get looped before the Marx,. Brothers movie. * * * * Thursday, May 30, at 2:30 p.m. in Old Chapel, Nancy Fischer and Steve Bussolari will present traditiona;J ballads of the British Isles in an informal musical program, tracing the popular ballad of the Middle Ages as a cultural reflection of English Society. * * * * The Alumni Day Committee invites graduating seniors and their families to an Alumni Day Family Picnic to b~ held Saturday, June 15, at Girling Center, 12:30-2:30 p.m. Seniors ~re invited as guests. of President Harold Martin. Prices for family members and guests are $2.50. Reservations. may be made with Mrs. Witxeck in the Alumni Qf,fice, I amont House, by May 31. * * * * Attention bike freaks: People are needed to help with a bike safety clinic for elementary school kids on Friday, May 31, from 1:00-3:15 p.m., at the Elmer Ave. School. Contact Bob Cable, 377-6711. * * * * A duel will be fought this Friday at 12:30 on Library Green between Paul Grover Daniel and Lord Charles C. Holleman I. All are invited to attend. * * * * Needed: Items to furnish and decorate the room designated the Women's Center in the College Center. The undergraduate coeds have cleaned up the room and will accept new and setond-hand articles. Call Marge 'Clark, at 6161. * * * * A couple of extra bus seats are available for the Comp. Ed. 44 field trip to New York City. Date: May 25, Saturday. Departure at 8 a.m. from Memorial Chapel. The bus will leave New York at 11 p.m. from Lincoln Center and arrive in Schenectady around 2 a.m. The price is $7.50~ Contact Prof. Freund in 210 Humanities. * * * * Big Spring Bash in Jackson's Gardens Tuesday, May 28 at 8 p.m. Everyone is invited for beer and band. Sponsored by the girls of Union College. Rain date: Thursday, May 30, at the same place and time. Mary Kingham, I 02 North. * * * * There wiJJ be an important meeting of all junior P.S. majors at 8 p.m. on Wednesday, May 29, in SS 115. Business to be conducted includes arranging for senior project advisor assignments and electing the senior major representatives and alternates. * * * * · The Union College term- abroad program for next spring is taking shape at this time. The German program will b~ in Schwabisch Hall, Germany (rather than Vienna) and the Sp<~.nish program will be Bogota, ( 'olumbia (rather than Seville). See Pr()f. Warae i.n Modern Ia nguag es for details and applica~ion' forms. * * * * . W R lJC will cease broadcasting June 12.for the summer vacation. I he station will resume operation approxim.ately mid-September and will have mail service during the entire summe.r. * * * * Wanted: A used 10 speed bike \\ ith 27\ rims. Any condition ~Considered. Contact Tony Rommanazzi, South Ill or call syntex 6486 after 6 p.m. * * * * A showing of the film \Metropolis\ will be held in SS Olo on Monday, May 27, 1974 at 7:30 P.M. Admission is Free. \Metropolis a silent film made in Germany in 1926, stars Alfred Abel, Gustav Froelich,. and Hriggett Helm and is directed by Fritz Lange. The film is billed as the \first and greatest of science fiction films\ and features \tremendous action · and spectacle.'\' -- -- . Lev1:s ONCE A KNIGHT, BEING SUNK SO DEEP IN THE SEA Of DESPONDf BY HIS FAILURE WITH WOMEN, DID RETREAT DEEP INTO THE FOREST WITH A VOLUME OF MOST MELANCHOL-Y VERSE. WHENCE HIS ROOMIE, A DRAGON, DIL? COME UPON HIM AND DID TELL HIM OF A WONDROUS ·WAY TO BY MEANS OF THE ANCIENT ART OF THE 5TREAKE. - AND SO, OVER A COUPLE OF FROSTY- COLD CAI\IS OF SCHAf;:'FER-- THE BEER THAT DREAMS ARE BUiLt UPON-- THEY DID PLOT THf KNI6HT'S MAIDEN STREAKE. AND UNDER THE. WATCHFUL EYE OF HIS MENTOR, THE KNIGHT DID PROCEED TO PERFECT HIS STREAI<ING · Sf<tLLS... TO THE GENERAL AMUSEMENT OF ALL THE FURRY BEASTES. - ,.r ATTRACT THE OPPOSITE SEX. AT LAST HE PROVED READY FOR HIS BIG STRE/\I<f:. AND DID S~T OUT ON HIS WAY ... ACHIEVING SUCH A GREAT VELOCITY THAT HE DID ZIG WHEN HE SHOULD HAVE ZAGGED. PROVING ONCE AGAIN: BEING THE OPEN MAN IS MUCH BETTER IN BASKET- BALL THAN IN LIFE, Schaefer Breweries, New York, N.Y., Balti~ore, Md.,Lehigh Valley, Pa. I I

term- is The be in the ogota, and ration bike dition Tony call film n SS at film stars by as and ·'113 ALBANY ST. Nc dtnl'ery ~harxe with two·B rot pizzas. WIDIU¥U IIN'I'IL MIDNIGII'I' 'c.l314-5,. DARI- TREET 'Scudent DltcG ••. (willa 1.1)'.) 2fM9 Van VraDkm aton.-Frl • ..,, $lat • ..., 377w4~l ''A QUIET BAR ••. A PLACETO TALK'~ mE Red Fox Inn · PIZZA FRIDA.YA SATURDA.Y S..l2 P.M. , IUD BY THi PITCHER ' I . , - lZJ JAY ST. SCHENECTADY •For three Gemerations.' Jhose Who Know ••• Have been recommending • . HERSHEL MAURICE B WALTER ''3 Union Graduates in Graubart F'amiJy•• 166 JAY ST.- FOR HONEST SERVICE AND GOOD JEWELRY

Page 8 CONCORD!ENSJS, Thursday, A;fay 23, 1974 ~~--------------------------------- Union nipped by Geneseo in Finals 9-7 by FRANCESCO ISGRO A nea-r perfect Lacrosse season was stained last Saturday, after a heartbreaking 9-7 loss to visiting Geneseo State, in the championship game of the Eastern Collegiate Athletic Conference Up-State New York Lacrosse Tournament. On the previous day, the Dutchmen overpowered RIT 22~J.O in the preliminary nmnd, while Geneseo routed Hartwick 15-2. Friday's game against RIT was sparked by the brilliant offense of the combined trio of Walker, Grossman and Thompson. Co- Captain Dennis Walker led the 'coring with 9 goals upping his total tallies to 51, while teammate Grossman provided 11 assists bringing his total number of assists to 60. Freshman John Thompson added a hat-trick and one assist. Midfielders Bob Grabo and Stan O'Brien combined for two goals each. Tallying one each were John Eklund, Jim Thompson, Charlie Howe, Jim Collin and Bruce Davis. Steve Haddad starred as the goalie making eight saves. Also on Friday, Robert Grossman was presented with a trophy for being selected as the hest · Lacrosse player in the Capital District. Each year the Mohawk Lacrosse Club asks the coaches of Siena, RPI, Albany and Union to select three of their best players to compete for the honor. Coach Allison had sel- ected, Grossman, Walker and Dave Hockschartner. Grossman became the Club's choice in virtue of his outstanding showing throughout the season. A large crowd was at hand on Saturday for the championship game against Geneseo. A carpet of human bodies covered Daley's Hill and attendance must have heen near one thousand. The Garnet opened the scoring early in the game, as Gressman assisted first Walker and then Don Ward to propel the team to a 2-0; lead. Geneseo came right back, but ·was held from scoring by Ritchie who made some impressive saves. With about five minutes left in the first period, Union was forced in a defensive position but Geneseo managed to sco_re 3 goals. · t and thus take the lead. The first half of the second period was played evenly with both teams exchanging points. Then with about 7 minutes left Ritchie adventured too far out of the net and although Mike Garone and Bill Garofalo tried to replace him Geneseo came through with a good shot. Union had a couple of attempts afterward both by Grossman and . Walker, but Geneseo's goalie saved. The Garnet were inflicted another two wounds as they fell behind 2-6. Then with 2 minutes left and after a round of attempts which were routed by the impressive Geneseo defense, Walker managed to score on an assist from Grossmann. At the end of the half the score stood at 3-6. Senior attaekman ·Dennis Walker scored a total of 13 goals in the two game ECA C Lacrosse toutnament to bring his total thu~ far to an amazing 60 goals. A college record setting JiO game win )ltreak was smtpped Saturday in the finals of the ECAc· Upstate . New York Tournament as Union fell 9-7 to Geneseo State. EaFlier in the week the Dutchmen downed Wesleyan 16-12, and Rochester Tech 22,.JO in the first round of the ECAC event. Against Wesleyan, it was a fourth quarter burst led by senior ·.inidifield.er Stan O'Brien (Dorchester, Mass.) that carried the day. Leading by one, 10~9 early ·in the fourth quarter, O'Brien, who just recently has . emerged ·as a'n offensive threat, scored three goals and assisted on two others to ice the decision; Against Rochester Tech,. senior attackman Dennis Walker (Freeport, N.Y.) scored nine goa,Is and junior attackman Bob Grossmann (N. Bellmore, N.Y.) assisted on a Union record 11. · goals as the Dutchmen won easily. In the ECAC final, some early lapses were costly as Union could not come back from a 6-2 second quarter deficit. Grossmann assisted ·· on six of · seven goals in that game, four of • which were scored by Walker. Going into the final- game, Grossmann has 19 goals and 71 assists for a Union record 90 points and fo.r his efforts this spring has· won the Mohawk . Lacrosse Club annual trophy as the best collegiate player in the Cap.ital District. Walker has set a new Union goals record with 60 which, with nine assists, gives him 69 points. The third attackman, freshman John Thompson Larchmont, N .. Y.), now has 30 goals and 15 assists for 45 points. Complete final statistics will be mailed later this week. TENNIS Union concluded its best season in 60 years with a 5-4 win over Middlebury, the only club to top the 5-l Dutchmen team a year ago. Junior captain Kevin Crawford (Cranston, R.I.) won his match to finish the season 8-l in the number singles position. The eight victories in a season is a Union record. Geneseo opened the scoring in the third period with I :33 gone in the clock. Eleven seconds later, John Thompson maoe the fans roar as he netted in a shot, on an assist from Grossman. Luck seemed to have been on the side of Geneseo, as the Garnet's offense failed to score a couple of times, because the ball hit the goal posts. Nevertheless, it hecame dear that Union was now on the offensive. With 2 minutes left Geneseo managed to capitalize on one play to up its score to an 8-4 lead over Union. But 16 seconds later Bob Grabo showed Geneseo that his team was still in the game, and with 8 seconds left in the period Walker added another goal assisted by Grossman, bringing the Garnet within two points from Geneseo Garnet mangle R.P.I. 10- 1 by CHARLIE FLANAGAN Kevin Crawford and Roman Rackozy will represent Union in the Eastern Regionals in an Inter- Collegiate Tournament next Friday, Saturday a11d Sunday. TRACK All three Union entrants in the Brockport Invitational placed as junior Dave Ricks was second in the decathelon, sophomore Milt Herring ran a 9.9 • 100 for third place and junior Bill Mowery had a 50' toss for tbird place in the shot put. Ricks won the pole vault, the high jump and 11le 1,500 meter events in the decathelon as he totalled 6,191 points. GOLF Senior Bob Gronauer (Briarcliff Manor, N.Y.J shot a 78 and sophomore Dave Papa (Albany, N.Y.) had a 79 as Union defeated Oneonta State 417-444 and close out the season with a 4-3 record. Attention: Students interested in participating in a fall ~ymposium as a joint effo~t of the International Relat1ons Club and Political Forum, there will be a meeting of minds. Tuesday in SSJ15 at 4:30 p.m. Any and all ~uggestions are welcome. at 6-8. rhe Dutchmen entered the fourth stanza determined to please the roaring crowd. The Genj!seo defense played a vital role in this last period, holding off Union's thirsty offense. With 5:37 left, Walker finally managed to capitalize on an assist from Grossman bringing the score to a ·7-8. The crowd roared .again, and by now everyone was standing up. But determined Geneseo was able to score once again and with three minutes left in the game, Geneseo was crowned ECAC champion. The Garnet have still one game left to play as they visited Dartmouth yesterday. As the Union College baseball team had just finished roasting thei-r Thanksgiving turkey early this year, Pilgrim Arthur C. J·.awrence quoth \Nice season. I getta go see a Buddy. Nutshell.\ Even Miles Standish couldn't have witnessed a better feast as Union drubbed arch-rival RPI 10- 1. Union seemed to rise with the temperature as they pounded 04t a total of 16 hits and won going away. Union jumped on RPI starter Tom Juknis and battered him incessantly until he was lifted in the 5th inning. Juknis had shut out the Dutchmen a Week earlier. -A usually vociferous R PI unit was quieted and awed at the Garnet's display. The only noise heard Wii.S the close of a Calculus Hook ending the 9th inning. Union was led at the plate by Co- captain Gino Quirk. Gino ended his brilliant career by lashing out 4 hits including a triple and double. Dandy Don Milder also had 4 hits while Co-captain Skip l.ega finished his U Coli baseball days with three. Greg Breedlove, Gary Borgese, and Rolf Wandel added insult to injury. Meanwhile ··smokin\ Joe Urschel was holding the Engineers to a mere 5 hits; and looked true to form. The RPI game saw Union finally put it together. Union combined an awesome offensive attack balanced with a fine defensive display.- Every inning saw the Dutchmen have a picnic on RPI pitches. The victory was a nice going Fteshman John Thompson flings, versus .R.l.T. Friday, a game which Union eas.ily won 22- ..., JQ; photo credit Leslie Steineker away present for Gino, Skip, and Rolf and also added incentive for next year's team. One injuroo ankle and one disabled 'chicken wing hurt the Dutchmen this past year. U Coil baseball should be back on to.p next year. -7*. *ttNPitF#_* ENGLISH WINNERS The Department of English has selected the winners of foiJr writing competitions sponsored annually at the College. Professor Nelson has announced the following names as authors of the best work submitted this year. The Van Orden Prize, for the best essay submitted by a freshman, goes to Patricia Berlin, '77, in the amount of $100. The Allen Essay Prize is awarded for the hest piece of non-fiction submitted by a member of the senior class. First place (.in the amount of $100) was won by Judy Steinbach, '74; second place ($50) by Sandra Mercaldi, '74. First place in the Yudis Prize competition, fot the best work of fiction. was won ov Mark Mindel, '74 who will rt>cei~c $100 ShcWOn Grollma n. '7fo. took second place for $50. Honorable Mention was given to Scott Wittet, '76, Richard Maid, '14,. Lynn Wintriss, '75, and Makoto Hirano, '77. An award for the best Work in poetry is made on several campuses each year . by the Academy of Arrl'erican Poets. The winner at Union (for a prize of $100) is Jennifer M. Reece. '74. The Department also announced that all students who submitted entries may retrieve their submissions in Humanities 212, at any time before the end of the term. by resigne Union here. J the ad admini Mo< Union profita learne< UniQil' all le~ are in Union figure open comm togeth Des1 \strain tensen that a1 all gr, the d~ predic to dec with t \Re that ~ soon. claims or a y Opt ••Ther1 says t evider evalu~ .. M:oTI of th~ every< aware evalm town Andel SatJlr' make Mo impm in irr: attitu' colleg apprc neede qualil says make estab: sort. Re: Moo1 respo much the oppo for WoUll finan also with atten relat1 add it was; J\!1 life Sun :bon Rye serv bei11 atte athl COD I s Bar1 all~ dau ·KOJ Ma: I\

w ;:tpped the York to 22\10 was a en 10~9 arter, has on ion. enior Bob Y.) 11 . won nion 6-2 cit. of of lker. 71 90 this awk as the 60 him son 30 be for ast be a he or he by ce 6, 0 0 Pre-Stucco painting contest on the walls of Sodal Sciences and Hum~tnities Next Week! Vol. 103, No,.'23 ffil·. ' ~ am sure cares an enemy to life. Sir Toby Belch Thursday, May 30, 1974 ., 35 eents EDWARD FOX BLUES BAND and Dry Jack & refreshments Sat., June 1, Library Plaza, I p.m. . Moore ReSigns The Dow of· UColl by CINDY .SIIE:PPARD Leroy Moore, Assistant Oe!)n of Students and Coordinator .of The Ac&d·emic Opportunity Consortium (A;O.C.), has resigned . and will be leaving· Union College after four years here. He served for three years in the admissions office prior to his. administrative appointment. Moore s~s his experiences at Union as \worthWhile . and profitable\ and he thinks that he learned a great deal. Considering Union's future. he comments, \A1 all levels, black-white relations . are in danger.\ He believes that Union \Will have to sit down and figure out what wiU be done to open up · all ·channels of communication and come together.,. Describing the relations as \strained Moore .attributes the tenseness to the misconceptions that are permitted to exist among all groups here. He emphasizes the danger of this sittnttion, and predicts that the school will have to decide how it wants to deal with the problelll. \Relations in gene:ral are so bad that a crisis will be discovered soon. One is in the offing,\ h:e claims, ... whether it be in a week or a year or longer is. inelevant.\ Optimistically, though, he says, · \There is hope for Union.\ lie says that he has seen increasing evidence of insightful, critical evaluation by students this year. .. More students are taking charge of their lives,., h.e observes, .. and everyone is becoming · more aware.\ Moore praise!! recent evaluative efforts such as the town meeting, and Calvin Anderson's discussion-picnic. last Satjlrday, hoping they will help make a better environment. Moore also emphasizes the importance of financial assistance in implementing any change of attitudes. He eltplains that most colleges and universities have appropriated funds and hired needed personnel to .improve the quality of minority relations. He says that Union · has failed to make this kind of .commitment or establish long range plans of this sort. Reflecting on the past year., Moore describes the range of his responsibilities. He explains that much of his effort has gone into the A.O.C., which provides opportunities for access to college for students who otherwise wouldn't be admitted because of financial or academic reasons. He also devoted much time dealing with any issues that required his attention, el:lpecially as they related to min()rity affairs. In addition to these duties, Moore was active in a number of related Mr. John Vanlleck, a life trustee of Union, died Sunday (If a heart attack at his ;home in .Parsonage Point, · Rye, New York. His lil~ny services to the college included being an active supporter of all attempts to improve the athletic facilities and he controlled the Bailey Fund. Surviving are his widow, Barbara; two sons, John B. alld William P.; two daughters~ Mrs~ Naymond R. · Konopka and Mrs. James s. May, and 13 grandchildren. - Memorial services were held . yesterday at 11:00 a.m. in the · fJ.I_e PresbyttJtian <;b_preh; Leroy Moore, Assistant Dean of Students photo by Leslie Steineker programs and. committees, within both the school and the general community. A replacement for Moore has not been found yet, however he plans to help with the adjustment process, and provide so.me continuity for his. affairs. September I, however, he becomes Director of Minority Affairs at The College of William .and Mary in Virginia, where he hopes to increase minority enrollment. He will also be in charge of developing and coordinating programs and activities, and the implementation of a tutorial program. M oote sees the change as \an opportunity to meet the new and interesting challenges of a large, diverse institution.'' He expects to find ••an intriguing perspective that will provide a chall~nge.'' by JUDY DEIN Comrtuttee and College Center The recent elections made it Committee. clear that students do llot know The Conduct Committee where to go when they want supposedly exists to help rectify · something changed on· campus. situations wherein a student's Students who were upset with the rights have been abridged. lts way that the election was run pllrpose is to serve as a place talked about setting up guidelines whete students can complain and specifying procedures for about problems ranging from future elections. No. o11e seemed noisy neighbors to racist to know' however, which professors. This year, however, committee or group on campus only one or two cases have been would be.responsible for changing brought before the committee. the Election Committee's Either life on campus is really procedures. Eventually it was quite calm, R.A.'s are doing a determined ,that since the Election gr~at job, or everyone is keeping Committee is a student qutet. committee, .the proposal could be A list ·of the newly elected brought before the Steering members to each committee will Committee. The Steering appear· next week. Students are Committee is respoasible. for the urged to tnake their working.s of aU student recommendations known to the committees. Non-student committee members. committees are responsible to the The All-College Senate AII·CoUege Senate. The AU-College Senate is the Several committees eK.ist which, most powerful governing body if properly used, ~ould make it involving students on campus. It easy for students to propose consists of members of the changes and ma:ke their opinions administration, faculty and the known. However, it seems that students. The Senate rules on many of these committees have issues which influence all aspects fallen into disuse. Some meet of life at Union, not merely rarely, others not at aU. Many student activities. Issues which committees wo.uld' appreciate come before the Senate include suggest i on s. and the calendar change, the grading recommendations. H()wever. a change, and the dog dilemma. new year is starting so()n; an<i, Most faculty and administrative new members are presentLy being committees report to the College chosen for all committees. It is Senate. hoped that if students become Aead.emic Troubles? more aware that the committees A committee which does exist do exist, and begin to make use of them, much more could be (contrary to popular belief) is the . Committee on the Standing of accomplished. Students. This committee is a Steering Committee subcommittee of the Standards The Steering Committee is in Committee. \This subcommittee charge of all stud~nt activities, is responsible for reviewing the funds, and committees, and also rec()rds of those students approves club constitutions. The receiving less than a satisfactory committees under the Steering term average. It also deals at Committee's jurisdicti<>n are the length with student petitions for Committee on Committees and readmission, and for exception or the Conduct Committee (both modifications in graduation subcommittees of the Steering reqairemerits.\ Committee), the Elections In short, this is the place where Committee, Social Committee, students can go if they are put on Student Life Committee, Tax academic warning.. special Bike HeiSt Thwarted-, But ... By ·Geoff Taylor At approximately 3:45 p.m. on Tuesday. May 21st, an attempted bike theft was thwarted outside Steinmetz Hall. One of three persons who allegedly took part · in the attempt to steal Douglas Wong's ten speed bike was caught and brought to the Security ' Office. The attempted theft was performed in front of two witnesses standing in Steinmetz who reported ·that they saw two. people: one of whom was standing in front of the bike rack facing the Maintenance Building, thus blocking the view of anyone .. ;; ~'''\'·'\'~ passing by from the road while the other person used a pair of bolt cutters to cut a half-a-Hnk of Wong's bicycle lock. One of the Witnesses, Professor Howard C. Berthold Jr. was in the glass enclosed walk-way connecting Butterfield Hall with Steinmetz. The other witness whose name is held in confidence was standing in room 100 Steinmetz and reported the same story Berthold had .• Witness Calls When Berthold realized what was happening, he proceeded to the nearest telephone which was in the Computer Center. On his way to a .phone, he told Professor A species thr.eatened .with e¥tlnction. phpto by Cliff LangWeiler Theodore .Schwarz that a l>tcycte the tiine tnat one llnk of the theft was in progress. According bicycle chain was cut part way. to Schwarz, he rushed out the through, not did he realize one of emergency door in the Computer the persons was concealing a pair Center thinking that a .bike was of bolt cutters underneath his already stolen. Confronting the shirt. - two individuals, Schwaiz reported The Get-A WilY that they were supposedly waiting When Berthold inspected the for a friend. At this time they said cllain on the bike it had been cut. to Schwarz that theY would wait The two suspects went around in out on the road and started fr.ont of the Science and toward the Maintenaace Building, Engineering Complex and leaving the bike on tlie rack, and proceeded toward the Alumni turned left next to lhe Computer Gym. When the two suspects Center. Schwarz did not realize at Continued on Page 3 academic warning, or have simply flunked out. This is where students can appeal their cases. However, it must be stressed that the students on the committee are not responsible for determining which students should be put on academic warning, etc. All appeals. must he made through Dean Smith. \The student members of the Committee (on standing of students) may participate only in matters of general policy and are excluded, from the Committee's considerations . on individual cases,\ as the Committee on Committee's list of committee functions reads, Security Hassles? Security has been lacking this year. and the Women's Caucus is tryi11g to do something about it. After much running around the caucus ended up at the Environmental Resources and Campus Development Committee~ which is also involved in Security and Safety. A proposal to install more lights around campus was introduced to this committee by the Caucus. The proposal was approved and is now goi~ _to be considered by the Continued Of! page 7 TAP Bill by JOE MARAS The State Legislature recently passed an Omnibus Higher Education Bill of 1974, which was signed into law by Governor Wilson. it is referred to as the Tuition Assistance Program (TAP) and is directed toward establishing some sort of equalization of costs between the public and private colleges in the State. This is a significant first step in that direction. As stated in a memorandum from John I. Kirkpatrick, President, Commission on Independent Colleges and Universities, 'Public officials are often besieged with requests for help, but less often do they receive expressions of thanks.' I would like to suggest that you as a student at Union, from New York· State who is sharing in the benefits of the Regents Scholarship and Scholar Incentive Program, Education Opportunity Program or the Vocational Rehabilitation Program take the time to write a letter of appreciation to one or more of the following public officials who were the leaders in having this legislation enacted into law. Here is the roster: Governor Malcolm Wilson, Speaker Perry B. Duryea, Jr., Senator Warren M. Anderson (initial sponsor), Assemblyman Peter J. Costigan (initial sponsor), Senator Ronald B. Stafford (initial sponsor) and . Assemblywoman Constance Cook. Address: State Capitol, Albany, New York 12224. Sign·llp time is now-for next spring's Comp. Ed. Term Abroad program in Schwabisch Hall, Germany, and Bogota, Colombia. See Professor Warde in HUZll for details. A meeting for all tltose thinking of spending winter term in Israel will be held on Monday, ~une 3rd at 4:30 in ss_u:z.

Pa~e 2 CONCORDIENS[S, Thursday, May 30, 1974 i $fA. C!toumr~bmolts - ~~- Editon•in-chief ....................... Judy Dein. Bill Talis News 'Editor ...................................... Geotrraylor Culture Editor ................................. ~ .... Pete Sobol S.,Orts· Editor ......... ~ ............................. Bart ~e~r Photo EditMS .............. ~ ... ~ .......... ;-Leslie Ste1neker, Cliff LanJZWeiler Copv Editor ....... ~ .............................. .-.Phil Alca·bes ForeiflJl Corespondent ... ; ... ~ .. :., ... Rob ~ondschein ·Biitherintr Editor ........ : ................. ~Chris O'Connor · 8usiness Editor .......................... ~ ...... Aian Gnessin National AdvertisinJI ............ ~········ .. ···Steve. Kelley Subscriptions EditoP ........................... , ·~Lisa· T'- CGIIc. lr 1h · is published eyery Thursday by the st11dent body of Union Collepe. Old Gym Hall. Sc:helieclady. N.Y.; Publications Ofra. TJie Jewish World Publications. 171 State St .• Scliencctady. N.Y. 12.1Cll (346-2356). Ente~ in the ,Sc:hettectady Post O«JCC 111 · Second Clan Mauer. Suliscription Rate 3S cents per copy, S&.IJO a vear ddiWrectanvwheft in.the Unikd States. Deadline for copy ,js . i:uesciAy. 5:11tH. 'M. . You Said It! Disorientation · Editors, Conco:rdiensis: I direct tfl.is letter to the en tire Orientation Committee irt the hope tha,t in tile future,. those who have the .power to appoint counselors ~m do so with some degree of objectivity. It seems that the c.ommittee is more concerned a,bout pers<>naiity clashes than quality coun::selors. About a week ago, the committee ga t!Iered to vote on stroke of pure imagiaatioq, so admirably clever, which speaks to every heart. Who dares to say that the creative arts are dead at Unio,n? So long as our community can inspire such style and wit and ·verw, should we despair! Consider the long and careful thought, the strenuous dedication, the unremitting effort of these un-sung artists, and let us rejoice 1n the growing humane mind that provides us with such gifts. * * Proudly yours, Alan Nelson * * Editors, ·Concordiensis: his audience .. I would be anxious for \Glu\ to make himself known, as I would heartily recommend to him (or her) Prof. Ullmann's course next fall in Criticism. If he (or she) is a senior, it is a .. course, as demonstrated by the review, that· would he worth his (or her) while to stay back for. Daniel J. Valenti * * * * Yom Kippur Editors, Concordiensis: The All-College Senate recently adjusted the fall schedule by cancelling classes on t-he second · day of the academic year for Yom Tau ,Beta 'Pi· Awards · who they Noll!ld like most as counselors, n.o~ on who should be counselors. 1\Uof the members of the committe-e 'IVith whom I spoke told me of the-ir disgust of the system; this inc:luqes one of the co-chairmen. Yet they all went along their mvil. merry w,ay for two days witli rto one attempting to change tfue way things were being handled,, or should \I say, mishandled. It is difficult to explain exactly what did occur during the selection meetings since I h1!.ve heard several different stories, all from \reliable\ solir(es. lf all of these stories are :true~ I can~t see how the committee could have c<>me out with any k:.ind of valid list among all that chaos. We would like to take this opportunity to publiCly thank the more than one hundred students who di<f such a fine job on the Student Phonathon May 20·23. Not only was the money raised significa,nt, but more importantly the time and sincere effort was deeply appreciated by the alumni body as well as the External Affairs Depar:tment. Our offices have received many expressions of thanks and praise from alumni for the work done by the student caners. Kippur. Why then doesn't the All- C0llege Senate proclaim the cancellation of classes on Good Friday, Ash, Wednesday, Vetera11's Day, Halloween, or evert Groundhog Day?! These proposed cancellations could very easily be made up by ending our 4 week Christmas term break several days earlier. Phi Beta Kappa represents \the highest national recognition for scholarly excellence at. the u~dergraduate level.\ However, contrary to popular behef, Phi Beta Ka.ppa is not the highest academic l10nor for st~dents of aH disciplines. Nearly one hundred years ago_, Ph1 Bet~ Ka.~pa decided to Bmit its membership,. so to th1s day engmeenng students are ineligible for membership in that organizaUon. Since 1 o85, that gulf has been filled by ~a1;1 Beta P~. . The objectives Qf Tau Beta Pi, as stated m Its Const1tut1on, are: \To mark in a fitting manner those who have conferred honor upon their alma mater, by distinguished scholarship and exemplary character as undergraduates, ... and to f&ster a spirit of liberal culture in engineering c~llege:;;.\ . On May 23, the following students were mducted mtoTau Beta Pi: Cheuk-Sun Kam Edward Lynch Georg~ Rest • Charles Davidson (Eve. Div.) Charles Fuller (Eve. Div.) _David Smail (Eve. Div.) Youth Orchestra Finale .. -· ... Something_. exciting has happened to student-performed music at Union College: the ' Northeast New York Youth Orchestra. All of the credit must go to only one person. He is Emory W. Waters, Professor of Music at Union, and Director of NENYYO. When Professor Waters arrived in Schenectady this past fall as the Arts Department's new, young face, he had inherited absolutely nothing in the way of an orchestra except a few dedicated musicians. He has performed a virtually impossible task by transforming this core into a true orchestra in something less than nine months. The final Union Co11ege concert of the North East New York Youth Orchestra for this year took place in Memorial Chapel this last Tuesday night. The program consisted of music from \Young Goodman Brown\ by Henry Mollicone, the Piano Concerto No. I in C major, Op. 15 of ' Beethoven, and the ' . Symphony No. I in B-flat major, Op. 38 (Spring), of Robert Schumann. The orchestra played Under a new conductor this year, and it- was clear from their playing that there was mutual cooperation and respect. It was one of tve orchestra's better concerts. The program opened with the Mollicone, which is two excerpts from an opera based on the Hawthorne story. It opened with the hymn to Satan, from the black sabbath scene, and concluded with the love music. On the whole, the performance was quite good. The score is incredibly dense~ and thus just to be able to play through it is an achievement of sorts. If there is any complaint, it is the attitude of the musicians. The tend to see a modern score and immediately believe that it is difficult and is to be played as thdugll it is difficult. For that matter, Mozart is one of the most difficult composers to perform, but no one plays his music that way. At any rate, Mr, Mollicone, who was in the audience, seemed to be pleased. The Beethoven featured soloist Clara Zayas and she plays magnificently. Her interpretation was extremely good, particn.larly the slow movement. The orchestra accompaniment was good, but a bit ragged. They did not phrase as the soloist did, a seemingly minor· bat nevertheless important part of accompaniment. More care should be given this in f11ture concerts. The Schumann went surprisingly well. Schumann was not really an orchestra composer, and his scores tend to be overly dense and rather disappoin.ting musically, the first symphony less than the other three. The only movement which gave any real trouble was the finale, which is excessively demanding on the violins. The brass tended to overpower the strings in a few places, in particular and first and last movements. The symph()ny had one of the largest sounds the orchestra has ever made, putty due to the orchestration. Friday night, the duo piano team of Gamby and Waites will play in the Arts Building Room 202, in a program featuring music of Mozart and Brahms. Sunday at 4:00 in Memorial Chapel, the W omens' Glee Club, directed by Pat Deckert, will sing their final concert of the year, and on Monday at 4:30 in \Jacks<>n's Garden, the Union C<>llege Stting Quartet will play a short recital. Be watching for the Senior Recitals, all of which take place in the next two weeks. I was also told by one of the members .tltat absolutely no criteria was used in the selection process. For rettuning counselors, freshmen evaluations were never considered. Ami ratings of the interviews woere also generaJiy neglected. But w-hat relevence do they have? I ~Was told at one point t·hat the fact t!Iat. someone- has been a\ very- ~ood· odentation· We hope that the. experience was as rewarding for aH the participants as it was for us. Thank you all very much. Gordon Decker, '70 Director, Annual. Fund Bill Kuchta, '72 Alumni Office counselor for 1he past two years is I!Jditors~ Concordiensis: no indication · 1~at he will l>e a The end of the academic and good one next _year. It is true that . publishing year is ~raw~ng t~ a some people cbange over the close! and the Ed1tors-m~Ch1e~s years, but the cCJmmittee seems to are _about to .cons~mate their have carried tbis idea to extremes. public careers With this paper Those members who are The editors, it is sad to say, dissatisfied with the process, yet after all this time, after 15 odd did not speak: <Jut against it; are issues of the Concordy, still do just as much a part ofthe system not know t~e name of one who as those who flelieve in what they has done h1s utmost to keep the did. So if yoa~ feel as I do that c'oncordy on an even ~eel, o?e what went on Wa5 not right, come who has done much to msure Its out and say ·so. Being on the financial success. The person who committee, · y~u have the has been so slight~d by tho~e he opportunity to make things has supported so VIgorously IS the happen. Those who have power National Adv~rtising ~anager, will continue to do as they please who has had his name mis-spelled as long as they know that nothing issue after issue, week after week, will be done t-o s:top them. even after his local counterpart, To the incoming freshmen Alan Gnessin, has constantly class good luck! brought this error to the attention ' Fred Weil, '75 of the editors. It is high time they * ~ * * finaHy got it right; its Steve Kelly, Alberg All Heart To the Editor: I would Iik~ to retract any statements I h~ve made around campus regarodin._g the ethics behind meoollers of the Committee on Committees a.pplying to themselves for committee apJl<iintments. Tbe actions of these members have been explained tome and I real~e I 'was incorrect iii· my statements about their lack: CJf ethics. I would also lilce to apologize to those people I maligned. .Jim Alberg '74 * * II: * K-E-L-L-Y, not K-E-L-'L-E-Y. This being the second to last issue of the Concordiensis for the vear, all that can be hoped for is that this error is atoned for in this, and the final issue. Thank you, Steve Kelley Blue on Glu To the Editor: I cannot blame \Glu•• for not signing his (her) real name to the review in last Thursday's Concordy of the Bernhardt Coffeehouse. It is a cliche-ridden, mundane article that is more of a report than a review. I see nothing wrong with celebrating Yom Kippur, h.ut to the same ex·tent as celebrating any other holiday (religious or otherwise). By declaring no classes on one holiday, we have initiated a responsibility to distinguish b.etween' the importance of I · holiday over another, and must therefore rank the hierarchy. Union College, by setting a precedent of declaring one holiday, should likewise be willing to declare other holidays at the whim of the student body, thus .punching holes in the academic calendar. Thus, where do we draw the line bet~een those holidays we don't have classes on, and those on which we do. What is fair and reasonable, and what is not? By cancelling one day of classes on a Thursday, it is still impossible for a student liying a considerable distance away from home to celebrate the holiday with his family. They are. thus forced to stay here. With the academic year already underway and one day of classes completed, the student is in the process of preparing for the term ahead, with responsibilities and possible assignments to accomplish. How much of the holiday will we miss if we only attend classes that day and leave the work for the weekend? Even skip classes on Yom Kippur if you want; come on, this is college! Isn't it? But what about the rest of the students who must sacrifice a day of class (and a day of our already brief Thanksgiving recess) to annihilate the first half week of classes. After all, with classes on Wednesday, Thursday off, classes on Friday, and the weekend off, the first week amounts to very little. ln this respect,:l doubtthat much will be accomplished· during the revised first week. Friday also looks very tempting as a day to \miss\ classes to create a nice long weekend. ••• Message from Heaven? To the Editor, ICCJncordiensis: As I walk the paths of the campus, and my gaze lifts to the western hills, l am struck with admiration for the four-letter, one-word display on the West College Cupola. In conception, -what wit! In execution, what f11Lir! In content what Truth! How proud we all must be of the r:n~ture mind that so boldly displays itself to out admiring glance! Surely our spirits must be lifted when we contemiJ.late this incisive Whoever \Glu\ is, he (or she) does not understand the critic's function, which is to observe, to analyze, and then to give his informed opinion. A critic by nature should only review presentations which, through his expertise, will make his opinions valid ones, more valid say than It seems more feasible, since we already have vacation during two predominant Christian celebrations - Christmas recess, and Easter (which falls on a Sunday anyway) - that we alter the fall schedule )n such a way 'that the term begins on the Monday following Yom Kippur, and .pick up the 3 sacrificed days (Wednesday through Friday) during or at the end of the school Year. And I'm sure that other, more feasible recess schedules could be used. Since Yom Kippur ·is a very important celebration, I see no reason why this can't be considered and possibly accomplished in the near future. Let's be able to celebrate Yom Kippur; but not at the expense of disrupting the school calendar by dividi11g the first week in the < '01'ltinued on Page 5 - ( rea en Alum were perso yello' same was ' inters waith patro towal was l who Road lJ-tur On Fimi1 towaJ of t suspe towa1 bike. happ< who was suspe was l him. \Just and grab I the b hurt bicyc direc Fiz witne as th cutte wish build othe1 at ten was arriv' notr 1 he appn ··that secur Chac dowr his s John he ~ coul< ~0 s sus 1 misu want looki Cha< that susp1 came buik WI arrivt appn suspe Klein Klein phon His 4 the year lar~ blue with hat. descr provi suspe Kl4 and relea: did r a wi1 for h over Dep~ hand orde1 info1 indiv Ch didn' the s that Secu ident I

\G:lu\ to I would him (or next· it is a by the his for. Valenti by second the All- the Good esday, en, ·or These very our 4 break with b.ut to any or no have to the over rank by ring be plidays body, the where those What is still a oliday thus the erway of y will for on come the a day ready to of on off, very to nice ian a alter way the days day) hool I t be of r by the CONCORDIENSIS, Thursday, May 30, 1974 Page 3 Cycle Swipers Strike Cal's Picnic It's difficult to know how one t:an relate, communicate, and reach out after the decision to do so has been made. How can I suddenly start saying hello to the faces without names walking by me in the hall or sitting in a class where only the professor does the talking? How can a stranger meet me when I'm totallY involved in my circle of friend.s - protected and isolated from any outside and fresh influences? The first step has been· made in recognizing .the problem- where do I go from there? rossibilities for student-faculty relationships. The teacher listener system seemed to be un- satisfactory but prevalent. It Was felt that greater involvement by teachers in extra-curricular activities and events would help communication in the classroom. \Students should be encouraged to interrupt if they can teach. The Continued from Page I reacnea tne staewalk between the Alumni Gym and Bailey Hall they were reportedly joined by a third person who was attending three vellow, ten speed bicycles, At this ~arne time Professor Schwarz was on Alexander Road at the intersection of North Lane waiting for Security. Security patrolman Stan Fiminski, coming toward Schwarz in a patrol car, was alerted to the three suspects who had emerged on Alexander Road. Fim·inski quickly made a U-turn .in pursuit of the suspects. One suspect reportedly got past Fiminski and headed on his bike toward Schwarz in the direction of the field house. Another ·suspect turned right and headed toward Union Avenue on his hike. The third suspect, who happened to be the same person who allegedly cut t·he bike chain, was caught by Fiminski. The suspect headed toward Schwarz was aiming his bicycle directly at him. Professor Schwarz reported, \Just as he got to me, he swerved and as he went around me, J grabbed him and knocked him off the bike.\ The individual was not hurt and quickly got back on his bicycle and pedaled off, in the direction of the field house. Fiminski was approached by a · witness who identified the suspect as the one who had used the bolt cutters but this witness did n:ot wish to come down to the securit·y building with the patrolman. The other known witness to the actual attempted cutting of the chain was Professor Berthold who had arrived late on the scene and did not realize at that time that one of the three suspects was appr~hended. Berthold reporte,d .. that he· thought at first that security patrohri.an Christopher Chadwick wanted him to come dowri to the· security office to give his story to Director of Security, John H. Kleinkalif. Thinkingthis, he asked if Chadwick if they could drive toward the field house ,to see if they could spot the suspects. Chadwick· misunderstood what Berthold wanted and thought they were looking for bolt cutters. When Chadwick mentioned to Berthold that security had caught one suspect, they turned around and came back to the security building. Suspect Description When Chadwick and Berthold arrived at the security building at approximately 4: 15 p.m. the suspect was being questioned by Kleinkauf. According to Mr. Kleinkauf, the suspect provided a phoney name: Robert James Jr. His description matched that of the witnes·ses: black, 17-18 years old, stocky, 5' 8\ large horn rim glasses, wearing blue jeans, a red football shirt with white numerals \33\, and a hat. In addition to this description, one of the witnesses provided an added fact that the suspeds hair was in braids. Kleinkauf at the time Chadwick and Berthold were coming in, released the suspect because he did not realue that Berthold was a witness. \I really had ho basis for holding him and turning him over to the Schenectady Police Department. We would need first hand testimony to .the facts in order to go down and lay out the information and have the individual charged.\ Suspect Let Go Chadwick was asKed why he didn't stop Kleinkauf from letting the suspect go and make mention that there was a witness in the Security Building wattmg to identify the suspect he responded, Cy~le swipers saw steel to steal -cycles. photo by Leslie Steineker .. , assumed John had his name and address and could get a hold of him when he needed to.\ Berthold at the time of the suspects release came face to face with him and according to Berthold the suspect made two remarks: \One of th.em was something like, 'Quit holding me, I'm not going anywhere.\' The second remark was directed at Berthold: \ 'He saw me standing there but he didn't see me doing Survey Results: .tnything.' \ Berthold continued, \I didn't say any thing, I went in and sat down. The Director of Security asked me what ') had seen and I reported that which I had seen. After that I thought they were going to bring in the person they had caught. At any rate. it was appaFent that the person was no longer there. He was gone.\ According to Berthold, the security people on duty searched for the suspect but did not find him. Since this time Kleinkauf has tentatively identified the suspect's real :name. Whether the witnesses will or are able to identify the suspect is in doubt at this time. One witness who will not come forth is no longer absolutely sure he can identify ·the suspect who was caught. Berthold, asked whether he was certain the suspect was the one with the bolt cutters responded, \I'm sure, I'd have to say 90% ... I'm going to say 90% sure that that was the person with the bolt cutters, mainly because of what he was wearing... \ Professor Schwarz is quite certain he can identify the suspect that was released later and he said he can identify the person who tried to run him down on the hike. Other students and faculty were witnesses to the apprehending of the suspect on Alexander Lane. A number of people at Union are interested in understanding and improving the situation here, judging from the turnout at the Town Meeting. Some of them continued their investigations Saturday at a picnic organized by Carl Anderson. Administration and faculty were represented among the students, their statements were personal, not interpretations of policy. Many people, as .they added .to the con verl)a tio n expressed concern over a 'lack of community' whose most obvious symptom is the great number of strangers one sees on campus. \Behind barriers of coolness we .ignore one another,'~ they said, ''We're bound by ideas of who we are and who we will know. The uneven racial/ religious/ whatever balance leads to alienation, a scuffle for security in tiny groups. Laws of academic survival change co-operation to competition.\ There was also a great deal of discussion on the existing . More Rip-Off . . ~ave you h~.~n ripp.ed off at tbose surveyed said they have n.ot finally senior coeds of whom 76 lJnwn? Accotdmg to tile latest heen robbed.. per cent were never robbed. The results of the , . Co~cordie~sis The, results. vary over class year freshman males on campus were student survey. apprpxtmately 70 and sex. Only two out of every the only group that had a lower per cent of studen!s h~re w~re not ten freshmen were robbt;d of any robbery than a coed group. 69 per robbed at any pomt m thetr stay. personal property. Whil The cent of freshman males were not at College. results vary over class year and robbed, exceeding the stats of the Does it matter where one lives? s~x. Only two out of every ten senior cojds. Other males by class The most likely to be robbed is a freshmen were robbed of responded as follows: fraternity member living in a an)' .personal property. This Per cent Not Robbed fraternity; only 54.8 per cent of figure rises as one precedes up the Sophomores: 64.2 S t · · years: 28.3 per cent of ·the Juniors: 61.5 0 : r a g, ·e sophomores in the survey were Seniors: 52.8 · . robbed; 32.2 per cent of the The independent who dwells in juniors were robbed; 41.2 per cent a fraternity is the next most likely In past years students have expressed an increasing neep of the seniors were robbed. person to be robbed: 64.3 per cent The sex of an individual is of this group said they never were for on campus summer storage related to the probability that he robbed. The bulk of tve students facilities. As a result. the or she will be (in the terms of (this includes both male and College Center Committe\! has been granted the responsibility Webster's Handy College female) live as independents in Dictionary) \stripped of dormitories. Seventy-three per of establishing two large something by force.\ Coeds' cent of these students say they rooms in Carnegie for this purpose. One room in the personal property is apparently have never been robbed. Eighty basement and one room on the safer than that of males. While per cent of the independents third floor will be open on o4.9 per cent of the males stated surveyed who live off campus say Monday and Tuesday, June 10 they had not been robbed, 84.5 they have never been robbed. The and II from 1 :OO to 4:00 to ver cent of the women in the most secure group of students are receive books, furniture, survey say they were never those fraternity brothers who live luggage, etc. Several students robbed. in dormitories; 83.3 per cent of will be in charge to ensure that Examining sex and class more this group were not robbed. all incoming items are properly closely gives one a better rl labelled. In September (time understanding of who is being ' . · and date to be announced), robbed. The women .are more ~,. students must present proficient in every category but ~. one in their attempt to escape the I·\~ · 1 • p r of e s s o r c a n p r om ot e tremendous learning by encouraging students to educate one another.\ The theme of the picnic was inter-relation and communication the idea is to 'spread ·information by word of mouth, personally. Notice of activi~ies and events should come from people, not through an inanimate and unresponsive medium like this newspaper. Maybe you've heard about the folash Thursuay night. Some of the people at the picnic were interested in organizing moFe events of that type. They endorsed a regular schedule of Town Meetings - well attended by people you might want to talk to. Student/ Faculty discussions are he ginning - more evidence of the existent will to make contact. \But it starts with you,\ they claim,\making an effort to transmit and to be receptive; to say hi artd transform the strangers; to forget the walls and open yourselves to experience; to forget that you're only one table and become part of the whole Skellar.\ \People discover one another on a superficial level but they look deeper and grow.\ -- The College Senate has asked the Athletic Committee to prepa·re a report with a view .. towards ideh tifying the advantages and disadvantages that result from the College's participation in the New England Small College A.thleti~ Conference .(NESCAC). Because· the Committee believes that NESCAC membership has implicatio~s that. cut across intercollegiate athletics and. touch upon admissions,, student life, alumni affairs, : and development, to name a • few, we are attempting to reflect a wide range of viewpoints in our report. The Committee will welcome written comments t from students, faculty, and P staff on these matters. On a balance, is it desirable for the College to continue its membership in NESCAC? For that matter, what role should athletics, both intercollegiate and intramural, play at Union? Please send your comments to Professor Kershner, Chairman, Athletic · Committee, in care of the Economics Department. \\' t identification before they will be permitted' to claim their sticky grasp of the thief. A huge r.:=~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~;\ possessions. Students taking 90.6 per cent of sophomore coeds advantage of this opportunity stated they had never beenkro must recognize that the college hbed. The junior coeds came hears no responsibility in the next, having 86.4 per cent of their event of damage or theft of number free of robbery, freshman items le;_ft in Carnegie; \f5~·~fe~m~a~l~es§h~a:=!d§8~3§.§3§p~e§r§ci!en:=!t~;§an§dfm however, the. building will be ~ closed and t'lfe doors to these rooms kept locked. If there are any questions, please call: Bruce McLaughlin, Liz Pava, or Leroy Moore. Tom Rush, instead of Martin MulL will appear in Memorial Chapel this Friday night at 10 p.m. Admission is $2. =~~~~~:::;::~:::::::::~::~:=:~::::::::~:;:~~;~:~:;:::::::::::;s~::::::;::::~:~;:::~::::::;:::::~::::::::::::;:::*:::::::::::::::::::::::::::~::~=:~::::::::::::::::::::::::::>.::::::~:::::::::~::::~::::::::::::~:::~f:~::::::~:;~;: 1~~: Maurice B. Graubart & Sons ~ ~~~* . nu S;. J.·,.Ad I I . B ~ . 'For three Generations' • 166 Jay St. \' For Hunt::.l Scr\ 1ce ~~ . And(iood Jewelry HERSJIEL ltA\IRI~E B W,\l.TER ~ ::::S:~~~=~:=m:::t...~-=:l:~~::::~~*~===::=-~::~:::::=::::$~**;~::;-::::~::::3::~:::~.:X:::::~:::::<::::::~:~:::::~:=:~:::=.::::::::~~====~~===~=:::::=:~::::~:~::~~==~::::~~Si~*=::;:x: The Booter 147 JAY ST. 147 JAY ST. HAND SEWN STEERHIDE MOCCASINS MEN'S $31.95- $30.95c~~~~N WOMEN's $27.95 - $26.95cc~~?;~N

Page 4 CONCORDIENSIS, Thur!iday, May 30, 1974 ' . - . . - . . . . The Names on the South Windowsill footb~H team and .a member of only need tra-vel from upper · F. E. Holleran by LAUREN GORDON Though gray walls pale and ,leaders fail, 0 Though gray walls pale and leaders fail, Our hearts with hope are bounding And amid ringing cheer the tale of the years, Its century is rounding $1-10,000 Sheets of Toilet Paper - In~ure Yourself and Famiiy for One Year against Impure Air from Clogged Drains and Comrequential Ill Health, Nuisance, and Plumbing Bills. One day, go up to the fourth floor lounge in South College and look out the Northern most window. What will he seen is the inscription of the names Allen and Holleran, '95. We have their That the thrill of the past, through ali time may last in· the onward sweep knowledge, names cast in stone. Here, simply, is their story. of William Allen and Francis in the search for truth and the love for youth, is our prayer for Union College: Edward Holleran, born in 1870 and 1871, in Tyrne and Waterloo, New York, respectively, were sons of Irish immigrants. They roomed together in South College. for three years, and were termed \inseparable\ by their classmates. DEDICATED TO THE CLASS OF 1895 fhe class of 1895 was Union'c centennial class, was the larges't class since the Civil War, and included among its 50 graduates two Jews and two Catholics - Allen and Holleran (keep these names in mind). It's motto was Discipuli· Semper, its colors garnet and -white. Webster was President of the College until 1894 when Andrew Richmond took over. As in our day, school started in late September and ended in late June. School was cloSed in those days for Washington's Birthday, for Good . Friday, Decoration Day, and Election Day, in addition to Thanksgiving, and winter, and spring recesses. From the Garnet, '95, we have the following enticements: THE IMMORTAL IDOL, THE FRATERNITY MAN'S FAVORITE SCULPTURE, NOW AVAILABLE ON THE HANDLE OF STERLING SPOONS. CONTACT RICHMOND AND SONS, GRAND CIRCUS PARK, DETROIT, MICHIGAN, PRICES $1.50 to $5.00 per spoon. ORDER NOW! or: Indeed, they had many common interests. They were both in Theta Nu Episilon, the sophomore honor society, and Allen was President and Holleran Vice President of their sophomore class. Their greatest common love was of athletics, most of all, track. Allen's favorite event was the 880 yd. run. Holleran was co- captain of the track team for two years and in the annals is found the testimonial \Each did his best to uphold the honor of old Union, and in Captains Brown, Holleran, and Howard, they found men who led them modestly yet firmly to victory\ Holleran's specialty was the short distance - 20, 120, and 220-yd hurdles, 100-yd. dash, and half- mile relay. In fact, in 1894, he set a Union record of 27.6 seconds in the 220-yd. hurdles that stood for some time. Other track and field events in 1895 were the one-mile walk and the two~mile bicycle race. The record height for pole vaulting was 9' 2.\ Allen was also on the Boxing team, played class football, and was Manager of the College Nine in his senior year. Holleran was Captain of the class · \Groovin in the Valley\ THE FIRST OF THE SHOCK ROCK! This time ••• ...,._ ....., .... --= of the Dolls A Russ Meyer Production This is not a sequel- there has never been anything like it Union will get its first real taste of porno this week as Russ Meyer's soft-cote spectacle, Beyond the Valley of the Dolls, comes to the screen. It is the story of the rise and fall of a magnificently endowed all-girl rock 'n roll group in Hollywood. The girls meet all phases of perversions: pot, pill-popping, bed-hopping, . homosexuality, attempted suicide, abortions, sadists, nymphomaniacs,. lesbians, a ·d · · \' n more.~ The raucous fun will begin at 7, 9, and II,. Sat. and Sunday in SS 016: only fifty cents for this soft core classic. JAKE UPSTENS· IJQUORS the Bicycle. CI.ub. . Manhattan, but it was in late about the country boy born in a In more senous pur~Uits, Allen Pecember and he was suffering l~g cabin who made it in the big hel~nged to the Phiiomath~an from .pernicious anemia. city. Society . and the . Shakesp~are After leaving Union, William Also during these years, Allen ~.lub; Ho.lleran wa~ md~cted mto AUen wen.t to Rochester to .study was a lecturer at Columbia S1g~a X1, the engmeenng honor law, and was admitted to the Ba:r University on \Practical Politics,\ society. Oddly_ eno.u~h, pe~haps in , 898 : In later years· he would and he delivered a bracton lecture because of t~eir rehgwn, neigher be awarded honol!lrY degrees on the same topic. He was was a fra-termty brother. In 1932, from Union _ an M.A. in 1925 President of the Union Co'llege ~lien ~ould . be . honorarily .and Ll.D. in 1939 . After Alumni Association 1922-l'n6, I~ducted mto Pst yps!lon, wheFe Rochester, Allen becam~ an aide and was awarded an Alumni his son~, Thomas, 30, and James to a Senator from Missouri. Medal in 1942 for meritorious Dean, 31,: h~d b~~n n:embets. F·oHowing th!lt, he arri\recl in New service both to the College and to . U_nder Gnnds, which w~s the york Clty and began to engage in his community. He married se<;tiOn. of e~ch Garnet dedicated lac a 1 po:litics. . He beeam.e Maude Coston in 1902; she died to the _lllustnou:s members of each democratic leader of his Asse.arbly in 1919. Two of Allen's nephews class, 1t was said about Holleran, District and Chairman of the ~tnd a grandson as weU as his sons \I am he who aches with love\ Executive Committe~ of attended . Union: Philip f22), (freshman year). Tammany Hall. In 1' 924 Governor Joseph ('27), and Thomas ('64). _What became of our ~wo young AI Smith appointed him Judge of Allen died in 1967 at the age of fne_nds after gr~;tduatmg from t:he Court of (lenera-1 Sessions to 96; as one who was a:lways Umon? Holleran's ~ale is ~uicker fill out a term. He would then go attached to Union, he left a to . tell. -:'-fter. lea~mg .unwn, he on to be elected to nvo more scholarship in his name. held engmeermg JObs m Buffal0, terms before. his retirment in The names carved in stone ate Newport, ~nd Washin~ton, D.C., 1941, earning respect and . a self-made memorial to two and. was •.n the u.mted _States distinction along the way. At grad:uates of Union, '9§, who Engmeer Corps stationed 10 the every testimonial or awa.rd might seem a little more real to us Panama <:=ana_! Zone in 1923-25 dinner, when talking about Allen now. and agam m 1928-32. The something was always mentianed K,.i~p·:~~~ckt.~e ·~Immortal ·charles government adopted a torpedo mechanism he had invented. He had shown signs of genius in earlier years when, upon application to Union, he showed the-President Webster a draft of a railroad steam engine he had made. Holleran retired in 19 39 to Jamaica, Queens. He had married Mary Todd in 1897 and their son Francis, J.r., was a pitch~r at Union (Class of '20) and died in 1939. Holleran himself died in 1944 at the age of 73, from third-' degree burns. Within two days of his death, ·his old friend Allen wrote a le-tter to the College expressing his sentiments on Holleran's death and regretting ·that he would be unable to attend the funeral. Although he would William Allen .· Hemingway on Le Pitz t, ~,.~,'.1 was walking across campus . the other afternoo~ when some last .week tm1ssmg rny . tavorite joke~ were. excellent ad-libs by unkno~n per~onahty addressed bullfight to boot) and I . would President Martin dealing with me . tmpatlently: 44 Hey have to S&Y,\ It was good.\ early American toughness-and the Herrimgway. What happened to After receiving warnings from college itself: Room 101 and the old Carnegie my f71Iow travelers at my table., I After taking a recuperative Hall?\ 'Yell, naturally I di~n't reframed from too much wine or week on a safari trip (this time I know qmte what to say so I JUst beer, and ke.pt totally away from drank too much of the fine wine), shrugged .and dept on walking. the peanuts .and chee.se (though I plant to return toLe Pitz again The fact IS that the old Carnegie watched enviOusly wh.lle the rest this Thursday, May 30 for one of Hall became the new Student of my party helped themselves), the two· shows or maybe both. Center and Room IO I became the and ar~und ten the show opened The first show will feature center of student activity on to the f11led Le Pitz room. Charlie dramatic skits from a local Thursday. nights, that world Chap_lin, in a silent short, spring theatre group (from Jay St.) and famous mghtclub, Le Pitz. to hfe on the screen while it will start at 10 though the doors Mythoughtswentrightbackto Howard Grossberg,playinga to Le Pitz open at 9:00. A the. opening ni~ht celebration real ho~ky-tonk pi an o surprize act will go up during this which I had enjoyed so much a<:compamment brought the Le show and not even I could detect about two weeks ago. The night Pttz crowd back to the origin~f what it could be. In fact, I'm told h_ad opened w_ith the large crowd period of ~he flic .. 1t wa~ great, tha~ there will be a surprise act simply . lookmg around the comple~e With a nmsy proJector. I d urmg both snows, the 10:00 ahd dr~amhke room. Its billowing went nght back to the twenties 12:00 shows; fhe second show at c_elling w.hich. contained colored and my days in Paris ... oh, well! midnight wili present· a Woody hg.hts whtch lighted the stage; the back l? the story: Allen skit directed by the stage ratsed pla~forms on. which President Martm then took the manager of Le Pitz, Joe Millett. sha.dowy figures leaned and stage for what proved to be an and as always beer and wine, wh~spered! the. huge grotesques hour .. and a half of comedy; cheese and peanuts will be served wh1~h lo~ked m. from ~he walls, provided by . a great man . who c~ntinuously throughout the stanng Ill thetr oWn hushed forgot he was a College president ntght. silence. . and received by a crowd that So, again from here high on ~dream? Dubious. Le Pitz, the forgot t~ey were college students. Kilimanjaro this is Papa Um?n Cabaret? A good bet. ~he The humor was form~lly provjded Hemingway giving my greatest mustcal e.Qtertamment of operimg by the great tiumonsts of early compliment to the cabaret Le night had consisted of piano by America (a favorite group qf the Pitz: \lt was good.\ ' Rosie Maur? and guitar w~rk by Presid7nt's and of the library's E. Hemingway Steve Hopkms; all the While we collectlon), though most of the talked and gobbled peanuts and cheese, washed with beer. After an interlude from the low-key music which set the evening, the cast from the musical Hair entered quickly · and arranged themselves around the stage while their accompa.nist, Howwrd Grossberg of Glee Club a,cclaim moved to the piano. The group sang a few numbers from the show which will open May 3 I for nine shows till the 8th of June in the Mountebanks Theatre. Now, at about eleven; the second show began and was dominated by a sing-along with Howard at the keyboard; as I had eaten all together . too many peanuts early in the evening I was forced to flee the room though I promised to return the next week. And indeed I did make it back fitlc!Ji Jllinl Vtrmdnl ex/)eff instructiiiN iA the 1 1 ..tten1~ hil/1 uT Ver/1/ont • DORM STYLE LODGDG ADD ALL MEALS JULY 7-27 --t4SO•-LIMI'l'BD DROLLMD'l' .. CH.ATEAl;J ECOLE, PITTSFOBD, ft. 0S763 I I I I ho ba A! ps: ('< the hi1 pe u. n m1 ye .rec na ea fn th so al ad de we . \I gli tn ht th th th ne P< dt I U.~ will cor Sat Col [ ·api teri Do the end aca 1 Ch: 197 co.r: can Un she zo, Pal } W2 Mi do Un bi<i spa Oa the her Un I ap] de! de! COE Co WO AI! est fot I ! ~ L

na big len bia ,, 26, to WS 2), 4). of a us CONCORJ)JENSIS, Thursday, May 30, 1974 Page 5 Hair Comes To Union by Larry Levitz \Hello there! Ever thought of how you're Hving right smack bang in the middie of the Stone Age. Well this, folks, . is the. psychede)jc Stone Age.\ . Thus, . ~once again Union College Mountebanks. dives into the deep dark eras of huma;n history ta revive that long gone period of \Harmony and Understanding, Sympathy and Trust Abounding,'' in the :rock H!!it.raising rehearsal. _ musical Hair. i)le play, j:oyous yet tragk, funny, yet deep; recreates. ;the' feelings of our nation's youth during the late 60s, eager t~;> inaugurate a new age of freedom and honesty a;part from the. rigid demands of estabiished society. Yet they are uncertain as · all new discoverers an.d adventurers as to their futurce destinations away from society's worn currents and set routes ~ photo by Cindy Wolfson . \Down to the gutter, Up to the glitter, lnta the city where the truth lie.s, Where do I go?'\ Basic human needs and fears retain their centraL importance despite the ~onstant announcements· of this being the age of Aquarius, a new age of love and freedom. Hair was one of the most popular and successful plays during the rise of the counter- culture in •the late 60's and 70's and it is ~asy to see why. The play h.as a VItality acnd humor fresh even today, though, at the time of its inception, the language and sexual references weFe, for most, truly shocking and honest. Sex, authority, love, dissent, friendship, racial a.ttitu<ies, ·and the beauty and fr~edom of youth are all minor t:he· mes runnt' .· ng Gary Levine illustrates uniql!e microphone control. photo by Cindy Wolfson through the frame of the play. Hair, more than any literary or musiea~l accoun~.br.ings to life for one the ho,pes and frustrations of a generation of Americans five years our seniors. Thdr experiences, both good and bad, have b~d a profound effect upon our college experiences, and, having lived through those tumultuous years, Hair should evoke a response from everyone who views the performance. The music rocks and sways and the ~inging sends shivers of jay down the spine. The ·cast is as follows.: Gary Levine as Burger, Gary Levy as Claude, Nancy Lev·inthal as Sheila, Greg Freelon as Hud, Char!yce Jones as Dio11ne, Carl Dimatteo as Woof, Joanie Levinson as Jeanie, Gray Watkins as Steve, Kathy Gemdl as Crissy, SteW Abramson as Walter, Karen Bernh.ard as Suzanne, Jeff JoseJ>hson as Paul, Ellen Rasmussen as Mary, ElaineBaldwin as Emmeretta, Donn~ Jean Engelsberg as Diane, M icheal Sherer, Chris Kennedy, Amy Chodos, Jay Kohn and Robyn Leith. Virginia Lyle is directing Hair and Jeff Avrin conducts the music. The play will New Saga Deals BLAIR REISCHER Earlfer this year, a great deal of h0opla was raised about all the dif~erent kinds of meal plans, whtch would let a student eat at \ario1 feeding places on campus. You p.robably remember the steering committee . anQouncing that they had worked out a fantastic deal with Saga. Well, after considerable eXamination of the figures with the old SR-10, one will find out that the meal plans are not so great after all. Freshmen are required to .take the regular 20-meal plan at West College without options during tall term. This will cost $249. Upperclassmen and freshmen after the fail term will havw the choice of the regular 20-meal plan, the 20-meal plan with the option of eating at the Rathskellar or at Hale House at $270, the fou·rteen-meal plan with options at $236, or a ten-meal plan with t·he option at $197. The option is that for each meal missed at West,. the ticket is redeemable for $1.25 worth of food at either Hale House or the Ra thskellar. 10 Meal Plan The biggest rip-off among the alternative plans is the ten-meal p'lan. The cost of this breaks down to $18.48 per week. If you ~pend it only at the Skellar, you get ten vouchers totaling $12.50 in \alue per week. This is a loss of $5.98 per week. I:f spent on seven dinners and three lunches at West, you get $18.50 worth of food (based on the per-meal prices for next year), saving a grand tota·l of two cents per week. Thus, the possible effects of the ten meal plan on the wallet range from a loss of $5.98 to a gain of two cents. 14 Meals with Options The next alternative is the fourteen-meal plan with options. This breaks down to $22.13 per run for eight nights, May 31 to June 8. It begins at 8:00 p.m. sharp and is being Held at Nott Memorial (bring a pillow; no chairs ~ill be provided). week. If spent only at the Skeller it buys $17.50 worth of food. If spent on fourteen meals at West (seven dinners, six lunches and :\iun.day brunch) you get the eq utvalent of $24.50 worth of m~als (based on the per-meal pnces} .. This will save $2.37 per week; tf you eat at the Skeller, you lose $4.63 per week. 20· Meals with Options ~ith the 20-meal plan with opttons, t.he cost is $25.31 per week. Eatmg only at the Skeller, you get exactly $25 worth of food. This is only a loss of 31 cents per. week. Next year the cost of twenty individual meals at West will be $30.50 per week, plus 50 cents on steak nights. Buying the 20-meal option plan will still save you money if you eat only at ~est, but the 20 meal no option Will save you more: $7.19 per week over the per meal cost, as opposed to $6.50 with the option plan. The twenty meal plan \\>ithout options appears to be the best value for your money, and for only $21 more you can lose money at the Skeller. The average meal at West will cost $1.52, but for each meal you don't eat there you get a $1.25 voucher at the Skeller, a loss of 27 cents. More is lost if the student does nol eat dinner at West; he breaks 2ven if he does not eat lunch at West and gains if he does not ea~ breakfast at West. In fact, since breakfast at West will cost one dollar (continental 75~&} you will make money if you pay for hreakfast out of your pocket, and :;pend your $1.25 voucher (which would have paid for breakfast) at the Skeller. That will save you 25Q:. The prices for the other meals at West next year are: Lunch $1.50, Dinner $2.00, Steak Dinner $2.50, Brunch $1.50 The computations in this article are based on figures obtained from Mr. Usher in the Business Office, which assume that Saga will be operating for 74 and two- thirds days. AEC Ray . Dixy Lee Ray, chairman of the lJ .S. Atomic Energy Commission will give the principal address at commencement ceremonies, Saturday, June 15 at Union College. REP()~T~2'!.~E'!o~. Security Report I hope that this article provides a money-saving guide to the gastronomic delights of Union College. Yom Kippur Dr. Ray, the first woman ever ·appointed to a full five-year AEC term, wi!I receive the honorary Doctor of Civil Laws degree at the exercises marking the formal end of the College's I 79th academic year. The commencement speaker, Chairman of the AEC since Feb. 1973, was first named to the commission in August 1972. She came to tbe position ftom the University of Washingtoh, where she was Associate Professor of Zoology and Director of the Pacific S-cience Center in Seattle. A native of Tacoma, Washington; she is a graduate of Mills Co!Iege and received her doctorate from Stanford University, specializing in marine biology. Her' teaching career spanned three decades, first in the Oakland, Calif. public schools; th~,:n, from 1945 until the time of her ABC appointment; at the University of Washington. Union will confer approximately 622 earned degrees, including 468 bachelors degrees, to the first fully coeducational class since the Collwge first admitted full-time . women undergraduates in 1970. Also to be awarded are an estimated UO masters degrees and four doctorates. I ! ~ teva;s 'DEVELOPMENT, MAY 27, 1974 In tebruary of 1973 a report was submitted by request of the W orne~ 's . <;aucus to the Budget and Pnonttes Committee by John Kleinkauf, Sheila Beam and Edward Malloy.· In order to alleviate what was termed ''a continuing security problem,\ the reports recommended that improvements be made in three c.ategories: Personal Security and Safety, Room ll.nd Building Security for College Owned Dormitories and Manpower. The item which was considered to be most crucial for the persanal security and safety of the college community was the problem of inadequate lighting. The report rcecommended that a complete survey of lighting conditions on campus be made immediately and. action begun to correct any deficiencies. The survey was made and a report was again submitted to the Budget and. Priorities Committee by Mr. ~lemkauf. The report sets forth ~n detail a list of the areas where 1t was felt that either the present lighting arrangement was . insufficient or none existed at all. ln addition, the report contained cost figures for each area sighted. The gran~ total for the pl'oject was esttmated at roughly· $5,000.00. Other recommendations included keeping the Security Office and Information Center open on a 24 hour, 7 day-a-week basis, a new door-lock system and a student patrol to supplement the current number of campus patrolmen. Over a year has elapsed since the security problem at Union was brought to the attention of the Budget and Priorities Committee and yet, little has improved. At night, the campus is barely illuminated, and many frequently used walks and paths such as those leading away from the central campus to the dormit<:>ries and to Lenox Road are dangerously dark. Except for the ornamental lighting on the Psych()logy Building and Hale House~ the areas surrounding the Nott Memorial and Library Plaza are als.:> poorly lit. Only two men patrol the campus at night. It is their job to period icaHy check building security, &nd investigate any suspicious persons, ·cars, etc. Yet often these men must also be available to unlock buiJd,ings and open doors for evening activities and students who have lost their keys, handle traffic on special occasions, reset fuses an'd fire alarms~ investigate reports of theft, etc. . Under existing conditions, we at Union are fortunate that accidents and incidents of violence are few and far between. According to Mr. Kleinkauf, . . there have only been two reported' cases of assault since the college began admitting women on a full- time 'basis. However, other incidents that are not reported do occur and are the subject of great concer11 among female students. On Monday evening, May 13, a group of approximately 30 women met to discuss the problem of security. The meeting was called on very short notice by ~he W: omen's Caucus and only mvolved students living in Richmond House. The comments of the women clearly expressed a desire for more effective means af maintaining and improving campus security. The women were unanimously in favor of supporting a proposal for additional lighting and also the installation of security telephones in buildings where they would be available to students 24 hours a day. In light of student sentiment and existing conditions, the Women's Caucus urges this committee to re-examine the problem of security on this campus immediately. We propose that a study he undertaken by an independent group to establish the real needs and estimated expense of additionallightingand that the study then be submitted to the trustees and/ or any other committee responsible for appropriation of monies. We see no reason why the health and safety of the college community should not be considered of u t 11'1 o s t and i m mediate importance and urge that every effort be made to release the necessary funds for the project. Continued from Page 2 manner that has been proposed. From the article \Senate Acts\ in Concordy two weeks ago, lt seems that while the Senate did consider the pro's and con's of granting -a day recess on Yom Kippur, it failed to consider another aspect of the issue, namely - what will be the best way to call this recess. The best way for all Union students. After establishing the recess, by vote, I wonder if any alternatives were cons~dered as to the best way of altermg the Fall term schedule. Is there a better way than to have recess on the second day of the term, as voted in? I think so! While the Senate extensively considered whetber or not to call recess, it didn't consider how to call this recess extensively enough. Having already proposed an alternative How method above, and with many other options feasible, the Senate seems to have reneged on its full responsibilities. SHAME on you, ALL-COLLEGE SENATE! Dave Dombrowski Richard Lipowicz Bill Rota 1~~.~~-!!=~~~~~~~!:::'\':!!··~·~!:::\'~·~ ..... ~ ..... ~~~~ ..... ~·!!=~ \'~'\'~\\!!:!!!:\\~ .... ~!:& I ~ MOTHER FERRO'S \Featuring Italian-American Cusine\ 1115 BARRETT ST. SCHENECTADY 016-9554 .. ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~

Page _6. I CONCORDIENSIS, Thursday, May 30, 1974 Chivalry is Not Dead by \MIKEMAN CHALENDER\ In spite of the deplorable debasement of moral standards today, standards which hold virtue up to mockery, make honor a mere archaic word instead of a noble concept, and make a complete sham of all that is considered decent and good in the world that separate the civilized pursuits of man from mere bestial activity, two stalwart moralists, Lord Chades C. Holleman I and His Vice-President of the I.F.C.-ship Paul G. Daniel, met on the field oj ancient and honorable combat (Library Court) to resolve, in a manner befitting noble civilized gentlemen, the besmirchment of their names by one another. In a manner appropriate to the elegance and style- of. a bygone era, suitable belligerent and bombastic ,hallenges written with the juice of a viper's tootti flew back and forth for a full half- fortnight. Appropriately there was no physical contact between the two parties (this not being difficult as neither had ever met the other), rather communications were borne by Monsieur Daniel's second, His Idiotship Michael Alexander (He demanded that his name get in here somewhere). The agreed-upon hour was 12:30 p.m. on the twenty-fourth of May, M CM LXXIV Anno Domini. The combatants met at the appointed time. Lord Charles, the challenger, provided the weaponry. The arbitrator called for the Last Will and testaments of the dueling gentry, and then offered each in turn what might be his last gasping words on earth. The tension mounted in the swelling crowd as the refusals were tendered to deliver any ·last remarks. The choice of weapons proceeded. Daniel was presented with a choice of pistols manufactured by the Haase-Garofalo Cardboard Gun Cartel Kepel Daniel chose to have his second load his dueling instrument with Redi-Whip, leaving the A&P (W.E.O.) brand whipped cream to Lord Charles I. The arbitrator then instructed the participants to stand back to back and measure off twenty paces in accordance with his count. The order was then given to turn, advance, and fire at will. An air of anxiety gripped the crowd as the t.wo Titans slowly advanced, preparing each in turn to deliver the coup de grace. Lord I, upon being satisfied of the propriety of the distance between himself and his opponent, aimed and fired ·his volley at the dodging Daniel. Though struck, His Duelingship Daniel did not feel his honor satisfied, and, as is proper, continued. Then, in an act of unbecoming Bohemian vulgarity, he breeched his ground against the stiff code of dueling etiquette, advanced, and fired point-blank, leaving a gash of whipped cream across the face of the enraged Lord Charles. Honor having been satisfied, the duel ended for lack of ammunition. The feuding feudal foes, accompanied by their seconds, departed · the field. ( ~ I ( t t ~ a a p l h il \\ b I i e. tl tc s1 l \\ Cl p Sl A B a b ' c ll u h Sl 0 d n a

I CONCORDIENSIS, Thursday, May 30, 1974 Page 7 The Phonathon by LARRY PRIMACK · WRUC Wrises Wrapidly By Lou-Anne M. Beauregard . WR UC concludes another year of broadcasting on June 9th. This may be the last year the station will be broadcasting on the AM diaL ln the faU of 1973, an application was filed with the Fed,eral Communications Commission to give us a permit to construct an FM station. With their proverbial fingers crossed, t-he management and staff await an answer to the application. This year also saw the station move from Old Gym Hall into new, modern, and expensive studios in Carnegie fJaiL All this gives WR UC a more professional appearance. The staff became larger~ with the addition of a new way of approaching the news - live newscast~, at 7 p.m. Luke Dillon now adds spice to Thursday nights with his trivia show. Brian Ziegler, et at, with Sportsline· on Mondays, and Footsteps on Tuesdays are popular additions. Music programming now includes almost everything: C'lassical, progressive rock, jazz, soul, folk, Latin and nothing at all serious. In the future, WRUC seems headed for more professionalism in is pn'>gramming. Next year, if we go FM, the disc jockeys will be required to obtain third class licenses with broadcast endorsement from the FCC. A recent student poll indicated that 43.6% of the students listen to WR UC. The management and staff would now like to ask the Union . College Community for written suggestions and/ or comments on our programming, past and future. Please address all suggestions to: WRUC, Student Activities, Old Gym Hall. Get Things· Done C'ontinued from Page I Budget and Priorities Committee. The Development Committee is also concerned with the beautification of the campus, they complain when the grass isn't mowed and the flower beds are unkempt. Any suggestions on how to make i.J nion prettier and safer should be made to members of this committee. Financial Priorities The Budget and Priorities Committee is one of the most powerful committees on campus. According to the committees' functions roster, \it reviews annually College priorities and consults both with appropriate offices of the administration and the Board's Financial Committee, the Committee on Environmental Resources and Campus Development, and the Long Range Planning Committee.\ The Budget and Priorities Committee helps make up the budget of the College, which then must be app . .wed by the Board of Trustees. Members on the Committee strongly recommend that students make their priorities known. Student opinion does S{!em to carry some weight. Admission Procedures Students hava been heard to complain about the lack of diversity of the student body here. There is a place where voicing this opinion might accomplish something. This is the Admissions, Committee. The committee has the power to review decisions and policy concerned with Admissions procedures. A subcommittee of the Admissions Committee is the Committee on Academic Opportunity. This committee works closely with and sets up guidelines for the A.O.C. program. New Courses The Curricular Affairs ':ommittee (CAC) approves or disapproves all suggestions for new courses. Its subcommittees are the Comp Ed and Educational Innovations Committees. All courses approved by the CAC must in turn be voted on by the All-College Senate. Students who are worried about the direction which the type of courses being offered are taking (such as too general, or too specific~ should voice their objections to the members ef the committee .. Finam:ial Pain? What is the criterion for obtaining student aid? Is it a valid system? The Student Aid Committee sets the standards for awarding financial aid to students. Students on the committee do not vote on. · individual cases, but are~ concerned with the policy of the school in awarding aid. All recommendations for a change in policy must be approved by the Senate. There's More These are a few of the committees which should be of interest to students; these are some of the committees to which students can bring specific complaints and suggestions. A complete listing of all the committees can be found in the March 14th issue of Concordiensis, which is on file in the library. These committees can only be effective if students make use of them. Next week: The value ·of the Steering Committee and Who's Who in the administration. DARI- TREET 'Siadeat l)hceaM' (wkhi.D.) l049Van Vranken .. OIIL•Fri. 6-9, Silt. a.t 377-4~1 Photo by Ellen Radack Photo by Ellen Rldldl \Hello. This is l.arry Primack, Hnion College Class of 1975. We're all students here tonight. participating in a Phonathon, soliciting gifts for the Union College Annual Fund. Would you care to pledge a donation?\ ~ause. He's thinking. trying to translate my pitch into common language. Wait. he wants money. \l'm awfully sorry ... \ A series (if garbled replies by the callee. \Excuse me,\ l interupt, \we seem to have a poor connection, sir. would you mind speaking up?\ \Well. I'd like to give, but my financial situation isn't what it used to be, and I'm afraid that I'm just not able to help out.\ Keep him listening, the money is needed. \Excuse me, sir, but the school is suffering just as you are, but on a larger scale. Even a very small gift, five dollars or less would be a great help.\ \I'm sorry, even ·that would be too much of a strain. Good-bye.\ Anot-her failure. I've been working at this Phonathon for two hours now, and my success rate is falling quickly. The people sitting next to me aren't faring any better. We've been calling, two people per team per night, on the first of four nights. Gordon Decker, Bill Kuchta, and Roger Mendle, who are conducting the Phonathon, have fed us and given us pointers on soliciting, and are now collecting pledge cards and tallying them. The Phonathon isn't entirely a·ltruistic in nature, as concerns the participants. There are individual prizes of beer mugs for BLITHER Co-ed summer camp in the Berkshites needs female counselors for tennis, arts and crafts, ceramics, gymnastics or dance. Call Dennis at 370-6561 or Mark at 356-{)796. * * * * Apartment to sub-let on Park Place.- V2 block from campus. 4 bedrooms, 2 living rooms and kit chen. $40 per month (negotiable). June-September. Call Dennis or Jon at 370-6561. * * * * Wanted: student who would like free room and board with an elderly family on Union Street for the summer, or year round. Contact 393-5459. * * * * Attention aH students in the Classes of '75, '76and '77: Be sure to save your ID cards. Only the incoming class will receive new cards in September. * * * * On Monday, .Jurie· 3, 'tlie· Pre- Medical Society will present Dr. Paul Lowinger who will talk on Radical Psychiatry. Dr. Lowinger is National Secretary for the Medical Commission on Human Rights, part of New Detroit Marine Hospital Drug Program, professor at Wayne State University Medical School. The program will begin at 8:30p.m. in SSOI6. * * * Edwards House would like to thank the brothers of Delta Chi for their gracious assistance during the recent crisis. The H()use awards your showers four stars. * * * * There will be a picnic for all Dialing for dollars photo by Leslie Steineker highest dollar total and most Aumbcr .of contributors, and a keg of M ichelob for the winning team. There~s one catch ~ for a pledge to qualify, it must exceed last year's gift. An increase of even a dollar qualifies the entire amount. The contributions seem to go in streaks. Two in a row, then a !-leries of losses. This last failure bothers me, about my fifth straight, and, after all, what's five bucks these days? Time for another turkey ~ndwich. Things are bound to pick up my teammate has just secured a $40 pledge, up fifteen from last year. There's a collect call for me on the call back line. Apparently, one of my prospective donors received the message that I left with his wife about an hour ago. I explain our efforts, and he pledges $50, after donating nothing the previous. year. I thank him for his generosity and bless him silently for my change in luck. It's 9:30 p.m. and the Phonathon is over for the night. Singularly, none of us has met with overwhelming success but, as a group, we've collected over $3500, and excellent total, considering that we were working with alumni with poor contribution records. The alumni phonathons were responsible for contacting the more generous contributors. I'd imagine that the opinion is that the wrong word by a student could blow a big contribution. Not a bad night, I guess. In less than three hours, I was able to induce pledges of over $100, a great help to the school. I can't seem to shake this feeling of disappointment and frustration, though. If only every excuse was a five, or one, dollar pledge, with what a resounding success I would have met. Editor's Note: Larry Primack was on the Annex team, which competed in the phonathon. The winners of the entire competition were Smith House, and the total sum was $10,147.75. The Companion '78 program and the Women's Caucus are co- sponsoring orientation activities for men and women next fall. lf you applied to be an orientation counselor and did not make it, but are still interested in being involved with incoming freshmen come to the next meeting of the Women's Caucus. We will also hold elections for next year's officers. The meeting is Monday, June 3, at 9 p.m. in Carnegie 201. Big Brothers and Sisters Friday, ,_ _____ .,. ____ 11'1'!\_... May 31, in Jackson's Gardens at I,_IT-a· a·J·-·· .. 4 p.m. Food, fun and games - if \\1 ft ~;~~ns, the action moves to the lSAT-ATGSJ · * * * * The Big Feed! If you;re looking · for good food in the fall, or want · to be a waiter and earn your stomach's keep, contact A.D. Phi at 346-9688. * * * ---- LeVI'S ·mM&ANYST. No delitw,• tlul~ M'itlr tM.•o·8 rut piz:a1. ......... UII1'IL MIDNIGIII C.J'I-4-!81 \A QUIET BAR ... A PLACE TO TALK'~ THE Red Fox Inn PIZZA FRIDAY .t SATURDAY S.ll P.M • BUD BY THE PITCHER tl3.JAY ST. SCHENECTADY OCAJ IAn. BDS. • • ~a, 1 , 1 •:~';~:'\· _. .. zlll•t•.:•it: .............. .................... ........... •va~ullllllr• ua Ill fer._....., M.lllltlw_.M_. ... .\- :a11 ........ , ...... • IIIIICII .. r.ulfMilli. I IHI •. ..................... ........... •••w-r .. Ot'far .. , ........... .... fii·Oftl..-1& •Qip ...... IIC' ........ Cif.~ ._. ........ tilt .... ....... c., •• cu ....... . W1lllrn* -11111 n' w 8bll111 •• , llfiiJtl

Page 8 'II< . C«?~CORJ?IENS!S, T.hur~day, Ma:f 30' 1974 Lax drop Final to Dartmouth 15- 12 ·Russian Literature . \ . . n· ln· .·. zssent by JUDV DEIN The Union College L~crosse Team closed its season last Wednesday, dropping a 15-12 decision against host Dartmouth. The loss, however, didn't prevent the Garnet from achieving one of the best team record in decades. The Dutchmen won eleven games and lost only three. Against Dartmouth, Senior Co- Captain Dennis Wal~er played the last game of his collegiate career scoring 7 times, and praviding 2 assists, These points raised his total .goals for the season to 67, a figure which should be near the top in national ranking. Junior Robert Grossman tallied twice and assisted twice, to bring his total points to 94, the highest on the team. This figure includes 21 goals and 73 assists. Freshman John Thompson added one goal and two assists, to raise his total figure to 31 goals and 17 assists. Adding one goal each PITCHING: Urschel, Joe Jr., Albany, N.Y. Flanagan, Charles Fr., Harnden, Conn. Stockman, Steve Jr .• Newton, Mass. Paley, Noah Fr., Branford, Conn. Gould, Jon Jr., Manhasset, N.Y. Union against Dartmouth were Charlie credited ,with 6. Senior Co- Howe, and Jim Thompson. Captain Dave Hochscartner Making single assists were· Bob played his usual tough defense, Grabo, Jerry Dwyer and Bruce backed by Miike Garone and Bill Davis. Al Ritchie accounted for 'Garofalo. · ll saves w bile Steve H addarl was · UNION LACROSSE STATISTICS , Final ...... Won ll Lost 3 V .C. 12 Hartwick 11 U.C. 7 : Williams 10- . U.C. 15 Syracuse (ovt.) 14 U.C. 8 RPl 7 . U.C. 14 Middlebury '9 U.C. 10 St. Lawrence 5 U.C. 15 Trinity 13 U .C. 1 1 Siena U.C. 14 Colgate u.c. 15 u.c 16 u.c. 22 Hamilton Wesleyan RIT U.C. 7 Geneseo U.C. 12 Dartmouth 7 6 6 12 to 9 tS UNION BASEBALL STATISTICS IP H R ER 59 60 31 15 29 24 17 10 19 14 9 8 . 20 20 lR 10 9 II 8 7 .136 129 83 50 BB 24 14 16 16 5 75 so 26 10 9 11 3 59 W L ERA 4 3 2.29 l 3 3.f0 0 3.V9 0 2 4.50 0 7:00 On Wed;nesday :afternoon, Yuri Glaiov entertained a group of students with his lecture ort Solzhenitsyn and Pasternak. Mr. G:I~o:v, a Ru~sian emigrant, has been in the U.S, for only 2 yeats. He left . Russia after being · eXpelled from the Writer's Union and Moscow Uniwtsity for · signing some protest letters. He was con~equently unemployed f()r four years· and finally decided to leave the Soviet l:Jnion with his · family. Mr. Glazov explained that the United States and Soviet Unidn were like mirror-image sacieties. America is .. present or-iented,\ whereas the Russians live in the · past. Also, the Russians have no · conception of privacy; they are used to having the gover:nment intrude into their lives. The ·word \privacy .. does not even exist in the Russian language. Interspersing his speech with jokes, Mr. Glazov drew a. lot of laughter when he said that in the Soviet Union people haYe only two out of the three following characteristics: intelligence, integrity and party membership. So if you:re intelligent, and you have integrity, you c11n~t be a party member. Yuri Glazov gave rather m a very basic idea - whereas Pasterna'k portrayed the hero of Russia as a member of the intellegentsia, Solzhenitsyn rejects this idea and felt that the spirit of Russia lies in its common people. The religion of Russia should be the religion of the soil, Soizhenitsyn•s view. Glazov contrasted American revolutionaries with Russian revolutionaries. Whereas Opponent 135 !56 89 62 68 82 6 9 3.31 9 6 4.13 interesting descriptions and explanations of SoJzbenitsyn•s and Pasternak's works. Pasternak wrote Dr. Zhivago, and Solzhenitsyn is author· of works including First Circle, Cancer WaJ\d and A Day in the Life of Ivan Denisovitch •. Both men are considered leaciers of the dissident movement, American dissidents are anti- religien and p.to-socia,lism, Russian dissidents ate pro- religion and anti-Socialists. Glazov•s solution to the two cotmtries• problems: send the Russian dissenters to America and the American revolutionaries to Russia. While Glazov•s discussion about the two writers was very interesting, the highlight of the lect1,1.re was his description of his initial reaction to America. · As he entered New York and saw that all the Russian propaganda about .the poverty and dirt was true. he was condoned by the realization that \New York isn't a typical American City.\ Union ·5 Union 6 Union 4 Union 6 Union 13 Union 4 Union 3 Union 7 Union t.4 Union 10 Union 6 Union 0 Union 5 Union 2 Union 14 Final- Won 6 Drew WPI Siena Albany Albany Hamilton Rochester Hamilton Norwich RPI Siena RPI Hobart Middlebury Williams • Lost 9 6 8 I 7 4 5 0 6 5 3 8 7 9 3 7 BLITHER Both men were expelled :by the All students interested in Writers Union which meant that participating in the Temple their work could not, for the most . Service Cor:ps this summer in part, be published in the USSR. Schenectady should see Prof. They both received Nobel prizes, Berk in the History Dept. The . . . Despite Temple Service Corps is thetr tll treatment by the Soviet sponsored by Temple Gates of government both Pasternak and Heaven here in Schenectady. The Solzhenitsyn continued to Temple provides $50 a week for consider Russia their homeland. college studellts to work in the Pasternak was allowed to live his community in the summer. entire life in Russia, where he * * * * died in 1960. Solzhenitsyn is now A meeting of juniors who are living in Zurich -he was recently planning · to go to graduate expelled from the Soviet Union schools in the arts and sciences, against his wishes. Mr. Glazov was an entertaining and exhuberant speaker; After the first few minutes, no one noticed his strong accent and the fact that he occasiortally misused words. He was very warmly received and graciously offered everyone there an invitation to come and visit him at Boston College. Winter 1n Israel law schools, and business schools Despite their many similarities, will be held on Wednesday, June Pasternak and Solzhenitsyn differ 5 at 4:30 p.m. in SS016. At this · time there will be preliminary w ' Glee Club Are you dreading winter term in Schenectady, with the snow and cold and ice? Union College does offer an alternative, the term abroad program in Israel. Last year 20 students took advantage of the program which gives students the opportunity to live on a kibbutz, a communal type of farm unique to Israel. Students work on the kibbutz for six hours a day and have classes afterwards. Students earn credits for three courses; one in Hebrew, one in Israeli Civilization (Comp. Ed.), and one in an Independent Study. Some projects for the independent study have included research on the situation of Black Jews in Israel, and on Christians in Israel. Work, Play and Travel A meeting f ot all those interested in going to Israel next winter will be held on Monday, June 3rd, at 4:30 p.m. in SS 112. The reports from students who have just returned are more than favorable. Several students remained to spend spring term in Israel, a few who went were going for the second time, and several former Union students who participated in the program while they were here, returned for a year or so after graduating. Program called very successful The students stay at Kibbutz Gesher Haziv. There they are adoptea by a kibbutz family. Students work in the field, chicken coops, and kitchen along with the other kibbutzniks. The kibbutz sends the Union volunteers on ·several trips, so there is ample opportunity to see the country. The program lasts from mid-December to March and the flight tickets allow for a stopover on the return trip anywhere in Europe. Jobs for Graduates Technical Assistant B i o I og i c a I S c i e n c e s Department at Cobleskill. Head Resident Assistant- ships at Elmira College. Senior Citizen Pmgram Development Specialist with Nassau County (limited to residents); Information for all openings available in the Placement Office. Deadlines for applying soon!! * * * \' Open House at Paralegal Institute, 132 Nassau Street, New York. N.Y. 10038, May 14-June 14. 9 a.rn.-9 p.m., Monday-Friday; call (212) 9644705. \' • • * Job Fair Greatet New Yerk ~June 7 and 8, opportu1,1ity to apply to· 20 companies. More information at Placement .Office or call collect:· Phil Billr~an, (216) 762-6211. . discussion of application . 0 men s procedures and of fellowship . programs. * * * * The Intemational Relations Club will sponsor a panel discussion by students in Comp Ed 85 on the topic ''The Morality of Our Middle East Policy\ on Wednesday, June 5 at 8 p.m. in SSOI6. Prof. Nichols will moderate the discussion. * * * * Earn a credit while having fun - dancing! Modern Dance for beginners and advanced students will be offered twice a week next year; ff you ae interested in this new program, call Nancy, 370- 6595, or Hope, 370-6592. * * * * l.ast call fort)fdering Freshman Records - See Mrs. Marra at Student Activities. * * * * Seniors: Leave Union in Style! Let's get together to march, · en,/ masse, in the Alumni Day Parade! Contact Barbara Halpern, 346-9205. Interested students will meet Tuesday, June 4 at 3:30 p.m. in SSOI6. * * * * Cross•Country is almost more fun than studying; an important organizational meeting will be held Thursday, May 31, at 7;3() in the Block \U'• room. All sexes are welcome. (Editors Note! we could only establish tbat two exist). * * * * Please make yc;>ur reservations for the Alumni Day Family n: .... _:, t ... __ ., . .< ...,.,. i \t.'1n ..... ..-... The Union College Women~s Glee Clu!) will present a concert this Sunday. June 2, at 4:00p.m, in Memorial Chapel. There is no admission charge. Under the direction of Ms. Pat Deckert, the group will pt;rfonn works by Brahms, Faure, Copland • .Purcell, and otheF composers. Three selections from .. Alice in Wonderland'; will al!>o highlight the program. · Formerly known as the ·•women 's Chorus, •• the group ha.s been together since 'fall term and has performed several times for the · Union College community. Introduced at the .. Friday Noontime Musicales\ during winter term, the W Olllen's Glee Club has sqng for Parents' Weekend and most recently, for the area farewell dinner in honor of President and Mrs .. Martin. TYPING REASONABLE RATES CALL 393-2233 Vo 1 DEI The.4 a) b) c) d) 1 car a) an ir b) at me c) me I pa: a) b) I Li: und~e i\ Musi Secu' sever I her \Sec1 hots! Tl1 avail in ll knov H its I 1-'ridl Cad< ~ott folio c.s. Bise( i\ pain Men havi to i1 ca.n deve this We boy Jo list ' Unic off t knO\ cqui] it cc had the I i\ pop1 tend the I '' ho. n1ac rnta ,tuJ lor assu II jJI l.:llUf 'cas' seen finis spor spor mini oper hum .1\ in de Mer Fid was Met MH

