I'} \ ; 1'{ \Congrat!lJation~ . Dr. Bonner,. l'5th President t!f Union.\ ;I( \Come to \When·/ Use a Word, It Means Whatever I Choose it Tool -Humpty Dumpty the Concordy organizational ~eeting, Thursday, Oct. 3, at 7:30 in 305 Carnegie.\ . Vol. 104, No.1 Wedn~day, OctQbel' Z, 1974 Bomb· T;hreats ·to· Fox Rouse by PETE SOBOL H yourfri~nds from Fox House have seemed slightly under the weather these past few days., the following story wlll eXplain. why. The dance Saturday night was very successfuL Even if the beer was warm and the band took a very long l;>reak, and even if the. Skeller floor was flooded at l :00 AM., it was a good time. With all of Sunday to sleep it off, no one was worried about anyrhing. caller infor.med him that there was a :bomb in the building set to explode at around 6:00. Reisch awake.ned th¢ Fo:x RA's and called Mr. Kleinkauf, head of sec11rity, -and Dean Smith. With the help of seciuity .men; the RA 's proceeded to search bathrooms, ~howers - and uther pt!hlicly accessible places for a bomb. None being found by 5:45, they elected to evacuate the building, Hy 6:20, nothing had exploded so everyone went back inside. 35 cents C,lass An~lyzed Fres.hman: What, and Where Who, ·By Chris O'Connor One of the largest freshman classes ever to enroll at Union arrived on campus on the twenty- first of September. The arrival preced.edthe beginning of classes by four days to allow for an orientation program to be effected. At around 5;00 AM., th:e hall phone on third floor south Fox rang. A noctu,rnal resident answered and a maie voice asked for the head RA. It so ha-ppened ' that the head RA was in resiaence on that floor, and Al'Reisch was roused to speak to the caller. The At around 12:30 A.M. the following day (Monday) a call was again received on the hall phone of third floor south Fox, Again the caller asked to speak to the head RA, and when Reisch picked up the p_hone, the caller told him that there was a bomb ~et to explode at around 5:00 A.M, Reisch apparently asked the person where he was, and the person answered \around.\ Reisch then asked the caller '\Why ;lre you doing this?\ . and the caller said, \For fun.\ The RA's elected not to wake the residents of Fox, but. all those who asked Cabaret Relocates The class of 78, five hundred and forty-one strong, is made up of 336 men and 205 women. That is the largest group of women ever to enroll in one year, and represents a 60 percent ·increase over the distaff portion of the class of 75. Stuek '_ 0 Special To Concordiensis Stucco on buildings is \bad enough. Espec.ially when that stucco is applied over the only colorful place on an already gray and disma'l campus. As the last of the red brick waves bye-bye . through the ever-shrinking vacuoles in the unrelenting gray muck, one feels as if Montressor is p·utfing the last brick in place, and there is nothing to be qone to stop it. ·\ But the stuccoing has not stop.ped there. Fr-equent visitors to Jackson's Gardens may have notic.ed •that on some days recently it would be quite possible to do white water canoeing on the Creek that Reeks. Not due to any rise ill water level, merely because the water is now white. The Creek's water is not the cleanest whicn ever flowed through the campus, but that is no reason to line the Creek with stucco. Yes, they are stuccoing the brook! The fellows who have been working on SS and Humanities rinse their equipment into the storm drains· which run out into the brook, and presto. One long very shallow swimming pool. That this crud is allowed to be was:bed into Jackson's Gardens iJtdi<:ates a gap somewhere in the chain of interests to keep this campus from looking like a prison in a strip mine. Fortunately, the crud seems to be water soluble and a few good rains may wash it away. What a shame the rain will not have the same effe.ct on SS and Humanities. were told that the bl!ilding Would . ;be evacuated at around 4 AM. At 4.!15 the dorm was ~vayuated and the residents given c·bffee and donut& in Davidson Jo'unge. Very few people felt like sleeping early 'Tuesday morning in .Fox. A call was received on the private phone of one of the resident advisors asking for the head RA The advisor told the caller that the Head Resident Advisor did not live on that floor. The. RA then called Reisch, and a lew seconds 'later Reisch received another botnb threat on his private phone. This time the bomb was set to go off around Continued on pag~ 8 Spe-cial to Conc~>rdiensis THE Union College Cabaret, evicted from it~ previous location by the forthcoming all-campus mailroom, is relocating across the hall on the first floor of the Student Center. The Cabaret,. also known as Le Pitz, plans to open on or about the eleventh of Octo:ber 1 ,with a bigger and better fmma~ · tban ever. Lee Blo-omrosen, director of the totally student-run organization, stated that the Cabaret's aim is to provide a quiet, cafe-type environment as an alterJlative to, not a competitor with, the ex,isting · campus forms of entertainment. Once again, as last year, Cabaret's entertainment roster will include incidental mu~ic, short skits and plays, readings, and instrumental and vocal music. Plans are being discussed for nightly operation of Le Pitz, with live entertainment being Dogs on Trial By Cindy Sheppard The issue. of dogs on campus has long been a controVersial one. Last June, the All-College Senate passed a new ruling which is prese.ntly in effect oil a trial basis for this semester. A brief history of the canine. situation at Union begins with the College Senate ruling of Apr·il 1973. With the inte.ntion of removing all dogs from campus by June 1976, the Senate passed a cut-off registration system. This meant that only dogs registered by April 197 3 would be allowed on ca1npus. Andrey Kupchan, member of the Court on Traffic and Pets, explained that the problem last year was non-enforcement. It was because of dissatisfaction with the system that the controversy Colitinued on Page 11 provided weekly or twice weekly. 'Yhis daily operation has been made possible by the acquisition ofa restaurant and liquor license. Food director Mike Sherer hopes to provide a menu of hot food as well as sandwiches and salads. However, kitchen facilities at present are meager. Cabaret hopes to obtain some second hlii\d appliances, such as .stoves and . refrigerators, in order to provide the type of expanded Continued on Page 8 Travel A broad BY LARRY STONE ACCORDING to Professor A. R. Warde, acting director of all Term Abroad Programs, Term Abroad Programs are designed for all Union undergraduates, and Continued on Paee 5 Sixty-nine percent of the fr¢shmen are from New York State, with Massachusetts a distant second; providing just 10 percent of the class of 78. While the proportion of the class calling the Empire State home is about the same as last year, it is up 13% from the class of '75. Almost 21% -of the freshmen come from somewhere on Long Island, and . eighteen percent are from Nassau County alone. The latter figure is up ten percent over the senior class, Admissions Director Jay Shupe stated that it is not an entirely bad thing to have strong applicants from one geograpllic area., considering the trend of decreasing applications to colleges around the country. Academically, the class presents a paradox; the college boards scores are at a four-year nadir, Continu~ on Page 11 Social Co~nmittee Preview By Chris O'Connor The Union College Social Committee is hard at work preparing a schedule of concerts and dances for the fall term. On October 12, the Social Committee Will present the return to campus of Roomftd of Blues,, an outstanding band back at Union for the third time in as many years. The group plays pieces from the thirties, forties, and early fifties; including numbers by Benny Goodman and Duke Ellington. The, group will be playing at a mixer, that's right, a mixer, probably to be held in the gym. The next weekend, the eighteenth through the twentieth, is Homecoming; and a concert and coffeehouse are planned. The former will feature Bruce Springsteen, a product of Asbury Park, New Jersey, whose music has been described as \a head-on collision between Van Morrison and the Band,\ Social Committee Chairman Chris Fink calls Springsteen's seven piece band \a dynamic group\ that will \blow the doors off' Memorial Chapel. The coffeehouse will feature Goebel and Laing, a powerful duo on guitar and keyboard. !he . same group will also be iiitroducing, for the first time on any stage, their four piece band as ' the warm-up for the Springsteen concert The 11ex.t date, the second of November, was described by Fink as a \rowdy boogie-type mini concert,'~ fe~turing an gldies Continued on Page 11 B.S.A. THE first Black Student Alliance meeting of the year was held this past Thursday in Hickok House. Co-Chairmen William Collins and Thomas Watts presided. The purpose of the meeting was to introduce the Black freshmen to Black members of the faculty, other Black students and the workings of the Alliance. Attendance appeared to be restricted to Black studet1tS , · living in Hickok, Professors Styles, Smith and Daniels attended as did J. Anthony Sharp, Director of. Upward Bound and Donne! Underwood, Asst. Director of Admissions. New Black personnel attending were Assistant Deans of Students Jay King, a former student at Union, and Carlos Hill,. a Dartmouth alumnus. Mrs. Sheila Weaver, a new physical education instructor, attended as well. The workings of the Alliance (()ntinued oil Page 4

I/ ', ! lr' ' ' .. Congratulations, Dr. Bonner, 15th President of Union.\ \Come to the Concurdy organizational meeting, Thursday, Oct. 3, at 7:30 \When I Use a Word, It Means Whatever I Choose i,t Too! -Humpty Dumpty in 305 Carnegie.\ Vol·. 104, No. 1 Wednesday, October 2, 1974 Bomb Threats to Fox House by PETE SOBOL If your friends from Fox House have seemed slightly under the 'Mather these past few days, the 1 allowing story will explain why. Ihe dance Saturday night was \erv successful. Even if the beer v.a~ warm and the band took a Hry long break, and even if the Skeller floor was flooded at I :00 AM., it was a good time. With all of Sunday to sleep it off, no one was worried about anything. caller informed him that there was a bomb in the building set to explode at aroutnd 6:00. Reisch awakened the Fox RA 's and called Mr. Kleinkauf, head of security, xmd DeaR Smith. With the help of security men, the RA 's proceeded to search bathrooms, :-.howers and other publicly accessible places for a bomh. \one being found by 5:45, they elected to evacuate tme building. Hy 6:20, nothing had exploded so everyone went hack inside. 35 cents Class Analyzed Freshman: What, and Where Who, By Chris O'Connor One of the largest freshman classes ever to enroll at ll nion arrived on campus on the t wcnty- tirst of September. The arrival p reced edt he beginning of classes by four days to allow for an orientation program to be effected. At around 5:00 A.M., the hall phone on third floor south Fox rang. A nocturnal resident answered and a male voice asked lor the head RA. It so happened that the head RA was in residence on that floor, and AI Reisch was roused to speak to the caller. The At around 12:30 A.M. the following day (Monday) a call v.as again received on the hall phone of third floor south Fox. Again the caller asked to speak to the head R A, and when Reisch picked up the phone, the caller told him that there was a bomb :-.et to explode at around 5:00 A.M. Reisch apparently asked the person where he was, and the person a mwered \around.\ Reisch then asked the caller \Why are you doing this?\ and the caller said, \For fun.\ The RA 's elected not to wake the residents of Fox, but all those who asked \\<ere told that the building would he evacuated at around 4 A.M. At 4:15 the dorm was evacuated and the residents given coffee and donuts in Davidson lounge. Cabaret Relocates I he class of 7~, five hundred and forty-one strong, is made up of 336 men and 205 women. That is the largest group of women ever to enroll in one year, and represents a 60 percent increase over the distaff portion of the class of 75. Stuck- 0 Special To Concordiensis Stucco on buildings is bad enough. Especially when that stucco is applied over the only colorful place on an already gray and dismal campus. As the last of the red brick waves bye-bye through the ever-shrinking \acuoles in the unrelenting gray muck, one feels as if Montressor is putting the last brick in place. and there is nothing to be done to stop it. Hut the stuccoing has not stopped there. Frequent visitors to Jackson's Gardens may have noticed that on some days recently it would be 4 uite possible to do white water canoeing on the Creek that Reeks. Not due to any rise in water level, merely because the water is now white. The Creek's water i~ not the cleanest v.hich ever flowed through the campm, but that is no reason to line the Creek with stucco. Yes, they are stuccoing the brook! The lellows who have been working on SS and Humanities rinse their equipment into the storm drains v.hich run out into the brook, and presto. One long very shallow swimming pool. lhat this crud is allowed to be \1 a shed into Jackson's Gardens indicates a gap somewhere in the chain of interests to keep this campus from looking like a prison in a strip mine. 1-ortunatelv. the crud seems to be water soluble and a few good rains may wash it away. What a shame the rain will not have the same effect on SS and Humanities. Very few people felt like ~leeping early Tuesday morning in l-ox. A call was received on the private phone of one of the resident advisors asking for the head RA The advisor told the caller that the Head Resident Advisor did not live on that floor. !'heRA then called Reisch, and a lew seconds later Reisch received another bomb threat on his private phone. This time the bomb was set to go off around Con1tnued on page 8 Special to Concordiensis 1 HE Union College Cabaret, evicted from its previous location by the forthcoming all-campus mailroom, is relocating across the hall on the first floor of the Student Center. The Cabaret, also known as Le Pitz, plans to open on or about the eleventh of October, with a bigger and better format than ever. Lee Bloomrosen, director of the totally student-run organization, stated that the Cabaret's aim is to provide a quiet, cafe-type environment as an alternative to, not a competitor with, the existing campus forms of entertainment. Once again, as last year, Cabaret's entertainment roster will include incidental music. short skits and plays, readings. and instrumental and vocal music. Plans are being discussed lor nightly operation of Le Pitz. with live entertainment being Dogs on Trial By Cindy Sheppard l he issue of dogs on campus has long been a controVersial one. Last June, the All-College Senate passed a new ruling which is presently in effect on a trial basis lor this semester. A brief history of the canine ~itua tion at Union begins with the College Senate ruling of April 1973. With the intention of removing all dogs from campus by June 1976, the Senate passed a cut-off registration system. l\his meant that only dogs registered by April 1973 would be allowed on campus. Andrey K upchan, member of the Court on Iraffic and Pets, explained that the problem last year was non-enforcement. It was because of dissatisfaction with the wstem that the controversy Continued on Page 11 provided weeklv or twice weeklv. I his daily op~ration has be~n made possible by the acquisition of a restaurant and liquor license. 1--ood director Mike Sherer hopes to provide a menu of hot food as well as sandwiches and salads. However, kitchen facilities at present are meager. Cabaret hopes to obtain some second hand appliances, such as stoves and refrigerators. in order to provide the type of expanded Continued on Page 8 Travel A broad BY LARRY STONE ACCORDING to Professor A. R. Warde, acting director of all Term Abroad Programs, Term Abroad Programs are designed for all Union undergraduates, and Continued on Paee 5 Sixty-nine percent of the lreshmen are from New York State, with Massachusetts a distant second; providing just 10 percent of the class of 78. While the proportion of the class calling the Empire State home is about the same as last year, it is up 13t:( from the class of '75. Almost 2JC:( nf the freshmen come from ~omewhere on Long Island. and eighteen percent are from Nassau County alone. The latter figure is up ten percent over the senior class. Admissions Director Jay Shupe stated that it is not an entirely bad thing to have strong applicants from one geographic area, considering the trend of decreasing applications to colleges around the country. Academically, the class presents a paradox; the college boards -;cores are at a four-year nadir, Continued on Page II Social Committee Preview By Chris O'Connor any ~tage. their lour piece hand as I he t:nion College Social ·the warm-up for the Spring,teen Committee is hard at work <.:onccrt. preparing a ~chedule of concerts I he next date, the second of and dances for the fall term. '.Ouvemher, was described hy Fink On Octoher 12. the Social as a \'rowdy hoogie-type mini Committee will present the return concert,\ featuring an oldies to cam pu~ of Roomful of Blues. Continued on Page 11 an outstanding hand back at' Union for the third time in as many year~. rhe group plays pieces !rom the thirties. forties. and early fifties; including numbers hy Henny Goodman and Duke Ellington. Ihe group will be playing at a mixer, that's right. a mixer. probably to he held in the gym. I h c next weekend, t he eighteenth through the twentieth, IS Homecoming; and a concert and coffeehouse are planned. l\he former will feature Bruce Springsteen, a product of Ashury Park, New Jersey, whose music has been described as \a head-on collision between Van Morrison and the Band.\ Social Committee Chairman Chris Fink calls Springsteen's seven piece hand \a dynamic group\ that will \blow the doors ofr' Memorial Chapel. !he coffeehouse will feature (ioebel and Laing, a powerful duo on guitar and keyboard. The same group will also he introducing, for the first time on B.S. A. THE first Black Student A Ilia nee meeting of the year was held this past Thursday in Hickok House. Co-Chairmen William Collins and 1 hnmas Watts presided. I he purp(lSC of the meeting was to introduce the Hlack freshmen to Hlack members of the faculty, other Hlack students and the '.l.orkings of the Alliance. Attendance appeared to he restricted to Black 'turit•Ht:- living in Hickok, Pr,)ft~scrs Styles, Smith and I laniels attended as did J. Anthony Sharp, Director ol l1 pward Hound and Donne! l'nden\Ood, Asst. Director of Admissions. :--;ew Alack personnel attending were Assistant Deans of Students Jay King, a former student at Union, and Carlos Hill. a Dartmouth alumnus. Mrs. Sheila Weaver, a new physical education instructor, attended as well. lhe workings of the Alliance ( ·ontinued on Page 4

P11ge 2 CONCOROIENSIS, Wednesda.y, October 2,1974 Editors-in-chief ............................. Chris O'Connor Rob Mondschein Culture Editor ..................................... Peter Sobol Features Editor ........ : .................. , ....... John Scheer Sports Editors .............................. Kevin Crawford Bill Under-hill Photos Editors ................................. Ellen Raddak Cliff Langweiler Bob Johnson· Historical Editor ....................................... Bill Talis Contributing Editor .............................. .Judy Dein Business Manager ............................. .Jennifer Port National Advertising .......................... Steve Kelley Subscriptions Editor ............................... Lisa Tietz Staff: Audrey Rothchild, Janet Chapman, Lee Schwartz, Doug Carpenter, Phyll~s Edelman CONCORDIENSIS is published every Wednesday ·by the student body of Union College, Old Gym Hall, Schenectady, N.Y. Publications Office: The Jewish World Publications, 771 State St., Schenectady, N.Y. 12307 (346-2356.). Entered in the Schenectady Post Office as Second Class Matter. Subscription Rate 35 cents per copy. $8.00 a year delivered anywtJere In the United States. Deadline for copy is Tuesday 5:00 P.M. To Inforin With this issue, Concordiensis, which in Latin means \Union begins its 97th year. The new editors are · proud to 'be part of this tradition. We are excited about the challenge of giving you a publication that you will be proud of. The editors of this paper see several purposes for Concordien~is. First, it is the disseminator . ' I , .-_ ' , , • ~ of news at Union College. It's one of the most effective compmnicators on a campus of this size. Second, Concordy is the community forum, enabling the members of this community to talk to one another. Third, Union College exists within a larger community; a commufiity that has many events and amenities to offer. This paper will teH you about them also. Concordiensis is also a learning experience for the people who w9rk on it. We, who work on Concordiensis are interested in various aspects of journalism. Be it perfecting a journalistic style, experimenting with photography, learning how to investigate stories, or doing artwork, layout or editing. We produce your newspaper while learning constantly about how best to do that job. If mistakes are made, we will make up for them, but we can only learn from our mistakes. We hope that people will want to become involved in this venture; perhaps we can best learn by teaching each other. We wish to make a request to all students. Whether you wish to become involved in the newspaper or not, please give us your thoughts on what we do. the editors An lnvitatio.n This is directed to all students, but in particular to minority and foreign students. Since we've worked on Concordiensis we have known few black or foreign students to work on it. If you want to learn how a newspaper works, or if you want to test your joun1alistic capabilities, this is the place to come. We want and need your help. Writing, layout, photography and art are the four basic categories of Concordy. We are not experts and need people to teach us also. the editors ·CONCORDIENSIS C'ONCORDI.ENSIS i~ published every Wednesday during the school year excep-t during examination and vacation periods by tile student body of ll nion College, Schenectady, N.Y. National Advertising Representative: National Educatioill\i Advertising Service, Inc., NYC. Editorial Office: third Aoor .Carnegie Hall, Union College. Publication Office: The Jewish W orid ·Publications, 771 State Street, Schenectady, New York, 12307 (346·2356). Entered ill the Schenectady Post Office as Second <:lass Mail Matier. Subscri'piion rate: 35 cents per copy, 8 dollars per year delivered anywhere in the United States. .Deadline for all copy, which must be TYPED AND UOlJBU: SI>Ao:o, is 7 p.m. on Monday at the CONCORDiENSIS office, located on third Aoor Carnegie. FOR ALL EDITORIAL MATTERS, ·CALL THE EDI'fOR·IN•CHJEF AT 370-6639. FOR JNI''ORMATJON, CALL MRS. MARRA IN THE STUDENT ACTIVITIES OFFICE AT 370-()118. by JUDY Dt:IN They · say that miracles do happen, and to the amazement of many, Union College seems to have been given another chance. Despite, m more probably because of its :reputation as a white racist-male dominated school, Union is attempting to . create a college \community\ and a sense of being \everyone's school\. lnspi.r:ed by the new president, Dr. BoHner, students, faculty members and administrators are taking the first step; frankly vmcmg thei.r opm10ns about what they consider to be the major problems at Union. Discrimination, especially that which exists between whites and mmority students on campus has been cited most often as; the . most prominent social challenge at Union College. During orientation several panel discussions chaired by Harriet Kaplan and Fred Pressly, and concerned with life at Union have been sponsored by the orientation committee. On Sunday, September 22, \Group Interactions\ directed toward educating the freshmen about the strain which exists between different so-called \groups\ on campus, i.e. fraterniti~s •. minority · students and women!•;nEach member of the panel spoke about how .he or she viewed the actions of another group of the college of whiCh he or she. was not a member. Thomas Watts, member of the Black Student Alliance and f6rmer editor of Perspective,. the minority student newspaper, spoke first. He explained that he felt that most blacks view fraternities as white male organizations which perpetuate the fallacy of white male supremacy which pervades white America's ideology. He does not object to the exclusiveness of fraternities as did Ms. Vetterling of the Philosophy department, an active member of the Women's Caucus. Ms. Vetterling feels that fraternities should be open to all Trustee Dies Allen Jackson Greenough, graduate of Union and trustee of the college from 1966-1973, died Saturday, September 21, of cancer. He was 69 years old. Mr. Greenough took a civil engineering degree from Union in 1928. He joined the engineering corps of th;e Pennsylvania Railroad within a month of his graduation, and rapidly advanced through the company hierarchy. In 1959, he was chosen ahead of dght oth~r vice-presidents, aU of whom ahead of him on the con'lpany organiz.ational charts, to become president and chief administrative officer of the company. He remained in that rosition until his retirement in 196&. Mr. Greenough was a member of the Chi Psi fraternity during his undergraduate years, and ren1ained active with the rraternify after graduation. His gifts to the Union chapter were important in the renovation of the lodge, and a room there is dedicated to him. people regardless of sex,. race or color. Mr. Watts' oppositions to the fraternities lies in the phil~ osophy he feels is advanced by white fraternities. Joe'! Buckberg, representing the Interfraternity Council, claimed that fraternities are open to all male students, the sex discrimination being imp.osed Qn the fraternities by their national organizati0ns. He did concede, however, that almost all the brothers are white. Geoff Taylor, Resident Advisor at Davidson and student representative to the board of trustees, eJS,.plained rather apologetically that he could not explain how white males view black women since he does tlot feet that he has any black female friends or associates. This, he feels, epitomises the problem; due to the small number of minority students on campus it is rather easy to ignore them. Lois Thimms, a member of the Bac·k Student Alliance, objected to his philosophy. She feels that the black and white me-n· on campus have a rather' definite bpini'on of black women; they ·perceived of them as prostitutes. It was generally conceded that many generalizations were made, but then the question arose, don't we all often think in stereotypes and gen~ralizatiohs'? An important point raised was that actions or intents are not that important but rather how others interpret the events. A white may not consider a comment to be \racist\ but if blacks find it offensive the comments must cease. · Celeste Anderson, a member of the Black Student Alliance, perceives white men as \superficial\. Ms. Anderson feels that the altempts of the white men to meet and speak with her only led her being their \black experience\ . .By speaking with a black, the men could then claim that they \ul).derstood\ blacks. Ms. Anderson objects to playing the role of speaker for her people. She is tired of superficial Have you ever thought you . would enjoy helping out a child who is disadvantaged and . in need ·of adult companionship? If so, you might be illterested in Onion's Big Brother /Big Sister program. Through this program Union students are paired with children in the community who are in need of' a valuable friendship. A student gets together with the child as often as he .:wishes for activities both' might enjoy; Also, there will be free group activities such as !}lOVie,s,_ trips, picnics, etc. scheduled several times each term. For anyone interested in such an activity, there will be ail organizlltional meeting on Monday evening, October 7 at 8 p.m. in Strauss Lounge. All old and prospective Big Brothers and Sisters are urged to attend. Any questions may be directed towards Barbara Roslyn '(346-9304), Dave Strom (37Z-4987), or Paul Lazor (346-9426 ). conversations, and feels that the people who approach her do not honestly v.;ant to know her, only to know a black. Ms. Anderson's statements led to much discussion. The questions often arose, don't all conversations and relationships .begin superficially? Don't all people at one time· in their lives play token representative of either their race; sex, economic or political. group? · Perhaps by perceiving their role as educator instead of simply a ·~token experience'' each • individual chould share their experiences and truly make others aware that there.are other ways of living and feeling and perceiving. Dean Smith attributed the superficiality seen by Ms. Anderson to fear, and \anticipated aversion\. White males are afraid of the black females since they don't understand them. Yet the whites are afraid to become intimate with bl~wk women having been taught to expect an unfavorable experience with members of another race. One freshman was rather upset at the end of the discussion and. said that she came from a tension free high school and is perturbed that such tensions do exist. The only answer to this. statement is that which Jay King, one of the heads of the Academic Opportunities Consortium and Assistant Dean of Students, said, We all have to understand that the problems do exist in order to help solve them. ' Sincere and hopefully effective programs for improvement have been started at all levels of the college and are open to everyone, Fortunately, people can no longer afford to view the problems and either ignore them or mark them down as unsolvable. As they say in the storvbooks - the time has finally come when everyone must participate and support attempts involved in the rebirth of U·nion College and hopefully a true intellecutal and social community will be created. Wha of •eno are wa: learnin. w.llere : t:t.om t place i gradua cducati profes~ si1e. ha countr) Just learnin1 of hein, the Col cares m other i contrib1 it. to he all of w raraphr ask not you can In U togethe1 the na~ cxamplt bc;lieve. This c.hange! seeking maintai buildin1 part of new se1 plan. <U affect .t effort, .1 stan. a alumni. Ther• are pee are ·tin courses who ste: will ha~ can dis· there ·a can anc Hut trouble· campm small • .~, and be happen which~ make~ this Co unfinisl making One . fall is College options and ent future cxcitem ideals o who is contentJ belongi1 Worn solitary M this, out to · indilten I he! appreci; getting this C't moraUv have a~ we can satisfvir College. You. I. ' represe: the ca1 organi7 fihd 01

CONCORDlENSIS, Wednesday, October 2, ·1~74 PageJ 1 · ·· Pr.es:ident Examines . . . ·Un::ion'·s Co.n~:ition \\A College that cures rnade up What kind of place is Union anyway? It is a place of ·enormous potential whose spiFitll and energies ~re waiting to be relea$,ed. It is foremost a !'\lace of learning, both inside ·and· outside the classroom, w.ttere students learn with the faculty and not just from the faculty. Something ·ef i~portance takes place in t~he: ;rrves of~ those .who learn here; its· graduates-: li~ve ma<fe-: a: :P:hehomenal record ill education, 'b.tisiness, 11n:tnce, politics. and the pFOfes~ions. No college in America, certainly of this si1e, has a better record of producing leaders for the country. / Just as important, Union is a place where learning ·to live together with a sense of belonging, of being a part of a community is a major goal of the College. What we seek here is a college that cares made up of .people wl10 care - about each other and 11bout Union itself.. l want you to contribute to this community as well as benefit from it. to help make it a better and happier place where all of us can grow into t\hc. best we can become. To paraphrase John Kennedy's\ phrase of a decade ago: ask not wha.t the College can do for you, but what vou can do fo\r the College. · In Union there is strength but we must do it together. lt isyou who fTltlSt help silence the cynics, the nay-sayers, the would\-be vandals by your example acd the courage to speak out lot what you believe. · This Col-lege stands on the eve of . important c,hanges in direction, 'in h~manizing the campus, in seeking new support for our programs, in maintaining the beauty of the campus, and in building a strong sense .of pride and joy in being a part of this effort. l want to sec a lively campus. a new sense of community. an· etTecti·ve educational plan. and a caring atemosphere -- all of which will affect .everything else. including· our admissions effort, the morale and quality ·ef our faculty and stan~ and the interest and support of the public, alumni. foundatioos. and other benefactors. There are tirnes when you wi}.) be lonely ·- there are people here woo care· and w;mt to listen .. There an: ·times w.bt;n you will be worried about your courses and your grades ·- there arc people here whe stan·d. ready to help. 'lh,ere are times when you will have a problem so pers0nal that ~you think you can discuss it with rio one t..\ise -~ but I assure you there ·are people, both professional and not. who can and will do something to help. But remember. too, that you Cl!ri help the troubled or lonely student; you .can help solve the campus problem that vexc!i you, \you can do~ the small. q.uiet things that help to make this a happier and better place .. College j~ not something that happens to you ·~ you are not a passive vessel into which knowledge and experience are poured -- you · make your own college experience and you make this College what it is. The making of this College is unfinished business and you can play a part m making it the kind of place y(m want it to be. One of every three students on the campus this fall is new to lJnion. ln this sense. it is a new College. ·~ new time. a ne11~ .future alive with many options. The College badly neeps the help and spirit and enthusiasm .of all its students :1s we enter that future together. We need a new feeling of excitement in learning. a new commitment to the ideals of service and caring on the part of every~me who is a part ol this .College. 'I here can be no contentment lor the few unless there is a sense of belonging lor the. many. Women, black students, the less affluent. the solitary loner ·must be seen a tld fe.lt .as full members of this community. while they. in turn, must reach out to trust and help others and to tell us of our indifference or injustice if they experience it. I believe that this year's Union students are appreciative ol their opportunities, serious about getting an education. and \\.rant to help in making this College a better place educationally and moraUv for all who have a stake in its future. We have a~ administration an,d ,a faculty who will do all we can to help you in finding a fulfilling and satisfying experience in your years at Union College. We are here to serve and to help. You. too, can help. I. We very much nc¢d your positive eHorts to represent an<i speak for the Colfcge both on and oil the campus. Work with vour resident advisors. (Hgani7ations. and student· government leaders to find out how you can help m~~,e this a better. campus, as wei'! as help the College off the campus. 2. Tell us whaf is wrong abou~ the O>llege; tell orher-s what ill right at Union. 3. Do not acc.ept lhe criticism of those who say o.nly \np\ to life. Remember Lincoln's words that \He has the right to criticize who has the heart to help.\ Do n.ot believe those who do not have the heart to help. · 4. Feel free to speak up and to offer your suggestion~. Write or tell me what you believe I should know. l want the ideas and help of each one of you. 5. Take part in the activities planned to muke you a part oi this community: go to college panels u nd town meetings: attend the concerts. lectures, and ha>tbecues; support the football and other teams; take pert in recreational and intramural . sports; get into as many .things as your schedule will possibly permit. For myself. I am committed in my freshman year as President to the goals I have set for the College: longer-range planning. a strengthened program of communications and financial support, more attention to st.tldent life and morale. better care of the physical appearance and cpndition of our campus. the the· creation of a more· caring and concerned environment throughout the College. With your help. we cannot fail to make this one of the most important' and excit·ing years in the history of l]nion College. · -. Housing Situation Inspected ONE can walk dow·n several floors of the dorms at Union, expecially in Davidson, and see a lot of beds in what were supposed to be the lounges ·ofthe four-man suites. Visitors? No, these are 23 freshmen who, unfortunately, are in five-man suites. According to Debbie Kilgus, director of housing at Union, these fi¥e-man suites are the result ·of an unexpectedly high enrollment of freshmen. The college regularly accepts more students than it can adequately house, because it operates on an expected rate of no-shows (students who put a deposit down at Union and then decide not to attend). No-shows should inform the college of their intentions, but many do not. The result is temporary overcrowding in the dorms. Ms. Kilgus stated that if the college had not taken into account these no-shows, approximately 25 students who • wen;! accepted would not have been, · .. However, Ms. Kilgus expects the inconvenienced students to be living in uncrowded conditions soon. Due to the normal rate of student attrition (drop outs, etc.) in the first few weeks, enough space will soon be available. Registration ended Friday, and 20 keys were still not picked up. f'urthermore, a new policy is presently being instituted which will hopefully bring no-shews under more control in the future. Up to now, students who put down a deposit and then changed schools, whether they informed Debbie Kilgus, Dean of Housing INTERVIEW WITH DEAN OF HOUSING - the college or not, lost their $100 deposit. Now, however, if a student changes his nr her mind and goes to another school, he or she Will' be fined in addition to loss of the deposit. It is hoped that this new policy will help the college avoid another year of overcrowded living conditions. · THE college, since its change to~~' co-education, has been slowly reflecting this change in its housing policy. At the beginning, North and Richmond Wert? all female. On Friday nights men would go over to North and try to stare in the windows. It was a fortress and an unnatural situation. Now West, Fox, Potter, Davidson Co-op,. and Edwards are co-ed and North, Richmond, \ Smith House, and McKean House are all female. West, the Davidson Co-op and Edwards House have inBI\eased the number them in their living conditions than do men. Ms. Kilgus agrees, and calls the difference \biatant inequality\ but does note several changes occurring. 'The first is that with more co-ed dorms females are living under the same cond.itions as many of the men. She notes that Webster is all male and has very good services such as lounges and kitchenettes. She states that the current operating budget was approved two years ago during a time of paying back debts and building a library. Ms. Kilgus said that President Bonner and Provpst Entemann see the necessity for improving the dormitory living conditions and will include this item in the budget for the 1975~ 76 fiscal year. ihe point that must be emphasized, she said, is that students must care about the living conditions and be respectful of the property. The reason is of females living there this· year ' and have reduced the male to female ratio. Ms. Kilgus is in favor of more integrated Jiving situations within dotrns, but notes · clear; when something gets it is a slow process of change. due _ to squatters rights. It is obvious to most pe~ple on campus that the women have many tnore amenities offered broken it cannot be easily · replaced. She gave as a few examples the costs of dorm furniture. The lamps in the lounges cost $25 apiece and to buy a lounge couch costs between $500-1,000. One final point that was made was that there are people who have to clean up after Continued on Page 4 A Building in Search of a Purpose The College Center (Carnegie rlall) is a big, old building with a lot of empty rooms. Meanwhile, fhe need for a central place where students and fac11lty can socialize and exchange ideas has been painfully obvious on this campus for quite a while. Concrete and steel does not a College Center make. People, programs and ideas are what will create a functioning College Center. Unfortunately, the only ingredients we don't have are people, programs and ideas. Student and faculty interest in the planning and development of the Center is essential for its success. l'he College Center Committee will be actively seeking your participation. suggestions and imagination. Just think, your wildest fantas1es may develop into a club sport! Instead of all of us complaining that there is nothing to do, let's work together to make something exist. Although money isn't necessarily the total answer (witness the Cabaret), I have submitted a proposal to the Hoard of Trustees to solicit some funds. Come help. There will be a meeting for all interested ~tudents, faculty and admiQistrators who wish to complain about the .College renter, develop the College Center, destroy the College Center or none of the above: on Wednesday, October 9 at 7:30pm at the College Center, in Strauss. Lounge. We really need your support.

Page4 CONCORDIENSlS, Wednesda~, October l, 1974 Blither All persons interested in club sports must have physical exams. Those interested in these sports, such as rugby, skiing and sailing should contact Mrs, Marra in Student Activities to make necessary arrangements. * * * * Bruce Sostek and Geoff Taylor, student representatives to the Board of frustees, will be meeting at '10 P~ M. each Thursday at Strauss Lounge in the College Center beginning Oct. 10th. They will be releasing a bulleti·n soon after the board meeting this weekend informing students what decisions were made a:nd what issues will be coming up in future meetings. Students throughout the year are asked to look at Concordy for further developments from the Board of Trustees and voice their opinions to t'heir representatives. * * * * Attention For all registered voters of Nassau County, If you have not already filed an. application for an absentee ballot you may get one from Nadine A Foster,. Fox Hall, Rm. 356. * * * * Attention Photography Buffs: There will be an important meeting for all people interested in taking pictures and/ or doing darkroom work fm: Concordiensis and the Union Book on Friday at 2:00. If you can't attend, please leave a note in the Concordy mailbox at Student Activities: The meeting wi:ll be in the· Union Book room on the 4th floor Carnegie (the Student Center);. * * * * ' Freshmen, sophomores, juniors, and seniors- Thursday night at 7:30, the Union Book, Union College's yearbook is having a short organizational meeting. We're in need of a working staff for photography. darkroom experience, typing, proofreading, and layout. No experience necessary. Our meeting place: Carnegie Hall, 3rd Floor, Union Book office. * * * * RA's and Fraternity presidents please contact Lynn Sutton (212 Fox-370-6635) concerning the amount of Union's Week you would like delivered weekly. * * * * The Voluntary Action Dept in Schenectady is in need of many volunteers to assist with public and private agency programs. Please contact Mrs. Nancy Dunne, Director of the Voluntary , · Action Dept at 372-3395 from 9-5 daily. · . * * * * Pick up WRUC Desk blotters at Student activities. * * * * The Brothers and Little Sisters of Phi Sigma Kappa invite the Freshmen to a pizza party on Friday night at 8:00. Our house is behind the field house on Lenox Rd. We're looking forward to meeting you. * * * * The celebration of the Eucharist ts held on campus Sunday nights at 7:00 in Old ·Chapel. * * * * Any students interested in The Idol, Union's student literary magazine, please contact Nina Sichel at 346-9935, or Lynn Wintriss at 346-9428. Both contributors and production assistants are being sought. * * * * The Gatesmen will hold a brief ·but important meeting for all Gatesmen, new and old, on Tuesday, Oct, 8, at 4:39PM in Strauss Lounge. Plans for the Homecoming Reception arid other activities will be discussed. Gatesmen should also stop by the Admissions Office to keep up with what's happening. * * * * Custom printing of any design on tee-shirts. sweat shirts, or other articles of clothing is available through a local firm offering reasonable rates. Interested students should contact Tony Romannazzi in 113 South. * * * * Those in the class of '77 who paid for their yearbooks last year may pick them up on Thursday. Oct. 3 at the yearbook office (Carnegie 3rd Floor) between 1:30 and 4. Please bring your i.d. The remaining yearbooks will then be given out on a first come-first serve basis on Friday and Monday afternoons between I :30 and 4. Supply is limited. Those freshmen who wish to insure themselves a book for next year- see Mrs. Marra in the Student Activities office as soon as possible. The subscription price is $10.00. * * * * All interested people are invited to an important organizational meeting of the Political Forum, Thursday, SS 115-4:30 P.M. * * * * Any students who have been awarded Grants-in-aid and would be interested in working in the College Center as. receptionists contact Bobby Wilson in 206 South or Craig Carlson in the Admissions Office. * * * * Lost brown and white puppy part beagle with white face and paws. Lost on Seward Place. If found, call evenings 377-9714. Reward offered, * * * :j: Attention all instrumentalists! The first meeting of the U niori College Wind Ensemble will be held on Thursday October 3 at 7:30 PM in Arts 104. Everyone is welcome and all are urged to attend. Continued on Page 8 Summer Life at UniOn BY JACK PJTN:EY There is a persistent rumor that when the academic vear ends; the . grounds crew thro~s a tarpaulin . over .the entire campus, and the • faculty' retreats to. Saga's freezer for three months of cryogenic • hibernation. Not so. Investigation . reveals that a few ac;:tivitie~; do go : on at Union d-uring the summer. First of all, the college maintains a fairly ex~ensive summer school program during ·June and July. Most departments offer at least one or two courses .for either graduate or undergraduate credit. This year, the summer school drew 535 stude.nts, mainly from tht; Schenectady area. Thoug.h the total wotk load of · the summer courses is not as great as that of their regular-year counterparts, it is much more inte.nsive. Classes meet in three- hour sessions twice a week for six weeks. Since most of the students also have fuH-time .employment, they find the program to be a qpnsiderable strain, Summer sun and· painting mak!e~--. a relaxing combination for Jackson'~· Garden sitter. l n addition to teach~ng $Umtner · courses, many faculty members research and write paperi, for P,u blication. This year for instance, Po.J'itical Science professors Fred Hartwig and Charles Tidmarch collaborated on a paper entitled \Children and Political Reality: Changing Images of the President,\ Jor \ delivery at the convention of the Southern Political Seience Association in November. Others use the time to travel or catth up with the latest developments in their respective fields, Some Union students nemain in Schenectady for the entire vacation, living either in fraternity houses or local apartments, This past summer, several students · helped finish the task of moving books to the new section of the Schaffer Library. · The staff keeps busy, too. Maintenance workers make repairs'and improvements on the buildings, such as stuccoing· the 'outer walls of the Humanities and AlliaRce's First Me,etinl f'imtinued from Page 1 were described as being carried out by the four standing committees: R ecru itm en.t, Newspaper (Perspective), Social and information Center. A new standing committee, the · Arts Committee, has the charge of transforming Hickok into a true Cultural Center. Robert Davis Wa.J> selected to head that cornmittee at the end of last year. Film Preview The film Committee has announced the fall film schedule, starting off with \Bob and Carol, and Ted atld Alice\ this weekend. Other selections this fall include \The French Conne'ction,\ \Five Easy Pieces,\ .. Paper M0on,\ and Woody Allen's hilarious \Everything You Always Wanted to Know About Sex.\ New this term will be 25 cent Tuesday night movies, showing such old favorites as \Night at the Opera,\ \Mr. Smith Goes to .Washington,\ and a special Halloween program, \Spirits of the Dead.'' According to Liz Pava, a conimittee member, Tuesday night movies will only continue in future terms if student patronage is \:orthcoming. Films will be shown at 8 and 10 p.m. in SS Ql6. Subsidized by the Student Tax Committee, 1111. Saturday and Sunday night movies will be 50 cents ,j n SS 0 16. Showings are at 7, 9, and II p.m., except when announced othe.rwlse. All members of the campus . commUnity and their guests are invited. Film Committee members,. Matt Brief, Bernard Care~. Jay Heck, Liz Pava and Carey Siegttl welcome any coinm ents~ suggestions or complaints regarding the film selections. · Fdlrs First Films O~Jtober 5-6: Bob and Carol and Ted and Alice . October 8: Cool Hand Luke O.;tober 12-13: Executive Action October 15: What's Up tiger Uly? Lois Timms is in charge of the ·Information Center, and Isidra Person was elected as the chairman/editor of the Newspaper committee. The chairmen ·of the remamrng committees will be determined in future committee meetings. After all other business was considered, there ensued a debate concerning changing the name of the Aliial}ce. lt was suggested that a change of name would insure larger participation by all Third World students at Union. All \minority;' students are welcome to join the Alliance, imt it was pointed out that the name discouraged, for instance, Puerto Rican students from participating because the name suggested that only Black students could join. Part of the· debate centered around whether \Black\ was an adeql.late generic term for Third World students. It was agreed that a committee would be formed to discuss the problem and present a solution to the next Alliance. meeting. After the meeting, Dean Hill said that a name change would be a progressive step towards building Third World unity in this country. He pointed out that Black students organizations do not unite with other \minority:• , students, as a rUle, when the other minorities are so small a part of the campus, as they are at Union. tevrs · DaYe'~ Ateftl Shop , SSUlteSt .. ·(ck\WIIIO$ .... ) FOR LIQUOR AND WINE Try · Jake tipste!n's 464 State Street FR4·1888 Social Sciences · buildings, The library and th~ bookstore remain open throaghout the season for tbe convenience of the faculty, the summer students and the local residents .. Various offices, !)tu;h as H ~using and Financiaf Aid, operate at peak capacity during this period. Several. weddings were performed this summer in Jackson's Gardens and Memorial Chapet There were however, n.o funerals, bat mitzvahs or 'circumcisiolJs, ('ontinueCI from Page 3 the students and it is not fair' to them to have to knock themselves oilt due to the lack of concern of a few. But Ms.· Kilgus stated that Maintenance saw the dorms -r'ti better shape last year than in previous years. ~~God knows, Itllike to h;elp,, b t \ u ••• , But what? Do you win settle for that? If you cm't (lo thing-s alone. join wi-tb oth<Ts at your iocal svJ1:1goguc or t h ur< h. .Exam]>!c:' i .; M 011 tan a, Oil\! congregation wasdisturbe(l lJy ~e lack o£ adeq1.1a tc ho1,1sing for senior citizcm, :Because of their coi1cern, today tltere is a new non· . ·profit home for them. Tlte Godweworship expects us to hell> our neighbors, Stal't treating your brothers and sisters .like brothers and sisters. .(~!~,.2ll/,~J fl. Pub'..:::SenlooocJ ~s Nb~t,.. a· Tho Advert&ngCouriCII ~ ACE CARDs,· & ·GIFTS 175 Jay Street (off State) You'll Love Our J.mage, Gor.don Fraser & Paw Print Cards. Come See! f .,nrilC J when <:alne. was Secoli.( ce.rtific much certific never I in ·the didn't .tlntil.l! Aug when My f1 pack in asking, is sayi: to 'lea know. wornet office. might for th~ answer promis an ins (Don't Finally Day is Only yet. I Septerr nut of if they What All m~ them) rooms, word f \paran and, su of the ' time, I The drizzly, trying t from · roomn rememl task to Sun-c Nothin. for son F ONC has be four c< Traveli All g eligible nation progra1 experie FeHow5 each ( student intende student the . st conceiv Unio consistc or thre receivit interest~ a form stating applica• Fellows detaile; pro gran if the F€ This than fi pages .

Page 4 CONCORDIENSIS, Wednesday, October 2, 1974 Blither All persons interested in club sports must have physical exams. Those interested in these sports, such as rugby, skiing aHd sailing sl1nuld ~:on tact Mrs. Marra in Student Acti\ itics to make necessar) arrangements. * * * * Hruce Sostek and Geoff Taylor, student representatives to the Board of Trustees. wil:l he meeting at 10 P.M. each Thursday at Strauss Lounge in the College Center beginning Oct. lOth. Thev will be releasing a bulletin soon after the board meeting this weekend informing students what decisions were made and what issues will he coming up in future meetings. Students throughout the year are asked to look at Concordy for further developments from the Board of Trustees and voice their opinions to theirr repre~entatives. * * * * Attention For all registered voters of Nassau County, If you have not already filed an app,lication for an absentee ballot you may get one from Nadine A. Foster, Fox Hall, Rm. 356. * * * * Attention Photography Buffs: There will be an important meeting for all people interested in taking pictures and; or doing darkroom work for Concordiensis and the Union Book on Friday at 2:00. If you can't attend, please leave a note in the Concordy mailbox at Student Activities. The meeting will be in the Union Book room on the 4th floor Carnegie (the Student Center). * * * * Freshmen, sophomores, juniors, and seniors- Thursday night at 7:30, the Union Book, Union College's yearbook is having a short organizational meeting. We're in need of a working stan for photography. darkroom experience, typing, proofreading, and layout. No experience necessary. Our meeting place: Carnegie Hall. 3rd Floor. Union Book office. * * * * RA's and Fraternity presidents please contact Lynn Sutton (212 Fox-370-6635) concerning the amount of Union's Week you would like delivered weekly. * * * * The Voluntary Action Dept in Schenectady is in need of many volunteers to assist with public and private agency programs. Please contact Mrs. Nancy Dunne, Director of the Voluntary Action Dept at 372-3395 from 9-5 daily. * * * * Pick up WRUC Desk blotters at Student activities. * * * * The Brothers and Little Sisters of Phi Sigma Kappa invite the Freshmen to a pizza party on Friday night at R:OO. Our house is behind the field house on Lenox Rd. We're looking forward to meeting you. * * * * The celebration of the Eucharist Is held on campus Sunday nights at 7:00 in Old Chapel. * * * * Any students interested in The Idol, Union's student literary magazine. please contact Nina Sichel at 346-9935, or Lynn Wintriss at 346-942!1. Both contributors and production assistants are being sought. * * * * The Gatesmen will hold a brief but important meeting for all Gatesmen. new and old, on Tuesday. Oct. S, at 4:30 PM in Strauss Lounge. Plans for the Homecoming Reception and other activities will be discussed. Gatesmen should also stop by the Admissions Office to keep up with what's happening. * * * * Custom printing of any design on tee-shirts. sweat shirts, or other articles of clothing is available through a local firm offering reasonable rates. Interested students should contact Tony Romannani in 113 South. * * * * Those in the class of '77 who paid for their yearbooks last year may pick them up on Thursday, Oct. 3 at the yearbook office (Carnegie 3rd Floor) between I :30 and 4. Please bring your i.d. I he remaining yearbooks will then be given out on a first come-first serve basis on f-riday and Monday afternoons between I :30 and 4. Supply is limited. Those freshmen who wish to insure themselves a book lor next year- see Mrs. Marra in the Student Activities office as soon as possible. The subscription price is $10.00. * * * * All interested people are invited to an important organizational meeting oi the Political Forum. Thursday. SS 115-4:30 P.M. * * * * Any students who have been awarded Grants-in-aid and would he interested in working in the College Center as receptionists contact Bobby Wilson in 206 South or Craig Carlson in the Admissions Oil ice. * * * * Lost brown and white puppy part beagle with white face and paws. Lost on Seward Place. If found, call evenings 377-9714. Reward olfered. * * * * Attention all instrumentalists! The first meeting of the Union College Wind Ensemble will be held on Thursday October 3 at 7:30 PM in Arts 104. Everyone is welcome and all are urged to attend. Continued on Page 8 Summer :Life at Union BY JACK PITNEY There is a persistent rumor that when the academic year ends, the grounds crew throws a taq;>a ulin over the entire campus, and the faculty retreats to Saga's freezer for three months of cryogenic hibernation .. Not so. Investigation reveals that a few activities do go on at Union during the summer. First of air!, the college maintains a fairly extensive summer school program during June and July. Most departments offer at least one or two courses lor either graduate or undergraduate credit. This year, the summer school drew 535 students, mainly from the Schenectady a·rea. Though the total work load <>f the summer courses is not as great as that of their regular-year counterparts, it is much more intensive. Classes meet in three- hour sessions twice a week for six weeks. Since most of the students also have full-time employment, they find the program to be a considerable strain. Summer sun and painting mak£• a relaxing combination for Jackson's Garden sitter. In addition to teaching summer courses, many faculty members research and write papers f<>r publication. This year fcH instance, Political Science professors Fred Hartwig and Charles Tidmarch collaborated on a paper entitled \Children and Political Reality: Changing· Images of the President,\ Cor, delivery at the convention of th.e Sot:lthern Political Science Association in November. Others Hse the time to travel or catch up with the latest developments in their ~es pective fields. Some Union studer:~ts remain in Schenectady for the entire vacation, living either in fraternity houses or local apartments. This past summer, several students helped finish the task of moving books to the new section of the Schaffer Library. The staff keeps busy, too. Maintenance workers make repairs and improvements on the lluildings, sud! as stuccoing the outer walls of the Humanities and Alliance's First Meeting Continued from l'age I were described as being carried out by the four standir1g committees: R ecrui tm ent, Newspaper (Perspective), Social and Information Center. A neVI standing committee, the Arts Committee, has the charge of transforming Hickok into a true Cultural Center. Robert Davis was selected to head that committee at the end of last year. Film Preview Ihe film Committee has announced the fall film schedule, starting off with \Bob and Cam!, and led and Alice\ this weekend. Other selections this fall include \'The French Conne'ction,\ \Five Easy Pieces,\ \Paper Moon,\ and Woody Allen's hilarious \Everything You Always Wanted to Know About Sex.\ New this term will be 25 cent ruesday night movies, showir1g such old favorites as \Night at tfle Opera,\ \Mr. Smith Goes to Washington,\ and a special Halloween program, \Spirits of the Dead.\ According to Liz Pava. a committee member, Tuesday night movies will only continue in future terms if student patronage is forthcoming. Films will ~e shown at Hand 10 p.m. in SS 016. Subsidized by the Student lax Committee, all Saturday and Sunday night movies will be 50 cents in SS 016. Showings are at 7, 'J, and II p.m., except when annotmced otherwise. AJl members of the campus community and their guests are invited. 1-ihn Committee members, Matt Brief. Bernard Carey, Jay Heck, Liz Pava and Carey Siegel welcome any comments, suggestions or complaints regarding the film selections. · Fall's First l'ilms October 5-6: Bob and Carol and Ted and Alice October 8: Cool Hand Luke Ot::tober 12-13: Executive Action October 15: What's lip Tiger Lily? Lois Timms is in charge of the Information Center, and Isidra Person was elected as the chairman' editor of the Newspaper committee. The chairmen of the remammg committees will be determined in future committee meetings. After a 11 other business was considered, there ensued a debate concerning changing the name of the Alliance. It was suggested that a change of name would insure larger participation by all Third World students at Union. All \minority\ students are welcome to join the Alliance, but it was rwinted out that the name discouraged, for instance, Puerto Rican students from participating hecause the name suggested that only Black students could join. !>art of the· debate centered around whether \Black\ was an adequate generic term for Third World students. It was agreed that a committee would be lormed to discuss the problem and present a solution to the next A Ilia nee meeting. After the meeting, Dean Hill said that a name change would be a progressive step towards huildingThird World unity in this country. He pointed out that Black students organilations do not unite with other \minority\ students, as a rule, when the other 1ninorities are so small a part of the campus, as they are at Union. _:----. tev·rs lh-we's MeliS S11op 83 State St. ,'(dGwatCiJllliiA • ) FOR LIQUOR AND WINE Try Jake Lipstein's 464 State Street J FR4-1888 Social Science-s buildings. The librarv and the bookstore remain open· throughout the season for tl1e convenience of the faculty, the sl'!mmer students and the local residents. Various offices, su<;h as Housing and Financial Aid, operate at peak capacity during this period. Several weddings were performed this summer in Jackson's Gardens and Memorial Chapel. There were however, no funerals, bar mitzvahs or circumcisions. Housing Continued from Page 3 the students and it is not fair to them to have to knock themselves out due to the lack of concern of a few. But Ms. Kilgus stated that Maintenance saw the dorms In better shape last year than in previOus years. ~~God knows, 1\llike to help, but ••• \ But what? Do vou rca ink C witt' settle for that? If you lan\t do thing., ;oloue. join with ollll'l\ .It \Our lol .tl \'uagogm· or l hun h. l·:\;unplt-: iu \loiJian.l. one con~regatiOII was disturbed by {'lle lack of adequatc housing- for senior dti1ens. Because of their concern, todav there is a IICW non· . profi't home for them. The God we wonhip experts us to help our ndghbors. Start treating your brothers and sisters like brothers and sisters. ~:;:;~~~~.\': J • \'\' \'~'\\ ~ '\''• \\'\\\'' ~'f.~ 11 The 1\ttvertoS\\IQ COu<\'( •' (.01.11(1 . . l8VI.:S. ACE CARDS & GIFTS 175 Jay Street (off State) You'll Love Our Image, Gordon Fraser & Paw Print Cards. Come See! - . ... 1'111 :r~~j \llillL' r \hen came. l \\as Second certific: much ~.:ertific: never J; in the didn't until Ia Augt when I My fr packin! asking. is sayi~ to lea\ know. worriec office. might I lor the answer prom is( an inst (Don't 1--inally, Day is Only yet. E Septem out of 1 if they 1 What i All my them) rooms, word f< \'paranc and, su of the c time, I the ~ drizzly, trying n I rom · roomm rememl: task to< Sund \othin! lor sorr ONC has he· four ca Travelir All gr eligible. nation:: prograr experier Fellows each ( 1 students intendec students the st1 conceive Unior consiste or thre< recei vin intereste a form: stating applican f-ellows! detailec program il the Fe This l than fi· pages. 7: NO lJ WJ

First Impressions By Dan Rosenbaum. first realized Union was Mlfile .p'lucc out ot the ordinary when the letter of acceptance calne. First, I was accepted. That was extraordinary in itself. Second, it wasn't a letter, but a ce.rtificate.l t-only occurreq to me much l·Ater · that one .gets certificates from places that he never hears from again. This was in the latter part of Man:h, I didn't hear from Union again .until Jiitet. Much later. Augu~t. My employer is asking when I'll be lea:ving for school. My friends, who are by now packing and leaving, are alsp asking. Almost everyone I know is saying \Aren't you ever going to 'leave?'' 1 tell them l don't know. By now, I'm getting fairly worried, so I .called the Registrar's office. If I didn't know better, I m.ight have thought I was calling for the White House Tapes! No answer was forthcoming, only a promise that \I would hear,\ and an instruction not to call back. (Don't Call Us, We'll Call You?'!) Finally, I got a letter. The Big Day is September 21. Only one problem. No housing yet. By the first week in September I was almost jumping o.ut of my skin with worry. What · if they don't have a room for·me? What if I get awful roommates? All my Union friends (both of them) had· heard about their rooms, why hadn't l? There's a word for the state I was in. It's \paranoid.\ At last l got word, and, sure enough, I wasn't in any of the dorms l requested. By this time, I wasn't surprised_ The Saturday I came up was a drizzly, dreary day. I unpacked, trying my best to keep my parents from underfoot, met my ·roommates, and tried to remember their names. This last task took a few days. Sunday was a settling-in day. Nothing \inuch doing, just waiting f~r something to happen. Watson Fellowships ONCE again, Union College has been invited to nominate four candidates for the Watson Traveling Fellowship Program. All graduating seniors are eligible, regardless of sex, race, nationality, undergraduate programs, previo.us foreign experience, or career plans. The Fellowships are worth $7,000 each (or $9,500 for married students) and are generally intended to help newly-graduated students spend a year abroad in the - study of almost any conceivable topic. Union's applicants have been consistently successful, with two or three of the four -nominees recetvmg Fellowships. Any interested senior should prepare a formal letter of application, stating the reasons that the applicant · is interested in a Fellowship, together with a fairly detailed statement of the program which will be followed if the Fellowship is awarded. This letter should be no longer than five double-spaced typed pages. 721 ALT AMON:r AVE. NO DELIVERY CHARGE · WITH TWO PIZZAS WJ!Di:UVIUI 1JNTIL MIDNIGHT' Cai374-\H Monday. Yes. Well, it would be safe to say tha·t en Monday, ali hell broke loose; The first taste of Academic Union (as. oppesed to Bureaucratic Union). I loved it. Major's meetings, club meetings (maybe 1 went to too many of these), advisor's meetings, etc., dC., and so on, and so on, and so on. T1,1esday brought registration, with aU attendant waiting, and program changing, and catalog reading, and crying and yelling and screaming. (Actually, these last ·three · 1 o-nly wanted to do, although I came close a few times). The three courses I had picked out gave me a fantastic schedule. By this time, it should haTd'ly be necessary for me to say that 1 didn't get them, chiefly because they were only open to upperclassmen. The lawsuit is pending. Mac~ Duke; Teen Angle, Bozzo, Sandy, Bo and Bill rockin' 'n' rollin' at Memorial Chapel last Friday night. The Aces Flame Again So what does it all come to? Well, all this has turned me from a milk-cheeked, innoc.ent incoming Freshman, armed only with high ideas; into a grizzled, hard-nosed matricu-lated F r e s h m a n , · v e t-e r a n of ,innumerable ·campaigns. They ca-n't stop us now!! by BLAIR REISCHER l 'hct Arthur and the 1-lami,ng Act:s scnred what is probably a lirst in the history ol Union College. I hey started their concert l.rst J- riday n ig.Ju hy ridi tig a motorcycle down the center aisle ol Memorial Chapel. .1 he first 'SCI started ol L with thrt:c oldies Get a Job, Tell Laura l 'Love Her, and I Wonder Why I Love- You Ljke I Do. ·1 hesc numbers lorm tihc nucleus ol the Aces· rcpcrtoin. and the presentation was much more polished. that it was at the Ace\ conc.:rt ·last spring. 'I he son)! about the l\asl1 and the Cadillac (which had h~cn clone hclore. hut lacklustcrly)~ picked up a new spark when combined with Jon l.e~in's im prm. iscd Russian l·ol k dance upstage. I he hit ol the e\cning v.as Jon ... 1 he Duke ot Hushing\ le\ in's rendition ol Big John, ll new part ol the repertoire. Lcvm narrated this epic !rom a podium sl't up on a dark stage. usmg a flashlight to gesticulate at the packed house. ·1 he coordination ol the group and the lluidity with which they worked was impressive. I he Aces ha\e become an ensemble in the lullc!>.t sense ol the word lnr the lirst time. ·1 his I act Wa!>. comp lementcd by l>Omc impro\ised pantomime du'r'mg and hctwccn the songs which consistently d rcw roan. ol laughter lrorn the crowd. Here almin, \Duke\ LcHn was most notable. because he managed to create :-;orne \cry orig1naJ. niomcnh wit·hout actua llv upstagi.n)! the lead smgers. · O:wrall. the 1-laming Aces achie\ed what they had not been ahh: to do bctore. and that was to make a \cry limited repertoire (which is due to the tact that thev don't usc in~trumcnta~l accompaniment) intercstmg and cnjo~·ablc without hm.ing to rc~ort to cxccssi\ c vulgarit}. Orientation Marches On Suffering Student Staggers Upstairs In South Freshman Orientation Week has come and gone, but ac~ording to' the committ~c chairpcoptc' it will continue on throu~J-h)ut the year. ., he orga.nin!tion ol m~:r 540 lreshmcn and 100 tran~lcrs as \\ell as the nearly liS Orientation Ad\ iM,rs and committee people, YO Student Ad\-isors, 40 R.A.'s. and a lar,!!C contingcri>l laculty and administration proceeded lair!) succcssl.ully thr ughout the \cck. I he Orientation Committee at this 'school is operated as a t \ oluiltary ~tudcnt orga nrt.ation as opp<lSL'd to Jiaid stall Who nrganil'e orientation at many ~chools. I his method ha~ the \ aluc <)I integrating a large ~roup ol pcc)p!c into a coopcrati\c dlort and hcHcr meeting the need~ ol incoming studcnh due t<' th~ real care hy tht: comnuttcc lor seeing that this nc\1 group i~ taken citre ol. ·1 he con1mittec and all nthers Ill\ oh ed organucd c\-cnt!l w that people would get !letter ac4uainted with Union and v.ith em:h other. Parties that runged 1-rom watermcllon ·to M.tuare dancing. barhc4ues. mo\.ie;. panel discussions. lreshman play. a concert, speakers and a continuou!'. barrage ol C\enb that ·got lJ nion college to get her. ·1 he committee thought <11 ne-v. ideas to get the freshmen Ill all part!'. ol campus. Open houses and freshman registration was held in Carnegie. the nc-v. St udent Center. At the dorm parties, hccr ran out ·on lower campus to lmcc the people to hop up to Edwards Hou~c \here the hccr \'as I lowing. Getting faculty comduwted Into lhc OrientatiOn Program -v.as another innovative and constructi\c ide<! to get studcnh and their prolessors to meet one another. Various prolc~s<H!I Wl'rc asked to come to the meals and cat with the I rcshmei1. I hei'C wa~ In addition, a letter of recommendation should be obtained from at least one member of the Faculty who knows the applicant and the applicant's work. These documents should be delivered to Pwfessor Charles Swartz in room N320 of the Science- Engineering Cente.r. More detailed instructions are available from Professor Swartz, or from the Physics Department Secretary (Room N308 of the S- E Center). . Tl-IE DEADLINE FOR ALL APPLICATIONS AND Foreign Study Spree LETTERS OF RECOMMENDATION MONDAY. OCT. 14. Levfs Dave's Mens Shop 45l.State St.- ( o~t9WA Scbe.aectady) IS ( ·ontinued from Page I not just language maJors. Professor Warde said that a common misconception among Union students is that,. to be eligible for a Term Abroad Program; a student has to have extensive knowledge of a language. \Only an intermediate know ledge ( 130 level or bettet) .of the language is necessary to he eligable for the Terrn Abroad Programs in France, Germany, alld Spain,\ stated Warde, \and Moffett's Liquor Store 1505 VanVranken Aye. Scheneetady, New York 12308 -· .ADD TO .YOUR EDUCATION- - L/:.'ARN MORE ABOUT:WINES- Join Our W!Nt: TAST/.VCi CI.UB . No Admissions CharKe- NtP R(•quitm1ent.l Ea~h ~bnth we scl~<:l a dillcrcnt v. inc ln he h:11cd. ·r here j, a card d~·,~r;h•ng the wtnc m !!rcat dcuul oo )ou ~111\ learn ahum it. On I hi>. card thcrc-i' a pictlli't· of the label ~o Y<IU can rcmcmhcr the \\in~ 111 the 1 u11l.rc to imprc'' 1 nm· dut~ when ~:ou dino 0111 or ~i!flpl) want ll!!il<)d llullk. nl ~'mi:. ·. only an elementary knowledge ( 110 level or better) Is necessary to be eligible for the trips to Israel and Italy.\ Professor Warde went on to explain that a Term A broad Program is now being planned for England, where there would be no language requirement. These Terms Abroad are designed by Union College to fit in with an entire college year. A Term Abroad, for example, is the same duration as a semester at Union. The student that participates in a Term Abroad Program is back on campus in Plenty of time to start the next semester's courses. The costs of spending ·a Term Abroad and a term at Union are comparable. There ls no problem with transfer of credits, because a student that studies a· term abroad remains fully matriculated at Union. When a student participates in a Term Abroad Program:, he takes three courses while studying in that foreign country. These of a abo a \Meet the l'role~sor:,\ e\ening Ill \\ hH.:h HHIOUS prolc~sors came to !>peak inlornwll~· 1<1 · students about t hcmsclves. I he view expressed b;,. Da\l' Heilbcrg and Sue Brecher Wal> that Oricntatwn should continue throughout the year. Last Spring term, they llrgani;cd the lcsti\al -v.cekcnd ol outdoor concert!'. and parties. and hope the same evcnb \\ill take place. I he lreshmcn play. in \\ hich only I re~hmen can participate, w.ill bring a large. !,!roup ol people together lor ll long time. Picnics lm the rcumon ol orientation group~ arc hemg planned. 1-inally. the Onentatlon Committe~: helped lind the Caharct an organi;ation thut wIll hring I ilc to Union throu!!hout the vcar. .!.his year's <irganllatjon wa~ a ~ucccs!'.. I he in\ olvcment ol ~ludents that it generated, the coopcratinn that took place. und the lriendship that c\ol\ed will last long past tnt! hrst week ol ~chool. l!lii!15555!!!!Jir:l that includes, along with a study of the language of the country, a study of that country's civilization, and Comp. Ed. 019, a \Junior Project'\ This term there are forty-five Union students studying at Remmes, France, and another thirty are studying in Florence, Italy. ··An courses are not offered all semesters,\ explained Professor Warde, who urges all interested students to contact him. FERRo·s PHARMACY CSTUDENT DISCOUNT' . 575 Nett St. 37'7-1511 34f..t3lt

PageS First Impressions By Dan Rosenbaum ti,rst reaJ.i1ed Union was \llillL' pi<ICL' out ol the ordinary v. hen the letter of acceptance came. First, I was accepted. That v.as extraordinary in itself. Second, it wasn't a letter, bl:lt a certificate. It only occurred to me much later that one gets certificates from places that he uever hears from again. This was in the latter part of March. I didn't hear from Union again until later. Much later. August. My employer is asking when I'll be leaving for school. My friends, who are by now packiRg and leaviAg, are also asking. Almost everyone I know is saying \Aren't you ever going to leave?\ I tell them I don't know. By now, I'm getting fairly worried, so I called the Registrar's office. If I didn't know better, I might have thought I was calling lor the White House Tapes! No answer was forthcoming, only a promise that \I would hear,\ and an instruction not to call back. (Don't Call Us, W~:'ll Call You??) 1-inally, I got a letter. The Big Day is September 21. Only one problem. No housing yet. By the first week in September I was almost jumping o.ut of my skin with worry. What if they don't have a room for me? What if I get awful roommates? All my Union friends (both of them) had heard about their rooms, why hadn't I? There's a word for the state I was in. It's \paranoid.\ At last I got word, and, sure enough, I wasn't in any of the dorms I requested. By this time, I wasn't surprised. !he Saturday I came up was a drizzly, dreary day. I unpacked, trying my best to keep my parents I rom underfoot, met my ·roommates, and tried to remember their names. This last task took a few days. Sunday was a settling-in day. \othing much doing, just waiting lor something to happen. Watson Fellowships ONCE again. Union College has been invited to nominate four candidates lor the Watson Traveling Fellowship Program. All graduating seniors are eligible. regardless of sex, race. nationality. undergraduate programs, previous foreign experience, or career plans. The Fellowships are worth $7.000 each (or $9,500 for married students) and are generally intended to help newly-graduated students spend a year abroad in the study of almost any conceivable topic. Union's applicants have been consistently successful. with two or three of the four nominees recervmg Fellowships. Any interested senior should prepare a formal letter of application, stating the reasons that the applicant is interested in a Fellowship. together with a fairly detailed statement of the program which will be followed if the Fellowship is awarded. This letter should be no longer than five double-spaced typed pages. 721 ALTAMONT AVE. NO DELIVERY CHARGE WITH TWO PIZZAS WE DELI¥1KiC UNTIL MIDNIGHT CaD 374-5600 \1onday. Ye~. WelL it wmlld be ;.afe to say that on Monday, aN hell broke loose. H1e first taste of Academic Union (as opposed to Bureaucratic UnioN). I loved it. Major's m:eetiR,gs, club rneetings (maybe I went to too many of those), advisor's meetings, etc., etc., and so on, and so on, and so on. I uesday brought registratior;J, with all attendant waiting, and program changing, and catalog reading, and crying and yelling and screaming. (Actually, these last three I only wanted to do, althowgh I came close a few times). The three courses I had picked out gave me a fantastic schedule. By this time, it should I~Jardly be necessary for me to say that I didn't get them, chiefly because they were only open to upperclassmen. The lawsuit is pending. Mac, Duke, Teen Angle, Bozzo, Sandy, Bo and Bill rockin' 'n' rollin' at Memorial Chapel last Friday night. The Aces Flame Again So what does it all come to? Well, all this has turned me from a milk-cheeked, innocent incoming Freshman, armed only with high ideas; into a grizzled, hard-nosed matriculated f-reshman, veteran of innumerable campaigns. They can't stop us now!! by BLAIR REISCHER l'ht:t Anhur and the J--lam1nj.! Ace-. >cored \-\hat I\ prohahl; a liP·! 111 tht: h1:-.tor) ol [,nwn Collt:gt:. lhl.'y :-.tarted the1r Ctllll't:rt la~t 1-rida) lll!!lll h\ no111g a motorc~ck doll.n tht: CL'lllcr al\le ol Memonal Chapd the I1N :-.et qartt:d oil ll.lth t lm:e nldie\ Get a Job, Tell Laura I Love Her, and I Wonder Why I Love You Like I Do. I ht:\t: numhcr-. lorm tht: nucku:-. ot tht: Ace~· repertoire. and the prc:-.entation \-\a:-. much more pol!.-.hcd that 1! wa' at the Act:\ concert 1:1\l \prin!!. I ht: \Oil!! ahout the i\a~h and the Cac..hllac (w hJCh had been done hdort:. hut lacklu~terl~ ). p1cked up a ne\-\ ~park v. hen comhlliled \'.lth .Jon l.t:\ln·, lmprmJsL·d Ru;,~tan lolk Jant:t: up,ta!!C. I he hn ol tht: t:\t:nln!! \\a' Jon \I he Duke ol J-Ju~hin!!'' lt:\in\ rcndnwn ol Big John. a nc\-\ part ol tht: rt:pntoire. l.t:\ 111 narrated thi, l.'PIL' trom a podnun ~L'l up on a dark ~tage. u~tn!! H lla~hli!!ht to ~t:Wculatt: at tht: packt:d how,c. I ht: coordination ol the woup and the tluidlty With v.h1ch the~ \-lorked \-\a~ lmpn::-.:-.1\t.:. I hl.· A~c~ h:n c hecomt: an t:mcmhk 111 the lulk-.t 'L'me ol the '\ ord I or the 111-.1 lime. !hi~ tact \\41:-. complemented h1 ,omc 1m pro\ i;,eJ pantom1mL· dt~'nng and ht:t\\t:t:n tht: -.on!!~ v.h1ch con'l'tt:nt!) d rc\-\ roar-. ol l<Ju_L!htl'f !rom the cro\-\d. Her~: <t,l!aln, \Duke\ l.t:\m wa:-. mo:-.t not a hie. ht:ca li\C ht: mana!!t:d to cr~:ute ~llnlL' \ t:n ongmal nwmcnh '1.\ilhout actual!\ up;,tag1ng thL· IL'ad \lll!!t:r:-.. · (her<tll. the 1-lamm!! Act:\ ach 11.:1 ed \-1 hat the\ had not been able to do hdor~:: <md that wa:-. tn make a 1en 11m1h:d rept:rtolrt: (\\hJch '' dut: to the lact that thl.'\ don't u-,e ln>truml'nta.l at·companlmt:nt) mtcre-,tln!! and CillO~ able \\lthout ha1 lllj.! to rL·-,ort to t:.xt·e-.-,11 l' 1 ulgant~. Orientation Marches On Suffering Student Staggers Upstairs In South In addition. a letter of recommendation should be f-reshman Orientation W cek ha;, come and gone. hut according to the comrmttee ch;urpeopll· ll v. ill contmue on throughout the 1ear. I he organin1t1on ot o\ er 540 I rc.,hmen and 100 tran;,lt:i:-. a~ \\1..'11 a' the nearly 115 On~:ntatwn 1\thr~or-. and commlttl.'e pcopk. YO Student Atl\1:-.or~. 40 R.A.':-.. and a lar)!e cPntrngent..-<ll lanllt~ and adm1n1qratwn ( procct:dt:d le~Jrl! 'ucce..,\lull~ thrhu!!IHlut the 'A l . .'L' k. llw Onentat1on Committe~: at th1' \chool 1.., operated a:-. a 1 oluntar~ 't udent organ ita twn a:-. nrplN.'d to pa1d \Uti I \\ ho tlr,!!aBI/t: 'L' hook oncntat1on at many I hi\ method ha~ thL· 1 aim: ol l!Hegraung a lartte !!roup nl peorte 1!11\) a cootH:Jatl\t: cllurt and better mt:etmg tht: need-. nl mcommg ~tudcnb Jut: tn tht: r~:;tl cme h~ the <.:omm1ttce lllf 'L't:lll!! that thl\ n~:v. !!roup 1' taken cart: ol. I he comm!ltn· and all othl·r~ 1111 oiled or~an11t:d e\t:nb 'o that pt:opJc \\OUJd gt:t Odtcr acyu:unted \\Jth linton and \\lth each otht:r. l'mt1e~ that ranged !rom v.atermellon to ~4uare dancmg, hurhc\!Ut:.. mo\ln. pant:! 01\L'U..,:-.Hln:-.. lrt::-.hmun pta}. a cnnrl.·rt. ~peakt:r' and a contJnLHHI'> barrage ol t:\t:nh that _L!ot l!n10n collegt: togethn. I he committee thought ol nev. ttka' to ).!Ct tht: lreshmen to all parh ol campu~. Open hou~e-. and lrc..,hman rq.!l\tratlon \\41:-. h~:ld 111 Carnt:g1c. the nel\ Student Center. At tht: dorm partie\, het:r ran out on hm t:r camru ... to Jon:c the pt:opk to hop up to l-.d\-\ard~ How-,e \-\ herL· t ht: het:r \'I' limo~ lnj.!. (it:ttlll)..! lactilt~ coord1natL'U 111i o the Onentat ton Prog1 :u11 wa' another mno\atl\C and con~tructi\e 1deu to .!!L'l ..,tudent-. a nd their prole~\or.., to met:! one anotht:r. \JanoU\ prok:-.:-.or' 'ALTC a'ked to come to the meal~ and L'<lt \-\ilh the lre..,hmt:n. I here v.m ohtaincd from at least one memher of the Faculty who knows the applicant and the applicant's work. These documents sho1:1ld be delivered to Professor Charles Swartz m room N310 of the Science- Engineering Center. More detailed instructions are available from Professor Swart7. or from the Physics Department Secretary (Room N308 of the S- E Center). THE DEADLINE FOR ALL APPLICATIONS AND Foreign Study Spree LETTERS OF RECOMMENDATION MONDAY OCT. 14. Dave's' Mens Shop 453 State St.- (o.t~Sc~) IS Continued from Page I not just language maJors. Professor Warde said that a common misconcepticn among Union students is that, to be eligible for a Term Abroad Program, a student has to have extensive knowledge of a language. \Only an intermediate knowledge ( 130 level or better) of the language is necessary to be eligable for the Term Abroad Programs in France, Germany, and Spain,\ stated Warde, \and Moffett's Liquor Store 1505 VanVranken Ave. Schenectady, New York 12308 -ADD TO YOUR EDUCATION- -LEARN MORE ABOUT WINES·- Join Our W/,\'E TASTI.\'GCI.UB No AdmiJsiom Charxe - .\'o Rt•cfuir('/11f:'nf.\ Each month 1\c \>elect a different 11inc to ht: IC\tt•d. I here 1' a canl <.lt·'<.:l ,hon!' the \.\inc in great detail ~o }nU c:an learn uhoutll 011 rh\ curd thcrc '\\ prtlun· ofth..: label~~~ }nu can remember !he l~int· on the turure t\ omprt'\ l~>lll' date \.\hen )ou dine l~t onimpl) wanl a pond hottle ol 1\ont·. · only an elementary knowledge ( 110 level or better) is necessarv to be eligible for the trips t~ Israel and Italy.\ Professor Warde went on to explain that a Term A broad Program is now being planned for England, where there would be no language requirement. I'hese Terms Abroad are designed by Union College to fit in with an entire college year. A Term Abroad, for example, is the same duration as a semester at Union. The student that part1crpatcs in a Term A broad Program is back on campus in plenty of time to start the next semester's courses. The costs of spending a Term Abroad and a term at Union are comparable. There is no problem with transfer of credits, because a student that studies a term abroad remains fully matriculated at Union. When a student participates in a Term A broad Program, he takes three courses while studying in that foreign country. These of a al'>o <I \Meet tht: l'rok..,,nl<. elt:lllng 111 \-lhlch laJwu-. prolc\\ll!., cam~: to 'PL·ak Jn!ormall\ to -.tudenh <tbout I he 1 1ev. ~..·.\rre:-.~cd h:- l>;n ~.: Hcilherg <lnd ~uc Hrecher 1\a:-. that Orientation 'hould contmuc throughout the ~car. I a\t ~pnng tL·r·m. they organ11ed the k-.tl\411 \h'l'kend ol outdoor conc~:rt.., and partiL''· and hope th~: :-.am~: L'\L'llh \-\ill take place. I Ill- lrc~hmt:n pia~. 111 1\ h1t:h only lrl.·,hm~:n can participate. \-\ill bnn!! a larg:c gmup ol penpk: to,!!ethcr lor a IPll,l! tmw. 1'1cnrc' lor the r~:umon tll oncntatwn !).roup:-. art: h~·mg planned. hnall~. tht: Orientation <. ·ommltlL'l.' hl'l ped tmd t hL' Caharct an ur)!anuatJon that l\11'1 hnng l1k to l mon throu!!hout the ~car. I hi' yL'ar\ llf!!an11atum \-\u.., a ~ucct:\. I ht: Ill\ ol\ ~:ment ol ~tudt:nh that 1! g:eneratt:d. the conp~:rat1on that too~ plact:. and the lrtt:nd..,hip that L'\ol\t:d IHII la't long pa\t the l1r..,t \-\eek ol 'dwol. l:J[ll 5555::1'1!1 that includes, along with a study of the language of the country, a study of that country's civilization, and Comp. Ed. 019, a \Junior Project\ This term there are forty-five llnion students studying at Rcmmcs, France. and another thirty are studying in 1-lon:nce. Italy. \All comses are not offered all semesters.\ explained Professor Warde, who urges all Interested students to contact him. FERRO'S PHARMACY -sTUDENT DISCO{JNTt . 575 Nott St. 377-1511 ~

Page6 CONCORDIENSIS, Wednesd~y, O\tober 1, 1974 rientation Sept. ·21-28 19.7_4 I j I I I. l •,. '

Pageo CONCORDIENSIS, Wednesday, October 2, 1974 ' ~ ·' rientation Sept. 21-28 1974

CONCORQIENSIS, Weclnesday, October Z, 1974 Page7

CONCORDIENSIS, We.tnesday, October 2, 1974 Page 7 .• I j ! 1 j .. ; ' i .. d ' ·j I 'l .. l i I l ' ( 'l ! i ' ., 'i i rientation

CONCORDlENSIS, Wedne_~day, 9(tober 2, 1974. BLITHER Continued fron~ Page 4 Tryouts for students interested in the ('A BARET wilt be held every Sunday at 4- PM in RM 108 Student Center. Sign up sheets on CABARET Boar<!. For further information c0ntact Jerry, Lee or Michael at 346-83-.70. * * * * Attention Bowlers The Dutch Classic Bowling League -of Union CoHege wil-l be bowling at the Bc.ulevard Bowl on Erie Boulevard every Tuesqay at 9 p.m. The seaso.o will open on Octob(!r 8th. Anyone interested please contact Mike Affinito at 346-9895. ~---- ~~----- ---·--- -·- .. ' * * * * All persons interested in working on Concordiensis in any capacity please mme to the Concordy office located on 3rd Floor Carnegie (Oct. 3) Thursday night at 7:30 P.M. Writers, artists, and people Who want to work on layout are needed. The meeting will be short. · Early Morning Hunger * * * * The first meeting of the Student-Faculty Bridge Club will be held on Tuesday, October 8, at 7:45 P.M. in the Hale House Upper Lounge. There will be three meetings per term at three week intervals. All bri<lge players on campus are welcome to attend. Any questions, please c::all Dave Gordon at 346-9895. * * * * Bomb Threats Continued fwm Page I . 6:00 A.M. With the help of Davidson RA's~ Fox house emptied out at the appointed time and had coffee and donuts at Hale House. A meeting t<J decide what was to be done Vias held at I :30 Tuesday afternoon with Dr. Bonner, Dear1 Smith, Provost Enteman, Bruce Downsborough, AI Reisch, Ihuce Sostek, and Kleinkauf. The FB1 is presently assisting the inve~>tigation and the Provost Dean Sm.ith and Dr. Bonner expres5ecl their intent to spend Tuesday night in AI Reisch's room to answer the phone. The school's policy has changed in that the caller will be told that the building will not be evacuated since everyone is ti:red of playing his game. Speaking from experience, Dr. Bonner feels that this strategy will serve as a deterrent for future bomb threats. All residents of Fox have been given several alternatives ·- either to sleep elsewhere, spend an undisturbed night in their bed or be awakened if and when a call comes through. Smith, Enteman· and Bonner have repeatedly· stated that they believe that the caller is just threatening the residents and no bombs exist. Extensive security exists in and ·.around the dorm. Debbie Kilgus. director of housing, has arra,nged for beds in other dorms for people who wish to leave Fox. Each per,son js making their own - decis'ion.. :·: · by ROB MONDSCHEIN fhe hour is 3 A.M. and Union is asleep. You lo0k around and Schenectady is asleep. It's been three long hours since the 'Skellar · has cJosed and your stomach cries out: \I wanf a pastrami on rye, hold the pickle; 1 want a taco; can't I please have some apple pie, or a muffin'!\ It's not like home where you can wake up, go to the refrigerator and get some pop tarts. So what can the modern American college youth do in Schenectady to satisfy his hungry frustration? Though he may think the lights. are out all over Schenectady, if he looks closer, -be may find that . some of the best eateries in America begin to get busy at 3:15 A.M. There seems to be a lot of ·business at these places, and it · may be due to the working shifts at the employer down the road: Generous ~lectric. _ .. This re.pmter's favorite place is . the Candyland Luncheonette, located on Mohawk Avenue in • Scotia. lfs about Y2 mile over the . ~cotia Bridge and three blocks (:oncordiensis wishes to commend the residents and RNs of Fox House for their continued good humor and cooperation throughout this trauma. ~Inauguration~ Distinguished speakers and guests are a part of events planed for Saturday Continued from Page 1 menu that is noi.'V hoped for. If this restaurant foa'mat becomes a reality, there would be- no admission ch~uge 1 but there probably would be a small minimum or cover charge. Cabaret depen.ds entirely on. student volunteers. Volunteers are needed for both performing and non-performing p ositions. Anyone interested in helping out by lending their talents, however great Oa' small, should get in touch With the people in the Cabaret (room ID8 Carn~gie). Thomas Neville Bonner, 51, will be inaugurated as the 15th President of Union College and 9th Chancellor of Union University in formal ceremonies Saturday. Oct. 5. Pr:incipa\l speakers at the morning ceremonies, beginning at 10. will be Bonner and Mrs. Mildred McAfee Horton, president emerita of Wellesley College and first commander of the Navy's Waves during World -War II. As part of the day ·long program, a group of nationally- prominent educators will meet in the afternoon to discuss the present status and prospects of Watch Out! It's Coming Nov. 14-15 FIVE R.OO..MS AVAILABLE FOR PARTIES ANb BANQUETS : ; Featuring Italian-American Cuisine moJ,er :lerro ~ le:JfauPanf Free Par I< in!) 1115 BARRETT STREET SCHENECTADY, N. Y. Open 7 DQ)fS a Week Tel. Dl 6-9554 or FR 7-2642 the independent, priva'tely- governed college in America. The panel discussion in Memorial Chapel is open to the public. Also included on the day's schedule· is a luncheon for guests at the inauguration. Speaking at the luncheon will be Dr. Ewald, B. Nyquist, President of the University of the State of New York and New York State Commissioner of Education. Presidents, deans, and delegates from more than 130 other colleges and universities and a dozen learned societies will take part in the .colorful morning ceremony, which is open to invited guests. SHOP ON JAY STREET For Your Mind Body Soul THE OPEN DOOR BOOK SHOP THE' COUNTRY KITCHEN THE OTHER SIDE OF.TODAY 1.35, 136, 137 Jay Street Open iues.-Sats. . .past the o.Id Scotia Diner. They open at 1:30 A.M. and close at 2:30 P.M. John and Tony work the counter and the booths. 1he juke box is playing and guys i;n the back are pla~lng pool The place is a ltmcheonette and they serve the whole shmear, from eggs and bacon, to muffins, to hash browns, to B.L.T.~s. to balogna, to tuna fish (need .I continue?). It's pretty cheap and those guys lay it on ya'. The sign outside reads: \Not fancy, just plain good.\ · A ttaditi()nal Union hangout for those with the munchies is the Crosstown Diner. It's located on BrandyWine Ave. just off State Street. Open all night, it may have become known due to its location diagonally across from a different kind of eatery, \The Bamboo Club.\ Built in the\ -architectuml style of a cramped railro!ld car, -the Crnsstowh is-also· good for most foods at a decent pric_t. You probably can meet some other Union insomniacs and some harmless derelicts (which in WRD :::JEFF many cases .m.ay be one and the· same). <Jeuing t~>ward the mote specific tastes~ there exist a few places that accommodate yot1r sleeping.patterns. Dunkin Donuts (a.k.a. \D1.mks\). is up State Street. Coffee, milk, soda, and of · course donuts and munchkins are sold to go -or to eat there. If you're craving for a taco, Jack-in-the-B()x is the place to head for. To get there, you go down U ni011 Street; then left on Erie Boulevar-d. Look for the umongous sign. I fs good, if that's what you wan.t. For those vrho don't care what they eat and don~t have a car, the· White Tower is the place. It's located on Nott and State Streets. -The onion rings are decent but the small amount they give you isn't worth the price. Try the pies; they are usually good. Oh no;·· many . will _say, where are the all night pizza parlors? They have not vet been found but if someone kll.ows of one, please write t_his paper! The only stor_e worth shopping at( Dave's Squire Shop Tues, Thurs 'til 9 .. DOWNTOWN SCHENECTADY 420- State Street ·--- . I

. CONC9RDIEN&IS 7 WedJtesday, October l, 1974 Page 9 ' ~--------------------~~~~~~~--~--------------------~ . . r , s. : . . s t . ' ' . . : . t . t ,•:. ·. . . . . \i .£ n .. u .. '\ . ; ' , \· ... . < . - ~(it's the truth, isn't it?) For the -best buys in North America, come see the friendly stereo people. We sell _only the finest stereo components. ... HI-FI & SOUND SYSTEMS SALES AND SERVICE 1599 Union St., ·_;Schenectady, N.Y. 12 309 (518) 3\46-5575 - ..... 1. SONY OF AMERICA 2. BONG-OLUFSEN 3. CERWIN-VEGA 4. INFINITY 5. SAE 6. SONY-SUPERS-COPE 7. SOUNDCRAFTSMAN 8. KOSS 9. JENSEN .10. TDK .' IIILVIE IDLECTRONICS We have an on - premises authorized ' Where Sound Systems Come Alive - . . Tom Silver service department. We fix-· anything and everything {excluding junk).

., Page 10 CONCORPlENSlS 9 Wednesday, October 2, 1:974 Lost letter Documents Union Win Over Harvard in _l8l5. This is the first in a series of articles abo11t the history and near-history of Union College. Time is the great destoyer of history and we hope to fill the gaps with revealing insights about \the way we were.\ Competition is the characteristic quality upon which intercollegiate relationships and honor is based'. The Cotton Bowl, the Orange Bowl are but two of the highlights of intercollegiate competition. It was through the endeavors, sometimes referred to as chicanery, of President f'liphalet Nott that Union College, the most prominent and prestigious coiiege in the nation feU from its pedestal in t'he late ninteenth century. Union's greatness of an era-gone-by spanned eight decades of academic in novation. Innovation was not menly contained to the academic discipline; Ramee's architectural design of the BY BILL TALIS which Union re.igned as king over rightful claim to the color. The Harvard, Yale and Dartmouth. controversy reached a climax Rowing was one of the most' when both schools were scheduled popular collegiate sports in the w compete in the Second mid\nineteenth century,. and a I ntercoHegiate Regatta at document uncovered last year in a Saratoga S'prings in early 1875. fraternity \goat room;'' written by r he Co 1-b ath do cum en t Kappa Alpha Jerimi!lh Colbath, revealed that the color conflict Class of 1878, unfolded an epic was settled pr.ivately with a story of a hitter and long-lasting \grudge match\ between the two dispute between Union and schools on the Charles River, Harvard over the choice of colGrs, from Medway to Cambridge, a conflict which would be Mass. Colbath noted that Union resolved honorably before the handily beat Harvard by a full Intercollegiate Regatta at ·4 uarter-mile, in a six hour Saratoga Springs in 1875. 1narathan. But for reasons stili Mr. Colbath's story nriknown, Union did not retain meticulously depicts the conflict. . the magenta, which was rightfully \At Union College, on the hers: . Mohawk at Schenectady,\ -Prior to the discovery of the Colbath wrote, \boating started Colbath document. the New York with 1ihe Kap.pa Alpha fraternity rimes of June 5, 1876 had . in 1858. In the early 1850's, Union provided the only documented· adopted the dee.p purple color of explanation of how both schools magenta as the official colors for came to choose their present athletic teams. At about the same colors for the Regatta . at • time, a Boston seamstress, who Saratoga: was commissioned to tailor \ ... The Garnet flag is to float · campus, the first institution to offer financial aid (and as some .now claim, the first to terminate it), and the development of fraternities are but a few of tmiforms for the HarVard basebaii over Riley's Grove House, on the team, changed the color of the 'H' west bank of the lake. Their color from crimson to magenta, is the result of a drawn contest because she thought it to be more between them and H-arvard. fashionable and prettier.\ Union claims that she had The Union Crew of 1876, all of whom competed at the Intercollegiate ReGatta at Saratoga in 1875. . Union's contributions to American educational growth. lJ nion's intercollegiate endeavors today are but a shadow of her former greatness, an era in ,I .. ,. With Union and Harvard both mage.nta as a college color in claiming magenta as their 1852,.and Harva~d insiststhat she representative colors, controversy rowed under the. flag in 1859. arose over which college had Since neither was disposed to \ A rare drawing by C. Graham depicted the festive nature of the Regatta at Saratoga in 1875. Union won rights to the color, Magenta, two months earlier. but the Times, under the auspices of a Harvard grad, failed to account for the color change. · FLASH! Concordy has learned from reliable s<Jurces high in the . Broomes Administration that Steering Committee President Jeff Broomes is planning to announce within a week a \full free, and absolute\ pardon for former president Larry Brown. Brown. - in seclusion at his Albany estate, was unavailable for comment. . /. . ·Diwe'aMIRIAif .. ·· ' . ......... - ---·-. . A Natural Food Establishment Pare and Simple, Foods 1808 upper11Dlo1l st Hheneetady, n.y. 12309 •3'17·89'11• LUIGI'S RESTAURANT - . SPECIALIZING IN TYPING Reasonable Rates Fast Service 393-2233 Tht• PAtAC .. : Tht•nfrt• 1 1 i('LISTON .\VENUE \LI\1\NY NE\ YORK COR\lbll Of CliNTON IN I> ~ORTH PE \RL ST HlR TI(KH INFOR\1.\TION (\LL t51H141!5·.1.lJ.l yield, both did, and while Harvard turned to crimson, Union retired precipitately to garnet.'' The Times article failed to report Harvard's demise by the Union CieW on the Charles River\. which may or-may not have been coincidental that the Times' editor was a Harvard alumnus. The resolution of this controversy was to ltav~ a profound impact on the future of .the crew, and Colbath's own · . future. Colbath revealed the true · spirit in whi<;ll the Regatta was held, once the color disput had been settled. \Colleges had agreed to compete at Saratoga in 1875, despite protests that this gambling and resort center would be the moraJ.undoing of the boys.\ As a m_ember of the Union Crew Team, Colbath intimated, \Despite the claims ofadversity, 1 found Saratoga delightful and aU claims of its devilish natUFe to be unfounded.\ Colbath did more than row at Saratoga, for college records indicate that he flunked ALliN THE FAMILY 123 JAY ST. Kitchen Open 11:30 A.M.-10 P.M. BudonDraft 346-9635 Satut•d:n· ()totob(•J• 1Hth ~•t ~~:oo i•m 1 ickets 011 Sale Now at De1a Vu--·Central A'enue De) a Vu · · Northway Mall , Midland Records--Colony Mall Midland Records -Mohawk Italian - American Food . Times Centre J cwclcrs ·- Schcnectadv Tit•kt•ts $-J..:lO. $;) & $C).00 Latham Music Bar- Lath. Shop. cir. '1125 BARRETT ST. SCHENECTADY 016-97.44 I -Enjoy Sizzlmg Steokstmd Chops VM\it Our Cocktail liar New Wave Mu\c Ptllslield Ma\. ft•atm·inp; John Mcl .. at•~hlin and J(•an-tut• l)ont~· -·-- \Tickets available now.\ out of school in the Spring of 1875, aithough he would return to Union one year later. Union did not d'istinguish herself at the Regatta, faring poorly to H~rvard and the world championship Cornell Crew. In any case, both crew ~earns returned to their schools, wearing their colors proudly. Without further crusades in the offering, Varsity rowing degenerated into an intramural sport thereafter, in t8'77, and died altogether in the early eighties. NEXT WEEK: THE WHALE'S PENJS. PAMPER YOUR FEET TRY~S WALLA BEE&., Clarks Wallabee is probably the most comfortable shoe ever designed. Genuine moccasin construction gives Wallabee a glove-like feel that makes tired - feet untired and keeps fresh fee.t ·from ever g~tting tired~ In sand or brown suede and brown or black calf. The Family Shoe Store 147 JAY STREET SCHENECTADY, N.Y.I2305 Tri·~ re~ 1,1rface commeiltf Appare an attemr on cohtrc although are com require m part of following of the sys AH~dog the S(:)curi being lie• Schenecta Union in• $50 (a $.1. $35 depos It IS O·J note that in any co Dogs n under the times. Th run Ioost Neither a1 other bui Finally provide w to house ·must not I be house( owners an such bulle I he uli system j.j, supporten security c the form~ hired a as~istance stress cooperati< communit responsibi owners tli• to remem heen pass l-onna. infringemt sys.tem o.l Security c Conti have. Aln the sttper the Garne run controlled result. Af1 a 2-2 tie, over the remaining second h~: Union's t assists frc <iarivaltis scorin~ \' lrom the. . ' the net .. I.Jis hat tr

h n Tria!l Term · c·ontinued from· Page I ·re&urfaced last year, she conimented. Apparently, the new ruling is an attempt to solve the problem on control. ·The new regulations, although re\'pening registration, are considerably stricter and require more responsibility ·on the part ·of the dog .owner. The following aTe some major points of the system .. Alldogs must be registered in the Security Office, in addition to being licensed by the city of Schenectady. Registration at Union includes the payrnent of $50 (a $.15 registration fee plus a $35 deposit against fines). It IS of special importance to note that dogs are not permitted in any cooking or d·ining area. Dogs must be on a leash and under their owner's control at all times. They are not allowed to run loose in the liv.ing areas. Neither are they permitted in any other building: Finallv. roommates must provide written consent in order to house a dog, and floormates ·must not be disturbed. Dogs must be housed in .the room of their owners and muy not run loose in such buildings. I he ultimate test of the new ~ystem lies in i·ts enforcement, , supporters contend. The· camp\i1s security office is responsible. for the formal enforcement and has hired a dog catcher for daily as~istance. Supporters oft he plan stress the impertance of cooperation from the campus community, even though the main responsibility lies with the dog owners theinse lves. It is important to remember that this system has heen passed on a trial basis. 1-ormal enforcement for infringements is done through a ~ystem of automatic fines. The Security office $half administer a UCo/ Student marvels at rare Schenectady sunliKht. Soccer Continued from Page 12 have. Although Union was clearly the Stlperior team, Clark forced the Gllrnet to play their ownc kifk an run type of game and controlled the first half as a result. After the fi~:st half ended in a 2-2 tie, however, Union ran all over the Cougars fot their remaining three goals in the second half. Craig Jeff1 ies scored llnion~s two first half goals on ttssists from .1 oh.ii Denio. George (iarivaltis opened the second half ~coring when he sto·le the ball I rom the goalie and booted it into tl~e net. Jeffr.ies then completed Ll1s hat trick on an assist hy Do11 CONCOltOlENSIS, Wednesday, October 2, 1914 fine commensurate· with the offense, as t::stablished by the Court on Traffic and Pets. Complaints abot:!t a dog may he filed in the Security Office or ·with the Court on Traffic and Pets. The dog court is set up to hear complaints as they arise and to rule on thern. The Court, an official committee ·of the school, consists of five students and at the present time there are four vacancies. Students interested in filling a posit:ion on the Court should contact Audrey ·Kupchan, room 211, Fox House, by Friday. Continued from Page J but the rank in class data is the hest in four years .. In the class of '75, ten people scored above 750 on the SAT -Verbal exams, compared to one for the class of '78. At,.the .other end of the scale, 48 seniors had SAT,V scores below 500, while 132 freshmen fall into that category. Despite this decline in boards' scores, more freshmen graduated in the top fifth of their high school S.trong Social Program Continued trom l'age I group from Boston called The Shittons-. !his group, consisting of four 'cool mothers' and three 'cheap platinums.' has been receiving great response from audiences at New England colleges such as Fairfield and B.C. To complete the atmosphere of the evening the lead-in group will be none other than Chet Arthur and the Flaming Aces. Committee Chairman ·Fink emphasized that. there is much mort< toH:rOI;ne for the fall term; all committee members are working very hard to fill out the schedule through November. He also stated that the committee needs volunteers for all concerts; free admittance is granted to all those willing to help out. Fink also noted that the committee has openings for seven new members; especiaUy for those interested in publicity, sound, and lighting. All those interested should contact the Social Committee through the Studtnt Activities Office; : Fraternity ·Football hatemities kicked off the intramural f ootba II season this week with some exciting competition. Highlighting the week's activities was Sigma Chi~s syueaker victory over a valiant Alpha Delta Phi, 22-0. Despite Alpha Oelt's halftime offer of the proverbial peace pipe, Sigma Chi played mean and hard, reflecting serious intentions at capturing first place this year. Touchdown passes from Sig .quarterback Randv R uschak to fleet receivers 1om - Everett and Jeff White ~parked the offense. A stellar defense was anchored by experienced seniors Bruce f-reeman in the secondary and aggressive Mike Schafer in the line. D. U. edged out Phi Gamma. Delta in a stubborn battle of defenses, 6-(). The game appeared doomed to a scoreless deadlock when I e rrv T rem b a t h intercepted a h ~rried Fiji pass in the game's fina I play and hit Tom Flynn in·cthe end zone for the game winning touchdown. Theta Delta caught Phi Delta sleeping and won bv forfeit. Frat F~otbali results were: Sigma Chi-22, Alpha Delta Phi-0, n. lJ .-6, Fiji-0, Theta Delta by Forfeit, D. Phi-Beta tied 6-6, Chi Psi-15 and Sigma Phi-12, Delta Chi-12 and Psi U.-0. FRAT SCHEDULE Oct.2 3:30 7-5 (AN) (3-6) (AS) 7:00 1-4 (ON) 14-1:2 (OS) 8:00 X-11 (DS) 10-13 (DN) Oct. 7 2-5 (AN) 4-7 (AS) 9-12 (SN) 11\14 (DS) PHYSICAL EDUCATION CLASS COURSES DAY TIME M & W 11:30\1·2:20 M & W .12:30- 1:20 Tu & Th 2:30- 3:20 M & Th 12:30- 1:20 Tu & F I :30- 2:20 M & Th I :00- 2:30 M & F 10:30•11:20 Tu & Th 10:30-11:20 M & W I :30- 2:20 Tu & Th 10:30-11:20 iu & Th 10:30-11:20 FALL 1974 COURSE Beg. Tennis Inter. Tennis Power Volleyball Keep Fit Beg. Swimming Sr. Life Saving Scuba (w Lecture) Scuba (w Lecture) Beg. Lacrosse Golf 1 Paddleball INSTRUCTOR Weaver Weav.et Weaver Weick Magee Magee Knull Knull All-ison Scanl.on Alden Watd and a few minutes later Jeffries returned the favor by assisting Ward on Urtion's last goal Olaf Neilson. Jim Manning, Boh Grossman, and Mike Smith turned 1 n excellent defensive d'forts. TYPING Reports, Theses, etc. 346·5277 after 6 Very Reasonable Although Union is off to a very .good start, they have a ·rol1gh l'oad in front ofthem. Rochester, Williams, Colgate. Albany State, and Middlebury are all extremely toug:h teams. Thel~ home game schedule is as follows: Rochester, Oct. 2; RPI, Oct. 19; Middlebt1ry, Oct. 26; a1\d rl'inity, Nov. 2. ·Lev,rs Dave's' Mens Shop ' 453 State St. \ (downtoM.I Sc~ncctady) . \' cla·sses than in any of the up:per classes. The increase is about five ,percent, On the basis of high school rank, Shupe labelled the class of '78 \the brightest class in recent history.\ Another indication of the academic standing of the freshman class, as well as of the perce,ived prestige of the college, is which schools are chosen by those w:ho are acc:epted at Union; yet enroll elsewhere. For the class of '75, the five most preferred colleges were CorneJI, Brown, R.P.I .. , U. of Penn., and Would you like to spend .. your spring term at Union in Bogota, Colombia or in Schwabisch Hall, Germany? If so, contact Prof. A.nton Warde, Acting Director of· Term Abroad Programs, right away. (This does not apply if you hav.e already made application.) Sports Shorts A TENNIS·A·THON tor cancer, sponsored by the Schenectady County Unit of The American Cancer Society, will be held bn Sunday, Oct. 6 on Union's tennis courts from 8:00 a.m. to 5,00 p.m. Sponsors will donate- money on a per game bas.is. Bring racket and balls. * * * * SCUBA CLASS has four openings remaining. On Tues., Wed. and Thurs. from 10:30- 11 :20 there are two openings. The Mon., Wed·. and Fri. class from 10:30-11:20 also has two openings. Contact Gale Knull. * * * * OFFICIALS - . Anyone interested in officiating touch football games, sign up with Coach William Scanlon ($2.00 per game.) * * * * TOUCH FOOTBALL, independent league schedules can be picked up on Wed., Oct. 2 in Coach Scanlon's office. * * * * 7 MAN SOCCER All rosters must be submit ted by Friday, October lith. ·pr.i Sigma Kappa By Nancy Frankel On Friday, Sept. 27, the Brothers and Little Sisters of Phi Sigma Kappa presented the movie, '\On the Waterfront,\ ~tarring Marlon Brando. The amount raised, one hundred sixty·fi~e dollars is being donated to the United Cerebral Palsy Association of Schenectady, Inc. The idea for the project was conceived last spring. Members of the fraternity canvassed the a.rea seeking donations to cover the cost of the film. The contributions ROOM FOR RENT . - Loeated o'Ter Peter Pause Restaurant,· 535 Nott St. 3 Beedrooms, living room, bath and ·rutehcn. SIS per week (Heat, water, electricity included). See Peter Pause Proprietors for Info. 'Serving Union For Three Page 11 . Rochester, respectively. For the class. of '78, the corresponding five schools were U. of Penn., Cornell, Rochester, Trinity, and Tufts/ Jackson. · Total enrollment is up approximately 19% from the class of '75, yet the percentage of those accepted who enrolled is down five percent from '75. For the class of '75, 49% of those who applied were accepted, for the class of '78, the corresponding figure was 63%. Football Continued from Page 12 inabilitv to get the ball to the punter: dropped further behind when a second quarter snap sailed over Bill Mowery's head and through the end zone for a safety. The Dutchmen bounced back aga.in, this time marching from their own I 0 before settling for 37 yard field goal by frosh Mark Frampton. This left Tufts in control by a 15-10 margin at the half. As the second half started so did Union as their two touchdowns early in the final period made the outlook bright. The first T.D. was the result of a 713 yard drive which sported a 36 yard strike from Ricky Mayell to Lou Miller. It was one of five catches on the afternoon for the lanky Garnet end. 'Again it was Westbrook who carried the mail 16 yards for the score and a 16-15 Union lead. lhe Dutchmen defense hung tough an.d the offense got the ball and went to work. This time it took them only five plays to score with Westbrook getting his third touchdown of the day on a brilliant 69 yard run. Ronnie accounted for 208 ·yards in 33 tries while Leonard Lee registered another sttmar performance gaining 91 yards. Although the Dutchmen had come back from a 13-0 deficit to lead 23-15, once again they were );tung again by Darell Brown who took the ensuing kickoff 95 yards for the score. The Jumbos still trailed 22-23 but the scored on' a well executed pass play after a Union fumble. The Garnet refused to die as they drove to the lufts II yard line before an interception in the end zone ended the Dutchmen's bid. lhe squad is idle this weekend and travels to face tough Rochester before taking on arch riyal R.P.l. Homecoming Weekend. from local merchants amotmted to $85. Contributors were: Moffett's Liquor Store, King of Subs, Lafayette Clothes, Jake Lipstein's Liquor store, Maurice B. Graubert and Sons, Van Curler Music Store, Snappy Men's Shop, the Peanut Store and Ferro Pharmacy. Dean Wylen donated the projection facilities. Watch Out! It's Coming Nov. 14-15

Football Opens 86th Campaign BY ED COLLINS The Union College Dutchman, spearheaded by senior co-captain Ron Westbrook, apen their 86th football campaign this faiL Westbrook has been the leading · rusher on the Union squad for the pas.uhree years. As a freshman he gathered 250 yards and added 614 more the next year. Last season the Union workhorse gained 555 yards and is expected to lead the team again this year. Teaming with Westbrook in the. other halfback slot will be sophomore Leonard Lee (Clairton, Pa.). According to head coach Gerry Everling, Lee should take some of the pressure off Westbrook this season and Playing The Field .•. athletics offer the young a fine opportunity to be with and to know their contemporaries, and thereb:y become social beings ... Paul Weiss Since the terJHi.Ration of the mandatory phys-ed program a few years back very few students have taken an active interest in the maintenance of a Physical Education program. In our three years at Union, one of the glaring deficie.ncies of a non- academic nature. has been our lack of an adequate intermural and phys-ed program: The reason for this deficiency is not of a singular nature. .provid~ Union with a lia,lanced running attack. \Pound for pound we have two of the nicest running backs in the area,\ Coach Everling n:marked. Lee is the smaller of the two at 152 pounds to Westbrook's 155. Seni(>r Joe Urschel (Albany, N.Y.) will be the starting 4 uarterback. \He 1 S improVed greatly from last season and has developed the ability to read coverage successfuiiy,\ Everling commented. Rounding out the backfield \~ ·,:,;ugoac;k will be either Mike Deshler .(Winchester, Mass.) or Dave Kates (New Rochelle, N.Y.), a returning starter who was ·injured in .pre- season. . Coach Everling is proud of his offensive front line .. \This is the hest line I've seen in five yeats at Union.\ The starters inclt~de .freshman Bill Greco (Whitehall, N.Y.). at tight ·end, S'ophomore Barry Pannell (Beth, N.Y.) at split eoo,, senior Rich Burrel (Pawcatuck, Conn.) and freshman Roger Payne (Shovtsville, N.Y.) at the tackles, juniors Jim Dupes. (Middletown, Pa .. ) and Tom Pastore (Lindenhurst, N.Y) at the guards, and sophomore Leigh Gulas ( Pottsvi'Ie, Pa.) at center. Returning starter Bill Spelman, a senior fr.om New Rochelle, N.Y., will be flanked at the linebacker position by juniors Jack Dunn (Norristown, Pa.) and· Kevin Heneghan (Carmel, N.Y.). The front four will consist of sophomore Frank Hoster tcolumbus, Ohio) and .senior Do0: Rupsis (Schenectady, N.Y.) at the end positions and junior Charlie Alter (New London, Conn.) and sophomore Charlie Fenson (Endwell, N.Y.) at the tackles. Both Rups.is and Alter are returning starters and are expected to anchor the front line. The safeties will be seniors Steve Andres (Westfield, Mass.) and Dave Ricks .(Pt. Pleasant, N.J.). Sophomores Tom Hood (Cornish Flat, N.H.) and Bob Mathias (Merrick, N.Y.) will start · at the cornerbacks. Coach Everling is switching from the 1-forrnation to a Pro- formation this year,. in an attempt to establish more of a running game. The added speed and ability of Leonard Lee to compliment Ron Westbrook should give Union scoring potential. Westbrook, Spelman and Ricks are this year's tri- captains. Workhorsf! Westbrook Smashes Record.· ()nion Rushing F ootballers at .5 00 but Loaking Tough Union opened tts 8.6th foetball carnpaign on a Winni.n.g n6~e by downing Worcester Polytechnic; Institute 7..6 in a rain drenched g&ille. The contest was supposed to be an indication of how the Dutchmen would fair this season. The game proved to be no barometer as the muddy field, even more than Worcester, pre¥ented Union from showing her stuff ·- an excellent offensive line and the e~plosive running ability of Leonard Lee and Ron Westbrook. Yet, even the weather could not completely contain them. Lenny Lee, only a sophomore covered Ill yards in 28 carries while senior Ron Westbrook picked up 86 yards in 27 tries. \Brook's\ 86 yards gave him a career total of I ,504 rushing yards making him the top running back at Union since WW II when Joe James hung up his spikes after collecting I ,494 yards. In spite of the field conditions Union's defense looked really sharp as Steve Andrews picked off two W .P.I. aerials, Bill Spelman smothered sweeps, and Jack Dunn and Charlie Alter controlled the line of scrimmage. In fact Worcester could only come up with 8 first downs (compared to 14 for Union) and when W.PJ.'s score finally came, late in the second half, it was a result of U ni01:i's punter being smothered on his own two yard line after he Was unable to handle the second of three consecutive had snaps. One play later, Worcester's tail back., Rohe.rt Gray, bUHed his way in for their only score. W.P.L thell missed their chance to tie as the P.A.T. went wide. The Dutchmen then held onto their slim lead for a 7-6 victory. At Tufts; last Saturday, the Dutchmen lost 28-23 but had i1othing to be ashamed of as they lost a thriller in spite of out playing their opponents most of the day. The Union players shoWed Tufts and their many hearty fans who made the journey to Boston that, once again, under the guidance of Gerry Everling, they have pt.!t together a fine football team which is sure to be hoth tough to heat and fun to watch. Finally getting on dry turf, the Dutchmen's offense proved awesome netting 464 yards while yielding only 258 to a highly touted Tuft's offense. The athletic facilities at Union were sadly lacking, especially in view of the ever increasing enrollment. Interest and enthusiasm on the part of the athletic department in areas other than intercollegiate competition was certainly suspect. Unfortunately. any lack of interest on their part was only compounded by even greater disinterest on the part of Union students. Recently steps have been taken to remedy the above situation. As for improving the facilities, we now have a new Tartan surface in the fieldhouse and two new paddle tennis courts. Both a new gymnasium and ice rink are also in the planning stages at this moment. Round · Bailers Wi,n Opener .At the outset it appeared that Union might be in for a long day as the Jumbo's sophomore halfback Darrel Brown took the opening kickoff 86 yards to pay dirt. Although their pass for two more failed, they quickly pulled ahead 13 to Zip when they sprailg running back Tim Whelan for a 69 yard T.D. sweep. The athletic staff at Union is certainly both capable and personable. Their increased efforts on both organizational and instructional. levels will insure a worthwhile schedule of physical recreation. U nf ortunately,this leaves apathy on the part of Union students as the only remaining obstacle. With the exception of last years hard fought basketball competiti0n, intramural efforts have all been unsuccessful. Many teams fail to show, and perhaps the greatest tragedy is that ifs always the same few teams who do. How some students can so painstakingly cultivate the reso1:1rces of their minds while neglecting their physical shape is a crime. Exercise is vital f()r a healthy mind and body! Claims of ignorance or inability with regard to recreational sports are invalid. Our athletic department offers instruction in a wide variety of sports from paddleball to scuba diving. Attendance in these classes has been extremely poor in the past, and as far as ability goes, most clubs emphasize enjoyment and self improvement rather than all out competition. It .is our belief that the competitive nature of this school in academic areas creates a great deal of tension. We feel· that many may be surprised at how much a few laps, a set of tennis or better yet an intramural game can relax and refresh your mind. Go on up to the gym or fieldhouse, join a class, a club or your floor sports team. After all, sport comes from the word disport, which means to divert, to amuse, to carry away from work. So give it a try, we think you'll enjoy it. The Editors BY LEE RIMSKY AND JOHN BUSTERUD lhis past Saturday, the Garnet hooters travelled to picturesque Worcester, Massachusetts to take on a highly touted Clark soccer ~quad. After a shaky first half, Union's class prevailed and· they emerged with a crushing 5-2 victory. Saturday's game was their first official game, marking the completion of three weeks of preseason practice in which the Dutchmen posted triumphs over perennial Ivy League powet Columbia (3-l ), the Alumni (3.:()), and Hudson Valley (5·0). This year's varsity, in light of its first four showings, seems to possess the all-around depth that was so noticably lacking in last year's 5- 4-I squad. Aided by four freshmen and a junior college transfer, this year's team boasts the personnel necessarY to handle Coach Magee's new 3-4-3 formation. The newcomers, freshmen George Garivaltis, Ray Stecker, Jim Manning, and Mike \Bamboo\ Smith, along with Berkshire Community College first team all New England goalie Chris Huban. have given the Garnet a tremendous life. They join senior captains Bo.b Grossman, Olaf Nielson, and Doug Moran, and t_welve returning lettermen to form the basis of this vear's team. The offense will be. led by forwards c;raig Jeffries, John Denio, Rich Earl, George Garivaltis, Miles Hirson, Parker Anton and Jim Philip, The all-important .halfback positions will be manned hy Olaf Neilson. Doug Moran, Dave Sanderson, Don Ward, Ray Stecker,and U:e Rimsky, and the defense will consist of Tim 1- itzgerald, Jim Manning, Bob (irossman. Jim Bacharch, Mike S1nith, and Ralph Roumain. The goaltending duties will be handled hy Chris Huban and .John Busterud. The victory against Clark did n.ot go as smoothly as it should Continued on Page 11 The Dutchmen, refusing to lie down. for anypody, came roaring hack driving 80 yards in nine plays for their initial score. Ron Westbrook's 24 yard T.D. burst highlighted the drive and Mark hampton split the uprights narrowing the deficit to 13-7. lJ Ilion, continually who has been plagued by her Leonard Lee Explod!J1gfor Paydirt. M Stu' at iii St w by Li ·An a'PP~ 'breakdown Conege's · • station, en:< .. of two k• Moriday, ~ communica not mecl1ar kind .that c longer spea Steve· Sok, manager, resig.nation 30th, at meet i.ng. resignation traffic dire ·ega By FRE D.ean Ki York l)ni answered prospective week. He illusions stt that law s< c atn petitive It probl smptise bu the LawSd become inc Another fai important, point avei average is both the co1 . the applica school's te}i Kimball, the deter.mined mean LSJl admission stated that ' tbe second as Roche Hamilton l schools Williams.\ Dear .A COUnt/e. SS and 16 side( for a r~ Wonder, college

Page l2 CONCORDIENSIS, Wednesday, October 2, I 974 Football Opens 86th Campaign BY ED COLLINS I he Union College DutchmaH, spearheaded by senior co-captain Ron Westbrook, e>pen their 86th football campaign this faiL Westbrook has been the leading rusher on the Union squad for the pas_t three years. As a freshman he gathered 25{) yards and aclded 614 more the next year. Last season the Union workhorse gained 555 yards and is expected to lead the team again this year. I earning with Westbrook in the other halfback slot will be sophomore Leonard Lee !Clairton, Pa.). According to head coach Gerry Everling, Lee shouid take some of the pressure off Westbrook this season and Playing The Field ... athletics offer the young a fine opportunity to be with and to know their contemporaries, and thereby become social beings ... Paul Weiss Since the term·ination of the mandatory phys-ed program a few years back very few students have taken an active interest in the maintenance of a Physical Education program. In our three years at Union. one of the glaring deficiencies of a non- academic nature, has been our lack of an adequate intermural and phys-ed program. The reason for this deficiency is not of a singular nature. provide union with a oolanced running attack. '\Pound for pound we have twe of the nicest running backs in the area,\ Coach Everling remarked. Lee is the smaller of the two at 152 pounds to Westbrook's ISS. Senior Joe Urschel (Albany, i'<.Y.) win be the starting 4lolarterback. \He's improved greatly from last season and has developed the ability to read coverage successfuHy,\ Everling commented. Rounding out the hack field \' ·.:. ;u~oack will be t!ither Mike Deshler (Winchester, Mass.) or Dave Kates (New Rochelle. N.Y.), a retuning ~tarter who was injured iA pre- ~eason. Coach Everling is proud of his offens.ive front line. '\This is the hest I ine I've seeH in five years at Union.\ !he starters inclMde freshman Bill Greco (Whitehall, N.Y.) at tight end, sophomore Barry Pannell (Beth, N.Y.) at split end, senior Rich Burrel { Pa wca tuck, Conn.) and freshman Roger Payne (Shortsville, N.Y.) at the tackles, juniors Jim Dupes (Middletown, Pa.) and Tom Pastore {Lindenhurst, N.Y.) at the guards, and ~ophomore Leigh (.ju!as ( Pottsvi11e, Pa.) at center. Returning starter Bill Spelman, a senior from New Rochelle, N.Y., will he flanked at the linebacker position by jttniors Jack Dunn (Norristown, Pa.) and Kevin Heneghan (Carmel, N.Y.). The front four will consist of sophomore Frank Hoster (·Columbus, Ohio) and senior Don Rupsis (Schenectady, N.Y.) at the end positions and junior Charlie Alter (New London, Conn.) and sophomore Charlie J-enson (Endwell, N.Y.) at the tackles. Both Rupsis and Alter are returning starters and are expected to anchor the front line. The safeties will be seniors Steve Andres {Westfield, Mass.) and Dave Ricks (Pt. Pleasant, i\.J.). Sophomores Tom Hood !Cornish Flat, N.H.) and Bob Mathias (Merrick, N.Y.) will start at the cornerbacks. Coach Everling is switching lrom the !-formation to a Pro- formation this year, in an attempt to establish more of a running game. The added speed and ability of Leonard Lee to compliment Ron Westbrook should give Union scoring potential. Westbrook, Spelman and Ricks are this year's tri- captains. Workhorse Westbrook Smashes Union RushinK Record. footbaUers at .500 but Looking 1 ough Union opened its ~6th football campaign on a winning note by downing Worcester Polytechnic Institute 7-tJ in a rain drenched game. The contest was supposed to be an indication of how the Dutchmen would fair this season. I he game proved to be no barometer as the muddy field, even more than Worcester, prevented Union from showing her stuff -- an excellent offensive line and the explosive running ability of Leonard Lee and Ron Westbrook. Yet, even the weather could not completely contain them. Lenny Lee, only a sophomore covered I II yards in 2~ carries while senior Ron Westbrook picked up 86 yards in 2 7 tries. \Brook's\ 86 yards gave him a career total of I ,504 rushing yards making him the top running back at Union since WW II when Joe James hung up his spikes after collecting l ,494 yards. ln spite of the field conditions Union's defense looked really sharp as Steve Andrews picked off two W .P .I. aerials, Bill S pclrna n smothered sweeps, and Jack Dunn and Charlie Alter controlled the line of scrimmage. In fact Worcester could only come up with g first downs lcotnpared to 14 for Union) and v.hen W.P.l.'s score finally came, late in the second half, it was a result of Union's punter being 'mothered on his own two yard line after he was unable to handle the second of three consecutive had snaps. One play later. Worcester's tail back, Robert (iray, bulled his way in for their only score. W.P.I. then missed their chance to tie as the P.A.T. went wide. The Dutchmen then held on to their slim lead fora 7-6 \ ictery. At tufts; last Saturday, the Dutchmen lost 28-23 but had nothing to be ashamed of as they lost a thriller in spite of out playing their opponents most of the day. The Union players showed rufts and their many hearty fans who made the journey to Boston that, once again, under the guidance of Gerry Everling, they have put together a fine football team which is sure to be both tough to beat and fun to v.atch. f-inally getting on dry turf, the Dutchmen's offense proved awesome netting 464 yards while yielding only 258 to a highly touted Tuft's offense. The athletic facilities at Union were sadly lacking, especially in view of the ever increasing enrollment. Interest and enthusiasm on the part of the athletic department in areas other than intercollegiate competition was certainly suspect. Unfortunately, any lack of interest on their part was only compounded by even greater disinterest on the part of Union students. Recently steps have been taken to remedy the above situation. As for improving the facilities. we now ha\e a new Tartan surface in the fieldhouse and two new paddle tennis courts. Both a new gymnasium and ice rink are also in the planning stages at this moment. Round • Bailers Win Opener At the outset it appeared that Union might be in for a long day as the Jumbo's sophomore halfback Darrel Rrown took the opening kickoff Hn yards to pay dirt. Although their pass for two more failed, they 4uickly pulled ahead 13 to Zip when they sprang running hack Tim Whelan for a 69 yard T.D. sweep. The athletic staff at Union is certainly both capable and personable. l heir increased efforts on both organizational and instructional levels will insure a worthwhile schedule of physical recreation. Unfortunately,thi~ leaves apathy on the part of Union students as the only remaining obstacle. With the exception of last years hard fought basketball competiti0n. intramural efforts have all been unsuccessful. Many teams tail to show. and perhaps the greatest tragedy is that it's always the same few teams who do. How some students can so painstakingly cultivate the resources of their minds while neglecting their physical shape is a crime. Exercise is vital for a healthy mind and body! Claims of ignorance or inability with regard to recreational sports are invalid. Our athletic department offers instruction in a wide variety ot sports !rom paddlehall to scuba diving. Attendance in these classes has heen extremely poor in the past. and as tar as ability goes, most clubs emphasize enjoyment and self Improvement rather than all out competition. It is our hcliet that the competitive nature of this school in academic areas creates a great deal of tension. We feel that many may be surprised at how much a few laps, a set of tennis or hetter yet an intramural game can relax and refresh your mind. Cio on up to the gym or fieldhouse, join a class, a club or your t1oor sports team. After all, sport comes from the word disport. which means to divert, to amuse, to carry away from work. So give it a try, we think you'll enjoy it. The Editors BY LEE RIMSKY AND JOHN BUSTERUD l his past Saturday, the Garnet hooters travelled to picturesque Worcester, Massachusetts to take on a highly touted Clark soccer ~4uad. After a shaky first half, I; nion's class prevailed and they emerged with a crushing 5-2 \ ictory. Saturday's game was their first nfficial game, marking the completion of three weeks of preseason practice in which the Dutchmen posted triumphs over perennial Ivy League power Columbia (3-I ), the Alumni (3-0), and Hudson Valley (5-0). This year's varsity, in light of its first I our showings, seems to possess the all-around depth that was so noticably lacking in last year's 5- 4-l squad. Aided by four lreshmen and a junior college transfer. this year·~ team boasts the personnel necessary to handle Coach Magee's new J-4-3 !ormation. lhe newcomers, freshmen George Ga rivaltis, Ray Stecker, Jim Manning, and Mike \Bamboo\ Smith, along with Herkshire Community College first team all New England goalie Chris Huban. have given the (iarnet a tremendous life. They ,1oin senior captains Bob Grossman, Olaf Nielson, and Doug Moran, and t.welve returning lettermen to form the oasis of this Year's team. I he offense will he. led by forwards Craig Jeffries, John Denio. Rich 1-arl, George Garivaltis, Miles Hirson, Parker 1\nton and Jim Philip. !\he all-important halfback positions will be manned by Olaf :'\eilson, Doug Moran. Dave Sanderson. Don Ward, Rav Stcc ker, and Lee Rimskv. and th~ defe nsc will consist . of I im 1-itr,gcrald, Jun Manning. Bob < irossman, Jim Hacharch. Mike Smith. and Ralph Roumain. I he /!oal.tending duties will be handled hy Chris Huhan and .John Bustcrud. I he victory against Clark did not go as smoothlv as it should ('ontinued on Page I I lite Dutchmen. refusing to lie down for anybody. came roaring bad driving 80 yards in nine plays for their initial score. Ron Westbrook's 24 yard T.D. burst highlighted the drive and Mark hampton split the uprights narrowing the deficit to !3-7. lin ion. continually who has plagued by ('ontinued on . Page II .. .,: . •.· ·!. ,;;,,~;.~,~ been her Leonard Lee Explodingfor Paydirt. / I 1 . ' 1 I -1 ' I l .-~ 1 ' ' . ' ~ Stt a inS Vol. 1 w lily t. .\II .app h r~a kdow r: ( ·ollegc's 'tat ion, en \f two k \londay. ,. om m u Ilic; 11 ot 1necha ~ i11d that 1 lm1ger spe<: Steve Sllk 111 anager, resignation .H Jtl1 , .a I 111ceti ng re~igJJa tion traffic d ir1 :Lege: · .. i ! I I . •i I By FRJ Dean K York Un answered prospective week. He ill us ions st that law s competitiv~ It prob surprise b1 the Law Sc become in Another fa important, point ave average is hoth the co the applic; school's reJ K.imbaU, th determined mean LS, admission stated that the second as Roche Hamillon schools Willimns.\ Dear , countlt SS anc 16 side for a r wandel college

t M~~ting with Student Tr.nstees at tefi o.'clocli tonight in Stra~s.tounge. Steering CommiUee Meeting, Mon. night in Fox Lounge at 7 pm. founded at Union' Colkg• iii 1877 · Wednesd~y, October 9, 1:974 . ~ ~·~ •· W - ·. ·a·,~:·---~u_··_ -·-c··· :-,, .l • ' :, ' ~:.;_ · .. ' ' ' ' . ID Sl -· ~ d- ·n··-. · · • .· 1ppe · · ... ·tsc by LARRY S1'0NE An ~pparent co111munications breakdown at W.R.lJ .C.., Union ·. Cofle,ge's student-run tadio ' station,. end¢d in the resignatiGns · of two key W .R. U. C. · figqres Monday, Septe!'nbet 30th. The communicatiops· brea'klfown was not mechanical,:but personal;'the kind that occtirs- When people no longer speak toeach.other. Senior Steve Sokol, W.R .l:J.C. .station manager, a.nnou.nced his resignation Monday, S¢ptember ]Oth, at the executive board meeting. The followi·ng resignation of Stuart Dwork, traffic director, was seen as a m0ve .of .sympathy for Sokol's position. According t-o General Ma-nager, and p,resident of W.R.IJ.C, Don Kapla:n, these developments were a ''complete s1:1rprise.\ Kaplan claimed he had no idea that there was a problem Gf such magnitude 011 his staff, because no one had · confrot1ted him with any complaints. Kaplan Went on to say that he felt Sokol was acting \ilhrnaturely\ by resigning without any explanation. • 35 cents egal Eagle By FRED WEINST:ElN D.ean Kimball, dean of New York I) niversity law school, answered the quest-ions of prospective. law stude-nts hete last week. He also dispelled any illusions students may have had- th~t law schools are not highly Steve Sokql has been actively iitvol:ved in the running of W.R.U.C. fortwo years, and even participated in the bi:Jilding of the W.R,U.C. studio, two years ago, in Carnegie Hall. Last winter, when elections for W.R.U.C. were held, Steve rail unopposed for the office of Station Manager. When nsked wh,rhe resigned, Sokol daimed that he was doing \inordinate amounts of work,\ Continued on Page 10 Book- Brea:ch Bonner Inaugurated as 15th Pr_- esident of Union ' . - . competitive. · lt probably comes as no .• _ · surprise but Kimball ¢!ted that the Law School Aptitude Test has become increasingly signjficant. Another factor, which is eq,ually important, is the student's grade point average. However, this average is viewed in relation to both the corrtpetititm for .grades at the applicant's school and the sd1ooFs reputation, According to Kimball, the school's reputation is determined from the .school's mean LSAF average--and its admission standards. Kimball stated that \Union is at the top of the second strata of schools such · as Rochester, Colgate, and Hamilton but not in line with schools U:ke Amherst ot Williams.'' .. By ALICF: TUF£L If Union considers community, coo.pera'tion and consideration as things which sho-uld be seen on this campus, student behavior towards Schaff.er Library in many instances is violating these ideas, resuLtin,g - o-nly in harming themselves -a-nd others as welL · Th.ere are innumerable .examples of book vandalism in the library: For instance, two books which were recently found in the basement of a dormitory had been soaked thoroughly in mud and water, leaving them a messy collection of pages. Apparently, some student Was too Contin~ed on :P~tge 6. · by CINDY SHEPPARD Thomas Nevi-He Bonner, Union's 15th president; was inaugurated in Memorial Chapel on Saturday, in a ceremony which combined traditio~, pomp, and · .festivity. ·Led by the Schenectady Pipe Band, an academic pr.Q.Cesflion, including Deans of the College and University, faculty members, Trustees, and members of the Alumni Council, preceded the inaugural ceremony. Delegates ·from over 100 colleges and universities and representatives from seVeral learned societies a-lso composed a major portion of the processio·n. Students were represented in the procession by offiCers of the student body and members of fraternities. Addressing a haU · filled to capacity,~hairman of the Board of Trustees Sam·tiel B. Deat Mr. Ramee: We_ under#and that you hav(! turned, o\'er in your grave countless times siriee the construction o.l the Nott. Memorial. Even the stuc('oing of SS and Humanities cannot possibly complele your plan for the camp11s with that 16 sided house of cards right in the middle. We of Cencordy have drawn up plans for a repiacement, an artis't'.(t conception o:f which you see abo·ve. They're doing Wonders in the botvny lab these days, and a simple alteration in the name of the college Wiilmakt ours the most interesting campus in .the hation. We are standing by lit the Ouija lmardfor your rep~v; Fortenbaugh welcomed the President of the College and distinguished guests. and visitor~. Chancellor of Union University. Representatives of various Presi-dent Bonner then organizations also addressed the addressed the group, reflecting on audience, expressing their best Union's history aiid: its place in wishes for Union and its new the future. His remarks included preside.nt. Speakers included Jeff assurances that his belief in the Broomes, President of the necessity of public Universities Student :Body; A Winslow Paig~;, was not inconsistent with his President of the Alumni Council; commitment to small, private Joseph B. B<Jard, Robert Porter schools, as well as an outline of Patterson Professor of his three-point \battle plan\ for Government at Union; Ernest B. insuring the continuing existence Mo.rris, President of the Board of of such small, independent Governors; Alexander J. Allan, institutions. The \battle plan\ Jr., Regent of the University of· called for: l) a new :mderstanding the State of New York; and and cooperation between public Martha Peterson, President of and' private post-secondar)' Barnard College. schools; 2) vigorous advocacy on The Union College Glee Clu.b, behalf of liberal education as under the direction of Hugh Allen career education; and 3) mote Wilson, pravided music for the effective exploitation of the occasion, singing \Now Praise We \special breed of faculty\ which Great and Famous Men\ and cha.ra-cteriL;es indep.endent \Exstiltate JustL\ The grqup later colleges. led the audience in the alma Following the President's mater, \Ode to Union.\ Inaugural Remarks, Robert F. Mr. Fortertbaugh returned to Murray, Jr., Trustee, presented speak, whereupon 'he installed Dr. three candidates for honoraty Bonne.r, confirming him as Continued on Page 6 Hockey Rink To Be Built By KEVIN CRAWFORD Rejoice Union, the ice rink is on its way. Union college will soon have an . indoor, multi~ purpose ice skating facility. The endless benefits to be derived from this exciting recreational facility were made possible through the great generosity of H. ·Laurence Achilles of Manchester, Vt. Mr. Achilles is a former faculty member at Union and was once a hockey coach here. lhe building, which will cost well in excess of a million dollars, will he circular in design though retaining its Urrioli identity with stucco and white arches. Its location will be between Daley Field (soccer .and lacrosse field) and Memorial Fieldhouse on the Daley side of the brook. The site is ideal both because of its proximity to the fieldhouse and athletic fields and because i.t will be built on land of no essential importance as of this moment. The very detailed pia ns have not yet been finalize~ but plans are for groundbr.ea:king early this November and hopefully a usable, functioning facility some time next fall. The architects are Link and. Cullen of Schenectady, N.Y. The b:uilding will have tWo floors and three levels. The bottom floor will essentially house the four curling sheets. The upper floor will hold the skating rink, 200 ft. by 85 ft. or 4 tennis courts depending on tl1e time of year. The structure will be 222ft. in diameter with a total floor area of over 5,000 sq. ft. Total seating capacity will reach 2, 500 combining permanent and temporary bleachers. I termed the building exciting because indeed it is. It will be available for ice hockey, recreational skating, ice dancing and of course curling. In the early fall or spring, the four tennis courts will be an added boon for our sometimes overcrowded court needs. The building is also being designed with acoustics in mind so that concerts are a definite possibility. · Prof. Kershner, ·athletic ('ontinu~d on Page 6 .

a d d n e e e y a IC st ts n : i i '~ j : ~ -l . I ., i . 1 Meeting with Student Trustees at ten o'clock tonight in Straws Lounge . founded at Union College in 1877 Steering Committee Meeting, Mon. night in t•ox Lounge at 7 pm. ···--------------------------------------~----- ', ,\ :1 V@], 104, No.2 Wedmesday, October 9, 1974 . i • WRUC. Ill Slipped Disc by LARRY STONE :\n apparent communications hmtkdown at W.R.U.C., Union · · ( ·ullcgc's student-run radio ,tation, ended i·n the resignatioNs of t11.n kev W.R.U.C. figures \londav. S-eptember 30th. The l·ommu-nications breakdown was not mechanical, but personal; the ~ i11d that occurs when people no lo11ger speak to each, other. Senior Steve Sokol, W.R.U.C. sta.tion lllanagcr, annoulilccd his resignation Monday, September .Hltl1, at the executive board nHeting. !'he following resignation of Stuart Dwork, traffic director, was seen as a move of ~ympathy for Soknl\ position. /\<.:cording to General Manager, and president of W.R.U.C., Don Kaplan, these developments were a \complete surprise.\ Kaplan rlaim~d he had mo idea that there \\as a problem of such magnitude on his staff, hecause no one had confronted him with any complaints. Kaplan went on to 'ay that he felt Sokol was acting \immaturely\ by resigning \~ithout any explanation. · 35 .:ents .Legal Eagle By FRED WEINSTEIN Dean Kimball, dean of New York University law school, - answered the questions of prospective law students here last week. He also dispelled any ill us ions students may have had that law schools are not highly competitive. Steve Sokol has been actively involved in the running of W.R.U.C. for two years, and even participated in the building of the W.R.U .C. studio, two years ago, in Carnegie Hall. Last winter, \\hen elections for W.R.U.C. were held, Steve ran unopposed for the o!Tice of Station Manager. When asked why he resigned, Sokol claimed that he was doing \inordiNate amounts of work,\ Continued on Page 10 Book Breach Bonner Inaugurated as 15th President of Union lt probably comes as no surprise but Kimball cited that the Law School Aptitude Test has become increasingly significant. Another factor, which is equally important, is the student's grade point average. However, this average is viewed in relation to both the competition for grades at the applicant's school and the school's reputation. According to Kimball, the school's reputation is determined from the school's tnean LSAT· average and its admission standards. Kimball stated that \Union is at the top of the second strata of schools such as Rochester, Colgate, and Hamihon but not in line with schools like Amherst or Williams.\ By ALICE TUFEL If Union considefs community, cooperation and consideration as things which should be seen on this campus, student behavior towards Schaf(er Library in many instances is violating these ideas, resu!Jing only in harming themselves and others as well. I'here are innumerable examples of book vandalism in the library. For instance, two books which were recently found in the basement of a dormitory had ~een soaked thoroughly in mud and water, leaving them a messy collection of pages. Apparently, some student was too Continued on Page 6 · by CINDY SHEPPARD Tltomas Neville Bonner, Union's 15th president, was inaugurated in Memorial Chapel on Saturday, in a ceremony which combined tradition, pomp, and festi.vity. Le<l by the Schenectady Pipe Hand, an academic pr~ession, inclu<ling Deans of the Col,lege and University, faculty members, Trustees, and members .of the Alutnni Council, preceded the inaugural ceremony. Delegates · from over 100 colleges and universities and representatives from several learned societies also composed a major portion of the procession. Students were represented in the procession by officers of the student body and members of fraternities. Addressing a hall filled to capacity, Chairman of the Board of Trustees Samuel B. Dear Mr. Ramee: We understand that you have turned over in your !;raw:> countless times since the construction (~!'the Nott Memorial. Even the stuccoing (~l SS and Humanities cannot possibly complete your plan for the campus with that I 6 sided house of cards rif;ht in the middle. We of Concordy have drawn up plans .for a replacement, an artist's conception of which you see abvvC!'. They're doing wonders in the botony lab these days, and a simple alteration in the name (~lthe college will make ours the most interesting campus in the natiorz. We are standing by at the Ou~ja hoardfor your replv. F ortenba ugh welcomed the distinguished guests and visitors. Representatives of various organizations also addressed the audience, expressing their best wishes for Union and its new president. Speakers included Jeff Broomes, President of the Student Body; A. Winslow Paige, President of the Alumni Council; Joseph B. Board, Robert Porter Patterson Professor of <.Jovernment at Union; Ernest B. Morris, President of the Board of <1overnors; Alexander J. Allan, Jr., Regent of the University of the State of New York; and Martha Peterson, President of Barnard College. lhe Union College Glee Club, under the direction of Hugh Allen Wilson, pmvided music for the occasion, singing \Now Praise We Great and Famous Men\ and \Exsultate Justi.\ The group later led the audience in the alma mater, \Ode to Union.\ Mr. Fortenbaugh returned to ~peak, whereupon he installed Dr. Bonner, confirming him as President of the College and Chancellor of Union University. President Bonner then addressed the group, reflecting on Union's history and its place in the future. His remarks included assurances that his belief in the necessity of public universities was not inconsistent with his commitment to small, private schools, as well as an outline of his three-point \battle plan\ for insuring the continuing existence of such small, independent institutions. The \battle plan\ called for: I) a new :mderstanding and cooperation between public and private post-secondar)' schools; 2) vigorous advocacy on ocha If of liberal education as career education; and 3) more effective exploitation of the \special breed of faculty\ which characterizes independent colleges. b olio wing the President's Inaugural Remarks, Robert F. Murray, Jr., Trustee. presented three candidates for honorary ( untinued on Page 6 Hockey Rink To Be Built By KEVIN CRA Wf'ORD Rejoice Union, the ice rink is on its way. Union college will soon have an indoor, multi- purpose ice skating facility. The endless benefits to be derived from this exciting recreational facility were made possible through the great generosity of H. Laurence Achilles of Manchester, Vt. Mr. Achilles is a former faculty member at Union and was once a hoc kev coach here. rl1e buildi~g. which will cost v.dl in excess of a million dollars, will he circular in design though retaining its l1 nion identity with !'tucco and white arches. Its location will be between Daley held (soccer and lacrosse field) and Memorial Fieldhouse on the Daley side of the brook. The site is ideal both because of its proximity to the fie ldhouse and athletic fields and because it will be built on land of no essential importance as of this moment. The very detailed plans have not yet been finalized but plans are for groundbreakin~ early this :'\' ovemher and hopefully a usable, functioning facility some time next fall. The architects are Link and Cullen of Schenectadv, !\. Y. The b'uilding will ha~e two floors and three levels. The bottom floor will esscntiallv house the four curling sheets. Th~ upper floor will hold the skating rink, 200 ft. by H5 ft. or 4 tennis courts depending on the time of vear. The structure will he 222 ft. In diameter with a total floor area of over 5,000 sq. ft. Total seating capacity will reach 2,500 com hining permanent and temporary bleachers. I termed the huilding exciting hecause mdccd it is. It will he available for ice hockey, recreational skating, ice dancing and of course curling. In the early fall or spring, the four tennis courts will be an added boon for our sotnetimes overcrowded court needs. The building is also being designed with acoustics in mind so that concerts are a definite possibility. Prof. Kershner, athletic < ·ontinurd on Page 6

• -----•CiiOiiNII·IiiCQRDIENSl$, Wednesday, October 9, t 74 ..... z = a Page.2 ---------·-- -------- ' . ~i YOu·Said it ···-- ... '......-:=:::::=~~ ' Editors-in-chief .................... , ........ Chris O'Connor · Rob Mondschein Culture Editor ..................................... Peter Sobol Features Editor .................................. John Scheer _Sports Editors ............................... Kevin Crawford Bill Underhill Photo Editors .................................... Bob Johnson Ellen Radack Cliff Langweiler Graphic Arts Editor ....... , .................. Bob Johnson Managing Editor. .......................... Doug Carpenter Contributing Editors ., ............. , ............. .Judy Dein Fred Weinstein Historical Editor ...................................... Bi·U Talis Business Manager ............................... Jennifer Port National Advertising ......................... .Steve Kelley Subscriptions Editor ..... , .. , ....................... ~Lisa Tietz Staff: Audrey Rothchild, Janet Chapman, Lee Schwartz, Doug Carpenter, Phyllis Edelman, Rick Ford, Bill Plaus, Sam Hughes CONCORDIENSIS is pQblished every Wednesday by the • .student IJOdy of Union College, Old Gym Han, S!!heneetady, N.Y. Publications Office: The Jewish World Publications, 771 State St., • .Scbenectady, N.Y. !2307 (346-2356) •. E~te.-ed in the S~henectady Post Office as Second Class Matter. Subs~iption Rate 35. cents per · copy. $8~00 a year delivered anywhere in the United States. Deadline for copy is Tuesday 5:00 P.M. some advice for pres. bonner President Bonner has called for this college to go on the offensive; to create \a new college rededicated to the ideals that gave it birth.\ We applaud this goal, and wis,h to become part of the machinery which will effect it. We offer our own efforts, time and trouble to the achievement of those high ideals enunciated by Dr. Bonner in his several recent speeches. We also .suggest that the entire student body is too· talented a group of people to be left idle. Just as new sources of support must be solicited from without the college, so also mu-st new sources of student support and involvement be solicited from within the college. To inspire more students, the goals and ideals of this administration must be spelled out in more specific terms. if students understand what they can ao, then perhaps mere students will exhibit an interest in participating. The Student Body should be utilized to a far greater extent. This is not to criticize those students now involved; it is only to say that more students ought to be. In this way, can this , powerful tao! be most effectively brought to bear against the nroblems facing Union. wrong . - . ' - ·- - . 1m·press1on. 1 I<.:ditors Concordiensis: It is unft>rtunate that one of your writers, in his first article for CoilcQrdiensisj found it necessary tfl deliberately misrepresent fact to have a basis for an article l>y a fteshman. I refer to the article by Dan Rosenbaum. Contrary to 1\fr. Rosenbaum's article, he did hear from various individuals and Qffices at Union between the time of his acceptance in March and the telephone call he sayshe made in August, When Mr. Rosenbaum paid his admission .deposit he received an ackn<Jwledgement from Mr. Shupe. Tlmt occurred in the first few days ef May. Toward the end of June Mr. Rosenbaum received from me a letter of welcome and a request for va·rious information, as did all n\embers of the Class of 1978. The Housing Office included. ·information and room reservation material in that mailing, too. On July 22 Dean Wylen wrote to all mernb.ers of the freshman class, Mr. Rosenbaum included, giving infonnation about the Freshman Elective program. wit:h a reply for indic11-ting course preferences. At some time early in the summer the Health Service also wrote to. all freshmen. I can only assume that the reported telephone conversation took place prior to my communication to aU students the later part of August and the l\ res hm an Orientation information mailing of August 22nd. I shoul<l like to dispute what Mr. Rosenbaum says took place in that telephone conversation, if, indeed, it was with someone in my office. We knew since early June that College would start on September 25th and that freshmen would be asked to arrive for Orientation on September 21st. That information was regularly given to all who inquired, and there is no reason to believe our reply to Mr. Rosenbaum was any different. However, if Mr. Rosenbaum asked for details of the Participants in Saturday's panel discussion, \The Resurgence of the Independent College in the Coming Decade , - steering committee passes proposals by· BILL UNDERHILL and LAURIE COHEN President Broomes called the meeting to order at 4:30 ort October I, 1974; As soon as 'the 111 inutes of the last meeting were approved, Steve Wayne was recognized and, acting as chairman of the Elections Committee, he asked for additional persons to man the poUs. during elections. President • Broomes then proposed that the Steering Committee give Steve Wayne five additional persons. Three of which must be freshman. l t was passed unanimously. The next order of business was the problem of clubs who are receiving budgets in excess of their worth to the col1ege community. It was decided that the Conduct ·Committee would keep ali eye on the cost-benefit ratios of all dubs through~ut the year. The issue .of insufficent lighting was not dealt with at the titne because a Representative from the Women's Caucus failed to appear. CORRECTIONS · On. page l of the last issue Thomas Wutts' byline was inadvertently left oft or the 8SA article. ' Due to a typegraphical error in the artiele \Rebirth\ by Judy Dein, Ms. Lois Timms was quoted as saying that Orientation program, he would have been directed to the Office of the Dean of St~,:~dents, since my office was not informed of the program outline. I can conceive that Mr. Rosenbaum might' have been t·old to ·be pa~ient about -receipt of the Orientation mailing, as it Was about to be sent. l can not believe, , however, that someone in the Office of the Dean ofS tudents would te'n him .. not to call back,'' any more than one of my staff would giv~ that admonition. . Sincerely, Calvin G. Schmidt Registrar o.ut of· womb ~ditors, Concordiensis: , Most of us have heard Union referred to as a \womb.'' Thi!i strikes me as being an accurate :utalogy for the following reasons: ( I ) Both are secure protected places to grow and develop one's potential without threat frorn the outside world; (2) Both provide all the basic needs for that growth, the most important factor being time; (3) Both are cut off from the harsher realities of the world. ~ome students, including myself, have ventured out of this womb (Le. col~ege) to participate in the surrounding social nexus. ln doing this I believe we have profited greatly by the increased under~tanding both of the world and our place in. it. We have learned by doing, rather than by memorizing. · Although there exist many opportunities for outside involvement, few students take advantage of them. I believe that this is in part due to the lack of information available to students concerning community activities. I am interested in forming an organization which will provide the ·requisite information, possibly creating sotne of the opportunities. ,If you have worked in the community or are interested .in doing so, please call me at 377- IJ558 or see Mrs. Marra in the Students Activities Office. Try. Who knows, maybe you can even get credit for it. Sincerely. Bob Cabie '75 deserve p·raise Editors, Concordiensis: We would like to publicly recognize the Fox House Resident Advisors for their· ~uperlative performance ~while under the intense pressure of last week's bomb scares. Their alert a1\d caring reaction to the unusual situation was one in which all of us may take pride, and for which all of us should be thankful. him to meet people lo'r'ith different ideals and opin~ons, then _why does .i ~ .~elect ;people from £he same geographical- area? The corninent that you c~t,n meet peo.ple with two different viewpoints from opposite sides ef Schenectady is ~. fallacy in the light that someone from the West ' could help change the college toWard~ a more cosmopolitan atmosphere. It is necessary for a college to go out and seek a _national student body. A school is fiving in an illusion if it feels that it is providing the students with a well rounded background under such conditions. The' fact is the school puts very little effort into actually goin8 out and trying to make a 'name' for itself. If Union put half the effort th.at' comparable institutions put into going (!,.Yt and visiting high schools and prep schools We are sure that they could vastly improve theit caliber of students. Mr. Shupe also commented that the class of '78 was the \brightest c·Iass in re.cent history.\ The criteria that he used to base this comment on was the high school rank of the freshman class. How can one use high school rarlk to judge the intelligence of any class? Depending upon what school one went tp, class rank could mean you were the creme de Ia creme of a class or the creme de Ia crap. One quarter of the class get less than 500 on the verbal SAT! It may be true tha:t .SAT's are going down all ever, the country, b.ut figures such as these are horrible for a: school that supposed to. he as good as this one. Another colnment frequently made by defenders of the admissions policy is that Union i·eceives a lot of· New York applications because' ·of the New York Regents schol~rsh.ip program. This may well be so, but it hardly is an excuse for the :1.rlmissions policy. W'hy is Union's place as a private institt1tien to cater to those who wish education. funded by the state? If they want a state education they should go to a lc'tate school. I he aqmissions poucy or umon college leaves much to be desired. Hut when the admissions director makes a comment like \that it is not an entir.ely bad thing to have , strong applicants from one geographic area\ then we think he is making a mole hill out of a mountain. Two Foreigners Charles C. Holleman Peter Berick film com-mittee Respectfully yours,,, Bruce D.ownsbrough The Film Committee, respectful of the advantages to Public Relations would like to pass along the following information: \ I. Qf the three positions open Bruce McLaughlin long islandville EditQrs,. Concordiensis: . on the-committee, we are seeking an U·pperclassman specifically Welcome · to UCNC (Union interested in the area of publicity College or Nassa.u County) for both 'Veekertd and midweek Pertaining to your last article in films .. · _ Concordy concern.irtg the 2. Film Committee movies are geographical non-distribution of ordered _independently ·of other the class of '78, are you trying to groups · and individuals. Any s~y that Union College may be other· individual or group changing its official language to interested in ordering 1'ihn$ Longuylandese (or whatever they should check to see that we do speak in THECrtY and o.n THE net overlap in ·Otir choices of ISLAND)? We ,.fail to. see just films. how this sc·hool thinks it can even 3. With regard to this try t<> project the image of a weekend's confusidn, all Film nationally recog!lized school if it Committee movies will be shown does not have a cross section of unless the.re · is an official students. If this school is trying to announcement from a metnber of project the image of being able to the Comlttittee. broaden one's horizons by getting 4. The corrected schedule for the rest of out Fall term movies black and white men corasider nppears below: black women to be prostitutes. October 121 13 .. Executi\'e The stateinent should read that ·. Action; Ooto'ber 19. 20· - lnga; only white men consider black October. 26j 27 .. · • Monkey women to be prostitutes. . . \\· ·' PU.!i.iJt.!~$$ •. R.~:efer Madness. fage~

Page2 CONCORD/ENSIS, Wednesday, October 9, 1974 ..... 5 >d- 2 :1\\'7\: ? 7 you said it ;g;;g:;; 22 -- =; Editors-in-chief. ............................ Chris O'Connor Rob Mondschein Culture Editor ..................................... Peter Sobol Features Editor .................................. John Scheer Sports Editors .............................. Kevin Crawford Bill Underhill Photo Editors ................................... Bob Johnson Ellen Radack Cliff Langwei.Ier Graphic Arts Editor .......................... Bob Johnson Managing Editor. ......................... Doug Carpenter Contributing Editors ............................. Judy De in Fred Weinstein Historical Editor ...................................... Brll Talis Business Manager ............................. Jennifer Port National Advertising .......................... Steve KeUey Subscriptions Editor ............................... Lisa Tietz Staff: Audrey Rothchild, Janet Chapman, Lee Schwartz, Doug Carpenter, Phyllis Edelman, Rick Ford, Bill Pia us, Sam Hughes CONCORDIEN~IS is published every Wednesday by the student body of Umon College, Old Gym Hall, Schenectady, N.Y. Publications Office: The Jewish World Publications, 771 State St., Schenectady, N.Y. 12307 (346-2356). Entered in the Schenectady Post Oftice as Second Class Matter. Subscription Rate 35 cents per copy. $8.00 a year delivered anywhere in the United States. Deadline for copy is Tuesday 5:00 P.M. some advice for pres. bonner President Bonner has called for this college to go on the offensive; to create \a new college rededicated to the ideals that gave it birth.\ We applaud this goal, and wish to become part of the machinery which will effect it. We ~ffer our own efforts, time and trouble to the achievement of those high ideals enunciated hy Dr. Bonner in his several recent speeches. We also suggest that the entire student body is too talented a group of people to be left idle. Just as new sources of support must be solicited from without the college, so also mu-st new sources of student support and involvement be solicited from within the college. To inspire more students, the goals and ideals of this administration must be spelled out in more specific terms. If students understand what they can do, then perhaps more students will exhibit an interest in participating. The Student Body should be utilized to a far greater extent. This is not to criticize those students now involved~ it is only to s_ay that more students ought to be. In this way, can this powerful tool be most effectively brought to bear against the oroblems facing Union. wrong ·• \ lmpreSSIOii 1 Editors Concordiensis: It is unfortunate that one of your writers, in fu.is first article for Concordiensis, found it necessary tP deliberately misrepresent fact to have a basis for an article by a lr<eslunan. I refer to the article by Dan Resenbaum. Contrary to Mr. Rosenbaum's article, he did hear from various individuals and ·offices at Union between the time of his acceptance in March and the telephone call he says he made in August. When Mr. Resenbaum paid his admission deposit he received an acknowledgement from Mr. Shupe. That occurred in tl1e first few days of May. I oward the end of June Mr. Rosenbaum received from me a letter of welcome and a request for various information, as did all members of the Class of 1978. lhe Housing Office included information and room reservation material in that mailing, too. On July 22 Dean Wylen wrote to all members of the freshman class, Mr. Rosenbaum included, giving information about the Freshman Elective program, with a reply for indicating course preferences. At some time early in the summer the Health Service also wrote to all freshmen. I can only assume that the reported telephone conversation took place prior to my communication to all students the later part of August and the l·reshman Orientation information mailing of August 22nd. I should like to dispute \\>hat Mr. Rosenbaum says took place in that telephone conversation, if, indeed, it was with someone in my office. We knew since early June that College would start on September 25th and that freshmen would be asked to arrive for Orientation on September 21st. That information v.as regularly given to all who inquired, and there is no reason to believe our reply to Mr. Rosenbaum was any different. However. if Mr. Rosenbaum asked for details of the Participants in Saturday's panel discussion, \The Resurgence of the Independent College in the Coming Decade \ · steering committee passes proposals by BILL UNDERHILL and LAURIE COHEN President Broomes called the meeting to order at 4:30 on October I, 1974. As soon as the minutes of the last meeting were approved, Steve Wayne was recognized and, acting as chairman of the Elections Committee, he asked for additional persons to man the polls during elections. President Broomes then proposed that the Steering Committee give Steve Wayne five additional persons. Three of which must be freshman. It was passed unanimously. The next order of business was the problem of clubs who are receiving budgets in excess of their worth to the college community. It was decided that the Conduct Committee would keep an eye on the cost-benefit ratios of all clubs throughout the year. The issue of insufficent lighting was not dealt with at the time because a Representative from the Women's Caucus failed to appear. CORRECTIONS · On page 1 of the last issue Tbomas Watts' byline was inadvertently left off of the BSA article. Due to a typographical error in the artide \Rebirth\ by Judy Dein, Ms. Lois Timms was quoted as saying that -- ;_- 12 §5¥ Orientation progr.am, he would have been directed to the Ot;fice of the Dean of StudeAts, since my office was IWt informed of the program outline. 1 can conceive that Mr. Rosenbaum might. have been told to be patient about receipt of the Orientation mailing, as it was about to be sent. I can not believe, however, that ~omeone in the Office of the Dean of Students would tel'l him \not to call back,\ any more than one of my staff would give thM admonition. Sincerely, Calvin G. Schmidt Registrar out of womb Editors, Concordiensis: Most of us have heard Union referred to as a \womb.\ This st·rikes me as being afl accurate <iitalogy for the following reasons: (I) Both are sec11re protected places to grow aRd develop one's potential without threat from the outside world; (2) Both provide all the basic needs for that growth, the most important factor heing time; (3) Both are cut off from the harsher realities of the world. Some students, including myself, have ventured out of this womb (i.e. college) to participate in the surrounding social nexus. In doing this I believe we have profited greatly by the increased understanding both of the world and our place in it. We have learned by doing, rather than by memorizing. 1\lthough there exist many opportunities for outside Involvement, few students take advantage of them. I believe that this is in part due to the lack of information available to students concerning com111unity activities. I am interested in forming an organization which will provide the requisite information, possibly creating some of the opportunities. If you have worked in the community or are interested in doing so, please call me at 377- lJ55!i or sec Mrs. Marra in the Students Activities Office. Try. Who knows, maybe you can even get credit for it. Sincerely, Bob Cable '75 deserve praise Editors, Concordiensis: We would like to publicly recognize the Fox House Resident Advisors for their ~uperlativc performance while under the intense pressure of last week's bomb scares. Their alert and caring reaction to the unusual ~ituation was one in which all of us may take pride, and for which all of us should be thankful. Respectfully yours, Bruce Downsbrough Bruce McLaughlin long islandville Editors, Concordiensis: Welcome to UCNC (Union College of Nassau County) Pertaining to your last article in Concordy concerning the geographical non~istribution of the class of '78, are you trying to say that Union College may be changing its official language to Longuylandese (or whatever they ~peak in THE CITY and on THE ISLAND)? We .fail to see just how this school thinks it can even try to project the image of a nationally recognized school if it does not have a cross section of students. If this school is trying to project the image of being able to hroaden one's horizons by getting black and white men consider black women to be prostitutes. The statement should read that only white men consider black women to be prostitutes. = l~im to meet people with different ideals and opinions, then why does it select people from the same geographical area? The commem.t that you can meet people with two different viewpoints from opposite sides of Schenectady is a fallacy in tile light that someone froth the West could help change the college towards a more cosmopolitan a tm osp here. It is necessary for a college to go out and seek a national student body. A school is living in an illusion if it feels that it is providing the students with a well rounded backgrouNd under ~ttch conditions. The' fact is the :.cl1ool puts very little e~fort into actually going out and trying to make a 'natne' for itself. If Union put half the effort that comparable institutions put into going out and visiting high ~chools and prep schools we are ~ure that they could vastly improve their caliber of students. Mr. Shupe also commented that the class of '78 was the \'brightest class in recent history.\ The criteria that he used to base this comment on was the high ::-ochool rank of the freshman class. How can one use high school rank to judge the intelligence of any class? Depending upon what school one went to, class rank could mean you were the cretne de Ia creme of a class or the CI'etne de Ia crap. One quarter of the class got less than 500 on the verbal SAT! It may be true that SAT's are going down all over the country, but figures such as these are horrible for a school that supposed to be as good as this one. Another comment frequently made by defenders of the admissions policy is that Union receives a lot of New York applications because of the New York Regents scholarship program. This may well be so, but it hardly is an excuse for the :Himissions policy. Whv is Union's place as a private institution to cater to those who v..ish education funded by the state? If they want a state education they should go to a state school. I lle aamtsstons policy or u mon college leaves much to be desired. Hut when the admissions director makes a comment like \that it is not an entirely bad thing to have strong applicants from one ,!.!eographic area\ then we think ht: is making a mole hill out of a mountain. lwo Foreigners Charles C. Holleman Peter Berick film committee The Film Committee, respectful of the advantages to Pub lie Relations would like to pass along the following information: I. Of the three positions open on the Committee, we are seeking an upperclassman specifically interested in the area of publicity for both weekend and midweek films. 2. Film Committee movies are ordered independently of other groups and individuals. Any other individual or group interested in ordering \mms should check to see that we do not overlap in our choices of films. 3. With regard to this weekend's confusion, all Film Committee movies will be shown unless there is an official announcement from a member of the Committee. 4. The corrected schedu Jc for the rest of our Fall term movies appears below: October 12, 13 Executive Action; October 19, 20 - htga; October 26, 27· - Monl<ey Buliin.ess, Reefer Madness. ' .: , .I { l .-.;\ ., . , .·, i ; \ ' .. ' : ' .. ., Page3

f t e. p y 0 a n k a n is m of Page3 \ . (::ONCORD!ENS/S; Wednesday, October 9, 1974 Le Pitz Le Pitz Le Pitz Le Pitz Le Pitz CABARET Le Pitz Le· Pit:z Le Pitz Le Pitz Le Pitl . / ..,. Ladies and gentlemen. the Cabaret h·as returned. Yes, Cabaret is · \\ alive and well and eperating in the:.room across the hall from fheir location last year. It's new, improved, vitamin enr.iched; offering bigger and better entertainment than ever before. And the food ~nd drink will be outrageoUsly differ:ent froin anything you can imagine. As we. 'all know, Cabaret began. last year. It evolved from the ·' Advance(! Direct·ing class, taught hy the ul;>iquitous Barry Smith. At first, Cabaret was smaH, unknown, s.urviving only by the diligent self- sacrifice of a stolid band of volunteers. Sinc.e then, due to the tremendous popularity Cabaret achieved 'last year, it has grown to the status of a full-fledged Student Activity funded by the Student Tax Cotnll'iittee, operating by the diligent self-.sacrifice of a stolid band of vorunteers. Opening night for this year~s Cabaret season will be Thursday, October 10 at 9:00 PM. A paltry $1.25 ad'mits you to three hours of music, food, dtink,. movies, and mainstage entertainment. A veritable garden of delight fot the senses. This is only the beginning. The Cabaret is a place where anything can happen. You, too, can have a hand in making Union College H:istory. The Cabaret needs diligent, seu·~sacrificing, stolid volunteers to :work in every facet of their operation. People are needed to wait on tables (.Unieycle riders needed}.. People are needed to work in the kitchen. ,(organic lab experience not necessary). People are needed to h~lp with maintenance (prerequisite: Modern American Pushbrooms). People are needed to assist in the auditions .(on both sides of the microphone). If .any of these opportunities grab you, leave a note addressed to th~ person in charge ·of your area of interest en the bulletin board outside the Cabaret room. Cabaret is charmingly directed by Leaping Lee Bloomn:,>sen, The kitchen is expertly epicured :by Mozz~rrella Mike Sherer. Publicity is adroitly overseen by Jolly Jerry Coleman. Auditions aFe generousLy judged by ·Terrific Tim · Doyle. The waiters and waitresses are gregariously guided by aoundng Se.rnar:d Carey. . · So dorr't miss the epoch-making opening night. And r.emember: Cabaret wants you! Le Pitz Program I David Lederkramer Judy Kottke Becky- White Diane Deoc;on Mike ·Pu.rcell I ,. · · · · · I 1 Rich Stra~sman • p1ano guitar vocals ·vocal duo .. pzano !J-10 & 11-12 10--11 & 12-1

e p s 0 n )[ ., ~ .; ., ' • ) ·I \ :t ., .,, \ ; :1 ,, :! 1: '! I I .: ,:' ~ ,, .[ ~ ' : ., <~~ l l j··· ' ·~ I ' i 'I \ . i i i L ., i i ' ' ' ; \ I ,. ' ' ·' '' ' ' ' ' : 1 '~~ . ' I ,, I . i ' I '• I· \ Page3 CONCO.RDJENS/S, Wednesday, October 9, 1974 Le Pitz Le Pitz Le Pitz Le Pitz Le Pitz CABARET Le Pitz Le ~Pitz Le Pitz Le Pitz Le Pltz , Ladies awd gentlemeN, the Cabaret has retumed. Yes, Cabaret is - alive and v..ell and operating in the, room across the hall from their location last year.lt\ new, improved, vit-amin enriched; altering bigger and better entertainment than ever before. And the food and drink will be outrageously ditferent from anythi•Rg you can imagine. A~ we all knm\. Cabaret began last year. It evolved from the 1\d\anced Direcong class. taught hy the ubiquitous Barry Smi,th. At fir~t. Cabaret \Ia~ ~mall. unknown. survivi11g only by the diligent ~elf­ sacrifice of a stolid band of volunteers. Since then, d uc to the tremendom popularity Cabaret achieved last year. it has grown to the status of a full-fledged StudeHt Activity funded hy the Student Tax Committee, operating by the di·ligent self-sacrifice of a stolid hand ot volunteers . Opening night for this year's Cabaret season will be Thursday, October 10 at 9:()0 PM. A paltry $1.25 admits you to three hoHs of music. food, drink, movies. and mainstage entertainment. A 'veritable garden of delight for the senses. This is only the beginning. The Cabaret is a place where anything can happen. You. too, can have a ha11d in making Union College History. The Cabaret needs diligent, self-sacrificing, stolid volunteers to work in every fac:d of their operation. People are needed to \\a it on tables (Unicycle ridus needed). Pcopk are needed to work in the btchen (organic lab experience not necessary). People are needed to help with maintemance (prerequisite: Modern American Pushbrooms). People are needed to assist in the auditions (on both sides of the microphone). If any of these opportunities grab you, leave a note addressed to the person in charge of your area of interest on the bulletiN board outside the Cabaret room. Cabaret is charmingly directed by Leaping Lee Bloomrosen, The kitchen is expertly epicured by Mozzarella Mike Sherer. Publicity is adroitly overseen by Jolly Jerry Coleman. Auditions are generously judged by Terrific Tim Doyle. The waiters and waitresses arc gregariously guided by Bouncing Bernard Carey. So don't miss the epoch-making opening night. And remember: Cabaret wants you! Le Pitz Program I David Lederkramer . 9-10 plano & Judy Kottke guitar 11-12 Becky White vocals 10-11 Diane Deaqon vocal duo & Mil<.e Purcell 12-1 I Rich Strassfnan . plano ;-} $.' ~-- I

Page4 CONCORDIENSI~, Wednesday, October,9, 1974 Distinguished Union Member Missing by BILL TALIS 1 his K.i the second in .a series of artiCles about th~ history and near• history of Union College. Time is the great destroyer of history, and we hope to fill the .gaps with fact and fantasy providing insight abot,~t \the way we were.\ 'h·is office, or had ever seen it. Martin had assumed leadership of Union College at about the same time of the instrument's disappearance, Provost Willard F. E·nteman also said he knew nothing of its whereabouts, hut Despite interruptive displacements, the penis remained safely stored in the Geology Department Attic until the College's decision to terminate that department. Although it was rumored that the instrmnent was removed to Brockport with the chairman of that department, there is no substantiation of these claims. Union College is fortunate to have maintained an alumni who have contributed in diverse areas for the advancement of Union College. Those familiar with the College's history acknowledge the generous support and distinctive contributions by individuals such as Henry Schaffer, who, it is reported, like so many individuals relentlessly pursuing education, 1net his wife in a library and therefore concluded, \the more libraries, the more martiages.\ The Fox Find added, \I'd like tQ get my hands Hislop relates that t:he Whale's on it.\ One lady at the library • an· · Penis \was discovered in the true mployee of the College since :sense of the term by the late Contemporary protocol dictates the more .orthodox dona-tions of financial support. Out of Union's deep tradition, however, have come contributions from alumni, reflecting their unique life styles and avocational interests. The 'Idol stands as the most visibly prominent of donations, a 15th century statue of Far~ Eastern origin; now resting behind the Alumni Gym: But the gift whiCh- was most indicative of the donor's character, or perhaps uniquely reflected sentiments for his alma mater was the Whale's Penis. Dr. Fox, distinguished historian and stately gentleman. \And what, Mr. Hislop might THIS b ?\ e. 1939, said she never heard of its existence, but was nevertheless am. used by the ·story. Pearson Penis Theory President Dixon Ryan Fax during his .preinaugural tour of the campus in 1934.,\ Hislop, who was researching N ott's life for his book at the time, was requested to conduct the new president, also a historian, through Uriion C oUege buildings. Hislop succinctly depicted Fox's discovery: \The day was tropical, and the Poctor was dressed for i.t in an 'ilnmaculate white silk' sait. When we came to the Old Chapel, the tour I had planned was sche.puled to end with a climb up to th!'! then geology laboratories on\ the 'second floor. When asked what was on the third floor 1 told the new president that it contained early college records: trustee's' minute books, treasurer;s records, and odds. and ends of memorabilia contributed by · alumni, including the Assyrian Tablets (now at Yale, alas). Nothing would do but we put the ladder in place, and ascend. I ·eyed that white silk suit with misgiving, knowing what a dust bin we were going into, but historians, pursuing history, are not to be s-top.ped. The place was dirtier than I had remembered, but the bas-reliefs seemed to be worth it. lhe sc;ent of history was strong, and Dr. Fo~ · was obviously .enjoying hi.mself. Looking behind the As~yrian Reliefs the Doctor came on the whale's penis, a gift no doubt, of sorne early alumnus (seafa,ring?), a contribution to the ' 1 scientifie cabinet\ of considerable standing. \By now the immaculate white suit was as gray as the wrinkled, leathery object the Doc~or was trying to lift. - Question, and answer, and abrupt conclusion: 'And what, Mr. Hislpp, might THIS be?' I-n such a situation, there was no sense in beating around the bush. 'That, Sir, is a whale's penis.' The president, Who was holding it at arm 1 s length for better observation, dropped it, I must sa:)', with violence. Soended what ~ had W!lnted to be an inspirational tour of the campus.\ The present location of the whale's penis remains one of the hest maintained secrets on the • Union College Campus. Mr .. Hislop's hypothesis provides the best ex,planation: ••r suspect, if a ~earch was made of certain 'goat t\ooms or fraternity tneeting places, there woul(l be that membra e~,tuaordina.ire. In certa:in primitive societies, of course, it would be made an object of worship; what its function is now; boggles tlle imagination;• NF~XT WE.EI<:: The Wha'le's-Eye · View Why Whales Face Extinction Today,., The search for the \Holy Graille,\ as it is affectionately know, began under my auspices as editor or Concordiensis in the Spring of 1974. Every fact was to be uncovered, and no stone would remain unturned until Concordy had unfolded the true origin and present location of the Whale's penis. This endeavor terminated with a certain frustration, howeve~; .. as its location is still unknown. \i:ve Feet High Obt: ning an accurate descript m of the instrument posed o.ificulties for there a-re no known photographs of the Whale's Penis, an indication of the ·spirit in which the Cofllstock Act was enforced. One alumnus, class of 1928, who wishes to remain anonymot~s, described the instrument as simply, ''a wha-le of a penis;; but the best description of the \Holy Graille\ is provided by Codman Hislop; historian and author of the book, Eliphalet Nott. According to Hislop, the whale's penis is \approximately five feet high in its stuffed and so erect position.\ \·Whale& might have been more nurnerous·today,\ wrote Jonathan Pearson Hl, Director of Alumni ' Affairs, \if Admiral Alexander J. MacDougall, Class of I 853, had not run over four of them on a transatlantic run in one of the early steamships. The admiral thought e''i-wugh of Union to send his alma mater ,the stuffed penis of one of his victims.\ Pearson noted these facts in 1972, surely with a smile creeping over. his face as he added,. \This·· migJrty instrument has been locked away since the change in Union's stu- dent body,\ in 1970. Last Tangle in Oval· Office the Disappearapce in 1965 A survey of campus personnel revealed, however, that the whale's penis had not been seen since 1965. Fortner Union President Harold C. Martin denied possession of the penis, and emphatically stated that he ne:v~r used it as a paper weight in· The Whale's Penis was . originally displayed in the Nott Memorial which served as a museum prior to 1930, where ~otne suspect it was used as a doorstop. With the beginning of the Great Depression, however, · .the Instrument was locked away in the attic over the Geology Building, now the present site of Campu~ Sec!Jtity. During the - 1940's, several fraternities had gained possession of the penis, to utilize it in midnight processionals to the grave of Eliphalet Nntt. by MATT BRIEF and DAVID EILBOTT Washington - AugUst 8th \Well derry, all good things '!must. pass.,. r ' · \Too true, Dick, ·too trtle,\ \I should have btt gged them all. Dean, Magruder, everyone in the whole damn country. 2 W,O'Oo,OOO taps and the nation would have been better off.\ \You wouldn't have to tap me, I can be trusted, Dick.\' \E. Howard Hunt told me that once. He deserted me, McCord deserted me, Dean and Magruder deserted me. Hell, even H.R. and John want pardons or they'll · open up. Everyone's deserted Ine.\ Dick pulled two· steel mar!Hes out of his coat pocket and gently rolled them in his hands. \. d f ' . . . ~ \And then Butterfield told them about the tapes. He helped . them steal the tapes. THEY STOLE THE TAPES! 1 WANT MY TAPES BACK! I PLAY THEM FOR PAT AT NidHT!\ \The attempt o.f Mr. Jonathah jJearson 10 un\ uta' instrument with my research into the l(fe of Eliphalet 'Nott hints at a stature for that notable American far . ~greater than·any·hereto/or con 1 omplated,\ - CodmanHislop. \Calm yourself, Dick.\ Dick was sobbing hysterically. \Now you're taking over. You're my last hope.\ \You can trust rne, Dick.\ \Spiro said that to me once.\ Dick furiously rol1ed , the steel marbles. rhe door to the Oval Office opened. A man with a physician's hag entered. \Ah Doctor, sit down. Is cveryth ing arranged?\ \Yes sir. Everything is-planned, the clot, the phlebitis, the hospital. Everything. You can trust me.\ I ! ' \Elliot Richardson told me that O.•e's· M_.,SIIop ..... ~··. (ciC)WDI(hrn Sca.~y) I once.\ Gerry. . \I'm still mad at you, Doc,. for Billy Graham Joo:l<;ed at Gerry. being unable to control my sweat · '\Who are you?\ Then he charged glands . from sweating on TV. out of the room ranting Doc, if. I have to testify at one something about his .tax returns trial, Gerry has told me he'll ram for the ne~t year. socialized medicine down this \I'm worried, ..Gerry.\ nation's throat faster than yo11 \No sweat, Dick. I get the job, can say Matcus Welby.\ you get the pardon.'' \1'11 do it, Doc. £'11 do anything Rabbi Baruch Korff strolls Dick says.\ leisurely into · the Oval Office \G d d· g er boy· \ happily munching on a BL T. . 00 0 ' •· . The .physician left, tre.m bling. \Hello Dickie. What's new ' h · ' I ?\ ''I can;t go to prison, Gerry. I'm Wtt my mam menc 1. too good looking. They'll send me \It's over, Rabbi. I'm calling it to Attica and I'll 0e raped by all quits tomorrow.\ the fag prisoners because I'm so \You're going ,1, let that hands~Jme and good-looking.,. nebbish take over the countrY!\ \Dick Ted Kennedy m~y fight \He's .sitting right nekt to you; the pardon.\ Rabbi.\ \KENNEDY KENNEDY!\·- \Oh -~ ·sorry, Gerry.\ Rabbi Dick pulled a tape recorder out of Korff stood up and said Kaddish his drawer and placed a cassette for Dick. \By the way, Dickele, in it. could I use the phone? I've got to \The only tape they haven't call my accountant- and tell him taken. I always play it when I I'm going to have to file a tax hear about Kennedy, It soothes return form next year.'' me.\ \Use a pay phone, Rabbi. I The tape was- a recording of know Jaworski's tapped my Dick singing Bridge' Over .phones,\ said Dick, the marbles Troubled Water. rolling in his hand. Billy Graham stormed into the As the Rabbi left, Tricia Nixon Oval Office. rah into the office and threw \God bless you, Dick. The herself -at ·Dick's feet, weeping Lord is with you, Jesus is with wildly. \Don't die, Daddy,. don't you, and the Virgin Mary is with- die.'' you, and, most importantly, Bebe \l'in not going to die, Trish, Rebozo is with you, so at least just quit the job.'' you won't be short on cash.\ \That;s much Worse than dying! \I'm with you, too;\ muttered They told me you ha(J a blood Continued on Page 11 PETER PAUSE RESTAURANT ~a Student Discount\ Mon.-Sat. 5:30-7:30 535 NOTT ST. ,. For over 5() yrs. the o'dest lunch in the area has been serving 1st . Prize hotdogs with an original . sa~tce. Also try our dinners ;_ a diffei'entone eyery night. '715 ALBANY ST. SCHENECTADY 317·65110 7 Days 11 Week Jl'ri. & Sat. lill 4;00 AM I ~ltr :Say 'l I ~l'S': #'iln .Brc ;rna da\ inn J:nll ~ac [ flee IJP ant a:ls[ ineJ ass1 E say ang l)el shlt th Sy ap Pr inf Of

for :, I Jed an s.\ :he .he he · 1r. he 'a >at ng tat dn it of W; ye !W '· s e v 1 CONCORDIENSIS, Weanesday;_ October 9, 1974 Page5 Get Those Punks All About the Pipers by JACK PlTNEY Oeath Wish is the latest target of liberal-chic fihn critics who regard 2 !toost every crime. movie as a· commercial for fascism. Bewa.re, they :Say-, This film will turn its audience into a mob -of gun-toting maniacs. !Baloney. ~Like l)il'ty Harry and Walking Tail before it, Dellth Wish is simply 2 sl1oot-em,.up Western in modern <dress. And like most Westerns, the ~·unn is a fantasy, not a commentary on the real world. Charles Brons<ln plays Paul Kersey, a latter-day vigilame who wages a <llie· :ma n.war on New York's. muggers. t0 avenge an attack on his wife and dt!,.lgh.ter. His~cowboy•style .38 is.quiek and accurate, never hitting any inn ocenf bystanders. His methods are effective: after he kills a Few ~u,.ggers, the city's crime rate drops faster than the Dow-Jones. I.Cs too IJad tltat things can't be that simple. Des .. plte its unreality, Death Wish is terrifically suspenseful, mainly llec:ause of diref;tot Michael Winner's shrewd sense of timing. He sets tiP his actiQn .sequences very sl'owly and deliberately, allowing ant i<;lpati:on to build U'htil the screen suddenly erupts in violence. He c:dso draws good performances from William Redfield as Bronson's ineffectual' s()n~in-law and Vincent Gardenia as a tough detective assigned to stop the killings. But the film teallY he longs to Charles Bronson. He doesn't have to· say nuch; his mere presence \suggests great strength and repressed a,n~er.. Nobody has to feel guilty <!bout identifying with his character in l)eath Wish. It's a matter of white hats and black hats - not hr:own · shirts. The l09th Tactical Air Group Honor Guard stationed at Schenectady County Airport led the march from the Science and Engineering building across campus to Memorial Chapel. Directly behind the honor guarcl, lain Maclean lifted his mace and the droning whine of bagpipes and rasping beat of the drums filled the air as the twelve .. man contingent of the Schenectady Pipe Band b,egan to play. Across the campus, dignitaries, adminis.tration, faculty, and .students marched to the \Hail and Laddee\ and \Scotland the Brave.\ Earlier in the morning, Pipe Major Joe Smith Was warming up· in the administration parking lot and consented. t:o .give this interview. The Pipe Band was formed in 1921 by a group of immigrants who fought for Scotland in WWI, un·der the name of \The Schenec~ady WW I Veterans Pipe Ba:nd.'' The costumes and the bagpipes, beside the distinct sound that comes from the band 1 , .is what draws the fascination of many people. The band wears ·the formal. dress known as Military Gordon, of the WW I regiment they originally came from, the Gordon Regiment. The detailed description of the pipers will be given. Starting from the top lies the busby, the tall feathery hat that marks a Scottish piper. If this was a less formal occasion; the band. wuld be wearing a beret-type hat called a Glenga.rey; Skipping face and neck, on the lapels lie an .insignia that marks the nationallity of the band. The Scottish wear a thistle, the Irish wear a shamrock and the British wear a Lioness. The Pipe Band's lapels wer\! not all filled with these ins.ignia. They had asked the Royal Canadian Mounties to supply them but were. unable to obtain any. A piece of material fringed at the ends. about four feet long is draped around the upper \torso and belted across its ends at a buttoned loop at the shoulder. This is called a \plade which Americans know as plaid, but Drones Pia de Pipers pujlproudly in procession. whic·h M.ajor Piper Joe Smith says is the first thing that he learned to pronounce correctly to keep in the favor of his more Scotophile members. He wears a tunic under the plade. Around his waist he wears several things. One is a sword belt for a special sword cal'led a Dirk. When one sees this da.ggerlike blade that's approximately one foot long, one sees visions of a battle on a fog covered Scottish plain. On the leather holder of the dirk are where knife and fork are held. Also around the waist over the kilt hangs the Sporrn. The Sporrn is the forerunner of the pocketbook, having a little compartment on the backside that holds the soldiers possessions. The white horsehair front has black tassels hanging on it which are indicative of the regiment. The kilt is a standard p ieee of garb noticed by all and is synonymous with Scots. Down to the spats and hosetops he wears on his feet\ almost completes the piper's claes. If a soldier was in desperate straights ahd had lost his dirk, he could reach down to his right sock and pull from it his Skeindubh, w l1ich is a sharp 3 inch knife. The bagpipe is also an interesting instrument. It consists of a leather bag in which air is hlown and forced through a double cane reed into tour sepa_rate exits. Three of these exits are through the long sticklike objects projecting from the top of the instrument and produce the continuous droning noise of the pipe. These are called drones. The fourth escape is through a pipe called a chanter Continued on Page 6 w h at ' 8 G 0 in g 0 n ·:·:·:·:·:·:·:-:·:I·:-:~.;:~~~~~~~~~~;~m~;~~;~t~~t~~t~·~timii ~;~;~:~:;:~:~:~:i:i:~:i:l:~~l:l:i:l:;:;:;::::::::: COFFEE HOUSES the Gym, 9 p.tJ}. 457-6923. Oci. ll: Goebel and Laing, Old Chapel, Union College, Oct. 12: Mixer Dance with Skidmore featuring 8:30 ]Un.,. SOe. \Roomful of Blues,\ Alumni Gym, Union College; 8:30 Oc-t. ll-13.: Andy Cohen, Caffe Lena, 47 Phila. St., p.m. Sil!ratoga Springs, 58.4-9789. FILMS Oc-t. 11 & 12; Frani Bell, c.onternporary folk. Eighth Oct. 10.: \Gulliver's Travels\ 8:30p.m., College of St. St.ep CQffee House, 14 Willet S.t., Albany, $2.00 for non- Rose, St. Joseph's Hall, 985 Madison Ave., Albany, 471- memflers. 5 I 02. - Oci. 13: biane Parker, folk, The Gate Coffeehouse, 37 Oct. 11: Film Series is sponsoring the film \Black Peter\ First St_, Troy, 7 p.m. 271-7880. Oct. ll: \Pat Garret & Billy the Kid\ at R.P.l., West MUSIC Hall, 7 & 9 p.m. :Oc;t. 10·13: \The Fantasticks\ The Schenectady Light Oct. 1.2 & 13: \Executive Action .. ,. SS016. Union, 7, 9, Opera Co .• 826 State St., 393-5732. II p.m., 50~~:. . , -Oc':t.l2: Concentus Musicus, Vienna. Memorial Chapel,- Oct. I~: \Sleuth\, College of St. Rose, St. Josephs Hall, t:niom College;S-:30 p.m.,'College community free. Otl1ers, 985 Madtson Av~., Albany, 8:30p.m .• ~ 4~1·~5102. Adults $3.50, Students $2.00. Oct. 14: ''Passton of Joan of Arc , Sktdmo~e. Ladd >Qc:t. 10: Findiav Cockrell Gershwin Piano, SUNY at ~all, Rm. 307, 584-5000. . AI ha&1y, Recital Hall, Perfo;mi~g A~ts Center: 4 p.m. Oct. 15: \Whats up Tiger Lily\ Union. SSOI6, 25¢ 7, 9, t{)cl!. 10·12: John Sim~>oi1, \'Mother's Wirte Emporium, U ·p·.m. R. P.l. Student Union Rathskellar, 8:30p.m. ·7()clt. :H: Concert: Skidmore Sonneteers, College Hall, Sk:idmot:e, $1.00. tOea .. 11: Skidmore Entertainment Night, Beer and a Hand~ s poilsorcd by Social Conlmlttee, Case Center · Comntons, Skidmore, 9:30 p.m. ;(kf. 12: R.P.L Orchestra -Cultural Center, R.P.I., 8 p.m. ~c~.12: Graham Central Station, SUNY at Albany, in THEAT,RE Oct. ll: Celebration Mime Theater with guest artists, SUNY at A:Jbany, Main Theater, 8:30 p.m., Tickets $3 or $2 with Student J.D. Oct. ll & 12: Experiniental Theater - Student directed, \'Improvisation of the Shepards Chamellion\ by lonesco, SUNY at Albany, Arena Theater (cap. 200), I-'ri.. 4:30, 7:30, 10:3(} p.m., Sat., 7:30 & 9 p.m. Free with a ticket distributed one hour before performance. Oct. 11-13: \Calm Down Mother\' by Megan Terry and \The Blind Men\ by Michel de Gheldrode, Skidmore, Regel}t St. Theatre, Fri. & Sat., 8 p.m., Sun., 2 p.m., Adm. 75¢ with Student J.D. Oct. 11)-26: \Mouse Trap\ by Agatha Christie, Schenectady Civic Players, 22 Church Street, Tickets $3 ~ $2.50. ART Oct. 10-Nov. 1: Darryl Hughto, paintings, at Russell Sage in the New Gallery of Schacht Fine Arts Center. Thru Oct. II: Larry Kagan, scUlpture, at R.P.I. Union 9 am-9 prri 270-6505. Thru Oct. IJ: Ray Andrews, paintings, Schenectady Central Library, Liberty and Clinton Sts., wkdays, I 0 a.m.-9 .p.m .. 372-4415. Thru Oct. 13: Ross Coates, semi-fig.urative paintings, Schenectadv Museum, Nott Terrace Hts., 372-3386. Oct. 14-i7: Sculpture of Cyprus, SUNY at Albany, lJ niversity Art Gallery, 457~6923. Thru Nov. 1: Aurora Harvey, prints, St. George's Church, No. Ferry St., Schenectady, in the Great Hall. I!;XHIBITS Thru Oct. 12: Edward$. Cu; •is' photographs of North American Indians, Lobby of Skidmore Library. Thru Oct. 13: Minerals found near SchenectadY, Schenectady Museum, N ott terrace H ts., 372-3386. · Thru Jan. 5: Larger than Life Microscope Exhibit, Schenectady Museum, Nott Terrace H ts., 372-3386. M.B .• A. RECRUITMENT SYRACUSE UNIVERSITY • Luxury Appointed Rooms •Affordable Rates 1!.e School of Management of Syracuse University, Srracuse, New York., will be interviewing interested applica111s. for the Masters in Business Administration Pr~grams on October 17, 9:00 A.M,-4:30 P.M. For further inforniation, inquire at the Platement ol' Career Counseling Office on campus. •Color TV 1616 S'f ATE STRE.ET Intersection R ts., 5 & 7 Next to Howard John::;ons Schenectady, N.Y. (518}370-3000 721ALTAMONT AVE. NO DELIVERY CHARGE WITH TWO PIZZAS WltD&UVIUI 1JN'ftt MIDNIGHT' Cd3'7~

' . ~ •' , , ~ tt CONCOR.DIEN$JS., Wedne$da~, ' -·· ,.. r ~ ' • / l,nauguration l ontinued ft()m rage 1 degrees. !he recipients were: Steven K. Bailey, LL.D., vice- president of the American Council pn Education; . Howard R. Bowen, LL.D.,. profe~sor of · Economics at Claremont Graduate School; and Mildred McAfe.e Horton, L.H .0 .; PFesident emerita of Wellesley College.. · After ~he presentations, Ms. Horton spoke, addressing 'her lively and witty comments to her association with B1,mner through the Board of Tr11stees .at the University of New Hampshire. The ceremony WafS fql!Qwed by a hincheon in the Field'house. The President of the University of the State of New Yorkand New York State Commissioner of Education, Ewa,td B. Nyquist, addressed the luncheon guests. Concerning the plight of small colleges, Comtnissioner Nyquist speculated that .. only ·small priVate colleges tllltt are better or more innovative than their public .coun·terparts ·will survive. According to f:tis criteria, Nyquist concluded that Union is \unquestionably an institution of the future.\ ·Grab for that Gusto Hopefully you will be reading this early enough in the day so as · to still have some of your sobriety left intact. As ,YOU must know, beer on Union College seems to play a major role in the life of each student. It may even be the only sociai life some people have, and I'm sure they prefer it that way. As a freshman, the abundance of beer is at first overwhelming, but after a few days one becom~s so accustomed to it that much disappointment is felt at • the knowledge that beer is not included on the meal plan. Most social activities seem to offer beer as an inducement to get· people to come.- This is especudly ,true of some of the fraternities on Lenox Road which would rarely see the rest of the studen.t body if it weren't for beer. Weekends, especially now during Rushing, are the biggest (and maybe the best) da,ys for having. a pitcher or two or thre:e or four ..... Probably the major advantage of weekend drinking is that you can sleep it off the next <fay and by about three that afternoon be ready to do it all over again. The largest dispenser of beer is the Rathskellar which a.Iways has beer on tap, a definite advantage over the bottled kiml. In an average week they use about 16- 2() kegs of beer, each keg equaling 30 pitchers. There are 56 ounces ia a pitcher and l'm not about to figure. out how m11ny ounces that is. altogether. The favorite beer is S<ihlitt, overshadowing Bud by about two to one, An average of fortv cases of bottled beer are sold each Week further adding to the· total consumption. Unfortunately, since the skellar doesn't open till, one must use his own resources if he wishes to itnbibe. Most of us are trying to ge.t out classes out of the way during those hours so the demand is not that great. Anotb.er big source of beer is the fraternities. Depending on many factors such as number of members,. social functions and other such considerations, the amount of beer used varies. What's a keg here or there anyway? ~· Towards the beginning of each week all the signs . go up announcing what parties will be he-ld that weekend. Now we are faced with the difficulty or deciding which one to ,go to, if not aU of them,. but usually after the s~cond age, getti11g back to the dorm seems lil<e an impossible · . task. One can choose what party to go- to only after .carefully weighing the factors involved. While to some it may be worth the walk to Lenox Road for a Beer and P.izza party, ,others prefer a Band partY closer by. Still others prefer to sta.{in their rooms and open up a nice c<:>ld six , ~ pack, which leads us to the thitd<: source of beer on campus. . There is really no way of ~stimatin:g the amount of beer ·that is t'Qck:ed away in the many individual refrigerators in each d~rm. One can only hap.pily daydream it-bout those lonely bottles waiting anxiously to be opened 'by their lUcky owners. .. Library Vandalism The inflUence of beer is evident wherever one walks, In the bookstore beer mu,gs and ste.ins are sold and in one fraternity I even saw them hung on a wall and locked to ·a chain, Jt makes one wonder to see ·that ·sorrte people will leave their rooms open all aa.y but hq.ve their beet mugs \ • locked up. I think if anyone ever took a poll on what a· person treasured most about Union College, it would undeniably be his beer mug. With the opening of the Cabaret this week and . its aquisition of a 'liquor license, ~nother drinldi1g opportunity ·is presented. How much this Will ('ontinued from Page J lazy to- return these books and conveniently \lost track\ of them, or ~lse was too thoughtless to ~:eturn the damaged books, with an offer to pay for them, Another. preva.fent problem seems to be:. that pages are being ripped o1.1t of many ,magazines, partioular·ly Psychoanalytic R:eview and American Image. Dr. Tolan, the librarian, gaid that there is even a · technique to quietly ripping out pages. Aside from the conventional penknife or razor blade, one can hold a Wet string taughtly against a page, and after letting it snap against the paper, the page will easily slip out. Although, according to Tolan, much of the vandalism is from outsiders and not Union students, it remains a problem which cannot be ignored. Another problem, which is the fault of Union student's, is that books are \borrowed\ wifhout being charged out. When this Piper's Continued from Page 5 ·which produces the melody. The chanter has nine holes and Major Piper Joe Smith says that the reason the bagpipe is such a difficult instrument to play is because of the fingering of the notes. The rest of the band began to warm up and began walking from tile administration parking lot to tl1e Science buildir1g. Also blasting away from A.D. Phi was the song \Can't Stop Dancing\ from the Rolling Stones album. From these contradictory sounds · a noise arose that is indescribable but would put a smile on the face of any complimentaria11. Watch Out! It's Coming Nov. 14-15 happens, and another student requites a book that isn't there, time is wasted while the librarian looks tiP the book and discovers that it shoti'ld be in the stack, . wltic;h •. of <.!ourse, .. i:t isn't. ln addition 'to the wasted ·time, books that aren't charged out usually aren~t returne(j until the end of the term, and sometimes until the end of the year. Such abuse demonstrates though(lessness and immaturity, and causes great inconvenience to the college community. Solutions to the library problems have been discussed and some·· hav€ all'eady been implemented. The new design of the library makes it necessary to pass the cirG'ulation desk before leaving. Thus, if a student is carrying beoks, he will have a difficult time passing the desk with uncharged books. In addition; alarms have been set up at all the far doors, Which are for emergency only and not to be used by students. Students will only be able to exit through the frcint door. Other suggestions for solving the library problems include hiring guards, or utilizing TYPING Reasona&le Rate$ Fast Service 393-2233 LU.KE·'S. . Super Market 346-9757 Moffett's Liquor Store 1505 Van Vt\anken Aye. Schenectady, New York 12.308 -ADD TO YOIJR EDUCATION- -· LI:.''A RN MORE ABOUT WINES-. Join Our WIN 1:.' TAST/.V(i CLU.IJ · No Admi~;siom Charge- {1/o R(!quiremenf;\ Each month we select u~iffcrcnt \in.: tc; he tc;tcd. 'I here. h a curd d~·~c•:ihinl:! the wine in [!J'CiU di.'lail Ml')·nu can. Ieurnahnut i1. On t~i• t.itrd thcrc i~ ;t picum· of tho: label !ill you carl' rcmernhcr ·the 11j1tc in the lur·urc li• ih1pn.:;~ ~uur dutc wilcn· );ou dine cy'llt or sim Jy want <ll!licid hurtle ill \\me.· · . • . electronic surveillance. The last of these solutions Wol.!ld be an expense which would not be necessary if students could learn to . cooperate. Another p:r:pposed soh::ttio.n was to ~lose: the stack, and although this is econ.omical, it is obviously very inconvenient. In 1965, after problems in the library emerged similar to our-s, the fraternities and caQlpus leaders started a campaign to· make Union students more aware of the problems. The ·I'esult was that everyone became cooperative and considerate., putting an end t() the library problems. If Union students could act in the same manner today, library problems would soon end. It is very easy to charge out a book. It simply requires the student to show an I.D. card at ·the circulation desk before leaving the library. The book then is his ·for four weeks. If a book is needed for a longer length of time, semester loans can be negotiated With the librarian. Schaffer Library has a lot to offer, and students ar.e given tnany privileges with the books and periodicals. It is up to everyot).e not to abuse those privileges, and all it takes is a · «;;e1ract from the othel.\ sourees of . · beer cannot be known at this time. It may not even affect th<Em at all, which would not be surprising. . What depicts the influence of beer Oil U!j the most is a piece of· art work which combines ecology with beer. It is a small table, the base of which is made up of beer~ I . . ' Time lapse photogntpky catc;hes habitual guzzler in tJze Skeller. cans . (empty .of co l.ltse) glued together, and this is only th~ beginning of· the year. Well, bottoms up! ** Hockey Rink ** (' ontinued from Page 1 committee chairman, reports that the far-reaching rarnificatio1ls of in talking with officials at the building is . but ~ further Williams and Hamilton, schools reassurance of great thin~s .to similar to Union and both with come. dnks, that they emphasized fhe As w~Jl as completely fulfilling importance of their res.pective the needs of the . Uniott. College facilities as the center of winter community, the facility_will also . intramural and recreational be shared quite :ex:tellsiVely with activity. The exuberance· shown the neighboring comlll_unity. This by Kershner, Athletic Director will aid in the area of College- Bruce Alison and Trustee community relations and, in Kenneth_Whalen as they outlined addition, help to meet the area's __ ...._ _ _..,_...._ ____ .....;.. __ recreational needs. A. more little cooperation not electronic equipment or guatds - just consideration for each other. detailed repQrt of the adual fa~Uities of the building: wm be included in Con~ordy mext week. PERFS./ SAT., OCT. 19th at 7':00 & 10:00 P.M. T.l.C. PRODUCTIONS Presents FOR THE FIRST TIME : $6.75, Tickets on sale at Box Office And .an Ticketron Outl,ets Colonie c·OLISEUM Summer Thea. C~l.fmbia Ext, (:ohoes, N.Y. 1.2047 • Phon.e (51S) 785-3393 ·

Page6 ·- CONCORDIENS!S, Wednesday, October.9, 1974 Inauguration Grobfo~ '- ontinued from rage degrees. llle rec1p1ents were: Steven K. Bailey, LL.D., vice- president of the American Council on Education; Howard R. Bowen, LL.D., professor of Economics at Claremont Graduate School; and Mildred McAfee Horton, L. H .D., President emerita of Wellesley College. After the presentations, Ms. Horton spoke, addressing her lively and witty commeAts to her association with Bonner th·rough the Board of Trustees at the University of New Hampshire. fhe ceremony was followed by a luncheon in the Fieldhouse. The President of the University .of the State of New York and New York State Commissioner of Edl!lcation, Ewald B. Nyquist, addressed the ltincheon guests. Conceming the plight of sman colleges, Commissioner Nyquist speculated that \only snmll private colleges that are better or more innovative than their public counterparts will survive. According to his criteria, Nyquist concluded that Union is \unq uestionahly an institution of the future.\ Hopefully you will be reading this early enough in the day so as to still have some of your sobrietY left intact. As you must know, bee.r on Union College seems u play a major role in the life of each student. It may even be the only social life some people have, and I'm sure they prefer ·it that way. As a freshman, the abundance of beer is at first overwhelming, but after a few days one becomes so accustomed to it that much disappointment is felt at the knowledge that beer is not included on the meal plan. Most social activities seem to offer beer as an inducement to get people to come. This is especially true of some of the fraternities on Lenox Road which would rarely see the rest of the student body if it weren't for beer. Weekends, especially now during Rushing, are the biggest (and maybe the best) days for having a pitcher or two or three or four. .... Probably the major advantage of weekend drinking is that you can sleep it off the next day and by about three that afternoon be ready to do it all over again. The largest dispenser of beer is the Rathskellar which always has beer on tap, a definite advanta:ge over the bottled kind. In an average week they use about 16- 20 kegs ofbeer, each keg equaling 30 pitchers. There are 56 ounces in a pitcher and I'm not about to figure out how many ounces that is altogether. The favorite beer is Schlitz, overshadowing Bud by about two to one. An average of forty cases of bottled beer are sold each week further adding to the total consumption. Unfortunately, since the skellar doesn't open tiH, one must use his own resowrces if he wishes to imbibe. Most of us are trying to get our classes out of the way during those hours so the demand is not that great. Another big source of beer is the fraternities. Depending on many factors such as number of members, social functions and other such considerations, the amount of beer used varies. What's a keg here or there anyway? T awards the beginning of each week all the signs go up announcing what parties will be held that weekend. Now we are faced with the difficulty of deciding which one to go to, if not all of them, but usually after the second one, getting back to the dorm seems like an impossible task. One can choose what party to go to only after carefully weighing the factors involved. While to some it may be worth the walk to Lenox Road for a Beer and Pizza .party, others prefer a Band party closer by. Sti·ll others prefer to stay in their rooms and open up a nice cold six pack, which leads us to the thitd source of beer o·n campus. There is really no way of estimating the amount of beer that is tucked away in the many individual refrigerators in each dorm. One can only happily daydream about those lonely bottles waiting anxiously to be opened by their lucky owners. Library Vandalism The .influence of beer is evident wherever one walks. In the bookstore beer mugs and steins are sold and in one fraternity I even saw them hung on a wall and locked to a chain. It makes one wonder to see that some people will leave their rooms open all day but have their beer mugs locked up. I think if anyone ever took a poll on what a person treasured most about Union College, it would undeniably be his beer ml:lg. With the opening of the Ca,baret this week and its aquisition of a liquor license, another drinking opportunity is presented. How much this will detract from the other sources of beer cannot be known at this time. It may not even affect them at all, which would not be surprising. Continued from Page I laLy to return these books and conveniently \lost track\ of them. or else was too thoughtless to return the damaged books, with an offer to pay for them. Another prevalent problem seems to be that pages are being ripped out of many magazines, particularly Psychoanalytit: Review and American Image. Dr. Tolan, the librarian, said that there is even a technique to quietly ripping out pages. Aside from the conventional penknife or razor blade, one can hold a wet string taughtly against a page, and after letting it snap against the paper, the page will easily slip out. Although, according to Tolan, much of the vandalism is from outsiders and not Union students, it remains a problem which cannot be ignored. Another problem. which is the lault of Union students, is that books are \borrowed\ w·Ithout heing charged out. When this • Continued from Page 5 which produces the melodv. lhe chanter has nin~ holes and.Major Piper Joe Smith says that the reason the hagpipc is ~uch a difficult instrument to play is hecause of the fingering of the notes. I he rest of the hand began to warm up and began walking from the administration parking lot to the Science building. Also blasting away lrom A.D. Phi was the song \'Can't Stop Dancing\ from the Rolling Stones album. !-rom these contradictory sounds a noise arose that is indescribable but would put a smile on the face of any complimentarian. Watch Out! It's Coming Nov. 14-15 happens, and another student requires a book that isn't there, time is wasted while the librarian looks up the book and discovers that it should be in the stack, which, of ~ourse, it isn't. In addition to the wasted time, books that aren't charged out usually aren't returned until the end of the term, and sometimes until the end of the year. Such abuse demonstrates thoughtlessness and immaturity, and causes great inconvenience to the college community. Solutions to the library problems have been discussed and some have already been implemented. The new design of the library makes it necessary to pass the circulation desk before leaving. Thus, if a student is carrying books, he will have a difficult time passing the desk with uncharged books. In addition. alarms have been set up at all the far doors, which are for emergency only and not to be used bv students. Students will only he able to exit through the front door. Other suggestions for solving the library problems include hiring guards, or utilizing TYPING Reasonable Rates Fast Service 393-2233 LUKE'S Super Market 346-9757 Moffett's Liquor Store 1505 VanVranken Ave. Schenectady, New York !2308 -ADD TO .YOUR EDUCATION- - LI:.'ARN MORE ABOUT WINES·- Ioin Our WINE TASTI.VCJ'CI.UB No Admi!.·sion.~ Charg('- /1/o R(•quirement.l Each month Y.e )())ect a diflcrcnt11inc to h~ tc,h:d. I here i' u curd d<·,crinin!,! the Y.ine in great dt:tail1o ~ou can learn ahnut it. (In th\ card th~;rc ;, a picltu· 1 • of the lahel Ml ~~~~~ can rcmcmhcr the 11inc 1n lht: future tn lnlJ>r<'\ 1our dmt: Y.hcn )ou dine 0'111 or >impl) \\Unt a gund il<lltlc nl 11mi:. • •• electronic surveillance. The last of these solutions would be aH expense which would not be necessary if students could learn to cooperate. Another proposed solution was to close the stack, and although this is economical, it is obviously very inconvenient. In 1965, after problems in the library emerged similar to ours, the fraternities and campus leaders started a campaign to make Union students more aware of the problems. The result was that everyone became cooperative and considerate, putting an end to the library problems. If Union students could act in the same manner today, library problems would soon end. It is very easy to charge out a book. It simply requires the 'tudent to show an J.D. card at the circulation desk before leaving the library. The book then is his for four weeks. If a book is needed for a longer length of time, semester loans can be neg()tiated with the librarian. Schaffer Library has a lot to offer. and students are given many privileges with the books and periodicals. It is up to everyone not to abuse those privileges. and a II it takes is a What depicts the influence of beer on us the most is a piece of art work which combines ecology with beer. It is a small table, the base of which is made up of beer· Time lapse photography catches habitual guzzler in the Skeller. cans (empty of course) glued together, and this is only the beginning of the year. Well, bottoms up! ** 1-lockey Rink ** ( ontinued from Page 1 committee chairman, reports that the far-reaching ramifications of in talking with officials at the building is but a further Williams and Hamilton, schools reassurance of great things to similar to Union and both with come. rinks. that they emphasized the As well as completely fulfilling importance of their respective the needs of the Union College facilities as the center of winter community, the facility will also intramural and recreational be shared quite extensively with activity. The exuberance shown the neighboring community. This by Kershner, Athletic Director will aid in the area of College- Bruce Alison and rrustee communitv relations and, in Kenneth Whalen as they outlined addition, help to meet the area's ___________ _:... __ recreational needs. A more little cooperation not electronic equipment or guards ju~t consideration for each other. detailed report of the actual faciUties of the building will be included in Con~ordy next week. PERFS./ SAT. 1 OCT. 19th at 7:00 & 10:00 P.M. T.L.C. PRODUCTIONS Presents FOR THE FIRST TIME PRICES: $6.75, $5.75, $4.75 Tickets on sale at Box Office And all Ticketron Outlets Colonie c·OLISEUM Summer TheaG CoiJmbia Ext. Cohoes, N.Y. 12047 • Phone (51 81 785-3393 · :' . 1•j : l '; ' ' ' I ( 1 '! l '1 ' ,.J . I j i, .. i .. - '' i I I

Public Relations -By ROB MONDSCFlEIN There was a'n inauguration of two things this past weekend; that of a c()llege president and that of an advertising campaign. When President Bonnet needed funding for University of New Hampshire; he was getting extreme~y bad press. · He hired the .public ~elations · firm of Gelrrung Associates 'Univer.sity Relations Couriselars, lnc. which has offices in Jaffrey, N.H.,. on Madison AV€0Ue., and are a'bour4o ope-n offices in Sari ·Francisco, The reason he hired the firm Which deals exclusively with higher education wa~ to get goaq press. Bonner toured the· state to make· his ca·sc ·- he got the money and was able to !()wet tuition at the university. Renner took Gehrung · Associates University Relatio.ns Counselers, · Inc. 'with him to Union to have what Fred Gehrung, the re.ptesentative of the company, caUed \communication lobbyists\ in order to \take the -institution that deserves attention and obtain it for that school.\ l'hey have bee.n on campus since August and their initial .phase -of operation will be clone by the end of the month, Whether they will continue wilr'b:~ decided then. Accordin:g t~· Mr·~ Gehning, the reasan .for this media lol>bying is to build. up Union's reputation. l'he main .reason for this is that it tnake.s it far . easier to· obtain foundation ftlndfug: Secondly, improving Union's reputation will improve its admissions. attended. ·rher.e was ve.ey .. :irnpor~t_a-nt media · t.her:e indeed. h1 the audience sat the man~:~.ging ¢ditor of .. 'Change Magazine_.,; Th~se are ··the media ·rn which the trends o.f ltigner education are laid <:HH as well as the area that the major tne<iia writers, (Le. national netwotks, Time; Newsweek) g9 to Howev~r, aU those representing w:hen they seek to know what i~ by JUDY DEIN other sch<>ols, and Union's own goirtg on Ln higher education. To be honest, .my idea ·of a faculty and administrators rhus the inaugurati<;>n got their perfect way .to spend a beautiful · obviously felt that their robes, or attention ll.'nd hFought t:hem to SatUrdaY does not include getting ''costumes;' as one speaker called l1ear the declavation of policy and aU dressed up and ~narching in a them, itdded a ce.rtain solemnity delineation of .goals. processkm. However, for various <\Ud am11 of dignity to the Tlle p.ubUc r!;!lations firm, h<~s reasons, many unknown to }celebration. Even the students also been aFranging a. meeting :my.self. I agreed to participate in who attended the inauguration, witlt the major rnedia in New the lna~;~guration of Thomas came, f<>.r the most part, York to get President Bonrier en Nevill~ Bonner as . the 15th \appropriately\ d'ressed in jackets the T!:lday show or a similar net President of :U.fiion CoUege and <~nd ties •. dresses and dress pants. work prognJm, and to get time Chancellor of Union University. ·nmes certa·inly have changed. a11d 'Newsweek to become aware A·nd,. much to my amazement,. I· Years ago 1 would have shown uo of lJuion College and Pl'esident found the entire day's events 8oilneT.. · impressive. interesting and even Tbe public relations firm is a:lso enjoyable. Never before have I c~unseling Union College's public seen such a conglomeration of relations department on its robes, medals and uniforms; and p ractic:es, never 'before have 1 felt the By the end of the tnonth, fhe dignity and prestige which first phqse will have ended eosting accompa,nies involvement in an the cell~ge an amount in excess of academic society. a targ~r role in our education (since I am rea-lly none too thriiied about being q uctlified only to sell encyclopedias). But for one afternoon 1 realized how many people hav~ devoted so much tune to study;. a-nd for the first time in a long time I did not feel the need to apologize for being a ~tudertt at a \liberal Arts\ coU(:ge, ot for studying a little hit 'of ·everything. bec;ause there's so much I want to know. It appears that improving Union's · reputation is an important ~spect of what is oc:cutring, but something far more important appears to be occurring.. It appears that President Bonn~t:.w-ants to make Union :College :t:h~ leader\'fin a revival of liberal arts education. l'he inauguration appeared to have served two very important functions. The first was attracting over 130 of-this nation's leading educators to H~ar what he and others had to ·say on tltese two topics. Secondly, It served to attract important media attent·ion. $.()()00, though the exact amoUnt U 11ion College has been very· has not yet been decided upon. concerned .of late in improving rfte next phase is whether this the social fife on campus. Yet at ·fir1n will .go beyond th~ ·all the town meetings and panel e<Jnstiltation stage into tlt<i more discussions the need for Union to direct functioning of a. specific c.reate an intellectuatl~ stimulating area of the cotl~ge's publ.it ~ 1 s well as socially productive relations. It will .probably b.e community has become apparent. ddiJ.g this. These peopl¢ wiLl also ~'inally, tllete it was, all in one [)e seeking out Union•s strengths chapel. the reason why going to and weaknesses. Oneway the finn ' .c:ollege js different from going to will De doing this is .through camp. Du.ring the I naug.uration interviewing students in thl! ceremony, D.r. Bonner instilled in c<>ming months. The basi~ na,~u.r~. ..many that certain pride, perhaps of tbis :public relations campaign ego, whici!.,Colhes by participating ·is. StiUneb.ulot1s, thougb it .is quite in .an academic community. lnaugutalprocession crosses Library Plaza clear that the beneficiary will be 1 • They s~y that clothes don't lJ.nion <;,o)lege, its student. bocfy, ·. , make a man, and ;I. don't know l£le'u]ty and administration: 1 · .. , .'aJJYOOe- Who WOUld diSagree., Cubs vs CIA The speeches at tbe inauguration and specifically Presid~nt Bonner's speech was a statement in. favor of an optimistic outlook on the future, a supp.ort of traditional liberal arts. programs and a rebuttal of vocationalism, and .a statement that Union, which has innovated' in the past, will innovate for the .future. The panel discussion was really not much of .a discussion, having a six member panel that agreed on the same basic premises with minor differences and all spoke out on the resurgence of the independent college. it was a statei'nent of purpose directed at o.ther ~olleges who atte~ded .as weU as to the medm that By JA;CK PITNEY Director of Centrallntelligerice William Colby today denied re.pcnts: that his agency had irttetfered with the internal affairs of the Cub Scouts of America, Nevertheless, reliable sources revealed that the CIA fl!nneled $6.9~million into the organization in. an effort to discredit Grand Pack Leader Timmy Dribble of lvl·urtcie. I-ndiana. They said the agen:t:y wanted to check a leftward dTift jn the organization tlut be.gan when Dribble pro~osed the Indianapolis den redis.tribute· its milk-and-cookie funds to smaller packs in the area. · C!.A operations against Dribble began with· the famous Muncie lncicl.ellt. On October 14, 1974, · s~urces. indicate, an agent gained mtra:nce to a meeting of Dribble's 'pack and spiked. the fruit juice With vodka. Three days later, Find out about the new ite- police found the :;couts .assaulting skating facility, as well as. a troop of Campfire Girls in the ot·her ne:w a'nd ex citing Woods near Muncie. developments at Union. Druce . . Activities gained momentum · Sostek and Geoff Taylor, d\.lrin,g the leader's re-election Student Representatives on the . campaign. ihe agency p~rsuaded Board of Truste.es, will inform pl\'orriinent media personalities studehts about recent :Board · all:d adv.~ttisers to denounce decisions 11t lO p:m. tonight, · Ti:mmy on the air. For instance, Odober 9~ in Strauss Lounge. Captain Kangaroo said, \the Cub Scouts ate a fine group of PACKAG'E HANDLING \ - - ~ Part-time Employment Male or -Female 5 Days a Week, 4 Hrs. a Day Eve. hrs. $3,8~ per hr.: CONTACT UNITED P .ARCEL SERVlCE Avis Drive, L3tham, 1.38-&700 or Mlrs. Manllti, St11dent Aid '· . .; boys ·- exce.pt for that no~good Commie faggot~ Timmy Dribble.\ The Mattei Corporation advertised its Atomic Blaster as ••oreat fun! Be the first kid on your block to shoot out Timmy's Intestines.\ · Dribble's opponent, Little Karl Reichstag, ran on a law-and-order platform which some say was written in Washington. Karl's message was simple: ''First kid to leave crumbs on the floor gets thrown in an ol<l refrigerator that doesn't have a handle o.n the inside.\ He obviously appealed to the mood of the pack; winning. by a margin of 14,562 to 498. This figure ·is widely disputed, however, since the pack only has 14 members. Would you IU~e fo spend . ·your· ~pring term at Union in Bogota, Colombia or in- Schwabisc:h Rail, Germany? if so, · eBntact · Prof. Anton · Warde, Acting Dir(!ctor o.f Term Abroad Programs, right' away. (Tiiis does not apply if you Ita ve alreq:dy made application.) PATTON'S Health Foods Natural Vitamins & Minerals 221 Broadway (off State) · • Mou.·Sat. 9::10-5:30 Thurs. 7:00 ~374-4883 in jeans and work shirts to prove tm:t:~ what peoNe wea~ is trivial, ... and d1at the cha*acter of a person is much more important. that out:side appearances. I stilt can't argue with the idea that inner personality is more important than dress, but formality and tradition still do have their place. I had a Psych professor once who . used to say that if you were • unprepared. for an exam you ~hould look your best, and you would undoubted•Jy inspire yourself to perform better. The caps and gowns and formal ~peeches did make all those who attended feel good, and even kind of proud, even if they were mainly for show. the panel discussion following the luncheon showed · that a thought-provoking afternoon could also attract an audience. I was disappointed, however, by the fact that the ceremonies were 1\ot geared towards the students, but rather towards outside guests. Still, for all those who attended l wou'ld think that the Inauguration was a worthwhile way to spend an ufternoon. For the first time in a lot1g time, I felt the desire to continue learning simply for the !'ake of gajning knowledge. I forgot ab,out future empl0yment lind vocational and cateer training, all of which shol,lld play The ,International. Relations Club will hold its organizational meeting Oc.~t. 16 1 at 4:30 P.M. in Strauss l.ounge. The Club's theme for this year is \Violence in Our Worid.\ Some proposed activities wm be workshops, seminars and possibly a winter symposium. A.ll interested students shou1d contact:· Helen Billak, 206 West, 370-6613. :••·············•lllllli······ Pla.-s for a pre-Christm~s tr.ip to the Soviet Union have been announced by Mrs. Nadja Jemakoff. All interested persons are urged to contact Mrs. Jernakoff as soon as possible at E~tensioh 6207 PAMPER YOUR FEET TRY~S WALLABEESI!l Clarks Wallabee is probably the most comfortable shoe ever designed. Genuine moccasin construction gives Wallabee a glove~like feel. that makes tired feet untired and keeps fresh feet from ever getting tired. In sand or brown suede and brown or black calf. /I The Family Shoe Store 147 JAY STREET SCHENECTADY, N.Y. 12305

Page8 CONCORDIENSlS, Wednesday, O<:tober 9, 1974 . . The Inauguration of Thomas Neville Bonner as President of Union College and Chancellor of Union University OCTOBER HE!H NINETEEN HUNDRED SEVENTY FOUR SCHENECTADY, NEW YORK ·- I jlllll I

Page 8 CONCORD!ENSIS, Wednesday, October 9, 1974 ---~wr4· ~· The Inauguration of Thomas Neville Bonrier as President of Union College and Chancellor of Union University OCTOBER FIFTH NINETEEN HUNDRED SEVENTY FOUR SCHENECTADY. NEW YORK ' i . i I I I l I j 1 J f : I . I I I .f ·- <J,, ~~~ ·~t;~ • ~ ;..!•\ ! • . ! -~ f f i I I I I I l I ; I 1 I l ! I I ~ ! •i ' ' I I I

CONCORDIENSIS, Wednesday, October 9, !974 ' '- ,\ '4..:.

' ' ' ! . I, I . ' I I I I f j l l l 1 i i i j I .j ' .. ' i I I I 1·1 1 I 1 CONCORDIENSIS, Wednesday, Octoh('r 9. 1974 Page 9 --·-------·--------------··- l~

• CONCORDIENSIS, Wednesday, October 9, 1974 :: BLIT.HER All St1:1dents irtter~sted in going to Israel Will meet in SSOI2 Wednesd~y. October 9 at 7:00P.M. * * * * LAST CALL l\OR BOGOTA AND SCHW ABISCH HALL'! If you have not yet made a!! application for this spring's Terrn Abroad programs in Colombia. or 0fi;lrtnany; hut would n~vertheless li'ke to :garticipate in one of them., see Pro.f. Warde immediately in · 'Humanitie$ 2ll. * * * * Three positions are now open on the Film Conurtittee, two of which '·r-~·•· are for freshmen only. hJ addition, the Election Committee has openings for fi:ve assistants;. three ·of which must be. filled by freshmen. lnterest:ed: students may pick up· apt.p.lications s.tartillg Tbursday from. Mrs. Marra a;t the Student Activities. O:ffjce. · Communications Bre·akdown Continued from Page 1 due to the \negligence of the. General Manager.'; Sokol $tated that it was part c:)f the General Manager's job to see that the ~tation nms smoothly, but that there were many jobs tbat were not done, that had to be d-one. Sokol-said that he was selling and producing advertisements, \disc jockeying\ many shows, reviewing records, tending the transmitter, and doing otlwr technical jobs. His resignation was .precipitated by his resignation of attitude towards the situation at W.R.U.C. Sokol said he felt that no one on the W.R.U .C. sta,ff was NYU Dean ('ontinued from Page I Kimball made it clear that there would have to be some unusual circumstances before a law school accepted a student who was significantly lacking. in terms of his LSA T score or grade point average. _ What kind of a record ·must a student have to gain admission to N.Y.u. law schoolt Dean Kim bail said. that to be a competitive applicant to NYU one should have a 3.5 GPA and approximately a 680 on the LSAT. He termed as ·~common\ students that had records approximating a 3.3 GPA an.d a score of 650 on the LSA T. Kimball did cite a case, though, of a student from Cornell with a 3.1 GPA and a 600 LSAT score who gained admission to NYU on the basis of his experience as campaign manager for Shirley Chisholm's bid for the presidency in 1972. What is it that distinguishes NYU from other law schools? Kimball stated that NYU is one of the ten most highly respected law schools in the country. In addition to the quality of its instructors and .students, Kimball viewed its location in New York City as an excellent resource due to the high level of social consciousness present there. What kind of law are most law students at NYU interested in these days? Kimball said that the recent trend has been toward the practice of corporate law. He said students who were originally idealistic have become conservative. Kimba.ll suggested that the demands of Jaw school, in terms of its expense~ and work load, have served to dampen the enthusiasm of those who began Ia w school with idealistic attitudes. He believed this represented the national picture as well. getting p.t0pe.r recognition ·except Kaplan, and that Kaplan was \primarily interested in :the gratification of his own ego,\ In addition, Sokol cla·imed that there was _ just a general lack of 'leadership at W.,R.U .C., and made this analogy: \A General Manager is looked to as a f<tther, we'll, this father deserted his ·child-,\ existed. Kaplan, like· Sokol~ ran unopposed last winter for his offic.e; General Manager. Kapla·J:r denied emphatically that he .did iiot give \credit where cre<ift was. d-ueP When asked a·bout the charge of desertion, Kaplan explained, \I can't bring my C()f i:n there and sleep tllere.\ Kaplan termed Sokors resignation as ·~unfortunate, but not goi'ng to affect the running of the station:\ Ka'J')lan also explained that t•he resignation of Program Directar, . Rick Forselius, was based solely . Kaphm defended himself by reasserting that Sokol never came to him; and told him of his teeHngs, and that he really could not be expected to solve a problem that he did not know · on academic considerations, a11d went on to say that, there was now a greater need than ever for more interested people to get involved with W.R.U;C. '•The Political Forum many good and exciting things · On Thursday, October lO, that .are happening here should be 1974, at 7:30 'in the Old Chapel~ stressed, and not the temporary the Political Forum is sponsoring problems that we are having a lecture by Derrick Morrison, now,\ Kaplan said. He also the candidate of The Socialist hinted that word would soon Worker's Party for .governor of arrive concerning Union's New York State. - a:pplication for an F.M. license, The Socialist Worker's Party by saying that there Was a presents itself as the alternative to possibility of tremendous growth what it sees as a bgovernmenJ of W.RU.C, this year. made up of Repu Iic;ans ~n · just as there w~~ no discussion Democrats ~he! Fepresent only of a:ny problem 'before Sokol's the interests of the rich, resignation, there was no attempt throughout the entire federal and at reconciliation after it. Ne.ither st;lte levels. of govemment. Tlte Sokol or Kaplan understand what Party believes that the institutions the other thinks. Kaplan thought of the government must . be Sokol's resignation was political, replaced, and control placed in the hands of the majority class; . which is hard to understand given the working class. The working the nature of last years elections. class, Blacks, and other oppressed While Sokol felt that Kaplan was· nationalities arethegroupsurged res.ponsible ·for gross to mobilize and establish a mismanagement, also hard to. worker's government. belieVe due to the fact that Derrick Morrison, 27, has been W.R.U .C. is on the air and. a writer for The Militant running welL· It seems ironical new spa per for the past four years t h.a t i n the . U el d of and is coauthor of Attica: Why communication; in a year When Prisoners are Rebelling, and other communiCation is supposed to be writings on the Black liberation a major issue at Union, that such struggle. He covered first hand a thing should happen. the black political cartventions in Cary, Indiana, and. Little Rock, Arkansas, as well as the Attica rebellion. He spoke on numerous campuses defending the Attica prisoners.. Morrison went to Cuba in 1969 as a guest of the government on the lOth anniversary of the revolution, as a representative of the Young Socialist Alliance. He attended Wayne State University in Detroit. Everyone is urged to attend this topical and stimulating event. Refreshments will be servec:l afterwards. - Joe Silver (V.~.) teva·s Dave's· Mens Shop elStateSt. (4owntown Sehe~y). . ·r.=i·.··.····.·····l5.· ·~·. r_.·· fhere IS a •. . :· ditlereiice!!l \ · : . -:--- . . 'I' Olltr 35 Y~!fl • e PREPARE~· of tllp. arit. r.tt : ·• ·MC A'J 1nd iueetSS e : · . ft . · \lolull!inotll hom• : a g. •A'Y study :natet !lis · Q a It I Coun•s thl\ ;ft • • LS' AT . t:OI'IIflnrlv u.::l!::!~ii • : Ill. Smill•tlii$SIS : , ·GRE· ·Brt!oklvnc.ntll' • : : . . . . .open dtys, evtnillgl • ,a ·~s·a· .· and WHktnds; : ·• II I U . · i:omPI•tt.r.pt • •· 0£' AY .. fie. !litieS:for e • Ill . revtews of class a • · · . · · · · ; lmon$Bnd·for· use • : CPAT · ohuP.plementiry : a . . . materrats • ., FlEX Mikt·UJJS h:>. • : . . .. . ... . . mi~edlesson; • •. E\FMG atour)rooklyn : • . . \ • . . . · c~ntel' iii : Nlf'LMED BDS : . . . -··- .. : tHOUSANps H;!Wf: e • RAlSEDTH~IR Sj~!)RES : DONALD BENNETT • BlencheD tn IMtropQiit.nn :ii.... • iji4i i BOOKS 2075 Fiero A venue Schenectady, New York 12303. Phone 355-0177 :a· N' : ~· EOUCAOONM. CENtEi't t.n. : •• TEST PfiEf'ARA tlOI\! · • Sl't;CIAliSTS'SINCE 1138 \ : ·: -~\ 1212) ~31'5::1(!,!jl . J . t•~ 1675 Etet 16tt• S11,.t • • \\kl · N V 1·t•••·c. • · * * * * Come hear everything you Nwa:ys Wanted to Know About Your Student Gevernment*- *but were afrald to ask,Thu,rsd~y nite, October 15,. 7:00P.M. SSOl6 . . * ·>ic· *' ,,, • There will be a Steering Committee me~ting ·Monday night, October M, in the FoxH.ouse Lounge, at 7:0(Jp.m. SENIOR PICTURES will be taken for the Union College yearbook, the Onion Book, on October 15, l6a nd 17 in the J!>wer lounge in Hale House. th~ sitting fee is $3.12 Whi~b is payable at the time of the sitting. Negatives are kept on file lJY tl'le photographer for 5 years in case there is a .need for application paotos, so please dress accordingly. October . 15; 1974 9: 30-I 2:00; 12: 3~-J: 30 October 16, .. I 974 9:30-12:00; 12:30-4-:0() October 17, 1974 9:30~12:00; 12:30'\-4.:00 Please come into the Student Activities Office and sign up for a sitting time w~th Mrs. Marra. 1he Political Science Departni.el!t announces the \Second A.d Ho~ Debate on . .P<)Jitics'' betweim Proi'es:;or$ Byron Nichol& anq. R 0 be.~\t Sharlet with Ptofessot Joseph Boa.:d as moderator, 0n the topic CUBA, KISSINGER & CHILE. The debate will be held on Thursday, October lOth in SS016 at 4:30 pm.' All are welcome. * * t * Starting Thu., Oct. 10, and continuing through Oct. 14, the Upper New Y otk State Regional Contract Bridge Championships will be held at the Thruway Hyatt Ho1,1se, 1375 W asbinton Ave., Albany, NY. The games are sanctioned hy the American .Co11tract Hridge League. Anyone wishing to play and needin~ a partner r:nay call Ms. Mickey Bloomer at (5l8) 374-5723. * * * * ATT:ENT10N! Meeting of wome11;S ~::auQus: Monday Oct. 14 at 7:30 in 20 I Carnegie. Come and offer your ideas. . * * * *·\':\\''- Pre-law? Female'? Interested in fi~ding out about law . schools? Coilterence on women in )aw at · Syracuse Oct. 19. For more information contaet Marjotie Kohn at 370-6447. * 'I<· 'People who sign~d Up to Clo photo!5rap.·hy aildj or darkroom Work for the Uni€ln BooJ< 1 please come to a meeting on Tl:ru. night, Oct. 10 at 7':30 in the yearlwok office which is loo~ted on the top floor 0f Carnegie, Now iJ· beaut[ful oriental pendant that doubles beautifully · as- a mirror! Reed & Barton's .• richly carved, mirrot-paoked Ming Pendant , recreates the exotic elegance . * * * * ·~ • ' :! I of thls famed period in Chinese art 11368 1o. 1644 A.D.) •. · Replete with · the famed good luck Dragon. Matching chain available extra. Pendant diameter 21/4 \. · ·Gift•boxed, $12.9.5: REED & BARTON STERLING $12.·95 (ebain extl'a) REBIND REPAIR BUY SELL ·~· (5tfil531-4i.!i5•!~.f.I'H.',i;.·\·i71·0 .. i.~.·. ;·.: .. Vlt.. • . , ... ~ . • . ' I .. ' • • ......... ,.... . . ',: ·;~j :• .• . Maurice Grub art & '.Sons . · . ·, 374-S4D4 . l(;c; Jay Sf.~ . :· .· . - PRI T stuc 1!) p Zl [ 4:00 h buil acti· mu~ on ~ boa Lf)~ eyes (346 F devt Tm toni The pml Ti Oct< mee· cont R4 skati Stint price reser n Prof Pale: sche4 n a C OC'I Lenc Cysti clot \.1\ the c \I: clap temp stupi ''G orde1 all,. E Gear Ju follo' drin1 \.[; Hold the d ho11e electc \~ DE ··wei hollo ·think rem a shou blast \T .\D I'll r Nixo but How \I' man< ''A 0 13~

CONCORDIENSJS, Wednesday, October 9, 1974 Communications Breakdow11 ( ontinued from Page 1 due to the ·•negligence of the (jenera! Manager.\ Sokol stated that it was part of the General Manager's job to see that the ~tation runs smoothly, but that there were many jobs that were not done, that had to be done. Sokol said that he was selling and producing advertisements, \disc jockeying\ many shows, reviewing records, tending the transmitter, and doing other technical jobs. His resignation was precipitated by his resignation of attitude towards the situation at W.R.U.C. Sokol said he felt that no one on the W.R.U.C. staff was NYU Dean ( ·ontinued from Page I Kimball made it clear that there would have to be some unusual circumstances before a law school accepted a student who was significantly lac king in terms of his LSA T score or grade point average. _ What kind of a record must a student have to gain admission to N.Y.U. law school? Dean K imbaii said that to be a competitive applicant to NYU one should have a 3.5 GPA and approximately a 680 on the !.SAT. He termed as \common\ ~t udents that had records approximating a 3.3 G PA and a ;.core of 650 on the LSAT. Kimball did cite a case, though, of a student from Cornell with a J.l GPA and a 600 LSAT score who gained admission to NYU on the basis of his experience as campaign manager for Shirley Chisholm's bid for the presidency in 1972. What is it that distinguishes NYU from other law schools? Kimball stated that NYU is one of the ten most highly respected law schools in the country. In addition to the quality of its instructors and students, Kimball viewed its location in New York City as an excellent resource due to the high level of social consciousness present there. What kind of law are most law students at NYU interested in these days? getting proper recognition except Kaplan, and that Kaplan was \primarily interested in the gratification of his own ego.\ In addition, Sokol claimed that there was just a general lack of leadership at W.R.U.C., and made this analogy: \A General Ma11ager is looked to as a father, well, this father deserted his child.\ existed. Kaplan, like Sokol, r:an unopposed last winter for his office; General Manager. Kapl~fl denied emphatically that he did not give '\credit where credit was due.!' When asked about the charge of desertion, Kapla.n explained, \'I can't bring InY coti n there and s'leep there.\ Kaplan termed Sokol's resignation ll.s \unfortunate but not going I o affect the running of the station.\ Kaplan also explained that tlte resignation of Program Director, Rick Forselius, was based solely on academic considerations, ancl went on to say that, there was now a greater need than ever £~>-r more interested people to get involved with W.R.U.C. \The marry good and exciting thing~ that are happening here should be stressed, and not the temporary problems that we are having now,\ Kaplan said. He also hinted that word would so0n arrive concerning Union's application for an F.M. license., oy saying that there was ~ possibility of tremendous growtf:t of W.R.U.C. this year. Kaplan defended himself by reasserting that Sokol never came to him, and told him of his feelings, and that he really could not be expected to solve a problem that he did not know Political Forum On Thursday, October 10, 1974, at 7:30 in the Old Chapel, the Political Forum is sponsoring a lecture lly Derrick Morrison, the candidate of The Socialist Worker's Party for governor of New York State. The Socialist Worker's Party presents itself as the alternative to what it sees as a government made up of Republicans and Democrats who represent only the interests of the rich, throughout the entire federal and state levels of government. The Party believes that the institutions of the government must be replaced, and cont.rol placed in the hands of the majority class, the working class. The working class, Blacks, and other oppressed nationalities are the groups urged to mobilize and establish a worker's government. Derrick Morrison, 27, has been a writer for The Militant newspaper for the past four years and is coauthor of Attica: Why Prisoners are Rebelling, and other writings on the Black liberation struggle. He covered first hand the black political conventions in Gary, Indiana, and Little Rock, Arkansas, as well as the Attica rebellion. He spoke on numerous campuses defending the Attica prisoners.. Morrison went to Cuba in 1969 as a guest of the government on the I Oth anniversary of the revolution, as a representative of the Young Socialist Alliance. He attended Wayne State University in Detroit. Everyone is urged to attend this topical and stimulating event. Refreshments will be served afterwards. - Joe Silver (V.P.) tevrs Just as there was no discussior:t of any problem before Sokol's; resignation, there was no attempt at reconciliation after it. Neither Sokol or Kaplan understand what the other thinks. Kaplan thought Sokol's resignation was political. \\ hich is hard to understand given the nature of last years elections. While Sokol felt that Kaplan was responsible for gross mismanagement, also hard to helievc due to the fact that W.R.U.C. is on the air and running well. It seems irmlical that in the field of communication, in a year when communication is supposed to be a major issue at Union, that such a thing should happen. ~···········~~. . r_.·- !here IS a •. : difference!!! i • •• • • - .. A4 .. E FOR·I Ovtr 35 v~srs • o '\\\'' \ 1 • 1 ·, of t1,periirlil:l • ·• MC ~~~~ and success e • ft Volumino111 home • : 0'' .... stUd'f :llliNt 311 : 0 It I Courses tha1 ;an o : LS AT constantly u,,e:!!?il 0 e ft I Small cl.:..<es : 0 GRE Brooklyn center e : · opon days, evenings 0 . ·~sa and weekends • '• II Ill • Complete tape : •. oc•·r flt!lities for • 0 11 rev1ews ol cl.as.s • : cn•·rlessons and for use • • rll of supptemel1tary : o lEX matenals 0 :· f! Make·U~i fo o 0 miSsed lessons Kimball said that the recent trend has been toward the practice of corporate law. He said students who were originally idealistic have become conservative. Kim ba II suggested that the demands of law school, in terms of its expenses and work load, have served to dampen the enthusiasm of those who began law school with idealistic attitudes. He believed this represented the national picture as well. Da•e's· Mens Shop I 453 Sbte St. (downtown Schenectady) • : ECiaMG at our),·ooldyn ° ~ • ~m~ : i Nlf'LMED&DS: -----··- . It THOUSANDS HI' VE o DONALD BENNETT BOOKS REBIND REPAIR BUY SELL 2075 Fiero A venue Schenectady, New York J 2303 Phone 355-0177 : AAISED TH~1!~;;,9RES : 0 SlanchiS on Metropotit.un .~~... • ·I & Mlijor Citift in U.S.A • iM:;~ i • EOUCATIONAI. CJ:.Nruft LT\). 1 1 'e TEST PREPARATllll\' ~~~~~~ iit e • SPECI.ALISTS SINCE 1836 'I·!!!:':\ . •• \run ill : c./1 121zl Ja&-s:: 1 c~·,, I • 15161 531l..ti:i55. (2(1!! .\:. ·6170 • re; 1675 East 1litt• Sto tte~ B'klyn.N. V.11i!H\ ··········yCie BLITHER AJtl Students interested in going to Israel will meet m SSOI2 Wednesday, October 9 at 7:00 P. M. * * * * LAST CALL FOR BOGOTA AND SCHWABlSCH HALL! If yGu have not yet made an application for this spring's Term Abroad r>rograms in Colombia or Germany, but would nevertheless like to participate in one of them, see Prof. Warde immediately in · Humanities 211. * * * * Three positions are now ope!! oR the Film Committee, two of which are lor lreshmen only. In addition, the Election Committee ha~ openiflgs for live ass·istant~; ti;Jree ot which must be fHled by freshmen. Iuterested students may pick up· applications starting Thursday from Mrs. Marra at the Student Activities Office. * * * * Come hear everything you Always Wanted to Know About your Student GGvernment* --· *but were afraid to ask. Thursday nite, October 15, 7:00P.M. SSOJ6 * * * * ,. There wil'l be a Steering Committee meeting Monday night, October 14, in the Fox House Lounge, at 7:00p.m. SENI GR PICTURES wiU be taken for the Union College yearbook, the Union Book, on October 15, 16 and 17 in the lower lounge in Hale House. The sitting fee is $3.12 which is payable at the time of the sitting. Negatives are kept on file by the photographer for 5 years in case there is a need for application photos, so please dress accordingly. October 15, 1974 9:30-12:00; 12:30-3:30 October 16, 1974 9:30-12:00; 12:30-4:00 October 17, 1974 9:30-12:00; 12:30-4:00 Please come into the Student Activities Office and sign up tor a sitting time with Mrs. Marra. * * * * The Political Science Department announces the \'Second Ad Hoc Debate on Politics\ between Professors Byron Nichols and Robert Sharlet with Professor Joseph Board as moderator, on the topic CU.RA, I<ISSINGER & CHILE. The debate will be held on Thursday, October !rOth in SSOI6 at 4:30pm.' All are welcome. * * * * Starting Thu., Oct. 10, and continuing through Oct. 14, the Upper New York State Regional Contract Bridge Championships will be held at the Thru\.Vay Hyatt House, 1375 Washinton Ave., Albany, NY. The games are sanctioned by the American Contract Bridge League. Anyone wishing to play and needing a partner may call Ms. Mickey Bloomer at (518) 374-5723. * * * * ATTE!'\TION! Meeting of women's caucus: Monday Oct. 14 at 7:30 in 201 Carnegie. Come and olter your ideas. * * * * Pre-law? Female'! Interested in finding out about law schools'! ('onlerence on women in law at Syracuse Oct. !l). For more <nlmmation contact Marjoric.Kohn at 370-6447. * * * * People who ~ig:ned up to do photography and· or darkroom work for the Uni()n Book, please come to a meeting on Thu. night, Oct. 10 at 7:30 in tl1e yearbook ot lice which ts located on the top f'loor of Carnegie. * * * * ' i I··' i l t'·· __ , ·.I ! l ·\ ',l J I ! i ' li i I I I I . : I .. I' c I .. ' j Ill ow a beatJ1ifu I oriental pendant that doubles beautifully of this famed period ' . ~ as a mirror! Reed & B~rton's richly carved, mirror-backed Ming Penda111 recreates the exotic elEgance in Chinese art (1368 to 1644 A.D.). Replete with the famed good luck Dragon. Matching chain available extra. Pendant diameter 21/c\ .. Gift-boxed, $12.95. REED & BARTON STERLING$12.98 (chain extra) Maurice Graubart & Sons 374-54&4 16() Jay st: · PR l stu I )I 2) 4:0• bui act mu on boc LO eye ( 34, ~ dev Trt ton Thf pm .I Oct met COil .R ska1 Sun pric rese T Pro Pah sche T a { oc LeH Cys1 clot \I the \I cla1 tern stup \( ordt all, Geo Jt folic drin \I Hol1 the. hono elec1 .. , D \We hon1 thin rem, shot bias \l .\[ I 'II Nix' but Hou \I man \! ( 13

SSOI2 Term in which has from t Yonr Ol6 ctober Hale the in ngly. for a ·uoc obe.J;t topic sd~y. held The ckey 7:30 .10 of r:t . CONCORDIENSIS, Wedn~sday, October 9~ J974 Page 11 .. ·stiTB.E.R; PRE,;LA W STUDENTS: The following law s~hool representatives will be available for students in the Political Science offices on the following dates: IJ Professor Melvin Shimm, Duke U.: Tues, Oct. 22, 2:30-4:30 pm, ZJ Dean Roy Steinheimer, Washington and Lee: Wed .• Oct. 23, 2:00- 4;00pm. * ·*· * * In order to maintain the attractiveness of our campus and .its buildings, aU 'notices (whether it be announcements by clubs or activities or .requests for iid¢s or advertising for books or whatever) must be put in design~ted places only. This means that any .notices put on academic buildings will be remond mlless they are on the bulletin boards. * * * * LOST: One cat, male, black and silver tiger markings, cute yellow eyes, is called but does not answer to Moonshine. lf found, call Ginger (346.93041. Last .sighted near KA. * * * * Find out about the new ice-skating facility, .as well as other new developments at Union. Student Representatives ·on the Board of Trustees, will inform students about recent Board decisions, at 10 tonight in Strauss Lounge. * * * * The first WRUC radiC:. Club meeting will be Thursday, O~tober H) at 7 pm at the station in l'laskin's Lab, 2nd 'Floor (behind North College). *· * * * There wiH be a short meeting of the, Sailing Club on Thursday, October ifO at 4:30 pm. Old and new members are urged to attend. The meeting will be in the Social Science lounge. If unable to attenc;i, contact SteVe Ktakauer at 370-6620; * * * * Roller Skating, anyone'! Union College Hillel is sponsoring a skating excursion to Schenectady Rollerama. The trip will take place Sunday, Oct. 13 leaving 7:00 pin. and returning at I t:OO p.m. The price is $2.50 for busfare, admission and skate rental. Make reservation.s, call 370-6456 or 372~9759. * * * * The beginning of Union Gollege Hillel lecture series begins with Pr.ofessor Michael Bentwich, whose talk will be on ''Zionism and the Palestinian: ls there a chance for Reconciliation'!\ The lecture is . scheduled for Monday,.October J4, at 8:00 p.m. in SSO·I6. * * * * . The Brothers and Sisters of Phi Sigma Kappa cordially invite you to a Coffeehouse, for the benefit of Cystic FibrQsis on FRIDAY, OCTOBER ll; AT 9:00 P.M. at Phi Sigma Kappa House, (1461 Lenox Rd.) Elf will be featured. All proceeds will go to the National Cystic Fibrosis Research Foundation: · Nixon's Last Day Continued from Pa2e 4 clot in your lung!\ \No silly, I'm not going to get the clot for another month.\ ' \Did someone say he has the clap?.. murmured Gerry,· temporarily aroused from his stupor. ''Go back to sleep, Gerry,\ ordered Dick, \they've gotten us all,. Spiro, me, the only one left is George Allen.\ Julie hurst into the office, followed by David, who was drinking a glass of milk \Daddy I won't let you do it. Hold your ground. Fight them to the death. If the nation wanted a ho11est President, they would have elected McGovern. Don't quit.\ \What do you think, David?\ Dave gave his toothiest smile. '\Well golly .gee sit, I'm so hotlored that you've asked me. l 'thitlk that if anybody tries to remove you from this Qffice, you should take a machine gun and blast their fucking heads off.\ \Thank you, David.\ ·\Dad you. may quit now, but I'll run .in '76. They can take Nixon out ·Of the Whi'te House, but they can't take the White House out of the Nixons.\ \I'll be yo.ur campaign manager,\ volunteered Dick. ''And I'll ·-l'lt-l'll·~\ SHO~ ON JAY STREET For Your Mind Body Soul THE OPEN DOOR BO(>.K SHOP THE COUNTRY KITCHEN . . stammered David. \Watch said Dick and Julie simultaneously. \Ok.ay this is what's goin~ to happen from now on.\ said Gerry in a commanding tone of voice. Dick stopped rolling his marbles, Tricia stopped crying, David stopped slurping his milk. After all, tomorrow this man would be President. \You quit, Oick, and get the blood clot. I'll give you the pardon, appoint Rocky VP so he can donate millions to Julie's '76 . campaign and we'll all live happily ever after.\ \So that's .the story, Gerry?\ they ask~d. \That's the story,\ he said. LeVfS -- • DaYe's Mens Shop 453 State St.: C ow,nt9WA Sc~)·. J 1 1tll~l'O;.i \VE~t;~ ALUA~Y '1/EI~ YORK COR:>I~R OF Ctl:>iTON 1 \~ll '11()~1'11 I'MRL ST. FOR TlfKH·I:WORMATiO'II ('-ILL <>IX14~~·:1.tl,l· Continued from Page 1Z b.ore down on William•s goalie Tracy Macintosh. Macintosh cut off the. angle as best he could, but Deni~ be~t ·.him with a perfect shot JUst ms1de the far post. The game continued deadlocked until, with a little more than ten minutes remaining in the game, Denio again found the mark with a perfect bead off, a corner kick by Jeffries and an assist by Doug Moran. Union's quick start must still be · viewed with cautious enthusiasm Hustling senior halfback Doug Moran harries hapless Yellqwiacke t. · considering their en:atic pll!.Y and the high caliber of the remaining teams on their schedule~ Hamilton and Hobart, their next two opponents, should not be underestimated since they are both vastly improved over last year. So.c.cer J.V.'s Earn Tie . - -· The Onion junior varsity soccer ~quad opened its I 974 season with a I ~I tie at Williams. The Garnet drew first blood on a goal by John Hanson and led 1-0 at the half. The second half was all Williams as the Ephmen dori:rinated·. the tiring Union players. A .good effort in goal by junior Cliff Langweiler, who There are several special events upcoming ()n the· intramural sports calendar; Intramural Coed Volleyball and a Platform Tennis tourne:Y are being planned~ Deadline for the. Volleyball is Oct. 14 and for the Platform Tennis, Oct. 21st. There will be competition in singles, doubles and mixed doubles in the Platform tourney. Registration forms are available at Student Activities., in some cases from R.A.'s and at Alumni Gym. \ FOR LIQUOR AND WINE Try · Jake Lipstein's 464 State Street .~<Q>~~ ' ACE CARD:S ·& GIFTS 175Jay Street (off State) Y oO'll Love Our Image, Gordon Fraser & Paw Print ca·rds. Come See! ~iltlil'flll\' ( k·•j•h•··· l!)th ut ~t:HO i•••• Ill lo.H~ \\ \II \BLI \f !0 \1 \\ l tf.~ Ill \L \q,\tl. 10·\J Wl \ORWI\\\ \1\ljl 'IIU·L 1\lllll·C!)ItUS 1'01.0\Y \1 \II. lllllL 1\ll RH'OiiliS \lUll \(\K . mii·S ((''\Till· Jt\\HHIS ~<'Ill ''I 1 II>' recorded l3 !!aves on the day; allowed the Dutchmen to escape with the 1-J deadlock. The Bill Scan-lon coached team has been hampered by a lack of playing time due to the late start of classes. Coach Scanlon hopes to have his forces in better condition for their next start at Albany State, Oct. 12. Also on the docket t.his fali is a nearest to the pin competition as well as a Punt and Pass competition. The signmup deadline for the golf is Oct. I 5 and ·for the Punt and Pass, Oct. 22. The sign- up sheets will be posted on the intramural bulletin board in Alumni Gym. The finals of the Punt and Pass will be held at halftime of the Nov. 2 football game against Williams. Everyone please support these events, the more the nterrier! SOCCER INTRAMURALS - All rosters must be submitted by all fraternities and independant teams by Friday, Oct. II. Schedules wiil then be available Monday aftern.oon in Coach Scanlons office. INTRAMURALS - For any information concerning schedules or special events, check the intramural belletin board at the South end of Alumni Gym. MENS TENNIS CLUB Anyone interested in the formation of and participation in a mens tennis club, please attend a meeting on Thursday at 4:30 in Str\uss Lounge, Carnegie Hall. Dave's Sc:pire Shop Tues, Thurs 'til9 DOWNTOWN SCHENECT4.DJ: 420 State Street The only store worth shopping q-.J! Our new Epaulet Sport Shirt The sport shirt that's a must for today's contemporary look. Denim color chambray, polyester and cotton. Featuring epaulets, button-throug.h flap pockets, side vents and squared bottom An indispensable shirt to wear for every casual occasion. S.M.L. 13.00 THE OTHER SIDE .·oF .TODAY · ilr\ll'U.S lH.JSKI~ lROY l'it·k<-•s S4.:J4t. s;;; & $().04t \ , .. 11 1\ \' su t•u • s111 t u 11 1ss 135~ 136;137 Jay Street Ope'n Tues.-Sats. . . . ft•liCiu·h•~ .k)ilu r\k•l.ttu~~hlin nrld .k·nfl .. l .. tK·I\nJt~· \Ticket.'O available now.\

SSOI2 Term in which has 1 from your rbook, Hale of the In ingly. ' ·' I I· ' f.J . . I lor a ~ ' l ·\ >l Hoc bert topic I ! I held I . l . The ' ~ : . l ickey I. J i I . ' 7:30 ools'! ','l ' I • t t. 10 ~ ot ' I . ; :· ! ; . .. . II ·. CONCORDJENSIS, Wednesday, October 9, 1974 Page 11 BLITHER. PRE-LAW STUDENTS: The following law school representatives will be available lor swdents in the Political Science offices on the fol.lowing dates: 1) Professor Melvin Shimm, Duke U .: Tues, Oct. 22, 2:30-4:30 p>m. 2) Dean Roy Steinheimer, Washington and Lee: Wed., Oct. 23, 2:00- 4:00 pm. * * * * In order to maintain the attractiveness of our campus and i1ts bui.ldi.ngs, all notices (whether it be announcements by clubs or activities or requests for rides or advertisi>r:~g for books or whatever) must be put in designated places only. This means that any notice~ pwt on academic buildi·ngs wil!l be removed unless they are ol'l the bulletin boards. * * * * Soccer Continued from Page 12 b.ore down on WiHiam's goalie Tracy Macintosh. Macintosh cut off the angle as best he could, but Denio beat him with a perfect shot just inside the far post. The game continued deadlocked until, with a little more than tem minutes remaining in the game, Denio again fouNd the mark with a perfect head off, a corner kick by Jeffries and an assist by Doug Moran. LOST: One cat, male, black and silver tiger markings, cute yclllow eyes, is called but does not answer to Moonshine. II found, caH Ginger (346-9304). Last sighted near KA. * * * * Find out about the new ice-skating facility, as wdl as other new developmeflts at Union. Student Representatives on the Board of Trustees, wiH inform students about recent Board decisions, at J.O tonight in Strauss Lounge. Hustling senior ha{fback Doug Moran harries hapless YeliC?wiacket. Union's quick start must still be viewed with cautious enthusiasm considering their erratic play and the high caliber of the remaining teams on their schedule. Hamilton and Hobart, their next two opponents, should not be underestimated since they are both vastly improved over last year. So c.c e r J. V. 's Earn Tie * * * * The first WRUC radio club meeting will be Thursday, October 10 at 7 pm at the station in Haskin's Lab, 2nd Floor (behind North College). * * * * There will be a short meeting of the Sailing Club on Thursday, October tO at 4:30pm. Old and new members are urged to attend. The meeting wiH he in the Social Science lounge. If unable to attend, contact Steve Krakauer at 370-6620 . * * * * Roller Skating, anyone? Union College Hillel is sponsoring a skating excursion to Schenectady Rollerama. The trip will take place Sunday, Oct. 13 leaving 7:00 pm. and returning at II :00 p.m. The price is $2.50 for busfare, admission and skate rental. Make reservations, call 370-6456 or 372-9759. * * * * The beginning of Union College Hillel lecture series begins with Professor Michael Bentwich, whose talk will be on \Zionism and the Palestinian: Is there a chance tor Reconciliation'?\ 1 he lecture is scheduled for Monday, October 14, at S:OO p.m. in SS0!6. * * * * The Brothers and Sisters of Phi Sigma Kappa cordially invite you to a Coffeehouse, for the benefit of Cystic Fibrosis on FRIDAY, OCTOBER 11; AT 9:00 P.M. at Phi Sigma Kappa House, ( 1461 Lenox Rd.) Elf will be featured. All proceeds will go to the National Cystic Fibrosis Research Foundation. · Nixon's Last Day Continued from Paee 4 clot in your lung!\ \No silly, I'm not going to get the clot for another month.\' \Did someone say he has the clap?\ murmured Gerry, temporarily aroused from his stupor. \Go back to sleep, Gerry,\ ordered Dick, \they've gotten us all, Spiro, me, the only one left is George Allen.\ Julie burst into the office, followed by David, who was drinking a glass of milk. \Daddy I won't let you do it. Hold your ground. Fight them to the death. If the nation wanted a honest President, they would have elected McGovern. Don't quit.\ \What do you think, David?\ Dave gave his toothiest smile. \Well golly gee sir, I'm so honored that you've asked me. I think that if anybody tries to remove you from this office, you should take a machine gun and blast their fucking heads off.\ \Thank you, David.\ .\Dad you may quit now, but I'll run in '76. They can take Nixon out of the White House, but they can't take the White House out of the Nixons.\ stammered David. \Watch said Dick and Julie simultaneously. \Okay this is what's going to happen from now on.\ said Gerry in a commanding tone of voice. Dick stopped rolling his marbles, Tricia stopped crying, David stopped slurping his milk. After all, tomorrow this man would be President. \You quit, Dick, and get the blood clot. I'll give you the pardon, appoint Rocky VP so he can donate millions to Julie's '76 campaign and we'll all live happily ever after.\ \So that's the story, Gerry?\ they asked. \That's the story,\ he said. Dave's Mens Sbop 4S3 State St.- ( ow,nt~ ScheJ1ectacty) · The Union junior varsity soccer squad opened its 1974 season with a 1-1 tie at Williams. The Garnet drew first blood on a goal by John Hanson and led 1-0 at the half. The second half was all Williams as the Ephmen dominated the tiring Union players. A good effort in goal by junior Cliff Langweiler, who There are several special events upcoming on the intramural sports calendar. Intramural Coed Volleyball and a Platform Tennis tourney are being planned. Deadline for the Volileyball is Oct. 14 and for the Platform Tennis, Oct. 21st. There will be competition in singles, doubles and mixed doubles in the Platform tourney. Registration forms are available at Student Activities, in some cases from R.A.'s and at Alumni Gym. ' AND WINE Try Jake Lipstein's ACE CARDS ·& GIFTS 175 J.ay Street (off State) You'll Love Our Image, Gordon Fraser & Paw Print Cards. Co1ne See! ~--- ... nhr! ftq! Ptlt'budiott!l \I'll be your campaign manager,\ volunteered Dick. \And I'll -I'll -I'll-\ / .. lfrr~•t'ttf!l : SHOP ON JAY STREET For Your Mind Body Soul THE OPEN DOOR BOOK SHOP THE COUNTRY KITCHEN THE OTHER SIDE OF .TODAY Th•· 1~-\ L\CI~ Tht•ull•t• l'I!LI\10\ ·111\l!· \lll\\\ \'~\YORK (OR\ HI 01- lll\10\ \\II \OIIllll'l· IRL n I OR Tl{ Kl T I' I OR II \TIO~ ( \lll.;,.ll\!4M·HU ~ahll'flm 0f•inbt•l' mih nd n:no inn lll~ll,\1\lt\IILI II' 11\J\Il < l\.lll\1 \\'l'\11 11\l\ll '\Oitlllil II 11·\11 \IIIli \\II Ill< OIW' <<II 0\\ \1 <1 I Ill ill \\II !Ill Olll>\ \1<1!1 ill'- 11\11 'II 'l.liU Jl'\<1 U II' \Ill \H I Ill\ ttl 111'11 \ 1111~1>.1\ I ltl\ \Ill II Ill Ill '>II 1'111\HI Ill II I\ 135, 136, 137 Jay Street Open Tues.-Sats. fc•nhu•in~ .lolut \1d .. au~hlin and .lt•nh-l.tl(\ nnlt~· \Tickets available now.\ recorded 13 saves on the day, allowed the Dwtchmen to escape with the 1-1 deadlock. The Bill Scanlon coached team has been hampered by a lack of playing time due to the late start of classes. Coach Scanlon hopes to have his forces in better condition for their next start at Albany State, Oct. 12. Also on the docket this fall is a nearest to the pin competition as well as a Punt and Pass competition. The sign-up deadline for the golf is Oct. 15 and for the Punt and Pass, Oct. 22. The sign- up sheets will be posted on the intramural bulletin board in Alumni Gvm. The finals of the Punt and ·Pass will be held at halftime of the Nov. 2 football game against Williams. Everyone please support these events, the more the merrier! SOCCER INTRAMURALS - All rosters must be submitted by all fraternities and independant teams by Friday, Oct. II, Schedules will then be available Monday afternoon m Coach Scanlons office. INTRAMURALS - For any information concerning schedules or special events, check the intramural belletin board at the South end of Alurnni Gym. MENS TENNIS CLUB Anyone interested in the formation of and participation in a mens tennis club, please attend a meeting on Thursday at 4:30 in Str'-'llS!' Lounge, Carnegie Hall. Dave's Squire Shop Tues, Thurs 'til 9 DOWNTOWN SCHENECT/1D 1 420 State Street The only store worth shopping ~!I Our new Epaulet Sport Shirt The sport shirt that's a must for today's contemporary look. Denim color chambray, polyester and cotton. Featuring epaulets, button-through flap pockets, side vents and squared bottom An indispensable shirt to wear for every casual occasion. S.M.L. 13.00

Pagel2 Playing The Field by LYN YELTON It is time our administlators, faculty; and students recognize the fallacy in the women-aren't-worth-it attitudes and give the women's sports program the necessary support. fn 1970, Union became a coeducational institution. Yet, the coUege has d0ne very little over the past five years to provide the women here with the athletic facilities which women at similar coUeges have readHy received. Quite frankly, Union women got the shaft.Things are still rough for the women at Union. The budget is still unbelievably small. Last year, the entire women's sports program was allotted approximately $ WO. Equipment is scarce and often elderly or leftover from the men. How is it that the men are outfitted from helmet to jock strap while the womenare expected <to provide their own uniforms? While the men have individual coaches for each sport and easy access to therapeutic equipment, the women have only one coach a11d most are not even aware of the existence of a trainefs room. Last year. while the women aU. piled into a VW van for away games and ate box dinners during the return trip, men usually traveled in style and were given money for meals. Likewise, men routinely get priority in scheduling team practices while women are compelled to play sports out of season and at inconvenient hours on non-existent practice fields. At the root of the problem is an attitude - entrenched as firmly in the minds of women as of men - that sports are more important for men than for women. The attitude has been supported by a series of circular arguments that have allowed men to run rings around women for years. Women are poorer athletes- even if inferior treatment has made them this way - and they don't deserve the kind of training or equipment given men .... Women's sports don't draw spectators or interest, so there's no reason to give them money or backing .... Besides, women who play athletics are freaks -· they have to be different in order to br~ak the social taboo against women in sports - right? Bullshit! This narrow-mindedness has gone much too far and is still felt too deeply. Even the supposedly open-minded Union students of today ll;t themselves be governed by these traditional and nonsensical values. Instead of supporting the weak and struggling women's sports program, Union remains typically apathetic and uninvolved. Resulting from this show of apathy, many people, especially those in a position to do something to change this sad situation, believe that the women do not warrant a higher budget or more staff. Yet, despite the ineqtJities between the men's and women's budgets, we are not asking for·- equal funding; we are asking only for a basic equality in the programs offered. Naturally, finances are a big problem. Most administrators have been sympathetic to the women's program until they've been asked to part with a littl.e ca~h. Last year they graciously donated $100 for the cause. This year, the women's program will be asking for a shocking $2,000 to field 7-8 teams throughout the year. Perhaps more important than the $2,000 the · women's program may receive this year is the hassles involved in expanding the program from its present club status to the intercollegiate level. Unlike the men's program which is financed directly, the women's program, due to its dub status, must be financed by the Steering Committee. If this could be changed· and the women's sports department all0wed to function as a separate entity, budgeting and policy making would be much easier and mote clearly defined. Clearly, change is inevitable and just. The current situation, with all; its growth and improvements over these past 5 years; remains intolerable. The budget is still wo.rse than pitiful; equipment still inadequate: official attitudes still hostile. Unioh women are n.:>t out to destroy the men's program. We ask only for the opportunity to participate in athletics in the style to v. hich men are accustomed - to share in the enjoyment, relaxation and friendships which develop through sports. Next Monday evening, Sheila Weaver, the new Director of Women's Sports, will be presenting her budget proposal to the Steering Committee for its approval. The meeting is scheduled for Monday evening, October 14th, at 7 p.m. in Hale House Lounge. If perchance this editorial has aroused some reaction from anyone who might still be reading, we ask you to voice your opinion whether it be pro or con, for any response is better than the silence . which seems to have S¢ttled over this entire campus. Editors Note: Since this week's editorial was to deal with the plight ·Of woanen in sports, a topic of current natiota:al interest, the editors felt that an assessment of the situation at Union would be best written by an active woman athlete. Soccer Wins Three Straigh.t rhe Union vwsity soccer team swung into high_.gear last week with two exciting victories over Rochester and Williams. Entering the third wee:k of the season, the Garnet's recotd stands a.t an u nb lem:ished 3-0. Jn the it home opener, Union hosted last year's ECAC finalist, the University of . Rochester. When the dust had finally .cleared, Union was on tbe long _side of a 3: by LEE RI•MSK.¥ and JOII.N BUSTER UD I 11core and the Yellowjackets. had suffered their firs~ defea:t in five contests. _ The early going wl;'ls marked by &ggre1)sive play on both.sides;but then, as he has done so many times before in his ilhistrious Garnet career, forward.. Craig Jeffries toak m~tters into his own hands and poweued Union to victory. At 22:35 in the first half, Jeffries d'tew first blood on an assist fro1n freshman phenom Ge;o.rge. Gapva1!tis. Shortly thereafter, Jeffries hitchkic:ked the ball past t:he surprised R9chester goalie for .another tally,. The goal was set u,p by a forty yard chip froJh a-ging senior fullback Bob Gro.ss·man. Jeffries then completed thdirst half scoring by crossing· a ball to John Denio, who headed it .crisply into the net. Rochester, however, was not licked yet, At the start of t·he second half, they tegis.tered an, early tally and were threatening to add rh ore. If lJ nion's defense had ·not stiffened at that point, the r:inal score might have looked very different. Ht:tt .fullback$ Jim Manning, Jim Bacharach, arrd Bob Grossman •. and goalie Chtis Huban rose to the occasion and ~hut down Rochester's vaunted .offense the rest of the way. The William's contest was not as impressive as Uni.o,n's preceding two conquests. Though they' did manage to overcome a vastly improved Ephman sq,uad, by the score of 2~1, theit plaY was generally l~ckluster. Williams, out to a.v.:enge last year's 5..0 upset drubbing, controlled the middle of the field for most of the game but could not pl,lt the ball into the , goal Union, on the other hand, banged in two scores and barely escaped with the victory. This DerJio-Jeffries combo was good for three goals against· Roches rer. After William's opening goal, the Garnet's first tally came minutes later on an outstanding individual effort by John Denio. Denio beat two fullbacks and Continued on Page ll Gridders .Face Crucial Test by BILL UNDERHILL The · Dutchmen wiJI be attempting to bounce back this weekend against Rochester after s1,1ffering a hard fought loss to Tufts two weeks ago. In their last outing the G~rnet club showed real promise and two Union men, senior running back Ron Westbrook and junior defensive tackle, . Charlie Alter, gained ECAC recognition for their outstanding performances in that game. The Rochester game promises to be a stiff test for the Dutchmen. Rochester has 17 returning s~arters from last season's 6-3 squad which dumped Union 35-0. The score of that game, however, was in no way indicatiVe of the game itself which saw Union's offense generate only 15 yards less than Rochester's. In the past the Yellowjackets have shown themselves to be Frat-Ball The Fraternity Football races are starting to shape up with the perennial contenders riSing to the top once again. Continuing their heate'd riva:Iry last Monday, Sign'la Chi edged out D. Phi 2-0 · on a first half safety. Delta Upsilon battered Phi Sigma Kappa J8-0, running up the highest point total to date. The D. U .'s were venting their frustrations on the undermanned Phi Sig team after a disappointing 6..() loss to a strong Theta Delt team. Also on Manday, K. A. defeated the dauntless Alpha De Its 14-1 L The remainder of the schedule was a series of forfeits and double forfeits. The independent touch football league is now underway. ·Please check your .schedules so that forfeits can be avoided. Results of Independent league action' as well as standings will be covered starting next week. front runners. When they are having a winning season or they are winning a game it becomes extremely difficult .to catch them. If, however, you get the jump on them, the Ye'llowjackets rnay fold as they did in their 45..0 'loss to Williams last weekend. Coach Everling feels that the key to Saturday's game will be the Dutchmen's ability to pressttre the Rochestet quarterback and the defensive coverage afforded by our secondary. Rochester threw· the ball 44 times in the first . outing; however, Union yielded only 54 passing yards to a very able Tuffs passing attack. Whether or not the Yellowjackets can stop Union's explosive running attack remains to be seen. The Garnet .running attack could, hewever, be below par this week because star offensive taekle Richie '\Bubba\ BurreU will miss Satutday's game and Ron W:estbroo k is listed as a doubtful startec. \There are three thin[fs_ everybody thinks .he can do better than the other fe-lk>w ... build a jlre, run a hotel,. and coach afoothall team;\. R. Riggins Volul need I Mem Store Vol As enroll! becorn about studer There the ConstJ enahli financ disad' Colle~ stud 1 backg 'Unio11 Jay Stude along terme1 progr: who 1 to at such reaso1 and s PrtJ expla woulc d ispe associ Fa I progr mino1 AD.< Ho Thi: and t Coffet prov enter!< The Frida, Chap; with The origin now 1 will appea (proi11 and partr synth1 Toget Orr Oi

·vol .. 3, No. 1 ~ :Edltots Prer.og alive . by lspy This new year is arising, but after sleeping so long over the summer, especially on that full stomach of unfinished business and undigested· ideas, it has gotten quite .sluggish and fat with dormant concepts. Plus, walcing up to the cla~s .of 1978 freshmen, we'll have to do everything in our power to keep it from rolling over and going back to sleep. 1 guess we'll just have to wake up the year with a nice hot breakfast of thought, fresh and modified. This one Black campus/ community newspaper which hOpes to serve as the catalyst which will shake some pedestals, pop some bubbles and step on .some toes, .and, maybe even set things straight at the. end of the confusuion> When thoughts a~ too much with us, there can be a backbreaking shoulder slumping side effect, and wflen We don~t provide ourselves with vents for frustrations, we start shaking and _()Ur pipes start . ' · clanking until we build up to a pressure saturated breaki11g point. ~ow, we are all·about sanity here, college is supposed to make us, not break us, and community?s purpose is to ease the pain of those crac.ks t-hat we inevitably. will suffer while running the race, in school or on the job. Per~pective, by presenting news and analysis, hopefully serves the Black community's movement for change specifically, and people more generally,. as its contribution for bringing about that better world. To do this effectively we have some very immediate needs: people to help qs write produce and distribute the newspaper, and photographers. If you think you can write, or edit, type, do lay-out, come by the Information Center in your free time. If you have a~cess to a car and want to .help get this newspaper to its readers, we'd love to have you. Again, even if you just want to explode, or send out a cry for help, or just step ()n some body's blue suede shoes, feel free,' cause it aU falls under the title of education and we all could use another helping of that. Jay King, new co-director A.O.C., and assistant Dean of Students. Artwork by Bobby D. In the past years we never heard much from the Black .community in Schenectady, or any other communities that have been exposed to Perspective. l'm willing to wager that it is because of the wide gap carve4 between us an y'all due to location, lack of transportation and the freezing cold weather. Or the seeming winter hibernation of Black. folk. Of course, it could he our breath, i.e. our collective bre1:1th that you hear floating out of Union as far as foreign attitudes g() to~ the tri- city area: .. Where's the Black party people! Why can't 1 find no Ultra Sheen!\Enough complajnts to foul anybody's breath. I am now going to make an inv.itation for all of us to sto,p· yellin ••Hey\ over the backyard fence, and to invite each other in for some coffee or rum and coke and a neighborly talk. Y hear that Skidmore? Siena'? , R.P.I.? And you people of color at SUNY? The BSA intends to have open house soon, and when We do, we hope to see all of y'all. Right, Hamilton Hill? BL-ackfield in Moti·on by MARILYN BECTON It should pe clearly evident to the most .. non-athletic\ eye, that another 'football ;season h'as fa11en upon us. Fans of the Dutchmen are well aware of the dismal 2-6 record the team ra~::ked up last year. But this year appears to be somewht different as the Dutchmen possess a l .q record at t.l1is time. The first game of the season was played in unfavorable Attica Brother Found Dead · weather conditions, as torrents of . ram made the playing field resemble the Florida Everglades. Yet the Dutchmen prevailed in their sea;on opener ~Y ·.squeaking past Worcester Poltechnic Institute by a score of 7-6. Union's lone touchdown came on a 46 yard run by Leonard Lee. In the game, Leonard, a sophomore, picked up a total of Ill yards in 28 carries, while senior co•captain Ron Westbrook picked up 86 yards in the season opener; Ron hroke the career rushing record of Joe James. James finished out his Suicide? It was reported that on September 13, 1974, Attica Brother Duke Johnson was found dead from a gunshot wound in Los Angeles, California. Three years ago to the day, Brother Duke and 1500 other Attica , brothers stood fast in D Yard of Attica Prison., stood together even against the hail of sta:te troopers' gunfire. - Now Brother Duke joins his Brothers who were killed on the 13th 3 years ago. , The circumstances surrounding HERE WE GO AGAIN What?? WelL . . for all those who don't know what's going down, it's time for a change, a revisi()n, or a revolution?? Should the Black Students Alliance have a name change?? Basically, a name does not make an organization. Many of the upperclass members of the HSA stress the goals, aims, purpose and future of the organizations. Maybe it is true to assume that a change of name would attract more minority stlideltts O:;partish speaking, Continued on Page B . his death in 1974 can only be described as speculative. The police have described the death as a suicide. But those who remember and know of the full history ·of those involved in the Attica Uprising know well of the illegitimacy of any state report. In 1971, the official report by then N.Y.. State governor Nelson Rockefeller stated that persons had been killed by the Brothers, when in fact it was .proved by the offical autopsy that the N.Y. _ _. State Police had kiTied aU those who died on the 13th of ' September. We state now that we will not accept the findings of the police in California. We remember__all too well the lies propagated by the state concerning '!he Attica massacre, the lies which were released as fact by officials following the deaths of our fallen comrades Fred Hampton, Mark Clarkj and George Jackson. We will attempt to ilse any resources available to us to find out t.he truth about how Brother Duke died. We accept this responsibility in the same way that we have accepted the responsibility to investigate the State of N.Y. for its murder of at least 43 persons three years ago. · lal\en from press rele~se of Sept. 24, by the Attica Brothers Legal Defense. '. \.\. ~-~ ..;, ,•·:-~~~· Senior tri-captain Ronald Westbrook watches the ··v\ in action. Odober 9, 1974 Old Face • lD N,ew Position by GLORIA JONES . Sister: Hey Man! Did you hear'! They got a replacement for teRoy! Hrother: Oh, Yea! You know who he is? Sister: Nope. One thing, I sure hope he's nice. Hrother: Hope!! You mean he better be goo4! Let's go check this dude out now! 0JlCe in the office, Knock, knock. Voice behind the door: Come in! Brother and Sister: It's Jay!! Yes, Jay King is now in LeRoy's office. His official title is Assistant Dean of Students and Co-Director of A.O.C. students. Jay was ·born in Boston, Mass. and he obtained his Associate Degree a.t Newton College. Jay is. ~till a-ttending Union and he will obtain his B.S. in the Winter term. Jay majored in Psychology, he loves to play ping pong, (and he is very deadly at it), and chess. He he also <Ill expert on the art of self defense. Jay has also worked during the summer as an A.O.C. rutot. When asked what his plans were, Jay outlined these seven points: I: lo enlighten Facultv. Administration and stu~ent .body Continued on Page D career with a total of 1 ,494 yards, while Ron surpassed it with a total of l ,504 yards. The second game of the '74 campaign was a heartbreaking 28- 23 loss to Tufts. Westbrook was Union's big offensive weapon as he exploded for three touchdowns in the game.\ So offensively, Union is looking much better this year, why? My personal opinion is an abundance of talent in the hackfield, in the persons of the \Dynamic Duo\ Ronald Westbrook, and Leonard Duane Lee. l{onald Westbrook is a 21 year old resident of Holyoke, Massachusetts. He has been involved in organized football and other sports for about 8 yeats. As a football player he has showed his athletic versatility by playing offensive halfback and defensive cornerback. In his last year of high school, Ron was chosen as captain of his team, helped lead them to an undefeated season,and led his team and conference in scoring with a total of 308 points. Although Ron has received many honors for his play in football, his talents in baseball and basketball haven't exactly gone unnoticed. With very high scholastic and athletic abilities it goes without ·saying that Ron had many offers to attend other colleges and universities. Schools such as Columbia, Brown, and University -of Massachusetts recognized the various potentials in this young man, yet Ron chose Union College. Why? Ron chose Union hecause of the academic prowess of the school, and because his Continued on Page C

' i j .I j . . ( ' ~- . i ' '~ d . ' t .. Vol. 3, No.I Editorqs Prerogatile by lspy This new year is arising, but after sleeping so long over the summer, especially on that full stomach of unfinished business and undigested ideas, it has gotten quite sluggish and fat with dormant concepts. Plus, waking up to the class of !978 freshmen, we'll have to do everything in our power to keep it from rolling over and going back to sleep, I guess we'll just have to wake up the year with a nice hot breakfast of thought, fresh and medified. This one Black campus/community newspaper which hopes to serve as t·he catalyst which will shake some pedestals, pop some bubbles and step on some toes, and, maybe even set things straight at the end of the cenfusuion. When thoughts are too much with us, there can be a backbreaking shoulder slumping side effect, and when we don't provide ourselves with vents for frustrations, we start shaking and our pipes start · clanking until we build up to a pressure saturated breaking point. Now, we are all about sanity here, college is supposed to make us, not break us, and community's purpose is to ease the pain of those cracks that we inevitably will suffer while running the race, in school or on the job. Perspective, by presenting news and analysis, hopefully serves the Black community's movement far change specifically, and people more generally, as its contribution for bringing about that better world. To do this effectively we have some very immediate needs: people to help us write produce and distribute the newspaper, and photographers. If you think you can write, or edit, type, do lay-out, come by the Information Center in your free time. If you have access to a car and want to help get this newspaper to its readers, we'd love to have you. Again, even if you just want to explode, or send out a cry for help, or just step on some body's blue suede shoes, feel free, cause it all falls under ·the title of education· and we all could use another helping of that. In the past years we never heard much from the Black community in Schenectady, or any other communities that have been exposed to Perspective. I'm willing to wager that it is because of the wide gap carved between us an y'all due to location. lack of transportation and the freezing cold weather. Or the seeming winter hibernation of Black folk. Of course, it could be our breath, i.e. our collective breath that you hear floating out of Union as far as fa reign attitudes go to_ the tri- city area: \Where's the Black party people! Why can't I find no Ultra Sheen!\Enough complaints to foul anybody's breath. I am now going to make an invitation for all of us to stop yellin \Hey\ over the backyard fence, and to invite each other in for some coffee or rum and coke and a neighborly talk. Y hear that Skidmore? Siena'? , R.P.l.? And you people of color at SUNY? The BSA intends to have open house soon, and when we do, we hope to see all of y'all. Right, Hamilton Hill? Attica Brother Found Dead Suic,ide? It was reported that on September 13, 1974, Attica Brother Duke Johnson was found dead from a gunshot wound in Los Angeles, California. Three years ago to the day, Brother Duke and 1500 other Attica hrothers stood fast in D Yard of Attica Prison, stood together even against the hail of state troopers' gunfire. Now Brother Duke joins his Brothers who were killed on the 13th 3 years ago. lhe circumstances surrounding HERE WE GO AGAIN What?? Well. .. for all those who don't know what's going down, it's time for a change, a revision, or a revolution?? Should the Black Students Alliance have a name change'!? Basically, a name does not make an organization. Many of the upperclass members of the BS A stress the goals, aims, purpose and future of the organizations. Maybe it is true to assume that a change of na1ne would attract more minority :-;tudertts (spanish speak lng, Continued on Page B his death in 1974 can only be described as speculative. The police have described the death as a suicide. But those who remember and know of the full history of those involved in the Attica Uprising know well of the illegitimacy of any state report. In 1971, the official report by then ~.Y. State governor Nelson Rockefeller stated that persons had been killed by the Brothers, when in fact it was proved by the offical autopsy that the N.Y. State Police had killed all those who died on the 13th of September. We state now that we will not accept the findings of the police in California. We remember all too well the lies propagated by the state concerning the Attica massacre, the lies which were released as fact by officials following the deaths of our fallen comrades Fred Hampton, Mark Clark, and George Jackson. We will attempt to use any resources available to us to find out the truth about how Brother Duke died. We accept this responsibility in the same way that we have accepted the responsibility to investigate the State of N.Y. for its murder of at least 43 persons thvee years ago. laken from press release of Sept. 24, by the Attica Brothers l.egal Defense. Jay King, new co-director of A.O.C., and assistant Dean of Students. Artwork by Bobby D. BL -ackfield in Motion by MARILYN BECTON It should be clearly evident to the most \non-athletic\ eye, that another football season lias fallen upon us. Fans of the Dutchmen are well aware of the dismal 2-6 record the team racked up last year. But this year appears to be ~omewht different as the Dutchmen possess a 1.:.1 record at this time. r he first game of the season was played in unfavorable weather conditions, as torrents of ram made the playing field resemble the Florida. Everglades. Yet the Dutchmen prevailed in their season opener by squeaking past Worcester Poltechnic Institute by a score of 7-6. tJnion's lone touchdown came on u 46 yard run by Le(>nard Lee. In the game, Leonard, 11. sophomore, picked up a total of Ill yards in 2g carries, while senicr co-ca pta in Ron Westbrook picked up 86 yards in the season {)pener; Ron hroke the cafeer rushing record of Joe James. James finished out his Senior tri-captain Ronald Westhrook watches the \[)\ in action. October 9, 1974 Old Face • 1n New P.osition by GLORIA JONES Sister: Hey Man! Did you hear'! They got a replacement for LeRoy! Brother: Oh, Yea! You know who he is? Sister: Nope. One thing, 1 sure hope he's nice. Brother; Hope!! You mean he better be good! Let's go check this dude out now! Once in the office, Knock, knock. Voice behind the door: Come in! Brother and Sister: It's Jay!! Yes, Jay King is now in LeRoy's office. His official title is Assistant Dean of Students and Co-Director of A.O.C. students. Jay was born in Boston, Mass. and he obtained his Associate Degree at Newton College. Jay is still attending Union and he will obtain his B.S. in the Winter term. Jay majored in Psychology, he loves to play ping pong, (and he is \cry deadly at it), and chess. He he also an expert on the art of self defense. Jay has also worked during the summer as an A.O.C. tutor. When asked what his plans v.ere, Jay outlined these seven points: 1: To enlighten Facultv. Administration and stu~ent body Continued on Page D career with a total of I ,494 yards, while Ron surpassed it with a total of I ,504 yards. I he second game of the '74 campaign was a heartbreaking 28- 23 loss to Tufts. Westbrook was llnion's big offensive weapon as he exploded for three touchdowns in the game.\ So offensively, Union is looking much better this year, \\.by'? My personal opinion is an abundance of talent in the hackfield. in the persons of the \Dynamic Duo\ Ronald Westbrook, and Leonard Duane I ee. Ronald West brook is a 21 year old resident of Holvoke, Massachusetts. He has · been involved in organized football and other sports for about 8 years. As a football player he has ~howed his athletic versatility by playing offensive halfback and defensive cornerback. In his last year of high school, Ron was dwsen as captain of his team, helped lead them to an undefeated season,and led his team and conference in scoring with a total of 308 points. Although Ron has received many honors for his play in football, his talents in baseball and basketball haven't exactly gone unnoticed. With very high scholastic and athletic abilities it goes without ~aying that Ron had manY offers to attend other colleges and universtttes. Schools such as Columhia, Brown, and llniversitv of Massachusetts recognized th~ \arious potentials in this young man, yet Ron chose Union College. Why'! Ron chose Union hecause of the academic prowess of the school, and because his Continued on Page C

Page .(J PERSP'ECTIVE. Wednesday; October 9, 1974. Credo I LETTE.RS To the Editor: We consider the nomination of It is important for the Alliance that its leaders state their Nelson Rockefeller a.s Vice philosophies and motivations. By doing so, we will not only be able to President of the United States by understand their actions in the Union context, buto#}e leaders will be the new non-elected President able to act as teacher/students to encourage establis1unent of a unified Gerald Ford to be an act of Black student dialectic. That will be the first step in defining national criminal hypocrisy. goals and priorities for Black people. As representatives for the The condition of Black people in america is such that said Attica Brothers, we understand conditions sl10uld be radically aitered. (ImpliCit in my anaLysis is. that too clearly the history of the vice- the american system that is respansible for the plight of Black .people presidential nominee. Three years is responsible, also, for the .oppressed condition <>f Indian .• Puerto ago this Sept~mber, Nelson Rican, Chicano, poor white and other \minority\ peoples .. Their Rockefeller ignored the urgings of conditions, too, should be changed.} alae}( people cannot live as \the obs~rver~ and refused .to come moral, just or free people in this country, unless they take steps to to Atttca m . N~w . ~ork; that bring about change in their condition. That is my main concern,. and I ref~sal. cou~l~d. wtth hts order for hope that all my decisions are viewed in that light. the state mth~ry. assaul~ on the The Black Students' Alliance can play a part in the struggles of una~ed men tnstde Atttca, c~st Black ,people. For one thing, we must work to make sure that Union the hv7s of 43 . people. As chtef produces some lawyers, doctors, computer oper!J,tors and teachets Who executwe of the St~t~,.Rockefeller will work far the good of Black communities, We cart support that aim held . ~uH responstb.thty for the by making the stay of Black students here comfortable spiritually, cond·ttlons of Att·tca, for the embtionally and socially. The Black House serves to take care of most massacr~, a~J,d for the cover~up of sacial and emotional needs, but we need to assist our.spiritual aspects. ~hos: pn~es. Three s~~arate, state First, we must work to unify all parts of the Black student 1 n9umes mto t~e upns.m~ Ytel<;led community. · ev1den~e of senous cnmmal acts Secondly, we must learn how to work efficiently in eur c_om~utted by .. state ag~nt.s. The comm.unities. w. e can do this by supporti. ng the. work of Persp(lctive, .AS pe~. tal MhcKay Commtsbston . 0 .hn P ·IM·EG d ·h I f . · c 1 dd' .' k'. ··h . tttca, t ·e report · y t e , an. .t e n ormation enter. n a IUon, wor mg Wlt · our G. . 1 d 1 . d' . 1 ·p . 1 . d. h· annual-Talent Show, or working with the M,iss Black Metroland {' 0 d.mun / t~cta S ~ne Can t t ~ Pag. eant will be in the same vein. But other p'rojects are possible as Am mgsl 0 11 e . tda. e t. dour thot · b · h · . · · ppea s, a m 1ca e a we 0 ll, and t~eyd 1 ohnot .have; tod, em t e comF~nunAttrd· 1 . A h . responsibility for the events of ne proJect· . ave 1h mm 1s to start a trst 1 c ass. · not er IS to A· t·t · -th ·nd 'tt' ·n t·h· k h I f · · h · .. d · 1ca . e co 1 o s, e wor to ave at .east one non-party unction wtt our Sister an· massacre, and the brUtal brother scho~ls Sktdmor~ and.RPL . . aftermath, must be laid to state A last proJect I have. m mmd .1s to work m suc.h. a way as to get officials. Instead, 62 Attica Bla.c~ . stude~~s to reah~e that, m order t? estaoltsh a defendable Brothers were charged in a,n defmttio~ of Bl~ckness, we mu_st lea.rn t~ hst~n to each other: I plan attempt to make scape.goats far to do thts by domg the same thi??• hstenmg, m order to achieve my the RockefeUer administration. primary goal: chan~ing the. cond1.t10n of Bl~ck p~ople .. I hope that ~H Attica is ~ot however the only members. of the Alhan~e wtll be mtere.sted 1~ .ta;k~ng an act~ve part m instance of governmental the ~arkmgs of the Alhaace b~ suggestmg, ~rttJcJsmg and dm?g. . m isc ond u ct during t h~ Ftnally, I pla~ to work to .brmg about umty among the Th.Jrd World Rockefeller administration. His students at Ull~on, a~d to mcrease the numbers of all Thtrd World lack of concern for the poor and students attendmg Unwn. . black peop:k: in this state, his Thomas J. Watts, Co-Chauman 1974-75. demand for repressive drug laws, PERSPECTIVE STAFF lsidra Person, Editor Glor!a V. Jones; Marilyn Becton; Thomas Watts; Bobby Davis, Cartoonist; Bill Collins, Photography; Utamu, Poetess-in-Residence; 'Vette Simmons, typist. Special thanks to Gail, Phylliss, Ron. arid his placing of an intolerable tax burden upon its citizens are clearly other prime examples. The whole history of Rockefeller's \public service\ is proof of the hypocrisy of the decision by the President. We are outraged at this action and deplore the fact that political ' \llusifiess as usual\ goes on in Washington. We urge all persons to join with us in protesting the nomination. Pat Murray Media Coordinator Attica Brothers Le..:al Defense Provost Willard Enteman Union College Schenectady, New York 12308 Dear Sir: It was with extreme regret that I learned . of the resignation of Mrs. Antoinette Reid, Director of the AOC Tutorial Services on the Union College Campus. Because of my feeling for this woman and because of the circumstances · surrounding her resignation, I feel it necessary to write this letter to you and to request that some sort , of investigation into the matter be conducted. Her departure from t~e College is, I fear, irrevocable';· h<nvev~r. it would :be in the best interests of the student .body .at lar,ge and for the college as a viable institution for all students ta p~:event the Io!ii$ of such a perso.n as Mrs. Reid from happening again. Her departure was ~ompletety unnecessary. ~~~en 1 beg~n my studie~ at HnioB, Mrs •. Reid was one of the first ~~ople I met. Since that time, I've &pent many pleasur~tble l:tours a't her hom¢ With tier family, lhrotiglt mY f.our yeat$ at the College, Mrs, Reid gave me rt1t1ch J1elp just hy being · there in l:ter offi<:e or at howe to talk to. J: tan remen:lbet three distinct times duringmy sc;:nior year when I was ready to quit, leaving. my senior thesis 1m done. Mrs. Reid was one of the main people who kept p,usf:lit~;g me to finish and my gradu~tion in June of 1971 is due In .no small riieasure to her. When I speak to other peopie about her, I call ·her my adopted tn,other upstate, N ()t everyone who has met Mts. Reid bas liked her. 1hat makes her h·uma-n. However, of one thing you can be certain,, and that is. that the $tudents' best interes~ have always been ·close to her heart and she has always acted 071 it. If you were to canvass student:s who have come into contact with ber during her year.s at tile .College, 1 know you will find tli~t this is so. · ' .Same Ole .. ~ t:ontrary to , popular belief. under that hl.mpy g~eY facade of stucco,. Union College, ever-so- . $libtley, is still practicing racism. Thi~ misnomered college ought to think about bei,ng about truth and- changing its name to Disunity U.ni:v:ersity. Here at Disunity University, there is hardly a day that goes by ·that the subject .of racism isn't discussed. We even have a few hopefuls who thihlc tha't the .panel discussions are beneficial to r.acial .ungerstanding a>nd, _Jhat we're, going .to be favorably iqflueneed by a whole lot af talk. Blata;nt tacisln is unhearq of (so far thi!! year). So,, what's wrong? ,Jf's that duU pain of ~ubt1e racism, that . refined hatre~which, comes as a bon•us of edUcation; making it a· fine .art, not easHy defina'ble. For -t:ny first prime -example of this,. it is the request for Black and minority writers by Concordy, . and a·t ,the same time an obvious lack of enthusiasm in cov¢rage of Black Folk's positive activities on campus in the newspaper. Let a Nigger .get rowdy and \ve got coverage; let a talented Black :person star in the limelight and white npses- show their Mstrils. 1 mean, When Wa~ the last time Union's football team g9t three touchdowns in one game, let alone the same player making them? So when Ron·· Westbrook scored three big ones in the Tufts As, I understand the situation, game, where was his limelight! Mrs. Reid's contract for the lieU, the Schenectady Gazette comi.ng year was not offered to- gives mare enthusiastic. coverage. her until a date long after it Just because there a-re 75 guys on would bave been possible to c;lo the t~.am does that mean we need so. Th~ is a terrible manner in three papers to cover it? A pat on · which to treat someone who has fhe back won't be no skin off been w.ith the college for as long anyone's as&. as Mrs. Reid has been. Also; her Prime exarnple number two: new ilttihediate superior, Mark Union Book. The Union Book Smith, Dean of Students, lias was supposed to be featuring the never visited het office or ca'lled class of '74;the same class which her to his office in order to came in a year after V nion's discuss her work with the stUClents notorious, \Year of the Black\. in an att:empt to find out from her Do you think that their ownlipswhatshewasdoing.One gra·duatiocn ·· W@utd ... be 'can only assurr,e that uhless he comt'neinorated by the union relied ·c>n the' hearsay of other Book? Pages 180 and 181 show people, ite knew nothing_ofwhat no Black gtaduati'ng · faces. she was dQing. Further, it is ·nty Irrelevant,. in my opinion, pictures unde~tanding that it was planned which could have featured that ber office would be moved someone wiih 'V-hotn l could have into the same building as Dean . identified with fil~ed pages 42and Smith's. From my owfi 'Continued o~ PageC experiences at Union; this would have been a death knell for the work being done by Mrs. Reid because many students would hesitat{! .and/ or stop coming .to see her since site would be so clase t., r~cognized adrninistr/iltion figurehettds. Q.ne, .pf the keys to her suce~ss with the students was that :he~ office was somew.liat of a refuge from the rest of the College, ~hich is both necessary and goocl. As I s..aid earlier, I fear Mrs. Reid's departure from the V nion College C Cim m unity i·s irrevoc~b.le. The treatment she lias suffered has gone too deep; causing her many ,sleepless and -- - - - ----- tearf1;ll nights. In the jnterests or the. students; it is most important th~t het resignation. and the ¢vents [eadin~ to h be examined so that any corrections that need to be· made can be done and so that the ,students need not suffer such an upnecessary .foss again. Awaiting your replyt I remain - Michel Williams - To tbe Editor, -....===...-~--=====----- Sister lsidra, 1 cannot help but be glad that you are the new Here We Go Again Continued from Page A oriental, and indian). Did everyone know th,at the constitution of the BSA clearly states that anyone who is a Union College Student may join? Some of us would like to know why do the minority students of other nationalities hold their heads down rather thean speak/look you in the eye and kec;:p on passing/ ignore me when I say hello. I can ren1ember hearing someone say, \Why are they trying to pass off for white? Are all the minority students on campus concerned about the changing of the BSA name?\ This brings to mind the controversy the first time Black Power was uttered aloud. Tit~ defintion was debated constantly. It has beeen exolained thousands of times in thausands of ways: Your 'ignorance is showinJ;t ........ l\lie .wordHLACKis the key point of controversy. Do you know what BLACK, is???'!'!???'! Black includes aU· people of \Color\ ,_ all third world students. Remember black is not a color; it is a concept of awareness. How can one get so hung-up on words? Did I hear someone imply that t 11 e B SA w a s a t a c i st organization? - Gail Cbatmail . • L run by 'Black engineers stationed in Scheiiectady. The brothers running t~e project are· from all over tin US: ,Detroit, Norfolk, Howard University, Tuskegee and other Bla.<:k colleges. Last May, the Alliance invited · Mr. (;ayle is asking the some community people to Alliance to: l. prov.ide hack•up present some ideas about how tutors. in the sciences {PIMEO Bla'?k students at Union might be · will provide most of the science able to help the community and and math tutoring); 2. provide a offer their services. Out of that few lang\lll,ge, English and history meeting, plans were made with tutors; J. help With the college Mr. Charlie Gayle to have the guidance c<>unseling; and 4. Alliance assist with General provide. illost importantly, people Electric;s PIMEG project. to dire~t study~projects ,designe~ PIMEG is a project aimed at to :broaden a student's intellectual S chen ectad y'·s ruin 0 ri ty , interests- Suggested projects are population ·- basically Black ·- having students work with to enter the engineering field. Perspective, or' the lnformation PIMEG takes selected Black high telJter; 11aving a student work on school students to give them a Spanish J>lay; helping a student special tutorial services, college- put on a pl!otography exhibit; ot bound guidance counseling, and a help so1neone build a computer, general idea about what it means This is an endeavor that will to be a scientist or engineer. The benefit the community, but will project is funded by GE, and is not take Up too muGh time. lnterestec:l J)eople should contact Thomas Watts. · editor of out newspaper. I wish you a far greater sUcGess than I had during my term .as editor. I C is hnporta.4lt that, t·he Black Students' Alliance, as well as all Black organizations, have Black .women in leadership mles. We should ,not have them as leaders because : they ' are women, of cou,rse, but because as equal recipients of american oppression as are Black tnen. As We are cast down and stepped upon equally, so must .we struggle ·- equally ,_ to remove ourselves from under the boot. · . I stand ready to devote all my energies to fmtheting the success • of Perspective under your leadership. During the days that poet Gill Scott~fletan calls \Winter in America,'' I hope that Union's Black student body, and the Schenectv'. :ommunity, are willing and ahle to do the same. Yours in th.: struggle, Thomas J. Watts 43, b ~7, E don't Iik;e anon: and l Chec .gets · ass i (noth pictu haPPl track page came peopl empt: No I am on No' was desig1 mem( I sup the c< ~ay, ' remer doing rhc shoulc are ir The J were l thoug can g here l:l were distin, artful congl• the \ later, (as a numb racial air eu they we'd newsr bucki , lhey fD( !.Or f)() FOi

,. .. of' ism. and nity by few cial ere, eed hat Qat s a t a it of on il nd . I 's e n . s j. PERSPECTIVE~ Wednesday,. OctQber 9, 1974 Page C SallleOle ••• Bhtckfield i.- Motio11 Continued from P*'ge A Continued from Page B brother had attentled Union. 43, bottom .of 44. 49, bottqm. _of Although. Ron would like to ~7, ETC. And, the $ports pictures participate in professional s.port$, don't even show those faces y·ou'd preferrably baseb~ll, he realizes _ like to ·remember, but Plenty .t.hat a good education is a must in anonymous blacks. are shown, our society .today. and I don't mean running backs. la:st year was somewhat . 0 f ·a Check ()Ut pag~ 80; Who 'the hell disappointment for I) nion's · gets the p-rivilege of showing his .football team. Ron feels the ass in print? lf it's Dave R ic'ks reasons for the poor showing · .(nothing persona;J Dave). then one inclu(ied: inexperienced ,players, picture is sufficient. What and the fact that Union was going happ~ned to the two female B'lack through a rehuildi!'lg process. · track run.riers in the picture on For the .past three years kon page 79? (Have they develeped a has had to bear the brunt in earner~ · which igno~es Black · Union's rushing, department. people!) Not to; mentton all the However, this year will be empty space· Whtchcouldhave l':t ·different with t:lte advent ef No Place to Be Somebody sit Leonard' Lee in the Dutchmen's among the .other school p.la,Ys. backfield. Ron f~els .that with the . Now 1 thm;fght the Union Book was a yearboak which was desigttecl: to preserve nostalgic memories .• but in twenty years am I supposed to blow the dust Qff the cover, open up the Book and ~ay, ''Oh, thafs Raggedy Ann, 1 remember ·her. Wonder what she's doing now?\ .. l'he 1970 Union Book~ ·f~r one should be a model for those who are in ch&rge of the staff now, The pictures, contributions, etc. were all fitted i11 significantly, and t;hough I was not here that year, I can grasp just what Wf\S going on here a:t Union. The senior pictures were aq:ompanied hy distinguishing quotes, and th.e artful pliotegraphy was not just a congl<;>m.eration of who can snap the weirdest pose.. Four years later, we get half the recognition (as a Black .student body), yet our numbers have increased, a.nd racial attitudes have had time to air Ol!t. And white people act llke they ju~t can't understand why we'd ever want to have separate newspapers, and why we are bucking for our own yearbook. , I hey actually wonder why. running. a_bility of 'Leonard, the opposing defense won1t key on hint as muth, as. th~Y: have i.fi the past. Upon graduation Ron would· like · to p.tirsue a career in professiona,J ha~eball. Yet, we know that whatever endeavors Mr. Westbrook chooses to follow, .he wiU ovetwhdmingly succeed in them. Now for a look at th·e second half of the \Dynamic Duo,\ Leonard Duane Lee . teonard is a if9 year old · sophomore froin Cla:irton, Pen!'l., who greatly· ·enjoys ·partiCipating •in team sports. Leonard has been playing football for . appro}l'imately 7 years. In his senior yea'F .of high. school, he was made team captain, . .and, dJosen as his f m>tball .squad's m.ost valuable player. Leonard being a true lfthlete, ,has shoWed his versatility in foiltball by playing seven different p~sitions. The positions in cl'ade guar.d, . truarterback, half·back, outside linebacker, inside linebackers, ~afety, and returned kickoffs and punts, but his favorite position is offens·ive halfback. I. ike other athletes Le.oilard has v.aried interes;ts in other sports. While .. in high school, he also played bas'ke.tball, and , ran outdoor track. ... With a11 this going l'o~ him schoQls· such as Penn State, Pittsb.u.rgh., VillanQVa, and other a·tll'letieall~ known· univer~ities tr·ied to obtain Leonard's services.Yet, Leonard, an intelligent young man, came to the realization that because of his small size, his chances were slim in attaining a starting role, with any rnajor college power. Leonard weiii on to say that because Union was in a smaller eonference, his chances were much better for a. starting role. Leonard, a biolpgy 'major, would like to pursue a career in medicine, upon his graduation from Union. But .l;,efore he leaves Union College, Leonard would like to help lead Union i.n. having a championship tea.m .. And if Mt. Westbrook art(,'! Mr. Lee's running ability maintains that high degree of excellence, Leonard's dream may become .a reality sooner than he ,,,.,..,. Pendulum Swings During Orientation week there were a number of panel discussions held in Memorial Chapel. Open for discqssion were academic pressure$ students may or may not face here at Union; social life at the college; twhetber it exists or not,), and the main topic of discussion. I tbink 1 was the existing relationships between the Black minority students and •he white students, When I first arrived on campus there seemed to be a difference in atmosphere. I sensed a warmth lacking when l left for the summer. 1 sensed a change that was about to corne to Union College. Lee gets blocking Westbrook in W.P.I. game. What type of change did I feel? I felt that the college was going to try and improve the racial attitudes that have been on this campus for quite some time .. I had the · feeling that a desperate attempt to ease racial tensions was. going to be made. On my first attendance to one of the panel discussions I began to think of the first feeling I had when l returned to school for another year. After listening to the panel members and the attending students I left memorial Chapel feeling that maybe Union College stands the chance of purifying itself of being a racist institution. Well. I wanted to find out for sure, so I continued to attend the panel discussions. Each panelist put forth his views about certain topics. Some of the audience's reactions were worthwhile. The. final discussion came up with ~uggestions and were left open for leedback as to definite ways of improving racial conditions on campus. l'hese discussions can be our milestones in our efforts to make Union College a more relaxed environment. Union College's color· pendulum seems to be !<Winging (or trying to swing) equally between the Black minority and white students in the community. l would think Union College should get a \T\ for trying, Hut, as one student pointed out at one of the panel meetings, we musn't let it stop here! We must each put forth an individual effort if a cha·nge is to come about. h mustn't be a forced effort either, hecause force can sometimes lead to negative ends. Phyll!ss James IDa Vol::' Rtsr ASSUttf:.D.· THA\t ~toUR (Oll.EGf forPLOMA Yylll SECIJRE · ,JOB YOV SECK ? V\/AS YQ(JH COLLE.6E. EXPERIENCE. BE:.NE.fiCIAL to YOU~ OllTl,.OOK ON: UFE.? ~-- ' ., .. - • 1 ,r .. .... _-· ; .. .-· ~·: DO YQU F\E.;tl 'Y\)lJ. HAVE. RKCE.!VtO WttAT YOUR FOUR Y~'\RS or:· tiARC> HAVE. .EARNED? DO YOU Ft~L A~ lr YOUR COLLEGE. E.XPERIE:NCE.. WA.S TH PAYtNG-1.2.0,000 FOR? •' l i if f \ I \ ··• 3

Black is knowing that being called \Brother or Sister\ does not re.fer to any member of a monastery or convent. Black is knowing that the \'Soul Train\ is not a train headed for the capitol of Korea ... And that getting on the .. goodfoot has nothi11g to do with being cripple. Hlack is knowing that Lady Day refers to the Lady of the blues and not to any day set aside fQr women. Black is knowing that Super Fly is not the cousin of Atom Ant. Hlack is knowing that the Ali Shuffle has nothing to do with dealing cards. ·Black is knowing that ••bad\ is really very good ... , And that \heavy\ cannot be measured by a cup or a spoon. Black is knowing that \Black Ivory\ is not on a piano .... And the .. Dramatics is not a thespian art. Hlack is knowing that a colored person must be one colored with crayons... because i·t certainly can't refer to you, Black is not having to define Blackness ... but knowing that you are. UTAMU \ ;~:4;~1~'?~:;· .. ,~ ;'~:::~::~ .;;._.~~~rw.:r -f < - ... ~~ ·- ' ,.,. ... '\ :··o,\\ • •. \>\\' • ,1 ~1:- .. ·~~,.,·~~·r-··...-.;,.~\1!:}~--· '~ • )('. ~~ -·'.: .. ··. ; .. ·. :~~ ·\ ·\ -·. . . .,. ~ _ .. '- :· . ....... ~-. ;<• • j. ., ,I~\\·, .• -;··. ·: ~-\ :~ i • .• ! ••. ., ··.-~:~:r:..-.. . \·.· :~ ':.- -i\. ·,; .;:. .. :-,. ~ . ~- .. .. . . r J . n G[NOClD[ tB[C:Owl[SJ Pf\TRIOT15M. 1\llKKJ GIOVANNI ANYTHANG GOES boiler spoiler and after a quick peak at the leak in the basement he said, .. it's nothing: Ma.intenan~ will soon be by\. Security and his shivering shadow masqueraded as a unit of heat and· hot wat~r near.ly blew its temper Tue~day night setting a frightening mood scampered from \them folks\. a student's roPm began to tremor and shake reminding her of a semitripping earthquake. not waiting to find out why or how then quickly, out of the cool spit:it of the night, it was, oh yes, those mighty saviors dte Red Rangers of Sch'dy! With lights flashing from crimson trucks, feet running, axes bared, the student released a siren-like !tow! \.Vhile .making her escape down tlte hall were directed to the mechanical. volcanoe that was preparing to erupt ... now the boiler spoiler wasted no time the poundings became. louder the tremors began to s.pread waiting ... deliberation, waiting ... but tltose living ·in the House were not yet dead from the abnormal heat, vapor and sounds \Well what's it gonna do, man? Is the boiler spoiler going to blow?\ One reply was, \It's possible. as the boiler spoiler made its rounds It's a wonder that it didn't explode.\ the R:ed Rangers, with their quick draw ' 4 call security\ was a rrervous cry . and while impatiently waiting for them to arrive we were told that the boiler spoiler on their hatchets and. caps, hacked dowll the door waded; through the mist ·of steanl was getting mighty bold (and that we might also find ourselves out m the cold) turned off the hnt water and left, their duty complete. When, pending upon the boiler spoiler's obsession to conquer;:. (juided by a flashlight and a wrench in one hand, a person strolled in and said, \Maintenance Man!\ Security sauntered by Utamu- \'the .vweet , one Continued from Page A to the disposition of mmority students. 2: To irnprovise and expand the supportive services to Union students. 3: To increase funds available to minority students. 4: To increase the recreational and social options receptive to minority students. 5: To increase the number of minority students in Union. 6: To improve curriculum such that it is llo longer guilty of omiting the effort and donations of minority persons to American :-ociety in general. 7: in general, to make the atmosphere at U niori College more corilfortable and rewarding tor the entire assemblage. WeU, it loOks like Jay has his hands full for .the year. His door is always open for those who have problems or who just want to talk, so don't feel :-hy. ~~~~~~ .... ~ we of the Black Student ~ -~ Allian. ce w.oul.d like. to.· ex. tend·~··. 2i our warmest congratulations . to Mr. and Mrs. Curtis Rowe · on the recent birth of a son, ~ Curtis Rowe, Jr. ij I ·.~~ ··························••!. • • • • 1 The next deadline for I 1 Perspective is Sunday, I • October 20. Send all I I contributions to lsidra Person I• I in Hickok House. The phone • I number is 372-9772. 1 . . . . .. ···························-~ MIXTURES Yellow plus Red is Orange Yellow plus Blue is Green Yellow plus more Blue is !itill Green We all understand this because this we've all seen Black plus White is Black Black plus more White is still Black We don't always understand this cause some of us is trying to cross the track In other Words that 99% . white iri you my man don't even get you over the line Your light skin you can't change. To you Jay, We wish you all the:· luck in the world. • 1 SO BLACKENIZE YOUR MIND. llTAMU Separati ...... __ .. letter to a Man Black angel: \fou are . for me a mind sustaining force. Your love is an i1ivisible but omnipresent dome of strength that allows me to avoid all that is not beautiful in a lilly white atmosphere. of unwelcbme. Your love is my innerglow, my ' radiance, my confidence, my pride and my inner peace. To give aU that is me is only a minute part of what you, my ltlan should have. If only J give you a bij of peace and an infinitum of love I feel as if Fve aeheived but little. If I give ,You more, then I know it is not nearly as much as you give to me. Hlack angel, you are me. We are one. The quintescence of oriel1ess is us. This oneness cannot he destroyed if it is oneness. Therefore distance cannot mar a love that is as strong as diamond, as unique as platinum itself. So my man do what must be done. He a black king for me. Go where you must go. And know that I, your queen will s(ill be one with you for as long as we need be apart. I am yours~incoinplete without you. lfTAMU ** .Oy Th nvot of a a:n a Presi· for U he \i press 11e la.t As so• Cour in J Aven of fief rea so deals ~due~ Bonn his c; was. unive Be ASS()l Cour Unio Gehr com~ Iobb~ instit and T'hey Augt open ef th conti Ac rease to b: !he 1 n1ake foun• impn impn It Unio impo OCCUI more occu Presi Unio reviv, l'he have funct 'llVeJ; cduc: other topic attra4 n mau! Presi state opt in a su arts. voca1 that in th futur real!) havir agree with ~pol<1 the ii statei other well F sk;aJ oth ,!Je.v~ · Sos' Stuj Boa s.ttlll deci Od1 ~

Volun!eetli lti'e clesper~i Jely , . needed to ~olcJ up the Nott : · Memorial. Jnqpire at tlu~ )lqok • Store. · · Announdng ·the Concordiensis Eliphalet Nott Look-Alike . Contest. Entrants will be exami11ed Humeeon1ing weekend at the lop of the Nott Memorial. \He k~ows_.not-Ms own strength that hath not met with adversity\ ~ Ftancis Bacon Vol. 104, No. 3 ·wedne~day, Octob~r 16,.1974 35 cents . . ' . ·, . K d '·1'1' ... 1ng an·.· Ht·• Discuss AOC Financial Aid :Crunch! by JUDY OEIN As the statistics concer.ning enrollment at Union College become known, mail·y complaints about the lack of a divetse student body have been voi~;ed~. There is a program here, however, t~e ~cad~m~· . Opport~niti~s l ons.ortiunt {A,Q.C.), whtch IS enabling students who an~ financially and academically disadvantaged to attend Union College, and therefore bring students .with different backgrounds,. and .. values into Union CoUege. Jay King, Assistant {)ean of Students and head: of the A.Q.C. along with Carlos. Hill. has termed the purpose of the program to be helping students, who would not normally be able to attend a private inslitution such as Union for v.arious reasons, .. to survive academically and socially.\ Probably the best way to explain\ \the A.O.C. program would be to mention and then d ispell some the rumors associated with the organization. Fallacy #l: The A.O.C. program is only for black and minority students. In reality A.O.C. is ·geared towards helping This weekend is Homecoming, and the Social Committee and Coffeehouse have combined to provide the musical entertainment. The coffeehouse will present on Friday night, at 8:30 in Old Chapel, Goebel and Lang, along with Union's Ruth Rappaport. The Goebel and Lang duo, originally from the Midwest, but now playing in the Boston area, will be making their first appearance at Union. Bill Goebel (pronounced Cable) p·lays electric and acoustic . guitar, and his partner Jim Lang plays synthesizer, piano, a:nd organ. Together, they'll bring a different Continued on P~ge 6 .j all financially and educationally disad:vantaged students regardless of ·~race, ~;reed or. cdlor.'; Of the 14 freshmen presently enrolled iH the program, only se.ven ;1re black. It is ttue, however, that .!Jay and Carlos do have special ia.ter:ests in the problems faced by minority students in a predominantly white school They are working with-the H<la.ck Student Alliance in planning events; budgets and special programs. · Both Jay and Carlos feel the need. to increase minority student enrollment. A more diverse student body would force students to try to understand and interact with people of different hackgrou!lds, experiences and values, and would, consequently, help all involved mature socially. Jay feels. that blacks come to Union with more knowledge of white culture than whites have of black culture simply because blacks cannot live in America without associating with whites, while whites can live without interacting with blacks. He does fee.l, however, that there are varying degrees of ignorance on aU $ides, and everyone has a lot to learn. . Fallacy #2: Carlos Hill and Jay King are ,considered by students to be \administrators and therefore cannot re.late to st.uclents. From the steady flow of stwients into their offices, it certainly seem~ as if Carlos and Jay are .. re,lating~' to the students. Endowment Reels in Stock Market Part of their jobs a~ Assistant Sp~cial to Concordiensis Deans of Students and head of Ihe Dow Jones continues to the A.O.C. is to help anyone with ~tide downward each day and as it emotional or financial problems ~tides it has a direct .effect on (finanCial problems meaning an union College and union explanation after the student has ~tudents. just spent all afternoon with Mr: Dale Timberlake, the Treasurer Maras and still doesn't nf Union College, mentioned - understand why he's not getting three ways in which the college the money he needs.)Their doors rtnd its students are being are open to all students, affected. Gifts, expecially gifts for regardless of whether or not they capital improvement (building), .are involved in the A.O;C .. are given througl:t stocks that program. have appreciated in value. The two Assistant Deans, Through this method, l! giver can Continued on Page 5 contribute more to the college ·,....:., .. · ..... ~~'!;;·' ;_; It' \\8 then he originally paid, does not have to · pay taxe~ on the appreciated stock, and also gets tax credits when he gives. With the slide in the stock market, this ~ource of giving has virtually dried up. Though Mr. Timberlake could give no exact figure; he indicated that the amount of lost income was not to be scoffed at. Secondly, much of the endowment is in stocks. The value of the ·endowment 'has decreased from $20,863;000 to $18,.765,00(). This includes the $900,000 gift receiv~d last yeat from the Strong Estate. 'fhough the gross va.\lue of the stocks bas decreased, the dividends ·have not, and the earning power of the endowment has not decreased. Thirdly, many parents saved for their children:s college educations through the purchase of stocks. Timberlake states. \I would think many parents who planned to defray the costs for college through securities now have twice the burden.\ Steering Committee by LAURIE COHEN Urawing and Passing Water: South College in 1867 found two favorite \points of relief,\ one for quenching a thrist on the right, and replenishing mother earth in the background President Broomes called the meeting to order at 7:00 on October 14 and Margie Collen front the Women's Caucus made an appeal for better campus lighting and tighter security. Ms. Cohen had conducted a lighting survey on campus last Spring. Plans were made to purchase more lights. A, representative from O.E. was called in to ad-vise on which types of tights would be most attractive, and tht): Trustees ('ontinued on Pa~e 4 by JONATHAN SCHEER The College Scholarship Service, a coml:l)ittee which determines what part of a student's tuition h.is · family can provide, has announced tha·t it plans to reinterpret its evaluation process so that the percent of tuition ·a middle class student's family is expected to pvo'tide will be lowered. This altered financial need structure, a l:llove favoring t'he middle income group, is des•igned to counter an inflationary trend which has been most damaging to this section of the population. The proposed action is quickly becoming a controversial issue. President Thomas Bonner, in an excl!lsive interview with Concordiensis, stated that he agreed in principle with the proposed change, hut retained certain reservations concerning implementation of the plan. What will result from this alteration in policy, maintained Bonner, is an estimated $400,000 a year added financial aid cost to the college. Bonner hinted that the money may be raised through a tuition increase, although other . alternatives have heen discussed, including a reductioh of financial aid to Union upperc.lassmen. From a purely financial viewpoint, the major objection is that instead of implementing the plan over a period of years, the entire burden on the financial aid budget w.ill be concentrated in one fiscal year. Secondly, Bonner confirmed that the revision in CSS policy will have the likely effect of increasing the number of middle class itl(:ome group applicants, which may have the effect of pressuring the college to accept more students whose families can afford to pay a larger percentage of tuition at the Continued on Page 9 Candid ate Speaks by JACK PITNEY Jose Ristorucci, Communist Party candidate for governor of New York, said Monday that the main purpose of his campaign was not to capture the statehouse, hut to provide a real alternative to the major parties. I In a lecture in SSI15 sponsored by Political Forum. the candidate conceded that his ticket is \not going to get elected.\ Nevertheless, he urged the audience of 30 \to vote independent of the Democrats and Republicans and to choose the most meaningful protest vote on the ballot - tile Communist Party.\ Ristorucci observed that the other parties had tried to keep the Communists off the ballot on the grounds that many of the 23,000 signatures on their nominating petition were invalid. He called the situation \ironic\. because in Continued on Page U

·~Qt ..• Gtmttnr·lli-8. ·~· you said it Editors-in-chief. ............................ Chris O'Conner Rob Mondsch.ein Culture Editor ..................................... Peter Sobol Features Editor .................................. John Scheer . Sports Editors .............................. Kevin Crawford Bill 0 nderhill Photo Editors ................................... Bob Johnson Ellen Radack Danny McMa!lamon GrapJlic Arts Editor .......................... BobJehnson Managing Editor .......................... Doug Carpenter Contributing Editors ............................. Judy Dein · Fred Weinstein Historical Editor ...................................... Bill Talis Business Manager ..................... , ....... Jennifer Port National Advertising .......................... Steve Kelley Subscriptions Editor .............................. Lisa Tietz Art Staff ............ :...................... Marianna Petrik Jill Dannenberg Staff: Audrey 'Rothchild, Janet Chapman,. Lee Schwartz, Doug Carpenter, Phyllis Edelman, Rick Ford, Bill Plaus, Sam Hughes CONCORDIENSIS is published every Wednesday by the student body of Union College, Old Gym Hall, Schenectady, N.Y. Publications Office: The Jewish World Publications, 771 State St., Schenectady, N.Y. U307 (346-2356 ). Entered in the Schenectady Post Office as Second Class Matter. Subscription Rate 35 cents per copy. $8.00 a year delivel'ed anywhere in the l'Jnited States. turn the lights on - It is lo·ng since time to do something about the poor lighting on campus. This issue has been under study for far too long, and s~me semble·nce ofaetion is-now required. For almost two years, one group or another has be~n analyzing, studying, or surv~ying the need for improved campus lighting. That process is still underway, and we are told that action is forthcoming, right after this most rec.ent survey is completed. We do not care to try to .. !lssig~_p.Iame here. That is not improtant. What is important is the large number of people who are afraid to walk across this campus at night .. If \l~.arning to live together with a sense of belonging\ truly is a major goal of the college, it will remain· an unrealized goal as long as this type of fear exists. Somebody, please turn on some lights? hooray for the library There will be an Open House this Saturday at Schaffer Library to dedicate, in an informal manner, the new library extension. Mr. and Mrs. Henry Schaffer will be at the Open House in order to meet with students and faculty. We urge the whole college community to turn out for this occasion. The library of a college is one r of its 'chief main-stays in providing quality education. Union College's library is an I excellent libr~ry. Now with the extension it is even better. The person who deserves a great deal of the credit for providing Union with this quality facility is Henry Schaffer. We hope that others who also know the contribution that Mr. Schaffer has added to this college will come to the Open House and personally tell him. The editors of Concordiensis wish to express our thanks to Mr. Schaffer for all that he has done to improve Union College. stucco profs · 'Editors, Concordiensis: With all the senseless stuccoing of buildings and streams to improve the physical environment here at Unian, let me make a constructive suggestion that .is bound to improve the academic environment. I suggest, quite earnestly, that if a teacher is judg¢d consistently to be lacking (i.e. a Linebacker cuin below 2.00), that he be brough.t hefor~ an elected hoard, tried. and if found guilty of high crimes against the student body, be stuccoed Union Grey. Let us then have a hall of stuccoed not-so- greats to retain humility in every professor, and inspire respect in the student for the remaining few. It cannot help but to get the faculty more on its toes; <;'tenure\ would be a sentence instead of a sinecure. Skip Singer 363 F()X apology Editors, Concprdiensis: I find it regrettable that my first piece for the Conc()rdiensis snould be so thoroughly misunderstood. The colurnn was conceived, written and sllbmitted as a satire, and.was taken as such by most everyone I have spoken to. Had I set out to write a factual article, Mr. Schmidt, please rest assured that I would not \deliberately misrepresertt facts,\ as this type of journalism i~ cornpletely abhorrent.and foreign to me. l certainly did not mean to offend, and as it appears 1 did, I m~,>st sincerely apol(;gize. · · .. Dan Rosenbaum Editors, Concordiensis: According to last week's enthusiastic appraisal by Editor Mondschein, Union is about to embark on the P.R. road to salvation. With professional help Union· seeks greater reco~nition · and a higher media profile which will result in increased funding and improved admissions. Bully! Maybe Haldeman was right after all. Perhaps what you are and what you do don't count as long .as what you say you are and what you say you do are pac-kaged right. Obviously Harvard and Oxford are preeminent due to superior P.R. Union· has (above aU) the !acuity and. the plant worthy of a great small college. But does it have the guts? Let's all make Union a school worthy of national interest and respect. Let's not follow Richard Nixon's example and try and buy an image of what we~d like to become. Joseph Bedell. '76 apathy \·······•··:·:·:·:•:•:•!•:•:•:•:v:•:•:•:·:~:·:•:•:•:•:•:·:~:·:•:•:•:•:•:•:•:•:•:•:•::::::::::::::::::::::::z:::::::::::::::::::::::~::::::::::::::;::::::::!:::::::~::::: :~;('•E·l~~ti;;~; ... ~iit\. b~ ... h~id\. ;;~· members of th~ .c!ass of ' 7 ~ to the !lii Editors, Concordiensis: j;j;November 5, for t.he two class. of St~dent. Activities .. Office by ~;j: 1 am taking this opport11nity to ::::78 positions on the Steermg Fnday, Nov_. L Petlttons m~~ _be :=~hvrite about the apparent total !l!jCommittee. The Ste~r~'!g picked up 10 Studen~ ActlVltles;j:;apathy ~hown by the student !;!;Committee. has the responst?l!tty (Old. Gym Hall, ftrst . floor)!;j;populatiort in failing to live up to ;:;:of respondmg to student optmon startmg Tht.lrSd~y, Oct? bet 17 · ~=!·its commitments. Specifically, I ;!;iby recommending action to the The electton ttself wtll be held !=l:am referring to the roller-skating :;:!All College Senate, as well as the in the Strauss. Lounge ~[ the ;:::event scheduled by the Hillel llljres~onsibilit~ of overseeing the College Center, .from 9 A to 9 il!jorganization. ::::enttre commtttee system. PM, on Tue~d~y. ~ovember 5 · ;:;:. We often hear . students 1:1: To be placed on the baJI?t; a R~n-off elections; If necessary~ ;:;:coillplaitt of the lack of sig!lificant :;:;candidate must present ~ pe,ttpon~ wrl~ h,e 1 he~d o.n. Thurs~~y, Nov. 7 • ~::!social eVents that Union College ;:;:with the signatures of l05_.3.1~~-~.~-~~~~~.s.s ... b21!.?,~~:.:;.~ ••... ~-:. •... : .. •.·~;:c.)t· its various organizations ·:~.·.· .. ~.-&\•\•\•'•'•'•'•'•:·:--:·:·:·:·:·:·:·:·:·:·:·:·:·:·:·:·:·:·:·:·:·::::::::~:·:·!~:·:·:·:·:·:·:·:·:·:·:·:·:·:·:·:·:!'l·:·:·:~:·.··-········. 4 ··' '£ 1 1 1 1 1 1 ,. 1 ' 1 '•'•'•'•'•\e 1 e 1 t 1 t 1 1 1 • 1 6 I ' I 1 I I I • 'I ' I* I ' I I prr;vide .. Hillel for its part has tried, to the limit of its financial capa'bility, to provide the entire campus with social even_ts, significant speakers, and various entertainment. Unfortunately, most students have failed to take advantage of these functions. The turnout at tonight's. roller-sl<ating event· was particularly apathetic. What is worse though, is those people who make a commitment to come and then flaunt this commitment by not coming. Tonight's attendance was under 40% of the total sig-ned up in advance. When this happens, significant financial losses are incurred by the organization sponsoring the event. Naturally, this serves to discourage future events from being· planned and the whole cam.p11s is the poorer for it. As a member of Hillel and of Union College, I hope that there will be a far better showing of people next time there is an event such as this and that those people who sign up will indeed attend. lf people cannot meet a commitment,. l doubt whether Hillel; or any organization for\ that matter, will be willing to make a financial commitment and we will have less, instead of more opportunities for social life at Union. Steven Glazer Editors, Concordiensis: I have rarely been as embarrassed by any action of Union College as I was .this·'past weekend (10-12-74). On the main bulletin board outside the security office an event was listed for Saturday evening as a mixer with Skidmore. In Union's. Week the same event was again listed as a mixer with Skidmore. Most upperclassmen realize that the Skidmore campus probably had little, if any, knowledge of our mixer. However, if you are a freshman who might believe everything he or she r.eads in the calendar of events, you would be quite shocked to find zero Skidmore people at the mixer with Skidmore (which you paid $1.50 to get into). ·this brings up a second embarrassing point; I have never been to a dante at Skidmore where I had to pay to get in. In .tact, almost all the. dances had free drinks, in addition to free admission. What does our social fee of$25 per term do for us? To top off my embarrassment, as I stepped outside for a breath of fresh air during the 'mixer', l was greeted by two carloads of Skidmore women, several of whom l knew. Most were freshmen, however, and it was their first trip to our campus. Can yoti understand what it is like to explain to a group of Skiddys (who t·he weekend before attended a free mixer and party at Williams) that they had to pay $1.50 to get into their own mixer? I decided to. let the fact that drinks weren't free be an additiertal surprise. Asking one of· the ticket takers if Skidmore people had to pay to get in elicited a biting \Yes this isn't an official mixer.\ I would hope that Union can afford to treat Skidmore with something approaching respect in the future. Mark Massey '77 disgusted Editors, Concotdiensis: This letter is coming to you from five very upset, disgusted people, who have the honor of being Hillers. executive hoard for this year. We are upset with everyone on this campus~ and with good reason. When we began this year, we resolved that H-illel was not just gaing to be concerned with ourselves and our fellow Jews, but that we would take an active part in· helping to m~ake Union a better place for everyone. It is well known that ohe of the major problems faced by Union students is lack of meaningful social events. We congratulate the Social Committee for their hard work, and by no means do we wish to undermine them. We merely wi~h to provide Hillel sponsored social events as an addition to the social opportunities available to the Union student body. So why should we be so Upset? Take, for example, this past Sunday night. Hillel sponsored a rollerskating party at Rollerama, the roller rink here in town. We arm~unced it two weeks .in advance, and had a note on it in 'Blither' of last week's Concordiensis, not to mention many posters and even a spot on WRUC's community calendar, which is read every two hours. In . addition to all of this, members of Hillel personally knocked. on every door in •Fox, Davidson, Richmond, and parts ofWest and South, reminding people of this event, and taking reservations. And the sad thing is that from all the people visited, and ~rom the rest of the campus too, only 38 people signed up for our event. O.K., maybe ro.llerskating is not THE most ·popular recreational activity, and maybe Sunday evening is not THE best time to have such an event, but surely out of more than 2000 students, more than 38 can be expected to c0me. But that's not the worst of it! We proceeded to order a 40 seat bus, and mll,de reservations at Rollera.ma for 40 people· at their reduced group rate. Sunday night arrived, and the number ofpeople that showed up was less than 20. 'That meant that we would lose meney on the bus renfaJ, and also lose our group rate, because the minimum for that is 25 people. In any event, we went, and everyone had. a really good time. But why was it neGessary for Hillel to lose $31.00 for the evening? Because people are afraid to make commitments·! And half the people who do make commitments back out of them, usually at someone else's expense.· All we can say is that it is 1 disheartening to us to think that Union College students are like this. The trend, if oile really exists, must be reVersed NOW! Not only. for us, not only for the fine Social Committee, but for YOU,·and for Union College. In the future, we hope that when Hillell or any other organization sponsors an event for the whole campus, that it will be well attended, and that those who do make reservntions keep their commitments. It is early in the year, arid we are optimistic that this will not continue to plague our school. Please, think about, and let us all reselve to do something about it. now! David Weinstein '77, pres. Cindy You~g '74 Bob Kaslovsky '77 Ben Rubin '78 Jay Leberman '78 Ed. note: Social Committee Chairman Chris Fink stated that the Social Committee never intended the dance to be a mixer; their posters did not advertise it as such. Further, beer will cost ~5¢ at aU Social Committee functions from now on; this way, says Fink, far.less beer e.nds .. ~P. ~n t~-;,~flo.~r-..\·~~~.ti•:-.·_a:.:.·--~ ,· .... ~ *'·:t-i i='T ~ .. ·.:..~r~\\'Jc;· . .- »- :.i: ... . ,_.~. ~ .. L •. r:.t.c.o~-.t .... ~\·r ..... ,..\.-u~ ........ , F, our Sun• grea in 1 a ltli1 brui A Ben: I Sra.i nigl Pal~ char lr man men com the To Fr'id Stra serv and plac 0 Hilh DIN Hou Kos. 0 T re er te pl ar pr m C{ SIJ in

Page.2 CONCORDIENSJS, Wednesday, Oct. 16, 1974 • C!tmtrsr~~Utmts ·you said it ~~ Editors-in-chief.. ........................... Chris O'Connor Rob Mondschein Culture Editor ...................................... Peter Sobol Features Editor .................................. John Scheer Sports Editors .............................. Kevin Crawford Bill Underhill Photo Editors ................................... Bob Johnson Ellen Radack Danny McManamon Graphic Arts Editor .......................... Bob Johnson Managing Editor .......................... Doug Carpenter Contributing Editors ............................. Judy Dein Fred Weinstein H' r· I Ed' . · · tsto 1ca · Itor ...................................... BIII T::~lls Business Manager ............................. Jennifer Port National Advertising .......................... Steve Kelley Subscriptions Editor .............................. Lisa Tietz Art Staff................................... Marianna Petrik Jill Dannenberg Staff: Audrey· Rothchild, Janet Chapman, Lee Schwartz, Doug Carpenter, Phyllis Edelman, Rick Ford, Bill Plaus, Sam Hughes CONCORDIENSIS is published every Wednesday by the student body of Union College, Old Gym Hall, Schenectady, N.Y. Publications Office: The Jewish World Publications, 771 State St., Schenectady, N.Y. 12307 (346-2356). Entered in the Schenectady Post Office as Second Class Matter. Subscription Rate 35 cents per copy. $8.00 a year delivered anywhere in the United States. turn the lights on It is long since time to do something about the poor lighting on campus. This issue has been under study for far too long, and some semblence of action is now required. For almost two years, one group or another has bee.n analyzing, studying, or surveying the need for improved campus lighting. That process 1s still underway, and we are told that action is forthcoming, right after this most recent survey is completed. We do not care to try to assign_ blame here. That is not improtant. What is important is the large number of people who are afraid to walk across this cam pus at night. 1f \learning to live together with a sense of belonging\ truly is a major goal of the college, it will remain an unrealized goal as long as this type of fear exists. Somebody, please turn on some lights? hooray for the library There will be an Open House this Saturday at Schaffer Library to dedicate, in an informal manner, the new library extension. Mr. and Mrs. Henry Schaffer will be at the Open House in order to meet with students and faculty. We urge the whole college community to turn out for this occasion. The library of a college is one ' of its chief main-stays in providing quality education. Union College's library is an I excellent library. Now with the extension it is even better. The person who deserves a great deal of the credit for providing Union with this quality facility is Henry Schaffer. We hope that others who also know the contribution that Mr. Schaffer has added to this college will come to the Open House and personally tell him. The editors of Concordiensis wish to express our thanks to Mr. Schaffer for all that he has done to improve Union College. stucco profs Editors, Conco~diensi§: With aH the senseless stuccoing of bui<Jdings and streams to improve the physicalenviroament here at Union, let me make a constructive suggestion that is bound to improve the academic environment. I suggest, quite earnestly, that if a teacher is judged consistently to be lacking (i.e. a Linebacker cum below 2.00), that he be brought before an elected board, tried, and if found guilty of high crimes against the student body, be stuccoed Union Grey. Let us then have a hall of stuccoed not-so- greats to retain humility in every professor, and inspire respect in the sttldent for the remaining few. It cannot help but to get the faculty more on i,ts toes; \temire\ would be a sentence instead of a sinecure. Skip Singer 363 Fox apo~logy Editors, Concordiensis: I find it regrettable that my first piece for tl~e Concordiensis should be so thoroughly misunderstood. The column was conceived, written and submitted as a satire, and was taken as such by most everyone I have spoken to. Had I set out to write a factual article, Mr. Schmidt, please rest assured that I would not \deliberately misrepresent facts,\ as this type of journalism is completely abhorrent and foreign to me. I certainly did not meaR to offend, and as it appears I did, I most sincerely apologize. Dan Rosenbaum public relations Editors, Concordiensis: According to last week's enthusiastic appraisal by Editor Mondschein, Union is about to embark on the P.R. road to salvation. With professional help Union seeks greater recognition and a higher media profile which will result in increased funding and improved admissions. Bully! Maybe Haldeman was right after all. Perhaps what you are and what you do don't count as long as what you say you are and what you say you do are packaged right. Obviously Harvard and Oxford ue preeminent due to superior P.R. Union has (above all) the faculty and the plant worthy of a great small college. But does it have the guts? Let's all make Union a school worthy of national interest and respect. Let's not follow Richard Nixon's example and try and buy an image of what we'd like to i:lecome. .Jose.ph Bedell '76 apathy ............................. ·-· .................. ·. ·,·. · ........ · ... · ... · ....... · .... · ... ·.·.:. :·· ·:. :·: ·:·:·:·:·:·:·: ·:·:. :·:•: ·:· :·•··· r:·:·:~:j~~;=;~~~:·:·:·~~j:;:·:·:t~·:·:·:~·~;r:·:·~~····~~-~~b~~~-·~t~·h.t~!:~~. ~·r :7~· ~;; 'tt1c'j1~~ Editors, Concordiensis: ;:;;November 5, for the two ~lass. of St~dent ActiVIties .. Office by;:;: 1 am taking this opportunity to :;:;n~ positions on the Stee~mg fnday, Nov: l.,Petltwns m~~ .b~:;::write about the apparent total :;:;committee. The Ste~n~g p1cked ~p In S,tuden~ ~ctiVItles;;:;apathy shown by the student :;:;committee has the responsi?I~Ity (Old CJym Hall, first floor);::; population in failing to live up to ;:;:of responding to student opmron startmg I h~rsd~y, Oct~lber 17 · :;::its commitments. Specifically, I ;:;;by recommending action to the . lhe el~ctJOn Itself will be. held;:::am referring to the roller-skating ;:;:All College Senate, as well as the ~~ the ~trauss Lounge of the;:;:event scheduled hy the Hillel :;::responsibility .of overseeing the (ollege (e~ter, from 9 AM to 9;;::nrganization. :;:;entire committee system. PM, on I uc~day, ~ovembc~ 5 · ;!;: We often hear students :;:; To be placed on the hall<?t, a R~n-off electw~s, If, necessary, ;:;:complain of the lack of significant :;:;candidate must present a petition Will ~e h~ld on I hursday, Nov. 7 • :;::social events that Union College provide. Hillel for its part has tried, to the limit of ils financial c~pability, to provide the entire campl!ls with social events, significant .speakers, and various entertainment. Unfortunately, most studeRts have fai,led to take advamtage of these functions. The turnout at tonight's roHer-skating event· was particularly apathetic. What is worse though, is those people who make a commitment to come and then flaunt this commitment by not coming. Tonight's attendance was l!lnder 40% of the total signed up in advaRce. When this happens, significant financial losses are incurred by the organization sponsoring the event. Nattualily, this serves to discourage future events from beiRg planned and the whole campus is the poorer for it. As a member of Hillel and of Union College, I hope that there will be a far better showing of people next time there is an event smch as this and that those people who sign up wHI indeed attend. If p eo pl e cannot meet a commitment, I doubt whether Hillel, or any organization for' that matter, will be willing to make a fina11cial commitment and we wil:l have less, instead of more opportunities for social life at Union. Steven Glazer what mixer? Editors. Concordiensis: I have rarely been ~s embarrassed by any action of Union College as I was this past weekend (10-12-74). OR the main bulletin board outside the security office an event was listed for Saturday evening as a mixer with Skidmore. In Union's Week the same event was again listed as a mixer with Skidmore. Most upperclassmen realize that the Skidmore campus probably had little, if any, knowledge of our mixer. However, if you are a fresh rna n who might believe everything he or she reads in the calendar of events, you would be 4 uite shocked to find zero Skidmore people at the mixer with Skidmore (which you paid $1.50 to get into). I his brings up a second embarrassing point; I have never been to a dance at Skidmore where I had to pay to get in. In fact, almost all the dances had free drinks, in addition to free admission. What does our social fee of $25 per term do for us? To top off my embarrassment, as I stepped outside for a breath of fresh air during the 'mixer', I was greeted by two carloads of Skidmore women, several of whom I knew. Most were freshmen, however, and it was their first trip to our campus. Can you understand what it is like to explain to a group of Skiddys (who the weekend before attended a free mixer and party at Wi,Jiiams) that they had to pay $1.50 to get into their own mixer? I decided to. let the fact that drinks weren't free be an additional surprise. Asking one of the ticket takers if Skidmore people had to pay to get in elicited a hiting \Yes. this isn't an official mixer.\ I would hope that linion can afford to treat Skidmore with something approaching respect in the future. Mark Massey '77 Ed. note: Social Committee ('hairman Chris Fink stated that the Social Committee never intended the dance t<> be a mixer; their posters did not advertise it as such. Further, beer will cost 25Q: at all Social Committee functions from now on; this way, ~ays Fink,Jar less beer ends up on disgusted Editors, Concordiensis: This letter is coming to you from five very upset, disgusted people, who have the h.onor of being Hillel's executive beard for this year. We are upset with everyone on this campus, and with good reason. When we began this year, we resolved that Hillel was not just going to be concerned with ourselves and our feUow Jews, but that we would take an active part in helping to mpke Union a better place far everyone. It is we II known that one of the major problems faced by Union students is lack of meaningful social events. We congratulate the Social Committee for their hard work, and by no means do we wish to undermit:te them. We merely wish to provide Hillel sponsored social events as an addition to the social opportunities available to the Union student body. So why should we be so upset? Take, for example, this past Sunday night. Hillel sponsored a rollerskating party at Rollerama, the roller rink here in town. We announced it two weeks in advance, and had a note on it in 'Blither' of last week's Concordiensis, not to mention many posters and even a spot on WRUC's community calendar, which is read every two hours. In addition to all of this, members of Hillel personally knocked on every door in Fox, Davidson, Richmond, and parts of West and South, reminding people of this event, and taking reservations. And the sad thing is that from all the people visited, and from the rest of the campus too, only 38 people signed up for our event. O.K., maybe rollerskating is not THE most popular recreational activity, and maybe Sunday evening is not THE best time to have such an event, but surely out of more than 2000 students, more than 38 can be expected to c•Jme. But that's not the worst of it! We proceeded to order a 40 seat bus, and made reservations at Rollerama for 40 people at their reduced group rate. Sunday night arrived, and the number of people that showed up was less than 20. That meant that we would lose money on the bus rental, and also lose our group rate, because the minimum for that is 25 people. In any event, we went, and everyone had a really good time. Hut why was it necessary for Hillel to lose $31.00 for the evening? Because people are afraid to make commitments! And half the people who do make commitments back out of them, usually at someone else's expense. A II we can say is that it is disheartening to us to think that Union College students are like this. The trend, if one really exists, must be reversed NOW! Not only for us, not only for the fine Social Committee, but for YOU. and for Union College. In the future, we hope that when Hillel, or any other organization sponsors an event for the whole campus, that it will be well attended, and that those who do make reservations keep their commitments. It is early in the year, and we arc optimistic that this will not continue to plague our school. Please, think about, and let m all resolve to do somcthiRg ahout it. now! David Weinstein '77, pres. Cindy Young \74 Bob Kaslovsky '77 Ben Rubin '78 .Jay Leberman '78 J~~~-?. ....... !.~~·.·.·.·~!.~.~~~~.~;~:-:;:.:?:·~·:·:).2~:::::~:~~:~:;:~:~:::~~~~:~:~:~:A~:~:~?:~:::::::::::::::::::::::::;:~: or its varia us organizations ''································· ••••• 1 1 1 1 1 1 1 1 a I 1 • I 0 .. 41 I I & • the ~o.o~., ... ,; ~ ... , ~ \\, , . _ . , ~ .. . ·., . ... ~ .. ·, ~ ... , .. • • • f • ' ' ' • \ ' ~ ' I t i ' I I . p .... ·· ~ l \ I ~ I t: ; ., ! . ! ' ' ' i ! . ' - Fo our Sund great m n altho bruis AI Hent• Is rae nigh Pale~ chan. In man~ mem comr the e To I Frid; Strat SefVII and place ()[ Hille DIN I How Kosb 1>1 Tl rei en; tee pi~ anr pn m~ COl 'iUI np Co age inc

u d h d f ' ;' ' CONCORDI~WSI.S,. Wednesday, Oct, 16, J.974 .Page3 ,_ <' . -~· .. ~, ...... --\~ ... . · E·x ant)~n:a t i~fi;:~~!oi~·· · · Pre~Med Syndrome at Uni~n .. ,· . :.~.~~~.. (·'\ .. ~\'... . ' ............ . · .. ·-.. -·t. J .f. by JACK PITNEY Everybody knows \the pre-med im41.ge\: that of a monomaniacal S.O.B. who will do anythiui for a high grade. But nobody ever seems to be q:ble to support it, for the image is based on a bunch of second- and third-hand stories, never on persot'lal experience. In fact, when you ask the peop,le who really k,now, you find that all the ug.Jy preconceptions are made of distortion and nurtured. h¥ hypocrisy. Probably the most pervasive myth is that the pre-meds want to be. doctors either for monetary gam or for the s;:ttisfaction of ·their parents. According to Professor Willard Roth, chairman of the Pre-Med Board, almost all ·of the estimated 350 Union pre- meds \have a multitude of reasons for striving for a medical career.\ He does note that \the health professions command high visibility, prestige and respect from the generation that makes up the parental group,\ and that they \are more va'lut;!d in terms of the way society pays ofC' · Neve.rtheless, he says that cases of \pathological parental pressure\ or consuming greed are extremely rare. ·rhe pre-meds seem to agree. \! heard a lot more· bad storie. than I've actually seen.\ know about living, breathing things.\ Like many others, Jay Pomerantz stresses the humanistic side of the health professions: \l've worked in hospitals. I've worket:l in nursing homes. I just felt that I wanted to help people.\ Humane dedication does not square with the stereotypical picture of the cutthroat competitor. And f.or a good reason: the picture is a fabrication. Hillel Activities \Those who are in it just for their parents' sake don't last too long,\ says Sandy Shor. \You have to be dedicated to stick with it.~' Pete Sobol adds, ''You're foolish if you do it just for the money, because you have to go throush so many years of education before Y!=>U even begin to see a·ny financial rewards.\ He also says that the advent of national health insurance probably will mean a Sure, the pressure to get into med school is tough. Last year, there were 41 ,000 applications for 14,000 places in American medical colleges. That's common knowledge. What is not as well known is that most U-Colls come from the four states that ptod.uce ,, . For those: of you who· missed . our rollerskating party this past traditional goodi~s. An exciting Sunda~ night, you missed a really guest . speaker wlll be o.n hand, ~reat ttme. Everyone came back and lots of other surpnses too. m • m~re or less good health, We do. need to know how many altliough with .a few bumps and are gomg to attend,. so that we bruises. cart order the food. If you want any further information, call Bob Kaslovsky, at 370-6456. Of course Bob will also take your Als~, our lecture by Professor Bentw1ch of the Technion in ls.rael took place. last Monday night. He spoke on the Palestinian problem, and its chances for resolution. In the coming weeks, We have many good things planned for our members and for the Union community .as welL (see letter to the editor from our exec, board) To begin with, we hold regular Friday night serVices at 7:30 in Stra:uss lounge, irt Carnegie. The serv1ce~ are always meaningful, and K1dush and discussion take place afterward. On FRIDAY OCTOBER 25 Hillel is sponsoring a SHABBAf DINNER, to be held in Hale House. It will be a delicious Kosherchicken meal, with all the DEMONSTRATIONS OF THE THRESHOLDS ·PROGRAM Thresholds is a short rehabilitative course which ·enables iearning of effective techniques for thinking and planning, for establishing goals and strategies, for successful problem~solving and decision- making all Of which. contribute to development of a successful life style. reservations, which. should be made no later than Tuesday, October 22. It promises to be a really great .evening. Hillel of Russell Sage College will be our guests that night. l'i>r those of you interested in joining Hillel, dues are still $1.00 for the entire year: .You can give the money to ~my of our ·Officers. New officers are: Dave Weinstein president~ delta phi fraternity, 372-9759~ Cindy Young vice-president, Me Kean House, 346-9303; Bob Kaslovsky religious chairman, 116 Fox; 370- ' 6456; Ben Rubin school- community chairman, 116 Fox, 370-6456; Jay Leberman cultural chairman, 252 Davidson, 370- 6680 .. total program and selected parts .of workshops, lectures · and visual materials used in the Thresholds Curriculum, plus slides of jail sessions and some background information · on the Threshold.s · organization. . The next training weekend for volunteers will be conducted October 19-20. for their parents' sake don\t last reduction m future doctor's fully one-third of the nation's incomes. applicants. (New York, New The pre-meds are motivilted far Jersey, Massachus.etts and less by selfish reasons than by Pennsylvania) Since many schools scientific curiosity and simple have quotas oh out-of-state altruism. \Many students regard students, Union pre-meds are medicine as an ideal utilization of caught in what Professor Roth science in a pragmatically calls \a hammer.Iock\: far fewer important and rewarding matter,\ positions are open to them than says Professo-r Roth. Shot puts it to students from other regions. in more personal terms.: \I want Despite all this, the prr - • to know medicine. I want to are not. as rumor w-\' · he · guerilla warriors of the :lassroom. \I've heard a lot more :>ad stories than I've actually seen,\ says Sobol. .. Nobody sneaks around to knock over his classmate's flask ... Even in competitively -graded Organic Chemistry labs, you'll see people helping each other out\ It's no secret that the pre-meds work harder than almost anyone else; however, their effort stems not from a wish to sho\\f up their classmates, but simply from a desit'e to give their best. \I'm not cutting anybody's throat,\ says Shor. \I'm doing it for myself.\ Anne Bonvoulieur notes, \M est of the pressure comes people want to be doctors so badly ... you want to get that mark.\ Pomerantz reflects that the combination of academic pressure I \ a multitude of reasons for pursuing a medical career\ and student stereotyping makes it especially hard on the .pre-meds: \When I tell people I'm pre- med, they cringe ... Sometimes, when I see an Eco or His tory major studying, I kid around and call him a throat. But then he gets really resentful and says, 'I'm not the throat. You're the pre-med. Y·ou'r-e the throat.\' According to Shor, \They associate the word 'pre•med' with 'cutthroat'. People call you a turkey. People call you a throat. I resent it. It hurts.\ In the end, it's hard to escape the conclusion that the pre-meds <fre getting the short end of the stick. Every group of students has its share of fierce competitors: to single out this particular group is as inaccurate as it is spiteful. It's time to lay off the pre-meds. They have it tough enough.as it is. CORRECTION The byline on the article \Grab for that Gusto\ on page 6 of last week's paper was. omitted. The article was written by Rhonda The course i~ currently operating in the Schenectady County Jail and in community agencies. The . demo11stration will include a brid overview of d1e. For further information and registration forms please call one of the following, . preferably at times indicated: (lail Pomeranz, 7-9:30 p.m., 370-1757; Elaine Schick, l-5 · p.m., 399-5054; Gertrude Armitage 8 a,m. to 11oo~, t- ·84l•9412. f!elta fhifu~nelers read,y to fling their fire witb.fury at . . _ . .. , Phl _Delta T_heta.fr.aternity fCJ.'r afi(!ld. . . • •• -l!:t4, •• -~~ .:~:\1. - ...... 11-_ • • ; i ~~-~ ....

f j I ,j I : ·~ ,, 1 I I L ,.-{ ' ·~ i l ' j ' ' ,li I 1 ~ : i l i ' ' I, i I I I f b p'•, I . , ~ I ' ! ' CONCORDIENSJS, Wednesday, Oct. 16, !974 Page3 Examin.atio,n ;of Pre-Med Syndrom·e at Union by JACK PITNEY Everybody knows \the pre-med image\: that of a monomaniacal S.O.B. who will do anything for a high grade. But nobody ever seems to be able to support it, for the image is based on a bunch of second- and third-hand stories, never on persomal experience. In fact, when you ask the people who really know, you find that all the ugly preconceptions are made <>f distortion and nurtared by hypocrisy. Probably the most pervasive myth is that the pre-meds want to be doctors either for moneta,ry gain or for the satisfaction of ·their parents. According to Professor Willard Roth, chairman of the Pre-Med Board. almost all of the estimated 350 Union pre- meds \have a multitude of reasons for striving for a medical career.\ He does note that \the health professions command high \ isibility, prestige and respect from the generation that makes up the parental group,\ and that they \are more valued in terms of the way society pays off.\ Nevertheless, he says that cases of \pathological parental pressure\ or consuming greed are extremely rare. !'he pre-meds seem to agree. \I heard a lot more bad storie. than I've actually sr?en.\ know about living, breatl1ing things.\ Like many others, Jay Pomerantz stresses the hllmanistic ~ide of the health professions: \I've worked in hospitals. I've worked in nursing homes. I just te It that I wanted to help people.\ Humane dedication does 11ot s4uare with the stereotypical picture of the cut throat competitor. And for a ,good reason: the picture IS a fabrication. he · guerilla warriors of the :lassroom. \I've heard a lot more :Jad stories than I've actually seen,\ says Sobol. \Nobody sneaks around to knock over his classmate's flask ... Even m competitively-graded Organic Chemistry labs. you'll see people he I ping cac h other out.\ It's no secret that the pre-meds work harder than almost anyone else; however, their effort stems not from a wish to show up their classmates, hut simply from a desire to give their hest. \I'm not cutting anyhody's throat,\ says Shor. \I'm doing it for myself.\ Anne Honvou lieur I:~otes, \Most of the pressure comes people want to be doctors so badly ... you want to get that mark.\ Pomerantz reflects that the combination of academic pressure ~~~~ r I .. a multitude of reasons Hillel Activities \Those who are in it just for their parents' sake don't last too long,\ says Sandy Shor. \You have to be dedicated to stick with it.\ Pete Sobol adds, \You're foolish if you do it just for the money, because you have to go through so many years of education before you even begin to see any financial rewards.\ He also says that the advent of national health insurance probably will mean a Sure, the pressure to get i11to med school is tough. Last year, there were 41,000 applications for 14,0()0 places irt American medica I colleges. That's common knowledge. What is not as well known is that most U-Colls come from the four states that produce for pursuing a medical career\ and student stereotyping makes it especially hard on the pre-meds: For those of you who missed <~ur rolle~skating party this past Sunda~ mght, you missed a really great time. Everyone came back in . more or less good health, although with a few bumps and bruises. Also, our lecture by Professor Hentwich of the Technion in ls.rael took place last Monday night. He spoke on the Palestinian problem, and its chances for resolution. In the coming weeks, we have many good things planned for our members and for the Union community as well. (see letter to the editor from our exec. board) I o begin with, we hold regular Friday night services at 7:30 in Strauss lounge, in Carnegie. The services are always meaningful, and Kidush and discussion take place afterward. On FRIDAY OCTOBER 25, flillel is sponsoring a SHAHBAT DINNER, to be held in Hale H ousc. It will be a delicious Kosherchicken meal, with all the DEMONSTRATIONS OF THE THRESHOLDS P'ROGRAM Thresholds is a short rehabilitative course which enables learning of effective techniques for thinking and planning, for establishing goals and strategies, for successful problem-solving and decision- making all .of which contribute to development of a o;uccessful life style. The course is currently o~erating in the Schenectady ( ounty Jail and in community agencies. The demonstration will include a brief overv.iew of the traditional goodies. An exc1tmg guest speaker will be on hand, and lots of other surprises too. We do need to know how many are going to attend, so that we can order the food. If you want any further information, call Bob Kaslovsky, at 370-6456. Of course Bob will also take your reservations, which should be made no later than Tuesday, October 22. It promises to be a really great evening. Hillel of Russell Sage College will he our guests that night. For those of you interested m joining Hillel, dues are still $1.00 for the entire year. You can give the money to any of our officers. New officers are: Dave Weinstein president; delta phi fraternity, 372-9759; Cindy Young vice-president, McKean House, 346-9303; Bob Kaslovsky religious chairman, 116 Fox, 370- 6456; Ben Rubin school- community chairman, 116 Fo~. J 70-6456; Jay Leberman cult ural chairman, 252 Davidson, J70- h6HO. total program and selected parts of workshops, lectures and visual material§ used in the Thresholds Curriculum, plus slides of jail sessions and <;orne background information on the Threshold-s organization. ·ne next training weekend for volunteers will be conducted October 19-20. For further information and registration forms please call one of the following, p.refcrallly at times indicated: (;ail Pomeranz, 7-9:30 p.m., .H0-1757; Elaine Schick, I -5 p.m., 399-5054; Gertrude Armitage 8 a.m. to noon, l- 842-9412. who are in it for their parents' sake dori\t last reduction In future doctor's mcomes. I he pre-meds are motivated far less by selfish reasons than by scientific curiosity and simple altruism. \Many students regard medicine as an ideal utilization of science in a pragmatically important and rewarding matter,\ says Professor Roth. Shor puts it in more personal terms: \I want to know medicine. I want to fully one-third of the nation's applicants. (New York. New .Jersey, Massachusetts and Pennsylvania) Since many schools have lJ uotas on out-of-state students, Union pre-meds are caught in what Professor Roth calls \a hammerlock\: far fewer positions are open to them than to students from other regions. Despite all this, the pre\'· art' not as rumor w~\' · \'When I tell people I'm pre- med, they cringe ... Sometimes, when I see an Eco or His tory major studying, I kid around and call him a throat. But then he gets really resentful and says, 'I'm not the throat. You're the pre-med. You're the throat.\' According to Shor, \They associate the \vord 'pre-med' with 'cutthroat'. People call you a turkey. People call you a throat. I resent it. It hurts.\ In the end. it's hard to escape the conclusion that the pre-meds arc getting the short end of the ~tick. Every group of students has its share of fierce competitors: to single out this particular group is. as inaccurate as it is spiteful. It's time to lay off the pre-meds. I hey have it tough enough as it IS. CORRECTION The byline on the article \Grab for that Gusto\ on page 6 of last week's paper was omitted. The article was written by Rhonda Delta Phifu~nelers ready to fling their fire with fury at Ph1 Delta Theta fraternft;'far afield. . ... ... ~ .. ··

. ' Page4 CONCORDIENSIS. Wednesday, Oct. 16, 1974 r-~--~-------------- I ' ,, oe: Continued from Pa~e I had approved funds. The survey was sQpposed to be finished in the fall, and for some reason it was left incomplete. Cohen suggests that it be picked up where it was left off as we are in desper-ate need of more light especially in the areas of Richmond and North. President Broomes in response to this problem told Ms. Cohen that he would put pressure on security. Cohen praised the escort service, but said however that she felt that there should be more foot patrols, and someone to man the security office aU night. Linebacke.r, the course e_valuation, will remain intact for the time being. The iax Committee felt that it should be discontinued, but Lester Feintuck who was representing Linebacker promised to improve it and gave a strong case for why he thought it beneficial to have an evaluationi There was no one there to represent the tax committee. A committee to revise the Steering Committee constitution is being planned and should be operating before long. It was From left to right: Joanne Muiher, Lee Russell, Carol Meyer and Ann Pomeranc Daye's· Mens Shop· . $.State St.- · TV RENTAL J•n•arii'AI Ce.n,.T4Vt.- lt3 New lamer Rd. Route IS$ Near K·Mar:t GQJ · Solving .a Nott-y Problem 'd~cided that the committee will be comprised of seven persons, tepresentfng ·different · classes, Two freshmen and tWo Steering Committee members have already been .,.chosen to sit on the Committee. There are still three positions . open to anyone who is interested. The · motion to appoint 3 others Who were not connected with Studen:t Government was passed by a mar.gin of 6 for, I against, and one abstention. Rep. Les Trachtman, was not present. The committee unanimously welcomed Sophomore Uisa Baron to take the place ·of member Allison Brickly who will be out for the rest of the term:. Ms. Baron was selected because she had finished third in the electi~ns held last Spring. What will become .of Union's mostdistinguishingfeature? by PETER SOBOL space should be designed a;rqqnd There is no doubt tba:t the most the people who are going t0 mev~ Freshnien elections will be held outstanding and distinguishing through it. Can one imagine being on Tuesday, Nov. 5 with runoffs feature of our campus is the NoH a sub~freshman clirrt,bing to the Nov. 7. Petitions may be picked M~tnorial. On aU the plates, cups, ' sinister .li!eights ,of an ancient and up Thursday, Octo 17 in Student postcards, bum,perstickers and most prob~bly evil :building to be ActiVities. Petitioners must chewing gum cards, the Nott asked personal questions by a procure 105 signatures to get their Memorial symboliies Union total straQger? Smith feels that W.Jio knows · WJ'lat hidden kntiwledge . the Nott. Memor.ial really. contains? 'Perhaps the height divi<ted by th~ d·iameter m ulti~Hed by. the last digit of the year of Nott's birth wiU equal the distance between. North and names on the ballot. They have. College. the Nott Memorial should be until Nov. I to do so. . The Nott Memorial i!! now in converted either to a first\(:1ass. grave danger of becoming not a restaurant (which leaves out a memorial. Committees are SAGA-run operation.) or a place meeting left and r-ight to try tG . where new ideas can be decide :the fate our our unique e:x:pounded by a:U manner Qf landmark. Al.ready the p.rojected innovators, tmublemakers and price of renovation will exceed upstarts. . . . . . ' one million dollars. The end of .some cold-m~nded persons. will this renovation will find the· sti~l.suggest teanng down the aged Admissions office on the third edifice: To those persons the floor. a gallery on the second fo;Uowthg story will be of interest. floor, and a \meeting hall\ on the A st~dent wh? once bra~ed of Soutll. >Perhaps a razor left on the flo()r in the Nott Memodal pointed West w.in· corrode fiistet The next meeting of t•he Steering Committee will be held Nov. 28 at 7:00 p.m. in Hickok. Lounge. Term· Abroad first floor. dancmg on ~Ehphalet Nott s grave Barry Sm'th fi . . f h. fel.l off the. third floor of the Nott theatri'cal.ar .. tis a' dpro. esdsor. of .t e Memoria. I the.· very next d. ay after n . spen- er o t1me . c . . h . 1 . in the Nott Mem · 1 . h . h' peno:mmg -t at sacn eg10us act. . ona , as IS 1 . h. t t .. d . . h own. ideas about how the. space magme w a . e~mn.g· .. own. t e should be used. He feels that a onl~ ~ymme~ncal stx.teen stded · butldmg m the .western . .,. hemisphere would bring upon the campus! ~ .:.._ ~ ·· ......... Then· what is to be done with this space? Let the .imagination run rampant. What a place for a · rolterskating rink. What a place for an observatory to rival Mount Palomar, the entire dome humming and r;otating through the night. · From left to right: Robert Brown, Roxanne Littner; Lawrence Levits, and John Dowling. DRIV.E ·OUR CARS· I•••••••••••••• I BOAR_D· ., = HORSES I • •• • 1 Box Stan 8 I Pasture I a Daily Care • • Closeto 8 • • • Schenectady· 8 • . . ·I 1 399-7439 .. · ••..••••••••••• .- Watch Out! ltjs Coming Nov. 14-15 .Free .pair with every purchase at Tkom MeAn 439 State St. Schenectady, N.Y~ OFFER GOOD ONLY WITH THIS AD. 'Serving Union For three Generations' • I\ J•y St. • Pm u,.n~~- Scr\ ICC' . .:\nc.i <.•·~ .itwelfy FREE To Florida California & aU cities in the U.S.A. AAACOI Auto Ttansport, Inc. 89 SHAKER RD. TERRACE APTS. 462-7471 . M'UST BE IS than notroal Peth~ps somewhere then: is a. small chink in the wall ·.through which the ~un shines precisely on St; ·valentines Day and illuminate$ a :plaque reading \Today is St. Valentine's .Day.\ .. ; ~. At one. point it looked grim for the Nott MemoriaL Pieces of it were. being s:old in the book store. It seeinetl as if there would soon. ~ .b.e ''Ma~e _Y,ourp'i\'11 Piece of the . Nott Memorial\ drive. Charging twenty-five cents a.s!edge;hammer blow would have saved demolition costs and made. a bunale as well. And if the Memorial was razed, something would have :to be done to compensate. The-name of the college could he ehanged to Nott College. Then we could all he Noh students. And receiVe Nott degrees. The possibilities are endless, a•Fe they N att? ' __ ,. ___ ....._.,._ ....... ___. ____ , _____ M_ .. - ........... _ • DOCK SIDERS '··The All Pu,Pose · Campus Shoe. for both men .and women 'fftis original boat· shoe ~~ ;js great to wear both on and off the water. It is 'I available in Brown 'Elk with a rubber (squeejee)' . boat sole. -- Remember you get $1.00 -off on every pair of shoes _yol;l buy when you let us know you ate from· Union College. The Family Shoe Store 147 JAY STREET ·SC-HENtCTADY; N.Y. 123()51 ... ·- ... ·~\•t·-----·- .... ~ ........ .._..__...,._. -· ,_.__. .. a: n sl p St a' Cl . ir p e: a \' n b p a d Cl Sl

~n he he he he it d a CONCORDIJ1NSIS! Wednesday! Oct. 16, 1974 Page 5 . A.O. C. Helps. StUdentS Computer Expands . F. I B. d· lD 1nanca. tn (\ont.in~ed from Page 1 however, do sense a bit of wariness on the part of m1nority students in ·accepting some new programs. Carlos explained that the students were stilt \checking them out\' and· that total acceptance a:nd trust would take tim~. Bad: ex-periences in the past may make n'linor~ty students a bit wary of accepting some changes. However. •. the basis for a Som'ld relationship between students and Jay and Carlos definitely does . exist. Fallacy #3: The Jldministration and faculty at VniQn is so closed minded that no change in the status of minority students is possible. Both Jay and Catlos seemed quite optimistic about the administration's and facult)' 1 s cooperation in all programs openly, .and everyone is given the opportunity to examine their own beliefs. Minority students wi:H soon be involved' i.n the discussions and their perceptions of white faculty at Union Will also be examined. Fallacy #4: H's going to be easy .to solve aU the problems at Union involving minority students. According to J·ay King the student populations is \less receptive to learning about race 't ha.n the faculty and. administration.\ Stereotypes, 'have to be d.ispelled before acce.ptance of minority students and those involved in the A.O,C. program can occur. Also, due to gre:a.t rnil;lundentandings concerning the ·students' abilities who are involved in the program, faculty J)lembers often expect too muc.h or too little from the students. To help remedy this situation, AO.C. students are now given the option of identifying themselves as such students ·or not. Previously, faculty was notified ·of the student's status witbo·ut t·he student's knowledge. This often led to abuse, or patronizing behavior on the part of the ,professor towards the student. Expecting too little of anyone is just al) harmful as expecting too much, since a st1,1dent's education will be lacking. if he doesn't get anything out of his courses. For the first time the A.O.C. program does have a full time tutor, John 8arry. He is qualified to tutor Chemistry, Physics, Biology, Calculus and tnany other subjects. All the rest of the tutors are students, and many more volunteers are still needed. If anyone is interested in tutoring, contact Jay King or Carlos Hill in Old Gym Hall. The A.O.C. program has definitely started this year off welJ.. Hopefully it will continue and help all th\se involved to \survive academically and socially· in Union College.\ The unfinished expansion of Steinmetz Hall, where the new computer facilities will be held by DIANNE NELSON An addition to Steinmetz Hall, with a new computer and an enlarged student work area is being built. According to Professors William Williams and Ted Schwartz of the computer ~cience department the building will be completed by Jan. 17, 1975. • The new computer is a Burrows B5700. It is capable of handling three times the throughput of the G41S now in use. The G415 is only capable of running one job through at a time. The new 85700 will handle four, five, -or possibly . involving making union a better place to live for all students, especially minority students. At present a rather successful series of weekly faculty d;iscussioos ,is being held where faculty are given a chance to express their opinions and dispell many misconceptions concerning blacks, students in the A.O.C. program, and minority students on campus. Problems such as what should and shouldn't be done wh.en interactj,rtg with minority students and misconceptions such a.s a) when one black speaks he is representing aU blacks, b) all blacks here are in the A.O.(:. program, c) Union is doing blacks a favor by inviting them here, and d) blacks here have their education served to them on a silvei platter, are discussed Has Henry Returned? six jobs at once. P,3st policy has been 50% of the computer t1me for the faculty and. 50% for tlle students. This policy will remain in effect; however, the great increase in jobs handled at once will augment student time markedly. The new student work area will be four times the size of the present one. PAMPER YOUR FEET TRYLlo.M<.;· WALLA BEES® Clarks Wallabee is probably the most comfortable shoe ever designed. Genuine moccasin construction gives Wallabee a·glove.:Uke feel that makes tired feet untired and keeps fresh feet from ever getting tired. In sand or brown suede and brown or black calf. The Family Shoe Store 147 JAY STREET SCHENECTADY, N.Y. 12305 David Nye, Union's new American Studies professor, presented an explanation of ~is dissertation which dealt w1th ••Henry Ford and Reincarnation.\ The lecture, given on Oct. l 0, was part of a ser.ies of weekly. inter- disciplinary .seminars in which scholars share their research interests. experience from one life to another, Nye explained to the group of 25. Ford attributed much of his business success to reincarnative knowledge the speaker said. Nye added that. Ford's life changed d-r:astically at the age .of 38 when he formulated his belief in reincarnation. Nye substantiates this theory 6y pointing out that Ford's life was aimless and undistinguished up until that time.. Apparently, Ford's realization of his beliefs gave his life direction. Dealing specifically with the automobile, Ford had a genuine desire to spread its use. In contrast to the p_resent automotive industry, Ford fore- saw a long life for each Prof. David Nye, lecturing on Henry Ford and Reincarnation. There have been some problems with the constructionof the addition. Due to a shortage of steel, the material needed was slow in arriving. Limestone was ordered and the company went out of business shortly afterwards. As a result of these delays, the original project completion date was changed from December to January. 'l\he enlargement of Steinmetz Hall will be a great advantage for the computer science department. Its completion is anxiously awaited. Nye tr~ced Ford's public images and his personal philosophies, emphasizing the importance of FJord's religious beliefs. According to Nye, Ford strongly believed in reincarnation, precognition, and invisible forces.· The speaker did extensive research in the Ford Archives, whi~h include Ford's personal volumes. Ford's favorite authors were Carlyle and Emer,son: The collection in the archives boasts Ford's n>flY of Emerson, which automobile. He thought that each ~----------~-------------~ auto could have the individual ·showed :,even references to, the essay ''Intellect\ among others. Pord believed that we carry parts replaced when faulty or wotn, thereby serving its owner · .lor a long time. :•••••••••••o•••••••••••••••~••••••••••~•·••••••u•••••••~•••·: • • ~ BOOKTI-R!FT ~· ~ FOR BOOKloVERS ~ • • : Come join us at Qur extraordinary : • • • • • • • • • • e • • • • • • • • • ' ·• • .. .. • • • • • • • . . • • • • 50% OFF . : • giant paperback book sale. :.- Outstanding current and back Jist : titles from many leading publishers. : This is a sale Booklovers can't afford to miss. : Cam·pus Store • • • • • • • • • • .. • • • • •, • • • • : . • • • • ~ . : : • • • • • • • •• • •• •e • •• • •• • • a • e • • • • • ••·•• •·•·• o •••••·• •·•• • •·• oOee 110 01 ••• • n• 1 a . .• '~. • • .t',. '.· Corduroy .. campus classic It's the kind of easy, ever-wear jacket that all men look good in. Definitive shaping, patch pockets and center vent styling. Expertly tailored of 100% cotton wide wale corduroy. Versatile camel color. Exceptional at49.95 Dare's &quirr i~np Tues, Thurs 'til 9 DOWNTOWN SCHENECTA.D Y 420 State Street . ,· J ' ., • ,., ~ ., ,: • :: ·• • I • \\ ,. \\' • \' ; .~~ '\ ..... i ._: '}. >; ,; X·· .: ·.: ... : ,\; ~-.• ,.,:: •. ,; / .... -: .. , • .:.i ,:..:. i. v~ .;: ;,~:.;. ·.~: oj •. v: ,_.',.:i .;,.-;,>;.; t<.- .y., J. --~· 1f·~···x. --~: (. ~ J;;t II.· ~~ ..... , fti.\.

j'' Page6 CONCORDIENSIS, Wednesday, Oct. 16, 1974 WRUCfFM Chamber. Group Perfo.rms by SCOTT GLASS For many years now WRUC has been trying to apply for a license from the Federal Communication Commission which would allow it to broadcast on the FM band. This would make WR(JC a \real\ radio station. At the present only transmits along the . power lines much in the same manner as a wireless intercom; hy induction. Right now WRUC stands closer to obtaining art FM license than it ever hits. In September of :1973, the trustees of Union Coflege f o rm a ll'y s u b m i tt e d t he application for an FM license to the FCC. The FCC approved the technical portion of the application, which means that they see no technical reason why the license should be denied. On June 12 the application came up for final ·Consideration. Then the problems started. WAM C, based at . Albany Medical College and broadcasting in the next channel down from the proposed (90.9 M hz) frequency for WRUC, has complained to the FCC that WRUC weuld interfere with their transmissions. But according to the tech staff of WRUC, the interference with their proposed 2.35 watt transmitter would extend from the antenna site high atop Carnegie Hall to approximately the statue of Chester A. Arthur. Hence interference does not seem to be a big problem .. However, the FCC is worried that WR UC might interfere with the audio portion of TV Channel 6 which is located from 82 to ·-88 M hz. Again the tech staff of WRUC· does not see this as an insurmountable problem. There are some much more formidable problems. Albany State has also recently applied for a license to operate an FM station on the same frequency as the one WR UC has applied for. Since there\ is only one frequency available in this area, only one of the applicants can be granted a license. If the FCC gives the OK to W RUC, WRUC will on]y receive a construction permit. From that time,. WRUC has six months to put the FM station into operation. This will require upwa.rds of ten thousand dollars, the source of which is not ·readily apparent. Student tax money cannot be used for this project. If in six months' time WRUC cannot raise the money, buy the equipment it ne.eds, complete construc·tion, and do \ptoof of perfmmance\ tests for the FCC, the permit will be revoked. If they can complete this Herculean task, they will be granted the right to do program tests on the air. If all goes well here,. fhe license is assured. · Thus the probability of making WRUC-FM a renlity depends upon several \ifs\. l;f Albany State does not exert too much pull, if W RUC can raise the money, .if construction and \proof of performance\ tests can be completed in the required six . months time, and if the program The Concentus Music_us peljorms in the Chapel. by D.W. MULCAHY tests go well, the chances of The Concentus Musicus, an getting the FM license looks · internatio;nally renowned good. But right now, no one can chamber .group, epened the 1974~ know for sure. !•9.75 Schenectady M useum.-Union Social Comittee Continued from Page I sound to the coffeehouse, including a special appearance, for the last set of the evening, of their four piece band. This same band, made up of Goebel, Lang, bass player Sean Silverman, and drummer Julio Coronado, will he the opening act of the cencert in Memorial Chapel · Saturday night. The headliner of that concert will be Bruce Springsteen. Springsteen, because of the lyrics to some of his songs~ ·haS'· :been referred to as a 'young Dylan' or the 'next Bob Dylan'. These title-s are misnomers, howeve,r, for Springsteen; :with his seven piece band, sounds very little like Dylan. His b!lnd is a tight, well coordinated group with a loud, hard driving sound. The concert hegins at 9;00, and tickets are available in Student Activities as well as at the door. · Col'lege concert series last Saturday nig'ht, playing a concert Bruce Springsteen, who will perform Saturday night of Homecoming weekend at9:00. of' 'baroque selections before a large and appreciative Mertrciria'i Chapel audience. The appeal of the Concentus M usicus can be attributed to two key factors. Most obvious is the insistence of the group on p.laying their music as it was originally Intended to be performed. For their performance of works of the late 17th a:nd,early 18th centuries, this required the use 0f original instruments. This enables the (lUdience to ·experience the music as it was first written. Another reason for the ;group's success is the hig.h level of musicianship ;wd obvious enthusiasm with which they approach each piece. These factors were aU ap:parent ·in the subscription series concert. The first half of the program featured rarely heard works from the earlier part of the haroque period. Sinfonia No. 2 of Johann t-·ux was the first piece played,. followed by Heinrich Biber's \Mensa Sonora, 1680-Pars I\ and Sonatas A 5. Sonata No. 5 from Armonico Tributo, by George Muffat, was the last work before the intermission. The pieces were all well,-played, and I · considered the Sinfonia No .. 2 in particular to he an effective piece of music, featuring two oboes and ·a bassoon in addition to the strings. The Mttffat piece also had many fine selections. At the beginning of the second part of the program, {he audience was given.· a brief_ speech by Nikolaus Harn.oncourt, . director of 'tbe ensemble, telling a little bit about the instruments and their necessity for achieving the s~;>Und which the group desired. This brief dh:ersion was followed by the featured work of the evening, tbe Brandenburg Concerto No. 5 of .}.S. Bach. · This very well · known work fe.atured fine pePforrnances by thFee ·soloists; violinist Alice H arnoncourt, Leopold Stastny pl~~;ying the flauto· traverso, and Herbert Tachezi playing the harpsichord. Tacuezi in piuticular deserves praise for his dominating performan.ce in t·he first movement. The Brandenburg Concerto No. 5 is probably one of the most outstanding works ever written for harpsichord, and the, demanding part was given an· outstanding performance on Saturday night by Tachezi. This piece was the most weU received of rhe evening, in part 'because it was, the only piece with which most of the __ . audience was aquainted, :but mainly, l suspect, because of the fine performance which it received. Wi~h fhis ·auspicious debut, it looks .fike the concert seri.:s this year will be a very fine one. The, next event in the series wilt be on November 4, when The King's Singers Will be appenring in the· Memorial Chapel. , Wh t' G , . · 0 · · ~---- . a s o1ng by MIK~==---=--a !!:!:! MUSIC Oct. 24-26: Al Hatg Duo :!:!:! ~J Oct. 22: University-Community Symphony Orchestra, DANCE Oct. 24-26:· The Country Girl by ·Clifford Odets (Gmd.@ ~t~~il Main Theatre 8:30 pm, SUNY at Albany, Free with Oct. 10·11: African Cultural. Dance and Music Ensemble, Student Production), Arena Theatre, &:30 pm. Free with llllll ::::::Tickets, available by mAil beginning Oct. 14. lOth- 8 pm Multi-media theatre. Junior Coll~ge of ticket one hour before performance.. . !}j :t Oct. 17: Chopin Memorial Concert, 8:30 pm, Memorial Albany. lith- Schacht Fine Arts Ctr., Russell Sage ART l! ~!!:~~ Chapel, $3 students. . . College, 270-2246. Oct. 18~Dec . .3: Graphic Artists Mon. thru TI.tu.rs, 9.:6 and l~~~l fi! Oct. 18: Coffee House presents Goebel & Lang, Old FILMS 8-10, Sun. 9-1, Temple Gates of Heaven, Eastetn Pkwy. at i~!i! r:: Chapel, 8:30pm, Old Chapel. Oct. 18: \Room Service\ (Marx Bros.), SS01(), Free~ Ashmore Ave., Schenectady, 372-0763. . ' j@ •. :1:~:1 Oct. 18: The Electric City Boogie Band and Sweet Life, 8 Oct. 23: Wednesday Noon Film at Central Library, Oct. 19: David Strom, Silkscreens,. Open Door, 136 Jay lll l}l pm, l. U.E. Union Hall, Erie Blvd., Schenectady. Liberty & Clinton Sts. \Glass'' and \One Day at Teton St., Schenectady. - lfj jj Oct. 18: The Berkshire Symphony, Julius Hegyi, 8:30 Marsll.\ Free. Oct. 26: Printing and the' Mind of Man, books printed ltl tl Chapin Hall, Williams College (413) 597-2127. . Oct. 23: Pas de Deux and Dream of Wild Horses, between 1455 and 1704, weekdays 9'-12 and 1~5. Chapin fll ifj Oct. 18.·19: Mohawk Valley Chorus, \Pops Concert\ Fri. Wingate Branch Library, 2558 Guildc:!rland Ave. 7:30 pm. Library, Williams College. . {) !!!iii 8 pm, Mt. Carmel Cultural Center, Rt. 5S, Amsterdam, Free. Oct. 11-Dec. ~1: The Growth of a Coll~ction, 1972-74, til ~r Sat., Holiday Lounge, Scotia, 393-4095. Oct. 17: Monkey Business, Marx Bros., 8:30 pm. paintings, prints, and art obJects, Albany Institute of tl ill Oct. 19: The Mahavishnu Orchestra with John Harmanus Bleeker LihFary, 19 Dove St., Albany, 465- History and Art, 125 Washington Ave., Albany, 46'3-4478. t:: 11 McLaughlin and Jean-Luc Ponty, 8 pm, Palace Theatre, 1463, Free. Thru Ott. 27: Edwin Austen Abbey (1852-1911), 19th tl: lilil Albany, 465-3333. Oct. 18-19: Tokyo Story, 8 pm, Japanese with English Century Paintings, Albany Institute. ltl! l@ Oct.l9: Philip Rhinelander, classical guitar workshop and subtitles, Recital Hall, Performing Arts Ctr., SUNY at Thru Oct. 31: Inti: Print Exhibition, engravings,~@ tl concert, by Capitol District Classical Guitar Society, 8 Al·bany, 457-8606. . serigraphs, woodcuts, Print Gallery; Albany Institute. · . ~!t ~t: pm, The Arts Center, 1069 New Scotland Ave., Albany, Oct. 21: Le Million, Rene Clair, 7 pm, Rm. 307, Laqd Thru Oct. 31: Albany Views ftom 19th Century Books ::m: if 393-7932. . Hall, Skidmore, 584-5000. and PeriQdicals, Prints ftom the .Collection of James' R. t!' ~:\(Oct. 19: Concert by Bruce Springsteen, 9 pm, ~emorial Oct.l7, 18. and 20: The Ruling Class, Peter Barnes, 8:30, Duffy, Albany Institute. j~l~ !lt Chapel, Tickets available at Student Activities. .. Adams Memorial Theatre, Williams College, (413) 458- !ill! {: Oct. 19·20: Victor Hill, harpsichord, 8 pm. Griffen Hall, 3023. · I~ ~l!i Williams College. Free. . Oct. 17·20: A Streetcat Named Desir-e, 8 prtJ., Little . COFFEEHOUSES 11 !~\~ Od. 21: Jackson Browne, Wendy Waldman, 8 pm, Palace Theatre, Siena College, 783-243L Oct. 17-19: Larry Keen & Co. Bluegrass, folk, 8:30 pm, Jj jtli\ Theatre, Albany. Oct. 18: The Sunshine Boys, Alan Aida, Palace Theatre, Mothers Wine Empotium-RathskeHar, RPI Student 1t ~1} Oct. 21: Mond:aY Musical Club, \Artists in Con<;ert,\ 8 Albany, 465-3333. . Union. · @j 1:jll pm, Albany Institute of History and Art, 125 Washington Oct. 18: Rudimentaer by August Stramm (Performed Oct. 1·8.,20: Thomas Mitchell, Michael Q'Dunne, :llll! tl Ave., Albany. in German), Main Theatre, 1:30pm, $2 with I.D., SUNY contemporary and country, Caffe Lena, Saratoga Springs, @1! fjoct. 21: Jazz & Blues .at the Last Chance, 109 Central at Albany. 584-9789, . :::m :gAve., Albany, 463-9717. Oct. 1S.l9: The Real Inspector Hound, JCA Players, 8 Oct,. 11: Mandolin Dan and the Silver Dollar Band, 8:30 :~;~j !@Oet. 17-20: Charlie Smith Blues Band pm, Multi-Media Theatrej Junior College at Albany~ pm. Lively Lucy's Coffeehouse, Skidmore Hall Basement, ltt f! Oet. 24-25: Nick Brignola's New Quartet, The Persian Oct. 19·2': The Mousetrap, Agatha Christie, 8:30, Skidmore, 584-5000. ilJ M Room, Mid-City Shopping Ctr., Menands, 465-1333. Schenectady Civic PlayhoUse, l2 So. Church St., Oct. 20: Pat O'Neil, folk, rock, 7. pm, The Gate itil11 Moet. 11-19: Gene aertoniaini Duo Schenectady. Coffeehouse, 37 I st St., Troy, 271-7880. :::111 - ':\'\' : l • . = : . • • : .. E (I i .. ! ·P I I ll. ... - rec Tu lea sor hel for I spt sul thl em wh ed1 ;, I

Page6 CONCORDIENSIS, Wednesday, Oct. 16, 1974 WRUCfFM Chamber Group Performs by SCOTT GLASS For many years now WRUC has bceH tryiHg to apply for a license from the Federal ('ommunication Commission which would allow it to hroadcast nn the FM hand. This would make WRI 1 C a \real\ radio ..,tation. At the present only tran'imit~ along the powt:r lines rnuch in the .;a me mannn a.., a \\ ircle'i'i intercom: h~ induction Ri!!ht nnw WRI'C 'lands clo'er to ohtaininl! an F\1 liccn'ie than it ever has. From that time, WR UC has she. months to pLit the FM station into operatioH. This will requiFe upwards of ten thousand dollars, the ~ource of~ hich is nut readily apparent. StudeHt tax rnonev ,,umut he u~t.:J fur this project. II\ tn s1x months' time WRliC ctnnot rai~e thL· mone), hu} tlw ,·quiprnL·nt it f,lccJ~. ..:untplctc ulfhtruL·tinn. and Ju \proul ol pnforrnance\ toh tm the l·CC, thL· permit \\illberc\u~cd.ll the} can complete thi~ Hen.:ulcan ta~k. they will he granted the right tel do program te~ts on the air. II all goes ~c II here. the license is assured. .. ?i ·~ ·,, \, In September ot l l)7 3. 1 he trustees of Union College lormally submitted the application for an FM license to the FCC. I he FCC approved the technical portion of the application. which means that they see no technical reason why the license should he denied. On June 12 the application came up lor final consideration. Then the problems started. I hus the prohahility of making WR liC-FM a reality depends upon several \ifs\. If Albany State docs not exert too much pull. tl WRllC can raise the money, if construction and \proof of performance\ tests can he completed in the required six months time, and if the program tests go well, the chances of getting the FM license looks good. Hut right now. no one can know lor sure. The Concentus Musicus performs in the Chapel. WAMC. based at Albany Medical College and hroadcasting m the next channel down from the proposed (lJ0.9 M ht) frequency for WRlJC. has complained to the FCC that W R UC would interfere with their transmissions. But according to the tech staff of WRUC. the Interference with their proposed 2.35 watt transmitter would extend from the antenna site high atop ('arnegie Hall to approximately the statue nf Chester A. Arthur. Hence interference does not seem to he a hig problem. However. the FCC 1~ \\orried that WR IIC might mtcrlere with the audio portion of IV Channel 6 which is located from !12 to ·HX Mht. Again the tech staff of WRllC docs not sec this as an insurmounta hie problem. I here are some much more formidable problems. Albany State has a !so recently applied for a license to operate an FM station on the same frequency as the one WRUC has applied for. Since there is only one frequency available in this area, only one of the applicants can be granted a license. If the FCC gives the OK to WRUC. WRUC will only receive a construction permit. Social Comittee ( ontinued from Pa!!,e I ~ound to the coffeehouse. including a special appearance, tor the last set of the evening, of their four piece band. I hi, ~•unc h<tnd. made up ul (ioehel. Lang, hass player Sean Silverman, and drummer Julio Coronado. will he the opening act of the concert in Memorial Chapel Saturday night. The headliner of that concert will be Bruce Springsteen. Springsteen, because of the lyrics to some of his songs. has been referred to as a 'young Dylan' or the 'next Bob Dylan'. These titles are misnomers, however, for Springsteen, with his seven piece hand, sounds very little like Dylan. His band is a tight, well coordinated group with a loud, hard driving sound. The concert hegins at 9:00, and tickets are available in Student Activities as well as at the door. by D.W. MULCAHY r he C oncent us M usicus, an internationally renowned chamber group, opened the 1974- 1975 Schenectady Museum-Union C ollegc concert series last Saturday night, playing a concert Bruce Springsteen, who will peiform Saturday night of Homecoming weekend at 9:00. of baroque selections before a large and appreciative Memorial Chapel audience. The appeal of the Concent1.1s Musicus can be attributed to two key !actor~. Most obvious is the insistence of the group on playing their music as it was originally intended to be performed. For their performance of works of the late 17th and early IXth centuries, this required the use of original instrHments. This enables the audience to experience the music as it v.a~ first written. Another reason for the gro11p's success is the high level of musicianship and obvious enthusiasm with which they approach each piece. These !actor;. \\ere all apparent tn the s uhscription series concert. I he first half of the program featured nuely heard works from the earlier part of the haroque period. Sinfonia No. 2 of Johann Fux was the fiN piece played. followed by Heinrich H iber's \Mensa Son ora, 16XO-Pars I\ and Sonatas A 5. Sonata No. 5 from Armonico Tributo, by George M uffat, was the last work before the intermission. The pieces were all well-played, and I considered the Sinfonia No. 2 in particular to be an effective piece of music, featuring two oboes and a bassoon in addition to the strings. The Muffat piece also had many fine selections. At the beginning of the second part of the program, the audience was given a brief speech by Nikolaus Harnoncourt, director of the ensemble, telling a little bit about the instruments and their necessity for achieving the sound ~hich the group desired. !\his brief diversion was followed by the featured work of the evening, the Brandenburg Concerto No. 5 of J.S. Bach. This very well known work featured line performances by three soloists; \ iolinist /\lice Harnoncourt. leopold Stastny pl4ying the flauto traverso. and Herhert I ache;i playing the harpsichord. racheli in particular deserves pra1~c for his dominating perlormam:e tn the t ir~t mo\·ement. l\he Hrandenhurg ( \oncerto :-.;o. 5 is prohahly one ol the most outstanding works ever ~ rittc'n lor harpsichord. and the demanding part was given an outstanding pt:rformance on Saturday night by Tache;i. l\his piece was the most well received of the evening. in part because it was. the only piece with which most of the audience was aquainted, but mainly, I susoect, because of the fine performance which it received. With this auspicious debut, it looks like the concert seri..:s this _'.ear will be a very fine one. The next event in the series will be on :\iovember 4, when The King's Singers will he appearing in the Memorial Chapel. ~~ 0<1. 22• Univecsity-co!'m~~\~ 0<1. 24-2'' AI Haig Duo DANCE :{~Main Theatre 8:30 pm, SUNY at Albany, Free with Oct. 10-11: African Cultural Dance and Music Ensemble. Student Production), Arena Theatre, 8:30 pm. Free with:::::: j(: Tickets, available by mail beginning Oct. 14. lOth- 8 pm Multi-media theatre. Junior College of ticket one hour before performance. ~:} fjj Oct. 17: Chopin Memorial Concert. 8:30 pm, Memorial Albany. I lth- Schacht Fine Arts Ctr Russell Sage ART {j: ~}'Chapel. $3 students. College, 270-2246. ., Oct. 18-Dec. 3: Graphic Artists Mon. thru Thurs. 9-6 and [!1~1' ::::::Oct. 18: Coffee House presents Goebel & Lang, Old FILMS 8-10, Sun. 9-1, Temple Gates of Heaven, Eastern Pkwy. at \i :) Chapel, 8:30pm, Old Chapel. Oct. 18: \Ro()m Service\ (Marx Bros.), SS016, Free. Ashmore Ave., Schenectady, 372-0763. j(. ?:'Oct. 18: The Electric City Boogie Band and Sweet Life, 8 Oct. 23: Wednesday Noon Film at Central Library, Oct. 19: David Strom, Silkscreens, Open Door. 136 Jay(: i} pm, I.U.E. Union Hall, Erie Blvd., Schenectady. Liberty & Clinton Sts. \Glass\ and \One Day at Teton St.. Schenectady. j{ :;::: Oct. 18: The Berkshire Symphony, Julius Hegyi, 8:30 Marsh.\ Free. Oct. 26: Printing and the Mind of Man, books printed j( } Chapin Hall, Williams College (413) 597-2127. Oct. 23: Pas de Deux and Dream of Wild Horses. between 1455 and 1704. weekdays 9-12 and 1-5. Chapin (lj ::: Oct. 18-19: Mohawk Valley Chorus, \Pops Concert\ Fri. Wingate Branch Library, 2558 Guilderland Ave. 7:30 pm. Library. Williams College. :-:;: } 8 pm. Mt. Carmel Cultural Center, Rt. 5S. Amsterdam, Free. Oct. 11-Dec. 31: The Growth of a Collection. 1972-74, ? :;:: Sat., Holiday Lounge, Scotia, 393-4095. Oct. 17: Monkey Business. Marx Bros.. 8:30 pm. paintings, prints, and art objects, Albany Institute of:) : Oct. 19: The Mahavishnu Orchestra with John Harmanus Bleeker Library, 19 Dove St., Albany, 465- History and Art, 125 Washington Ave., Albany, 463-4478. i: :;:: McLaughlin and Jean-Luc Ponty, 8 pm, Palace Theatre, 1463, Free. Thru Oct. 27: Edwin Austen Abbey (1852-1911), 19th':::: } Albany, 465-3333. Oct. 18-19: ·rokyo Story, 8 pm, Japanese with English Century Paintings. Albany Institute. j( < Oct. 19: Philip Rhinelander, classical guitar workshop and subtitles, Recital Hall, Performing Arts Ctr .• SUNY at Thru Oct. 31: Inti. Print Exhibition, engravings. {j / concert, by Capitol District Classical Guitar Society, 8 Al·bany, 457-8606. serigraphs, woodcuts, Print Gallery, Albany Institute. }~ :':'. pm, The Arts Center, 1069 New Scotland Ave., Albany, Oct. 21: Le Million, Rene Clair, 7 pm, Rm. 307, Ladd Thru Oct. 31: Albany Views from 19th Century Books jf ?: 393-7932. Hall, Skidmot'e, 584-5000. and Periodicals, Prints from the Collection of James R. ~~·:: j Oct. 19, Concert by Bruce Springsteen, 9 pm, Memorial Oct. 17, 18 and 20, The Ruling Cia;s, Pet\ Haco.,, H:JO, D\ffy Albany in,itute. :,.'.•._',_: ? Chapel, Tickets available at Student Activities. Adams Memorial Theatre. Williams College, (413) 458- ;, Oct. 19-20: Victor Hill, harpsichord, 8 pm. Griffen Hall. 3023. :: :·.·: : : Williams College. Free. Oct. 17-20: A Streetcar Named Desire. g pm, Little COFFEEHOUSES :;:: ::Oct. 21: Jackson Browne, Wendy Waldman, g pm, Palace Theatre, Siee~a College, 783-2431. Oct. 17-19: Larry Keen & Co. Bluegrass, folk, 8:30 pm, :} :) Theatre. Albany. Oct. 18: The Sunshine Boys, Alan Aida. Palace Theatre, Mothers Wine Emporium-Rathskellar, RPI Student ::;: (:' Oct. 21: Monday Musical Club. \Artists in Concert,\ 8 Alhany, 465-3333. Union. :r f! pm, Alhany Institute of History and Art, 125 Washington Oct. 18: Ruclimentaer by August Stramm (Performed Oct. 18-20: Thomas Mitchell. Michael O'Dunne, I! ~)Ave., Albany. in German), Main Theatre, 1:30pm, $2 with J.D., SUNY contemporary and country, Caffe Lena, Saratoga Springs, W,: fj Oct. 21: JaZ7 & Blues at the Last Chance, I 09 Central at Albany. 584-9789. j} Jl Ave., Albany, 463-9717. Oct. 18-19: The Real Inspector Hound, JCA Players, 8 Oct. l7: Mandolin Dan and the Silver Dollar Band, 8:30 [\ ~::~~ Oct.17-20: Charlie Smith Blues Band prri, Multi-Media Theatre, Junior College at Albany. pm. Lively Lucy's Coffeehouse. Skidmore Hall Basement. (: fj Oct. 24-25: Nick Brignola's New Quartet, The Persian Oct. 19·26: The Mousetrap, Agatha Christie, 8:30, Skidmore. 584-5000. f: ff Room, Mid-City Shopping Ctr., Menands, 465-1333. Schenectady Civic Playhouse, 12 So. Church St., Oct. 20: Pat O'Neil, folk, rock, 7 pm, The Gate J· :t Oct. 17-19: Gene Bertoniaini Duo Schenectady. Coffeehouse, 37 I st St., Troy, 271-7880. }: I' I I ,r f i I l i : ~ l \·. J I <! . \.f \ 1 l : ~ , I .. ' '·1 I I I !, \ ! l l .1. I I ' J . i I I ' I ' ' - I - •I DUll . i ~~ : . . • • . • i • E (P . . • . • 5 p E • . . • • .. i ~ .. \ .. .,. ... 4 - l rec1 Jut lea~ ~on he! lor I ~pe sue tha cnc wh edt I I

by bit by 5 rt,· he es st it t, it • n CQNCORDlEJVSI$, Wednesday; Vct.16 •. 1974 **** Opening Night at the Cabaret **** Cabaret Open~ Ladies and Gentlemen, the Cabaret is off to a rolling start. But unlike roUing stones, t!his rolling start is gathering mossloads .of plaudits, applause, and appreciation fn:>m the patrons. The fantastic beginning that Cabaret has had this tef;m is proof that there is some · , fine talent on this campus. · ' Pa-vid Lederkramer opened both shows on a superb piano. Judy Kottke could well be mistakett for a relative .of Leo by her playing ability alone. Becky White's performance was e~cellent with the ~nimitab1e Howard Grossberg at the piano. And, ,certai-nly Diane Deacon and Mike Purcell have not given their last performance at Union. Rich Strassman played piano as oril.y he can. The• sound, the kitchen, the cleanup - afl operated without a hitch, But if you think, that opening night was spectacular, the next Cabaret w,jtl .surpass it in variety of entertainment and culinary delights. For one thing the two shows will be entirely different. Fot another, the shows will take place at 8:00 to 10:00 and 1'0:30 to l2:30. For still another., the Cabaret nee\c:ls you. Can you read? Sing? Juggle? Ventriloquize? Imitate, humorate, instigate, exasperate or obfuscate?· Have no fear of auditions. Auditions ate run hy human beings_ who have no perverted desire to stifle creativity. So ~ign up outside the Cabaret room for Sunday a1,1ditions. Or call Tim Dowling at the Davidson apartment. And don't forget that Cabaret stiii needs people to work in every other dep~rtment:, especially review writing. See you ThursdaY night! =.ettiii.III.IBII~IIel~llllll.~tlattetntteOa~il•••aeiiiiHI,,t.II8111111•1118811IIIIIIIO.Itiiiiii1Gij • • : PROGRAM l 8-10 5 5 8-8:30 Arthur Miller & Peter Prunner · 5 : . .. . . . : 8:30-9:30 Bob llaun ~ Harry Roberts . i 9:3040, Helena Binder (tap dancer) vv/Howie Grossberg i (piano) • • • .. £PROGRAM II 10:30•12:30 i 10:30·11 S.pencer Livingston i i 11- 11:31) Rich Strassman : I 11.:30-12 The Radio Acrobats· . i. . E 12-12:30 Helena Binder w /Howie Grossberg . i ~-lllllllllltlllltllll.llllletl.llle.lllll.llaiiiSIIDIIIIIIII8HIIII.II.Itlaillllllllilll811tiiiii1181JI Tutors Needed Carver Community Ctr. is now The tutoring will take place at recruiting tutors for this year's Horace Mann School from 3 to 5 Tutorial Program. If you have at daily and. at King School from 6 least one hour a week t:o help to 9 daily. · somt\one; wh;y not spend it Training and Orientation will he.lping those kids who are asking be provided for the tutor. for help? How about you~ Are you Does a tutor have to have interested? If only an hout a spec'ial skills? Not for most week? If so; write: subjects. What is important Is • 'Joe Campbell that the student receives Educational Director encoqtagement from· someone 700 Craig Street who is interested · in their Carver Community Center education. Schenectady, N.Y. 12307 + t t + or call 374-8457 or 346-4855. You Can't Take It With You Aloal ol-btead a Jug olwlae or beer orsaacrla and 'ThOu. Find happiness at Steak & Brew ... great steaks, burgers and roast prime rib of beef, plates and plates of fresh good things from the earth at the famous salad bar and_ pitcher after pitcher of good things to drink (for just 50¢ per person). Dine in the cheerful surroundings of an English Pub and then linger in The Lounge. Bring a special friend or the whole gang-Steak & The Fres/1.man play is now in production, to be performed on November 8, 9, 10,. and 13, 14, 15, and 16. Pictures above are, from left to right Jack Stein, Margaret-Ann Maloney, Gary Haber. Brew will do the rest. -···· PRESENT THIS COUPON 10 YOUR WAITER ATDifiiEifOI $1.00 Off (PEl PEIIOII fER CMOI) OFFER GOOD UITil D£&31, tl14 NOT GOOD WITH ANY OTHER STEAK & BREW PROMOTION OR J.UNU SPECIAL Page7

by or it g, 5 s; rt n n d h S c s s 11 '' ' I j I . I < ' ' ' 0 I ,, 0 ' ' ' [ \ ; CONCORD/ENS/S, Wednesday, Oct. 16, 1974 **** Opening Night at the Cabaret**** Cabaret Opens Ladies and Gentlemen, tl~e Cabaret is off to a rolling start. Rut unlike.: rolling stones, thi::. rolling ~tart is gathering mo~~load> of plaudits, applause, and appreciation from the patrons. The fanta,tir beginning that Cabaret ha::. had thi~ t~:rm j, prtH>I that there i' 'nme fine talent on this campus. Da\id L..:derkramcr opened both :.ho''' t>ll a 'llPL'th piann .luLl~ Kottke could 1\dl be mi,tak~ll f,n ,, Jt:lati'L' ,,f I en h) hL·r pLt~in;,o abilit) alont:. Bed) White\ pL'tl'\ltllJan,·,· \\;1' e.\L't:lknt \lith thL' inimitable Ho\\arJ Gro~~bcrg ~It tht: pi.ltl\1, \nJ L'L'rt.linl~ Di;tllL' Dea(un ai•H.l Mike Purcdl h.t 1..: not gi1t:n tllL·ir i;t,t P•'I l<>rlll.IIKe .tl Union. Rich Stras~man played .pimw \\ tmly he ,·an The ~ound, the kitchen, thc dean up <til tlpnatcd 11 ithnll'l a hi·tch. But it ~ou think that opening night \Ia> :-.pel'lacular. the IlL'\! Cahan:t will surpass it in \arit:ty of entertainment and culinary delights. l·or one thing the two shows will be entirely difkrent. For another. the shows will take place at 8:QO to 10:00 and l 0:30 to 12:30. For stiH another, the Cabaret needs you. Can you read'! Sing? Juggle? Ventriloquize'? Imitate, humorate, instigate, exa~peratc or ohfuscate? Have no fear of auditions. Audit ions are run by human heing\ who have no perverted desire to ~tifle creativity. So ~igr1 up outside the Cabaret room for Sunday auditions. Or c<>ll Tim Dowling at the Davidson apartment. And don't forget that Cabaret :,till needs people to work in every other department, especially review writing. See you Thursday night! :.,IIJtlll~tltllctt•a•ueeallllllll••tllall!IDalllllllllllltltJiliiiii&IIIIIIIISIIIItiii8GDI.tflllmlllil.81111.1t•t £ PROGRAM I 8-10 : . . • • . • i • 8-8:30 Arthur Miller & Peter Prunner 8:30-9:30 Bob Haun & Harry Roberts 9:30-10 Helena Binder (tap dancer) w/Howie i (piano) . . • . i PROGRAM II 10:30-12:30 i 10:30-11 Spencer Livingston . : ll-11:30 Rich Strassman • i 11 :30-12 The Radio Acrobats Grossberg • i 12-12:30 Helena Binder w I Howie Grossberg : r• s a1011 Oft III.IIIDelll 111111111111181Dt!IIIIBIIIII:ORIIGI8181111all811tlee&tle811101111111118 I lUll·~ 1e1JI Tutors Needed l'arver Community Ctr. is now I he tutoring will take place at recruiting tutors for this year's Horace Mann School from J to 5 lutorial Program. If you have at daily and at King School from 6 least one hour a week to help to 9 daily. ~omt>one; why not spend it !raining and Orientation will helping those kids who are asking he provided for the tutor . tor help? How about you? Are you Does a tutor have to have interested? If only an hour a ~pecial skills? Not for most week? If so; write: subjects. What is important is • ·Joe Campbell that the student receives Educational Director encouragement from someone 700 Craig Street who 1s interested in their Carver Community Center education. Schenectady, N.Y. 12307 or call 374-8457 or 3464855. You Can't Take ..,-;;-~ - i[ Aloal ~ ol bread _t.( aJug olwlne t t t t It With You J: . or sangria • The Freshman play is now in production, to be performed on November 8, 9, 10, and 13, 14, 15, and 16. Pictures above are, from left to right Jack Stein, Margaret-Ann Maloney, Gary Haber. J and l£ 'Thou. ~ ·.~ Find happiness at Steak & Brew ... great steaks, burgers and roast prime rib of beef, plates and plates of fresh good things from the earth at the famous salad bar and pitcher after pitcher of good things to drink (for just 50¢ per person). Dine in the cheerful surroundings of an English Pub and then linger in The Lounge. Bring a special friend or the whole gang-Steak & Brew will do the rest. i WI Honor the l\merlc4NI Ex~ Caid ···---···· PRESENT THIS COUPON TO YOUR WAITER AT DillER FOI Sl.OOOFF (PER PERSON Pll COUPON) OffEit GOOD IJIITIL DEC. 3t, tt74 NOT GOOD WITH ANY OTHER STEAK & BREW PROMOTION OR MENU SPft:IAL Page 7

i I ' ! ~ ' ' . •' 8 Oct. 16, 1974 ' BLITHER AH students interested in going to the 'Soviet Union in Dec~mber with Mrs. Jernakoffs group will meet Wednesday. October 16 at 8:00 P.M. in Humanities 119. * * * * The 4th Annual Tour-de-Union will be nm Sun., Oct. 20 at 1:00. The race will begin in front of Alpha Delta Phi Tearns consist of 4 people, with a limit of 15 teams, so sign up now in Student Activities. * * * * Seniors: If ygu didn't have a sitting when the photographer was on campus and you would like to take .a formal picture for the senior section, please cantact Shafer Studios as. soon as possible to arrange for a sitting. · The fee, $3..12 is payable !ll the time of the sitting. Shafer Studies, 70 N. Brand}\Vine Ave., Schenectady, N.Y. >72-3560. * * * * .. Please contact Ms. Marra in Student Activities or Ms. Kilgus, Housing, if you are in charge of a can d y , soda or cigarette machine on cam pus. * * *' * Original Oriental Art E:xllibition & Sale, Art Dept., Wed., Nov. 6, l0-6. Arranged by Marson Ltd., Baltimore, Mel. Three positions are now open on tile Film Committee, two of which are for freshmen only. In addition, the Election Committee has openings for five assistants; three of which rnust be filled by freshmen. Interested students may pick up applications starting Thursday from Mrs. Marra at the Student Activities Office. * * * :1< FLU CLINIC - for faculty, staff, students, employees; Health Service Silliman Hall (free!): Friday Oct. 11, from 1 I:OO am to noon Friday Oct. 18, from ll:OOam tQ noon '* * * * How'd you like some cold beer arid some Warm Grass? Phi Sigma Kappa is hosting our famous Hcrnecoming Band Party, Saturday, Oct. 19 at 9:00. WarmGrass will provide f<Jur great h()urs of music to dance by. Come meet the Brothers and Little Sisters at 1461 Lenox Road, just past the Fieldhouse. It's party time! * * * * Needed - Ushers, ticket sellers, and ticket tackers for Social Committee concerts this term. Anyone interested may sign up at Student Activities_ or · call.370-6634. · * * * * ' Karate Club will meet this term on Thursdays and Fridays from 1:30 to :30 in Arts 202. * * * * Next meeting of the StU(Jent-Faculty Bridge Club on Tuesday, Oct. 29 at 7:45 in tho~· Hale House Upper Lounge. All are wel~ome. Results of the last meeting are: · · First: Profs. Goodheart and Bacon Second: Goodman and Spivack Third: Desrochers and Warner tied whh Mills and Millman. * * ,.* ·*·~···_ .. ... ~~ Any Freshmen who would like to earn som~ money by being a projectionist for the college, please call Jay Pomerantz at 372-0172 or 370- 6404or leave your name in Dean Wylen':s office (Eailey 101) * * ... * Film Committee presents lNGA on Saturday the 19 and Sunday the 20 at 7, 9, and 11 pm in SS016. Admission .SO * * * * <;>nora Nell,. Professor of Philosophy at Barnard College will read a paper entitled \I:fow Do We Know When Opportunities Are Equal?\ on Tuesday Oct. 22 at 4:30 in SS016. * * * * The Philosophy . Dept. will hold a brief ceremony and reception on Saturday, October 19, 1974, at. 12:15, P.M. in the Humanities Faculty Loun~e t,o accept a gift from Mr. and Mrs. Thomas A. Corbett in memory of the1r son, Edward A. Corbett '73. A11 interested members of the Union community.are invited to join us•in honoring Ed's memory. . . · * * * * Student Representatives on the Board of Trustees will be at Strauss Lounge on Thursday at 1() P.M. to answer questions regarding recent decisions affecting the college. * * * * Placement Interviews -all day Thursday the.l7 at 17 South Lane :l' * '* * Administr~tio~ an~ Engi11eering Systems Colle>quium presents Professor. Frank Stelmack m Bailey Room 310 at 4:00 pm on Thursday the 17th. * * * * Pawell Checinski in an All-Chopin C~Jneert on Thursday the 17th at 8:00 pm in the Memorial Chapel. * * * * Organizational meeting for all those interested in French conl'ersation on Friday the 18 at 3:00 pm in the Hale House Lounge. If interested but unable to attend, call Margot Oliver .at 372-3993. The Coffee House presents Goebel and Lang in the Old Chapel Qn Friday 18 at 8:30 pm. Admission .5() FIVE ROOMS AVAILABLE FOR P.ARTI ES AND BANQUETS ROOM FOR RENT Feaharing Italian-American Cuisine Located over Peter Pause Restaurant, 535 Nott St. .3 Bedroom~, LiviugroDin, Bath and Kitchen. $15 per week (Heat, Water, Electricity included). See Peter Pause Proprietors for Info. ... . ~ .. .... .... .. ... . . mof~t!,. :Je,.I'O ; le:Jfaurartf Free Patklng 111 S liARREtr STREET SCHENECTADY, N. Y. Open 7 Days a Week ' '· ~ Tel. bl 6·9554 or FR 7·26.42. - · ~cenario of the future? West End li lifeguard watches the \beach boys, flounder. Concordy, through its extensive on the alleged plans, hoWever, investigative network.relial:>le sources indicated the crisscrossing the world, from purpose of the move is to bring a Orient Point to New Hyde Park, \muc)l needed touch of Long and from Great Neck to Valley Island\ to the campus. · Stream, has learned that major Further ramifications of the changes are in store for the West plan include btinging Guy College area of the campus. Lombardo to campus in a These plans call for West productio11 of South Pacific, to he College to be re-named West End performed on the water in the II\. In addition, the area between brook that bounds. the wall and West is to be filled Concordy promises to keep its with sand, with a life guard collective nose to the wind and station teplacing the flag .pole. deliver all the facts of this case as There was no official commenf• they occur. a•••••••••••••••··~: : ~= :-== it::: -::- : • • • • : ~: • • • • . -~ • • • • • • We want you to . \Hear\ the • : difference at the Skeller - Try us in : e the QUIET hours of the afternoon. e • • • Monday thru Friday, from 2 to· 4 • • P.M.: Just for Trying .... • • • • We'll give you 1 cup of coffee or 1 • • small soda FREE with ANY • • • e Purchase! • • • • Afternoons are slow and the juke • • box volume is kept low - \You will • • • e bear the Quiet \ • • • : at the i • • • : Skellar : =···~···· ... ·········= . .. . : . ' ~ . . .... - La pubt break new· to be chanE chefi illust has .c is 1 inter: AE Saga ·regu whic the appr have n wori at t $27• uppe n per have Tl term this T of a and anv exp~ incc preE that an deci col adn con maj offi req1 issu for ( whi am sti[ yet ve· for aid pre Bir oc Un fin; qUI up: tui to fin ad co co~ sin an fin qu , int stt re• co wi I ··•··· I

the ga the a be its as • •• • • • • • • • CONCORDIENSJS, Wednesday, Oct. 16, 1974 Page9 - SAGA. Serves Varied Me11u Last M &y., Concoi(Uensis pubtished a math.ematical breakdown and analys1s of the. new opt·ion meal pllmsschectu'led to he offered by Saga. On the off- chance that you don't' saVe ·and cherish yoJlr backO:lssues of this illustriou·s jol:lrnal, this r~porter has dug up all the old figures, and 1 s ready with new critical interpretations o{ them. by BLAIR R:EJSCHER . ' winter and spring terms, althol\gh they must take one of them. Upperclassm~n are free to get their mahwtrition anywhere they want to. The option is thiis: For each meal missed at West, $1.25 worth of food may he bought at Hale House or at the Rathskeller. No change is given o'n purchases totaling ·less than $1.2S.,. and punches must be used within the sa,me week that they appear on the meal :ticket (you can't drink your who1e meal ticket th~<_ (irst week of the tern:J.). According to previous figures~ As you mayer may not know, Saga offers four meal plans: The ·regalar' 20, costing $249 per term which aU freshmen must buy for the fall term and which approximately 50 upperclassmen have this term. U1e 20 'with optlons' {$1.25 worth of food at Hale House or at the . Rathskellar.) This costs $270 per term and 45 upperclassmen have it this term. • the ten-meal plan is the biggest rip...aff of all the plans. The cost of the plan hreakll c:lown to $18.48 per week. l'f you spend it only at the ;;;keUer you get ten punche's totaHng$'12.50 invalue per week. The l4 'with option' costs $239 per term. Seventy ,upperclassmen have it this term. · The 10 'with option' at $197 per term. 35 upperclassmen have it this tenn. The straight twenty is requi11ed of aU freshrpen. for the fall term, and freshmen are .allowed to take an'\1 of the other plans in the II c.s.s. 11 Continued fro\! Page 1 expense of minority and lower income applicants. Thirdly, the president was deeply concerned · that the CSS board, even thoUgh an independant body, made this decision without consulting college and university administrators. ·At -presentj he is considering sending a letter to major college and university. officials thro1tghout the country requesting their views on this issue and eliciting their support for his position. Concrete information, such as which income bratkets will be affected and to . what extent, is still sparse. The revision has not yet been implem~nted, but final v e r i fica. t i o n s h o u l d b e forthcoming since the financial aid office must begin processing pro~pective aid figures of \Early Bird\ applicants by the end of OctQber . The CSS revisipn will force U nip!} College policy .. makers. tu find answers to some difficutt questions: Will financial aid to upperclassmen be cut? Will tuition be raised {urther in order to compensate for the ~xpected financial aid deficit? Will admissions standards be compromised for mo·netary co11siderations? Or will Union simply disregard the CSS plan an-d risk being priced out of the financial market? These are questions which either directly or 'This is a loss of $5.98· •per \Veek. If spent on seven dinners and: three . lunches at West, you get $19.24 worth of food (based on the per meal p·r:ice at West: Breakfast $1.04, Lun\h and Sunday Brunch $.1.56, Dinner $2.08,.Steak Dinner $2.60) saving 76 cents per week. The foutteen .. meal option plan breaks down to $22.13 per week If spent only at the skeller, it buys $12.50 worth offood. lf spent on seven dinners, six lunches and Sunday brunch at West, you get _ $25.48 worth of theals {again based on the per-meal prices). Thi& will save you $3.45 per week; if you eat at the skeller, you lose $((q per week, · · · · : 1:. ~ I' -' The twenty~meal plan with the option breaks down to $2'5.31 per week. Eating at the slceller, you ge~ exactly $25 worth of ~opd. This is only a loss of 31 cent-5 per week. The cost .of twenty me;ils.at. West (when bought individually) is $31.72 plus 52 cents on steak nights. Buying this plan sa~es money over the per-meal cost at West, but the ZO-meal plan without options saves you more. Saga figures that you will miss a certain number of meals each week if you are on the twenty meal plan, so they figure the price accordingly. Last year, When the no-option fourteen meal plan was the only alternative to the regular twenty, it cost only $20 less, because they expected that someone on this plan would eat ahnost all their alloted meals. If you want to be on a twenty meal A committee has been appointed to consider the granting of tenure to Jan K. tudwig. Anyone wishing to comment upon Professor Ludwig's qualifications should write to one of the following committee members, being as , indirectly affect every Union student, and are ones which will tequire ntuch consultation and constructive criticism to be dealt With effectively. specific as possible. · . William J. Daniels (Political Science) Sven R. Peterson (Philosophy) '\For three G . . • eneratlons -.. Kenne1h L. Schick (Physh:s) Samsoil O.A. Ullmann (English)~ chairman p:Ja.n, the option plan may be worth the extr<} $21. if you sometimes skep throu,gh breakfast, or go away on weekends, or eat out. To be exact, if you miss more than seventeen meals at West this. term, the option p.lan is actually more economical (assuming that you would have spent :$2:1 or more at the Rathskeller in t-he tenn anyway). With regards to fraternities, Saga wiT! pay rebates for pledges eating at thdr ft:aternities, but only for the 14 and 20 mea I p Ians: $2.30jday for the fourteen meal ,plan, and $2.40/ day for both the twenty mea.l plans. Throngs line up for SAGA's culinary delights. Saga is offering a new dea~ at Hale House this term: $:2.25 for unlimited se<;onds at dinner, Monday thraugh Fr.iday,. 5 to 6 PM. This is for all the items on the menu, costs just 25 cents more. than eating at West. (ofCourse, if you have an o:ptlon-plan, it's prubalJly not worth two punches, when· one gets you all you can at West.). for next term within a few weeks, in order so that they can be advance-billed. Keep your eyes open for the small print announcements from the Housing Office. slightly due to Saga's decision to add a 4% tax to the prices of individual meals bought at West. lax is included in m~al plans, and presumably is included when Items are bought a Ia carte at the Rathskeller or at Hale House with an option plan. The Rathskeller does add on tax for normal purchases. Note: All the computations for this article were done last spring, but a few had to be revised If last year is any precedent, freshmen will be required to request changes in their meal plan Gareia~s ·Bead Mindless Movie made by Peckinpah By JACK PITNEY As an action director, Sam Peckinpah rides tall in the saddle, but as an existentialist philosopher, he is definitely in the hobby-horse league. This is painfully evident in his latest film, Bring Me the Head of Alfredo Garcia. The plot is as ludicrous as the title. A Mexican aristocrat (Emilio Fernandez) offers a million dollars for the decapitation of the man who impregnated his daughter. A seedy piano-player (Warren Oates.) seeks the head as a ticket to a new life for himself and his girlfriend (lsela Vega). Instead, his quest leads to death, bitterness and most of all 1 boredom . You see, by the time the film begins, Alfredo has already died in an automobile accident. So in place of slowly mounting suspense, Peckinpah offers a plateful of symbolism with a side order of blood. Garcia's head supposedly represents the ultimate alienation of man from ·himself. In reality, it is. the focal point of much of the film's unintentional humor. For . instance, when Oates gives the heaa a shower to keep the flies away, someone in the theater is bound to say, \The Wet Head is Dead!\ The performances do not compensate for what is lacking in the script. Miss Vega is obviously a fine actress, but her part calls for her to do little more than look sexy.Oates has likewise shown his · talents in films such· as The Wild Bunch and Dillinger, but in Garcia he dtsplays only two emotions: 'Tortured and Very Tortured. LOVE IS Love is a giving thing, so give the gift of love ... a Keepsake diamond ring. Choose from perfect solitaires, beautiful matched sets and trios. Modern and traditional settings in precious 14K gold. Keepsake, there is no finer diamond ring. Tuplubullum LADVLOVI, AACII[l.LAOY VALLlY BRtHANIA f,MReg AH PondCo Find your Keepsake J.ewelers 10 the Yellow pages or dial free 800·j!4::l·6000 In Conn 800·882·5500 r--------------------···-------------··-··---·-···--------·-----------------------------·-··- i HOW TO PLAN YOUR ENGAGEMENT AND WEDDING ! Send new 20 pg. booklet. \Planning Your Engegemenl and Wedding\ plus 1· full color folder and 44 pg. Bride's Book gtlt offer all for only 35¢. F·74 ! I Name 1 tPJe:r.S:e Pt~nn 1 i l 1 Address 1 Perhaps Peckinpah wanted to imitate Sartre in his depiction of disillusio,nment and despair. After ·:;::: ~:::,, all, the piano player keeps ·'-·· * 1:66 J.a\-' St.. \'· bl' tl a· t h •· lookt't·lg fo· r ;!, ! ~ I : I ,··:: · :t mum mg 1 e s :;:~~~ f·1.1r tL,n~..·:! \e·~\ :l\t ··· '' way out., But another No ,,,,.,. . , •• ::[:,= a , . . ,.,,, .!\nd ( ,,,t'll.! .lewtlb· ' Exlt\ ~\~~~::::::::·:.:::·::::::::::=::::::~K:::~:.;.::::::f.::;:::,:: . .- ... ~:::;:,:;:;:;:.~:~r~~!,~,.~,~~:.;:..,,.:·;.,}1~:~,~;~.:,: .. ,.~.~-:::!::~.~:!.~ .. ,.,.<.,:,.J} ' N~ '·way, J, II, State Z•P------------- ' . l. Ki;~PSAKE; .OIAMqNO·J'IINGS·. BOX 90. SYRACWSE. N.Y. 13201 l L~~·-··~--··-••••·••~·~·--••~•••••••·~~-··•~•~··~••••••-·•••-•·-•••••••••••••-··-••••••-••••••4

Oct. 16, 1974 . ,' ' ' ' . ,!l· ' ' ·.0. [E)' ·~ ~n~~ .~· .. or .. ' ~cenario of the future? West End II lifeguard watches the \beach boys\ flounder. Concordy, through its extensive on the al'leged plans, however, investigativ~ network. reliable sources indicated the crisscrossing the world, from purpose of the move is to bring a Orient Point to New Hyde Park, \muc}l needed touch of Long and from Great Neck to VaHey Island\ to the campus. Stream, has learned that major Further ramifications of the c~anges are in store for the West 'plan include btinging Guy C ?l.Iege area of the campus.. Lombardo to campus in a I hese plans call for West production of South Pacific to be College to be re-named West End performed on the Water in the II\. In addition, the area between brook that bounds. · th~ wall and ~est is to be filled Concordy promises to keep its With sand, With a life guard collective nose to the wind and s~!ion teplacing the flag pole. deliver all the facts of this case as I here was no official com•·nenr·· they occur. a•••••••••••••••··~· • • • ·• ~= : ---= J::::: ::- ' '. • • • • • • . ~. • • • • . -~ . • • - . • • • We want you to . \Hea;r\ the • : difference at the Skeller - Try us in : e the QUIET hours of the afternoon. • • • •• Monday thru Friday, from 2 to· 4 P.M.: Just for Trying ..• : • • We'll give you 1 cup of coffee or 1 .• small soda - FREE with ANY • •• e Purchase! • • • • Afternoons are slow and the juke e : box volume is kept low - \You will • e hear the Quiet \ • • • • • : at the : • • i Sliellar i ·~···~·················= CONCQRDIENSJS. Wecinesday, Oet.16~ 1974 SAGA· Serves Varied Menu Last May, Conco~tliensis published a tnath.emati<:al breakdown and analysts of the new option meal plans scheduled to be offered by Saga. On the off· chance that you don 1 t' save ·and cherish yojlr hack\issues of this illustriou~ journal, this reporter has dug up all the old: figures, ami is ready with new cFitical interpretations of them. ·by BLAJR REISCHER winter and spring terms, altho1,1gh they must tiJ,ke one of them. IJ pperclassrnen are free to get their rnalnutr~tion aJlywhere they want to. The option is. thois: For eac.h meal missed at West, $1,25 worth ·of food ma,y be bought at Hale !·lcouse or at the Rathskeller. No ehange is given on purchases tota-ling Jess than $ L25, and punches must be u·sed within the same wee'k tha;t they app~ar on the meal tick.et (you can't drink your whole meal ticket t~ first week of the tenri}. Accordin,g to previous figures, :plan, the option plan may be worth the extra $21 if you sortletim es steep t:h rough breakfast, or go away on weekends, or eat out, To be exact,. if you mi~s more than seventeen meals at West this te!Til, the option plan is actually m<:>te economical (assuming that you would have spent $21 or more at the Rathskeller in the term anyway). As YoU ffi!lY or rn.ay not know, Saga <>ffers four meal p1ans: The 'reglila,r' 20, costing $249 per term which all freshmen must buy for .the fall term and which approximately 50 upperclassmen have this term. The 20 .'with option~;!' ($1.25 worth of food at Ha·le House Qr at th~ Rathskella-r.) This costs $276 per t~rm and 45 uppercl!lssmen have it this ter-m. • the ten .. meal plan is the biggest rip-off of all the plans. The cost of the plan breaks down to $18.48 per week. if you ~pend it only at the skeller you get ten punches .totaling $12.50 in value per week. With r!!ga•rds to fraternities, Saga will pay rebates for pledges eating at their fraternities, but only for the 14 and 20 meal pi;lns: $2.30jday for the fourteen meal plan, and .$2.40./day fo.r both the tw~nty meal plans. Saga is offering a new deal at Hale House this term: $2.25 for unlimited se<;onds at <Hnnet, Monday through Friday, 5 to 6 PM. This is for all the items on the menu, costs jllst 25 cents. more . th~tn eating at West. (of Course, if you have an option-plan, ifs prO.b~!'bly not worth two punches, when one gets you all you cafi at West.). The 14 'With option• cost& $239 per term~ Seventy ,upperclassmen have it this term. · The 10 'with o1Jtion' at $197 per term. 35 upperclassmen have it this tenn. The straight twenty is required of all: fresh,IT~en for the fall terrn. and freshmen are allowed to take anv of the other _plans in the This is a loss of$5.98·per week. lf spent on severt din:ners and three . lv,nches at W es~ you get $19.24 wo.rth of food (based on the per meal price at West: Breakfast $1.04, Lunch andSunday Brunch $1.56, Dinner $L08, Steak Dino.er $2.60) saving 7& cents. per week. II c.s.s. II <~ontinued fro~ Pag~ I expense of minority and lower income applicants. Thirdly, the president . Was deeply concerned · that the CSS board, even though an independant body, made this decision withoat consulling college and university administrators. ·At present, he is considering sending a letter to major college and university officials throughout the country requesting their :views on this issue and eliciting their support for his position. Concrete information, such as which income brackets will be affected and to what extent, is still sparse. The revision has ndt yet been implemented, but final v e r i fi c ati o n s h o 1,1 I d b e forthcoming since the financial aid office must begin processing prospective aid figures of \Early Bird,. applicants by the end of Octo_ber. The CSS revision will force U nipn College policy-makers to. find 'answers to some difficalt questions: Will financial aid to upperclassmen be cut? Will tuition be raised further in order to compensate for the !'!xpected financial aid deficit? Will admissions standards be compromised for monetary considerations? Or will U niort simply disregard the CSS plan and risk being priced oat of the financial. market? These are questions which either directly or · indirectly affect every Union student, and are ones which will reqaire much cofisultati()n and constructive criticism· to be dealt with effectively. LeVt.:S Da._'i. M• Shop «DfMdeSt. (doWDtOWil Th.e fourteen-meal option plan breaks down to $22.13 per week If spent only at the skeller;. it buys $1·2;50 worth of food. If spent on seven dinners, six lunches and Sunday brunch at West. you get . $25.48 worth of meals (again based on· the per•meal pri(les). This will save you $3.45 per week; if you eat at the skelle-r, you lose $4~6q per week. · · : r,.' . ~ The twenty-meal plan with the option breaks dowrt to $25.31 per week. Eating at the skellet, you get. exact!Y $25 worth of food. This is only a loss of 31 cent'S per week. The cost <Jf twenty meil:ls:at. West (when bought individually) is $31.72 pIus 52 cents on steak nights. Buying this plan saves money over the :per-meal cost at West, but the 20-meal plan without options saves you more. Saga figures that you will miss a certain number of meals each week if you are on the twenty meal pl&n~ so they figure the price accordingly. last year, when the no-option fourteen meal plan was the only alternative to the regular twenty, it cost only $20 less, because they expected that someone on tllis plan would eat almost all their alloted meals. If you want to be on a twenty meal A committee has been appointed to consider the granting of tenure to Jan K. Ludwig. Anyone wishing to comment upon Professor Ludwig's qttalifications should write ~o one of the following committee members; being as specific as [JOssible. W illi!UI\ J. 0 anie Is (Political Science) Sv-en R. Peterson (Philosophy) Kenneih L. Schiel< (Pbysics) Samson O.A. Ullmann (English~~ chairman If last year is any precedent, freshmen will be required to request changes in their meal plan Gareia~s Head Mindless No vie made by Peckinpah By JACK PITNEY As an action director, Sam Peckinpah rides tall in the saddle, but as an existentialist philosopher, he is definitely in the hobby-horse league. This is painfully evident in his latest film, Bring Me the Head of A lfi'edo Garcia. The plot is as ludicrous as the title. A Mexican aristocrat (Emilio Fernandez) offers a mill i o n do 11 ar s for t h e decapitation of the man who impregnated his daughter. A seedy piano-player (Warren Oates) seeks the head as a ticket to a new life for himself and his girlfriend (.lsela Vega). Instead, his quest leads to deatlt, bitterness and most of all, boredom. You see, by the time the film begins, Alfredo has already died in an automobile accident. So in place of slowly mounting suspense, Peckin,pah offers a plateful of symbolism with a side order of blood. Garcia's head supposedly represents the uli:imate alienation of mart from -himself. In reatity., it is the focal point of much of the film's unintentional humor. For . instance, when Oates gives the heai:l a shower to keep the flies away, someone in the theater is bound to say, '\The Wet Head is Dead!\ The performances do not compensate for what is lacking in the script. Miss Vega is obviously a fine actress, but her part calls for her to do little-more than look sexy. Oates has likewise shown his talents in films such· as The Wild Bunch and Dillinger, but in Garcia he displays only two emotions: 'Tortured and Very Tortured. for nex in ord advance op.en announ Office. Note this a111 but a Find 1 r--- : I l I ~For three Gen~rati()h~ • Perhaps Peckinpah wanted to imitate Sartre in his depiction of disillusio.nment and despair. After aU, the piano player keeps h'~ t!. rlk'\; \\ic-; ~·n. ·\hd lr,\c'll! J~wt.\l·r :t.' mumbling that he is looking for .t· \a way out:• Rut another No :,,~; ·· ,Exi,t? . . • . , ~ . ..~ No way. t ....

Page 10 CONCORDIENSIS Wednesda , Oct. J.6, 1974 by ELINOR NELSON The Women's Caucus held its fhst meeting on Monday, Oct. 14 at 20 I Carnegie HalL. After a resume of last year's activities and accomplishments, the goals for this year were d:iscu.ssed. Last year~ one of the ptojects the Women's Caucus sponsored was a Women's Week. There were panels, a d'ance, a d·inner, a Planned Parenthood film, and Mary Ann Krupsak, came to speak. Unfortunately, there was not a very large turnout, but those who attended the activities really enjoyed them. They hope to be able to stage something similar this year. Another very worthwhile program they had last year was a freshman recruiting service. The girls who had been accepted were invited to come up, attend classes, and even spend the night if they wished. As someone who took advantage of this, I found it extremely beneficial and got very positive feelings about Union from the day l spent here. In addition, last year, several people, male and Jemale, were attacked on some of the poorly lighted areas of the campus.The Women's Caucus has been working to improve the lighting situation. One of the major aspects of a women's group anywhere is the organ.iza.tion of consciousness raising .(CR) groups. Two groups were formed iast year and others are now being created. CR groups include 8-12 people and meet for a bout 2 I) ours per week. It is not a gossip session, but a time for a discussion of common problems, experiences, and insights. The administration of the Women's Caucus differs from the average club in that there are two co-chairpeople, Margie Cohen and Alicia Jackson. They are elected each term so that the same people don't ,exert too muc.h control The elections will be next week for secretary,. treasurer, and publicity manager. One of the basic problems at Union College is fha( as the popu'lati-on of women 1s increasing, the .population of women faculty members is decreasing. Last year there were 10 female faculty members and now there are only 6 full time. There a,re three women in administrative positions but the Caucus feels a Dean of Women Students is needed. Her job would be to help the women 'students with their problems and to work on abolishing the often blatant problems women have here. It was also brought up that a competent· woman in the counseling service would be a great help. Although there are two excellent men in counseling, it is hard, sometimes, for women to discuss their problems with men. WORLD CAMPUS AfLOAT Contrary to some people's , beliefs; the Women's Caucus is not a radical group. Their sole purpose is to attempt to improve the women's situation at Union College. And, let's face it; there's a lot of work to be done. You'If sail in February, with the ship your class· room and the world your campus ... combining ac. credited studies with fasci. nating visits to 'the fabled ports bf the Orient, Africa, and the Arnericas. Over 10,000 students from 450 colleges have already sailed with WCA- join them! Fi· nancial aid available. Write today for free catalog. WCA, Chapman College Box F, Orange, CA 92666 LeVI'S D••e's· Met~~ Shop $State St. (do.mtc»wn Sclienct1ady) Dr. Robert Webb, a Union graduate, lectures in SSOJ6. For over SO yts. the oldest lunch in the area has been serving 1st Prize hotdogs with , an ()riginaJ sauce. Also try our dinners - a differ'ent one every night. NEWEST LUNCH 715 ALBANY ST. SCHENECTADY 377-6580 7 Days a Week Fri. & Sat. till 4:00AM Face it friends; no way in the world are you going to slog through an entire yea:r at Union without at least one taste of those delightful swamp nose blues. Let's take a look at the blues by focusing in on you, poor lost geek that you are, while i'n the throes. It's eight-forty-five and your alarm clock hasjust snatched you off of a sun-drenched beach in the Canibean and plopped- you back into yoursaggy bed in the Electric City. A quick peek through slit eyes tells you that it's snowing outside and celd enough to freeze the testicles off a polar bear. The mere thoogfut of getting out of bed, not to mention haullng Your ass across the tundra to class, is enough to send you intn a slobbering, catatonic stupor. You ,try to swallow and discover that during the night some microscopic dwarf with well-filed track spikes .has been sprinting the 220 up and down your esophagus. You try to breathe and suddenly realize that your nose is running like the Middle Fork of the Salmon River and has been for most of the night. With a frantic grope for a box of Kleenex vou knock over bottles The Schenectady Jaycees are currently amassing books from public and private sources to donate to the inmates of the Great Meadows Correctional Facility, a maximum security prison . located in Comstock, New York. Any and all books, bQth hardcover and paperback, will be accepted. Those interested in donating books stiould contact Mr. John Barrie at 345-IliOS. The Jaycees will arrange tQ pick up all donated books. The inmates at Great Meadows are for the most part serv.iilg long sentences and there are currently few books to read. FOR LIQUOR AND WfN£. Try · Jake Lipstein's ACE CAftDS & GIFTS 175 J.ay Street (off State) You'll Love Our Image, Gordon Fraser & Paw Print Cards. Come See! AlL IN THE FAMilY LU:IGI'S h 123JAY ST .. Kitchen Open 11:30 A.M.-10 P . .M. Bud on Draft RESTAURANT SPECIALIZING IN Italian - American Food ·1125 BARRETT ST. SCHENECTADY 016-97 44 by SAMUEL HUGHES squat, including your 'own voice, but you proud-ly conclude by the dazed: look on his face that you've really stumped him. By this time, of course, you've totally forgotten what his original question was, but since for some reason he seems to be avoiding your corner M the room like a: leper~s den it doel'!n~t really matter. You dism.iss him as a paranoid psychotic and snort some Dristan, ftee at last to space out to your diseased heart's content. of Nco-Synephrine,: · Dristan; Vick's Inhaler and that jug of Phil's Special Stash Bourbon that kissed you off to dreamland a few short hours before. Coughing like an elephant With Black Lung Disease you stagger ,inte the bathroom, focus your eyes onto the image that's trying to do the sarne in the mirror and brace yourself for the dry heaves that inevitably accompany such a sight. \' ou then snort some Nco- Synephrine and wait for that fabulous rush; ten minutes and two more boxes of Kleenex later At the end of class you are you aim yourself in the direction . confronted by a· nuinber of of class. ch9ices,:-.;, ¥ou · can go , to the iiifirmafY, Where you. will be ,handed a vile Iauking glass of bubbling white liquid. \Drink d·rink!\ the fiendish ladies cackle. Whether . or not a mixture of garlic, Limburger cheese, eye of newt, anemic taod, . Marino~s Flying Pizza, Drano and dry ice will cure you, however, is debatable; one patient downed a sQot of the stuff several years· ago and . disappeared from campus within two hours. He was last seen in Walla Walla Washington living off roots and berries and searchin.e; for Y omo Dobro J o, You slither into your nine thirty, a huddled, sniveling me~s. \Gud mordig,\ you croak. An anemic toad outside the window, mistaking your voice for a compatible mate itJ. heat, hops up onto the ledge and begins hurling itself at the glass. You, however, are no more cognizant of a toad than of your poor professor, who has. been calling your name at a steadily rising decibel count since you entered the room. Not until the clown next to you ~ticks his pencil a good three inches into your rib cage does it occur to you that perhaps you'd better summon whatever meager powers , of concentration are at your disposal and figure out jtLst what frequency the rest of the world is operating in. The professor repeats the question a few times and finally it begins to sink in. You decide to' staU by' firing a question back at Him. Go on, hit him with a tough one. ''Siooga glooga glorp?\ Your ears still aren't registering Continued on Page 11 All dogs on campus must be registered. The fine for having an unregistered do~ is $100. Dogs can be registered at the Secmity Office ($15 for regisf,fation . plu~· a $35 deposit). All dogs wiD be checked for registration tags w hetlier or no~ they are under control. . ' - mo the obj 1 oth' pro phi sim the Col pr< soc .( Ris fav• ren tax: exp So1 ( An fro def f Sm tim stri No glo em .. say in I h~u wa1 wa1 om He Sci Ho am jl a i pre con am sup cor stu' F Pr< the Ki8 off lOt ser dis; wh th' ace wh aff. arg Ki! th, ina affo be 0p1 Wi1 I

the was, he it miss and: st to art's are of the be ink, kle. of of ice is a pus CONCORD! EN SIS, Wednesday~ Oct, I 6, 1974 \ \ Page 11 .. ' Ristorucci on Communism Continued from Page t most .cases; the themselves 1 'didn't objections correctly.\ cha:llenge rs file their the ca:nd idate d isrnssed the other minor parties. either as proponents of co1,1servative philosophies or as ''idealists similar to the utopian socialists of the past.\ He said that the Communist P~trty was the sole prop()n.ent of _''scientifi~ socialism.\ . Getti11g down t<.> specifics, Ristorucci stated that !his pavty· favon;d: rolihacks o~ prices !l:nd rents, free mec;lical care, heavy taxation of 1he wealthy and the expansion of detente with· the_ Soviet Union. On this last point;he said that Arnerica,ns have nothing to fear from Russia lis and that the huge defense budget was a waste. He spoke ~lowingly of the Soviet Union, referring several times to th~ ~u ssians' tremendous strides iq industry and science. Not surprisingly, he attempted to· gloss over s,ucil issues as Jewish emigration a:nd internal disse-nt. \lt is only the top professionals who want to emigrate, Jike scientists, authors, baHet dancers,\ he claimed. \They w.ant to sell out just for the money:\ He d.id nof proVide any evidence on this count, however. The t:::andidate· further stated that Aleks~ndr Solzhenitsyh ·left t?e S~v~et Union simply to ohtain siX mdhon dollars' worth of back royalties. This ~as a particularly strange allegation, considering that Solzhenitsyn was forced out of the country and that he Is donati11g most of his r<>yalties to the effort to support freedom in the Soviet Union. During a questiott-and-answer period, Ristorucci extolled the Soviets' dedication to \freedom of infOPmation.\ He said that .the Russian people have access to a wide variety' ·of sources of news about tile West. Furthermore, he argued that the ~oviet' Union had no imperialist designs anywhere in the world. When someone raised the examples of Rumania and Bulgaria. the candidate referred to the Communist take-overs of these countries as .. genuine people's revolutions.\ Sure. A Kiss For Kissinger by JANET CHAPMAN \Any Secretary ·of State who says to a foiei~n reporter, either in bed or ou;t CJf bed, that he sees h~mself a ''c(}w-boy\ ought to be watched .awfully closely.\ Such was Professor Sharlet's answer to one of many questions regarding Henry K.issillger in the Political Science 'De~artment's second Ad Hoc Debate, \Cuba Kissinger and Chile.\ Ad Hoc Dei)ates are set up on a irregular basis. Whenever two professors disagree on a controversial issue, a debate is arranged. The decision of who supported his viewpoint in a more convincing rnamner is left. to the students' judgement. , Profes::;or Byron Nichols and Professor Robert Sharlet debated the why's .and wherefores of Kissinger's ex.pendability from office, on Hmrsday, October lOth. ·Professor Jospeh Board served as mediator. The major disagreements were based upon whether it is. Kissinger's fault that the gove£\nmertt isn't accomplishing ~u of its goals and whether his total personality affects foreign policy. Professor-Nichols presented his argument in. partial support of Kissinger. t'\ !though he believes that Kissinger acted inappropriately concerning the affairs of Chile: and Cuba, he still. belives tllat such covert operations would have existed without him. He emph.asized that \Foreign policy would have been the same under anyone holding Kissinger's position as Secretary of State.\ To prove his point he referred back in American history to the Hay of Pigs Invasion and the occasions when the U.S. interfered with the Cominican Republic and Guatemala. De'tente and normalized relations with China had also begun before Kissinger got his seat ·of power. According to Professor ·Nichols, Secretary of States are like tecltnicians, \They all do the same job.\ Professor Sharlet held an entirely different viewpoint as was shown by his opening statement, ··cuba si, Kissinger no, Chile never again.\ K isl!inger, or Dr: Spock (of Star Trek) as Sharlet .referred to him, is highly expendable. With five good reasons Sharlet supported his argument. I) ''Kissinger is U.S. . foreign policy, he defines it and ·expresses it.\ 2) Kissinger has. imperia I and authoritarian notions. 3) Kissinger believes himself . to have the power of messianic vision. 4) Kissinger's style and prophecies are crisis mongering. 5) Kissinger is personally insecure. i>rofessor Board summed up the debate in a fitting manner; he believes that it is not so much a questfon of Kissinger.'s expendability as much as the expendabil.ity of American roreign policy. I • Luxury Appointed Rooms ·• pRIMEWAY INNS • Affordable Rates •Color TV 1616 STATE STREET Intersection Rts. 5 & 7 Next to Howard johnsohs Schenectady, N.Y. (518)370-3000 .Blues Continued from Pag.e 10. the ·nin-;;teen year old perfect ass hole, Then~ are, of course, a number of alternatives available. My brother Boog really grooves on hot peppers and insists that three or more whole cherry peppers capped off by a bottle or se of Canadian Ace is the most dramatic/ medicinal breakthrough s.ince penicillin. He also fraternizes with Albanian dwarves and has been known to hold tomato orgies. in the cellar, so his word is best take.n with a grain of salt. lntramurals In the early going, Fred Weinstein's team has looked really tough in breezing through their first five opponents. Hank Bernstein's a,nd Fred Weil's teams also look like top contenders with both teams boasting 3-0 recotds. If forfeits can be kept to a minimuni, the Independent League could be quite competitive. Perenial powers Chi Psi. (lnd Sigma Chi maintained their first place status in the Fraternity Football League. Delta Upsilon, Theta Delta Chi and Delta Phi are aU in t~e running however and the race may go to the wire. FRAT FOOT:BALL STANDINGS ' Chi Psi AMERICAN W L 2 0 T 0 0 0 l I 0 0 D.U. Theta Delt Phi Gam Sig Phi Phi Sig P):ri Ddt 2 1 2 l 1 l I 2 0 4 0 4 NATIONAL W L Sig Chi 2 0 T 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 D. Phi 2 2 D. Chi I l Betas I 2 K.A. I 2 Psi U. 0 2 Alpha Delt 0 3 INDEPENDENT FOOTBALL STANDINGS Weinstein Bernstein Wei! Huntingt()n Deubert Birrittella Vesey Peck Chittim Lyons Eilbott Eggleston Hurewitz D. Rosenthal Taylor A Rosenthal Kahn W L T 5 0 0 3 0 0 3 0 0 2 0 'I 2 l 0 2 I 0 3 2 0 2 2 0 l 1 0 I 2 0 1 2 0 1 2 0 I 3 0 1 4 0 0 4 1 0 3 0 () 4 0 Luke's Supermarket Open 7 Days a Week 830 Eastern Ave. 346-9757 My personal favorite, a secret The bourbon has the advantage recipe smuggled over from the of doing the job without futzing Old Countiy, involves heading around for forty-five tninutes and down to PhWs and picking up you don't have to .put up with aU some of his Specia.J Stash the excess liquid sloshing around Bourbon. (Grower's Burgundy of in (and inevitably out of) your California at .$2.99 a gallon is an system. Only one word of caution acceptable substitute, and a is necessary hut shou~d be strictly couple ofpitt:hers ofSchlitz at the observed: don't wake up. Skeller will do in a pinch). The . Jiapp:y .diseas.e, rubes. . :pro.cedure is relatively;;.+ 9 ++·y·y 9 y •·• + straJ.ghtforward; go to bed, put · . your nightcap on the bedpost and afternoons. drink until you see two rtightca ps. M ()tio n pictures of the 1974 CurlirJg· Union's new curling facility will not be ready unt-il next year, but members of the student body, faculty and staff wishing to get an early start by participating in the sport this winter are invited to attend a meeting in SS 117 at 4 p.m. on Wednesday, October 23rd. l.f there is sufficient interest on campus, curling will commence on artificial ice at the Schenectady Curling Club early next month. Teams will be <>rganized and -matches can be. played on week-day and Saturday 7 Man. Soccer - Schedules available in Coach Scanlon's office. Games begin on Thursday. Platform Tennis - Deadline for the Mixed Doubles Platform Tennis Tournament is Oct. 21. Sign up in the gym. Singles and Doubles are also on tap if enough sign up. · Punt and Pass - Deadline for the first ever punt and pass competition is fast approaching. Rumor has it N.Y. Giant scouts will be in att~n(iance. Can you bear to watch ·r•.t\orm Snead for another season? Limber up then sign up in the gym, but before Oct. 22. . Coed Turkey Sh~of.:.;;_ Co~ples interested in competing on November 25 in an Archery Tournament, pick up entries at the gym. First prize is an (R.P.l.) turkey, second place prize is a chicken. Sign up deadline has been set for November 18. Intramural Cross-Country - The thir.d annual intramural cross-country runs will be held on Friday afternoon, November I st. The !-mile women's race begins at 2:45 P.M.; the 2~-mile open race is scheduled for 3:00 P.M. Students, faculty, staff and alumni are eligible. Awards to the first three finishers of each race; teams may represent any group. To register, see T.A. Bick, Bailey H~ll. Room 208C. Wodd's Curling Championships at Bern, Switzerland will be shown at the organizational meeting and cutting will be explained .by Prof. Joseph T. Maras and Alumni Director Jonathan Pearson II, both active curlers. . Nine years ago there were 48 Union students engagc;:d in curling. They played in several tournaments and claimed the eastern in te reo II egia te championship following a victory over a team from Yale. One of the 'Union curlers of this period later led a team to fourth place in the U.S. championships and has twice won the New York State title. J. V. Soccer by BOB HOWARD The junior var.sity hooters pushed their record into the winning side with a 2-1 victory over their counterparts from Albany State. The Dutchmen scored first on a goal by sophomor.e center forward Ira Sutton and continued to dominate most of the game. The only let-up by Union occured early in the second period when Albany managed to· slip one past goalie Cliff·Langweiler to tie the game. _ Union regained the lead with a little less than ten minutes left on a goal by freshman Jeff Lenewski and contint~ed their domination to preserve their victory. The defense, led by fullbacks Pete Martini, Billy Glevins, and Ray Freehill played exceptionally well. Keith Gaspaard, at inside halfback also played a fine all around game. The j.v.'s record now stands undefeated with one win and one tie. Coach Bill Scanlon's team next faces R.P.I. at home at 11:00 a.m_ on Saturday during Homecoming weekend. Watch Out! It's Coming Nov. 14-15 tevrs Da•e's· Mens Shop I 453 State St. ~downtown Schencetady) ~ Welcomes Everyone for Homecoming AND HAS BEEN fOR 38 YRS. MOFFETS LIQUOR STORE 1505 VANVRANKEN AVE. SCHENECTADY, N.¥.12308 PACKAGE HANDLING Part-time Employment Male or Female 72.ALTAMONT AVE. ' 5 D w k NO DELIVERY CHA.JUiE ays a ee ' 4 Hrs. a Day . WITH TWO· PTZZAS Eve. hrs. $3.80 per hr. WIDIU¥D mmL MIDNIGHT CONTACT UNITED PARCEL SERVICE Ca137~ ~-\ ·· :• - ..... A·vis Driye, I.atham, 738-0700· • -~~~~~~........ M.. M ~· S ;.t_,._ . .. ~ •.• · ........ _ . ·II' r.· .............. , •.. vii.<.il'\ll--il .. i.l. ll'iii.Oil\.iiiiit:.i•ii· i.iaiiirlriraiisii.,~t~idien\t .. A~i~d_, ... - ....... .. .. \\ \'.~ .... r t>-.

.. ll 1 Pagel2 CONCORDIBNSIS, Wednesdqy, Oct. 16; 1974 .. . ' . . ' ' . Missing Westbrook, Union's \0\ goes to the air. Rochester Downs Gridders by JOHN BREA U.LT The University of Roch~ster tUrned two interceptions into touchdowns and then held ·Off a late Union bid to post a 13-6 football victory over the Garnet last Saturday at Rochester. Union received the kick-off from Rochester but failed to mount a drive. The Union defense held however and after trading punts, Union got its first break of tile game when the snap from center was fumbled by quarterback Brian Paisley and recove.red. by sophomore Jim Trump. A clipping penalty kept Union from taking advantage then and the offense stalled on its· next two possessions as well. A partially blocked punt and a 38 yard punt return by senior captain Ron Westbrook kept Rochester bottled up. In the second period, a Rick Mayell pass was intercepted by Yello~jacket Ed E1ze .. Six plays later .Paisley passed 20 yards to Steve Callahan for the intial score and Jim Simboli kicked the extra point for a 7-0 Rochester lead at the half. Field. Hockey by LYN YELTON After fiVe years .. of coeducation, Union Will field its first formal hockey team this faH. With the help and coaching of Sheila Weaver, the new diireetor of women's sports, a . challenging schedule hs been planned, beginning this Saturday aftemoon at Russell Sage. Although \many members of the squad are new tg the sport, . the team shows great potential. rwo weeks ago, in an informal preseason scrimmage, Union defeated players of the Mohawk Valley Association,. l -0. Still, the true strength ~ndc.abUity ... is difficult to measure .at this point. Due to irregular q:nd often ·fnconvenient practice hours, as well as limited practice space, the entire team has not yet had the opportunity to play together as a single unit. Perhaps Saturday's game will provide the necessary · test a'Od from there,· the hockey team can take ~Hrection and instruction. Naturally, intercollegiat,e competition does not appeal to everyone. Yet, some sort of team organization is not only healthy but .n.ecessary to human development and understanding. For this reason, the women of lJ. CoL have formed a small intermurr: committee dedicated to the vrganizatioh of co-ed and faculty-student intermurals. Plans. have already been made for Sheila Weaver, Director of Women's Athletics intermural volleyball. A schedule will be set u.p &nd published ne.x:t week and play will begin in late October. The end of October-first of N ovem'ber has also been set aside for a J:niied-do!,lbles platfoiTll tennis tournament. As always, n•o · experi!>!nce is necessary, merel.Y • . get yourself a partner, sign up in the gym, start utilizing the athletic facilities available and have some fun meeting new friends. Bob Mathias recovered a fumble on Rochester's first possession bu't a 38 yard field goal attempt by Frnsh Mark Frampton fell short. Rochester's next series was halted by a Steve Andrew's interception, his · third of the year. Defensive back Debhardt returned the favor however as he pilfered a Rick Mayell aerial and sprinted 56 yards · to score. Tom Hood blocked the extra point attempt leaving Union with a 1'3-0 deficit. The fourth quarter brought a revitalized Garne.t attack. A 69 yard drive sustained by senior Mike Deshler ahd so ph Ba,rry Penal drove deep into Rochester territory before stalling out. The stalwart Union defense held once again and sophomore l.eonard Lee returned the punt 20 yards to their 41 yard line. On second down, Joe Urschel hit wide receiver Lou Miller with a 40 yard touchdown strike. The P.A.T. was blocked. X -Country Splits Union's Defense sticks Rochester So.ccer Undefeate.d by LEE RIMSI(Y and JOHN BUSTERUD M idway through the ·season, the Garnet varsity soccer team is the proud possessor of an impressive (at least at first glance) 5.() record. By defeating Hamilton and Hobart this past week, Union boasts three victories over New York teams and as a result could very well find themselves ranked as one of the state's top ten soccer squads. Although Hamilton and Antin, Don Ward, and Miles Hirson, and the team's first shutout effort turned in by Chris H uban, Union could very well have left their unbeaten streak in Clinton. The story was much the same on Saturday against Hobart. Although Union was clearly the superior team, a gutsy Hobart squad gave them a real run for their money. Late in the first ltalf, Hobart opened the scoring on a lluke toe-kick that squirted past an appalled John Busterud, who was starting his first game in the Union goat In the second half the Garnet bounced back as they have had to do all too many times this season. Craig Jeffries gathered in a loose ball in front of the Hobart goalmouth and drove it into the back of the net. Then, ll~ter on in the game, ·oeorge Garivaltis drove baseline, beat Union had one more chance with 4:40 remaining in the game. This last ditch effort originating at their own 20 yard line ended when a Urshel to Miller pass completion closed with a fumble. Union is now 1-2 going into Saturday's homecoming clash with R. P.l. Star offensive back Ron Westbrook is sidelined with a shoulder separation and is doubtful for Saturday's contest. The slack will have to be talcen up by the fleet Leonard Lee who gained 61 ya:rds on Saturday and an unsung defense which has given up only rour touchdowns so far this season. You have a seat reserved for 1:30 Saturday. Be there! J<=·= two defenders, and rifled a bullet into the far corner of the goal to put Union on top to stay. The Garnet start the second half of their season with an untainted record but have hardly shown the quality of play to warrant it. They hook horns with an improving RPJ squad this coming Saturday at home, a.nd will meet Colgate, Middlebury, Albany State, a,nd Trfnity to close out the tougher half of their schedule. Hobart were two of the weakest tea.rns that Union will face all year, the Garnet just barely squeaked by with two one-goal decisions. Against Hamilton, Union registered an early tally and managed to shutout their poorly skilled but pesky opponents the rest of the way. John Denio increased his goal production to four in as many games on an assist from long- hailing Olaf Neilson. Hindered by a hard Hamilton field that ma.de Union's ball control S\yle extremely difficult to use, the Garnet's play was alarmingly dis()riented. If not for the solid performance by halfbacks Rich Earl and Doug Moran, the spirited front line play of Parker UNION October 12 October 21 October 23 October 28 November 2 FIELD HOCKEY SCHEDULE Saturday Monday Wednesday Monday Saturday Russell Sage Cobleskill Skidtnore Middlebury RPI 4PM 4PM 4:30 4:15 lOAM Away Away Home Away Away by ALISON SLOAT Bouncing back from a meeting with the polished Hamilton harriers Union's own cross country corps traveled to Hartford ort Saturday to collect a win from Trinity. Running the Clinton course against the Continentats, sophomore Stan Wiskoski corssed the line in fourth place with a 26:35 clocking. ln the following meet a similar 26:03 meant a win for \Wisconsin.\ Of the three Hamilton runners bettering Wiskoski's time, two were course record breakers. Freshman Ray Wandeltnaier shows promise as a solid Garnet threat over the courses as he was second man for Union in both outings with times 27:20 and 26;23. Another freshman, Bob Moffatt, adds to the ranks of talented underclass harriers, as· shown When he finished third man for Union versus Ha£t1ilton. Junior captain Steve Jones, finding it difficult to recover from · a bout with mono, optioned out .:._-- . of the Clinton encounter but looked strong versus Trinity last week with a 26:30 for a Garnet fourth. Hill Galarneau, a famili&r face to UCol running advocate~ returned this fall to compete for the Dutchmen and turned in 27:49 and 26:41 times, the latter a fifth against Trinity. Although there are gaps from last yeaps squad to be filled, and runners like Mark Min \lei, Crawford Cutts, Scott Kalina, and Brad Fulten will be missed, Coach Ted Bic.k has no reservations al>out this years .crew. The yeung team will undoubtedly benefit from this years e~peri~nct;:s and the depth il boasts. Returning are senior John Dolan, juniors Jim Boyer, Pat~l Spence, a·nd John Halle.nbed<, while new are frosh John Farrell and • Bob Lien; From th1s ··building year\ Coach Bic:k should realke a solid and well (tra)versed stock of runners. As part of the H omecomillg festivities the Dutchmen wiJI battle the Engineers of RPJ, at ll a.m. ~·.·i..:; : . ' ~ \ . George Garivaltis stars at Hobqrt A ' Hal ,be I Rat O'B bet ar ca of m' ba St c PI c. oj ilj m te, th re st; bt e~ 01 te b~ hl PI bl til Vl ta sc w sc kl Cl te Q1 jc hi Ui ki w j~ 11 dt L j~ /( p a1

;,....,,.,, -.~·;; :~·-,f, A ·-' --- ~. ' A leet!U'e :entitled \Carpegie . · .Hall; Mchitectural Gem'' will , be givell Saturday ni~tht :in the . . Rath~kelhir by Walter A; _ ' O'RQ~kbergstein. No one will ' ,.. be'lteld responsible. Boast n:o t 0 · - to:monow, fo;r · th:ou kno:west not wh·at a day may bring forth.\ -·Anon Steering Committee Meeting, Mqn. night in Hiclf;.otk House Lounge, at 7:00. Vol, 104, No. 4 B . . ';···· ' . ecom1ng aware byJUDYDEIN This is the first of a seties of artiCles concerning .fhe ·role of career coQn!Peling -an€J the place of a 1:-iber:a:l Ar.ts Cc;dlege in the · modem world\ Thjs article is base(! on an interview with Susanna Millel:', :Director of Career Counsei:i~g and Place~ent at Union Coilege. \Until and unless Union College, and all o.ther institutions of higher _learning,. can accept lis its objective the establishment of an educational process that will teach students an awareness of themselves in relat~onship to the rest of the world; that will help students to create a sefFimage ha!{ed not on illusion, but on an experience combining· dreams and reality; that will not only teach how life would or should be but also how it i!f; that will help to guide talented, eager people not away from the world, hut right 'into it;· that will teach them that each of us will have a · vocation ·(when did that word take on such an ugly flavor?) som?_day, a niche, a place where we'll make a contribution and something that we will do to keep this world going,· until we create engineers who make technical decisions with an awareness of and a consideration for humanity and the earth, and humanists with an ability to understand techn.icality and know-how in order to use it;' then we have failed. And the college is Justifying its existence with ·lies. We are a FRAUD. And some days l feel like a Funeral Director or a General who has just senTher very finest soldiers to their massacre.\ (Excerpt from proposal submitt~d to the Budget- and Priorities Comm.ittee by ( 1173-1669) lNA5 PRE$1DEI-I'f OF U~ION COLLEGE. Susa1ma MUler.) · Accot(iling to Ms. Miller, the beauty of a Liberal Arts educatien is that it exposes students to many .different disCiplines. An added attraction of ;Union College is tMt it does not limit its subjects ..io .. those found in tlte Social Science and Humanities buildings, but also has extensive science and Engineering ()epartments. A problem with Uni!>11 College is, however, that it does not turn out students who are truly \well rounded,. but they are often rather limited in theit .studies. Artd Union College has not yet fully understood the very real need for early and extensive career planning a11d dir~ction. Years ago onty the wealthy elite went to a L.iberal Arts College, and these stJ.Idents knew that they would be employed because · th,ey had the n.eces.sary conne,cti·ons. Now, as competition increases, students graduating from a Liberal Arts C0Hege must . have something special to sell to their employers, a.1d <hat should be an awareness of themselves and the world around them. More than just Placemeat Ms. Miller objects to her office being consideted merely a \Placement\ office ~ a place where those who have decided not to go on to graduate school; for whatever reasons, come to find a job. The Placement office should not be a \repair shop\ a quick fix for those who have wandered about aimlessly fot four years and suddenly fin~ themselves in deSperate need of work. Instead, Susanna should be in charge_ of a .. career Offering · Continued on pag~ 3 · .• 'A POU IN IJJI-·IICH POLICE FOUND IMPRINTED 'THE UCENSE NUMBER OF. THE CAR 'hiAT HIT IT St. Mat<qS Ont. SCHENECTADY. N~Y., R>R. 62. YEARS AND ~R~NALLY TRI\INED . 90 OTHER COlLEGE PRESIDENTS •vtrHE MEYER GRAPUAlEP,_COUEGE HF Art~Nf)lf[) BROWN UNtVERSITYPORONlY II_ FEW ltf()NJ\HS AND HIS PEf.iRii£ WAS AN H@OIW<YOIJ£ 8ESTOWet;ONH!IHI.A1ERINLIF£ ~MOSQUE oF OMHOL lndta WAS BUILT BY PRINCESS AISHt>. BlBI ME:Af\IS OF OCCUPYING HER TIME fOR 4 YEARS WHILE SHE WIIITEfJ . t=olC TIARI!It. R)RHER Fl./tiJR£ HUSBANO 711 8ECOtriE SEM?.ING- THE OUTLINE OF A GOOSE' OLD ENOIJGH 7b IMRRY HER Ow~ed l:lv W.H.SRITT. Eureka.tahf. (-1Ei59~l&~:3) Union College achieves recognition from Ripley, in a manner which should be a shot in the arm to all of us tottertmz on the bt•ink. 35 cents Rink Plans Finalized ............. ,. ..... ~~- •'• ~:·-·-- ~- -- ........ ---· ... . . ·- ... ··~·-\\- '\ .. · ·--·~-·-~-\~·-· .·. ·-w~---~·-~-~·:.~--~.:_ .... · · .. - ~-~- ::·::-···::·:-·-:-_: .11iitilJru:.:: '\\ · \\ ·' · ...... ,~~------' .,.,.. . . -~ .. ·-· \'\\\' -~··-_ .. ...,.,.--......,..,,-~-· .... ~~ .. ..,:.......... h.,...__. • .,,.~ .. ,\!\f<v> ··~ ~-.;!' • . . .;t, . -\'~~:.:.. . ... ~v!0'\'~. _.' ..-.»; • \\\' - 1~. ... ,.,. \~· , ........ ~~-\\'.l.!~' .... JJ:~ .. ~-~·~· 4 Exxon Grant Kershner Speaks to Students Special to C oncordiensis L~st year . Union College received a $71,000 grant from Exxon whose purpose is to fund the development of a computer program that will produce a financial simulation of Union College. The development of the system is under the supervision of ProVost Enteman with the assistance of Dean Wylen and Ms. Nancy Smith. , Coll_eges are under increasing fmanCJal stress and there is a great need to have the ability to map the future more clearly. The computer program that is Stt1det1t The Dean of Students today announced the launching of a program to deal with problems of stu~ent morale and the quality of student life. The keynote of the program is administratiye initiative. The problems of student morale were broken down into specific tasks over one hundred -- for each of which responsibility was assigned to a pa rti·c uJar administrator. A timetable for accomplishment of these tasks was also included in the memo sent to a 11 faculty an d administrative personnel. In January, an eva.\uation of the progress made and difficulties cncounter~d will be performed so that tasks can be redefined or solutions adapted as the situation might require. The program Is embodied In a memo listing 25 areas of concern relative to student morale. The memo grew Otit of a study done last year by Mark Smith, J~lY Shupe, and Dean Wylcn. This study identified those factors that led to problems of student morale. From those factors were designed the tasks necessary to ('~ntinued on Page 8 .. presently being developed .. will take a given set of conditions and delineate the fl1ture consequences that may arise from them. What would occur if the maintenance staff were halved or if Housing were to abolish co-ed dorms? The Provost gave an elCample of how another school used a similiar program. The hypothesis was that the school would admit twice as · many prospective Pre-meds. The computer found that ihe school would h~ve to double the number of education comses given. The reason was that many pre-meds took education coUrses as a buffer against rejection from ·medical . schools. The program is extremely large. The GE415, (the schools present computer) cannot handle a program. of this.size. The Burrows 85700. which has approximately three t1mes the operating capacity Continue!~ on page 5 by CHRIS O'CONNOR Plans for Union's multi- purpose Ice Facility are now in the final stages, according to Thomas Kershner, Chairman of the Athletic Committee. Kershner, along with Athletic Dir.ector Bruce Allison, was the guest of student trustees Geoff Taylor and Bruce Sostek at a meeting designed to inform students. about the ice facility. Kershner stated that the Committee had been concerned over the building program for athletics; especially over the need for a new gym. It was in search of funding for new gym facilities that H. Lawrence Achilles, a former faculty member, offered to denate funds for a multi\purpose building, housing curling, hockey, C~ntinu~d on page 3 Political Survey The 1974 Union College Election survey has begun once &gain under \t!he supervision of l'olitical Science Professor Fred Hartwig. The survey will seek to gain an understanding of political opinions held by the people of Schenectady. The survey is also a part of a continuing compilation of data that has been gathered in ~ preconceptions about people\ Professor Hartwig stated. People who one thinks are so far to the right they would make William Buckley look like Gore Vidal ·turn out in fact to be Gore Vidal. Within the next week the survey will be completed and as has been done in previous years 1:. V. newsmen wlH come to campus to find out the results of who will win election '74. previous years. l )r<)rC· ss r H t . II '•'• .... ~ ..... ·~· ••• ••• •• • . 1 1 , 0 a:r·Wtg as we as ·~· '•~·• '•'•'• 'o••• •.!r•. ••·~-··i! ·····~··•I....··~ r;~..•. ~-~ •••••• •••••• -·==·~ •'•':t ••••• ···~· ... \!!~····=· I heron. Russe-ll and Fred lJ rna ne '• '•:•:•. 'o;•:•. ··:·:•. ··:·:· • ••• :.:o::::.:·~::.:·.~:·. '•!•!·.'·: are conducting this year's survey. Umane and Russell are seniors who are Using certain information l11om the survey for their senior lheses. The footwork for this survey is co rid ucted oy the 12 ·stud.cnts in Professor Hartwig's . Votmg Hehavior class. Each student has to interview 16 people (X men, X women) in various ~ections of Schenectady. Many students find the survey work a burden at the start hut soon find it a different and interesting experience. \It breaks down many students This Thursday night, October 24, a dialogue on the New York Senatorial campaign will be held in SS016. Members of the Union community, both faculfy and students, will be presenting the positions for and against both ~acob Javits, the Republican meum bent, and Ramsey Clark, the Democratic challenger. All members of the campus communily are invited to participate. The forum will begin at 7:30 p.m.

t I I · i I 'I . : I ' \ i I, r ! : : Pagel CONCORDIENS!S, Wednesday, Oct. 23, 1974 ~~·. <ftmtrnr~ ,, ·~ ~ .... 'I-· . Editors-in-chief ......... ~.: ................. Chris O'Connor Rob Mondschein Culture Editor ..................................... Peter Sobol Features Edit(:>r .... , .............................. Jon Scheer . Sports Editors .............................. Kevin Crawford Bill Underhill Photo Editors .............. , .................... Bob iohnsort Ellen Radack Danny ·McManamon Graphic Arts Editor .......................... Bob Johnson Managing _Editor .......................... Doug Carpenter Contributing Editors ............................. Judy Dein Fred Weinstein Historical Editor. ............................... , ..... Bill Talis Business Manager .............................. Jeanifer Port National Advertising .: ........................ Steve Kelley Subscriptions Editor .............................. Lisa Tietz Art Staff Marianna Petrik .. ~ ............................... . Jill Dannenberg Staff: Audrey- Rothchild, Janet Chapman, Lee Schwartz, Doug Carpenter, Phyllis Edelman, Rick Ford, BiH Plaus, Sam Hughes . CONCORDIENSIS is published every Wednesday by the . student body of Union College, Old Gym Hall, Schenectady, N.Y. ' Publications Office: The Jewisb World Publications, 771 State St., Schenectady, N.Y. 12307 (346-2356). Entered in the Schenectady Post Office as Second Cl~ss Matter. Subscription Rate 35 cents pe~ copy. $8.0() a year delivered anywhere in the United _States. • dogs, beware The dogs on this campus are on trial, a point that must be driven home to each dog owner on this campus. The College Senate narrowly passed the measure allowing dog owners this last chance to prove that they can take proper care of their pets. So far the Dog Court has received no \formal\ complaints against any dog. But there are many dogs that have not as yet b~en , rygjstered with security. Further there have been incidents of dogs dirtying up dorms around campus .. These are unfortunate events because the vast majority of dog owners take care of their pets. Dogs. give this campus a friendlier and warmer atmosphere as well as being close companions to many students on campus. We ask all dog owners to act responsibly and realize that this is their last chance to· prove that Union and dogs can live together. morale booster The College began this week a program designed to bolster student morale and improve the quality of student life. Concordiensis applauds this plan for its scope and attention to detail. Embodied in the 25 page listing of tasks is virtually every problem that has been yet discovered relevant to student life. Yet, the program as it now stands is missing the most important factor in student life or. morale: students. This is not to say that students have been excluded. In fact, student participation will be solicited. In setting up the program in this manner, the administration has,. in effect, called the students' bluff. Positions will soon be opening on task forces tackling a number of problems. Now, it's up to you. ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~ Political Forum will sponsor a slide show on the B-1 Bomber/Peace Conversion Campaign at its meeting at 4:30 p.m. on Thursday, October24th, in S.S. 115. The slides are being presented by members of the Peace Center in Schenectady and will be followed by further discussion and literature. All are welcome. d~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~ - you said_ it so.cial tha:nks Editors, Concordiensis: information in the nea( future . Many thanks for your interest and concern. ·Cordially, To everyone who missed Saturday's festivities to· donate their time and muscles to the concert effort, the Union College Social Committee would like to extend a special thank you to each of you for your patient help. In addition, a· special than~s to Security and Dick Mitis of M aintenanc.e, whose hectic Saturday was made worse in search of additiona.I electronic power so necessary for the m~mntainous stage show! Thomas N. 8onner President sig chi ··deniet:t Editors, Concordiensis, and Residents of North CoJiege: We realize, as you all must by now, that the art of streaking is now a thing of the past; at this time unfashionable being looked down. upop. as being trite and unexciting a·s it was in the Spring of last school year. We fee.! that last year's streaking was i;n good f'un and taste hut disavow any connection with last Tuesday's exhibition with which our name would obviously pe connected because of the streaker's chant·ings and ravings. We do not condemn this activity hut would only like to affirm that the only place tha·t anyone from Sigma Chi can be seen stteaking is in the 7 3-74 Union Book. Sincerely, The Brothers of Sigma Chi Fraternity ro all the ushers and those in a·ttendance Saturday evening; from Bruce Springsteen and Goebel and Lang: \Whal a great bunch of people, we luv ya'.\ Linebacker Ba~cked Chris Fink '75 {:hairman UCSC light agre·e:ment Editors, Concordiensis: I read with interest and concern your editorial, \Turn the Lights On,\ I share you concern about this problem which I had heard aired at last May's town meeting in the alumni gymnasium. I have already asked for a report on the status of the lighting project and hope to have some definite prof studies drifts Assistant Prof. Herman B. Zimmerman of the Union College department of civil engineering is a member of an international team of scientists aboard the oceanographic research vessel D/V Glomar Challenger. This team is now conducting a study of the drifting African and South American continental masses. Other scientists aboard the vessel are from ·Russia, Switzerland, and the U.S.A. The Glomar Challenger is operated by the Scripps lnst itute of Oceanography at the University of California, San Diego. The ship's scienti(ic crew is engaged in a deep-sea drilling project investigating ''tectonic conditions associated with the formation of the South Atlantic ocean.\ As sedimentologist ·on the voyage, Prof. Zimmerman will be particularly concerned with the patterns of sediment distribution on the ocean Ooor and the ancient changes in currents that those patterns may suggest. It is hoped that the study of sediments and the tectonic history of the ocean floor - that is, the history of changes in the earth's crust - will provide clues about the drifting apart of South America and Africa. lhe voyage began in Amsterdam, the Netherlands, and wifl end Dec. 16 in Cape Town, South Africa. Prof. Zimmerman, who joined the lJ nion faculty in 1970, is a grad.uate of C.C.N.Y. with a master's degree from the University of Massachusetts. He took his doctorate at the University of Rhode Island in 1971. He resides at 2020 f1oovcr Rd., Niskayuna. by JONATHON SCHEER The Steering Committee, by a unanimous vote, approved the funding of Linebacker; the Union CQllege evaluation, for the 1974~ 75 year. The Steering Committee, in voting upon Linebacker gave it an endo'rsement to continue to function fully budgeted this year. · grade distr~bution; it i:n9I~des an evaluation o{ Profe-s.so.r performance but many faculty members have argued that it is not a helpful guide in evaluating a professor's work in the classro()m. l\he~y maintain that many students judge a faculty member by 'how good a showman he or she is ·in class. l'hose departments which The decision was marked by confusion as to the nature of the Tax Committee's recommendation to the Steering Committee. No members of the Tax Committee were present for the meeting, and the Steering Committee's. decision was made . after considering an oral recommedation by Nick Coward, chairman of the Tax Committee, to President Broomes, stating that funds should be witheld from linebacker. A member of the Tax Committee has told Concordiensis that the committee, which was unprepared to give a written recommendation to the Steering Committee for the meeting, (even though armed with ample foreknowledge as to the date and time of the scheduled meeting). intends to send its full selection of alternatives, including a budgetary cutback which was not brought out at the meeting. The purported cutback would save $250 to $600, and the Linebacker would be available at the library, rather than being · distributed throughout the campus. Although many believe that Linebacker is a valuable service to faculty as well as students, a large segment of the community maintains that the Linebacker, with its accompanying budget of nearly $2,000, is not a helpful guide to the selection of courses and evaluation of professors. Upon examination of the Linebacker, one can see p,roblems inherent in the questionnaire as it is now distributed, and in the student furiding of such a publication. Since it is funded by students, their considerations are necessarily foremost as far as the depth and scope of the evaluation are concerned. But, it is not only used by students. ln its present form, Linebacker emphasizes have deemed Linebacker an ineffective guide have either discontinued the use of a student questionnaire or have substituted what they believe to be a more effective one. Professors also question the validity of Linebacker as an aid to those effecting tenure and salary decisions, citing that it not only unfairly represents a faculty member's worth to the community, but that it is also used randomly, and inconsistently. A spokesman familiar with faculty tenure and salary committee affairs has stated that .. as far as faculty tenure and salary considerations are concerned, if information revealed in the Linebacker corresponds to the opini-ons of (Dean) Lichterman and <r· rovost) Enteman, its a usefu guide:· Othetwise, they throw it out.\ Some alternatives have been proposed such as the adoption of the questionnaire used by the University of Illinois. This evaluation form, which reveals the reliability of student r,es ponses, (something the· Linebacker does not d.o) would be of a much greater use to faculty and administration members as well as to students. However. as long as Linebacker is funded by students, their needs should be the foremost consideration in the publication of such an evaluation. Chairman of Linebacker, lester Feintuck, in petitioning over 250 · signatures in support of Linebacker in its present form indicated considerable support for the questionnaire throughout the student community. In light of such sentiment, the decision of the Steering committee, is to be commended and would hope that l.lnehacker will continue to aid students in the selection of courses and evaluation of professors. schick .·promoted Dr. Kenneth L. Schick, chairman of the department of physics at Union College, has been promoted to the rank of full professor of physics. The act~on was taken at the October meetmg of Union's Trustees, and is effective it.nmed iately. • A member of the Union faculty since 1959, Dr. Schlick is a graduate of Columbia with a doctorate from Rutgers. In 1965-66 he did res~arch in fluctuation phenomena in biological membranes at the University of leiden School of Medidrie at Leiden, the Netherlands, C<'>ntinuing his studies the following year on a National Science Fouridationf NATO fellowship, also at Leiden. ·::i. In 1972~73 he returned.as a visiting researcll professor. He is currently serving .a two-yeal' term as chairman of the 300-mel\lher New York· State. Section of the American Association of Physics Teachers.

- A1>1U-riC:. -FaC.WS -.! v . I I .... Continued _from Page l ; Center,\ an office where the • t:tir-t I. H \' .; · questions asked should be \Who are you and What are your interests\ and not merely \What do you want to be.'' The center should be a self-awareness center - helping students . determine where their interests lie. Once Susanna knows a person's interests or hobbies she can help come up with a suitable job. At present, however, too many students are unaware of their own abilities and special talents, and their work experiences amount to very little, sc,hool for whatever reasons. This is a definite beginning to help make the Placement Office the ,local ,point for all of a student's W-<lrk and learning experiences !ruts ide of the academic and social realms of college. Grant-in-aid j~bs as well as summer and part- time employment should· be coordinated through a central ,lffice. Most importantly students must realize the need to ma-ke career awareness human awareness. The questions is not which is more practical, a Liberal Arts educations or vocational training. Rather, the two should be combined, and together should create a human being aware of himself, his interests and his world. Ice Facility Continued from Page l and indoor tennis. The facility will net be round ·as pre vi ou sJy reported in CoJteordiensis, but 32 sided. There will be three levels, with the c11rling sheets in the basement, the hockey /tennis surface on the main floor, and seating on the 3rd level. The seating .capacity of the ~uil<ling will be 2,500, not includingwhat seats might be set tip on the floor. The ice will be rented to !<)cal users in order to raise the operating revenue for the building. However, .Kershner .. ~ .. -··· / I· ·l stated the facility will be geared not to maximizing revenue, but to maximizing campus use. AI!ison stressed that in visi~ing other campuses, the ice facility is one of the leading social centers. He hinted that Union's ice facility, located between the Field House and Delta Phi, might bridge the social gap between the Lenox Road area and the. rest of the c·tmpus. -Fit.al contractual details are being worked out now, but the building co11ld begin operating,. if all .goes well, in October, .f 975! ·~..:·J,. . . ) To run a successful Career Counseling Center, the facilities & personnel must be available to work with students and ceordinate summer and part time employment with the student's interests. Beginning next September, Union College will be a part of the \College Venture Program\. For $2,500 Union has access to a full time coordinator who helps arrange employment for students who want to take some time off from \w~ RM. ·. ' .:==---::: . .:;~~..::~r . \00\G)-~ I·~~ _, \ . I : .. J ·'G Stop Fooling Yourselves. Contrary to popular belief, the c:hances are that the job a student o-btains directly after graduation will not be his permanent job. l :l)stead, it will most likely serve as a stepping stone, a time to make contacts for future employment and help the student determine what exact field he or she is interested in. Consequently, the first job may not be directly related to the student's field of study in college. The need for a diverse education ]')ecomes even more apparent when one realizes that their job may not be limited only to their majpr. Steering \Career Counseling and Placement, ie: a process to help students to become people who like themselves, who are aware of themselves in relationship with other people; and who are aware and responsible for the impact they have on other people, and who are able to a make a . contribution, this process does not just happen by magic. It is a process and in my opinion is the very central core of the educational process. lt has too /eng been left out of the educational process of this institution and others like it.\ (\~xcerpt from Ms. Miller's proposal). Committee fiil them with students seriously interested in the ·issue, and preferably of diverse Birth Control in Schenectady The Steering· Committee has recently appointed an Ad Hoc (:ommittee to evaluate and subsequently draw up a constitution for Student (;overnment at Union College. It was voted that 2 Steering · Committee members and 5 interested students at large make up 'the · committee. Debbie Glasser (Representative of the Class of .75) is chairing the committee and is presently joined by Class of '75 Representative John Dolan and 2 freshmen previously expressing interest. There are 3 positions still open and ·the committee wishes to views. Applications are being accepted in the Steering Committee mailbox in the Student Activities Office until Wed., Oct. 30. Applicants are requested to submit their name, ye~:~r of graduation, address, telephone number and a short statement of their reason for wanting to work on this committee. Decisions will he made by Nov. 3 when the Committee will be conducting an Open Forum for the college community at 7:30 p.m. in Strauss Lounge. by JANET RABER To learn of the services the Schenectady area> offers not only Union College students, but to an seeking information about 'birth control, planned parenthood, abortions, educational training, or assistance with emotional stress; I travelled the road to discover exactly what services were. offered and what obtaining such services entailed. Beginning a.t the college in-firmary, I spoke with a nurse C()nfidentially pretending to be of need for birth control. She kindly iltf<Jrrned me that they dispense no controls :tnd offer only gynecologic&. Jervicb. She r.eferred me to Planned Parenthood on 414 Union Street. So, skip the infirmary and go directly to Planned Parenthood. At Planned Parenthood I spoke with Mrs. Dietz, the assistant director, who informed me of the many services offered. Pia nned Parenthood is not only located in S.chenectady but Hamilton, Schoharie, and Fulton counties have similar services. Planned Parenthood began in Schenectady -itt 1935 and has grown to a staff. o.f 79 which includes doctors, nurses. professional counselors and a field service director. They illso have volunteer nurse aids, counselors; assistants and board (\f din:ctors. ·Doctors receive a nominal fee. All services and contraceptives are on a sliding fee scale according to the patient's ability to pay. Since my concern was with the process of obtaining birth .control, I questioned Mrs. Dietz on what this entailed. An appointment must be se;hedule1 and there is approximijtely a tyo week wait. They offer eigh~ clinics by appointment only w.ith twenty patients to a clinic of which si.x are new patients. During an appointment one would have an interview and complete forms of past medical history. All services rendered are confidential. Next one would attend educational services which include films. one of which deals with birth control ·methods, beaks and pamphlets, and the c<mnselling on the choice of birth control methods. A complete gynecological t.:: x a m in at i.o n w o u•l d be administeted which includes a physical, nematocrit. pap smear. venereal disease testing. pelvic examination, and urihahalysis. lhen patient and doctor would discuss the best birth control method and she would be sent hack to cDunselors to discus-s the use of this method. All this would pccur on the day of the appointment. Patients return for regular gynecological cxctininations. Besides offering birth contro 1, Pia:nned Parenthood offers many other services. They treat minor vaginal infections, refer patients to doctors and clinics that treat infertility, they explain sterilization procedures to both men and women and ·refer patients to doctors who can perform the operations. If a patient has a positive pregnancy test they will discuss the options available such as prenatal care, adoption, and abortion and referrals would be made. If a V D test were positive a patient would he referred to the free clinic at City Hall open Monday and Thursday 5:30 to 7:30. I discovered Planned Parenthood to have a very friendly atmosphere where anyone who needs guidance and medical services is welcome. My last stop was the Jay Street Center which is located at 160jay Street. The Jay Street Center just opened on Wednesday,. October 16, and is sponsored by Planned t>arenthood. Here 1 spoke with Mr. Emerson Rugh, the directot, and I learned that they deal with human sexuality and relationshops on an emotional hasis. They offer no medical facilities such as Planned Each year, ad hoc faculty committees are set up, to make recommendations regarding the continuation of tenure for other faculty members. These committees desire opinion from all members of the college community relevant to the tenurability of the particular faculty member Involved. Faculty being considered for tenure, and the chairmen of the corresponding ad hoc committee, are as follows: FACULTY MEMBER CHAIRMAN Prof. P. Al~~n ........................ Prof. P. LeClerc, Modern Lang. Prof. J. Ga]Jar ............................. Prof. F. Panlilio, Mech. Eng. Prof. T. Galant?WICZ ............... Prof. G. Ketchum, Mech. Eng. Prof. T. Loug?hn ..... :···· ...... Prof. R. Shanebrook, Mech, Eng. Prof. J. Ludw1g ................................. Prof. S. Ullman.English 'Prof. J. Maciariello ...................... Prof. J. Finkle stein' History Prof. D. Stineback ............................ Prof. E. Hansen: History Prof. A. Warde ...................................... Prof. S. Berk, History l~arenthood. Free Information and counseling are offered and they welcome anyone who just needs a friendly face to talk to. I h{:y are open Monday thru Friday from 10:00 a.m. to 6:00 ~.m., also Tuesday and Thursday ,nights until 10:00 and Saturday 10:00 a.m. until 4:00 p.m. If you have any I.JUestions, just need someone to talk with or whatever, I recommend strongly to go to !'he Jay Street Center. Many people including myself think that centers of this type are very lm personalized and don't really have the time te discuss problems in detail. I. admit however that I was completely wrang. If you want to talk fur hours there is someone at The Jay Street Center who will care about you and listen. :\ow, what exactly is Union College pta nning? A rap session which should take place around ruesday. Oct. 29, is in planning. !'he Rap session on sexuality and contraception should be informative and a chance to just exchange views. Cornell, Kirkland, and Hamilton have similar successful programs at their schools. So, there are many options open around the Schenectady area to those seeking counselling, in format ion, medical services, or just a friendly face to talk to.

' .,1 Page4 CONCORDIENSIS, Wednesday, Oct. '13, 197-4 ' ' - . Schenectady· and Union: l80 Years· Together by BlLL TALIS inspiration while in Schen~c:tady was so largely supplied from beer kegs'!\' Th,omas Clute, mayor of Schenectady in t·894, listedi \the two great events .of Schenectady's history\ as the founding ofUJ nion and the massacre of the Old Dutch settlement in 1690 :by the French and Indians, President Dixon Ryan Fox would later comment that we can only \.Jiope there was no implicalioi1 of similarity in their effect.\ This is the third in. a series of articles ab.,ut the history and !lear- history of Union Coll~ge. Ume is the great destroye~. ?f ~ist?!Y; and we hope to fill the gaps with fact ~nd fantasy prov1dmg ms1ght about \the way we were;\ · The original location of 1J nion College in Schenectady was vigorously sought by the towns .of Hudson, Poughkeepsie, Kingston, Lansingbutgh, Waterford, Stillwater, and most strongly, Albany. The townspeeple of Schenectady, however, raised $35,000, no small sum in those days, to locate the· college in their city. Schenectady, said J·ohn Jay, in 'Writing George Clinton in 1779, .. was the only .proper place in the state\ for the capitol of the st;ite government of New York. It 'Would be only natural, therefore, to locate a prestigious institution of higher learning in the capitol city. Indeed, thriving industries on the Mohawk at Schenectady gave credibility to Jay's letter. · But Schenectady did not stand up to the expectations of our founding fathers, who were apparently still suffering from shellshock in the aftermat.h of the Revolutionary War. Emigrants from New England poured right past Schenectady and onto the flat farming plains of western New York, while Schenectady's population stood stiU for nearly half a century. The location of an institution is of primary importance for ·continued growth. Union College cannot boast a 1 record of continual growth, however, for Union plummeted from its pre-eminence of being the wealthiest institution in the country in 1885, to one struggling for survival following the Civil War. Union's post Civil War decline was marked by a comparable stagnation in Schenectady, and Nott Potter, continued construction of the Nott Memorial after the Civil War, but was impeached by the faculty and driven from office. l8VI'S Da~e's Mens Slaop 453.State St. DOUBLE FEATURE!!! THE FILM COMMITTEE PRESENTS MONKEY BUSINESS with the Marx Bros. and REEFER MADNESS Sat. at 7, 9:30, IZ Sun. at 7, 9 All Snows in SSO 16 hostilities between residents ofthe cbUege and the community grew. The June, 1875 issue of The College Spectator proclaimed, .. It is the Vefdict of nearly nine,tenths of our students that while our immediate- surroundings are renif;lrkably beautiful ... the city of Schenectady itself,· in spite of the wealth and cultur-e of its inhabitants, is the filthiest town in which they have had the misfortune to reside .. Either the people of Schenectad.y very much prefer dirt to a decent degree of deanl'iness, or they are afflicted with an amount of indolence that ought to bring the blush of shame to t:he face of even a typical lager- soaked Dutchman.\ A. Laurence Foy, Class of '69, wrote that the \Outbursts of disdain by Union students .aimed' at the Schenectadians were returned with equa'i gusto. A local clergyman, condemning the scandalous and immoral activities of Senators and Congressmen in the nation's capitol, declared that it was no· wonder to him •that Union College boasts of so many Congressmen, when their ' I /\ \;/ / ' ; J I' I j / ~ I/ •' r ' 1 • • I • I I •• t j.. During Union's darkesi days,, one solution advanced was th«Jt of relocating Unioil from Schenec.tady to a more advantageous environme~t. The idea of moving to Albany was one entertained with varying degrees of support by presidents of the college througho~t th~ 1'9.th century. Following t'he Civil War, EJiphalet Nott Potter rnost ardently advanced plans for such a move, and his effor.ts at . organiZing Union University in 1873 wer.e geared for this great exod'us. But Union continued to decline through the l870 1 s, and in l 882; Potter was charged by the college with \in.competency and untrustworthiness.\ After Potter's forced resignation, the new president Harrison Webster was struggling just to keep (:) nion alive and Potter's ambitiotisplans Post-Civil War students prote$t against construction. of.the Not( Memorial. the were abandoned. By 1894, when Andrew Van V ran ken Raymond had assumed Union's presidency, the worst of Union's troubles were over. and he could devote more time to the relGcation effort tha'n his predecess~rs. Humor <>f the move to Albany confirmed by Concordiensis on November 6, 1895, in which it was repoPted that John Thacher, Democratic candidate for mayor of Alba~y pt\omised to \unite our w h o I e · u n i v e rs i ·t y a t Albany.\ Concordy intervim¥ed Thacher: ''If the entire college were 'located here (in Albany), it would .. bring to .the city probably not less than 1000 students ... If ·the jour.nals' which have unanimously advocated the removal of Union Co1Iege will suggest same plan of a.ction, I will, should l become the chief . Continu~d on Page I 0 . J I, GAF PRINT EXPRESS CENTERS 'BRING YOU THE FINE ART OF FALL COLORING WITH SUPERB VALUES ON FOUR OF THE FINEST GRUMBACHER ARTIST MATERIAL's MONEY CAN BUY • I 1.//;;:JJ} .. ' /'\ t llj~:ll \' /,, / r OFFER EXPIRES NOVI:~BER 15, 197tJ GRUMBACHER PRE-TEST~·~ OIL COLORS & SETS r,NOW TWO GRUMBACHER HYPLAR ACRYLIC . COLORS & SETS GRUr~BACHER FINEST WATER COLORS & SETS l 0 CAT I 0 N St±±±±~n-.:I=+=±±±±±::J::±=-.t:tl_j::t::±::i::J:j::::t~ 1474 STATE STREET - SCHENECTADY, NEW YORK (518) 393-1328 1148 WESTERN AVENUE ALBANY • NEt; YORK (518) 489-4784

t d CONCQRDIENSIS, Wednesday~ Oct:23, 1974 Page5 ~Buying Gifts?~ ~j~~j T:h· .. -A··· . · __ ·t·· ·h\ . . . S·h· ' I 1 . - e . n y . _._In g -. -- op. 1 Christmas is rapidiy Overseas Ministries National .ap,proaching, birthdays are Council of Churches. SERR V unending, and gifts for friends takes th\: crafts that ave produced and oneself continue to arise. The at various relief and vocational ecmJOmy being what it is, and programs sponsored by church college stl!dents being what they organizations and those pr<:Jgrams are, both of these factors put sponsored by other. organizations yualifications on the purchase of like the Peace Corps that exist a gift.. But one knows froR1 around the World and funnel Whitman that a gift should be. these crafts into the wealthy given with thought and not be a countries of the world in order to . mere piece of commercialism. raise funds; Many times Y<;>ll also desire a gift The ladies at the YWCA set up that is different .from.l:lie norm. the ''Anything Shop\ Where can a Uniori College approximately a year ago in order student trapped in Schenectady to be an outlet for these crafts to find a gift that is non-commercial, help these people around the d'ifferent and at the same time world. inexpensive? The place to go is When first looking at the the \Anything Shop\ in the crowded glass cases that lobby of the YWCA on constitu•te the shop, one may not W&shington Street in the realize the far range of objects Stockade. present, One may not .see the The \Anything Shop\ has gifts cotton hand ke.rchiefs from that run along the lines of what Akhmin .• Egypt, the area in which cou'ld be found in a \Pier I weaving was said to be Imports'; sort of estaiblishrnent. discovered. The Agogo handbag The objects that .are sold come from the Phillipines, the dolls from an amalgamam of c.oun;tries: from all over the world from the Bangladesh, Bolivia, Botswana Straw dolls of Central and South (to do a few of the B's); Lebanon, America to the Zulu spirit doll Korea, Malawi, Peru, Haiti,. from Rhodesia. There are rugs Colombia, India, Phillipines, from Bolivia 'and American Morocco, Jordan, Egypt, Upper · 1\avajo rugs. There is a wide Volta, Kenya, Rhodesia, South range of jewelry from the hand Africa, Chili, Ecuador, Pakistan, carved mother of pearl necklaces Hong Kong, Okinawa, Greece, -and pms from the Mid-east, etcetera ad infinitum. South African beaded necklaces, The objects are obtained from to the silver jewelry from Mexico SERRV (Sales, Exchange for an<.! the Phillipines. There is also Refugee Rehabilitation sculpture -that comes from Vocations). This organization Thailand, Kenya, Colombia, serves the interdenominational I e~oto '(to name a few) made over.seas programs of Protestant from Teak, Mohogony, ebony Churches through the an<~ water buffal'o horn. There are Department of Church World .inlaid wood bo.x:es that come Services which is a division of the from Lebanon and Jordan, ot the batik from Upper Volta. To Thursday, October 24th from 4:30-6:30 at the Skeller It's a BEEF & BREW SPECIAL continue on would be pnintless,. the point is made that in this small shop lies a lot that can be discovered. Probably one of the nicer aspects of. the shop is the friendliness of the people who se.rve you. The volunteer rnanaget of the shop Mrs. Allen Ryysylainen and Mrs. Agnes Myers who was helping at the counter were excited about the project they were working on. The main thing they Were excited ~1bout is the help they were attempting to give to these needy people. Secondly, they were very interested and knowledgeable about all the objects in the shop. Finally they are extremely patient and would take every object out twice for you to look at before you decided. Now why would a person like you, a college student in modern inflationary America even think of entering this shop knowing the prices one usually sees i·n these irnport shops? The reason is that the objects in this non-profit shop are unbelievably cheap, Repeat: cheap! The prices range on almost all but one or two of the objects from .25 to $6.00. The quality and originality of many ofthe gifts are unhelieveable. Stop in, look arounr say heUo to the \Anvthing Shop.' Its open Monday through Thursday 10 a.m. to I .p .. m. ar.d on Friday from 1 p.m. to 4 p.m. Mrs. . Ryysy.lainen said she hoped the hours would be extended if enough Union students came by. It may be true t~at not everything can be judged on face value and that Schenectady may be a little more interesting than it first appears. The Office of Career Planning and Placement will sponsor a seminar entitled \What Happens In a Job Interview\ Tuesday, Octo bet . 29, in Hale House Lounge, Speaking at the seminar will be Robert Roth, Manager of Recruiting for New York Telephone, and AI Caine, Manager of Entry-Level Recruiting at General Elec.tric. Susanna Masters Miller, Director of Career Planning and Placement a.t Union will moderate the program; which will include real practice interviews conducted by Messrs. Roth and Caine. SHOP ON JAY STREET For Your Mind Body Soul THE OPEN DOOR BOOK SHOP THE COUNTRY KITCHEN THE OTHER SIDE OF.TODAY 135, 136, 137 Jay Street Open Tues.-Sats. A~ exhibition and sale of approximately 1,000 original prints from the famed Ferdinand Roten Galleries collection will be held on Monday, October 28, from 12 noon to 6 p.m. in the Arts Building. Works spanning six centuries will be featured in the show, which will include such masters as Rouault, Hogarth, Goya, Mtro, and Picasso, and many of today's artists; famous and not famous. In addition, there will be a collection of Western and Oriental manuscript pages, some dating to the 13th century. Prices .range from $10 to the thousands, but most prints; including those of the masters, are under.$100. $$~$$$$ EXXON $$$$$$$ fontinued from Page l of the 415 will handle this program when it is installed iri the Science Center early next year. Provost Enteman expressed concern that many mernbers of the Union community will be turned off by this \management information system\. He made dear that the system .is to be completely flexible, and that the system would be serving the school, not vice-versa. Union's administration Is seeking to plan further into th future in order to predict th financial and other repercussion of present actions. *Tour de Union * Amy Titus and Bruce Egleston stream across campus in. the Fourth Annual Tour De Union,. held during Homecoming last Sunday. Team 13 took an extra lap in the confusion, and lost to the team of Paul Fergusson, John DeStefano, Robert Stegemann and Olaf Neilsen. \4 oz. of Ilot Roast Beef - sliced to order - on a Fresh Hoagie Roll - with one bottle of Beer\ (your choice of Bud, Miller, Schlitz or Schmidtz) ===·=-======::=::···r---~-----------. The Freshman Ad Hoc fo< · >U< ~k >l~ ~ ' fo:r just $1.25 ,,.,_. · Tax included (A large milk substituted. for request.) \';\ ·. or the a large bottle soda may be of beer upon Luke's Supermarket Open 7 Days a Week 830 Eastern Ave. 34.6-9757 Calculators SR-50 $13.5 Other, Texas Instrument calcul~ors similar •·eductions. can 371-4893. ROOM FOR RENT Located over Peter Pause Restaurant, 535 Nott St. 3 bedrooms, living room, bath and kitchen. $15 per week (heat, water, electricity included). See Peter Pause Proprietors for Info. Committee will hold its first ~ meetin.g in Strauss. Lounge on ~ October 30, at 9:30 p.m. This committee shall consist of any freshmen who desire to ~ research the governments of ~ similar small sc~oois, gain first priority for freshmen to fill vacancies • of committee ~ ~ positions and pmvide · suggestions for rev1smg L.....-----------\\ · ved! l 'nion's governance system. W'ne and c. heese will bej 1..---- ....... --------t k >ik= , :: IU< >t

i i i I I I ': Cabaret! Culling increa~ing accumulations of credit and countless calls to continue carrying the incomparable cause of completely curvacious carousing to our commonly catatonically cancerous campus. And to prove that statement, here is a brief review of last week's landmark evening of food, drink and entertainment. Larry Rohrs arid Jane Maller opened both shows with soft bass and f1ute background music. In the first show Bob Haun and Harry Roberts took over with some excellent mainstage guitar picking. They were joined for a few songs by a woman whose name defies attempts to discover it. She performed three of her original 115 songs with a heautiful voice and .eloquent twelve-string guitar. Rich Strassman performed in the second show, ·playing piano as only he can. He was accompanied for one number by two friends on guitar and harmonic~. Next came the Radio Acrobats, performing and recording a radio play by Woody Allen, although some of the lines seemed to have been custom fit to the Union campus. The philosophy majors got a few more laughs than the E'E's, but there was humor for everyone. Helena Binder closed both shows and was the hit of the evening. Accompanied by the incomparable Howard Grossberg on piano, she sang some vintage · tunes with such a style that, out of the corner of one's eye, one could swear to seeing Bogey himself in one of the back booths. Her. tap dance in two of her numbers drove the crowd wild. Helena sang one modern song by Mr. Grossberg. On that particular tune comment will have to be reserved since this is a class paper. Nevertheless, the crowd loved it. The beer flowed free, the cider was superb, the cheese was not to be equaled, and the peanuts! Oh, the· peanuts! It is hard to believe that such a show could be surpassed, but ·next week's Cabaret will be earthshaking. Although the program is uncertain at this time, both of next weeks shows (beginning at 8:00 and 10:30) will have Professor LeClerc reading French poetry, a-nd Professor H .A. Wilson playing the harpsichord. So throw your worries to the winds and come! Helena Binder Checinsky Plays Chopin In his brief life span of 39 years, Frederic Chopin established himself as one of the great figures in musical history. To commemorate the !25th anniversa·ry of his death Polish pianist Pawel Checinski presented an all-Chopin recital in the Memorial Chapel on October 17. by D.W. MULCAHY audience. The final piece before the intermission was the Sona.ta m B Flat Minor, one of the great pieces of pia no music. Checinski gave a superb performance. especially of the third movement, the Marche lunebre. Chopin's mam contribution to the public ~lomain. i.t has probably bern hcurd hy everyone in some form Hr a not her. Starting very softly. Checinski built to a huge amount of sound, as the crescendo struck the car of the listener with ever increasing severity. · l·ollowing a brief rest. the earlier ones as well as the. storminess of the last three. , Pawel Checinski is a fine young pianist, and .it is unfortunate that more people were not there to :,ce him play. On Sunday,. November 3 at 7:30 p.m. in Strauss Lou\'ge t•here will be an open forum for a constitution for Union · · College Student Government. The Steering Committee has appointed an. ad hoc committee for Union's student l;Jody .to evaluate its form of student goverm;nent. They are looking for ~s much input as possible from the student body and have 3 spots. open on the committee. * * * * Saratoga Harness is going to have a \CoHege Night\ on Friday, November l. The rock ·and blues group, SKYE, is scheduled and grandstand admission tickets will be avaHable fo.r $1.25 (regularly $1.75). A c@liege driving championship is ' also s.cheduled. · * * * * Anyone interesfed in ditecting some sort of theater production: there will be a meeting Wednesaay, October 30 at 4:30p.m. in the Nott Mem0rial .to discuss what dire¢ti1rg ' at Union,involves and what opportunities are available. * * * * All students going for medical or dental school interviews: a ride board has been posted by the Biology Bulletin Board for your convenience in obtaining eith~r rides or riders. 'II< * * * ••Protein Synthesis in Neurons: Roles in Brain Function,\ a ·biology seminar, win be given on Wednesday, October 30 at 4:30 p~m. in SSOI.6 by Dr. David L. Wilson of the Department of Physiology and· Biophysics, University of Miami School of Medicine. . * * * * Seniors: If you can write down a few adjectives or. sentences that summarize your. thoughts and feelings during orientatio.n week of your freshman year, please type or print them and drop them off in the Union Book box in the Student Activities Office. Nothing verbose. (You don't even have to sign your name to your thoughts.) Please submit no later than Nov. 22. I!< * * * Seniors: Those of you who are submitting their own 312 x 5 black and white glossy for the senior .section ~ please get y.our pictures in by Dec. 2, 1974. Put your picture in a seilied envelope (with your name on the envelope) and put it into the Union Book box in the Student Activities Office. *' * * * All students interested in providing input for the restaurant-pub proposed fer the c;ollege center are urged to complete a shdrt questionnaire in the Student Activities Office by noon on Friday, October 25. This data will serve as t:he foundation for the design and theme of the operation. * * * * Any freshmen who would like to earn some money by being a projectionist for the college, please <;all Jay Pomerantz at 372-0172 ot 370-6404 or leave your name in Dean Wylen's office (Bailey 101). * * * * Organizational meeting for all those interested in French. Conversation on Friday the 18th at 3:00 p.m. in the Hale House Lounge. If interested but unable to attend, call Margot Oliver at 372-3993. * * * * The Art Department will have an exhibition and sale of original oriental art from I<lto 6 on Wednesday, November 6. *·* * * The Big Brothers and Sisters will be journeying to the Haunted House on Tues . ., October 29. If transportation is needed, the number to .call is 372-4987. * * * * The Students' International Meditation Society will sponsor a presentation on Transcendental Meditation. The program wiH include a lecture and film. Those interested in findinge out what meditation is all about should come to Strauss Lounge on Wednesday, October 30th at 8:00 p.m. * * * * The Idol Workshop will be held every Tuesday night at 7:00 in Strauss Lounge. All writers of poetry and fiction are invited to bring their work in for discussion by the group. * * * * The Idol Magazine wants submissions. As soon as we receive enough Worthwhile material We will publish an issue. Submit poetry and fiction to the Idol mailbox in ,the Student Activities Office. * * * * Co~tinued on page 7 Mr. Checinski, a 1969 graduate of the Music Academy in Warsaw, has won several international prizes, including a special award at the Xth Chopin I ntcrnational Competition. His concert here included examples of several of the formats in which Chopin wrote. The first selection played was the Polonaise- l-antaisie. Op. 61, followed by the Nocturne in B Major; Op. 62. No. I. These two pieces were both wei! played hy Checinski. and were followed by the demanding Scherzo in C Sharp Minor. This piece gave a good indication. of the pianist's skills, as he was able to deal very successfully with hath the more delicate aspects of the scherzo and the crashing chords at the close of the p1ece, a fact which was appreciated by the ( 'hccirtski returned to play the 12 I· tudes of Op. 25. The usual meaning <lf the term etude in musical composition is rh<it of a piece lor the musician to Work at. 111 genera.! for a specific technical purpose. Chopin's etudes are 'uperh technical. exercises. but they also possess great musical 1alue as well. Chcc.inski hrought out the musicality of the e-tudes last Thursday, handling the beauty and tend\!rness ofsome of Pawei.Checinsky in the Chapel , . bri fro ass Lo thr C'h fin an Jo (ic ini to1 \P M en the to• s H [ ( ( (

Cabaret! Culling increasing accumulations of credit and l.'ountless calls to continue l.'arrying the incomparable cause of completely curvacious l.'arousing to our commonly catatonically cancerous campus. And to prove that statement, here is a brief review of last week's landmark evening of food. drink and en tcrta i nme n t. Larry Rohrs and Jane Maller opened hnth shows with soft hass and !lute background music. In th~ fir~t 'ho\\ Hoh Haur1 and Harry R<Jix:rts took over with ~orne t.:xcellent mainstage guitar picking. I hey were joint:d tor a few ~ong~ hy a woman whose name t.kfic' at tem ph to J i~l.'over tt. She ~erforn1ed three of her onginal 115 songs with a heautiful voice and eloquent tv.ehe-string guitar. Rich Strassman performed in the ~econd snow, ·playing piano as onlv he can. He was accompanied tor -one num her hy two friends on guitar and harmonica. :\ext came the Radio Acrobats. performing and recording a radio play by Woody /\!len, although some of the line; seemed to have been custom fit to the Union campus. l he philc>sophy majors got a few more laughs than the EE's, hut there was hum<)r for everyone. Helena Binder closed both shows and was the hit of the evening. Accompanied by the incomparable Howard Grossberg on piano~ she sang some vintage tunes with such a style that, out The Radio Acrobats of the corner of one's eye, one could swear to seeing Bogey himself in one of the back booths. Her tap dance in two of her numbers drove the crowd wild. Helena sang one modern song by Mr. Ci rossherg. On that particular tune comment will have to be reserved since this is a class paper. ~evertheless. the crowd loved it. I he heer l1owed free. the L'ider v.as superb, the cheese was not to he eljualed. and the peanuts! Oh, the peanuts! It is hard to believe that such a show could be surpassed, but next week's Cabaret will be earthshaking. Although the program is uncertain at this time, both of nex.t weeks shows (beginning at 8:00 and 10:30) will have Professor LeClerc reading f· rench poetry, and Professor H.!\. Wilson playing the harpsichord. So throw your v.orries to the winds and come! Helena Binder Checinsky Plays Chopin In his brief life span of 39 vears, Frederic Chopin ~stablished himself as one of the l,!rcat figllrcs in musical history. lo commemorate the !25th anni\er~ary of his death Polish pian i~ t l':t we l C hec insk i prcsc ntcd an ali-t' hopm recital in the \1e nHmal (' ha pel on ( kto her I 7. \I r. Ch cci n'>k i. a 1%'1 !!rad ua te of 1 he M uo.,ic t\cadcrm rn by D.W. MULCAHY audience. The final piece hdore the Intermission was the Sonata m B ~-tat Minor. one ol the great p IeCCS 0 f pia no rn ll~ ic. ( hccinski gave a -;upcrh pnformancc. especially of the third movement. the Marc he lunehrc. ('hoptn's matn nn1tnhution to the puhltc domam. tl ha' pruhably heen ilL\<trd h\ L'VC~ !HlC Ill '>0111e fortn c>r :mother. Startin)! \cry o.,oftly. < hccm-.f... 1 hutlt to a hu!!e amount .l! ~ound. a\ tt1e cre'icendu ~truck tilL· ,·ar uf the listener \\ith eva ll1lTt'il~il1)! ~l'\t'rtl~. I tdlo\\ 111)! it hrtt:l 1 est. the earlier ones as well as the 'torminess of the last three. , l'awel Checinski is a fine young pianist. and it is unfortunate that more people were not there to ~cc him play. BLITHER On Sunday. November 3 at 7:30 p.m. in Strauss Lounge then: will be an open forum for a constitution for Union College Student Government. The Steering Committee has appointed an ad hoc committee for Union's student body to evaluate its form of student government. They are looking for as much input as possible from the student body and have 3 spots open on the committee. * * * * Saratoga Harness is going to have a \College Night\ on Friday. November I. The rock and blues group. SKY E. is scheduled and grandstand admission tickets will he available for $1.25 (regularly $1.75). A college driving championship is also scheduled. * * * * Anyone interesfed in directing some sort of theater production: there will be a meeting Wednesday, October 30 at 4:30p.m. in the Nott Memorial to discuss what directing at Union involves and what opportunities are available. * * * * All students going for medical or dental school interviews: a ride board has been posted by the Biology Bulletin Board for your convenience in obtaining eith~r rides or riders. * * * * \Protein Synthesis in Neurons: Roles in Brain Function,\ a biology seminar, will be given on Wednesday, October 30 at 4:30 p.m. in SSOI6 by Dr. David L. Wilson of the Department of Physiology and Biophysics, University of Miami School of Medicine. * * * * Seniors: If you can write down a few adjectives or sentences that summarize your thoughts and feelings during orientation week of your freshman year, please type or print them and drop them off in the Union Book box in the Student Activities Office. Nothing verbose. (You don't even have to sign your name to yo1:1r thoughts.) Please submit no later than Nov. 22. * * * * Seniors: Those of you who are submitting their own 3 V2 x 5 black and white glossy ior the senior section -- please get your pictures in by Dec. 2. 1974. Put your picture in a scaled envelope (with your name on the envelope) and put it into the Union Book box in the Student /\L'ti\itie~ Office. * * * * t\11 students interested In prm iding: input lor the restaurant-pub proposed lor the college center are urg~d to complete a short questionnaire in the Student Acll\ it res Office hy noon on Friday. Octo her 25. l h1s Ja ta \\ill sene as the foundation lor the de~tg:n and theme of the operation. * * * * Any lre~hmen v.ho would like to ~:arn >orne money hy being a projectionist for the college. please call Jay Pomerantt at 372-0172 or 370-6404 or leaH: your name in Dean Wylen\ office (Bailey 101). * * * * Organi.!ational meeting lor all those int~:rcsted in French Comersation on Friday the lHth at 3:00 p.m. in the Hale Hou~e Lounge. If intere:.ted but unable to attend. call Margot Oliver at 372-3993. * * * * ·1 he Art Department v.ill have an exhibition and sale l>f oJiginalnriental art from 10 to 6 on Wednesday, !\member 6. * * * * The Big Brothers and Sisters will be journeying to the Haunted House on Tues., October 29. If transportatron is needed. the numher to call is 372-4987. * * * * The Students' International Meditation Society will sponsor a presentation on Transcendental Meditation. The program will include a lecture and film. Those interested in finding out what meditation is all about should come to Strauss Lounge on Wednesday, October 30th at 8:00p.m. * * * * The Idol Workshop will be held every Tuesday night at 7:00 in Strauss Lounge. All writers of poetry and fiction are invited to bring their work in for discussion by the group. * * * * The Idol Magazine wants submissions. As soon as we receive enough worthwhile material we will publish an issue. Submit poetry and fiction to the Idol mailbox in the Student Activities Office. * * * * Continued on page 7 \\anav.. ha' v.nn o.,nl'fal tnternatto nal prllc,. incllrdtn!! a ~rectal avo.ard at the Xth Chopin lnternaltll>llal ( ·tHllpctttton fit-. nmcert IH.:re included c.xamplt''> nf ,c\era I o1 the format~ lTl ~ htch < lwpm ~,~,.rotc. I he ftrst 'leicl.'tl!lll played \\a' the Polomu-.c- 1 antaJo.,te. Op. hI. follov.cd h~ the '\octurn~: 111 B Major; Op. 62. \.o. I. I hc~c two p1eccs v.erc hot h \\ell played hy Checinski. and \\ere lol!lnwcd hy the demanding Scherzo tn ('Sharp Mmor. !his piece gave a good indication of the pianist\ skrlls, as he was able I o deal very successfully with hot h the more delicate aspects of the scherzo <-Ind the crashing chords at the cl<>se of the p1cce, a fact wl~ich was appreciated by the < hL'L'tmki relutncd ll• pia~· the 12 I ltHks ol Op. 2). I he ll'illal IllL\ill1lll)! of the term etude in lllll~tcal composition is that of a p u:ce I or I he musician 1 o work <It. tn !,!t:neral lor a specific technical purpose. ( \hopin\ etudes arc ~urcrb technical exercises. hut they also possess great musical \ :tlue as well. Checinski hrough I out 1 he musicality of the etudes last lhursday, handling the heauty and tend~rness of some <>f Pawel Checinsky in the Chapel i .· I I J . '! 1 ' ~ ; > j I ! i ' l I i { - brtc fro .1~~1 lo thr Clt lin; .Ill< I nt ll ( 1 IIlli t tlr \P \I i L'l11 the I o< S· H J) (' (. s

CONCORD!ENSIS 1 W<!dnesday, Oct. 23, 1974 Gapping the Bridge by JOHN DESROCHERS a:nd SLEEZE On October 8, twenty-two bridge players, ranging in ability from novice to semi~ompetent, assembled in Hale House Upper Lounge fer the first of this term's three S.ti.!:dent-Faculty Bridge Club meetings. When the dust finaHY cleared, Profs. Goodheart a Hd Bacon had ta:keh first pJace. Jordan Spivak and Howie (joodman tpok second while the inimitable Bozos sc:ra>ped up a tie for third with last yea-fs \'Partnership of the Year,\ .Pete Millman and Jim Mills. But enough o(i:his reporting! Below is the Bozo Bridge Blunder flilr today. South deils. E-W Vulnerable. The Hid ding: South I.S JH 4S · West pass pass all pass North 2H 3S East pass pass Opening lead: King of diamonds promotes West's nine as a wmner. l'here Was ·no way to avoid the loss of a heart, also, so So·uth went down .one. When it was aU over, North. who had cadmly watched his ·game go down the tkain, blurted out, \You Bozo! All yo1,1 had todo·wa.s throw your losing heart on the third diamond instead of tr1,1mpirtg and you would have made the contract!•\ Sure enough, after East wins with t.he diamond queen,. Sou.th wins any retu-rn, draws the· outstanding trumps, and makes his contrf;lct in fine form. In effect, 'all he had to do was tot ra.de ta:is heart loser for a giamond loser to avoid promoting West's fourth trump. We won't mention which one of us Bozos played this one. eecause Sleeze is easily embarrassed. At <WY rate, cotne by yourself or with a pa.rtner and p:lay some bridge (.lfl Tuesday night (October 29)at 7:45 in 'lla:t!'! House Upper Lounge. ... .._ . .,__ \\\\ · . p~qto by CintJiiliWolf~on Players rehearse freshman play. East S-2 North S·Q, 4, 3 H:~K, · 9, 8, 3, 2 D-8,. 7, 6, 2 C-A West The bidding is s~raig.htforward .• ·rhe diamond king ho'lds the first trick and continues with the ace, which is trumped in the South hand. South proceeds by leading_ a lew spade to dummy's queen, West'ducking. He then leads back a· spade to his jack, which West wins. West then leads a third djamond to East's jack. South, cursing the bad trump split, stomps on ·the diamond queen with his lO of trumps, which Freshman· Play Com,ing Soon 1-1-Q,. J, w D-Q, 10, 3 C-10, 8, 7, 5,. 3, 2 South S-A, 9, .7, 6 H-5, 4 D.A, 1<..9,5, 4 C\'9 6 S-K, J, 10, 8, 5 H-A, 7, 6 - An ad hoc committee has · been formed to evaluate · Professor David Stineback for promotion· and tenure at Union College. The committee invites all members of the Union community to · s.ubmit Written evaluations of Professor Stineback to - Erik Hansen of the History Department. D-J C-K, Q, J, 4 BLITHER Continued from Page 6 PYE meeting Thursday, Octob..::r 24, at 7:30 i\n Strauss Lounge. * * *· * The Computer Science Department is sponsorin~ a conte.st to name the new PDP& mini-computer. The wmner wtll receive \\a file kept on the person of the. winner's choice,. to he • handed over to the appropriate agencies when requested.\ Entries may be submitted to Ellen Radack, Box 5.85, or Prof. Williams, Steinmetz Hall. *- * * * - The inhabitants of McKean and Smith House, and those of the Lenox Rd. dorms invite the Union community to a 3- sided party on Friday night, Octo~er 25th_: I) 7:30, Hick~ck . House- informal poetry reading wtth Calvm Anderson. Wme and cheese served. 2) 8:3Q, Free movie at Edwards. Marx. Brother's \At the Circus;\ lee cream served. 3) 10:15, Free dance at the Gyin with Arkestra - \Jazz that makes you move.\ Beer sold. \You Can't Take It With You\ is corp.ing soon, ... As a result of_ the financial support of the o r i e n t a t i o;n c o rn tn i t t e e , Mountebanks ltas established a tradition of a fall freshman play. A production wholly undertaken by the freshman is based on the belief that one becomes oriented not by the way of brief \impressive\ exposures, but by having a cha nee to belong to a community --: an involvement in a common task and a feeling of contribution to .that task. \'You Can't Take It With You\ is certainly a good play to be used in such an orientation. The play is an airy, light comedy with a bit of eccentricity flowing throughout. All sorts of \the unusual\ are prevelant in the play: Snakes, being p!\rt of a living room decot, a bas.ement with enough gunpowder to 'blow up the entire city, a xylophone p.layer who constantly plays M otart, a ballet . Students are needed to work on .Unebacker (the Union College Course Evaluation). Anyone interested, please contac·t Lester Fei11tuck., 206 Webster House, Tel: 346-9426. People with and without computer expedenceare needed. Civic Players Perform by JULIA SMAGORlNSKY The Mousetrap, an· Agatha Christie murder mystery at the Schenectady Civic Playho1,1se, employs one of the author's favorite plot techniques. The entire action tak~s place within a single room in a short span of time, in this case the Great Hall at Monkswell Manor, England, constantly examinin~ the cast for· ·the actor they thmk. they aFe meant to least suspect. Regretably, this Very tight a~d dynamic for.mula loses some of _1ts appeal when put to use With miscast and. pallid actors. There were only a feW in this production who fell -.into this category; nevertheless they tended to throw during a blizzard. The intention of using this device is to present several eccentric personalities, each playing off the other, to provide fast-moving dialogue and the basis fot an intriguing mystery. Typical of Chrispe, no ch~ract~r is above su:a.picion; the audience ts Cast ofSchenectady Ci':'ic Players' production ojAgatha Christie's, \'Rf}e Mousetrap\. dancer who has taken lessons for eight years and \stinks a writer who never finishes any of her plays, two families P.nding up in jail, and a genuine romance (\Love D~eam\ idea) icing all of these \pecul'iarities\ should be able to hold anyone's attention. The play is based on the idea that Hfe should not have any houf!daries or limits, but should he re.laxed by \doing your own thing.\ All in aU, rewards in l·ife should not be placed above being an individual because you can't take it with you. photo y Cindy Wolfson Roger Summerhayes gestures during rehearsals for jrosh play, \You Can't Take it With Yvu\. · sand in the wheels of ·the pace of the play. William Smith as Major Metcalf was uneasy and colorless, although this may in part be due to his dead lines and sketchy role. Judi Gross and C. Aaron Alfred as Mollie and Giels Ralston were dimly characterized but this helped them work as more effective .balances to the extreme personaHties around them. Stephen Ralbovsky as Mr. Paravinci and Tom Pletto as Detective Sergeant Trotter were ~trong in their demanding roles. From her first grandoise assertion. \I am Mrs. Royle\. Marion McKendree's presence on ~tage demanded total attention. hringing with her the life and ~pirit of the play. .John C. Walrath was far f.rom dull his lia bilitv lav in his diched and ovcrpl~yed · intcrpreta tion of the peculiar character Christopher Wren. While somewhat entertaining at the outset. his frenzied sashaying about the stage like the Good F-'airy soon became tiresome. !he stage direction was fast· paced and uncluttered, . maximizing the potentia I of the one room to which the action was confined. The pit fa lis of this production in the final analysis are outweighed hy the plot, direction and some individual performances. As for the ending, it may be construed as black comedy or a cop-out. Glee Club Concert The combined Union College and Goucher College Clee Clubs will present a choral concert featuring Zoltan Kodaly's Laudes Organi on Sunday afternoon November 3, at 4:00 PM, in Memorial Chapel. l.audes Organi is a fantasia on a twelfth century sequence, \organ praises\. The Hungarian- born Kodaly wrote the work in 1966 f0r the annual National Convention of the American . Guild of Organists, where it won Vvidc acclaim. Kodaly used musical influences fronl his native country rather extensively. and the result is a very warm, lyrical piece of music. In addition to the Kodaly work. the combined Glee Cluhs will perform Giovanni Garhrioli\ sacred symphony, Jubilate n~a. with brass choir. Each cluh will also perform several works individually. Union alumnus Keith Kibler will round out the program, singing Alfredo Casella's Three Sacred Songs for haritone and organ. Kihlcr. who graduated with a degree in English in 1973 and a certificate in Music in 1974, is now studying at the New Fngland Conservatory of Music in Boston. I ickets for the concert will he available at the door, or from the Union College Arts Department Office (370..f>201 ).

i . 1 \ ' \. ) CONCORDIENSIS, Wednesday, Oct. 23, 1974 Gapping the Bridge hv JOHN DESROCHERS . and SLEEZE On October X, twenty-two h ridge players, ranging in ahi lily 1wm novice to semi-competent, , 1 ,sembled in Hale House Upper 1 oungc for the first of this term's three S tudent-Faeulty Hridge Club meetings. When the dust linallv cleared, Profs. (ioodheart ;t nd i~acol'l had taken first r lace. lnrdan Spivak and Hov.ie tonndman took st:cond \.\hilt: the 111 imitable Botos scraped up a tie lor third with last year's \'Partnt:rship of the Year.\ Pete \lillman and .Jim Mills. Hut enough of this reporting! Below is the Bozo Bridge Hlundcr fpr today. :-.nuth de ls. Bidding: South IS JH 4S West rass pass all pass F.-W Vulnerable. I he :\ orth 2H JS East pas; pass Opening lead: King of diamonds l he bidding is straightforwan.l. promotes West's nine as a wmner. I here was no way to avoid the loss o.f a heart, also, so South 1\eBt down o~o~e. When it was all over. North, who had calmly 11atched his game go dl.JWI1 the drain. hlurted out, \Yon Bo1o! \II 1·ou had to do wa~ thro\.\ your lmi;1g heart on the third diamond tn~tead ol trumping and you 11 ould hale made the contract!\ Sure enough. after Fast v.ins With the diamond queen. South wins any return. draws the out,rauding trumps. and make~ his contract tn 1 itH.' t orm. In dtect. all he had to do 11a.., to trade his ht:art loser tor a diamond loser to a\oid promoting \\.'e~t'' lourth trump. \\ e 11 on't mention \\hich one of u~ Botos played this one hecausc Skut: is easilv emharra,seJ. At am ratt:. come.hv vnursell or \.\ith a .partner and pi<;! some hridge on l uesday night (Octoher 21)) at 7:45 Ill Hale House Upper l ounge. p~oto by Cintjl~t,Wolfson Players rehearse freshman play. North S-Q, 4, 3 11-K. 9, !l, 3, 2 D-X, 7, 6, 2 C-A West I he diamond king holds the I irst trick and continues with the ace, \\ hich is trumped in the South hand. South proceed~ by h:ading a low spade to dummy's (;jlleen. \\'est ducking. He then leads back a spade to his jack, which West 1\ins. West then leads a third d.iamomd to East's jack. South, cursing the bad trump split, stomps on the diamond 4ueen \\ ith his 10 of trumps, which Freshman Play Coming Soon East S-2 H-Q. J, 10 D-Q. 10, ~ S-A, 9, 7, 6 H-5. 4 1>-A. K. 9,5,4 .L C-9, 6 An ad hoc committee has been formed to evaluate Professor David Stineback for promotion and tenure at Union College. The committee invites all members of the Union community to submit written evaluations of Professor Stineback to Erik Hansen of the History Department. c ·-10. X, 7, 5. 3, South S-K. J. 10, X, 5 H-A. 7, o D-J C-K. Q, .1. 4 BLITHER ( ontinued from Page 6 P\T meeting I hur~da:. < kt<,h-:r 24. at 7:30 rn St rau~~ I .oungt:. I he Computer Sci..:ncc Dcpartm<:nt is sponsoring a conte:;;t to name the new PDPX mini-computer. I he wrnner will rccei\e \a file kept ~m the per~on ol the winner's choice, to be handed over to the appropriate agencies when requested.\ Entries mav he submitted to Ellen Radack. Box 5H5. or Prot. Williams. Steinmet7 Hall. * * * * ·1 he inhabitants of McKean and Smith House. and those ol the Lenox Rd. dorms invite the Union communit) to a -~­ sided party on Friday night, October 25th: I) 7:30, Hick(~ck Hou'e- informal poetry reading with Calvin Anderson. Wwc and cheese served. 2) 8:30, Free movie at Edwards. Marx Brother's \At the Circus.\ Ice cream served. 3) 10:15. Free dance at the Gym with Arkestra ... \Jan that makes you move.\ Beer sold. * * * * \You Can't Take It With You\ is coming soon .... As a result of the financial support of the orientation committee, Mounte·hanks has established a tradition of a fall freshman play. A production wholly undertaken hv the freshman is based on the h~lief that one hecmnes oriented not bv the wav o! hricf \imprcs~ive\ expmt~rcs. hut hy ha1ing a chance to hclong to a l'llllll11 unit\ ;m 1 n\ ol\ ernent in a comrno;l ta,k and a feeling of contrihution to that task. \'You Can't I ake It \\'ith You\ 1' certamly a gnod play to he used ltl 'uch an orientation. r he play i~ an airy. light comedy with a hit of L'Cl'L'ntricity lltm ing throughout. .\II sort~ ol \the unusual\ an: pre 1 cia n t 111 t he pIa y. S na kes, heing part of a li1 ing room decor, a basement with ennugh J!Unpowder to hlm1 up the entire L\it\ a \)lophone player 'Aho co;Jstantly plays M ontrt. a hallct Students are needed to work on Linebacker (the Union College Course Evaluation}. Anyone interested, please contact Lester Feintuck, 206 Webster House, Tel: 346-9426. People with and without computer experience are needed. Civic Players Perform by JULIA SMAGORINSKY lhe Mousetrap, an Agatha Christie murder mystery at the Schenectady Civic Playhotise, employs one of the author's lavorite plot techni4ues. The entire action takes place within a ~ingle room in a short span of time, in this case the Great Hall at Monkswell Manor, England, during a blinard. I he intention of using this device IS to present several eccentric personalities. each playing off the other, to provide last-moving dialogue and the basis for an intriguing mystery. I ypical of Christie. no character is above suspicion; the audience is ,;,_!. constantly examining the cast tor ·the acto-r they think they arc meant to least suspect. Regretably, this very tight a~d dvnamic formula loses some of tis appeal when put to usc with miscast and pallid actors. 1 here v.ere onlv a few in this production v.ho te-ll into this category: nevertheless they tended to throw ') Cast of Schenectady Civic Players' production of Agatha Christie's. \The Mousetrap\. dancer who has taken lessons for eight years and \stinks.\ a writer \.\ho ne\er finishes any of her plays. t'Wo lamilie~ ··nding up in ,1ail, and a genuine romance ('\\.ove Dream\ idea) icing all of these \'peculiarities\ should he able to hold anyone's attention. I he play is hased on the idea that life should not llavc any houndaries or limits. hut should he relaxed by \doing your own thing.\ All in aiL rewards in life -.lwuld not be placed above heing an individual because vou r.:an't take it with you. photo hy Cindv Wolfson Roger Summerhayes gestures during rehearsals for frosh play, \You Can't Take it With You\. · -.and in the 1vheels ol the pace of the plav. William Smith as Major Metcalf was uneasy and colorless. a !though this may in part be due to his dead lines and sketchy role. .I udi Ciross and C. Aaron Alfred as Mollie and Ciiels Ralston were dimly characterized but this helped them work as more effective ba Ia nccs to the ext remc personalities around them. Stephen Ralhmsky as Mr. Paravinei and lorn l'letto as I >etecti1e Sergeant I rottcr \\crL' -,trong in their demanding roil'<;. l rtltll hn I ir-.1 !,!randoisc assertion. ··1 am VIr-.. Bmlc\. \!anon \td.;.L·ndrt·c\ prl''t'nl't' <111 -.ta):!t' dt:lll.tlllll'd t\tal altenti<lll, hrmging \\ith hn the lik ;~nJ -.pirit nl t lw pla1 .lnhn C. \\ alt;tth \\,h tar lr<•tll dull hrs lrahili11 la1 111 In, L·liched ;rnd u\np l;t\~:·d. t ntcrrn·ta ttPn nl the J't'L\ til ia r L. ha r at·ter ( · h n-.t ''P ht•J \\ t e n . \\ h 1 I c ' n m e 1\ h ;t t L'fltl·rtaining ;~t tlw (lliht'l. hr' lrTnlied .,a,hal 111).! ahout the '>la).!L' like the ( ioml J·atr\ .,O<lll hct\;tlllL' tire some. I he '>ta):!e d ircctron \\ ;t., l.t~t­ pat\ed and unclutt,·r,·d. ma.\imiting the pntcntial ot the one room IP which the action \\a!-> confined. I he pitlalls ol this production in the final analysis arc outweighed by the plot, direction and !->orne individual performances. As for the ending. it may he construed as hlack comedy or a cop-out. Glee Club Concert I he comhincd Union College and Goucher College Clee Cluhs will present a choral concert leaturing Zoltan Koda ly's l.audes Organi on Sunday afternoon \ovemher 3. at 4:00 PM. in \ltemorial Chapel. Laudes Organi is a fantasia on a tv..clfth century sequence. \organ pratses\. !he Hungarian- horn Kodalv wrote the v.nrk in IYOb lor t-he annual :\atiPnal ('ornentwn of the \mcrican (,ui!d nl On..!allt~h. 1\ hnc rt 1\!111 \\ tde acda-trn K \lJ,d~ u~cd rnu,tcaltnlluclll't'' lr<llll hr~ rLtl.lll' l'llllntry rather <:'dcn:-.tl <::II. and the re,ult ~~ .t \l'r~ I\ arm. I~ rrL·,rl p rr;'Ct' <ll mu-. rr. In dddrttnn tt1 t hr 1\. ''d.tll work. the L'Pll1hrn~·d (rkc ( luh' 1\ill perlnrm (iHllannr liarhrr,dr\ ,acred ,,mpllllfl\ .. Juhilatt' Dra. 11 11h hr.t-.s t'llllll. I dL·h cltt1'1 \\t!l .tls<l pcrl,,rrn 't'lr;·r.tl \\,,rh., tndi\ td ua II\. 1 11\llll ,tillflllllb 1\.l'lt It k.thki 1'.111 round nut thL· ('1•1!-!f,tlll. -.m.f:!mr. .·\It red<l C.t,L·II.r \ I hrcc ~ucrcd Song\ tor harii<'llt' .tnd organ. 1\thkr. 1\ho ).!Jadll<t!ed \lith a degree rn I ll[!.lish til fl)~3 anJ a certificate rn :\1 mtc m ll)\4. Is rw\\ studying at the :\.:1\ I ngland Consenator~ ol \tusrc tn Boston. lrckcts tor the eomcrt 'Alii he available at the door, or !rom the Union College Arts Department Office ( 3 70-620 I).



by VI of g. RA for ulty and and of nities nner. on. in CONCORDIENSlS, W\edn~sday Oct, 23, 1974 Page9 by SAM HUGHES If the adrenalin · at the Bruce Springsteenconcer,t had been fed t>Vet to Niagra-MohaWk, not only the UCol. campus but the entire electric city could haYe :been lit up like a honfire for a good wee·k and a ha>lf. A packed: and exuberant house braved the frigid , weather,· early afternoon hang.oVers, and Goebel and Lang; only to he entertained by something resembling a werewoif on a (lexadrine binge. Goebel and Lang, along with their head-bobbing hass cowboy and Funky Drummer hit the stage first and gaye an hour's worth of clean, tight and slightly an¢mic music. They were obviously competent musicians and weU rehearsed,- but t;hey generated Ml ,the raw excitement -of Hubert HumphreY at a Mazzola party. !\hey came across as an awfuliy nice bunch of guys, hut ()oth their music and their show severely lacked ptesem;:e. The band' trotted happily back on .stage and proudly informed the crowd that we were the .first aud'ience in their eight years of playing to ever ask thl!m back for more. Alter intermission ·the house lights were nipped and the stage was black ex~;ep~ for a blue floodlight that silhoetted a pian0 player:, a spacey~looking character with a violin, and Springsteen. It was. kind of hard to figure out just what to ma'ke of bim: my first impression was t~at he had been rejected hy the Hell's Angels for being too much of.a Neanderthal. He was decked out in sneakers, blue jeans. With the cuffs up, a black leather jacket and Joseph· Q. Asskicker sunglasses. He moved his body, at first anyway, in a positively unnatural manoer reminiscent of Joe Cocker with a case of terminal' constipation. He ,began ,to s:ing (or whatever). His voice; which I ha:ppened to l:ike, also suggested getting up on sub-zero mornings to wrestle Ci rizzly Bears before breakfast. lhe first song, like most of the others; was about some NYC area junkie namec;l Frankie, complete with ,hot cars, choppers, grea;sers, Spanish w0men and rhe whole bit. ·rhesong w.as as'absurd as the singer, and '1- found myself snickering slightly yet I couldn~t help feeling the power of the. man behind trle mask. Springsteen hirn!lelf was the master showrna tt.. He somehow controlled bc.th himself and t+1e hand with. the sort of deadly precision usually feund only in savage dictators., and by the last three numbers he had the audience clap.ping and stomping and sh.outing w.ith the , type of ,frenzy that pt.Its people like At~ila the Hun in .power. As for the <J.uality of the music itself? Hard toteU just how good it was; it wa•s d.ifficult to appreciate ·it on anything but a very gut lev.oel, cartsidering the nature of the show .The musicians were not givena chance to exhibit their full talents due to the confines of the music, roughly categoriz!!d as .a sort of soul rock. The lyric~, thoUgh sometimes interesting a11d .amusing, were hrutaHy repilitious, and as Springsteen. and his whole act were constantly hovering, in my eyes, on the l1:1dicrous, how could I possibly say that I found his to he one of the best s:hows I've ever seen? Not a bad' qllestion. S.prin.gst·een: Another's View by BLAIR R~fSCHER The Social Committee sta·rted their fall series with Bruce Springsteen, They might have done better. As on~ local s11ge put it (whilewalkingout of Memorial Chapel at 10:35last night with his hands over his ears): \lfs Noise. If you like noise, well, that's cool. But if you don't .... \ Essentially, Springsteen makes a lot .of noise. And last Saturday, a lot of people liked it. Some even considered it music. It goes like this: Hjgh•pitched,, squeaky~sealy, rhythmic whining cries. A. thud. two bangs, a brokeh .string; but he plays on .. Springsteen's band is composed of a sax, a \ i(llin,. a piano, somethfng appto_ximating a keyboard, a Pertussi<m spec. lst Class, and sometimes a bass. Springsteen holds his guitar low, . and he plays it as if he were manipulating a phallic symbol He uses it as a baton when he presur\Ies to conduct his associ:ltes. Pointed, Thr.ust, Stom.pt, and jqmped. He Strt.mtned his. ph~all-us, occasionally trying some fingering, but the phallus won't re~pond. He swings it round behind bis.right hip, and uses it as a machine gun (or a phallus?) shooting ('?J at the crowd. He wears cool-look mirror shades. ·People. who fancy themselves as rock stars don't like other people to see their·eyes. It gives them a kick·of elusiveness. Springsteen had a good light show working for him. Lights on both sides of the stage, in back to silhouette the star, on the stage itself; Jollowspots, spots. aimed at the audience, and a laser which bounced aroundon the back wall, occasionally <l(pping to ,reflect red spots off Sprin_gsteen's shades. He can't sing~ as I normally use the word. He screeches, t-o \be suFe, and m~kes a whole array of different JJO ises in to the microphone. Shouting and screaming with a permanent case oflaryngitis, or is it oral diarrhea? They say that one should listen to the lyrics. I find it hard to believe that there are any. A typical (they all sound the ~arne') Springsteen song {they run into each other su~h that it is hard to tell ~tlere one ends and t.he n,ext begins) goes rath~r like this: Springs1een stands atop the microphone, hoarsely intoning an epic.. He doesn't even make a pretense of singing. If there is any instrumental accompanyment, it 'is usually drums, or keyboard, out always -very subtle. This is what is know as the quiet phase. The \louder{ instrumental\ phase Wa.tch Out! It's Coming Nov; 14-15 DOUBLE FEATURE!!! TilE FILM COMMITTEE PRESENTS Krazy Krowd Kreates Kommotion at .Koncert. Though revi(!wers put thumbs down on Springsteen everybody MONKEY BUSINESS · else enjoyed it. Free' Pair of lleel Savers with every Purchase. 439 State St. Schenectady, N.Y. OFFER GOOD ONLY WITH THIS AD. • I with the Marx Bros. and REEFER MADNESS Sat. :at 7, 9:30, 12 Sun.. at 7, 9 All Snows in SSOI6 PACKAGE HANDLING 1 Part-time Employm:ent Male or Female S Days a Week, 4 Hrs. a·Day Eve'. hts. $3.80 per hr. CONTACT UNitED PARCEL:SERVICE Avis Dri~e. Latbain• 73(1..0700 or Mn.. Marras, Stt~den.t Ai,d foll,ows: The sax, or one of the keyboards, or even the violin play a solo, with support from the rest. Springsteen usually improvises some \vocal effects\ along with this. He. quickly brings the noise level up to 110 decibels, and it is at this level that the true aficionado begins to hear it. This turns into whatone.would think would be the finale, but Springsteen turns around and urges his co-conspirators to hegger and better ·noise. The keyboard starts hanging, the bass continues his frenzied slashing, the drummer goes into a \drum solo\ which means making as much noise as one possibly can. Hy this time, the noise has reached 130 decibels, a-nd true Dawe's photo by Bo~ Johnson devotees of the art say that at this point one can hear a delicious melody feeding back thru several of the microphones. The seismograph at Schenectady Community College records an ca\rthquake with an intensity reaching 8.5 on the Richter scale. The noisl! reaches still new heights, and the fans are delirious. They dance in their seats. They jump out of the balcony in the Chapel. They cheer, hoot, scream, and vibrate ·io the rhythms. Finally, Springsteen, with a flourish that just hints of the maestro in him yet untapped, waves the phallus and the noise ceases. It's a great show, if you can stand the deafening volume. But it ain't music. Tues,. Thurs 'til 9 lJU'vViVTOW.V SC\H ENECTA.D Y · 420 State Street A man's coat. Handsome, safari styled. Decisive. Vi\rile. Fashionable. Tailored from sumptuous, luxurious buttery soft glove leather with every attention to detai I. Rich brown color. A great value,

/ !' ·,, l• : • :' l ' ;, 1 ; f !' ' i r Page 10 CO'f.1COR'DIENSIS, Wednesday, Oct. 23, 1974 Term Abroad - Franc·e by MARCIA PODGORSKI After the four :hour bus ride up the \sc~nic\ Northway, we arrived at the airport in Montreal. Checking baggage was the first hass·le that we had to contend with. \What do you mean only 44 lhs.? I though it was 50!\ \N e, this my pocketbook, not my suitcase!\ It was with great joy that we anticipated flying comfortably in an Air Canada 747. After boarding, an announcement was made that passengers could purchase earpJiones (for $2.50) to · listen to music, comedy, and 1 ot the movie of the evening. Try to im::1gine the pandemonium that broke loose when they announced that the film was none othet than \The Way We Were\! The Union gang of course broke into t.umu:ltuous applause, much to th.: dismay of the other passengers who were expecting a quiet night Hight. Having taxied a short distance, another announcement was made. \There will be a short delay. It is necessary that we service the restrooms.\ Thirty minutes ·Ia ter, we slowly started backing out of the hangar when \a small oil leak has just heen discovered;. it is necessary that we return.\ An hour later, the same scene, another announcement: \The small oil leak is a lot larger tha-n we had anticipated. Unfortunately we will have to change p.lanes. Thank you for your patience; you will .each receive a complementary drink and dinner \'m ·be served.\ (One drink on the empty stoniache did wonders to i~pore\e the Union gang's spirits!) So, (fi-ve hours behind sc hed ule)at '' ;QGI A..M ., it was off to Par.is, in an A~i r Canada DC-8! (and no ooevie) \ltt/e had 24 hours to spend in Paris, and for those of you who ~e~t last year, we were in a <fiffere nt hotel, and this one was taQt in. the ' 1 red light\ district! On Sat11rclay afternoon, 43 Union' s1uciients and. I Professor Thornas ('111,\'h>O llad by then already called tile re»:Je 47 times) boarded. the ta:ai1n for Rennes. T~nsion mounted during the J\;2 !uu r l'ide: ''I wonder what my fain ily''s going to be like?'' \I hope tlley're young\ \I hope they have (CJr.JoJI't· have) kid's.\ ''I hope they f!hOto by Marsh Gosnell · As the Homecoming crowd at the football game knows, you only g«Y around once in life, so you gotta reach for all the gusto you can get! Levrs. O.ve's· Meni· Shop I 453 State St. , (downtown Schenectady) 1 . Watch Out! It's C(Jming Nov. 14·1J. ACE CARDS & GIFTS 175 JAY STREET (off State) COME SEE OUR VARIETY OF ANY OCCASION AND HOLIDAY CARDS. FOR LIQUOR AND WINE Try Jake Lipstein's 464 State Street FR4-1888 72t ALTAMONT AVE. .. NO DELIVERY CHARGE WITH TWO PIZ2AS WDIU¥A 1JN11'L MIDNIGII'I\ Cd31~ Tfi~· Sound of Perfection Where the Sta1e of the Art is a Way of Life WITK THIS AD Y liOll Can Have A S54.95 M91ED Cartridge Fo.r .$18.00 WE ARE DEALERS IN THE FOLLOWING E!}UIPMENT ADC • Decca Cartridges • Transcriptor T .. rntables • V estiaal Arms • Connoisseur 1'· .. rntables • SAEPower &! P're Amps • Quad Anaps: & Pre Amps and l'uners • IMFStudio Momit10r Speakers • 221 Mohawk Ave. • Scotia, N.'llf. 12302 • 393-6828 speak slowly.\ etc. At thtJ university at last, the scene was something to behold. Nervous families ancl nervous st11dents eyed each, other apprehensively, until names were called and students were placed with the appropr.ia te and ''carefully selected famUies.\ It was like an excerpt from \The Dating Game,\ as student. #I joyfully m~t his \date'' for t·he ... next 10 weeks' ,...., \ . After spending a quiet Sunday with tbe family, we were a·ll re- uniWd Monday at the University, where at last, we could speak English once again! Th~n, it was time to compare notes on French ~'brothers,\ ''sisters,\ ''parents,\ and last of all, food. (\We had btains for dinner.'' \We had tripe.\ \I d.idn't even ask!\ Things · have settled into a routine by now, but the initial \•culture shock\ was an unforgettable experience. Union vs. Schenectady Continued from Page 4 magistrate, do all in my power to carry it into execution.\ Despite animosities with the college, Schenectady did not relish the thought of losing Union to Albany and the upstart politician. The Schenectady Daily Union said of Thacher upon his election as mayor, on page one, \!tis only platform was one he built for himself ... It now behooves President Raymond and Mayor Clute of Schenectady to $it up nights and keep a good watch over Union College.'' Relations -between Albany and Schenectady grew worse, Newest Lunch 715 ALBANY ST. . The oldest lunch in the area. · . More than 50 years we serve First . · Prize hot dogs with the original : famoqs sauce. Also different special dinners everyday. We ar!l open 7 days a week - weekend · till 4. Visit Newest Lunch. Good · : nlace to Eat. TYPING Reasonable Rates Fast Service 393-2233 I• ' sharpened by the State Superintendent of Schools' comment that \Schenectady is only a suburb of Albany.\ The .Schenectady ·alumni, of course, led the fight to keep Union in Schenectady. The Committee of ''Forty K leptolnaniacs,\ as they were ironically called, met on January 25, 1896, and presented resolutions to the Board of Trustees. The resolutions were aimed against' the \talk of such moving.\ The Forty Kleptoa won the day, and whether they are to thank or to blame is still undecided. Luke's Supermarket Open 7 Days a Week. 830 Eastern Ave. 346-9757 TV R'ENTAL c :\11 J.ittll' ,h $2 Pr1·1ln\· J~oif.,·-R!\'r -- ta··-i7\;t9·· W ''~'~·Monl h- Y l'llf' J•n•ifii'• ~45Yt- . 313 New Karner Rd. . Route ISS Near K·Mut ...... . ' OUR LID! MON·Steak (BONELESS SIRLOIN M. \'. CUT) . TOE. Rf!~$t Prime . · Ribs of Beef REGULARLY $6.55 WED • Lobster Tails $5 .• 95- • REiiULAliLY $7.55 THURSi 1 The feast\$5 Something For Every Taste- REGULARLY $6.95 Filet Mignon, 1!2 Chicken, Lobster Tait. Share it-Onl~ $1.95 Extra! . fl.!&, of course, aiLthe salad you can make and all the Beer, Wine or Sangria you can drink wittl dinn~r for 50$. F:atlino &Orinki11g Public House Eve.r! COLONIE • Wolf Road Park (518) 458-7·845 -- I Si,!l 20-'0 only frater passe Ruse Whit' Mere Zastr outst s-till l·nteri Whit• SpraJ effo.rl final safet~ . Hi divisi Chi D.U. into : Delt, one I a cl£ lheu allevi lhe . hy J toud I rem Sci Muse fourt Open runni p.m. whol4 ex pet youn peop eerie the \ tomb 'fh (oper Marl the f on\ Sche locat park Th . J

re- peak was ench nts,\ had had o a .an is of keep The rty were nted of were such won re to still . CONCOJ!.DIENSJS, Wednesday, .Oqt~ 13,.1974 INTRAMURALS GRtDDERS AT ·1-3 Sigma Chi defeated Delta Chi 20-'0 on Monday to ~:emain the only undefeated team ·in the fraternity league. Touchdown passes wet:e thro.wn by Randy Ruschak, Tom Everett and Jeff White ·to Fleet receivers Bart Mercer (2 touchdowns) and Bob Zastrow. The Sig .defense WjlS outstanding once again as they s-till remain unscored upon. ·l·nterceptions by Mereer and White and the line play of Big AI Sprague highlighted their defense efforts. Scott Media scored the final two points of the game on a safety. . Highlighting the other division's play was a 12:.0 upset of Chi Psi by Delta Upsilon. The D.U. victory thtows that division into a three way deadlock. Theta :Delt, Chi Psi and D. U. all have one loss as the season draws near a close, An upcoming Chi Psi Yheta Delt encounter should alleviate some of the conjestion. The D. U. victory was engineered hy John Thomson Who thl'ew touchdown passes to Terry Trembath and Steve Howdy- Continued from Page I ~ Do-Dad. Theta Delt kept pace . unlpaded the ball directly int() tlte with a 3 J.;() thrashing of Phi eager arms of an Engineer tackle Sigma Kappa. who lumbered .54 yards for a l7 ~8 The top two tea-ms in each R.P.I. lead. The only bright sp<Jt div·ision of the fraternity league in that play was some greathustle will qualify for the playoffs. Team by Leonard Le!! who started mme one from the American League than 20 yards downfield and still will play team two from t:he almost caught the R.PJ. tackle. National etc. With 8:37 on the game clock, In the 'Independent League, Union tried to come~ back. >!'he Engineers again found it impossible to move the stalwart Dutchman defense and' on the attempted punt, Ken Clugh .led a Garnet tush which smothered the attempt. Senior defensive back . Vince Ricciardi ended the threat with an interception on his own five ya,i·d line. l.e·onard Lee, Mike Deshler and Marty Cohn all turned in good performances however the breakaway abilities of superback Ron Westbrook were certainly mis$ed. Union's next start is against powerful Hobart in Geneva on Saturday. Anyone interested in going make yourse If hea·rd. There are plenty of rides going up. Fred Weil's team feU before 3rd Freshman fullback Marty Cohn floor South 19,.() but. rebounded carried most of the offensive load against Hank Bernstein's club 7~6. as the Dutchmen drove to tlle Meanwhile fred Weinstein's R.P.I. ten ya:rd line. fhen on :GIRLS TENNIS SP:llTS undefeated team stayed on top third down Urschel lofted a After two matches, the Union beating Mark Chittim's forces 7- perfect .pass to Miller at the back College Girls Tennis Club stands 0. The r-est of the Independent of ·the end zone. The extra point at l and L The Club's first match schedule, 19 games or more, were was missed and so we trailed I 7- against Albany State on Sept. 30 all forfeits. 14 with 4:57 to play. resulted in a 3 to 2 victory. The Soccer intramurals got 0ff The Union defense then Margaret Golden, playing first to a slow s~arttast week with only provided the team with two tn<>fe singles, was defeated 64J, 6-0 and two games. Sigma Chi defeated chances to score. FoHow.ing .the Pam Anderson, second singles, Fiji 1-0 on .a Bruce Freeman goal first Engineer punt Union moved lost in the third set 6-2, 4-6, 6-0 .. with only fourteen second§ to the visitor~s 47 before a .suspect Aubrey Carton ably defeated her remaining. The Tom Stone and third down call and a bad pit<Jh ()pponent 6-'0, 6-2, while first Mike Gray teams played to a 2-2 on the fourth gave R.P.I. the ball: doubles team. Ellen Uchtig and tie ·on Monday. AU tea:ms are §§!=.=5§§§§§§§1!5~§§§§§3: Susan Draper, after a very quick utged to consult your schedules FRATERNITY FOOTBALL match defeated Albany 6-0~ so that useless forfeits can be STANDINGS Se.cond doubles was the avoidea. determining match. Amy Juchatz AMERICAN LEAGUE and Faith Cail wen;, all smiles as they walked off the court winning 5-7' 6-2, 6-1. The Club's second match against Skidmore on Oct. 10 was a shutout, with Skidmore winning 5.0. The lineup for that match was first singles Aubrey Carton, second singles Margaret Golden, Third singles Rhonda Kaplan, first doubles Ellen Lichtig and Susan Draper and second doubles was Amy Juchatz and Faith Cail. The third and final match against Russell Sage will be played Thursday, Oct. 17, at Russell Sage . Help Haunted House SKIERS· ATTENTION Schenectady's Friends of the Museum announce pla:ns for the fourth annual Haunted House. Opening Octo.ber 20th (and running through Oct. 31st) at 1:00 p.m. it wili again bring a wholesome, exciting and fun experience for the Tri City area youngsters and adults. 40,000 people are expected to brave the eerie rooms and halls and explore the \Super Scare\ graveyard and tomb. The Golub Corporation (operators of Price Chopper Markets) have donated'the use of the former). t'-1· fi~.ld;'s ~uilding on\ Eastern Avenue in Schenectady. The Eastern Ave. location provides ample free parking and is easily accessible. The 50 cent donation will LeVI'S WORLD CAMPUS AFLOAT You'll . sail in February, with the ship your '.class-. room ~nd tbe .world your canwus •.. · combil'ling ac- credited studies with f!'ISCi- nating yisit~:t:o~Jh![!; ~~~J.~d. ports of tfi~pn~-:it, Afnc~, and the f,A1t\E~tlt'as. ' over 10,000 students from 450 col.leges have already sailed with WCA -. · join· them! Fi• nancial\aid available. Write . today fgr free catalog. WC;\,·:ChapiT'P, Oun~~;i Bo~t:·Fp·Or;;..,lge, CA 92666 Now a llf!autlful · · orientat~ndant that doubles beautiful!~ · as a mirror!: Reed& Barton's · rh::hly cari.re'd, mirror-backed Mlng Pendant . . recreates the exotic elegance now, but more help is always needed. Anyone wanting to help in the preparations or .operations please call 377-2374. Old furnishings, pictures, rugs, etc. are still needed. For pickup call Mrs. Gray, 393-9043. of this famed periCld in Chinese art (1368 to 1644 A.D:). Repiete wiih the famed .gOC!d . lock Dr.agon. Matching chain available extn. Pendant diameter 21f•\. Gift-boxed, $12.95. REED &·BARTON · STERLING$12.95 (chain extra) Maurice Gra.ubart & so·ns 374•5404. 166 Jay St. vacation. One price of $70 covers all lift tickets, transportation, lessons, and a total of 3.6 hours of skiing. Finally, tlte ski team is again having five or six. meets this year. There are four events, namely: cross-country, jumping, slalom and Giant Slalom. If anyone is interested or wants more information, please contact Tom Karis or Peter Parker immediately. Tom Karis K.A. 370-6526 Peter Parker A.D. 346-9688 S.TART Y.OUR DAY WITH A SMILE MAKER AT HALE HOUSE SPECIAL Every Morning From 7:]0 ... 9:30 2 Eggs w I Toast or Pancakes or French Toast and .•• your choice of Bacon, Sausage or Ham and a Cup of Coffee 85 eents . . . . . . . . ' . ...... ..,.....,.. , .. : S.aga Bonus . . ·~ ~ ~ Coupon 10¢ off any purchase at Hale House 7:30-9:30 A.M. *excluding specials ' . . . . .. . . . . ...... ,..,- TTT 'T TT OFFER EXPIRES WED., OCT. 30TH, 1974 ·'

Pagel~· CONCORDIENSJS. Wednesday, Oct. 23, 1974 Under pressure Jeffries provides the winning margin. vhoto bv !)an McMan<~mon PLAYING THE FIELD In pursuit of excellence This past weekend academically oriented Union College was once again successful in sports. Ex;cept for a disappointing 17-14 setback on the... gridiron every Garnet team was. victorious over its counterpart from R.P.I. The cross-country team triumphed 25-31, soccer 2-l, J.V. soccer 6-1, and field hockey 1-0. The emotional pitch of the fans on Home Coming was exceptionally high. The joy of victory and the agony of defeat was heightened by the fact that we were playing R.P.I., our oldest and fiercest rival. In addition to these two emotiens which any true fan feels we would add another -. appreciation of the physical and ·mental excellence displayed· on a field of friendly combat. During the soccer game, watching the skill of Craig Jefferies on offense, Jim Bacharach on defense, and the acrobatic efforts of the RPI goalie, provided that feeling of appreciation. In the football game, the precision of an Urschel to Miller aerial, the rushing prowess of Leonard Lee, and the execution of our defense, aU combined to provide that same appreciative feeling. In the field hockey game on Sunday, two girls colliding exhibited that supreme effort so eQjoyed by those who truly understand athletics.. We believe that the experience of both fan and athlete is sufficient evidence of the value of intercollegiate sports. For the fan, the show of excellence and effort is awe-inspiring; for the athlete, it is a continual challenge. A superb performance and supreme effort are learning experiences for all involved. They illustrate the capacity of every I)erson for achievement. Through athletics, one can learn more than the rules of a game; one can develop a life style. A life style based on fair play, teamwork, and the pursuit of excellence. Most people appreciate excellence. Through sports, we can achieve it ourselves, or at least share in it as fans. In our society, where excellence is often callously sacrificed to expediency or pursued none too vigorously, sports remains an area of human endeavor where the challenge of excellence remains a guiding beac,on. Tbe Editors SPORTS SHORTS· 3 ()D 3 Basketball - A 3 on 3 basketball league will be formed with games beginning around Nov. 6th. Games will be half court, call your own fouls. No varsity or frosh b-ballers eligible for these games which will be to fifteen, win by two. The games will be scheduled on Monday through Thursday from 7 o'clock till 9 o'clock. Faculty teams are eligible so occasional games may be played at noon. Teams will be made up of four players ~o that absenteeism will not result in forfeits. Rosters must be submitted by Nov. !st. Coed Turkey Shoot - Coupl.es interested in competing on November 25th in an Archery Tournament, pick up. entries at the gym. First prize will be a turkey, second place prize is a chicken. Sign up deadline has been set for November 18. Intramural Cross-Country - The third annual intramural cross- country runs will be held on Friday afternoon, November lst. The 1-mile women\ race begins at 2:45 p.m.; the 2)'4-mile open race is scheduled for 3:00 p.m. Students, faculty, staff and alumni are c ligi blc. Awards to the first three finishers of each race; teams may rcpre~ent any group. To register, sec T.A. Blck, Bailey Hall, Room 208C. Olympic Records - U.S.A. has won the Olympic, woman's ,prlngboard title II q.ut of 12 times. The youngest U.S.A. gold medalist in the Olympics was diver Marjorie Gestring Bowman, 13 years of age, Berlin 1936, springboard competition. SOCCER UNDEFEATED by J'OHN B(JSTERUO and LEE RIMSKY This pas.t Hom.eco.min.g Weekend, the Gamet varsity booters put their 5-0 record on the line against the rugged Engineers ,f,rom RPL ln a tense and action-packed contest, U riion needed a last seond penalty kick to eke out an emotional 2-l victory. Going in,to the game, ·lJnion was ranked as the ninth best soccer. team in New York .State (coilege and university division). When RPI opened the scoring early in the first half, however, it did not seem that Union was going to live up to their laurels. But then, several minutes later, CFaig Jeffries. spurted down r.ight wing and with one violent thrust j1:1tnmed the ball deep into the RPl net. And that was the way it stayed u·ntil the last climatic seconds ·Of the game. A Ith ou gh Union's h i.gh powered offense finally got untracked for the last fifteen minutes ·of the game and applied relentless pressure on RPI goalie Evan Nestoredes, the Engineer ·net tender made a series of spectacular saves to keep the game tied. Nestorede's efforts was by the far the best -one turned in against Union alt year. And with less than a minute left on the cl0ck, it appeared that Nestoredes had indeed protected the tie for the underdog Engineers. But with thirty sec0nds rem~ining, a fallen RPl defender tragically touched the baJl with his :hand in t!he penalty area and set the stage for the nio&t exciting finish that one could ·imagine for a soccer game. With no time left on the cloc:k, the referee awarded Union a penal~y kick. Only twelve yaFds separated Garnet Graig Jeffries and goalie Nestoredes. Jeff~:ies calmly approached the baU and launched a perfect shot 'inches past Nestorede's outstretched hands. Aside f-rom Jeffries' he,roics, f>ther outstanding performances wen~ turned in by .. Ti Ralph\ Roumain \I.Jamboo\ Smith, Jim Hacharach, and Jim M~~:nning. The Gamet face their sternest test of the season this Wednesday when they face the Colgate Red Raiders. Next Saturday they are home agai:nst a strong Middlebury contingent. FOOTBALL LOSES BILL UNDERHILL For only the 14th time in 72 years Union lost the Dutchmen's Shoes to arch rival R.P.L Before one of the largest crowds in many years to witness a Union football game,. the Garnet made a good effort but came up short, 17~14. This weeks loss put the Garnet record at 1-3 for the season. It was similar to their two previous defeats in that mistakes were what cost the Union the ballgame. Even though total yardage was in the Dutchmen's favor,· 233 yards \to 21~ for R. P.I.. the Garnet turned the ball over six times and R.P.l. only twice. In the first period Union's defense was superb stalling R. P.I. twice inside our own 10 yard line. It looked as if R.P.L would score early in the period when Leonard Lee was hit hard and fumbled while fielding a punt on his own 42 yard line. R.P.l. then moved to the Union I 0 before Charlie Alter stalled the drive by pouncing on a mishandled pitch out. With the offense unable to move. Lou Miller punted to the Union 34 and this time R.P.I. was not stopped until they reached the Union one yard line. 011ce again Union was forced to punt from deep in their own territory. The Garnet defense however, hung i.n tough allowing just three points on a thirty one yar.d field goa:! with 12:05 left in the first halL The Dutchmen came right back with their best drive .of the day. Using the talents of Leonard Lee and Mike Deshler, the Garnet drove 65 yards in ll plays. Quarterback Joe Urschel got the score on a 2 yard sneak. On the ensuing P.A.T. atte.mpt the snap was bebbled but Ricky Mayell alertly picked up. the ball and While running full tilt toward the sideline, hit Mike Dishier in a crowd by the flag for a two point conversion. This put Upion ahead X-3 with 8:14 to p.l.ay in the second quarter. R.P.l. came right back ror a 10-8 moving 27 yatds in five plays after another fumbled punt. The Engineers scored on a two yard plunge by freshman running hack Bob Lechnecher. R.P.I. kept the pressure on in the third period driving ,to the lJ nion 22 yard stripe before Bob Mathias intercepted an Engineer p.ass in the end 7,.one. fhe game turned around on the next series. Joe ll rschel was dropping back to pass when he _was confronted with a strong R.P.I. pass rush. As he ·was hit and going <fown, Urschel fontinued on Page II Athletic Facilities - Tile gym is open Monday thru Sat. ~:00 to I 0:30, Sunday l :00 to 10:30 p.m. The field house is o.pen 8:00 to I 0:30p.m. seven days a week. Union Defense prepares for the R. P.l. charge. Tr in ab -- v Me im.I Co rna par see pre ad\ of poi of wh wil it 1 am its I of we1 his Un All pre inv the pre In of ele1 hm J Me (ex of rep of rna in der pre del USl dar no chi the lea dol Me COl ro' St

in with n the ie for with fallen t!l1e for one a a11d tched Jim g. Red in oints goal aiL back day. Lee the the snap ayell and the m a back five two n in the Bob neer the was he Me~th•g witb S·hldent · · Trustees tomorrow night 11t 10 in Strauss Lounge, ~3rn all. about the Colle~:e Ce.nter plans, Interested in Red Cross First Aid Progr~PU? Come to Strauss Lounge tomorrow at4:30. Feunded ,at Union College 1877 Vol. 1:04,. NQ •. 5 35 cents Wednesday, Oct()ber 30, 1974 · . . ' . - . -- Nott Memorial· . . .. . .. . .. . Wave of Vandalism Future is Examined ·By DAVIO McCOURT ·· What is. to be done abaut Nott Memorial? This is one of the rnost important questions facing Union C oUege today. M ore.over, i·~ is a matter about which the greateer part of the college community seems ignorant. Specifically, the problem which we face is the advancing physical deterioration of Union's architectttral foe~! point. If left unchecked, the trend of gFadual destruction under which Nott Memmial now suffers will in the very near future make it unusable as a college facility, and> will soon afterward threaten its existence. · allowing the metal lath beneath to rust and chip. Recent damage to the dome has proceeded at an accelerated rate, so that, !>Ubsequent to the architects' survey, at least one major hole in the roof has ~opened. This only adds. emphasis to the architects' urgent recommendation that the roofs of the dome b~ immediately replaced. For the ·r.resent, only exterior damage - that is, damage to what is c.aiied the 'skin' -of the building - has resulted. For example, much of the wooden planking and copper joints in the drum enclosure directly below the dome . needs replacement. In addition, the crumbling of plasterwork throughout the inside of the buil(,ling is progressing at an al~uming rate, so lhat little can now be salvaged. Furt-her still, many of the over two hundred and eighty separate windows in the building h~ve suffered from The base of the flagpole (above) and the sculpture \lcharus\ were two targets of vandals. Speciai to . Concordiens~ In the past week, Union College has undergone a t:ash of vandalism that has cost over $5,000 worth of college property. None of th~ :perpetrators of these acts have at the present been caught. The most bizarre incident was the theft of the over 20 foot tall sculpture that stood in front of the Science and Engineering Center. Done by the Vermont sculpture Peter Bramhall, it cost over $1,200 when it was purchased a year and a half ago and donated to the school. Dean l.ichtl!rman, who is an advocate for the Improvement of the college grounds, does not seek to prosecute but only wants to have the school's sculpture returned. In 1971,. the architectund firm of Mendel, Mesick, and Cohen, were commissioned to prepare a historic structure report for the U nian College Trustees and Alumni Council, which they presented after two years of investigation. In this report both the history of the N ott and its present condition are described. In particular, it details the extent of damage which neglect, the elements, · and college activities have inflicted upon the buildipg. Clark· vs. Javits ~econdly, last weekend the hand carved limestone base of.the flagpole was smashed causing over $4,300 worth of damages. It is thought that these gouges were caused when those who hoisted the garbage can over the flagpole, Homecoming Weekend, missed in their first attempts to reach the top .. Thirdly, damage was done to Mrs. Perkins Garden wbere benches were smashed last Saturday. The Garden is adjacent to the Rathskellar. Although outwardly the N ott Memorial may seem unchanged (except for the increasing density of its ivy cloak), the architects report an extensive deterioration of the . interior. Lack of mainte11ance has left the building in what they call a \shabby derelict condition,\ making proper assessment of serious defects more -difficult than is usually the case. However, certain damage is so evident as to leave no room for doubt. Water Leakage rhe architects state that the chief source of internal damage to the building is caused by Water leakage from the · roof of the d orne. which is beyond repair. Many of the slates which constitute the outer layer of the roof have been dislodged, by CINDY SHEPPARD Student workers for U.S. Senate candidates debated the issues last Thursday night in the Social Sciences faculty lounge. The debate, which attracted some 30 students, was a political forum presentation. · _AI Reisch, class of '75, represented former U.S. Attorney General Ramsey Clark, while Marsha Baker and Rich Feldman debated in support of incumbent Jacob Javitz. Marc Altman joined in to give an impromptu presentation of the conservative's candidate Barbara Keating. Reisch commented, \The issue stands between Javitz and Clark are not terribly varied. They don't differ an awful lot.\ He explained Clark's candidacy, however, by stressing the candidate's ideals and his commitment to campaign a,nd legislative reform. Baker concentrated on the \effectiveness\ of Senator Javitz, which she defined as \the things that get done.\ She emphasized J.avitz' effectiveness in many areas, including mass transit legislation, consumer protectionr and inflation control through defense budget cuts. The student worker offerred, ••He knows the compromises and the commitments of Capitol Hill.\ Similarly, Reisch said ~hat \Clark deals with making the system effective,\ and he accused Javitz of having \no inclination to reform the system.\ Here, Baker ·exclaimed in disagreement and defended that \things get done.\ Reisch compared the two campaign organizations and explained that Clark's is ••not a high•poweted campaign.\ He cited Clark'~ one finance Save your Hallvwe~n until Friday night, when you can grease up for the Shittons concert You can rock, slip, slide, and jive,· starting at 9 p.m. in the Gym. ~ ' committee as opposed to the Javitz organization which has ten finance committees. In addition, Reisch informed the group of Clark's voluntary campaign contribution policy, in which Clark does not accept any contribution exceeding $100 per person. According to Reisch, this is just one aspect of his views concerning campaign reform .. Adding a third side to the debate, Marc Altman said, \It's important to realize that there is a choice.\ ~eferring to the candidacy of Barbara Keating, he emphasized the importance of there being a conservative candidate in the Senate race. After the· formal debate, a question-and-answe.r period followed with the audience. Here the student political Workers were forced to address their camments to specific issues. Finally the reason why almost all Ucoll students attend meetings, cookies and coffee, were brought in.. Informal discussion among all proceeded for another hour as the events of the world were forensicallv ruminated. · This damage has gone beyond the name of pranks. These actions cost the school a large expense: monetarily and in man-hours. Several employees of the Maintenance department expressed the view that 'though only a small small group of students are involved in these actions directly, it is hard to conceive that many other students do not wi,tness these crimes. Administrators emphasized the impossibility of protecting Union's grounds without the co- operation of the students. The Union and Goucher ('ollege Glee Clubs will present a concert in Memorial Chapel this Sunday afternoon at 4:00 p.m. The groups will perform (;abrieli's Jubilate Deo and Kodaly's Laudes Organi, with Professor High Allen Wilson on the organ. Admission is free for the l nion Community. Housing Situation SPECIAL TO fONCORDIENSIS C'oncordiensis has learned that t:he Dean of Housing is presently in the process of reviewing housing assignment procedure~. I he <;tudv was initiated hv the office of.the Dean of Studenh. who proposed the comidcration of a progra.m which v.ould d ispC\nse with s4uatters rights. In li'iscussing with ('oncordy the nature of this new program. Dean of Housing Dchhie Kilgus stressed the tentative nature of all propos!.'d changes. She is formii1g a large group to study the situation. consisting of the Student Life Committee. an RA committee, and any and all interested students. I he heart of the debate is the existence of sljuuttcrs rights. Dean Kilgus stated that she wants to find out what system is hcst 'lor l.'nion. Some !pvc argued for ,d\>olishing '4uattcr~ righb hecau~c of the destructi\c ,jtuatiom that ari~e. Mark Smith. Dean of Students. told Concord} that one student last spring accused hi:- roommate of heing psychotic, in order to get rid of .the roommate <tnd hring in a lricnd. The dean dnphasitcd the lact that this wa> not just one. Isolated i11cidcnt. Without ~4uattcr:-. righ.b, :-.ay~ Smith, these situations couldn't arise. Yet. in several surveys taken over the past few years. students Continued on Pa2e 3

Page2 CONCORDIENS/S, Wednesday, Oct. 30, 1974 ~~' ~~f?\t Olmtror.ltmult!t ~ Editors-in-chief .............. , .............. Chris O'Connor Rob Mondschein Culture Editor ........................•............. Peter Sobol Features Ed'itor .•................................. Jon Scheer Sports Editors .............................. Kevin Crawford ' Bill Underhill Photo Editors ... , ................. ; .............. Bob Johnson Ellen Radack Danny ·McManamon Graphic Ai:ts Editor ............................ Bob Johnson Managing Editor. ................... , ..... Doug Carpenter Contributing Editors ............................. Judy Dein Fred Weinstein Historical Editor ...................................... Bill Talis Business Manager .............................. Jennifer Port National Advertising .......................... Steve Kelley Subscriptions Editor ............................ , .. Lisa Tietz Art Staff Marianna Petrik - ................................. . Jill Dannenberg Staff: Audrey Rothchild, Janet Chapman, Lee Schwartz, Doug Carpenter, Phyllis Edelman, Rick Ford, Bill Pia us, Sam Hughes CONCORDIENSIS is published every Wednesday by the s.tudent body of Union College, Old Gym Hall, Schenectady, N.Y. Publications Office: The Jewish World Publications, 771 State St., ·· Schenectady, N.Y. 12307 (346-2356). Entered in the Schenectady Post Office as Second Class Matter. Subscription Rate 35 cents per copy. $8.00 a year delivered anywhere in the United _States. recent pranks lack humor Vandalism is reaching disgraceful proportions on this campus. When pranks become destructive, they are no longer humorous. This past week, several exam pies of this type of senseless destruction were evident. The sculpture in front of the Science and Engineering Building was stolen, the limestone base of the flagpole was broken, and the fence behind Dean Smith's house was broken up. Concordiensis deplores this idiotic destructiveness and calls on students to exercise the concern and responsibility necessary to eliminate· ·this disgraceful activity. oust squatters We believe that the time. has come to alter the procedure by which the college assigns dormitory rooms. Specifically, we recommend the abolition of squatters' rights. It is our belief that the existence of squatters' rights leads to many unpleasant situations as students jockey in the winter and spring to get into a room for the coming year. Frequently, these arrangements involve the removing of some unwanted persons. The hurt that these 'undesirables' feel 1s quite real and quite unnecessary. Further, squatters' rights leads to a proprietary attitude among dormitory residents; people tend to believe that they 'own' a hall or a floor. Consequently, .outsiders are looked on with some disfavor. Finally, we believe that the fragmentation of the c~mpus is prolonged hy squatters' rights. People settle in one dormitory Jor most of their college life, and concentrate their social lives around that dormitory. For these reasons, we believe that the policy of allowing students to declare squatters' rights is extremely damaging to the social context on campus. Without this policy, the college community might grow, replacing the s¢veral dormitory communities that presently exist. ' An ad hoc committee to consider the tenurability of Professor T .A. Loughlin (Mathematics) . has been formed and consists of Professors: H. Birecka W. W. Fairchild .J.R. Shanebtook ILS. Sharlet. ~hairman Members of the college Community may submit . written comments concerning the tenurability of Professor · J,aughlin to any member of the committee ·before November 29, 1974. you said· it Editors, Concordiensis: One of the disadvantages of living in a commtmity is the necessity of abiding by rules that you hate, that you think ·are absurd and unfair. We are two dog-owners who find ourselves forced to comply with these kinds of dog rl}les. No sane person would want to keep their dog cooped up dm:ing classes, or tied to a leash while crossing a field. We know h0w hard it is to come up with the $50 for registration, a:nd to resist the temptation of letting your dog roam and run free for a while. But the ultimatum given us by the All-College Senate is this: either obey the dog rules or we'll kick all dogs off-campus as of January I, 1975. They have made dog-owners responsible for getting on other dog-owners' backs to obey the rules. - So we appeal to all dog-owners to start following the rules, as lousy as they are, so we can demonstrate to the Senate that we're responsible, and so that we won't have to give our dogs away. Laura Chakrin Barbie Beck waste nott, want nott Editors, Concordiensis: · . Elsewhere in this paper, the problems that the college faces in choosing betwen the restoration or the destruction of Nott Memorial are discussed. The way in which we regard the Nott itself is the central matter in aH this, and it is. with this that I am concerned. lt may be said that the things which re~llly make a .college are its people - faculty ~nd students - and the kind of learning etK.perience in which they can take part. lt may also be said that ivy-covered buildings are properly of only secondary interest when compared with the academic program which a college offers. All this is true. However, Nott Memorial is more than just a building, and a decision to spend latge sums in ollder to save it is more than just a simple administrative decision. Nott Memorial is both memorable and remarkable not only for its ,physical appearance, but also because of the human aspirations which have been associated with it for over ·the past one hundred and sixty·yea:rs. N ott Memorial is said to he perhaps the first American expre~Ssian .of the architectural style shaped by the famed Victorian critic and writer, John R.uskin. Perhaps Ruskin's WQrds and the sentiments they express are the appropriate ones which Union students should be mindful of when they regard the case for Nott Memorial's survival; ... it is again no que~tion of expediency or feeling whether we shall preserve the buildings of past times or not. We have rzo rigkt to touch them. They are tzot ours. They belong partly to those whobuilt them, and partly to a./1 the 7 generations .. , who· are to follow us... It may hereafter be a subject of sorrow, or a cause of injury; .. that we have C()nsulted our present convenience by casting down such buildings as we choose to dispense with. That sorrow, that loss we have no right to inflict. Sincerely yours, David McCourt!76 wilso.n's :loss . is republicans' ga1n by JACK PITNEY By now it's a foregone c:;onclusion that Hugh Carey will stomp Malcolm Wilson in next Tuesday's election. Paradoxically, such a defeat could be the best· thing that's happened to the state GOP in a long time. First of all, it would shake In!.lny of the local organizations from their laziness and complacency. For sixteen years, the county committees have been able to rest easy in the assurance that Rockefeller's resources would pull the party through even the toughest statewide elections. Moreover, control of the governorship !las meant control over patronage, with all its implicit advantages. With Rocky gone and Carey in the statehouse, the leaders will be on their own. .In order to win elections, they will have to work ' hard and start listenjng . to . t~e people. If they can do this, they can begin to compete with the Democrats for the title of \the party of the people.\ berk. ~ontemplates sabbatical studies Secondly, defeat should rnak~ . the party's brain trust \reaHze · once and for all that a statewide candidate has t() have 9. very broad appeal. Malcolm Wilson is a rock-ribbed <;onservative who harps on the ·upstate-downstate dichotomy - in short, his appeal by JUDY DEIN Learning does not end the minute one graduates frorn school. And despite the popular belief of many students that their professors know everything there is to know about their special fields, even professors continue to study topics in which they are interested long after they receive their last diploma. For example, St€phen M. Berk, Associate Professor of History here at Union, is planning on spending the next school year; 1975-76, on a sabbatical leave. He will research one of..two topics, either 'The Year 1881-1882 in the History of Russian Jewry,\ or 'The Eastern Front 1918.\ The year 1881-1882 is very significant in the history of Russian Jewry, as it serve.s as a transition point. Prior to 1881 the trend among Jews was towards total Russification, a blending into Russian society. However, following the pogr.oms of 1881-82 the philosophy of the Jewish intelligentsia anq ·general population changed. l11stead of advocating assimilation, the Russian Jews supported policies stressing religious, ethnic and national rights of Jews. Zionisrn began as a formidable· movement at this time, as did emigration to North America and the struggle for the rights of Jews to live as Jews in Russia. , While studying this period, . Profes.sor Berk will also investigate the origins of anti· Semitism, the causes of pogroms, and the use of a i1ti-Semitism as a political weapon. The topic \ihe Eastern Front 1918\ concerns itself with the Russian Civil War one year after the October Revolution. Professor Berk hopes to study all is as narrow as his necktie. the anti-Bolshevik movements of Future candi4,ates must be. able. this time,. and the relatioi).s to capture a respectable share of among these movements. He New York City's Democrats and feels that . the struggle that the independents by taking moderate- Bolsheviks faced on the Eastern to•liberal issue positions.They will front had a great impact on also have to inject a little pizzazz Bolshevik policies. The into their campaigns. They can't Bolsheviks were forced to change run on their \years of experience their thinking concerning the. in govern10ent;\ such a pitch military organization of the ·Red might be adequate in a race for army, the political education of county clerk, but not for soldiers, the relationship between governor of New York. the party and the army, and the • The test will -come in 1976, Bolshevik general military when Senator Buckley is up for strategy. ..re~election; If the .party m.en have Professor Berk also contends learned anything, they will try to that. 1918 was a crucial year for persuade Buckley to step down. the Bolshevik party; He feels that As good a legislator as he might the lessons that the Party learned be, he simply caJ;J't win a two- at this time ·enabled them to win man contest. His election in 1970 the Civil War. was a fluke caused by the Professor Berk is not as yet Goodell-Ottinger split in the sure as to which topic of study he liberal vote, a situation not likely will pursue, It is also not definite to reoccur. 1 f the p.arty as to whether he will fake· off a nominates an attractive liberal full year to do his research, or candidate, they might have a only winter and spring terms. chance. .~--~~~---~~-----~--~~~--~- Anriual report filed with the Post Office for second class mail privileJ'eS includes the following data: This newspaper is CONCORDIENSIS, printed for and by the students at Unicn College in Schenectady. It is printed weekly through the school year, on Wednesday evenings. The office Of publication is the Student Activities Office at Union College in Schenectady, N.Y., 12308. The business office ·is in the Student Activities Building. P11blisher is Mrs. Lorraine M-arra, at the Student Activities Office at U nio11 College in Scheneeta!fy, N.Y., 12308. Editor js R~bert Mondschei11, Box 232, Union College, · Schenectady, N.Y., 12308. The Mumigihg Editor is Chris O'Connor~ Box 234, · Uriion College, Schenectady, N,Y ., 12308. The newspaper is owned by Union College. . ClRCULA TION REcORD EXTENT & NATURE OF\' CIRCULATION TOTAL PRESS RUN PAID CIRCULATION MAIL SU.J)SCRIPTIONS TOTAL PAID CIRCULATION FREE DiST. B\i MAIL, ETC. COPIES TO NEWS AGENTS TOTALDIST. OFFICE USE, LEFT OVER TOTAL Avf!. Last 12 months 2200 1700 300 20()0 150 00 2150 .50 ~zoo Actu{tl Oct. 30 2200 1700 300. 2000 iSO 00 2150 so 2200 \ t I e \' a .is g. 0 rr le (l H a ir le A (')I a C< u: a-1 c f( I~ ti- pi ta fi a< e~ ul C< t~ ~~ h; tv m C( (s' a< g~ $~ re A 11f w ht lu ar 111 lo pt d~ in B, D P1 ('; cc sit re de s ac Ill -

- CONCORDIENSJS, Wednesday, Oct. 3(), 1974 Nott Memorial Renovation the passage of tirne and the encroachment of the ivy. These will require extensive replacement and repair. A more serious threat is posed by ·the uncontrolled growth of ivy on the walls. of the building. Ivy roots seek out mortar joints and penetrate them, leaving areas open to the passage of water. Repeated attempts at Fepait have been unsatisfactory, and the continued entry of water into the masonry of the walls can lead to the d'islodging of stones. A !though this has not yet (lCCUred, it eventually take place if a ct i o n is n ot t a ken . Plan of Action In order to ensure the continued existence and usefulness of N ott Memorial, architects Mendel, Mesi~;:k and Cohen have presented a recommended plan of action in their report. In undertaking t,his, they calculated the cost of repairs necessary to ens'ure Nott Memorial's continued existence, and also reviewed varia us proposals for its future use. After taking into account the practical, financial, and architectural advantages and disadvantages of each, they recommended that ultimately Nott Memoria.) should contain: the financial aid office in the basement (presently housing the college bookstore); a meeting hall seating three hundred and twenty-five on the first floor; an exhibition gallety display Union memorabilia and various collections on the lower gallery (second floor); and 1J nion's admissions office on the upper gallery. It was estimated that $500,000 would be necessary to restore the 'skin' of the building. A further $400;000 would be needed to restore the interior, while still another $900,000 would he required to adapt the Nott fer further use as envisioned by the architects. Thus a total of 1 •. 8 million dollars would be needed for the entire project. Since the publication of the report, further damage and inflation have increased the proposed costs. Earlier this year, President Bonner appointed Union's Director of Publications and Public Relations, Mr. Bernard Carman, as chairman of a committee created to assess the situation, using the architectural report as the factual basis for decision-making. Composed of . students, faculty members, and administrators, this ad hoc group must consider three major SHOP ON JAY STREET For} Your Mind Body Soul THE OPEN DOOR BOOK SHOP THE COUNTRY KITCHEN THE OTHER SIDE OF.TODAY 135, 136, 137 Jay Street Open Tues,-Sats. PETER PAUSE RESTAURANT ,''Student Discount\ Mon.-Sat. 5:30-7:30 535 NOTT ST. \ questions before making its report to the Board of Trustees in January. According to Bernard Carman, one of the tasks which the committee faces is the assessment of the impact which future developments will have upon Uni.oii.'s drama program. lhe architectural report p.oints to the construction of sets and storage of material on upper floors as sources of damage to Nott Memorial. In light of this they recommend the removal of the theater from the building. This will necessarily have to take place irrespective of the decision which Union makes regarding Nott Memorial. For if restoration is undertaken, the building wiH of course have to be evacuated. On the other hand, if Union does not attempt to save Nott Memorial, its evacuation for safety reasons will ultimately be required. Further, for both practical and architectural reasons, the architects have recommended that Nott Memorial not be used as a· theater subsequent to its· restoration. Therefore, it seems reasonable to conclude that Union's already mistreated drama program will shortly be in need of a new home. Serious consideration of possible solutions to this problem is just the first difficulty with which the Committee on Nott Memorial and the college, must wrestle. Money Needed A second task which the committee faces is the exploration of financial sources to which the coJJege mi.ght turn once restoration plans have been made. Although the Nott Memorial has been placed on the National TYPING Reasonable Rates Fast Service 393-2233 Newest Lunch 715 ALBANY ST. The oidest lunch in the area. More than SO years we serve First · P.rize hot dogs with the original famous sauce. Also different special dinners everyday. We are open 7 days a week - weekend til• 4. Visit Newest Lunch. Good ola,ce to Eat. Register of Historic P.laces, the amount of federal aid which might therefore be O\btained for its preservation is small. The possible existence of historical organiz;ttions interested in aiding the restoration of archtiecturally significant tmHdings like N ott Memorial cannot · however be discoun·ted, and must be investigated. The search for funds must wait upon the decision to acturaHy begin Nott Memorial's restoration. Public Opinion Important I he final task that the Commit- tee on Nott Memorial must com- plete is the evaluation of campus sentiment concerni<ng N ott Memorial and possible programs to save it, The asumption here is that alumni opinio11 is strongly in favor of plans to restore the building, but that contributions made on behalf of this venture will reduce those monies available for other college programs. The Cofllmittee is interested in finding out how important the continued existence of Nott Memorial is to ~tudents, faculty, and ·tdm inistrators, keeping in mind that inaction will result in the huilcling's destruction, and that restoration will divert funds from college programs elsewhere. ~In order to gain an idea of student feelings on the issue, tRe committee has prepared a short questionaire that· stuclents will receive along with their pre- registration material for winter term. In the meantime, Mr. Carman urges students to look more deeply into the matter, and copies of tti'e- architectural report are available in the library for this purpose. Steering Committee The first order of business was the question of granting club status to the organization, \When Diplomacy Fails,~' a war game group. John Dolan was in favor of granting club status to the group because it wouldn't cost the .Student Government anything and a good number of persons had shown interest. President Broomes then proposed that club status be granted but that this recognition should in no way be construed as a commitment of room ot money. This passed unanimously. !'he Steering Committee then dealt WI,th the issue of budgeting Linebacker. Bill Talis of the Tax Committee claimed that a cutback in Linebacker's budget would not hurt the effectiveness of Linebacker. He stated that last vear Linebacker cost $1100, but that if it was put on reserve in the library instead of being printed in the Concordy it would cost only $775. Hrian Tucke.r proposed that we allow .the Tax Committee and !.ester Feintuck of Linebacker establish a hudget thrc)ugh compromise. This motion was passed unanimously. I he next meeting will he in Richmotld on Monday, \ovcmhcr II. 1974 at 7:00 pm. PACKAGE HANDLING Part-time Employment Male or Female . 5 Days a Week, 4 Hrs. a Day Eve. hrs. $3.80 per hr. CONTACT UNITED PARCEL SERVICE Avis Drive, Latham! 738-0700 , , pr Mr : Marras, Student Aid ' . ' , Ladies and Gentlemen! The Mountebanks~ Union College's own Student Theater Organization, which for years has brought nothing but the finest in theater to the campus, are now celebrating their 54th stu;pendous season. The opening production of this epocl1.-making year will be the Annual Freshman Production. This year the freshman cast and crew will present the Pulitzer Prize winner of 1936, \You Can't Take It With You,\ by· Moss. Hart and George S. Kaufman. It :is a zarty; nostalgic play with a lot to say to everyone. It will open November 8 at 8:00 in (where else) the Nott Memorial . . ,./-,.,' Theatre. It will run the 9th~ lOth, 13th, 14th, 15th, and 16th of November. The box office is opened every d~y from 1:30 to 5:30 and the phone number is 370·6153.,,JiY · . - '. ...,._. George, there is no better way to celebrate the Mountebanks' 54th birthday than to call that box office right now and get reservations. You may not be able to take it with you. but you .can sure enjoy it while you can.· :::~:::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::~:::::::::::::::::::::;;:: .... FIRST ···· ..... . .•. :::: :::: :::: :::: :·:· AT ... , .... ·=·~ Continued from Page I .· ~l~l A RN 0 W, S ~~~l have been overwhelmingly :::: • •· :::: tlppos.ed to the abolition of ==== , , D OW·.N ===: :·:· :·:· squatters rights. Both Kilgus and :::: :;:: Smith emphasized that this ;:;: ;:;: program would not be effected ·:·: TO ::;: e~gainst such opposition. ~m . · ~;~~ rhe alternative proposal 1 nder :=~=- :::: consideration is a prefer ·ntial ; •• ·~.j:l·; NAT U· R' E' '· · .. =; .. ~;i .. plan whereby students list their ... .._ .... room and roommate prefer !nces ·•·· · . ·:·· :;:: ' :::! in order; and any contlic. .. s of .. •••• preference are resolved randomly. ~~~j Shoes By ~ill The entire system would be :::: Rost'ta· :::: p r o gram m e d o n U n i o n 's :::: :::: computer racitities. :::: of Canada :::: ~r.J~E'.l~~~!'2~E'.l~!'.:I!'.:I~!'.:II'J~!'.:IE;n~f':lr.l~. ~~~~.\ L . k. w\ \ . lk. ~~~I ~ An ad hoc committee to .~ :::: 1 e a Ing :::: ~·examine the tenurability of § ;:;: Q S d\ :::: S t> R 0 F E S S 0 R A N T 0 N § ;:;! ll an . ;i;l ~WARDE has been formed. ~ ;:;: :~:; ~ The committee invites § :::: 24.95 ;:;:, 1§1 members of the College § ~:;: ;~;; S community to submit written ~ :;:: :::: ~evaluations of Professor ~ ::;: :::; 1§1 Warde to Stephen M. Berk of~ !l!~ ~!~! li:':l the Department of His tory. § ;:;: :;:; ~ ~~ ~ ~· * * * * ~. ~:·: :-:· li:':l ' I f t h P I S • ~ !;!; :;:: .~ J•rof. Dame s o e o , c1 ~ :::: ;:;: § l>epartment is now chairman ~· ;:;: :;:; §of Professor Ludwig's ad hoc ~ :;;j .1:;: ~Committee. Letters may be ~ ;:;: :::: !§!submitted. to any member of§ ;i;i 1;~1 §the commattee. . , .~. :::: :::! ~ Professor Bittlemen, Art ~ ;:;: :;:; ·~ J> r o f.e s s o r P e t e r s o n , ~ :;:; ;:;: 1>3l~hilosophy ·~ !;!; ~~ ;:;: !§! i>rofessor Schick, Physics ~ ~!l! . · · :;:~ ~~f!dr.li':.:lP2~eJ!':d!2~!'2!'2!'2!'2!'J~i':.:lE'.li':.:ll'2l'A~ ;:;: . . :::: ;!;! . S OElS !:!: .... ·:·: :::: :::: :::: 408 State St. ;:;: •o•, ,•.,'1 ;:~: ''Downtown:t)' :~:j ~ . ~ :::: Schenectady :::: ::: ~- •••••• • ••••••••••• ·.~ ••••••••••••••••••••••••••• - ••••••••• ~ ......... !·· :: .............. •.• .. • .. • .. •.•.•.•.• .. • .. • .. • .. •.• .. •.•.•.•.•.•,•.- .. •.•.• .. ·.·········~··' l·~-·· ~f ~'<lv·-~t'-~_, , ... ,.,;.•~

I :,. I I' I, • . I • \ Page4 CONCOJ!:f21_ENS!S, Wednesday, Oct. $0, 1974 -------------------------------.------------~ Professor David Reece has been appointed to the Frank Baily Greek; Latin and Ancient Language Chair. Reece had received one of the three chairs that have been endowed by the Bailey fam.ily.The othertwo chairs are the Marie Louise Bailey Professor of Mathematics and the Frank and Marie Louise Bailey Professor of Physics. frank Bailey was a member of the class of 1895. He became Union's treasurer in 1901 a1nd soon set Union's financial future on stable ground. He raised the endowme.nt from· app.roximately $4()0,000 in 1901 to over $7 million in 1946. The Frank Bailey Chair is another mark of the devotion the Bailey family has shown toward Union· College. The Bailey chair aside from being a great honor consists of a large endowment of money which ·is invested and whose dividends and interest pays for that particular professor's salary. It is a position held for life. · Professor Reece will give an Inaugural Lecture in November and has agreed t·o invite all those interested . in attending. The lec~ure is entitled: \Tht Modern World and Classical Studies.\ It will be given Tuesday, November 12, a.t 8:00 pm in Strauss Lounge. Provost Enteman has sent a memorandum to ··students and faculty urging the1n to attend this thought provoking lecture. Watsons Nominated Union College's Watson Fellowship Committee announced Monday, October 30, its four choices for who would represent Union in this nationaHy, sporiso.red program. The fellowship is an honor and consists of a grant of several thousand dollars for a student to study for a year a topic that will enrich his life. Those nominated are: Robert Cable, to study the children and culture of Zaire, Africa; Debbie Frank, to study D.H. Lawrence in England; Jayne Weiner, to study Tai-Chi-Ciiuan in Taiwan; and Jim Heiler, violin-making in Europe. Union's four nominations will be sent to the Watson Foundati.on to compete with students of 35 colleges across the nation for 70 grants. The four il.ominations were selected from twenty-six proposals submitted by Union students. A nnmmcements of the Watson Fellowship grants will be made on March 15, 1975. Volunteers Needed The Union College Cabaret once again makes campus entertainment history. Last Thursday, for the first time in a long time, members of the faculty performed at the Cabaret. ,~n particular the performers were Professor LeClerc and Professor Wilson, and they gave a show which will not soon be.forgotten. The parents and teaching staff transporting of volunteers to the of the Washington Irving Open school. School, located at 418 Mumford l'he following is a list of some Street in Sc-henectady, need of the interests of the pupils: volunteers m'ornings between 9 singing, listening to the piano and am and 11:30 am during the other instruments, dancing, all activity time and afternoons forms of art, creating their own (except Tuesdays) between 12 plays, woodworking, astrology, noon and 2:30 pm during the chemistry, the three r's, biology, yuiet time devoted to the exercise classes, learning a foreign development of specia·l interests language, etc. Dave Lederkrai:ner and Howard Grossberg opened both shows with some incidental piano. Then Professor· LeClerc came on stage. Any doubts that French poetry would be of no interest to people who did onot speak French were dispelled, as LeClerc explained the mood and the situation of each poem, and read them with a melodious voice which almost made one feel that one understood the l:;~.nguage (if one did not}. and basic ski lis. Students with a hi' '~C2.!i2225<!525252!ii!225i!m'm!i2225i~ sincere interest in working with pupils enrolled in Kindergarten through sixth grade and who would enjoy working in the school's informal open education classrooms as regularly as possible may contact Mrs. Pat Fida-lgo at 346-8526. It may be possible to arrange for the ACE CARDS & GIFTS 175 JAY STREET (off State) COME SEE OUR VARIETY OF ANY OCCASION AND HOLIDAY CARDS. Levt:.s This Sat. & Sun. THE FILM COMMITTEE PRESENTS \THE FRENCH CONNECTION\ at 7, 9 & 11 50¢ On FridaY., November I, 9:30 · A·,M.-12:00 noon, Dean John Gaubatz of Case- Western Reserve Law School will be in Prof. Board's office in the Political Science Department fot the purpose of interviewing prospective i applicants. Hugh Allan Wilson then made a grand entrance, and with intermittent jibes at Howie Come in and let us help· you to get in the right spirits to go and chEJer the football team to a victory over Williams. STOP IN AT: Moffett's Liquor Store 1505 VANVRANKEN AVE. SCHENECTADY. N.Y. l2308 Keep your feet as snug as a bug in a rug in these super shaggy Moppet slippers. Great for ma.king late night trips ftom one side of the dorm to the other without feeling the chill of winter. AVAILABLE AT Junior Bootery 147 JAY ST. SCHENECTADY Remember you get $1.00 off on every purchase when you let us know you're from Union. Grossberg, played a lively and in- tune harpsichord. Prof. Wilson _ played pieces by Rameau, Scarlatti and old JS himself. Not to mention Scott Joplin. Both performers chose works which were lyrical and self- explanatory and no one felt out of his· league. Bob Field played incidental guitar for the second show. Never let it be said .that Cabaret does not appeal to all tastes. For the lowbrows, there ·were Walt Disney cartoons, including one in which Donald Duck lets loose with some language that none of us heard when we were kids. This week the Cabaret is going wild. First of all, everyone who comes is expected to wear a costume. After all, it will be Halloween. Prizes will be given for the best costumes in both shows. The shows will begin at 8:00 and 10:30 {the first show is always less crowded than the second show. Please get to the first show if you can). Both shows will include Dave Lederkramer, Todd Cavalier and group, Mary Vetterling on piano, the Radio Acrobats, a film by Robert Moorhead with music by Professor Waters, and Judy Kottke and Barb Fraser. The second show will be 'identical except that Woody Schumacher will play _in place of the Radio Acrobats. So put oh fhat costume and come! . KIT'S A ~._r;HOCKER liKE YOU'VE NEVER SEEN BEFORE. DELICIOUSLY GROTESQUE A Thinking Man's 'Mark of the Devil'! A new concept in the macabre irtwhich the Good come out of the grave and the Evil ate sent to fill the vacancy; Paramount Pictures presents a uantam castle proouctmn marcel marceau'\ ~-\' ·~ p\ilippe clay tsilla cltelton ·~··\'\\'\' atexnort1t ~'\'\., nlRild tp'llltam ~-,..-~ produced by steven no.nlt directed by W'illtam castte 1/ ..,~ PG PAIOO .. AlliUIIlAMGHU~G.EmD•O mc;olor a par~mbunt picturej \,;:!.n .. \\3..1 SOMt M~T£111AL MAY HOT'Vl sun~Bl£ rOll PR£ HtH,t,C£Rs L . . . \ ·NOW •1: SHOWING·· WE DEFY YOU .TO TELL US IF HE'S REALLY DEAD! CINE 1•2•3•4 • CINEMA GLENRJDGE no. E. GLENVILLE PH. 399-9696 NORTHWAY MALL COWNIE PH. 459·83011

the racist too it is r why the th(!t beans. o start if the to merely we hocks ed or 3 salty with with green n cold cleanse leaves tender, place juice h salt, e. ham r with a half just so that om. himself the testing At child to look child and Psyche Y_ou 242. Cente'r CONCORDJENSJS, Jt:ednesd~y, 'Qci, 30. 1974 .· - . .. - . - .. P(lge5 Mid - Term Plight BLITHER ''Sounds like a cold front blow in in,\ says Boog as. he circles his desk like a dog sniffing a. lamppost. \Grruussshhhh!\ burps the coffee perco·J~tor in agreement. The ,phone rings, causing Zeke to chOke on his mung beans. ''Goose Hill Pizza Parlor,\ he growls, \What? Whd'L.Sam??!\ he screams, \Y oli've got to 'be kidding.me. Wha·t the hell kind of · Aeighbo.rhood do you :tltitrk this is, ;myway? I wouldn't let someone named Sam live hete if he was IT\Y father. One mote call like this, Buckamo, and I'm g:onna send Spatz and the boys nver to have a little d\at . , . .. , - w1t chas. He slams.down the phone w.ith a snafl and a sardonic cackle. · \That was for me, wasn't it,\ I glare, ''That's the third time this week. You really ate crazy.\ b,y SAM IIUGHES Tree\ and hoogy aH night. Hey, remember last ye(!'f When that waitress chaUenged you to step outside and l}gnt?\ I pale slightly at the thought. 'She pmbably could haye crushed my spleen. \Why don't we t;(.y Lum Fung's'!\ 'I. suggest hopefully. \What are you, anyway, some kind. of Maoist?\ snaps Zeke, \Besides it's Closed.\ ''How about fhe. Skellar?\ I can feel desper.ation slithering into my voice. He sends me a withering stare, 'like Boris Karloff in The Mummy. \The last time I went in there they played \Make It hmky\ three times in, a row. Do you have any idea what that sor.t of thing Hillel Spon,sors . does to the brain cells!?! I was standing at the ba.r with a bottle c'lf Schlitz, talking c;:almly with the nicest .pair of j'ugs you ever saw, and the next thing I knew I was wandering around: in front of the Cmlonie Art Center, liviing off roots and berries a,nd preaching the words of Sri Darwin Gt:oss to anyone who wold listen. Can you imagine trying to expla·in that to the Schenectady Board of Mental Health'??'' S.o much for the Skellar. \Want to do up the rest of that Columbia;n?\ asks Zeke in a meek whisper. \But what a:()out Crosstown?\ \Yeh well, What about ymu Sartre paper.\ \Good. P'Oint. Got any matches'!\ Anyone who is inteFested in military boardgame simulations {such as Diplomacy, Avalon Hill or Strategy and Tactics), and is interested in meeting other people who share this fanaticism should contact Jim Garafola, 420 West, Mike Alexander, Phi Delta Theta, or Chuck Holleman, 102 Potter. We are on the lookout for more allies so we can organize a group at Union. * * * * Seniors who are submitting their own 3!4 x 5 black and white .gl'ossy for the senior section - please get your pictures in by December 2. Put your picture in a sealed envelope (with your name on the envelope) and put it into the Union Book box in the Student Activities Office. * * * * Seniors - If you can write down a few adjectives or sentences that summarize your thoughts and feelings during orientation week of your freshman year, please type or print your thoughts and drop them off in the Union Book. box in the Student Activities Office. Nothing verbose. (You don't even have to sign your name to your thoughts.) Please submit no later th[m November 22. * * * * A·n ad hot: committee has been formed to evaluate Professor David Stineback for promotion and tenure at Union College. The committee invites all members of the Union community to submit written evaluations of Professor Stineback to Erik Han~en of the History Department. \Eat tny skivvies,\ he gurgles thro.ugb the remnants of his mung beans. I sdgh and ,quirt some ·more wine into be chile. The percolator reaches orgastti with a final obsce:ne., groaning gurgie. I p0ur myself another cup and resume thrashing at the typewriter. ·Guest Lecturer * * * * There will be a meeting for all students in the Camp Ed project State Legislature in Action to discuss criteria for admissions and course requirements. It will b~t held in SS 115 at 4:30 on November 7. A fiery :burst of flatulence sends Boog's trousets sC0oting down to his ankles. ''Gbddam kidn~y beans,\ he mutters as he returns them to their customary roost with the helt six im;:hes above the navel ''Enough to knock a buzzard off a ~hit wagon at thirty paces.\ \Let's drive down to The Cit:Y lor a Chinese breakfast!\ yells Zeke. · 1 calmly suggest that if he were to strain his beard and bottle the conte:nts they'd give him a chefs 1ob on the spot. A 2!;2 lb. jar of Patton's Buckwheat Honey flies rast my nose like a drunken hummingb'i.rd and exp·lodes against the walL .1 clap my hands delightedly. \That's it!!\ 1. shout. He looks at me questioningly, \That's what'?\ \Don't you see'!!!\ I shriek, \'When the honey stops dripping we can frame it with the broken glass arid we won't have to-spend ten bucks at The Other Side of I oday for one of their tapestries. He beams like a man who's \\ ife has just given birth to a seven pound baby boy. \'Why don:'t we hit Crosstown Diner instead?\ sug.gests Boog as he plops on an Orneetc;r Coleman 1·ecord. Zeke and I both jump up at once and start da:nc'ing the Funky I ractor. \Yes!!!\ screams Zeke, \The derelicts are just starting to pile m. We can listen to 'Tie A Yellow Ribbon 'RoUnd The Old Oak Union College Hille.! will sponsor the second in its series of guest lecturers, o,n Tuesday November 5, in room 016 of the Social Sciences Building. The guest •. speaker will be Profe!)sor Emil L Fackenheim, Professo-r of Philosophy at the University of Toronto .. Acclaimed as ott~ of the foremost Jewish philosophers of our time, Professor Fackenheim is ,the author of six books and more t;han 125 articles and reviews, mostly in medieval Arabic and Jew.ish philosophy, modern Getman philosophy, and Jewish l'eligious thought. Professor Fackenheim win deliver two lectures, ohe at 12:30 pm, and the other at 8:30pm. The l'opic of the afternoon lecture will be 'God's, presence i:n , History', which is the subject matter o.fone of his books, entitled God's Presence in History: Jewish Affirmations ;md Philosophical Reflections .. · This hook, published in 1970., is one of the Harper I otchbookS .series. The evening lecture will deal with \Judaism in an Epic Making Period: Ema.ncipa tion, Holocaust, Jsrael.\ Both lectures promise to he very timely and stimulating. The lectures are open to everyone in the Union community, as well as to the general public. Ther.e is no charge lor either I ect ure, and refreshments will he served following the evening lecture. e..-J;.,;;§·a··., :. ·· difference!!! -:. .-. ·.· e - · ·. · .,. Ov~ 35 Vl'!Jfl e : ~£-· MREC :aJ·. :::::=·. . : The Internati()nal Rela (ions: . : _ · ft ... Volumino 111 home • Club and The arotbers of Phi • aaw· Stllcly matet Jls .: Delta Theta Present \A ·Talk e ltl Coilr~~sthataA e · on the Cyprus lssu~\ with : . LS ..... conltlntlv u~Q!~i'i • Professt>r T.heofanis Stavrou e . · .It I Small t~ . : of The University of • . ~R·E Brooklyntentlf • Mimiesot;t on Wednesday, .. · : U . · < 0 P•nd•vs,tvtnill9' • .• .ATMSB·· 1111d -k•nds : November 6, 1974, 7:30 p.m. · e IIIU Cpmplptt tape • at· Phi Delta Theta Fraternity . e· . a· . c· ,., ~·· flc!lities for e 7 5 l R d ) · • · · · '*'\IWI of cla.s • (. U · · \ e n ° x ' e · · . · · tessonsanillor use e A Halloween ' Special! THE FILM COMMITTEE' PRESENTS 5 'SPIRITS OF THE DEAD'' at ,s, 10 & 12 25¢. : CPAJ •ofsu~pleme'ltilry : •. · · ... ·· . matenals • : FlEX Make·UIJi h: e ..- . . . m•ssed l~ssor,s • t ECFYG at our Jrciohlyn : e . . 1ft . center . • : NIJ'l MEDBDS : : THOUSANDS •·fi~tE : : RAISEDTHE.A S!;.9RES : • Btancn. •n IIIMtropolit,ltn A-.a • !iii~· t EllUCKnCJIW,. a.Ntat LT•J, . e • TEST I'AEP\'II~TIO~ · • e Si'£CI-,LISTS SINC:hil31 · . • : . .c.ll 1212) 331-S::'G'•' . J • 15111531-..1.&1 .. $· .~. f20•Jt ~;;' -1770 • t~t: 1675 Ellit 16tt• S11 itit ~ Bklyn, N. V. 1m.~ •• . ··········~·· .·· University of Toronto Professor E. L. Fackenheim •i * * * * Keys Lost: Steve Robey, 218 Davidson (370-6590) has lost 8 keys. The keys were lost on the library wall in front of West College, near the flagpole on Friday, October 25. If found, please return keys to housing. * * * * Art Department Exhibition and Sale of original Oriental art: Wednesday, November 6 from 10 to 6. * * * * Anyone interested (including upperclassmen) in hanging and focusing lights for the Freshmen play, \You Can't Take It With You,\ should come to the theater this Thursday, Oct. 31st at 10 p.m. for the first crew work session. Call the theater at 6151 if you're interested but cannot make it; there will be more crew work in the future. . * * * * There will be a Women's Caucus meeting on Monday, October 28. Women administration and faculty will he invited to discuss the problems of hiring women at Union College .. All ate welcome. ,_1, * \* * * To whom it may concern: There is currently a postal strike iq France which prevents cpmmunication with Union's term abroad stude~ts: theFe. lbl hiJ •inlll! 11 PM to 8 AM daily. CaU anywhere in the country for 35¢ or less or anywhere in New York State for 25¢ or less. Each additional minute costs 20¢ or less. These rates apply to station-to-station calls you dial your- self, to anywhere in the U.S. except Alaska & Hawaii. Tax not included. @New York Telephone

I 1 i; I l I I <I ! I : ~ 1 : I I I I i '' I ! 1 i I ! :~I '· I I I ! ' : i 'i Page6 CONCORDIENSJS, Wednesday, Oct. 30, 1974 and talk in an open, relaxed atmosphere would be more to t'he point. My role .as_ repn:st:ntative Freshmen \HIUid he as a vehide of the community. My time is at their disposal, as I feel tha1 to be the only efficient way to organize our desires. I can't overemphasize the importance of a good social atmosphere and a more comfortable a:c~tdemic atmosphere. Only at a school Elections: ·where students and professors are trying to achieve the same types of goals is everyone happy. And if I can be of some service to my colleagues in this way it will help me to feel an integral part of the Union community just as Union is an .integral part of the greater community. Candidates Statements Sue Draper Get out and vote! That's the most important pdority. Apathy is an easy habit to fall into, even at the very start. Student government is our medium ... so use it. Personally, I am interested in becoming involved in student government because it strikes me as one of the most effective ways of learning about the situation here at Union. ·f cannot sincerely make any stands on any present issues - I just haven't been here long enough to really feel as if I know what I'm talking about. My only \platform\ is that I will be both responsive and resp0nsible. I have held previous \leadership\ ·roles, but as all of us, they were on a totally different level. I'm only interested in representing you, as freshmen, not in crusading around, changing the world. In this respect, 1 would always be open to talking to any Bob Dickerman I came to Union College with much the same attitude as many freshmen, one of anticipation and anxiety. It was thus a great source of pleasure to me to discover so many warmhearted, bright and motivated people on campus. I see Union as a sort of small village with great potentials for relating to people with a sincerity not found elsewhere. But, as at many colleges, most of the interests are so individualized and diverse that these potentials are often not realized in daily life. What I would like to do as Steering Committee Representative is p-rovide a focal point for these various interests and concerns. This position \\Ol!ld allow me to consensus feelings on a personal basis - sometimes by \isiting rooms to ask an opinion, sometimes by talking in the lunch line. Hut basically, I would like to he a servant of the population to a !low the freshman class to meet their needs and to have their ideas 1ustly represented at Steering { ·ommittee meetings: freshman about any concerns. 1f there are' anY burning issues you'd like to bring up, ideas of what a Freshman Rep. s_hould be like, or if you're just bopping by - come see me in Room 204 Richmond .. I really do want to meet aU the freshmen, regardless of · any election. LA intricacies and issues lacing the Steering Committee. :So it would he pointless for me to announce my platform on the issues in this letter. H owevet, one · of my su hject ive concerns is the restructuring of the concept of the \student center\. At present ( ·arnegie Hall is not serving that !unction properly. I he type of Sheri Oka I've been sitting here for fifteen minutes trying to find an appropriate ·way to begin this statement. It would be so much easier for you to get to know about me if I could just talk to you all personally, but unfortunately time prohibits that. If you'd ask me why I'm running for freshman representative to the Steering Committee; I'd probably start hy saying that I want very much to find out what problems Union's students face here, and to be Instrumental in helping to solve them. In the relatively short time I've been here, I've noticed several things that I think need changing, and I have my own ideas as to just what L think should be done, but that is not the job of a class representative; i.e. to decide on his or her own what the problems and their solutions are. The job, on the contrary, involves seeking out the opinions and feelings of fellow classmates as to the problems that exist, and to present the general consensus to the committee. This is the only way in which one can be truly a \representative\ for their class, and this is the opportunity I'm l1.oping to be given. FOR LIQUOR AND WINE Try Jake Lipstein's 464 State Street FR4-t888 As a freshman I am olwiously not tully aware of the many ~ituation where students can meet . 0 . lll':ii!P.S-.;;;ij~j;;·· •JII!li-il=iiil=lli;IIIIIIP=Iii!\i!i LUIGI'S RESTAURANt SPECIALIZING IN Italian - American Food '1125 BARRETT ST. SCHENECTADY 016-97 44 : . t ALL IN THE ·: FAMILY 123 JAY ST. Kitchen Open 11:30 A.M.-10 P.M. Bud on Draft ·Enjoy Sizzling Steaks anf:l Chop., . Vi/It Our C()(:/ctoil Bat · . ..... 346-9635 ~ . ...: · . ,,, __ L! .!!!=!lliiiMI!IIIillllldl!tal!!!!!l!ll!~ilrdll!ld' Pete Elkin ( ·oncern is t:he :key \\ ord in this decti on. C 'onn r n for the s t'ude nt hody, concern tor the t.reshman class,. and concern for the state of go:vernme.nt at Union are the points whiCh should concern us most when deciding on which candidate to choose to represent vou come N m'ember fifth. · Since tile Steering Comm~ittee is the voice of the students, a general euncern for the student body is necessary. As a freshman class representative, a specific concern for our class is necessary. Since the freshman class is the largest chtss in the school it is. the hardest to represent. A freshman rep. must have enough con<;ern 't)r the class to get a wide-spread outce of opin·ion from the class 10 matt~r how much work it :ntails, in C')rder to make his or her vote trudy representative o•f the class of '78. Lastly, I see a large need for improvernelit in t'he student government. G0vernment a$ I have seen it 1s not working efficiently . in getting student ()pinion C()Otdinated With the processes of its representative Mike Ganz It is very difficult to sell oneself to appeal to students without running the risk of being seen as immodest. But with such a large field to c:hc>Ose from and lack of pertinent issues there seems no other course.! W\ill state the most importallt t) ffices thaJ. l have held without any comment on them and let you decide; first I was class president, Board of Education Representative twice, mode I Congress Chairman, Citizens~ip Club President and Vice-President and Student- Faculty Advisor. I think t-hat I have the background, qualifications that would justiiy voting for me. The issues that will arise during the vear will b~ handled with care and )udicious handling. I want to Steven Lapidus Hello, my name is Steven Lapidus and I am running for Steering Committee. In this short statement it would be silly for me to make sweeping promises that I cannot k<:ep .. Instead, I would like to dwell on some of the things that can be done and some of the things tl'lat I will try to do. Many Jleople claim that the Steering Committee is engrossed in trivialities. While this may be the case, it doesn't necessarily have to be. In truth, there are a number of important issues that need to_ be looked into. These include the .lighting. situation on campus, the possible revision of the c.ale11dar, and whether or not the dog regulations that were passed last term are work.ing. I he Steering Committee also has tretnendom power financially. I his is the body that allocates the student activity fees, (the twenty- live ddlla:r fee that everyone pays he fore eac·h term) to the cliffcrent :-.tudent organizations on campus. I he comtn ittee Is concerned with a very large amount -of money. In tact. it is almost one-hundred thousand dollms of the student's money. Cc rta inly one can see that these arc not trivial matters. My [Jiatform, simply. is this. If 'Serving Union For Three Generations' •t-6i J•y St. • ~Oir lf,IRC:lll ~r\it.:t .·'\....!. Citiod .JtweiP)· bod-y. l mprovernent now would ra·ise the student government of Union out of a state where lack of respect and cooperation has p'laced the student government into a limbo with. respect to serving the students. El~ct Pete Elkin fot your Freshman representative to the Steering Committee. represent everyone - though it sounds difficult. I want everyone to participate in the voting even if their vote will not be for me. elected, 1 will try to keep ~he steering Committ~e fron: ~e!t~ng hogged down . m tnvtahttes, hecause when this happens, the student's. real interests suffer. l will always try to kee~ the Steering Committee's attentwn on the important iss~es both linancia lly and otherwtse. I need vour heip in this task. I hope to he a channel for freshman tdcas. to the Steering Committee. It elected, I shall always remember, who 1 am responsible to - the lrcshman class. 1-inally. 1 would like to make < ·ontiti.ucd on Page 7 - one preft opp' vote as \' a gt pow stud If that I liv< my lha two c l.ec Con the com Al d iffi, tell : need this, on r I: 'tud in ell \ ari 2) lor he ~ ~ and awa to blo awa ·this 1- 111< will dor trat pur ~ tw stu1 pic pee nr anc heli to the ret tmr ('ol tha IO\\ I h1 'UIJ lor Ill a ··v (

of of as nt to it the pg ies, the .. 1 the non both need to idem; II mber. the make CONCORDIENSIS, Wednesday, Oct. 30, 1974/ Continued from Page 6 one r,equest. Whether or not you prefer me or prefer any of m.y opponents, please get out and vote. 'By voting you do yot~rself, as well as the college community, a great favor. EffectiVe student power will never exist j,f the students do not even care to vote. If anyone has any questions that they would like to ask me~ I live at 318 Davidson (north) and my phone number is 346-g422. lhank you . Sheri Sloan I would like to he one of th.e two freshmen representatives cl.ected to the Steering Com:miltee. I will effectively V()iCe the opinions of all those concerned. Karen Spar Although the stude.nt body at Union CoJle,ge is rather homogeneous,. it is always open to suggestions to diversify activities .. and facilit.ies. There is a plan to change the existing student center (Carnegie) into a place of social gathering with a restaurant, snack bar, student lounges, and recre,ation rooms. l believe that this is a very good idea and hope it will get support from the student boddy. The Stee.rirtg Committee is apen for all ideas and they should be stated. The new student union would bring our school together more in spirit as wei! as in mind. It is well known that the food at West is not satisfactory. Even · though an alternate place in Carnegie is in its planning process, West College should be looked at also. Sure, there are rising food costs and a shortage of labor, but there should be an im~rovement in what we have. Must we sacrifice quality for qoa ntity? The mail system here is fine as it prevails. It is quite convenient for students to get their mail at the respective dorms. ,J do not feel that $33,000 spent to move the m~ilboxes into Carnegie is advantag~ous. It is not going to change attitudes about people staying there to socialize. One will go to the student . center to socialize when they have the time, not on their way _to class or library as tl;ley stop only to pick up their ' mail. The money proposed to be spent on new mailboxes could be used on other needs such as fixing up rec. rooms Ailthough the task will be' · difficult (as upperclassmen will tell you) I will try to initiate 11ew needed policies. In addition to this. I will conscientiously work on present ones. in the dorms or even more money aUoted to furnishing the ·student center. I also believe that there should be more places for OIJ.t- going mail. Perhaps an out•going mailbox. could be placed in each dorm where the stUdent I) Formation of a ·better ~tudent in1ion in Carnegie Hall, including;ea new restaurant and \a rious forms of entertainment. 2) I a'm trying to raise support lor the hlood-mobile which will he here in November. 1\ote: Mac Donald's, Carrol's, and White Tower will be gi\Vin.g away free burgers: fries and cokes to those student!! Who do:nate hlood.. The Skeller will be giving . away free beer! Please he.lp us in ·this important drive. How many of you realize that in a few months our mailbox.es will no longer be in our dormitories'? They are being t ra nsfered to Carnegie. Hall. The purpose of this is \to bring ~tudents together\. I do not feel students will socialize while picking up their mail. Most people will run in between classes or after lunch; only to rush into another crowd: another line. I believe the expenses should he put to better use. Therefore, I am in the process of com pJ·eting petitions to stop the transfer. I am setously interested in 1mprov.ing student life at U nio.n College. I am disappointed to say that I have noticed much apathy towards our student government. I hope to create more interest and '>Upport for it. This new con'cern lor our government .can only lllake student life better at Union. ''Vote for me, 'cause I'm for you!\ : ... ···-· Da'fe's Men& Slaot» .... st. ( . . Alan Stern It is a generally acknowledged fact that these articles are rarely read. This is probably a result of a tremendous flow of monotony circulated herewith in the past. In all sincerity, I can claim that this article not only shatters this tradition, but I can honestly say that the following artiCle is the most inventive, innovative, gramatically perfect, and mtellectually stimulating literary creation ever published in this periodical (purely objectjve). l have only been here for a month like all the other freshman. We've all had an opportunity to get ac4uainted. witn our courses and adjusted to college life. In addition to this I've been very ·fortunate to meet many of the people, both freshman and upperclassmen, who are not only interested in Union College as a school and its government, but who have worked inside the government, also. I think I've learned a little about the governmental structure and have had the occasion to meet with one err two of the administrators and discuss our · governmental 721 ALTAMONT AVE. NO DELIVERY CHARGE .WITH TWO PIZZAS RDIU¥111 • · UNTIL MIDNIGHT' Cal31.t-Sal mailboxes already are. Tile student~ are victims of a system. that needs changing. Our present calendar is a disadvantage for summer jobs. With the decrease in employment, it is important for us to be a·ble to earn money during the summer months. A rev1s1on of the calendar (perhaps starting a week or two earlier) would enable the student body to be out when most other colleges do and have a fair chance in the summer job market, I feel that a more organized and systematic ride board· is necessary. It is not too effective when there are little ride boards in every dmm, the bookstore and radio station. One centralized hoard would be much more effective for riders and drivers. As junior class president and secreta~yofStudent Senate, I had the opportunity to work in direct contact with students, faculty, and administration. If given the chance I will give all I can to make Union College a better r lace.. ,P.le;as~ ; '~iive ' .lfle your opinions, ideas, and your help, lor I feel a freshman representa.tive is a representative of the ·class and not the individual. attributes and shortcomings with them at length. In attempting to become a 1nore involved student I have attended many Steering Committee meetings and was fortuna h. enough to be selected as nne ot the members of the group to revise _thP entire Steering (. 'ommittee constitution. Sup- rlementing participation in the present government I have initiated the Freshman Ad Hoc PRIPAR~ FOR: LSA .. T/ u. *SCHOOL .· ADMISSION · . · nsr ! liCOID. G .. 8 . 1 GU0U.tt • . .E EXAMlMAfiOM . 'REVIEW COURSES •ow lElia. FORMED-OENI•a CLASSES For Information C.onton:. Jose'-h A. Urso TESTIIIG R~VI6W SERVICE 42 lorwaod Awe., Alb•nt 12201 489·1254 Ken Stone !here are many students running for the two· positions of student representative to the Steering Committee; and if they all wrote statements for this paper then rm sure some of you don't lee! like reading all of them. With this in mind: I'll try to keep my statement concise and to the point. My name is Ken Stone and I'm from Great Neck ('yep, that's on The Island near The City). I've had a lot of experience in student government, and I'm sure my opponents have had likewise. I don't think it's necessary .to enumerate the positions l held in high school in this writing, although if you would like to know, feel free to see me in my room (257 Davidson--South). l·n a small college such as Union, communication between students and other members of the college community is much easier than in a large university. I feel that this is a great asset to our student government since the opportunity for students to ' communicate with their elected officers is greatly enhanced. I helieve that as freshman rep, it is of great importance that t·he rep· and the students are constantly aware of each other's viewpoints and needs. The freshman representative should know how the class would approach and deal with a given problem, and also he or she should be aware of the gripes of the class so that some' action might be taken on them. Keeping in line with this thought, I urge those of you who are interested in talking to me hetween now and next Tuesday (election day) to come to- my room (257 Davidson)•. and, ra·p·• about me, the student government here at. Union, or jl\SJ, anything you want to talk abo.ut • .l• (eel that · in this way you can learn more abo_ut this candidate and I would he happy to .answer your questions on the make-up of the government. !\~ a note of clarification, let me explain that the Steering Committee functions as a student forum. It handles matters that tleal with students. The highest organization is the College Senate \\ h ich deals with all college matters. This includes anything from campus lighting to faculty tenure. If you are still reading this, let me wholeheartedly thank you for Committee, designed for two purposes. The Grst, to research levels of governmental organization at other similar colleges, and the second, to 'timulate and encourage freshman participation here at Union. I he election is coming up in less than one week, and I ask that if you have any questions or just \\ant to talk, feel free to stop in to 'ee me at 116 Davidson (north} anytime or call me at 346-9126. I feel the need to know your thoughts and opinions in order to represent you properly. Please afford me the opportunity to use the best of my ability to serve you as your freshman representative to the Steering Committee. • pRIMEWAY INNS fage 7 your perseverence and will procede to conclude. Our class of ·n is a diversified assemblage of students, even though 18% are from Nassau County. Being a representative of our class is indeed a challenge, but one that r look at with great hope and anticipated satisfaction. Finally, let me once more ask you to come see me in my room during the campaign and hopefully after the elections. Thank you for your time, On Sunday night, November 3, at 7:30 p.m. in Strauss Lounge, the Ad Hoc Committee for a •Student Government (a Ad Hoc committee of the Steering · Committee) will hold an OPEN FORUM. The Committee is seriously investigating the system of student govei'nmept at Union and after recei.ving considerable input from all ends of .Ute student. po.litical .. spectrum, intends to draw up a new Constitution.AII opinions, cl1iticisms and ideas are needed and the committee is anxious for all interested students to come and speak their minds. This is the time to speak out and the \Jerry Garcia\ supporters are particularly ured to attend. If considerable interest is indicated this S u n d a y • a d d it i o na I opportunities for communication will be schenduled in the coming weeks. Luke's Supermarket Open 7 Days a Week 830 Eastem Ave. 346-9757 TV RENTAL a .\!11 Uttlc> ,\,. $2 Pf'r Da\' ,f.CIIM-B!\t ·- 13'•.17';19·· Wt•('k-~onlh-Yc-ar 313 New larnir RL a.-Iss Near l.·lart &at • Luxury Appointed Rooms •Affordable Rates •Color TV 1616 STATE STREET Intersection Rts. s'\ & 7 Next to Howard Johnsons Schenectady. N.Y. (518)310-3000

i \ ,I'' I :i,:' , '· ; I ! ·,,.' l ., t .·' ; '! '! ~ i J ';·I · . Page8 CONCORDIENSIS. W'_ednesday, Oct. 30,.1974 Soccer or Basketball, Injured or Well. Hustle makes \Denio\ a Star. Booters SPLIT ..... JOHN BUSTERUD LEE RIMSKY The varsity soccer team plummetted from the undefeated ranks last Wednesday when they dropped a tough 3-1 decision to a powerful Colgate squad. The Garnet rebounded from the loss, however, when they drubbed a young Middlebury contingent this past Saturday. Against Colgate, Union was outplayed by a crafty Red Raider team. With the. wind at their backs in the first half, Union applied steady pressure on the Colgate defense. They were unable to put the ball in the goai, however, as Colgate collapsed eight men into their own penalty area. In the second half, using the strong wind to their advantage, Colgate scored a quick two goals in the first ten minutes and then again went into their eight man prevent defense. Union was able to get one goal 15ack on a perfectly executed pass play from Craig Jeffries to a charging Doug Moran. the senior halfback's first tally of the year. But it was not enough as Colgate added one more goal at the end of the game to ice their 3-1 victory. I he action in the Middlebury contest was fast and furious. ll nion ended up on the long side of a 2-0 score, but were defeated in the amount of players being thrown out, 3-2. Union's play in the first half was marked by aggressive defense. The efforts of goalie Chris Huban and fullbacks I im Fitzgerald, Jim Manning, Mike Smith, and Jitn Bacharach prevented Union from being in \\ orse shape than a 0-0 halftime score. In the second half, Union took command of the tempo of the game and it was not long before they drew first blood after being awarded a penalty kick, on a screaming shot by Craig Jeffries. Jeffries took the penalty shot and drilled it past the Panther goalkeeper. But Union was not content to sit on their one goal lead. Led by the aggressive play of Rich Earl, Union controlled the play all over the field. And with fifteen minutes remaining in the game, the Gamet's efforts were rewarded as Don Ward headed a perfect pass to fast- breaking John _Denio. Denio calmly half-volleyed the ball past the diving goalie. In fact, Union's domination of the second half was so complete that Middlebury became frustrated and began to initiate fistfights rather than try to make up the deficit. With about nine. minutes left in the game, a rvi iddlebury player foul-mouthed the referee and was promptly ejected from the game. Soon thereafter, Union fullback Mike Smith and a Middlebury foward engaged in fisticuffs and they too suffered a similar fate. And in the wanin.g minutes, the final altercation broke out. In defense of . harassed teammate Tim I· itzgerald, intimidating \Ti Ralph\ Roumain felled a Panther with a well-placed kick, Union's strong effort puts thetn in good shape for their meeting this week with Albany State. Also, their current 7 -I record makes them a strong contender lor a spot in the Upstate ECAC tournament. Their next and last home . game is . this Saturday against Trinity at 11:30 am. Late Flash: The Union varsity soccer squad triumphed over a highly skilled Albany State contingent, 5-3. Amazing John Denio got a hat trick, ( 3 goals) with Craig Jeffries and Don Ward adding one each. This win makes llnion a strong contender for an I:.C.A.C. tournamertt berth. Hobart Downs Gridders Union traveled to Geneva Saturday to be run over by a powerful Hobart ground game. And While the 9arnet succumb~;d to the favored Statesrne:n 29•18; the day was not without its rewards for Union Coach Gerry Everling. For the first time i:n five tries, Running lough by ALISON SLOAT his offensive troop$ went through an entire game without a turnover. And sophom-ore quarterback Mark Broomfield,, replacing junior Rick Mayellafter the first offensive series, tnade a spectacular debut with 47 ~nd 33~ yard touchdown pas~es to end Lou Miller and an 18-yar-<l run on his won for the third Union TO. Over;dl, Broomfield Was. ll for 21' and 161 yards in passing. The 19~ year~old from Shortsville, N.Y., kept Uniort in the game against Hoba:rt, now 5-l, and helped compensate for the damage U rtion's .running attack s ilstained when sophomore ha:lfbitc'k Leonard L!ile suffered a bruis~d leg. Lee's senior running mate, Ron Westbrook, returned to. action after a week off with an injured shoulder, hut he was used sparingly a·gainst Ho·bart, Union -is at home Satutday against WillialT)s, an ancient but seldom- vanquished rival. It will be the 71 st meeting between the .two clu l:>s, with the Ephme n holding a top-heavy 52-'14 · edge en the sedes. Union last won in 1968. According to Coach Ted Bick t-his season's cross country ream deserves praise and admiration. Courage seems to be the powering force behind the squad. Junior Co-captain Steve Jones, still f i g h t i n g a b a t tl e w i t:h mononucleosis, scored critical' points in both the RPI and Middlebury meets. Stef won on Homecoming versus the engineers and aided in the slim one point victory over Middlebury. Senior co-capt. John Dolan was the victor over the Panthers. J .• Y. Soccer Stan Wiskoski is the man responsible for breaking down the opponents psych. By going out hard and turning .in remarkable splits, like sub 5 minute miles, Wyskoski dra·ws out ' t·he opposition forcing them·to keep up. Commenting on the season thus far coach Bick remarked that he was more than merely pleased. He sa·id that in any meet where there was a shread of hope to win his runners came through victorious. The thinclads have their work cut out for them against the Ephmen tomorrow in Williamstown. by BOB HOWARD I he Union j.v. soccer team was victorious in two games this week to keep up their undefeated record of four wins and one tie. In last WedAesday's game at Calgate, the hooters .squeaked by with a narrow 2-1 victory over a very good Colgate team. Morris Wallak, playing wing and center forward, scored both goals in the second half to win the game for Union. Colgate, playing very skillfully, went in at half time with a 1-0 lead and. generally dominated the first ha,Jf. After an inspiring half time speech by CoachScanlon, the boaters sufficiently recovered to come back and win. On Saturday, the j.v. hooters won a relatively easy game' against Middlebury 3-L h:a SPORTS SHORTS 3 on 3 Basketball - All 4 man rosters must be submitted to Coach Scanlon in the gym by Nov. 1st. Games begin around Nov. 6th. Coed Turkey Shoot - Couples interested in competing on Nov. 25th in an Archery Tournament, pick up entries at the gym. First prize is a turkey, second place finisher wins a chicken. Sign up deadline is Nov. 18. Intramural Cross-Country - The third annual intramural cross-country runs will be held on Friday afternoon, Nov. 1st. The 1-mile woman's rnee will be held at 2:45 p.m.; the 2Y4-mile open race is scheduled for 3:00 p.m. Students, faculty, staff and alumni are eligible. Awards to the first three finishers of each race; teams may represent any gr()up. To register, see T.A. Bick,. Bailey Hall, Room 208C. Basketball Tryouts ...... Anyone interested in playing varsity basketball this season, practice begins Frid.ay, Nov. 1st at 4:00 p.m. in the fieldhouse. Freshman candidates sh()uld report on Friday at 7:00p.m. Frat Intramural Finals - The final of the Fraternity Football play-offs between the unscored upon sweethearts of Sigma Chi and diabolical D.U. will be on Monday, Nov. 4th at 3:30. May the best team (still standing at the end) win. Happiness is a warm serum. Sutton scored two goals, one. in each period, and Morris Wallak pro;vided · the other for the three . lJ n!on scores. irhe defense played its usually outstanding game, and eXcept for one slip-up, get'lera.Jly held Midalebury in chec.k. Goalie Cliff Langweiler had his · usual fine game. The Bill Scanlon coached team faces Albany State t'od.ay. Prospects appear very good for an undefeated season. -Rugby by -GLENN. MEYERS . The name of the game/ is Rugby. And the object, at least for Union Ruggers, is to have a good time. You may have seen us out .in front of West onMortday, Wednesday, and Friday afternoons. Or, maybe you caught our game against Cortland on Saturd_ay of homecoming weekend. Explanation of tbe rules of the game would make for a boring- article on rugby so that won't be gone into here. The game is an old one and is the mother of footbalL It's a rough game in which no padding is worn. Forty minute halves are played with no time outs; constant running; a five minute break between halves, ·anci no substitutions for injuries. If p, · man is hurt, his team plays short. At Unio·n, Rugby is considered a \club\ sport which means that we play against other schools but we aren't a varsity team and we have no coach. We're a competitive group of ruggers and, though we never get run over, we haven't quite gotte~n into ·rhe habit -of winning. We play only four gai!)es over a five week period but we play rugby three times a week within the club and generally everyone puts out. Practices are a lot of fun and a :lot of hard work. A large group ·of freshman came out this year to play rugby. · Hoory, Hoory: Davidson South will talu on Davidson North in an all-time classic tug-of-war on thr football field during halftime of the Middlebury game on November 9. Every member of the college community will be given the opportq.nity next week to pick and IJiace odds on the winner. Holders of winning tickets tv ill be admitted to \The Rafters at l;nion\ (in the gymnasi!Jm) later that eveningat a reduced price! Any proceeds froru this evellt will go towards furnis·lling the Davidson Hoose Lounge. For further information contact any .)f tile Davidson RAs. - cl w Sl s w ta a1 fl p n ( s a T v

is Let us not seek to satfsfy our thirst for jreedqm by drinkingfrom the cup of tokenism andcompromise. Teewhatts Vol. 3, No.. 2 Union Collet!e Bl~ck Student Alliance's ~ewspaper October 30, 1974 ·Editor's PrerogOtive For this issue, especially since so many things are on my rtiind I have devised a list of points that I would like to tell the Freshmen class about and to remind our upperclassmen and women. Some may think ~hey ar.e trivial, hut I know that I wish somebody had .told me these things and m()re, so I'm following the Golden ~Rul~: * Freshmen 'try not to' overuse your privilege of dropping courses unless you have hit rock bottom in :your brain area.· Why?: a. you'll have to compensate for it sooner or later, ,may as· well do it right the first time. b. overlo~ds are no longer free a:nd swmrn,er shcool is a drag. · c. Overloads put a strain on your other courses. * If you must drop a course make sure that the reasons are not due to personality conflicts with professors .•. We have paid people whose jobs are designed to straighten out such difficulties. * If you must drop a course and ii's because you are falling behind, seek help from a tutor who is also here, free of charge and being paid to help you. Personal tutoring does make· a difference. * If you had· bad study habits in highschool and got over, be prepared for a. change. If you are in a highly technical course that demands constant study, remedy your habits or pay the price. * Remember you are paying to go to school here so you have as much right to pipe up with your two cents as any member: drain every educator here of every drop of knowledge that you can possibly sop up. * Make your advisor be productive, if you have questions and he merely shrugs his shouiders, demand that he call somewhere to find out the answer: If your advisor gives you negative advice (i.e., drop out of engineering because you've got ~a brain like a sieve), get a seond opinion. * If you have a heavy major (naturally everyone's major is heayy) and you don't get over after the first term, do not run to an easier major. Don't let a \D\ scare you or even an \F\, • · stick to that which you had your heart set on doing. With the proper guidance you'll get it right. · *Try to get to know some faculty members well, without brown-nosing... you'll never know when you'll need a reference for grad school or a job. · · *Take advantage of the term abroad programs, This may be your only chance to really trnvle. * Line up your vacation jobs well in advance. Union's schedule is such that we have the last pick in vacation jobs. * Find out what there is on this. campus that yQu can use, and .whatever it is, use it til you are satisfied. Especially the · . recreational facilities. * When you go to the Big N or any food place to shop, and you call a taxi, don't pay that man a $1.25 if he merely sits on his butt without helping to carry groceries~ The fare is $.85: * Don't believe everything upper-class people tell you the people here. Check them out yourself. * Put your thoughts in your school newspaper; seeing your name in print, you may be enlightening solne,ont:::l else. *Try to keep in touch with your Moms and Pops. may send you an extra check sometime. ' 1st Attica Trial Ends with Dismissal The first of the trials stemming from the Attica Prison Uprising .ended today with the dismissal of all charges. Brother Willie Smith had been charged with 2 counts of sodomy and 2 counts of sexual abuse. In granting the motion for dismissal filed Friday by defense lawyers, Supreme Court Justice Frank R. Bavger cited the lack of any corroborating evidence presented for the prosecution in the trial When the decision of the court was announced, cheering and app.lause broke out in the courtroom and among supporters waiting outside in the hallway, I he defendant, a native of Buffalo, was immediately greeted as he walked from the courtroom by his family and friends. Earlier in the morning, several people protested against the trial outside the courthol!-se. ,After the dismissa I, many of them went into the Erie County Jail to deliver the news to Attica Brothers being held there awaiting trail. Judge Baker, in a statement issued to the press. stated \that I have examined an<! reviewed all the testimony; I have listened to and reread all tile evide.nce and considered the legal arguments of coun~el... it is my conclusion that the people have failed topresent evidence sufficient to sustain charges ... \ The prosecutor, deputy attCJrney ,general, Brian Malone, took exception to the decisio11 and refused to comment Carlos Hill - New Dean Brothers: Hey girl, did you hear what Jay said? Sister: Yea man! He there was ·• another working with him: said that brother Brother: Y·ea! ·tet's go and checK out where this brother is coming from. Who is the new Brother that they are talking about? Well, his name is Carlos HilL Carlos' official title is that of Assistant Dean of Students and Co- Director .of A.O.C. Students. Carlos was born in Ipswich, England but he has lived in Trinidad most of his life. He graduated from Dartmouth College and has a B.A. in Spanish Literature. He lil<es tennis; basketball, swimming, track, martial arts and reading. · When asked what he would like to see or do, he replied in this manner: I. He would like to help provide a better environment for minorities. This would mean that an the. minorities will have to want this for themselves. 2. He would like to see that those minorities that come here are , . . exposed to as many facets of the College as possible through social interaction with faculty, and just through general interest in the world around them. 3. He would like to increase his personal awareness to the minority situation at Union and the surrounding community. 4. He would like to see Union become an instrument in creating the type of social and political awareness that can be a benefit for the entire community. Carlos also states that Black educated leaders have been and must continue to be the servants of their community in dealing with the white man - to affect changes in the community. Also, 8lack people must begin to seize the power in their community and know how to use that power to help their community. As to students, Carlos states that all Black students should take the opportunity to travel under a foreign exchange J'· program or a school sponsored program. Travel is one means of gaining self-awareness and it can provide the knowledge to deal with the problem that Americans has trusted upon the Black race. Young blood Carlos Hill, Ass't Dean of Students and Co-Director of A. 0. C. Explosions For Puerto Rican Freedom As to himself, Carlos would like to finish his Master Oegree in Educational Administration. He feels that he will be in a more qualified position to deal with America's most urgent problem. Well to you Carlos we say welcome to Union and we wish you all the luck in the world. The New Y Qrk Times reported on Sunday, Oct. 27, that five bombs exploded early Saturday morning in the course of 35 minutes. There were no reported injuries, but considerable property was sustained. Two persons from a Puerto Rican liberation organization, telephoned authorities and claimed responsibilities for the explosions. by two hole in the street - suggested \professionals\ were damage~ up to the eighth tloor. The first bomb exploded at 2:55 A.M. and the four others came at 10 minute intervals. Police felt that the synchronized bombings and force of the explosions - the first dtlg a two responsible for the job. The bombs were directed at large businesses - one in Chase Manhattan Plaza (near Wall Street), and the rest exploded near tile Exxon Building, Banco de Pence, Union Carbide Building and the Lever Brothers Building. The Chase Manhattan was the first and most powerful explosion. Debris from the car in which the bomb exploded traveled over a block. A half block away, one building had ........ • ._. ...... ...._ ....... ...--.e ...... ~~ ......... on the dismissal afterward. - c· · r. · 8 · do· 1 · · 1 l; In court, defense attorney, James Kemp of Rochester, noted • the marked discrepancil'Jl between i the testimony of the prosecution On Sunday, October 19; t \'itnesses before this court and J 1974 the Steering Committee 1 their earlier testimony before the f h 8 • 11 rand jury. Mr. Kemp ended his o t e lack Students' Alliance ~ \' resolved to publish the : statement by expressing his l following statement. The t agreement with the decision for ~ purpose of the statement is to ~ clismissa I. According to Dennis clarify the position of the J• Cunningham. attorney acting as co-counsel for the defense, \this : Alliance so that all elements of man- never should have been the llnion College community~- will know how to work with hrought to trial. The prosecution the Alliance. . based lis case on evidence which it was unable to produce in and I) ·We want complete; \\ hich the prosecutors admitted freedom for all Black, Chicand 1 had been destroyed in a paper and Native American people,. ~hredder more than one year; m that they may develope to ( ago.\ fv11'. Cunningham is a staff the hiehcst · intellectual, 1 Cooiinued on Page C Continued on Page C § t.- •• \\\\ .. __ ,, ....... _.._.__..._.,( ··- • I. •• Speaking with heavy Spanish accents, the man and woman who telephoned reporters about the explosions, left a \statement\ from their group, that also claimed credit for the September 28 bombings in Newark, N.J. In that statement, the group demanded the release of ·five Puerto Rican prisoners held by the Federal Government. One of the prisoners, Oscar Cellazo, is being held for the attempt in 1950 on the life of then President Harry Truman. He and Griselie Torresolaattempted to shoot their way into Blair House in Washington, D.C. on November 1st of that year, aiming to kill Truman. Torresola died of gunshot wounds. The rest of the prisoners are serving time for firing pistols in the House of Representatives, and wounding several Congressmen, also in 1950. The two nationalists said that the recent bombings commemorated the October 30th \uprising\ in Puerto Rico back in 1950 against \yanki colonial domination\. I he liberatiOn group, F ALN, said the bombings were also in support of the Puerto Riran Independence rally held Sunday. - T. Watts

li '~ ; t ;t ;· _. ~R~a~g~e ;B~;;~~~~~~~~~P~E~R~S;P;813~C~T:~1V;E~, Wedrzesday, Qc:=5t.~3~0,~1~97~4~~~~~~~ ~ \'\= \\\ ~ ~ WHO WEARE EDITOR - Isidra, Person Editor's A$sistant - The House Poetess in residence- Utamo Artist in residence - Robed Da-vis . . . ~. Photography editor - BDI Collilts Typists - Ron Westbrook, Vette Simmons General Writers: Maryilyn :Becton, Gloria Jones, Thomas Watts. Thanks to Donnell Underwood, Madelyn King~. Horace Thompson, Attica Press Release$, Shuon Brown, Gail Chatman, Ana L()gy and Marvin Harris for their contribotions. To The Editor RE: The Occ11pants of Hickok House little research will show that B. E. is a separate language and should he recognized as such. If educators would realize this, so many barriers to communication can be .lifted. YK- NOH's Fables upon a time there was a flock of sheep that lived in a meadow which was often plagued by packs of wolves who came down to try to kill and rape and pat their wooly heads for good luck. Of course the sheep put up a good fight each year, and growing in number and getting stroNger, they successfully warded off their enemies. However, they were sick and tired of having to be constantly on guard of the Wolves, and wanted to live modestly in their beautiful meadow, in peace and harmony, while graz,ing in the grass. So the most politically experienced of the group were elected to find a way to secure the happiness of the flock. Meanwhile, the wolves were in council, because they knew they'd have to use different tactics to break-up the dose knit. community of sheep. Also, -it was 'looking pretty bad to the other . animals in the forest that these just agreed with everything and was arn.azed at Ohreo•s connections with the wolves. Never suspecting, he did what lie was told, aU. in the name of the flock. First they rounded up the flocks fastest lambs. \I'm g0ing to h~lp you get over on the wolves. You see, Deuk and I have arra11ged a foot race ·against the wolves. Who ever wins wiH be lord of this land. After the race the winners will host a big feast for the whole forest.\ Knowing that they. were nimble and ligbtfooted, the lambs agreed. S<Jme g.rumbfed and said \Who are these guys any\Vay?\ but that's besides the point. Well, the lambs. trained, and trained .and the day for the race was drawing nigh. Ohteo left Deuk in charge .and Went back home to tell the W()lves that the race was set. \O.K. Folks. Put on your bibs and set the table. We're gonna feast for sure ·tomorrow night!;.; Every . wolf cheered and he sig~alec;l f-or practice to begin. !he sheep stood rooted in their places, defiantly 'together. \We have taken a vote not to participate in your race. The plans were made without our consent, we don 1 t feel the outcome will better relations and we have pl1:1ns .of our own which will be executed accordingly.\ Ohreo's face got tight. \If you back aut now they will know you are weak and will try to slaughter you aU!\ Sweaty silence. Ohreo turned to Deuk. 'Tell 'em Deuk.\ Deuk said, \Tell ~em what?\ Ohreo started to get hot and nervous. He got so nervm,1s that his wolves' tail started wagging out from under his costume. •• Aha!\ was the cry; Seeing that he was a fake, the sheep began to pounce on him. Ohreo started for the bills, calling over his shoulder for Deuk to follow.. De1,1k said, \You are low. When you get to the other sid'e you can remove your skin. Mine is on tighter Your brother migllt be a little square to you since he won•t indulge in any compl'etely illogical behavior such as drinking alcohol' which could destroy millions of brain cells. Your big sister might boss her man around 'till it makes you wish he'd slap her. Your little sister might take entirely too much bad treatment from her man until you'd like to smack her. But you love them ju~t the same. Your brother might prefer women who are not Black,, he may even consider a Black woman if she's so light she doesn't look Black. Your brother may also be two-faced at times, but you love him just the same. Your sister may be a little crazy, she might stay high, be loud, act wild, but she's still your sister and you still love her. Check this out: A man asks a gmup of Black children what col or the sky is. He gets no response. His convictions about Black people are confirmed: they are ignorant. Another person happens by, and the man tells him what has happened. Not surprised the other rnan singles one of the kids out and says, \Jimmie; how the sky stan'?\ Jimmie says, \Blue.\ The proof of the pudding is not always in the test itself, its how you eat it that counts. And it is that test or the way it's graded which is stunting our growth. CLDON'T 6[ SILLY, fT)LL B[TT[R RCLATIONS WITH THE WOLV[S.,l. Well, the point is that there's many more than two or three brothers and sisters in Hickok with their many different personalities. Sure they clash sometimes, but we are all we have. When that person next door, downstairs or down the hall gets on your nerves, remember: It could be worse. You could be the ONLY Black on this Union College campus. Sharon Brown Don' Hand Ne No Black Talk As we people of celor get closer and closer to doing for ourselves, as we get stronger and constantly prove our worth, the white society pulls its shears out of its trick bag and .crops our wings. ~ • It all starts in kindergarten. When a Black child comes to scho<J! from the ghetto, he brings with him his own way of speaking which he's picked up from his mama and friends and relatives. An unsuspecting teacher will try to correct his English and to force Standard English on him. When a teacher lets a child know that she thinks he's backwards, she turns him off because she's not only saying that he's wrong, but also that his mama and daddy and whole family is wro~g, and that puts him thick on the defensive. Then, early failure comes into play. Early failute happens when a child is constantly put down for the 'Way he operates. He ·· ... form a mental block in a rr uLe and will never be receptive to the subject in question. I sit in my room, upon my bed with book in hand, eyes closed. Sleep. My roommate sits at her desk reading til her eyes bug out. We are in the same course, test tomorrow. I've skipped four out of four classes this week. She's gone to class, talked with the professor and read the work. Test over, she gets a D and I get a B. Why is this? I know I didn't know the work so I B.S'd my hiney off. My roommate works hard, has no style for B.S.-ing and gets nowhere. Could it be that professors like to be B.S.'ed? Or aren't they qualified to find out who has done the work and If early educators could learn who hasn't? I can't help out my that they are teaching standard roommate; it would make no English as a second language, sense to teach her the art of B.S.- problems could very easily be ing, she'd learn nothing. Isn't eliminated. It may be useful to there a fairer way to really test Black children to learn Standard people's knowledge? · English as a second language My major concern In this area because it is respectable and is about Black people, because because it is functional in we are who this phenomenon occasional situations. These I happens to the most. For those think are better . reasons for of us who were not brought up teaclling Standard English t_han . speaking standard English, it the .assumption that even college may seem that we are at· a real professors still feel that one must disadvantage when it comes to learn to speak standard English trying to further our education. before he can succeed in school. However, the only reason that it But for those of us who have is a problem is because those entered college without the people who teach us, then mastery of S.E., (which proves in evaluate our work choose to itself you can do well in school lower our grades because our without S.E.) we are still grammar does not meet with the suffering from low grades rules of standard English. What because the professors chose to they fail to realize is that we are snag us oh technicalities instead not using bad grammar, but that of the essence of that which we we are using good Black English. are saying. Many professors Black English is a separate claim that they just can't language spoken by the majority understand B.E. I bet they'd of Black people. It has its own understand it very quickly it grammatical rules, structures and cal!g!-Jt i~ Harlem past midnight, patterns. For interested people, while being confronted with a ch.eck out the library where group of hostile, numerous studies concerning Black English can be found. A sheep could stand up to those wolves. So one bright young wolf named Ohreo went before the council and said, \Let me go to the sheep, I'll become their leader •. no time. They need someone to lead the flock heh, heh, ... astr:ay. With my plan, I'll have them in your stomachs in his W6lf gi:rlfriend came up to him and gave him a kiss for being so original. She said, \Ohreo you look so funny in sheep's Clothing, but deep down l know how you really are.\ Omitting the r.est of her mush, we find ourselves into the next morning, the day of the· race. It was time for last warm up, so Ohteo scooted back over the line. two days.\ His request granted, He got to the beginning of the Ohreo put on a sheep's skin and path to the meadow only to find went to their meadow to that the whole flock had come infiltrate. When he got there, tl?.e out to greet him. They were sheep were all laying around looking pretty solemn and one taking a siesta. \These dumb spoke up, \Where is·this race to lambkins, this will be a cinch.\ be .held?\ Ohreo said, ''Straight He went up to a lamb named through the path. See we start Deuk and got into a heavy here and run to the wolves side. political discus·sion. The two Wben you win the race, they all ended up being friends, so Ohreo come over here to have a big let Deuk in oil his plan. \Deuk feast.\ One sheep said, \You or buddy, we've got to better must be out yo' damn mind!\ relations with those wolves in Ohreo said, \Don't be. silly. It ·r')~. L C \ r_f ( than· white on rice. I'll stay witll my flock, thanks.'' Being that Ohreo ·had no time to answer, that is the end of my .story. Ohreo is slinking around the hills somewhere afraid to go home, because they'll find out that he lost his face while trying to sav~ his ass. Moral: He who jumps into another's skin will soon show his true colors from within. ::r:: We knew he'd get down and we're proud to say ALI CAME BACK order to live comfortably. Behind will better relations with the me, we'll fix things up.\ 'Deuk wolves.\ And with a smug gtirt, ;::::;:~:::::::;:~::!::::=:::~:-:=»:·:·:=:·:·:·:·:·!·!·:=:::::::~~::::::::::::::!::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::-::::::::!:::::;:::;::::.:;;;:;:;;::::::::::::::!:::::::::::::::;::::!:!~!:::~:;::::;!:::::!:::::::!:!::::::::::~::::::::~:::::::~ \underprivileged\ Blacks. li they · Perspective's glad he did! would respect Black English as the majority of the American Black people's language it may save their families some hassles later when their great- grandchildren may flunk out of · school hecause they just can't get that Black English; and then the Black teachers will be generalizing that \the whites don't know nething, and ain't never gonrta learn nothing.\ Editor's Note: Perspective would appreciate more letters to the Editor, please. · - f< Sl tt cl 0 le h. 0 Cl el e: w ti rr Cl sl s Cl h (( B ~ r Sl - s In Ebo11 rsycl anal) toda~ rartil techn lor t mino comr In comr weak I he, cons· oppr \ alu< the Blacl Sa R, cart< \() 0 cart< Oil v.ere they lllov rcali 'hov Ill ini thin 1 cach

.. • .. • With a.ll the turmQil.occuring in Bostpn tllese days c0ncerning busing,. one may .ask, ·~hy bother with busing anyway?\ Busing is a very controversial nationwille issue .that has been going Qn for .several years now. The ty;pical · white uppermiddleclass Union student who has d'oubts or Stl!.nds against it needs to be enlightened on some reas(}ns for having busing. After attending Union Coll~ge for a year now, I whole4:reartedly suppott busing. One of the Erst things I lloticed when 1 .began classes here was: that so many other fresll.men had had college leve'l Of higli.er level courses that I hadn~t had' in high school. Many of these students did not get AP . credit for them and were, in effect, re·p,eating a course for an easy A c'lr B. Ther person who was taking this course for the first time had t() work twice as hard to make the same gf!lde, which could be very frustrating for that student, · Why does this happen so often? . School boards aU over the country often distribute inferior hooks, ~quipment, and teach.ers to schools with a predominantly. Blac,k or minority population.~ . When even just a few whites Rre admitted ~o one of these schoolS, all of these conditioons improve. In my high school, for example, they · improved the physical conditions as well as added on a few new com·ses of i.nstruction, when just 40 new white pupils were bused there. But when Black students are bused to predominantly white schools, the situation tl'lere rema.ins the same:· PERSPECTIVe, Wednesday, Oct. 30, 1974 across town. But they do have the desire for their children to get top equality education. So to those of you who a$k, \Why should there he busing anyway?'' the answer is: Every child horn in the United States of America deserves a fair chance to get the best eclucation possible for him and busing is the most effective way known to get the action started. Only until the schools 0f minority and underprivileged students are improved, should busing cease. Madelyn King Co~tinU4!d from Page A spiritual and economic levels. 2-) We want an environment at Union College that will encoura:ge our attainment of that aim. 3} We want to maintain our Black cultural integrity without subjugating that integrity to the interests of the white campus community. We plan to maintain our ties to our individual communities, while we learn to livi,! in the over-aU Black community. 4) We want more Black students and faculty, as well as . l'uerto RU:an, Chicano apd Native American stu(lents and faculty. 5) We want more Black- rela:ted courses (o11e in each department, where possible). Specifically, we want an African language eourse and .·Black Artist-in-Residence program. Coittinued from Page A lawyer for the Attica Brothers Legal Defense whicll is helping prepare all the Attica cases for trial. A total of 62 men were indicted on chat;ges stemming from the Attica Uprising. Several of these Attica Brothers are expected to go to trial within the month. Press release fr.om Attica Brothers Legai Defense. Some white parents do .not want their children associating with poor Black children. or Black cllildren period. This is their haiig-up. Most Black Sonia Pearson- taking fall term '74 in France. One of the few taking advantage· of term abroad programs. Photo· by Teewhatts. · parents don't want their children going to predominantly white schools for friendship purposes. ·should attempt to develop their They wol!ld themselves rather the · children as an asset to the kids go to a neighborhood· school betterment .of the Black race. It close to home instead of one way should be reali~ed by both Listening to Donnell Save the Children Pt -1 In the September issut:_ of EbonJ, Dr_ Cress Welsing, a rsychiatrist, presented a profound analysis of t lle ceunent trends in today's white racist society. She particularly deals with the techniques. that t:lle society uses lor the social oppression of its minorities, speoifically the Black \:ommunity. In the article she discusses the \:ommunity, its strengths, its. weaknesses an<! its defensiveness. I he community is waging an ever constant · ~ar against social oppression and against prejudicial \alues. T:he major weapon that the Black community li.as, is its Black children. The community Save the Child·ren Ptll Remembe1· those Farmer Grey \:artoons which we used to watch \O often whe11 we were really into \:artoons'l And Popeye and Oliv€ Oil and Pluto? Those cartoons v.ere the goo<! old days because they ·used to come alive with lllovement, were more artful and realistic than today's which ju1-;t ~how min.imum movement and minimum originality, But one thing that will never change is l'ach child's great attachment to parents that children are our greate&t resource potential. Our parents, community and race should be prepared to make whatever scrifice that is needed to fully develop the potential of each Black child. Society attempts to smother that potential by depriving him of the mental, cmotiomrl, and social stimulation By Donnell Underwood . that his growing mind needs. In other words our youngsters are getting the short e.nd of the stick. Our race is being attacked by society from within and without. Black people are being attacked Trom within by our own kina who try to slit our own throats. We are attacked from without by white racists taking advantage of the l<1ck of unity in the Black race, that laCk of unity leaving us wide open· for attack. Question: Will the B>lack child he allowed to deve:Jop his or her maximum potential'? Who will be responsible for the development of the Black'? Blacks whites, or maybe both. Horace Carlton Thompson l,erspective: Donnell, how do you . feel about Union after having been here for one year? Donnell: I am even happier with my position now than when I first arrived, l understand my responsibilities, and Union College, more. I think I can be· even more effective after a year of involvement. What is your position and what are your responsibilities? . Assistant Director of Admissions and Coordinator for Minority Recruitment, not to be confused with Minority Recruiter. Well then, who is the Minority necruiter? You . me; the students of Union, both black and white, the ~.:ntire Admissions operation, a chance for a fine and equal education, a good reputation with the minority community. Those are the Recruiters. Do you think our minority · recruiters are doing their job? these two dimensional characters. Because we now know the 'great impact that the T.V, has on people, a.nd because children make up a large part of the T.V. \iewing audience; child'ren's shows have changed in content, (i.e. less violent, minorities get more play, women have a new image in some); and there are two good solid black children's shows aired on Saturday morning. However, due to ne~lect. or 'continued on PageD · I hey are doing theirs, and I'm doing mine, but there is no question that we can do more. How do you feel about our new !,resident, Dr. Bonner? I think Union C allege is in for a fascinating future if Bonner does half of the things he is expected to .do. I also feel that the U nioll ( \oHege Community has much work to do in order to back up Dr. Bonner's hopes for Union., Do you think that there is hope for Union? Sure, Union College has as much potential, if not m()re, thart any college. You attended Alban:Y State, am I correct? Yes. How does it feel to work at a school the size of Union after having been at A.lbany. Strange, but good. In what sense? lnall senses. I think the most significant differe11ce is between 19615-72, rather than Albany State <H'Id Union. Albany is as ·different today from itself as it is from Union. Of course that is an exaggeration. Slightly, don't ask me to compare the two, what are you a wiseguy? O.K. I'll change the ~ubject. What (Jo you like most about your job? Probably that it is almost a perfect job. It is professionally rewarding because l am called upon to do a number of things, like coumel, travel, evaluate, interview, and recommend (or not recommend, whatever the case mayhe) Students. And last but not least, it is ethically rewarding hecause after five ()'clock I still helieve in what I do before 5:00. What do you wa11t most, for t:nion? Communication between students and Administrators, blacks and whites, men and women; and more minority students. (smile). Are you married, Donnell? No, why do you ask? Curious. What are y.,ur IJ.Ians for the future? Well, graduate school in a few years. I haven't really planned ·, . PageC NOT OUR JOB By Marilyn Becton When I came to Union CoHege, I knew what I was getting myself into. I was well aware of the number of blacks as compared to the number of whites, grossly uneven. It didn't really bother me considering I'm basically from a predominalltl'y black environment. ln fact, I think I've adjusted rather well, whereas some whites are having~ifficulties dealing with the presence of black students on Union College Campus. Did you know that some whites .actually believe that Hickok House is some type of arsenal, and that the black folk who live there are plotting some type of revolt? Personally, the closest I ever came to a gun was when I use to go h:unting with my father (and I wasn't even allowed to hold a gun). As far as a revolt goes, that's numerically and ethically impossible. Now just because some whites on this campus have all the~e idiotic notions, is itthejob of the Black Student Alliance, or black students here to ease their minds? Is it our duty to invite or be subtly forced to invite whites to Hickok and pretend that we want to be friends? Should we be obligated to participate in farcical events dreamed up by so-called ''liberal\ administrators to promote racial harmony? I say no. For years blacks have had to prove to ignorant whites that we don't \stink\, we're of equal \intelligence\ and we're not really \violent\. Well, I'm fed up with it. I'm sick and tired of having to perform for our sick white counterparts. It's time they dealt with their own jammed-up minds. I really ·don't give a damn what a white student thinks of me because, a,theyare not footing any· of my bill~. h,they are not putting clothes on my back or food in my stomach, and lC,they are not the ones who'll hand me my degree in 1977. From reading this article, you may think that I have hostile attitudes towards whites, that's the furthest thing from my mind. I have hostile feelings towards some of the attempts made by white administrators to obtain the service of the B.S.A., in solving the racist ideas of their poor misguided white brethren. If racial tensions are going to be eased, they won't be with phony and idiotic ideas dreamed up by the liberals of Union College. • • • • anything after that. Graduate School in what area? Educational Administration. Who is your favorite singer? \ina Simone. Color? Blue, Sign? Cancer Scorpio. i\4uarius., Leo, Sagittarius .... Okay, okay. What was your major in school? I·.ducation, Engineering .. With a minor in Afro-American studies a rtd theater. What do think of U11ion Afro~ American Studies Dept.? Be funny. Well ••• llnion will probably do what most colleges are doing, and that Continued on Page D

> ' ' ' I·, , ;': : f ) : 'i h':l l \' . : , I i':! PageD PERSPECTIVE, Wednesday, Oct. 30, 1974 Continued from Page C is combining the Afro-American Studies with the college curriculum. In other words, Afro- Literature would be offered through the English Dept., Afro His tory, through the His tory Dept., etc .... What do you think about what is happening politically in the United States? I think is is basically hopeless, except for those people who do more working than hoping: What do you think about women, Black women~ especially. don't think the world is worth failure to understand, there is one saving if women aren't worth children's cartoon that I cannot being loved, respected, and understand why it is still allowed acknowledged, especially black to be shown. That's the one called women. Bullwinkle, Sat. morning, at 7:00 Do you fel\1' loosing your' job to a a.m. The show is seemingly woman? harmless, but, for the past two I fear loosing my job to anybody Saturday mornings, the activities really, which I see as good. That of Rocky and his friends, kind of fear coupled with the way Hullwinkle and Mr. Peabody, I feel about my job is what keeps have been questionable. You see, me on IllY toes. the professor type character, Mr. What are your hobbies? Peabody, has a time machine Travelling, tennis, acting, having. called the Way back which takes fun. What was the last book you read? the characters back in time, James Baldwin's \If Beale Street thereby setting u.p the plots for Could Talk\. Did you enjoy it?' the shows. Last Saturday, the machine took them back to some resort that was failing because a group of Indians had set up their homes in the lobby of the hotel. This was an act of p,rotest because the Indians felt that this was their land on which the hotel stood. When Mr. Peabody questions the chief ·of the Indians, the firstthing that comes -out ot/his mouth is, \How!\ Then he goes on to say, \Great - W hi t e- Fat h e r i n Washington D.C. say this is Big Chief so and so's land!\ Grea,t white father, nell! What is some little 'Indian child supposed to do- the lndian~ to bum down haU the country before we .notice racist remarks like this one? Uke too rnany' ()ther histot:ical incidents, they (Americans) wait until it is too la.te, then they wonder why you don't jump to slup up the crud they serve' you from that · c.old tin can of human beans. What better place is .there to start cleaning up behind ohrselves, than with our children? And if degrading protrayals of the American Indian ate allowed to be aired, the results will merely perpetuate that hell for which we all wm have to pay. with that situation? Why shouldj;:!!~~*~ctt:!dl::::Q:=t!::~~~~t:::ll:~• he or she have to deal with it in the first place? Tha.t crap should Pot Pourri Few things are more important to me than understanding women. They are our lifeblood. H we abuse them, we loose them. l Somewhat, it was not however, his finest ,piece. Have yo11 ever contemplated -==::::.::::~o::::::::=::D::::::=:::::t:r::::::=::::a writing a book. ~===~:::!::====~ have been banned before it was L.;========~:lf written. Do we have to wait for By Gail Chatman Ham Hocks ~md Collard Greens r :::s C: $ r: ~ C: =* Yes CREDOMOLO 1 become what I am because I exist as a shade in a universe of different of colors. I become what I am because I believe in ideas and becom._e those ideas. I continue becoming when truth touches my essence. Somewhere there is total Blackness; Blackness the color of my true soul Blackness is what whiteness is not, and through moments I become richer Black, As I move through Black sequences you ask me what it is I search for; Values, I declare to you, Tenacious in their being, and you moved on, dim understa.!lding contorted your presence. I moved into being wnat I am; I am existences which merge into being you compose denial for my essence, Yet my totality IS too Black to be usurped. -Carlos Hill What about? Sex,· oppression, depression, excite·ment, pleasure, San Francisco ...... What would tbe title be? America .. Why di.d you consent to interviewing yourself? Because, all of the Perspectives' interviewers are out interviewing Jay and Carlos ... Thank you. You're welcome .... UNION'.S Nf.W IMAGE The llext deadline for Per~pective will be Nov. 3, 1974. Please have your articles typed and double spaced. Submit to lsidra Penon; rm 108 Hickok. Thank-you The Sister Said No! A jivewhite man saw two women walking down the street Both yotmg and fine a two beautiful shades of tan. One was a little confused as to what color she wanted to be The other was quite certain that she was black it was plain to see. The first was nice looking I'll give her that. Her hair was straight (or maybe it was a wig) Her style was snow white. That should tell you where her head was at. - The sister had a perfect fro' and her style was black and outa sight. A white man approached the women one at a time He offered each an evening that they'd never; forget. The one in white said I'll be waiting for you to show The sister, of course, simply said no The sister thought this dude was way out of line The other one just didn't seem to mind The one in white said O.K.here is my number pick me up at nine IC::.:==:::oc:;::. =::=::::x::::occ:::=:.=::::x::Je:=::::=== The sister said, \no way\ I prefer mY own kind. - Utamu SOULFUL SOUNDS I 640 MON WED THU FRI UNLIMITED \ W R UC ON YOUR AM RADtO DIAL ro:·oo AM. 12:00 NOON 10=00 PM -12.:00 MIDNIGHT 12:00 MlDNfGHT-2:00 AM. 8=00 PM -tO:OQ PM 6 medium-size smoked ham hocks or I Ib, slab bacon, unsliced . 3 qts. water I tsp. ;crushed red pepper or 3 fresh hot peppers 8 Ibs. collard greens Salt ' I tsp. Sl!gar Clean ham hocks i·Ii Warm salty water (3 qt~.) Sprinkle with crushed red peper and cook with top on for about 2Y2 hours. Cut leaves off collard green stalks and place them in cold water, sprinkle with sa.lt, cleanse thoroughly, rinse and cut leaves into quarter~. When ham hocks are tender take them from pot. Then plac~ greens,in pot with ham hock juice and lightly sprinkle with salt, pepper, and sugar. Place. ham hocks in same container with greens, cover and cook a half hour or until greens are just tender. Stir greens steadily so that the top greens are at the bottom. Serves 6. Revolutionaries All Gone' The revolutionaries are all gone! • Can't get the job cause black doesn't meet application requirements. Momma still scrubbin floors. Daddy still shining shoes. The revolutionaries are all gone!? \Niggers\ in jail dying for robbery. Whiteys goes free for murder. And the rats still ~iting baby while he sleeps Cause the revolutionaries are all gone Black men back to wearing processes and pushing dope to their own kind Marryin white women while black women marry white men! Tell me where are all the revolutionaries now that we REALLY need a revolution? n·a v K. ~ ,. 1. ou now .. :. Uganda infants develop motor coordination much earlier than do Western Children. A child nine hours old whendrawn up to a sitting positien, is able to prevent his head from falling backward, a feat not accomplished by the Western child until the age of six weeks . .A t · two days the African child holds his head firmly and, with his eyes focused looks at the examiner, not until he is eight weeks old is this done by the Western child. A · seven week old Uganda infant can supp~rt him~elf in a sitting posttton Whtle watching his reflection in a mirror in a manner comparable t0 that of a Western child of twenty weeks. At five months a~ compared to 9 months for the Western child, the Uganda child is able to hold himself upright. He can even take the forms from a Gessell testing hoard; this is done by the Western child at only eleven months. At seven months, a Uganda child walks to the Gessel box to look inside; an average Western child does this at about fifteen months. T~ken From: Psychology and l.tfe by Ruch & Gimbardo. included on Prof. Girdner's Syllabus for Psyche 64 & Psyche 10. That Hercules Was Black? You can read about it in Anacalipsis hY, G?dfrey Higgins on page 242. Its tn the information Cente·r located in Hickok House. bl hi Ia C( T d gt ht ki H< is sc ht I il g< (l1 w a gl WI tb m w re (~ t m th He hi m th he ·'E ~h to b to co 10 p, ra In ag de \1 ··v \H ~1< te1 I ( \\i rc Di he re1 nn I r de Ill. Ri

