st a k d t ' y t f . ' UBUIS COMING Don't let it take you by surprise! The kiU'ate el.a!iS wi.ll meet on . the soceer field today tD as!!ist in the chopping down of the tre~ on the .rink site. Attendance is m!!ndatory. ~'A committee is a group of the unable, selected by the unwilling, to do the unnecessary.·\ - Anon. Vol. 104, ~o~ 6 Wednesday, November 6, 11>74 35 cents How It Works The Mail Room Cometh IJy JUDY DEIN Editor;s Note: In view Ctf the recent elections, curiosity has once again been aroused' :a$ to tbe 11ature of U nion~s committee system of governance. In this article~ written last spring, our reporter attempts to piece the puzzle together for you. The ·recent elections made it to know. howeyer, which clear that students do not know committee or group on campus where to go when they want would be responsible for changing something changed on campus. the Election Committee's Students who were upset with the procedures. Eventually it was w~y that the election was run determined· that since the Elec.tioll- talked about setting up guillelines Committee is a student and specifying procedures for committee, the .proposal could be future elections. NQ one seemed brought before the Steering Results Committee. The Ste~nina Committee is responsible for the workings of all student committees. Non-student committees are r~ponsib~ to the AII-CoUege Senate. The class of '78 went to the· polls' Tuesday to elect class representatives to · the Steering Committee. The tenaman field split tl:te vote so that no candidate was able to achieve the necessary 50% + 1. Thus,., a run off will be required:·· Several committees exist which, if properly used, could make it · easy for students to propose · changes. and make their opinions known. However, it seems that many of these committees have fallen into disuse. Some meet rarely, other& not at all. Many Artist's conc~ption of the proposed mail room in Carnegie. photo by Rail Johnson Continu~d on page 7 the run-off will be held on Thursday, November 7, from 9. a.rn. to 9 p.m., in the Student Center. The four top vote getters are in the run-off. They are respectively: Karen Spar, Alan Stern, Susan Draper, and Bob Dickerman. Fraternity Bidding The final tally for all candidates was as follows: Bob Dickerman Alan Stern Susan Draper Pete Elkin Sherri Sloan Karen Spar Sheri Oka Micnael Ganz Steve Lap.idm Steve Goffner 65 116 90 20 22 120 26 46 44 7 by W.B. and P.D. Freshmen: on the 13th and 14th of this month ~ next Wednesday and Thursday ~ the first of two Fraternity bids will take place. The scene is West College Dining Hall, during lunch and dinner. If you are interested in submitting a bid to join a house, you can do it now. Or, if you wish for more time to decide, you can wait either until the second bid date (the 4th and 5th of December), or until Winter or Spring Terms (when you can pledge a house at any time). Bidding is a two-part process. The first part is a fraternity extending an offer to pledge to a freshman. A house can ask any number of men to pledge, and any one man can be asked by any number of houses to pledge. A house may or may not directly ask a person to pledge before this first bid date, depending on the policy of that house. The second part involves a freshman's bid to join a house. You will be asked to put your name, room number, telephone number, and the three choices of houses you'd like. to join (in otder of preference, I, 2, 3) on a sheet of paper. If you only want to put down one or two houses, this is all right. There will be a box at the check-in table in West College for these bid sheets (which will be supplied), manned by IFC representatives, during lunch and dinner on the 13th and 14th. Fallowing dinner on the 14th, the lFC will meet to match bids. .Let's say a studertt has choices of A.and B houses. If house A has this freshman on its list, then the man is matched with house A. If Continued on page 3 The Biggest Event of the Year Brewer and Shipley, one barrel o.f the double-barreled concert on the 16th which will also feature Aztec Two-Step. Next Saturday evening, November 16, the Union College Social Committee will present its biggest event of the year, a double-barrelled concert featuring Aztec Two-Step and Brewer & Shipley. Aztec Two-Step translated into , English means Rex Fowler and Neal Shulman. The former is from Kansas City, the latter from Manhatten; and they met one night in Boston where they both were ,playing coffeehouses individually. The name is derived from the poetry of Lawrence ... Ferlinghetti: \We waltz into this place/ and a couple of Papish cats/ is doing an Aztec two-step.\ Aztec Two-Step is a funny name that means good music. The headline of the act is Brewer & Shipley. This primarily acoustic duo is made up of thirty- two year old Mike Brewer and thirty year old Tom Shipley. The duo have gained national recongition since recording their hit single \One Toke Over the Line\: The duo played at Union Continued on Page 2 Carlson Discusses College Center Special to Concordiensis Assistant Director of Admissions Craig Carlson discussed plans for the college center at a meeting with students Thursday night, sponsored by the student trustees; Bruce Sostek and Geoff Taylor. Carlson stated that the impetus for improvements to the College Center came from repeated expression of student opinion to the effect that there was no central meeting place on campus. The desire to meet the non- academic needs of students on a college-wide basis led to the plan for an improved College Center. Carlson emphasized that the first priority had to be getting people into the building more often. Since many students don't frequent the l)uilding, any improvements might go unnoticed or unused. This desire to get people inio the building more often, combined with some suggestions from the U.S. Postal Serivce, led to the idea of a campus-wide central mail room; ( ·ontinued on Page 2 Pre-registration materials for winter term will be available in the Office of the Registrar, Room 2, Administration Building, beginning Monday, November 18th. Students are urged to promptly secure their copy of these materials. Students who do not plan to return to Union for the winter term, except graduating s~nioJ'S, should report to the Dean of Students and give notice of tl}eir plans. Course requests are due at the Office of the Registrar not later t.han November 25th. A ten dollar ($10.00) late fee will be assessed thereaftet:

' '· '· •! I . .. Page2 CONCORDIENSIS. We.dnesdav, Nov. 6. 1974 ~0~ .-• ~~ ·atnnrur~;~a ~ Editors-in-chief.. ........................... Chris O'Connor Ro.b Monds :hein Culture Editor ..................................... Peter Sobol Features Editor ................................... Jon Scheer Sports Editors .............................. Kevin Crawford Bill Underhill Photo Editors ................................... Bob Johnson Ellen Radack Danny McManamon Graphic Arts Editor .......................... Bob Johnson Managing Editor. ....................... Doug Carpenter Contributing Editors ............................ Judy Dein Fred Weinstein· Historical Editor.. .................................... Bill Talis Business Manager ............................. Jeanifer Port National Advertising .......................... Steve Kelley Subscriptions Editor .............................. Lisa Tietz Art Staff.. ................................ Marianna Petrik Jill Dannenberg Staff: Audrey· Rothchild, Janet Chapman, Lee Schwartz, Doug· Carpenter, Phyllis Edelman, Rick Ford, Sill Plaus, Sam Hughes CONCORDJENSIS is published every Wednesday by the student body of Onion College, Old Gym Hall, Schenectady, N.Y. Publications Office: The Jewish World Publications, 771 State St., Schenectady, N.Y. 12307 (346-2356 ). Entered in the Schenectady Post Office as Second Class Matter. Subscription ·Rate 35 cents per copy. $8.00 a year delivered anywhere in the United States. told you so Having gone to inspect the sjte of the someday ice rink, this editor overheard the following conversation between two of the . trees encircled with thal fatal· red · ribbon marking . them fo:t:\ . the chain saw. \Well you lose Woody. I told you for years but you wouldn't believe me,\ said one pine t~ another. 4 'By tomorrow we'll be in pieces on the gTound and. P ~ i Delt and D Phi will be fighting. over us for· firewood.\ \I really never though~ I'd see:t~e day,\ said the second tree. \I mean, who would try to build something here, in this little patch of ground? What is it again they are going to build?\ \An ice rink. That's what I hear. A round ice. rink.\ \But I thought this college was having money trouble. Those guys growing in Jackson'.s Gardens· have it made.\ \I don't understand it any more than you do. Remember what old Stonebranch .said before they cut him down for the Fieldhouse?\ \Sure. He said 'Saw if you must this old gray trunk but ... \ \ ... but make damn sure you really have to.' You figure w~'ll all go this wayT \Who can know? One day they plant you- and the next day they mulch you. Hey, that kid's eavesdropping on us.\ \Naw. He's just waiting for firewood.\ pgs college center Continued from P~ge f located in Carnegie. The mailroom has been approved in principle by the Board of Trustees, and Carlson, and should be built this year. It will be located in the northwest · corner of the first floor, directly across the hall from the Cabaret. Carlson stated that only the final details of the plan need be worked out; most importantly: approval by the Executive Board of the Board of Trustees. Further plans for the Cpllegy. • • • I I • Center were also·• . d-Iscussed;. particularly the '·p,rpp·~sed:· establishment of some. , ey-pe .. uf eating facility. Carlson stat¢.~ t~t in talking to other schools who have successful Student Unions or College Centers, a restaurant/ cafe facility is considered one of the most valuable features: Union's College Center restaurant is still very much in the planning stage. Carlson reported that the survey of student opinion taken this fall reveals a split over the style of restaurant preferred: a quiet, cafe-type of operation Vs a more raucus, beery. pub, Carlson is in the process of working, with the. help of ~my interested students, toward a more definite ;plan, which should be completed by next September. you said if where were they? Editors, Concordieosis: On Sunday, November 3, at 7:00 p.m. in Strauss Lounge, there was an open forum for the ad hoc committee on the Constitution of tile Union Callege student government. Eight people were present. That included the person in cha:rge of the committee, Debbie Glasser. Among the eight were two freshmen; one was a candidate for freshman representative to Steering Committee. Where were the other nine candidates? I would like to know just how all- fired with enthusiasm these freshmen really are, if they d:id not even have enough interest to show up at this meeting. We need, obviously, a much better showing in order to have a true reflection of the opinions of the entire student body. Student government at Union is here to represent you, to help you. Our next meeting will be this coming Sunday, Nov. 10, in Strauss Lounge at 7:30 p.m. Be there. Sincerely, Sheri Oka '78 than·ks ·anott Editors, Concordiensis: On behalf of the ad hoc ·committee exammtng the question of the Nott Memorial, I'd like to commend Concordiensis and. David National Trust for Historic Preservation has called it a model for all future studies of its kind, and I commend it to all who are interested in the history of the College. I might also add that I and other members of the committee will be happy to meet with any interested group of students to discuss the building and the quertion of its future. If enough students would like to see p.recisely what sort of problem its condition represents, perha'ps we can arrange a gr9up tour. I'd be happy to hear (on 6171, 6172) from those who'd like to visit the pigeon loft. Again, thank you and Mr. McCourt for some good reporting. Bernard R. Carman vehement Editors, Concordiensis: We disagree vehemently with your recent editorial recommending the abolition of sq uaiters rights. Basic disagreement is with your outrageous claim that squatters rights leads to a proprietary attitude among ·dormitory residents; \people tend to believe that they 'own' a floor. Consequently, outsiders _are looked on with some disfavor ... \ Perhaps this is. true in some isolated parts of campus, but to make this broad generalization to the entire campus as an argument against an established system is uncalled for. New Iaces are always welcome. The most fun with college life comes from living in a dorm with a bunch of frie.nds, and then widening that circle of friends as the years go on. But that cote is essential Besides, that \ownership'' you cry against makes for more -respect for rooms and property. If a person cannot fee] that he owns something he will have less respect for i.t. To say that squatters rights is · \extremely damaging to the social context of the campus\ misses the point. For to break up the community engendered in ''living together .. is inimical to the spirit of Union.. Abolishing squatters rights would aggravate the very principle you wish to maintain ~ the sen$e of living· together in community. Sincerely, Bob Wakeman * * * . * rugby explained Editors, Concordiensis: The author of your booster article on Rugby (Concordy of Wed., Oct. 30) seems to be under the mistaken rmpression that the rules of the g.ame are painstakingly and pedantically complex~ along the lines of ;Robert's Rules of Order {)r the Whistle-in·tbe-Dark system of Bridge bidding. Nothing could be . farther from · the truth; in fact, they may be explained, according to a sportswriter for the SUNY at Buffalo Spectrum, in one sentence: If it moves; kick it; if it doesn't move, kick it until it does mov:e. Sincerely, Steven Gruenwald McCourt for a thoroJ,lgh, thoughtful statement of the issues. I'd like to second Mr. McCourt's suggestion that ·an students make an effort to inform themselves on this subject in advance of the poll to be conducted through pre- davidson war by FRED WEINSTEIN registration. In what promises to be one ?f Copies of the architect's report ,. the g:eatest spo~s spectacles tn are available in Schaffer Library. the history of Umon College, the ihe report is a fascinating study. men of the South side will ~ke on of the relationship of a· physical the _men ~f the North side ?f object, the Nott Memorial. to an Davidson m a tug-of-\':ar that will idea, Union College. It is an be _held ~t the half-ttme of the unusual essay in institutional as U mon-Mtddlebury football game well as architectural history. The t!tis Saturday. ··- ·- -c=-.-::-:.::--·- .. : ....... - It is already a foregone Dr. Nathan Wright, Jr., ex- c~nclusion th~t th~ North side iehairman of the Afro· wdl demohsh tts weaker American Studies program opponents. One need only l~ok as iand present professor 0 ~ far as the R.A.s on each stde to Urban Affairs at Albany State determine the stren~th of e~ch University, will be on campus 1 team .. On the North std~, th~ ftrSt :as the guest of President• floo~ ts led by Fred Wemstem (no Thomas Bonner on Novembe;l ;elat.ton. to the author), . wh~se 15, 1914. At 7:00 p;m. inl tns~trat~on as coach was,pn~~:~~y Memorial Chapel; Dr. Wrigh~ r~spon~Ible. for the floors wmmng will' address the student of the mtramural football tcommunity on various issues championsh!P in the indepe~dent ;concerning the possibilities for league. It .1s g~n~rally believed ~mproving race relations. All that Wemstem s men ?Y · ' iare invited to attend. themselyes could defe~~;t the entt.re · · - · · south s1de. Yet; there Is also Cliff Langweiler, who has time and time again displayed his guile as goalie for the J.V. soccer ,team. l.angweiler master-minded• .·the entire idea of a tug-of-war and the party to be held later in the night and he has disclosed that his has a strategy that Will completely out- psyche the south side. The third floor is commanded by Mitch Kahn and any doubts about his toughness are quickly qestroyed by the fact that he attended W einstei~'s high school, which in view of its graduates had to be one of the toughest high schools around, if not the most academically oriented. On the first floor of the south side is Geoff Taylor, who looks like the kid· in the neighborhood that everyone could beat up. ihe second floor is captained by Bruce Downsbrough, who is referred to as \Mom\ by the Continued on Page 11 big brothers and sisters Have you ever thought that yoli would like to help a chilo in need · of valuable friendship? The Big Brothers and Sisters program offers Union students just this opportunity. Interested students work on a one ... to-one basis with children from the community who could benefit front the guidance of a concerned adult. The relationship usually proves to be a growing experience for both parties. Much of what goes on in this relationship is J.eft ro the individuals involved the program is not highly structured. Big Brothe~ and Sisters usually meet with their children once or twice a week, at their convenience, for any activities they choose. This might include a by'~AUL LAZAR trip to the Museum or just a casual game of football. The progra:qt is run differently this year, as the matching-up process is handled .. by Schenectady Big Brothers, who have the experience and tini,e to do the job. Also, a ('lerious objective is to provide more activities for members to participate in. There will be various picnics, trips and movies each semester in addition to a program at the pool fot children who want to learn haw to swim. Last week a successful Halloween trip to the Haunted House was held. Also, Little Brothers and S-isters will be admitted free of charge to West College dining hall. By the end of this week, most new melllbers should be matched up with their child:ren. Be sure to watch for announcements of up- coming activities. If anyone has questions or wishes tc;> participate ·in the program, please contact either Dave Strom (372-4987), Barb~ua Roslyn (370-6450), or Paul Lazor (370;.6535). concert Continued from Page 1 . three years ago, to a receptive crowd, and · should provide another outstanding show. Tickets are available at Student Activities; $3.50 for Union students. The concert begins af 9:00 p.m. - the des eff• as hig is • kn• Co thi pe1 an• sot gr< tWl I JaJ to po scl co do eit gif pr• hi! gi' hil h:: he lik Cl stt ga wl of or gu pc \V to pl m u G 81 pr hE m th \I es \I in re R B: a~ ol oJ Y€ m tr sl u re

ut is he he in of re lly of of be at ne n't as he he ed in be od by is to or ive ide at' \ CONCORDJENSIS! Wednesday, Nov. 6, 1'974 Page3 Frank Bailey: \Mister Union College\ - by JONAtHAN SCHEER If there has ever been a man in endowment fund of only the history of Union College who $425;000.. By 1950, Union was deserves recognition for his \living within its income\ and had· efforts in helping esta.blish Union built its endownment up to as one of the finest iast:itutions of $1'2;000;000. ln fifty years, Frank higher learning in the country, it Bailey, almost single-handedly, is Frank Bailey. He v.'as, in fact, guided Union from poverty to the known to many as \Mr.· Union sixth richest small men's college College\. One cannot dn justice to in the country. this man in such a shott tra,c:t, but While other small colleges were perhaps an exposition of his \life perpetually incurring operating and times\ will give the reader cost .deficits, under Bailey's some added .illi$ight into U Iii on's guidance as treasurer, Union growth in the first half the the never ran in the red, even during twentieth century. the depression years. this was Born in Chatham, N.Y. in perhaps his most crowning January of 1865, Bailey's ent·rartce achievement. Upon assuming the. to Union in 188·1 Was made office in 190 I, .Bailey addressed possible by a $1()0 a year the trustees and President scholarship granted him by the Andrew Van Vranken Raymond college. Thenceforward, whenever saying that he would ·enforce donating monies to• the college, three rules \First second and either irt the form of an outright third, we must live on the ·income gift or for a sch<>larship fund or of the college, even if it is enough professor's chair, B;~iley reiterated to support only three students.\ his thanks to the college for His guiding principle in education giving him the chance to prove was that a good facility means a himself worthy of its trust. \ff it good ~ollege\ and he held a tight l1::dn't been for Uni<Jn College\ purse string ontlie so-called .. side he once wrote; '\1 would most shows\ characteristic of many likely have been a soda jerk; in a colleges .. It is not surptising that Chatham, N.Y. ·drug store'~. As a he re~atedly clamored for higher student he was · exceptional, professor salaries, many times at gaining Phi Betta Kappa honors the expense of the improvement while graduating third in a class of the physical plant, and that of one hundred twenty five. He three chaired professorships not was chosen as coDlmencement only carry his name but are orator at graduation.. backed with funds from his With no financial heritage to personal estate. 01.1ce:- remarki~g­ guide him. Bailey rose from a- upon a trustee's • suggestion to poor country boy to financier. increase · tuition in order to \When my father died\ he once facilitate the construction of a told a friend, ~'he wa.s worth $25, new dormitory,' Bl.liley ex,!!laimed plus or minus - probably \I can but view with sadness and minus.\ Upi)n grad11atiori from trepidation the growing and Union, he entered the firm Title perpetual .extravagance of our Guarantee & Turst Co. housed in leading colleges. The American Brooklyn, N.Y. By 1923 he was who did not like Oxford because president of the• corporation and the buildings were out of repair, had approved and sold Brooklyn selects the <:ollege for his son mortgages amounting to more where architectunil pre-eminence than $700,00();QIJP, boasting that . appearls to his, Pride, and where \Brooklyn mortgages are th~ saf- sometimes the greatest intellectual est in the world\. Enbarking on a activities occur about a concrete \Horatio Alger~ career, ·Bailey bowl - I hope the day is not invested in real estate in such distant When the intelligent part remote areas a.s Bensonhurst, of the public will demand for each Burrough Park, Long Beac'h and dollar of good American money Brownsville. By t:be time he one dollar's worth of :intellectual assumed the p()sition of Treasurer return.\ of U:Qion College in 1901, (an No one knows exactly how offi<;e he was to ll.old for fifty much money Frank Bailey gave years) Bailey was a self-made to Union College, although some multi-millionaire. have estimated as much as Frank Bailey's , tenure as $7,000,000. Many of his gifts were treasUrer of {) ni.on Was nothing neither recorded nor announced short of incredible. In 1901, publicly. They were never Union was fUnning $25,000 in the announced in his annual red annually, and had an treasurer's reports. It has been suggested that when be was managing the Union College securities portfolio he would assume personally the losses produced by bad investments. In a letter addressed to the chairman of the boavd of trustees dated- December 2, 1929, after the stock market collapse Bailey admitted that \the fact tbat I was foolish enough not to have sold ami corralled this profit (from investments made before the crash) will be my punishment, for I must work and make the money over again, which l feel! can do. In case, at the end of the fiscal year, the assets as r-eported eru:lier show any depreciation, I shall draw my chec~ for the difference.;' This letter was written only months after he donated the money for the contruction .of Bailey HalL As a friend of his said to me recently,. \Frank Bailey took care of Union College for fifty years\. He gave his time and money in an age when there were no tax deductions benefits for doing so. And yet, his control over finances and contributions has left a problem for Union College. He might, in fact, have wielded too much control. Upon his death in 1953, Union embarked on a ,general fund raising drive for the first time, attempting to reach alumni that had never given money to the college before - in many case~·-.simply because they Frank Bailey in 1885. had never before been major gifts to the college include: approached. Many people were· Bailey Hall in 1929; The not, and are still not used to endowment of the Frank Bailey giving money to Union. Chair of Greek in 1945, The How do you replace Frank Frank and Marie Louis Bailey Bailey? Building up general giving Chair of Physics in 1950, the from alumni has been a slow and · Marie Louise Bailey Chair of arduous process. As former Mathematics in 1951, and president Carter Davidson said, scholarship and loan funds 'in \Frank Bailey was one of the two · mempry of his son, Frank Bailey most influential figures in the . Jr., class of l93l. building of Union College.\ His Frank Bailey was a character out of the age of the Vanderbuilts and Rockefellers - fortunately so for Union College. His long term as treasurer of the college is believed to have set a new American collegiate longevity record for such service. As the title of his book suggests, \It can't ever happen here again.\ The death o_f Frank Bailey marked the end of an era in the history of Union College. Oil Costs·- Money by- QUINCY ADAMS WAGSTAFF The world is still in the grips of the new phenomenon known to modern man as energy scarcity. Union College, under the pressures of inflation, slumping stock market, dropping admissions, need to produce .... - greater financial aid, has another huge expense: the cost of heating and lighting the college. The cost of oil, gas and electricity has skyrocketed and continuously hits new record breaking prices. Union College watches as its funds are drained to fill the pools of the Middle Eastern oil magnates. The costs of oil are staggering to an institution of our size. The • college uses three grades of oil: #6, #4 and #2. The cost of #6 grade fuel oil in November, 1973 was 9.76¢ per gallon; as of October, 1974, #6 costs 26.88e p~r gallon. Number 6 fuel oil ro.se m price approximately 2.8 times. Number 4 oil cost 13.31 e per gallon in November, 1973, and in October, 1974, it costs 30._361J: p~r gallon, rising over 11;2 times m cost. The total fuel oil bill in the , Continl!.ed on Page 6 Fraternity Bids Continued from Page 1 house A does not have him on its list, and house B does, tren the man is matched with B. If no house that this freshman wants has this freshman on its list, then· he has to wait until the second bid date or Winter or Spring Terms. What \matching'' means is that the house that matches with a man has first chance to pledge that person. It should be emphasized that this entire process involves no obligation on the part of the freshman to join a house. Should you decide that you don't want to ·go to the house you've been .matched with, all you have to do is say \no thanks.\ Or, if you haven't been matched to the house you really want to join, you can say \no\ and bid again next time around. a trial membership, during which the brothers and pledges get to know each other better. Once again, no obligation to brother is incurred, altho.ugh it is generally assumed (and is nearly always the case) that once you've pledged a house you will be brothered by it. Bouncing around and p.ledging more than one (or two) houses hurts you in two ways: first, you're not getting to know anyone; and two, before long no house will want you because you won't settle down. By the time you decide to pledge a house, your choice should be pretty firm. If you have any questions, feel free to contact any house, any of the people manning the bid box at West College,· or any of the IFC officers · (who are: Bill Batcheller, 346-9973; Paul Daniel 346-9730; or Don Kaufman, 372- 0172). This was where the man lived while he was a student. . : . . i ' After matching, it is up to the individu&l house to contact the people who've been matched with it. After you've d~cided to jpin .a house, you will be pledged. This is

·II, i ,, ;-I ; Page4 CONCORDIENSIS. Wednesday. Nov: 6; 1974 ... - ·- .Good. } '.~. ' The Union College Glee Club and the Goucher• · photo'by Rah Johnson Hopkins Women's Chorus who sang Sunday afternoon. Voices in the Chapel AUBREY CARTON D .W. MULCAHY DAVID McCOURT This week at Union was a fine one for those who enjoyed vocal music, as the Memorial Chapel was the site of two concerts, one on November 3 and the other on the 4th. Both concerts featured wide-ranging programs, but the similarity between the two shows ended there. Sunday afternoon saw the Union College Glee Club join forces with the Goucher-Hopkins Women's Chorus in a fine concert of choral music. The first work on the program was Jubilate Deo, by. 16th century composer Giovanni Gabrieli. Like much of Gabrieli's music, it featured a brass choir in addition to the combined glee clubs. All three sections worked well together on this piece, and the audience received it warmly. Following the precision departure of the Union men from the stage, the Goucher-Hopkins Chorus sang the Seven Choruses from the Alcestis of Euripedes, written by the 20th century English composer Gustav Holst. Featuring narration, two soloists and accompaniment (a harp and three flutes), this piece has a strong element of English folk music to it. It wa-s very well performed, and elicited the enthusiastic reaction from the audience which it deserved. The Union Glee Club returned to sing two works by J.S. Bach and Viadana. The performance was not as strong as that on the Gabrieli, with the lower voices seemingly dominating the tenors. Baritone Keith Kibler '73 was next on the program, backed by Hugh Allen Wilson on organ, in a performance of Alfredo Casella's Tre Canti Sacri. Keith took on a relaxed yet disciplined air as he gave his usual fine effort. The last selection on the program was Zoltan Kodaly's Laudes Organi, which brought the Union and the Goucher-Hopkins glee clubs on stage., in this case directed by George Woodhead. Prof. Hugh Allen Wilson again played organ. The performers reacted to this difficult modern piece with another good effort, coping well with the dissonances which the piece presented. The audience, though small in size, gave ·a substantial ovation to the musicians at the end of this p.iece. Monday night at the Memorial Chapel was another matter entirely. In contrast to the large number of performers on Sunday, the large audience was entertained by six singers who performed without instrumental backup. The King's Singers are by no means your typical musical group. Their repertoire ranges from mediev~ church music to the lighter entertainment which they first started singing informally some six years ago. Male vocal groups of this high level of virtuosity have not really been heard since the 19th century, nor has their combination of voices (2 countertenors, I tenor, 2 baritones and l bass). The pro~ram started off with several ancient pieces, ranging from the 14th to the 16th centuries. The most distinctive feature of these pieces was the performance by the countertenors. The countertenors .have an extremely high range, with a sound not unlike that of a young boy, .albeit a young boy_ with incredible power and control The King's Singers, who sang in the Chapel .M1:mday night. leVI:.S . . Dave's· M .. Sbop 453SIIdeSt. , ........ ·J We Honor the . ·American Express Card TYPING Reasonable Rates Fast Service 393-2233 It Stliiii·B-Bftlll GOLOIII Wolf load Park in his voice. The last piece· before the intennission was a . rather bizarre one written n11973 fQr the King's Singers by. Krzystof Penderecl<i, entitled Ecloga VIII. No doubt a very difficult piece to perform, it calls for such effects as deep~breathing, hissing, shouting, laughing, and occasional singing. Malcolm Williamson's The. Musicians of Bremen (aiso written for the King's Singers), was the first work after the intermission. A free .adaptation of a traditional story, the piece has many humorous effects that ,were appreciated by the audience. !he King's Singers ended their program in their traditional fashion, singing several pieces from the lighter side of their repertoire, ranging from Randy Newman to barbershop quartet. Words can't. capture the tremendous mixture of musicality and peculiarly English humor which the Singers attained here, but suffice it to say that they brought down the house in grand style. Particularly memorable were the performances of the barbershop quartet and an English sea cha-nty reminiscent of Gilbert and Sullivan. The audience forced an encore at this point, so the group returned to do their own arrangement of Ob~La· Dl, Ob·La Da. Another big hit with the audience, this piece provided a fine conclusion to a very entertaining evening. Grea_s-e- by JANE THORPE Last Friday · night Union College students were treated to a fine rendition of oldies by Boston's Shitt4)ns. The girls were dressed flamboyantly in sequined mini's, white patent leather boots with teased hair-do's.' The. men appeared ·i-n matching suits, shades and ~rease. The seven piece band commanded its audience-'s attention from the moment they . hit stage:. Their presentation did not stop with· their visual impact for the Shittons had successfully blended theatrics with their hard-hitting, non.:stop rock•n• roll. The dance started with 'Heat Wave• and pr<>ceeded in the first two sets to include m!l.ny goldt!n oldies from the 50's and 60's. Though most in attendance· were under ten wlt.en the majority of these songs ha.d airplay, there was no lack of enthusiasm or dancing on the part of the Union College students. ---- The third and final set was decidelydifferent.Not only did the Shitton's dress change from grease to glitter, but they left the fifties and sixties behind. The songs performed were Shitton originals. Th.ough the dancers appeared to equally enjoy the rhythmic beat to these songs, they were monotonous to the simple Continued ~n Page ~· Pye In Your Eye Union's Protect Your Environment (PYE) Club is preparing for an active 1974-75 season. PYE is a group of students interested in the state of the environment at Union and in the Schenectady area, and who are willing to put in some time toward improving it. One successful PYE project has been the ·collection of newspapers for recycling. Already PYE's ..Paper Brigade\ which swarms down on Union's dormitories and class buildings every second Friday, has collected over 2 tons of paper. The paper is trucked to a reclamation center in downtown Schenectady and shipped off to paper mills to be reused. PYE is in contact with Schenectady officials and is Getting it on with faded corduroy Matching shirt jacket and slacks for your style. Mix, match or wear separately, whatever the occasi.on. The shirt jacket: western styled with chest yoke, snap fasteners, pleated front and patch pockets. The matching jeans, flared with belt loops. The outfit, faded blue corduroy, 40.00 preparing t<> aid in local, environmentally related projects. One such project is the planned construction of a bike and hike trail along fhe Mohawk River. There is a great deal of ecologically interesting land acreage in the Capit9l District which local politicians are. pressuring to have paved over and developed. I:n conjunction with other conservation groups PYE can help to prevent this waste. There is a lot to be done and a lot we can do. If you're interested, attend the PYE meeting tomorrow, Thursday night, at 7:30 in Strauss Lounge. If you can't make it, call PaHI Siegel at 370-6437 or Gary Lovett at 346- 9211. Dowe'B iqutrr ~(fnp Tues, Thurs 'til 9 DOWNTOWN SCHENECTADY 420 State Street -

Page4 CONCORDIENSIS, Wednesday, Nov. 6, 1974 The Union College Glee Club and the Goucher- · photo by Rah Johnson Hopkins Women's Churus who sang Sunday afternoon. Voices in the Chapel AUBREY CARTON D. W. MULCAHY DAVID McCOURT This week at Union was a fine one for those who enjoyed vocal music, as the Memorial Chapel was the site of two concerts, one on November 3 and the other on the 4th. Both concerts featured wide-ranging programs, but the similarity between the two shows ended there. Sunday afternoon saw the Union College Glee Club JOm forces with the Goucher-Hopkins Women's Chorus in a fine concert of choral music. The first work on the program was Jubilate Deo, by. 16th century composer Giovanni Gabrieli. Like much of Gabrieti's music, it featured a brass choir in addition to the combined glee clubs. All three sections worked well together on this piece, and the audience received it warmly. Following the precision departure of the Union men from the stage, the Goucher-Hopkins Chorus sang the Seven Choruses from the Alcestis of Euripedes, written by the 20th century English composer Gustav Holst. Featuring narration, two soloists and accompaniment (a harp and three flutes), this piece has a strong element of English folk music to it. It was very well performed, and elicited the enthusiastic reaction from the audience which it deserved. The Union Glee Club returned to sing two works by J .S. Bach and Viadana. The performance was not as strong as that on the Gabrieli, with the lower voices seemingly dominating the tenors. Haritone Keith Kibler '73 was next on the program, backed by II ugh Allen Wilson on organ, in a performance of Alfredo Casella's Tre Canti Sacri. Keith took on a relaxed yet disciplined air as he gave his usual fine effort. Ihe last 'election on the program was Zoltan Kodaly\ Laudes Organi, which brought the Union and the {ioucher-Hopkins glee clubs on 'tage, in this case directed by ( ieorge Woodhead. Prof. Hugh Allen Wilson again played organ. I he performers reacted to this difficult modern piece with another good effort, coping well with the dissonances which the piece presented. The audience, though small in size, gave a 'ubstantial ovation to the musicians at the end of this piece. Monday night at the Memorial Chapel was another matter entirely. In contrast to the large number of performers on Sunday, the large audience was entertained by six singers who performed without instrumental backup. The King's Singers are by no means your typical musical group. Their repertoire ranges from mediev~l church music to the lighter entertainment which they first started singing informally some six years ago. Male vocal grOilps of this high level of virtuosity have not really been heard since the 19th century, nor has their combination of voices ( 2 countertenors, I tenor, 2 baritones and I bass). The program started off with several ancient pieces, ranging from the 14th to the 16th centuries. The most distinctive feature of these pieces was the performance by the countertenors. The countertenors have an extremely high range, with a sound not unlike that of a young boy, albeit a young boy with incredible power and control The King's Singers, who sang in the Chapel M\onday night. TYPING Reasonable Rates Fast Service 393-2233 'h'4 We Honor the • American Express Card at Sh!ilk 6-Brllll COLO Ill Wolf Road Park in his voice. The last piece before the intennission was a rather bizarre one written in!973for the King's Singers by Krzystof Penderecki, entitled Ecloga VIU. No doMbt a very difficult piece to perform, it calls for s1.1ch effects as deep-breathing, hissing, shouting, laughing, and occasional singing. Malcolm Williamson's The Musicians of Bremen (also written for the King's Singers) was the first work after the intermission. A free adaptation of a traditional story, the piece has many humorous effects that were appreciated by the audience. The King's Singers ended their program in their traditional fashion, singing several pieces from the lighter side of their Fepertoire, ranging from Randy \' l'\'. man to har ha~ hop y uartl'L \\'.,,rd, l.trl't l·~trtu'l' thl' lrerncnd<>li' rni\ttlf'l' ,,j llltl>i<.~tlit: .t nd pt·nrli<t rl~. r ngJi,h h litH (lf 11 hich till' Singn~ al!ainnl ht·n·. ~·rt wffict· it to >ay that tht'} brought down the house in grand style. Particularly memorable were the performances of the barbershop quartet and an English sea chanty reminiscent of Gilbert and Sullivan. The audience forced an encore at this point, so the group returned to do their own arrangement of Ob-La- Di, Ob-La Da. Another big hit with the audience, this piece provided a fine conclusion to a very entertaining evening. Good Grease by JANE THORPE Last Friday night Union College students were treated to a fine rendition of oldies by Boston's Shittons. The girls were dressed flamboyantly in sequined mini's, wh,ite patent leather boots with teased hair-do's. The men appeaved in matching suits, shades and grease. The seven piece band commanded its audience's attention from the moment they hit stage. Their presentation did not stop with their visual impact for the Shittons had successfully blended theatrics with their hard-hitting, non-~t,op rock'n' roll. I he tLtiKl' 't.trkd 11 ith '!ll·at \\.t\c·' <tt·td pr•.H.Tt:Ucd m tl,fc lu,t tl\o 'l'h to im:ludc many golden ,,JJic~ I rnn1 the 50\ and 60\. J lh1Ugh mo~.t in attendance \\t'fL' under ten when the majority of these songs had airplay, there was no lack of enthusiasm or dancing on the part of the Union College students. The third and final set was decidely different. Not only did the Shitton's dress change from grease to glitter, but they left the fifties and sixties behind. The songs performed were Shitton originals. Though the dancers appeare<l to equally enfoy the rhythmic beat to these songs, they were monotonous to the simple Continued pn Pa-ge 8· Pye In Your Eye Union's Protect Your Environment (PYE) Club is preparing for an active 1974-75 season. PYE is a group of students interested in the state of the environment at Union and in the Schenectady area, and who are willing to put in some time toward improving it. One successful PYE project has been the collection of newspapers for recycling. Already PYE's \Paper Brigade\ which swarms down on Union's dormitories and class buildings every second Friday, has collected over 2 tons of paper. The paper is trucked to a reclamation center in downtown Schenectady and shipped off to paper mills to be reused. PYE ic; in contact with Schenectady officials and is Getting it on with faded corduroy Matching shirt jacket and slacks for your style. Mix. match or wear separately, whatever the occasion. Tne sh1rt Jacket: western styled with chest yoke, snap fasteners. pleated front and patch pockets. The matching jeans. flared w•th belt loops The outfit, faded blue corduroy. 40.00 Dawe's preparing to aid in local, environmentally related projects. One such project is the planned construction of a bike and hike trail along the Mohawk River. There is a great deal of ecologically interesting land acreage in the Capitol District which local politicians are pressuring to have paved over and developed. In conjunction with other conservation groups PYE can help to prevent this waste. There is a lot to be done and a lot we cando. Ifyou're interested, attend the PYE meeting tomorrow, Thursday night, at 7:30 in Strauss Lounge. If you can't make it, call Paul Siegel at 370-6437 or Gary Lovett at 346- 9211. Tues, Thurs 'til 9 f)UW.\TOJ!Vi'i S(HfNECfA,l>Y 420 State Street -

nion to a by ssed ini's, with men its the with· the nded Heat first 60's. were of was the from the The ncers the , they imple local, hike I of land are with PYE ste. a eting at you at 346- •.• ,., 1() u CONCORDIENSIS, Wed.-,esday, Nov. 6, 19721 1r 4.11\lt 111r WIITII-1 photo by Cindy Wolfson Unbridled Hilarity Stop right where you are! The freshman play· is upon you. It is the culmination of hours of devoted labor in every · conceiva. ble aspect of production. ., The set ·is t:he epitome of thoughtful desi,1l;n and precise construction. rhe. props have been donated from every attic of the campus, and are being capably taken care of. The actors have retJ.earsed until as late as I :00 AM. The play itself is an entertaining mix of madness all.d message, · incitefully directed by that master of theatrical insight and \Wielder of the Empty Space,\ Barry Smith.' Do you like snakes? Xylophones? Fireworks? Ballet? Roma11ce~ Can you stand them all at once, in the same play ·at the same time? Find out! Unwind from organic .. Laugh at the Law Boards. Poo poo poli sci. Excuse economics. ~elay the bio. Phorget philosophy. This is a play with al ot to say to everyone who takes the time to listen and is not afraid of laughing. Yo.u cannot go wrong. The play will run the 8th, '9th and lOth., and then the '13th, 14th, 15th and 16th. So thro-w care too the winds and come! Tickets can be reserved by calling 370-6153. Page5 photo by Cindy Wolfson photo by Mark Sbnitkin ·

to a by its the the h·dt l1r\l kh:n r~: of was cing was the the The they mple ocal, jects. nncd hike ivcr. of land are with PYE a at you at 346- CONCORDIENSIS, Wednesday, Nov. 6, 1974 photo by Mark Shnitkin lllr \~ lllr Ill photo by Cindy Wolfson Unbridled Hilaritv .., Stop right where you are! The freshman play is upon you. It is the culmination of hours of devoted labor in every conceivable aspect of production. The set is the epitome of thoughtful design and precise con-struction. The props have been donated from every attic of the campus, and are being capably taken care of. The actors have rehearsed until as late as I :00 AM. The play itself is an entertaining mix of madness and message, incitefully directed by that master of theatrical insight and \Wielder of the Empty Space,\ Barry Smith. Do you like snakes? Xylophones? Fireworks? Ballet? Romance? Can you stand them all at once, in the same play at the same time? Find out! Unwind from organic .. Laugh at the Law Boards. Poo poo poli sci. Excuse economics. Belay the bio. Phorget philosophy. This is a play with alot to say to everyone who takes the time to listen and is not afraid of laughing. You cannot go wrong. The play will run the 8th, •9th and lOth, and then the 13th, 14th, 15th and 16th. So thro-w care to the winds and come! Tickets can be reserved by calling 370-6153. Page5 photo by Cindy Welfson photo by Mark Shnitkin

1.' ~ ,q·4 Page6 . CONCORDIENSI$ 1 Jfednesday, Nov. 6, 1974 .'lfllc***************************t * * * * * * * * * * i Autumn i * * * * * by_ PETER SOBOl: * * * * * * * # The wind is cool, and all around t · * The trees prepare for Winter's snow; * : Let drift their bright-hued leaves to sew # : A golden carpet on the ground. t * * * * * * '* Autumn! Evening vj the Year. * # It speaks vj Summer's labors done, : : Rejoicing at the harvest won, : * And speaks tlJ all its promise clear. * * * * * * * * * * Of b\one-cold Winter weathered well, * * * * Cracklingfit:e af!d steadfast friends, * ~ Assured by all kind Summer sends. : * The work of rny own two hands will tell. * * * * * * * * *· fitc***************************f - Energy Crisis Continued from Page 3 previous year was approximately $110,000, while the bill for the coming year will approximate $280,000. This is an astou11ding cost for this school. The fi£ures on electricity could not be obtained. though when fuel doubles in price, lighting costs rise by about 5%. ln previous years, ti nion's heating system was one where the heat would be rammed do.wn the pipes and when a particular student got too hot, lte, Viould open up the window a.nd sleep under a sheet. The same system will with minor adjustmeilt be operating at Union this year. The reason for this is tbat Union's buildings are old and were designed when the price of fuel •was next to nothing. To cllange the heating of the building, the whole plumbing system would be needed ta'be revamped and the costs to do this Wotil<l be prohibitive, running into the millions of dollars. Most buildings are heated on a one zone system. One thermostat controls the heating for the building. It is set in a position that will read the coldest temperature that the building is 721 ALTAMO:-IT AVE. NO DELIVERY CHARGE WITH TWO PIZZAS WRD!Livt:IC 1JNnL MIDNIGHT' Ca037~ FERR0 1 S PHARMACY 'STUDENT DISCOUNr .J'I5NeCU!Jt. 37'74511~ exposed to. This is done to protect the pipes at the coldest point from freezing and bursting. Therefore the whole building is being pumped with enough heat They are also amassing energy to keep the coldest pipes from data on the school anc:l are also freezing. Under these conditions using the computer in order to the pipes are. v.ery comforta.ble refine the data into something and the people sweat. that .is intelligible and useful. Almost all the buildings on this Maintenance men are also campus need new heating trying to keep the machinery systems. Even relatively new serviceable. Many parts to. the dorms like Fox and Davidson heating plant are no longer were designed in pre-energy manufactured and Union must crunch days when fuel was stifl 2cc pay for special runs by factQries a gallon. South College, the for pieces of equipment. This oldest continuously lived in dorm, could take months. This situation was prQbably originally designed arose in Richmond dorm last year to run on whale's blubber. when a valve broke. There was no Webster House, which was way to regulate the heat for the converted to a donn a year ago, dprm at all, so it was \lSUally very had a whole new 5 zone system (5 hot, and for the school very thermostats controlling 5 areas of costly. the building). This small dorm Maintenance does request that cost over $50,000 to rehaul. all students who have problems The maintenance department is with the heating equipment in taking measures to try to improve their rooms to contact them. This the situation .. But they, like the is specifically din;cted at students entire nation are- confused due\to who have radiators in their cjorm ignorance of this situation of or fraternity. exactly what can be done to They are also looking, into ways significantly improve the of improving the efficiency of the situation. It is a complex main heating plant. An problem. One reasort is that data ~mulsifying system that exposes on just what the energy more ·of the, fuel for combustion consumption of this campus is and adds to the number of B.T. has not yet been fully ascertained. U's/ gallon. of f~el, produces an Previously no one really cared to increase in heating efficiency by know. Secondly, the problem as approximately 2&% to 30%. far as cost goes is out of Union's Whether this system would he hands. King Faisal has control of feasible and worthwhile for that situation. The supply of fuel Union's plant is still being oil is s ti II under federal examined. allocations, based otl previous Therefore, the cram heat-open consumption i·n an average window system will remain at winter. This winter is expected to Union for some time to come. be cold! If the college uses up one Students should be aware of the month's allocation they can start costs and turn off lights whenever on the next month's, but at some possible. But be proud of the fact point this overrun must be made that Union College is a .part of the up by cutting the allocations for progress of the industrial world some months:. · \ and that the unindustrialized Maintenance has taken several .people of Upper Volta still heat positive steps. They have reduced their homes with cow dung. the lighting in the buildingS in the Examining the price oLcow dung Science and Engineering it appears that Upper Volta may complex. The lighting fixtures not be as backward as one once illustrate the complexity of the thought. . . . . problem, for they contain Editor's Note: Concordiensis is transformers that use the same not advocating that Union amount of electricity whether one Col/Jge switch to the use of cow or five bulbs are on. So in cutting dung. We believe that · there's the number of bulbs, not much enough shit on this: campus wattage is really saved. already; News Briefs $kodak$ Union College has received an unrestricted grant of $6,750 from Eastman Kodak Co., Union President Thomas N. Bonner announced today. U ilion is one of 133 private, four-year colleges shar~ng in Kodak's 1974 Educational Aid Program. The grant is based on the number of Union graduates who joined the company within five yeats of graduation and who are currently fn their fifth year of employment. Kodak contributes $750 .for each graduate or undergraduate year completed by such employees. Encyclopedia SCHENECTADY, N.Y. -A set of the. \Encyclopedia of Philosophy\ has been donated to the Union College philosophy department in memory of the late Edward_ A. Corbett of Glens Falls. He was a member of the Union Class of 1973. , Mr. and Mrs. Thomas Corbett of Glens Falls made the presentation at a ceremony held recently in the Humanities Building. Their son, who was a philosophy major, died in January, 1973. Mr. and Mrs. Corbett also have established a fund to purchase works by and about the 18th century irish philo~op~er George Berkeley, in whom their son was particularly interested. Sculpture Located On Friday, October 25th the sculpture ''lcharus\ was stolen from its perch .in front of the Science and Engineering Center. As reported in Concordiensis previously (Oct. 30), there were no dues as to .the whereabouts of the approximately twenty foot taU sculpture. This reporter has learned, from an exclusive ·soifrce, that the sculpture has been recovered. It was found off campus in the \brook that bounds\ that's ()U the eastern side of Lenox Road. The sculpture, 'valued at. $1500, was given to the college as an anonymous gift. The sculpture was damaged only slightly, but will not be replaced in its former position until Vermont sculptor Tom Broomhall can come to Union to make necessary repairs.

comes now is· of us . a.t the ousing take is and Black. of Union Unio·n the it with other fblack It's frowns' and based itself, nd one the an of in non- in people serious nges in ~ould efforts of Black to be just live The well that over. If a new much the . the CONCORDIENSIS, Wednesday, NfJv. 6, 1974 ·' - After many exhausting hours of intensive deduction, the staff of Concordy has been .abfe to reduct! tJze machinations of student government to a bare minimum. These minimum machinations have .been represented above. See how simple it really is? ('ontinu~d from P.age 1 coll!mittees would appreciate suggesti()ns · and recommendati-ons. However, a Aew year is sta.rting soon; ' an<i, new members are pr(lsently being chosen for all co~ittees. It is !roped that if students becom~ more aware that the committees do exist, and begin to J;llake use of them. much more c<)uld be accomplish.ed . SteeY!nJ~ Committee \The Steering Comm'ittee IS m charge <if all stud~nt activities, funds 1 and co~mittees, and al,so. approves club constitutions: The committees undef the Steering Committee's jurisdiction are the Committee,.:().n Committees and the Co~duct Committee (both subc.onimittee.s t>r the Steering' Committ~e), the Elections Committ!le, Social Committee, Stud~nt Life Com!J1ittee, Tax Committee iiiii.t College Center Clommittee. The CondU:ct Committee supp9sedly 'e:xists to help rectify situations wherein a student's rights have been abridged. Its purpose_ is t<> serve as a place where stude:nts can complain about pr.()blems ranging from noisy neighbors to racist professors. This year, however, . only one or two cases have been brougltt : befote the committee. Eitltet life ()n. campus is really quite calm, R.A.'s are doing a gre!lt job, .or everyone is keeping quiet. A list of the newly elected members to each committee will appear next week. Students are urged to make their recommendations known to the committee netnbers. The Ali;.College 'Senate. The All-College Senate is the mos~ -powerful. governing ~ody -involving stGdents on campus. It consists of members. of the administration, faculty and the students. Tile Senate rules on issues which influence all aspects of life at Union, not merely student activities. lssues which come before the Senate include the calendar change, the grading change, .and the dog dilemma .. Most faculty and administrative· committees :report to the College Senate: Academic Troubles? A committee which does exist PREPARE FOR: LSAT/ :.~:r - I GIAIIUAfl GRE·. =AfiON IIEYIEW CGUII$ES lOW IEIM. FORIIEt-lVENI.I CLAS$EI ,,. lrJiornnati«t t011tcm~ JcueP.h A. Urso T£STIMG REVI6W S£RVIC! U Morweeld •~• .. llh11t' t2201 489-1254 (contrary to popular belief) is the annually College priorities and Committee on the Standing of consults both with appmpriate Students. This committee is a offices -of the adttlinis.tration and subcommittee of the Standards the Board's Financial Committee. Committee. \This subcommittee the Committee on Environmental is respollSible for reviewing the Res o u.r c e s a n d Campus records of those students Development, and the Long receiving lc;;ss tha~ a satisfactory Range Planning Committee.\ The term average. It alSo deals at Budget and Priorities Committee length with student petitio11s for helps mak~ up the budget of the readmission, and for excepti'On or College, which then must be modifications in graduation app . .lVed by the Board of requirements.\ .Trustee&. Members on the In sho.rt, this is the place where Committee strongly recommend students can go if they are put on _ that students make their priorities academic warning, special known. Student opi!lion does academic warning, or have simply seem to carry some weight. flunked ouL This is where Admission Procedures students ~n appeal their cases. Students hava been heard to However, it must be stres~ed that complain about .- the lack of the studen~ ~n the commttte~ ~re diversity of the student body here. not. respoP!1tble for detenmmng . There is a place where voicing this whtcb ~~udents s~ould be put on opinion might acc<tmplish .acaderntc wanung. etc: AU something. This is the Admissions a_ppeals mll$t be made through Committee. The committee has Oean Smith. \The . student. the .power to review decisions ~nd members of the Commtttee (on policy concerned with Admissions stan.d~ng of st!ldents) may procedures. parttctpate only 1R matters of A subcommittee of the g!lnerai policy and are e~clud~- ,Admissions Committee is the from the Commtttee s Comrn ittee on Academic consi~erations on i~dividual Opportunity. This comm.ittee cases, . as, th~ Comm1ttee .. on works closely with and sets up Commtttees hst of commtttee guidelines for the A.O.C .. functions reads. program. Security Hassles? New Courses Security has been lackillg this The Curricular Affairs year, and the Women's Caucus is ':ommittee (CAC) approves or trying to do something ab()Ut it. disapproves all suggestions for After m,·~h. running around the new courses. lis subcommittees caucus · 'to •• ded up at the are the Comp Ed and Educational Environmental Resources and Innovations Committees. All (:ampus . Development courses approved by the CAC Committee, which is also involved must in turn be voted on by the in Security and _Safety. A All-College Senate. proposal to install more lights Students who are worried around campus was intro~uced to about the direction· which the type this committee by. the Caucus. of courses being offered are The proposal was approved and is takin_g{such.as too general. or too ~w going to-~ conside~~ by th~ specific) should VDice · their Budget and Priorities Committee. objections to the mei;Ilbers of the The Development Committee is committee. also concerned with the Financial Pain? beautification of the campus, they . . . complain when ;he_ grass isn't W~a,~ 18 the .c~tter~on f?r mowed and the flower beds are obtammg student atd. Is tt a val~d unkempt. Any suggesti()ns on syste111:? The _Student Aid how to make Union prettier and Comm~ttee se~ the. standa.!ds for safer should be made to members awardmg fmanc1al ald to . . .. of this committee. students. Sdt 0 udents on the F . · . 1 Pr. T committee not vote on. tnanel!l aort •es · individual cases but arJI The . Bud.~et and Priorities concerned with the' policy of the Committee ts ?ne of the most school in awarding aid. All powerf~l commtttees on ca~pus~ recommendations for a change in Acco~dmg to the .~ 1 .tommlt~ees policy must be approved by the functions roster, reYtews Senate. 'Serving Union For Three Generations' ·. •166 Jay Ste • for fl uft\.~l Scr\ ece- . .:\nd (iuod .t~~~~· ~~~~~~~~~~-~·~-~~yi~·Ka~···~·~·~·--~~-~ii· ~· by JEFF BROOMES There is such a thing as Student Government on this campus. For all of you who do not know it, there is a Senate and a Steering C6i:nmittee. We care, and we want very much to help make this school a better place for everyone who decides to come here. We need an the help and assistance you can give to us. The only way we can have effective student government is if you, the student, want effective government. We are all willing and ready to work hard. We have a better opportunity to accqmplish much more than any previous administration. We can do something, so come on out and force us to do it. It is very easy to say you can accomplish more by working · outside of the governing bodies. Do this if you want, but then just shut up when other people say that student government is a farce. Give us a chance to work!! The Steering Committee has been trying, and will continue trying, to make students more familiar with hoW things are done on campus. If you have any questions or nave ideas about how things should be done, please let us know. If you do not know your representative, please call me at 370-6564. avoiding d·isaster James D. Barber, Political Science Professor at Duke University, will speak at Union on Thursday, November 14, at 8:00 p.m. in SSO 16. The title of Professor Barber's lecture is \Avoiding Disaster; Choosing Presidents After Watergate.\ predict the actions of future Presidents. He desires to \foresee. the climate of his administration, the mode with which he will approach the recurrent challenges and opportunities presented by the office.\ The lecture is sponsored by the Margaret Lester Meri:wrial Fund. This fund was founded to support lectures and other activities in the fields of Social Science. Ed. Note: We highly recommend this lecture to all students and faculty. . Anyone and every·one interested in enhancing their being through meditation is most welcome to attend one of the monthly presentations given on campus. The two remaining presentations this term are on Wednesday nights, Nov. 13th and Dec. 4th at 8:00 p.m. in Strauss Lounge. Barber, one of the nation's most prominent political scientists, has developed what he states is a \theory ·of attention, of where to look and what to look for\ when choosing presidents. He has used psychological interpretation····· of previous Presidents to develop a profile of their personalities. His analysis is not psychoanalytic, but rather emphasizes .. the ways that interpersonal experience shapes the person's self-image, his world- view and his political style, and how, in turn, these internalized lessons of experience are turned back to shape subsequent in terpersona.l experience.\ -'--;::::::;;;~~;;;;;;:;;;;;;;;::::::::;;:;;- Bar'ber is not concerned with developing character profiles on past Presidents; but, as the title of his lecture implies, he is concerned with being able to Daft's· Mens Sbop &1SIIdtst. (dowaiOWD_Scbcnectady) ~ ·~ YOU STAYED UP ALLNIC:HT STUDYINC: AND SLEPT THROUGH THE EXAM •. MAYBE WHAT YOU NEED IS A MAXIMUS SUPER. MaM•mus StJper Boor F X Miltt Brewmg Co, Ul1c~. NY ·

' :\ I• Pages Wednesdtzy7 Nov. 6~ 1974 Albany Symphony Igor Stravinsky's Rite of Sprina will be the feature work when ·the ~~bany Symphony Orchestra, ·Julius Hegyi,. Conductor and l\!1 usic Director, presents the third· program of its 1974-75 season. Also highlighted will be Richard Strauss' Horn Concerto No. 1 in E flat, with Peter Knott, soloist. Completing the program is Mozart's Po~thorn Serenade. The . performance is scheduled for Thursday, November 14 at the Memorial Cb.apel, U:nion College. Concert time is 8:30 P.M. The Rite of Spring took the music world by storm when it was premiered in Paris in 1913. Fights and riots broke out almost immediately, and Stravinsky was lucky to escape from the theatre unharmed. This work has been a major influence in twentieth century music. Strauss' Horn Concerto N(). 1 is a classic of the limited horn repertoire, and shows the ·influence of Mozart, whom Strauss idolized. Mozart's Posthorn Serenade is one of a qumber written by Mozart, and is named for tlJ.e unusual use of the posthorn in the sixth movement. The instrument is a forerunner of the military cornet. Peter Knott, soloist in the .Strauss Concerto, is the Principal Horn in both the Albany. Symphony Orchestra, and the Peter Knott, prmczpat horn oJ the Alha11y Symphony Orchestra. Berkshire Symphony. He can also be heard as one of the performers in the Music in the Round; Chamber series at Williams College. Tickets for the Schenectady performance may be obtained through Union College, (518)370- 6201. . . . by TOM MATTHEWS A Wind Ensemble has been started at Union to provide the opportunity for many instrumentalists to participate in a musical organization. The group , is open to all people associated with the college who play a . concert band instrument. In the spirit .of a smaU college we are encouraging students, faculty, administration and staff to actively participate. Rehearsals: The Wind Ensemble rehears~s Thursday nights between 7:30 and 9:30 :P.M. in Memorial Chapel, unless otherwise announced. Instruments: It is hoped that ' most players will bring their own instruments. If rental is necessary it will be possible to rent all of the instruments collectively at lower rates. Large percuss ion instruments will be provided by the college. If you own an instrument but do not wish to play in the band. please consider making it available for a friend to pla·y. Repertoire: The present Shittons Shine repertoire includes a standard wind ensemble collection with pieces by R. Vaughn Williams, Persichetti, Aaron Copland, Holst and Moussorgsky. Student compositions could he read or even performed in concert. Funds will be available in the future for expansion of the repertoire. Concerts: Concerts have been. tentatively planned for the middle of winter term and late spring term. Continued from Page 4 listener: rhe once accepted stomping, bumpings and grindings seemed out of place with the change to fancy clothes and platform shoes. With the audio and visual appeal gone, the .spectators left the gym. The dancers, however, could . not get enough of the Shittons and called them back for an .encore. Union C()llege is one of the last \<:hools to host the Shittons in . their present form. Having presented their 'Golden 0 ldies' show fQr over five years, their entire format will change in January when one of the girls will leave the band. Thereafter, the Shittons, will be playing only original material. If the Shittons are able to tighten up the new material to the level of their old, 'their success can be assured. FWJding: We expect to receive money from Student Activity. Smaller Musical Groups: The Wind Ensemble will likely act as a parent organization for smaller woodwind and brass ensembles. Conducting: Professor Waters,. Wind Ensemble at Union would( catch th'e interest of talented freshmen before tb.ey might be turned off to instrumental music, building a stronger organization every year. The idea of a large Wind Ensemble is not new at Union. There have been marching bands in the past and a bighly successful wind ensemble und'er .the direction of Professor Curtis in the early 1960's. Professor Waters' position in the Arts Department allows him to spend much of his time conducting the Student Orchestra and he'lping other instrumeatal groups to function productively. He is very interested in a Wind Ensemble at Union. It must be stressed that everyone at Union is welcome to play in this Win.<! Ensemble. No one can be \too oat of practice\ to try to play in the ensemble and certainly everyo11e co.uld get into practice by coming to rehearsals. Everyone is urged to come! will direct most rehearsals '\\lith tlte option for well qualified students to conduct. Information: For . further infor,mation feel free to contact the following people: Professor Emory Waters .(Arts Department), 3 70-6201 Tom Matthews - President (Annex)~ 374·7342 Karen Weischedel - Librarian; Treasurer (301 West), 364-9344 rhe stimulus for a Wind Ensemble at Union College Js the nl.lillber of instrumentalists that in recent years have been left Qtlt of campus musical activities. Opportunities for wind players at Union have been limited te the Nmtheastern Student Orchestra, and a few small ensembles which c()u!d accept only a few of the many wind players available. The result has been a great waste of talent. When rejected in their fresh:ma:n year most people will no longer attempt to participate in instrumental organizations. A · re lunacy.*. u p~oari<lusly- ~//'! ';/ l' '\\ t I ' .nnyi'~-TIM:/i. ~.~.]~~ Jl 011 ~· . 'I. rcLjfr 1 , ~ I ; ~- / --~--- · . . '/ ~\ \ q\ . _.....,:.,...--·n\\\W.......;} . ~ ' ,, _ .. ~ {~JJ )l \ ·~w rl .......... lArlV. ,, I \ J I ~~L-- .. ~.~ '\' \---.U.I.. ', ~. '\\'' ...... _ \\ \ ,/ '. \\ ;/\\;? ~,,, :::--=-- . . /J, ,/~,1 \\ r . -- ·,:;;;.;;...,._;:~,Ji <ij4Y ·\'~~· ''A· riot~ T fun·.nies.t.. ·~~ce x Bro. s~ 4) .# ~~Ol'SetLE photo by Rail JCJhnson Tuesday night~ November 12, the Film Committe(!! presents \'The Producers\ with Zero Mostel and Dicic'\ · Shawn, at 8 and 10 in SS016. ::t:fr:=======~,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,~,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,;,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,:,,,,,,,,,,,,,f,,,,,,:,,,;,,,,,(,,;,:;::::::;:(:=~=:=;=====;::::======~=:W hat' s Going 0 n==.========~:===i :====~======w==~=~==~===~==========m===============~===~===========~======================~==~~,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,~,,j,,,~,,,,~;:;===========m===~==:==~==~======m by MIKE AFFINITO Music Films Nov. 7: S.E.M. Ensemble, Free Music Store, 8:30, Lab N 7 \D' t Ch f h B · · \ 8 30 s Th P rf · A c suNy Alb · ov. : 1:scree arm o t e ourgeoJste , : , t. · Fr::.tre, e ormmg rts enter, · · · · at any, Joseph's HaH, College of St. Rose, 47!,-5102. Nov. 8: The Williams Trio, 8:30, Thompson Memorial . ~ov. 7 = :rhe. Grapes of Wrath.. 7 p.m., Saratoga Ch 1 wu· c 11 (413) 5 9 7 • 2127 Spnngs Pubhc Library, Saratoga Sprmgs. Free, N ape • 8 B 1 1 ~mls P 0 h.elhge, . N' k · H .. h S h 1 Nov. 9: \Tale of Two Rivers\; \Anansi TJ: Srider\ 11 ov. : uua o 1 armomc, Is ayuna tg c oo , d 1 d 3 B .... call372-8976 or 377-9626. a.m. a~ ~n. p.m., anner Hall, IVJ.,seum, State . EducatiOn Bmldmg Albany. Free. Nov. 8: Dr. Paul Manz, organ rec1tal, 8 pm, St. Paul's --. ---·- ' · · . . e isco al Church Hackett Blvd. Alban . 355-1770. Nov. lO: Ca~ous~l, 2 pm, Large Commulllty Room, P P . ' . . Y Bethlehem Public Library, Delmar, Free. . Nov. 10. Grace D1Batt1sta, soprano, 8 pm. Schenectady Nov. ll: ·~The Madwoman of Chatllot\ 8:30, St. Light Opera House, 826 State St., Schenectady, 393-5732. Jo phs Hall c lle ·f·St R G 10 11 K I \d \M . f G d 11 \. se ' o ge o . ose. ov. • : a e1 oscope, · uslc ro111 ° spe '. Nov. 11: \Black Orpheus,\ Camus, (1960), 7 pm, Rm. 8:30, The Arts Center, Holy Names Campus, New 307, Ladd Hall,Skidmore, 584-5000. Scotland Rd., Albany. 4~2-3331: . Nov. 8: \Tbe Lady With A Dog\ College Film Series, Nov. 7-9: Dave McKmna, ptano, 9:30, Perstan Room, sso 16 8 -U · · Mid-City Shopping Center, Menands, 465-1333. No; l1~: .. :·~· k k 0 \ SSO Nov. 8-9: Harvest, rock, 10-2:3(), Shaker's Steakhouse pm u~· . · oc wor range 16, 7, 9:30, 12 and Ja.z:z Emporium, 217 River St., Troy, $1.00 cover, 272- ' 100 ' - Tbru Nov. 10: Some Realists, paintings and sculptures, Hawthorn Gallery, Skidmore. Tlnu Nov. 17: Sculpture of Cyprus, University Art Gallery., S. U.N.Y. at A:lbany. 457-6923. Tbru Nov. 17: Dan Budnik, photographs, \Tenninal Iron Works\ and \Alban:Y Medical Center Perceived,\ University Art Gallery, S.U .N~Y. at Albany. Tbm No\ ' Alice Pauline Schafer, prints, Harmanus Bleecker Library, 19 Dove St., Albany 465-1463. Tbrll Nov. 30: 20th Century American Painting, \\V()rks from State Museums, Executive Mansion, Albany. Tbru the Fall: The Elegant Academics, paintings and photos of the history of Williamstown, Clarlc Art Institute, Williams Colle~e. Lectures, Etc. NClv. 7: Salnmguddi lecture: Lionel Abel; \Wrong and Right: The Comic Ima~inati()n\. 7:30, Starbuck Center~ Skidmore. '0944. Nov. 9: \The Rafters At Union\ 9-1 .pm, Alumni Gym, Theater NClv. 7: Victor Papenelc, ·~Functional Systems for the· Union. Coffee Houses Nov. 8-ltl: B.C. Cameron, country singer and writer, Caffe Lena, 47 Phila St., Saratoga Spring's. 584-9789. Nov. 9: Country Dance, Bethlehem Coffeehouse, 125 Adams St., Delmar, 8:30,439-9827. . Nov. 7·\: Michael Lewis, pianist and singer, 8:30, • Mother's Wine Emporium, R.P,l. · Nov. 12: Kirsh and Montgomery, Ragtime Saloon · • Music, Roger Bacon Hall, 202,' Siena College, 8:30-10:30. . . Nov. 8: rhe Stony Creeks and Jeff Bernstein, 8:30, Old • Chapel, Union. Nov. 8-9: ~·Lovers and Other Strangers, experimental Poor, the Handicapped, and the Third World,\ Noon in theatre, 7:3() and 9 p.m., Performing Arts Center, Multi-rnedia Theatre, Junior College of Albany. 270-2246. S.U.N.Y. at Albany, 457-8606, free wit.h ticket. NClv. 8: \How Prints Are Macle\ presented by A.lice Nov. 8-9: , .. Marat/Sade\ R.P.I. Players, 8:30, 15th St. Pauline Schafer, 12:15 pm, Harmanus Bleecker Library, Lounge, R.P.l., 270-6503. _ · 19 Dove St., Albany, 465-1463. Nov. 8-10: \Love Rides .thel Rails\ melodtama, 8:30 N.()V. 9: Mrs. Lyman JO>hnson, \Focus\, environmental 'pm, mat. Sun. at 2:30,. St. Joseph's Hall, College of St. lecture, 3:30, Planetcr: ,,m, Schenectady Museum, Rose. Schenectady. . Nov. 8-10: You Can't Take It With You\ 8 p.m., Nott N.()v. 8: Philosophy Senii11ar, Mr. AI Flores Presents Mentorial Tlleatre, Union. \The Ptoblem Of Amnesty'\ 3:00 pm, Hu. 213. Union. Nov. 7: Prof.' Jerome C()hen, Harvard LaW: S(bcJOI, Art Nov. 7 thru 22: Carol Haerer, paintings and Schacht Fine Arts Center Russell Sage. \La..v and Justice In China\ 8 pm, SS016, Union. . Nov. 6: Joe Sorrentino. \Organized Crime: The Mafia drawmgs, Goes Mad\8-1l pm, Saran Hall, Siena College. ~~~· . • • pRI~EWAY INNS • Luxury Appointed Rooms • Affordable· Rates •Co/of TV 1616 STATE STREET . Intersection Rts. 5 & 7 Nex.t to Howard Johnsons Schenectady, N.Y. (518)370-30.00 ACE CARDS & GIFTS 175 JAY STREET (off State) COME SEE OUR VARIETY OF ANY OCCASION AND HOLIDAY CA~DS. . .. COME ONEANDALL: Let us help y()u .11et iil the proper mood to go and cheer at the fo()tbail game. First fl)l' a high scoring victory o•ver Middlebury and secondl:y fCJr either a north or south side Of Davidso11 Dorm victory during the tug .,r war at half time. Stop in at:. 'Moffett's Liquor Store· 1SOS VAN VRANKEN AVE. SCHENECTAD\i' NY 12308 - - .... - '\' - h h h fj I ~

Page8 Igor Stravinsky's Rite of Spring will be the feature work when the Albany Symphony Orchestra, Julius Hegyi, Conductor and music Director, presents the third program of its 1974-75 season. Also highlighted will be Richard Strauss' Horn Concerto No. l in E flat, with Peter Knott, soloist. Completing the program is Mozart's Posthorn Serenade. The performance is schecduled for Thursday, November 14 at the Memorial Chapel, Union College. Concert time is 8:30 P.M. The Rite of Spring took the mu~ic world by storm \<hen it was premiered in Paris in 1913. Fights and riots broke out almost immediately, and Stravinsky was lucky to escape from the theatre unharmed. This work has been a maJor influence in twentieth century music. Strauss' Horn Concerto No. lis a classic of the limited horn repertoire, and ;.hows the influence of Mozart, whom Strauss idolized. Mozart's Posthorn Serenade is one of a !')Umber written by Mozart, and is named for the unusual use of the posthorn in the sixth movement. The instrument is a forerunner of tht: military cornet. Peter Knott, soloist in the .Strauss Concerto, is the Principal Horn in both the Albany Symphony Orchestra, and the Peter Knutt, prmczpai hvrn u.J the Albany Symphony Orchestra. Berkshire Symphony. He can also be heard as one of the performers in the Music in the Round Chamber senes at Williams College. Tickets for the Schenectady performance may be obtained through Union College, (5 !8)370- n201. Shittnns Shine Continued from Page 4 listener: The once accepted ~tamping, bumpings and grindings seemed out of place with the change. to fancy clothes and platform shoes. With the audio and visual appeal gone, the . spectators left the gym. The dancers, however, could not get enough of the Shittons and called them back for an encore. Union College is one of the last ~r.hools to host the Shittons in their present farm. Having presented their 'Golden Oldies' show for over five years, their entire format will change in January when one of the girls will leave the band. Thereafter. the Shittons, will be playing only original material. If the Shittons are able to tighten up the new material to the level of their old, their success can be assured. by TOM MATTHEWS A Wind Ensemble has been started at Unian to provide the opportunity for many instrumentalists to participate in a musical organizati<m. The group is open to aU people associated with the college who play a concert band il'lstrument. In the spirit of a smal'l college we are encouragin.g students, faculty, administration and staff to actively participate. Rehearsals: The Wind Ensemble rehearses Thursday nights between 7:30 and 9:30 P.M. in Memorial Chapel, Hnless otherwise announced. Instruments: It is hoped that· most players will bring their own instruments. If reHtal is necessary it will be possible to rent all of the instruments collectively at lower rates. Large percussion instruments will be provided by the college. If you own an instrument but do not wish to play in the band, please coHsider making it available for a friend to play. Repertoire: The present repertoire includes a standard wind ensemble collection with pieces by R. Vaughn Williams, Persichetti, Aaron Copland, Holst and Moussorgsky. Student compositions could be read or even performed in concert. Funds will be available in the future for expansion of the repertoire. Concerts: Concerts have been tentatively planned for the middle of winter term and late spring term. Funding: We expect to receive money from Student Activity. Smaller Musical Gronps: The Wind Ensemble will likely act as a parent organization for smaller woodwind and brass ensembles. Conducting: Professor Waters, Wind Ensemble at Union would· catch the interest of talented freshmen before they might be turned off to ins·trumental music, bui•lding a stronger organization every year. The idea of a large Wind Ensemble is not new at Union. There have been roaching bands in the past and a highly successful wind ensemble under the direction of Professor Curtis in the early l9@0's. Professor Waters' position in the Arts Department allows him to spend much of his time conducting the Student Orchestra and helping other i nstrumenta! groups to function productively. He is very interested in a Wind Ensemble at lJ nion. It must be stressed that everyone at Union is welcome to play in this Wind Ensemble. No one can be \too out of practice\ to try to play in the ensemble and certainly everyone could get into practice by coming to rehearsals. Everyone is urged to come! will direct most rehearsals with the option for well qualified students to conduct. lnf.ormation: For . further · info.rmation feel free to contact the fallowing people: Professor Ernory \Vate.vs (Arts Department), 370-620 I Tom Matthews - Pfesident (Annex), 374-7342 Karen Weischedel - Librarian; Treasurer (30 I West), 364\9 344 The stimulus for a Wind Ensemble at Union College is the number of instrumentalists that in recent years have been left out of campus musical actiVIties. Opportunities for wind players at Union have been limited to the Northeastern Student Orchestra, and a few small ensembles which could accept only a few of the many wind players available. The restllt has been a great waste of talent. When rejected in their fresh~nan year most people will no longer attempt to participate in instrumental organizations. A ~PPure ly,r~cy ... :'!W~ari.P.~sly / funny. -TIME l : .~~11 ·;- ~~\]- / ' I~ ') . ,. ~~ . \ ·'- . .........._~\~- ·, ~ ('(~61} , .. ,. ~y \ \. ~ .. - ·• I' ''- ~\- . .: - -~ /' ... ~~·- , \~I ~ \- ;: .• /. ·;.::>---. . !,;#\// .v:: ,'. r, ... - :-.,1···~ / ~ \' - J ~~ '\' • : .~· ~~--~~ f'·'\' \ >'' ~ • •i$ A riot. The funniesf~itite the Marx Bro ers.~~', pboto by Rat. Johnson Tuesday night, November 12, the Film Committee presents \The Producers\ with Zero Mastel and Dick Shawn, at 8 and 10 in SSOJ6. r,,,,,.,,, ,, ,,,,,,,,,,,,, , ''\\\''''''' , ,,,~'\''''''\'''''''\'\'\'\''What \ s G o in g 0 n ,,.,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,, ,,,,~, .. ,,,,,,,,,,, ,,,,,,,,,,,:;::,,,.,,, ,,,,,,,, :==========;;::::= ,,,,,,,:;;;,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,~ '' by MIKE AFFINITO Music . Nov. 7: S.E.M. Ensemble, Free Music Store, 8:30, Lab ·:'Theatre, Performing Arts Center, S.U.KY. at Albany, :Free. . Nov. 8: The Williams Trio, 8:30, Thompson Memorial :=Chapel, Williams College, ( 413) 597-2127. · Nov. 8: Bnffalo Philharmonic, Niskayuna High School, . : call 372-8976 or 377-9626. '' Nov. 8: Dr. Paul Manz, organ recital, 8 pm, St. Paul's ·episcopal Church, Hackett Blvd. Albany. 355-1770. Nov. 10: Grace DiBattista, soprano, 8 pm. Schenectady ···Light Opera House, 826 State St., Schenectady, 393-5732. · Gov. 10-11: Kaleidoscope, \Music from Godspell,\ · 8:30, The Arts Center, Holy Names Campus, New Scotland Rd., Albany. 482-3331. Nov. 7-9: Dave McKinna, piano, 9:30, Persian Room, . Mid-City Shopping Center, Menands, 465-1333. Nov. 8-9: Harvest, rock, 10-2:30, Shaker's Steakhouse ·and Ja;:z Emporium, 217 River St., Troy. $1.00 cover, 272- . 0944. Nov. 9: \The Rafters At Union\ 9-1 pm, Alumni Gym, • Union. Coffee Houses . Nov. 8-10: B.C. Cameron, country singer and writer, • Caffe Lena, 47 Phila St., Saratoga Springs. 584-9789. · Nov. 9: Country Dance, Bethlehem Coffeehouse, 125 · Adams St., Delmar, 8:30, 439-9827. Nov. 7-9: Michael Lewis, pianist and singer, 8:30, .• Mother's Wine Emporium, R.P.l. Nov. 12: Kirsh and Montgomery, Ragtime Saloon · Music, Roger Bacon Hall, 202, Siena College, 8:30-10:30. · Nov. 8: The Stony Creeks and Jeff Bernstein, 8:30, Old • Chapel, Union. Films Nov. 7: \Discreet Charm of the Bourgeoisie\. S:30, St. Joseph's Hall, College of St. Rose, 471-5!02. Nov. 7: \The Grapes of Wrath,\ 7 p.m., Saratoga Springs Public Library, Saratoga Springs. Free. Nov. 9: \Tale of Two Rivers\; '\Anansi n Sr!der\ II a.m. and I and 3 p.m., Banner:: Hall, w, .,.;e~m. State Education Building, Albany. Free. Nov·. 10: ·carousel, 2 pm. Large Community Room, Bethlehem Public Library, Delmar, Free. Nov. 11: \The Madwoman <Jf Ch~ullot\ S:30, St. Josephs Hall, College of St. Rose. Nov. 11: \Black Orpheus,\ Camus. (!960), 7 pm, Rm. 307, Ladd Hall, Skidmore, 584-5000. Nov. 8: \The Lady With A Dog\ College Film Series, SSOI6, 8 pm, Union . Nov. 9-10: \A Clockwork Orange\ SS016, 7, 9:30, 12 pm, Union. Theater Nov. 8-9: \Lovers and Other Strangers, experimental theatre, 7:30 and 9 p.m., Performing Arts Center, Thru Nov. 10: Some Realists, paintings and sculptures, Hawthorn Gallery, Skidmore. Thru Nov. 17: Sculpture of Cyprus, University Art Gallery, S.U.N.Y. at Albany. 457-6923. Thru Nov. 17: Dan Budnik, photographs, ••rerminal Iron Works\ and \Albany Medical Center Perceived.\ University Art Gallery, S. U.N. Y. at Albany . Thru No~· Alice Pauline Schafer, prints, Harmanus Bleecker Lihary, 19 Dove St., Albany 465-1463. Thru Nov. 30: 20th Century American Painting, works from State Museums, Executive Mansion, Albany. Tbru the Fall: The Elegant Academics, paintings and photos of the history of Williamstown, Clark Art Institute, Williams College. Lectures, Etc. Nov. 7: Salmagu>~di lecture: Lionel Abel, \Wrong and Right: The Comic Imagination\. 7:30, Starbuck Center, Skidmore . Nov. 7: Victor Papenek, \Functional Systems for the Poor, the Handicapped, and the Third World,\ Noon in Multi-media Theatre, Junior College of Albany. 270-2246. S.U.N.Y. at Albany, 457-8606, free with ticket. Nov. 8-9: \Marat/Sade\, R.P.I. Players, 8:30, Lounge, R.P.I., 270-6503. Nov. 8: \How Prints Are M:>de\ presented l>y Alice 15th St. Pauline Schafer, 12:15 pm, Harmanus Bleecker Library, Nov. 8·10: \Love Rides. the: Rails\ melodrama, lUO pm, mat. Sun. at 2:30, St. Joseph's Hall, College of St. Rose. Nov. 8-10: You Can't Take It With You\ 8 p.m., Nott Memorial Theatre, Union. 19 Dove St., Albany, 465-1463. Nov. 9: Mrs. Lyman Johnson, \Focus·· environmental lecture, 3:30, Planet;:r ··,m, Schenectady 1v1 use urn, Schenectady. Nov. 8: Philosophy Seminar, Mr. AI Flores Presents \The Problem Of Amnesty\ 3:00pm, Hu. 213. Union. Nov. 7: Prof.· Jerome Cohen, Harvard LaY>. School, Art \Law and Justice In China\ 8 pm, SS016, Union. . . Nov. 6: Joe Sorrentino, \Organized Crime: The Mafia Nov. 7 ~hru 22: Carol Haerer, pamtmgs and drawings, Goes Mad\ 8-11 pm, Sarah Hall, Siena College . Schacht Fme Arts Center, Russel! Sage. ::::· : . :· :. :. - :::.: ,::: :··:::: :. ·:· ;:· :·. ... :· • Luxury Appointed Rooms •Affordable Rates ACE CARDS & GIFTS COME ONE AND ALL: Let us help you get in the proper mood to go and cheer at the football game. First for a high scoring victory over Middlebury and second!~ for either a north or south side of Davidson Dorm victory during the tug of war at half time. Stop in at: • pRIMEWAY INNS •Color TV 1616 STATE STREET Intersection Rts. 5 & 7 Next to Howard J ohnsons Schenectady, N.Y. (518)370-3000 175 JAY STREET (off State) COME SEE OUR VARIETY OF ANY OCCASION AND HOLIDAY CA~DS. Moffett's Liquor Store 1505 VAN VRANKEN AVE. SCHENECTADY, NY 12308 '~ .. . . .. r r r f I

h d t e- e CONCORDIENSIS,, Wednesday, Nov. 6,1974 Florentine Funnies Florence,· ltaly. Oct. 12: We have. been having awful weather here in Florence so picture taking has been difficult but here are a few of us clowning around in a -- - city' about one hour from Florence, called Siena. We came to this town for the day to visit museums and churches: Photos by Carol Hill Cindy Britton is in front of a fountain in the Pallazzo Publico of Siena .. \- '~- 'tl . Ann Pomaranc, Debbie Stein, Sue Rich and Lorna Stevens in the Palazzo Publico, Siena . .. (From left to right) Larry Levitz, Bruce Harvey, Steve Sensenig, Robert Brown and Mark Manus in a \Ristorante\ in Siena. The painting in the background is a copy, an awful copy, of a famous fresco by an artist named Simone Martini who lived in the 1300's. .. tevrs by PETER SOBOL You win some, you lose some, and some get rained ·out. It should have rained on last week's Cabaret, but it did not. The consequences have hopefully had a profound effect on the Caban;':t managerial staff, and if they have, next week's show and all the Ca·barets from now until Judgement Week will be better for it. The shows were opened by tlte Jazz band of Squid, Inc. There was nothing wrong. with their music and they ought to be back soon. The;:n came the mainstage shows. The first of these was Mary Vetterling of the philosophy · department playing a piano piece by Ravel. It was a difficult piece, . but Ms. Yetterling played it without a hitch and with a sensitivity which it was a pleasure to experience. It is a shame that the rest of the show could not live Some of the Radio Acrobats. Whflt next? up to her performance. There were then shown two Drawing once again on Woody movies made by l?rof. Moorhead Allen, the Radio Acrobats with music by Prof. Waters. Once performed his radio play of again, I am sure that these works Hasidic Tales. The lucky soul of art have a message and a mood who had gone through about a · of their own, but it is not Cabaret pitcher and a half of non-cider material. Like a bucket with a may have gotten three laughs out slow leak, the audience trickled of that. The Acrobats then read, slowly out the door as scene upon without too much trouble, Edgar dreary scene of murky water Allen Poe's \The Raven\ rippling and flowing was thrown prefacing the reading by noting up on the screen. If the murky how appropriate it was for water was not enough to drive Halloween. \The Raven\ is a you out tlie \music\ was equal to timeless poem, but it is not the task. If you have ever seen an Cabaret Halloween material. elephant stampede on the late night movies, you have heard the sounds which accompanied the films. lt was like a double-header bad dream .. This week's Cabaret will feature some return performances and some newcomers. The times have been changed again.. The first show is from 9:00 to 10:30 and the second is from II :00 to 12:30. Everybody is allowed to make a mistake, so come to Cabaret and shake off your law board scores. Cabaret is the only place like it. -Law in China THURSDAY NIGHT'S CABARET NEW TIMES! NEW TIMES! Jerome Cohen ·is generally reputed to be the leading scholar in the United States on Chinese law. He will speak on .. Law and Justice in China\ this Thursday night at 8 P.M. in the Social Science Auditorium. Cohen has been a Professor of Law at Harvard Law School since 1965. His reputation as a scholar on Chinese law began with the publication of his book The Criminal Process in the People's Republic of China 194()-1963: An Introduction in 1968. Since then he has co-authored three other • books on Chinese law and presently, a book he has co- edited,· entitled China's Legal Tradition, is scheduled for publication in 1975. Cohen may be considered an expert of sorts on American law as well. A graduate of Yale law school in 1955, he served as a law secretary for the United States Supreme Court under Chief Justic Warren from 1955 to 1956 and under Justice Frankfurter from 1956 to 1957. Before accepting his post at Harvard, Cohen taught law at the University of California at Berkeley for several years. ·-- -- Program I ':00-10.:30 Leslie Goldstein - guitar Woody Shoemaker • guitar Rob ·Haun and Harvey Roberts EH Foxman • poetry reading Silent Film with Howie Grossberg on piano Program II 11:00-12:30 Same as Program I The seating capacity of the Cabaret is 75 persons. Come early and get to the first show if you can; it i~ always less crowded. Although Cohen's academic background certainly fits him into the tnold of the Harvard Law Schoo[ professor, his peers at Harvard have attested to the fact that he is not at all like the Hctitious Professor Kingsfield, the ivory tower in the movte The Paper Chase. Rather, his office door is always open and he is readily accessible to stuqents. In view of such credentials Professor Cohen's lecture of Thursday night should be a memorable one. DaYe's' Mens·Siaop· e3.$tateSt.- A HARVARD MBA? YOU HAD ALL THE. ANSWERS UP · YOUR SLEEVE Newest Lunch 715 ALBANY ST. The oldest lunch ·in the area. MGre than 50 years we serve First · Pri~ bot dogs with the original famous sauce. Also different s~l dinners everyday~ We are GPfn 7 days a week - weekend tDI 4. ViSit Newest Lunch. Good · Dla~e t9 Eat. Discuss the Master in Business Administration Program with an Admissions Representative from the . Harvard Business School Tuesday, 19 November OFFICE· OF CA.REER PLACEMENT - . No courses or areas of concentration are required for admission. BUT YOU PUT ON THE WRONCSHIRl MAYBE WHAT YOU NEED IS A MAXIMUS SUPER MmomuS Super Beer. F. X. Matt er~wlng Co, Ulica. N.Y.

ith er he In of at he he he of A i d CONCORDJENS/S, Wednesday, .Nov. 6, 1974 Page 9 Florentine Florence, Italy. Oct. 12: We have been having awful weather here ia Florence so picture taking has been difficult but here are a few of us clowning arouHd in a Funnies city about one h0ur from Florence, called Siena. We came to this town for the day to visit museums and churches: Photos by Carol Hill Cindy Britton is in front of a fountain in the Pallazzo Publico of Siena. 'i Ann Pomaranc, Debbie Stein, Sue Rich and Lorna Stevens in the Palazzo Publico, Siena. (From left to right) Larry Levitz, Bruce Harvey, Steve Sensenig, Robert Brown and Mark Manus in a \Risturante\ in Siena. The painting in the background is a copy, an awful copy, of a famous fresco by an artist named Simone Martini who lived in the 1300's. ·LeV.:t'S.· . ' ' • by PETER SOBOL You win some, you l'ose som.e, and some get rained out. lt should have rained on last week's Cal:>aret, but it did not. The consequences have hopefully had a profound effect on the Cabaret managerial staff, and if they have, next week's show and aU the Cabarets from now unti!l Judgement Week will be better for it. lhe shows were opeHed by the Jazz band of Squid, Inc. There was nothing wrong with their m MSic and they 01:1ght to be back soon. Then came the mainstage shows. The first of these was Ma·ry Vetterling of the philosophy department playing a pian0 piece by Ravel. It was a difficult piece, but Ms. Vetterling played i:t without a hitch and with a sensitivity which it was a pleasure to experience. It is a shame that the rest of the show could not live up to her performance. Drawing once again on Woody Allen, the Radio Acrobats performed his radio play of Hasidic Tales. The lucky soul who had gone through about a pitcher and a half of non-cider may have gotten three laughs ()Ut of that. The Acrobats then read, without too much trouble, Edgar Allen Poe's 'The Raven\ prefacing the reading by noting how appropriate it was for Halloween. \The Raven\ is a timeless poem, but it is not Cabaret Halloween materiaL Law in China Jerome Cohen is generally reputed to be the leading scholar in the United States on Chinese law. He will speak on \Law and Justice in China\ this Thursday night at 8 P.M. in the Social Science Auditorium. Cohen has been a Professor of Law at Harvard Law School since 1965. His reputation as a scholar on Chinese law began with the publication of his book fbe Criminal Process in the People's Republic of China 1949-1963: An Introduction in 196~. Since tilen he has co-authored three other books on Chinese law and presently. a book he has co- edited, entitled China's Legal Tradition, is scheduled for publication in 1975. Cohen may be considered an expert of sorts on American law as well. A graduate of Yale law scho<Jl in 1955, he served as a law secretary for the United States Supreme Court under Ch.ief Jus tic Warren from 1955 to 19 56 and under Justice frankfurter from 1956 to 1957. Before accepting his post at Harvard, Cohen taught law at the University of California at Berkeley for several years. ·--- ~ • • A HARVARD MBA? Newest Lunch 715 ALBANY ST. The oldest lunch in the area. More than 50 years we serve First · Prize hot dogs with the original fllJIIous sauce. Also different special dinners everyday. We are open 7 days a week - weekend tDI 4. Visit Newest Lunch. Good olaee to Eat. Discuss the Master in Business Administration Program with an Admissions Representative from the Harvard Business School Tuesday, 19 November OFFICE OF CAREER PLACEMENT No courses or areas of concentration are requir.tid for ~ admission. 1 Some of the Radio Acrobats. Wh_at next? There were then shown two movies made by l?rof. Moorhead with music by Prof. Waters. Once again, I am sure that these works of art have a message and a mood of their own, but it is not Cabaret material. Like a bucket with a slow leak, the audience trickled slowly out the door as scene upon dreary scene of murky water rippling and flowing was thrown up on the screen. If the murky water was not enough to drive you out the \music\ was equal to the task. If you have ever seen an elephant stampede on the late night movies, you have heard the sounds which accompanied the films. It was like a double-header bad dream. This week's Cabaret will feature sorne return performances and some newcomers. The times have been changed again. The first show is from 9:01l to 10:30 and the second is from II :00 to 12:30. Everybody is allowed to make a mistake, so come to Cabaret and shake off your law board scores. Cabaret is the only place like it. THURSDAY NIGHT'S CABARET NEW TIMES! NEW TLMES! Program I 9:00-10:30 Leslie Goldstein - guitar Woody Shoemaker - guitar Rob Haun and Harvey Roberts Elf F oxrnan - poetry reading Silent Film with Howie Grossberg on piano Program II 11:00-12:30 Same as Program I The seating capacity of the Cabaret is 75 persons. Come early and get to the first show if you can; it is always less crowded. Although Cohen's academic background certainly fits him into the mold of the Harvard Law School professor, his peers at Harvard have attested to the fact that he is not at all like the fictitious Professor Kingsfield, the ivory tower in the movie fhe Paper Chase. Rather, his office door is always open and he is readily accessible to stuqents. In view of such credentials Professor Cohen's lecture of Thursday night should be a memorable one. YOU HAD ALL THE.MSWERS UP YOUR SLEEVE BUT YOU PUT ON THE WRONC SHIRT. MAYBE WHAT YOU NEED 15 A MAXIMUS SUPER Malumus Super Beer F X Matt Brew•ng Co , Ultca, NV.

Page 10. CONCORDJE'JVSIS, _ We~nesday, Nvv. 6; 1974 BLITHER The ad hoc Committee of the Steering Committee that i~ investigating the form and responsibilities of ·student government at Union in order to draw lip a new Constitution; will meet again to talk with interested students on Sunday, November 10 at 7:30 P.M. Dean Smith, and possibly Provost Entenuin will be attending. All members of the college community are welcome to the meeting, which v;ill be held in Strauss Lounge. * * *' * To all those who know graduates awaiting yearbooks: The Ul').ion Bodk is sincerely sorry for the delay. The majority of the yearbooks have ju£t been put in the mail. Please\' be patient. · * * *' * Ap~lications for the 1974 Professional Qualification Test for . L1 beral Art~ t.naj ots interested in a career with th~ · National Sec~nty A~~ncy, .are available now at the Placement Off1ce. Deadlme for the Nov. 23 test is Nov. 15. * * * * Professor Patrick Allen's Ad Hoc Tenure Committee will be happy to receive written comments on his candidacy from anyone in the college c<Jmmunity, Letters should be sent to Professor LeClerc in the Humanities Building. '*' * * * Ever been on a Road Rally? Like to find out what one is? A group of Union students is trying to form a Rally Club. All interested students should come to a meeting in the Social Sciences Lounge November -12 at 7:30. If you can't make the meeting, call Hunt at 377-0051. * * .. *· The next meeting of~the Student-Faculty Bridge Club will te held on Tuesday. November 29 at 7:45 P.M. in the Hale House Upper Lounge. The last, meeting had the biggest turnout in two years. The results of the last tournament are: North-South: First Place - Goodrnan-Spivak Second Place -:- White-Lee Third Place- Wamer-Desrochers East-West: First Place - Profs. Goodheart and Bacon Second. Place~ Baker-Weisburg Third Place - F oy-Wingerath * * * * A presentation by Mr. Vernon Penner '62, of the State Department in Washington. Mr. Penner has served in Poland and is a specialist in East-European Studies. This Saturday, Nov. 9, U:CJD a.m. in Social Sciences Faculty Lounge. Anyone interested in State Deparment careers invited. * * * * The Table Tennis Chzb will hold its first meeting in Strauss lounge, Carnegie Hall this Sunday, Nov. 9 at 7:30 p.m. * * ... * \The Rafters at Union\ jointly sponsored by Davidson House and WRUC, v;ill be held in Alumni Gym this Saturday, November 9 from 9 p.m. to l a.m. Admission at the door is one dollar. Those who place bets on the North- South tug-of-war ma:y gain admission cheaply. Betting receipts are available in Student Activities as well as through the Davidson R.A.s and bookies. All proceeds will go to the furnishing of the Davidson lounge. Your participation is greatly appreciated. * * * * As of Monday, November 11 there will be in effect an mtomatic fine of $25 for unregistered cars. * * * * The ad hoc Committee on the status of women will be holding weekly luncheon meetings on Mondays, beginning Nov. II from 12 to 1:30; room 201 Carnegie. All women are invited to attend. An Open Letter decided to cancel my yearly to the contribution to Union College. Union College What is the institution coming Community: to? What does this mean to Last week I happened to generations yet unborn? pass by the Cabaret at a late Respectfully Yours, hour .. Drawn by the obvious c 0 · B' 111· '29 . wen 1ggs, , commotion inside, I was # ....--~~= - apalled by what I be1teld through the half open door. Inside were a group of totally uninhibited performers wildly cavorting about the stage committing e\l'ery ma1mer of unnatural act: So do my, necrophelia, cannibalism, excretions of all de~>~gn, and language that would make a sailor blush!! Disgtisted and bewildered by the apocaiyptic vision within, I PETER PAUSE RESTAURANT. /'Student Discount' Mon.-Sat. 5:30-7:30 535NO'j:T ST.. LeVI'S Tuesday Night; November 12, The Film · ~ Committee PRESENTS: THE PRODUCERS w/ZeroMosM & Dick Shawn at 8 andlO. SS016 .Harinless War by MICHAEL ALEXANDER and 31M GAROFALO In ancient India chess was developed: in order to re.solve conflicts without resorting to .physical combat. Despit~ chess' complex. and sophisticated nature, it is a limited simulation of warfare <lue to its assumptions of: equality . in manpower and position; .simple clear tourain; the assumption that one combatant (piece) can a always . overcome another, merely by making the attack. ... lnorder to more closely approximate real life situations ( differe11ces' in amounts of weapons and men, \_Veather, mountains and rivers and cities, and the differences in attack and defense potential between military units, ect.) more realistic simulations have recently arisen. - Recently, Union College, recogniz:ing a growing interest in war games, p-ermitted the formation . of its own wargames club, ''\'Wilen. Diplomacy Fails.\ The purpose of \When. Diplomacy Fails\ is to provide a base for people interested· in playing -or learning about wargarnes, who whatever sort they B,re. _interested in. Plans are to store the club's games and magazines -(some of which, for example Strategy and Tactics, come witlt complete games enclosed, 'Which should help the club build-up a games library) in 216 Carnegie. Those people interested· in becoming involved would attend the organizational meeting Tltursday, November 7th at 9:00 in Strauss Lounge. If that is impossible they should contact: Jim Garofalo, 420 West (346- 9292), ~r Nichael Alexander, Phi Delta Theta (346-9730) or Chuck H ollenuri., Union College Library. •i H. Lawrence Achilles, Jr., and President Bonr~:er, join forces to break the first ground fvrthe new rink. -~ Beef and Brew: This Thursday from 4:3()...6:30 ·at the Rathskeller. 4 oz .. of roast beef on a hard roll with a bottle of b~er or a large milk or soda for $1.30. Come and see your fnends for dinner at the skeller. * * * * FIVE ROOMS AVAILABlE FOI I'AITIES AND BANQU&:rS Fealvring ltalla~·American Cvislne 'W/ol/,er :J~rro ~ £6fauranl Free Parking . 11l5 8ARIIm STREET SCHENECTADY, N.Y. Open 7 Days a Week I I! tel. Dl 6·95:54 or _ FR7~2642 II •in II! 11 PM to 8 AM dai.ly. Call anywhere in the country for 35¢ or less or anywhere in New York State for 25¢ or less. Each additional-minute costs 20¢ or less. These rates apply to station-to ... station calls you dia.l your~ self, ~? anywhere in the U.S. except Alaska & Hawa11. Tax not included. @ New~rkTe.l~phone . . ~ . . -. -~~ ' •• - '.d•~ • • ... ... • • .... ~ .; i \ - ... :; I c HUI dec to . his yea dis1 los1 wit: Sflll ~ Ma 194 pra an km wh. pic mo WO I WO cha 7-1 do' to Mt a ftc off stir brc tin M< mu we mu di'ii ani Ali No He PO' an1 bet Pe ga1 W() thi stt pn He ag; pn Fo Ali at tas for I wh chj be; scr ag; sta

. ,.,. CONCORDIENSIS, Wednesday, Nov. 6, 1974 Page 11 ------sports ., . -···· . . ~ Sig C-i Nips D.U. for Grid Title 'Rt~~gers Agr~e, Mohammad the :Greatest S,ee Does Sting ·by MARK MINDEL On Octo•ber)9. 1960, Tunney. rounds of fruitless roundhouses Hunsaker. lpst a . _six round Foreman began to tire. Ali began decision ·in Louisville, Kentucky ·scoring solidly with sharp, cutting to an·l&~yea.r .. old .boxer making · jabs. his profes~loiial debut. Exactly 14 Punch-Drunk · years· and five hours later in dista.nt Zaire, George Foreman lost his heavyweight title to a man with a diff~rent name but that sflme pretty \face. In the fifth, Ali waited a tantalizing two· full minutes on the ropes taking Foreman's harmless hom bs before stepP,ing out and rat-,a-'tat-tatting George. Foreman· had punched himself druitk. In the eighth, a dazed Foreman finally fell with twelve seconds' remaining in the round. Ali became the once and present King. ' by BART M.ERCER . Sigma Chi scored the first two · times it touched the ball for a 14- 0 lead and then hung on as they defeated D.U. 14-12, in the Interfraternity Football Championship game Mond·ay on Alexander Field. The Sigs scored on the opening kickoff using a good display .of razzle-dazzle as Randy R uschak · took the booming punt, raced down the sidelines~ flipped it off to, Mike· Baum who in turn lateraled to Mike Schafer. Taking the ball in full stride, Schafer gave it a quick toss to Torn Everett in the end zone. The crucial extra 1964. Both personalities reached new heights in 1965-66. The Beatles released an unbelievable seven albums - Beatles 65, Beatl~s VI, Help!, Rubber Solll, Revolver, Early Beatles and Yesterday and Today, while Ali was fighting an unprecedented seven · title fights against Liston, Floyd Patterson, George Chuvalo, Henry Cooper, Brian Londo~, Karl Mildenberger, and Cleveland M i>hammad Ali, born Cassius Marcellus (:lay on January 17, 1942, had . phwed yet another practical joke Qn· the world with an . irp.pre~sive eighth round knock~out.of Foreman, in a bout which experts and laymen alike picked to be Ali's last fight and most em6.arrassin,g defeat. Ali would fitialiy be oestroyed. An After-Thought Williams. · In retrospect, I can compare Ali lost his title When he Ali's effect on the world only to refused induction in 1967. He was that of another appealing entity convicted June 20, 1967 of draft - The Beatles. In fact, both evasion only three months after Moltammad Ali and the Beatles defending his title for the ninth point was good on a pass from Ruschak to Bob Zastrow. The \Sweetheart\ defense held D.U. on their first posession with the aid of a few dropped passes and miscues. Getting the ball back on offense, Sigma Chi wasted little time as they scored on first down with Jeff White taking a lateral and dumping it off to Bart Mercer who raced untouched forty yards down the sidelines. with 15 seconds remaining as the' Guys frotn Lenox went wild. Both teams were characterized by tough defenses. Randy Balcolrn and Joe Kenney made several outstanding tackles- for DU and Mike Schafer and Scott Media anchored the Sig Line. Media sacked the .quarterback nine times as he wriggled around the larger DU offensive linemen. Despite a few mild skirmishes, the final game of the year was played we!l and cleanly by both squads. J.Y. Soccer The \Diabolical Ones\ were not about to give up however as they picked off a pass in Sig territory with minutes remaining in the half. From there John Thompson tossed a pretty pass to Dave Boggs diving into the end zone with just 5 seconds to go. The Continued from Page 12 grab marked the first score aU Martini, Billy Glavin, and Ray season against the fleet Sig Freehill all played excellently defense, but more was to come .• throughout the season. At the start-uf the second half, Besides the defensemen, other the teams traded punts as the players to watch in the future cloudy sky began to fade. include Phil Rosenblatt, Morris Follo.wing another interception, ·Wallack, Jeff Lenewski, Keith D. U. drove for its second Gaspa~d. and of course, Ira touchdown on another pinpoint Sutton. pass from Thompson to Boggs. With an undefeatedj.v. team to The extra point was deflected draw from, it appears that Union. away from the receiver and the can expect to field a strong soccer score stood at 14-12: team for at least a few more Both defenses dug in and seasons. For this years possible stopped any prolonged drives post season play, the v.arsity team which forced several punts. DU will take on one or two j.v. got orte final break when with two hooters. minutes left, White shanked a Congratulations team, Coach punt out of bounds leaving DU Scanlon, on a job well done and a within 25 yards of paydirt. Any fine season. But the young clown who had w'on the ··heavyweight championship ten years ago as a 7-1 ·underdog after convincing doctors he was \'scared to death\ to fight, the fighter-poet-turned:. Muslim, who came back not only after a three-a.nd-a-haoJf year lay- off . to win, ·but also · after a stinging first. loss and later a broken jaw ,-decided it was not yet time . for boxing to lose M ob.ammed Ali: · · have led parallel careers. time against Zora Folley. The chance of a DU win·was washed away on the wet turf however~ as Tom Everett picked off a desperation pass in the end zone In 1960 the Beatles were in a Beatles put out one of their finest .. foreign country - Hamburg, albums, also one of their last, Germany- gaining acclaim. Ali, Sargeant Pepper in June, 1967. the Clay, was in Rome, winning During Ali's exile from boxing his gold medaL the Beatles split up. When .__ ___________ _ SHOP ON JAY STREET A:li's trick this time was not so much. that he w9n; but the way he went about it. Ali Di(l' His Homework On February 9, 1964 Mohammad AIL returned to · Beatlemanfu reached its peak in~- thrash Jerry Quarry in the America: when the Beatles autumn of 1970, Paul appeared on Ed Sullivan. Cassius . McCartney's first solo album C1ay heat Sonny Liston for the came out. heavyweight title February 24, Will Ali's latest triumph bring Fo~man, after' all, was th~ Day I. d··s 0 n Tug mysclem~j.n who h;,td taken less ~K:k==:>f>ik==>~: · . · tll.an nine months to punish the • of only two ~Qxers .W:ho had beaten Ali - Joe Frazier and Ken Norton. But Ali saw beyond this. He questioned Foreman's lasting po\Ver, rememJjering ·how sluggish and unprotected Foreman had been .at the end of the Luis Peralta fight in his €:arly career. · Ali . advertised a ''dancin' garlie.\ · He told reporters he would fight ~t a light 208. With this talk. _and previous Ali strategy at hi$ disposal, Foreman prepared f.()r this type .of a fight. He .methOdically cut off the ring against · ~parring partners to prepare for the swift Ali. Eoreman wanted· badly to trap Ali against the ropes. When Moh.ammad weighed in at 216' it looked like Foreman's task \Yas. easy, Foreman fans fo~saw an ea:dy k.o. B:ut,. like the pro quarterback who lets· 1200 pounds of defense charge him, unstopped, only to beat them with an easily flipped screen pass, Ali obligingly backed against the ropes and let: Foreman stalk in for the kill. Ali continuously blocked Fpre,m'iln's·. best. ptin«?hes with his arms and glO'Ves and after three FOR LIQUOR AND WINE Try Jake . ·.lipstein's 4U.S~- Str~t .. FR4 ... t818 Continued from Page 2 .members of his floor. That says it all for both Downsbrough and his \boys\. Bruce Eggleston leads the third floor but ·unfortunately, Eggleston has been hit one too many times in the course of the rugby season and his p·hysical and mental condition are now both in shambles. The members of his · floor are similarly endowed. All who have followed this match from its inception know that the wisest 'bet one could make is to bet on the North side. Presently, and throughout the week until Saturday, special bookies are making it. possible for people outside of Davidson to place 50¢ wagers on the outcome of the contest. A winning wager enables the better to attend \The Rafters at Union\ that night free of charge. A losing bet requires • I The Film Committee PRESENTS: A CLOCKWORK ORANGE at 7, 9:30, 12 Sat. and Sun. all shows in SS016 payment ot a quarter at the door.· Indivi~uals showing up at the door that night without any betting receipts will have to pay a dollar. Bookies may be located in Davidson through the R.A.s and the Beatles back? Probably not. But as the Beatles will forever remain on the top of. the music world, Mohammed · Ali will always be \The Greatest!\ For Your Mind Body Soul ·THE OPEN DOOR BOOK SHOP • War TH.E COUNTRY KITCHEN in Student _Activities in the person of Mrs.... Marra. THE OTHER SIDE OF .TODAY Any and all proceeds will go to the furnishing of Davidson's barren lounge. Your J?articipation is greatly appreciated. i3S, 136, 13 7 Jay Street Open Tues.-Sats. FASHION DESIGNERS F·ABRICS ORIGINALLY CREATED FOR GREAT NAMES IN THE FASHION WORLD 0 N SALE AT PRICES LOWER THAI WHOLESALE NOW IS THE TIME ••• fo select your fabrics for Holiday wear for your- self or for an elegant Christmas gift. We have a large assortment of fabrics for casual, sport or evening wear. BE READY FOR THE. NEW YEAR • • • Mill ends, samples and regular piece goods ore available in a wide variety of patterns and colors that will be featured in \FASHIONS for 75.\ Remember! You cann'ot buy our fabrics in any retail store. We manufacture only for internation- ally known designers. GLOVERSVILLE CONTINENTAL MILLS, Inc. FABRICS OUTLET STORE 188 So. Main St., Gloversville 725.0621, Ext. 47 .. Hours: Mon.-Thurs. 10 a.m.-4 p.m., Friday 1·9 p.m • NOW OPEN SATURDAYS, 10 A.M.- 2 P.M. Jt0%DISCOUNT to students with I.D.J

~ : ' ( ! . I ,. '1'/.\ .~ ' . , ~ H ~ ' 'I ~ t • . . ; I' ' li I ' . ' i I 1 . i. Page 12 CONCORDIENSJ$, Wednesday, Nov. 6, 1974 Hooters Set Records by LEE RIMSKY and JOHN BUSTERUD In Union's best soccer season ever, the record books were rewritten. Generating momenteum after a disappointing defeat to Colgate, the UC soccer team scored fourteen goals in three games to virtually ensure themselves of a berth in the Upstate New York ECAC tournament. including four for four on penalty kicks. And most importantly, this year's 9-l record stands as the best that a Union soccer squad has ever achieved. lJ nion's strong showing this year gives them an excellent chance of. receiving an invitation to the ECAC tournament,. and a possiblity of being the top-ranked team and thus being awarded the honor hosting the tournament. If, however, they are invited, they may not be at full strength. Don Ward and Richard Earl, junior halfbacks, are both out with ankle injuries and would be doubtful starters. The invitations for the tournament will be issued this Friday, and it will take place the weekend of November 15 and 16. In the climactic game of the season last Tuesday, the Garnet defeated a highly skilled Albany State team by a score of 5-3. Despite losing two starters in the early going, the Dutchmen took charge in the second ha If and thoroughly out-hustled the Great Danes. After a 3-3 halftime tie, the Garnet, led by John Denio's hat trick effort, rallied to play their most effective game of the season. Mark Broomfield, No. 14, takes to the air. In the first half, Denio, Jeffries (penalty kick), and Don Ward tickled the twines for the Dutchmen, but Albany countered with three of their own. Then, in the second period, local product John Denio erupted for two goals and Union had successfully revenged last year's 74 loss. Gridders Bombarded Union's biggest scare of the game came in the middle of the first half, with the game tied at 2- 2, when starting goalie Chris Huban was injured. But John Busterud filled in very ably, allowing only one Albany tally the rest of the way. He was aided by the rugged defensive play of· Mike Smith, Tim Fitzgerald, Jim Manning, and Jim Bacharach. The Trinity game was a Iaugher. After their big game against Albany State, the Garnet were riding a crest of momenteurn that the Bantams just could not handle. Union jumped off to a quick 5-0 lead at halftime. John Denio, George Garivaltis, Craig Jeffries (penalty kick), Miles Hirson, and Jim Philip all tallied for the Garnet. In the second half, Trinity managed to eke out two goals and avoid a shutout. Jeffries added his second goal and Parker Anton completed the scoring. Through the course of the season, the Garnet set or tied five different Union College records. They tied the record for least goals allowed in a season by holding their opponents to a mere fourteen goals in ten games. They also tied the records tor scoring the most goals with thirty and shutouts with two. Craig Jeffries set the individual scoring ·record with a prolific fourteen goals, photo by Dan MeMuamon Record setter Craig Jeffries The Williams College aerial combination of Wallace-to- Parker spelled doom once agih for the Garnet gridders as the Dutchmen dropped their fifth game in a row by a rather lopsided 48-21 margin. The Ephmen quarterbacking combo of Don Wallace and Jim Baldwin hit on a total of 15 to 24 pass attempts for 282 yards and five touchdowns. Four of the touchdown passes belonged to Wallace who was 7 toll, three of them were to split end David J. V. 's Go Undefeated by BOB HOWARD The j.v. soccer team ended a . highly successful season last Wednesday with a 3-1 victory over their counterparts from Albany State. They finished the season undefeated with five wins and one tie. Center forward Ira Sutton was clearly the game's star, earning a hat trick to. account for Union's three · goais: The first occured within the opening minutes and seemed to demoralize Albany. With Union dominating the action, Ira added two more goals to insure the vtctory before Albany managed to boot one past goalie Cliff langweiler for their only tally late in the game. · During the season, except for one 6-1 lau,gher, the j.v. hooters never overwhelmed the opposition. They played steadily and cohesively, improving each- game. Averaging only one goal against them per game, the defense, led by goalie Langweiler is deserving of ptaise. In addition to Langweiler, fullbacks Pete Continued on Page 11 Union Goalie Chris Huban was responsible· for the record of only 14 goals by the .... opposition this year. by KEVIN CRAWFORD Parker. Union's first sustained drive of the afternoon didn't take place until . .mid-way in the third period as the William's deferrse was impenetrable. Union could garner only 54 total yards rushing offense but they did move 207 yards through the air, most of them in the final quarter when they scored three times. Mark Broomfield started and went away at quarterback but he could not repeat his previous week's performance agaiQst Hobart. Mark was·only 9 for 26 and ll5 yards but did connect with deceptive ·split end Lou Miller on a 56 yard touchdown oass. Union's otherscores cameon a 2 yard plunge by Kenny Beck and. on perhaps the most spectacular play of the game, Broomfield pitched to flanker Barry Pannell who then hit a wide open Mike Cortez d ownfield f0r the touchdown. Linebacker Jack Dunn had an outstanding game defensively for Union. Williams outrushed Union picking up 162 yards to a meager 54. Hopefully with a healthy backfield next week, the Garnet ground game can return to it's early season form. The team closes out the home season this Satufday against Middlebury <Jn Alexa-nder Field. The Panthers are responsible for the only defeat suffered by Williams this year so the Garnet will be heavy underdogs once again. Unipn has alway£ p)?yed wen against Middlebury in the past however so yoti never can tell. Come lend some hands and see an upset to boot. - .. ·As·.·-:t;;;;~~.;;.t;;;~~· 11' there will be in effect an automatic fme of $25 for any unregistered car. __ ~~...._ ............................. ~ ..... . SPORTS SHORTS Coed Turkey Shoot - Couples interested in competing on Nov. 25th in an Archery Tournament, pick up entries at the gym. First prize is a turkey, second place finisher wins a chicken. Sign up deadline is Nov.l8. Wrctlers - Anyone interested in competing on the intercollegiate level in wrestling, practice has begun. For details see Ceach Knull in the Gym. Jon 3 Basketball - Schedules are available in the Gym. Please pick them up. as games are shceduled for this Thursday, Nov. 7. All scores must be reported to the student worker in the fieldhouse the sam~ night of the game. Swimmers - Practice is underway for all interested in competing for varsity swim team. The atmosphere is friendly. See Coach Magee in the Gym. Touch Football - The Independent League title was won by the undefeated Fred Weinstein ~·yuad as they defeated Manl Birrittella's team 18-12. Fred's Forces sh~wt.d the mark of true champions as they refused to fold after falling b(hind 12-0. They came back for three scores, the final coming with two minutes remaining on an interception and runback. Soccer, 7 On 7 - The soccer playoffs commence this week with perenial sports power Sigma Chi looming as the favorite. The powerful Sig offense led by spider man Brut Freeman has caused oddsmakers to list them as their choice. However, undefeated Chi Psi, defense minded D.U., \heady'' Edwards House and several others will have something to say about the final outcome. 1974 TOR soc: .om , Adi!l th A K J< ec pl el S; fc er E T tn Ul in K w is U1 st eJ Cl be pi eJ p (f

Page 12 CONCORDIENSIS, Wednesday, Nuv. 6, 1974 Hooters Set Records by LEE RIMSKY and JOHN BUSTERUD Itt l•11io11\ best :-.m:ccr ~easun ever, the record books were rewritten. Generating momenteum after a disappointing defeat to Colgate, the UC soccer team scored fourteen goals in three games to virtually ensure themselves of a berth in the l'pstate :\ew York ECAC tournament. In the e limactic game of the ~t:a~on la'>t 1 uesday. the Garnet ddeall·d a htghly skilled Albany State tt:am hy a score ot 5-J I lt:,pltt: ln>ing two starters in the early gning. the Dutchmen took charge tn thl· second half and thorough!\ out-hustled the Cireat Danes. Alter a 3-3 halftime tie, the ( iarnet, led hv John Denio's hat trtck <:Item. rallied to play their mmt effective game of the im:luding f uur fur foul 011 penalty kicks. And most importantly, this year's 9-1 record stands as the best that a Union soccer squad has ever achieved. Union's strong showing this year gives them an excellent chance of receiving an invitation to the EC AC tournament and a rossiblity of being the top-ranked team and thus being awarded the honor hosting the tournament. If. however. they are invited. they may not be at lull strength. Don Ward and Richard Farl, JUnior halthaeks. are hoth out with ankle injurie~ and would he dnuhtful ~tarters. !\he invitations tor the tournament will be issued this hid ay. and It will take place the weekend nf ;\Jovemher 15 and lf1. Mark Brvvmfield, Nv. 14, takes tv the air. In the fir:. I half. Denio. Jeflries tpenaltv ktck). and Don Ward tickled the twines tor the Dutchmen. hut Albany countered v.1th three of their own. Then, in the second period. local product .I ohn Denio erupted for two goals and t:nion had successfully revenged last year's 7-4 I oss. Gridders Bombarded l 'nion's biggest scare of the game came in the middle of the I irst half, with the game tied at 2- 2. when starting goalie Chris Huban was injured. But John Husterud filled in very ably, allowing only one Albany tally the rest of the way. He was aided hy the rugged defensive play of Mike Smith, Tim Fitzgerald, Jim Manning, and Jim Bacharach. rhe Trinity game was a Iaugher. After their big game against Albany State, the Garnet were riding a crest of momenteum that the Bantams just could not handle. Union jumped off to a quick 5-0 lead at halftime. John Denio, George Garivaltis, Craig Jeffries (penalty kick), Miles H irson, and Jim Philip all tallied tor the Garnet. In the second half, I rinity managed to eke out two goals and avoid a shutout. Jeffries added his second goal and Parker Anton completed the scoring. Through the course of the season, the Garnet set or tied five different Union College records. I hey tied the record for least goals allowed in a season by holding their opponents to a mere fourteen goals in ten gaines. They also tied the records tor scoring the most goals with thirty and ~hutouts with two. Craig Jeffries ~et the individual scoring·rccord v. ith a prolific fourteen goals, photo by Dan McManamon Record setter Craig Jeffries I he Williams College aerial combination of Wallace-to- Parker spelled doom once agin for the Garnet gridders as the Dutchmen dropped their fifth game in a row by a rather lopsided 48-21 margin. The Ephmen quarterbacking combo of Don Wallace and Jim Baldwin hit on a total of 15 to 24 pass attempts for 282 yards and five touchdowns. Four of the touchdown passes belonged to Wallace who was 7 to II. three of them were to split end David J.V.'s Go Undefeated by BOB HOWARD the j.v. soccer team ended a . highly successful season last Wednesday with a 3-1 victory over their counterparts from Albany State. They finished the season undefeated with five wins and one tie. Center forward Ira Sutton was clearly the game's star, earning a hat trick to accvunt for Union's three goals. The first occured within the opening minutes and seemed to demoralize Albany. With Union dominating the action, Ira added two more goals to insure the victory before Albany managed to boot one past goalie Cliff Langweiler for their only tally late in the game. Dunng the season, except for one 6-1 Iaugher, the j.v. hooters never overwhelmed the opposition. They played steadily and cohesively, improving each game. Averaging only one goal against them per game, the defense, led by goalie Langweiler is deserving of praise. fn addition to Langweiler, fullbacks Pete Continued on Page 11 f 11111n (,oalie Chris Huhan was rnpunsihle ji1r the ref'orcl uf unh 14 goa/1 In the ,_ opposition thi.1 year. by KEVIN CRAWFORD Parker. llnion's first sustained drive of the afternoon didn't take place until mid-way in the third period as the William's defense was impenetrable. Union could garner only 54 total yards rushing offense but they did move 207 yards through the air, most of them in the final quarter when they scored three times. Mark Broomfield started and went away at quarterback but he could not repeat his previous week's performance against Hobart. Mark was only 9 for 26 and 115 yards but did connect with deceptive split end Lou Miller on a 56 yard touchdown Pass. Union's otherscores came on a 2 yard plunge by Kenny Beck and on perhaps the most spectacular play of the game, Broomfield pitched to flanker Barry Pannell who then hit a wide open Mike Cortez downfield for touchdown. Linebacker Dunn had an outstanding defensively for Union. the Jack game Williams o utrushed Union picking up 162 yards to a meager 54. Hopefully with a healthy backfield next week, the Garnet ground game can return to it's early season form. The team closes out the home season this Saturday against Middlebury on Alexander Field. The Panthers are responsible for the only defeat suffered by Williams this year so the Garnet will be heavy underdogs once again. Union has always played well against Middle bury in the past how ever so you never can tell. Come lend some hands and see an upset to boot. ......... ~ .. , ........ ....-....~ .. ~ ........ ~ ... - As of Monday, November-! 11 , there will be in effect an automatic fine of $25 for any unregistered car. ·---~~ .. ._.. .................................. . SPORTS SHORTS Coed Turkey Shoot - Couples interested in competing on Nov. 25th in an Archery Tournament, pick up entries at the gym. First prize is a turkey. second place finisher wins a chicken. Sign up deadline is l\m. 18. \\'r(' ·tier~- \~l:•'llc' intnc·,h'd in ,.,mpctin!-! Pn the· intcrcolll'giatc kl·:l !!l II ft>tlin,t.:. rr:tdi,·c· h:t' hq!!Jrt ,-,,1 dt'!.ti', 't'l' ('ll;tl'il Knull in the (Jym. 3 on 3 Basketball- Seh~:duk' at.: ,t\ailahlc 111 the (i~m. Plea'c p1ch titem up a~ game' aH.: ... hn:Jukd IPt thi~ l hur,da~. \lJ\. 7. All 'l:ore~ must he reported to the ~tuJcnt \1 Prkcr 111 the ltl'ldhou't: the 'arne night nt the game. Swimmers - PraL·tice 1, unuen1a\ lot all mtereo,ted in compctmg for \ar..,it\ ,\\ tm tL'am. ·1 hl· atnwsphere 1' lnend!y. See Coach :vtagcc in the {i\'m Touch Football - I he lnd•:pcndent I eague tttk v.a~ wun h~ the undekatcd hcd Wem~tein ·o..;c~ad a~ the~ ddl'.!tt.:d MarJ Hirrittella\ tt.:am I ~-1 ~. !·red\, Foru:\ h•'~,J the mat k <ll tnH: dmmpion~ a~ the~ rdu,ed tn told after falling tKhtnd 12-0. I hey came hack for three ,u,re'. the linal cnmtll[! '' rtll t\\o mtnute' rcmaming on an interception and runhack. Soccer, 7 On 7 - lhc -.oecer playofb ~:ornmcnce thi' week with percntal -.port\ rov.cr S1gma C'h1 lnormng a'> tht: ta1 orite. I he ptmerlul St)..' nllcn ... c led h\ \Pider man Brut l·rccman has caused <ld(hmaker~ ttl '''t them a~ then chotec. lhmc\er. undefeated Chi Psi. tkkn'c mrmkd Ill . \head\\ hh1anb llou'>e and 'L'\eral other\ v.ill lla\l' -<lllll'thtng tll 'a' ;tl>tJIJt the lt.nal Plltcomt:. 1974- TOR 50¢ Offi• Admi VoJ fo en EI n l.fl ur irr Kc Wl is~ ut st ex cu be pi: ex Pt (P

' .,, ,, ~· •' ., ~ .. ... ' sis of off an ure but per to jrs. Vol. 3, N:o. 3 Union Collete Black Student Alliance's Newsp~~r November 6, 1974 · 11tE~==============alt''o'''''~=mr''''i''''''p:i:::::::====:====r''e'':''''''''''''r'~'o''''''''''''''''g~==~=~=?.====~a'l'l'';:;lll. 'C· . a· I· v·l .. n'·. ·. ~;~~~ - ' ._ ' - •'' :~~l~ l@ Union College is a very lonely place .. .lt'll make you do ili!ll ~jlthings you never would have done at home, pitch fits from :~:~~~ C· 0 m· . .·e· 5 . lllilimole-hills, say things you don't mean,. wish you were ~i~il~ ~[~[somebody else.~.l could go on and on about this psychological !~~!~~ .·a.·a· c· ··k. Il[obstacle course, and now I know why Union has made such a :~:jl ~~~~~beneficial name for its graduates, 'cause if you can make it lj~ . . . li!~llthrough here you can do anything. lil Calvm An,ders?n was mv1ted :::::: ' . . · , . . :~:;: back to Umon m an effort to ~r ~u~ the muck which .Is hardest t~ wade through h~!e Is ~¥ prese 11 t some Lenox Rd. unity to r:~deftmtely the apathy. Hlp boots wont even help you, Its so ~:~~~ the campus. A 'three-pronged' llillithick, and its got this definite crud of \superficial concerned\ m~l~ social activity was held, Friday @caked up all over the top of it. ~&~1 night, October. 25, which includ.ed mlll With the faculty aild administrators ifs like they're sitting ~@ a _poetry readmg, complete. Wlth :::::: . . . · . . ::::~ w1ne and cheese at Htckok @jdown to eat a hearty breakfast while the1r parakeet m .hts ~l~f: Lounge movies and ice cream at tl~guilded. cage is pecking and picking between his waste and M Edward's, and a party at the gym j@gravel for a seed and turning over his water dish for thirst. ll~l~l featuring a campus band . ~lilAnd with the students it's worse cause we're those birds who @ . ~alvin, now a sophomore at ~~l[are always chirpin' about the cage - no outlets not enough ~11 U<iston, College, gladly r~turned :~::: . . . . . ' · :::::: to Umon to do the readmg. He l~~;rgood seed, even the newspaper hnmg the bottom of the cage 11~~1 repeatedly referred to Union @ain't worth squat. And the only thing we're contributing to l~~l~ College as his \home\ and the ~[lhhat cage in accidental unified effort .is birdcnip·. ·Ana ·we're :n[ audience as his .. old friends\. He ~1~not just crappirig to ourselves. No, we're crapping on ~~~[[~ did four poem~; two of which ~:::: · . - · · d :::::: were accomparued by flute and ~l~jeverybody else's toes. That's the problem w1th this third gra e l1lil1 clarinet. · mapathy at Union. If everyone kept to themselves with their ill~~~ The atmosphere of the night, in lililjlack of concern, things wouldn't be that bad. But, see, ~llll this reporter's opinion was . ~lll~jeverybody's complaining about the crap very loudly, yet when j~~~ uncomfortable .. Under ~e~ d~ l~~llseme toilet paper comes along,· they look at it as if its ~llll, re.d and .blue hght, Ca~vm, m h~s t~ . . . . . . . ::::;: sbght silhouette, deltvered hts ~~;~somethmg from ~uter space or complam that the pap~r IS ;~~ll four favorite poems, prefacing ilil~meant for a certam type of crap. I mean, where does It all Mll each with an updating purpose. j~jjj end? Is that all we learned from our rebellious years? To if:ll The flutist, picking up the ~~~~complain? Have we forgotten that the complaining is the ffij~ strength~ and .em~hases of the j~~j~beginning of getting satisfaction- and action is the catalyst o' Ill* p()e~ dtdfta fm~ Job, a.lthough ~rl · · 1 ? 1~@ Calvm's un-amplified .y01ce was ~tnme tat s. , . . . , . . lM scarcely heard at times. On ll O.K. Everyone s been b1tchm about apathy - so It still ~l~lf, Calvin's delivery entitled j]j~!stands. Maybe people don't know what apathy is. Apathy is jj~j~ \America\, he started, faltered, l~~\when you complain about going to the same parties looking ~~~ a~d went complet:Iy blan~. ¥at the same faces, so someone . comes up with the idea of a §ill! Afterwards he attnbuted hts :::::: ' . . - . . ~::::: temporary loss of memory to the Mmasquerade party and everyon~ stlll shows up With the same ~l~~ blatant ;absence· of Black mold faces. Just too cool to let your hair down and act the fool. ~ll~ students. Trying desperately to MY ou're more of a fool-if you don't take advantage of a change @ cultivate the positive support of l@in pace. Fool if you do, fool if you don't ... what have you got ~~;r his audience, Calvin joked, tlto lose? · llllli cracked, and leaned heavily on ~f:\j Exa~ple Two: W·hen you complain about your weight l~~l c_omments fro.m the group. A. ll\ , . · . . 1 , .• ' llll~llife~ess questt~n and ans~er ~lllil Oh, I m so fa~ I c_an hardly close my legs. But when exe~ci~e 1 :~:~: penod was bnefly held durmg fjprograms are mstltuted you snuff your nose up and go s1t m ~l~l~ which typical .. I'm-white-and- f:]your room mumblin', and grumblin' over some Fritolays. %ljl~ rich~nd-what-can-!·do\'to-help\, m Example Three: You go to Union's sports games. If you're fll questions . \';eren t answered. !lwinning, you cheer, because ever-ybody else is doing it. If Hi Wbahlelnn Cdal~mths transferfr~lt ~as ~i~~ , · . . . . . . :::i:; c e ge m e name o s aymg :mwe re losmg you blame 1t on everythmg else but the lack of M with a problem till it's solved' he mlsupport. I'm directing this at football. A unified yell, \GO il • ' lilDEFENSE\ gets up more adrenalin than \Hey Broomfield, if:r ~twhaddya got, lead in your arms?'' and \Everlin you klutz!\ in f~l] ~l!~~tereo. ll~ll· ATTICA M There are more examples, a lot more. See, the thing is, you j~~ll( Judge Carmen F. Ball Mdon't have to accept or reject things the way they are offered, ~~1 yesterd.ay denied a motion filed f::~· • · · · ·. • · W · . ~:r, by Attica Brothers Legal Defense ~::::I.e., you don t have to exerctse m that exercise class. e1gh :::::) r t f xpe · 1 ·ncurred ~~= • . . · . · . :::::l 10r paymen o e nses *l!land constder the goals that these thmgs are trymg to ~n in the defense of the Attica ~jljaccomplish. If they match up with yours, maybe you should f:l~ Brothers. The ABLD application imoin forces Until you can branch QUt to do it your way. If you ~~~l included the costs of investigati~n !bupport something, the flavor which you lend to it may make ~ffi of ~he cases and of pre-tr.:Ial ~lit more acceptable anyway. . . ll@ mot1ons such as the ·Wyo~mg 1*1 , · .. , , ~:!( County change of venue motion, 1~::: Its my last year here, but before I run away, moantn and [~~ motions for discovery material {~groaning, I'm going to try like hell to get what I. want from f.~i and for bills of particular, and the !~~this place. After all I'd look pretty dumb if I said, 4 'Boy, f:~ motion to strike the Erie County Calvin Ande~on, Sophomore at Boston College, during poetry reading. left his audience breathing a nebulous answer. Calvin isn't too happy with Boston College's race relating atmosphere, and whether he'll transfer again in search of that non-existent atmo~phere remains to be seen. But on tlie positive side he's working on a book of poems and an album. which is very close to being realized. In private conversa.tion with Calvin, we wondered why the Black Student Alliance didn't show up en force. One explanation was that besides t~e tact that everyone had heard his poetry countless times; before, and besides the fact that there were only nine people in the House that Friday night, (three ofwbom attended) some .people just weren't in support. ~f the three sided Lenox Rd. Affair for purely Flashbac-k ••• personal reasons. This reporter: also explained to Calvin that Black Students are still allowed lives which aren't affiliated with Alliance happenings. In other words, the pO()f showing- was reflective on individual tastes. Whether or not the planned activities received favorable after effects, I don't know because ·I wasn't too sure of the initial aims and objectives, but I d.o know that the attempt taught those involved with the affair something, and I'll bet it has something to do with leading a horse to water and not being able to make him d.rink. To Be Continued Union's Black.- Student community, (ac~ually those engaged in Blackness), seems to be completely be~!ldered and perplexed by the recent schemes and suggestions refle~ted by the Union Hierarchy. . What's happening?J? Well, it looks the \mastuhs\ wotdd Ii~e to ,-· jury pool. The court was supplied with an itemization of costs, as well as with supporting affa;davits from individual attorneys ·who stated that they would have been unable to represent their clients without the work done by ABLD. The state has spent over $.6 million in the prosecution of the Attica cases~- and last ye;it lhe state legislature appropriated $750,000 enjoy the company and participation of the ••tanned ones\ in Union's goings on. Out of the mountains, from the governing board of directors of America, Moses delivered the word that things were getting tight, and \the help of all Americans would be appreciated\ ... .' or else. Sounds like godfather action, doesn't it? Well, could be ... and Union has definitely been tabbe~ as a target. To put it quite frankly, America is in trouble, and; if the rest of America's \yelling minority\ would kindly shut up and mix in, things could possibly turn around. Union's job rests on the principle of forced assimilation or sterilization whichever of the two evils you prefer. By creating an atmosphere of togetherness, and further perpetu!lting the \meJting ~~l:Jnion was a drag,\ and my co-worker says ''Well, if it was~~~. lih~~~~~,~~g=k~~::~:~~r§gN~,~~~i~;giJ~~i:4g~~~j~~i!~~~=~4~~;~~:a'8Mi::!~~i;;,Ji Continued on' ... il&e B pot\ idiocy~ Union would thus : ==~ . . ' · , . fulfill its promise to the governing · · •a· board. make money, and at the - same time take in some fine Black · · Blood. I'm only going to .say it Leave Us Alone There are people on this campus who want to improve Black-white relations. But some· of these people (mainly administrators), want to improve these relations using some rather crooked, dirty tactics. It is about time that these people realize that the BJack students on this campus will not tolerate such tactics. Thre!ltS (such as, taking away the B.S.A.'s budget), will not \improve\ any relations; but intensify the already-present anger. Personally, i feel that the only way to improve anything here is to have willing people. If there are people who are not willing ~ they should not be forced under any circumstances. I, as a minority student myself, understand the want to better relations between Black students and white students, but to administrators there is a warning noth.ing gaod will be accomplished by y'aWs lies, nor, by bribery, force, the spreading of rumors, etc. Y'all better just hang it up if there are no alternatives to these ruthless schemes ... and if ruthiess schemes is the only way you can perform then L~AVE US ALONE! . by Sadama Horns B.S.A. members listen attentively in First Aid Class. See co-chairmen for more information. once. Say it twice, and I'll be visiting . brothers Malcolm and Martin. Because of the economic crisis we're now in, I'll restrict this dissertation to such a format. The reason -:::.. everyone learns or listens better with visual aid. The foundation of American Society is based pn patriotism. Patriotism ·in Jhe sense of one's love for the Nation. At the time of the Union's :formation the citizenry mainly consisted of Anglo..;Saxon background. Of course, this allegiance of - patriotism fit Viell then because of the obvious cultural and ethnic Contintaed on Page D -.

' , , I , I '· ., . Page B PERSPECTIVE, Wednesday, November 6, 1974 ····················································-= I WHOWEARE i ! Editor - Isidra Person ' I I Editor's Assistant - The House I • D • R 'd ' • • .roetess m es1 ence - Utamu I ! Artist in Residence - Robert Davis I I Photography Editor - Bill Collins r ; Typists - Ron W estbr~ok, Olivette Simmons i 1 Sports Editor - Marilyn Becton I • • I General Writers - Sharon Brown, Thomas Watts, • I Special Thanks to Gail Chatman, Attica Press I B Releases, Ana Logy Brian James Smart, Sadoma I I Horns & Don Harrell I • • ....................................................... Credo Ill - William Collins In this year, many new changes have taken place here at Union College. Starting with the president of the school right over to the new co-chairmen of the B.S.A. I, William Collins, as a Black man in America know the struggles Bl~:~.ck people are facing throughout the wofld. As newly elected co-chairman I know people are looking for new ideas and changes from the norm. I can suggest and introduce new ideas but it will take all Black students and Black community people to help carry out these ideas. I believe the Black students at Union must become united to help bring about change. One of my highest priorities is to improve relations between Black students and white students, administration, and faculty. Down through the years Black students here at Union have gotten ·e short end of the stick and I think it is due time for Black students to get an equal chance and opportunity. as a white student would on this campus. This includes everything from grades to social activities. I think that this can be done with a good close relationship between the B.S.A. and the Dean of Students office. Secondly, I feel that there should be more Black professors, administrators and students. Also along the same line there· should. be more Black related courses. Again I believe that· with the work of the B.S.A. and the administration these changes can take place. Next, I believe the B .S.A. should get involved in community related activities such as the Pimeg program, the Drop-in Arts center, and the Miss Black Metroland. I also believe the B.S.A. should honor the Black members of the surrounding community. Four, but not in the order of importance, the maintenance of the Black Cultural Center .. better known as Hickok House, is an important necessity to Black students and Black people in the Schenectady area. First of all, approximately half the Black students on campus live here and a large· percentage of the rest come to the Information Center (which is located in Hickok House- basement), to get away from the emotional strain of the school, or for social activities. The Black house is the only place on campus which offers these things for Black Students and Black people in this area. In closing these are my goals which I have· placed high importance in accomplishin,fl this year. Also, I want every Black student on campus to support our paper, Perspective. Perspective is our paper, and is o·ne of the most powerful way to express our views. The Country of Onyun was divided into many states. One such state was Syklogie, ruled by a triumvirate of Prophsyn. It came to pass that three tyrannical prophsyrs came to power in the state of Syklogie. They each ruled a burrough in the state. Prophsyr Hontloy ruled the burrough Dept which was known for fantastic scientific experiments. Prophsyr Gridnor ruled the burrough Eduke which was known for its school system. Prophsyr Parcek ruled the land of Abnarm which was known for its many crazy people. As in all states there had to be a distribution of labor. Since work was hard to find, some of the people were left jobless. Much of the time it was the minoritoids. They were looked down upon by the wytizoids wl).o were the, majority as well as the group from which came the triumvirate. Now it so happened that the triumvirate promised an Aye to each worker who completed his job thoroughly within 10 weeks, a Bee to each worker who completed his job within 10 weeks but not as thoroughly, a Sie to workers who did some of the work and a Deye to those who did hardly any at all and last but not least and Ef to those who did nothing. Now these Ayes, Bees, Sies, Deyes and Efs were very . valuable minerals at Onyon, Ayes being the most valuable since they are equivalent to gold. It just so happened that the Prophsyrs were partial to the Wytzoids and gave them all the Ayes. The minoritoids received the bulk of the Sies, Deyes, and Efs. The minoritoids were by no means dumb and realized that they were being slighted. They treatment any longer. These joined forces and stormed the proph..syrs had to be stopped. The offices of the Prophsyrs. and only way was to go to King questioned thern about their Bongo the chieftain of all Onyon. payment habits. They told King nongo that unless Prophsyr Hontloy said: \YOU something was done about the MIN OR ITOlDS ARE JUST prophsyrs they'd cry partiality all BAR ELY CAP A B LE 0 F over the first world and Onyon GETTING STES.\ would be attacked by the Bwacks, Prophsyr Parcek said: l'LL the Pricans, the Chies¢ and aU COMPROMISE. I'LL GIVE minoritE>ids. They'd· even have the YOU EACH A SIE AND A help .of some wytizoids; King HALF.'' Bongo, not wanting Onyoh to die Proph.syr Gridnor said: I'M . as a partial nation banished NOT PARTIAL I'LL GIVE . Hontloy, Gridnop and Parcek YOU ALL BEE'S, HUT YQU from the lana of Syklogie .... AND MUST UNDER.S1fAND ONLY ALL M INORITOIDS WYTIZOIDS GET AYES .... And LAUCH-JED. they all laughed. MORAL: HE WHO LAUGHS ihe minoritoids angrily left the LAST LAUGHS BEST! offices to formulate their ne.xt - Ana Logy plan. They couldn't take this · I c. an . ~ \ ve:.. ~ o u A'' ece ·~ b \\t ~ o v tnt.J t~ + unc:ier 6\ and on\~ \.0 yt1-z. o i cb <J t f. \A ~ e ~ ': Anyone interested in behind the scenes work for · . Black production \Life and 'Times of Walter J. · . Smintheus\ sign up on Hicko){ House Bulletin . . Board or contact Greg J;i'reelon •. ................................................................................... . ' . • • • • 1 To The Editor 1 ! Dear Editor; Sure, sll.e tought, she tried, and money bac~ . guarantee , if I I Your Editorial Segment,· cried, hoped and prayed -but all profegsors. don t produce they way 1 • ''Editors Prerogative\ was in vain. yott feel ts necessary. Professors • . i probably one of the nicest things Her leaving is no loss to her, aren't perfect, and there ought to I , we upperclass persons can do for but to Union. My sister is be a foolpr.oof way to make them 1 1 (reshmen. Your advice will greatly beautiful, intelligent, and ~II- behave, . 1 •aid the progress of the freshmen together nice. Through another 1 I here on this campus. Keep up the institution she'll reach her goal- Re: Blacks On Campus 1 I good work and continue to to be able to help her people. lt is quite disheartening to plan 1 lencourage other up.perclass Union has to l;>ear the loss and I social events which die from lack 1 I persons to \care\ about the'frosh. wonder if anybody really cares. of participation. ; IMAMU AND ME I ~ Yours in the Struggle, She says she is coming back and We had the opportunity to 1 I Donnell Underwood she will definitely be hellified - have a bus for the Graham 1 • she will be a Black woman ready Central Station concert but • recognizes th t h It t i EULOGY TO UNION: to spit in the faces of those white because of lack of participation I I started reading the collected essays, entitled \Home of LeRoi Jones, who some of you might know as lmamu Biraka. I felt it very strange to read his earlier works and see the types of things LeRoi used to say, They were ideas that are in marked contrast to the Imamu of a year ago, but seem logical given the Imamu of today in his bright, shining-new, progressive bag of SOCIALISM! A year ago, lmamu would have Iabled any B.lac.k person professing a socialist doctrine as a back-slider, at best, or Uncle Tom, at worst. lmamu was tie- dyed/Black, Dashika- we{lring/ Black, bone/ Black, right-on/ Black. He called himself and his organization, the Congress of Afrikan People, militant \cultural nationalists,\ which supposedly meant that he was tenouncing his white american heritage and recognizing only his Afrikan. It seemed, though, that .. cultural nationalist\ meant even the soles of his feet were Black. But he has, now, progressed into a I Marx II Lenin I Mao I s odalist ideology, and even wants to revolute with the white workers as allies. This is. of course, only au over-simplification. Imam u .. a eac. cu ure mus • DEDICATED TO MY SISTER administrators professors and the bus was cancelled. Maybe I adapt soctahsm to tts own needs. • M · t d \d d to leave this ' ' . • · • . • Y sts er ect e students who th.ought she could- everyone was broke. That s • He strll advocates however a • Wh't 1 t'tu· t' Sh t's angry . · • · . h • . . ' • ' 11 1 e ns t ton. e never make 1t. May you wad m understandable. A uge • bourgemse/proletanat class • and is disappointed in ·people who H 11 t planned • I I . • peace. a owee·n par y was · · • strugg e a':la ysls. . I promised to help but never did. Sadama N. Horns which took a lot of work on the • ~ow d~d Ima~~' or LeRot, !l.i•••••••••••••••••••••••••• . parts of three social committee ! rna e sue a transttlon? The best. . I QUESTION: members., We felt bad enough • answer comes from the man . . . . . • . · . f · • h' If H . h' r not- espectally tf 1tmeans gomg • What does one do when one when not many students rom 1 tmdse . 1 · e, m tltshearhteskt essayhs, through the changes Brother I finds the¥ have a professor who· neighb()ring schools showed up • ma e 1 apparen · at e new e - · • d d · h b h B s A h • ... t 1'1 t 1 , H lmamu has gone ·through. • rones on an -on putting t em to ut not even t e . . . ere • ~as .ba~ h' m 7 ~c u~d ~ T. Watts I sleep in the first 3!12 minutes· of showed up. We can excuse that I escnt.~ tshattttu esd, d 1 eas an 1 ·1 class? What does one do when a bysaying'~maybeeveryonewasat I percep IOns: e soun e exact y • ' ~ ·k · · 1 . · R .p\J· •• B h · · • l .k h t 1960 h' l\b 1 • pro1essor as s tuvm questtons on . . . ut ow can \ve excuse • 1 e w a a w tte 1 era • .h h' . h 1 h r h bl k 1 · • would lik a 1960 \N • tests, t e an~wers to w tc. on y t ~ 1act t at . ac peop e m 11 , 11 t .~ . . eg_ro 1 those who mtssed the depth of the Htckok House d1d not even show I mtlte etc uah~ tolfsound.likt~· H 18 lht~e Continued from Page A 1 play would be familiar with? up for a Hickok House function. I re ec s 1s se -percep tons: ts . ~~ • Wh' h · d . · k 1 · · f h h • r t ':ti h\ h . to pay for the Attica defense.. tc corner o you sttc a o those o you w o ave 11 trs wbt ed wBasl wk. tte, le t~as a ABLD applied for $88 440 as•. professor in who cracks tired supported our functions . 'Right • 11 super-. a· ac revo u to nary . · '. · ' ·. k 1 d · h 0 • h · f h t · th \ddl 60 , .. h b retmbursement for pre-tnal legal•• JO es constant y an expects t e · n. But to t ose o you w o are •.· poe m e .m1 e s, e · ecame . Ia t d? (l t 1 · 1 - · 1 · · \I' the political leader of the CAP in acttons. Judge Ball conceded thatl de ss I' o). Wreshpond. e ds eepthmg cbonsdtanTthy ,comph~mltngd \ md I th I 70 , . d h h a \vast amount.. of work had• ogs te . · at o you o WI a ore . ere s not mg o o an • e ear y s, an , now, e as . • f . h · h ' · . t • t d th CAP· t · t th been done necessttated by the• pro es sor w o requtres w o arent even commg o • ur~\ t e . mt. 0 JUsHano er unpreceden'ted scope of the Attica I attendance, will dock your grade plann. ed' events I say SHOW UP I' ~octa ~s t org:.mz\ton.ll B~ ;ent cases which involve 621 if you don't attend, yet, when you OR SHUt UP. I roll! . 1 ~ egr~. 100 ' 1 °. a h- ·act' to defendants over 50 attorneys I attend he says nothing worth The B.S.A. social committee I ~emt-m ~~r~ ~n. n t e ~re a~e, and 4 000 'witnesses Ill denying I getting up for? has a lot planne.d for this year's I h~ s:rs k a ~ ~~s se~~c mg ksor payme'nt however : the Judgel What do you do with a social calendar but if this same 1 .. ~s a~_ne~s m ts.Jar 1 ,er ,y-'. 0 r h'. charact~rized th~ work as I professor w\lo allows the same tired attitude exists then these 1 f ear~ mg or myf 1 ~nt~y 1 ~ t e \voluntary\ and· therefore not I student to carry on a two way plans are useless. In other words 1 .av~rtte ~TYH. ·o t e m.~ncan requiring payment by the state 1 conversation for the duration of please ,give your support for the • ( I~teRe~tua · 1 ts con}tant c anges 1 ABLD will appeal to th~• the p~riod the cohtext of which next B.S.A. Junction or maybe I e 0 ~ :~ ~ar~m, t'~r exar:;p e) Appellate Division in Rochesterl in~erests no one bitt the professor there won't be any others. What's I sugBglesk atd e ts. s 1 Use~r:c mg. for a review of Judge Ball'sl and the brown noser? the use!? I ac stu ents at mon are . . · • H d k h • Sh D B · • b . . d . declston, (Press Release from• ow o we now w at were aron . rown • , et~lg t~at~eth .. kt\ becom~ ATTICA BROTHERS . LEG ALl Jl!iying . for until we actually Chai!rnan, Social I mte ectua s,. ·. m . t at most o DEFENSE .. ) l1 • attend a class? There should he a Comrn. B.S.A. • us are not mterested. I know l'm · I - · · . · .~ .......................................................... .,. - Bl! th< (C go, pa Yc an Hi frc en th< go sal fa1 yo m( yo Ut the B~ cit be wl to Bl \s wl pc at vi: ac th ol ar to h< Lc B . th \\ Sl s 0 is w rn e c r s a

he he he . . ' .• • I I • • I I I • • I •• • I • I . ! • . • • t I • • • . I I I I • = • I p. e I I I e I n I = • •• • • • • • • • • OB p =· I • . • • 1 • • I • • all PERSPECTIVE, Wednesday, November 6, 1974 PageC Masq~uerade K:K =H Party tc=· ·=>~>r The Social Comm.itt~e of the Black Students' Alliance under the wing of Sharon Brown (Chairwoman) had a .. howling\ good time planning a Halloween party that was given Friday night. Your tickle hox would have had an overload from the sights. Hickok was decorated i·nternally from top to bottom. As you entered the door you met a witch, the goblins attacked and lights got low. The punch, candy, sandwiches, and munchies went faster tllan the strobe·4ight. When you observed the decor· of the main floor and basement lounges you could see the hard work th::~t went into it. A black cat met ine at the bathroom door. l·noticed someone dancing in a chair with a skeleton. Prizes were given for the most original, .ugliest, funniest, pretti~st, and· best overall costumes. Father- Time and Buckwheat did it up. The strangest looking witch came riding through the place on her (his) 14,000 mph nitro powered broom. For those who a.ttend'ed it proved to be a most enjoyable evening, To the members of the Social Committee: Sharon, Aseba~ Bill, and Bobby D- More POWER to you! (And for those of you. who did not come: Why complain??? \Hey you're too COOL to join your brothers and sisters???\ \Have you matured that much over the summer?\ \ls it hibernating season?\) bv G~til f\'hqtman ...... And it came to pass that the Blacks were surely tired of promise:; heaped upon them by the White Power Structure. And the ghettos were filled with the unemployed, and the debris of shabby, overp~iced Christmas merchandise, a·nd the sicJ< too poor to obtain medical attention ' ' and most of all, rats and roaches. Now, there liYed in the ghetto of Harlem a young man named Booker T. Booker T. looked about the filth •. and crime-.ridden streets and said, ''This is bad!\ And he looked into the homes of Harlem and saw the rats and roaches, and he said, \Thi~; is 'ad!\ And he. Joined the P.T.A. and peeped in the school systems, and then Booker T. said, \Wheew!\ So Booker T. went· to his leaders, and they listened to his story,. and they cried with him and gnashed their teeth with him, but made no move to help his people. And Booker T. said, \Hey what is this.\ And Booker T. being cancer by birth and therefore a sensitive soul,! was unable to keep these things to himself. for it was not his way to suffer in silence. Black Sambo and Father Time pose as Buckwheat looks on. Now, Whitey was a powerful man in the land, and although Booker T. thought him degenerate for allowing his people to live thusly, he was unimpressed by Booker T.'.s opinion of him. And Whitey mocked Booker T. and said, \Surely God has favored us. Look at all the good things he has given unto us.\ And when Booker T. heard these things he gnashed his teeth, and rent his clothing asunder and put on a dashiki, for he knew it was not God who gaye these things to the Whites. Black,s ln .the ·c·lass of '78 After finishing half a term at Union College, I can only judge _ the situation as depressing. As a Black male coming from a large city. the adjustment · period has been quite difficult. The social life enjoyed by many white freshmen is not comparable to those of Black freshmen and Bla.ck students i.n general. The \skellar\ and fraternity parties while professing to a bi-racial policy, just don't have an atmosphere conducive to visitation by Blacks. The school administration in the social events they have sponsored, have obviously catered to white culture and fads. The tension on campus is totally different than anything I have encountered. Tqe refuge on Lenox Road is the only hope for Black freshmen, unless one has · the good fortune to possess a car. Whereupon neighboring colleges such ·as Skidmore, RPI, and Sien.a, take on a similarity to an oasis. The only other alternative is to go home on the weekends which is much too expensive for most . The frustration and depression Public Apathy by Marilyn Becton By the time this article is read, elections for various political offices across· the country will have taken place. I find it rather shocking that s~me people exhibit apathetic attitudes · towards \Election'74.\ In a recent poll taken by the Columbia Broadcasting System, a surprising percentage of the American voters didn't know what offices were up for grabs, and what individuals were seeking these very important political offices. This to me is terribly disgusting, especially after the Watergate mess. Last y.ear, all you could he~tr ?Cross the country was '\honesty m government\. Now that people by Brian James Smart resultant from the pathetic social life ·greatly hampers the individual academically. Many Blacks, t grasping at any chance to \party let the books lie unopened . The insecurity of the faculty in dealing with Blacks is very apparent. Tales of their prejudice have been related to Black freshman, thereby confusing him even more, thus leaving the question, ''Who can I turn to?\ unanswered. One Black freshman recruited to Union for track, was told that if he didn't run cross country, he might find his And after these things had come to pass, Booker T. found himself without funds, and he had to go to the welfare Department which was not sympathetic with Hooker T.'s anEer, and they were moved not, for they found him to be intelligent and capable of work. So they gave him funds for Review: \Education financial aid package cut. Who 1 could he go_ to? Pressures of this O type are not needed by any· freshman. There is already a S c \ strong pressure on the Black to 0nny arSOn ,succeed academically, there can Has anybody seen the be. no grounds for an~ one. to \Education . of Sonny Carson?\ po~nt at Blacks as mfen.or. Probably a lot have heard of it, W1t~out a!l adequate counsehng but if we stay up here in the tri- s~rv.tce, thts becomes even more city area, 1 d:oubt if any of us will dtff!cult. . ever see it. It's one of those Black After five :Necks he:e, I can films that only hits big cities. only summar~e the extstence of There were a few things that set Blacks on Umon College campus, this movie off from other Black as ~ne. of exploitation. dramas. First of all, the Explottat1~:m ?f Black athletes a~d characters used were very real, t_he explmtatl_on of Black bod_1es and non-professional (meaning lor federal money. The only thmg hadn't acted before or had never t~at I ,can suggest at this point in been trained to act) and mo-at ttrne IS the development of an were taken right off the street for adequate co~nseling . service for spur of the moment shooting. Blacks on Umon College campus. You could tell that these weren't have an opportunity to change the political scene with different people, they are letting that chance slip by. This isn't to say · that the change in the physical persou of an individual will necessarily institute a change in the political structure of this country. out only through the close examination of the politician's ideology, will there be any kind of change for the better in our democratic system. What is the solution to this very pressing problem? Maybe another Watergate scandal, or maybe even the impeachment of yet another president. This country needs something, but what it is escapes me at this ·moment. By the way, did you vote '!:???rn just average middle class uppity Black people trying to make a buck by being squeezed into the shoe of street Blackness which obviously never fits. And· Michael Campus, director, is one white man that finally realized that in stories about slum/ ghetto life; you just can't use.those who have never been exposed .. That's one plus for ''The Education.\ As pointed out in the movie review in Essence: \Director Michael Campus plays down the literal meaning of his film to emphasize its visual and aural rhythms. Often the camera lingers on a face, so that the viewc.:r may fully a bsotb its irregular contours, or on the swagger of a walk. The soundtrack fluidity mixes a melage of inner-city sounds, Continued on Page D Black Story by DON HARRELL food and rent and sent to a place of employment. · But straightway the new employer said', •'This man is not able to work with us. He is sick and filled with hate. Moreover, whosoever shall not like us, shall not earn bread by the sweatofhis brow.\ And Booker T. said, \Do unto others as they do unto you.'' But the Whites had hardened their hearts, and chanted unto Booker T. in unison, \That is no excuse! The Bible.says to love one another.\ And Booker T. said, \You people are full of shit!\ And when they heard these words they locked Booker T. in a mental hospital for they found him to be dangerous. ' After spending forty day and forty nights in Creedmore, Booker T. found an escape route and be-bopped into the. woods and concealed himself among the trees. And there Booker T. spoke to his Lord. And he endured. And God was good to Booker T., for there was~anabundance of opossum and berries in the woods, and Booker T. prepared opossum and berries and he grew fat. And it came to pass one day, Booker T. was preparing opossum outside his cave and he had no salt or pepper to flavor his food, and he cried 'out, \Oh Lord! How sanctimonious -these bastards be! They kill and cheat, and rob and plunder. Moreover, they engage in sodomic practices in their boudoirs which they teach unto my people. Surely you should bring them low for what they have done to ' us! Evil abounds in the land.\ · And a voice cried out, \Booker T.! Booker L! Leave the caves ' the woods and return to the ghetto of your people.\ And Booker T. said, \What will I do with this opossum?\ And the voice cried out, \We will use it to bring your enemies low.\ Now Booker T. returned to Harlem but was unable to find a room, for the people did not like the smell of his opossum, so he was forced to spend his nights on ·a Harlem roof. And when the stars and moon came out, Booker T. saw the filth of Harlem and was saddened in heart. And Booker T. thought, \If the Irish have left their shanties, save some, and the Italians have left their tenements, save some, surely we, the Blacks; can leave the ghetto, or transform it into a good place to live for the people.\ And then he looked to the east and saw luxury apartments rising to the sky, and he saw the constantly swept streets, and the uncrowded schools, and he said, \That is good.~' And then he looked at his opossum and laid it down, and he said, \L what would you have me do?'' And then a voice said, \Booker T., watch your opossum and pmy, and you would know these things that I would have you do.\ After these things were said and people had closed their windows, stillness fell over Harlem. All were asleep save Booker T. who was watching his opossum and prayirtg. And when morning came, nothing had happened, and Booker T. cried out: \My God, Why have you forsaken me? Why Lord? Why?\ Then an army of roaches and rats crept from all over Harlem and filled the roof and .cCJmmenced to consume the opossum, and Booker T. marvelled at God's work. Still Booker T. did not understand, but 'he questioned God not. Then the wind .blew and the rats and roachesa.nd the opossum blew off the 'roof onto the street below. Not :it came to past that some White sociologists were walking the streets, of Hariem, studying what the White power structure had done to people for the umpte-enth time, and the rats and roaches fell before their feet, and the sCJciologists commenced to gnash th.eir teeth and rend their clothes as they ran away in fear. All these things Booker T. saw. Then Booker T. knew what the Lord \Would have him d.o to save his people. The-n one day, the voice ct>.rne back, and it said, \Booker T., tell your pe()ple to come out into the streets and bring with them their rat~ and roaches.'' And lo and behold, all the Blacks of Harlem were .assembled into the streets, with their rats and roaches parading to their left flank, their right flank, their front and their rear. And the people with their life long friends. the rats and reaches, prayed and marched to the east side of town, and to the four corneFS of Long Island and Staten Island. And they went to all· the places th:e Whites called horne. The rats and roaches, being well \Versed in guerilla warfare, plagued the Whites with their tactful indulgence, until the Blacbnan's enemy gnashed their teeth, rended their clothing, and t~JOk baths in the East River. Whew they Cried!! Then Booker T. said, ~·we will- · marcb and bring you tllese gifts until 'We have peace., and a piece of the action in this land,\ And they did march. And when the Whites saw that the Blacks would march until they received a piece of the action, they began to relent .their sins for their comfort was very important to them. WheiV!! And the slums were cleared, and tile rats and roaches had no place to hide, and they disappeared from the land or discerned themselves to the Active Reserve. Anc. the land rejoiced, and there was peace in the land, and Lhe Blacks got a piece of the action. And Booker T. went to the highe~t building in the land so that he could be closer to his God, and he prayed to him and . thanlced him for fhe wonders that ·his people had received. And thr Lord called unto Booker T. and said, \Booker T. Booker T. be glad not, Booker T., for you have only received a piece of the same old shit! Gird your loins~ for yo\ur work h~s only. just begun!!\ , ............................. - ... - ... --.-· ............................... ~ • ! . ! . I ; i I NEXT DEAD LINE I : FOR PERSPECTIVE i -~ ·I I I I I I : . : : IS Nov. 17, 1974. Please have · your : i : 1 contributions typed and double ·spaced. : i Sp.bmit to Isidra Person; Editor,, Rm. 108 I 5 Hickok House. .I : : : . • • • • -~ : lftiiPHIIItilt ........... IIIHIIIiiiHiillll-llll•ll•llt.8111tlllllllllltiiRIUIIIBUIIII•aiiOI • .i

. ·'} PageD PERSPECTIVE, Wednesday, November 6; 1974 SPORTS ············································~·· Ali I the Gr·eat I guess evecybody is awaFe of the results of the A'ti-Foreman fight, however, just to be repetitive, M uhamma.d Ali was the victor. Boxing is not high ·()n my list as one of my favorite sports, but I greatly admire Muhammad AI!. ~ think that it is rather .perplexmg to the white populus of the United States as to why a great number of Blacks (maybe a majority) hold this rnan in sue~ high esteem, but the answer IS rather simple. Ali symbolizes the struggle that Blacks have had over the years with. the white power structure of this country. -Ali to some, is rather ' . controversial. Just because he ts a man who takes pride in himself, and his beliefs, does that ·in itself cause him to be the center of controversy? His refusal to be inducted into the armed forces of the United States because of his religious and moral beliefs was the frosting on the cake to the whites in ''power.\ So one day, a group ()f these \white devils\ got together, and tried to think of ~­ way to shame Ali personally and publicly. If his conscientious objector stance held up in court, how could they defame such a well-known personality? These .tow-life heings decided to strip him of one of his most prized possessi<Jns, his boxing title. But did this ston him? NO! · After all 'the legal battles that finally ensued, Ali was allowe~ to pursue his career, and pursue It he did. Any other man may have crumbled at the tbought of rebuilding a brilliant career that seemed destined to adversities, but not Ali. Oh, it was not easy, w.ith heartbreaking defeats at the hands <Jf Joe Frazier and Ken Norton, but with rematches with b<Jth, h.e proved to the world that he was the Ali of old. Here was a--man who overcame the degrading tactics of a few evil- minded whites to strip him of his pride and Black manhood, and proved to the world that he truly is the greatest. Frank Robinson: A token appointment? If you think about it for a minute, you will probably agree with the assumpti<Jn that I am about to make. Tbe assumption being that the three major sports' stardom, baseball, football, and basketball, are dominated by Blacks. Year after year, Blacks are · chosen as the Most Valuable Player in their respective sport;, and the all-star rosters in football, baseball, and basketball are filled with the presence of Black athletes. So why has it taken it so damn long for team. owners to realize that Blacks are able to manage off the field., as well as perform on the field. This is not to say that just llecause an individual is an excellent baseball player, does not necessarily constitute his being an able baseball manager. f<1r e~mpl!!, Ted Williams. He was an outstanding ballplayer, but as a manager he really stank. At least Mr. Willliims had an opportunity to prove himself as the head of a team, I can hardly say that for the Black star until now_ A fe.w, weeks ago Frank Robinsoti: was chosen as the · ' · Qf the Cleveland \'ho .knows bas~eN:tll has heard R ()binson. He career with the wttere he was League's Craig Jackson in one of his many faces. most valuable player, then he was traded to the Baltimore Orioles . where he again was chosen as the American League's MVP. Mr. Robinson has since played with the Los Angeles Dodgers and as a designated hitter with the California Angels. In his off seasons, Mr. Robinson has managed winter league baseball in Puerto Rico, and very successfully, Men who have played with him, and for him have talked of his ability to get along with v:arious types of individuals. The owners of the Cleveland Indian Organization have recognized the leadership potentials in this man, and are giving him a chance to prove himself as a manager. The eyes of the world will closely watch the developments of his career as a big league immager, and carefully scrutinize his every move. The members of the Black Student Alliance at Union College would like to congratulate Frank Robins<Jn, and wish him success as a manager. We can only hope that this iS. no token appointment. and t~t Bla<:k athletes will be . . . given an opportunity to prove their le-adership abilities not o-nly in basebdl 1 but in other sports as well. · .. Maybe you'll be a little gentler next time j and come home a little bit earlier next time/You might even s.tay,bome for dinner next time./Naybe you'll be a little sweeter,,;next time/and give up I -A· \''l' '• .,,. ' . just,:*~~t,l,;ight of t.v. sports ~ext tin'l~/Jf~9i<lY even spend a mght awa~;t' :!(r~ifl the boys next t'.itl.le/:May.b,~ . you'll be more affe-etiQffi.l'~. next time fand realize tba:tjoU,:,);~tve tne next time/You m,igflfeVe;rtf.ind t.hat you need me next time.-/ And maybe I'll be around .... NEXT TIME!/ UTAMU Physical Phytness \Sitting on• the slopjar waiting for my bowels to move\ During that waiting is when the noblest of us come up wi~h our best ideas,. and that's where tbe idea for the exercise class originated. One of the sisters noticed that she was out .of shape and knew that she'd never stick to any exercise program by herself. So, she notified the rest of us, and now at 11:00 every night some of j us exercise · together in Hickok's basement lounge. We use a book called, \Gymna11tics for Women\ which has some hellified stunts in it. Every time :we complete the section on exercises, we start all over, increasing the count by five, and I must say we are going strong. All other sisters are invited to join us, because, y'know, contrary to popular. belief, the revolution is coming. Though it is always quietest in the eye of the storm, we must still get ready, cause its got to end some day. ·string beans \4 lb. bacon 2\1.1 qts. water I Y2 lbs. string beans l!-'2 tsp. salt pepper (to taste) red pepper (to taste) Cook meat. Mix with all other ingredients and cook for about 35 minutes or until tender. Serves about 5. Sharon ~rown . tontinued from Page C ranging from· the gang's -drums and chants - to sirens and stoned raps.\ The gang they talked about is a local street gang in which Sonny Carson, played by professional actor, Rony Clanton, is deeply involved. The story takes place in the 1950's, and Sonny, by age I? soon finds himself leader of that gang and also a convict. While in jail, Sonny escapes becoming a drug addict which upon returning home he finds- most of his friends and his old lady didn't. Sonny is under constant attact in the picture - all attacks being symbolic of that which Black folk do deal with living in the city. And by the time half of the flick is up, we're hit so hard ove'r the head with.moral implications and heavy boo-ho<J scenes that we're unable tQ absorb any more. This is a definite minus for Campus. because a break was needed in the sad acting or some crying scenes should have been omitted. Everytime you see Sonny past the .halfway mark, he's crying about something new. True, we suffer hardships, but a movie won't , open anyone's eyes to it if it's seen that we're constantly crying, something which most Black men just don't do. The level of depression is very high by the movie's end, but you don~t know whether it's sympathy or the fact that you paid good money to see a · grown rnan sniff and snot thf()Ugh constant beating, losses of freedom, family, etc. Campus d~s come up with another plus, however,. because despite the tears, Sonny comes out being a community leader. Maybe white people just don't understand our tears. And when white folks direct . Black folks to live Black lives , I • h something is lost Iil t e translation. Aseba Harris and Larry Cvoke Halloween Party. Continued from Page A Black student community comes simHarities. But as the nation into .play. The house· now expanded, so did its citizenry in ()Ccupied by the Black st\ldents is fashion, cultural and ethnic not making money. Tho.se of us . diversification. Along with the who know the situatiop. a,t t~e nation, the econemy grew, house recognize that fact. Because increasing America's wealth and of this \deficit\ in· the· housing prestige. The members of the old program, Union will have to take guard and their relatives, being qrastic steps. One of t~ose steps, is partial to tradition, divided up the to lull the black student wealth among themselves. To comm1,1nity to sleep, so operati~n make a long story cultural and sterilization can .be.· initiated. ethnic discrimination resulted in Union will then divide and the unusual distributic;m of wealth relocate the disi>ersed. Black. and prestige. You being Black stUdents, to separate corners of know the story from here, and the campus. This .will he!p Union have recognized your position in .in two respects. One is that Unio·n American society. So you ~trive will then be able to maximize the for something better, and use of H ickock by filling it with evecy.body tells you that a college ••paying customers\. The other education would ,prove beneficial. benefit to this is the type of black But if you check the situation pe.rs.on Union desires here. It's nothing ever changes unless you well known that Union frowns' change~·· meaning, turning colors. · upon anti-traditional and And you, being Black,. don't do it, revolutionary ideas .. ·Beil)g- based and decide that whatever you do, on tradition, like America itself, you'll do it Black. Blackness Union believes one creed, and one becomes a tradition, no more credo· shaH exist only. So the social fraternity. You begin to 1movesbeingsuggestedbyallthese · ·come close to each other ... love committees on Racial Harmony ··each other ... live and eat with or Student Unity, is only an ·each other ... realizing that you attempt to place the Black student just love living, eating, sleeping community in jeopardy, Black. Now at this point, just threatening the very existence of when you're about to really relax, blackness. This contradiction in here comes trouble. You've been equality and unity towards non- picked up as the ''lucky\ recipient alikes, has deep roots in of free membership into the American History. Black people formerly . exclusive white only for one, are aware of the \Trojan country club. You think II You Horse\ from personal experience accept this invitation to come to and will try like hell to destroy Union, knowing damn wed it'll be such moves. If Union is serious something you'll regret. Surprise, about all those ••new\ changes in Union has a Black House (A..K.A. attitudes and action, they ~ould slave quarters) and you don't discontinue the fraudulent efforts have to leave your Blackness at to ••acquire\ the confidence of home. Now - here's the real test, Black students here. Black America is going through another students don't want to be one of those crisis periods. It'll patronized, never will. They just seem like only a tremor, but want to function, create, and live watch out all the time for signs of as themselves in a healthy, earthquake. Money is tight all truthful environment. The over, even for some of those who .brethren here know damn well have it. But ... they like all other what's going on and all that businesses operate on a harmony and unity nonsense profit/ deficit basis; Because of the that's being sold won't get over. If tight money situation, losses have Union wants to push a new to be kept at a. minimum if at all. program or image, it•ll do much Union is in that situation. Union better by first :changing. the has money, makes money and approach, as well as, the spends money. The trick is to \packaging\. IThenandonlythen, have and make more money than can objective communications you spend. This is where the and relations flourish at Union. Loneliness There are so many people around me and yet I am al<Jne Faces of unconcerned stone surround me as, I express my anguish at being needed by no one Everyone tits as do the pieces ofa puzzle I alone do not interlock-help complete the whole I scream I am in pain No one seems t•l hear My patterns of everyday living which once were so strong are crumbling Life .is becoming quite meaningless And my reasohs for existing are decreasing one by one I cry out for help and am ignored My pleas seem to fall on deafears. Is there no one who can hear'? Is. there no one who can feel as I do'? Numbness.is overcoming my entire being. Emotions are becoming dormant -And the person who was once me is dying. Utamu - t co su rec .ne ne ch lro m• de tb ac• ch fu a~ C<J Ct Co th st c c & Co Co n a u fj c

the Jack ruon it's this y on so eavy has lend to ani Nov. prize is in pick cores same the ella's they an with The Psi, 1974-75 STUDENT DIREC- TORIES are now available at · soe each at the Cashier's . Office, Room 3, , Adi!lini~tration Bujldipg. . ' Symposium:. The Advantages ·of A!!phalt over Grass as an Institutional Surface. Simda;v, 8:00 AM on the rink site. A gentleima,n is not an implement. -Confucius Vol. 104, No.7 ,w,~~~es~ay, November 13, 1974 35 cents ~ - The Economics Tax Committe,e • In Action· . . . ·- . of Energy Aided by a $15,900 gr.ant from the Rockefeller Foundatio;n, Associate Professot Thomas Ke.rshner and Assistant Professor James kenney have launched an: economic study of the demands, pressures and difficulties facing electric utilities in New York State. Their project, which is slated for .completion by next July 31, is entitled · \Economic Aspects of Energy Resource Management: The Case. of the Electric Utilities in New York State.\ \Then;: is so much mis- understanding in this critically important area,\ says Dr.· Ke:Qney. .\We as economists, want. to ta~ke a hard look at such issues as the costs incurred by utilities in meeting environmental standards. Also, we want to examjne what the implications of curr~nt policy and regulations will be in the future.\ banking an·d underwriting community oil Wall Street. Among their, i-nformatio:n sources will be the detailed financial date and de.mand forecasts that utilities must file with the. PSC, plus PSC records and studies, and data from numerous federal and stai~ government agencies, \At one time utility company stock was considered a great investment and the utilities could raise the huge amounts of money needed for new facilities,\ says Kenney; \but today there are ·serious questions about where the moriey for. future capital improvements ~ill come from,\ In their study, the professors hope to ex.amine alternative means of financing capital investments. Continued on page ~ As part of their study, they plan to inter-view utility company ex~cut·ives, representatives of th.e Public · Service Co·mmission (PSC), · a~d member§ of the The· Jfa.tsO:(t. ·F:ello.w.sh,ip· ·~ ~ . :: -·~ .: \' Jatpes D. Barber, Political Science. Professor at. Duke University; will speak at Union on Thursday, November 14 at 8:00 p;m. in SS016. The title of Professor Barber's tecture is \Avoidi.lg Disaster; Choosing Presidents After Watergate.\ Barber, one of the nation's most prominent_ political scientists is concerned with being able to predict the actions of future Presidents. He desires to '''foresee the climate of his administration~ the mode witii which. :he will appr-oach the rec,urrent challenges and opportunities presehted by the office.\ This is the. first in a series of Watsons · have beeri awarded articles on programs open to totaling over $2, 723,00. Union Union Students.. arid 34 other colleges participate Two weeks:~go Union College in the program. Each college designated follJ' students to be its nominates four students for the nominees for. the Thomas J. seventy fellowships awarded ~a<;h Watson Fellowship Program. The year. The fellowships .are worth four students will ·now be $7,000 each (or $9,500 for presented to the national married students) to be .. used committee which makes the final during the year immediately designation ·on who will be following graduation. awarded the fellowship. The The fellowship is a fantastic winners will be announced by 1 program. The Founda.tion hopes approximately March 15. to provide Fellows an The Watson is a relatively new opportunity for a focused and program. The Watsotl disciplined Wandejabr of their Foundation, founded in 1961, own de~ising- a break in which began to give out the fellowships they might explore with in 1968. Since then over 398 thoroughness a particular interest, Brewer and Shipley: See them Saturday night at 9:00 in the Chapel with Aztec Two-Step. test their aspirations and abilities, view their lives and American society in greater perspective and develop a more informed sense of international concern. The main criteria b:y which the committee selects its Fellows is Continued on page 4 3rd Floor Archives by JANET CHAPMAN Does the school library really have 3 floors (excluding the mezzanine)? Much t<> many a freshman'S' amazement, there is a 3rd floor, the Lincoln Manacher Rare Book Room, Which can only be reached by elevat()r. Remodeled just this summer, the room is now able to hold all of Union College\'s Special Collections. It formerly held the science oriented books hut they've been moved downstairs, making room for the complete collection. Mrs. Frances Miller is Union's archivist. Having worked at Union for the past 10 years, her position as archivist , .. just ·sort of developed.\ Experienced from doing free lance editing for several New York publishers and having worked with a.rchives, she is well qualified for tile job. The Collections cover a wide variety of subject matter ranging from American wit and humor to Union Coliege student records. The first purchases for the College library, chieny religious bo.oks, were made back in 1796 and are still included in today's collection. lhe 3 biggest co'llections of manuscripts are as follows:. the Continued on page 3 What is done with the $150,000 by CINDY SHEPPARD I he Tax Committee which consists of three students IS responsible for the allocation of $150,000 annually. The money is the rdult of the $25 student activity fee, which is charged to stude·nts each semester. The Tax Committee, then, determines the use of all student activity funds. It appropriates money to numerous student organizations, ranging from the Social Committee to the more narrow special~interest groups and clubs. This year, the Committee is composed of Nick Coward '76, chairman; Bill Talis '76, secretary; and Dave Eilbott '75. The Tax Committee designates money to student groups on a yearly basis, rather than a semes.ter basis. The committee contends that it is more expedient to operate in this manner. although some uses are clearly seasonaL Meeting approximately five hours per week, the Committee reviews budget proposals of various student groups. Eac'h spring, organizations account for their use of previous funds am:' they .predict what their future financial requirements will be. The Tax Committee examines this information with leaders of the individual organizations. Allocation of Funds Talis explains that one major problem concerns allocations to groups that are very narrow in scope. As an example, he cites Continued on Page 3 Dog by RHONDA KAPLAN Once again the issue of dogs on campus is causing an upheaval that could topple the N ott Memorial with ease. Many people feel that this issue doesn't concern them. Considering that there are only 21 dogs registered makes one wonder why such a fuss is being made. Though if one has been unfortunate as to where they've walked, they would begin to see (and smell) only part of the problem, To avoid complications and confusions, a set of regulations regarding pets on campus has been established. A copy should be posted on the bulletin board in each dorm. Each dog must be registered, whic!\: includes leaving a $50 deposit; fif<teen dollars of which is the registration fee while the remaining $35 will be returned at the end of the year if no fines Colltinued on page 3

the ager it's earn this on so has ever lend to an ny Nov. prize me 1s giatc ill in p1eh me agee the thl'j hree an with I he useJ Psi. w iII 1974-75 STUDENT DIREC· TORIES are now available at 50¢ each at tile Cashier's Off.ice, Room 3, Administration Blllilding. Symposiwn: The Advantages of Asphalt over Grass as an Institutional Surface. Sunday, 8:00AM on the rink site. , A gentleman is noi an implement. - Conf uci tiS Vol. 104, NCJ. 7 .Wednesday, November 13, 1974 35 cents The Economics Tax Committee in Action of Energy Aided by a $15,900 grant from the Rockefeller Foundation. Associate Professor Thomas Kershner and Assistant Professor James Kenney have Ia unc hed an ~conomic study of tht: demands. pressures a 11d difficulties facing electric utilities in New York State. Their project, which is slated for completion by next July 31, is entitled ··h:onomic Aspects of Energy Resource Management: The Case of the Electric Utilities in New York State.\ \There is so much mis- understand·ing in this critically important area,\ says Dr. Kenney. \VIe as economists, want to take a hard look at such issues as the costs incurred by utilities in meeting environmental standards. Also, we want to examine what the implications of current policy and regulations will be in the future.\ baroking and underwriting community on Wall Street. Among their, information sources will be the detailed financial date and demand lorecasts that utilities must file with the PSC, plus PSC records and studies, and data from numerous federal and state government agencies. \At one time utility company stock was considered a great investment and the utilities could raise the huge amounts of money needed for new facilities,\ says Kenney, \but today there are serious questions about whete the money for future capital improvements will come from.\ In their study, the professors hope to examine alternative means of financing capital investments. Continued on page 4 As part of their study, they plan to interview utility company executives, representatives of the Public Service Commission (PSC), and members of the The Watson Fellowship Jaq~es D. Barber, Political Science Professor at Duke University .. will speak at Union on Thursclay~ November 14 at 8:00 p.m. in SSO 16. The title of Professor Barber's lecture is \Avoiding Disaster; Choosing Presidents After Watergate.\ Barber, one of the nation's most prominent political scientists is concerned with being able to predict the actions of future Presidents. He desires to \foresee the climate of his administration, the mode with which he will approach the recurrent challenges and opportunities presented by the office.\ This is the first in a series of articles on programs open to Union Students. Two weeks ago Union College designated four students to be its nominees for the Thomas J. Watson Fellowship Program. The four students will now be presented to the national committee which makes the final designation on who will be awarded the fellowship. The winners will be announced by approximately March 15. The Watson is a relatively new program. The Watson Foundation, founded in 1961, began to give out the fellowships in 1968. Since then over 398 Watsons have been awarded totaling over $2, 723,00. Union and 34 other colleges participate in the program. Each college nominates four students for the seventy fellowships awarded each year. The fellowships are worth $7,000 each (or $9,500 for married students) to be used during the year immediately following graduation. The fellowship is a fantastic program. The Foundation hopes to provide Fellows an opportunity for a focused and disciplined Wandejahr of their own devising - a break in which they might explore with thoroughness a particular interest, Brewer and Shipley: See them Saturday night at 9:00 m the Chapel H'ith Aztec Two-Step. test their aspirations and abilities, view their lives and American society in greater perspective and develop a more informed sense of international concern. The main criteria by which the committee selects its Fellows is Continued on page 4 3rd Floor Archives by JANET CHAPMAN Does the school library really have 3 floors (excluding the mezzanine)? Much to many a freshman's amazement, there is a 3rd floor, the Lincoln Manacher Rare Book Room, which can only be reached by elevator. Remodeled just this summer, the room is now able to hold all of Union College's Special Collections. It formerly held the ~cicncc oril'ntcd hook' hut tht..·,:.\c been mo\cd dow mtair,, making room for the complete collection. Mrs. Frances Miller is Union's archivist. Having worked at Union for the past 10 years, her position as archivist \just sort of developed.\ Experienced from doing free lance editing for several New York publishers and having worked with archives. she is well qualified for the job. lhe Collections cover a wide variety of suhject matter ranging from American wit and humor to Union College student records. !'he first purchase~ tor the ( 'ollege lihrary. chicfh rehg1nu~ honk~. werl' made hack tn I 796 and are still included In today·~ collection. I he J oiggcst C<~llections nl manuscripts are as follnv.s: the Continued on page.\ What 1s done with the $150,000 by Ul\iD\' SHEPPARD I he I ax Committee which consists of three students 1s responsible for the allocation of SI50,00U annually. I he money is the result of the $25 student activity fee, which is charged to students each semester. The Tax Committee. then. determines the use of all student activity funds. It appropriates money to numerous student organizations, ranging from the Social Committee to the more narrow special-interest groups and clubs. rhis year, the Committee is composed of Nick Coward '76, chairman; Bill Talis '76, secretary; and Dave Eilbott '75. The Tax Committee designates money to student groups on a yearly basis. rather than a semester basis. The committee contends that it is more expedient to operate in this manner. although some uses are clearly seasonal. Meeting approximately five hours per week. the Committee reviews budget proposals of \arious student groups. Each spring, organizations account for their use of previous funds anc' they predict what their future financial requirements will he. I he Tax Committee examines this information with leaders of the individual organizations. Allocation of Funds I alis explains that one major problem concerns allocations to groups that are very narrow in scope. As an example. he cites Continued on Page 3 Dog Days by RHONDA KAPLAN Once again the issue of dog~ on campu~ 1!1 \.dU!>Illg dll upheaval that wuld topple the :-..ott Memorial with ease. Many people feel that this issue doesn't concern them. Considering that there are only 21 dogs registered makes one wonder why such a fuss is being made. Though if one has been unfortunate as to where they've walked. they would begin to see (and smell) only part of the prohiem. lo avoid complications and confu.sions, a set o! regulatwns regarding pets on campus has hecn cstahlished. A cop~· shnulJ he posted on the hulk·tin hoard 111 each dnrm. hK·h Jog must ht: regiqt•red. w hie~: mcludl'' k',t\ 111~ a $50 depm1L f1Neen dollars 11! \\hil·h 1s the regi~trat1nn Icc \\hllc the remaining $J5 \\Ill he retmned at the end of the \ear 1! no f 111e~ Continued on page ·'

·:.j 1 ': t ~ ~ ' l t ~ l . ~ ; i !l \ ' I . Pagel CONCORDIENSJS, Wednesday, Nov. 13, 1974 47¥440 :; ~~< you said it Hro\rori2'B95~ . . ~ .. , <a .. !1 ··~ ,tl&,.tl Gi S. 2 ~ Editors-in-chief ............................. Chris O'Connor Rob Mondschein Culture Editor ..................................... Peter Sobol Features Editor ................................... Jon Scheer Sports Editors .............................. Kevin Crawford Bill Underhill Photo Editors ................................... Bob Johnson Ellen Radack Danny McManamon Graphic Arts Editor ......... , ................ Bob Johnson M· . Ed' . anagmg . 1tor. .......................... Doug Carpenter Contributing Editors ............................. Judy Dein Fred Weinstein Hi . lEd. . . stonca · ltor ...................................... Bill Tahs Business Manager ............................. Jennifer Port National Advertising .......................... Steve Kelley Subscriptions Editor ...................... :···-·.···Lisa Tietz Joanne Laufer Art Staff.. ............ .... ..... ... ........ Marianna Petrik Jill Dannenberg CONCORDIENSIS is published every Wednesday by the student body of Union College, Old Gym Hall, Schenectady, N, Y. Publications Office: The Jewish World Publications, 771 State St., Schenectady, N.Y. 12307 (346-2356). Entered in the Schenectady Post Office as Second Class Matter. Subscription Rate 35 cents pe'r copy. $8.00 a year delivered anywhere· in the United States. perspective Concordiensis has been getting some reaction to last week's Perspective. That's too bad. We don't edit Perspective so we're the wrong people to talk to. The editor can be reached through campus mail just like anyb()dy else. Concordie!lsis pays part of the costs of the bi- weekly printing of Perspective. To us, that amounts to support of free expression. The opinions, values, and beliefs of black students can be better expressed through a paper run by black students. This is not to say that Perspective is a paper exclusively for black students. The opinions and ideas expressed there are too important to be ignored by white students. Please, read Perspective. Get mad at it, congratulate it, be disgusted with it, or be amused by it, but don't ignore it. Bring your complaints or compliments to the editor. campus lights Concordiensis wishes to congratulate the administration for the installation of the new bright lights around the campus. We feel that this lighting is important for the safety of members of the college community. Once again- GOOD WORK! frank bailey Editors, Concordiensis: The article a,bout Frank Bailey, \Mr. Union\ in the Nov. 6 issue of Concotdy gave some good insight into what makes a college. Mr. Bailey's success in life demonstrates the value of a college experience. Things may be tougher for the graduate today, but let's hope, like Mr. Bailey, we don't forget that the money we invest in an education at Union is only a fraction of the real cost. To us, Frank Bailey may seem as distant as Henry Ford or Chester Arthur, but looking at the picture of his room, l see that he collected things like a human · skull, a bottle of HCL, and a big leather chair; in other words, he wasn't much different from the student body. It is good to be reminded of those who have given to Union, no matter how important they were or in what capacity they gave. Let's hope articles like this one about Mr. Bailey remind us of our duty after we leaveJ. A Stude-'t ,publ,ic interest? Editors, Concordiensis: This week I poticed a .petition circulating camplUi requesting student referendum for the raising ·of funds for an organization known as the Public Interest Research Group. The petition caHs for a $2 non,rnandatory fee to be placed on eaeh student's bill each term. I am aware that PIRG is a consumer-oriented group. pye que·stions ice . k d' .. r1n . . ec1s1ons We of the Schenectady Protect Your Envioronment Club were left with a. certain feeling of disquietude as work was begun on the new ice facility on November first. Our uneasiness arose not from the fact that the gift was accepted (indeed the offer was an overwhelming act of generosity on the part of Mr. Achilles) but rather that the construction of the facility was begun in such haste and without the consultation of the college community. We can appreciate, of course, the position in which the administration found itself, where acceptance of the gift required an almost immediate commencement of the construction, but we feel the decisions were too quickly made and are reflective of a somewhat dangerous sense of priorities. That the plans for the facility were taken to the Board of Trustees and put into effect without the benefit of the opinion of the College as a whole or of the Development Comm\ittee in particular is indicative of a disturbing lack of concern for these opinions on the part of the resportsibile parties. without first at least attempting to solicit differing opinions. In apprehensively looking ahead to see a Union College campus distinguishable from the rest of Schenectady only by the iron fence that delineates its periphery, we can only hope ~that in the future the Administration will realize that its system of values is not necessarily the only one, and that it will see fit 1o consult the c·ollege (in some other than an ex post facto manner) before changing the face of the campus that belongs to us all. Sincerely Gary M. Lovett for the Schenectady PYE club A student c._mmittee to work in the area of Career Counseling and Placement has recently been formed. The purpose of this committee is to help the office of career cqunseling to set up seminars dealing with various occupational fields and to offer feedback in this area from a students ()Oint of view. . We ask ourselves if a college . with a campus as small as Union's can afford to hastily develop its already scarce open space without first evaluating the aesthetic and environmental impact of the proposed development. The Administration's judgement that a million dollar skating complex is more valuable than the trees to the north of Daley Field may have been a sound one, but we question its right to impose that judgement upon the Cellege Members of tlte committee at this point are: Candace Dunlop, Rick Wellman, Pete McKernan a11d Theron Russell. Departments represented are:· Psychology, Chemistry. American Studies, and Political Science. If your department is not represented and you would like to get involved and help find out what kinds of opportunities are available for graduates in your discipline, please contact Susanna Miller, Director, office of Career Counseling and Placement; will- the circle b.e unbroken? Concordiensis extends its heartiest congratulations to the Davidson R.A.'s for their efforts in organizing this past weekend's tug-of-war · and party. Over six hundred dollars was raised to refurbish the Davidson Lounge. This message, however, is not directed primarily to those who worked so hard preparing the events of last weekend. It is directed to those who made that work necessary, i.e., the vandals who continually remove furniture from the lounge. This is not the first time that the Davidson Lounge has been stripped of furniture. The following Is an excerpt from a Concordiensis editorial written by then editor-in-chief Louis Snitkoff: ... \The Concordiensis handshake of the week goes to the coordinators of the Davidson-Lounge .. Band-and-Beer-Party presented last Friday night. The live band and free beer were enjoyed by all in the newly refurbished lounge ... With most of the furniture returned, the party ... should nelp di~courage confiscation of the chairs, tables, and sofas ... \ That editorial appeared in the November 2, 1971 issue of Concordiensis. We feel that this continued cycle of furnishing a lounge, having the furniture removed, and then re- furnishing it is getting s'illy. If people woulp realize the potential of .a lounge as a meeting and I ,pr partying place, rather than trying to turn their suites into penthouses; they might meet more people and complain less about the poor social life. Concordiensis sincerely hopes that the new furniture will stay put, and form the basis of an attractive, well-used lounge. We would hate to see this editorial reprinted once again two years from now. Ho:wev~r. I feel that before passage of such a referendum, PIRG must show Union where the money will go and how it Will be used in the interests of students. After all ~ $6 a head means· $12;000 a year, and I can .see a lot of good uses for that much money. Sincerely, Paul Siegel '77 r.a.'s grateful Editors, Concordiensis: We would like to take this opportunity to thank the many people that helped ma.ke Saturday's Rafters at Union a smashing success: Don Kaplan and· his D.J.s for some .great nrusic; Dave Mulligan and Greg Arthur for super lighting; John Dolan, Howie Axelrod, Jennifer Port, and Jeanne Neuman for general yeoman service; the men of Davidson for their good sportsmanship; and last but definitely not least, all you folks out there that came to the party and graced us with your presence - you're all beautiful. Sincerely, Fred Weinstein .Cliff Langweiler Geoff Taylor Bruce Eggleston Bruce Downsbrough Mitch Kahn biggs-rated x Having read Mr, Biggs' letter in the last Conc~rdiensis, I de.:;ided to investigate the production he referred to. I was pleased - but nat surprised, knowing Mr. Biggs - to find that the cast was made up of as nice a group of young people as one would care to meet. The play was far from offensive, the unnatural acts were merely mimed. While not for those of fastidious taste, UBU-RA TED X is in no way the ~ pi~ce of immorality that my old classmate, Mr. Biggs, portrays it as. This ought to startle only those who have never met Mr. Biggs, for, as anyone who has met him will readily testify, C, Owen Biggs Ill (or Biggsy, as we used to call him) is an unmitigated ass. Sincerely yours, Eliot Brasterman, class of '29 picket ubu Do you think there's too much degeneracy on the college scene today? Do y6u miss good, clean, crewcut American boys and girls? Then U BU-RA TED X is not for you. UBU is a filthy, foul-mouthed, evil-minded, unpatriotic, sexually depraved, morally bankrupt, politically weird, ontologically inconsistent, and sensation-mongering piece of smut. Stand up and be counted! Help me stamp out this latest threat to ·the montl fiber of America. Come picket 'UBU at the .-Cabaret, November 21st, 22nd and 23rd. Loyally yours, t. Owen Biggs IU · class of\29 The Jewish Singles. Club of the Capital District will hold a dance on Sunday evening, November 1 '7th, featuring the music of \Neon Park.\ The · event will take place -at the Heritage Village Apartment$ SoCial Half, Guilderland, and will begin at 8:0() p.m • Refreshments will be provided. The Singles Club is open to Jewish men and women between 20 and 30 years of age. - ha' ~ I are are am apl ma hal the ha1 the OW an~ the COl (.,~' fin vio dOi the COl ex] All un ha: re1 CO! cal Tr: frc th( th( fin WI: an $J tee wi SOl sta no ffil stt ru wl AI br or lik Stl 1

. I :>' I '; I . l . ' '' \'\ ·,': ' I ' ~~ ; ' \ ; • j ll. ·.··I .. ;·\ ' .. , I· , .. . . - ~ Page2 CONCORDIENSJS, Wednesday, Nov. 13, 1974 • O!mtrnr-bmnria ~ Editors-in-chief.. ........................... Chris O'Connor Rob Mondschein Culture Editor ..................................... Peter Sobol Features Editor ................................... Jon Scheer Sports Editors .............................. Kevin Crawford Bill Underhill Photo Editors ................................... Bob Johnson Ellen Radack Danny McManamon Graphic Arts Editor .......................... Bob Johnson Managing Editor ........................... Doug Carpenter Contributing Editors ............................. .Judy Dein Fred Weinstein Historical Editor. ..................................... Bill Talis Business Manager ............................. Jennifer Port National Advertising ............................ Steve Kelley Subscriptions Editor .............................. Lisa Tietz Joanne Laufer Art Staff.. ................................ Marianna Petrik Jill Dannenberg CONCORDIENSIS is published every Wednesday by the student body of Union College, Old Gym Hall, Schenectady, N.Y. Publications Office: The Jewish World Publications, 771 State St., Schenectady, N.Y. 12307 (346-2356). Entered in the Schenectady Post Office as Second Class Matter. Subscription Rate 35 cents per copy. $8.00 a year delivered anywhere· in the United States. perspective Concordiensis has been getting some reaction to last week's Perspective. That's too bad. We don't edit Perspective so we're the wrong people to talk to. The editor can be reached through campus mail just like anybody else. · Concordie!,lsis pays part of the costs of the bi- weekly printing of Perspecti'Ve. To us, that amounts to support of free expression. The opinions, values, and beliefs of black students can be better expressed through a paper run by black students. This is not to say that Perspective is a paper exclusively for black students. The opinions and ideas expressed there are too important to be ignored by white students. Please, read Perspective. Get mad at it, congratulate it, be disgusted with it, or be amused by it, but don't ignore it. Bring your complaints or compliments to the editor. campus lights Concordiensis wishes to congratulate the administration for the installation of the new bright lights around the campus. We feel that this lighting is important for the safety of members of the college community. Once again- GOOD WORK! $ you .said it frank bailey Editors, Copcordiensis: The article about Frank Bailey, \Mr. Union\ in the Nov. 6 issue of Concordy gave some good insight into what makes a college. Mt. Bailey's success in life demonstrates the vahJe of a college experience. Things may be tougher for the graduate today, but let's hope, like Mr. Bailey, we don't forget that the money we invest in an education at Union is only a fractian of the real cost. To us, Frank Bailey may seem a:s distant as Henry Ford or Chester Arthur, but looking at the picture of his room, I see that he collected things like a human · skull, a bottle .of HCL, and a big leather chair; in other words, he wasn't much different from the student body. It is good to be reminded of those who have given to Union, no matter how important they were or in what capacity they gave. Let's hope articles like this one about Mr. Bailey remind us of our duty after we leave~< A Student PU'bllc interest? Editors, Concordiensis: This week I noticed a petition circulating campus requesting student referendum for the raising of funds for an organization known as the Public Interest Research Group. The petition calls for a $2 non\'mandatory fee to be placed on each student's bill each term. I am aware that PIRG is a consumer-oriented group .. pye questions ice rink decisio:ns We of the Schenectady Protect Your Envioronment Club were left with a certain feeling of disquietude as work was begun on the new ice facility on November first. Our uneasiness arose not from the fact that the gift was accepted (indeed the offer was an overwhelming act of generosity on the part of Mr. Achilles) but rather that the construction of the facility was begun in such haste and without the consultation of the college community. We can appreciate, of course, the position in which the administration found itself, where acceptance of the gift required an almost immediate commencement of the construction, but we feel the decisions were too quickly made and are reflective of a somewhat dangerous sense of priorities. That the plans for the facility were taken to the Board of Trustees and put into effect without the benefit of the opinion of the College as a whole or of the Development Committee in particular is indicative of a disturbing lack of concern for these opinions on the part of the responsibile parties. We ask ourselves if a college with a campus as small as Union's can afford to hastily develop its already scarce open space without first evaluating the aesthetic and environmental impact of the proposed development. The Administration's judgement that a million dollar skating complex is more valuable than the trees to the north of Daley Field may have been a sound one, but we question its right to impose that judgement upon the College without first at least attempting to solicit differing opmtons. In apprehensively looking ahead to see a Union College campus distinguishable from the rest of Schenectady only by the iron fence that delineates its periphery, we can only hope <that in the future the Administration will realize that its. system of values is not necessarily the only one, and that it will see fit ~o consult the c·ollege (in some other than an ex post facto manner) before changing the face of the campus that belongs to us all. Sincerely Gary M\ Lovett fo_r the Schenectady PYE club A student committee to work in the area of Career Counseling and Placement has recently been formed. The purpose of this committee is to help the office of career cqunseling to set up seminars dealing with various occupational fields and to offer feedback in this area from a students point of view. . Members of the committee at this point are: Candace Dunlop, Rick Wellman, Pete McKernan and Theron Russell. Departments represented are: Psychology, Chemistry, American Studies, and Political Science. If your department is not represented and you would like to get involved and help find out what kinds of opportunities are available for graduates in your discipline, please contact Susanna Miller, Director, office of Career Counseling and Placement. will- the circle b.e unbroken? C oncordiensis ex tends its heartiest congratulations to the Davidson R.A.'s for their efforts in organizing this past weekend's tug-of-war· and party. Over six hundred dollars was raised to refurbish the Davidson Lounge. This message, however, is not directed primarily to those who worked so hard preparing the events of last weekend. It is directed to those who made that work necessary, i.e., the vandals who continually remove furniture from the lounge. This is· not the first time that the Davidson Lounge has been stripped of furniture. The following lS an excerpt from a Concordiensis editorial written by then editor-in-chief Louis Snitkoff: \The Concordiensis handshake of the week goes to the coordinators of the Davidson-Lounge- Band-and-Beer-Party p.resented last Friday night. The live band and free beer were enjoyed by all in the newly refurbished lounge ... With most of the furniture returned, the party . .. should lielp di~courage confiscation of the chairs, tables, and f , so as ... That editorial appeared in the November 2, 1971 issue of Concordiensis. We feel that this continued cycle of furnishing a lounge; having the furniture removed, and then re- furnishing it is getting silly. If people woulp realize the potential of a lounge as a meeting and/ £)r partying place, rather than trying to ttlrn their suites into penthouses, they might meet more people and complain le.ss about the poor social life. Concordiensis sincerely hopes that the new furniture will stay· put, and form the basis of an attractive, well-used lounge. We would hate to see this editorial reprinted once again two years from now. == Howev~r. I feel that before pass~ge of such a referend urn, PIRG must show Union whene the money will g0 and how it will be used in the interests of students. . ·After all ~ $6 a head means· $.12,000 a year, and I can see a lot of good uses for tha.t much money. Sil'lcerl!ly 1 Paul Siegel '77 r.a.'s grateful Editors, Concordieitsis: We would like to take this opportunity to thank the many people that helped make Saturday's Rafters at Union a smashing success: Don Kaplan and ·his D.J .. s for some great music; Dave Mulligan and Greg Arthur for super lighting; John Dolan, Howie Axelrod, Jennifer Port, and Jeanne Neuman for general yeoman service; the men of Davidson for their good sportsmanship; and last but definitely not least, all you folks out there that came to the party and graced us with your presence - you're all beautiful. Sincerely, Fred Weinstein Cliff Langweiler Geoff Taylor Bruce Eggleston Bruce Downsbroitgh Mitch Kahn biggs-r,ated x Having read Mr. Biggs' letter in the last Concordiensis, I decided to investigate ·the production he referred to. I was pleased - but not surprised, knowing Mr. Biggs - to find that the cast was made up of as nice a group of young people as one would care to meet. The play was far from offensive, the unnatural acts were merely mimed. While not for those of fastidious taste, UBU-RATED X is in no wa,y the ~ pi~ce of immorality that my old classmate, Mr. Biggs, portrays it as. This ought to startle only those who have never met Mr. Biggs, for, as anyone who has met him will readily testify, C. Owen Biggs HI (or Biggsy, as We used to call him) is an unmitigated ass. Sincerely yours, Eliot Brasterman, class of '29 picket ubu Do you think there's too much degeneracy on the college ·scene today? Do you miss good, clean, crewcut American boys and girls? Then UBU-RATED X is not for you. UBU is a filthy, foul-mouthed, evil-minded, unpatriotic, sexually depraved, morally bankrupt, politically weird, ontologically inconsistent, and sensation-mongering piece of smut. Stand up .and be counted! Help me stamp out this latest threat to the moral fiber of America. Come picket 1 UBU at the .. Cabaret, November 21st, 22nd and 23rd. Loyally yours~ C. Owen Biggs III · class of''29 The Jewish Singles Club of the Capital District will hold a dance on Sunday evening, November 17th, featuring the music of \Neon Park.\ The event will take place 4\t the Heritage Village Apartments Social Half, Guilderland, and will begin at 8:00 p.m. Refreshments will be provided. The Singles Club is open to Jewish men and women between 20 and 30 years of age. - ha ar' .ar ar: ar m ha th ha th 0\ ar th cc ~..:: fit vi d< th cc eJ~ A Ul h1 re C( ca T1 fr th th fil w at $: te w S( st nt m st n w A b o: li sl I

h y, a at or ks Ill he of X of his as Ill ene for ic, ird, of tto a g, d. CONCORDIENSIS, Wednesday, Nov. 13, 1971:. A Dog's World? Continu.ed from Page 1: have been incurred. That brings <me to the delicate area of fines and violations. There are two kinds of violations, mill.or and major, each having an appropriate · fine. Only three major violations exist so far: harm done to a ,person, having the dog in a dining area, a.nd having the dog off a leash wi~hm1t the owner being in sight. Since owners hold full responsibilityfor any damage done by their pets, the first of these major violations could be very serious and lead to t-~tllplications far beyond a simple. ., fine. Three minor or two major violations require removal <>f the dog from campus for ·the rest of the year. Anyone who fails 1f> comply With these regulations,e:an· ex.pect severe action· to be taken. Another \no-no\ is owning an unregistered . dog. Once this happens, you have 48 hours to register him or face the consequences. Senate prepares to remove dogs if owners don't cooperate. Any student given a v•olation can plead his case to the Cou11t on Traffic and Pets within 7 days from the time of notification of the violation. By a majority vote the Court will either uphold the fine or dismiss it completely. They will also keep a record of fines and deduct the amount fr-om the $35 deposit, but enough w.itn technicalities. · The issue of dogs on camp.us will be coming \up for a vote soon which will determine if they stay or go. It's up to all students, not just the ones with pets, to make the system work. Those students with pets should find the rules easy enough to follow, which is of ma~n importaace. Anybody with complaints should bring them to the Security Office or the Court. Most people de>n't like the idea of turning in a fellow student but it has to be done so that those individuals who cannot accept the responsibility can be dealt with without infringing on the others who are abiding by the rules. It would be unfortunate to let a few inconsiderate people ruin .a nice situation. Since faculty ·opinion has a lot to do with the continuati·on of this set up, we should do all we can to gain favor and backing. FRESHMEN: Fraternity bids will take place on Wednesday the 13th and Tllursday the 14th in West C·ollege Dini11g Hall during lunch and dinne.r. The second bid date will be the 4th and 5th of l>ecernber. Continued' from Page I lJ ilion's amateur shortwave radio station, W2UC, among other groups which serve a purpose for a small segment of Union S t u d e n ts . S u c h l i m i t ed organizations are a problem, he says; it is important to ·encourage diverse organiZations, but it is not always fair to the whole student body. Although it provides a unique service, he says, \It's a very parochial organization. that I don't think is deserving of funds.\ It is a function of the Committee to work out this conflict: This year's allocations have caused several controversies. One problem concerns Linebll,cker, the course evaluation publication, which has been the subject of much controversy in recent years. Linebacker distribution changed from booklet form to insertion in Concordiensis last year. There is now pressure for the Linebacker staff to type the evaluation and post copies on every dorm floor and in the library. This procedure wou·ld save $800 over the p'rinting in Concordiensis. Talis says that the Committee has yet ta resolve this problem with the Linebacker editorial staff. In budgeting, the Tax Committee is faced with some critical decisions. Talis shows that the Black Student Alliance (BSA) was a difficult decision. The very nature of the organization makes tlie appropriation process difficult, he says. Many see the BSA as blatently -segregational, and financial support they contend· perpetuates race problems by maintaining segregation, on the otherhand, the Committee recognizes the need for enabling a cultural expression that minority students cannot find elsewhere on campus. As a solution, the Committee appropriated money with the understanding that the BSA will The retaining wall which keeps the Brook from washing away the Fieldhouse, which collapsed Monday. More of the wall prepares to cash in its chips. Is this an omen of coming 1ifficU/tles with the ice rink? \extend activities to the rest of the campus.\ Talis explains that the BSA activities are for the benefit -of the whole campus, not a small part of it. He continues to say that there is ••a burden on the BSA, to reach out to the campus and show that they aren't a segregationalist organization.\ \If they a-ren't an organization for the entire campus,\ he warns, \they will be perceived in a much different light ne·xt year.\ BSA appropriations total $12;000 this year, reflecting a major jump over last year's $6,000. The decision, a result of The exciting media preoccupation with student activities during the 1960's may be dead, but student activism is very much alive in the form of Public Interest Research Groups. As the step-child of Ralph Nader and his associate Donald Ross, PIRG is a non- partisan, non-profit research and advocacy organization funded and directed by students from participating colleges. Each PIRG hires a fulltime. staff .to assist in the implimentation of policy and provide necessary continuity in programs. The New York Public Interest Research Group, Inc. (NYPIRG) began at Syracuse University in · 1972. The membership has now grown to include Albany Law School, RPI, Skidmore, SUNY at Albany, Queens College, SUNY at Buffalo, SUNY at Binghamton, Colgate, Utica College, Hamilton and Kirkland. Organizing efforts are underway at about ten other colleges, including Union. NYPlRG has completed many projects during the past year, some having localized effects while others are statewide. A group of students from RPI took the city of Troy to task for a poorly administered property tax system. A study of prescription drug prices by SUNY Albany, RPI and Skidmore students has resulted in a NYPIRG lawsuit to declare unconstitutional a state regulation which 'effectively restricts price competit.ion by pharmacists. According to a report written by a NYPI RG attorney, the N.Y. State Consumer Board has virtually abdicated its responsibilities in consumer protection. As a result of the study, NYPlRG's proposal for a new and more vital hoard has been introduced in the state legislature and will be considered during the upcoming term. NYP.IRG's largest project thus far involved about 150 students working on profiles of every state legislator. A booklet on each assembly-person and senator was prepared to help New York residents understand the representative and the legislative process. Student involvement in NYPIRG ranges from volunteer Fesearch to spending an entire term as a staff person in one of the state offices. The legislative · internship program is unique in that it puts a student in the positien of a public interest lobbyist rather than a clerk for a legislator. PIRG has successfully been involved in a multitude of other important reforms and now the N.Y. State. office is giving Union College students the opportunity to set up its own fully operative branch. The major obstacle preventing the formation of our own chapter is that PJRG cannot operate unless it can acquire a fina·ncial base. In order to collect this moiley, two additional dollars Page3 some 12 !Jours of meetings, was termed \a big risk\. Steering Committee will take action this year, in order to alter the group for next year. Related, Talis explains that the Committee is not very visible. Organizations directly involved in the process are obviously aw?- re of it, however, the average student is not familiar with t ne use of his or her student activity fee. Finally, the Tax Committee allocations for this year have not been completed. The list accompanying this article lists the actions taken up to this point. per semester would be added to the student activities fee. This \tax\ is optional; it will be refunded within the first ·few weeks after the commencement of a trimester, if a student requests. Interested students went before the Steering Com{nittee on Monday, Nov. II to discuss the chances of forming our own PIRG and taxing the students for this purpose. They were informed that the matter would be tabled for two weeks and that student support would be needed bef'?re further plans wou·ld be considered. Petitions are therefore being circulated around campus and the approval of every student is needed. For those who are sure they want to work for NYPIRG or who are curious about its operation, a meeting wi11 be held on Nov. 20, in S.S.OI6 at 8:00. Donald Ross (one of the founders of the Citizen Action Group in Washington) will be the speaker. If your wish to help with petitioning, publicity, or you have any questions please contact the hall number 346-9292 and ask for PIRG. Rare Books ( 'ontinued from Page John Bigelow Papers, a diplomat's papers; the William James Stillman Collection, a study of art ; and the Alexanderson Papers, which deal with the alternator that made trans-Atlantic radio possible, and inventions connected with the television. This later collection was contributed by Dr. Ernst F. W. Alexander who is still living today. The Lincoln Manacher Room has a good sized Union Collection comprised of numerous articles related to the college faculty, students, school laws, and societies. This college material dates back to Union's founding date and is an ongoing collection. The manuscript material consists of faculty and student diaries, faculty minutes and old letter books. Dqting the period 1795-1908 the college kept bill books. These were records of the bills and fines ea~h student paid throughout his college years. Beginning in 1810, the collection includes scholastic records which kept track of each student's courses and grades. This entire collection was designed to serve the college students. However,•because of the nature of the material, the room is not open to browsers. Those who have a patticular project are welcome to make use of the facility.

re re ill ot ny ke a lks rty jed he but ggs de ive, of of , as ni im) ean, for hed, and of to orne ret, of a nd m. to of CONCORDIENSIS, Wednesday, Nov. 13, 197:J:. Page3 A DogS World? . Continued from Page I have been incurred. That brings one to the delicate area of fines and violations. There are two kinds of violations, minor and major, each having an apprdpria:te · fine. Only three major violations exist so far: harm done to a person, having the dog in a dining area, and having the dog off a leash without the owner being in sight. Since owners hold full responsibility for any damage done by their pets, the first of these major violations could be very serious and lead to ~,~mplications far beyond a simple. ., fine. Three miner or two major violations require removal of the dog from campus for the rest of the year. Anyone who fails to comply with these regulations can· ex·pect severe action to be taken. Another \no-no\ is owning an unregistered . dog. Once this happens, you have 48 hours to register ·him or face the consequences. Senate prepares to remove dogs if owners don't cooperate. Any student given a violation can plead his case to .the Court on Traffic and Pets within 7 days from the time of notification of the violation. By a majority vote the Court will either uphold the fine or-dismiss it completely. They will also keep a record of fines and deduct the amount from the $35 deposit, but enough with technicalities. · The issue of dogs on campus will be coming- -up for a vote soon which will determine if they stay or go. It's up to all students, not just the ones with pets, to make the system work. Those students with pets should find the rules .easy enough to follow, which is of main importance. Anybody with complaints should bring them to the Security Office or the Court. Most people don't like the idea of turning in a fellow student but it has to be done so that those individuals who cannot accept the responsibility can be dealt with without infringing on the others who are abiding by the rules. It would be unfortunate to let a few inconsiderate people ruin .,a nice situation. Since faculty opinion has a lot to do with the continuation of this set up, we should do aU we can to gain favor and backing. FRESHMEN: Fraternity bids will take place on Wednesday the 13th and Thursday the 14th in West College Dining Hall duriQg lunch and dinner. The second bid date will be the 4th and 5th of December. Continued from Page J Union's amateur shortwave radio station, W2UC. among other .groups which se.rve a purpose for a small segment of Unie.n Students. Such limited organizations are a problem, he says; it is important to encourage diverse organizations, but itis not always fair to the whole student body. Although it provides a unique service, he says, \It's a very parochial organization .that 1 don't think is deserving of funds .. \ It is a futu;tion of the Committee to work out this conflict. This year's allocations have caused several controversies. One problem concerns Linebacker, the course evaluation publication, which has been fhe subject of much controversy in recent years. Linebacker distribution changed from hooklet form to insertion in Concordiensis last year. There is now pressure for the Linebacker stati to type the evaluation and post copies on every dorm floor and in the library. This procedure Would save $800 over the printing in Concordiensis. Talis .says that the Committee has yet to resolve this problem with the Linebacker editorial staff. In budgeting, the Tax Committee is faced with some critical decisions. Talis shows that the Black Student Alliance (BSA) was a difficult decision. The very nature of the organization makes t lie appropriation process difficult, he says. Many see the BSA as blatently -segregational, and financial support they contend· perpetuates race problems by maintaining segregation, on the otherhand, the Committee recognizes the need for enabling a cultural expression that minority students cannot find elsewhere o.n campus. As a solution, the Committee appropriated money with the understanding that the BSA will The retaining wall which keeps the Brook from washing away the Fieldhouse, which collapsed Monday. More of the wall prepares to cash in its chips. Is this an omen of coming r/ifficitlties with the ice rink? ·~extend activities to the rest of the camp~;~s.\ Talis explains that the BSA activities are for the benefit of the who!€ campus, not a small part of it. He continues to say that then: is \a burden on the BSA to reach out to the campus and show that they aren't a segregationalist organization.\ \If they aren't, an organization for the entire campus,\ he warns, \they will be perceived in a much different ·light next year.\ BSA appropriations total 3>·12;000 this year, reflecting a major j urn p over last year's $6;000. The decision, a result of some 12 twurs of meetings, was termed \a big risk\. Steering Committee will take action this year, in order to alter the grou:p for next year. Related, Talis explains th:1t the Committee is not very visible. Organizations directly involved in the process a•re obviously &W!'re of it, however, the average student is not familiar with tne use of his or her student activity fee. Finally, the Tax Committee allocations for this year have not been completed. The list accompanying this article lists the actions taken i.Ip to this point. PIR·G Lives The exciting media preoccupation With student activities during the 1960's may be dead, but student activism is very m1:1ch alive in the form of Public Interest Research Groups. As the step-child of Ralph Nader arid his associate Donald RGss, PIRG is a non- partisan, non-profit research and advocacy organization funded and directed by students from participating colleges. Each PI RG hires a fulltime. staff to assist in the implimentation of policy and provide necessary continuity in programs. The New York Public Interest Research Group, Inc. (NYPIRG) began at Syracuse University in - 1972. The membership has now grown to include. Albany Law School, RPI, Skidmore, SUNY at Albany, Queens College, SUNY at Buffalo, SUNY at ·Binghamton, Colgate, Utica College, Hamilton and Kirkland. Organizing efforts are underway at about ten other colleges, including Union. NYPI.RG has completed many projects during the past year, some having localized effects while others are statewide. A group of students from RPI took the city of Troy to task for a poorly administered property tax system. A study of prescription drug prices by SUNY Albany, RPl and Skidmore students has resulted in a NYPIRG lawsuit to declar-e unconstitutional a state regulation which 'effectively restricts price competition by pharmacists. According to a report written by a NYPIRG attorney, the N.Y. State Consumer Board has· virtually abdicated its responsibilities in consumet protection. As a result of the study,. NY PIRG's proposal for a new and more vital board has been introduced in the state legislature and will be considered during the upcoming term. NY PI RG's largest project thus far involved about 150 students working on profiles of every state legislator. A booklet on each assembly-person and senator was prepared to help New York residents understand the representative and the legislative process. Student involvement in NYPIRG ranges from volunteer research to spending an entire term as a staff person in one of the state offices. The legislative· internship program is unique in that it puts a student in the position of a public interest lobbyist ratherthan a clerk for a legislator. PIRG has successfully been involved in a multitude of other important reforms and now the N.Y. State.. office is giving Union College students the opportunity to set up its own fully operative branch. 'the major obstacle preventing the formation of our own ch~pter is that PIRG cannot operate unless it can acquire a financial base. In order to collect this money. two additional dollars per semester would be added to the student activities fee. This 'tax\ is optional; it will be refunded within the first 'few weeks after the commencement of a trimester, if a student requests. Interested students went before the Steering Com~ittee on Monday, Nov. I I to discuss the chances of forming our own PIRG and taxing the students for this purpose. They were informed that the matter would be tabled for two weeks and that student support would be needed bef<?re further plans would be considered. Petitions are therefore being circulated around campus and the approval of•every student is needed. For those who are sure they want to work for NYPIRG or who are curious about its operation, a meeting will be held on Nov. 20, in S.S.O 16 at 8:00. Donald Ross (one of the founders of the Citizen Action Group in Washington) will be the speaker. If your wish to help with petitioning, publicity, or you have any questions please contact the hall number 346-9292 and ask for PIRG. Rare Books Continued from Page I John Aigelow Papers, a diplomat's papers; the William James Stillman Collection, a study of art; and the Alexanderson Papers, which deal with the alternator that made trans-Atlantic radio possible, and inventions connected with the television. This later collection was contributed by Dr. Ernst F.W. Alexander who is still living today. The Lincoln Manacher Room has a good sized Union Collection comprised of numerous articles related to the college faculty, students, school laws, and societies. This college material dates back to Union's founding date and is an ongoing collection. The manuscript material consists of faculty and student diaries, faculty minutes and old letter books. During the period 1795-1908 the college kept bill books. These were records of the bills and finl!s each student paid throughout his coHege years. Beginning in 1'8 10, the collection includes scholastic records which k~pt track of each student's courses and grades. This entire collection was designed to serve the college students. However.~because of the nature of the material, the room is not open to browsers. Those who have a particular project are 'welcome to make use of the facility.

Page4 Continued from Page l the candidates record in his special interest and his extracurricular involvements that reflect the students true commitment to his interest. A . students overall academic record and ones array of campus activities are not that important a criterion in the selection process. ' ( ' t \ . I . \ ~ ? I ,_· :• : ; '; ' ' \ • \. I \ ~ \ ! ', ( ' ' CONCORDIENSJS, Wednesday; Nov; 13, 1974 New Program: T rausport Systems A few examples of the previous years winners of the Watson will give the prospective candidate an idea of the wide grab bag of interests. taken up. Victeria Haring of Swarthmore Cellege is presently studying the 13 smallest countries of the world ~ Lunqy, Sark, Atnb, Dubai, Malta, etc. Amy Gardner of Newcombe of Today's tnnsportation e{{pert needs to know far more t<hail how to build a higb.wa:y .. An unde .rstand ing of environmental, social and ener~:. v needs is just as vital to tile design . - of a transportation system as is · the knowledge of the Tulane is doing research into characteristics of bituminous burial practices of the Paleolithic concrett:. Age. Mark Polebamn is in For these reasons, says .Columbia and Venez~qela studying Assi~tant Prof. Ram Mittal, freedom and the press. Mary P. Union Coll~ge has instituted a Azevedo is in Britain and Wesiern unique new course ef study- the Eutope te examine multinational Transporta.tion Systems corporations. Union C!'1llege's Engineering Program. A member ~ winners last year were Ch~nles ·H. of the c<>llege's mechanical' Booth who is presently doiQg l!ngineering faculty, Dr. Mittal, .is photography in Fram;:e. Anne chaiFrnan of the. pn 0 grarn. Pebley was. to go to Japan and Mittfll, who terms the progFam Taiwan to study calligraphy but \one of the first of its kind;·'' says due to personal reasons she had it represents a comprehensive to fmfeit th.e Fellowship. approach to the problems that Union's designees this year again have thoughtful and interesting topics. Robert Cable · wants to go to Zaire to study its ' children and culture. Debbie Frank wants to go to England to trace the life of D.H. Lawrence. Jim Heiler wants to go to Europe to learn the art of v·iolin making, Jayne· Weiner wants to go to Taiwan to study·Tai Chi Chuan. beset transp<Jrtation today. \Years ago, no one qm!d about people's input,\ he explains. \Now you can't get a highway built without chizen involvement. And; when energy was cheap and seemingly unlimited, no one focused on the energy requirements of a system.'' Priorities have changed and with them,. the role of the engineer. legislative and fiscal constraints on transportation projects. Program participants however, need not be overwhehned by the political and economic realities of transporta~ion today. Another course, which wilt be ta~J.ght by Mittal next semester, offers a look at visions for the future. Such concepts as a personal rapid transit system, (PRT), and a demand -.response transportation system will be explore(! .. Th,e· program definitely emphasizes new trend's and priorities in transporhtio n, says Mittal, hut it d:oes not neglect such traditional courses as \traffic engineering,'; \theory of traffic flow,\ and \transp systems management.\ \For a long time, everything ·in transportation engineering was geated to building highways. We have to try to admit that bias,'' says Mittal. \But. now,\ he adds, ''the pendulum is going to the other side, toward mass transit. Look at the·\massive layoffs at Ford and General Motors - it could be a sign of what's happening to the automobile in our society:: Bob Cable, who received a Watson nominati<?n along with three other Union seniors. Union students will not be sub~it-ting their proposals again until next faU. But this program is so excellent all students ~hould think ahead and plan for a year away from the world, a year to discover anything you want. Through the Transportation Systems · Engineering Program, t:he engineer of tod~y and tomorrew <:an focus on such topics a:s \politics and transportation,\ \new concepts in urban tra:ns portation,\ -and \transper1ation and the environment.\ Alrhough the pro-gram is primarily designed to lead to a master of science· degree i-n engineering, - the program's courses are also open to Union College undergraduates. Just what will be the everall effect of this new program? En-ergetic Economics Discussed Cantinued from Page I Kenney ·points out that both the private utilities and the regulatory agencies make forecasts of future demands for electric power. \We want to critically analyze the forecasting techniques each uses and see if both are marching to the same drummer.\ \One alternative might be to have the state buy power plants and then everyone who pays taxes will foot the bill,\ Kenney explains. ''Another alternative could be to raise prices as high as they could possibly go. Then, the consumer would bear the cost burden but at least he- would be discouraged from using so much.\ \What would be a viable economic prescription for future policy?\ is another question the two Union professors will try to answer. Kenney and Kershner will be doing all the research themselves. · \Relatively speaking it is a small study,\ says Kenney, \but it is in an area that must be' explo'red.\ Kenney, 29, is a 1967 graduate . Prof James Kenney, recipient, along with Prof. Thomas Kershner, of a Rockefeller Foundation grant. -· of Wesleyan University and holds a doctorate in economics from Stanford University. Kershner, 32, is the chairman of the: economics department at Union. A specialist in East Asiirr economics, he is a graduate of Oakland University .with a .. doctorate from Harvard. --------...-....SPEAKERS November 15. Professor Howard is a specialist in Judicial Process and Public Law and is the author\ of several books and ~.trficles. On Thursday, November 21, 1974 at 3:30 p.m., Or. Gerald J. Hahn, Adjunct Professor at Union College will speak on \Some Things Engineers Should Know About Statistics - But Sometimes Don't.\ Dr. Hahn is the manager of the Statistics Program at G-eneral Electric Cor.pora.te Research and Development. The moral of the presentation is that more tl1ftn elementary textbook statistics is frequently needed to assure that the -right method is applied to the right problem. rhe presentation will be held in Room 310 1 Bailey Hall. \' * * * Dr. Gregory Sukharchuk, a leading member of the Russian Academy of Sciences, will be at Union Nov. 18th and ll)th .• Dr. Sukharchuk is a China specialist who- has spent seven of the last 25 years living and_ working in the PRC. He will speak on the topic \China's Economic Developmen1: The View From Moscow\. Dr. Sukharcliuk will also talk informally in the Social Sciences faculty lounge on Monday from 4 to S. Strauss Lounge, Carn~gie Hall, Tuesday Nov. 19th, .8:30 p.m. * \' * * Professor J. Woodford Howard, Chairman of the Political Science Department at Johns Hopkjns University, will speak at 9:30 a.m. in Humanities 114 G.-i1 .Friday, THE FILM COMMITTEE PRESENTS FIVE EASY PIECES starring Jack Nicholson Sat. at 8 and 1:0 , Sun. at 2:30 matinee 7, 9,.and U For example, in the \politics and transportation\ course, students are doing case studies of highway decision-making in Boston and New York City. They will also .s.tudy the institu tiona I Mittal believes that participants will be ''more pre;pared to help the community, to look into other modes of transportat~n and to listen to other people.'' BLOODMOBilE· 14 & 15 TWO KEGS TO BEST DORM TWO- KE·G~S: to BEST FRAT :_ \. - Additional Freebies IN THE GYM THlTRSDAY THE 14th tl to 5 FRIDAY THE 15th ~to 3

raints rever, y the ies of other lt by ~rs a JtUre. rapid r1d a :a tion it ely and says :glect taffic raffle ttion ing ·in was ;, We bias,\ •'the other 10k at I and be a o the n is to a :e in ram's Jnion verall ipants .'lpthe other nd to CONCORD!ENSIS, Wednesday, Nov. 13, 1974 Page5 Interview.-. Jero·me Cohen: The American Legal System. Then & Now by FRED WEINSTEIN Your biography is particularly interesting in t~at you served as law secretary in the · Supreme Court for one ;year under· Earl Warren and the following year under Felix Frankfurter. The philosophies of these men were radically different and I -wonder - how clid if affect your personal philosophy? Well, one problem was that even though I went tQ Yale Law School, where judicial activism was preached, the fact is that l somehow, at that point, was more responsive to Frankfurter's views that Warren's. In part, it was the mark that Frankfurter made on people. That, in part, reflected his personality, his geneality; his former teacher's interest in students; pavt, his brilHance, his hvelin~ss, his \liarren or Frankfurter wiser on issues. lhey agreed on a great many issues but on ~orne they did not. So one shouldn't exaggerate the difference. The difference was in part a question of style, a question of background. Supreme cour,t justices are kind of nonpareils in a· way. Each comes from a kind oJ autochthonous bit of Americana. Each is very different. They agreed on many things but 4 uestions of personality ate also very important. I once asked a man who had served under Warren during the :first two years of his tenure, how he aq::ounted for the fact that Justice B·lack after two years seemed to be exercisin,g greater influence on Warren than Frankfurter had, and he said, .. FeliK irritates, Hugo soothes.\ Frankfurter was a preacher. My office was next to the 1~he Supreme Court has always been political .•.. Truman's appointments were often poker playing friends of the president. incandescent personality. But· part was also the philosophy of constraint, reluctance to intervene, except on selected occasions in the political process; historical awareness of things like the Dred Scott decision, where the court re~dly believed they could solve the slavery problem once and for all, judicially to the court's detriment. lt took the court sometime to recover its reputation. Warren was a wonderful man in many ways; a man who had come from the political process. He felt rather insecure in the court. He would have made a fine president. He was liberal, dynamic, sophisticated about politics, progressive. He was uncomfortable at the court. tJ ltimately, I think he will be recognized as a great figure as he now is in American jurisprudence, not for sophisticated legal qtialities that are most calculated to appeal to a recent graduate of a high powered law school but for a man who sensed the tt::mper of the country, who had strong moral feelings, as well as political feelings, arid who in relatively. simple terms was able to articulate them after exercising his influence on the court. It will be a rlice question whether the dominant view of historians will consider conference room where the court met, and occasionally Frankfurter would be shouting at his colleagues and hitting the table and you· couldn't miss it, eve.n through a heavy oak door. Well, you know you can't get away with that with men of stature on the Supreme Court very often. It was a fascinating combination of experiences to serve under, as you correctly perceived, two very different people. What are your feelirigs on Nixon's politicization of the Supreme Court 1n recent years? Well, Nixon's most political appointees - political in the· sense of least qualified professionally, did not make it, and one, Carswell was a great mistake. I don't think Haynesworth was particulary unfortunate. He got caught in a certain string of events. But the court has always been political. The question is a question of balance. Certainly, the court was political prior lo FOR and he tried to correct it, politicize it you might say, although 'the court packing plan failed. Harry Truman, in a way, did very great damage to the court. Although I'm an admirer of Truman <\S a character, his appointments to the Supreme Court were among his least distinguished acts - the appointments of Fred Vinson, Harold The University Concert Board of SUNY A presents: FRIDAY, NOVEMB.ER 15 LARRY ~ORYELL BUd THE ELEVENTH HOUSE with spectal guest Miehael Urbaniak Two:sbows- 7:3npm& 10:30pm in the Campus Cente~ Ballroom TICKETS: $4.00 SAT\!RDAY, NOV.EMBER 16 The legendary PRESERVATION H'ALL JAZZ BAN·u Traditional Dixieland Jazz, direct from New Orleans also featuring RAGTIME PIANO PLAYING BY DILL JONES 8pm. in Campus Center Ballroom Tickets for both shows on sale Thurs. and Fri. 10 a.m.-3:30 p.m. in the college center gameroom and at the door.. TICKETS:· $5.00 SUNDA-Y,\ NOYEMBER 24 THE 'KIN.KS THE PALACE THEATRE 8 PM Tickets available beginning Nov. 1$th in the C.C. ganieroom and at the Palace. TICKETS: $5.00 . • - :{,.. • ·- w . .. .• ~ • ·\\\ ~ .. ... .. Burton, Tom Clarke, Sherman Minton. These were, some of them, very nice people but not of high quality. Although they did represent d-ifferent points of view they were often poker playing friends of the president. We often .say a judge is a lawyer who knows a governor. This is a problem with our system. On the one hand we want our judges to be political', so that they are sensitive to the political and social problems of the country. If they are not political there could he a lot of damage - they could be either so forward or backward. So you want peop,le with sensitive political antennae coming from a aossection of the political spectrum. On ·the other hand, if they are too political, they don't meet the needs of the legal system. From your vantage point as professor of law of Har'vard, could you comment on .any change of attitude on the part of law students in the face of the tremendous competition that now exists to gain admission to law school. Well, first of all I'm very much aware of· the tremendous competition to get into law school because the principal problem of our otherwise flourishing East Asian program at Harvard Law School is the restriction placed upon the inflow of able students. We get marvelous applicants, some of them know Chinese, some .of them Japanese, Indonesian, Kor~an, etc. and they have very good records and yet, most of ·them are tu-rned away because of, law students; the fact is in the late sixties more students were socially oriented. Now a lot of that derived from their own concerns about the draft and Vietnam War, but a lot of it was a social idealism that now has at least gone below the surface. It's mote tempered. I think it's there but it's latent, it's not overt any more. Hut it's always been a question of numbers. Law school has always been dominated by the professionals, some might say tbe plumbers, but it's a question of influence on t,he whole atmosphere of maybe lO to 20Ci( of the whole group and that percentage has whithered, I think, of explicitly public conerned people but they 1 re still there. We never had high numbers g() into criminal practice or human rights defense. Statistics have always been that these people start with law firms to a large extent. But I think under the surface that is still there. There is a preoccupation with success, not just money, but with .professional craftsmanship ~nd it goes in with this whole trend in undergraduate life toward introspection, not trying to change the world, not trying to act through groups, but trying to work through your own problems, make it in terms of your· own inner world. But below the surface I think law teachers have to be more explicitly value oriented. I think they have to be moFe preachers now. It used to be unsQphisticated to tr· to give law students ideals. I think we have to be more con~~ious of our role as la:w reformers. So Law teachers have .to be more explicitly value oriented. I think they bave to be more preachers now. sunply, the compettuon, questions of fairness. You know, in the absence of other criteria how do you select among a group? So I'm very·much concerned about this, I have a struggle with our admission committee every year and try to give weight to other attainments other than the numbers that come from an undergraduate rec-ord, the recommendations, the numbers on the LSA T score. It's very difficult because we get such superb applicants. Second, the problem of the impact on we sl'louldn't oversell it, but there's a definite moodl·hange in law students. Part of it relates to the job market, the competition to get the few places -that are regarded as preeminent to start with but the fact is we still live in a talent hungry :-ociety and people who oper~te at the level of Union students and who will go into any number of decent law schools are going to find all kind of opportunities to be of service at one point or another. in II! 11 PM to 8 AM daily. Call anywhere in the country for 35¢ or less or anywhere in New York State for 25¢ or less . . Each additional minute costs, 20¢ or less. These rates apply to station-to-station calls you dial your- self, to anywhere in the U.S. except Alaska & Hawaii. Tax not included. @ NewYorkTelephorie

-- , . . , Page6 CONCOR.DIBNSlS; 'Whdnesday, Nov. 13, 1974 tbe • ~- > i : • 0 • ' • ' > ' ' ' \ '' > \- ~ ' ' • < : j '' • I • Mountebanks presents: Frosh Play Great Success by JULIA SMAGORINSKY Ah, the vacuous, nebulous days of the second half of Fall term. It ought to be Winter by now but Mother Nature keeps fooling us with warm C\''' aiid as soon as we believe that Winter is not right here and go to the library without a coat, the temperature drops so fast the thermometer falls off the wall. One day is so m'uch like another. One Concordiensis is so much like another and those endlessly-announced meetings are so rriuch like another. Except this one. It might just be that you feel this campus to be the slightest bit restricting sometimes. Perhaps you feel as if a little communication with other schools, other people, would be healthy. How right you are. And \ - ~ t ALL IN THE t t FAMILY • t 123 JAY ST. t t, Kitchen Open t. 11:30 A.M.-10 P.M. Bud on Draft t' tl 346-9635 I The Union College Mountebanks' second annual freshman play ''Yo1,1 Can't Take It With You\ is an assorted mix of dramatic delights wrapped in a tight package of imaginative and thoraugh production. Set in ,the heme of Martin Vanderhof just amund the· corner from Columbia University, the three-act play embodies the mood of the nineteen-thirties in its performances, costumes, background music, and colorfully cluttered set, right down to the ever-humming electric fan in the window. Barry Smith, the directo_r, has brought together and developed a cast of players ranging from ~he how fortunate you are; the means for this communication will soon be a:t hand and how. There is a place in Albany called the Eighth Step Coffeehouse. A sampling from their schedule for a month includes mainstage performers of all types, \rap\ nights for informal talks, bridge and ping- pong. movie nights,. dance nights and open 11ights, where a)lyone can get up on the stage and perform. Th~_l;igjlth Step has exchanged talent with every coffeehouse in this area; RPl, Russell Sage, SUNY and St. Rose, but not with U nio11. This exchange is well worth becoming part of. The Eighth Step is an effective bridge between tile scho·ols and the community. Ever heard of the Port of Albany? It is a place where ships from aU over the world pull in. The Port of Albany project, managed by the wife of Professor Barry Smith, is currently involved in seeing. tnat visiting sailors have transportation to the town and are given to.urs, general hospitality and a helping nand during their stay. The possibility exists for an exchange of talent between the ships and the Eighth Step. If any ()f this grabs you, then e:::::::::;;:;:...:~ come to the meeting on Monday, 1 N ovem her 25 between the dA ~· impresarios of the Eighth Step · · -J '. and the Program Committee of t! ~'-\! ES'' .~ -=-~-~- the Union College Cabaret to . .. , .. ,,~ . ~!.1 discuss the possibilities for '4'\\' coooperati~n. Pizzeria · 721 ALTAMONT AVE. NO DELIVERY CHARGE WITH TWO PIZZAS W&MLI¥Eil UN11L MIDNIGHT' Cab374-S'M ·-- ..-.. ..... - -- . .- - .- -- -- ..-~~-~~-~--:---~~ J FOR LIQUOR ~-- AND WINE < J Try ~ ~ < ·~ k.Jce ~ 4~ ~ ~~ Lipstein's ~~ ~. ~State Street ~~ ~l-- FR4·1881 -~ .,. SHOP ON JAY STREET For Yol,lr Mind Body Soul THE OPEN DOOR BOOK SHOP THE COUNTRY KITCHEN THE OTHER SIDE OF .TODAY 135, 13tt, 137 Jay Street Open Tues,-Sats. extensively experienced to students who had never acted previously. Gary Ha:ber is one such newcomer, but his portrayal of Grandpa Vanderhof is one of such depth and sensitivity that obvio1,1sly he has a great career ahead with the Mounties. At the opposite end of the experience spectrum is Margaret-Ann Maloney &s the en.ergetic Essie, whose ten years of ballet training pt•events her, try as she might, from convincing the audience that as a dancer she .. shtinks\. Sheryl Holland, not a freshman but a junior transfer st-udent, brings a mysteriously gracious quality to the difficult role of Alice,. the basically c.ommonplace romantic lead. Similarly, Bob Dickerman overcomes his banal lines in a forcefUl portrayal of Tony, Alice's sweetie, although some of those romantic scenes are simply not to be believed. (I'd follow you to the ends of the earth?) During one part: ular scene involving primarily Tony and his father, Mr. Kirby, played by Bill Pike, Saturday night's discourteous audience was moved enough to finally quit making noise and pay attention. The scene dealt with a subject which has been done and overdone endlessly since the play was written in the thirties: that of the young man leaving the business world to follow his star. Already having established himself as a fine creative actor by this point in the play, Bill Pike stands out particularly here, refusing to give in to the familiar stale portrayal of the Big Businessman. He and Bob Dickerman create a sense of tension and struggle that makes this delicate scene one of the best in the play. Susan Finkelstein, spirited and spontane'ous as Penny, and Christopher Chalifoux as her 'husband Paul, are :endearingly cut off from the roots ofba:sic reality. Jack Stein as Ed the Xylophone .Player couldn't be better, and , incidently may be the next Fred photo by Muk Slmitkin Thefreshman play, You Can'~t Take It- With You, will be playing Nov. 13·16. Astaire. His dancing duet with Essie, though brief, is unforgeta,ble. Rheba and Donald, played by Elaine Baldwin and Ed Adams, offset the Vanderhof clan nicely, as do Dan Rosebaum and Dean Cholakis as De Pinna and Kolenkhov. Sarah Duffus charges through like blue lightning as Gay, the irrepressible sot. • Michelle Mesticelli plays the part of Olga fitting the thirties- stereotype of the defunct Russian Countess. The Three Men, played by Mark Anagnostopolous, Barry Eaglefeld, and Jon Clark, were effectively sinister. Linda Peck as PETER PAUSE .REST-AURANT ;~'Student Discount' Mon.-Sat. 5:30· 7:30 535 NOTT ST. Mrs. Kirby is restrainedly aristocratic, ye.t imparts an underlying sympathetic quality that prevents the character from being two-dimensional. YCTI WY is worth seeing twice for many reasons, and one of the best is Roger Summerhayes in the .part <>f Henderson, the nauseating IRS man. His performance defies description- iLhas'to be seen to be appreciated. There's an overwhelming inundatiQn with \messages\ here, but if you want to ignore thern that's all right, because YCTIWY is on.e of those plays that you can take any way you like. LUKE·'s·· Super Mar.ket Or~n 7 I la~' a- Wet:.~ . 34()-9757 - &~a l~tern Avenue FASHI81 DESIGNERS FABRICS . . ORIGIN·ALLY CR-EATED FOR GREAT,NAMES IN- THE FASHION WORLD· - ·oN SALE AT PRICES LOWER THill WHOLESALE NO·W IS T:HE TIME • · •.• t~ select your fabrics for Holiday wear. for your· self or for ·an elegant Christmas gift. We have a large tJssortment of fabrics for casucd, sport or eveRing wear. BE READY FOR THE.f.IEW'YEAR . .. . Mill ends, samples and regular piece goods are available in a wide variety of patterns and colors that willbe featuredin.'.'FASHIONS for '75.\ Remember;! You cann'ot buy our fabrics in any retail store. We manufacture onl.y for .internation• ally known d~signers. · GLOVERSVILLE CONTI.NENT AI. MILLS, Inc. FAB·RICS OUTLET STORE 181 So· ·Main St •• Glov~rsvllle 725..0621. Ext. 47 H;urs: Mon.-Thurs. 10 a.m.-4p.n.., Friday 1-'1 p.m. NOW OPEN SATURDAYS,10A.M. • 2 P.M. ItO% J)~SCOUNT to students With t.D.] - c c n q a p F



I . ·. ~ ., .. : .•. ':_ .. '; ~ I : '.) pi\i : 't~ : I ~ ,- . . ' ' . ' ' . ·.· ,, : . ' 1; I 'I: ' Page8 LUIGI'S RESTAURANT ~ . SPECIALIZING IN Italian - American Food ·1125 BARRm ST.· SCHENECTADY 016-.9744 \' ·E;njoy Sizzling S~et~lcs oJU! Chop:r Yilt Our CocktiJII Blu ' \' ... YOUJU5r MADE THE DEAN'S USI. THE WRONC ONE. · MAYBE WHAT YOU NEED IS A MAXIMUS SUPER~ Maxunus Super Beet. F. )( Mall Srcw~ng Co. Utica, N.Y. CONCORDIENSJS, Wednesday, N9v. 13, 1974 UBU An Open Letter to C. Owen Biggs III '~9 Dear M r: Biggs, Your letter 'of N ovemher 6 ca us ed c on s i d e r a h I e consternation in all reaches of the ~ampus community. As Culture Editor of this newspaper 1 felt it my duty to locate the source of these unfortunate disturbances. After devoting some waking hours and many sleeping hours to the problem, I discovered that the persons responsible for the disturbance are students. In particular they are students involved with the Cabaret and are rehearsing a play called \UBU\ for performance in the Cabaret of November 21, 22 and 23rd. The rumor that these pe rs()-ns are really students suffering from Cumulative Consumption who have been allowed to work it off in the Cabaret room is unfounded. In conclusion, Mr. Biggs, I must say ·that I find· no harm in Cabaret theatre. Truth to tell, I am curious as to what a man of your station_ could have been doing in the Student Center at such a late hour. Ever watchful, Pete Sobol. PhD, D.O.A .. AM & FM ~·············~···············~·········· •• We make them right. With whole fresh onions, sliced and dipped in batter. They come out crispy, golden, delicious. So if it's a class ring you want, come to Jack-in-the-Box. .. Erie Blvd. & liberty • ········································~

Page 8 LUIGI'S RESTAURANT SPECIALIZING IN Italian - American Food '1125 BARRETT ST. SCHENECTADY 016-9744 , Enjoy Sizzling SteQks and Chops Vi/it Our CockrJ,u Bllr . . YOU JUST MADE THE DEAN•s LIST. THE WRONC ONE. MAYBE WHAT YOU NEED 05 A MOINUS SUPER. p..jclJ ,..,us ~u1.ct Bc{•t F X Ma11 8'(!W•nf.J Co. UI•Ctl NY CONCORDIENS/S, Wednesday, Nov. 13, 1974 An Open Letter to C~ Owen Biggs III ~29 Dear Mr. Biggs. 1 our ktter of \ovember 6 ~·au>.ed ..:on,iderahle L'onsternatJon m a II reaches of the ~:am pu>. communit\'. :\~ Culture Lditor ol th1\ lll'\\~papc1 J kit 1t m\ duty to locate the sourc~ of the\e untnrtunate disturbances. \Iter de\otmg '-ome \\akin).! hour~ amJ man~ ~ke pmg twur-. 111 tilL' rm•hll'rn. I di,C<'\t'fl'd that thl' rcrsons resronsih!e tor the d I>.turhance arc ~tudents. In particular they are ... tudents Involwd wtth the ( ·ahan:t .; m.l an: rehc<~r,ing :1 pia\ called \!'IH\ lur rcrfnrmance Ill the Cabaret ol '.o\emher 21. ::.2 ,111d :.:~rd. ! he rum,H that : iH.''>L' rcr~on.., .~re rl',dl\ ,tlltknh ,uttering trom Cumulati\c t·,m~umpllllll \\'1(1 have ho:cn ,t![o\\t:U to \\or!\ It o t I Ill tht.: I ·:!h;tr<'! r .. om !' lin founded. In conclusion. \1r. H1gg~. I mu~t sa~ that l tmd no harm 111 Ca han:t theatre. I ruth to tell. l am curious as to\\ hat a man nf .1 our 'tation ..:oulJ ha\L' heen Liolllf! 111 the Stlltknt Center at \UCI1 a late hour. I \t.:r \\;Ih.:htui i'ett: \iohPI. J>hD. D.O ·\ .. \\1 & 1·\1 oow~:l!i Mi~ §~ Q~sh. (dow&OOW~) .WY\\ii\\V\~~II!i \\\\'~ I • We make them right. With whole fresh onions, sliced and dipped in batter. They come out crispy, golden, delicious. So if it's a class ring you want, come to Jack-in-the-Box. Erie Blvd. & Liberty &-• ,.. ••••• + • t't .. :& • .. ~ ...... ~

to a ~ ,' \ ~ ' { \i., , ',,'·' \ f \ -; •! • . ~ , :: \ ( . :, ~ r I CONCORDlENSlS, Wednesday, Nov. 13, 1974 Page9 Ca-blah-ret I be Cabaret made a slow recove·ry last wee·k from their Halloween cdl'!apse. But the State of the Art in last week's and aU forthcoming Caba-rets is in a rea) sense not any longer in the hands of the Cabaret crew but in the hands of its audience. The pmblern with finding talent is dealt with elsewhere in lhis issue, hut it ·must be remembered that the quality of a C a'baret performance is. a .r~flection of the campus as a whole, and to try putting credit or blame on a few select heads is passing the huck. Incidental music for last weeks' ~hows was provided by .a Feturn performance hy Dave Lederkramer on pian0 with Jane Mallet on flute, and by folksinger Cathy Dick, who has a heautifu;l voice indeed. Mainstage enterta.inmen t Cabaret Wants You consisted of a poetry r,ead:ing by Eric Foxma·n and a ceturn performance by mountain men Haun and Roberts. Foxman's cho,ice of poems was interesting. He · read from a collection ca:lled \The GallQws,\ which consisted of poems in a style similar to that of Ogden Nash. Foxmah may not have a beautiful voice, but he got u.p there and that's more than a lot of people have done. Robin Haun and Harry Roberts; down from the mountains. mentioned '',pic'kin' and gr.innin'\ three times and Roberts seemed to have had too much lunch. And passing that hat was bad form. p!wto by Jill Karostoff Cabaret: if anything serious goe~ on, it will be unintentional. So forget how tough life is in this world and take one and one-half hours off at the Cabaret. You know what is said about a.Il Work and no play. by TIMOTHY DOYLE If you are a student or faculty me.mber at Union College, w he titer you like it or .not, you 'are involved with the Union College Cabaret. · In the spring of last year, while still in the planning stages,. it was decided that the Cabaret would be founded on the concept that the students on this campus were greatly in need of an outlet of artistic expression that would continue on a regular basis. Thro.ugh this continually changing experimental space, it was hoped that a form of weekly, relaxed entertainment would thereby be provided foF the rest of the student body and faculty. The Cabaret is now the equivalent of one term old, a:nd is gradually establishing itself 0perationally. The kitchen is ex-panding almost weekly, the publicity department is regularly in(<>rtning the campus of the Cabaret Schedules, and the technical department improves ev~1y day. From these reports one would assume that \aU systems are go\ for the Cabaret and that it is almost certain tg be a success. Unfortunately, it is neither the kitchen, nor the publicity, nor even the technical aspects of the Cabaret that draw an audience. lt . ' - . - . is only when these departments are combined with the entertainment, be it incidenta.I or main stage, ·that crowds are drawn .and the Cabaret can be called a success. Therefore, the -entertainment ·is the concern of every(JQe associated· with the Cabatet, apd should be the concern. of everyone who enjoys frequenting the Cabaret. . Cabaret are strictly experimental spaces. They are by no means restricted by any confining definitions as to what is and what isn•t €abaret rriateriat All we want is something that other people will find entertaining to watch, listen to,- or even. participate in. We then merely decide as to whether this particular performance demands taking total focus of the audience, or whether it is more comfortable · in the background - both· of · which are of equal importance. Of course we have standards, but it must be made known that we are open to any and aU suggestions, t•hrough our open auditions. Secondly, it is necessary that the Cabaret does not consider itself as being separate from the campus and serving the cam)ms to the point of bringing in an talent from off the campus. It is an experimental space to be used by the students anq faculty first, and any outside talent is brought in as an impetus to the students to perform themselves if they so desire .. So it is for these reasons that we ask the students and faculty of this campus to be not y.ui te so secretive and · se If ish with their talents (and no one helieves that there just isn't any ta-lent). . Don't be shy - come every Sunday at 4:00 p.qt.!!! TYPING Reasonable Rates Fast Service 393-2233 ,------ ..... -, t l'HE FILM t t COMMITTEE t Haun and Roberts sounded like they sounded last time. Haun Elf Foxman, reader ofpoerry par excellance. Howie Grossberg, who Was to ·play piano to a silent movie-. was umtble to perform, and that is a real shame. A word about this Thursday's THURSDAY EVENING'S C;\.BARET . P-rogram I 9:00~10:30 Les Goldstein ~Incidental guitarist Dave Gordon - Death-defying juggler Pete Sobol• Lenox Road throwback Program_II 11:00-12:30 Same as program I The Cabaret occupancy is 75 persons. Come early make the first show if you can. CAREERS IN COMPUTER SALES Tuesday, November 19 8 p.m. Hale House Lower Lounge Two Union '74 grads will be guest speakers. Juniors/Seniors Earn Over $500 Per Month NUCLEAR POWER OPPORTUNITY If you qualify, you could earn o-ver .$500 .per month during your se~ior year with guatanteed Nuclear P()wer Training. Be a Commissioned Officer and work in the Nudear field, Starting salary is over $11,000 per year with rapid advancement to over $18,000 per year. Excellent fringe benefits, and continuing education. Prerequisites: one year of college physics, math through int~gral calcu,lus. ln:keeping with our All Voluntary Foice Concept, you incur no obligation. See Your NAVY INFORMATION TEAM There is nothing particularly complex. about tQ:is 'teasoning; however, one· must ask oneself why it is tha·t when auditions are- held every Sunday at 4:00 p.m. the corridor .is\~fupty. Particularly when the Gabatet was formed with the purpose . of aHowing students to I:elease any· anxieties and frustrations that undiluted academia can create. The only. explanation of the lack of auditioners is that· perhaps the ' campus does not understand what we're looking for. First of all, it is extremely important that it be made clear that the stages in the ' t· ' PRESENTs·· on campu~ . . N ovembef19•:zo· at lfale I:IQuse ·Lol)by ..•.. ··.·~· • . . DaYe's Mens Sbop o453.Statest .. Co t t t BONNIE t t d. ' t an - t t CLYDE t t t :t Tue!i., :ov. 19 I I 8 and 10 t t SS016 ' t.;·-- ........... ---· ·' . ~ Please send me information on the Nuclear Power Program: . Name _______ .,...._ _ _.._......._-~_,.... Address_~---------- Phone·_. .. ..._ _ _,__._ ________ _ Grad Dat......., _______________ _ M~or ________ ~--~------------ Send to: . LT. Don Harbison Navy Information Team Albany, New York 12210 or call (518) .472-4424 collect . ~~- ·-·--------------------------------------------------~--------J r

29 to at a r. lltli ·\ .. 1·\1 !t u CONCORDIENSIS. Wednesday. Nov. 13. /974 Page 9 Cabaret Wants You by TIMOTHY DOYLE If you are a student or faculty member at linion College. whether you like it or not, you are involved with th.e UnioA College Cabaret. In the spring of last year. while >till in the planning stages, it was decided that the Cabaret would he founded on the concept that the ~tudents on this campus were greatly in need of an outlet of artistic expression that would continue on a regular basis. I hrough this continually .: hanging cxperime nta I -.pace. it v.a~ hoped that a form of v.cckly, relaxed entertainment \\ ould therehy he prO\ided lor the rest ol the student hody and !acuity. I he (·aha ret i' now the etjLIJValcnt nl ont· tt.:rm nld. and Is gradually l''tahlishing itself tlperationall:-. I he kitchen is expanding almost 1\eekly. the publicity department 1s regularly informing the campus of the Cabaret Schedules. and the technical department i mprows every day. !·rom these reports one would a~sume that \all systems are go\ tor the Cabaret and that it is almost certain to be a success. l nfortunately, it is neither the kit chen, nor the publicity, nor even the technical aspects of the (\aha ret that draw an audience. It '>is only when these departments are combined with the entertainment, be it incidental or main stage. that crowds are drawn and the Cabaret can be called a succ1:SS. Therefore, the entertainment is the concern of everyone associated with the Cabaret, and should be the concern of everyone who enjoys trequenting the Cabaret. I here is nothing particularly complex about this reasoning: however, one must ask oneself why it is that when auditions are held every Sunday at 4:00 p.m. the corridor is empty. Particularly when the Cabaret was formed with the purpose of allowing students to release any anxieties ond frustrations that undiluted academia can create. The only explanation of the lack of auditioners is that perhaps the campus does not understand what we're looking for. First of all. it is extremely important that it be made clear that the stages in the ·tevrs DaYe's Mens Slaop ~State St. ( 0 Cabaret are strictly experimental ~paces. They are by no means restricted by any confining definitions as to what is and what isn't Cabaret material. All we v.a nt is something that other people will find entertaining to \\atch. listen to, or even participate in. We then merely decide as to whether this particular performance demands taking total focus of the audience, or whether it is more comfortable m the background hoth of \\hich ~tre Llf equal importance. Of cour~c v..e ha\ e \tanda rds. hut It mw .. t ht.: madt.: kno\\n that \\Care open to any and all wggt.:~tion,, through our open a ud itiom. Secondly. it 1' neu?-. .. an that the ( ·aharct doc-. not Clllhltkr 1hc If a' hci ng ..;epa rate I rom the campw. and senm~ the canipu~ to the point of hringing 111 .1ll talent I rom ott the campu:-.. It 1s an experimental ;.pace to he used h:. the students and faculty first. and an;. outside talent is brought 1n as an impetus to I he s tudenb tn perform themselves if they so dc:-.ire. So it is for these reasons that we ask the students and !acuity of this campus to be not quite so 'ecret ive and selfish \\ ith their talents (and no one believes that there just isn't any talent). Don't be shy - come every Sunday at 4:00p.m.!!! TYPING Reasonable Rates Fast Service 393-2233 ,--------, THE FILM COMMITTEE PRESENTS BONNIE and CLYDE Tues., Nov. 19 at 8 and 10 SSOI6 t t t t t t t t t t t t ·--------~ Ca-blah-ret ' I ' ',1 II .I; i· \'. ,. ' :; \ : I I'., II '. . . 'I I the· \:I ll 1 .1': '.\ ., > ' • · ·· 1 ,:1 lllJIIJl,lllllll.t: l.ih.nc·b ;' .:1 .t 1,.11 'l\ll~l\ not an;. lnll!!'\' 111 the· h.J nd ... of the Cabaret crt:\\ hut 111 the hand~ of ih audictll:c. !he prohh:m w1th tindmg talent ~..., Jca It with elsewhere in t hi~ i,:-.uc. hut it must be remembered that the quality of a Caharct performance i~ a reflection ot the campus a~ a whole. and to try putting cn.:Jit or hlame on a lev.. ,elect heads is passing the huck. Incidental mmic lor last weeb' ,how> was provided hy a return performance hy l>a1e l.ederkramcr on p1ano \\ith .Jane \1alkr on tltl!e, and h;. lolk,lllger Cathy Dick. \\ ho has a hcautllul \ OICe inJet:d. \1aimtage entertainment consisted of a poetry reading. h~ !·ric Foxman and a return performance hy mountain men Haun and Roberts. l·oxman's choice of poems was interesting. He read from a collection called \The (iallows.\ which consisted of poems in a ~tyle similar to that of Ogden :\ash. Foxman may not have a heautiful voice. but he got up there and that's more than a lot of people have don(!. Haun and Roberts sounded like they sounded last time. Haun 1:7( Foxman. reader of poetrr pur excel/ance. Robin Haun and Harry Rohens: dmt·n jrom the mountains. mentioned \pickin' and grinnin'\ photo by Jill Karostoff three times and Ro herts seemed to have had too much lunch. And passing that hat was had torm. Howie Grossberg. who v.as to play piano to a silent movie. v.as unable to perform. and that is a real shame. ;\ word about this I hur~day\ Cabaret: if anything senous goe, on. it will he unintentional. So 1org.el how tough life is in this \lorld and take one and one-half lwu n off at the Caharct. You hno-w ·what is said about all 'v\ork and no play. THURSDAY EVENING'S CABARET Program I 9:00-10:30 Les Goldstein - Incidental guitarist Dave Gordon - Death-defying juggler Pete Sobol - Lenox Road tllrow back Program II 11:00-12:30 Same as program I earl~ 7,..-~~/~....-r ,..r,.,..-....,.._..,.~~.-'.,...,-.-r~~,.;..-,.,-~_.r,.,;:::er,.--.-0'..-Y,..r..,r,-'\ ..,r,.......,-,_.......,.., I ' CAREERS IN COMPUTER SAlES Tuesday, November: 19 8 p.m. Hale House Lower Lounge Two Union '74 f(rads will be guest spe(lkers. Juniors/ Seniors Earn Over $500 Per Month NUCLEAR POWER OPPORTUNITY If you qualify, yau could earn over $500 per month during your senior year with guaranteed Nuclear Power Training. Be a Commissioned Offi~er and work in the Nuclear field. Starting salary is over $11,000 per year with rapid advancement to over $18,000 per year. Excellent fringe benefits, and continuing education. Prerequisites: one year of college physics, math through inte~ral calculus. In keeping with our All Voluntary Force Concept, you incur no obligation. See Your NAVY INFORMATION TEAM on campus November·t9-20 at Hale House Lobby Please send me information on the Nuclear Power Program: ~arne -------------- Address------------- Phone-------------- Grad Dat ___________ _ Major------------- Senll to: LT. Don Harbison Navy Information Team Albany, New York 12210 or call ( 518) 4 72-4424 colle~t.

. ' .. . I . ' I' . '1:' I '• I. : I ,. l ,, :1, Page 10 CONCORDIENSIS, W\.ednesday Nov. 13, 1974 BLITHER \Bringing Up- Baby,\ Hollywood's classic example of ·the screwball comedy, will be shown free at the central library, Liberty and Clinton Street(' at 7:30 p.m. on Nov, 20 in ,the Meeting Room. The Wingate Branch Library, 2558 Guilderland Ave. will have a free showing of \Audubon \Coral Jungle\ and \Cape Breton Island\ at the same time. On Nov. 27, the centrai library will have a free showing of \Zorba the Greek\ at 7:30 in the Meeting Room. · * * * * There will be an important organizational meeting of the Ski Club and ski. team enthusiasts on Thurs., Nov. 21 at Alpha Delta Phi in the living room at 8:00 (A.~. Phi is located across Library Lane from the Infirmary). * * * * Blood Drive at the Student Center (Carnegie Hall) · Thursday and Friday. * * * * The Idol Workshop meets every Tuesday at 7:00 in Strauss Lounge. All writers of poetry and fiction are invited to bring · their work for discussion by the group. * * * * The Idol Magazine wants submissions. We will publish an issue as soon as we have enou,gh worthy material. Submit your original poetry and fiction to the Idol Mailbox in the Student Activities Office. * * * * ATTENTION ENGLlSH MAJORS: Are you depressed by the possibility of being an unemployed college graduate? Come to a meeting Thursday, Nov. 14 for English Majors with Susanna Miller in HU 114 at 4:30. Mrs. Miller directs the Placement Office and will be trying to sugges:t methods by which you can make yourself more employable . * * * * WEDNESDAY, NOVEMBER 20, at 8:00 in SS016 there will be a meeting of PIRG, the Public Interest Research Groups, which is headed by Ralph Nader. Don Ross will speak at the meeting. * * * * \Meet the Professor\: Smith House invites everyone to an informal, open-ended discussion with Professor Bill Daniels at Smith House, Tuesday, November 19, at 7 p.m. Wine and crackers will be·served~ * * * * Any professor interested in having the Film Committee sponsor a film, relevant to a course being taught winter term, should contact a member of the Film Committee. * * * * UBU-RATED X will be performed at the Cabaret (room 108, Student Center) on Thursday, November 21, at the regular Cabaret times, and additional performances will be presented in the Cabaret room on Fnday, Nov. 22 and Saturday, Nov. 23 at 8:00p.m. * * * * PYE (Protect Your Environment) Club meeting, Thursday, Nov. 13 at 7:30 in Strauss Lounge. Discussion will include proposed projects in conjunction with the' Schenectady County Planning Department and newspaper recycling. * * * * The first tournament of the Table Tennis Club will begin next week. the week of the 18th. If you are interested, sign up in the Student Activities Office by Friday, Nov. 15. * * * * A HARVARD MBA? Discuss the Master in Business Administration Program with ail Admissions Represent.ative from the Harvard Business School Tuesday, 19 November OFFICE OF CAREER PLACEMENT No courses or areas of concentration are required for admission. Newest Lunch 115 ALBANY ST. The oldest lunch In the area. More than 50 years we ser\'e First , Prize hot dogs with the original famous sauce. Also different special dinners everyday. We are open 7 days a week - weekend till 4. Visit Newest ·Lunch. Good , olaee to E.t. . . . pRIMEWAY INNS ~Bozo on Bricl.ge . ,Prof·essors' G,am~e Jim Baker and Mitch Weisburg and Lance Jacobson. and ,Lester Fein tuck. The ·b attfe ·for supremacy in the North-South group saw Howie_ Goodman and Jordan Spivak • placing first, Sar-ah White and Sue Lee seconcf, and the Bozos squecl'king out third by half-point. by .JOliN DESROCHERS ~nd SLEEZE Nort~ s ·~ Bidding: ·west East S A/2 S KQ63 H 553 D Kl03 c 99762 H KJS6 D AJ.864 CQI'08 Soutlt s J•l()954 H AQl042 D 'VOid H 97 DQ9754 C KJ3 S W N E lh p . 3h p 4h All Pass Opening Lead: King o( Spades . ln this week's hand, ''The Professors\ show how it's d·one, humiliating the Bozos in .a bealltifu:J four-heart contract. \The .Professot.s'' ~rl\! pictured here as North~South, with..South the declarer. H seems pretty straigl1tforward to make four hearts he,re. After the King holds lhe first trick, East switch~s to a low club Which declarer wins wifh the ace . Decla·rer then hegins by d-rawing trump. He mffs a -spade in dummy and cashes the Ad while throwing off a club. A trumped diamond gets him back to his hand to execute another .spade ruff. Returning to his hand with another diamond ruff, (ieclarer 'loses another spade to West's 4 ueen, thereby settin§ up his last spade and clinching the game• going trick. Not bad, but .. The Professors\ went one better. They realized that this was one of the times when declarer shouldn't draw trump. After winning the return with the Ace at trick two, 'declarer led a spade which he ruffed low in dummy. He then cashed the Ad. throwing off a club and followed with another diamond to be ruffed in his hand. He then proceeded to cross ruff his spades in dummy and diamonds in his hand; thereby making nine trump tricks, plus his two aces, for a well deserved fi've hearts. C A54 Professors 'Ci:o()dheart and Bacon remained t·he team to beat as they .swamped their opponents at the largest Brklge Club meeting in the last tw«> ye-ars. The twenty- :_ ' TYPI:NG Reasonable ltates Fast Servie:e 39J ... 22l3 l~•••••••••o••••;~ ~· There I$ a •. • d·t'e ·~\\\e \' • · • . I II ,..,,~..,. .... • . . .. . . • • • 0 I'REPARE FOR: 01011r 35 years • • Mc ··r :or ex[l<!rience • O '' ,all!d ILJCCBSS : • ·O/tJ\ vc.luminous home • 0 st'\\dV materials • • • 0 LSAT .Courses that are • : ftl , CCJOnsl .. ntly updated: 0 GRE .SrTJall classes : : ftr· G- -S- ··~- ~~~~~~a~~enler : 0 · · ell'enil)gs &. • 0 . . .·weekends e : oc··r Cc::lmptete tape • o ft · .la<:illlres for : . c~~r re-vieii'S of class 0 · · · I&~SOI'lS ·and lor use• • of supplementary • • FlEV'. m.ate11als • 0 . A.: ,M.akHIP! for. : • ·ECFM. m· ·missed le~sons • • at our Brooktyrt • 0 ·center • i NAT'L NEll BDS : • 'THOUSA.NI)S liAVE : RAISED THEIFfSCORES e Sranches In Me1ropolltan Area ==i:· !. II 11- • EDIJCATIOHAL CEfiiEI\l •. ~rD. • • • Luxu;y Appoirlted Rooff!.s • Affordable Rat~s •Color TV 1:616 STATE ST.R:EET . lntersectio11 Rts .. 5 &; 7 Next to Howard j~»hnsons Schenectady, l'l. t (SI8)376-3fHO eight participants had to be split up into two groups fo1;. the event. When the scores were taUied, \The Professors\ led the Way in the East-West group, followed by RESUMES THESIS TICKETS REPORTS INVITATIONS When yo~.~ need , art supplies, but you want to I be supplied rls;ihfaway ••• STAEDLER-MARS KOH-1-NOOR BEROL PRES TYPE THUMBNAIL SKETCH PAPER WHITEPRINTING · Why ·not come up and· play some hands like this one in Hale House Upper Lounge· next Tuesday at 7:45. Everyone is welcome. want something printed; but want It todcr( ... GRUMBACHER HYPLAR ACRYLICS OIL COLORS WATER COLORS OIL PASTELS SOFT PASTELS SKETCH Pt\DS- BRUSHES, etc. When you·~ have · dlaflluu AlfJPiesanct equipment• . . . bUt*\hc:IVedh:lav- take the GA F~ Print Express; 10% off ~n art and drafting supplies WHEN YOU ·STOP :1 N FOR YOUR FREE STUDENT DISCOUNT CARD You'll find us-at: 1474 State Street Schenectady, N.Y. 12305 (518) • 303·1328 -

t, ca t. \ is st 't a is CONCORDIENSIS, Wednesday, Nov. 13, 1974. Page 11 . ' ' - . . - ~ '• ' . - ' - ' :' . '·.. ' . . . . ~ - . . ' sports BLITHE.R You can give bloQd at the Student Center (Carnegie Hall-) on Thursday and Fr.iday this week. * * * * Political Science. Upperclass Majors: a P.S. pre- registration memo has been mailed to each of you. If you have not received it, please pick up a copy in the P,S. Office (SS2l6). * * * * Eugene O'Neill~s \lle\ Will be presented on Friqay, Nov. 22, at 4:30, 7:30 and 9, and on Saturday, Nev. 23 at 7:30 and 9 by the Experimental Theater at the State University of New York at Albany. Free tickets will be available one hour before each performance at. the PAC box office ( 457-8606). The performanceswiU be in the Arena Theater. * * * * Anyone interested in Transcendental Meditation is most welcome to attend one of the two remaining presentations this term: on Wednesday nights, Nov. 13 and Dec. 4 at 8:00 p.m. in Stl'al.ISS Lounge. * * * * Theta Pelta Chi presents a Max.irnus Super Drink-In Friday, Nov. 15 at 9:00. Maximus will be sold for 25<~:/can. Posters will be given away, and T-shirts and pillo~s will be raffled. * * * * The Lone Ranger can be heard every Monday night at 9:00 on WRUC, 640 AM. * * * * Pincl;ias. Sapir, former finance minister of Israel and present head of the Jewish Agency will give a lecture on Immigration (Aliyah), this Thursday, Nov. 14 at SUNY Albany, beginning at 2:30 p.m. in ~he campus center assembly hall. The Schenectady JCC will sponsor a bus, which will stop at Union if 20 or more st·udents sign up. For information and reservations, contact Ben Rubin, I 16 Fox, 370-6456. * * * * In 1974-1975, there will be two distinct sections of Political Science designed priin~Uily for non-majors. In the Winter term, PS 10, with Prof. Nichols, will stress the scientific and objective modes of political thinking. The Spring PS 10, with Pr.of. Sharlet, will focus on the phenomenological ap.d subjective styles of political analysis. * * * * T~e third concert in the l~temational Festival of Chaflber Mus1c sponsored by Umon CoUege and Schenectady Museum will feature the London Virtuosi performing in Memorial Chapel on Monday, Nov. 18 at 8:30. Single tickets will be available at the door. * * * * Bridge Club meets Tuesday, November.l9 in Hale House upstairs Ionge at 7:45. * * * * If you are interested in Cable TV (which has a monthly charge of $5 for cable service and $2 for the converter), Ed Quinn, Sales Manager of Schenectady Cablevision, Inc. suggests that you•call him at 370-2525. * * * * Students planning to study abroad during the spring 1975 tenn must obtain approval of their study plans from the Study Abroa? . and' Foreign Students Committee. Information regarding, and application forms for studying abroad may be obtained from Nicholas Coward, Room 211, Humanities Building, Monday through Thursday during the hours from U:30-12:3D a.m. and 1:30-2:30 p.m. All applications in ust be complete,d no later than the end of the second week of the winter term. Levrs • DaYe'sl.\tens· Slaop· e3.Stale St.- . YOU WENT OUT ONA LIMB AND LOANED A FRIEND YOUR CAR. / THEN,HE WENT OUT ON A LIMB. MAYBE WHAT YOU NEED IS A MAJCIMUS SUPER. Max.mus SOper Be:er, F=, X. Man Brewing CQ 1 uuca, N. V. ' \ Cement· truck drops load; Rink construction underway. INDOOR TRACK C~ntinued from Page 12 team. Senior Dick Kern also returns and frosh Phil Stege.mann comes out to form a healthy hurdling crew. Perhaps the strongest section of this year's squad, as in past years, will be the middle distance area. Although Tim McCabe and Minner are .gone, many familiar faces and dependable names are back for another season joined by even more new prospects. Seniors Jeff Broomes, Fred Pressley, juniors Jim Boyer,' Paul Spe11ce and Jeff Luck, freshmen Wayne Hayward, Bill Auger and the aforementioned Dave Ricks and Mark Scheuer return, and there is the possibility of another season for senior Crawford Cutts. Freshman Bob Moffat, a I :57 half miler may be another asset once he sheds his cast. Moving up to milers who can be called' upon at a moments notice for a half mile one finds junior Steve Jones. Jonesie finished · eleventh in ~aturdays New York State Cross Country competition and holds the school record in the six mile. Roy Wandelmair, another cross country man in the fall is another convertible. Likewise, Stan Wiskoski, Bill Galerneau, Bill Fellows, John Hallenbeck, and Greg Meyer all make the move to indoor tartan from the big outdoors to round out the distance team. Senior and former state champion in the.triple jump, Pete Walwrath returns to claim honors in the long and triple jumps. This is perhaps the lone weak area on the 1975 squad. With the absence of John De Stefano, which will also be felt in the high jump. and the graduation of Brad Patterson, some serious gaps are left. Ladies on campus are back for a second year of intercollegiate competition. Letterwomen Susan Harp in the sprints and middle distances and Louise Dunn in the shot put bring their experience to head the female faction. Ski Team This winter the Sid Club shall be offering a pac-kage deal of ski trips to West Mountain as we have in past years, in deference to the earlier trips proposed to J iminy Peak. The reason for this switch is something that concerns aU of us, money. Trip package to West costs only $30 as opposed to $70 to J iminy. In addition their ski jump and a well lighted slope will be available to the Ski Team. However, we must have an organiz;ttional meeting. Without your appropriate response by attending the meeting there will be no ski club or ski team. There must be a sufficiently large number interested so .that at least one bus can be filled every night. This meeting is going to be THURSDAY NIGHT, 11/21/74 at ALPHA DELTA PHI fraternity house in the living room at 8:00 P'.M. Make sure YOU!! are there and bring anyone else that might be interested. Alpha Delta Phi is the big white house with pillars located across LlBRARY LANE from the infirmary (where all inept members spend winter tenn). As for the ski team, all wishing to participate must have physicals this. week at the infirmary for insurance reasons. Try to make it this week because it's a hassle getting one otherwise. THINK SNOW!!! SOCCER On the strength of their impressive 9-1 record, the Garnet varsity soccer team has earned the top-ranking in this year's Upstate ECAC tournament. Along with the honor of being top-ranked comes the privilege of hosting the tournament. Thus, the tournament will take place on Daley field this Friday and Saturday. Friday's first round action pits Cortland against St. Lawrence at 12:00 and Union vs Hamilton at 2:30. (Union defeated Hamilton 1-0 in a regular season encounter.) The final on Saturday will take place at I :00. Come out and cheer our team to victory in their first postseason tournament ever. TAKE COM:MAND OF YOUR FUT.URE The Opportunity to be a COMMISSIONED OFFICER is available to all qualified students,· The Navy is currently accepting applications for a variety of interesting and cballenging OFFICER positions for COLLEGE STUDENTS with different academic backgrotmds. YOU may have what it takes to qualify for: NUCLEAR POWER NAVAL AVIATION NAVY LINE OFFICER NAVY NURSE C()RPS SEE YOUR NAVY INFORMATION TbA.M ON CAMPUS Date: 19 & 20 Nov. Loeation: Hale Hollse Lobby or call 518 472-4424 today

., Page 12 CONCQRDIENSIS, Wednesday, Nov; 13, 1974 Ciarnet ojjense deploys jor a pass ptay. Playing The Fie'ld The term jock is often used in a derogatory fashion. Years ago {40's and 50's) the image of the jock was that of a bubble gum chewing football player who wouldn't have gotten into college if he wasn't so big or fast. When the Sixties rolled around students stopped swallowing gold fish and became aware of the human injustices oceuring abroad in Viet Nam and at home in the area of Civil Rights. In this new era of political consciousness the jock was oft.en seen as the short haired, perhaps red-necked, conservative who usually didn't possess either the brains or the sensitivity to fully understand the issues. Finally the Seventies arrived and with this decade we see students professing a new creed -- a creed of tolerance. Unfortunately many of the tolerant people don't seem to tolerate those who decide on a life style different from theirs. For example we find it odd that it is socially acceptable to. badger persons into ~·doing\ drugs or alcohol while one is not supposed to criticize an individual's use of either. - We are in no way trying to suggest that being a ••jock\ means clean living, but rather we desire to see this new tolerance applied to athletes in a non-hypocritical way. No group should be stigmatized. athletes included. The fact that athletics have withstood the test of time make it clear that sports have appealed to a broad spectrum of persons who were most probably concerned with different issues. Therefore instead of devising a jock image to classify certain persons give athletics a try. ·You may find that the only thing which makes a person a jock is that they simply enjoy stretching it out, or that there is a great deal of satisfaction to be had in giving your all and doing just a little better than your very best. THE EDITORS TRACK PREVI'EW by ALISON SLOAT If Coach Ken Michelson is as accurate this year in pegging team potential as in previous years, when he says, \We're tough,\ you can count on it. Depth only begins to describe this years indoor track squad. Experience .and skill add to the list of necessary adjectives. Last years outdoor state champion in the 100, Milt Herring returns to head the sprinting crew for the· Garnet thinclads, and freshman John 1-oehl wiil add new talents. Senior Dave Ricks, Union's record holder in the pole vault will be joined by veterans Bob Baribeau. Bill Thompson, and Bruce Bonanno as well as newcomer Ed Adams to compose possibly the largest pole vaulting entourage in the state. Providing his injured knee continues to heal, Ricks will also display his talents in the high jump and on the mile. relay team. Letterman D;;n~e Plumer is back to lead the high jumping faction. . Another possibility at this time is transfer Chris l'luban of soccet goalie fame. Sen-ior weigh tmen Bill Mowery and AI Gilewicz will be joined by several promising freshmen this year. Ed Kulik, Bill Grec0 and Mike Heavy add strength and just plain size, as well as skilL all having thrown the shot put in the 50' area in high school. Sophomore Mark Scheuer, having proven himself a super asset as a freshman, returns to c.ontinue flying over hurdles and to contribute to the mile relay Contirtl,u.!d on Page II GRIDDERS BOMBED never· routed, by M iddlebu(y but once again it was forced to play a majodty of the game. StandoUt efforts were turned in by linebaekers Greg Breedlove and Jack Dunn as well as by defensive back Carrn Gatta a:nd tackle Pe.ter Sherman. B.reediove, a senior by KEVIN CRAWFORD The Union grid(iers .spent another painful afternoon last Saturday out on Alexander Field falling to Middlebury Jf..,3. It was another frustrating game for the Union team as they spent an entire afternoon trying to hold on to shifty Panther back Tom O'Connor and an even more elusive football. The 140 yards and four touchdowns recorded by the record setting senior halfback, <;0n1bined with the 5 fumbles and 3 interceptions totaled by the Union offense, made for a decided and disheartening loss. -making his fi.nal home Middlebury was by no means spectacular but capitali~ed on Uni0n turnovers while making few themselves. Four Panther scores followed Union turnovers and three Garnet scoring opportunities were erased, two on fumbles and a third by an interception. The Dutchmen defense was Field Hockey Closes, ... ____ by KIPP & LYN_. .... _ ..... _ One month ago, Michelle de Lafayette lead off the scoring for the cUnion field hockey team as .they defeated the· Mohawk VaHey Association 1-0. Then on Novemet 3rd, on a penalty shot by Lyn Yelton, Union beat RPI 1.0 to close its season with a 3-3-1 record. During the weeks in between, the team rnet some . stiff opposition. The second game of the season, away at Russell Sage, became U Ilion's first loss 0-1; but the team rallied with a 1-0 v-ictory over RPl on homecoming weekend. Despite the bitter cold, numerous fans showed up to support and encourage the team. Late in the first half, halfback Allyne Price scored with an assist from Muffy Hart. For the remainder of the game, a strong defense managed to hold the turkettes scoreless. The following day, Union travelled to Cobleskill. Once again, the freezing weather slowed the team's scoring, as the game ended in a 0.;() tie. Mid-week saW Union meeting the infamous Skidies. In spite of our tremendous psyche and good team play, the Skidmore gals managed to squeak by 3-2. Perhaps ·this game can be considered the mo~t exciting of the season. Certainly our two goals added much to the game. During the first half, halfback Lyn Yelton flicked a quick shot past the goalie. Then, early in the second half, offensive wing Heather Rowe rushed in a goal to tie the game. Unfortunately; Skidmore also scored later that h~lf. To top off the game, Kipp Kelley's quick manipulation of feet and stick during a .fast break flustered the Skidmore defense, causing a goalie-fullback collision on the other team. After an aw~y game at Middlebury, which was quite a learning experien~e, Union made a valiant comeback In their last game of the season ~ away at RPI. Unfortunately, our l-0 victory does not do justice to the outstanding team work displayed there. Yet, if nothing more, this . final victory showed the talent and a·bility of next year's team. Since only two seniors played in this game, most of the playing was · done by returning team members. Although in all, there are five graduating seniors, offensive players ~ Sue Harp, Kipp Ke.lley, and Alison Sloat - and defensive player:s - Barb Burri and Lyn Yelton, ·the \lppearance, was ctedited with two interceptiotls and a host of tackles. Perhaps the .l;<.ey to this game, in addition to the turnovers, was the lack of any ground game once again. The net rushing total for Union was 17 yards, ~ 4 in the first half. In the passing department, Mark Broomfield was 8 for 22 for 205 yards. His targets were a pair of seniors, wingback Dave Kates and split end Lou Miller. Kates had four receptions for 122 yards while Miller added three catches totaling 66 yards. The only other excitement of the day was provided by a Mike Desc:hler kick-off return of 70 yards. With just the season finale remaining with Hamilton next Saturday in Clinton, N.Y., the team and coaching staff can only hope to salvage some sma.l! measure of satisfaction out of what can only be termed ?- dismal season. It's much harder to come back when your down but hopefully enough pride, confidence and desire Femain for an all out effort. against Hamilton. Often it's very important after you have been unsuccessful in something, no matter the reason, to prove to yourself that you have what it takes to get the job done. Good luck on Saturd~y. prospects for n~xt fall look strong. Halfbacks Perky Francis, Lynn Sutton and. Allyne Price will all be returning, along with fullbacks Toni Gahn and iulie Rothenstein. Louise Durin, a fine goalie, will also be returning, giving additional strength to an already strong defense. The offense will also-have a complete line returning ~ Heather Rowe, M uffy Hart; Ann Markowitz, Alene Fredane, and Michelle de Lafayette. The team appreciates all tlte support and enthusiasm shown throughout the season and hopes that its fans enjoyed watching the games, learned a. little from them, and will- continue to support women's athletics. • ( L

a by of he rs, lit a, I! of no to it od ulie ing, an de the the port \.. Con test to rewtit~ the school song lo. \the Brook - that b'ounds unde•r U.nioil's. g·r.ounds.\ J<'frst :p·r.ize:. · miniatur~ .gold-plated ·culfe.;t suit!lhldor holiling ~igars. ,/ The man who gives when asked has waited too long. Wednesday, N ovem:ber 20, 1974 The meeting to decide on 11 means of exchange of talent with the Eighth Step Coffeehouse will be held in the Cabaret on Nov. 25 at 9:30. 35 cents Film C.Orilittee Rated X· Race Relations at Union The Film Committee has cancelled four films that Were scheduled for. Winter Term. All of the cancelled. film!! were X-rated and Film Committee Chairman Liz Pava stated that the cancellations were made to avoid possible negative repercussions arising out of the X-rated. nature of the films. The q \).estion arose last week when Pav.a asked Dean Herbert Wylen about showing the film \Sehind the Green Door.\ Not sure the college's position on who would bear the legal responsibility for snowing this film (which has been banned in some areas,), Wylen took the questi~n to the Administrative Sta(f Meeting. Since they possessed n.o information regarding such factors as student interest, alumni reaction, or legal potentialities, the Administration suggested that ~the Film Committee , should research these questions before proposing to show this type of film. When the Film Committee does research these questions,. they will propose a,coll¢ge policy to deal with the issue. Dean Wylen emphasized that there was no question of censorship involved; and that the legal- issue seems- to be the most difficult one.· The Film Committee as of Friday, had not obtained legal advice pertai-ning to the showing of these movies. Dean of Students Mark Smith H ugh A lle 11 W i l s o n , c ha.irman of the Arts Department and professor of Music, will present the first in a series Of organ recitals on SnQday; November 24 in Memorial Chapel at 4:00 p.m. l'he program will include selections from Bach, lves, and Froberger .. s·uggests that the Film Committee! consult coiiege official~ in· the · Development and Alumni offices : · in order to determine possible '· effects ()f these movies on the public imi}ge of the college. · Pava stated that there would be no difficulty in Feplacing these X- · rated movies with other fi,Jms. Official ·Position by LIZ PAVA At an admini!!trative staff meeting last Wednesday, the question was posed whether or not the college ought to adopt a policy concerning the film Dr. Nathan Wright exchanges ideas with Howie Committee's right to shaw X- E,pstein during seminar directed at improving race rated films. especially those of · relations at Union. photo by Ra Johnson. pornographic caliber. NO· 1--.,..----,--..,....: __ ...._ _____________________ , decision of either censorship or blanket ·permission was tendered. l:.nste~~«i it was s t ro n.gly recommended t~t.- ~he _film Committee explore, soon and extensively, what positive or negative affects X -rated films. have on the various ar.eas of enterprise at Union. These a·reas inclu.d(! .student life, pub lie relations, alumni affairs, developm.ent, and legal responsibility, among others. Requested to acknowlege that possibly valid and serious consequences are implied in showing such films, .the Film Committee has arrived at the following position on this issue. Films must be booked several months in advance of their show dates. As of last week our Continued on Page 5 Student Advisors -. . Assist Freshntan by Judy Dein As pre-registration rolls around, students .are again faced with· the decision as to • which courses to take next term. Most freshmen thi!l- year have been given the additional help of a Student Advisor to assist them in selecting courses. The Stude.nt advising program came into affect this fall in response to a report submit.ted by the Committee on Freshmen made several years ago. It is basically a student run program, Bly Poetry Reading which was organi1.ed by Roy Rubenfeld, Fred Simon, Liz Pava and AI Reisch. Nancy Golden, Candy Dunlop and Bruce Downsbrough have joined in the planning of the program. The purpose of the advising program is basically to help freshmen choose courses outside their major. The philosophy behind having a student advisor is that a Facurty Advisor is best equipped to advise students in courses in . their major field. However, since tlie Student Advisors have taken a wider range of courses which encompass other departments. it is thought they are probably more qualified to recommend electives. The actUal procedure of the Student Advisor's program differs. in each department. Fo'r example, j Continued on Page 1 0 Wright Emphasizes Basic Differences by CHRIS O'CONNOR Dr. Nathan Wright, in a lecture aimed at improving race relations at Union, emphasized the essential differences between the black and white identities. Dr. Wright was the guest of President Bonner, and is an acquaintance of Bonner's from the Ia tter's days at the University of Cincinnati, where Dr. Wright also taught. President Bonner asked Dr. Wright to talk about the black and white identities, and Dr. Wright declared his intention to speak viscerally, hoping to stimulate intellectual response from his gut feelings. Declaring the purpose · of education the teaching of the ability to ·\generalize with sophistication,\ Dr. Wright proceeded to generalize about black and white people. He stated his be lief that -we are all prodticts of our culture, and that \our free will is less than the tip of the iceberg of what makes us what we are.\ Therefore, due to these cultural forces, there is a generalizable black and white identity. Dr. Wright's first point, repeatedly emphasized, was the existence ·of this essential difference between black and white people. For Wright, color is a limiting factor which prevents \americanization.\ Given the dichotomy· between black and white, Dr. Wright then discussed the black identity in more detaiL He talked of black people as having lived on the \balconies of American life.\ From this point on the fringes of society, Dr. Wright claims, can be found the best vantage point for (ontinued on Page 3 Robert Bly, a priz:e-winning poet .and one of the first American writers to actively oppose the Vietnam War, will give a p.oetry reading Thurspay, November 21, in SS 016. Unlike many contemporary American poets, Bly refuses to support himself by teac-hing at universities, and instead. relies largely on his poetry readings to support himself and his family. Nobel Laureate To Speak at Union Progressi\'e An1eril:an poet .. appearing at Union this Thw·sda,r. Hly published his first book of poems .. \Silence in the Snowy Fields,\· in 1962. His second hook, \The Light · Around the Body,\ won the :\ational Book Award for Poetry in 196X. At the award ceremony. Hly criticited American puhlishers for their refusal· to take ~land<: and donated his prize money to the draft resistance movement. I wo vears earlier. he and David · Blv had founded \American W ~iters Against the Vietnam War,\ which organi7.ed the first series of poetry readings agains.t t haot war and pulllished it collection of antiwar texts. I he reading will begin !t Ui p.m. by Judy Dein I o add some excitement and thought provoking discussions to Union College, Phi .Beta Kappa is spoilsori:ng an \intellectual marathon.\ This marathon. based on \Nature of Personality\ will take place next term on Thursday, February 13th and Friday, February 14th. It will involve 300 students and 15 outside faculty members. The marathon will conclude with a luncheon and talks by two internationally known speakers, Dr. Eccles and Dr. Scriven. Dr. Eccles and Dr. Scriven have totally opposing views as to What determines human behavior and personality. Dr. John Eccles was a Professor of Physiology at SUNY Buffalo Medical School. Hefore his formal retirement he was voted the most popular professor by undergraduate students. He is a Nobel Prize winner in Biology and is currently r e s e a rc h i n g p h y s i o I o g i c a I explanations of human behavior and personality. Dr. Michalll Scriven is Professor of Philosophy and the U niversitv of California at Berkeley.\ He is probably the countrv's leading expert in the philos~phy of psychology and has written numerous hooks and articles regarded as crucial in contemporary philosophy. Drs. Eccles and Scriven have been on the same platfo'rm once before, and arc .looking forward to meeting again. Group Talks The 300 students involved in ( ontinued on Page 8

·, \ . 'I ·, l Page2 ~~~ ~' Gimtror-btnmis ~ you said· if Editors-in-chief.. ........................... Chris O'Connor Rob Mondschein Culture Editor ..................................... Peter Sobol Features Editor ................................... Jon Scheer Sports Editors .............................. Kevin Crawfo·rd Bill Underhill Ph0to Editors .................................... Bob Johnson Ellen Radack Danny McManamon Graphic Arts Editor ....................... , ... Bob Johnson Managing Edi.tor. ......................... Doug Carpenter Contributing Editors .......... _ ................... Judy Dein Fred Weinstein Historical Editor ....... ; ................................ Bill Talis. Business Manager .............................. Jennifer Port National Advertising .......................... Steve Kelley Subscriptions Editor ............................... Lisa Tietz Joanne Laufer Art Staff.. .................... ............ Marianna Petrik Jill Dannenberg CONCORDIENSIS is published every Wednesday by the student body of Union College, Old Gym Hall, Schenectady~ N ,\'. Publications Office: The Jewish World Publications, 771 State St., Sc}lenectady, N.Y. 12307 (346-2356}. Entered in the Schenectady Post Office as Second Class Matter. Subscription Rate 35 cents per copy. $8.00 a year delivered anyV\'here in the United States. its about time~ As one who is not ashamed of progress, I am elated at the 'bis.c·uits Editors, Concordiensis, As most students on this campus . are aware, there is widespread famine t·hroughout Africa and Asia. Today's Times (Wed., Nov. 13, 1974) had anothe.r of a seemingly endless series of articles on this problem. rhe article mentions the fact that relief has come in the form of survival biscuits from the U.S. of A. As the residents of West read the article, they may have been aware of the survival crackers in the basement.· These supplies would probably be vaporized with G.E. in a nuclearattack. They are periodicaUy looted. In conclusion they are a white elephant of another age. The donation of these stores to Bangl~desh would be an attempt to prevent a holocaust, rather than preparing for one. It seems strangely egocentric to be prepared for a self-made disaster when we can't cope with natural disasters. I propose that the administration turn over the supplies to a relief organization. · s.s. clarific.ation possibilities for further constructi()n on this campus which were Editors, CQncordiensis, · opened up by the decision to build an ice rink. I would like to clarify any It is certainly about time that that hideous patch of unruly misunderstandings arising from comments made in last week's vegetation was wiped out. ThaiLk goodness it was the last Concordy concerning budgeting remaining @n this campus. l was gratified to see that\ the of the Black Student Alliance and decision to build the rink there was made without consulting the Tax Committee. the carfipus development commit tee, which no ~oubt would T h e Tax Co m m i t tee have raised sillyand time-consuming objections. . unanimously decided to increase the budget of the BSA with no I 'was also gratified to hear that the meandering quagmire intention of threats to withhold affectionately called .. the brook t:hat bounds·\ is to he slowly money from that organization. 1t but surely sealed safely away in a ~;ulvert. The repeated failures is the unanimous feeling of the to have that troublesome sewer diverted well upstream of the Tax Committee that this campus had caused me to believe that we should always be budgetary decision was justified by the proposed activities. plagued with eroding banks and collapsing walls. How ingenius Concordiensis incorrectly to simply seal it away! reported that the Steering The one disadvantage to culverting the brook is that there Committee would act to alter the will be no cause to move the socc:er field and cut down those nature of the BSA. Furtherm2re, hideous ·Norway maples. Those permanent concrete stands my statements pertaining to the BSA ·s functioning purpose which are projected for the new f()otball field will be the best implied a!l unfair burden on the thing that ever happened to this· campus; they will block out the B~A. which reflect my ignorance view of all those awful trees grO\ving off the campus that we of the cultural differences on this have no power to cut down. And the new stands will only cost campus. The understanding of as much as it has cost the college to assemble and disassemble these differences should be the responsibility of every student, those bothersome present stands for the last fifteen years. and not of any particular group if How blind those who scre.am about a .lack of parking space this community is to achieve any for the rink really are. Why right between the field house and ·sense of continuity. the street is a huge expanse of lancl just waiting to be asphalted To this end, I hope that and black-topped! And why should we stop there? Think about students will objectively seek out all campus organizations for the it. In this time of fuel shortages, we must remember how much activities which they offer. gasoline is gobbled up each year l>y lawn mowers. With a few Also, deleted were my remarks minor adjustments, soccer and football can be played on concerning what I believe to be cement surfaces. Underneath the cement we can have heating great shortcomings of the· d f b 1 structure of the Tax Committee. pipes to melt the snow, enabling us to play wccer an. oot a 1 The responsibility of distributing all year 'round. Tf1ink of the savings in groundskeeping $150,000 by only three individ-uals expenses. is too concentrated a power in Let's face it. Asphalt is the 'look. of the future. How easy it student government. I. hope that would be to blend our campus atmosphere with that of the Steering Committee will enlarge the Tax Committee's downtown Schenectady. All that need be done is to pull up all membership or seek , other those new trees before they grow enough to damage the alternatives that will encourage buildings. Come now, one of you must be Willing to donate the wider participation in student money for that. government. pgs don't fund pirg The Union College Public Interest Research Group wants si1< dollars a yeJtr from every student in order to fund their activities. To get this six dollars they will ask the Steering Committee to oetition the Board of Trustees to place this am()unt ~s a charge or. the bills of all students. Concordieosis urges the Steering Committee not to pass this proposal. · If the students of U niort choose to support PIRG, they can do so without the college intervening. Sincerely, Bili Talis, Secretary Student Tax Committee • purge p1rg To the Editor: Last week you published an article describing the proposed establishment of a chaptei: of PI RG (Public Interest Research Group). Pirg is a creation of Ralph Nader-. and is essentially an advocacy group for students. Next Monday, Nov. 25, a group of students will request that the Steering Committee recommend to the Board of Trustees that a $6 a year charge be added >to e;tch student's bill to provide base funding for this organization. Some students Who are supporting PIRG tell me that \if.t am not satisfied with PIRG's performance at the end of the year I can apply to g~t it back.\ Last week's article says that the refund will be made a few weeks after the ·beginning of each term. I have several obj~ctions to all this: My first objection is that Nader's group is essentially a political organization, whose goals are to achieve social change. If I happen to disagree with the proposed socia~ehange, then this ·group works to my detriment, and I am forced to pay for it I should point out that I do not object to PlRG's presence on ~ampus, I merely Object to paying fgr It. My second objection is that this is a,n off-campus organization, national in character, and cannot possibly be controHed entirely by ·us, the students who have to pay for it. lt strikes me that some off- campus politicaf agitators have co•opted a group of naive, idealistic students in order to raise money for their own political lobby. Union College. is not a milk producers' co-operative. A third objection is that the College's bill is for things like tuitio.n, room, hoard, lab fees, health insurance, scholarship credits, etc. It is a device used to facilitate sm.ooth operation of the financial end of the College. The Trustees allow a student tax to be levied as part of the bill, and even then they . control the amount, although they don't (and according to the administration, would not) say how the steering committee should allocate it. In fact, just last term the Trustees approved a $15 per annum increase in the Student Tax. Thus .. .• . op1n1on: it is. by very special c'onsideration that the Trustees allow the student government to use the bifl to collect this money. For the Trustees to 'add another account to the hill for an off-campus, political organization which is not a cc;mstituted part of the student :body would. be to create a dangerous pr~cedent. Soon, anybody and their btother could create an organization and ask fer special funding via the bill. It appears to me that the organiz.ers of PIRG are hypocritical indeed. They want to set themselves up .as a club or organization, be~;ome the hallowed watchdogs and a venerable force of _good in t'he community, and get a special pro:viso tor permanent funding. They are too good to ask the student tax committee for money, because then they would be like any other ch.1b on campus. They want special status, but isn't the whole idea behind Nader's organization to work against special status? My suggestion for those students who want some experience in this field is to take Professor Underwood's Comp Ed Project on the State Legislature next term, and to stop playing pqlitics. You might learn something.· I urge aU stJldents to join with me in opposing this 'favored status' the PIRG organization is seeking. Write your steering committee me·mber, com-e to their meeting on Monday, express your ·dismay to anybody who will listen (Student Trustees Geoff Taylor and Bruce Sostek, President Bonner and Provost Enteman, to name a few). Raise Hell!!! Blair Reischer no optional tax by BRUCE. DOWNSBROUGH As a method offunding student .activities on the Union College campus, the Board· of Trustees has, for many years, maintained a \Student Activity Fee,\ required of all day degree candidates. The funds raised through this fee are appropriated by the Board to the student government mechanism for use in the sponsoring and maintenance of the various extra-curricular actiVIties. The Stee~ing Committee, in turn, has de·legated the functioll of allocating this money to a Student Tax Committee (retaining for itself the right to allow or disallow the committee's various a'llocations), with the provision that activities which shall receive such funds are to have· Steering Committee approved constitutions. Recently a group called Public Interest Research Group (PI·RG) has asked the Steering Committee for permission to by~pllss this student activity allocation procedure, and ask the Board of Trustees for an additional \optional\ tax of $1.00 on top of the current student activity fee. 'rhe tax would automatically appear en each student's bill, although the student would h~ve the option of not paying,. and all funds raised through this extra tax would go directly to PIRG. I am absolutely opposed to this request, and urge the Steering Committee and Trustees to defeat the. proposal with all deliberate speed. My opposition tests largely on procedural grounds: I am NOT opposed to the establishment of PIRG; rather, I deplore the method by which they have chosen to try tci circumvent long-establisbed student and college sanctioned procedures. Why should PIRG merit any special considerations? What makes this group so much better or different from any other student activity that they should be freed from the shackles of their very own student government? Certa.inly \Protect Your Environment,\ \The Student Social Action Committee,\ and \Big Brothers and Sisters\ have social aims and goals which are at least as laudable as the consumer protectionism of PIRG. Yet these .all submit to the annual budget procedure of Student Tax, and seem not to suffer. any ill effects. Why should PIRG be any different? Severa] years ago there was, in ·fact, a PIRG chapter on the Union campus, a chapter which obviously fizzled very badly. But the group did exist at one time, so why doesn;t the current group of people reorganize themselves und~r the 0ld PIRG constitution? From my talks with the current group of PJRG organizers, they have not even investigated the possibility of the existence of such a document. PIRG makes the·claim that this • \optional tax\ system which they propose would make for a \mote stable svstem\ as the group needs Continued oli Page 3 Attention Juniors and Seniors: AU Juniors and Seniors.wilf soon be recehing a questi()nnaire from the tomp. Ed. Board. You will be asked to list all the Comp. Ed$ you ha1'e talen iltld rate tlient' bh a scale of l to 7. The purpose of ·this questionn11ire is to help determine which eoui'Sd need re-.eval11ation. · h c• n L fi Sl t:i \ f, t t

- tion the biJJ the mnt pus, net Jertt : a >on, mid fer the are t to or the a the cia! ing. the 1ey, like hey the er's inst tOSe >me ake Bd ure ·ing :trn lith red 1 is ing reir our ten •lor ent to her 1ny 1at ter 1er lld eir nt? ur :nt nd IVe at 1er ~se ~et nd ts. ny In he ch ut so of ·es t{! nt ey he ~h liS ~y re cis 3 Ice Rink ·construction .Causes More Problems by P:ETE SOBOL Rumors ef every shape and size have l>egun to circulate concerning the effect which the new ice ·rink will have on the Lenox Read end of Ci!mpus. The final state of tile campus ~fter the ~'\'ll\i:l : srooke clears and the rink is finished is something no one can predict with certainty, but the following plans have been made. . An important disaster took place last MondaY when the retaining wall near the fiel<l heuse gave up the ghost and fell into the brook. Tbe ·brook is subject to variab:le fits of flood.ing since it is fed .from storm drains; The sc'hool was .given three alterrtatjves I:Jy th~ waWs demise. The first was to rebuild the wall and add another on the other ba.·nk to keep the ice rin'k from falling into the brook The second was to grade. back , from the brook on both sides and put in stone rubble to stop ttie erosion. Since both these to bury the goal posts to the measures woul.d be very unsightly, crossbar. Without putting the the 'third proposal seems the mosF b:rook iri the culvert, the soccer likely to be implemented, fie.Jd would have to be moved the socce.r field and the construction of per_mlinent coricerte stands. One of the major problems with the rink will beparking area, or lack thereof. Apparently, the ground over the culvert will not be made into parking area. The rink is designed to seat 2,500 people one day. In that <:a.se parking for 1000 cars is a rontinued on Page 10 Page3 Grie.v·ance Procedure by CHRIS O'CONNOR . ~ditors Note: The situation of faculty ~ student conflicts, over grading, personality; or whatever, can be one of the most upsetting experiences of a student's college career. In this article, the chan.ne.Is of recourse o.pen to !ltudents are examined and alternative methods discussed. DeEJ;n of Faculty Martin Lichterman .sighted the first recourse for a student with a complaint about a particular faculty. member's action as that very faculty member. Describing this as a less than obvious choice, Lichterman stated that most conflicts can be wod{:ed out amically between the professor and the stude.nt involved. It is for more ~rious disputes that fortnal procedures have been set up. The first step in this procedure is to go to some third party facUlty member that hoth professor and student .agree on. This can work well for grading questions, but is difficult when the problems are more p~_rsonality oriented. For these types of problems, the chairman of the department should be co-nsulted. Failing to gain satisfaction even at this hive!, the Dean -of the Faeulty is the last resort in the hierarchy. Union does not maintain, as some larger colleges, do. an ombUdsman. This position (or positipns) is an administrator, with a staff, whose sole function is the processing of student cornpblints, be they about faculty or food, grades or social life. However, the charge of the Liason and Governance Committee does begin with the line that the committee shall act as \corporate ombudsman for all grievances, real or imagined.\ The fact that this committee w~s also given responsibility f9r matters of .governance is thought to have weakened its ability to serve this ombudsman fuction. Lichterman telt the present system adequate. However, he cited the specific areas of student charges of racism a·nd sexism as requiring other ineasures. To this end, weekly meetings have been inaugurated this term between certain faculty and black students. The purpose of these meetings is to sensitize faculty members to the feelings of black students. Dean of Students Mark Smith agr~ed with Lichterman that the racism issue deserved closer scrutiny. Both Deans agreed that ,the idea of an ombudsman, or perhaps a grievance committee seemed to make more sense, than the present scattered system for responding to student grievances, and deserved more consideration. The third p.roposal entails the twenty feet. towa11ds the football brook being put in a culvert for· field which would entail 170 feet upstream from the uprooting the scoreboatd and wooden bridge. Culverting is possibly cUtting down some of the considered an· attractive meas11re Norway maples which line the since it would allow moving the path to l-enox Road between the rih k's site toward the field house. twp. fields, Putting the .brook in a As the rinlc was originally situated culvert would n0.t save the soccer on the plans, it was on a level field from being moved, hut the many feet higher than the soccer distanc«:!· ·would .be lowere.d to field. The hank down to soccer fourteen feet. Room would also field level, it was found, projected ·then he available for the p<)ssible o.ut onto the soccer field as far as movement .of the football field to Union Day Care Center . . Opposes Student. Tax For PIRG-Use Continued from Page 2 t<l know at the beginning of each. term how much money it has before it proceeds with any projects. This flies in the very face of logic. The Student Tax system allocates budgets on a yearly· basis. Thus, under Student Tax, PIRG would be able to organize and p.Jan fgr a year at a time with stabHity. Under their sy~tem, t;hey could only go three months at a time before wondering whether or not there would be any funds to continue. I fa:il to see how this would provide them with stability. PIRG also states that they have hacking from several academic depart-ments on campus who will give academic credit for projects undertaken for PIRG. If this is so, why hasn't PlR G approached these departments for funding? Student Activities ate distinctly non-academic in nature. Students contribute their shate of the academic funding throu.gh tuition, and not through ac~ivity fees or optional student taxes. Finally 1 ,the implications of ~he PIRG petition fer the whole stqdent g.overhment structure a,re ominous, at best. The precedent which approval of the PIRG petition will'set means that any student activity illfiY by-pass the student e.stablished and sanctioned system of fund allocation for any reason, and ask lor the establishment of its own special \optional tax.\ This has several ramifications.. The end result of all this will be a defunct 'Serving Union For Three Generations; • 166 Ja)' St. • f.~'ir •hlru:!\l ~r\ i~e: .•\nd (IIN'Id .ltMif.\' tax structure and spme fifty -or sixty optional two-dbllar taxes on every stqdent's bill for every term. Aside from the obvious confusion which this will entail, some peoJlle will get hurt because the resl.ll:tant system would be horrendou~ly complex, and it's easier tojust go ahead and pay the damned thing than to figure it out. But in the long run, I would be willing to wager that all of the activities w!Jl be hurt because they would he at the continual mercy of p-leasing most of the students most of the time in order to ~;ontinue with any sizeable funding, and that is an impossible task. In the meantime. the PlRG precedent will thus have managed to attack and kill the current student governmental system :(and to substitute an uqmanageable non-system in its place), without ever once having investigated the wisdom of such a move, or the underlying conditions Which might, iii fact, exist and make some sort of reform des.ireable. PIRG would do us all a: fat better public S'erv..ice if they were to accept our current student goyernance procedures.as given, and· then make research into that system and the possibilities for chapge thereof their first major Pu:blic Interest Research Task. TYPING Reasonable Rates Fast Service 393 .. 2233 In the nether corners of UColl campus - beyond the b'rook, beyond the fie-ld house - lies 856 Nott Street, otherwise known as the Union College Child Day Care Center. Since September 23, in the former Reece House, this .non-profit cooperative has bee'n operating for the benefit of the Union College Community. A few Professor's wives last January began to look into the formation of a day care center. Surveying the campus for a possible headq.uarters the college donated the use of \856.\ The Departments of Health and Social Services were investigated to find the requirements necessary for the operation of the day care center. Then after much work and planning ~- to the sound. of cheering crowds ~ the day-care c~nter bega'n its first year of operation. Open to Union college~s faculty, administration and students the co-op usually takes care of 13 children, ra-nging in age from 8 weeks to 5 years. It is under the Sl!pervision of 2 accredited- teachers who provide the children with activities. lt is a total cooperative, which is rare for this type of organization. Each family has one vote in the decisions concerning the house, and each family must contribute ·one person one morning per month to cook and dean at the hol!se. Each member contributes $25 per week, but there are other pay scales for 'those whose children are less frequent visitors. (For exact information one should contact the day care center.) The money goes toward paying the teachers and the utilities of the house as well as food for lunches. I he co-op is helping and is in !!II IIIII I 11111111111111111111111111 llllllllllllllllllf!!: 5 . - ' - 5 § ALGUR § 5 LIQUOR ;; - - § CENTER § - - - -· - - = = e 75\ Eastern Ave. 5 - - § 346-5151 § - - - - § LOWE'S.'T PRICES 5 - - - - 5 ALLOWED § · - - § IN !'J!.Y. STATE 5 - - - - - . = , .i; Ill rllllllllllllllllllllllllllllll I Ill 1111111111111 m turn helped !rom various psychology classes. Students from Ms. Britain's child psych. class are required to work for 4 hours a week at the day care center. .Jhey learn about that mystical creature, the child, while they perform the needed function .... '·~ ·~·-· ~. ! .. ·. :_ ~- . . ·it . o watching the children. The Cabaret is having a special hertefit night this coming Tuesday, November 26, featuring several faculty members in order to raise money for the day care center. BE THERE! Nathan Wright On Race Continued _from Page l observing society. He claimed that black people hold the greatest potential for creativity and genius, being able to tmnscend the culturally, limited white view. His position was that being outside the mainstream of American culture, blacks may with keenest insight and most \ creative viewpoint describe that culture. Thus, blacks become a necessary part of any true university, that is, any institution that seeks truth sincerely from all viewpoints. Dr. Wright' maintained that \unless Union College has a 20% black ... - - ··- ·...--==--'\\' LeVI'S . . population, in faculty, administration and students, it is not a true university.\ Dr. Wright frequently referred to the experience. ef Jewish people, and seemed to pose it as an example for blacks. The Jewish community has long t rea s u red i t s in t r in sic differentness, said Dr. Wright, and thus has also been seated on \the balconies of American life.\ Dr. Wright maintained that the Jewish Community has used this vantage point on the fringes of society to become the most creative group in the last several centuries of Western thought. In like manner, Dr. Wright called on whites and blacks to recognize the difference between white and black cultures, and realize the potential for learning from those differences, rather than trying to mitigate them.

,, Page4 CONCORDIENSIS~ Wednesday, Nov. 20, 1974 ----------A·merica The third concert of the Schenectady Museum-Union College concert series occured Monday night with the a-ppearance of the London Virtuosi, a chamber group comprised of first seat players of the London Symphony Orchestra. On their first American tour, the Virtuosi experienced travel difficulties which made it impossible for viela da gamba p'layer Jane Ryan to. perform. Thus, the lineup for the concert was: Edward Becket, flute; Anthony Camden,. oboe; John Georgiadis, violin; Brian Hawkins, viola; Douglas Cummings, cello; and David Lumsden, · harpsichord. The program consisted of six works by major composers of the baroque and classical periods. All were well played by' the various combinations of musicians. Particularly effective were the Quintet in D Major (flute, oboe, violin, cello and harpsichord) by Johann Christian Bach, Vivaldi's Concerto in G Minor, the Oboe Sonata in C Major of Loeillet and Beethoven's Serenade in D Majnr for flute, violin and viola. Following the Beethoven piece, the response of the large tUrnout at Memorial Chapel brought the London Virtuosi out for an encore. The effect of this was very reminiscent of that which the King's Singers achieved at the end of their program just two weeks ago. Via.linist John Georgiadis gave a brief account of the encore piece's history, the gist of it being that every English composer asked to write an encore piece for .~ The London Virtuosi minus harpsichordist. the group refused. The group turned to a man who was not a musician at all, but rather a defense lawyer, who gladly supplied ••An American .Encore.\ The piece was a humorous patchwork of Americana, ranging frotn the Star Spangled Banner to Yankee Doodle, and the audience · seemed to have as much fun in listening as musicians did in playing. by D. W. MULCAHY Steering Committee lhe Albany Symphony Orchestra made a rare Schenectady appearance Thursday, as they appeared at the Mem.orial Chapel in a concert sponsored by the Union College Social Committee. Under the leadership of Julius Hegyi, the Symphony played Mozart's P.osthorn Serenade in D, k. 320, the first horn concert of Richard Strauss, and the Rite of Spring hy Stravinsky. by BILL UNDERHILL The first order of business was the question of establishing a chapter of NYPIRG on Union's campus. It was decided, unanimously, to table the issue until the next meeting, so that student St!opport could be accurately gauged. NYPIRG is a non-profit organization which aids students working on such issues as political reform, and environmental and consumer protection. It was also suggested and agreed upon that a computer dance would be organized for next term, in hopes of bringing people on campus closer together. Finally, · Debbie G Iasser reported that her Constitutional Committee is waiting for a report by a similar committee established by the All~College Senate. Next meeting will be Monday, November 25 at 7 p .. m. in Strauss Lounge. The Mo~art serenade was first on the program. Less weighty and having more movement than the classical symphony, this piece deserves its name from the q~e of a posthorn (a type of bugle) in the second trio of the sixth movement. It was well played by the Orchestra, with the balance of sound overcoming the wooden acoustics of the Chapel. This was followed by the Strauss concerto. Written in the key of D Flat like his second horn concerto, this by DON KAPLAN Atlanta Baltimore Phoenix ... Troy. One Holiday Inn after another for America, who pa,cked the RPI fieldhouse Saturday night. How a band can sound so good after a grueling string of one-nighters is not only a credit to their music, but to Dewey Bunnel, Gerry Beckley, amt Dan Peek, themselves .. They seemed fresh and appeared to enjoy entertaining even though they are in the midst of a nationwide tour. If Amer.ca l0st you with \A Horse with No Name\ ~ well, they've come a long way since then. They even left that song out oftheir set until they were called back on stage three times. Arnetica 's music is now diverse and sophisticated. Opening with \Tin Man\ and other songs from their recent .. Holiday\ album, the group backtracked and went through the highlights 0f their other three LP's .. The audience loved every minute of it. When ~he group shifted from acoustic to electric sound, the lighting c,hanged too, picking out the Review work is a product of Strauss's student years. Peter Knott, principal horn ·o( the Albany Sympbony, played the solo part. While handling several of the difficuft sections well, Knott made a number of mistakes which detracted frow the overall level of performance. ·'Never havin6 heard Knott play before, ( assum. ~hat he was not having one of his best nights on Thursday. The second part of the program featured the Albany ~ymphony's first attempt to C'.Jpe with Stravinsky's extremely difficult · Rite of Spring. The group gave it a creditable reading and while the Orchestra is not yet up to .the inajor-league level, just performing this pieee indicates that they are on their way. There were a number of problems W\th the performance however. Muffed notes in many places and the inevitable wrong entrances diminished the over-aU effect. Some of Hegyi's ideas could be individual members of the group as they changed leads. About the only 'weakness Came in these long, rambling instrumental breaks when the timing wasn't quite ·together. The vocals ·were sharp, however, and on a whole, the group can dupHcate everything it can produce in a recording stUdio and more. That kind of style is hard to come by. A number of major groups use so many studio effects that they simply don't sound like thei( albums when they perform live. Sounding good in concert is an art in itself. A group will sound incomplete if it can.'t play all of the instruments it wants on its own, or bring along some backup. For example, a group like the Moody Blues have never rceally done well in concert - their albums ar.e the .products ·of months of dubbing. Also, the seemingly inevitable sound problems must be overcome. Am~rica doesn•t have these problems because each of the members play guitar, keyboards, and some percussion. They also brought along a. fine bassist and drummer. Their sound system was flawless in. ·spite of its staggering size. That's all the group needed to come across so welL The opening set for the concert was done by Chad Stuart, formerly of Chad and Jeremy (remember ••summeT Song\?). It was good to see that the duo's rnaterial has stood the test of time even when .performed by only one half .of the .original act. Chad's new songs don't fare quite so well. questioned as well. The tempos were in general on the siow side (although this may have been done to help the players) except during the slow· part in the ·middle of the first section. This, , I thought was taken much too fast. Another problem was the overloud playing . of· t'he percussion. While the score caUs Jor forceful playing, the amount of sound produced was almost painful at times. Despite these problems, the 'JVer-all performance and the strength of the m1.1sic were enough to create an enjoyable presentation. It is sad that rilore students could not drag themselves h'm their books for this. Concert~ of well-played orchestral music ue few and far between here at Union. .. ·.·.·······································-·.·.·.·.·.·.·.·.·.·.·.·.·.·.·.·.·.·.·.:.·.·.···················································~' h at· 's G m· ·n, B ·o n·=·:·:·:·:·:·:·:·:·:·:·:·:·:·:·:·:·:·:·:·:·:·:·:·:·:·:·:·:•:.:·:·:•:,:·:·:·:·:·:·:·:·:·:·:·:·:·:·:·:·:·:·:·:·:•:·:·:·:··························· ~~~~····························-································· ..... ·.············:·············~··········································=·· \ . . . . . , . . e . . ............. ························· ...................................... N.·.············@ ;:;: by MIKE AFFINITO ;:;: COFFEEHOUSES Nov. 22~23: \lie\, O'Neill, Fri., 4:30. 7:30, 9 pm; Sat. ••New England Oils and Watercolors\ weekdays, Nov. 22: Fennig's All Star String Band, country 7:30 & 9 pm, Arena 1 heatre, Performing Arts Center. 9:30-5:30, Sat., 9-5. Mayt&ir Galleries, 274 Saratoga dance, Eighth Step Coffeehouse, Trinity Method}st SJJ .N.Y .. at Albany. Free. Rd .. 399-3306. Church. Lark and Lancaster Sts .. Albany, 434-1703. Nov. 22·24: \South Pacific\ Colonie -, riune Players, Thru Dec. 21: Steve Ornler, Photography, weekdays, Nov. 22-24: Pat Webb, blues and country. Catfe Fri. and Sat., g:J5. Sun .. 2:15. Shaker High School. 9:,5, 1st level exhibit area. lhe Arts Center, 1069 New Lena. 47 Phila St.. Saratoga Springs. 5g4-97l59. 7S5-1124. Latham. Scotland Rd., Albany. Nov. 22-24: \Little Me''; Valley Players. tl: 15. Nicholas Morello, paintings. by Schenectady Art MUSIC Nov. 21: Troy Vocal Society, male chorus. -,roy Music Hall. 1 roy. Nov. 22: Schenectady Symphony Orchestra, Anthony Pezza no, lUO. Niskayuna High School Auditorium. Halltown Rd .. Schenectady. 393-7969. Nov. 22: The Williams Choral Scoiety, Kenneth Roberts. 8:30. \Ihompson Memorial ChapeL Williams College. Nov. 24: The Kinks, g pm. Palace Theatre. Clinton Ave .. Alhany. 457-6923. Nov. 26: Northeastern New York Youth Orchestra Concert, 8 pm, Memorial Chapel, Union. THEATER Nov. 21-24: \The Journey Back\ Ray Bono. t;:JO. New World Theatre, Schenectady. 370-0477. Nov. 20-23: ••Oone To Death\ 8:15. Ballston Spa Middle School. Rt. 6 7, Ballston Spa. No:v. 20·24: \A f'lea in Her Ear··, 1-c)dcau. l:UU~ Performing Arts Center. S.LJ.N .Y. at Albany. 457-El606. Hudson Valley Comm. College. ·r roy. Society, Mon., Wed .. Fri. 9-12 am. St. Paul's Church. LECTURES Nov. 22: Sir John Wedgwood, '\Interior Decoration in the I tlth Century\. lUO. Albany Institute ol History and Art, 125 Washington Ave., Albany. Nov. 23: Dr. Ken Murphy, \Do You Know What You're Breathing?\ 3:30pm. Planetarium. Schenectady Museum. Nov. 25: James Sledd, '\English tor Survival'\. tl: I 5. Lecture Center 2. S.U.N.Y. at Albany. 457-61)23. Nov. 23: Greg Lyons: \The Adverse Effects of Throating\ A tirade to be delivered from the 4th floor of Soutb College at aoout 3 am. Entertainment in the form of Monty Python . comedy routines will be providttd prior to the lecture. Union. Schenectady. Matthew Popielarz, oil paintings. Mon .. Wed .. hi .. 9-9. Tues.. lhurs., Sat.. 9-5. Schertlc <.ialiery. I g2o Central Ave., Albany. 456-733~. FILMS Nov. 21: \Dawn Patrol\ il pm. Harmanus Bleecker Library. 19 Dove St., Albany. 465-1463. t-ree. . Nov.·21: \My Favorite Wife\ 7 pm. Community Room. Saratoga Springs Public Library. Saratoga Springs. Free. Nov-. 21: \Perils From the P.lanet Minge\ Hash Gordon. ·6:30, Arbor Hill Branch Librar\'. 50 :\. Lark St.. Albany. 465-1463. Free. - Nov. 25: Grand Illusion, 8:30. auditorium. St. Joseph's Hall. College 0f St. Rose. Al~any. 471-5102. ART Nov. 22: 8 pm. I<'ilm Series J)resents \Oedipus Rex\ Thru Dec. 15: Ira Current, Photographs. l) am-9 pm. SS016, Union. Shelnutt Art Gallerv RPL 270-6505. Nov, 23·24: \Paper Moon\ 7, 9, 11 pm, SSOI6, Thru Dec. 21: Faculty Show, ~eekdays. · ~~5. l he Union. Arts Ccntet:. IOoY :\cv. ~rotland Rd .. Aloany. 4J~~ Nov. 26: ••Mr. Smith Goes To Washington'\ 8, 10 ~~11 7!{85. pm, SS016, Union. l:l: :•:• 0 , t _ t t t 0 0 t 0 0 0 0 o o 0 ~ • o • • 4 • • • ~ •, • .. , •, • , \o' •o•o~o\o\t\'t\t\O\ o 0 t 'o\i-~o'Oo'!o\ 0,. 0 .I 0 0 0 0 0 0 I I I 0 I 0 f • .. 't-1 1ft 0 •t·t oo o,f.l 0 t 0 I I to 0 0 0 o o o 0 0 to 1 1 0 o.•:•:

Page4 CONCORDIENSJS, Wednesday, Nov. 20, 1974 ,:;' The london Vlrtuoa:f ~' I he third concert of the Schenectady Museum-Union College concert series occured Monday night witi;J the appeara nee of the London Virtuosi. a chamoer group cnmprised of first seat players of the London Symphony Orchestra. On their first Americall tour, the Virtuosi experienced travel difficultie~ which made it unpnssihle lor \it>la da gamba player Jane Ryan to perform. lhus, the lineup for the coNcert \\a;.: Ldward Hecket, flute; :\ nthon~ Camden, o boc: John (icnrgiadis, violin: Brian Ha11.kin~. \iola: Douglas Cumming~. cello: and David I unhde n. harp-.ic hurd. I he prngram L\lm-.istcd of -.ix works h~ llloiJ<lr compll'>\?1''> of the h.n•>~.J U<.: .tnd cla\'ical pniod\ .. ·'\II llt.:n: llt.:ll pla~<:d o~ the 1arious combinations of musicians. Particularly effective were the (.)uintet in D Major (!1ute. ohoe, \iolin. cello and harpsichord) hy .Johann Christian Hach, Vivaldi's Concerto in G Minor. the Ohoe Sonata inC Major of l.oeillet and Beethoven's Serenade in IJ Major lor f1ute. violin and viola. The London Virtuosi minus harpsh·hordiYt. ----America by DON KAPLAN Atlanta Baltimore Phoenix ... Troy. ONe Holiday Inn after another for America, \\.ho packed the RPI fieldhouse Saturday nigl1t. How a band can ~ound so good after a grueling ~tring of (JF!c-nighters is not olilly a credit to their music, but to Dewey Bunne I, Gerry Beckley, and Dan Peek, themselves. They ~cemed fresh and appeared to enJoy eJ;Jtertaining even though they are in the midst of a nationwide tour. If America lost yOU with \A Horse with 1\io :\arne\ well, they'\e come a long way ~ince then. They even left that ~ong out of their set until they were called back on stage three times. America's mmic 1> no\'. divcr~e and ~oph.i~tieated. Opening with ... 1 in !\I an\ and other ;,ong~ from their recent \llolida}\ alhum, the group backtrackeJ and \\ent through the highlights of their other three LP's. The audience loved every minute of it. When the group shifted from acoustic to electric sound, the lighting changed too. ricking out the Review individual members of the group as they changed leads. About the omly weakness came in these long, ram hling instrumental breaks when the timing wasn't quite together. The vocals were sharp, however, and on a whole, the group can duplicate everything it can produce in a recording studio and more. I hat kind of style is hard to come by. A number of major groups use so many studio effects that they sim pliy don't sound like their allmms when they perform live. Sounding good in concert is an art in itself. A gro.mp wi:ll \ound incomplete if it can't play all of the instruments it wants on its own, or bring along some hackup .. For example, a group like the Moody Blues have never really done we II in concert their a lhums arc the products of months of duhhing. t\lso, the 'eemingly inevitahle sound problems must be overcome. America doesn't have these problems hecause each of the members play guitar, keyboards, and some percussion. They also hrought along a fine bassist and drummer. Their sound system was flawless in spite of its ~taggering size. That's all the group needed to come across so well. 1-ollowing the Beethoven piece. the response of the large turnout at Memorial Chapel orought the London Virtuosi out lor an encore. I he effect of this was very reminiscent of that which the King:\ Singers achieved at the end the group refused. I he group turned to a man who was not a rn usician at aIL hut rat her a defense lawyer. who gladly 'upplied \An American Encore.\ lhe r1ece was a humorous patchwork of Americana. ranging from the Star Spangled Banner to Yankee Doodle, and the audience ~eemed to have as much fun in listening as musicians did 111 playing. Albany Symphony I he opening set for the concert was done by Chad Stuart. lormerly of l had and Jeremy lrememher '\Summer Song\?). It was good to see that the duo's material has stood the test of time even when performed by only one half of the original act. Chad's new songs don't fine quite so well. of their program just two weeks ago. Vio.linist John Ciet>rgiadis gave a brief account of the encore piece\ history. the gist of it being that every Engli\sh composer asked to write an encore piece for b:y D. W. J\ill: LCAHY I he Albany Symphony Steering Committee Orchestra made a rare Schenectady appearance I hursday, as they appeared at the Memorial Chapel in a concert ~ponsored by the Union College Social Committee. Under the leadership of Julius Hegyi. the Symphony played Mozart's Posthorn Serenade in D, k. 320. the first horn concert of Richard Strauss. and the R. ite of Spring by Stravinsky. \\ ork is a product of Strauss's ~tudent years. Peter Knott, pnncipal horn ot the Albany Symphony. played the solo part. While handling several of ~he difficult sections well, Knott made a number of mistakes which detracted from the overall level of performance. Never havinc heard Knott play hefore, I assurr •. ;hat he was not having one of his best nights on Thursday. LJUCstioned as well. I he tempos \\ere in general on the slow side (although this may have been done to help the players) except during the slow part in the middle of the first section. This, I thought was taken much too fast. by BILL UNDERHILL I he first order of husiness was the question of establishing a chapter of NYPIRG on Union's campus. It was decided, unanimously, to table the issue until the next meeting, so that student support could be accurately gauged. NY PI RG is a non-pro fit organization which aids students working on such issues as political reform, and cnvironm~ntal and consumer protection. It was also suggested and agreed upon that a computer dance would be organized for next term, in hopes of bringing people on campus closer together. I he Mozart serenade was first on the program. Less weighty and having more movement than the classical symphony, this piece deserves its name frDm the use of a posthorn (a type of bugle) in the ~econd trio () f the sixth movement. It was well played by the Orchestra. with the balance of ~ound overcomin,g the wooden acoustics of the Chapel. This was followed by the Strauss concerto. Written in the key of D Flat like his second horn concerto, this I he second part of the program featured the Albany ')ymphony's t irst attempt to C<Jpe with Stravinsky's extremely difficult Rite of Spring. The group gave it a creditable reading and while the Orchestra is not yet up to the major-league level, just performing this piece indicates that they are on their way. There were a n urn her of problems with the performance however. Muffed notes in many places and the inevitable wrong entrances diminished the over-all effect. Some of Hegyi's ideas could be Another problem was the overloud playing of the rercussion. While the score calls for forceful playing, the amount of sound produced was almost rainful at times. Despite these problems, the :.ver-a!! rerf ormance and the strength of the music were enough to create an enjoyable presentation. It is ~ad that more students could not drag themselves fr,>m their books I or this. C oncertc of we 11-p·layed orchestral music \rc few and far hetween here at Union. 1-inally, Debbie G Iasser reported that her Constitutional Committee is waiting for a report by a similar committee established by the All-College Senate. :\ext meeting will be Monday, ~ovemher 25 at 7 p.m. in Strauss Lounge. =::;::::::::::::::=:=::::;:::::::;:;:;:;:;:;:;:;:;:;:;:;:;:;:;:;:;:;:;:;:;.;.;:;:;:;:;.;.;:;::::::::::::::::::::::=:=::::;::=:=::::::::::::::What' s G o·i ng 0 n::::::::;:;:;:;:;:;:;.;:;.;:;:;.;::-:·=·=·::;:;:;:;:;:;::::::::::::::::::::::::::::=:=::;:;:;:;:;:;:;:;:;:;:;:;:;:;:;::=:=::::;::::::::::::::;~= ~~~j by MIKE AFFINITO . ~~~~ COFFEEHOliSES Nov. 22: Fennig's All Star String Band, count r:- dancc, Eighth Step Cotfcehou~e, I rinity Methodi~t Church. !.ark and Lancaster Sts .. Albany. 434-1703. Nov. 22-24: Pat Webb, hlue~ and countr~. Calle l.L:na. 47 Phiia St.. Saratoga Spring~. 5X4-1}7XY. lVHSK Nov. 21: Troy Vocal Society, mak choruo.,. I rm \1 mic Hall. I roy. Nov. 22: Schenectady Symphony Orchestra, Anthony Pe11ano. XJO. \1'-b~una H1gh School Aud1toriurn. Halltm\n Rd .. SchenL·t·tau~. 3Y3-7Y6ll. Nov. 22: The Williams Choral Scoiety, Kenneth Roherh. K:30. I homp:-,on \-1mwnal ( ·hapcl. \\tll1a1m College. Nov. 24: The Kinks, X pm. Palace I hcatre. <\linton A\e .. Alhan~. 457-oYD. Nov. 26: Northeastern !\'ew York \'outh Orchestra Concert, 8 pm, Memorial Chapel. l'nion. THEATER :\ov. 21-24: 'The .Journey Back\ Ray Bono. X:JO. \t:v. World I heatre. Schenectad~. 370-0477. Nov. 20-23: '\Done To I>eath\ X: 15. Balhton Spa Middle School. Rt. 67. Ball~ton Spa. Nov. 20-24: \A I· lea in Her 1.-\ar· h:~dcau, X.JO~ Perlormmg Arh Center. S.l!.\.Y. at Albany. 457-X606. Nov. 22-23: '\lie\, ()':\eill. 1-rt.. 4:JO, 7:30. l) pm: Sat. 7:30 & 9 pm. Arena I heatre, l'crlorming Arb Center. s.u.~.Y .. at Albany. h-ec. Nov. 22-24: \South Pacific'\ C \olon1c I nunc Playero.,. hi. and Sat.. X: 15. Su11.. 2: 15. Shakt:r H1_gh School. 7X5-ll24. Latham. Nov.22-24:\Little Me\ Valle~ J>laycro.,. ~:15. Hud~on Valley Comm. Colle!-!~· I ro~. LEC'Tl JU:s Nov. 22: Sir John Wedgwoocl, \'lntenor lkcorat1un in the IXth Ccntur~ ··. X:30. -\ lh;tnl ln~t1tllt<: of H1'>tor~ and Art. 125 Wa~h1ngtlln /\1c .. i\lhan~. Nov. 23: Dr. Ken Murphy, \\IJo You Knm1 \.\hat Y ou\re Breathmg'!\ 3:JO pn1. )'Ia nctanum. :-.chcncctad~ M u~eum. Nov.25:James Sledd, \lnpl1~h lor Sun11al\'. X:15. Lecture Center 2. S.l .'..Y. at AI han~. 457-l1Y2J. ~ov. 23: Greg Lyons: \Tile Adverse Effects of Throating\ A tirade to be delil·ered from the 4th floor of South College at about 3 ~nn. Entertainment in the form of Monty Python comt>dy routines will be provided prior to the lecture. t n ion. ARr Thru Dec. 15: Ira Current, l'IHltograph~. Y am-Y Shelnutt Art (ialler~ Rl'l. 27!)-!.,SOS. Thru Dec. 21: Facultv Shr»w, 1\.t.:ekda\\. 9-5, . i . Art!-. Ct'ntcr. I06Y '\t'\\ ~nltl.tJlU RJ. :\!han~ 7XX5. pm. I he 4.1X- \New England Oils and Watercolors\ \leekda\s. 1}:30-5:30. Sat.. Y-5. Mayfair (jallerie~. 274 Saratl;ga Rd .. 399-3306. Thru Dec. 21: Steve Omler, Photography. \\Cekdays, 9-5. bt lc\d exhih1t an~a. l he Art·s Center, !OnY \cv. Scotland Rd .. Alhan:-. Nicholas Morello, painting;,. h\ Schcnectad1 Art Socit:t~. Mon .. Wed .. hi. Y-12 am·. St. i>aur~ ( 'hurch. Schenectad). Matthew Popielarz, otl patntlll)!'>. Mon .. \\ ed .. ht.. Y-Y. ·luc~ .. I hur> .. Sat.. ll-5. Schenk (ialicr\. IK20 Central /\\c .. Alhan~. 45h-7.HK. FILMS Nov. 21: \Dawn Patrol\ X pm. Hannanu;, Bleeder I ihrar~. 19 Dme St.. Alban~. 46:'i-14113. l·rcc. Nov.-21: ''My hYorite Wife'\ 7 pm. C\ommun1t~ Room. Saratoga S prmg~ I' u h lie L1 hra r~. Saratoga Sprinp~. 1-ree. Nov. 21: \'Perils From the Planet Minge\ l·la;,h Gordon. n:JO. Arbor Hill Branch I.Jhntr\. SO '.. !.ark St.. Alhan~. 465-1463. hcc. · Nov. 25: Grand Illusion, rUO. audJtonum. St. Jo~eph\ HalL Colle)!c ol St. Rose, Alham. 471-5102. Nov. 22: 8 pm, Film Series Presents \Oedipus Rex\ SS016, Union. Nov. 23-24: \Paper Moon\ 7, 9, 1l pm. SSOI6, Union. Nov. 26: \'Mr. Smith Goes To Washington\ 8. 10 pm, SSOI6, Cnion.

the arp, the it to like is will play oup ·Of the bese the rds, and tem its the so cert It one ad's jdJe ,) st. the t'he a II of is not yed far i iii~! .,., ~~~~ ,•,;.•_ !m .... .... ·~·. ~~~~ ~··· :::: :;:: l ••• ·~ 1:?: i::: };~~ ........ . •, . Page 5 CONCORDJbWSIS, Wednesday, Nov. 20, 1974 ..,..:..:;;.,~_,;.,._..,., -- ........ .,.,......., ____ ,..., ._,_.....,....,..._, __ \\\\'_..........,.. ...... ,..,......,~-~ --- \\\'\\\'\-!'!! ,, ' - . -~,.,-a.~.--......,..,.. ................ _._.-.-,.. .... ~..,. ... -~-----,..- New York, Youth Conc;ert .Aztec Two-Step Crowd The Northeastern New York Youth Orchestra, conducted by Emory Waters, will begin its tenth season with a concert on Tuesday, November 26 i11 Memorial Chapel, Union College Campus. The Program beginning at 8 p.m., will include the Overture to \Die Meistersin'ger\ by Ric!J.:ard Wagner, \Four Norwegian Moods'' by Igor S tra:vJnsky, and Alexander Borodin's Symphony no. 2 in B minor. The 75 members of NENYYO (as it is inf.ormally called) are students from Union College and other colleges. and high schools in the entire Capital District and communities as far away as Gloversville, Amsterdam. and Arlington, Vermont. NENYYO members take part in area All- State and Suburban Council Band and Orchestra and each year many NENYYO members are accepted into the School of Orchestral Studies at SPAC where they study with members of the Philade'lphia Orchestra. Other -Films Continued from Page I tentative winter schedule of twenty plus films included .. Fritz the Cat,\ \Pink Flamingos,\ \Behind the Green Door,\ and \Naughty Nurse\ (.nine minutes). It is ·the committee as a whole which, in the end, is responsible for any resulting reactions or repercussions to any of its movies. With no .policy to guide us, we took full responsibility, and we have c..~ncelled all four films. It is true that nat every member of the . committee felt the obligation to replace these films with others whtch have received an MPAA rating other than X. However, the majority ruled. Specifically, the committee's position is that, while we cannot schedule these films now on the grounds that we do lack sufficient knowledge about which the administration is concerned, we will now explore these areas. On the basis of our findings, we will propose a policy. We will be sending out questionnaires to 3tuqents and faculty members, and we ask that you take them seriously. Also, we will be looking to the various administrative offices for additional input. At the same time, we will include in our study the standards to which film organizations at other colleges 'must conform. It is evident that many issues are involved here. One question with which we are particularly concerned is our liability if students (or others) under seventeen (R) or eighteen (X) are admitted to such films. At this time, we must announce that at ~ny movie rated R, we will have to check I. D.'s. The Film Committee would like to go on record as feeling very strongly about this issue. The Film Committee is student appointed, stud~nt run, student tax funded, and student supported to the extent that our films are chosen respectful of what will draw people from all areas of this campus. And there is no question that X-rated films have, in the past, drawn large crowds repeatedly. At present, we therefore are in agreement that it is unfortunate that we have been requested to take into account factors other thftn student sentiment. Other F.C. members: Howard Epstein, adviser Matt Brief Sue J. Finkelstein Bernard Casey Cary Siegel Jay Heck Nancy Feldman Mason Gomberg · NENYYO members are among the prize winners in e::tch year's Albany League of Arts and Schenectady Symphony Stefan Award Competitions. Several Former NENYYO members now occupy chairs in the Schenectady and Albany Symphonies. The NENYYO's repertory includes standard symphonic, as well as some .less fam.iliar music, such as the Stravinsky work being played in the concert of last spring's c.omplete Egmont Incidental Music by B.eethoven. In addition the NENYYO has given several local first performances of unfamiliar works, and in at least one case, a world premiere. The NENYYO was founded in l965 by Professor W. Edgar Curtis of Union College, a,nd has a-lways served as an integral part in the College's music program. Emory Waters, who be.carne conductor of the orchestra in the fall \of 1973., is an Assistant Professor of music at Union. In addition to working with the NENYYO, Professor Waters' duties include teaching courses in Composition, Music liteT~ture The NY Youth orchestra. photo by Gary Weiser. and Electronic Music. He is an active composer, and also plays horn in the Albany Symphony Orchestra. The November 26th concert is the first of three that the NEN YYO will give this season. The winter concert on March I l will include a performance by the winner of the annual concerto contest held in early February, and the Spring concert on June 3 will include a guest performance hy the Union College Women's Chorus. BY MARC S. JAFFEE If one wanted to generalize about the crowd on Saturday night in Memorial Chapel, one could say with confidence that it was an \Aztec Two\Step crowd.\ This was a bit surpnsmg, considering the fame of Brewer and Shipley in Cotnparison to the relative obscurity of Aztec Two- Step, but it appears that the latter have a big ct~lt following, at least in the tri-city area. This was evidenced by the multitude of strange faces in the crowd; the faces of many non-Union students, who came from all around just to see Aztec Two- Step. Aztec Two-Step didn't let these people down, either. They played a beautiful acoustic set of songs that ranged from funny to philosophical. For those of you who are not familiar with Aztec Two-Step, they are Rex Fowler and Neal Shub:nari. Mgst of the songs they played were written by Rex, who does most of the lead voc;:als, in a voice very reminiscent of Loudon Wainwright H. Neal generally sings backing vocal and harmony and plays a mean lead guitar. They were accompanied on bass guitar by Fred Holman, who was more than adequate. Plagued by problems with the sound system which was n.ot loud enough during their set, they just· played on undaunted and the crowd sang along on almost every song. Some of the highlights of their very successful set included a beautiful love song, \Prisoner\; the very pretty but very male chauvinistic song ••Baking,\ with the refrain \You do the baking and I'll do the making\; and ·a hilarious love song, \Humpty D,umpty,\ about Humpty Dumpty being in love with Cinderella, but getting shot down by her in the end and concluding that \Maybe Humpty Dumpty jumped instead of fell.\ Near the end of the set. they finally got to the song that everyone was waiting for: \The Persecution and Restoration of Dean Moriarty (On The Road)\. This song, which is a tribute of sorts to Jack Kerouac and his book On The Road, is perhaps their best known song due to its commercial success - and if you heard them do it on Saturday night, you can well understand why. Their Whole set was a very enjoyable experience and they appear to be two very_ talented guys. Now if · only I could say that about Brewer and Shipley ... Mike Brewer and Tom Shipley came on the stage after Aztec Two-Step, looking a little wasted. tevfs • DaYe'-s' Mens Shop GlStateSt.- The Film Committee Presents IT...a 8,1111t.AI.' .. PlftiiM •• IIIIPICII The PH •• CT .. III ~a:r~my~P~I.I Winning we IIIII\ , .... , rpnt. _, AP ~ {fti l£!:!1 ~ a•drncunt K:vleose _ ·_ ~ - · Newest Lunch 715 ALBANY ST. ·The oldest lunch ln the area. More than SO years we serve First · Prize hot dogs with the original . famous sauce. Also different speCial dinners everyday. We are ' open 7 days a week - weekend . till 4. Visit Newest Lunch. Good olace to Eat. 72t ALTAMONT AVE. NO DELIVERY CHARGE WITH TWO PIZZAS WE DIJ.IYt:ll. UNTD. MIDNIGHT CaD 374-M~~ '• Brewer and Shipley on stage in the Chapel. photo by Rah Johnsoa and a lot pissed-off, and proceeded to complain about the sound system and monitoring system throughout the next hour of what people laughingly referred to as their set. Actually, I'm not being fair to Mike Brewer, because it was only Tom Shipley who was very noticeably aggravated, while Brewer just tried to· make the best of the situation. At one point during the set, Shipley got sa pissed-off that he called his sound man up on the stage and began tg scream at him about the monitors; and at another point during the set, right after a very uninspiring rendition of .. One Toke Over The Line,\ Shipley began to have a argument with Brewer because he wanted to leave, while Brewer wanted to stay to do \Witchy Tai Tai\ which they. ended up doing along with an encore of \Fifty States of Freedom\. One could not help but get the impression that they did not want to be here at Union ~ and that they couldn't wait to get the hell out of here. Sometimes, I must admit, I feel the same way - but when you're getting a few grand to perform for people~ you sure as hell shouldn'_t let it show. Their performance can be summed up in one word: uninspiring. They have very little stage presence, and had no rapport with, the audience .at all on Saturday night. This fact coupled with the knowle<jge that except for two songs they haven't updated their act in four years,. made for a very poor concert. The high point in their very low concert was a rendition of Yankee Lady, a beautiful love song written by Jesse Winc·hester, \one of our prisoners of war in Canada.\ Oh yes, did you know that they're still using the same jokes between' songs that they ·used four years ago? To sum up, I believe that Brewer and Shipley bombed. In all fairness, it wasn't entirely their fault, but partly the fault of their ~ound crew who.could not get the monitors working properly. The night was not a total loss. though thanks to Rex Fowler and Neal Shulman, commonly known as Aztec Two-Step. They gave a super-fine performance and thereby succeeded in saving the evening from being a total disaster. SHOP ON JAY STREET For Your Mind Body Soul THE OPEN DOOR BOOK SHOP THl COUNTRY KITCHEN THE OTHER SIDE OF ,TODAY 135, 136, 137 Jay Street Open Tues.-Sats. Da-re's Mens Sllop $.State St. Aztec Two-Step did the job. photo by Rah Johnson.

the uite the g it to like )[m is on of th: 1nd the its the so art. . It ime 11. pos een l st. the ails unt a II of is not far Page 5 CONCORDJENSJS, Wednesday, Nov. 20, 1974 -~:.....---~---~~~~-~--~~-~---·- ~---- -··-·-·~-~--· . -·-. ~ ....... - .. --··· -- New York Youth Concert Aztec Two-Step Crowd !\he Northeastern New York Youth Orchestra, conducted by Emory Waters, will begin its tenth season with a concert on Tuesday, :'\: ovember 26 in Memorial Chapel, Union CoHege Campus. l he Program beginning at 8 p.m., will include the Overture to \Die Meistersinger\ by Richard Wagner, \Four :'lorwegian Moods\ by Igor Stravinsky. and Alexander Horodin's Symphony no. 2 in B minor. l he 75 members of :'-IENYYO {as it is informally called) are ~tudents from Union College a-nd other colleges and high schools in the entire Capital District and C<Jmmunities as far away as (iloversville, Amsterdam. and Arlington, Vermont. :'IE:\YYO members take part in area All- State and Suburban Council Band and On.:he~tra and eal:h \car many :\E:'IYYO members ~re accepted into the School of Orchestral Studies at SPAC where they study with members of the Philadelphia Orchestra. Other .Films Continued from Page I tentative winter schedule of twenty plus films included \Fritz the Cat,\ \Pink Flamingos,\ \Behind the Green Door,\ and \Naughty Nurse\ (nine minutes). It is the committee as a whole which, in the end, is responsible for any resulting reactions or repercussions to any of its movies. With no ~JO!icy to guide us, we took full responsibility, and we have C..\ncelkd all four films. It is true that not ev.::ry member of the committee felt the obligation to replace these films with others which have received an MPAA rating other than X. However, the majority ruled. Specifically, the committee's position is that, while we cannot schedule these films now on the grounds that we do lack sufficient knowledge about which the administration is concerned, we will now explore these areas. On the basis of our findings, we will propose a policy. We will be sending out questionnaires to 3tudents and faculty members, and we ask that you take them seriously. Also, we will be looking to the various administrative offices for additional input. At the same time, we will include in our study the standards to which film organizations at other colleges must conform. It is evident that many issues are involved here. One question with which we are particularly concerned is our liability if students (or others) under seventeen ( R) or eighteen (X) are admitted to such films. At this time, we must announce that at any movie rated R, we will have to check I. D.'s. The Film Committee would like to go on record as feeling \ery strongly about this issue. The him Committee is student appointed. student run. student tax funded, and student ... upported to the extent that our films are chosen respectful of what v. ill draw people !rom all areas of this cam pus. And there is no question that X-rated films have. in the past. drawn large !.:rowds repeatedly. At present, we therefore are in agreement that it is unfortunate that we have been requested to take into account factors other than student sentiment. Other F. C. members: Howard Epstein. adviser Matt Brief Sue J. Finkelstein Bernard Casey Cary Siegel Jay Heck Nancy Feldman Mason Gomberg \ ENYYO members are among the prize winners in each year's Albany League of Arts and Schenectady Symphony Stefan Award Competitions. Several former ~E:-JYYO members now occ11py chairs in the Schenectady and Albany SymphoNies. Ihe ;'\ENYYO's repertory l'l'lcll!ldes standard symphonic. as \lei! as some less familiar music. ~uch as the Stravinsky work heing played in the concert of last ~pring's complete Egmont Incidental Music hy Beethoven. In addition the 'E:'\YYO has gl\ en several local first performances of unfamiliar 11 orks, and in at least o!'le case. a 11 orld premiere. I he :'\E:'IYYO wa~ founded in 1965 hy Professor W. Edgar Curtis of l'nion College. a.Ad has <thla) s served as an integral part 1n the College\ music program. Emory Waters, who became conductor of the orchestra in the laH of 1973, is an Assistant f>rofessor of music at Union. In addition to working with the \El\iYYO. Professor Waters' duties include teaching courses in CompositioR, Music Literature The NY Youth orchestra. photo by Gary Weiser. and Electronic Music. He is an active composer, and also plays horn in the Albany Symphony Orchestra. I he 1\iovember 26th concert is the first of three that the :'\ENYYO will give this season. I he winter concert on March II will include a performance by the v. inner of the annual concerto contest held in early February, and the Spring concert on June 3 v.ill include a guest performance hy the Union College Women's ('horus. BY MARC S. JAFFEE If one wanted to generali1e about the crowd on Saturday night in Memorial Chapel, one could say wi·th confidence that it v.as an \Attec Two-Step crowd.\ I hi~ \\as a hit ~tuprising, comidering the fame of Brewer and Shipley il'l comparison to the relative obscurity of Aztec Two- Step. but it appears that the latter have a big cwlt following. at least in the tri-city area. Thi~ was evidenced by the multitude of ... trange laces in the crowd; the laces of many non-Union ~tudcnts. who came from all around just to see At tee Two- Step. :\ttec lwo-Step didn't let these people down. either. I hey played a heautiful acou~tic set of 'ongs that ranged from Iunny to philn,uphil:al. I· or thu'c of :. ou \\ hu arc not familiar v. ith At t.:c l\\u-Stcp. tht:y arc R.:;-. lov.ler and Neal Shulman. Most of the songs they played were written by Rex, who does most of the lead vocals, in a voice very reminiscent of Loudon Wainwright II. Neal generally sings backing vocal and harmony and plays a mean lead guitar. They were accompanied on bass guitar by Fred Holman. who was more than adequate. Plagued by problems with the sound system which was not loud enough during their set, they just played on undaunted and the crowd sang along on almost every song. Some of the highlights of their very successful set included a beautiful love song, \Prisoner\; the very pretty but very male chauvinistic song \Baking with the refrain \You do the baking and I'll do the making\; and a hilarious love song, \Humpty Dumpty,\ about Humpty Dumpty being in love with Cinderella. but getting shot down hy her in the end and concluding that \Maybe Humpty Dumpty jumped instead of felL\ Near the end of the set, they finally got to the song that everyone was waiting for: \The Persecution and Restoration of Dean Moriarty (On The Road)\. This song, which is a tribute of sorts to Jack Kerouac and his book On The Road, is perhaps their best known song due to its commercial success - and if you heard them do it on Saturday night, you can well understand why. Their whole set was a very enjoyable experience and they appear to be two very talented guys. Now if only I could say that about Brewer and Shipley ... Mike Brewer and Tom Shipley came on the stage after Aztec rwo-Step. looking a little wasted . . .Levrs . ' DaYe's' Mens Shop 453 State St.- The Film Committee Presents ITAM._.I!.£1.' ... Pla.'ftiiM.Aid.TICII The PM8.CTI8ll cademr,., •£ ... • ward r..- ... ~:innin!( ..... Ill\ film · Newest Lunch 715 ALBANY ST. The oldest luneh in the area. More than SO years we serve First Prize hot dogs with the odginal famous sauee. Also different special dinners everyday. We are open 7 days 11 week - weekend till 4. Visit Newest Lunch. Good ulace to Eat. l,,rtnE ~?~ ~~~\ES'' qz 1 '4t P'merit 41 721 ALTAMONT A\'E. NO DELTVERY CHARGE WITH TWO PIZZAS WI: DEU¥ t:ll UNTIL MIDNIGHT Ca037~ Brewer and Shipley on stage in the Chapel. photo hy Rah Johnson and a lot pissed-off. and proceeded to complain about the sound svstem and monitoring system throughout the next hour of what people laughingly referred to as their set. Actually. I'm not being fair to Mike Brewer, because it was only Tom Shipley who was very noticeably aggravated, while Brewer just tried to make the best of the situation. At one point during the set, Ship ley got so pissed-off that he called his sound man up on the stage and began to scream at him about the monitors; and at another point during the set, right after a very uninspiring rendition of \One Toke Over The Line.\ Shipley began to have a argument with Brewer because he wanted to leave, while Brewer wanted to stay to do \Witchy Tai Tai\ v.hich they ended up doing along ~ith an encore of \Fifty States of 1-reedom\. One could not help but get the impression that they did not want to be here at Union and that thev couldn't wait to get the hell. out of here. Sometimes, I must admit, I feel the same way - but when you're getting a few grand to perform for people. you sure as hell shouldn't let it show. Their performance can be summed up in one word: uninspiring. They have very little stage presence. and had no rapport with. the audience at all on Saturday night. This fact coupled with the knowle~gc that except for two songs they haven't updated their act in four years,. made for a very poor concert. The high point in their very low concert was a rendition of Yankee Ladv. a beautiful love song v.ritten by Jesse Winchester. \one of our prisoners of war tn Canada.\ Oh yes, did you kno\1 that tht•y're still using the same Jokes between songs that they used four years ago'! I o sum up, I believe that Brewer and Shipley born bed. l n all fairness, it wasn't entirely their fault. but partly the fault of their ~ou nd ere\\ who could not get the monitors working properly. The night was not a total loss. though thanks to Rex hm·Ier and '\cal Shulman, C(lmmonly known as Attec l\wo-Step. They gave a super-fine performance and thereb) succeeded in saving the evening from being a total disaster. SHOP ON JAY STREET For Your Mind Body Soul THE OPEN DOOR BOOK SHOP THl COUNTRY KITCHEN THE OTHER SIDE OF .TODAY !35, 136, 137 Jay Street Oper1 Tues.-Sats. Da-ve's Mens Sbop 453 State St. Aztec Two-Step did thejvh. photo by Rah Johnson.

CONCO,RDIENSIS,· Wednesday~ Nov .. 20, 1974. .... <j;' • 't:'. ~ __ , ' . ~~~fiNALS SCHEDULE~,· ~~·:.:'~ (IMPORTANT - This exam schedule is for regular, day undergraduate courses. A separate schedule for \Evening Division\ courses will be announced, .and students in \Section 51 or 52~' courses should be alert for the announcement of the - . . -- - ' - -- ' - exam time for those courses.) Conflicts in e\aminations should be reported tu Mr.s. De Groff in the Office of the Registrar not later than Monday, December 2, 1974. MONDAY, DECEMBER 9 9:00-U:OO A.M. Comp. Ed. 57 (The N'ature of Mathematics). - HU 115 - Prof. Gillette Econonties 10 (Elementary Economics) Sec. 1 - SS 113 - Prof. Phaup Economics 131 (Microeconomic Analysis) - SS ll2 -· Prof. Kenney Economics 132 (Labor and Industrial Relations) - SS l 15 - Prof. Prosper Engli~;h 10 (The English Litera-ry Tradition: Medieval and Renaissance) - H U 014 - ·Prof. Caldwell English 167 (Modern Drama) ~ H U 116 - Prof. Ullmann History 12 (Jacksonian America, 1812-1840)- SS 014- Prof. Nye History 35 {Europe in the Early Modern Era) -. . SS 0 I 0 -' Prof. Hansen History 167 (The Role of Business in lJ .S.-Latin American Relations) - SS 012 - Prof. Bristol Chinese 10 (Basic Chinese I) - H U 119 - Prof. Woo French 10 ,(Basic French l) ~ HU 110 - Prof. Le Clerc German 10 (Basic German I) -· HU ll2 -· . Prof. Warde Russian 10 (Basic Russian I) - HU 016 - Mrs. Jern}koff Spanish 10 (Basic Spanish l) -· HU 117 -. Mrs. Vinick Political Science 162 (Judicial System) - HU 114 - Prof. Daniels Statistics 10 (Introduction to Statistics)- NW 116 -. Mr. S. Schmidt Accounting 10 (Principles of Managerial Accounting) - BH 20 I - M·r. Kauth Biology 13 (Biology of Plants - Core Ill) - BU . 204- Prof. Tobiessen Biology 14 (Biology of Animals - Core I) - SS 016- Profs. Roth and Styles Biology 13D (Comparative Animal Physiology) - B U 109 - Prof. Lambert Mathematics 18 (Introduction to Logic and Set Theory)- BH 108- Mr. G. Reynolds Mathematics 136 (Real Variable Theory I) - BH 203 __., Prof. Maddaus Physics 132 (Electricity and Magnetism I) - SH 219 - Prof. W.. Schwarz Psychology 10 (A First Course in Psychology) Sec. 2- SS U7- Mr. Spring Sec. 3 ... PY 102 - Prof. Berthold Psychology 38 (Child Psychology) - ·py 113 - Prof. Britain Psychology48 (Clinical Psychology I)- PY 213- Prof. Dowling E.S. 26 (Thermodynamics a,nd Heat Transfer) - BH 207- Prof. Ketchum C.E. 45 (Water Resources) (For Non-Civil Engineering Majors)~ BU 300 - Mr. Snow MONDAY, DECEMBER 9 2:00~4:00 P.M. Comp, Ed. 129 (Philosophy and Existential Literature) - H 0 114 ~ Mr. Elliston Philosophy lS (Philosophy and Existential Literature)- HU Il4- Mr. Elliston Political Science 10 (Comparative Political AnalySis)-·· SS 115 -~Prof. Board {Sec. I & 2) Chemistry lZ5 (Radiation and Radio Isotopes in Science and Engineering) - BU 109 - Profs. Weick and Pilcher Physies 13 (Introduction to Physics U) (For Biology. Science. Humanities and Social Science) Sec. l - BH 20S ~ Prof. Lewis Sec. 2- SH 106- Prof. Schick Ph~sic:s 125 (Radiation and Radio· Isotopes in Science and Engineering) - BU 1·09 PI:\of$ •. Pilcher and Weick E.S. H (Resistive Circuits) . Sec. l -· B'H 20.1 ~ Prof. lngvarsson Sec. 2 -· SH UO - Prof. Russ E.S. 28 (Introduction :to Semiconductor De\/ices and Circuits) Sec. I -. BH 203 -·Prof. Galantowicz S.ec. 2 -. SH lOO ·-·Mr. Chang. 'I.E, 8() (Transportation Engineering) -. SH 101 - Prof. M'ittal . C.S. U (FORTRAN Programming) :.._ BH'· 104 ~ - Mr. Wortg TUESDAY, DECEMBER 10 ., . 9.:00•11:00 A.M. F.):. 29 (Philosophical Feminisnt) - H U 016 - Ms .. Vetterling · Comp. Ed. U3 (ME>dern Jewish ,History) ...,._. SS 113 -Prof. Berk Cornp. Ed. 133 (Japanese Political Behavior) - SS. 012- Prof. Thurston · Greek 1:0 (Principles of Greek)-. · HU 119 -.. ,Prof. Testroet -:, Economies 10 (Elementary Economics) Sec. 2 - BU 204 - Prof. Prosper Economics 11 (Elementary Economics) -· SS 117 -Ms. Kent Economics 139 .(P]!blic Hna,nce) - SS 010 -Prof. Lurie .Economics 147 (EconO'mics of Urban Prob,lems) - . SS 014 -·Prof, Kenney English 165 (Modern British and American Poetry) - H U 014 - Prof. Mansfield Hist~ry 14 (Emergence of' Modern America)- SS ll.2 -. Prof. Jonas History 122 (American Constitutional and Legal History)-. SS 115 - .. · Prof. N. Allen History 187 (Modern Jew.ish History) ~ SS 113 - Prof. Berk ·- Fren~h 131 (A General View of French Literature JJ - HU 112-. Prof. LeClerc . French 146 (Entre Les Deux Guerres) .- HU ·H 6 - Prof: Robert$ ' · German 131 (Goethe's Faust)-· HU ilO -· Prof. Warde ·. German 141 (Die Goethezeit) - H U 110 ~ Prof. Warde Spanish 130 (Readings in Contemporary Spanish and Spanish American Literature) - H U H 7 -· Prof. Riggio . , . · Political Science· 144 (Japanese Political Behavior) -· SS 012 - Prof. Thurston Political Science 174 (The Political Campaign in America) - H U 115 -· Prof. Tidmarch Sociology 10 (Introduction to Sociology) Sec. 2 -· HU 114 -.· · Mr. Carlile Sociology 22 (Social Problents and Social Policy)- BH 106 -· Mt. Weiner · Biology 3Z (Comparative Vertebrate Anatomy') -· SS 016 - Prof. Butterstein Biology 54 (Chordate Development) -· BH 2()7 - Prof. Rappaport Chemistry 118 (Inorganic Chemistry ll) - BU W6 - Prof. Scaife Mathematics 101 (Advanced Calculus for Engineers) - BH 205 - Prof. W. Stone Physics 13 (Introduction to Physics ll) {F'or Physical Science and Engineering) - BH 201 -· Prof. Jones Physies 15 (Principles of Modern Physics I) - SH 219 - Prof. Pilcher . Physics 134 (Physical Optics)-. NW 222 -· Prof. C. Swartz Psychology 10 (A First Course in Psychology) .~Sec. 4 -· PY 1 02 ~ Prof. Calabria Psychology 24 (Social Psychology) - PY 113 -· Prof. Newman :E.s. 22 (Science 6f Engineering Materials) - SH 110 - Prof. Milillo C.E. 41 (Legal Aspects of Engineering) - BU 109 ,..... Prof. Harlow . ' TUESDA \:', DECEMBE·R 10 2:00-4:00 P.M. Music 10 (lntrod,uction to 'Music) - AB 20! - Prof. Wilson

e. )[ p we s as jay a a for as the red at be of vet ing of a as of for in in the [t hat lS a !S 108 CONCORD!QNSIS, ~e4nesday 1 Nol!. .. Z.0.,./974 .. Page 7 Econ~mics 10 (Elementary Economics) Sec. 4 ~ SS ll3 ~ Prof, Pha·up 'JEcQnornh:s 143 CEconmnic Growth and Development)-· · SS 112~...- Prof. Kershner English 126 (Ame~ica11· Literature from th'e Civil War to World \}'ar 1) -·. HU J:l6- Prof. Hagen · History 73 (East Asian Civilizati()il -. China and Japan)-. SS 012 -· Prof. Thurston Hebrew 10 (Basic Hebrew 1)- HU 112- Mr\ Katz l'hilosopby U (Philosophical Problems)-. HU JJS ..,..... Profs. Enteman and Ludwig Phiiosopby 4.6 (Mysticism ~nd Morality)-. HU ll4 . ...,._ .Prof .. Danto · . Sociology·t.Oc( Introduction _to ·sociology) Sec, I -• SS 117-- Prof, Gracey E;S. 30 (Mech~U1ics Qf Deformable Solids) Sec. 1 - SH ll 0 -. · .· Prof. Panlilio Sec:. 2 .,.., au l09i .;,...,. Prof. H ibbelet C.S. 10 (Introduction tQ Computer ~cience). .- RH .~- 207 - .. · Mr. Wong WEDNES0-4 Y, P.E.CEMBER 11 9:00-11:00. A.M. . . F.E. 17 (Revolution in Modern Latin America) _,.. . · HU 116- Prof. Bristol F.:E. 20 (The First World War)-. BH 104 -· .· Pmf. Hansen . . F.E. 22 (Freshman Seminar in Sociology) - H U .112 - Mr. Weiner F-.E. 28 (Self, Sex and Dissent} - BH 203 - Mr. Eliiston F.E. 65 (Introduction to C()rtlputer Programming) Sec, 1 -· BI-l 108 -. Prof. Stelmack Sec. 2 -. BU 100 -· Mr. Mason F.E. 68 (Electric Power and Future Energy Crisis) · -· · .B U 109 - Prof. lngvarsson Comp. Ed. ~6 (The Nature and Functions <>1' Law.) -· SS 115- Prof. N. Allen Comp. Ed. 56· (How Things Work). - BU 204 ~ Prof. Lewis Comp. Ed. 67 (Computer Languages)- BH .108 - Prof. Stelmack ·· ~~o,l_lo~ics l ~ .·~ Ele~enta~Y.. E,con.Q_rph:s} .. , Sec. 3- SS 113--Mr .. B. Reynolds Economics 134 (Financial Analysis) - SS 112 - Ms. Kent His~ory 48 (History of Modern Britain: 1688 to the Present)-· SS 117- Prof. Finkelstein . <;hinese 130 (Modern Chinese l) -· . HU 119- Prof. .Woo Chinese 140 (Modern Expository Chinese I) - HU 119 ___,., Prof. Woo Fl'ench 12 {Basic French L 11) -. H lJ 117 -. Prof. Roberts . . German 12 (Basic German 111)...:.. HU 114 -· Prof. Warde Spanish 12 (Basic Spanish Ill) - HU l I 5 - Mrs. Vinick . Political Science· . _U (The American Political System)~ SS 012 ~Prof. Daniels American Studies JO (Introduction to An1erican Studies)..,... HU 014 ..._Prof. Nye Biology'· 51 (Ecology)-· BH 207- Prof. George Biology 150 (Evolution~ry Biology) - BH 205 ___: Prof. J. Boyer · C-hemistry 40 (Quafititative Chemistry) -·. BU 106 - Prof. Werner Physics Ill (Physical Meterology) -· NW 222 - · Prof. Whtd:sor Psychology 10 (A first Course in Psychology) Sec. 5 -·· PY. 1'13 Sec. 6 -· PY, 213 C.E. 45 (Water Resources) (For Civil Engineering M-ajors)- BH 201 :_ Mt, 8n()W .2:00•4:00 P.M. Latin 137 (Latin Epic)- HV 113 -· Mrs. So.rum 'Philosophy 30 ('Greek Phi.losophy) - HO ti6 - Ms. Vettetling · Chemistry 10 (Fundamental Chert1istry l)· . Sec. 1 -. SS 115 -. Prof. Schaefer Sec. 4 - HU 115- Prof. Sutter Sec. 2 - S$ 115 - Prof. Schaefer Sec. 3 _ aU ·10 9 -· Prof. Hull Sec. 5 -.. H U !15 -· Prof. Sutter Chen;:dstry 30 (Organic Chemistry· t) - Sec. 1 -· llU 204 -· Prof. Sheffer ··sec. 2- HU ~()4 -· Prof. Hull· C.S. 20 (Compiler · Lan;guage and Assemb.ly Language Program-ming) -· B H 102 ~ Prof. G. Williams · c.s. 22 (N-um:berical Methods for· Computers) ·_ BH 104 -· · Deaf.l Craig THURSDAY, DECEMBER 12. 9:00..1 l ;00 A.M.. Comp. Ed. 64 (Great Ideas of Modern Physics) - SS H7 -· Dean Wylen Mathematics 10 (Calculus~) Sec. 6 - BH. 106 -· Prof. Lou~hlin Sec. l -· BH 207 -·. Prof. W. Stone Sec. 7 - BH ;zm -. Prof. Ling · Sec. 2 ·- BH 108 - Prof. Bick Sec. g - SS 1 13 - .. Prof. Reynolds Sec. 3- BU 204 -· Prof. Leach Sec. 9- HU 115- Prof. Fairchild Sec. 4-. BH 207-. Prof. W. Stone Sec. to-SS 115- Prof. Strait . Sec, 5 - BH 205 - Prof. Gillette Sec. 11 - SS 115 -Prof. Strait Mathematics 12 (Calculus.ll) Sec. I ·~ BH 1'04 -- Prof. Tornga Sec. 2 ~- H U 115 -. Prof. Fairchild Mathematics 30 (Ordinary Differential Equations) Sec. 1 - 'BH 201 - Pr<lf. Ling Sec. 2 .-- BU 204 ..,___ Prof. Leach Psychology 30 (theory of Personality) - PY I 02 - Prof. Newman Psychology 61 (Practicutn in Child Study 1) -· PY 213 - Prof. Girdner .E.S. 20 ( Mec:;banics') - SH l 00 - Prof. Panlilio C.E. 42 (Soil Mechanics)- .. BU 300- Prof. Harlow· 2:00 .. 4:00 P.M . F.E. 64 (Weather and Climate)- BU 204 - Mr . D. Stone __ Comp. Ed. 76 (Basic Graphics) - AB 105- Prof. Rosenblum Art 14 (Graphics l). ~ AB 1·05 - Prof. Rosenblum Classics 21 (History of Greece) - SS 016 - Prof. Reece. Latin 10 (Principles of Latin) -- H U 016 - Prof. Reece and Mrs. Sorum Sociology H (Freshman Seminar in Sociology) - SS 110 - Prof. Gracey Biology 15 (Genetics and Evolution - Core IV) - SS 115- Profs. Butzel and J. Boyer Chemistry 152 (Physical Chemistry II)- BU 109- Prof. Sutter Physics 11 (Intr:oduction to Physics l) (For Physical Science and Engineering)- SH 106 -·Prof. Titus .Psychology 10 (A First Course in Psychology) Sec. I - PY 102- P-rot Huntley Psychology 20 (Statistical Metheds in Psychology) -. PY ll3 - Prof. Berthold E.S. 24·(Electric Circuits)- BH 207-- Mr. Chang E.E •. 36 (System Theory U) - NW 116 -. Prof. Poodheart FRIDAY, DECEMBER 13 9:00·11:00 A.M. F.E. 62 (The Urban Transportation Crisis) - SH 110 - Prof. Mittal Comp. Ed. 86 (Law in a Democratic Society) - SS 112 - Mr. Anderson Comp. Ed. 171 (Photography I) - AB I 05 - Prof. Rosenblum Art 17 (Photography 1) - AB 105 ~ Prof. Rosenblum History 13~ (Late Medieval and Renaissance Europe)- SS 117- Prof. N. Allen Spanish 140 (Spanish Literature of the Golden Age) - HU 016- Prof. Riggio Philosophy 65 (Philosophy of Mind) - H U 1 16 - Prof. Ludwig Mathematics 14 (Calculus Ill) Sec. 1 -. BH 20 I -- Prof. Maddaus Sec. 2 - BH 205 -. Prof .. Seiken Sec. 3 -- BH 106 -. Prof. T ornga ,_ ' Psychology SO (Educational Psychology) - PY 213 ~ Prof. Girdner 2:00•4:00 P.M. English 123 (The Modern American Novel) - H U J 17 - Prof. Gado Hebrew 133 (The Hebrew Language in Practical Use)- HU 1 1'0 ~Mr. Katz Philosophy 20 (Classical Logic) - H U J 14 - Prof. Peterson Philosophy 72 (Philosophy of Mathertlatics)- HU 114- Prof .. Peterson Sociology 140 (Communication and Social Structure) - SS 014 ~ Mr. Carlile Mathematics 41 (Linear Algebra I) Sec. I - BH 106 - Prof. Loughlin Sec. 2 - BH 203 ~ Prof. Seiken E.S.lO (Mechanics and Strength of Materials) Sec. I - SH 110 -- Prof. Aubrey Sec. 2 - BU Hl9 ~ Prof. H ibbeler \

k p n . ······ '•'•'• •;t. we s as jay Nas a for Nas the red at ere be of ver ole ing of t a as ngs ose of for ore uld In II the It hat S IS IS lOX CONCORDJENSJS, Wednesday, Nov. 20, 1974 Page 7 ' ~ ' - ', • ' •.' • ' ' ' ' ', ' I \•' • ~~~FINALS SCHEDULE~~~ Economics 10 (Elementary Economics) Sec. 4 - SS 113 - Prof. Phaup Economics 143 (Economic Growth and Development) - SS 1 I 2 - Prof. Kershner English 126 (American Literature from the Civil War to World War I)- HU 116- Prof. Hagen History 73 (East Asian Civilization - China and Japan)- SS 012- Prof. Thurston Hebrew l'O (Basic Hebrew I)- HU 112- Mr. Katz Philosophy 12 (Philosophical Problems) - HU 115 - Profs. Enteman and Ludwig Philosophy 46 (Mysticism and Morality)- HU 114 - Prof. Danto Sociology 10 (Introduction to Sociology) Sec. 1- SS 117- Prof. Gracey E.S. 30 (MechaRics of Deformable Solids) Sec. l - S H I I 0- Prof. Panlilio Sec. 2- BU I09- Prof. Hibbeler C.S. 10 {Introduction to Computer Science) - BH 207- Mr. Wong WEDNESDAY, DECEMBER 11 9:00-11:00 A.M. F.E. 17 (Revolution in Modern Latin America) - H U 116 - Prof. Bristol F.E. 20 (The First World War) - BH 104- Prof. Hansen F .E. 22 (Freshman Seminar in Sociology) - H U 112- Mr. Weiner F.E. 28 (Self, Sex and Dissent) - BH 203 - Mr. Elliston F.E. 65 (Introduction to Computer Programming) Sec. 1 - BH 108 - Prof. Stelmack Sec. 2- BU 100- Mr. Mason F.E. 68 (Electric Power and Future Energy Crisis) - BU 109- Prof. lngvarsson Comp. Ed. 26 (The Nature and Functions of Law) - SS I 15- Prof. N. Allen Comp. Ed. 56 (How Things Work) - BU 204 - Prof. Lewis Comp. Ed. 67 {Computer Languages) - BH 108 - Prof. Stelmack Economics 10 (Elementary Economics) Sec. 3- SS 113 -Mr. B. Reynolds Economics 134 (Financial Analysis) - SS 112 Ms. Kent History 48 (History of Modern Britain: 1688 to the Present)-SS 117- Prof. Finkelstein Chinese 130 (Modern Chinese I)- HU 119- Prof. Woo Chinese 140 (Modern Expository Chinese I)- HU 119- Prof. Woo French 12 (Basic French Ill) - H U I 17 - Prof. Roberts German 12 (Basic German Ill) - HU 114- Prof. Warde Spanish 12 (Basic Spanish Ill) - HU 115 - Mrs. Vinick Political Science 11 (The American Political System) - SS 012- Prof. Daniels American Studies 10 {Introduction to American Studies)- HU 014- Prof. Nye Biology 51 (Ecology)- BH 207 - Prof. George Biology 150 (Evolution~ry Biology) - BH 205 - Prof. J. Boyer Chemistry 40 (Quantitative Chemistry) - BU 106 - Prof. Werner Physics 121 (Physical Meterology) - NW 222 - Prof. Windsor Psychology 10 (A first Course in Psychology) Sec. 5 - PY. 113 Sec. 6- PY. 213 C.E. 45 (Water Resources) (For Civil Engineering Majors)- BH 201 - Mr. Snow 2:00·4:00 P.M. Latin 137 (Latin Epic)- H U 113- Mrs. Sorum Philosophy 30 (Greek Philosophy) - HU 116 Ms. Vetterling Chemistry 10 (Fundamental Chemistry I) Sec. 1 - SS 115- Prof. Schaefer Sec. 4 _ H U 115 _ Prof. Sutter Sec. 2 - SS 115 - Prof. Schaefer Sec. 5 _ H U 115 _ Prof. sutter Sec. 3 - BU ·109 - Prof. Hull ~ Chemistry 30 (Organic Chemistry !) Sec. 1 - BU 204- Prof. Sheffer ··Sec. 2- BU 204- Prof. Hull C.S. 20 (Compiler Language and Assembly Language Programming) - BH 102 - Prof. G. Williams C.S. 22 (Numberical Methods for Computers) BH 104- Dean Craig THURSDAY,DECEMBER12 9:00·11 :00 A.M. Comp. Ed. 64 (Great Ideas of Modern Physics) - SS 117- Dean Wylen Mathematics 10 (Calculus I) Sec. 6 _ BH. 106 - Prof. Loa~hlin Sec. I - BH 2()7- Prof. W. Stone Sec. 7 _ BH 201 -Prof. Ling Sec. 2- BH 108- Prof. Bick Sec. 8- SS 113- Prof. Reynolds Sec. 3- BU 204- Prof. Leach Sec. 9- H U 115- Prof. Fairchild Sec. 4- BH 207- Prof. W. Stone Sec. 10- SS 115- Prof. Strait Sec. 5 - BH 205 - Prof. Gillette Sec. II - SS 115 - Prof. Strait Mathematics 12 (Calculus II) Sec. 1 - BH 104 -·- Prof. Tornga Sec. 2 - HU I 15 - Prof. Fairchila Mathematics 30 (Ordinary Differential Equations) Sec. I - BH 20 I - Prof. Ling Sec. 2- BU 204 -· Prof. Leach Psychology 30 (Theory of Personality) - PY I 02 - Prof. Newman Psychology 62 (Practicum in Child Study l) - PY 213 - Prof. Girdner E.S. 20 (Mechanics)- SH 100- Prof. Panlilio C.E. 42 (Soil Mechanics)- BU 300- Prof. Harlow· 2:00-4:00 P.M. F.E. 64 (Weather and Climate) - BU 204 - Mr. D. Stone Comp. Ed. 76 (Basic Graphics) - AB I 05 - Prof. Rosenblum Art 14 {Graphics I)- AB I OS- Prof. Rosenblum Classics 21 (History of Greece) - SS 016 - Prof. Reece Latin 10 (Principles of Latin) - HU 016 -- Prof. Reece and Mrs. Sorum Sociology 11 {Freshman Seminar in Sociology) - SS 110- Prof. Gracey Biology 15 (Genetics and Evolution - Core IV) - S S 115 - Profs. B utzel and J. Soyer Chemistry 152 (Physical Chemistry II)- BU 109- Prof. Sutter Physics 11 (Introduction to Physics 1) (For Physical Science and Engineering)- SH 106- Prof. Titus Psychology 10 {A First Course in Psychology) Sec. I - PY I 02 - Prof. Huntley Psychology 20 (Statistical Methods in Psychology) - PY 113 - Prof. Berthold E.S. 24 {Electric Circuits)- BH 207- Mr. Chang E.E. 36 (System Theory II) - NW 116 - Prof. Ooodheart FRIDAY, DECEMBER 13 9:00-11:00 A.M. F.E. 62 (The Urban Transportation Crisis) - SH 110- Prof. Mihal Comp. Ed. 86 (Law in a Democratic Society) - SS 112 - Mr. Anderson Comp. Ed. 171 (Photography l) - AB 105 - Prof. Rosenblum Art 17 (Photography l) - AB I 05 - Prof. Rosenblum History 132 (Late Medieval and Renaissance Europe) - SS 117 - Prof. N. Allen Spanish 140 (Spanish Literature of the Golden Age) -- HU 016- Prof. Riggio Philosophy 65 (Philosophy of Mind) - H U 116 - Prof. Ludwig Mathematics 14 (Calculus Ill) Sec. I - BH 20 I - Prof. Maddaus Sec. 2 - BH 205 _ Prof. Seiken Sec. 3 -- BH I 06 - Prof. T ornga Psychology 50 (Educational Psychology) - PY 213 - Prof. Girdner 2:00·4:00 P.M. English 123 (The Modern American Novel) - HU 117 - Prof. Gado Hebrew 133 (The Hebrew Language in Practical Use)- HU 110- Mr. Katz Philosophy 20 (Classical Logic) - H U 114 - Prof. Peterson Philosophy 72 (Philosophy of Mathematics) - H U 114 - Prof. Peterson Sociology 140 (Communication and Social Structure)- SS 014- Mr. Carlile Mathematics 41 (Linear Algebra I) Sec. I - BH 106- Prof. Loughlin Sec. 2- BH 203 - Prof. Seiken E.S. 10 (Mechanics and Strength of Materials) Sec. I - SH 110- Prof. Aubrey Sec. 2- BU 109 - PI'Of. Hibbeler

Barber Speaks by DIANE NELSON On Thursday evening, November 14, James David Harber, chairman of the department of political science a-t Duke University and' one of the foremost political scientists in the country, spoke before a packed crowd in SS 016. Dr. Barber's contributions to the field of political science are many. His hook The Lawrnakt)rs about Connecticut legislators broke new ground in political science. His later book Presidentilll Character established him as the a utherity on presidential style and character. I he title of the lecture he gave was, \Avoiding Disaster - Choosing Presidents After Watergate.\ Barber o,pened his lecture by ~ayi11g the you·ng people of today are a politically despairing genemtion and have little trust in any institution. In relation to this, the presidency is the most peculiar of.o ur political institutions. There are only a vague set of instructions for the president to follow; so the presidencY. is shaped by each man who holds the office. Barber ma~ta~s th~ om ~und~g fathers had the right principles but their procedures were wrong. As a result, the people do not possess mqch of a ho1d upon the president. Mr. Barber stated that historical tides and institutional changes have brought abo1:1t the royalization of the presidency. One important point made was that the men we elect to the presidency are not a random flux of types. Dr. Barber sees certain categories these men fall into. The first one being the Harding type. This type looks like a president is expected ta .look, He possesses almost a maternal feeling about his job; he gives the country a feeling of stability. The second type is called the Coolidge type. This is a president who tries to rise above politics. He is dignified and withdrawn. The fault of this type is he is extremely passive. The problems of the country will not disappear, and this type of presidePt will do nothing about them. The third category is the Hoover type, Lyndon Johnson and Richard Nixon fall into this category. These men are continually striving and struggling; they believe in suffering today for the world of tomorrow. They start out as flexible presideRts and end up · Continued on Page 10 -------- ucol:l shorts Withdrawing? Students planning to take a leave or withdraw at the end of , this term are reminded that they must fill 0 ut the Jlecess ary form in the Dean of Student's Office by December 13, the due date of winter term bills. Failure to preregister, notification of another office or advisor, or a request for a transcript will not be considered notification ·of withdrawal. The penalties for withdrawal after December 13 are significant. Leave notification or withdrawal prior to the deadline results only in deposit forfeiture (see catalog). Nark Smith Dean of Students Saga Survey On a random basis, students are being handed a survey by Saga in order to get some ''feedback\ on the food ~ervice. Some questions asked are '\It's not mom's cooking~ but the food tastes pretty good\ (to be answered on a 5-point scale from always to never} or \The food service employees are courteous and thoughtful\ or ''Saga makes every ·effort to communicate with rne about things that atfect me.\ winners of the two kegs of beer for the dorm and frat that turned out the largest numbers. The list that recorded the turnout was not taken on the first day. Therefore, the kegs will be offered to all at a party in the near future. \ ) American executives may be leaders in sophisticated manage- ment techniques, but often, ·says a Union Col'lege professor, they ate ill-equipped for role$ in multi- national corporations. Not only are many American executives ignorant of any l1;1nguage other than English, but they also often have poor backgrounds in the culture, history and politics of foreign countries, says Prof. Alfred L. Thimm. To remedy such deficiencies, Union College has designed a new international management program that is accepting graduate students for the first time this year. A ·few undergraduates have already enrolled in the program. Prof. Thimm, who guides the program on the graduate level, says two main considerations prompted the formation of the program. \First of all, it has been very difficult for Americans to get into such truly multi-national companies as Phillips, Royal Dutch Shell, and Imperial Chemir.al,\ says Thimm. THE FILM COMMITTEE Presents Mr. Smith Goes to - W ashinglon Tue. 26th at 8 and 10 SSOl6 only 25¢ , ...... ~ ......... ~ ............................. ...........--..\ f As of Monday, November i i II, there will be in effect an ) ) automatic fine of $25 for any ) · : unregistered car. • ,,_,__._._ .. _ .. ___ ··-··-··..J Blood Drive LIBRARY HOURS DURING THANKSGIVING ·Jhe Red Cross Bloodmobile, sponsored by the Steering Committee, came to Union C allege last ThursdaY and Friday. The student response to this cause was a huge success. There were no Wednesday, November 27 8:30a.m.- 5:00p.m. I hursday November 2S CJ1)Sed Friday. November 29 Closed Saturday, November 30 Closed Sunday, December l 6:00p.m. - II :00 p.m. IThc All l\ight Study will remain open when ·the library 1s closed throughout the weekend) -i I Come in and let us lteip you get in the right frame of mind to 1 put the worries of exams and term papers aside for awhile. 1 Go see \Paper l\1~on\ this weekend in SSOl6, But stop in · first at: PETER PAUSE RESTAURANT Moffett's Liquor Store l505VAN VRANKEN AVE. SCliENECTADY, N.Y. 12308 .. ·- I I I l rHStudent Discount' Mon.-Sat. 5:30·7:30 535 NOTT ST. · A fjrm like Royal Dutch Shell, says Thimrit, c~n recruit graduates of European management schools. Students in these schools ate genera.Jly trilingual and well-versed in t.he culture of other countries. \By contrast,\ says Thimm, \Most university business programs here have no language requirement, do not require their students to spend any time a~road, and do not place an,y emphasis on the culture or literature of other countries.\ In Union's international management program, studeqts will be required to spend at least six months abroad and to become reasonably f!1:1ent. in a second language. ·rhimm considers the study abroad one of the most important features of the program. \Students. will not only be improving their fluency in another language,\ he says, \but they also will be studying areas of management in which foreign countries differ significantly from us.\ \For instance,\ he explains, \Germans excel i'n · the areas of cost accourtting, cost engineering, am:l .th(! leg~l aspects of corporate financing. · The Erench are very good at the mathematical aspects of · management and computerization of industries.\' At presen·t, Union's internationa.J ma.nageme·nt program is affiliated with t:he University of M unich'.s Institute of Organizational Sciences (Witte Institute) .and with the Middle East Te<:'hnical university (METU) ill Ankara, Turkey. Competence in German is needed for the Witte program, but at METU, English is the language of .instruction. Faculty <!nd students will be exchanged 'With the two university affiliates on a routine basis. This semester, two students are at Witte, Doi1ald S, Holmes, an associate professor of Administta.tion and Development is in Ankara, and M azhar Husain, an instruct·or at MWTU, holds .a grad liate fellowship at Union. Intellectual Mara.t.hon < ·ontinued from Page l the marathon will bedivided into 5 grqups of 20~ Each group will have ver:y informal disc.ussions concerning what f!lctors they see as influential in determining personality. The discussions will be led by faculty members from schools other than Union. Religion, biology, philosophy and art are among the topics which may conceivably be mentioned as affecting human behavior. The groups will meet all Thursday evening and Friday morning, and the marathon will th@n conclude with a lur.icheon at the Ramada Inn and speeches by the previously mentioned keynote speakers. All Union faculty members will be invited to attend the luncheon. Student InvoiYement The goal of the marathon is to help create an atmosphere of intellectual curiosity which many find Jacking at Union. It is hoped that the group discussions will help participants gain a (u!ler understanding of the causes behind their own actions and those of others. By involving so many students. the marathon hopes to serve as a means of '}i; We Honor the .... American Express Card bringing people with varying backgrounds and perceptions together. All students will be invited to.~ttend, and a charge of $3.50, ancl a commitment to think, Jeam, and listen, is all that is being ask.ed of the participants. The marathon is the brainchild of Professor N icho·Js (Political Science) a.nd Professor Finkel- stein (Hist~>ry), tlte faculty officers to Phi Beta Kappa. An executive committee <if four students, Matt Brief, Judy De in, lee R imsky and Don Sos1ek, and the two professors bave been planning the event. Other students have .been chosen to help lead the discussions. The groups will meet in various rooms around campus,. and snacb> and d·rinks will be served. Applications for the marathon will be available next term. All student~ lifE urged to apply. Being a member o( Phi Beta Kappa is not a prerequisite. The marathon will be an ex:cellent opportunity to meet others, explore different outlooks as to what affects personality .. and to do all the creative thinking of which everyone is capable. .It . sm.o &-Bnw . OOLOI\IIIl Wolf Road Park •

Barber Speaks by DIANE NELSON On lh ursday evening, '\ovemher 14, James David Harber, chairman of the department of political science at I )ukc t:nivcrsity and one of the foremost rolitical scientists in the country, spoke before a packed crowd in SS 016. Dr. Harber's contributions to the field of political science are many. His hook The Lawmakers about Connecticut legislators broke nev.: ~round in political science. His Ia tcr book Presidential Character established him as the authority on rroidential style and character. I he title.: of the lecture he ga\e \\a~. \A\oiding Disa~ter C\hoo~1ng Prl.'~idenb After Watcrga te .\ Ha1 her opened hi~ kc.:ture b~ ~:1yiqg the ~ oung pl.'ople ol toda~ die <1 politil:<III~ de~pai1 ing gull.' I<! tion and ha \l: littk: tru~t in an~ in~titution. In 1elation to thi~. tlu; p1c~idoll:~ i> the mo~t pcculiar of our political m~titutiom. I here are on!~ a 'agut.: ,ct <>f in,truc.:tion' lo1 tht.: president to folio\\; ;,o the presidency is ;,haped by each man \1 ho holds the office. Barber maintains that our founding Ia thers had the right principles Withdrawing? Students planning to take a leave or withdraw at the end of this term are reminded that they must fill o\ltt the necessary lorm in the Dean of Student's Office by December 13. the due date of winter term bills. f-ailure to preregister. notification of another office or advisor. or a request for a transcript will not be considered notification of withdrawal. The penalties for withdrawal after December 13 are significant. Leave notification or withdrawal prior to the deadline results only in deposit forfeiture (see catalog). Mark Smith Dean of Students Saga Survey On a random basis, students are being handed a survey by Saga in order to get some \feedback\ on the food service. Some questions asked are \It's not mom's cooking, but the lood tastes pretty good\ (to be answered on a 5-point scale !rom always to never) or \The food service employees are courteous and thoughtful\ or ''Saga makes every effort to communicate with me about things that affect me.\ Blood Drive I he Red c·ross Bloodmobile. sponsored by the Steering Committee. came to I nion College last I hursday ;J nd I rtd a\. I he 'tudent rt.:,poml: to this came \las a huge ,ucce,s. I here v.:ere no hut their procedmes were wnmg. /\~ a result, the people do not possess much nf a hold upon the president. Mr. Harber stated that historical tides and institutional changes have brought ahowt the royalin1tion of the presidency. One important point made was that the men we elect to the presidency are not a random flux of types. Dr. Barber sees certain categories these men fall into. The liN one being the Harding type. I his type I oo ks like a pres ide nt is expected to look. He possesses almost a maternal feeling about his job; he gives the country a leeling of stability. I he second t~pl' is called the Coolidge type. I his is a president who tries to rise a bm e politics. He is dignified and withdrawn. I he fault of this t.\ pc is he is extremely passive. I he problems of the country will rwt disappear. and this type of rrcsidert will dn nothing about them I he third category is the H oO\ cr type. lyndon .I oh nson ;1nd Richard '\ixnn fall into this l·atq!Pr~. lhe-;c men arc eontinually '>tfi\Ing and 'truggling; they believe in ,uffering today for the world of tomorrow. I hey start out as llexible presidents and end up Continued on Page J 0 ucoll shorts \1 inners of the two kegs of beer lor the dorm and frat that turned out the largest numbers. The list that recorded the turnout was not taken on the first day. I herefore, the kegs will be offered to all at a party in the near future. r ·. ------ I J l ! American cxecu,tivcs may be leaden in snphis,ticated manage- ment techniques, but often, says a l~nion College professor, they are ill-equipped for roles in multi- national corporations. :\ot only are many American executives ignorant of any lar:~guage other tl~an English. but they also often have poor backgrounds in the culture, history and politics of foreign countries, says Prof. Alfred L. I himm. I o remedy such deficiencies, l nion College has designed a ne\1 International management program that 1~ acct:pting graduate students for the fint t1mc thi~ ~car. A fe\1 undergraduates ha~c <dread~ enrolled in the program. l'rof. I hirnm, v;ho guide~ tht.: prugr<Hll llfl tht.: graduate le\el, ~a~~ t\\o main comidcrations prompted the formation of thc program. \l ir~t of a II. it has been \ er~ dirticult for American~ to gt:t into 'uch truly multi-national companies as Phillips, Royal Dutch Shell, and Imperial C\hemir.al says lhimm. THE FILM COMMITTEE Presents Mr. Smith Goes to Washington Tue. 26th at 8 and 10 SS016 only 25¢ , ...... ~ .............. ....__. ................... ~~'1 l As of Monday, November l i J I, there will be in effect an ; j automatic fine of $25 for any ' = unregistered car. • ~ ....................................... ~ ........ ,,l LIBRARY HOURS DURING THANKSGIVING Wednesday. :\m,ember 27 X:JO a.m.-5:00p.m. l hursday 'member 2X C!.>~ed !·riday. :\ovember 29 Clo~ed Saturday. \member 30 Clo~ed '\>unda\. December l 6:00 p.m.- II :00 p.m. t I he All '\i,l!ht Stud~ \Ill! remain open \\hen the l1brar~ 1;, L·Jo..,ed throu).!lwut the \1 cckend) - I Come in and let us help you get in the right frame of mind to put the worries of exams and term papers aside for awhile. Go see \Paper Moon\ this weekend in SSOI6, but stop in first at: PETER PAUSE RESTAURANT Moffett's Liquor Store \Student Discount' Mon.-Sat. 5:30-7:30 535 NOTT ST. · 1505 VAN VRANKEN AVE. SCHENECTADY, N.Y. 12308 - -- ---- A firm like Royal D11tch Shell, ~ays Thimm, cam recruit gradua:tes of European management schools. Students im these schools are generally trHingual and v.:ell-versed ir:~ the culture of other countries. \By contrast,\ says Thimm. \Most university business programs here have no language requirement. do not require their ~tudents to spend any time abroad. and do not place any emphasis on the culture or literature of other countries.\ In cnion's international management program, students \1 ill he required to spend at least 'ix months abroad and to become rcasona b ly fluent in a second Ia nguage. I hirnm con~ider~ the ~tudy ahfl)ad one of the mu~t important feature~ of tht: program. \Studtnb \'ill not on!) he unpro\ ing their fluency In d not her language,\ he says. \but the) abo v.. ill be ~tudying area:- of management in \'hich foreign countries differ ~ignificantly from ll ~- .. \For instance.\ he explains. \Germans excel in' the areas of Page8 cost accounting, cost engineering, and the legal aspects of corporate financing. The French are very good at the mathematical aspects of management and computerit:ation of industries.\ At prese1~t, Union's international management program is affiliated with the ll niversity of Munich's Institute of Organizational Sciences (Witte Institute) and with the Middle Fast Technical university (METU) in Ankara, Turkey. Competence in German is needed for the Witte program, but at M ETLI. English is the language of instruction. f-aculty and students will he L'xchanged with the two university affiliates on a routine basis. This 'emester, two students are at Witte. Donald S. Holmes. an a..,sociate professor of Administration and Development 1s in Ankara, and Ma1har Husain. an instructor at !\1WTl 1 , holds a graduate fellow~hip at l :nion. Intellectual Marathon ( (Jntinued from Page I the marathon will be divided into 5 groups of 20. Each group will have very informal discussions concerning what factors they see as influential in determining personality. The discussions will be led bj faculty members from schools other than Union. Religion, biology, philosophy and art are among the topics which may conceivably be mentioned as affecting human behavior. The groups will meet all Thursday evening and Friday morning, and the marathon will then conclude with a luncheon at the Ramada Inn and speeches by the previously mentioned keynote speakers. All Union faculty members will be invited to attend the luncheon. Student Involvement The goal of the marathon is to help create an atmosphere of intellectual curiosity which many find lacking at Union. It is hoped that the group discussions will help participants gain a fuller understanding of the causes he hind their own actions and those of others. Hy involving so many students. the marathon hopes to ~erve as a means of 1if We Honor the • American Express Card bringing people with varying backgrounds and perceptions together. All students will be invited to attend, and a charge of $3.50, and a commitment to think, learn, and listen, is all that is being asked of the participants. !he marathon is the brainchild of Professor Nichols (Political Science) and Professor Finkel- stein (His tory). the faculty officers to Phi Heta Kappa. An executive committee of four students, Matt Brief. Judy Dein, Lee Rimsky and Don Sostek, and the two professors have been planning the event. Other students have been chosen to help lead the discussions. The groups will meet in various rooms around campus, and snacks and drinks will be served. Applications for the marathon will be available next term. All students are urged to apply. Being a member of Phi Beta Kappa is not a prerequisite. The marathon will be an excellent opportunity to meet others. explore different outlooks as to what affects personality, and to do all the creative thinking of which everyone is capable. c:featuring ... HfJT-NtJll MON. thru SAT. at Stalk &Brmu COLONIE Wolf Boad Park •

nd t:he itte is the be at an of at be to hat I<ei- the the be All is the Les \Finge/'s\' Goldstein plays the mandolin. Dave Gordon tosses tennis halls; YOU JUST ANSWERED A HELP WANTED AD FOR YOUR OWN JOB. MAYBE WHAT YOU .NEEIUS A MAXIMUS SUPER •. · Ma••rnus Super Beer F )( Matt Bte'w~r;g Co Utlto5. N V Nov. 20, 1974 Page9 Nu? UBU! To my loyal supporters: I am continuing my efforts to rid the world of the· menace of UBU; RATED X, but the situation on the home. front is worsening; l.n order to prevent my daughter's. contamination by the moral pollution rampant on the Union College .campus, I have withdrawn her from the freshman class and locked her in her room with only Rebecca of Sunny brook Farm to read. My wife is suing me for divorce and has run off with Eliot Brastermart! The stock market is plummeting, my home is disintegrating, my life is crumbling in my hands! UBU is destroying me! But l will persevere. Ubu to the rightofme! Ub:u to·the leftofme! No! You can't do this to me - it won't work. rm on to your little game .. :It's a plot. Fir~t they fluoridate your water, and the-n they move next dcwr. Soon they're floodif.lg the market with cheap Japanese radios and institutiag wage and price c ntrols! Well, I'll fight you in the trenches, I'll fight you on the home front, I'll fight you in the shopping centers and back alleys and supermarkets and roUeramas a.rtd pickle factories - America will endure! Sincerely yours, C. Owe11 Biggs HI '29 ··············- Dear llbu, Thanks for everything. I never could ·have pushed o.ld Biggsy over the brink without you. Marilyn and I are very happy, and are having a wonderful time here in the Bahamas. Best of luck in all your endeavors, and thank you 'one~ again. Your friend, Eliot Brasterman '29 Ubu beware! My father will be <. venged! C.. Owen Biggs IV '53 OKAY!! ENOllGH IS ENOUGH! We have been putting you on. t:Bu is a great play, and you ean be a great audience! COME SEE US U, AT THE CABARET Thursday, Nov. 21 at 9 pm & ll pm Friday & Saturday Nov. 22 & 23 at 8 pm L-R: Jerry Coleman, Lee Bloomrosen, Karen Bernhardt and Michael Sherer practice for U BU. 1:: ~ ·~ •• TUESDAY. AT CABARET INCIDENTAL Mary Vetterling .......................... : ....................................... , .................. Piano Karen Williams ............................................................................... Recorder Ed Craig .......................................................................................... Trumpet MAIN SHOWS Norm Walbek & ·~. Singing & Guitar Charlie Tidmarch ......... :····················· .. ··············· .. ···· ....... .Songs of the '50~s Susanna Miller ................................................. , ....... Mistress of Ceremonies , 'Fhe proceeds of Tuesday night's Cabaret will go to the Union College Day Care Center - a good show for a good cause! For wading through Crowds of Admirers SANDLER of Boston makes this knee-high bo.ot with .a crepe sole. a round toe and a warm lining. It's .got a long side zipper, t()-o -·. in case you ever have to make a· hasty exit. Open Tues.~ T.,urs. 'Til 9 $37.95 40·8 Sta.fe Street \Downtown\ Schenectady

ing, n' s ent the IS am, the he his at an of at OilS be of to nts. hild cers and two the pus, be hon All is hon nity rent the ·'·' ··i:= .. Les \Finxers\ Goldstein plars the mandolin. Dave Gordon tosses tennis halls. YOU JUST ANSWERED A HELP WANTED AD FOR YOUR OWN JOB. MAYBE WHAT YOU NEED IS A MAXIMUS SUPER . • .. . } .. ·: .. _ I{ ........ ~- t!:';_ • • .... . Wednesday, Nov. 20, 1974 Page9 ' \ . '. . . •, . . ·. ' . . . '.·. . ·. . . . / :' ': : . .·. . ' ' ,· Nu? UBU! To my loyal supporters: I am Continuing my efforts to rid the world of the menace of t:BU; RATED X, hut the situation on the home front is v.orsening. In order to prevent my daughter's contamination by the moral pollution rampant on the Union CoUege campus, I have withdrawn her from the freshman class and locked her in her room with only Rebecca of Sunny brook Farm to read. My wife is suing me for divorce and has nm off with Eliot Brasterman! The stock market is plummeting, my home 1s disintegrating, my life is crumbling in my hands! l'Bt: is destroying me! But I will persevere. Ubu to the right of me! U bu to the left of me! \o! You can't do this to me - i.t v.on't work. I'm on to your little game. It'~ a pl1't I ir\t thc:y fluoridate your v.ater, and then they mo\t: next door. Soon the~ 're flooding the market \\it h t:heap Japanese radio~ and in~tituting \\agt: and price t.: ntrob~ Wdl. I'll fight~ ou in the trenches. I'll fight yol:l un the home front. I'll fight you in the ~hopping center:, and had alleys and ~upermarkeb and rolkrama~ and pickle fac:torie~ America will endure~ Sincerely yours. C. Owen Biggs Ill '29 • .................. Dear t;bu, I hanks for everything. I never could ·have pushed old Higgsy over the brink without you. Marilyn and I are very happy, and are having a wonderful time here in the Bahamas. Best of luck in aU your endeavors, and thank you one~ agam. Your friend, Eliot Brasterman '29 Li hu beware! My father will be 'venged! C Owen Biggs IV '53 OKAY!! ENOl'GH IS ENOUGH! We have been putting you on. l'Bl.' is a great play, and you can be a great audience! COME SEE lJJn;, AT THE CABARET Thursday, Nov. 21 at 9 pm & Jl pm Friday & Saturday Nov. 22 & 23 at 8 pm L-R: Jerry Coleman, Lei:' Bloomrosen, Karen Bernhard! and Michael Sherer practicefm CBl'. TUESDAY AT CABARET 1:\CIDE:\TAL MarY Vetterling ................................................................................... Piano Karen Williams .............................................................................. Recorder Ed ('raig ........................................................................................ .'1 run1pet MAl:\ SHOWS l\orm Walbek & Singing & Guitar Charlie Tidmarch .............................................................. Song~ ol the '50's Susanna Miller ......................................................... Mistress ol ('eremonies The proceeds of Tuesda~· night's Cabaret will go to the l'nion College Oay Care Center - a good show for a good cause! For wading through Crowds of Admirer._(j SANDLER of Boston makes this knee-high boot with a crepe sole, a round toe and a warm lining. It's got a long side 1ipper. too -~~ in case you ever have to make a hasty exit. Open Tues •• Thurs. 'Til 9 $37.95 408 State Street \Downtown\ Schenectady

Pa~eJO - ;aa BLITHER Attention: All students going to the Soviet Union with Mrs. Jerna:koifs group will meet at ~ p.m. on Monday. November 25 in HU 119. * * * * There will be a meeting of the Union College Ski 'Patrol on Mon., Nov. 25th at 4;30 p.m. in Strauss Lounge. It Is important for all qualified candidates to bring their $JU registration fee. Call Jim HeUer, 374-7342 if you cannot make the meeting. * * * * There will be · a meeting of the Military Board Game Simulations Group \When Diplomacy Fails,\ Thursday, November 21 in. Strauss Lounge at 9:00p.m. All interested are welcome. * * * * To all those interested in the Yearbook Layout Staff: Our publisher will be here Thur.sday night, Nov. 21, at 7 p.m. in the Yearbook office (top floor Carnegie). Due to· the importance of the Layout Staff we will not be able to ta/<>e everyone interested. However. if you have an artistic ;e.ye or just an eye for what looks good, please come to the meeting. * * * * There exists oti campus an Administrative Committee recently fanned to study the present \Grant•in-Aid\ and \W ork-.Study\ programs with an eye on in1provement and perhaps. extension to a Central Employment Bureau ~erving the needs of both financial aid and non-financial aid students. Any insight or suggestions would be greatly appreciated. Please· contact: Susan Bergan (Admissions Office); AI MaGill (Administration Building); Joseph Matas (Student Aid Office); or Susanna Miller ( Placernent Office). * * * * There will be a free showing ol' \Zorba the Greek\ on Nov. 27 at 7:30 p.m. in the meeting room o( the Schenectady Central Library, Liberty and Clinton Streets. * * \ * There will be an important organizational meeting of the Ski Club and Ski Team on Thurs .• Nov. 21 at Alpha Delta Phi in the living room at H p.m. (A,D. Phi is located across Library Lane from the infirmary). * * * * The Idol Workshop meets every Tuesday at 7 p.m. in Strauss,Lounge. All writers of poetry and fiction are invited to bring their work for discussion by the group. * * * * ATTENTION 'all current and prospective photo society members: The keys, membership cards and general information sheets are available. Check in the library and pick upyour info slieet-whieh should answer any questions. All darkrooms are presently functional. There will be a photo society meeting Monday night, the 25th. in Strauss Lounge. Check Union's weekend 11yers on campus for exact time. * * * * There will be a meeting of the Schenectady Protect Your Environment Club this Thursday at 7:00 p.m. in Strauss Lounge. All members are requested, to attend and aU interested persons are cordially invited. · * * * * Tired of cooking for yourself! Don't want your room to smell like burnt toast all winter? Want to meet some new faces? Try one of the meal plans at the Davidson Co-Op; lunches and dinners or both (9 meals per week). .For more information call Marc Cohen or John Dolan. 436-993K * * * * Anyone interested in Transcendental Meditation is most welc;ome to attend one of the two remaining presentations this term: on Wednesday night, Dec. 4 at ·!5 p.m. in Strauss Lounge. TYPING Reasonable ~ates Fast Servite 393-2233 SHOP ON JAY STREET For Your Mind Body Soul THE OPEN DOOR BOOK SHOP THE COUNTRY KITCHEN THE OTHER SIDE OF .TODAY 135, 136, 137 Jay Street Open Tues.-Sats. CONCORDI.l:-\'NSIS Wednesday; Nov. 20, 1974 Choosing Presidents- ·stu:dent Advisors Continued from· Page 8 Continued from Page l unyielding and self-defeating. The he had one great fault and this . the Polil1cal Science department last type is one .. Mr. Barber calls was his inability to negotiate is planni11g on making up a list of the Franklin Roosevelt. type, ot effectiYely. This caused many of all Student Advisors assigned ,to th.;: active-positive type. Kennedy his difficulties as president. the department, and handing the and Truman fit into this category. Mr. Barber concluded IHs lis.t out to aJl freshmen. J·t is l'hese president:~. enjoy their jobs; lecture hy sayirig that we need a hoped that the freshmen will have they are men who are able to reestablishment of the politics of enough incentive to contact one l!:lugh at themse,Ives. The F. D .. R. persuasion as opposed to force. A of the advisors. The Chemistry type graws in the White House resuscitation ·of rt:spect for the de.partment on the other hand, is and overcomes mistakes. Mr. icleal oft:he Iaw is al$() necessary. planning on having i'l few Barber believes that Gerald Ford ~~8e?<!~~~ase;;~~~~ Student Advisors and a Faculty is an active-:pGsitfve president. ~ • ·• Aqvisor in one .room; and letting Ford enjoys 'his je\ is open and An ad hoc committee hils several students come in and ask war.m, and can laugh at himself. been appointed to con!lider the questions tq the group. With trust in a new president, granting of tenure to Joseph 1-he idea that freshmen may be Barber feels we may now be i:n a A. Maciatiello. Anyone more comfortable in asking othe.r position where we can get back to w.ishing to comment upon · students questions about courses the issues that beset the countr,y. Assistant Profess'o·r than faculty members js basic to Another maj0r point in the Maciariello's quldifications the p tog ra tfi. Dean ,Jecture was style in the should write to the chairmlln Wylen,administr~tive advisor to p,residency. Style, according to of the ~onunittee, 'being as the pmgram, also feels. that Dr. BaFber, is .the habits of a specific as .possible. a-dvising others about courses is person in politics most relevant to Joseph Finkelstein good e~perience for students since his presidential performance. If (H.istol1) it forces them to pinpoint their one wishes to understand why a l't.3~~~~~~~~8'<!~~~~ reactions, pro and con, tg a president acts irt the manner he course and p.ro;fessor. does, look at his actions when he ~~:::::;:;:~::::::::~=::::::::~::::::::::::::::;::~;:::::::::~~· Consequently everyone should is first em~rg~ing into politcal life. >. Those among the campus. benefit from th!! progra;m, the For example, Bi::lrber !$tates that community who . have. -~ot Faculty Ad_visor who has . .aJJitof throughout hi~ political career- passed an evening at the his adYising load lessened, the Nixon was a great rhetorician, C . · f'.·reshm·· .·en. w· · ho .. ·get mo· re ·he·J .. p · 1 ·.n h 'abaret ha:ve done so to .theb' w o always te&earcoed his 1 · · cho· o· s· ·t'.\g c·ourses, a·nd the S·tud·e.nt· bl h own. · oss. At the Cabaret, it is \ pro ems t oroughly · However, 'bl Adviso.rs w.ho· lear·n .to ex:pr.ess possa e to reJax, to talk Rink Problems ( ·ontinued from Page 3 minimum. Where that space witt be created is not known at this time. Concern has been expressed that the school will not be able to afford the $40,000 or $50,000 a year to maintain the rink. Members of the Athletic committee believe that more than e.nough money will be made to cover the maintenance costs by renting the building to outside groups. without being drowned out by their o:pinion$ clearly and a j .. ~e ~box, and to see other precisely. · members of the community O.ppo$i(ion voice(! doing things which you may Critics of the p.rograrri have not have known they could do. claimed that personal student The ·Cabaret is something likes and dislikes will affect their which has been needed on this· recommendations. To h!;!lp campus for along dml;l.· Now . eliminate this possibility a that his here, everyone !!hould training program has been set up take advantage of it, ff you · for all Student Advisors. Dean e.nj.oy the s·how, then Wylen hopes to ext~nd this remember · that the talent . training program to F acuity comes from the commqnity Advisors as well. and the chance is that you atn . An advisors manual is in the get up there and put on 1he midst of being compiled and will , sbow next week. The Cabaret :. be banded out to all faculty an,c;l is not a competition. it is 3~ Student Advisors. AU i;lspects of opportunity for fun, for college life will be mentioned, and release, and;maybe f()t meeting lists of who to go to with whlch the person of your dreams. pr.obleln, will be ·included. Questions have also been asked. as to., why the rink was built on ~:::::::::~;:::::::::::::::::::::::::::::~::::::::::::::::::::::~:::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::!.( the only natural.woods left on the ram.pus instead of behind lZichmond or behind Beta Theta Pi. The reasons are that the rink will have locker space for sports such as soccer and lacrosse, which wlll allow the trailers behind the field house to be removed. This year is basically a year of experimentation for the St1.1dent Advi~ing p;rog;ram. At th~ end of the yeat either a viable, effective program will be in existance. or the program will be . ended . ·creating a ~desire in students to seek their advisor's assistance is necessary to ensure the success of any advisingprogram. Hopefully, the freshmen will receive good advice ami contin.ue to ask their advisor's opinion. Plans are apparently already in existence for a new gym to be built in front of the field house near the brook. This will most likely entail the furthe·r culverting of the brook front the bridge to·' the existing culvert behind the. maintenance complex (which was . built to protect ·an outbuilding from collapsing into the stream). This new building will have its own locker space, since the old gym will most likely be altere<! to contain the thea:ter OF some other activit¥. Tickets available now in Theater: ss.oo. ,,. \\ ya wi in ha the H~ lm du tht na ha int wi1 fir: yaJ Fr 7..( B. by A ATJ only Cpll will conj Coli hom 197'- field stro~ Mid A encc loun mas: PI loor grot com men Nei Gr< will the: furi the exp I jun fielc inju spo but spr: at 1 bas s Pat Me Kill

is IS N n is a a is y, 1 .. ' . CONCORD!b'NSJS, .Wednesday, Nov. 20, 1974 Page 11 sports John 8allard ·blocked an 18 yanl Hamilton field g.oal attempt with just tWo minutes remaining in the game as Union qefeated hapless Hamilton <13~1:2. The win was t:Jnion's second of the season against six losses. Hamilton, b·n the o.ther band, has lost 21 in a row and has the dubious distinction of possessing the longest lo.sing streak in the nation. Union jumped out to a 13-0 half time .ead.. T otn Hood intercepted a Continental pass with 52 seconds remaining in the first •period and returned it 36 yards fo:r a touchdown. Mark Frampton added the P.A.T. fora 7..(l lead. Then, midway through B-Ball Fans by MURRAY and HERBIE ATTENTION! ATTENTION! ATTENTION! The one (l) and only recognized, official, Union C~JIIege Basketball Psyche Section will begin its 1974-75 campaign in conjunction with the Union College Varsity Basketball Team's home opener on December 2, 1974 a·t 8:00 P.M. in the Fieldhouse when the Garnet dee- stray the purple walnettoes of Middlebury. All veterans and freshmen are encouraged to gather in Fox lounge at 7:15 that evening for a mass march up to the fieldhous(.!. Prerequisites: all must be. loonies, maniacs, fanatics, groupies, flamers, or any com.bination of the afore- mentioned creatures. Soccer Continued from Page 12 X-Country by ROY W ANDELMAIER Although it may come as a shock to many, there are fittle the second q.uarter the Dutchmen that tlle receiver was out of people who run around beautiful sustained a 43 ·yard drive. in seven bounds and Union led J3 1 .J2. downtown Schenectady, through plays. The march Was capped by This set the stage fo·r Ballard's rain, mud and subhuman Captain Ron Westbrook's one fourth qua·tter heroics. With just temperatures in their underwear. vard scoring plunge. Union six minutes to play, Hamilton Lunatics? Heroin addicts? ·Pre- inissed the ensuing P.A.T. engineered a drive from their 39 meds who can't take it anymore? Hamilton came out fighting in to the Union one. With a fourth We.U, some, but not all of them. the second half and managed to and goal to go from the one, They are the Union'College cross dose the ga-p to 13~12 with a pair Hamilton elected to attempt a country team. of third period T.D.'.s. The first fieldgoal (a tribute to our One can see them on any was scored on ·!I, 39 yard ariel defense), but. Ballard broke dreary, wet, wind-chilled from Lafountain to Pisanelli through, blocked the try, and Wednesday or Saturday while the second score saw preserved the win. afternoon competing against La Fountain find George The Ralph Hue Awards which other skivvy-clads from other Gramaglia in the Dutchman end are presented anually to the . institutions of higher learning, mne.. Af.ter the;ir second sc'?re outstanding players from both ·before wildly cheering, capacity Hamtlton went for a 2 pomt Union and Hamilton went to crowds comprised of three conyersion. and t?e lead. Once Union's Greg Breedlove and drunks, two squirrels and a :lost agam. LaFount.am . found . a· H atnilton's junior defensive end patrol of bewildered Brownies. ,• Contmental rece1ver m the end Don Armstrong. Union's football team, which zone, however, the officia I ruled · EFENSE SAVED THE DAY ATHAMILTON FiJi Champs Wanted: People interested in writing for Concordy Sports. It's. not necessary to speak Neilson, and fullback Bob \Oh yes, Oh yes!\~ That's Grossman, tri-captains this year, what they s&id as Fiji's fleet- will be sorely missed. All three of footed intra-mural soccer· team these fou:r year- varsity lettermen topped the high h<?pes. faded furnished inspiring leadership to dream Bongers, an independent the team as well as valuable team that Was the crowd's experience. favorite. Topping the Bongers in · fluent jock; so if y9u want to get involved drop a note in the Concordy mailbox which is located in the Student Activities Office or call Kevin Crawford or Bill Underhill at 346~1}77 6. ReP.orters are needed to eover the winter sports scene, both intercollegiate and intramural. WRD,. JEFF, In Saturday's final contest, the final overtime, Fiji pulled the junior star John Denio left the game out of the fire by this field in an ambulance with a leg difficult l-0 victory. injury. It was feared that the two- ~ It was a long and hard sport star had fractured his ankle intramural co~test but, to quo~e but it turned out ·to be severly • Charles Darwm \The best wm sprained and Denio will be back out!\ at full strength for the oncoming basketball battles. Special thanks go to manager Paul Daniels and ballgirls Ellen Messite Carolyn Reider, Valerie Kilhenny, and Sari Gerb. ACE CARDS & GIFTS !!llllllllllllllllllllllllllll!lllllllllllllllllllllllllllt!! i ... PART-TIME § .; EMPLOYMENT _§ = = - - 5 Car necessary N eat5 §appearance. Call Walt, 374~§ 54593. . = illilllllllllllllJIIIIIIIIIIllllllllllllllllllllllllllfiF. 175 JAY STREET (off State) COME SEE OUR VARIETY OF ANY OCCASION AND HOLlO A Y CARDS. THE TWO CIRLS -· YOU'RE EICACED TO . .JUST REALIZED ~ ~ -- ~ FOR LIQUOR t ~ . . l AND WINE I I L posted a 2-6 record, has a budget in the vicinity of $90,000. Who can blame anyone for not giving the mediocre J-3 harriers the enormous sum of $125 needed to go to the IC4A's? Several weeks ago, they won two meets and football lost one. Who can blame anyone·f or the devotion of a third of a sentence in Concordy on the runners compared to a meager 100 line article on the gridders? Union's cross country team which placed ninth in the state meet, finished their best season in as many years at 3-3, besting Trinity, Middlebury and RPl while losing to Hamilton, Williams and Albany State. So it Luke's Supernaarket Open 7 Days a Week 830 Eastern Ave. . 346-9757 i .. ~ ji) Try \ Jdce Lipsfein's THEY HAD SOMEIHINC . INCOMMOI . . The only store worth shopping at! j i ~ ~ ~ 464 State Street ~ FR4-1811 -- .4 - ~ --- ...,. ~ .·.- .... . . . YOU. . ~ MAmE WHAT YOU NEEDIS.A MJmMUS SUPER. l,!uimua Supir o ... r .. F. X. Mall Briwlno Co .. UliCI, N.Y. · . ' • ! Dave's Squire ~hop Tues, Thurs 'til 9 DOWNTOWN SCHENECTADY 420 State Street

Page J2 Soccer Loses 1-0 Union Runner Up To . Cortland In E.C.A.C. by JOHN BUSTERUD and LEE RlMSKY .• It was a (;old and blustery day v. hen thl: Garnet took the field to face a revenge-bent Hamilton squad in first . round ECAC ;tournament action. Earlier in the ,~·asPil, ·l'ni,•tlhad lallljllishcJ thc 'alliL' ILtmolt!•il. corHtngcnt 1-{) and the l'ontment.ab were thirsting to return the favor. But the Dutchmen were not to be denied. Taking control of the game from I he ~tart, the Garnet capir.aliled on a Hamilton defensive miscue with only ten minutes gone in the first ~half. Craig Jeffries broke free at the eighteen yard line and put a relatively easy shot through the goalies legs. J'Ohn Denio was a warded the assist. Union added another goal in the first halfwhen John Denio corralled a perfect pass from Craig Jeffries and beat the Hamilton netminder to .the near post. Union's defense then took charge for the remainder of the. game and blanked the Hamilton attack. P-utstanding defensive efforts were turned in by goalie Chris Huban, fullbacks Bobby Grossman and Jim· Bacharach and halfbacks Doug Moran and Olaf Neilson. Forward George (iaravaltis furnished strong ~uppnrt fnr the Denio-Jeffries tandem. !he Hamilton victory set up Saturday's ~howdown with Cprfland Stat('. In Fridav'\ other -,,·mi-finak gamr. Cortland had defratrd 'It I awrrncc .1-1. Cortland. the second .seed in the tournament, had · compiled a tespectahle seacsonal record against one of the toughest scheduals in \lew York State. They were v~ry aggressive and well...,skilled and Saturday's final turned out to be one of Union's toughest games of the season. The first minutes of the game were marked by rough and aggressive play on the part of hoth squads. But !·hen, with 21:17 minutes gone in the. half the Red Dragons were awarded a penalty kick on a controversial call inside the Union penalty area. The kick was converted, .ahd aithough Union applied steady pressure for the last ten mint~tes of the stanza, Cortland took a l-0 lead. into the locker room at half timt;:, In the second -half Union con trolled the tempo of the ballgame. With repeated penetration into the Cortland defensive zone. lhe Gamet pressure payed off when, with about twenty minutes left in the game, they appeared to score the tying goal. But a backing-in penalty assessed by the· referee nullified the tally. Union met witfu furt,her m isf ortt;me severa-l llfinutes late-r when they were awarded a penalty kick and could hot conver,t it. The Dutchmen fought gamely for the remaining time but were never able to make up the deficit. The, Garnet ?\re looking forward very optomistically to next year. First of all, eighteen ER Tl..\A M: 1st row: Hirson. Sanderson, Waul Htlhmr. Busterud, Antin, Gariva!tis~ Dunn. 2nd Row;· Roumain. Moran (C), E(fr/;. Riln'sky, Gt:ossman (C), Gaspard, Philip, Denio. Manninf(. Jrd RoH': Danif?/s,_ Jt:f!'ries, Bacharach, Neilson (C), Stecker, Smith, Glavin, Fil::f?erald, Coach Magee, members of this year's squad ate returning. And secondly; Union will. have the privilege of participating in a prestigious early season tournament Jn,volving perennial power-houses, Hartwick and St. Francis.· 'specia I .mention should be made of the three seniors who will be graduating this year. Halfbacks Doug Moran and Olaf Car stude valua durin. ' and t and lea-vir - b

Page 12 Soccer Loses 1-0 Union Runner Up To h~ .IOU'\; RlSlEIH D and I.EE RI\1SKY - II 11 a' ,, • \ld d nd h ILh t1.· r 1 d ;r ~ \ lw 11 LllL ( '.11 Ill.: t t ou J.. t ht: lrc:ld t u lace a rc1eng~:-hent Hamilton '>ljllad rn I rr~t round E-CAC I lib! ll.tflk~l: ,,~ tlliB I .till~'[ Ill tht: ,c;t\ ''·· : ill•'il i1.1d 1 diii.Jllr~hl'd tilt: '.tr.n·~· ! l.t 111 · 1 l' •II n rntrngl' nt I -(J .trill tire ( <~lltlfH:IItab \\n<.: · I : rr , t rr 1 ,t.: : • ·: ' : 11 11 I Ire !.r \ ' if B ll t lht: llutdlfllc'fl \<.:rt' llPI to O<..' tknid. I dhlll!' c•>lltrLPI of tilt: gaflll' II 11111 II:~· ,1,11 t. the (,~Hill'! <.:ap1taluc:J on a Han11lton defc mive mrscue with only ten minute~ gone 1n the first half. Craig Jdlries broke free at the eighteen yard line and put a relative!~ ea~y ~hot through the goalies leg~. John Denio was av.arded t ht: \'~i~t. t:nion added .uwtht:r go;.tl in the fir~t half \hen J u·hn Denio corralled a perfect pass from Craig Jeffries and heat the Hamilton netminder to the near post. U n1on\ defense then look charge for the remainder of the game and blanked the Hamilton attack. P11t:,tanding defensive efforb v.e re turned in by goalie Chris Huban. fullbacks Bobby (jrossman and Jirn' Bacharach > • . ·\C'< \':~- dTHI h,tllh,IC~' ilt•ll!,! \1t~r<tll ,l!H.l Olal '\~:il'''fl l·prv.arJ (it:tlrg\.' (,,lf.tl,iltr' !trrrri,!Jcd 'tf<lfl)! qrrp<~rt l\r lh,· l>t:nll•·.fl'llrr,., land~:m. I ht· Hamrlton 'i<.:tory 'ct up <;;till r d a' '' ' h P \\ d n \1 11 \\ it h c .. rtLtrrd <.;t,tlt' In 1-r ida:·, othn ,,·mr-final' l!;rllll'. (',,rtl<rnd h;rd dde;rted '-it I :t\\fl'fll'l.' ~-1 ( ·' 11 tl.t nd t h· '''r' 'lHl ,,·ed in t h,· l<•ur n<rrnl'nt. h.11.l n•rnrikJ ;r reo,pectahk 'l.'a~onal rt'l'<Hd .tt:ain't Pfll' ,,f the IPll,l!hC~t 'l'hnlir.tf, in '\n, YorJ.. \tate I ht:_'. '' t:rl' 1 cr:- aggn:~:,ivc and \\ell-skilled and Saturday's final turned out to he one of li nion's toughest games of the season. I he first minutes of the game \\ere marked hy rough aRd aggressive play on the part of !:loth sr.Juads. Hut then. with 21:17 minute\ gone in the half the Red Dragons were awarded a penalty kick on a controversial call inside the Union penalty area. The kick was converted. .and although ~~~ y;~;~i-<.~.r. ... ''/?-/' :j.~ ~ ~ > > ~ .., • ~ t - '!' ., ·~~:;;~~~~;q.'*~-r~~-~N<~~~-·:/: ~k' 1 1~~~~ 9 • ;~ .:.~'/-~~ ~:~~M. ,~}~ .,. _ 9 t:nion applied steady pressure for the last ten minutes of the stanza. Cortland took a 1-{) lead into the locker room at half time. In the ~ccond half L' nion controlled the tempo of the ballgame. With repeated penetration into the Cortland defemiH lone. I he Garnet pressure payed off when. with about twenty minutes left in the game. they appeared to score the tying goal. But a backing-in penalty assessed by the referee nwllified the tally. Union met with further misfortune several minutes later when they were av.ardcd a penalty kick and could not convert it. The Dutchmen I ought gamely lor the remaining time but \t:n: ne\er able to make up the deficit. I he. Garnet are looking forward very optomistically to neH year. First of all. eighteen 1974 SOCCER TEAM: 1st row: Hirson, Sanderson. Ward, Huhan. Busrerud. Antin, Garivaltis, Dunn. 2nd Row: Roumain. Moran (C), l:ar/, Rimsky, Grossman (C), Gaspard. Philip, Denio, Manning. Jrd Rolt': Daniels. Je/frit:s. Bacharach, Neilson (C), Stecker. Smith, Glavin, Fit::!(erald. Coach Maxee. members of this year's SI:.Juad are returning. And secondly. Union will have the priv1lege of participating in a prestigious early ~eason tournament mvolving perennial power-houses. Hartwick and St. l-ranc1s. ~rc~:wl mention ~hould be made of the three seniors who will he graduating this year. Halfbacks Doug Moran and Olaf Continued on Page II c, , tud ,afu. JurF and anci I h..· a\ 1 - -

The window of .the heart looking out is oj'ten open where the doors to action by the will remain closed. -Anonymous Vol 3 _No 4 Union Collel!e Black Student Alliance's Newspaper Wednesd(.ly, Nove.mber 20, 1974 :~:.:~:::::::::::::!::::•::::::::::::t=:=:~::::::::~::::::t:::::::::!~::;:=:~:::;:::::::!:;:=:~:=:~:::::::::::~:=:=:::::;:::::::.::::::::=:~:;:::::~:::;:::~::;::::::::==:!:: ~ ~ ...• . ... 11~~ Editor's Pferogativ·e 11\l 1~~~ ' \ . ll~~ Nathan Wright Speaks on Whites ~1~~l.et's talk about some honk'ies. spelled backwards. Because l!~~ :;i;Lefs talk about some niggers. P~rspective has allowed such an :::: ;:;:·•sticks and stones may break my article to exist in series form. ;:;: ;~;~hones- many white people may chese t~ !l!~ ;:;;Hut \Nigger will never hurt me\ he offended. However,;:;: ;:::But it will infuriate me to no end J?erspective is using the title Jor :!;! ;~;; tho~gh, and 1 will react violently descr·iptive purposes s.ince the !~:~ ::::at times. . . Fables deal with those things );!; :::: I know I'm not a mgger. But I honkies do which we feel are :::: J· riday, November I 5, 1974, expressed a desire for the Dr.. Bonnet had company, and ''Women, Black students and the was kind enough to ·share his less a.ffluent to be seen as guest with the Union College members of the Union College Community. During his community ... \ and he hoped his introduction to the sardine inviting Dr. Wright to speak on packed audience, the President, \'Various issues concerning the gave his personal re~sons for· possibilities for improving race having Dr. Nathan Wright speak· relations would do just that. out on Bl~ck and white Folks. He Then Dr. Wright, ex-chairman .. ' .. ;~;; kn~w niggers. A lot of them are inhumane or unj.ust. Unless you ;:;: :;:: whtte. You may not be a \honky\ identify with honkies or their :;:; ~;~;hut your mama 'and da~dy may actions, you should not be ~;;; :;;;?e. What we are 1s more offended. People also wonder ;1;: • ~~ tmportant than what we are_ why our message is brou~;ht out ::;: ;!;!called, granted. B~t we use .labels in an indirect way instead of ;:;: :;:;to. help us sort thmgs out m our doing a basic news story on the :;:; ;;:; mmds. . So, regar.diess from subject. The reasons for this are :;:; ;:;:whence tt came, a mgger (to me) that at this point we need a ;:;: ;;;:is a backward person who's means of \'covering ~ur ass\ while ;:;; ;~;; hasical'ly igno~~nt and a b~rden !!etting our point across. \Ass- ;~:: ;:;:to t?e pos1t1ve progress of covering\ devices are needed, it is ;:;: :;:; mankmd. A hanky IS a reference ,ad to have to admit from my seat :;:; ;:;:to a person, (usually white) who under The Man's thumb because·!:;: ;~;;will keep his foot on the backs of \\hen and . if I say s~mething :!:~ ;:;:those who're trying' to get the true/bad about him, he'll only ;:;: ;:;:\arne thing out of life as he is. press down hmder, but ifit's said ;!;~ ;!;!And to keep him'self on top, he'd in an indirect way he'll get the ;:;:· ;!;!do everything in his power to n1essage and just may lighten &p, ;!;! · ::;:degrade, cheat a~d suppress a not knowing just who to pr~tss ;;;: · :;:;person (usua!Iy Black) who's d.own on. Racism is hard to :;:; ~:;;merely trying to live comforta.bl~. prove, and ~ometimes all we ·have ~!~! · :;:; We know, however, that It Is is feelings of personal depravation :;:; :;:;not that simple·to accept those 1()' let us kriow'' w~'ve: be~n !;!; !;!;two definitions and live on. It's slighted. · !;!; !;!;not what the .definitions are, it's l.et me say here that I'm ~;~; !;!;how th~y're said. Plus w~ all don't justifying 1'k-Noh's Fables for :;;; Dr. Bonner introducing $Uest . speaker D.r: Nathan Wright, who is dressed complete witfz African(?) beads. Attica News ;:;:entertam the same vtews and ~ommunication purposes only. !:!: the events of the past two ;!;!definitions. There are so many !.ike I said, we have a mess'age ;!;! months show a pattern of ;!;!thinss that go into a racist and would hope you would read ;:;: increased repression against the :;:;remark, so many emotions, to find out what it is. Another :;:; Attica Brothers. ~:i;co.nn?ta~io.ns, and we all know thing: student's write these fables ~:~: Most recently, oh Saturday ;:;;t~ts. fhts ts why we must be very on their own volition and not of;:;: evening at about nine o'clock, Big :;:;careful when we use these terms, the prompting of any:;:; Black, the National Director of :;;;ih~e must usethemat~IJ. lfyou administrator Black or White.!:~: the Attica Brothers :::;deliberately call me a mgger a.nd I his statement should remind you :;:: Offense/Defense left his home !;!;you don't know ~e, then y~u a~e that Per~pective is a Black student ~:;: with Polly Eustis, a legal worker, ;;;;unduly stereotyp1!'g me w~1ch ts newspaper, Jllade up of Black ;:;: and brought someone to their :;;;the number one sm and ractst act. ~tudent views, designed to let :;:: hoine on the East Sid(.. Then they ;:;;I'll get offended and try my best people know be they Black, White :~:: proceeded to the West Side with ::;;to break your he.!ld open to reveal or .middle of the toad how we !;!; Ms. Eustis driving. Suddenly their :;:;the rocks that he there. If I c~ll lee!. Thank God for freedom of;:;: car was pulled over by a Buffalo ;:j;you a honky a~d I don't .know the press! . ;:;: tactical Patrol Unit car. The car ;:;;you, you may wtsh to reactm the In closing, I've one last pQint. ;:;: was staffed by two uniformed ;:;:same w~y. I? both. ~ases the !\ lot of white people hoping to;!;: policemen and two plainclothed ;:;;na?'lec:a~Itng ts. ma~tctous an~ hridge the .gap holler that a lack ;:;: reople, one male and one female. :;:;unjustified, but It can.t be helped, · of communication is the prpblem, ;!;: M.s. Eustis got' out of the car ;:;:not really because Ignoramuses hut here is my view: y'all been :;:; immediately. The policeman, ;;;~will always_ he hurlin~ racist getting the communications and ;:j: however, without asking for an ;:;:remarks unhl the end of tlme and the vibes too. Black Stude.nts :::: J.D. and without explaining the ;:;;what is hurled back is justly leave no deficiency there. lt's.just :;:~ ~top called Big Black by name :;:;deserved. that v'all don't really want to;::: and demanded that he get out of :;:; :\ow on the other hand we have accepi the communication that ;:;: the car. The officer subsequently :;!;something like YK-NOH's Fables. \'all been getting.. · :;:; entered the car, reached under the :;;;Yk-Noh is olwioltsly \'honky\ · . . . . ~}::,,seat ar,d pulled 6ut a brown paper •• ••••••••eo••·•••••••••••••••·•••.,•.•,•,.•.•.•,•.•;.•.•.•.•,•;.,.~,. • • •:•: e•,•.·.··:•:•:o:•:•:•:•:·:·:·:·:•:•:•:•:•!•:•:•:•:•:•:•:!:•:'!':~:·:•:•:'!':·.·:·.······:·;•:·:·:·:·:·:·:~:·:·:·:•: .. :•:•:•:'!':•:•:•!•!!\!• .. • .. ·~\-··· .. • .. • .. • .. ~-· .. ·~·······lr;'•.• l-ag· and announced \here 1 t IS \\) ···~~· .. • .. • .. • ........................................................................ , ' ' . . .. ·~. ' Upward Bound Students Tour ·WRG,B Area UPward Bound students toured WRGB-TV studios, Schenectady, at I :00 p.m. on Saturday, November 9, 1974. The tout was one of a series of field trips to be taken by participants during the school year. The WRGB tour was conducted by Mr. Gregory 1--reelon, a producer/director at WRGB. He explained operations of the station and answered questions relating to broadcasting which the students had. Upward . Hound participants included ~tudents from Linton and Mt. Pleasant High Schoo Is. Schenectady; Tray, High School. I roy; and Wilbur Lynch High School. Amsterdam. Upward Bound, a federally funded program based in this area at Union College, is designljt.d to aid area high school students in preparing themselves for post- secondary education. It also affords many high school students the opportunity to overcome S('me of the ihadequacies caused hy economic, cultUral. and eauca.tiona'l inadequacies. Besides Union, there are more than 30(), other colleges and universities in the United States \\hich host Upward Bound Programs. (Upward Bound Press Release) H(]th Ms. Eustis and Big Black \\ere immediately placed under arrest and charged with possession of marijuana. I he following fa.cts ·substantiate that the arrest was clearly prearranged and designated as an a ttac.k on the Attica Brothers: .f. The car was stopped without cause 2. The not asking Ms. Eustis- the-driver-for her I.D. and ignorin~ her when she \ olunteered it and the immediate move towards Big Black .~. rhe knowledge of Big Black's identity with.out seeing his J.D. 4. The immediate i1legal search 5. The expecteddiscovery of a bag of marijuana On Mondav, October 28, ~Hica Brother ·Willie Smith was arrested lor alleged rape in Buffalo. The arrest came only two weeks alter simtlitr · charges against him sternming from the Attica Rebellion had been dropped. By charging Willie Smith with the same type of crime, it is clear that the state is trying to justify its original indictment against Willie and, by implication, the rest of the Attica Brothers. The recent case against Willie contains as many contradictions as did the first, and serves to once again prejuaice the public against the Attica Brothers. On October 28, Richard Bilello was stabbed to death in Clinton Prison. Richie had been promised, as a condition of his guilty plea, that he would be sent to a penitentiary near his family in New York City. On being sent to Clinton, he moved to take back his plea, stating that the state had violated the agreement. In a suit filed against the state Richie demanded that his own lawyer Phillip Abramowitz and Judge BaH be ordered to ·answer the questions about why the conditions of his plea were not met. The next day, Richard Bilello was murdered. It is clear that these acts of repression by the state against the Attica Brothers are an attempt to set the mood for the trial of Dacajaweiah and Charley Joe Pernasalice. which is scheduled to hegin on November 18th. I hese tactics are only too familiar to us. Immediately following the massacre of Se.pt.ember IJ, 1971, State Officials released false reports that prisoners had murdered hostages by slitting their throats and sexually mutilating them. Both the lies propagated hy State Officials in 1971 and now are part llf the same attempt to avoid the real issues of the Attica case and create the coAditions under which another wholesale massacre agaihst the Attica Brothers \viii of the Afro-American StudieS: program and present professor of the Urban Affairs at SUNYA, stood Up. And he began to deliver· what was to be the most· controversial lecture yet this year.:· Controversial because it dealt with people of opposite color. Also because the audience was having trouble figuring out whether they understood Mr. Wright or not. He began his leoture by trying to establish the fac~ that there is a difference between white people and Bla,ck people. \Beautiful people are always mindful of who they are,\ he said. He pointed out that many whites had problems with race relations because they would not admit to themselves that they are white because of all the negative connotations \\ hiteness has picked up over the Years. Some whites try to get ;tway from that identification so much that they let their hair grow . long and get smelly and funky and dirty and then want to call~~ him \brother and to this he said,' \'1 don't like dirty white folks.\ I hough th~re is a difference, Dr. Wright wants people to be wary of stereotyping those differences. ·''The purpose of}· going· tci schooL .. ,\ he quipped,~ \Is to -learn how to generalize ·. with sophistication.\ Then he generalized, \Everybody in America bas a honkified .mind.\ He went on to, say that some people in order to rid themselves of their racist behaviors will pretend that they are colorblind, hut this method was only \damn loolishnes(' and the person who Uoes this should go to an eye ,pecialist to have treatment. The only solution is that \We must lace the simple and elementary· !acts.\ Dr. Wright's next subject dealt \1 ith Black people as cast outs. Because we are cast out, we are marginal, but in many ways this makes Black people more aware than . whites because we have a het.ter view of what's really going on. Paralleling the situation to that of the balcony in a theater, Dr. Wright demonstrated that lrom our vantage point in the balcony we get a better view of centerstage than those who are actually on the stage. Keeping this in mind,. and taking into ~:onsideration that Blacks as this result have greater empathy, then admissions offices for places of higher education should realize that instead of having to lower their standards, that they merely ,hould be widening them. Still operating on this premise, he ~uggested that since there are four times as many Black people as there are Jews, then our scho'ols ,hould be made up of the same corresponding numbers. This v. ould g·ive us a population of 20 1 ~(. Here Dr. Wright pointed out that since most colleges lacked that 200-r. yet profess a desire to welcome more Blacks then they are all not honl'!st hecause they could all change Cc.lntinued on Page D appea~justi~ied. We ask you all to ;upport us m any way you can. Dismiss the indictments now. !Attica Brothers Offense/ Defense J>ressRelease)

B t••······································ .. ·········~· • • • • ·• WHO WE ARE • ~ . . • Editor - lsidra Person 1 i Editor's Assistant - The House I • Poetess in Res. idence ...... Utam.u I •• • i Artist in Residence - Robert Davis 1 • Photography Editor _. Bill Collins I . ·• I Typists - Olivette Simmons, Ronald Westbrook 1 ll General Writers - Sharon Brown, Marilyn Becton, 11 I Thomas Watts ! I Special Thanks to - Gail Chatman, Attica Press I • • 11 Releases, Lawrence Cooke,. Ana Logy, Upward Bound • . . = 1 Photo credit for Poetry Page goes to none other tha,n ·• I the notorious Red Man. I I Also, ·especiallv for this issue: Thank vou Lord. . ! ·= ··········~~~-~~·~·································· .. ! To The Ed·itor Before we can love ali people We must first love o1:1rselves 2446 University Avenue (lt5c) Bronx, New York 10468 27 October 1974 Black Students Alliance Hickok House l'nion College Campus Schenectady, New York 12~08 Dear Brothers and Sisters, I read with interest the article, \B.S. A.,\ in Perspective (Wednesday, 2 October 1974). lt was mentioned in the article that consideration was being given to changing' the name of the organization from \Black Students Alliance\ to another name which will \ill be· \'lam Puerto Rican.\ The ~arne ~lso if you go to Chinatov.:n here in the city; the respon~e Will he, \I. am Chinese.\ Ask a Cuba~ and you get, \I am Cuban.\ But.•f vou ask one of us, the response IS, :., am Black.\ That's all well and good, but what does it mean? All of the oher responses imply many things: a specific geographic area, a national history, a cultural identity; a language and so on. What does \Biack\ imply? The geographic; area isn't ours (We don't control it). There is. no national h.istory; only the accumulated experiences of countless individuals without the advantage of a nationa'l' framework. Linguistically,·~ we consider how many Afric<lns in insure larger participation by America study European aU Third World students at languages and think it quite linion. Let me say here that I think to change the name would be a mistake - not because I have any particular love for the name .but hecause of the deeper issues represented by the kind of name change that is being contempla tea. natura1 but see no advantage/worth to studying Twi, Yeruba, f'anti, Hausa, Wolof, Swahili. etc etc etc. Culturally, we have something to fall back on; hut it always goes back to the fact that what we call \Black Culture\ is an offshoot/ a. splintering of/ sometimes a distortion of Euro-American culture. All Third World peoples have their own ,cult ural/ linguisticjhistori- ,c a 1/ ge. o graphic 1 social/ reli- cu1tura1 I linguistic 1 hi st o ri- cal/ geographic/ social(reli~ gious/etc., etc., etc., references to which they adhere to first and · with which they identify first. Their membership in the Third In the Kingdom of Amerricus, in the land of Scandeckadi, there is a p.rovincecalledOnion Collide. OniGn Collide was known for its ''Good\('?) educational system. Of all the proyirices in Scaneckadi it was held most high when it came to educating. The LORD was proud of its reputation but cont·inuously worried about the negfit.oes and :pricans who had not too Iong ago m.igrated into {he land. The majority of the population of Onion CoHide was nf whitanglaxon background. Part of rhe duties of Onion Collide Was to provide strong hodies as w~;:ll as strong minds for its citi1:ens. So within the 'tructucre of Onion Collide there \\as something named ·'SPOI'JW.rs.:· Every province had SPOU~TS.But the leaders of Onion Collide felt that education \\as more important to a \well- rounded whitanglaxon\ than sJ>OlJRTS. ' f,here were many sections of SPOURTS. lhere was Section F cal:led Sf.IOEBALL, Section S called SOCKE.R, Section R caHed ltuggey and Section B ca:Jied SHOOTBALl,. There are others hut these seem to be the most popular through outthe Kingdom of Amerricus. Of the population o:f immigrants, pricans became involved with Sections S & R. ()uite a·rew negri.toes participated in Section F. Section B was a little ~hakey. . . l .he leader ·of Section B, Skunk loTi,, seem to ignore the fact that many of the negritoes a.nd p;ricans haGI talent to deal With SHOU:FBALL. Yet, Sl<un;klon \\ ondered why no negritoes came out to participate in SHOOTBALL. In the past, many tale,nted negritoes had participated in the rookie d·ivision of SH OOTBALL, but. for some odd reason, none went on to rarticipate in. the varsity division of Section B. Some say that it was because the rookie coaches wouldn't allow them to pla.y, others say it's because to be on '!he varsity, you had to act like an whitanglaxon. One negrito did the impression so well, that he lfis participation as a rookie was only to look upon whitangloxons participating. World allegiance first, with ~,..,.,..,.,_.,.,.,.._...,..,.\\\\\\\\\\\'\\\\'\\\\'_\\\\_...... \\as made a co-.captain. One day one of the negritoes that m.igrated into the province of < >:niou Collide (to fill t.he requirements .of the quota system [aW). made one of his goals entrance into Section B. Cuento \\as the title he responded to. I )oil (the rookie leader of Section H) let Cuento participate. 1-1 is participation as a rookie was only to look upon the whitangla.xons par~icipating. Active pa.r.tieipation \\:as seldom accomplished by Cuento bi:lt he would not give up, I ime passed, Things seem to change only siiglitly. One year later - Cuento had improved his ski·lls to participate in Section H. Skunklon was leader of those \\ ho wanted to go out again. But \\hen time came h'l ·chose his team, Skunk Jon made a cleclaratitm .tha,t th.ere w~;:re too many citizens participating that had the same skills a:nd positio li as Cuento, so he must go. And so he left. A. co.uple of whitang]ax,ons had to go to make it look good so that the LORD would not become uvset when he realized that Section B was once again lily whitanglaJ\on .. And Skunklon is still wondering why . no negritoes ca,me out to participate in Sl-!OOTBALL And again no negritoes would hecome involved. In the rookie section, the.re was a new leader, Rockger at this time. He allowed A negrito to participate ,-- one negrito. He tound that \His BOY\ had skills which will prove to be very ~uccessful for Section B. But who knows'????? In the province of Onion ,Collide many things happen. Tomorrow there may be n.o negritoes in the rookie ~ection. Or maybe no prica;ns and negritoes in Onion Collide. (And· maybe no aid from. the Feds). Question: . How m l!Ch more ~ophisticated can segregation. get'? Moral: Don't cut off your \.negritoes\ and spite your face! It is my belief that Third World peop~es must £orm al-. liances/ partnerships/fronts/ com- pactS/ or whatever else you want to call it. This is ·necessary because Third World peoples face certain common problems which are the direct result of European imperialism/ exploitation/ expan- sionism throughout the world. To ·the extent we are d~aling with shared problems these ailillnces are necessary and good. However, there is a point at which all Third World peoples must each deal with problems/ considerations unique to their own situation and · 'which no one else can deal w.jth but themselves. Especially is this true for African peoples in America. There is no group--of people in the history of the world (to my knowledge) who have experienced the · tragedy our people have experienced under European slavery. Un- questionably, we are n9t the only people who have suffered tragedy, but no one has suffered the brand we have. I would submit to you that despite the ·horrors of the German concentration camps of the late 1930's and early 1940's, the experience of Africans in America have been/ continues to be even more dreadful. The Jewish victims of the German Reich, the Chinese victims oi Japanese expansionism in the early 1930's, the North and South American Indians slaughtered at the· hands of invading Europeans and the countless millions dis- located I maimed/murdered f d II . . •• ~ ...................... ~...._ .......................................... ~ ................... 9 ..... ~ ...... ~ ........ ~ ...... ,. .............................. , ...................... .....;.. ..... recognition o an a egmnce to through the .centuries of human activity because of one group imposing their will over another generally never suffered the :loss of their identity to the degree we and our forefathers brought to this country have. Not one (I ·must emphasize the generality of this s_tatement) of these .groups have lost that group identity which helps to give one's individual identity, nor have they . lost the cultural/ historical/ emo- tional ties which are so necessary for group and individual direc- tion/ movement. ' II you ericoun'tef\ 'a \Puerto Rican on the streets of New York City and ask them what they are, m all likelihood their response the national interests of Black people in America taking second place. Stu-dents in the African Free School in Newark, New Jersey write, as part of their heading on written exercises, the following: Before we can love all people We m11st first love ourselves Africans in America have yet to learn this lesson in · all its ramifications. Yes, there is much love; feelings for one another amongst Africans in this country. 't'es, our people have been involved in a continuous 400-year struggle for survivial in America. Yes, we know !}lack people ·here come from Africa. And so on. However, we have yet to realize the type of knowledge/ pride in ourselves once possessed by our forefathers before the coming of the European slave ships. They had these things because they had traditions/ religions/ political, economic, soc1al structures/ etc ..• etc., etc., devised and maintained to suit their view of the universe and to suit their needs. When a people truly has knowledge of themselves and live by their own (not someone else's). tradition, then you have the rudiments. of naticmhood. When this has been achieved, then a people are ready to make real alliances. with other peoples who share common problems/concerns. It is my belief the Black Students Alliance at Union ( 'ollege should sincerely 1 warmly extend an invitation of involvement to all Third World peoples on the campus. The Alliance should help to make their experiences at Union as pleasurable/ meaningful/educa- tional as possible. The fact that they are welcome to join/par~ ticipate should be made known by Meet Mr. Daughtry . . . Sch'dy Board of Education Mr. William Daughtry is a member of the Schenectady Board of Education. He is originally from Boston and has heen in Schenectady since 1953. He is employed by General Electric. Perspective interviewed him at his Regal A venue home. Mr. Daughtry, (Bill, as he introduced himself), was at first appointed to the board in the spring of 1972, to fill a vacancy. He was 'elected to his present tenn in the fall election of that year. Th~re were four seats, including his, up for election, then, he was elected from a field of thirteen. Perspective asked him what his duties on the Board· were. He replied that he was, \concerned with the full extent of the job.\ A school boafd member•s duties, hasieally, are to deal with financial aspect of running a school system, deal with the attitude/ behavior of the . membership o.f the Black Students Alliance - not by the name_ It should never be for:gotten, there should be no .apology for and there should be no doubt about the fact that the pril11ary concern ofthe Alliance is the ad van cern en t/ develop- mentt well-being of Africans in America and throughout the world. May the gods of our forefdthers hless, guide and ptotect ybu. Adefunrni (~()-founder /e\-member of the 'Black ~tp~ent. A!lian~e Mr. Wil(iam Oaughtr.v. member of Schenectady Board of !:.:au cation. personnel and negotiate with labor groups. In addition, a memlrer helps develop policies by which the school system operates, he helps evaluate the system and hires a· Superintendent of Schools. I he Superintenderlt, Mr. Daughtry said, holds his position at rhe .p.leasure of the Hoard. \Handling · a school is like handling a business, and the student is basically the product.\ he said. ln Schenectady, there are ahout twenty-three buildings and thev all need to he administered. I he Board has to insure that each child gets the best he can. The Superintendent, obviously, must be able to administer well in otder to help each child. For evaluations., the Board will, from flme to time, form cottunittees to consider special aspects .of the system, such as the curriculum, special education, ;. pertormance. For example·, . one such committee would investigate why Schenectady elementary school children perform below the State average on the PEP, (Pupil Evaluation Performance) test. Mr. Daughtry said that Schenectady's children score . helow the average, :but t.hat 'the \slope is positive,\ meaning that the situation is not hopeless. He emphasized that he considers h ims(:lf \on the Board as a Board member doing a joh and not as a Black doing a job.\ He feels that, in any event, he could not do anythi.ng constructive for the Black student of Schenectady unless he knew about all the Board's functions. His remarks reflect his rather pragmatic character and his activities ·indicate that he has a very strong commitment for the Black people in Schenectady. Mr. Daughtry was instrumental in starting Black student organizations at Linton and Mt. Pleasant High Schools, and at Steinmetz Jr. High. He illustrated his approach by ,dcscr'ibiog how Continued on.Page C · I I I~ h II p r s tl h s \( h ( 1:

PageB PERSPECTIVE.~ Wednesday, November 20, 1974 !•••••••••••••••••••••••••••••••••••••••••••--••••••r• I WHO WEARE I I Editor - Isidra Person ! I Editor's Assistant - The House I • • I Poetess in Residence- Utamu 1 I Artist in Residence - Robert Davis 1 = Photography Editor - Bill Collins I • • I Typists- Olivette Simmons, Ronald Westbrook 1 I General Writers Sharon Brown, Marilyn Becton, I I Thomas Watts I • • I Special Thanks to - Gail Chatman, Attica Press 1 I Releases, Lawrence Cooke, Ana Logy, Upward Bound 1 1111 Ill m Photo credit for Poetry Page goes to none other than • II B : the notorious Red Man. 11 I Also, especiallv for this issue: Thank vou Lord. I =···················································~! To The Editor Before we can low all people \\e must first love ourselves 2446 l 1 niversity Avenue (liSe) Hronx, :\ew York 10461{ 27 October 1974 Black Students Alliance Hickflk House l nion College Campus Schenectad}, ~ew Yorl1 12308 Dear Brothers and Sisters, I read with interest the article. \H.S.A .. \ in Perspective (Wednesday, 2 October 1974). It v.as mentioned in the article that consideration was being given to \.'hanging· the name of the organization from .. Black Students Alliance\ to another name which will insure larger participation by all Third World students at l'nion. I et me say here that I think to change the name would be a mistake not because I have any particular love for the name but necause of the deeper issues represented by the kind of name change that 1s being contemplatea. It is my belief that Third World <jo peoples must Corm al-. liances t partnerships 1 fronts com- pacts1 or whatever else you want to call it. This is necessary because Third World peoples face certain common problems which are the direct result of European imperialism/exploitation expan- sionism throughout the world. To the extent we are dealing with shared problems these alliances are necessary and good. However, there is a point at which all Third World peoples must each deal with problems; considerations unique to their own situation and which no one else can deal with but themselves. Especially is this true for African peoples in America. There is no group of people in the history of the world (to my knowledge) who have experienced the tragedy our people have experienced under F-uropean slavery. Un- questionably, we are not the only people who have suffered tragedy, hut no one has suffered the brand we have. I would submit to you that despite the horrors of the German concentration camps of the late 1930's and early 1940's, the experience of Africans in America have been: continues to he even more dreadful. The Jewish victims of the German Reich, the Chinese victims ol Japanese expansionism in the early 1930's, the North and South American Indians slaughtered at the hands of invading Europeans and the countless millions dis- located; maimed1 murdered through the .centuries of human activity because of one group imposing their wilJ over another generally never suffered the loss of their identity to the degree we and our forefathers brought to this country have. Not one (I must emphasize the generality of this statement) of these groups have los1 that group identity which helps to give one's individual identity, nor have they lost the cultural/historical;emo- tional ties which are so necessary for group and individual direc- tion' movement. II you encowi't'ci-\ \a 'Puerto Rican on the streets of New York ( '1ty and ask them what they are. m all likelihood their response \\Ill he. ••J am Puerto Ktcan.\ I he ~ame also it you go to l'hinato\\.n here in the cit\': the respon~e will he \!.am Chi;1ese.\ Ask a Cuhan and \oU )!t:t. \I am Cuhan.\ Hut1t \ lHI :tsk on\.' of u~. the response ~~. :., am Black.\ !hat's all \!.ell and !-' ood. hut \\hat docs it l11l'a n'! A II \I the llher respomes imp!~ man~ things: a specific geographic .ll'l:a. a national history. a cultural Identity: a language and so on. \\hat does \Hlack\ imply'! The geographic area isn't ours (we don't control it). There is no national history; only the accumulated experiences of countless individuals without the advantage of a national I ramework. Linguistically, we consider how many Africans in America study European languages and think it quite natural hut see no advantage; worth to studying Twi, Yeruba. Fanti, Hausa. Wolof, Swahili, etc etc etc. Culturally, we have something to fall back on, hut it always goes back to the fact that what we call \Black Culture\ ~~ an offshoot; a splintering uf. sometimes a distortion of I uro-American culture. All Third \\ orld peoples have their own cult u r a I 1 I in g u i s t i c; hi s to r i- c a l.• geographic j sociali reli- cultural 1 linguistic 1 hi st o ri- cal / geographic 1 social I reli- gious/ etc., etc., etc., references to which they adhere to first and with which they identify first. Their membership in the Third World allegiance first, with recognition of and allegiance to the national interests of Black people in America taking second place. Students in the African Free School in Newark, New Jersey write, as part of their heading on written exercises, the following: Before we can love all people We must first love ourselves :\lricans in America have yet to learn this lesson in all its ramifications. Yes, there is much love feelings for one another amongst Africans in this country. '\ es. our people have been mvolved in a continuous 400-year ~truggle lor survivial in America. 't es, we know ~Jack people here come from Africa. And so on. However. we have yet to realize the type of know ledge 1 pride in ourselves once possessed by our forefathers before the coming of the European slave ships. !hey had these things because they had traditions: religions. political. L'conomic, socml structures etc .. etc .. etc., devised and maintained to suit their view of the universe and to suit their needs. When a reople truly has knowledge of themselves and live hy their own (not someone else's) tradition. then vou have the rudiments of natirrr;hood. When this has heen achieved, then a people are ready to make real alliances with other reoples who share common p rohlems,concerns. It is my helief the Black Students Alliance at Union College should sincerely warmly extend an invitation of mvolvement to all l'hird World pcorles on the campus. I he Alliance should help to make their experiences at Union as pleasurable; meaningful, educa- tional as possihle. The fact that they are welcome to join par- ticipate should he made known hy In the Kingdom of Amerricus, m the land of Scandeckadi, there IS a province called Onion Collide. Onion Collide was known for its ··Go<ld\ ('!)educational system. Of a II the prminces in Scaneckadi i,t \\as held mn~t high when it cam~ to cducatil'lg. lhe LORD was proud o I its reputation h u:t continuou~ly worried ahout th~ ncgritnL'S and pricam who had not too long ago migrated mto the land. I he majority of the pop ula ti·on of Onion Collide v. a1 11! w hJtangla.-.wn background. l'art of the duties of Onion ( oil ide was to prO\ ide qrong hod 1c~ as well as strong minds lor Its citi;cns. So \\ ithin the 'truc!ll n: ol Onion Collide there 11 a~ ' '1m e t h 1 n g n u me d ··sJ>ol· R I 'i .. bery pmvincc had SPOl!RIS.Hut the leaders of ( )niun Collide felt that education 11as mor.._. Important !ll a \'l'.ell- 1 ounded whitanglaxon\ than SPCWR IS. I here \\ere many sections of S POUR IS. There was Section F cai'led SHOEBALL. Section S called SOCKER, Section R called H uggey and Section H called SHOO! BALL There are others hut these seem to be the most popular through out the Kingdom uf J\merricus. or the population • d i rnm igra nts, pricans hecame IlilVolved with Sections S & R. (.)uite <\ lew negritoes ra:!icipated 1 n Section l·. Section H was a I itt it: shakey. I he leader ol Section H, '.ku nk Jon. seem to ignore the tact that many of the neg.ritoes and pricans had talent to deal with SHOO I BALl.. Yet, Skunklon \londert'll wh~ no negritoes came 11U! to participate in SHOO I HALL In the rast, manv talented negritoes had participated in the rookie division nt SHOO I HALl .. hut lor some • 1dd rL\ason. none went on to participate in the \ar~itv division • ,f Section B_ Some 'av t:hat It was h.:cause the rookie coaches v.ouldn't allow them to play, other~ 'av it's because to he on the varsitY. vou had to act like an \\ hitangl~x~n. One negrito did the impression so \-\<ell, that he His participation as a rookie was only to look upon 11·hitanx!oxons participatinx. \\as made a co-captain. One day one of the negritoes that migrated imto the province of (htion CoHide (to liH the 1·equirements of the 4uota system Ia \\) made one of his goals L'ntrance into Section H. Cuento 11 \' the t itlc he responded to. I >oil (the rookie leader of Section B) let Cuento participate. His pan icipation as a rookie was only to look upon the whitanglaxons participating. Active participa till n \\a'> seldom accomplished ny ( uento hut he would not give up. I ime passed. Ihings seem to d1ange only slightly. One year later Cuento had improved his 'kills to participate in Section H. '>kunklon was leader of those \\ ho wamed to go out again. Hut 11 hen time came to chose his team. Skunklon made a dL\claration that there v.ere too lllan_\ c1tirens participating that had the ~ame ~kills and position as Cuento, so he must go. And ~o he lelt. A couple of 11 hitanglaxons had to go to make It look good so that the LORD \\OI:lld not become upset when he realized that Section H was once again lily whitanglaxon. And Skunklon is still wondering why no negritoes came out to participate in SHOOTBALL. And again no negritoes would become involved. In the rookie section. there was a new leader. Rockger at this time. He allowed A rtegrito to participate one negrito. He lound that \His HOY\ had skills 11hich will prove to he very >Uccessful for Section H. But who knows'?'?'??? In the province of Onion .Collide many things happen. l'omorrow there ll1ay he no negritoes in the rookie 'ection. Or maybe no pricans and negritoes in Onion Collide. (And mayhe no aid !rom the Feds). <)uestion: . How much more 'ophisticated can segregation get'! \!oral: Don't cut off vour \negritoes\ and spite your f~ce! .......... ~..--O-~Iil ......... ll...._ • ....._._.,..._.,.._, .... ll.\\e•\\'• .......... ~·~··~··~··--.,••~•.-...•• ..... s'..._ •• ._..l'..._.\'--i\'-41J ............... ._.. •• ....._ • ...._.,...._ Meet Mr. Daughtry Sch'dy Board of Education Mr. William Daughtry is a member of the Schenectady Hoard of Education. He is origina Ily from Boston and has heen in Schenectady since 195 J. He is employed by General l:lectric. Perspective interviewed him at his Regal Avenue home. Mr. Daughtry, (Hill, as he introduced himself), was at first appointed to the hoard in the spring of 1972, to fill a vacancy. He was elected to his present terrn in the fall election of that year. I here were four seats, including his, up for election, then, he was elected from a field of thirteen. Perspective asked him what his duties on the Board were. He replied that he was, \concerned v. ith the full extent of the job.\ A school hoard member's duties, nasically, are to deal with linancial aspect of running a ~chool system, deal with the attitudedlehavior of the membership of the Black Students Alliance not by the name. It should never be forgotten. there should he no apology for and there should be no doubt about the fact that the primary concern of the Alliance is t he a d van ce me n t . d eve I o p- ment well-being of Africans in America and throughout the world. May the .gods of our forefdthers hless. guide and rrotect you. Adef11nmi Co-founder/ex-member of the Hlack Student A lliant:e Mr. William Dauxhtry, memher of Schenectady Board of Education. personnel and negotiate with lahor groups. In addition. a member helps develop policies by which the school system operates. he helps evaluate the system and hires a Superintendent of Schools. I he Superintendent, Mr. I )aughtry said, holds his position at the pleasure of the Hoard. ''Handling a school 1s like handling a husiness. and the !-.tudent is basically the product.\ he said. In Schenectady. there arc a hout twenty-three nuildings and they all need to he administered. I he Board has to insure that each child gets the hcst he can. lhe Superintendent, obviously, must ne ahle to administer well in order to help each child. I or evaluations, the Hoard will. lrom time to time, form committees to consider special aspects of the system, such as the cur~iculum, special education. performance. I· or example, one such wmmittee would investigate why Schenectady elementary school children perform below the State average on the PEP, (Pupil !valuation Performance) test. Mr. Daughtry said that Schenectady's children score ·below the average, hut that the \slope is positive,\ meaning that the situation is not hopeless. He emphasized that he considers himself \on the Hoard as a Board memher doing a joh and not as a Black doing a joh.\ lie feels that, in anv event, he could not do ·anything constructive for the Hlack student of Schenectady unless he knew ahout all the Board's functions. fl is remarks reflect his rather rragmatic character and his activities indicate that he has a \ery strong commitment I or the Black people in ScheJ:Iectadv. Mr. Daughtry was instru~ental 111 starting H lack student organizatiom at Linton and Mt. Pleasant High Schools. and at Steinmetz .I r. High. He illustrated his approach hy describing hov. Continued on Page C I r ( I

es of m o. IS .ly p. a f p is Is d d st I, e h e a e t t First Aid Some of the Black students whG want to becotne physicians have started a class in First Aid. ;J he ·students in the class hope to learn something re:Jated more te their careef goals than what is taught in regular classes, 1'he elass meets Sunday and Thursday 11ights and wiill require a tota'l of 21 h0urs for suc,cessful completion. A few of ·the topics already covered are Ca·rdio-PuJmonary Resuscitation (what to do if ~\t1meone stops hrea.thirtg, or if ~omeone's heart stops beating), and Poisons and Dangerous Drugs (what to do for a victim of poisoning, or- if .s:omeone overdoses) Future t@pics will be Wounds. .dandaging and every. day accident:;;. I he instructor for the course is Mt. James Furey, who works at General Electric's R & D labs. l1e is one of the volunteer instrt1ctors who teaches the course under the auspices of the American 1\atlonal Red Cross. N o.t only is he certified to teach the Standard First Aid cOtlrs~ (which our ~tudents ate- taking), hut the Advanced and ·Emergency Medical Tecnnidans (Ambulance personnel) courses. as well. The students in the class are G Ioria Jones, Raymond Walker and fred Burrows (all sophomores), freshmen Bobby McC!ennan and Wayne Heywood, senior T. Watts and James Mapps, a special student. Hopefully, the -c1as~ will become a regular (uncti~n _.of the Alliance ~upported by both pre-med and other students. It is certain that this type of.class is an excellent means of introducing interested people to medicine (albeit, a superficial introduction), as well as a means. of encouraging people to pursue medicine. · Mr. Daughtry Continued fr9m Page B he addressed the students at Steinmetz. The students received him ..yell at Steinmetz, because of his~ approach. , ·He was not interested in lecturing down to the students, He wanted, among other things, to talk to them about making it. He told them that he felt that every Black student who wanted to co~:~ld make it. That means, if he ·or she .wants to become a iawye.r, then that student can become a lawyer. Not oniy will the Black student be able to help himself by getting the lawyer's salary, he said. but he will be able to help his people. But, he warned, the student \has to make sure he wiU be good ... he can't sell his people short.\ If you ~Ire a had lawyer you will \not be good lor yourself. and you will not .be good for your people ... and your reople need good people. ~0 room for mediocrity.\ Part of his presentation to the Steinmetz students was to tell them of a way they could start helping one another. He wanted each student to feel tim t he was the \big brother\ of the students m the grade helow him. This way. the_ students above could help teach the ones below. Mr. I )aughtry said, however. that the rrogram had not yet been started. I his is not his first position in Schenectady. Mr. Daughtry 'crved from 1961{ to 1'972 on the H ol:ising Authority, anp is now a Committeeman for the I >emocratic ·!.~arty.~ ~e;)\~It: t ~at PERSPECTJVt: Wednesday, Novernber20, 1974 Miscegenation? No, Robert McClennon demonstrates the correct way to give mouth to mouth resus('itation, on a dummy in .first aid class. •••••••••••••••••••••••••••••••••••••••••••••••••••••••••••••••••••••••• Abo.ut that money .... Being Black in American society is tough, but being Black at Union College is somewhat worse. The plight 'of Blacks at Union is · intensified, when damaging statements or remarks are made about the vocal organ of minority. students here, that organ being the Black Student Alliance. In a recent article of Concordy entitled ''Tax Committee in Action\ statements and opinions were expressed that could prove to be very disastrous to Blacks. at Union College. . Upon -reading the article, I hecame very angry witt. remarks made about the B.S.A. In the article, the reporter commented that the B.S.A. was seen as a blatantly segregationai organization. In a private conversation with the writer of said article, she staed th~t this was a commonly held opinjon by whites on thi$ campus. ln my opinion, it has to be the belief of misguided, ignorant whites. How can any one have an opinion of what they kn0w nothing about? Most whites on this cam.pus don't even make a consorted effort to hecome aware of the plight of Black students; let alone of the workings of the Black Student A)liance. Personally, I don't care wnat white students think of me, hut when they try to formulate an idea on the policies of the B.S.A., that upsets rrie to no end. Jf anyone has any questions about the workings of the B.S.A., don't he afraid to ask. 1-u'rther in the article, statements were made by a- member of the~ Tax Committee that only added fuel to my already incensed .anger. I his member stated that the B.S.A. budget was given with the understanding· that the organization \extend its activities to the rest of this cl}mpus\. ·In the past, present, and supposedly in the future, all B.S.A. functions are open to members of this college community. Members of the ·Alliance cannot be held responsible for the lack of a ttenda nee shown by whites at B.S.A. functions. Since I am not a member of the ·white race, I cannot begin to assume the reasoning behind refusal to participate with Blacks .. in various activities. On the other side of the ~:oin. Blacks , do not readily participate tn white-related Junctions due to the open hostilities demonstrated by whites against Blacks, but the main reason being the inability to identify with them. On the whole. Black entertainme.nt, and white Freshman Play emerta1nme.nt are on different levels, and its upt·o you to decide who's on the highest. The member of the Tax Committee goes on to say that if the B.S.A . .is not an organization for the entire campus, it will be rerceived in a ttiuch different light next year. ln talking with that member of the Tax Committee, he explained that t-his statement s~ould not be looked at as any type of warning. but regardless of what he says, I can only read that statement as some type of tl)reat. Who is to be the judge of whether· or not the Alliance is an \open\ ·organization'? If whites don't want to participate in Black-related activities, should we suffer? This statement suggested a cut in the future budget of the B.S.A., though this implication was later denied. If the B.S.A. is financially renalized for lack of participation hy whites, so should a lot ef down campus organizations for their lack of openess to Blacks. The essence of the article that dealt with the Alliance suggests to me, that if the Black Student Alliance does not cater to the likes and dislikes of white students, the activities of Black students will definitely suffer. If this is the case, I suggest that white administrators take their mon'ey, and eat it for lunch. Marilyn Vannessa Becton •••••••••••••••••••••• Page C Communication, the Real Problem I her~ has been lots of talk ahout the downfalls of Union. One of the most prominent topics of discussion is. racial tension. I here ate many reasons .for this. I contend that they come down to one thing, that being lack of communication and/or the lack of willingness to communicate. Communicating with .people is in general a very difficult thing to do. Although we all speak the ~ame language there definitely are 'orne barriers. The questions are: (I) What are these barriers? (2) \\hat can\WE\ do to break them down'? The answer to the first question is actually quite simple. We all speak English but we ''reak differen~ variations or tones of the Ianguage.The reason being that we aren't all of the same race, ~ex. cultural or religious h:wkground. Thus we ,are the 'arne people, while -,imultaneously we are quite different. \ow that we recognize what the barriers are let's move to the next question. This is my suggestion to it. I feel that they ~:an be overcome to a satisfying degree. When making a sincere effort to communicate with some one, especially someone very different from what you are accustomed to, keep in mind that ~ ou and that other person do have one thing in common. Both of you are human beings. I herefore, reasonably speaking of course, one should not be afndd of the other person. Perhaps the position of fear held by the white person when talking to a Black person is the meat of my entire article. Unless a person is totally ridiculous. This· however is not to 'a~· that either of the two persons 'hould not be cautious. (Cautious in the sense that neither persor. ~hould be trying to make the other feel inferior) Overcoming or heing aware of this fear and being aware of what you say and how it affects the other person are two positive steps toward breaking down the barrier. Concluding, I would like to leave you with this idea. This communication blockage has heen in existence for many years. Don't think it can be broken down (even on an individual level) with just one singular effort. I he efforts of hoth persons must he continuous and sincere. Before my last statement I would like to .,ay that I try to· get along with anyone if \YOU\ meet me halfway. If you are truly interested in talking to me at length I live in Webster house room 103. Don't be afraid to seek me out! IF AT FIRST YOU DON\T SUCCEED TRY AND TRY !\GAIN. Lawrence E. Cooke •••••••••••••••••••••• the small effect (for Black people) he had on the Housing Authority was partly due because he was in a minority in two ways: he Was Black and he was a Democrat. He 1s not certain whether. he wants to become more involved in politics. As he drove me back to the cam.pus, I was trying to decide whitt I had learned . from my :tHferview about Mr .. -Daughtry. Basicalfy, my impressions oi' him at our first meeting was that he .JUst HAD to be married .(he is). I thought that he would he the type of 1950's \militant\ .(that'!> a ter01 he ·wouldn't approve .of) who \\ ould both be staunchly pro- Black (he is: he bought his htJme lrom a lllack dealer, he hited a Black carpenter to <fo some work in his home., he went to the Black Political Conventioti· in Gary. lridi~ma fn 1972) and. at the same time, willing to \work withln the \\Stem\ as a sole ~olitical nieatis. (ienerally. I Was not surprised to lind that he seerned to uphold my theory. ·In a way. l like those 1ifties \revolutionaries'' because thev made such a tremendous •de~>logicltl transition. After a 11. I \\ ouldn't even he here if it were not for the ••revoluti(marles\ like him. Since I have been back this year I have been well aware of the integration mMerrient instit11ted hy those wolves in sheeps clothing down ·~ampus. Their \movement'' has effected almost everyone so la.r and the drama program had its slu.re too. Why the Acts and no Action? I heard a reliable rumor that the freshman play this year had tp he one that allowed Hlack people roies for which we· could try out. I'm going on the ass11mption that this is.,true. I'he Freshman play. ''You Can't Take It With You,\. has two roles for minoritystudents. I ell me though. why is it that the roles had to be of a suhse.rvient nature'~ Yup. t.here was a maid. and a houst;ohoy. This. play i:5 a perfect example of white people disp·Iaying the.ir racism in an attempt to include Black people. Keep in mind that I arn assui11g that Barr\· Smith. director. chose thf play- with the request for Black rnfes. in mind. lf he didn't chose the .rlay, he still had to approve it. before he could direct it. and I don't know which is Cootinued on Page D In the past few weeks. a number of meetings have been held with members of the faculty, administration. and student hody. I hese meetings dealt with the adversities that Black students laced. at U ninn CoHege. These adversities included hlatant and o..uhtle racism snown hy white laculty and administrators against Black students. The meetings dragged on as Black students horrified theil' audience with tales Z1f bad .grades given due to race. and of the lack of interest shown them bv administrators. The ~hocked -look on the races oi those in attendance at the meetings could have netted them all an academv award. It seems rather shocking tn me that those people were so appalled at the treatment 1if Black ~tudent:;,,when they.:ve beeil awar~ Marilyn Becton of the sttua.uon for year~. Hlacks on this campus have constantly tried to make administrators aware of their desperate situation. only to be totally rejecTed and forgotten. At this meeting were the so- called \liherals\ of Union College. A cou pie of the stories told by Blacks there. dealt directly with laculty and administrators at the llleetings. and those were the main people who were so appalled hy the \shock\ stories. \ly feelings toward these race relation meetings are those of mdifference. It's all right to see \\ h·ite people make an effort to understand the problems of Blacks at Union, but if th~ results of these meetings end in the lorming of still another \committee my feelings of rndifference will surmount to liHlse (lf disgust. · · · • · · . .

of he is 'flS r. to ar H. ut a () at In D ce to L. ld re 1e er a! ol te il re at g ·W IS a d t. d First Aid Some of the Hlack students 1\ ho want to become physicians II ave started a class in First Aid. I he student~ in the class nope to leam sornetning related more to their career goals than what is taught in regular classes. The class meets Sunday and l\hursday nights and will require a total of 21 hours for successful completion. :\ few of the torics already covered are ( 'ard io-Pu lmonary Re;uscitation (what to do if - 'omeome stor' hreathil'lg, or if 'omeone\ heart ~tops heating). and Poisons and Dangerous Dmgs (\\hat to do for a\ ictim of poisoning. or if someone ,,\crdmc') t·uturc topics will he \\ nunds. dandaging and ewry- dav accidents. I he instructor for the course is \.-1 r. James Furey. who works at (ieneral Electric's R & D labs. He IS one of the volunteer instructors 11ho teaches the course under the auspices of the American \ational Red Cross. Not only is he certified to teach the Standard I· ir't Aid course (which our students are taking), but the Advanced and Emergency \11 edical Technicians (Ambulance personnel) courses. as well. I he students in the class are (i!oria Jones. Raymond Walker and Fred Burrows (all sophomores). freshmen Bobby :V1cClennan and Wayne Heywood. senior I. Watts and .lames Mapps. a special student. ll ope fully. the class will become a regular function .of the Alliance 'upported by both pre-med and (lther students. It is certain that this type of class is an excellent means of introducing interested people to medicine (albeit. a 'uperficial introdl:lction). as well <JS a means of encouraging people to pursue medicine. Mr. Daughtry Continued from Page B he addressed the students at Steinmetz. The students received him well at Steinmet7. because of his arproach. lie was not interested in lecturing down to the ~tudents. He wanted. among other things. to talk to them about making it. He told them that he felt that every Black student who wanted fo could make it. !'hat means. if he or she wants to become a iawyer. then that student can hecome a lawyer. ~ot only will tile Hlack student he able to help him,elf hy getting the lawyer's >ala!}·. he said. hut he \\ill he ah le to help his people. Hut. he \larned. the student \has to make 'lire he will he good ... he can't 'ell his people short.\ If you are a had lawyer you \\ill \not oc good lor yourself. and you will not he ,l!ood for your people ... and your people need good people. :\ o room for ·mediocrity.\ Part of his presentation to the ~teinmetl students was to tell them of a way they could ~tart help.ing one another. He \\anted each student to feel that he was the \big brother\ of the students 111 the grade below him. lhis way. the '>ludeRts ahovc could help t~ach the ones helow. Mr. I >a ughtry said. however. that the program had not yet heen started. I hi~ i' not his first rosition in \chenectady. Mr. Daughtry 'encd from fl)(lX to IY72 on the llousing Authority. and is now a < ornmittecman for the l>e mocra tic I' arty. He 1i: It that PERSPECTIVE.~ Wednesday, November 20, 1974 Miscegenation? No, Roher! McClennon demonstrates the correct way to gi,·e mouth lo mouth resuscitation, on a dummr in first aid class. ••••••••••••••••••••••••••••••••••••••••••••••••••••••••••••••••••••• About that money .... Heing Black in Amencan society is tough. but being Black at Union College is somewhat worse. The plight of Blacks at llnion is intensified. when damaging statements or remarks are made about the vocal organ of minority students here, that organ beiRg the Black Student Alliance. In a recent article of(' oncordy entitled \Tax Committee in i\ction\ statements and opinions \\ere expressed that could prove to be very disastrous to Hlacks at l nion College. l :ron reading the article, I hecame very angry wit! remarks made about the H.S.A. In the article. the reporter commented that the H.S.A. was seen as a blatantly segregational organi7ation. In a private conversation with the writer of said article. she staed that this \\as a commonly held opiPion b) \\ hites on this campus. l n my opinion. it has to be the belief of mi~guided. ignorant whites. How can any one have an opinion of \\nat they knP\\ nothing about'! \1ost whites on this campus don't even make a consorted effort to hecome aware of the plight of Hlack students, let alone of the \\orkings of the Hlack Student Alliance. Personally. I don't care v.nat white students think of me. but when they try to formulate an 1dea on the policies of the H.S.A .. that upsets me to no end. If anyone has any questions about the workings of the l:l.S,A .• don't he afraid to ask. I urther in thearticle.statements \\ere made by a member of the I ax Committee that only added lucl to my already incensed anger. I his memher stated that the B.S.A. budget was given with the understanding that the organization \extend its activities to the rest of this campus\. In the past. present. and ~up posed ly in the future. all H.S.A. functions are open to memhers of this college community. Memhers of the Alliance cannot be held re,ponsihle for the lack of attendance shown hv whites at B.S.A. functions. Since I am not a member of the white race. I cannot hegin to assume the reasoning hchind refusal to participate with Hlacks. in \arious aeti> itics. On the other side of the L·oin. Hlacb do Hot readily participate in white-related lunctiom due to the open II o~ tilitics demonstrated by whites against Hlacks. hut the main reason heing the inability to identify with them. On the whole. Black entertainment. and \\ hitc Freshman Play emertamment are on different levels. and its up to you to decide \\ ho\ on the highest. I he member of the fax Committee goes on to say that if the H.S,A. i~ not an organi1.ation lor the entire campus. it will be rerceivcd in a much different light next year. In talking with that member of the Tax Committee. he explained that this statement should not he looked at as anv type of warning. hut regardless <;f \\hat he says. I can only read that ~tatement as some type of threat. Who is to he the judge of whether or not the Alliance is an \open\ nrganization'? It whites don't want to participate in Hlack-related activities, should we suffer? I his \tatcment suggested a cut in the future budget of the B.S.A .. though this implication was later denied. If the B.S.A. is financiallv rena li7ed for lack of participa tio~ hy whites. so should a lot of down L·ampus organi7ations for their lack of openess to Blacks. I he essence of the article that dealt with the Alliance suggests to me. that if the Black Student Alliance does not cater to the likes and dislikes of white students. the activities of Black 'tudents will definitely suffer. It this is the case. I ~uggest that \\ hite administrator~ take their money. and eat rt lor lunch. :\1 arilyn Vannessa Becton •••••••••••••••••••••• Page C Communication, the Real Proble,m I here has heen lots of talk ahout the downfalls of Union, ( >nc of the most prominent topics llf discmsion i~ racial tension. I here arc many reasons for this. I contend that they come down to une thing. that heing lack of Lommunication and or the lack uf \\ illingne;~ Ill commLmicate. ( 'ommunimting with people i~ m general a \cry difficult thing to dll. Although we all ~peak the .. amc language there ddinitel~ are 'ome harriers. I he que;tion~ are: (I) What arc the,e harrier~·~ ( 2) \\hat can \'WI\ do tn hreak them do\\ n'! I he an;.\\er to the lirst que,tilln i-. actually LJ uite 'imp !e. \\e all \peak Inglish but v.e 'peak different \ariatiom or tone~ nf thL' lan!!U~t!!<.'. I ill· rea,un heing that \\l' aren't all ol the '\me rae~:. 'e\. L'llltural lH rc!Jgiou' had.ground I hu-. \H' are the ' a m e r l' 0 p I c . \\ h I I e -.imultaneomly \\e arc LJUitc different. \ow that we recognize \\hat the harriers are let'~ move to the next lJUe~tion. Ihis is my 'uggc\tion to it. I feel that they L·an he oven.:ome to a ~atisfying degree. When making a sincere dfort to communicate with some Pnc. especially someone wry different from what you are accustomed to. keep in mind that you and that other person do ha\e one thing in common. Both tlf you are human beings. I herefore. reasonably speaking of course. one should not be afraid nf the other person, Perhaps the ro~ition of lear held hy the white rerson \\hen talking to a Hlack rer;,on is the meat of my entire ;t rticle. l'nless a person is totally ridiculou~. I his· however is not to -.a;. that either of the two persons ,JJOuld not he cautious. (Cautiou~ Ill the sense that neither persor, ,flould he tryir.g to make the t>lher feel mferior) Owrcoming or heing aware of this fear and heing ~J\\arc of what you say and how it a fleets the other person are tv. o ro~iti\L' -.tep~ toward hreaking do\\ n the harrier. l·oncluding. I would like to lea\l' you with thi~ idea. I his commumcation blockage ha~ heen in existence lor many years. I lon't think it can he hroken dm\n !even on an individual le\el) w 1th ju~t one singular effort. I he efforts of hoth per~ons must he continuou~ and -;incere. Hefore 1m la~t 'o!atement I would like to -.ay that I try t\) get alnng v.ith ;~n~one If \YOl\' meet me halfwa~. II you are truly Interested rn talking to me at length I liH' m Weh~ter house 1oom 103. Don't he afraid to 'eek me out! a· A I I-IRS I YOl D0:\'1 '->l'CCLFD IRY A'\1) IRY \(iAI\. Lawrence E. Cooke ••••••••••••••••••s••• the small effect (for Hlack people) he had on the Housing Authority ''as partly due because he was in a minority in two way~: he wm Black and he was a Democrat. He ~~not certain whether he want~ to hecome more involved in politics. A~ he drove me hack to the L'ampus. I was trying to decide ''hat I had learned t rom my Interview ahout Mr. Daughtry, Basically. my imrrcssions of him at our fint meeting was that he Jlht HAD to he married (he i;). I thought that he\\ ould he the type t>f l ()50's \militant\ (that'\ a term ilc v.ouldn't approve of.) v.ho \\ot!ld hoth he ~taunchl~ pro- Black (he is: he hough! his home lrom a Hlack dealer. he hired a Black carpenter to do 'orne \\ork 111 his hoillL'. he went to the 1-Jiack l'olitical Convention 1n C iary. lnd 1itna In I Y 72) and. at the ,;une time. willing to \work within the '~'tem\ as a ~ole political mean~, < •enerall~·. I Wit' nlll wrprised to I ind that he '>eemcd to uphold m~ t heurv. In a \\a\. I like t ho~e lillie; \revolutio~aries\ because thC\ made such a tremendous Ideological transition. After all. I ''ouldn't even he here if it \\ere not for the \revolutionaries\ like him. ~incc I have been back this ~car I ha\e hcen well aware of the mtegration movement instituted hy tho•:e wohcs in sheeps clothing do\\n ·-ampm. I heir \movement\ hits eHcctcd a !most everyone ~o lar and the drama program had 1t' siH. re too. Why the Acts and no Action? I heard a reliable rumor that the freshman rlay this year had to he one that allowed Black rcople roles lor \\hlch we could try nut. I'm going on the assumption that this is true. I he 1-reshman pli!y. \You Can't I ake It With You.\ hast wo roles lor min oritys tudent~. I ell me though. wh~ is it that the roles had to he of a suhservient natmc'! Yur. there was a maid. and a h ou ~choy. I his play is a perfect examrle of white people displaying their racism in an attempt to include Black people. Keep in mind that I am assuing that HalT\ Smith. director. chose the pia~ \\ ith the request for Black rnle~ in mind. If he didn't cho~e the play. he -.till had to approve it. before he could direct i•. and I don't know which 1s Continued on Page D In the ra-.t k\\ \\eeb. a num her ol meetings ha\e heen held v. ith member!-. o! the faculty. admini;,tration. and student hodv, ll!ese meetings dealt with the <Jd\t::rsities that Black qudcnts laced at lmon College. I hese dd\crsities included blatant and 'uhtle raci'm 'hown h~ \\ hite laculty and administrators agaimt Hlack ~tudents. 1 he meeting~ dragged on a~ Black \ludents horrif icd their audience with tales pf had grades gi\en due to race. and of the lack of interest shown them hv administrators. I he ,IJoeked look on the faces of those 1n attendance at the meeting' CtlUid have netted them all an academy av.ard, It ~eems rather 'hocking to me that thme people were 'n .tppalled at the treatment of Black 'tudenb. \\hen they\·c heen aware Marilyn Berton ,,f the '1tuatwn for .\l'<H>. Black-. on this cam pu> have consta ntl) tried to make administrators <J\\are nf their desperate situation. on!~ to he totally reJecTed and lorgottcn. \t this meeting \\ere the so- L·allcd \liberal<' nf l'nion College. \ couple of the ~tories told O_\ Blacb there. dealt din.·ctly \~ith !acuity and administrators at the meeting,, and those 11ere the lll:t Ill people \\ ho \\ere \0 .1ppalfed h~ the '\hock\ 'tone~. \ly feeling;, to\\ard t hcse race relation meeting~ arc tho~e of mdiiTcrence. It\ all right to ~ee 11 hite peopk make an effort to under~tand the prohlems of Blacb at t: nion. hut If the rc~ults <~f these meeting; end 1n the lorm1ng of qill another \committee.\ my feeling~ nf mdiffcrence wtll surmount to tiH\se llf disgust.

PageD Why Natural? Next! (Oh that chair! Jesus, that chair It's gon.na fire me up It's gonna burn me down) (SSSt! Ouch!) Hush child That's only the water yr)' hair's still damp (.SSSt!) Hush Child It's only the grease It's just the Royal Crown (SSSt! (Ouch!) liush Child! I{you don't hold your ear down How can I do it right lfyou don't Sit yo' butt still! <SSSt!) (OOOwee Lord! If you've ever heard my prayer L~t my hair be Let me never have to sit under this heat, again ~ ' \ ( ' r_ ~ • t \ ·. :l. ..-,. \ ;,. t ' ~ . \\ \ • ' \. .., . ~ PERSPECTIVE: Wednesday, Novemb~r 20; 1974 Dr. Nat han wright . ' \The Ho II se\ Continued ,from Pa;e A RE: The Union College Community · · · · · · those rati<Js overnight, bl!.t none fhe more than just rumored plans· to mo-ve the of Davidson which only housed men, It was too have. Black Cultural Center down campus must be expensive for many of the brothers so we were On the subject of intelligence ·thwarted. scattered aH over the campus ~ all treated as testing, Dr. Wright changed the I came here as a freshman, living down invisi.ble men and women. Two of us here,. two of LQ. to S .Q., meaning ''Survival campus in the so called mainstream of things. It· us there. No feeling of'unity. No place to call our Quotient.'~ The testing of surviva-l was rny first term here. My attitude was good, own. Nothing. abiliti4;:s. was more important than. ' after all I graduated with just about every honor We decided as an organi;zation that in order to intelligence, the way the tests are there was from .high school. Of co1,1Iise I'd do survive here we· needed a place, ·a common today: It was here that he fully, equally as weii here in college. I found that the ground, ahouse where we could be accl,!pted,. our established his conviction thal seven other black women in mY. class had similar intelligence would be nbalized, our langqage Black people, having the ability backgrounds and attitudes. By 'the end of aur would not be corrected but spoken by and \to look at reality in ter.rns of the .first term here ·we were no ~ longer going ·to be understood by -ali. inner world.\ have the greatest doctors and lawyers as planned but teachers, , The results of these efforts is Hickok House. potential form of intelligence, secretaries, and writers. The chance to :receive lfs sad that we feel like we have to get away because ·that is also how the . honors was n~ver there, By the end of our from doW:n campus as !:lOOn as classes are over genius looks at reality. · · freshman year we'd all seen so many \D's\ and but that's the ~ay it is. That's how We're made to Though Dr. Wright admittedly \'Ps\ that we actually began questioning our · feel at ,our own four year home. wandered from· his proposed intelligence. So we sought out each other for Now, when things get us down we run to agenda, I ~a the red that the text of tefuge and in sharing our tales of failure ()arne to Hickok, our refuge and to each otheL his lecture was pointed at thl.! fact the realization that it :wasn't us. We weren't Since moving into Hickok I've watched us that there is a difference ·between dumb, We just happened tO be a feW shades too becom.e ~tronger and ~~more effective as. an whites· and Blacks which should. dark. organization and much happier as a people be recognizee! before any other To make things even ~worse we didn't .• 'fit ·because as· the freshman classes have come in t:urther headw,ay -can be made. socially either. Our culture was negated on this · they've had' the burden .of self doubt made a little The altogether too brief campus as well as our intelligence. Naturally otiF · less heavy th~n that of my class. /\ question and answer period that • black English - our language wasn't accepted Four of the eight ot u~ are seniors (the other followed -was a tough one. One either. All we had was each other. We were down (our have_gope). We've see:Q the progress and the question railij(d was \Will Black ~ampus all right, certainly not invisible, just ·constant struggl'e to keep Hickok House as our people in anOt-her decade try to tgnored. We became ·painfully awar.e of the fact house and ~g'IJ continue this struggle unless of move in to what we consider the that we'd have to spend four long years trying to ·course tliii-~rnore than just rumored plans to mve white community while accepting make a home in: a place that could never be our us down campw~ becomes the more than just their Blackness and continuing to home. It's like being adopted by parents who rumored FORGOTTEN plans. ln other. words Please Lawd, Ooh Lawd!) Hush that mumblin', chile Bend your neck, so I can kitchen accept it't' To this D.r. Wright want the federal checks they get for keeping you this, house represents too much to us as black git yo' said \I don't know and cannot but who don't really want you. people and ·we don't EVEN intend to give it lip predict. The oppressed during the At that time the B.S. A. was housed in a c.orner now. . SSSt! (Yiiiii!) process of seeking liber»tion for .• . Sharon Brown ~ ._.'e! .... o!!:•. •.!_ttl tllllf ··!!.'• •••••• ···~ •••••• 'eX!! ~~···· ··~·· ···~--~.!_·0· '•':!:: ····\• ...... lol•ll. fIe ·te I I... If I • • I I eJ I , , t .them selves a·re by de fin i ti en· the :~~:::::.:·=::::::::=::::~::.:=::::::::~:::~··~:::~-$.::.~~:::~=~~:.:=::::::~-.::=::~!~:::.~:::::::~:::::::~:::::::~:=~.::~:~::~:::::::::=::~:==:::::::::::;::f.-:=:;::::::;:::~::::::::~:~=:::;::::::::::::~:::.:·:::::.~ Hush child I'm almost done Just you don't get in the sun and sweat it back most humane and the ffi'OSt · - •• ••• ••• ••• •·• • ·• .--. ··········'I; ...... ······- •.•.•a ··:~:·. -.:._ liberating agents immediately in this meeting would help~ but I about. If it weren't for my the world.\\Because white people don't see how,\ to Which Dr. conviction I would not he here have distorted and limited their Wright said, \ ... just ask any of tonight.\ unuer tne burden of the day. White. p~ople have always asked ·us to do the dirty work and we have been always obliging.\ 2) i'tch/ itch/ itch (C'mon miss lady wash this stuff out of my hair fore l burn alive!) (0,00ch/ itch/ ooch) D6n't you scratch your head- ten more miputes to go Hush yo' cryin' n0w It'll be a short time ' (A short time lawd a sl\ort time please let it be let }ny hair be This rotten egg smell is k.illin' me) own lives by the abuse of ours, l'he Black students or Faculty Dt. Bo~ner got' up to speak doesn't mean we should protest after the meeting; I think. that's again at exactly 8:30. when Dr. these niggers from being like us, lilir enough because you were Wright had closed ·his, session they should have their own really putting me in a bind ... that with Union College. He said that choice.\ is a taunt and it's very rude.\ A Or. Wright had done what he was 3) Wash, rinse, dry pic-k, pick, pick, pick .< Lawd, pick, pick, I'm so glad you let my hair naturallyr) One other question was notable few more words passed between invited for and that w-as to \aim because of br. Wright's -answer. the two, but unless something at the gut level of reaction t~' The question came from a white went on of which l was not provoke the kind of intellectual male, at the college level and this aware, I couldn't justify Dr. response to follow. And if we stop is what he asked, \As · 1 Wright's reprimand. here tQnight.., .and don't begin interpreted what you are saying, ·In another question posed by the kind of dialogue of whites you are .saying that the . white Dean Smith, the Dean wondered with Blacks, Bll!-cks with Whites, people should become more what could be .done to help Black students with faculty that I think aware of their backgrou~d. but students \who enter into a is called for on this campus then when I leave this room unless you curriculum which is rigged to tell it will have been a failure, but i,f answer th.is question I don't see them nDt to open their mouths.\ some good things of that kind do how I'm. going to do that.\ Dr. Dr. Wright's answer was \Do come out of the meeting then it. Wright broke. in with. \If the what we are doing tonight.\ He will have been a great 'success . .-' future of your life depends on me, then said that since so many To which Dr. Wright said~ \Black be, I don't want to take on that school bigshots were present it people h-ave been among the most 'responsibility.\ The student then may help \some semblance· of loyal citizens, in this said, \Well its just that I thought order or restoration to come coun~ry ... we've· always held up 1 • , 1 • - \Consider the Queen\ (to all Black men in their gloryl Black Woman is your queen Your love Your mother The mother of your children She is proud and respected Respected by all!? lf.this is so then why embarrass her, belittle her and humiliate her in the presence of others? Is she not worthy of . such consideration? Is she really your \QUEEN\? D0 YOU see her as a queen? Or is that just another fragment of your vocabulary? Yo1.1 black men are strong but have been held down so long that you constantly have to test your strength? Your queen is well aware of your strength. Humiliation of her will destro¥ her trust and love in y\ou her black man- which is a sign of your weakness but by no means of your strength. UTAMU w······••o•············ : Sunday at 9:00 there will be o : a meeting of the Technical • • Committee in Hickok Lounge. : : The basic aim of the : • committee is to show people • : how to install and service the : • eltctronic equipment, sound • : systems, lighting, etc. The : : pepple of the committee will • e be called on for Alliance : : functions when needed; I)lease, : e Don't keep Tony waiting! • ······················= r--~-~-:--~~--·-,· ,.- 1 DID YOU KNOW... I. I President Bonner became I I the first Caucasian to have his I I photograph in Perspective. I 1.-- .... -li!M ...... ·- ... -----~' I .... On th.e Couch ..... Fresh.m~n Play Con~inued from Page C ' . Wvrse. An~l._ naturally the choice had to be a play With Blacks as · servants. , _1 sa~- _.tne I?l~( .. Ia~t Saturday tnght, ·and wheh viewed just as a play for entertainment that was didactic in nature, it · Was a reasonably well acted~play. It held interest, it showed realistic life for the time in which the play was set, So far so good. 'Fhe set was beautifully· constructed to fit the play, and the family even considered its good little \colored people'' as part of the family at one point i-n the play. But when looked at for the reason the play was chosen, there is nothing here other than racism that .says, \o.k. we'll get a pla:y for Blacks to be in, but we won't let them 0 ut of those roles.\ .In other words they fixed it so that we had two roles at the most to fill, and when casting I'm sure they never considered us for 'any other role in the play or that the fam,ily could have b_een all Black playing in _white face, since they constdered doing that to one of our Black roles. Why couldn't a play. have been chesen that the parts would have been equal not degrading, ·and would have portrayed · Black p~ople as l:mmans and' not as servants? My point is that the reasoning that white folks used to do things geared at ·integration and accepting us Rlack folk expose more of th'eir racism than being a plain old racist would. One could argue that first of all, not many Blacks tried out for the play. That's all the more reason that the play's roles should have been interchangeable in nature. Besides, who the hell wants to be ina role like than in YCTIWY'! One could also argue what more we want from white people,\ because they made the effort. That's a Jot of cowdung. It is not the thought in this case that counts, it is the actual action. \ow, I'd like to say that this is my opinion. and' though others agree wth me, it is not a consorted opinion of. the Black Student Alliance. lf there is anyone who can dear up this matter ifi my mind, please contact .~;~\ rm. · 108 n1ckok. Se Se Se Se

Page D I ' PERSPECT/Vt: Wednesday, Novemb~r 20, 1974 ---· Why Natural? Next! (Oh that chair! Jesu~. that chair It's gonna tire me up It's gonna burn me down) (SSSt! Ouch!) Hush child Thafs only the water yo' hair\ still damp (SSSt!) Hush Child It's only the grease It's just the Royal Crown <SSSt! (Ouch!) Hush Child! If you don't hold vour ear down How can I do it right It you don't Sit yo' butt still! (SSSt!) (000wee Lord! II you\e ever heard my prayer Let my hair be Let me never have to sit under this heat. again Please Lawd, Ooh Lawd!) Hush that mumblin'. chile Bend your neck. so I can git yo' kitchen SSSt! (Yiiiii! J Hush child I'm almost done Ju::-.t you don't get in the sun and sweat it back 2) itch itch, itch (C'mon miss lady wash this stutl out ot mv hair lore I burn alive!) · (000ch ·itch ooch) Don't you ~cratch :-our head ten more mipute~ to go Hush yo' cryin' n(w. It'll be a short time (A short time lawd a short time please let it he let m:- hair he ·r his rotten egg smell is kill in' me) 3) Wash, rinse. dn pick. pick, pick. p.1ck ( La\\>d. pick. p1ck. I'm ;,o glad you let mv ha1r be. naturally!) Dr. Nathan Wright Contin11ed from Pa_ge A thost: ratitls overmght, but none have. On the subject of intelligeRce testing, Dr. Wright changed the I.Q. to S.Q., meaning \Survival Quotient.\ The testing of survival abilities was more important than intelligence, the way the tests are today. It was here ti;}at he fully established his conviction that Black people, having the ability \to look at reality in terms of the inner world,\ have the greatest potential form of intelligence, hecause that is also how the genius looks at reality. !hough Dr. Wright admittedly wandered from his proposed agenda, I gathered that the text of his lecture was pointed at the fact that there is a difference between whites and Blacks which should be recognized before any other further headway can be made. I he a }together too brief question and answer period that tollowed was a tough one. One question rai~d was \WiH Black people in an<5ther decade try to move in to what we consider the white community while accepting their Blackness and continuing to accept it?'\ To this Dr. Wright said \1 don't know and cannot predict. The oppressed during the process of seeking libera)ion for themselves are by definition the most humane and the most liberating agents immediately in the world.\ \Because white people have distorted and limited their own lives by the abuse of o1:1rs, doesn't me all we should protest these niggers from being like us, they should have their own choice.\ One other question was notable because of Dr. Wr.ight's answer. I he question came from a white male, at the college level and this is what he asked, \As I mtcrpreted what you are saying, ~ou are saying that the white people should become more aware of their background. but when I Jca,·c this room unless you answer this LJUestion I don't see how I'm going to do that.\ Dr. Wright broke in with, \If the I uture of your life depends on me, I don't want to take on that responsibility_\ The student then ~aid, \Well its just that I thought \Consider the Queen\ (to all Black men in their glory} Black woman is your queen Your love Your mother The mother of your children She is proud and respected Respected by all!? If this is so then why embarrass her. belittle her and humiliate her in the presence of others'! Is she not worthy ot such consideration'! Is she really your \QUEEN\'! Do YOU see her as a queen'! Or is that just another fragment of your vocabulary'! Yo4 black men are strong but have been held down so long that you constantly have to test your strength? Your queen is well aware of your strength. Humiliation of her will destroy her trust and love in vou, her black man~ which is a sign of vour weakness but bv n.o means of your strength. . . lJTAMU ~······················ : Sunday at 9:00 there will be e : a meeting of the Technical • • C'ommittee in Hickok Lounge. : : The basic aim of the : • committee is to show people • : how to install and service the : • electronic equipment, sound • : 'iystemo;;, lighting, etc. The : • people of the comrr.ittee will • • • o he called on for Alliance o : furtc!ions when needed. Please, : : Don I keep I uny waiting! • ..................... : r-----~------l 1 DID YOC KNOW... I I President Bonner became I I the first Caucasian to have his I I photograph in Perspective. I L------------·' I - ·---------- \The House\ ~, RE: The Union College Community I he more than just rumored plans to move the of Dav:idso_fl which onl_Y housed men. It was too Black Cultural Center down campus must be expensiVe for many of the brothers so we were thwarted. scattered aH over the campus -- all treated as invisible men and women. Two of us here, two of us there. No feeling of unity. No place to call our own. Nothing. I came here as a freshman. living down campus in the so called mainstream of things. lt was my first term here. My attitude was good, after all I graduated with just about every honor tNere was from high school. Of course I'd do equally as well here in coilege. 1 found that the seven other black women in my class had si,milar backgrounds and attitudes. By the end of our first term here ·we were no ·, longer going to be doctors and lawyers as platmed but teachers. secreta.ries, and writers. The chance to receive honors was never there. By the end of our freshman year we'd all seen so many \D's\ and \Ps\ that we actually began questioning our intelligence. So we sought out each other for refuge and in sharing our tales of failure came to the realization that it wasn't us. We weren't dumb. we just happened to be a few shades too dark. To make things even worse we didN't fit socially either. Our culture was negated on this campus as well as our intelligence. Naturally our . black English - our language wasn't accepted ~i!.h~r. All we had was each other. We were down campus all right, certainly not invisible, just ignored. We became painfully aware of the fact that we'd have to spend four long years trying to make a home in a place that could never be our home. It's like being adopted by parents who want the federal checks they get for keeping you but who don't really want you. At that time the B.S.A. was housed in a corner We decided as an organization that in order to survive here we· needed a place. a common ground. a house where we could be accepted, o1u intelligence would be realized, our language would not be corrected but spoken by and Uflderstood by all. The results of these efforts is Hickok House. It's sad that we feel like we have to get away from down ca:mpus as soon as classes are over but that's the way i.t is. That's how we're made to feel at our own four year home. Now, when thiNgs get us down we run to Hickok, our refuge and to each other. Since moving into Hickok I've watched us become stronger and more effective as an organizati.on and much happier as a people because as the freshman classes have come in they've had the burden of self doubt made a little less heavy then that of my class. F O\:lr of the eight of us are seniors (the other four have gone). We've seen the progress and the constant struggle to keep Hickok House as our house and we'll continue this struggle unless of course the more than just rumored plans to mve us down campus becomes the more than just rumored FORGOTTEN plans. In other words this house represents too much to us as black people and we don't EVEN intend to give it up now. this meeting would help, hut I about. If it weren't for my don't see how,\ to which Dr. conviction 1 would not be here \\'right said, \ ... just ask any of tonight.\ the Black students or Faculty Dr. Bonner got up to speak after the meeting~ I think that's again at exactly 8:30 when Dr. lair enough because you were Wright had closed his session really putting me in a bind ... that v.ith Union College. He said that is a taunt and it's very rude.\ A Dr. Wright had done what he was lew more words passed between invited for and that was to \aim the two, but unless something at the gut level of reaction to v.ent on of which I was not provoke the kind of intellectual aware, I couldn't justify Dr. response to tallow. And if we stop Wright's reprimand. here tonight. .. and don't begin unuer tne burden ol the day. White people have always asked us to do the dirty work and we have been always obliging.\ In another question posed by the kind of dialogue of whites Dean Smith. the Dean wondered v. ith Blacks. Blacks with Whites, \\hat could be done to help Black -.tudents with faculty that 1 think ~tudents \who enter into a 1s called for on this campus then curriculum which is rigged to tell 1t will have been a failure, hut if them not to open their mouths.\ ~ome good things of that kind do Dr. Wright's answer was \Do come out of the meeting then it what we are doing tonight.\ He v. ill have been a great success.\ then said that since so many I o which Dr. Wright said, \Black ~chool higshots were present it people have been among the most may help \some semblance of loyal citizens, in this order or restoration to come country .. we've always held up ' ' .... On th.e Couch ..... Freshman Play Continued from Page C wvrse. And. naturally the choice had to be a play with Blacks as servants. I saw the play last Saturday night, and when 'viewed just a~ a play for entertainment that was didactic in nature. it was a reasonably well acted play. It held inteFest, it showed realistic life for the time in which the play was set. So far so good. The set was healltifully constructed to fit the play, and the family even considered its good little \colored people\ as part of the family at one point in the play. But when looked at for the reason the play was chosen. there is nothing here other than racism that says, \o.k. \\e'IJ get a play for l:llacks to be in, but we won't let them out of those roles.\ In other words they fixed it so that we had two roles at the most to fill. and when casting I'm sure they never considered us for ·any other role in the play or that the family could have been all Black playing 1n white face, since they considered doing that to one of our Black roles. Why couldn't a play have been chosen that the parts would have been equal not degrading, ·and would have portrayed Black people as humans and not as servants? My point is that the reasoning that white folks used to do things geared at integration and accepting us Black folk expose more of th•cir racism than being a plain old racist would. One could argue that first of all. not manv Blacks tried out for the play. i'hafs all the more reason that the play's roles should have heen interchangeable in nature. Besides, who the he II \\ants to he ina role like than in YCI IWY'! One could also argue \\hat more we want from white people.\ because thev made the tffort. I hat's a lot or\cowdung. It 1~ not the thought in this case that counts, it is the actual action. '\ow. I'd like to say that this is my opinion and though others agree wth me. It 1s not a comorted (\pinion of the Black ~tudent Alliance. It there is anyone who can clear up this matter in my mind. please contact lllC,. f...id.r,t I'Cl!>llll, llll. J()i\ Hickok.· 2525i Se

