'\l'SE IT OR LOSE IT.\-CHARLES DARWIN ' . . . . . . . Voi.IOJ. No. 17 Up For Grabs Voting fot aU student-held offices, will :take place on Tuesday, M.ay 6 •. from 9 a.m. to. 9 p.m. in the College Center. Run-off elections, if necessary, will be held on Wednesday, May 8, ?t the same time and place, Petitions fot all offices will be available .starting on Friday, April !9; in the Student Activities Ofnce, Old Gym. Hall. Completed petitions are due at l2 noon, Friday, May 3, in the Student Activities Office. All petitions will be checked by the Elections Committee. A brief summary of each office fallows; Board of Trustees Junior Class Representative: This is. a two-year office for a member of the Class of 1976. The winner will attend meetings of the Board of Trustees and convey student opinion. All students are Classics; English, Language, and Philosophy majors, and ail Center I Inter-departmental majors. Division ll i.ncludes: Economics, History, Political Science, and Sociology majors. Division lH includes: Biology, Chemistry,. and Psychology majors. Division .IV includes: Mathematics. Physics, Mechm:Jical, Electrical and Civil Engineering majors, as well as all Interdivi-sional and Inter- departmental majors in Center It Those students not covered by the above explanation should consider themselves voters from the division in which their faculty advisors reside. At-Large Representative: Sits on the All-College Senate. All students are eligible to run and to vote. : For clarification or further information, contact Harry Lessin Thursday, APRIL 18, 1974 • eligible to vote. · at 372-9730. . . Steering Committee President of the Student Body: presides over the steering committee, and sits ex-officio on the AU-College Senate. All students are eligible to run and to vote. School Papers Menaced Vice•President of the Student Body: Vice-President of Steering_ Committee, sits ex-officio .on all student committees. All students are eligible to run and to vote. Secretary of the Student Body: Secretary of Steering Committee. _ All students are eligible to run and to vote. Class of 1977 Representatives: There are two offices open to the Class of 1.977. Voting is limited to that class. Class of 1976 Representatives: There are two offices open to members of the class of 1976. Voting ·is limited to that class. This is a two-year office. All-Colle-ge Senate Dhisional Representatives: There are four divisions,. broken down on the basis of academic major. One representative of each sits on the ACS. In order to run, the candidate must he a major in the division for Which he is running. Voting is also by divisioJ?,. The divisions are as follows: Division I voters include: Art, by BILL TALIS The publication of student newspapers in the State University System of New York ha.s been jeopardized by . legislation prop~sed to control student activity funds in those schools. Senator John Marchi (Rep.-Cons., · Staten Island) pushed the bill through committee; if enacted by the Legislature it would deny the use of student activity money for the purpose of student publications. The b.ill was initiated at a time when most of the State colleges · and t1niversities were on .spring recess. The proposed legis:latiol). resulted from incidents of apparent abuse in editorial policy at the City University of New York and State.n Island Community College. Since no unc,lergradMte neWspaper is self- sufficient in advertising, the bill would terminate the publication of newspapers in the 80 colleges and universities within the state system. Proponents of the bill claim that their intention is to guarantee the civil liberties of students who must contribute to activities in which they do not West College grumblers rejoice! The means of a healt~ful and inexpensive diet are at hand! Come to the Schenectadv Lihrarv on Wednesday, April 24 at 7:30 p.m. and. learn ,,..:•hat this man already knows. Edible plants can change your /;fe! Photo by Vi participate, and do not condone. Opponents of the bi\ll cite encroachment on the freedom of press and an abrogation of the right to seek out activities which may not carry majority consensus. Marchi's legislation stemmed, allegedly, from anti-Catholic sentiments at C.U.N.Y. The Newman Club, a Catholic fellowship, objected to being denied student activity funds while the school's . newspaper, Observation Post utilized such funds for advocating vigorous. anti-Catholic propaganda.. The February 13 issue of Observation Post portrayed Christ on page one with a note to turn to page 12 for more inform(ltion; there the reader found an \Exorcist-type\ cartoon of a nun masturbating with a crucifix. Another incident cited was an unsubstantiated article appearing in Ponto, one of the three student McCloskey. publications of Staten Island Community College. In its most recent issue, Punto carried a story, ''Physician Claims Jews are Schizo Carriers,\ referring to an article in Psychi~;~tric News, a respected academic journal. The article professes that schizoid tendencies are contagious, and that Jews are the disease carriers. Cc:mcordy learned that Ponto's reference was fabricated, but the editor of Punto has not retracted the story. Ray Glass, director of the Student Association of State University (SASU) stated in a telephone interview Wednesday, April 17, \The bill. is a complete overreaction to abuse by the press. If the bill were enacted into law, we believe that it would be unconstitutional under U.S. and New York State Constitutions.\ If the legislation were to pass, editors of student papers across the state fear that Governor Wilson would sign the bill into law. Private school newspapers, such as Concordiensis, would not be directly affected by the by FR~D WEINSTEIN legislation, but Concordy editors 0 h · f A 'I 9 have expressed deep concern for · n te evemng 0 · pn_ ' the ramifications of the bill as, Congressman Paul McCloskey, the only man who opposed \denying the right to free press by Richard Nixon in the 1972 setting a dangerous precedent Republican presidential wher~by govern~ent eco~or~ic primaries, gave an address to a coe:c~~~ could dictate ed1tonal l d · h S · 1 S · pohcv arg~ c~ow m t e . oc1~ c1ence •••• .. ••••••• aud1tonudmb. MhcCipos 1 ~e?'s 1 aFddress,tt On Sunday, April 21. the t sponsore y t e o 1t1ca · orum, U . (' 11 d w 11 1 f 'd d · · h · h · dt mon o ege an e es ev prov1 e ms1g ts mto t e myna · . . · t of actions that have been t C'olle,l!e Glee C'l u bs Will t categorized as Watergate. t pres~nt a concert. of choral t He saw the actions of President+ mus1c at Memonal Chapel. t Nixon and his cohorts as a reflec-t The program will begin at 4 t tion of events that occurred t p.m. and will be under the t ~s far back as Worl~, War II,. fort direction of visiting director t 1t was then · that the Um!ed t Peter Flanders. t States government began usmg t The program will include • i~tell.igen~e-gathe~in~, activities in t Bach's \Cantata #131\ (A us t f1ghtmg Its enemies. McCloskey t d T\ f ) M t' v t · d\ t- d th t th A · er 1e e . o7ar s esperae m 1ca e a e mencan t , : public then. accepted, and still Solennes d~ :onfessor:. , and does, the belief that the President, t M onteverdt s Be~tus V1~. as Commander in Chief, may + Featured solmsts wtll be t e_rnploy an~ means necessary tot Ruth .. Lakewav. soprano: t ftght enemies. The danger of the t Pati'Icta Deckert. meno t public~s acceptance of such power +soprano: Steven Cole. a •• is t~at the . Presid.ent may t former Union student, Keith s~~et1mes perce1~e Umted States • Kibler. bass. A · professional t Citizens as enemies. IV!cCioskey t orchestra. including Benjamin t ~ommented, that, . m s~ch t Van Wve. organist. will t . mstances, a conflict anses · . . t between the functions of the t acc~mpany t_he vOJces.. 1 t President; since a second basic t Tickets will be availah e at t function of the President is to t the. door, free of charge to ~he t \uphold the Constitution\ and i Umon College C'ommumty, • there is \a thin line between . and two dollars for others. t (\ontinued on Page 4 ............ . .. 35 cents The College Senate defeated the 12 point and 8 point proposed grading systems' votes of 10-10 and 17-3 respectivezv. Thus the present 5 point grading system will remain. For .information concerning the calendar issue see editorial. page two. photo by Cliff Langweiler Watt Program by JOHN FOSTER Energy: it touches every aspect of <lUr lives. Isaac Asimov said that, \All that men do requires energy ... Every aspect of earth's economy now depends on a copious stupply of cheap energy transported in the convenient form of electricity.\ Unfortunately, this energy no longer seems to exist in the limitless quantities we once took for granted, as we have learned so painfully this past year. Union engineering faculty and students have been involved in this area since the days of Dr. Charles Steinmetz, but the times seem to require more. In response to the growing awareness of the need for energy planning, Union now offers a specialization in Energy Systems. To qualify for this specialization, a student must satisfy the requirements for a B.S. degree in Civil, Electrical, or Mechanical Engineering, with six. of the courses chosen from two groups: four from a group of ME and EE courses covering areas such as energy conversion, transportation, and nuclear engineering; two from a group of Comp. Ed. courses dealing with the effects of energy on the environment and on society. The Energy Systems Program is under the direction of Prof. J. Richard Shanebrook. Working with him are Profs. William C. Aubrey, lngvar V. Ingvarsson, Ram Mittal; and Mr. R. Paul Mason. Prof. Shanebrook believes this program will meet th~. needs of both students and society as a whole. ••The energy problem will be with us until around the year 2000. How we live, what luxuries we enjoy, and even the level of the economy will be determined by the ease with which we produce and transmit energy,\ said Shanebrook. Furthermore, there should , be some concrete advantages for the student as well. Undergraduates can make Continued on page S • •

' I 'if, ll 1 I .\,. I ' '• I '. ' [ ~~~ 'I ( '· ' ;. \:!' ·~ i I '. ! ••rSE IT~ OR LOSE IT.\-CHARLES DARWIN Vol. 11)3, No. 17 Up For Grabs Voting for all student-held 0ffices wiU take place on Tuesday, May 6, from 9 a.m. to 9 p.m. in the CoHege Center. Run-off elections, if necessary, will be held on Wednesday, May 8, at the same time and place. Petitions for aU offices wi'll be available starting on Friday, April 19, in the Student Activities Office. Old Gym Hall. Completed petiHons are due at 12 noon, Friday, May 3, in the Student .\ctivities Office. All petitions wiH be checked by the Elections Committee. A brief summary of each office follows: Board of Trustees Junior Class Representative: rhis is a two-year office for a member of the Class of 1976. The winner will attend meetings of the Board of Trustees and convey student opinion. All students are eligible to vote. Classics, English, Language, and Philosophy majors, and ali Center I lnter-de~artmental majors. Division II includes: Economics, History, Po·litical Science, and Sociology majors. Division IJI includes: Biology, Chemistry, and Psychology majors. Division IV includes: Mathematics. Physics, Mechanical. Electrical and Civil Engineering majors, as well as all Interdivisional and Inter- departmental majors in Center II. Those students not covered by the above explanation should consider themselves voters from the division in which their faculty advisors reside. At-Large Representative: Sits on the All-College Senate. All students are eligible to run and to vote. For clarification or further information, contact Harry Lessin at 372-9730. Thursday, APRIL 18, 1974 - '..<, .. FEBRUARY \-····~-~--~~ m1\IJAY Steering Committee President of the Student Body: pres ides over the steering committee, and sits ex-officio on the All-College Senate. All students are eligible to run and to vote. School Papers Menaced Vice-President of the Student Rody: Vice-President of Steering_ Committee, sits ex-officio .on all student committees. All students are eligible to run and to vote. Secretary of the Student Body: Secretary of Steering Committee. All students are eligible to run and to vote. Class of 1977 Representatives: There are two offices open to the Class of 1977. Voting is limited to that class. Class of 1976 Representatives: There are two offices open to members of the class of 1976. Voting is limited to that class. This is a two-year office. AJI-College Senate Divisional Representatives: There are four divisions, broken down on the basis of academic major. One representative of each sits on the ACS. In order to run, the candidate must be a major in the division for which he is running. Voting is also by division. The divisions are as follows: Division I voters include: Art, by BILL TALIS The publication of student newspapers in the State University System of New York has been jeopardized by legislation proposed to control student activity funds in those schools. Senator John Marchi (Rep.-Cons., Staten Island) pushed the bill through committee; if enacted by the Legislature it would deny the use of student activity money for the purpose of student publications. The bill was initiated at a time when most of the State colleges and universities were on spring recess. The proposed legislation resulted from incidents of apparent abuse in editorial policy at the City University of New York and Staten Island Community College. Since no undergraduate newspaper is self- sufficient in advertising, the bill would terminate the publication of newspapers in the 80 colleges and universities within the state system. Proponents of the bill claim that their intention is to guarantee the civil liberties of students who must contribute to activities in which they do not West ColleKe Krumhlers rejoice.' The means of a healthful and inexpensive diet are at hand.' Come to the S~henectadr Uhrarv on Wednesdar. April 24 at 7:30 p.m. ani learn u·hat this man alreadr knoH's. Edihle plants can change rour life.' Photo by Vi participate, and do not condone. Opponents of the bill cite encroachment on the freedom of press and an abrogation of the right to seek out activities which may not carry majority consensus. Marchi's legislation stemmed, allegedly, from anti-Catholic sentiments at C.U.N.Y. The Newman Club, a Catholic fellowship, objected to being denied student activity funds while the school's newspaper, Observation Post utilized such funds for advocating vigorous anti-Catholic propaganda.. The February 13 issue of Observation Post portrayed Christ on page one with a note to turn to page 12 for more information; there the reader found an \Exorcist-type\ cartoon of a nun masturbating with a crucifix. Another incident cited was an unsubstantiated article appearing in Punto, one of the three student McCloskey publications of Staten Island Community College. In its most recent issue, Punto carried a story, \Physician Claims Jews are Schizo Carriers,\ referring to an article in Psychiatric News, a respected academic journal. The article professes that schizoid tendencies are contagious, and that Jews are the disease carriers. Concordy learned that Ponto's reference was fabricated, but the editor of Punto has not retracted the story. Ray Glass, director of the Student Association of State University (SASU) stated in a telephone interview Wednesday, April 17, \The bill is a complete overreaction to abuse by the press. If the bill were enacted into law, we believe that it would be unconstitutional under U.S. and New York State Constitutions.\ If the legislation were to pass, editors of student papers across the state fear that Governor Wilson would sign the bill into law. Private school newspapers. such as Concordiensis, would not be directly affected by the by FRED WEINSTEIN legislation. but Concordy editors On the evening of April 9, have expressed deep concern for Congressman Paul McCloskey, the ramifications of the bill as, the only man who opposed \denying the right to free press by Richard Nixon m the 1972 setting a dangerous precedent Republican presidential wher~by governn:ent econon:ic primaries, gave an address to a coc:c1~~ could d 1ctate ed1tonal I d . h S . 1 S . pohcv arg~ cr.ow m t e , oc1~ . c1ence •••• .. ••••••• aud1tonum. McCloskey s address, t 0 s d· . April ., 1 the * d b h p I' . 1 F + n . un d\. ~ . spon~dorde . ~the . o ltlcha or~md .• l'nion College and Welleslev t prov1 e ms1g ts mto t e myna . 11 of actions that have been+ College Glee C'luhs WI + categori7ed as Watergate. + rre,~nt a concert. nf chor:1l t He saw the actions of President t mu-.Ic at Mem?nal ~hapel. t :'-i ixon and his cohorts as a reflec- + The prof!ram wlll hegm at 4 t tion of events that occurred+ p.m. and will he under the t ~s far back as World\ War II, _fort direction of \isitin_g director t '! was then · that the Um~ed t Peter Flanders. t ~tate~ governme~t bega.n .. us1~g + The program will include t '?tell.•gen~e-gathe~mg. actiVIties m t Bach's \Cantata 1:1131\ (Aus • ~~g~tmg Its enem1es.' McCio~key t dcr Tiefe). Momrt's Vesperae f md1cated that the Amencan t , public then accepted, and still . Solennes d.~ ~ onfessor~ ... and • does, the belief that the President, t Mo.nteverdl s Re~tus Vi~. t as Commander in Chief, may + featured solm~ts will he • employ any means necessary to +Ruth I.akew:n·. soprano: • fight enemies. The danger of the +Patricia Deckert. me77o • public's acceptance of. such power • soprano: , ~te,en Cole. . a •• '.s t~at the . Prcs1d_ent may • former l mon s~udent, ~e1th s?':Ilet1mes perce1~e Umted States t Kibler. hass. A professwnal + Citizens as enem1es. ~cCioskey +orchestra. including Aeniamin t commented, that, . 10 s~ch t Van Wve. organist. will + instances. a conflict anses · . + b t th f t . f th t accompanv the vmces. : e ween e unc 1ons o e . · . h. . 1 hi t President; since a second basic t Tickets Will c aval a e a function of the President is to t the. door. free of charge to ~he + \uphold the Constitution\ and t limon Collel!e Commumtv. t there is \a thin line between t and two dollars for others. t Continued on Page 4 ............. . 35 cents Tile Colle~w Senate de-feated the 12 paint and 8 point proposed Jrradin~ srsums' \'Otes of 10-!0 ana 17-3 respecrive!r. Thus the present 5 point Rradinr; srstem ll'ill remain. For in(ormation concerninr the calendar i.uue see editorial. page two. photo by Cliff I.an,JZweiler Watt Program by JOHN FOSTER Energy: it touches every aspect of our lives. Isaac Asimov said that, \All that men do requires .energy ... Every aspect of earth's economy now depends on a copious stupply of cheap energy transported in the convenient form of electricity.\ Unfortunately, this energy no longer seems to eJCist in the limitless quantities we once took for granted, as we have learned so painfully this past year. Union engineering faculty and students have been involved in this area since the days of Dr. Charles Steinmetz, but the times seem to require more. In response to the growing a 'Ware ness of the need for energy planning. Union now offers a specialization in EnerlSY Systems. To qualify for this specialization, a student must satisfy the requirements for a B.S. degree in Civil. Electrical, c>r Mechanical Engineering, with six of the c<Jurses chosen from two groups: four from a group of ME and EE courses covering are as such as energy conversion. transportation. and nuclear engineering: two from a group of Comp. Ed. courses dealing with the effects of energy on the cmironrnent and on society. The Energy Systems Program is under the direction of Prof. J. Richard Shanebrook. Working with him are Profs. William C. Aubrey, Ingvar V. Ingvarsson, Ram Mittal. and Mr. R. Paul Mason. Prof. S hanebrook believes this progrmn will meet the needs of both students and s<Jciety as a whole. \The energy problem will be with us until around the year 2000. How we live, what luxuries we enjoy, and even the level of the economy will be determined by the ease with which we produce and transmit energy. said Shanebrook. Furthermore, there should be some concrete advantages for the student as well. Undergraduates can make Continued on page 5

Page2 -:: COJVCOR!J!ENS!S, Thursday, April/8, 1974 Editors-in-chief. ..................... Judy Dein. Bill Talis News Editor ....................................... Geoff Taylor Culture Editor ...................................... Pete Sobol Sports Editor ...................................... Bart Mercer Photo EditQrs .............................. Leslie Steineker, Cliff Langwerter Copy Editor ....................................... Phil Alcabes Foreipn Corespondent.. .............. Roh Mondschein Blithering Editor ........................... Chris O'Connor Business Editor ................................. Alan Gnessin National Advertising .......................... Steve Kelley Subscriptions Editor .............................. Lisa Tietz I.ayout ............................................ Linda Mackey Concordiensis is ruhlished every Thursday by the student body of Union C'ollef!e. Old Gym Ha,JL Schenectady, N.Y ... Publications Office. l:he Jewish World Publications. 771 State St.. Schenectady. N.Y. 12~07 n41i-2J56). Entered in the Schenectady Post Office as Second C'lass Matter. Subscription Rate 35 cents per copv, $8.00 a vear delivered anywhere in the United States. Deadline f~r copy is Tuesdav 5:00P.M. Survey Due The Concordiensis Survev of ~tudent life at ·Union is now e~~f;ntiaHy completed. We. have received 435 of the 497 que~tionnaires distrihuted last term. an overall .response rate of 87.5%. Anv questionnaires ·that were not collected last term can still oe returned too the Concordiensis mailbox in the Stud·ent Activities Office or the Concordy office in Carnegie (third floor). A detai'led comparison of the sample and the actual survey responses with the entire student population of winter term will be puhlished next week alonl! ~·ith the first results of the survey. Raisin' D·a tes We were under the impression that the Calendar issue was dead. What led us to this conclusion was the lack of support the Steering Committee received when they went to the dormitories on campus. The President of the Steering Committee was of the impression that students were against the Split Second Term Plan. The traditional plan. the dates for vacations etc., can be found in the Union College Catalogue 1973-74. The other two plans are as follows: Long FALL Split Second Term Winter Break Classes hegin Sept. 9 Sept. 9 Classesend Nov.l5 Nov.l5 Exams end Nov. 22 Nov. 22 WINTER Classes hegin XMAS break he_gins Classes resume Classes end Exams end SPRING Classes Begin Classes end Exams end A poll was taken three proposals. Dec. 2 Dec. 21 Jan.6 Feb. 21 Feb. 28 Mar. 10 May 16 Mav 23 last ·winter by the Jan. 6 Mar. 14 Mar. 21 Mar. 31 June 6 June 13 College S~nate on The results showed 44.5% of the students polled to be in favor of the Traditional Plan. 7.2% for the Long Winter Break Plan, 43.\5% in favor of the Split Second Term Plan, and 4.R% who didn•t care. Based on this poll, we see no reason for even keeping the Long Winter Break plan in consideration. The resulting proposals to he seriously contemplated are the Traditional Plan and the Split ::-..econd Term Plan. Walls Get Plastered, Too! by CINDY SHEPPARD The red brick Humanities and Social Sciences Buildings are expected to be coated with cementicious paint, to conform with the gray surface and white trim of the rest of the buildings on the central campus. The Board of trustees meets Friday, April 19, when it is expected to allocate approximately $10,000 - $15,000 for the procedure. Moral Committment Harold Usher, Director of Business and Facilities Operation explained that t:here was a '\moral · commitment that this Would be done, which stems back to when these buildings were built.\ He said that there was originally a provision in the contract that t'he exterior of the buildings be coated with the gray finish. However, because of the type of brick used, the school was advised to wait one year before applying the finish. SihlihK Structure to Soda! Science; Suspected site of Super-Stucco Surface. Job Postponed When campus authorities planned the library extension, it was decided to postpone fhe <;eating of the two builclings until the whole job could be done at once. Usher anticipates that it w,iU be undertaken in the late spring and summer. First Planned Campus in U.S. Usher continued that this step is part of the central campus plan, designed by Joseph Jacques Ramee in 1813. Union College, the first planned campus irt the U.S., employs Ramee's design which consists of one closed end of the quad, facing the open west end looking off into the distance. Usher described it as a vision of the future, at that time, in consideration of the national trend toward the West. North and South Colleges, completed in 1814, were the first materializations of the plans. The Humanities, Social Sciences, and Schaffer Library buildings . .:,··· .. :;. .. , ... photo by Leslie Steineker completed the modern version of the original plans for a uniform campus. Tbe final step in this respect will be coating of the bu·ildings. The commitment to coat the buildings has been made, and Usher commented, \The Board (of Trustees) has not seen fit to rescind the commitment.\ However, he adds, there are no such coating plans for Fox and Davidson Houses, which are a1so red brick. He said that stuccoing was never intended when those dormitories were planned. Stucco! Yuccol The Trustees will meet Friday, April I 9 to determine whether $1 0,000-$1 5,000 will be allocated to redo the exterior of the Social Sciences and Human.itie.s Building. When money is scarce, and the needs aTe great, it is absurd to spend funds on an unessential project, simply because of a \moral\ ·commitment. \The deadest place· fever saw was the Sar~asso Sea, but at least the fish came to the surface at niKht.\ photo by Leslie Steineker Steer-il.ity It .is a common complaint of many on campus that there is no focal point that could help create the sense of community so lacking at Union. Little forethought and funds were expended on the Student Center. Great plans for a central mailroom, an eating area, and small stores have been shelved due to lack of funds. If the Board feels it has the money to play with, we feel that it could be put to better use than refinishing already completed huildings. Last weekend was a disaster as far as Union College social activities were concerned. Except for a student-faculty (mostlv faculty) square dance and the films, llo activity was offered on campus. Students wondered where the Social Committee was, but unfortunatelv. the answer poes a lot deeper than the Social Committee. Appointing a Chairman One of the functions of the Steerin_g Committee is to appoint committee rhemhers and their chairmen. Last term a crisis arose when a replacement had to be found for the graduating chairman of the Social Committee, Peggy Miller. The Steering Committee turned down Miller's recommendation for her replacement. after much ENGLISH COMPETITION The issue, as we see it. rests upon one key question: Are students willing to pay the price for the split term? Students are misinformed if they believe there will be no school \':ork for them over the two-week vacation in winter. Students. would in fact be hurting themselves if they did not keep up with their studies. Dean Lichterman assures us that assignments will not he due upon immediate return, but is there a provision that prevents a long paper due by the end of the fourth week? Alsp, students can count on the possibility of tests being given at the end of the third week. before \vacation.\ If students want to get out at the end of Mav. thev must be willing to work over vacation. Concordiensis, speakinfl for a large part of the student body, believes that Union students enjoy their vacations for other reasons. If there ever was a good time to express your optmon on this issue to your College ., Senate Representatives. the time is now The College Senate meets next Thursday. April 25 to vote on this issue. procrastination. Finally. Chris Fink, former president of WR UC stepped forward to volunteer. The Steering Committee waited for over a week and finally appointed 11 Chris. The delav resulted in an empty social program for the opening weeks of Spring term. Prof. Alan Nelson of the Department of En1!1ish announces the writin!! competition contests offered by his department. The deadline for submission of entries is M nnday. May 6. The contests include the Allen Essay Prize, three prizes for non-fiction essays which is open to all seniors: the Van Orden Prize, for a freshman excelling in EnJ!lish composition: the Yudis Prize, for the student who has produced the oest piece of prose fi.ction: and the American Academy of Poets Prize. for the hest poem .fw an undergraduate. Putney Swope This week. the Union C'o1leJ!e Film Committee wi11 present Putney Sw()pe at 7. 9 arid II on Saturday and Sundav nights in SSOI o. This mind-blowing racial satire of exuberant originalitv deals with a mild-mannered \token hlack\ in an advertising firm. who is transformed into the Chairman of the Board of Truth and Soul. Inc. Admi~sion is $.50. Attendance will he limited to mem hers of the Union community and their guests. Time Constraints Chris Fink had only three weeks to plan for an entire term's activities. It seems that he has done a top notch job of it. for everv weekend following Parents' Weekend is filled. The Social Committee is verv aware of the fact that there io; littlr to do on campus this weekend. They tried to arrange a party for this weekend but were too unorganized to do so. It is unfortunate that the Social Committee should suffer (rom the Steering Committee's fat lure to take prompt action. We hope that the Steering Committee will not be caught up in its own red tape and personality conflicts in the future. and will make decisions for the benefit of the entire student bodv. In t}1e interest of fairness. each pri7e entry should he laheled with a pseudonvm on hoth the paper and an attached sealed envelope: inside the envelope should he the student's real name and address. All of this should be placed in a larJle manila envelope marked with the name of the pri7e for which it is being suhmitted. l.eJ fee: pul pri· fin~ ' inc cor M<~ stu spt the COl ~O' lV ne\ opJ vo' isr ' ne\ Wt. hu1 ide Edit It rece goir (4/~ issu '74-' seve the sch< whe wm takt cale rest afte Tht cxp to coli will cha cal~ mel abo in WOI terr Ch1 cou cal( cla! I of sta1 26) ridi (i.e Jar cir( are Ap Ap M~ Bo Ad Pa1 Th· Edi1 lr tim( wen Pau Re non Ric! low wit carr CnC< vari Wa Vie pub sevt stu< acre ~on put we a·pJ:

CONCORD!ENSlS 1 Thursday. April 18, 1974 Page3 Nelf.is No More? State Senator John Marchi has introduced a bill to the· l.egislature callinp: for a han on the use of student activities fees for the operation of underp;raduate newspapers at state public colleges and universities. Since Union College is a private institution. this hill does not affect us: however we find fhis act deplorable. Student activity fees provide for a wide range of events incltlding sports and school clubs. Very rarely. if ever is a consensus CYf students required for each activity. Thus. Marchi's argument. that the bill is designed to safeguard students from suhsidizin,IZ causes with which they differ. is spurious. If enough stttdents ob_iected to an activity which thev wen~ supporting through their student activity fees. they could distnemher that organization through student f!overnment. college. If the present trend continues. these lectures will be poorly attended. Every student could at least ·attend a few of these talks. SS 016 is not so big that there should be empty seats for lectures given by Rep~;esentatives, Senators, and other important speakers. If you have had the patience to ·- read this letter, thanks. But if you still say \Who cares?\ and continue to ignore the existence of a:n education outside. the library and classroom, then admit !'hat you are a machine rather than a student. Jim Trump Matt Brief David Eilbott Howie Lax Student Aid CRISIS OF STUDENT AID The New York State Assembly and Senate have initiated separate legislation to improve the state's program ·of aid to college students. The bills are now coming up for consideration by the full legislature. The Assembly recently approved a proposal by Peter Costigan (R-Setauket) calling for a maximum grant ·of almost $2,000 to next year's freshmen at private colleges. The program would give increased aid to subsequent freshmen classes, and would be fully operational within four years. · Senators Warren Anderson (R- Binghamton) and Ronald Staffor ( R·-Peru) successfully introduced to the State Senate a bill increasing the maximum Scholar Incentive Award from $600 to $1,000 for 1974-75, with increased benefits for all undergraduate classes. The Scholar Incentive Program would be replaced in 1975-76 by a new agency administering all state-supported student aid and I.oan programs. Wilson Silent · Marchi's hill completely loses sight of the role of a student newspaper. A .student newspaper is a sounding hoard of opinion: if the staff is found to he incorrigible. they are voted out of office. The elimination of that sounding board is no solution. Without financial support of the student activity fund. newspapers in eil!ht puhlic colleges and universities will fold. Wed o not see such a move as protecting individuals' rights. hut rather as a step towards obliterating hasic American ldeals: freedom of speech and freedom of the press ... Chairman Gado In the face of rising costs to colleges and the accompanying costs to students, Governor Wilson has not publicly supported any of the proposals. The State University of New York will charge close to $3;000 in 1974-75 fm tuition, room, board, and general fees to the undergradua~e; the total bill for private co:leges such as Union approaches $5,000. You .Said It! Calendar people showed up for Congressman McCloskey and only fifty for Senator Clark. Editors, Concordiensis: Many of those attending were It was brought to my attention faculty and administration. recently that the College Senate is Even though some lectures last going to vote next Thursday term (notably. those of John (4/25/ 74) on a very important Simon and Robert Saltzman) issue: our school calendar for the were packed, it is disgraceful that '74-'75 academic year. There are ,....in a ·supposedly \intellectual several proposed calendars, but concerned\ institution such as the basic issue lies in when the school year should start and whether we should have a split winter term. Concordiensis has taken a poll on the issue of calendar changes. However, results will not be known until after the senate vote, next Thursday. Since this vote is expected to be close, I would like to bring to the attention of the college commun'iiy that a petition will be circulating supporting a change from the traditional calenda,r. This change would mean school would start earlier; about September 4. Encompassed in the whole calendar change would probably be a split winter term, 3 weeks, a break for Christmas and 7 weeks more. Of course one of the benefits of the calendar cha.nge would be ending - classes in May instead of J_une. It should be noted that several of the proposed calendars that start at the trad-itional time (Sept. 26) have a split winter term or ridiculously long winter vacations (i.e. Thanksgiving until late January). Petitions will be circulating in West College dining · area this Thursday and Friday, April 18-19, and next Monday, April 22. Mark Massey Bob Morrison Adele Reichlinger Paul Magaril Thomas Hood Class of '77 True Apathy Editors; Concordiensis: · In the past two weeks, two timely and informative lectures were delivered by Representative Paul McCloskey, aspirant for the Republic'an presidential nomination in 1972. and Senator Richard Clark, Democrat of Iowa. These two lectures dealt with political dissent and campaign finance reform, while encompassing an additional wide variety of topics ranging from Watergate to the present crisis in Viet Na m. These lectures were publicized in Union's Week, and severa I posters notifying the students of them were hung across the campus. Even though ~orne might call this poor publicity. which undoubtedly it is, w e · w ere a p p a II e d t h a t a·ppl'oximately one hundred · Rep. McCloskey drew large crowds - unusual for Union ColleKe. photo by Bill Erichson Union less than five per cent of the student body turned out to see two distinguished national Congressmen. Undoubtedly, this is embarrasing to the speakers, hut more importantly it is embarrassing for both the college and its students. Does the word education mean that one must stay in his room studying to get a 4.0, or does it imply that people should expose themselves to every possible source of education that the school provides. Since this is the early part of the term, the time involved for these lectures was minimal when you consider the import of the topics discussed. You do not have to be a political activist to be politically informed. Since we, the students, will ultimately inherit the leadership of this nation, it is imperative that we should at least try to be as aware of the world around us as possible. The world is not limited to Organic Chemistry, Political Science, and graduate school admission. True these things are important, however, they should not govern one's life. We have a responsibility to the world and ourselves. Student awareness did not die with American extrication from Viet Nam, There are still important issues for students to learn about and discuss. Before the en& of this school year and in the coming years many lecturers v. ill speak here on a wide variety of .topics. many of which will have great relevance and meaning for nearly every studen·t in the by ELAINE DlMPELFELD The new chairman of Union College's Department of English is Professor Frank Gado. He is replacing ·the late Professor Kilburn. As head of the department, Gado is now responsible for work besides his teaching and his own private pursuits. At the moment, the department is searching for two new professors, a difficult task since it is so late in the academic year. Students are welcome to attend future interviewing sessions. Gado. hopes to encourage members of the department's faculty to switch courses perhaps every five years. Instead, then, of having their own pet courses, they would broaden their own understanding and revitalize courses with new approaches. He has also been in favor of changing -the Department of English to a Department of Literature. Then studies would include foreign works which are now not included and which nonetheless have provided the background for many English writers. Professor Gado is concerned with the trends he senses in the Union College community and in academic circles nationally. He believes 'that \the purpose of a college education is to expose students to a number of different ways of seeing the world.\ He fear& seeing students \stuck into only one department.\ Therefore- he wants his department to offer good courses that anyone in the College can take. He sees the Comprehensive Education program as ineffectual in giving a broad education. The school tells the students, he says, \Here is a core you must take,' but no thought is given to its relation with the rest of the students' curriculum program.\ Union College is also subject to a grade inflation (the total cume being around 2.9: 65% of last terms grades were A's or B's). This trend is occurring nationally and is dangerous because graduate schools no longer pay much attention to applicants' grades; Senate Candidate Ramsey Clark. a candidate for the U.S. Senate from New York State will speak in Memorial Chapel on April 25 at 8:00 p.m. Clark ·served as Assistant Attorney General of the U.S. under President Kennedy from 1961-65 and held the same position under President Johnson from 1965-67. before taking on the post of Attorney General which he held until 1969. Since 1969 he has heen outspoken ·in his opposition to the war · in Inc!ochina. has given ~Uppor! -,()r the civil rights of criminals and minorities, and has distinguished himself as a lawyer representing Frank Serpico before the Knapp Commission. Clark has authored two books: Crime in America and The Role of the Supreme Court, with Sam Ervin. His talk is sponsored by the Political Forum. \ ··~ Frank Gado - new chairman C?fthe EnKlish Department. · photo hy Mocko Hirano rather, they base their admissions decisions on G RE's. Professor Gado sees many of these difficulties as arising from a national tendency toward democratization of colleges, to put all high school students through college. He is worried about Union's survival and does not believe it should try to compete with the type of education that state schools offer. Instead, he hopes that Union \will maintain its own special quality,\ that it will offer a personalized, road, serious academic pursuit. Presently, Gado is working on completing a book on the films of lngmar Bergmann, with which he has been concerned for the past five or six years. The book deals with \exploring the films in terms of the psychology of the artist.\ He is not \concerned with the medium, but with the artist in relation to what he's producing, with the underlying pattern between all the films.\ Professor Gado has been to Sweden several times to get information and clues to understanding Bergmann's life and work. , After his book is finished (the contract ends June I), he intends to do research on the origins of American short fiction. For families earning between $8,000 and $20,000, private higher education is becoming impracticaL The result is that New York's system of higher education may be stratified ·according to ecDnomic determinants. Insufficient Funds A study headed by the New York State Department of Education found the present system of grants to be insufficient, especially for students attending high-priced private institutions. (Union's tuition alone is about $1,500 more per year than that of the state's public colleges). Families of students receiving Scholar Incentive Awards and who attend private colleges now receive the same aid as those families whose children attend public colleges. Thus, these families are responsible for a greater share of college expenses. Private Schools Falter The ramifications of present policy suggest a trend of financial instability among private institutions, and a denial of opportunity for private education among a large part of the population. Despite an increased statewide student population, twenty-three private colleges in New York have closed since 1965. The Costigan bill increases the Scholar Incentive Awards greatly under the newly named Tuition Assistance Program. Families with a net taxable income of $10,000 would be eligible for a grant of $1, 150, in addition to the $250 Regents Scholarship a student may receive upon successf1,1l completion of the statewide exam. Presently, such a family may only receive a $100 Scholar Incentive Award in addition to the Regents Scholarship. ........ ~ Union College President Eliphalet Nott has denied the rumor t-hat the Nott Memorial Theatre has been renamed the Theodore Roosevelt Memorial Theatre. President Roosevelt was unavailable for comment. UCo/1 heautf{ication prof(ram alsn designed to discouraf(e dogs nn campus. '

Page4 CONCORDIENSfS, Thursday, Apri/18, 1974 . 'Butterfly' Performed Alternate Career Fields by LAUREN GORDON History has a way of repeating itself, possibly because man chooses not to learn from past mistakes, but rather insists on making them himself time after time after time. One .o'f the most .popular historic themes is death of the innocent in the name of war. Death after all, claims everyone You .find it everywhere. It catches lAp with even those Who wear their noses in 'the air With a certain justice, so That helps perhaps to sweeten The poor man's pain and woe The Columbus Boychoir of Princeton (Donald Hanson, Director), in a scholarship concert for the Temple Community SeiVice Corps, sponsored by Temple Gates of Heaven. Union College, and Union College Hillel, presented I Never Saw Another Butterfly. This is a choral work based upon poetry by children of the Terezin concentration camp. Terezin was a way station to Auschwitz and other death camps run by the Nazis in WW II. At the beginning of the concert, the audience was asked to observe a moment of silent prayer for the eighteen Israeli villagers from the border town of Kiryat Shemonah which was attacked by terrorists from Lebanon, April II. History repeats itself. The program consisted of A .Singing of Angels, a song by the Boychoir with narration by Nicki Weiss and Lotte Swartz, followed by presentations by Union Professors Hans Freund and Stephen Berk. Prof. Freund's reading of the 137th Psalm once again linked two unseemingiy related events, one in an Israeli village in 1974 and the other in a German concentration <;:amp (Revenge Upon lsraeJ•s Foes) is .. an eye for an eye and a tooth for a tooth,\ the solution? After Professor Berk's reading there was a slide ·presentation of the Art of Terezin, during which minds were allowed to drift and discover what emotions and ideas lay within. The feature of the evening was the Columbus Boychoir's performance of I Never Saw Another Butterfly, set tom usic by Charles Davidson. The staging, done by Denis Rosa, was well executed by Boychoir members, who average about ten years of age. Their performance of the poetry collection elicited both universal and personal responses from the Memorial Chapel audience, which made it all very worthwhile. One cannot describe· to another the overall effect of these words, movements, music. It was an attempt to let us see a glimpse of Terezin, but we can ·never know. The world's abloom and seems to smile I want to fly hut H!here, how hi!{h? ff in barbed wire, thinKS can · bloom Wh.v couldn't I? f will not die! r d like to 1(0 away alone Where there are other nicer people Somewhere into the far unknown There - where no one kills another. by PHYLLIS EDELMAN The average Union student may not believe it, but the scope of career and graduate opportunities does extend beyond the limits of law and medicine. Among the several alternatives are public ~dministration and international affciirs, health planning and administration, business administration, labor relations, library science, and criminal justice. Prof. James UnderWood, Acting Chairman of the Department of Political Science, claims there are at least sixty schools which offer a Master's degree in Public Administration. These programs often corH;eritrate on urban or international public affairs. Sometimes, enrollment in a public administration program includes taking courses at a law school. This could be a .stepping stone to admission into that law school. ' Most Master's degree programs in public administration are only a year long. Admissio:n requirements are relatively liberal. Northwestern University requires no prior study in either business or man~gement for admission into their Graduate School of Management. Neither does Carnegie-Mellon University's School of Urban and Public Affairs have rigid requirements. Some programs, like Princeton University's Woodrow Wilson School of PubHc and International -Affairs, require good academic performance, a background in the social sciences and a commitment to a career in public affairs. ·Of those who graduate with M.P.A.'s about 50% go en to work for the federal government. The remainder work for the state and local government, except for the few who work ·for consulting firms and public interest .groups. Those who .pursue a career in international public affairs work on a world-wide basis. Careers in Health Health planning and health or hospital administration programs . may be of interest to students whose undergraduate backgrounds have been in either biology or political science. These careers may be of particular iflterest to those who want to he in a hospital setting but either cannot or do not want to become a doctor. The business side of a hospital, including budget, staffing and management are the _ concern of hospital administrators. These jobs are relatively well-paying. Graduate School programs iq hospital and health services administration lead to the M.S. degree. Often they have no specific . re.q uirement for undergrads, as with Ohio State University's program and Washington University (St. Louis), Graduate Program in Me Closkey Marches On Continued from Page I fighting enemies a'nd upholding the Constitution.\ Tll.is line was crossed by President Nixon, and according to McChskey, \this essentially is the story of Watergate.\ M cCioskey elaborated on this premise by exam. mmg the President's policy in regard to the Vietnam war. In 196&~ during his .presidential campaign, Nixon asserted he had \a secret plan to end the war.\ Nixo11 rested the success of his plan on its secrecy. Thus, those that interferred in any way with the President's plan were considered enemies. In the spring of 1970, at th.e height of the protest over our ·invasion of Cambodia, H. R. Haldeman had stated publicly that those who spoke against the wa.r were our worst enemies and des.troyed \our ability to conduct the war.\ McCloskey related that in July, 1970, an ad-hoc intelligence Now you can protect yourself against muggers, rapists and worse wi1:h this amazing new whistle. Wear it agency was created by the administration to fight the anti- war movement. This agency violated the rights of individuals by employing the weapon of surreptitious entry. In June, 1971, with the release of the Pentagon Papers, a special 'plumbers' unit was created under the auspices of Charles Colson with its objective, as Colson put it, \to neutralize Daniel Ellsberg.\ The burglarizing of Ellsberg's psychiatric file was directed towards this goal. Among those directly involved in the planning of this burglary were John Ehrlichman and Egil Krough, both close advisers to the President. We now know that the plumbers engaged in a significant number of other activities (political 'tricks,' the Watergate break-in, the 'screwing' of people on the White House enemies list, etc.) which violated individuals' bow 1 e WUISIIH on ... , .... '\ .. ....._ ... raoe as a necklace or carry it as a key chain. Its long-range p~netrating shrill brings help in a hurry. The next dark n1ght (that's -tonight!) you'll feel a lot safer just knowing you have tlie- greatest protection in the world. Gives obscene pho11e callers a shrilling earful. too. GET IT BEFORE Y{)U HAD IT! C<JME IN OR MAll HANDY COUPON Yes! I want to be;, saved! Send me _,London-Like Whistles _ Key Chai~ _Necklace (Number)_ Chrome __ I enclose $3.00 for eacll London· Like Whistle. 1 unders;:tand th8't If 1 am not Family. Jewels Ltd. totally satisfied, I' Will receive a complete 3431 West Villatd Avenue refund If returned in 10 day.s. Milwaukee, Wisconsin 53209 NAME--------~--------------~--------- STAEETNUMBER--------~--------~--------- CITY STATE ZIP rights. McCloskey asserted that Nixon himself was ''guilty of a felony\ - obstruction of justice. The Cpngressman rested his assertion on the conflict between Nixon's statement in August 1972 that \a full effort\ was being made by the FBI and CIA to uncover ·any evidence of wrongdoing in Watergate, and-Nixon's revelation in May, 1973 that he had instructed Haldeman · and Ehrlichman to see to it that \the investigation of the FBI and CIA did not disclose the activities of the special inteUigence units of the White House.\ , McCloskey stated that he was certain that the House Judiciary Committee had reached the same conclusion and it was his belief that the House would vote \in favor of impeachment by May or June,\ although he had \no knowledge of what the Senate might do.\ The Congressman accounted for the slowness of the impeachment process and the possibility of its failure as an indication that \the presidency has been deified by the American people.\ According to McCloskey, this deification has been responsible. for the public's \fear of impeachment.\ Such fear has an effect on the impeachment process for, as McCloskey stated, \we can't impeach the President unless public opinion supports it.\ He indieated that the fear of impeachment is unjustified for \we elect a man to preside, not rule, and this is what impeachment will Mtempt to restore.\ After Congressman McCloskey's address, a reception was held in the Social Science Faculty Lounge. . There, he answered the additional questions of students for more than an h'our. The Congressman's address was a part of a continuing series of lectures on contemporary political dissent sponsored by the Political. Forum. Levrs Dave's· Mens Shop I . .t53 State St~ . . '·.(do-own ~bCneclacly) j Health Care Administration. Yale University's Pregram ,of tl~e Dep~rtment of Epidemiology and Public Health requires a Bachelor's degree \in a discipline teleyant to· public health either through study or experience or corn~ination.\ Other Career Opportunities .. According to Susanna Miller, Director of Placement, a Master's degree .in business administration is '\appropriate for anyone regardless of background.'' An M.B.A. program teaches students how to administer and manage businesses through understanding problem solving and ml).nagerial systems. Students go on to work in business areas, sometimes doing similar tasks to lawyers, as in labor relations. There are also industrial and lal>or relations programs where students h~ceive M.I.L.R. degrees. While a difficult field to break into With a Master's degree, according to Ms. Miller, students with such a degree can go on to work for the Department of La,bor or for private corporations doing collective hargaini~g. Fields opened for biology students, tbough sornewhl:lt difficult to enter,. include work as laboratory and research institute personnel. Conservation jobs and teaching jobs, both high school and college, ate limited but availabl~ for those who .plan to go on for :their Master's or Ph.D. Ms. Miller has also suggested that biology majors. think of pursuing an occupation in library science. Library science schools according to Ms. Miller are just \'crying for people With technical and medical backgrounds to train as medical librarians.\ These jobs generally pay rather well. The.re are also criminal justice programs. These are aimed at training ·people to look at a community in terms of its police protection needs. These professionals determine such questions as whe.re citizens' money should be spent and how. SUMMER JOBS AT&T Long Lines has a special summer program in Mana[!ement Development in . which students ·learn about . the telephone industry. Two positions are available to students who have some prior business experience in engineering. and 11 good GP A. The deadline at the Placement Office is April 30. Scholarships for graduate · study in library science are available. The application deadline in April 30. 1974. Contact Phillis Wheatly Community Library. 13 Bronson Ave.. Rochester.· New York. 1460R. Volunteers are needed to tutor immediately for students preraring for the high school equivalency exams (GED). future ~references for teaching rreraration. Contact Sister Francesca or Michael Varno . 346-1277. Fourteen positrons are available for Vista volunteers in Salt Lake City. ranginp; from teacher-tutors. recreation. construc~ion. and • public relations personnel in a Spanish-speaking area. A living allowance of $275 per month plus a $50 a month bonus at the end of the year is paid for every month served. For information on this and other opportunities listed above. contact the Placement Office. Apply soon. PI .. Til place aband buildi the th - the alway life a being patter which aiid 11 Tw, of .tht the actcm Gomic; truth is ine or an acton the ~theatr audit4 r.etutr to a . and ( their The and t They King in Shak' the ( stage fa:mo Mary We in work Toyt the back' Shen debu heav~ cha01 afraic Fathc birth Shar, Go~~ h·um·: silen1 falls Harv boss Til week and at 8 bein1 019, \( Bern peop knov ourst WA mean they work progr imm~ work numl every a bun pres unde there grad de vel A prog1 incor prese (fresl junio the J Shan Engi1

Page4 CONCORDIENSJS, Thursday, April 18, 1974 'Butterfly' Performed Alternate Career Fields by LAUREN GORDON History has a way of repeating itself, possibly because man chooses not to learn from past mistakes, but rather insists on making them himself time after time after time. One of th.e most popular historic themes is death of the innocent in the name of war. Death after all, claims everyone Youflnd it everywhere. It catches ilp with even tho5e Who wear their noses in the air With a certain justice, so That helps perhaps to sweet('n The poor man's pain and WO(' The Columbus Boychoir of Princeton (Donald Hanson, Director), in a scholarship concert for the Temple Community Service Corps, sponsored by Temple Gates of Heaven, Union College, and Union College Hillel, presented I Never Saw Another Butterfly. This is a choral work based upon poetry by children of the Terezin concentration camp. Terezin was a way station to Auschwitz and other death camps run by the Nazis in WW II. At the beginning of the concert, the audience was asked to ()bserve a moment of silent prayer for the eighteen Israeli villagers from the border town of Kiryat Shernonah which was attacked by terrorists from Lebanon, April II. History repeats itself. The program consisted of A Singing of Angels, a song by the Boychoir with narration by Nicki Weiss and Lotte Swartz, followed by presentations by Union Professors Hans Freund and Stephen Berk. Prof. heund's reading of the !37th Psalm once again linked two unseemingly related events, one in an Israeli village in 1974 and the other in a German concentration camp (Revenge Upon Israel's Foes) is \an eye for an eye and a tooth for a tooth,\ the solution? After Professor Berk's reading there was a slide presentation of the Art of Terezin, during which minds were allowed to drift and discover what emotions and ideas lay within. The feature of the evening was t h e C o I u m b us B o y c ho i r 's performance of I Never Saw Another Butterfly, set to music by Charles Davidson. The staging, done by Denis Rosa, was well executed by Boychoir members, who average about ten years of age. Their performance of the poetry collection elicited both universal and personal responses from the Memorial Chapel audience, which made it all very worthwhile. One cannot describe to another the overall effect of these words, movements, music. It was an attempt to let us see a glimpse of Terezin, but we can never know. The world's ahloom and seems to smile I want to f7r hut high? I( in barhed wire. hloorn where. how thin{(s 'an Wh1• couldn't I? l will not die! I'd like to go awa\' alone Where there are other nicer people Somewhere into the far unknown There - where no one kills another. by PHYLLIS EDELMAN The average Un,ion student may not @eJ,ieve it, but the scope of career and graduate opportunities does extend beyond the limits of law and medicine. Among the several alternatives are public administration and international affairs, health planning and administration, business administration, labor relations, library science, and criminal justice. Prof. James Underwood, Acting Chairman of the Department of Political Science, claims there are at least sixty schoo,Js which offer a Master's degree in Public Administration. These programs often concentrate on urban or international public affairs. Sometimes, enrollment in a public administration program includes taking courses at a 'law school. This could be a .stepping stone to admission into that law schooL ' Most Master's degree programs in public administration are only a year long. Admission requirements are relatively liberal. Northwestern University requires no prior study in either business or management for admission into their Graduate School of Management. Neither does Carnegie-Mellon University's School of Urban and Public Affairs have rigid requirements. Some programs, like Princeton University's Woodrow Wilson School of Public and International Affairs, require good academic performance, a background in the social sciences and a commitment to a career in public affairs. Of those who graduate with M.P.A.'s about 50% go on to work for the federal government. Tfue remainder work for the state and local government, except for the few who work for consuHing firms and public interest groups. Those who pursue a career in international public affairs work on a world-wide basis. Careers in Health Health planning ar:~d health or hospital adm~nistration programs may be of interest to students whose undergraduate backgrounds have been in either biology or political science. These careers may be of particular interest to those who want to be in a hospital setting but either cannot or do not want to become a doctor. The business side of a hospital, including budget, staffing and management are the concern of hospital administrators. These jobs are relatively wel·l-paying. Graduate School programs in hospital and health services administration lead to the M.S. degree. Often they have no specific requirement for undergrads, as with Ohio State University's program and Washington University (St. Louis), Graduate Program m Me Closkey Marches On C ontinued from Page I fighting enemies a'nd upholding the Constitution.\ This line was crossed by President Nixon, and according to McCloskey, \this essentially is the story of Watergate.\ McCloskey elaborated on this premise by exammmg the President's policy in regard to the Vietnam war. In 1968, during his presidential campaign, Nixon asserted he had \a secret plan to end the war.\ Nixon rested the success of his plan on its secrecy. Thus. those that interferred in any way with the President's plan were considered enemies. In the spring of 1970, at the height of the protest over our invasion of Cambodia, H. R. Haldeman had stated publicly that those who spoke against the war were our worst enemies and destroyed \our ability to conduct the war.\ McCloskey related that in July, 1970, an ad.hoc intelligence Now you can protect yourself against muggers, rapists and worse with this amazing new whistle, Wear it agency was created by the administration to fight the anti- war movement. This agency violated the rights of individuals by employing the weapon of surreptitious entry. In June, 1971, with the release of the Pentagon Papers, a special 'plumbers' unit was created under the auspices of Charles Colson with its objective, as Colson put it, \to neutralize Daniel Ellsberg.\ The burglarizing of Ellsberg's psychiatric file was directed towards this goal. Among those directly involved in the planning of this burglary were John Ehrlichman and Egil Krough, both close advisers to the President. We now know that the plumbers engaged in a significant number of other activities (political 'tricks,' the Watergate break·in, the 'screwing' of people on the White House enemies list, etc.) which violated individuals' as a necklace or carry it as a key chain. Its long-range penetrating shrill brings help in a hurry. The next dark n1ght (that's tonight!) you'll feel a lot safer .just knowing you have the greatest protection in the world. Gives obscene phone callers a shrilling earful, too. GET IT BEFORE YOU HAD ll! COME IN OR MAIL HANDY COUPON Yes I I want to be saved! Send me_ London-Like Whistles _Key Chain _Necklace INumberl_ Chrome __ I enclose $3.00 for each London-Like Whistle. I understand that if 1 am not Family Jewels Ltd. 11 3431 West Villard Avenue Iota v satisfied, I will receive a complete Milwaukee, Wisconsin 53 2 09 refund 1f returned in 10 days. NAME------------------~----------------- STREET NUMBER------------------------------ CITY STATE ___ ziP rights. McCloskey asserted that Nixon himself was \guilty of a felony\- obstruction of justice. The Congressman rested his assertion on the conflict between Nixon's statement in August 1972 that \a full effort\ was being made by the FBI and CIA to uncover any evidence of wrongdoing in Watergate, and Nixon's revelation in May, 1973 that he had instructed Haldeman and Ehrlichman to see to it that \the investigation of the FBI and CIA did not disclose the activities of the special intelligence units of the White House.\ McCloskey stated that he was certain that the House Judiciary Committee had reached the same conclusion and it was his belief that the House would vote \in favor of impeachment by May or June,\ although he had \no knowledge of what the Senate might do.\ The Congressman accounted for the slowness of the impeachment process and the possibility of its failure as an indication that '\the presidency has heen deified by the American people.\ According to McCloskey, this deification has been responsible for the public's \fear of impeachment.\ Such fear has an effect on the impeachment process for, as McCloskey stated, \we can't impeach the President unless public opinion supports it.\ He indicated that the fear of impeachment is unjustified for \we elect a man to preside, not rule, and this is what impeachment will attempt to restore.\ After Congressman McCloskey's address, a reception was held in the Social Science Faculty Lounge. There, he answered the additional questions of students for more than an hour. The Congressman•s address was a part of a continuing series of lectures on contemporary political dissent sponsored by the Political Forum. tevfs Dave's. Mens Shop 453 State St. (downtown Sc:hencetady) Health Care Administration. Yale University's Program of the Department of Epidemiology and Public Health requires a Bachelor's degree ''in a discipline relevant to public health either through study or experience or combination.\ Other Cal'eer Opportunities According to Susanna Miller, Director of Placement, a Master's degree in business administration is \appropriate for anyone regardless of background.\ An M.B.A. program teaches students how to administer and manage businesses through understanding prohlem solving and managerial systems. Students go on to work in business areas, sometimes doing similar tasks to lawyers, as in labor relations. There a,re also industrial and labor relations programs where students 1eceive M.I.LR. degrees. While a difficult field to break into with a Master's degree, according to Ms. Miller, students with such a degree can go on to work for the Department of Labor or for private corporations doing collective bargaining. Fields opened for biology students, though somewhat difficult to enter, include work as laboratory and research institute personnel. Conservation jobs and teaching jobs, both high school and college, are limited but available for those who plan to go on for their Master's or Ph.D. Ms. Miller has also suggested that biology majors think of pursuing an occupation in library science. Library science schools according to Ms. Miller are just \crying for people with technical and medical backgrounds to train as medical librarians.\ These jobs generally pay rather well. There are also criminal justice programs. These are aimed at training people to look at a community in terms of its police protection needs. These professionals determine such questions as where citizens' money should be spent and how. SUMMER JOBS AT&T Long Lines has a special summer .program in Management Development in which students learn ahout the telephone industrv. Two positions are available to students who have some prior husiness experience in engineering. and!! good GPA. The deadline at the Placement Office is April 30. Scholarships for f!raduatc stud\ in liorarv science are availaole. The application deadline in April ~0. )(}74. Contact Philli-; Wheat!\· Comm unit\' l.ihrarv. 13 Bronson Ave.. Rochester. '\lew York. 141iOR. V olu ntcers are needed to tutor immediately for studenh preparinp for the hifo!h school equi\'alency exams (GED). future references for teachin_g preparation. Contact Sister Francesca or Michael Varno. 346-1277. Fourteen P'Ositions are availaole for Vista volunteers in Salt Lake Citv. rangin_g from teacher-tutors. recreation. construction. and puhlic relations personnel in a Spanish-speakinf! area. A living allowance of $275 per month plus a $50 a month bonus at the end of the year is paid for every month served. For information on this and other opportunities listed a hove. contact the Placement Office. Applv soon. i '~ I I I~ ' ~ ! - p .. II place a ban< build ~he tl - th alwa3 life < being patte: whicl a-nd 1 Tv. of th the ac~or comi1 truth is ine or ar actor the the at audit retur to a and' their Th and· They King In Shak the 1 stage fame Ma~ Weir wor~ Toy the hack Sher debu heav chan afrai Fath hirtr Shar Gorl hum silen falls Har• boss TI wee! and at 8 be in 0 19, \( Berr: pear kno1 ours WA mear they wod prog 1mm wor~ num ever~ a bur pre~ unde there; grad deve A prog in co presc (fres juni< the Shar Engi .• ., ..

CONCORDJENS!S. Thursday, April/8, /974 Page5 Pre·view: Cave Dwellers Editorial Shakeup .. The Cave Dwellers\ takes place on the stage of an abandoned theatre because all buildings are caves; and because the theatre is the cave at its best - the last arena in which aU is always possible. In the .caves of life all has. long s~nce st()pped being possible •. in favor of a pattern of fonmal repetition, wP.ich man finds only amusing and monotonous. moment of glory in which we were eltb.er a King, Queen, Quke, a sweet innocent girl aU alone in the world, or a beat that thinks it's human. If you ate one of those people who wotild like to c()me lJack and relate to a believable reality, \The Cave Dwt!llers\ is your type of pl'ay. by HANS KIRKEGAARD The Union College newspaper, Concordiensis, has undergone a massive reshuffling of its editorial board. Believing in thoughts ex·pressed by Thomas Jefferson and Mao Tse Tung, in the neces sjty to pe.riodically\ reinV:igorate an organization through massive upheaval in order to bring new momentum, and new creativity into the bureaucracy, the Editors-In-Chief gave their solemn nod of approval to what some Well-informed sources are calling the \Second Saturday Night Massacre.\ J.t must be stressed that a few of the changes in the editorial board had nothing to do with these actions. Some of the replaced editors, like Phyllis Edelman (features editor), left the board because ·of a heavy course load, besides the desire to enter new Two of the leading characters of the play, ealled the King and the Queen. are professional actors, old, unemployed, ill, and comic;J, because apart from the truth that every man in the world is inevitably an actor of one sort or another, who else but .rejected actors would find sanctuary on the stage of · an abandoned ,theatre, within a silent and empty auditorium? Who else would r.etutn with silent regret and hope to a fallen e1ppire except a King and Queen driven long ago from their own realms? Parent Playtime The cast consists of eleven fine and talented actors and a<;tresses. They are Stanley Kaminsky as the King w}JQ used to be a clown, Was in vaudeville and did Shakespeare; Dawn Walworth as the Queen,. who used · to be on stage playing such great and far'nol.ls characters as Catherine, Mary, Ann, and Bess;. ,lane Weiner as the girl, who used to work for a company called U.S. Toy until she was fired for putting the hammers ori a gun in backwards one day; big bad Peter Sherman making his first theatre debut as the Duke, a retired heavyweight boxer who lost the championship because he was afraid of hitting his oppo.nent; the Father and Mother who give birth on stage--are played by Sharon GroHman and Sam King~ Go~k_y, the bear th;'lt thinks it's h\uman is Fran{( Hoster. The silent Boy is Blair Reischer, who falls in love with the girl. Bruce Harvey plays the wrecking crew boss who can't cry. The play will go up the fifth week of spring term, May 8, 9, 10, and l I in Nott Memorial starting · at 8 p.m. every night. The play is being rehearsed in Humanities 019, Sunday through Thursday. \Cave Dwellers\ is directed by Bernard Carey. It is a play about people, and who among us would know more about people than we ourselves. We have all had our WATT PROGRAM Continued from Page I meanhtgful contributions Qelore they graduate through project work. Also, a graduate of the program will be ready to step immediately into energy-related work, an area with a large number of available jobs and every indication of continuing, abundance. The program is presently limited to the undergraduate level, though if there is sufficient interest a graduate program may be developed. invited to attend. Some of the highlights of .Friday include a tennis game at 2:00 p.m. between :Union and Rochester, and parent registration ($1.00 fee at Student Activiti~s .office) from I :304:30 and 7:30- P.&.I\BNTS!J WIIBBBR'D . . ........ . '--\') PEBfORMA.NCES: ~ ........... , .... THURSDAY, FRIDAY, & SATUIIDAY NilES •• I p.m. SATURDAY MATINEE n 2 p.m. • ltn Mlll811.& TIU!BI ' Union stltdellls and {DCIIIQ-••• free General ad•lssloR ••. $1 ~ • For reservations, calll70·61S3 • Orientation Committee The Orientation Committee is in full gear in preparation for the Class of '78. Applications must be returned to the Dean of Students Office by Monday, April 22. All applicants must sign up for an interview time-~pot at the Dean of Students Office. This year all applicants will be interviewed by the Committee. In the past, RA's had automatically been assigned as Orientation Advisors, foregoing the screening process. The Committee's plans for Orientation Week have been delayed by the College Senate's failure to determine the fall calendar. Members Were hopeful that the Senate would arrive at its decision soon, SQ.,.that planning would not be further delaved. The Orientation Committee i!!. comprised of Chairmen Sue Brecher and Dave Heilberg; Assistant Chairmen· Berta Hershkowitz and Bill Talis; Bruce Downsbrough, Pat Clarey, Pete McKernon, Lynn Yelton; Debbie Boghosian, Fred Pressley, and Harriet Kaplan. Heading the Freshman Picnic will be Vicki Rosenbaum, Matt Brief, Jay Kasner, and Julie Rothenstein. All campus organizations that wish to be included in the Orientation program must ·inform the Committee of their intentions during spring term. 8:30. H iHel Sabbath Services, followed by Kiddush, will begin at 7:3G p.m. in Satrauss Lounge. The evening's entertainment will .include the Mountebanks' prQduction of Arsenic and Old La!'!e, with wine .and cheese as refreshments, a reception at the Nott Memorial, the Mitchell Ruff Duo in Memorial Chapel as well as the film Shadows, directed by John ,Cas·savetes, in SS 016. All events will begin at 8:00 p.m. Sporting equipment and facilities will be available to students and their parents from 8:GO a.m.-~:00 p.m. on Saturday. Parents can register in Memorial Chapel ($1.00) from 9:00-12:30. From 10:00 to 4:00 p.m. the Union College Child Care Cooperative will hold a plant, book, cr~ft, and bake sale in Mcilwaine Court. Prize Day Exercises, including a welcome to parents by President Martin and some selections by the Glee Club, will take place from 11:30-12:30 in Library Court (Memorial Chapel in case of rain). At noon, Union will play Siena in tennis, and at 1:00 p.m. the Child Care Cooperative w.ill hold an auction in Mcllwaine Court. Final registration in Memorial Chapel will take place from I :30-3:00 p.m. A lot is happening m the afternoon on Saturday. Junior Varsity and Varsity lacrosse games vs. Middlebury will be · held, as well as a varsity baseball game vs. Hamilton. The Women's Glee Club will perform in Arts 202 and the Mountebanks will once again present Arsenic and Old Lace. At 7:00 p.m. the Union College Film Committee is presenting the film Lady Sings the Blues, starring Diana Ross. There is a $.50 charge for Union Students and a 75 cents fee for guests. At 8:00 p.m. Arsenic and Old Lace will again be performed, and at 9:00 p.m. Union's own Chet Arthur and the Flaming Aces will sing in Memorial Chapel. At 9:40 the film will be ·shown again. Athletic facilities will be available all day on Sunday, and at 7 and 9:40 p.m. L~dy Sings the Blues will again be presented. Final details and a more complete schedule will be available at Registration. A notk:e about this new program has .already been sent to incoming freshmen. However, present students in engineering (freshmen, sophomores, ' and juniors) are encouraged to join r-~--~--~--~~---~----~-~---, IJ'ftfch i lltint Vermont I tevrs the program as well; see Prof. Dave•s· Mens Shop Shanebrook in the Mechanical .·(· 453 State St. Engineering Departmerit. _ (dqwntown Schc~tady) ~~--------~~~ .. ~. ·~· •:«;~ \A QUlETBAR ... A PLACETO TALK\ THE Red Fox Inn PIZZA FRIDAY & SATURDAY 5-12 P.M. BUD BY THE PITCHER 123.JAY ST. SCHENECTADY . ..1!1.: I expert instruttiPR in the I 1· scenic hills tff Vermont I OORM STYLE LODGING AND ALL MEALS I I I JULY 7-27 --t450--LIMl'l'ED ENROLLMENT WRITE--THE MINUS EYE \fORKSHO p I CHATEAU ECOLE, PITTSWRI>, VT. 0$763 I ,..... ____________ , ________________ ....._ .. endeavors. _Bl!L. Erich son, ·formerl.y ~ne of the photography editors, departed out of a desire to enjoy his final term at Union without the pressures that a key editor does face. Geoff Taylor, an ambitious and talented journalist on UColl campus, has become the News Editor. Taylor, an RA at Potter House, is also known around aampus from his work at a mental hospital. He is expected to give a slightly different slant to news articles.. Cliff Langweiler, co- photo editor with Leslie Steinecker, was recruited to Concordy through what informed sources stated was a powerful struggle between Concordy and Life Magazine. Cliff chose Concordy, it is reported, because the newspaper offered greater opportunities to express his creativity. Heads did roll! Though unaware of the events surrounding the affair, Lisa Tietz has become the new Subscriptions Editor, replacing Gene Rosenblum. Gene Rosenblum, it is reported, has flown from the country to Seville, Spain. Robert M ondshein, former Blithering Editor, and prior to the upheaval Managing Editor, is now the new Concordiensis Foreign Correspondent. His first assignment is to investigate wh~er diplomatic relations are to be set up between the United States and Key Biscayne. Christopher P. O'Connor, known' in .the Press Corps as \Schporto\ who was a Blithering Editor and became a Managing Editor~f Concordy has realized his true potential, and is once again a Blithering Editor. . Those left unscathed by events of the previous weeks are Peter Sobol, Culture Editor; Phil Alcabes, Copy Editor; and the two Editors-In-Chief of Concordy, whose decisions have helped to make dynasties, Judy Dein and Bill Talis. LOll EST JET FARES TO EUROPE of any scheduled airline from · from · NEW YORK CHICAGO 1 187 1 229. One/way to Luxembourg' through May 31 Effective for individuals on scheduled jets to Lux- embourg in the heart of Europe. SAVE $72 to $101 on overseas stays of .over 45 days against lowest comparable fares of any other scheduled airline. SHOW INITIATIVE! SAVE MORE MONEY! Students can arrange their own Affinity Groups of 25 or more passengers and qualify for Icelandic's low- est-cost one-way affinity fares .... No other airline of- fers one-way affinity fares. SAVE via Icelandic no mat- ter when you leave or how long you stay. SEE YOUR TRAVEL AGENT. Prices subject to change. ---~------- To: Icelandic Airlines 630 5th Ave., N.Y., N.V.l0020 (212) 757-8585 . . Send folder CN on Lowest Youth Fares to Europe 0 Name ______ _ Street ______ _ CitY-~-------- ICElANDIC .AIRUIIES

tl j ~il< : l . I 1 i ! ' i ·~ I ·i . i I ··' .~ i ~ i CONCORD!ENSlS, Thursday, April/8, 1974 PageS Preview: Cave Dwellers Editorial Shakeup \The Cave Dwellers\ takes place on the stage of an abandoned theatre because all buildings are caves, and because ~he theatre is the cave at its best - the last arena i·n which all is a,Jways possible. In the caves of life aH has long since stopped being possible, in favor of a pattern of forma-l repetition, which man finds on1ly amusing and monotonous. Two of the leading characters of the play, cai'Ied the King and the Queen, are ('lrofessional actors, old, unem('lloyed, iJil, and comic, because a('lart from the truth that every mall. in the world is inevitably an act&r of one sort or another, who else hut rejected actors would find sanctuary on the stage of an abandoned theatre, within a si•lent and empty auditorium? Who else would return with sHent regret and hope to a fal:len empire except a King and Queen driven long ago from their own realms? The cast consists of eleven fine and talented actors and actresses. They are Stanley Kaminsky as the King who used to be a clown, was in vaudeville and did Shakespeare; Dawn Walworth as the Queen, who used to be on stage playing such great and famous chancters as Catherine, Mary, Ann, and Bess; Jane Weiner as the girl, who used ta work for a company called U.S. Toy until she was fired for putting the hammers on a gun in back wards one day; big bad Peter Sherman making his first theatre debut as the Duke, a retired heavyweight boxer who lost the championship because he was afraid of hitting his opponent; the Father and Mother who give birth on stage are played by Sharon Grollman and Sam King. Gorky, the bear that thinks it's human, is Frank Hoster. The silent Boy is Blair Reischer, who falls in love with the girl. Bruce Harvey plays the wrecking crew boss who can't cry. The play will go up the fifth week of s('lring term, May 8, 9, I 0, and II in Nott Memorial starting at 8 p.m. every night. The play is being rehearsed in Humanities 019, Sunday through Thursday. \Cave D\\ellers\ is directed by Bernard Carey. It is a play about people, and who among us would know more about people than we ourselves. We have all had our WATT PROGRAM Continued from Page I meaningful contributions oetore they graduate through project work. Also, a graduate of the program will be ready to step immediately into energy-related work, an area with a large number of available jobs and every indication of continuing l abundance. The program is presently limited to the undergraduate level, though if there is sufficient interest a graduate program may be developed. A notice about this new program has already been sent to incoming freshmen. However, present students in engineering (freshmen, sophomores, and juniors) are encouraged to join the program as well; see Prof. Shanebrook in the Mechanical Engineering Department. ..:a: .. • moment of glory in which we were either a King, Queen, Duke, a sweet innocent girl all alone in the world, or a bear that thinks it's hurnan. If you are one of those people wh0 would like to come back and relate to a believable reality, '\The Cave Dwellen\ is your type of play. by HANS KIRKEGAARD The Union CoHege newspaper, f'oncordiensis, has undergone a massive reshuffling of its editorial board. Believing in thoughts expressed by Thomas Jefferson and Mao Tse Tung, in the necessity to periodically reinvigorate an organization through massive upheaval in order to bring new momentum, aad new creativity into the bureaucracy, the Editors-In-Chief gave their solemn nod of approval to what some well-informed sources are calling the \Second Saturday Night Massacre.\ It must be stressed that a few of the changes in the editorial board had nothing to do with these actions. Some of the replaced editors, like Phyllis Edelman (features editor), left the board beca1:.1se of a heavy course load, besides the desire to enter new Parent Playtime This year, Pa~ents' Weekend \viH be held on April 26, 27, and 28. It is sponsored by the Delphic Society, U n,ion's student honorary organiz:a,tion, and features a wide variety of events. Most of the activities will be free; all are invited to attend. Some of the highlights of Friday include a tennis game at 2:00 p.m. between Union and Rochester, and pa~ent registration ($1.00 fee at Student Activities office) from 1:30-4:30 and 7:30- ~-(C •nd OLlJ ~1) A ~~AY ~ ~ JOSEPH KESSELRING ~ r-~.;::;... - -\==\~._., :.&B.BRTSfl WBill:IEBN:D ... ~ ... ......-.>PERFORMANCES: C\\ ••••& ••.••.•• THURSDAY, FRIDAY, & SATURDAY MITES at 8 p.m. SATURDAY MATINEE •• 2 p.m. .. ltTT MIIIOII.IL TIIITII Onion students and facu/IJ ·••. free General ad1Risslon ••• $1 ~ • For reservations. call 370·6153 • Orientation Committee The Orientation Committee is in full gear in preparation for the Class of '78. Applications must be returned to the Dean of Students Office by Monday, April 22. All applicants must sign up for an interview time-spot at the Dean of Students Office. This year all applicanh \\ill be interviewed by the Committee. In the past. RA's had automatically been assigned as Oricntati~w Advisors. foregoing the screening process. I he Committee's plans for Orientation Week have been delayed by the College Senate's failure to determine the fall calendar. Members were hopeful that the Senate would arrive at its decision soon, so\ that planning would not be further delaved. The Orientation Committee is. comprised of Chairmen Sue Brecher and Dave Heilberg; Assistant Chairmen· Berta Hershkowitz and Bill Talis; Bruce Downsbrough, Pat Clarey, Pete McKernan, Lynn Yelton, Debbie Boghosian, Fred Pressley, and Harriet Kaplan. Heading the !· reshman Picnic will be Vicki Rosenbaum. Matt Brief, Jay Kasner, and Julie Rothenstein. All campus organizations that v.ish to be included in the Orientation program must inform the Committee of their intentions during spring term. 8:30. Hillel Sabbath Services, followed by Kiddush, will begin at 7:30 p.m. in Satrauss Lounge. The evening's entertainment wiU include the Mountebanks' prQduction of Arsenic and Old Lace, with. wine and cheese as refreshments, a reception at the Nott Memorial, the MitcheH Ruff Duo in Memorial Chapel as well as the film Shadows, directed by John Cassavetes, in SS 016. All events will begin at 8:00 p.m. Sporting equipment and facilities will be available to students and their pal'ents from 8:00 a.m.-5:00 p.m. on Saturday. PareAts can register in Memorial Chapel ($1.00) from 9:00-12:30. From 10:00 to 4:00 p.m. the Union College Child Care Cooperative will hold a plant, book, craft, and bake sale in Me llwaine Court. Prize Day Exercises, including a welcome to parents by President Martin and some selections by the Glee Club, will take place from 11:30-12:30 in Library Court (Memorial Chapel in case of rain). At noon, Union will play Siena in tennis, and at I :00 p.m. the Child Care Cooperative will hold an auction in Mcllwaine Court. Final registration in Memorial Chapel will take place from I :30-3:00 p.m. A lot is happening in the afternoon on Saturday. Junior Varsity and Varsity lacrosse games vs. Middlebury will be held, as well as a varsity baseball game vs. Hamilton. The Women's Glee Club will perform in Arts 202 and the Mountebanks will once again present Arsenic and Old Lace. At 7:00 p.m. the Union College Film Committee is presenting the film Lady Sings the Blues, starring Diana Ross. There is a $.50 charge for Union Students and a 75 cents fee for guests. At 8:00 p.m. Arsenic and Old Lace will again be performed, and at 9:00 p.m. Union's own Chet Arthur and the Flaming Aces will ;.ing in Memorial Chapel. At 9:40 the film will be shown again. Athletic facilities will be ~1\ailable all day on Sunday, and at 7 and 9:40 p.m. Lady Sings the Blues will again be presented. Final details and a more complete schedule will be available at Registration. r-~~~---------~----------~---, I fftlc!J i /lain! Vtrmonf Dave's. Meas Shop ~3 Slate St. (dowatown Schenectady) \A QUIET BAR ... A PLACE TO TALK\ expert instructiPn til the stentc hills ut Vermont THE Red Fox Inn PIZZA FRIDAY & SATURDAY S-12 P.M. BUD BY THE PITCHER 123.JAY ST. SCHENECTADY .·~ Y.W ....... ·~·,_ ••. , ., ... ,~..,.,~-m:::mil®m. ·. OORM STYLE LODGING AND ALL MEALS JULY 7-27--$~50--LIMITED ENROLLMENT WRITE--THE MINUS EYE WORKSHOP CHATEAU ECOLE, PITTSFORD, VT. 0.5763 ....---------------~-------------· endeavors. ~Bi_U Erichson, formerly one of the photo1lra('lhy editors, departed out of a desire to enjoy his final term at Union without the pressures that a key editor does face. Geoff Taylor, an ambitious and talented journalist on U Co II campus, has become the News Editor. Taylor, an RA at Potter House, is also known around campus from his work at a mental hospitaL He is expected to give a slightly different slant to news articles. Cliff Langweiler, co- photo editor with Leslie Steinecker, was recruited to Concordy through what inf0rmed sources stated was a powerful struggle between Concordy and Life Magazine. Cliff chose Concmdy, it is reported, because the newspa('let offered greater opportunities to express his creativity. Heads did roll! Though unaware of the events surrounding the affair, Lisa Tietz has become the new Subscriptions Editor, replacing Gene Rosenblum. Gene Rosenblum, it is reported, has flown from the country to Seville, Spain. Robert Mondshein, former Blithering Editor, and prior to the upheaval Managing Editor, is now the new Concordiensis Foreign Correspondent. His first assignment is to investigate whe.Wler diplomatic relations are to be set up between the United States and Key Biscayne. Christopher P. O'Connor, known in the Press Corps as \Sch('lorto\ who was a Blithering Editor and became a Managing Editor~f Concordy has realized his true potential, and is once again a Blithering Editor. Those left unscathed by events of the previous weeks are Peter Sobol, Culture Editor; Phil Alcabes, Copy Editor; and the two Editors-In-Chief of Concordy, whose decisions have helped to make dynasties, Judy Dein and Bill Talis. LOWEST JET FARES IDEUROPE of any scheduled airline from. from NEW YORK CHICAGO '187 1 229 One, way to Luxembourg through May 31 Effective for individuals on scheduled jets to Lux- embourg in the heart of Europe. SAVE $72 to $101 on overseas stays of over 45 days against lowest comparable fares of any other scheduled airline. SHOW INITIATIVE! SAVE MORE MONEY! Students can arrange their own Affinity Groups of 25 or more passengers and qualify for Icelandic's low- est-cost one-way affinity fares., No other airline of· fers one-way affinity fares. SAVE via Icelandic no mat· ter when you leave or how long you stay. SEE YOUR TRAV£l AGENT. Prices subject to change. To: Icelandic Airlines 630 5th Ave., N.Y., N.Y.l0020 (212) 757·8585 Send folder CN on Lowest Youth Fares to Europe 0 Name Street _______ _ CitY-~------ ICELANDIC .A/RUNES

'' Page6 Any member of the class of 1974 interested in becoming the Alumni Council Representative for the class should see Bill Kuchta or Jonathan Pearson in the Alumni Office as soon as possible. \' \' * * Lincoln C. White, Supervisor Cilf the Native American Education Unit of N.Y. State, himself a Mohawk, will be the first of a series of speakers hosted by the Comp~ Ed. class .on American Indians. Mr. White will speak Wed., April 24, at 8 p.m. in Strauss Loun.e;e. * * * * * The Institute of International Education announced the official opening of the 1975-76 grants for graduate study or research abroad and for professional training in the creative and performing arts. Information can be obtained from the ~ Institute of Intermttional Education, 809 U.N. Plaza, New York, N.Y., 10017. * * * * * An ad hoc committee has been formed to evaluate the qualifications for tenure of Prof. Gracey, Sociology. All persons wishing to make their views known to the committee are urged to contact Prof. Jonas, at once. * * * * * A Marx study group is being formed at Union this term. Capital and some other works will be studied by the grou!J, which will meet once a week. Contact James Meyer, 374-5653. * * * * * Students are encouraged to see PFOf. Pilcher concerning the tenure of Prof. Scaife. B·L.I.THER All persons interested in becoming Orientation Advisors and Transfer Advisors are encouraged t o. s ub mit applications at the Dean of Students Office. AU R.A.'s interested in· becoming Orientation Advisors must file application, for the Orientation Committee is review,ing all applicants this year. **'*'** Want to do something nice for someone'? The Human Services Planning Council of Schenectady needs ;people to help out with such worthy purposes as fixup work for the Red Cross, babysitting for mothers during a Big Bnthers training session for mothers, and assisting the Rotterdam Boys Club. Contact the council at 37.2-3395. * * * * * The Union College Karate Club is meeting again this term, Mondays and Wednesda.ys in Old Chapel, Mondays at 7:30, Wednesday at 2:30, an~. Fridays in Arts 202 at 2:30. * * * * * The Idol presents a poetry and fiction workshop every Tuesday night at 7:30p.m. in the first floor rooms of Carnegie (not Strauss Lounge). * * * * * The Women's Caucus meets every Monday night in Strauss Loung<;: at 9 p.m. * * * * * The first Workshop is.sue of the Idol is now available free in the libraFy. * * * * * The Sociology Department Maurice Grauhart & Sons THIS IS HERSHEL. MAURICE. AND WALTER -GRAUBART AT GRAUBART & ·SONS. SCHENECTADYS OLDEST FAMILY JEWELERS. WE VERY SELDOM 1\Dl/ERTISE OUR REPA.IR DEPARTMENT BECAUSE WE ARE KEPT BUSY MOST OF rHE TJME. WE'D LIKE-TO MENTION THAT WE OFFER A COMPLETE REPAIR SERVICE ON WATCHES AND JEWELRY ITEMS. OUR WATC'H REPAIRS_ ARE DONE BY EFFICIENT. HIGHLY SKILLED WATCHMAKERS. AND OUR WORK IS GUARANTEED TO BE SATISFACTORY. OUR REPAIR SHOP WITH OUR OWN J1WEL.ERS AND DIAMOND SETTERS CAN PERFORM MOST . oWELR Y REPAIRS. REMEMBER GRAUBART & SONS FOR I :LIABLE SERVICE. . i66 JAY ST. SCHENECTADY ~£~~~~~~AA ·~~~~~~A~A~~ LeVI.:S Dave's· Mens Shop 453 State St. {downto1m Scbencclady) FERRO'S PHARMACY 'STUDENT DISCOUNT . 575 Nott St. 377-1511 346-tliJ DARI- TREET 'Student Discount' . (with I.D.) 2049 VanVranken Mon.-Fri. 6-9, Sat. 8-9 377:-4261 ... CONCORDJENSIS, Thursday, Apri/18, 19?4 woul<;l like to purchase copies of Michael B. Katz, Class, Bureaucracy and Schools. See Prof. Gracey, SS215, ot Mrs. Mozgawa, SS212. * * * * * Applications for Gatesmen should be returned to the Admissions Office by Friday, April 19. For further information concerning the duties of the Gatesmen, contact Howie Epstein, 372-9721. * * * * * Back issues of Nationa-l Lampoon are needed. If you are willing to part with your treasures for a few weeks, contact Blair Reischer, 329 West. * * * * * Veterans should return their certification of attendance cards to rheir VA regional offices so that the agency may prepare their final check for the current school year. * * * * * Attention Mountebanks! There will be a general meeting of all Mounties Monday, April 29, at 7:00 p.m. in the Nott Memorial. Elections. will be held at this meeting: so be there! Nominations for officers can be made_ on the Gveen Room bulletin board. * *'* * * LeVI'S Dave's Mens Shop 453 State St. ·(doWD&owa ' · JAKE LIPSTEIN'S UQUORS Tel. 374-1881 Mon.-Sat. 9 a.m . ..-9 p.m. 464 State St. Downtown Schenecta4y --------------------------~----~--~ Photographers;.. if you are interested in becoming the theater photographer, call Cathy lanelli at 346-9303 by Friday even.ing. Course credit as an independent study is available for this position. * * * * * Gymnastics: Monday and Wednesday 7:00-8:30 p.m., trllmps, free exercise, parallel bars, vaulting horse and balance beam; men and women invited. * * * * * The Men's discussion Group will meet Tuesday, April 23, at 7 p.m. in Strauss Lounge. * * * * * Any student who is interested in applying to any committee, applications are available at Student Activities and must be returned there by MondllY April 22. For information on these committees, contact Mrs. Marra a,t the Student Activities Office, ca:U 6118. * * * * * The Coffeehouse ,oq Frida,y, April 19, will feature Sal:vo· and McLaughlin plus Union's Field aAd Werbs. * * * * * Monday, April 22, Schenectady Public Library 7:30 p.m. \How Safe are America's Atomic Reactors?\ film and panel !LOOK AT discussion . including .. Et:igeile Wright, President of Wright Malta Corporation, who has a plan for producing energy from garbage and waste. * * * * * Tuesday, April 23 Psychiatrist Thomas Szasz on mental illness. at Old Chapel, 1\1:30 a.m •. * •.• ' ' The Ail-College Senate will meet an April 25 to determine courses approved by the Curricular Affairs Committee and the calendar for 1974-75, 4:30 p.m. at Psych 213. * * * * * ' If interested in running for. the position of student Trustee from the class of 1976, please see Bruce Sostek, 255 Fox, to arrange to sit in on a Trustee meeting this weekend. 783 ALB(\NY ST. No deliwry char!?e with two 8 cut pizzas. ,WJ: DILIVEIC UNm MIDNIGIIT Call .374-$680 THIS! It's new .. It's original. The hottest sticker on the market. A beautiful 4 x 12 sticker in four. c:ol ors and remember the first and original keep on streaking stiders. Send 50¢ to: International Advertising Agency 3723 Catherine Street Shreveport, Louisiana 71109 (Dealer Inquirer Welcome) STA.TE DISTRIBVTORS WANTED Special Prices in 1,000 Lots it's .,.;J.•\ Th Ap~i. tenni will·.• camr coac! ever Mid( 4.( p reCOI in hi This pres! a li cxpe L~ last fFOlll Stu servi tFalll the squa duo Kevl UJ HaJ'( colle new· dO VII D corn] the ~ of prop '6E neilJI a sp An; is 'c imp( seek D als() fad corn pote cerll t'acil shor the I as Con Wee fl,l rink con beer of c for use exJll an()l one use that l ho'l\ pres hoc! reso to umt club COlli p \pa1 spo sub be1l C!>U are Sch ·r is p plat stru ria) ma1 divi \1 CX.CI

CONCORD!ENS!S. Thursdav, April/8, 1974 Page 7 Tennis Opens Season . ' Women s The curtain rises Thursday April 18 on the J974 varsity ten11is season; in what hopefully will he a third successive winniHg campaign. Last yea:rs squad under coach (lary Walters 'Posted a best ever mark of 7-1', losing_ only to Middlebury in the season finale 5- 4. (Percentage wise it was the best record posted by a Walter's team in his thr~e year stint at Unicm). This y~ars team wiH be hard pressed to equal that ma.rk due to· a lacl of both depth a·nd experience. l.Qst through graduation from last years p,oWerful line-up are front liners Marty Cu~ierman and Stu Fishier and, ·as well, the sen,ices of Dan Simons · who tm:nsfevred. Back again to lead the 74' edition of the Garnet squad will be the talented junior duo ()[ Roman Rakoczy and Kevin .Cr~wford whose sparkling Sports Complex Uni<m College President Hai'old C. Martin said today the college welcomes proposals for a new·sports-convention complex in dovlnt()Wn Schenectady. Dr. Martin, Who recently completed a teon as President of the Schenectady County Chamber of Commerce, said of the proposed complex: \ 6 Because downtown is a near neillllbor of the caippus, we have a special concern for its future. . An attractive, healthy center city is clearly an asset of major importance to the College when it seeks to .recruit students.\ Dr. Martin said the College also had some interest in various faci:lities proposed for the complex_ .. The meeting hall is potentially useful for us, and certainly . the proposed hotel facilities would alleviate a shmtage that always affects us at the time of big college events such as Homecoming, Commencement, and Parents Weekend.\ Proposals for an ice-hockey rink are also of interest to the college, Dr. Martin said. \We've been studying future development of our athletic p·Iant, and a rink for retreational and club-hockey use has been among the items explored. If there were to be another rink in the city, especially one that our hockey club might use for its. practice sessions, then that might affect our thinking;\ l'lle Union president indicated, however. that the college has no present plans to put a varsity hockey team on the ice. \Our resources simply don't permit us to consider anything more ambitious than a student-funded club team at this time,\ he concluded. 73' records were 7-1 and ~-u respectively. Pressing onee again for the top of the ladder is lone senior Jack Lauroesch who has reached top form after slow starts the previous two years. Also hack again for his third season is steady Steve•· Wayne 75', who posted a 3-2 mark last year. From early indications much will be expected from .frosh flashes Dennis Lindenberg and Steve Marcus; both are displaying excellent early season form. Help is expected from returnees Tim Moran and Bob Gerber as well as freshmen. Pa~:~l Dowkontt and Paul Wantuck. First year coach Ed Tornga is hoping for steady improvement throughout the spring aided by the fadfities in the fieldhouse in case of inclement weather. He is confide·nt that this year's team will come through with another superior dfort. This year's opener is against strong cross town rival R. P.l. 'Bleachers an~ set up at the courts behind Alumni Gym so come out, catch some rays and root on the Garnet netmen. Oh, and just in case, could you bring a shovel? Athletics by LAURA SHORE With the end of Winter term's confinement, the women at Union are actively supporting many athletic events. Aside from the regular spring courses of tennis, archery, weight training, lacrosse, paddleball, slimnastics, golf, swimming and field hockey, women can patticipate in a number of intramural and intercollegiate activities. Women's softball intramurals hega_n Monday, April 15. Presently there are seven teams involving over 70 women. The teams, organized by dormitory noor are: Fox 2nd and 3rd floors, Richmond 2nd, 3rd, and 4th Ooors, West 2nd and 3rd floors. Games are held Mondays and Wednesdays at 4:30 in Library Field. Young Midfield Key Union LacrOsse Hopes The two sports available for intercollegiate competitions are tennis and softball. Tennis practice is held this week in preparation for upcoming games April 22 at RPI, here for Russell Sage on April 25, and here for RPI on May 6. AH matches are held at 4:00 p.m. Women's in tetcolle.giate softball starts May 2 at R PI, May 6 at Siena, May 9 at SCCC and May 14 at SCCC. All games will begin at 4:00 p.m. by _PHIL JOHNSON How quickly a young midfield matures this spring should be the crucial factor as the Union College lacrosse team looks to top the'.500 mark for the first time in ' . - . four years. Veteran coach Bruce Allison has some standout performers on defense and attack but the m·idfield 1s do.minated by sophomores who have the necessary speed and potential but are as yet unproven in varsity competition. The Dutchmen, 5-7 last spring, open their 12 game schedule Wednesday, ApriliO at Siena and play the first game at home against Hartwick Saturday. April 13 on Daley Field. Heading the list -of veterans on hand this spring is All-American attackman Dennis Walker (Freeport, N.Y.) who last year scored 42 goals in posting a team high 51 points. Teamed with him for the third consecutive .season is junior Bo,b Grossman (N. Bellmore, N.Y.) who had 49 points last spring. The third starter up front should be freshma[l John Thompson (Larchmont, N.Y.) although another freshman John Eklund (Brightwaters, N.Y.) is in contention for that spot along with junior Steve Gullans (W. Simsbury, Conn.). The defense will be led by senior Dave Hochschartner (Manchester, N.H.), a three year veteran who Allison believes is set for an outstanding year. He should be flanked by returning starters Mike Garone \<Lindenhurst N.Y.), ajunior, and senior Bill Garofalo (Pt. Washington, N.Y.).- Sophomore Kurt Schumann (Islip, N.Y.) and freshmen Chris Osborne (Auburn, N.,y.) and Jim Thomas (Westminster, Md.) should also see action. Chi Psi Nips -BSA 51-48 by-BART MERCER Chi Psi's Joel Fisher scored 27 points from everywhere on . the Court and rebounded with amazing authority. He reminded one of David Thompson in his leaping ability. 'Unfortunately for the Black Student Alliance, Joel wam't David or else he would be playing for them. Needless to say, Chi Psi rallied several times to overcome the B.S. A. 51-48 in a hotly contested · game for the Union College Championship in Basketball. The game was played just before .. Finals Week\ of last term before a ravenous crowd of over .300 people. Chi Psi, with Fisher scoring in spurts and rebounding consistently, twice rallied from 7 point deficits as N.C. State did to nip the B.S.A. In the final seconds of the game a controversy erupted over whether one of B.S.A.'s players charged on a fast break. However, the \violent\ protests of the B.S. A. went unheeded and the final score stood. Curtis Rowe had his usual fine game for the B.S.A. as he pumped in 16 points mostly from the corners. Stan O'Brien contributed 12 points to the losing cause while Ricky Mayell added 10 for the winners. Black Student Alliance Basketball Tournament lhe second annual RPl Black Student Alliance Sophomore AI Ritchie (Hamden, Conn.) was the regular goalie last year but he is facing a challenge from freshman Steve Haddad (Longmeadow, Mass.) for the starting spot this season. Sophomores fip:ure to dominate at midfield with senior Jerry Dwyer (Schenectady, N.Y.) the only upperclassman on the top two lines. The first unit figures to be an all sophomore group with Jim Thompson (larchmont, N.Y.) Charlie Howe (W. Hartford, Conn.) and Mark Walsh Besides these teams, women are also invited to :participate in a number of special events scheduled throughout the Spring. All of these events are open. To participate you need only be present. Friday April 19, 4:30-6:00 p.m. Frisbee Championship, at Library Field Tuesday and Wednesday April 23 and 24, 4:30-6:00 p.m., Horse Shoe Tourney, Singles on Tuesday, doubles on Wednesday Friday April 26, 4:30-6:00 p.m., Archery, Daley Field (Baltimore, Md.) n-ow the I ine . ...... •a• G .............. -.-.- ••••• - ...... ¥ 0 .,-.-.-.- .. - ....... -.- ............ . ·rhe second .group should- be ·=·=·=·=·-·=·=·=·=·=·:.·:·:·:·:-:..:.:.:.·.···········l.······························· Dwyer with sophomores Don looks like sophomore Jim Collin Ward (Kansas City, Mo.) and (Bethesda, Md.) teamed with Bob Grabo (Rome, N.Y.) freshmen Jim Felix (Rockville Freshman Carl Walker (Rome, Centre, N.Y.) and Frank Pangle N.Y.) should be on the third line (Schenectady, N.Y.). with senior Stan O'Brien National power Cortland State (Dorchester, Mass.) and has been dropped from the Union sophomore Bruce Davis (Basking schedule this spring and has been Ridge, N.J.) while tl;le fourth line replaced by St. Lawrence. JJehinJ 'l1ze Cue tRail 0 If you like pool you will love this course. It will work miracles for you. It is designed to teach you how to become an expert at this fascinating game. It will improve your game 200% or more. This course is designed for the beginner and the- experienced play- ers. It's designed for those of you who has a pool table and those wha don't. The course is in eight (8} sessions all with illustrations and easy to follow instructions. The eight {8) sessions are selecting your cue; proper stance, stroke, straight in's, angles, rail shots, bank shots, how to use english, drawing a ball, how to break, patience, sportsmanship and much much more... To my knowledge there has never been a com- plete course offered in this ever growing fascinating game called pool. The complete course is yours for only $24.95. 0 nion's New Sport: Baskethall Tournament starts Thur~day at R7 Gym. (on RP'I campus). Mail to: BEHIND THE CUE BALL Post Office Box 10308 Dallas, Texas 75207 0 Please send me copies of BEHIND THE CUE BALL at $24.95 each, I enclose check or money order. by PHIL JOHNSON Pla1form tennis, also known as \paddle is a rapidly growing sport begun in the New York City suburban areas and now heiinning to spread across the C<Hllltry. The two courts 'at Union are believed to be the first in Schenectady County. The game resembles tennis and is played on an elevated 30' x 60' platform enclosed by tightfy strung chicken wire. Within the playing area is a 20' x 45' court ma1:ked like tennis with a net di\ ng the playing surface. The rules are also like tennis , cx.cep·t that only one serve is · Platform Tennis allowed and the ball after houncing in the court can be played off the wire walls. While the sport can 'be played vear round, it is generally ~onsidered a late fall, winter and eatly spring activity. Snow can easily be brushed off the surface and the courts lighted for night play. The game is played with a wooden paddle and an orange sponge rubber ball. 'fhe courts at the college are intended for general recreational purposes and are open to students, faculty and 'staff and alumni from 8 a.m. to II p.m. weekdays and days on the Weekends. Funds for the construction of the courts came from the Bailey Fund; an endoWment established ·in the will of the late Frank Bailey who graduated from Union in 1885 and served as treasurer of the college from 1901 until 1953. Rugby Saturday April 20, Union vs. Binghamton, library field I p.m. 0 Please send me copies of BEHIND THE CUE BALL at $24.95 each. I a:m interested in being a distributor in the __ ~---------------------------------area. Please indicate the city, town, county or state. A representative of BEHIND THE CUE BALL will contact you within 15 days after we receive your order to explain how you as a distributor can increase your income and have fun while doing it, with no invest- ment except for the course you purchase for yourself.

Page8 CONCORDTENS/S, Thursday, Apri/18, 1974 Concordy Sports Track Opens, 100-45 Win Over R.P.I. by ALISON SLOAT It was a severe plucking of tail feathers yesterday as the Dutchmen roasted the Turkeys of R PI, 100-45, to win their 14th consecutive meet as the '74 season opened. picking up thirds in the same events with 4:42.5 and 16:1:9. Soph, Milt Herring and RPI's Booker T. Jones split the wins in the sprints. Herring sped to a 10.1 \in in the 100 with Jones second Hl.2 and Alden Sherman third: 10.3. Later Jones came back to take the 220 trading positions with Herring who finished second. Co-captain Mark Mindel was the sole point getter for the Dutchmen in the 880 as he sped to a 2:02.9 half. THE NEW OEMOCRATIC COALITION An important meetin~· of the New Democratic Coalition wili t~ke place this Tuesday in Hale House· Lounge at 7:30 p.m. AU students are invited to be a . part of a new organization on campus. No. II Dennis Walker takes a pqint hlank shot at Harkwicks f(oalie Saturday in a f(ame eventua!lv won h.v Union 12-1/. No. /0 Bah Grossman is in background. photo credit Cliff langweiler !he Garnet jumping teams ~hone as the triple jump, high jump, and pole vault were swept. John DeStefano, having earlier taken the long jump with a 20' 4 '~~\ j.ump, came back to claim another first in the triple with 41' 8%''. Senior Brad Patterson grabbed second with 40' 7Y,\ and soph Mike Corte? rounded out the scoring with a 38' 414\ triple iump, rr-turning from an 18' 6W' third in the long jump. heshman Dave Plumer sailed over 6'4\ to win the high jump with his first jump. Cal Anderson and John DeStefano picked up second and third with 5' I 0\ and 5'8\ resp. R'PI's Tom Lowell doubled in the shot and the discus. The \eightman heaved the shot 50' 9 W', qualifying for the nationals, and flung the disc 141' 7\ for the wins. Junior BiH Mowery picked up two seconds with 49' '3/4\ in the shot put and 127'5\ in the discus. AI Gilewicz grabbed third with 40' I 31 4.'' Union Lax Nip Hartwick, 12-11 The pole vault crew took home all the marbles as co-captain Dave Ricks won the event with a 13' clearing followed by Bill Thompson and Bruce Bonanno, 12' 6\ and II' resp. Ricks later buzzed around the track to a 53.0 win in the 440 yard dash. Freshman Andy Rosenthal picked up third ·in the event with 54.1. Freshman Mark Sheuer doubled in the 120 high hurdles and the 440 intermediate hurdles to kick off his outdoor collegiate career with tim~s. 15.8 and 57 .3. Dave Ricks collected three more team points as he literalJy flew to a 60.8 second in the intermediates. Sophomore Steve Jones enjoyed his finest day of running as he copped two wins with personal record times, a 4:23.4 mile and a 15: 19 three mile. Stan Wiskoski had a fine day as well J· reshman Rich Norman and John Fraser copped second and third respectively in the javelin with 167' 10\ and 161' I\ as Engineer Laboo won the event with a 186' w· throw. Relays opened and closed the meet and Garnet spikers combined for wins in both the 440 and mile. Herring, Sherman, Broomes and MacDonald sped to a combined 45.5 440 relay win, RP I failing to finish the race after a broken hand off at the anchor spot. Sheuer, Broomes, Mindel and Ricks ended the days events as they joined forces to turn in the fastest mile relay time run by a I >utchman' crew on the home track with 3:30.4. · Saturday marks the second home meet of the outdoor season as Middlebury journeys to Schenectady to compete at Alexander Field. by FRANCESCO ISGRO Led by All-American Dennis Walker and Freshman John Thompson. the Union . College Lacrosse team, managed to nip Hartwick 12-1.1 Saturday afternoon .in front of a very enthusiastic crowd at Daley field. Last year, the Garnet had dropped a 7-12 to Hartwick. Baseball Drops First to Drew 6-5 For the first few minutes of the initial period, it looked as if the players were battling more against the mud than against each other. The first attempt to score came frpm no. 22 Bill Garofalo. With IJ:20 left on the clock Dennis Walker put the Garnet on the scoreboard with an assist from Robert Grossman. The Union team dominated the first ten minutes or'the game, with a series of attempts by Walker, Grossman and Don Ward. With about 4 minutes left, Hartwick evened the score at 1-l. Less than two minutes later, again on an assist from Grossman, Walker put the Ciamets ahead 2-1. Before the first quarter was over, Hartwick scored again to even the game at 2-2. During the second· quarter the Dutchmen slacked a little, and .at the end of the half they trailed. 5- 3. Goalie AI Ritchie was substituted by freshman Steve Haddard who made some significant saves later on in the ~arne. John Thompson, a freshman, added the lone Garnet goal on an assist by Don Ward. !'he quarter was spic-ed up by a couple of scuffles that seemed to entertain the spectators. Mike Ciarone was a little upset when the ref penalized him for a debatahle \hook.\ hut was calmed down by Coach Allison. by HAWK BERNSTEIN \Baseball is just unpredictable!\ concluded Art Lawrence, summing up this year's Union College baseball team. Law-rence, an athletic coach for over 30 years, was rather hesitant to make any precise forecasts concerning this year's squad. Much rests on whether or not the hits come. \We lost (last year to graduation) three really good ones in Bob Mitchell, Bob Bernhardt, and Ricky Arons. We need hitting. Our defense will perk up. Our pitching can be solid.\ Lawrence also noted that the weather did not pe-rmit the team to practice outdoors until just 2 days before last Friday's opener. This, of course, put the team a bit behind. The Coach's brief analysis was horne out last week as the U. Coli. nine dropped a tough 6-5 opening defeat at the hands of Dre.w University in New Jersey. The Garnet were ahead much of the game, hut errors in the late innings hurt. Also, 14 men were left stranded on base in the contest, emphasizing a lack of offense at key times. Joey Urschel pitched well, although taking the loss. The team overall should possibly improve on last year's fine season, where less than a handful of games were lost. The pitching corps appears set. Three- year man Joey Urschel is a solid performer with a 12-2 college career record and Steve Stockman is a hurler with potential. There is also Jon Gould, coming along rapidly, · who has been quite impressive, and two as yet unproven freshmen Southpaw Noah Paley and Charlie Flanagan.· High hope!) rest with these five. Handling the catching chores will be Skip Lega - a good catcher with a decent stick. Greg Breedlove, also an outfielder, is ready to go ·behind the plate if needed. The Garnet came right back in the second half and scored three times in a row. Robert Grossman Bill Carmody: ECAC All-Star .Junior guard Bill Carmody whose crisp passing and general floor leadership were keys to Union's 20-4 season, has been named to the 10-member ECAC (Eastern Collegiate Athletic Association) Division III All Star Hasketball team. The Spring Lake, N.J. native tallied a Union record 128 assists this season as the Dutchmen won 20 games for the first time in 75 seasons of basketball. In 24 games, he scored 249 points for a I 0.4 average that included a team high 85.4 accuracy percentage from the foul line on 41 conversions in 48 attempts.· A 5-11, 155 pounder, the St. Rose H.S. grad will be one of four starters returning next season for Coach Bill Scanlon. A history major, he is the son of Mrs. Marion Carmody of Ill Warren Ave., Spring Lake. ·led the attack with two assists, one going to Walker and one to .John Thompson. John scored the· first hat-trick .of the season with 7:08 left in the third quarter, on an assist from brother Jim Thompson. Then Grossman on a . ' smgle-handed effort, scm:ed his first to up the score to 7-6. Hartwick came back in the last five minutes to reverse the lead again and the Garnets found themselves trailing 8-7. At the end of this quarter, another altercation occurred and for a few seconds it looked as if serious fists were flying in the air. John Thompson opened the scoring in the last period on an assist from Dave Hochschartner. Then Robert Grossman added his second goal to place the Garnets once .again in the lead at 9-8. Charles Howe added his first goal on an assist from Jim Thompson. and with 6:42 left in the game 'Walker scored his third on an assist from Grossman foHowedt by an instant replay. This left the 1 Garnet on a safe lead at 12~8.t And s? it looked. But again the: Hartw1ck team pulled itself! together and scored three goals. within 4 minutes. An excellent· save by goalie Steve Haddard saved Union from a tie. T~e team travels Wednesday to W 1lhamstown to 'meet hQst Williams. lt will be a big test for the Garnet, who dropped a 7-14 decision last year on their home field. As for Saturday's game the Union Lax.men played 'well considering the. fact that it was the season's opener. There is some room left for improvement especially in correlating the. defense with the offense. Date April 20 24 25 THIS WEEK IN HOME SPORTS Sport Opponent Track JV LaCrosse V. LaCrosse Middiebury Siena · RPI Time ·12:30 pm 3:30pm .3:00pm The sport qf streakin!f, popular in the middle of a warm winter fer\! didn't !{O over too well at the start of our cold and snowy sprinK term. Shown here is a hard- core streaker after a painful wipeout. photo credit Vi Vol. OJ} tWO Cauc1 Marx indict nn a huma (ieoq claim tiona Cirav' class indict accor Prine ln respor agaim Prof. hehav hased which man's and r feels t to du worke Ac< class, leaflel class from Unem Orgar Prof. up a1 Prof. awhil tiona• dema to t (irav~ refusf the g1 seekir opini4 . Pre to the l t)

White Water Hide and Seek will be played in the Science Canoeing on the Brook that Bounds Sign up now! There I·S no expedient to which man will not resort to avoid the real labor of thinking. Sir Joshua Rernolds Center every night this week. Come and be found! 35 cents Thursday, April25 1 1~74 . Vol. 103, No. 18 Radicals ''Indict'' Ps ch Prof. by JUDY DEIN OJ} ·Friday morning, Aprill9.th, two members of the National Caucus of Labor Committees, a Marxist revolutionary group, indicted Professor Clare Graves nn a charge of crimes against humanity. Chris Lewis and Cieorge Pechenuk, both self.,pro- claimed professional revolu- tion aries, ill,terrupted Prof. Ciraves' \Theory of Personality\. class ( Psych 30) and read an indictment which claimed that, according to the Nuremberg Principle, every individual is ashtray against it to keep the door open. Students claim that Prof. Graves demanded that the intruders leave. but Mr. Lewis, one otthe revolutionaries, is 1111clear as to 'what happened at this point. All witnesses agree that Prof. Graves did forcibly push the two men out of the room, grabbing Mr. Pechenuk by the neck as he tried to re-enter the class room ami kicking him in the seat of his pants as he finally left. Graves Charged with Assault The two men then went to \ The Grounds For Indictment of Br_ainwashing, Complicity \- NCLc responsible to act on any crimes against ;humanity. They charge Prof. Graves with · teaching hehavior modification, a theory based on B. F. Skinner's work, which advocates the idea that man's behavior can be controlled and manipulated. The N.C.LC. feels that this theory is being used to dull the class-consciousness of workers .. Trouble in Class According to members of the class, the· two men distributed leaflets and newspapers before the class began, claiming they were from the North America Unemployed and Welfare. Rights Organization. They interrupted Prof. Graves' lecture by standing up and reading the indictment. Prof. Graves let them read on for awhile, joking with the revolu- tionari~s. Then, as the men kept demanding that he state his plea lo the charges against him, (iraves became agitated. He refused to debate with the men on the grounds that they were merely seeking an audience for their opinions. . Prof. Graves then walked over to the doof and moved a standing Schenectady Police Head- quarters and filed for a warrant l'or Prof. Graves' arrest on a charge of assault. The question arises as to whether the men had any right to be on campus, since, ·although not every building is posted as such, it is private property. Nothing is expected to come of the application for the warrant. · 3 Threats Received Meanwhile, over the weekend, Prof. Graves received three threatening phone calls. The N.C.L.C. claims that its members are not responsible for the calls, and labeled the phone calls \infantile.\ Mr. Kleinkauf, head of security on campus, has been serving as Prof. Graves personal hodygull:rd for the last few days. The N.C.LC. claims, however, that they have no intention of instigating violence on campus, they are here only to organize followers. Other Indictments Expected Charges have been leveled against Prof. Graves because he teaches \organizational theory,\ a graduate course, to G.E. executives. The N.C. L.C. feels that he is in league with Nelson Rockefeller and the CIA, as well as G E ·executives, to \take the right out of the workers\ and lead the way to a fascist takeover by Rockefeller. Prof. Griesinger and Millsap, also teachers of \Organizational Theory\ have been mentioned as possible targets for future indictments. Prof. Graves said, \the irony of the situation is that none of the three professors charged supports the theory of behavioral modification.'' \Now's the Time .for the Revolution\ The N.C.L.C. is an international organi7ation with 1.000-2.000 full-time members. Those in the Albany area .are in their 20's. They feel that due to the economic crisis the time for a revolution is rapidly approaching. Thev believe that Rockefeller and the CIA are plottin)! a militarv dictatorship. Thev compare America now to Germanv ri)!ht before Hitler·s rise to power. They claim that the CIA has also caused facist coups in European and South American countries. CIA PLOT According to the N.C.LC .. which uses a computer in N.Y. to help predict economic and political trends. a II the signs point to a fascist overthrow within· a year. Refore a militarv coup the followinl! conditions must exist: (1) workers must feel insecure in their iohs. This is done. accordin)! to the N.C.LC'.. by creating false shortages. such as the energv crisis. and hi,:!h unemplovment. 2) People must he totallv lern;>r~zed. an example of which is· the present situation in San Francisco. where due to the ••zehra Killer\ all black men of a certain age and build are searched and then )!iven a slip which attests to their having been searched. The N.C.I..C. feels that 24-Hour Drug Help Bryan Cook and Jim D'Errico at the other end of the hotline. -· photo by Leslie Steineker • ' I' ' l!nion College is establishing a 24-hour-a-day drug counseling <nid information bureau, open to all members of the College .:ommunity. Under tile .direction of Brian Cook and Jim D'Errico, the bureau will serve students by offering help and professional service to those Wfto seek aid. The hotline phone number is 370- l) 196. Cook and D'Errico need \ olunteers in keeping the hotline open and in working in the office 10 makt: this Worthwhile program a reality and a service for all students. Projects considered for the future are providing couttseling and information to incoming freshmen during Orientation. The hureau is not associated with the faculty or administration and is completely confidt:ntial. It is located in Room 214 of the Student Center. Professor Clare Graves -photo by Leslie Steineker not onlv is this creatin!! terror. hut the slips are a means of keepin~ tahs on people. The third precondition for a revolution is complete dissatisfaction with constitutional f!Overnment. The CIA has created this situation hv exposing Watergate. Peorle are terrori7ed and have no constitutional government to turn to. The people have also been manipulated hv behavior modification. C'onsequentlv. the N.C'.LC. feels that the time for a militarv takeover is now. unless the revolutionarv tendency 1s turned to socialist revolution. The N.C'.LC'. feels that American Communist and Socialist Parties have ignored the plil!ht of the workers. as have trade umons. The N.C. I.. C. wants to educate the workers as to what is happening to them. in Arsenic !he Union College Mountebanks are pleased to announce the upcomtng production of Arsenic and Old l.ace on Parents' Weekend, April 25-27. Directed by Union College ~cnior Bob Todaro, Arsenic and Old Lace is a humorous story of two little old ladies whose favorite pastime is murdering old men. l'hc ladies live in Brooklyn with their nephew who is convinced that he is President Theodore Roosevelt. They are paid a visit hy another nephew, Jonathan, \\ho is a convicted murderer \\anted in fifteen states of the Union. Mortimer. a third nephew and the only sane (me, has his hands full as he tries to deal with his relatives on the one hand and four inept Brooklyn police on the other. l'he .result is a zany, hysterical evening. Performances are Thursday through Saturday, April 25-27 at X:OO p.m. and Saturday, April 27 at 2:00 p.m. Reservations may be made by either phoning (370- 6153) or visiting the Nott Memorial Theatre Box Office Monday through Friday from I- 5:30. Admission is free to students, and · only $1.00 for others. - re)!ard to behavior modification . and the predicted fascist takeover. Their goal at Union is to _gain followers and inform students of the political implications of such theories as behavior modification. New Deal by CHRIS O'CONNOR The revised, revamped and reinvigorated Social Committee met Monday night to finalize plans for the Spring term. Chris Fink, newly appointed Chairman of the Committee, stressed that this term the Social Committee is working in coordination with the Coffee House and the I liter-Fraternity Council to provide a unified Social Calendar that is as free from conflicting events as possible. Some of the major events for the upcoming six weeks are: Chet Arthur and the Aces, Tom Paxton, co-sponsored by 3 R, Sound Co., a creation of several l inion students, Skye, a\ New York City based band which features personnel from the Van Morrison and James Cotton hands, Billy Cobham, who will be performing as part of the Black Students' Alliance Weekend, \1artin Mull, with Duke and the Drivers, a group from the Boston .m:a, and finally, an outdoor concert featuring Dryjack, with the Edward Fox Blues Band. The wmplete Social Calendar can be lound on page 5. RAPE Several incidents of personal aggression against Union coeds were reported last week. Director of Security John Kleinkauf wishes to bring the incidents to the attention of the campus, citing preventative measures as mutual cooperation in traveling after dark, and response to calls for he,p. In most of the incidents, many people were witness to or Within hearing range of the attacks,_but failed to respond. Security offers escort service for· all students crossing campus at night, and escort to those stud~nts who live off campus.

Page 2 CONCORD!ENSJS, Thursday, Apri/15, 1974 r-~~~-:-;-;-~-------------=------~~--~~======~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~--~~--~----------~--~-----been the mruor factor in ,.liltED ·I IV ~~d~Q~ ~ ·~~.~ ~ o.tnurnr~ ~~irnsts !2-lL~~ <tl\);{'TAI)\i· •• Editors-in-chief.. ......... ~ ..... · ..... Judy Dein, Bill Talis News Editor ........................ : ...... : .... :.Geoff Taylor Culture Editdr ........ : ...... :.: ......... .' .. ........ Pete Sobol Sports Editor ...................................... Bart Mercer Photo Editors .............................. leslie Steineker, Cliff Langweiler Copy Editor ........................................ Phil Alcahes Foreign Corespondent ................ Rob Mondschein Blithering Editor ........................... Chris O'Connor Business Editor ................................. Alan Gnessin National Advertisintz .......................... Steve Kelley Subscriptions Editor ...................... , ....... Lisa Tietz I.ayout ............................................ Linda Mackey Conrordiensis is published every Thursday by the student body of Union Colle)!e. Old Gym Hall. Schenectady. N.Y .. Publications Offi.ce. The Jewish World Puhlicat·ions. 771 State St .. Schenectady. N.Y. I 2307 (346-2356). Entered in the Schenectadv Post Office as Second Class Matter. Subscription Rate 35 cents per copy. $8:00 a year delivered anywhere in the United States. Deadline for copy is Tuesday5:00 P:M. ,.. Social Reform This has not been a record-breaking year for the Union Colle~Ze Social Committee. The ~roup has been the subject of much criticism .. much of which originated in this paper. While a tzood deal ·Of this criticism was deserved, it is a dantzerous habit to acquire an automatic negative response to all Social Committee productions. The Committee cannot function if the students don't trust it enough to buy tickets to its functioNs. To this end. we direct the reader to the Social Calendar found on page 5. This is the result of the work of many l!roups. including the Coffeehouse, the BSA, the IFC. 3 R Sound. and the Social Committee. The calendar presents six weekends of entertainment with surprisingly few conflicting events. • The time for bad-mouthin~ the Social Committee and the other l!roups trying to bring entertainment to Union is over. These ~Zroups simply cannot operate without the support of the students. Clip out the calendar for the spring term and stick it up on your little bulletin board. Then, when you look up from your books, you'll be able to .see what the hell is jloin~Z on around this place this weekend. cpo NCLC Wrong! The attack bv local members of the National Caucus -of Labor Committees Oti lhree Union professors and last Friday's confrontation in Professor Graves· class. make two very dangerous presuppositions about educational institutions. The first presumption implied in the !lctions of the NCLC members was to denv the inviolabilitv of the classroom. Based on tradition. it is the professor who exercises academic authority in his classroom durin!! his class. For any individual to attempt to silence him is not only disrespectful hut presumes superiority over the instructor. It is the professor alone who will exercise discretion over what is to be considered in class. and over wbo will have the floor to speak. and it is he alone who will continue to do so until stopped hv the school. · Obviouslv. the attempt that the NCLC was making in their accusations was to deny First Amendment freedom of speech to several facultv members. Bevond that. however. the NCLC mem hers acted to violate the educational integrity of the College. Anv Universitv (in the traditional sense Union is a university) is hound by a tacit obligation. hy an obligation. moreover, wbich has the force of custom. to present facts, theories. analyses, and opinions in the pursuit of describing and understanding phenomena. The expression of any ideas that may be germane to an issue is bound to he done. the ideologies comprising those ideas notwithstanding. The University. then. need not be apolitical but it must he non-polemieaL If the faculty members under attack were actually advocating the implementation of a controversial concept, and if in doing so they were callinl! for infrinj!ement on some persort~s rights. it would be up to the College to bring sanctions against them. In that these professors do not adopt a dectrinaire stance. the attempt by the NCLC' to silence their exposition represents a threat to the nature of the University as open forum. If any ideology is permitted to silence discussion of the ideas of another. then free interplay of thought cannot take place. The attempts made to dictate what should or should not be ,taul!ht in this college must be decried. Those people whose accusations and recriminations would serve to stifle free expression and to deny the integrity of the in!ltitution are to be censured in no uncertain terms. the editors Writes of Spring by PETE SO~L long. Once again it is time for people It is a rare opportunity when to ignore the fact that othet someone who you shared a frog people are asking each other to with or who you had occasion to sign petitions. This is my favorite avoid earlie·r in the year time of year, even though one is approaches with the stapled not supposed to say such things sheets of paper and the stub~ on the air. The reason that this nosed flair and says the magic titne of year is so wonderful is words \Sign my petiti?n (please).\ that it gives us a chance to use· Usually the asker wtll leave the our imaginations which have been askee to his devices whilst that bottled up inside the Florence worthy labors over _the document flask and the Syracuse dish for so Continued on page 7 You Said It! No Stucco Editors, Concordiensis: Considering the recent rise in campus incidence of knife- wieldeFs, attempted car theft, and attempted rape, I suggest improved campus li~hting. Such an expenditure wou·ld be a far wiser investment than to stucco two buildings on campus which are already perfecrly functional. Furthermore, I have long held that the attractive U nlon College .campus \sells itself\ to prospective students. I sincerely fear that its capacity to do so will be significantly diminished by reducing two co.lorful buildings to a drab exterior. there is little contrast to the campus now, in the dead of winter. Think how dreary it may become if the lively Social Sciences and Humanities Buildings become a dull gray. Dale :E. Reece '72 Weak-end Editors, Concordiensis: intent in staging \Parent's Weekend.\ David Moskowitz '77 Brian Loper '77 Editors, Concordiensis: Integrity in democratic institutions and e'lectoral processes is essential to self government. Somewhere along the road we lost sight of this. American po litic.s has . systematically ex.duded tens of millions from voting. Participation of the a:Iienated poor, minorities, :labor, women and voun.!! people is essential if government is to help solve problems. The system ·has excluded the very people it needs most. Political machines controlled by· a few bosses have dominated major segments of our parties. .The ideal of government of, by 'and for the people has been held in contempt by political power brokers. Our democracy has been most debased by money. A person's. wealth counts far more than his vote. The . big contributor bas decic;lingl· who runs and who wins. As a resu-lt, government favors the wealthy and the people's interest is not served. lam going·to run for the U.S. Senate. I will do so without ~omprom1smg principle. This means: I. A major effort to include all the people; 2. A campaign free of· political mac~ines;. 3. A forthright position on the issues; 4. No big money. A solid staff is 'being assembled. An office has opened. Several hundred volunteers have come forward already. We have begun. 1'he critical need is the money to get rolling. I will seek broa<J..public participation; tens ·0f thousands of small crmtri- butions averaging $10. No person will be allowed to give more than $ 1<00 in the primary campaign. The same limit will apply anew for the genera·l election. Sorru( say .such a campaign is not possible. If not, then democracy is not possible. I refuse to accept this. I believe we are stronger and bet;ter than this conventional wisdom suggests. I am going to try. There is only one Way such a campaign can succeed. It is the only way any democratic campaign should succeed, If thousan,ds of people care .enough to work and contribute, it can be done. With the appro<Jch of the annual festivities known as \Parents' Weekend\ a few major deficiencies in planrting appear. The Delphic Society, in .charge of the organization of this event, seems to have put little money or thought into any specific activity. The activities planned, which include tennis and lacrosse matches, a movie, a play, and a speech by President Martin,. are the type of activities that occur almost regularly at Union. In caiHng these activities a .. Parents' Weekend,\ Union falls far short of most colleges where the activities often include buffet Iun<:hes and more. Maybe no funds exist for this type of activity, but it seems that parents deserve more than they are getting, or at least more than an expensive guided tour. Sincerely, Rarnsey Clark Caucus Continues At this point, another major deficiency in \Parents' Weekend\ appears. In many cases after paying a $4200 c()llege bill, parents are asked to f0rk over an additional, mvste11ious $1 \registration fee\ and 2re asked to pay higher rates for both the movie and the play. What is· the purpose of this \registration fee\ - explained as an aid in defraying the cost of the weekend? It seems as if the College has had to put little or no funds into the planning of the weekend. At least the College should ask for nothin~ when it is providing nothing. Perhaps a little col1Sideration should be given to the poor, empty-walleted UColl parent who will no doubt lea-ve Union wonderin,g about the College's The Women's Caucus is still alive and kicking. The Caucus ,neets every Monday night at 9:00 p.m. in Strauss Lounge and all interested people are invited to come. The Caucus is a loose-knit group which coordinates a number of diverse activities. In March the Caucus sent letters to women in the Class of '78, and invited them to visit, stay overnight, sit in on classes, and talk to people .. There has been a tremendous response: so far more than 25 women have visited and more are expected to come this spring. The women have expressed their appreciation and enthusiasm for the program which has allowed them to get a genuine sense of the atmosphere at Union. Anne Pomaranc is coordinating these v.isits, which will only be held during the Week. Anyone who wants to be a hostess should contact Anne throu_gh Student Activities. Day Care Coop The Day Care Collective, a group of faculty, faculty wives, students and student wives, has been working for several months to establish a child-care facility on campus. This Saturday they will hold a fund-raising sale from lO a.m. to 4 p.m. and im auction at 1 p.m. The Caucus is co-sponsoring · a booth to sell helium-filled balloons. Notice: many of the Patrol of pilfering poltroons prevented from pocketing players' publicity pillar. Arsenic and Old Lace- an event ju1tured parents' weekend; > .! . · · Photo by·Clitf LangweiJ~r • v ... _. ~ ,; , .. lt ,. t ...... ., ,. --~v ., \ fi • v if ~ L., ' ,. \ t )I ., .~:. .<1 ., ) ., ~· , , 1 ''' 6 t. ,.. J. -i auctioned ·items are absolutely unobtainable anywhere else. The day's activities will be held at the Mcllwaine Court, between Bailey and Butterfield Halls. Bicycle Day Planned Nancy Hinckley, Instructor in Physical Education, and the Caucus are jointly planning a Bike Day. Hopefully a Bike Clinic for anyone who wants to iearn how to repair bicycles will be formed. Any handy student who wants to teach others is asked to contact Dr. Hinckley at the Gym or Debbie Williams through the Caucus. Women's Center Plan('! are in gear to have a marathon clean-up of Carnegie Room 20 I and to convert it into a Women's Center. The Caucus hopes to build up a library of literature by and about women, sex-roles, and feminism, and anyone with old furniture, rugs, and/ or literature or research papers is asked to.contribute. The Caucus' budget is small and any donations would be appreciated. Consciousne$s·Raising This term two consciousness- raising groups are meeting. CR groqps have about 10 members, including women of diverse backgrounds and ages (students, faculty, communi~y peo!'le). Each group meets for several hours per week to discuss such themes as Feminity, Education, and the Women's :Movement. A supportive atmosphere is fostered in which each persqn can express her opinion with no judgemental 'Criticisms permitted. Anyone interested in joining such a group should leave a note in the Caucus mailbox in the Student Activities Office. If enough people are interested, another group could be· started· this .spring. Legal Aid Some students are working with the Family and Women's Advocacy Program, a group which provides assistance for people with legal-related problems. The FW AP and the Schenectady NOW chapter are in the process of establishing a Rape Crisis Center for the Schenectady area. Their efforts bave sparked the formation of a group a:t Union which will examine security problems for women on campus: how frequently women are attacked on campus, what preventive measures are now taken by the College, and how these . measures could be improved .. p st n' f~ ir C1 aJ p Cl e: aJ tl t} a! s th wl th ot pc nl pe ca WI w 7~ re th f)(

CONCORDlENSTS, Thursda.v. Apri/25, 1974 Page3 . Analysis lhe first resu)ts of the Coneordy survey of student life appear in this issue. Special thanks are due to AI Lemmo who ran the survey, to Frank Messa. '73 who originated it, and to Esther Miller who keypunched all 43\5 returns. 'Thanks are aJso due to the students, faculty and staff who assisted in its preparation and especially to those who did such an outstandin_g j.ob of distributing and collectin~ it. SURVEY OUEST IONNAlRE The survey text will be found on page 3. . Most of the questions are the same as those ·of last year. New questions included numbers ·18, 19, 27, 31, 32. 51. 52 and 53. Sever;tl. ~uch as 1 'Rate President Martin's job performance\ were deleted. others were changed in for.mat. Notable or common remarks about specific questi9ns this year are as follows. 5 - A n·umber of students felt that the choices were too li~ited. !}, 11 ..... Many students objected to the conditions attached and noted that their answers were for other reasons. These questions shoU'ld be invalidated. 21 - Some students objected strenuously to this question because it does not provide any way for the student to express opposition to the existence of the tenure limit in the first plae>e .. More specific comments about the individual questio.ns will be provided in articles concerned with them. The survey itself was generally well-received but there were a few strongly negative reactions to it. Relatively few students suggested new. questions about racism, sexism, priorities, adequacy of facilities. Comp. Ed .. why the student chose Uni()n and fraternity- independent interaction. Other sug,gestions were for questions on cum . time. spent at Union by transfers and .effects of commuting .. and 'holding a job on student life~ These were generally meant for · purpose of comparison. similar to questions 1~8. Questions about cum and other sensitive matters (i.e. drug abuse) were deliberately excluded in order to increase the response tate. Although anonymitv was promised. it should have been obvious to anyane that it could not be guaranteed with the distribution and collection that was used. Nevertheless, we believe that to the best of our ability the promise was kept' . The questions have already been reviewed by Dean Smith. who found the comments .. fascinating\ and worthy for further consideration bv administrators. We would like to make the keypunched data available to the ~eneral student body. However, fear has been expressed that this would tax available camputer time and there would not be en·ou,!th assistance fot those who would 1ike to learn the necessary pro~ramming skills. AU those who would be interested in using the survey data if it was made available should notify Al Lemmo. Union College. Box 16. Sample Composition Survey Response Compared By sex: Men to College Totals College 1299 (69,8%) Santple 358 (72.0%) ' The following tables show how Response 317 (73.4%) Women 562 (30.2%) 139 (28.0%) 11? (26.6%) - L What is vour class vear? ]).Freshman 2)Sophomore 3)Junior 4lSenior s·)Fifth year - 2. What is your sex? I )Male 2)Female ..... 3. What is vour race? I )Black 2)White 3)0riental 4)0ther · - 4. What,, is vour home state. territory, or nation? (please fill in · - 5. Which description best characterizes your home town? !)Metropolitan area (pop. over J.OO.OOO) 2)Suburb 3)Rural - 6, Which best characterizes your rooming arrangements? l)lndependent living in dormitory 2)lndependent livin~. in fraternity 3)Independent living off-campus 4)Fraternity member living in dormitory 'S)Fraternity member living in fraternity house 6)Fraternity member .Jiving off-campus - 7. What is your religious affiliation? l)Catholic 2)Protestant 3)Jewish 4)0ther 51 None - 8. Please fill in your major----- Please answer the following questions according to this format (9\21) · !)Disagree strongly 2)Disagree somewhat 3)Neutral 4)A!!ree somewhat 5)A!!ree stl'onp:ly 6)Inappropriate or don't know enough about the quest.ion _ 9. There should be a limit on the number of independent studies a department may offer each term because it indirectly increases tuition through greater demands placed on faculty members. -· lO. There should he a limit on the number of independent studies that one student may take m one year. _ II. There should be a limit on the number of courses a student mav take in one vear because early graduation resuits in a tuition ·loss for the college. - 12. There should he a limit on the number of pass-fail COl.Jrses a student may take in one year. _ 13. In general. the administration is responsive to student needs and demands. _ 14. With few exceptions. the Uni.on College faculty are good classroom instructors. - 15. Most Union College students are too concerned with their grades. - 16. Mv social life at Union has been hampered by the followin~ (answer a • f as separate questions the random sample of students who received questionnaires and B:y class: the _actual response that was ~olle1e obtaine~ comp~re? to the College R~~:O:se '77 '7ti '75 accordip~ to above f~rmat) 515 (27 .7) 479 (25.7) 426 (22.9.) - a. Poor choice of available social activities 139 (28.0) 128 (25.8) 107 (21.5) _ b. Academic pressures populatwn for Wmter term. The 129 (29.6) 114 (26.4) 86 (19.9) _ c. Male-female ratio numbers in parentheses .represent They are not included m percentages of the total across calcul<J.ting the percentages. each row. For ex:ample, 1299 men For further breakdown of how were 69.8% of the student body the survey compares to the actual whil~- 317 men accou?ted .. for school population, contaGt AI 73.4/(l of the questlonnaires Lemmo. Students were coded by returned. The t~tals ~ 0 not ad? to ' academic division- according to :_he 435 questionnaires rd~cetved the guidelines used by the \ecause a few students Id not Election Committee for voting for answer the necessary questions. All-College Senate seats. ANNEX· STEAK HOUSE Corner of Eastern Ave. & McClellan OPEN DAlLY . I I :30 to 12 Midnig~ 372-9740 STEAK SPECIAL CHOICE SIRLOIN STEAK French Fries, Tossed Salad $4.35 Roast Chicken Special The overall response rate for the survey was 87.5%. This includes a 94:6% response for questionnaires distributed through campus living ·units (a breakdown by living units is :lVaila ble if anyone is interested) and· 67.8% response for questionnaires distributed by professors to students in their classes. Professors whose classes met more often had more success in collecting the questionnaires. Some professors hesitated to <tss.ist in the distribution but all wh,o were approached eventually agFeed to help. A few professors expressed concern about handling <t q.uestionnaire that asked sensitive questions. The fact that soiJl.e _questionnaires were \d'iS'ttlbuted· by students and some hy faculty may have influenced results. Several professors were awa.re of this and some took steps of their own to reduce any effect hy having their . students return Continued on Page 5 _ d. Not enough activities _ e. The attitudes of the opposite sex _f. My own attitudes Please fill in anv other factors you feel to be sip:nificant in this regard. _ 17. I am satisfied with my social life at Union. --. 18. The Admissions Office should (answer a - c as separate questions according to above format) _ a. Place greater emphasis on academic achievement _ b. Place p:reater emphasis on extra-curricular activities _ c. Seek to diversifv the student body by geographic region · Other (please fill in)----- - 19. The extended vacation to conserve fuel was justified. _ 20. The cumulative index inflation during the past few vears has been due to (answer a - f as separate questions) _ a. I ncreasin~ quality of students - b. Lower standards of academic achievement - c. Faculty bowing to student pressure to change grades _ d. Increased competition for admission to graduate and professional schools - 3. Faculty fears of Student reactions to poor grade distributions published in Linebacker (Course Evaluation) _f. Coeducation Pleas!,! specify any other factors------ 21. The function of a tenure limit at Union is (answer a· d) _ a. To provide greater diversity of subject matter within the various departments -b. To insure a flow of \new blood\ into the college faculty - c. To keep instructional costs down _d. Yo prov.ide a flexibility of faculty which would he responsive to changin~ student interests Specify any other functions------ _._ 22. Who is your favorite professor at Union? _ 23. Who is the best professor in your major department? (choose only one even if interdepartmental or undecided).--- - 24. Which grading system do you favor? I)Add +s and -s to present svstem 2)Strail!ht pass-fail 3)pass-fail-honors 4)No e~ades at all 5) Present svstem 6)0ther (soecifv at ril!ht and enter 6 in manrin) __ _ _ 25. Rank the following calendar schemes in order of preference I )Start and end school year earlier with winter term split by Christmas vacation after J weeks 2)Present calendar 3)Statt fall term earlier to end at Thanksp:iving - winter and spring terms 11nchanged 4)0ther (specify) (If you do not offer an alternative~ enter zero in last space providedin margin) _ 26. What are the three biggest problems at Union? (please rank) l 2) 3) _ 27. Have you ever had any of your personal propenty stolen from the campus? I) Yes (If yes, indicate approximate total value$-.......) 2)No _ 28. Approximately how many hours per week do you spend on schoolwork (including classes)?- _ 29. If vou had the choice to make again. would vou select Union? !)Yes 2)No _ 30. Housing assignments should be determined bv l)Lotterv bv class (senioritv svstem) with first picks pven ·to ·displaced persons 2)Straight lottery by class 3)Completely open lottery 4)0ther (specify) _ 31. What is the probahility of your going on to trraduate or professional school? ])Almost certain 2)Greater than 50·50 3)Less than 50-50 4)Very slight _ 32. The most important part of the Course Evaluation is !)The instructor rating 2)The course ratin~ 3)The amount of work required 4)The grades given out S)Other (specify)--- Format for questions 33-47. On the avera~e. how many times per term do you attend or make use of each of the following? ])Never 2)0nce or twice 3)Several times but less than o.nce a week 4)About once a week 5)More than once a week· _ 33. The fieldhouse (not including inter-collegiate sportin:g events) _ 34. The gym (not includinp: inter-collegiate sportin:g events) _ 35. The C'olle~e Center (Carnegie Hall) _ 36. The library _ 37. Fraternitv parties _ 38. Mountebanks productions _ 39: The computer facilities _ 40. 'The time-sharing terminals ,_ 4 I. Concordiensis _ 42 .. Presentations by Union faculty, visiting scholars. political figures,. etc. _ 43. Off-campus cultural events and entertainment _ 44. On-campus movies _ 45. Social Committee sponsored concerts _ 46. Social Committee sponsored dances _ 47. lnter·collegiate sporting events Questions 48-51. Rate the following on a scale of I (worst) to 5 (best) _ 48. The maintenance of the building in which you live _ 49. Your knowledge of the Union College Governance System _ 50. Concordiensis as a newspaper _51. Your concern for improving Union College (I. least - 5. most) _ 52. Without asking anvone. who is the student representative from your Divi!lion to the All-College Senate'?_ _ 53. How involved are you in campus and communitv activities outside of academic pursuits? l)N ot involved 2)0ne or two activities 3)Several activities 4 )Ouite a few activities Please use the back of this sheet to make any comments about this questionnaire including sugp:estions for chan~es and new questions you would like to see on future editions. Thank vou very inuch for your time and ·consideration. Chicken French F\ie~- Tossed Salad HUNGER HAS NO TIME LIMIT. $3.40 Boned Prime Ribs of Beef- Au Jus Potatoes-Salad-Vegetable $5.25 <:;omplete Menu Of Steaks. Chops & Sea. Food-. • A Degree Program Qualifying Graduates For Calif. Bar Exam • 5 Min. From Downtown Los Angeles In A Suburban Co11:1munity • Enrollment Now Being A~cepted f.nr September term • Inquiries Are Invited By The Dean Of Admissions: GLENDALE COllEG~ OF l~W 22QJ•o.'~LENOAU· AV!Ii · .. 1 · ·• . . GL,NDA1E, CA. 91206 . I, \ 'I . ~ • f . • .... ' . ~ . (213) 247-0770 . ----- ---·-. ----- ~ ---- -- - --~-------- -- .. ENJOY YOUR MIDNIGHT SNACK AT . THE. VAN DYKE Mon.· Thurs. Fri.- Sat. Sun. 374·<2'4()6:: •• -:, ... ,. 11 a.rn. - Midnight 11 a.m. -1 a.m. 11 a.m. - Midnight 237 U iii on St.,· Schenectady

Pag~ 4 . CONCORDlENSJS, Thursday, April25, ~974 The Union College Coverup: ~-~-~~ by GERARD QUINN C'(lvered with as much paint as a fading actress, and with a smile strangely similar to the last Democratic president.ial candidate's, the great Union College Idol is one of the most important and beloved artifacts of our noble institution. Yet few students are aware of the bizarre history of this noted relic. In 1860 coolies were constructing earthworks .in order to protect Shanghai from the \long-haired rebels\ under the leadership of Hung-Sew-lseuen when they found the hideous stone figure. The ofCicer in charge gave the statue to Rev. Dr. J. M. W. Farnham, Union class of 1856, who placed it in front of a hoys' school he had just constructed in Shanghai. This alumnus, who was to work diligent-ly as a missionary in China for 60 years, decided that the creature might be valued at \Old Union,\ After paying $20 to a local family who claimed the relic Farnham sent it to New York on a tea clipper which needed ballast. Union paid three hundred dollars to ship the Idol to Schenectady, and it was stored in a barn until 1876, when it was set up on a placement constructed for it in back of President Eliphalet Nott Potter's house. The distinguished Dr. Farnham was scheduled to give the commencement address at Union that year, as he was in the United States tern p o rarily serving as China's Commissioner to the U.S. Centennial Celebration. New Customs The Eliphalet Nott Memorial was then in the- final phases of construction, and quantities of olack and white paint were Tradition and the Lion of Stone <wailable. Three sophomores and a junior decided to cloak the st(i)ne lion and cub with the paint as a sort o.f welcoming l:elebration. President Potter was not· amused, and though the \ andals were never caught, Dr. f-arnham never gave his speech, and the memorial was never completed nor dedicated as originally intended. thing which induced the administration to relegate it to \back-ya-rd\ status, but the Idol is neither an evil spirit nor a eruel Chinese Goddess. From all ~vidence, the ldol dates from at least the 15th century, when it \\as. probably used as a good luck ornament ~in front of a government building or the tomb of an Emperor or high government officiaL Around this time the \class ~craps\ between freshmen and ~ophomores came to center <!round t,he ld0l. A number of ~ophomores would capture a treshman, then force him to buy a hucket of bright green paint and tl) cover the figure with it. The freshmen often retaliated for this indignity by seizing a sophomore and making him pai.nt it red. The process continued until a prearranged date, when the statue \\a~ examined and the prevailing wlor determined. After it was agreed which class had been \ ictorious, both cooperated in painting the statue white. Paint Removal Tried lh e se continual paint fights did little for the statue's appearance. After an inch or so of paint had accumu_lated, attempts were made to remove the paint. Covering the Idol with oil and setting it afire was spectacular but unsuccessful, and removing coats of paint has been a problem until today. The original sight of :the Idol \\as rather isolated and u nd is t ingu ished, and Rev. Farnham was very disappointed with the arrangement. In 1883 it was transferred to the rear of the Washburn building. It remained there until 1914 when it was moved to the space behind the Gymnasium (termed \less in fern a!\ by Professor Bennett). It was the grotesqueness of the Idol Harmed Preserving ·our 500+ year-old lit~n from harm has long been a _troublesome problem. In 1921 it \\as beaten with an iron bar and ,Jhe cub was broken off: The ·missing fragment has never been ·located, although attempts at restoration have been made. In 194 I the Idol: was pulled down, apparently by RP I Engineering lackeys, and it was seriously damaged. After' .it was again repaired the class of '94 attempted w have the idol moved indoors tor greater protection. After a ~trenuous debate this move was \ oted down, and the :Idol has remained just about \\here it is today. Now, however, the construction of the Library Fxtens·ion and plans to landscape the area may force another move of the Idol. Student Opinion Revealed by COPERNICUS r~nk their knowledge of the, ~:~~:c~n Reps. Answered' ;Did Not The Concordiensis Survey of C oUege governance system on a I 'Div Name Incorrectly Know Student Life at Union was (little knowledge) to 5 · 1 00.06% 17.5% 82.5% administered to 500 Union , (knowledgeable) scale, the 11 1'2 .. 0% U~O% 69.9% students at the end of the winter overwhelming majority of IH .11t.7% 14.8% 74.6% term under the supervision of A1 students fell within the I and 2 IV 23.3% 6.8% 69.9% - Lemmo. The results of the poll categories, and very few fell into !'he results clearly point to the will be reported tl,lroughout the 4 and 5 categories. In tact that students state they have spring term. Ucoll students' combining categories I and 2, and little knowledge of their knowledge of their governing 4 and 5. the results appeared as governance system. This .seems to system and their preference on the follows: he substantiated by their Jack of form of school calendar are given Cate- 2 1 & 4& cognizance of who represents here gories: 3 5 · Fr 78.1% 18.7% 3 . 3 % them. One analyst of the data The bulk of the students prefer So 69.7% 20.5% 9.8% made a striking parallel between the present school calendar over Jr 67.5% 15.7% 16.8% these reults and the situation of that of the alternative split winter Sr 68.8% · 20.4% 10.8% the poor in our country. Those term or that of the long fall term J\sked the open-ended question: \\ho receive few benefits from the proposal; in which students return W. h k' . <>overnt'ng system a·.nd ·have lt'ttle '' tt out as mg anyone, who ts e- to school earlier, and end fall iast_ing ,·nfluence· on the dect'st'ons the student representative from term at Thanksgiving. D' . . h made by the body do not have ~our tVJston to t e All•College Sophomores, juniors, and Senate?\ almost a·ll students any care or knowledge about the ~eniors all preferred the present d h h d' k s_vstem. The more ac.t.t\v· e me·mbers answere . t at t ey 1d not now. school calendar overwhelmimJv )f h Df soc 1 'ety have .a greater · · ( t ose who gave an answer not (47.3%. 48.8%. 40%. respectively) d 1 tmders·tandt\ng of the system. Tht's· many answere correct y. thou~h freshmen .preferred the Absolutely not one person from 110lds as well for studen,ts. Of the split-winter calendar to the Division 1· knew who their least active students on campus, present calendar (38.2% for split- representative to the Senate I according to their responses to a winter, 28.5% for the present· 1 Howard Mastroianni) is. Only question on activity) RO.R% stated calendar, and 18.7% for the long 12r:; of Division ll students knew they had little knoWledge of the fall calendar). that Marty Berman is their !!Overnance system while only 2% Further evidence of student · S · k · ~tated they· were kn·owledgeable representative; usari H1c ts preference for the present school known by I0. 7 % .of Division 111 a hout the system. Only 54:59(. of calendar appears when the second students. Peter Tavino had the the most active students stated choice of each of the three groups highest rec:ognition of any of the they had little knowledge of the is examined. The vast majority of representatives, with 23 _ 3 % of ~ystem and 22:6% stated that they students who preferred the split Division IV students correctly \\ere knowledgeable of the winter term as thelr first choice lillin_g in his name. g:overning system. chose the present calendar as their second choice, (69.9% of a.II students expressed this view); there are no large fluxes as one examined the individual classes, Of those who expressed a first choice for the early fall return calendar, 75.6% preferred the present system as their second choice. Only sophomores who had the early return schedule as their first choice preferred the split winter as their second choice. The most revealing fact is that those who chose the present The Bootery . \A QUIET BAR ... A PLACE TO TALK\· ·calendar as their first ,choice, the bulk of the students, did not choose the split-winter calendar as their second choice but preferred the early fail return calendar. This holds true for a majority of the students in all classes. These facts indicate UcoH prefers the present school .. . - THE Red Fox Inn PIZZA. FRIDAY & SATURDAY s·-u P.M. BUD BY THE PITCHER 123 JAY ST·.- SCHENECTADY . . ..... ·:;:;:; ....... calendar. STUDENT GOVERNMEN.T UNKNOWN l . When students were asked to 147 JAY ST. HAND SEWN STEERHIDE MOCCASINS $31.95- WOMEN's $27.95 - $3 ·o· 9. 5 WITH . ·· . 11 · COUPON $ 26.95to~?;~N .; M\t I I'll Ire Jol M~ m~ tur uo lift Ill!<! lift .!lei .... ,,. Cl- 11 .. ·' I' .. .... n is a cam1 fmct calle The .orga for rend Tl Col! men a se to be cur app Hell Ada Ass Go! Gre Dirl T witl Ho Pat Rid Mo the: ski as pia l Na sin tra tel se~ sp1 Fi1 thl Sc co ho

Page 4 CONCORDIENS!S, Thursdar, Apri125, !974 The Union College Coverup: ----------------~------------------~------ by GERARD Q lJINN Covered with as mllch paint as a lading actress. and vvith a smile ~!rangely similar to the last Democratic pre~idential candidate's, the great Union College Idol is one of the most important and beloved artifacts of our noble institutioii. Yet few ~tudents are aware of the bizarre history of this noted relic. In 11!60 coolies were constructing earth worl<s im order to protect Shanghai frotn the .. long-haired rebels\ llllder the leadership of H ung-Sew-Tseuen \\hen they found the hideous ~tone figure. The officer in charge !,!<1\e the statue to Rev. l)r. J. M. \\'. Farnham, Union class of I H56, who placed it il'l fr<>nt of a hoys' school he had just constructed in Shan,ghai. This alumm.us, who v.as to work diligently as a mis:;ionary in ( 'hina for 60 years, d-ecided that 1 he creature might he \alued at .. Old UnioA.\ After paying $20 to a local lamily who claimed !he relic J·arnham sent it to New York on a tea clipper which needed ballast. l :nion paid three hund reel dollars to ship the Idol to Schenectady, and it was stored in a barn until I X76, when it was set l! p on a placement constructed for it in hack of President Elipthalet Nott Potter's house. The disti11:guished I )r. Farnham was scheduled to give the commencement address at Union that year, as he was in the United States t~mporarily ~erving as China's Commissioner t o t h e U . S . Cent en n i a I Celebration. New Custo111s I he Eliphalet Nott Memorial \\as then in the· final pLtases of construction, and quantities of olack and white paint were Tradition and the Lion of Stone available. Thlree sophomores ami a junior decided to cloak the :-tone lion and cub with the paint as a sort of wei coming celebration. President Potter was not amused, and though the vandals were never caught. Dr. l·arnham never gave his speech, and the memorial was never completed nor dedicated as originally intended. thing which induced the administration to relegate it to ''hack-yard\ status, but the Idol is l·leither an evil spi,rit nor a cruel ( 'hinese Goddess. Fro:m all evidence, the ld0l dates from at least the 15th century, when it 11,a:s probably used as a good hick orl'lament in front of a ,l!O\erlilmcnt building or the tomb o f a n F mp e r o r or h ig h !! me rn men t of fie ia 1. \round thi~ time the '\class -..crap~\ between freslun~.:n and ~ophomore> came to center <tn>und the Idol. A number of ..,nphomon:s would capture a I reshman. then force him to buy a huckct of bright grem paint and to 1:over the figure IIlith it. The lrcshmcn often retaliated for this indignity by ;;eizing a sophomore and making him paint it red. The process continued until a prcarra nged date, 11. hen tl1e !>tatue \\as examined and the prevailing uJlor determined. After it was .tgreed v. hich dass had been \ ictorious, both cooperated 1 n painting the statue wllite. Paint Removal Tried I hcsc cnntinual paint fights did little for the- statue's appearance. After an il'lch or so of raint had :tCClln:JU_latecf. attempts \\ere made to remove the paint. (·overing the Idol with oil and 'etting it afire was spectacular but unsuccessful, and removing coats t>f paint has been a problem until today. I he original sight of the Idol 1\a~ rather isolated and undistinguished, and Rev. l·arnham was very disappointed \\ith the arrangement. fn 1883 it \\as transferred to the rear of the Washburn building. It remained there until 1914 when it was moved to the space behind the <iymnasium (termed \less infernal\ by Professor Bennett). It was the grotesqueness of the :0:' ' ... : .. idol Harmed l're,en ing our 500+ year-old lion from harm has long been a trol!lhlcsomc problem. In 1921 it ·11m beaten with an iron bar and the cuh was broken off. The m i,,ing fragment ha:-. never been located. although attempts at testoration have been made. In 1941 the Idol was pulled down, .~pparcntly by RPI Engineering lackeys. and it was seriously da1naged. After it was again Icpaircd the class of'94 attempted to have the idol moved indoors I1H greater protection. After a 'I rcn uous debate this move was 1 otcd down. and the Idol has lt:maincd just about \lhere it is today. :\ow, however. the l'O nst ruction of the Library I xtcmion and plans to landscape the area may force another move of the Idol. Student Opinion Revealed by COPERNICUS rank their knowledge of the ~~~~~:tnReps. Answered Did Not The Concordiensis Survey of College governance system on a I Div Name Incorrectly Know Student Life at Union was (little knowledge) to 5 00.00% 17.5% s2.5% administered to 500 Union (knowledgeable) scale, the 11 12.0% 18.0% 69.9% ~tudents at the end of the winter overwhelming majority of III 10.7% 14.8% 74.6% term under the supervision of AI ~tudents fell within the I and 2 IV 23.3% 6.8% 69.9% l.emmo. The results of the poll categories, and very few fell into I he results clearly point to the \1ill be reported throughout the 4 and 5 categories. In tact that students state they have spring term. Ucoll students' combining categories I and 2, and little knowledge of their knowledge of their governing 4 and 5, the results appeared as governance system. This seems to system and their preference on the follows: he substantiated by their lack of form of school calendar are given cogni;ance of who represents here. them. One analyst of the data Cate- 1& 4& gories: 2 3 5 I\he bulk of the students prefer made a striking parallel between the Present school calendar over t hcse rcults and the situation of Fr 78.1%: 18.7% 3.3% So 69.7% 20.5% 9.8% that of the alternative split winter the poor in our country. Those termor that of the long fall term k d h d · \\ho receive ~ew beneft'ts from the Jr 67.5% 15.7% 16.8% Sr 68.8% 20.4% 10.8% .'\s e t e open-en ed questiOn: proposal. in which students return w· 1 k' · .eovcrning sy·stem and have li.ttle \ tt 1out as mg anyone, who IS - to school earlier, and end fall 1 d · f lasting influence on the dect.si'ons t 1e stu ent representative rom - term at Thanksgiving. [) · · h A 1 C 11 made b_v the bod.v do not have ~our !VISIOn to t e I \ o ege Sophomores, juniors, and Senate'!\ almost all students any care or knowledge about the seniors all preferred the present d h d. k -.._v~tem. The more active men1bers :tnswere . that t ey 1d not now. school calendar overwhelminuh· - h h of societv_· have a greater <)I t ose w o gave an answer not C47.JC;(, 48.8C:(, 40C:i. respectively) many answered correctly. understanding of the system. This though freshmen preferred the \t.. 1 1 f holds as well for studen.ts. Of the t uso ute y not one person rom · split-winter calendar to the Division I knew who their least active students on campus, present calendar (38.2C:i for split- representative to the Senate (according to their responses to a v\inter, 2s.5r; for the present 1 1 d M · · · 0 1 lJUestion on acti'vity) Ro_gro:, stated ( 1owar astr01anm) IS. n y calendar, and 18.7l,:; for the long , 21 , of Di>ision II students knew they had little knowledge of the Iilli calendar). 1 M 1 1 h · _un\crnance s•_·stem wht\Je· oi1l.·· 2f 1 ' t 1at arty ~erman IS t etr - ' ' J· urther evidence of student · k -..t·,tt•·d they W\re knc)\'ledgeable representative; Susan H IC is ~ \' \ preference for the present school , ,_ f 71 1 - I · · · Ill ahout the ~_vstem. 0111)· 54 .. 51 1 \ of \nown uy 0. i 0 }IVISIOn calendar appears when the second til•' n1c1~. t .·tcti·,.e s·tudent.< stated -..tudenb. 1\:ter Ta\ ino had the ~ • ·' choice of each of the three groups highest recognition of any of the they had little knov.lcdge of the is examined. The vast majority of · · h 2 , o 1 f -..\.~tern and 22.61·· 1 stated th,·tt the\· n:presentattves. Wit .1 .• 1 ; o ~tudcn ts who preferred the split l>i\ ision 1 y students correctly \\ere knowledgeable of th~ v.in tcr term as their first choice 11 . 1 · ~·o>··rni·ng s:,·s·t\m. chose the present calendar as their ~ccond choice, (69.9C:; of all students expressed this view); there are no large fluxes as one examined the individual classes. or thme who expressed a first choice for the early fall return L·alendar, 75.6r;; preferred the present system as their second choice. Only sophomores who had the early return schedule as their first choice preferred the :;plit winter as their second choice. The most revealing fact is that those who chose the present II m.!l 111 11:- name. =- ~ \' The Bootery \A QUIET 8AR. .. A PLACE TO TALK\ ·calendar as their first choice, the bulk of the students, did not choose the split-winter calendar as their second choice but preferred the early fall return calendar. This holds true for a majority of the students in all classes. These facts indicate Uc(,IJ prefers the present sehoul calendar. THE Red Fox Inn PIZZA S TllDENT GOVERNMEN.T l'NKNOWN \\'hen :-tudcnt~ v.cn.: 'a~k~..:d to 147 JAY ST. 147 JAY ST. HAND SEWN STEERHIDE MOCCASINS MEN'S $31.95- WOMEN's $27.95 - $30.95 c~~~~N $26.95 co~~~;~\' :f .. Mu In< fn Jo M• m1 tu1 uo (If I I'll!' llf M ., tr1 Cil .. . ' . I Tl IS a cam I rae: callc The org:: for rene T Col mer a Sl tob, C Ul app He! Ad~ Ass Cia Gn Dir I \\it He Pw Ri< M< the ,ki as pla :\a !>Ir t r< t e se: 'P }- i th St co ill

. . 'CONCORDfENSIS, Thursday, Apri/25.1974 Pa!{e 5 Spring Siding UColl Child Care Center by ILISA BARON center. H:ELP WANTED includes an ex.am. at the cntl. This course r.e.places two other previously required courses, Standard Fitst Aid and Advanced First Aid. It is impo.rtant to finish up th.is portion of the First Aid hefore the fall or else the schedule will become extremely tight, and the necessary fi.rst aid courses may prove either scarce or non- GI{istent. T r~nsporta tion will be provided by the club. Next fall, the NSP Winter first Aid Course will be offered for ~hose who successfully complete the Red Cross Personal. First Aid Course. Winter First Aid specific~lly deals with winter :problems encountered in ~kiing, for example, frostbite, hoot-top fractures, afi,d dislocations. This requires a six hour outdoor practical exam in winter conditions. The Union College Child G:are Center, now in its planning stages, will be opened this coming September. The Center will be available to any person affiliated with the Union Community: faculty, administration, students, and alumni. According to Mary Werner, wife of fro f. T. Werner (Chemistry) there are various reasons for the establishment of a Child Care Center at Union. 1-irst, it would attract female faculty,. because it would offer a place to take care of their children ''\ hile they are teaching. Second, it v.ould help build community :.pirit by having children on campus and having the community itself organizing the center. Third, it wowld attract hack woman students who have left school to have children. 'MAN or WOMAN OVER l8 . ' FOR S'EASONAL· OUTDOOR WORK M11$t tekt ,ato -hovl\l rtf first eld train· lrt<~ .!Jhi~ v~rlv i ·hour first akt re- fruller cour-st for w~end work. .Jol) tralniM reoulred •t· ·no oav. Must M In oOOd ohvslcal condition. . mu~t be 11llt to withstand lernoera- :turts of 30 · below zero tnd winds IJO to 7o miles D'l!r hour. Mud also lift twice lhelr own, welqhl, o~l t\~avv 1Qids. m'ove et 'lhe soetd of lift and d!i It 111 ovtr lq.aln the next diV. Must buv ciwn .unlfOI'i'nl ancl ftull)ment al'ld orovklt awn trensoorta.tton. Remuneration .lfta. Cl~s r~soec:t. smiles end ccc......,. t1 t9Mink vov leiters. . . . . 'PttTERJ:S'1'ED PERSONI \LEASE ClONTACT • · •• •· •. \. ANV ONE OF THI .• : 9 ...... 27,.@ .. : -';· .... M•Mee•s ()F TH. tf.\TIONAL · ·.· ·.: :· . · ltCI PATROL ·' :· .•. ·. :· .•• ·' . . . • • . .. ~ ·1 •' .. · ·• . .• ·<. •••• , • . ;. ~, :. : ... ; • by SUSAN DUFEL The Union College Ski Patrol is a club activity on Union's campus. It constitutes one fraction of a larger organization called the National Ski Patrol. The Ski Patrol is a service . organization whose members ski for free in return for· services rendered to injured sk;iiers. The metnbers of the Union College Ski Patrol become members of the NS.P after passing a series of first aid, skiing, and toboggan tests. The Ski Patrol currently con.sists of a,pproximately 20 members. Jim Heller is the .Pa.trol Leader;. Steve Adams, Treasurer; Brent Morgan, Assistant .Patrol Leader; Mike Goler, First Aid Director, and Greg Clear, Acting Training Director. · · The Patrol is directly involved with three local ski areas: Homestead. lo.cat-ed · in Pattersonville, N. Y ., Maple Ridge in Rotterdam, and West Mountain in Glens Falls. lt is at these three areas that most of the ski and toboggan training as well as patrolling for the club takes place. Becoming a member of the National Ski Patrol_ is quite simple, but time-consuming. Th.e training schedule has been tentatively outlined for next !ieason; trammg begins this spring. The Red Cross Personal First Aid Course will be given in the spring, in either the Schenectady or Albany area. The course involves from 16 to 20 hours of classroom time, and ln January of next year, training will begin fora skiing test which examines elefilenta·ry skiing techniques such as controlled snow~plowing, parallel stops, side-slipping, and skiing, in control, over a designated course. If, and when, the Ski Proficiency Test is pa·ssed, toboggan t raining b~gins. A toboggan exam is administered after training .applicants' in successful operation of a toboggan on any slope or trail,. and in any snow condition at the home area. After each.· of the above courses is completed, membership is granted · in the National Ski Patrol, entitling the skier to ski at certain areas for free for the service of administering aid to injured skiiers. Union ·College Ski Patrol carries on other activities in addition to the training involved with Ski Patrol membership. There are parties, ski trips, and weekend excursions sponsored by the group. Call Jim Heller at the Annex, at 374-7342 for information. Survey f ontinued from Page 3 the questionnaires in sealed envelopes. Nevertheless, it was felt that this was preferable to completely eliminating off. campus students from sample as \\as done last spring due mainly to a shortage of time. The survey was distributed in the last weeks of winter term so that all students would have experienced at least one full term lit Union so that the senior class would not be too. depleted by ~tudents graduating early. Late wint~r term, however. is generally lhat time of the year when student morale reaches its low point. This -,hould be ke.pt in mi.nd when attitudes about Union (notably the sociallife) are analyzed in the next few issues .of Concordiensis. Sunday, May 12 is Mothers Day. Surprise her with a lovely pendant or charm from Grauba:rt and Sons to mark the occasion \Serving Schenectady for 3 Generations Planning for the Center began three months ago, when a group of people met to set up a twelve- member steering committee nf fnculty 11 in:-.;. Provost Enteman. a great man to hop with. faculty, students. and administrators. One part of this committee i~ in search of rooms and space, another will establsih by-laws and regulations, a third is in charge of hiring a teacher. All twelve work on fund-raising . The Center will be set up as a cooperative program; anyone who ·v.ishes to leave his or her children there, must donate some -time to participate in tk running of the According to Mrs. Werner,. the committee would like to open the · Center in September, but the openi-ng is contingent upon raising enough money around SJ,OOO to make the space which becomes available for the .program fire safe. Right now, the most important task of the committee is to ~a.ise the necessary funds. lhis Saturday, April 27, an auction and sale will be held to benefit the Center. The sale will take place from 1:0:00 a.m.-4:00 p.m. and will include handicraft items, baked goods, plants, and used books. At 1:00 p.m. higher- priced items will be auctioned off, as well as twenty services. Items to be auctioned off include a Mexican dinner for four people with Prof. and Mrs. :'\: ichols. Japanese dinner for two people with Prof. and Mrs. Werner, bar-hopping with Provost and Mrs. Enteman, Square dance calling for a party ·by Prof. Sca.ife, bartending, car- \\ashing. baking, tennis and pie- throwing with (or at) a professor. Anyone wishing to donate anything to the sale or auction is SPRING SOCi-AL CALENDAR APRIL 26 Coffeehouse. The Mitchell-Ruff Duo, Memorial Chapel. 8:00 p.m. 27 Concert. Chet Arthur and the Flaming Aces, Memorial Chapel. 9:00p.m. MAY 3 Concert. Tom Paxton. Memorial Chapel. 8:00p.m. 4 Sprinp: Fever Clambake, Girling Center. 3:00 p.m .. and Beer and Band Party, Sigma Chi. 9:00 p.m. (Proceeds to Wallace Village for Minimally Retarded Children). 10 Coffeehouse. Chris & Tony, Old Chapel 11 Carnival Weekend, Outdoor Concert, Skye ·17 BSA Weekend. Concert. Billy Cobham. Memorial Chapel. 18 Coffeehouse. Bob Bernhardt. Old Chapel. 24 Coffeehouse. Hogan & Dugan. Old Chapel. 25 Dance in the Gym. band not yet booked. 31 Concert. Martin Mull, and Duke and the Drivers. Memorial Chapel. 10:00 p.m. JUNE 1 Outdoor Concert. Dryiack, and Edward Fox Blues Band. 7 Coffeehouse. Finals Freebie. Old Chapel. put this in your purse before the}! get 1n -your hair! The earth shattering noise from this pu'rse·fitting horn gives you the protection you've been looking for against ml!ggers and rapists. Just snap two penlight batteries into this amazing new Vigilant Alarm and you're ready. No wires required. Complete package includes super simple instructions showing how the Alarm can also be easily installed on windows or doors. GET VIGILANT BEFORE THEY GET YOU. SUPPLY LIMITED .... MAIL THIS COUPON TODAY! Send me of Vigilant Burglar Alarms I enclose $3.00for each Vigilant Alarm. I understand that if I am not totally satisfied, I will receive a complete refund if returned within 10 days. Family Jewels Ltd. 3431 West Villard Avenue Milwaukee, Wisconsin 53209 NAME----------~----~--------~--~---- ADDRESS CITY .. -----~--- STATE ____ ZII'·----- ·- --- - 0 asked to call Prof. or Mrs. Werner (.370-3099 or 370..()251). Prqf. Chqrles Walter John Sca((e. caller rxtraordinaire. - photo. Cliff l.angweiler .,_,.,..Ww,..,.,..Jlft.\t:i¥QCi.UJ1i\'£1JJ:A SENIORS!! Engineering Graduate :1 nte rested i.n making a career in a small, progressive company, imol,ved in designing and installing heating, ventilating, air conditioning and environmental ~ystems~ Participate in all shop, field, sales, and design portions of the business? Write to: Donald J. Homka, Consolidated Sheet Metal Works, Inc.. 933 Stark Street. P. 0. Box 96, Utica, New York 13502. Residence llall Director at SUNY A (a .live-in position), responsible for 400 students and staff of 8-12 people. Sala-ry $8,000 plus apartment. Prefer M.A. but in some ca~es, will accept special background or skills instead. More information at Placement Office. Library Technical Assistant at SUNYA ·- Assist in operation and maintenance of the Circulation Desk and related public service areas. B.A., fluency in English. and knowledge of one or more foreign languages and/ or • library routines. ~eadline for applications is April 30, 1974. More information and address at Placement Office. Part-Time Residence Director Start August 8, 1974. Bachelor's Degree and some experience in residence halls. $2.400 plus room. Supervise other part·time student-staff, individual and group adv.isor. Address at the Placement Office for position at SUNY~. ENGINEERS-SENIORS Several positions open ·for civil and mechanical engineers. Salaries from $11.000 and up. Come to the Placement office for details..:..-·----------·T T T\V ,....._LUU .... ~J./.,I.Y~W:-..-.-,JJ.£U. SpecllltC.11111Cellfledurinl Walka•dl-la&lma•ID18 lll'llil•rlauiiJII STANLEY N. KAPLMI EDUCATIONAL Cl!fiYIR I,TD. ............. _ .... \ u·~--- tm~u· •• . 317· .. \ CI111RI't01 .....,. · \\' ..... -...... . . a.-ch..-lnMtter Cltl••·lft U.S.A. ................ 'I , ••• ,.,

'0 (;_ONCORDIENSJS, Thursdm·. t1rril 25, 1974 Paf{e 5 Spring Skiing UColl Child Care Center by ILISA BARON center. HELP WANTED includes am exam at the .:mJ. This course replaces two other previously required courses, Standard First Aid and Advanced f-irst Aid. It is important to finish up this portion of the First Aid before the fall or else the schedule will become extremely tight, and the necessary first aid courses may prove either scarce or non- existent. TraHsportation will be provided by the club. Next fall. the NSP WiAter First Aid Cotuse v. ill be .offered for those who \Uccessfully complete the Red Cross Persorml First Aid Course. Winter First Aid specifically deals \\ ith winter problems encountered in ski.ing, for example. frostbite, h o ot-t o p fr act u res. a n d dislocations. This requires a six hour outdoor practical exam in winter conditions. !'he Union College Child Care Center, now in its planning stages, will be opened this coming September. The Center wiH be available to any person affHiated \\ith the Union Community: laculty, administration, students, and alumni. According to Mary Werner, \\ ife of Prof. T. Werner (Chemistry) there are various reasons for the establishment of a Child Care Center at Union. 1-irst. it would att!act female faculty. because it would offer a place to take care of their children \\ hile they are teaching. Second, it \\ould help build community -.pirit by having children on campus and having the community itself organizimg the center. lhird. it would attract hack woman students who have left school to hao.e children. MAN or WOMAN OVER 1,8 FOR SEASONAL OUTDOOR WORK Muit la-t ,.0 hOY\' of flnt aid train· 1M t~~lu• ve.arlv 8 hour first aid re- fr~,,er cwrse I~ wmend work. Job lralniM re<~ulred at no oav. Must be In Good ChVSICII condition, must be ablt to wllhll&nd t~mQero· .turn of lO ·below rero and winds uo to 70 m tiel lit r hour. Mu~l also lift twlct their own weloht, oull 1'1~&\IV loads. move at lhe SQe!d of life and do It all over aoa In 11111 MXt dn. Must buv own unlfOrma and fQuloment and orovldt uwn tr1nsoortallon. Remunertllon 1ft. cllldn rtsoe<l. smllet end occ..._ .. ttlanlt vov tellers. . , . ' . ·INTERESTED PE~SONI . , PLEASE CONTACT • · •. \ ANY ONE OF THII 0 • 0 •• 27.000 . . : : .. MIMD E IllS OF THI . · · HA'I'IONAI. . : : . SIC! ~ATRCM. . . ' . · . :.\ .. 0 l ' ., .. > ..... by SUSAN DUFEL The Union College Ski Patrol is a club activity on Union's campus. It constttutes one traction of a larger organilation called the National Ski Patrol. The Ski Patrol is a service organization whose members ski for free in return for services rendered to injured skiiers. The members of the Union College Ski Patrol become members of the NS P after passing a series of first aid, skiing, and toboggan tests. The Ski Patrol currently consists of approximately 20 members. Jim Heller is the Patrol Leader; Steve Adams, Treasurer: Brent Morgan, Assistant Patrol Leader; Mike Cioler, First Aid Director, and ( i reg Clear. Acting Training Director. · I'he Patrol is directly involved v. ith three local ski areas: Homestead. located in Pattersonville, N. Y .• Maple Ridge in Rotterdam, and West Mountain in Glens Falls. It is at these three areas that most of the ~ki and toboggan training as well as patrolling for the club takes place. Becoming a member of the :\ational Ski Patrol is quite ~imple. but time-consuming. The training schedule has been tentatively outlined for next ~cason: trammg begins this ~pring. The Red Cross Personal I· irst Aid Course will be given in the spring. In either the Schenectady llr A lhany area. The course involves from 16 to 20 hours of classroom time. and l n January of next year, training will begin for a skiing test \\hich examines elementary skiing techniques such as controLled ~now-plowing. parallel stops, ~ide-slipping, and skiing, lfl control, over a designated course. H. and wheR, the Ski Proficiency lest is passed, toboggan training begins. A toboggaR exam is administered after training applicants in successful operation of a toboggan on any ~lope or trail. and in any snow condition at the home area. After each of the above courses is completed, membership is granted in the National Ski Patrol. entitling the skier to ski at certain areas for free for the service of administering aid to injured skiiers. lJ nion College Ski Patrol carries on other activities in addition to the training involved with Ski Patrol membership. There are parties, ski trips, and weekend excursions sponsored by the group. Call Jim Heller at the Annex, at 374-7342 for information. Survey Continued from Page 3 the questionnaires in sealed envelopes. Nevertheless, it was telt that this was preferable to completely eliminating off- campus students from ~ample as \\a~ done last spring due mainly to a shortage of time. I he survey was distributed in the last weeks of winter term so that all students would have ~:xperienced at least one full term at Union ~o that the senior class \\ ould not be too depleted by ,tudcnts graduating early. Late \\inter term, however. is generally that time of the year when student morale reaches its low point. ·1 his ,jwuld be kept in mind v.hen attitudes about Union (notably the social life) arc analped in the next fc\\ issues of C'oncordiensis. Sunday. May 12 is Mothers Day. Surprise her with a lovelY pendant or charm from Grauhart and Sons to mark the occasion \Serving Schenectady for 3 Generations PlarH1ing for the Center began three months ago, when a group of people met to set up a twelve- member steering committee L'll mposcd of faculty \\ i \'l''. Provost Enteman. a ~r£'at man to hnp with taculty. students. and administrators. One part of this committee is in search of rooms and space. another will establsih by-laws and regulations. a third is in charge of hiring a teacher. All twelve work on fund-raising. Ihe Center will be set up as a cooperative program: anyone who \\ ishes to leave his or her children there. must donate some time to participate m t·ll running of the According to Mrs. Werner, the committee wnuld like to open the Center in September. but the llpening i~ contingent upon raising enough money around SJ.OOO to make the space which hecomes available for the program fire safe. Right now, the most important task of the committee is to ra1se the necessarJ funds. I his Saturday, April 27. an auction and sale will he held to benefit the Center. The sale will take place from 10:00 a.m.-4:00 p.m. and will includt:\ handicraft items. baked good:-,. plants. and u~ed hooh. At I :00 p.m. higher- priced items will be auctioned off. as well as twenty services. Items to be auctioned off include a Mexican dinner for four people with Prof. and Mrs. '\ichols. Japanese dinner for two people with Prof. and Mrs. Werner. bar-hopping with Provost and Mrs. Enteman, Square dance calling for a party hy Prof. Scaife, bartending, car- \\ashing. baking. tennis and pie- throwing with (or at) a professor. Anyone wishing to donate anything to the sale or auction is SPRING SOCiAL CALENDAR APRIL 26 Coffeehouse. The Mitchell-Ruff Duo, Memorial Chapel. 8:00p.m. 27 Concert. Chet Arthur and the Flaming Aces. Memorial Chapel. 9:00p.m. MAY 3 Concert. Tom Paxton. Memorial Chapel. 8:00p.m. 4 Sprin)::! Fever Clambake. Girling Center. 3:00p.m .. and Beer and Band Party. Sigma Chi. 9:00 p.m. (Proceeds to Wallace Villa)::!e for Minimally Retarded Children). 10 Coffeehouse. Chris & Tony, Old Chapel 11 Carnival Weekend. Outdoor Concert. Skye 17 BSA Weekend. Concert. Billy Cobham. Memorial Chapel. I R Coffeehouse. Boh Bernhardt. Old Chapel. 24 Coffeehouse. Hogan & Dugan. Old Chapel. 25 Dance in the Gvm. hand not yet hooked. ~I ConcerL Martin MulL and Duke and the Drivers. Memorial Chapel. 10:00 p.m. .TlTNF 1 Outdoor Concert. Dryiack. and Edward Fox Blues Band. 7 Coffeehouse. Finals Freebie, Old Chapel. put this in your purse before they get an your hair! The earth shattering noise from this purse-fitting horn gives you the protection you've been looking for against muggers and rapists. Just snap two penlight batteries into this amazing new Vigilar:~t Alarm and you're ready. No wires required. Complete package includes super simple instructions showing how the Alarm can also be easily installed on windows or doors. GET VIGILANT BEFORE THEY GET YOU. SUPPLY LIMITED MAIL THIS COUPON TODAY I Send me of VIgilant Burglar Alarms I enclose $~.00for each Vig1lant Alarm. I understand I hat if I am not totally satiSfied, I will reca1ve a complete refund 1f returned w1th1n 10 days. Family Jewels Ltd. 3431 West V1llard Avenue Milwaukee, Wisconsin 53209 NAME------------------------------------- ADDRESS-------------------------------- CITY-------- ____ STATE ___ ZIP· __ __ asked to call Prof. or Mrs. Wt:rner (370-3099 or 370-6251 ). ~~ ' l: :1'? Prof. Charles f.'J.'after .John Scaife. caller e \'lraordinaire photo. (']iff l angweiler .,._-_~\:J..\t..-r..c:.:m-,p..-.Tg.,J~ SENIORS!! Engineering Graduate lntcre~t~:d in making a career in a ~mall. progressive company. Ill\ olved in designing and mstalling heating. \Cntilating. air conditioning and environmental '!~terns\! Participate in all shop. ticld. sales. and design portions of the husiness\! Write to: Donald J. Homka. Consolid:1ted Sheet \1ctal Works. Inc .. 933 Stark Stn.:et. P. 0. Box 96. Utica. :\e\\ York 13502. Residence Hall Director at S U \; Y A (a live-in pos1t10n ). responsible for 400 students and ,taff of H-12 people. Salary $8.000 plus apartment. Prefer M.A. but in some cases. will accept special hackground or skills instead. Vlore information at Placement Office. Library Technical Assistant at S U ;-..: Y A Assist in operation and maintenance of the Circulation Desk and related puhlic service areas. B.A., fluency rn English. and knowledge of one nr more foreign languages and, or library routines. Deadline for applications is April 30, 1974. \1ore information and address at Placement Office. J>art-Time Residence Director Start August 8. 1974. Bachelor's Degree and some experience in residence halls. ~2.400 plus room. Supervise other part-time student· staff, individual and group advisor. Address at the Placement Office for position at Sl':-.:YA. ENGINEERS-SENIORS Sc\eral positions open for civil and mechanical engineers. Salaries from $11.000 and up. Come to the Placement office for Jetails. .... ,.,...,-.w .. -.s...aou .......... -Tw, .. JG-~'TJSa.·w-..cv MCAT-DAT-GRE. LSAT-ATGSB OCAJ NATL. BDS~ .......... far- rtiQUftd.for edmillion togndullt!IMII ~ lianaiiChoola • Six and.._ .-ian COUflll • SmlllllfOUIII •vCifuminala ,... ... f« hclme ltUdV Pfiiiii'Wd bv..,.,.. in. _ftetd •a.-on ......... c.. 1M! Ulilonld to rme1 ~ .... u.on. can be ..-;I awr a period of _,... montf. to • vur. or far out Gf tc~mltUdramlt • period ofoneWHk •Opponunityfor ......- oA -· ........ 1M 1ha c:mWf lpat:iiiCoM~~MC....da.irlnl Walllt_. -lutlll ui'DM .....,Smfu,• STANLEY H. KAPLAN IEDUCATIOIIIAL CEN'ftll &..TD. -~---u~JI m=t• .., . SJ.iA . ~~-· ... ~ DA'fS. ne-.IIUICUIIIIJ ' 8Nnchoa In Mater Citi••·ln U.S.A. ................. t. :¢*'; ... ,

Page6 CONCORDIENSJS, Thursday, Apri/25, 1974. BLITHER The results of the last Student-Faculty Bridge Tournament are: (1) Desrochers and Warner: .(2) T. Hartman and Feller; (3) Cha.nsky ~;tnd Guare. The next meeting will be May 7 at 7:45 p.m. i_!l Hale House Lower Lounge. Dinner at the Sk8Uer * * ·* * Seniors: graduation announcements are in. See Mrs. Marra at Student Activities. * * * * All applicants for Orientation Advisorpositions shomd sign up for interviews with the Orientation Committee at the Dean of Students .Office. The deadline for signing up is Friday. April 26. * * * * The Court on Pets and Parking will meet at 7 p.m. on Mmiday, April 29 in !he first floor lounge of South College_. * * * * The-Health Studies Seminar series is sponsoring Lois Meyer, consumer affairs .officer in the Buffalo office of the FDA on \Quality Control in Drug Production,\ May 2, at 4 p.m. in Hale House Lounge. * * * * The International Relations Club will sponsor a lecture by Marcus Franda. Associate Professor ·of Political Science at Colgate University on the topic \India and the Energy Crunch.\ India is now facing a desperate crisis both economically and politicany due in large part to the energy crisis. The lecture will be in SSOI6 -at 7:30p.m. on Tuesday, April30. Everyone is invited to attend. * * * * Margo Thunderbird, dau~hter of the chief of the Shinnecock Indians. will be speaking on reservation life as the second participant in the American Indians comp ed speaker series this Wednesday. May I at 8 p.m. in Strauss Lounge. All members of the campus communitv are invited. * * * * - Anvone interested in babvsitting during the Union College Day Care ·facility fundraising day (April 27) from I 0-4, call Debbie or Barb. 393~ 7 I 52. or leave a note in the Women's Caucus Mailbox, Student Activities Office. * * * * by CARL BROWN Saga has completed negotiations with the Steering Committee with regard to board plans for the 1974-75 school year. Three new board plans, aU with options for taking meals at the - Rathskeller or Hale House, as ·well as West College will be introduced in fall '74. These board plans include a 1(1-meal plan for $197,00 per term, a 14-meal plan ($249.00), and a 20'-meal plan ($270.00). The present 20·mean plan at West only ($249.00) will he retained-, but the present 14- - . \ meal plan will be dropped. Fall term, freshmen will he re<Juired to take the 20-meal, no-option plan. Option Plan Offered According to the option plans, for each meal skipped at West, the student will receive credit for $·1.25 redeemahie--a t the Skeller or Hale. Beer and wine may be purchased with meal ticket credit,_ but change will not be given on any purchase less than $1 .25. If a meal is skipped or will be missed at West in a given week~ fbe credit must be used during that week. \This will keep stu~en1s from TALENTED POET by MARILYN RASKIN He sang, he d?nced, he played the kazoo. Michael Horovitz, a British poet, entertained a small group in Hale House Upper Lounge last rhursday night. What had been advertised as a poetry reading turned out to be a one-man mixed media show. Horovitz illustrated his conception of poetry as a blend of form and content by charading, kazooing, and semi-singing much· of what he had written. His free Review: Marti-n Mull style of writing was evident in, that his general comments to the audience flowed int.o 'his recitation till one could barely distinguish between conversation and poetry. Horovitz claimed that most of his writing was spontam;ous.- and attempted to illus-trate by- reading one lengthy poem in a single breath. The poetry, unfortunately, was either diminished by the blast of a kazoo, sung in a pitch t-<>o high for human ears, or rushed· through at a frantic pace_ After the show, copies of Horovitz's anthologies, Children of Albion, Love Poem$, were strewn around. I skimmed through one and the quality of writing surprised me. The language was a collage of wit and drinking away an entire term's boa.rd money in the first two weeks;\ explained Saga's Hal Richardson. High Food Prices Food prices have be~n skyrocketing, hut Gary Hipp and Richardson also blame thievery and waste for Saga's rising operating costs. The recent Saga plea for the return of swiped silverware was unsuccessful. Hipp said that no more than. 50 sets of silve.rware had been recovered. Hipp estimated that 60\pounds food, taken by .stugents but n.ot eaten, are thrown out after every meal. In addition, 25% to 30% of all milk (which has increased in price by 17% since September) is thrown out. \My hands are tied by costs,\ says J:lipp. \People are · rnak.ing d-emands which we are unable to meet because ·of cost, lf students would take only what they can .eat, we could meet S()me of these demands.\ -_ All candidates for office ar~ invited to submit short statements 1;1nd photographs to CONCORDY. If photos are unavailable, contact Photo Editors Leslie Steineker (346-9344) or Cliff Langweiler (346-9895). To avoid. conflict of interest among candidates on the CONCORDY stdf, statements, photos, and any questions. will be handled by non-candidate BiD Talis (346- The IEEE Student Branch at Union College will host the 1974 Upper New York Subregion I Student Paper Contest on Friday, April 26. in SSOJ6. The campus community is invited to the oral presentations. which will commence at I :OOp.m. * * * * The women's caucus meets every Monday night, Strauss Lounge, by CHUCK ROTHMAN Martin 'Mull is Nor:mal. At least that's the title of his latest album. This is the third album by the man who first became known to the public about a year ago with his single \Dueling Tubas.\ The sense of humor apparent in that release is in full view in his latest work. 9688). wisdom. Exclamation marks, r.~-· ------......._....--...._ _ _.._,; even when physically absent. at 9 p.m. abounded, and the words moaned * * * * poignantly from the pages like a low kazoo. Familv film night at the Schenectady Public Library is Friday, April26 at 7:30p.m .. open to the public. Films include W.C. Fields. New * * * * A nv students who are interested in working as counselors this summer at.~ camp for blind adults should contact Jim Rostenberg · (346-9735) as soon as possible. Male counselors are especially needed. Mull has a- talent for musical humor, a field that he has practically all to himself now that the Bonzo Dog Band has broken up and Tom Lehrer is in retirement. Normal contains such Religious Services Democrat-s Special to Concordiensis lunacy as the title song, a story of . a person's decision to do what The newly-formed Umon New Hillel Fellowship normal people do. \Wood Shop\ Democrati~ c;oalition met describes Mull's favorite High Tuesday mght ~~ Hale llou~e School subject (with the aid of Lo~nge .. The ~eetmg was held m Power-Tool Chorus or as it's also conJUnction With the Schenectady Hillel is planning a special Friday night service for Parents' Weekend. All students and their parents are invited to attend. The service will begin at 7:30 p.m. in Strauss Lounge in the Student Center, and will be followed by an Oneg Shabbat. Yom Haatzmaut, Israel's Independence Day, will be celebrated this Sunday. Groups from the entire Tri-City area will be participating in a parade in Albany. A bus will leave from Union College, but seats must be reserved. This can be done free of charge by contacting Bob Kaslovsky, 116 Fox (370-6456) or Scott Reiter, 15 I Davidson (370- 652t). The parade will be followed by a carnival at the Albany JCC, and return transportation will, of course, be provided. . Levr.:s On Sunday, April 28, the called, Crosby, Stills,, Black and NDC. Priorities of the group, Christian Fellowship will be Decker). \Rome and Bored\ and methods, and the election of leading a worship service for the \Drunkard's Waltz\ are self- delegates to the May 12 state College Community and parents. explanatory, while \Jesus Christ convention were acted upon. The Rev. David Morgan of East Football Star\ is a nice gospel Do~g. C~rpenter, the campus GlenviiJe Community Church is spoof. A group of fine musicians groups chair~an, .was elected to presenting the message. Please back up Mu1l and the music be the groups vot~ng d~legate to come and share in this act of consistentlv underscores the the conventmn, which Will be held worship. The service will be at humor o(the lyrics. in New York City.~ Phyll!s I 0:00 a.m. in Memorial Chapel. Edelman was elected the groups The Christian Fellowship .alternate delegate to the would like to remind the College convention. community that Tuesday, April GERBER'S WORLD. For The priorities of the ,group 30 has been designated as a . all those whose life~s ambition touch on various topics. The National Day of Prayer, by has been to shape world group decided that its focl)s Congress, to encourage events, contact Robert Gerber would rest on state candidates Americans to pray for the state of concerning the inter-nation and organization of the campus h · d k G d' simulation at 346-9895. t e · natiOn an see o s and surrounding community for forgiveness and guidance. its chosen candidates. The Memorial Chapel has been coalition also will act in voter reserved all day Tuesday as a registration drives both off .and place for silent meditation and on campus. Finally, the group prayer. Those wishing to do. so will act to diss-eminate are invited to make use of the Dave's. MetiS s~ information campus. This will be ChapeL Please consider spending uvp accomplished through sponsored even a small part of the day in ,. 453 State St. lectures and films, as Well as the prayer or introspection. _ -(downtown Scbeneclady) I ·traditional campaign literature. · The Union New Democratic r~----- . --~--------~-~ I - • Coalition is a grass roots political I (' l .J .I. ~ n I .J ll .J I group in its formative stages. The hJKfltlt·· 111/Rt rermoni I :~~=. b~tif~~ .~~~. ,~·m:;~: 1- - - I add the political spark that the I expert instruetiPn lA the I P'esent apolitreal oampus needs .~N'S J.ttenic hills or Vermont I UQlJ()RS. I JJ9RM STYLE LODGING .AND ALL HElLS .I Tel37~·-- I J.ULY·7-27--$~SO--LIMITED ENROLLMENT I Mon.o$at. 9 a.m.-'9 p.m. 1 - I ~StateSt. 1 WRITE--THE MINDS EYE WORKSHOP I Do - I /. .. I ~,_· .,.•._..to .. wn~S 1111111 cJacaecta~.._d.y...,.~ . CHATEAU ECOLE, PITTSFORD,. VT. 0$763 ~ ,1 ·.-. - ...... , ·\. . I ., ~ ~ ~~~~~---~ ........ \i!'i*~---------------· 713 ALBANY ST. No delivery chorge with lk•o 8 cut pizzas. . Wit DIUVKM t1NT1L MIDNIGHT Cd374-56. Levfs For the session starting July, 1974, Euromed will assist qualified Amer- ican students in gaining admission to recognized overseas medical schools.· And that's just the beginning. Since the language barrier constitutes the preponderate difficulty in succeed· ing at a foreign school, the Euromed program also includes an intensive 12·1'6 week medical and conversa• tiona! language course, mandatory for a·ll students. Five hours daily, 5 days per week (12-16 weeks) the course is given in the country Where the student will attend medical school . In addition, Euromed provides stu· dents with a 12·16 week intensive cui· !ural Orientation program, with Amer- ican students now studying medicine in that particular country serving as counselors. Senior or graduate students currently enrolled iri an American university are eligible to participate in the Euromed program. Fat application and further information, phone toll free: (800) 645-1234 in New York State phone: (516) 7 46-2380 or write, Euromed, ltd. 170 Old Country Road Mineola, N.Y.11501 I Dt lof th bl!sel of i a pole -the r \B COO( sumr Coli< an 1 yean any . this whe.t \We thret Mite Rick Our pitct also not outd the Unh the Tl poss · fine han' pitcl year perf car1 Stoc pote Gou Wh1 anc fre~ Pal Hi~ H; will catc! Bree read need 0 posi Ron shor and last Joh1 star1 ank The Ste\ spo1 bet~ Neil T secc

1 CONCORDTENS!S, Thursday. Apri/25. 1974 Page7 Baseball Outlook by HANK BERNSTEIN Editor's Note: , Due to an accidental omission tof the last section of last week's baseba·n article, a revised edition of it has been printed. My apolc:.gies to Hank Bernstein for ·the mistake. leftfleld, Gene Quirk 111 center. and Stockman or Breedlove in rigllt. Miller can stroke ,the long ball when he's hitting weH and Qtrirlc is \very very g<Jod; he's fast and he can throvv,\ Quirk ahng with Westbrook are the m~st reliable hitters and also give the .squad pretty fair speed. This, the baseball season has promise. Many veterans are ret11rning from last yea.t~s roster and·some new faces are evident. If the defense pet:ks up and if the hitting comes around as eK.pected, · look · for another sparkling campaign! Tennis Slugs RPI 9-0 ... by ROD L.. ' ' successful, compet1t1ve and The U-Coll tennis team opened _ worthwhile sports programs . the '74 season last Thursday with a resounding 9-0 thumping of hapless R.P.l. at the gymnasium courts. It was the first victory for rookie coach Ed Tornga and hopefully an omen or good things to come in future matches. As :this is reportedly the final year of intercollegiate tennis at Union because of budget priorities, hopefully the squad will be able to annex one final successful campaign before it is dropped froril Union's present array of All six singles were swept impressively by the Dutchmen with the loss of only one set. Kevin Crawford took the number one slot contest 7-5, 6-2, while Roman Rakoczy swept the number two match 6·1, 6-4. Experienced Jack Larousch decisioned R.P.l.'s number three, 6-4, 64. Frosh Steve Marcus, displaying a powerful backcoutt game, won easily 6-1, 6-I. Steve Wayne had a tougher time of it before prevailing in three sets and - in the sixth · singles, Oenms Lindenherjlcame out a 6-2, 7-5 winner. In the doubles, Crawford and Rakoc7v won convincingly 6- 2, 6-2, as did senior Paul Donkountt and Marcus. The final doubles rnatch was by far the most exciting as Tim Moran and Bob Gerber held on for a three set victory, the first two sets decided by tie-breakers. \Baseball is just unpredictable! .. concluded Art La wren.ce, summing up this year's Union College Baseball team. Lawrence, an athletic coach for over 30 years, was rather hesitant to make any precise forecasts concerning . this year's squad. Much rests on whether or not the hits come. G • l A. 1· · T· • h t \We lost <last year to graduation) · . .1 f • 8 ·. . 8 0 . f l U ffi P a ll tht:ee really good ones in Bob The racketmen next face Harper, there on Wednesday and return home for matches on Friday and' Saturday. The Friday encounter is with , power-laden Rochester, runner-up to Penn State in the N.C.A.A. Eastern Regiona;ls last spring. It looks to be the toughest opposition that will be faced all spring. The match is at 2:00 p.m. at the gymnasium courts as is Saturday's foray with Siena which begins at noon. Come out and lend some support and br,ing your folks. Maybe they can convince someone up there that this sport should not go. Mitchell, Bob Bernhardt, and TFC '76 , rriatch, but came out on top ~ith Ricky Arons. We need hitting. On Monday afterno<Jn, Umon a score of 8-6, will be at Union on April 25, .playing four singles and two doubles matches. Union players will journey to Troy for another confrontation with R.P.I. on May 6th. With the help of Coach Hinkley and the Athletic Department, this match was a success which will hopefully be followed by more of the same. Our defense will perk up. Our coeds arrived at a smashing - The Girl's Tennis Club is off to pitching can 'be solid.\ Lawrence vi~tory when they mopped the a good start this year. There are also noted that the weather did sl:tde rulettes off the cotut~. Under twenty-eight members and half of not permit the team to. practice ~l<ludy. and ~loomy _s~tes an~ these girls are ready and eager for outdoors until just 2 days before Httermittent ram, th~ Gul s Tennts inter-coHegiate competition. The the season opener against Drew Club outpaced therr opponents. Dutchwomen have two more University. This, of course, put Twinkle toes Par:n Anderson,. matches this spring. Russell Sage' the team a bit behind. number one smgles, was The team overall shoUld victorio1,1s 6-1, 6-1. Joanne possibly improve on last year's l\1uther, .co-captain, did not have · fine season, where less than a it so easy. After splitting the first handful of games were lost. The two sets. she pulled through pitching corps appears set. Three- winning ·the two hour lllatch 8-6, year man Joey Urschel is a solid 2-6. 6-4. Joni Becker,. number performer with a 12-2 college three singles, was also triumphant career record and Steve 6-1. 6-1. Our doubles pair, Loren Stockman is a hurler with Gordon and Jill Korostoff, beat potentiaL There is also Jon the R.P.I. duo 6-2, 6-4. Due to Gould, coming along rapidly, rain and to a time element, Lee who has been· ouite impressive. Russell, number four singles and and two .. as vet unproven co-captain, played a clos~ pro- freshmen-· sou.thpaw Noah . f1-IIISI511111HIIMHI.SIII.IIIItte11Stl~ .. Palev and Charlie Flanagan. : SIGMA CHI CLAMBAKE i Highhopesr:_~s!withthesefive. • j Come to the Sig 111 a_,Cbi! Handling the catching chores :Clambake Saturday, Nay 4th! will be Skip Lega - a good • and benefit the children ofj catcher with a decent stick. Greg 'Wallace Village f()r the: Breedlove, also an outfielder, is .ninimally retarded. All the: ready to go behind the plate if dams, hotdogs, potato salad~ I needed. · etc. you can eat. All the beer Only two of the four .infield ::vop can drink. Ne\\ larger positions are nailed down as yet. . 1 faeilities this year bec:ause of Ron Westbrook is an \excellent the tremendous turnout of last shortstop\ according to Lawrence :vear. The Clambake will be and Rolf Wandel, a veteran from lteld at the Girting Center this last year, is at first. At second :vear with continuous bus John Busterud was expected to !Senrice from the Hehlhouse.1 start, but came up with a \bum 'Time: Clambake: 3:00-6:00 • ankle\ before the season. JIIR. Also, Band· Party at the Therefore, Gary B(}rgese and Sigma Chi House fr()ln 9:00 Steve Andrews are vying for the pn to 2:00 am, featuring the spot. The hot corner is also up ' Edward Fox Blues Band. between Don Milder and Olie 1'ickets: $3.50 in advance, Neilson. S4.00 at the door. A great The outfield is strong with cause and a great tilne. Come second-year mao Lou Miller in :and bring your friends. . ll._lliielil iiiiiMiilntH-1111••- .. • D~NAROSS lS B'LLIE !HOLliDAY - Saturday at 7, 9:40, 11:15 Sunday at 7, 9:40 · · - 75¢-SO¢ with J.D. New Names Continued from Paee 2 trying to remember his name. Now here is the place to exert your tired· imagination. Aren't Sales personnel to sel:l the hottest i tern ever to hit the ·market! \KEEP ON STREAKlNG\ stickers advertised in National magazines and newspaper. Thousands and thousan,ds af leads furnished upon request. Retails for 50¢. Your cost 30<t each in lots of twelve or more. Send check or money order to: you tired of being Ed Menke, or Wally O'Rock or Larry Brown? Now is your chance to be whoever you have ever dr~amed of being!~ James Bond, George Washington, John Dean, Greta Garbo, Eliphalet Nott, the sky's the limit, or until the petitioner is through tying his shoe. It's a chance you won't have again until next year. Use it! r ' ~- ::_ <.' International Advertising Agency 3723 Catherine Street Shreveport, Louisiana 71109 ·· ... :·· : .. · .. • ... ·.· ... ·.-. . ·. There's no easy way for Charlie Nelson to become Dr. Nelson. But there is a way to make it somewhat ea~ier. Our way. The Armed Forces Health Professions Scholarship Program. It won't soften the demands of your professors. or those you m!Jke upon yourself -~ut it may free you from those fmanc.1al pr.oblems whtch, understandably, can put a cnmp tn your concentration. If you qualify, our scholarship program will cover the costs of your medical education. More, you'll receive a good monthly allowance all. through your schooling. But what happens after you graduate? Then, as a health care officer in the military branch of your choice you enter a~professional environment that is challenging, stimulating and satisfying. An environment which keeps yol\ in contacnvith practically all medical specialties. Which gives you the time to observe and learn before you decide on your specialty. Which may present the opportunity to train in that specialty .. And to practice it. You may also find some of the most advanced medical achievements happening right where you work. Like at the Brooke Army Medical Center in San Antonio, Texas, long noted for its 'Burn Treat- ment Center. Or the hOme of Flight Medicine, the fam~ Aerospace Medical. Division, also in San Antonio. Or the National Naval Medical Center in Bethesda, Maryland, recognized worldwide for its work in Medical Research. And if you've read this far, you may be interested in the details. Just send in the coupon and we'll supply them, r-----~----------~---~--, 1 ~~~j,_d Forces Scholarships Z.CN-44 II I Universal City, Texas 78148 1 1 I desire Information far the following,program: Army 0 1 1 Navy 0 Air Force r;:t Medical/Osteopathic 0 Dental 0 1 Veterinary• 0 ·Pod•atry D Other (please specify) I Name-----.=:=:=;;----~· (please prlfll) soc. sec.# Address City State Zip Enrolled at (K;I\001) To graduate in cmonthl (Y'!arl (de;ree) Date of birth (month) (day) (year) •veterinary-not available in Navy PIOfVam. .a L----------------~------ ARMI!D FORCES HI!ALTH CARE DEDICATED TO MEDICINE AND THE PEOPLE WHO PRACTICE IT .... -··~· - \'

.,. Page8 .CONCORDIENSIS, Thursday, April25, 1974 Union Baseball Wins First, 4·1 and each game adds experience. saw the Union bats come alive Although the team stands with with 12 hits - 3 by Miller and 2 only I victory against 2 losses, apiece from Skip Lega, Wandel, brighter results are forecast. . and Quirk. Union was nursing a by HANK BERNSTEIN The pieces seem to be falling . into place nGW for rhe Garnet basebaU team. A£ter dropping their second game ·of the young sea'son to W.P.I. last Friday, the Dutchmen registered .a respectable 4-I decision over Siena on Monday. Coach Lawrence again repeated, \ ... a few errors imd hitting - that's our whole problem.\ He seemed slyly optimistic, though, as he was quick to point out that Rolf Dave Plumber ~!ides over the bar in th_e hif{h jump in Wandel and Gene Quirk are The ballgame against W.PJ. at slim l.:O margin when it exploded Worcester was, as the Coach for 3 runs on 4 extra-base hits .in phrased it, \a loosely played the seventh. Only an appeal play, game.\ The final score was 8-6. claiming ·fhat Quirk did not touch Jon Gould was on the mound and third base after Ron Westbr0ok's did \a good job for 7 innings.\ double, ended the inning. Siena \fhe ·score was 3-3 after ·six scored its lone run in the eighth to innings,. with both squads spoil Urschers bid fot a shutout committ'ing a number of errors. and account for the final. 4-I The final third of the contest, score. however, proved very costly to This week U. Coil. ha.s 5 games Union. W.PJ. pushed across 5 on tap, weather permitting. tallies on a pair of hom~ runs -~ a Today ~ double-header was two run shot in the seventh and a schedl.lled at Albany State with 'three run shot in the eighth. The Gould and Noah Paley, a Garnet desperately tried to catcl;! freshman, the probable sta,rters. up,. scoring 3 runs in the ninth, Urschel will be on the mound but fell short by a deuce. Again, Parents' We.ekend (this Saturd~y) as in the Drew game, too many at 2 p.m. against Hamilton. men were left on base. Wandel Rocheste:r- will be in Schenectady had 2 hits and knocked in 2 runs. Tuesday afternoon; (.Jnion travels Miller knocked in 2 runs, also, to Norwich on Wednesday. learn with a triple in the fifth. Gould imp~ovement is evident t .each took the loss. game. Jf the hits he,gin to come Saturdav's rout over Middlebury. Dave cleared 6'2\. start!ng to hit ~nd Lou Miller \is photo credit Leslie Steineker commg along. !he sq~ad has . been able to practice outside more Trackmen Over-run · Middlebury 123~22 by ALISON SLOAT battled back and forth for tne third with 19' 10\. Patterson and S_a~urda~ marked the second lead in the open quarter mile, De Stefano came back to claim decisive wm of. the season as the finally crossing the finish line first and second in the triple jump D~tchmen thmclads trounced hand in hand and tying for the as the two hop skipped and Middlebur~ . ,123-2~ .at home. win (52.3). Junior Greg Luntz jumped 42' lOW' and 41' 4\ Thus, U mon ~ wmnm!? streak rounded out the scoring in the respectively. extended to fifteen: T~Is streak 440 with a 54.9 third. Bill Mowery picked up a set of now goes on the hne m a dual Co-captain Ricks once again wins in the weight events as he meet versus Albany State, o_n the_ took winners honors in the pole heaved the shot 50' 4\ and threw SUNY A track, State boastmg a vault at 13' whil~ Bill Thompson the discus 134' 4\. Sophomore 23 rneet winning streak. followed with 12' for second. Pete Sherman and freshman Rich Sophomere Steve Jones was Although Milt Herring, Alden Norman completed the Gamet high _scorer ~or th~ ~utchmen as Sherman, Broomes and Andy sweep of the disc 'Yith respective he. tnpled Wit~ wms m the th~ee Rosenthal put together a winning distances of 125' 2W' and 116' 7\. mile (15: 18), mil~ ( 4:24.1) and t_Ied 440 relay team, timed in 46.4, the Middlebury's only Win of tht fo.r top honor~ In the half mtles . race ended on a poor note as day came frem a 181' 5W' toss of WI~h Mar~ Mmdel (2:01.8~. Stan Rosenthal pulled a hamstring the javelin by Shearer. Norman Wiskowski foll_owed. Jonesie t~ a jeopardizing the remainder of his (167' 7W') and John f:raser (153' 15:~2 second m .the t~ree mile, season. 7 W') picked up points for the while Scott Kahna p1cked up Herring and Sherman returned Dutchmen with second and third third place in the 880 for one of to take first and S!econd, places. the day's many Garnet sweeps. respectively in both the 100 and The next outing for the Union Fre_shman Mark S~h~uer, after 220 yard dashes. Herring's wins in trackmen is a short jump over to speedi?g to a 16.2 wm m the I 20 10.3 and 22.8, Sherman's places in Albany State where the two teams yd. high hurdles, returned to 10.5 and 23.5. will battle to determine which will break his own 440 yd. Freshma.n Dave Plumer maintain an unblemished record. intermediate hurdles record, repeated his performance of the established just last week, with a previous week as he skyed to a 56.3 win. With a 60.3 clocking win in the high jump at 6' 2\. Dave Ricks claimed second in the John De Stefano picked up intermediates. Later in the day second at 5' 8\ while Dave Ricks Scheuer and Ricks teamed up hung on for third with 5' 6\. with Minner and Jeff Broomes to Senior Roger McDonald long combine for a 3:29.7 win in the jumped 20' 4\12'' for the win as mile relay. Brad Patterson leapt 20' 4W' for Ricks and Broomes were second and Johnny De pi~ked up together once more as they Milt H'errinK crosses the .finish line in the 100 yd. dash on Saturday in 10.3. Milt also took the 220 in 22.8 sec. · photo credit Leslie Steineker · Golf Coach Bill Scanlon's team opens its season at Hamilton this week. Sophomore Dave Papa (Albany, N.Y.) figures to be the top Dutchman on a team that includes lettermen Bob Gronauer (Bria.rcliff Manor, N.Y.), a senior, and junior Ed Lynch (Allegany, N.Y.) and soph6rnore Brian Ziegler (Woodmere, N.Y.). HIGHUGHTS OF PARENTS WEEKEND ••The Sound of AmeJica\ featuring the Micheli-Ruff duo will he presented Fridav night at R p.m. in Memorial Chapel. The Mitcheii-R uff Duo traces the development of Afro- American music. from their incetion in 1955. and stand as leaders in American ian. A good time is to he had hv all. Faculty Lectures Facultv lectures will he presented Saturdav. April 27. Speakin)! will he: at lO a.m.. Prof. Graves on Pvscholovv in Psvch lO I. Prof. Herk on Historv in SSl 15. and a panel discussion. inclduing Profs, Nichols J. King.T. Watts in HUllS. At 10:30 a.m 1 Profs. Kershner and Finkelstein will speak on 'economoc Perspectives in SSOJ6. Mr. .Jospeh Maras will speak on student aid at 2 p.m. in HUll 5. The Women's Glee C'luh will present an \Afternoon Nttsicale\at 2 p.m. in Arts 202. C'het Arthur and the Flaming Aces will pejform in Memorial Chapel Saturdav night at 9 p.m. Arsenic and Old Lacj will be smwn Thursdav. Fridav amd Saturdav nights as · well as Saturday aftetnon. Monday's victory against Siena and if the weather~ which has was very satisfying. It exemplified alFeady postponed 3 games, is the solid pitching as Urschel kind, there will be more additions hurled a 6 hitter, striking out 6. to the Garnets• win column with \He pitched a hell o( a ballgame. each game. Siena is a good ballclub.\ It also -- Lax SPlits _Pair -_ -- b FRANCESCO ISGRO death overtim~, and the game was Y won once agam by the Garnet. The Union College Lacrosse Dennis- Walker and Robert· team returns home thi~ Thursday, · Grossman again led the Union for three consecutive home attack. Walker tallied five times,. games, after having split two ~hile Grossman scored twice, but away contests. On April 15~h; the was able to give 7 assists. He 11lso Garnet were throttled by Williams scored the overtime goal. 10-7, but last Saturday they Charlie Howe, Don Ward and managed to snap a sudden-death .1 ohn Thompson all tallied twice overtime win away from each· Bruce Davis and Mark Syracuse. Thus the AUlson- Wal~h each scored their first goals coached team stands with a 2-1 of the season. Goalies Steve record with 8 more games left in Haddard and Al Ritchie the season. combined for 20 saves. Despite the three point loss, the AUison Judges Garnet played rather well against \l'tn looking toward a good powerful Williams. At the end. of season, but we have a lot ofwork the third quarter, .t~e Umon to do. We_ have got .. tO\play a very la~men wer~ only t:aiimg by ~ne aggressive lacrosse game. pomt, and It was m the closmg Sometimes we tend to slow down, minutes of the game when and we also have a few freshmen Williams clinched the game by on the team w.ho need more scoring two consecutive goals. experience,\ Bruce Allison, Number 34, Carl Walker, put t.he entering his 17th year as Union's J?utchll!en on the scoreboard With Lacrosse Coach is a very realistic five. mmutes. left on the clock. man. \At this point in time, we. Semor Denms Walker _and D?n are playing good lacrosse. The-: Ward both~ scored twice, While attack is pretty well settled, but Robert Grossman scored once we m us t make some and had one assist. Freshm~n ~tar improvements on defense. I'm not .John Thompson added h1s fifth pleased with the number of goals goal of the season. Numb~r. 32, we have given up.\ Starting today Stan O'Brien, played a bnlhant the Union Laxmen will face three defense, and goalie Steve. opponents who have beaten Haddard. made 23 saves. Union in the past three years. On Saturday, the Garnet Allison's first concern is against traveled to Syracuse. For two RPI who embarrassed Union 14-5 consecutive seasons the Uni?n last year. followed by Middlebury Laxmen have had a one pomt on Sat.Urday for Parents victory over this opponent. Weekend, and St. lawrence on Tradition was ag~in f~llowed as the following Tuesday. All games the game was dec1ded m sudden- will be played at Daley field. DAY Fri.· -Sat. -Sat. -Sat. -Sat. -Tues. -Tues. -Wed. -Wed. THIS WEEK IN HOME SPORTS SPORT OPPONENT -Tennis -Rochester -JV Lacrosse -Middlebury -V Lacrosse -Middlebury -Rasehall -H&.mHton -Tennis -Siena . -Rasehall -Rochester -V Lacrosse -St. Lawrence -Tennis -Clark -Golf -Siena FINE DINING This Weekend With Your Parents _ at . The Van Dyke Fri. and Sat. till 1 a.m. Sbn. ttill Midnight TIME -2:00pm -1:30pm -1:00pm -2:00pm -Noon -3:00pm -3:00pm -2:00pm .:3:00pm 374--2406 237 Union St. Stockade - Pm fo for in Vol. Tc m£ mz St: ad vi mem An natu. ~Biolc to c fresh facul It ad vi~ in fresh most facul to fc will to fi pre-1 mem Al ad vi: be tv. projc meet In Unic ~inc dog Mis! to a in f1 dog, m Hal) rope d 0~ affec plai1 of n K reco dire, mad Alb' arm Rat con: '• ~· Hea A obsc .. So leas T len!

