I (' I ~ --? ' ' 'Ito·,,., SpeeiaJ Twit Issue! Re!!ching , new lows of journalistic fluhbecy. How low can you go?,, Find out: read Dist()rdensis. Vot, 104, No. 26 · • . f(How,do you spell journalism?,'~ J. Scheer Wednesday~ Jun~ 4,}975 • Lost: Five or six partial decks of eiuds. If found, please bring to the CONCORDY omee or store In a cool, dry place until Fall • 35eents Exam Week Postponed ' . Until June 31 ! !see story page 51 ., f' _ .. -\ ' ' ~ ···- '' > ,,,,, ,' ,•':;''-•. : ' Speculation arose last week after DI~TORTY received an anonymous telephone call fr,om a man identifying himself as \The Pink Flamingo\. This source revealed a pattern of frequent visits to the Continental Bookstore (a local clear-inghouse which distr-ibutes a plethora of books .and films designed to fulfill your wildest' dreams) by high ranking officials of this institution. Upon receiving said phone call, DISTORTY dispatched a crack reporter and photographer to inves~igate the allegations. Arriving at the .. bookstore, he found a startled Dean Herb Wylen fleeing front the scene. Wylen 'Categorically· denied the story and says that he \has never been near the· joint\. However, ail employee of that establishment interviewed · shortly after the photo was taken said; \Yeah I remember this guy. 'I had to make sure he was over 21; aU be had was a Union I.D. so I let him in. When I told him there was a photographer o~t$ide he storJned QUt tbroqgh the front door grabbing .. a copy of \SCREW\ naagazazine·in his haste.\.FOR THE INSIDE STORY. SE:E PG .. 33. ' Ice Rink Parking Solved !se·e story page 3) 'Pink Flamingos': An Artistic Triumph 1 see story page 3) The Year In Review 1 see story page 3) Ducks Win Tournament !see story page 3) Scheer Voted 'Twit of the Year' 1 see story page 0) Administrator Caught in the Act <~--

Top Dogs ....................................... The Arch Twit Col. Bat Guano Feature .Editor ............................................. ??r??'n Culture Twits ............................... Wallace McAffy Spiney Skwitz Sports Editors ............................... Kevin Crawford Barb Dewey Managing Twit ................ Clarence \The Cropper\ Copy Twit.. ................................ Phil \da Butcher\ Contributing Twits ......................................... huh? Business Managing Twit .............. Fielding Mellish National .Ad Twitt ........................ , .... Betsy Barnett Subscriptwits ..................................... Shelley Gold Lisa Tietz-y Fly Photo Twits: Greg \pies\ Cohen, Dan \the Man\ McManamon, Rich \Lenscap•• Guardian, Rudy \Flashbulb\ Lu, Arthur \Solutions\ Miller,. \Dandy\ Don Hamerman, Dave \Negatives\ Grossman. · Non-photo Twits: Bill \Blitherman\ Plaus, Rude .. man, Rude-mate, Sue \Thick as a•• Brickman, Jack \The Pit\ Pitney, Matt \Not so\ Brief. CONCORDIENSIS is published every Wedn~day by tile·· student body of Union College, Old Gym Hall, Sch~ne~tady, N.Y.; to which Postal Forms 3579 ate directed. Publications ()fflce: The Jewish World Publications, 416 Smith St., Schenectady, N.Y. 12305 (370•S41lJ). Enter~d in the Schenectady r\ost Office as Second C'-ss Matter. Subscription Rate 35 cent~ per copy. $8;00 a year delivered anywhere in'the United States. tau beta pies On Tuesday evening, May 27, the Union College chapter of Tau ·Beta Pi initiated six new members. The Tau Beta Pi Assgciation is a national engineering honor society which was formed in 1885 to of:er appropriate recognition . for superior scholarship and exemplary character. It filled an existing void by offering technical students the same type of acknowledgement as that afforded by Phi Beta Kappa in the Liberal Arts. Tau Beta Pi is primarily a student organization, and it is the only honor society that serves tpe ~n#re engineering profession. ~n a ceremony at Hale House, which was attended by Mr. Thomas M. Linville, the association's national president, the following were initiated: Thomas E. Goemaat '76 Barton P. Mercer '76 J. David Parker '75 Huseyin Salahi '76 James B. Saxe '76 Gerald E. Speitel Jr. '76 What sort of twits create CONCORDY? Twits that truly represent the Union intellectual climate. FACT: No CONCORDY editor ever walked away from Little Friskies. . ' -~ . ..__,...., .. ,. ........ .. d ... ·· you sa1· .. · 11 ebet's -boys Editors,. Concordiensis: . Chet Arthur and the Flaming Aces would like to express their sincere thanks for the support that the Union community has given them in the past three years. When presented with the ·roses, followed by a standing ovation, otu hearts were in our throats. AU of us agree that it was one of the most beautiful moments in each. of our lives. Thank You Union Don Amira Mike Goldsmith Jon Levin Jim ·Kestenbaum Mark MacDonald Bill Martin Mar-k Whittlesey Sandy Shor good lord Editors, Concotdiensis: Good lord. not another nostalgic letter t:rom some graduating senior about ''good old Union.\ Too late,. that',s what it is and you've started it so why not continue reading? I do not mean to say that all my experiences in these four years have been enjoyable. -I am n()t psychotic. ln. fact only now; in retrospect,. atn l able to see h()W absolutely powerfu;l and permeating some of the :pressures have been for me at Union. How, in many ways spiritual blinders are provided and neal'ly required in order to deal with some of the aspects of life here. But 1 do want to say mQst sincerely, in the sallie spirit as the song by Liv Taylor, to my friends for their honesty and kindness,. to those professors who· have pul a part of themselves into their teaching and inspired me, to those administrators who really w.ork hard and , care, and the old tradition-saturated entity Union College itself: I thank you. Sineerely, Ro1 Scott Rubenfeld '75 thieves Editors, Concordiensis: I would. like to thank all the villains, vandals, thieves, cutthroats, muggers, rapists, arsonists. and llashers for making my first year here as a freshman a year filled with adventure. My special thanks go out to the fellow who stole my $40 worth of textbooks last w_eek. Because of this. I will 11unk· out and go back to Needles. California to pump gas. By .having $40 stolen, I have saved myself $3650. How can I _repay you:? Come out to Needles some time and I will give yotl a free fill~up. you lousy knotbrain. Sincerely, Matf Heinatics buddy Editors, Concordiensis: Having served as Director of lrttramurals for the past six. months, I would like to take a moment to- thank all those who have assisted me in niaking this transition. I believe that the Union Coll~ge students desire and are ready for an expanded and diversified intramural program._ Tbis was evide_nce4 bY. their cooperation with . this year's program, their · response to tile s·po.rts ; ' • I questionnaire, and their assistance in the search for a committee to help with intramurals. I would like to thank the following indivicjuals and groups for their assistance tQ me this past bluff. Are you mterested? Signed, John Q. Public vear: . - D~l;ln Smith- and the- ~~~d~nt. ~:: ~ _, :thankli: - Servtces- personnel -- · . · - · · · - Bill Fleming ~ machine shop . Walt Stone, Dick Mills and the Maintenance staff 'Members of the Athletic Department Members of the Security Department Concordiensis Student Tax. Committee Sincerely, Gale c. .Knoll konkordy Editors,. Konkordiensiz: I four won am ap6atiled at the eyedea of a re·k\'ir~mint for J.nglish that would bee imposed on Freshmans at Union Cooledge. Eye thinck this wood be foolisch, and a waist of the stoodints monee and that we can all right good enougfh so that. we dont need any ov the son of stuff like they want to make -us all:ready intellUent peo:pole go threw with. . . . Your str~wly~ Fidaeleus Van Sumppump bombs! E~itors, Concordieosis: I wish to inforni you that there is a bomb in your Smith-Corona Electric. The next time you turn it on, the circuit will be· closed and you will ha·ve fifteen seconds before it blows UP' in your face. That should teach you to make derogatory remarks ·about the administrators on this campus. You think you can get aw<~,y with that sort of thing, you cowardly clutch of backstabbing typographical errors! To think that the Union College Student Newspaper, ance so fine and upstandmg a pubJtcatton, a reader in the field of good, wholesome, healthy and sensible news, should have fallen into the hands of such obvious moral degenerates as yourselves. You think you can take the judgeitr<:Hl'lt ' · of the campus into your own· ha,nd·s, do ya1.1? You think you have the right and the power to decide what is right and what is wrong, do you? Well I've taken care of that. By my watch. you have five seconds · to live. Bye bye. you creeps, Four- three- -two- one- Hey, what .happened. The bomb something went wrong! You're still here. I've failed! Oh, rats rats rats! Unsigned Editors note: Tile Smith Corona has been out of or~er since October. Nice try, Larry. By the way, we have a proposition for you. Get in touch with us. will you? puffs Editors; Concordiensis: You may be interested to know that l have discovered the cause of the mysterious puffing noise which. the Biology wing · of the Science and Engineering Center makes late at night. It has to do with various after-hours practices of certain ta-::ulty and students. 1 approached them with an 'offer to keep silent. but they call~tl my '• . Editors. Concordiensis: I want to express my lasting .gratitude to the many people ~ both students and faculty - who questioned. the validity of my tenure decision and tried to .protest in a meaningful way. David Stineback Department of English. stneeo tower Editors, New York Times: - . ...._. I am shocked and sadc.!ened by · the lack of unimportant, local .news which you do not print in your supposedly · open-minded and anti-apathetic papei'. Do you· think that we all live in a Stucco Tower? Do you think that the foolish-. little, inane things wbicll go on around nere do not affect the man on the street? And you can yourselVes a newspaper. Do you really believe -that no one out here cares about the price of pencils and the number of cigare~te butts on the corner? Huh'! bo you really think that all we. care about is all -that stuff thafs. going em sQ far away) couldn't get there. If 1 tried, Get wise, fellas. lf you Want to increase your r~adership, win friends, influence people, control your dandruff. and avoid ho-hum mouth. start printing all the news that twits can squint, and you ;will find yourself on the top of the bottom of the wprld of journalism. Stop kid(:ling'yQur&elf. When was the last time ,anybody wrote you a letter ·and Jold you where to go'? When was the last time you printed one? Will you print this one'? Will 1 have to send it to that paragon of journalistic excellence. Coneordiensis, to have my message printed for all the world to see? Only time will tell. Remember what Walt Kelly said: Given three strikes, the truth will out. Signed, Chilblane Rickets moorehead Editors, Concordiensis~ News has spread. that Professor Robert Moorhead's contract will be discontinued and we would iike to voice our displeasure. We have taken courses with Professor Moorhead for reasons that we feel are valid in considering him a good Professor. Among other things. Professor Moorhead desires a rapport with his students; whether he has time or not he is ready to share his rich .store of knowledge as a teacher and a critic. Also, he _is truly interested in the arts and in - inspiring students in the field and his relaxed demeanor facilitates this process. While he appreciates ·creativity, he also gives the structure and knoWledge for it to be expressed. We are not sure what he is being c~nsured for, but any criti~ism of Professor Moorhead is irrelevant in view of his attributes. Sincerely. . Fran Coolidge . Li~ Baumwell . · .l)ave MtlndeloWitz 1\fatk, Birrittella . .... r;.•

ng ho to by m ou· a to rol of · ast ell. ed, we a his or ich in to but .~· lt· .o\1..:1 e! '\ •• ?.: ' ) r:.• ,,. r;.• • CONCORDIENSTS, WednesdQy, June 4, 1975 --~============~====~~--~~--~~~~~== ~~~--------------------~----------------------------------- 3 .,. .Dorm dweilers dememstrate definite dividends C?f downstairs doorway. . . . Pervasive Parking Problem BY PETER The powerfully perv~sive problem of parking the pl~thor~ of Plymouths and Pontiacs Which may plug the present parking places to ponder the .persons who play with puck~ has been prematurely put away. Perhaps the problem · was perennially a pain, but people c::~n be proud: of the .impeccable problem~poppers whicq populate this place. The solution is so simple that it seems silly that someone somewhere didn't sttlinble on it somehow and saVe the sorrow that has saturated the school. ignorance. Why to think what an extended . period af the enlightenm~!lktb.at .led to ~his breakthrougn\Vould do for Umon College, arid mankind as a unified whole~ why it's just ... Excuse me. The plan is· that, on nights when there are hockey games being played, all the students will be up at the .rink Watching people smack each otlter with sticks. Their rooms will. be empty, and we all know that empty · space does not pay for itself. So what better space to put the vehicles of visiting hockey fans? going to see the hockey games, and that their studies might be interrupted . by a Cadillac drivi.qg over their Vertebrate notes. But everything always works out in the end, right'! The moles that stay in their rooms can help direct the trafTic in the dorm-qua- parking facility. I tell you; it's enough to make -a man stand up and leave town. And that's what we may have to do when this issue comes out. But why be glum? We'll all be back next fall, so tune in next term for the next installment of \Parking Lot Funnies,\ same bat-time, same bat-twit-publication. Have a nice summer, wingnuts. .BLITHER ll Students will be able to store furniture over the summer in the College Center. ro()m 202. Furniture can be moved on Friday. June 6 from 1:00 p.m. to 5:00p.m. and on Thursday June 12 from 9:00 a.m. to neon. Be sure you have a name tag on each piece of furniture. All organizations interested in having a room in the College Center for next year, including organizations presently lo_cated there, must notify Craig Carlson (admissions). * \' \' * All students interested in participating in Cross-Country next-fall: please leave you name and summer address with T. Bick, Mathematics Department, or with Mrs. McGourty in the Athletic Department office. Women as well as men are invited. · * * * * The Freshmen Record 1979 is now taking orders in the . Student Activities Office. Bound copies are $5.50, unbound are $4.50. DEADLINE IS JUNE II!! * • \' * Anyone interested in being a football manager next year • please contact either Kent Hall (370~6627) or Coach Cahill (ext. 6284 . Pink Flamingos - by JACK PITNEY Ma~e no mistake abot.U it:· Pink Flamingos is a dassic. With utmost filmic artistry, director John Waters plunges into the bowels of human existence and takes us through to the light at the end of the tunnel. He gives us more than a movie. He gives .us an\\ experience. ~ moving experience. The cinematography is breathtaking. The lush colors evoke man's communion with his e;wironment~ browns and greens prevail. The use of hand-held camera and grainy lilm stock (blown up from 8-mm) enhance the naturalistic atrnosphere. Indeed. the irgagery is so vivid one can almost smell it. Even more important than the film's visual beauty is its complex plot. At times. the movie is a phantasmagora: characters come and go without rhyme or .reason. Eventually, however. their motive becomes clear: they are all looking for God. This quest is allegorized through the character of Divine. a beautiful young woman who seeks to be one with nature. but who can't hear to see anyone closer to nature than she. In the end. she meets her just deserts: she must eat a strange substance. the name of which is an anagram for GOD HITS. So much for that. The solution is to simply park the cars in the domritoiies! As. our photo illustrates, this can be a simple, ·economical use of space which, at the moment, is not really U!i,ed for much of anything. The cost of fitting hydraulic ramps and photoelectric doors on each 4-man-suite living room in Fox and. Davidson . has. been compared to the cost of paying the research and development costs to·invent a matter-converter to store visiting autos as cheese sandwiches, and it bas been found that it would be much cheaper to keep all the money and buy a used Lamboughini. Ducks Win ·tt Beyond its moralism, Pink Flamingos is a paean to life. Two small but 'touching scenes reaJIIrm the characters· love of God's Creation. While strolling through the park. DiYine stops to fertilize a scruffy patch of grass. Meanwhile. her son is worried about the physical condition of his chicken. so he performs some unorthodox exercises with it. The reasoning is so faultless, that even to relate the train of th\oughi. the relationai quantification, the truth- functional beauty, is to wonder thaf · 'inan can live in such Some people objected to the fact that not all students would be by BUBBLES LATOURRE On a hot. humid, Saturday, the Phi Delta Theta Ducks went all the way to victory in the Third Annual · Delta. Phi Hack Volleyball Championship and Lenox Road Bragging. Rights Contest. The Ducks defeated Delta Chi, Sigma Phi, The The· Year That Was This past academic year has been memorable in many a.spects; one only ·need summarize it month. bv month to realize its full impact. · · September - 55(;) Freshman come for Orientation, 500 left afterwards. Termed ••big success\ bv all those involved. No classes on Yom Kippur. A. first. Six studetlts seen · going to temple. Dean Smith grows one inch, Provost Enteman shortens by one i!)ch. President Bonner smiles. October - Classes in full swing, moans heard for summer vacation. DU sees light, vows abstinence. Senate tabies grades, calendar. racism. community participation. arid governance. Dean Smith grows another inch, Enteman loses another, Bonner still smiling. November National elections. Rumors abound that some Union College stUdents actually sent home absentee !Jaliots. 5 brothers of OU caught running 1hrough halls of Richmond, naked and drunk. Bonner smiles. Smith grows, Enteman shortens. Senate tables grades. calendar. racism, community participation, and governance. Trustees promise pub. · December ~- Koala, Holiday, and Ramada Inns filled as students prep~re for Finals. Senate tables grades. calendar, racism. community participation, governance. but decides not to table Christmas Vacation. Harkness·. ··afld Cahill. signed, Bonner's· ~:mn\le- turns to broad griil. Smith still growing. no one can find Enteman. Trustees promise pub and a partridge in a pear tree. . January - New Year.· New Term. New neuroses. Dean Smith announces Task Forces and grows. Ent~·n ·. · shows up, smaller than ever before. Bonner gr.innin!J, . Senate tabling. 20 six year oJds are kidnapped from orphanage in Montreal. Brother of Delta Phi claims he hears little kids s~::reaming from underneath Achilles Rink. He disappears next day. Trustees promise pub and to renovate Nott. FebruarY -· Phi Beta Kappa Symposium, 325 show up for nighttime discussions. 450 students show up ne.xt day for luncheon at Ramada Inn. That Weekend. Union plays Post on Long Island, only thirty-four left on campus that weekend as the natives go home. Dean Smith approaching seven feet, Enteman approaching five. Bonner grins as he makes TV news. Senate still tabling eVerything in sight. Trustees promise pub and to renovate NotL March - Students once again prepare for finals. All nearby hotels booked. Senate votes down grading change. thus ending College's \major issue,\ tables everything else. Cries of young children still heard beneath Achilles Rink. Seem to be in french. Trustees promise everything. April -- Spring Term begins. T emperatute still below freezing. Ceilings raised in Dean Smith's. house. Uonner visits alumni all over couhtty, smiles and passes out free hockey pucks. Enteman announces Union was $750,000 in black for year 1973-1974. Trustees promise everything and announce $750 raise in tuition over next two years. Senate tables Racism, Calendar, Community Participation. and governance. May -- Spring term in full swing. West Beach fills up. Many girls seen notoriously shying away from ice cream · bowls at West College Cafeteria. Freshman dies of ptomaine poisoning. Saga accepts blame but refuses to take responsibility. Senate passes Racism. Governance, Community Participation after major modifications on each proposal. Elections held amidst constitutional furor, some upsets, some strange students elected to a student government structure that less than five students on campus can explain. June ~ Last Finals Week. Fin~ls begin on Saturday, strangely local temples are filled that Saturday. Harkness announces he Will have great hockey team next year, no more cries heard from pit of Achilles Rink.' Trustees announce that after renovation, \Nipple\ of Nott will be full tit. Senate tables Calendar, Committee regroups at Dean Smith's house for battle strategy. Year ends after students in Bill Daniels' Civil l.ibertiel! class commit mass suicide. Bonner smiles and says Union has made significant strides during year. Students cry When they leave. and linally 'toncordy puts out l)istorty and· nobody know's ditlerent. It was that kind of year. Vikings. and Chi Psi I all in two games. and Chi Psi Z and Delta Phi I in three to win it all in the double elimination tournament. D Phi won the first game:and it looked as if the Ducks bad lost the psych which had brought them that far, but the Ducks tightened up and won the next game to even the match at one game a piece. Only the hard-cores were· left to cheer the teams on, and soon the score was 14-13 Phi Delt. The D Phi team rallied and pulled up to match-tournament point 15-14, but the Ducks remembered what had happened last year. and they tightened up on D Phi Star Bob Grossman, and pulled it out 16-14. Dink those links! In the last analysis, Pink Flamingos is a film for our generation. for it reflects what is in the souls of young Americans today. As I sat in the theater, 1 saw young people all around me suddenly turn pale - they were having a religious experience. As the film progressed, the experience became too much for them: as. they ran out, they covered their mouths so that they would not shout in a spiritual ecstasy. I then knew that they had been touched. For even after the sights and sounds of Pink Flamingos had deserted them, the taste would linger on. on, as Maintenance begins removing the urinals from every building on campus. The ad hoc committee on urinals found that their continued presence on the campus w~ acting as an instigation to sexist attitudes. PY E has · apparently applauded the cht'Jnge, cltliming that toilets use water more economically than urinals anyway.

Page4 CONCORDTENSIS, Wednesday, June 4, 1975 Ricks, Westbrook 7 4·15 Conc,ordy Athletes For the first time since the Concordy Athlete of the Year Award was instituted, there ar~. co-wim'lers ... David Ricks · and Ronald Westbrook. This awa·rd; traditionally given to a senior, has not been given since 1971. Although the sharing of the honor is a first this year, having two such .fine senior athletes as Westbrook and Ricks is al~:~o unique. The seif;:ction of Athlete of .the Year was done by members of the athletic department and the Concordy Sports Editors. Also receiving votes in the balloting Were: B~Ball Captains, Charlie G\lgliotta and Bill Carmody, soccer and lacrosse captain Bob Grossman, baseball and football standout Lou Miller, track heavyweight Bill Mowery, and wrestling captain Bruce Freeman. Gugliatta. and Carmody received several Division Ill, New York State and Capital District honors for their basketball ac-hievements. Charlie was the team's leading rebounder and. scorer while Billy holds Union's game and career assists records. Bob Grossmann was Capital District \lax\ player of the year in '74 and '75 and was tops in the country in assists last year. He also · excelled as a defensive fullback for the soccer team in 4 varsity campaigns. l.ou Miller was the top Union receiver on the gridiron and was the Garnet's most dangerous sr-oring threat. Lou was also a 2- year starter for Coach Lawrence's baseball team. Bill Mowery holds several Union track records in the weight events. He recently placed 8th in the Division Ill shot-put competition at Baldwin Walla~e University. Bruce Freeman placed second in New York State· in the 126 lb. weight class this past season. He is second on the all time list of top point scorers in a season (72 pts. in 72-73). As for the winners, their accomplishments are many. Roll started for four years in botb football and baseball. In the fa11. he was unquestionably Union's top offensive threat at · the halfback position and llolds the modem-day career rushing record for Union College. Switching to baseball in the spring, Ronil)o anchored the defense for 4 seasons with outstanding defensive play at his shortstop position. He was one of the leading hitters every year and was a constant threat on the bases, leading the team in stea:Is all four years. Brook is currently awaiting de.velopments on a possible professional baseball career, as the Roston Red Sox have made the strongesf overtures to date. In addition to his physical prowess, Ron also contributed in a le~detship role, captaining both teams. Dave Ricks just returned from a 6th place finish in the decathalon competition at the NCAA Div. lll championships. For his efforts Dave was selected as an All-American in this gruelling event of stamina and skill. In addition to his four year · track exploits which saw him competing in 5 events at any one time. Oave also. received Academic All-American honors as .a defensive back in football. Among Dave's outstanding characteristics were ltis amazing versatility. consistency~ and leadership. He will return to lJnion next. year going for a Masters in Computer Science; Dave has one year of indoor track eligibility remaining. You're taught what to do Thet:come and watch, and to cheer, and support.,. Responding to the thrill of accomplishment, success, and victory Filled with despair in defeat and failure We are amateurs, striving for excellence in what · we attempt to do, Aware it is but one part of our College Experience ... And Qnyhow~ isn't the outcome 'always decided by the. Referee? v '

