• • unton c.ollege one or Vol. 105, No. 13 Wednesday, February 4, 1976 • • tensts Arts symposium planned; Department to be evaluated This year the college administration is examining the status of tile Arts program at Union. Later this term a group of consultants will arrive to evaluate the Arts Department and make recommendations for future development. In an effort to bring other areas of the college ·to influence final considerations, an Arts Symposium has been organized for Wednesday night, February 25th. The Symposium is the l!>min- by MARSHALL WISOFF child of the student trustees, Geoff and Chris (Taylor and Taylor respectively). Its purpose is to stimulate the students and faculty to consider the present sta.te of the Arts program. and the role such a program should play at a small liberal arts college. The Symposium will start at 4:30 in SS 016 with a talk by Dr. William Bailey, former Dean of the Arts at Yale University and presently a Professor of the Arts there. His speech will center on the importance of the Arts in a collegiate liberal arts program. Following a dinner break the Symposium will resume in SS 0 16 with talks by faculty members from each center of the academic community. Refreshments will be served. Discussion groups will gather aftetwards in lounges around campus. These groups will be facilitated by one student and one professor chosen by the organizing committee. From the Prof Ruth Stevenson; -chairperson of the English Department ·discussions summaries will be made and a report wiH su.bsequently be forwarded to the Chairman of the Arts Department and the President. Four English Dept. positions open As a warmup to the Symposium, a series of special events are planned for the week of February 16. Exhibits will be or. view in the lobby of the College Center. Interviews with faculty members on the subject of the role of the Arts will be aired during the evenings on WR UC. by KELLEY NEWTON The response to· Union's national adverti!;ement informing job-seekers there were positions ava·ilable in Union's English Department for 1976-1977 was overwhelming: over 2000 candidates applied for four (and possibly 5) positions. The process of elimination was made no easier initially because almost· all of the candidates had excellent credentials. The four positions open include one in comparative titerature. one in eighteenth century British literature, one in · modern British literature, and one in American literature. The fifth spot - dependent upon whether or not Professor Steinback returns fo.r the remaining year of his contract - would also be in American literature. Professon Hagen. Caldwell, and Hesford. whose positions were not nationally advertised when they were appointed, must join the other candidates in the selection process. The process itself is c o mp 1 i c a t e d a n d t i me- consuming. The department receives the applicant's resume. is invited for a preliminary interview at the Mod ern Language Association Conventic.m, and then. if the candidate seems like a strong prospect he or she is invited to give a presentation at Union. Ruth Stevenson. chairman of the En~lish department. esiimate\s that at least twentv candidates · ·· and possihly up· to twenty-five will !!ive pre~entations. The candidate'> meet with various members of the English department faculty in the morning of their day at Union, give a presentation to students Anyone i'nterested in working at the Dutch Hollow (Pub) should pick up an application in the personnel office in Sillmann Hall. and facultv. and are then Gleason. chairman of the ·interviewed · by the student Student Committee. estimates committee. Initially, dissatisfac- that the members of the wtth the students~ committee -spend about seven say in the selectiot:t two years ago houts a week just hearing and led to the establishment of the meeting candidates. To that he present system. The students adds the time spent writing up attend the presentation and then separate and group evaluations, meet with the candidate alone. both of which are handed in to Senior English major. Je:ffrey the faculty. The faculty compiles the candidate's resume, recommen- dations, faculty and student evaluations and whatever wo.rk -- either' published or not - the candidates submit. Stevenson says that the selection process will be completed by the end of the term, and the sanguine victors. will be announced. Due to the general tight money condition, it is requested that each participant pay one dollar to help defray costs. Please bring this fee along with the application (found on page 10) to the Student Activities Office no later than February 13th. Ca:IDpus mourns death of Dr~ Tolan Edwin K. Tolan, head librarian at Union College,. died suddenly at his home Sunday aftetnoon (Feb. i) of an .apparent heart attack. He was 54 years old. Dr. Tolan had been. head librarian at Union's Schaffer Library and a professor of philosophy at the College since · 1962. . Dr. Tolan guided Schaffer Library, completed the year before Dr. Tolan arrived at Union, through a period of rapid growth in which the number of volumes increased from 190,000 to more than 320,000 'today. To accommodate the growth, Dr. Tolan planned and oversaw construction of a $2 million addition to the library in 1974. A firm believer in inter-library cooperation, Dr. Tolan was the prime mover in establishing the Capital District Library Council for Reference and Research Resources in 1967. A charter trustee of the council, he served as its first president until 1971. During his term as the council's president. Dr. Tolan organized daily delivery service between 35 local libraries. He also established the council's \union catalog\ which today contains listings of 750,000 volumes in libraries located in eight counties. Or. Tolan wall also responsible for establishing the Schenectady Archives of Science and Technology. which holds papers of such scientists as E.F.W. Alexanderson, Charles P. Steinmetz and Ernst Berg. \He was highly regarded by his students for the breadth of his knowledge and the earnestness with which he taught,\ said an associate. Dr. Tolan's library career began in 1954 at Hamilton College, Clinton, where he served three years as a research librarian. In 1957, he was appointed librarian. at Washington and Jefferson College, a position he held until joining Union College in 1962. Dr. Tolan was a member of the American and New York Ltbrary Associations, and the Biblio- graphical Society of America. He was a trustee of the Schenectady Chapter of the National Railway Historical Association and a member of the Friends of the Schenectady County Library. Services for Dr. Tolan will be at 2 p.m. Wednesday at the Baxter Funeral Home. There will ?e no calling hours. Burial will be m the Union College plot of Vale Cemetery at a later date. A fund has been established in Dr. Tolan's memory. Contributions to the Union College Edwin K. Tolan Memorial Fund should be directed to the President's Office, Union College. Dr. Tolan is suryived by his wife, H. Elizabetli MacLennan Tolan, and two daughters, Joanne :;mci lf'nnifer. Jimmy Breslin, novelist and journalist, spoke in Memorial Chapel last . night. See Story pg. 10. Also. next week: an exclusive inten·iew with Breslin

Page2 Upfrold I • . ' . . ' • • ' • • . ' . ' . ' . ~ . - . . ·. Summer jobs available Summer job placement specialists at Opportunity Research report that the improving economy will provide good opportunities for job placement this summer. Job placement specialists at Opportunity Research indicate that there will be in excess of 50,000 good summer job opportunities at National Park facilities, State Parks, dude ranches and private summer camps. Students are urged to apply early (prior to April I) as the good jobs go fast. Free information on student assistance for summer job placement may be obtained by sending a self- addressed stamped envelope to Opportunity Research, Dept. SJO, 55 Flathead Drive, Kalispell MT 59901. Hillel prepares for Pa_ssover The Holiday of Passover will begin on Wednesday evening, April14, and run through the next Thursday, April 22. This corresponds to the third and fourth weeks of the Spring term. Hillel, in preparation for the Holiday, is attempting to meet the needs of aH Jewish students on the Union campus by arranging rides home for the Seder night, arranging home hospitality here in Schenectady for the Seder, arranging for Kosher for Passover foods, and possibly even project, whether just for Passover, or for the year. In addition, we need to .know what your Passover needs are, so we can attempt. to meet them. Please take a minute to write ·your name and phone number on a 3 x 5 card, along with your anticipated needs for the Pa:;sover Holiday, and drop it in the campus mail, addressed to Hillel, Box 2525. PYE returns The President's Commission on the Status of Women will be presenting a series of 1:00 P.M. on Wednesday, February 11 in Strauss Lounge. Professor Lode will discuss her recent book, other happenings in Economit's and the opportunities for women in the Field of Economics. All are welcome! Bring your lunch, 1 organizing a campus Seder. For the past two years Union's PYE (Protect Your Environment) Club has been running biweekly campus-wide col1ections of newspapers -and magazines for recycling.Last term, due to a change in Maintenance policy, it became impossible to obtain use of the truck which has been used in the last two years. However, everything is. straightened. out now and PY E paper collection is swinging back into action this term. The first collection was made ·this past Friday afternoon and future collections will take place every second Friday. instead of throwing away your papers and magazines just toss'em in the PYE box on your floor. Everyone's cooperation is . really appreciated. We request that you · please keep trash out of the boxes. Anyone interested in participating in the recycling program in any capacity can contact Jon White at Delta Chi 346-9973. luncheon speakers UNION'S OWN WOMEN - talking about their fields, their careers, and their professions. The first speaker of the series, PROFESSOR . IRENE LURIE, will talk at One of the major projects now in the works is the opening of a Kosher Kitchen, in the Davidson Co-op. At this point , we need to know how many people would be interested in joining such a The American Lung Term lll • Athens Association of New York State is looking for 10·20 Volunteers to serve as: Judges, Scorekeepers, and Timers for a youth sports competition. The four-hour sports event is for 6- 13 year old boys and girls and will be held· on Saturday, February 7, · 1976 at Linton High School in Schenectady. Students interested in helping to prm~ide an enjoyable event by HOPE FABIAN an introduction to the study ot archeology with field trips to During the Winter term of various sites in and near Athens. 1976-77, all students having Contemporary Greece - an in- completed the prerequisites will depth study of one of the poorer have the opportunity to journey and less stable European to Athens, Greece. One of the countries, emphasizing the foUowing four courses must be problems of :Eastern-Western taken \to qualify for the trip: relationships. Conflicting Classics 21 - History of Greece; Classics 24 - Greek Art and ideologies, politics, economics, Civilization; CE 40 - Beginnings and cultural and sociological of Democracy; Philosophy 30 - change will be examined. Greek Philosophy. The third course will vary from In preparation for the term year to year depending on the abroad Protessor David Reece, faculty member. Next year's faculty advisor, will provide six course wiU be in Classical Greek orientation meetings to familarize Literature taught by P.rofessor the students. with the Greek Reece. The other two courses will alpha bet and common be taught by Greek instructors expressions; there will be no and will fill two upperclass Comp course credit for these meetings. Ed requirements. All internal Courses available during the regulations will apply (such as term will be: pass-fail) as well as all existing Classical Greek Archeology - scholarships; equivalent semester \ credit will be granted upon Albany symphony Two principal orchestra members will be soloists when the Albany Symphony Orchestra presents its sixth subscription concert of the season at 8:30 pm February 20 at Troy Music Hall and February 21 at the Palace Theatre in Albany. Under the direction Maestm Julius Hegyi, orchestra members lrvln Ciiman, flute, and Marjorie Hartzell, harp, are the fea,tured soloists during Mozart's Con• certo For FlUte and ·uarp. In addition, the orchestra will play The Creation Of The World by Darius Milhaud and two entirely different works based on the same poem T cfiaikowsky's Francesca Da Rimini as well as foote's Francesca Da Rimini. Composed in 1778, Mozart's Concerto For Flute .and Harp employs two solo instruments not usually heard together during a concerto. Characterized by Mozart's usual lightness and grace, the work is especially interesting due to the unusual combination of instruments. In both Albany and Troy, tickest for the February 20 and February 21 concert are available at good locations for $6.50, $5.50, $4.50 and $3.50. Specially priced tickets for stuqents, sertiot citizens and persons under 25 are available at $2.50 also at both locations. Call(518) 465-4755 for reservations, or se11d a self- addressed, stamped envelope to the Albany Symphony 19 Clinton Avenue, Albany, N.Y. 12207. Visit Israel The Israel Program Center of the American Zionist Youth Foundation offers a multitude of programs to young people who wish to spend time in Israel. Summer, six.-month, and full year programs are available to high school, college, and graduate students. Students may study dance, music, art, science, archeology, kibbutz living, Hebrew, Israeli political structure, philosophy, ecology, and more. All programs are designed to promote an understanding of the history, heritage, and people of \\\''\ ' , .. ·• Israel. The Israeli youth-work experience program is in meed of 80-100 volunteers to work -in Israeli development towns. American Jews 21 years old aod over are needed to work as counselors in summer youth programs. All living expenses are covered. Students .interested in any of these programs may obtain further information from the Office of Placement and Career Counseling. ' • .. \ i ~ \ . ' . ' ~ \' \'i - . ~ ... >~ \\.\' \ .. ~ .. l' '\ .. • ·- ( ·>· . . completion. The term abroad in Athens is the inost recent addition since the programs began in 1969 with a pilot trip to Vienna. Professor Klemm is considering the idea of a Far East option for intetested students but one obvious hindrance for these plans is the expensive airfare. Athens, along with all the other term abroad programs (excluding Israel which costs $1250), will cost $1650 (prices do not include airfare). The students will live in apartments or dorms, rather than with families, on the Athens t11ip.. For further information about Athens and other studies abroad, contact Professor Klemm in Humanities 211. . PYE collection boxes are being distributed around campus. So Returned Pea.ce Corps volunteers from Morocco and Afganistan will be on campus to speak with interested seniors and graduate students about volunteer opportunities in the Peace Corps beginning this spring and summer. Ellen Anderson and David Rodbourne can be found at an Information Booth in Carnegie Hall on Feb. 18, 19, 20. Contact the Placement and Career Planning Office for interviews. · It's something to ~hink about. Have you 2 years of your life to share with others? ! for young people in Schenectady should contact The Lung Association at 459· 4197. Mike Oltatte of the Schenectady Children's Home is in need of a volunteer tutor. Anyone interested in helping a Linton High School senior with his accounting course should contact Mr. Oltatte at 346-2387. ''Awright Gent, I Gives Ya Another F~rtnight!!!~~ The 1976 Union Book, in order to be fair and charitible and other such sort of things will give certain members of the· senior class another 14 days and nights to submit their senior statement. My friends the statement can be on anything you want but there is a 50 word limit. · We want to extend to all you ladies and gentlemen who have handed in their statements a fond thank you for making our typing a bit easier to accomplish by submitting the statements in on time. For anyone who just a: .t't got a plum idea in their cotton pickin' heads 'about Vliat's to write, The Union Book invites you to examine the 1969 and 1970 Union Books in the Student Activities Office. Submit statements to the Senior Statement Mailbox in the mailroom or in Student Activities. ....... U.NION BOOK ' ~ .. . ·- ~ t ~ ' ~ . \\ ' . . . . . . . '· .. . . ' ' ' . . ' • .( ... 'J;r ... ~ \... •• ' ~ ..., ... .1 ~. ; ' . ' -~ i •t 1 f. ~ -~· , • It ~ 1 ', 10', .. ' ' :. ;. t -~·1. ; ' . ~ ~ ~ i '! 1 • -~ : :0 1 ' l . ' • .. _,

ber on your n the Hillel, your floor. . really you the in can Chi ung a The 6- and ady. ping in 459- the ng a at . , .. ' ' 5 > ~ • • ... !.'l ~ CONCORD!ENSIS, Wednesday, Feb. 4, 1976 Page3 Student Forum: Calendars, bookstore discussed by AUDREY ROTHSCHILD For two and one-half hours, final proposal stating the major the Student Forum Meeting heard criteria which would determine a pl~thora of intorn:iatio.n where funds are to originate. regardmg the 4-1-4 and 4-3-2 The Forum was extremely calendar .options, the problems shocked when both Glee Clubs facing our ca~pus bookstore, and insisted they were student run and the uncertam future of the that they should be funded by proposed Joint Planning and Student Taxes. The Orchestra Prior_ities-Student ·Tax stated otherwise, believing that Committee. Not only was nothing Professor Waters was ·indeed concrete decided upon, but as the running their ope.rations. David's For~m began its third hour, they first response was to abandon the undid a supposedly final decision proposal, but the Forum made at. their meeting a week conviHced him to go through with before. The Forum had originally the whole .thing. approved the publication of the Campus Voice by a vote of 7-5, Bookstore Question but as a· result of last week's The Forum then heard from meeting, the decision was thrown the Bogkstore Committee, which out and the vote postponed until was represented by Blaire the Forum m~:ets again on Reischer. He presented a list of February 4. suggestions about stock and The Fo·rum had been dosely p.romotions to Mr. Green, who following their agenda and the represented ~ the campus Campus Voice issue was bookstore. He responded to the unexpectedly brought up by Chris · Opinion: suggestions with co ge n t arguments, and the entire discussion ended when he agreed that the students' demands were va:lid but unfeasible. However, it was mentioned that certain student grievances concerning the variety of stock presently occupying every \square inch\ of the bookstore could be met by the pending acquisition of additional space in the student center. Finally, Dean Smith and Professor Craig. members of the now defunct CalendarCommittee, were called on to voice their opinions on the calendar options. By accumulating all the facts that both men had to offer, the Forum intended to decide on particular alternatives which would be well researched and could ttlen be presented to the students at the Town Meeting on February 16. Taylor, one of Union's Student Trustees. Chris charged that the vote taken one week earlier was invalid because he and Geoff Taylor, the other Student Trustee, were not informed of the time change and consequently were unable to attend. Ironically; Chris · had been the person who originally called for the vote. By a show of 9-4, the Forum contended that the vote should not have be.en held and that the Inside Tax by ARNIE HILLER member of the Tax Committee future of the Voice would not be It would be virtually impossible known until the next meeting. at this time to trace the many Not only was the end of the factors which led to the budget meeting somewhat of a surprise, decisions made by the Tax but the beginning did not turn out Committee over the past fifteen , as the Forum members expected. weeks. Having spent countless Presidents of the Woman's and hours pondering the worthiness of Men's Glee Club and Orchestra specific budget requests, we were called down to present to the arrived at what we believed to be Forum the sentiments of their fair, consistent, and workable members regarding whether they appropriations. felt their oganizations were The problems encountered faculty or student run and often could only be solved by whether they requested Student rigorous attempts at compromise, Tax or school funding. If these which at times left organizations organizations felt that they we·re disappointed and feeling that they run by thi! faculty and requested had been singled out for school funding, then David discrim~natory actions. These Eilbott, Chairman of the Joint contentw~s, I assure you, are Planning and Priorities-Student. totally Without merit and should Tax Committee, would present a. THE 1980 FRESHMAN RECORD Will be holding an organizational meeting for all students interested- in any phase of its operation including photography, layout, thinking, typing, etc. MONDAY- FEB. 9 AT 7:30P.M. In The South College First Floor Lounge be considered as merely a reaction to monetary allotment, which is inherent in budgeting anywhere. Union College is certainly not unique ,in these times, when seve.re cutbacks must be made in services which are undeniably worthy ventures. This year unprecedented requests had to be met in order for certain activities to continue to exist. This brought the budget crisis to the forefront. I refer specifically to $41,000 appropriated to the Mountebanks, WRUC, Social Committee, and the Speaker's Forum, money which· if not appropri·ated would have destroyed the fabric upon which these activities are built. During o u r meet i'n g s w it h the s·e organizations we attempted to cut all fringes from their- budget requests, while still enabling them t()o.perate at a feasible level. This pr'?cess in and of itself placed a tremendous burden on the remaining .student tax funds which are not specifically equipped with the flexibility which these enormous expenses call for. The pro_blem, however, is clear CQntinued on Page 10 Union Pharmacy 600 Union St. Men & Women Student Needs \ 374-3605 -- - ....... Student Forum and Student Life Committee·· back-ezl Apathy Stud_v group encounters first obstacle ... Student Tax faces campus by DAVID MOSKOWITZ The Student Tax Committe·e faced the campus Monday night in order to present an explanation of their controversial budget mix- up and to reveal their proposed cuts. Four students attended. The meeting had been intended to serve as a forum for anyone wishing an explanation of the recent tax \misunderstarrling\ which necessitates massive budget cuts. T.he Tax Committee had been expecting an appearance at the meeting by those responsible for. petitions that have been circulating, but these individuals were not present. The petitions called for Tax Committee exclusion from any other activities, a practice Tax Committee member Arnie Hiller called \stupid. Why should Tax Committee members be penalized just because they're on the Committee?\ Chairman David Eilbott expressed his disgust at the lack of student attendance at the meeting, \It just shows that people were just mouthing off - and that they really don't care.\ The Committee made $21,555 of budget cuts in order to reduce ACTIVITY Big Brothers BSA Perspective Cabar.et Campus Voice Coffeehouse College Center Concordiensis Course Evaluation Film Committee Idol IRC !SA Men's Glee Club Dance Workshop Mountebanks Orchestra Outing Club Photo Society Political Forum Pre-Law Ski Team Social Committee Speaker'sForum Union Book Women's Glee Club ·-.- their deficit. These cuts included a policy of eliminating all student- paid dinners for speakers, all munchies and a general cutback in supplies. All Mountebanks' productions will charge $.50 admission, as will the Film Committee, The Campus Voice will appear monthly as will Perspective. Several speakers were eliminated from clubs, as were two Coffeehouse performances. While th'ese cuts brought several organizational budgets to the bare minimum, only one club was eliminated entirely. Linebacker, the student course evaluation, was felt by Eilbott and the Tax Committee to be a \useless. commodity without grades.\ The Mountebanks were presented with a $450 fine for \misuse of funds,\ having purchased lighting equipment without Committee approval. Despite the cuts and the controversy over · ovebudgeting, no student managed to attend the meeting to hear the Committee's views, prompting a possible . resignation by one member. AMOUNT CUT $50 720 700 100 • 1720 !50 1000 1260 480 1600 2ooq 1500 250 500 100 1500 100 125 so 500 400 200 4000 1250 1200 100 ;•••••••••••••••••••••••r Mauric.e B.· Gra~.bart & Sons FOB UQUOR AND W{NE = FILM . LENNY = =COMMITTEE = I ! PRESE~T~ '\ s~~~~;~-~~ 7 ~?,;it. = . ; • ..!/ .~:.l ·'- ,,r 't,. ·::· :.:: ~:·: ·~L~oo~; ;,-\ ;,._ .·1~ i( .\loi~4b~'t' \'~ .. ~ \ • .!\:~!, _ .... ~&..;.... ,QJ. -:~ .,-.t- ·~-•:; .,.~. 'Setving Union For Three Generations' 1.66 Jay St. , .... ~aUty Service & • Fine Work..-anshlp · \ ., ~ ~ \'·~~~ ~-~ ·'(lo •• ~.~.if~ '*~ .. \ , Try JJce - Lip$tein 's ! ' ' ~ .... , . ., ... ~1-····----·- ............... 1('\ HERSHEL .dAURICE B .WALTER

' ' Page4 CONCORD!ENSJS, Wedne$day, Feb. 4, 1976 Mounties: - ''Such stuff as dre,am.s are 01a·de of\ by WENQY SOLO VA Y Perhaps it is because it is the last play wholly written by Shakespeare that audiences have always been so enthused about it. Or perhaps its intrigue lies in the contention that Prospera's breaking of his magic wand is synonymous with Shakespeare's bidding farewell to his art. In any case, The Tempest will be brought to life in the Nott Memorial in only a few weeks. What is so special about The Tempest is Shakespeare's deliberate mixture of simplicity and complexity. Certain characterizations, for example, appear simple: Prospera (portrayed by John Rose) is wise and dominant, Miranda (Barbara Fraser) is pure, and Caliban (Bernard Carey ) is base. On the other hand, the characterization of Ariel (Jody Stollmack) is extremely complicated, as it reveals much poetic language laden with the subtlest metaphors, paradoxes, and analogies. In addition to the very well thought-out characterizations and relationships evident in The Tempest, one also notes how the elements of plot, theme, and character are linked so wonderfully. Shakespeare's emphasis on the theme of order in nature is expressed throughout his play with the result being tha'l the most admirable characters. Vietnam: .... A silent statement by SUSAN DRAPER The Union Gallery will be staging the photographic exhibit Vietnam: A Photographic Essay Of the Undeclared War in Southeast Asia February II th · through March 3rd. Financing of this exhibition was made possible by the Krusey Fund, set up by a former trustee to be used by the Music and Arts Departments. Vietnam: A .Photographic Essay of the Undeclared War in Southeast Asia is a convincing series of photographs documenting the brutality and the hardship of the Vietnam War. Many of the photographs are familiar, having previously appeared in Life magazine. Originally conceived liy 25 year old, Capa Award-winning, Life photographer John Olson, it is the .work of 9 of John's colleagues reported missing or killed while recording this ugly war. The photographers include Hiromichi Mine, Dana Stone, Henri Huet, Larry Burrows, Charles Eggleston, Kent Potter, Sean Flynn, Kyiochi Sawada, and Robert E. Ellison, Reflected in the photographs is the danger and misery these photographers constantly exposed themselves to. The over-riding reason for their personal dedication was to \make people confront the reality of the war.\ As was said of Larry Burrows, one of the photographers reported missing in action, ''The war was his story. His dream was to stay until he could photograph a Vietnam at peace.\ Unfortunately, this dream was never realized by him or any of his colleagues. The photo-essay stands as a final tribute to these dedicated photographers in that it represents their best efforts. The 'exhibit wiU open on Wednesday, February lith at 8 p.m. Wine and cheese will be served. Vietnam phot~. e~hib~t' op~Hs at Union Feb. J.J •• · •. I I I~\( • ' ... .t!. ·.;' like Ferdinand (Bruce Cohen) and Miranda, can talk about and perceive order in disorder. This is due to their capacity for wonder, which is created through the combination of several genres - tragicomedy, pastoral. romance, and masque. Everything in life can be wondered and marvelled at; as Prospera says, \We are such stuff as dreams are made of'. lt is through the illusions and the complexities of the play that the characters come to understand reo.ality. lhese fantastic elements also clarify the audience's sense of reality. Shakespeare's integration of order in diso.rder, of dreams in reality, and of insanity in sanity serve to heighten the audience's realization of the thin line that divides these states, \We shall all be changed in a moment, in the twinkling of an eye\. The Mountebanks and the cast and crew of The Tempest would like to invite all of you to share some of that fantasy I reality with use. Oening night is set for February 27, and the play will run from February 27 until February 29, and then again from March 3 until March 6. inclusive. . - The Union College Film Committee Presents THE AFRICAN QUEEN Tues. 7, 9, 11 SOe 1 empest rehearsals reach peak as premier nears. Organ and Voice Mezzo-soprano Nancy Jo Davidsen and organist Hugh Wilson will present a \Program of Music for Organ and Voice\ at Union CoHege on Sunday, Feb. 8, free of charge to the College 'community. The program, which will be at 4 p.m. in Memorial Chapel, includes four choral-preludes by Johann Sebastian Bach: \Now is the Old Year Gone,\ \In Thee is Joy,\ .. To God Alone on High Be Praise,\ and \Prelude and Fugue in E Minor.\ In addition, the pair will perform \Cantata for Mezzo- Soprano,\ by Padre Jose Pradas, \Chant de Paix\ by Jean Langlais, and \Dieu Parmi Nous (le Nativite)\ by Oliver Messiaen. CABARET THURSDAY, FEBRUARY 5, 1976 Shows at 9:00 and ll :'00 P.M. Tickets on sale at 8:00 in Carnegie GABARET PRESENTS lET'S MAKE A. DEAL : . ' Featuring GARY LEVINE, MATT BRIEF AND NANCY FELDMAN Hundreds of dollars in prizes will be traded away. Contestants are asked to come in costume and to bring something to trade. CABARET thanks the following downtown merchants who made this show possible through their generosity. Time Center Jewelers Fox and Murphy Sporting Goods . Lipstein's Liquor Store Ace Card Co. Moffett's Liquor Store The Open Door The Next-to-New Shop Bicklemann Jewelry The Union College Bookstore The Jolly Tiger Maurice Grauban and Sons Jewelers Union Book Co. Orion Hickory Farms Burns Photography lnc. Mephisto Enterprises, Inc. The Union College Coffeehouse The Union College Film Committee Luigi's Restaurant The Union College Speaker's Forum Carl Co. John J. Gallo Florist Rosendale Rusehuitto Florist Saga Food Service Ferro's Pharmacy Mother Ferro's Restaurant THIS WEEK'S INTELLECTUAL CABARET - INNER AND OUTER SPACE- Monday, 8:30 > • . .. ' ' . ' . . ' . • • . \ • • - far SOl fm sa) wr wr th( da in< cer

.. . 4 ' ' . . . . ;;·~-~ ... .t . ; • • CONCORDIENSIS, Wednesday, Feb. 4, 1976 Page 5 ----------~~--~--------------------~~-- arts:: Women in the Arts: Who is Helga Prichard? John Martin once stated a famous ancient truth that went something like this: \People have found that when they could not say something, that they would write it, and when they could not write it they would sing it, and if they could not sing it they would dance it.\ Helga Prichard is one individual who is trying to get a certain group of fifteen or twenty by MICHELLE ARONSON students to express themselves through dance. She is the modern dance instructor here at Union College. - Born i~ Germany, Helga unfortunately did not have a chance to begin practicing dance there. \I always wanted to,\ ·.she said, \but never had the chance.\ The war kept her outside. Instead she played on team sports. The photo bv Grel'. Cohen reason: \Movement is a ,must,\ she stated, \and the body needs it.\ Thus, her dancing career began rather late ,in life. It started off only as a hobby, right here in Schenectady, by taking modern and ballet classes. From hobby to profession, dance has become a major segment in Helga's life. She now teaches at Union, Schenectady .~ Commtmity CoHege, and at the Saratoga Arts Workshop. Ms. Prichard may have changed her technique and approach from \team sports\ to dance, but her philosophies have not altered. Her informally- run classes reflect her attitude towards dancing - \Dance should be fun. ~ Movement with a goal,\ and t \One should use the 'y.ou· and -' body as a creative thing.\ e Her goals for the modem dance E ,~~~~ ~} ~~i~~o~~= i~~~~~e~i~~~ l beginners and dance is probably only a secondary concern or interest, she is not a stickler for perfecting technique. Her concern is to teach them I<> \explore their Continued on P~ge 10 • Ms. Susanne Frisch Costumer dresses up Mounties Severa:J weeks ago, Susanne Frisch, professionai costumer from New York City, -came to Union. Upstairs at Nott Memorial, she is busily at work on costumes for The Tempest. Sue· receive~ her- B. A;· from THE ·nter A RR ~. 'E Come to the Winter Olympi(sl S In the Achilles Rink on Feb. 6, starting promptly at 7:00 P.M., members of the Glee Club will lead the spectators in the Union alma m.ater. Following shortly, the finalists in the Iced Tug of War will face off at center ice. Then, make sure - you sit your fraternity, dorm or faculty group together; for when your skater hits the ice for the obstacle course there win be a keg of beer for the rowdiest (noisiest), and most original cheering team. Finally with all the excitement and finesse of a hockey game, the All-Star Student-Faculty Broomball game will commence. To highlight this event, the \Voice of Union Broomball\ ·will be Pete Sobol, the ren~wned sportscaster. So come to Achilles Rink on Friday night. Your Union I.D. is all that is required for entrance. ' ~is suggested that for the skating and snurfing party at the Girling Center, if you mtend to rent skates, wait since the ice is questionable at this point. Tic;kets for the Ball and reservations for the Dinner are going fast. Get to Student Activities quick! . ' • by FERN FLOMENHAFT Queens College in 1974. A drama and theater major, she specialized in costume design. She has worked on costumes for Eroadway productions, and is a successful costumer for major costume houses in New York. \A costumer's job is to interpret sketches in three dimensions.\ Sue discovered her talent in the area of costume ·design as a result of an earlier interest in sewing her own clothes. She later became interestt>d in fabrics and .weaving. Disc~ssing the problem orJobs in New York, Sue stated that \A costume designer in New York is lucky to get a fee and it is not unusual for the salary of a costumer to be the leftovers of the costume budget.\ But· Sue will not give her talents away .. She has found that it is much too painful to take a non-paying job for the sake of her resume. Yet she has been exceptionally lucky in her work. In her words. \I work at what I enjoy. 1 feel very fertunate and I'd rather be broke for a while than do something I don't like.\ Yet Sue does not know yet what she wants to do in the future. \I'm a hedonist\ she says. ••1 choose thethingsthat I like and I pursue them. I'm amazed at the freshmen here who already know what they want ... Working is important to me. Inever want to feel trapped, and I empathize with those who are trapped by their work and grow to hate everything that relates to it.\ Sue was glad to leave New York to come to Union.\Working in New York is unrealistic in some ways. Sure, New York is a major art center, but there are other things elsewhere, like working here.\ She loves New York, but hates parts of it. \I like to forget the hostile agress_ion vou must never forget in New York ... I like b\!ing . vulnerable ... Real art, is to be shared and respected, and not coveted .. \ When asked about the book she was reading (she had been reading The French Lieutenant's Woman); she stated· that she was most impressed by the strength of the heroine (Sarah). \the study of women in literature fascinates me, especially because literature has so long been dominated by males.\ Strength, consciousness, conviction. Sue works hard to uphold these values that she most cherishes. When asked how she might express her highest value, she responed without hesitation, \I like myself'. Akstens dazzles small audience by JOHN GLOVER Friday night witnessed a fine display of talent as the coffeehouse presented Tom Akstens and Les Goldstein. Playing the middle set, Les showed his usual prowess and ability in picking out his own arrangements of both pretty and more vibrant tunes. Tom Akstens played two excellent sets of guitar, banjo, and fiddle encompassihg folk, contemporary, blues, and country music intertwined with wittv stories of. personal experienc( Living downstate, near Woodstock, Tom has just finished cutting an album on the Takoma label,'( notable for John Fahey, the \protegee\). Regrettably, no more than 20 students attended. Although not an average figure, the coffeehouse has seen a continual decline in the size of its audiences and an almost total attrition of its· staff. Ruth Rappaport, the person behind the scenes .• works hard (and often alone. save only (or the presence of the ever important sound-man) to set up and tear down Old Chapel each Friday, to order and pick-up the .tecessary supplies, and to procure the best talent available. Coffeehouse is a good time and . is. for .tJ:lc;. eqJ9Y!llePt pf ~!Very one. t~iiui-s~r guitarist and founder of ~~l'llll,..,_if'.lijjl'illiiijlllfi\'fllrli~~~Qg-w~lii.A~~~W~~Jiwft.A~~i;;lw~~.-..~· Takoma; and Leo Kottke, his Ruth welcomes all offers of talent or suggestions for future performers (c/o Student Activities).

Page6 violence • on 1ce Last Wednesday night's Union-Buffalo hockey game left a sour taste in my mouth. The referees lost control of the game; the officials should have stopped pla-y when flagrant violations were committed, but did not. Hockey is an intense game, and when penalties are not assessed, tempers tend to become heated. This only leads both teams to retaliate with \cheap shots,\ and consequently one or more fights usually erui?t.. The beauty of hockey becomes_ lost. l'nstead of puck finesse and perpetual motion, the contest matches flying elbows against brutal cross checks. The game turns into a sloppy spectacle for both players and fans. They might as well take the skates. off, and join Ali and Foreman ringside. • . ' • Hockey has to keep violence such as that which occurred against Buffalo off the ice. Hockey is a rough game, but there are limits. The sport cannot resemble a tea party, but at the same time the jungle violence must be controlled. Immediate suspension from the .game should be the penalty for any player who uses the hockey stick other than for directing the puck. The sad part is that fighting attracts fans. Arenas fill up with unsophisticated fans just to see such and such a team attack one another. . .. Cut out the other stuff, and play the game as it should be played. Unless this violence ends, someone is going to be seriously injured as a result of a stick swingout. If you want to be the big bully, take yourself outside of the rink and into some alley. Hockey doesn't need your type. - CAF .•. ,. .. . tennis, anyperson? Is the Union College Sport~ Uepartment truly concerned with the expansion of womens' sports on the intercollegiate level? In the wake of Title IX (which states ••equal opportunities\ must be available to members of both sexes in the area of athletics), it seems apparent that they should be. Legal·ly, Title IX does not actually have to be implemented by the Athletic Department until July 21st, 1978. However, the deletion of the women's tennis team in the spring term represents a step backward from that goal. ... ~ '... ..: ,- ... -:: ·;-.··-~ ·. ·· Editors, Coneordensis: t · ·, must state that t·· · am· exttimtely <tnl10Yed and -upsetwitti . \ Player models latest in winter hockey attirt. ·. · -·. the ~·ecnnr.e 15i¥sement of the\ '. ····have'·' .. tarated· to .. the'.· · r:ati.oll(';£,.., •• ~~!:1~··~··; ... }~Jl~.~': .. j!sJ~~l!.~~~rble. t~: .... Reasons for the lack of women's tennis in the spring, given hy Bruce Allison. head of the Athletics Department, are mainly two-fold. He cited the lack of facilities available to accommodate the women's and men's tennis teams during the same term. Another problem, according to him, was the \opportunity cost\ of the women's tennis team. Apparently, there had heen complaints made to Professor Kershner of the Athletic Committee that team tennis tied up the courts for too long. Last spring, however. men and women's team practice coincided without conflict. With the addition of lights this year. court time should be even further extended for the College community. . .,h.·.H~ .. ··\f·· misreptesemutiun · 'O·f<· • my ' · · · ·. · · · · · · · 11\lttc~rn<tttg ··. the · Campus Voic-hich appeared in · ' ·.·· <:'O'ntinuew·olf·\'P~gtl\ to •: ,c: , · • • It is Bruce Allison's contention that the situation of the women's tennis team bears no relation to Title IX. His reasoning is that \the girls' temtis team is a mirror of the men's in terms of money, facilities. uniforms. and practice time.\ This is an accurate assessment of the women's tennis team in the fall. But an overview of the men and women's intercollegiate sports programs show that a; comparison cannot be made. In accordance with the ratio of women to men at Union, there are six women's intercollegiate teams offered, as opposed to twelve for the men. The scale of the women's teams is nowhere similar to that of the men's in terms of money, coaching. and necessary encouragement. In the past, the women's tennis team has drawn interest, enthusiasm, and participation. That interest should be sustained while strengthening our over-all women's sports program (in compliance with Title IX) hy offering women's tennis in the spring as well as in the faiL The future of the women\ tennis team looks dubious for · this spring term. Because of limitations placed by the NESC conference. the women's tennis team is only alloted two more matches to play this year. Rut women's tennis team still could be offered in hoth the fall and the spring next year. Review of this pos~ihility is being brought up, at the request of Bruce Allison. at the next meeting ol the Athletic Committee. All intcrco;tcd 'ihnuld contact Professor Kershner. head of the 1\thktic~o, Comm1ttce SHD · ...... Or:aper's articl!' last week · · t repettMiy ~tittefi ''that 'fuy · · · maj~r· argument fc;r ·es-ishing · Yaite was·tliaf''ff!S'' ~X&Sten6l!.\ would \broaden the 'tmWer 'base\· on. ~~rtt,P.q.s •.. l · ,e.\1 that J · · ·'hetrwea · tlit~ \ .~.· . \enaSie · 'ita;'\ larg~ percentage: of . indiVidu~l~ ·. an<£. o•pin~tts a.ccess :fi•tt'{ ·.newsprint.\ Lf>Wasquite unfairi~Jv· .. ~.:~· \·· that artiele to· state the Voi4!$· · · · · .;f<g. . . m· · ,. ·.cmnmunity •.•• · e: W~k ~~~ to, would '\... ·be a haven for '~desi!tl$'' and ch<Jiees shout~ .be . irietribef'S who ' have a \b(j:' .. < '; '·~htrokied'' ol(t .. ·jf· •c(jf)pef'ltiOfi· ifV · '' ' UtljtW';litl'ld •'$Up~rt·atnong wamen<. . f'' 'it>ic'Je· \>Vittlr 'C'~oo'.::Ofir·~ '~s'edit6 ... \' '''•\ ·::·· ();'mean.c .. anfifiing-,. .... 1::MR~,< \\\' ',· ·.at:~.ffion,.,ud';t\htnthat •wa;y.,,C.Ould · tesb'Ot1SitHfi1tv ·' T61 \<'thiS'· ......... ( ··. . .. ,,. ,., · .... · ·· · ·· ·c,.. · \'''·\· ':\ .... • .... .. · ·· · •• •· 1 ' \''~onsidered· i;a,·:g.teat .. su~ss.::'•'lt · jo.ur.tHI:listic ·baeksta.bbing; rnus.t · ·\ ' Jt:l$o. .seem,s... -to hav.e s~t\fed~· also be shared by t-1\e · ot some in Chief of C · ed'Hors\' \Vei-e · J;' . at . . reported Sttiaent FortH1't me6tin# and·· wm quite• ·aware of'?<':tne··· ·:qonteX~t in .which: ~\'.bU.JI~&4o ·~ , ' wuh .. the . . . . edttn.t&'' 'W~ ·· stated. · tllat <.?ut \sf· · •> ,.,, ·--~·-·; '1- :'\ .,, -.'\; ...:&

Page6 violence II on 1ce Last Wednesday night's Union-Buffalo hockey game left a sour taste in my mouth. The referees lost control of the game; the officials should have stopped play when flagrant violations were committed, but did not. Hockey is an intense game, and when penalties are not assessed, tempers tend to become heated. This only leads both teams to retaliate with \cheap shots,\ and consequently one or more fights usually eruf?t.. The beauty of hockey becomes lost. Instead of puck finesse and perpetual motion, the contest matches flying elbows against brutal cross checks. The game turns into a sloppy spectacle for both players and fans. They might as well take the skates. off, and join Ali and Foreman ringside. Hockey has to keep violence such as that which occurred against Buffalo off the ice. Hockey is a rough game, but there are limits. The sport cannot resemble a tea party, but at the same time the jungle violence must be controlled. Immediate suspension from the game should be the penalty for any player who uses the hockey stick other than for directing the puck. The sad part is that fighting attracts fans. Arenas fill up with unsophisticated fans just to see such and such a team attack one another. Cut out the other stuff, and play the game as it should be played. Unless this violence ends, someone is going to be seriously injured as a result of a stick swingout. If you want to be the big bully, take yourself outside of the rink and into some alley. Hockey doesn't need your type. - CAF tennis, anyperson? Is the Union College Sports !)epartment truly concerned with the expansion of womens· sports on the intercollegiate level? In the wake of Title IX (which states \equal opportunities\' must be available to members of both sexes in the area of athletics), it seems apparent that they should be. Legally, Title IX does not actually have to be implemented by the Athletic Department until July 21st, I978. However, the deletion of the women's tennis team in the spring term represents a step backward from that goal. Reasons for the lack of women's tennis in the spring, given hy Bruce Allison. head of the Athletics Department, are mainly two-fold. He cited the lack of facilities available to :-~ccommodate the women's and men's tennis teams during the same term. Another problem, according to him, was the \opportunity cost\ of the women's tennis team. Apparently, there had heen complaints made to Professor Kershner of the :\thletic (\)mmittee that team tenni-; tied up the courts for too long. Last ~pring. however, men and women's team practice coincided without conflict. With the addition of lights this year. court time should he even further extended for the College communitv. It j, Bruce Allison's contention that the situation of the women's tennis team hears no relation to Title IX. His reasoning i~ that \the girls' tennis team is a mirror of the men's in terms of money, facilities, uniforms, and practice time.\ This is an accurate assessment of the women's tennis team in the fall. But an overview of the men and women's intercollegiate sports prop:rams show that a, comparison cannot be made. In accordance with the ratio of women to men at Union, there are six women's intercollegiate teams offered. as opposed to twelve for the men. The scale of the women's teams is nowhere similar to that of the men's in terms of money, coaching. and necessary encouragement. ln the past, the women's tennis team has drawn interest. enthusiasm, and participation. That interest should be sustained while strengthening our over-all women's sports program (in compliance with Title IX) by offering women's tennis in the spring as wei I as in the fall. The future of the women's tennis team looks dubious for this spring term. Because of limitations placed by the NESC conference, the women's tennis team is only alloted two more matches to play this year. But women's tennis team still could be offered in both the fall and the spring next year. Review of this possibility is heing brought up, at the request of Bruce Allison. at the next meeting of the Athletic Committee. All interested \hould contact Professor Kershner. head of the Athletics Committee. SHD CONCORD/EN ·- ' I I • I l ' ' ' ' ,• Player models latest in winter hockey attir~. the backstabbers Editors, Concordensis: I must state that I am ~xtremely annoyed and upset with the misrepresentation of my statemen.ts concerning the Campus Voic-1hich appeared in Susan Draper's article last week (sic}. I repeatedly stated that my major argument for establishing the Voice was that its existence would \broaden the power base\ on campus. I stated that I believed this would enable \a large.r percentage of individuals and optnwns access to newsprint.\ It was quite unfair for that article to state the Voice would \... be a haven for staff members who have a 'bone to pick' with Concordy's editors .. ~ .. The responsibility for this journalistic backstabbing must also be shared by the Co-Editors in Chief of Concordy. Both editors were present at the reported Student Forum meeting and were quite aware of the with· th.~. be~t possible. journatis!l\.· . J ~till believe.thtlt tl'd& ~ooperation is possible, and hope that both · p·ublications: wHI work togetlu!r towaids the benefit of tbe campus instead of for the. benefit of themselves. s~~eteiy, Richard A. Siegel Editor's reply: Mr. Siegel, if you are as con~e.-ned with journalistic co~peraUon and responsibility as it s?ems, perhaps you should mal'e it a practice in the future to do a Uttle leg-work before you write. There was never. any intent at misrepresentation in Ms. Draper's article {had you cbe£ked with her, as you ·previously indicated you would, YQU W!.JUld have found this to be true). As the Forum's secretary at the meeting in question, she was simply noting one of tbe many points made. Still, unfounded generalizations about the editors' \desires\ and choices should be cheeked out if cooperation is going to mean anything.- MRA, DLM deep water context in which \bone to pick . with the Concordy editors'' was Editors, Coneordiensis: . stated. To quote that out of 1 was amazed to read the context was poor journalism. It is edi.torial entitled . \Prioriti:ea\ in furthermore their responsibility as last week's Contord·y. · ln this editots- ·to prevent this type . 0 f article the editor mention$ a faulty reporting and half-truths planned sports t::omplex which from being published. Tbe faqt would ~upplement the old gym. _that they allowed this article to be The~~ ts ·no such plan in the printed .. in that manner must works. What is needed and has reflect thetr desire to prevent the been· proposed is a sports Voice ftotn coming into existence. complex to replace the old gym. lt is unfortunate that they chose AHR mentions that the lit>l'ary is to resort to backstabbing. instead far from adequate. lf she feels of stating their opinion directly, that the library is inadequate I on the editorial page. would hate ·to hear what she It has been my hope that as would say about the gym. ,editors of two campus An alumnus who came here in we could rk l938 once ask-ed rne where the th lflJM\idl.} tl~fg iif ,;, : o;JJlty~l\: M'ih~!'!r.iJ ·told, it%~< he could'rt't ~lj~Ve: tHe pool w'dt\c() fro . adeq_uate over . . . yeats' agq . . Olmously A:H:R has never swam · in this }ioo1 which is never ·~\g'~\~~-. ·' or filtered ptopetly. Nor has ever dove (sic) 'off the board good' diver~ mi!St ·. wateli ·hi!'>.· Iieall or he will ~lose it on the ceiling!.·. .Nor bas she e-ver trie(f.tq: Cl;)mpete in thi-s pool vthich is a f:Q~tlonget • \ tllan reguhiticm. · · · lt is alSo ob-vious that AHR has • never been in the locker rooms or showers. The walls and floors of . the entire basement of the\ gynl •. ·~ have deteriorated to the poiil$ where it is impossible to keep ; . \ Continued on Page 10 name game · Editai's, Concordiensis: wo:inen's Week was created to' bring problems, ideas, and event•, ... concerning women to the attention of the entire campus community. The Week served to .~ help create a positive sense ot' un.ity and support among women· • at Union, and in that way could • be considered a great success. lt · . also seems to have serve~.· • ,; unf-ortunately,. as a topic of some arnllsement for Chris O'Connor. · 1 In his artide \What's ifi a, .. name'?\ Mr. O'Connor'· continuously stated that·· * se!llantics are \silly We must. ..• If admit that we find it di[ficult to · ;:' ull.derstand how a journalist-could·· : \ argue.againsLthe importance' of ., langUitge. As a former .editor o( < · this pap.et:, Mt. O'Connor should \ . realize that a good journalist is co;nstantJy faced with ·the tfi:.sk .·of 4 accutatety ·describing situations. anu to accurately describe SO'mething one must CQOStantly-' .· search fm the appropriate Vf..Qrds. , · · Mr. O'Connor went ort to state · that the \aite-ring of a label can· · \ never alter the contents of the. , jal\.\ What Mr. O'Connor failed:· to tea!ize is that by Alt,~ril1,l1 na..tne <me ~n altfi;r .

E:MS,TIJJ£edues<day. , Feb. 4, 1976 Pagel • .. attir::. ,sefi$e vromen·' · ,,tt. . . s~tved,. of some • • .. • Opinion: . . ' 1. 4, (- Of men, plans, gaps, and Surprises There was big talk a few years back about what was called the \credibility g~p. '' This famous fissure was said to ex:ist between what the . government told . the people and what the people believed. I suppose an example would be that if the President promised so many dollars less in t&Xes one year, with. a credibility gap rating of 05, one would believe they would save half that much in taxes. I suppose thatthe credibility gap approached zero as time passed, just like in Math JO; but as it did, someth.ing happened .. Why does no one ta-lk about a credibility gap any more? It seems that the claimed/believed Budget crunch: ratio is no longer a function (Math 10 again). There is now no predictable ratio between what we are told and what each of us will believe. 'Some people ha:ve met this credibility swamp by throwing in the towef, along with rules of logic, and believe everything they hear. ,Others have taken a more cynical approach and only believe the bad news. Still others have marked off days on their calendars when they will belie:ve it and when they will not. But there is another credibility gap which is rapidly closing itself to a credibility isthmus. This second g~p is the gap between by PETER SOBOL what w~ hear the government has been caught doing and what we are capable of believing that they have actually done. No doubt anyone who has read the recent headlines about indictments and convictions of public servants with nary a flutter of eyebrow would admit that these headlines, so mundane today, would have drawn attention years ago like a Ranger victory does today. Who would be surprised to Jearn that newspapers and magazines all over were throwing stories of ·governmental footsie back at the faces of hopeful Haldemans, saying \Look Jack, we want news!\ We .siblings under the laws of Minerva are indeed fortunate that great care is being taken to ready us for the various gaps which we will encounter on our imminent foray into the Real. Anyone who really believed that the Audit Committee had as much money as they originally claimed to have available for activity funding has not yet learned the lesson. All this talk about ignorance and mismanagement is most unfair; it was done for our benefit, to test our gullibility, and judging by the shock which many people showed on hearing of the supposed error, we did not pass the test. However, our rea~;:tion to the other gap has been quite favorable. No one had trouble believing that the student government had appropriated its own newspaper out of student tax money. But the next revelation will really test you. It seems that the editors of the Voice would like to bring the student ' government before the lordhigh · Conduct Ombudsman on charges of harrassment.We can only hope that this, tQo, is a mere myth, created to test our gap potential. If it is ndt, then the student ~government may prove to be a \worm that eateth of its own tail,\ and that would be a genuine shame. What would we do then for laughs around here? Chairman explains needed tax increase by DAVID EILBOTT The current crisis involving· Student Tax has occurred fer several reasons. ;Even though a mistake was admittedly made in regard to the anticipation of the amount of money available fot budgeting purposes, it should be understood that the overestimation of the money available was just that, an overestimation. In other words, the $40,000 which was mistakenly allecated, and the $20,000 which was· subsequently cut from the clubs, was simply never there in the first place. The net amount of funds the Tax Committee has to work with is $150,000 (2,000 stude'nts paying a $75 student· activity fee per year). Since we had budgeted almost $190,000 to ·the 38 activities currently being funded by Student Tax, the Tax Committee was left with the unenviable prospect of having to cut $40,000 from the budgets of· clubs in order to balance the . over-all Student Tax budget. The decision to cut back only $20,000 was made for several reasons. First, the Tax Committee felt that repealing $40,000 worth of allocations woulit result in cuts which would severely jeopardize the actua·l existence of many activitie>. In addition. the acti..,itie' v. hieh have the la·rgest budgets arc those which unfortunately have the least room for ha\ ing their budg.:ts cut. For example. WRuC received over .$9,000 more t:han last year due to their conversiOn to J-M; Mountebanb was allocated Opinion: $7,300 more than in '74-'75 since it needed approximately $6;000 in capital expenses (lights, equipment, tools, etc.), and since the actual cost ol producing a play increased over the previous year; th~ Spearkers' Forum, a new activity this year, was granted $15,000 to bring nine prominent speakers to the campus; the Social Committee was given almost $10,000 more than last year, due in part to the added expenses of both the Achilles Rink and the Winter Carnival. I he total ddlercnce in funding over last year for just these four acti,ities is therefore approximately $41.000. This figure could he only slightly reduced stnce WRUC needed all tl~ money to go f·M. Mountebanb had to replace its technical equipment, the Spearkers' Forum signed written contracts for a·ll its nine speakers, and the Social Committee needed its extra money in order to prepare the rink and produce the Winter Carnival. An additional factor was that 24 of the 28 clubs received less funds this year than last. This fact, when combined with the necessary funding of the four previously mentioned activities at a total of $41,000, resulted in decreased leverage for the Tax Committee to allocate funds The point is that the miscalculation resulting in the mer-allocation of $40.000 has unfortunately overshadowed a more significant limitation ol the ellectl\l:llt:~~ ol the I ax Continued on Page I 0 View from the top by MARSHALL WJSOFF trying to make hy the phrase \up here\ (Lord knows what he must As most of the campus is now mean wht:n he uses the term a w a r t' • t h e S t u d e n-t l a x remark has no place in I he context of a unified community. \You rub the sore when you :.hould bring the plaster.\ I his is hardly the attitude an admini~trator i~ expected to hold when a healing touch for the Student Tax issue is most needed. C . , ..... \down. thc.·re.\) I:urthermore. v.ho ommtttce erred .. ~'~ ~~the v.e rdcrnngto'! lhc !Jean ovcrhudgeting student acttvtttcs of Students'! by almost $40.000 As Whatewr the reason. such a {'oncordiensis rightly pointed out hlatantly callous (and careles~) last v.cck simple arithmetic yields a ~rending ceiling of $150.000, not including generated re;:vcnues or emergency funds. The question of individual responsibility falb in several quarters: I. How did the members of the Tax Committee arrive at their final figure'' 2. In the meeting hetween the Tax Committee and Mr. David Deacon last summer, did Mr. Deacon clearly communicate the correct figure to the Committee'} 3. Why did Dean of Students Mark Smith have no idea what was happening before the budgets were published in the January 21st issue of Concordy? Even in the wake of the cutbacks. however. it appears that all the student activities will still function this spring term. Admission prices may pop up for things that used to be free hut then again the whole country's supposed to be irt a recession. Ironically. the one person who seems least concerned about this money matter i~ the College lrcasurer. Dale Timberlake. When queried about the situation last week, Mr. Timberlake replied, \lim ts a Student Al.'ll\ tttcs mallcr and we ha vc nothing lo !>ay ahout 11 up her.e.\ Apparently no one ha\ hothered to e.'<(}latn to the t-reasurer the concept ot a 'college community'. I. tail· to . sec (he· distinl'ti~Jn Mt. Timhcrlake i-s umon college Concordiensis rDITORS·I'II-CH IFF ntt TI'Rf- 'iFWS-1-FAI t:RFS .. SI'OR IS. I.AYOl I _ <:1 ·\SS\111 [) PAGF. COPY o\RT CAl fl\;!)AR IHISI'IIrss I\1A'IIMiFR Sl'BSCRIPTIO'IS. 'lo\TIONAI AOS CO'i I R!Rtl TIMi FOI TOR CIRCTI ·\ 110\- PliO I O<IR o\PflY S I \IT 1 HI'\ 1'\St'l 'VIike Affinito. Oa1id 'v1<\ko\\ot7 . Sue Finkd,teon. Doan~ '\;eiM'Il .t\uure~ R.,th,l'hdd. Sue Drapa. Chro' OTnnnM Charlie F-lana~an . .!Phn Ru,tcrud. :\II~ nc Proce I .!n<'c' T '·'' '' Tndd '\1iller Phil ·\lcahe' I e•tcr Weo\ Shcr\ I Farher Rh,,nd;l Kaplan Shellev C.nld Ste'c Kellv .l,od P1tne\ Tnt' Cappurc••' M1hc Mark'. Tnm Welle<. D0n Hamer. m. Art Mo\ler. Rud.\ l u. [)a\'c (ioo\man. Llle11 Rudack, I c' Tra,htm.IO. J,,n: .R,,m,ona/11, R,,h \1nn<l-chein Kellr1· \i~utolll, Boll Peck. Rorhar.• \h\P\''· Ch,·r' I L1nkd RB Jh,lll. l,,r Cappurrio. fd '\Ienke. Peter SPhol. Dan Rt\c·nhaum. ·\rnit• Hiller. for· n.,rn,·nh.lft. '\;cal 1\ Srh\\artl .. Bill !len\'\· J,,n Schen. Bill PI~\'· !f,,pr f.1hi~n CONCORDIENSIS is published every Wednesday by the student body of O'nion College, Old Gym Hall, Schenectady. N.Y.; to which Postal Forms 3579 are directed. Publication~ Office: The Jewish World Publitations, 416 Smith St., Schenectady, N.Y. 12305 (370-5483). Entered in the Schenectady Post Office as Seco!'d Class Matter. Subscription Rate 35 ~nts per copy .. 58.00 a year delivered anywhes:e in'the United States •. . ' ' ' ; {'

. fJ{adnesday, Feb. 4, 1976 Page 7 ~--------~------------~--------------------------------------------------------------- ' I , . I . I . I ' ' ' . attirt rooms or floors of · the\ gyn! . il ·~ the poirl$ \' to keep to' nd event•. to the campus served to, sense of women· could lt · served,· of some in a, Connor' .. that· We must to' ·· · rtance' of ediwr o( should \ · · is t-ask of 4 describe ' words. ' to state label can· of the. failed: ,. ~ ~ !; ... • ,, ,. Opinion: Of men, plans, gaps, and surprises There was big talk a few years back about what was cal'led the \credibility gap.\ This famous fissure was said to exist between what the government told the people and what the people believed. I suppose an example would be that if the President promised so many dollars less in taxes one year, with a credibili·ty gap rating of 0.5, one would believe they would save half that much in taxes. I suppose that· the credibility gap approached zero as time passed, just like in Math 10, but as it did, something happened. Why does no one talik about a credibility gap any more? It seems that the claimed/believed Budget crunch: ratio is no longer a function (Math 10 again). There is n.ow n.o predictable ratio between what we are told and what each of us wil!l believe. Some people have met this credibility swamp by throwing in the towel, along with rules of logic, and believe everything they hear. Others have taken a more cynical approach and only believe the bad news. Stil!l others have marked off days on their calendars when they will believe it and when they wiH not. But there is another credibility gap which is rapidly closing itself to a credibility isthmus. This second gap is the gap between by PETER SOBOL what we hear the government has been caught doing and what we are capable of believing that they have actually done. No doubt anyone who has read the recent headlines about indictments and convictions of public servants wi,th nary a flMtter of eyebrow would admit that these headlines, so mundane today, would have drawn attention years ago like a Ranger victory does today. Who would be surprised to learn that newspapers and magazines all over were throwing stories of governmental footsie back at the faces of hopeful Haldemans, saying \Look Jack, we want news!\ We siblings under the laws of Minerva are indeed fortunate that great care is being taken to ready us for the various gaps which we will encounter on our imminent foray into the Real. Anyone who really believed that the Audit Committee had as mud1 money as they originally claimed to have available for activity fund.ing has not yet learned the lesson. All this talk about ignorance and mismanagement is most unfair; it was done for our benefit, to test our gullibility, mtd judging by the shock which many people showed on hearing of the supposed error, we did not pass the test. However, our reaction to the other gap has been quite favorable. No one had trouble believing that the student government had appropriated its own newspaper out of student tax money. But the next revelation wvll really test you. It seems that the editors of the Voice would like to bring the student· government before the lordhigh · Conduct Ombudsman on charges of harrassment.We can only hope that this, too, is a mere myth, created to test our gap potential. If it is ndt, then the student \'government may prove to be a \worm that eateth of its own tail,\ and that would be a genuine shame. What would we do then for laughs around here? Chairman explains needed tax increase by DAVID EILBOTT The current crisis involving Student Tax has occurred for several reasons. Even though a mistake was admittedly made in regard to the anticipation of the amount of money available for budgeting purposes, it should be understood that the overestimation of the money available was just that, an overestimation. In other words, the $40,000 which was mistakenly allocated, and the $20,000 which was subsequently cut from the clubs, was simply never there in the first place. The net amount of funds the Tax Committee has to work with is $150,000 (2,000 stud~nts paying a $75 student' activity fee per year). Since we had budgeted almost $190,000 to ·the 38 the term- · \cbai'l\person\ people become aware &f · the possibility t·hat the \one who presides\ may be a woman •. And once this is . realized it may, in . time, be commoaly accepted that women are capable of handling positions of r-esponsibility. By retaining the wo:rd \.chai:rn;um however, the expectation still remains of a male leader. · The ·Wotnen who changed the motto to \We All Become One Under the .Laws of Minerva'' were making. a very powerful point, they were saying that they do not feel included under the old motto. Especially in a school which is in a transitional stage from all male to truly co-educational, it does not seem at aU \silly\ for the women to demand that they be accepted as equals and not as a subset of the greater set of \brothers.\ if Mr. O'Connor would listen, he would hear that the Women's Caucus is arguing not only for a change in semantics, since they feel that the old motto is exclusive, but also for a change in attitudes. And by changing the label they hope to begin to change the way of thinking at Union College. Mr. O'Conrlor's article did have one positive side .to it; it showed that people at Union are thinking about what the women are saying. Hopefully people will not get too caught up in trying to think up \silly\ examples, such as \compersomnents and will work and try to make Union a. place where all a-re accepted as equals, as one. Sint~er~ly, Judy Dein Marjorie Kohn JO'>A.nne M~ssina 'h:•person' · revisited ·~ Editors; Con4:onlilmsis: The story is told 'about T.H, H u.xley that. after one of his lectures on the new ·theory of evolution, a respectalrle Vi-ctorian ,q~;;~~it~!ll , th.e · audience and enquired \on which side is the learned gentleman descended from .an ape'? on his mother's side or his father's side?\ The hall rang with atavistic, know-nothing laughter. I am writing this note to suggest that the laughter Mr. Chris ~O'Connor evokes in his criticisM of the semantics .of sexual integration in the Concordiensis of 28 January is quite comparable to the mirth which filled that English lectute haH almost a century ago. Both Mr. O'Connor and the nameless Victorian gentleman gain much of their effect by radically over- simplifying the theories they attack. The Victorian's jibe depended for its effect upon the failure to distinguish between ~;:ommon ancestors a millennium or so back, and immediate relatives. Mr. O'Connor's barbs gain their point because he fails to dhtinguish between ''letters\ and independent morphemic units. ln general, feminists who favor the reform of ordinary language so that i.t indicates a non-sexually discriminatory concept ua 1 structure, propose the substitutien of sexually neutral terms for sexually discriminatory terms in contexts where the latter function as \independent morphemic units. Thus they favor replacing such sexually discriminatory terms as 'spa<:e man' and 'space woman' wi1h a sexuajly neutral term, such as 'astronaut.' They favor no such. replacements in words where the ''letters\ spelling sexually discriminatory term~> do not indicate independent morphemic urtits. The point here is that although the letters spelling the ·word rat occur in the word 'separate', •rat' is not a mQrphentic element of 'sepatate' ~ separation is not, somehow, seman.tica;Uy rodentiaL So linguistic feminists are not obliged to worry about the ruan in 'wo~ah\ Mr should they be committed to rewriting 'human• and 'commandment' as 'huperson' aru:J 'comperondment' as Mr. activities currently being funded by Student Tax, the Tax Committee was left with the unenviable prospect of having to cut $40,000 from the budgets of clubs in order to balance the over-all Student Tax budget. The decision to cut back only $20,000 was made for several reasons. First, the Tax Committee felt that repealing $40,000 worth of allocations would result in cuts which would severely jeopardize the actual existence of many acti\ itic~. In addition, the activitie~ \\hich have the largest budgets arc those which unlortunatdy have the least room for ha\ ing their budgets cut. For example. WRL:c received over $9,000 more than last year due to their con\ersion to 1-M; Mountebank~ \\a~ allocated Opinion: $7,300 more than in '74-'75 since it needed approximately $6,000 in capital expenses (lights, c4uipment, tools, etc.), and since the actual cost ol producing a play increased over the previous year; th~; Spearkers' Forum, a new activity this year, was granted $15,000 to bring nine prominent speakers to the campus; the Social Committee was given almost $10,000 more than last year, due in part to the added expenses of both the Achilles Rink and the Winter Carnival. I he total difference in funding over last year for just these four activities is therefore approximately $41,000. rhi~ figure could he only slight!) reduced since W R U C needed all its money to go FM, Mountebanb had t{l replace its technical equipment, the Spearkers' F orun1 signed written contracts for all its nine speakers, and the Social Committee needed its extra money in order to prepare the rink and produce the Winter Carnival. An additional factor was that 24 of the 28 clubs received less funds this year than last. This fact, when combined with the necessary funding of the four previously mentioned activities at a total of $41,000, resulted in decreased leverage for the Ta.x Committee to allocate funds. rhe point ~~ that the mi~calculauon resulting in the 0\er-allocation of $40.000 has unlmtunatcly o\er~hadowed a more significant limitation ol the etlectncncs~ ol the I ax Continued on Page tO View from the top by MARSHALL WISOFF A, most of the campus is now aware. the Student I ax Committee erred hy 0\erbudgeting quJcnt activities hy almost $40.000 As Concordien~i-. rtghtly pointed out la~t \\cck simple arithmetic ytelds a ··rending c~~iling tl! S I 'iO.OOD. not including generated rt:\·cnucs or emergency lul1lk I he tJUe~tion nl md1\ idual responsibility falls in several ']Uartcr-;: I Ho\1. did the memhcrs of the I ax Committee arrive at their tmal ligure? 2. In the meeting between the la.x Committee and !\1 r. David Deacon last summer, did Mr. Deacon clearly communicate the correct figure to the C\>mmittee'' 3. Whj did Dean of Students Mark Smith ha\1: no idea what \\as happening before the budgets were published in the January 21st issue of Concordy'? Even in the wake of the cutbacks. however. it appears that all the student activities will still function this spring term. Admission prices may pop up for things that used to he free hut then again the whole country's supposed to be in a recession. Ironically. the one person who seems least concerned about this money matter i~ the College I reasurer, Dale Timberlake. When 4ueried about the situation last week, Mr. Timberlake replied. \I hts 1s a Student Acti\ tties matter and we have nothmg to :.ay about it up here ... Apparently no one has hothered to explain to the I reasu rer the concept of a 'college commumty'. I fall to see the distinctivn ·Mr. Timherlake 1s trying to make hy the phra~e \up hen:.\ ( l.ord knows what he must mean \\hen he me;, the term \Jov. n there.\) f·urthermnre. \\oho i~ the 'v.c' rderring to'.' I he Dean ol Students? \\' hatewr the reason. such a hlat<.ltlll) callous 1anJ carl'les~,J remark has no place in the context of a unified n11nmunity. \You ruh the sore \\hen )OU ~hlluld bring the plaster.\ I hi~ is hardly the attitude an admmi~trator 1s e:<~.pected to hold v. hen a healmg touch fur the Student I a.\ l~:,ue i~ nwst nt:edeJ. umon C do ., college oncor tensts rDrTC>RS·I'\;.('IliiT \vl1kc ·\lfnlit•'· {),11,J \I\'\'\\\ ( ·1·1 ll R I Su,· !· inkcJ,tt'Jn. !1J,ll1t' \.,·!\'\ '\f\\ S·ll \It· R l S ·\uJrc' R.•th,chdtl. Sue Duper. Chr\ O'CnnntH SPOR !.., Ch.Hiit' I·I,Jna~.Jn. l.•hn H1\teruJ. \II\ ne Pn.-c I ·\ YOl I I .1nce I r.l\ ,, Cl \SSIIII [) P'\liF lt•dtl \ldkr COP' Phd \kahe' -\R 1 I c'ter Wt'l\ C·\1 f>.;[) ·\R Shenllarht•r B\ISI'\;rSs 1\.f.\\\A< Sl' RSCR l PTIO\\S \\'\TIO'>;AI '\DS CO'\ I R I R I ' I I' (I F f) ll 0 R CIRCTI ·\l IO'\ PIIOIOGRAPHY Rht>ntl.t Kaplan Sheik\ (!,,ld Stt'\t' Kelh· .l.tt\k P1tne\ .lnt~ < ·arrtJccl(' M1kc !\Luk'. I nm Welle,, J),,n Hanwr. 111. Art M.tllcr. Rud\ I u. Da\t' Citn ... ,m;tn. (ire!! (\,hen. !\l1ke R.>tunJJ. Kt'\ln Sch.H' !lien R.ulaek. l .:' frJ,htm.tn. r,m\ R,>m.tnarll. Kt•llt'\ 'cv.t.,n. Rill Peck. Harhar.1 Sh.lp<r<'. C!lt'n I L1nkt'l. RR ll1.1u. l••c l'appltcnP. f't! '\Ienke Peter s .• h,,J. Dan R ..... cnt>;IIJm. ·\rOll! Hiller. !'err· 1\,omenh.tft '\;cal •\ Srhv..H!I. RJI!!len,.,n. J,,n S,h,·,-r. Rill Piau'. fl,•pe 1.1h1.tn CONCORDIENSIS is published every Wednesday by the student body of Union College, Old Gym Hall, Schenectady, N.Y.; to which Postal Forms 3579 are directed. Publication~ Office: The Jewish World Publitations, 416 Smith St., Schenectady, N.Y. 12305 (370-5483). Entered in the Schenectady Post Office as Seco!ld Class Matter. Subscription Rate 35 cents per copy. $8.00 a year delivered an~wheFe in'the llnited States.

Page8 CONqORDIENS!S, Wednesday, Feb. 4, 1976 Thurs., February 5 II :30 to I :30 pm, Iced Tug of War Preliminaries, Achilles Rink .. Fa s hi on and Cost u me lnterpreta~ion and Production: the fourth in a series of six classes will cover Clothing Construction Design: assembling and finishing. Classes given at 7:30 in the N ott Memorial Theater by Swsanne J. Frisch, Union's new costume designer and weaver. For more information call 370-6128 (centrex). Cabaret: Let's Make a Deal featuring: Gary Levine, Matt Brief, and Nancy Feldman. Hundreds of dollars in prizes will be traded away. Contestants' are asked to come in costume and bring somelling to trade. Shows .at 9:00 and II :00 pm. Tickets on sale at 8:00 in Carnegie. Abb\ott and Costello Meet Frankenstein 7:00 pm RPI Chapel and Cultural Center, 2125- Burdett Ave., Troy. 75© 274-7793. Coffeehouse: Highwoods String Band, traditional, 8:30 Lively Lucy's Coffeehouse, Skidmore College. 50© 584-5000. Larry Keen and Co., 8:30 Mother's Wine Emporium, RPI Troy. Fri., February 6 11:30 am to 1:30pm, Iced Tug of War Preliminaries, Achilles Rink. Winter Carnival Events at Achilles Rink start at 7:30 with the Iced Tug of War Finals. The Obstacle Course and Student- Faculty Broomball Game will follow immediately. Champagne Coffeehouse: Diane Scanlin, Old Chapel, 75 Q: 10:00 pm. Indoor Track: Union vs. Springfield in the Field House. Lenny with Dustin Hoffman and Valerie Perrine. Presented by the Film Committee in SSOI6 at 10:00. Admission is .$1.00. Please note the new price. A Farewell to Arms with Gary Cooper and Helen Hayes. 2:00 pm at the Schenectady Public Library. Admission Free 382- 3500. Coffeehouse: Highwoods String Band, traditional, 8:30 Freeze- Dried Coffeehouse, Assembly Hall, SUNYA, 1400 Washington Ave. Larry Keen and Co., 8:30 Mother's Wine Emporium RPI Troy. Stephen Wade: banjo virtuoso and humorist. 8:30 Caffe Lena 45 Phila Street, Saratoga Springs 584-9789. Sat~, February 7 Cross Country Race - At 12:00 the Outing Club will be running a cross country race for anyone interested, around the campus, starting at the Old Chapel. For entries, contact Judy at 370-6512. To warm the ears and toes of everyone, hot cocoa and donuts will be served in the Old Chapel ENTER ALL . -~ c·~---·;:;.:> at 1:00 pm, d11ring an afternoon of snowball fights, flagpole burying contests, angels and generai chaos. Get your posteriors out of the dorm or fraternity and come on down. Chug-ALug Contest 2:00 Jill. Support your chugger at Library Plaza. Candlelight Di,nner: reservations should be made in Student Activities Office, semiformal, 5:00 to 10:00 BYOB Hale House. Winter Carnival Ball 10:00 pm to I :00 am. Semi-formal, tickets in Student Activities, Ramada Inn. A wards Ceremony 11 :00 pm. President Bonner, Master of Ceremonies, Ballroom, Ramada Inn. Varsity swimming in the Alumni Gym Poot Union vs. Norwich at 1:00 pm. Women's Varsity Basketball Union vs. RPI in the Field House at 6:00. Lenny with Dustin Hoffman and Valerie Perrine. Presented by the Film Committee in SS016 at 7:00, 9:00 and I I :00 pm. Admission is $1.00. Please note new price. The Hoop Squad drills against Kings Point at 8:00 pm. Under the Big Top! Stephen Wade: banjo virtuoso and Humorist. 8:30 Caffe Lena, 45 Phila Street, Saratoga Springs, 584-9789. Coffeehouse: Highwoods String Band, traditional 8:30 Freeze- Dried Coffeehouse, Assembly Hall, SUNY A, 1400 Washington Ave. Larry Keen and Co., 8:30 Mother's Wine Emporium RPI, Troy. Babe Ruth born 1895. A word is not a crystal, transparent and unchanging, it 1s the skin of a living thought and may vary greatly in color and content according to the circumstances and time in which it is used. - Justice Oliver Wendell Holmes • ._ 1 ~ ' - )\. • I' .. l ' - l:: I . 'J. 0 • 0 Sun., February 8 Skating and Snurfing Party, Hot Rum and Cider served. Skates may be rented at AchiUes Rink if needed. Girting Center I :00 pm to 4:00 pm. ' Lenny with Dustin Hoffman and Valerie Perrine. Presented by the Film Committee in SS016 at 7, 9 and II :00 pm. Admission is $1.00. Please note the new Price, Amie Lawrence, J. Wilkins, P. Warren, R. Davis. Jazz. 8:00pm Ramada Inn, 370-7151. Fahrenheit 451, 7 pm RPI Chapel and Cultur-al Center, 2125 Burdett Ave., Troy 75¢ 274~7793. Stephen Wade: banjo virtuoso and Humorist. 8:30 Caffe Lena, 45 Phila Street. -saratoga Springs 584-9789. World Champion C.;ab Races Crescent City, California, Population 15000. .James Dean born 1931. Mon., February 9 Monday Night Cabaret: 8:30 ••Inner and Outer Space,\ a short film followed by discussion. Free. Refreshments. Intramural Hoop Game. 9:00 in the Field House. The Hicks vs A D Phi. It's a toss-up, folks! Rugby Club, organizational meeting, 7:30 Fox Dorm Lounge. Plans will be made for spring term. Elections will be held. New Players are welcome! WRUC Executive Board Me~ting in th~ station 'lounge on the second floor of Carnegie Hall. Anyone interested in discussing any area of WRUC is invited to attend. If you really liked Union's winter Carnival there is another one yo~ ca.n go to. Steamboat Springs Colorado. Population 4,000. It's thFough the Weekend>! Carol' King born 1943. • Tues.~ February 10 Fashion and Costume l'nterpretation and Production: The topic switches to Weaving: from Fiber to Fabric natural and man-made fibers processing inte yarn. Weaving techniques and · macrarne. <Classes start at 7:39 in the Not! Memorial Theater and are taught hy Susanne J. Frisch, Union•s new costume designer and weaver. For more information call 370-6'128 (centrex). The Student-Foolty Bridge Club will meet in the Hale House Upper Lpunge. All bridge players, regardless of ability, are encouraged to attend. \' $' • ... Calendar lnf(lrmation m1,1st be received ;by Monday in the Con- cordiensis Office or call Sheryl Farber at 31G-6480. Please i&.O - .• include all nec~s5ary information and a. brief d~ption ·of event. if you are p~anning an event 1111d w~ld Uke the rest ·of . the college coDitllWJity to knbw about it, .p~eae .... ··-·· ~ l EXIT.... BROTHERS I / . !!:)@ Students in support .of a United College • \ .. ~ ,, ~ n d • ~ • • • • ,. If \' . ~

PageS CONCORDIENSTS, Wednesday, Feb. 4, 1976 . . Thurs., February 5 11:30 to 1:30 pm, Iced Tug of War Preliminaries, Achilles Rink .. Fashion and Costume Interpretation and Production: the fourth ·in a series of six classes will cover Clothing Construction Oesign: assembling and finishing. Classes given at 7:30 in the Nott Memorial Theater by Susanne J. Frisch, Union's new costume designer and weaver. For more information call 370-6128 (centrex). Cabaret: Let's Make a Deal featuring: Gary Levine, Matt Brief, and Nancy Feldman. Hundreds of dollars in prizes will be traded away. Contestants' are asked to come in costume and bring someiling to trade. Shows at 9:00 and II :00 pm. Tickets on sale at 8:00 iri Carnegie. Abb~tt and Costello Meet Frankenstein 7:00 pm RPI Chapel and Cultural Center, 2125- Burdett Ave., Troy. 75© 274-7793. Coffeehouse: Highwoods String Band, traditional, 8:30 Lively Lucy's Coffeehouse, Skidmore College. 50© 584-5000. Larry Keen and Co., 8:30 Mother's Wine Emporium, RPI Troy. Fri., February 6 11:30 am to 1:30 pm, Iced Tug of War Preliminaries, Achilles Rink. Winter Carnival Events at Achilles Rink start at 7:30 with the Iced Tug of War Finals. The Obstacle Course and Student- Faculty Broomball Game will follow immediately. Champagne Coffeehouse: Diane Scanlin, Old Chapel, 75 <J: 10:00 prn. · Indoor Track: Union vs. Springfield in the Field House. Lenny with Dustin Hoffman and Valerie Perrine. Presented by the Film Committee in SSOI6 at 10:00. Admission is $1.00. Please note the new price. A Farewell to Arms with Gary Cooper and Helen Hayes. 2:00 pm at the Schenectady Public Library. Admission Free 382a 3500. Coffeehouse: Higbwoods String Band, traditional, 8:30 Freeze- Dried Coffeehouse, Assembly Hall, SUNYA, 1400 Washington Ave. Larry Keen and Co., 8:30 Mother's Wine Emporium RPI Troy. Stephen Wade: banjo virtuoso and humorist. 8:30 Caffe Lena 45 Phila Street, Saratoga Springs 584-9789. Sat., February 7 Cross Country Race - At 12:00 the Outing Club will be running a cross country race for anyone interested, around the campus, starting at the Old Chapel. For entries, contact Judy at 370-6512. To warm the ears and toes of everyone, hot cocoa and donuts will be served in the Old Chapel ENTER ALL at I :00 .pm, during an afternoon of snowball fights, flagpole burying contests, angels and general chaos. Get your posteriors out of the dorm or fraternity and come on down. Chug-ALug Contest 2:00 lill. Support your chugger at Library Plaza. Candlelight Dinner: reservations should be made in Student Activities Office, semiformal, 5:00 to 10:oo BYOB Hale House. Winter Ca~nival Ball 10:00 pm to l :00 am. Semi-formal, tickets in St1:1dent Activities, Ramada Inn. Awards Ceremony H:OO pril. President Bonner, Master of Ceremonies, Ballroom, Ramada 'Inn. Varsity swimming in the Alumni Gym Pool. Union vs. Norwich at 1:00 pm. Women's Varsity Basketball Union vs. RPI in the Field House at 6:00. Lenny with Dustin Hoffman and Valerie Perrine. Presented by the Film Committee in SS016 at 7:00; 9:00 and 11:00 pm. Admission is $1.00. Please note new price. The Hoop Squad drills against Kings Point at 8:00 pm. Under the Big Top! Stephen Wade: banjo virtuoso and Humorist. 8:30 Caffe Lena, 45 Phila Street, Saratoga Springs, 584-9789. Coffeehouse: Highwoods String Band, traditional 8:30 Freeze- Dried Coffeehouse, Assembly Hall, SUN¥ A, 1400 Washington Ave. Larry Keen and Co., 8:30 Mother's Wine Emporium RPI, Troy. Babe Ruth born 1895. Sun., February 8 Skating and Snurfing Party, Hot Rum and Cider served, Skates may be rented at Achilles Rink if needed. Girting Center 1 :00 ptn to 4:00 pm. Lenny with Dustin Hoffman aHd Valerie Perrine. Presented by the Film Committee in SSO 16 at 7, 9 and li:OO pm. Admission is $1.00. Please note the new Price. Arnie Lawrence, J. Wilkins, P. Warren, R. Davis. Jazz. 8:00pm Ramada Inn, 370-7151. Fahrenheit 451, 7 pm RPI Chapel and Cultural Center, 2125 Burdett Ave., Troy 75Q: 274!7793. Stephen Wade: banjo virtuoso and Humorist. 8:30 Caffe Lena, 45 Phila Street. -Saratoga Springs 584-9789. World Champion Crab 'Races Crescent City, California, Population 15000. James Dean born 1931. Mon., February 9 Monday Night Cabaret: 8:30 \Inner and Outer Space,\ a short film followed by discussion_ Free. Refreshments. Intramural Hoop ·Game. 9:00 in the Field House. The Hicks vs A D Phi. It's a toss-up, folks! Rugby Club, organizational meeting, 7:30 Fox Dorm Lounge. Plans will be made for spring term. Elections will be held. New Players are welcome! WR U C Executive Board Meeting in th~ station lounge on the second floor of Carnegie Hall. Anyone interested in discussing any area of WRUC is invited to attend. If you ueally liked Union's winter Carnival there is another one yol! can go to. Steamboat Springs Colorado. Population 4,000. lt's through the Weekend! Carol King born 1943. • Tueso, February 10 Fashion and Costume Interpretation and Production: The topic switches to Weaving: from Fiber to Fabric natural and man-made fibers processing into yarn. Weaving techniques and ·macrame. Classes start at 7:30 in the Nott Memorial Theater and are taught by Susanne J. Frisch, Union's new. costume designer and weaver. For more information call 370-6128 (centrex). The Student-Faulty Bridge Club will meet in the Hale House Upper Lounge. All bridge players, regardless of ability, are encouraged to attend. * *' * * Calendar infl)rmation must be recei\¥ed by Monday i\n th~ Con• eordiehsis Office or call Sheryl Farber at 3'l_tM~O. Ple~se iaelude ~II ...,e~y mfonnatlon and a. brief de.scription of e-vent. ir you are P!anning an event aud would like the rest ·of the .:oUege community to know about it, .p~eue ........ . ~ I EXIT .... BROTHERS J ~; . l ///,.,...... !!.:) e A word is not a crystal, transparent and unchanging, it 1s the skin of a living thought and may vary greatly in color and content according to the circumstances and. time in which it is used~ 1 .. , . , ,: • - Justice !J~~~er ·~~~~ell H~~mes ·. I • I ,.; ® @ 0 ' . ' ' ·~- -l.- .. ~~ •d\tr~ __ .. _.\ '} ........... !.. .......... Students in suppol't .of a United College ' . • • . ~. • '· ., <\:..-.o\.<il .. ,; ~ ·' .. .. \ ~ .. .. • .• '

' ., • • • • . . . \ . • d • • • • ,, .. •I ,. • ,, .. .. CONCORDIENSIS, Wednesday,. Feb. 4, 1976 Page 9 . . ,. . \ ' . ' ' ' . . .' '. '' :. ' ' ' ,, Iii 14riN15116 Seniors: Please check your mailbox every week! Important announcements. are coming! The Box Office of the Nott Memorial Theutre is looking for people to halp during the run of the Tempest. If .. you would like to get involved in tbe theatre while still· having time to do yo1,1r homework. ·come to the Nott Memorial (Green Room) on Fdday. Feb.,6 at 4:30: Attention A,ll Eyeglass Wearers! Don~t discard your old broken or useless. glasses. The•e are manv adults who can benefit from them. Ma~y of the old and needy clo not have suffiCient funds to buy eyeglasses. Through your help and the comqined effort of the Lions •Club, many of these people can .be supplied with the necessary frames and lenses. (Yes, even the correct prescription: believe ·it or not. you are not the only person in the world with your prescription.) If you are interested in helping in this cause, please contact: Ben Rubin. Box 103l.Rm. 170 Davidson, 370-6545. You can list your event on the WRUC Communit.y Calendar ·by either dropping the notice off at the station, or by sending it through campus maiL Items limited to Union College student~ will be announced hencefoFth on WRUC-AM at 640 on the A.M. dial. The next meeting of the Student-Faculty Brldg@ ·club will be held on Tuesday, Feb. 10 at 7:45 :P\M in the H;tle House Upper Lounge. The results of the last meeting were: First place: Profs. Goodheart and ·Bacon: Second place (tie): ·Pulling and Mannis &nd Sachs and Knickmeyer. rm Interested In buyl!lg a pair of. men's ice skates - either figure or hockey - size 9\12. If you have a used pair to sell, could vou please cdl·Paul at 346•9225? JANUARY 15, 1976 Tbe Classifieds Page of the New CONCORDIENSIS is primarily a student service; as such, all material submitted will be published FREE of charge. To insure that the items submitted are print~d, all copy MUST be in by Monday at 8:00 PM. Items to be repeated must have the number of runs specified. The Union Colle;ge CONCORDIENSIS assumes no responsibility for typographical errors, but will print a correction. If you want a ride, or you have something to sell, or you simply want to see something of your own printed up in a major world publication, PLEASE, don't hesitate! This is a FREE service, so take advantage of it. If you wish to submit material which conforms to the format of the Classifieds Page, simply slip it under the Concordy Office d()or (third floor Carnegie), or leave it with yours truly, Todd Miller at 224 West. Financial Aid Applica lions Applications fer all formr, of financial aid are now available at the Office of Studen.t Aid'; Ole Gym Hall. Students desiring renewa 1 .of aid as well as those seeking an original').':rant of assistance must submit applications. In addition to 1cholarship~. applications must be filed for Grant,in-Aids. College Work Studv, Boar<! Jobs and Loans. Applkations'for aid must he submitted no later than March 1. 1976. The State Education Dept. has announced the 1976 Competition for Earthwatch Scholarships. Winners are involved as apprentices in field research programs under the direction of seasoned professionals. Most of the projects involve field investigations and surveys in the natural sciences. -·e.g.. archaeology, anthropology, astronomy. biocl.ogy. geology. marine science and zoology. You do not have to he a student of science ·to participate in this program. They are simply looking for exceptional indi11iduals who demonstrate a keen mind, agile imaginat.ion, and a unique capability for research and discovery. Ap(ilicants must apply by February 18, 1976. For more information and applications come to the Placement Office. WANTED! Stratom11tic baseball players for season continuing through end of Spring Term. All interested contact Lance. 359 Fox. at Pn-6706. Books wanted: English 1'0 ~- Medieval and Renaissance: US History W - Colonial Period: and A Survey of Modern :Europe (1715-1945). Ask for Scott at 346- 9272. New Citizen Newspaper: Is looking for a student who would like some experience working on all aspects of a newspaper: reporting. editing. paste-up, layout. etc.: and also a student who would be interested in the advertising and soliciting of this paper. Please ·call Mr. Carl Saindon for further information ort 3 77-5524. A Til), the College youth organization of United 5ynagogue of America. will hold a Dinner this Sunday evening, February 8. 1976. It will be held in Temple Israel, 600 New Scotland Ave .. in Albany, beginning at 7:00 p.m. The cost per person is $1.00 for ATID memhers. and $3.50 for non- members, which includes membership (regularly $2.50). . Featured will he a great Kosher meal, as well as live entertainment, :Jsraeli style. For further information and reservatons, please call Steve Abelson. at 489-4039. The Basic Educational Opportunity Grant (BEOG) applications for the 1976- 77 year are available in the Student Aid Office. Previous recipients must file an application each year. New applicants. might wish to discuss the possibility of qualifying for an .;~ward with the Director of Student Aid. RlbES 7 1) RIDE WANTED to Florida around March 15th. Will split all cost>. Call Linda at 374-6700. or Candy at 372-0216. RIDE WANTED to Texas. any convenient date. Will share driving and expenses. Call: 887-2848. RIDE WANTED to Springfield, MASS. Contact Mike at 370-6507. RIDE WANTED to Geneseo, Jan. 30 (Friday afternoon). Contact Neil at 370- 6600, Interested In a ride to the College Park. MD-Washington. D.C. area? Leaving Thurs., Feb. 6: or Fri., Feb. 7 and returning Sunday. Have car-will travel. Send applications and resumes to I 07 Irving St .• or Box 1929 l)nion College, or call 393-2203 for an appointment. Ask for Ruth. Will ask compensation and request operating assistance. RIDE WANTED week of Feb. 6 - to Rochester. Leave: Friday: return: Sunday. Contact Rich. 203 South. at 346-2962. RIDE WANTED: Friday, Feb. 6 after 12:20 to Long Island. or New York' City. Will share expenses. Call Pete, 359 Davidson at 370-6579. TODAY'S CIISSIDRD PUZZLB Part-Time Jobs: The Placement Office has information on part-time jobs on and off campus. Stop in and ask at the Placement Office. RIDE WANTED to Manlius or Syracuse area on Friday. Feb. 6 or Feb. 13. Hoping for return on Sunday, Feb. 8 or Feb. 15, respectively. Contact: Carl, 218 West, ph. 346-9369 or 370-6143. ACROSS 1 Covered 5 Harmonize 9 Will'scousin 14 Kind of poem:Var. 15 Region 16 Infantile paralysis 17 Not vindi- ·cated 19 Odiferous oil 20 Picklejoints 21 Punta·-- Este 23 Gemstone 24 Kind of horn 27 Bathroom item. 29 \------ the Deep\ 31 Diversions 35 Obstruction 37 Garden dor- mouse 39 Antiknock compound 40 Sorrowful ward 42 Violinist's accessory 44 Geometric ratio 45 Spouses 47 Kind of alcohof 49 Recent 50 To a fair degree 52 UihQin!1 54 Large.B.C. . ,, sai(!),Pf.!. .. 56 Hates 59 \Green Man- sions\ hero 62 Favor: Prefix 64 Eroded 65 Massachu- setts seaport 67 Come between 70 Offspring 71 LiT<e'\- ---of bricks 72 Being: Sp. 73 Oozes 74 \lOU's\ rela- tive 75 Beloved DOWN 1 Unrefined 2 Kind of fabric 3 Combine 4 Evil spirits 5 Piecein checkers 6 Unstable desert region 7 Germ 8 Netherworld kingdom 9 Belgian community 10 Popular nightclubs: Informal 11 Utah community 12 Prevaricator 13 Man of high L~st week's punle ·solved: s A C s lA H A elL AIR lA 0 8 0 E' IE Iii· jf :n : A' tf R r· t 16 U A T . N E X ~ I N l .1 N iF ERST TRJ. SEllER R IE :r E S C 0 L D . R E E F A L E 0 IR A W ANGER FARGO ON[ :TEEN PUf EAst\\ C 0 L D S S T 0 H P P E 0 P l E A C T 0 N E R ,A iN G l 0 .MAN I A 0 G R E R. I 'l 'E y INIC I D E A S IOIE 18 Wine made from vinegar: Archaic 22 ---Angeles 25 Nostradam- us, for one 26 Wading bird 28 Imitate 30 Propounded 32 Artificial gem 33 Newcastle's waterfront 34 Killed violently 35 Depress 36 Winglike 38 Fatigued 41 Pay a bill: 2words 43 Senseof smell 0 s G A r. c: N S E N E S 46 Filthy place 48 Volume unit· 51 Slangy affirmative 53 Got as recompense 55 Of a geolog- ical era 57 Thick outer seed coat 58 Scoff 59 In statu quo: 2words 60 Foundation 61 Other 63 Cognizant of: Informal 66 French pro- noun 68 Infant 69 Chemical suffix SENIORS: PLACE YOUR ORDER for graduation announcements with Mrs. Marra in RIDE WANTED to Geneva. NY (between Rochester. and Syrl!cuse), Leaving Fri., .. .,, .StusJent, Acliyitks .... -· '· -· ··· •· ' · ·· ·>· Fel:l: 6 and returi'r1ng ·sunday, Feb. 8. Will' Election Infonnation: There now exists a vacant elected post in the student government which heeds to be filled. The Junior-Class Rerresentative to the Student Forum ·is this position. It is a two-year post and only present Juniors (class of 1977) are eligible to run. sign petitions of nomination. and vote. In order to run. a Junior candidate must pick up the nominating petition in the Student Activities office. have 105 Juniors sign the petition. and return the petition by the due date. Petitions are available in the student activities office. Petitions are due at the student activities office no later than February 20, 1976. An election for Junior Representative will be held on March 1. 1976. with a run-off. if necessary, scheduled for March 5. 1976. If you have any questions on this matter. call Howie Sowalsky. 372-5319. IRC: \Political Trials in Russia: Notes of An Ex-Soviet Lawyer.\ a talk by lurii Luryi. untii recently a member of the l.enin11rad bar and defense counsel in several political trials of dissenters and wouldcbe Jewish emigrants from the lJSSR. Monday, February 9th, Strauss Lounge, 8:00 P.M. All are welcome. Attention Students Summer Employment: If you are interested in a work experience program in entertainment .for an eleven week' session - June 13- August 28, 1976 lit Disneyland in California, please come to the Placement Office for further information. There will be a meeting held in the Davidson Lounge for . all those people interested in helping Fred Harris win the New York State Democratic primary. Thrusday. Feb. 5. at 12:30 p.m. All those who wish to join are urged to attend. For further information, contact Dan at 6521. All students who are interested in working in the Dutch Hollow (restaurant-pub) in any capacity should complete an application in the ·Personnel Office. Silliman Hall. as soon as possible. There will be a meeting on Feb. '10. 5:30 p.m. in SW JIO (genetics lab) for all pre- meds interested in medical, osteopathic and veterinary medicine. A meeting will be held at a later time for other professional fields. Rugby Club: organizational meeting, Monday. Feb. 9. 7:30 p.m .• Fox Dorm Lounge. Sprin!! term rugby will be· rlanned. Elections for officers will be held. New players are welcome. share expenses. Contact Pat at 370-6677. RIDE desperately needed by earnest. hardworking young man to Garden City. NY (Nassau County). or NYC on Thursday. Feb. 12 after 2:20 so he can look for summer employment during that weekend. He also needs a ride back on Sunday the 15th. Won't you help keep him off the bread line? Please call Pete at 6560. RIDE WANTED to Manhattan (or within a train ride from there) on Thursday night. 2/5. or Friday. 2/6 (returning Sunday. 2/8). PLEASE HELP! Call Paul at 346- 9225. RIDE WANTED to Plattsburgh, Friday the 6th of February after II :30. Phone 370- 6689. and ask for Andy Koerner. RIDE needed to Boston (Newton) leaving this Friday. February 6th, anytime is okay. Please contact Judy at 206 West. or phone 6613. RIDE WANTED for two to NYC: to leave on or ahout Thurs. Feb. 26. Call Jon. 372-9910. APts ROOMMATE WANtED: One block from the college. Furnished. Very close to the market. laundry. post office. bank. New and clean. Call 382\8560 or 372-8841. Ask for Alev. If I'm not in, leave your telephone number. · Female bousemate wanted for Spring Term in a congenial Wendell Ave. apartment. Five minute walk from campus. four bedrooms. two fireplaces (living room. back yard), inexpensive. Don't miss out on the joys of spring off-campus. Call: 377-4904. FOR SALE FOR SALE: Martin 12-string guitar. in excellent condition. Starting price $350. but will haggle. If interested, contact Prof. Reynolds. 370-6246. FOR SALE: Rossignol skis. ST 650's: 207 em.: ROC 550's: 205 .em. Both are in excellent condition and have Ramy (French) bindinj!s. Reasonably priced. Call 370-6608 before or after this weekend. FOR SALE: Various guitars. This week's special: jumbo acoustic 12- string. Guild thin-line acoustic-electric G- strinj!. Also repairs and maintainance on all j!Uitars. Instruction. All ~easonahly priced. Call 374-3621. FOR SALE: Texas Instruments SR-11 (electronic slide rule calculator). One-year- pld. excellent condition: comes with box. adaptor'charger. carrying case and instruction booklet. $50. Contact Chris Vilardi. 302 McKean at 346-9303. FOR SALE: Two 10 inch CTS woofers with polyurethane cone. Great for do it yourself speaker systems. Brand New. $40 for the pair. Call Mike at 370-6531. .FOR SALE: Audiovox 8 track stereo (FM) radio adapter. Fits into any car 8-track wstem: includes antenna and plug-in devic~. Like new. used for two weeks. $30. If interested, contact owner at W3-8239. FOR SALE: Sire 10 ski boots. LANGE PRO with Flo. Used' about ten times. List price: $150 new: will sell at $45. Call Dave at 882-9373 or 237-0785. FOR SALE: '64 Epiphone Wilshire. Good condition. Asking $175. Contact Craig 377-7107. LOST&FOUND LOST: a double-strand liquid silver necklace with brown beads. Great sen it mental value. If found, please call 370- 6763. LOST: from IFC Ball Coatroom - a French. blue-grey suede shearling-lined knee length coat. Reward! Contact Lori at 370-6733. No questions asked. LOST: lady's glove. left hand. Tan, vinyl: long cuff. If found. please call 374-3600. LOST - Male mutt. part beagle, name Tim. brown back. white chest and legs. brown collar. 6-8 months old, call 372-8935. FOUND: Gold Ringed Earing - if lost call 6570. LOST' .: One beige sheepskin lined stadium coat fro the skellar last Saturday night - contact Paul 3 70-6484. 251 Fox. LOST: one boys blue sock. If found, please return to Pete McMannus at Beta MJssmg person: Ulenn \Andy\ Wolfson, 5'9\. 98 lbs .. Caucasian. If found. please reiUI'fl to reality. I am a $6.000.000 man looking to have a good time with a $5 woman. If interested call Mr. Beef at 370-6729. WRUC reminds th~ entire student body that a rideboard is aired twice daily at 6:30 and 10:30 PM. If you are in need of a ride or rider. leave your first name and phone number at the station (second floor Carnegie). The success of the rideboard is solely determined hy the use it receives from the students. I know who hit my red Duster in the Fox parking lot last Saurday. Call me at 6118 or I'll be forced to kill you. There was an R.A. named Dufel. Whose kiddies were giving her hell. She yelled and she pleaded. But no warning was heeded. Oops! There goes the fire alarm bell .

• • • '· Page 9 .Clclsslfleds CONCORD!ENS!S, Wednesday, Feb. 4~ 1976 -=~~------~~----~~~~------~,--·--·.~-~.,~·\2~.~~~--~-----------·----------------------- ~- - ' I • Seniors: Please check your mailbo)( .every week! Important announcem~nts are coming! The Box Office of the Nott Memorial Theatre is looking fo~ people to halp during the run of the Tempest. lf· you would like to get involved in the th~atre while still having time to do your homework. come to the Not! Memorial (Green Room) on Friday, Feb ... 6 at 4:30. Attention All Eyeglass We!lrer!!! Don't discard yotir dld .broken or useless glasses. TheFe are manv adults who can benefit from them. Ma~v of the old and .needy do not have sufficient funds to buy eyeglasses. Thro.ugh your help and the combined effort of the Lions Club, many of these people can be supplied with the necessary frames and 'lenses. (Yes. even .the correct prescription: believe it or not. you are not the only person in ·the world with your prescription.) If you are interested in helping in ·this cause. please contact: Ben Rubin, Box 1031, Rm, 170 Davidson, 370-6545. You can iist your event on the WRUC Community Calendar by either dropping the notice off at the station, or by sending .it thro.ugl! campus maih Items limited to Union College students will he announced henceforth on WRUC-AM at 640 on the A.M. dial. The next meeting of the Student-Faculty Bridgf. Club will be held on Tuesday, Feb. 10 at 7:45 .PM in the Hale House Upper l.ounge, The results of the last meeting were: First place: Profs. Goodheart and Bacon; Second place (tie): Pulling and Mannis and Sachs and Knickmeyer. rm interested in buying a pair of men's ice skates - either figure or hockey - size 9Y1. If you have a used pair to sell, could vou please call Paul at 346-9225? JANUARY 15, 1976 The Classifieds Page of the New CONCOR'DIENSIS is primarily a student service; as such, all material submitted will be published FREE of charge. To insure that the items submitted are print~d, all copy MUST be in by Monday at 8:00 PM. Items to be repeated must have the number of runs specified. The Union CollE:ge CONCORDIENSIS assumes no responsibility for typographical errors, bpt will pr.int a correction. If you want a ride, or you have something to sell, or you simply want to see something of your own printed up in a major world publication, PLEASE, don't hesitate! This is a FREE service, so take advantage of it. If you wish to submit material whiclt conforms to the format of the Classifieds Page, simply slip it under the Concordy Office door (.third floor Carnegie), or leave it with yours truly, Todd Miller at 224 West. Financial Aid Applica lions Applications fer all form:, of financial aid are now available at the mfice of Studen.t Aid·; Ole Gym H a'll. Students desiring renewal .of aid as well as those seeking an odginalt£rant of assistance must submit a,pplications. In addition to scholarships. applications must be filed for Grant-in-.Aids. College Work Studv. Board Jobs and Loans. Applications. for aid must be submitted n0 later than March I. 19'16. The State Educati\ln Dept. bas announced the 1976 Competition for E;uthwatch Scholarships. Winners are .involved as apprentices in field research programs unde1; the .direetion of seasoned professionals. Most of the projects involve field investigations and surveys in the natural sciences, e.g., a·rchaeology, anthropology, astronomy, bioi ogy, geology, marine science and zoology. You do not have to· he a student of science to participate in this program. They are simply !coking for exceptional individuals who demonstrate a keen mind, agile imagination, and a unique capability for research and discovery. Applicants must apply by February 18. 1976. For more information and applications come to the Placement Office. WANTED: Stratomatic baseball players for season continuing through end of Spring Term. All interested: contact Lance. 359 Fox, at 37.0-6706. Books wanted: English lO - Medieval and licenaissance: US History 10 - Colonial Period: and· A Survey of Modem Europe (.1715-!945). Ask for Scott at 346- 9212. New Citizen Newspaper: ls looking for a student who would like some experience workin~t on all aspects of a newspaper: .reporting, editing. paste-up. layout. etc.; and also a student who would be interested in the advertising and soliciting of ihis paper. Please call Mr. Carl Saindon for further information on 377-5524. ATID, the College youth organimtion of United Synagogue of America. will hold a Dinner this Sunday evening, February 8. 1976. It will be held in Temple Israel. 600 New Scotland Ave ... in Albany, beginning at 7:00 p.m. The cost per person is $1.00 for ATID memhers. and $3.50 for non- members, which includes membership (regularly $2.50). . Featured will he a great Kosher meal, as well as live entertainment, Israeli style. For further information and reservatons, please call Steve Ahelson, at 489-4039. The Basic Educational Opportunity Grant (BEOG) applications for the 1976- 77 year are available in the Student Aid Office. Previous recipients must file an application each year. New applicants might wish to discuss the possibility of qualifying for an .award with the Director of Student Aid. RIDES l} RIDE WANTED to Florida around March I 5th. Will split all costs. Call Linda at 374-6700. or Candy at 372-D216. RIDE WANTED to Texas, any convenient date. Will share driving and expenses. Ca11: 887-2848. RIDE WANTED to Springfield, MASS. Contact Mike at 370-6507. RIDE WANTED to Geneseo. Jan. 30 (Friday afternoon). Contact Neil at 370- 6600. Interested in a ride to the College Park, MD-Washington, O.C. area? Leaving Thurs.. Feb. 6: or Fri., Feb. 7 and ;etuming Sunday. Have car-will travel. Send applications and resumes to 107 Irving St .. or Box 1929 Union College, or Cllll 393-2203 for an appointment. Ask for Ruth. Will ask compensation and request operating assistance. RIDE WANTED week of Feb. 6 - to Rochester. Leave: Friday: return: Sunday. Contact Rich, 203 South. at 346-2962. RIDE WANTED: Friday. Feb. ~.after 12:20 to long Island, ot New York City. Will share expenses. Call Pete, 359 Davidson at 370-6579. FOR SALE: Various guitars. Thi~ week's special: jumbo acoustic 12- string. Guild thin-line acGustic-electric G- strin!(. Also repairs and maintainance on all guitars. Instruction. All reasonably priced. Call 374-3621. ~OR SALE: Texas Instruments SR-11 (electronic slide rule calculator). One-year- 9ld. excellent condition; comes with box. adaptor'charger. carrying case and instruction booklet. $50~ Contact Chris Vilardi. 302 McKean at 346-9303. FOR SALE: Two 10 inch CTS woofers with polyurethane cone. Great for do it yourself speaker systems. Brand New. $40 for the pair. Call Mike at 370-6531. FOR SALE: Audiovox 8 - track stereo (FM) radio adapter. Fits into any car 8-track system: includes antenna and plug-in device. Like new. used for two weeks. $30. If interested. contact owner at W3-8239. FOR SALE: Si1e 10 ski boots. LANGE PRO with Flo. Used about ten times. List price: $150 new: will sell at $45. Call Dave at 882-9373 or 237-0785. FOR SALE: '64 Epiphone Wilshire. Good condition. Asking $175. Contact C'raig 377-7107 . LOST&FOUND LOST: a double-strand liquid silver necklace with brown beads. Great senitmental value. If found. please call 370- 6763. LOST: from IFC Ball Coatroom - a French, blue-grey suede shearling-lined knee length coat. Reward! Contact Lori at 370-6733. No questions asked. LOST: lady's glove, left hand. Tan, vinyl; long cuff. If found. please call 374-3600. LOST - Male mutt, part beagle, name Tim. brown back. white chest and legs. brown collar, 6-8 months old, call 372-8935. !ODAY'S CIDSSIDBD PUZZLB Part·Time Jobs: The Placement Office has information on part-time jobs on and off campus. Stop in and ask at the Placement Office. RIDE WANTED to Manlius or Syracuse area on Friday. Feb. 6 or Feb. 13. Hoping for return on Sunday, Feb. 8 or Feb. 15. respectively. Contact: Carl, 218 West, ph. 346-9369 or 370-6143. FOUND: Gold Ringed Eating - if lost call 6570. ACROSS 54 Large B.C. Covered , $31qtPI). v •• 5 Harmonize 56 Hates 9 Will'scous.in 59 \Gr 14 Kind of sions\ hero poem: Var. 62 Favor: Prefix 15 Region 64 Eroded 16 Infantile 65 Massachu- paralysis setts seaport 17 Not vindi- 67 Come cated between 19 Odiferousoil 70 Offspring 20 Pickle joints 71 LiRe·---· of 21 Punta--· bricks Este 72 Being: Sp. 23 Gemstone 73 Oozes 24 Kind of horn 74 \lOU's\ rela- 27 Bathroom tive item. 75 Beloved 29 ''------in the DOWN Deep\ 1 Unrefined 31 Diversions 2 Kind of fabric 35 Obstruction 3 Combine 37 (]arden dor- 4 Evil spirits mouse 5 Piece in 39 Antiknock checkers compound 6 Unstable 40 Sorrowful desert region word 7 Germ 42 Violinist's 8 Netherworld accessory kingdom 44 Geometric 9 Belgian ratio community 45 Spouses 10 Popular 47 Kind of nightclubs: alcohof Informal 49 Recent 1 1 Utah 50 To a fair community . degree 12 Prevaricator 52 LonRin~ 13 Man of high L~st week's punle solved: S A c s l A H AI ~cl L' AIR lA ·o 8: 0 E . rl\- iii· lr r~r 1f (J' R. f lr . !B IU· iA IT N E X T I N l I · N E. ERST .T R SEllER R IE .T I> S C 0 L 0 R E E F A l E D R A w SPA VIANO SIUAVE ANGER FARGO ()~ JEEN PUT EAST C 0 L 0 S S T o· M P P E 0 P I Fl A C T 0 N E R A IN IIi l 0 J'1 A Nl:flfi' 0 G R iF R II l E V N C. I 0 E A S o· E 18 Wine made from vinegar: Archaic 22 --- Angeles 25 Nostr.adam- us,.forone 26 Wading bird 281mitate 30 Propounded 32 Artificial gem 33 Newcastle's waterfront 34 Killed violently 35 Depress 36 Winglike 38 Fatigued 41 Pay a bill: 2words 43 Sense.of smell 0 s G !A IG Is N S E N IE S 46 Filthy place 48 Volume unit 51 Slangy affirmative 53 Gotas recompense 55 Of a geolog- ical era 57 Thick outer seed coat 58 Scoff 59 In statu quo: 2words 60 Foundation 61 Other 63 Cognizant of: Informal 66 French pro· noun 68 Infant 69 Chemical suffix SENIORS: PLACE YOUR ORDER for announcements with Mrs. .... ,, )\!\tlge.n\ Ac.ti_yities .. ·. . .. . • .• graduation Marra in RIDE WANTED to Geneva. NY (between Rochester and Syracuse),. leaving Fri •• ' --~ Feb.\ 6 and returi\lng'Sunaay, Feb. 8. Wfit' \'.•' Election Information: There now exists a vacant elected post in the student government which needs to be filled. The J uilior ·Class Representative to the Student Forum ·is this position. It is a two-year post and only present Juniors (class of 1977) are eligible to nm. sign petitions of nomination. and vote. In order to run, a Junior candidate must pick up the nominating petition in the Student Activities. office. have 105 Juniors sign the petition. and return the petition by the due date. Petitions are available in the student activities office. Petitions are due at the student activities office no later than February 20, 1976. An election for Junior Representative will be held on March I, 1976. with a run-off. if necessary. scheduled for March 5. 1976. If you have any questions on this matter, call Howie Sowalsky. 372-5319. IRC: \Political Trials in Russia: Notes of An Ex-Soviet l.awyer.\ a talk by Iurii l.urvL until recentlv a member of the Len.ingrad har and. defense counsel in severa I politica I trials of dissenters and would\be Jewish emigrants from the USSR. Monday, February !Hb, Strauss Lounge, 8:00 P.M. All are welcome. Attention Students Summer Employment: If you are interested in a work experience program in entertainment for an eleven week session - June 13• August 28, 1976 at Disneyland in California, please come to the Placement Office for further information. There will he a meetin~ held in the Davidson Lounge for . all those people interested in helping Fred Harris win the New York State Democratic primary. Thrusday. Feb. 5. at 12:30 p.m. All those who wish to join are urged to attend. For further information. contact Dan at 6521. All students who arc interested in working in the Dutch Hollow (restaurant-pub) in any capacity should complete an application in the Personnel Office. Silliman Hall. as ~oon as possible. There will be a meeting on Feb. 10, 5:30 p.m. in SW 310(genetics lab) for all pre- meds interested in medical, osteopathic and· veterinary medicine. A meeting will be held at a later time for other professional fields. Rugby Club: organi7ational meeting, Monday. Feb. 9, 7:30 p.m., Fox Dorm Lounge. Spring term rugby will be• planned. Elections for officers will be held. New players are welcome. Anyone interested in joining a Bowling share expenses. Contact Pat at 370-6677. RIDE desperately needed by earnest, hardworking young man to Garden City, NY (Nassau County). or NYC on Thursday, Feb. 12 after 2:20 so he can look for summer employment during that weekend. He also needs a ride back on Sunday the 15th. Won't you help keep him off the bread line? Please can Pete at 6560. RIDE WANTED to Manhattan (or within a train ride from there) on Thursday night. 2/5. or Friday. 2/6 (returning Sunday. 2/81. PLEASE HELP! Call Paul at 346- 9225. RIDE WANTED to Plattsburgh, Friday the 6th of February after 11:30. Phone 370- 6689, and ask for Andy Koerner. RIDE needed to Boston (Newton) leaving this Friday, February 6th. anytime is okay. Please contact Judy at 206 West. or phone 6613. RIDE WANTED for two to NYC: to leave on or about Thurs. Feb. 26. Can Jon, 372-9910. APTs ROOMMATE WANTED: One block from the college. Furnish(ld. Very dose to the market. laundry. post office. bank. New and clean. Call 382-8560 or 372-8841. Ask for Alev. If I'm not in. leave your telephone number. Female housemate wanted for Spring Term in a congenial Wendell Ave. apartment. Five minute walk from campus. four bedrooms. two fireplaces (living room. back yard), inexpensive. Don't miss out on the joys of spring off-campus. Call: 377-4904. FOR SALE: Martin 12-string guitar. in excellent condition. Starting price $350. but will haggle. If interested, contact Prof. Reynolds. 370-6246. FOR SALE: Rossignol skis. ST 650's: 207 em.: ROC' 550's: 205 .em. Both are in excellent condition and have Ramy (French) bindings. Reasonably priced. Call 370-6608 before or after this weekend. LOST .. : One beige sheepskin lined stadium coat fro the skellar last Saturday night- contact Paul 370-6484. 251 Fox. LOST: one bovs blue sock. If found, please return to Pete McMannus at Beta JWENAas s . ' ' . Mtssmg person: Ulenn \Andy\ Wolfson, 5'9•, 98 lbs., Caucasian. If found, please retum to reality. I am a $6,000.000 man looking to have a good time with a $5 woman. If interested call Mr. Beef at 370-6729. WRUC.: reminds the entire student body that a rideboard is aired twice daily at 6:30 and 10:30 PM. If you are in need of a ride or rider. leave your first name and phone number at the station (second floor Carnegie). The success of the rideboard is solelv determined by the use it receives from' the students. I krtow who hit my red Duster in the Fox parking lot last Saurday. Call me at 6118 or I'll be forced to kill you. There was an R.A. named Dufel. Whose· kiddies were giving her hell. She yelled and she pleaded. But no warning was heeded. Oops! There goes the fire alarm bell. Club to bowl other schools should contract FOR SALE: one pair semi•used WinnWell Len Zelasko a~ 346-9272 or 6114, . or 1661 Oo~ltend~r Ieg~ards .. Price': ryrst ' A late happy birthd!!Y to one of thJ! rou,r c~ntact Bob Dnscoll at 6119. A meetmg born. llJal~ :~hiJd.· 'Wtll hmlet ·.contact sexiest women of the centurv! Love fro!Jl w11l b~ held Thursday, Feb. 5 in the Aridy 7 :fQ5 ~d~ar~J;~l<·~~.J4;6-~$)~~·; ... '1!\;;.:.~.-J:r..:•· .~\.ilflitfoiUef'l11~. \\-\'or.·.-.·~ :r.,.,.\¥<ir .... , ' ' · Aluma!,G\m·~~:U)roqm. • ~\' •.\ ~ .. , • .,. ~\ :\':;-\'•··~. \\\ \!-•.::? • ~ • ~ '' \'\' 1t<'!:·~~;,;~i'..i:P:\;t~~~~!l:''i:S:~:~Ii'::~~ii::Zi!~!'\'1'. :j···•;;:;· .:'\m~~?'/~~F·t'3~·~ 1~ .. ~\'~-:-----~'il~.::1~:-'r 1~ fJ .. ._ ' . '

Page 10 \ ! ' CONCORDlENSIS. Wetinesday, Fe~. 4; /976 ·- - ·~·-·M .~ ... ~-··· . .. ...... . ...... ,. ..... ~·· --·-· ~ eme Breslin speaks: A good guy finally by KEVIN SCHARY Gut emotion came to Union last night in the form of guest speaker Jimmy Breslin. Breslin was not a fluid speaker but his message came through loud and clear. Breslin is high school graduate (after 5 years) from New York City, who decided to try and earn his living as a writer. After an expose on Casey Stengel and the early Mets he wrote The Gang that · Couldn't Shoot Straight which was successful on the screen and on the bestseller lists. After that he gained employment as a free-lance journalist for the New York news media. Many of his ideas and articles came from the numerous bars and pubs that bespeckle the city. It was in one of these hars that he and author- friend, Norman MaHer. decided to run for Mayor of New York City. Their admirable but ill~ Swimming Continued from Page 11 opening relay consisting of Tom placed third in the grueling two Richardson, Ed Corbett, Jim hundred yard butterfly. • arrives fated campaign gave Breslin his first real exposure to the smoke filled backrooms of politics. His concerned feelings led to him to become a journa-listic watchdog of our political system that culminated in his latest book. How the Good Guys Finally Won, or how Congress threw Richard Nixon out of office. He spoke of the racism that pervades our cities and the failures of our government and our leaders. His message was that it was our responsibility to give a damn about .problems and injustice and for every single person to do something about it, We the people, the educated masses. have an obligation to watch over our system . Helga and. modern dance Continued from Pa,ge 5 bodies\ and to view dance as \creative therapy.\ Remember, Helga says, \Movement is a must.\ ln the future, she would like to start a workshop here for those advanced individuals who are interested in working on technique and in seeing a \finished product.\ Chairman explains Continued from Page 7 ,. Committee. The $15.0,000 that the Committee had to work with would not have been sufficient to fund stl!ldent activities. The fact that many organizations would have initially been allocated funds far below their requests has been ignored in the wake of the recent controversy, this is disturbing. An increase in the student activity fee .is therefore essential in 0rder to keep pace with the ever- increasing demands of the activities (and inflation). This fee increase, though not retroactive, would hopefully become effective for the upcoming year. This supplement· would provide the needed funds for st1:1dent activities to operate at a Ieve'l beneficial to all involved. Lowe, and new addition AI Tom Richardson proved to be Hertzberg lost a close race. Doug a consistent winner by taking the Richardson captured the two hundred back while Tommy thousand-yard freestyle with Irv Burgess hung in and fought to Kaufman just missing third place. capture third place. Hobart took Hertzberg, after a short rest, took first and third in the 500 free wi:h second place in the 200 free while Union's Hertzberg taking second. Ed Corbett was touched out in Jim Lowe and Ed Corbett swept a the grinding fifty free and had to surprised Hobart in the two settle for a second place. Tom hundred-yard breaststroke. The Richardson brought home a first optional diving was scratched and in the two hundred individual the four hundred relay team of medley and Jim Lowe finished Marty King, Tom Burgess, Barry third. The required diving was Simons, and Doug Richardson won by Hobart and lrv Kaufman lost to the Orangemen. More Tax viewpoint APPLICATION FOR ARTS SYMPOSIUM NAME------------------------------- YEAR--------------------------------- PHONE-------------------------------- BOX-----------~----------- MAJOR-----------------------~ Enclosed is the one dollar fee to ensure my participation. Sincerely. when we refer to the small percentage increase in student tax ovet the past four years of spiraling inflation. When comparing the 1972-1973 Union catalogue with its 1976-1977 counterpart, we see that during that time; student tax has risen from $60 to $75, or a 25% increase, while tuition has sky- rocketed from $2,700 to a projected $3, 750,. for a 39% rise. While the college has constantly defended these large increases, they have never mentioned any increased· services which tuition increases have brought about. Indeed, the mere financial outlook for the college has been Continued from Page 3 used as a justification fm increased charges, to be passed along to the students. It would be conceivable for the Tax Committee to urge students and the administration to press the Board of Trustees for a cost- of-living increase in student tax for the upcoming year. This tactic does not do justice to the entire spectrum of student tax expenditures. Currently, your $75 student activity fee is helping to support some thirty-eight student organizations, many of which were recently enacted and others which recently expande<l to provide greater service to the community. Among the more recently founded organizations, the Cabaret, Speaker's Forum, Pre-Law . Society and In terna tiona! Studies and Relations Club, have provided entertainment, cultural events, and in general a needed service to this College Community. As earlier reported In Concordiensis, some $229,000 was originally requested from the Tax Committee. Due to poor communication between the Administration and ourselves we were under. a false impression concerning money to be allocated. This mistake is not one to be overlooked, and certainly one to be learned from. It is an error that surfaced because this year's Committee believed that it was necessary for students to know first hand how their money was being spent. In the past, exact figures concerning budgetary requests and allotments were always kept from fellow students. This year such a practice was discontinued and student tax matters have been discussed openly by the Committee's members. To re-emphasize a point, poor communication is not the major problem with the Tax Committee. Through error, the need for an increased activity fee has been brought to light. Baslietball Continued from Page 12 won all six. In the five preceding contests they generously conceded 72 pts. They won two of the fivt;:. success this past week. Against Hobart and Albany he hit for a total of 24 points, second only to Kelly. Underneath Fish constantly battled for rebounds leading the squad, along with Steve and Roger, versus Albany and placing second behind AI Walker against Hobart. But last Saturday evening Fish finished second to no one. Against the much ta.ller Yellowiackets Joel scrapped and fought for I 0 •Cibi~l'!.l!l\Oi'~h·c··'·'lrebounds and 15 points as Union ./;;tbe-l1tlPt;:U1iit:%''·'mew~~:iba'IV;<libJ~ti't~~~· demolished Rochester 71-62, on But again, this demands time and battle experience. So it wasn't until the past two weeks, after e1ght games of tentativeness and adjustment, that Gary Borgese and John Denio put it all together. But when they did - watch out. Against Albany, John and Geese clamped down so tight on the State guards their forward were forced to bring the ball upcourt. Versus Rochester, Gary held their high scorer to 15 points below his average. LihtarY is .. 'Jan{tnage, 'f:~C:Jf:;$~~i:;~ 5 l•·a rn. guirge few blocks away. dte. st11.tcture of o~~ t~?~fh*• ~~d ,~C?llo~ . ~&t!l't~H~\ ·~rl ·. p.!-fr~11P~~ Tom Burgess :78 the, ·.nature . 0~ . ~ur . '\\fOt'la: .. A~d bngUJs.iiC ccwcep~u@ change win Ed Corbett 78 wbtle many of these theortes are abet institutmnal change, If the Ms. Rothschild replies: .·I _sp~~~lative,ther_ ~~~,~~t,.!~\a latteri~:~y~.P~}?m9;t~.J;?OS,~ibi~~t~:·· .. appreciated yout tesptntse to the prmri absu~d. as. Mr. 6 Co!lnat why should we not alter the editorial but find it necessary to se~n1s. to tlun~t~~y ~re. It ~s b~ lan$Uage1 ·. . . . .· ... · . . . . . reply. t ant~ as you have stated, no· means obv~ous, to me ~t any And why should proposals. to not a member of the swirn team rate, that contmually refernng to so alter the language be a subject but 1 «fid wqrk as a lifeguaJ:d .for ~~tronauts as space tnen will. ~t for laughter? ·. two . CD'l(Seeutjv;e ter;ms. . In accuittu!ifte . <~}:ff,ttf'·' :,';,(itt~' additiont t ba~'C. wa$.ed't}utin •the- IJ~lieytt1B: th.at.. Ctli;~ · . . . . . ·. · · · ···· · -pool ttn~· ~ave.· ~~e·.diVbig . . t.s:11otr ex~l~s ~i(ll~} a ··.··· .··. bo~Jtd. N~llless ..... · Y~·~!J.e pool . . . ve ~ a man}sJt~b, Nit'>t · . and the. ar~a lfl'ounll ·it ~re' fil~y do¢'s> . .t\'ttt;•· j)'(:.{},Jitt~H~~s.. ·.{)'Wti . . but lbave· learned frmn ~6tldng eXAtnl)le , of the snHness ot at · O.ll;rer ·u ...... ,,. .If ''a)it4'lh•-ln~·:. their home court. But no matter how many shots scored or rebounds grabbed, Union hoop is nothing without defense. In the past six games the Garnet have stmgily• granted an of 58 pts./game. They ·This Saturday, in Memorial Fieldhouse, the Dutchmen try to stretch their streak to seven as they confront Kings Point. Tip- off time is 8:00 p.m. DOES YOUR RESUME LOOK LIKE THIS??? JAN M. DOE Permanent Address 128 Manor Ave. Kingston, N.Y. (914) 331-9762 College Address Box 1000 Union College Schenectady, N.Y. (518) 370-3000 Education . · Candidate for a B.A. degree in Sociology, Umon College, Schenectady. N.Y-. June, 1976 . Job Experience - none Volunteer and Community Experience - none Extra-Curricular Activities - none Ask-about· the Venture and Volunteer. ·Pragranrs· in the Office of Placement and Career Counseling t\J' li

Page 10 Breslin speaks: A good guy finally by KEVIN SCHARY Gut emotion came to Union last night in the form of gue~t speaker J1mmy Breslin. Bresh_n was not a fluid speaker but h1s message came through loud and clear. Breslin i-; high ~chool graduate (after 5 ~·ear,) from :\:ew York Citv. who decided to try and earn his ·Ji,ing a' a writer. After an cxpn'e on Casey Stengel and the early Mel!-. he \Hole The Gang that · Couldn't Shoot Straight which was successful on the screen and on the bestseller lists. After that he gained employment as a free-lance journatist for the ~ew York news. media. Many of his ideas and articles came from the numerous bars and pubs that hespeckle the city. It was in one of these hars that he and author- friend. \\'orm~m Mailer. decided to run for Mavor nf ~ew York City. Their ~dmirahle hut ill- Swimming Omtinued from Page ll opening relay consisting of Tom placed third in the grueling two Richardson, Ed Corbett, Jim hundred yard buttertly. Lowe, and new addition AI l om Richardson proved to be Hertlberg lost a close race. Doug a cons1~tent winner by taking the Richardson captured the two hundred back while Tommy thousand-vard fre<.:style with lrv Burgess hung in and fought to Kaufman ]ust missing third place. capture third place. Hobart took Hertzberg, after a short rest, took first and third in the 500 free w::n second place in the 200 free while Union's Hertzberg taking secona. Ed Corbett was touched out in Jim Lowe and Ed Corbett swept a the grinding fifty free and had to surprised Hobart in the two settle for a second place. Tom hundred-yard breaststroke. The Richardson brought home a first optional diving was scratched and in the two hundred individual the four hundred relay team of medley and Jim Lowe finished Marty King, Tom Burgess, Barry third. The required diving was Simons, and Doug Richardson won by Hobart and lrv Kaufman lost to the Orangemen. APPLICATION FOR ARTS SYMPOSIUM NAM~K-------------------------------- YEAR--------------------------------- PHONE-------------------------------- BOX, ______________________ _ MAJ0°R-------------------------- Fnclmed j, the nne dollar fee to eno;ure mv participation. Sincerely, G arrives fated campaign gave Breslin his first real exposure to the smoke filled hackrooms of politics. His concerned feelings led to him to hecome a journalistic watchdog of our political system that culminated in his latest book. How the Good Guys Finally Won, or how Congress threw Richard Nixon out of office. He spoke of the racism that pervades our cities and the failures of our government and our leaders. His message was that it was our responsibility to give a damn ahout prnhlem;; and iniu ~tice and for every -;i ngle rero.;on to do somethin,!! ahout it. We the people. the educated masses. ha\·e an obligation to watch over our 'i\\stem . Helga and modern dance Continued from Page 5 bodies\ and to view dance as '\creative therapy.\ Remember, Helga says, \Moveme11t is a must.\ In the future, she would like to start a workshop here for those advanced individwals who are interested ill working on technique and in seeing a \'finished product.\ Chairman explains Continued from Page 7 l\ommitke. !\he $150,000 that the Committee had to work wtth would not have been sufficient to !Ut~d stud<.:nt activities. The fact that many organit.ations would have initially been allocated funds far hdo\\ their requests has been ignored iA t·he wake of the recent controver~y. this i~ disturbi11g. An increase in the student aetivitv fee is therefore essential in order to keep pace with the ever- increasing demands of the activities (and il'lflation). This fee incrca!:ie, though not retroactive, \\ould hopefully become effective for the upcoming year. This supplement would provide the needed funds for student activities to operate at a level beneficial to all involved. More Tax viewpoint when we refer to the small percentage increase in student tax over the past four years of spiraling inflation. When comparing the I 972-1973 Union catalogue with its 1976- I 977 counterpart, we see that during that time, studcr'lt tax has nsen from $60 to $75, or a 25% increase, while tuition has sky- rocketed from $2.700 to a projected $3,750, for a 39% rise. While the college has constantly defended these large increases, they have never mentioned any increased services which tuition increases have brought about. Indeed, the mere financial outlook for the college has been Continued from Page 3 Concordiensis, some $229,000 used as a jwstificatwn for was originally requested from the increased charges, to be passed Tax Committee. Due to poor along to the students. communication between the It would be coHceivable for the Administration and ourselves we Tax Committee to urge students were under a false impression and the administration to press concerning money to be allocated. the Board of Trustees for a cost- rhis mistake 1 s not one to be of-living increase m student tax overlooked, and certainly one to for the upcoming year. This tactic be learned from. It is an error does not do justice to the entire that surfaced because this year's spectrum of student tax Committee believed that it was expenditures. Currently, your $75 necessary for students to know student activity fee is helping to first hand how their money was support so1ne thirty-eight student being spent. In the past, exact organi.tations, many of which figures concerning budgetary were recently enacted and others requests and allotments were which recently expanded to always kept from fellow students. provide greater service to the This year such a practice was community. Among the more discontinued and student tax recently founded organizations, matters have been discussed the Cabaret, Speaker's Forum. openly by the Committee's ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~;-~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~ Pre-Law Society and mem~~- , LETT. ·e·. R. s fraternities would be International Studies and To re-emphasize a point, poor ·.. ~. . . . . . . . . ·. · .·. ·· coeducational. The fact that they Relations Club, have provided communication is not the major are not, accurately reflects the entertainment, cultural events, problem with the Tax Committee. feminists'perception of the mirror and in general a needed service to I\hrough error, the need for an deep water Continued from Page 6 them clean and clear of cockroaches. Jt also seems that she has never tried to play basketball on the most challenging surface this side of a cobble stone street. She also must never have tried to play handball either for if she was lucky enough to get through the waiting line in less than a few hours she would have found a court which is just as poor as the gym floor. . .. I would suggest that AH R v1s1t the gym to see just how proud she is of the \asset\ before she writes another article about it l am not saying that the library is flawless; what I am saying is that the library is probably more adequate than the gym, especially in light of the fact that the Schenectady Library is exceHent and is only a few blocks away. Tom Burgess '78 Ed Corbett '78 Ms. Rothschild replies: I appreciated your response to the editorial but find it necessary to reply. I am, as you have stated, not a member of the swim team but I did work as a lifeguard for two consecutive terms. In addition, I have worked out in the pool and have used the diving board. Needless to say, the pool and the area around it are filthy but I have learned from working at other pools that a new filter and a '\pitch-in\ effort can clean the area. The locker rooms are also not the most inviting, but again I suggest that soap and water can improve them. I agree with you that it is quite awkward to have a \Foote Pool\ and a cut out ceiling over the diving board. I love sports and would especially ' love a new pool. but I do not feel that at a time of financial difficulty that a sports \complex\ is what is called for. 'huperson' revisited Continued from Page 7 O'Connor jestingly suggests. Another similarity between Mr. O'Connor and the eminent Victorian gentleman of the lecture hall is their failure to appreciate the intellectual thrust of the positions they attack. For just as Huxley's lecture involved something more than genealogy, feminists proposals for linguistic reform are not just a matter of semantics. In part, these proposals reflect contemporary sociological and philosophical insights about the intimate inter- connections between language, the structure of our thought, and the nature of our world. And while many of these theories are speculative, they are not as a priori absurd as Mr. O'Connor seems to think they are. It is by no means obvious, to me at any rate, that continually referring to ;_:stronauts as space men will not acculturate little girls into believing that the exploration of space is not, exclusively, a male prerogative - a man's job. Nor does Mr. O'Connor's own example of the silliness of semantic integration, the translation of 'freres' (brothers) prove as convincing as he intended it to be. The 'freres' of Union College motto is the 'freres' of 'fraternity' and'fraternal.' Now if, as Mr. O'Connor suggests, this family of terms did not reflect a sexually exclusive male society one would expect that campus which language holds up to (and this College Community. increased activity fee has been which one might add, reinforces) As earlier reported In brought to light. social reality. In part, the feminists' proposals reflect a desire to further the quiet emancipation of the majority of humankind which first became possible in _the twentieth. ~ent~ry and which 1s slowly reahzmg 1ts actuality. As Freud insightfully remarked for the nineteenth century, and for all previo_us centuries, ''anatomy was destiny.\ Given the burdens of pregnancy and maternity, equality between the sexes was almost physically impossible, or, at least, possible only at considerable sacrifice (such as sexual absentism). In our century birth control through mechanical and chemo- therapeutic means has liberated women from the represstve destiny of anatomy. AH that constrains them now are historically rooted, but obsolete, prejudices and inegalitarian conceptual structures. Perhaps, as institutions change, language will follow naturally, Or, perhaps, linguistic conceptual change will abet institutional change. If the latter is even a remote possibility, why should we not alter the language? And why should proposals to so alter the language be a subject for laughter'? Sincerely, Robert Baker Philosophy Dept. Mr. O'Connor replies: I am grateful to Prof. Baker for 'his lecture; in the way of bibliography, I recommend the interested reader to the work ..of such authors as Carnap, Chomsky, Sapir, Ogden & Richards, and especially Bloomfield. As to the remarks of Mssss. (is that correct?) Kohn, Dein, and Mestiina, I 11m for~ed to conclude that feminists have ho sense of humor. Basl~etball Continued from Page 12 success this past week. Against Hobart and Albany he hit for a total of 24 points, second only to Kelly. Underneath Fish comta ntly battled for rebounds leading the squad, along with Steve and Roger, versus Albany and placing second behind AI Walker against Hobart. But last Saturday evening Fish finished second to no one. Against the much taller Yellowiackets Joel scrapped and fought for 10 rebounds and 15 points as Union demolished Rochester 71-62, on their home court. But no matter how many shots scored or rebounds grabbed, Union hoop 1s nothing without defense. In the past s1x games the Garnet have '>ttngtly · granted an average of 58 pts./game. They won all six. In the five preceding contests they generously conceded 72 pts. They won two of the five. But again. this demands time and hattie experience. So it wasn't until the past two weeks, after t:tght games of tentativeness and adjustment, that Gary B~rgese and John Denio put 1t all together. But when they did · watch out. Against Alhany. John and Gee~e clamped down so tight on the State guards their forward were forced to bring the ball upcourt. Versus Rochester, Gary held their high scorer to 15 points below his av~rage. . ·This Saturday, m Mcmonal heldhouse, the Dutchmen try to stretch their ~treak to seven as they confront Kings Point. Tip- off time is 8:00 p.m. DOES YOUR RESUME LOOK LIKE THIS??? JAN M. DOE Permanent Address 12R Manor Ave. Kingston.:\! .Y. (914) J31-97f>2 Education College Address Box 1000 ll n inn College Schenectadv, N.Y. (51Rl 370-3000 Candidate for a B.A. degree in Sociology. Union College. Schenectadv. N.Y .. June. 1976. Job Experience - none Volunteer and Community Experience - none Extra-Curricular Activities - none Ask about the Venture and Volunteer ·Programs in the Office of Placement and Career Counseling .~ i. . I : .. >, ( ~ ., I .t 'i :, i ,, i II 't ., -~ . ! . i I ~· :• . '

for on a the fee the ities to ,000 the the we sion be to was now was xact was tax poor r an been five. time after rgese all John tight ball Gary 15 to as Tip- ~ r=;: \ ., \' ., E \ Ct: >. \' ~ ;>, \\ c c .., c.. CONCORDIENSIS, Wednesday, Feb. 4, 1976 Page 11 sports Track nudged by JEFF SCHEINENGER A new Union record was set in the mile run on Saturday agafnst Plattsburgh ami Mohawk Valley Community College. Steve Jones· raced to a record-breaking 4:20.0 beating his old record of 4:21.4. However, it was only good for a third place berth. Freshman Kevin Scheuer took first place in that race by beating Jones' old record and his new record. Scheuer, ru~ning the event for the first time, took first place -with an .outstanding time of 4:17.5. Kevin also took first place in the 1000 yard run. the tape to give Union its first place berth in that event. In the 50 yard dash Union took first, second, third, and fourth places with Milt Herring, Lee Parish, and Mark Decker doing the scoring. Decker, another outstanding freshman, also scored first place in the 50 yard high hurdles. He was supported by Lee Parish who took fourth in that event. In the final two running events, Steve Jones took third place in the two- mile run, and Union placed second in the two-mile relay. Captain Dave Plumer flopping his way to second consecutive high JUmp victory. An excellent performance was also logged by Bob Moffat who took first place in the 600 yard run. Moffat was also responsible for the Garnet's victory in the mile relay. Moffat took a dive at In the pole vaulting event, Dave Ricks took first place and Steve Mastities took the third place berth in the same event. Ricks also took fourth in the long jump. Dave Plumer, captain of this year's team, took first place in the high jump and Kevin Cummins took second. In the triple jump, freshman Earl Chilton took third place. In the final event of the meet, the shot-put, Pete Sherman took second place and Bruce Bonnano, fourth. Mermen d·unked Ill opening meets .. The Union College Mermen opened their season at the Foote Pool against Trinity College last Wednesday. A traditional rival, ·the Trinity meet looked to be a sure win for Union at the beginning of January. However, two of Union's leading competitors quit the team the day before the meet and a star sprinter distocated his shoulder in a skiing accident. Thus Coach Magee's boys entered the competition lacking the depth needed for an easy victory. Each s~immer knew that the meet would be close ..... and that the victory or defeat could rest on his own individual effort. Union's Mermen performed well but lost 54-51. Lacking a diver, Union was unable to score the needed points for victory. The opening mealey relay of Tom Richardson, Ed Corbett, Jim Lowe, and Doug Richardson, trounced Trinity. Doug Richardson won the thousand- INTRA MURALS Roller Skating: On Thursday, February 5 at 7:00 p.m. there will be a Rollerskating party for all interested students, faculty and staff. Transportation to and from the rink will be provided via the Intramural and Recreation Van. The Van will be leaving from Alumni Gym at 6;45 p.m.. For more information contact Bob Driscoll, 370-6\119. Skate Pass and Shoot Contest: How can you \Skate ••Pass,\ or \Shoot?\ Well here is your chance to find out on Thursday, February 12 at 10:00 p.m. The Intramural Department will be running a skate, shoot, and pass :ontest for all interested male and female students. Trophies will be ,Jresented to the first and second place male and female place getters. See you there. Platform Tennis Tournament Results: On Saturday, January 16 in the brutal cold Schenectady weather Rolf Lipton and Mason Gomberg defeated Lenny Wohl and Ken Mackenzi in the finals of the Platform Tennis Tournament (6-2, 6-0). Lipton and Mason \The Hammer\ Qomberg had previously defeated \Tito\ Busterud and Kelly in a v.ery Close match, 7-5, 6-4. Congratulations Rolf and Mason. . by KEITH JACOBSON yard freestyle and Irv Kaufman took third. In the 200-yard freestyle AI Hertzberg fought hard but lost a close race and took second. Ed Corbett won the fifty-yard freestyle, and Tom Richardson and Jim Lowe placed first and third respectively in the 200~yard individual medley. After Trinity won the required diving, lrv Kaufman took third in the 200-yard butterfly. Doug Richardson and AI Hertzberg took first and third in an exCiting hundred=-yard freestyle. Tom Richardson placed first in the two-hundred yard backstroke, with a tough Tommy Burgess bringing home a second place. The 500 free saw Hertzberg and Kaufman fighting hard but taking second' and thiFd place. Jim Lowe brought home a tough victory in the 200 breast and Ed Corbett followed up with a third. Trinity took the optional diving ·and the final four-hundred yard freestyle relay consisting of Barry Simons, Keith Jacobson, Tom Burgess, and Larry Levine made a gallant attempt but lost to the Trinity foursome. Union vs. Hobart The foilowing Saturday a loud, abrasive, unsportsmanlike Hobart team came to the Foote Pool to try their luck against the Mermen. Better than Trinity, the Hobart team thought that their afternoon in Schenectady was going to be a picnic. Their expectations were gravely wrong; Union fought right down to the wire. The Continued on Page 10 Matmen .bombard arch-rivals ··l..ast Wednesday, with the help of their first home crowd in the architectural confines of Alumni Gym, Union's wrestling team pinned down another win over R.P.l. with a 3'1-18 score. This was Union's second win over R.P.I. this season. Union has a 10-4 season record and with only four matches left have assured themselves of a fine season. This is the first time in 4 seasons that Union has gone into double figures in victories. The fact that the team is close knit and spirited might explain the success, as well as the respect the wrestlers have for their coach, Bruce Freeman, who is only a fifth year student at Union and possibly one of the youngest coaches in college around. There were three highlights from the R.P.I. meet worth mentioning. Josh Salzman in his best effort of the season pinned Joe Cotroneo in I :35. It was a quick pin in the first period and Josh showed his true capabilities. The second highlight occurred in the 134 pound class with senior co-captain Larry Dagastino in full control. Larry, 12-2 for the season. brutalized Chris Drance of R. P.l. in amassing a 13-1 decision. Drance seemed to be in a constant state of pain throughout his body and appeared to be stalling throughout the match. by NEAL ADAM SCHWARTZ moves: he becomes dangerous. Tom is 9-4-1 for the season. Mike Paquette, wrestling at 167 pounds, won two tournaments at Queensberry and M.l.T. over the Christmas break. Mike posted a major decision over Jim Kessler of R.P.I. with a 18-3 score. Mike is now 11-1-1 for the season -a season which might be capped by a few post-regular season matches. Jim Sutton will most likely see extra action after the season as well. Jim continued his undefeated ways in posting an 8-2 decision over Greg Neilley of R.P.l. Jim, a sophomore, is 12-0- 1 for the season. Kevin Hallenback accepted a forfeit last Wednesday and sports a 10-2-2 record at 126 pounds. Union's next match is away at Williamstown, Mass. February 7 in a double dual with Williams and M.I.T. After having read this accQunt, I'm sure that most of the reader.s fully expected to read that Union won this meet. We did not. We lost to Plattsburgh by one point, 62-61, with MVCC socring 14 points. It may be said that Union competed very well against one of the State's leading track powerhouses. lndeed they did, however, it was made clear to this reporter that the only reason for Mohawk Valley's participation in the meet was to split the scoring in the .shot put and the 50 yard high hurdle events. This was to give Plattsburgh the very small lead that they would need. It did. If indeed my sources a~:e correct, this meet was far more of a victory than it was a narrow defeat. On February 7, the legmen are going at it again in the field house. How about taking a break from Winter Carnival, and stopping by to support our team? UNION 31, RPI 18 I I R-Rlachly IR PI) pinned DeBlois. 4:21. 126-Hallenback (U) won by forfeit. 134-Dagastino (ll) dec. Drance, 13-1. 142-Abrams {RPl) dec. Redder. 6-5. !50-Sutton (ll) dec. Neilly. R-2. !58-Everett (U) won by default over Orsini. 167-Paquette {Ul dec. Kessler. 18-3. 177-Sa\7man (l'l pinned Cotroneo. I :35. 190-Thompson (R PT) dec. FarrelL 13-7. Hwt.-Panasuk (RPI) pinned Fenson. I :10. The third highlight was co- captain Tom Everett's performance. Tom injured his opponent, Tom Orsini, to win by default. To clarify, Tom did not do this intentionally, but it is certainly an indication of what can happen. when a wrestler combines .. both strength and .. Union grappler applying pressure to opponent's noggin. I ~ 'l ,;. ~- ' ' d •• ' ~. ,ill\\

for Nho on a ver- t he fee I his the itics to ,000 the the we S!On be e to was now was xact was tax tee's poor ttee. an been five. time after and rgese all John tight ball Gary 15 ry to as Tip- ~ ! ! I, » ·;: ' .... ) .. \ \' E i c \' :>. \ ~ c f- ;. .<:; ~ c c \' \- ~ ~ ~ I ~ ') ~ ~ t ~ •' 1 ~ ~ l; l f i it I t } ~ ;t •• l i ; I 1 ; ( lJ :t ~1 'rf ; ~ ~' ·.·~ ·f i, ' . . \'i~ i ·~ 1 J: ·' !. 1\; } i .¢ :i ~ I l \ t •• II ,. •t '~ ! ••• . i :. ·' I ~· 4 •• ' I :• 'f ' ~~1' ~ ~~; )\ t' '# ~ ~ CONCORDIENSJS, Wednesday, Feb. 4. 1976 sports Track nudged by JEFF SCHEINENGER A new lJ nion record was set in the mile run on Saturday against Plattsburgh and Mohawk Valley Community College. Steve Jones raced to a n:curd-breaking 4:20.0 beati11g his old record of 4:21.4. However, it was only good for a third place berth. freshman Kevin Sch<:uer took first place in that race by beating Jones' old record and his new record. Scheuer, running the event for the first time, took first place with an outstanding time of 4:17.5. Kevin also took first place in the I 000 yard run. the tape to gi\ e L nion ib first place berth in that c\ent. In the 50 yard dash Union took first, ::.econd. third, and fourth places with Milt Herring. Lee Parish, and Mark Decker doing the sconng. Decker, another outstanding freshman, also scored first place in tAe 50 yard h1gh hurdles. He was supported by Lee Parish who took fourth in that event. In the final two running events, Steve Jones took third place in the two- mile run, and Union placed second in the two-mile relay. Captain Dave Plumer flopping his way to second consecutive high JUmp victory. An excellent performance was also logged by Bob Moffat who took first place in the 600 yard tun. Moffat was also responsible for the Garnet's victory in the mile relay. Moffat took a dive at In the pole vaulting event, Dave Ricks took first place and Steve Mastities took the third place berth in the same event. Ricks also took fourth in the loilg jump. Mermen dunked Ill opening meets Dave Plumer, captain of this year's team, took first place in the high jump and Kevin Cummins took second. In the triple jump, freshman Earl Chilton took third place. In the final event of the meet, the shot-put, Pete Sherman took second place and Bruce Bonnano, fourth. The Union College Mermen opened their season at the Foote Pool against Trinity College last Wednesday. A traditional rival, the Trinity meet looked to be a sure win for Union at the beginning of January. However, two of Union's leading competitors quit the team the day before the meet and a star sprinter dislocated his shoulder in a skiing accident. Thus Coach Magee's boys entered the competition lacking the depth needed for an easy victory. Each swimmer knew that the meet would be close and that the victory or defeat could rest on his own individual effort. Union's Mermen performed well but lost 54-51. Lacking a diver, Union was unable to score the needed points for victory. The opening medley relay of Tom Richardson. Ed Corbett, Jim Lowe, and Doug Richardson, trounced Trinity. Doug Richardson won the thousand- INTRA MURALS Roller Skating: On Thursday, February 5 at 7:00 p.m. there will be a Rollerskating party for all interested students, faculty and staff. Transportation to and from the rink will be provided via the Intramural and Recreation Van. The Van will be leaving from Alumni Gym at 6:45 p.m. For more information contact Bob Driscoll, 370.6119. Skate Pass and Shoot Contest: How can you \Skate \Pass or \Shoot?\ Well here is your chance to find out on Thursday, February 12 at 10:00 p.m. The Intramural Department will be running a skate, shoot, and pass ;ontest for all interested male and ,·cmale students. Trophies will be ,Jre~entcd to the first and second place male and female place getters. See you there. Platform Tennis Tournament Results: On Saturday, January 16 in the brutal cold Schenectady weather Rolf Lipton and Mason Gomberg defeated Lenny Wohl and Ken Mackenzi in the finals of the Platform Tennis Tournament (6-2, 6-0). Lipton and Mason \The Hammer\ (iomberg had previously defeated \Tito\ Busterud and Kelly in a very close match, 7-5, 6-4. Congratulations Rolf and Mason. by KEITH JACOBSON yard freestyle and lrv Kaufman took third. In the 200-yard freestyle AI Hertzberg fought hard but lost a close race and took second. Ed Corbett won the fifty-yard freestyle, and Tom Richardson and Jim Lowe placed first and third respectively in the 200-yard individual medley. After Trinity won the required diving, Irv Kaufman took third in the 200-yard butterfly. Doug Richardson and AI Hertzberg took first and third in an exciting hundred-yard freestyle. Tom Richardson placed first in the two-hundred yard backstroke, with a tough Tom my Burgess bringing home a second place. The 500 free saw Hertzberg and Kaufman fighting hard but taking second' and third place. Jim Lowe brought home a tough victory in the 200 breast and Ed Corbett followed up with a third. Trinity took the optional diving and the final four-hundred yard freestyle relay consisting of Barry Simons, Keith Jacobson, Tom Burgess, and Larry Levine made a gallant attempt but lost to the Trinity foursome. Union vs. Hobart The foflowing Saturday a loud, abrasive, unsportsmanlike Hobart team came to the Foote Pool to try their luck against the Mermen. Better than Trinity, the Hobart team thought that their afternoon in Schenectady was going to be a picnic. Their expectations were gravely wrong; Union fought right down to the wire. The Continued on Page l 0 Matmen bombard arch-rivals · ·iast Wednesdav. with the help of their first home crowd in the architectural confines of Alumni Gym. Union's wrestling team pinned down another win over R.P.I. with a 31-18 score. This was Union's second win over R. P.l. this season. Union has a 10-4 season record and with only four matches left have assured themselves of a fine season. This is the first time in 4 seasons that Union has gone into double figures in victories. The fact that the team is close knit and spirited might explain the success. as well as the respect the wrestlers have for their coach. Bruce Freeman, who is only a fifth year student at ll nion and possibly one of the youngest coaches In college around. fhere were three highlights from the R.P.l. meet worth mentioning. Josh Salzman in his best effort of the season pinned Joe Cotroneo in I :35. It was a quick pin in the first period and Josh showed his true capabilities. The second highlight occurred in the 134 pound class with senior co-captain Larry Dagastino in full control. Larry, 12-2 for the season. brutalized Chris Drance ol R.P.l. in amassing a 13-1 decision. Drance seemed to be in a co~stant state of pain throughout his body and appeared to be stalling throughout the match. by NEAL ADAM SCHWARTZ moves: he becomes dangerous. Tom is 9-4-1 for th\c season. Mike Paquette, wrestling at 167 pounds, won two tournaments at Queensberry and M.I.T. over the Christmas break. Mike posted a major decision over Jim Kessler of R.P.I. with a 18-3 score. Mike is now ll-1-1 for the season ·- a season which might be capped by a few post-regular season matches. Jim Sutton will most likely see extra action after the season as well. Jim continued his undefeated ways in posting an g-2 decision over Greg Neilley of R.P.I. Jim, a sophomore. is 12-0- 1 for the season. Kevin Hallenback accepted a forfeit last Wednesday and sports a I 0-2-2 record at 126 pounds. Union's next match is away at Williamstown, Mass. february 7 in a double dual with Williams and M.I.T. After having read this account, I'm sure that most of the readers fully expected to read that Union won this meet. We did not. We lost to Plattsburgh by one point, 62-61, with M VCC soc ring 14 points. It may be said that Union competed very well against one of the State's leading track powerhouses. Indeed they did, however, it was made clear to this reporter that the only reason for Mohawk Valley's participation in the meet was to split the scoring in the shot put and the 50 yard high hurdle events. This was to give Plattsburgh the very small lead that they would need. It did. If indeed my sources are correct, this meet was far more of a victory than it was a narrow defeat. On February 7, the legmen are going at it again in the field house. How about taking a break from Winter Carnival. and stopping by to support our team'? liNION 31, RPI 18 IIR-Rlachh iRPll pinned DeBI,,i,. 4·21 12o-Hallenhack i\') '\'n hy forfeit 134-Da~ta,tinnll'l dec. Dmnce. 1~-1 142-Ahram' !RPll dec. Redder. fo-~. l'iO-Suttnn (I\) dec. '\cill\. R-2 15R-F~erett il'l v.nn h\ default n\er or,mi. I 1\>7-Paquettc (\ 'l dec· Ke\ler. I X-~ 1'7-Saltman !1\\ pinned C•>trnnc11. I ~'i JQO-Thnmp,0n iRPil dec Farrdl. D-.,. H\\1 -P~na,uk IR Pl\ pmned Fen,c>n. 1:10 The third highlight was co- captain Tom Everett's performance. Tom injured his opponent, Tom Orsini, to win by default. To clarify, Tom did not do this intentionally, but it is certainly an indication of what can happen when a wrestler combines both strength and Union grappler applying pressure to opponent's nogxin.

Page 12 C.ONCORDIENSiS, Wednesday, Feb. 4. 1976 • SIX Hoop winning streak extends to \What was the problem? Where was the leadership, the defense? Would they ever be able to squelch their consistent inconsistency and muster even a two game winning streak?\ Only two weeks ago these laments echoed throughout the conversations of many of UColl hoop fans as they agonized over a substandard 4-4 record and the enigmatic play of the hoopers themselves. Well, rest assured. Union College basketball is alive and well, and for the past week has by BILL HENSON exhilerate in Steve's on court backdoor offense. But AI, at 6~4\ exploits over the past few winters f85 lacks· Gugliotta's crucial size know better. To observe once, to and muscle underneath the see him throw a head and boards. Union's other pivot men, shoulder fake, toying with his Smitty and Roger don't. But then, opponent like a puppet on a they don't possess Al's or string, then blow by with a quick Charlie's shooting ability, and due spurt, leap,. pump, hang and to inexperience their knowledge finally release the ball for two is · of the offe\nse . either. lhus a moFe than en_9ugh to demonstrate greater share of the burden must that his Hartwick effort should be he carried by the forwards if the the norm and not the exception. Dutchmen are to come anywhere More importantly this year, close to duplicating last season's Kel's superior games not only success. should be, but must be the rule rather than the exception. With Charlie Gugliotta graduated, > ~ • j< '\ ~· • ', • •' 'I ' ~· ,!; > • •' ~ • :• ' ' ' • - I :• ' • ~ • • ' Yet two-thirds into the Albany battle Kelly, a starting forward for three years, hadn't done anything; a few buckets, a couple of rebounds, that was it. Finally, after Steve failed to pick up an offensive foul and with the Great Danes narrowing the gap to three HOBART GAME tlnion 59, Hobart 57 Union FG FT TP Denio 4 0-0 R fi,her 4 4-5 12 Kelly 9 1-2 ]I) Bor~e;.e 3 0-0 6 Or. Walker 3 0-0 6 Smith 2 0-0 4 S vm <>nett e 2 0-0 4 27 5-7 59 Hobart FG FT TP Kolmet7 8 1-3 17 Johnson 2 0.0 4 Dowd 2 0·0 4 Cornwell I 0-0 2 Wilder 5 0-0 10 DeVaney 4 3-3 11 McLaurin 2 1-1 5 Truskowski 2 0..0 4 26 5-7 57 ROCHESTER GAME Union 71, Rochester 62 Union FG FT TP Denio R 0-0 16 Fi,her 6 3-4 15 Kell' 4 1·2 9 Roqw;,e 3 0-0 6 Or. Walker 3 2·3 8 Meola 3 1-l 7 Smith I 1·2 3 Symonette 0 5-7 5 DeGregory I 0-0 2 2,9 13-20 71 Rochester FG FT TP Herlan 4 0-2 8 Mulligan I 0-0 2 Klimschot 4 3-5 11 Kelech 1 0-0 2 -Friedman 6 0.0 12 Bailey 3 0-2 6 Mattioli 6 4-5 16 O'Brien I 0.0 2 Brophy I 1-1 3 27 8-17 62 Coach Scanlon has started at one point or another, AI Walker, Mike Smith or Roger Symonette at center. AI, a natural forward, has the outside touch necessary to draw opposing big men away from the middle, thus opening the lane for the Garnet' s driving, · Coach Scanlon called time. Most of us will never know what Scanlon said to Kel, but we can be sure that it had the desired affect. Steve returned to the floor, promptly scored 12 of Union's next 16 points and finished with 27 for the game, shooting an amazing 12-15 from the floor. Against Hobart he did it again, canning a climatic jumper from the corner with one second showing to propel Union to victory 59-57. But Union's frontcourt is hardly a one man show. Joel Fisher, Steve's starting counterpart ana top reserve Pete Meola, are no less valuable to Garnet success. And most significantly, they have been doing the job all year. Last season the two combined for a total average of approximately l S . pts/game. This year that mark is nearly at twenty. Joel in particular experienced great Continued on Page 10 Denio muscling his way up and over awed opponent been spreading-- the word throughout the rest of the state. The Dutchmen's first mission proved to be those Doubting Thomases from the other side of the shopping malls, , the Great Danes of Al'bany State. Apparently unconvinced by their earlier thrashing suffered in the Capital District Tournament, State begged for more. They sought, and they found - the identical result, this time by eleven, 69-58. Next, the Garnet took to the icy Thruway for Pucksters continue winning ways weekend encounters with Hobart The skating Dutchmen, led once again by Mark Jenkins and his linemates, kept their winning ways as they came back and defeated the Buffalo Bulls 6-5 in and Rochester. Hobart struggled furiously before succumbing 59- 57, on a last second conversion by Steve Kelly while the huge Goliaths (6'7\ 6'8\ 6'6\) of Rochester showed to be no match for Union's David ( 59 • .. John overtime, and then returned home Denio and 6'0\ Gary Borgese) to destroy Brockport State 12-0. defense. The three triumphs The Buffalo game had the raised Union's record to I0-4 and Dutchmen visiting the Bulls after their victory skein to six. having crushed them earlier, ll-1. \'But why the sudden However, that was Buffalo's first turnabout?\ game after vacation, and was not First of all the turnaround was representative of their ability. The not 80 sudden. Any one who Bulls came out roaring and held a witnessed the Siena or Hartwick 4-2 lead after the first period, 2 of match-ups knew the potential was the goals coming on power plays. always there, it simply had to be After a scoreless 2nd period the realized. But this takes time, and Dutchmen came out roaring themselves and tied the score on preseason unfortunately, proved not to be time enough. T 0 best goals by Skeeter Gazzola and comprehend the recent success of Donny Marshall, Marshall's Coach Scanlon's squad the coming while Union was down a players themselves, the man.Andjustwhenitlookedlike . Union had the momentum, a by BILL PECK to overtime. After some good chances for both sides, Judd again made a nice pass, this time to Brad Hinterberger who flipped it over the fallen Buffalo goalie for the game winner. Jim Baxter was brilliant in the nets for Union, stopping 50 shots. Against Brockport State, the Dutchmen were beset by many first period penalties, but played well on- defense, once stopping Brockport when the visitors had a 6-3 skating advantage. When the second period started, one had the feeling that the Garnet were about to explode, and explode they did, scoring 10 (count 'em, 10) goals in the period and blowing Brockport back to the hinterlands from whence they came. Union added two more goals in just 21 minutes. Mark Jenkins led the way for the Dutchmen, scoring 3 goals and .adding 4 assists. His linemates, Mike O'Connell and Don Marshall added 3 and 2 goals respectively, and Grant Judd scored 2 as well. Jim Baxter recorded his first shutout of the year, Union's first of the year, as he turned away 24 Brockport shots. Kip Churchill scored 2 goals and added 4 assists for the week to pad his hold on the ECAC Div ll scoring lead. He may have to worry about his own teammate, Mark Jenkins, who's scored 8 goals and I 0 assists in his last 4 games. Tom Pahapill, who had been on a scoring spree himself, tore some ligaments in his knee and will be out until the playoffs. Union vs. Brockport State Peri!ld 1-S,coring - None. Penalties - Brockport, Kain. Holding, 1:34: Union. Ba!!ley, charging. 4:19: Union. Matthewson. charging, . 4:39: Union. Rankin, Interference. 5:57: Brockport. Klink. holding. 6:21: . Union. Kardos, holding. 10:10: Union. Hintcrberger, high sticking. 13:28: Brockport, Allison, high sticking. 13:28: Union, Kaminski.· elbowing, 17:51: Union; shots 11, Saves 9. Baxter; Brock. shots 9; saves II. Dimarria. Period• 2-Scorirtg - l)llnion, Jenkin• IO'C\onrtell. Mar•hall). :57: 2) Union. Churchill (Judd. Hiilterberger), ·1:03:3) Union. Ganola (unassisted). 3:16: 4) Union. Marshall (O\Connell). 3:45: 5) Union. Marshall (Churchill, Jenkins). 7:25: o) llnion. O'Connell (Jenkins. Marshall). 8:10: 7) Union. Judd (Churchill). 12:22: 8) Union. Judd (Churchill. Matthewson), 16:51: 9) Union. Jenkins (Hamilton). 19:24: 10) Union. O'Connell (Marshall. Jenkins), 19:49. Penalties - llnion. Jenkins. charging. 4:43: Brockport. Anderson. charging. 7:13: adjustments and improvements brawl broke out. Grant Judd had demanded of them this season · G 1 must be previously understood. gone hard into the boards and l. r s was knocked out, and when wi~~rst~h~e ~;:n~C:O~~~ t~n~~~ Coach Harkness and trainer John register first • Will U ninn. H interhcrger. interference. 9:55: Brockport. C'rca<ey. interference. 17:31. llnion, 'hot' 21. <aves 9 .. Bax·ter: Brock. 'h\'' 9. 'a\e' 11. Dima.r.ria. although rarely seen, around Alden came across the ice to attend to him, 2 Buffalo players campus as Steve Kelly. Until last b d H k M · I d · Alb umpe ar ness. ano ucs ay s any contest, Kel, G' 11 d h 11 d f h f b h . b. . f 1a onar o c a enge one o t e except o.r a super ex 1 1t10n o B ff 1 1 d d k d h. basketball ability against ~ a 0 P a~ers an ec e · tm II a t .. · k h d b . . wtth h1s sttck, a move he must r r~1c a een expenencmg . 1 h b h . d what for him, can only be labeled regret. e enc es emptle and as a medl · 0 re Th the brawl ensued. After calm had c year. e season b d U . . kl k stats might appear to disprove een restore mon qmc y too thi~. but only upon initial the lead, ~s Grant Judd recovered · · T . from bemg knocked out and mspectton. he semor forward d • K\ Ch h\ll stood second on the squad in rna e a mce pass !o 1p .urc- t assists and scoring (llpts./game) who beat the Buffalo.goahe. 1 he while leading in rebounds. But B~lls got that goal nght back a those of us fortunate enough to mmute later, and the game went by CHARLIE FLANAGAN !he Union College women's basketball team bounced their way to victory number one this past week, with a hard fought victory over the College of Saint Rose, 52-51. Liz Yager provided twenty big ones, while garnering scores of errant rebounds. Donna Sockell threw in twelve, but was hampered by a nagging ankle inJury throughout the second half. Ann Bodjn meshed six points, tossing in three howitzers from downtown Schenectday. Ann Markowitz played like a blanket on defense, shutting off the opponents leading scorer. Gina Pugliese, Lynn Bateman, and Sam Golden played inspired ball for the young hoopsters. Special thanks goes out to Marian Baciewicz for protecting the valuables on the bench. Period 3-Scoring - lll Union. OTonnell Lknk1ml. :2'l: 121 [Inion. .lenk1n' f<.;chma!J). 1.12 Penalties Rrnckr<•rt. Cha·l·:hoi'. char!!in!!. .l·25: Brock port. !\ nder'>on. char!!ing. 7·10: Brockport. Klink. interference. 'l:02 Union, 'h\!' 14. total 46. >a'e' 6. tntal 24. Baxter. Brockport 'h''\ n. \'tal 24. sa\'C' 12. tntul ~4. Ilimarria Scoring Through 14 Games Kip Churchill: ;mal' 14. a\\'' 26. point' 40: Mark Jenkin': 12. 20. J2; Grant Judd: 13. 17. 30: Don Mar,hall: 13. 16. 29; Mario Giallonardo: 3. 21, 24: Brad llinterbcrger: 11. 1 I. 22: Tom Pahapill: 11. 8, 19: Kevin .!<ardo~: 'IV. 6. '1'6: Mike O'C\<lnP~ll: 5, .10. \5. ,. A I B II II ·, .. .. '

. . .•. unton college Vol. lOS, No. 14 Wednesday, February 11, 1976 • • one or tensts The Webster boys pose with their prize-winning snow sculpture. Their Winter Carnival first place finish provided enough liquid n~freshment for next ye~r's Champagne Sculpture contest. Ombudsmen to handle student body grievances by R.B. THAU The Conduc,t-Ombudsman Committee, established by the All-College Senate during the fall term, is an eight-student body operating under the auspices of the Student Life Committee. The COC has bee.n given the responsibility to act in two separate areas: as a conduct committee having jurisdiction over student conduct and behavior, and as ombudsmen with the authority and obligation of acting as a central agency for gathering student grievances and then proceeding towards their resolution. The resoluticm of a student's grievance would begin with an official complaint to the COC. Specific f~nns for registering of complaints are to be utilizl!d and will be available from resident advisors, the Student Activities Office, or the COC office in room 308 of Carnegie Hall. After the form has been filled out and reviewed, action will begin on the grievance. Each case will initially be the responsibility of one COC member who will direct the complainant to the correct channel within the college for resolution of his complaint. If the situation is rectified, the charge is dismissed. If the grievance is not satisfied, the student has the right to bring the matter to the attention of the full committee. The two parties of the grievance, and pertinent witnesses or contributors, will present their sides of the story to the COC. After deliberation on thr case, the COC will make its decision within one week's time. After the decision, the Committee will make a request or recommendation as to appropriate action and will forward this to the proper College authority. Town Meeting scheduled by Forum The most difficult aspect in the realization of the COC came in drafting the bill of particulars. The committee decided upon seven guidelines that were flexible enough to include all forms of conduct, yet specific enough to provide a basis for judgement. The bill of particulars, as established by the COC is: by MATT BRIEF A town meeting occurs when the student government meets with the student body in an effort to find out what students Want from Union. Student Forum has scheduled such a town meeting at the Alumni Gym, Monday, Feb. 16th at 8:00 p.m. Beer will be served, but there are several following resolution: The trimester calendar has proven to be unsatisfactory for money reasons, temporally and otherwise .. The student body and ·Student Forum request that the All-College Senate take action in finding a Calendar better suited to · Union's Academic, extra- curriculu, and temporal needs. discussion of priorities ot the college: whether students believe in an expanded Arts program, and expanded Athletic program, improvements to the library; this is the opportunity for priorities to be expressed. I. Use of facilities, access to as set up by guidelines by departments controlling those facilities. ·important items that need to be dealt with. The Student Forum wishes to gel a sense of the Student Body on this issue. The last item will be new business, a discussion aimed at finding out what students want from government in all areas. Strict procedure will be followed at the meeting. Each item will be discussed for a certain amount of time, and each speaker, selected by the President of Student Forum, chairing the meeting, will only have a specific allotted time to speak. Members of Student Forum will voice their opinions and the Student Body wi!I be asked to join in. If students don't want only the 18 individuals in Student Forum making all the important decisions, it is imperative to attend the tnwn meeting. A. Violation of - If there is improper use of the facilities (e.g. not following the guidelines set up by the particular department) then __ the S!Ud~nt or faculty - The first item on the town meeting agenda will be a Constitutional Amendment put to the students present for ratification by at least 2/ 3 of those voting. The Amendment reads as follows: The student body shall be represented by a President, Vice- President, Secretary, Treasurer, six class representatives, and two student trustees. These 12 individuals shall sit and vote on the Student Forum. El'.cluding the Secretary and Treasurer the other ten individuals shall also sit on the All-College Senate. The Treasurer shall be elected. from either the freshman or sophomore class and shall take office the year following . his election. In the interim year, he will be Assistant Chairman ·of the Tax Committee under the present Treasurer, who shall chair the Tax Committee. In the 1976 election a Treasurer will be elected to serve under the present Assistant Chairman of the Tax Committee in 1976-77. He will become Chairman in 77-78. l n the past the Chairman of the Tax Committee was appointed by the Committee and Committees. It. is now felt that he should be a Treasurer, elected by the student body. A 2/ 3 vote is needed for ratification. The second item is the Election Information: The Junior Class Representative to the Student .Forum is a tWo-year post and only present Juniors · (cla.ss of 1977) are eligible to run, sign petitions of nomination, and vote~ In order to run; a Junior candidate must pick up the nominating petition in the Student Activities office, have 105 Juniors sign the petition, and return the petition by the due · date. Petitions are available in the student activities office. The third item will be a Continued on Page 13 Cheating: A way of college life? by MICHAEL AFFINITO Done. much cheating lately? A survey conducted by a Sociology class at SUNY of Albany inS.icated that cheating is a defmite problem. Across the nation college administrators ar~ addressi'ng themselves to the issue of academic dishonesty. The Law Center at Georgetown University in Washington has gone so far as to revoke a law degree because of an incident of cheating and plagiarism. ln 1975 the University of Florida's honor court conducted an investigation of a cheating ring involving 200 students. Methods The mechanics of cheating are not foreign to anyone. They run the gamut from blatant to intricate and concealed. The most common form of cheating, acco.rding to the SUNYA survey, is simply glancing at another student'!!'~ paper durin~ an exam. This also appears to be the case at Union, according to the response from a random survey conducted by Concordiensis. Other methods employed at Union include cribbing of various ,forms, plagiarism which includes copying of secondary source material and reusing papers from past courses - pre- arranged seating for purposes of .cheating, and books strategically placed for use while visiting the bathroom during exams. Stu-dents responding .to the Concordy survey cited several incidents of use of all these methods. Among the most popular were crib sheets between the legs or taped to ~he back of calculators, exchanging exam papers, and q1rrying outlines of essay questions answers into exams. The -· frequency of cheating appears to be directly related to the type of exam given. Multiple choice exams are most susceptible, with math and essay type tests following. The Albany State survey backs this by its finding that cheating varies across divisions and that this is due to the difference in testing methods of the various departments. Motivations for Cheating The reasons behind cheating seem to be well--defined and firmly rooted. Results of Concordy's survey have students and professors alike citing competition for grades, laziness on the part of the students, poor proctoring in exams and the .. everyone does it\ attitude as reasons for the existence of cheating. One professor broke down the whys of cheating into four separate categories: \institutional (Everybody at Union does it.), functional (I need good grades to get into professional schools, etc.), social (The Society ts Contuiised on Paae 9 The most common form of cheating involves the traditional glimpse at other students' exam papers.

Page2 ' . ' . . . . . . ' . . . . . . . . . . . . ' . ·. . . . . ~ . . . Wind ensemble Reynolds chosen Asst. Comptroller revived WiHard G. Reynolds, HI, has been appointed assistant to the comptroJ:Ier. Among Reynold.s' respon- sihilities in his new post, 1:1nder the supervision of Comptroller · Dale Timberlake, are management of the college's total insurance program, analyzing methods and procedures in billings, purchasi~g and payment of invoices for more efficient service, administering the financial reporting related to all external grants, managing the space r e q u ir em en t s of administrative personnel, and t'he preparation and control of budgets. An attempt is currently being waged by Professor E. W. Waters and a group of interested students on campus to revive the Union College Wind Ensemble. In an effort to re-establish instrumental band music on campus, a small group of students have held a series of preliminary meetings, and a full meeting of all thoese students who are interested is scheduled for Thursda;, February 12th at 7:30 in Memorial Chapel. Several selections have already been chosen, and a large turnout of campus musicians is hoped for at the Thursday eveing meeting. According to Professor Waters,· all of the musicians on campus should consider joining the group, regardless of their degree of excellence or the amount of time that has lapsed since they last played alone or with a group. Within the small group fo organizers, there is hope that the organitation will blossem, and that from it s~:veral other groups wil'l emerge. Plans for a Jazz Ensemble and a Marching Band for Sports events can he realized fi enough student support is shown. Reynolds, 32, comes to Union from Peat, Marwick, Mitchell and Co., in Albany, where he served as a certified public accountant doing auditing and consulting work since 1971. Verbal skills contest A Student Paper Contest, devised to offer the undergraduate IEEE student members opportunities to excercise and imp.rove both written and verbal communi- cation skills, will be held on Febmary 26, 1976 at 2:00 p.m. at Bailey Hall, Rm. 102. Money prizes awarded by the IEEE Student Branch of Union College will be: 1st place ~ $25.00; 2nd place - $15.00; 3rd place- $10.00. To be eligible, an entrant for the contest nmst have completed and submitted an application for membership in the IEEE. The entrant inay collaborate with a group of not more than three students/ authors who all meet the above requirement. The first 2 winners from Union College will be provided with partial travel expenses to .attend the Regional contest to be held in April, and shall compete in the Regional contest for the following awards: 1st place - $200.00; 2nd place - $100.00; 3rd place $50.00. The wi!.:~.Es.' _r_apers _ _!Vill be published in the \IEEE STUDENT PAPERS.\ 1976 Since the paper contest's primary function is to improve the engineering student's communicative skills, no student should be discouraged from entering th<r contest due to a false requirement of technical sophistication. Start wor-king now!!! For more information, see Prof. Gajjar or Prof. Williams of the Electrical Engineering Departm~nt, Steinmetz Hall. Reynolds, a 1965 graduate of Union College who majored in economics, spent a year with Chubb and Son, a New York City insurance firm, after graduation. In 1966, he enlisted with the US Navy, where he served as an operation officeL He was discharged in 1969 with the rank of lieutenant, junior grade. In that year, he entered the Wharton Graduate Division of the University of Pennsylvania. He received his M.B.A. with a t;najor in corporate finance in 1971. Reynold's father, Willard G. Reynolds Jr., is a 1937 graduate ·of Union. Reynolds and his wife, Margaret, have two children, Alexander and Margaret. Marxist course Much of the coursework offered by Union's Economics Department provides students with a- good preparation for business school. But a course to be offered this spring, by Visiting Professor Richard Edwards, is designed instead to prepare them for the inevitable cns1s of capitalism. (Edwards will also be on campus next Tuesday for a lecture in Strauss Lounge). The spring term course, tilled \The Political Economy of American Capitalism,\ grows out of Edwards' years at Harvard an<l at U-Mass (Amherst). As a graduate student at Harvard, Ed wards first developed his Marxist perspective. There he met Thomas Weisskopf and Michael Reich, taught a course in \radical economics\ with them, and collaborated with them in writing The Capitalist System: A Radical Analysis of American Society. At U-Mass's Amherst campus, he finds himself in the company of more than half a dozen economists who share his analytical approach. _ . Bruce Reynolds, of Union's Economics Department, characterizes Edwards as \young bright, and very articulate. His underlying assumptions are diametrically opposed to those we teach here. I anticipate an intellectually challenging jnteraction between Edwards and our students.\ Edwards is already widely published, with two books and numerous journal articles to his credit. While still a graduate student, he was awarded the prestigious Cole Prize for the best article published in the Journal of, Economic History in 1970. ;::,cnedule for Art Symposium to be aired on WRUC at 7:30 p.m. starting Thursday, February 5. Feb. U Feb. 17 Feb. 19 Feb. 24 Graves; Nichols Enteman; Scaife Freund Smith (Barry) Graphic competition The National Scholarship Trust Fund of the Education Council of the Graphic Arts industry announces the annual Graphic Communications Fellowship Competition. The awards will be made for research study in one or more disciplines or fields of study such as, but not limited to, the fo Ilowi ng: .rna the rna tics, chemistry, physics, industrial education, engineering, and business technology, provided the area of study has potential application in the printing, publishing, and packaging industries. rHE INDIVIDUAL WHO WALKED OFF WITH MY CARRY-ALL BAG FROM 014 Social Sciences between 4 p.m. and 6:45 p.m. last night can keep it. However, I would prefer that he return the valuable thesis materials that were inside it, as they are essential. Return it to the lost and found office or call Steve, 372-5713. No questions asked. Fellowship awards range from $1000 - $3000. Pre-registration materials for spring term 1975-76 wil! be available at the Office of the Registrar, Room 2, Administration Building, beginning Monday, February 23rd. Students are urged to promptly secure their copy of these materials. Students who do not plan to return to Union for the spring term, except .for graduating seniors, must immediately give notice of their plans to the Office of the Dean of Students. Students should confer with Faculty Advisers during the week of February 23-27. Some departments may announce special arrangements for advising. Please .be alert for such announcements. Course requ«!sts are due at the Office of the Registrar not later than Monday, March 1st. ·. A TEN DOLLAR ($10.00) LATE FEE WILL BE ASSESSED THEREAFTER. Ask Procter & Gamble what you can do with your BA degree! You could become the advertising/marketing manager for one of these P&G products! Although only 5 are shown here, Procter & Gamble makes more than 50 well-known, well-advertised consumer brands. For each brand, there is a small management group, usually just 3 people, totally responsible for planning, creating and supervising everything that is done to increase consumer acceptance of their brand. The group is headed by a Brand Manager, an important level of management in our company. Right now, we're looking for a few highly qualified college seniors with the potential to become Brand Managers. You would start at our Cincinnati headquarters as part of a brand group for a specific brand, perhaps one of those shown here. To help you learn quickly, your Brand Manager would give you challenging assignments of increasing responsibility in various key marketing areas such as TV advertising, package design, special promotions, budget planning and analysis, and market research. The emphasis would be on you, your ideas, your ability to contribute. You'll be promoted on the basis of merit alone. It's not uncommon to become a full Brand Manager within 3-4 years. Since you will begin to manage from the day you join us, we're looking for \take charge\ people with outstanding records of leadership while in college. ''Superior aca~emic achievement\ \innovative\, \a record of being able to get things done\ and \good oral and written communi- cations skills\ are some of the words we use to describe the oeople we want. If this kit'ld of work mterests you and you think you qualify, please send me your .resume. Ms. Sandy Moersdorf The Procter & Gamble Co. Advertising Personnel P.O. Box 599- Dept. FM Cincinnati, Ohio 45201 An Lqua. Jpportunity Employer

the all the of t>he of of j in City us an was the of a G. CONCORDIENSIS, Wednesday, Feb. 11, 1976 Bookstore future viewOO The Bookstore Committee has completed a series ·of meetings with Hal G!'een, the manager of the Bookstore, and the Student Forum. As previously reported in Concordiensis, the purpose of these meetings was to inform Mr. Green of student needs and the Student Forum of the preblems restricting ·expanded operation of the Bookstore. Members of the Student Forum asked Mr. Green about a variety of stock item suggestions. In response to a suggestion that the Bookstore sell a wider var:iety of newspapers and magazines, Mr. Green said it had been tried in the past, but was unsuccessful because st\ldents read the magazines in the store rather than buying them. His predecessor was forced to discontinue the practice because it was losing money. . In response tc;> a question on the toiletries sec~ion of t-he store, Mr. Green said most students would rather walk to Two Guys for the lower price which he is unable to compete with because of low volume. Answedng inquiry about the new cash registers, Mr. Green stated that the previous registers were 19 years old and the cost of maintaining them made it impractical to keep them. In addition, the new registers can be programmed to provide more detailed breakdowns of purchases for stoc;k controL They can also be used for a 'credit card' system Small business course .. Proprietors of small businesses ate a dedicated and !lard-working. group, says Martih Caplan, who has run his owri business for 26 years. \But all too frequently,\ says Caplan, \they are poorly versed in the operation of their business.\ Many don~t know the right questions to -ask, or if they do know the right questions, ''they don't know where to find the answers.\ To help entrepreneurs and management personnel find the right questions and the answers Union College arranged for Mr. Caplan to teach a non-credit 12-session course called \Effective Operation of the Small Business.\ It will be offered evenings by Union College's Office of Graduate Studies and Continuing Education beginning Tuesday, March 30, meeting once a week for 12 weeks from 7 p.m. to 9 p.m. The fee will be $85. Caplan, a 1943 graduate of Union, is president and founder of Concord House, the first furniture store in the country to carry an exclusive Ethan Allen line. More than 250 establishments have since followed Caplan's lead. Caplan is also an attorney, having graduated from Albany The Jewish Cultural Society is sponsol'ing a brunch, · followed by a provoca~ve film and discussion on . American Jewish identity. All are welcome. Sunday, Feb. 22, at 12:00 in Strauss Lmmge. Law Scbool in 1948, and a real estate broker. Furthermore, he has had considerable experience as a lecturer, having taught programs on merchandising and administration. \One thing which we want to make the class aware of is some of the danger signals which forewarn trouble in the business. Then we will explain the steps that can be taken to resolve the problem,\ says Caplan. Further information about the course and other credit and non- cre.dit offerings at Union College is available by phoning or writing the Office of Graduate Studies and Continuing Education at Wells House, Union College Grounds, Schenectady, N.Y. 12308. The phone number is 370- 6288. Historic preservation The National Trust for Historic Preservation will offer Historic Preservation Writing Awards for students. The awards will be given for an unpublished essay and poem on the subject: \Out of Many, One- Preservation in the Bicentennial.\ Entries may be philosophical or critical of historic preservation and its relation to the Bicentennial. Each award consists of a citation and a stipend of $250;00. The winning entries-- may be published in the National Trust quarterly magazine. Historic Preservation.· Entry deadline is April I, 1976 . Interested students can obtain further . information from the Office of Placementkand career Co~~sel~ng. T~is Saturday. Night Febe 14th DISCO • m the Directors Lab Theatre located under Cabaret in Carnegie The music starts at 9:30 P.M. Immediately after the Basketball Game. FREE ADMISSION with students' ID cards, should the college decide. Many members of the Student Forum wete concerned about the pfoblem of keeping books in stock at ,the beginning of the term. Mr. Green cited several problems he had in estimating book orders. These included out of print books, slow orders from professors, and the fact that Union College has an extra- ordinar.i,ly high rate of course changes after pre-registration. Mr. Green told us that he pI an ned to . have m ore promotional sales such as the current sale of 'F' records at $3. 99. It appears that the main problem ef the Bookstore at this t·ime is restricted sales space. This keeps the variety of stock low. Also to be considered is the Trustees' requirement that the Bookstore oper.ate at least at a break-even point. Members of the Bookstore Committee are: Steve Levine, 370-6484, Nancy Levinthal, 377- 1589 and Blair Reischer, 377-6716. We appreciate and welcome comments, advice and suggestions. tion Plans for the improvement of the bookstore are now under way. Forum. discusses class action , Saga, and Voice by HOPE J. FABIAN As go personalities, so goes government. The Student Forum meeting of· February 4 began with the topic of class action cases. Class action cases are those in which the student opposes aspects of Union College, such as Saga, or the housing office. The controversy was over whether the Student Forum or the Conduct Ombudsmen Committee (a SENIORS VOTE Nominations for the Class of 1976 Representative to the Alumni Council have closed. On February 5th, ballots were sent via campus mail to all seniors. Those nominated are: Joel Buckberg, Cindy Wolfson, Paul Spence, John Glover, Judy Dein, and Paul Barnard. All seniors are urged to vote. Vote for one person. All ballots must be signed. Ballots may be cast in person or by mail only at the Alumni Office; Lamont House. Ballots must be received no later than 4:30, Friday, February 27. The candidate receiving the most v·otes will be the representative, with the runner-up serving as alternate. Both persons will be invited to .. all Alumni Council meetings starting this Spring. Subsequent elections will occur at each fifth year reunion. Remember, these people will provide a major link between \ you and the college after graduation. Please vote!! grievance board and student court body) takes responsibility for these dilemmas. The question of the student body versus the Student Forum arose, but was considered a technicality. A vote was taken for representatives of class action cases to be handled by the Student Forum and the motion passed. Andy Koblenz next spoke on Saga and the food committee. A ten week period allowing for improvements is being granted to give Saga \a chance.\ The major areas of needed Improvement were listed as: I) better menu and variety, 2) communication with students, 3) restructuring of options program, 4) expansion of facilities. 1f this list is not adequately met by the fifth week of spring term, the Student Forum feels it is within its rights to look elsewhere. A 15-~inute Debate The next issue brought before the Forum involved a IS-minute debate and vote on the Campus Voice. The vote taken last week was considered invalid since the Student Trustees, Chris Taylor (who proposed the vote) and Geoff Taylor, were not notified of a change in meeting til}1e and consequently did not attend. Some of the attacks against the Voice were justified. Apparently, the paper's staff never asked Concordy about including investigative reporting or the idea of revising the constitution. The idea also arose that the Voice would set a new precedent and others would desire a second * * * radio station, theatre group, etc.; at a time when a cut-back in expenses is imperative. Four points were presented by Geoff Taylor: I) investigative reporting has in the past (with AI Rich as editor) been done in Concordy; 2) there is no guarantee that a second paper will result in a balance rather than an overlapping; 3) the Concordy constitution provides that the staff can override the editors on issues and if necessary, impeach; 4) a second paper would be a needless repetition for a campus of this size. In defense of these arguments, the Voice representatives reiterated that investigative reporting would be guaranteed. Also, if .such a large number of students are interested (as demonstrated by the petitions) then it is the Forum's responsibility to recognize and fulfill these needs. A proposition that the Campus Voice be considered a sanctioned and funded club was passed by a vote of 1 0-to-6, with two abstentions. Its budget :will be $1380 and it will be printed once a month. Judy Dein, representing the Campus Voice, described the paper as having the sole purpose of investigative reporting - the \Why's\ instead of the \What's.\ She made three points as to why the Campus Voice should not be part of Concordy: I) the Campus Voice constitution guarantees investigative reporting on campus; 2) a five-person editorial board broadens its base and invites new people to write, hence providing options and attracting other people and other opinions; 3) the two papers can act as a check for each other and fill a larger variety of needs. As evidence of the students' desire for this paper, petitions with 500 signatures were presented. . .. All student$ interested in being considered for the position of Resident Advisor in 1976-77 should fill out an application form In the Housing· Office before Wednesday, March 10. Early applications will be apppreciated. Late applica- tions for good reasons will be accepted.

Page4 CONCORDIENSIS, Wednesday, . .Fe}J .. LJ,.J976 Concordiensis: An historical by MICHAEL AFFINI'fO In 1961 Concordiensis was heralded by The New York Times as \the best American college weekly.\ In this, our bicentennial year, it is only fitting that we look back at the only Un.ion publication which has been printed continuously from the 19th century to the present. Concordiensis will be 100 years old in November of 1977; but it is still not the first literary publication to have circulated the Union College campus. John Howard Payne, composer of \Home Sweet Home,\ was sent to Dr. Nott's \seminary\ by a ,guardian who felt the need to keep the boy away from the \increasing and desolating affects of democracy.\ He began, early in 1807, publication of The Pastime. The Pastime was hardly a newspaper, but rather assumed a role akin tg that of a magazine. If our accounts are accurate, this was the second publication ever to emanate from an under- graduate institution, preceded only by a now defunct Dartmouth publication. The pages of The Pastime were filled with romantic poems, translations of classical works of literature, essays, and the grandiose poetry of Mr. Payne. The Pastime's publishing history was a short one. Three years later it gave way to The Floripd, but the only thing that changed was the name. The page~.. still laqguished ·in the romantic' air of the nineteenth century and much of what appeared in the new magazine had already been inked to page in The Pastime. The Floriad managed to survive publication for 14 issues, then faded from sight. On June 15, 1827, the first issue of The Student Album came off the presses, displaying a format of tales frolJI gothic literature. \Le Solitare\ was one of .these tales and begins thus: \There is a calm, unearthly feeling that permeates the soul, at the still hour of I midnight, when universal nature is slumbering in the arms of ! repose; when the busy and the bustling scenes of day are over; and the mind collected within itself, feels the bright glow of intellectual joy, which is known only to. the .m_ind of the sentimental and the refined.\ Ap.parently the au(lience of The Student Album did not meet- these specifications, for its first issue was its last. The next 50 years saw numerous publications storm into and fade out of the campus eye. Perhaps the most noteworthy of these journalistic attempts was The Parthenon, a magazine which still was tainted with the poetry of the time, but had a constitution which demanded it be acknow- ledged favorably. The Parthenon Acknowledgments to Cadman Hislop \37\ for information found in his Coneordiensis: An Informal History and to past Coneordy editors for their contributions to Concordiensis. was first published in November of 1832 and by 1896 had been phased out and reinstated four times; its last run of publication lasted until 1934. It was one of the most ambitious campus publications ever to be produced anywhere. Standing on sha l<y legs, Concordy sera ped together enough money to cover .printing costs · and maintained sufficient student interest so that ten years later it had become firmly established. departed from its magazine format and assumed the look of.a newspaper. Knight had an intense love for newspaper work. During his term as editor the paper came out thrice weekly, with a' literary supplement every fourth issue. Knight once commented, \The horrible task of getting out a paper every other day, along. with such extra~curricular activities as passing college courses, wound me up with a permanent nervous breakdown.\ Knight went on to become an associate editor of the Concordy Goes to Press In November, 1'877, Concordiensis, through the combined .efforts of the students of Union, managed to make its debut as a college-mo~thly. By 1890 Concordy switched from a monthly to a semi- monthly format, and by 1896 was weekly. Ralph Knight In 1916, under the leadership of Ralph Knight, 'l7, Concordiensis THE CONCORDIENSIS. VoL .. I. ScHENECTADY, N. Y,., NovEMBER, 1877. No. 1.: LITERARY. • the army when none but royalty could hop~ for --------~----------' promotiop, he advanced slowly at first ; but A REVERY. Is mauer all? Goes soul for naught? Do all o1u aspirations and our doubts, Do all these subtle, winged thoughto;, Leave trace behind tllem none'? When in yon tuneful, odorous wood, We wal~ alone anu calmly muse, Do .perfume~ cheer and mus1c move, But solitude's inspiring thoughts More fleeting, useless prove ? When yonder setting sun sets fire To all the drapery of cloud, Docs color's influ.ence leave no touc.b 0 n us, ~s on the le:1 ves ? Do our resolves an,d honest t,ria:is, Do moral viet' ties bravely wo.n, Does patience long and charity Exert no influence so great, As motions physical ? Be praise! man's·innerlife does tell, Upon the world witlwllt full well. Each hoJ:le, each fear. ear.h .secret thought, Each beauteous scene, en th\tsi~t's dreain. Each purpose formed, each· vow well kept, Has strength .t.o l:1cst ten tho~sand years, Has power to shape e'en adamant. They make the man, man ·rules the world. They all are te~l. they only real. MARSHAL NEY. First Ju11ior Prize Oratio1z. JAMES COSLETT SMITH, JR. after <;qua l'ity of rights was restored, his rise was·ra,pid. We see him in Napoleon's battles . along the Rhine; at Worms and Frankfort; at Stuttgard and Zurich. Again, he is Minister · to S*itzerland, and shortly afterward a M~r- • 3hal of France. With courage Ney combined coolness and sound judgment. In the heat of battle he stood in marble ca;lmness, observing every mov.eJ!lent .and never erring in his commands. These qualities won his soldiers' h~arts. He led men· .where no other general could. Time and again did Napoleon place in Ney's hands the fate of the Empire. Of the numero\Qs titles conferred upon this hero, the worthiest was that of\ Brav- est of the Brave\; to win. this name from Mu- ~rat, Macdonald and Lannes wa:s great ~lory. A p~.e fro.in the Marshal's life wiU ilhtstrate his characth : · Moscow was taken. 'The--;bt.mting to:Wf!-rs . wer_.e fia~1ng- on. the .night; houses were fafling ~·• walls were crashin·g ·down. With forty thou- sand men Neywas detailed to cover the retreat. The soldiers suffered terribly. At every step ,some one ·succumbed to the weary march and pinching cold. Those behind stumbled over · the bodies of those who had preceded. Many, ·in despair, threw away their arms and lay dmvn to die. Clouds of croaking ravens hovered ·near. !he wolves howled amid the snow. The winter wind whistled through the cold pines. MrcliAEt NEY was a soldier by inheritance. The driving snow cut thf: very flc~h. At night His fatht;:r served in the Seven Years' war, and the soldiers lay down about their fires, and the ' <tt his father's knee he listened to the tales of morning found circles of dcacl men in thei.r valorous deeds that thrilled his soul and fed places. Ney·s forty thuusand men became fif- 1 . his inherent longing to be a soldier. teen hundred. Still he struggled on, himself Ncy could boa~t no lofty lineage. Entering gnawed by pang,.; of hunger, his heart bleeding Page one of the first issue ofConcordiensis. In its first years Concordy was more a literary magazine than a newspaper. D;EWITT'S LUNCH Opposite New City Hall 118 Jay Str~t ·Believe /1 or Not/ I I ' ,· ' J.' • ,' Saturday Evening Post, his efforts well rewarded. Evolution Of ~ Paper The passing of Concordy from editor to editor has not had a profound effect · on editorial policy. In 1892 this editorial appeared: \lt is a curious but very deplorable fact that so many things at College are run by cliques and societies.'' In its own small way Concordy tried to fight this by offering a $25 .. 00 prize for the best College song written each yea·r. For the year 1937 the song was chosen, but the· .J?rize money was never collected. {The song and authors appear on the opposite page) .. It was decided that the award should then be given to someone, so it was handed over to the player on the basebaU team with the highest batting average. Contordy's Role The major point of discussion about Concordy has always been whether the paper ought to be responsible for printing national news. The history of how this dilemma was handled by each editor(s) is.hest found in the pages of past Copcord~ts. Robert Galvin, '61, did a more than acceptable job of handling national affairs, and in February, 1961, Concordiensis received a national award for journalism from the NCPA, the highest aware!. attainable by a college newspaper. Ironically enough, two weeks later, publication of Concordy was suspended by the Student Council over disagreement with Galvin's editorial policy. The administration took a neutral stand in the controversy, saying that the fight was between tWo student factions and entirely of student origin. The Student · · Council, of its own accord, . rescinded the ban. . Galvin's - .. comment was, \A victory- was •won for Union o,nege. The issue at hand was suppre.Ssion of a free press. The press has been restored.\ Concordy has endured much criticism, rearranging, and on occasion has received a liUle praise as it enters its 99th calendar year of publication. For two decades the phrase ~'when a cause is lost,. word& are useless\ appeared on the Concordy masthead. Today, perhaps even more, the phrase applies but the • paper endures. The reason is best summed up in a small verse which appeared in the \Clatter Column\ of a 19 I 4 issue of Concordy: It's great to be an editor, And sit up late at night, And scratch your wool And shoot the bull, And write, anp write, and write .. Hot Noon Day Luncheons 25cents \'fflERE o', ONE HRI\'lfl or ~ouc ,,.~ .. ,'[ \~ r,c .. rtn ... ~<',f._., oD l CNCsi ;. ·.o~.\~, l~•'f l-.' 1'£ t1c, '('HIS SAME: P.RMO oF F'\OUNTI\I'l PEN IIA'> \[t'I'<T TH.~T WR17E':> TWO WAYS· ; .• \orll'al .i'o•_.,' '\ ~ Wr.h..-. TASTY SINGLE AND DOUBLE DECK SANDWICHES We Have Weekly Breakfast Prices- The Quality or Quantity of Our Food Con Not Be Compared Amid Pleasant Surroundings - Next to the High School- Our New Location MURRY'S Caterer of Fine Foods for 10 Years to CoDege Students Yet- MADE 50 iT HOLDS /()2 '\'. /'lORe I I'll(/ F\r or folEDIUfo1 oo 8ROAD- rvrrt.>O. o .. er It Wn[t'~ a rt:Vf. or EXTRA FIN£ HAIR LINt ',1'(.\ol THE INK WITHIN- ~ SHOW WH£N To REFILL 1 I ~ n~~ ~~vrH'I•ng Df'l 1.'\t •,on1q Cnl~t.:al Mt>!\\(lnt LAMINATED- BUILT U~ RING UPON RtN<; OF !>HIMME:RIMG PEARL 1\MD JET, OP. 'I ' PEARL ANO TR~NSPARENT AMBER, .r.·\i~~: ·Who\h Look• Lok<>P~~rlon&Jd ~ (f'Ji\;.t·. wh•n Fol\ocl woth lhk. • ~ ;~~,: r STYLED FOP. THE SMARTEST PEOPLE .. ,~,\~···· . · '. ' ~IP' . '

efforts y from had a very many by own fight for each song money e. song the hen be it was on the highest been to be this y each pages Robert than ling a highest college of by the over The neutral saying tWo irely of Student accord, was issue free been much on a little 99th For 'when a useless\ ps even but the is best which ite, and INCi OF JET, OP. AMBER, on.!Je.t k. PEOPLE -· l -1 P•c.rr I I F(!olu•f!', \: Mu-~i~ B 1 Mr!rrpn CONCORDIENSIS, Wednesday, Feb. 11, 1976 • • r trnsts Page5 Union Greets 250 Prom G1:1ests C:\LU::-1' COLLEGE, SCHENECTADY, N.Y., I•'HlDAY.l\lAY 14,1937 Calllplls Spruced Up for Prom ' . Russ Morgan Provides Music For 6 0 0 Happy Revelers Bo·ard Elects New Slate Of Publications Chiefs ' . ~ ~----- Gilmour Chosen Business Manager of Concordiensis • Stevenson Editor Ga·rnet; Yunich, Coleman ' And Liebman Also on Gamet Board Wednesday, May 12.-Eight appointnwnl:~ ttl erlitol'ial aiHl manage!·inl p<~sition::; on ~illll{>tl~ tnlhlicaticm:~ Wt:>l'e madt.> to- day b~· the Puhlicatiun:; P.oarrl. Flllil' nwmbet·:~ nf tlw senim· ~·d uf The Concot•<liensis wel'e de~ign<ltt•d i'cll' definite posts. Selection nf il ill'\\' Idoi hnanl was J)o~tpolwtl until 'tollext Wednesday. ''' - 1'\ Dou~las ·o. Sto•venson ·39·. wali seleeted as editol'-iil-chlef of ·the •;-·------. --------- 1939 Giu·net, David Yuni~li '39. o 1 •·~ 1 • 1 ,., ·~ 1la 1 , , managing editoR\; Stanley Lhibman \ \ .. :~ .. ' 1 fl/t4 r ·se. pho~!)l!raphlc editoz,; and ,c~ 1·1 Coleman '39, bu!ltness manage1·. . , . John H.. Gilmol!r :as wa\ · !\?\ . • pointed buslne\\ mnnagl'l' or 'l'he Concordlensi\' Definite po8itions · weu a.tllligned foUl recently elected members of the o;~nioa· boa•·d. Rob- ert H, Fea·guson '38. ~comes man- aging editor, Carl R. Tl'llhman '38 sports edltor, Julius J. Bundgu~ '38 news editor, Henry HaJ·tmann '38 · reature edltor. Three. men were ~ppointed. to the editorial board. of the new fresh- man year book of which Edmond Arundel '3S iN editoa·. 'They include Robert Wallet· '39, William O'Con. nor '39 and Al W1·ana '40. OllieJW R«ord~ Douglas 'Stevenson ha• bpen ac- tive in the .Mountebanks and has contt·ibuted to a column in The Concol'lliensls this yea~:. A resident of Brooklyn, ·he is a member of the Psi Upsilon· f1·aternity. He played ft eshrnan football and has bpen frequently on the Dena's List. David Yunich is a member· of the News Bur·eau and catches for· var- sity baseball. A •·esident of Olbany, · ·he Is a meml:le•· or Kappa Nu. A member of The Concoa·dlensis bus- lnes~ ~taft, Stanley I.lebman is a . resident of Poughkeepsie and a member or the Kappa Nu fl·ater- nity. Carl P. Coleman or Troy Is a member of Psi Upsilon. He played rreshma.n lacrosse and hockey. Robel t Walter, Psi Upsilon, is u member of the junior board of The Concordlensis. A Dean's List man, he played. freshman lac1>0sse, He is a member of the Debating Team. His home Is Detroit, Michigan· ,JOHN H. GIJ,MOUR The weath~1· for the week- <'lld: Cool with considerable clearing this afternoon and to- night with an cxct'llent possi- bility of •un~hine before •un- set this evening. Tomonow, fail' and sonwwhat war·me1·. P1·ofe,.sor E. S. C. Smith, Union's Master :M~t<'lu·ologist. expressed some doubt as to th~ accua·acy of his forecast. Hi< 1'ep01·t. he says, may be ll<'V- eral ·hou1·s attead of .tim<' Our Junior Prom Girl Moulton.and WranaNamed Winners In Gene-ral Schuyler Song Contest. \\'ORUS BY Ar.A,.,; ·C. \VRAliA '39 MUSIC BY EooAR MouUON '37 VERSE Oh, Up .aT1oVt the Mohav;k River i11 Srllentctady, /Jirt~ Rrwuyrr rwith fur,,sight plairr hllilt his. academy. '/'lu·lt o11 the sre11r came Philip Sdmyler aud to Dirclt said ilr, \f'm· till' StJkr of kuu•olt·Jgt• build a col/rqe for postaity.\ -CIIORUS Rllist )'our voia to Gt•rr'rat Sdu•yltr. .flt''s a mau of fiuhting fmnl'. William D. O'Connor of Holyoke, Massachusetts, is e/membet' of the Chi· Psi t.raternlty. AI Wrana has .been active In the :Mountebanks and I• a member of.tbe circulation lltaff or 'Tile Concord~•· ·-------,--------. A Favorite Trysting Place Mart thau til a'/ lie fouuJtd liJtiotr· :lnd dl'scrvcs o11r loud acdai 111. /:Oliff mtl}' {:uiofl sitl~· lli1 praises. Shoal tlu·m <;:ith t1 v.·,/1! T/11'11 lrl us sitU/ to lh~ fai/WIIS /olllloft-r Uj tilt' \C:o/11'!1': 1111 /Itt /Jill\ Yf.~SE }/ 1 • ynl tiJt· btdiaus' ~~·rmiSsitJII ou tlll'ir Jmr~{s 1, lntiU. lit' tr,L'I\Ult' 11 yn'lll-f'l'ltlirw Jot ow· r,ift•tJr' uti tlu hill. 'Tv..•tts jrfJIII Jft,• l'11irm_oj Jill' P~'~Jf1/r• llt:t' nc~·iv~·~ltwr uanu, .111.1 tu Gt'lll'l'tll 1'11;/ip Sdwyll'r <u:l' 11i·VI' tlwnks for l'uiun's nallit. ('noRL'S \ Rc)wnt) ®--------------------------- Thutsdny,, May 13.-Edgar L. Moulton '37, and Alan C. Wt:ana will share in th.e· prize mon<'y by the Concordien\is for th<' best song written in hono1· of · Genet al Philip ·schuyler, who \·founded Union and d•;.erves our loud acclaim,\ it was announced · today by No1 man R. St<'Wal t, fot·· mer EditoHn-Chief of the Con· col'diensis. Moulton's music was judged to be the beiit of the ei~ht entnes while Wrana's lyric was thought to be more hi~toi icully coil t·rt wtth the result that some difficulty v:as exper:ienccd in attempting to plcl< thf' winning song. Howpver. a.t th£> suggestion .of the juclge.s. V\. tan.~ rewrote his lyric to fit Moulton s metod~· arid th£' winnin~ :;nng' wa~ p1·oduced. . Moulton. atwnys deeply int·e,,e•ted in the musical acti.vities of th• col· lege. has been co-leader of the Glee Club for the past yea1· and hao . been carillon l'lngrr for Daily and sunday Chapel during his four years at Union. He is a member of Delta Upsilon fraternity. . . \Vrnna was a member of the col- lege band dUI·ing his freshman year. He has taug-ht himself to play the piano. and nas wi·itten a number of son~s. mostly for his own amuse· ment. He is a member of the Kappa Nu fraternity and is a member of the Concordiensis Circulation staff. The contest was the 1cesult of the 142m! Founaler's Day celebrations held in February. It was at this celebration ~h.a.t Schuyler was first 1 ccognized as one of the founders of Un-ion. The Concordiensis de• cided to establish General Schuy· lel 's namfr on an equal basis with other important men from Union by offering a prize to the ·one writ· ing the best song in honor of him. .Judge\ for the contest were fG>Ul' in numbet·, two f1·om the faculty and two from the student body. They werP D1·. Charles N. Waldron, Dr. Elmer A. Tidmarsh. Norm\n R. Stewa.rt and S. Ralph Cohen. The reason for much of the delay in announcing the winnei• was the fact that Dr. Waldron was forced to be absent from the college dur· ing the first part of April. Marine Atmosphere Permeates Alumni Gymnasium, Scene of Annual Junior Affair; Bracelets With Minel'va Seal Given as Favors With the campus dressed in .the gay colors of the sp1·ing seuson ana every fl'aternity house bright with decorations, the entire college will be host to ov.er 250 comely feminine guests tonight. at the Junior Prom of the Class of 1938. Music in the Morgan Manner will issue forth from the nau- tical~Jooking cabin on the ship's .deck, which the gymnasium will represent, as Russ :Morg~n's famous music makers go· th1·oug.h their paces. New Torch Singers With Morgan Orchestra Be1·nice Pa.rks will furnish the female vocal melody when Mo1·gan arrives tonight. She and' two other vocalists will accompany the band of seven- tee!l men, made up of four vi~lins, four saxaphones, two trombones, three trumpets, a piano, Q.rum, guitar, ~nd· bass. Morgan will play both the piano and trombone. Hal'l House will remain open all night tonight, serving refreshments to guests and members of the col- lege until the prom is over. Jack- son's Garden has also been care- fully groomed for the event. Favors are attractive silver braceletB with the Minerva Seal on them. The Prom Commlttee have been working at top speed, under the d,i- I'ection of Chairman Harold B. Ackerman, to complete final ar- rangements, overseeing the work done in decorating th!' gymnasium. The color scheme of the decora- tions will be blue 'and silver, carry- ing out the· sea-going theme. Weekend Progmm The Prom is the highlight of the ·continuous round· of festivities which will bold forth all weekend. This afternoon a baseball game between the varsity nine and the Albany Senators will be played on llllexander Field at 3 o'clock. To- night and tomorrow ~ght at 8:80 o'clock the Mountebanks will give theit· annual Prom production. This year it is \The ·Wind and the Rain,\ a rolllcking comedy of Scot- ish University life. Tomorrow the fraternities take the most prominent part in the ae- tivities with tea dances, dinners and formal dances tomorrow night planned by a majority of them . Tl\e members of the committee, which has worked to Insure a suc- cessful prom, are Chairman Harold B. Ackerman, Hyman Enzer, Ed- ward Barry, Francis Agostini, George Doyle, William Hook, F-red- erick Hawley, Elmer .Johnson and Winterton Day. Professor WUUam W. Bennett, coordinator, assisted the committee in his official and unofficial capacities. (Continued on Page 4) 1'he Concordiensis from Friday, May 14, 1937 featured Jackson's Gardens, The Idol-and the winning song from the General Schuyler Song Contest

Page6 CONCORDIENSIS. Wednesday, Feb. 11, 1976 ' arts Mounties\ 'Tempest\ premiers in l\ fortnight The inside of the Nott Memorial as work on The Tempest progressed several weeks ago. When our photographer recently tried to snap a shot of the nearly complete set, he was swept off his feet, purportedly by an \airy spirit.\ Stephano (Peter Sobol) and Caliban (Bemt~rd Ctn'q) share some celestfalliquor. Enteman Arts at • v1ews Union .. by SUE DRAPER \One of the major concerns is to incorporate art as a total poart of the cuniculum .. Provost Willard Enteman In an interview with Concordy Provost Enteman stated the Administration's policy concerning the future of the Arts at Union. He outlined the steps to be taken in defining and establishing an arts program that would have an impact for the next 15-20 years. As an initial step, President Bonner, Hugh Allen Wilson (Chairman of the Arts Department) and Provost Enteman met February 6th to choose a visiting committee of consultants to evaluate the Arts at Union. Enteman emphasized that the committee would be comprised of people familiar with the situation of the Arts Department at colleges similar to Union. The objective of the visiting committee is to cornpil~ an advisory report defining a feasible arts program. Establishing the priorities of the Arts Department is preliminary to discussion of the possibility of a new arts building. The advantage in having a visiting committee is that it allows Union to obtain an \objective viewpoint from people detached from the college community''. Enteman explained. After consideration of the report, an agreement must be reached between the Arts Department and the Administration as to the needs of the Arts Department. Consequent recommendations will then be subject to the endorsement of the Educational Planning and Priorities Committee. In the next step, the Development Office must be consulted on how much money could be raised. And, finally, the Board of Trustees must authorize a funding campaign. No deadline could be given on the outcome 9f the necessary bureaucratic procedure. \Unfortunately the major impact of a new Arts program would not be on any students who are now here,\ Enteman said. He reminded that, \To m.ove to fast means superficial solutions. It is the Administration's aim to move carefully.\ Provost Enterrian disputed the rumor of competition over funding between the proposed arts and gym buildings. \The funding sources are totally different,\ he pointed out, \the kind of person who would donate money to a new gym complex is not the type who does the same for a new arts building.\. Apparently, there are people who have committed themselves to funding a new arts building. \Yet if there were an alumni like Mr. Achilles who would donate a few million solely for the use of an new arts complex, we would have no problems,\ Enteman concluded. Psych. discussion The Psychology Department student representatives, Irene Cloney and Gary Mys1;kowski, in conjunction with the Placement and Career Counseling office, will offer a •panel discussion on \Mental Health and Human Service Professions.\ This event will take place at 4:30 pm on Thursday, Feb. 19th in Strauss Lounge; Carnegie Hall. Panel members will represent a variety of fields including counseling and clinical psychology, special education, rehabilitation counseling, student personnel semces, high-school guidance counseling and social work. !!G7llf C/ r .J..agnificent entertainment, sumptuous, lush, gorgeous, thrilling, haunting ... transporting the viewer into a world of long ago, and creating the kind of magic few movies accomplish. ~ ~ Rex Reed, Syndicated Columnist NATIONAL BOARD OF REVIEW e{Best Film of the Year'' Written fonhe screen and dJrected by ~ STAN,bEY 1\YBRIGK starring ~AN O'l'{&ALand'MARg>A \BERtNSON\ IPQJ '@• from Warner Bros QA Warner Com.,·.unlcat!Ons Company r-----------------~-.· MOHAWK ,·MALL NOW FOX COLONIE BALL TOWN ROAD p LAY I N·G WOLF ROAD OPP. MACY'S SCHENECTADY P.H. 3111-1920 1 CO~OMIE PH, 459-1020 L A fl d e ~ n I a

CONCORDIENSIS, Wednesday, Feb.ll, 1976 Page 7 a.rts Film: Liza and Burt get together by JACK PITNEY The most striking feature of Lucky Lady is the photography. A hazy glow permeates every frame of this picture;. evidently, director Stanley Donen and e i hem at o g.r a ph e .r P e t,e. r MacDonald want to imitate the nostalgic look of films such as Summer of '42. But they overdo it: Lucky Lady looks washed-out and overexposed. there. Even though the storyline is ,hackneyed, the three-sided romaf!ce among the leads does provide a few good moments. Burt's klutzy attempts to win Liza from Gene are particularly tunny. Once again, Burt proves that he's an excellent actor who can rise above inferior material. The same can be said of the genre of which it is a part. Ever since The Sting nudge4 its way onto the list 0 f all-time top grossers, the studios have been churning out pictures abo1:1t cute crooks. By now, the formula for such fi'Ims is rather familiar. The good crooks are all .set to make a big score, but the bad crooks get in the . way. Finally, the, good crooks outsmart the villains and Jive happily ever after. Lucky Lady could have been a lot worse. Scenarists Willard Huyck and Gloria Katz had originally written a violent, unhappy ending. Donen filmed that ending, but after vi~wing the rushes, he decided that it woulq be out of place in such a picture. Good move. Lucky ·Lady is a somewhat satisfactoEy caper movie; the infusion of melodrama would have rendered it totally worthless. Interview: . The highlight of the Winter Carnival may just have been North's upset Tug-of- War victory over D. U.. Way to go, persons! ln the ca~e of Lu~ky Lady, the good guys are Burt Reynolds, Gene Hackman, and Liza Minnelli. Their plan is to make a profit off Prohibition by running liquor from Mexico to the United States on a yacht named (surprise!) \The Lucky Lady.\ But the bad guys (John Hillerman and Val Avery) want a monopoly on the business. Therefore, the heroes ... well, you take it from Breslin, politics, and good guys MADISON'S TYPING SERVICE • Reports • · Man~scripts • Tbe5is • R~untes . 433 Liberty St. 372·5841 Sehenectacly ............ The Union College Film Committee Presents Ten Little Indians Tues., Feb. 17 7-9-11 by JACK PITNEY Do elections make any difference? money and they'll steal it. Which is all the more reason that people have to go into politics. There was one watchman in the night in Washington who broke the Watergate case. There's got to be hundreds of thousands of watchmen in the night to watch the American political system. That means you've got to have a tremendous infusion of new people into the system. How well has the press been working in uncovering political corruption? Decently, fairly well. The press prefers victims. They'd rather get somebody weak and nail him, preferably someone who''s trying to mak,e it. But they're not very good at covering corruption that's been handed down· through families ... And in one area of corruption - Watergate - the press was terrible ... Mal!?r corruption, the attempt to take over the United States with Fascist methods -there were only two reporters that covered it: Carl Bernstein and Robert Woodward of The Washington Post. Their stories ran on the newswire all over the country and very few papers used their stories. These· were the only two reporters who were anything for a solid year. Absolutely ... hi 1968, they said there was no difference between Hubert Humphrey and Richard Nixon when they · ran for President. All the smart people, the smart liberals, the elitists said so. They didn't do much work in the election and :Richard Nixon won by 500,000 votes - that's all. And only half the country voted. Under the Democratic Administration of that time, the Attorney General was Ramsey Clark. Under the incoming Nixon Administration, the Attorney General became John N. Mitchell. The Supreme Court c • • judges under the Democratic 0 m p e t 1 t 1 0 n Administration - their names are . ~ . .· · diagnose. Competition obviously does exist among pre-medical students, as it most likely does among most students at Union regardless of their major. How- ever, depending on to whom one speaks, this competitive atmosphere takes on different airs. One thing though, seems certain, as Dr. Roth points out, most Union pre-meds would love to see the situation changed.\ known. Under the Republican ; , Administration, they tried to put .,, Continu~~ from Page 12 up Haynsworth and Carswell. winning.\ Professor Sue Britain· ·And · they wound up with of the: Psychology Depart-· Blackmun, Burger, Rehnquist and ment also agrees that society Powell. There's always a society demands this difference. competitive atmosphere \pre-med .Is corruption in politics students are under too much inevitable? stress. Their attention is focused Yes, it is inevitable, because of on the future and how many slots human nature. It's easy to get there are available in med schools. It's not how you play the game but if you win. The students focus on the end rather than the means. Are they r e a I I y learning? Do they 'really want to become docotrs? Do they realize what the profession entails? Or are they only focusing on the benefits? UNION BOOK Perhaps we can all agree with 'the sentiments express by Professor Girdner that competition is not the answer to the problems of our civilization. Rather, \we need cooperation in our society to solve the many problems at hand.\ Has Two lmp·ortant Messages: Dr. Roth also seems to think that \it's sad, but frequently the pressures these students bring with them are engendered by parents or other outside forces.\ States one pre-medical student at Union, \I realized when I came here that I really didn't want to be a doctor after all. It was my parents' desire; not mine.'' 374-5921 GEORGE'S MUSIC STORE Student Discounts 508 State St. Schenect~dy. 1) Senior statement deadline Monday, }\ebrua 16. is this In summary, the situation at Union is not an easy one to 2) MEETING: Union Committee meeting Book Literary this Monday, · Maurice ·u.·. Grau.bart & Sons --.....,.--.,.....;...--· --·-,'The iay St. Jeweler·· February 16 in Union Book Office (3rd floor Carnegie) at 9:30 p.m. UNION BOOK ~'\'~~~tJ. 'Serving Union For Three Generations' ·1\ Jay St •. ! Quail, Senlce &: . 'itthHVorkmullhlp , HERSHEL .t'IAURICE B .WALTER ////'//./// Why was that so? Because they began to think of themselves as journalists instead of newspapermen, these people in Washington. They preferred to have dinner with news sources rather than ring doorbells and make a hundred telephone calls in a day. · Was Watergate primarily the fault of Richard Nixon or our institutions of government? Aw, no, there's never been anything like this in the history of the nation. No, it was Richard Nixon. Is Richard Nixon an e-vil man? He was certainly acting as an evil man in that situation. I don't know what the true evil is in the totality of his life, but in that situation, yes. Could any of the Democratic Presidential candidates change things for the better? Well, 1 think any Democrat is going to win. I think that's a moot question. If they can get a few people jobs, it's for the better. Why do you think the President can't do this? This President? Because he's worried about the businessmen. He's so business-oriented, he doesn't know anything. He plays golf at the Burning Tree Country Club with the vice-president of · United States Steel. He only knows that type of people. And the mental capacity of a major business executive is startlingly small. They don't know anything about the world. They don't know anything about life. They only know what's good for United States Steel. Well, that's not good for the United States an awful lot of times. The Union College Film Committee presents Amcr(ord FRI., FEB. 13 10 P.M. SAT.-SUN. FEB. 14-15 7-9:15-10:30 $1.00 -

Page8 bad timing \The timing is really bad,\ is how Admissions Director Jay Shupe described it. \We weren't purposely left out,\ is Athletic Director Bruce Allison's explanation. What everyone is talking about is the proposal being brought by Allison to the College Senate Thursday which would permanently seat an Athletics Department member on the Admissions Committee. The proposal provides for the representative to be \elected annually by the professional full time athletic department staff members.\ Allison explains that this stipulation was added because of the nature. qf the de:eartment me.JTIJ?ers 9 work loads. Still, in the past, every representative has been chosen through the Faculty Committee on Committees route: with all but two Athletic Department members lacking faculty status, Athletic representation was seldom formalized. Allison attributes current Athletic Department ommission from the formal Admissions· decision- making process to the Committee's reduced size under the new governance structure. In actuality, though, the Admissions Committee was unchanged m governance revtswns. Shupe explains that in the past, Athletic representation has been basically informal: input on potential inter-collegiate athletes was reviewed with coaches before decisions were made. While feeling that it was \easier to go through the old route,\ he doesn't see \any harm\ in formalizing athletic representation. \The process should be legitimicized,\ he commented, adding that in any case ••no undue influence could be exerted by one member of a committee of 18.\ If an Athletic representative can rarely change an Admissions decision, why must a successful informal process be changed? Should every non- faculty area of the college (like Lamont House and alumni groups) be represented in Admissions decisions? Concordiensis feels Shupe's comment on timing to be the most telling. In a time when Union is at the crossroads of its Athletic future it would be most prudent for the Senate to study Admissions representation with a careful eye. DLM any participantsr The debate over Community Participation may have reached an end. Brian Tucker, on behalf of Student Forum, has made a proposal to the College Senate which seems to be the most equitable solution to the problem. Tucker's proposal is that at the end of each semester students meet with their advisors to fill out a \non-academic transcript\ listing the activities each student is involved with. These transcripts would accompany normal transcripts on all applications to schools and for jobs. It's not a bad idea. Students who want to take the time for various student activities would finally be receiving an official pat on the back from the College. Those who don't wish to get involved are not obligated to do so. It almost seems perfect. Those who get involved are aided by the transcript, those that don't are left unmolested. We urge the Senate to vote yes on this proposal and put Community Participation to rest. MRA -CONCORDIENSIS; Opinion: WRUC Two: .,PETERSOBOL Investigative radio True cooperation will only be achieved when we are also allowed to request assistance from members of the current staff of W R UC. After all, they know the radio business as it is run at the moment, and we feel that any indication of a denial of any of the· cooperation which we have, for the good of the campus, requested, would show on. the part of WRUC's directors, Floyd Saberski .. and Rich Forselius, a deadly lack of humanity, compassion, and trust. fhe following is a proposal which may one day appear before the tax committee: What this cotlege needs is another radio station. WR UC merely reads the news off the teletype. There is tl.o investigative reporting at all. We think that a new radio station devoted to investigative reporting of news stories would complement WRUC and bring greater efficiency to Union radio newscasting. teletype for our initial story ideas. We also feel that, in this time of tight and often imaginary money, an investment of $20,000, which we are requesting, should not be immediately rejected, but that the great benefits which would result should be seen as outweighing a mere monetary expense. Of course we intend to cooperate completely with WRUC on all levels, and we expect that they will also cooperate with us. We will of r-nnrse expect access to their It would also be of great value to the combined efforts of Union rad,io if we were aHowed to use the WR UC production studios for taping interviews, etc. And naturally we would also look forward to having access to the WRUC record library to provide background music for our radio documentaries. In the interest of cooperation, we would even have our office in the WRUC office room. This would allow a maximum of communication opportunities between the two stations. Further benefits to the campus at large would Fesult from our also making use of the WRUC broadcasting facilities, in particular the studio, transmitter, and antenna. Students need not continually retune their radios from one station to another, since they will both broadcast from the same place on the same frequency. As a matter of fact, we could do the campus a great service, and save precious tax dollars, if Floyd and Rich would allow us to run WRUC our way. However, they have continually refused to resign. That's why this campus is in the shape it's in - because we are not running things. We know what's right for you, even if you don't. jar of words against women. It would be a shame if the. self:.proclahned liberato.rs were to compromise their o~n potential by engaging in such\ useless and possibly harmful activities. separat-e yourself from all of us ·~.unoopbisticat¢d f~Ul!t\ you refer · to. Hockey doesn t need your type! · Editors, Coneord:iensis: Sincerely, DRP,and fmnd pat on the back In our last episode of epithets, Misses Dein, Kohn, and Messina struck a devastating blow against their own cause of women's liberation. In calling for increased awareness of the plight of women, these ladies have totally failed to recognize \what's in a name,\ I firmly believe that that the only differences between women and men are lactation and womenstruation. (apoligies to Prof. Baker}; while Mr. O'Connor tried to elucidate the dilemma, the female triumvirate failed to eschew obfuscation. E<titors, C-oncotdiensis: The systematic manipulation of words can alter our perceptions of To the Revolution, Vi a situation. Without changing oonterlts of the \jar to which Mr. o~Connor refers, we can change our beliefs about the • contents merely by changing the who's violent? .... label. The message is simple: if you want to eliminate the women's liberation movement, Editors, Coneordiensis: terminate sexism in the language. Dear CAF ~ Perhaps by looking at other such 'jars,\ we can understand Just as the Union-Buffalo why these ladies have sown the hockey game left a sour ta;te in seeds for their own destruction. your mouth, so sour opinio,n of The contents of one jar is the the game left a bad taste in mine. United States War machine, the You are very quick to blame the label is peace. incident on the referees because Thank God our country no \they lost control. of the game\ longer has a War Department! and \when penalties are not Defense is easier to defend. The assessed, tempers tenfl to become Senate lnte!Hgence Committee heated.\ Yet, you also admit tllat did not uncover any CIA ''hockey is a rough game,\ and I assassination plots, merely contend that tempers may flare executive action, a process of inconsequential of the class of \elimination.\ And the Coup in officiating. in such a rough game. Chile? A former Harvard , (sic) professor explained, \We only As if to prove your argument destabilized ·that country.\ tb!lt the re$,<;. had lost c()p.trql of I've waited a few weeks before I wrote this letter and now 1 feel that I can writ~ it without being disappointed. l can say that l am the Closest to a professional Coneor.diensis watcher that this campus has. Since l am an expert watcher, my opinion is highly valued. Many people in the .past few weeks have run Up to me and asked: \Well what do you tliink about the paper?\ I say in the tone of the wise: \Wait a few weeks and.then l will speak.\ The weeks have come and gone and my friend has again tugged at my arm and asked, \Well what d{) you think, oh wi~?e and wonderful, oh brilliant and a.U knowing?\ I answer, \My low!y peer and pitiable friend, you have asked me this question and now I answer: yes, it is good. It is verY good indeed.\ My friend smiled; he agreed. Sincerely. Robert M.ofidschein We don•t \fight\ communism, .the g~m~, Y<m JSt:ate that we \contain\ communiJsm, Anti .\imruedhiat~ 1 e~~~n fr 1 °~, ~he f,ra:akh,.,, ,s.harlet instead of bringing the country to game- S .· OUlu ve tliiJ;Jlc¢Wi ty . 1Qt I the verge of nuclear war, we. play maliciou,s .use of a. llo¢ke:Y $flQ~; . \brinkmanship a kind of space .yet~ tbi~ Is {iXactly what the: lttlitot,S, CoMOrdknsis: age {)hess. Perhaps if we vieweif officials did. ·.. . . .· .· ...... \ ... · ... · .. •. . . On the Sbadet leuer on Siberia Wat~rgate not as a sutr~titious . 'fhe · ~~~fal~ ~lp-~., ~~Y h~ve , U.a~~ m.tp;rtist1c abilities. . '\breaking and entering,\ but bee~ . . 'Y,lOlt!P,t, ··· .. , but, . n),e All atUSUCv)l\Qeavorsare sUbject rather as a \visitation\ .the~;e conttoV~tSl!d, frg}lt·_ tonlt p.lax:e to urtfair criticism. HoWever, is it would have been tess butt w~~h .· . the . Uni~. · Coatlb .. was . right that the·· criticism. is made f-eelings. verbally and. physt:eallr assault~(.[_ b~fqt;e tne en4ea.vor. takes place? Looking at the pporest by .. a. Buff~:tlo. skater wb1le Script,.writers ahd a~tors often countries in the wotld. we find attendmg to one. t>f out pJ:ayets have .an :uncomf<Jrtable aflian<;e. that in a matter of a few years w:tto:.· While lying l<lfi~h&eit!)?s .on A reputation al$a.eharacter actor they 11ave been transformed from the II.)¢. was ·brut~U~~ k:iek-¢d m ~h¥ is so'me.t,hirtg. t-o· f.)e (l)V!;!r<:um.e~ l ••undeveloped\ ·· countries to gut ... ~y . ano:ther. ::a9ff:alv plaY,t.:r. ~<Jmit, ,.Better. than ... a J~pittation \underdeveloped\ countries;. now ~he,ther t~e (;()Utse of action · for qnly one--half thi'tt;' ·.· . they are ~·developing~· . co.untrles. taken bY that ••&nl~:t ?oil referto .· · lresl: i caaeifi tesfW.fi:stt t6the .,j That's prng~ssJ . . ' · · WI.!{~ P.r(.)p¢r:; w~ #.~:¢~~~ ~1! ~1l~ ,,. • · .·. . . :Ot ~Umg< on ·the It is diffictdt to pose tlQl;J}e . 0 · .. ~· .. • th~ figltt 'W~it> . $orlpt~ l.Aikre''fl£40 alid :4j H goals hke defense and c. . .. • fr~s'ttatea~. olrviotts:b~ ~m .~oti'ge.Qer() •... 'ciill' ~lft 4~). ~pnt~in..n)ent, . H(Ow ¢atl , we <>ve t·eXtiJ ;e · .:pef$OP'!· and, if yO'tf\ . . \ ' .. ,.. '' ~F; . eml.ln recogniz~· discrim . .i~ation a,·\'~ffi$t4 look cJo~ly . at' the. situation, he . ;) . . .. st t h 'j? If may·f{ave· gott<m ~J'usf'wnaf·''lie' · ····· · , . >~-' · ·.-~ .. eJ;s. P_.~tf.:R~-r~.~,.y.::'•·· · •. · deservetL ·. •· · .... \, · .:· ·· ·· '1&: ~ t.eplac~d- :- .~Y·. · :'ft.•.·\'· .: •. yfi#: '\'f·' ~~.;,a.·. ·i%v . ., •v'•\:.:.t·e·· ... ,.;~ ·t· .. ·~p,e'ri~JtJleb:oo.Q.·'(.f ·~·-·.;there J$ no. 1 '\' ... \'~\' ~· ·\'~ \' \\\\' \ · · ··not, <:>r cotttse.·· edmmotf to !lle <li$,~fi~pip,;;tJip:f;t, t~~l~~$. YO,JJ f~.VQ.r,\' - Sa.ID¢' :of ' 'hockey;' yt!t~ '.i·i .~btin:g\' ' \ II • I .. I I I , '·~ II ,\ ' r ! 1 I I ·• ,1. i . ~ ' I ····r. I; I 1;. ' '·

Page8 bad timing \The timing is really bad,\ is how Admissions Director Jay Shupe described it. \We weten't purposely left out,\ is Athletic Director Bruce: Allison's explanation. What everyone is talking about is the proposal being brought by Allison to the College Senate Thursday which would permanently seat an Athletics Department member on the Admissions Committee: The proposal provides for the representative to be \elected arinually by the professional full time athletic department staff members.\ Allison explains that this stipulation was added because of the natur~ Qf the deJ?artment m~JTIJ1ers' work loads. Still, in the past, every representative has been chosen through the Faculty Committee on · Committees route: with · all but two Athletic Department members lacking faculty status, Athletic representation was seldom formalized. Allison attributes current Athletic Department ommission from the formal Admission-s- decision- making process to the Committee's reduced size under the new governance structure. In actuality, though, th~ Admissions Committee was unchanged . . . m governance revtswns. Shupe explains that in the past~ Athletic representation has been basically informal: input on potential inter-collegiate athletes was reviewed with coaches before decisions were made. While feeling that it was \easier to go through the old route,\ he doesn't see \any harm\ in formalizing athletic representation. \The process should be legitimicized,\ he commented, adding that in any case \no undue influence could be exerted by one member of a committee of 18.\ If an Athletic representative can rarely change an Admissions decision, why must a successful informal process be changed? Should every non- faculty area of the college (like Lamont House and alumni groups) be represented in Admissions decisions? Concordiensis feels Shupe's comment on timing to be the most telling. In a time when Union is at the crossroads of its Athletic future it -would be most prudent for the Senate to study Admissions representation with a careful eye. DLM .CONCORI)IENSIS~ Opinion: WRUC Two: byPETERSOBOL Investigative radio True cooperation will only be achieved when we are also allowed to Fequest assistance fFom members of the 'current staff of WRUC. After all, they know the radio business as it is run at the moment, and we feel that apy indication of a denial of any of the· cooperation which we have, for the . good of the campus, requested, would show .. on the part of WRUC's directors, Floyd Saberski ::. :and Rich Forselius, a deadly lack of humanity, compassion, and trust. The foHowing is a proposal teletype for our initial story ideas. which may one day appear before It would also be of great value the tax committee: .to the combined efforts of Union What this college needs is radio if we were allowed to use another radio station. WRUC the WRUC production studios merely reads the news off the for taping interviews, etc. And teletype. There is no naturally we would \llso· look investigative reporting at alL We forward to having access to the think that a new radio station WRUC record library to provide devoted to investigative reporting background music for. our radio o f n e w s s tori e s w o u 1 d documentaries. ln the interest -of complement WRUC and bring cooperation, we would even have greater efficien<:y to Union radio our office in the WRUC office newscasting. room. This would allow a We also feel that, in this time of maximum of communication tight and often imaginary money, opportunities between -the two an investment of $20,000, which statians. ' we are requesting, should not be Further benefits to the campus immediately rejected, but that the at large would result from out great benefits which would result also making use of the WRUC . should be seen as outweighing a brmidcasting facilities,in particular mere monetary expense. the studio, transmitter, and Of course we intend to antenna. Students need not cooperate completely with continually retune their -radios WRUC on aU levels, and we from one station to another, since expect that they will also they will both broadcast from the cooperate with us. We will of same place on · the same .-.nnrse · expect access to their frequency. As a matter of fact, we could do \the camp.us a great service, and save precious ta~ dollars, if Floyd and Rich wo\lld allow us to run WRUC oQr way. However, they have continually refused to resign. That's why this campus is in the shape it's in - 'because we ate not n.ul.ning · things. We know what's right for you, even if you don't. ,,, ' .. .. any participantsr ·•·••····· The debate over Community . Participation may have reached an end. Brian Tucker~ on behalf of Student Forum, has made a proposal to the College Senate which seems to be the most equitable solution to the problem. Tucker's proposal is that at the end , of each semester students meet with their advisors to fill out a \non-academic transcript\ listing the activities each student is involved with. These transcripts would accompany normal transcripts on all applications to schools and for jobs. It's not a bad idea. Students who want to take the time for various student activities would finally be receiving an· official pat on the back from the College. Those who don't wish to get involved are not obligated to do so. It almost seems perfect. Those who get involved are aided by the transcript, those that don't are left unmolested. We urge the Senate to vote yes on this proposal and put Community Participation to rest. ' MRA ,.

'·-· -' .. - . . 1 . ·j . I i'• ·' --~ I·~-' ' . Page9 Cheating Continued from Page 1 crooked, therefore it'S O.K.), and personal (cheating is alright if you don't get caught.) - Student opinion seems to favor the first two, but while students cheat they stifl hold an aversion to it. Those who cheat tend to feel more strongly that a vast majority of others .cheat. · Some felt that profe:>sors and the school were at fault in many instances for placing students in shuations where cheating, whether deliberate or inadvertent, was unavoidable. Specifically they were referring to exam settings such as those in BU204 and SSOI6. Several students were disturbed by the fact that professers are unaware of or do not act to curb cheating in their classes. On the other hand professors felt that students should be responsible for reporting cheating in order to hold it in check. Students were upset with professors who invariably give the same or very similar tests year after year. \In these cases there is no way to curb cheating,\ said one Union senior. The Effects of Cheating In general, feelings on the effect:; of cheating were that it eroded the educational system, and established a feeling of distrmt in student-professor and student-student relationships. One professor commented, \The institution has a responsibility to alleviate the pressures which may lead to such behavior as well as a potential. Cheating short-circuits that process and hence helps to undermine the institution's primary reason ~or existing. A student who cheats not only cheats himself but helps to create a climate that encourages others to do likewise; he helps to break down the trust between students and faculty that is essential if· genuine learning is to take place~\ Students and professors alike called for severe punishment in cases of cheating. Most voiced the opinion that an 'F' in the cour~e or on the exam or paper m question was not unreasonable. The Roots of Cheating Students questioned on the root of the cheating problem felt that there was no solution in sight as long as the basis for measuring academic standards depended on grades. In an article by the College . Press Service it was reported that school officials agree that cheating originates in elementary school. A study conducted in 1970 revealed that 70% of all grade school children cheat. The study found that children cheat to prevent others from thinking they are stupid. responsibility to punish those who abuse their own self-worth and the school's through the creation of dishonest relationships with their peers and their teachers.\ Another professor said, \I consider academic cheating the most serious offense a student can be guilty of, short of murder. A college exists to help students develop their intellectual Most solutions to the present grading; cheating problem have met with limited success. Although the pass-fail system has been initiated at many schools, it has been attacked because of recent studies claiming schools look down on a transcript laden with 'pass-fail' grades. CPS reports that William Glasser, author of Schools Without Failure, argues that the ultimate solution to cheating would be a grading system which would not rate students against other students. By reducing the stress of competition, cheating would also decrease. union C d'\ • college OOCOf IeDSIS EDITORS-I~ -CHIEF . ... . C\IJ.TliRF .... NF.WS-FFATllRfS ............ . SPORTS ................................ . .. Mike Affinito. David Mn,k0wiu .. . .. Sue Finkehtcin. Diane Nels0n . ..... Audrev Rothschild. Sue Draper. Chris O'C 0nnor ....... Charlie Flanagan. J0hn Bu~terud. Allyne Price l.AYOlJT.................................. . ............................... . ... Lance Travis C'I.ASSlFlED PAGE............. . ...................................... Todd Miller C'OPY................................ .......... ............................ .... . ....... Phil Alcabes ART...................................................................... . ........ !.ester Weiss (' AI.ENDAR ...................... . . . . . . . . ...... . .. .. . .... Sheryl Farber BUSINESS MANAGER······ ............ ···········.... . . ...... Rhonda Kaplan SUBSC\RlPTJONS... . .. Shelley Gold NATIONAL ADS ................................. · ........... Steve Kelly CONTRIBUTING FDITOR ........................ ... . . . ............... Jack Pitnev C'IRC'll!ATION ......................................... J0e C'appucci0 PHOTO EDITOR .. . . .. ..... · · · · · · ·· ·· ······ ·· .. Greg Cohen PHOTOGRAPHY. . . .Jim Baker. Kevin Scharv. Debby Kaufman . .............. ciirr I.angweiler. Don Hamc~man. Fred Abbott. Rudv Lu. Jeff Levine. Beth Karlin. Mike Rotundi: Rob Mondschein. Art Miller. Tony Romanani. Sue Draper. T0m Welles Tom Bishop. Mike Marks STAfF THIS ISSUE .................... · ... ·············· Kelley NewtC'n, Bill Peck. Barbara Shapiro. Cheryl Tanke!. RB Thau. Joe Cappuccio. Ed Menke. Peter Sobol. Dan Rosenbaum .. Arnie Hiller. Fern Flomenhaft. Neal A. Schwart7. Bill Henson. Jon Scheer. Bill Pia us. Hope Fabian Dave Manning. Marshall Wisoff . CONCORDIENSIS is published every Wednesday by the student body of Union College, Old Gym Hall, Stbenectady, N.Y.; to which Postal Forms 3579 are directed. Publications Offite: The Jewish World Publitations, 416 Smith St., Schenectady, N.Y. 12305 (J70-5483). Entered in the Schenectady Post Office as Second Class Matter. Subscription Rate 35 cents per copy. $8.00 a year delivered anywhet:e in·t~e United States.

I 1a~~day,Feb~·~ll~,~l~97~6~------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------P-a~g~e_9 __ . ......,.,. . '1 I. ' ep~rted the . . '< tctivities budget to :om'mittee's error. As co~1tor 9f Lineback..,r, reading\ . that our lUd~et had Daen. ~;:ut coQ'lpletely :arne as quite a shock, . seeing as leither Ken Stope (the otber c.;>~ ~ditor) or I were informed of the mpending cut. . Dave Eilbott, mai,nnan of the tax (,l()tntnittee, md self appointed exalted -ruler, J.as, proclaimed that the course v<~luation is a \useless :on:lmodity withtnit grades.~· and leMe funding has heen cut off. fhank you, Dave: But who gave 10U' the sole authority to warrant · Jin¢bac~er \useless\? Curiously ' nough, a poll of th~, student I >ody taken last Fall showed 'jn~baclter a strong lith on a list 11 student activity money Jriorities, higher than over a' ~l<: ~:-n activities that ate still being .--f,ded. The people have spoken, no' Eilbott, in true Peter >rinciple form, has cast a deaf ear m 'them. It seems obvious that he , students want some sort of l:ourse evaluation, and to cut .off ~'unos completely would be a 1 uistake. Of course, I forget that t was Dave Eilbott in command 1e1-~. so mistakes are expected. \lo,)etheless, this mistake should Je corrected, to the benefit of the :ntire student body. ' As for E1lbott's reason for j '.;ring Linebacker's funds off . , · Jcless commodity without ~racies,\' a phrase that will go !own in infamy), let me say this: , -h1y back in the old days, when I \~'1'\ a freshman, grades were .::Ji$,1iiuded in the course evaluation. l~t1d sure enough, throating, trade grubbing students,. li.l<e tba·ie Ellbott and the rest of the fax. committee, would look .hrough the course evaluation and 1id~ out professors to take merely Jec\iuse they gave oat a higher Jercentage of A's and B's than the >ther guys. This pradice is wrong md defeated the purpo.se of an ·evaluation,\ limiting it to seeing \· ~h~ is an easy profartd who isn't. lhe professors protested, and the ~rades were rightly removed from ~be, course evaluation. For your nformation, Mr. Bilbutt, the ':ourse evaluation's goals are to :va~uate the · course and its brofessor on their merits and lportcomings. If the eourse is r ®o,d and,the professor is good, ·1 ~r bad · or whatever, It is ,\ •· ~!l!'vlmt if·he ~ves lllotof A's ~·· ''not. I ask you, are you here to : 'earn and get anedtu::atiO:n, or are .. rou. here to get grades? 'fhete is a· 1 \ .~fferenee .. The present course Jaluation, thotlgh it could be . _ !ft~nged, does ~ell you how the f1udents feel aboUt 'the pr()fls , .. • _ •. . how good the is. · factors ~- ~1:.FrrotpectH1. · ~iooe· fmtding' a ·c6'Urse · llth fn tbe· afaretnentioned poU, -most other st-udents agree with: m~. Over the i)ast few years Union has been trying to shake its image of being· a second rate,· schooL Letting second rate guys like Dave Eilbott and the rest of the Tax committee scrap tne cQurse evaiuation would be a ·step in the wrong direction. A better idea would· be to k:eep Linebacker and sctap the Tax committee. Sincerely, Bill Peck, '76 Co-Editor, Linebacker anyperson. reply With your reporter, members of the CQHege Athletic Committee were surprised to learn last week that the Union women~s inter- collegiate tennis team would not compete this spring .(\Tennis Any Person'!,\ Concordiensis., February 4, 1976). The Athletic Committee has vigorously and consistently urged the Department of Athletics to develop a broad, comprehensive athletic p.rogram covering both men's and women's inter- collegiate, intramural, and recreational activities, with a view towards providing and promoting maximum opportunities for participation by all students and · staff at Union. We do recognize the constraints caqsed by growing demands on overburdened facilities that were largely designed when Union was an all- male College. We are, however; deeply committed to providing the · same quality programs for Union women that characterize · our men's activities, both because of Title lX and; even more, because it is just and right. • Your reporter suggested that persons interested in restoring women's intercollegiate tennis ne)!;.t spring contact the Athletic Committee. In a<lvance of being , contacted by anyo-ne, but after reviewing this matter with the Athletic Department, we can report the following; 1} The Athletic De-partment reports that at most Eastern colleges women~s te,nnis is a fall sparL In terms of scheduling matches with- other colleges as well as participating in state and regional competition, a{,:C.otdiugly, A-rhletic Director Bruce Allison !and Coach Sheila Weltv.er de(iided last summ.ir that the wotn(m's tennis team wouid · henc-efotth .(begmiting in 19!JS .. IJ6) competP'in the f.aU. rather than tbe spring. 2). Memb~rs of the women's te'tlnls tel'lm ·and Coach - Sandy · ·· ¥<Yiif were so informed las.t fall, -OllltC!t\<~1!· -W~t-@. $9U~ ~lt\'W!: a' rrtQ~trif Cheating matches each year). 3) While there is a heavy demand for the College's 10 outdoQr tennis courts in the spring (most of which, incidentally, were completely resurfaced, relined and lighted last summer), that fact apparently . was of secondary importance in his decision. 4} The College Athletic Committee played no part in, and was unaware of, the deliberations Continued on Page 13 romulans unite .Editors, Concordiensis: We agree with the writers of \Nane Game\ that \by altering a name one can alter people's expectations and, eventually, attitudes.\ We also agree with Professor Baker that \perhaps linguistic conceptual change will abet institutional change.\ Both letters are perceptive in their understanding of the power of language. The discriminatory ef- fects of language are no small matter, and Robert Baker et al are right tn be concerned with the language's effects upon women. Undoubtedly, women are the object of verbal abuse, and, needless to say, we do not condone such prejudice. However, it is QUr contention that the authors of \Name Game\ and ''Huperson\ are also guilty of prejudice, a prejudice far more subtle, and far more dangerous than the prejudice they attack. \Name Game\ and \'Huperson\ epitomize verbal discrimination. The linguistic \reforms\ the articles suggest serve to demean, demoralize, and debase an ethnic minority that has too often borne the brunt of unwarranted prejudice. It utterly amazes us that the authors of the aforementioned articles could possibly believe that such a prejudicial term as \chairperson\ is fair and unbiased. The term embodies racism and ignorance, Since we do Mt believe that the author~ of \Name Game\ and \Huperson\ consciously wish to oppress tire disadvantaged. our only · explanation . for. thei-r blatant condescension is total uignorance. • Perhaps they are so caught up in the interestS of their own. little ', minority group t'hat they .have bt;:conte ·insensitiv-e to the cohcerns . \){ all other . lgroU,_~s. Perhaps they can not see beyond\.. their own petty world to- the worlds· around them~ However, whatever the ·reasons fot: their dniiliSQiie~!¢!US'>t th~ . ~~n;·:~ot: dilemma Continued from Page 1 crooked, therefore it's O.K.), and personal (cheating is alright if you don't get caught.) Student opinioH seems to favor the first two, but while students cheat they still hold an aversion to iL Those who cheat tend to feel more strongly that a vast majority of others cheat. Some felt that professors and the school were at fault in many instances for placing students in situations where cheating, whether deliberate or inadvertent. was unavoidable. Specifically they weFe referring to exam settings such as those in BU204 and SSOI6. Several students were disturbed by the fact that professors are unaware of or do not act to curb cheating in their classes. On the other hand professors felt that students should be responsible for reporting cheating in order to hold it in check. Students were upset with professors who invariably give the same or very similar tests year after year. \In these cases there is no way to curb cheating,\ sa1d one Union senior. The Effects of Cheating In general, feelings on the effects of cheating were that it eroded the educational system. and established a feeling of distrtJSt in student-professor and student-student relationships. One professor commented, \!he institution has a responsibility to alleviate the pressures which may lead to such behavior as well as a responsibility to punish those who abuse their own self-worth and the school's through the creation of dishonest relationships with their peers and their teachers.\ Another professor said. \I consider academic cheating the mo~t serious offense a student can he guilty of. short of murder. A college exists to help students develop their intellectual potentiaL Cheating short-circuits that process and hence helps to undermine the institution's primary reason for existing. A student who cheats not only cheats himself but helps to create a climate that encourages others to do likewise; he helps to break down the trust between students and faculty that is essential if· genuine learning is to take place.\ Students and professors alike called for severe punishment in cases of cheating. Most voiced the opinion that an 'F in the course or on the exam or paper in question was not unreasonable. The Roots of Cheating Students questioned on the root of the cheating problem felt that there v.as no solution in sight as long as the basis for measuring academic standards depended on grades. In an article by the College Press Sen ice it was reported that !>chou! officials agree that cheating originates in elementar) school. A study conducted in !970 revealed that 70 1 '( of all grade school children cheat. The study found that children ch~at to prevent others from thinking they are stupid. Most solutions to the present grading cheating problem have met with limited success. Although the pass-fail system has been initiated at many schools. it has been attacked bccaU!>e ot recent studies claiming ~chools look down on a transcript laden with ·pass-fail' grade~. CPS reports that William Glasser. author of Schools Without Failure, argue~ that tht: ultimate solution to cheating would be a grading ~ystem which would not rate student:; against other student:-.. By reducing the stress nl competition. cheating would also decrease. umon C d• .. college oncor IeDSlS 1!11\0R.<..;-\'\-CHIII CTITIRf '\FW<..;-!T·\TI'Rf<.; \1ik<' \lflllil•'· [1.!\ld \1\''\\'!7 \\'\ I mk,·l,tc·ln. J)i.•ne \el\'n \udrn R<•th,child \'\'Draper. SPOR1S Ch.trhe 1·\.tn.t)!.!Tl. ],,hn Ru•l<.?rud. ·\II\ nc Pnc:c I \ Y0\'1 I .mc·e I ra\1' Cl \SSII'IfD 1'\(if ·1 ,,dJ \f•lkr COPY l'l11l ·\k.li>t:' ·\ R I \,.,, cr \\'c\' C\1 f'\DAR '-'h,·r~ 11-arhc·r Bl'SI'\f·SS M·\'\ViFR Rh,,nJa K.tplan Sl'RSCR IPfiO'\S <..;hdkl {j,,\J '\A flO'\ \I ADS <;tch' Kl'ih COYT R I Rl' 1\'\(i rDII OR .l.1d f'ttnn C\RCT\ .\ 1\0'\ J,,,. C.tppuccl<' PH010 ll1110R (ire)! Cn\t,·n PHOTOCiR·\PHY lun R.,hcL Knm Sc·h,lf\. Dchh1 K.111fnun. SI·\H lHIS \SSIT Chtt I .111!21\l'lkr. !),>n H.tmnm.tn. Fred \hho•11. Rud1 1 u .. kf\1 clinc.llcthKarlm \l1ke R<>lundl. R<'to '\1,>nd,.:hctn_ ·\rt \f,\kr. r,,m R<'manarn. Sue Draper. T,,m \\'cllc' 1 Pm R\hnp. \f,J.,c '\1ark' Kcllc\ '\e\ 111n. Rill p,·d. Barhar.t Sh.tp!Tn. Cher~ I l.Jnkc•l. R Fl Ih.tu. -'•'<' ( ·,tppucno. F d \1enkc. Peter s,,hnl. Dan Rn,cnhaum. ·\rn1e lhlkr. !·ern l'l<•mc·nhaft. '\;cal A Sch\•artr. Hill lh•n,nn. lnn SdKl'T. Bill Pi,lll•. ll•'f'C F.1h1an Dale \1anmn~. \lar•ha\1 \>,(\ntf , CONCORDIENSIS is published every Wednesday by the student body of Onion College, Old Gym Hall, Schenectady, N.Y.; to which Postal Forms 3579 are directed. Publications Office: The Jewish World Publft:ations, 416 Smith St., Schenectady, N.Y. 12305 (370-5483.). Entered in the Scbenectady Post Office as Seco!ld Class Matter. Subscription Rate 35 cents per copy. $8.00 a year delivered anywhere in'the United States.

Page 10 CONCORDIENS!S, Wednesday, Feb; 11, 1976 First person: the realities of ·abortion by SAM Even before the test results were back, I knew that l was pregnant. Besides waking up every morning with an incredible feeling of nause.a and my period being late, I didn't feel or act like myself. I was constantly tired and weak and had an amazingly large appetite. But to make certain, I went to the college health service to have a pregnancy ~est done. The results were back within two hours, and just by looking at the doctor's face, I could tell that the results were positive. I found it hard to oelieve that something that only happens to others had finally happened to me. My luck had run out and l was now faced with having an abortion. The doctor at the health center discussed alternatives with me, but being 20 and still in school made them all seem pretty remote. Since I had psychologically prepared myself for the worst, l did not really feel immediately different in knowing that I was pregnant. The best way to describe how I felt was dazed and sick. The various questions the doctor asked me about my views on abortion, my financial situation, and who I was pregnant by just drifted by me. 1 could not , rush into plans for an abortion, but first had to settle the idea in my mind. I wanted to know all the facts about the abortion and the clinic I was to have it at before making an appointment. \condition.\ I felt alone and scared as I walked horne. I was not upset by the fact that 1 was pregnant, but was terrified of the abortion operation. Although the doctor had told me that it was a process less complicated than a tonsilectomy, my imagination began to run wild and invent all sorts of horrifying things. I found that what helped me most was confiding in my roommate - who introduced me to a friend of hers who had recently had an abortion. No longer did I feel as alone - there were many others in my position: talking to someone who had gone through an abortion proved to be an immense relief. Thus, I would really recommend not keeping the fact that you are pregnant a total secret, and would advise sharing it with a close and trusted friend. Having someone to talk to at this point is cruciat Supposedly, the earlier that the abortion is performed the safer and less painful it is. As I was \barely\ pregnant (5\-S weeks), I was weB within the safety zone (which is roughly 12 weeks from the last menstrual period). After I got myself together, I decided that the sooner I had ~he abortion~ the better off I would be. I mustered up my courage, checked to make certain that no one was eavesdropping, and called the number of the clinic that I had been referred to. I found it difficult to admit to such a complete stranger that I was pregnant, but her nonchalant attitude made me relax somewhat. It seemed incredible to me that the biggest event of my life thus far seemed so natural to the receptionist. l had been eager to have the abortion, but was shocked when she apologized for having no openings that day; I was not in that great a hurry! actually happening mside me. I did not want to let myself become attached to the baby growing inside of me. My attitude towards myself was changed, though; I felt out of place among friends, and thus lonely. This feeling, along with inability to keep up with ariy schoolwork 1 had, were the two most difficult things to cope with during the time l was pregnant. The week of waiting eventually ended. Upon arriving at the clinic with my boy friend, we were immediately asked to pay the fee. After paying up, we joined many other anxious couples, some much younger than we were, in the crowded waiting room. 1t was a good feeling looking around at everyone and knowing that they were there with the same problem that we had. So much of the situations of these people were shown through their looks of fear, loneliness, bitterness, and sadn.ess. My attitude was different; I was rel·ieved to be there and anxious for \the procedure\ to be over. I was not upset by the fact that l the butterflies in my stomach, -1 was terminating a pregnancy but was sent up to get ready for the instead viewed abortion as operating room. exercising my prerogative as a After· changing into a hospital woman. gown, I was escorted into the OR I was finally called into the by my counselor. Because of the office for a blood test, tight scheduling of abortions, the gynecological examination, and a doctor was eager to get started on counseling session. Each patient me. The Valium I had been given was assigned a woman who would to calm me dewn hadn't yet taken act as counselor and companion effect, but l was told to get up on throughout the procedure. During the table and into the infamous the session which we attended the stirrups. Painless as the. shots of counselor carefully explained the novacaine were, the following abortion process, how it would · dilation of the cervix took about feel, and various birth control · eight minutes and was extremely methods. My questions were all painful. It felt like most menstrual concerned with any risk involved cramps magnified by one in the abortion; that was . my thousand (but the pain varies greatest fear. I was repeatedly from individual to individual). assured that the clinic only had Moral support was provided by problems in 1/10 of 1% of the the counselor whose circulation I abortions they performed each must have cut off by squeezing year and those usually occurre<} her hand so hard. After what because the patient did not follow seemed like an eternity, the the post-operative instructions. apparatus \Vas removed from About the amount of pain inside of me and I was eased into involved - I was told that it a wheel chair. I couldn't believe it varied with each individual, but was all over - the feelings of would probably be similar to nausea and diz.ziness that I felt menstrual pain. So, with all this seemed inconsequential to the advice and a few Valium to stop • photo hy Rohee feelings of relief I had. I was wheeled into the recovery room, .whose bright walls and plants were a welcome sight. l remained in the recovery room for about half an hour. During the time I was made to feel very comfortable by the clinic aides, and basically just rested as 1 was feeling extremely fatigued. The other women coming in after their abortions said that they were feelin·g as nauseous and dizzy as l; I again realized that I was by no means alone. After a short while I regained strength. I got dressed and went for another counseling period, This session was to explain the list of instructions that, if followed, would insure my successful recovery. None of them were too complicated: it was suggested that I go on the Pill for at least a month to restere, my hormonal functions back to normaL Being opposed to use of the Pill for health reasons, I decided not to use it and stick to the diaphragm which, when used Continued on Page 13 Mentally, and financially, I felt that I could handle the abortion. I had no qualms about abortion itself, and did not even fully realize at the. time that I was actually carrying a child. I felt so sick and unlike myself that I could not consider the actual nature of my condition. The emotional support that I needed during this time (ap.d the $150 for the operation) were both supplied by my boy friend. Without his understanding and patience I would have never been able to make it through what would prove to be the most difficult two weeks of my life. Thus, upon deciding that I was emotionally \secure enough\ and had access to the $150 to pay for the abortion, the doctor (who seemed more embarrassed than I was) · handtd me a pamphlet from a nearby and reputable clinic and solemnly ushered me out of his office. My concern over the medical risk of the abortion (which will be henceforth referred to as \the procedure\) was said to be needless and we finally decided that the big event would be in one week. I was instructed to take a bath the night before the procedure, bring a urine specimen for another pregnancy test, a sanitary napkin, and .. . a bank check for $150. I made it through the next week of continued vomiting and discomfort with much moral support from friends. Although I was always conscious that I was pregnant, I did not allow myself to fall apart emotionally. I tried to look at myself as just being sick - rather than pregnant - so I would not think of what was Union's gyno services lacking As exited through the infirmary's waiting room, my entire self-concept changed. It seemed as though everyone was staring at me (especially the males) and was aware of my by SUE FINKELSTEIN The rumblings of discontent are not unheard among Union College women, especially in the area of gynecological care and services. Since 1971 (one year after the Local abortion facilities viewed college went co-ed), Union has provided part-time gynecological care for its women students in the form of once-weekly clinics at the infirmary. After a few faulty starts at obtaining a doctor willing to work at the college, Union managed to secure Dr. Chin Lin, chief gynecologist at Schenectady Planned Parenthood, to provide this service every Wednesday afternoon from 1:00 to 3:00 p.m. by HOPE J. FABIAN Supreme Court dectsion might abortion clinic for women over RUMBLE #1: How can one The New Citizen (Vol. I, no. 7; have just as well never have been seventeen, and for women under doctor possibly serve the recently published an issue which passed; the existence of local seventeen with parental consent. gynecological needs of 652 reports on the current abortion abortion clinics or hospitals - Memorial Hospital performs women in a once-weekly two hour predicament. remains the same as before the abortions. clinic? Obviously, he can't. Yet, On January 22, 1973, the 1973 mandate - there are none. Pregnancy counselling services according to Mark Smith, Dean Supreme Court legalized the right The Family Planning Center was are provided by: of Students, he isn't supposed to. to terminate pregnancy. However, closed on December 31, as part of Planned Parenthood, 434-2182 Smith acknowledged the in a study. done by the Alan the county's \Budget Austerity\ AMC Hospital Family inadequacy of the gynecological Guttmacher Institute (associated and is causing a return to \back Planning Clinic, 445-4383 services offered at the college, yet with Planned Parenthood street abortions and risks of Catholic Family Planning stressed that Dr. Lin's clinic is not Federation of America) medically inept abortions.\ Clinic, 436-9745 supposed to be a substitute for information was released that in Even with legalized abortion, Albany County Department of private gynecological care.- Our 1974, somewhere between 400,000 \back street abortions\ are still Social Services, 471-5300 . infirmary is not a total medical · to 900,000 women were unable to occuring in· Schenectady. The Family and Children's Services, service, and even if we wanted to get abortions. By January of New York State law does not 462-6531 extend the gynecological services, 1974, 85% of all public hospitals require that a minor have Washington Park Free Clinic, the facilities just aren't available. had not performed any aJ>ortions, parental consent for an abortion 463-4083 Smith also pointed out the and by the first quarter of 1974, to be performed, but many Planned Parenthood (PP) difficulty ef getting a doctor to more than half of all legal hospitals will not provide this provides a pregnancy test for a work at the college at aU. It abortions were provided by non- service without written small fee and pregnancy becomes difficult if not impossible hospital clinics. Obviously, as The permission. The young, single counselling if the test is positive. to establish the intimacy and New Citizen stated, the right to girls who cannot get parental Medicaid covers these charges confidentiality so necessary safe, clean legal abortions is being permission end up paying rates and financial assistance is also between a gynecologist and ignored. high above the usual $200-$250 to attainable. patient when both must work The above study blamed the private local doctors. lf the parents of a minor will through a clinic. unresponsive public and private The following is a list of not give consent to an abortion, Although many schools (most hospit~ls . for these appalling facilities available in the local this agency will talk to them and, universities) offer extensive figures, but we can see this area: if necessary, aid the minor in gynecological care, l:nany colleges restriction of needed and legal Albany Medical Center (AM C) getting to an area where abortions offer none. abortions in our own backyard. performs abortions by a private are performed without parental RUMBLE #2: The lack of For Troy and Rensselaer, the physician and also runs an per-mission. confidence felt by many women on campus is founded on some p·retty shocking evidence. Stories of faulty treatment, wrong diagnoses, dispensing of . birth control devices without thorough eJoJ.ms are not uncommon, nor are many pure fiction. If any of these accounts are indeed sufficient to prove incompetency, the doctor is asked to leave; gynecological services cease. Many would argue that no service is better than faulty service, yet others would prefer the other course of action. CONCLUSION: The problems of providing extended gynecological care to the women of a small ·college are not unsolveable. Granted, we cannot expect to get the individual attention we are used to with our own doctors at home; there is a big difference between clinic and private service; many of us, instead attribute this distinction to incompetent care. It is difficult (and expensive) to get a doctor to work outside of the professional atmosphere to which he is accustomed in his private practice. Yet in the public clinics in N.Y. C. and other states, nurses, professionals, and non- professional counselors care for much of the preliminary Work involved in a gynecological exam. The problem of sufficient and thorough gynecological care can be dealt with on the small coll~ge c~mpus today. it does have the concern of many of Union's administrators; it n·ow needs action to be taken by those for whom th~ changes will benefit ~.~,, ~~f ·.!:·~~,f··.'. ·, /, ;:~: ~ •). .·, {. j : f ~ (· J,, . I ~ : .... \ ! l 1

' . . I ~ : , CONCORDIENSIS. Wednesday, Feb; 11, 1976 Page I I -. The State of Union's Arts Wilson by DIANE NELSON \What happened even ten minutes ago is past. There will be problems, but the e11tire picture for the Fine Arts Department at Union has taken a new and exciting tUrn.'\ This statement was made by Professor Hugh Allen Wilson in an interView With ConcofilY on Tuesday. Professor WHsen is optimistic about the future of Union's Fine Arts Department as a result of recent discussions with the Provost and President of Union. Tbe administnation is revealing a sincere interest in the arts program. The arts faculty have been asked to suggest names of people to come to Union to evaluate and mak,e recommendations avout the most valuabl J function of the arts for this College. Union is attempting to come to grips with fhe overall increased interest in fine arts in the United States today. ;This new-found interest is illustrated by the Rockefeller Commission investigating fine arts in liberal arts colleges. In respect to changes within the department Professor Wilson stated no specific talk of ch~nge will occur until after the committee visits. However, the Arts Depl!rtment does have certain top priorities for the future .. The acquisition of an art historian and an additional professor of acting are high on the list. A new arts building is one of the two top priorities of the school (the other being a new gym complex). \Interested\ donors are known to exist. The arts faculty also feel strongly about the necessity for additional facilities for exhibition of art works. Professor Wilson stated that a constant flow of art Work, an exposure to the plastic arts, is important for Union College students. He also voiced 'Mosie to hurt. your brain' RIDE BOARD IS AIRED AT 6:30 & 10:30 PM sees Arts' growth the feeling that the buildup of a core of professienal students in the arts is necessary. A larger core of serious majors· would provide fet better commurtic1;1:tion with the rest of the Coll,ege. Right now . there are 25' interdepartmental majors and 29 full art majors. When asked about the importance ·Of the fine arts program to Union College as a whole; Professor Wilson gave an enthusiastic reply: \Any person in any college benefits from exposure to the fine arts. A person is better able to cope with his own discipline if he knows how a simple Mozart symphony 'works' or how a Picasso or Rembrandt . pai~ting 'works' to move you. Exposure to the arts for pevple. involvecl in other disciplines provides different communication and sensitizing to the world. Similarly, art majors may benefit by exposure to the sciences.\ The Arts Department came into existence in 1956 with the arrival ·of Professor Edgar Curtis in the music department. Before this there had been one music instructor Drama and art were under the auspices of the English Department. Since 1956 the Arts Department faculty has grown from one to eight members. Although Chairman Wilson is extremely optimistic about the future, he concedes there have been many problems in the past. When questioned about specific problems, Chairman Wilson stated, \One of the things that has caused us concern is that we have felt that there has been, for whatever reason, not enough opportunity for the meeting of minds between other pa~ts of the College and the Arts Department. If the College has felt the arts have been in 'isolation' it has not been of our choice.\ Chairman Wilson went on to say, \Until recently there. has been little att~mpt to accept or deal with the arts as they truly relate to the broadening and growth of the Union Cellege student body. We as a department also feel that resources and space that were sorely needed for the maintenance of the program, especally in the last ten years, had been given a low priority. However, a new attitude is definitely surfacing. \The situation at Union feels better. There is still a vast amount of work to be done. The upcoming art symposium is a step in the right direction. We are aware of our function and excellence in serving a college the caliber of Union College.\ Nichols by JAMES LAWLESS • .. Ask many of the students at Union to comment on the Arts Department and you may be surprised. \They play with clay sometimes, l think,\ or, \I hear music. coming out of there When I walk by,\ or even, \Oh yeah, J can see it from the lab when it's not raining.\ Whatever the Karl condemns stereotype_s by- SUSAN DRAPE-R David Karl, a former Engineering major, is one of the few male art majors at Union. His feelings on the Art Department are varied. \The advantages of the department is that the faculty is and tttere is a lot of personal attention,\ Dave stated. But the disadvantages cited were comparatively numerous. One is the obvious lack of facilities within the Art Department. Another problem Dave cited was the lack of serious art majors. Stereotyping of the Union art majors was also objected to. .. Most people think people who are in the arts department are those who couldn't make it in other majors,\ Dave complained. He also commented on the label of art as a \feminine major.\ \It is strange that people would have a preconception of art majors as female. Not to be chauvinistic, but many of the greatest artists are male. But because of the expectation of upward mobility placed on the male, he is expected to achieve.\ . . -- . \. .n..ao~...~AY, FEB. 12 & FRIDAY, Shows at 9:00 and 11:00 P.M. Tickets- on sale -;t 8:00 P.M. in Carnegie Hall This Week CABARET Presents AL JAY The Astounding · AI Jay is a professional musici~n and Gambling Expert. See, Be Mystified! Hugh A. Wilson, Chairman of the Arts Departmem. Arts and poli-sci answer, all seem to agree that the Arts db not play a large role in the lives of most students. This week Concordiensis talked about the Arts with Professor Byron Nichols, an Associate Professor in the Political Science Department. Professor Nichols is no stranger to the applications of the Arts in his field. Several years ago, he aired a program on WRUC, titled \Music and Politics,\ in which he tried to show how both express common themes and moods. He still thinks that the Arts have meaning for students of political science,infact for all majors at the College. Prof. Nichols sees the role of the Arts at Union as essentilly ill- defined. This, though, is a malady that he believes is shared by all the major programs in the schooL He mentioned that there has been no real hnalysis of the direction that the school is taking, that we lack a cohesive, educational \plan.\ While he did say that such a plan is scheduled to be discussed sometime this year, the end result is that no explicit role really exists for the arts to filL Union's shift towards a pre- professional orientation has enabled many departments, including political science, to create an impression of \training\ as opposed to \educating.'' The Arts curriculum, in his view, has . followed much the same path. Under the direction of President Martin, the emphasis was put 0n what Prof. Nichols· calls the \studio\ arts, such as painting and sculpture. This resulted in smaller classes that were comparatively specialized, and so reduced the exposure that other students were receiving in the Arts. ''\.\'t{lE \ cs::t . N\ES · ~ J) ~\N p-. . \\I . · IZZ8rl8 4(J 721 ALTAMONT AVE. Take Orders to 12:45 p.m. Delivery to 1 p.m. can 374-5600 What Professor Nichols would like to see is a wider conception of the already extant notion of pre-professional training. Although it might not be the best possible posture for Union to adopt. he conceives of it as a well- entrenched and strong point of the College that should be turned into a valuable asset. In a specific sense, this means asking \What exactly is it that a professional (in any field) should know about the arts?\ This would entail the creation of courses in the history and appreciation of art, which would, in turn, enable more students to gain a working knowledge of, and perhaps even an affection for, all of the Fine Arts. In addition, he would like to see an increased number of both formal and informal exhibits throughout the campus. He recalled that during his undergraduate y~ars, there were numerous exhibits, which served to involve the hundreds of students who walked by them. Projects like the Union Gallery and others are admirable in his view, but they should be made more accessibie and frequent. He suggested changing displays of student work in the buildings on campus, including the science building hallways and dormitories, with the hope that artwork might be talked about, criticized and serve as an impetus in finding out how such work is created. To promote fullest access to the arts, he felt that a plan might be instituted to make arts equipment available to students on the same basis as sports equipment. This he recognizes is an expensive idea, but might be valuable in rounding out the educational process. fERRO'S PHARMACY~· 'STUDEN1 DISCOUNT' 575 Nott St. 377-0510 346-9309 .

_P_a_~_e_12. ___ ....,._ __________ _;.C:.:O:..:N:.:..C:..::O:.:R::D:.:,IE;'N.~S;L;S;, ~Wednesday, Feb. 11, 1976 ·Steinmetz car rebuilt by GARY RUSS Unless you are a newcomer to Union, you probably have heard at least something about the restoration of the 1914 Detroit Electric Car which was once owned by Dr. Charles P. .Steinmetz. A number of articles on the project have appeared in Concordy and the Union· College Chronicle since the ac;;quisitien ef the dilapidated contraption four years ago. This article is meant as a report on recent progress and the future .of the project. We have learned in the last two years, since beginning to reassemble the mechanical parts of the car, just how important our careful disassembly has been, ~hen each part, large or small, 1rnportant or not so, was tagged, catalogued, and often photographed for future reference. If a part could not be identified we often guessed its use, and more often than not, those guesses have been correct. Thus, because of early care and perhaps ''lucky\ guesses, the frame and mech(!nical assemblies are nearly complete, and when a few In depth: questions on the electrical wiring are answered, the car will be nearly ready for a test drive. A turn around the campus could take place by the end of the term; and almost certainly before June. It. will be a te.st only ~ the body wtll not be attached - but it will represent, if all goes well, the near-completion of t'lte me~hanical and electrical parts of the car. ln. addition to the final details of the mechanical systems (adjusting the brakes, for example) and the further study of the electrical system, body work is progressing. The many rotted wooden frame members are being replaced with new oak timbers. Plans are being made to reupholster the seats and interior and to make new fenders t~ replace the' dented and torn originals. A temporary jig to support the dual steering arms has been devised in anticipation of the upC,oming test. drive. Keep in mind that this work has been done by Union students~ up to the point where our technical. abilities are inadequate. Outside work which has been A group of students placing the body of the Steinmetz Car on the refurbished frame ·to see if it fits (i,t does .fit!). done includes the .frame (which was virtually non-existent due to corrosion), the wire-spoked wheels, and the electric motor and wiring harness.' information and adv.ice have been offered by a •couple of local antique car buffs as well as other owners of Detroit, Electrics. The College donated a large number of nickel-cadmium batteries, which were used fot emergency lighting in tile dorms (don't worry - there's a new system); the slight modifications in the body, which are necessary to make them fit, are being worked out. After completion the car will probably be displayed, both as a tribute to its famous owner, Dr. Steinmet~, and as an early example of the use of aluminum (the oak skeleton of the body is covered with an aluminum shell). You may now. be conv.nced · that Working on the car is a fun, .challenging, and rewar.ding project. So if you'd like to contribute ·somet~ing call Dave Beckhardt, ,3'70- . 0738, or come to the ME Lab behi~d Carnegie same Tuesday evenmg. Union, the· pre·med, and the need to compete by DIANE WOLF Medicine has probably become one of the toughest and most competitive fields to enter in the U nit e d States· today. On most college campuses, more stu- dents declare themselves \pre- med\ (encompassing all the health professions) than any other profession. As a result, the problem of getting into a medical school, ,any medical school, has become a serious one for many students. The stress placed upon these pre-med students is obviously great lt may be important to understand why so many students today are turning to the health professions. According to Dr. Willard Rot'h, Chairman of the Biology De,partment and a key figure in helping pre-medical students, \Medicine has been portrayed as· a very glamorous and desirable profession .. This is due in part to television programs like 'Medical Center' and 'Marcus Welby'.\ Professor John Girdner of the Psychology Department seems to agree. \Being a doctor today,\ he feels, \fulfills an awful lot of society's values; wealth, prestige, independence (you're your own boss), mobility (having a skill like medicine you can live anyw~ere), and being able to help the stck.\ As a result, medicine has become a very popular and growing profession but perhaps too popular. At Union today, the situation is a difficult one to characterize. \Approximately 100 or so students (out of a class of about 540) entet: Union as freshmen intent upon pursuing some career in the health professions,\ claims Dr. Roth. \This number, however, drops significantly in the sophomore year by as much as 25 percent.\ Dr. Roth attributes this to several reasons. \Bad grades are only one. More frequently than not, the student's ambition for a career in medicine has not been carefully thought out. After sophomore year, the number again reduces a bit to about 60 or 70. this drop-out can be attributed in some cases to bad gra~es,. although not always. By the JUI\uor year there are no more than 50 active applic!l_nt .Pre-meds. This is due to transfer students-;- those students who cha.nge their major as sophomores, and others who re-apply from the year before. In all, we help aboUt 75 students apply each year.'; According to Roth, \an absolute majority do get into • American med schools.Infact,we rum about Prof. Susan Britain 25 percent better than most colleges nationally. We have hit as .high as 80 percent of a class being accepted, but as low as 60 percent. A mean figure would be about 70 percent each year.\ In dentistry. ·Dr. Roth claims, \We do far better, with as much as 80 to . 90 percent of our applicants bem_g. accepted. Veterinary medacme, on the other hand, is the toughest single profession to enter,\ explains Roth. \Virtually few schools even exist, Last year, 50 percent of our applicants were accepted.\ When asked for the names of some of the medical schools that Union has sent graduates to, Dr. Roth named an impressive list: Johns Hopkins, New York University, Yale, Roch~ster, Cornell, Columbia, and Harvard were just a few. He explained, \we don't get; our pre-med students into every medical school every year, but over the ,course of the years Union graduates have attended every major medical How does the competition among pre-medical students manifest itself at Union? When asked about destructive and unethical competition, Dr. Roth replied, \There must be some truth to these stories, I don't doubt that it does occur at Union. However this is not rampant o; widespread.\ rather, Dr. Roth feels, there is more an unwillingness to help classmates than anything else, although he feels that even this is not all that prevalent. Dr. Roth explained, \I try to assure students that if they work •hard, they will be rewarded. l do not mark on a curve, eliminating some of the competition.\ Dt. Roth also contends that most of the other professors in the department do likewise. Most students interviewed, however, feel otherwise. They claim that may of the professors do i nd ee d mark on a curve and offer the results printed m Linebacker as proof. One student interviewed also blames Union for the intense atmosphere of pressure which manifests itself around exam time. \On the day of the test, they have us all wait outside the exam room until the test is about to start, Then when they open the door, it's like a mob scene with everybody running to grab the first test they can get their hands on. How can anybody do well in that kind ·Of a situation?. Dr. Roth however, seems to feel that the students are bringing the pressures with them. Professor Girdner agrees,. \There is a striving for high achievement here. Students are. bringing achieving attitudes with them to Union.\ Both seem to feel that society is to blame for this competitive attitude. Claims Dr. Roth, \The social pressures are tremendous. We place extraordinary emphasis on Continued on Page 7 school .in the country.\ · Nevertheless, from these facts r--::::=::=-::==~~~~~~~~~~~'!!\\\~~~---. and figures (which are not necessarily precise) , it is apparent that there are far fewer places in than applicants to medical schools throughout the country. Such a situation naturally creates an air· of intense pressure for those students concerned. Exactly what is the ·status of competition at Union among pre- med students? Should the term \cut-throat\ be applied to them? Or is competition played down to a minimum? According to Dr. Roth, \the students at Union don't know what competition is, compared to )he Ivy-League schools.\ Although Dr. Roth contends that competition does exist at Union, he feels it is exaggerated. He also states that he \deplores the usage of the term 'cut-throat' competition. On many cam~uses,\ he explains, \this applies to very unethical behaviour. At Union, however, it is use.d to apply to any very hard- workm_g student. Some view even thts as competitive.\ To further destroy the myth of the pre-med cut-throat at Union Dr. Roth explains that \many pre-med students do participate: . in various campus activities. It 1s a myth that they all have their heads in books constantly.\ APPEARING AL UNION COLLEGE COFFEEHOUSE Friday Feb. 13 8:30P.M . Also starring Jon Hardee, Bob Short 75c: j I ~ ..

Page 12 ·Steinmetz car rebuilt by GARY RUSS Unless you are a newcomer to Union, you probably have heard at least something about the restoration of the 1914 Detroit Electric Car which was once owned by Dr. Charles P. Steinmetz. A number of articles on the project have appeared in Concordy and the Union College Chronicle since the acquisition of the dilapidated contraption four years ago. This article is meant as a report on recent progress and the future of the project. questions on the electrical wiring are answered, the car will be nearly ready for a test drive. A turn around the campus could take place by the end 0f the term alild almost certainly before June: It. will be a test only - the body Will not be attached - but it will represent, if all goes well, the near-completion of the mechanical and electrical parts of the car. We have learned in the last two years, since beginning to reassemble the mechanical parts of the car, just how important our careful disassembly has been, yvrhen each part, large or small, Important or not so, was tagged, In addition to the final details of the mechanical systems (adjusting the brakes, for example) and the further study of the electrical system, body work is progressing. The many rotted wooden frame members are being replaced with new oak timbers. Plans are being made to reupholster the seats l).nd interior and to make new fenders t~ replace the dented and torn originals. A temporary jig to support the dual steering arms has been devised in anticipation of the upcoming test drive. A group of students placing the body of the Steinmetz Car on the refurbished frame to see if it fits (it does fit!). catalogued, and often photographed for future reference. If a part could not be identified we often guessed its use, and more often than not, those guesses have been correct. Thus, because of early care and perhaps \lucky\ guesses, the frame and mechanical assemblies are nearly complete, and when a few Keep in mind that this work has been done by Union students, up to the point where our technical abilities are inadequate. Outside work which has been done includes the frame (which was virtually non-existent due to corrosion), the wire-spoked wheels, and the electric motor and wiring harness. Information and advice have been offered by a couple of local antique car buffs, as well as other owners of Detroit Electrics. The College donated a large number of nickel~admium batteries, which were used for emergency lighting in the dorms {don't worry - there's a new system); the slight modifications in ~he body, which are necessary to make them fit, are being worked out. After completion the car will probably be displayed, both as a tribute to its famous owner, Dr. Steinmetz, and as an early example of the use of aluminum (the oak skeleton of the body is covered with an aluminum shell}. You may now be coitvmcect that working on the car is a fun, challenging, and rewarding project. So if you'd like to co ntri bu te someth.i ng call Dave Beckhardt, 370- 0738, or come to the ME Lab behi~d Carnegie some Tuesday evemng. In depth: - . Union, the pre-med, and the need to compete by DIANE WOLF anywhere), and being able to help 2~ percent better than most the sick.\ As a result medicine colleges nationally. We have hit has become a very p~pular and as. high as SO percent of a class Medicine has probably become one of the toughest and most competitive fields to enter in the U nit e d States· today. On most college campuses, more stu- dents declare themselves \pre- med\ (encompassing all the health professions) than any other profession. As a result, the problem of getting into a medical school, ,any medical school, has become a serious one for many students. growing profession but bemg accepted, but as low as 60 perhaps too popular. percent. A mean figure would be At Union today, the situation is about 70 percent each year.\ In a difficult one to characterize. dentistry, ·Dr. Roth claims, .. We \Approximately 100 or so do far better, with as much as 80 students (out of a class of about to 90 percent of our applicants ?40) enter Union as freshmen bein.g_ accepted. Veterinary mtent upon pursuing some career med1cme, on the other hand, is in the health professions,\ claims the toughest single profession to Dr. Roth. ''This number, enter,\ explains Ro~h ... Virtually however, drops significantly in few schools even exist, Last year, the sophomore year by as much 50 percent of our applicants were as 25 percent.\ Dr. Roth accepted.\ attributes this to several reasons. When asked for the names of \Bad grades are only one. More some of the medical schools that frequently than not, the student's Union has sent graduates to, Dr. ambition for a career in medicine Roth named an impressive list: has not been carefully thought Jo~ns . Hopkins, New York out. After sophomore year, the Umversity, Yale, Rochester, number again reduces a bit to Cornell, Columbia, and Harvard about 60 or 70. this drop-out can were just a few. He explained, be attributed in some cases to bad \we don't get, our pre-med grades, although not always. By students into every medical school the junior year there are no more every year, but over the course of than 50 active applicant pre-meds. the years Union graduates have This is due to transfer ~tudents attended every major medical How does the competition among pre-medical students manifest itself at Union? When asked about destructive and unethical competition, Dr. Roth replied, \There must be some truth to these stories, I don't doubt that it does occur at Union. However this is not rampant o; widespread.\ rather, Dr. Roth feels, there is more an unwillingness to help classmates than anything else, although he feels that even this is not all that prevalent. Dr. Roth explained, \l try to assure students that if they work hard, they will be rewarded. I do not mark on a curve, eliminating some of the competition.\ Dr. Roth also contends that most of the other professors in the department do likewise. Most students interviewed, however, feel otherwise. They claim that may of the professors do i n dee d mark on a curve and offer the results printed m Linebacker as proof. One student interviewed also blames Union for the intense atmosphere of pressure which manifests itself around exam time. \On the day of the test, they have us all wait outside the exam room until the test is about to start. Then when they open the door, it's like a mob scene with everybody running to grab the first test they can get their hands on. How can anybody do well in that kind of a situation?. Dr. Roth however, seems to feel that the students are bringing the pressures with them. Professor Girdner agrees, \There is a striving for high achievement here. Students are bringing achieving attitudes with them to Union.\ Both seem to feel that society is to blame for this competitive attitude. Claims Dr. Roth, \The social pressures are tremendous. We place extraordinary emphasis on Continued on Page 7 The stress placed upon these pre-med students is obviously great. It may be important to understand why so many students today are turning to the health professions. According to Dr. Willard Rorh, Chairman of the Biology Department and a key figure in helping pre-medical students, \Medicine has been portrayed as' a very glamorous and desirable profession .. This is due in part to television programs like 'Medical Center' and 'Marcus Welby'.\ Professor John Girdner of the Psychology Department seems to agree. \Being a doctor today,\ he feels, \fulfills an awful lot of society's values; wealth, prestige, independence (you're your own boss), mobility (having a skill like medicine you can live those students who change thei; school in the country.\ major as sophomores, and others Neve~theless, from these facts r--1;iiiiiii~iiiiii9i']iii~r-~ who re-apply from the year and f1gures (which are not before. In all, we help about 75 necessarily precise) , it is apparent students apply each year.\ that there a~e far fewer places in According to Roth, \an absolute than applicants to medical majority do get into, American schools throughout the country. med schools.lnfact,we rum about Such a situation naturally creates an air· of intense pressure for Prof. Susan Britain those students concerned. Exactly what is the status of competition at Union among pre- med students? Should the term \cut-throat\ be applied to them? Or is competition played down to a minimum? According to Dr. Roth, \the students at Union don't know what competition is, compared to the Ivy-League schools.\ Although Dr. Roth contends that competition does exist at Union, he feels it is exaggerated. He also states that he \deplores the usage of the term 'cut-throat' competition. On many campuses,\ he explains, \this applies to very unethical behaviour. At Union, however, it is used to apply to any very hard- workin~ student. Some view even this as competitive.\ To further destroy the myth of the pre-med cut-throat at Union Dr. Roth explains that \man; pre-med students do participate in various campus activities. H Is a myth that they all have their heads in books constantly.\ APPEARING AT UNION COLLEGE COFFEEHOUSE Friday Feb. 13 8:30P.M. Also starring Jon Hardee, Bob Short 75¢ • '-II • :l. 1 ',' ·. ' . I. ,• ( ' I • I, • I '

j 0 111 to ce on ... ·~~~ r<11 !.-~ A ~ ., ~ J.. • > \ j \ . ·' • li ' I Th.urs., F,ehruary 12 International Relations Club .is presenting the Khaletski Folk Singers. This Russian couple, who recently escaped from the Soviet Union. will sing and then sit with the audience and talk about culture and the arts of Russia and their reactions since arriving in the United States. This is the se.cond part · of Russian Dissident Week. Ali are welcome to enjoy the enter- tainment and to hear first hand. accounts about life in the Soviet Union. Free admission and refreshments will be served. \Lust for Life\ sponsored by the Arts Symposium. 8 and IO p.m. SSOl6 Free Admission. WRUC will broadcast an interview with Clare Graves and Byron Nichols concerning arts at Union in conjunction with Arts Symposium __:. 7:30. Clothing and Construction: CONCORDIENSIS, Wednesday, Feb. 11, 1976 Fri., February 13 Philosophy Seminar. Ms . Stephanie Ross. who is a candidate for a positi<'ln in the Ph:ilosophy Department, will present a talk on \Realism in Art.\ A graduate of Smith College. Ms. Ross is a Ph.D. candidate at Harvard University. Refreshments following the seminar. AU interested persons are invited to attend. Women's Basketball, Union vs. St. Rose at 7:00 in the Field House. Carl Dreyer's \Passion .of Joan of Arc\ Free and Sponsored by P.R. Committee in SS 0-6 at 8:00 Film Committee presen~s AMARCORD at 10:00 m SS016, Admission is $1.00. Scott Alarik, contemporary and traditional folk, 8:30 in Old Chapel. Jack Hardy, topical singer. songwriter. 8:30 C.C. Assembly Hall. SUNYA, 1400 Washington Ave. Sat., February 14 Valentine's Day - Indoor Track in the Field house. Union vs. Co'lgate and Albany at 12:00 p.m. Freshmen Hoopo, Union vs. R PI. Field House at 6:00 Film Committee presents ARMACORD. $1.00 admission. At7.9,and II inSSOI6 Varsi(y Basketball~ Union vs. C.W. P0st at 8:00 in the Field House. Alan Alexander and Friends, classical guitar concert, 8 p.m .. Memorial Chapel. Free. Hamlet, RPI Players Fifteenth .St. Lounge, RPI, Troy, $2.00 admission. 270-6503 Jack Hardy, topical singer, songwriter. '8:30, Freeze-Dried Coffeehouse, SUNY A Bill Horwitz, 8:30, Mother's Wine Emporium. RPI, Troy Hot Mud Family, string band, 8:30. Caffe Lena, 45 Phila St., Saratoga. 584-9789 Film CQmmiJ!~e presents AMARCORU, AT 7, 9, · .:. ~ AND 11 tN SS 016. $1.00 admission Strauss Lounge: 7:30 p.m. celebration of Catholic Mass, followed by a social. Students. faculty, staff all welcome! Sponsored by ;Bewman Campus Ministry. Recital: Betty Balenta, organist, Julia Howard Bush Memorial Center. Russell Sage College, 4 p.m., admission free Ron Davis Quartet, Dave Samuels, 8 p.m., Ramada Inn POSCRIPT We,. The Free Theatre, R Pif Chapel and Cultural Center, 2125 Burdett Ave .. Troy. Pree. 274-7793 Hot Mud Family,. stringban.d, 8:30, Caffe Lena, 45 Phila St .. Saratoga. 584-9789 Mon., February 16 Town Meeting, 8:00 in the Alumni Gym Intellectual Cabaret: 8:30. Page 13 WRUC Executive Board Meeting at 7:30 in the Station lounge on the second floor of Carnegie Hall. Anyone interested in discussing any area of WRUC is invited to attend. Poscript, We, the Free Theatre, R PI Chapel and Cultural Center. 2125 Burdett Ave. Troy. Free. 274-7793 Washington, George born?? Tues., February 17 Film Committee presents \Ten Little Indians\ at 7, 9, and II in SSOI6 Autobiography of Miss Jane Pittman, 11:30 a.m., Schenectady County Public Library. Free. 382-3500 POSCRIPT, We The Free Theatre, R PI Chapel and Cultural Center. 2125 Burdett Ave., Troy. 274-7793 * •. * * Calendar inf(umation must be received by Monday in the Con• cordithsis Omee or call Sheryl Farber at 310-6480. Please include all .~ information and a. brief description of event. .. Susanne J. Frisch, . Union's new costume designer and weaver, will ·hold 4 more sessions on clothing construction. Classes begin at 7:30 in the N ott Memorial Theater. Questions, call x6 I 28. Bill Horwitz, 8:30. Mother's Wine Emporium. RPI. Troy. Bill Horwitz, 8:30, Mother's wfi1e Emporium, RPI. Troy Hot Mud Family, string band, 8:30. Caffe Lena, 45 Phila St., Saratoga. 584-9789 Fepruary 15 Byron Nichols and Peter To biessen will discuss •• Academic Research and Socia 1 Responsibility\ Free Refreshments. If you are planning an event ud would like- the rest ·of the ,college conununity to know about it,-pleue.~·u;'Qa9W ... Abe Lincoln, born 1809 •. - . ·- .... . .. ·. ,_. . \ . . . .. ;\ _. .. ,?~<ny;ards thett) by Robert ' ' rem:a;la1ts' umte .. membet:·u~f ~d:~~b. 'r:ri '!!i . ~puld. wake up, and realiie that · stand silent and witness such the universe is larger than the Continued· from ,_age 9 obvious racism. We call upon the concerns of their own p-tt seriously believe that humans are writers of \Name Game\ and minority group, then the universe the P.nly .intelligent life forms in \Huperson'\ to retract their would be a better place for all of .. ·. . ·ln addition, you should know ~th~ ¥mv.,¢rse:!,Such ethnocentricity yici.ous slanders. . , . .. us. Hh<:!lrontinued\from·I~agtw\•• \···tfta'( 1 -t~<:tlgnitinlg''. tlre''!'neavy· i~ unthinkable! ·. · · T.u.R:o. · !>.CHeves that ,. :aayperson ' • ,' •' ·;. • • ~l • . ' ' demand on the College's outdoor . ·lt. i;; exactly the type of racism linguistic equality can be Jessica shifting· the. w<>men's · inter~ tennis courts, the· ' 'Atl'detic thabis .. embodi€d in the term achieved» We propose th~t. the coll'l!giate: 'tennis program from C{)mmittee has strongly ••cha,irperson\ that our racist term \chairperson\ be Atreides- EnYoy from the Bene G~edt Chuck Bodner '78 ''tbe ·spring to 'the fall: ,These-recommended' that the Athletic organizativn, the .. Tribunal ·\Jni- repla~d .with the fairer term disdtissi'On:S · were· .ccntducted Qepattment open th~fQur:cte'nni-s ted .. · against Romulato:ry \ch~r. ... entirely.. within· the Athletic courts designed' in Acbitlt:S: Rink- Discrimination, has sought to \Mall~~~' can be suppl~~ted py Department. We do intend to at the conclusion of the winter stamp. out. The . term \inteUigent-life-fo-rmager:' .. \Map Decius-Ambassador from Romulus A. Marc Gnessin '76 Jack Hinton '77 Bob Howard '78 : revie~w . fht'S\ : -po:Hc)\ , chan,ge;· skating , season. These· · · cour-ts \chai:ttpe.rson\\ implies tbat the one 0' War\' . .qan he .tfepl.a,eed. with however an& we would naturally could· add: appreciably to our who presides is a person. Yet, \lntelligent\7Ufe-Form-O' War\. welc6llle · communications from. recreational facilities, particularly there are thousands of life forms Carol Mf,mn can be replac~d with Brian .J. any m~mber o~ .the College Ml. incletpent ''&r windy days and th.mughott.t the universe that are Carollntelligent-Life-Form. Such commnmty~'5-lh ·tlus 1ssue; at night. capable Qf presiding despite their conversi()ns would make our Spake . - Mark LiCalzi •n Shoot '76 Vice-ehair- lnt~Jilgent-life fonn Chair~intelligent-life­ form Xmnl - Unic S) The · . .Athletic. Depattment For the Athle-tic Committee .aoohuman physiology. One such .lang11age fairer and more emphatical:Iy 'States .tliat · ·its Professor 'thomas R. KerShner group is the Romulans. Little 'inteUigent-life-form-ane. It is the decisiun in no .W&'Y · represe~ts a I>eparttnent of Economics . Romulans are growing u.p, all over least we can do for our Romulan reduced.· ·eomnmment 't<il\ elther __ Prdfeisor Elizaheth M1tnsfield the universe wondering· why cousins. · \We all are intelligent life forms women's intere('}Uegiat: athleties Department of English t h e y can· t p r e s i d e.. If s uc h narrow-minded , under the laws of Minerva.\ or- ~-:'tt'S:Pt1ogral'll to rmp!ement PrOfe-ssor T. Werner . Poor little opJtressed Romulans individuals as Judy Dein, Titli'dXr'' · ' ,;.. · ·. '· Department of Chemistry cry out at the brutal' prejudice Marjorie Ko hn, Jo-Anne ,, ' · ' · MeS$ina, . and Robert Baker available. 5. Freedom from blatantly obscene or offensive behavior Ombudsmen Continued from Page 1 (including malicious harassment member has violated his privileges and has committed an offense. B. Violation against . - Any student who feels that his rights to free access have been infringed upon may seek recourse through the proper channels. lf he or she is not satisfied, then they may state their grievance to this committee. 2.- Privacy in terms of own possessions until legally taken away. Privacy does not include the exclusive use or control over any co-occupied room or building on this campus. Violation of - Any student who feels that his roommate, fellow student or other person has violated his right of privacy shall seek recourse through this committee. 3. Right to live in a crime-free environment, Every member of the Coiiege community has the right to be protected and free from crime. That is, no person in or out of 1 the College community has the right to include another person in this community, against his will, in a criminal action, nor or persecution). do they have the right to Violation - Any member of perpetrate any criminal action the College community who feels against another person in the that he or she has been subject to College community. (e.g. the . such behavior may seek recourse illegal possession of drugs and/ or through the proper channels. stolen articles, stealing, extortion, Violators, or those who know of coercion and blackmail.) violators should report and Violation of - Any member answer to this committee. of the College community who 6. Protection against wilful or feels that his right to be free from irresponsible destruction of crime has been unduly infringed personal or community property, upon by any student. faculty or The College's property is not staff member may pursue the owned by any single person or proper channels to alleviate these group of people. Rather, it is here problems. If dissatisfied with the for the entire community; results. he or she would have therefore, any form of destruction recourse with this committee. to any piece of community 4. Protection against and property is destructive to the freedom from bodily harm or entire school and this is threat to health. intolerable.· Violators, or those Violation of - No member of, who know of violators, must or members of, the College answer or report to this community may physically abuse committee. 0r molest another member or 7 · All rules and guidelines as outsider. Moreover, the College established in the Union College has an obligation to insure the Catalogue and Student Life community members safety by Handbook shall be upheld by this maintaining its facilities, having committee. adequate protection by its It is important to note that the Security Force, and by assuring COC will emphasize discussion -that a competent medical staff is and communication, rather than a purely legalistic approach. Dean Oea.n Smith said that his office Mark Smith has recommended was ••one-hundred percent that the \concept of committee of behind\ the COC and would peers would be more useful and \back the committee up wiser than the concept of court.\ completely.\ Inside abortion t..ontmued from Page 10 correctly~ was quite effective. l he fotlow-up examination was scheduled for two weeks later; I was now free to go home. After resting in bed for the remainder of the day, I was back to normal that evening. I had been warned about .. post- abortion\ depression. I experienced this only once and when compared to the extreme emotional relief I felt, depression seemed non-existent. I did not feel guilty about having the abortion - it was just not the . time to be pregnant. The fact that I loved the person I was pregnant by only strengtllened the decision for abortion - pregnancy was just too far removed from both our lives (or so we thought). Months later, it all seems like a dream. I rarely think of my abortion and do not see my position as a woman or lover as changed in the least. The abortion was an extreme inconvenience (that with a little more prudence on my own part could hi:lve been avoided) that was eased by the understanding of friends and the people in the clinic. Cheap abortions are easy to come by- but the quality in this case was much more important. It's not right to trade your health for a less expensive, and not as reputable, clinic. Abortions, when done under the proper conditions, are very safe and accessible. The fear of them only develops because of fallacies and stigmas surrounding the procedure. Abortions are just another fact of life that must be dealt with.

·. i' ' . ' ' y - e n 0 re \. ( ' I • I. CONCORDIENS/S, Wednesday, Feb. 11, 1976 Page 13 calendar Th.urs.~ :February 12 International Relations Club is presenting the Khaletski Fo,lk Singers. This Russian couple, who recently escaped from the Soviet Union, wi:ll sing and then sit with the audience and talk about culture and the arts of Russia and their reactions since arriving in the United States. This is the second part of Russian Diss.ident Week. All are welcome to enjov the enter- tainment and to· hear first hand accounts about life in the Soviet Union. Free admission and refreshments will be served. \Lust for Life\ sponsored by the Arts Symposium. 8 and 10 p.m. SSOI6 Free Admission. WRUC will broadcast an interview with Clare Graves and Byron Nichols concerning arts at Union in conjunction with Arts Symposium ~ 7:30. Clothing and Construction: Susanne J. Frisch, . Union's new costume designer and weaver. will hold 4 more sessions on clothing construction. Classes begin at 7:30 m the Nott Memorial Theater. Questions, call x6128. Bill Horwitz, 8:30. Mother's Wine Emporium. RPI, Trov. Abe Lincoln, born 1809 · Fri.~ February 13 Philosophy Seminar. Ms. Stephanie Ross. who is a candidate for a positioN in the Philosophy Department. wi II preseNt a talk on \Realism in Art.\ A graduate of Smith College. Ms. Ross is a Ph.D. candidate at Harvard University. RefreshmeRts following the seminar. All interested persons are invited to attend. Women's Basketball, Union vs. St. Rose at 7:00 in the Field House. Carl Dreyer's \Passion of Joan of Arc\ Free and Sponsored by P.R. CommiHee in SS 0~6 at 8:00 Film Committee presents AMARCORD at 10:00 in SSO 16. Admis'iion is $1.00. Scott Alarik, contemporary and traditional folk. 8:30 in Old Chapel. Jack Hardy, topical singer. songwriter. 8:30 C.C. Assembly HalL SUNY A. 1400 Washington Ave. Bill Horwitz, 8:30, Mother's Wine Emporium. RPI. Troy Hot Mud Family, string band. 8:30. Caffe Lena. 45 Phila St.. Saratoga. 584-9789 Sat.~ February 14 Valentine's Day Indoor Track in the Field house. Union vs. Colgate and Albany at 12:00 p.m. Freshmen Hoopo, Union vs. R PL Field House at 6:00 Film Committee presents ARMACORD. $1.00 admission. At 7, 9, and 11 in SS 016 Varsity Basketball, Union vs. C.W. Post at 8:00 in the Field House. Alan Alexander and Friends, classical guitar concert. 8 p.m .. Memorial Chapel. Free. Hamlet, R PI Players Fifteenth St. Lounge, R Pl. Troy. $2.00 admission. 270-6503 Jack Hardy, topical singer. songwriter. 8:30. Freeze-Dried Coffeehouse. SUNY A Bill Horwitz, 8:30. Mother's Wine Emporium. R PI. Troy Hot Mud Family, string band. 8:30. Caffe Lena. 45 Phila St.. Saratoga. 584-9789 Sun., February 15 Film Committee presents AMARCORD. AT 7, 9, ~ . AND II !:'\: SS 016. $1.00 admi•.sion Straus~ Lounge: 7:30 p.m. celebration of Catholic Mass, followed hy a social. Students. faculty. staff all welcome! Sponsored by Bewman Campus Ministry. Recital: Betty Balenta, organist. Julia Howard Bush Memorial Center. Russell Sage College. 4 p.m .. admission free Ron Davis Quartet, Dave Samuels. 8 p.m .. Ramada Inn POSCRIPT We, The Free Theatre, R PI Chapel and Cultural Center. 2125 Burdett Ave .. Troy. Free. 274-7793 Hot Mud Family, striNgband, 8:30. Caffe Lena, 45 Phila St.. Saratoga. 584-9789 Mon., February 16 Town Meeting, 8:00 in the Alumni Gym Intellectual Cabaret: 8:30. Byron Nichols and Peter Tohiessen will discuss \Academic Research and Social Responsibility\ Free Refreshments. WRUC Executive Board Meeting at 7:30 in the Station lounge on the 'iecond floor of Carnegie Hall. Anyone intere-.ted in di,cu..,,ing an~ area of WRl'C is inYited to attend. Poscript, We, the Free Theatre, RPI Chapel and Cultural Center. 2125 Burdett Ave. Troy. Free. 274-7793 Washington, George horn'l'l Tues., February j 7 Film Committee presents \Ten Little lndiam\ at 7. 9, and II in SS016 Autobiography of Miss Jane Pittman, 11:30 a.m., Schenectadv Countv Public l.ihrary. Free. 382-3500 POSCRIPT, We The Free Theatre, R PI Chapel and Cultural Center. 2125 Burdett Ave .. Troy. 274-7793 * •. * \' Calendar information must be received by Monday in the Con- corditnsis Office or call Sheryl Farber at 37o-6480. Please . ~~ mclude all nec~ssary information and a. brief de.scription of event. If you are planning an event and would like· the rest of the ,:ollege community to know about it, .please let _,. kn9w. LETTERS anyperson ln addition, you should know romulans unite Continued from Page 9 seriously believe that humans are the only intelligent life forms in th~ universe! Such ethnocentricity is unthinkable! directed towards them by Robert Baker and his ilk. We, the members of T.U.R.D. can not stand silent and witness such obvious racism. We call upon the writers of \Name Game\ and ··Huperson.,.. to retract their vicious slanders. would wake up. and realize that the universe is larger than the concerns of their own p\Ct minority group, then the universe would be a better place for all of us. ·Continufd from Page· 9· • that, , recognizing the heavy demand on the College's outdoor shifting the women's inter• tennis courts, the Athletic collegiate tennis program from Committee has strongly the spring to the fall. These -recommended that the Athletic discussions were conducted Department open the four tennis entirely within the Athletic courts designed' in Achilles Rink Department. We do intend to at the conclusion of the winter review this policy change, skating season. These courts however and we would naturally could add appreciably to our welcome communications from recreational facilities, particularly any member of the College on. inclement or windy days and community on this issue. at night. 5) The Athletic Department For the Athletic Committee emphatically states that its Professor Thomas R. Kershner decision in no way represents a Department of Economics reduced commitment to either Professor ·Elizabeth Mansfield women's intercollegiate athletics Department of English or to its program to implement Professor 1. Werner Title iX. Department of Chemistry Ombudsmen Continued from Page 1 member has violated his privileges and has committed an offense. B. Violation against - Any student who feels that his rights to free access have been infringed upon may seek recourse through the proper channels. If he or she is not satisfied, then they may state their grievance to this committee. 2. Privacy in terms of own possessions until legally taken away. Privacy does not include the exclusive use or control over any co-occupied room or building on this campus. do they have the right to perpetrate any criminal action against another person in the College community. (e.g. the illegal possession of drugs and 1 or stolen articles. stealing, extortion, coercion and hlackmail.) Violation of - Anv member of the College community who feels that his right to he free from crime has heen unduly infringed upon hv anv student. facultv or staff ~emh~r may pursue· the proper channels to alleviate these problems. If dissatisfied with the results. he or she would have recourse with this committee. 4. Protection against and lt is exactly the type of racism that is embodied in the term \chairperson\ that our organization, the Tribunal Uni- ted against Romulatory Discrimination, has sought to stamp out. The term \chairperson\ implies that the one who presides is a person. Yet, there are thousands of life forms throughout the universe that are capable of presiding despite their nonhuman physiology. One such group is the Romulans. Little Romulans are growing up all over the universe wondering why they can't preside. Poor little oppressed Romulans cry out at the brutal prejudice available. 5. Freedom from blatantly obscene or offensive behavior (including malicious harassment or persecution). Violation - Any member of the College community who feels that he or she has been subject to such behavior may seck recourse through the proper channels. Violators. or those who know of violators should report and answer to this committee. Violation of - Any student who feels that his roommate, fellow student or other person has violated his right of privacy shall seek recourse through this committee. freedom from bodily harm or threat to health. 6. Protection against wilful or irresponsible destruction of personal or community property, The College's property is not owned by any single person or group of people. Rather, it is here for the entire community; therefore, any form of destruction to any piece of community property is destructive to the entire school and this is intolerable.- Violators. llr those who know of vwlators, must answer or report to this committee. 3. Right to live in a crime-free environment, Every member of the College community has the right to be protected and free from crime. That is, no person in or out of the College community has the right to include another person in this community, against his will, in a criminal action, nor Violation of - No member of. or members of. the College community may physically abuse or molest another member or outsider. Moreover, the College has an obligation to insure the community members safety by maintaining its facilities, having adequate protection by its Security FGrce, and by assuring 4.hat a competent medical staff is 7. All rules and guidelines as established in the Union College Catalogue and Student Life Handbook shall be upheld by this committee. It is important to note that the COC will emphasize discussion and communication, rather than a T.U.R.D. believes that linguistic equality can be achieved. We propose that the racist term \chairperson\ be replaced with the fairer term \chair~intelligent-life-form··. \Manager\ can be supplanted by \intelligent-Hfe-formager\. \Man 0' War\ can he replaced with \lnt¢lligent~Life--Form~o· War\. Carol Mann can be replaced with Carol Intelligent-Life-Form. Such conversions would make our language fairer and more. intelligent-life-form-ane. lt is the least we can do for our Romulan Jessica Atreides~Envoy from the Bene Gesserit Chuck Bodner '78 Decius~Ambassador from Romulus A. Marc Gnessin '76 Jack Hinton '77 Bob Howard '78 Mark LiCalzi '77 Brian J. Shoot '76 Vice-chair- inteiUgent-life form cousins. narrow-minded as Judy Dein, Kohn, Jo-Anne and Robert Baker If such individuals Marjorie Messina, purely legalistic approach. Dean Mark Smith has recommended that the \concept of committee of peers would be more useful and wiser than the concept of court.\ Spake - Chair-intelligenMife- form Xmnl- Unic \We all are intelligent life forms under the laws of Minerva.\ Dea_n Smith said that his office was \one-hundred percent behind\ the COC and would \'back the committee up completely.\ Inside abortion Lontmued from Page 10 correctly, was quite effective. I he follow-up examination was scheduled for two weeks later; I was now free to go home. After resting in bed for the remainder of the day, I was back to normal that evening. I had been warned about \post- abortion\ depression. I experienced this only once and when compared to the extreme emotional relief I felt, depression seemed non-existent. l did not feel guilty about having the abortion -- it was just not the time to be pregnant. The fact that l loved the person I was pregnant by only strengthened the decision for abortion - pregnancy was just too far removed from both our lives (or so we thought). Months later, it all seems like a dream. I rarely think of my abortion and do not see my position as a woman or lover as changed in the least. The abortion was an extreme inconv.enience (that with a little more prudence on my own part could hd ve been avoided) that was eased by the understanding of friends and the people in the clinic. Cheap abortions are easy to come by - hut the quality in this case was much more important. It's not right to trade your health for a less expensive. and not as reputable, clinic. Abortions. when done under the proper conditions, are very safe and accessible. The fear of them only develops because of fallacies and stigmas surrounding the procedure. Abortions are just another fact of life that must be dealt with.

, Page 14 CONCORDIENSJS, Wednesday, Feb. I l, 1976 '-. . . . . . : . > . . - ' . . . . ' . . '. . ··. '· ' . . . . . 0 • • • • •• : • BU ·, ffiN B6Afl5 Are you Interested in carpentry work? Do you have the ability and skill to plan and construct studios, undertake major painting jobs and wall construct-ion as well as intricate sound proofing? If you are one of those lucky. very gifted individuals who indeed possess these skills or are interested in acquiring them, well WRUC-FM may just have the position for you. Not only is the job of Studio Maintenance Director an excellent way of getting into things at R U C. but it is a stepping-stone to other positions at the station. If you are interested in maintaining the physical plant of WRUC, please contact Lloyd Saberski- Station Manager at 370-6150 or Mark Seltzer at 370-6662. · There will be a meeting for all members of O.'D.E. and for all those interested in helping in the formation of the economics club Tuesday, February 17 at 4:00 in Strauss Lounge. All o;;tudents who are interested in working in the Dutch Hollow (restaurant-pub) in any capacity should complete an application in the Personnel Office. Silliman Hall. as .soon as possible. fm interested .In buying a pair of men's ice skates - either figure or hockey - size 9Y,. If you have a used pair to sell, could vou please call Paul at 346-9225? WANTED: Stratomatic baseball players for season c;ontinuing· through end of Spring Term. All interested contact lance. 359 Fox. at 370-6706. - WRUC reminds the entire student body that a rideboard is aired tV{ice daily at 6:30 and 10:30 PM. if you are in need of a ride or rider, leave your first name and phone number at the station (second floor r:arnegie). The success of the rideboard is solely determined by the use it receives from the students. The Cla$sifieds Page of the-New CONCORDIEN_SIS is primarily a student service; as such, all material submitted will be published FREE of charg~. To insure that the items submitted are printed, all copy MUST be in by Monday at 8:00 PM. Items to be repeated must have the number of runs specified. The Union College CONCORDlENSIS assumes no responsibility for typographical errors,. but will print a correction. If you want a ride, or you have something to sell, or you simply want to see something of your own printed up in a major world publication, PLEASE, don't hesitate! This is a FREE service, so take advantage of it. If you wish to submit material which conforms to the format of the Classifieds Page, simply .slip it under the Concordy Office door (third floor Carnegie) or leave it with yours truly, Todd Miller at. 224 West. The Box Office of. the Nott Memorial· Theatrll! needs people. If you'd like to get involved in the Mountebanks and still have plenty of study time. come to the Green -Room inN ott at your convenience. The Campus Voh:e will be meeting every Monday night at 6:30 p.m. in Strauss Lounge. If yo\}'re interested in investigative reporting, photo-journalism, or you have some ideas for articles that you'd like to see written up, please come. Faculty and staff are also urged to contdbute to the paper. The resui1S of the Outlna Club cross· couutry naee of Sat., 2{7 are as follows: lst: Jim Boyer; 2nd: Robert Lein; 3rd: Rich Earl. All thCJSe Interested in planning the Senior Class dinner-dance to be held Friday, June II, please leave your name with Mrs. Marra in the Student Activities Office. The Phi Kappa Theta fraternity at RPI will be having one of their \bad\ band parties featuring the highly-touted rock sensation, 'Adrenalin.' Friday, Feb. l3 from 9 p.m.-2 a.m. 20, count 'em, 20 kegs will be on hand to liven the festivities. For further information call 272-9407. Come bere Jad Clark, national secretary for tbe Democratic Sodalht 0r&llli2inl Committee. Topic: \A Socialist Analysis of Today's Problems.\ This Thursday, Feb. 19 at 7 p.m. at SS 115, Union College. 'Financial Aid A:pplica tions Applications ftr all form:, of financial aid are now av<ilable at the Office of Student Aid. Ole Gym H a'll. Students desiring renewal 'flf aid !IS well as those 'eekin!!an original.;<:rant of assistance must 'uhmit applicatiom. In addition to <cholarshi_r~ .. applications mu~t ·be filed for Grant-in-Aids. Collef!e Work Studv. Board Jobs and Loans. Apf)lications. for aid must be submitted no later than March I. 1·976. The Basic Educational Opportunity Grant (BEOG:) applications for the 1976- 77 vear are available in the Student Aid Offlce. Previous recipients must file an application each vear. New applicants ~might wish to discuss the possibility of qualifying for an award with the Director of Student Aid. Part-Time Jobs: The Placement Office has information on part-time jobs on and off campus. Stop in and ask at tbe Placement Office. SENIORS: PLACE YOUR ORDER for graduation announcements with Mrs. Marra in Student Activities. Attention Students Summer Employment: If you are interested in a work experience program in entertainment for an eleven week session - June 13- August 28, 1976 at Disneyland in California, please come to the Placement Office for further information. LOST: ·one pair of bn:.wn leather gloves -in SS Lo11nge. Personal. gift of value - ·reward. -Contact D. P.luiller at 346-9225. LOST: One boy's blue sock. This sock has great sentimental value, so plc(lse. if you find it. ,retmn it to .me .at Beta. Ask for Peter McManus. i.ost - One dear royal father. Answers to the name of Alonso. Can. be id~ntified. by continual utterance of the phrase \Monstrous monstrous!!!\ If found, prate on him. RIDES' RIDE WANTED for any Weekend to the University of Pennsylvania or the University of New Hampshire. More than happy to share driving and expenses. Call Elizabeth Dinnel, 116 Davidson, at 370- 6693. RIDE WANTED to Cornell: leaving Friday 21 13, returning Sunday 2/15. Will share driving and expenses. Contact John or Harvey at 346-9225. RIDE WANTED: to Boston or Worchester, on Thurs. 2/12 or Fri. 2/13. Contact Rolf at 313 Davidson; or phone 6561. FOR SALE. FOR SALE: Martin 12-strin~ guitar. in excellent condition. Startinl! price $350. hut will haggle. If interested. contact Prof. Reynolds, 370-6246. FOR SALE: Rossignol skis. ST 650's: 207 em.: ROC' 550's: 205 em. Both are in eXcellent condi't-inn and have Ramv I French) bindir•!!'· Reasonably ;priced. Cafl 3.70-6608 before or after this weekend. FOR SALE: one pair semi-used WinnWell 1:(;61 Goaltender leggua rds. Price: first hom male •child. Will haggle: contact Andv. 205 Edwards. at 346-9658, FOR SALE: Texas l.nstrurnents. SR\II (electronic slide rule calculator). One-year• old. excellent condition: comes with box. adaptor':chatl!er. ca.rrying case and instruction booklet. $50. Contact Chris Vilardi. 302 McKean at 346-9303. 1%9 Triumph Spitfire (MK HI). Extras inelude convertahle and hard-top. steel- ·belted radial tires and luggage rack. It has a new battery, rear ·universal joints, plus other new parts. Asking $995. :If interested, call337-4787 or 377·9RJ7 and ask for Rem. FOR .SALE: Sansui Amplifier 30 watts I channel and two pairs ()f spe:!kers. Call 372-3551. FOR SALE: Various guitars. This week's special: jumbo acoustic 12- string. Guild thin-line acoustic-electric G- strinf!. Also repairs .and maintainance on all !!Uitars. lnstruct.ion. All reasonably rriced. Call 374-3621. Used Simplex 'Prestice' lO•speed bike derailleurs (both front and rear) and shifting levers. List price: $20.85, will sell for $10.00. Call· Bo.b, 203 Webster, 346- 9426. fD'DAT'S CIISSIDBD PVZZLB New Citizen Newspaper: Is looking for a student who would like some experience working on all aspects of a newspaper: reporting. editing. paste-up . .layout, etc.; and also a student who would be interested in the advertising and solicitin!! of this paper. RIDE WANTED to Boston the weekend ·of Feb. 13 leaving Friday. Contact Sharon, 356Fox, at 346-9692. RIDE NEEDED to Boston ~ Thurs. or Fri., the. I 2th or 13th. P-lease call Marcia at 393-3953. Will share gas, driving and expenses. FOR SALE: Audiovox 8 - track stereo (FM) radio adapter. Fits into any car 8-track svstem: includes •antenna and· plug-in devic~. Like new, used for two weeks. $30. If interested. contact o~ner at ~93-8239. ACROSS 1 Stupid people 6 Raging 11 Zoo animal 14 Garden dor- mouse 15 Soy's n!tme 16 Organic duct 17 The last 18 Whale-like 20 Convene 22 Get - ---- out of 23 Zodiac sign 25 ----- Head: Wardrobe expert 28 \East of ----\ 29 Actress --- Todd 30 Of a Euro- pean nation 32 Staff of attendants 34 Embassy members 39 Betrayer of a trust 42 Emu's rela- tive 43 Sentry 45 Early U.S. fur merchant 46 Roman---·--- 49 Tap drink 50 Door frame 54 Lateral surfaces 55 Recognized 56 ·show off: 2words 58 Passed imperceptibly 60 Vouch for 63 Wrong-doing 66 Lawyer: Abbr. 67 Reject with derision 68 Savage 69 Notice 70 Honor with words 71 Ecclesiastical council DOWN 1 Mr. Ziegfeld 2 Orig. eqpt. mfr. 3 Portland resident 4 Yukon mountain 5 Ending with helio and hydro 6 Move back 7 South -----·· 8 Small amount 9 Dock-work· ers' union: Abbr. 10 Ten: Prefix 11 Shun 12 Hesitate 13 German city 19 Before 21 Pronoun 23 Endures 24 Habituate 26 Marshal----: Eur. dictator 27 Head cover- ings 30 Obtain entrance: 2 words 31 Accompany- ing birth 33 ---for tat: Retaliation 35 Bookkeeping entries: Abbr. 36 Baseball play 37 Fr. students' milieu 38 Shakespeare character 40 Blame 41 Oar: Prefix 44 Accountants( books 47 Cause to abate 48 \---was saying\ 50 Long narratives 51 Sharpat~ end 52 Condition 53 \Ben --··· 55 Irish county 57 Just gone by 59 Eugene ----: Socialist 61 Cpl .• e.g. 62 Up-- -point 64 Ear: Prefiilc 65 Color Please call Mr. Carl Saindon for .further information on 377-5524. Thse will be • Union Collece Fencing Club meet1u1, Thursday, 2/ f9, at 8:00 p.m. in the Block U Room of the Alumni Gym. If you ·have any questions, please call Greg Scott at 372-9716. APfs R00111111ate wanted, spring term. Nice place two blocks from the campus. Furnished. Own bedroom. Living room. Close to the market, bank, etc. SSO/month -' per person (heat and hot water included). About $10/month per person gas and electric. Contact Mike, .. campus box #R. ROOMMATE WANTED: One block from the college. Furnished. Very close to the market. laundry, post office. bank New and clean. Call 382-8560 or 372-8841. Ask for Alev. If I'm nol in, leave your telephone number. Female housemate wanted for Spring Term in a congenial Wendell Ave. apartment. Five minute walk from campus, four bedrooms. two fireplaces (living room. back yard). inexpensive. Don't miss out on the joys of spring off-campus. Call: 377-4904. LOST&FOUND LOST: a double-strarrd .liquid silver necklace with brown beads. Great senitmental value. If found. please call 370- 6763. . LOST: from IFC' Ball Coatroom - a French. blue-grey suede shearling-lihed knee length coat. Reward! Contact Lori at 370-6733. No qUestions asked. LOST: ]ady's glove. left hand. Tan, vinyl: long cuff. If found. please call 374-3600. FOUND: Gold Ringed Earing - if Ieist call6570. LOST - Male mutt. part beagle, name Tim. brown back. white chest and legs. brown collar. 6-8 months old. call 372-893.5. LOST' .: One beige sheepskin lined stadium coat fro the skellar last Saturday night -contact Paul 370-6484, 251 Fox. LOST: one bovs blue sock. If found. please return to Pete McMannus at Beta. ·RIDE WANTED to LI or NYC, 2/.12 or 2/13. Call Jon, 151 Davidson, at 370-6521. RIDE WANTED to Conn. (Hartford), 2/13: returning 2/15. Call Donna, 346. 9212. RIDE WANTED to U Conn. (or Springfield, Mass. bus station) Valentine's Day weekend. Will share expenses. Call Deb. 115 Davidson, at 6711. 1) RIDE WANTED to Florida around March 15th. Will split all costs. Call Linda at 374-6700. or Candy at 372-(}216. , RIDE WANTED to Springfield. MASS. Contact Mike at 370-6507. RIDE WANTED for two to NYC; to leave on or about Thurs. Feb. 26. Call Jon. 372-9910. RIDE desperately needed by earnest. hardworking yoUng man to Garden City. NY (Nassau County), or NYC on· Thursday. Feb. 12 after 2:20 so he can look for summer employment during that weekend. He also needs a ride back on Sunday the 15th. Won't you help keep him off the bread line? Please ca11 Pete at 6560. Rid~ wanted to the Boston area on Thursday,. February 12th and back to Union on Sunday the 15th. Will share all expenses. Cal} Mark at 370-6662. WANTED: Ride to Cornell or University of Pennsylvania on Thurs., Feb. 12, or Fri., Feb. 13. Will share driving and expenses. Contact Ellie, 424 West, at 346- 9292. RIDE WANTED to Texas. any convenient date. Will share driving and expenses. Call: 8H7-2848. FOR SALE:. Sin 10 ski boots. LANGE PRO with Flo~ Used about ten times. List rrice: $150 new: will sell at $45. Call Dave at RR2-9373 .or 237-0785. FOR SALE: '64 Epiphone Wilshire. Good condition. Asking $175. Contact Craig 377-7107. , FOR SALE: Pioneer CSR-500 speakers. 3- way 10\ woofer. l year old. list $169; pair $165. Call Gringo at 346-9272. FOR SALE: Two pairs .of racing skis: Volkl carbon, used less than one year, worth $40, excellent condition; and K2 Competition, $20. Prices flexible, must sell. Contact Tom at 203 Edwards. SKIS FOR SALE: A.ttenhofer-Davos 190 em skis. Excellent condition, must sell. Call 346-9973 and ask for Jim. To PrQipero: Watch out fellow! If I ever get this chain off my leg, your ass is grass! M. I love you ••• but the strongest oaths are straw to th' fire i' th' blood. Know what I mean? (Dinner an<l breakfast at my house?) F. Help! Stuck on a desert bland! Weird things happening! Ride needed to Naples, Milan, or general vicinity. Contact Antonio after Feb. 25 at 6128. One malic cloak with m•tchln& staff. Used for only twelve years by usurped Duke. Contact P. at 370-6153; his daughter answers the switchboard. Available after March6. Monstrous, moustro)ls!!! Lost- one dear royal son; Answers to name of Ferdinand. Last seen beating the surges under him. If found please return to· Alonso, King .of Naples. APPLICATION FOR ARTS SYMPOSIUM NAM~~------------------------------- ..~ YEA~- ------------------------------------ PHON&---------------------------------- BO·A---------------------- MAJOR:------------~------~------ Enclosed is the one dollar fee to ensure my participation. Sincerely.- ' >t . .J~ i'l ' ;_~{ .,,, I:.~ ~' '

y j t e 2 ], ], t y .. , ., ' ' .:t . -, ·~·!! ,1;~ ~-· \ { ' ' j • ? I I} 1 /f \'/> li Page 15 Matmen defeat Williams by NEAL A. SCHWARTZ With only two meets left on the schedule, Union College grapplers boast a solid 12-4 record. Last Saturday, Union's matmen substantially defeated Williams 43-6 and also topped M.I.T. 28- 14. Against Williams, Union forfeited the 142 pound category, but, they won every other weight class. Tonight Union is opposing Colgate in Hamilton, N.Y. to leave one more meet on their schedule. Recently, the Dutchmen were given the nation's 20th rank in Division Ill by the Amateur Wrestling News. Union's last meet of the season will be in Alumni Gym next Tuesday, February 17 against Binghamton, State, the nation's 4th ranked Division Ill · team. This proves to be a very important encounter and a win would surely advance talk of Union's wrestling program tremendously. Six members of the squad deserve recogmtwn for their efforts. Kevin Hallenback at 126 pounds is 12-2-1 for the season.' Larry Dagostino, a well respected athlete, is 14-2. Jim Sutton remains undefeated with a 13-0-1 record. Sutton shut-out Dick Rhodes of Williams 7-0 and also defeated Brown of M.l.T. with a 20-2 score. Rhodes of Williams Track Stats SHOT PUT 1, Yelverton, Oswego, 51'2lh 2, Pourier, Spring, 49'6 3, IJnmcJiini, Spring, 49'1 4, Sylvain, Spring, 43'lh 5, Hamm, Oswego, 43'0\ LONG JUMP 1, Noyes, Spring, 22' 4 2, Ricks, Union, 21'9% 3, Dragone, Spring, 21'8 4, Korman, Spring, 21'61/.1 5 1 Acea, Oswego, 20'8 TWO MILE RELAY 1, Springfield, 8:00.4 2, Union, 8:00.4 3, Oswego, 8:10.0 4, Westfield St., 8:17.1 HIGH JUMP 1, Nowak, Oswego, 6'6 2, Plumer, Union, 6'2 3, Crimmins, Union, 6'2 4, Rogers, U Iii on, 6'2 S, Bosbach, Oswego, 6'2 MILE RUN t, Scheuer, Union, 4:20.5 2, Dillon, West St., 4:21.1 3, O'Lo.ughlin, Spring, 4:32.3 4, Russell, Spring, 4:33.3 5, Farrell, Spring, 4:34.5 55 HURDLES I, Deutch, Spring, 7.0 2, Decker, Union, 7.1 3, Semerao, Oswego, 7.2 4, Gomes, Spring, 7.3 5, Parish, Union, 7.7 POLE VAULT I, Ricks, Union, 14'0 2, Wark, Oswego, 14'0 3, Lapolla, Oswego, 13'6 4, Mastaitis, Union, I 3'0 5, Robidoux, West St., 12'6 1000 1, Scheuer, Union, 2:17.3 2, Wise, Spring, 2:17.3 3, Yorderer, West St., 2:18.2 4, Owen, Oswego, 2:18.9 5, Papirio, Spring, 2:20.4 2 MILE l, McCann, Spring, 9:19.4 2, Jones, Union, 9:21.2 3, Peltz, Spring, 9:28.1 4, ·Orlando, Oswego, 9:40.4 5, White, West St., 9:46.2 MILE RELAY l, Springfield, 3:27.8 2, Union, 3:29.5 3, Oswego, 3:34.2 4, Westfield St., 3:36.4 TRIPLE JUMP I, Bosbach, West St., 45'5\tl 2, Rappold, Union, 42'SV:z 3, Korman, Spring, 41'6 4, Chilton, Union, 40'8'.4 5, Nystrom, Oswego, 40'6* had been previously unbeaten. Mike Paquette at 167 pounds posts a 23-1 decision over Tavornina of M.LT. and pinned May of Williams in 3:43. Mike is 14-1--1 for the season. Tom Everett stands at eleven wins, 4 ·losses, and one tie and J-.osh Salzman is now 9-4. Freshman Cliff Farell is a prime example of the success the matrrten have ex,hibited this season. CI'iff, who weighs around 165 pounds, wrestled off against a teammate at 190 pounds to gain Union's berth at that category. He met his first competition against R.P.l. and lost in a 13-7 decision. But, Cliff showed that it is possible to wrestle 25 pounds over your true weight when he pinned Fleischaker of M.l.T. and also pinned Karl H uhbard of Williams. What makes this even more noteworthy is that Hubbard had been previously undefeated. Chuck Fenson debuted at the R.P.l. meet in the heavyweight division. He seemed to be a bit rusty in the match and he was pinned. Against Williams last Saturday, Chuck showed that his previous match was to be chalked up to experience as he pinned Hart of Williams in 5:57. Union College's wrestling team, coached by Bruce Freeman, will see their last dual competition next Tuesday night at 7:00 on the mats' in Alumni Gym against Binghamton State. 0. UNION 43, WILLIAMS 6 118-DeBlois, U, dec. Miller, 604. l26•Hallenback, U, won by forfeit. 134-Dagostino, U, dec. Fletcher, 8- 142-Williams, W, .won by forfeit. 150-Sutton, U, dec. Rhodes, 7-0. 158-Everett, U, dec. Conant, 10·6. 167-Paquette, U, pinned May, 3:43. 177-Salzman, U_, won by forfeit. 190-Farrell, U, pinned Hubbard, 4:23. Hwt.-Fenson, U, pinned Hart, 5:57. UNION 28, MIT 14 US-Isaacson, MIT, dec. DeBlois, 5-2. 126-Hallenback, U, dec. Hairspon, 3-2. . 134-Dagostino, U, dec. Haag, 12~ 5. 4. 142-Scire, MIT, dec. Redder, 19·3. 150-Sutton, U, dec. Brown, 20·2. 158-Everett, U, dec. Davidson, 11- 167-Paquette, U, dec. Tavornina, 23-1. 177-Salzman, U, dec. Wrobel, 5·2. Fl!i::~~:;,r;:~ 7 . U, pinned , Hwt.-Van Lithe De Jaeude, MIT, won by forfeit. Facial expressions tell it like it is. Swimmers find the going· tough lntramurals Having three meets within four days, this past week was no picnic for the Union College swimming team. Last Wednesday the Dutchmen faced the Great Danes of Albany State at Albany. Swimming in a fast pool, many of Union's swimmers achieved personal best times. Because of a lack of depth and divers, however, Coach Magee's boys were forced to accept defeat.· Sophomore Tom Burgess showed guts and determination by doing fast times in the 200 yd. bac-kstroke and medley relay. Young Al Hertzberg turned in a career best in the 200 yd. individual medley but lost first place by one hand length. Tom Richardson and brother Doug continued their winning streak in · the 200 yd, backstroke and 200 yd. and. 500 yd. freestY,le, respectively. Sophomore Jim Lowe fought hard to get first place in the 200 yd. breaststroke. On Friday night a strong St. Lawrence team with six All- Americans made the -five hour drive from Canton to Schenectady to face Union's swimmers. Although the Dutchmen were soundly defeated, they gave St. Lawrence a run for their money in several events. and, as in Albany, rpost of the swimmers turned in close to best or best times. The highlight of the evening's competition was Doug Richardson setting a new school record for the I 000 yd. freestyle. The following Saturday, Norwich University traveled to Schenectady and suffered defeat at the hands of the Dutchmen. The competition, exciting and grueling, saw many outstanding performances and all of Union's swimmers turned in excellent times. Tornmy Burgess, a dark horse in the 200 back, won a close race and achieved his fastest time in the Foote pool. In the last home meet of his college career, Captain Tom Richardson won the by KEITH JACOBSON 200 yd. butterfly and was in the lrv Kaufman proved to be winning medley relay. Sophomore somewhat of a hero when he took Jim Lowe came from behind .to. an unexpected second place in the win the 200 yd. individual medley 500 yd. freestyle to secure victor} and took first in the 200 breast. for the Garnet. 400 Med. Rei;ay Union T. Richardson. Corbett. Lowt.. t Meter Diving l~t. Grime (N) 2nd. Hooven IN) 200 yd. Fly Burgess 1000 yd. Free I st. D. Richardson (U)11 :56.0 2nd. Cor)' (N) 12:29.2 · 3rd.Corvenka (N!,12:49.0 200 yd. Free l•t. Hertrherg (ll) 2:04.4 2nd. Moreii(N) 2:11.0 3rd. Kinj!(ll) 2:16.2 50 yd. Free I st Petfe~on (N) 24.5 ~nd. Corhe.tt (lll 24.7 3rd. Morrell (N) 25.2 200 yd. I.M. 1st. Lowe (\1)2:19.0 2nd. Steele IN) 2:20.0 3rd. Kaufman (ll) 2:3R.O l•t. T Richardson (0) 2:30.4 2nd. Carey (N) 2:34.4 Jrd. Pupek (N) 3:40.0 100 yd Free I st. Peterson IN) 5J.R 2nd. D. Richardscm (ll) 54.7 Jrd. Morell (N) 59.3 500 yd. Free I st. Hert7herg ({I) 5:49.g 2nd. Kaufman (lll 6:0R.O 3rd. Morrell (N) 6:15 200 yd. Breast I st. Lowe (-U)2:32.5 2nd. Corbett (li) 2:34.8 3rd. Pupek IN) 2:41.0 Skiers: • going strong Last week, four members of the Union College Ski Team traveled to West Point for their annual Ski meet. Since it has been rained out the last four years, it was a new experience for everyone involved. The Slalom was held on Saturday morning, and \Mother\ Mike Mcinerney placed 12th in the event followed by Tom Karis. Marty Chader and Ted Leisenring · missed gates in the unusually tricky course and were disqualified. After a brief but sumptuous box liunch furnished by West Point, the skiers traveled to the 20 meter Ski Jump. Union lacked depth in this event with only one member, \Top Cat\ Karis, even having flown on skis before. Conditions were fast as the Cadets had packed in a mixture of snow and ice to put on the barren jump. Stopping gracefully was impossible and usually entailed a sit out wipe out. Due to the conditions, however, a sophomore Cadet set consecutive· jump records of 68 and 69 feet. Karis placed in the low thirty's and Maclnerney and Leisenring were close behind despite the fact that they had only been off the jump once before the competitioh. On Sunday morning at 9:00 a.m. the Giant Slalom event began under cloudy skies. Before the race was half over, it was pouring outside, but determined to have a complete meet, the officials did not call the event off. Maclnerney and Karis again placed in the middle of the pack and Chader and Leisenring were eliminated. The hospitality of the U.S.M.A. was appreciated by all and despite an uninspiring overall showing by the Union College Team, the weekend was a unanimous success. Chlorine Carnival: The second annual Chlorine Carnival will be held on Saturday, Feb. 21, at I p.m. in the Alumni Gym Pool. Events include an inner tube relay, and a can-opener contest. Entries are due Friday, Feb. 20, in the Intramural office. Teams should consist of 3 males, and 3 females. First place is Italian Cuisine for 6 at Mother Ferro's. For more information, contact Bob Driscoll in Alumni Gym, ext. 61 19. Skate, Pass, and Shoot Contest: On Feb. 12 at 10 p.m. in the Achilles Rink the first annual - Skate, Pass, and Shoot contest will be held. The contest is open to all· interested students, faculty, and staff. Trophies will be presented to the first place male and female place getters. Table Tennis Tourney: A table tennis tournament will be conducted for all interested students, faculty, and staff during the week of Feb. 16. The tourney will be run in the Field House from 7:00-10:00, Monday through Sunday, on 4 brand new tables. To enter, contact Bob Driscoll in the Alumni gym. Trophies will be presented to the winners. TUG·o-WAR: \Who's the strongest?\ Now is the time to enter your team in the tug-o-war. Enter a team from your floor, dub, fraternity, etc. All entries must be submitted to the Intramural office by Feb. 23. Competition will take place the 24th at 7 p.m. in the Field House. Badminton tournament: On Feb. 28 at I p.m. in the Field House, there will be a badminton tournament for all those .nterested. Entries are due Feb. 27 in the Intramural office. Competition will consist of mens and womens singles elimination.

Page 16 CONCORDIENSIS, Wednesday, Feb. 11, 1976 concordy sports Skating Dutchmen add two • more wtns by BILL PECK Union's all freshmen hockey team kept up their winning ways last week, first taking an easy l0-2 win at Plattsburgh State and then returning home to beat North Adams (Mass.) State 5-l. Against Plattsburgh! the Dutchmen tallied twice in the early going only· to have the Cardinals, playing before their largest home crowd in 3 years, score twice themselves and tie the score at 2. Though the game was controlled by U ilion, Plattsburgh had a chance to take the lead when they had a breakaway, but Steve Baker, starting for the first time in 2 weeks, came up with the big save and the Cardinals ran out of gas. The Garnet netted 3 more first period goals to make it 5-2, and then breezed home with 5 more for the final of 10-2. Mike O'Connell led the Dutchmen with his second straight hat trick, and Kevin Kardos added a hat trick as well. Mario Giallonardo, Grant Judd, Brad Hinterberget and Donny Marshall also scored for the Dutchmen. Returning home Tuesday night, the Dutchmen thoroughly outplayed' the visiting Mohawks Legmen sec.,ond . by JEFF SCHEINENGER Last Friday, the Garnet legmen played host to Springfield, Oswego, and Westfield State. Springfield placed first in the meet with 52 points, Union turned in second with 45 points, Oswego was third and Westfield St. fourth, with 27, and 18 points respectively. A number of good efforts led the team to its second place berth. Freshman Kevin Scheuer won the mile run and the 1000 yard run for the second consecutive week. Once again, Dave Ricks took first place in the pole vault. Union again scored in the pole vault when Steve Mastaitis took fourth place. In both the one and two mile relays, the Garnet runners took second place. For the third time this year, Bob Moffat captured first place in the 600 yard run . In the two mile run, Steve Jones placed second, and in the 55 yard high hurdles, freshman Mark Decker took second, with Lee Parish placing fifth. Union fared very well in the jumping events. Dave Plumer, Keith Cummins, and Cliff Rogers placed second, third, and fourth respectively in the high jump. In the long jump, Dave Ricks placed second. In the final event, which was the triple jurrip, Don Rappold took second place, and Earl Chilton took a third place berth. The legmen turned in an excellent performance against these teams. It must be noted that Springfield has an exceptionally strong team. Their excellent showings in the relays, long jump, shot put, and 55 yard high hurdles, clearly illustrates this. The Garnets next meet is Saturday, Feb. 14, and is home against Albany State ansJ.---Colgate at 12:00 in'the Field House. of North Adams State. Though the final score was only· 5-l (\only\ showing how spoiled Union fans have become after 4 straight ll or more goal games at home), the Garnet were in control throughout the game and could have scored more except for some exceptional goaltending by State's second goalie Bill Gaffney. Kip Churchill led the Dutchmen with 2 goals, and Grant Judd, Mike O'Connell and Lou Thomann also chipped in with scores. Jim Baxter stopped 20 shots on goal,. however, he was hardly tested as most of the shots were from beyond the blue line. The win was. Union's 9th in a row, and keeps us atop the ECAC Di·vision U western division. With the playoffs less than a month away, and the Dutchmen seemingly unstoppable, the chances of Union having home ice for at least a game or two of the playoffs look awfully good. BOX SCORE Union Vs. Nor.lh Adams State PERIOD 1: Scoring - · I. Union. O'Connell. (Rankin. Jenkins). 1 :08; 2. Union. C'hmchill (Judd). 6:49: 3. Union. Judd (Kardm. Wri)!ht) 12:26. Penalties ·- Bagley. Union. hi)!h sticking. 8:07; Deil7er. North Adams. hil!h stickin)!. 8:07: Deschler. North Adams. interference. 9:08: Pavonne. North Adams. trippin)!. 13:59: · Mathews(ln. llnion. elhowifi!!. f:6:58. PERIOD 2: Scoring - 4. Union. Thomann (Ganola. Hamilton), 10:27. Pemilt·ies -· C'arritv. North Adams. slashin!! and high stickin!!. 7:02: Hamilton. !Inion. elhowin!!. 7:18: Mathewson. Union. elbowing. 12:20: Ba)!ley. Union. elbowing. 15:22. PERIOD 3: Scorin!! - 5. Union. Churchill (Bagley. Giallonardo): 37: 6. North Adams. Demer (Gianelli). 12:32. Penalties - Marshall. Union. High stickin!!. 2:01: O'Leary. North Adams. high stick in!!. 2:01: Ganola. Union. High stickin!!. 13:48: Hamilton-, Union. High sticking and roughing. misconduct. 3:48: Hoopsters bombard cadets McNau)!ht. North Adams. elbowing.I3:48: Deschler. North Adams. Hi!!h sticking. ' 13:.48; Wright. Union. slashing. 19:23. Total Shots: NA 21. U 49 Total Saves: NA 44. U 20. The final buzzer, after what seemed an eternity, had just sounded. The referee hustled over to the ballplayer holding the game ball, his hands held out in routine expectation of receiving the balL The player looked at the official, then down at the rounded leather cradled in his arms, back at the- striped shirt and then very casually tossed the ball off · the court, forcing the referee to chase after it. It was a simple act, a gesture of disgust, a release of pent-up frustration. Under any other circumstances the move would've been labeled bush, but last Saturday evening, in Memorial Fieldhouse it acutely epitomized the feelings of players, coaches and spectators alike. The Union basketball squad had just routed the Mariners of Kings point 89- 69, in what normally should have' been a highly pleasing and entertaining contest for the Garnet home crowd. Instead, save for a super individual effort by John Denio and a few brief flashes of brilliant team defense, the game,. thanks to the manifest incompetence of the referees, proved to be little more than a futile exercise in boredom. The lack of official supervision and game control in the past few years, in all sports, on all levels, has inspired much public outrage. These people point to the countless brawls of professional hockey, to the Minnesota-Ohio State basketball bloodbath of a few years back as prime examples of the potentially disastrous results in allowing such practices to continue unchecked. They claim, among other things, that these unrestrained actions completely destroy the athletically compet·itive essence of the sport. If adherents of this viewpoint are correct in their charges (and I believe they are), a cogent argument can also be made for the other extreme. That is, if a game can be ruined by lack of regulation, so too can it be undermined by too much by BILL HENSON supervtston, by oppressive officiating that reduces the game to self-parody, strangling its graceful flow of continual motion, only to replace it with nothing more appealing than a mid- January tour of Jackson's Garden. Point match-up, especially in the second half. The referees charged a total of sixty-five fouls, one every forty seconds, stifling any · semblance of enjoyable basketball in the process (and this doesn't even include all the turnover calls). Only once, midway into the lst period, did the Garnetmanage to briefly elude the ever present whistle, when for two minutes they prevented the Mariners from advancing into the forecourt. Pete Girls drop three The Union College Women's basketball team lost three games m a row this past week. First came the female turkies from RPI; it seemed that someone fed them a little too much' in the coop before the game,· as the girl engineers bombed the Dutchwomen 65-34. Cathy Reals scored 10, Liz Yager 9, and Dorina Sockell 8, in a losing effort. Against Utica tbe outcome was similar. The final score was 70-39, Utica's favor. Donna Sockell accounted for 21 points while Lynn Bateman pumped in 6. Tuesday night's game against Berkshire Community College could possibly be entered in the Guiness Book of World Records. BCC destroyed Union 113-22. Donna Sockell was the bright spot for the yearlings, scoring 7 points while .suffering from an errant elbow fo.dged in her lower lip. The Garnettes'. next game is this Friday, the 13th, in the Field House at 7 pm. The girls will go up against the College of St. Rose. Meola, John Denio and Gary Borgese all stole the ball at least once and converted for hoops as Union opened a 21-12 margin that was never seriausly threatened. Other than that Dutchmen fans could only find solace in Denio's expert performance (26 points, 5 steals and 3 assists) and the tl;)am's overall accuracy from the foul line (23-26). In conclusion, I have but one suggestion. In recent years Coach Scanlon and opposing mentors were asked to grade the officials' · performances after each game for review purposes. This season the practice was abandoned. ~fter last Saturday's farce it mig~t be a · good idea to reinstate the tradition, retroactive to the Kings Point game, if possible. · UNION 89 Union FG FT TP Denio 11 4-5 26 Fisher 2 5-7 9 Kelly 3 6-6 12 Borgese 3 3-5 9 Walker M.D. 5 2-2 12 Meola 4 1-2 9 Smith I o~o 2 McLa11ghlin 1 2-2 4 Symonette I 0-0 2 DeGregory 2 0-0 4 -- 33 :23-29 89 KINGS POINT 69 King's Point FG FT TP Seals 4 7-9 15 Eusepi I 1-3 3 Carpenter J 0-0 2 Litka 4 3-4 II Ennis, Mike 8 1-4 17 Ennis. Ken 6 2-8 14 Cronin I 1-2 3 O'Gara I QcO 2 Hughes I 0-0 2 27 15-33 69 Students may drop a course without penalty o.e., receive a grade of W) during the first six wee)(s of the term. This means . that, if you Intend to withdraw from a cour.se, you must do· so by Friday, February 13th and you must have the approval of your advisor. Volleyball While everyone bas been ecstatic about our new hockey team and our ever-successful basketball team, a new team has been quietly making waves in the Schenectady area - the Union College Men•s Volleyball Club. The team started practicing in October and thirty--eight people showed up for the ftrst practiCe. Now they're. ci.own to about a· solid dozen. 1 he squad has played in two mini-tournaments and one regular match so far winter term. They won their first game ever at a Troy YMCA tourney. Then on January 24 they ·finished second in a five team field in an Albany tourney, 6-2, beating the strong Schenectady Y team one game out of two. One -of the reasons for their success was the volunteer coaching of alumnus Walter Thiessen (class of '42) whose time and knowledge greatly helped. improve the team. Volleyball is a sport of skilL.timing, jumping, and more skill. The spike is one of the most difficult motions in athletics to execte successfully. Dave Dickinson and Phil Stegeman are two who have the most talent and best spikes. Kevin Schary, Jed Kanner, and Kevin · Geary are all promising young player.s competing for the other two spiking positions. Jerry Spietel is the number one setter, · while Peter Sobol, Teddy Dunn, Mike Martin, and newcomer Tim, Minneci are all fighting for the other se.tter position. Dave Henry, Dave Hardman, Paul Burns, and the injured Jan Kostyun fill prominent positions on the bench. Unfortunately the club played against a strong Albany State team last Wednesday and met their demise. The team missing one of its starters had problems from the beginning as they could not ·handle or pass tlie baJCT11e·y have a rematcn wun them· next Thursday in Alumni Gym at 8:00. r l I. ~ It ~ l I f L f

: v .i .. ,. c • The· Black Student's Alliance Newspaper Vol. 4, No. 5 E\'ditorial Prer:o~ative In accepting the editorship, this writing should be regarded as a statement of tecognizati<m and thank you. To whom? Isidra S. Person '75 and Marilyn V. Becton '77, the previou.s editors of Perspective. I would like to give you two young ladies (who happen to be dear friends) credit · for being the best editors of · Perspective, in my opinion, since. I entered Union. Your poise, dedication, diligence and journalistic abilities have served to be my greatest inspiration for my first issue of Perspective. · Being a rookie at all this, 1 can h()nestly say that you have served as two good examples.' And with all the power at my disposal I will try to live up the expectations of an efficient, and reliable editor. which will put my name someday down as third in a series of great enriching literature.· Therefore, blunders will not exist within my behavioral repertoire in handling Perspective as the voice of the Black community at Union College; the true Black voice. A thank-you is also in order (especially to Memphis) for your confidence in me. Besides. building my ego, it breaks-down my uncertainty, doubts and fears that periodicaUy slip to the surface. Thank~you for being my friend even with this uncanny mannerism of mine. Finalizing, I would like to mention the names of certain people who have also given me inspiration for this issue by merely their \hello\ and \good-bye by their mere presence and with their love and concern: Jasper, Mary and Donna Chatman, Dijuanna Turk, Sadama Horns. Bruce Elliott, Deborah Billings and Leonard Lee. ~~ I would like to apologize for our publishing company to the readers of Perspective for the \rnix-n-mess\ in our last issue. And since apologies are in order, I would like to extend them to Dr. C. Graves, Prof. Calabria, and Prof. Pearce for missing the appointments we had scheduled on February 16, February 11, 197 6 ,;}.·· In· Memory of the Black Studies .Afro-American Studies}Movement of 1968 1976. More Relating • -· , R~ading is one of my favori~e whi~h are woven i':lto ~he present Under the supervision of the t B ·f k Sf d pasttmes as well as my mam curnculum of _!lOY mstltutwn_ serve Africana Studies and Research 0 . . Q( U f€5 outlet for a successful academic to define and identify the role of Center, the area of Black studies It's only a little pa;o;t 1965, and Union .still finds itself without an African-American Studies Department; the question being: Is there still a use for one as far as the Union College education is concerned. The answer to that question for me is yes. The only way in which such a program could be implemented is up for question, especially considering monies available, professional interest as well as student interest. Many American colleges, especially the public and larger private schools instituted African- American Studies Departments in the late sixties and the early seventie.s to • serve the needs of students, fa cuI tv. and importantlv the -external commumty. I believe that the need is still present. Not only is it still present, but I would say that in many instances, it is more necessary for a school such as Union than many of the other jnstitutions that raced (for car~er at .union. Th~s is why an ~l~cks in America; they give us an is still being established and whatever reason, all of which arttcle entitled \a Gnm Future fo mstght to ourselves -- we no defined, and students will certainly weren't sincere) to Black.. Stu.dies\ . by Anthony longer have to be ign~rant about , participate significantly in its develop an African-American Carter, ~ J~Urn~hst. student at ourselves. ~ven whtte students direction and development. Program at this school. F~rdha':fl Umverstty m New York could be~ef1t by such courses. Planned are as of research wntten m February Essence At Umon there would be no include many previous I y Magazme, caught my attenti.on. cont~oversy. ~nion College has ignored facets of Black existence The White Student A large percentage of Union College graduates rise to upper professional positions and are responsible for enormous amounts of money, facilities, and most important people. In a substantial number of examples, many of them are Rlack, Puerto Rican, Indian. etc. Under- standing the problem and the triumphs of so vast a number of employers appears essential to the mechanics of running large corporations. business and institution~ in general. 1 am ccrtai n that the white doctors. law_rer~ engineers, . publi~ Continued on Page C Black (and Puer~o . Rt~an) relattvely nothmg .to offer. as far as well as the contemporary Study Programs at mstttutwns as a Black Studtes curnculum. political, economic, and social throughout the east coast are in There are no ~ore th~n 4 c~urses policies that shape the life of the trouble: Ther.e appears to be a here at Umo~ wht~h fit the Black community. Tbe Africana phase-out mtent for such cat~~ory. <?ne m .soc10log~ and Center also wishes to encourage pr?g.rams :an~ .depa~tlll:ents P?hucal sctence wtth two m the creative artists searching for a wtthm. our mstttuttons of htghet h1st~ department. Oh ye~h, Black aesthetic and to help educatwn. . . . . there was ~ f reshm~n electtve de v e 1 0 p new rna t e ria 1 5 , The .~dm~?tstrattve r~asonmg (comprehe~stve educatiOn course) approaches. and personnel for for thts plot when questwned· ts offered spnng term when I was a teaching Black studies and Black lack of interest by students ··fmd freshman but it is no longer with children. reduced budgets. Therefore, the us. Have you noticed that these future of such curriculum is very courses are · Jam-packed each grim. time they are offered? So there is But \'hy'? All our li\\::- Black ~omo:thing more { 1 nit)n lack~ and ~tudents have learned about shoull build up hesides the I HEM. All our history course~ athletic department (sports). gave Us THEIR contributions Where do Black students go and outlook. Two years of U.S. from here? To Cornell? To Yale? History Was required with a To Albany State? How could anything as GREAT as this go down the dr:.~in'! \\'here\ the ~urrf\rt f(,r the continuation of such programs? The demand for educating OURSELVES is still here!! \Knowledge is a terrible thing to waste.\ Memorandum passing grade before I could get a Cornell University offers within diploma from high school. I know its Graduate Program in Social everything about THEM alld Science, an African and Afro- relatively little of \myself.\ You American Studies curriculum. see, there was no recognition of The objectives, concerns, interest Blacks during our years of formal and area of concentration by this education when the foundation ·of department, as described in its A listing of Graduate Programs of Area Studies in Afro-American Studies that are still in existence as of '1975. to 'the College Communi!y We. the staff of Perspedive, see B possible faculty openings at the education .and learning was being catalog: termination of this school year. Due to the Title IX Act (and equal established within our minds back The field offers a program American University Atlanta University Boston University Cornell University Howard University · representation), we would like to announce that we expect and.· there. leading to the degree of Master of demand that 4 Black individuals be interviewed and placed into these Ant.hony Carter says, .. Black Professional Studies. It is positions. At the present time the quota of faculty-placement has only ·Studies are effective when they primarily intended for students mcluded women. We now ask for the Black quota. ·,fully acknowledge, explain and interested in specializing in · Editor Gail Chatman & promote Black people's schofarly work- in some facet of , the Perspective staff contributions to the American the rapidly developing academic . :::-= Q c = c::>QoC c c-= c QioQ C:: c = = c c ~ = c =-e c c \\society.\ I believe that courses area of Plack studies. ' ., - . Indiana State University Indiana University John Hopkins University Michigan State University Continued on Pa~e C

I am this few and the few at do 1 and me he bject is it actor l ation '·-t' .. .. ,91\ '' .• ' I , '·~ I ' I r f J\ I I l I ·! ' ' ,.,f. I; :j I ... .... l I ~j ·; t .. c The Black Student's Alliance Newspaper Vol. 4, No.5 \ E 1 ditorial Prero{.!,ative In accepting the editorship, this writing should be regarded as a statement of recognization and thank you. To whom? I sidra S. Person '75 and Marilyn V. Becton '77, the previous editors of Perspective. I would like to give you two young ladies (who happen to be dear friends) credit for being the best editors of Perspective, in my opinion, since I entered Union. Your poise, dedication, diligence and journalistic abilities have served to be my greatest inspiration for my first issue of Perspective. Being a rookie at all this, I can honestly say that you have served as two good examples. And with all the power at my disposal I will try to live up the expectations of an efficient, and reliable editor, which will put my name someday down as third in a series of great enriching literature. Therefore, blunders will not exist within my behavioral repertoire in handling Perspective as the voice of the Black community at Union College~ the true Black voice. A thank-you is also in order (especially to Memphis) for your confidence m me. Besides building my ego, it breaks-down my uncertainty. doubts and fears that periodically slip to the surface. Thank--.you for being my friend even with this uncanny mannerism of mine. Finalizing. I would like to mention the names of certain people who have also given me inspiration for this issue by merely their \hello\ and \good-bye. by their mere presence and with their love and concern: Jasper. Mary and Donna Chatman. Dijuanna Turk. Sadama Horns. Bruce Elliott, Deborah Billings and Leonard Lee. ..-.,._/~ I would like to apologize for our publishing company to the readers of Perspective for the \mix-n-mess\ in our last issue. And since apologies are in order, I would like to extend them to Dr. C. Graves, Prof. Calabria, and Prof. Pearce for missing the appointments we had scheduled on February 16, February 11, 1976 In Memory of the Black Studies Afro-American Studies}Movement of 1968 1976. More Relating • · Readmg is one of my favorite whi~h arc woven into !he present. Cndcr the supcn isi 0 n of the t Bl k St d pastimes as well as my mam curnculum of any mstltutwn. sene Africana Studies and Research 0 ac u leS outlet for a successful academic to define and identify the role of Center. the area of Rlack studies It's only a little past 1965, and Union still finds itself without an African-American Studies Department; the question being: Is there still a use for one as far as the Union College education is concerned. The answer to that question for me is yes. The only way in which such a program could be implemented is up for question. especially considering monies available, professional interest as well as student interest. Many American colleges. especially the public and larger private schools instituted African- American Studies Departments in the late sixties and the early seventie_s to serve the needs of students. fa c u 1 t \'. and impnrlanth the ·ext ern a I commumty. I hclll'\C that lhc need 1s still rre-;ent. '\nt onh ,., it ~till presenL but I \IOUld ~a) that in many instances. it is more necessary for a school such as Union than many of the other institutions that raced (f 0 r career at Union. This is why an Blacks in America; they give us an is still beinu established and whatever reason. all of which article entitled \a Grim Future fo insight to ourselves we no defined. an°d ~tudcnts will certainly weren't sincere) to Black. Studies\ by Anthony longer have to be ignorant about , participate significant!\ in its develop an African-American Carter, a journalist student at ourselves. Even white students direction and development. Program at this school. Fordham University in ;-.;ew York could benefit by such courses. Planned a rea s of research written in February Essence At Cnion there would he no include many previously The White Student A large percentage of Union College graduates rise to upper professional positions and are responsible for enormous amounts of money. facilities, and most important people. In a substantial number of examples. many of them are Black. Puerto Rican. Indian. etc. Cnder- >tanding the problem and the triumph., of ~o \·a~t a number of em pin\ er' appear., co,sentia l t(l ,·.,rp<>r.,ll••ll.,. ht.,llle'' ;, r. d in,littJti<'lh in !!L'm·•~d l·ert.1in that the \\hitc law:-:er..::.:_ engineer~. Continued on Page C II': J,lCtOf>, public. Maganne, caught my attention. controversy. ~nion College has ignored facets of Black existence , Black (and Puer~o . R1~an) relatively noth,mg to offer as far a~ well a~ the contempomry Study Programs at m~t1tut10ns as a Black Studies curnculum. political. economic. and social throughout the east coast are m !hem arc no more than 4 courses policies that shap~ the life of the trouble_. I here appears to be a here at Union which fit the Black community. l he Africana pha~e-out mtent for such category. One in sociology and Center also \\ishes to encourage programs .and depa~tments political science with two in the creative artists searching for a wtthm. our mst1tut10hs of higher hist~y department. Oh yeah. Black ae~thetic and to help edu~at10n. . . . . there was a freshman elective de\ clop nev. materials. I he admm1strat1ve reasonmg (comprehensive education course) approaches. and personnel for fur th1s \plot\\ v.hen questiOned ~~ offered spring term when I was a teaching Black studies and Black lack of intere~t by students ·and freshman hut it is no longer with ,hildren. How could anything as reduced budgets. rhercfore. the us. Have vou noticed that these t: future of such curriculum is very courses are. pm packed each grim. time they are nffered'' So there i~ But '.\1!\.' ,\J! ,.,;r :; \'' BI.Jcl-. \'n~L·:i .. I.!.: ;;,,·rl' t·~., ··· 1 .!d, .::H~ ~tudenb ha\e k<tmcd ahout ~houlJ. budd up ~'~>IUe' the IIIL:\1. :\11 <~tir iu~ldn cout>>:: •. !:hlet!l 1kra::rrenl ''PPfl') tdU :\ J a~ this !!'' dP\1 n the ,];.till.' \\'nctc·\ il.c '·IIPJ'<'I( I••· ''·\· (l1!1tilll1,!1!0n 1•! 'Ul'h pH•~I.lllh 1 gave u~ Ill U R contnbutions Where Jo Hlacl-. ~tudcnb go and outlook. Two years of U.S. from here'! To Cornell? To Yale? History was required with a To Albany State'? l h<.: J<:ni,tnd it•! _Jt,(.t\111~ OCRSEL\'ES ~~ ~till hcrl·!! \Knowledge is a terrible thing to waste.'\ Memorandum passing grade before I could get a Cornell University offers within diploma from high school. 1 know its Graduate Program in Social everything about THEM and Science, an African and Afro- relatively little of \myself.\ You American Studies curriculum. see, there was no recognition of The objectives, concerns, interest Blacks during our years of formal and area of concentration by this education when the foundation of department, as described in its A listing of Graduate Programs of Area Studies in Afro-American Studies that are still in existence as of \!975. to ·the College Community We. the staff of Perspective, see 8 possible faculty openings at the education and learning was being catalog: termination of this school year. Due to the Title IX Act (and equal established within our minds back The field offers a program American University Atlanta University Boston University Cornell University Howard University representation). we would like to announce that we expect and there. leading to the degree of Master of demand that 4 Black individuals be interviewed and placed into these Anthony Carter says, \Black Professional Studies. It is positions. A.t the present time the quota of faculty-placement has only Studies are effective when they primarily intended for students included women. We now ask for the Black quota. .fully acknowledge, explain and interested in specializing in Editor Gail Chatman & promote Black people's scholarly work--- in some facet of . the Perspective staff contributions to the American the rapidly developing academic ~ =-c ::-o c c = = ... society.\ I believe that courses area of Black studies. \' Indiana State University Indiana University John Hopkins University Michigan State University Continued on Pa~e C

·. ,. ' ' PERSPECTIVE, 'Wednesday, Feb.ruary 11, 19'76 fageB WHO WEARE? Eth_nic Studies ~A Personal View). By JERRY LEE early American history ls Bobb-y.. W~ight, ''The necessary in order to be aware of Psychopathic Racial Personality.\ Perspective Staff Editor-in-chief ••••••e••••••••••e••••••••,••o• .. •••••••eGail Chatman Photography Editor ..................... ,. .............. Bill Collins · Bobby Davis Writers ••. ,. .............. Sadama Roms, Jerry Lee, Donnell Underwood, Marilyn Becton, Kevin Moore, Phyllis James, Ana Logy Recognizations .......... Jet Magazine, Essence Magazine, Cornell Graduate catalog, the Black Students' Alliance members, the Black nation of America, and the Journal of Black Poetry Honorable Recognization ...... The B.S.A. Co•cbairmen, Horace Thompson, Debs Billing · Haven't· Seen a Dollar Recently During my pursuit of an tile extremes to which the wodd A paper obtainable from Garfield advanced degree in Ethnic (Black) economic system will go to Park Mental Health Center, studies, I occasionally acted in the achieve economic .growth. The Chicago, Hlinois.) capacity of instructor. At this extremes will produce undesirable If Blacks had a better time, the . outstanding traits in poor peop\!e of any understanding of World history ·characteristic of most students country. (The Rome Club's and the role of Africans and was (is) their ignorance about Publication, \The Limits to Afro-Americans their chances of . (Black) Afro-American Studies. Growth.\) survival on. a reasonable plane Most students get ethnic The racism in . America would increase, A real world view history through \World\ history manifests itself in social of history, politics, and economics which is generally European degradation of Blacks by whites. is necessary in order to history. This exclusion of African Blacks generally try to negate understand why )\fricans and history allows America to their culture by adopting Euro- Biacks are in their situation perpe~uate the myth that Africans American culture in the hopes of today. (Melinowski, \The have n? history. The perpetuation avoiding further degradation. Colonial Situation.\) of th1s myth has pr.Cilduced Historical brainwashing Students must understand that Here it is, a year ago today, I was faced with the same dilemma. It was Morna's birthday and I haven't gotten her a thing, not even a card. Ame~ic~n Bla~ks who are at tim~s (propaganda-} has always been an history is a toal and the way it is fra t~l~lda I Ill . natu-re. This effective means of social control. written will shape soCiety;s frat.nc1dal effect 18 prod~ced by a Blacks denied a knowledge of outlook. It is said that \if you var~ety of factors. I believe thr~e 'their true role in history, have a love your country, then love it . maJ~r factt?rs are e~onomlc constant sense of inadequacy and enough to know the truth about ot lOothpaste. I'll buy some next s~rvlva~. social degr~datton,. and the absence of Black role models it!\ I.n o.rder to have the t:ruth, week, if 1 can! hlston~al\ . bralll:washm.g. produces Blacks who are totally in depth study ·of ethnic history is I don't even have a social life. I (Fann?,n s Black Sktns, Whtte alienated from American society. a must. can't afford to go to any movies, Mask. ) . . Althougfi there is some vatidtty to to a show, a concert, or to a play' An understandmg of the the idea of non-participation in * * * * * * * . ~i~ I'm a fu~ti~ utiru~k~e~c~o•n~o~m~i~c~ro~l~e~B~~ac~k•s~p~·~~~y~~~~~~y~o~u~r~·~o~w~n~·~e~x~p~fu~l~~~t~~~n~.~~(~D~r~,-·~--~~~-H••m~~~ undergraduate student at Union ' .· . College. I can't use alcoholic A L •fl[ lilT lilT • • beverages or drugs or marijuana ·. l · . e 1 f.l ore on 1 fllnOrl Recruitment With all the up and downs we've had, I still love her. I truly love her. And it hurts me to my heart that I can not afford to call her to say \Happy 60th Birthday\ because last month's collect-calls made a well rounded figure of $69 . which included a balance- forward. Everyone knows that having a telephone is a luxury, anyway. . to escape the tragedy of this reality for psychological comfort Now, I'm in a bad way; depressed, upset and heart broken. For the life of me, I can not understand why I feel so guilty, so down, because my mother knows that due to my economic status. it's all an impossible dream. Everyday I look at the mail for a ten thousand dollar check addressed to me so that all my troubles will be over. I thought of work, a full-time job and dropping out of school to solve my money problem but I became uneasy at the thought. Prostitution. drug pushing and hustling crossed my mind but my courage, pride, and stanqards wouldn't allow me. All other consequences seemed unimportant. Before inflation and the decline of the Nixon Empire, finances for survival was a problem. Do you know what it's like·to worry how long you are going to eat next week? Where is the money for my textbooks and supplies this term? I need some boots for the .. terrible\ winter o( Schenectady! These shoes\ are in such poor condition and I must wear them each day because l have no others! I've been wearing the same pair of jeans since I graduated from high school! (Only a small over .statement). This one coat won't make it through the winter. I just ran out because money is none. To top it all, just to make matters worse, l caught a serious cold. I became weak. .and had a disturbing cough. Naturally, I crawled down to the infirmary. After the usual routine, I was given ASA, cough syrup and told to get plenty of rest (finals here) and stock up on juices (liquids). With this 1 exorted. myself to my room where l continued to suffer for 72 hours. I could not go to A&P or P&C for those juices to combat my illness unless I committed petty theft. Solutions??? I had to quit that \below-the-minimum-wage\ Col• lege Work Study job because it interfered with my studies, plus I got sick. The last thing I wanted to do is fail. I couldn't be kicked out of school for not meeting the standards. I must and I will graduate from this white-man's school! It's a fact(?) that you have the better educational system. I want a good education, too! I want to succeed! I don't want to kill my DREAM. Maybe I have a chance to go to graduate school. The M. L. King and Winter- berger loans must be paid back. Go to my non-existing checking or savings account. Hal! Ha!! Go beg Mr. Maras for an increase in my Union College or NDSL. Blacks have pride, too! Do you know the likelihood of such a scene? No! I don't want your sympathy! We want no charity! We want a resolution or solution~ When does this circle' end? I would rather LIVE than just EXIST. In interviewing Dr. Huntley about minority recruitment, he had little to offer to the recruitment of minorities separately from regular admissions. He states that ethnic or racial influences should be avoided in admissions policy. (He was Chairman of the Admissions Committee and Dean of the College at one time.) The interpretation of the reasons for low minority admissions by Dr. Huntley points ·to the socioeconomic factors which are unimpressable. The ; cost of Union appears too steep. He suggested (urban) minorities to attend a junior college before tacklin,g Union. \It all comes back to dollars and cents,\ be expresses • when questioned about increasing minorities at Union. From my discussion with Prof. · Huntley I would say that a nation-wide trend (with Union supporting it 100%), resolution or proposal should be implemented somehow to the poor system or condition (education) of the management of income, expenditures, production, distribution and consumytion of wealth to solve minority admissions at rich Union College . My &uggestion to the _ Psychology Department is to \try it on for size.'' Some ·prominent Black. psychologist (even a psychiatrist) added to the staff would be a learning experiepce for the ENTiRE campus community. - rpJ_e TJentl·ty Crl·s,·s ..... - ... ----~ 1 fl .l.U~ ...... ~ ... FREE Subseriptions_ to Perspective I ' During the past six months, the majority of the Black student body seems to have managed to disappear. The French call this process \assimilade while the British favored the term \indirect rule.\ The French believed that in order for the indigenous Africans to be civilized and capable of ruling themselves, assimilation of the French culture was necessary. The average American Black on this campus lencJ.s testimonial to the ingenuity of the French, and. by proxy Euro-Americans. Euro-Americans have adopted the French colonial policy, and that of the British (\Indirect Rule\). lndir.ect rule is accomplished through a variety of , ways. The key element in this ''rule' is the indigenous assimilation of the values and mores of the economic system in question. This generally leads to the indigenous national having an economic stake in maintaining the economic status quo of the colonial government. When this economic stake is established (through value assimilation), the indigenous ethnicity and culture may beco~ blur~ed or be · eliminated due to two factors. One factor is the success of the assimilation and the other is the economic needs of colonialism. At Union College, the success of the assimilation process can hardly be denied. With exception of approximately ten regular ·~ Black student activists · there is little constructive energy employed in maintaining a sense of cultural identity at Union. Cultural identity is necessary in order to effect change of a positive nature. Assimilation o£. an alien culture encourages the elimination of the indigenous culture. This process places undergraduate Blacks (and graduates) into what has been termed the \crisis of the Negro intellectual.\ · Most Blacks who assimilate are not aware of the \crisis\ and generally exhibit erratic behavior. This erratic behavior manifests itself in a variety of ludicrous ways. An example of this ,erratic Continued on C for persons .wis·hing Per-spective mailed to their home O·r. place. of bu~iness. M·ail this clipping_ to· To all t~ wk~ are gifted with, inspired to, ·or skilled with any literary, journalist or poetle abiUty, please submit ! your doubh ... spaced,: typewritU!n, arlieles to Gail Chatman, Hidok room•20S Miss G~ V. Chatman Bo~- 0274 . . ; Union College . . . . . ' - Schenectady, N.Y. 12308 Subscriber: .,NAME'_· --------~---..---.---- .. •, ADDRESS __ ...:..-. ____ _ City-State-Zip ______ _ OWl .. I.R 11PEl l ~ ·~ <11>· \· . ., ;• I I· ,, . ,, > I. ~, \ ' I _1 1ll ·I \ ' I. ·' ., ' It \tf' # .· r-~ '. , ·r \ . l . I ·-~· ' ~1. i ' I .. , • !>.I I ...__ ~~ I 1 ',I\ fi. I ' ' ~ .. . ' ., .,.. : < 17. { 1~1 ~·

' ~ v ~· ~- . ., ;• I /· , I, ·' ,lf· 1. ,\ \ 11 l ,, /f . • oO ~· .. ,, j.~ ··,. ., . l .. . l ~. ' ! ~I.} ' • :t I ',I\ fii ' ' ~ \ .. , i.lf. I )lo·d ~· ·:,!!, • PageC PERSPECTIVE. Wednesday, February I L 19'16 · Frtim a Player's Perspective: After almost three· years of court litigation, the federal government recently approved a cash settlement of $37,000 for each survivor in a government- sponsored syphilis experiment involving Black males in Tus- kegee, Ala. For experiment parttctpants who did not contract the disease, the ou-t-o.f-cau.rt settlement provided for $15,000 to be paid ·each living participant and $5;000 to the families of those who have died. A settlement of $15,000 is also to he paid the heirs of deceased patien.ts. An order filed by U.S. Oistrict Court Judge Frank M. Johnson . Jr. in Mo·n-tgoznery, Ala., disclosed the U.S. attorney general's approval of the · settlement that apparently concludes a $l.8\billio.n class action suit filed in 1972 on behalf of the participants of the infamous syphilis study. O'id yQu know that ....... . For four years, a selected number of students at the University of Maryland have been paid $25/day to smoke marijuana for research purposes by the National Institute of Mental Health and the .. National Institute on Drugs. Dr. R. Stillman says, \Thus far they have shawn- that on simple tasks people don't · suffer much of a decrease in performance as you might think, even if they are pretty .stoned. But they do have trouble in more complicated tasks involving memory.\ To qualify one must have smoked at least 6 times in the previous year. OR Depo-Ptovera by the Upjohn Company has dispensed a three- month contraceptive that is recommended to women who cannot use other contraceptive method·s but must risk infertility. - - - - B.S.A. Basketball What did happen on January He drilled. the ·offensive plays and 12? That day was the beginning of defensive tactics. intramural basketball. The Black The next game was close until Student Alliance Team '\'lith its the second half when Captain long winning tradition was set to Leonard D. Lee broke the game play· the Faculty-Administration open. The B. S. A ... had its second Team. The B. S. A. won a closely victory. contested game with Keith Our succeeding game was a Jefferson leading all scores with heartbreaking loss to the Happy 17 points. Hoppers with 6'5\ starting center On the following Sunday, the Brian J. Smart and Edgar S. B. S. A. suffered a Duhart, we lacked height and disappointing loss to the .rebounding - a raw necessity! · Sweathogs. The game was marred The following day D.U. seemed with ferocious elbow~,flying knees, to have an obsession to play the and other offensive tactics. This B. S. A. (the game had previously was due to irresponsible officials. been cancelled). During the The B. S. A. with Gloria Jones (a course of the game, Bernard one of the referees was a member of the fraternity. The next day the captains of both tearns met with Bob Driscol, the coordinator of intramural basketball and Donne! E. Underwood, Assistant Director of Admissions (who was a witness to the battle). Neither team pursued the matter further. But Driscol stated that precautions will be taken, so that another fight between any two teams would not occur. Even though this is tht> Fl RST losing season for the B. S. A., WE shall always stay as ONE - win or lose or FIGHT!! member of the Athletic Carey was .given three technical *********** Committee) protested the game fouls, thus being ejected from the because of ignorant officials. game. Even with the bad calls of . Hey \Mr. Considerate,\ Can I make an appointment for my PRIVATE dancing lessons, soon, very soon? Oh yeah, we haven't had that \rap session\ yet! The suit· had sought $3 million from the federa'l government for each of the 625 Black male patticipants or their survivors. Grounds for the suit, according to court records, were that officials of the U.S. Public Healtll Service failed to administer penicillin to those with syphilis after medical researchers discovered in 1946 that the drug would cure the disease, Instead o.f writing Dear Abby, drop by Dean Smith'$ office. • Tuesday, January 18, the B. S. the referees, the game remained A. was upset by the West College close. Near the end of the game, Team. The game was dose until tempers flared and a fight the second half when the West occurred. The biased officials team had a tast break. The B. S. appeared to be fighting against A. was unable to come back, the B. S. A. instead of separating loosing 53-37. the two teams. Once things had Coach Stan B. O'Brien '74 settled down the officials declared _;.~~;;!~!:.;~.U. as the winners. NaturaHy,'¥1f¥.if. ... -¥-¥-¥1f1f¥ Signed Miss Missouri At lea:St 28 persuns died during the course of the study. Definition ~of Black There are ahnost as many definitions of Black as there are Black people - and I suppose everyone is entitled to one. One of the experiences . that Black people need most, beyond opportunity, is success. There is no question that Black people infrequently know about the opportunities that are supposedly open to them but it must become our responsi'bility to test these proclamations of equal opportunity. The most critical section of the search is not the search itself but that person's performance once an oppo.rtunity has been discovered. A dedicated, irrepressible effort on the part of Black people when positions worthy of such a.re opened, is essential. This effort in essence is a major key to the future of Continued from Page B opportunities for the following h . · -d.- g~nerattion of fBlacBkl pkeople. The ••• et OIC stu . leS Continued from Page A: s ereo ypes 0 ac s center behavior is the Boston NAACP relations men and around the prejudice that. Blacks director professing a profound women, are unworthy workers and in . . . . . educators. etc., that graduate general unworthy people. We, in bel~ef m the v~rtu~s of mtegratwn, from Union will run into the making our individual efforts to .w~!le the reahty ts Bosto~ Blacks same. if not large number of . . bemg beaten for attendmg the Bl k 1 I 1' · succeed, can for one, attack tnese \integrated\ school. It is like a ac peop e. n tvmg and ste~eotype~ a~d push towa:ds dear going into a 'den of angry working with minority people, thetr ehmmatt?n and by domg lions to debate the virtues of . having Some idea of their history, s':lch. re.move (m sol?e c~ses) !he brotherhood. The majority of the community economic structure, dtscnmmatory ?~rner:s tsola~mg American populace believes in the art .and culture would make Black~from posttw!ls of presttge. separate gut equal concept as relatiOn~ much smoother and A Black person IS not only an White schools are generally better·: pro?uct.wn than there would be Uncle Tom when he or she than Black schools. ordmanly .. betrays the efforts of Black people Now this author'is not a racist, T~e. W~tte Union Colfege whether ~hey be to ma~ch, escape but most Blacks on campus who admtmstratwn would be~· at au from pnson, or to not, but a are attempting to integrate . advantage because they would be nigger is ~lso .. U.ncle Tom\ \Yhen should associate (more on th~ ma~e .aware. of. the lifes'ty}es, he ·or . she iS granted an distinction later). It should be asptrattons, htstone~ and more. of .l()gportun~ty that many other pointed out that equity should be th~ Black population at Umon ~racks m~ght never have, and t~ey sought rather than equality .. presently, and hopefully, the s1~ on:thetr fat ass and do .nothtng Equity can be used to dictate mcreased number to come. ~tth ~t. A lack of eff«;>rt m these equai treatment. The American The .Black Members situations not ?nl~ r.emforces .the Black is the only ethnic group The Black members of the An Ana Logy Exclusive For approximately a year now I have given Perspective, and the Black population at Union College, (and the other part) my ·analogical services and I now am on leave of absence. During \my vacation\ I saw my first B.S.A. basketball game. This motivated me to write this exclusive on the game. The B.S.A. intramural basketball record: Win Lost faculty-administration Sweathogs Spanish inquisition West College all-stars On Sunday night January 18, even with our 32-34 lost to the Swei.J.thogs. Bill Collins managed to remain HOT throughout the high tension game. Merriam-Webster says, a Weasel is any of various small slender bloodthirsty flesh eating mammals related to minks. His face showed much glee from the observation of the B.S. A. fans. Unfairness is a word I have become better to know since coming to Union College. Jim and his partner who were the game officials controlled the game to everyone's disapproval-- that always happens when the B.S.A. plays a game, so that's the way it is. We can expect that! But nothing kills a failure but a good try. I went over to one of the game officials to discuss the matter, his breath sung melodies of ALCOHOL. Marilyn was standing next to me getting hit in the head with a ball. \Mr. Skid Row\ managed to cause a painful situation like this. The game continued. Due to my kindness I offered the other official my eyeglasses, so that both teams could get a fair shake. It was all in vain because I wear no glasses. In wrapping-up .this sports feature, I would like to give regards and special thanks to all the team members . .. .relating to Black studies much more accurate account ot their past and present African- American as well as offer us some avenue to take in the fullfillment of their dream of Black Americans. Educational psychologists have discovered and stated that one of the reasons for the inability of minority people to deal with the educational set-up here in America could be due to the fact that minorities cannot and will not identify with a racist. sexist, one-sided view of the world as o portrayed by the greatest posttton of the curriculum structure. For the Black employer of the institution it rneans, at least, a better understanding of their role and an opportunity to keep abreast of what may be the worfcl of Union College. It would seem fundamental that understanding of the problem that faces your fellow students and colleagues: along with the celebration of your accomplishments and the sharing of that celebration with others would make the meaning of education much more viable than the mere rhetoric often times exhibited by all American institutions, and particularly those concerned· with education. Donald .E. Underwood Ass't Dir. of Admissions WELCOME - Victor!!!! tendency to dtscnmt~~te a?amst willing to eliminate or submerge Union College community Blacks f.or those pos1t1ons m the h 1 ·s u·lt · · t tl AI · ·nappemng with Blacks outstde ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~ r. b . . c ure cons1s en y. ong would for the first time have a tUture, ut m general It makes with th h 1 f E . A · much more work f<>r any Black - e e ~ o uro- mencans h · ht \ 11 · · h they are ru. shmg down the road to w o mtg tO ow mto t at. · · ·- ·t· ( t d t · 1 d d) o mtegratwn. Blacks should be posi mn · s u en s me u e . . . . . Keep try'n to get over. sa~m~ shall w_e mtegrate, __ . asstmtlate or assoctate? Continued from.•- A To be continued. THE . BLACK TOP TEN COLLEGE Northwestern University Next: integrate, Assimilate or Ohio University Associate? ' BASKETBA-LL TEAMS § Princeton University The Logical Choice St. ate Universi!)' of N.Y. at r ~ ~--, c:0o ·Albany · ~\)· .. ~ Syracuse University .---D--.r-in_k_i_n_g--ca_n_b_e_h_a_z_a-rd--ou-s-to--. University of California your health, Mr. Dark-Glass . University of Cl,licago in the Dark Jackson State, Morgan State~ Southern University, Alcorn A&M, Grambling University, Norfolk State, Tennessee State University, Fisk University and ~~§ University of Wisconsin Yale University ·Mississippi Valley State ~~~~'-(?->~ \

Pa1.re D PERSPECTIVE, Wedn~sday, February 11, 1976 No Second Chances Poets at Work BEWARE: Well, brother- It's like this ... I came to you. I asked for your help. You said, \Don't tell your mama.\ Dedicated to the Men We Love To the women who .will do anything to hold on; To the women who are jealous; All you could say was don't tell mama. I couldn't take it alone. You see- Mama could see it in my face. Her baby was in trouble. She could tell. She knew. I admitted it. She offered her help. You didn't. She offered advice. You didn't. She offered three hundred dollars. You didn't offer a damn thing. After all J had an A average Acceptance to an ivy league school A future ... A semi-man ... A dream destroyed What else was there? Yeah man. Mama had been there before. She loved ... She lost ... She suffered She took me to the hospital. The antisceptic smell ... The injections sleep ........ peace . 15 minutes ... It was gone! No pain! Once again a future, dreams All had been regained. Really? No. Pain ... intense ... bodily.,. mental Death - come. Death ... come. PLEASE??? But death didn't come. Realization did. You see my man, I suffered. You did too. I lost. You did too. You destroyed. I felt the pain. But see my man,J have hope. I'll have sons. MY MAN my man makes me feel & lets me know that i'm something real. wheH i lay next to my man he makes me realize that we don't have time to sue& jive playing the man's games/ · 'cause there 1 s too much' of the business of the nation to deal with on our hands. when my black man wraps his arms 'round me it make tne know that i don't have to readmadamoselle or even catch up with revlon's latestbeautyhints. when my man comes in&out of me my whole world expands. when my man plants his seed in the warmth of my body I know he is the Creator the God; as all Black Men are. when my man looks at me i know i'mhim&himme. i love my man. nia na itnani King George, When are we going .to have our serious talk? But keep in mind that money can buy anything, if the price is right - even ME. SMILE A SPECIAL citation to Mr. B. Elliott FORM. Black man magician man mv man ev\erything you do is magic. the rise and easy fall of your chest in sleep is a spell I was made painfully aware of what you are. And you? You've been made painfully aware of what I am. A woman! No long€'r yours. that warms my body in slow waves the strength aHd darkness of vour eves watching-and seeing me small beside you You wish that you'd reacted differently? You didn't. You blew. You're hurt? You're jealous? Of what? Me'? Ha! Yeah man, I can dig it. Cau you? No second chances my man. We're through. Can you dig THAT my man? This one is MINE. Not yours. Not ours ... but mine .. He's black. He's beautiful. He's loved. He's loves baby. He'll live. Yes my man. He'll live. Without You. by Utamu UNTITLED I don't know whv I care for vou. could you please. explain. - I don't know whv I love vou. But I feel that my love is.in vain. I know that vou care for another, but that has~'t' stopped my heart could you help me get over you. because it is tearing me apart. I have thought over all the alternatives. but you view them as unreasonable, Well why don't you think up some, · And then I'll perceive them as undeemable II. WISE ONE Love-jQint. licking. seeks the flesh warmth and light the day and night of you yr. progress thru love's seasons sweet and nasty. Love is a teaching and a wisdom & a woman a vast shoreline. My head is/ a bone cup of uncarved ebony. drink the rough wine, the cane; & brown sugar the bitter and sweet spices. & s'ee my thoughts: a dance in the sun. nebulae spinning 'Pill in!! out the clouds. the .ieweled eyes keeping yr. image. h~ng grasses & ~ilence. what I understand of you. I have practiced these meditations. what you see is true: i find that in the sear.ch for myself, I have no depth. The . emptiness of my existence cannot be revealed. Without love, life has no knowledge of time or space. Without love, we all are emotionless beings. TOO LATE you won't let him he a man no- when he wants to take you in his arms you speak about a job and when he tells vou that his thing is together you say nigger you is jive did you ever think of trying tenderness did you ever realize that he could be for both of you. or did you· doubt his capacity hard and cold and mean enough to protect you/ provide for you/ satisfy you like a man does. your mind won't let him be a man what is your image of him how does he look to you are vou looking at him through a set of alien values and labelling him like the man i mean the boy is a charm that i hold in my mind against evil days. Black man beautiful man mv man ev.erything you do · is mag1c. PEARL C. LOMAX and when you want him 'need him to do like a man does and take you in his arms he'll be gone. right sisters the nigger will be ~one dig it, like when \' you dial that number and it rings 7 times 8 times 9 times the nigger is gone like if you wake up to an empty pillow you know. and you hope he just went to work no, the nigger is gone i mean gone. gone. gone. not gone like gone to the store and gone to the show not even gone like gone for a day or gone for a week but gone like gone away like gone forever like G-0-N-E gone. you know what i mean now he·~ gone? the nigger is gone the nigger will he gone he'll be gone he'll be gone- you are glory i mean like spiro and tricky dick JULIANNE MALVEAUX & jubilee in yr. own self &. in love. it is you who a:re the wise one. SUT-NAHSI yeah like they do as shiftless/ lazy I worthles_s why can't you let him be a man like he is because if he ain't a man then how can you be a woman To the women who are getting ieft-overs; To the women who are stiU hanging on; If you can't hold on to HIM. then you don't need HIM! JUST FOR YOU What is aH obsession? You are my obsession! · I think about you constantly. I try not to, but you are constantly part of my thoughts. I have tried to forget about you, but my efforts are in vain) Just to see you brings joy to my heart. Just to see you, awakens th€ spectrum .of my being. Just to see you makes my day complete. Just to see you, cements the essence of my being! The need to possess you grows stronger everyday. The need to own you is my constant desire. But l realize that my desires would only stifle the you whom I Jove ever so deeply. So I am resigned to my despicable FATE. But I will eventually get over you, But will eventually ever come? Love Is .... Love is giving one's enUre being to another .someone Exploring his mind Exploring his body Exploring him Love is black, love is thick, love is a bitch Love is kissing him, thinking him, talking to him, sleeping with him crying because of him, knowing him Love is being uncertain and certain happy and sad Love is making excuses-accepting excuses Love is man, black man, strong black man Love is a friend,'an enemy Love is me, love is you Love is me loving you loving me Love is life. Love is real. Love is death. Love is a.Iive. Love is mine. Love is yours. Love is ours. Love is hurt. Love is pain. Love is never seeing him again. Love is letting .go. Love is hope. Love is strength. Love is an escape from reality. Deception, illusion Love ,js an undefinable maybe. By Utamu Mary Jane is there a plant shortage in your garden? UNTITLED My thoughts of you are with the gray sky And wet city pavement My thoughts of you are with the thruway dusk And passing headlights . The lights go by I go back to our room I go back to our dreams The lights go by My thoughts of you are with the bare bus stop My thoughts of you are with the tired faces I see them and l see you But they are here and where are you? The lights go by I go back to the laughing nights I go back to the still silences The lights go by My thoughts of you are with the passing trees In the dark. My thoughts of you are with never ending road The nights go by. the lights go by What have you been into lately, Bessey? Remember the times you made love to me even before brushing your teeth? You looked at me and wanted me. Rubbed lotion on my legs and around my legs all up in my please remember before i too forget. SANDRA WHITEURS Thanks Jim for the ice cream; Special thanks for the 35 cents. The Journal of Black Poetry (summer of '72) 'There's a peculiar odor stemming from one of the bathrooms in Hickok; someone HASN'T been toilet trained. It's a HEAVY scene. ., ! , I <~ 'I, ,,, ·'

Pa~e D PERSPECTIVE, Wednesday, February 11, 1976 No Second Chances Poets at Work BEWARE: Well, brother· It's like this ... I came to you. I asked for your help. You said, \Don't tell your mama.\ Dedicated to the Men We Love To the women who .will do anything to hold on; To the women who are jealous; All you could say was don't tell mama. I couldn't take it alone. You see- Mama could see it in my fact'. Her baby was in trouble. She could tell. She knew. I admitted it. She offered her help. You didn't. She t>ffered advice. You didn't. She offered three hundt·ed dollars. You didn't offer a damn thing. After all I had an A average AccPptance to an ivy league school A futUI'e ... A semi·man ... A dream destroyed What else was there'' Yeah man. Mama had been there before. She loved ... She lost... She suffe.red She took me to the hospital. The antisceptic smell ... The injections sleep ........ peace . 15 minutes ... It was gone! No pain! Once again a future, dreams All had been regained. Really'? No. Pain ... inteme ... bodily ... mental Death- come. Death ... come. PLEASE\?'?'! But death didn't come. Realization did. You see my man, I suffered. You did too. I lost. You did too. You destroyed. I felt the pain. But see my man, I have hope. I'll have sons. MY MAN mv man makes me feel & lets me know that i'm something real. when i lav next to mv man he makes me realize that we d.on't have time to suc&jive playing the man's games/ 'cause there's too much of the business of the nation to deal with on our hands. when my hlack man wraps his arms 'round me it make me know that i don't have to readmadamoselle or even catch up with revlon's latestbeautyhints. when my man comes in&out of rne my whole world expands. when my man plants his seed in the warmth of my body I know he is the Creator the God: as all Black Men are. when my man looks at me i know i'mhim&himme. i Jove my man. nia na imani King Gearge, When are we going to have our serious talk? But keep in mind that money can buy anything, if the price is right - even ME. SMILE A SPECIAL citation to Mr. B. Elliott FORM. Black man magician man my man everything you do is magic. the rise and easy fall of your chest in sleep is a spell I was made painfully aware of what you are. And you'' You 'v!' been made painfully aware of what I am. A woman! that warms my body in slow wave-. No longer yours. You wish that you'd reacted differently'.' You didn't. You blew. You're hurt? You're jealous'.' Of what'.' l\le'.' Ha! Yeah man, I can dig it. Cao you'.' No second chances my man. We're through. Can you dig THAT my man\ This one b MINE. Not yours. Not ours ... but mine. H;>s black. He's beautiful. Hr.> 's loved. HI' 's loves bab~. He'llliv('. Yes my man. He'llliv('. Without You. UNTITLED I dt)n't know why I care for you. could \ou plea\e explain I dnn't knm\ wh\' I love vou. Rut I feel that mY love j, in vain. I knm\ that \'OU care for another. hut that hasn't stopped my heart cnu!d you help me get owr YOU. because it i<> tearing me apart. I ha\c thought over all the alternatives, hut vou view them as unreasonable. Weli why don't you think up some. · And then I'll perceive them as undeemahk II. WISE ONE l.ove-ioint. licking, \ec k\ the flesh warmth and light the day and night of you ~T. progress thru Jm·e's seasons sweet and nasty. I.ove is a teaching and a wisdom & a woman a vast shoreline. \h head is a hone cup of uncaned ebony. drink the rnu!!h wine. the cane. & hrown SU,!o!ar the httter and sweet spices. & <ee m~ thoughts: a dance in the sun. nebulae spinning ,,,IJin~ nut the clnlllh. the in\elcd e\e\ · . c.Tlll!c \ 1 r,,tl't' ;.,11)! !!'a'\'' 8. -..J!L'Ihl\. 'dlat !IIHler-..tanJ ot ~ou. I have practiced these meditations. what you see is true: i find that in the search for myself. I have no depth. The emptiness of my existence cannot be revealed. Without love, life has no knowledge of time or space. Without love, we all are emotionless beings. TOO LATE \OU \\nn't let him he a man no when he want~ to take you in hi'> arm:- you '>peak ahout a inh and when he telb \·ou that his thing i-. together you say nigger you ts pve did you ever think of trying tenderness did you ever reali1e that he could he for hoth of vou. or did \'Oll dou ht his capacity to protect you satisfy you like a man doe .... hard and cold and mean enough prm ide for you vour mind won't let him he a man \\hat i-. your image of him hm\ doe~ he look to you are \·nu lnokinc at him ll~: ')'I~ ll :1 \l't n! ;tlien '.aim·, ;.rod i.thelhn~ hnn like the man i mean the hoy the -.trength and darkness of vour eve-. . . \\atching and ~eeing me '-P1all beside \ ou i\ a charm that i hold in my mind again,t nil day:-.. Rlack man he a utiful rna n tn\' man e\er\'thinp: you do PEAR I C. lOMAX and when \11ll \\ant him need him t () d () like a man doe' and take ~ou in hi\ arm-; he'll he gone. right ,i,ter> the nigger will he ~one dig it. like when you dial that number and it rings 7 times R times 9 times the nigger is gone like if you wake up to an empty pillow \·ou know. and vou hope he just went to work no. the nigger is gone i mean gone. gone. gone. not gone like gone to the \tore and gone to the \how not even gone like gone for a day or gone for a week hut gone like gone awa~ like gone forever like G-0-:\f-F ,?nne, \<lll kno\\ \\hat i mean no\\ h .. ··, .12~1!1t:' t!ll' !lll',i.!t:r j, ~lli'L' tIlL' ·~1 '~'n '\ dl ~, •. ::•)tll' he 'II he )!One he'll he gone-~ you are glory i mean like spiro and tricky dick JULIANNE MALVEAUX &juhilee in yr. own self &. in love. it is vou who. are the wise one. SUT·NAHSI yeah like they do as shiftless lazy worthles_s whv can•t vou let him he · · a man like he is hecause if he ain't a man then how can you he a woman To the women who are getting left-overs; To the wGmcn who are still hanging on; If you can't hold on to HIM then you don't need HIM! JUST FOR YOU What is an obsession? You are my obsession! I think about you constantly. I try not to, but yoN are constantly part of my thoughts. I have tried to forget about you, but my efforts are in vain! Just to see you brings joy to my heart. Just to see you, awakens the spectrum of my being. Just to see you makes my day complete. Just to see you, cements the essence of my being! The need to possess you grows stronger everyday. The need to own vou is mv constant desire. Rut I reali1e that ~y desir~s would only stifle the you whom I love ever so deeply. So I am resigned to my despicable FATE. But I will eventually get over you, But will eventually ever come? Love Is ••• Love is giving one's entire being to another someone Exploring his mind Exploring his body Exploring him Love 1S black, love is thick, Jove is a bitch Love is kissing him, thinking him, talking to him, sleeping with him crying because of him, knowing him Love is being uncertain and certain happy and sad Love is making excuses-accepting excuses Love is man, black man. ,trong black man Love is a friend, an enemy Love is me, love is you Love is me loving you loving me LovE' is life. Love is real. Love is death. Love is alive. Love ts mine. Love is yours. Love is ours. Love is hurt. Love is pain. Love is never seeing him again. Lov<' is letting go. Love is hope. Love i~ :<t1·ength. Love is an escape from reality. Deception, tllusion LovP is an undefinable maybe. Mary Jane is there a plant shortage in your garden? UNTITLED Vly thoughts of you are with the gray sky And wet city pavement Vly thoughts of you are with the thruway dusk And passing headlights The lights go hy I go hack to our room I go hack to our dreams The lights go hy :Yiy thoughts of you are with the bare bus stop My thoughts of you are with the tired faces I see them and I see you Rut they are here and where are you? The lights !!O hy I go back to the laughing nights I go hack to the still silences The lights go hy My thoughts of you are with the passing trees In the dark. My thoup:ht' of you are with never ending road The nights go hy. the lights go hy '--\-\'_h_a_t __ h_a_,_·e---v-n-•J---h-••n ;nto I Mel:. Hesse~'? Remember the time~ you made love to me even before brushing your teeth? You looked at me and wanted me. Ruhhed lotion on my legs and around my legs all up in my please remember hefore i too forget. SANDRA WHITEURS Thanks Jim for the ice cream; Special thanks for the 35 cents. The Journal of Black Poetry {summer of '72) There's a peculiar odor stemming from one of the bathrooms in Hickok; someone HASN'T been toilet trained. It's a HEAVY scene. I r~d~esda} \ ............ 'l '. I ep~rted· \()tiyities :ommiw L.inebad 1Ud~et t :arne as \either 1 ~ditor) c mpendi1 ma~nnaJ md self J.as ·pro v<~lua~ JOtnmoc 1eMe f1 fhank ) !OU'the · \in¢bac 'nough, lOO)' t ~'jn~bac Jl stu Jricritie ~1c ~an a ,__f,ded. no' f >rincipl m 'thet he •StU; l:ourse \unCis nistake t was IeJ-!:, s \lo,Jeth 1e corr :ntire s . 1\s 1 ~,·iing , · )cle~ '1iratles,' !own i :ray b: \k'''~. a .::.J::n,UIIlde I~ tid Jrade 6!>a·ie I tax. .hrougj 'lid: Ol JeCl;lUS• Jercen1 Jther ~ md d1 'evalw \· >~~heJ is !he p1 ~tades :.he,co nform ::ourse :va~ua ~rofes! sl:lortc• ls'Pod ' q l>t 'b~ J ·· n'!ltl'v I ~·\ '\'not ~ t eafn-. 101.1\ ht 1:~; ~~det l~dhi r,?u.rse . 1 ~~ 1 ho~l~ ~ d Ct '\ t ~ ur~~ ... ·:.

II the of at the 2. ·- 8:07: 9:08: 13:59: 10:27. 6. 12:32. High high Hi!!h Hi!!h 3:48: 13:48: icking. been has in the Union Club. in people ractiCe. a in two regular They at a on second Albany strong game their lunteer Walter time helped. ball is a is one in Phil the Kevin Kevin young other Jerry setter, · Dunn, Tim, for the Henry, rns, and fill bench. played State met missing could em· next at 8:00. • unton college one or Senate to study • • • • parttctpatton transcripts by DAVID MOSKOWITZ A stirred-up College Senate last week decided not to approve non- academic transcripts of students' extra-curricular activities until a subcommittee had studied the mechanics of the proposaL The Senate also turned down the Athletic Department's request for representation on the Ad:missions Committee and voted to ban smoking during all dasses next term. The Provost will soon select a subcommittee of students, faculty, and administration which will try to hammer out a wo..rkaole system of implementation for the participation transcript. This sub- committee has been given until spring term's second Senate meeting to present its recommendations. Smoking banned in classes \How do we differentiate between the joiners and the doers?\ Provost Willard Enteman pointed out that faculty shouldn't lose sight of the fact tha.t it was students who had brought up the proposal to begin with. Many felt that, since faculty guidance was looked up to by students, voting down participation transcripts would cripple the faculty advising system. \Using the faculty as authenticators of participation is healthy,\ said Dean Mark Smith. \The motion represents students' frustration at the faculty's reaction.\ Students at the Seriate Meeting .also objected to the faculty's unwillingness to make an effort to work out a system. \Faculty have an obligation beyond the classroom,\ said Matt Brief. \We have te establish this rapport.\ Still, most .of the systems for implementing the activities listing were objected to; it wiii be the newly-formed subcommittee's responsibility to come up with an acceptable community participation proposaL No Smoking In response to a motion by Student Forum President Brian Tucker, the Senate passed a motion that would.have forced all smokers in a classroom to stop when one class member requested it. Some faculty felt that some students might misuse the privilege, leading to the Continued on Page 8 Vol. 105, No. 15 Wednesday, February 18, 1976 • • tensts Monday's Town Meeting drew a sparse crowd of #0 students. The participation issue consumed much of the Senate's discussion, with most Faculty members vehemently objecting to their compulsory role in the process. The original proposal required each student's faculty adviser to fill out, each term, a record of the student's activities. Professor Joe Finkelstein, representing Division ll, called this requirement, \inordinate and unrealistic.\ He claimed that the Dean of Students' office should handle activities compilation, adding that an activities attachment to the official transcript would, in the long run, \muddy up\ the document and damage students. Town meeting draws 40 students by CLARENCE MORROW' TRAVIS IV The Town Meeting conducted by the Student Forum in the Alumni Gym on Monday night was attended by forty people. These people came to vote· on a proposed amendment to the constitution dealing with the election of a treasurer; A quorum was not attained; according to the Student Constitution, 10% of the student body must be present for a valid vote on amendments to the constitution to be taken. Still, the Calendar, Arts Symposium, and Personal Grievances of students were discussed. ' .. ·': 't ; ·-. vending machines was one of the proposed plans which the late Dr. Tolan and the Forum had made. A new electronic surveillance system to prevent the theft of beoks will also occur as a result of their work. Brian Tucker also announced additions of new magazines, with the emphasis on journals (budget permitting). Tucker listed other accomplishments of the Forum. These included renovation of the Bookstore, due to the acquisition of more storage facility for it in Carnegie Hall. He explained the work, dealing with financing of student activities, for instance the school possibly funding such organizations as Mountebanks and Glee Club. The problems of the housing lottery and NESCAC rules for post-season play of athletic teams are being studied by subcommittees of the Forum. Matt Brief explained the constitutional amendment he has proposed. If it is passed it will make the Treasurer, now a non- voting member of the Forum, an elected position. This person would be elected from the freshman or sophomore classes. He would serve as assistant chairman of the Tax Committee for his first years and then would . become chairman when the preceding one graduated. Matt Brief stated, .. This will give the Tax Committee chairman a chance to learn the ropes. This will hopefully prevent serious mistakes from occurring.\ Methods were discussed as to how. to get the amendment ratified, including a propaganda campaign carried out by WRUC. An extensive presentation was given on the pros and cons of the Continued on Page 8 While most faculty . members stated that they agreed with the community participation idea in spirit, they repeatedly pointed at the \cumbersomeness of the apparatus.\ On the other hand, faculty also saw flaws in any participation listing at all. Prof. William Daniels mentioned that' \itemizing\ activities wasn't necessary: \It wouldn't encourage more participation.\ Prof. Dwight Phaup of Division H said that the proposal wouldn't separate quality versus quantity in student's participation, adding, The Forum started the meeting by expressing regret that not enough people were in attendance for anything definite to be accomplished. Forum president Brian Tucker went on to list some of this year's accomplishments, stating, \I see this year's forum as a muckraking organization.\ Multi-leveled 'TeDipest' debuts DIRTY DAN DONNY Turning the microfilm room at th~ library into a lounge with After severe labor pains, the Nott Memorial has finally given birth this time to an astonisning set construction, the JOHNNY SCREAM!N SCOTT SIMON CHICO DENNY GREENE LENNIE JOCKO BOWZER TONY SANTINI Ladies and Gentlemen: SHAAA-NAAAbNAAA! is coming February 26. Tickets will be on sale for Union students and friends only, one week in advance, startin_g Monday. Feb 16. by WENDY SOLOVAY most complex in five years. The design for this masterpiece (in which 40,000 sq. feet of plywood was used) evolved after extremely careful thought. S.everal of the crew heads pored over the script of The Tempest until they were able to associate their impressions of tlw play with real things. What seeme'd to evoke great enthusiasm in all involved was the idea of ENCHANTMENT. This enchantment motif was not so much a magical sensation as it was an entrancing one. Just as it pervaded the play, so would it pervade the set. Thus, the new- born construction inside the Nott reveals three levels. The first level is the area for the residents of the island, the second houses the transients in the play, and the third provides a place for the transcendentals. As much a part of this enchanted island as any character in the play, though, is the audience, seated on the middle level where all levels can be viewed. Interaction therefore occurs on three levels s.o that {rap ;dt'lei)rs, ladders and poles have all been incorporated. In addition to this up-down movement, there is also the idea of circular movement (complete with a catwalk) which increases the activity and the enchantment. These structures present the audience with suspense in that they will not know where the next character will enter! The mastermind h~hind the design for the set, the light, the props and the costumes is none other than Prof. Charles Steckler. He has been greatly assisted by Prof. Barry K. Smith (Director); Andy Koblenz (Assistant designer); Phil Holbrook (tech. coordinat.or); Sue Frisch (costumer); Tom Newman and Pete Crames (lighting); Prof. Emory Waters (composer of original music); Dave Robinson and Dave Mulligan (sound). Much valuable help has also been given by Dawn Walworth (stage manager), Lee Bloomrosen (assistant director), the cast of The Tempest, and Charlie Steckler's Comp Ed class.

Page2 . . . · .. , - • '·. . .·_I ·• L' '; •• • ' • I • • • • • • ' • • • ' • • • . . . ' Bonner notes Mystic offers grad courses Ad01issions • Increase Mystic, Ct. - The Frank C. Munson Memorial Institute of American Maritime Studies will offer a series of graduate courses at Mystic Seaport, June 28 through August 6, according to an announcement by Dr. Benjamin W. Labaree, Director of the Institute. The courses include American Maritime History, American Maritime Art, American Luterature of the Sea and an interdisciplinary seminar called American Maritime Studies. Classes will be held at the G. W. Blunt White Library on the grounds of Mystic Seaport, and they are accredited by the University of Connecticut. American Maritime History will be taught jointly by Dr. Labaree, Ephraim Williams Professor of American History at Williams College, Williamstown, Mass., and Dr. Edward W. Sloan, Professor of American History at Trinity College, Hartford, Conn .. The history course will explore the development of American seaborne commerce emphasizing its relationship to the economic, social, political, naval ~nd diplomatic history of the Umted States. American Maritime Art, 1 to be taught by Dr. Ro~er B. Stein, Professor of Englis:_h at· the State University of ·New York at Bin11;hamton, will deal with the visual tradition of American seascape. Using slides and artifacts of Mystic Seaport's collections, the class will discuss Women on Security . Union College, like so many private institutions, has a staff of personnel whose job is to provide campus security. This staff is multidimensional. Forms include campus police, foot patrol, and information. While these titles convey a neutral gender, all but one of the security personnel at Union are men. · Since it has been more than adequately proven that women are as capable as men at handling these positions, it is worth knowing why Union continues to (a) hire mostly male students for :schedule for Art Symposium to be aired on WRUC at 7:30 p.m. starting Thursday, February 5. Feb. 19 l<'reund Feb. 24 Smith (Barry) foot patrol (currently, there is one woman foot patrolee); and (b) why .Union has not one woman campus policeman employed. The answers may be simple or may be very complex. To find out the true reasons behind these practices, attend a meeting on Thursday, Feb. 19th, at 12:30 pm in Strauss Lounge (in Carnegie Hall). Bring lunch and listen while guest speakers Mr. CHff Wood, head of Union Security, and M~. Beverly Hill, personnel director, disucss the what and why of Union Security. NOTE: Also to be discussed is the lack' of trained personnel in the area of Rape Prevention. SPONSORED BY THE WOMAN'S CAUCUS WR UC elections The Union College radio station, WRUC, will hold a general meeting of all stati_?n members to elect a new executive board on Monday, February 23rd. The meeting will take place at 7:30 pm in Social Sciences 016. Everyone interested in the future of Union radio is encouraged to attend, but only station mem~ers will be allowed to vote. The five- member executive board of W R U C consists of the General Manager, and President, Station Manager, Programming Director, Promotion Director, and Technical Director. Any station Pre-registration materials for spring term 1975-76 will be available at the Office of the Registrar, Room 2, Administration Building, beginning Monday, February 23rd. Students are urged to promptly secure their copy of these materials. Students who do not plan to return to Union for the spring term, except for graduating seniors, must immediately give notice of their plans to the Office of the Dean of Students. Students should confer with Faculty Advisers during the week of February 23-27. Some departments may announce special arrangements for advising. Please be alert for such announcements. Course requests are due at the Office of the Registrar not later than Monday, March lst. A TEN DOLLAR ($10.00) LATE FEE WILL BE ASSESSED THEREAFTER. member interested m being considered for any one of the positions . should contact the present General Manager of WRUC pr1or to the election to determine what the position entails, as outlined in the station's constitution. This is not absolutely necessary, however, as no nominations will be accepted prior to Monday's meeting. Appointments to all other station positions are made by the executive board during their regular weekly meetings. SENIORS VOTE Nominations for the Class of 1976 Representative to the Alumni Council have closed. On February 5th, ballots were sent via campus mail to all seniors. Those nominated are: Joel Buckberg, Cindy Wolfson, Paul Spence, John Glover, Judy Dein, and Paul . Barnard. All seniors are urged to vote. Vote for one person. All ballots must be signed. Ballots may be cast in person or by mail only at the Alumni Office, Lamont House. Ballots must be received no later than 4:30, Friday, February 27. The candidate receiving the most votes will be the representative, with the runner-up serving as alternate. Both persons will be invited to ali Alumni Council meetings starting this Spring. Subsequent elections will occur at each fifth year ~u!'ion, 18th and 19th century marine painting, figureheads, scrimshaw and other folkatts ·Of the sea. by DAVID MOSKOWITZ American Literature of the Sea wiU be taught by Dr. Thomas Philbrick, Professor of English at the University of Pittsburgh. The adopt·ion of the maritime experience as a theme in 19th centUI:y literature wiH be explored through the writings of James Fenim(i)re Cooper, Edgar Allan Poe, Richard Henry DaHa and Herman Melville. Graduate students, teachers, professionals and exceptional undergraduates who have completed at least their junior year may apply for the courses through the summer Sessions Office, University of Connecticut, Storrs, Ct. 06268. Deadline for application is May l Further information and applications for financial assistance may be obtained by writing to the Frank C. Munson Memorial Institute of American Marit,ime Studies, Box R, Mystic Seaport, Mystic, Ct. 06355. In remarks to the Coilege Senate last week, Union President Thomas Bonner, revealed the progress and plans of several college organizations. According to the President, admissions are running about 14 percent ahead of last year -- with the number of women applicants at the same level. The Departments of English and Arts showed major applicant increases, with several of the Humanities showing a decrease. The President also reported on the 'latest delay in the completion of the Dutch Hollow I Pub- Restaurant. According to College Center director Craig Carlson, the places opening day at about March 5 or 6, a:nd was caused by the lateness of equipment arrival. Bonner also announced plans to engage in a review of intercollegiate Athletic programs. \Our aim is excellence and balance,\ he stated, adding that involvement of the total student body (such as through intramurals) is the intended direction of UnioH's athletics. A proposal is being considered, according to Bonner, for a five- year Masters Program in Health Education between Union and the Albany College of Pharmacy. While Finance details still need to be worked out, the program \represents new possibilities for our students''. said Bonner. All students interested in being considered for the position of Resident Advisor in 1976-77 should fill out an application form in the Housing Of.fice before Wednesday, March 10. Early applications will be apppreciated. Late applica- tions for good reasons wm be accepted. Ask Procter & Gamble what you can -do. with your BA degree!- You could become the advertising/marketing manager for one of these P&G products! Although only 5 are shown here, Procter & Gamble makes more than 50 well-known, well-advertised consumer brands. For each brand, there is a small management group, usually just 3 people, totally responsible for planning, creating and supervising everything that is done to increase consumer acceptance of their brand. The group is headed by a Brand Manager, an important level of management in our company. Right now, we're looking for a few highly qualified college seniors with the potential to become Brand Managers. You would start at our Cincinnati headquarters as part of a brand group for a specific brand, perhaps one of those shown here. To help you learn quickly, your Brand Manager would give you challenging assignments of increasing responsibility in various key marketing areas such as TV advertising, package design, special promotions, budget planning and analysis; and market research. The emphasis would be on you, your ideas, your ability to contribute. You'll be promoted on the basis of merit alone. It's not uncommon to become a full Brand Manager within 3-4 years. Since you Will begin to manage from the day you join us, we're looking for \take charge\ people with outstanding records of leadership while in college. \Superior academic achievement\ - \innovative\, \a record of being able to get things done\ and \good oral and written communi- cations skills\ are some of the words we use to describe the people we want. If this kind of wo\\- interests you and you think you qualify, please sefld me your resume. Ms. Sandy Moersdorf The Procter & Gamble Co. Advertising Personnel P.O. Box 599- Dept. FM Cincinnati, Ohio 45201 An Equal Oppor.tunity Employer ..,., .... -.·· ; ·~ :~ • c '' )'c

Page2 Bonner notes Mystic offers grad courses Adn1issions e Increase Mystic, Ct. The Frank C. Munson Memorial Institute of American Maritime Studies will offer a series of graduate courses at Mystic Seaport, June zg through August 6, according to an announcement by Dr. Benjamin W. Labaree, Director of the Institute. The courses include American Maritime History. American Maritime Art, American Luterature of the Sea and an interdisciplinary seminar called American Maritime Studies. Classes will be held at the G. W. Blunt White Library on the grounds of Mystic Seaport, and they are accredited by the University of Connecticut. American Maritime History will be taught jointly by Dr. Labaree. Ephraim Williams Professor of American History at Williams College. Williamstown, Mass .. and Dr. Edward W. Sloan, Professor of American His tory at Trinity College, Hartford. Conn .. The history course will explore the development of American seabome commerce emphasi7ing its relationship to the economic. social. political. naval and diplomatic history of the United States. American Marittme Art, to be taught by Dr. Roger B. Stein, Professor of Engl·ish at the State University of New York at Binghamton, will deal with the visual tradition of American seascape. Using slides and artifacts of Mystic Seaport's collections. the class will discuss Women on Security Union College, like so many private institutions, has a staff of personnel whose job is to provide campus security. This staff is multidimensional. Forms include campus police, foot patrol, and information. While these titles convey a neutral gender, all but one of the security personnel at Union are men. Since it has been more than adequately proven that women are as capable as men at handling these positions, it is worth knowing why Union continues to (a) hire mostly male students for ~chedule for Art Symposium to be aired on WRUC at 7:30 p.m. starting Thursday, February 5. Feb. 19 .Freund Feb. 24 Smith (Barry) foot patrol (currently, there is one woman foot patrolee); and (b) why Union has not one woman campus policeman employed. The answers may be simple or may be very complex. To find out the true reasons behind these practices, attend a meeting on Thursday, Feb. 19th, at 12:30 pm in Strauss Lounge (in Carnegie Hall). Bring lunch and listen while guest speakers Mr. Cliff Wood, head of Union Security, and Ms. Beverly Hill, personnel director, disucss the what and why of Union Security. NOTE: Also to be discussed is the lack· of trained personnel in the area of Rape Prevention. SPONSORED BY THE WOMAN'S CAUCUS WR UC elections The Union College radio station, WRUC, will hold a general meeting of all station members to elect a new executive board on Monday, February 23rd. The meeting will take place at 7:30 pm in Social Sciences 016. Everyone interested in the future of Union radio is encouraged to attend, but only statwn members will be allowed to vote. The five- member executive board of WRUC consists of the General Manager, and President, Station Manager, Programming Director, Promotion 0 ire c tor, and Technical Director. Any station Pre-registration materials for spring term 1975-76 will be available at the Office of the Registrar, Room 2, Administration Building, beginning Monday, February 23rd. Students are urged to promptly secure their copy of these materials. Students who do not plan to return to Union for the spring term, except for graduating seniors, must immediately give notice of their plans to the Office of the Dean of Students. Students should confer with Faculty Advisers during the week of February 23-27. Some departments may announce special arrangements for advising. Please be alert for such announcements. Course requests are due at the Office of the Registrar not later than Monday, March lst. A TEN DOLLAR ($10.00) LATE FEE WILL BE ASSESSED THEREAFTER. member interested in being considered for any one of the positions should contact the present General Manager of WRUC pr.ior to the election to determine what the position entails, as outlined in the station's constitution. This is not absolutely necessary, however, as no nominations will be accepted prior to Monday's meeting. Appointments to all other station positions are made by the executive board during their regular weekly meetings. SENIORS VOTE Nominations for the Class of 1976 Representative to the Alumni Council have closed. On February 5th, ballots were sent via campus mail to all seniors. Those nominated are: Joel Buck berg, Cindy Wolfson, Paul Spence, John Glover, Judy Dein, and Paul Barnard. All seniors are urged to vote. Vote for one person. All ballots must be signed. Ballots may be cast in person or by mail only at the Alumni Office, Lamont House. Ballots must be received no later than 4:30, Friday, February 27. The candidate receiving the most votes will be the representative, with the runner-up serving as alternate. Both persons will be invited to all Alumni Council meetings shrting this Spring. Subsequent elections will occur at each fifth year reunion. I Rt h and 19th century marine painting. figureheads. scrimshaw and other folkarts of the sea. by DAVID MOSKOWITZ American Literature of the Sea will be taught by Dr. Thomas Philbrick. Profes:;or of English at the U niv~.:rsity of Pittsburgh. The adoption ol the maritime experience as a theme in 19th century literature will be explored through the writings of James Fenimore Cooper, Edgar Allan Poe, Richard Henry Dana and Herman Melville. Graduate students, teachers, professionals and exceptiona1 undergraduates who have completed at least their junior year may apply for the courses through the summer Sessions Office. UNiversity of Connecticut, Storrs, Ct. 0626H. Deadline for application is May I. Further information and applications for financial assistance may be obtained by writing to the Frank C. Munson Memorial Institute of American Maritime Studies, Box R, Mystic Seaport, Mystic, Ct. 06355. In remarks to the College Senate last week, Union President Thomas Bonner, revealed the progress and plans of several college organizations. According to the President. admtssi.ons are running about 14 percent ahead of last year with the number of women applicants at the same level. The Departments of English and Arts showed major applicant increases, with several of the H urnanities showing a decrease. The President also reported on the latest delay in the completion of the Dutch Hollow I Pub- Restaurant. According to Col'lege Center director Craig Carlson, the places opening day at about March 5 or 6, and was caused by the lateness of equipment arrival. Bonner also announced plans to engage in a review of in~ercollegiate Athletic programs. \Our aim Is excellence and balance.\ he stated, adding that involvement of the total student body ( sl!lch as through intramurals) is the intended direction of Union's athletics. A proposal is being considered. according to Bonner, for a five- year Masters Program in Health Education betweeN Union and the Albany College of Pharmacy. While Finance details still need to be worked owt, the program \represents new possibilities for our students\ said BoNner. All students interested in being considered for the position of Resident Advisor in 1976-77 should fill out an application form in the Housing Office before Wednesday, March 10. Early applications will be apppreciated. Late applica- tions for good reasons will be accepted. Ask Procter & Gamble what you can do with your BA degree! You could become the advertising/marketing manager for one of these P&G products! Although only 5 are shown here, Procter & Gamble makes more than 50 well-known, well-advertised consumer brands. For each brand, there is a small management group, usually just 3 people, totally responsible for planning, creating and supervising everything that is done to increase consumer acceptance of their brand. The group is headed by a Brand Manager, an important level of management in our company. Right now, we're looking for a few highly qualified college seniors with the potential to become Brand Managers. You would start at our Cincinnati headquarters as part of a brand group for a specific brand, perhaps one of those shown here. To help you learn quickly, your Brand Manager would give you challenging assignments of increasing responsibility in various key marketing areas such as TV advertising, package design, special promotions, budget planning and analysis, and market research. The emphasis would be on you, your ideas, your ability to contribute. You'll be promoted on the basis of merit alone. It's not uncommon to become a full Brand Manager within 3-4 years. Since you will begin to manage from the day you join us, we're looking for \take charge\ people with outstanding records of leadership while in college. \Superior academic achievement\ \innovative\, \a record of being able to get things done\ and \good oral and written communi- cations skills\ are some of the words we use to describe the people we want. If this kind of wo·' interests you and you think you qualify, please send me your resume. Ms. Sandy Moersdorf The Procter & Gamble Co. Advertising Personnel P.O. Box 599- Dept. FM Cincinnati, Ohio 45201 An Equal Opportumty Employer ., '·· .( ,t t.' }, I J. ,_ ' .. '· I; ; .1::

that student through intended a five- in Health and the ill need to program for in the Advisor out an the before Early be applica- will be Page3 CONCORD_{ENSIS, Wednesday, Feb. }8, [976 ___ ..___..._----~~~~===~:..:..:..:...:..,;_:__ ______ ~------ Grade inflation declining? by MICHAEL AFFINITO Grade inflation is severely undermining the value a.nd quality of the undergraduate degree at Union, as well as across the .country. The Chronicle of Higher Education reports that universities and colleges are trying to end grade inflation and restore the c,redibility of the baccalaureate degree. Union's Dean of Faculty, Martin Lichterman, said that at a recent meeting of the Association of American Colleges,. administrators were asking each other, \Wha-t are you doing about \grade inflation?\ Everyone talked about it, but no one could postulate an adequate solution or direction from which to approach the ptoblem. Lichterman cited several things which he feels perpetuate grade inflation at Union. He said; \There are a number of junior faculty who tend to question the whole grading system. Being closer to college themselves, they don't think grades are conducive to good education.\ These professors tend to almost always give students the \benefit of the doubt\ in question~ble grading situations. to this dilemma can only come with a change of faculty attitude toward grading practices, according to The Chronicle of Higher Education. No national studies have been conducted to determine whether \grade inflation\ has reached a peak and is beginning to ebb. However, Bates College recently conducted a survey of \colleges often compared to Bates\ to determine grade distributions for those schools. Union was among those surveyed. For the 1973-74 academic year, Union was listed as number 6 out of 20 for giving grades of \A\. The percent of A's given at Unior was 29.4. Between 1973-74 and 1974-75, the number of A's given had risen 1. 7 percent at Union, and the grades for the Fall of I975 show a 1.5 percent increase over that. Many colleges are _attempting to alleviate some of the pressures of \grade inflation\ by what Lichterman tertned as ••band-aid' measures; such as raising the requirements for Dean's. List and Latin Honors. Union is taking steps in ., this direction by attempting to raise the Dean's List requirement to a 3.35 cume. Lichterman also pointed out that \Curricular changes in colleges and universities have had a tremendous impact. This decade has seen a movement away from a highly structured curriculum.\ The new pick and choose philosophy in selecting courses has led to students avoiding courses not closely related to their major or division. Students only take those courses they are comfortable with. Lichterman said, \The new proposal to revise general education (Comp Ed) is going to toughen things up The fact is that the trend at Union does not appear to be one of leveling off but rather \grade inflation\ here is . still on the rise 'Pr.ojessor Nichols plots grade distribution of the future. considerably.\ · Yet such measures do not ease Another major factor contributing to .. grade inflation\ is the concern of students with grades. Lichterman said. \Students are much more grade conscious. That is one place where student input is affecting. grade inflation.\ Tenure appeals hoard changed the situat\ion; tbey serve rather as a cosmetic coVering to preserve the integrity of the College in the eyes of the public. If less honorable mention is given to students a school will appear to be more demanding of its students. However, there is no effect on the grades given. How It Began The reason for this concern is the increasing difficulty in being accepted by graduate and professional schools. Students must perform at an exaggerated level in order to be placed in these institutions. .,Lichterman suspects that there-· · were three primary contributing factors to the birth of grad~ inflation: The Effects · by DR. pAVIO MOSKOWITZ, PH.D The tenure decisions appeal board procedure which faculty set up last December was repealed Monday and a new system was selected to take its place. The meeting was called by be passed to the Presidential Advisory Board. ''An ·existing body should deal with this,\ says Jonas, \also if the review decision is disputed the problem is rushed to the President, anyway.\ Jonas saw merit m a system that from the beginning involved the President without directly appealing to him. The Presidential Advisory Board is not a faculty committee: Jonas mentioned that some professors ·felt tenure decisions should . be · handled by faculty a:lone. \It's not realistic, though,\ he said, \the Review Boa.rd can only recommend The President would be in the middle eventually.\ Jonas justifies emission of students from the procedure by explaining that their input comes in earlier ~n the tenure process. \Students' presence would defeat the entire process,\ concluded Jonas. 1. When the Vietnam War was approaching its peak, many faculty members becaJll:e reluctant to give a failing grade to a male student. Poor grades meant an almost certain call to military duty. The major effect of grade inflation has been to decrease the value of good grades in the eyes of Admissions boards of gra.duate ·and professional ~chools: , · • Provost Willard Enteman in response to faculty objections to the original appeals board. According to Department of History Chairman, Manfred Jonas, \the earlier meeting was ·poorly attended, with less than 20 percent\ of the faculty voting in favor of the approved appeals board.\ Jonas had l)ent a letter to Unwind with the faculty 2. Also, the Vietnam conflict witnessed a growing student militancy on college campuses. Many faculty panicked, and were unwilling to give poor grades. 3. Junior faculty, for a variety of reasons, were and still are to an extent easier graders. . Other nostulations are: faculty members felt obligated to give higher grades in. order to keep student enrollment up at colleges. - faculty are moved by the necessity to filVor students with higher grades in or.der to keep their students in competition with students from ·other schools who are applying to graduate and professional schools. - the caliber of students entering college is sufficiently improved to warrant the higher grades which are being given. These schools are more and more forced to rely on the scores of standardized· tests, such as the · G RE's, MCA T's and LSA T's. Pass-fail grading and transcripts laden with A grades are making it too difficult to make clear-cut judgements between students. Lichterman said, \Any system which moves away from clear-cut grades forces us to rely more on standardized tests. That's unfair;. it's too easy to have a bad day.\ Where Is It Going Dean Lichterman says,\l think 'grade inflation' is now ·slowing down to a halt.\ At many schools there is evidence of a conscious effort by the administration to curb grade inflation. Changes are being made in grading practices, but most of these are again only \band-aid\ measures. Any d'rastic changes in grading methods are. not feasible solutions. The answ'er UNION Number & Percent of Grades 1971- 71 1972-73 1973-74 1974-75 # % # % # % # % A's 4138 27.0 4634 29.5 4711 29.5 5127 31.1 B's 6130 40.0 6324 40.2 6612 41.3 6135 40.9 C's. -3906 25.5 3735 23.8 3578 22.4 3567 21.7 D's 772 5.1 722 4.6 807 5.1 777 4.7 . Fs 365 2.4 302 1.9 272 1.7 267 1.6 Totals 15;311 100.0 15,717 100.0 15,980 100.0 16,473 100.0 · aU faculty members last week explaining why he objected to the original proced\lre: since the proposed appeals board would have dealt with matters of promotion and salary and would not have had enough time to dear with contract renewal problems. Jonas also argued that although the appea.ls. board would have had different members from the Committee on Faculty, its membership and thdr selection would have been essentially ••the same.\ Jonas' substitute procedure, ••unclogged the appeals procedure.\ Am untenured faculty member now has two alternatives if a tenure decision is challenged: if it is a matter of procedural error or impinged academic freedom, a faculty committee will hear the problem. Matters of contract renewal will Fall'75 Have you ever been bummed out on Friday afternoons -upon coming to the realization that you have got~en through a grueling week and I) there is no place to go to unwind (we all get tired of the Skeller) and 2) there is no one to unwind with since most have gone home for the weekend? Have you ever wondered what it would be like to confe.r with your professors about non~academic matters over several glasses of beer or wine? If your answer is yes to either or both of the above questions, Un~on College has come up with a program to meet There will be a meeting on Monday, February 23, in room 113 of the Psychology building at 4:30 for all students interested in orgamzmg a substantive system of action in regard to Prof. Howard Berthold's tenurability. 1764 32.6% FRESHMAN RECORD 2313 41% ll69 21% 240 4.3% ~ MEETING 80 1.45% SENI·ORS The final, ultimate to help phin & organize the 1980 Freshman Record. Any hard working individuals are encouraged to attend. deadline is at hand~ H you have a senior picture or wlll have one you must inform the Union Book of this fad. Drop a note in the Union Book mailbox in the rnaU room or student activities by 1st Floor South Lounge 7:30p.m. Thim., Feb. 19th, 1976 your needs. Starting this Friday afternoon at 4 pm in the Davidson Co-op lounge (opposite Delta Upsilon), and throughout the year, the College will sponsor several functions intended to bring students and faculty together in an informal setting. The informality will be secured by the presence of fun-loving people as well as excellent refreshments: ample supplies. of bee(, . wjne, soda, cheese, and munchies. Last year, as many may recall, these get-togethers were held in Hale House and met with significant success. However, too often one felt he was being ushered out prematurely by the onslaught of hungry students eager for their dinners. In order to assure complete relaxation and unlimited time for discussion and consumption(in that order), from now on these functions will be hosted in dormitories. This will also accentuate. the desired outcome of · informal meetings between students and faculty. It is the . intention of the individuals engaged in this project that a tradition may -eventually evolve whereby every Friday afternoon will be devoted to the idea of faculty and students '\letting their hair down\ over refreshments. The only way this may become reality is through student and faculty support. Union Pharmacy 600 Union St. Men& Women Student Needs 374-3605 • _M.-~,_n __ da __ .. y.,,. .. F ~·e .• b_ ..... L'.-a,... .. ~ . .,~ .. ~n ...... \!fd:. ~~-. ...... .. ~---·-----'--~·-~~.......-·\\\'·\\\\'\'\'''·\\\'.II, ,. ..... .,_.!1111-.l!lllll. _......,... ..... ......,......,_,.._ ................ \'iill •.. ,..._~~--lilll' ... _~.-~~-~-·---._ ____ .... _.~- .. -_ ....... --.- ______ __.

that student hrough intended a five- n Health nand the II need to program for in the out an the before Early i be applica- will be ' ., '·· ,( l· 't l' }, I . .~.:.• .... ,_ ,_, .; .. <'· ' J.'...: > .. !· J. r 1:: ;, ' ~ J, ;-. ~ •o,j lJ ·~~ Page3 CO NCORDIENS!S, Wednesday, Feb. 18, 1976 __ __,__ _____ ....::=:::==~.::.::.:_:_.:...:..___::_:_~--------~---- --- Grade inflation declining? by MiCHAEL AFFINITO Grade int1ation is severely undermining the value and quality of the undergraduate degree at Union, as well as across the country. The Chronicle of Higher Education reports that universities and colleges are trying to end grade inflation and restore the credibility of the baccalaureate degree. Union's Dean of Faculty, Martin Lichterman, said that at a recent meeting of the Association of American Colleges, administrators were asking each other, \Wlmt are you doing about \grade inflation?\ Everyone talked about it, but no one could postulate an adequate solution or direction from which to approach the problem. Lichterman cited several things which he feels perpetuate grade inflation at Union. He said, \There are a number of junior faculty who tend to question the whole grading system. Being closer to college themselves, they don't think grades are conducive to good education.\ These professors tend to almost always give sttidents the \benefit of the doubt\ in questionable grading situatioas. to th1s dilemma can only come with a change of faculty attitude toward grading practices, according to The Chronicle of Higher Education. No national studies have been conducted to determine whether \grade inllation\ has reached a peak and is beginning to ebb. However, Bates College recently conducted a survey of \colleges often compared to Bates\ to determine grade distributions for those schools. Union was among those surveyed. For the 1973-74 academic year, Union was listed as number 6 out of 20 for giving grades of \A\. The percent of A's given at Uni01 was 29.4. Between 1973-74 and 1974-75, the number of A's given had risen 1.7 percent at Union, and the grades for the Fall of 1975 show a 1.5 percent increase over that. Many colleges are attempting to alleviate some of the pressures of \grade inflation\ by what Lichterman termed as \band-aid' measures, such as raising the requirements for Dean's. List and Latin Honors. Union is taking steps in this direction by attempting to raise the Dean's List requirement to a 3.35 c~:~me. Lichterman also pointed out that \Curricular changes in colleges and universities have had a tremendous impact. This decade has seen a movement away from a highly structured curriculum.\ The new pick and choose philosophy in selecting courses has led to students avoiding courses not closely related to their major or division. Students only take those courses they are comfortable with. Lichterman said, \The new proposa.J to revise general education (Comp Ed) is going to toughen things up considerably.\ The fact is that the trend at Union does not appear to be one of leveling off but rather \grade inflation\ here is · still on the rise 'Professor Nichols plots grade distribution of the future. Yet such measures do not ease Another major factor contributing to \grade inflation\ is the concern of students with grades. Lichterman said, \Students are much more grade conscious. That is one place where student input is affecting grade inflation.\ Tenure appeals hoard changed the sit~:~atlon; they serve rather as a cosmetic covering to preserve the integrity of the College in the eyes of the public. If less honorable mention is given to students a school will appear to be more demanding of its students. However, there is no effect on the grades given. How It Began Lichterman suspects that there were three primary contributing factors to the birth of grade inflation: The reason for this concern is the increasing difficulty in being accepted by graduate and professional schools. Students must perform at an exaggerated level in order to be placed in these institutions. The Effects by DR. DAVID MOSKOWITZ, PH.D The tenure decisions appeal board procedure which faculty set up last December was repealed Monday and a new system was selected to take its place. be passed to the Presidential Advisory Board. \An existing body should deal with this,\ says Jonas, \also if the review decision is disputed the problem is rushed to the President, anyway.\ Jonas saw ment m a system that from the beginning involved the President without directly appealing to him. The Presidential Advisory Board is not a faculty committee: Jonas mentioned that some professors felt tenure decisions should be handled by faculty alone. \It's not realistic, though,\ he said, \the Review Bol\rd can only recommend The President would be in the middle eventually.\ Jonas justifies emission of students from the procedure by explaining that their input comes in earlier in the tenure process. \Students' presence would defeat the entire process,\ concluded Jonas. I. When the Vietnam War was approaching its peak, many faculty members beca!l1e reluctant to give a failing grade to a male student. Poor grades meant an almost certain call to military duty. The major effect of grade inflation has been to decrease the value of good grades in the eyes of Admissions boards of graduate and professional schools. The meeting was called by Provost Willard Enteman in response to faculty objections to the original appeals board. According to Department of History Chairman, Manfred Jonas, \the earlier meeting was . poorly attended, with less than 20 percent of the faculty voting in favor of the approved appeals board.\ Jonas had sent a letter to all faculty members last week explaining why he objected to the original procedure: since the proposed appeals board would have dealt with matters of promotion and salary and would not have had enough time to dear with contract renewal problems. Jonas also argued that although the appeals board would have had different members from the Committee on Faculty, its membership and their selection would have been essentially ''the same.\ Unwind with the faculty 2. Also, the Vietnam conflict witnessed a growing student militancy on college campuses. Many faculty panicked, and were unwilling to give poor grades. 3. Junior faculty, for a variety of reasons, were and still are to an extent easier graders. Other nostulations are: faculty members felt obligated to give higher grades in order to keep student enrollment up at colleges. - faculty are moved by the necessity to favor students with higher grades in order to keep their students in competition with students from other schools who are applying to graduate and professional schools. the caliber of students entering college is sufficiently improved to warrant the higher grades which are being given. ~ These schools are more and more forced to rely on the scores of standardized tests, such as the GRE's, MCAT's and LSAT's. Pass-fail grading and transcripts laden with A grades are making it too difficult to make clear-cut judgements between students. Lichterman said, \Any system which moves away from clear-cut grades forces us to rely more on standardized tests. That's unfair; it's too easy to have a bad day.\ Where Is It Going Dean Lichterman says,\! think 'grade inflation' is now 'slowing down to a halt.\ At many schools there is evidence of a conscious effort by the administration to curb grade inflation. Changes are being made in grading practices, but most of these are again only \band-aid\ measures. Any drastic changes in grading methods are. not feasible solutions. The answ-er UNION Number & Percent of Grades 1971- 71 1972-73 1973-74 1974-75 # % # % # % # % A's 4138 27.0 4634 29.5 471l 29.5 5127 3l.l B's 6130 40.0 6324 40.2 6612 41.3 6135 40.9 C's . 3906 25.5 3735 23.8 3578 22.4 3567 21.7 D's 772 5.1 722 4.6 807 5.1 777 4.7 F's 365 2.4 302 1.9 272 1.7 267 1.6 Totals 15,311 100.0 15,717 100.0 15,980 100.0 16,473 100.0 The final, ultimate Jonas' substitute procedure, \unclogged the appeals procedure.\ Am untenured faculty member now has two alternatives if a tenure decision is challenged: if it is a matter of procedural error or impinged academic freedom, a faculty committee will hear the problem. Matters of contract renewal will Fall '7S Have you ever been bummed out on Friday afternoons upon coming to the realization that you have gotten through a grueling week and.!) there is no place to go to unwind (we all get tired of the Skeller) and 2) there is no one to unwind with since most have gone home for the weekend? Have you ever wondered what it would be like to confer with your professors about non-academic matters over several glasses of beer or wine? If your answer is yes to either or both of the above questions, Union College has come up with a program to meet There will be a meeting on Monday, February 23, in room 113 of the Psychology building at 4:30 for all students interested in organizing a substantive system of action in regard to Prof. Howard Berthold's tenurability. 1764 32.6% FRESHMAN RECORD 2313 1169 240 80 41% 21% 4.3% 1.45% MEETING to help plan & orgamze the 1980 Freshman Record. Any hard working individuals are encouraged to attend. SENIORS deadline is at hand. If you have a senior picture or will have one you must inform the Union Book or this fact. Drop a note in the Union Book mailbox in the mail room or student activities by 1st Floor South Lounge 7:30p.m. Thurs., Feb. 19th, 1976 your needs. Starting this Friday afternoon at 4 pm in the Davidson Co-op lounge (opposite Delta Upsilon), and throughout the year, the College will sponsor several functions intended to bring students and faculty together in an informal setting. The informality will be secured by the presence of fun-loving people as well as excellent refreshments: ample supplies of beer, wine, soda, cheese, and munchies . Last year, as many may recall, these get-togethers were held in Hale House and met with significant success. However, too often one felt he was being ushered out prematurely by the onslaught of hungry students eager for their dinners. In order to assure complete relaxation and unlimited time for discussion and consumption(in that order), from now on these functions will be hosted in dormitories. This will also accentuate the desired outcome of informal meetings between students and faculty. It is the intention of the individuals engaged in this project that a tradition may eventually evolve whereby every Friday afternoon will be devoted to the idea of faculty and students \letting their hair down\ over refreshments. The only way this may become reality is through student and faculty support. Union Pharmacy 600 Union St. Men & Women Student Needs 374 .. 3605 .M _._o_n_._cla __ .,y,,F _e_b_r_rUUJ.-. 6 13 --'··•---· . . . __ ..... ~ .. ~-·----·····-~· .... _ .C.~e,_.-. ..... 1111!! ...... ...-. ..... _....... ....... ,.,. __ ._.._ .... _ . ..........,.,._.,. __ .... .......,_.._.......,._.

Page4 arts • • • • • • ' • '' • • ~ • • • • • ·~ ' • I • • • '• Ben Jonson stril{es bacl~ Sirs: Recent developments at your most noble and learned institution have aroused me to a point at which I feel virtually obligated to make an immediate response. My ire is raised with the knowledge that once again I, and other great playwrights, have been dealt an injustice. This time, however, i't may not go unnoticed. This time, the truth must be shown. Once again a work by that ruffian of language, the scourge of the Elizabethan, has been se- lected as a production to be at sundry times publicly acted by the Union College Mountebanks. This cur, this very tim, has made himself a name with the common multitudes and cares not whose living face he intrenches with his petulant styles. It is certain that too much license of poetasters in this time has let manifold and manifest ignorance to stick immaterial repreoaches on his audiences, letting the learned suffer. His manners, as is his nature, are inverted, and nothing i·emains with him li)f the dignity of poet but the abused:nanie, which every scribe usurps. Especially in the Dramatic or as some term it, stage-poetry, nothing but ribaldy, profanation, blasphemy, and aU license of offense to God and man is practiced. How can the Mountebanks be swayed by this cockatrice's, this cozener's cheap stage tricks. They must look to another source. For my particular, I can, and from. a most clear conscience,affirm that I have ever trembled to think toward the least profaneness and have loathed the use of such foul and unwashed bawdry. I atn not making any suggestions to the Mountebanks but my works stand on their own merit. I cannot be but serious in a catise of this nature, wherein my fame and the .reputations of diverse honest and learned are the question. When a name, with which all fairness should have died with its owner, becomes so full of authority, antiquity, and all great mack that others, more deserving, are forgotten in its shadow. Of course, one may bring up that I did call him the .. sdul of the age\ and \a monument without a tomb\ but one must also realize that these comments were published in what really a·mounted to, how.ever late it was, an elegy to a dead man. What was I supposed to say? He was illiterate? He never owned a book? I got in enough trouble with \he knew little Latin and less Greek.\ After all, Anne would be Box office info The Box Office of the N ott Memorial Theater is now open, seiling tickets -for The Tempest, which will be performed Feb. 26, 27, 28, 29, March 3, 4, 5 and 6. The Box Office will be open weekdays from one to five-thirty. Due to financial circumstances beyond the control of the Mountebanks, Union ·students will be charged fifty cents admission. Seating in the totally remodeled N ott is limited, so tickets should be purchased early. In addition, volunteers are sought to assist in the staffing of the office. It is easy work (it even allows· for studying while working); and what's more, it will broaden your horizons, realize your talents, develop your potential, and do all sorts of neat, theater-type things for your psyche. If you're interested, drop by the Box Office this Thursday or Friday between one and five- thirty, and all will be explained to you. Rehearsals continue this week despite prevailing con,ditions. SHOP ON JAY STREET For Your Mind Body Soul THE OPEN DOOR BOOK SHOP , ... THE COUNTRy KITCHEN Gershon's Delicatessen 1(;00 Union St. 397-0617 Fine Goods To Go or Stay • II - -~ collecting royalties for a few more years and Francis and I were stili getting kickbacks under the counter. I wasn't about to ruin a good thiag like that. For the pr.esent, however, most revered Editors, I have made an attempt to raise the royal head of poetry again. I am calling on members of the Union College campus to join me. Some of you, you know who you are, have already made our cause known. All I can say to you is: \persevere.\ To others. who have Nott committed themselves on this volatile issue I say: \Stand up and be counted.\ Truth must live en and credit must be given where credit is due. In conclusion, I can do nothing but quote one 'of the greatest poets and scholars of all time (namely, myself): \'Tic Transit gloria Mundi\ From my house in the Black-Friars this 17th Day of February, 1976 Sen Jonson John Rose is Prospero in Mountebanks' production of The Tempest. N ott hole vents strange storm While the cast and production crew actively prepare for next week's opening of William Shakespeare's The Tempest, a \tempest\ of true proportions seems to be brewing in and around the N ott Memorial. The beginnings of this \tempest\ were innocent enough. Stories about photographers being swept off their feet by airy spirits are easy for the average college student to stomach as part of some publicity h~pe. But I invite any educated person to consider the following and then conclude what kind of power is at work here. According to John Rinaldo, veteran observer of the Nipple, the pigeons which inhabit the roof of the Nott Memorial have drastically altered their patterns of excretion. The birds have shifted their gentle droppings a full 75' to the south. Those students who must enter the Campus Bookstore are strongly advised to wear rain(;oats to protect themselves from any unnecessary shit. The change of the pigeons' toilet habits' may he linked to another improbable event. It has come to my attention that a flock of bats have taken up residence inside the condemned third floor of the Nott. Theseaerialmice have been, attacking the birds from time to time. Sotne ()[ the pigeon have already fled to the Arts Building roof. Veteran observers feel that the shit will soon come down in this general area. · As if this weren\t enough, the men\s and women•s rooms. have become infested with toads and beetles. Mountebanks has gone so far as to consult the services of . the Angus MacHalftrack Pest Control Firm to eliminate the problem. (It is my understanding The Union College Film Committee Presents on Feb. 24 at 8, 10 p.m. Across llOth Street 50e ' ' '. '11. ·~· by BACON BOTWINICK that he performs a similarly vital to capture the hermit have proven function in keeping the worthless. His green complexion Rathskellar rest rooms in tip-top appears to provide camouflage in shape.) the dim light. He has been coaxed The Nott Memorial itself has to one .af the openings of the fallen victim to this strange series s tag e h o we ve r , w h e r e of events. On February 4th, a photographer Bill Collins was section of copper plating able to snap a shot of his (her?) disappeared from the south face lateral extremities. of the dome. No trace of the plate Nonetheless, it is . .anticipated has been found despite a that these matters will be cleaned prolonged search. The contractor up and cleared out before the who originally set the copper on opening preview of The Tempest the dome, C. Owen Biggs III, on February 25. Class of '29, could not be For those interested: Tickets immediately reached for a for The Tempest are available at comment. the Nott Memorial Theatre box The final episode involves a office. Tickets may be picked up grotesque hermit who has hidden in person any weekday from l himself in the caverns under the p.m. to 5 p.m. Reservations may newly erected stage floor. The be made by phone; call 370-6153. \Hunchback of Nott Hole .. as he Tickets are 50 cents ($.50) for all has been nicknamed, answers. to Union College Students; Faculty the name 'Calvin\ with various and Staff are $.50 on weekdays groaning noises. Several .attempts and $1.00 on weekends. 1-: Photos by Cliff Langweiler and Bill Collins Calvin, 'The Hunchback of Nott Hole, • lurking just below the stage. ,~ ~.· \ ''·

proven in coaxed of the where was (her?) the Tempest Tickets ilable at box up from l may 70-6153. for all Faculty .:: ' ' ' CONCORDIENSIS, Wednesday, Feb. 18, 1976 Page5 I ' • • > • '• • • • • • \ '; : • • • ' • • • ' • ' • ' • • • • .. ' • • • ~ • • ' ~ • • arts Gallery show: The inhumanity of war On February 11, 1976 the Union ·Gallery opened its doors to a visual library, a place where one may find graphically recorded facts. The title of the exhibit is \Viet Nam, a Photographic Essay of the Undeclared War in Southeast Asia.\ Originally conceived by Capa Award- winning Life photographer John Olson, the pieces in this display are the Work of nine of Mr. Olson's colleagues reported missing or killed while recording the war. The photographs in the exhibition bear no captions or descriptions; they make their own statements. The Gallery Association of New York State made this exhibition pessih!e. The show is a success, I oid not realize exactly what war was like l}ntil l saw the bloodied and homeless. I felt ashamed to be an American after viewing the innocent peasant families forced to leave their 1 burning villages, while a Uni · d States plane patrolled the y, ready to flatten a few mor uts. The sadness war caus IS seen in the bandaged, oodied and limbless. The plight of the refugees is depicted in the black and white photograph taken by Kyiochi S wad a. War is a constant struggle for survival. Swada captures this with a photograph of a mother guiding her family away from their ruined home. There is no Concerts:· by ·CHARLIE FLANAGAN father among this family; he is probably dead or captured. No provisions had been taken. These people are running from the inevitable. Uke a plague, the bombs and bullets will reach the family and eith~r separate them or bring a lonely death. One of the best pieces of the exhibition is a color photograph of a muddy United States camp. Sitting amidst his own waste and wounds, a glassy eyed soldier lGoks out from behind his near dead body and gazes at a wounded black sokdier. The white soldier's swollen hand holds onto the remains of a blown up tree. The dying man sits •apart from the camp; he has been weeded out from the rest of the soldiers. The bullets from an enemy gun caused the life of the white soldier to end, leaving his black friend with only dreams of their past· friendship. · The .inhumanity of war- is depicted in two color photographs taken by Larry Burrows. One shows a little Vietnamese girl patiently waiting for a carpenter to put the finishing touches on her new artificial leg. She has a look of wonder in her eyes. War has made her different from the rest of her friends. It has destroyed a part of her and left nothing in its place. The other Burrow's photograph is of a wounded United States soldier. The man's head is bleeding and the blood runs down his forehead and into his eyes. A medic hurries to plug up some · fresh wounds. The injured G.I. stares at memories of past dreams. This is all the man has left. His thin body struggles against the death .that is beginning to creep in. War has eaten away at the person he once was and leaves only a skeleton. Henri Huet's two black and white photographs show how war transforms men into pathetic individuals. Two United States soldiers, heads wrapped with dirty bandages, try to comfort one another. They sit in a shallow foxhole smrounded by emptiness. One man blindly looks out from his wrapped wounds begging that the pain in his .body cease. His buddy attempts to drink something out of a can, but collapses into the relief death brings. Both men are helpless victims of somebody else's decision. War turns men into killing machines': The United States government is responsible for this \undeclared war.\ Teo bad a few of those responsible governmental officials could not have spent a few minutes with the soldiers, experiencing the pain, blood, and loss of life all around. Vietnam photo on exhibit at Union Gallery. Film: Kubrick's expensive triumph by JACK PITNEY Sha-Na~Na hits Union Redmond Barry (Ryan O'Neal) is a poor Irish lad in the 18th century who yearns to be a gentleman. As he grow to manhood, fate propels him into first the English and then the Prussian army. After he finishes his service in the latter, he becomes the apprentice to a shady gambler (Patrick Magee) who teaches him the fine art of cheating. He then win,s the heart of the soon-to-be widowed Lady Lybdon (Marisa Berenson); in time, he takes her name, squanders her money, and destroys her happiness. Finally, he meets with the misfortunes that his evil ways have earned him. Stanley Kubrick has turned it into one of the most beautiful films of the decade. His cinematography is nothing less than stunning. By using extremely fast film, he was able to shoot several sequences by candlelight. We thus can see the night as the people of Georgian England saw it: through a flickering orange glow. Sha Na Na's celebration of rock and roll, launched from the subways, streetcorners, and lounges of America's_ cities, has soared to the stage with standing- room-only su€cess. In six years, these ten talented young men have put together the hottest floating rock and roll show this side of Woodstock, Europe and Eye Witness News. And they're coming to Union. Sha Na Na is a unique blend of stage and song; each of the Shas on stage can be the punk rattling his bicycle chains or the smooth, elegant Johnny Mathis. Today, these characters have been expanded to include the sexy sultriness of Elvis coming down a massive staircase Busby Berkeley style, or even Tommy, The Who's The Union College Film Committee Presents Mel Brook's Blazing Saddles . Feb. 21-22 . 7, 9, 11 p.m. $1.00 Pinball Wizard himself. Also among Sha Na Na's newly acquired props will be a rather dramatic twenty-foot high inflatable jukebox. This, and other rather impressive surprises, were created by well~known set designer Gene McAvoy, who is best known for his work on network television for sets including the Smothers Brothers Show, Sonny and Cher, Hullaballoo, and the recent Mary Tyler Moore Special. Public appeal and an irrepressible ambition to perform has brought these ten men into the most unique theatrical .collaboration working today. The experience of Sha N a Na grants every member of its audience a chance to participate in that by- gone era of a pop culture, a self- perpetuating phenomenon that has helped form the ideals and emotions of millions of young people. Sha Na N a will make its debut at Union·s Memorial Chapel next Thursday night, February 26, at 9:00p.m. With Lyndon another cabaret Thursday, February 19, 1976 Shows at 9:4)0 and 11:00 P.M. Tickets on Sale in Carnegie at 8:00 P.M. such a story, Barry could have been just costume epic. But The Music of Paul Simon Sung By ~~LESLIE GOLDSTEIN/ JOHN KNUDSEN1 Incidental Music by Jeff Amado ~ ~ Important Change: 4 } Next week CABARET will be on TUESDAY NIGHT, February 24 at 9:00 and 11 P.M. Tickets will go on sale at 8:00 in Carnegie. The show will feature Helena Binder and her band and Freddy S'imon -Raconteur Tuesday Night - Tuesday Night - Tuesday (Game Ni'ght will be Wednesday Night.) _A .0. .0. .0. .A. ~ The performances are not outstanding, but this is intentional on Kubrick's part. As Co~tinued on Page 8 'Musle to hurt your ·brain' RIDE BOARD IS AIRED AT 6:30 & lva.J•v

.Page6 CONCORDIENSlS, Wednesday, Feb. 18, 1976 paper students It's almost a year now ... since we began hearing about community participation, that is. A· year down the drain and nothing has been accomplished. In deciding to set up yet another sub- committee to study the question of officially recording students• community involvement, the Senate has taken a giant step backwards. Members of the faculty continually refer to the unworkability of every means of implementing community partiCipation proposed. Mention is frequently made of how little time faculty advisors would have to spare for recording any non- academic activities. It is also said that whatever proposal is arrived at will be rejected summarily by the faculty. How can faculty members say they agree with the \spirit\ of the participation proposal while so eagerly searching for reasons to not implement it? If the faculty feels that recording participation is in any way a good idea, an effort should be made to back the impending sub-committee recommendation. Still, it seems that faculty will continue to place their obligation to students. · strictly within established guidelines, giving written academic transcripts higher priority than students' personal development. Professor Dwight Phaup referred to a \sacrifice in the transcript's quality;\ Joe Finkelstein mentioned the \muddying up of the transcript document;\ Ted Schwartz complained of the cost of adding material to the present transcript. In every case, faculty emphasize the students' final values and accOmplishments at Union as no more than what is found on that one piece of paper. .. Community participation involves more than a written list; it aims to encourage students to increase their personal commitment to this college. It aims to increase the rapport between faculty and students. It aims to emphasize the faculty's out-of- class responsibility for the students of Union. If the Senate is to reject the final mechanism for the participation proposal, it may as well look into revamping the faculty advising system at the same time. Such a rejection reinforces the faculty conception of students as paper transcripts rather than human beings. call me irresponsible DLM Scndin_g students their College bill, with a copy to parents, is an unnecessary and ridiculous attempt by the College to \make students more responsible\ for paying their bills. Not only does this create one more step in the process - having to mail the \return copy\ of the bill home-, it is a petty matter. The degree of increased responsibility, if any, is questionable. In the majority of cases p3;rents dole out the money to pay the balance of College bills. It is rare, but admirable, to find a student paying his/ her way through college._ So, what does this gesture by the College si~nify? Are they attempting to make college more like \the real world\. If so the College should have gone one st ep further and made students transfer money from their parents accounts in to their own; then our very own signatures could have appeared on the check that pays the way. Opinion: A senior's last, numbered days by PETER SOBOl wkhhhthh hhhh hh ddss dft tti tieott tt oo 1 (sorry my typewriter is acting up) What do you think about getting out'? I mean if you are a senior, your days are numbered. You will be out soon. What do you think about that? Some people seem to look forward to it. For some people college is a four-year hypodermic - four years of crossing off days, watching the clock, and sleepless nights. Why did they start in the first place? Maybe their parents coerced them. Maybe, to them, college is only one in a long chain of hypodermics leading to some distant, obscure goal of fame, hearts, and dollars. Let us hope that the goal they reach by the chain of hypodermics does not turn out to be a hypodermic itself. Some people are scared stiff of getting out. And why not'! The world is out there, with resumes, interviews, bills, taxes, cooking your own meals, washing your own dishes, and two thousand friends to make all over again. lt's out there with some eight-to-five scronge job, six days a week, in seme huge strange city where maintenance won't fix the toilet, the Infirmary won't give you aspirin, and Jack won't give you a ride to the store in his '55. Y eu'd have to be nuts to walk into aH that yourself. You might also get bored of watching tile tube after a while, and decide that the best of everything always has the worst of everything wrapped up in it somewhere as an unavoidable bonus. Might as well chance the bad for the good rather than sit on your hands and believe everything the tube tells you. Then there must be a few people who see both sides - who will miss it all but who wiU leave of their own accord. There is a saying among performers:. always leave them wanting ·more. It works the other way sometimes, too: always leave wanting more. Maybe not when you go to tum Fong's or to Dunk's but when you go to college. The good times are good because they .are not going to last forever, We'll take our degrees, put them in the trunk, and head out to see what else there is in the world besides college. After aH, we have been teased for y.ears by history, documentary, and discovery; by tales, fibs, jokes, yarns, and pure .poppycock. If we don't eat so well aut there, it won't kill us .. If we don't sta_y warm, it won't erase what we have seen and done. But we won't starve or freeze - we

.Page6 CONCORDJENSIS, Wednesday, Feb. 18, 1976 Opinion: paper students A senior's last, numbered days h's almost a year now ... since we began hearing ahnut community participation\ that is. A year dowr: the drain and nothing has been accomplish~d. In deciding to set up yet ano~her sub- (ommittee to study the LJUcstion of officially recording students' community involvement. the Senate has taken a giant step backwards. Members of the faculty continually refer to the unworkabilitv of everv means of implementing community . participati~n proposed. Mention is frequently made of how little time faculty advisors would have to spare for recording any non- academic activities. It is also said that whatever proposal is arrived at will be rejected summarily by the faculty. How can faculty members say they agree w~th the \spirit\ of the participation proposal whtle so eagerly searching for reasons to not implement it? If the faculty feels that recording participation is in anv way a good idea. an effort should be made to ha.ck the impending sub-committee recommendation. Still, it seems that faculty will continue to place their obligation to students strictly within established guidelines, giving written academic transcripts higher priority than students' personal development. Professor Dwight Phaup referred to a ••sacrifice in the transcript's quality;\ Joe Finkelstein mentioned the \muddying up of the transcript documenc\ Ted Schwartz complained of the cost of adding material to the present transcript. In every case, faculty emphasize the students' final values and accomplishments at Union as no more than what is found on that one piece of paper. Community participation involves more than a by P'EHJ~ SOBOL wkhhhthh hhhh hh ddss dft tti tieott tt oo I (sorry my typewriter is acting up) What do you think about getting out\1 I mean il you arc a senior. your days arc numbered. 1 ou will be out soon. What do ynu think al\lDut ihaf! Some people seem to look forward to it. For some people college is a four-year hypodermic lour years of crossing off days. watching the clock, and sleepless nights. Why did they start in the first place? Maybe their parents coerced them. Maybe, to them, college is only one in a long chain of hypodermics leading to some distant, obscure goal of fame, hearts, and dollars. Let us hope that the goal they reach by the chain of hypodermics does not turn out to be a hypodermic itself. Some people are scared stiff of getting out. And why not? The written list~ it aims to encourage students to I,>:·;',J<;;,,..,,.,;:;:'\h' increase their personal commitment to this college . .,, ..... ,,.,. ... It aims to increase the rapport between faculty and l'\\:.,\;t>aJ.ant~eu\ students. It aims to emphasize the faculty's out-of- a<g·,iverl'lt':>.mell?~ Mtt§ult class responsibility for the students of Union. If the Senate is to reject the final mechanism for the participation propo~al, it may as well look into revamping the faculty advising system at the same time. Such a rejection reinforces the faculty conception of students as paper transcripts rather than human beings. call me irresponsible DLM Sending students their College hill, with a copy to parents, is an unnecessary and ridiculous attempt by the College to \make students more responsible\ for paying their bills. . ~ot onlv does this create one more step m the procc:-,:-, · having to mail the \return copy\ of the hill home--. it is a petty matter. The degree of increa:-,cd responsibility, if any, is questionable. In the majority of cases parents dole out the money to pay the balance of College bills. It is rare. but admirable. to find a student paying his/ her way t hrou.f.!h college. So. what docs this gesture hy the College si~nify? Are the\ attempting to make college more ltke ''the real v. orld\. If so the College should have gone one st cp further and made students tr~nsfer money from their parents accounts in to their own; then our very own signatures could have appeared on the check that pays the way. MRA Editors, Concordiensis: I must admit that . during t~e last one and two thirds years of' my college career, l have sat back and watched others set directions for Union to follow. [ would always complain about the lack of student government to legislate · policies that I felt would be ·.advantageous to the Campus Community.. . Finally, after bein!$ advised to do so .by a friend, 1 attended the , town meeting that was being run . by . the <:<Jllege electorate .. The . . .. pi.irpt1se. of,,,:rtte , meeting . was· to '\ infonn the :student · body on world is out there, with resumes, interviews. bills, taxes, cooking your own meals. washing your own dishes, and two thousand friends to make all over again. It's out there with some eight-to-five scronge job, six days a week. in :-.ome huge strange city where maintenance won't fix the toilet, the Infirmary won't give you aspirin, and Jack won't give you a ride to the store in his '55. You'd have to be nuts to walk into all that yourself. You might also get bored of watching the tube after a while, and decide that the best of everything always has the worst of everything wrapped up in it somewhere as an unavoidable bonus. Might as well chance the bad for the good rather than sit oA your hands and believe everything the tube tells you. Then there must be a few people who see both sides - who to will miss it all but who will leave of their owH accord. There is a saying among performers: alway~ lea\c them wanting more. lt works the other way sometimes, tDo: alwavs leave wanting more. Maybe m;t when you go to Lum Fong's or to JJunk's but when you go to college. The good times are good because they are not going to last forever, We'll take our degrees. put them in the trunk. and head out to see what else there is in the world besides college. After all, we have been teased for years by history. documentary, aAd discovery; by tales, fibs, jokes, yarAs, and pure poppycock. If we don't eat so well out there, it won't kill us. If we don't stay warm, it won't erase what we have seen and done. But we won't starve or freeze - we Continued on Page 9 l · . th~H 'ftttltJ:Um~eu.t ··. 'c···we:re;·~to· W'canwUed'dtie to· lack .oT ·st;Ment~ .(:~~ t+IlC~f't~in • pnsglbiiiiy' ·· ·at·· presi:Sut); deprlving lriarw sertimrs ,of their last chance ,. in the, .. Tf!~~~ A~~uad\.for fa,i!, .. - .. term l91trin Retmes, France, and · Florence, Jt~ly has ~een rather · low thus far. ·1 am so disappointed by· thisn~ws . that l've. been motivated to write myfirst letter to take ·advantage of them, then ~~ the students ofthis coUege will ·· have let a reaLly ·fine educatiQmU opportunity~· for .:manY go·.· to waste. PrOspects far'Q,ontinuance to Ct)nenrdy in .:fo¥ryears; . For .. tho.:~ewtho,.,A:f:l.')l).:t .. know, .. Te!·ms Abroad'~ are' ofl~red as Comp E.d pr:oj~ts. 'fh~ .. Collese .has .these \in of the progr~utts at Unwn would -also be .. weak~ned. Sn I urge interested members of this community · . ·to .. consider whether 'a. term .·· abroad ..\9 WO):tid, ,cbe; a • ·-·'

\CoP?; Qct_;cl(, rf;p~ ~)'.f.'.··~ I ,<, ·,, ! ( . ·~' / • < . t r 1ft() • ··<\;l{l CONCORDIENSIS, Wednesday; Feb. 18. 1976 Pag.e 7 Opinion: Term a:broadb on Lenox Road by JEFF AMADO 1 t was a dark and stormy night. I left my safe and secure down- campus dorm wondering about the journey ahead. I walked cautiously up the path leading from to the stairs which brought me up to the level of the rest of the campus. The wind was howling and doud~ sped through the sky. Would I make it before the torrential rain.'? I walked up towards Library PlaLa. As I neared the Skeller an urge came over me to seek refuge in my old hangout. The juke box was playing its Siren melody, but as my feet turned twoards the Dutchman's hideaway I rem~bercd that I had a journey to complete. Passing the N ott, and in between the Library and Social Sciences building I proceeded up towards the Science Center. The big new complex loomed ominously in the dark February night. I picked up the pace as my journey grew lonelier. Did my friend actually live somewhere beyond all this? Either way, he was waiting for me as I turned the corner past the Science Center. A large, flooded parking lot new confronted me. As I picked my way carefully through the cars and in between the puddles I looked up at the sky. It was still threateQing, but perhaps I could reach my destination before the cloudburst. Up ahead I saw the deserted soccer field flanking the hockey rink. That was it! I .knew that I'd been up this way once before · it was for a hockey game. Rut where was his dorm? As I left the parking lot and passed the hockey rink a footbridge appeared. Could this be a trap'? Docs the bridge ha vc a false bttom and will I fall through into the brook below? I thought not and ran quickly over the menacing wooden structure. On the other side lay the Field House. I'd been here once before, too, for a basketball game, but never any farther than this especially not alone. I began to miss my dorm, and wondered if I was ever going to make it. Walking through the field house parking lot I saw buildings up ahead! Could this he it? I walked up the hill, and wondered how he ever got stuck up here. Who would do it to him'! My watch said that it was 9:07 - it had only taken seven minutes to get here. That wasn't so bad - maybe I'll even come back again sometime. umon C d• • college oncor tenSIS EDITORS-IN-CH IFF..... .... .... .... . ........ Mike Affinito. David Moskowit7 CULTURE ......................................................... Sue Finkelstein. Diane Nelson NEWS-FEATURFS ......................................... Audrey Rothschild. Sue Draper, Chris O'Connor SPORTS ........................................................ Charlie Flanagan. John Busterud. Allyne Price I.A YOllT. .......................................................... .. ..... Lance Travis CIRCULATION. CLASSIFIED .......... . . Jne Cappuccio . ... Phil Alcahes ... 1 e•ler Wei\ .. Shervl Farhcr Rhonda Kaplan COPY ................ . ART ....... .. CAl FNDAR BllSl:-\FSS MANAGFR SUBSCRIPTIONS. NATIONAl. ADS. .. .... . Shellev Gold Steve Kelly CONTRIBUTING FDITOR ........ . . ........... Jack Pit nev PHOTO FDITOR . PHOTOGRAPHY . Greg Cohen .lim Raker. Kevin Schary. Dehhy Kaufman. Cliff I an11~eilcr. Don Hamerman. Fred Ahhntt. Rudy l.u. Jeff Levine. Beth Karlin . Mike Rotund1. Roh Mondschcin. Art Miller. Ton~ Romuna11i. Sue Draper. Tom Welle, Tom Ri,hop. \1ikc \1a<'' ~I \1 I I Ill'-' l'-''il I Rill Pcd. RR lh:•u. Joe CapJluccio. Fd \Ienke. Peter Sohol. Arn1c ll11ler. Fern 1-lt>mcnhall. 'lc~l A <\chv..trll. Rill fh·\'on. Bilt·Piau<. Hope f:thi;~n Dave Manning, Marshall Wisoff CONC'ORDlENSIS is published every Wednesday by the student body of Union College, Old Gym Hall, Schenectady, N.Y.; to which Postal Forms 3579 are directed. Publications Office: The Jewish World Publ~ations, 416 Smith St., Schenectady, N.Y .. 12305 (370-5483). Entered in the SchenectadJ Post Offic~ as Seco!Jd Class Matter. Subscription Rate 35 cents. per copy. $8.00 a year delivered anywheF~ in' the United States. I

1(1 11 CONCORDIENSIS, Wednesday, Feb. 18, 1976 Page 7 hot in its Therfs .:' Lh1ebacket's QJ111lJ3lrity grades, you . it. Now I come to the worst part of your letter. In it you describe D~vi~ with the following· adjecuves, \self-appointed exalted tulet,\ \mistakes are expected of d EHbott,\ \throating grade grubb\n:€(,\ and \second ~ate.\ As a person who's taken ,· !lnd given some che~tp shots, I must say that these are the 'aUt . · .. Editars, CONCORDU!:NSIS: \AU the people at this party, ·they've gut a lot of style, They've got stamps from many eountries. . · they've g()t passport smiles, Some are friendly, some are ~utting, · ... sprpe are watching it from the wings, ·.·.. ' Some are standing in the cetiter; .. ~yiqg to get something ... \ ··· ·Every time Jo11i Mitchell sings · .···. sq,tjg, i · 'think of Union ·· .. ··'·As lJisten to the words, I · ·moment at Union . . · ··~o.neiy, different, sl!:nnned.. In· my two terms . · there have been too many of tht:te moments. ; it seettrs that each day I to meet · yet another who is . trying to. act out drama· Of···oouege. Although · initial .. respoase Js :to label v:;.p!ttundes;, .. ,p.l1ony.·. is not the . ·W:•Otd .. fox ... these •. victims. : is a better expression. .l>ecause it ·appears as ~~~'\\\'\' are trying so But. •t.t~ .... :···:t·oiiih~ .. \to .. .. sh<mld be''. .oJ.lt.;.ihtoat · cumpetidon, and \'who · i ·. should •· ,he~ .is a :sellish, closed individual .· . .whu strives for an ironic happy- . future. it'S: funny h'Ow fast peQple 'lose sight :bf the ·qualities of the ptbf:ession'·they ;seek to achieve, In their searc:b ()f achieving it. f wonder ·if l'm alone in my search for a sense of community and family at Union . .Oh how I long to be a member of a group of loving ·and caring people Continued on Page 9 thanx · · cheape~t I've seen shot in public. Editors, Concordiens!s: ··· First, David was .appointed by We would like to take this last year's Committee on · opportunity to th•mk everyone mmittees to be. chairman, As, .. who helped to make the winter .. m bb~e thrqatit:~8 a,n~ gn;uf~ carnival· We extend gru · Hl~h~ , , • .. .·· . · .... l.il1ott.!~k<;~:·.Jl~i¥~ns·~ .. \' .. \'~P.'eJ>u\ll Mr. Ned ·~e·\y t e~t Ri~k. . . ... t~~(i . . .. sq.lf.po,r( ··a~4'\ ·e.fH'i.sJve ',~ . £OSP~!~t.i~!lt ~B J~,9~ .Ra,Vi~ ~~ . L ··~·· .. wbo.have helped to J.lrodui:i~ .. · .. ··• .·· Cand~et~ij;t,,dj,ijp¢r'Tot a .~l,!p~h;:~'\ jol;); ~p,;:·. P~~i§~nf · ~nd .• · Mt's~ <;. 8onn~r (Qt .fllik.l!lg .. the ~wa;-ds ,. ceremony as . spe~ial as w~ haj:f ' hoped; . to · Bob DriscJ:)u. l>rof. · · \ . Moorhead, Rand.i Gilman, and . Pete SotioJ for the time that they spent helping to coordinate and produ~;e the carnival, .And rn()st of aU, the loVing Mrs. Marraf<.n: the endless hours and inumerable things that she is cont!ntiafly doing for us. The Social Committee· Let's make next year even ,, · better, ·please bring all suggestions, criticisms . or ~pprovals about . the carn}vat to Student Activities. EditorS Concq:rdien&ist ·.••·. I am held without · bail on trumped up political charges and the victim of a Politkal Bug Job \ by the Federal Judiciary and the , ··• • internal Revenue · which, 'has ·' treasonously tampered · with ttle ,; . · election for the office o.f.P'resident ·.· ... of the U.S. lJnvit¢ . .· . · · · · · · Boycott the .. as no l~al electiotf held fqr the office qf tire u.s. .. Editors,· Colicordiensis: The 1976 Union Winter Carnival turned out to be a great weekend. ls this the type of fun Union needs or wants? Do you enjoy dances more than concerts? This is a time to speak. Social Committee has tried just about everything to please everyone at Union, but at times have felt unsuccessful - what next? - Suggestions are welcomed in Student Activities Office. Call or come in -Let's hear from you. Mts. Lorraine Marra . I J .... ~- ------~----- Opinion: Term abroad on Lenox Road by JEFF AMADO It was a dark and :.tormy night. loukt:d up at the ~k]. It v.a, still left my :.ale and secure down- threatening. hut perhaps I could campu:. dorm wondering about reach my de~tination hcfon: the the journc) ahead. I walked cloudbur>t cautiously up the path leading L'p ahead I saw the de~erted from to the :.tairs which brought :sot..:cer field flanking the htKke) me up to the level ot the rest of rmk. That v.a~ it~ I hne1\ that I'd the campus. !he wind was been up thi~ way once heftne it ho\\ ling and douds :.ped through \\a~ for a hodey game. But 11 here the sky. Would I make it before v.a~ hi~ dorm·• the torrential ram.! r\s I lcft the park mg lot and I v.alked up tov.ards Library p;mcd the hockey rinh a Pla1.a. /\:. I neared the Skeller an foothridge appeared. Ctnlid th1~ urge came mer me to seck rduge be <t tr<tp'.' IJth:~ the hndgc ha1e a in my old hangout. lhc juke ho\ false httom and v.ill I tall was playing ib Siren mdody. but through into the brook belnv.'.' I as my feet turned twoards the thought nut and ran ljUickly c\lt.:r Dutchman's hidcav.a:,. I the menacing v.oodcn ~tructure. n:mcht:red th,tt I had a J<lUrrle} Ill On the other ~ide l.t: th~.· lir:lJ complete. House. I'd heen here ont..:e hl'lure. Passing the \utt. and m too. lor a ba~kctball game. hut between the Lihrar} and Social ne1cr an) iarther than tl11~ Scit.:nces building I proceeded up towards the Sciem:c Center. J'he big new <.:(lmplex loomed ominously in the dark February night. I picked up the pace as my journey grew lonelier. Did my friend actually live somewhere he yond all thi~·) Fit her way. he wa> \\atting tor me as I turned the corner past the Sctcnce Center. !\ large. Hooded parking lot new confronted me . .1\s I piekcd m} way careful!} through the cars and tn hetween the puddles I espe~.:1all) not al\lne. I hegan It\ mi>~ tnj dorm. and v.onden:d it I v.a> c\er going to mahe it. Walking through the fidd house parking lot I sav. buildings up ahead! Could this be 1t? I walked up the hill. and v.ondcrcd hov. he eHr got 'tuck up here. Who would do it to h1m'! My v.atch sa1d that 11 v.as 4:07 11 had only taken se•en minutes to get here. I hat wasn't so had mayhc I'll even come bach aga1n sometime. union C d• • college oncor tenSIS FDITOR~-1'\ ·CHI I' I CTI fl'RI \'rws.fT \'TTR rs SPORTS I <\ YOI 'l \1Ikt· •\ffimt<'. Da\ld \1,\'-''\1' Sue· hnk~l-tem. D1ant' '\t'l,nn ·\udrn Rnth,c:hild. Sue Dr.1p~r. Chn' O'C.,nnnr CIRCl'LA 110 .... C\l <\SSIFIFD COPY Charlie Flana)!an. lnhn Ru,terud. <\lh ne l'nc:e I anc:c I ra\1' 1l'l' C.arrth.:~.·ll' Phd \k,tht', Je..,ll'r \\'~,.•1,, Shc•nl l.trhc•r Rh,•ncb Kapl.1n Shdln (i,,ld '-'tc'\c' Kc•lh .l.tck l'•tnt'\ ·\R I BI'SJ-.;JSS \1 \'·\(if R '-;I'RSCRII'IIO'\S '\;<\II0'\<\1 ·\DS CO'\T RIRI 11'\Ci fJ)IJOR 1'110 l 0 ['()II OR 1'110 I OCiR \!'II) '-I \I I lllh l'-\1 I 1111' R1kl'l Kn '\ S<h,H'. lkhh' K.11:::·:.11: CIJ!! 1 ,l!t~\\L'IIL'I. J)I'Tl H.lllll'flll.lfL f ll.'d ,:.,,,,.:· l~u<h l11. klllc·\llll' Retl:!l. ... :·n \111·.~· R.~.-tlliHIL R~·h \11llhhdw111 \·I \·1· ~·· 1 o~n\ I~ •'lll.tll.tl n. '-'uL· Dr.1pcr J .•n·. \\ .~:~· ... l\lrll Rhh1'r. \111-.~· Vo~'\' Bill Pc.-k RH lit.·\ .f,,,. Cappul'n<'. h1 \len~,·. l'etc1 <.;.,h,,L ·\rnlt· Hiller. I ern I h•mt•f1h.ttt. \\\I·\ Scll\\.1111. R,!lllc·n\\'· Rill Plart'. ll••rc I .tb1.111 t );\ L' \l,tnmn,:. \i.lr-h.tll \\ '\''1 CONf'ORDIENSIS is published every W'ednesday by the student body of Onion College, Old Gym Hall, Schenectady, N.Y.; to which Postal Forms 3579 are directed. Publications Office: The Jewish World Publitations, 416 Smith St., Schenectady, N.Y. 12305 (370-5483). Entered in the Schenectady Post Office as Secord ('lass Matter. Subscription Rate 35 cents per copy. $!tOO a year delivered anywhe~o:? in' the t'nited States.

\ Page8 CONCORDIENSIS, Wednesday, Feb. 18, 1976 .The library tapes: Jews • Ill Pre- WWII Europe Professor Stephen Rerk of the History Department and Lucille Brown. Assistant Cataloguer in Shaffer I.ihrary. are presently engaged in a new form of historical research. They are attempting to view the history of Central and Fastern European Jews from World · War I to II through the eyes of the common person. Conversations with Jews who lived in Central and Eastern Europe during that time have heen taped by Prof. Berk and Ms. Brown. Thev are now transcribing these 'tapes in an effort to obtain some themes and ideas prevalent in this group of people. This project is a result of Ms. Brown's participation in Prof. Berks' Modern Jewish History class. Her parents survived the Russian Civil War while they were living in the Ukraine. She stated, \I want my children to know the history of these people, who are important to· my life.\ When approached by Ms. Brown to do an oral study of these people, Prof. Berk was very enthusiastic: Jews who livet} in Central Europe during the time period are the parents of many of the American Jews. Prof. Berk remarked, \This is the cradle of American Jews. and a study of these people will help to explain by CLARENCE IRA VIS IV the customs and attitudes of Jews in the U.S. today.\ After receiving a $4000 grant from the Awards Committee of the Union College Humanities Faculty Development Fund. the two were ahle to get started. Berk and Ms. Brown have now interviewed thirty-five people in an attempt to reconstruct Jewish life in Europe. The interviewed have ranged from rich urban dwellers to poorer peasants. Eventually the two researchers would lik~ to interview up to 100 people. All these people are presently living in the United States. Questions which have been posed to interviewees have dealt with Zionism, WWI, Nazism and the world depression. The theme of the interviews usually concerned the process by which a minority can assimilate into a sometimes hostile majority. \The degree of antJ-semJtlsm varied so much from one area to the next that we are finding little ground for generalizations,\ stated Prof. Berk. h1 the large cities. many of the people were able to assimilate into the prevailing culture and experienced very little anti- semitism: this was not, however, true of all areas. One lady in the Ukraine during the Russian ,Civil Stirred-up Senate Continued from Page I undermining of good class relationships. One student added that even though certain faculty would ignore the rule, consideration must be given to the non-smokers. After voting to pass the rule, another vote was taken on a proposal that would ·eliminate smoking from all classes. Passed 14 to 6, the rule will be effective starting spring term. No Athletic Representation The proposal which would have permanently placed !I member of the Athletics Dept. on the Admissions Committee was called _by Admission Director Jay Shupe, \a legitimitized proceedure\ substituting for the \covert\ practices of the past. Seeing \no advantages or disadvantages\ in Athletic representation, Shupe concluded that he was in favor of formalizi'ng their input. In response to this ambivalence, Prof. Daniels said, \No justification or rationale\ in favor of the proposition. Division ll's Prof. Finkelstein deemed the proposal, \ill-advised counter productive, and mischievous,\ adding that \no department should be given a vested position on the Admissions Committee.\ The proposal was subsequently defeated by a large margin. Town nteeting Continued from Page 1 trimester calendar by Paul Corwin and Andy Koblenz. Paul stated, \A person is not afraid to try courses outside his major because he knows he ' will only have to endure it for ten weeks,\ to be one of the benefits of the 3-3-3. He went on to say only three courses allowed for much more concentration for each one, and standardization of terms allowed for easy scheduling of terms abroad and relative ease in adding extra classes for a term. The status quo would also allow professors to retain the way they divide their material for presentation. Andy Koblenz divided the problems of the trimester into structural and theoretical ones. Structural problems include late start and finish, difficulty in exchange with other colleges, and time for a minimal amount of tests. Andy said, ''The competition becomes very intense due to the short semester, causing little time between tests and papers,\ as an example of a theoretical problem. 374-5921 GEORGE'S MUSIC STORE Student Discounts 508 State St. Schenect~dy. Questions and discussion were carried on by those attending. The Forum held a vote to determine the sentiment of the small sample of the College in attendance in regard to the calendar. The vote was 24 to 16 against changing the present system. Student Trustee Chris Taylor gave a brief description of the upcoming Arts Symposium. It was the feeling of some of the students that the reason for lack of interest in arts is due to the fact that the arts are not treated seriously by some faculty members. The Forum was asked to consider ways to make the arts more visible on campus. General discussion followed, with many students airing gripes about many facets of the College. ·FERRO'S PHARMACY 'STUDENT DISCOUNT .515NoUSt. 37'7-Mll. 346-t3l9 War said. \We used to look at the dop:s with envy.\ Prof Berk did explain that \people there sometimes accepted things as normal. such as being called a 'dirty Jew' and did not consider thi~ really to be anti-Semitism.\ In fact. many claim to have left Europe more for economic reasons then as a result of harassment. Problems have arisen during this project. The transcription of tapes is a lengthy process. It has been undertaken voluntarily by Robyn Kat7. '74. The actual interviewing is difficult as well because. as Ms. Brown remarked. \YoN have to remember these are people. not numbers. you are dealing with.\ The interviewers have had to work to gain the trust of the people and obtain conclusive informati<:m without becoming too personal. Professor Stephen Berk is engaged in a study of the history ofpre-WWII Jews. Pub forntat expl_ained The opening of the Dutch Hollow has been guaranteed for winter term. The general manager. Angelo Mazzone, states that he is hoping for a March 5 or 6 Grand Opening. The Dutch Hollow is a school- run endeavor from which ail financial assets will be dir-ected back into the Student Center and/ or the Pub itself. Mazzone sees the Skeller, Hale House, aud West as competitors for the new Pub( Restaurant. He will, he says, be serving quality food at what are expected to be somewhat higher prices. The Hollow was created as an alternative eating establishment by AUDREY ROTHSCHILD on the Union College Campus. It will hold no more than 160-200 people at a time. The decor will be rustic and the sounds of mellow steFeo music and folk singers on Tuesday, Friday, and Saturday nights are hoped to create a quiet mood in which students and faculty can eat together. In addition to separate eating tables. the facility offers a bar and stools where mixed drinks will be served from 4:30 pm until closing at midnight. The drinks will be served by cocktail waitresses on Tuesday, Friday and Saturday nights. and there are plans for frequent 8 pm to 9 Kubrick scores Continued from Page 5 sever~! critics have noted. he is a more with editing and frame composition than with acting. Take, for example, the sequence in which Barry sees his first love dancing with another man. Kubrick suggests his jealousy by intercutting shots of the girl with medium closeups of Barry's blank face. No real acting is involved; the director gets his point across just manipulating pieces of film. Some have attacked this picture on the frounds that it lacks a message. But Kubrick apparently does not want Barry Lyndon to be a terribly profound picture. He merely wants to give his audience three hours of visual and aural pieasure. And he succeeds brilliantly. Indeed, Barry Lyndon is such a good movie precisely because of this limited aim. It is not marreJ by the incoherent metaphysics of 2001 or the simpleminded sociology of A Clockwork Orange. Perhaps Stanley Kubrick has finally learned that despite his considerable talents as a filmmaker, he cannot make it as a philosopher. If he sticks to story- telling and avoids the intellectual crapola, he may yet earn that place in the pantheon to which so many critics have already assigned him. Get out your Bobby Socks, Leather Jackets, Brylcream, and Get Ready to Rock N' Roll Union College will see the 1950's once again next Thursday night with the help of Sha ... Na-Na. The street gang turned singers equipped with grease and their own set of wheels are going to show us that .... \ROCK N' ROLL\ IS HERE TO STAY!! pm Happy Hours, and Tequila and Jack Daniels nights. Students and faculty interested in wines will be able to make selections from a wine list. From Monday to Saturday, continental breakfast will be served from 9 to 10 am. Lunch will be served daily from 11 am to 1:30 pm, dinner from 5~7:30 prn. Drinks and snacks will be served from 8 pm to midnight. Sunday Brunch is planned from II am to 2 pm. The time span between lunch and dinner can be used by students who want to sit and talk over coffee, snacks, and sandwiches. The specifics regarding the menu have not been settled but tentative proposals have included lunch selections of clam rolls, fish fries. steak sandwiches. and vegetable plates. Dinner may include such selections as chicken. steak. hamburgers, and fish, and specialty nights will offer buffets and Italian food. The framework has been set up but a good deal is still undecided. The fine details will be worked out as the organizers of the Hollow begin to learn what the students and faculty really want. It is hoped that the students will involve themselves in this new Union College addition. Those with problems should see Angelo Mazzone in Silliman Hall. Summer Round Trip! NY to London; $265. Must reserve 65 days In advance; Call toll free (800) 151- 6327. Nova Charter Corp., •Ithaca. NY. MADISON'S TYPING SERVICE • Reports • Manuscripts • Thesis • Resumes Prompt Service Reasonable Rates 433' Liberty St. 372-5841 Schenectady FOB.UQUOR AND WINE Try Mother Ferro's-Restaurant. EARLY BIRD SPECIALS Jdce Lipstein's 464 State Street ., ..... ·(Monday-Sunday- II AM-6 PM) Baked Lasagna with Meat Sauce In Casserole -Reg. $3.75 BIP;ed Eggplant.;Pannesan with Spaghetd - Reg. S4.95.0nly Sl.95 Spaghetti and Meatballs - Reg. $1~85 Only $1.85 Veal Cutlet with Spaghetti- Reg. 54.25 Only 53.25 Plus ·other Specials Open 7 Days a Week , .. U15 Barrett St. ,. \' a c ~ \' = \' '< !\' = \ '• ,' ) ! I .. I , t \. ,., I ?· l \' I, .. ~ ', l ~ ~' } i. I' I ' I }. } ~· ·. t:' I ). ) } i I ), j i l

Page 8 CONCORDIENSIS, Wednesday, Feb. 18, 1976 The library tapes: . - Jews .. Ill Pre-WWII Europe l'rofes;-or Stephen Rcrk nf the 11 i'tnn lkpaitrnent ~rnd I ucille Br•''' n. \\i't;rnt Cat~tl,,~u,·r in Sh~i!ler I ihrar\. :rrL' rre,cnth l'll l.!a)-:ed rn :1 Ill'\\ form <11. hht<'nclf IL''c:rrch. lhe~ :ne :rttcmptin~ tn liL'\\ the hi,tPI\\ of CL·ntral and fa,t~:rn Furnpean k11' trnm \\'orld War I to II throtwh the eves of the cnmnwn rer'n~. Com-nsation' 1\ith .Je\\S '' hP li1ed in Central and F:1,tcrn furope durin!! that time hme he en taped hv Prof. Berk and ~vh. Rro11 n. Thev are now tran..;crihin!! thl\il' ·tape·, in an effort to ohta in o;ome theme' and ideas rrevalent in thi-; group of reople. Thio; project is a result of Ms. Brown's participation in Prof. Berks' Modern Jcwi:-.h History clas'\. Her parents survived the Rmo;ion Civil War whi;le they 1•:ere living in the l 1 kraine. She stated, '\I want my children to know the history of these people. who are important to my life.\ When approached hy Ms. Brown to do an oral study of these people. Prof. Berk was very enthusiastic: Jews who live~ in Central Europe during the time period are the parents of many of the American Jews. Prof. Berk remarked. \This is the cradle of American Jews. and a study of these people will help to explain uy n.ARENCE TRAVIS IV the t'll'tPrn' and attitude\ (lf .lei\'' rn rhe 1· S tndav.\ 1\fter ,._,,·,·r\ in!\ :r 'l;4000 1-!Tant from the \\\,lflh c .. mmittl'l' nf the l'ninn ('\Jlq.!L' llumanitie' Facult1· DeH•IormL·nt Fund. the t\ln \\en~ ahk t11 ~et 'tar ted Bnkand \h. Rrn\\nha\c nnw interlil'\\L'd thirt\-fiw people in an atkrnpt to recnn,truct .lewi>h life in Furope. The intcrvicl\ed ha \l' ranged from rich urhan d\\elJer, to poorer peasants. Fwntuallv the two researchers would lik~ to intcnin\ up to 100 reorle. J\11 these people are pre-,ently li\ inr in the United States. Queo.;tiono.; which ha1e heen poo.;ed to interl'iewee~ ha1e dealt with Zionism. WWI. !\'a1ism and the world depression. The theme of the interviews usually concerned the process hy which a minority can assimilate into a sometimes hostile majority. 'The degree of anti-semitism varied so much from one area to the next that we are finding little ground for g:enerali1ations.\ stated Prof. Berk. lr1 the large cities. many of the people were ahle to assimilate into the prevailing: culture and experienced very little anti- semitism: this was not, however. true of all areas. One lady in the Ukraine during the Russian Civil Stirred-up Senate Continued from Page I undermining of good class relationships. One student added that even though certain faculty would Ignore the rule, consideration must be given to the non-smokers. After voting to pass the rule, another vote was taken on a proposal that would eliminate smoking from all classes. Passed 14 to 6, the rule will be effective starting spring term. No Athletic Representation The proposal which would have permanently placed a member of the Athletics Dept. on the Admissions Committee was called by Admission Director Jay Shupe, \a legitimiti1ed proceedure\ substituting for the \covert\ practices of the past. Seeing \no advantages or disadvantages\ in Athletic representation, Shupe concluded that he was in favor of formalizing their input. In response to this ambivalence, Prof. Daniels said, \No justification or rationale\ in favor of the proposition. Division I I's Prof. Finkelstein deemed the proposal, \ill-advised counter productive, and mischievous,\ adding that \no department should be given a vested position on the Admissions Committee.\ The proposal was subsequently defeated by a large margin. Town n1eeting Continued from Page I trimester calendar by Paul Corwin and Andy Koblenz. Paul stated, \A person is not afraid to try courses outside his major because he knows he ' will only have to endure it for ten weeks,\ to be one of the benefits of the 3-3-3. He went on to say only three courses allowed for much more concentration for each one, and standardization of terms allowed for easy scheduling of terms abroad and relative ease in adding extra classes for a term. The status quo would also allow professors to retain the way they divide their material for presentation. Andy Koblenz divided the problems of the trimester into structural and theoretical ones. Structural problems include late start and finish, difficulty in exchange with other colleges, and time for a minimal amow1t of tests. Andy said, \The competition becomes very intense dur to the short semester, causing little time between tests and papers,\ as an example of a theoretical problem. 374-5921 GEORGE'S MUSIC STORE Student Discounts 508 State St. Schenectady Questions and discussion were carried on by those attending. The Forum held a vote to determine the sentiment of the small sample of the College in attendance in regard to the calendar. The vote was 24 to 16 against changing the present system. Student Trustee Chris Taylor gave a brief description of the upcoming Arts Symposium. It was the feeling of some of the students that the reason for lack of interest in arts is due to the fact that the arts are not treated seriously by some faculty members. The Forum was asked to consider ways to make the arts more visible oa campus. General discussion followed, with many students airing gripes about many facets of the College. ·FERRO'S PHARMACY •sTUDENT DISCOUNT . 575 Nott St. 3'77..811 ~ War said. \We u~ed to look at tlw do).!s 1\ith l'TI\\'' Prof Berk drd L'\plain that \rcople there 'nmetime' accepted thinf!s as normal. 'uch a\ heinp: called a 'dirt\ .lew' and did not consider thi~ reallv to be anti-Semitism.\ ln fact. niam clmm to haw left Furore morr for econ(1mi·c rL':ts<ln'i then <IS a I'C\lllt of haras,rncnt. l'rohkms ha~e arisen during thi' project. The transcription of tape\ i> a lengthy proce'is. It has heen undertaken 1·oluntaril\ hy R<lh\n Katz. '74. The actual intcniel\ inp: i:-. difficult as well hl'ca use. as Ms. Brown remarked. \You have to rerncmher these are people. not numhero;. you are dealing: 1\ith.\ The intervie11ers have had to work to gain the trust of the people and ohtain conclusive information without hecoming too personal. Professor Stephen Berk is engaged in a study of the history ojpre-WWII Jews. Pub for~nat expl.ained The opening of the Dutch Hollow has heen guaranteed for winter term. The genera I manager. Angelo Manone, states that he is hoping for a March 5 or 6 Grand Opening. The Dutch Hollow is a school- run endeavor from which all financial assets will he directed hack into the Student Center and/ or the Pub itself. Mazzone sees the Skeller. Hale House, and West as competitors for the new Pub/Restaurant. He will, he says. he serving quality food at what are expected to he somewhat higher prices. The Hollow was created as an alternative eating establishment by AUDREY ROTHSCHILD on the Union C'olleg:e Campus. It will hold no more than 160-200 people at a time. The decor will he rustic and the sounds of mellow stereo music and folk singers on Tuesday. Friday, and Saturday nights are hoped to create a quiet mood in which students and faculty can eat together. In addition to separate eating tables, the facility offers a bar and stools where mixed drinks will be served from 4:30 pm until closing at midnight. The drinks will be served by cocktail waitresses on Tuesday. Friday and Saturday nights. and there are plans for frequent 8 pm to 9 Kubrick scores Continued from Page 5 sever~! critics have noted. he is a more with editing and frame composition than with acting. Take, for example, the sequence in which Barry sees his first love dancing with another man. Kubrick suggests his jealousy by intercutting shots of the girl with medium eloseups of Barry's blank face. No real acting is involved; the director gets his point across just manipulating pieces of film. Some have attacked this picture on the frounds that it lacks a message. But Kubrick apparently does not want Barry Lyndon to be a terribly profound picture. He merely wants to give his audience three hours of visual and aural pleasure. And he succeeds brilliantly. Indeed, Barry Lyndon is such a good movie precisely because of this limited aim. It is not marreJ by the incoherent metaphysics of 2001 or the simpleminded sociology of A Clockwork Orange. Perhaps Stanley Kubrick has finally learned that despite his considerable talents as a filmmaker, he cannot make it as a philosopher. If he sticks to story- telling and avoids the intellectual crapola, he may yet earn that place in the pantheon to which so many critics have already assigned him. Get out your Bobby Socks, Leather Jackets, Brylcrearn, and Get Ready to Rock N' Roll Union College will see the 1950's once again next Thursday night with the help of Sha-Na-Na. The street gang turned singers equipped with grease and their own set of wheels are going to show us that .... \ROCK N' ROLL\ IS HERE TO STAY!! pm Happy Hours. and Tequila and Jack Daniels nights. Students and faculty interested in wines will he able to make selections from a wine list. From Monday to Saturday, continental breakfast will be served from 9 to 10 am. Lunch will he served dailv from II am to 1:30 pm, dinner f;om 5-7:30 pm. Drinks and snacks will he served from 8 pm to midnight. Sunday Brunch is planned from II am to 2 pm. The time span between lunch and dinner can be used by students who want to sit and talk over coffee. snacks, and sandwiches. The specifics regarding the menu have not been settled but tentative proposals have included lunch selections of clam rolls. fish fries. steak sandwiches. and veg:etahle plates. Dinner may include such selections as chicken, steak. hamburgers. and fish. and specialty nights will offer buffets and Italian food. The framework has heen set up hut a good deal is still undecided. The fine details will be worked out as the organi7ers of the H oil ow begin to learn what the students and faculty really want. It is hoped that the students will involve themselves in this new llninn C'ollef!e addition. Those with problems should see Angelo Maz1one in Silliman Hall. Summer Round Trip! NY to London; $265. Must reserve 65 days in advance; Call toll free (800) 252· 6327. Nova Charter Corp., ·Ithaca, NY. MADISON'S TYPING SERVICE • Reports • Manuscripts • Thesis • Resumes Prompt Service Reasonable Rates 433' Liberty St. 372-5841 Schenectady FOR UQUOR AND WINE Try Mother Ferro's -Restaurant EARLY BIRD SPECIALS kJce Lipstein's 464 State Stnet , ...• ·(Monday-Sunday-. II AM-6 PM) Baked Lasagna with Meat Sauce In Casserole -Reg. $3.75 B~Jked Eggplant., Parmesan with Spaghetti - Reg. 54.95 ODiy $2.9S Spaghetti and Meatballs - Reg. Sl.85 Only $1.85 Veal Cutlet with Spaghetti - Reg. $4.25 Only $3.25 Plus Other Specials Open 7 Days a Week . .. 1115 Barrett St.

ights. ted in make be am to prn. to ed by talk and the but rol1s, , and may as • and will up the the want. s will new ngelo In . j I ., I . '' .. t ' ' . . ) ' ) I CONC{JRDIENSIS, Wednesday, Feb. 18, 1976 Page 9 Calendar ' . . ' . ~ ' - ' ' . ' . - ~ . - ' . ' ' . . ' Th.urs., February 19 Tel Aviv String Quarter, Hinclemith, Mozart, Brahms, · 8:30, Memorial Chapel Jack Clark, Nationa·l Secretary of the Democratic Socialist Organizing Committee will give a socialist analysis of today's issues. 7:00, p.m., Social Sciences 115 Biomedical Engineering, an overview by Mr. Charles S c h a e,f e r , D i r e c t o r o f Biomedical Electronics at Albany Medical CoHege. Refreshments will be served. 7:30 p.m., Hale House lower lounge Varsity Bask~tball, Union vs. Trinity under the Big Top at 8:00 Scott Alarik, 8:30, Mother's Wine Emporium, RPI, Troy. If you liked him here you'll like him there. · Cabaret: The music of :Paul Simon, performed by Les \Hi lounge.\Everyone is invited and wine and cheese will be served. Old time Movies at the Re~thskeller from 8-12 p.m. Pitchers $1.00, Free popcorn and peanuts. · Last day of Grand Opening week at Food for Thoughts in Hale House from 9-1 a.m. Buy one sub, get a second at half price. Art Symposium interview led by Jeanne Neumann with Professor Hans Freund, English Dept. WRUC F.M. at 7:30. Pre-law Society, a pallel discussion in .Fox lounge at 4:30, with representatives from Schenectady Co.unty Department of Probation . Volleyball Match vs. Albany State (men's). 8:30, Alumni Gym. This is the Volleyball Club's first home match and the team is seeking to avenge aR earlier loss to Albahy State. Come out and support them. Fri., February 20 Guys'' Goldstein and John College, with Buster Keaton, \Nood\ Knudsen. Shows at 9:00 sponsored by P.R. Committee, and 11:00 p.m. 8:00 p.m., SS016 The 'Psychology Department · Godspell, 8:30 p.m., Palace in conjunction with the Theater, Albany. 465-3333 PI ace m. en t a n d C a r e e r A Star Is Born, Frederic Counseling office, will offer a March, 2 p.m., Schenectady panel discussion on \Mental County Public Library. 382-3500 Health and Human Service Scott Alarik, 8:30, Mother's Professions.,.. 4:30, Strauss Wine Emporium, RPI, Troy Last days Continued from Page 6 are smart enough to stay alive. We'll try to take .it as it comes. Some of us will throw it in, but some of us will make it. Michael Cooney, one-man folk festival, 8:30, Caffe lena, 47 Phila Street, Saratoga, 584-9789. The Elephant Calf, Student Theatrical Production, directed by Steve Solomon. Director's Lab Theatre, 8:30 p.m. Big Rat Day at the Skeller. Big Rats-85¢, Conocups-75¢. All day long. Student-fa·culty Get Together, Davidson Co-op Lounge, 4:00, beer, wine, soda, cheese and munchies will be served. Sat., February 21 Film Committee presents Blazing Saddles, admission $1.00, at 7, 9 and 11 ifl SS016. Flying Dutchmen skate against Elmira at 8:00 in Achilles Rink Sco.tt Alarik, 8:30, Mother's Wine Emporium, RPI, Troy Michael Cooney, one-man folk festival, 8:30, Caffe lena, 47 Phila St., Saratoga, 584-9789 WRUC-AM leukemia Radiothon, starting at 10 a.m. and running until 9 p.m. Sunday night. Sun., February 22 Film Committee presents Blazing Saddles at 7, 9, 11 p.m. in SS016. Admission is $1.00 It may even be that one day will reach in the trunk and pull out the old degree ~ hold it up to some fellow's face with fond memories of the basement of Humanities and the Xerox machine, and say, .. Give them a call if you don't believe me.\ YOU ST So how do you feel about getting out? We are all going, sooner or later. Union's Pre-law society win. be sponsoring .an informative pand discussion ·i\his' Thursday, Feb~uary 19 at 4:3'0 in Fox: Lounge. Representatives from the Schenectady County Department of Probation will . reflect upon thei.· role in the judicial process. ANSWERED A HELP WANTEDADI=OR 'YOUR OWN JOB. 4AYBE WHAT YOU NEED IS A MAXIMUS SUPER. Maxtmurt Super Beer. F. X. Matt '8rewtnw Co., lJtlce, N.Y. IJarry Miles and Silverlight, London recording artists, 8 p.m. Ramada Inn Michael Cooney, one-man folk festival, 8:30, Caffe Lena, 47 Phila St., Saratoga. 584-9789 Kevin Rielly, old-time .traditional folk, 8 p.m., The \Rafters opposite SUNYA gym. Free. 489-8573 The j.C.S., Union's new Jewish interest group, hosts its first program; a brunch followed by a film and discussion on American jewish Identity. 12:00, Strauss Lounge. Mon .. , February 23 Pinball TouJnament starts at the Rathskeller, 7-10 p.m. Intellectual Cabaret, Union CoHege: Prospective and Projection. led by Gail Chatman, Judy Dein, Willard Enteman and Charles Gati, who is chairman of the Faculty Committee. Everyone, including faculty, is urged to attend. 8:30 in the Cabaret. Free Refreshments. WRUC General Meeting for election of executive board members, 7:30, SS016 Tues., February 24 Ms. Susan Smilely, sculpturing candidate for the Arts Dept. will lecture on Sculpturing Arts, Room 202, 4-5 p.m. Arts Symposium Interview led by Jeanne Neumann with Professor Bar.ry Smith, Arts Dept. WRUC at 7:30. Pinball Tourney continues at the Skeller, 7-10 p.m. Cabaret: Helena Binder and her band. Freddy Simon - raconteur- Shows at 9 and 11 p.m. Tickets on sale at 8:00 in Carnegie. Note the change in days. - - Wed., February 25 William Bailey, former Dean of. the Arts at Yale University, will speak in SS016 at 4:30. Faculty presentations at 6:30 p.m. in SS016. 1) Profs. Arnold Bittleman and Mark Smith, \Liberal Art\ 2) Prof. Ed Craig, \Engineering and the Arts\ 3) Prof. Hans Freund, \Problems in Art Education\ Refreshments will be on hand. Discussion groups led by student and faculty facilitators starting at 8:30 at various locations around campus. Game Night in the Cabaret: 9-1 a.m. Note the change in day. WRUC WINTER TERM 1976 SUNDAY 9:00 a.m.-1:00 p.m. 1:00-3:00 3:00-6:00 6:00-8:00 8:00-11:00 11:00 p.ni.-2:00 a.m. 12:00 noon-1:00 p.m. 1:00-3:00 6:00-8:00 . 8:00-11 :00 II :00-2:00 a.m. 12:00 noon-3:00p.m. 3:00-6:00 6:00-8:00 8:00-11:00 II :00-2:00 a.m. 12:00 noon-3:00 p.m. 3:00-6:00 6:00-8:00 8:00-11:00 II :00-2:00 a.m. 12:00 noon-3:00p.m. 3:00-6:00 6:00-8:00 8:00~11:00 II :00-2:00 a.m. 12:00 noon-2:00p.m. 2:00-5:00 5:00-6:00 6:00-8:00 8:00-ll:OO 11 :00-2:00 a.m. 12:00 noon-3:00 p.m. 3:00-6:00 6:00-8:00 8:00 p.m.-2:00 a.m. CHARLES SOMMER RUTH RAPPAPORT JON HARDEE BRIAN HEAPS JUDY SILVERBERG JIM ·1 HOMAS MONDAY CHUCK SOMMER RUTH RAPPAPORT AUDREY ROTHSCHILD JOYCE FARLEY ROY ZUCKERBERG TUESDAY LANCE BOBROW DAVE BRAD LEE GARY DRYFOOS DAN ROSENBAUM MIKE ROBERTS WEDNESDAY BOB KASLOVSKY ROY ZUCKERBERG DAVE BRAD LEE SCOTT GLASS TONY MERRILL THURSDAY MIKE LARSON BRIAN SMART NEAL ADAM SCHWARTZ ELI PORTNOY GARY DRYFOOS FRIDAY CHUCK SOMMER MIKE LARSON WEEKEND SPECIAL MARK SHNITKIN SURPRIZE ROT A TION STEVE BLONSKY SATURDAY BETH HELLMERS RAPH DAVIS BRIAN SMART NEAL ADAM SCHWARTZ The Psychology Department personnel services, high school student representatives. Irene guidance counseling and social' Cloney and Gary Myszkowski, in work. conjunction with the Placement Panel members will not only and Career Office. will offer a give a brief talk on the academic panel discussion on \Mental preparation and qualifications Health and Human Service necessary for their jobs but will Professions\. This event will take also describe the day-to-day place at 4:30 on Thursday, Feb. aspects of their work. Students 19th in ?trauss Lounge, Carnegie will have a chance to ask HaiL Panel members will questions concerning their repre·sent a variety of fields interests and investigate their including counseling and clinical possible pos,t-graduate careers. psychology; special education, AU interested students are invited rehabilitation counseling, student and urged to attend. Wine and cheese will ~e served.

ghts. ed in make be to pm. to ween by talk and the but rolls, and may as and will up the the will new in St. I ' CONCORD!ENS!S, Wednesday, Feb. 18, 1976 Page 9 Calendar Thurs., February 19 Tel Aviv Shing Quarter, Hindemith, Mozart, Brahms, 8:30, Memorial Chapel jack Cla~k, National Secretary of the Democratic Socialist Organizing Committee will give a socialist analysis of today's issues. 7:00p.m., Social Sciences 115 Biomedical Engineering, an overview by Mr. Charles Schaefer, Director of Biomedical Electronics at Albany Medical College. Refreshments will be served. 7:30 p.m., Hale House Lower Lounge Varsity Basketball, Union vs. Trinity under the Big Top at 8:00 Scott Alarik, 8:30, Mother's Wine Emporium, RPI, Troy. If you liked him here you'll like him there. Cabaret: The music of Paul Simon, performed by Les \Hi Guys\ Coldstein and John \Nood\ Knudsen. Shows at 9:00 and 11:00 p.m. The Psychology Department in conjunction with the Placement and Career Counseling office, will offer a panel discussion on \Mental Health and Human Service Professions.'' 4:30, Strauss Lounge. Everyone is invited and wine and cheese wil'l be served. Old time Movies at the Rathskeller from 8-12 p.m. Pitchers $1.00, Free popcorn and peanuts. last day of Grand Opening week at Food for Thoughts in Hale House from 9-1 a.m. Buy one sub, get a second at half price. Art Symposium interview led by Jeanne Neumann with Professor Hans Freund, English Dept. WRUC F.M. at 7:30. Pre-taw Society, a panel discussion in Fox Lounge at 4:30, with representatives from Schenectady County Department of Probation. Volleyball Match vs. Albany State (rmen's). 8:30, Alumni Gym. This is the Volleyball Club's first home match and the team is seeking to avenge an earlier loss ~o Albany State. Come out and support them. Fri., February 20 College, with Buster Keaton, sponsored by P.R. Committee, 8:00 p.m., SS016 Godspell, 8:30 p.m., Palace Theater, Albany. 465-3333 A Star Is Born, Frederic March, 2 p.m., Schenectady County Public Library. 382-3500 Scott Alarik, 8:30, Mother's Wine Emporium, RPI, Troy LETIERS f • d t t h d As for the second rate crack., r&en · · 0 ·. · 8 en I've known David since Junior High School and have found him a first rate person. A bright one who has succeeded academically money, right and left to anyone as well as socially. I doubt you've who wanted it. The whole had much contact with him. But committee, Larry Fein, R.B. of course, it must have been Thau, Arnie Hiller, Paul Boyd, enough for you to so viciously and Dave all spent long hours malign him in front of the student trying to get an overblown budget body. T 0 argue a policy decision into reasonable shape. It was the is one thing, Bill, to personally first organizational .effort ever attack people who are involved in attempted by a Tax. Committee, this school and are trying to do flawed probably, but necessary. their best is another. Cheap, Bill, Those long h~urs could have ~een very cheap. Perhaps one day you spent . dOing something might want to meet Dave, the wo!thwhtle for them rather than grade grubbing, second rate ~rymg to see th.at your seventy . throat of 1st floor Fox (151). You . ftve doll~rs went m the areas they turn a nice phrase, Bill, and I'm thought It was most needed. sad to see you channel your Last days Continued from Page 6 are smart enough to stay alive. We'll try to take it as it comes. Some of us will throw it in, but some of us will make it. talents to attack vour fellow Michael Cooney, one-man folk festival, 8:30, Caffe Lena, 47 Phila Street, Saratoga, 584-9789. The Elephant Calf, Student Theatrical Production, directed by Steve Solomon. Director's Lab Theatre, 8:30 p.m. Big Rat Day at the Skeller. Big Rats-85¢, Conocups-75¢. All day long. Student-Faculty Get Together, Davidson Co-op Lounge, 4:00, beer, wine, soda, cheese and munchies will be served. Sat., February 21 Film Committee presents Blazing Saddles, admission $1.00, at 7, 9 and 11 in SS016. Flying Ouh:hmen skate against Elmirra at 8:00 in Achilles Rink Scott Alarik, 8:30, Mother's Wine Emporium, RPI, Troy Michael Cooney, one-man folk festival, 8:30, Caffe Lena, 47 Phila St., Saratoga, 584-9789 WRUC-AM Leukemia Radiothon, starting at 10 a.m. and running until 9 p.m. Sunday night. Sun.~ February 22 Film Committee presents Blazing Saddles at 7, 9, 11 p.m. in SS016. Admission is $1.00 students on a personal level. It's not an admirable quality. · Sincerely, Matt Brief lonely optimist instead of merely an enrolled student in an institution of higher learning. I hope that we might all look around and see the warm and beautiful people in ourselves and others. I wish that we might each extend ourselves a little to say hil to a stmnger or classmate, or take a walk and not talk of studies. Simply, I would like to see us all become people instead of merely students. I'll keep trying, but I wonder if anyone else wilL The travels of an optimist are lonely times ... Sincerely, Diana Leyden It may even be that one day will reach in the trunk and pull out the old degree - hold it up to some fellow's face with fond memories of the basement of Humanities and the Xerox machine, and say, \Give them a call if you don't believe me.\ So how do you feel about getting out'? We are all going, sooner or later. Union's Pre-law society wilt be sponsoring an informative panel discussion .t'his Thursday, February 19 at 4:30 YOU JUST ANS.REDA HELP WANTED AD FOR 'YOUR OWN JOB. in Fox Lounge. Representatives from the Schenectady County Department of Probation will reflect upon theh· role in the judicial process. ~AYBE WHAT YOU NEED IS A MAXIMUS SUPER. Maxlmuu Super Beer. F. X. Melt Brewing Co, Utica, N Y. Barry Miles and Silverlight, London recording artists, 8 p.m. Ramada Inn Ms. Susan Smilely, sculpturing candidate for the Arts Dept. will lecture on Sculpturing Arts, Room 202, 4-5 p.m. Michael Cooney, one-man folk festival, 8:30, Caffe Lena, 47 Phila St., Saratoga. 584-9789 Arts Symposium Interview led by Jeanne Neumann with Professor Barry Smith, Arts Dept. WRUC at 7:30. Kevin Rielly, old-time traditional folk, 8 p.m., The 'Rafters, opposite SUNYA gym. Free. 489-8573 Pinball Tourney continues at the Skeller, 7-10 p.m. The J.C.S., Union's new jewish interest group, hosts its first program; a brunch followed by a film and discussion on American Jewish Identity. 12:00, Strauss lounge. Mon.~ February 23 Pinball Tournament starts at the Rathskeller, 7-10 p.m. Intellectual Cabaret, Union College: Prospective and Projection. Led by Gail Chatman, Judy Dein, Willard Enteman and Charles Gati, who is chairman of the Faculty Committee. Everyone, including faculty, is urged to attend. 8:30 in the Cabaret. Free Refreshments. WRUC General Meeting for election of executive board members, 7:30, SS016 Tues., February 24 Cabaret: Helena Binder and her band. Freddy Simon - raconteur- Shows at 9 and 11 p.m. Tickets on sale at 8:00 in Carnegie. Note the change in days. Wed., February 25 William Bailey, former Dean of the Arts at Yale University, will speak in SS016 at 4:30. Faculty presentations at 6:30 p.m. in SS016. 1) Profs. Arnold Bittleman and Mark Smith, \Liberal Art\ 2) Prof. Ed Craig, \Engineering and the Arts\ 3) Prof. Hans Freund, \Problems in Art Education\ Refreshments will be on hand. Discussion groups led by student and faculty facilitators starting at 8:30 at various locations around campus. Game Night in the Cabaret: 9-1 a.m. Note the change in day. WRUC WINTER TERM 1976 SUNDAY 9:00 a.m.-1 :00 p.m. 1:00-3:00 3:00-6:00 6:00-8:00 R:00-11 :00 II :00 p.m.-2:00a.m. CHARLES SOMMER RUTH RAPPAPORT JON HARDEE BRIAN HEAPS JUDY SILVERBERG JIM I HOMAS MONDAY 12:00 noon-! :00 p.m. 1:00-3:00 6:00-8:00 8:00-11:00 II :00-2:00 a.m. CHUCK SOMMER RUTH RAPPAPORT AUDREY ROTHSCHILD JOYCE FARLEY ROY ZUCKERBERG TUESDAY 12:00 noon-3:00p.m. 3:00-6:00 6:00-8:00 8:00-11:00 II :00-2:00 a.m. LANCE BOBROW DAVE BRADLEE GARY DRYFOOS DAN ROSENBAUM MIKE ROBERTS WEDNESDAY 12:00 noon-3:00 p.m. 3:00-6:00 6:00-8:00 8:00-11:00 II :00-2:00 a.m. BOB KASLOVSK Y ROY ZUCKERBERG DAVE BRADLEE SCOTT GLASS TONY MERRILL THURSDAY 12:00 noon-3:00 p.m. 3:00-6:00 6:00-8:00 8:00-11:00 II :00-2:00 a.m. MIKE LARSON BRIAN SMART NEAL ADAM SCHWARTZ ELI PORTNOY GARY DRYFOOS FRIDAY 12:00 noon-2:00 p.m. 2:00-5:00 5:00-6:00 6:00-8:00 8:00-11:00 II :00-2:00 a.m. CHUCK SOMMER MIKE LARSON WEEKEND SPECIAL MARK SHNITKIN SURPRIZE ROTATION STEVE BLONSKY SATURDAY 12:00 noon-3:00p.m. 3:00-6:00 6:00-8:00 8:00' p.m.-2:00 a.m. The Psychology Department student representatives. Irene Cloney and Gary Mys1kowski. in conjunction with the Placement and Career Office. will offer a panel discussion on \Mental Health and Human Service Professions\. This event will take place at 4:30 on Thursdav, Feb. 19th in Strauss Lounge. c·arnegie Hall. Panel members will repre·sent a varietv of fields including counseling. and clinical psychology; special education. rehabilitation counseling, student BETH HELLMERS RAPH DAVIS BRIAN SMART NEAL ADAM SCHWARTZ personnel services, high school guidance counseling and social work. Panel members will not onlv give a brief talk on the academic preparation and qualifications necessary for their jobs but will also describe the dav-to-dav aspects of their work. Students will have a cha nee to ask questions concerning their interests and investigate their possible pos,t-graduate careers. All interested students are invited and urged to attend. Wine and cheese will he served.

Page 10 CONCORDlENSIS, Wednesday, Feb. 18, 197{ .Classlfieds ; . . . ', . . . . . . ' ' . - ' .· ' . ' • ' • ' ' . I ' ' ' . ' ,'' ' • < ' ' • • ' • • ' • • ' ' • ' '' ' ' • ' ' ' • I • ~ • • < The Box Office of the Nott Memorial Theatre needs people. If you'd like to get involved in the Mountebanks and still have plenty of study time, come to the Green Room in Nott at your convenience. All those interested in planning the Senior Class dinner-dance to be held Friday, June II, please leave your name with Mrs. Marra in the Student Activities Office. All students who are interested in working in the Dutch Hollow (restaurant-pub) in any capacity should complete an application in the Personnel Office. Silliman Hall. as soon as possible. Come here Jack Clark, national secretary for the Democratic Socialist Organizing Committee. Topic: \A Socialist Analysis of Today's Problems.\ This Thursday, Feb. 19 at 7 p.m. at SSI I 5, Union College. Are you· Interested in carpentry work? Do you have the ability and skill to plan and construct studios, undertake major painting jobs and wall construction as well as intricate sound proofing? If you are one of those lucky, very gifted individuals who -in&ed possess these skills or are interested in acquiring them, well WRUC\FM may just have the position for you. Not only is the job of Studio Maintenance Director an excellent way of getting into things at R UC, but it is a stepping-stone to other positions at the station. If you are interested in maintaining the physical plant of WRUC, please contact Lloyd Saberski- Station Manager at 370-6150 or Mark Seltzer at 370-6662. The Basie Educational Opportunity Grant (BEOG) applications for the 1976- 77 year are available in the Student Aid Office. Previous recipients must me an application each year. New applicants might wish to discuss the possibility of qualifying for an award with the Director of Student Aid. The Classifieds Page of the New CONCORDlENSIS is primarily a. student service; as such, all material submitted will be published FREE of charge. To insure that the items submitted are printed, all copy MUST be in by Monday at 8:00 PM, Items to be repeated must have the number of runs specified. The Union College CONCORUIENSIS assumes no responsibility for typographical errors, but will print a correction. If you want a ride, or you have something to sell, or you simply want to see something of your own printed up in a major world publication, PLEASE, don't hesitate! This is a FREE service, so take advantage of it. If you wish to submit material which conforms to the format of the Classifieds Page, simply slip it under the Concordy Office door (third floor Carnegie) or leave it with yours truly, Todd Miller at 224 West. Tile Campus Vole~ will be meeting every Monday .night at 6:30 .p.m. in Strauss Lounge. If you're interested in investigative reporting, photo-journalism, or you have some ideas for articles that you'd like to see written up. please come. Faculty and staff are also urged to contribute to the paper. rm Interested in buying a pair of men's ice skates -· either figure or hockey ~ si7e 91;S. If you have a used pair to sell, could vou please call Paul at 346-9225? New Citizen Newspaper: Is looking for a student who would like some experience workinf( on air aspects of a newspaper: repm1ing. editing. paste-up. layout. etc.; and also a student who would be interested in the advertising and solicitinp: of this paper. ·Please call Mr. Carl Saindon far further information on 377-5524. There wiD be a Union Colle11e Fenc111g Club meetin1, Thursday, 2/19, at 8:00 p.m. in the Block U Room of the Alumni Gym. If you have any questions, please call Greg Scott at 372-9716. Attention Students Summer Employment: If vou are interested in a work experience program in entertainment for an eleven week session ~ June 13- August 28, 1976 at Disneyland in California, please come to the Placement Office for further information. Beerlovers, do you wan: to win a f.rce case of beer? All vou have to do is submit a striking name for a sailboat. If your name is selected for the hoat. vou will win a case of beer of vour choice (-within reason). Please submit · names by campus mail to Box R97. WRUC Winter Term Programming guides will he availa.hle this Fridav at the station A limited number have h~en printed so be sure to pick yours up earlv. Last week's first persen article on abortion was anonymous and submitted under a pseudonym. T·he picture accompanying the article did not portray the author. The Security Committee needs one female from Richmond and North as non- voting members to help discuss the issue of locked dorms. security in women's dorms. and other pertinent problems. Those students who have lived more ,than one year in Richmond and North will be given first choice. Please contact Murray Levison. 4 27 West College. 370-6703. hy Monday. February 23rd. APTS ROOMMATE WANTED: One block from the college. Furnished. Verv clos~ .to the market. laundry • .post offi~e. bank. New and clean. Call 38~-8560 or 372-8841. Ask for Alev. If I'm not in. leave your telephone number. Female housemate W:!l.:i'lt~d for Spring Term in a congenial Wendell Ave. apartment. Five minute walk from campus, four bedrooms. two fireplaces (living room. back yard), inexpensive. Don~t miss out on the joys of spring off-campus. Call: 377-4904. Roommate wanted, spring term. Nice place two blocks from the campus. Furnished. Own bedroom. Living room. Close to the market, bank, etc. $80/month per .person (heat and hot water included). About $10/month per person gas and electric. Contact Mike, campus box #R. RIDES RIDE WANTED for any weekend to the University of Pennsylvania or the University of New Hampshire. More than happy to share driving and expenses. Call Elizabeth Dinnel, 116 Davidson, at 370- 6693. TDDAT'S CIDSSIDID PVZZLI A subcommittee of ihe Committee on Faculty is reviewing our present tenure •ystem. If vou have opinions that you want heard. whether they are suf(f(estions or just complaints. please contact Audrey Kupchan in 215 Fox. 346 -9227. or stop by t·he mailroom during mass mailing hours. Input of any sort from students will be helpful. Feedback from students who have been involved in a tenure decision in the past (i.e. from those who have appeared tenure a tenure committee~ would be especially appreciated. RIDE WANTED to Texas, any convenient date. Will share driving and expenses. Call: 887-2848. RIDE WANTED for two to NYC; to leave on or about Thurs. Feb. 26. Call Jon. 372-9910. ACROSS List of candi· dates 6 Point 10 Fishhook part 14 .Mortal 15 Feed the kitty 16 Delinquent soldier 17 Lively joy 19 Long narrative 20 Wilderness 21 Wavered 23 Helicon name 25 Owing 26 Previous to 27 Obstruction 29 Manner of walking 31 Friend 33 Toby beverage 34 Trail of a fugitive 36 Black eye: Slang 40 Slight colora· tion 42 Disliked 44 Surveyor's nail 45 Perfumer's necessity 47 Scruffs 49 Notnew 50 Wrongful: Prefb' 52 Full gainer, e.g. 53 Opposing vote 54 Watering place 57 Mariner: lnftlrmal 59 Judicial assertions 61 ·----·-·joy juice 64 Living units 67 Opposite of: Prefix 68 Meal hour: 2words 70 Digits 71 Needle case 72 \----- Gan· try\ 73 Concludes 74 Newspaper section 75 Palm read· ers, e.g. DOWN Storage structure 2 De·---: Ele· gantlv sump· tuous 3 Pleasure 4 Old Germanic coin 5 Lures into difficulty 6 Jazz devotee 7 Module 8 Remained stable 9 Repressed 10 Military installation 11 Alert L\t week's puzzle solve.d: · F 0 0 L S R A IBIIIO A P E LEROT EMIIILIE IJAS OHEGA C~~TACEOUS GATHER ARISE ,..,,...-,1-!0~ i'~ITH EDEN A N N G R E CU A N . S U I r· E A T TIA C H E S TRAITOR OSTRICH SENTINEL A·STOR ~':\?'!:~iiiN U HIE R A l A l E SASH •• IO~S KNEW A C T U P G L I D E 0 -~ u lA R A E E IE R K OJ!!. A T T S CIOIR N . B R_ u I tt. S E E T 10 IAI S T rs ' N 0 ID 12 Flier's \Okay\ 13 Jaunty young man 18 Join 22 Canadiens or Yankees 24 Water body 27 Computer food 28 Came down 30 Inward: A nat. 32 Spanish article 35 Lukewarm 37 Once ·--· - 38 Spanish par- lor 39 Current 41 Scottish cap · 43 Invent 46 Fiji chestnut 48 Guarantees 51 Became void 54 Ray 55 Rocky Mountain evergreen 56 Played a. part: 58 Course for travel 60 Queen, for one 62 Form of greeting 63 Composition 65 Cuchulain's wife 66 Weights of India 69 Greek length ·measure The Union College Proteet Your Environment Club is now selling tickets for the Grass Roots '76 Capital District Area Bicentenial Celebmtion ,to he held at the Mohawk Mall on the evening of February ;!9th. Many environme1ftalists and historians will attend including Lt. Governor Mary 1\nn Krupsak. Tickets are $7.50 and $3.75 for students. Contact Bob Clarke at Chi Psi~346-9824. The next meeting of the Student-Faculty Brid!!e Club will be held on Tuesday. March 2nd at 7:45 o.m. in the Hale House Upper Lounge. Results of the last meeting were: First place: Millman- Gordon, Second Place: Mills-Sommer. Third Place: Parker-Warner. Do you eomlder yourself artistic? If so, enter the W.R.U.C. Logo contest. The winning design will be used on T -shirts and in ads. For more information contact Lloyd Saerski at the station or eall 370- 6151. LOSr&F0tJND Lost: Dave Dimarco <1nd Paul Stefak. Last seen in Bailey Hall. LOST: lady's glove. left hand. Tan. vinyl: long cuff. If found. please call374-3600. LOST: One pair of brown leather gloves in SS Lounge. Personal gift of value - reward. Contact D. Plumer at 346-9225. LQST: One boy's blue sock. This sock has great sentimental value, so please, if you find it, return it to me at Beta. Ask for Peter McManus. A pair of navy blue gloves were found last week between Parking Lot A and the Humanities Building. They can be claimed in Room 21 J of the Humanities Building. Will the person who borrowed my jacket at the party at Sigma Phi on Saturday ni!!ht (2114) please return it? I'm geiting coldl It's a blue Down Ski Parka with a Woolrich label. There is also a splash of yellow paint on the sleeve near the shoulder. In addition, there mav he a tie in the froni pocket. Please return to Neil Sussman. 256 Fox, 370-6600. LOST - Male mutt, part beagle. name Tim. brown back. white chest and .legs. brown collar. 6-S months old, call 372-8935. FOUND: Gold Ringed Earing - if ·Jost cal16570. • l) RIDE WANTED to Florida around March 15th. Will split all costs. Call Linda at 374-6700. or Candy at 372-0216. .... _.+'_ Ride wanted to Cornell University, Thursday, February 19th or Friday, February 20th. Also Ride wanted to U. of Penn. Thursday, February 26th or · Friday. February 27th. Will share drivinf( and expenses. Call Elli~; at 346-9292. Ride wmted to U. of Penn. (Philadelphia) ,. on Fehruarv 20th or 27th. Will share driving and expenses. Contact Jay at 346-9973. Ride wanted to Binghamton (S.U.N Y.) on Friday. February 20th. Call Lois at 346- 7052. Ride wmted to Chicago. Cali 372-2587 during the eveninf(. Ride Wanted for anv weekend to Universitv of Pennsylvania (Philadelphia) or University of New Hampshire (Dur- ham). More than willing to share driving and expenses. Please call E li7abeth Dinnel at 370-61l93. Ride wanted to Long Island on Friday and hack on Sunday. Call Vivian at 346- 9545. Ride wanted to N N.Y.C'. on Thursdav. Februarv 19th or Fridav. February 20th. Call Stenie at 377-7180. · Ride wanted to Paramus .. New Jersey or Suffern exit on the Thruway. leaving anytime after 2:30 p.m. Thursday, February 19th and returning Sunday. February 22nd. Will share expenses. Call' Roberta at 370-6540. Rider Wanted t6 Buffalo (Williamsville). leaving Friday. February 20th at noon and returning sunday .afternoon Call Jill in 220 Richmond at 370-6423. Riders wanted to Atlanta Ga. (Emorv University) or somewhere alonj! the way durin!! the sprinf( vacation. Call Ken at 370- 6689. Riders wanted to Rochester leaving Fri- day,· February 20th. Contact Li7anne at 370-6584. Riders wanted to !.ower Westchester on Frida,v. Februarv 20th. Contact Sandy at FiH at 372-0112: FOR SALE: Two pairs of mcing skis: V olkl carbon, used less than one year, worth $40, excellent condition; and K2 Competition, $20. Prices flexible, must sell. Contact Tom at 203 Edwards. SKIS FOR SALE: Attenhofer-Davos 190 em skis. Excellent condition, must sell. Call 346-9973 and ask for Jim. FOR SALE: Pioneer CSR\500 speakers. 3- way 10\ woofer. 1 year old. List $1:69; pair $165. Call Gringo at 346-9272. FOR SALE: Texas Instruments SR-I I (electronic slide rule calculator). One-year- old. excellent ·condition; comes with box, adaptor/charger. carrying case and instruction •booklet. $50. Contact Chris Vilardi. 302 McKean at 346-9303. Used Simplex 'Prest111e' 10-speed bike derailleurs (both front and rear) and shifting levers. List price: $20.85, will sell for $10.00. Call Bob, 203 Webster 346- 9426. ' FOR SALE:. Audiovox 8 ~ track stereo (FM) radio adapter. Fits into any car 8-track svstem; includes antenna and pili!!-in device. Like new. used for two weeks. $30. If interested, contact owner at W3-R239~ 'FOR SALE: Si7e lO ski boots. LANGE PRO with Flo: Used about ten times. List .price: $!50 new; will sell at $45. Call Dave at 882c9373 or 237-0785. . FOR SALE: '64 Epiphone Wilshire. Good condition. Asking $175. Contact Craig 377-7107. FOR SALE: Martin 12-string guitar, in excellent condition. Starting price $350, but will :haggle. If interested, contact Prof. Reynolds. 370-6246. FOR SALE: Rossignol skis. ST 650's: 207 em.: ROC 550\: 205 em. Both are in excellent condition and have Ramy ff.rench) bindinf(s. Reasonably priced. Call 370-6608 before or after this weekend. FOR SALE: one pair semi-used WinnWell 1661 Goaltender Iegguards. Price: first born male child. Will haggle: contact Andy, 205 Edwards, at 346-9658. 1969 Triumph Spitfire (MK III). Extras include convertable and hard-top. steel· belted radial tires and luggage rack. It has a- new battery, rear univer~al joints, .plus other new part~. Asking $995. If interested, . ca11337-4781 or 377~9837 and ask for Ron. · FO._ SALE: Sansui Amplifier 30 watts/ channel and tWo pairs of speakers. Call372-3551. For sale: ·f972 V.W. Beetle. excellent running condition, 29mpg. best offer. Call Dave at 372-0478 .. For sale: A. K. C. registered Siberian Husky pups. Beautiful markinf(s. friendly, and sturdy. Have had puppy shots. Call Dave at 393-3346 during late evening. Ski Boots- Men's size 8, Munari's. used twice. cost $110 new, best offer. Call Lew at 377-0172 and help a poor hoy go to Florida. For Sale: Madeira 6 string guitar. Model A· 20. only One year old. in perfect condition. Rose wood sides and back. Natural pine face. With case. extra strings, card, and shoulder strap. Distributed hy Guild. Only $130.00. Call Rich at 393-9535. For sale: Rossif(nol skis ST -650's: 207 em.: 550's 205 em. Both ate in excellent condition, and have Ramy (French) bindings. Reasonably priced. Call 370- 6608. Before or after this weekend .. Drums for sale. Ludwig double 20\ bass, 3 toms. snare. 6 · Zilditan cvmbois and all hardware. $500.00. Call Jon at 393-0860 .. Desperately needed. One thesis on , Revolutionary War Pamphlets. Will pa.v with pleasureful favors. Contact Mr. Beef 6729. It's .that time of the year again. folks. and Fax is seeking young. nubile females (preferably in heat) for his seasonal enjoyment. Inquire Webster Hall. Medieal S£ience has just uncovered' the latest in many seemingly innocent, but actttallv deadlv. items that can he found in 1 he h~me. · The trusty potato; , lofig thought safe for human ·handling. is now thouj!ht to cause serious d!!mage to important hones of the body. Preliminary evidence is just tricklin!! in. hut students· are forewarned to avoid this atroci6ils beast. One pOtato, two potato. three potato. four: five potato. six potato. seven potato more. Kro - Not a shirt on my back ... l ). } I I I I

sell. OS 190 selL 3- pair SR-I! h box, and Chris d bike r) and sell 346- track any na and two at es. List II Dave in $350, ct Prof. 207 a(e in Ramy ed. Call d. inn Well first contact Extras steel· It has .plus Ron. 30 peakers. excellent Call Siherian friendly, Call g. used Lew go to A- pine and ld. Only 207 em.: 370· 3 and all .. on, Will pay Mr. Beef and females the but in long is now to students· atrocious potato. potato . ' .~ '•:. •' l . ·: ' r' ) ·, i .~ ). . ' ) .•· •. ' ~ I \ ~ 1 ' . I I ,• 1 } ' ., r i CONCORDIENSIS, Wednesday, Feb. 18, 1976 Page 11 Harkness'/ boys streak to twelfth straight The Garnet hockey team upped its record to 16 wins, l loss and I forfeit last week as they buried Fairfield 11-:J and got by Brockport State 10-6. The Fairfield game was all Union as they outshot the visitors from Connecticut 7-1-20, the 71 shots breaking the previous high of 67 vs. Cortland State. However, though outshot 24 to 7 in the first period, Fairfield found themselves down only 1-0, thanks Gazzola added 2 himself in the last minute. Against Brockport, the Gamet fo1md themselves facing a team to some spectacular goal tending by Maida, their freshman goalie from Peabody, Mass.. Donny Marshall gave the .Garnet their l-0 lead, and Grant Judd made 2-0 5 minutes into the second period. Still, with half the game gone, and completely outplayed by Union, Fairfield was still within reach. With 5 minutes left in the period the Dutchman asserted themselves once and for all, scoring 3 straight shorthanded goals and completely demoralizing Fairfield in the process. The 3rd period was all Union as they lri netted 6 more goals, 3 of those :g rii scores coming in the final minute. .!1 Steve Baker was hardly tested in ~ the nets for Union.turningaway 19 ~· shots. Kip Churchill ·and Donny j Marshall scored 2 goals each to \'\ lead the attack, and Sketter by CHARLIE FLANAGAN In answer to \DRP' l have several remarks. First of all, Mr. DRP, let me tell you the Concordy policy concerning letters. All letters must be signed, or they won't be printed. In the future, please write your name out in full. I thank you for responding, but I cannot agree with you. How, for instance,. do you know that a Union player was ''brutally kicked in the gut by another Buffalo t>layer,\ or that the Union coach was \verbally and physically assaulted?\ In order to make such accurate- sounding statements, you must have been present at the game. Since Buffalo is quite far from here, I doubt that you made the trip. You say, DRP, that fighting is common in hockey. What is your opinion about the fighting? ls fighting good or bad? From your letter it is difficult for me to tell exactly what your views on fighting are. I disagree with your comment that the Buffalo player who spo.ke to or touched the Union coach was just getting 'what he deserved.' This idea connotes the old saying 'an eye for an. eye, a tooth for a tooth.' Hitting the Buffalo player with the stick was a cheap shot on the Union player's part. I don't care how '\frustrated\ or \over-excited\ the Union player was, there is no reason why he had to · use his hockey stick on the opposing player's head. What if the Buffalo player's eye was _poked out? What if he had been killed? In conclusion, let me draw your attention to a-n article in·the New York Times (Friday, February 13, 1976, page 4). The president of • Elmira College, Dr. J. Ralph Murray, went out onto the ice during the Elmira-Cortland game to protest the officiating. He told the referee to either take control of the game, or the game would be stopped (even if that meant an Elmira forfeit). Dr. Murray went on to say, and I heartily agree with him, that \the officiating is 100 percent at fault. If someone by BILL PECK they had crushed 12-0 earlier. And it looked like more· of the same as the Dutchmen cruised ahead 6~1. Brockport woke up and the Kardos stickhondling beautifUlly doesn't step in and put a stop to this sort of hockey fighting, the game is going to get out of control.\ It is too bad that Dr. Murray's views are not shared by all college presidents. Maybe then college hockey could be played like it is supposed to be, and not turned into a constant brouhaha. Girls split The Union College Women's Basketball team split their games this past week. Against the women slide rulers from RPI the Dutchwomen were beaten seventy-seven to fifty-one. Donna Sockel netted an amazing thirty- one points. Against The College of Saint Rose, the women won fifty-one to forty-eight. Donna Sockel again led all scorers with twenty points. Kathy Reals also contributed offensively in the girls' win. With more experience gained by each game, t:he girls can't but improve. Not even a hip ch'l!ck can prevent Donna grom scoring two. Dutchmen fell asleep, and soon it was 6·5 and a hockey game instead of the usual rout. With the score 7-6 in the third period, the Dutchmen finally roused from their slumber long enough to score 3 more goals for the final score of 10-6. It seems obvious that the Garnet might have been looking ahead to their next game with arch rival Hamilton, hence the let down. Playing a seemingly endless stream of 11-1 games can make it tough to get up for a game, and the Brockport game is such a case. It is expected that they will be up for tonight's (Wed.) contest with the Continentals. John Wright was the hero for Union, scoring the hat trick. Grant Judd chipped in two goals as well. It was an off night for Jim Baxter, and he asked to be removed after 2 periods. Steve Baker came off the bench and gave up a quick goal, but was tough from then on. Though the game was close for a while, Union dominated the play, outshooting the hosts 48-23. However, the Garnet will have to do better than that if they expect to beat the likes of Merrimack, Salem State and Hamilton. T onighfs test should be an indication of how the young Dutchmen can fare against top competition after a month of pushovers. Wrestling ends suc,cessful season by NEAL SCHWARTZ Union ended their dual meet season on a sad note losing to Division I Colgate by a 32-8 score. The Dutchman, wrestling in Division lll, had a definite bad day last Wednesday against the Hamilton, N.Y. school, but the rest of the season should not be forgotten. Union's matmen wound up with 12 wins against only 5 losses and also received recognition, as of last week, as the nation's 20th ranked Division IU squad. Union pulled together throughout the season and much of their success was due to basic cooperation and teamwork. Bruce Freeman, under the title of assistant coach. acted as head coach through a season that saw one home meet out of 17 dual matches. Union was to wrestle Binghamton, on Schenectady turf, last night, but the scheduled visiting school called in sick on Monday to cancel the encounter. Some of the few bright spots last week against Colgate were Mike Paquette and Tom Everett winning decisional match,-·~ as well as Larry Dagastino drawing at 134 pounds. Freshman George Redder lost to a N. Y. State Champion in Perkins in a tough match for the freshman wrestler. Last Wednesday also saw Jim Sutton lose his first match of the season by a 8-3 score to Colgate's ·clark. This Saturday the wrestling team travels to Oswego for the NY States. Last year Bruce Freeman, who is this year's coach, placed second in the states and Mike Paquette placed sixth. It is very likely that Union will see a few of the wrestlerf in the top 10 again this Saturday. Both Co-captains advanced their seasonal records over their previous . year's. Senior Larry Dagastino ended with a 14-2-1 record and his best season ever. Tom Everett, also a senior, bettered his 1975 record of 7-2-1 to a recent 12-4-1 1976 finish. Jim Sutton also topped his previous 9- 3 seasonal record as a freshman · to this years 13-1-1 as a Union sophomore. Wt. Name Individual Seasonal Records Year wins-los• ses-ties 4- 3-l 6- 2-0 12- 3-2 14- 2-1 2-13-0 13- 1-1 12- 4-1 14- l-1 9- 5-0 2- 3-0 ll8 118 126 134 142 150 158 167 177 177 190 Hwt. Bruce De Blois Ralph Edgley Kevin Hallenback Larry Dagastino George Redder Jim Sutton Tom Everett Mike Paquette Josh Salzmann Chet Karwatowski Cliff Farrell Dan Tannenbaum Pete Felker Chuck Fenson Catfish says: Freshman Freshman Freshman Senior Freshman Sophomore Senior Junior Sophomore Sophomore Freshman Freshman Freshman Junior 2- 2-0 1- 8-l 2- 2-0 1- 3-0 School is a lot of fun this year. I've been subjected to every kind of temperament while still maintaining my own individuality. Just give me a milt and a ball, ru be fine.

Page 12 CONCORDIENSIS, Wednesday, Feb. 18, 1976 concordy sports Hoopsters • WID streak snapped The Union College Basketball squad saw its seven game winning streak, and opportunity for a third straight 20 win season abruptly punctured last Wednesday evening as the Dutchmen reluctantly succumbed, 88-80, to an obviously psyched, torrid-shooting Hamilton team, before an equally enthusaistic Continental crowd. But the Garnet rallied to pulverize a talented but inconsistent C. W. Post five, 92-58, last Saturday in Memorial Fieldhouse. The split left Union's record at 12-5 for the year, with five regular season contests and a probable E.C.A.C. tourney berth remaining. Seeking their fifth straight triumph in the past two seasons over Hamilton, the Dutchmen c o n f r o n te d a r e v a m p e d Continental offense and phenomenal outside shooting, making their task considerably more difficult. In an earlier loss to Union this year the Continentals had been jolted out of their offense by the pressure team defense of Coach Scanlon's five, and Union subsequently cruised to easy victory. This time around though, Hamilton countered with several adjustments to stymie the Dutchmen and mount a 49-41 half-time lead. The Continentals employed a more active offense demanding constant movement, screening and picking from all their players. This perpetual motion noticeably stunted the effectiveness of the \' man-to-man, helping defense. The ! Garnet defenders were too often ~ occupied trailing their own men ~ around to come to the aid of their !9. teammates. As a result the g. Hamilton players found 'rJ for more switching in an attempt to clog up the middle and prevent penetration. This strategy appeared to be finally on the brink of being rewarded When, with slightly more than .ten minutes transpired in the second stanza, Union on unansWered baskets by John Denio, Gary Borgese and two free throws by Pete Meola narrowed the gap to four, 67\63. But Hamilton, while not converting as often as in the first half, still proved clutch and bounced back with two straight hoops to up the margin to eight. Yet the clock showed over eight minutes remaining and Union now enjoyed the hot hand. It only seemed a question of time before Hamilton would crack. And when AI Walker and Steve Kelly by BILL HENSON quickly added a hoop apiece to bring the Dutchmen back within four, the Garnet appeared .ready to surge ahead for keeps. Pius the Hamilton bench had just been slapped with a technical fouL The momentum was ours. lf Union could can the free throw and come back with a hoop they would move within one, With t-he scattered but vocal Garnet fans urging him on, Steve Kelly marched to the line, hesitated, and then calmly tossed the ball up. But contrary to the script the shot bounced off the rear of the rim. Still Union maintained possession. But a hasty jumper went awry and Hamilton, rejuvenated by the reprieve retaliated with a crucial bucket to stifle the rally. Hamilton, stealing a page from Union's playbook moved into a four-corneT stalL But the Dutchmen not ready to yield, ctawled back once more to within four as John Denio sank a rebound of his own errant shot. then, following a Contenental missed foul toss Union came down with an opportunity to climb within a single bucket-but John ·threw up a forced shot that caught only air, and Hamilton once more upped their advantage, this time to stay, with six straight points. T he D ut c h m en s h o t remarkably well in the second half, 24-33, and benefited enormously from outstanding themselves free for easy hoops underneath and open jumpers from the corners. This, combined with remarkable shooting accuracy enabled them to open as much as a 15 point advantage, 47- 32, before Union whittled the lead to eight at the intermission. Everybody getting into the act under the boards. Garnet legmen sweep In the lockerroom Union adjusted their defense, allowing The Union College Indoor Track Team scored a major ---------------,victory Saturday by beating Colgate and Albany State. The Track Stats COLGATE-UNION- ALBANY STATE TRACK MEET scores for each team were: Union 59, Colgate 55, and Albany St. 23. Steve Jones ran a very impressive race in the two mile run, setting a new Union record of 9:16.0. He took second in that event. Freshman star Kevin Scheuer again placed first both in the mile and 1000 yard runs. It was the third consecutive meet in which he has done this. In the 600 SHOT PUT yard run, Bob Moffat took first . Mosses (Col.) 42'11; Malorzo '---------------, (Col.) 42'4; Robin (AL St) 41'4Y2; Manelenko (AI St) 39'3. HIGH JUMP Plumer (U) 6'6; Heaslap (Col.) 6'2; Crimmins (U) 6'4; Rogers (U) 6'2. 55 HH Canepa (Col.) 7.2; Decker (U) 7.3; Parish (U) 7.9; Adam (C) 7.9 . 600 Moffat (U) 1:14.8; Barr (C) 1:18.4; Auger (U) 1:19.6; Lockyer POLEVAULT (C) 1:20.4 Ricks (U.) 13'0; Dervay (AI 1000 St) 12'6; Mastaitis (U) 12'6; Wood . Scheuer (U) 2:20.3; Pandale (C) (AI St) 12'0. 2:23.5; Kitzrow (AI St) 2:23. 9; LONG JUMP Hover (C) 2:26.5 Steltzer (Col.); Ricks (U) 21'1; TWO MILE Angelino (C) 20;11; Febles (AI St) Davis (AI St) 9:11.5; Jones (U) 20'2. 9:16.0; Cherubino (AS) 9:35.6; 2 MILE RELAY Berman (AI St) 9:40.2 Wiskoski- -Auger, Jones-Moffat TRIPLE JUMP (U) 8:10; Colgate 8:15.6; Albany Steltzer (Col) 45' 7%; Canepa (C) 8:22.8 42' 9\6; Febels (AS) 42'5J4; MILE Chilton (U) 42' .0 Scheuer (U) 4:19.9; Carsky (C) MILE RELAY 4:23.6; Burns (AI St) · 4:27.9; Ricks-Auger; Mastaitis-Moffat, Benman (AI St) 4:30.3 Union 3:31.0; Colgate 3:40.9; 50 Albany St. 3:45.5. Cook (Col.) 5.7; Herring (U) 5.7; Union 59; Colgate 55; Albany Parish (U) 5.8 King (C) 5.8 State 23 Colgate and State large crowd. With the team's by JEFF SCHEININGER momentum and their steadily place with a time \of 1:14.8 and improving scores they should be Billy Auger placed third with a more than a match for the teams time of 1:19.6. competing in the R.P.I. The Garnet Relay team Invitational meet on Sat., Feb. provided two exciting races by 21. The R.P.I. lnvy should taking first place berths in both provide excellent practice for the the mile and two mile relays. In team and strengthen their skills both events Colgate and Albany for the Capital District St. placed second and third . Championships to be held in the respectively. In the sprinting field h!JUSe on February 28. events, Milt Herring_ and Lee Pajish dashed to second and third place in the 55 yatd high hurdles behind Mark Decker who took second with a time of 7.3 seconds . .. In the field events the Garnet Jumpers hopped their way to an impresive showing. Dave Ricks participated in both the pole vaulting and long jump contests, and both at the same time. He took first in vaulting with a height of 13'0\ then sprinted across the field house to participate in the long jump, in which he placed second. Steve Mastaitis placed third in the pole vault with a jump of 12'6\. Captain Dave Plumer set a personal season's record with a . high jump of 6' 6\. The jump was more than good enough to get him first place. Keith Cummins and Cliff Rogers also scored in the high jump with heights of 6'2\. In the final event, the triple jump, freshman Earl Chilton jumped for a combined score of 44' to clinch a fourth place berth for Union in that event. play 'h:y a few of their players, notably Gary B'orgese who finislled as the Garnefs high scorer -with seventeen, hut it was not etlough to offset the fatal comllill'ation of fheir occasional defensive lapses and their rival's cool arid clutch sec0nd half play. The Dutchmen returned home Satllrday to confront a puzzling C.W. Post squad that had been demolished by Ha-rtwick yet had beaten Division I foe Hofstra. But seven minutes into the aontest any sembl!mce of mystery was erased , as Union; behind Steve Kelly, John Denio and Pete Meola grabbed a ten point lead that was only challenged one~. That was early in the second half but Joel' Fisher scored eight' points in less than Jour . minutes to spark the Ga:rnet to an unreachable twenty point bulge. Junior AI Walker then assumed command, sinking four .buckets as Union outscored Post 18-4 over a three and one half minute .period putting the game well out of reach. The Union hoopers now face their busiest week with four games in seven days. Tomorrow evening they host Trinity College, currently flying high on a ten game winning streak. Then SaturdCty they travel to Cortland State, a new addition to the sc:hedule. Befpre coming home tltey C()nfront old foe and arch- rival R. PJ. ·next Monday. Wednesday evening in Memorial fieldhouse. its Binghamton in the season's next to last game. stats FG FT TP Den-io. 5 3 13 Kelly 6 2 14 Borgese 2 0 4 Meoia 5 4 14 Waller Phd. 7 4 18 Symonette 3 2 8 Smith 2 3 7 Fish:er 6 0 12 McLaughlin 0 2 2 C.W. POST 58 -FG FT TP Debonis 2 1 5 · Johns()s 3 I 7 Fou11taine 5 0 10 Lowe 6 0 12 Oswald 2 0 4 Wall<er 1 3 5 Mid<lleton I I 3 Hawkins 1 0 2 Cole 4 0 8 Coach Michelson's men put an excellent showing on before a Dave Ricks leads first leg ofvict~riotts mile r:elay. I . { . ' ·~ '' j . l I I· .. ' . ' . ·\ ' i ' ' l '·.j -~ ! i l l i ! U1 c~ Be by NE) There late abou Union C< was not most recc An ex:: process described Sec. IV-: been considera Departm( approved Faculty Committe Provost committe the Ad' examine candidate its f i recomme to the A• ·The a' being t guideline no rigid recomme but thet standard: candida scholarsh service t< cons ide tenurabil truly c achievem candidate in one of the othe the aver:: Thus, describec committe three cit and com committe to the ). Commit! In det (research consider< that, \u· has be prestigio requires writing ev<~luati< ncJther chairma1 The l meet Commit ambigui1 chairm~

. , .~ . '\ ,. • ~J ~~·:· '· -.;. ... •· \ :t ' -~·f • r .t f1111l; . ·~ ' :I a ., <\) It ). . ~t \ : .,~ ' (.> •I :.:) \ ., -.'-;_j ~· .;~ by ~· ··~ ., :> we ·~ ~ ,, ~,~; <··:!\' we . · .. , ~ ., .. ' i.J Inside: Roving Reporters Elitism at Union Student Needs . ·Potential for Power u • r.-------~~-----~~--~----------~--~-----n 1• 1 Statement of Purp·. ose u I - ~-1 ~~ ~fter a l'?ng and d.ifficult battle, w~ an? pleased to bring you. the first R I ! 1 edt!mn of a ne~ Umon ~ollege pu?llcat~on, The Campus V ~Ice •. The II II V o1ce has been established to mvesttgate and report s1tu:atwns, I ~; ~ttitude~, and opin_ions of c~ncern ~o the Union. College community, It I 1 1s also mterested m photo-Journahsm, the telling of a story through ~ I pictures. I ~ Questions have. arisen as .to why this type of- ne~sp~per .should exist I 1 as. a separate e:1t1ty at Umon College, and how 1t wtll dtffer from a I ~ \muckraking\ journal. The constitution of The Voice assures that 1 ~ investigative reporting will continue to exist at Union regardless of the I ~ editorial policies of other ~ampus publications. Also, the five-person I 1 editorial board will enable us to solicit articles and ideas from more 1 r . I people involved in the college. I I To th~ c~arg~ of ~erely being a ''muckra~ingn jo_urnal, our reply is I 1 that -we mtend not only to show the flaws m present systems, but to The Way We Were I offer constructive ideas for change. If ~e wander from this ?oal, we I expect people to let us know. Also, 1f you feel our solutiOns are 1 inade.quate, we hope that you will offer some of your own. I The Campus Voice was created to help us, members of the college, I to take a good look at ourselves as a community. We are dedicated to The Times They Are A Changin' by judy dein, michael ganz and r. b. thau According to several professors in Division I, Union students serving all parts of the campus, and to do this we would like contributions from faculty, administrators, staff and all students. If anyone has done any research on attitudes at Union and would like to put it in article form, we would be more than willing to discuss publication of the research .. The creation of the Voice was, in and of itself, a major step in I have become less adept at utilizing verbal and written skills over the past few years. Interviews conducted with bringing the college together and proving that change could be i accomplished if people are willing to work. Petitions with over 500 I signatures were presented to the Student Forum in support of this 1 publication. We would like to take this opportunity to thank those who • signed, as wen as those who created and circulated these petitions. This 1 1 support was necessary not only to prove to the Forum that the college I II wanted this publication, but to give the editorial board the impetus to I II continue arguing for investigative reporting at Union. 1 II The Campus Voice meets every Monday night at 6:30 in Strauss II 11 Lounge. At this time, ideas for articles are discussed and evaluations of 11 II work already done are made. These meetings are open to everyone, and II II we urge all people with ideas for this publication to come. Writing II 11 experience is not a pre-requisite for working on The Voice. II II Once again, The Campus Voice is dedicated to investigative 11 II reporting and to upholding a professional level of journalism. We trust II II that you will find articles well-researched and thought-provoking. We II II welcome an comments, criticisms, and ideas for future issues. Please II II send all comments to the Student Activities Office, any of the editors, II or come to the Monday night meetings. Remember, it will take a II II commitment from all of us to make this publication work. 11 I!_ . . The Editors II ----~---~---~~-------------~-~----~-~ .Professors Hagen (English), Finkelstein (History), Potts (History), Reece (Classics), Tidmarch (Political Science) and Wells (History) also revealed that students seem to be much less motivated and tend to he more specialized in their fields of study than in the past. The decline in written and verbal skills was attributed to the admittance of students with lower S.A. T. scores over the yea:rs. While, as Professor Potts noted, the board scores for some students should not be taken seriously due to the poor quality of previous schooling; most Union students come from middle class, academically oriented families and good schools. The lower scores cannot be ignored in these latter Cl}.ses. While most of the professors agreed that the drop in S.A.T. scores is part of a nation-wide trend, they felt that Union should be able to overcome this slide. As Professor Finkelstein stated, \students have been poorly so~;ializ.cd into b~~!.'~;.tions: On Student Government · supposedly designed to specialize in certain fields and attract and There is an organization on campus, unbeknownst to many, known gauge student opinion, that is rarely efficient, infrequently meeting, as student government (with its component parts of Student Forum and usually unproductive and non-contributive. The failure to garner an~ f~e various committees). The structure is not nearly as complex student input on the issues is a major communicative stumbling block as It IS made out to be. The confusion is more a symptom of the between Forum, the committees, and the student body as a whole. It ~tudent body's lack of concern than any inherent intricacies. The helps precipitate the lack of understanding of the governmental •gno~a~ce of the student body towards student government not only structure on the part of the student body, and also inhibits the · prec1p1tates the rumors and stories that are widely circulated on efficient functioning of the Forum. camp~s, ?ut more importantly, detracts from the efficiency of this A third weakness within the governmental structure, a problem orgamzat1on. Th especially visible this year, is an over-e-xtension or over-ambitiousness e most significant reason for student body diffidence and lack of f of Forum in working on certain issues. It is the feeling of that body :~~ei~pl~~a~~~~:n~ng~~~~n:~~~;:_:~~~~~en~~~~~~~~:~s~~=~~.t~~eo~~~ that the student government of recent years was a travesty, without really m the hands of Student Forum. Issues such as the calendar goals or energy, and therefore without success. One of the early d . 1 ' undertakings .of the Forum this year was to change that image, but in gra ~n~ P ans, community participation, tuition and financial aid, and admissions practices are within the decision-making realm of the All- the process it seems that possibly too much was undertaken. The College Senate or Board of Trustees. In fact, there are ten student power of Student Forum and its two standing committees, Audit and Committee on Committees, is limited in all but a few cases to purely votes on the All-College Senate, but this number is still a minority student affairs. On the other hand, the student body's interest appears and therefore of limited influence. . ~ second flaw within the student governmental structure is the lack to be more in the direction of graduate, professional schools or the :,of mput from the student body on those issues over which Student job market, and consequently, the two bodies may come into conflict ··F h · · d' · · . or not come into contact at all. orum as JUriS 1ct1on. The committee structure seems to work w1th H· .. . ·. · · · · energy more perfu~ctory than an~t~J!!¥~fls~, _!.~!_s ~~~g;s .to.a\\;~:tS.1!tQ!,,. < .,. .. ~~~-~:~: ~e.::: Student . ~o.r~~~~~~~J~;:;:ie ~~bounded energy believing that experience is enough; but experience must have depth and substance to be meaningful.\ Consequently, writing and reading skills are very important. Lack of. Creativity Students seem to be more interested in simply completing assignments than looking for the intrinsic rewards of doing them, according to Professor Tidmarch. This lack of .. intellectual curiosity\ was noted by all the professors. Professor Potts stated that Union College is a special institution, with the traditional aims of liberal learning and sharpening analytical skills. With these aims, admitting people who are unwilling or unable to pursue these aims may have an impact both on the college's commitment to liberal learning and to the students themselves. The lack of motivation was attributed to various causes, including more specialized fields of study and a lack of diversity, not necessarily geographic, of the student body. Professor Hagen felt that the tough job market has caused student~ to more clearly define their goals and specialize in one secure field, thus precluding a sense of adventure in their studies. He felt that this .. longing for security\ is a nation-wide occurrence, hut that as soon as the job market opens up, students will become more creative. Professor Reece, who does not see a major change in student's abilities, still agreed that the closed job market has caused a slight decline in creativity among students. Homogeneous Group Professor I idmarch noted a real homogeneity in students' perceptions and paper topics, something which he attributes to a lack of diversity among the student population at Union. While he feels that a more national student body would be good, he feels that Union could cultivate different types of people within New York State. A diversity of perceptions and backgrounds would. he feels, help stimulate more interesting discussions in class. A lack of pride in their work continued on Page tA

\* a It by we we to·inck u:nci!tt.~li n d¢priving last chance )[ them, then college· will ()dUcatiomU go·.· to Unh:mwould members of to .. consider abtnad \fi'\\~\' ~;. . ···';\ .. . ., ' ! Inside: IT« (Q) \'f n lffi ~ JRZ ~ JI.lHDl !rt ~If§ 1E TI itt n~sHffi1l £1 ~ 1U lfll n ((} ml §QmJ<d!~IT11~ N eredl§ lP tf1l ~ e 111l ~ li 21 ~ if «1 rr J? ()) ~~ ~ Ir Vol. t, No.1 February 18, 197S · 0 • ~~~~e=::;~O!\!::!~~:::\:'::ll:\'.\:'~~~~~c:;...-.:'3=~~\!!'0~~e::::Jr::-.::Jcr=.ll~r:=o~Cl:\Z)~-!!tz:.'!....,o=c::;::;;;JO.~=:.o~t.!oz.:Jc.::::!:JI.'::;;:;.:;;;:u:;.z;;;;~~~Q;\\~~.d:a ~ n .. . . .... ~ ~ 11 Statement of Purpose i 1 ~ ~ ~fter a long and d.ifficult battle, w~ an~ pleased to bring you. the first ~ ~ f: ~ ed1hon of a new Umon College publtcatwn, The Campus V mce. The ~ ~ fi ~ Voice has been established to investigate and report situations, il ~ il ~ attitudes, and opinions of concern to the Union College community. It ~ tl ~I is also interested in photo-journalism, the telling of a story through ~ ~ ~ ~ pictures. ~ ~ ij ~ Questions have arisen as to why this type of newspaper should exist ~ ~ il ~ as a separ:ate e:tity at Union Col~eg~, and how it w~ll differ from a ~ ~ ~ ~ \muckrakmg\ Journal. The constitutiOn of The V mce assures that 0 ~ ~ ~ investigative reporting will continue to exist at Union regardless of the ~ ~ ~ ~ editorial policies of other campus publications. Also, the five-person ~ ~ ~ 'j editorial board will enable us to solicit articles and ideas from more H ~ ~ ~ people involved in the college. ~ D ... ~ ~ i To the. charge of merely being a \muckra~ing\ journal, our reply is ~ ~ The Way We Were 6 ~ that we mtend not only to show the flaws m present systems, but to D ~ Th T • Th ~ ! offer constructive ideas for change. If we wander from this goal, we ~ ~ e }ill e S ey 9 ~ expect people to let us know. Also, if you feel our solutions are ~ J a ~ inadequate, we hope that you will offer some of your own. ~I Are A Changi· n' ~ ~ The Campus Voice was created to help us, members of the college, Q I . ~! to take a good look at ourselves as a community. We are dedicated to ~I by judy dein, believing that experience is 91 serving all parts of the campus, and to do this we would like O I michael ganz and enough; but experience must have ~~ ~~ contributions from faculty, administrators, staff and all students. If r 1 d. r. b. thau 1 f depth and substance to be u A meaningful.\ Consequently, . h d h · d U · d ld l\k G ! ccor mg to severa pro essors ~ I anyone as one any researc on att1tu es at mon an wou 1 e to B ~ in Division 1 , Union students writing and reading skills are very ~ ~ put .it i~ article form, we would be more than willing to discuss Q n h~v.e. become less .adept . at important. H pubhcatiOn of the research. 11 ~ ut1hzmg verbal and wntten sk1lls Lack of Creativity ~ i . ; . . . . g tl over the past few years. Students seem to be more ~ U The creatiOn of the Vmce was, m and of ttself, a maJOr step m ~ ~ Interviews conducted with interested in simply completing ~ N bringing the college together and proving that change could be ~. ~ P:ofessors Ha~en (English), assignments than looking for the ~ ~ u ~ F k 1 t 1 (H t ry) Potts intrinsic rewards of doing them, o H 1\ h d \f I 'II' k p . . . h 500 m e s e n Is o , ~ § accomp lS e 1 peop e are WI mg to wor . etltwns Wit over ~ ~ (History), Reece (Classics), according to Professor Tidmarch. ~! signatures were presented to the Student Forum in support of this ~ D Tidmarc~ (Political Science) and This lack of \intellectual n publication. We would like to take this opportunity to thank those who ~I Wells (History) also revealed that curiosity'' was noted by all the ~ ~ . , . , . G ~ students seem to be much less professors. Professor Potts stated ~! Signed, as well as those who created and Circulated these petitiOns. Thts a~ motivated and tend to be more that Union College is a special l q support was necessary not only to prove to the Forum that the college ~ ~ specialized in their fields of study institution, with the traditional u il fl th th t aims of liberal learning and . d h\ bl\ . b . h d\ . 1 b d h . au an m e pas . ~ 1 wante t IS pu 1cat10n, ut to g1ve t e e 1tona oar t e Impetus to ~ ~ The decline in written and sharpening analytical skills. With ~I continue arguing for investigative reporting at Union. ~ ~ verbal skills was attributed to the these aims. admitting people who ~ i The Campus Voice meets every Monday night at 6:30 in Strauss 0 0 admittance of students with lower are unwilling or unable to pursue g D 11 a S A [ th these aims may have an impact 9 g • • , , • • tl ~ • • . scores over e years. ~ 1 Lounge. At thts time, Ideas for articles are discussed and evaluations of ~ ~ While, as Professor Potts noted, both on the college's commitment ~ i work already done are made. These meetings are open to everyone, and 11 ~ the board scores for some to liberal learning and to the U 11 1 · h \d f h\ bl\ · W . . g ~ students should not be taken students themselves. B I we urge a peop e Wit 1 eas or t IS pu Icatwn to come. ntmg u M seriously due to the poor quality The Jack of motivation was ~ ~ experience is not a pre-requisite for working on The Voice. I ! of previous schooling; most attributed to various causes, u · ~ a Un· 1 0 n stud t m f m m'ddl including more specialized fields a ~ Once agam The Campus Voice is dedicated to investigative D n en s C? e ro . l e 18 . ' , . . . U U class, academ 1 cally onented of study and a lack of diversity, e B reportmg and to upholdmg a professtonallevel of JOUrnahsm. We trust HI families and good schools. The not necessarily geographic. of the ~ n that you will find articles well-researched and thought-provoking. We II lower scores cannot be. ignored in student body. Professor Hagen ~ 1 1 . • . • • - ~ 11 these latter cases. Whtle most of felt that the tough job market has u e we come all comments, Cfltlctsms, and 1deas for future Issues. Please ~ ~ the professors agreed that the caused student~ to more clearly ~ R send all comments to the Student Activities Office, any of the editors, ~ R drop in ~.A.T. scores is part of a define their goals and speciali7e in ~ ~ or come to the Monday night meetings. Remember it will take 8 i nat~on-w1de trend, they felt that one secure field, thus precluding a ~ I . . . . ' a HI U mon should be able to sense of adventure in their 1 1 commitment from all of us to make th1s pubhcat10n work. . 81 overcome this slide. As Professor studies. He felt that this \longing ~ ~ The Editors ~I Finkelstein stated, \students have for security\ is a nation-wide \\'==«====-=>====>===-==<>=>========.....,.===o=o=..,..=-=\\\'\\\'\'\\\\'= been pour!) ltO~iaJiLcU into OCCUrrence, OUt that as SClOn as R fl d the job market opens up, students e ections· o St t G t will become more creative. by r. b. thau • n u en 0 vern men :e~of:ss~:jo~e~~~n;h?n ~~~~e~~~ There is an organization ~n campus, unbeknownst to many, known as student government (with its component parts of Student Forum and. t~e various committees). The structure is not nearly as complex as It IS made out to be. The confusion is more a symptom of the ~tudent body's lack of concern than any inherent intricacies. The tgno~a~ce of the student body towards student government not only precipitates the rumors and stories that are widely circulated on camp~s, ?ut more importantly, detracts from the efficiency of this orgamzat1on. !'he most significant reason for student body diffidence and lack of concern for student government is that the important issues the ones with implications on both a short-range and long-term seal~, are not reall~ m the hands of Student Forum. Issues such as the calendar, grad~ng plans, community participation, tuition and financial aid, and admissions practices are within the decision-making realm of the All- College Senate or Board of Trustees. In fact, there are ten student votes on the All-College Senate, but this number is still a minority and therefore of limited influence. ~ second flaw within the student governmental structure is the lack of mput from the student body on those issues over which Student Forum has jurisdiction. The committee structure seems to work with energy more perfunctory than anything else. This leads to a .sy,s~em,. supposedly designed to specialize in certain fields and attract and abilities, still agreed that the gauge student opinion, that is rarely efficient, infrequently meeting, closed job market has caused a and usually unproductive and non-contributive. The failure to garner slight decline in creativity among student input on the issues is a major communicative stumbling block students. between Forum, the committees, and the student body as a whole. It Homogeneous Group helps precipitate the lack of understanding of the governmental structure on the part of the student body, and also inhibits the efficient functioning of the Forum. A third weakness within the governmental structure, a problem especially visible this year, is an over-extension or over-ambitiousness of Forum in working on certain issues. It is the feeling of that body that the student government of recent years was a travesty, without goals or energy, and therefore without success. One of the early undertakings of the Forum this year was to change that image, but in the process it seems that possibly too much was undertaken. The power of Student Forum and its two standing committees, Audit and Committee on Committees, is limited in all but a few cases to purely student affairs. On the other hand, the student body's interest appears to be more in the direction of graduate, professional schools or the job market, and consequently, the two bodies may come into conflict or not come into contact at all. However, the Student Forum, in its seemingly unbounded energy continued on Page 4A Professor ·i idmarch noted a real homogeneity in students' perceptions and paper topics, something which he attributes to a lack of diversity among the student population at Union. While he feels that a more national student body would be good. he feels that Union could cultivate different types of people within New York State. A diversity of perceptions and backgrounds would, he feels, help stimulate more interesting discussions in class. A lack of pride in their work continued on Page 2A

Page lA STAFF: Debs Billings, Certilman, Miriam David, Hiller, Beth Karlin, Jim Messina, Ellie Nelson, Seth Barbara Shapiro, R.B. Thau Matt Brief, Andrea Harris Halpert, Arni~ : Kestenbaum, Jo-Ann Okun, Sheryl Schachne, PHOTOGRAPHERS: Howie Axelrod, Brad Barry, Ira Bernstein, Jeff Forman, Ira Goodman, Ben Rubin PHOTOGRAPHY EDITOR: Joe Tauber EDITORIAL BOARD: Judy Dein, Michael Ganz, Michael Kramer, Lee Rimsky, Richard A. Siegel Golden Voice (Written to the tune: Get us to the Church on time) The new Campus Voice has come to Union, The first issue's really looking fine. We got approval- no threat of removal- So get us to the Printers on time! The Forum has argued (and reargued) all our merits, The students have come out on our side. So now we'll show Sobol - our efforts are noble - So get us to the Printers on time! We got the stories, we got the facts, We got the funding from the student tax! So please send us all your thoughts and comments, Tell us what's going through your mind. We extend eur greetings- to come to our meetings - And help get us to the Printers on time! -= = o-= = = =-= c = = = = ~ oooc:::x: Changing Times Continued from Page 1 has hindered students from gaining as much as possible from their courses, according to Professor Wells. He notes this especially in Comp. Ed. courses where students do just enough to get by. He also feels that students are much less willing to challenge authority and are apt to believe every word the teacher says more today tan in the past. Most professors agreed that the change in students' attitudes and abilities have not been fhat great over the last few years. There is still a substantial number of excellent students, although there are also more poor students than before. For the most part the professors seemed to expect as much from students, but were not as sure of students having a basic knowledge of the subject matter of their classes. A few professors noted that their grade distributions have not really changed over the years, since the difference between an A and a 8 remains the same. It is just the absolute quality which has gone down. As Professor Tidrnarch noted, very few students have done really poor work at Union; and while the students may have to work harder and are less creative, the finished assignments are still good. Special Thanks to Ruth Rappaport for the banner· - The future of Union does not appear to be that grim, according to the faculty intereviewed. Both Professors Hagen and Reece feel that once the job market opens up, students will become more creative. Professor Reece advocates an expansion of the Cornp. Ed. program to alleviaie the specialization of students. Professor Finkelstein is ex.cited about the changes at Union College in general, and said, .. We're in a position not to hold our own but to move forward into that select group of small colleges set apart by quality and leadership.\ Both Professors Tidrnarch and Union CoUege Campus Voiee February 11, 1976 Potential for Impact When the College committee structure was revamped last spring term, new student-faculty- administration. committees were formed. In recent interviews, student members of .five of the most important of these committees s.tated they felt that the new system offers students the .potential for impact on College governance. A:ll five cautioned, however, that student members must educate themselves outside of the committee before they can have an effect. A suggestion made by Audrey Kupchan (Committe on Faculty) is worthy of note. She feels because takes a long time for a student to gain sufficient knowledge to be effective on the Committee on Faculty, student members should remain on the Committee for two years. This policy would undoubtedly increase the effect students would have on this Committee. Students by lee rimsky as Glenn perceives it, is they are s~ Advisory Board 1s to give pressed for time that it is not President Bonner student and poss~ble for the faculty members faculty input. It is also designed ~o d1scu.ss the ~ackground of ~ach to act as a type of ombudsman, Issue w~th whtch the Coi?mit~ee channelling problems toward the · d~als. Therefore, the solut~on hes proper committees. David Wtth the faculty educatmg the Moskowitz, a student 'member, students outside the Committee. says the Committee has met only Glenn suggests that although the twice this year. He el!:plains tllis is student members were \snowed\ a result ... f the fact that the at the beginning due to their lack Committee has had to rewrite its of knowl~dge, . things have charge because its original one .,changed th1s term; the students was so vague. It nas also been have . begun to increase their difficult to arrange meetings ef~ect1veness. Recent examples of around President Bonner's busy th1s are the presentation which schedule. David claims that most Glenn and Cookie did . on the of the discussions during these report concerning \The Funding two meetings were brought up by of Student Activities\ (which was students, and ·that the fa- subseq?ently accepted by the culty and President Bonner were ~<_>~rn1ttee), . aJ?d .the student- willing to listen. But the question tmttated exammatt~n of . the remains, will they do anything? future role of .ath:tettcs at Um?n. David hopes the Committee will The . EducatiOnal. Pohcy start to meet regularly this term. Comm~ttee deterrnmes the Audrey Kupcha.n of the academic pro~~ams and plans of Committee on Faculty defines the the College. Crndy Glucksman, a Committee's purpose to be the st~dent member, generally agrees determining of tenure, With Glenn Wolfson's sentiments. salary, and promotion procedures Students Offered Potential for Impact and evaluations. Unlike the other four committees, the .students on this Committee are not on equal standing with all the other members. For examnle. Audrey points ·out that students are not involved with determining faculty salaries or salary ratings. on other College committees, Planning and Priorities and Educational Policy for example, would also benefit a great deal from a lengthened appointment. Perhaps the adaptation of this idea by the Student Forum or the Committee on Committees would strengthen the students' impact on College governance. Glenn Wolfson, a member .of the Planning and Priorities Committee, believes student members can have a great influence on this Committee. The responsibility of Planning and Priorities is. generally t<>c set the goals and do the budgeting of the College. The student members are Liz Pava and Cookie Port. Although Glenn is emphatic about the potential for influence, he stresses that the student members must take the initiative and educate themselves first before they can realistically affect the decisions of the Committee. The problem with the Committee, Potts feel that a greater commitment on the .part of the college to admissions must be . made. Professor Tidmarch would like to see more students here with special interests, things they get excited about and are motivated to work on. Both Potts and Tidmarch agree that the college must be urged to really begin thinking about Union's admission program. The question still remains as to the fate of students now at Union. Both faculty and students must realize that, as Professor Hagen said, \you must be more fluid and flexible in life, and in disappointments.\ She feels if students are aggressive and take the initiative, they can affect the Committee. It has been Cindy's experience, however, that the student members have not taken advantage of this; in fact, the students rarely offer any . comments. Because of this, Cindy explains, it is difficult to gauge student's potential impact on this Committee. Don Leach of the Admissions Committee emphasizes that the student members have as much effect as faculty and administration have on this Committee, and that the students input may even exceed their proportion. Despite the fact that confidentiality is of major importance, the students are given equal standing in terms of their vole and access to applications. The only difference 1s that students may not take applications back to where they live, a measure taken to preserve confidentiality which Don feels is quite reasonable. Don points out that none of the votes taken in the Cornrnitt~<e.have divided ·along the lines between student and faculty interest, and that each member's vote is a vote for what he/ she feels is best for the College. The purpose of the Presidential The student members do not participate in rnal<mg any u:uure decisions, and they do not evaluate teachers' research. The function of the stud-ent members is to find out student opinion on, for instance, the tenure process. Only the tenured professors on the Committee can establish tenure . policy and the student members only report student op1mon. Audrey believes the student members are necessary despite the fact they are only one small patt, and stresses that many .colleges d0 not even have students on similar committees. The overall picture painted by these five committee members is one of optimism for the new College ·committee system. Generally, they see a large amount of potential for student impact in their committees. All of them stress how important it is for the student members to take initiative and prepare themselves outside of the committee. The five individuals unfortunately vary, however, in their perceptions of the amount of effort the student members have made to take advantage of the potential for student influence. Student Elitism and Apathy by andrea certilman, sheryl schachne, and beth karlin Uninvolved or unaware? A mean Streak of cynicism runs through the blood of the average student at Union College: its source - stud'ent elitism, and its cause - well, are you uninvolved or unaware? STUDENT BODY Student elitism, as applied in this article, is the condition where a small group ·of students possesses concentrated power.'\ survey is now in progress by the Politics of Activities Committee whose goal is to make activities accessible to all students. Thus far they have found, according to committee member Andy Koblenz, that a great deal of uninvolvement is due to time constraints and a lack of communication. In addition to those who are involved, there are three types of students on campus: those that don't want to get involved; those that don't know how to get involved and those that are already frustrated. RESTRUCTURED GOVERNMENT In the fall term, 1975, the government was restructured. An example of this. restructuring was an act which dispersed student power by stating that a student can only be on two committees: one student committee and one college committee. Its aim was to disperse the power among a larger group of Union students. Dean Smith believes this new government is working. \It is the best student government that I know of, and I have taken part in many.\ Smith feels it is a very independent system because it cannot be used by the faculty, and the students have access to what is going on. \There is no reason a student cannot partake in student government if he wishes to.\ Smith cited examples of students corning to him, depressed with their own lack of involvement. He told them to get in touch with the Chairman of the Committee. on Committees, who would help them to get involved as soon as new positions were available. As of yet there have been no complaints lodged by these people. continued on Page 3A • -(i:t ' ':~, J ':;~ '';\, -·. \ '1 ~{ f t{ ~ {< ~ ~ . (;> ' I> :t (. -f~ > ~ il ? ·.) \ l-~ ··. '•> ' ·. ll '~ ''I . - ·\ '. \ 1 . \'

its ost ese by ere ion the re, on not not not on, on the one by is new em. II of is five of take for the rea s to of of ved; by the the of as no J :r~ '\ •.. \ ., \~ f t{ ' ~~ ~ ~ (~ \ \,\? ._, . --~ ··. ·c> •- f ., ~- : l' . :;, •. p '. '\ l . \~ February 18;·197fi Union ·College C.mpus Voiee ~ The Roving· Reporter~ Questio.n: \If you had to compose a list entitled \The Positive and Negative Aspects of Union College\ what would you place at the head of each column?\ by barbara shapiro and seth okun Audrey Stein - Freshman - Positive•\The most positive aspect of Union is its high academic quality.\ Negative-.\The campus does not seem to have a very diversified ·population, geographically and ethnically. ·I'm from a large city public high school and I am accustomed to seeing a wide variety of people.\ ·Karen Strausfeld - Freshman - PO!!itive-\The first thing that impressed me at Union was how personalized it was, it's a very spirited campus and the people seetn to work together in many ways.\ Negati.ve-\Because -of its size, the school is limited in certain respects. I think that the moderP language department (my major) is good, but because it is small it tends to be limited in what it can offer.\ Johnny Ramel - Freshman - Positive-\U nion College has ·a relaxed atmosphere, the people are very friendly, especially the professors.\ Negathe-\What like · least about Union is having three sets ·. of finals compounded by the fact . that we get out late at the end of , the year.\ Andy Walsh - Senior - Positive,-''On the whole we have an ex.cellent faculty.\ Negative .. \The student body is too homogeneous a group, there is very Htrle geographical distribution.\ Dave Trocker -.. Junior - Positive· \Accessability of professors and their willingness to get involved, in and out of the classroom, is in my opinion a ·· positive attt:ibute.\ Negative-\Tne present Comp Ed system lacks a wide variety of courses to choose from.\ Lisa Baumwell - Senior - Positive-\The possibility of having good relations between students and faculty exists.\ · Negative-\There is no great diversity among· students, geographically, economically, and ethnically.\ r-· _·.· J Joe Zaengle - Sophomore Positive-\( think that the fraternities on campus contribute a great deal to the social life at Union, by enabling one to rneet people more easily.\ Mark Glazer - Senior - ~~- Positive-\Fraternities from my o( view (especially Chi Psi) offer great opportunities for social interaction.\ Negativt:-\I believe there is too much emphasis placed on the sport of hockey. I think this detracts f11om other sports Union has to offer. 1 just would like to make it clear that l do not dislike the team: as individuals in any wa:y.\ Joyce Kuhbach - Junior - Positive-\The class size at Union is geared for a personalized education that is made possible by the small enrollment.'' Negative·\Besides attending hockey games, students do not participate in many activities as a group.\ Robin Pellish - Sophomore - Positive-\Union College's biggest asset is its size. Not only does this make it easier for people to meet . one another, but allows for a favorable teacher student ratio as well.\ Negative-\There is a lack of variety in the courses offered and in the geographical distribution of the student body.\ Jim Di Meo - Junior - Positive-\Professors around here are pretty good, they really know what they are doing and they are friendly. We are not numbers around here as we might be in a state college.\ Negative-\The library facilities are not that great.\ Negative-\The geographical dis tri bu tio n of students IS limited.\ Professor Susan Britain Psychology Department Po$itive-\While other schools are at times very fragmented, Union College seems to have a great sense of self and community.\ Negative-\Because of tlie great dependency on professors, and in general, the never ending academic and social pressures, there is little chance for creativity and independent thinking by students.\ Professor Leslie Hull Chemistry Department Positive-·•we have good students here, l enjoy their motivation in every way.\ Negative-\1 think the tenure system is unfair, it creates two different types of citizens in a community which should be essentially equal.\ Professor William Daniels Political Science Department Positive-\The seriousness by which students pursue their classroom work (specific. assignments).\ Negative· .. The lack ol intellectual involvement not associated with classroom work For example the debate society can contribute a great deal to college life, unfortunately there is little of this type of thing here.\ Page 3A .. Elitism continued from Page lA Under the new system of government, a list was placed in the Student Activities Office . Anyone interested in being put on a committee could be signed up on the list. When a position .became available that person would be contacted. Brian Tucker, student body President, said the turnout was approximately twenty students. Is this representative of students' interest? Out of a student body of approximately two thousand, only twenty students actively voiced their gripes. This apathy can in part be due to unawareness. A better coverage of governmental functions is a possible solution. Though it is obvious that there are people who are apathetic by nature, hopefully the members of the student body who have not become involved will decrease if more publicity is given to governmental activities. DISPERSING POWER After interviewing two involved students, Paul Boyd and Brian Tucker, both representing a different faction of student interest, we found that both held common views on the subject. Each believes that student elitism exists only because students allow it to exist. Perhaps in a school this size, elitism is more readily apparent. The government has become aware of how students feel, and as a result they are trying to find a more objective means of dispersing power. One ex.ample is the use of J.D. numbers in receiving applications for committee positions. Another idea in progress is that of allowing any student who shows up at a certain number of Student Forum meetings the opportunity to vote on matters presented at the Student Forum. Hopefully, our new student government will be able to obtain its goal of dispersing power to a larger group of students. Unfortunately, as of now an elitist group does exist. In any governmental system there are both leaders and followers. But such a system can only work to its optimum potential if the leaders and followers are loyal critics of each other. The only way to combat an elitist group is by improving communication and encouraging participation. Professor Robert Baker Philosophy Department Positive-\The students, they are bright and serious. I have a deep affiliation with people who come from the East Coast.\ Negative-\U nion lacks an intellectual center; a natural place outside of class where people can just get together and talk.\ The Campus Voice would like to extend a special thanks to Sam and A l for their support and patience.

.. February 18, 1976 Union College Campus Voice S_ocial Responsibility and Security by mnchael kramer and richard a. siegel Union, as an institution, is comprised of various relationships between different factions on campus. The structure and format of life on campus is ultimately a result of administrative dc;cisions that take student input into account to varying degrees. The amount and manner in which students take responsibility for their dissatisfaction can alter what happens here. The following responses are the result of· a survey developed by Michael Kramer and Richard Solomon for Prefessor Walbek's P.S. 136 course. The survey was designed to obtain an overview of life at Union. There seems to be an undercurrent in the survey results that \Union does not meet the needs of its students.\ Looking at this statement, it seems that students place all the responsibility for change upon the college rather than on the individual. Yet in a healthy relationship of any sort, the responsibility for satisfying the needs of all concerned is the responsibility of all concerned. Academic Needs Union is undoubtedly meeting the academic needs of a large majority of students in offering them an education, and, as some view it, a good chance for success in the future. Most of the freshmen who answered a question about why they came to Union indicated its size, reputation and distance from home as the most predominant reasons with reputation the most common .response. One freshwoman simply stated that Union has \what I need in order to achieve my final goal.\ The percentage of Union students that are goal oriented is very high; and these people, by the simple fact that they have some sort of direction and orientation to their life, are dealing with their own needs and desires by coming to Union. · Social Needs There seems to be a silent war being fought every day about whether or not the college, as an institution, should support students' non-academic endeavors. Ideally, students should take more of the responsibility for their own social life instead of putting the responsibility on the institution. Taking responsibility means accepting the consequences of one's action or lack of action. If one is not satisfied with the academic or social philosphy of the institution, one should change it - if that is what one wants. According to the survey, it seems that people's dissatisfaction with the colle,re is really a result l\ .· ·.· r 1 ' was interviewed. He stated that the present policy was instituted to cut down on thefts from students, which have occurred in tlie past. At present,. only the main entrances to Richmond, West and North, as well as the rear doors to South, are unlocked from 7 AM till 9 PM. Mr. Wood stated that a satisfactory level of security can be maintained at thesf dorms with the doors unlocked. F~x. Davison and Webster are locked twenty-four hours. \Fox and Davison are locked primarily to .prevent bicycle ~hefts.\ Webster is locked because 1t faces Union Street and \is at the mer~y of dissatisfaction with themselves. Most people came here with a goal and a directioll. They attempted to achieve and achieve and then realized that they were working and not feeling that anything of consequence or reward was happening to them. This dissatisfacti<>n with themselves was then transferred to the institution, whicb removed from themselves any responsibility for their feelings. · of anyone who wished to drive up to it.\ The main purpose of this policy is to \keep non-campus people from walking into the · ·· · ' . ·· . ' · · · · - dorms. Why _give them a chance to play the game; acceptmg and when you don't have to?\ the rules the · ~2~--~ ~-.--~··· Maintaining the System Year after year one's ,investment in remaining at Union !Jecomes greater. People realize that they have been part of a system that has experienced change in some ways but not in others. A male junior stated, \I l>elive the administration is in the midst of a change that is good - it makes members of the Union family feel something good will be happening soon.\ This idea ()f the Adminstration experiencing a change that will ultimately be beneficial to the Union family reinforces what was previously stated about change occu ring through some act ()f the administration. Yet, the same person commented about his satisfaction with Union, its .lack of change, academically as well as socially; \Although the comr>etitiveness of Uni()n put.s a damper on academic spirit, 1 feel I am still satisfied, since most schools of this quality and caliber would have the same conditions.\ Academically he seems to be dissatisfied with the spirit, as a result of the competitivene.ss, but seems as if he is Other colleges have used a rescued from his variety of methods of controlling own destruction when he access to their dorms. Mr. Wood rationalizes the lack of change by stating that all institutions of this caliber would be like t~is. In effect, he rewards himself or rationalizes putting up with the system. He is goal oriented and fosters 'competitiveness when he· responus to the question of his satisfaction at Union socially; \No there exists a point where I must decide whether going out for an evening will affect my grades As much as the competitive spirit ......... ttino tn ltirn. he C:QntinuP.S responds to things he would like discussed a few of them. The to reinforce at Union, \the young spirit, that has suddenly come alive with the revamping of the administration.\ Thus, students find themselves conforming with Union's system and waiting for change. Cognitive dissonance, (the discrepancy between what exists and one's perception of reality) seems to play a part in setting limits that \make it\ all right to stick to previously set norms or rules. Maybe suddenly changing the values and philosophy of tl:!e institution is too strong. Maybe re-evaluating one's own posltion within the system and how we each affect the process at Union is what is needed. Why should this occur at a point in one's career with so much time invested in one behavior, with such a small allotment of time to go before; one'sgoals are obtained? This type of action might damage one:s future. College Responsibility These are all questions that are the responsibility of the students to answer for themselves. This is the student's responsibility within the relationship.• The other side of the question is, where and what is the responsibility of the college to the student? This was found to be a complex problem and no simple solutions can be offered. However, one aspect of this problem is that we, as students, have not taken the responsibility to ... ublicly state our dissatt:sYaction and our desires. This is the case with respect to student dissatisfaction with finding the dorm doors locked. Many students interviewed felt that this discouraged or prevented socializing. One student who lived above the doors at West complained that snowballs thrown by people wanting to get in cracked her windows. Most of us have known the frustration of unceasingly pounding on doors until someone let us in. In order to clarify existing policies and examme possible alternatives, Cliff Wood, Director of Security, possibility of a locking mechanism in which a student's ID was the key was rejected because of costs, especially in lieu of this summer's replacement of the building locks. A centrex phone placed outside each door would enable visitors to call in to those they wished to visit. Mr. Wood believed \this would be fine until someone got mad and ripped the phone off the wall. The cost of constantly repairing the phone would be too high.\ Students interviewed suggested these two possibilities: placing a buzzer/doorbell outside the main entrance and establishing a 'mini security desk' in each dorm with a Grant in\Aid on duty untill II or 12 at night. Mr. Wood stated that the buzzer 1 doorbell idea would be unsatisfactory because., \students would get ured of answering the door.\ This could also lead to higher security risks because, \students have been reluctant to ask .othl'rs what they were doing here.\ Mr. Wood felt that students didn't want the mini-security desks established. He stated that Grants In ·Aid at the security desks in Richmond and North have been harrassed by l>tudents. He has reccivcdmany complaints. ,:: .......... Page 4A ••students don't carry. their ID's and get angry when asked to present them.\ Mr. Wood did state his willingness to work with students in order ta satisfy them. \If we could find some way that would work better, we would bend in shape to fit tltat way.\ It is clearly our re.sponsibility as students to state our wants. Are we willing to carry I D's or answer a buzzer, or confront strangers and ask theni their business in order to have better access to our· friends in · dorms? More · importantly. are we willing to contact those that have the power to act upon our requests? ln this case,. Mr. Wood has expJ;essed a willingness to change to better satisfy student needs. It is our responsibility to make a definite statement to him ·(and others in power) of exactly what it is we want. We can improve our social situation and affect policy on campus if we m:e W.illing to organize and establish means of communication with each other and with those in power. Perhaps the most satisfactory solution to the dorm problem would be to have mini-security desks monitored by Grants-in- Aid. This policy would improve students access to each dorm and at the same time further increase security. The inconvenience of carrying an lD is, it seems, minimal. Students can voice their opinions by responding to and returning the housing questionnaire that was distributed through campus mailboxes. Students are urged to exhibit some responsibility and respond to this questionnaire It is our school and we should make if conform to our needs whenever possible. Government continued from Page lA to succeed, has taken over · the reins of leadership that had frequently been unheld. The initiation of new policies and projectw, the attempts to attract greater student participation and contribution, culminating in the Town Meeting, and regular meetings and follow-ups with Saga, the bookstore, the library, and other groups have provided a much needed impetus for improving various aspects of student life. It is extremely frustrating to many of the participants and representatives in student government that there is so little positive support from the campus community. This reason is more important than is obvious at first sight. As with any successful r·epresentative government, there should be participation and encouragement if effort and the realization of goals is to take place. R .B. Thau has recently resigned from his position on the Audit Committee, Student Forum and as Chairman of the Conduct- Ombudsman Committee. < .t •ff:o • ···1{!

.• February 18, 1976 Union College Campus Voice Social Responsibility and Security by michael kramer and richard a. siegel Union, as an institution, is comprised of various relationships between different factions on campus. The structure and format of life on campus is ultimately a result of administrative decisions that take student input into account to varying degrees. The amount and manner in which students take responsibility for their dissatisfaction can alter what happens here. I ' ' i I was interviewed. He stated that the present policy was instituted to cut down on thefts from st.udents, whicH have occurred in the past. At present, only the main entrances to Richmond, West and North, as well as the rear doors to South, are unlocked from 7 AM till 9 PM. Mr. Wood stated that a satisfactory level of security can be maintained at thest dorms with the doors unlocked. Fox, Davison and Webster arc locked twenty-four hours. \Fox and Davison are locked primarily to prevent bicycle thefts.\ Webster is locked because it faces Union Street and \is at the mercy of anyone who wished to drive up to it.\ The main purpose of thts policy is to \keep. no~-campus people from walkmg mto the · . . dorms. Why give them a chance to play the game; acceptmg and when you don't have to?\' plaving by the rules keeps the Page 4A \Students don't carry. their ID's and get angry when asked to present them.\ Mr. Wood did state his willingness to work with students in order to satisfy them. \If we could find some way that would work better, we would bend in shape to fit that way.\ The following responses are the result of a survey developed by Michael Kramer and Richard Solomon for Professor Walbek's P.S. 136 course. The survey was designed to obtain an overview of life at Union. There seems to be an undercurrent in the survey results that \Union does not meet the needs of its students.\ Looking at this statement, it seems that students place all the responsibility for change upon the college rather than on the individual. Yet in a healthy relationship of any sort, the responsibility for satisfying the needs of all concerned is the responsibility of all concerned. of dissatisfaction with themselves. Most people came here with a goal and a direction. They attempted to achieve and achieve and then realized that they were working and not feeling that anything of consequence or reward was happening to them. This dissatisfaction with themselves was then transferred to the institution, which removed from themselves any responsibility for their feelings. ~~l- ..... -·-\'··~·'•'*\ lit is clearly our responsibility as students to state our wants. Are we willing to carry I D's or answer a buzzer, or confront strangers and ask them their business in order to :have better access to our friends in dorms? More importantly, are we willing to contact those that have the p<Z~wer ~o act upon our requests? In this case, Mr. Wood aas expressed a willingness to change to better satisfy student needs. It is our responsibility ~o make a definite statement to him ·(and others in power) of exactly what it is we want. We can improve our social situation and affect policy on · i campus if we are wifling to Academic Needs L:nion is undoubtedly meeting the academic needs of a large majority of students in offering them an education, and, as some view it, a good chance for success m the future. Most of the freshmen who answered a question about why they came to Union indicated its site, reputation and distance !rom home as the most predominant reason~ with reputation the most common response. One fre~hwoman simply stated that Cnion has \what I need in order to achieve my final goal.\ The percentage of lJ nion students ' that are goal oriented is very high; and these people, by the simple fact that they have some sort of direction and orientation to their life. are dealing with their own needs and desire~. by coming to Union. Social Needs fhere seems to be a silent war being fought every day about whether or not the college, as an institution. should support students' non-academic endeavors. Ideally. students should take more of the responsibility for their own social life instead of putting the responsibility on the institution. laking responsibility means accepting the consequences of one's action or lack of action. If one is not satisfied with the academic or social philosphy of the institution, one should change it - if that is what one wants. According to the survey, it seems that people's dissatisfaction with the colle,ze is really a result Maintaining the System Year atter yearone's investment in remaining at Union becomes greater. People realize that they have been part of a system that has experienced change in some ways but not in others. A male junior stated. \I belive the administration is in the midst of a change that is good - it makes members of the Union family feel something good will be happening soon.\ This idea of the Adminstration experiencing a change that will ultimately be beneficial to the Union family reinforces what was previously stated about change occuring through some act of the administration. Yet. the same person commented about his satisfaction with Union. its lack of change, academically as well as sociallv; \Although the competitiveness of Union puts a damper on academic spirit, I feel I am still satisfied, since most schools of this quality and caliber would have the same conditions.\ Academically he seems to be dissatisfied with the spirit. as a result of the competitiveness. but rallonalizcs the lack of change by ~tatmg that all Institutions of this caliber would be like this. In effect. he rewards himself or rationali7es putting up with the system. He is goal oriented and fosters ·competitiveness when he responus to the question of his satisfaction at Union socially; \No there exists a point where I must decide whether going out for an evening will affect my grades As much as the competitive spirit to !tim. he continv~s game alive. It seems as if he is waiting to be rescued from his own destruction when he responds to things he would like to reinforce at Union, \the young spirit. that has suddenly come alive with the revamping of the administration.\ Thus, students find themselves conforming with Union's system and waiting for change. Cognitive dissonance. (the discrepancy between what exists and one's perception of reality) seems to play a part in setting limits that \make it\ all right to stick to previously set norms or rules. Maybe suddenly changing the values and philosophy of the institution is too strong. Maybe re-evaluating one's own position within the system and how we each affect the process at Union is what is needed. Why should this occur at a point in one's career with so much time invested in one behavior, with such a small allotment of time to go before one'sgoals are obtained? This type of action might damage one's future. College Responsibility These are all questions that are the responsibility of the students to answer for themselves. This is the student's responsibility within the relationship .. The other side of the question is, where and what is the responsibility of the college to the student? This was found to be a complex problem and no simple solutions can be offered. However, one aspect of this problem is that we, as students, have not taken the responsibility t 0 IP 'ublicly State 0 U r dissatl:Saction and our desires. This is the case with respect to student dissatisfaction with finding the dorm doors locked. Many students interviewed felt that this discouraged or prevented socializing, One student who lived above the doors at West complained that snowballs thrown by people wanting to get in cracked her windows. Most of us have known the frustration of unceasingly pounding on doors until someone let us in. In order to clarify existing policies and examme possible alternatives, Cliff Wood, Director of Security, .,. Other colleges have used a variety of methods of controlling access to their dorms. Mr. Wood discussed a few of them. The possibility of a locking mechanism in which a student's ID was the key was rejected because of costs, especially in lieu of this summer's replacement of the building locks. A centrex phone placed outside each door would enable visitors to call in to those they wished to visit. Mr. Wood believed \this would be fine until someone got mad and ripped the phone off the wall. The cost of constantly repairing the phone would be too high.\ Students interviewed suggested these two possibilities: placing a buzzer 1 doorbell outside the main entrance and establishing a 'mini security desk' in each dorm with a Grant in \Aid on duty untill II or 12 at night. Mr. Wood stated that the buzzer I doorbell idea would be unsatisfactory because , \students would get ured of answering the door.\ This could also lead to higher security risks because, \students have been reluctant to ask others what they were doing here.\ Mr. Wood felt that students didn't want the mini-security desks established. He stated that Grants In ·Aid at the security desks in Richmond and North ha vc been harrassed by ~tudents. He has received many complaints. organize and establish means of communication with each other and with those in power. Perhaps the most satisfactory solution to the dorm problem wou·ld be to have mini-security desks monitored by Grants-in- Aid. This policy would improve students access to each dorm and at the same time further increase security. The incomcnicnce of carrying an \ D is, it seems, mimmaL Students can voice their opinions by responding to and returning the housing questionnaire that was distributed through campus mailboxes. Students are urged to exhibit some responsibility and respond to this questionnaire It is our ~chou! and we should make if conform to our needs whenever possible. Government continued from Page lA to succeed, has taken over · the reins of leadership that had frequently been unheld. The initiation of new policies and projectw, the attempts to attract greater student participation and contribution, culminating in the Town Meeting, and regular meetings and follow-ups with Saga, the bookstore, the library, and other groups have provided a much needed impetus for improving various aspects of student life. It is extremely frustrating to many of the participants and representatives in student government that there is so little positive support from the campus community. This reason is more important than is obvious at first sight. As with any successful representative government, there should be partiCipation and encouragement if effort and the realization of goals is to take place. R.B. Thau has recently resigned from his position on the Audit Committee, Student Forum and as Chairman of the Conduct- Ombudsman Committee. 'tt ~' ' . . .. .l

' t ! ! I I I I· _. ·~ ··) ,. ~ ' ·~ \ ' ;; ., ~i i \ I I I ,, 'J .i i '~ ~ '·./ . i .., \i I ' -, I ' .i '.{ i ' J • unton · colle e · Vol. 105, No. 16 Wednesday, February 25, 1976 • • on cor tensts Professor Women applicants decline by DAVID MOSKOWITZ Witi'l' deadlines passed, Union's Department of Admissions has recorded an increase in applications of 13% for the class of 1980 while at the same time noting a decline of 19 applications from women. Accordin.g to Admissions Director Jay Shupe, the decrease in applications came as somewhat of a surprise. \What concerns me more than the decrease of 19 is that other formerly all-male institutions are showing large increases.\ While Union's class of 1980 had 744 women applicants, Williams Co!Iege listed 1865 female applicants, an increase Male Female Total Male Female Total Arts 757 498 1255 Arts 910 467 1377 1975 Sciences 547 221 768 1976 Sciences 629 221 850 En gin. 5-Year 304 23 35 9 339 32 En gin. 5-Year 392 35 48 8 450 43 A,pplications as of February 20, 1976 there of 9r; 0 . Shupe feels that last year's increase in women's applications (from 590 to 763) left Union on a sort of plateau. Other schools that Shupe considers similar to Union, Lafayette and Franklin and Marshall, are showing plateaus. similar Total 1631 763 2394 Total 1966 744 2710 application Berthold tenure deCision questioned The reasons for the decline in women's applications may be socio-economic. Shupe said that in \our sexist society, if given the choice, parents will tend to spend their money on their sons rather than daughters.\ Also, Union has a smaller population (20%) of prep school school students than most other schools of its size. Shupe explains that such patterns will reflect the school's basic social background. by NEAL A. SCHWARTZ There has been much talk of late about the. tenure proc;ess at Union College. Howard Berthold was not granted tenure, as the most recent case in point, An examination of the tenure process is worth noting. As described in the Faculty Manual, Sec. IV-2, \If a candidate has been recommended for consideration for tenure by the Department and his consideration approved by the Dean of the Faculty and the Advisory Committee, the President or the Provost will appoint an ad hoc committee in consultation with the Advisory Committee, to examine the record of each candidate for tenure and to report its findings, · witti a recommendation for or against, to the Advisory Comm,ittee.\ · The ad hoc committ~e. after being formed, follows the guidelines as follows, \ ... there are no rigid formulae to rule your recommendations on tenurability, but there ·are general guiding standards. The quality of the candidate's teaching and scholarship and his non-academic service to the College are major cons ide rations: a It hough tenurability does nqt require a truly outstanding level of achievement in aH categories, the candidate must be at least strong in one of the first two, superior in the other, and genuinely above the average overall.\ Thus, as the process has been described above, an ad hoc committee makes judgment on three citeria: teaching, research, and community involvement. The committee then makes its report to the Advisory Committee (the Committee on Faculty). In determining the scholarship (research) of the professor being considered for tenure, it is said that, \unless an article . or book has been published by a prestigious journal or press which requires referees' reports, the writing should be sent out for evaluation by experts with whom neHher the candidates nor his chairman has close personal ties.\ The ad hoc committee does meet with the Advisory Committee to explain any ambiguities in the. report. The chairl)lan of the Advisory Committee then submits to the These responses were directed to Provost and the President of the the ad hoc committee. After College a written statement of its deliberation, the ad hoc decision. The decision is then committee submitted its written passed fn;>_m the President ~of ~!1~ .. --. report. An . und,i~closed, reliable College to the Board of Trustees source made it clear to Concordy of the College, who vote on the that the ad hoc committee tenurability of the professor in presented a unanimous favorable question. recommendation to the Advisory With respect to Dr. Howard Committee (Faculty Committee). Berthold's case, there are several In the light of this, it is clear that interesting points. ln the fall, the Advisory Committee reversed notices were placed in Concordy this decision. concerning comments on the Professor Berthold feels that tenurability of Howard Berthold. there are kinds of research that are more important at Union other than those which elicit praise from outside sources. There is an apparent discrepancy in values with reg~rd. to. what type of research should be most important. This difference in values apparently divided the Advisory Committee (Faculty Committee) and the ad hoc committee. Prof. Berthold will have by the end of the year directed 25 studies by students, which have or will Continued on Page 8 Admissions this year were far behind last year's levels until a late surge of applicants changed the situation. \Five weeks ago we were 8% behind last year's applications,\ says Shupe, but the surge pushed applications to their present level of 316 ahead of 1975. Shupe attributes the male application increase to many factors; the boost in athletic programs and the publicity given to Union's fraternity anniversary being among them. Achilles heroes make playoffs by DAVID SANDERSON As the hockey season comes to a close, the prospects for Union's varsity hockey team to compete in post season action are a foregone conclusion. The team's credentials are impressive. In Division II play, the team holds a 13-1 record which gives it the Western Division lead and a second place ranking overall behind .perennial power Merrimack. The team also owns a 20-2 season record, · including a fifteen game winning streak. These statistics stead Union in fine fashion not only to participate in the post season tournament but also possibly to host several of the games. Since the post season competition is an ECAC regional tournament, NESCAC schools are able to fully compete in the Division li Hockey play-offs. (In 1975 Bowdoin was the tournament champion and Hamilton runner-up.) The 1976 Division II Hockey Tournament will be conducted over a one- week period beginning on March 6th with the quarter-finals; the semi-finals will be held on March lOth, and the finals on March 13th.. Eight teams will be chosen to be in the tournament out of the 28 teams in Division II. The selection of the eight teams will be done by a committee of six Athletic Directors chosen from various Division II schools. The selection committee will split into an East subcommittee composed of the Athletic Directors from Aml}erst, Lowell, and Bowdoin, and a West subcommittee composed of the Athletic Directors from Buffalo, _.Army, and Hamilton to select its top representative for the tournament. Presumably this will be the team with the best record in their re~pective Division. The selection committee will then convene as a whole to select the remaining six teams for the tournament and to seed the entire field of eight. The two top selections will not necessarily be seeded 1-2; rather the committee as a whole will evaluate the entire eight team field before selecting the seeds. The top four teams will have home ice advantage. This advantage will remain with the highest seeded surviving teams as the tournament progresses, thus emphasizing the importance of a Continued on Pa2e 8 Prospera invites you to his enchanted island for the Mountebanks' production of The Tempest. See page 4 for loads more information.

Page2 - . . ·. . ' . . . . . . ~ . ' ·. . . . .. ' . ' . ' . ' . ' . . ' :: / . WRUC elects new The WR UC elections were held last Monday for the five executive board positions. The elected students will initiate policy decisions and make appointments in order to ensure the proper operation of WR UC from the spring trimester of this year through the winter term of the 1976-77 school year. originally applied for. WR UC, as usual, welcomes all comments and criticism about its present operation. Three members of the WRUC will attend the International Col,legiate Broadcast System convention the weekend of March 5, 6, and 7. The event will take place at the Benjamin Franklin Hotel in Philadelphia, and will be board highlighted by a talk by WNBC's Don lmus. The convention will be a large collection of college radio station .personnel from across . the country. Workshops and speeches will comprise the majority of the convention. WRUC was one of the founding members of the !.B.S., when it came into existence in 1941. Businefj'S drive goal el)et The goal of the Sixth Annual Business Drive to .aid Union College has been set at $100,000. Drive Chairman Clinton A. Braidwood, President of Schenectady Chemicals made the announcement Monday night. Local businessmen have already put the drive one-third of the way toward the g0·a1 by contributing more than $36,000. Elected were: Lloyd Saberski, General Manager and President; Robert Beatty, Station Manager; Neal Adam Schwartz, Program Director; Stephen Blonsky, Promotion Director; and Kurt Assassination expert to speak. \Gentlemen this is a good business to have in the community,'; Braidwood said of the College. \We .have to help keep it healthy.\ President Thgmas N. Bonner said he foresees a \new partnership\ between the College and the community. \We share a. common history, common purposes and a common destiny,\ Bonner said. \We are affected by the same forces - the sway of economic trends, the shifts in politics, the . Melden, Technical· U1rector. Also discussed at the meeting was the status of the station's 10,000 Watt application. A few complications have appeared which may delay the chances of the. power increase. The Federal Communications Commission is now considering application to a Vermont group for the same frequency. If an increase in power is at all possible in the near future, there exists the chance that WRUC may be forced to settle for less power than Gatesmen Applications The question of conspiracy in American assassinations has flared up once again. lhe CIA hearings, recent CBS documentaries, and numerous articles have all given rise to one crucial question, have our leaders such as the Kennedys, King, and even Wallace been rut down by a lone assassin's bullet or were they the object of a larger conspiracy, one which has remained undiscovered by the authorities, covered up by the authorities, and/ or participated in by the authorities. Admissions Office by interviewing applicants. Applications should be On Wednesday, March 3rd at 8:00 in SS 016, Speaker's Forum will present Rusty Rhodes, who will use slides and film to attempt to show that there are too many questions involved for the American public to let the lone assassin theories stand. Mr. Rhodes is an acclaimed expert in the field of conspiracy in assassinations. He has appeared before Congressional Committees and has lectured at most major universities. . Admission is 25~~: for students, 75rr. for everyone else· including faculty and staff. Please come early, a .large crowd is expected. Sociology courses Two new courses will be offered.. by the Sociology Department during spring term. a wide range of students in the course, but it will be limited to twenty students. Pr o f e s s o r S c h n e II e r , Chairperson of Union's Sociology Department, will be teaching a new course entitled \Formal Organizations.\ expectations for the future. , \We can move together to ; · ! .. '. '1 change these forces - to recover ·· .~ our nerve, our faith in the future, · i our shaken belief in ourselves,\ he · · '.j continued. '< .\ Bonner pointed out that Union · '1 College has been indebted to the t citizens of Schenectady since the , ~t college's founding, when they 1 .. 1 provided necessary funds. Furthermore, he said, ; .} 'j Schenectady Citizens built ' : i Memorial Chapel and General ; Electric made the college a \world : ,\ < center for the study of electrical ·~ engineering.\ · · l \Union has •been, and wil4 1 i remain, not only a college in the city, but a college of the city,'' he said. i f ,' ~ ,. . I .. Book two th< and ex1 Commi Finke lsi are lear hard Wl The up of I beginni1 films. F and .v membet your rr movies. Blazing Murder this ter Scenes Young spring) to $751 showin~ anywhe apiece,; Gone ~ cost $3: was her< Becat populat capacit~ -lecture facilitie~ prices Comirlil admissi< the q'ua but no Applications for the Gatesmen will be available on Monday, March 2, in the Admissions Office. The Gatesmen is the honorary group of students serving the Admissions Office by giving campus tours to visitors, applicants and parents. Senior G a t e s m en a s s i.s t t h e returned by April 16 (early ap.plications will be appreciated). Interviews will be held during spring term. If you will be away next term or if you have any questions, contact Lisa Tietz, 372-0804, Box 1757. Professor Everett Stonequist, former head of the. Sociology Department at Skidmore, will teach a course entitled \Social Change.\ He is a widely- published sociologist and author of 'Uhe Marginal Man. Professor Stonequist has not taught for a number of years, but has been very active in the community affairs of Saratgga, where he resides. The course will look at the various organizations which shape us into the people we are. The course will examine the effects of educational institutions, asylums, prisons, etc. on the society. Schneller will examine how these organizations construct reality for the individual. All students interested in ~ing considered for the position of Resident Advisor in 1'76-77 should fill out an appHeation form in the · Housing Offie.e before W .. .;~!'lMday, March 10. Early applieaUons wlU . be apppreciated. Late applica- tions for good reasons win be accepted. \;Tat 11• C~ndidates speak** Elections will be held for Junion class representative to the Student Forum on Monday, March 1. The following are the statements of two candidates for that position. Marcus Heth \In your opm10n, what is the biggest problem with student government at Union?\ I confronted over I 00 students with this question as I sought signatures for my petition. I first wish to thank all those who responded. The responses varied; however, they can be categorized into two basic problems: representation and communication Many students feel that the representativeness of the student body by the government could be greatly increased. The students do not feel the government is actively seeking their opinions and ideas. I agree, and this was my major reason for running. Of course, the student government is not totally to blame, for the students must also se!i!k out their representatives. However, the initial effort must come from the representatives. They should go to floor meetings, visit fraternities, and arrange meetings for off-campus students, in order to present issues and seek opinions and .. ideas. Students complain of not knowing who their representatives are and of only hearing about issues after they have been decided. This can be remedied by further use of Concordy and WRUC. A publicity campaign in Concordy featuring pictures and names of representatives, and other pertinent information should be run at the beginning of each year in order that all students, especially freshmen, are familiar with the government. Representatives' names, addresses and phone numbers should also be listed frequently by Concordy. When important issues arise, the pros and cons should be reported by Concordy and WRUC well in · advance of a vote, so that students can express their informed opinions to their representatives. Thank you for your concern. Please remember to vote. Lisa.Baron After having filled in for a representative much of last year, and also this past term, I have become involved in the student government. As such, I have decided .to run for the position for which I am serving as a proxy. Some people want to know what the role of the student government plays here at Union. For those of you truly interested, the best I can suggest is to come to a meeting of the Student Forum and see for yourself what exactly does go on. The opportunity exists for anyone to put in input and believe me, as an acting member, we are more than happy to li~ten. The basic problem seems to be getting the apathetic majority interested in wha\ the students themselves can do to change things which they find to be unsatisfactory. To do this, the students must be made aware of the Student Forum and the role that they themselves can play in effecting change. The Forum is presently working on this problem of communication, and by greatly publicizing what student government is doing, this problem should be alleviated. Professor Stonequist would like Spring term class.es wiU begin at 8:30 a.m. on Monday, March 29th. Student schedules wiU be distributed to college mailboxes prior to the beginning of classes. Students who do not receive a copy of their class schedule will be able to secure a copy at 'the Alumni Gymnasium at 8:00 a.m. on the first day of classes. Formal registration and validation of I. D. cards will take place in the Gymnasium on Monday and Tuesday, March 29th and 30th, from 8:45 to 11:30 a.m. and from 1:00 to 4:00 p.m. Students should report as follows: Last Name Report A-E ......... , . Monday a.m. F-K . . . . . . . . . . . Monday p.m. L-R . . . . . . . . . . . Tuesday a.m. S-Z . . . . . . . . . . . Tuesday p.m. Students may report at a time ' other than above should classes interfere. Schedules will not be made available nor registration permitted if a student has not settled his winter. term bill and any other outstanding indebtedness to the College. The Business Office will handle late payment of term bills and resolve billing problems in the Alumni Gymnasium. Completion of and changes in schedules will be handled at the Gymnasium from 8:45 a.m. to 4:00 p.m., except for the noon hour. Friday, April 2nd, is the last day fo.r making schedule adjustments. \Pass-Fail\ requests may be filed during the first three weeks of the terrn. The deadline is April 16th. FORTENCEm YOU COULD SAVE A FRIEND'S LIFL A phone.call A simrle. !hat the drunk drivers responsible .f:'------------ 1 f('n cent phone call for a cab could for killing young people arc most I DRUNK DRIVER. DEPT. Y*' I f>:lvl' ~·our fm·nd'~ hfr often other young people BOX 2345 If your friend hns been Taken min me. Spend a I ROCKVILLE. MARYLAND 20852 I drmkmp, roo murh. h(' shouldn't dirnr. Call a rah Thai's oil. If you 1 1 want to save a friend'slife 1 be dnvmg. can't do that. d11VC h1m yourself. I Tell me what. e-lse I can do. ' I 1 hr automob1lt> craf.h as !he Or let ham sleep on your couch My name 18 _____ _ number onccaust>ofdt>ath.of people We're not askino you Ia be I I t\lrr Addres&•------- your age Ami tlw •rome thmg m a dotlor or a rop Just a ncnd 1 C•IY Stotc __ z,p_ 1 L_ ____________ _. IF vou 1n A FRIEND .,,,%JE DRUNK, vou~I'E .. Io ... I:IIINa. o Our jet fares to Burogeare lesslhan anrother sclieduled airline's. But our • SfrVIC8 ISn't. If you are under 22, our youth fare is made for you. $360 round-trip in April & May-$410 in June, July and August. Great food and service, dir('lct flights from New York and Chicago with connections from other cities to Luxembourg in the heart of Europe. Fares subject to change. See your travel agent, campus rep, or write: Icelandic Airlines, 630 Fifth Ave., N.Y., N.Y. 10020. Xz 9 ICElANDIC CN .. I '~ ' t \ l ' \ l I f J ~ I ' ~ ·' -I ' i ! i I t ~ l i \ .. \ l , ... I ~: ' ' I r > ' ,. On 1 '17, the ·Tau Be1 membe1 Associ; enginee: was fo approp superi exemph void student: ackno' affordec the Lib primari and it that ser professi In a which c - s 1. ( bla< 2.P he a 3.L or d 4.1 inb S.II diffi< swa 6.c inw 7.N or h If yo sign I CA~ THIS SPA

of lp nt p\ a d. to he he CONCOR~l~MS!S, Wednesday, Feb. 25, 1976 Page3 Spring term films ~'-'\~ -·;_ :J ; .\! . ' ' i . ':; . ' :'·'·l . ·~ . ' ',; \ ) i l Booking films for a school of two thc;msand is both a difficult and expensive process. The Film Committee, lieaded by Susan Finkelstein and Michael Marks, are learning thi1> procedure ~ the hard way. The Film Committee is made up of I I students who meet at the beginning of each term to vote on films. Films are chosert, veted fur, and ,worked by committee members; those people who take your money also decided your movies. First-run films, such as Blazing Saddles, Lel)ny, and Murder On The Orient Express this term (and Love and Death, Scenes From A. Marriage, and Young Fran~enstein coming this spring) cost anywhere from $450 to $750 each for a two-night showing. Week-day films cost anywhere from $60 to $150 apiece, and, special shows, such as Gone With The Wind this term cost $35<> for the thr¢e nigh.~; it was her<e. Because of Union's . small population. and the limited capacity of SSOl6, the only lecture hall with sufficient facilities to. show mevies. t)1ese prices are ·quite dear. The . Committee has considered. raising admission prices and/ or cutting the quality of the films ordered, but none of these suggestions ~ ' .' ~ ,. . ' :Tau Beta Pi ;: - I . I i On Tuesday evening, ·february ' 17, the Union College Chapter of , . ·Tau Beta Pi initiated sixteen new members. The Tau Beta Pi Association is a national engineering honor societY which was formed in .1885 to offer ' ' < ~ -, -.{ ·.! i . -~ ~ '-\ \ ; I f ,! I ; l l I I l '. ~ ! I I l l ~ l j I ( l \ .. \ ' , ... I ~: ' • I 1· ' < ,. t ! l .I ( l i . / ' appropriate recognition for superior scholarship and exemplary character. It filled a void by offering technical students the same type of acknowledgement as that afforded by . Phi Beta Kappa in· the Liberal Arts.· Tau Beta Pi is primarily' a student organization, and it is tile only honqr society that serves the entire engineering profession. · ln a ceremony at Hale House, which was attended by Mr. .... .. ~.-it· :t ~; Cancer's • warn1ng signals: 1. Change in bowel or bladder habits. 2.A sore that does not heal. 3. Unusual bleeding or discharge. ~-Thickening or lump m breast or elsewhere. S.Jndigestion or difficulty in swallowing. ~·Obvious change In wart or mole.· 7 .Nagging cough or hoarseness. I~ you have a warning sign, see your doctor! AMERICAN i CANCER SOCIETY \ THIS SPACE CONTRIBUTED BY THE PUBliSHER· SPECIAL TO CONCORDlENSIS seem to allow the Committee to suffici~ntly fulfiH what it feels its obligation is to the College in p:roviding a diversified gf(i)up of films. A major university can draw three thousand people to a movie on a weekend, and thus handle the rather exhorbitant prices of first-run films. Union's Film Committee can rarely break even; an excellent weekend sees only 500 people here. Movie prices. Would have to be doubled for any substantial profit to be made . Yet even with the technical .and financial difficulties of securing and showing films at Union, first- run nlms do come to the College, and will continue to this spring term. Films are presently booked as foHows:* Weekend of: April 3 - Love and Dea!th April 10 - The Godfather (Part I) April 17- The Apprenticeship of Duddy Kra'vitz · April 24 -Save the Tiger May I - A Touch of Class May 8 ~Wet Rainbow (rated X) May 15 - Scenes From A Marriage May 22- Shampoo May 29 - At Long Last Love June 5 - Young Frankenstein honors 16 Thomas Linville, the Association's national president, the following were initiated: Class of 1976 John H. Westerman Jr. Richard C. Jesionowski Brenda J. Silver William H. Wetterau David A. Hardman Mark S. Birrittella Anthony M. Ho Lawrence J. Vosh Class of 1977 Elaine C. Knickmeyer David A. Dombrowski. Yuen Hung Chan Kevin J. Harkenrider James F. Tremlett Martin Pike Francis C. Pangie Leslie S. Trachtman Union Pharmacy. 600 Union St. Men & Women Student Needs 374-3605 Weekday movies: April 6 - Sound of Music AprH 13 - I Love You, Alice B. Toklas April 20 - A Star Is Born \ April 2S - Summer Of '42 May 4 ·- The Great Escape May II - Gang That Couldn't Shoot Straight May IS -- The Twelve Chairs May 25 --- Casa Blanca ' June I - Charade June S-10 - The Wizard Of Oz *Some movies wiH be shown on Fridays as well; more complete schedules ytill be announced in the spring term. History: Simon and Garjunkel non~lookalikes John Knudsen and Les Goldstein strum their way through \America et a/ before Cabaret audience. U . ' ' n1on s great seat of stone What is the oldest structure on the Union campus? North College? The Arts Building? Alumni Gymnasium? Achilles Rink?? Well, folks, if you guessed any of the above you'd be wrong. .Union's oldest surviving structure is not even a building; it is the stately old stone wall of the College Terrace. The old wall, completed in . 1812, predates by perhaps a year both North and South Colleges. The waH has been carefully maintained all these years, with only occasional repairs made to its stonework, leaving it little changed from the days of its origins. ln more recent years it became necessary to breech the wall in several places in order to allow access to the newer dorms that were built in the former \college pasture.\ Before the cons.truction of Richmond, West, Davidson, and Fox the \pasture\ was exactly that - home for ~evera.l. flocks of sheep. . The terrace wall was built only ' two years after Union President Eliphalet Nott bought the land up on Niskayuna Hill for the new campus (the CoiJege's previous by DAVID MOSKOWITZ home was in the old \stone or West, college - now the site of the Van Dyke Restaurant Parking lot). The wall and terrace were built as a sort of platform for Union's first new buildings, North and South, which otherwise would have directly fronted a steep hill. We've Got A Grand Old Seat The College Terrace, with its \grand Old Seat of stone,\ was near and dear to the hearts of Union men during the 1800's. The \seat\ was the terrace wall capped with heavy flagstones and a long - wooden backrest that stretched all the way from Union to Nott Street. Crowds of undergraduates in small groups used to line the terrace wall on fair evenings in the 1870's to \sing smoke, talk, dream, and perhaps plot schemes of origina.l and startling deviltries\ as one old grad described the scene. (Exactly what these 'deviltries' .entailed was never explained, but it is nice to know how little things haye changed in a century.) took on the old Haymaker outfit of Troy - then in the National League. Union went down to defeat by two or three runs that year but the Troy club soon moved downstate, and renamed themselves the New York Giants. Flagstone Lane The flagstone-paved footpath along the east side of the wall was popular with townspeople and undergraduates alike, particularly on Sundays in spring when a campus walk was sure to include Captain Jack's garden. One 19th Century student could barely control his thrill over the Schenectadian splendor: \We tread the terrace grasses lush, When springtide all our pulses thrill, And watch at evenings tender hush, The trailing sunset banners flush, The gateway in the hills.\ Still, the \grand old seat of stone\ remained the favorite fathering place for the students of 19th Century Union: \Ye Union boys whose pipes are lit come forth in merry throng, Upon the Terrace let us sit and cheer our souls with song. Old Prexy may have his easy chair, The Czar may have his throne; Their cushions may be worse for wear, but not our seat ofstone, . Thou grand old seat of stone. Then here's to thee right merrily, Thou grand old seat of stone.\ In 1890 ·the terrace wall was complete with wooden backrest. The Terrace Council Special thanks to Bernard Carman and to the Schenectady ·Gazette's Larry Hart for some of the information in the above article. MADISON'S TYPING SERVICE In the late 19th Century the seat of stone became a sort of ritualistic meeting place· for a group which called itself the Terrace Council. Comprising mainly student leaders, it was set up as an honorary student society with membership attained only through invitation. The Council now thrives as an organization of all those College supporters who donate more than $1000. • Reports • Manuscripts Below the terrace wall lay the e Thesis • Resumes sheep-filled fields of the college pasture. This \campus green\ • (brown?) became the center of Prompt Service Union's earliest athletic events. In Reasonable Rates 1873, after the sheep were cleared off the field, the first regularly 433 1 Liberty St. 372-5841 scheduled baseball game was Schenectady played. In 1882, the Union nine : ~.-- __________ __. '

Page4 CONCORDIENS/S, Wedne~day, Feb. 25, 1976 'Tempest' roars into rebuilt Nott Friday * * Ariel, the airy spirit, is waiting to work her magic on you. * * * ~!S Calvin, the \Hunchback of Nott Hole,\ as he crawled out of his cavern Monday. Believe Jt or Nott I If you ate one square loot of plywood every day, it would take you 10 years, ll months, and 27 days to eat the entire set of the Tempest. .. iiC If Shari Ratner ran I mile for every yard· of fabric used in the costumes for the upcoming production the Tempest she would have to circle the Nott Memorial 117,600 times to complete the task. ' * Prospera sticks his rod through the set of the Tempest three times (and the rest of the time he holds it in his hand.) il Phil Holbrook and Blair Reischer bore holes. * Scott Glass and David Robinson do not eat beans prior to operattng the sound for the Mountebank's production. It took over 50,000 hammer blows to nail together the set of the Tempest. * If ohe man worked one hour a year on the set, hw would have had to have started in the year 2510 B.C. to finish it at the same time the Montebanks are (three days late.) * -tc' * Gonzalo entertains his companions on Prospera's island. If you want to see what's on the other side, you'll have to come to The Tempest. Box office info The Box Office of the Nott Memorial Theater is now open, selling tickets for The Tempest, which will be performed Feb. 27, 28, 29, March 3, 4, 5 and 6. The Box Office will be open weekdays from one to five-thirty. Due to financial circumstances beyond the control of the Mountebanks, Union t>tudents will be charged fifty cents admission. In addition, velunteers are sought to assist in the staffing of the office. If you're interested, drop by the Box Office this Thursday and Friday between one and five-thirty. Photos by Cliff Langweiler and Bill Collins * i Pr1 by D A photo reflection reflection· upon peop direct. A1 understoo< world. Its Perhaps t1 is an an people by than a cer Cindy Union, ur statements most. \A! explained, taking pic was an ir pursue. I instructior picked thi Cindy e photograp diversion was neve took very Cindy cat of 1972, ~ of being . fall of however, took a 1 ·. . . photograJ: course in j the time. : I lance ar01 ~\ That i1 1 . l' :.:··'lj rolhng wr \I was so< , 1 lanelli, t Mounteb~ ·~ at Union. f '\ ' . 1 like to do \ 'i Union f ~-,: .. ; sounded i because '!· photogtai comp. ed ; 1 !. time. Sco1 taught rn : ·1 technique , J When l theatre p , ! differed f 1 ·. · 1 explained l pictures, I • · certain ty 1·! taking a I· l play. Y01 \ · { you get a f I· to catch :: ~~: . 1 in order As are Union wi I· and Barr applied f1 i. I I ' 1 ' -1 l l i 1 1 ,• t t : { I < I l 1, : l ! . ~ I I ' l l \ ~ . r) \ i, i . J . l ( Uni< Thu ganl own H J

re \\ CONCORD!EN.SIS, Wednesday, Feb. 25, 1976 Paws ' ' . . . . . . ' . .... . . . ~ ~ . \ .. . . . . ·. ' ·. . . '· ..... ~ ' ' - ' ' arts Profile: Wolfson . by DIANE WOLF A photograph i~ not merely the reflection of an 1mage, but the reflection .of life itself. hs impact upon people can b~ very deep and direct. And a p1cture can be understood anywhere .in the world. Its language is universal. Perhaps this is why photography is an art that has fascinated people by the millions for more than a century. Cindy Wolfson, a senior at Union, understands these broad statements, perhaps better than most. \As a youngster,\ Cindy explained, \l had a'lways enjoyed taking pictures. In high school it was an inte·rest that I began to pursue. I never had any formal instruction though. I j:11st sort of picked things up.\ Cindy emphasized however that photography was merely a diversion for her at the time. It was never something that she took very seriously. In fact, when Cindy carne to Union in the fall of 1972, she had every intention of being a math major. \in the fall of her sophomore year, however, Cindy explained, \I' took a comp. ed. course in photography. lt was the only course in photography offered at the time. Soon I began to free- lance around campus.\ • • views photography the Williamstown Theatre Festival, one o:f the top professional summer theaters in the country. Cindy explains, \My portfolio got .me the job. I took pictures for thirteen plays. I'd lo_ve to go back again this summer, I met a lot of exciting people.\ Cindy's. fine photography has also won her a job working as an intern for the New York State Assembly. She spends .fourteen hours a week taking pictures of assemblymen for public pictures and newsletters. Other photography work Cindy has done includes free-lance work for the Union College Magazine, and a slide show for the alumni office. Cindy Wolfson;. photographer photographed. When asked how she views herself as a photographer Cindy replied., \I am not a landscape photographer. I work almost exclusively in blac.k and white. I don't have a lot of equipment.\ She also stated that her works are mainly portraits of people as opposed to settings. Cindy feels she has been very fortunate that Union drafted her into the theatre program. \lowe a lot of thanks to many people. I've learned a lot from Nina Rosenblum. She's encouraged me a great deal to study master photographers. She likes pictures with social content.\ In reference to her position as a woman in the photography field, Cindy does not feel she has ·• encountered any prejudice. \It doesn't matter what sex you are to enter the field,\ She also feels there is a growing awareness of photography. When asked about her goals, Cindy described her ideal job as working at universi·ty doing photography for their publications and their theatre department. \I don't know if the job exists, but I hope to find something related in all my persistence. It's a matter of being at the right place at the right time, which is what Union College has meant to me.\ Sha Na Na rocks in to Memorial Chapel Thursday at 9 p.m. That is when things started rolling for Cindy. As she. explains, \I was soon approached by Cathy lanelli, the president of Mountebanks, the theatre group at Union. She asked me if I would like to do theatre photography at Union for course credit. It sounded like a· wonderful idea· Basil Payne: 'A poetry sharing' . I I because na courses in .'t photography (other than the l comp. ed.) were offered at the 1 time. Scott Gordon, class of 1974, ' i taught me theatre· photography ' ·l ' techniques.\ ·. 1 1 When asked the specifics of theatre photography and how it , i differed from other types, Cindy by BILL PIKE On Thursday night, February 19th, Union College saw its first ''poetry sharing.\ Irish poet, Basil Payne, read his poems to a small audience in Strauss Lounge. In an introductory statement, Payne told his audience that a poem is not poetry until it is shared and ~xperienced by its reader. He goes on to say, that when he presents his poetry, it is not as much a reading as it is a sharing. Because of Mr. Payne's Irish background, it was assumed that his poetry would focus mainly on Ireland and the Irish people. What was expected was a modern day Joyce. As the reading progressed, it was found that Payne used his Irish background The way in whirt Payne deals Mtly as a stepping stone to with these compi ... .ities is the discussing topics ranging from, question. By listening to his Cambodia to the Empire State readings it becomes obvious that Building.' In this respect, Payne is Payne has written in several not an \Irish Poet.\ He is a poet voices. The first voice, Payne from Ireland dealing with the refluctantly classifi.es as world's complexities in an unique \confessional.\ He discusses such and interesting manner. topics as the death of his parents and his mongoloid son. He spends a great deal of time 1 ·,·: ·1· explained. \In taking theatre pictures, you're working with a I • certain type of light. And you're I' l taking a picture· to promote a 1 l play. You focus on a character, ', l you get a close-up. It's necessary .1 . to catch an emotion or something in order to sell a show.\ Bloomro·sen. mal~es most. ~of Union's Arts developing the emotional content of these poems rather than their structural presentation. It is this emotional development which gives the poems their impact. However. much of this impact is lost with Payne's use of rhyming couplets. In contemporary poetry, the poet must be a master at blending the rhyme into the poem so that it does not stand out and distract the reader. Even though Payne effectively uses rhyme in several places, his mastery has not been developed adequately to justify such a frequent use of this device. I I. I' I ! i ·1 i As a result of her experience at Union with theatre photography, and Barry Smith's urging, Cindy applied for and received a job at The Union College Film Committee Presents o .. Tuesday at 8 and 10 LITTLE CAESAR by SUSAN FINKELSTEIN Although recent complaints - have uncovered some very valid shortcomings in the department of Arts at Union, some students have managed to overcome the obstacles and maximize those programs offered by the college. Lee Bloornrosen, a senior graduating this term, is one of those persistent and clever few. Lee is presently involved in the Mountebank's production of The FERRO'S PHARMACY 'STUDENT DISCOUNT' .. 515 Nott st. . 377-1511. ...,. Get out your Hobby Socks, Leather Jackets, Brylcream, and Get Ready to Rock N' Roll Union College will see the 1950's . once again next Thursday night with the help of Sha-Na-Na. The street gang turned singers equipped with grease and their own set of wheels are going to show us that .... \ROCK N' ROLL\ IS HERE TO STAY!! Tempest, after returning from a term abroad this fall in England. ln an attempt to make the ,experience abroad more closely relate to his personal interests, Lee managed to seek out and secure himself a part in The Alchemist by Ben Jonson , at Newton College in England. This was not Lee's first attempt at theatr.e outside of Mountebank's productions; he spent last summer working with a summer stock FOR.UQUOR AND WINE Try Jdce t . \ .. , 1ps.e1ns 464 State Streel FR4.-llll Union Pharmacy 600 Union St.- Men & Women Student Needs 374-3605 company tn Plymouth, Massachusetts, doing such musical comedies as A Funny Thing Happened on the Way to the Forum, Company and You're a Good Man Charlie Brown. Lee is not an arts major, his concentration at Union is English, yet he has managed, through the Comp. Ed. system and independent studies to make the Union Arts Program work to his advantage. Lee spent four terms as director of the Cabaret, and one term, received Comp. Ed. credit in theatrical management. (He arranged the programs, or.dered supplies, and coordinated work schedules.) He has Con~inued on Page 8 .. 374-5911 GEORGE'S MUSIC ST()RE Student Discounts 508 State St. Scbenect~dy. r--1 m:mm:: Gershon's ;::t::::: ~~~ll~~l. . l~~~ll~~~~~ ~:::M Delicatessen :m:m:::: 1600 Union St. 397-0617 Fine Goods To Go or Stay The second of Payne's voice is not as easily definable. Here the poet attempts to be witty and satirical. A good description of this voice would be that of a poetic Russel Baker. Precise description and observation are the best aspects of this voice (particularly in American Culture). Payne has a great ability for capturing ~_he .. description of Continued on Page 8 The Union College Film Committee Presents on Friday at 10 & Sat./Sun. 7, 9:15 & 11:30 That's Entertainment

Page6 CONCORDIENSIS, Wednesday, Feb. 25, 1976 who .pays for academics? Don't look now but a Cornp. Ed. course is disappearing. The course, \Practical Theatre/Directing,\ will bite the dust because of lack of funding. The conflict lies in that the fund- lack exists as a result of Student Tax Committee budget cutbacks. In reducing the Mountebanks' budget this term, the Committee sliced much of the funding for spring term's dramatic production. According 'to Professors Barry Smith and Phil Holbrook, it is not worth the while to present the Comp. Ed. course without a big play production to work on. Still, in producing as expensive a s.how as The Tempest, the Mounties have precluded any elaborate spring term productions. No money, no big show, no Comp. Ed. course is the basic dollars and cents logic. While it may be true that the Mountebanks should divide their / expenditures more evenly between terms, it is also true that no faculty-taught academic course should be dependent on Student Tax money. It is the college's responsibility to maintain the viability and variety of Union's academics. Concordiensis hopes that the administration will see that its responsibility lies first in providing for the continuance of currently student-funded academics. DLM communications· breakdown Concordiensis has long served as a vehicle for the exercise of students' pens. In our tenure here we have read the work of students of different disciplines, who come from a variety of backgrounds. What has impressed us, during the struggle to render raw copy fit for printing, is the impoverished state to which our English has fallen. One has the sense that, too often, no effort is made to construct a written piece that is coherent, flowing, and well-organized; few students writers, including our more experienced reporters and notably Union's English majors, bother to choose a vocabulary that is clear and is expressive with concision, to eschew the trite. Of course this phenomenon is not peculiar to Union College. Its prevalence today argues that there are faults and failures basic' to the system of primary and secondary education. But, as an institute of higher learning, we cannot perpetuate these faults; colleges have a responsibility to turn out - even if they do not take in - students who can expresss themselves with skill. How is this to be done? Students must first be made to read. to read not the stylized Popular Journalese of Time or Studs Terkel's collections of oral effluvium; we must read literature. To some extent this is accomplished by the Comp. Ed. in Humanities requirement, but it is not now emphasized. To have the student read, and to appreciate the complexities of style, must be made an explicit goal of a program of mandatory courses here. And the student must write. In no field is the ability to communicate unimportant. It is now too easy, in the Comp. Ed. courses which were intended to replace the composition requirement. to get hy with plenty of creativity and precious little writing ability. The College must institute basic required cour~c~. by which the student who cannot write will not be ~cnt on to higher level courses until he has acquired some ski\\,_ in verbal expression. We hope to see Union, by the concerted application of these means. make step!> toward restoring a sense of pride in the ability to communicate with fluency, with precision, and with facility. PA Opinion: An inter-century fraternity deja-vu You might be interested in a historical note. In pouring over the correspondence of the secretary of the College in 1826 I ran across this note about fraternities at Union. Feb. 23, 1826 ''To the -·- Society: We, the Faculty and Administration of Union College, feel a deep sense of camaraderie (sic) with our beer-drinking and carousing students. However, we wish to maintain our status .as an inter-social: college. We do not want Union College to deteriorate into another B.D.S. (Beer Drinking Society). Consequently, although we encourage Kappa Alpha to become a brotherhood or fraternity at Union, we would like to limit this movement to one fraternity only. Understand, we have nothing against your group personally. We are only protecting the interests of Union College. Since this decision has not gone through normal College channels, and in fact has been made without the knowlege of many faculty of Union College, it does not carry the force of law. We will not stop you from forming another fraternity if you insist by PROFESSOR E.J: CRAIG upon this course. Moreover, if you confront us with this .J.etter, we will be forced to. deny writing it. ~et, we are sure this not be necessary (sic). It is in the best interest .of all concerned that this rna tter remain confidential between us. Again we wish you continued success and a rewarding college experience. We harbor no HI will and hope tne feeling is mutual.\ There was ne signature! Evidently the letter was ignored because Union went on to become the mother of fraternities. But, you know, the letter does have a curious ring te it! In fact l recently recei)led the following letter in the mail. Notice how the wording follows that in the h~tter of 150 years ago: · Feb. 1976 \To--- We, the Brothers of Kappa Alpha,· feel a deep sense of cornaraderie (sic) with our black brothers. However, we wish to maintain our status as an inter- racial fraternity. We do not want Kappa Alpha to deteriorate into another RS.A. Consequently, although we ·encourage --- to pledge Kappa Aipha, we would like to limit this pledge clas§ to one black brother. Understand, we have nothing aga,inst you personaHy. We are only protecting the interests of K . Since this decision has not gone through normal house channels, and in fact has be~:;n made without the knowledge of many brothers of the Kappa Alpha, it does not carry the force of law. We wjll not stop you from- pledging if you insist upon this course. Moreover, if you confront us with this letter, we will be forced to deny writing it. Yet, we are sure this not be necessary (sic). It is in the best interest of all concerned that this matter remain confidential between us. Again, we wish you continued success and a • rewarding college experience. We harbor no ill will and hope the feeling is mutual.\ This letter was also unsigned. It may well )lave been, written by someorie who, like his forebears, likes to stir up trouble. But, like the letter of a century-and-a-half ago, it was probably written by an asswhole (sick). Who knows? In the future some fraternities may pledge two or even three blacks! Wow! It boggles the mind!

Page 6 CONCORD!ENSIS, Wednesday, Feb. 25, /976 Opinion: who pays for An inter-century academics? fraternity deja-vu Don't look now but a Comp. Ed. course is disappearing. The course, \Practical Theatre/Directing,\ will bite the dust because of lack of funding. The conflict lies in that the fund- lack exists as a result of Student Tax Committee budget cutbacks. In reducing the Mountebanks' budget this term, the Committee sliced much of the funding for spring term's dramatic production. According to Professors Barry Smith and Phil Holbrook, it is not worth the while to present the Comp. Ed. course without a big play production to work on. Still, in producing as expensive a show as The Tempest, the Mounties have precluded any elaborate spring term productions. No money, no big show, no Comp. Ed. course is the basic dollars and cents logic. While it may be true that the Mountebanks should divide their - expenditures more evenly between terms, it is also true that no faculty-taught academic course should be dependent on Student Tax money. It is the college's responsibility to maintain the viability and variety of Union's academics. Concordiensis hopes that the administration will see that its responsibility lies first in providing for the continuance of currently student-funded academics. DLM communications breakdown Concordiensis has long served as a vehicle for the exercise of students' pens. In our tenure here we have read the work of ~tudents of different disciplines. who come from a variety of background~. What has impressed us, during the struggle to ' render raw copy fit for printing, is the impoverished state to which our Engli~h has fallen. One has the sense that, too often. no effort is made to construct a written piece that is coherent. nowing, and well~organi?ed: few students writers, including our more experienced reporters and notahly Union's English majors. bother to choose a vocabulary that is clear and i'> expr~~~ive with conci!->ion. to eschew the trite. Of course this phenomenon is not peculiar to Union College. It... prevalence today argues that there are faults and failure\ hasic· to the system of primary and secondary education. But. as an institute of higher learning. we cannot perpetuate these faults; colleges have a responsibility to turn out even if they do not take in ·- students who can expres'-.s themselves with skill. How is this to be done? Students must first be made to read. to read not the stylized Popular Journalese of Time or Stud'> Terkel's collections of oral effluvium; we must read literature. To some extent this is accomplished by the Comp. Ed. in Humanities requirement. but it is not now emphasized. To ha\e the student read, and to appreciate the complexities of style. must he made an explicit goal of a program of mandatory courses here. And the :-.tudent must ~rite. In no field is the ability to communicate unimportant. It is now too easy, in the Comp. Ed. cour~es which were intended to replace the composition requirement. to get hy with plenty of creativity and precious little writing ahility. The College must institute hasic required cour~c~. h:- \\hich the student who cannot write will not be :-.ent lHl to Ingber level courses until he has acquired some skill in verhall·xpression. We hope to see {Inion. hy the concerted application of the~c mean<>. make steps toward restoring a sense of pride in the ahility to communicate with nuency. with precision. and with facility. PA by PROFESSOR E.J·. Yoo m~~ ~ ~ered~ ina h·istorical note. In pouring over the correspOI'Idence of the secretary of the College in 1826 I ran across this note about fraternities at Union. Feb. 23, 1826 \Ta the --- Society: We. the Faculty and Administration of Union CoHege, feel a deep sense of comaraderie (sic) with our beer-drinking and carousing students. However, we wish to maintain our status as an inter-social college. We do not want Union Colrlege to deteriorate into another B. D.S. (Beer Drinking Society). Consequently, although we encourage Kappa Alpha to become a brotherhood or fraternity at Union, we would like to limit this movement to one fraternity only. Understand, we have nothing against your group personally. We are only protecting the interests of Union College. Since this decision has not gone through normal College channels, and in fact has been made without the knowlege of many faculty of Union College, it does not carry the force of law. We will not stop you from forming another fraternity if you insist fulfilling billing Editors, Concordiensis: In response to the editorial regarding the newly established poli{)y of billing the student instead qf the parents, l for one feel that there is nothing wrong with this idea. It is a .good idea because it is apparent to me that many students on this campus take for granted the fact that their parents pick up the tab' each time a new term rolls around. What would happen if these students had to work part time nights and weekends in order to help pay for the cost of their educatitm. h is really a terrific sacrifice to have to do this for four years, but it is the only way some students can make it through college. Perhaps the college is wrong in doing !,t this way, but at least it will give the student a chance to actually see the bill and show them how much their _,..parents are sacrificing to -se11d them through; if indeed they even open the bilL There used to be an old saying about ho\'Y much more a student would value his educ.atio11 if he eatned it on his own. I, for one stHl believe tn that. Perhaps the reason I do is because l am one of those admirable students you mentioned. every term 'my savings account is decreased almost five hundred dollars. The reason; Union College tuition is due. The reason that l wrote4.his.letter was not to evoke·. ,sympathy from anyone, but to enlighten students to the fact that because their parents are paying their tuition they should be grateful that they c;,m attend all the hockey games, an the concerts, all the weekend patties, etc. If not for anything . else I th:a;nk the coUege for trying to imnress, upon the student that their education , is coming trom · somewhere, even ·if they are not paying th(l; bilL , Lou Lel¥tso' ·11 CRAIG upon this course. Moreover, if you confront us with this letter, we wiJ.l be forced to demy writing it. Yet, we are sme this not be necessary (sic). It is in the best interest of all concerned that this matter remain confidential bet ween us. Again we wish you continued success and a rewarding college experience. We harbor no ill wm and hope the feeling is mutual.\ pledge Kappa Alpha, we would like to limit this pledge class to one black brother. Understand, we have nothing against you personally. We are only protecting the interests of K There was no signature! Evidently the letter was ignored because Union went on to become the mother of fraternities. But, you know, the letter does have a curious ring to it! In fact I recently received the following letter in the mail. Notice how the wording follows that in the letter of 150 years ago: Since th1s decision has not gone through normal house channels, and in fact has been made without the knowledge of mar.y brothers of the Kappa Alpha, it does not carry the force of law. We will not stop you from pledging if you insist upon this course. Moreover, if you confront us with this letter, we will be forced to deny writing it. Yet, we are sure this not be necessary (sic). It is in the best interest of all concerned that this matter remain confidential between us. Again, we wish you continued success and a rewarding college experience. We harbor no ill will and hope the feeling is mutual.\ Feb. 1976 \To ---, We, the Brothers of Kappa Alpha, feel a deep sense of camaraderie (sic) with our black brothers. However, we wish to maintain our status as an inter- racial fraternity. We do not want Kappa Alpha to deteriorate into another B.S. A. Consequently. although we encourage --- to This letter was also unsigned. It may well have been written by someone who, like his forebears, likes to stir up trouble. But, like the letter of a century-and-a-half ago, it was probably written by an asswhole (sick). Who knows? In the future some fraternities may pledge two or even three blacks! Wow! It boggles the mind! student ( ?J. productions Editors, Concordiensis: With the Arts Symposium toda\V. and the· Mountebanks' prod.uction of The Tempest openintt orr Friday, I thin'k it appropriate to raise snme questions, co.ncerning the M ountehanks. tht ~tudent Tax Committee .and the general question of Art~ at Union. The Tempest production will cost the Student Tax Committee in excess of $5,000. As a comhined re~ult of had· planning hv the Mountebanks and a cut hy the Tax Committee. there is now no money avai'lable for any type of Mountebanks pmduction next term. This is wrong. The situation cannot he blamed totaHy on the Tax Committee for making what amounts to o.nly a small cut from the Mountebanks' hud!let. The · f~u.ik lies with. the MoHnteh<~nts Executive Board, for , allowin14 the T(flbpest producti_on to run. so far over budget. How far .. over budg.~t, no one ·Gn the E~e<:utive Board knows. , .· •• J am not saying that we should not have expensive. extravaga111a type productiqni:. Aut should the Tax Committee pay for. them, and not (a\ lt is'tt11:ning out) fDr !'tnaller student productions? Should the Tax Committee finance what can be called t'studio work~ .hY Arts Faculty? And to the exclusion · for all practical , puq)oJ>eS of student productions? Althoup:h Mmmtehanks is a student or_!tanh·.~;tt\on. they should have the ril,lht to· invite .f~cttfty members fo . par.tidpate in . Mountehanh prod'u!i:tion.s .. But dne1in't the M<iuntehariks have the respell1~ihilify to .. include student prod1Jctl~os 'Hi , their senedt.de ~rtd ~~:\htct?: ',, . t-> rot: ,tii;IlJt;ll . ean~etlefil the~try ~tnJL e~, Slfal\s for n.ext term. 0:0.:: reascm, he told me, was thai'ttti>fe was np money for a mainsta{te production. This .wotdd d~ny students. the experience of bpildinf< . a set, a str-'Ont:t and end.uring experrence. I am f!Ot imyin~ that tfli~> is wrong, hut is it not interts_ting that the avai!ahiUtv of stud~:11t tax funds should influence the seheduiin~ . of 'academic' course offerings? There are several possible ContimHcl OR Pqe. 9 linebacker .-wronged Etlito~ Conco:rdiens.ts: As edit~r of .Linebatker, l feel compelled to write this letter only to set . matters straight regard to the· course but also to defend the integrity and honor of my dignified co- editor, Biil Peck. l was given notice meeting of the Tax t.:omrrutt:ee}!f (small case mine} at Linebacker's status was discus:se(l.• However, I was given nei sufficient warning nor appreciation. of tl.te severe that Eilbott and Co. were to bestow upon the l 1 th importa.nt student activity. 1'he manner in which 'this matter been handled by {the few) powers at (sci\;) be typifies th incompetence and arrogance of the powermongerers who themselves the Student Qgyernment. Not only was given insJtfficient notice of meeting, and therefore unable attend, but the Tax ~nt right ahead and. wi Lineha.tker's funds without gi:ving Bill or myself a chance d.efend our worthy cause. indiscretions and short sightedness of this . actions in this matter only to accentuat~ th~ recent boner~· puHed by th-:tt .group. Their ac.t-ions were without any thought as resulting eventualities. They n\'''Pr• even eonsldered the fad that have been Wit ·. · . · many eo11~gi~l antk ilniiVe:r·§\ifies

CONCORDIENSIS, Wednesday, Feb. 25, 1976 Page 7 ·Opinion; Behavioral· Court held by Student Life by PETER SOBOL Feb. 26, 1980: lt was a busy day at the Union Colleg~ Behavioral Court today. The first case was Ed Menke vs 2nd' floor Richmond. Menke charged the residents of 2nd floor Richmond with \beratement\ during their volleyball game which he had volunteered to referee. Menke claimed. that qe was successively screamed at, gesticulated at, and finally hit in the face with the Opinion: volleyball. The spO'kesperson for Richmond said that Menke had failed to halt play on numerous .occasions whn members of the opposing team caught the ball and threw it over the net. They quoted Menke as sayi11g, \Look. l don't know the rttles of this stupid game.\ Judge Smith convicted the entire floor and sentenced them to a week without plumbing. The .next case was Viento vs Phi Delta Theta. Viente, an independant living in the PDT house, accused the brothers of harassing him. Judge Smith visited the house one night to investigate the charges ana found the brothers throwing jello at each other, playing hockey in the hall, singing in the bar, ~nd shooting bottle~rock:et:s off the roof. Smith convicted the entire house of harassment and sentenced them to become a rink parking lot. Another case concerned the Student Life committee vs all Union students present at the last basketball game. The attending hoop fans were accused of cheering derisively as an opposing player was hurt and carried froin the court. Impartial reports state that the opposing player threw the basketball in a Union player's face, shattering his spectacles and necessitating eye surgery. Apparently a Union player then belted the opposing player in the solar plexus which resulted in the opposing player being assisted off the court. All students who were in attendance at the game in question have been asked to surrender themselves to the authorities. The last case was Joseph Beets vs an unknown assailant. He claimed to have heard a voice cry out under his dorm window: \Hey you goddamn whores, come Gut and get laid!\ Beets is quoted as saying, \l ran as fast as l could, but when I got down there she was gone.\ The case was dismissed. I'm OK; You're not so hot Apathy dees not exist at Union College. It is a term applied to ·a state of affairs here and has grown to become the number one excuse for our short-comings. There is a feeling at Union which pe~meates the air; one can't help but notice it. People come to Union scared .. They are afraid for a number of reasons; fear of rejectio.n, . fear of expressing theJ!!selves, fear of failure, etc. All of these fears stem back to one source, fear of fellow students. Most people come to Union apprehensive of what awaits them. In time they develop a small circle of friends, thus we have the birth and perpetuation by SAM FRANDINO of what is infamously known as the \clique\. After a time a feeling of comfort, or at least subdued fear, sets in. But the ~:eluctance to establish new friendships, whether they be casual or close, sets in too. People here are afraid to associate with their fellow stude.nts. Once they are taken out of their •circle. of friends and (!.quaintances they are unable to function properly. Defensive shields immediately are raised and backs are turned on strange faces. People claim Student Government, Concordiensis, Mountebanks, etc. are cliquish organizations. Those involved with these various organizations claim the student body at large is apathetic. In a way both are wrong. Yes,. Student Government, Concotdiensis, Mountebanks are cliques, they just happen to be prominent ones. Yes, the student body is .apathetic in as much as they are not willing to expend the energy necessary to break into one of the more prominent cliques on campus. But the one overriding factor which causes these feelings is the inability of the members of the student body to communicate with each other as a group on any level. So the next time you are tempted to label a group as apathetic or a clique, consider this; apathy in its most common definition is a lack of emotion and a clique is an exclusive group of people. Is there a lack of emotion at Union? It's a rhetorical question, no there is not. The emotion that exists is just channeled in the wrong direction, it is put to selfish use. Are there cliques on campus'! Yes;' b11t they are not cliques by design. It is the innate fear of Union Opinion: students for other Union students which fosters cliques. The lyrics of B~b Dylan make a point which we should become aware of in our relationships with others: I ain't lookin' to compete with you, Beat or cheat or mistreat you, Simplify you, classify you, Deny, defy or crucify you. All :I really want to do Is, baby, be friends with you. Cynical sincerity by JACK PITNEY To paraphrase Willy Loman, those who make an appearance of sincerity in the political world, those who crea,te personal trust, are those who get ahead. Be trusted and you will never want. The problem now facing professional politicians is that trust is more elusive than ever. People tend to think of policicians as phony, calculating power-seekers; therefore, a wise candidate will present himself as a simple, honest non-politician. This is a very difficult task; it takes a great deal of careful planning to make yourself seem guileless. The first step is to choose the issues on which you will base your campaign.· It's not a good idea to concentrate on specific areas of public policy. The more you say about things like busing and abortion, the more you will have to deny later on. It's much better to make an issue out of Honesty itself. Say things like this: \I promise never to lie to you. Can my opponent make the same pledge?'' Pay attention to your oratorical style. You should never read a speech to an audience, because the presence of a prepared _text suggests that you're not speaking from the heart. Instead. memorize the speech and practice· your delivery until you can make it sound extemporaneous. Work at it you'll be amazed at the reception you'll get. Audiences just love spontaneity. You should apply a ~imilar principle in your advertisng. If your TV commercials look too slick, the folks out there might think you're attempting some kind of mind control (remember: a lot of people have read The Hidden Persuaders). So the trick is to make your ads appear crude and hastily produced -- like Veg- o-matic commercials. By doing so, you will not only avoid the reputation of being a \media candidate\ but you will also create the distinct impression that you cannot afford better commercials. In politics, there's nothing nicer than having people believe that you're poor and honest. Follow all of this advice and you'll come off looking like an altar boy. But if you don't watch yourself, you could had for trouble. Remember ~- there's a!) art to being trustworthy. EDITORS-IN-CHIEF ............................... Michael Affinito. David Moskowit7 \NEWS-FEATURES ............................... Audrey Rothschild. Chris O'Connor Clii.TlJRE ..................................................... Sue Finkelstein. Diane ;\!elson SPORTS ........................................................ Charlie Flanagan. John Busterud. LAYOUT.. ........................................................... .. Allyne Price ....... Lance Travis CLASSIFIEDS ................................... . . ..... Todd Miller .Joe Cappuccio CIRCULATION .. . COPY ....... . Phil Alcahes ART....................................................... . . ..... Lester Weiss CALENDAR....................................... . ... Sheryl Farber BUSINESS MANAGER..................... . ...... Rhonda Kaplan SUBSCRIPTIONS ........................................................... Shelley Gold NATIONAl. ADS ............................................. .... ................ . .... Steve Kelly CONTRIBUTING EDITOR ........................................................... Jack Pitnev PHOTO FOITOR...... ....... . Greg Cohen PHOTOGRAPHY .... ,........... . ..... Jim Raker. Kevin Schary. Dehhy Kaufman. Cliff Langweiler. Don Hamennan. Fred Abbott. Rudy Lu. Jeff Levine. Beth Karlin. MikeRotundi. Roh Mnnd,chein. <\rt Miller. Tony Romanaai. Sue Draper. Tom Welles Tom Bishop. Mike Marks STAFF THIS ISS.UE .......... ;.................................. . ..... BIII Peck. Ed Menke. Peter Sobol. Neal A. Schwart7, Bill Henson, M;mhall WisofT, Bn rbara Shapiro, J .J. Smigen

. . · /,f, CONCORDJENSIS, Wednesday, Feb. 25, 1976 Page 7 ·Opinion.: Behavioral Court held by Student Life by PETER SOBOL Feb. 26, 1980: It was a busy day at the Union College Behavioral Court today. The first case was Ed Menke vs 2nd floor Richmond. Menke charged the residents of 2nd floor RichmoHd with \beratement\ during their volleyball game which he had volunteered to referee. Menke claimed. that he was successively screamed at, gesticulated at, and tinaHy hit in the face with the Opinion: volleyball. The spokesperson for Richmond said that Menke had failed to halt play on numerous occasions whn members of the opposing team caught the ball and threw it over the net. They quoted Menke as saying, \Look I don't know the rules of this stupid game.\ Judge Smith convicted the enti:re floor and sentenced them to a week withou·t plumbiflg. The next case was Viento vs Phi Ddta Theta. Viente, an independant living in the PDT house, accused the brothers of harassing him. Judge Smith visited the house one night to investigate the charges and found the brothers throwing jello at each other, playing llockey in the hall, singing in the bar, and shootiNg bottle-rockets off the roof. Smith convicted the entire house of harassment and sentenced them to become a rink parking lot. Another case concerned the Student Life committee vs all Union students present at the last basketball game. The attending hoop fans were accused of cheering derisively as an opposing player was hurt and carried froin tile court. Impartial reports state that the opposing player threw the basketball in a Union player's face, shattering his spectacles and necessitati11g eye surgery. Apparently a Union player then belted the opposing player in the solar plexus which resulted in the opposing player being assisted off the court. All students who were in attendance at the game in question have been asked to surrender themselves to the authorities. The last case was Joseph Beets vs an unknown assailant. He claimed to have heard a voice cry out under his dorm window: \'Hey you goddamn whores, come out and get laid!\ Beets is quoted as saying, \I ran as fast as I could, but when I got down there she was gone.\ The case was dismissed. I'm OK; You're not so hot by SAM FRANDINO Apathy does not exist at Union College. It is a term applied to a state of affairs here and has grown to become the number one excuse for our sllort-comings. of what is infamously known as the \'clique\. After a time a feeling of comfort, or at least subdued fear, sets in. But the reluctance to establish new friendships, whether they be casual or close, sets in too. There is a feeling at Union which permeates the air; one can't help but notice it. People come to UnioN scared. They are afraid for a number of reasons; fear of People here are afraid to associate with their fellow students. Once they are taken out of their •circle of friends and aquaintances they are unable to function properly. Defensive shields immediately are raised and backs are turned on strange faces. rejection, fear of expressing themselves, fear of failure, etc. All of these fears stem back to one source, fear of fellow students. Most people come to UNion apprehensive of what awaits them. In time they develop a small circle of friends, thus we have the birth and perpetuation People claim Student Government, Concordiensis, Mountebanks, etc. are cliquish organizations. Those involved · purposeles~ Editors Concordiensis: I am writing to re.oaffirm the comments made by Matt Brief in his letter last week. Bill Peck's letter of two weeks ago was both childish in its method of attack and foolish in its purpose. An attack upon an individual member of P committee (chairman or not, he only has one vote) for the actions of that committee is mere name calling. The purpose of the letter, evidently, was. to raise student &upport for Linebacker; nice try, but it appears to have failed. Perhaps th-: . most logical approach would have been to appeal the decision of the Audit (Tax) Committee to the Student Forum. The Student Forum is the final arbitrator in all student government decisions. Appeals of this nature have been brought to the Forum in the past, and the Forum has, at times, overruled the decisions of committees. No such app~;!ai has been made by any member of the Linebacker Staff. lt is obvious that those individuals who are sincere in their complaints of the decisions of Student Committees use every possible means to see that those decisions are. reversed. Those who wish only to complain, will use every method possible to do so. It appears that Mr. Peck is only interested in sounding-off. Paul Boyd, Member of the Audit (Tax) Committee in defense of·peck Editors, Coneordiensis! First and foremost l would like to apo1Dgiz~ to Dave Eilbott if indeed my criticism in my last-- , letter was taken too hl!rsbly. I never intended to be vicious {I don't feel! was}, and I am sorry if it seemed that way. l will point out that most of my remarks were pointed at \Dave Eilbott, and the rest of the Tax i:Ommittee\. Dave, the chairman. merely got top billing. And 1 feel that criticism of governmental leaders is to be expected when they make (in my opinion} gross errors. As -chairman, and thus having more responsibility, Dave should be able to take the heat when it comes. Nonetheless, if Dave was a& crushed by my \vicious\ attack as you say he was, Matt, then 1 am sorry. • Back to Matt's letter. The facts have yet to be straightened out, so 1. will try once and for all to set the record straight: I) Ken Stone told me of a budget cut, I felt it was coming due to the Tax Committee's 20 percent budget error, hence there was no breakdown in communications on Linebacker's part. He did not say that the budget would be completely cut, and l think he did not think that would happen. As it was, he was not informed in time to even defend Linebacker and tell the Tax Committee why Linebacker should be saved. One would think that the Tax Committee could have been a bit more fair. 2) Agreed, Dave EilboH was not the sole authority who decided to cut Lineba(k.er, but, as I said before, lie ts the chairman of the Tax Committee, and with that title comes more responsibility for his actions. As for Lineba~ker itself, both Ken and 1 have discussed maily potential changes in the format of the write .. up/printout. and had sent away to other college's for their course evaluations to see how other s<:hool's went about evaluating their courses. The decision to cut the budget ·seems hastY am;! Ul . informed of Liu.ebaeker'sreasons for surviving. with these various organizations claim the student body at large is apathetic. In a way both are wrong. Yes, Student Government, Concordiensis, Mountebanks are cliques, they just happeH to be prominent one~. Yes, the student body is apathetic in as much as they are not willing to expend the energy necessary to break into one of the more prominent cliques of! campus. But the one overriding factor which causes these feelings is the inability of the members of the student body to communicate with each other as a group on any level. So the next time you are tempted to label a group as apathetic or a clique, consider Edlt(lrs, Coocordimsis: I hate to shatter an hopes of the Rink ·· Administrative Staff that they have succeeded in pleasing both faculty and students with the new tkket policy, but I f-eel I have no choice. After waking up at 7:30a.m. on february 23 as 1 have on all ticket-se!Hng days, I arrived at 8:05 being number It in line. I, quite justifiably, expected choice seats. When they finally opened at 8:5.5 (25 minutes late), all good seats and at least one entire section had been giv~::n to a larger~ than-normal faculty line. lt seems that those administering tickets do not bear the discretion when to begin selling tickets to students. Because the Faculty line will probably be evert bigger for the playoffs, the students will undoubtedly be seated behind faculty members regardless of how early the students arrive in the morning. It is, a:fterall, the students who verbaUy and spiritually support the Hockey Team .(majority rule). I can't very well see Prof. Goodheart yelling \Cortland sucks,\ or Prof. Lurie begin stamping her feet. Although we are only freshmen, we have sat in the ftqnt row in the same section for every .15ame so we don't bother people in front of us. This is because we purchased a couple of truck horns and battery to promote Uni.on , Unity and SpiriL Although 1 probably wm survive this game. l am concerne4 about the next.3 years. Because this problem wiH probably not be remedied by the playoffs, let me make this suggestion for next year - Should the Rink Management wisely choose to sell season tickets to Students and Faculty next year, begin selling them .on Sunday so both have an equal chance to obtain ··seats. ''There is no reason why Faculty alone nor Students alone should have priority over the other. . . · · l do not ~emm;td pri,vil~gFS .fo.r myself nor my, f~li9w st'Qde.nt$) and l think l speak fot~\-\¢tY!?ne' i would like to take issue with Matt Briers. letter that appeared in last weeks Conc.ordy. Unfortunately, my best friend since 7th grade d.oestt't go tp Union, so l affl'\cf()t-coo to defend myself. ··· ·· 3) Agreed, most of the f~culty didn't hand out tlie Linebacker questi<Hu\:il'¢. hoWeVer, we at , 'Uneb~reker had hoped for some ~ co~ttbiutd en. Page '» , , ' . . . .. ·~.:~~~~·:.• :~;9''::.: ;,· .'!'' this; apathy in its most common definition is a lack of emotion and a clique is an exclusive group of people. Is there a lack of emotion at Union? It's a rhetorical question, no there is not. The emotioN that exists is just channeled in the wrong direction, it is put to selfish use. Are there cliques OH campus'! Yes,\ but they are not cliques by design. It is the innate fear of Union Opinion: students for other Union students which fosters cliques. The lyrics of Bob Dylan make a point which we should become aware of in our relationships with others: I ain't lookin' to compete with you, Beat or cheat or mistreat you, Simplify you, classify you, Deny, defy or crucify you. All I really want to do Is, baby, be friend1> with you. Cynical sincerity by JACK PITNEY To paraphrase Willy Loman, those who make an appearance of sincerity in the political world, those who cre~tc personal trust. arc those who get ahead. Be trusted and you will never want. I he problem now facmg professional politicians is that trust i~ more elusive than ever. People tend to think of pohciciam as phony, calculating power-seekers; therefore, a wise candidate will present him~clf as a simple, honest non-politician. !his is a very difficult task; it takes a great de<tl of careful planning to make yourself seem guileless. I he first step is to choose the issues on which you will base your campa1gn. It\ not a good idea to concentrate on specific areas of public pohcy. I he more you ~ay about things like busing and abortion, the more you will have to deny later on. It\ much better to make an issue out ol Honesty itself. Say things like this: \I promise ne\Cf to lie to you. Can my opponent make the !>arne pledge'!\ Pay attention to your oratorieal style. You should nevt.:r read a speech to an audience, because the presence of a prepared text suggests that you're not speaking from the heart. Instead. m~:mori1e the speech and practice your delivery until you can make it sound extemporaneous. Work at it you\ll he ama1ed at the reception you'll get. Audiences just low spontaneity. You should apply a ;imilar principle in your advcrtisng. If your ·1 \' commercials look too slick. the folks out there might think you're attempting some kind of mind control ( rcmemhcr: a lot ot people ha \.: read The Hidden Persuaden). So the trick i~ to make )our ad> appear crude and ha,til) produced like \'cg- o-matic commt.:rcials. Hy doing ,o. you v. ill not only ~1\ oid the reputation of heing a \media candidate\'. hut ~ou v-.ill also create the di>t inct impression that you cannot afford hetter commerciab. In politic,. there'> nothing 111r.:er than h:l\ ing people helie\t.: that you're poor and honest. Follov. all of thi~ ad\ icc and you'll come oft lnoking like an altar boy. But it you don\t watch yourself. you could had for trouble. Remt>mhcr thcrc·s an art to being trust\\orth). umon C d• • college oncor tenSlS FD!l ORS-J'\.('Illl f· \1ochat'l ·\lfonll••. ll.l\ od \1 '\\'\\! 1 :-;rws.JTA ll'RFS 1\udr~' R\th\·hdd. Chro' o·c,,nn.,r Cl'l ll'RI s,,.,,,~d,tclll. llo.tnc \\!\'\ . SPORTS Ch.nh-ll.on.o).!.on .. l,,hn Hu,wud. ·\ill Ill' \\'''' I 1\YOI'l I .wee' lr.l\' C1 ASSH II· J)S 1 <1dd \1dko C!Rct'l 1\ 110\\ .Inc· Carpu,·c\' COPY l'hd ·\ k.1hc•' J\RJ Je,ter \\ l'l\ CAl F'\DAR BI''.I'\I'SS \1A '\A(ii'R Sl 1 BSCRII'l!O'\S '\1\JJ()'I,.\J ADS COY! R !Bl'Jl\\Ci FD!l OR 1'110 10 I Dl I OR PHOI O(·iR \l'HY Sl AFI· HilS 1SSIIF <.;ht\n I l .11 hc·r R h.•nd.o K.orl.lll \hclln (;,,ld Stt'l <' f<..c•lh .l.td 1'1tnn .hm H.o~eo. Kc' 111 Sdl;otl _ lll'l'PI· K.llllm.tn. ('ltfl l .111)!\H'ilc·o. J).,n fLomcrm.on. l rt•d \hh••tt. Rud1 l u .. kft l C\·111<' lkth K.nlon. \11kt' RPI\JIHlt. R,,l., \1Pncl-chl'111. ·\rt \1dlc·r 1 ,,m R<>manano. '>ut• no ape•. rnm Welle' 1 nm Rl'hnp. \i1~c Mark' Roll Pt•d. Fd '1cnkc. Pt•tt•r s,,f,,,J. '\eal ·\ Sch\\,lrtl. Btl! He\'''\· Mar,hall W\off. Barhara Shaprr<'. Ll. Smigen

Page8 Union's doomed stately, Elms by CLARENCE MORROW TRAVIS IV Say goodby to the American Elm. The beautiful and ancient elms which line the Union campus are suffering their last, dying gasps. About thirty years ago these trees were so thick in places that, according to Professor William Huntley, Chairman of the Planting Committee, one \could not see the sky.\ During the 1940's there· were around 800 of these stately shade trees on campus; currently, less than 100 of the elms remain standing. Around 1850, a fungus, Ceratocystis ulmi, was brought to the United States from the Netherlands, aboard a Dutch elm sapling. This fungus impairs the ability of an elm tree to transport water throughout its system. The American elm evolved separately Only the stump remains of a century-old elm. from European elms, and therefore did not develop any natural immunity. When the fungus suddenly arrived in America, it began killing the American elms indiscriminately. The fungus had an immediate and deadly effect, not only on the Union College grounds, but m most of the Eastern United States. The American e.lm, because of ·its aesthetic and shade- producing qualities, was almost the only tree planted anywhere for shade. When the disease hit the trees, it left many areas looking like Kansas prairies. This treeless state of affairs caused some concerned faculty members (notably Professors Harlow and Huntley) to lead an attempt to stop the disapperance of shade on the Union campus. In 1962 the trustees decided to appropriate $1500 a year to landscaping projects. The college has since hired a landscape architect to help formulate a plan for replanting on ·campus. 1. The problem that arose in relandscaping Union was whether or not to attempt to save the American Elm. According to a New York Times article of September 3~ 1967, Williams College made the decision to wage war on tne destructive fungus. The director of their physical plant, Peter Welanetz, stated, \We are going to continue our program, and when an effective control of the disease is found we will be far ahead, in terms of beautiful trees, of those who think the American elm is a lost cause.\ Union College did not want to follow this type of plan, (' instead of deciding to replace the elm trees as they died with different types CJf trees, while at the same time making a small effort to save the remaining elms. A slight split has developed between members of the planting committee. Professor Huntley stated, \We would like to sec all the same types of trees in an area for aesthetic reasons.\ According to Biology Professor Peter See Lee Continued from Page 5 concentrated his Comp. Ed. studies in the options in creativity. This has allowed Lee to pursue some of his own creative interests. such as his theatrical work in England for which he received independent study credit. l.ce is con-,idering graduate work in drama for next year. This coming term he hope~ to find work somewhere in ~ew York City. As l.ce sat hefore the dre\ing lllOtll mirror. Jahhing green and gold grea>epaint around \ariou> parh of hi> face and the ma-,k he will he using for The Tempest, he 't re,sed the ability of the student to make I Inion's format work fnr him, instead of him working for it. Watching the 7 or X other student. also diligently involved in applying the stage make-up (something you learn to do for voursclf in all Mounties prodUl'lions) and li~tening to the ten or twelve others ~ctting up the lights and touching up the massive ~et created for this production of the Tempe~!. it hecame clear that Union i~ not de\'oid of a II artistic endeavors, nor i., it lacking in pl.'ople willing to hccomc involved in them. Our ~chool i~ limited in facilities. hut for .manv. the Arts and po~siblc career~ in it are not unfounded dre<~m~ coming from llnion. Rut for now. the effort must come primarily from the student. .>'. i\fj··. ,':v-~ .· .. ~ This picture, which appeared in 19.67 in The New York Times, showed the beginnings tJf the planned Elm Tree replacement. Tohiessen', \A diversity of trees will be ecologically safer because a new disease· wo.uld CJnly be able to wipe out one type of tree while not wiping out the rest of trees on, campus.\ The committee reached a compromise: by deciding to plant only one-type of tree along a given road while having other types m other areas. This compromise resulted in the planting of red maples, lindens, and sugar maples, among others. The planting committee each year picks one area of the campus to replant and beautify. Last year work was done around Payne Gate, President Bonner's House and the Blue Gate. According to Huntley, plans for this year include a doubling of the number of trees around Hale House and the Psychology building. There is also a plan to build a garden on the hill behind Schaffer Libary which would include herbs and Basil Payne , Continued from Page 5 he presents a significant poem with subdued thyme (i.e. \Hail Felo De · · Se, well met, In memory of John Berryman). If Payne can continue to write with such balance, his future poetry will be witty, powerful, and above all, readable. map1e trees, Future pl~ns include planting around Achilles Rink. \A beautiful campus can have a go~d effect on admissions,\ say:,; Hunt.ley. He feels that a prospective student at Union is influenced by the way the campus looks - an a-ttractive campus can only influence students for the better. Pre-registration materials for spring term 1975-76 will be available at the Office of the Reghtrar,. 'Room 2, Administration Building, beginning Monday·, February 23rd. Students are urged to promptly secure their copy of these materials. Students who do not plan to return to Union for the' spring term, ex~;ept for graduating seniors, must immediately give nQtice of their plans to the Office of the Dean of Students. events or situations in words. But a problem arises when he does nothing to develop these observauons once he makes them. He lets them stand alone as mere observations (which some may consider to be valid). He does nothing to instill significance or meaning in what he observes. Because Payne does not develop an added significance, he tends to focus on the structure of the poem. Unfortunately, in many cases, this means excessive rhyme. An example comes in \A Winter's Talc,\ a poem which he read from his latest book entitled, Another Kind of Optimism. Payne writes. Tenure • • CriSIS \why do they try to defy ~imple arithmatic any more than I should try to expect ... \ It goes on. It this heavy and repeated rhyme serves any purpose at all, It IS only to extinguish any sort ol \ alue in Payne·~ poetry. I owards the end ol Payne's readmg, lortunately a third votce anses. I his \ o1ce succe~sl ully combmes both the confessional and ~atirical a~pecb of hi~ earlier poems. lie I mcls ihe balance hct\\Cen emotional development and ~tructural pre~entation, and Continued from Page I result in departmental honors. l'his does not count all research projects. l'hc 25 honors projects outnumber the rest of the Psychology Department faculty ~ponsored student research put together. In the Psychology Department, as opposed to some other departments, working with students honors research docs not usually lead to teaching credit. in response to the tenure situation, and specifically the case of Howard Berthold. Four faculty members and 41 students were present. Students were curious as to the reason Prof. Berthold was not gran'\d tenure. They believed that the \4uality\ of the research was being 4 ucstioned because it involved helping students <it times. It was felt that the students had no right to evaluate or judge Prof. Ikrt hold's research, but they felt ~ome form of action was ncces~ary. Hockey playoff picture Prof. Berthold asked recently, \What is the function of research at lJ nion in a department that is not primaril) experimentally onented'! Can a faculty member JUstify limitmg the research opportunities of ad\anced ~tudents to only his narrowly defined area, or is the more important function to try to give creditable guidance to research projects which interest the students?\ lhis was the third meeting by !->ludents and by this time an organi1ed student effort with direction and help from faculty was initiated. It was hoped to get away from sympathy and/or grass roots effort. It was felt that a well organized student-faculty effort would be the most effective approach. The issue of Prof. Berthold was to he approached from five different angles: I) Research; what is the role of the prolc~sor' 1 2) Petition lor support. J) Input to President Bonner and the Board of Trustees; input to the Advisory Cvmrnillee. 4) l·aculty support. 5) Communication ·to maintain a l:onsistent and focused voice by the students. h•gh ~eedmg. .'\ltn \ccdmg. the tourn;tmcnt game' will match up 1n the following way: first seed vs. eighth seed; ~econd seed vs. \CVcnth seed; third seed vs. sixth seed; fourth seed vs. the fifth <;eed Jhe semi-final round will have the highest remaining seed' playing the corresponding lower remaining \eeds. !'he winners of this round will play In the Champ~>mhip game (There will he no consolation game.) I he adual scedmg process i' 'cheduled to take place this Sunday night, l·ebruary 29th. Pending the re~u lh of 1>1 v\ion II ;!l:tion during this week. l Jnion \hould find itself with a high seed. As it stands rigjlt now, Union's Continued from Page I secdmg and possihle opponents ~hapc up In th1' l<hhJon: hrst. the team w1fl he the undisputed West Division Champiom hv virtue of its record and mo-;t probably cho,cn as the top representative hv the West selection sti'hcommittec. Seeding hy the full selection committee. though. may he a hit more difficult to discern. as many factors have to he evaluated helore a decision can be reached. laking into consideration the political nature of the sclertion process. IJnion should receive the second or third >eed in the eight team field. I his pmition would give Union at lea'! one home game in the play-off\ and possibly two dependmg again on the outcome of the games and the seeding . Poss1hle opponenh lor (Inion In the first game include Buffalo, Hamilton, Army, or American International College. Other top seeded teams will undoubtedly he Merrimack. Bowdoin. Oswego State, and Salem State. which arc currently ranked nne. three, four and five. I he FCAC. as with all other post ~cason tournaments, will control the games and dictate the ticket policy. Union authorities arc in the process of making plans for the tournament; students, faculty. and staff will be informed a~ soon a' the plans arc finali1ed. The views expressed above by Professor Berthold parallel those of the Chairman of the Biology Department. Willard Roth. Roth. in a Umon College publication, stated, \I would like to make a personal pitch lor the tact that many, many good faculty members at Union College do significant scholarly work. lhe primary emphasi~ of it, however, is not to play a tnajor role in expanding the frontiers of k nowledgc, but rather to bring a full, up-to-date in-depth awareness to their teaching of undergraduates.\ Prof. Roth placed an emphasis on the undergraduate at Union. Prot. Berthold in both thought and action makes the same ktnd ol emphasis. On Monday. 1-ehtuary 23, a student-faculty meeting was held It was apparent that students across the C<impus were not happy with the tenure process although they did respect the amount of time. energy and consideration. which went into the decision. What was ol major importance was the peculiarity ol the situation where one committee apparently overturned the decision ol another. il H ! 1 i i I l I l l·l : I l ! I I ! \ ,i \

Paf{e R CONCORDIENSIS, Wednesday, Feb. 25, 1976 U . ' lllOll S doomed stately, Elms by CLARENCE MORROW TRAVIS IV Sa) gooJby to the Ameri~.:an Lim. I he beautiful and ancient dm~ \\hich lme the l:nion campu~ an: suffering their last, dying gasps. About thirty years ago these trees were so thick in places that, according to Professor William lLuntley, Chairman of the Planting Committee. one \could not see the sky.\ During the l\l40's there· were around HOO of these stately shade trees on campus; currently. less than 100 of the elms remain standing. Around IX50, a fungus. Ceratocystis ulmi. was brought to the United States from the ;\ietherlands. aboard a Dutch elm sapling. I his fungus impairs the ability ot an elm tree to transport water throughout its system. I he American elm evolved separately Only the stump remains of a renlury-old elm. from European elms. and therefore did not develop any natural immunity. When the fungus suddenly arrived in America, it began killing the American elms indiscriminately. The fungus had an immediate and deadly effect. not only on the L Ilion College grounds, but In most of the Ea~tern United States. I he American dm, because ot its aesthetic and shade- producing 4ualitics. was almost the only tree planted anywhere for shade. When the disease hit the trees. it left many areas looking like Kansas prairies. !his treeless state of affairs caused some conc~?rned faculty members (notably Professors Harlow and Huntley) to lead an attempt to stop the disappcrance of shade on the Union campus. In l%2 the trustee' decided to appropriate $1500 a year to landscaping projects. The college has ~incc hired a landscape architect to help formulate a plan for replanting on campus.'· r he problem that arose in relandscaping Union was whether or not to attempt to save the American Elm. According to a New York Times article of September 3, 1\167, Williams College made the decision to wage war on tnc destructive fungus. I he din:ctor of their physical plant, Peter Welanetl. stated. \We arc going to continue our program, and when an effective control of the disease is found we will be far ahead, in terms of beautiful trees, of those who think the American elm is a lost cause.\ Union College did not want to follow this type of plan, f\ instead of deciding to replace the elm trees as they died with different types of trees, while at the same time making a small effort to save the remaining elms. A slight split has developed between members of the planting committee. Professor Huntley stated, \We would like to see all the same types of trees in an area tor aesthetic reasons.\ According to Biology Professor Peter See Lee Continued from Page 5 concentrated his Comp. Ed. studies in the options in creativity. !his has allowed Lee to pursue some of his own creative interests. such as his theatrical work in Fngland for which he received independent study credit. I ee is eon-.Idering graduate work in drama for next year. I his commg term he hopes to lmd work somewhere 111 \ew York City. :\~ I.ee sat hdorc the drcs-.mg rtHHn mirror. dahh1ng green and gold grca~cpaint around \anous parts ol h1\ face and the mask he \\Ill he usmg lor The Tempest, he -.tressed the ahdity ol the -.tudent to make I :nion's format work for him. Ill stead ot tmn \\ork mg I or it. Watching the 7 or X other student. also diligently invol\cd in applying the stage make-up (something you learn to do for vourselt 111 all Mounties productiOns) and listening to the ten or twel\e others setting up the lights and touchmg up the rnassl\c set created lor this productiOn ol the l empest. it hceame clear that l :nion is not de\ nrd ol all artistic endeavors. nor Is 11 lackmg tn people \\11ling to hecome Ill\ olved in them. Our school 1\ hnnted in facilities. hut tor man\. the /\rts and possihle career-. in 1t an: not unfounded dreams eoming from li nion. Hut for no\\. the effort must come pnmanl;. t rom the student. A\\- ' '\' A~ \'<:< y ~ t ...... ~- <'{';/, t_'i 1' .. , \fi < • ... ~. ~ '~··' This picture, which appeared in 1967 in The New York Times, showed the beginnings of the planned Elm Tree replacement. lohiesseri. \A diversity of trees will be ecologically safer because a new disease would only be able to wipe out one type of tree while not wiping out the rest of trees on campus.\ The committee reached a compromise by deciding to plant only one type of tree along a given road while having other types in other areas. This compromise resulted in the planting of red maples, lindens, and sugar maples, among others. I he planting committee each year picks one area of the campus to replant and beautify. Last year work was done around Payne Uatc, President Bonner's House and the Blue Gate. According to Huntley. plans for this year include a doubling of the number of trees around Hale House and the Psychology building. There is also a plan to build a garden on the hill behind Schaffer Libary which would include herbs and Basil Payne Continued from Page 5 he presents a significant poem with subdued rhyme (i.e. .. Hail Felo De Se. well met, In memory of John Berryman). If Payne can eontinue to write with such balance. his future poetry will be witty, powerful. and above all, readable. map1e trees. Future plans include planting around Achilles Rink. \A beautiful campus can have a good effect on admissions,\ says Huntley. He feels that a prospective student at Union is influenced by the way the campus looks an attractive campus can only influence students for the better. Pre-registration materials for spring term 1975-76 will be available at the Office of the Reghtrar, Room 2, Administration Building, beginning Monday, February 23rd. Students are urged to promptly secure their copy of these materials. Students who do not plan to return to Union for the' spring term, ex.;ept for graduating seniors, must immediately give notice of their plans to the Office of the Dean of Students. events or situations in words. But a problem arises when he does nothing to develop these observations once he makes them. He lets thern stand alone as mere observations (which some may consider to be valid). He does nothing to instill significance or meaning in what he observes. Because Payne does not develop an added significance, he tends to focus on the strueturc of the poem. Unfortunately, in many cases. this means excessive rhyme. An example comes in \A Winter's I ale,\ a poem which he read from his latest book entitled, Another Kind uf Optimism. Payne write~. Tenure • • CriSIS \why do they try to def~ ~imple arithmatic any more than I should tr} to expect .. ... It goes on. II this heavy and repeated rh~ me ~er\ es any purpo~e at all. It 1s onl;. to exting.ui~h any sort of \alue in Payn~:·~ poetry. I owar<.b the end of Payne's reading. fortunately a third \otce anses. I his \oice successfully comhmcs both the con lessional and satirit:al aspeets 1>l hi-. earlier poems. lie finds the balance het ween emotional devt.:lopmcnt and ;.tru~.:tural prc-.cntation, and Continued from Page I result m departmental honors. !\his docs not count all research projects. I he 25 honors projects outnumber the rest of the p.,ychology Department faculty 'ponsored student research put together. In the Psychology Department. as opposed to some other departments. working with 'tudents honors research does not usually lead to teaehing credit. Prot. Hertlwld asked recently. \What is the function of research at t:n,on in a department that is not primarily experimentally oncnted'! Can a faculty member JUstify limiting the research opportunities nl ad\anced i11 response to the tenure situation. and specifically the case of Howard Berthold. Four faculty members and 41 students were present. Students were curious as to the reason Prof. Bert hold was not grar• ·d tenure. I hey hclievcd that the ·ljuahty\ of the research was being 4uestioned beeause it involved helping students at times. It was felt that the ~tudents had no right to evaluate or judge Prof. Berthold's research, hut they felt some form of action was neeessary. Hockey playoff picture students to only his narrowly defined area. or is the more Important function to try to give creditahle guidance to research proJects which interest the students'!\ I his was the third meeting by students and by this time an organi;ed student effort with direction and help from faculty was initiated. It was hoped to get away from sympathy and: or grass roots effort. It was felt that a well organi1ed studcnt-facult) effort would he the most effective approach. !he issue of Prof. Berthold was to be approached from five different angles: I) Research; what is the role of the professor·) 2) Petition for support. .~) Input to President Bonner and the Hoard of I ru~tees; input to high '>eedmg. After seed in g. the tnurnament ):!allle;. will matt:h up Irl the lolhming. way: fir'>! ..,eed vs. eighth '>eed; second seed \s. seventh seed: th1rJ seed vs. sixth '>eed; fourth '>eed \s. the fi.fth '>eed. l he ..,cmt-final round will h:nc the lnghest remaining seeds playing the corresponding lower remaining '>eeds. I he winners of th1s round will play m the Championship game (I here will he 110 eonsolat1on game.) lhe a<.:tuat ;,eedmg process i~ ..,chedult:d to take plaee thts '>unday mght. !·chruar:- 2\lth. l't.:ndmg the results of 1>1\ 1!-.1011 II actHHl Juring thi,, week, t:nmn '>hould tmd Itself With a high seed. As it stands rigpt now. lJ nion's Continued from Page I '>ecdtng and po!>.siblc opponents ;.hape up 111 tim !ashton. hrst. the tea rn wIll he the u nd1sputed W e'ol I >1\ Is !On Champion'> h\ \ irtue of Its record and mmt prohahly cho~cn as the top representati\e hy the West -.eleetron suhcommittce. Seeding by the full sclet·tion committee. though. may he a hit more difficult to discern. a~ many factor~ have to be evaluated helore a denston can he reached. I aking into eonsideration the politteal nature of the ~election proeess. Union should receive the seeond or third seed 111 the eight team field. I his position would give Unwn at least one home game in the play-off-; and pos~ihly two depending agam on the outcome of the game~ and the seeding. Possthle npponents lor l :mnn in the I irst game include Huflalo. Ham !It on. Army. or American I ntcrnat ional College. Other top seeded teams v.ill undouhtcdly he Merrimack. Bowdoin. Osw.qw State. and Salem State. whu.:h arc currently ranked one. three. four and five. l he H ·Ac. as with all other post season tournaments. wi II control the games and dictate the ticket policy. Union authorities arc 111 the proce:-.s of makmg plans for the tournament; students. faculty. and staff will be informed a\ '>Oon as the plan!-> arc linali;cd. !he views expressed above by Professor Berthold parallel those of the Chairman of the Biology Department. Willard Roth. Roth. in a lJ nion College publication, staled, \I would like to make a pcr\on<tl p1teh lor the fact that many. many good faculty members at Union College do s1gmficant scholarly work. I he pnrnary emphasis of II. however. Is not to play a major role in expanding the frontiers of know ledge. hut rather to hring a full. up-to-date in-depth awareness to their teaching of u nde rg radua tes.\ Prof. Roth placed an emphasis on the undergraduate at ll nion. Prot. Herthold in both thought and act1on makes the same kind of emphasis. On Monday. hhruary 23. a student-faculty meeting was held the Advi!->orv Cvmmittce. 4) I· a c u I t y . ' u p p o r I . 5 ) Comrnumcation to maintain a consistent and loeuscd voice by the students. It was apparent that students aeross the campus were not happy with the tenure process although they did respect the amount of time. energy and consideration which went into the decision. What was of maJor importance was the peculiarity ot the situation where one committee apparently overturned the decision ot another. l \

' • a a IS pus the g, ry t() of of ' ere it ;it nts but by an get hat I) the to 4) 5) a by of lOll on. nee the the : ~ i ~ ' ' !l '. I I r I I 'l j ' I ! ! ! ! 1 . \ ' i ' ' ' I. \ .l· ~ ? 't \ j ! 1:. ' \ i ':I '.\ \lJ ' <;/ ')~' /! '.;.'·: !' ~ ~' c·~ '· 1 r~ \.) {) \ ii ). ~ :· ~ ', i I ' . '· :~~ r} t ,, ;f.-; ,' ;~, ' \ ' , ... ,. I ~' - .-! ) --'~ ·, .1/ {··~, ' ' . 5 j ~ ' I 1 t'. -~ \ .:- I; (~ . .'\ ·, ' i' .~ ( { ~ . )' -c-~ :; ' --!' t I ,_,, /:-!, ', ' CONCORDIENS/S, Wedf!esday, Feb. 25, 1976 Paf.(e 9 Calendar . ' . . . ' ' . . . . . . ' . . . ' ~ ' ' . ' - . . - . . - ' . . - ' . - . ' . . . . . Th.urs., February 26 Sha·Na-Na presented by the Union College Social Committee at 9:00p.m. in Memorial Chapel. Tickets are going fast and there are not that many left. They may be purchased all day Thurs<lay at Student Activities. $3.00 for Union Students and $4.50 for Non. Tickets go on sale at the door at 6 for $3.50. (Union students) and $5.00 (non- students). Student Forum meeting; 6:30 in Fox Lounge. Admissions and Squa Hers Rights will be discussed. Meeting of the American Society of Civil Engineers in Strauss Lounge .,at 7:30 p.m. David Seal from the New York State Dept. of Transp.or.tati.on (Research), will present a lecture on \Curved Girder Bridges: Why They Collapse.\ The entire college c-ommunity is welcome. Refreshments will be served. PLEASE NOTE: this meeting will not interfere with the Sha- Na-Na concert. Fri., February 27 _. Women's Coffee House.: featuring Teresa Trull, blues guitarist; T ri~City Women's Center, 3 Lodge St., Albany, 8:30 p.m. Donation $2.00 or whatever you can afford; all Women Welcome. For further information, contact Sharon Stonekey at 463-4698. Dept. of Modern Languages and Literature. Speaker Prof. Emelio Bejel, associate professov of Spanish at Fairfield University will speak on Critical Approacnes to Lite ra·t u re, e S<J!lecially StructuraJ,ism and Post- structuralism in, the Humanities Faculty Lounge at 3:00 p.m. Montebanks production of William Shakespeare's The Tempest at 8 p.m. in the Nott Memorial Theatre. Tickets may be purchased in the Nott between l and 5:30 p.m. Film Committee presents That's Entertainment at I 0:00 in SS016. Admission is $ LOO. Super Growler Weekend at the Rathskeller. Growlers for $ 1.50, refills for .90 from 7-1<2 p.m. Also, the pinball tournament finals are from 7-lO. Professor Phyliss Morris of Kirkland College will deliver a talk on Sartre's notion of self- deception at 3 p.m. in Humanities 213. All interested faculty and students are invited to attend. Refreshments will be served .. Sat., February 28 The Flying Dutchmen's Grank Finale vs. Those Skaters from the Hinderland (Cortland) at Achilles Rink at 3 p.m. Catfish spots Union 15 goals! Freshmen Basketball, Union vs. Albany, at 6 p.m. in the Fieldhouse. Hoopsters take on Jumbos. (Union vs. Tufts) Last Home game; come watch John Denio, Joel Fisher, and Steve Kelly in their grand finale at 8 p.m. under the Big Top. Mountefuanks ,production of WHliam Shakespeare's The Tempest at 8 in the Nott Memorial Theatre. Tickets may be purchased in the Nott between I and 5:30 p.m. Square Dance ...... sponsored by Chemistry Club, Old Chapel at lO p.m. Joe Cardillo and The Outlaw Beer Band, 8:30 p.m., MOther's Wine Emporium, RPL Super Growler Weekend at the Rathskeller. Growlers for $1.50, refills for .90, all day long. Film Committee presents That's Entertainment at 7, 9: 15 and 11:30 p.m. m SSOI6. Admission $1.00. Sun., February 29 Tueso, March. 2 Lab Theatre, Carnegie Hall: The Union College Glee Club The Stronger, a one act play by will perform with the Wheaton August Strindberg. This is a work College Glee Club Haydns, in progress performance for the \Theresien Messe\ and Billings . drama class. The public is invited \Universal Praise.\ Free to 1Jnion to come to see the play, and stay Students with I. D.'s. Memorial for a discussion afterwards. It will Chapel, 4 p.m. be performed again in the FHm Committee presents Cabaret on March II. With Th ' E · 7 9 15 Nancy Golden and Judy Kottke, at s · ntertamment at , : d II 30 · SSO 1 Directed by Blair Reischer. · an · : p.m. m · · 6. Admission'is $1.00. The Film Committee presents Celebration of. Catholic Mass Little Caesar at 8 and 10 p.m. in at 7:30 p.m. in Strauss Lounge, SSO 16. Admission is 50¢. followed by a social. Students, faculty, staff, all welcome! · Sponsored by Newman Campus Ministry. Mountebanks production of William. Shakespeare's The Tempest at 8 in the Nott Memorial Theatre. Tickets may be purchased in the N ott between 1 and 5:30 p.m. Mon., March. 1 Intellectual Cabaret: Andy Warde and Gard Ketchum will discuss Technology and the Humanities. 8:30p.m. in Cabaret. Free Refreshments. Wed., March. 3 Rusty Rhodes will speak on Conspiracies in America, The Assassinations of the Kennedys and King, and Wallace. Presented by the Speakers Forum in SSOI6 at 8. Students 25'i:, everyone else 75¢. Mountebanks production of William Shakespeare's The Tempest at 8 in the Nott Memorial Theatre. Tickets may be purchased in the Nott between I and 5:30 p.m. Union College Women's Glee Club 8 p.m., Memorial Chapel. Free.

a a IS an he e e re se ty rc ot at as it at ut as by th ty or ve Jf. l ) he rt. to 4) 5) a by PY of he he l ' CONCORDIENS/S, Wednesday, Feb. 25, /976 Calendar Thurs., February 26 Sha-Na-Na presented by the Union College Social Committee at 9:00 p.m. in Memorial Chapel. Tickets are going fast and there are rwt that many left. l\hey may be purchased all day Thursday at Student Activities. $3.00 for Union Students and $4.50 for l\;on. Tickets go on sale at the door at 6 for $3.50. (Union students) and $5.00 (non- students). Student Forum meeting; 6:30 in Fox Lounge. Admissions and Squatters Rights will be discussed. Meeting of the American Society of Civil Engineers in Strauss Lounge at 7:30 p.m. David Beal from the New York State Dept. of Transportation (Research), will present a lecture on \Curved Girder Bridges: Why They Collapse.\ The entire college community is welcome. Refreshments will be served. PLEASE NOTE: this meeting will not interfere with the Sha- Na-Na concert. Fri., February 27 Wo·men's Coffee House: featuring Teresa Trull, blues guitarist; ·rri-City Women's Center, 3 Lodge St., Albany, 8:30 p. rn. Donation $2.00 or whatever you can afford; all Women Welcome. For further il'lformatioA, contact Sharon Stonekey at 463-4698. Dept. of Modern Languages and Literature. Speaker Prof. Emelio Bejel, associate professor of Spanish at Fairfield University will speak on Critical Approacnes to Literature, especially Structuralism and Post- structuralism in the Humanities Faculty Lounge at 3:00 p.m. Montebanks production of William Shakespeare's The Tempest at 8 p.m. in the Nott Memorial Theatre. Tickets may be purchased in the Nott between 1 and 5:30 p.m. Film Committee presents That's Entertainment at 10:00 in SSO 16. Admission is $1.00. Super Growler Weekend at the Rathskeller. Growlers for $1.50, refills for .90 from 7-12 p.m. Also, the pinball tournament finals are from 7-10. Professor Phyliss Morris of Kirkland College will deliver a talk on Sartre's notion of self- deception at 3 p.m. in Humanities 213. All interested faculty and students are invited to attend. Refreshments will be served. LETIERS student(?) productions in defense of peck Continued from Pagt 7 Continued from Page 6 alternatives to the . present student government support to . . put some pressure on the faculty sltuatwn: h h cl' f L' b k I. The Student Tax Committee on t e an. tng out o me ac er should refuse to finance Faculty questi6naires. A letter was sent by Ken Stone, Brian I ucker and directed and designed productions. This would force the Dean Lichterma'l urging the Arts Department and the fa.culty to hand out the Ad . . . k quest_ ionaires. And last term _the ln!UIStratlOn tO rna e a f' · · · · d · · h . . .1rst mcrease m respcmses m years · ec1s1o~ as t~ t e1r commitment was recorded. with over 50 percent to a_ ~lable. live theatre program of the courses responding. This . Rl lm10n ........ k · f 5 · . mar s an mcrease o over 0 . 2. The Tax Commltt~e sh_ou_ld percent (from 30 percent). from tmpose and enforce stnct lm11ts last sp ··n t m G t d • 11 g er . 1ran e , more on the amount o: money \pent responses are needed, hut we had for each prodttctwn. regardless taken a ·b 1 · 1 · th · ht f F 1 · . 1 · · g s ep m e ng o acu ty mvo vcmen~. , . direction, only to be derailed by _ 3. ,The Tax C'nmmtttee shoul~ the Tax Committee. t eqmre that the Mountebanks 4) Your history lesson doesn't hudget he spent e~enly on a term teH the whole story. You give last ~y term basts and n.ot years Tax committee the credit(?) squand~red o? . one masstve for removing the grades from productmn. Thts ts. for the s~me Linebacker. This explanation of . re_mwn that the Soct.al C'0mmtttee the events is flawed. a) If the Tax tnes to have co~c:rt~ ~.very term, Committee had the power to rather than one htg~ne. a ~ear. remove the grades from Wh~tever happe~s. It IS clear Unebac,ker why didn't they put that ·ftscal leadershlJ'I must come them back in Linebacker from . the Student Tax when it was the Tax C'ommlttee. The Mountebanks' Committee who stated that F..xecut!v~ :Board has proved itself UW!ha&.er is \\Useless without to he un.anfe f<l contfot .. hdty.Jts grades\? b) Why on earth would money ~~ spent. MuCh a!l l the Tax Committee have the ad~ire the artistf'y Profes~ors power to remove grades from Smuh andStecklerhave put mto Linebacker? The Tax this .Productio.n, I cann~t suppo:t C:ommittee's responsibility is to the tdea that 'we need tt. cost 1s dtsperse Student Activity money no o~ject.\ which has been a amongst the many activities here. common attitude this term in the They have as much to do with the Nott. Cost does matter. when decisions at Linebacker(grades or you are spendin!! my student tax no grades) as they do with the ·money. daily programming at WRUC. I have heen closely involved i.e., nothing! No, the Tax with this prnduction. and I Committee had very little to do expect it to he of high caliher. I with the removal of the grades ur~e everyone to take thi~ from Linebac-ker, but it was true ·•l'portunity to see an excellent that Dean Lichterman. play. and perhaps tn think a little. representing the faculty, pushed Sincerely. for the elimination of grades from Blair Reischer Linbaeker because students were choosing courses according to how easy the professor graded the Sat., February 28 The Flying Dutchmen's Grank Finale vs. Th.ose Skaters from the Hindcrlat1d (Cortland) at Achilles Rink at 3 p.m. Catfish spots Union 15 goals! Freshmen Basketball, Union vs. Albany, at 6 p.m. m the Fieldhouse. Hoopsters take on Jumbos. (Union vs. Tufts) Last Home game; come watch John Denio, Joel Fisher, and Steve Kelly in their grand finale at 8 p.m. under the Big Top. Mountebanks production of William Shakespeare's The Tempest at 8 in the Nott Memorial Theatre. Tickets may be purchased in the Nott between I and 5:30 p.m. Square Dance - sponsored by Chemistry Club, Old Chapel at 10 p.m. Joe Cardillo and The Outlaw Beer Band, 8:30 p.m., MOther's Wine Emporium, RPI. Super Growler Weekend at the Rathskeller. Growlers for $1.50, refills for . 90, all day long. Film Committee presents That's Entertainment at 7, 9: 15 and 11:30 p.m. m SSOI6. Admission $1.00. Sun.~ February 29 The l1nion College Glee Club will perform \.\lth the Wheaton College Glee Club Haydns, \l\heresien Messe\ and Billings \Universal Praise.\ hee to 1Jnion Students with I. D.'s. Mem01 ;:.:1 Chapel. 4 p.m. Film Committee That's Entertainment and 11:30 p.m. Admission is $1.00. presents at 7, 9:15 in SSOl6. Celebration of Catholic Mass at 7:30 p.m. in Strauss Lounge, followed by a social. Students, faculty, staff, all welcome! Sponsored by :\cwman Campus Ministry. Mountebanks production of William Shakespeare's The Tempest at !l m the r-; ott Memorial Theatre. Tickets may be purchased in the Nott between I and 5:30 p.m. Mon .. , March I mtellectual Cabaret: Andy Warde and Gard Ketchum will discuss Technology and the Humanities. 8:30p.m. in Cabaret. Free Refreshments. students. here. Which all means to me that 5) You sum up Linebacker's there is a place for a course present output(changes were in evaluation here, if the t:mly the the offing) as a \meaningless Tax Committee would let it morass of numbers\. Let me tell survive. Look, anybody can make you Matt, if you don't have the a mistake, and the Tax committee intelligence to figure out has in this case. 'Onlv a fool Linebacker, then I believe you won't admit his mistake, however. will be m a lot of trouble when Having leaders at this school that you re<;eive your first Income Tax don't lead, don't admit mistakes, form. No. I have a little more and look incompetent in the eyes faith in the students at Union in of the student body, well, ifs no that l believe they are smart wonder apathy is running enough to figure out Linebacker, rampant here. Here is a case, the even if you don't. Linebacker staff, where students 6) You declare the Linebacker worked hard and put in their time chosen lith on the priority poll on a volunteer basis. only to be · was the Linebacker that cut off by the Tax Committee. included grades\. Such Such students have every right to .speculation is absurd, stnce there be apathetic, since getting was no mention of grades on the involved has only o;crvcd to ballot, it is impossible to prove frustrate them. Keep it up Tax that th~ students had grades on Committee, and eventually their mmds when they chose everybudy will be apathetic but Linebacker. H,owever, the fact you. l would only hope that the remains that Linebacker (with no Tax Committee reconsiders their mention of grades} was picked cut and allows Linebacker to llth, the students had made their continue. choice. Now we are told that \The majority of students feel thflt Linebacker could be useful with Sincerely Bill Peck •76 Co-editor, Linebacker grades.\ Maybe your friends, Matt, but not mine. As l said two weeks ago, the inclusion of grades in Uneba.:ker would only serve to linebacker allow students the unethical practice of choosing professors wronged upon the criteria of how they grade. On a campus that. is incredibly grade consciou.s as it Continued from Page 6 is, this would only serve to an attempt to improve our worsen the situation. And. in my present method of student course opinion, anyone-who believes that evaluation. They never even grades are the most important considered that l have been m part of Linebacker is to some close contact· with the editor of degree a grade grubber. the C(}!umbia~Barnard Course The basic'\' fact remains that Guide in al'l attempt to benefit their is a definte ne~d for· a: from their lnn)J and successful student co~rse eva!uat~on. The experience in this field, and to use faculty . thmk~ so htghly of · their system as a prototype for evaluatiOns wuhout grades that Union. They never even each ?~partment wa~ requ~red to considered that plans are being have lt s own evaluation th1s year. made to introduce a new course The Lineba.:ker ott1ce has evaluation at Union that would T~e Lineba~er oflice has re* be among the best there is. They ce1ved. evaluattons fro~ many col- never realized how many leges 1n the east, and m the 15 or students, fa c u 1 t y , and so that I have seen, not one has administrators have offerred to gr~des. Yet the~e schools seem to help improve and work on thmk that havmg a student run Llnebaeker with us. c~urse evaluation is useful I could not expect them to Without grades. As a ~atter of know that such plans are being fact, most of the respective course formulated since 1 have never told eva.luations are institutions op them; However, they never gave thetr campuses, as Concordv 1s me an opportunity to tell them in Tues., March Pa~e 9 ') ..... Lab Theatre, Carnegie Hall: The Stronger, a one act play by August Strintlherg. I hi~ i~ a \.\ork in progress performance for the drama class. I he public is invited to come to see the play, and stay for a discussion afterwards. It will be performed agam Ill the Cabaret on March II. With :--;ancy Golden and Judy Kottke. Directed by Blair Reischcr. lhe Film Committee presents Lillie Caesar at g and 10 p.m. in SSOl6. Admission is 50Q:. Wed.~ March 3 Rusty Rhodes will speak on Conspiracies in America, The Assassinations of the Kennedys and King, and Wallace. Presented by the Speakers Forum in SSOl6 at K Students 25~t, everyone else 754:. Mountebanks production of William Shakespeare's The Tempest at X in the Nott Memorial Theatre. I ickets may be purchased in the f'.iott between I and 5:30 p.m. l'nion College Women's Glee Club X p.m., Memorial Chapel. Free. a public forum .. The least they could have done was postpone debate and allow us to speak at a future meeting. Grandiose incompetence, as has been committed by this committee in recent weeks, is grounds for re5ignation or impeachment. l really don't enjoy writing such derogatory letters. And Matt Briefs's point (in last week's letter) concerning personal cheap ·shots is well taken. However, the impropneties suffered by • Linebacker are taken not only as a personal blow to Bill and I but also as evidence of a type of leadership that is not healthy to a college government or to the students it serves. These facts l'Pmpell me to bring this matter into public view where the ~tudents can see the machinations of the body who controls their tax money. Linebacker is net deiJd. No rnauer ·what anyone tells you. I can only look forward to the day (lr \- ol. I No. I of the New Union Co!lege Course Guide. It'll be· grt:<tt, despite the tax committee. Respedftdly, Kenneth Stone Editor-Linebacker - ticket trouble Continued from Page 7 when i ask for an equal chance. Madison Square Garden seats 17.500 and doesn't play favorites. With only 3,500, why should we'l Thank you. Cordially Yours, . Scott Klion, Murray Levison, ami Section L

Page 10 CONCORD!ENSIS, Wednesday, Feb. 25, 1976 ClaSslflecls ,· '' ' ' ' '.· ' ' \ . . ' ' . . .·' ' . . . . ' . ' . . . . . ' : . . . . . . . .. · . DO YOU CAREahout keeping Professor Howard Berthold at Union\ If ,o, plea'e write a letter to President B0nner or Prnfc·\nr Gati 'tating vour \ie~'· 1t u' ur)lt'nt that vou expre\ vour 'ltpport in thi' i\ue NOW. If vou are intere,ted and wi'h to work more exten,ivelv on hehalf of Profe\or Rerthnld. there i' a )!fillip of 'tudenh doin_g ju,t that right no~. Plea'e contact Jim Ke,tenhaum at WJ-95~5 nr Mike Kramer at ~70-6514 if vou would like to tom 11'. YOU ARF l'RGFNTI.Y '\;fFIJFO' RADIO STATION WRUC-AM would like to thank all their li,tenef' for the 'upport !liven durin!! the recent Leukemia radinthnn. a comhined effort with WPTR of Alhany. The event was once again quite a 'ucce'' this \'ear for WPTR and this was the fiN year that WR UC' carried it. At last count. a total of $24. I 10.84 had heen pled,!!ed. JOHN K. JESSUP, Coordinator of Venture Program. will he holding interviews in the Placement Office on Tue,dav. Mareh 2. If vou are interested. please come in and si!!n up. FOLLOWING is a list of Union College sport in!! events to h~ heard on WR UC' durin!! the next week: Wednesday the 25th. home Ha,kethall vs. Bin!!hamton at 7:55 p.m.: Saturdav the 28th. Home hockey vs. Cortland at 2:55 p.m.. and home Basketball vs. Tufts at 7:55 p.m. RADIO STATION WRUC will he providing the entertainment at a record hop to he held in the basement of Richmond House on the llnion (\ollege !!rounds followin!! the Union-Tufts haskethall !!arne. The party should start at 10 p.m. and last until ahout I a.m. Many different types of music will be played. but disco will he featured. . - The Classifieds Page of the New CONCORDIENSIS is primarily a student service; as such, ~~~- material .submitted will be published FREE of charge. To insure that tile items submitted are ·printed, all copy MUST be in· by Monday at S:OO PM •. Items to be repeated. must. h~;eJhe number of runs specified. The Union CoUege CONCO·RDIENSIS assumes no responsibility for typographical errors, but will print· a correction. If you want a ride, or you have something to sell, or you simply want to see something of your own printed up in a major world .publication, PLEASE, don't hesitatt! This is a FREE senice, sQ take advantage of it. If you, wish to submit material which conforms to the format of the Classifieds Page, simply slip it under th';. Concordy Office door (third floor Carnegie) or .leave it with yours truly, Todd Miller at 224 West. WRUC F.M. and A.M. pro)!rammn .. ~uide' arc nnw :nuilable for free to llninn C'olle~c 'tudents. faculty. and administ·rator'. A limited number have heen printed and you are advised to ohtain vour\s as 'oon as possihle. To rick nne up. ~top hv the 'tudios on the second floor of Carnegie Hal!. or give the station a call at (I !51 and ask tn have ii sent through campus mail... others may 'ecure proj!ramming guides by mailing 13¢ po,ta!Je to \WRUC Programmi.ng Guide. lfnion C'olle!!e. Schccnctady, New York 12308.\ THERE WILL BE a combined WRUC exeeutive board meetin!!. of both the old a.nd new exeuctive boards. this Monday. March !st. in the WR UC lounge on the 'econd floor of Carnegie Hall. The meeting will hej!in at 7:30 p.m. and all memhers of the Union College community are invited to attend to di,cu\ the future of radio at Union. Beerlovers, do vou want to win a free case of heer? All vo~ have to do is submit a striking name for a sailboat. If your name is selected for the boat. you will win a case of beer of vour choice (within reason). Please submit · names by campus mail to Box 897. ANYONE INTERESTED in helping out an active Cadette troop in the immediate Scheneetady community on Thursday evenings please call Roherta at 370-6540. All thos~ Interested in !)Ianning the Senior Class dinner-<lance to be •held Friday, June II', please leave your name with Mrs. Marra in the Student Activities Office. A subcommit.tee of the Committee on Faculty is reviewing -our present tenure system. ·If you- have opinions that y8u want heard. whether they are suggestions or just complaints, please contact Audrey Kupchan in 215 Fox. 346 -9227. or stop hv the mailroom during mass mailin!! h~urs l.nput of any sort from students will he helpful. Feedhack from students who have heen involved in a tenure decision in the past (i.e. from those who have appeared tenure a tenure committee) would he especially appreciated. The Union College Protect Y·our Environment Club is now selling tickets for the Grass Roots '76 Capital District Area Bicentenial Celebration to he held at the Mohawk Mall on the evening of February 29th. Many environmentalists and historians will attend including Lt. Governor Mary Ann Krupsak. Tickets are $7.50 and $3.75 for students. Contact Bob Clarke at Chi Psi-346-9824. The next meeting of the Studcnt-F.aculty Brid!!e Club will be held on Tuesday. March 2nd at 7:45 P.m. in the Hale House Upper Lounge. Results of the last meeting were: First · place: Millman- Gordon, Second 'Place: Mills-Sommer. Thjrd Place: Parker-Warner. LOST: One pair of ·brown leather ,gloves in SS Lounge: Persona) gift ef value -- reward. Contact D. Plumer at 346-9225. LOST: One boy's blue sock. This sock -has great sentimental value, so please, if you find it, return it to me at Beta. Ask for Peter McManli:~- APTS IMPROVE YOUR CUMEII! tired of n.oisv dorms? Seeking 'erenitv in a buccolic 'ettinl!~ We have just the place. Call F'oteric Retre<lls Inc. for an idy.llic spr,in!! term :r77-IS09. Sankyew. · RED, WHITE OR BLUE roommate wanted for a super patriotic hicentennial spring term. D.A.R. applicants given preference. No hermaphrodites, alcohol\cs, pr pamy 'tudents need apply. Call 111ium awav from homes Homes Association. 377- IR09. Special llicentenhial rates if ym1 dial now. Sankvew. ROOMMATE WANTED for spring term. Fastern Ave .. apt. Location: l.atmdromat downstair'<. grocery .across street. one hlock from church. close proximity to the. Ke!!. the Puh. the Midhill. the Eastem Ave. Tavern. and Alj!ur Liquor 'Center. Ten short minutes from campus (especially en route from the Keg. the Puh. the Midhill. the Fastern Ave. Tavern. and the Al!!ur I iquor Center). TDDAY'S CIUSSIDBD PUZZLB Las·t week~s puzzle solved:.' Do you coll!lder yourself artistic? If so, enter the W.RU.C. Logo contest. The winning design will be used on T-shirts and in ads. For more information. contact Lloyd Saerski at the station or call 370- 6151. Fifty dollar,< per month includes all ·utilities and rent. Call377-1809. Sankyew. ·Roommate WRDted, spring term. Nice place two blocks from the campus. Furnished. Own bedroom. Living room. Close to the market, bank, etc. $80/month per person {heat and hot water included). About $10/month per person gas and electric. Contact Mike, campus box #8. AC~~ss Slang 1 Wh1t1~ of 58 Semiaquatic complexion rodents: 5 Expectorated 2 words 9 Shoelace tag 62 Hindu guitar 14 Asian port 63 The end of 15 Golf course feature 16 Recurobent 17 Ranchers 19 Analvze grammar 20 Greek marketplace 21 Livestock food 23 Ottawa legislative body 25 Threesome 26 Oblong metal blocks 28 Hibernates 32 Marine reptiles: 2words 37 Gravity: Prefix 38 Citrus drink 39 Makesa phone call 41 ----Arbor 42 Cables 45 Formal accounts 48 Gems 50 Small bird 51 Rubbish: Informal 54 Intoxicated: 64 Peace symbol:2 words 66 African cat 67 Pram pusher 68 Periods preceding events. 69 Rutabaga 70 Form of precipitation 71 Relaxation DOWN 1 So.Amer. rodents 2 Short maxim 3 Pretend: 2 words 4 Catches 5 Rider Haggard novel 6 Splendor · 7 Mentally perceptive 8 General sense 9 Urgent requests 10 Personof eminence 11 Domineer 12 Ending with incandint 13 Driver, in golf 18 language of old 22 --- a-vis: Face to face 24 Mildoath Z1 Theatrical sketch 29 Epochs 30 Coniferous tree 31 Offspring 32Loggers tools 33 Correct 34 Of aircraft 35 Grain spike 36 Large number: Informal 40 Famous puppeteer 43 Penetrated 44 Notch 46 Make fun of 47 Accepted clique member 49 ---- Galahad 52 Leased as security 53 .. ____ _ Brand\: Hawthorne title 55 Household appliance 56 Roof edges 57 Clothed: Obs. 58 Waddles 59 Over again 60 Ribbon: Comb. form 61 Oriental prefix 65 Gameof marbles TillS COMING MONDAY, MARCH lst election will be held for Junior Class Representative. Only re!!istered Juniors may vote. Ballots will he taken in Carnegie Hall from 9 a.m. to 9 p:m. If at all possihle let your opinion be l<nown. Vote! Do not he l.a7y. HILLEL has arranged to open the Davidson Co-op for Passover. There will ·he a meetin!! for students interested' in joininj! a Kosher for Passover Cooperative Kitchen in the C'o-op this sprinj! term. A TID will huv wholesale food. kosher .the Co-op kitche~. and set up a schedule for the kitcheri. For more information come to SSIIO at 7:30pm on Sunday. Fehruary 29, 197fi. lf vou cannot attend, call Irving Kaufman ~t 370-6680. NOW IS THE TIME to speak out if you want to help shape priorities for academic computin!! at llni on. 'fhe Academic Computing Advisory Board is currently assessinl! priorities to be implemented in 197fi-RO. Input from any interested student is welcome. including specific requests for hardware or software. Request forms are available in the Computer Center Office and should he returned there hv March 12. More information can he obiained from anv member of the Board. Student m~mhers are Bill Mart in (Fiji. Box 852) and Alan Kusinit7 (1030 Gillespie St.. Box 1579). Facultv members aree Profs. Holmes (!A). Ht1ll (Chern), Mason (C'E)p. Nichols (PS). Schmidt (Eco ). Schwar7 (('S). and G. Williams (EEl. VOLUNTEERS NEEDED at the Schenectadv Jewish Community Cente-r to work oti the Purim carnival which will he . held March 14. If interested. contact: Allan Krie!Jer at the Center. Sundav - Thursday after 2 PM. at 377-R&03. LOST&FOUND LOST - Male muti. part beagle. rrarne Tim. brown hack, white chest ahd legs. hrown collar. 6-8 months old. ca!I 372~8935. FOUND: hv ·Prof. Walhek. A calculator in the Social Science~ huildin!!. Check with him to claim it. FOUND: one sweater in SSO·l6 after. Blazing Saddles on Sundav. Call Lew at 372-0172 to identifv. LOST: One ( 1\ Kevin Kardos. I ast seen 'itt in!! in front nf hi• locker after the Ithaca j!Hme. If found. please return to the Achilles Rink. LOST: a woman's hraeelet. Solid !!old. with !!Old danf!lin!! heads. If foLmd. please return. Reward. no questions asked. Call 372-lfiRI. It\ of !!rc~ll 'enlimental value. Female housemate wanted for Spring Term in a congenial Wendell Ave. apartment. Five minute walk from campus, four bedrooms. two fireplaces (living · room, back yard), inexpensive. Don't miss out on the joys of spring off-campus. Call: 377-4904. TWO AVERAGE NORMAL folk seeking other av~age normal people who ha·ve an average of fifty dollars a month to spend on rent .and utilities for a normal apt. call 377-1809. Sankyew. RIDE WANTED to Rochester on Fridav. Feh. 27. Call Holly at 393-9740. · RIDE WAN'FED to New York. Friday the 27th. returning Sunday. Contaet JoAnn at 393-58Sti. RIDE WANTED to Washington. DC'. l.eavinj! the 26th or 27th. returnin!( at 29th or 30th. Will j!ladly share driving and expenses if necessarv. Please ca II Sheila at • 377-8470. RIDE WANTED to Middletown, Conn. or 'l!ffounding area. Leaving the 27-th; returnih!! the 29th. Please call Audrey. at 370-MRI. RIDE WANTED to Lon!! Island. Friday. Feh. 27. Call! i7 at 346-9212. RIDE WANTED to Boston. Fri. afternoon on Fe h. 27. Call Dee at 346-9491. RIDE W ANTI!:D to Northern NJ or the Port AuthoritY in Ne:w York. Leaving Feh. 27 and returning the 29th. Call Mike at 372-16~ f. RIDE WANTED to lT. of Penn .. Thursdav. Feb. 26 or Fridav the 27th. Will share drivin!! and expenses.' Ca-ll Elli~. 346- 9292. RIDE WANTlm to Svracuse. Frldav. Feh. 27. Will share expen~es. Contact lrfs. 415 West. at 346-9491. RIDE WANTED to Texas, any convenient date. Will share driving and expenses. Call: 8R7-2848. RIDE WANTED for any weekend to the University of Pennsylvania or the Utiivefsity of New Hampshire. More than happy to share driving and expenses. Call Elizabeth· Dinnel, 116 Davidson, at 370- 6693. . Riders wanted. to A·t,lanta Ga. (Emory University) or somewhere along the way during fhe spring vacation. Call Ken at ~70- 6(>~9. Ride Wanted for any weekend ·to UniversitY of Pennsvlvania (Philadelphia) or University of New Hampshire :(Dtir- ham). More .than willing to share driving and expense<. Please call F li1aheth binnel at :l70-M93. I) RIDE WANTED to Florida· around March :]5th. Will split all costs. Call Linda at 374•6700. or C'andy at 372-0216. RIDE WANTED .to University of Pennwl:vania (.Phila.) Fe'h. 27. Wi.Jl shnre dri~.inl' and ,~xren'e'. Contact Jav at 346- 9973 RIDERS WANTED to Atlanta, GA. fFmorv llilive.r<itv) or somewhere along the w~·\' dmin~ Mnr.ch vacation. ·('pntacj Ken at 370·Mi89. RI·PE WANTED to Sotllhwestern Conn .. We,tcbe<ter or vicinity on Friday. Feh. 27. Contact Roh at C\46'9829. RIDE WANTED to Boston (Milton). Friday the 27th. preferably after 2:~0 p.m. Call Brownellnt 393-5603. FOR SALE FOR SALE: one pair men's fi!!ure skates. <i7e R. (l,ed onlv three times - in excellent condition. Ask for Keith at 34fi-949L ' FOR SALE: Fender twin reverb amp. in perfect condition. Sell for $285 or trade for Randmaster or Ba,~man Top plm cash. Want: Fender. Gibsori'or other bass guitar. Call 4R2-73~4 in the evening. For sale: ,]972 · V.W. Beetle. excellent running condi.tion. 29mpg. best offer. Call Dave at 3'7-2-0418.. · For sale: A. K. C. registered Siberian Husky pups. Beautiful markings. friendly, and sturdy. Have had puppy shots. Call Dave at 393-3346 durill!t .(ate evening. S~i B~ts- Men's sjze s·, Munari's. used. twice. cost $110 new. best ·offer. Call Lew at 377-0172 and help a poor boy go ·to Florida. For Sale: Madeira 6 string guitar.Model .A- 20. only One year old. in perfect condition. Rose wood sides and hack. Natural pine face. With case, extra strings, card. and shoulder strap. Distributed by Guild: Only $130:00. Call Rich at 393-9535. For·sale: Rossignol skis ST-650's: 207 em.: 550's 205. em. Both are in excellent condition. and have Ramv (French) bindings. Reasonably priced.' Call 370- 6608. Before or after .this weekend .. Drums. for sale. Ludwig double 20\ bass, 3 toms. snare. 6 Zildjian cynnhols and all hardware. $500,00. Call Jon at 393-0860 .. FOR SALE: Two pairs of racing, skis: V olkl car.bon, used less than one year, worth $40,. excellent condition; and K2 Competition, $20. Prices .flexible, must sell. Contact Tom at 203 Edwards. · SKIS FOR SALE: Attenhofer-Davos 190 em skis. Excellent condition, must sell. Call 346-9973 and ask for Jim. FOR SALE: Texas Instruments SR-11 -(electronic slide rule calculator). One-year- old. excellent condition: comes with box, adaptor: eharger. carrying c'ase and instruction booklet. $50. Contact Chris Vilardi. 302 McKean at 346-9303. FOR SALE: Pioneer CSR-500 speakers. 3· way I 0\ woofer. I year old. List $169; pair $165. Call Gringo at 346-9272. THANK YOU to the two people who returned fhe check. Nancy Murphey. MOUSE: I'd like to make an appointment to meet you in vour office. Please )!et in touch with my 1ecreta ry. TO THE JOKER selling the Winn Well le,!!~mHd': :if vnu don't cllt out the 'first male child' 'hit I'll -hit you with a phll'lle of locli'ts. I know my 'hit. so watch it the Phnraoh. RICHMOND LADY lookin11 for some warm fun. Fnjov fine food. smoke, candlelil!ht. If ,;ou are tasteful and intelligent. not into hodey or startrek please replv hox oM. MAN WITH SALAD FEtiSH seekin~ companion with nrce tomatoe~. H interc,ted. contact Mr. Beef c/ thi.• paper .• ' ~ I \ 1 1 ~ I 1: ' ~ 1 J i' ! I I I ' ,. \ I I ' I· i

?Q, •tO nd of are 4n- .. 27. on). lent in .for to ,A- 3 all . K2 190 -II 3· pair t in first c of the and trek H \ i \ I ' ~ I i 41 \'i 1 1 ~ ~\ i I i~ ~ 1 t Wrestling by NEAL A. SCHWARTZ Mike Paquette, wrestling at I 6 7 pounds, placed second in his weight class at the N.Y. States last Saturday. This earned Mike a trip to the Natiohals at Coe College in Cedar Rapids, Iowa on March 4, 5, and 6. Union also had three others place among the top ten in that tournament. Jim Sutton at 150 pounds, Josh Salzmann at 177 pounds, and Cliff Farrell at 190 all placed fifth. Last year, Union had tWo matmen place in the states and - this y~ar increased this output to four. ihe Dutchmen also increased thei·r team score over last year in moving from an ll th place berth in 197_5 to the recent 8th place score of 44Y4. Buffalo posted the top team score with 123% points and St. Lawrence was· runner-up with I 06 points. Paquette lost in the finals to Bob Martineck of the University of Buffalo by a 17-4 score. Prior to the finals, Mike won decisions in the first three rounds. Paquette defeated Farchione of St. John Fisher 19-3, Scott Ewing of the University of Rochester 10-2, and Mike Carra of Binghamton ll-5. Jim Sutton won in the first round and then lost in the second to qualify for the loser's bracket. In the determination of places, Jim proceeded to 4 consolation matches in which he posted 3 wins to take fifth. In a•nother complicated round elimination system, Josh Salzmann picked up four mo·re wins against two losses to also post a fifth. Cliff Farrell wh0 weighs 170 pounds, but wrestles at 190, became a fifth in the States as a freshman. Jim Sutton and Josh Salzmann are both sophomores, while Mike Paquette is a Junior. Bruce DeBlois at 118 pounds, Kevin Hallenback at 126, Larry Dagastino at 134, George Redder at 142, and Tom Everett at 158 all took the trip to Oswego to participate in the States. The eighth team in N.Y. State this year, Union College, wound up their regular season with a 12-5 record. Mermen defeated During the past two weeks the Union College swim team saw action against two teams which are top contenders for the NCAA Division Ill title, R.P.I. and Hamilton. Because the Garnet did not have a chance to beat either team, each swimmer attempted to do his best time in order to qualify for the state championships at Colgate in March. The competition was tough and many qualifying times were attained. Against R.P.l. Doug Richardson broke his own school record in the 1000 yd. freestyle and, lO days later, he came from behind at Hamilton to do it again. AI Hertzberg's wins in the 200 individual medley at R. P.I. and the 200 yd. breaststroke at Hamilton Were pleasant surprises. Tom Richardson continued his winning streak by taking the 200 backstroke at R.P.l. and Hamilton. Tom Broderick, corning back from an injury which kept him out. of competition for most of the st: J.son, won the 100 yd. freestyle at Hamilton. Finally, at Hamilton, Jim Lowe equaled the 100 breaststroke time which sent him fo the NCAA championships last year. CONCORDJE'NS!S, Wednesday, Feb. 25, 1976 Union volleyball men anticipate return of the wonder hall. Hockey Show Down: On Thursday evening February 26 at 10:00 p.m. the first annual ice hockey show down will be held at the Achilles Rink. Ice hockey show down consists of competition between a hockey forward and a goalie in a one on one situation. The forward skates in on the goalie and attempts to shoot the puck past him. Each time the forward shoots the puck past the goalie into the net he receives a point. Each time the goalie makes a save he receives a point. The forward ahd the goalie who receives the most points at the conclusion of the show down is the winner. Trophies will be presented to the top point getters. For more information contact Bob Driscoll 370-6119. Badminton: There will be a badminton to-urnament for all students faculty and staff on Saturday February 27th at 1:00 p.m. in the fieldhouse. Entries are due Friday, Feb. 26th in the Intramural Office in Alumni Gym. Indoor Track Meet: An official indoor track meet will be held on Sunday, February 29th at 1:00 p.m. in the fieldhouse. The events that will be run are as follows: (I) Field Events - Long Jump, High Jump, Shot Put; (2) Running Events - Two Mile Relay, 50 Dash Trials, 55 Hurdle Trials, Mile run, 4 lap Relay, 600, 800, 50 Yard Final, 55 Hurdle Final, Mile Relay. Come enter as a team or individually. Entries are due Friday, February 27th in the Intramural Office. Weight Lifting Contest: On Saturday March 6th at 1:00 p.m. in the Alumni Gym there will be a weight lifting contest for all interested students, faculty and staff. fhe weight classes will be as follows: 100-150, 150-175, 175- 200, 200-. Some of the events will be the bench press, press, squat. Entries are due Friday, March 5th in the Intramural Office. Wrist Wrestling Contest: The first annual wrist wrestling contest will be held Wednesday evening March lOth at 7:00 p.m. in the fieidhouse. A contest will be held for both male and female participants. The weight classes will be as follows: 100~150, 150- 175, 175-200, 200-. Entires are due in the Intramural office on Tuesday March 9th. Wrestling Tournament: Enter the Wrestling tournament as soon as possiMe. Entires are due Tuesday, March 1st and competition will begin Wednesday, March 2nd at 7:00 p.m. in the wrestling room. The weight lcasses are as follows: 118, 12~ •. q4, 142, 150, 158, 167, I 77, 190, Heavy. Matches will be five minutes in length, 1-2-2. You may join individually 'or as a team. Fiji has already entered a team. Come on you other Frats, don't let Fiji show you up. Water Safety Instructors Course: All Students who are interested in taking WSI should contact Coach Magee as soon as possible. STATS UNION vs. R.P.I. 400 Medley Relay R.P.I. 1000 Free R.P.I. Boyd 10:59.6 Union D. Richardson I I: 14.7 R.P.I. Behun 12:34.0 200 Free R. P.l. Petrie I :55.3 · R.P.l. Erhardt 1:56.2 Union T. Richardson 2:03.8 50 Free R. P.l. Canavan 23.7 R.P.l. Digeser 23.9 Union Corbett 24.5 200 I.M. Union Hertzberg 2: 15.0 R.P.l. Eliasson 2:16.1 R.P.l. Mcgrath 2:29.8 Diving R.P.l. 140.45 Unon No Entry 200 Fly R. P.l. Chisholm 2:17.8 R.P.I. Boyd 2:21.2 Union No entry 100 Free R.P.l. Wroclawski 51.7 Union D. Richardson 54.8 R.P.l. Digeser 55.5 200 Back Union T. Richardson 2:13.9 R.P.I. K.rok 2:20.5 R.P.I. Canavan 2:22.3 500 Free R.P.l. Ehrhardt 5:29.9 Union Hertzberg 5:42.1 R.P.l Petrie 5:48.2 200 Breast R.P.I. luce 2:23.9 Union Lowe 2:27.9 Union Corbett 2:30.5 Diving No entry . 400 Free Relay R.P.l Trackn1en third WOMEN'S VARSITY LACROSSE MEETING FEBRUARY 26, 1976 TIME: 5 pm by JEFF SCHEININGER In the third annual Marty McDonagh Indoor Track Meet at R.P.l., held Saturday, Plattsburgh State took a commanding first place with 78 points. R.P.L' nosed out Union for second place with 40 points, Union scured 34 points, and St. Lawrence and Hudson Valley each scored ~26 points. Other scores were: Albany State 18, Oswego 10, Buffalo 8, LeMoyne 5, Marist 4, Beinghamton 3, Hartwick 2, and Middlebury l. Herring took fourth place. In the two mile relay, Union took 4th place. Finally, Scheuer took a second place berth in the mile run. In the field events, Dave Ricks took second place in-the pole vaulting with a height of 14 feet. Dave Plumer took fifth in the high jump. The team put in a good showing, however, its ranks were debilitated by the flu. A ·number of Garnet trackmen were unable PLACE: Block U Room Gymnasium WOMEN'S VARSITY SOFTBALL PRACTICE MARCH 8, 1976 - 4 pm - Fieldhouse Come dressed to participate WOMEN'S SUPER STAR COMPETITION MARCH 7, 1976 TIME: 7-10 pm PLACE: Fieldhouse ENTRIES: Six women teams ENTRY DEADLINE: March 5. 1976 Bob Moffat ran an. outstanding 600 yard run, taking first place with a time of I: 14.0, and setting a new meet record. Kevin Scheuer took first place in the 1000 yard run with a time of 2: 17 .0. He too, set a new meet record. The Union mile relay team scored first place, and in the two mile run, Steve Jones took third with a time of Q: 17. 9. In the 50 yard dash, Milt to attend because of ill-health, r------...,...--------. and \others- ~competing in spite of their illne~ses. Any girl interested in forming a women's swim team, come to a meeting at 7:30 on Monday, March 1 in the Block U Room of Alumni Gym. Anyone who did not attend the 1st practice for the Men's Varsity Tennis Team, there will be practice this Saturday, Feb. 28 IN THE Fieldhouse at 9:30 A.M. If unable to attend please contact Steve Marcus (230 West, 346-9590). PaKe 11 Clubmen lose The Volleyball club lost' last Thursday night to a powerful Albany State squad. All,Jany led by top rated player Jaimie McFarland, was too much for Union as they spiked three straight games, 15-3, 15-9, 15-9, passed the Garnet six to win the match. The team travels to Rochester this weekend to participate in a twenty team tournament. Club hockey Playing two games so far this season the Union College Hockey Club rests with a record of I and I. Thanks to the efforts of AI Ritchie and Dave Sanderson the team travelled to Saratoga for its fir~t- gam·e of 1976 on Jan. 23rd. Skidmore College was no match for Union who won 12-L Union dominated the en tire game, but led onlY. 3~0 alter one period. Veteran goalie Don Ward, who is starting his fourth year in the nets, stopped several Skidmore attempts early in the second period which seemed to get Union going. Highlighting the win were AI Ritchie, who supplied a hat-trick,- and Miles Hirson, who collected 4 penalties. The below zero temperatures inside the rink kept Skidmore cold as usual. Another game was scheduled at Saratoga against the Saratoga Senior A Team on Feb. 14. Their semi-pro filled roster was without a doubt the height of competition for the Club Team in 2 years. This rsesulted in 14 pairs of socks being lost. Union never quite got it together and were beaten 20- 1. Union managed 36 shots on goal but this figure is made miniscule by Saratoga's 84 shots. Defenseman Gordon Glidden claims to have blocked that many more. There were some bright spots for Union. Sixty-four saves by the unnamed goalies; Peter Martini's 5-minute fighting penalty, which seemed to get Union going as Saratoga only scored 7 times in the 2nd period; Jerry Kirby's goal which almost caused a total collapse of the Saratoga defense; and Mark Taube's end to end rushes which ended at the red line. It was a good time for all that played. Garnettes split A much impr~ved wo-men's team dropped two last week against Utica and Skidmore. Playing without center, Liz Yager, the Dutchwomen travelled to Utica only to lose by 45-59. However, after having been beaten by Utica earlier in the se1son by a 31 point margin, the women were definitely pleased ' with their performance and team · effort. Donna Sockell popped in 27 points, and Gina Pugheese dropped in 6 big ones during a strong Union rally. Against Skidmore, Union fell 40-52. Union hustled to outscore Skidmore 24-20 in the second half, but with the clock ticking away, Union fell short of its mark. Again team effort and overall improvement in ball handling attributed to the girls great comeback in the second half.

Page 12 CONCORDIENSIS. Wednesday. Feb. 25, 1976 concordy sports -Garnet five .nip ·Engineers in O.T. Every great once in a while, perhaps once, maybe twice a vear, a reporter confronts the awesome responsibility of attempting to convey an accurate accol!lnt of an event past, and in the process finds himself wondering if he can render the task true justice. If the writer, even when diligently employing the most careful, conscientuous and creative manipulation of language that a.biliW 'and copy deadline allow. cah honestly imtill the reader with a true sense of those qualities which made the event witnessed so special. Such an occasion occurred Monday evening when the Union College Basketball squad vovaged to Troy to do hattie wiih the Engineers of Rensselaer for the !20th time. The Dutchmen triumphed, 75-71 in overtime. I am sure a simple retelling of the on-court action would provide sufficient material to enable the reader t,o perceive that it was indeed a thrilling contest. Rut such an account would be terribly lacking. For it would not capture anything of the special intensity. unique to the rivalry of these two small schools fixed somewhere between Irving's Catskills and the Berkshire range and so dramatically revealed last Monday night. One could sense a certain something in th·e air just climbing the two flights of narrow stairs and entering the ti.ny cramped gymnasium at· half-time of the jayvee contest. The stands were already nearly full. Ambling about in search of a seat one saw numerous alumni. parents, friends and students scattered throughout the stands waving programs in gestures of greeting and support. And through the ~econd stama, as tomorrow's var~ity players battled eac.h other in a tremendous see-saw struggle, the people continued to pour in, eagerly anticipating the main event. Bv the time the final huner s~unded, confirming a one point victory upon Union's frosh, the stands had been totally swamped by spectators, save for the seats underneath the visitor's hoop. Rut then, without warning or \signal. the scattered bunches of Onion students, as if summoned by some secret command, suddenly grabbed their coats and marched to those end zone bleachers. augmenting the spirited ('hi Psi contingent already lodged there. And adding icing to the cake. The Sigma Chi Kazoo Band, just prior to the teams' taking of the floor for by BILL HENSON court tdal. Those who sat ·in the wannups, . .raraded in to complete front row of the main bleachers the cast and musicaUy call out could not stretch their legs or else the famed R.P.I. Pep Band. theid be on the court. The peo,ple At tip-off. time 1,500 peeple behind them couldn't either, or had squeezed into the ancient else they would knee someone in gym. They leaned precariously on the back. 'The fans literally the ledge of the circular balcony; enveloped the court, inspiring a like observers at a sensational sense of simultaneous ·· · · Doctor Walker operating at opponent's expense Pucksters cruising towards ECAC !> s The Garnet hockey team kept their winning streak alive with 3 wins over Division II foes at home. The young Dutchmen beat a tough Hamilton team 4-3, cruised by Elmira 5-7., and finished the week by crushing Ithaca 13-2. The Hamilton game was by far the most exciting game seen in weeks at Achilles rink, with Union taking a 2-0 lead into the third period. A Don Marshall tally made it 3-0, and everybody in the house felt the game was all but over. But the Continentals had other ideas. and scored 3 goals to tie the game up. With the fans fearing a choke, and the momentum on Hamilton's side, Mike O'Connell punched in a rebound for what proved to he the game winner with minutes to play. Jim Baxter was tough in the nets, stopping 29 Hamilton shots. The Elmira game was not as close as the score, with the Dutchmen outshooting the by BILL PECK v1s1tors 53-17. Elmira, which is better than it's 1-12-1 Div. II record indicates, unfortunately loses a lot of dose games, and this one was no exception as Union led only by 2 goals into the final minutes. However, Grant Judd scored to make 5-2, and scored his first hat trick of the season as well. Kip Churchill and Skeeter Gazzola also scored for the Dutchmen. Steve Baker stopped 15 shots, but was hardly tested as the Garnet defense bottled up the Elmira attack. Jack Rankin sparked the defense with his excellent play and crunching checks. The Ithaca game was all Union. as the Dutchmen attack got back into gear and scored almost at will. Union scored 3 short handed goals in the first period. with Donny Marshall, Kip Churchill and Kevin Kardos lighting the lamp with a teammate in the penalty box. All three later added second goals. But this night was Grant Judd's. t j ' . f I as he scored 4 goals and added 2 assists as well. Grant blew by the Ithaca defensemen time and again, and was set up nicely by his linemates Churchill and Brad Hinterberger on a couple of those occasions. The pretty passing plays delighted the crowd and dazzled the opponents, and resulted in Union scores more times than not. Jim Baxter was in the nets again for Union, and turned away 18 shots, though most were not of the difficult variety. The win gives Union a 13- 1 Div. II record in their first season, and guarantees the Garnet the best Div. II record in the East. However, it remains to be seen if the Dutchmen will be seeded number 1 for the playoffs, though they should be at least the third seed, Union vs. Elmira .Period 1-Scoring - none Penalties F.lm.ira. Erick-on. interference. 4: 19:' llninn. Judd. Cro's Grant Judd making headway towards yet another goal. checkin)!. !l:24: Union. Kardos. tnppm)!. R:4R: Flmim. Collin<. tripping. 13:31. Period 2-Scorjng - 1 )llnion. Churchill (Judd). :43 power play; 2) Union. Judd (Rankin). 5:1 R. power play; 3) Union. Judd IC'hurchilL Schmal7l. 17:38. Penalties - Flmirn. C'os.mono. Toup;hting. :16: Flmirn. Frick son. holdinl!. 5:07: Union. Thomann. cross checkin!!. 7:15; Hnion. Giallonardo. cross checkin!!. 10:04: Hnion. Rankin. trippinj!. 15:59: Elmira. Covle. holdin11. 1·6:30: Union. Mathewson. interference. 19:40. Period 3-Scoring - 4) Elmira. Collins (Roche. Svkes). : 10 power play: 5) Union. Ga77ola (tma'\isted). 2:28: 6) \E1mira. Kennc<lv (Svkes). 15:49 power play; 7) Hnion. · .lt1dd (Hinterherger. Rankin). 19:409 Hit trick. . Penalties - I Inion. Wri!!hl. slashin!!. 7:24: Flmira. Griffith~. elhowin)!. 10:20: Union. Kaminski. e·lhowin!!. 15:02. Union: shots 15. 17. 26. total 511: Saves 5. 4. 6. total 15. Baker. Elmira: shot< 5. 4. R. total 17: Saves 15. 14. 24. total 53. C'osmono. Union vs. Ithaca Perod 1-Scoring - 1l !.Inion. Mnrshall IOTonnell), 5:24 short hanqed: 2) Ithaca. Whitt' II' (Thompson. Rovd). 6:17: 3) Ifni on. .Ten kins. (Marshall). 12:13: 4) lfnion. Kardo' IGiallnnardo. Wright). n·IR short handed: 51 I 1 nion. Churchill C.Judd). 14: Ill short .handed. Penalties - Vnion. Giallonardo. holding. 4: IS: lf.nion. Matthewson. interference. 12:~0: Ithaca, Rnvd. interference. 17:4R. Period 2-Scoring - til llnion. .Judd IC'httrchi.ll. Hinterhei')!er), :25: 7) I Inion. .Jenkins (Marshall. O'Connell). l: I 0: Rl Pnion .. Knrdo' IGanola. Wrij!ht). 2.02: 9) (Inion. Judd (Kardos. J{amilton). 12:02: 10) (Inion. Marshall (Judd. Rankin). 19:4R. Penalties - llnion. Ganola. chargir\~Z. 1>:4~: Ithaca. Whitelv, ttiprinJ!. 7·08: Ithaca. C'nnna·l. ern\ l'heckin!!. 9·~1'>. lthnrn lack,nn. rro\ l·heckin)!. 12·2~: Ithaca. Fatnn. hiph 'ticking. l9·56. l.lnit~n. O'Cnnndl. high -ticking. 19·51l. Period 3-ScQring - II I !Inion. Thomann lfla~le\. Si,Jer). 12 2.~: 121 t:ninn. Chun;hill. ({ 'n,J\i'tcdlc I~ 54: Jl I llninn. lucid iCI\urchill. Flintcrherger). 1.1:12. hat trick: 14) lthac:l. Fat~>n. (Howell. Rirmin)!h~ml. 14:04: 151 !Inion. Jt1dd r·Raplc\'. Ran kinl. 15:44 rower pav. Penalties llnion. (iiallnnnrdn. interference. 54: (Inion . .Jenkins. trippin!!. R·07, lthata. Henrv. elhnwinf!. 14·lA: l'ninn. O'Connell. hil!h st\ickin)!. 1\1:30: tlnir>n. Mathewson. cross check in!!. 18:59 . Union: shots 15. 21. 14. total 50: Saves 3. 9. o. total 1 R. Baxter. Ithaca: shots 4. 9. 7. tot:ll 20: Saves 11. 16. 10. lora! :n. Mnuradian·llom. and intimacy singular . to antiquated field of battle .. . The Garne · this Union surging to a quick twelve point lead. Joel Fisher swoops down on rebound after rebound. Oenio and Borgese, like stubborn flies. ceaseless.ly pester opposing ballhand,Jers. llnion maintains its margin. Pete Meola driving and penetrating for tough inside hoops. Larry McElroy leads R.P.I. to a · twelve-four o~1tburst. Scanlon pounds the floor in frustration. Union only up three at the half. Garnet open a five point lead. Denio all over the count. sticking, jumping and hounding on defense, Engi.neers come hack. McElroy hits a shot to give R.P.l. their fits! ·lead, 42-41. Kellv finds the range for •two buckets. Denio cans another,. Lead hack to five. Engineer. hoop. Dutchmen maintain three point margin until final minutes. Scanlon timeout. U11i01~ swings into four corner stall. Denio fat two. Looks good. But McDonnell gets three point play. Only two. 40 seconds. Ref. · signals travelling on Union. Fans go nuts. Borgese blocks Vieth jumper, ·Walker grabs the 'bound. Scanlon timeout again. McElroy ties op Kelly pn in bounds pass. R.PJ. wins tap. McElroy for , two with 14 seconds. Denio dribbles downcourt, Scanlon yelling for tirne doesn'thearhimwhistle s h o o t s f r o mt we n t y - fiveswishgoodnogood Kellycalledtime. Spectators in uproar. Tie game. Union shot no good .. Ov~rt1me. Geese hits a driving layup. John follows with short jumper. Union stall. R. P.I. pressing all over. No mistakes. Foul. Kelly ices it with two free throws. Union by four. What a game! In other action this past week the Garnet, behind the scoring of big men· Kelly, Walker and Meola devastated one of New England's finest, Trinity College, lQ4-79. Uhion breaking the century barrier for the only time this year. Saturday evening the Dutchmen survived lethargic play and anticipation of R.P.l. to defeat .Cortland State 64-57. Earlier · tonight the varsity hoopers squared off against Binghamton in the Memorial Fieldhouse. STATS UNION 75-RPI 71 overtime Union FG Fl Denio 9 4-4 Fisher 4 2-3 Kelly 5 5-6 Borgese 2 0-1 Dr. Walker 3 2-3 Meola 5 0-0 Symonette 3 ·0-0 31 13~17 kPI FG FT McElroy, L. 10 2-2 McDonnell 8 1-2 Kubiak I 0-0 Veith 3 0-0 Mansell I 0-0 Lausch 3 l!-2 Mehalick 6 2-2 32 7-9 Thru 21 games Name , K. Churchill G. Judd Mark Jenkins Don Marshall B. Hinterberger M. Giallonardo K. Kardos M. O'Connell G Ass'ts 22 35 26 23 15 25 19 21 12 20 s 25 15 12 11 15 TP 22 IO l5 4 8 lO 6 75 TP 22 17 2 6 2 8 14 71 Pts 57 49 40 40 32 30 27 26 . . r .'i. f t I ' f I ( t l (

to you only it law. this be we all will It by like an In may f . ~ \ The B:lack Student~s Alliance Newspaper. Vol. 4, ~o. 6 February 25, 1976 - ~£biiiiii!!lli.il''''iiiili.!!li!ililllld!t\'\\'\'~'!!ill.!i!iDIIII!Ii!II~QMiilii!lllljj.;B\'Iiiilljlii\\lliil!iib••'ll!lill'lmt£f''11'''fll~lliilllllli-· ·- ~ ~- _,......,... . ·---- ------ . ~-- -· _--~~ ---~ ----. --~- --~-- =~ - .,.__=--- .. -- ,--------:::,.~~\'\\'\\\''~'\\\\'''\~-~'111'1\\\~- .--.:\\\\'~ Ellitorial Prerogative. A ·New Face S~s Union Senior year ~ I knew what I wanted; I knew. what the future held; I had known since I was a sophomore in high school; I knew I was going to attend college. College was my long (?) term goal. There was no \if~and-buts\ about the matter. I had no need to have any doubts about my intentions after high school was completed. I'm in college now; I've gotten to the first step of my goal but here it comes - this feeling, this mental anguish which · comes over me periodically since I was sixteen years. (It was 1973 and I thought this \gut\ sensation was over.) It all started in 1971. I was possessed with this obsession to find something; to find what I'm looking for. But what it is is still unknown. I was searching for something with no.· · reference or goal. Crazy??? It's now 1976 and this feeling still arouses depression in me _- each time it comes over me like the spirit of Satan. I've started structuring my life after college. What's next? This isn't the answer. I have other long range goals - graduate school, a well-paying job, a (healthy) family, etc.; all the normal feminine goals. And you know, I perceive all of them obtainable. Besides that I know what they are, so finding or searching for them is so simple. But this feeling - here it comes again! \I'm searching for something but I don't know what it is.\ Could it be life, • liberty and the pursuit of happiness? I really couldn't say. Maybe you have some reasonable, free advice. Could it be ·tender loving care? Could it be his understanding, consideration or love? Could it be a piece of the pie - some of YOUR economic security? Could it be a mental sanction? Could it be a time-machine to re-live the days gone by? But this feeling - here it comes again!! Maybe I've been approaching this dilemma from the wrong perspective. If I could decide why I feel this THING instead of what this THING is: · Because of the oppression you instill on me and my people; because of your desire to strip me of culture and identity; because I have not gotten my 40 acres and mule after 256 years; because of family disturbances; because HE hurt me; because he's given his love to another; because of physical disabilities; because of poor grades. I really couldn't say! Maybe your experiences can help me find out why and what I'm searching for, not knowing what. and why it is. Because WE can't talk about it; because of personality conflicts; because of YOUR ability to conquer and divide US. But this feeling - here it comes againp It's like being in the deepest, darkest pit in hell looking for a glass of ice water (or a match). Friday evening, February 19, a Mr. Garrison: ... Martin Luther group of B.S.A. members had an King, Malcolm X, Stokley informal discussion with a new Carmichael, and H. Rap Brown visiting face on campus. It was were philosophers•and in addition conducted very well away from to being political activist and the structured atmosphere of the social reformist, Dr. King had his Union College classroom. Ph.D. in philosophy- were you George Garrison is a graduate ,aware of that plus having a student at the University of theology degree and it wasn't by Buffalo receiving his Ph.D. in accident that the particular philosophy. He is one of three philosophy he had in the civil candidates the Philosophy rights movement was non-violent Department is interviewing as a and passive resistance ... But the replacement for Prof. Ludwig whole thing that lead him to the who will be going on sabbatical civil rights movement was that next school year. Naturally, my type of philosophy where it had interest was stirred when I found more meaning for Blacks out he was Black. (oppressed people) when it When J. entered \the group,\ a became a sort of guide or couple of minutes after the direction that lead them out of conversation among the B.S.A. the oppressed situation. Part of members and Mr. Garrison the reason Blacks don't go into began, everyone's attention was philosophy is because it seems to captivated. It appeared to be a· have no meaning for them. Our student-interview of a prospective basic problems are food clothing employer of Union but I wonder and :shelter. What do Black will _our conversation with Mr. people care about beauty? What Garnson be beneficial in brioging do they care about, what more Black faculty to Union knowledge is? It's a very abstract C~llege? thing we've been relating to but . there are other dimensions of philosophy in which I am interested: the social,. moral, and political aspects. Student: What brought you to Union? Garrison: I am a member of the American Philosophical Association of Students. They produce a pamphlet at the end of each year in the supplement Union had a job listing, as well as many other i nst it uti on s throughout the United States and Canada. I apply in last November for the position. 1 had an interview among about 25 others in NYC in December from which three choices were selected to come to Union. Student: Can y.ou expand on the social and political aspects of philosophy? What trends? Garrison: One should not take philosophy just for the. sake of studying; just to please yourself; it should lead one out to the rest of humanity, society I am interested in it because, it has a way of asking questions about life - conditions in which you find yourself - 'it suggests possible answers to these questions. You see the social connotations? Student: How do you view the American society? Garrison: I would describe it as a cultural-pluralism; in the sense that it's something unique and distinct, something intrinsically good about the Black experience -about the experiences of all the different types of cultures within our country ... Student: What courses would you teach at Union? Garrison: I would probably have to teach introductory philosophy but I could offer students courses in other areas in philosophy - ci vii disobedience, conflicts in ideologies, or one dealing with the ideology of the Head of State in Ghana in comparison to the culturalism in ghettoes tn America. There was more discussion on the concept of cultural-pluralism Continued on Pace C . . . So I continue to search in vain? No, reader, I believe that there is a solution to every problem though one may not know the answer. And there is an answer and my determination leads me to see a peek of it just around Union's corner. ·\. Current Events International-• Black Politics As editor of Perspective, I would like to inform the college community of certain aspects of the Black students' world at Union College. One specific (and notable) aspect is direct racist attitudes and discrimination in its most sophisticated form. To this day, Kappa Alpha has denied responsibility for such an overt action. I put the responsibility on no one because all the Black students on campus are as much in the dark as the victim. But there will be a deep, intense investigation by campus, local, state and federal personnel on the mattt'r. Whoever is responsible for the letter will be prosecuted to the fullest extent of the law. Joe Johnson is only a freshmen, it looks like he will go through 3 more years of HELL! S o fo r y o u r rea d i n g \enjoyment .. (?), please carefully look at the following two paragraphs. course. Moreover, if you confront us with this letter, we will be forced to deny writing it. Yet, we are sure this will not be necessary (sic). It is in the best interest of all concerned that this matter remain confidential between us. Again, we wish you continued success and a rewarding college experience. We harbor no ill will and hope the feeling is mutual. We, the Brothers of· Kappa Alpha, feel a deep sense of camaraderie with our black brothers. However, we wish to maintain our status as an inter- racial fraternity. We do not want Kappa Alpha to deteriorate into another B.S.A. Consequently, although we encourage Anthony Coles to pledge Kappa Alpha, we would like to limit this pledge Growing up in an equally class to one black brother. distributed environment of Blacks Understand, we have nothing ·and whites, surprisingly, I have against you personally. We are never experienced true racism. only protecting the interefts. of However, upon entering Union Kappa Alpha. College, the second day I saw Since tllis decision has not gone Hickok smeared with paint. The through .normal house channels, word \nigger\ written across the and in fact has been mage pillars. I thought it may have without the knowledge of many been just the work of one or two brothers of the Kappa Alpha, it simple-minded individuals. Living does not carry the force of law. down campus I became We will not stop you from a(:quainted with many whites of pledging if you insist upon this Coatinued ·~ P1~ C . The United States is at it again; fighting for freedom and to stamp out communism. Everyone wants to know will it be another Vietnam in Angola (Africa). Will the international policy consist of the United States sending funds, man-power and weapons to another country of \people-of- colour\ with the civilians totally against interference'? It seems ironic that the United States wants desperately to help those Africans when she is attempting to kill her own Africaq civilians. What is the United States \plot\? Angola is the number one source of Gulf Oil Company success. Angola (as well as most of Africa) is. plentiful in rich natural resources. Back in the '60's, the United States supported and .supplied weapons to the Portuguese for their attempts to stop Angola from becoming independent. How could she make a sudden change? ''Saying one thing and doing another,\ is the answer. The United States administration \views\ the situation by helping Portugal defeat the Popular Movement for the Liberation of Angola (MPLA) and gaining economic access to the land and resources of Angola without recognizing that they could pay the independent nation of Angola royalties for the oil. Is the United States in that much need for oil whereby she must become a homicidal maniac? Congress has learned its lesson from the Vietnam conflict; they voted 54 to 22 to cut off aid with a non-interference policy. Yet and still, it seems the United States with Ford and Kissinger (?) at its helm continue to give tremendous amounts of money and other support.

to you only gone it law. from this front be we ssary of all rna in gain, !lege I will It n by , like by an s? In may acks! the for next l told me, for . on. This the a set. a I is wrong, that the tax funds possible .. ~ . l letter no with evaluation integrity The Black Student's Alliance Newspaper Vol. 4, No. 6 February 25, 1976 .f\'\''\''4¢'\\'''''\''~'''\''iii'W~'''''''''i§'i~'\''''\'''~'\'\'\!\2~1ilN'''''\'~\'''\'\N$Wmiiiim1@~ta)jjjjjjjjjjjjjj@$®\'''''''''11. Eaitorial Prerogative Senior year - I knew what I wanted; I knew what the future held; I had known since I was a sophomore in high school; I knew I was going to attend college. College was my long (?) term goal. There was no \if-and-buts\ about the matter. I had no need to have any doubts about my intentions after high school was completed . I'm in college now; I've gotten to the first step of my goal but here it comes - this feeling, this mental anguish which comes over me periodically since I was sixteen years. (It was 1973 and I thought this \gut\ sensation was over.) It all started in 1971. I was possessed with this obsession to find something; to find what I'm looking for. But what it is is still unknown. I was searching for something with no reference or goal. Crazy??? It's now 1976 and this feeling still arouses depression in me --each time it comes over me like the spirit of Satan. I've started structuring my life after college. What's next? This isn't the answer. I have other long range goals - graduate school, a well-paying job, a (healthy) family, etc.; all the normal feminine goals. And you know, I perceive all of them obtainable. Besides that I know what they are, so finding or searching for them is so simple. But this feeling - here it comes again! \I'm searching for something but 1 don't know what it is.\ Could it be life, liberty and the pursuit of happiness? I really couldn't say. Maybe you have some reasonable, free advice. Could it be tender loving care? Could it be his understanding, consideration or love? Could it be a piece of the pie - some of YOUR economic security? Could it be a mental sanction? Could it be a time-machine to re-live the days gone by? But this feeling - here it comes again!! Maybe I've been approaching this dilemma from the wrong perspective. If I could decide why I feel this THING instead of what this THING is: Because of the oppression you instill on me and my people; because of your desire to strip me of culture and identity: because I have not gotten my 40 acres and mule after 256 years; because of family disturbances; because HE hurt me; because he's given his love to another; because of physical disabilities; because of poor grades. I really couldn't say! Maybe your experiences can help me find out why and what I'm searching for, not knowing what and why it is. Because WE can't talk about it: because of personality conflicts; because of YOUR ability to conquer and divide US. But this feeling- here it comes again!! It's like being in the deepest, darkest pit in hell looking for a glass of ice water (or a match). So I continue to search in vain? No, reader, I believe that there is a solution to every problem though one may not know the answer. And there is an answer and my determination leads me to see a peek of it just around Union's corner. '\. As editor of Perspective, would like to inform the college community of certain aspects of the Black students' world at Union College. One specific (and notable) aspect is direct racist attitudes and discrimination in its most sophisticated form. Current Events look at the following tw0 paragraphs. We, the Brothers of Kappa Alpha, feel a deep sense of camaraderie with our black brothers. However, we wish to maintain our status as an inter- A New Friday evening, February 19, a group of B.S.A. members had an informal discussion with a new visiting face on campus. It was conducted very well away from the structured atmosphere of the Union College classroom. George Garrison is a graduate student at the University of Buffalo receiving his Ph.D. in philosophy. He is one of three ;::andidates the Philosophy Department is interviewing as a replacement for Prof. Ludwig who will be going on sabbatical next school year. Naturally, my interest was stirred when I found out he was Black. When ~ entered \the group,\ a couple of minutes after the conversation among the B.S.A. members and Mr. Garrison began, everyone's attention was captivated. It appeared to be a· student-interview of a prospective employer of Union but I wonder will our conversation with Mr. Garrison be beneficial in briuging more Black faculty to Union College? course. Moreover, if you confront us with this letter, we will be forced to deny writing it. Yet, we are sure this will not be necessary (sic). It is in the best interest of all concerned that this matter remain confidential between us. Again, we wish you continued success and a rewarding college experience. We harbor no ill will and hope the feeling is mutual. To this day, Kappa Alpha has denied responsibility for such an overt action. I put the responsibility on no one because all the Black students on campus are as much in the dark as the victim. But there will be a deep, intense investigation by campus, local, state and federal personnel on the matter. Whoever is responsible for the letter will be prosecuted to the fullest extent of the law. racial fraternity. We do not want Kappa Alpha to deteriorate into another B.S.A. Consequently, although we encourage Anthony Coles to pledge Kappa Alpha, we would like to limit this pledge Growing up in an equally class to one black brother. distributed environment of Blacks Understand, we have nothing ·and whites, surprisingly, I have against you personally. We are never experienced true racism. only protecting the interests of However, upon entering Union Kappa Alpha. College, the second day I saw Since this decision has not gone Hickok smeared with paint. The through normal house channels, word \nigger\ written across the and in fact has been made pillars. I thought it may have without the knowledge of many been just the work of one or two brothers of the Kappa Alpha, it simple-minded individuals. Living does not carry the force of law. down campus I became We will not stop you from acquainted with many whites of pledging if you insist upon this Continued on Pa•e C Joe Johnson is only a freshmen, it looks like he will go through 3 more years of HELL! So for your reading \enjoyment\ (?), please carefully Face S~es Union Mr. Garrison: ... Martin Luther King, Malcolm X, Stokley Carmichael, and H. Rap Brown were philosophers•and in addition to being political activist and social reformist, Dr. King had his Ph.D. in philosophy -- were you ,aware of that plus having a theology degree and it wasn't by accident that the particular philosophy he had in the civil rights movement was non-violent and passive resistance ... But the whole thing that lead him to the civil rights movement was that type of philosophy where it had more meaning for Blacks (oppressed people) when it became a ~ort of guide or direction that lead them out of the oppressed situation. Part of the reason Blacks don't go into philosophy is becau<;e it seems to have no meaning for them. Our basic problems are food. clothing and shelter. What do Black people care about beauty? What do they care about, what knowledge is? It's a very abstract thing we've been relating to but there are other dimensions of philosophy in which I am interested: the ~m:ial. moral, and political aspects. Student: What brought you to Union? Garrison: I am a member of the American Philosophical Association of Students. They produce a pamphlet at the end of each year in the supplement Union had a job listing, as well as many other institutions throughout the United States and Canada. I apply in last November for the position. I had an interview among about 25 others in NYC in December from which three choices were selected to come to Union. Student: Can y.ou expand on the social and political aspects of philosophy? What trends'? Garrison: One should not take philosophy just for the. sake of studying; just to please yourself; it should lead one out to the rest of humanity, society I am interested in it because, it has a way of asking questions about life -- conditions in which you find yourself - 'it suggests possible answers to these questions. You see the social connotations? Student: How do you view the American society? Garrison: I would describe it as a cultural-pluralism; in the sense that it's something unique and distinct, something intrinsically good about the Black experience -- about the experiences of all the different types of cultures within our country ... Student: What courses would you teach at Union'? Garrison: I would probably have to teach introductory philosophy but I could offer students courses in other areas in philosophy civil disobedience, conflicts in ideologies, or one dealing with the ideology of the Head of State in Ghana in comparison to the culturalism in ghettoes tn America. There was more discussion on the concept of cultural-pluralism Continued on Pa•e C International-• Black Politics The United States is at it again; fighting for freedom and to stamp out communism. Everyone wants to know will it be another Vietnam in Angola (Africa). Will the international policy consist of the United States sending funds, man-power and weapons to another country of \people-of- colour\ with the civilians totally against interference'? It seems ironic that the United States wants desperately to help those Africans when she is attempting to kill her own African civilians. What is the United States \plot\'? Angola is the number one source of Gulf Oil Company success. Angola (as well as most of Africa) is plentiful in rich natural resources. Back in the '60's, the United States supported and supplied weapons to the Portuguese for their attempts to stop Angola from becoming independent. How could she make a sudden change'? \Saying one thing and doing another,\ is the answer. The United States administration \views\ the situation by helping Portugal defeat the Popular Movement for the Liberation of Angola (MPLA) and gaining economic access to the land and resources of Angola without recognizing that they could pay the independent nation of Angola royalties for the oil. Is the ll nited States in that much need for oil whereby she must become a homicidal maniac? Congress has learned its lesson from the Vietnam conflict; they voted 54 to 22 to cut off aid with a non-interference policy. Yet and still, it seems the United States with Ford and K issingcr ('!) at its helm continue to give tremendous amounts of money and other support.

PERSPEC17VE, Wednesd,ay, Feb. 25, 1976 \\\ fashionable to be outspoken; to L. e· tter to the -vdt*tor· . be leftist, or militant so to speak . . . ' • . . ' . . m· . This is what was called \Radical F b 13 197.6 on this level. and othe.rs. You can ~ Chic,\ which however, no longer e ruary • ~ exists at this point in time. That Dear Sister.s and Brothers, and have fitted into the main WHO WEARE? means today it will not be as easy As someone who has. recently stream of American success Editor-in-chief ......................... ; ............... Gail Chatman to motivate people as it once was, become interested in the problems whereas we;. \multi-pigmentated\ • ~ Ph t h Ed't B. 'II C 11 . q ~ because followers will no longer of nationality and ethnicity, par- people won't be allowed. Our • 0 ograp Y 1 or..................................... 1 o Jns tt'cu·I I · t~.. · f struggle in Amert'ca can be be in style. Many of those people ... ar y m lie SY,ppresswn o Bobby Davis. who became politically active minority cultures, I found the compared with Indians or Puerto Black History Consultant ...................... .Sadama Homs were good followers. By a good recent issue of Perspective very Ricans. It seems that ricb Jews ~ ~ ,Recognition ....................... Gloria Jones, Sisterly Love, ~ ~> follawer, 1 mean a person who interesting. I tend to ag!'ee with. ,control schools like Union and The Black Journal of Poetry, Marilyn Becton, joins an organization as a group, the analysis 'that American white help our oppressed state by D b B 'll' J J h and has no. argument about who, society has tended to oppress the ignoring our existence except e s 1 mgs, oe o nson, Nathea Cousar,· Bl k 1 · h t·h · k ~ ~ hovi, or why the group is run, · ac cu ture m an attempt to w en · ey can ma e more money Aseba Harris, Essence Magazine, Tamara, regardless of her I his ideas. When keep the Black people in a state of from us. Daniel Soyer, and Phyllis James an organization is full of good confusion about their identity Another great difference is the Special Recognition ......... The. Philosophy Department, followers who do not speak their (thus 'preventing them from way in which we became Prof. Pilcher, to my selfwd-etermination, ~ minds, who aren't willing to presenting a threat to the status Americans. You were oppressed 'b h · II II quo) by WASPS in your history as BLACK unity, Prof. Walbek and. ·the contn ute p ys1ca • y as we· as · mentally; and who can't think However, I must take issue well as usbutwe had no choice in P.rumises. •••••• - Just the other day I realized B.S.A. Social Committee clearly enough to separate their with the statement in \The coming to America as did YOU ...,. \\ \\\ .&.. business from their idiosyncracies, Identity Crisis\ that \The when you migrated from . ..,. ~. then that or.ganization begins to American Black is the only ethnic Germany. It was not by choice, it Dear Ms. Chatman, . function for a select few. It's very group. -.Willing to eliminate or was my enemy's chotec. Lately there has been much Bl k 1 · . easy to ·g0 along with a maJ·ority submerge his culture ' ac peop e do recognize the discussion by the Black students · · 'b·r· f of good followers. As a matter of consistently,\ {page C) This is posst.t tty o Jews being ott the attitudes, misconceptions, · 1 d b f' fact, the temptation is s1mpy not true (unfo.ttunately). oppresse ut we ca_. not tght and the unknowing perpetuation h 1 . . . All · 't d · · the-allies of. our. oppr.·.essor. 0 f t he s e at t .j t u des a n d overw e mmg smce everythmg · mmon y an tmm~grant seems to run so well under the groups in the United States come You spoke of religion in your misconceptions by the people. 1 Let us focus our attention a conditi0ns. It isn't until after an under tremendous pressure to · etter to Perspective, Black people r organization seems to function give up their own cultures and were stripped of even that. We tttle more shar,ply on the idea of l f h r h h . . 'd t't' d d h f h have ho social outlet t·hat :has attitude. It is apparent from on Y or t e 1ew t at t e maJonty 1 en 1 1es an· a opt t ose o t e everyday conversation that there of the people become dominant WASP society. been retained or restore<! since we are a number of different d!scontented, and usually, As an illustration I will use the put our ball-n-chain on the shores attitudes which exist. The ones, dts~ontented . amo.ng themselves. situation of the Jewish people, of this country. which most of us are concerned Thts u~ually. bnngs about a since this is one I know most I fee:! that the two cannot with lately are the bad attitudes. change m 1 attlt~d~, a. chan~e for about. Most American Jews are become .I whe~n they are Mme and more people are the worse. Th1s m tts:lf ts one descendents of members of the opposites. Do not view. my becoming aware of bad attitudes, ca~se for the perpetuatiOn of bad Eastern European (Ashkenazic) opjnion as separatist-act but as a and more importantly, their attlt~des: . . . Jewish c,ommunity. This reausuc movement. Once Blacks perpetuation. It is my feeling, that ~t th1s _pomt, the o_nly _thm_g community developed over about nave asserted themselves to your the majority of these people whtch can Improve the sttuatlon IS 1,000 years into a people separate \quickly-obtained\ status in would like to work positively and a 360 clegree turn around brought from those among whom they America, we may be able to join improve the existing situation. about . by the sum . of the lived. Their culture was not forces. Our enemies are not the The only problem with this is that potel_lttally enormous mental a~d simply an extension of the Jewish same. I see them as related - they feel in some way inhibited or physical energy that has been m religion (Judaism), although cousins. that what they have to say is storage for ~ 0 long . among the religion was an important factor. 3 somewhat insignificant. people.. Don t lay bac~ when There was a very rich secular Dear Editor: At one time it was considered some~ht;tg that _aff~cts ?r mterests Jewish culture; expressed through you 1sn t· funct10nmg m the Way the Yiddish language. This people you would like to see it. In survived despite many (often stagnant or stale? Of course you don't have to answer these questions; you could always cop the ••fifth.\ Don't answer... be evasive.,if you wish. It follows to reason that the next question to be answered would be what do you have to hide? Aseba B. Harris - (and above all) for being yourself.. ........ If you're reading this I know that probably your face is flushed, ' but smile ... it will match well with your ••soul\ shirt. essence - MAKE WAVES. violent) attempts to liquidate it. The potential is here within This great heritage has not every one of us: If you believe fared well in America. From the enough in yourself to say you are moment they stepp~d off the capable of graduating from this boat, ttie immigrants were subject racist, predominantly white to tremendous pressure to institution, you've get to have assimilate. This was even more more on the cap than any white true .of the immigrants' children student here, because you are who were taught in the schools, going through nondescript through the media, etc. to hate changes that \they\ will never be their own heritage and language abl~ to see, an? you wlll never be a:nd to embrace the dominant able to explam to \them no WASP culture. \Union YOU DON'T KNOW '\'HATCHA GOT TILL ITS GONE ..... \ they let the dreamer go and oh, Lord I wonder what monster will fill his vacant seat ..... matter how poor, how liberal, or ' What we are left with is an how radical \they\ are. American Jewish community Ro!Jert D.avis without roots, without a real !2~5mim!!'iiim5ma55mim5i'iiiimmil:i5mtDiaamimmmimm::rm5a:m5miii'iriii'itiama~5~ identity. Most Jews today are Deur Sisterly Love, Dear Deprived, Dear Curious, completely estranged from Jewish that the promises and concerns of the 60's were somehow misplaced in the files of red-tape, apathy, and deception. Some of the promises were apparently scribbled down on toilet tissue and properly disposed as waste. The concerns have entered the realms of trivia and pettiness. The real issues have become obscured. Whatever happened to righteous, everything today tends to be \just fair play.\ An answer to these questions are needed. Naturally, I wouldn't want to exclude anyone from this frame of questioning ... so Union what 'cha' have to say? I'm not accusing you of false promises and pretend concerns ... I just want to know what you have to say. Can you point out where you have followed through on your promises ... can you still say that you are \sincerely\ concerned? Are you familiar with the issues? Mr. Magician, name the magic you have dazzled your audience with and who have benefited from such ... or do you just have tricks up your sleeves? Mr. Sportsmaker, name the game you have played that has produced overall positive results for your spectators and participants ... or do you cheat on the game you have provided for us to be familiar with. Mr. Intellectual, name the recipe for versatility which has stimulated or broadened one's awareness... or do you provide a recipe that is It fills my eyes with tears, and all I can do is shake nlif head ••. they conducted funeral · se'rvices for a man that isn't dead. They haven't yet thrown the last bit of dirt on his grave, for bei~g noble they are allowing his frame to roam within the boundaries of the political science department as Exhibit A - in the removal of the \un-colas.\ Dreamers are the \un-colas.\ They bubble and fizz a different tune. They offer a change of pace and a new and refreshing taste to life. Yet, regardless of what the dFeamer has to offer, he is undesirable in the Kingdom of Union College. He is classified as an alien ., . he does not conform with the way things are ~ although the way things are need to be changed or improved. He is supposed to be- a professar .... not a teacher, or a . friend, or a human-being. He is sueposed to be the product of X and Y; he is not to· be an individuaL And, above all, he is not to be a dreamer.· But he is a dreamer. And because of his dreams he has enlightened many, guided many and helped many. I am among that many. I want to thank-you Norman Walbeck .... Why is it that certain white Next time you go home, Could be...... traditions. Others are simply folks speak to you when they bring the Black Arts with you, I) he's been eating at West religious (which the ethnic are alone, but don't speak to 'cause Union ain't givin up College again, majority can accept since it ·you when they are among nothing. Waiting for Union is 2) his pick is broken, or matters little whether one goes. to those of their race? This has like waiting for the Second- 3) his mouth has been where it pray on Saturday instead of Sun- happened to me on several Coming. shouldn~t have been. day as long l!.S you're the same occasions. My advice to you is not to use 1 . the rest of the week) or Zionist Signed, Dear Sisterly Love, h' Don't Understand I am a Black male student IS tooth-brush. (which is also ok since it diverts and I have noticed a certain Jewish energies away from Dear Don't Understand, The answer is so transparent you must have on dark glasses. These people don't want to lose their reputation by seeming human. And besides, what's your problem?! Why do you 1et it bother you, didn't your mama tell you it would be like that anyways. .Dear Sisterly Love, Hey, boogying down 2nd Street checking out the Museum of African Art, grooving with the D.C. Black Repertory Co., and bumming a ride out to the Capitol Center is my kind of style. It's not that I mind the slow pace of Schenectady, but to see a Black artist work is a joy. \It is the sunshine of my life.\ Hey, I am telling you that it must be the dark ages here, because ain't no sunshine coming through. Of all the well-known Black expressions of art available to this school they have yet to implement any. What could be done to make an alien feel more at home? Signed, Deprived white \male\ giving me; \the national. problems and ethnic funny eyes.\ I noticed hitn in FOOD FOR THOUGHT: identity here to those of the the Skellar with his legs Check it out! Israeli Jewish community). This is crossed and his wrist limp. He obviously a simplistic treatment Someday I hope to go out f th bl d · 'd f\' uses his eyes quite a bit in o e pro em an 1ts s1 e e 1ects, into the \working world\ b t \t h conversations with other men. u 1 serves t e purpose. I have noticed that this is a without fear or anxiety of The chief ••side effect\ of both being discriminated upon on th Bl k d J · h 1 characteristic in most women. e ac an ewts peop e the basis of my race - Black, 'd t'f · · h h · ••It\- accidently brushes my 1 en 1 ymg more w1t t eu behind and on numerous or my sex - female. oppressor's culture than with their occasions offers me rides. How So you see, white women of own is that it drives a wedge America, you only have one b t th Ul · 1· can I get him to leave me e ween em. timate y we are along without using· violence? ~trike against you. I must figbt in the same boat, our enemies are Signed, two battles in one. The the same {witness the anti-Black Straight mruggle .for success, identity, a policies of the .American Nazi Dear Straight, Seems like you've been checking him out but I'll give you the benefit of the doubt. So, you best knock that m.f. upside his head, and tell him ••faggie, ·Leave Me Alone!\ If you don~t. don,t let me catch you wearing a patch on the back of your jeans. Dear Sisterly Love, My room-mate is a very out~ going person. He's alway visiting young ladies. Just the other morning, I noticed that he had hair in his tooth-brush. Why is that? Signed, Curious purpose, and a good life will Party and the anti-semitism of the be twice as hard and the KKK). If ethnic minorities are to competition gets greate.- each gain any degree of cultural day· autonomy in America, or even A Strong Black Woman j • have their rights .as minorities ____________ __.i recognized; we must fight ~·'·'' ~ Sla~ming doors and spitting is humorous to me; grow-up, child! Until your development has come about I will excuse your ignorance. together. IN UNITY IS STRENGTH! In Solidarity, Daniel Soyer Response to the letter To make a long story short, to briefly react to this letter, I would just rertfind everyone of the greatest differences in the \struggle\ of Jewish Ametican as opposed to the Black American Struggle. The socio·economic status af Black America is totally different from that of Jews in America. We fall Way below you - for showing me the beauty of peace - for sighing or smiling with an impulse of a natural emotion - for listening ~ for opening up new areas of inquiry - for caring. Respectfully An A.O.P. Student Perspective response to the letter: I know that 'the A.O.P. students and other (Black) students who are not on the program, love you and want you to continue to guide us to further knowledge but at the same time we do not want to distort reality. Welcome back Sadama! & HOME. Thanks a million, Gloria, for getting the supplies. r t j J

ss be by he ed as in it he ur as ot re a Ill in ~ . ~ { I } f \' Page C - PERSPECTfrE, Wednesday, Feb. 25:' 1976 ' . . I Blaek History 'general strike' of Southern lab0r The War Department assured the Black man who fought next to battlefield or cornfield against us, (Main Resource - Teacher's Guide for Afro-American that in the end involVed perhaps the public that the runaway slaves him received only seven dollars a and we would be compelled to H . half a million people. Just by in Union army camps would month. (One Negro regiment, the abandon the war in three weeks.' 1stoty, New York State lk' h d · · Department of Social Services. wa 1ng away, t ey epnved the never be given arms. But a Massachusette's 54th, refused to (Emphasis in original) · - .February, 1 , 969 , Matilde ConfederacY of a vita1 segment of courageous; if eccentric General accept any wages for eighteen. Lincoln's Emancipation ·Zimmerman pp. 4143 ) its work force. Slaves were relied Hunter was faced with the choice months until they finally won an Proclamation is justly regarded as 7. War Between the S.tates. on to grow the region's food, of arming the availabl-e and eager equal salary with whites.) The one of the most important With the battle of Fort Sumter build its military fortifications Negroes ar.ound his camp or of Afro-American combatant also documents m American history. in early 1861 , America's civil war and perform a myriad of tasks in leading his troops down to certain had to live with the fear of what The preliminary proclamation, officially began. The newly- order to free virtually all white defeat at the hands .of a superior might happen to him if he fell issued in September, 1862, came men for servi,ce in the Confederate force. When the news into Confederate hands. as a tremendous surprise to many inaugurated- President Lincoln protested regularly that the war's Confederate army. reached Washington that Hunter Sometimes Southerners brutally people: only a few months earlier, Desperate measures were taken had put guns in the hands of ex- tortured and killed Black Lincoln had sponsored a mild purpgse was to petserve the to prevent this work force from slaves, Congress p· assed an prisoners. At Fort Pillow, the piece of legislation which merely Union and not to destroy slavery. being drained away. Slaves were outraged resolution and the rebels massacred three hundred said the federal government Indeed, Lincoln initially insisted' told gruesome stories of how scandalized War De·pattment Black .people after the fort would \cooperate\ with states that the war ·had nothing to do Union soldiers killed and ate· demanded an ex.pla:nation. surrendered. For all these that voluntarily chose to phase with slavery. But the slaves knew better. Negroes, worked tt.tem to death, Hunter sent them a scornful reasons, the mortality rate was out slavery by compensating and sold them to Cuba. common reply, which began: \No regiment much higheF among Negro slaveowners for their property. As soon as they had heard · 1 about the outbreak of war _ and pract1ce was oa led \running the of 'fugitive slaves' has been,. or is soldiers; at least 40,000 lost their Lincoln's military advisors were slave channels af communication Negroes\: moving slaves from an being, organized in this lives in the Civil War. not surprised, however, The}' insecure position near the front department. There is however, a The Navy was one field of realized that victory depended on were mysteriously swift -- line to a place further in the fine regiment of loyal persons serv1ce m which Blacks made a freeing the salves in rebel territor}' bondsmen began to flee to the · · f · k ld. mtenor. 0 ten 1t was necessary to whose late masters are fugitive significant contribution to the war and on making Blac so 1ers Union territory. In a rare · · r· h Th 1m press s 1 aves for the rebels.\ effort. Free Negroes had been available fer the Umon 1g t. e coincidence, the first fugitives to · · construction of military works; at Hunter was reprimanded for conspicuous irr the merchant Emancipation ProclamatiOn seek refuge in a Union •camp, in such labors they were carefully his action, but before long other marine before the war, and served still another purpose: it May 1861, came to almost the policed. officers were impelled to follow continued to serve at sea during transformed the war from a exact spot where the first Africans The 'general strike' of the his example. The war dragged on, the conflict. About one sixth of commitment to national unity had landed in :America in 1619. runaways could not be broken, waged with growing bitterness all seamen on the Union side were into a fight against slavery, and Then the floodgates opened·. Tens however. And even those Negroes and seriousness. No end was in Blacks for this it won much-needed of thousands of Black men, often who remained on their sight. Disease decimated the At the beginning of the war, moral support at home and m with their families, flocked to the plantations often found some way Union ranks: twenty seven most white Northerners deemed it Europe. England had been places where ~lue-clad army of aiding the Union cause. A regiments were lost by disease unthinkable that Black men moving toward recognition of the troops were stationed. During its tribute by an aid to Genera! every year. Violent white should be armed; some found the secessionist South, but the anti- first nine months on the Georgia Sherman records part of the resistance to the draft made it idea of a Black soldier hilarious. slavery sentiments of the English coast, the Union army was Black contribution to the doubtful that the- Union. would But the laughter st~pped when people made this step impossible inundated by 15,000 fugitives from Union effort. \When l think of the ever raise a sufficiently large battle reports began coming in after the E man c i patio n middle Georgia alone. universal testimony of our white army to assure victory. from the Afro-American Proclamation. As a military The runaways were often put to soldiers, who enter our lines Once they had been admitted regiments. At the height of the measure, Emancipation was good use. They were the army's everyday, that .in the hundreds of into the Union forces, Black war, m 1863, Lincoln told the successful, and the war was won. most important source .ef military miles which they traverse on their soldiers fought as if to make up nation what the Black troops As a document of freedom, intelligence and were frequently way, they never ask the poor slave for lost time. Their contribution meant; \There are now in the h'!wever, the Proclamation left sent back into the Confederate in vain for help;that the poorest Was decisive in many battles, and service of the United States near many questions unanswered. territory as scouts or guides. They Negro hides and shelters them; they received the highest praise two hundred thousand able- brought grave problems to the and shares the last crumb with from some of their officers. Often bodied colored men, most of Three constitutional amendment5 Union forces, of both a legal and them - and all this impresses me the Black late-comers fought with them under arms, defending and (the Thirteenth, Fourteenth, and practical nature. Lincloln with the weight of obligation andspecial disadvantages: they ac q u 1 r1 n g U n ion terri- steadfastly refused to make a a love for them that stirs the very received inferior equipment and tory ... Abandon all posts now Fifteenth) were still necessary tc policy decision regarding the depths of my soul.\ were served by inadequate garrisoned byBiack men: take two establish the legal status of thE ultimate status .of fugitives; some Tlte free Negroes of the North medical facilities. A white soldier hundred thousand men from our Negro as a free citizen. . Union generals, in fact, returned also 'misunderstand' the Civil was paid ten dollars a month, but side and put them in the . Sadama N. Homs th t th · t War -rhey too thought t't w- a·s a ~-»Jei!F?t&%i'!¥+4' e runaways. o etr masers; · -' ;;p;;p;;.Gf#!~+i-%i-www;.......,.~~~,......~·c= __________ _ others designated them war to free their brothers, and · l C t ( t 'contraband of war' and gave thus that. was in a very special o• • I see that a new love affair has l 0 fr e 0 Y 8ft S them work; a stubborn few tried way their own war. In virtually ISCUS$1011 commenced in Hickok. Good-1 Continued from Paae· A valiantly to ignore thept The only every northern city - Boston, • luck! l whom I feel were true people. th . 1 ld d · h Providence, New York, Continued from Page A~ . mg a genera cou not owtt Pht'ladelpht'a, Washt'ngton, Then ... I received the preceeding his refugees was free them; · 1 tt th t h d b Cl .eveland, Detrot't and others _ which seemed to be enlightemng of higher education lose their e er a s owe me may e Fremont tried,· but his th · 11 h th' the Black Popu ·Jatl'on organt'zed to everyone. We went on to talk identity, forget their roots or ere IS rea Y sue a mg as proclamation was rev<Jked by the · · - · 1 k h t Id President. Accommodating the militias which tried to enlist in the about the American ghetto m become cultural outcasts. because ractsm. as you w a wou you U . k comparison and contrast to of the expectations, views, and consider worst, a militant growing refugees involved immense mon ran s. But they were up in a militant environment or a t d d · kl the cultural-pluralism. Mr. Garrison stereotypes our people become to practical difficulties. Confusion urne own as qmc Y as Y person never realizing there was a d 1 h · h 1 volunteered. The government wanted to know about our have of us. Or does this make an rea ardshtp can ard y be w d h \ 'gg \ be' insisted that Black soldt'ers had no objectives, goals and long range them become more aware of their or · sue as m er mg avoided when thousands of men, • d · t 'J't t? I h th t I plans as of now. We also spoke of identity because they have been t()rce m o a fill an · ope a women and children live in the t · · 1 b h h 1 par m a pnvate quarre etween cultural ~nd role identity. Do cut-off by coming to school here. w oever t ese peop e are on wake of an arm.Y during war-time. wh't s th d h't th t fit th d · t 1 e ou erners an w 1 e Black st1,1dents going to This \little\ sesston gave US campus a 1 e wor - racls • Still the slaves came, in a N th · BE C''\'OL\ 8il!!:jll!'ari!l:I!;IP:IiDI!!a•zmsa51!!ioi!rzier~niei;irsi. il!!'lilll!iil!:ill!!'.ill!!2:iii!'Jiill!!':i!':.ill p red otninantlv· white .institutions \food for thought.\ :v .. Joseph Johnson, ,:· Did you know that... From the Federal Register Volume 4: Number 108 Department of Health, Education and Welfare Office of the Secretary Non-Discrimination on Basis of Sex 24135 - analysis 87 the Equal Employment Opportunity Commission administer title VII of the Civil Rights Act of 1964, which p ~ o h i b i t s e m p I oy m e n t discrimination, and -the Office of Federal .. ~on_tract_ Compli_~nce is responsible tor the coordination and implementation of Executive Order 11246, as amended, which p r o hi b i ts em p loy men t discrimination by Federal contractors. Health, Education and Welfare Department· is responsible for administration,· pursuant to the Office of Federal Contract Compliance regulations, of the Executive Order as to -Federal contractors who are educational institutions. Virtually all recipients subject to this Part 86 ·are also subject to Title VII and may also be subject to the Exectltive Order ... or A Fact Sheet from the United States Department of Health, Education and Welfare says that your salary on College Work- Study Program, in general; the salary you receive is at least equal to the current minimum wage ... or that Holden Roberto, the leader of the Front for National Liberation of Angola is believed to have been a CIA agent since 1961. His movement is direct opposition to the MPLA. or Urban Blacks entering Union must go through a I to 2 year adjustment period in order to survive. or There is another venereal disease besides gonorrhea and syphillis on tb:e rise to fame. (letter recipient) Health, Drugs, Medicine Over the Winter break, I spent a little over a week in the hospital TYPES Tetracycline is the most common antibiotic for the disease. which made my retur~ to Union Lobar pneumonia affects parts several days late. ~y lllne.ss w~s of the entire lobe of the lung. This Other types of ·pneumonia are du~ to pneumoma. Until this causes inflamed material to caused by gas inhalation pomt, I ~ev~r exactly knew what block certain passages which (chemical pneumonia), inhalation pneumoma w~s, I only knew the makes breathing difficult. It's a of harmful food or liquids symptoms whtch lead me to the sneaky disease because it appears (aspiration pneumonia), . injury emer~ericy room of the U~ited at first as only a cold. The to the chest which makes normal Hospttals of Newark. At the ttme, symptoms are a cough, sharp breathing difficult (traumatic my fear of .the. unknown would chest pains (due to pleurisy), pneumonia) and inhalation of oily ~ot . ~~.l~w me to .cu~e. my blood-streaked or brownish toxic substances (lipoid mq~tslttvtty about thl~ dtse~se sputum and a high fever. Pulse pneumonia). W~Lch I ~ad ne;,er assoc!ate~ w 1 th and respiration is double its Generally, the microorganisms bemg a Black person s dtsease normal rate within the individual. cause no harm unless your (SM lLE). But being human (and resistance is low due to a present not Per l!ect) I am now prepared cold, another disease, alcohol · 1 ' • · Bronchial pneumonia ranks less to give my readers a little se r i 0 us. Natura 11 y, the (drinking), smoking or some information about pneumonia inflammation is in the bronchi other condition presenting general which fits into this corner of and cause them to become · poor health. PERSPECTIVE H lth D Pneumonia is most serious in · • ea • rugs, spotted with infected tissue. and Medl .cl'ne· infants, small children and elderly · · Symptoms appear gradually with Pneumonia is an acute Bronchopneumonia, too but it is people who have been proven as · fl m t\ · & t' t· tl the most vulnerable. m am awn or 1n1ec 10n o 1e accompanied by· a -temperature I It · d b · 'th What can one do to help ungs. IS cause Y e1 er rise ·and it is easy to control b t · · · ttl d · th himself? Bed rest is the most ac ena or v1rus se e m e except with patients with heart lungs. h is considered primary if disease or other complications __ important thing, so that your not a Com nll'catl'on f a t·h body can fight against the ~-' · . o no er relapses are common. disease is present, where by it is infection and at the same time considered secondary under these Primary atypical pneumonia you will be avoiding any conditions. The microorganism, 1 · d 1 unnecessary strain on your entire occurs most y m young a u ts. pneumococus, causes the disease The symptoms are headache, respiratory system while on bed and loves to attack the upper f d h d rest. Tremendous amounts of ever, a ry coug , an respiratory system in your chest. generalized aches and fatigue. Continued OR Page D

PageD Black Talent: Drama On March I and 2 \Herbert the Third,\ a one act play by the contemporary Black playwrite Ted Shine, will be produced under director Elaine Baldwin. Elaine, an economics/arts major, has a good deal of experience in drama at Union, having appeared in \Hair \You Can't Take It With You,\ and \Indians.\ She is presently playing the role of Triculo in the Mountebanks' presentation of \The Tempest\ and just recently appeared in a Black history play on Access, an educational television program. Her work with \Herbert the Third\ is part of a directing class she is taking this term. Elaine chos~ to direct \Herbert the Thir.d\ because of her interest in developing Black tl~eater at Union. She fet>ls that there is not enough cooperation from the students an.d the school and woul-d like to see more involvement in ·Black productions. She sees an immediate need for more Black directors, Black actors, and a Black arts professor. Since drama at Union is basically. centered on white productions there are not many significant roles for Black students. Black theater productions would alleviate this problem and would enable Black students to use acting as an expression of themselves. Appearing in \Herbert the Third\ are Donnell Underwood, Assistant Director of Admissions, and Phyllis James, a junior., majoring in English. DonneU minored in acting at Albany State and Phyllis appeared in \The Rimers of Eldrich\ last term. They play husband and wife and the action takes place in their bedroom. If you want to find out what happens you can catch them in the Director's Lab Theater in the basement of Carnegie on March I and 2 at 8:30 p.m. ' ,, Horace, Don't forget to knock. Poets at Work King Georg.e, Your atjempts to be a seductive-mechanism are m PNEUMONIA AN OLD HARLEM MAN vain. Show me something · Continued rro-.. P•l• C concrete, I'll consider it. liquids are necessary. Drink ---- plenty of fluids. Besides that Never forget your Roots He sits on the steps of an old harlem ruin, watching his life pass while reflecting on his youth. Seeing the streets busy again with the running and jumping feet of little black kids. Remembering the games that were played in this same wall-less hall way. Asking if he can stay out for one more game of regalevio; RCK was his favorite game. He loved kissing girls without getting slapped in the face. Getting up by the support of his battered cane that has become his best friend. He walks up the ~treet and compares the cracks in the sidewalk to his life Reflecting ... Why this crack reminds me of the time I was caught stealing a 15~e candy har from the corner grocer- shaky and scared. And this ... why, I do believe this is where I fell years ago, busting my mouth ... look. my blood left its stain. Oh ... this cracl< ... \if you step on the crack you break your mother's back.\ Wonder if that's why Charlie's momma fell and is permanently paralyzed. Safely making it to the corner - he stops ood talks with some old drinkinJbuddies at the mail-box. - Looking good Charlie .. ; how's your mother? - 'Pectin' her to go any day now - When you gonna give the bottle up? -You know me ... cain't live without it now ... part of my blood. - So long Charlie, take care. He goes on his way with his trusted cane Stopping to tighten his baggy fitting coat (of heavy wool) which hides his worn and urine stained baggy .pants. Heading home he counts each street as ten-years of his life. After reaching the steps of his old falling but warm tenement, he's aged considerably. It takes about twenty-minutes for him and his cane to climb the stairs of his five-story building. He reaches the top and both he and his cane rest. Putting the key in the door and turning it to permit entrance has become more of a task but it's all worthwhile when he finally gets in. He relieves himself of the heavy wool coat. He puts the left-overs on the stove fire, He goes to the window and takes his favorite seat in an old worn rocker. High above the streets he watches the goings on below .. glad to be at home. I come .from from far I came here from far Away into the bush Green greenest of green Hogmalls chitlins ... and Otha things that don't go well With papaya and mango juice I came here from far Away into the earth Taste, salt Like my hody when perspired I came here from far Away into the dawn Day ..... Night No hlinkin~ signs To advertise my nudes Far sweeter The juices And a stream of bulbs Is from a blvd. of stars I come from far Away into the ocean's womb Where life heat~ rhythms Of silver scales And diamonds are abundant I came here from far Away into the ....... butt of a ~un Played dead Unit! I got me one Far distant The drums And a scream ol: voices Of moist kisses And a love of full life From far I will return Caution my steps To he right... ... Away!! (\I fly by night\) Gumede '70 AN OLD HARLEM WOMAN everyone should take ~especially She stands against the corner. light-post good care of his body (and enjoy Supporting her burdens of life, . life to) because I know from Oftentimes you'd see her giving wisdom to the young experience that it is not a pleasant Then other times she'd curse herself in public. scene at all. Draped in a Good-will print * * * * She prides herself in having Facts obtained from the (something) Encyclopedia and Dictionary of to wear. Medicine and Nursing · Her shoes are worn but, Benjamin F. Miller, M.D. They say nothing, compared Claire Brackman Keane, R.N., To her corns and callouses. lk B.S. W lf youd'd lethan ohld,dharlem woman ta 1972 _ The Press of W. B. on er w at s e , say: I remember when I woke in a dark alley bruised and beaten Saunders Company, West I don't know how I got there, W ~ s hi ng_to n Square., But I do rememb~r having an argument with my man. Phtladelphta, Penn., 19105 I remember worrying about food But, cashing in on those empty soda bottle~ of mine that I found in the streets got me a sandwich. I remember my aging Though I can't remember my youth. I remember sitting in the park Comparing experiences with an oak. Now. Here I stand, weakening, tired. depressed. disgusted, despised. alone, cold (in July), shunned - Gaining support from this old used light pole. I'll soon leave here and go nowhere (which is my home). It's a lovely place I know it will be warm there and All my friends will be glad to see me arrive. I hear the .. Tempest\ I production is missing an I 0 DOR. Carlos, Everyone is glad your grew back. I hair j i r Hey \young\ brother, You must have SOME- THING to begin with in order to use IT now; two centimeters. Mexican Salad With the arrival of the Franciscan mtssionaries to California came meals inspired from their native Mexico. Ranch Style Limas is an easy no-fuss dish that will brighten up your menus in keeping with the Bicentennial celebration and chunks of bacon provide the last bit of authenticity to the old world dish. Combine 2 ( 10-ounce) packages frozen Fordhook lima beans; I (I lb. 12 oz.) can t~matoes, Y2 cup chopped onions; Y4 cup brown sugar, packed; I teaspoon chili powder; l teaspoon salt; Y2 teaspoon garlic powder; !4 teaspoon cayenne; .and ·~ teaspoon pepper in bean pot or other heavy pot; mix well. . Top with 6 slices bacon, halved, and bake in moderate oven at 350 degrees about three hours. Makes about I Y2 quarts, 6 servings, I cup each. Brooklyn Bridges Falling Down Sadama N. Horns once, Everyday the same thing ... out for a walk, talk to a friend, I still LOVE you! You can~t hide love! when the brownsville projects were brick red six stories into heaven and we could crisscross ice cream sticks Communications I. On March 4,1976 at 9:30 pm, there will be a Black Students' Alliance meeting in the first floor lounge. Please attend and be ·prompt! Hickok House. making it home to the left-overs, then, the best time in his day ... relaxing in his old worn . b!Jt comfortable rocker- watching the goings on below. Mr. Considerate, I'll try to control hatred as the end result of my disap- pointment in you. Thank God! It's a blessing from heaven to hear that the Board for the Tenure of Professors will be reviewed. I hope that this will be a stet> to the better (from worse) rather than to the worst. Will a change be instituted? Sm~king banned in class, huh? You think so? Do you smoke, Brian Tucker? Are you the next Surgeon General? I see the college environment is taking a step toward a high school atmosphere. I could except the College Senate making a move to set up a smoking and non-smoking section in classrooms. / ..- - - .... , For the npn~smokers ~ my classrooms/ I'll show \you considerati~n but I won't put\my cigarette (out if my nicotine addicted lungs are craving a \Newportt if it's spring term or any term.· Personally, I view the whole pr.oposal ridiculous!!!!! •- M ......... O \'-..lj- > .. \ •.1 0. • t, I .... \« \ - ~ ~ ., ... to make summertime fans, i could study a sparrow gliding on air - and with the sunshine, see her sing between the story book trees and tickle green leaves once. when the grass was greener there and we caught bumblebees in glass jars/ shot marbles and said our prayer regularly ... when four-leaf clovers grew everywhere and the sun was a pal you could poke like a balloon high up there on the monkeybars those heavenly days ... once, before the kliens moved. and the o'haras. and the housing authority to our chagrin went into hiding. - Issac: J. Black 2. The next issue of PERSPECTIVE was tentatively scheduled for March 10, 1976, but due to the fact that FINALS and out Spring break will be at hand, the next issue of PERSPECTIVE will be published on April 7, 1976. You may submit any of your double-spaced type written articles to me between now and April 4, 1976. \ 3. On February 28, the Social Committee of the. B.S.A. will be sponsoring A Sadie Hawkins Affalr in Old Chapel from 10 p.m. to 3 a.m. The Deadline to sign-up for the African Dance workshop is March 1. Contact -· Donna Hawkins - 6700 or Bobby - 6147 for further information. (Open to Brothers or Sisters) The Social Committee is also sponsoring Zodiac Parties beginning March 30. 4. The Intramural Track Meet for Ladies February 29. Sunday, t 1 l i ·~ .w it) .. i~ .$! ~1 j~1 . -~~ . 'a\

PageD Black Talent: Drama On March I and 2 \Herbert the rhird,\ a one act play by the contemporary Black playwrite red Shine, will be produced under director Elaine Baldwin. Elaine. an econorn ics. arts major. has a good deal of experience in drama at Union, having appeared in \Hair.\ \You Can't Take It With You,\ and \Indians.\ She is presently playing the role of Iriculo in the Mountebanks' presentation of \The Iempest\ and just recently appeared in a Hlack history play on Access, an educational television program. Her work with \Herbert the rhird\ is part of a directing class she is taking this term. Elaine chose to direct \Herbert the Third\ because of her interest in developing Black theater at Union. She feels that there is not enough cooperation from the students and the school and would like to see more involvement In Black productions. She sees an immediate need for more Black directors, Black actors, and a Black arts professor. Since drama at lJ nion is basically centered on white productions there are not many significant roles for Black students. Black theater productions would alleviate this problem and would enable Black students to use acting as an expression of themselves. Appearing in \Herbert the Third\ are Donnell Underwood, Assistant Director of Admissions, and Phyllis James, a junior, majoring in English. Donnell minored in acting at Albany State and Phyllis appeared in '\The Rimers of Eldrich\ last term. They play husband and wife and the action takes place in their bedroom. If you want to find out what happens you can catch them in the Director's Lab Theater in the basement of Carnegie on March I and 2 at IUO p.m. Horace, Don't forget to knock. AN OLD HARLEM MAN Poets at Work Never forget your Roots King George, Your attempts to be a seduct-ive-mechanism are m vain. Show me something concrete, I'll consider it. .._ _______________ -- ·-- - He sits on the steps of an old harlem ruin, watching his life pass while reflecting on his youth. Seeing the streets busy again with the running and jumping feet of little black kids. Remembering the games that were played in this same wall-less hall way. Asking if he can stay out for one more game of regalevio: RCK was his favorite game. I come from from far I came here from far Away into the bush Green greenest of green Hogmalls chitlins ... and Otha things that don't go well With papaya and mango juice I came here from far Away into the earth Taste. salt AN OLD HARLEM WOMAN She stands against the corner. light-post Supporting her burdens of life, Oftentimes you'd see her giving wisdom to the young Then other times she'd curse herself in public. Draped in a Good-will print She prides herself in having (something) to wear. Her shoes are worn hut. They say nothing, compared To her corns and callouses. .r PNEUMONIA t:ontinued from P11ge- C liquids are necessary. Drink plenty of 11uids. Besides that everyone should take especially good care of his body (and enjoy J.ife to) because I know from experience that it is not a pleasant scene at all. * * * * Facts obtained from the Encyclopedia and Dictionary of Medicine and Nursing Benjamin F. Miller, M.D. He loved kissing girls without getting slapped in the face. Getting up by the ~upport of his battered cane that has become his best friend. He walk<- up the 'treet and compares the cracks in the ~idewalk to hi-; life !.ike mv hodv when per'>pired Claire Brackman Keane, R.N., B.S. W if youd'd !ethan ohld,dharlem woman talk 1972 The Press of W. B. on er w at s e say: , , Reflecting ... Why thi' crack reminds me of the time I wa' caught <;tea ling a 15'!\ candy har from the corner grocer -- 'hakv and 'cared. I came here from far Away into the da~'>n Day ... ,.\i)!ht I remember when I woke in a dark allev bruised and beaten Saunders ( ompa ny. West I don't know how I got there, - Washington Square, But I do remember having an argument with my man. Philadelphia, Penn., 19105 ~n blinking -.i)!ns I remember worrying about food T<l ad\t'rti'e m~ nude' Rut. c~hhing in on tho-;e empty soda bottles of mine that I found in the street' got me a sandwich. ' . ) - . -~ ' . . . - ~- . ' \' ' ' . . And this ... why. I do believe this is where I fell Far '\\ ecter The iuice'> I remember mv aging Mexican Salad years ago. busting my mouth ... look. my blood left its stain. Oh ... this crack. .. \if vou step on the crack you break your mother's back.\ Wonder if that's why Charlie's momma fell and is permanently paraly7ed. And a stream of hulhs Is from a hlvd. of 'tar-; Though I can't remember my youth. I remember sitting in the park Comparing experiences with an oak. With the arrival of the Franciscan mtsstonaries to California came meals inspired from their native Mexico. Ranch Style Limas is an easy no-fu$s dish that will brighten up your menus in keeping with the Bicentennial celebration and chunks of bacon provide the last bit of authenticity to the old world dish. Combine 2 (I 0-ounce) packages frozen Ford hook lima beans; I (I lb. 12 oz.) can tomatoes, Y2 cup chopped onions; ';4 cup brown sugar, packed; I teaspoon chili powder; I teaspoon salt; Y2 teaspoon garlic powder; ';4 teaspoon cayenne; and Yx teaspoon pepper in bean pot or other heavy pot; mix well. Top with 6 slices bacon, halved, and bake in moderate oven at 350 degrees about three hours. Makes about I Y2 quarts, 6 servings, I cup each. I come from far Safely making it to the corner he stops ood talh with some old drink in} buddies at the mail-box. Looking good Charlie ... how's your mother? - 'Pectin' her to go any day now A \I. a\' into the ocean's womb Where life heal\ rhythms Now, Here I stand. weakening. tired. depre\ed. disgusted. despised, alone. cold (in July), shunned - Gaining support from this old used light pole. I'll soon leave here and go nowhere Of 'ihcr scales (which is my home). And diamonds arc abundant It's a lovely place - When you gonna give the bottle up? -- You know me ... cain't live without it now., I know it will be warm there and part of my blood. I came here from far Awav into the ...... hut! of a gun All my friends will he glad to see me arrive. So long Charlie, take care. He goes on his way with his trusted cane Stopping to tighten his baggy fitting coat (of heavv wool) which hides his w~rn and urine stained baggy .pants. Heading home he counts each >treet as Plaved dead l 'nit! I got me one Far distant The drum' hear production 0 DOR. the is \Tempest\ I missing an I ~----------------' ten-years of hi~ life. After reaching the <;tep~ of hi'> old falling hut warm tenement. he\<; aged considerably. It takes about twenty-minute<; for him and And a sere am of. voices Of moist k i\e' Carlos, I '\nd a !me of full !if.: Everyone is glad grew back. your hair j his cane to climh the o;tairs of his five-story building. He reaches the top and hoth he and his cane rest. Putting the key in the door and turning it to From far permit entrance has become more of a task but it's all \I.Orthwhile when he finally gets in. He rel~evcs himself of the heavy 't\'OO! coat. I will return Caution m\ 'tep\ To he right ... Awavll I\ I flv hv n i)!ht\l r I Hey • 1 young\ brother, You must have SOME- THING to begin with in order He put<; the left-overs on the stove fire. He goes to the window and takes his favorite seat in an old worn rocker. Ciumede '70 High above the street<. he watches the goings on below .. glad to be at home. Fveryday the same thing,, out for a walk. talk to a friend, making it home to the left-overs, then, the hest time in his day ... relaxing in his old worn I still LOVE you! You can't hide love! but comfortahle rocker watching the !!oings on he! ow. Mr. Considerate, I'll try to control hatred as the end result of my disap- pointment in you. Thank God! It's a blessing from heaven to hear that the Board for the Tenure of Professors will be reviewed. I hope that this will be a ste!J to the better (from worse) rather than to the worst. Will a change be instituted? Smoking banned in class, huh? You think so? Do you smoke, Brian Tucker? Are you the next Surgeon General? I see the college environment is taking a step toward a high school atmosphere. I could except the College Senate making a move to set up a smoking and non-smoking section in classrooms. For the non-smokers in my classrooms; I'll show you consideration but I won't put my cigarette out if my nicotine addicted lungs are craving a \Newport;\ if it's spring term or any term. Personally, I view the whole proposal ridiculous!!!!! Brooklyn Bridges Falling Down once, when the brownsville projects were hrick red ~ix stories into heaven and we could crisscross ice cream sticks to make summertime fans. i could study a sparrow gliding on air - and with the sunshine. see her sing between the story hook trees and tickle green leaves once, when the grass wa., greener there and we caught humhlebees in glass jars' shot marbles and said our prayer regularly ... when four-leaf clovers grew everywhere and the sun was a pal you could p()ke like a balloon high up there on the monkeybars those heaven Iy days ... once, before the kliens moved. and the o'haras. and the housing authority to ()Uf chagrin went into hiding. - lssae J. Black to use IT now; two 1 centimeters. Sadama N. Horns Communications I. On March 4,1976 at 9:30 pm, there will be a Black Students' Alliance meeting in the first floor lounge. Please attend and be prompt! Hickok House. 2. The next issue of PERSPECTIVE was tentatively scheduled for March 10, 1976, but due to the fact that FINALS and our Spring break will be at hand, the next issue of PERSPECTIVE will be published on April 7, 1976. You may submit any of your double-spaced type written articles to me between now and April 4, 1976. \ 3. On February 28, the Social Committee of the B.S. A. will be sponsoring A Sadie Hawkins Affair in Old Chapel from 10 p.m. to 3 a.m. The Deadline to sign-up for the African Dance workshop is March I. Contact -· Donna Hawkins - 6700 or Bobby - 6147 for further information. (Open to Brothers or Sisters) The Social Committee is also sponsoring Zodiac Parties beginning March 30. 4. The Intramural Track Meet for Ladies - Sunday, February 29. t s t

