At 3:20 AM, Wedne~d~y morning, the U.PI teletype announced that James Earl \Jimmy\ Carter had won Mississippi's 7 electoral votes, pushing. the Govetnor's totaJ count beyond the necessary 270. With a sm;prjsingly heavy turnout at the polls, Carter received 51% to -Ford's 48% of the more than 76 million votes that were ca:>t (with 93% of the P.rel;lincts in). Early in t\te evening C~1rter scored solid v.ictories in his native South. With the exception of Ford's victory in Virginia, the South voted solidly Democratic .. Ford took a narrow victory in his home state of Michigan, while Georgia ~ave its ex-governor strong support. The pivotal states went both ways, with Ford capturing Connecticut and Illinois and Carter taking Pennsylvania ,· Volu.m~ 106, No.6 Wednesday, November 3, 1976 • forRler Georgia Governor fleeted 39th President of Unlted States and Texas. · Mafne and New Mexico. This was Several patterns seemed to . . Early New York returnswere in not enough, however, to develop throughout the evening. fav<)r of the President. As the compensate for Carter's victories Young Voters, Jews, Blacks, tabulations from New York City in Maryland, North Carolina, Labor, and former ''Democrats started .coming in, however, the Missouri, Mississippi and Ohio. for Nixon\ all went for Carter. sta:te began to swing over to Three states bucked the The Governor fared better than Carter. When New York was predictions in their allegiances. , expected . among Independents declared a Carter victory at Louisiana, the one southern state and Middle Income voters, but approximately 2 AM, the besides Virginia that was received poor support from Democ.tat's success appeared considered to be in the Ford Rotnan Catholics, a traditionally imminent. But it was not untH the camp, and Wisconsin registered Democratic group. Mississippi tabulations were in Carter majorities. Oregon, the • The nuclear physicist, peanut that he had the needed majority. one Western· state that was farming one-time Union College TRADE-OFF considered pro-Carter, went to student from Plains, Georgia, will The candidates traded off the. 17 Ford. he the 39th President of the electoral votes of New Jersey and The Republican team snared ~ Florida, with the Northern statt: Kans&s, Dole's home state, while going for Ford. By the timf:\\' Minnesota (Jiylondale territory) California's cmcial 45 votes were supported Carter. • offi<:iaJ, Carter had already beeill · The remainder of Ford's announced the winner. support was strongly located in . Races that were seen as close or the Mid and Far West. He also \tossups\ went. bo1h ways. ML took the traditionally :GOP For<l snared Indiana, Iowa, Vermont and New Hampshire. FORD 3 6 45 7 8 4 United States • In the New York State Senatorial race Daniel Patrick Moynihan, former Ambassador to the United Nations, won an expected victory over incumbent Jame!; Buckley. Moynihan's four percentage point marg·in, however, was far short of the twelve point spread predicted by the New York Times. The victory did come early in the evening, though, with Buckley conceding at about II PM Tuesday night. Alabama Arkansas Delaware CARTER Dist. of Columbia 9 6 3 3 17 12 4 9' 10 Senate ·Meets· Thursday . . Alaska Arizona California Colorado Connecticut Idaho Illinois Indiana Iowa Kansas Maine Michigan Montana Nebraska Nevada 26 13 8 7 4 21 4 5 3 4 ·Florida Georgia . Hawaii Kentucky Louisiana Maryland Massachusetts Minnesota Mississippi Missouri 10 14 10 7 12 41 13' 25 27 ..... ~._ . 0~ November 4th at 4:30 in room 213 of the Psychology building, the All•College Senate, the college's highest legislative body will meet for the first time this year. After approval of previous Senate minutes and new courses already approved by the Educational Policy Committee, a pro forma gesture, the Senate will turn ·to three agenda items. The major item on the Se11ate agenda is the . Non~Academic Tra·nscript. Passed in \spirit\ last year by the Senate, a committe.e was formed to draw up a specific transcript and process for its implementation. The committee began its work in the middle of Winter term and returned a completed' report to the Senate early this fall. • As of now the outcome of the non-academic transcript proposal cannot he predicted. The ten student Senators are expected to vote for it as well as Dean Smith. However, Concordy has learned that Divisions l, H, and Hl, with a total of nine Senate votes, have voted down the proposal. As things stand now two votes are needed either from Dean Brownlee, Dlvision IV, or \a dissident faculty member from Divisions I, ll, ~or lll to insure passage of the proposal. Advocates of the proposal are expected to argu~ that its pas!;age will increase student faculty contact and create a climate of contribution on campus. Faculty : ' .. opponents will probably state thal the process. is too bureaucratic ap.d should not be compulsory upon students. Debate on the non-academic transcript is expected to· take up most of the Senate meeting. l'he next item on· the agenda is a change . in the charge to the College Resources committee that is expected to pass without much discussion. The final proposal comes from Professor Finkelstein and stipulates that a representative from the Dean of Faculty's office· will sit on the Admissions Committee. This also is expected to pass easily. The AU-College Senate is expected to meet again just before Thanksgiving. All important issues this year will be handled by this body ranging from Comp-Ed revision to recommendations for Union's athletic future. Union students should try to attend any or all of the Senate meetings as they are directly affected by their consequences. · New Hampshire New Jersey ...-New Mexico North Dakota Oklahoma Oregon South Dakota Utah Vermont Virginia Washington Wyoming 27 states 17 3 3 8 6 4 4 . 3 12 9 3 241 electoral 37,227,549 total votes votes New York North Carolina Ohio Pennsylvania Rhode Island S. Carolina Tennessee Texas W. Virginia Wisconsin 24 states 4 8 10 26 6 II 297 electoral votes 39,075,655 total votes TQTALS (93% of all• precincts counted) Non-Academic Transcript Explained by KAREN SPAR Part ici patio n in extra- one administrator, five faculty, The transcript will include three curricular activities is essential to members, and four students, met phases. In phase one, the student one's development here at Union and designed a report on the non- will be required to fill out a College. Acting in these . academic transcript. statement of intentions of sentiments, the College Senate, on The non-academic transcript is participation in extra-curricular February· 12th of this year, an official document th:at activities. This will be required passed a proposal approving the indicates what extra-curricular before the completion of the · concept of a non-academic activities a student was involved student's second term of transcript to be developed •by a in during his/her years at Union. matriculation at Union College. sub-committee of College It will accompany the ~tudent's In the second phase (to occur senators-. Consequently, . the academic transcript wherever it during the final term of the Comrnittee, headed by-Professor goes after the student's .sophomore year), the student will William Daniels and ·including graduation from the College.. develop an evaluation of his/her Professor Bill_Daniels, chairman of SenQte <.._ .ontmillle~e on the Non-academic Transcript. work during the past year, along with a new statement of- intentions. At the end of the junior year, the third a~d final phase of assessing one's entire contribution in terms of extra- curricular activities will be in order. The transcript will then be signed by the student and countersigned by a faculty advisor ot the Dean of Students. This non-academic transcript Will be on file at the Registrar's Office along with one's academic transcript. In the event that the student had not been involved in any extra-curricular activities during his/ he-r college career, a blank form will accompany the academic transcript on file with the Registrar. Attitudes on the concept of a non-academic transcript are varied. Andy Koblenz . former class representative and currently a student trustee, sees the only possible pressure developing from the introduction of a non- academic transcript into the evalu!ltitm structure of a student would be those pressures felt by the student from his peers. lt may put pressure on the student to compete with peers in terms of non-academic commitments as happens now with academic activities. Yet hopefully, this proposal will not so much create new competition among students as it ·will encourage students to devote some of their energies in new and beneficial activities that can aid both the student and Union College. A positive aspect of this proposal is that the non-academic transcript could provide for a better advising system than we presently have. Advisors would have more knowledge of the student's interests and perhaps can put some input into the student's performance in the non- academic world of college. Says Matt Brief, ex-Committee member, this will help to \create a climate of better relationships between the students and faculty,\ Contin_ued on Page 8

CONCORDIENSIS, ,Wednesday, Nov. 3, 1976 Union .Expo '76 by MICHAEL MARKS This past Wednesday, Oct. 27, Union College had its annual Activities Ex,position, but this year it had a different 'Wrinkle.\ Entitled U X '76 (Union Expo· '76), it was organized by the Student Development Advisory Board. The Advisory Board comprised of Cooky Port, lrv Kaufman, Craig Carlson, Lisa Gotbaty, Mike Marks, Joe _F,.,einberg, Joe Johnson and Jeff Amado meet every Tuesday evening in the Student Activities Office. Their functio\n is to (I) stimulate life on campus, (2) develop an interest in students to become involved in campus life, (3) strive for greater student-Jaculty contact, and ( 4) bring the students themselves together. In light' of the Board's function, at the successful UX '76/ast Wednesday photo by phil a. pi no it was decided to have an activity exposition. The reason for the exposition was tha't most students don't know what activities are available oh campus. In previous years attempts at an expositi<m have been halfibaked, and the - Board decided to -add some credibility to the Expo. Each activity or club was asked to set up an exhibit explaining or showing w!1at they do. The Expo was a great success due to the excellent cooperation of each participant. It J;tas been estimated that approximately 800 people attended. Special thanks should go to the Men's and Women's Glee. Clubs, Coffee H<)Use,. Film Committee, Jazz Workshop, Stranger Breaks Into Edwards FenCing Club, lnternational Relations Club and Cabaret for their ·excellent presentations, along with the other participating organizations. In addition, hot pretzels and rum 'n cider were by LAURIE MERRILL An intruder broke into Edwards House at 5 on the morning of Oct. 26th committing breaking and entering and burglary, as well as entering the room of 2 sleeping girls and staying there at least 5 minutes. He got into Edwards House by removing a pane of glass from one of the doors and opening the door from the inside. He got into the girls' room because the door to their room had a faulty lock. Since then the lock has been fixed. The intruder awoke one of the girls. The girl, who \Y}shed not to be identified, said \I awoke with this hand over my mouth. I sat up quickly and he removed his hand. He kept touching my hair and trying to hold my hand, and continuously said, 'I just want to talk, please don't scream.' Then the loft began to sql:leak, and he told me that if l screamed. he was going to kill me. Then my roommate awakened and asked me if I was alright and who was with me. Then she screamed, and the man ran out of· the house.\ The roommate then •called Security. Officer Hisgen of Security arrived at the House within 5 minutes and checked all · the doors. Meanwhile, 3 . radio cars of the Schenectady Police Department searched the Lenox Road and Nott Si'reet area. They did not find any suspects or clues. The case remains open. . When the Schenectady police arrived at Edwards at 6, they found the pane of glass missing from the door, determining the method of the intruder's entrance. Later that morning, Dawn Porto, one of the Residence Advisers of Edwards H~use, noticed that Blood Drive Ends The recent blood drive held at Alumni Gym netted 246 pints of blood. Twenty potential donors were referred for various medical reasons. The average of 123 donors per day c-ompares favorably to last fall's average of 109. Theta Delta Chi awarded the funds for a keg to Delta Upsilon. D U's donor percentage was slightly over 50% Although DU had never won the keg in previous contests, the fraternity consistently has been in the chase, losing by the narrowest of margins on several occasions. Fri. Nite \2 'fer l\ 2 BOTTLES SCHLITZ FOR 60¢ Excellent turnouts were recorded by several other houses, including Alpha Delta Phi, Delta Phi, Sigma Phi, Phi Sigma Kappa, and Theta Delta Chi. Participation among independents was spotty, while faculty, staff, and their families . played a large part in the drive's . success. Two more bloodmobile visits are scheduled for the 1976-77 school year. The next one will be Wednesday and Thu.rsday, February 2 and 3, 1977. The final visit is_ scheduled for Thursday and Friday, Mav 19 and 20,1977. Sat. Nite MOLSON'S ON TAP $1.50 Pitcher 40¢ 16 oz. draft Free Peanuts Daily at the Rathskeller H! Maurice B. Graubart & Sons 'Serving Union For Three Generations' 166 Jay St. QuaUty Service &: Fine Workmanship· 'The Jay St. Jeweler• .. ______ -.;lliHiiiERSHEL . MAURICE B _WA.L.l.&R / ../ ./ / ...r ./ / ..r / ;r / / /, / / r ....-:\ over $30 worth of food had been stolen from the refrigerator in Edwards lounge. l'he girl wh6 had been awakened by the intruder couldn't see very well due to .the darkness ·of the room. As best she can tell, the intruder was wearing a light seersucker coat, was of a¥erage weight, shorter than 5':1:0\ and ulder than 22 year-s of age. According to Clifford Woad, who is Director of Security and Safety here at Union College and the ex-chief of'lhe Schenectady Police· Department, intruders served. . have been cropping up at The student Development 'campuses ·~II over. Skidmore, Advisory Board is cancer.ned with Albany State and Community adding a new dimension to the Colleges have been reporting range of opportunities on this strangers and intrucl.ers within campus. The combined effort of their dormitories. m~ny people made this function a His advice to Union students is . great St'f.Cess. If you're ambitious, to \Please lock doors at night,. If ·, the Advisory Board is looking for you do have a problem, scream, suggestions from .anyone that make noise, do anything you can. wa~t~ to make. U~io_n a mor~ Take precautions to pteven~ these excttmg and . mtn?umg . place.· occutrep.ces. Lock your windows, Drop any suggest1011s m the and if you see a stranger, ask him Student Activities Office and why he is•there.\ direct them to Craig Carlson. Local Alum,ni on N.ESCAC by, ~,Q.,P,AJKOFF At their September meeting, the Schenectady Alumni Club . passed a resolution recommending that Union College should leave the New England Small College Athletic Conference. However, the Executive Committee of the Alumni Council passed a separate resolution at their October 16th meeting stating that the alumni body should reserve comment until the· President's · Task Force on Athletics delivers its final report: In an interview with Concordiensis, Harrison Demgen, the Director of Alumni Affairs Pre-Registration MateriaLs Pre-registration materials for winter term 1976-77 will be available at the Office of the Registrar, Room 2, Administration Building, beginning Monday, November 15th. Students are urged to promptly secure their copy of these materials. Students who do not plan to return fo Union for the winter term, except for graduating seniors, must immediately give notice of their plans to the Office of the Dean of Students. Potential December graduates should inform the Office of the Registrar of their plans to finish their studies at the end of fall term. Students should confer with, Faculty Advisers during the week of November 15-19. Some depa-rtments may announce special arrangements for advising. Please be alert for such announce-ments .. Course requests are due at the Office of the Registrar not later than Monday, November 22nd. A ten dollar ($10.00) late fee will be assessed there11fter. explained that the Alumni club based its decision on the''fact that NESCAC placed too many restnctwns on the athletes. Specifically, Demgen mentioned that the decision was based on the fact that recent basketball squads were unable to participate in post season tournamel)tS. Demgen stated that the resolution had no relation to the question of whe~her hockey should move into the Division I category. Nevertheless, the executive committee of the. Alumni Council passed the following resolution to clarify their position. \The executive committee of the Alumni Council is hereby empowered to meet and carefully study the report of the Athletic Task Force and to make firm ·recommendations on behalf of the Alumni Council to the Board of Trustees of the College. as soon as possible.'' The executive c'omrnittee of the alumni council will meet again in February in the hope of reviewing ·the report at that time. Harrison Demgen, Director oj Alumni . Affairs photo by phil a. pino The nation the n what? focus o lively d Monda: two of journali membe1 the Ne~ Wills, s political Review d'iscussi1 Prospec Room C Science public. Both teaching this yea member 1 semin~ on the o first Wa of M1 Historic• a semin: election, series oJ Declarat Their part of sponso.re Political is expect political journalis Rober1 journalisr reporter f AD l TE The an ad evaluat~ Assistar Butterst of Biolc Perso contribu investig~ submits names t Craig, Electrica Com put' Hall. Uni Everyon on the Cf are near j as autom Clea-rly s1 planning .t policy of r preserve environ me: .time provic reasonably to and a,b1 With th College ha:

CONCORDIENS/S, Wednesday, Nov. 3, .1976 Union Ex 0 ' 6 at the successful UX '76 last Wednesday photo by phil a. pino by MICHAEL MARKS !hi-, pa~t \\ t:dncsday. (kt. 27, Union Collt:gc had ils annual Activitie~ Exposition. but this year it had a different \v.nnkk.\ Entitled l' X '76 ( l' nion Expo '76), it wa~ organited by the Student De\ dupn~em Ad vi~or) Board. The Advisory Board wmprised of Cooky Port, In Kaufman, Craig Carlson, l.i~a Ciorbaty, Mike Marks, Joe Fci.nberg, Joe Johnson and Jeff Amado meet every Tuesday evening in the: Student Activities Office. Their function is to (I) ~timulatc life on campus, (2) develop an interest in students to become involved in campus life, (3) strive for greater Stranger Breaks Into Edwards by LAURIE MERRILL An intruder broke into Edwards House at 5 on the morning of Oct. 26th committing breaking and entering and burglary, as well as entering the room of 2 sleeping girls and staying there at least 5 minutes. talk, please don't scream.' Then the loft began to squeak, and he told me that if I screamed he was going to kill me. Then my roommate awakened and asked me if I was alright and who was with me. Then she screamed, and the man ran out of the house.\ over $30 worth of food had been stolen from the refrigerator in Edwards lounge. The girl who had been awakened by the intruder couldn't see very well due to the darkness of the room. As best she can tell, the intruder was wearing a light seersucker coat, was of average weight, shorter than 5' I 0\ and older than 22 years of age. According to Clifford Wood, who is Director of Security and Safety here at Union College and the ex-chief of the Schenectady Police Department, intruders have been cropping up at campuses all over. Skidmore, Albany State aJ'Id Commur.ity Colleges have been reporting strangers and intruders within their dormitories. His advice to Union students is to \Please lock doors at night. If you do have a problem, scream, make noise, do anything you can. Take precautions to prevent these occurrences. Lock your windows, and if you see a stranger, ask him why he is there.\ qudent-faculty contact, and (4) bring the ~tudenb themselves together. In light of the Board'~ tuAction, it 'Aas decided to have an activity expu~ition. I he rea~on for the ~xpmitiun 'A a~ that most ~tudents don't kno\o\ 'Ahat acti\itlc~ are a\ailabk on campu~. In prev-ious yearl> attempts at an expo~ition have been half-baked, and the Hoard decid~d to -add some nedibility to the L:xpo. Each acti\ ity or dub was asked to ~et up an exhibit explaining or showing what they do. The Expo was a great success due to the excellent cooperation of each participant. It has been estimated that approximately 800 people attended. Special thanks should go to the Men's and Women's Glee Clubs, Coffee House, Film Committee, Jazz Workshop, Fencing Club, International Relations Club and Cabaret for their excellent preser'ltations, along with the other participating organizations. In addition, hot pretzels and rum 'n cider were served. The student Development Advisory Board is concer.ned with adding a new dimension to the range of opportunities on this campus. The combined effort of many people made this function a great ste-cess. If you're ambitious, the Advisory Board is looking for suggestions from anyone that wants to make Union a more exciting and intriguing place. Drop any suggestions in the Student Activities Office and direct them to Craig Carlson. He got into Edwards House by removing a pane of glass from one of the doors and opening the door from the inside. He got into the girls' room because the door to their room had a faulty lock. Since then the lock has been fixed. The intruder awoke one of the girls. The girl, who wished not to be identified, said \l 'awoke with this hand over my mouth. l sat up quickly and he removed his hand. He kept touching my hair and trying to hold my hand, and continuously said, 'l just want to The roommate then ·called Security. Officer Hisgen of Security arrived at the House within 5 minutes and checked all the doors. Meanwhile, 3 radio cars of the Schenectady Police Department searched the Lenox Road and N ott Street area. They did not find any suspects or clues. The case remains open. When the Schenectady police arrived at Edwards at 6, they found the pane of glass missing from the door, determining the method of the intruder's entrance. Later that morning, Dawn Porto, one of the Residence Advisers of Edwards House, noticed that Local Alumni on NESCAC Blood Drive Ends The recent blood drive held at Alumni Gym netted 246 pints of blood. Twenty potential donors were referred for various medical reasons. The average of 123 donors per day compares favorably to last fall's average of 109. Theta Delta Chi awarded the funds for a keg to Delta Upsilon. DU's donor percentage was slightly over 50% Although DU had never won the keg in previous contests, the fraternity consistently has been in the chase, losing by the narrowest of margins on several occasiOns. Fri. Nite \2 'fer l\ 2 BOTTLES SCHLITZ FOR 60CI> Excellent turnouts were recorded by several other houses, including Alpha Delta Phi, Delta Phi, Sigma Phi, Phi Sigma Kappa, and Theta Delta Chi. Participation among independents was spotty, while faculty, staff, and their families played a large part in the drive's . success. Two more bloodmobile visits arc scheduled for the 1976-77 school year. The next one will be Wednesday and Thursday, February 2 and 3, 1977. The final visit is scheduled for Thursday and Friday, Mav 19 and 20, 1977. Sat. Nite MOLSON'S ON TAP $1.50 Pitcher 40¢ 16 oz. draft Free Peanuts Daily at the Rothskellar !H Maurice B. Graubart & Sons 'Serving Union For Three Generations' 166 Jay St. Quality Service & Fine Workmanship · 'The Jay St. Jeweler' HERSJI·EL MAURICE B _WA.Ll'ER lZI!!l'illl!'.ll!-. .. ii!P2.iil!'.iBI!'a!iil!a by ED PAIKOFF At their September meeting. the Schenectady Alumni Club passed a resolution recommending that Union College should leave the New England Small College Athletic Conference. However, the Executive Committee of the Alumni Council passed a separate resolution at their October I 6th meeting stating that the alumni body should reserve comment until the President's I ask Force on Athletics delivers its final report. In an interview with Concordiensis, Harrison Demgen, the Director of Alumni Affairs Pre-Registration Ma terial.s Pre-registration materials for winter term 1976-77 will be available at the Office of the Registrar, Room 2. Administration Building, beginning Monday, November I 5th. Students are urged to promptly secure their copy of these materials. Students who do not plan to return to Union for the winter term, except for graduating seniors, must immediately give notice of their plans to the Office of the Dean of Students. Potential December graduates should inform the Office of the Registrar ot their plans to finish their studies at the end of fall term. Students should conter with Faculty Advisers during the week of November 15-19. Some departments may announce special arrangements for advising. Please be alert for such announcements. Course re4ucsts are due at the Office of the Registrar not later than Monday. :\ovemhcr 22nd. A ten dollar ($10.00) late fee will be assessed thereafter. explained that the Alumni club based its decision on the fact that :-.JESCAC placed too many restnctwns on the athletes. Specifically. Demgcn mentioned that the decision \\as based on the fact that recent basketball squads were unable to participate in post season tournaments. Demgen stated that the resolution had no relation to the question of whether hockey should move into the Division I category. Nevertheless, the executive committee of the Alumm Council passed the following resolution to clarify their position. \The executive committee of the Alumni Council is hereby empowered to meet and carefully study the report of the Athletic Task f-orce and to make firm ·recommendations on behalf of the Alumni Council to the Board of T\rustces of the College as soon as possible.\ lhe executive committee of the alumni council will meet again in February in the hope of reviewing the report at that time. ·P~ I he r•Jation the rc 11.hat? locus r lively d Monda tWO of journal .membe the Ne1 Wills, ~ politica Review discHssi Pro spec Room ( Science publ,ic. Both teach in! this yea member , semm: on the < tirst Wa ot M Historic a semin election, serres o Declarat Their part of sponson Political is expec1 political iournalis Rober journalis1 reporter l AD I TE rhe an ad evaluatt Assistar l:luttcrst of Bioi< Perso contribt investig: submit ! names t Craig, Electric< Com put Hall. Un Everyor on the Ci are near as autom Clearly s• planning J policy of 1 preserve environ me time provi reasonabl; to and ab• With th College ha - - :: ;:; * . - - . ~ : . .. ~

CONCOR/)JENS/S, Wednesday,' Nov. 3, 1976 Post E·lection Talk The:; election is over, and the nation has selected Its leader for the next four years. Now what? That question will be the focus of \What is ce~tain to be a lively discussion at Union College Monday, November 8,. between two of the country's top jgurnalists~Robert Kielman, a member of the editorial board of the New York. Times, and Garry Witls, syndicated columnist a.nd political analyst for the New York Review ·of Books. The panel discussion, titled ''Post-Election Prospects,\ will be· at 8 p.m .. in Room 016 of the college's Social Science Building. It is free to the public. Both Kleiman and WiHs are teaching courses at Union College this year. As a part-time faculty member, Kleiman will be teaching 1 seminar in foreign affairs. Wills, on the other hand, is the college's first Washington Irving Professor · of Modern Litera.ry and Historical Stud'ies. He is teaching a seminar in theories of political election, as well as delivering a series of weekly lecture·s on the Declaration of Independence. Their discussion Monday .. is part of the \Debate '76\ series sponsored by the Union College Political Science De.partment and is expected to reflect the varying political philosophies of the two journ;dists. Robert Kleiman started his journalism career in 1939 as a reporter for the Washington Post. AD HOC COMMITTEE-.. TENURE OF PROF. BUTTERSTEIN The Provost has appointea· an ad hoc committee to evaluate .the tenurability of Assistant Professor George M. Butterstein of the Department of Biological Sciences. Persons who are able to contribute to the committee's investigation are invited to submit statements or give their names to the· chairman, E. 1'. Craig, Department of Electrical Engineering and Computer Science, Steinmetz Hall. In 1945, he joined U.S. News and World Report, ·first as a Washington-based editor on foreign affairs and later becoming a roving correspondent in Eastern ' Europe. In 1948, Kleiman took up permanent residence in Europe where he remained for the next 15 years. ln that time he toured ..22 European and African co1:1ntries, interviewed most of their top leaders, and wrote more than 200 magazine articles on the political, economic a:nd military problems . of Europe and the Atlantic Alliance. Kleiman became a member of the New York. Times editorial· board in 1963. In that capacity, he visits Washington freque-ntly, Europe annually, and has made repeated v1s1ts to the Soviet Union and th<Ol Far East. Kleiman won the Alicia Patterson Foundation Fellowship Award in 1972 for his editorials and op-ed columns. Kleiman is the author of \Atlantic . Crisis-American Diplomacy Confront& a Resurgent Europe,\ and a co- author of \NATO in Quest of Cohesion.·· Gany Wills, trained as a classicist, writes a syndicated column for Universal Press Syndicate and is a frequent contributor to the New Y ark Rev.iew of Books. He is. t'he author ·Of the critically acclaimed \Nixon' Agonistes,\ a chronicle of Richar<l Nixon's rise to the Presiden~y,.._ and \Bare Ruined Choirs.\ Wills taught classics at Johns Hopkins from 1962 to 1969, and in 1971 was a Regents' Lectmer at the University of California. ln the fall of 1975, he W;is the Christian Gauss Lecturer at _ Princeton University. He was a contributing editor to Esquire magazine from 196 7 to 1970. Other books by }Vilis include \The Second Civil War,\ \Jack. Ruby,\ \'Roman Culture,\ \Politics and Catholic Freedom,\ and \Chesterton.\ f,orum -Unanimously Last Thursday in Fox Lounge, the Student Forum met to discuss .several issues. The primary item on the agenda was the Forum's discussion of the Non-Academic Transcript. This major proposal will be on the All-College Senate agenda at its first meeting Nov. 4th. Before discussion ensued on the Non-Academic Transcript, Gary Hipp and Rob Davis, representing Saga Food Service appeared before the Forum. The Saga representatives werecriticized ·for rising prices in Hale House and the Rathsk.ellar. Hipp defended rising prices in Hale as economically necessa·rY and said the Skellar policy of bigger sandwiches but less items was the best way to rut;~ the Skellar. After a- long rambling discussion, both Hipp and Davis· consented to thinking about lowering prices in the Skellar. Hipp did propose one unique. idea of turning the Skellar into a \Pizza Hut\ operation and Hale House into a fast food outlet. The matter is \under consideration'' and any decision would be reported · to Forum for its approval, said Hipp. After the Saga representatives left, the Forum turned to discu\Ssion of the Non-Academic Transcript where members of the Forum questioned Matt Brief and Andy Koblenz, two members of the Senate Committee on the Non-Academic Transc-ript. Specifically, the implementation process and the question of its possible coercive effects on students to participate in extracurricular actiVities was at issue. Koblenz and Brief explained that the transcript would bring Faculty Advisor and student together, in addition to fostering Mike Ganz, vice president of the student body. P·ro NAT a climate of contribution at Union. The 15 Forum members present agreed and voted unanimously to endorse the Non- Academic Transcript. This may mean that all ten student votes will be cast in favor of the proposal at the Senate meeting tomorrow. Thirteen votes total will be enough· to pass. the Non- Academic proposaL With the major item on the agenda out of the way, Forum . turned to a minor item. Mike Ganz, Vice-President and Chairman of Committee tm Committees noted that several dubs' constitutions were missing from Mrs. Marra's office. These missing Constitutions would have to be rewritten. At this point, President Trump adjourned the meeting. The next Student Forum meeting wilf be Thurs., Nov. lith at 8:00. All meetings are open and students are urged to attend. JANUARY SEMINAR IN INDIA The Lisle Fellowship, Inc. will sponsor a three-week work. and study seminar in India from January 3-23, 1977. Since 1936, The Lisle Fellowship's programs in international human relations have helped promote peace and understanding for peoples in 91 nations. \The seminar is designed for both students and others who are interested in exploring alternative approaches in the fields of education and rurar development. on the subcontinent. It is an unusual opportunity for intercultural and intergroup experiences,\ said Lisle's International Co-Directors, Dr. 1 DeWitt and Edna Baldwin. Highlights of the seminar include: Orientation in the capital, New Delhi, at the Gandhi Peace Foundation where guest speakers will lead discussion groups on cross-cultural themes and ·issues relating to education · and rural development. Field trip to live and work in a rural tribal Union in the. SO's: Sneak Preview · · area where a social action community has spent the last 25 years working with peoples in I ,000 Villages. . Everyone who lives or works on the carnpus knows that we are near the bursting point as far as automobiles are concerned. Clearly some kind .of orderly planning .must replace the casual policy of recent years if we are to preserve a desirable campus environment. and ·at the same time provide people with safe and reasonably convenient movement to and about the campus. With this issue in mind, the College has commissioned a study -------.... by professionals of its roadways, its parking problems, and the question of where future buildings should be located. This study is now completed and is available for judgment and suggestions by ail members of the Union community. Copies of the ~mplete report are available at the reserve desk. Its main goals may be summarized as follows: 1, Providing plans for eo ping with automobnes and yet maintaining the beauty of the Union College - a peek at the Future campus. 2. To give mo'i'-e attention to safety, thinking here of keeping fire lanes open as well as making t-he college grounds safer for the many who walk about the campus all hours of the day and night. Included are new entrancts to the campus. , 3. To make for a more attractive space around Old Gym to the end that applicants for admission will have a better first impression of the College. 4. To ant1c1pate where new buildings such as those for Arts and Athletics might best be located. With only one hundred acres, there is obviously not enough space to make everyone happy. H then becomes a matter for hard decision and intelligent compromi·s(1. The attached drawing summarizes our consultant's recommendations. It Total cost (including room, board, fees for tours, land transportation-but excluding travel to and from New York · CitY) is $1100. The India Seminar is open to the first 15 persons who apply. For an application and further · informat:ion, please write, India Seminar, c; o Lisle Fellowship, Inc., 511 Meadow Hall Drive, Rockville. Md. 20851, or call 301- 424-4805. is a schema,tic design and not to 1.;.::_ __ ~__;·:....._.:. __ ----=---I be viewed with a measuring tape WATSON FELLOWSHIP in mind. The suggested Arts PROGRAM building. for example. is drawn in Last week. the Sub-Committee with no intention that this will be appointed to pick the College's either its final shape or size, but four nominees interviewed a short to indicate that this is probably list of candidates and chose the the most likely location when we following students: can affort it. Contrary to the David B. HOPKINS to study· drawing, it w.ill intrude little upon administrative legal processes in the Garden. The study is to serve Britain and Sweden. Union only as a guide for growth. Nicole J. MENAGE to study The Campus Planning Board, oral tradition and history in West which is made up of faculty, staff. Africa. and students, will welcome any Carol L. RAND- to collect · h · children's songs and games in suggestions t at members ol the college community may care to Britain. make. If you_ would like to Donna SOCKEI.L to travel comment. please put your to Sweden to examine the reactions in writing and ~end position ol women there tn them to me. or to student athletics and in society In generaL representative. Kevin Schary (Box . These four candidates will now 724). We hope later to schedule make formal applications to the one or more open meetings for Watson Foundation. ahd lhe explaining the many detail' of the Fxecutivc Director ol the plan and lor bringing togethe 1 Foundation will \isit the Campus c11nst ruct1vc ~uggcst 1 ons. early in March. I 977. to inten icv. them. I he Foundation's awards CW. Huntley, for the Campus Planning Boar.d will he announced about the beginning of April. This year 176 candidates from 50 different institutions will be competing for 70 Fellowships.

CONCORDJENS!S, Wednesday, Nov. 3, 1976 Post Election Talk !he elect ion is over, and the Nation has selected its leader for the Next tour years. Now what'! I hat question wilil he the focus of what is certain to be a lively discussion at Union CoHege Monday. ~ovemher 1{, between two of the country's top Jourmalists Robert Kleiman, a rncmber of the editorial hoard of the New York I imes. and Garry Wills. syndicated columnist and political analyst f·or the New York Review of Books. I he panel discussion, titled \Post-Election Prospects.\ will be at ~ p.m. in Room 016 of the college's Social Science Building. It is free to the publ,ic. IN 1945. he joined U.S. :\ews and World Report. first as a Washington-hased editor on foreign affairs and later hecoming a rovi;ng correspondent in Eastern Furope. In 194~. Kleiman took up permanent residence in Europe where he remained for the next 15 years. In that time he toured 22 European and African Countries. interviewed most of their top leaders. and wrote more than 200 maga;ine articles on the political. economic and military problems of Europe and the Atlantic Alliance. K Ieiman became a member of the :'-Jew York limes editorial hoard in l9oJ In that capacity. he visits Washington frequently, Europe annually. and has made repeated visits to the Soviet Union and the l\ar East. Kleiman won the Alicia Patterson f-oundation f-ellowship Award in 1972 lor his editorials and op-ed columns. Kleiman \Atlantic rs the author of Crisis- American Diplomaq.: Confronts a ::\' Resmrgent Furopc,\ and a co- \' author of \\AIO in ()ucst of Cohesion.\ Garry \ViH~. traJHcd as a classicist, write~ a ~vndicated colum11 for l'ni\t:r~<il Press Syndicate at1d 1~ a freLJuent contributor to the :\cw York Review ol Book~. lk i~ the author of the critical!\ acclaimed \\'ixon Agoniste;.,\ a ~hronicle of Richard \ixon\ nse te the Presidency .. and \Bare Ruined Choirs.\ Wills taught classics at Johns Hopkin:-. from 1962 to l90lJ, and in 1971 was a Regent!-.' Lecturer at the University ol California. In the fall of Jl)75. he was the Christian Gauss Lect urcr at .5 Princeton llniversitv. He was a :a contributing editor. to Esquire § magazine from 1967 to 1970. ~ Other hooks by Wills include ·e \The Second Civil War.\ \Jack £ Ruby,\ \Roman Culture.\ ~ %/ \Politics and Catholic Freedom,\ '§. flp¥% and \Chesterton.\ Both Kleiman and Wills are teaching courses at Union CoUegc this year. As a part-time faculty member. Kleima[i} wiH be teaching • seminar in foreign affairs. Wills, on the other hand. is the college's first Washington Irving Professor of Modern Literary and Historical Studies. He is teaching a seminar in theories of political election, as well as delivering a series of weekly lectures on the Declaration of Independence. Mike Ganz, vice president of the student body. Their discussion Monday is part of the \Debate '76\ series sponsored by the Union College Political Science Department and is expected to reflect the varying political philosophies of the two journalists. Forum Unanimously Pro NAT Robert Kleiman started his journalism career in 1939 as a reporter for the Washington Post. AD HOC COMMITTEE- TENURE OF PROf'. Bl;TTERSTEIN rhe Provost has appointed an ad hoc committee to evaluate the tenurahility of Assistant Professor George M. Butterstein of the Department of Biological Sciences. Persons who are able to contribute to the committee's investigation are invited to submit statements or give their names to the chairman, E. J. Craig, Department of Electrical Engineering and Computer Science, Steinmet7 Hall. Last Thursday in Fox Lounge, the Student Forum met to discuss .several issues. The primary item on the agenda was the Forum's discussion of the Non-Academic Transcript. This major proposal will be on the All-College Senate agenda at its first meeting Nov. 4th. Before discussion ensued on the Non-Academic Transcript, Gary Hipp and Rob Davis, representing Saga Food Service appeared before the Forum. The Saga representatives werecriticized for rising prices in Hale House and the Rathskellar. H ipp defended rising prices in Hale as economically necessary and said the Skellar policy of bigger sandwiches but less items was the best way to run the Skellar. After a long rambling discussion. both Hipp and Davis consented to thinking about lowering prices in the Skellar. Hipp did propose one unique idea of turning the Skellar into a \Pizza Hut\ operation and Hale House into a fast food outlet. The matter is \under consideration\ and any decision would be reported to Forum for its approval, said Hipp. After the Saga representatives left. the Forum turned to discussion of the Non-Academic Transcript where members of the Forum questioned Matt Brief and Andy Koblenz, two members of the Senate Committee on the Non-Academic Transcript. Specifically, the implementation process and the question of its possible coercive effects on students to part1c1pate in extracurricular activities was at issue. Koblenz and Brief explained that the transcript would bring faculty Advisor and student together. in addition to fostering a climate of contribution at Union. The 15 Forum members present agreed and voted unanimously to endorse the Non- Academic Transcript. This may mean that all ten student votes will be cast in favor of the proposal at the Senate meeting tomorrow. Thirteen votes total will be enough to pass the Non- Academic proposal. With the major item on the agenda out of the way, Forum turned to a minor item. Mike Ganz, Vice-President and Chairman of Committee on Committees noted that several clubs' constitutions were missing from Mrs. Marra's office. These missing Constitutions would have to be rewritten. At this point, President Trump adjourned the meeting. The next Student Forum meeting will be Thurs., Nov. lith at 8:00. All meetings are open and students are urged to attend. Union in the SO's: Sneak Preview Everyone who lives or works on the campus knows that we are near the bursting point as lar as automobiles are concerned. Clearly some kind of orderly planning must replace the casual policy of recent years if we are to preserve a desirahlc campus environment. and at the same time provide people with safe and reasonably convenient movement to and about the campus. With this issue in mind. the College has commis_sioned a study --...... by professionals of its roadways. its parking problems. and the question of where future huildings should be located. !his study is now completed and is availahle for judgment and suggestions b) all memhers ol the Union community. Copies ol the complete report are available at the reserve desk. Its main goals may be summarited as follows: l. Providing plans for coping with automobiles and yet maintaining the beauty of the Union College- a peek at the Future campus. 4. To antiCipate where new 2. ·1 o grve more attention to buildings such as those for Arts safety. thinking here ol keeping and ;\•hlctics might hest be fire lanes open as well as making locateo. the college ground;, 'aler for the With only one hundred acres, many who walk about the campus there is obviously not enough all hours ol the day and night. space to make everyone happy. lt Included are nev. entrancl' to the then becomes a matter for hard campw.. , decision and intelligent 3. In make lor a more compromrse. I he attached attractive space around Old Ciym drawing summari;es our to the end that applicants lor consultant's recommendations. It admission will have a better first is a schematic design and not to impression of the College. be viewed with a measuring tape in mind. I he suggested Arts huilding. for example. is drawn in with no intention that this will he either ib final ,hapc or site, hut to indicate that this is probahly the most likely locution when we can affort it. Contrary to the drawing. it v.ill intrude littk upon the (iarden. I he !-otHU) j, to '~:ne l !nion onl:- a'> a guide !or gro\\th. I he Carnpu' Planrung Board. which i' made up ol laeult). 'taiL and student,, v.ill welcome am '>llgge'>tion:-. that llll'tnocr:-. of th~ college community may l'a rc to make. It you would like to comment. plt:ase put :-our reaction:-. in \Hiting and 'end them to me. or tu student repre,entatiH·. Ke\ Jtl Schar) ( Hox 724}. We hope law tn sd1cdulc Ot1l' or mure open tlll'eting:-. for l'Xplallling the man) detaib t)l tht: plan and ltll hringing together C< lll'>t rt!Cll\ e sugge'>tlt HI'>. C.W. fluntlc), lor the (·am pus Plannmg Board JANUARY SEMINAR IN INDIA The Lisle f-ellowship. Inc. will spomor a three-week work and study semmar in India from January 3-23, 1977. Since 1936. The Lisle f-ellowship's programs in international human relations have helped promote peace and understanding for peoples in 91 nations. \The seminar is designed for both students and others who arc intt\rested in exploring alternative approaches in the fields of education and rural development on the subcontinent. It is an unusual opportunity for intercultural and intergroup experiences,\ said Lisle's International Co-Directors, Dr. DeWitt and Edna Haldwin. ' Highlights of the semmar include: Orientation in the capitaL :\ew Delhi. at the Gandhi Peace Foundation where guest speakers will lead discussion groups on cross-cultural themes and issues relating to education and rural de\ elopment. Field trip to live and work in a rural tri hal area where community hJs years working I ,000 villages. Iota! cost hoard, fees transportation travel to and City) is $1100. a social action spent the last 25 with peoples in (including room, for tours, land but excluding from \few York The India Seminar is open to the first 15 persons who apply. f-or an application and further information. please write, India Seminar. c o Lisle Fellowship. Inc .. 51 I Meadov. Hall Drive. Rockville. Md. 20X51. or cali301- 424-4I{05. WATSON FELLOWSHIP PROGRAM Last week the Sub-Committee appointed to pick the College's four nominees in ten icwed a short list of candidates and chose the following ~tudents: David H. HOPKI:'-JS to study administrati\l' legal proct'~:-es in Britain and Sv.eden. \1cole .1. :\II·\ ,.\(if- to ~tud) oral tradition and histur~ 1t1 West 1\ t ril'il. Carol children's Britain. I. R.-\:\'D ttl collect :-.ong~ and game~ m I>onna SOCKII.l. to tra\el to Sv.eden to e.\iltlll!le the position ol \~tltllt'tl there ttl athletic~ and 1t1 ~nc1et) 1t1 ,&t'rh:ral. These lnur carHiidate' \\ill nov. make formal application~ to the Watson hntndation. and the r xecuti\ c DJrl't'tor ~~~ the !-oundat1un \\ill \i:-.1t the Camru' early in March, 1'!77. to intenlt'\\ them. I he Foundation's av..ar<.b will be announced ahout the beginning nl :\pnl. I lm :-car 176 candidatt-s I rom 50 dJ!lcrent mstttutwm will be compctmg Ill!' 70 l·ellowships.

Page4 CONCORDJENSJS, W~dnes(iay, NJ.v. 3, 1976 culture \Dracula\ will be presented in the Nott Memorial on Saturday at 7:30 \Peer Gy,nt\ Coming Soon by CHERYL PARKER ... Tickets for Peer Gynt by Hen:rik Ibsen will be on sale daily from 1~5 p.m. in the NoH Memorial Theatre Box Office. Tickets must be purchased in person. No phone reservations will be accepled. Tickets are $.75 for Union students, $1.00 for faculty. Performances wm be November 12, 13, 14, 17, 18, )9, 20 at 8:00 p.m. Fo:r ticket information please call 370-6153- during box office hours. Lighting is a very important element of any ptay, and, in Peer Gynt, Peter Crame~· innovative lighting should prove no exception. :Peter, a junior CompUter Science major, attends every rehearsal to obtain ideas for the most advantageous 1,ighting angles possible while wor-king with the actors' interpretations of the different scenes. · In addition to traditional lighting angles, Crames has implemented · some experimental ideas, at the suggestion of DiFector Alan Wyrtroth, such as direct down and cross light·ing which will originate from under the bleachers. No colored lighting gels will be employed. The all white lights will enhance the black. set . and the. stark costumes .. Along with the rest of the show, the ligltting is still evol:ving, and specific light cues won't ·he established until a week before the opening night. DaeDalus Presents ''Dracula\ in Nott This fall, the Theatre Artist's Program has been sponsoring,, Jania Szatanski, a g1,1est costumer who has designed the masks fot Menaecluni in addition to the Peer Gynt costumes. Ms. Szatanski has worked in theatre for seven year~ and in that time has been employed around the country. Jania stressed the importance of remaining mobile in the theater business, as it is not difficult to obtain work if one is willing to move. 1976-77 marks the fifth college tour season for Daedalus Productions of Boston. In the past, Daedalus has presented such diverse and dramatic fare as THE BLOOD KNOT, THE INDIAN WANTS THE BRONX & RATS, DIARY OF A MADMAN, and SYLVIA PLATH. This year the Boston company presents DRACULA. Based on Bram Stoker's original novel, this contemporary theatre translation promises to recreate the intense fear and peculiar fascination of the tale. .. ·DRACULA- The story itself is familiar. Arriving on a ship of blood!-drained corpses, the pale nobleman comes to England. He is set on trapping the perfect prey: a doctor and his beautiful daughter. But among their friends stands the one man whose will equals Dracula's: the one man capable of his destruction. The play's climactic events depict the chilling conflict between Dracula and the scientist Van Helsing, a battle which ultimately end in the vampire's torturous death. Daedalus has avoided the out- dated stage conventions of earlier productions and the commercial parodies of the more recent past. Through the use of mime, masks, special sound, and magical actor transformations, this · new DRACULA evokes the primitive power of the novel - that confrontation between known and unknown, between mind and myth - as weii as the delightful shudders and defensive laughter that accompanied our first exposure to the thirsty count and tJ\ie mortals terrorized by his afmost i invincible powers. Faithful in story and spirit to its source, innovative in its staging, Daedalus' production of DRACULA weaves nightmare, superstition, and legend into a fresh retelling of a classic. A Talented Cast Stephen. Guntli takes the title role in DRACULA. A graduate of Cornell University's Master-of- Fine-Arts Theatre program, Mr. Guntli made his professional stage debut with the Ithaca Repertory Company where he displayed his flexible dramatic range with roles in such diverse plays as THE SEAGULL, SEE HOW THEY RUN,. and THE COUNTRY WIFE. A Boston resident, he has studied and performed with that city's National Mime Theatre. His last stage appearance was in the American premiere of Arthur. Kopit's SING TO ME THROUGH OPEN WINDOWS. Robert Jacobson plays Dracula's to-the-death adversary, Dr. Abraham Van Helsing. Mr. Jacobson received his theatre training at the Loretto Hilton Repertory Theatre where. he appeared in MAJOR BARBARA, MUCH ADO ABOUT NOTHING, and OTHELLO. Since then he has worked at The Green Mountain Guild, Boston University Summer Theatre, and Harvard's Loeb Drama Center where he turned in a highly praised portrayal of Lennie in OF MICE AND MEN. His' most recent national tour found Mr. Jacobson featured in SATURDAY, N AT ........,_. liCKEJS Daedalus' double bill THE INDIAN WANTS THE BRONX and RATS. Karen Ross is Lucy ·seward, Dracula's prime victim. In 1975 Miss Ross graduated from the Theatre Division of Boston University's School for the Arts. During the course of her studies, she appeared in productions directed by Obie Award winning Maxine Klein and David Wheeler, head of The Theatr-e Company of Boston. Her professional credits include important roles in GHOSTS, HEDDA. GABLER, and MEASURE FOR MEASURE, aU for Boston companies. . J\he part of the sceptical psychiatrist, Lucy's father Dr. John Seward, is played by David Watson. Mr. Watson began his theatre career in Alabama as an acter in a professional children's theatre company. While a student at the University of Deleware, he showcased his talents in that scheol's Summer Arts Festival prod.uctions of MOtHER COURAGE and THE IMAGINARY INVALID. This past spring Mr. Watson performed as a zanni in the acclaimed Boston production of TALES OF OLD MOTHER GOOSE. William Welch porttays Jonathan Harker, unwitting .accomplice to Dracula's eviL Although · only in his mid- twenties, Mr. Welch has already carved out a considerable acting career. He has appeared in THE DEVIL'S DISCIPLE and DEATH OF A SALESMAN for the American Stage Festival, T ARTUFFE for the Picadilly Playhouse, GROUNDZERO,and STAINED GLASS for Boston's Playwright's P.latform, and LOVERS for the guest artist program at Emmanuel College. During the 1974-75 season, he played eleven different radio voices in a national tour of the old air waves thriller THE SHADOW. The costumes Jania has designed are variations on the basic theme of skirts, slacks, and tops. The only colors being utilized are black, gray and white with perhaps a touch of deep maroon. These colors are being used to create a line drawing on the stage by placing the blocks of color at different positions on the ~et. The play is being done ensemble which makeS' it easy to group people into various color patterns and situations which will create varying moods. The actors have chosen the costumes in which they felt most comfortable. The costumes may be an aid in illuminating the various moods of a character especially where there is mote than one person cast in a particular role. Thursday Night Dead No stage make•up will be used, as this would be contradictory to the \basic\ theme of the play. The set consists of four Fight isosceles triangles which are sheils of welded tubes with a single black surface. The triangles have been built to be moveable in order to allow the ensemble to create new objects throUgh which they can move. One of the performets aims is to learn ·how these pieces may be moved efficiently and noiselessly. Dead from Schenectady, it's Thursday Night! Two of the most popular Cabaret shows in the history of Union College have been two parodies of popular shows, \Let's Make a Deal\ and •The Dating Game.\ They were vulgar~ outrageous and without redeeming social importance, and each was sold out within minutes. Now, in the tradition of these two offences of the general public, the Not Ready for Prirne Beef Players in association with the Radio Acrobats are less than proud,, in fact downright embarrassed, to tell you of the newest in par~dies, Thursday N ighf Dead. Thursday Night Dead is the brainchild, stillborn, of four very anonymous men, Les Gofdstein, Matt Brief, bavid Moskowitz and Joe Millett, who blackmailed the editors into getting their names printed in this yellow journalism rag they call a school newspaper. They locked themselves in Briefs West College room with nothing. but pencils and paper, and they have been turning- out page after page of condom commercials, homosexual detective stories, plagiarism, satire and splashy musical numbers that would make Busby aerkley blush with embarrassment. Naturally, you don't expect them to get up on stage and do it aU themselves. They'd be killed by the itate victims of thelr stinging barbs. Thev want voi.l to do it. (But they'll help,) Interested'! Well, whether you are or not, you're doing it. You'd better get in touch with any of these guys soon, because the thing goes up January 20, and you don't want to get up on that stage totally unprepared; un.less you want to swallow flung peanuts And if you see the Gay Lora Gaylord, inform him that Sherlock Homo is coming to the rescue. Director Wynroth and his. cast encourage anyone to attend . rehearsals for Peer Gynt, which are ht<_ld each Week night from g..,n p.m. in the Nott Memorial. WRUC 90. 9 fin * s te r e o SATURDAY, NOVEMBER 6: Union Football vs. Middlc~bury - game broadcast begins at. 1:25 p.m. New comedy- on WRUC - The Nott-Wi~s starring the Not Ready for Air Time Players- Thi\ week's special . guest, James Carter. the laughs .begin at 8 pm. SUNDAY, NOVEMBER 7: The Sunday Special Special Guest to be This Directj doors with t Mena. perforr this re' pcrlo~r anticip; its fi ortrag• interprc lechery. fixatior this pa.1 Thou that of words i modern Freshm; of Profc the vul profoun call rna:: depict ca ugh1 simultan to unde drive hi eternal t once ag ., show. l ambiguo Menaecf laughed Menaecll con'tact , Undot could be construe audience. embrace without wine a parasites course, tb in comec home hap are reur assurance drive us operating It was · watch the therr char Charles m·asks anc few props set kept a performer: Impofta add it ion rnterpreta productior: Bob Wh (

lJONCO.RDIENSfS, Wednesday,. Nov. 3, [97Q . Page5 arts ' ' ' . • ' ' . . . ' . 1:3 . culture . ' . •· ''Menaechmi'' Opens This past Friday evening the Directors Lab Theater opened its doors to greater Union College with the opening of The Twin Menaechmi. Though fir.st performed over two millenia ago, this revival in the ·college'& newst perfor-mance space lived up to its anticipated comic ·effects before its first audience. In an ortrageo us ly co iltem po rary interpretation, lust, opportunism, lechery, insanity, and even anal fixat·ion were touched upon in this parodistic laughfest. Severa:! of the performers were trying their hands at such roles for the first time, Therefore, the develOflment of a method of working through acting problems was stressed by the director, Professor Smith. The fruits of this educational app.roac:h were manifest in several individual performances. Deserving . of special mention is Tom McGovern whose characterization of Messeriio indicated some outstanding work. ThotJ.gh Plautus' world was that of pre-Christian Rome, his words pl'ovided for a forcefully modem adaptation by the .zany Freshman cast under the direction of Professor Barry Smith. It was the vulnerable, l:mmorous, and profoundly confused creature ·we call rnan that Plautus--sought to depict in Menaechmi, a being caught in many· roles simultaneousJy jind often' vnaqle to understand the forces which drive him forward. It was this eternal human being that surfaced once again in Friday's opening Finally, if t-he large turnout at the Menaechmi performances are indicative of a strong interest in live th~ater at Union, the Culture Editors encourage the stu(jents of Vnion College to keep abreast of upcoming events by checking the Culture 1 Arts pages of Concordiensis each week. The infamous enema scene in the highly successful \Twin Menaechmi\ - Director~s ·Lab Theatre Revisited ., show. Tile audience, from the ambiguou~ prologue through Menaechmus' climactic enema, It laughed at the absurdity in Menaechmi which we come in con'tact with each day. Undoubtedly, Menaechmi could be characterized as a tease, constructed to titillate its audience~ It was tempting to em brae!! . this ~llusion of slapstick without pain where the heroes wine and wench while the parasite suffers his just dessert .. Of course, thi.s is the appeal inherent in comedy. Everyone can go home happy after the Menaechmi are · reunited, secure in the' assurance that the forces which drive us forward are, indeed, operating i~ttlan's best interests. . . . · It was thoroughly enjoyable to watch the actors ad lib and fill in their characters behind Professor Charles Steckler's elaborate m·asks and costumes. The use of few props and skeletal lights< and set kept attention focused on the performers. lmpor~ant , to remember m addition to any artistic i·nterpretation is that this production was a Freshman play. • The history of the Directors' Laboratory Theatre is complex. It began as an idea two summers ago and. was created by three peo·ple; Arts Department Professor Barry Smith and senior Directing majors Steve Solomon and Joseph Millett. These students had expressed a concern over the lack of theatre space and overcrowding in the --Nott Memorial, the only theatre on the campus at that time. · Also at that ·time the· Mountebanks had a room in the Student Center that had fallen' into disuse. . Several years beforehand a lnask making program had flourished, led by Bill Brender (class of 1973). However, the room had been vacant sin.ce Brender's graduation and the program had collapsed. The room had become a store room for equipment and small props. Professor Smith suggested to Solomon and Millett that the room could be gutted, repainted and, using simple and inexpensive equipment, could be turned, into an intima:te experimental theatre with a seating capacity of about seventy-five. Construction on the room began in early September of 1975. Solomon and Millett worked alone for about a week and a half. Although there were plans fot hiring a guest director for that space, no one had been approached. Finally, at the beginning of the third week, Ryland Merkey of the American Academy of the Dramatic Arts had been hired out of the budget of the new Theatre Artists Program (lAP) from ·the Mountebanks. He would be directing Lanford Wilson's Rimers -of Eldritch. With a cast of fifteen to help, the room, which was located next to· the Pub area, was finish~d in one weekend' , Rimers of Eldritch was the first of many experimental preductions in the DLT (an acronym much given to satirization) -that year. Among the many successes were The Elepllant Calf, This Property Is Condemned and Herbert the 'Third. Last spring the Mountebanks made plans to produce the Freshman Play, The Twin Menaechmi, in the DLT to lighten the technical load on the production. However, last spring a trustee donated $2,000 to establish a crafts center. It was decided that the center would be located in the room occupied by the DLT. Craig Carlson, Director of Student Affairs, approached the Mountebanks with several alternate spaces, and the· present DL T room was mutually acceptable. The problem arose of how to Bob White, country singer and guitarist, will be appearing at the Union College Coffeehouse this coming Friday, November 5, at 8:30p.m. Admission is 75q: renovate the new DL T. The job of turning several small rooms into one big one was much to mammoth a job for one or two part time volunteers. At the end of last spring term five students, Joseph Millett, Dave Mulligan, Marshall Wisoff, Andrew Koblenz and Blair Reischer, approached Arts Professor Charles Steckler with a plan. They would work on this project for the entire summer and receive payment. The college made all the necessary financial arrangements~ and Cunegie room 205 became the new Directors J..aboratory Theatre. The Freshman Play. The Twin Menaechmi~ has proved the value of the DL T, but the Mountebanks are not content with resting on their proverbial laurels. Plans for a winter term musical comedy are already in the works for the DLT (possibilities include \A Funny Thing Happened on the Way to the Forum,\ \Company\,. \GoQ.spelf' and \Charlie Brown\). Spring term will feature workshops by up and coming student directors. The J)L T has proved itseif to be ali vi! and well and living in the Student Center. • FANTASY Sometimes I like to pretend I'm a cat, to forget the mountain of duties waiting and I not equal ... With wise green eyes I gaze, unperturbed, on the world. I stretch, I curl, I purr and rest content in my armor of fur. I need only (if the mood strike) chase my own ta_il and if by chance that should fail to please I may sleep and sleep, warm and deep, at my languid ease. Area college poe.ts will read their work at a Poetry Symposium on Sunday, Nov. 7, at the Little Theatre of the Performing Arts Center at SUNY at Albany. The program, which begins at 2 p.m., is part of the Arts Festival being held at SUNYA next weekend and anyone is welcome to attend. Send your poems for publication in Fine Lines to Box 1738 in, the mail room. Poems will be printed unsigned if requested. Questions and comments also welcome. We want to hear from you! FACULTY -STAFF TALENT SHOW La baret Benefit Union College Child Care Center Thurs., Nov. 11 . Shows at ~ and 11; $2. : admission. Singing and instrumental -music. . Also guitar and poetry reading. · STARRING: Charlie Tidmarcb Ed Craig John Sollazzo , David Mendelowitz Susanna Miller Bob Wells ~ Paul LeClerc Joe Zolner Tom Galantowicz Come join us at either 9 or· 11 • Support the Day Carl! Center.

Page6 ~ONCORDI£NSI$,_ Wedne.sday, Nov. 3, 1976 EDITORIALS. Reply ln the October 27 issue of Concordiensis we published an abridged version of a partial and preliminary draft of the report of the Task Force on Athletics. Less than twenty-four hours after the pUblication President Bonner composed a letter and had copies of it inserted in the mailboxes of all members of the college community. In this letter the President expressed his \deepest regrets\ that Concordy printed the draft. He cited that \the document as released' (was) unfair to members of the Task For.ce,\ and he called for an apology by this newspaper. We disagree with the President but do not wish to turn this disagreement into a long-running feud; te do so would be both childish and counter-productive to otlr aims. However, as an independent newspaper, we do .feel that we should clarify our position and respond to President Bonner's unprecedented action. Union College's future priorities with respect to athletics have been the biggest issue on campus for some time now. The finished Task Force report has been long awaited by the campus community as a definitive statement on Union's future policies. The Feport was supposed to have been completed by September 1st of this year. Its progress has been delayed for various rea~(ms, and suspense over its anticipated recommendation has mounted steadily. Many rumors and unfounded speculations concerning the contents of the finished report have been circulating around the schooL As Milton put it, \Suspense in news is torture,\ and the campus has been tortured for a long time by this issue. Union is becoming decisively split into two factions - those who favor athletic expansion and those who fear a decline in academic standards which might result from that ex,pansion. When a copy of the first draft of the A TF report came into our possession we saw publication as a perfect opportunity -to lessen, not exacerbate, the polarization which has been taking place. The President has questioned our motive for publishing the draft. Obviously it was not the desire to cause sensationalism; there is certainly nothing in the draft which can be called sensational. Our motive was simply to educate the campus. One may disagree with our intentions but a truth told, no matter what the intent, is more valuable than any lies that can be invented. In his letter Pres. Bonner scores us on three points. Point one is \the possible loss of confidence by members of the Task Force in the privacy .of their duscussions and communications as a result of the release of the repert.\ Security is and has always been a problem faced by any committee which conducts private meetings on any subject. It is a well-known axiom that the press lives by disclosures and we feel, of course, that our disclosure will be beneficial to the campus. However, in a distussion with Concordy, the President casually assumed that the party who \leaked\ the rough <!raft to the newspaper must have been a student (implying that student committee· members cannot be trusted with confidential information.). We deplore this prejudicial attitude which is both ridiculous and intolerable. . ·• · ' ·· · President Bonner also implies that \standards of responsible behavior\ have been broken. We assert that Concordiensis has performed in the proudest traditions of good, sound journalism by publishing an objective and unbiased abridgement of the preliminary draft. We have acted in anything but an irresponsible manner. President Bonner's second criticism is that \the document as released is misleading and unfair\ because the draft is only a preliminary one. We realized this and went out of our way, to point of redundancy, to stress that the report as presented was neither final nor complete. In fact, in no less than eitht separate places (including a huge headline) did we emphasize the fact the document was \a first draft,\ ''a preliminary draft;' and so forth. The President urges, \in the strongest possible way that no constituency of the College use the Concordiensis document as a basis for discussing anything related to future athletic policy.\ to quote from our own introduction to the ATF draft, \We ask the campus community to remember that this is a draft, not a final report... Please read and be educated ... Do not over-react, do not jump to conclusions.\ The third section of President Bonner's letter states the President's \hope for a Concordiensis apology\ to the campus community. We are appalled at this request/ demand which can only be termed ludicrous. The President has told us that his primary eriticism of the publication is that the draft might be received unfavorably by external components of the college (I.E., alumni and re~idents of Schenectady.). We considered this argument before the final decision to print the ATF draft was reached. However, the fact that the President raises this question as the primary consideration involved is simply unbelievable. Concordy is an independent school newspaper which is funded solely by Student Tax fees. Although we always strive to work in harmony with all components of the college community, we must be free to disagree with any of the College's components if and when that becomes necessary. We are funded by the students and must be ultimately accountable to them only. No matter what the cost, we must act in the best interests of the student body at all times. The uncalled-for attempt by President Bonner to censure Concordy . is tantamount to his trying to strip the paper of its freedom and trim it into a censored, controlled medium. The spirit of freedom and the spirit of truth are the pillars of Western society and they must be maintained. On the question of journalistic freedom we tum not only to the First Amendment, but to the words of Albert Camus. Said Cilmus, \A free ptess can of course be good or bad, but, most certainly, without freedom 'it will never be anything but bad. Freedom is nothing else but a chance to 'be better, whereas enslavement is a certainty of the worse.\ We can only regret President Bonner's \hope\ for an apology. Although we deeply respect Dr. Bonner, we feel.no need to apologize to anyone for responsible journalism. To quote from Walter Lippman, \Responsible journalism is journalism responsible in the last analysis to the editors' own conviction of what, whether interesting or only important, is in the. public interest.\ If we are presented with a similar situation again in the future, we shall surely act in the same manner as we did last week. We shall continue to seek the truth and we are prepared to endure the consequences, ~hatever they may, be.. . ,· ... -Non~A~ad Tra~s;cript Union \expects that you will take active .part in aU the other educational opportunities the College affords - in lectures, com;erts, and films; in student organizations that reflect your own concerns; in athletics and dramatics and art and other forms of personal expression. Education at Union is not a pn~duct ·that comes neatly packaged in textbooks, lectures, and courses.\ (from a p.rospectus,. entitled \Union College,\ that is sent to all students inquiring about the College.) Union's commitment to the belief that extra-curricular participation is well documented. A student at Union College may expect \·motivation toward active participation in the community outside the classroom\ (Master Plan for Union College, l976 revision.) The spirit of a non-academic obligation has been accepted as College policy and been approved by the AU-College Senate. We feel that the sincerity of this conviction can be established only by the Senate's approval of the n.on-academic trans.cript proposal that comes before the body on •.L... . . 1 ... . .u. . . descended· into a ·name· calling .· ... o.meeoot ug 8-.me . ' sessiell, 'Alth(>'Ugh:• •) •am •not the.· . '': · authoress of Xaviera, I resent cfo the Edit<Jrt:;. · • - ,, )q. the Editors: . . your wild ass~mptit;>ns about the Dear Fraternjti~ ·.of -UniiJn -~·\ · ·· ... '.·'!'. · · ... ,women'at,Umon:Smeewhenhas CoUege: . ·~. , ~' -~!1·;. • As a 1~ 49 . alu~nus Qf Umon femininity been. neatly packaged On Sunday night, J I October Colle~ I .. am wrttlng .to ex.presr;~_ an'klabeled?! :· · '76, 'second fl-odr .of mcntnom,i .my dism~y at an expj:. nence 1 ~ad.. Bot. h yo· •i. and Xaviera ma. ke the I;J· .. o· .h. !l,.· •.. \\e· 1 d<a .. '.s~·\'''\\n·ge· r ... ~,. .••.. .,.:t·· .. ·\\' · the ' tecent Homecomtn'g\ . · · ·· ·. · · ·\'! , · :., · . . . ,..-;•:~ • . · .·. · .\\' \' :u ~ _ ~~\\. . u,,.u · '\'\ i. t\ ·t· . 1 · · th. 27 . . · c· · same cntetal . rmsta.ke. ¥<>u both whtch . one o .. f the ttetrJ.s ·. was a 4es IVl tes. n e .. years Slll e . . · 1 68 . ·A t . .· · · . ·· ·· • . . . • , . gradu~rt 9 !1.:, Homecoming exp~~t pe~?!.M \O ~·~ ~.?tt\4. O, .• Y 0 ~f' ~~rq:tty · coll'IJ)t?,~te.-' It , 'was ·k ··d· ·h m . t & .. d... r· every w. htm a.nd destre. If tbats mtended as a telattvely ltarm.~e. ss ee en as ean a teW ays o .· ·. · · • . ·. · . ·. :blissful reminiscing with my old what yo~ rea~yr ~~nj: 1 . sug~~t prank as can. ~e. seen ... l?.Y- the _fact classmates. The football gatne yo~ try . t e re (. tg . . . . 1S~tct. th ~ that ~ach. frat!!rnltY ~as c()nta(lted always came complete with rea ~orna~ ·or m 1 an . or . a · that thetr composlte . would be . · . 1 . • . . 1 .· f , ?Iatt~r, . extsts on Y tn y~ur returned at a party on Tuesday; 2 .start mg Yo~ng · asses. rom . up unagmatlons. The charactenstiCs N ... · . · l... .· '76· Th' · · • · · North' ieadmg a rambunctious· . · · · · · · .· · . . · . ovemv~r , · 7 · ts was tn .11:o d .h.·;.· •.. d. · . · th.at .you seek .are. · .. n.urely s.u.p.t:;r:i. wa' .. ' dt.re .. cted .. at .c'a , spec.di.c an c eermg crow . . ·. . · . . . .c. · • 1 • . . • \ . · • . s·· 1 f . I·d t.. . f · .. d· ft. cui, sometbtng . whtch , fra.te.r.n.tty, .as . we .acquired evera o my o - une nen s · f . . 1 . ·r- th · · · · . ~rid m self .· were st1t.nned un~ ortunat~ Y typl 1es . • .• e compo~t~es fr~m 12 .of. the 14 h y b th 1 .. k .. f attitudes. of too much of thts fratermtres. Thts seemed to have · otwh ev.er' .... fY . . 1 · et . acd. 0 d generation. You look; for the best offended some fraternity .tp.embers en. ustasm o. a st en crow an t t t k 1 . th sJa ght . 1 d\ 1 d h T . were hard-pressed to di8Cer.n the hmea . . o . t .e i . o . ei • . u \d'·. er as seve~a . tsp aye open' ostlt~y . ~· h .. th ... 11 ·. ou.se. a a1.r:y repu stve 1 ea., towards us. We are· ex.tremel:y ~eason · or sutc apa Y.t• e~pecttafy Another good metaphor is that of disappointed at the negatlve ·1or our own eam on 1 s own ur . h d h 1 · : . · · · · · .· · · · · · · • Th · th . w b . v d n b . t e stu · orse et out to pasture. a,ttttude showed, and hope that m . e apa Y . e 0 ser e ca e As to your reference to the the future, we ·can meet an traf.tced tob ·tthe tcdh,eertlheaders =dh~ car~er interests of women .at ·friendly terms. No harm meartt. o en o s rue ~ . e cro . s Uruon you appea. r -to want S. ly enjoyment of .the game. It seems someo~e . who will be your . ·. mcere . _; .h .. *·• . to me that Umon's football crowd . . . . . . . . . . .. Second floc;tr Ric monel nouse . . . · . ·. · .· . . :bedwarmer and keep her mouth 1s bemg hampere? by chee~- · shut the rest of the time. Take the !eaders . w.ho ·. o~v10usly . aren t opportunity to grow up and learn t'!terested m Jead.mg the team.to . that people are people and sho1,1ld vtctory. They str!ke. me .fiS beu~g be treated as .such with both . . far ~ore . conce~ned Wtth t!t~•r dignity and respect not as 9wn good looks rather. th~n the bree<Jing animals. .. .. yn. the E. d . . t't\\.'\'s· •• performance of the team on the . s·.. . .' .1. v .... field. . . mcere Y • Can a small school with a . We alumni visit old Union but Rhoda Kupfetberg history of fine academies play big- once a year. Being in a f{ome- Class ot\·1 9 8Q time athletics? Let·~ try Davidson- coming crowd that js i:rivelved in Basketball;. Leltish.,.,Wrestling, the team's victm'~ is an experience . To the Editors: Johns H.r:wkins-LaemsSI,}; Cob~ate t? .too~ forward to. Gr~f:e.d,. we . In the wake Qf the.pa.st week'~ and Lafayette~Baseba:ll; to name dtd wm our Homecommg game furor over Xaviera (Hollander or but a few. but w~y not try to eleva~ the otherwise) I would like to e~pt:~~,s . Union's modest reputation has a:lumm. crow~ to a second vtctory my feeti~gs in a letter that will h()t been modes~ too IO.ng. · Prof. ~ a vtcto~ m the stands a$ well remain anonymous. ltis a source tlnder\\fOOd ts concerned about as on the fteld. of dismay for me that sex s~ms Jow SAT. scores bllt has no plan Respectfully, to be so comtiibnty regarded as an·· to .• attta~t bettet· ;students to Edwin J. W~fbrop '49 experience of the b'Qdy and. timon. ··. . . : · . . - xa:viera, again .Jn Response To ,. An Exception t9 . , Your Aceusations~' c/o tbe .f:c(itors: · . Dear Sit! - (and the idea is>ako questionable) I quote your letter: \The gjrls here seem to be basically intro- . vetted, puritanical and incapable of enticing male attraction.\ What kind ·of nonsense ate you talking about'!! This whole issue has neither .of the mind·· :nor of the · ·Prof. Cat;,!_!!~ ts concerned about spirit; a proposition <Jf Jaking cyUeg~ fin,ai).cial d~peod~Jlce .on without . givin$; a quest for ath~IC!i vta. :.tiUinnt supp?rt, yet pleasure free of commitment. has ~tl pl~n ~\ P~:tY the ?Ills and l think we would aJl ben~fit cettamly Insts(s on hettl:g well (rom· trying to get. to know people- pai<J. . : ... ·. . .. before trying to sedtJce· them. A . If the Ja(;)Ulty ~oe& ~ot ll;tve t.he little friend .. making .tnisbt do . t'm~ . ro . . rec~!Jr,t fltgb · q~llty wondets · fot our lo'Ve~makin,g. lf. stu~ents to Union. how can s¢x is indeed a phenomenon of Unmn become more well knQwn? our genitals and not our minds is Who I~ going to . !ell high school not our \loving\ little more than students an(! thetr . parents that fucking? Onion- College in Schenectady is Sincerely. the place to go for a fine Paul z. Siegel, '77 education? . . There is only one ~Little Three., A by M, n al ago. A1 concern student plan _ tc system .. particip Union appreci: but nc specific: out to Howe to crea1 currict.d abate~ 1 Sen~te; on th~ particip a cadet propose in \spir the sp1 commitc which i; and adr \Non to de impl~mf As a Commit us spent devise ! wa~ giv and ad1 came UJ \rton-ac; and Uni( a \Little must bel way tS coll~,:giatt tc;mmamc Qa;Sk-e.~b.a. reality,,-.,E get rid. o ····AND< on.·hock~ an .island York St Colgate.. Division one is l they're h1 It's tin: -entire c athletic; · taking a I limelight. s To the Edi One of the letters of school1 the sttide11 m.issil).g Therefore, this opport what l_bel your. camp Club. \What Circle K C an internati ~ation ded 8ervice. Th involved . il volunteer v and> i-n community types of we have done adopt-a-gra entertainme physically .. run ·blo.,d voter regis out at maj and much: But, Circ organizatiOJ organi:zatio1 picnics, e~u activities~< a

Page6 CONCORDlENSIS, Wednesday, Nov. 3, 1976 EDITORIALS . . : . . . . ~ . '· ~ . ' ,. . . ' .' ' . . . . ' Reply In the October 27 issue of Concordiensis we published an abridged version of a partial and preliminary draft of the report of the Task Force on Athletics. Less than twenty-four hours after the publication President Bonner composed a letter and had copies of it inser~ed in the mailboxes of all members of the college community. In this letter the President expressed his \deepest regrets\ that Concordy printed the draft. He cited that \the document as released (was) unfair to members of the Task f'orce,\ and he called for an apology by this newspaper. We disagree with the President but do not wish to turn this disagreement into a long-running feud; to do so would be both childish and counter-productive to our aims. However, as an independent newspaper, we do feel that we should clarify our position aad respond to President Bonner's unprecedented action. Union College's future priorities with respect to athletics have been the biggest issue on campus for some time now. The finished Task Force report has been long awaited by the campus community as a definitive statement on Union's future policies. The report was sap posed to have been completed by September I st of this year. Its progress has been delayed for various reasons, and suspense over its anticipated recommendation has mounted steadily. Many rumors and unfounded speculations concerning the contents of the finished report have been circulating around the school. As M iltvn put it, \Suspense in aews is torture,\ and the campus has been tortured for a long time by this issue. Union is becoming decisively split into two factions ·- those who favor athletic expansion and those who fear a decline in academic standards which might result from that expansion. When a copy of the first draft of the A TF report came into our possession we saw publication as a perfect opportunity to lessen, not exacerbate, the polarization which has been taking place. The President has questioned our motive for publishing the draft. Obviously it was not the desire to cause sensationalism; there is certainly nothing in the draft which can be called sensational. Our motive was simply to educate the campus. One may disagree with our intentions but a truth told, no matter what the intent, is more valuable than any lies that can be invented. In his letter Pres. Bonner scores us on three points. Point one is \the possible loss of confidence by members of the Task Force in the privacy of their duscussions and communications as a result of the release of the report.\ Security is and has always been a problem faced by any committee which conducts private meetings on any subject. It is a well-known axiom that the press lives by disclosures and we feel, of course, that our disclosure will be beneficial to the campus. However, in a discussion with Concordy, the President casually assumed that the party who \leaked\ the rough draft to the newspaper must have been a student (implying that student committee members cannot be trusted with confidential information.). We deplore this prejudicial attitude which is both ridiculous and intolerable. President Bonner also implies that \standards of responsible behavior\ have been broken. We assert that Concordiensis has performed in the proudest traditions of good, sound journalism by publishing an objective and unbiased abridgement of the preliminary draft. We have acted in anything but an irresponsible manner. President Bonner's second criticism is that \the document as released is misleading and unfair\ because the draft is only a preliminary one. We realized this and went out of our way, to point of redundancy, to stress that the report as presented was neither final nor complete. In fact, in no less than eitht separate places (including a huge headline) did we emphasize the fact the document was \a first draft,\ \a preliminary draft,\ and so forth. The President urges, \in the strongest possible way that no constituency of the College use the Concordiensis document as a basis for discussing anything related to future athletic policy.\ to quote from our own introduction to the A TF draft, \We ask the campus community to remember that this is a draft, not a final report ... Please read and be educated ... Do not over-react, do not jump to conclusions.\ The third section of President Bonner's letter states the President's \hope for a Concordiensis apology\ to the campus community. We are appalled at this request/demand which can only be termed ludicrous. The President has told us that his primary criticism of the publication is that the draft might be received unfavorably by external components of the college (I.E., alumni and residents of Schenectady.). We considered this argument before the final decision to print the ATF draft was reached. However, the fact that the President raises this question as the primary consideration involved is simply unbelievable. Concordy is an independent school newspaper which is funded solely by Student Tax fees. Although we always strive to work in harmony with all components of the college community, we must be free to disagree with any of the College's components if and when that becomes necessary. We are funded by the students and must be ultimately accountable to them only. No matter what the cost. we must act in the best interests of the student body at all times. The uncalled-for attempt by President Bonner to censure Concordy is tantamount to his trying to strip the paper of its freedom and trim it into a censored, controlled medium. The spirit of freedom and the spirit of truth are the pillars of Western society and they must be maintained. On the question of journalistic freedom we turn not only to the First Amendment, but to the words of Albert Camus. Said Camus, \A free press can of course be good or bad, but, most certainly, without freedom it will never be anything but bad. Freedom is nothing else but a chance to 'be better, whereas enslavement is a certainty of the worse.\ We can only regret President Bonner's \hope\ for an apology. Although we deeply respect Dr. Bonner, we feel no need to apologize to anyone for responsible journalism. To quote from Walter Lippman, \Responsible journalism is journalism responsible in the last analysis to the editors' own conviction of what, whether interesting or only important, is in the public interest.\ If we are presented with a similar situation again in the future, we shall surely act in the same manner as we did last week. We shall continue to seek the truth and we are prepared to endure the consequences, whatever they may be. Non-Acad Tra,nscr:ipt Union \expects that y0u will take active part in all the other educational opportunities the College affords - in lectures, coacerts, and fiilms; in student o:rganizations that reflect your own coflcerns; in athletics and dramatics and art and other forms of personal expression. Education at Uuion is not a product that comes neatly packaged in textbooks, lectures, aad courses.\ (from a pwspect us, entitled \UIIion College,\ that is sent to aU students inquiring about the CoNege.) Union's commitment to the belief that extra-curricular participation is well documented. A student at Union College may expect \motivation toward active participation in the community outside the classroom\ (Master Plan for Union College, 1976 revision.) The spirit of a non-academic obligation has been accepted as College policy and been approved by the All-College Senate. We feel that the sincerity of this conviction can be established only by the Senate's approval of the non-academic transcript proposal that comes before the body on tEllERS · descended into a name calling Jtomeeoming game session. Although I am not the to the Editors: authoress of Xaviera, I resent your wild assumptions about the women at Union. Since when has As a I 949 alumnus of Union C 11 I . . . . . femininity been neatly packaged 0 ege am wntmg to express d 1 b 1 d?l d . . 1 h d _ an a e e .. my 1smay at an exp~nence .a . Both you and Xaviera make the at . ~~e recent Homecorr.ung same crucial mistake. You both festiVttles. In. the 27 years st~ce expect people to respond to your my graduatiOn, · Homecommg every whim and desire. If that's w.eekend ha~ ?Ie.ant a ~ew days of what you really want, I suggest bhssful remmtscmg With my old you try the red light district. The classmates. The football ga~Ie real woman (or man for that alwa~s came complete \';lth matter) exists only in your starth?g Y 0 l!ng lasses from . up imaginations. The characteristics North ie~dmg a rambunctious that you seek are purely super- and cheermg crowd. . . ficial, something which Several of my old-time fnends unfortunately typifies the and myself were stunned, attitudes of too much of this howev_er. by .the lack of generation. You look for the best enthusiasm of a s1lent c.rowd and meat to take to the slaughter were hard-pressed to dtscer.n. the house, a fairly repulsive idea. reason for such apathy, especially Another good metaphor is that of for our own team on tts own turf. the stud horse let out to pasture. The apathy we observed can be As to your reference to the traced to the cheerleaders wh~.> career interests of women at of~en obstructed the crowds Union, you appear to want enJoyment of .the, game. It seems someone who will be your !o me .that Umon s football crowd bedwarmer and keep her mouth IS bemg hampere~ by cheer- shut the rest of the time. Take the ~eaders w.ho of;lvtously aren't opportunity to grow up and learn I~terested m lea~mg the team. to that people are people and should VIctory. They str~ke me .as bem.g ' be treated as such with both far more concerned w1th t_!le1r di nit and res ect not as own 'good looks' rather than the br~edfng animals. p performance of the team on the Sincerely, Rlaoda Kupferberg Class of 1980 field .. We alumni visit old Union but once a year. Being in a Home- coming crowd that is involved in the team's victory is an experience To the Editors: to look forward to. Granted, we · did win our Homecoming game but why not try to elevate the alumni crowd to a second victory - a victory in the stands as well as on the field. Respectfully, Edwin J. Winthrop '49 xaviera., aJeain Jn Response To\ An Exception to Your Accusations\ c/o the Editors: Dear Sir: - (and the idea is also questionable) I quote your letter: \The girls here seem to be basically intro- verted. puritanical and incapable of enticing male attraction.\ What kind of nonsense are you talking about?! This whole issue has In the wake of the past week's furor over Xaviera (Hollander or otherwise) I wouLd like to express my feelings in a letter that will not remain anonymous. It is a source of dismay for me that sex seems to be so commonly regarded as an experience of the body and neither of the mind nor of the spirit; a proposition of taking without giving; a quest for pleasure free of commitment. I think we would all benefit from 'trying to get to know people before trying to seduce them. A little friend-making might do wonders for our love-making. If sex is indeed a phenomenon of our genitals and not our minds is not our \loving\ little more than fucking? Sincerely, Paul Z. Siegel, '77 sorry cj o The Editors: Dear Fraternities of Union College: On Sunday night, .31 October '76, second floor of Richmond House held a scavenger hunt in which one of the items was a fraternity composite. It was intended as a relatively harmless prank as can be seen by the fact that each fraternity was contacted that their composite would be returned at a party on Tuesday, 2 November '76. This was in no way directed at a specific fraternity, as we acquired composites from 12 of the 14 fraternities. This seemed to have offended some fraternity members as several displayed open hostility towards us. We are extremely disappointed at the negative attitude showed, and hope that in the future, we can meet on friendly terms. No harm meant. Sincerely, Second Door Richmond House sports\ role To the Editors: Can a small school· with a history of fine academics play big- time athletics? Let's try Davidson- Basketball, Lehigh-Wrestling, Johns H~pkins-Lacrosse. Colgate and Lafayette-Baseball; to name but a few. Union's modest reputation has been modest too long. Prof. Underwood is concerned about low SAT scores but has no plan to attract better students to l)nion. Prof. Carlile is concerned about college financial dependence on athletics via alumni support, yet has no plan· to pay the bills and certainly insists on being well paid. If the faculty does not have the time to recruit high quality students to Union, how can Union become more well known? Who is going to tell high school students and their parents that Union College in Schenectady is the place to go for a fine education.? There is only one \Little Three\ A by l\1 It a age. ) concer studen plan system .partici Unio1 apprec but r specifi~ out to Ho~ to ere; currict abate. Senate on tl particiJ acade propos in \spi the SJ commi which and ad \Non-1 to d irnplerr As ; Comm us sper devise was gi and a< came 1 \non-a1 and Un a \Littl must bt way 11 collegial touman baskeH>o reality .. get rid ' ·AND on hod an islan York ~ Colgate, Division one is they're I It's ti1 entire athletic; taking a limelight To theE~ One of the Letter of school the stude missing Therefore. this oppo1 what I bt your cam1 Club. \What Circle K ( an interna zation de service. T involved volunteer and u1 communit types of w have don adopt-a-gr entertaina physically run bloo< voter regi out at ml and much But, Cir organizati4 organizati4 picnics, c~ activities~

CONCORDlENS18, ··Wednesday, Nov, ~~ 1976 f'age 7 ·, A Chitn~ce Fo;,,' Innovation by MAtt <BRIEF - It all started over two year:s ago. Amidst cries of apathy and concern on campus, ·a group of students and faculty ·devised a, plan _to overhaul the advisory system,. and· make «community participation;' a requirement at Un.ion. Almost everyo.ne appreciated the spirit of the idea, but no one agreed with its specifics and the proposal. Was put out to pasture. However,. the desire for Union to create a -climate where e~tra­ curricular participation did not abate~ Last year in the AU-C:allege Senate,. discussion again e!J-sued on the idea of community :participation. The Tdea -of·a non-. academic .transcript was proposed, igain it was agreed to ifi \spirit\ bot·· faculty griped on the specifics, Su-bsequently~ a commitee was formed of senators which included .students, faculty, and administrators to draw up a \Nan Transcript'' and to devise a process of implementation. As a member of the Senate Committee, ·r can say that most of us spent many meetings trying to devise such a \transcript. .Input wa:; given by students, faculty, and administrators. Finally, we came up with the concept· of ·-a \non-academic transcript.\ The ....:: . final product is merely this. a to ·professional · -or graduate statement ·of contributions to sch-ools-, but also those who Union written by a third term co·nsider ext ra·-~curticular junior; or a first tetm l!enior that activities intrinsic to a college is attached to a student's experience. It thus may become a academic ttansctipt and, foll-ows it .valuable. recruiting tool, and· what to wherever it may go.. The must be stressed is that there is no statement is .flexible and open official campus coercion to ended; it may be. a na-rrative Qf a'- participate. list. It must be signed by the . Then; is no doubt that if the, student's faculty advisor and/or ' Se~ate passes the Non.,.Academic the Dean -of Stwients, Tr~nsctipt proposal tomorrow, In the interim yeats, the student that there will be beneficial effects meets his( her advisor at least on .the cli:l'nate of contribution at once eaeh year to state intentions Umon, the Advisory system, for · participatiQn at Union and student~faculty relations, and extra-curricular contributions. possibly even Admissions. One Hopefully, this will bFing both word of warning must be iss~ed: student and adv.isor closer. lt also if passed, a massive education makes the stUdent conscious of process must begin for incoming the fact that t)nion expects its students. and, ·most importantly, students to be giv:ers,. not takers, f.or the faculty. No one wants to and the givers are critical to the create another Comp. Ed. fiasco life of a small lib~ral arts college with ndes tha! most people like Union. ignOFe~ It will be up to Deans There are several advantages to. Smith and Brownlee and the the non-academic transcript, entire All-College Senate to make Union•will oficiaJly go down as a sure the Non-Academic .college that realizes the Transcript is implemented impo.Ftance- of extra-curricular smoothly and with understanding participathm and . wants to create by all segments- of the college a climate of contribution. The · popu1ace. The Senate has existence of the \Non-Academic approved things in \spirit\ too Transcript\ and the pfeocess itself long; here is finally a chance for will encourage certain tyR_es of innovation in their first meeting students to corne here;. name!} of the year. Let's all hope theY. get those who not only want to go_o!J off to a good sta~. ( and 'union i~ ti~t soing to make it year. These -~conventions are the giving our thorough a \Little Four.\ Btlt we can and social..bighpPinU;.:of~.t:fie year ;a.& the:::motiives 4>e-hhtd···1t1lie;;-<feCi!li:ob~ must become better kll'f>Wri.' One .they· tum out t<> be virtu11Jly To do what they believed way IS high - quaU.ty Inter- continuoUs ' patties, with the rigQ~. in spite of the collegiate Athletics._ Post-stlason _added.·. si<Mine of .. b~ing ,,,an bac:J9a,s,h. to tournat1lents for soccer and administrative and educati0nal· they could easily have exJoectedLJ, ~a~e.~l>aU .should bec.QIUe .: a fu·nction. This past yea~!.s w~t~ _,:s,ur~lY,, -~O~LT_ ~---;;p- 1o.nsj~~ reality.,,Eitb.er improvefeotbalf oi c&1lverttions Were-held in Alban:y, cQtr~ C!')lli:'se. for get rid. of:··it~· ~ N.Y. and Washington, D:C. whil~ · take-. . ···AND OF -GOU,RSE a corr1ment this S!eafs'w!U ~e. itJ: Libe£1y 1 N;).'. :!;-~_,;: .. ~Andy Kubtenz~ · on·hockey. Union College 1s not antf'Kansas City, Mo.' · · · · '' ·--·Chris Tayll)r , · an jsland -in the .middle -of New With -over 800 dubs throughout Student ·-rw<t\''\ York .State, R.P.J., Clarkson, the United States, C3;!Jada, and Colgate., and Bt. Lawrence are all the Caribbean, Cjrcle K has been Diviskm f hockey scb~;~ols and no striving,. in the words of our lnt~r--:. . . _ . one -is- kno¥king the diplomas· national Theme, to Make ·an To the Eclttors: they're handing. out. . ·· ., '· tmpact on ~Lire. But, we ·-need It is an interesting situation- in It's time to take . pride- in: ou:r rno.re. ~ltl,b_~~Prl- rileftd)e.ts.in-'ordet which I. find myself, now ·that a - entire college, academic and1·. to really make an impact ()ti life; series of unfortunate events have athletic; and we- can start by That is why l am calling on you, .b<:curred. conc.erning Union taking a big step :forwar-d into tlie the students of Union College to College students. Desiring. fair limelight. · help Circle K Make an hnpact on treatment to the efforts -of the Jerry Stone . P.O. 503 Sclien<*:tady, N.Y. 12305 ' ei:relek To the Editors: One of the many purposes of the Letters to the Edit(!t column of school newspapers is to make the !>ttidents aware ·of' what is missing on the camp U,s. Therefore, I would like to take this opportunity tO' 1nfurm Y.0-11. of what I ~believe to be missing (}11 your. campus: namely, a-Circle K Club. \What you may ask, \is a Circle K Club?\ Well; Circle K is an international collegiate organi ... zation dedicated . to .community service. This means that we ar:e involved . in rlumetous types of volunteer wurk, both on. campus. and- in the suorr.ounding community. Some <>f tbe v.atjoils types of work that qrcle K Clubs have done- in the vast include adopt-a-grandparent prolfltms, entertainment of :trtenta:H;y an~ . physically .bandicap.ped· children, · run , blood drives, foo'd drives~ voter registration drives, helped- out at major campus functions. and much more. But. Ci·rclek is not just a service orgaJlization. It is also .a social .organization. We have ,parties, pit.:nics, camping trips,. interclub activities~ and . two .conventions a. Life. lf Y,ou wuu1d like to start a Task Force and to the s-tudent club, · or would like more body, l can realize both points of infotmation, please write to: Pete view. Firstly, it is possible that the Hanson, H.-· Gov. Capital .. release of the Sub..cornm. report Hudson ... Division~ NYDCKI, may have cornprqmis~;:d members SUNY Albany, State Quad, Bo:!f. of this group. Seeondly as 1620,. Albany~ N.Y. 12222. students, we should have mo.re. I hope to .. hear from some of knowledge -of proceedings of you soQn. ' . important\ i~sues ~n ca~pus. Sincerely, To the f1rst v~e\:pomt. •. ~n Pete Hanson only reply; that 1t Is my feebng that tational consideration of.the article. should preclude any fea~rs·t• · L. · t f · · · · · · · of compromise. A~, for- .. a.-ou.. . ree press .second, 1 can only support To the Editors: We cannot condone the breach of confiden<:e involved in the release .. of the Athletic Task Force's preliminary subcom-mittee report. We believe it casts a shadow ov~r the effo~s of the Task Fore¢ which they can iH afford in dealing with the controversial athletic issue. CoQcordy .for !ts attempt to keep their readers infQrmed. · · My bopes are extended to all involved, be it hockey players, the students, or the administration, that the end result of this sitUation leaVes us with a feeling of . trust and goodwill towards ea\:b other. · '· Bob Ji~at•y . Yet tb,e editors. of · Station Manager WR Oc Concordienses were cl~arly interested in the welfare of the To the Editors: ~am~us community when they 1 would iike- . tp quo~e the pu~bshed the report •. ~n _ effort opening line of -a recent letter, \l whtch . ~eeks ·to- facthtate the write in dismay and sadness to formulatu:m -?f. well .. reasoned, rrtetrrbers- of the coll-ege fact ... based op•mons _cann~ot . be community\ not about the . whoUy . cun'!em:ned. P~bh~txou unauthorized publication . of the ~ CO~tdent!al lnformatl~n lS an Task r()r¢e on Athletics by tss~e. _tnvolvutg the medta on a Concordiensis; but about the nauo.nal level, and has not yet swift . rebuttal · by P.res.ident ~een. resolved. . Respected _ and Bonner. Jt se.ems it is high time tntelbge~tt peopJe are found on that the ideas, the beliefs, .. and botlt. s1des .<lf the controversy. •trust' of the students be taken· <;erta,tn!y. ment can be found on into consideration. Fs,tr too long enber stde. - _ Tlietefore. we do not hesi~n. Coi.Jtinued on Pilge tO about freshmen a·ttitudes .... FROM TH.E :PR·ESI.DENT'S DES.K'. For tht: past several weeks I have been meeting regularly with • small groups of new students to talk about the College, first impressions of the campus, and other topics of interest. It has been an important learning experience for me to look at Union once more through the eyes of a newcomer. What strikes freshmen most about Union after five weeks is the friendliness of people, the accessibility of faculty and administrators, the advantages of its small size, the rigorous academic demands in comparison with high school, the beauty of the campus, and the general sense of liveliness and excitement about them. Nearly everyone is happy, indeed enthusiastic, about his or her decision to come to Union. When asked about the alternatives they <;onsidered elsewhere, the schools most often mentioned were Rochester, Cornell, Btown, Lehigh, Hamilton, Bucknell, Colgate, a number of Ivy League schools, and the State University of New York. Although in no sense a scientific sampling, it is excellent company for Union College. One outstanding student visited fifteen leading Eastern colleges and took early admission at Union. Another rejected Dartmouth and Cornell to come here. A considerable proportion of those I have met (about eighty) weFe accepted by at least one other highly selective colle~. In asking why they chose Union over other places, a surprising number cited the Accepted Candidates Day of last April as having influenced them favorably. · Not all comments were flattering to the College. Some were concerned about the lack of adequate orientation to the academic demands of the 'College; others cited the food in West College or Hale House; some women were understandably concerned about women's athletics; and several mentioned their surprise at a seeming negative or cynical attitude among upper class students. What has pleased me most is the high interest most students have • had in the College's unique history. A good part of each meeting has been spent in answering questions about campus architecture, Eliphalet Nott, notable alumni, and the special relationship of the College to General Electric. It is. clear that the. distinctive reputation .,. of the College in the 19th century, its radical curriculum changes, and stories of ''Union Worthies\ among the faculty and alumni generate a sense of pride and place in current students. · Finally, nearly every meeting has included some discussion of current issues and priorities. A number commented on the arts facilities and programs and the need they sense for improvement Many share the bafflement of those new to the College at the disproportionate attention and emotion generated by athletic questions. Nearly every new student has had comments to make, both favorable and unfavorable, about our comprehensive education program. But overall the morale and enthusiasm of new students seems extraordinarily high and I can only hope this will continue. The impact of this keen and exciting group of newcomers on the campus, the classroom, and the admissions program should be considerable. I for one feel a strong sense of reassurance about the kind of student currently being admitted to Union College. Editors•in-chief .................................................................. howie lax mike rotondi News editors ............................ , ............. - .' ............................ matt ·brief Contributing editor........................................................ glenn wolfson Feat-ures editor .......................................................... cindy sheppard Culture editor .......................................... marshali wisoff; joe millet Sports editors ........................................................... charlie flanagan allyne price Copveditor .. -................... -- ................................... susan finkelstein Business managers ......................................................... sheryl farber harris halpert Classifieds editor............................... martha rubensteirt .todd miller Subscriptions editor ..................................................... harris hal pert Layout editor, ' ........................ joe cappucio, nancy murphy . Photography editor ...................................................... rich guardian Photo STafL....................... julie seeger, mike kolesa cary feverman steve grill, al tannenbaum, mitch· mind lin jon flescher, fred abbott, joe millett, tony romanazzi Art editor ................................................................... , .. .lester weiss Poetry editor........................................ delanne :stage-man Staff this issue ............................................. joe.ades, lydia fogelman, brad kessler, marjorie kohp,. fran Iorber, marla. lux, karen spar, audrey stein, su~ ctsfrom. barbara stern, eileen thomas nancy feldman, amy perlin, ann illarkowitz. lisa baron Calendar ...................... , .. ,.. .. ...................................... rich berniker CONCORDIENSIS is published every Wednesday by the student body of Union College, Old Gym Hall, Schenedady, New York.; to which Postal Forms 3579 are directed. Publications Office: The JewiSh World Publications, 416 Smith ~t., Schenectady, N.Y. IH05 (370-5483). Entered in the Schenectady Post Office as Second Cli•ss Matter. Subscription R11te 35 cents per copy, Sl 0. a year delivered anywhere in the United States. ·

CONCORDIENSIS, Wednesday, Nov. J. 1976 .Page 7 A Chance Fo1~ Innovation by MATT BRIEF It aU started over two years ago. Amidst cries of apathy and concern on campus, a group of students and faculty devised a plan ~o overhaul the advisory system and make \community participation .. a requirement at Union. Almost everyone appreciated the spirit of the idea, but no oFie agreed with its specifics and the proposal was put out to pasture. However, the desire for Union to create a climate where extra- curricular participation did not abate. Last year in the All-College Senate, discussion again ensued on the idea of community participation. The idea of a non- academic transcript was proposed, again it was agreed to in \spirit'' but faculty griped on the specifics. Subsequently, a commitee was formed of senators which included students, faculty, and administrators to draw up a \Non-Academic Transcript\ and to devise a process of iinplementation. As a Inember of the Senate Committee, I can say that most of us spent many meetings trying to devise such a transcript. Input was given by students, faculty, and administrators. Finally, we came up with the concept of a \non-academic transcript.\ The and Union is not going to make it a \Little Four.\ But we can and must become better known. One way is high quality Inter- collegiate Athletics. Post season tournaments for soccer and basketball should become a reality. Either improve football or get rid of it. ·AND OF COURSE a comment on hockey. Union College is not an island in the middle of New York State. R.P.J., Clarkson, Colgate, and St. Lawrence are all Division l hockey schools and no one is knocking the diplomas they're handing out. It's time to take pride in our entire college, academic and athletic; and we can start by taking a big step forward into the limelight. Jerry Stone P.O. 503 Schenectady, N.Y. 12305 eirele k To the Editors: One of the many purposes of the Letters to the Editor column of school newspapers is to make the students aware of what is missing on the campu.s. Therefore, I would like to take this opportunity to inform you of what I believe to be missing on your campus; namely, a Circle K Club. .. What,\ you may ask, ''is a Circle K Club?\ Well, Circle K is an international collegiate organi- zation dedicated to community service. This means that we are involved in numerous types of volunteer work, both on campus and in the surrounding community. Some of the various types of work that Circle K Clubs have done in the past include adopt-a-grandparent progfiD:ns, entertainment of mentally and physically handicapped children, run blood drives, food drives, voter registration drives, helped out at major campus functions, and much more. But, Circlek is not just a service organization. It is also a social organization. We have parties, picnics, camping trips,. interclub activities~ and two conventions a final product is merely this. a statement of contributions to Union written by a third term junior, or a first term senior that is attached to a s~udent's acadeinic transcript and folluws it to wherever it may go. The statement is flexible and open ended; it may be a narrative or a - list. It must be signed by the student's faculty advisor and/ or the Dean of Students. to professional or graduate schools, but also those who consider extra -·curricular activities intrinsic to a college experience. It thus may become a valuable. recruiting tool, and what must be stressed is that there is no official campus coercion to participate. There is no doubt that if the 'Senace passes the Non-Academic Transcript proposal tomorrow, that there will be beneficial effects on the climate of contribution at U nim'l, the Advisory system, student-faculty relations, and possibly even Admissions. One word of warning must be issued: if passed, a massive education process must begin for incoming students and, most importantly, for the faculty. No one wants to create another Camp. Ed. fiasco with rules tha~ most people ignore. It will be up to Deans Smith and Brownlee and the entire All-College Senate to make In the interim years, the student meets his/ her advisor at least once each year to state intentions for participation at Union and extra-curricular contributions. Hopefully, this will bring both student and advisor closer. It also makes the student conscious of the fact that Union expects its students to be givers, not takers, and the givers are critical to the life of a small liberal arts college like Union. There are several advantages to the non-academic transcript, Union will oficially go down as a college that realizes the importance of extra-curricular participation and wants to create a climate of contribution. The existence of the \Non-Academic Transcript\ and the process itself will encourage certain types of students to come here, name!) those who not only want to go on lETTERS year. These conventions are the social highpoints. of the year as they turn out to be virtuaHy continuous parties, with the added sideline of being an administrative and educational function. This past year's conventions were held in Albany, N.Y. and Washington, D.C. while this y.ear's will be in Liberty, N.Y. and Kansas City, Mo. · With over 800 clubs throughout the United States, Canada, and the Caribbean, Circle K has been sure the Non-Academic Transcript is implemented smoothly and with understanding by alt segments of the college populace. The Senate has approved things in \spirit\ too long; here is finally a chance for innovation in their first meeting of the year. Let's all hope they get off to a good start. gtvmg our thorough approval the motives behind the decisioh To do what they believed right, in spite of the backlash to themselves (which they could easily have expected), was surdy the respons)ble and correct course for the editors to take. Andy Koblenz · Chris Taylor Student Trus1~ees.• striving, in the words of our Inter- national Theme, to Make an To the Editors: Impact on Life. But, we need It is an interesting situation in more clubs and members in order which I find myself, now that a to really make an impact on life. se.ries of unfortunate events have That is why I am calling on you, occurred concerning Union the students of Union College to College students. Desiring fair help Circle K Make an Impact on treatment to the efforts of the Life. If you would like to start a Task Force and to the student club, or would like more body, I can realize both points of information, please write to: Pete view. Firstly, it is possible that the Hanson, Lt. Gov. Capital- release of the Sub-comm. report Hudson Division, NYDCKI, may have compromised members SUNY Albany, State Quad, Box. of this group. Secondly as 1620, Albany, N.Y. 12222. students, we should have more I hope to hear from some of knowledge of proceedings of you soon. important· issues on campus. Sincerely, To the first viewpoint, I can Pete Hanson only reply, that it is my feeling about free press To the Editors: We cannot condone the breach of confidence involved in the release of the Athletic Task Force's preliminary subcommittee report. We believe it casts a shadow over the efforts of the Task Force which they can ill afford in dealing with the controversial athletic issue. Yet the editors of Concordienses were clearly interested in the welfare of the campus community when they published the report. An effort which seeks to facilitate the formulation of well-reasoned, fact-based opinions cannot be wholly condemned. Publication of confidential information is an issue involving the media on a national level, and has not yet been resolved. Respected and intelligent people are found on both sides of the controversy. Certainly merit can be found on either side. Therefore, we do not hesitate in that rational consideration of the article should preclude any fears of compromise. As for the second, l can only support Concordy for its attempt to keep their readers informed. My hopes are extended to all involved, be it hockey players, the students, or the administration, that the end result of this situation leaves us with a feeling of trust and goodwill towards each other. Bob Beatty Station Manager WRUC To the Editors: I would like to quote the opening line of a recent letter, \I write in dismay and sadness to members of the college community\ not about the unauthorized publication of the . Task Force on Athletics by Concordiensis, but about the swift rebuttal by President Bonner. It seems it is. high time that the ideas, the beliefs, and 'trust' of the students be taken into consideration. Far too long Continued on Pilge To about freshmen attitudes. • • FROM THE PRESIDENT'S DESK For the past several weeks I have been meeting regularly with • small groups of new students to talk about the College, first impressions of the campus, and other topics of interest. It has been an important learning experience for me to look at Union once more through the eyes of a newcomer. What strikes freshmen most about Union after five weeks is the friendliness of people, the accessibility of faculty and administrators, the advantages of its small sia, the rigorous academic demands in comparison with high school. the beauty of the campus, and the general sense of liveliness and excitement about them. Nearly everyone is happy, indeed enthusiastic, about his or her decision to come to Union. When asked about the alternatives they considered elsewhere, the schools most often mentioned were Rochester. Cornell, Brown, Lehigh, Hamilton. Bucknell, Colgate, a number of Ivy League schools. and the State University of New York. Although in no sense a scientific sampling, it is excellent company for Union College. One outstanding student visited fifteen leading Eastern colleges and took early admission at Union. Another rejected Dartmouth and Cornell to come here. A considerable proportion of those I have met (about eighty) were accepted by at least one other highly selective college. In asking why they chose Union over other places. a surprising number cited the Accepted Candidates Day of last April as having influenced them favorably. Not all comments were flattering to the College. Some were concerned about the lack of adequate orientation to the academic demands of the College; others cited the food in West College or Hale House; some women were understandably concerned about women's athletics; and several mentioned their surprise at a seeming negative or cynical attitude among upper class students. What has pleased me most is the high interest most students have had in the College's unique history. A good part of each meeting has been spent in answering questions about campus architecture, Eliphalet Nott, notable alumni, and the special relationship of the College to General Electric. It is clear that the distinctive reputation of the College in the 19th century, its radical curriculum changes, and stories of \Union Worthies\ among the faculty and alumni generate a sense of pride and place in current students. Finally, nearly every meeting has included some discussion of current issues and priorities. A number commented on the arts facilities and programs and the need they sense for improvement. Many share the bafflement of those new to the College at the disproportionate attention and emotion generated by athletic questions. Nearly every new student has had comments to make, both favorable and unfavorable, about our comprehensive education program. But overall the morale and enthusiasm of new students seems extraordinarily high and I can only hope this will continue. The impact of this keen and exciting group of newcomers on the campus, the classroom, and the admissions program should be considerable. I for one feel a strong sense of reassurance about the kind of student currently being admitted to Union College. . I ',; Editors-m-chief .................................................................. how1e lax mike rotond1 News editors ...................................................................... matt brief Contributing editor....................................................... glenn wolf son Features editor ......................................................... cindy sheppard Culture editor. ......................................... marshall wisoff, ioe millet Sports editors ........................................................... charlie flanagan allyne price Copy editor.................. . ...................... sman fmkelstein Business managers ......................................................... sheryl farber harns halpert Classifieds editor. .............................. martha rubenstem .todd miller Subscriptions editor ..................................................... harris halpert Layout editor, · ...................... JOe cappucio, nancy murphy Photography editor ...................................................... rich guard1an Photo STaff... ........................ Juhe seeger. mike kolesa cary feverman steve grill, a! tannenbaum, mitch mind lin jon flescher, fred abbott, joe millet!, tony romanazn Art editor....................... . . . . .. . . . .. . . ....... ... .. . . . .. . . .. . . . .... .. . . .lester weiss Poetry editor........................................ delanne : stageman Staff this issue ............................................. Joe ades, lyd1a fogelman, brad kessler, marJone kohn, fran Iorber. marla lux, karen spar, audrey stein, SU!' ekstrom, barbara stern, eileen thomas nancy feldman, amy perlin. ann markowitz. lisa baron Calendar............................ . ....................................... rich berniker CONCORDIENSIS is published every Wednesday by the student body of Union College, Old Gym Hall, Schenectady, New York.; to which Postal Forms 3579 are directed. Publications Office: The Jewish World Publications, 416 Smith ~t., Schenectady, N.Y. 12305 (370-5483). Entered in the Schenectady Post Office as Second Class Matter. Subscription Rate 35 cents per copy, 510. 11 year delivered anywhere in the United States.

Page8 CONCORDIENS/S,· Wednesday, 'Nov, 3, 1976 · NAT con't ·Continued (rQm Page f' which is ever so- significant to the further development and continuation of a tight community like Union College. The non-academic transcript may also be used as a recruitment aid for the College. Many students may be encouraged to come here because of this emphasis on more than solely academic prowess. Another asset of such a transcript appears when a student lists his/her q,ctivities to send to graduate schools for admission. Often, admission committees do not know the qualitative or quantitative values of the various activities in which th!! student was involved in his or her undergraduate career. Hopefully, an official transcript of such activities can explain them in more precise terms, thus aiding the graduate school (and hopefully, the student) in the analysis of his or her candidacy. Finally, this proposal . will give those who add their efforts and time to Union College in extra- curricular activities more .official recognition to acknowledge their contributions. It is the hope of the Committee that the introduction of a non- academic transcript to the record of one's college experience will get a larger · number of people involved in more of the activities available here at Union, will ultimately help to produce a better rounded college as well as better rounded people. Thurs., Nov. 4 Placem-;nt -'N-:-v.u. Graduate School of Business Administration - Individual - 20 min., groups if necessary. 9:00 a.m.-3:30 p.m., Placemeilt Office. Women's Volleyball ..- Union vs. Cobleskill, 7.:00 p.m., Alumni Gym. Bicentennial Lecture Political Analyst Garry Wills, Washington Irving Professor of Modern Literature and Historical Studies, will give the 5th in a series of nine lectures on the Declaration of Independence. 8:00 p.m., Soc. Sci. Rm. 016. Film Committee Presents ••Fail- Safe\ 7:00, 9:00, II :00 p.m., Soc. Sci. 016. Meeting of the Outing Club - 7 p.m. Strauss Louoge. Fri., No't\. a J.V. Football - Union vs. Middlebury 2:30 p.m., Alexander Field. Social Committee Prl)sents - ''A Night At The Races\ - at Saratoga Raceway. Free Transportation. Tickets at Student Activities Gen'l Admission $1,25 - Reserved Seats $2. · Band Party at North College- Beer and Mixed Drinks - · 9:00 p.m., All invited. The perfect gift for the one you love. A perfect Keepsake diamond says it all, reflecting your love in its brilliance and beauty. And you can choose with confidence because the Keepsake guar~ antee assures perfect clarity, fine white col()r and precise modern cut. There is no finer diamond ring. MASTERPIECE K! ~ ® eepsa.Ke ~-------------~-------------, I How to Plan Your Engagement and Wedding 1 I Everything about planning your engagement and wedding in a beautiful 20 page I I booklet. Also valuable ~nf~rmation about diamon.d quality and styling. Gift offend for complete 44 page Bnde s Keepsake Book and g1ant full color poster. All for 25¢. I I . I I Name I ~Address l IC~ I ~ State . . Zip . I 1 Keepsake Diamond Rings, Box 90, Syracuse, New York 13201 I (!~!;~s!!:.:!.e!:!!!:s~ ~~~£!~2;_~1~,:!!~~3~~~~~~~~6~J calenoar . :li' Union Jazz Ensemble sneak preview ~ 12:30 Memorial Chapel.• Admission. - a p.m. Free The Arts Center, at 1609 Nl)w Scotland 'Rd., Albany will open i~s 2nd Gallery exhibition with a r~tception at 6:30 p.m. The exhibits will include '-sculpture, painting, and quilted clothing. The Rensselaer County Council for the Arts, at 189 2nd St., Troy features .. Portraits and Pictures in Poetry,\ with Heidi Mitchell rea<;ling selections from Robert Browning and other poets at 8:00 p.m. - Admission is free. Union College Chess Club meets in Steinmetz Hall, Room 110 every Friday night at 8 p.m. For information call PhiHp Ruben at 370-6403. An Evening of Ragtime and Jazz by the New England Conservatory Ril.gtime Ensemble at 8 p.m. Palace Theater, Albany. For info call 438-.llll. Tickets $4.00. Sat., Nov. 8 Varsity Soccer - Union vs. Kings Point, 12:00 noon, Away. Varsity Football - Union vs. Middlebury, 1:30 p.m. Alexander Field. Cross Country- N.Y. State at Colgate. Film Committee Presents ....., \The Candidate\ 7:00, 9:00, I I :00 p.m., Soc. Sci. Rm. 016. Faculty Square Dance - Soup and Sandwiches at Lanese residence, Scotia, at 6 p.m.- 8 p.m., Old· Chapel. Women's Volleyball - District Tourney. Band Party at Slgma Phi; Free Beer. 9:00 p.m. Band Party at Phi DeJta Theta -. 9:00 p.m. Free Beer and Grain Punch. Sun., Nov. 7 Men's Glee Cl~b - Performing Dvorak's ~·Te Deum\ 3:00 p.m. Boston. Film Committee Presents ..... ..The Candidate\ 7:00, 9:00, II :00 p.m. Soc. Sci. Rm. 01-6. An Interfaith Bicentennial Celebration will be held in Memorial Chapel at -7:'30 p.m., The internationally known theologian and educator Dr. Franklin Litell wi:II speak. All are invited. Film - '\A Doll's House,\ starring Jane Fondq, at the Schact Fine Arts Center, Russell Sage College,. Troy. 7:30 P.M. Admission: 50 cents. Mon., Nov. 8 Women's Swimming, .-- Union vs. Skidmore, Away 3:00p.m. Tues., Nov. 9 • The Idol, Union's literary magazine is now in session. Meetings are every Tuesday at 8:30 p,m. in Carnegie Hall, Room 20 I. Anyone interested in having their works published should sUbmit their efforts to Mrs. Marra in the Student Activities Office. Wed., Nov. '0 Women's Swimming - Union vs. Albany State, Awa_y 4:00p.m. Women's Volleyball - Union vs. Wells at Colgate. 6:00 p.m. Film Committee Pres~nts -:- \M<mkey Business' 1 7:00, 8:45, 10:30 p.m. Soc. Sci. Rm. 016. Schenectady County Public Ubrary Presents - \Readtng Speed and Comprehension\ - Testing and ways of improving- 7:30 p.m. Call 382-3500. • AND MORE STEVIE! STEVIE WONDER GREATEST HITS I was Made To Love Her llplighl!l'm Wondering Blowln' In The Wind and more AVAILABLE PA~T-TIME JOBS ON CAMPUS The following is a list of part- time jobs on campus which are available to students. If interested, come by the Placement Office. I. Receiving and Shipping Clerk at Campus Book Store 2. Field First Aid Person For ·Intramurals Football. (Must have Adva-nced Red Cross Certitication). 3, Tutor for C.E. 80 4. Tutor for Statistics 10 5. Tutor for E.S. 20 6. Tutor for C.E. 45 Water Resources 7. Tutor for E.S. 24 8. Tutor for E.S. 22 9. Tutor for Chemistry lQ (need 2). For.the above tutoiingjobs,the student must have received at least a \B\ in the course to be tutored as well as having. .at least a 2.5 gradepoint average. Interested In Journalism? The Newspaper Fund will conduct an J.rttern Scholarship Competition for newspape'r jobs next summer. There are two separate programs; Reporting lnternship Program and Editing Internship Program. Both are designed for juniors who are sincerely interested in newspaper work as a career, but have had no previous internships or full-time. professional journa-lism experience. If any juniors are interested in either one of these Newspaper Fund Interns, please stop by the Placement Office to pick up application materials. Application deadline due date is December I, 1976. 1.~~-.1 ON MOTOWN ~ECDRDSAND TAPES \\\\'\' ©Motown Record Corporation Songs in the Key of·Life--$799 All Other Stevie Wonder--$399 Nov.4-12 CAMPUS .BOOK STORE - - • 111ter those h or to jt Hollern 324 Da The siir of Nov past ha1 help, Want artist tc ·and ~l Activith W!tJit< day cor 346-294~ Male apartm~ '77-'78 Si Pl. (Fa¢ & utiliti• 374-2957 Disco Big Sist• admissio Senio~ thoughtfl Colleg~;: poetry; e Bo.ok, pJ 9897. Union: They will ll p.m. Bring se informati, 6483. Foilild: after the night .. Cal To all iJ available ! Union Col in thebase1 - ~ ''74· Dell steering a gc;10d cond Camaro Call377-4~ Boots ·r boots si:u Offers. Pet Mini-sch bitch has AKC. Cha 9. If inter; 654:5. As:kir l!Jii7 V; new battery 9369. SONY C!lssette re dioxide bi1 condition. ( BECKER stores for l SUS. dolla: Roy 374-91C ... Riders W Nov. 5 retu1 Jeff 6732. Riders wa or any point Friday, Nov Nov. 14. Cal Desperate!. from SUNY Call 370-303 Marjie. Rides nee Boston on F Simmons b.ef Contact Ben l Need a E your request , Board is aire 10:30 p.m, destination, ( and whetli¢r y one at the \ Hall. Riders_ ne Hampshire Fr: I would Uk miscreant elen collectively bp• almost dorm unflaggiM su promoted in c solidarity; you job, much to t the Editorial s1 ask of you: if r TYPED copy,

lnter-NatiQn. Simulation ..... Will all those interested in helping to b.e validators or to just -be helpf\11 ple!j:se. conta~t Chuck Holleman, 202 Potter, or Ira Kaufman, 324 Davidson, or JiQl. Garafola,. 422 South. The simulation will take .place· the weeke11d of Nov. 20-21 f):om about 9-4, We need past hands experien~ed at the ·simulation of help. ' Wanted: Inn.ovative - and inge!lious artist to cr¥afe replica o[ New York State and surrounding areas.. Call' Stude11t Adivities 370-6118. Wanted Tutor: for classical and every day conversation irl Arabic, P.lease calf: 346-2947-. Phyllis ~rver'Smith Male wanted ·(o ·Share neat, clean apartmept duri11g spring term and. possibly '77-'78 schoofyear. LocatiM is· J!l·l Seward Pl. (Facing side of Richmond). $58 (rent) &. utilities; goo(! landlord; 1st ·floor. Call 374-2957. Disco Party sponsored by Big Brother Big Sisters- Nov: 13 8:3Q.J:OO. 50 cents admission. 15 cents beers. Seniors: a11yone interested ih submitting thoughtful reflections on -the Union College experience (i.e. short essays, poetry; etc.) to be printeCI. in our f:Jnion Book, p_lease contact Ann, Box 503, 377- 9897. Union <;ollege npw ·has a chess club. They will meet every Friday night from 8- ll p.m. in. room 110 . S~einmet1; Hall. Bring sets and/or clocks. For further int~mnatipn,. \caU Philip Rt~ben at 370~ 6403. FoWid; One ring at Alpha Delta Phi' after the Hallow~n Party on S~tutday night.. Call Neil at 346-9688. To all interested: Tom Kershner will be available for \questions on Athletics at Union College at 7:00 on Stmday, Nov. 7 in the .basement of Richmond. I . ·~ '-74 Delta 88, br{)Wl1, 8-cylinder, power steering and brakes, ajc, rear defogger, good condition. $3195 call6517 Mike. Camaro (1!)70) V8. Good Condition. Call 377 -4904~ Boots 'for sale: L.L. Bean insulated boots size tO, in ex~ellent condition. - Offers. Peter Derick ..... Box 897., 613~. Mini-schnauzers for sale. A,KC Bred, bitch has lti ·champion line, stud is an AKC. Champion .puppies were born Oct. 9. If ·interested, contact Bert Rubin 370- 6545. Asking ptlce $280. 1~67 Volkswaglln convertible, needs new battery four new tires. Call Cyndy 346- 9369. SONY MODEL TC-127 Stereo Cassette recorder d_eck with chromium dio~de biasing and limiter. Excellent condition. Only $80. 374-4298. BECKER BEC 107 speakers, Foimd in stores for 5265.00 a piece being sold at $125. dollars a piece brand new. Call Roy 374-9165. I I Riders Wanted to Long Island Friday Nov. 5 returning Sunday Nov. 7. Contact Jeff 6732. Riders wanted to Northern New .Jersey or any point south on the Th:ruway leaving Friday, Nov. 12 and returning Sunday, Nov. i4. Call Mike at 374-3737. Desperately Needed - Rides to or from SUNY Albany any Wed. Fri. or Sat. Call 370-3039 or 374-0704 · and ask for Marjie. Rides needed to Simmons College, Boston on Friday Nov. 7. Must arrive at Simmons b.efore 4:45, Will share expenses. Contact Ben Rubin 370-6545. Need a Ride or Offering one _, Put your request on the .air. The WRUC Ride Board is aired 10:30 a.m., 6:25 p.m. and 10:30 p.m, Just leave your name, destination, dates leaving and returning and whether you need a ride or are offering one at the WRUC Studios in Carnegie Hall. Riders . needed to Durham, New Hampshire Friday Nov. 5, 2:30, 374-4298. I would like to thank all the various miscreant elements on campus who have collectively boosted the Cfassifieds Page tO almost dorm-wide prominence. Your unflaggi!tg submissions have hot only promoted in one sense a kind of campus solidarity;. you have in fact preserved my job, much to the annoyan~e of the rest of the Editorial staff. l have but one boon tu ask of you: if possible, please try to submit TYPED copy,. in thai it flir;ilitates the CONCORDIENSIS; Wednesd(ly, Nov~ 3! 19: .. Page9 . ~ T,h~ Cr.hliled:s :Page of the New CONCURQli.;.NSis is primarily .• stUdent sea;vice; as such, aDi 'material submitted will be publishetLFRE'E or charge. to insure that the item$ submitte4 are 'pdnt~, all c()py MUST be in by Monday at 8;00 PM. 'Items to 'be repeated' ~nust have the nultiber or runs speeJOMI. The ·Union. ColJ.ege CONCOllDIENSIS assumes no responslbl~ty for 'typographfcal·errC)~, but will print a correction. lf yGu ~nt a ride, or y~u have .s~metbing to . -~, or you simply w~nt to se~ so~ethlng of your own printed up in_ a IUJO~ wodd p~blitation, PLEASE, don't hesitate! This i$ a -FREE service, so take ~dvantage or it. If· you wish to submit~ , I material wldcb conforms to the format or the Classifi~ds 'Dape. simp•}' sUp it uncler the Coneordy there will be a short meeting of \Friends of the Geek society\ at the 'good' pinball machine Wed. nite at II p.m . MSM ..,. today, tomorrow, & always - HL CLS: Go to sleep already. TAM The Park Place Hotel ·is o-pen for business. _Oftlt:e dpor (lrd Ooor C•~al~l or give to · ~ o~. Mill~r.,. 2~4 West. . . LEB - Here it is for now. Someday maybe ... ADK Cheryl - ring those chimes. This time ~it is me. laying-out Of the Classifieds Page, &nd will insure that ygijr Ride Wanted, For Sale, · Petsona!, etc., will 110t be mangled by some · typist who can't make out a word or two, thus messinJ::. up your c()py. Again, let me thank you fot your -overwhelming .support, sincerely, Todd A. Miller, Classifieds Editor. Once again, :foiks, the formerly virginal (but still 'llubile) Fax is opening his pearly gates for any interested felines. (Seems the littfe bugger can~t get enough of \cookoo for cocoapuffs\) If you've got an itchy four- ·legger who'~ r-ipping your carpet tO shit arid want relief (rolalds?)ca:U 6'79:3. Wa't Hogs: Ya ~hin;k so huh? She To Khiili·KoJig - Happy Birthday! (You're legal plus one) From B.ea<, Shmoe, and Gary. Li(ll!! Red-Haired Girl, You are beautiful. I love you ~ Charlie Brown. D~lll' Lance; Stlc~s arid stones may break my bones but names about 11\Y in other will never hurt me. The Hllin&n Lance now owns• a piece of the Rock. If you'd like a .piece contact Human or Suzanne. WebSter js. I thinking of building a swimming pool. All those interested ,contact Lance or Dave. All those int!!les(e«l in X rated films please contact Mike Marks. at Delta Phi where lle keeps the X rated films at his fingc;rtips. · About Xaviera! All those interested in finding out Xaviera's real n!lme see Janie. Gee Oeb, 1'in sorry ai;Joqt Sund11y .night. Hey u.s. why are yo.u trying to be a bitch like Colleen. Amy, whafs a nice girl like you doiQg in a ,place like this, always studying1 Suzanne - We love you. PSK: Ok, ~ileen, herf) goes. Clip out and save. Personal! Nobody else even gl&nces at \this. Got it? Ok. One, two; three. What would I do without you, kid? You inake Tuesday nights sing, and the rest of the week hums. What else can I say? You're bea1,1tiful.- Moses Mo(ses) Doubtless your '~Big Pictnre\ rivals even King Kong· in magnitude. However, I am more interested in viewing yonr ''selected shorts.\ Hey DCC; \Fill it, light it, shut up, and dose the door.'' Third floor South. Will the person or persons who keep borrowing the sink from the men?s room in the basement of Carnegie Hall, please return it. ·Matt: You're wasting your time and our money. We want you to be happy. Go to • Law Sc}1ooL Mom. To Rodgers, Hammerstein, Logan, Sondheim, Hamlisch, Hart, Bernstein, etc.: Fear not - the kid is but a misguided dreamer. Will whoever turned the sun off, pleas~ tum it on again. Thanks. Phil A. Mrs. bum Dum Mcboogle, 1 love you. Dum Dum Agarilla. . Cervantes, th&nk you for your letters, I was afraid J'd waste. away. (From lack of demand). Please keep looking, we're not THAT hard to find. Elizabeth, P.S. Did you know Cervantes had an illegitimate daughter·? Bobby Lee - It's 5 p.m.: When are you going to turn off the TV and' get dressed? Bobby Lee - Wash- the dishes! Bobby Lee -·It Your· room's freezing. 1\f_om: Six publishers, four paperback companies, and three movie companies are vying for the rights to the noveL I'll buy you · arid Pa a condominium in Palm Beach. Just don't make me go to Law School. M;1tt To Mof-!J, Mouth - JWD is where your career lies. Schmoo All: Couldn~t think of a good personal this w~ek. Am I still cute? - M. Dear Xaviera: I bet you don't find it surprising that .no man had the nerve to put his name on those notes to you. Jim McParland. The · Interstellar -colonization Expedition (LC.E.} is a science-fiction fan club compos·ed of students interested in the problems of interstellar voyages. SF freaks, physicists, engineer types, eVeryone is welcome to jein, Activities for the year may inc'lude a trip· to New York to look Jot life in Brooklyn. Contact Jim McPadand, 346-973.5. Lester - I tlndetstood the Caption! (What did the picture mean?) S. Cucumber - On the Taconic With ,~houghts less than P~latonic We did go fo~ a cruise. On-the way bac.k We did not hike the same track And inbetween not a pocketbook did we lose:' ~- - .. ·The horrors ofthecity Wer>' not invilii;l.g,rtorpretty, But only a good time .was had there. Yet, in Ardsley, town We traveled with a .frown. Just-think! Three weekends spent hereJ -your steady To Kevin, Gordie. and Danny: Thanks for everything! Wendy, Martha, Sara, Donna, Miriam, Ann, Cindy A, Karen and Cindy P. To She - It's all in your mind - The I Wart Hogs E.:r; - Cheer Up! 'David - The mali with great 'legs. FL. Happy Birthday Robina. To Ruffian the II - it's not such a !lad life (the student life that is ... ) - with :Jove ·from the first. Bluir uQderstands. Bi11ir j])st doesn't understand Who? Dear Nancy and Eileen,. here Is the personal you have been on IllY back for. I hope' it's what you want. Love l{arris Dear BJ, Love Hersey with Nuts. fhil, Beauty -is 'in the_ eye of the beholder. Your friends must be blind. HH Dear Spuck, CU iater. EaJ-1 of Sandwich - we made it to 10 months? Y oil're kidding me - right! Seriously, Happy Anniversary. LtJve, Stubborn. Michael G. - Happy Twentieth. The girls in 112. Francesca, Happy Belated Birthday. Love, Marietta, Max, Kathlett, and the gang. JS - when for the much-talked about, much-needed appointment?? future reminders will be less ambiguous! C. and H. , Hi Pete - Apdrea, Jeff, Joel, Mir, eta!. How's it going? MJR Old Yeller: Write or El'se. England Gregory: Don't bother writing; I've had about enough of you. Besides, Phil A. is better than you. - Your most important friend 2 a.m., and still holding. Hi Matt - anonymous non-polish person. An ad hoc committee has just been formed to evaluate Professor Barry Smith for promotion and tenure· at Union College. The committee would like to receive written statements from students concerning Professor Smith and requests, that all statements be sent to Professor Erik Hansen, c/o Department of History, Social Sciences Building. (Bl](iJilll] 01ll$GJUGJlB~ .-·WE~V..E GOT .RHYTHM WE'VE GOT MUSIC! WE'VE GOT AN ENTIRE INVENTORY SALE ON ~· .,... .... ·1t• ~ . ,, SERIES 698 ALL MUSICAL CATEGORIES INCLUDING POP -ROCK -SOUL -DISCO,.... CLASSICAL - JAZ~- SHOWS - EASY LiSTENING COUNTRY & WESTERN - . INSTRUMENTAL._ MALE VOCAL- FEMALE VOCAL - ETC. MANY FAMOUS LABELS - MANY FAMOUS ARTISTS ROLLING RECO.RDS 527 Union Street, Schenectady Open: 9·9 Monday thru Saturday, 11·6 Sunday 374~3430 SALE ENDS SAT. NOV. 6th

the policy here is let ~us~ run the scho-ol while you the students attend your classes, study, oecasionally party an~ in a few years be expected to .contribute sums of money as alumni. The Task Force publication may be the foot in the door for the students or it may simply be just another knocking of our heads against a brick wall. I hope the students take the initiative. As for they deserve any award or every award that couJ<i be given to them. As for President Bonner, there are other facets of· Union College besides a budget in the black, a winning hockey team, an<i Division L Thank you. Michael Ganz Vice .. presidellt, Student Fonmi Chairman~ Student Committee on Committees ba&is for discussing · ~nytliing .relate<! to future athletic policy.\ Are you implyin~ that the\facts as reported in a duly authorized subcommittee, are incorrect? What it seems you are saying is that we should ignore the. facts before we dedd,e on the hockey issue. This is extremely foolhardy. ~s for your statement that the report does not represent \even the preliminary views of the Task Force,\ is misleading. Certainly the subcommittee of the Task Force is composed of members of the Task Force as a. whole, isn't it? ·Finally, I feel that you have overstepped your authority as President ·of this college by attempting to negate the accurate reporting of facts by an authorized committee of this institution. I hope that you will more carefully weigh your words and actions in the future. Sincerely, Joseph Millett . '77 ·presented, in a mi:tture · . · .····• · substantive- and .. -.... ·k · J.V. . t#am not badly needed food for diSCUssion. I• v. ..oe ey qonne~te'd . witb whether 0)1- !lOt lf the President's dire prediction Uni()n, hockey should ' play . is realized it will be largely the Division l. ·. It is an issue of result Qf his misplated efforts. . fulfiJling si.;nple. · student needs. Moreover, the overall form. in To the Editors: Th~ collegy fuu.s.t realiz-e .J~t whkh hisal\l!utnentswere couched Recently, the acting athletic without §;tudents, Un1bn's lends itself to SllllDicion since he director: Torn J<..ershru:r, existel).ce wohl4 Qe UAdefined. seems to be . simultane{)us1y announced his arbitrary decision lt am.a~;es me that fermenting emotionalism and to disband the J,V. hockey team, admilii!ltratjon C~>tlld serio,u-sly foistibg tbe blame for such a dooisiOU rilade. with.out · the con_sider.- a. muJtl~niillio,:o.· .. _u_, __ situation on the paper. . participation of a single member Art complex to fuimJ U,le l,leeds · .. In sum, f believe. the President's , of th~ stud1l:nt body. Wpy do we, the student bo9y yef tefuse to letter can be seen frurn two as sfudeots'{fohvhom the colkg~ accept, .a~ J, V. . h9ck~y perspectives. fn its worse light, as exists) sit iq~Y-'\~;Vf}ile ,o;ut~of-touch whiCh W~?:J.!I4.. cost it nol;bin,g. We ·hypocritical and scheming; deci&ion~mak<!rs are allowed to must rea,lly ·ask why. the college unf-ornmate and iU conceived in formulate eqjcts made for our vested a gr(}at deal Q:f.p:ow~r: its besf .. . \benefit\ but WlthOUt OUf fem'()Oi'Sty .. athJetic dtreCtQf uut·lna · • Sincerely, knowJ,edge and par:t¢ipatkm? · a crucial fime when Brien O'Toole •79 The J. V. · hockey issue is mu$J 'q¢ fha~ by Jt -competep.t strikingly similar to . the tenure pro{e:~a'i{)~al'\- .. person . who ' To the Editors: proc~.414JP~ic .. ·. Jo,r PrOf. BethQl!;f. knows·· his of . WOcrk. lt w~~ ·. Stu9el;Jts ·. w~~ . also not,. neceisary. fmr . . aflowtxt' t(} · · pattl~~]!at~ in a as~ert his . . itnt•n·Ht decisi?n that aff~ted them. very important time Befon~ the J.V. team was history. ·But, it is· even disbanded, there were over twenty important for studiints to students involved~ whose talent together and take a major We wish to write to affirin our lay well above the intramural the · administrati~ de~~tSl·on.-1 support of your decision to program .. Their i'(e time did not making. into their QWD hands. publish portions of the conflict with any other student Though the unwarra.nted decision preliminary draft of the report of function: the enactment of a full to dial:la!!d the J.V. Jl.Qc~eytea.m the Task Force on Athletics. schedule of games was ·complete, deals· only ·with twentf :or ;si} Whereas we do believe that full practice equipment and students, they are nonetheless To tllf Editors: certain distretiori must be as.ed to funding separate from the students of Union, whQse rights cfo the Editors: Among the many distasteful protect the privacy and school's athletic budget were' also must be supported and upheld. elements of President Bonner's confidentiality of the individuals taken care of. Yet even so, the The members Of the J.V. recent letter was an apparent concerned,. it i\s our opinion that, athletic department scrapped the hockey team, most of whom .are An open letter to .. attempt to'. undermine\ ltik' in t'his instance, tfi'is requirement progra~p. The oosf to the school non-recruits, have . be:en Dr. Thomas Bonner: · autonomy ·, and · viability:, of wa:S\'most ade'quaUHy satisfied. . .of supplying~the needs of the J. V. Circulating petitions fQr .. their I feel that you have overreacted Conew4y. · It is our strong opinion that the · team was zer-o - yet the program fellow students to sign. The to the publication of the report of By · utilizing extra{)tdinary ~arnpus community deserves t'o be was ended. Petitions s:unport tbeir hope fot the Athletic Task Force in this means to communicate his Inf?tmerl. of the_. P,Tceedures ,an?.· Presently, there . are J.V. reenactment of the J.V. prqgram. newspaper. For this I thank you, set:ttinl.ent~ ·· and. indeed; by debberattollS of any commtftee programs- for soccer, football, l ask that you support them. because I would not have read the expressing his thoughts so investigating an issue on campus. basketball, and lacrosse. In the that one day, wlli;ln your report otherwise. emotionally, Dr. Bonner can only Both the availability of accurate past, the school has not hesitated and .rights are being derti'ed, As for the report itself, l found exacerbate the divisive, irrational information at an early date and to supply the students' need, if fellow students will suppQrt it to be nothing more th;;tn an debate to w~h he claims to be so its subsequent discussion can only there was a demand, for a J. V. assimilation of diverse and l)pposed. furthermore, I don't improve the final.:p-utcome of an team in any other sport. Tom known facts. It did not believe the short interval Dr; · in.'vystigation. · .(\. fi~wspaper is the Kershner's decision is in direct . ' ,.. .·,_ ,:.. ' . )\ . . . -~ ·- :;;'' .-- .- HELD OVER BY POPULAR DEMAND STEAK FRIES, CRISP, TOSSED SALAD, TEXAS TOASY,AND ONION RINGS! REG. $4.95 SAVE $1.00 SCHENECTADY 1614 State St. 370-0440 RESERVE NOW FOR YOUR CHRISTMAS PARlY ''There Is A Place~ by Hoby Ebert There is a place. There is a place that people want to go to. They have paid to go there, they are paying to go there, and they will pay for having gone there. , Money be mine, money be yo.urs; it will be paid to go there. There is a place where people are uncertain, and then sure. and finally, sure that they are uncertain. There is a place that people love and people hate and that people love to hate. There is a place Where boys become men, girls become women, women become pencil sharpeners, men become enraged, women do them better; .people become children. There is a moment when people learn that the difference between child arid adult is nothing more than the amount of time spent playing children's games. And still ther.e is this place: People there are all the same and all so different. Yes, they are all different in the same way . . The people work and work and work 'till they can work no more. And when they can work no more, they drink. They drink and drink until they cart drink no more. Why do they work so hard? To gain the ,privilege: of working longer and hatder. Why do they drink so much? To forget that they do not want to be working longer and harder. They are afraid-these people. Afraid of the work, afraid of themselves, afraid of their world. And when theSe people can stand no more, they escape. They have paid to go there and they will pay to leave. They go to find peace, or love, or rest, or relief; but know that th~y must return. As you must. There is a place where buildings crumble and buildings rise. The people come and then they go. They hate thi:;· place and lo:ve this place. rhey change. And the more thirtgs change, the more they stay the same. - R . (J By n< Women' did y01 players cast iror Advar part of) fi,rst thin to screar maybe t why tell If you friend i~ your fin-1 well knc ridges, s< shins. Coachi not perm a few wt the \ladit as such, during a also be witness Union's 1 Jim \the games. M · Gt;Jalke. kick the by t-he < aimed mi an aggres fails, the ! balL That done it, a morale. cannot fir to sCore. Joking Field Hoc. this year nothing e could pia: weeks, an{ have imp< too! Three the hon:e scores ai Castleton • 0-3, respec So let's hockey pia group! by PIE.Q Last ~ Ruggers r by the Alb 6 .. The Rt out of sha match; ht much oftt few out performan• and the fiJ certainly t efforts. Fullback be given r

Page 10 CONCORD!ENS!S, Wednesday, Nov. 3, 1976 ~ .. ,;. ' ·.,;; .. ' ' . . '',;:':. . . . .. . ' ~ ' . '' .. iiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiliiiiiiiiiii-iiiiiiiiiii Letters to the Editors, cont. C(nttJnued. from Page 7 make any suggestions, nor did it offer any course of action. lt (the teport) was prefaced by ConcQrdiensis with the words \Do not overreact, do not jump to conclusions. Be rational.\ proper place for such information Bonner allowed himself to to appear. We therefore see the consider the iss:~ t add.ed ~? publication of this report at this element of so ne Y to 1 e time as a service to the college problem. contradiction of the purpose for building the rink. The donation was accepted and the rink built as· a facility for the use and benefit of the students and college community. Why then is the TEMPORARY Athletic Director refusing full student utilization of the building in the form of a J. V. hockey program? and far too often decisions directly affecting the students have been tnade behind closed doors with as little student input. as possibLe. Has any administrator thought about, who plays the sports here, who does the teacher teach? It seems that the policy here is let 'us' run the school while you the students attend your classes, study, occa~icmally party ant;! in a few years be expected to. contribute large sums of money as alumni. The Task Force publication may be the foot in the door for the students or it may simply be just anQther knocking of our heads against a brick wall. I hope the students take the initiative. As for Concordiensis, they deserve any award or every award that could be given to them. As for President Bonner, there are other facets of U'nion College besides a budget in the black, a winning hockey team, and Division I. Perhaps most disturbing which we applaud. Sincerely, The editors and staff of the Campus Voice though, was the President's appeal for censure by the College community. This section had the ring of a blatant attempt to force the paper into kowtowing, thus undermining its legitimacy. fhe paper presented, in a mature fashion, substanti~e · and badly needed food for discussion. If the President's dire prediction is realized it will be largely the result of his misplaced efforts. j.,v. hoekey You made many statements in your mass mailing to the college that show you in a bad light in this respect. You stated that we should not use the report \as a basis for discyssing anything related to future athletic policy.\ Are you implying that the facts, as reported ·in a -duly ·!rUthorized subcommittee, are incorrect'! What it seems you are saying is that we should ignore the. facts before we decide on the hockey issue. This is extremely foolhardy; Moreover, the overall form in To tbe Editors: The athletic department should realize that the needs of the students must be top priority. The J.V. hocl\ey team is not an issue connected with whether or not Union hockey should play Division I. It is an issue of. fulfilling simple student needs. The college must realize that · Thank you, Mlcbad Ganz Vice-president, Student Forum Chairman, Student Committee on Committees t:/ o the Editors: An open letter to .. Dr. Thomas BQnner: I feel that you have overreacted to the publication of the report of the Athletic Task Force in this newspaper. For this I thank you, because I would not have read the report otherwise. As for the report itself, I found it to be nothing more than an assimilation of diverse and previously known facts. It did not As for your statement that the report dws not represent \even the preliminary views of the Task Force,\ is misleading. Certainly the subcommittee of the Task Force is composed of members of the Task Force as a. whole, isn't it? Finally, t feel that you have overstepped your authority as President of this college by attempting to negate the accurate reporting of facts by an authorized committee of this institution. l hope tha.t you will more carefully weigh your words and actions in the future. Sincerely, Joseph Millett '77 To the Editors: Among the many distasteful elements of President Bonner's recent letter was an apparent attempt to undermine the autonomy and viability of Concordy. By utilizing extraordinary means to communicate his sentiments and. indeed, by expressing his thoughts so cmotiona:lly, Dr. Bonner can only exacerbate the divisive, irrational debate tQ which he claims .. to be so opposed. Furthermore, I don't believe the short interval Dr. which his a~uments were couched lends itself to susoicion since he seems to be simultaneously fermenting emotionalism and foisting the blame for such situation on the paper. ln sutn, I believe the President's letter can be seen from two perspectives. In its worse light, as hypocritical and \>cheming: unfortunate and ill conceived in its best. ¢ Sincerely, Brien O'Toole '79 To the Editors: We wish to write to affirm our support of your decision to publish portions of the preliminary draft of the report of the Task Force on Athletics. Whereas we do believe that certain discretion must be used to protect the privacy and confidentiality of the individuals concerned, it is our opinion that, in this instance; this requirement was most adequately satisfied. lt is our strong opinion that the campus commun,ity deserves to be informed of the procedures and deliberations of ~~cny committee investigating an issue on campus. Both the availability of accurate information at an early date and its subsequent discussion can only improve the final outcome of an investigation. A newspaper is the .1', ' ~ ' ' • • \' •' ''' • I ' HELD OVER BY POPULAR DEMAND STEAK FRIES, CRISP, TOSSED SALAD, TEXAS TOASY,AND ONION RINGS! REG. $4.95 SAVE$1.00 ~\r,~BE WHEII: THE flOOD~ SCHENECTADY l. 614 State Sta 370-0440 RESERVE NOW FOR YOUR CHRISTMAS PARTY L_ ________ _ Recently, the acting athletic director: Tom Kershner, announced his arbitrary decision to disband the J. V. hockey team, a decision made without the participation of a single member of the student body. Why do we, as students (for whom the college t;;Xists) sit idly while out~of~touch decision-makers are allowed to formulate edicts made for our \benefit\ but without our knowledge and participation? The J.V. hockey issue is strikingly similar to the tenure procedures for Prof. Bethold, when students were also not allowed to participate in a decision that affected them. Before the J. V. team was disbanded, ther~ were over twenty students involved, whose talent lay well above the intramural program. Their ice time did not conflict with any other student function: the enactment of a full schedule of games was complete, full practice equipment and funding separate from the school's athletic budget were also taken care of. Yet even so, the athletic department scrapped the program. The cost to the school of supplying the needs of the J. V. team W&s ze.ro - yet the program was ended. Presently, there are J.V. p.rograms for soccer, football, basketball, and lacrosse. In the past, the school has not hesitated to supply the students' need, if there was a demand, for a 1. V. team in any other sport. Tom Kershner's decision is. in direct without students, Union's existence would be undefined. lt amazes me that the administration could seriously consider a multi-million dollar Art complex to fulfill the needs of the student body yet refuse to · accept a J.V. hockey program which would cost it nothing. We must really ask why the college vested a great deal of power jn a temporary athletic director during a crucial titne when decisions must be made by a competent and professional person who truly knows his field of work. lt is necessary for President Bonner to assert his leadership during this very important time in Union's history. But, it is even more important for students .to. bind together and take a major part in the administrative decision- making into their own hands. Though the unwarranted decision to disband the J. V. hockey team deals only with twenty or so students, they are nonetheless students of Union, whose rights must be supported and upheld. The members of the J. V. hockey team, most of whom are non-recruits, have been circulating petitions for their fellow students to sign. The· petitions support their hope for reenactment of the J. V. program. l ask that you support them so that one day, when your needs and rights are ~ing denied, your fellow students will support you. Sincerely, David Matthew '(DThere Is A Place~ by Hoby Ebert There i~ a place. Th€re is a place that people \Hlllt to go to. Ihey have paid to go there. the:, are paying to go there. and they \\ill pay tor ha\ing gone there. Money he mine. money be yours: it will be paid to go there. ·r here 1~ a place \\here people are uncertain, and then ;,ure. :tnd finally. ~urc that they are uncertain. There is a place that people IO\e and people hate and that people love to hate. Ihere is a place \\here boy-. become men. girl~ become women, women become pencil sharpeners, men become enraged, women do them better: people become children. There is a moment when people learn that the difference between child and adult is nothing more than the amount of time spent playing children';, games. And still the1:e is this place. People there are all the ~amc and all ~o d1lferent. Ye,. the:. are all di!krent In the ~ame \\CI_\. I he people work and v.ork and v.ork 'till the:- can v.ork no nwn:. And when they can work no more. they drink. I hey drink and drink until they can drink no more. Why do they \\ork so hard'.' I o gain the ,privilege· t1! \\orking longer and harder. Why dll they dnnk 'o much·! I o Iorge! that the_\ do not \\ant ttl he \HHking longer and harder. I he) arc atraid-the,.,c peopk. Afraid olthe wnrk. afraid of them~elve~. alra1d of their world. :\nd v.hen the~c people <.:an q;md no more. th~:y e~c:ape. I he:, h;nc pa1d to go thue and they \III! pay to bile. I he:- go Ill lind peace. or loH. or rc.:;.t. or relic:!; hut kno\\ that the:, mu>t return. /\s you mu~t. I here 1;. a rlacc: 11here h:.;ildmg;. crumble and building, the. I he people cume and then the\ !!ll. I hey hate this place and 10\c tlm place. I hey change. /\nd the more thing' change. the more they ;.tay the ~ame. By n Women did yo players cast iro Adva part of. first thi1 to screa maybe why teU If you friend i your fin well kR ridges, s shins. Coach not pern a few w the \ladi as such, during 1 also be witness Union's Jim \the games. 1\ Goalk( kick the by the aimed m an aggre fails, the ball. Tha done it, ' morale. cannot fi to score. Joking Field Hoc this year nothing c could pl< weeks, an have imp too! Thre the hom scores ~ Castleton 0-3, respe' So let'~ hockey pi: group! by PIEJ Last Ruggers by the All 6. The R out of sh; match; b much oft few ou performar and the fi certainly efforts. Fullbacl be given

/ COJYCORDIENS!S, W~dnesday, Nov.~. 1976 Page II . ~: ' . . ' ' ·. ' '- ' . . . ' . . : . - . ·. 5portu Hockey Ponderings .Sy now, everyone knows that Women's sports have ball~, but did you know Field Hockey players also have tin shins and cast iron heads? Advancing the baH with any part of your bodY is illegal, so the fi,rst thing anv ,player learns is not to scream \Ouch.!\ when struck ~ maybe the referee did not see, why tell her? If you neecl to know if your girl friend is a hockey player, run your finger down her tibia. It is well known that Ruffles have ridges, so do field hockey players shins. Coaching from the sidelines is not permitted during a game, hut a few well-directed comments to the \ladies\ cannot be interpreted as such, since a \lady\ is rare during a game. Spectators can also be employed in this ploy, witness the spa-rkle added to Union's play by the presence of Jim \the Coach\ Baker at home games. Many thanks Jim! · Goalkeepers are allowed to kick the ball; when hard pressed by the opposition, a few well aimed miskicks .can really deter an aggressive forward; if all else fails, the goalkeeper can sit on the balL That's also illegal, but we've done it, and it helps to boost our morale. When the opposition cannot find the ball, it's difficult to score. Joking aside, the Women's Field Hockey squad has done well this year in terrris of fortitude if nothing else. What other team could play 12 games in just 4 weeks, and still be sailing, and we have imporved over last season too! Three wins instead of 2, and the hon:end ous 0-13 and 0-12 scores against Colgate and Castleton were reduced to 0-2 and 0-3, respectively. So let's hear it for the field hockey players - they're a super group! by PIERE PUCK Last Saturday. the Union' Ruggers met, and were defeated by the Albany Medical School 20- 6 .. The Ruggers, unpracticed and out of shape, gave the Doctors a match; but were outplayed for much of the game. Nev~rtheless, a few outstanding individuaf performances were catalogued, and the fifteen who played must certainly be applauded for their effort!). · Fullback Harvey Friedman can be given much of th.e credit for Harriers. Succeed on the Road by ROCKY DOLAN- Twice in the past wee!< tl1e Union College Cross-Country team t-raveled to the State University ofNew York for major races. On Tuesday the team competed against Siena, Rf>t, and Albany State in the Capital District Championships; and on Saturday it was entere(l with Albany State, University of Massachusetts, Siena., Colgate, C,W. Post, Keene State, and lO other northeastern cross-country powers in the lOth annual Albany Invitational. As usual, Union~s top finisher was Stan Wiskoski, who placed 4th overall. Wiskoski had been the leader of the race through the I and 2 mile points, and so was a bit disappointed with his finish. Sophomore Kevin Scheuer was 2nd across for Union, amazingly only 40 yards arrears of his teammate Wiskoski in 5th place. Kevin has been improving constantly aU year, but this finish Coach Bick called \Excellent. An outstanding race.\ .Peter Pettit (14th), Bob Moffatt (19th), and Marty Dolan (22nd) completed Union's scoring. Pettit has been running with Scheuer in many of the recent meets, and as wen professed some disappointment with his finish. Pettit and other team members were pleased, how~ver, that their 66 points were good enough to avenge an ea:rlier defeat at the hands of RPI (whose lead finisher, Doug Massucci, finished 13th just ahead of Pettit). On Saturday it was back to Albany again for the prestigious Albany Invitational. Here the Union runners were forced to compete without Stan Wiskoski and Pete Pettit - who were both out resting nagging injuries. Due to the severe lack of depth on this year's team, Pettit and Wiskoski have been carrying more than their share of the load. Wiskoski has been defeated on:; \llCe in the dual meet season, and -w .. : his lOth place finish in the NESCAL. keeping the game as close as it ··was. He could be seen ma,king outstanding kicks to the Med backfield throughout the match. His efforts did much to keep the ball away from Union's goal and another Med score. Chip Fenn was as important as always to Union's effort; making excellent tackles, runs, and .passes. John Brown was crucial to the line- outs, pulling the ball down for Union several times; and was recognizable for his hustle and meet at Williams qualified for the division III nationals. Pettit has come back successfully from an ankle operation. following last year's season to be a consistently high placed scorer. Both plan on competing in the state meet this Saturday at Colgate University, and so Coath HiCk gave the pair a rest Satu·rday. In Wiskoskts and Pettit's absence the team as a whole did not score. as well as they would have liked, but there were some fine individual performances to balance the team Jiniah. Once again, Kevin Scheuer ran very well,. finishing 30th overall and I st for Union in the 140-runner field. Kevin's first mile interval was 4:52, which would have led the junior college field, and was his fastest split this .season. Kevin, who nearly qualified for the nationals at · Williams with Wiskoski, will have one more chance to do so at Colgate. Bob Moffatt, Marty Dolan, and Freshman Pete Vielkind were within 15 seconds of each other at the .finish, placing 2nd through 4th for Union, and 96th, 97th, and 99th overall Vielkind has been improving all year (4th for Union against RPl) and has provided the team with some much-needed depth. Moving from the 3-mile high school race to the 5-mile college race is not always easy, but Pete has been taking it all in stride .and has a great future at Union. Junior Keith Silva, Freshman Howie Hersey, and Senior Tom Bourgouise completed the scoring for Union. The finishes of Silva and Hersey were impressive for the fact that both came out for the team late in the season apd have only been practicing for a few weeks. Coach Bick was pleased that the team Was able to rebound and defeat RPI on Tuesday, but added that stiffer competition was ahead in the state meet. Stan Wiskoski and Pete Pettit have been working out with the team this week, and both plan on competing at Colgate. Kevin Scheuer will be hoping for a top 15 finish to qualify for the nationals. These three, along with Moffatt, Dolan, Vielkind, Silva, and Hersey will be most eagerly awaiting a rematch with defending state champions Hamilton, and their All-American runn.er Jon Schmeyer. At NESCAC, Union placed 6th to liamilton's 7th, and Schmeyer placed 9th to Wiskoski's lOth. In an earlier dual meet Hamilton defeated Union, and Wiskoski defeated Schmeyet. The Saturday following the State Meet is the dose of the season: Wiskoski, and possibly Scheuer. voyaging to Case Western Reserve College in Cleveland for the Division Ill Nationals. HARRIER OF TUE WEEK This week's runr;c:r of the week is Sophomore K..:1 lfl Scheuer, an electric enginc..:r i::g major from nearby Scotia, :\T Kevin placed 5th in the 4-team Capital District Tournament, and .\Oth in the 17 team Albany Innutional --both examples of h\ remarkable improvement thi!> ·\.:ason. Kevin's main dedication r:, ; ~·ack, and as a result of his dcJrc<.~tion to the sport he has a bc~t \I 4:17.5 in the mile, and 1:52 in the: half-mile (a time just short ,,: 1\11-American status). Kevin nt:.u !! qualified for the Division Ill r.ationals, and will attempt to ,J' • ,, ' this coming Saturday at the 'it.ate Meet at Colgate. photo by r:nizda mindlin Kevin Scheuer displays his infamous grin LUKE'S SUPERMARKET 830 EASTERN AVE • . 8 AM - 10 PM 7 DAYS Full line of deli, cold beer and soda, prodpce and grocery. spirit throughout the match. Between the three of them, Friedman, Fenn and Brown gave Union's play an element of respectability in · the face of relentless Med drives toward the Union goal. ' Credit must be given to the fifteen players who showed up last Saturday. They were clearly playing not with hopes of a win, but , rather for the sake of the game and the. enjoyment to. be derived from it. glass danee Fricla,-·cet ia with this ad 1 _ Eldt Uto Kaydei'OSSI ..... !A~At9£4.!r.i!!£!J r••••••••••••••···-~ I COUPON I I 0 UNION COLLE.GE PUB· I I I RESTAURANT I I U ~ • .., t!'!. r Off -1 •T 1!} .,d.,. : = c ''\'\' .. ,:.v ,=, . : • I~ 0 L L 0 W All Drinks 1 I I I Pi,one (5181 37;• 6050 4> · I 370.605'1 I 1 From 8:00-ll:OO I I . Every Night I I _ WITH COUPON : __ ]!eteran_ Chri~ taylor commencing yet another Rugby contest pnce ••••••••••••••••••••r

Hockey Ponderings By now, everyone knows that Women's sports have balls, but did you know Field Hockey players also have tin shins and cast iron heads'! Advancing the ball with any part of your body is illegal, so the first thing anv plaver learns is not to scream \Ouch!\ when struck - maybe the referee did not see, why teU her? If you need to know if your girl friend is a hockey player, run your finger down her tibia. It is well hwwn that Ruffles have ridges, so do field hockey players shins. Coaching from the sidelines is not permitted during a game, but a few well-directed comments to the \ladies\ cannot be interpreted as such, since a \lady\ is rare during a game. Spectators can also be employed in this ploy; witness the sparkle added to Union's play by the presence of Jim \the Coach\ Baker at home games. Many thanks Jim! Goalkeepers are allowed to kick the ball; when hard pressed by the opposition, a few well aimed miskicks can really deter an aggressive forward; if all else fails, the goalkeeper can sit on the ball. That's also illegal, but we've done it, and it helps to boost our morale. When the opposition cannot find the ball, it's difficult to score. Joking aside, the Women's Field Hockey s4uad has done well this year in terms of fortitude if nothing dsc. What other team could play I 2 games in just 4 weeks, and still be sailing, and we have imporved over last season too! Three wins instead of 2, and the horrendous 0- I 3 and 0- I 2 scores against Colgate and Castleton were reduced to 0-2 and 0-3, respectively. So let's hear it for the field hockey players they're a super group! CONCORDIENS!S, Wednesday, Nov. 3, 1976 Page 11 sports Harriers Succeed on the Road by ROCKY DOLAN Twice m the past wee.l< tne Union College Cross-Cmmtry team traveled to the State University of New York for major races. On Tuesday the team competed against Siena, RPI, and Albany State in the Capital District Championships; and on Saturday it was entered with Albany State, University of Massachusetts, Siena, Colgate, C. W. Post, Keene State, and 10 other JWrtheastern cross-country powers in the lOth annual Albany Invitational. As usual, Union's top finisher was Stan Wiskoski, who placed 4th overall. Wiskoski had been the leader of the race through the I and 2 mile points, and so was a bit disappointed with his finish. Sophomore Kevin Scheuer was 2nd across for Union, amazingly only 40 yards arrears of his teammate Wiskoski in 5th place. Kevin has been improving constantly all year, but this finish Coach Bick called \Excellent. An outstanding race.\ Peter Pettit (14th), Bob Moffatt (19th), and Marty Dolan (22nd) completed Union's scoring. Pettit has been nmning with Scheuer in many of the recent meets, and as well professed some disappointment with his finish. Pettit and other team members were pleased, however, that their 66 points were good enough to avenge an earlier defeat at the hands of RPI (whose lead finisher, Doug Massucci, finished !3th just ahead of Pettit). On Saturday it was back to Albany again for the prestigiOus Albany Invitational. Here the Union runners were forced to compete without Stan Wiskoski and Pete Pettit - who were both out resting nagging injuries. Due to the severe lack of depth on this year's team, Pettit and Wiskoski have been carrying more than their share of the load. Wiskoski has been defeated or.:_ \nce in the dual meet season, and w .. : his I Oth place finish in the N ESC AL meet at WiUiams qualified for the division HI nationals. Pettit has come back successfully from an ankle operation following last year's season to be a consistently high placed scorer. Both plan on competing in the state meet this Saturday at Colgate University, and so Coach Bick gave the pair a rest Saturday. In Wiskoski's and Pettit's absence the team as a whole did not score as well as they would have liked, but there were some fine individual performances to balance the ~earn finish. Once again, Kevin Scheuer ran very weN, finistling 30th overall and I st for Union in the 140-runner field. Kevin's first mile interval was 4:52, which would have led the junior college field, and was his fastest split this season. Kevin, who nearly qualified for the nationals at Williams with Wiskoski, will have one more chance to do so at Colgate. Bob Moffatt, Marty Dolan, and Freshman Pete Vielkind were within I 5 seconds of each other at the finish, placing 2nd through 4th for Union, and 96th, 97th, and 99th overall. Vielkind has been improving all year (4th for Union agaiNst RPI) and has provided the team with some much-needed depth. Moving from the 3-mile high school race to the 5-mile college race is not always easy, but Pete has been taking it all in stride and has a great future at Union. Junior Keith Silva, Freshman Howie Hersey, and Seaior Tom Bourgouise completed the scoring for Union. The finishes of Silva and Hersey were impressive for the fact that both came out for the team late in the season and have only been practicing for a few weeks. Coach Bick was pleased that photo by mizda mindlin Kevin Scheuer displays his infamous grin the team wa~ abk to rebound and defeat R PI on luesday, but added that ~~ ifter competition was ahead in the 'tate meet. Stan Wiskoski and P..:tt: Pettit have been working out with the team this week, and both plan on competing at Colgate. Kevin Scheuer will be hoping for a top 15 finish to qualify for the aationals. These three, along with Moffatt, Dolan, Vie! kind, Silva, and Hersey will be most eagerly awaiting a rematch with defending state champions Hamilton, and their All-American runner Jon Schmeyer. At NESCAC, Union placed 6th to Hamilton's 7th, and Schmeyer placed 9th to Wiskoski's lOth. In an earlier dual meet Hamilton defeated Union, and Wiskoski defeated Schmeycr. The Saturday following the State Meet is the close of the season: Wiskoski, and possibly Scheuer. voyaging to Case Western Rc-,,·rve College in Cleveland for the Division III Nationals. HARRIER 0 i ~ lIE WEEK This week's r~ • .: .·; of the week is Sophomore K .. · ·1 Scheuer, an electric engim:.:: major from nearby Scotia, ·, ', Kevin placed 5th in the 4-tea: ; · <~pi tal District Tournament, an.: '·Jth in the 17 team Albany lrl\ ::onal both examples of remarkable improvemen~ tl::. main dedit: at ion result of hi,., I! sport he ha' a h. . mile. and I :52 . time JU~t sho1' status). Kc\ in :. , the Division l; i will attempt t<> • Saturday at th Colgate. .. tson. Kevin's .tek, and as a .tion to the · ~.17.5 in the half-mile (a \11-/\merican , fualified for . t~ionab, and this coming · \ttr Meet at LuKE'S SU'! ~HIARKET 830 EASTER'> A \'E. 8 AM - 10 PM 7 DAYS Full line of deli, cold beer and soda, produce and grocery. Ruggers Deflated by PIERE PUCK Last Saturday, the Union Ruggers met, and were defeated by the Albany Medical School 20- 6. The Ruggers, unpracticed and out of shape, gave the Doctors a match; but were outplayed for much of the game. Nevertheless, a few outstanding Individual performances were catalogued, and the fifteen who played must certainly be applauded for their efforts. Fullback Harvey Friedman can be given much of the credit for -~&llt~l keeping the game as close as it was. He could be seen making outstanding kicks to the Med backfield throughout the match. His efforts did much to keep the ball away from Union's goal and another Med score. Chip Fenn was as important as always to Union's effort; making excellent tackles, runs, and . passes. John Brown was crucial to the line- outs, pulling the ball down for Union several times; and was recognizable for his hustle and ! ' j .. · ! spirit throughout the match. Between the three of them, Friedman, Fenn and Brown gave Union'~ play an element of respectability in the face of relentless Med drives toward the Union goal. ' Credit must be given to the fifteen players who showed up last Saturday. They were clearly playing not with hopes of a win, but rather for the sake of the game and the enjoyment to be derived from it.

Page 12. CONCORDJENSJS, Wednesday, Nov. 3,, 1'976 5port5 • ·:. • ~ • > • - • • ' .~· ' ,• ' ••• ' • • • • • '(• ·' ~ • - ' .... ' Dutcltmen Lose To Arch..,Rival Ephs by LANCE BOBROW 1/ Th~ Union Dutchmen were deni'ed victory Saturday afternoon not necessarily by their poor performance bu~. by some help on the part of the officials who made· several controversial calls to help settle the outcome. However, Union coach Tom Cahill thought diffeJ:ently about whether these calls did indeed cost Union the ballgame. ln his words, \We had our chances. We let the game get away ourselves. I can and will make an issue of the quality of the officiating;' Cahill concluded, \But I won't make an issue of losing.\ The play which really broke the backs of the Dutchmen came on a third and four for the Ephmen at their own 42. This play took place late in the third period with Union in command at the time by a score of 19-7. Williams came up short on a running play and it seemed like a punting situation was in order. But, a flag was thrown. Williams was detected in illegal motion. Surely, Union would decline the penaity. Union though was given no option on the play by umpire John Quinlan. The ball was moved back forcing a third and nine situation. Needless to say, the third down pass was complete for 29 yards and the Williams Ephtnen were rolling denying Union a victory here for the first time since the 1940's. The other disputed call came in the second quarter when a Williams' fumble inside their own 25 was ruled deaa. Game films show that the pl3iy was in progress at the time of the fumble which was recovered by Union. Naturally, the Ephs took it from there to drive 75 yards for their first touchdown. Another interesting complaint concerned Williams being late for the second-half kickoff and going unpenalized. These and other plays prompted Cahill's protest to the commissioner of the New England Intercollegiate Football Association who provided the officials for the contest. Union broke open a tight 7-7 football game in the third QUarter by capitalizing on two Williams' turnovers. Tom Hood first intercepted an errant Williams toss returning it to the Ephmen 27. Eight plays ·later, big back Doug Napadano roared in from the one to give Union the lead for the first time 13-7. Moments later, linebacker Carmen Audino gobbled up an Eph. fumble at the Williams 17. Andy Terranova then set up Union fer a goal-line plunge by passing 14 yards to the tight end Frank Hoster. Napadano again got the call, diving over from the one to give UniGn its seemingly commanding 19-7 lead. From there, Williams dominated completely, aided by that call on illegal motion. Williams had a first and goal on the Union two. However, the defense hung tough just as it had last week at Hobart forcing a fourth and goal at the four.Tom Redden, the Williams f!Jilback proved the difference as he made a circus catch in the end zone to make it 19-14. On the next series of downs, Williams Was set up by a pass interference penalty against Union at the Dutchmen two yard line. Amazingly, Union again stopped the Ephmen on three straight running plays. On fourth down though, quarterback Don Wallace Went to Tom Redden who made another diving grab to put Williams ahead to stay 21-19~ Union though had one last chance with over three minutes left in the game. They drove from their own 29 to the Williams 39 yard line before an interception killed whatever chances they had of pulling off a mini-miracle. This Saturday will be Union's last home game of the season. The Dutchmen will play host to powerful Middlebury Who is 5-l so far this season. If the play of the last two weeks is any indication there sheuld be plenty of excitement m this ballgame. .... Hope to see you at 1:30 on Alexander -Field. Players of the Week Defensive laurels for this week .must go to freshman linebacker Carmen Audino of Albany, N.Y. Carmen narrowly missed the award in previous weeks· and it was hard to slight him again. Carmen is an alert ballplayer who has a knack of gobbling up loose footballs. He made a key fumble recovery in this game. In addition, may of the Williams' ballcar.riets will remember Carmen as he made seveml \pops\. The offensive player of this week is senior tight end Frank Hoster from t:Columbu!), · Ohio. Frank made key. catches in the Williams' game and crucial nabs. in other contests. Also, he has been instrumental in opening up many of the gaping holes which the Dutchmen running backs have been running through in recent weeks. Frank is an important part of Union's ball ·control offense as. Well as a bFother~_at Si~!!Ja __ Phi. . Tennis Player of ·the Week This week's Tennis Player of ·the Week is Leslie Kent, the Girls · number one singles .player. Leslie · has compiled an almost perfect record so far this' year, aqd her · wins have_ been by large margins. Leslie . is a Sophomore, so you probably will be reading more about her fantastic play in the . ·future. 1'ennis woman of the year, Leslie Kent, practicing her·backhand Dutchwomen End Season by PAMELA HASSE~ didn't even get to play. Ann Union'.s women's tennis team Kellogg, who plays second ·singles started the season off in a winning for Union did get to play her way, but due to some unfortunate match and she won. tlarb Setk, circumstances was unable to show third singles lost her match, but its full potentiaL · she had to change courts in mid- The team was; scheduled to play ~ream. ··· Vassar and Oneonta, but because There was a main tournament of rain the matches were. and· feed-in tournament played aJ postpened and were unable to be SUNY, New Paltz, on Oct. 22~24. scheduled for another time. There Unlike most feed-in consultation was a match at Albany on tournaments, this one was not Monday, Oct. 18. No winner was composed only of losers playing decl1,1red, because half of the team losers. Playing second singles was Ann Kellogg, who had a- close match in the first round of the main tournament, lost to Alfred 4-6, 5~7; and lost the feed-in c-onsultation tournament. to Oswego. Representing oor- team in doubles were first doubies B~rb Berk and Rhonda Kaplan and second doubles Jill Schlesinger and Fran Lober.. Barb and Rhonda beat Wells in the 1st round of the main tot,trnamettt 6- 3, 6-2. They lost however, in the 2nd· round of the feed-in tournament. )\hey b:eat UU. · 7-5, 6-1, and they alse beat St. Johns 6-7, 7-5. They then lost to St. Lawrence, 4-6, 4::6. Ji.n and Fran won their first ·match of the main tournament 6~ I, 6-2 and lost their second, playing Wagner .and Brooklyn Colleges respectively. They lost their second round of the feed-in tournament to Stoneybrook 5-7, 4-6 in a very close match. Carmen Audino and Frank \Helicopter\ Hoster, recipients of this week's grid stars Hooters Dave ·Yet to Get on Tr·aek. by SCOTT HEILBRlfNN Pete Martini opened the second, The Union Soccer team. _ half sco~ing at ~2:43 on~~ assist hosting two games this week and from Mtke S_mlt~ .. Marttm, who traveling for one, came out losing has been playmg mJured the latter two of the three decisions. part of the season, has shown a In what has proven a long and dedication that has caused often frustrating season, there opponents coac~es much have been few games in which the c?mm~nt. J1m Manm_ng followed Garnet Booters could play while six mtnutes _later wtth a score laughing. Such was the case when from. a crossmg pass from John New Paltz State visited Daley Kovacs. John Kovacs scored on a Field fast Saturday. per~ect. pa_ss fro_m George Surprisingly, a lightly regarded Ganvaltts wtt~ _4 mmutes and 2 New Paltz team struck first with seconds rerhamm_g. Peter_ Handy only five minutes gone in the shot a hard be_nc:Img ball into the game on a fluke goal past the net after rcce1vtng a_ pass . from outstretched hands of Goalie Mtke Hogan. In the fm~l mmute, Dou-g Crawford. After taking 17 ·Paul Marvin sco~ed h1s second shots, defenseman Mike Smith goal on. an assist. from. Pete drove home a corner kick with Handy, l he final score tead ~to I 16:11 remaining in the first half. · and reflects o_ne- _of_ the hghter Paul Marvin, on a pinpoint pass moments m this dtfflcult season. from Freshman Jim Stoothoff put the Garnet Booters ahead 2 to i with 2:50 left on the clock. With only 42 seconds left, Ira Sutton made the score 3 to I on a low driving snof'past the goalie. * * * * The trip to St. Lawrence University for Wednesday's Soccer Game was long and tiring. Combining with this fact was that the opl>osition's squad was by far the best faced all season. deflected past ·him ami shot into St. Lawrence and Union the. goal. With 30 minutes battled in an excjting f!rst half to remaining. Union did\ not give up. a s~oreless deadloc_k. Garnet They received a golden G<?a!te Mark Rukuckl had so~e · opportunity when George bnlhant moments as. he demed Garivaltis was tripped in the any score under heavy pr~ssure. penalty area. The Garnet Hooters The second half was JUSt as failed to convert as Pete Martini exciting, but Coach Magee's shot tr!tveled high into the. trees squad c~me out on the sh~rt e~d. above the goal. The· score was I The Samts- r~c<>;rded their first to 0 as the half.ended. The second sc~m on a wh~sthng 40 yar~ blast half was ten minutes old when With three. m~tn_utes . ~one m the Middlebury scored a second time. second half. I h1rty ~mutes later, At this point, a faulty mechanism on a . ~erfect cro~smg pass,. ~he on the· clock stopped the time, ~ppos1t1on made 1t 2 to 0. 1 he and .it is only because of the fmai score came at 10:00 on. a diligent cry ~f the timekeeper p~r~ectly placed s·hot passed _the that the referees palted the game. d1vmg form of Mark Rukuckl. With this break in the action- the * * * * . . Middlebury came to visit . Union possessing a good record against what is considered formidable opposition. momentum of the game was swung in the favor of the Garnet Booters. George Garivaltis took advantage of this by driving home a bouncing ball to make the score opposition's goalie. Thus, with the final horn, the score read 3 ~o 2 with Union once again being on the short side. INTRAMURAL NEWS Men's Poc·ket Pool Tournament - On Thursday, Oct. 29, George Siletzky beat Mike Dot!glass to win the 1976 Union College Intramural Pocket Pool Tournament. Foosball At 7:30 on November 4th there will be a Men's I)oubles FoosbaJl · Tournament. the tournament will be held on the top flOor of Carnegie Hall. If interested, sign up in the Intramural Office in The visitors struck first as freshman Goalie, Doug Crawford tried to cut off a rolling ball. Unfortunatelv. the ball was . Alumni Gym or call 370-61 1.9. All you Foosball .addicts come on · down and show your stuff. 2 to I. Union continued to press, hut their attempts to tie t-he score w~re frustrated · by the out stand iti.J£ p'l:ay ·.of the . · .. • I 213 for roc reh att1 tra1 j Chi his Ent yea qui Edt [ wh~ iten a cat Cra deb: stati tran the : Uni< A, a cad be ~ stud, Crai A's , with Di a met of C the that hims, ackn ad vis the l unan Sci en

All College Sena_tors prior to last week'sfireworks. . . Jl Volum~ 106, No. 7 Nov~mb~r 10, 1976 • College Faces Budget Deficit by ALISON JAMESON u ruon t,_ollege, which has consistently had budget surpluses over the past 3 years, ran a deficit of $89,000 for the fiscal yea-r that included the 1975-76 school year. The deficit was discovered by the auditing firm that Union employs. A variance check, that is the process of determining why the actual budget differed from the planned budget, is being conducted by the college. Although the report is not complete, Provost Willard Enteman explained some of the reasons for the deficit. . . S . .. .. ·. ENATE N.IXES NAT Legal requirements account for part of the discrepancy. The Social Security laws were changed, thus costing the college a bigger expense in that area than it had anticipated. Slue Cross and Blue Shield. raised their .premiums by 43 %. New York Telephone's rates rose by 30 % . Changes such as these are difficult to predict and they must be lived with once .they .Q((CUI'. Different areas, ca.lled Last Thursday in Psy'Ohology 213, the All-College Senate met for the first time this year. The room was _crowded, due to a relatively large. influx of students attracted by the non-academic transcript proposal As President Bonner was in Chicago, chairing the Senate in his place ·was Provost Willard Entetnan. T:he minutes of .last year's _ijnaJ_.S.enate meeting were quickly· approved b.y the Educational Policy Committee. Discussion then ensUed on ·· what was undoubtedly the major item on the agenda, the non- academic transcript. Professor Craig of Engineering began the debate by offering an amendment stating that the non,.academic transcript wotild ·be attached to the academic transcript only if the student specifically ·requested it. However, the non-academic transcript would remain ~ part of the student's permanent record at Union. and said, \Faculty members ill my division would not and could not put their name do'Y(n on any document of this kind.\ On a tangent, the history professor WlJ.s \disturbed by the disparity between student and faculty views on this and other issues.\ He Wll& e.videntJy r.eferring to the student- faculty polarization that has been occurring in the All-College SeQate for over a year. In response te faculty critidsm., Andy Koblenz; Student Trustee- noted that college policy in s11ch documents as the Master ~Ian and the Student Perspectus state that extra-curricular contributions are expected of the student \Education goes beyond 36 courses,\ said the Stude.nt Trustee. Dean Matk W. Smith, on behalf 6f'the proposal stated that \the coer'cive aspect was important; we would have to pe1-suade students and faculty to know each other well enoujlh for faculty to sign the document.\ At this point, a vote was taken on Professor Craig's amendment which passed by a large majority. 20 votes in favor, three op.posed, and I· abstention. Evidently, student Senators voting for the amemlment saw it as a compromise that would appease the faculty. - After this amendment, various ~enators -spoke-· up offering amendments that were so poor in wording that the Provost interrupted the discussion to state that the thrust seemed to make the entire process optional. Professor Daniels of Political Science, C'hairm.an of the Committee on the non-aca<lern:ic tran~cript, indicated that he was prepared to offer amendments that would accomplish exactly that purpose. responsibility centers, of the college are expected to run Even this didn't wash with most surpluses or deficits of varying faculty. Prof. Sutter stated that amounts. The bookstore was .. Faculty don't like the idea of the expected to have a surplus of proposal,\ and \1 thought $60,000 last year; instead, the extracurricular activities were just surplus turned out to be $5,000 for fun.\ He failed to address the (all figures are intellectual and educational merit approximated). The,re was a of such activities. $200,000 difference between At this point, math professor the planned surplus from Bill Fairchild said that Craig's Graduate and Continui-ng amendment had changed the Education aQd the actual figure. situation and he made a motion These discrepancies have already to table the proposal so it could be~n identified, whi~e others are go··baek ·to Divisions. The vote .. b.emg. :~o--?~ht,. ObVIously, some , was a 12,..12 tie thus the motion . responstb~hty centers showed an failed to get a' needed majority unexpected .. surplus since the and discussion continues. budget deftctt was actually only · . $89,000, while the deficit from the ~everal Se1_1~tors a~am spoke two areas just mentioned, alone up,. Economtcs Professor E. comes to over $250,000. Dw~ght Phaup . stated that the One aspect of the budget that Crat~ amendment removed any should be mentioned is that it is sanction. Dean of Faculty Paula pretty much set by the time the Brownlee stated that the school year starts. 70 % of the Continued on Page 12 Continued on Page 12 According to Craig, the non- academic transcript was or could be an \invasion of privacy\ for students. Additionally, Prof. Craig. added, \students ·Who get A's and do nothing_ else are fine with me.\ Carter Asked to Speak at Commencement Discussion rambled on the amendment and Professor Sutter of Chemistry spoke out against the entire concept, particularly that of a student · evaluating himself and receiving the official acknowledgement of his faculty advisor. Professor Finkelstein. of the History Department cited the unanimity of Division II (Social Sciences). against the proposal EMh ye-ar a promine11t personality in public affairs is asked to address the graduatiag class a't Commencement in June. In 1974, it was Dixie Lee Ray, then Chairwoman of the Atomic Ener:gy Commission and now Governor-elect of the state of Washington. In 1975, Dr. Albert Sabin, developer of the oral polio vaccine and one of the nation's leading scientists, was the speaker. He was followed ..Jast year by Dr. John Hope FrankliB, the eminent historian from the University of Chicago. Concordy has learned that President Bonner, on behalf of the college has invited President- elect Jimmy Carter to spea-k at this year's Comtne1icement. A. graduation address by the President-elect would of course create tremendous public exposure for Union. Dr. Bonner fir~t put forth fhe commencem.ent offer to Carter while drivit1g with him from Albany Airport to the campus prior to the President.,elect's campaign· speech here last ApriL Carter replied that he would like to address the Seniors, but that it was too soon to make any firm commitment. Union's President sent a fotmal letter to follow this verbal offer and received a response ,from one of Carter's. A_dvanc.e Appointments men. Again, it indicated Carter's willingn<'!ss to speak but stated that no commitments could be made. The offer is still very ml.lch alive. Since the election, according to Dr. Bonner, a trustee has been working with a '\key campaign person\ in New York to get together for a firm date. Understanda,bly, Dt. Bonnet declined to mention names because of the sensitivity of the situation. Dr. Bonner noted the many considerations involved in getting Carter to be the Commencement speaker. \We'd 'like to have him for Commencement but we~d like to get him for any time this year.\ The Union community should not think that the offer is a long shot. Dr. Bonner told Concor.dy \rd say we have·a fair chance.\ There is no firm date for a Carter rep~y. but obviously the college cannot wah too long in choosing a Commencement speaker. \I can't say by when,\ replied Dr. Bonner in response to Concordy's query about a reply. However, the Campus Committee has come up with seve.ral names to fill the speaker's. slot if Carter s.hould decline the Commencement offer. In the meantime, Union may be nat-ional news come June 12th. Carter at Union last April,· will Commencement encore? he make a

. I: . '*'·: t:• . . ' ' t·; :. ) . :• ';:: . . •. ~ !• •J ' ' :,'1 ·. /' f :~ ',;· : . \ !,..) . t. -:J:. -?J ' ' ·. : <j . 1 ...... I. ' ' . I ).): All College Senators prior to last week'sfireworks. Volume 106, No. 7 November 10, 1976 • College Faces Budget Deficit by ALISON JAMESON un10n '-ollege, which has consistently had budget surpluses over the past 3 years. ran a deficit of $lN,OOO for the fiscal year that included the !975-76 school year. The deficit was discovered bv the auditing firm that Union employs. A variance check, that is the process of determining why the actual budget differed from the planned budget, is being conducted by the college. Although the report 1~ not complete, Provo~t Willard Enteman explained ~ome ol !he reasons fur the deficit. SENATE NIXES NAT Legal requiremenb account for part of the discrepancy. I he Social Security laws were changed, thus costing the college a bigger expense in that area than it had anticipated. Blue Cross and Blue Shield raised their premiums by 43%. New York Telephone's rates rose by 30 % . Changes such as these are difficult to predict and they must be lived with once they occur. Different areas, called Last Thursday in Psychology 213, the All-College Senate met for the first time this year. The room was crowded, due to a relatively large influx of students attracted by the non-academic transcript proposal. As President Bonner was in Chicago, chairing the Senate in his place was Provost Willard Enteman. The minutes of last year's final Senate meeting were quickly approved by the Educational Policy Committee. Discussion then ensued on what was undoubtedly the major Item on the agenda, the non- academic transcript. Professor Craig of Engineering began the debate by offering an amendment stating that the non-academic transcript would be attached to the academic transcript only if the ~tudent specifically requested it. However, the non-academic transcript would remain <;~ part of the student's permanent record at Union. and said, \Faculty members in my division would not and could not put their name down on any document of this kind.\ On a tangent, the history professor was \disturbed by the disparity between student and faculty views on this and other issues.\ He was evidently referring to the student- faculty polarization that has been occurring in the All-College Senate for over a year. In response to faculty criticism, Andy Koblenz, Student 1 rustee noted that college policy in such documents as the Master Plan and the Student Perspectus state that extra-curricular contributions are expected of the student. \Education goes beyond 36 courses,\ said the Student Trustee. Dean Mark W. Smith, on behalf of the proposal stated that \the coercive aspect was important; we would have to persuade students and faculty to know each other well enou~h for faculty to sign the docume.nt.\ At this point, a vote was taken on Professor Craig's amendment which passed by a large majority, 20 votes in favor, three opposed, and 1 abstention. Evidently, student Senators voting for the amendment saw it as a compromise that would appease the faculty. After this amendment, various Senators spoke up offering amendments that were so poor in wording that the Provost interrupted the discussion to state that the thrust seemed to make the entire process optional. Professor Daniels of Political Science, Chairman of the Committee on the non-academic transcript, indicated that he was prepared to offer amendments that would accomplish exactly that purpose. Even this didn't wash with most faculty. Prof. Sutter stated that \Faculty don't like the idea of the proposal,\ and \I thought extracurricular activities were just for fun.\ He failed to address the intellectual and educational merit of such activities. At this pomt, math professor Bill Fairchild said that Craig's amendment had changed the situation and he made a motion to table the proposal so it could go back to Divisions. The vote was a 12-12 tie, thus the motion failed to get a needed majority and discussion continues. Several Senators again spoke up; Economics Professor E. Dwight Phaup stated that the Craig amendment removed any sanction. Dean of Faculty Paula Brownlee stated that the Continued on Page 12 responsibility centers, of the college are expected to run surpluses or deficits of varying amounts. The bookstore was expected to have a surplus of $60,000 last year; instead, the surplus turned out to be $5,000 (all figures are approximated). There was a $200,000 difference bet ween the planned surplus from Graduate and Continuing Education and the actual figure. These discrepancies have already been identified, while others are being sought. Obviously. some responsibility centers showed an unexpected surplus since the budget deficit was actually only $89,000, while the deficit from the two areas just mentioned. alone comes to over $250,000. One aspect of the budget that should be mentioned is that it is pretty much set by the time the school year starts. 70 C:( of the Continued on Page 12 According to Craig, the non- academic transcript was or could he an \invasion of privacy\ for ~tudents. Additionally, Prof. Craig. added, \students who get 1\ 's and do nothing else are fine 1\ith me.\ Carter Asked to Speak at Commencement Discus~ion rambled on the .11nendmcnt and Professor Sutter ol Chemistry spoke out against the entire concept. particularly !hat of a student evaluating l11mself and receiving the official acknowledgement of his faculty .tdvisor. Professor 1-inkelstein. of !he History Department cited the unanimity of Division II (Social Sciences) against the proposal INSIDE Library Study Post~ Election Campus Pub Transfer Facts Culture Editorials Classifieds Ctdendar wf6'k'i!w;\' . -~~~~~~·~· -~··· .. · ·;. Page 2 3 4 5 6-7 8-9 13 15· Each year a prominent personality in public affair~ is asked to address the graduating class at Commencement in June. In 1974, it was Dixie Lee Ray. then Chairwoman of the 1\tomic Energy Commission and now Governor-elect of the state of Washington. In 1975. Dr. Albert Sabin, developer of the oral polio vaccine and one of the nation's leading scientists, was the speaker. He was followed last year by Dr. John Hope Franklin. the eminent historian from the University of Ch1cago. Concordy has learned that President Bonner. on behalf of the college has invited President- elect Jimmy Carter to speak at this year\ Commencement. A graduation address by the President-elect would of course create tremendous public exposure lor Union. Dr. Bonner first put forth thl' commencement offer to Carter while driving with him from Albany Airport to the campus prior to the President-elect's campaign speech here last April. Carter replied that he would like to address the Seniors, hut that it was too soon to make any firm commitment Union's President sent a formal letter to follow this verbal offer and received a response from one of Carter's Advance 1\ppointmenb men. /\gain. it indicated Carter\ willingn.!ss to speak hut ~ta t~:d that no commitmenb could be made. I he offer is still very much alive. Since the election, according to Dr. Bonner, a trustee has been working with a \key campaign person\ in New York to get together for a firm date. Understandably, Dr. Bonner declined to mention names because of the sensitivity of the situation. Dr. Bonner noted the many considerations involved in getting Carter to he the Commencement speaker. \'We'd like to have him for Commencement but we'd like to get him for any time this year.\ The Union community should not think that the offer 1s a long shot. Dr. Bonner told ('oncordy ''I'd say we have a fair chance.\ I here is no lirm date lor a Carter reply, but obviously the college cannot wait too long m choosing a Commencement speaker. \'I can't say by when.\ replied Dr. Bonner in response to Concordy's 4uery about a reply. However, the Campus Committee has come up with several names to fill the speaker's slot if Carter should decline the Commencement offer. In the meantime, Union may be national news come June 12th. Carter at Union last April; will Commencement encore? he make a

CONCORD1ENSI\S 'Wt!llnesday, ·JYov.··lO) 1976 photo by phil a. pino Jack Maranville, Union P .R head, \The further away you go, the less you will hear of Union.\ Shaffer Library: by DAVE RUBIN Ever wonder h0w your hometown newspaper • gets the news about Dean's Ust, graduates, or just what's happening up here in Union? Have you ever thought of how the New York Times., Newsday, the Times-Union, or any other Ia~ge­ circulation newspaper gets tl:le word on the Steinmetz Ca·r, Prof. Daniels' Helicol'lter, or any other majol7 event here at the school? Well, all the credit goes to the PR (Public Relations) Office which is run by J'ack Maranville along with Dan Forbush (Editolllllf the Campus Chronicle) and--r>eter Blankman (Associate Ed. of Union College magazine). Jack Maranville came to Union in 1975 after gaining mucb experience with Public Relations m General Electric, State University Construction of Albany, and in the N.Y. St\lte Office for Parks and Recreation. Having now been here for over a year, Maranville ha•s placed his pri<Hities in two areas: '\Hometown Campaign\ and \General Awareness.\ These two - objectives on which he has been working are pa·rt of his long-term program for \.getting Union on the map.\ Along with this, he must reach his '\:onstituency\ of parents, alumni, and donors to help keep the College in the black financia!Iy (it's important to let them know we're still here), and to aid in support services to other departments. Two such examples are \Union College in Brief' and the \Graduate Programs Guide,\ A Comparative and. Func:tlonal Study '. . While television absorbs more time titan anythin.g but sleep or work for millions of Americans, the Shaffer Library is the preoccupation of many Union students. The library is a main concern of many members of the campus community, as it is at the heart of academic activity in addition to its popularity as a soci(ll gathering place. The past few years have seen a growing concern for the library's resources, policies, and budgetary allotments, a concern which often focuses on security, vandalism, and mutilation problems. This two-part article, the result of a series .of interviews with library andadministtativepersonnel, is an attempt to better acquaint the student body with the resource. This first segment concerns internal functions terms library and its comparative status with other schools, while next week's section will concentrate on the facility's (budgetary priority within the Union community. On a comparative basis with similar colleges and universtttes, Union's \volumes added\ standing is slipping. A Bowdoin College study of some 40 institutions over a period of seven years, indicates that while Union ranked 18th for volumes added in 1970-71, it dropped to 27th place for 1974-75, the latest available figures. The \expenditure per student\ figure can be taken to reflect institutional commitment to library services. In 1969-70 Union ranked 12th in this category, l>ut it slipped to 26th the following year and plummetted to 35th by 1974-75. Shaffer fares better in periodicals than in volumes, hovering around II th place in Hale House is taking a new dimension. Beginning November 11, Hale House will feature a soup and salad bar at both lunch and dinner. The cost of medium salads will be 40¢, , large salads 80¢ . The coupon featured in Concordy is good for one free bowl of soup or a discount on medium and large salads. Hale House meal hours are lunch 11:30-!:15 and dinner 5- 6:15. Hale House also offers a variety of sandwiches as well as 2 specialties at each meal. If you have any suggestions concerning Hale House, manager Pat Warner will be more than happy to talk with you. .. periodicals received.\ According to this study, our \library expenditure as percent of institutional total \is dismal, as we find that our lOth place. in 1969-70 fell to 25th place by 1974- 75. While these findings are not presented in order to raise fear about the library's quality, they are reviewed to educate the community about Union's relative strengths and weaknesses, particularly on a comparative basis. According to library personnel there are three constraints which affect the library's operating · capacity: I. publications are expensive; 2. funds . are limited; and 3. the nature of liberal arts makes it impossible to please everyone. David Gerhan, assistant reference librarian, discussed Union's high loan activity (both regular and inter-library loan ) and cited the increasing academic sophistication of students. In particular, he feels that Union students are conducting work of the graduate caliber through the senior project requirement, and this is demanding on the library. This academic sophistication is' coupled with what Gerhan terms, increasing pressure on the faculty to publish. He cites the inter· library loan statistics which show an increase from 3,267 transactions in 1966-67 to 11,876 in 1975-76, a period in which there was a 51 percent increase in student enrollment. Students and library staff alike are concerned with the lack of security, which makes for a high incidence of theft and mutilation. The extent of the problem has yet to be documented, although an extensive inventory was attempted during the summer of 1975. It was during that spring that the problem had reached sufficient magnitude to prompt the Library Committee to unanimously decide that an electronic detection system was desirable; however, the high cost (estimates range from $20,000- $30,000) prohibited implementation of such a system. Ms. Ruth Ann Evans, acting head of the library, hopes that the problem will be abated by winter term, when the reserve desk is relocated, freeing the staff at the circulation desk to tend to specific circulation duties. The basement of the library boasts a soon•to-be completed reserve reading area where all reserve reading activities will be located. Circulation personnel, according to Ms. Evans, will then be able to monitor library users and ensure that materials are duly checked out, rather than servicing reserve reading requests. . Ms. Evans becomes obviously frustrated in · discussing the problem of stolen books. She says: .. We get annoyed that people do that to each other. Our aim is to get the book you need to get your education, and when we can't because ifs mysteriously missing ... \ This security problem includes a growing mutilation of materials, particularly during the past two years. Ms. Evans observes that materials both in loose journal and bound form are systematically decimated by students. This oftert means that the library must complete the set before binding it, or in the case of a bound volume, it must be rebound. While other institutions turn to micro-film to protect materials and conserve space, the Union library prefers to bind copies. Certain facets of library policy remain up-in-the-air while the Librarian Search Committee narrows its pool of applicants for top post. One library staff member explains that ·~everything got scrambled\ with tire unexpected death of Dr. Tolan and it continues to be a disruptive force in the operation of the library. The Committee plans to conduct final interviews ·for top position shortly; however, the appointed. head might assume office as late as the end of the academic year, depending on his or her unfinished commitments. This makes for a fair amount of confusion and uncertainty with regard to major policy decisions; however, under the strained circumstances the library ts operating extremely smoothly. There are many aspects of the library that aren't generally known by its users. For instance, library staff \go all out\ to supply students with the sources they need. hiter-library loan searches have gone as far a~ South America, Russia, and Belgium, relates staff member Suzanne Hapgood. As time consuming as this process often is, the staff sees it as a crucial way to assist students in their educational pursuits. Similarly, the staff welcomes suggestions for possible additions to the library's holdings, and it encourages members of the community to come forth with names of volumes and periodicals they would like to see added. Anyone can submit an order card and staff member Christine Bain emphasizes the library's flexibility in obtammg resea~ch materials. ' photo by The reference desk, 'Shaffer Library; has college support dwindled? which are printed for the Admissions Office. Maranville's Office wiH also help the Admill,sions Office by releasing News Bulletins about visiting by members ot the Admissions t0 certain areas for prospective students. The way in which, the PR Office gets. Union's name into· the press is primarily through the wire services. According to Maranville, \the competition on t:he •wires' is !'antastically competitive. and the further away you go, the less you will hear of Union.\ Maranville also is trying to get large circulation papers te run oil their op-ed pages essays by Union professors that will sirnil'arly gain attention for the coJlege. The \Hometown Campaign\ mostly involves sending otit exten.sive buLk mailings to papers in the states of NJ, NY, Connecticut, and Massachussetts, as these areas are seen to provide his \prime audience.\ Maranville has also· .tried_ to get his own ideas ·on ~rtiQles into .suc,h widely read magazines as the Saturday Night Review and Readers' Digest, though so fat has only received .. thanks but no thanks\ replies. Maranville had one tutu .of bad luck with the N.Y. Times Education Editor. lt seems that he had written the Times notifying them of our \Accepted Candidates Day\ last year and suggesting that they do a story on the advent of many colleges trying this appmach to attract outstanding;prospective students. The Times eventually used the idea citing such schools as Duke, Dartmouth, and other Ivy League schools while overlooking Union completely. Maranville describes his job as one of \hit and miss\ and states that \it's a business of constant motion; you've got to be on top of the press at all times and knowing what is happening in every facet of life at Union.\ The job of a PR man of a small school like Union is a very important one. It is very critical in terms of both getting funds and good students, and Jack Maranville is a man who has the ability to put Union- \on the map.\ · Neusner to Speak This coming Thursday, the Jewish Student Organization Hillel, in conjunction with the History Department and the Comp. Ed. Board, will be presenting Prof. Jacob Neusner of the Brown University Religious Studies Dept. One of America's foremost scholars in the field of Judaica, Neusner has authored over thirty books and numerous essays on the .subject. Neusner reeeived his A. B. magna cum laude from Harvard in 1954, and went on the earn a M. H. L. from the Jewish Theological Seminary of America (1960), and a Ph.D. in Religion from Columbia University. Among his numerous academic awards, Neusner is currently the Ungerleider Distinguished Scholar of Judaic Studies at Brown. His topic on Thursday will be Three Weeks in South Africa: Je.wish Discoveries and Self- Discoveries, and w.ill be ~resented in SSO 1'6 at 4:30. The entire campus community is encouraged to attend. - by c Pol a != two Pro Rol visit an c Ag4 poli Car dorr Adr intn virt.t lead serv• Edit of Klei semi tho~ prrt Cart inau PI I97E retu1 upot Soul had ho.\Yl eleGt. towa Sen a five rath( bid .. w an Dem used nomi cand presi, it w~ of.th the r .. ;w. throt had hand black for Cart~ woul• T ] Th:: and t admir forwa hulidc: ~OUfSI weeke to be fortur help fortu11 In Than Camp food Novet 22. N'< reque1 deposi provic on ca will b• Sche1 Schen and Servic The campt prepai famili< to d01 family Minist recom service The food d Harris Virgin enable partici to the

Wills·KJeillaR ·talk by JOHN BO:NVENTRE election is an importa-nt step ·in uniting the northern and !!OUthern parts of the country .. Prof. Kleiman discussed the .current foreign crises facing the new president. He talked about the SALT talks now \on the shelf; and the bui'ld-l,lp of strategic weapmis by ·both the Soviet Union and the United States. Anot-her problern revolves around the trend toward the left irt many of the Europea'n nations. On Tuesday, Nov. 9, the Politica:I Science Department held a post election discussion with two very distinguished guests, Professors Garry Wills and Robert Kleiman. Garry Wills, a visiting prefessor here at Union· and author of \Nixon Agonistes,\ examined · the political implications of . the Carter victory and the possible domesti€ policy of a Carter Administration. Robert Kleiman,. introduced by Professor Gati as \'a man who has interviewed virtuatly every important political leader in· the world,\ currently serves on the New Yotk Times Editorial board after many years of journalistic service abroad. Kleiman, who will teach a seminar here this winter, reviewed those crl!cial international prrblems· which President~Elect Carter . will have to face. upon inauguration. Kleiman was particularly interested in th~ new Administration's energy policy, since the United States. had· become more dependent upon foreign oil than ever before. Carter will also have to address himself to the :prohlerns in Cyprus, the Middle East, and the normalization of relations with China. Realizing the intensity of the problems facing the Carter presidency, Kleiman said, \You · don:t soive problems, you merely manage them for a while.\ Professors Kleiman and Wills discussing post-election prospects. Professor Will~ described the 1976 presidential election as a return to political tradition based upon Jimmy Carter's sweep of the South .. <for. years, So-utherners had . always voted , Democrat,. he.weve!•_,,,: ·in. - tb.~, , last. .. three. eleati~~Jrts, ,the .. dlrift•.,·has .·h~en· toward the Republicans. Even Senator. Barty Goldwa,ter won five southern s~'ates · during, .his rather fruitless l964 presi<lential bid. After their presentations, Wills Kershner Spea_ks Sports Wills noted that 1976 marked an interesting reversal in Democratic presidential tickets. lt used to be the Democrats would nominate a northern presidential candidate and a· southern vice~ presidential c.andidate .. This ·y.ear it was tne southerner at the top of the ticket and the northerner as the numbet two. man. ·' ' ··WiHs ... c-on·t.Cndeo Lhat throughout the campaign; Carttir'· had kept a comparatively free hand, being indebted only to the blacks who overwhelmingly voted for him. Wills predicted that Carter's record on Civil rights would be excellent and said his Thanksgiving. Food Drive and Kleiman held a question and On Sunday eVening in the answer session. Asked who would b§lsernent pf Richmond, tom. comprise the new .. Cabinet, Kers-hner; ' acting Director ott · Kleiman said he was as mystified Athletics, met with students to as anyone else. He thought that ha•ve an infermative meeting thf:,Cflpiqet might c~Q~ain·,ljlleJl;~n a bout athletics. Discussion·: politics, .or .possibly' men whom immediately moved to the subject we know little about. of women's athletics. Professor Wills, in response to ~ Many students questioned how a question concerning the extensive Kershner's search· for political Feason for the Carte{ women coaches in the past has victory, said that Carter felt he been. In speaking about a held a special Felationship with volleyball coach, the Director of the. people, as if he himself were Athletics stated that he \gave up\ the \mass of people.\ Wills looking for two full-time women's disagre~ wifh Carter's theory, coaches and hired a part-time a~sert~ng Carter:s victory was the coach, e\T\e'n though the resu.H \f ~.h.<:!·-P~mocr..at'~.ahility to de,partment had allocated meney reunite · the old Democratic for a full-time position. coalition of. southern states with Lisa Rogavin proposed the fiOJ:tqer.n ~nd:t~stdal ~tates. 1 initi<~;ti_op of a search committee · tQ · m.tlude two faculty, o_ne administrator and three student members. ,the task of this committee would be to chose two fuiHime woman coaches for the girls' teams. Throughout the rneetingp,Mr'..iKershner said that he·· appreciated the' .concern; but the establishment . of such a committee was not feasible. Later on it was determined by the 50 people who attended this meeting that the method Kershner and other members of the Athletic Department had used this summer to recruit two full-time female coaches was not sufficient to fulfill these goals. By the, end of the· meeting, Tom Kershner did make a decision about the institution of this search committee, which has been set up and- ·will ·meet for the:· first ti nifl' ' .,$ photo by phil a. pino this Thursday. The girls' volleyball team was supposed .to be given physicals, but it never happened. Kershner admitted that he didn't know nH1ch 1 about· this ; m.a:ite'r. ·Diana Kert)'>g1rls~ p!art-tiine fiei·<!I'·fiockeY: coach quoted' the trainer as saying that it was up to the Director of Athletics if the girls required physicals, and Kershner never got in touch with Ms. Kerr. It was bro-ught to the attention of this group how a sufficient physical for the field hockey teatn could be handled by 2 doctors in 2 hours for -28 girls (4 min. per -gitl). Kershner indicated that · the physician was· not available tor 2 - weeks, yet was questioned as to whether there should have been sotheone''c'O\Iet1ng tftit' tllfil'frl nm; Althpugh Kershner received 20' app!idations'' fof\ the''i fUil..:i:l'hl€' ·jobs in women's athletics, he offered the positions to bnly 2 women, both of whom rejected the offer~ and when approached about the possible hiring of a temporary women's coach, Mr. Kershner stated that he felt it would be .a ''Iough thing for a woman to come here for u year and then leave ... Kershner's positions were not unchallenged. Steve Loren asked that if the athle.tic department got a Ned Harkness for hockey and a Tom Cahill for fobtball, why couldn't he get the same for women's sports? No comment was made hy Kershner. Susana Miller made a point that the joh postings for women's coach positions need Thanksgiving is approaching, and Union's stude-nts, faculty, and administrators are eagerly looking forward to one of the few holidays that we do have off.· Of course, more than a long weekend, Thanksgiving is a time to be especially ·aware of how fortunate we are, and how we can help <;>thers who are less fortunate. Professor Tom Kershner, acting Director of Athletics, spoke about womens' sports this past Sundaynight. • be up only for one week and then - \can be taken down,\ and Margy Cohen stated that it may be illegal under :ntle IX not to provide trainers for all teams. whether male or female. In anticipation of Thanksgi·ving, the Newman Campus Ministry is sponsoring a food drive that will run from November 8 through November Campaig~ Coverage Assessed 22. Non-perishabl~ fooq rrems ar!'! Following in the ·traditipn of requested, and. the food may be- encouraging thought-provoking deposited in boxes that will' be discussion of contemporary provide~ in buildings and dorms political and social issues, the o~ camp~s .. The collected goods , Union College Political Forum is will be dtstnbuted to the poor ot presenting . to the Campus Schen-ectady througn the Professor Thomas E. Patterson of Schenectady Inner City Mi~istry the Syracuse University Maxwell and the People's Advisory · School .of Citi7enship and Public Services. Affairs. Patterson, the co-author There are some gro~ps 0n of ''The Unseeing Eye: The Myth campus who have dectded to of Television Power in National prepare baskets for particular Elections,'' a woPk concerned with families. If any group would like the impact which the mass media to ~onate a basket of food to a. has upon ·shaping voter opinions famrly, the Newman Campus during political elections, will Ministry has a list of families speak on Wed., Nov. 17 at 8 p.m. reGommended by the Schenectady in Strauss Lounge (Reception services listed above. . . lmmed iately f oJl O'W in g). · The ~tudents coordmatmg the Patterson has ..Just recently food dnve are John Beown, Patty collected new data on the media' H~r~is?n, ~ark Scott, a?d impact on voters in the newly VtrgmJa Smtth. The food ~nve completed presidential election, enables the whole campus to and · using .this data will discuss participate in a genetous gesture the role which the media played to the community. in the election of the illustrious . - . Nuclear Physicist from Union College. Professor • Paiterson is a freguenf guest on T·. V. nat;ional news programs and is the author of numerous scholarly articles ·and books dealing with Mass Communications and their relationship to Mass Political Behavior. In addition to serving as a Television Commentator for a Bi-weekly news program on WCNY in Syracuse, N.Y., Patterson has contributed articles to Psychology Today, The New York Times Magazine, The Maxwell Review, Congress and Mass t om 1n u n i cations , Cinnpaign Insight, and The Journal Of Communication. At present, Prof. Patterson is the principal investigator for the Social Science Research Council Election Project, .which is funded by a $400;000 grant from ~he Markle Foundation. The project is concerned with the mass media's impact d-urin.g a ·presidential campaign and with voter change during an election, as well as involving a content analysis of media election coverage. The major emphases are media effects and voter behavior in presidential primaries, the effects of party nominating conventions on voter attitudes and information, and the impact of the _gelletal election campaign on voters. Prof. PaHerson's talk should prove to be especially ·relevant and interesting to all campaign huffs in general, and media critics in particular. If yeu share the country's overwhelming astonish.meut over the power .of the media in shaping politiclrl reality and \telling it like it is,\ w~ urge you to drop by Strauss, Lounge, on Wed., Nov. 17 at 8' p.m. Kershner left many questions unsatisfied in regard to women's sports. He could not indicate whether positive action would be taken in the next 3 years to equalize Union's women's sports program. Many left this meeting with feelings of dissatisfaction , · and deep concern. DISCO· PARTY Sponsored By BIG BROTHERS BIG SISTERS NOVo 13 8:30-1:00 50¢ Admission 15¢ Beers

·Page 4 : PERSPECTIVE . . · ' . ' ' November 10, 1976 Perspective's Creative Poetry Corner This issue is proud to present so01e of the ereati,\e W\orks of Mr. ~oseph ~. ~ohnson and Mr. Abdoulai Ha'JUba Through your eyes a representative exits In a light nightfall, Notice beauty, Black images wildly moving against any solid background, Flexibility allows for incorporation of anything in its way to be touched by the results. In a light nightfall, Mellow moods, Love, Felt in touches, Needs not been seen, Black mother's caring for her own, Black women caring for her man, In a light night, Just. before the dark, Seeing the building our nation, represented in your eyes, Looks of power taken from past pain, Wanting to hold onto blackness as a unit, Man, Child, Personal being. In a light night fall, Closing of the day, Opening of Your eyes, Looking to conquer the darkness, In wait, By Joe Johnson Desire Oh, Darkest deep, Black demons asleep, Please awaken, Cast a spell on this black sheep, As her shepherd, I, speak, For pain and agony, to keep ...... . Oh, Deepest darkest demons asleep, Please, cast this spell so I can sleep, I, stay awake and cry and weep, Her body caused me not to sleep, She laughs, Give her my sorrow make her weep, For pain and agony she's to keep .... Oh, blackest ebony that I can find, Oh, horrible hatred, Great beings sublime, Cast a spell you can repeat, For pain and agony, she is to keep, For pain and agony, she is to keep. By Joe Johnson Misconception of a misleading fortune A spH.Ier ~run hi~ lusty web. I he \>.eh he spun throughout the da\. It glo\\Cd a lovely red. Into the trap lle\\ -.c\eral bee-.. Lntangled. not quite dead. Perch..:d upon the hig:he-.t arc. ·1 he 'Pitkr 't:emed 4u1te plt:a~cd. that. ,·wn hug hccamc L'lltangkd \\'hik . Ru,t::;,!~ il'''\l: .tllJ I.tpplll)! \llUIIJ, /lt'i \·''k 11Itll /,Ill \'kcp. hH tflc· 'f1itk·r kilt:\\ rn t11ne. lle'd ·· ·~' !:· d< 'v.r1 t\ lc;;,t B~ .Joe .John..,on America You ask me how I see you? You are, America, A self-made world. -----so liberal ' Tigeress Tigeress, Like your style, your presence sends thoughts into the wildness of space, movements limbs, showing no traces, You are passionate Yankee liberalism. where have you been, representing a life time search. Watching, So frigh·~ening. Yet so true Your sons brimming full with Freudian emphasis Sleep unseen tenderness, overwhelming, Welcome Yankee imperialism from the fields, Laden with muddy glory. a lovely princess, Makes you, Queen in my jungle, Close to you, The Einsteinian cult America ... ! Hence Watergate Hence Vietnam Hence Yankee Crusades Hence your disillusioned sons, burdened, With centuries of growing frustration threaten hollowly, As you sow ..... ...... An American Hamburger Here ... Here ... and there. Just far enough away, Not, to get scratched, Tigeress, Love your style, Running me wild, Rtmning me wild, Running me wild like the thick grass, hold me back, Tigeress perch for now, on Olympis, Yet young America is so hauntingly beautiful. a GODDESS sensation, Glowing as your eyes tell me stories, Enough to say you are important. By Abdoulai .Bamba Finale It's been nice, I can't say it Wasn't fun, Together with you, My first love, Holding hands, Kissing, Reminiscing, You are wonderful, Like the warmth of the sun, On the blackest winter day, Filling the ground with beauty, Giving rise to the spring. My dear, It, couldn't last, Spring turns to fall, Things are now in the past, I'll hold these memories, Forever, Forever, Forever. By Joe Johnson Food For Pride My heart pounds; As memory recollects, The sweet gathering Under the aging baobab, The tom-tom's mournful beat, Under the watchful eyes Of an admiring moonshine, Tending servanb That kept up the spirit. Then the crowd would respond With relea~ed pent-up passion, Pa~~ionate ~lave~ of the Sound-god. Feet would pound Accompanying the rhythmic beat Of a multituded heart-.: I he rne-.~age \\ould spread f-rom heart to heart In that ~lran~e v,a~. I hat Pill\ \\e h;ne. R~ .\bdoulai Ramha By Joe Johnson Substitute means Scholar, Bring me knowledge, I, can't acknowledge, Intelligent, wisdom has past me by, Even giving college a try. Intellectual gentlemen gather around, Curiosity, Judgment, Please sit down, Absurdity!, Enter a circus, see a clown. Insanity, Fool, Overestimated no doubt, Madmen just don't wonder about, Ignoramus can't you see, That you've all underestimated me. Interpretation, interpreter, show these gentlemen my intentions, Stammering on my refreshments, Alcohol, Smoke; Please don't die, You see, Y au have not given college a try. By Joe Johnson Fallacy of a mountain climber We walked along the mountain's edge. I edious were my steps, lrnohed \\ithin m~~df forgetting all the rest, I. couldn't let the challenge torment my gallant stride, I he ~.:all to me came from everyone \come back you'll surely di..:.\ I hctr \\onb nJL·ant rwthrng. I ~cape a\ tlld a ,lip. I I :;n;hlcJ dtJ\\11 till: !litlllfllarn ~tJt::. And. On 1 \ 'Pill 111\ lip. H) .Joe Johmon St~ Much h~ on this c< complain hearing contributic assume it, about the found in activity th: Let me here - th by relative one of the bodies you my FFeshJ undoubted more stud1 to get im but if any be criticiz contributic undoubted Here ar, and figur• Union's st In just th become a has gone programm numbers second m Voice wa detracted Concordy signed up assign. Th formed an Tuesday Speaker's last year a Russell Bl have bee1 clubs such as well pa~tid~ti• be wgislatl no· meanh The COllll1 to exto1 whatever ot disguis1 right tq p comnttimt itself is a i a living c<: dead. The Un. is fat fmt remains th stu<i'e.!\Hl:> as a t:a' provide tl pation · tl communit remain .a develop e even w encourage in eampu~ that this • genuine, bureaucra be. Stude1 great ext~ on campu satisfactio a person group en1 School f( nat uta! shadowed delirious!) accumulal lists of presented battle be admission life will h much the grading nece~sary,

Page4 CONCORDIENSIS, Wednesday, Nov. 10, 1976 Dutch HolloW Revisited Fraterna.l Cup By PAUL CASTRATANO Despite nume.rous and frequent attac:ks on the financial organization and managerial operation of the Dutch HeUow Pub th,ese past few weeks, the consensus of opinion of rhose concerned is that the Pub has been a definite asset to the Union College community both as a social institution and as a meafiS to the advancement of intellectual life on ,campus. There has been of a love .of profit, blJ.l rather because of a policy ruling 'of the Pub's corporation. The corporation, among whose members are Dean Smith (Secretary· Treasurer) and Craig Carlson (Chairman), felt that inexpensive alcoholic beverages dispensed with liberality ·by coHege-backed or:ganizations like the Pub might significantly increase the incidence of Signa Chi was recently ;:~warded campus and to make suggestions the Brown Cup. Established in to the corporation according to 1954, the \Brown , Cup\ is its discoveries. lt was the student awarded each year to the committee that worked to procure fraternity which has distinguished , the television set for the Pub on itself in three categories: academic Election night~ it was the student achievement, intramural standing, committee thM conc.eived, and student activ·ity. It is not pla'llned, and effected the necessarily given to the fraternity Halloween party 2 weeks ago; it is which displays superiority in one the student committee that is or two of the categories, but planning a similar party for t'he rather to the fraternity which coming holiday season; it is the shows the gveatest balance and sttJdent committee that is working highest de\gree of excellence in all with such ideas as a Super Bowl three categories. Sunday with specially priced hot The a<:;ademic index and dogs and beet. It is the student intramural standing of each house committee. in short, that keeps are determined in accordance lhe corporation in touch with the with statistics obtained from the wants and needs of the Union Office ofthe Dean of Students and CoUege community. However, as the Intramural Office, pointed out by committee respectively. The fraternities are chairperson Karen Spar, this is then awarded points on the basis student involvement in its most of their performance in these limited sense: ultimately, the areas, the better the performance, committee is answerable to the the lower the points awarded. jurisdiction of the corporation. It . (I.E. the fraternity with the would seem reasonable to expect · highest academic index receives the committee to enjoy . a one point, while the fraternity by JOHN BONVENTRE the ·fraternity with the most activity points, one point, and the fraternity with the fewest activity points, fourteen points. After all this is· completed, the points each fraternity received in the three categories are added together, and the fraternity with the fewest points wins the ¢oveted trophy. Periodically, the JFC Committee revises the rules and guidelines for winning, the Cup, lt has been suggested that a fourth category be added so as to include community service projects such as those held annually by Chi Psi and Sigma ChL John Eklund, President of the lfC, had the tedious. job of compiling, tabulating, and totalling the statistics. John Kennedy, the Vice-President of the IFC, rechecked Eklund'~ results and Sigma Chi .was -declared this year's winner of the Brown Cup. Angelo Mazzone making the Pub work. . significant degree of influence in with the loWest academic index the determination of the Pub's receives fourteen points.) priorities, for the Pub, though Student activities are divided destined to provide for the into two groups, major activities College community as a Wi:Iole, and minor activities. Four points ultimately receives its greatest and one point are awarded Patronage from the student body. respectively for participation in Ms. Spar hopes that with the major and minor activities. A formatio.n of a committee leadership role in a major activity constitution and the ordering of (e.g. captain of tl'le basketball the committee's physical structure team) is worth six points, while a will come both recognition as a leadership role in a minor activity student activity (as of late the is worth three points. The Brown Cup holds particular; significance this year, a time w~en it has become fashion~le to criticize the fraterna system. ,It .is. a symbol to both ,t : e Administration and indepe dent . students that \partying\ is but a ·small fraction of the fraternal experience. It is a symbol that fraternities. not only \get involved\ with the college community, but in many instances, provide the leadership for ihe community. Says John Ekh,Jnd, \The message that ind~pendents should get from the Brdwn Cu.p is that fraternity men are among the most active and concerned members of Union College.\ much discussion about the less- than-satisfactory monetary situation of the Pub during its first fall term at Union; and some, citing the Pub's internal difficulties and looking back at its springtime successes, have presaged it to a grim future. But t h e S e V i e WS ar e r a t h e r shortsighted understandings of the raison d'etre of the Pub, or of any organization of its kind, and tell nothing of the many benefits and services that the Pub has made available to Unionites since its establishment 8 months ago. Summer Loss It is true that the Pub did unwisely remain open during the summer, and did consequently lose a considerable amount of revenue, owing to the general dearth of students on campus during the months of July and August; and yes, the deficit created thereby · has yet to be rectified, and may not find rectification until the expected booms during the hockey and basketball seasons. But should these monetary considerations be · the sole touchstone of the success or of the virtue of such an oq~anization? Making money has little to do with the ultimate goal of the Pub as defined by Angelo Mazzone,:. the Pub's manager. According to Mr. Mazzone, the Pub strives to be more than just a drinking hall, more than just a classy Rathskeller that serves mixed drinks. The Pub sees itself as a kind of community service organization whose purpose is to increase the range of experience available to the average student of the Union College community by providing the right kind of food, drink, and atmosphere conducive to the informal intellectualization of casual discussion. It is by this prodigious ambition, then. that we understand how well the Pub has succeeded. Indeed, the Pub is not a drinking hall, as examination of the relationship between food and liquor sales bears out. As Mr. Mazzone pointed out, the food sales often exceed the liquor sales by as much as . $400 on weeknights. These figures become more meaningful when we consider the relative altitude. of the liquor prices in comparison with the prices of food. Liquor prices are kept high. not because I ' t J > '·' / ·' \1 • ; ~ I alcoholism and alcohol related crimes on campus. (Last Spring the opening of the Pub was accompanied by an increase in the number , of cases of campus vandalism.) committee is not entitled to Each fraternity submits to the receive any funds from Student }!resident of the IFC a list of its Activities), and respect as a members' activities. The President separate and effective policy tabulates the results, ranks the . Assuming,· then, that the profit motive has little effect on the regulation of Pub policy, and that determining agency.-. fraternities according to activity Bright Future the essential object of the Pub is The Pub's future at IJ nion the aforementioned desire to be a cannot be thought of as anything community service, one might but bright. Manager , Angelo question how tile Pub manages to Mazzone has responded with all survive financially the effects of due speed to the accusations of its pecuniary benevolence. Craig unsatifactory management within Carlson explained it this way: the the Pub, and has effected an Pub tries only to maintain self- extensive revamping of the Pub's sufficiency, and regulates prices internal organizational -structure. only in view of its solvency; in the He claims that he is constantly in event of a surplus or deficit of search of new ideas to ma'ke the funds it is up to the College to Pub \something a little extra absorb the loss or put the gain special.\ Wednesday nights are back into Student Acthdties. Mr. now live entertainment nights; on Carlson also remarked th\it i~ ThUrsdays the Pub often offe-I\s consideration of the gread good special. all-yo.u-can-eat low priced that the Pub is doing for the dinners; every weekday night Union College community, evena from 8 until II, a different very large deficit would not pe . \special drink\ will be served at a looked upon as a great ioss by the special price; plans are being College. drawn up for more discount/ drink nights like the recent Jack Daniels party. The Pub is now prepared to both cater privately and be host to special private parties. Pub Corporation But the success of the Pub, in the long run, rests with the students and the faculty, those to whom the Pub's campaign is directed. The Pub has made certain benefits available for our use, and it is our responsibility to derive what we will from them. All is for nought if allowed to fall into disuse. points, and then, as before, gives .. Trustees and Tenure Last year during the Spring term, there was a great deal of c,onsternation at Union concerning the tenure process and its acceptability within the ' campus community. This debate, came to a head one Sunday night· at the Girling Center; President Bonner had called together student and _faculty _ le~ders to discuss the problem. This meeting, to a large extent, became an emotional shouting match with very little constructive · thought surfadng. At the AU-College Senate on the following Thursday a proposal was introduced t,o place a student on all ad-hoc tenure committees. Questions were raised as to whether or ilot • the Senate was the correct body to deal with this issue inasmuch as the tenure process was worked out only between the faculty and the trustees. As a compromise, President Bonner prQposed that the fo!Jr campus trustees (two faculty and two stUdents) be ask&! to meet together and to try to resolve the problem. These people were chosen because they ' represent the constituencies involved and because, as trustees, have a working knowledge of the tenure process. ln a letter to these tmstees, the President requested that they \consider carefully the current dissatisfaction on the part of some students concerning the tenure process.\ Due to the change-over in faculty trustees caused by the a,ppointment of Trustee Dave Potts to the position of Associate Dean of the faculty, the discussions · among the campus trustees were delayed earlier this fall. However, now that the new ·faculty trustee Professor Thomas of the French Department has been elected, the talks have begun in earnest. Both the students and the faculty have met with their constituencies and many good ideas have surfaced. It is expected that within the next few weeks the four trustees will have finalized their proposals and will submit them to · President Bonner. At this time they will be put through the governance process and, if accepted, will be implemented. It is here that the Pub's corporation, in whose name the Pub's liquor license is held, gains its greatest importance. The corporation, composed of both faculty members and students, meets once during each trimester to make policy decisions, to regulate finantes, to determine whether the Pub has successfully maintained its basic principles of operation, and to give careful consideration to constructive suggeStions to improve the quality of the services the Pub provides. The corporation thus serves as a general overseeing body with the dual purpose of maintaining the non-profit self-sufficiency upon which the Pub is._ based and making certain that current manifestations within the Pub conform with its original outlines. (It was the corponltion that ruled against setting up a televrsion set at the bar. The members felt that a TV might serve as a passive substitute to active conversation and socialization.) Astronom.ers Visit Union Subordinate to this regulating body is the student committee, (virtually unknown to much of the student body, but nevertheless of paramount importance tn the effective operation of ti . ·•1b), whose purpose is to determine the general climate of opinion around by PETER SHORE Last Saturday, Union' College played host to the Astronomical Society of New York. About 40 astroJlomers and researchers attended . the meeting and occasionally students walked in to s~e what was going on. The ·speakers caine from New York and beyond. Representatives from Yale, Cornell, the University of Rochester,. the Dudley Observatory, R PI, Colgate and Uni6n Were at the meeting. The presentations given during the day were highly technical, and it would be inappropriate for someone other than an expert to comment on them. The presentations were generally in one of 2 areas. Most of the papers dealt with new discoveries in a particular field of astronomical Fe~earth. Most of the remaining papers dealt with changes that had occurred In techniques used in doing research. · · There were some papers which were interesting, even though they were highly technical in nature. Two in partku'lar related to thf: 2 pieces of real estate that the US Space Program ha'l> been concentrating on over tite past few years. One pap~r. which was delivert;d by Thomas Gold of Cornell, was entitled · \Lunar Research after Apollo: Are We on the Right Track?\ The other paper, delivered by Dick French, who is also from Cornell, was entitled \How Dusty is the Ma'i'tian Atmosphere'?'; Although the paper-s were difficult to understand, the slide shows and the movies were really magnificent. H nothing else, it shows how astronomy has changed from the days of a white haired old man peering into a telescope at the top of some forbidding -mountain. I Sc ln1 to Nc Co inc Co Ra Co Re Fr Mi M1 spe Th' Ch Sin Ch lse par 1 Sd in ' the are Mi1 Wil for Job ser app [ aud in \ \th{ coU thm COlli reli~ for com IV of t Schj spea des inte1 inte1 14 ; artie the the ] Th \Ana Case. How; Profe Da ill Wl Ju< throu arrest and intere in tl syster camp for t Refte Ele held Libra Ar Law office An been f, Barry tenure comm writ tel cancer reque! sent t cjo Social The sale c Ferdi~ in the Thurs1 a.m. t'

e n h h e h n CONCORDIENSIS, WeClne:sday, Nov. 10, 1976 Interfaith Rite Held At Union by KAREN LEE The lntt:r~faith Community of \' Schenectady speQ.sOted an Interfaith Service ofCommitment to the Future on Sunday, November 7, 1916 at the Union College Memorial Chapel. Guests included .the pt·esident of Union College, Dr. Thomas Bonner, Rabbi Ephraim Zimand of the Congregation Beth Israel, Reverend Carl Tayler of the Friendship Baptist Church, Michael Ruvel, Father James Murphy, and special guest speaker Dr. Franklin H. Littell. The Union College Women's Glee Club and the Agudat Achim Singers, directed by Robert A Christensen and by Dr. Arthur D, Concern for Israel, and the founder and f1rst chairman of the Israel First Study Group. After a warm reception, Dr. Littell presented his speech, \Hope for Ameriea,\ in which ·he lectured about our nation's religious h istoty, \'religious ~iberty,\ and \on entering the third century, why we may have hope in America.\ Following Dt. Littell's speech, Father James Murphy said a prayer of commitment and in conclusion, all sang the \'Bicentennial Hymn\ with the accompaniment .of a brass choir from Nisk<tyuna High School. \ From left to right are: William A. Haase, chairman of the Inter-Faith Community of Schenectady's Bicentennial Task Group; Father George C. Gagnon, pastor of the Church ofthe Sacred Heart and St. Columba; Dr. Norman B, Johnson, who arranged the service; Dr. Bon~er and Michael Ruvel executive director of the Jewish Community Center and Council and president of the Inter-Faith Community, sponsor ofthe service. I senber'g, res pectiv·ely, also participated. The Inter-faith Community of Schenectady was formed in 1971 in order to develop unity among the various religious groups which are represented.in the community. Minister Davii:l Risseeuw and William Haase;. w~re responsible for this event and Dr. Norman Johnson, conductor of the servi,ce, eXpressed his appreciation. Dr. Bonner greeted the audience with a welcome ~peech, in which he recognized Union as \the first nondenominational college.\ He added that even though it is a nonsectarian college, it is still concerned with religion, and eXpressed his hope for \a sense of rmewal and commitment.\ Michael R uvel, the president of the Inter-faith Community of Schenectady; inftbduced ·· gl.lest speaker Dr. Franklin H. Littell by describing him as an internationally known figure in inter-faith relations, the author of 14 books and over 200 major articles. In addition, Dr. Littell is the co-founder and president of the Organization for Christian .... , Pre-Law The Pre-Law Society presents: \Anatomy of a Manslaughte·r Case,\ the famed spe,ech ~f Judge· Howard A. Levine; an Adjunct Professor at Albany Law School. Date: Thursd~y, Nov. 18 Time: ''8:110p:iii: Wh~re: West College Library Judge Levine will take you through the case from time of arrest to conviction 1 acquittal and this should be especially interesting for students interested in the workings of the legal system. Everyone on and off campus is requested to be there for this will not be repeated. Refreshments will be provided. Elections for all offices will be held Nov. 19 in West College Library at 4 p.m. A representative from Ver·mont Law School will be in the · P. $; · office Nov. 18, ~-12 a.m .. · ' . An ad hoc committee has just been formed to evaluate Professor Barry Smith for promotion and tenure at Union College. The committee would like to receive written statements from, students concerning Pro(essor Smith and requests that all st11tements be sent to Professor Erik Hansen, cf o Departmen~ of History, · Social Sciences Building. There will be an exhibition and sale of original graphic art by Ferdinand Roten Galleries, Inc., in the College Center lobby on Thursday, November ll, from J I a.m. to~7 p.m. Union Transfer Trends Discussed ' ' BY JAN£T CHAPMAN Practically ever,yone thinks of transferring at one · time or another, but how ma'lly go through with it? Since so many students are Lnterested inthisissue, Concordy decided to-take a closer look at the figures, Feasons and trends- of transferring. Not until two years ~tgo was this issue studied in any depth; when Dean Smith took ov,er the responsibility of handlin~ student withdrawals. With his added students transfer to other schools offering courses which Union doesn't, such as education or medical technology. However, few students transfer to the \'ivy league\ schools, a figure which really surprised Dean Smith. Ano·ther major reason for transferring is financial problems, where some students feel that a Union education isn't worth the money. Other less· frequently stated reasons are personal problems, academic difficulties or dissatisfaction with the campus atmo~phere. TRENDS be lower than that of today. Sure of ttansfe.r students from the enou~ht,.. iP. ... the school· year '65-- l<l,~'!}Je • ()f. -incoming transfers. '66, 23 students .. out of an alLm~J:le 'D~J~!~§ yefl(S 1950-1970, a total undergraduate division ofl307, nr · nithibet 'of '429 transfer students 1.8·%, transferred. . In the year were enrolled into Union, '74-'75, 32 men and '27 women out anywhere from 5 to 41 students of an enrollment of 1995, or transferred in each year. By '73- ~.2% , transferred. Whereas in the '74, the trends had changed; 81 school year '75-'76, 32 men and 22 were enrolled. A drop in the trend women out of an enrollment of for the following year, 48 transfer 2013, or 2.0% transferred. Upon students, didn't amount to much comparing these figures Which significance, as the transfer were obtained from ·the registrar enrollment increased the next two and Dean Smith, one must years to 101 and 97. · interest in analyzing statistical ~rends, £?ean Smith is compiling mformahon on the phenomen<tn of transferring. The national trend has been to Surprisingly enough, he has transfer from one college to found these figures deal. with only another without much trouble. 2 - 3% of the student body. It This trend explains .the growing seems that the other percentage number of transfei· applicants who do talk of transferring just here at' Union. Unfortunately, like to gripe, or would like to get Dean Smith is presently unable to out but can't. Many, we suppose, compare Union's transferring have probably resolved their trends to thO'se of other colleges, frustrations by taking a term as most colleges don't compile. consider the fact that a statistical Ms. King explains this trend as discrepancy exists between the being due to a number of factors, two sources' records. The reason primarily, the recent emphasis on may be that the registrar used to continuing education in receive the withdrawal figures community colleges. Th'e ' 1 itiain frorr,t the Dean~s office. After they reason according to Ms. King, received the ftgures, there were that transfers come to Union is always adjustments made due to dissatisfaction with the academic last minute changes. life at their former schools. As an · abroad or taking time out as a such information and wouldn't visiting student at another school. reveal it if they did. Hovever, he According to Dean Smith, is able to examine Union's trends when analyzing the reasons for as the registrar has kept statistical transff'rrin·& one must consider records, although has not retained that students don't always write the reasons. Another consideration is overall comparison of programs whether the ratio of male to of study, 20.6% of the transfers female transfers is. proportional to have entered into Union's science the male-female ratio on campus. program, 30 o/t into the liberal arts This could indicate another and 43.2% into the engineering reason for transferring. After program . looking at last year's statistics, Money is anot·her big factor o~e wouldn't find any noteworthy explaining why students choose to differences. The total number of transfer into Union after two maledropoutswasl54andthatof years. Due to economic women was 73, a ratio of 2.1:1 difficulties, increasingly more which is just about equal to the people. are attenQing two year 2.2:1 ratio of the whole student colleges and move on to four year down their real, reason for leaving Years ago, people didn't when they compiete the transfei, \it just wasn't done.\ withdrawal form. When it comes \'Family attitudes towards kids down to numbers, he said, '\Th~re have changed,\ ·according to are almost as many reasons as --Bean--Smit)T;-whictrim-s-.enabled people.\ students to take part in this ho,h; In f\\t' A.,r;ng· .n.e s~~·hool I'n~•: ... ,;· ~ns ... :.h1'n •L~ ·• l .. t v -J.. • ... \ ....... , uu 'I-' Lll \,.. !.:)u-.uc u• vuu u•~ 10ca 1 ·y. year '75-'76, comparatively fewer Thus, a special financial fund has women than men have dropped been set up for transfers. Other out. common reasons are adjustment After categorizing the formally emancipation movement. written reasons, Dean Smith has ,Considering the cultural found the major reason to be changes, one would hypothesize dissatisfaction with Union's that the percentage transferring academic programs. Many out of Union IO•years ago would by Dean of Students,Mark Smith, discussing transfers. INCOMING TRANSFERS The number of incoming transfers is very much related to U?ion's attrition rate. Jay Shupe, Duector · of . Admissions, explained that the College's long run enrollment plan calls for a maximum number of 2,000 students. Due to multiple reasons such as class size, budgetary concerns, and dorm space, the College tries to keep each class bakl,nced; . thus, .a fairly stable number of freshmen are admutted each year. Even though the number of freshman applicants has increased steadily within the past four years by about 700, the number accepted and enrolled has remained fairly constant. Transfer students fill in the gap created by withdrawals in order to prevent a shrinking enrollment. Similar to the trend of increasing freshman applicants, there has been a growing number of - transfer applicants. Speculating upon the future, Mr. Shupe believes the population decline will affect us in another 6 to 7 years which could lead to a possible decline in the freshman enrollment, in which case a greater proportion of transfer students would be accepted. Joanna King, Union's recently appointed Assistant Director of Admissions and Transfer Coordinator, explained the trends . problems to schools or dissatisfaction with the school's size. Out school actively recruits students in area junior and community colleges. Those students with an Associate in Arrts or Science degree and who are recommended by their respective colleges enter Union with the equivalent of junior status. When comparing transfer students· with the freshman classes, Ms. KiQg finds mast of · them would have been acceptable as freshmen. Mr. Shupe, in discussing admission-; at mid- college versus immediately after high school, said that we regularly admit transfers who have shown their high school records to be an inadequate indicator of their scholastic ability in college. When comparing transfers to the rest of the student body, Ms. King finds them more mature as they have \rather definit.e expectations. of , the institution and themselves.\ The long term statistics of transfer students can be fascinating. One interesting example is the fact that of the 122 dropouts from last year's first tWo terms, 61 have already come back. Dean Smith is correlating these people's reasons for leaving against those who have left for good and he plans to examine the transfers' grade point averages and class year.

Page6 CONCORDIENSIS, Wednesday, Nov. 10, 1976 •culture Mel Blanc Reviewed Mel Blanc doing one of his thousand voices. Last Wednesday night S,S. 016 was filled beyond legal capacity when ovef two-hHndred fifty anxious students, children, and a<;iults turned out to see the. man who has had the most influence on this generation's concept of humor. I'm not referring to W 0 ody Allen, Charlie Chaplin., or Groucho Marx. but to a man who speaks t-0 us on a mo~e universal level. to all peo·ple at all ages. I am speaking a bout Mel B:lanc. J: or an hour and a hall he spoke, or rather they spoke. because Mr. Blanc .. did\ about twenty voices in his repetn;)ire of over two hundred characterizations. If he did only that, only go through the motions of j0ke telling or voice reproduction, an audience would haw been content. Everyone loves to hear Porky Pg, Yosemite Sam, Da(fy Duck and the others, but you can get that any Saturday morning that you care to gt!l up early. Baker Series Presents Architecture Lecture l-rederll:k U. J\ichols. Langhorne Professor of Architecture at the Univer~ity of Virgmia, will dehve.r the Walter C. Baker Le<:•'!re in Arts and Civllii.atwn ai Union College. I hursday, 1\jovcmber, IK Prof. J',jichob Will speak on \Jefterson's Influence on American Architecture'' at H:30 p.m. in Memonal Chapel. Prot. ;\i ichols is the author ol a number of books on American architecture. His \Early Architecture of Georgia\ won the Hitchcock Medal in 1957. Pmf. ;';;idlUb has been the Cary D. Langhorne Professor at the University of Virginia since 196 7 and chairman of the university's . division of architectural histor~ since 1972. He i~ a member of the Monticello Restoration Commission and the Virginia Historic Landmarks Commission. Thomas Jefferson wa~ a di~tinguishcd architect. Among hi~ de~igns wa~ the campus of the University of Virginia, built in 1817-27. Paul Goldberger of the New York Times has called the campus \posibly the finest group t'he ..§ocia 1 tommittee_ Presents oo'riY/~lfn[{i e ren~ate - ~ . , ;jaturdflJJVov.2o at 730 & 1030 Jl m. s 2.50 adm. includes 3 drinb 6 cheese letServ. taken starfilfJ Thurs. the 111!! at atud ~ct To be held tn Old of puhlic huildings in the lln·ited States.\ Due primarily to the work of Prof. Nichols. the I Jniversity recently restored the ·central Rotunda of .the campus to Jefferson's o rigi na I design. It had been altered hy another distinguished 19th century architect. Stanford White. The Walter C. Baker Lectureship in Arts and Civiiimtion was estahlished in 197> hy a gilt of Mrs. Lois W. Baker, of New York, in memory of her husband. Walter Baker, who died in 1971, was a 1915 graduate of Union College and a ;nember of the college's board of trustees for nearly 40 years. He was chairman of the board for 22 years. The public is invited to the lecture at no charge. On Saturday, November·6, the Theatre Artists Program of the Arts Department, in association with the Union College Social Committee · and the Mountebanks, pres'ented DaeDalus Production's version of the Bram Stoker novel, Dracula, adapted by the producer, John Adams. The adaptation itself was extremely literate and Chcg>eZcAyyPfriate atttrejjadets sw , sophisticated, dabbling not only in vampire legends but with the . entire range of the occult. What also made this production interesting was that it was faithful to the novel. The focus of -the production was not on the Count, as was lhe case in the Bela Lugosi film and every other tacky remake after it, but on Jonathan Harker, ,fACUlTY --STAFF TALENT SHOW ·cabaret Benefit Union College Child Care Center Thurs .. , Nov. 11 Shows at ~ and ll; $2. ·admission. Singing and instrumental-music. Also guitar and poetry reading. STARRING: Chal'lie Tidmarch Ed Craig John Sollazzo David Mendelowitz Susanna Miller Bob Wells · Paul LeClerc Joe Zolner Tom Galantowiez Come join us ·at either 9 or U. Support th~ l)ay Care Center. SORORitiES AT UNION? TWO sororities _are presently forming on the Union College campus. There will be an open ca-mpus meeting fot . all interested membe.rs o.f the campus community. Come and air y,our views. Wednesday, Nov. 17 7:00 Strauss Lounge All those int~rested in sororities who cannot attend this meeting, please contact: Judee Rosenberg, · 346-9848; Liz Yager, 346-9848 or Lisa DeGroot, 3 70-6434. There 'has to be .something special when the man wh·ose voice has kept us occupied when our parents used the T.V. fo.r a baby sitter presents himelf to us in p.erson. There was something very special last Wednesday night. The audience began to understand a lot more about Mel Blanc a~ a person. 1't might have bee,n shock. Here was a man, a human being, speaking the voices l used to associate with gray figures no higher than my arm (I never 'saw those cartoons .in color unri:l I was seventeen or so). WARMTH Heyond the· shock, there was a real warmth about the man. His stories atmu t his ups and downs in show business set up a rapport with an audience that was expecting, perhaps, enly a comedy routine. Instead of David Steinberg. here was a man in his late sixties. He needed a cane to walk. His jokes· didn't always work. He even torgot· he was. in Schenectady. h really didn't matter. When it W<\S all·over, we aH Went out with a glow that started in our hoatts fhat reached all the way up to t:he grins on our faces; grins that we, in our most cynical ye;us, haven't had since we were children. watching Bugs Bunny Ol,ltwit Elmer Fudd and 'the Tasmani(:ln ·Devil dril'lthrough salid tock. Speakers Forum got Mr. Blanc to tome here (i..e. money changed hands 11nd a time was sch·cduled). It prohahly was no hig logistical deal I'm sure Mr. Blanc was listed in a tatalngHc somewhere with a 4Hoted price that inclu<ted travel expenses: that's not important. What is ilnportant i~ that Speakers Forum realitcd that if there was one man who spoke to our commoJ'l cultural heritage (going on three generations), that man was Mel Blanc. · ·Professor Frederic Nichols, .the Baker Lecturerfor this term. the innocent victim of Dracula's blood lust, and the struggle to cope with the effects of evil. The production was simple and evocative, using a set made up of tombstone-like backdteps and a few simple pieces of furniture. This gave the director remarkable flexibility with his staging. There was an effective use of make-up and masks that made a young cast look very convincingly middle-aged. Staging in some scenes was the main emphasis, especially in Jonathan's dream sequences. One stunning part was when Jonathan, strapped in a strait jacket in a mental hospital, \saw'' Dracula take overan·entire ship, literally sucking the blood out of an entire crew. This scene ended the first act, and it left many audience mouths agape, waiting for more. - . The acting struck just the right note between terror and melodrama, with occasional bits of humor thrown in. The COiDpany Is very experienced in presenting this play, having done sixteen performances in twelve towns before coming to Union. It was dear from the start that the audience was going to see a professional company perform, and no one in the full house that night went away disappointed. This· .campus needs to have professional performers perform here mote .often. TAP, Social Committee and the Mounte- banks are to be congratulated for bringing DaeDalus to Union, and we hope to see more in the future. Artist To Discuss Films ihe internationally known photographer and .film-·tnaker Elliot · Erwitt will discuss .his photography Wednesday; Nov. l7 at ;Unian College. As part of the lecture, which is sponsored by the Union College Arts Department, Erwitt Will show his film, lltauty Knows No Pain. Free to the publk, the lecture will be at 4:30 p.m. in Rm. 016 of the Social Science building. Erwitt has· had a number ·of one~man shows of photographs at such institutions as the Museum of Modern Art and the Smithsonian Institution. He is a principal member of Magnum, an international photographic cooperative. · Erwitt's photographs reflect a r.are sense of humor and ·compassion. He is, in the words of one artist, \a master at portraying the mornent when we most reveal ourselves as human.\ gh: Sh lo< Bi! to 2. YOI the Kh de1 fro the to wa fro wa: 651 I J Jal say adc; six dul the ne:x p.n: the farr a:lb1 Cm saic Jail

sin dn't we that our incc and was not i~ pe, nd in .It a ed. for )[ a a \ CONCORDIENSJS, Wednesday, Nov, 10, 1976 .. Page 7 culture •·. ' • '• • • • • • • < ·, • • - • ' ' • - ' • • • • arts Tickets are now on sale for \'Peer Gynt,\ which opens Friday. Gong Show Looks For Performers Do you want to attain glory or glamour? Then the Cabaret Gong Show is not for you. We are looking for raw talent to· present. Big acts. small acts if you want to become famous on December 2. the Gong show is for you. If you can walk and chew gum .at the same time, or play \Eine Kleine Nachtrnusik\ on your dentures. then obtain a release from your sanitarium and get to the Cabaret. We are offering an alternative to the usual 2() minute act. We want 'you to put together an act from one to five minutes. If you want to perform, contact Marj at 6510, Sue at 6702 or John at 6412. Or you can sign the list at the Cabaret before November 22. This is a legitimate contest, judged by a carefully screened panel. We will be presenting prizes to the winners of each show. The acts will be judged on a scale from I to 10, but if after 45 seconds, any merriber of the panel wants to keep his sanity, he may \gong\ the contestant. If you don't want to act, but still want to help out on ot-her aspects of the show, contact John 6412, Sue 6702 or Marj 6510. This show will be successful only if we get your help. You can help make the. Cabaret Gong Show a hit! Coffeehouse Hosts Brockett performer ever to have played at 'Peer Gynt' Premiers Friday Henrik lbserfs fantasy, Peer Gynt will open this Friday, Saturday and Sunday at 8 p.m. in the Nott Memorial Theatre. Tickets are on sale daily from 2-5 p.m. in the Nott box office. The play, which will be done entirely in the round, offers something for everybody. Ibsen's proquction. includes a romp through a Troll Kingdom, a visit to a mad house, in addition to acquainting the audience with the Devil. Love affairs, deaths, drownings and a brid.e kidnapping are all features. Peer Gynt a(fers talks with God and King Hussein, plus selections from a church choir. The play is a classic, a comedy and a love affair.. all rolled into one. Mountebanks' show is a unique interpretation of Ibsen's play. The new lighting, · set construction, and costumes aid the final product. The piece is being done by an ensemble with different actors portraying the various aspects of Peer's personality. Performances will be this weekend, Nov. 12-14 at 8 p.m. and again November 17-20 at 8 p.m. in the Nott Memorial theatre. Tickets, on sale now, are 75¢ for Union Students and $1 for faculty members. Tickets must be purchased in, person as no phone teservaHons will be accepted. For ticket information please call 370-6153 during box office hours. photo by julie seeger Jaime Brockett, of whom Mike Jahn of the New York Times says, ·\A talented singer,\ ••An adept musician on twelve string, six string, banjo, autoharp, and dulcimer\ will be performing at the Union College, Coffeehouse nex:t .tuesday; ·N;o\r. · · L6 at 8:30 p.m. B.rool<ett,. whose \Legend of the USS Titanic\ has led him to fame; . has recorded several albums. Rick Judd, writing for Concordiensis several years ago said \It's been said by some that Jaime Brockett is the best Union.\ Starting off the show will be a folk music trio consisting of Prof. George Reynolds, J.C. Belleman, Union College's Jazz Ensemble will be in concert in Memorial Chapel, Friday. ' and Ruth Rappaport.· This Friday, the Coffeehouse will present a. singer~ guita.ristf' aild:}l~rin6nica :Playetfrom Nurth . The Northeastern New York Ca.roiina. Tam. Dews will' charm Youth Orchestra will , present the audience with his music and works by Tchaikowsky, Benjamin stories. Also playing w1fl be Palty- Britten,, a~d _Carl Maria von Jo Pinto, who has played at Weber m Its first concert of the various places with a big success 1976-77 season Tuesday, at the Beef and Brew. That's this November 23 . Musical Events Upcoming Friday at 8:30. The concert, free to the public, will begin at 8 p.m. in Union College's Memorial Chapel. Emory Waters, assistant professor of music at Union, will conduct. . Jamie Brockett, this week's coffeehouse performer. ~ .. ·h. s,llfl -:1. ·~·_,,,,.j:'lmJ ~li~.t''l ''·:am The orchestra will play Carl Maria von Weber's festive .. Jubilee Overture;'' \Soirees Musicales,\ a suite of short movements based on tunes by Rossini and orchestrated by Benjamin Britten; and one of Tchaikowsky's lesser-known early symphonies, Symphony No. 2 in C minor Op. 17 (l:llso known as the \Little Russian\ because of the resemblance of many of its ,melodies to Ukranian folk tunes). The 70-member orchestra is made up of players from Union College, area high schools, and other area colleges. Ranging in age from II to 21 years, the players attend the orchestra's weekly rehearsals from as far away as Glens Falls. The Youth Otchestra was established ih 1965 by Edgar Curtis, professor of music at Union College, as a means to give students at Union College and area high schools the experience of playing in a full symphonic . orchestra. In its H , years, the orchestra has won high praise from critics for the maturity of its -tone. Emory Waters has been . director of the orchestra since SANDERLINGS 1973. A member of the Albany Symphony and Musica Viva, he is also a composer. At U nioq College he teaches composition, twentieth century music literature, and electronic music. A flock of sanderlings, white as snow, wheeling in like a sudden thought, light all together at the water's edge, run down sand close to fhe water. Their little heads jab downward and retract, beak catching a morsel, swiftly the heads like weaver's shuttles, down up, down up, flicking the sand, before art incoming wave retreating, all in unison, a hundred little legs flexing, the whole flock skimming as if a wind blew them. Suddenly without warning, they all arise, a hundred little wings fanning the air, compact unit over the breakers rising, northward they turn and disappear. And now nothing, only the water and sand, a quiet room where love has ended. $ -Fred Lape (from Poems from the Blue Beach) Send your poems for publication in Fine Lines to box 1738, , in the mailtoom. Poems printed unsigned on request. Questions and comments also welcome. We want to hear from you! l.\ . .. _._'_·' H. ,,, ···'.. ...~ .. \ ;,c '• •• ~ _ .. _.·-·-J! '1\f' .... <'\.._..•_. __.. ....... -- ------ - . ·-~ -~ ..... __ .,.., --- ... --· ·---·\\'\\' ~-\\,.._ ... _ _,_,_ .... _ ..... _.., ..

Page&· , . -· CQtU;ORDIENSIS, Wednesdqy, Nov. 10, 1976 \': -~-~- ~ : - . • .!', .. -·. ~ - -- \ ..... _ .. _. ·~ . . . .. . ' -~ ... NAT Loss positive response. there is a mi*\t.iP in his Over the summer, Ker$hner .deparctrnel)f? He dis~o\lraged all Sunday night, -an attempt was had 20 applications for the 2 full~· positive sentiments at the m~eting by MS. KAREN SPAR m(lde fo have an informative time w.om<.>n's openings. He and avoid~d tnan-y questi9l'!S, as meeting with the acting Director offered the jobs to only 2 p~ople, well as beh1g ignorant to \\many 1t was a foregone conclusion that tile non-academic of Athletics, Tom Kershner. First Did he give the others a tatr incidents. Should the Athletic transcript was . doomed to fail. Last Thursday'~ Senate of all, it was not a llle!:ting, and shake? Djrector be· inforrn~d once ·again. secondly, it was not ·very This meeting was a, culmination about What · i!! going oil . with meeting was but the official death knell for a lost proposal. informative. · of several meetings. with the athletics ·here? Is there a solution Last Spring the Senate pas !led the NAT \in spirit.\ But, like Countless .suggestions were females on campl)s, inchtding a to this lack of ~ommunication? so many of the Senate's .. spiritual votes,\ this theoretical made including a search visit to his home. How many Perhaps someone else will have support failed to materialize ·in any concrete fashion. The committee to find two fulMime times does Tom Kersll\(Ier have to the magic solution. because .it defeat of this student proposed p· ieee of legislation was coaches and someone to do the be \enlightened: before he realizes appears that Tom ~Kershner · odd jobs dealing with the courts doesn't. · particularly sad. · and uniform·s, if the temporary ..• --.. ......... -,_..,.--..,.._.....,.__,..__,.,......,.__,.........,~::---,.._----,_....,__._ __ .,.,....._.....,. At every turn the faculty asserted their opposition to and female coaches can?t. ·Torn. . d~rided the NAT . It eveq was implied that if the proposal 'Was' Kershner acknowledged · t>he~ pa!!sed, ~ome: faculty. me;mbers mig'hf refuse 'to partiCipate:~ in suggestions, but offered ' no . ·-- the program anyway! After toying (literally) with the ·p.roposal positive indication of acceptance; One would think that the party in ' for over an hour, the issue was put to a vote. Thi!i vote, question would respond in some· • however, was not on the NAT; rather, it was a vote on the way other than that redundant . emasculated piece of meaningless legislation that survived the •yes'; instead, the athletic director · faculty) tir~u:!es~ wore earmuffs. ··· Strategically, the faculty was brilliant. Through the The women brought things to • mind that he never knew about. amendment proced\lres they reduced the originally strong One example is the women~s NAT proposal to an empty, insignificant shell. Along the way, volleyball team not receiving even the support of the student senators began to ·erode: The,. physicals. Throughout th~ faculty voted unanimously against ·the legislation, the student evening, Kershner ·kept ~ying · how he was \enlightened\ hy the· vote was split,, and the N~ T was o~erwhelmin?IY .defeat~~- .. .s':meeting.' It's quite depressing to The Senate s charge th1s year 1s mor~ senous than . 1t has . ,,hear that our athletic (lireetor been in the past, Faced with academic and:·<:tpp.lioant :pr.oblemr:L:\.does •f!ot know what is goil}g, O(l' .: ai}d a deficit~nt U);lion feputation, this body muswri~-e! t6!:the u:!:Un. d:r his nose. He conceded th~ · k> .. • • •' · · · d · '· · • 1 .• , . f l · . · . · t · ., \l{{t~. ·r_.,-h(l.,dearned m.ore . nowand baa,:{ ~·:; ,S}jtp~J~?P., .aq , · ; e)1.~~t h( ,m~a~(h~u ' 1 I_l~ovative . ~~~· · s. used his mistakes up in the faiP' Artythi.ng short of such actiOns would be a derelictiOn of Is that .any way a Director of duties. Athletics as well as Chairman of· We are critical of the Senate's negative vote on the NAT the Economics Pepartment is : and can only hope that procedural trivialities and status quo supposed ·to . ha!ldle . himself? · . . . . Kershner also mdtcated that-he de~end~rs do not thwart the passage of the substantive had· \too much responsibility.\ legislatiOn that the college needs so desperately. On the subject of the search Recently there has ~n much discussion concerning whether or not Union should have a Junior Varsity iee hockey team. As usual, the facts of the issue have been clouded and confused by rumor, misinformation, personal opinion and so forth. The decision against expanding the hockey program to include a J. V. squad has been made and reaction to the decree has been considerable. Athletic Director Tom Kershner· has had to absorb, unjustly, the brunt of tHe malice and abuse gef}erated by this decision .. It is time that the facts of the issue ;:,:; .. · weri ·CI~ady. stat~d~ \ .·. , .. · · . .. · , · .~· · First of all, the decision was a decision ag~inst the ~re~tip~ of a new squad. It is not a case of an existing squad being · cancelled, as many people believe. The resolution Was not made by Tom Kershner. Rather, it was agreed upon last May by the Athletic Committee, which, like all school committees, consisted of students, faculty, and administrators (including Bruce Allison who was A.D. at that time). The Committee made its judgement after considering such factors as the additional expenses a-nd amount of ice time involved. For some reason, although the decision was made months ago, students had been practicing for over a manth to play on a J. V. hockey team. Apparently the students were under the impression that there was going to be a J. V. · team this year and were, after devoting over two hours a day to practice, justifiably angered when Prof. Kershner reasserted the school's decision ten days ago. These players have criticized Kershner for acting unfairly and have begun circulating petitiohs for, the ••reinstatement\ of the team. However, if the players are upset with the actions of anyone they should be upset with the actions of their coach. He knew since last May that a J . V. team was not authorized and that funds for a team had nat been allocated in this year's budget. Why practices were conducted for so long is unknawn; surely the students involved would have rather not spent theit time practicing for games they were never to play. It seems possible that by producing a flesh-and-blood squad, the coach was trying to pressure the Athletic Department into changing a decision which was agreed upon long ago by an authorized committee of the school. Whatever the coach's intentions were, it. is obvious that students were used as pawns in a blatant political power play by the coach against the Athletic Department. We agree with the ultimate decision, since it was made months ago. However. we condemn the way in which the students involved treated. committee proposal, tbe Athletic Director avoided the issue all evening ·until the girls at ·the meeting pressured liim into a decisiQn by 10:00 Tuesday mor'Oing. After numerous . attempt~. aU day, )ong by . gi'rls,- : ,Kershner ·was .reached at qp~e at, 8:00 and came t~rou~h with ~; ,.-·. ' . ~ ' - ~- · .. •.•• ·o;- ,: I t 1 tl b . tl r: g a

Page8 .CONCORDJENS/S, Wednesday, Nov. 10, 1976 EDIT·ORIALS NAT Loss It was a foregone conclusion that the non-academic transcript was doomed to fail. Last Thursday's Senate meeting was but the official death knell for a lost proposal. Last Spring the Senate passed the NAT ''in spirit.\ But, like so many of the Senate's \spiritual votes,\ this theoretical support failed to materialize in any concrete fashion. The defeat of this student proposed piece of legislation was particularly sad. At every turn the faculty asserted their opposition to and derided the NAT. It even was implied that if the proposal was passed, some faculty members might refuse to participate in the program anyway! After toying (literally) with the proposal for over an hour, the issue was put to a vote. This vote, however, was not on the NAT; rather, it was a vote on the emasculated piece of meaningless legislation that survived the faculty's tirades. Strategically, the faculty was brilliant. Through the amendment procedures they reduced the originally strong NAT proposal to an empty, insignificant shell. Along the way, even the support of the student senators began to erode. The faculty voted unanimously against the legislation, the student vote was split, and the NAT was overwhelmingly defeated. The Senate's charge this year is more serious than it has been in the past. Faced with academic and applicant problems and a deficient Union reputation, this body must rise· to the· situation and enact meaningful, innovative measures. Anything short of such actions would be a dereliction of duties. We are critical of the Senate's negative vote on the NAT and can only hope that procedural trivialities and status quo defenders do not thwart the passage of the substantive legislation that the college needs so desperately. Power Play Recently there has been much discussion concerning whether or not Union should have a Junior Varsity ice hockey team. As usual, the facts of the issue have been clouded and confused by rumor, misinformation, personal opinion and so forth. The decision against expanding the hockey program to include a J. V. squad has been made and reaction to the decree has been considerable. Athletic Director Tom Kershner has had to absorb, unjustly, the brunt of the malice and abuse generated by this decision. It is time that the facts of the issue were clearly stated. First of all, the decision was a decision against the creation of a new squad. It is not a case of an existing squad being cancelled, as many people believe. The resolution was not made by Tom Kershner. Rather, it was agreed upon last May by the Athletic Committee, which, like all school committees, consisted of students, faculty, and administrators (including Bruce Allison who was A.D. at that time). The Committee made its judgement after considering such factors as the additional expenses and amount of ice time involved. t:or some reason, although the decision was made months ago, students had been practicing for over a month to play on a J. V. hockey team. Apparently the students were under the impression that there was going to he a .J. V. team this year and were, after devoting over two hours a day to practice, justifiahly angered when Prof. Kershner reasserted the school's decisiOn ten days ago. I hese players have critJcJzed Kershner for acting unfairly and have begun circulating petitions for the \reinstatement\ of the team. H owevcr, if the players arc upset with the actions of anyone they should be upset with the actions of their coach. He knew since last May that a J. V. team was not authorized and that funds for a team had not been allocated in this year's Why practices were conducted for so long is unknown; sure! the students involved would have rather not spent their ti practictng lor games they were never to play. It seems possihl that by producmg a llesh-and-hlood squad, the coach wa. trying to pressure the Athletic Department into changing decision which was agreed upon long ago hy an authori1ed committee of the school. Whatever the coach's intentions were. it is obvious that the studenb were used as pawns in a blatant political power play hy the coach against the Athletic Department. We agree with the ultimate decision. since it was made months ago. However, we condemn the way in which the students involved were treated. Opinion: Women's Sports Meeting positive response. there is a mix-up in his by MS. KAREN SPAR Over the summer, Kershner department? He discouraged all Sunday night, -an attempt was had 20 applications for the 2 full-· positive sentiments at the meeting made to have an informative time women's openings. He and avoided many questions as meeting with the acting Director offered the jobs to only 2 people. well as being ignorant to many of Athletics, Tom Kershner. First Did he give the others a ta1r iacidents. Should the Athletic of all, it was not a meeting, and shake? Director be informed once again secondly, it was not very This meeting was a culmination about what is going on with informative. of several meetings with the athletics here? Is there a solution Countless suggestions were females on campus, including a to this lack of communication? made including a search visit to his home. How many Perhaps someone else will have committee to find two full-time times does Tom Kershner have to the magic solution, because it coaches and someone to do the be 'enlightened' before he realizes appears that Tom ' Kershner odd jobs dealing with the courts doesn't. and uniforms, if the temporary.-------_.:..------~...:...:..---~------~ female coaches can't. Tom Kershner acknowledged these suggestions, but offered no. positive indication of acceptance. One would think that the party in question wo1:1ld respond in some way other than that redundant 'yes'; instead, the athletic director wore earmuffs. The women brought things to mind that he never knew about. One example is the women's volleyball team not rece1vmg physicals. Throughout the evening, Kershner kept saying how he was \enlightened\ by the 'meeting.' It's quite depressing to hear that our athletic director does not know what is going on under his nose. He conceded that he \'learned more now and had ' used his mistakes up in the fall.\ Is that any way a Director of Athletics as well as Chairman of the Economics Department is supposed to handle himself? Kershner also indicated that he had \too much responsibility.\ On the subject of the search committee proposal, the Athletic Director avoided the issue all evening until the girls at the meeting pressured him into a decision by 10:00 Tuesday morning. After numerous attempts all day long by girls, Kershner was reached at home at 8:00 and came through with a ·~--. .a •. tl. replies ~--. ... . .. ;,·· S~turday•s . intm;$;Q.u~d gftme. p&as from Rroce. (W~s,£;L) Tickets eosto~~y_two dollars,_aod. Pullial)l and o~e ·qq, AiL }\~ads·;,tw To the Editor~ ,. can · .be obtatned fr9m Oo_n grounl;!sto.,.end,Pon~ pl~)l. ··{)ave's In recent weeks there have been J?enms. Glee Club Pr_es1de~t. T~ sp~q <Uld ,gut& 9n., the field W.~te . several inquiries about forming a OJe.e Club needs tli1s tnpn~y ··tf · on)y surpassed by Mr: . Fellft~S jt~QJor varsity hockey squad th.:k ,.t;b¢1rf·rtfip:Ao· Vene~tlaia !is to dazz.ling·: fqot!Werk att<kheadsifp :winter. The College community become a reality. two d<illars ylill play. , . . . '; should know that last spring, not. set anyone back ---:- the Glee A fwe yard loose ruc{l·· scqre after careful conside:ration an<! Cl~b wo~ks extrem~ly hard to wa&a<XlompJisbed .through a teatn wide consultation, the Athl~ic brmg thetr productions to ,the effort hea<J~ by Glenn M~y-ers Department de.cided against Cam~us, and it seems II) me that and pu.shed over by Dave (the starting a second intercollegiate the time has !low come for the Chest} DiMarco and Mike hockey team in 1976-77. Though campus to reciprocate. Wasser, the final decision was made la-st Sincereiy, ~ Harvey Friedman of Sigma Phi May, prior to rny appointment as Charlie Flanagan fame scored on extra point kicks Director of Athletics, I know that three timel:i for 6 points. The game the principal reasons .for that showed that Uttion's R·hg!;ty Club decision were, justly, the College's rppy infl.ated has what it takes to be a winning commitment to broad student club. · .. This weekend, we'll have participation in all Achilles Rink To the Editors: our final chance of th¢ season to programs, and, secondly-. the Last week in Coueotdiens:is un show up .f'iere. We'll be at budget .implications of fiel.;ling a unfair rugby artit:le appeared Albany's. Lincoln Park for tile . second team. Accwdingly, the entitled \Rugby Deflated.\ rhis annual Sevens Tournament. Athletic Department has never past week, a Union F:ugby .sq_uad There will be quite a few area establi~;hed sc;hedules or budgets did battle with a team made up of dubs there to witness an intlateQ for a junior varsity team. Albany Med. and Poughkeepsie Union Rugby Ctub. Tharrk you, Sincerely, players. The score was 38-4~ ML Puck ... Thomas R, Kershner Union won. P.S. Spectal thanks to Peter . Whoever Piere Puck is, sh.ould D la 1 1unt of D\\lta Ph1' Director of Athletics e l · ... • thanks~ ned 'to The Editors: be proud of the effect he had on our squad (especially since he played two weeks ago and neglected to show up this past weekend). We won that game Sincerely, The Rugby Tea1n nat I'd like to take this opportunity both for ourselves and to prove to thank Mr. Harkness, the him wrong. He said we play To tbe Editors: Director of the Hockey program Rugby only to play and not to Like the proponents of the a:t Union, for donating over 1200 win, We proved to him. and to Non·Academic Transcript, I'd tickets to Hockey games to the ourselves that we can win and win like to see mote student pattici~ Ulee Club. The tickets were big. Piere, you spurred us to a pation in extra .. curricuia·r d~nated S{) the Glee Cl~b could . romping of our opponents. Thank activities, off campus as well as ra1se money to help flnapce a you, on campus. Unlike them,. . I pruposed June. 1977 tnp . to THE GAME: Chip Fenn again oppose the NAT. Implicit in the Vene~uala,. .However, ~t the tnne displayed his talents by streaking NAT proposal Js a .failure to of thls wntmg, the Umon College through his opponents' ba<!kfield' understand what a <tonrrnunity is campus has yet to purchase very to score 5 i!nes. Dave Walsh and how a community derives its many of the tick¢ts for this made two tries, one on a flip off meaning from ! ( s s t t f r ( a t 3 I c t g a

· Page9 ......... Students·· ir faculty, . - ,., Who's Apathetic Much ha& been made ofapathy on this ·campus. Upperclassmen .complain about it, Freshmen heari(lg ab9ut the ,Jack. of contribution on other campuses assume it, and Faculty compla\in aboUt the laclt of intellectualism found. in any extra...curricular activity that exists. by MATT BRIEF Sisters and several others. New \Clubs are still being formed; a Debate Club is .presently iti the works. Let me strike a contrary note here - the Union student body .by relative standards is prob~b~y one of the most involved student Numbers don't lie, more than bodie.s you'll find anywhere. Since 1,000 students voted in las~ May's my Freshman year; apathy has ~tudent . government elect10ns, a und'oubtedly abated; Granted, JUmp of over 200 from the year more students are always needed - befon;. Y ou'U be hard pressed to to get · involved and corlti:ibute, find another campus where close but if any single segment should !o 60 percent o~ the stud~~ts vote · be criticized for their lack of m campus elections. Addt~I~:mall~, contribution te campus life, it is more students ran for postttons m undoubtedly the faculty. s\udent government last year than ever before. Ret~ are some interesting. facts and figures· for those who say Two years ago, committee Uni~n's student body is apathetic. applications numbered bately · In JUSt three . ye~rs, . C!'IJ?~~~t b~~ over one hundred. Last year the ~~.f5~~~rr!lli\,,~mmJ~l},td 1 ~'1i.t.;~,%~ff; ~. ,, CI:timmittee on Committ.~-~~, , li_as gone. fM an~ ~ ~;v~,r!'. 11 ,r~~ . 118 . received over four hunlfretl, programmtrtg wtth mcreasmg applications. Virtually every numbers of student wor~ers, a major proposal on the Ali~College sec?nd newspaper, the Camp~s . SeJ1ate last year W!IS put forth by Vm~e was started _and .hasnt students. Applications for detracted from Concordy, mJact . Orientation Advisers reached new <;oncordy has . more . s~udents highs and student projectslike the stg~ed up tha9 1t bas af1tcles to Intellectual Orgy, the ··Arts assagn. The Film Co:ffirntttee was Symposium and the Positive formed and s~arted t~e succes~ful Action Group were and have been Tuesdar . mght film sen~s. established to enhance Union's Speakers Forum beca~e a reahty intellectual .atmosphere. If last year and personabt1es such as anything, students deserve a pat Russell Baker and Moshe Dayan on the · back and positive have been on campus. Sm~ller encouragemeht to continue clubs such as W~UC ha~e thnv~d improvi:ng Union life. as well as · Btg 6rothers{Btg , Faculty, however, are a different story. In the Senate, they haven't supported one major proposal in· over a year, they rule a Ia Gerry Ford, negative government f¢r Union College. Academics have lagged more than any other area in this college. A few Faculty are constant contributers and always initiating projects for the. campus, however they are anomalies. \ · Professor Finkelstein spoke of Faculty as important role models at the last Senate meeting. What he said ·was correct, if you think students turn out poorly for lectures, che<Jk out Faculty attendance. Aside · fmm the Intellectual Cabaret, there is no constant s.ource of FacultY. contribution, intellectual or otherwise. Some Faculty~initiated projects like the Phi Beta Kappa Symposium have been great contributions. for the <;:ampus but again· the same Faculty names keep popping up. Of course, some Faculty may argue that their only role is in the classroom, and they may be excellent teachers for Universities the size of Cornell or Michigan. At a small campus like Union, extra-curricular contribution is essential, whether it's political or social. Students ought not to be getting \down on other students, less time complaining, more time contributing is needed. As for the Faculty, in terms of ·contributing outsjde the classroom, they ought to loo\( ~tt studeQts as role.IJlodels. j •. \ ... ' ~ ' ln the small group meetings I have been holding with freshmen I have been pleasantly surprised at how many are aware of the College's relationship to Union University. New students seem both more interested and more informed on this subject than some older students. Perhaps it is because the new students are closer to reading catalogues and the freshman or-ientation experience but I should like to believe it is because the University is currently doing more that will affect this college. The University was founded in 1873 in an effort to develop a full university that could compete effectively with the new university at lthl\ca and the old university at Columbi~. Where -graduate and professional programs were being added to historic Columbia College. It was intended initially that Union, through an alliance with existing schools of medicine and law in Albany aild the Dudley Observatory (the College of Pharmacy came later), would become the focus of central authority in the University and develop graduate studies and further professional programs. For a brief period in the 1890's, it appeared that Union College would move to Albany to a location adjoining the .professional schools in order to facilitate the growth of the University. But this effort failed, due largely to the spirited opposition of Schenectady alumni, and the hopes for ra,pid growth of the University began to fade. This University gradually became what it is today: A loose federation of autonomous colleges with no central appointive or financial powers and lacking a graduate school of arts and sciences. Does the University then make a diffe~:ence? The meeting this week poimed. to important new ties among the colleges that m~ke up the University. The new 6~year program iti Medical education sponsored by Union College and Albany Medical College received fav6table comment and I observed that the full significance 9f the progt~m in bringing the attention of promising students to Union College including many who will not enter the program, has not yet been realized.· . The 6~year program in Law and Public Policy leading. to baccalaureate and law degress from Union College and the Albany College of Law is also attracting increased interest from sJudents and the wider public. New brochures describing these programs are now available. Another pilot program involving Union with the colleges of law, medicine and pharmacy will be launched in Forensic Medicine this year. -This may ultimately involve the teaching of courses to current students and continuing education for lawyers and health professionals, as well as research and dissemination of information. Still other joint programs with Pharmacy (a master's degree in health administration) and Law (a combined degree in law and business management) are currently under consideration. In addition, a number of our faculty teach or serve in one·of the University's other colleges; cooperation among the colleges in career counselling, placement, and continuing education is growing; and some interesting programs sponsored, in part, by the University (such as last year's symposium in Ethics and Medicine) have been held. As Chancellor, I have also been deeply involved this past year in ·the affairs of Dudley Observatory. The withdrawal by the State University of its support for graduate programs in astronomy, in addition to the contraction of federal funding for research, has precipitated a long and difficult crisis that is still not resolved. So there is life in the University and it helps set us apart from those small private colleges that lack a university connection. As we look to the future and the known troubles ahead, we can continue to chart a course that builds on our strengths and t,he thi~gs that rnak.~'. us \ j c' ' t ! • \ ; • Editors-in-chief .................................................................. bowie lax mike rotondi News editi>r ....................................................................... matt brief Contributing editor........................................................ glenn wolfson Feaiures editor .......................................................... cindy sheppard \' Culture editor ................................. .., ....... marshall wisoff, joe millet Sports editors ................................... ; ....................... ch~rlie flanagan allyne price Copy' editor.................... . ............................................ susan finkelstein Business managers ......................................................... sheryl farber harris halpert Classifieds editor ............................... martha rubenstcin .todd miller Subscriptions editor ..................................................... harris halpert layout editor, ........ ,,; ............. joe cappucio, nancy murphy ~Photography editor ..................................... ; ................ rich guardian Photo STafL ........................ .'julie seeger, mike kolesa cary feverm~n steve grill, al tannenbaum, mitch mindlin jon flescher, fred abbott, joe millctt, tony romanazzi Art e~itor .............................................. ; ........................ .lester weiss Poetry editor ................................. ;...... delanne staglffilan Staff this issue ......................................... , ... joe ades lydia fogelman brad kessle;:marjorie k~hn, fran Iorber: marla lux. karen spar. audrey stein, su,: cbfrom. barbara stern, eileen thomas nancy feldman; amy perlin, ann markowitz, lisa baron Calendar · .... .. ... .. .. ... ... . . ... .. . . .. ; ............................ ; ....... rich berniker CONCORDIENSIS is published every Wednesday by the student body of Union Colle&e, Old Gym IJall, Schenectady, New York.; to which Postal · Forms 3579 are directed. Publications Office: The Jewl$h World Publications, 416 Smith ~t., Schenectady, N.Y. l:z305 (370-5483). Entered in the Schenectady Post Office as Second Class Matter. Subscription Rate 35 cents per .:opy, $10. a year deUvered anywhere in the United States.

CONCORDIENSJS,. Wed11esday, Nov. 10, 1976 Page9 Students or F acuity, Who's Apathetic Much has been made of apathy on this campus. Upperclassmen complain about it, Freshmen hearing about the lack of contribution on other campuses assume it, and Faculty complain about the lack of intellectualism found in any extra.,curricular activity that exists. Let me strike a contrary note here - the Union student body by relative standards is probably one of the most involved student bodies you'll find anywhere. Since my Freshman year, apathy has undoubtedly abated. Granted, more students are always needed to get involved and contribute, but if any single segment should be criticized for their lack of contribution to campus life, it is undoubtedly the faculty. Here are some interesting facts and figures for those who say Union's student body is apathetic. In just three years, Cabaret has become an in;.titution, .WRUC has gone FM and diversified its programming with increasing numbers of student workers, a second newspaper, the Campus Voice was started and hasn't detracted from Concordy, in fact Concordy has more students signed up than it has articles to assign. The Fiim Committee was formed and started the successful Tuesday night film series. Speaker's Forum became a reality last year and personalities such as Russell Baker and Moshe Dayan have been on campus. Smaller clubs such as W2UC have thrived as well as Big Brothers/ Big by MATT BRIEF Sisters and several others. New clubs are still being formed; a Debate Club is presently ia the works. Numbers don't lie, more than I ,000 students voted in last May's student government elections, a jump of over 200 from the year - before. You'll be hard pressed to find another campus where close to 60 percent of the students vote · in campus elections. Additionally, more students ran for positions in student government last year than ever before. Two years ago, committee applications numbered barely over one hundred. Last year the Committee on Committees received over four hundred applications. Virtually every major proposal on the All-College Senate last year was put forth by students. Applications for Orientation Advisers reached new highs and student projects like the Intellectual Orgy, the Arts Symposium and the Positive Action Group were and have been established to enhance Union's intellectual atmosphere. If anything, students deserve a pat on the back and positive encouragement to continue improving Union life. participation. lrtvolv~me~~ ~n.npt .cprnpetition in the da~rooms and be· legislated - participaiion·has libraries, and has already drained no meaning when it is c@erced. so much meanin.g from the The community which attempts .... academic part of student. life. Let to extort involveftie,llt, fpy us ll()t poj&Qn extra-,curricular whatever means~ however subt-1~ . , . .campus life; as we have already to Ot disguised) . diVeStS itself of the .. Such a . great extent poisoned right tQ ~-e ~risidei¢4. a gert'\iiti;e academic life. communit$'•' tnde¢d, ·tll¢. ~tte~pt · · itself is a sign that what. was once a living community is. now inert, dead. The Union College cl:Hnmunity Sincerely, Ayala Rahi'mi \77 j v heekey is far from dead. Nevertheless it To the Editors: remains the resp<>nsibitity of every stud'enHo understand his} her role as a ~am{!us dtiten artd. to provide the interest and partid..: pation · the citizen owes the community, so that Union will remain a lively campus and devdop even further. However, even while students are encouraged to participate actively in campus life, we must recognize that this encouragement must be genuine, :not artificial and bureaucratic, as the NAT would be. Students should {and do to a great extent) participate actively on campus because of the natural satisfaction derived ftom making a personal contribution to a group endeavor. Ottce Graduate School fever sets in, and this natural satisfaction is over- shadowed and · replaced by a deliriously obsessive desire to accumulate prestigious titles and lists of offices held, to be presented almost as trophies of battle before the all powet·fui admissions .officers, then campus life will have lost its meaning; in mu<:h the same way, in tact, our grading system, however nece~sary, has encouraged d¢adly Having close ties with certain members of the now INTERCOLLEGIATE CLUB JCE HOCKEY TEAM, I have become aware that SOME of the statements brought out in my article concerning J.V. HOCKEY wete partially incorrect. Because it is not in tne team's or my in~rests nor within my general habits to make unfactual statements, I wish to make a personal apolo! y to Prof. Kershner, the Athletic Director, for implying that he alone issued the decision to cancel plans for a _.junior varisty hockey program. Rather, I have now learned, the decision was due to a joint effort on the part of the Trustees, Pres. SQnner, and Prof. Kershner. Since the decision to cancel the J. V. team, the players have formed an inter·collegiate club team, which is a separate entity from the athletic department. Still,. however, Prof. Kershner has refused the team any use of the rink. Though only two students, on the average, attend the physical education tw<rand·a ;half~hour skating sessions-, and tho.qgh the intramural hoc!<t~y · Faculty, however, are a different story. In ~he Seaate, they haven't supported one major proposal in over a year, they rwle a Ia Gerry Ford, negative government for Union College. Academics have lagged more than any other area in this college. A few Faculty are constant contributers and always initiating projects for the campws, however they are anomalies. Professor Finkelstein spoke of Faculty as important role models at the last Senate meeting. What he said was correct, if you think students turn out poorly for lectmes, check out Faculty attendance. Aside from the Intellectual Cabaret, there is no constant source of Faculty contribution, intellectual or otherwise. Some Faculty-initiated projects like the Phi Beta Kappa Symposium have been gteat contributions for the campus but again the same Faculty names keep popping up. Of course, some Faculty may argue that their only role is in the classroom, and they may be excellent teachers for Universities the size of Cornell or Michigan. At a small campus like Union, extra-curricular contribution is essential, whether it's political or social. Students ought not to be getting down on other students, less time complaining, more time contributing is needed. As for the Faculty, in terms of ·contributing outside the classroom, they ought to look at students as role models. Pt98tatn uses only two of the four hours allotted to tbern four nights weekly, Kershner ha-s continually refuJled to recogn:ize the club hockey play~rs as st~,tcfeqts and allow them the one hour· of ice ·time per day that they ·need and deserve as members of the {)Ollege community. The dub hockey team, now seeking through the Student Forum, will, if approved, be legally entitled to the full recognition and priority deservifig any legitimate organization of this college. The Hockey Club, as an official organization, would finally be able to receive the ice titne they deserve. I therefore, strongly utge and would applaud the formal approval of the Club's consitution. as an effort to sidestep Professor Kershner's usurped authority. Once approved as a fully funded student organization, it is my hope that the athletic department and other administrators will treat the players as students, and not as though they were some foreign substaficG. Sincerely, David Matthew responses to an •natter~ oi inquiry To The Editors: It is true that we don't know if we are able to reduce the posibility of our not being able to find viable alternatives in some kind of otga,nized manner. However, this should not deter us from investigating new ave.nues of Continued Otl i•atge \i4 In the small group meetings I have been holding with freshmen I have been pleasantly surprised at how many are aware of the College's relationship to Union University. New students seem both more interested and more informed on this subject than some older students. Perhaps it is because the new students are closer to reading catalogues and the freshman orientation experience but I should like to believe it is because the University is currently doing more that will affect this college. The University was founded in 1873 in an effort to develop a full university that could compete effectively with the new university at Ithaca and the old university at Columbia, where graduate and professional programs were being added to historic Columbia College. lt was intended initially that Union, through an alliance with existing schools of medicine and law in Albany and the Dudley Observatory (the College of Pharmacy came later), would become the focus of centra.( authority in the University and develop graduate studies and further professional programs. For a brief period in the 1890's, it appeared that Union College would move to Albany to a location adjoining the professional schools in order to facilitate the growth of the University. But this effort failed, due largely to the spirited opposition of Schenectady alumni. and the hopes for rapid growth of the University began to fade. This University gradually became what it is today: A loose federation of autonomous colleges with no central appointive or financial powers and lacking a graduate school of arts and sciences. Does the University then make a difference'! The meeting this week pointed to important new ties among the colleges that make up the University. The new 6-year program in Medical education sponsored by Union College and Albany Medical College received favorable comment and I observed that the full significance of the program in bringing the attention of promising students to Union College including many who will not enter the program, has not yet been realized. The 6-year program in Law and Public Policy leading to baccalaureate and law degress from Union College and the Albany College of Law is also attracting increased interest from students and the wider public. New brochures describing these programs are now available. Another pilot program involving Union with the colleges of law, medicine and pharmacy will be launched in Forensic Medicine this year. This may ultimately involve the teaching of courses to current students and continuing education for lawyers and health professionals, as well as research and dissemination of information. Still other joint programs with Pharmacy (a master's degree in health administration) and Law (a combined degree in law and business management) are currentl:or under consideration. In addition, a number of our faculty teach or serve in one·of the University's other colleges; cooperation among the colleges in career counselling, placement, and continuing education is growing; and some interesting programs sponsored, in part, by the University (such as last year's symposium in Ethics and Medicine) have been held. As Chancellor, I have also been deeply involved this past year in the affairs of Dudley Observatory. The withdrawal by the State University of its support for graduate programs in astronomy, in addition to the contraction of federal funding for research. has precipitated a long and difficult crisis that is still not resolved. So there is life in the University and it helps set us apart irom those small private colleges that lack a university connection. As we look to the future and the known troubles ahead, we can continue to chart a course that builds on our strengths and the things that make us unique. union col.. 11 • con-co·rOtensts Editors-in-chief .................................................................. howie lax mike rotond1 News editor .................................................................... matt bnef Contributing editor.... ..... ............................... ............ glenn wolf son Features editor . . . . .. ...... ...... ........ ... .. ........... cindy sheppard Culture editor. . . .. .................. ·~·· ...... marshall wisoff, joe millet Sports editors.. ....................................... . . .charlie flanagan allyne price ... su;an finkelstein Copy editor. Business manager> .......................................... sheryl farber harris halpert Classif1eds editor... .. . . ....... martha rubenstein .todd miller Subscriptions editor ................................................ hams hal pert Layout editor, .............. Joe cappucio, nancy murphy Photography ed1tor .............................................. rich guardian Photo S1aff. ................... Julie seeger, mike kolesa cary feverrnan steve gnn, a! tannenbaurn, mitch mindhn Jon flescher, fred abbott, joe milieu. tony rom~nau1 Art editor.... .. ....................................... lester we1ss Poetry editor.. ........ ...... ...................... delanne stageman Staff this issue . ..... . .. . . .. . ............... Joe a des, lydm fogelman, Calendar. brad kessler, marJone kohn, Iran Iorber, marla lux, karen spar, audrey stem, sue ebfrom, barbara >tern. e1lcen thoma; nancy feldman, amy perlin. ann markown.z. !i;a baron . nch bernik.cr CONt'ORDJio:NSIS is published every Wednrsday by thl' student body of Union College, Old Gym l.lall, Schenectady, New York.; to which Postal Forms 3579 are directed. Publications Office: The Jewish World Publications, 416 Smith ~t., Schenectady, N.\'. 12305 (370-5483). Entered in thr Schenectady Post Office as Second C'lass Malter. Subscription Rate 35 cents per copy, 510. 11 year dc:livered anywherr in t~ United States.

Page 10 Glee Club The Union College Men's'Giee Club will present a joint concert with the Simmons College C h or a I e on Saturday. November 20. The concert will begin at g p.m. 111 Union's Memorial Chapel. The Union College club will do three solo numbers, including one chorus from Randall Thompson's \The Testament of Freedom\ and a chorus from the oper.a, \Sadko.\ Among the four pieces that the Simmons Chorale will do are Bartok's \Four Slavic Folk Songs\ and William Dawson's \Ain't That Good News.\ The choruses will combine for Dvorak's \Te Deum,\ under\ the direction of Hugh Allen Wilson, professor of music at Union and director of the Men's Glee Club. Within the last five years, the Union College Men's Glee Club has come to be among the most highly respected men's choruses in the country. The Simmons Chorale has become equally distinguished under the direction of Robert Gronq uist, associate professor and director of musical activities at Simmons, located in Boston. Both groups arc planning international tours. ·the- Union club will tour V cnezuela next summer, while the ·Simmons group will visit G~rmany in May. Admission to the Nov. 20 concert is $2 to the general public. FERRO'S PHARMACY closest to campus \STUU)!NT DISOOUN\r .575Naetll. 3'77-l!ltt ...., Phone. 15181 37i 1 605\0 3 7(} 6051' -' FOR FRESHMEN, SOPHOMORES & JUNIORS Seniors tend to be more intere·sted in our services than d.o freshmen, sophomores a·nd juniors. We, at the Placement Office, want to take this opportunity to focus in on some of the ways that we can be of help to underdass students, Individual Appointments Maintenance ~ Union's contribution to ecology, If, as an underclass student, you find yourself wondering about yourself in relation to the world of work, and you would like to talk with someone about it, please fec-I free to drop by the Placement Office and make an appointment to see Susanna Miller or John Sollazzo. You'll find that we'll be happy to sit and talk with you. Hillel Notes Group Workshops We have found that many underclass students express similar concerns about, themselves, work, and how the two fit together. To address these The Jewish Student Organization Hillel wHl sponsor a Bagels and Lox Brunch, Sunday morning, Nov. 14, from 10:30-12:30 at the Kosher Kitchen in Davidson House. Professory Yuters (SUNY A) will speak on Jewish Medical Ethics (specifically abortion and death). Admission will be 75~ for members and $1.50 for non-members.Ail are welcome to attend. This Thursday Night The Dutch Hollow Pub Is Featuring An ITALIAN BUFFET for 52.99· The Jewish Student Organization Hillel, the History department and the Comp. Ed. board will jointly present Jacob Nuesner, Professor ~ of Religious Studies at Brown University, Thursday, Novj 11, at 4:30p.m. in SS 016, Neusner will be discussing Three Weeks in South Africa: Jewish Disco,very and Self-Discovtlries. All are welcome to attend. concerns, we have established group sessions such · as the Explore Workgroup to bring small groups of students together to discuss self and career related issues. U nderclass students are encouraged to .sign up for these workshops at the Placement Office.\\ Tread Mill Sports Shoes Accessories Featuring TIGER NIKE AND PRO-KEDS FOOTWEAR 110 Quail S'treet Albany, New York I Block North Of Central Avenue Career Information A major section of our placement office library is de- voted to career information. We have information on hundreds of careers including a-dvertising, journalism, purch.asing, civil service options, and engineering to name a few. It's a good place to carne and browse and get a feel for the variety of work options that exist. If you are interested it) a particular field that we do not have literature on, we will undoubtedly be able to help you get information via the many career information bibliographies .that we h!lve. People Resources H~tnd·book. This resource descnbes the nature of work, places of employment, qualifications, advancement, employment outlook, earnings, working conditions, and sources of additional information for mort)' than 800 occupations. 2. The Conservation .IJirectory. This is a directory of ia wide variety of governmental, private, iil'ld other conservation organizations, classified by state and purpose. 3. The Four County Human Services Directory. 1'his resource inclucles descriptions of area agencies dealing with the direct delivery of human services. Brief service synopses are included. 4. The Fedeul ,Career Directory. This includes descriptions of jobs with the Federal Government. It aiso includes descriptions of hiri-ng agencies. 5. The Official Museum Directory .. A comprehensive guide to museums throughout the United States. It . includes info·rmation on personne·l, collections, facilities, activities, public~tlons, and more. 6. The Executive'!! Corporate Handbook. A comprehensive guide to the performance of over 1700 major corporations. Includes addresses, sales, profits, earning~ per share, sales by product .group, five year trends and more. 7. The Handbook of Private Schools. U.S. private schools are described and listed by geographic region. , 8. Career Guide. to Professional Associations. This is a directory of Qrganizations by occupational field. A great resource to locate professional groups that are dealing with a variety of occupations. Includes addresses to write to for more information. Once again, this is only a partial listing. \'We strongly encourage all ·Underclass students to come over an~ browse. Hope to see. you. Eat all you want from 5-8 pm .·.:MAD1SON'S TYPING SERVICE ·we have recent-ly received a People Resource Book compiled by the Hudson MohawJc Placemen.t Staff · . Minority Students amJ Women lnter.ested in Law • .Reports • Manuscripts · • Thesis • Resumes Prompt Service Reasonable Rates Don,t forget to look for special drinks which will be served daily during the hours between 8 and 11 pm · 433 Liberty St. 372-5841 Schenectady One flood JVtan becoming a Christian Brother THIS YEAR CAN HELP MANY PEOPLE IN FUTURE YEARS !THE CHRISTIAN BROTHERS ARE A GROUP OF CATHOLIC RELIGIOUS BROTHERS WHO SPECIALIZE. IN DIFFERENT FORMS OF EDUCATION l For More Details, Write: BROTHER STEPHEN FSC I DE LA SALLE ROAD ALBANY, N.Y. 12208 ' Consortium of Colleges and Universities. The book lists close to 200 people \in a variety of occupations . in the Capital District area - who have agreed to be available to talk with students who are interested in their work. Talking with some of these people \can give you a hit of a feel for what it is like to work in a particular field. Some Directories The Placement Office has several directories that will enable students to find out a variety of information about work. A partial listing of our resources includes: I. The Occupational Outloo.k Budw·eiser Nite THURS. stoo Pitcher 25¢ ... 16 oz. Draft The Black American Law Students' Association and the Women's Law Caucus of the Syracuse University College of Law will sponsor a recruitment conference for women- and minorities on November 13, 1976. AU minority and women students ' who desire to explore the possibility of law school are invited to attend. More information at the Placement Office. A repres\entative from Clarkson's MBA Graduate Program will be here on lliursday, November 11. All interested students should sign up at the Placement Office. Molson Nite SATURD~Y $JSO - Pitcher 40¢ - 16 oz. Draft Beer of The Week- Vienna Splits 35¢ - 7 oz. draft FREE PEANUTS NIGHTLY. THE RATHSKELLA.R. - • .•~:! ~jt ~, ~ : . f.;t, .,:o.~g~~~ .... -~:-,,.,~ . ...-,.<:.~ .... -~~\- r:.;._·~1c\~··\\·r-.:_ ,,.,-n-_orr::;:;:.l::': .. -Q£~\-Wi~.f-~;;£i~~.J\~~~ .. JLi.,-_~~'<_..~~~~W-:),... -·-5··~-\\:..l~'..~'.li'.;ll.l'l.~>'!t.l \1'-\U.\\'-~\~-.-~.- .. ,;ti(,~~.-..---. ' . . Wil Cl _Conced telationsh religion visiting c;levout Cl deliver a Challenge Monday, 016_. As a 1 has auth< book of 1' countless for u.nive Baltimim and Play Jan The L sponsor study s~ January The Lisl in intem have. hel understa nations, \The both stw intf'resteJ approad educatio: on the unusua intercult1 exper:ier I nternati De.Witt : Highli include: capital, r Se: The d1 and Philo sponsor a by Pw Benfield. author c social l gyiit:COlO,!! age (tJ,on Life, Bas talk he ~ material~. new booi Profes~ T ·unioJ 1:25. Sund Wass 7:30~

'. CONCORDIENSIS, Wednesday, Nov. 10, 1976 Wills to Speak: Challenge of the ·Gospel _ Conc~;ding the fact that fhe r.elationship between politics. and. religion is adversary at best, visiting political .analyst anrl devout Christian; Gal;fy Wills will deliver a lecture entitled \The Challenge of the Gospel\ on Monday, Nov. 15, at 8 p.m. in SS 016_. . As a political s1 lenti.St, Wills has authot:ed Nb:t .. Agonistes; a book of Nix.·on's rise to power and countless articles and editorials for U:niversa'l Press Syndicate, the Baltimore Sun; Esquire, Harpers, and 'Playboy. As a student and follower of the Gospel, Wills reads the Bible daily. He is also the author ·of 6~re Ruined Choirs, a book about the rigid, ritualistic, and institutionalized Catholic Church Mr. Wills· knew as a child and how it has constantly changed in the past 2 decades. Bods Pasternak in Doctor Zhivago; (Pan Theon Bo.oks, 1958) says, \The two basic ideas of modern man ate in the Gospe·ls - without them he is unthinkable -- ~he idea of free personality and the idea of life as a sacrifice:\ It is J S ' .. . .. t· d. an:ua,ry em1na:r 1n · n •a The Lisle Fellowship, Inc. will sponsor a three-week wor~ and study seminar in India from January 3-23, 1977. Since 1936,. The Lisle Fellowship'.s prQgrams in international human relations have. helped promote peace and understanding for peoples in 91 nations, \The seminar is designed for both studef!tS and others who are intf'rested in exploring alternative approaches in the fields of education and run\! development on the subcontinent. It is an unusual opportunity for intercultural and intergroup expeF'iences,'' said Lisle's International Co-Directors, Dr. De-Witt and Edna Baldwin. Highlights of the seminar include: Orientation in the capital, New Delhi, at the Gandhi Peace Foundation where. guest speakers will lead discussion groups on cross-cultural themes and ·issues relating to education and rural development. Field trip to live and work in a tural tribal area where a social action community has spent the. Jast 25 years working with peoples in 1,000 villages. . . Total cost (including roem, board, , fees for tours. land transportation-but excluding trave1 to and from New York City) is $:1100. , The India Seminar is open to the first 15 persons who apply. 'For an application and further information, please write, .India Seminar, cjo Lisle Fellowship, Inc., 511 Meadow· Hall Drive, Rockville, Md. 20851 , or cal'! 301- 424-4805. Sexual Surgery Lecture The departments of History bachelors degree from Trinity and Philosophy are pleased to co- CoUege, Cambridge, and his sponsor a talk on Sexual Surgery Ph.D. from UCLA. He has by Pm{essor G.J. Barker- taught at the State University of Benfield. Professor Benfield is the New York at Albany. · author of a widely acclaimed social history of American ' The talk, which opens the -····--,-1.._, .. , ,~,,rina· th<>- Vi ... tori<>n PhHosophy Humanities· gy JU;;\,;\JH..i5) U·l..&.• la'Jr.f) a. . .t:.av ..... _.~\ ... ~.;._. - age (Q.orrors of the Half Known Colloquium series· for this year, Life, Basic Books, 1975). In his will be on Friday, Nov. 12 at 3 talk he will present some of the p.m. in Rm. 117 of the materiaL he. js dev~loping_ for his Humanities · building. As is new book, Sexual Surgery.. traditional, beet an<J- Taco 'Chips- Professor Benfield received his will be served in the Humanities lounge after the talk. The PENNY PINCHER QUALITY CLOTHES-· LOW PRICES USED BUT NOT ABUSED CURRENT STYLES 1122 ALlAMONT AVE. (Entrance Bernice St.) tuesday ..... Saturday 10-5 Thursday'$ till 9 p.m. 356-2571 WRUC 90. 9 f m * s t e r e o SAT-NOV.13 ·union football at Harnilton. Game broadcast begin!i at 1:25. SUN.-NOV. 14 Sunday Special Interview Show with Mark Selt~er and Lee Wasserman. Gn~t to be anfiounced. Broadcast begin$ at 7:30~ ****The Nott Wit.ts are returning soon. Listen and look for ailnouncements**** • • to this laHer idea that Mr. Wills' thesis, 1 'The Challenge,\ is din~cted: that therce involves a definite sacrifice for those that .follow the Gospel. In his lecture on Monday, Wills will try to explain this challenging and divine sacrifice. Hence, the lecture promises to be interesting to those of all faiths. For a political scientist and ·student and follower of the Gospel (2 anta.gonistic interests), Mr. Wills will give his views on the Challenge of the GospeL The SIMS Club will be presenting a special slide show on Tuesday, Nov. 16 at 7:30p.m. in Hale House lounge. The show • will depict Maharishi. International U nivershy and its unique approach of educating its sttidents. The emphasis of MlU is · on developing the student's inner censciousness as well as his outer knowledge. Admission will be free . and all are invited. Chocolate brownies will be served. For additional information call 377- 3133. Another Presidential hopeful hits the Union Cullege campus. Volunteer Day : Alcur Liquor 'center Liquors -- Wines - Cordials 751~ EASTERN AYE. CORNER JACKSON Looking for a way to get involved,,-to gain some important pre-career experience, or to share your talents and concern with someone in need? Why not volunteer? Volunteer work can be a very rewarding activity and an excellent means through which to gain valuable experience. The Volunteer Program of Union College will be sponsoring a Volunteer Day on Wednesday, Nov. 17, in Strauss Lounge, from ll-4. Different organizations from the Schenectady community will be there representmg many different areas of volunteer work - law, politics, hospital and health related areas, one-to-one counseling, tutoring and others, just to mentioll a few. Come take a look and get an. idea of what you can do. You don't have to commit yourself. Take this- opportunity to add another dimension to your Union career. Be a volunteer. Free pretzels, warm cider and entertainment will be provided. LOWEST PRIC~S ALLOWED IN N.Y. STAT-E Call home. .lor verylittle bread ~can ask for some. A good time to ask for a few dollars is when it costs only a handful of cha..n.ge. You can call Morn, Dad, or rich Uncle Richie from llPM to 8AM anywhere in New York State for 32¢ or less for the first 'minute. Each additional minute costs only 21¢ or less. These terrific \Mighty Minute\ rates apply to intrastate station-to-station toll calls you dial yourself, without operator assistance (they do not apply to calls from coin phones). Rates on out-of-state calls are also a ba:rgam. So whenyou call home for cash, spend less. @New York Telephone

Page 12 CONCORDIENS/S, Wednesday, Nov. 10, 1976 An College Senate Meeting budget ·Continued from Page I proposal assured that students were not participating, could not be expected to makt adult decisions, and a faulty institutional mechanism was being created to fill the gap. Sophomore Senator Mark Seltzer said that there was a grave extracurricular crisis but was corrected by Matt Brief, ex- Senator and me:qrber of the · Committee on the N .A. T. who disagreed- and cited statistics which showed huge increase·s in applications (over 400) by students far committees last year as a case in point. \W~at we need to create is a healthy atmosphere ~o encourage and positively reinfo·rce students that participate,\ he said. Ju.nior Senator Jeff Sheit.eger agreed, \We.:re tryin~ to create an atmosphere ·of involvement.\ Professor Finkelstein agreed that great progress ..had been made in extracurricular affairs in the past :· ::_ few years and that would continue. The N .A. T. might be \damaging and counter productive.\ He spoke of the faculty as models; \students don't go to lectures, either do faculty. students don't go to hear Garry Wills; well, neither do faculty.\ .\transcendental Meditation - A Program to Create an Ideal Man\ Is it possible to develop into the status of ideal life? If so, how can it be done? On Thursday, Nov. ll, at 8 p.m. at Hale House Lounge, the SIMS club will be ' s p,o n s o ri n g a s p e c t a I introductory lecture on \The Transcendental Meditation technique as a program to create an ideal man,\ The guest speaker will be Mr. Robert Omansky, who has recently returned from a 6- month study at Maharishi European Research University investigating consciousness as . the field of all possibilities. Frosted brownies will be served. Admission is free. For information call 377-3133. Dean Smith spoke up and said that enthusiastic acceptance is needed from students and faculty, \we need pretty solid support for this procedure.\ NIGHTCLUB The Union College Social · Committee invites you to a nightclub on Saturday, Nov. 20th. Featured will be the noted comedian Bob Shaw, along with . The Great Estate, a jazz/ dance band from last yea(s. Winter Carnival Weekend BaiL There will be two shows, at 7:30 and 10:30 p.m. The admission price of $2.50 includes 3 free mixed drinks from a well stocked bar, and cheese. Reservations will be taken starting Thursday Nov; II th at Student Activities. Appropriate attire is requested; jackets are suggested. Right now, up until Oct. 31st, you can fly roundtrip from New York to Luxembourg! or only $360. •· That's $106less than the youth fare you'd pay on any other scheduled airline. (From Chicago you pay $401 and save $113.) AU you have to do is be under the age of 24. There are no booking restrictions, And no skimping on meals or service. Because we give you the same ser'Vice you'd get from other airlines, without the same high costs. So, if you're rrlanning on Europe, :fly with us on Icelandic. We'll.give you more than the lowest youth fares. We'll give you the best deal. See your travel agent or write to Icelandic Airlines Dept. # CN, 630 Fifth Avenue, NY, NY 10020. Or call toll free: (800) 555-1212. Fares subject to change. Savesl06 on jet fares to Europe and book anytime you want. Icelandic LOWEST JET FARES TO EUROPE OF ANY SCHEDULED AIRLINE. Rolling Records 527 UNION ST. SCHENECTADY Ph. 374-3430 Open Mon.-Sat. 9-9 Sunday 11-6 Check out our expanded selection of$1.99 and ' $2.99 specials P--~--~--~-~~--------~~-~, lone 6m98 List Album for onlyl I I I 3.88 I I WITH COUPON 1 I Limit One 3.88 special per person I L---~~~!~~~~~!~!!:~~----J Sophomore Senator Bill Jenkins spoke of the need for an \artificial stimulus to participate.\ In retort, Professor LeClerc said, \the ; structure here is the W.rong one. I want it (extra-curricular participation) to be appropriate and natural.\ Arguments flew back and forth until a motion was finally put forth to make participation in the non-academic transcript program purely voluntary. Suggestions were put forth to send the entire matter back to the Committee on the N. A .T. After several suggestions of what to do, student body · President Jim Trump stated that faculty would vate down the idea regardless of whatt;:ver happened, so the vote on the motion should be taken immediately. that passage of the proposal would have enta:iled. With the controversial N. A. T. proposal out of the way, the Senate quickly approved a change in the charge to the College Resources Committee and the addition of a representative from the Dean of Faculty's office· te the Admission's Office. The latter proposal drew mild opposition from Division I who th9ught that such an addition would .upset the absolute majority balance that faculty ha:ve on every committee. However, with assurance from Professor Finkelstein, Division 1 voted for- the' proposal. The meeting was then adjourned. After the meeting, several -senators stayed to · exchange The vote was not close. comments. President Jim Ttump ·Nineteen Senators, including all noted, \It (the N. A. T. proposal) faculty and the two Deans, voted was doorn!!d from the start.'' Bill ta defeat the proposal )Vhile five Jenkins., the sophomore Student students wanted to accept the Senator went into greater detail, compromise. Five students voted · against the motio\n because they \There were some legitimate felt it was watered down and gripes ~· but the proposal was · never given a fair shot. It (the violated the spirit of the original Senate) seemed, like an proposaL However, the vote 'nd\ t d th t ·.., th d h t adversative process more than a 1 tea e a lu e en , w a irritated faculty was not tl}e group of people working for the compulsory aspect of the good of the college.\ For several years, . the Senate has been proposal, for the motion made it wrestling with the problem of optional, but the extra. how to encourage community bureaucratic paperwork, participat~on, but last Thursday additional procedures, and extra the problem __!_ or the faculty - student-faculty advisor contact scored a pindown. · Continued from Page .J bud:get goes ~oward salaries and employee benefits and another 10 % toward financial aid. Even if, during the year, ther.e became reason to believe that a deficit might occur, it is hard to do anything about it since employee,!; are on contract and aid cannot be retracted. Revenues are also set in advance - Union cannot very Well raise tuition in the middle of a school year. Planning of the budget for the next few years is proQeeding on schedule. Some areas, such as Soda'! Security, are being looked into mor.e carefully n~w, as a result of the experience with last year's budget. Another change is that departments which desire to overspend their allowances for whatever reason (eg. inQreased costs of ,Jab equipment, etc;) must receive written permission from the Provost to d'o so. In the past, verbal pertnis!'lion was sufficient. Provost Enteman emphasizes that the $89,000 deficit is not a big problem .. It is a small ambunt relative to a budget of $14 million. The problem is in not meeting the planned budget. If a deficit; or surplus, occurred several· •years· in a row, then something 'about the structure . of the budget would probably need changing, As .it is, the college is trying to determine where all the discrepancies between planned and actual figures lie and why they occurred so that the planni:qg of future budgets can be improved. HAPPY HOUR! COME.; :BROW.SE:f . E.N3\0'f - EVERY FRIDAY AFTERNOON 12-6 p.m. AT lHt :SKELlAR MICHELOB SCHLITZ GENESEE CREAM ALE Pitchers $1.50 $1.25 $1.00 10 oz. Draft 20¢ 15¢ 10¢ FREE PEANUTS EVERY DAY Maurice B. Graobart & Sons IIC' • . . !:!erv-mg .... Union ~ ·t f--' [ For Three . ~ U- -t 1:-l+li-Ji;t4JH'I~\-\•c-M \Generations' $25.00 PER D 166 Jay st. Immediate Earnings Quality service & 'Fine Workmanship r Send $1.00 To: Envelopes Dept. 339A 310 Franklin Street Boston, Mass. 02110 CChere IS 11 differeneet!l PREPARE FOR: MCAT•DAT•LSAT•SAT GRE • GMAi • OCAT • CPAT • VAT Over 38 years of experience and success. Small classes. Voluminous home study materials. Courses that are constantly updated. Centers open days and weekends all year. Complete tape facilities for revieW of class lessons and for use of supplementary materials. Make;ups for missed lessons at our centers. ECFMG • FLEX NA T'L MEDICAL & DENTAL BOARDS Flexible Programs & Hours Our broad range of programs provides an umbrella of testing know- how that enable.s us !o offer the best preparailon available, further •mprovlng the individual course you've selected. ' Bklyn. 212-336·5300 Manhattan 212·683•5005 Lone Island 516-538-4555 New JerRy 201·846-2662 OutSide NY State Only ~~~, .. 800 .. 221 .. 9840 Corners ., ,..., US CitiH -~~· ! DUCATIONA\- CENTER lTD 16'l5 E 16 Sl Bklyn NV 11229 TEST PRI::PI\RATION SPECIALISTS SINCE 1938 Trying to start innovative engineering - company, not like big corporations, my interests are solar energy, electric and steam powered cars, etc. Do you hal;e the same interests, if so please write me at: 36 Water St., Seneca Falls, NY 13148; Att.: E. Dunn. FOR.LIQUOR AND WINE Try Jake lipstein' s 464 State Street 374-1888 WantecJ, I! everyday co Please call: 3 Smith. . Students possibility or the New Y should see .F Underwood, · Science. Stud' eligillle for 'F Action, a. Cc which incrud internship wit course wm winter and sp: The Pre- Anatom,y of the .famed sp1 A. Levine, a1 Albany Law Nov. 18 in W p;m. ELEC' OFFICES W 19· IN WEST AT 4 p.m. Vermont Law Nov. 18, 9-12: Seniors: · l organize g, Weekend. Pee with p:ublicitJ including a- cc float on Lak; Student Actiy Eli at 393\S:i3 during the wee Roommate possibly sprin! close to camr fully furnished please call Mil 2065 or visit m All of the dealt with Pre past, and are run it for tl weekend of contact: lrv K Jim Garofalo, Hollemam, 20 The Miller given on De afternoon at 3 Girdner in PsY• Psychology (to get a jump is approachir Psychology Friday. Nov. I will be held will include trimmings. 1'1 tickets can lx psychology Kramer,. 37( Schwartz, 3' Howell, 377.i.. available' thr secretary, Mt: tickets early ' Frid'!Y· lntematiom AsSociation • invite. you meeting on T in Strauss lou to get the. together, but 1 warmly welc• organize your If anyone paint the soc please come Carnegie, Sat from 1-5 p.m. call Sue Lein, : Okay, we'll Come to ro Building II (tomorrow 01 when this iss1 at 7:15p.m.,' and muuchie! the catch: y( band instru~ clarinets, s~ flutes, tromb1 - we'll even any reasonat fact), and be 'keep it short Yuval trio if supply all t chairs. Musi, out of the w all 30 of you in the same just once, yo glorious rest there!!!

Page 12 CONCORDIENSJS, Wednesday, Nov. 3, 1976 5pOrt5 Dutchmen Lose To Arch-Rival Ephs by LAN ('E BOBROW !he Union Dutchmen were dcni\ed victory Saturday afternoon not necessarily by their poor performance but\ by some help on the part of the officials who made se\ era! cuntrover~ial calls to help settle the outcome. However, Union coach Tom Cahill thought differently about whether these calls did indeed cost Untlln the ballgame. In hi~ words. \We had our chances. We let the game get away ourselves. I can and will make an issue of the quality tlf the officiatiNg.\ Cahill concluded, \'But I w<m't make an issue of losing.\ I he play which really broke the backs oft he Dutchmen came on a third and four for the Ephmen at their own 42. I his play took place late in the third period with Union in command at the time by a score of 19-7. Williams came up short oH a running play and it seemed like a punting situation was in order. But, a flag was thrown. WiHiams was detected in illegal motion. Surely, Union would decline the penalty. Union though was given no option on the play by umpire John Quinlan. The ball was moved back forcing a third and nine situation. Needless to say, the third down pass was complete for 29 yards and the Williams Ephmen were rolling denying Union a victory here for the first time since the 1940's. The other disputed call came in the second quarter when a Williams' fumble inside their own 25 was ruled dead. Game films show that the play was in progress at the time of the fumble which was recovered by Union. Naturally. the Ephs took it from there to drive 75 yards for their first touchdown. Another interesting complaint concerned Williams being late for the second-half kickoff and going unpenali1cd. lhese and other plays prompted ( \ahill's protest to the comrnJs:-Ioner of the ~ew England Intercollegiate 1-ootball Association who provided the officials for the contest. L'nion broke open a tight 7-7 football game in the third QUarter hy capitah1i ng on two Williams' turnovers. lorn Hood first intercepted an errant Williams toss returning tt to the Ephmen 27. Eight plays later. big back Doug Napadano roared in from the one l<l give llnion the lead for the first time 13-7. Moments later. linebacker Carmen Audino gobbled up an Eph fumble at the Williams 17. Andy Ierranova then set up U mon for a goal-line plunge hy passing 14 yard~ to the ttght end Frank Hoster. :\ apadano again got the calL di\ ing over from the onr to give Umon its seemmgly commanding 19-7 lead. From there. Williams dominated completely, aided by that call on illegal motion. WiHiams had a fiN and goal on the Union two. However, the defense hm'lg towgh just as it had last week at Hobart forcing a fourth and goal at the four. I om Redden. the Williams fullback proved the dtllerence as he made a ctrcus catch in the end tone to make it 19-14. On the next series of dowm. Williams was set up hy a pass interference penalty against Union at the Dutchmen two yard line. Amazingly, Union again stopped the Ephmen on three straight running plays. On fourth down though, quarterback Don Wallace went to Torn Redden who made another diving grab to put Williams ahead to stay 21-19. Union though had one last chance with vver three minutes left in the game. They drove from their own 29 to the Williams 39 yard line before an interception killed whatever chances they had of pulling off a mini-miracle. This Saturday will be Union's last home game of the season. The Dutchmen will play host to powerful Middlebury who is 5-l so far this season. If the play of the last two weeks is any indication there should be plenty of excitement in this bal!game. ,... Hope to see you at 1:30 on Alexander Field. Players of the Week Defensive laurels for this week must go to freshman linebacker Carmen Audino of Albany, N.Y. Carmen narrowly missed the award iH previous weeks and it was hard to slight him again. Carmen is an alert ballP'layer who has a knack of gobbling up loose footballs. He made a key fumble recovery in this game. In addition, may of the Williams\ ballcarriers will remember Carmen as he made several \pops\. The offensive player of this week is seRior tight end Frank Hoster from 'Columbus, · Ohio. Frank made key catches in the Williams' game and crucial nabs in other contests. Also, he has been instrumental in opening up many of the gaping holes which the DutchmeH running backs have been running through in recent weeks. Frank is an important part of Union's ball control offense as well as a brother at Sigma Phi. Tennis Player of the Week This week's Tennis Player of the Week is Leslie Kent, the Girls number one singles player. Leslie has compiled an almost perfect record so far this year, and her wins have been by large margins. Leslie is a Sophomore, so you probably will be reading more about her fantastic play in the future. Tennis woman of the year, Leslie Kent, practrcmg her backhand Dutchwomen End Season by PAMELA HASSEN UnioH's women's tennis team started the season off in a winning way, but due to some unfortunate circumstances was unable to show its full potential. The team was scheduled to play Vassar and Oneonta, but because of rain the matches were postponed and were unable to be scheduled for another time. There was a match at Albany on Monday, Oct. 18. No winner was declared, because half of the team didn't even get to play. Ann Kellogg, who plays second singles for Union did get to play her match and she won. Barb Berk, third singles lost her match, but she had to change courts in mid- !Rream. There was a main tournament and feed-in tournament played at SUNY, New Paltz, on Oct. 22-24. Unlike most feed-in consultation tournaments, this one was not composed only of losers playing losers. Playing second singles was Ann Kellogg, who had a close match in the first round of the main tournament, lost to Alfred 4-6, 5-7, and lost the feed-in consultation tournament to Oswego. Representing our team in doubles were first doubles Barb Berk and Rhonda Kaplan and second doubles Jill Schlesinger and fran Luber. Barb and Rhonda beat Wells in the 1st round of the main tournament 6- 3, 6-2. They lost however. in the 2nd round ol the feed-in tournament. I hey heat UU 7-5, 6-1, and they Cliso heat St. Johns 6-7. 7-5. I hey then lo~t tu St. Lawrence. 4-li. 4-6. Jill and I-ran won their first match of the main tournament 6- 1, 6-2 and lost their second, playing Wagner and Brooklyn Colleges respecttvcly. They lost their second round of the feed-in tournament to Stoney brook 5-7. 4-6 in a very close match. Carmen Audino and Frank \Helicopter\ Hoster, recipients of this week's prid stars Hooters Have Yet to Get on Track. by SCOTT HEILBRUNN !\he Union Soccer team, hosting two games this week and traveling for one, came out losing two of the three decisions. In what has proven a long and often frustratmg season, there have been few games in which the (jarnet Hooters could play while laughing. Such was the case when ~cw i'alv State visttcd Daley held la:-.t Saturday. Surpn,Jngly. a ltghtl~ regarded \,c'>\ Paltt tl.'arn >truck !Ir~t \\tth onl\ lt\r lllHHJ!e<.. !!one 111 the game on .a fluke g•1al pa't the DUhtretche<l hand' ol (ioalic I>oug Cra-v.lord. /\Iter takmg 17 ,IJots. detcn'ietnan \!ltke Smith dro\e home a corner kick with 16:11 remaining 111 the first half. Paul Marvin. on a pinpoint pa~s from F·rcsh man Jim Stoothoff put the (iarnet Hooter' ahead 2 to I wtth 2·50 left on the clock. With only 42 seconds left, Ira Sutton made the score 3 to I on a low driving sh<>t past the goalie. Pete Martini opened the second half scoring at 42:43 on an assist from Mike Smith. Martini, who has been playing injured the latter part of the season, has shown a dedication that has caused opponents coaches much comment. Jim Manning followed siX minutes later with a :-.core from a cros~ing pass from John Kt)\:tCs. John Kovacs scored on a perfect pas~ !rom (ieorgc Ciari\alti\ \\ith 4 mmutL·~ and 2 ~econc.ls rcmammg. l'ctt'l Hand~ ~hot a hard hendtng hall Into the net aftt.:l rct:t.:l\lll)! a pa~' fwm \lltkc !1ogan In the !mal mmutc. Paul Mantn ~cort:d tm ~ccor1d goal on an as~i:-.t from Pete Hand\. I he !ina! score read X to l and ;eflects one ol the lighter moment~ m thi~ difficult ~cason. * * * * I he trip to St. l.a~Nrence University for Wednesday·~ Soccer Game wa~ long and tiring. Combining with this fact was that the opposition's squad was by far the best faced all season. St. Lawrence and Union battled in an exciting first half to a scoreless deadlock. Garnet Goalie Mark Rukucki had some brilliant moments as he denied any ;,core under heavy pressure. I he second half was just as cxclttng, but Coach Magee's slJWid came out on the short end. l he Saints recorded their first o.eorc on a whistling 40 :.ard hla>t With three minute~ gone 111 the :-.rcond hall. llmt\ mmute:-. later. on a perfect cros,tng pa~s. the oppo-.itton made rL 2 to {) I he lmal ~cnrc came at !0:0() on a pertectly placed shot pa:-.scd the diving form of Mark Rukuckt. * * :ic * M iddlehury came to visit linton possessmg a good record against what is considered formidable opposition. I he visitors struck first as lreshman Goalie Doug Crawford tried to cut off a rolling ball. Unfortunatelv. the ball was deflected past him and shot into the goal. With 30 minutes remaining, Union did not give up. They received a golden opportunity when George Garivaltis was tripped in the penalty area. The Garnet Booters failed to convert as Pete Martini shot traveled high into the trees above the goal. I he score was l to 0 a~ the hall ended. The second half v.a:-. ten n11nutes old \.\hen Middlebun ~.cored a '>econd time. At tht' po;nt. a laulty mechani<..m on the clock ~toppl·d the time. and it '' only hecaU'ic ot the diligent cry ~11 the timekeeper that the referees !la!kd the game. With this hreak in the action the momentum of the game v.as 'v.ung in the favor of the Garnet Rooters. <ieorge Garivaltis took advantage of this by driving home a bouncing ball to make the score 2 to I. Union continued to press. but their attempts to tie the score were frustrated by the outstanding olay ·of the opposition's goalie. Thus. with the final horn, the score read 3 to 2 with Union once again being on the short side. INTRAMURAL NEWS Men's Pocket Pool Tournament - On Thursday. Oct. 29. (ieorge Silel!ky beat Mike Douglass to v.in the 1976 lnion College Intramural Pocket Pool Tournament. Foosbal! i\t 7:30 on November 4th there will be a Men's Doubles I-ooshall ·1 ournament. The tournament will be ht:ld on the top floor of Carnegie Hall. If interested, sign up in the Intramural Office in Alumni Gym or call 370-6119. All you Foosball addicts come on d<iwn and show your stuff. l ;.(' . );\ r\\-. '1' .: .;·. ,. . :' ' \) . j, ,j.~· -· J ·- J '.,• : ·~- . , .. · , [ • I ,,;i~·) : L 213, for roo rela attr trar A Chi, his Ent• yeat qui• Edu 0 wha item acac Crai deb~ stati tran: thn stud• Ho\\ tran~ the s lJ nio Ac acad, he a ~tud~ Crai! i\ \s < \,\ ith Di .nnen ol C rhe • that himsc <~cknc .tdvis< the H unani Scicn' Lib Pos 'Can Tra1 'c I Ul1 i I Edi1 Cl~u Ctd1 Sp:( ~

Wante4, tutor: for classical and everyday conversation in Ar!lbic. Please call: 346-2927. Phyllis Carver Smith. Students interested in the possibility of working as int,_erns in ihe New York State Legislature should see .Professors Tidmarch or Underwood, Depattment of Politii:ai Science. Students from all' majors are eligillle for The State Legislature in Action, a Comp. Ed·. prpject course which includes a 12\hour a week internship with a state legislator. This course will be offen~d during the winter an:!l spring terms, The Pre-Law Society presents: Anatoi!J.Y of 11 Manslaughter Case, the famed speech of Judge Howard A. Levine, an Adjunct Professor at AlQany ,Law School, on Thursc,lay, Nov. 18 in West Cqllege 'library at 8. p;m. ELECTlONS FOR ALL OFFICES WILL BE HELD NOV. 19 IN WEST COLLEGE LIBRARY AT 4 p.m. A· repre.sentative ..from Vermont Law will be in P.S. office Nov. 18, 9-12 a.m. Seniors: Get involved! Help organize Seni01: (Graduation)· Weekend. People are needed to help with publicity, and potential plans including a cocktail party and dance float on Lake George. Sign up in Student Activities office now or call Eli at 393\8:239. First meeting will lle during the week of N'ov. 1'5. Roommate wanted: for winter a1id possibly spring, 197(. On Avenue A, close to· camp~s. a nice apartment, fully furnished. If you are interested, please call Mike, June or Dan at 370- 2065 or visit us at 1569 Avenue A. All of those people who .have dealt with Prof. Walbek's INS in the past, and are interested in helping to run it for the PS 12 classes the weekend of Nov. 20-21, please contact: lrv Kaufman, 324 Davidson; Jil\1 Garofalo, 422 South or Chuck Hollemam, 202 Potter. · The Miller Anol()gie Test will be given on Dec. I on. Wednesday afternoon at 3:30. Sign up with Prof. Girdner in Psyc. building. Psychology majors: Your chance (to get a jump on the Turkey Season) is approaching. There will be a Psychology Thanksgiving Dinner Friday •. Nov. 19 at 5 p.m. The dinner will be held in Strauss lounge a11d will include Turkey with all the trimmings. The donation is $2 and tickets can be obtained through the psychology representatives: Mike Kramer, 370-6618; Ne;;tl Adam Schwartz, 370-3039 and Cindy Howell, 377·04,18. Tickets are also available through· the psychology secretary, Mts. Lumpkin. Get your tickets early .,.. ticket sales end this Frid!!Y· International Students As!iociation . (ISA) would like to invite. you to an organizational meeting, on Thursday, Nov. II, 9:30 ' in Strauss lounge. The ISA is trying to get the. International Students together, but also anyone interested is warmly welcome! Please help us organize your club. ~f anyone would like to help PRint the soon-to-be Crafts Center please . come to the basement of Otrneg1e, Saturday and/ or Sunday from 1-5 p.m. For more information call Sue Lein, 370-6438. Okay, we'll give it oite more try. Come to room 106 of the Arts Building this Thursday night (tomorrow or tonight, depending on when this issue comes out), Nov. 11, at 7:15 p.m., and get all the free beer and mw1chles you want. There is still the catch: you must come with a band instrument (we need lots· of clarinets, saxophones, trumpets, flutes, trombones, baritones and tuba - we'll even supply the tuba - or any reasonable b;;tnd instrument, in fact), and be prepared to play. We'll 'keep it short so you can get to the Yuval trio if you want to, and we'll supply all the music, stands and chairs. Musicii!.n~ at Union, .cqme out of the woodworki If we can get all 30 of you (that's right, at least 30) in the same place at the sa.me time just once, you'll be astounded at the glorious results. We k!I()W you're there I!! CO,NC(JRDIENSIS. Wednesday, Nov.10, 1976 .cla6sifiebs :ne. Classinect:s Page of the New CONCO:RU.tl',.NSJS is primarily a student se~vice; as such, aUi ·;material submitted will be p-..bUslaed.FREE of charge. to insure that the items submiUe4 are · prlirtecl, all copy MtJST be in by Monday at 8:00 PM. Items to 'be repeatetf must. ,have the . numbei of runs speelflied. The Union CoUp$e <;ONCORDIENSIS assumes no responsibility for . ty~graphieaJ·.eqors, but will print a correctlon. If you want a ride, or you have something to · ~n, or you simply w._ant ,to ~~~ so~etbing of your ()Wn printed up in. a major world publication, . PL~ASE, don't lteslblte! Tills is a .FREF; service, so take ~dvant4tge of it. If you wish to submitt · m•terial which confollll$ tc:t the format of .the Classlfieds v~Pe. simP.b sUp it under the 'Concoa;dy . :.9ft~~ door(3rd floor C~egle) or,ghe to· rocld Miller, 2:?.4 West. . . . . ' : .. . ... ' ~- . .. How would like :to live · in J)avidson? FEMALE .roomm&te ·Wanted. to live in great Davidson suite during winter term. lf you're looking for a change, or know dfl anyone who may 'be .interested, please call R()bin at 370~669lt · LOST; Down jacket (made by Jones) with a red plaid scarf and a blue & white knit cap. ';If found, please call Gary Philipson at 370- 6712. . I,.OST -:\ I lost a blue leather keycase somewhere between Wes.t and the Humanities building. lf you have it .please call me,. my roommate has, locked me out. Ann 370,6459. Male Wl\nt.~d: to share ne~t, clean apartl;IIent du,ring spring term and possibly '77\'18 sc!lool year. Location · is 321 Seward Place (facing side of Richmond). $58 (rent) 1 & . utilities; good landlord; first floor. Call 374- 2957. Dr. Irving Spar will give a seminaF on NuClear· Medicine and· AssoCiated Careers,. Monday, Nov. 15, at. 4:30 in BU 204. Dr. Spar is associate dean .of University of Rochester Medical School. ' Boots for sale: L.L. Bean insulated boots size I 0 in excellent condition. Offers. Peter Derick, Box 897. 6138. For sale: Camara ( 1970 ). V8. Good condition. Call 3 77-4904. · 5 Need or off~ring a ride? The WRUC Ride Board can help you! Just ieave your name, destination, dates leaving and returning at the WRUC .studios in Carnegie Hall. The , ride board is aired at 10:30 a,m,, 6:25 p.m. and. i0:30 p.m. Rides wanted. To Northern New Jersey or any point south on the Thruway. Leaving Friday, Nov. 12 and returning Sunday, Nov. 14. Call Mike at 374-3737 between. 6 & f(),p.m. K11ren needs a ride to Port Washington, Tuesday, Nov. 23. Please contact at 346-9369 or 370- 6143, 206 West. Will Share expenses. Ride needed to Boston. Thanksgiving vacation. Will share expenses gladly·. Please get in touch with Patti, 206 West. 370-6143. Ride wanted to Washington DC Leaving any time after noon on Thursday and returning before noon on Monday. Call Lauren. 372·2264. RiiJers Wanted to Fairfield County, Conn. this Thursday~ Nov. 11. Leaving late afternoon. Call BobQy 346-1}829. · C.S., T;B., A.M., B.C., K.L.: Beware on the 13th. to A.R. - What was wrong with the \masterpiece\ drawn on your car last spring? Correct me if l am wrong, but wasn't your criticism directed primarily at its low quality? t'rn sure if you don't remember, Bruce will. Who's the chicken ngw? -J.L. To the .guys on second fl9or West - Can you cook anything besides spaghetti? Amy: IhanKs for the tip en studying. Bet here is where you and 1 a'iffer. When it becomes a choice between friendship and sch\ool 1 choose friendship. \ Sorry Colleen but I cail them as I see them. Dear R.T., You make me la1,1gh 'Cause your eyes They .light the night They look right through me. You, friend of mine You 1 re hiding something sweet Please give it to me. Talk to me some more You know that you .don't have to .go You make things all rhyme. You are a genie All .J· ask (or is your smile Each time l rub a lamp. When I am with you I have a ·giggling teenage cr\lsh Then I'm a sultry vamp. So once again It's time to say so long And so recall the lull of life. Sincerely yours,. R. T., Elizabeth Donna - Thanks for the good time. - Bob M. Joe • Mo • Moses - Moseph - a logical progr~ssion. lley, li~ten, all this talk about my sexual 'member (and I don't mean member of lhe Elk's Club, although . sizewise, it's close) has just got to stop. I'm taking lessons to be a heterosexual now, and at ten bucks a shot I don't want to waste them {and ten is more than you pay). I don't want you to· queer up the deal, as it were. And let's put my relations with King Kong behind us (it's more fun tliat way. Oops; slipped again. I'll never make a good straight) - Mo. Free Karate Demo. Saturday, II p.m. M.H. Scltool of the martial arts. Expert instruction, extensive libniry, inner peace. Hey bob- \do dis.\ Carl - did you know you have beautiful eyes? . ; . MSM - Soon- HL To the Grounds Committee: Union College has now been distinguished by having a second former studen't attain the office of the Presidency of the United States. In honor of this momentous event, we propose that a statue of Jimmy Carter be erected on campus. Furthermore, following the tradition of the Idol, we heartily recommend a stipend for an unlimited . su.pply of peanut butter (preferably chunk style) to be used liberally and regularly to garnish aforementioned monument. - EC, LP,. pH, and \Me\ The US was supposed to be V.S. To whom it may concem: An apology is expected to be delivered to Janie concerning the comment in last week's personal. Future unfavorable comments or remarks will not be tolerated and will be dealt with severely. Jim - I did not think you would be the easy come, easy go type. Oh well, if that is the way you are going ,to be then ... Amy V .S. - sorry that last personal, you really are not a bitch ... but I am still not sure about Colleen. Janie: To err is human but if you err in the Wrong direction it could be flirting with danger (or anyone else for that matter). • I am Union's own bionic man. I run and write with truly blinding speed. I have been compared to Union's computer in writing speed far out-classing even IBM or Xerox. Who am I? For a view of the action stop by Bailey·Zloat 10:30. Note: for answer see any Math student. Est-ce que Mlle. 'Trots a le nez gros? Oili, elle en avoir. ¢ _' ' Did you know there are only 44 days until Chrishrias? R.S. - any hot tips on the horses? An eccentric Union College alumnus has established the Mr. Geek Pinball Fellowship. All college students wishing to spend a year traveling around the globe in search of \the perfect affie\ are urged to enter~ This is not an academic fellowship so knowing Bried won't help. To enter, write a 300-500 word essay on the technical disadvantages of a Spin 'n' Spot, and its social ramifications. One winner will be selected. The prize includes exclusive use of all Skellar equipment, and $7,000 in quarters. Submit all essays to R. Smedley Hercules (class of '02) c/o the Concordiensis. All essays must be submitted on or before Jan. 20, 1977. John, Allen, Mike: If you shoot that dog, we'll call the A.S.P.C.A. I would like to explain myself, once and for ail.. yiskdjwodjfhskdj eufuvk !!ikdo fkso dkfj djfiowei cjs idjshs s sjdfh. - Lester Weiss How about renaming the 'Classifi~ds' page the 'Geekifieds' page? It's all for you, Affien! I would just. like to expalin to the campus in geperal that several of the personals that have appeared under the monacre 'Fax' were not written by me. How could I have written them, I'm not even a human! Fax Okay, gang, this one's serious. There really is a Nickname Club which actually will be producing a volume of material to be named \The Nickname Journal, Volume One.\ If you have a friend, or for that matter a bitter enemy, who has a nickname of any kind and would like to see it printe,d in a sturdy binder, just jot it down and submit it to Box 297 for inclusion. \Eight-Ball\ Trenilett would like to thank all those Who submitted' suggestions for a nickname to replace \Jimmy.\ Seeya in \The Journal!\ ,.14li!¥:.~:;r:~\'..i~~. :: .. ~;::.1,':_-: '~·· Dear S.L. ..,. Congratulations, what a brain, you have ~ome head on your shoulders, yol!'re a genius, I sure hope that's enough. J.L No more talk of Blair, please. I'm nauseous . 'Fo ·Ba; Jules, Marietta, and Murph: I vote yes for the sign and for the return of the candy jar!! The fifth man. Get yo~r complimentary eggrolls - see sidewalk, North Davidson. Friday 5 p,m. Bring spatula. A big hello to DiCk artd Je~k Face. - Evan and -Randy Lester WeiSil, cartoonist~pro-excellence - Good news! You're not insane·! We slipped your last cartoon into a batch of Rorschach inkblots that were about to be used to test a looney. He identified your drawing of Jimmy Carter(?) as a map of the New Jersey Turnpike. So have no lear, you're Okay! It's the rest of us that need help. - The Lester Weiss Interpretation Council. Edwin Winthrop - Y au hit the nail on the head! C.L., How are the twins? The management. Cam - coma .me Bobby Lee: PLEASE grow your moustache back - one who knows. . My life for a thesis. Jeff L. - is the 11oor still shaking? Dear Jeff L. - we all admire the smooth moves you put on that young gull - signed the Webster House nuts. --~ Joe Capp., Heard you've been sleeping with Fax· (the mad vomiter). That'll teach ya. Paul Markessinis has heen here for over 1 yr. and still doesn't have a nickname. All entries for the best nickname should reply to Box 397. To The Campus: We see no reason why you can't submit your personals typed. That way you are sure of getting them in the paper the way you want them. Limited Time Officer! Prime cut cat filet. Contact Mikey, Davidson 312. Cont!'ary to popular belief, Grusk did not hurt his playing hockey. He has syphilis. Coming soon- Mike Heinz!! Lipper ..... 0·9, could be worse - but not much. R.S. and Co. Green Gremlin - I like your driver - Silver Cutlass. Mach - I'm a nut! Bima Dave: lt takes a real man to admit his mistakes. I accept your apology, But you'd better not turn your back on me - ever. The Stein. To whom it concerns: A nuSSive is on the way. Love, cute and adorable. Hey. Dish - How's the Physics lab hopping along? Hope it's done by Friday night! Hey, don\t rush off to heinous conclusions.,. Convei'Sation was lagging. Toots. To both Jonathan Edwards fans - let's hear it for Mick Jagger (not to mention Ai:menian goldfish). The Midnight Rambler. D.P.: If not for a long while, why not for a short while? If not now, when? - N. Franny - Was there anybody in the bathroom? S.G. Elizabeth - You advised me to keep looking - are you willing to meet half way? Cervantes - P.S. I did not know about his daUghter. Kathy: I can't get the A.C.E. farm girl off of my mind. P.S. there are trees in Boston. Eileen - l feel I have waited a respectable amount of time. Now comes the big question. How personal, do you want it all to be? We mUst get together and taiic: seriously (as serious as I can be, at any rate) -Moses. . . ,.__)~-- .

.J .J • ~ .. ,~. ·~ ' ; ~ .. ·. ,.,., : . . ~.-· ...... :.,_ .. ~. ··t,_,,i ·~ • 1 ; ... ~ • . ~ ~ t • • • r _ • nus.e ·.~~. •. • ' ? • : •• •• ::,_:: • .,. ~ • ·~ ·i 1:~ ,;J .\t' .•. .':. \ ~§~-!\'.1fE~f! _:. ·presents oup an ala pec1a FROM NOVEMBER 11 THRU 17TH FOR ONLY LARGE SALAD ~- Save·More With-Presentation Of Coupons Below r------------.-------------------- .... -.--------------------------------, ·1 ~ale ~nuse lf ~al~ ~nusc f. 1 Soup & Salad II Soup & Salad J SPECIAL l j SPECJAL I s~ ott n 10~ -ott 1 Regular Price of a MEDIUM SALAD(IRegular Price of a LARGE SALADj I NOVEMBER 11-17, 1976 . . . . I• . NOVEM!JERll-17,1976 .. . . .. ·' I or A FREE CUP of SOUP 1! . · or A FREE CUP of SOUP l L----------------------------------------.-----------------•---------J. . . - Thu Place me--. Eastman-Kc on Nov. 19. technical p literature in learn of p< Chemistry, I and Mecl majors. To Design a Manufactur Sales, C Engineering office. J;nternat AssocjatioJ 0rganizatior .p.m. Strau HalL Lecture: Meditation ·Program to will be gi\ House loun. Placement .Looking fo1 .and Elect ric Project Engi Managem1 Engi neeri n~ Oevelopm Evaluation. a.m.-5 p.m. Two Filr11 Tse- Tung,' biography revolutionar~ China,\ a r insight intc attitudes tha since r949. History dept 016. Chemistry Dr. Roger Delaware wi' and Cher Compounds. Engineering, Museum-· Series - Tl Israel perf< Opus 70, Dvorak's Mendelssohn 8:30p.m. M Faculty-St Benefit Unio Center. Sing music. Also readings. 9 a Room. Cam

.- ·,- ' . .: .. :,._ - ;: : ->·' . ' ' . ' : -:. . ' .·- ·,;- :._ ,.' .. :. :-'< ... '\ ·. · · · ·.· · expeded ·to be arJie to co;rtle up call ~ • .. · ~r~ade~i.Q:g ~ur ho:ri~~~ with anything that might DQssJbly find ... ndering .as to just ~~- :t~ ,· ·' rrtiliJ:K·-····'>~ · pl!shmg ever onward tow&rd be considered usefu1 by thosewh0 what isth'¢ Qse of the Union ·of mHk·at Hale House rase ·f&T tbeh'· ·frontiers that are limited only by are n<Jt concerned with the College €heerleadet; Last this fall wltereas it was ottly '30¢- ·His inquiry· snowed tllt'I!HhM our imaginations. Those peop-le condition as a whole Saturday's crowd at Alexander last yeaC Knowing that 'a \1.1 sthool ca'feteria~s milk -\''''-'LC. ~ho _fed .that Pr?gress in this Therefore, it is my contention Field wacs a very quiet, almost gallon containe'r of milk can be needed to be readjusted. dtrecllon ts not tmportant are that serious consideration should disinterested group of students, purchased at local grocery stores restaurants'· prices va·r!ecl th~)se _who are not aware of. the be given to trying to better faculty, and staff. It' is up to any for 75q:, one student spoke to the 25¢ to 35¢ f<>F 8 QZ. of milk. As P 0 s s' b le far· reach 1 ng understand the unpredictable Cheerleader to recognize this, and director of the SAGA dining hall, result, the ····SAGA management consequences of this pragmatic effects of a situation that is so do something to instill Mr. Gary Hipp. He explained has deci<led to tower their mill} problem. In fact,.fai_lure to_in~tiate explosive and controversial that enthusiasm. They failed horribly! that the increases in prices for prices. The ma~agement is still som~ sort of actl~n w1th1~ a should it be allowed to rage The only crowd that appeared in milk, as well as ·for other items, delibera-ting on whether to charge relatively short penod of time untempered; it could cause .a,n the least bit interested was a small were due to the rising costs of 30¢ for a JO~ l.2 oz. cup and/or co~ld def!nitely result in a more uncomfortable amount of unrest group of grammer school girls. supply (a confidential figure} in 25¢ for an 8 oz. cup. Until the senous sttU~tton tha~ the one and agitation among the general This says a lot. , addition to the rising cost of llnal decision is IUade, 12 oz. cups currently bemg expenenced. We populace. Although the troubles Girls, save the chit-chatting for overhead. SAGA's increased of milk will ·be S<lld for 30¢. can see •. then. th~t the fact of the of Pandora's box have already the 'post-game parties. Do the job income is not going toward profit, Besides reviewing the price of matter !s that thts .c?uld create a been irrevocably released, it is not you are supposed to - motivate Mr. Hlpp explained. Their goal is milk, Mr. Hipp intends to review very htgh probabthty that our too late for each and every one of the crowd. The home football to break even. The cafeteria has, the whole pnce structure at Hale c!lances of finding any kind of you to mal<e every possible effort season h. over, so we won't see to charge more than the actual and the Sketler. This year's workable solution will be to help in any wa:y you can in you on Alexander Field any more cost of its products in order to incr,e~ents were based .upon a decreased to such an extent that order that we might, once again, this year, but if you persist in pay fot factors such as labor, dects1on to S!le:~d up :servtce at the even attempting to alleviate this have hope of living in a peaceful inhabiting Memorial Field House, rent, and electricity. counter. lncre.me:nts ?f, 20$ w:re P~tentially dangerous condition and prospering community. this winter, my suggestion to you With milk priced at 4fli!! a cu:p, thought to. m~ke ca.s~u~r serVlee WtH. almost assuredly come to no (The issues in this letter are is Practice, man, Practice. the demand for the product could faster. Wlude so-me fo-od avall. N~verthekss, we must ~ake fictionaL Any similarity between Sincearely, very likely be droppi:rig. This may were increaiied aecC>rding to this a conscwus effort t~ take mto these and any real issues, be they Charlie Flanagan not hurt the SAGA food servi<:e schedule, athe:-rs were decreased. · aceount, and .to ren:a1n_ aware of living ·or \ dead, is purely as they could easily deqrease their Those items as~igned the fact that, m a~l hkehhood, the coincidental}. prrees eut suppty by buying tess milk. prices . were also . actiust'ed,l app-earances are m favor of any . . However, it does hurt the accordin~ . to quanttty. number of prospective options Sincerely, To the Editors; . producer-consumer relationship, exam~le tlS. tl'le m~t;. such that the choice as to whether Adam Frey lt pays to complam, as long as which is bad for busitness .. :. · sandwtches •. m~tead ef 2!4 or not to employ any or all of .• , · your express your fee!ings to th7: Mr, Hipp- thought onetsofution; SOq;, 3 1:)~·, ._.ase~ beiu:g. · · · · them cannot be determined by a elaeerleaule~~f.~\- , :,.,. c~rrect sourc~s. Thts colleg~S' migh~ ,·be-! -to:· keep.·-:iilm' 'PcicCH.j\SA:Ofl- 1 -~ ~~5¥'~YP.:H us-t·ofilter'l , ~uperficiftt~.e~~ · · 9! . ; · .. ··<>:~aw:;:,,: student body IS notpowerless'tto quantity ratio constatit ···by~diSsa,tts.factton, ... · · ':t:~\'.wr: .. ,, To the Editors: h o · l · uatton at uau~. , . correct t e s;:atus ·quo. ne d:ecreasing the cup size with the· constructlVe·lY . e.xpresse<i, e · must not overlook the fact I am a little dismayed to say the example of thts occurred when price. This would enable students very weH lead to further that we certainly could not be least, at the group of girls who Hale House's milk prices were to buy less milk at a lower price, adjustme-nts. Sln®Jlely, but W<luld not solve the real Janet oup • < ' ~ •' ' ' ' • I j' • •' ' ' • • ' I _. • ' • < • • nuse presents an ala FROM NOVEMBER 11 'IrHRU 17TH lF(lR ONLV LARGE SALAD ~ Save More With Presentation Of Coupons Below r~~-----------~---~--~-----------,-r------------~--------~-~~-~-~~-1 I I I 1 ~ale ~nuse II ~ale ~nuse 1 I I I Soup & Salad II Soup & Salad SPECIAL II SPECIAL s~ ott 11 10~ Off 1 Regular Price of a MEDIUM SALADI!Regular Price of a LARGE SALAD! I NOVEMBER 11-17, 1976 I I NOVEMBER 11-17, 1?76 . I I or A FREE CUP of SOUP II or A FREE CUP of SOUP I L----~------~-~~-~-~---~-~-~~-~~----~-~~-~--~~--~---------~--~-----J • I I . t I I I I II II II I - Thu Piacemell1 Eastman-Ko on Nov. 19, technical p literature im learn of pc: Chemistry, I ar:~d Meet majors. To Desi.gn a Manufacturi Sales, C Engineering. office. lnternat Associa·tior organization p.m. Strau: Halt Lecture: Meditation Program to wiH be giv House loUHJ Placement Looking for and Electric Project Engi1 Managem( Engineering Develop In Evaluation. a.m.-5 p.m. Two Film Tse- Tung,' biography revolutionary China,\ a r insight into attitudes tha1 since 1949. History dept. 016. Chemistry Dr. Roger Delaware wil and Che11 Compounds. Engineering, Museum·' Series - Tt Israel perfc Opus 70, Dvorak's Mendelssohn XJO p.m. M Faculty-St: Benefit Uni01 ('enter. Singi mu~ic. Also rl'ad ings. 9 a Ronm. Carn1

- ......... - ... .,. ...... _._ Page JJ·. calenoar ·Attention Skiers!! Placement Sign-ups for Eastman-Kodak, Technical only, on Nov. 19, only 2 recruiters for technical positions. Must read Hteratme in Placement office to Jearn of positions. Will talk to Chemistry, Eh;ctrical Engineerins. and Mechanical Engineering majors. To work in Research, Design and Development, Manufacturing staff, Chemical Sales, Customer Set:vice Engineering. I ;30 p.m. Placement office. J;nternat-ionaJ: Students Association will have an arganizational meeting at 9:30 p.m. Strauss lounge. Carnegie HaiL Lecture: The Transcendental Meditation Tecbnique A ·Program. to Create an Ideal Man will be given at 8 p.m. Hale House lounge. Placemen~ - Dept. of Navy. looking for Civil, Mechanical . and Electrical engineers to_ do Project Engineering, Program Management, Logistics Engineering, Research and [) e vel o p men t, Test a nd Evaluation. Placement office 9 · a.m.-5 p.m. Fri., No\·. : :.! Film Committee presents West Side Story,. 7, 9:45 p.m. Soc. Sci. Rm. 016. Lecture: Sexual Surgery, Prof. G.3. Barkcr-Bcnficld, author of Horrors of .the Half Known Life will discuss some of the material he is u~ili1ing for his new book. Lecture is sponsored by dcpts. of History and Philosophy. Beer and chips served following the lecture. 3 p.m. Humanities bldg Rm 117. Peer Gynt, by Ibsen. Mountebanks. Admission $2 to the general public and 75~e to Union students with ID's. 8 p.m. Nott Memorial theatre. Dodge Ball Game. 7~9 p.m. Sponsored by the Positive Action group .. Fieldhouse. Sat., No\\ I 3 Women's Volleyb~ll. NYS at Genesco. Away. Varsity Football, Union vs . Hamilton. Awa'y. 1:30 p.m. Film Committee Presents West Side Story. 7, 9:45p.m. Soc. Sci. Rm. 016. Peer Gynt performance at 8 p.m. Nott Memorial theatre .. ~ Big Brothers & Big Sisters of Schenectady will hold a Disco. 8:30 p.m. at Alumni gym. All proceeds will go to the Big Brothers· & Big Sisters of Reception after in Hale Hguse Lounge. ~ p.m. Soc. Sci. 016. \\'~d • ., No,· ~ 7 pJ·acement: Cornell University Women's Volleyball. Union vs. Grad. Sdwul nf' Bu~inc~~ and Castleton and Green Mounta.in 4 Public Admini,tration. ::1 group p.m. Alumni gym. meetings. I hour each. 9 a.m.-J Film Committee prescnh p.m. Placement office. Mutiny on the Bounty. 7, 9:15, Seminar Series: Dr. Virginia II: 30 p.m. Soc. Sci. 0 Hi. Hadden of Rutgers Uni\. wiH Schenectady ('ounty Public discus~ Synthesis of Novel Library presents How to Study .Bridgehead {'umpounds by 1.4 - Hints lo Make it Easier 7:30 Aryl Participation. 4:30 p.m. Sci. p.m. Call 3~2-3500. Center NW 116. Volunteer Day. Strauss Campus Voice Union's Lounge. Carnegie Hall. II a.m.-4 .investigative newspaper, meets p.m. every Monday at 7:30 p.tn., on Planning . & Priorities the 2nd floor of Carnegie in the Committee Meeting. Final Women's Caucus lounge. All arc deliberations on the 1977-78 welwme. bud:get. AH are welcome. 12:30 Tues.CJ No''• ~ 8 Garry Wills lectures on the Declaration of Independence ·every Tuesday night. 8 p.m. Soc. Sci. 016. p.m. Bailey .HaiL Rm. 105. Lecture: Prof. Thomas Patterson, Pol. Scientist from Syracuse U ., and co-author of The Unseeing Eye will speak on The Impact of the Media in Presidential Elections, reception follows. ~ p.m. Strauss lounge. Lecture: Is Capitalism Self- State Space Formulation of Destructive? with Russell Sage Linear Hybrid Systems, Dr. Allen facu'lty members Dr. James Heaney, GE Co., Ordinance Moran and Dr. Rolf Ahlers. Systems, heads an R&D effort McMurray-Gale Formal lounge. whose objective is the Russell Sage College. 7:30 p.m. implementation of second order Placement: Buffalo Forge. Only programmable transfer modules. one recruiter, looking for His talk should be of particular Mechanical and Civil Engineers interest to signal processing and for positions in Sales Engineering. simulation persons, as well as Product Management and others interested in Controls & Engineering. Sign-up Nov. 2. 9 Systems. For info. call Frank a.m.-5 p.m. Placem~nt office. Stelmack 370-6265. 7 p.m. There will be an organizational meetit1g for anyone interested in participating in either the ski club or the ski team this v.inter on lhursday, November II at !S:OO p.m. at Alpha Delta Ph1. l he Union College Sk1 Club i.s ome again spomonng ~k.1mg on Tuesday nights during the wmter. Last year's trips went to West Mountain, but thi~ )car Jiminy Peak and Taconic lra1h ar~· also possibilities. The price \\ 1ll be in the neighborhood ol $30.00, which will include the co~t uf lifts and transportation fur ~ix nights of skiing. Slightly higher rates are available for lessons and equipment rentals. Thi~ is a great way to learn how to ski at a reasonable price. In addition, the ski team will once again compete in six varsity ski meets against schools throughout New York State. Events include slalom. giant sla- lom cross countrv. and Nordic , . jumping. Anyone of competent skiing ability is welcome to be on the team. If you are at all intcrest~d in either the ski club ur ski team, please try to attend this important organizational meeting. LUKE'S SUPERMARKET 830 EASTERN AVE. 8 AM · 10 PM 7 DAYS Full line of deli, cold beer and soda, produce and grocery. Two Films on China: \Mao Tse- Tung,'' an ex.ceUent biography of Mao as a revolutionary leader, and \Mao's China,\ a remarkably objective insight into the forces and attitudes that have shaped Chilla since r949. Sponsored by the History dept: 7:30-9 pm .. SS Rm. Schenectady. ,----------------------------------------~--------------------------------~ Sun.,.Nov ~ 4 016. . Film Committee preJients West Side Story. 7, 9:45 p.m. Soc. Sci. Chemistry Seminar Series - Dr. Roger Murray Jr., U. of Delaware will speak on Synthesis and Chemistry of C-age Compounds. 4:30 p.m., Sci. & Engineering, N W 116. Museum-College Con·cert Series - The Yuval Trio from Israel performing Beethoven's. Opus 70, No. I, \Ghost Dvorak's .. Dumky,\ and Mendelssohn's D Minor, Op. 49. 8:30 p.m. Memorial chapel. Faculty-Staff Talent Show - Benefit Union College Child Care Center. Singing and instrumental music. Also guitar and poetry readings. 9 and Ill p.m. Cabaret Room. Carnegie Hall. Rm. 016. · Catholic Mass, followed by a sociaL 7:.30 p.m., Carnegie Hall. Strauss Lounge. Film: It Happened One Night, starring Clark Gable and Claudette Colbert. Schact Fine Arts ·Center, Russell Sage College. 7:30 p.m., Admission 50u;. Peer Gynt presented at 8 p.m. Nott Memorial Theatre. Mon • ., Nov. ~ 5 Garry · Wills lectures on The Challenge of the Gospel. SCHENECTADY 1614 State St. 370-0440 WfifRE Vou 66T A ~{])f CPJJEr4 OF FIJN The Portable Party: 30 PROOF AND READY W GO G~t the great new taste tn mocna, coconut, banana or strawberry.

. j I ' I , Page 15 calenoar l ·, • - ~ ' ' ; . . ., - ' . 'I ' ' • \' • ·Attention Skiers!! Placemeut - Sign-ups for Eastman-Kodak, Technical only, on Nov. 19, only 2 recrui•ters for technical positioNs. Must read literature in Placement office to learn of positions. Will talk to Chemistry, Electrical Engineerins, and Mechanical Engineering majors. To work in Research, Desi.gn and Development, Manufacturing staff, Chemical Sales, Customer Service Engineering. I :30 p.m. Placement office. In tern a tiona I Students Association will have an organizational meeting at 9:30 p.m. Strauss lounge. Carnegie Hall. Lecture: The Transcendental Meditation Technique A Program to Create an Ideal Man wiH be given at 8 p.m. Hale House lounge. Placement - Dept. of Navy. Looking for Ci vii. Mechanical and Electrical engineers to_ do Project Engineering, Program Management, Logistics Engineering, Research and Developrnent, Test and Evaluation. Placement office 9 a.m.-5 p.m. Film Committee presents West Side Story, 7, 9:45p.m. Sor. Sci. Rrn. 016. Lecture: Sexual Surgery, Prof. G.J. Barkcr-Benfield, author of Horrors of the Half Kmi)wn Life wil:l discuss some of the material he is utili1ing for his new book. Lecture is sponsored by depts. of History and Philosophy. Beer and chips served following the lecture. 3 p.m. Humanities bldg Rm 117. Peer Gynt, by Ibsen. Mountebanks. Admission $2 to the general public and 75Q: to Union students with !D's. 8 p.m. Nott Memorial theatre. Dodge Ball Game. 7-9 p.m. Sponsored by the Positive Action group. Fieldhouse. Women's Volleyball, NYS at Genesco. Away. Varsity Football, Union vs. Hamilton. Aw:Iy. 1:30 p.m. Film Committee Presents West Side Story. 7, 9:45 p.m. Soc. Sci. Rm. 016. Peer Gynt performance at 8 p.m. Nott Memorial theatre. Big Brothers & Big Sisters of Schenectady will hold a Disco. 8:30 p.m. at Alumni gym. All proceeds will go to the Big Brothers & Big Sisters of Reception after in Hale House Lounge. X p.m. Soc. Sci. 016. Placement: Cornell University Women's Vo!leybaU. Union vs. Grad. S~.:hoo:l of Bu~ines~ and Castleton and Green Mountain. 4 Public Admini~.tratitln. 3 group p.m. Alumni gym. meetings, I hour each. lJ a.m.-J Film Commi.ttee pre~ent~ p.m. Placement office. Mutiny on the Bounty. 7. 9:!5. Seminar Series: Dr. Virginia l I: 30 p.m. Soc. Sci. 0 I 6. Hadden of R utger~ Uni\. will Schenectady County l)ublic discuss Synthesis of Novel Library prcsenb How to Study Bridgehead Compounds by 1,4 - Hints to Make it Easier 7JO Aryl Jlarticipation. 4:30p.m. Sci. p.m. Call JX2-J500. Center l\iW 116. Volunteer Day. Strauss Campus Voice Umion's Lounge. Carnegie Hall. II a.m.-4 investigative newspaper, meets p.m. every Monday at 7:30 p.m., on Planning & Priorities the 2nd floor of Carnegie in the Committee Meeting. Fi na I WomeN's Caucus lounge. All are deliberations on the !977-7~ welcome. budget. AH are welcome. 12:30 Garry Wills lectures on the Declaration ef Independence every Tuesday nigl'lt. 8 p.m. Soc. Sci. 016. Lecture: Is Capitalism Self- Destructive? with Russell Sage faculty members Dr. James Moran and Dr. Rolf Ahlers. McMurray-Gale Formal lounge. Russell Sage College. 7:30 p.m. Placement: Buffalo Forge. Only one recruiter, looking for Mechanical and Civi·l Engineers for positions in Sales Engineering. Product Management and Engineering. Sign-up Nov. 2. 9 a.m.-5 p.m. Placement office. p.m. Bailey .Hall. Rm. Hl5. ·Lecture: Prof. Thomas Patterson. Pol. Scientist from Syracuse U ., and co-author of The Unseeing Eye will speak on The Impact of the Media in Presidential Elections, reception follows. 8 p.m. Strauss lounge. State Space Formulation of Linear Hybrid Systems, Dr. Allen Heaney, GE Co., Ordinance Systems, heads an R&D effort whose objective is the implementation of second order programmable transfer modules. His talk should be of particular interest to signal processing and simulation persons, as well as others interested in Controls & Systems. For info. call Frank Stelmack 370-6265. 7 p.m. There will he an organi;ational meeting for anyone mt•:rcsted in participatiNg in either tlw ski dub or the ski team this 'Miller on lhun,day, l'<ovember ll at li:UU p.m. at Alpha Delta l'h1. l he UnioH Co.llege Ski Uuh i:; once again spunsonng skung on iuesday nights during tlw winter. Last year\ trips v.ent to West Mountain, hut this ~c·.tr Jiminy Peak and laconic I rar;, arc· also possibi.lities. I he price 111ll be in the neighborhood ol $30.00, which will include tht: l• \t of lifts and transportation for ,jx nights of skiing. Slightly higher rates are available for lessPns and equipment rentals. Thi, is a great way to learn how to ski at a reasonable price. In addition, the ski team will once again compete in six varsity ski meets against schools throughout New York State. Events include slalom. giant sla- lom cross countrv. and Nordic ' - JUmping. Anyone of competent skiing ability is welcome to be on the team. If you are at all interested in either the ski club or ;.ki team, please try to attend this important organizational meeting. LUKE'S SUPERMARKET 830 EASTERN A\\ .E. 8 AM - 10 PM 7 DAYS Full line of deli, cold beer and soda, produce and grocery. Two Films on China: \Mao Tse- Tung,\ an excellen1 biography of Mao as a revolutionary leader, and \Mao's China,\ a remarkably objective insight into the lorces and attitudes that have shaped China since 1949. Sponsored by the History dept. 7:30-9 pm .. SS Rm. 016. Schenectady. ,------------------------------------------------------------------------------~ Chemistry Seminar Series - Dr. Roger Murray Jr., U. of Delaware will speak on Synthesis and Chemistry of Cage Compounds. 4:30 p.m., Sci. & Engineering, N W 116. Museum-College Concert Series - The Yuval Trio from Israel performing Beethoven's Opus 70, No. I, \Ghost Dvorak's \Dumky and Mendelssohn's D Minor. Op. 49. X . .lO p.m. Memorial chapel. Faculty-Staff Talent Show - Benefit Union College Child Care ( ·L'nter. Singing and instrumental mu~ic. Also guitar and poetry JL·adings. 9 and II p.m. Cabaret R nom. Carnegie Hall. Sun., Nov~ 4 Film Committee presents West Side Story. 7, 9:45 p.m. Soc. Sci. Rm. 016. Catholic Mass, followed by a social. 7:30 p.m., Carnegie Hall. Strauss Lounge. Film: It Happened One Night, starring Clark Gable and Claudette Colbert. Schact Fine Arts Center, Russell Sage College. 7:30 p.m., Admission 50~. Peer Gynt presented at 8 p.m. Nott Memorial Theatre. Garry Wills lectures on The Challenge of the Gospel. SCHENECTADY 1614 State Sta 370-0440 WHERE YOU GET A ~(])f ()RJJEP.. OF FUN ~ 0 e 0.. The Portable Party: 30 PROOF AND READY 1V GO Get the J?reat new taste in mocna, coconut, banana or strawberry.

Page 16 CONCORDJENSIS, Wednesday, Nov. 10, 1976 5pOrt5 • e. ' •' • ,• • ; • ' • -' • • > • _' • • ,. .. • •' ~ • \ ... o • • • ' ' • \ :. : Gridders Bow to Middlebury by CHARLIE FLANAGAN & LANCE BOBROW huHdred yards. It wasH't fair to either team to be subjected to this slop. Returning to things at hand, Coach Cahill commented on the disappointing loss. '\I thought they played very well under tfue conditions. and I thought we played Ofle of ou-r poorer games of the year. I'm under no illusions. ·1 hey had a very good football team - better than ours, but I doH't think they're 44 points better.\ Middlebury then scored three touchdowns in the second quarter and two touchdowns in each ol the final two statuas to put the game on ice. While all of this scoring was going on, Union could only muster up 101 yards iN total offense compared to the Panthers' awesome total of 392 yards. The Dutchmen are now 2-5 this season heading into the final game of the season at Hamilton this Saturday. Hopefully, there will be some outstanding performers against Hamilton and Union can look forward to next season by ending this one Oil a winning note. This would indeed prove that there has been some improvement this season as this observer was in evidence of until tast week. \Rodeo\ Romer coralled by unidentified Panther. The Garnet gridders fell upon rough times last Saturday in their encounter with the Panthers from Middlebury. The Dutchmen ended up on the short side of a 50-6 score. The win marked Middlebury's fifth straight victory over Union and by far its most impressive. Although the score indicated a runaway we feel the game would have been closer if played under better conditions. (For those of you who played under such conditions.) The best adjective to describe the playing surface was mucky. The north end of Alexander Field could have passed for any bog. The rolled and lined swamp was deceptive at first sight, however once the hoof of a burly Middlebury gridder came in contact with this marsh, it was evident at least to these authors that the game should never have been played on this stretch of one Remarkably, Union scored the first points of the game. The moment of glory for the Dutchmen came when Greg Bolinsky pounced on a fumbled Middlebury snap at the Panther 20. Mark Broomfield then hit the big tight end Frank Hoster on a fourth down pass to advance the baH to the six. Rich Romer then sprinted into the end-zone to give Union a 6-0 lead momentarily. Intramural Hooters Conclude Disappointing Season INTRAMURAL HOCKEY Top Ten Scorers as of Nov. 8, 1976 by SCOTT HEILBRUNN Name Team Pannell Fiji Lasko D.U. Rothman A.D. Phi Kahn M.A.K. Meyers M.A.K. Bodenstab D. Phi .Walzer A.D.Phi Trachtman D. Phi Tanner D.U. Nichols D.U. Goals 10 5 6 5 5 6 5 5 3 415 Ass'ts. 2 5 4 4 3 I I I 2 Total 12 10 10 9 8 7 6 6 5 When reflecting on the 1976 Soccer season, it is important to remember that it was one of rebuilding. Combining with this was the fact that the Garnet Squad faced an upgraded and challenging schedule. The teams which Union played possessed a total cumulative record of 90 wins and 32 losses. Eight of these squads will be participating in either NCAA or ECAC post- Gridders of the week Run Plum and John Speer PLAYf~RS OF THE WEEK Even though last Saturday\ defeat at the hands of Middlebury \-U!> nut one of the Dutchinen·~, hcst effort' of the 1976 season, t l.ae were 2 outstanding pcrfom1er' that ~tood out above alL ., he olft:n~ive standout wa' junior offensive nght guard, John Speer. Speer. v,ho haib from Little htl b. :\ Y. played a major role in the 1 1 nion offemive attack. '\1any a timt:. John ~A a~ \ictoriou~ in hi~ hattie against his opponent m the trencht:'. He I!\ an indt!->pen~ahlc part of the Dutchrnt:n\ offensive machine and wtll 'urel~ he heard from in the future. I he dcfem.tve standout was Ron PI urn of East Longmeadow, ME. A ftt:shman outside linebarker. Ron was always visible around the ball and was responsible for some of the hardest hits during the game. The most noteworthy point is that Ron played his heart out throughout the game, even when its outcome was no longer in doubt. Sporting Eye SPORTS AND WOMEN AT lJNION Face it. 1\ny girl who come~ to llnion doesn't come for sports. Rather. she comes lor a pre- profeo.;sional education. one where sports play a minor role. Therefore. it should be realited that women's sports here are for enjoyment. exercise and fun. .lust 2 years ago, women's athletics at llnion gained a varsity status. l his gave the participants the chance to really compete play other NESCAC schools, and play on a comparable level to their male counterparts. This is great. However, it is unlikely that a woman participating in athletics at Union will pursue that sport as a professional career. Union is not a jock school. Instead. it 1s a school with a name to be associated with academics, not athletics. (As ~tales the NESCAC rules.) lherelore. the women's o.;ports program 'hould be taken as a chance for the women to compete with their peers and learn something from their competition both physical and educational. ·1 his does not mean that women's sports shouldn't he taken seriously, hut the intense competition should be left on the field, not carried off. In conclusion, it is our hope that women's sports at Union will remain in the true spirit with which they originated: that is for competition to be the breeding ground for enJoyment, exercise and fun. - The Editors. season competition. Union split its final two games of the year. Perhaps the most satisfying victory this season came on the road against North Adams State. Prior to the game, State had proudly boasted of its 12 and I record. They had outscored their opponents 88 goals to 8. Their vision of a berth in the NCAA playoffs was dealt a severe blow when they were defeated by a fluid and aggressive Union Team. Ira Sutton opened the scoring at 41: 17 with a hard shot that was made possible by Paul Marvin's excellent pass. At 34:35 George· Garivaltis slammed home a shot on an assist from .lim Manning. Ten minutes later State's Tony Crisitelli drilled home a shot. The opposition scored a second goal at 21:39. With time running out in the first half £ George Garivaltis broke the 2-2 tie on a second from Jim Manning. North Adams State Scored two quick goals within the first 2 minutes of the second half. These scores gave State the lead, but the tide was about to turn. At 3!1:55 .John Kovacs shot the ball past the goalie on an assist from Ira Sutton. Mike Smith at 34:44, gave Paul Marvin a beautiful pass for another Union score. Pete Handy blasted a hard shot into the net at '>I :37 on another assist from Suton. John Kovacs concluderi the scoring at 17:47 on a pinpoint pass from Pete Handy. The final score read 7 to 4 but did not reflect the tremendous jubilation exhibited in the faces of Coach Mageee's team. The King's Point game brought more of the bad luck that has accompanied the Garnet Booters all season. During the regulation time of the game, both teams played to a scoreless deadlock. However, Union dominated play taking advantage with more shots 17 to 10. With only 50 seconds left in overtime, Kings Point scored on a disputed off-sides and pushing play to take the lead I to 0. Emotionally drained, the Union team was scored on again in the second overtime period. The final score was 2 to 0. This brings Union's Soccer season to an end with a five win and seven loss record. Next year will bring a tougher schedule; yet the Garhet Boaters, who have matured measurably this season, will undoubtedly prove equal to task. Pete Martini and Alex Shafer \dueting.\ ' l I ; l, Pro mm Ur by DAr Due demand. to begin an art need tt position priority disposal lhomas address fhese \'f from discretio college t down b: far in a< After presentee chairmat committe what to report, · Concord Union r Departrr already-! Departrr poor fa always the adt begin tt arts by r This ~ as the Commit defines 1 what ty historian Foru PAG COR Libr~ Cult1 Bro'\ Final Edit< tlb~ Ct!il~J

Page 16 CONCORP/'ENSIS, Wednesday, Nov. 10, 1976 5pOrt5 Gridders Bow to Middlehury by CHARLIE FLANAGAN & LANCE BOBROW hundred yards. It wasn't ·fair to either team to be subjected io this slop. Returning to things at hand, Coach Cahill commented on the disappointing loss, \l thought they played very well under the conditions, and J thought we played one of our poorer games of the year. I'm under no illusions. They had a very good football team - better than ours but I don't think they're 44 point~ better.\ .Middlebury then scored three touchdow11s in the second quarter and two toachdowns in each of the final two stanzas to put the game on ·ice. While all of this scoring was goin.g on, Union could only tnuster up 101 yards in total· offense com.pared ·to the Panthers' aw:esome total of 392 yard:;. The Garnet gridders fell upon rough times last Saturday in their encounter with the Panthers from Middlebury. The Dutchmen ended up on the short side of a 50-6 score. The win marked Middlebury's fifth straight victory over Union and by far its most impressive. Although the score indicated a runaway we feel the game would have been closer if played under better conditions. (For those of you who played under such conditions.) The best adjective to describe the playing stuface was mucky. The north end of Alexander Field could have passed for any bog. The rolled and Jined swamp mas deceptive at first sight, however once the hoof of a burly Middlebury gridder came in contact with this marsh, it was evident at least to these authors that the game should never have been played on this stretch of one Remarkably. Union scored the first points of the game. The moment of glary for the Dutchmen came when Greg Bolinsky pounced on a fumbled Mid~lebury snap at the Panther 20. Mark Broomfield then hit the big tight end Frank Hoster on a fourth down· pass to advance the ball to the six. Rich Romer then sprinted into the end-zone to give Union a 6-0 lead momentarily. The DutchEen are now 2-5 this sea11on beading into the final game of tlle season at Hamilton this Saturday. Hopefully, there will be s..ome outstanding performers against Hamilton and Union caB look. forward to next season by eading this one on a winning note._ This wottld indeed prove that there has been some improveQlent tllis season as. this . observer was in evidence of until last week. \Rodeo\ Romer coralled byunidentified Panther. Intramural BotJters Conclude DisappointingSeason INTRAMURAL HOCKEY by SCOTT HEILBRUNN Top Ten Scorers as of Nov. 8, 1976 season competition. When reflecting on the I 976 Union split its final two games Name Team Goals Pannell Fiji 10 Lasko D.iJ. 5 Rothman A.D. Phi 6 Kahn M.A.K. 5 Meyers M.A.K. 5 Bodenstab D.Phi 6 .Walzer A.D.Phi 5 Trachtman D.Phi 5 Tanner D.U. 3 Nichols D.U. 415 Ass'ts. 2 5 4 4 3 I l I 2 Total 12 lO 10 9 8 7 6 6 5 . Soccer season, it is important to of the year. Perhaps the. tnost remembel\ tbat it was one of satisfying victory this season carne rebuilding_ Combinin~ with this on the road against North Adams was ,the fac:t that the Garnet State~ Prior to the game, State Squad, faced an upgraded and had proudly boasted of its 12 and challenging schedule. The teams 1 · record. They had outscored which H~io11. played possesse~ a their opponents 88 goals to 8. total cumulative record of 90 wm~ Their vision of a berth in the and 32 Los:;;es. Eight of these NCAA playoffs was dealt a severe squads will · ·be participating in blow ~hen they were ~efeated _by either NCAA or ECAC post- a flmd and aggressive Umon · · Team. Ira Sutton opened the sebring at 41: 17 with a hard shot that was made possible by Paul Marvin's excellent pass. At 34:35 George'\ Garivaltis slammed home a shot on an· assist from Jim Manning. Ten minutes later State's Tony Crisitelli drilled home a shot. The opposition scored a second goal at 21 :39. With time running out in the first half £ George Garivaltis broke the 2-2 tie on a second from Jim Manning, North Adams State Scored two quick goals within the first 2 < • ~i11ut~\ QL the seconctl,~}l. The.l>e. scores gave State the lead, but the tide was about to turn. At 38:55 John Kovacs shot the ball past the goalie on an assi!)t from Ira Sutton. Mike Smith at 34:44, Gridders of the week Ron Plum and John Speer PLAYERS OF THE WEEK Even though last Saturday's defeat at the hands of Middl~bury was not one of the Dutchmen~s best efforts of the 1976 season, there were 2 outstanding performers that stood out above all. The offensive standout was junior offensive right guard, John Sprcr. Speer, who hails from Little Falls, NY, played a major role in the Union offensive attack. !\1any a time, John was victorious in his battle against his opponent in the trenches. He is an indispensable part of the Dutchmen's offensive machine and will surely be heard from in the future. Sporting Eye SPORTS AND WOMEN AT UNION Face it. Any girl who comes to Union doesn't come for sports. Rather, she comes for a pre- professional education, one where sports play a minor role. Therefore, it should be realized that women's sports here are for enjoyment, exercise and fun. Just 2 years ago, women's athletics at Union gained a varsity status. This gave the participants the chance to really compete - play other NESCAC schools, and play on a comparable level to their male counterparts: This is great. However, it is unlikely that a woman participating in athletics at Union will pursue that sport as a professional career. Union is not a jock school. Instead, it is a school with a name to be associated wit!I academics, not athletics. (As ~tate:s the NESCAC rules.) Thcrdu rc, the women's sports program. ~hould be taken as a chance for the women to compete with their peers and learn som~thi l)g from their competition -,- both physical and educationaL This d0es not mean that women's sports shouldn't be taken seriou:slY~ hut the intense cotnp.etitiort sh()uld be left on the field, not ca rtie<l off. In conclus.iort, it is our hope that womel1~s SJ>'or.ts at Union will remain in til1e true spirit with which they <Higinated: that is for competition to be the breedihg ground for enjoyment, exercise and fun. - 'l'he! Editors. gave Paul Marvin a beautiful pass for another Union score. Pete Handy blasted a hard shot into the net at ?1:37 on another assist from Suton. John Kovacs concluded the scoring at I 7:47 on a pinpoint pass from Pete Handy. The final score read 7 to 4 but did not reflect the tremendous jubilation ex:ch'ibited in the faces of Coach Mageee's team. The King's Point game brought more of the bad luck that has accompanied the Garnet Booters ali season. During the regulation time of the game, both teams played to a scoreless deadlock. However, Union dominated play taking advantage with more shots l7 to· J'O; ·With only 50 seconds left in overtime,. Kings Point scored on a disputed off-sides and pushing play to take the lead 1 to 0. Emotionally drained, the Union team was scored on again in the second overtime period. The final score was 2 to 0. This brings Union's Soccer season tcr. an end with a five win ,arid !>~~en', Jo~s;recot<f~· Neid year will bring a tougher schedule; yet the Garfiet Boaters, who have malured measurably this season, will undoubtedly prove equar to task. The defensive standout was Ron Plum of East Longmeadow, ME. .A freshman outside linebacker, Ron ·was always visible around the ball and was responsible for some of the hardest hits during the game. The most noteworthy point is that Ron played his heart out throughout the game, even when its outcome was no longer in ·doubt. Pet~ Martini and Alex Shafer \dueting.\ ' ' U11 by DAl' Due demand, to begin an art need tc position priority disposal Thomas address These \f1 from 1 discretio1 college t down b~ far in ac After presentee chairmar committ1 what to. report, ~ Concord Union t: Departrn already-! Depa,rtrn poor fa, always I the adr begin th arts by r, This ~ as the Commit defines 1 what ty historian

re ks ve to at lle . d i~ I 0 is Volume 106, No. 7 The Union College Black Students Al'l:iance Newspaper Wednesday, November 10, 1976 • EDITORS VIEWPOINT Last Tuesday the people of the United States elected a new President and Vice-President to govern them. To many it was a tight race until the end. Ford and Carter going into the election, each had a 50 C!c chamce of winning. But Jimmy Carter pulled it out, as he said he would. The question still remains in the minds of many individuals, \Can he actually succeed in doing all of the things he promised the people he would?\ Yes, Mr. Carter, along with his running partner Walter Mondale, have promised to work to strip away the secrecy in government, to expose the pressure of lobbyists, to eliminate waste, to release our civil servants from bureaucratic chaos, and to provide tough management. Carter and Mondale want to see that a Democratic administration works in harmony with Congress to achieve the chalilges that are needed such as: I. Tax Reform: Moving toward a truly fair and simple tax system, with reduced tax rates for the people. 2. Welfare Reform: Trying to establish a streamlined, simplified and fair welfare system with strong work incentives that promote family stability. 3. Health Care: Establishing a comprehensive national health program which will make adequate health care a right for people, be universal in scope and preserve the private relationship between doctor and patient. 4. Energy: Trying to get a coherent energy policy, by increasing emphasis on coal production and increased research on renewable sources of energy, such as solar, wind, and geothermal. To provide the leadership necessary for an effective voluntary conservation program. · 5. Arms Control: To reduce world dependence on weapons and to act aggressively to limit and ultimately eliminate the threat of nuclear destruction in all nations. 6. Fereign Policy: They plan to try to stop treating our allies as if they were our adversaries, and make it clear that detente is a two-way street. To promote human rights abroad and to deal affirmatively with the social and economic problems of the developing world. President Carter and Vice-President Mondale seem to be leaders for change, but can they really accomplish all that they plan to do in the next four years in the White House'? Only time will tell. But, in my own opinion, it's going to be a long four years for both men. I do hooe that they accomplish what they have said they would or ·what they (have set out to do), because if they don't, it will be one step backwards as tar as the Democratic party is concerned. And this would put them right alongside the Republicans. An lnteresti1ng Look At Sickle Cell In 1970 four United States black soldiers died while on maneuvers. Surprising? No, not really, except the soldiers were not m Vietnam, Laos, or Cambodia. They were at Fort Bliss, Texas. Their deaths resulted from ignorance and neglect not from an over-zealoHs driU instructor bHt from the fai'lure of the general public and the medical commt:mity to recognize a major health problem - sickle cell disease. With knowledge of the disease, of its effects and with proper counseling, the deaths of those four young men could have been lastingly prevented. Sickle cell disease is a disease of the blood that can cause grave injury and death. Hemoglobin, the fluid in our blood cells that makes them red, is the substance that takes oxygen from our lungs to the rest of our bodies. With exertion and muscle usage, hemoglobin uses oxygen and in most of us remains a fluid while returning to the lungs for more oxygen. Sickle cell hemoglobin is .fluid when carrying oxygen, but when oxygen is absent the hemoglobin becomes solid changing the normally doughnut- shaped red blood cells into a sickle, or new-moon shape. The result is painful, damaging, and sometimes fatal. When the cells sickle they no longer pass freely through smaller blood vessels; thus, a \log jam\ occurs within the vessels. This causes pain and destruction of the cells resulting in anemia. In more severe instrances it causes tissue loss or even \necrosis\ - the loss of an entire organ. Should this 'jamming\ occur extensively throughout the body, death will result. Understanding the Disease Sickle cell disease Is not contagious; it is inherited through the parents. While sickle lengthy obstructed blood now after unus1:1ally strenuous exercise, from the result of extreme exposure to cold, or complications from other serious diseases. The four soldiers at Fort Bliss had sickle cell trait, not sickle cell disease. An individual with sickle cell disease, typed SS, had parents who both had sickle cetl traits: AS + AS = SS. Such an individual Will have anemia and attacks of pain and fever. He may be underdeveloped. He may die at a young age. The disease first causes iUness between six months and five years of age. Sickle cell disease is inherited predominately by Blacks. It Is believed to have come from Africa where people with sickle cell hemoglobin had a natural immunity to malaria. Mediterranean anemia which affects Greeks and Italians Is similar to sickle cell, and 1s likewise a preventive against malaria. Sickle cell anemia is a genetic problem among Blacks just as cystic fibrosis, hemophilia and leukemia are genetic problems predominant in Whites. education along with massive testing programs can alleviate much of sickle cell's dangers. As mentioned earlier, awareness that one has the disease prevents problems. Unfortunately, one can live an entire lifetime and be unaware that he has sickle cell trait. For instance, Indiana University tested 275 persons in a 6-month span and found that 112 of them needed to return to the University for genetic counseling. A similar test conducted by the same institution at a foundry in Indianapolis revealed 10 out of 113 employees with sickle cell trait - all were totally unaware of it. The point? Now these people can avoid situations which might bring on a crisis and have other family members tested and counseled. At present there are special blood tests used to detect sickle cell disease but only one that is truly thorough. In recent years, a test has been devised and improved upon by Dr. Robert M. Nalbandian, MD, that requires only a small drop of blood from a finger. Called the Sickledex, it shows sickling if it is present; yet, to establish the specific type of sickle cell condition, whether full-disease or a trait, a test using blood drawn from the arm, electrophoresis, is a must. Besides being more thorough, electrophoresis has the added advantage of being cheaper than Sickledex and equally efficient for primary screening. The extensive equipment used by Indiana University cost approximately $1,000. To eqmp a smaller community, clinic or mobile lab would cost a fraction of the above. Cost can no longer be cited as too prohibitive to mount an attack on sickle cell anemia. The goals of such I sincerf.lly hope that our new President can clean cell disease can cause the damage up our mentioned above, it does not While sickle cell disease is not contagious, it also is not readily preventable or curable, although it is treatable. Only the symptoms of sickle cell disease, or sickle cell anemia, can be treated. When the cells sickle and blood flow ceases, drugs are used to ease pain and to alleviate dehydration and constriction of the blood vessels. New, more immediate forms of treatment are being researched. At present, the only form of prevention is testing for sickle cell trait in individuals. It is estimated that there are 2 million people m the United States with sickle cell trait. If 2 people with sickle cell trait marry, \4 will be normal and Y2 will have sickle cell trait. Each individual should know if they have inherited the sickle type 1 of hemoglobin not only to make reasoned decisions m family planning but, also, to a void conditions that might bring on a crisis precipitated by high altitudes and over-exertion. organizations as the Foundation for Research and Education m Sickle Cell Disease and the Southeastern Wisconsin Sickle Cell Center should and can be the viable goals of any community's. clubs and concerned organimtion~. They can conduct community information programs for patients and the public. They can encourage health olf1ciab and legislators to provide increased funds for research and health services. They can initiate and develop facilities for testing and counseling. government and help the United States get back on its feet happen to ev_ery sufferer of again. \sickling.\ The majority of ••••••••••••••••••••••••••• .. \sicklers\ have two sorts of hemoglobin: sickle cell and normal, with the type depending on the genes inherited from the What Should Be Done There will be a B.S.A. meeting this Thursday at Hockok House. Everyone who can, please attend. It is going to be quite important. Time - between 7:30-8:00 P.M. THANK-YOU ~wwwwwwwwwwwwwwwwww~ ~ --- CONTENTS --- ~ ~ Page ~ ~ Editor's Viewpoint 1 ~ ~ Focus on Sickle Cell 1 ~ ~ BLACK HISTORY 2 ~ ~ Important Blacks In ~ ~ The News 2 ~ ~ Notices 2 ~ ~ Sports 3 ~ ~ Creative Poetr)' 4 ~ ~ (This week Featuring: ~ ~ Mr. Joseph Johnson & Abdoulai Bambi) ~ ~~~A~~£~~A~~AAA&~~~~A~ parents. Half of one's hemoglobin is received from the mother and half from the father. Assuming both parents have normal hemoglobin then their offspring will have hemoglobin type AA. If one parent has \sickling\ hemoglobin and the other has normal hemoglobin the child will be a \sickler\ typed as AS. This child then has \sickle cell trait\ and is almost always healthy. Sickle cell trait is usually harmless. But not always. It can be harmful, even fatal, if there is a severe reduction of oxygen like that occuring at high altitude>. from a complicating anaesthetic, from severe lung disease, fn'm At present, the most effective means of controlling sickle cell disease are improved communication and education, plus large-scale testing programs. The average person has limited knowledge about sickle cell disease, its cause, its symptom:-, its dangers and its treatment. Black communities need more in- depth information and counseling as does the general public. Less than half of the black population has ever heard of this disease. The economic. educational, social and psychological effecb of ;,ickle cell disease affect all of us. Ma~s Tragedies like the one that occurred at Fort Bliss are preventable. Alleviating the problem ol ~ickle cell disease does not necessarily require money; however, it does require effort, information, time and genuine concern. And work should begin no\\. The Blacks m the United States ha\'e enough problems: infirmity and death from sickle cell conditiom should not he one of them. A special THA:\K-\'Ol' to all those members of B.S.A. \\-ho hakrd goods for the recent B.S.A. bakesale. Without ~ou it \\Ould not ha\e bern thr succt.''' that it was! And a great big thanks to the rnion l'Ulllpu' rommunit~. for \itlwut ~our support we would nut han hel'n a hit• to ha\ (' a llllH'h mort• 'lllfl'l'\ful hake,<tk than we did last time.

as n? ve .It _volume· 106, No. 7 The Union College Black Students Alliance· Newspaper, Wednesday, November 10, 1976 .. EDITORS VIEWPOINT Last Tuesday the people of the United States elected a new. President and Vice,.President to govern them. To many it was a tight race· until the end. Ford and Carter going into the election, each had a 50 9i chance of winning. But Jimmy Carter pulled it out, as he said he would. The questipn still remains in the minds of many individuals, \Can he actually succeed' in doing all of the things he promised the pe'ople he would?\ Yes, Mr. Carter, along with his running partner Walter M.ondale, have promised to work to strip away the secrecy in government, to expose the pressure of lobbyists, to eliminate waste, to release our civil servants from bureaucratic chaos, and to provide tough. management. Carter and Mondale want to see tha1 a Democratic administration works in harmony with Congr~ss to achieve the ch~nges that are rieeded'. such as: - 1. Tax .Reform: Moving toward a truly fair and simple tax system, with red:uced tax rates for the people. . . 2. Welfare Reform: Trying to establish a str~amlined:, simplified and fair welfare system with strong work incentives that promote family stability. 3. Health Care: Establishing a comprehensive national health program which will tnake adequate health care a right for people, be universal m scope and preserve the private relationship between doctor and patient. · 4. Energy: Trying to get a coherent energy policy, by incre~sing emphasis on coal production and increased research on renewable sources of energy, such as solar, wind, and geothermal. To provide the leadership necessary for an effective voluntary conservation program. • 5. Arms Coratrol: To reduce world dependence on weapons' and to act aggressively to limit and ultimately eliminate the threat of .nuclear destruction in all nations. 6. Foreign Policy: They plan to try to stop treating our allies as if they· were our adversaries, and make it clear that detente is a two-way street. To promote human rights abroad and to deal affirmatively with the social and economic problems of the developing world. .President Carter and Vice-President Mondale seem to be leaders for change, but can they really accomplish all that they plan to do in the next four years in the White House? Only time will tell. But, irt my own opinion, it's going to be a· long four Yy,ars for both men. I d~ hope that they accomplish what th~y have said they would or ·what they (have set out to do), because if they ·don't, it will he o1;1e step backwards as tar as . the Democratic party is concerned. And this weuld put them right alongside the Republicans. I ·sincerely hope that our new President can clean up our government and help the United States get back on its feet again. There will be a B.S.A. meeting this Thursday at Hockok House. Everyone who can, please attend. It is going to be quite important. Time - between 7:30-8:00 P.M. THANK• YOU An lnterest.ing Look At Sickle Cell In 1970 four United States black soldiers died while on maneu;vers. Surprising? No, not really, except the soldiers were not in Vietnam, Laos, or cambodia. They were at Fort Bliss, Texas. Their deaths resulted fr.om ignorance and neglect not from an over-zealous drill instructor but from the failure of the general public and the ~edical community to recognize a major health prob~m - sickle cell disease. With knowledge of the disease, -of its effects and with proper counseling, the deaths of those fcrur young men could have been lastingly prevented. •Sickle cell disease is . a disease ofthe blood that can cause grave injury and death. Hemoglobin, the fluid in our blood cells that makes them red, is the substance that takes oxygen from our lungs to the rest of our bodies. With exertion and muscle usage, hemoglobin uses oxygen and in most of us remains a fluid while returning to the lungs for more oxygeri. Sickle cell hemoglobin is .fluid when carrying oxygen, but when oxygen is absent the hemoglobin becomes solid changing the normally doughnut- shaped red blood celis into a sickle, or new-moon shape. The result is ·painful, damaging, and sometimes fatal. When the cells sickle they no longer pass freely through smaller , blooo vessels; thus, a \log jam\ occurs within the vessels. This causes pain and destruction of the cells resulting in anemia. In more severe instrances it causes tissue loss or even \necrosis\ - the loss of an entire organ. Should this \jamming\ occur extensively . throughout the body, death will result. Understanding the Disease Sickle cell disease is not contagious; it is inherited through the parents. While sickle cell disease can cause the damage mentioned above, it does not happen to ev.ery sufferer of \sickling.\ The majority of \sicklers\ have two sorts of hemoglobin: sickle cell and normal, with the type depending on the genes inherited from the parents. Half of one'.s hemoglobin is received from the mother and half from the father. Assuming both parents have normal hemoglobin then their offspring will have hemoglobin type AA. If one parent has \sickling\ hemoglobin and the other has normal hemoglobin the child will be a \sickler\ typed as AS. This child then has \sickle cell trait\ and is almost always lengthy obstructed blood flow . education along with massive after unusually strenuous testing programs can alleviate exercise, from the result of much of sickle cell's dangers. As extreme exposure to cold, or mentioned earlier, awareness that complications from other serious one has the disease prevents diseases. The four soldiers at problems. Unfortunately, one Fort Bliss had sickle cell trait, ··can live an entire lifetime and be not sickle cell disease. An unaware that he has sickle cell individual with sickle cell disease, trait. For instance, Indiana typed SS, had parents who both University tested 275 persons in a had sickle cell traits: AS + AS :: 6-month span and found that 112 SS. Such an individual will have of them needed to return to the anemia and attacks of pain and University for genetic counseling. fever. He may be A similar test conducted by the underdeveloped. He may die at a same institution at a foundry in young age. The disease first Indianapolis revealed 10 out of causes illness between six months 113 employees with sickle cell and five years of age. Sickle cell trait - all were totally unaware disease 1 s inherited of it. The point? Now these predominately by Blacks. It ts people can avoid situations believed to have come from which might bring on a crisis and Africa where· people with sickle have other family members tested cell . hempglobin had a natural and counseled. iwmunity to . malaria. At present there ai:e special Mediterranean anemia which · blood 'tests used to detect 'sickle affects Greeks and Italians ts cell disease but only one ·that ts similar to sickle cell, and is truly thorough. In recent years, a likewise a preventive against test has been devised and malaria. Sickle cell anemia is a improved upon by Dr. Robert genetic problem among Blacks M. Nalbandian, MD, that just as cystic fibrosis, hemophilia requires only a small drop of and leukemia are genetic blood from a· finger. Called the problems predominant in Whites. Sickledex, it shows sickling if it is - present; yet, to establish the While sickle cell disease is not specific type of sickle cell contagious, it also is not readily condition, whether full-disease or preventable or curable, although a trait, a test using blood drawn tt 1s treatable .. Onl)l the from the arm,, electro~horesis, is symptoms o{ si<,:kle cell disease , a mqst. Bestdes bemg more or sickle :.Cjn' aneihia, -;'(:an b~ i•t!ffirofigh', eleelro};noresis has the treated. Wh(:n the (!ells sickle and added advantage of being blood flow ceases, drugs are used cheaper than Sickledex and to ease pain and to alleviate equally efficient for primary dehydration and constriction of screening. The extensive the blood vessels. New, more equipment used by Indiana. immediate forms of treatment are University cost approximately being researched. At p.resent, the $1,000 .. To ~<!uip a ~mailer only form of prevention is testing commumty, chmc or. mobile lab for sickle cell trait in individuals. would cost a fraction of the It is estimated that there are 2 above. Cost can no longer h<! million people in the United cited as too prohibitive to mount States with sickle cell trait. If 2 an attack on sickle cell anemia. people with sickle cell trait The goals of such marry, Y4 will be normal and Y2 organizations as the Foundation will have sickle cell trait. Each for Research and Education m individual should know if they Sickle Cell Disease and the have inherited the sickle type 1 of Southeastern Wisconsin Sickle hemoglobin not only to make Cell Center should and can be reasoned decisions in family the viable goals of any planning but, also, to avoid community's clubs and conditions that might bring on a concerned organizations. They cnsts precipitated by high can conduct community altitudes and over-exertion. information progra.ms for What Should Be Done patients and the public. They can encourage health officials and legislators to provide increased funds for research and health services. 'They can initiate- and develop facilities for testing and counseling. ~vvvvwvvwvwwwwwwvwv~ ~ --- CONTENTS --- ~. ~ . . Page ~- ~ Editor\'s Viewpoint 1 ~ ~ · Focus ·on Sickle Cell 1 ~ ~ BLACK HISTORY 2 ~ · healthy. Sickle cell trait is usually harmless. But not always. It can be harmful, even fatal, if there is a severe reduction of oxygen like that occuring at high altitudes, from a compiicating anaesthetic; from severe lung disease, from At present, the most effective means of controlling sickle cell disease are improved communication and education, plus large-scale· testing programs. The average person has limited knowledge about sickle cell disease, its cause, its symptoms, its dangers and its treatment. Black communities need more in- depth information and counseling as does the general public. Less than half of the black population has ever heard of this disease. The economic, educational, social and psychological effects of sickle cell disease affect all of us. Mass Tragedies like the one that occurred at Fort Bliss are preventable. Alleviating the problem of sickle cell disease does not necessarily require money; however, it does require· effort, information, time and genuine concern. And work should begin now. The Blacks in the United States have enough problems; infirmity and death from sickle cell conditions should not be one of thern. ~ . ~ ~ Important Blacks In ~ ~ The News 2 ~ ;?;,> Notices 2 ~ ~ Sports 3 ~ ~ Creative Poetry 4 ~ ~ . (This week Feat~ring: ~ ~ Mr. Joseph Johnson & Abdoulai Bambi) ~ ~~AA~~~~A~~AA~~~~~A~~1 . -P• ••w.w:.•-•••• Zsu A special THANK- YOU to all those members of B.S.A. who baked goods for the recent B.S.A. bakesale. Without you it would not ha¥e been the suc~ess that it was! And a great big thanks to the llnion campus community, for without )'our support we would not have been able to have a much more successful bakesale than we did last time. ..

.Page 2 PERSf:KCTIVE · Novemb~t 10, 1976 - ' - . . ... Blaek Amerleans fit History · Narrative of tlie Life of Freded4lk I)ouglass This sel~ction is from the Great · Abolitionist's Autobiography and' Deals with his Early Life Why am I a slave? Why are can make, man can unmake. and mysterious thingS\;- with which woman; and a little t:xperienc¢ learn to write was suggested to me some people slaves, and others The appalling darkness faded my youthful understanding had. so0n derr_tonstrated;.. to . . iher by bein.g in Durgin and BaHey's' · masters? Was there ever a time away, and l was master of the struggled, but 'struggled in vain. I· satisfaction, Uiat ,'education- .and shipyard, and frequently seeing · . when this was not so? How did subject. There- were slaVt;s here,- now UnderStood what had been to slavery were incompatible with the sqip carpenter~, after hewing, . the relation commence? direct from Guinea; and there me a most perplexing difficulty- each other. and getting a piece of timber These were the perplexing were many who could say that to wit, the white man's power to From this time I was most ready fonise, write on the tirnber . questions which began now to their fathers and methe'rs were enslave the black man. lt was a narrowly watched .. lf t was in a the name of that part of the ship claim my thoughts, and to stolen from Africa -forced from grand achievement, and I prized it separate room any considerable for which it was intended. exercise the weak powers of my their homes, and compelled to highly. length of time, I was sure to be When a piece -of timber was · - mind, for I was still but a child, serve as slaves. Th·is, to me, was Theugh conscious of the suspected of having a book, a:rtd intended for the larboard side, it. and knew less than children of the knowledge; but it was a kind of difficulty of learning without a was at once called to give an would be marked thus - \L.\ · ··same age in the free states. As my knowledge which filled me with a teacher, I set out with high hope, account of myself. AH this, When a piece was for the questions concerning these things burning hatred of slavery, and a fixed purpose, at whatever however, was too late. The first starboard side forward, it would were only put to children a little increased rnY suffering, and left cost of trouble, to learn how to step had been taken. Mistress, in b.e ·marked thus - \S.F.\ For older, and little better informed me without the means of breaking read. The very decided manner tea!ihing me the alphabet, had larboard aft, it would be marked than myself, I was not rapid in away from my bondage. Yet it with which he spok:e, and strove given me the inch, and no thus -\L.A.\ For starboard .aft, reaching a solid footing. By some was know.Iedge qu,ite worth to impress his wife with .the evil precaution could prevent me from it weuld he marked thus - means I learned from these possessmg. consequences of giving me taking the ell. \S.A.\ l soQn learned the names inquiries, that \God up in the I could not have been more instruction, served to convince me The plan which 1 adopted, and of these letters, and for what they sky,\ made everybody; and that than seven or eight years old, that he was deeply sensible of the the one by which I· was most were intended when placed upon he made white people to be when 1 began to make this .subject truths he was uttering. It gave me successful, was that of making a piece of timber in the shipyard. masters and mistresses, and black my study. It was with me in the the best assurance that l might friends of all the little w.hite boys I immediately commenced people to be slaves. woods and fields; along the shore rely with the utmost confidence wlrom 1 met in the street. As copying them, and in a short ti'trte This did not satisfy me, nm of the river, and wherever my on the results which, he said, many of these as I could, I was able to make the four lette.rs lessen my interest in the subject. t boyish wanderings led me; and would flow from teaching rile to converted into teachers.. With named. was told, too, that God was good, although l was, at that time, quite read. t'heir kindly aid, obtained at After that, when I met with any . · and that He knew what was best ignorant of the existence of the What he most dreaded, that I different times and in different boy whom I knew could write, 'I for me, and best for everybody. free states, I distinctly remember most desired. What he most places, I finally succeeded in would tell him' I could write as This was less satisfactory than the being,. even then, most strongly loved, that I most hated. That learning to read. When l was sent well as he. The next word would first statement; because it came, impressed with the idea of being a which to him was a great evil, to on errands, I always took my be, \I don't believe you. Let me point blank, against all my free man some day. This cheering be carefully shunned, was to me a baok with me, and by doing one see you try it.\ I would then make notions of goodness. It was not assurance was an inborn dream of great goe>d, to be diligent-ly part of my errand quickly, I the letters which I had been so good to let old master cut the my human nature - a constant sought; and the arg)lment which found time to get a lesson -before fortunate as to learn, and ask him ·flesh off Esther, and make her cry menace to slavery - and one he so warmly urged, against my my return. I used also to carry to beat tha.t. ln this way i got a so. Besides, how did people know which all the powers of slavery learning to read, only served to bread with me, enough of which good many lessons in writing, . that God made black people to be were unable to silence or inspire me with a desire and was always in the house, and to which it is quite possible ·I should slaves? Did they go up in the sky extinguish. determination to learn. which I was always welcome; for 1 never have gotten in any other and learn it? or, did He come Very soon after I went to .live In learning to read, I owe was much better off in this regard way. down and tell them so? All was with Mr. and Mrs. Auld, she very almost as much to the bitter than many ot the poor white During this time, my copy- dark here. kindly commenced to teach me opposition of my master, as to the children in our neighborhood. book· was the board fence, brick It was some relief to my hard the A,B,C's. After l had learned kindly aid of my mistress. I This bread I used to bestow upon wall, and 'pavement; my pen and notions of the goodness of G@d, this, she assisted me in 1earning to acknowledge the benefit of both... the hungry little urchins, who, in ink was a lump of clialk With that, although he made white men spell words of three or four · My mistress was, as I have said, return, would give me that more these, . I learned mainly hoW to to be slaveholders, he did not letters. Just at this point of my a kind and tender-hearted valuable bread of knowledge.... write. I then commenced and make them to be bad slave- p1ogress, Mr. Auld found out woman; and in the simplicity of I was now about twelve years. continued copying th~ Italic~ on· holders, and that, in due time, he what was going on, and at once her souL she commenced, when I old, and the thought of being a Webster's Spelling Book,_until I would punish the bad slave- forbade Mrs. Auld to instruct me first went to live with her, to treat slave for life began to bear heavily could make them all witb.o~t holders; that he would, when they further, teling her, among other me as she supposed one human upon my heart. :Just about this looking on the book. _By this time, died, send them to the bad place,. things, that it was unlawful, as being ought to treat another... time, I got hold of a book entitled my little Master Thomas had where they would be \burnt up:\ well as unsafe, to teach a slave to Slavery proved as injurious to her _ 'Jhe, Columbian Orator. Every :gone·_t 9 · SPh()o!, .and learned how Nevertheless, I could not read. as it did to me... Under its optmrtunity I got, I used to read to write, and had written over a· reconcile the relation of slavery To use his own words, further, influence, the tender heart became this book. Among much of other number of copybooks. These had with my crude notion of he said, \If you. give a nigger an stone, and the lamblike dtsposi.: interesting matter, I found in it a been brought home., and shown to goodness. inch, he will take an ell. A nigger tion gave way to one of tigerlike dialogue between a master and his some of our near neighbors, and Then, too, I found that there should know nothing but to obey fierceness. slave. The slave was represented then laid aside. My mistress used were puzzling exceptions to this his master- to do as he is told to The first step in her downward as having .run away from his to go to class meeting at the Wilk theory of slavery on both sides, do. Learning would spoil the best course was in her ceasing to master three times. The dialogue Street meetinghouse· every and in the middle. I knew of .nigger in the world. Now,\ said instruct me. She now commenced represented the conversation Monday afternoon, and leave me blacks who were not slaves! l he, \if you teach that nigger how to practice her husband's which took place between them, tQ take care of the house. When knew of whites who were not to read, there would be no precepts. She finally became even when the slave was retaken the left thus, 1 used to spend the time slaveholders; and l knew of keeping him. It would forever more violent in heF opposition third time. in writing in the spaces left in persons who were ne~rly white, ,unfit him to be a slave. He would than her husband himself. She In this dialogue, the whole Master Thomas' copy-book, who were slaves. Color, therefore, at once become unmanageable, was not satisfied with simply argument in behalf of slavery was copying what be had written. 1 · was a very unsatisfactory basis for and of no value to his master. As doing as Well as he had brought forward by the master, continued to ·dO this until 1 could slavery. to himself, it could do him no commanded; she seemed anxious. all of which was disposed of by write a hand very similar to that Once, however, engaged in the good, but a great deal of harm. It to do better. Nothing seemed to the sla-ve. The slave was made to . of Master Thomas. · inquiry, 1 was not very long in would make him discontented make her more angry_ than to see say some very smart as well as Thus, after a long, tedious finding out the true solution of and unhappy.\ me with a newspaper. She seemed impressive things in· reply to hts effort for yeC,\r:,<;, I final·ly ·. · the matter. It was not color, but These words sank deep into my to think that here lay the danger. master - tnmgs wmcn had the succeeded m learning · ho.~ 'to· crime, not God, but man, that heart, stirred up sentiments within I have had her rush at me with a desired though unexpected effect; write. afforded the true explanation of that lay slumbering, and called face made all up of fury, and for the conversation resulted in the existence of slavery; nor was I into existence an entirely new snatch from me a newspaper, in a the voluntary emancipation of the. long in finding out another train of thoug~t. It was~ ~ew and manner t~at fully revealed her sl~ve o~ the part of the maste~ ... :. . important truth, viz.: what m&n special.revelatwn, explaming dark apprehensiOn. She was an apt The tdea as to how l mtglit __ .. ~~W\;;;;j~W~ .IMPORT ANT BLACKS IN THE NEWS Barbara J. Harris, formerly director of artist relations and special markets for Atlantic Records, was appointed di- rector of artist relations for ABC Records' East Coast op- erations. Randolph W. Bromery, chancellor of the University of Massachusetts at Amherst, was elected to the board of directors of Singer Co. · William H. Andrews moved ':1-P from vice president-opera- tions of the Cuyahoga County Hospital System in Cleveland, Ohio, to senior vice president. Until 1972, Andrews had served as direc- tor of Cleveland's Metropoli- tan General Hospital. Andrew F. Brimmer, former member of the Federal Re- serve's Board of Governors, was elected a director of BankAmerjca and its princi- pal subsidiary. Bank of America. Brimmer, who re- cently was .Thomas Henry Carrol Visiting Professor at the Harvard Graduate School. of Business, now heads his own financial consulting firm in Washington, D.C. Editor: Anita Cunnin.gham !!!IMPORTANT NOTICES!!! Sick ·and Shut-in: Ms. Donna Hawkins is still recuperating at· Ellis Hospital. So if there is anyone who would like to go up and visit her, the visiting times are from I to 4 p.in., and 5 to 8 p.m. Mr. Joe Johnson was sick with a mild touch of the flu, but l was last informed that he was released on Sunday. Anyone interested in visiting him can go to Webster house on Union Street. PRAYER OF THE DAY 0 God, you call us into fellowship with each other and into service in your church. Be with us in times of difficult deci:.ions and grant us the wisdom of your Spirit; through your Son, Jesus Christ our Lord. Amen. Novei - Of

Novem~e.- 10, 1916 . . r~Rstiicrivii: -~ -- - . .._., . .... y (VIEWS AND HIGHLIGHTS) Black Pla,yers on Football Teams Mr~ Robert Ric.hardson Offensive Guard, JV & Varsity Mr. Keviil Moore, Offensive Player for JV and Varsity T·he Big_ D. and Coach Mr. Clinton Williams, Defensi-ve Pla~er for JV and Varsity J.V. Offensiv,e Coach Mr. Charley Weeks Mr. Marc Nazon Defensive Player, Varsity After Tony Dorsett went 241 yards against Syracuse he became the all-time colleg~wshing leader alild is well on his way to winning the Heisman trophy. Tony DorscH has truly made the number he wears (33) mean something. Tony is truly an all-around ·athlete: and I know that he wiU continue to get better and keep on amazing the fa11s. I hope he wins the Heisman, he sure does deserve it. George Benson 13uilarist George Benson has been considered a premier jazz-rock artist_.for more than a decade. Not surprisingly, Benson's achievements have won him the Playboy All-Star Poll, a Grammy nomination and th'li long-standing support of a loyal following. His first Warnef's album, \Breezin' \ released in 1976, features him as a vocalist on the hil single \Thl$ Masquerade.\ The1..P has gone gold and by the time you read this may have turned platinum. See him at the Palace, November 19 before it is too late! Tickets on sale Now at these outlets: CAMPUS CONTACT ·OFFICE JUST A SONG ROLLING RECORDS university concert board funded by student association Mr. David Wilson, Offensive Player for JV & Varsity J. V. FOOTBALL ENDS SEASON EARLY! Well, it looks as though the J.V. team has finished up for the season and sooner than they expected. They were scheduled to play Middlebury's J. V. team this past week -but Cahill cancelled the game because of the injuries they had accumulated on the J. V. squad. The saud already had a lot of players playing positions that they hadn't gone out for, and possibly if they had played Middlebury, each player's job would have been a lot more hard. So, instead of getting themselves in that situation, they didn't play. J.V. closed out the season With a 0-3 record. But, the team is young and next year all of the players will be a lot better. So, get in shape guys and we'll see you next year. Anyone Interested In FREE Subscriptions For Perspective Newspaper. Contact the editor: A. Cunningham Box No. 1157 or Call 370-6644

November 10, 1'76 lu· History Douglass - . -..: .. the Great ' and ' '· Life th which ing had n vain. I been to to was ~ prized it of the a hope, how to manner strove the evH me me l\e of the gave me I might said, me to that I e most d. That evil, to to me a iligent1y which my to and owe bitter to the I both ... said, of when I to treat human ... s to her der its became igerlike to even If. She simply had med to to see seemed a and in a ed her apt woman; and a little -experience Jearn to write was suggested to me soon demonstrated, to her by being in Durgin and BaHey's satisfaction, that. education: am~ shipyard, and frequently seeing slavery were incompatible with the ship carpenters, 'after hewing, each other. and getting a piece of timber From this time 1 was most ready for use, write on the timber narrowly watched. lf I was in a the name of that part of the ship · · separate room any considerable for which it was intended. length of time, I was sure to be When a piece -of timber was suspected of ha,ving a book, and intended for the larboard side,. it W<ts at once ca.IJed to .give an would be marked thus -~- .. L\ account of myself. A![i this, When a piece was for the however, was too late. The first starboard side forward, it would step had been t-aken. Mistress, in be marked thus - \S.F.\ For teaching me the alphabet, had l~rboard aft, it would be marked · given me the inch, and no thus ~ ''L.A.\ For starboard aft, precaution could prevent me froin it would be marked thus ~ taking the ell. .. S.A.\ I soon learned the names The plan which I adopted,. !ind of these letters, and 'for wha.t they the one by which I was most were intended when placed upon successful, was that of makiQg a piece of timber in the shipyard. friends of all the little white boys I immed·iately commenced wlrorn I met in the street. As copying them, and in a short time many of these as I could, I was able to mak€ the four letters converted into teachers. With named. their kindly aid, obtained at After that, when I met with any different times and in different boy whom I knew could write, I places, I finally succeeded in would tell him· I could write as learning to read. When I was sent well as he. The next word would on errands, I always took my be, \l don't believe you. Let me book with me, and by doing one see you try it.\ I would then make part of my errand quickly, I the letters which I had been so found time to get a lesson before fort-unate as to learn, and ask him my return, I used also to carry to beat that. In this way I got a bread with me, enough of which good many lessons in writing, was always in the house, and to which it is quite possible I should . which I was always welcome; for I never have gotten in any other was much better off in this regard way. than many ot the poor white During this time, my copy- children in out neighborhood. book- was the board fence, brick This bread I used to bestow upon wall, and pavement; my pen and _ the hungry little urchins, who, in ink was a Iump of chalk. With return, would give me that more these, .I learned mainly how to Valuable bread of knowledge.... write. I then commenced and I was now about twelve years continued copying the Italic§ Gn old, and the thought of being a Webster's Speiling Book,_ until I slave for life began to bear heavily could ~nake them all without upon my heart. Just about this looking on the book. By this tirne, time, I got hold of a book entitled my little Master Thomas had . The Columbian Orator. Every - 15one to school·, and learned how opportunity I got, I used to read to write, and had written over a this book. Among much of other number of copybooks. These had interesting matter, I found in it a been brought home, and showrt to dialogue between a master and his some of our near neighbors, and slave. The slave was represented then laid aside. My mistress used as having run away from his to go to class meeting at the Wilk master three times. The dialogue Street meetinghouse every represented the conversation Monday afternoon, and leave me which took place between them, to take care of the house. When when the slave was retaken the left thus, I used to spend the time third time. in writing in the spaces left in In this dialogue, the whole Master Thomas' copy..:book, argument in behalf of slavery was copying what he had written. I · brought forward by the master, continued to do this until l could all of which was disposed of by write a hand very similar to that the slave. The slave was made to of Master Thomas. · say some very smart ae well as Thus, after a long, tedious impressive things in· reply to his effort . for years, I finally master - thmgs wmch llad the succeeded in lea:rning ho.~ to desired though unexpected effect; write. for the conversation resulted in the voluntary emancipation of the slave on the part of the master .... The idea as to how I might !!!IMPORTANT NOTICES!!! iversity of · William H. Andrews moved up from vice president-opera- tions of the Cuyahoga County Hospital System in Cleveland, Ohio, to senior vice president. Until 1972, Andrews had served as direc- tor of Cleveland's Metropoli- tan General Hospital. Sick and Shut-in: Ms. Donna Hawkins is still recuperating at Ellis Hospital. So if there is anyone who would like to go up and visit her, the visiting times are from I to 4 p.m., and 5 to 8 p.m. Mr. Joe Johnson was sick with a mild touch of the flu, but I was last informed that he was released on Sunday. Anyone interested in visiting him can go to Webster house on Union Street. PRAYER OF THE DAY 0 God, you call us into fellowship with each other and into service in your church. Be with us in times of difficult dcci;ions and grant us the wisdom of your Spirit; through your Son, Jesus Christ our Lord. Amen. November 10, 1976 s Po R r (VI-EWS AN,D HIGH·.LIGH'1 Five Black Players on Football T Mr: Robert Richardson Offensive Guard, JV & Varsity Mr. Kevin Moore, Offensive Player for JV and Varsity The Big D. Mr. Clinton Williams, Defensive Pla~er for JV and Varsity Mr. Marc Nazon Defensive Player, Varsity After Tony Dorsett went 241 yards against Syracuse he became the all-time colleg~hing leader a=Md is well on his way to winning the Heisman trophy. Tony Dorset-t has truly made the number he wears (33) mean somethi11g. T onv is truly an all-around ·athlete. and l know that he wil~ continue to get better and keep .on amating the fans. I hope he wms the Heisman, he sure does deserve it. George Benson Gtlilarisl George Benson has been considered -a premier jazz-rock artist'tor more than a decade. Not surprisingly, Benson's achievements have won him the Playbo-y All-Star Poll, a Grammynomination and thE! long-standing support of a loyal following. His fir.stWarner's album, \Breezin' \ in 1976, features him as a vocalist on the hit single \This Masquerade.\ The'l..P has gone gold and by the lime you read tflis may have turned platinum. See him at the Palace, November 19 before it is too late! Tickets on sale Now at these outlets: CAMPUS CONTACT ·OFFICE JUST A SONG ROLLING RECORDS universily conceri board funded by student association Well, it looks a: J.V. team has finish season and soone expected. They were sched Middlebury's J.V. t week -but Cahill • game because of thf had accumulated squad. The saud aln of players playing 1 they hadn't gone A: s For

November 10, 1976 ,•- ............ _,. ,_.., .... -,..' Perspe~iive's Creative Po~try ·Cot'·her This issue. is proud·to.pre:s~Dt soute .of the ereatiVe ~orks of Mr. Joseph J. Johnson and r Mr. Abdoulai Ba~nba Through your eyes a representative exits In a light nightfall, Notice. beauty, Black images wi.ldly moving against any solid background, Flexibility allows for incorporation of anything in its way to be touched by the results. In a light nightfall, Mellow moods, Love, Felt in touches,. Needs not been seen, Black mother's caring for her own, Black women caring for her man, In a light night, J ll.~before tbe dark, · Seeing the building our nation, represented in your eyes, !--ooks of power taken from past pain, Wanting to hold onto blackness as a unit, M.an; ·! · · Child, Personal being. In a light night fall, Closing of the day, Opening of Your eyes, Looking to conquer the darkness, In wait, By Joe Johnson . i ' •·' ' t ·:- , \ ·~ '. ' . . ..... ~lt•····j~ ~ .. ···'· •f Desire Oh, Darkest deep, Black demons asleep, Please a waken. Cast a spell on· this black sheep, As her shepherd, I, speak, For pain and agony, to keep ....... Oh, Deepest darkest demons asleep, Please, cast this spell so I can sleep, I, stay awake and cry and weep, Her body caused me not to sleep, She laughs, Give her my sorrow make her weep, For pain and agony she's to keep .... Oh, blackest ebony that I can find, Oh, horrible hatred, Great beings sublime, Cast a spell you can repeat, For pain and agony, she is to keep, Fo,r pain and agony, she is to keep. By Joe Johnson Misconception of a misleading fortune A spider spun his lusty web, The web he spun throughout the day, It glowed a lovely red, Into the trap flew several bees, Entangled, not quite dead, Perched upon the highest arc, The spider seemed quite pleased, that. every bug became entangled. While, • Rustling noise and rapping sounds ju~t made him fall a~lcep. For the spider knew in time, He'd settle do\.vn to feast. By Joe Johnson America You ask me how I see you? You are, America, A self-made world. -· ---· -·so liberal ' Tiger.ess Tigeress, Like your style, your presence sends thoughts into the wildnes.s of space, movements limbs, showing no traces, You are passionate Yankee liberalism. where have you been, repre~enting a life time search. Watching, So frightening. Yet so true Your sons brimming full with Freudian emphasis Sleep unseen tenderness, overwhelming, Welco~e Yankee imperialism from the fields, Laden with muddy glory. a levely princess, Makes you, Queen in tny jungle, Close to you·, The Einsteinian cult America ... ! Hence Watergate Hence Vietnam Hence Yankee Crusades Hence your disillusioned sons, burdened, With centuries of growing frustration threaten hollowly, As you sow ..... ...... An American Hamburger Here ... Here ... and there. ,, Just far enough away, Not, to get scratched, Tigeress, Love your style, · .:.Running m¥-~il~~Running'me wild, Running ine wild like the thick grass, hold me back, Tigeress perch for now, on Olympis, Yet young America is so hauntingly beautiful. a GODDESS sensation, Glowing as your eyes tell me stories, Enough to say_ you are important. By Abdoulai' Bamba Finale It's been nice, I can't say it Wasn't fun, Together with you, My first love, Holding hands, Kissing, Reminiscing, You are wonderful, Like the warmth of the sun, On the blackest winter ·day, Filling the ground with beauty, Giving rise to the spring. My dear, It, couldn't last, Spring turns to fall, Things are now in the past, I'll hold these memories, Forever, Forever, Forever. By Joe Johnson Food For Pride My heart pounds; As memory recollects, The sweet gathering Under the aging baobab, The tom-tom's mournful beat, Under the watchful eyes Of an admiring moonshine, Tending servants That kept up the spirit. Then the crowd would respond With released pent-up passion, Passionate slaves of the Sound-god. Feet would pound Accompanying the rhythmic beat Of a multituded hearts; The message would spread From heart to heart In that strange way, That only we have. By Abdoulai Bamba By Joe Johnson Substitute means Scholar, Bring me knowledge, I, can't acknowledge, Intelligent, wisdom has past me by, Even giving college a try. Intellectual gentlemen gather around, Curiosity, Judgment, Please sit down, Absurdity!, Enter a circus, see a clown. Insanity, Fool, Overestimated no doubt, Madmen just don't wonder about, Ignoramus can't you see, That you've all underestimated me. Interpretation, interpreter, show these gentlemen my intentions, Stammering on my refreshments, Alcohol, Smoke; Please don't die, You see, You have not given college a try. By Joe Johnson Fallacy of a mountain climber We walked along the mountain's edge, Tedious were my steps, Involved within myself forgetting all the rest, I, couldn't let the challenge torment my gallant stride, The call to me came from everyone \come back you'll surely die.\ Their words meant nothing, Escape avoid a slip, !, Tumbled down the mountain side, And, Only split my lip. By Joe Johnson St1 Muchh on this 1: .complain heari11g contributi assume it about the found in activity tt Let me here - tl .by relativ( one of th~ bodies yo1 my Fresh und'oubtec more stu~ to get· in but if an: be critici contributi undoubtec Hete a and figUJ Union's s· In just tl ~~fli}.JJle:.rr li_as gone program11 numbers second IJ Voice w detracted Concord) signed UJ assign. T formed a Tuesday Speaker's last year. Russell E have bee clubs sue; as well

' IJ Volume 106, No. 8 November 17, 1976 • Nichols on Honors by DAVID GOSS One of the faculty members at Union College who has received a Mellon Grant which he is ·using thi$ fall term is Bvron Nichols, associate professor. of political science. But what is a Mellon Grant? Well, two years ago the College applied to the Andrew W. Mellon Foundation for a grant which would provide funds for faculty members for a purpose which falls under one of nine ·' categories delineated in the October I, 1976 issue of the Campus Chronicle. Basically, these categories concern the furthering of academic interests. Prof Nichals: Union offers nothing for our brightest, most able students when. considered as a group. · Byron Nichols' Mellon Grant project is to study the feasibility of setting up an \honors program\ at Union, to evaluat~;~ the education Union affo~ds its·' brightest students, and to determine the degree to which adequate stimulation is already .provided for students here. Presently, Union allocates money Union See<ks A.rt Historian by DANNY WOJNILOWER Due to incre~tsed student this search .will be 'Provost demand, Union College is about Willard Enteman and Dean of to begin a nation-wide search for Faculty Paula Brownlee. As Dean an art historian. Tile college's Brownlee feels; \tpe search will need to fill thill import~pt result ·i!l the hiring of none other position is ~tnd will be ·~givet!-l:O.p- -·.than the best qualified~ person.\ priority out of f.unds at my Little Action disposal;' stated President Thomas Bonner in his September address to the Union faculty. These \funds which are coming from th~ President's own discretionary fund, allow the college to keep from being held down by budgetary· plans made far in· advance. After reading the report In the past, there has been much discussion and little action . and commitment to the arts. The hiring of an art historian has been a continuing recommendation of thl!! arts department and is something that art department chairman Hugh Allen Wilson terms \very important.\ Now, as President Bonner proudly states, \We are doing it.\ Barring no problems, art history will be seen at Union in the fall term· of 1977. . One of rhe delays that has arisen in Union's search has been the nack from other departments. President Bonner feels that \the college must realize that this h• decision was not based on wOFkload or money but rather that this. specific need is above and beyond all others at this time.\ Primary Importance The reason th\!t an art historian is of primary importance is that the 1980's will be bringing an increase in competition among students and colleges and Union will need to remain competitive while stiH maintaining its advantage of having a compre- hensive curriculum. President Bonner believes that \this art historia~ search is only the beginning of a long range plan to improve the arts department so that Union will be well-rounded in all fields.\ · Hopefully the expansion of the arts program will result in more widespread interest among Union students. Then we may be able to reach the ultimate goal which, in Dean Brownlee's terms, is \every Union student will gain some exposure to the arts in their four years here, even if it is only for the aesthetic sense.\ presented by Dr. Harold Taylor, chairman of the consulting committee, the question arose of what to. do with the report? The report, which was published· in Concordy this fall, suggested that Union needed help iti the Arts Department. Coupled with the already-known facts that the Arts Department here at Union has poor facilities and that it has always. been late in developing, the administration decided to begin their strengthening of the arts by recruiting an art historian, This search will begin as soon as the Educational Policy Committee -(EPC) properly Baker Lecture Tontorrow defines the position and decides what type of contract the art historian will be given. Heading The second annual Walter C. Baker Lecture in Arts and Civilization will be delivered by Frederick D. :\Jichols Langhorne Profeysor of Architecture at the University of Virginia, at 8:30 p.m. Thursday night in Memorial Chapel. Professor :\ichob v.ill speak on the int1ucnce of Thomas Jefferson on American Architectu.re. Nichols, a graduate of Yale University, has been the Cary D. Langhorne Professor at the University of Virginia since 1967 and chairman of the University's division of architectural history since 1972. He is a member of both the Monticello Restoration Commission and the Virginia Historic Landmarks Commission. Dr. .Nichols is one of the nation·s leading experts in the area ·of ea.rly· American architecture, having authored a number of books on the subject. Among his works are \Thomas Jefferso'n's Architectural Drawings\ (1959), \Monticello\\ (1967), and '\Early Architect~re in Georgia\ for which he was awarded the Hitchcock Medal in 1957. Mrs. Loi~ W. Baker, a life trustee of l:nion College, established tht: hxturt::.hip in 1975 in mcmor} of her late hu>band, Walter C. Baker. Mrs. Baker, a graduate of Vassar College. was elected a trustee in 1972. Mr. Baker graduated from Union in the class oft 9 15 and was a member of the College'~ Board of Trustees for nearly forty years, from 1932 until his death in· 1971. He served as Chairman of the Board for twenty-two years, from 1941 to 1963. A native of Oneida, N.Y., Mr. Baker joined the Guaranty Trust Co. of New York soon after his graduation from Continued on Page 16 for and worries most about programs for students with ,particular interests in areas such as athletics, .the arts, politics, and so on. Why then is there no program designed to provide special courses for the students who stand at the upper end of the academic spectrum'? This is precisely the question with which Professor Nichols is concerned. The idea for this project came from two main sources. First of all, Phi Beta Kappa, of which Nichols has been Cha.pter Secretary for the past five years, has shown increasing concern with the quality of education for students at Union. A second source of information was provided by students and faculty who suggested to Professor Nichols that an honors program should be investigated. In his recently completed 20 page Memorandum for All Department Chairpersons with regard to the Mellon Grant Project; Honors Pr.ogram study, Dr. Nichols states, \In terms of formal academic programs and curricular opportunities, · Union offers nothing for our brightest, most aole students when considered as a group. Stunningly, Nichols considers the present atmosphere· among students at Union to be non- intellectual if not anti~intellectual. Several students have indicated that they feel inhibitee:i when considering speaking out during class or becoming involved in intellectual discussions because they will be accused of brown- nosing. In this case, they are being shut off by their own peers, the other students in the class. How has Byron Nichols proceeded with his quest for an honors program at Union? He has taken six basic steps. First, he has written to the chief academic officers of fifty or sixty leading institutions which compare academically with Union. They are basically liberal arts institutions: Hamilton, Wesleyan, Carleton, Pomona, and similar schools. Secondly, he has visited other campuses to talk with their faculty and students. Recently, Professor Nichols returned from Davidson College in North Carolina. and he is planning to travel to Bowdoin in the near future. Thirdly, he has written to seven m f;!ight experts in the field of higher education to obtain their advice. What about students at Union? They have valuable opinions. too. Ntchols certainly believes this because he has consulted with students already and is planning future meetings to obtain more suggestions. Another step has involved Nichols' analysis of curricular behavior of students who are members of Phi Beta Kappa and Tau Beta Pi, the honor society for engineers. The intellectual breadth of the majority of students who have become members of both organizations is limited. They have taken a very large percentage of their courses in their major field and in their own division. Finally, the step which Dr. Nichols reserved until he collected all of his data is a consultation with administrators of the college. He has deliberately waited to go to the faculty until he could provide them with all the information and ideas. he has been accumulating. Just this past week he sent his Memorandum to department chairpersons concerning this project. Out of the hundred students representing the brightest and most able students at Union to whom Nichols has written seeking their consultation and assistance, approximately one-third have responded. Most of them said that the great majority of courses they took at Union were not challenging to them personally. One of these students made the comment that he has majored in pneumonic devices while at Union. The upperclassmen who talked with Nichols found that the single best part of their education was the opportunity for independent work and research provided by their major. On the other hand, sophomores found Continued on Page 14 WALTER C . . BAKER LECTURESHIP IN ARTS AND CIVILIZATION

' j I! I' I i ' i 'i ! 1 I' , I :I -: I i! '' I:: Jl Volume 106, No. 8 November 17, 1976 • Nichols on Honors by DAVID (;OSS One of tht: tacultv nH.:mhcrs at Union College \o\bo hm rec..:iv.ed a Mellon (jrant \'hich J;Je 1~ using this tall t~:rm i:. H>Ton :\ ichols. associate prok>>lH of political scienc..:. But V'\.hat 1' a :vtcllon Grant'! WdL t\'o years ago the College applit:d to the Andrew W. Mellon l·oumlation tor a grant which would pro\ 1dc I urllb lor facul•ty mcrnhen, l•>r a purpose which falls under one of nine categoric::. dclmeated m the October I. 1976 is:.ue of the Campus Chronicle. Basically, th..:se categoric> concern the furthering ol academic interest>. Prof Nichols: Union offers nothing for our brightest, most able students when considered as a group. Byron :\ichoh' Mt:lhm Grant project is to study the kasibility ol setting up an \honors program\ at l·nion. to evaluate the education l n1on allords 1ts brightest >tudents, and to determine the degret: to which adquate stimulation i::. already provided for student> here. Pn.:>ently. Umon allocates money Union Seeks Art Historian by DANNY WOJNILOWER Due to increased student demand, Union College is about to begin a nation-wide search for an art historian. The college's need to fill this important position is and will be \given top priority out of funds at my disposal,\ stated President thomas Bonner in his September address to the Union faculty. fhese \funds.\ which are coming from the\ President's own discretionary fund, allow the college to keep from being held down by budgetary plans made far in advance. After reading the report presented by Dr. Harold Taylor, chairman of the consulting committee, the question arose of what to do with the report? The report, which was published in Concordy this fall, suggested that Union needed help in the Arts Department. Coupled with the already-known facts that the Arts Department here at Union has poor facilities and that it has always been late in developing, the administration decided to begin their strengthening of the arts by recruiting an art historian. This search will begin as soon as the Educational Policy Committee (EPC) properly defines the position and decides what type of contract the art historian will he given. Heading II- INDEX Forum Actions PAG CORR Library Budgeting Culture Brownlee Interview Finals Schedule Editorials. Ub~ris:n. S~ltrt~'l Cmlentiar . ,-:,: -~ - -· .•:- •. :- __ ,. c.' this search will be 'Provost Willard Enteman and Dean of Faculty Paula Brownlee. As Dean Brownlee feels, \the search will result in the hiring of none other than the best qualified person.\ Little Action In the past. there has been much discussion and little action and commitment to the arts. The hiring of an art historian has been a continuing recommendation of the arts department and is something that art department chairman Hugh Allen Wilson terms \very important.\ Now, as President Bonner proudly states, \'We are doing it.\ Barring no problems. art history will be seen at Union in the fall term of 1977. One of the delays that has arisen in Union's search has been the flack from other departments. President Bonner feels that \the college must realize that this decision was not based on •· workload or money but rather that this specific need is above and bevond all others at this time.\ · Primary Importance The reason that an art historian is of primary importance is that the 19HO's will he bringing an increast> in competition among stucknts and colleges and Union will need to remain competitive while still maintaining its advantage of having a compre- hensive curriculum. President Bonner believes that \this art historian search is only the beginning of a long range plan to improve the arts department so that Union wiH be well-rounded in all fields.\ Hopefully the expansion of the arts program will result in more widespread interest among Union students. Then we may be able to reach the ultimate goal which, in Dean Brownlee's terms, is \every Union student will gain some exposure to the arts in their four years here, even if it is only for the aesthetic sense.\ Baker Lecture Ton1orrow I he :.econd annual \\'alter C. Haker Lecture in Art:. and Civilitation will be delivered b\ hederick D. :'\ ichob. !.a nghorn~ l'roks~nr lll Architt:cture at the: l:ni\t:nit,::. ol \'1rgima. at X:JO p.m. I hur~da:- night in :v1t:nHHial Chapel. Profe~>or \ H:hob \I ill ~peak on the inl1~1ent:t.' nf I huma:. Jdfer~on on Amer11.:an Architet:ture. :\ichob. a graduate of Yak linivenit,::.. ha:-. been tht: Car) D. Langhorne Prok,,or at the Univcnit) of Virginia ~ince 1967 and chairman of the Lni\er,it\ ·~ division of architectural histl;f\ since 1972. He i> a member t;f both the Monticello Restoration Commission and the Virginia Historic Landmarks Commission. Dr. Nichols is one of the nation's leading experts in the area of early American architecture, having authored a number of booh on the subject. Among his works are ... I homa~ J e t r l' r, o'n . ' :\ r 'h It l' l'l u r a I Drav. ing,·· (1':159). \'Monticdlo\ (1':167), and \Earl ,\n:hitectur.: in (ieorgia.. tor \d11ch he \\a' a\\ardt:d the HnchL:<lck \1cual in 1':157. :Vtr,. Lu1' W. Ba J...er. a II fe trmtec tll l · mun (' ol kgr.:. c'tabli,hed the kcture-.hip in 1~7~ in rm:mtHy \ll hc1 late hu-.hand. Walter C. Baker. :v1rs. Bal-..er, a graduate ot \a..,..,ar College. \\a' elected a trw,tce in IY72. Mr. Bak~:r graduated lrom Union in the cia::.' otl915and \\a' a member of the College's Board of Tru~tees lor ncar!\ fort\ \ear>. from 1932 until hi~ death ·i~ 1971. He served as Chairman of the Board for twer~ty-two years. Jrom 1':141 to 1963. A nati\e of Oneida. N.Y., Mr. Baker joined the Guaranty Trust Co. ol \e\\ York soon after his graduatiOn !rom Continued on Page 16 tor and v.orne~ mnst ahout program'> lor ~tud.:nt> with particular mh:rests in area~ such a~ athlt:tics. the art,, politics. and ~o on. Why then i~ thert: no program designed to prO\ ide special cours.:s lor tht.: studenh who stand at tht: upper end of tht: at:adem1c spectrum'! I hi~ 1s precisely the lJU<:~tion \'ith \d1ich Professor :\ ichob i:. concerned. I he idea lor thi> projet:t ~:ame Jrom two main ~ourccs. hr>t ol all. Phi Beta Kappa. of which :\ichols ha~ been Chapter Secretary tor the past five years. has sho\,:n incrca~ing concern with the quality ol education for students at timon. A s~:cond source ot information wa~ provided hy students and facult~ who >uggestcd to Professor :\ichols that an honors program should be ime~t1gatcd. In his recently completed 20 page Memorandum for All Department Chairpersons with regard to the Mellon Grant Project Honors Program study. Dr. :\oiichols states. \In terms of formal academic programs and curricular opportunities. Union oilers nothing for our brightest. most a hie >t udcnts when com1dered as a group. Stunningly, \1chob consider~ the pre>ent atmosphere among studenb at limon to he non- mtellectual il not aHti-intellectual. Se\cral student'> have indicated that they lt:cl inhihited when considering speaking out during class or becoming involved in intellectual discussions because they will he accust:d of brown- nosing. In this case, they are being shut off by their own peers. the other students in the class. How has Byron Nichols proceeded with his 4uest for an honors program at Union'? He has taken six basic steps. First. he has written to the chief academic officers of fifty or sixty leading institutions which compare academically with Union. They are basically liberal arts institutions: Hamilton. Wesleyan. Carleton. Pomona. and similar schools. Secondly. he has visited other campuses to talk with their faculty and students. Recently, Professor \ichol, rdurned from Davidson Collegt: m :\\orth Carolina. and he i:. planning to travel to Bo\'doin in the ncar future. I hirdly, he ha~ \\ rittcn to se\en or e1ght expert~ m the field of h1gher education to ohta1n their ad\ ice. What about ~tudent~ at l 'nwn·' i hey hme \aluahle llrinions. too. :\1chols ccrtaml~ helle\es iht' because he has comulted \\ith students already and i> planning future meetings to obtain more suggestions. Another stcr has i D\ olved \ iehols' analysis of currinllar behav10r ot '>tudcnts who are memh~:rs of Phi Heta Kappa and I au Heta Pi. the honor soc1ety tor engine.:rs. I he intelkctual breadth of the majmity ot students who have become m.:m hers o t hot h organi;ations IS limited. I hey ha\e taken a \ery large percentage of their courses in their major f1eld and in their own division. hnally, the step which Dr. ~ichob reserved until he collected all of his data ~~ a consultation with administrators o! the college. He ha:-. deliherately waited to go to the faculty untll he could pnmde them with all the information and idea' he ha:-. been accumulating. Just thi' past l'.eek he >ent h1s !\'lemorandum to department cha!rpt:r>ons concerning thi;. proJect. Out ol the hundred studcnb rcpre::.enting the hnghtest and most ah!e :-.tudents at l'nion to whom :\1chols has \'rittcn seel-..ing their consultation and assistance. approximately one-th1rd have responded. Most of them said that the great majority of courses they took at Union were not challenging to them personally. One of these students made the comment that he has majored in pneumonic devices while at Union. The upperclassmen who talked with Nichols found that the single best part of their education was the opportunity for independent work and research provided by the1r maJor. On the other hand, sophomores found Continued on Page 14 WALTER C. 'BAKER LECTURESHIP IN ARTS AND CIVILIZATI0!\1

Page2 CONCORDIENS/S, Wednesday, Nov. 17, 1976 Conduct Ombudsmen Work Mary Mastrianni, Chairman Ombudsman Committee. of the Conduct by DAVID MOSKOWITZ. The Conduct Ombudsmen Committee (C'OC). established by the College Senate last fall, has been re-formed for the '76-'77 year and is ready to serve as enforcer of the College's academic code. The academic code states that all residents of the College community are to respect and be aware of the rights of others, regar.dless of race. creed. sex, age, or position, as well as being academtcally honest and open. The COC has been given · responsibility to act m two separate areas: as a committee with jurisdiction over stuclent conduct and behavior, and as a central agency for gathering student grievances and then proceeding towards their resolution. If any student has a grievance and believes his or her rights have been violated, the process of resolution begins with an offic~al complaint to the COC. Forms for registering such complaints will Forum Acts on Tax, Club Hockey The Student Forum at its meeting on November 11 ¥oted not to sanction or fund a club hqckey team. The proposal had been brought by players who had failed to make the Varsity hockey team and wanted to play on a level slightly more competitive than provided by the intramural program. The proposal was denied when President Jim Trump pointed out that there is a NCAA rule prohibiting the existence of a club sport at a school where there is a varsity team in the same sport. debated dealt with the status of elected representatives who leave campus for a term (terms abroad, etc.). The issue in question was whether or not those representatives had to give up their seats on the Forum. There is a clause in the by laws saying Representatives must remain in residence at Union all three terms. There was a very heated discussion on this matter with the final resolutio~ being a tabling of the entire question until all members of the Forum could voice their opmwns (three members wer.e absent). The final vote will be taken at the next meeting, Nov. 17 at 7 pm in Fox lounge. With the date, time, and place of the next meeting being set, the Forum adjourned. All people interested in any of the proposals to be discussed are urged to attend the meeting Wednesday. office. the COC office (room 308 of Carnegie Hall), or in the , .. booklet, which explains the COC's workings, (that wiH soon be in al'l student mailboxes.). Once the lorm has been filled out and reviewed, action .be.gins on the grievance. One member of the COC wiJI direct the complainant to the correct channel, within the college. for resolution of rhe complaint. If the si·tuation can be si,trtply rectified, then the charge is dropped. Grievances that 'deal with individuals. who are acting as members ol a fraternity will be handled by an 11-C conduct commiHee which is now in the process ot being set up. The complainant must agree to let the I ICC handle the case, but can always appeal any decisions to the co c. A case that is t:J.Ot settled satisfactorily is brought before the , full committee. The parties of the grievance, ami pertinent witnesses or contributors then present their sides of the story to the COC. · After deliberation on the case, the COC, within one week, makes its deci.sion, After the decision is made, a . re.:ommendation for appropraite action is forwarded to the proper college authority. As a preventive measure, the Security Department has been empoweted to levy fines of $25 on thos~ who commit the same offence twice in one evening: drunkenness is not consider.ed an excuse for •disruptive conduct. The toe has established seven guidelines, flexible enough to include all forms of conduct, which will serve as a basis for the committee's decisions. As the academic code implies, all students and members of the college community are guaranteed: I ) Use of facilities; access to as s~;t up by guidelines of the departments controlling these facilities. i)Privacy i·rt terms of personal possessions until lt;!gally taken away; privacy does not inchide the exclusive use of or control over any co~occupied room or building on this campus. 41 Protection against, ana freedom .from.. bodily harm or threat to health. 5) Freedom from blatantly obscene or offensive behavior (including malicious harassment or persecution). 6) Protection against willful or irresponsible destruction ol personal or community property. 7) All rules and guidelines as established in the Union Colle:,ge catalog and student life handbook will .be upheld by the COC. It is itnpor:tlmt to note that the COC will emphasize discussion and communication, rather than acting\ as a purely legalistic body. Dean of Students Mark Smith has recommended that the \concept of a committee of peers would be more useful than the concept of court.\ Dean Smith has also stated that his. office is \one-hundred percent behind\ the · CQC and would \back up the committee cotJlpletely.\ The COC is ·intended simply to help in the development of a better college. Every issue will be dealt with fairly. honestly, and without bias. If there are any questions abot the COC's operations. feel free to contact arty of the committee's members: Karen Osterweil: 370-645D Nancy Feldman: 370-1269 David Moskowitz: 370-'6793 Mary Mastrianni: 370-6611 Marjie Kohn: 374-0701 John Margolis: 346-9582 Rob Stoltz: '? In addition to this action the Forum also discussed ·a resolution submitted by Larry Fein. chairman of the Tax and Audit Committee. The resolution would place severe sanctions on clubs and organizations that do not abide by their approved budgets either through internal transfers or overspend in g. Presently, the only measure the Tax Committee can take in such a situation would be to fine the organization. The resolution that Fein submitted would empower the Forum to revoke or suspend the constitution of the offending club. The resolution will be voted on at the next meeting. Harkness Tells Local Alumni Of Hockey The final issue that was The Provost has appointed an Ad Hoc Committee to· evaluate the tenurability of Assistant Professor Thomas Werner of the Department of Chemistry. Persons who are are able to contribute to the Committee's investigation are invited to . submit statements or give their names to the chairman, Frederick Hartwig, Department of Political Science, Social Science Building. Recently, a search committee was formulated to find two coaches for female sports. If anyone has any information which might aid in this search, please leave a message in Box 1277 or contact a member of the committee: · Lisa Rogovin (chairperson) Diana Gazzolo Marian Baciewicz Susanna Miller Prof. David Nye Prof. Tom Kershner By MURRAY LEVISON Yesterday afternoon the Schenectady Alumni Club held its monthly meeting at the Girling Center. Out of an approximate total membership of 1500, over 100 showed up to hear the featured speaker, hockey coach Ned Harkness. At the start of the meeting, Harry Demgen, Director of Alumni Affairs, reminded the alumni of the Garry Wills Lectures, the Walter C. Baker Lecture and this weekend's Glee Club performance. The alumni were strongly encouraged to support and attend these events. Coach Harkness then took over the meeting. He started by thaHking the alumni for their support of him and the Hockey Program. He stated that he had .. never worked for a better President.\ A great year was predicted, especially because of the type of players recruited. ''The kids will never quit on you, because they don't know anything else.\ The freshmen recruits were highly touted, although some have been cut already. Harkness says he puts academics first; \Eight members of the team were on the Dean's List last year, and all the players returned this Fall.\ Harkness. who has \never coached a group of boys more dedicated, who work harder, or who are more disciplined,\ meets once a week with the players individually to discuss their academic standing, and also holds team meetings for the same purpose. Union is \an easy school to sell,\ according to Harkness. He thinks that the site of Union, its small classes. beautiful campus, and strong faculty are reasons that he has been able to recruit such outstanding ~tlayers. Harkness also thinks that Union's .. athletic facilities are just excellent.\ Harkness definitely sees the Hockey program advancing in the future. Some of the best hockey schools from Canada are coming to play this year. There are also four top Division I teams that Union is playing, including the University of New Hampshire and Clarkson, who were rated 2 and 3 respectively in the East in a pre, season poll. \No team h'as ever picked up a schedule as tough as ours in their second year.\ Harkness has also gotten inquiries from Denver and Wisconsin, two other very good hockey schools. Harkness sees the role of publicizing Union as an important role for the team. The Glee Club's proposed trip to Venezuela, for which the Hockey team donated tickets to their intra-squad games, is one way that the Hockey team helps spread the word about Union. Harkness then concluded his rambling-styled spe!!ch, and fielded questions. One alumnus said that he had heard of friction between the players and thtt rest of the students. Harkenss agreed, and felt it was because of the team's newness and winning ability. Harkness feels that the general student body \figure somebody is getting something better than anyone else.\ A question was raised about going Division I. Harkness replied that \it's only a number ... Half the teams in Division I can't beat half the teams in Division 2.\ Hartness. also mentioned that \there's no difference in the way I operate here than I did at R. P .I. or Cornell.\ When asked about R. P .I. hockey. he replied, \When will we beat them'? As soon as we play them .. : If they're going to play us, they better do it soon!\ R . P. I. refuses to play us in hockey until we go Division l. although when Harkness coached lacrosse at R . P. I.. they always played Union, even though R.P.I. was an \A\ team and Union was \C\. The last question was directed at the J. V. Hockey situation. Harkness admitted that he wanted to create an extra squad. Harkness claimed that it was the twenty or so players themselves who felt that if they shoWed enough interest, then they could get the funding. Right -now Harkness says he has equipment and a person willing to coach these other players. Coach Harkness at Schenectady Alumni Club meeting . ' Two Un came extre .charged wit entering tb which WOI their possil Schenec.tad At appr Satmday, employee Pub enter( basement door to 1 Mazzone, 1 open. Und the evenii was in the towards t~ the mana. employee was wron1 office to leaving, on pack of abscondin1 witness, id Pub emplc leaving be fled. The the frame Mazzone's indicating Pro, Ra£ \The ret:eivin~ the bas recomm, In. M: Senate ·V appoint : Relations Septemb~ a Senate the Colle institutio be both to hand racism. There provocat formatio1 Rather, concern: campus~ incidents over the campus,·· Daniels, CORR, larger S( exists h facilitate problem~ EOl Much work '-\ nature .. cantpaig1 to fo>te which mainteri. environ.n

' . ' CONCORDIENSIS, Wednesday, Nov, 17, 1976· Page3 Dutch Hollow Hit Two Union College students came extremely dose to being, .charged with breaking and entering this weekend, a charge Which would have resulted in their possible incarceration by the Schenectady Police Department. and . ma-intenance _persons were immediately notified. The followiNg day Mr. Cliff Wood. Chief of Security. summoned several .students to his office· for questi<ming. Two studen~s admitted to having committed the act of vandalism. Initially. Mr. Wood, Mr. Mazzone .. and Craig Carlson intended to publicly prosecute the two students. as their actions were clearly criminal. breaking and entering being a second degree . felony in New York. Yet after much discussion. it was decided that the incident should be dealt with internally, and the matter was turned over to the Conduct Ombudsmen Committee. and to the extent that it is viable, should he dealt witt, internally. Yet Wood emphasized that hag the two students committed the act against any establishment off the <;a.mpus grounds, they would have formally been bro.ught up on charges of breaking and entering, · This incident will be the first important issue to be deah with by the Conduct Ombudsmen Committee as an drm of the College communi~Y- Hopefully, matters such as this can be cur,bed by action within the institution itself. The course of action taken by the Committee ort this incident will set a precedent for its future decisions on similar charges, and will similarly test the ability of the Union C(Jllcge community to deal w1th such practices rapidly and appropriately. Broken office door of Pub, victim of thievery by U. Col/. students. At approximately I 0 p.m. on Satmday, November 13, an employee of the Dutch Hollow Pub entered the Carnegie Hat! l;>asement and noticed that the .door to the office .of Angelo Mazzone, fhe Pub's manager,. was open. Under the impression that the evening's student manager was in the office, he proceeded towards the Pub. After spotting the manager by the bar, the employee sensed that something was wrong and returned to the office to find two students leaving, one in possession of a six pack of beer, and the other absconding with a full case. The witness , identif'ied himself as . a Pub employee, and the studeQts, leaving behind the case of beer, fled. rhe employee noticed .that the frame of the door to Mr. Mazzone's ot:fice was shattered, indicating forced. entry. Security Wood defended this decision by citing two major reasons for turning the incident over to a campus committee rather than taking the case to court: First, Wood felt that the cooperative attitude of the offenders should be taken into consideration, and second, he felt that crime and vandalism are offenses against the Action Group Forms . College community as a whole, Prof Daniers, .Chairman of the Senate Commission on ~ace Relftti011s.. t • I ' by CINDY V ANINA What is PAG? Is it Chester Arthur's middle name, a new comp. ed., or a descriptive title for· Schenectady weather (p,fecipitation and gloom)'? Although these are great suggestions, this title belongs to a growing number of students interested in improving campus attitudes and spirit, referring to themselves as the \Positive Acti0n Group.\ How many times have y0u asked yourself, \What am I doing here?! Shouldn't there be more to campus life thanjust studying and weekend partying?\ Well, this is what PAG is trying to improve upon. The general problem came to light at an Intellectual Cabaret held several weeks ago, publicized with the to;pic, ·~stude'flt Life at 'Union: Fact and Legend.'\ What sprang forth from this session was a real enthusiasm shared by a large number of students who became interested in actively be found at the Student Activities Office, the Dean of Students · · · .·:.-. · ··c· ... · · • • R d :···R·ace·,·._ ,_·,~mmt.sslon .... ea .. ··y < : • • • ' L. ' \The Commis\Si~n on Race Relations shall be responsible for reteiving a'nd reso/vil~g all grievm~ces (:oncet;ning discr_imination _on the basis of race: and for generating and/ or unplementmg recommendations concerning the 'improvef!!enl of rare relations.·· In · May, 1975., the College Senate ·v0ted' ~hat ttie Provost appoint a Cq:m!lli~sion on Race Relations to. begirt fun-ctioning on September I, 1975 .. rhe.rORR, as a Senate Committee, represents the College's commitment to an institutional apparatus which will be both capable and empowered to handle~ any allegations of racism. There was. no direct provocation that sparked the formation of the Commission. Rather, there wa~ growing concern atnqngst.many people on campus abo~t a number of racia.l incidents whioh have occurred over the past few y~ars: . \The campus,\ say~. lj>rofessor William Daniels, Chairman of the CORR, \is ·a microcosm of the larger socie_ty and · thus · racism exists here as elsewhere.\ To facilitate the (landl'ing of such problems the CORR was formed. EPUCATIONA·L WORK. -from the charge to the Commission on Race Relgtions Commission plans to pu:rsoe this end by means oi' discus~icins ·and . lectures throughout the campus. : This will . be the first year tl')at the CORR will formally review. case.s. Purrt.uant to its appointme~t last: fall, the CORR has not been called upon to resolve any · complaints. The Commission does not sit in permanent session and comes into being when it is asked to deal with a specific complaint. The Commission's mem oets, however, may meet for the purpo.se of making recommendations to the Administration or Seriate. The CORR's-- pFoec;:di,!qd ·processes en~cotirag·e···. t~e !\~solution of grievances on an ·inform~! basis.· It ·is S>i'fly. -after . easuat attempts at rec1):ncil:iation have failed that more rtgorol:ls' proced<Jre.s are app·lied, The · de$ire to deal with as many gri:evances ·as possible on a basis that · . is as educational al}d Much' of' the · Cotnn-;is~io!l:s iM:Ormal . as- · . pos~i&le is so Work Will be \educational. · i'n ' fundamenhtt tO the €:o-m mission's nature.. An · educatio:R~l. p-lans·: th1t:t : -i.to. :0pera.dng campaign, )t t.S. hoped;; will. ~ep.:: \t}roceGiui.es. pro\vide ·for no less to f o~ter the rac!al harmony than ;,ix a:,ccnding mean:, am.! which i~ , n~ces~fi.rY ·. for, tht: · 'levels for· dealing with any cases mainteriat1ce ·of a healthy that are brought to the CORR's envir\onment on campus. The attention. The most ba~ic of these prcedures calls simply .for the offended party \to inform the alleged offender of his 1 her feelings and the injustices or mistreatment 1 perceived.\ The CORR cannot apply sanctions. The Commission, rather, serves as investigators, facilitators, and negotiators. If all the CORR's efforts for reconciliation between the parties involved . should fail. a report is submitted to the Administration, where the matter is pursued further. COMMISSION MEMBERS The Commission does not sit en bane to review complaints. The Chairman selects four or five members of the CORR to sit and hear individual cases. Presently, the members of the Commission are Professor Edward Craig, Beverly Hill, Professor Martin Lichterman, Carlos Rojas-Hill, p,rofessor George Smith, Professor Peter Tobiesson, Donnell Underwood, Profes!>ur Terry Weiner, Marilyn Becton. ·william Collins, Joseph Johnson, Leonard. Lee, Lauric Rachlin, Robert Wilson, and Professor William Daniel> (Chairman). There is no fixed number of members, but it j, expected that the Commission will have approximately twenty members. Any complaints of racism should be prc>cntcd in either w r i t t e n o r v e r b a l form (preferably verbal) to Chairman Daniels (political science). promotmg a campus wide feeling of positive attitude. We want to really get involved in different college experiences and projects. There are tremendous possibi- lities for increased intellectual stimulation as well as innovative projects which radiate a school spirit. (D0 you even know the school colors or the Union football fight song?) After several meetings, the group has formed several committees which work in cooperation with Student Activities and the already- established committees and clubs on campus. There have been committees formed on Public Relations; Small Regular Events, Communi- cations, and Homecoming Weekend to offer new types of actiVIties for any students intere~:>ted ii! getting involved with otners at a different level of participation. The Public Relations Committee is striving to stir up some school spirit to combat a general feeling of apathy that the students feel present. You'll be hearing about the Winter Sports Kickoff scheduled for December 3 up at the field • house. It's a good opportunity to· come and get rmvdy before finals week! Communications Another closely related committee, Communications, has proposed a small candy and magazine shop be set up in the . lobby of Carnegie. An important part of this little stand would be a phone service which would provide information on all the events going on on campus. Right now it seems that publicized meetings, lectures and events are scattered through different forms of media and often some · interesting activities are left out. The committee is working with Craig Carlson to set up a different and more informative events board in Carnegie. There is the Small Regular Events Committee. They are working on a wide variety of ideas to involve students in a different atmosphere. Plans include a flea market the first week of every term at which used course books, furniture and any other odds and ends will be sold. Also in the planning stage are a series of book discussions. These will be informal gatherings in which a book, chosen and announced ahead of time, will be discussed. . . Other suggestions ·include a steal~the-flag event, cross-cou~r..¥ skiing clinic, traying, and · a weekend campout winter term. And a weekly event that was started last Friday night was the informal sports events in the field house. This is for all those who can remember those carefree school days when you played dodge ball, kickball, steal the bacon, and SPUD. Homecoming Last but not least there is a Homecoming Committee which is trying to plan activities in Which' present students and alumni could participate in together in an effort to set up better communications lines between these two groups. Any suggestions or ideas you have please bring them to the next meeting. If you would really like to see these ideas materialize, please support PAG in the vari01.1s activities it will· offer in the coming year. Look for posters for the next meeting time. ·r:be ..§octal tommittee Presents cN!Pf!TC E llli.th fllob ~linw & [ c rent l&tatc SaturdUJ..Nov.2o af_JJOi.lOJOJl71L $2.50 adm. includes 3 drinks & cheese le6erv. taken starfiljJ Thurs. the 11 ~ at 8tud viet To be held in Old ChuyelcAyyp;mate attirejjadets S'flf

__ Page4 CONCOJ?_[)lENSIS, Wednesday, Nov~ 17, 1976 . Library Budget Analysis Budgetary concerns seem to occupy many minds as the Committee on Planning and Priorities winds up its deliberations. The Schaffer Library, some of whose internal policies were focused on last week, is in a particularly anticipatory position as it awaits appointment of a new head, in addition to its annual budgetary considerations. As a follow-up on last week's feature, Concordy did some poking in the budget to take a look at the library within the campus-wide context. This led us to Provost Willard importance of distinguishing between the categories A, B, and C items as listed in tile Ct~rrent Funds Expenditure Budget: A represents salades, B is for supplies and equipment and C reflects capital funds. In the case of the library, column C demands our primary attention, as it encompasses book ~nd periodical acquisitions -- which, of comse, largely determine the quality and vitality of the library. vulnerable ·to this suddenly imposed conservatism. While the early-1970's was a period characterized by expansion, due to develeping co- education and sttengthing of the liberal arts programs, the Ubrary's budget took a peculiar twist. l-lere after a period of increasing emphasis on · the library, we find what has been termed a crippling setback. Schqffer Library in all its Splendor and Glory · Enteman for some insight and general observations. In preparing one to decipher the budget, Enteman cautions on the According to Ms. Evans, acting head of the library. Schaffer is in the proccess of recovering from what she calls \a drastic cut\ fo·r the 1971-2 year. Evans explains that then-President Harold Martin was forced to cut back and the library was particularly · The late 1960's saw the relevant portion of the expenditures grow from $47,205 in 1967-68 to a full $121,880 ·in 1970·71. Unfortunately, this surge of financial support for the library was temporary, as 1971-72 expenditure fell to $98,523 and then further back to $89,906 for 1972-73. Judaic H·istorian Lectures Library staff members agree that it is difficult to maintain the qua 1 it y of co II e c t ions, commensurate with the course by JANET CHAPMAN \We really are our brothers' and sisters' keepers and our brothers and sisters are everyone and everywhere... This is the philosophy of Professor Jacob Neusner after his experience in South Africa. Professor Neusner is an author of over thirty books on Judalca and numerous articles, and is a pr-ofessor of religious stud~s at Brown University. Dr. N.eusner Went to South Africa for three weeks t<>discover what it's like f<>r a Jew to live in a ·population where Jews comprise about '12 percent of the total and no blacks living under the population. He went there same roof.\ Those who refuse to thinking he would keep his Jewish censor themselves end up in jail. concerns separate from other Professor Neusner explained human concerns, but found that how the blacks of South Africa was impossible. He discovered are forced to live ·in .. large cages there was .. no .boundary between called black townships:• Blacks being Jewish and human.\ build the country, but have no He found the Republic's way of share in the fruits of their labor.\ life dehumanizing. The moral way He made an analogy comparing is to submit to authority and · the land of the holocaust to South surrender one's freedom of Africa. except the. blacks are expression. In 'exchange, a white being persecuted and their yellow man is entitled to security and Star of David is their skin. Within comfort. \servants a nice home hours after his visit, the black Protect Your Environment by SHARON GRUBER and PAM MADEIROS Tomorrow morning when you stumble out of bed for your 8:30 class and trip over a large box placed strategically in front of your door, take time out to see what the box is there for. Jt will probably be the PYE box for recycling newspapers. Yes, the Protect Your Environment Club does exist here at lJ nion and has enjoyed an amazing resurgence this past year. PYE's main objectives are to make our campus more aware of environ- mental issues and to establish projects giving Union students · opportunities for active participation in environmental affairs. How do you know that PYE exists and is not just a figment of our imaginations? How can you ignore the existence of an organization that lists among its accomplishments such diverse considerations as an inve11tigation of the status of the Hans Groot Kill (lovingly referred to as The Creek that Reeks), an· appreciation of the ecologically unique wild-life and forestry of the Pine Bush region in Albany, and an-interest in the preservation of the underdeveloped areas of our campus. Arts Complex Site Ah issue of special interest to the PYE organization is one that concerns itself with the future of our campus, specifically with the proposed site of the new Arts Center. As of now, one area considered would entail the use of a section of Jackson's Gardens. PYE is apprehensive as to the extent of the land development that would take place within the Gardens and is seeking to prevent any action that would threaten the future of the Gardens. Still another concern of PYE is the use of the northeast corner of Jackson's dardens as a depository for Maintenance garbage. PYE feels that this is an outrage, an infringement on each student's right to appreciate the natural beauty the Gardens have 'to offer. Included in the ongoing interests of the PYE organization ·is th.c investigation into the abuse of our Creek that Reeks. Last· year PYE led an inquiry into all possible sources of the pollution of the creek. The discovery was made that there existed a link between the sewage drain and storm pipes, resulting in a feeding of sewage into our beloved creek. As a result of this investigation the situation was soon remedied. Soapy Film Recently, a soapy substance was found lurking atop the stream. One possible source of this substance was thou_ght to be the melted ice disposed of by the Acltilles Rink. The outcome of this situation and others depends on students of Union College. PYE officials, (seniors) Paul Siegal and Mike Rehr, stress the tact that there exist more proJects than interested members of PYE. Needed are more enthusiastic and aggressive students, willing to give as much time to the organization as their schedules and social life will allow. Chern majors and English majors alike can come together under a cause not unique to Union College but one that greets us, wherever we turn. If you are interested; come to Strauss lounge. Monday nights at 7:00 p.m. or contact Mike Rehr at 393-8239. If there are changes to be made in this world, in our surrounding environment, they can only be made by YOU! Kilgus Tackles Position by CYNTHIA ARANOW To most Union students, the name Debbie Kilgus is associated with the Housing Office. However, as of November 8 of this year, Debbie Kilgus was officially destgnated Associate Director of Alumni Affairs. A Union alumni herself (class of '73), Ms. Kilgus 1 now works with other alumni. She is primarily responsible for the devel<>pment of the Alumni Club Program. The Alumni Office is probably not as well known to Union students as is the Housing Office. The Alumni Office's function is keeping the alumni in touch with the school while siniultaneously helping the college. Associated with the office is the Alumni Council. The Council, consisting of an alumni from each class since 1912, meets twice a year. Some members of the council are also liaison representatives to other campus offices such as admissions and placement. In addition to the Council. alumni are kept in touch with Union through Alumni Clubs which are located throughout the country. Among other things these clubs serve to link the alumni with the Admission and Placement Offices. In her new job, Debbie Kilgus is off-campus and traveling more than before. Working with alumni is \much different\ than working with students. She misses the student contact. but notes that she isn't completely isolated from the student body. Organizations such as the Alumni Student Board help keep her in touch with the undergraduates on campus. Looking back on her previous job. Ms. Kilgus noted that students have taken a more responsible role in housing. \The dorms are much more active and there are more programs. I heft by students has decreased while student involvement has increased.\ She also remarked that the dorms h&ven't been as abused as in the past and that the students seem to \:are.. In addition, she hope~ that the stereotypes of the dorms are changing. In the future, Ms. Kilgus hopes to increase a\\ are ness on the part of studcnb ol Alumni Office activities. Anyone intcn:stcd m t mding out more about the office's operation should sec Debbi~ In Lamont House. that had been set up until that time. It should be noted that rebellic:~ began. · bo<>ks and · ·periodicals a·re Professor Neusner found overt purchased thr-ough income from anti~semitism to be a common endowed funds, ·in addition to occurrence. One example was the annual appropriations.. such that interview he was given by a we are not completely dependent broadcasting staff. The on the college-wide budgetary i\nterviewer didn't want him to process for acquisitions. talk about ·his trip's pu£pose, The past few years reflect an Jewish ideas. and practices in attempt to boost the library Africa. · He found the African funding levels back up to former Jews to have accepted their levels. The capital expenditures position as a barely tolerated but were raised to $110,224 in• 1973-74 useful minority. However, and then to $]26,524 the Professor Neusner did mention following year .. -furthe.r, the that a good percentage of Jews expenditure. fot books and h;lVe formed constructive periodicals in 1975-76 grew to assoc1at10ns to improve the $149,548 and then $175,203 was blacks' conditions. This finding budgeted for 1976·77. fits in with his per.sonal The cutbacks appear even that conclusions that he leavned about much sharper as we see Union on himself through his trip. ••Being a .comparative basis with other Jewish gives me a tie to tlle schools included in the Bowdoin humanity at large.\ He believes study .. Compared with some 40 freedom is indivisible; all have to similar l~hools in a category titled be free for it to exist. ·~expenditure as percent ·of .---.--t-----------, institutional tot:;rl,\ Union sunk I s h. f+: :;, · · . from lOth positon in 1969-70 to . c a ter Library .hours for 28th in 1972-73. The latest Thanksgiving recess will be: available statistics, however, show Wed., Nov. 24 8:30 am-5 pm that we improved slightly to 25th Thurs., Nov. 25 Closed positon in- 1914-75. Fri., Nov. 26 Closed The d-imensions of the Sat., Nov. 27 Closed Schaffer budget remain to be Sun., Nov. 28 6 pm-ll pm seen, due to its inclusion with the Mon., Nov. 29 Regular hrs. .teaching· faculty budget. In light resumed of exorbitant inflation which has The Night Study will be qpen during this entire period. particularly affected publishing costs, it is that much more important to budget Schaffer Library to the highest. level. Debbie Kilgus, goodbye Old Gym Hall, hello Lamont House. art TM t~ Ar On Thursd Esta Blood. c teacher, will I as part of the the topic of\( this month International and the Intel Society. The auditorium i1 building oJ (SSO\ 6.). The g p.m. and 1 invited. Ther• Mts. Bloo Ideas,~n Mt will , HIJlstra playiQg ~.1;1• follqwjng ··. co mpel}itiol].l The ~ulga~~~ Bea~alk,. -~ Jack •Built •. · The.Ball~ solo ··il:~d .·\' De by JOSE BRIEF, and Ll Stop. you're m We, the Night D are mon response We're n mean, we us a fe-. But no overwhel can't wri the law • any hocl So we acting. ' going in· are also (Charles of the ; think, a just eno any Ca apprecia But capital I away ar you all January from tl across tune of As Jim into off swear Cabare Night l

CONCORDIENS/S, Wednesddy, 1 Wo·v.. 17, 1976 TM Lecture Artist to ·Speak On Thursday, November. IH, Schirmer in 1970 .. It was most Esta Blood, composer and. piano .recently performed by Juana teacher, will be the guest lecturer Zayas at ll nion College on as part ·Of the series of lectures on November 5. The Bulgarian Trio the topic of\'Creativity\ presented is a work for flute, violin and this month by the Students piano. Both Jack and the lnternationa·l Meditation Society Beanstalk and The House 'f;hat and the International MeQitation Jack Built are compositions for Soclety.Thelecturewillbeatthe children which were auditorium in the Social $cience commissioned by the Winds and building of . Union College Strings,. The Winds and Strings (SSO 16). The lect~re will begin at are a group of 2 wind instrument S p.m. and the general public is and 2 string intrument players, all invited. There rs no ~dmission fee., members of the Albany PageS culture Mrs. J3lood will spea\< pn, My' Symphony who perform in the · · · Ideas,~m M.u~ic!ll Crell,tivity. She. schools to show childrcn,\i..b.aLJJle ~. C?n; f?J · ~!IJ..e many;. Mtfuri{e~fJilf,ks productiQn o{lbstp'~ :~{'af. ' . . . ~.- •;,. ... will )L\!.lstraste ·her id~ai;i . by , , various instruments are capable playit:!g !J..I;l.Qi9.· , tapes· _o;f . Jhe · , .• of. follqWing .. o( . ·ller,; . o~;:igipal,. ~ Mrs. Blood was born in New co mp0§itim;~~:, 'J;I1e, Jlalk!!,n, Suit.e~,.,: ,)' ork City and · stu¢j.ed. ·~at the; The ·Bulgar.ijan, l;riq,..Ja«c ,and. the . :M'ilnp~~tan ,Sc;hp.o,l of .:M.~;~si.c: She Bean~alJ<,,. an5i. The·, H,o.use tbaC· . has li':'J.;d, in ~c.h~nectady ; since .. 'P~er Gynf: Two Reviews ·· (Special .. repdni · from . · · · Jack, Built. · . . · . · . · , ,. , . , :195~. and is ma~tied. to sculptor: TIJe .. ~a.IJ,.an Spite j~ a ),.Riario . Robert' Blooc;l. ili~y h~ve, a )6 Knickerbocker News - Union Any, Sand.ler., S,t;;t,~) 1 .. ; r· . • . ' . , . . - They can't be singled out or Theatre to see a stale, stuffy' representation of an Ibsen play. This production is to Ibsen what military music is to music. The solo. ~~d. was pyl!lisJ:lttd . 9v. G. year. old son. ... • 1 • by BRUCE HUSTE:N identified because of the The tradition with the ensemble playing, btit this is theater department at tJnion the best acting we've seen from College of late has been to Union College performers in take classical plays and update ma11y a year. them, with directt'lr and set designer producing startlif}gly . st· d .. t' . a· ' ' .. ,. imaginati:ve'conceptions whioh . u .en. . pinion fail 'to wo-rk f()r the audiertce· because of the· inexpedience of the perfoTmers. · The college's Mountebanks opened Herliik lbsen's _·classic fantasy, \Peer· Gynt,\ · in ·the Nott Memo.rial Theater last night and, to a certain degree, the tables were turned. The young students are surprisingly talented. . If you. don't know aLl about the adventl,l.ves, ,of this wild, imaginative, lying young rna~ who runs off with his bride and then becomes an outcast, den't expect. to learn about them here. ' ,, I • -I J ( .-. '', by Jt)SEPH MILLETT . The Union College Mountebanks production of Peer ~ynf; dir~cted by Alan Wynroth, is a success on its own· terms. Rarely has there been as high a caliber of student acting on the Union campus as there is in Ibsen's fantasy. The staging is imaginative,. and even if you dQn't understand . everything that ,go.es on, don't worty about .it. Peer Gynt is not a me&sa,g~ play. It is a Esta Blood, who will sp~ak on-creativity in S.S. 016 Thursday at 8. Wymoth• · gives us an ensemble cast of 15 players, and, at one point or another, !. they all assume different roles . pl~y .of the emotions. This production will make ,you giddy, . empty, confused, sad, glfld, all of'· this and more: It' wlli lii'l you from all sides and never let up. It is an intense· eXperience. In addition. it ·is something that has never been seen here before. When you walk into the theatre, the actors are already there on stage warming up. The beginning of the play sneaks up on you, and it travels back and forth in your m.i nd, see m.i ng ly with out structure, for almost two hours. You are never quite sure which actor is playing w~ich role, but it. doesn't matter. As Alan Wy~roth has directed the play, · it isn't important what Peer is feeling or where the plot is. What is important is the moment. Ibsen's Peer Gynt has been transformed from a whole play into a series of moments, hke a string of pearls that has been broken and closest · thing this productjon resembles 'is Off-Off-Broadway during the upheaval of the 1960's. This is an example of ensemble- theatre at itS'firiesCN& ~he actoV is' prominent. Everyone'. on stag~ is mutually supportive. \rile· actors are: ·Sandy Adams, Mitch Blair, Lorraine Bohanske, Adam Frey, Chuck Holleman, Vesa Lappalainen, Jayne Maller., Ann Nicholas, Wanda Nichols, John Rose, Peter Sears,George Siletzsky, Louisa Slowiaczek, Steve · Solomon and · Andy Sandler. Each one of them has contributed ~o one of the most memorai:ile, · If not the ' best, experimental production Uni.on College has ever.seeJhJf'y.gu.want t~ . se~ a . dariogly biz.ar.re production of . Ibsen, and you should, . get\ your tickets at the . Nott between 1-5 p.m., It ends this Saturday, and you really shouldn't miss it. / Dead Set· To Perform includ.ing Peer Gynt himself. Charles N. Steckler's by JOSEPH MILLETT~ MATT · BRIEF, LES GUITARSTEIN, and LITTLE DAVY THE SKWITZ Stop. No~ really, stop. No,' you're more than kind. Really, We, the writers of Thursday Night Dead from Schenectady, are more than pleased with the response from the community. We're really not that good. I mean, we even .got the Geek to do us a few tunes. It's frightening. But no more, please. We're. overwhelmed with people and we can't write parts fast enough. It's the law of supply and demand, as any hockey player can tell you . . So we're not solicitng any more acting. We can't handle it. We're going into analysis next Week. We are also writing away like blazes (Charles Blazes, a mystery writer of the 30's). Dead is funny, we think, and we know thl:\t it has just enough lack of taste to make any Cabaret audience wet With appreciation. But we're bastards with a capital B. We're not going to give away any of the jok.es, and make you all suffer immensely. Until January 20, when the thing rises from the Dead and tap dances across the Cabaret stage to the tune of \Bei Mir Bis du Schoen.\ As Jimmy (Jif) Carter is sworn into office, we will be making you swear you'll -never·· enter the Cabaret again until Thursday Night Dead cleans up its act. So thanks, aU you thespians (and normal people too) who so graciously volunteered your time, t:ffort and what's left of your minds to make the Dead live. All we can ask now is that you swallow your pride and pay the dollar on January 20 to see seve.ral of your fellow students probe the catacombs and alleyways of the college We'Ve all gro,wn to tolerate. You won't be geometric, laddertike sets are, as us u.a I, unbelievably imaginative and stunningly multi-functional. It is the acting that deserves credit here. The cast members include Sandy Adams, Mitchell Blair, Lorraine Bohanske, Adam Frey, Charles Holleman, Vesa iLappalainer!J, Jayne Maller·, Ann Nicholas, Wanda Nichols, John Rose, Peter Sears, George Siletzky, Louisa Slowiaczek Steven Slomon and ,glad you did. THE WAY WE WERE Time, like wine, runs on Past the cloudy days And sweet wild rains And tears like crystal , Stay trapped in wildwood wedges Of the brain And radiate in rainbow wanes. Years, like streamlets, Run in sundialed grooves Past carbon letters Grained in holiday distress; A single memory In detailed dust, As the new strands tWine on. !~t, Jan De Deka ,..,.. ~end your ~oems for publication in Fine Lin~ 1 /fb b~x 1738 m th~ ma1lroom. Poems printed unsigned on request. QuestiOns and comments also welcome .. We want to hear from you. scattered on the floo[. And it works! P.rovidjng you don't go into the Nott Men;torial DEBATE CLUB MEETING The Union College Debate Club will hold an organizational meeting on Monday, Nov. 22, at 4:30 in Straqss Lounge . .All inter~sted persons, witl} or !Nitl;i.out previous debating experience, are invited to attend. The purpose of this meeting is to discuss the range of activities that will be covered by the club and to decide on an agenda. Anyone who has any questions· concerning the Debate Club should contact David Goss at 410 West College; 346-9491, or Debbie Katz at 356 Fox, 370-6670. THURS., NOVo 18 ~t 9:30 & 11:30 Sharon Rubin Lisa Katz FOLK MUSIC Diane Gazzolo - Poetry M.C. - Jody Stollmack Incidental Music - Paul Castrataro GAME NIGHT EVERY TUESDAY9-1

Page6 ·r;oNCORD_,IE}{SIS, Wedn~sday. No.v, 17, 1976 ' • ' ' : • • t \.. ,. • ' ~· . - ' - • - - - I .: . ~ IN ·. - .. ·T- ·E· ·:R· ·. v· I·E·· · .· w· ·. w··· ,1~ ·T·· ···. ·H···;. · --n· · E· - .. ~;~···zN;, c ~ . . . . . • : . . . ' :' •• ,, • . ' ' :• ~ . ,. ·~ ' :·'\ \\ . ' • ' ~ _- ' .' :·., - •• ·.;· ' .• ;1! ,·, • .. ' ••. -~-'-'' ::.· ;~\ ~ •• --' ' This is the first in a series of Concordy interviews with prominent members of the campus community, The interviews have been transcribed and the questions for the interviewee each week will cover a broad spectrum . . This week, Dean of Faculty Paula Brownlee sat down for over an hour with Concordy and addressed all ofthefotlow(ng questions. Dean Brownlee, formerly of Rutgers University and a Ph.D in Chemistry will be the first in what will be a series of frank interviews with campus notables. Part 11 of this interview will appear in the December 1st issue of Concordiensis. · Concordy:. Why did you decide to co~ne tCl Union? Brownlee: Oh, that's a complicated qllestion. First of all, my i greatest interest Hes in 1 working with. the overall ·education of the student and . that's the kind of thing I wanted in my next job. You have to set this against my background of coming from a state institution (Rutgers) which was intensely bureaucratic and, since I'm not much of a political animal, I found that intensely frustrating. I'm not interested in dealing and making deals and all that kind of thing. I'm interested in working with students and working so that an institution offers the kind of education to each individual student that moves each student along with their (sic) path of education and intellectual development as far as it can go. When I first carne to Union for the preliminary interview, though I knew very little about Union, I was immediately impressed with the intensity of concern of the faculty, students, and administrators on that Search Committee with education, how a Dean wollld help with curriculum, planning, and so on. Throughout 'the whole interview process, and it was a grueling one, the thing that most interested me was that the faculty and students did seem to be united about the education that was being given at Union and the manner in which one would proceed to always improve it. And that's why 1 came. Concordy: You haven't found Union overly bureaucratic? Brownlee: No. There are ways of any institution that a newcomer has to learn; I haven't learned them yet.. There's an awful lot of committee work, but, 1, don't get me wrong, I'm very much interested in an institution where faculty and students .participate as widely as possible. But I think committee work should be kept down to the most important policy making issues and . we shouldn't .. spend hours and hours on deta.ils that could probably be d~ne in a routine manner. Con4=ordy, So, then what have been your first impressions of the faculty and student body now that you've been here? Brownlee: I am teaching a class which is delightful and I worked with Freshman Orientation. I really enjoy the students very much, l find them lively and willing to speak their minds and debate an issue. I find in my class, unfortunately, that high school preparation is not what it ought to 'be, at least in Chemistry. Although, once they understand the principles, l find them quick and well rounded mathematically - that's going off on a tangent a bit, but I hear a lot about nonparticipation of students. Again, l think only from my background, I find that students here participate more than they d1d at Rutgers; relatively speaking, greater numbers come out. That doesn't mean to say that one is ever satisfied with that. One always wants more participation but it's really not so bad from my background. As far as faculty members are concerned, I am really impressed with their dedication to the students and their interest in their intellectual development, what goes on in the classroom, and so on. I wish there were not as strqqg barriers around each department. It's a very departmentally oriented college as far as I can see. But, better that than no commitment 1,1t all or weak commitment by' the faculty to their discipline. 1 think the faculty here are awfully good, and they're a challenge, very lively people. Of course, l'm biased. I think that there~s no group of people I'd rather work with than a good faculty ·and a good student body. And that's what we have. Concordy: And what were your impressions of the All- College Senate ~neeting last week? Brownlee: 1 was impressed that there were so many people there, so many people who'd 'Come to visit, which I think is very good. I didn't realize it wasn't quite so much of a Senate where people came in not so much to debate issues, in fact, I don't think it is a Debating Society really, people came in having already caucused I would guess. (sic). Concordy: The issues are decided ahead of time. Brownlee: I suppose you couid say that. I myself personally was not briefed sufficiently on the whole issue of the Non-Academic Transcript. Two students came to speak to me 2 days before, but that's all 1 knew about it. The Arts Concordy: Would you say the development of the Arts is our number one educational priori~y? Brownlee: Well, I don't think I'd like to rank them 1,2,3 because there are several Issues at the moment. Of course, my own • particular concern is the general education curri9ulum, ·how that will develo;p. Alongside 11hat, we have . two more .departmentally oriented or· more specific enes. One 'is · the ·development· ·<>f. ·the Arts and the other is where we ·go· with Academic computing, which is another very expensive issue. Certainly, the Arts question is a qritical one. Those three things I'd say. Concordy: What actions can . the Dean of Faculty's office take to facilitate that expansion in the Arts? Brownlee: Well, again l think it's a question of planning and sounding out the community. The most important think is to get at least a majority of faculty and students backing this kind of movement because it is going to cost a great deal of money. Back at Rutgers, I was involved with the final stages of putting up a very new large Arts complex. Very expensive b1,1siness, Concordy: Do you see any hostility by certain faculty divisions or students on campus towards expansion of the Arts? Brownlee: Not hostility. I think there's some apathy; I think some students are not interested in the Arts which is unfortunate, since I think everybody needs their aesthetic sensibilities developed, all of us, not just students, but faculty, administrators, and staff as well. I think there are faculty members in other divisions who are saying, 'if we develop that, does that mean that our programs are going to be cut down?' Whatever we do at Union College, we should strive for exceHence. There's no question that we have certain departments that are already developed to a certain point and are very fine. 1 would not like to see their quality undercut because money ne~ded to support their program's has to be funneled away to the Arts. We don't want to end up with a larger, more evenly balanced but mediocre college, academically speaking. We need the funds and the intellectual. commitment to the Arts to really make it first rate. Tenure Concordy: What is your opinion of Union's systent of tenure and do you think it could stand any improvement? ... Brownlee: This is something that I'm going to be watching as I work through the different stages of the year. Of course, l'll see each phase worked through. I think the Faculty members seem · to go through a very careful review process. I have never heard of such a careful process, in tertns of interviewing students, and coUeagues talk.ing to members of committees on which the candidate has served. . The information that's collected during the · evaluation is very, very, carefully done. I'm .sure that some of. the younger and newer faculty members know what the criteria are by which they will be· judged. And 1 think that it's our responsibility that when a new faclllty member is hired to Union that I discuss very carefully what it :is . that's expected of .him. It: is a grueling business, but· it's carefully· .done. The results are an awfully good facultv. I can go by the results. -Concordy: Were there sinlil~r backlashes at Rutge[s -- where certain members weren't tenured? Brownlee: Absolutely, always. Concordy: That's a perenf]ial Spring thing here. Brownlee: Yes. It's a miserable business. Let me say that it is my unfortunate job in a way to have to ask myself the question, not just me, The Committee on Faculty, or the Board ofT rustees, whoever makes the final decision, what is in the best interests of the Institution as a whole'? This always means some sadness on a personal level because really one gets to know these faculty members and likt;: them personally and appreciate what they do for the College and many of them are very fine people. Nevertheless, I come to the point of a negative decision, whatever it might be, I have to think, well it's very sad situation for that particular person but it' s only because I know them personally. Out there hunting through the fields are equally meritorious faculty members who might be better for our institution without positions. I don't happen to know them, but it must get above the emotional attachment to individuals and say who is the best person in the long run for this institution because we're making a twenty, thirty, even longer, year commitment to an individual. Concordy: So I gather you feel students have significant input into the educational process here? Brownlee: I think so. Grad (:oncor comment inflation? ' what can I Brownie last few ye we've see1 numbers < decrease course, yo ways and more efff students t we in fa.ct in terms student!! labs, or ' The comrr fact we•re on studt making m it's very h~ F when med schc so on. knew th' mixture 1 would students out prol In term about it and not capabili1 be loo average~ examplf class wi supposiJ A's, 5 r D's an exam pit dO A b .3.}3 wl another relates. ( Bro sense.

f' - •• _ • ~ r.: ~' \: \~ -~ ~· .:· : .. - i- \ CONCORDIENSIS, Wednesday,-.No,v~ lZ,-1976 . . ... -. - - -- .. - --,~~--·._E_E_- BR ~- ·-o·· -_- w· -_ -·.N} ·L· _ -- __ ·.-: · '' • • j' ' '. ' - • ' ~ • . ' ~ ' . . ' . • / ·_ ::, ,~'- ' ••• · ,_~,_. •.• ! ... ·_. • , PART I Grade Inflation .. ' ~now what happened m class. lfs a yer.y thorny -problem and People look at trends and again you have to ask yourself what is t)le purpose -of.ed:uca~ion. lf we're on what you want to say your magna cum laude students ate. ' . ' (:oncordy: Would ypu comment about the grade inflation? Why does it exist and what can be done to deflate -it? . wa.p.ti_ng io evaluate how good a . job we . d9, 1 suppose the next . t)ling weuld be to see how our students measure up iB the next General Education . I Brownlee: Well, yes, over the last few years there's no questill>n we've seen an increase in the numbers of A's. and B's·, and a decrease in D's and Fs. Of course, you can look at tlliat two ways and say are we 1f'!aching more effectively and ate our· students better prepared) .or are we in fa,ct lowering our standards in terms of what's expected of student~? in say, reading lists, labs, or whatever it · might be. The common sense of it is that in fact we're being softer and softer on students because they're , making more a·emands on us and it's very hard to give them a •D or F when they're competing 'for med schoor .. law school, jobs, and so on. I suppose if we really. knew the answer, it's probably a mixture of these different factors. I would hope one reason is that students do get at faculty, iron out problems, and do quite welL In terms of what we can do about it, if in fact it's inflatic:m and not a reflection of students' capability, ... perhaps we should be lookmg more at overall averages within a class. For example, if you have a Histmy class with 20 students in it and supposing 10 of them received A's, 5 received B's, and rest Cs, D's and F's. We could for example say this student received <tn A but the cla~s average Was 3.H which would give you another measure of how that A relates. Conc()rdy: A curve? ste.p, how they do in grad schools, how do they do in their first positions. More interesting to me is really how do they do 10 or 20 years hence. What kinds of positions, how successful are they, and there ;1gain 1 have to believe the undergraduate college . had a tremendous impact for some students, and for others, it really doesn't. Concordy; Do you agree with measures like last year's raising of the Dean's List from a 3.0 to a 3.35 just to maintain the honor? And nqw. they're considering raising cum laude, magna, and summa? Brownlee: Well, went through this at Rutgers; we raised the cut-off at Rutgers for Dean's list and so on. I really have onlv one defense of that and that is if 60 percent of the class is getting on Dean's List, it's much more of a bad mark against a student who doesn't get on Dean's List than if it's go percent of the Class is not getting on it; then it's no stigma. But if you're one of 40 percent, then it becomes downright embarrassing. Concordy: What about Concord)': Okay, let's get back to general education which you said was your primary interest. What do you think of our Comp. Ed. system and do you think there are any plans to alleviate its faults? Brownlee: Well, I am of course extremely interested in this. As far as I can understand, and certainly when l first read the catalogue before I came here, l thought, \my what a marvelous systerh.\ When I came here and talked with people all over the campus, students as well as faculty members, I find that there's a grave disi~lusionrn.ent with it. I can only imagine it's because the system as it was originally put in has \really been changed. First of all, some of the courses that were kindsof courses ' that were absolutely an integral part of the system are no longer offered for whatever reasons. The departments haven't put their faith in them have backed off them and sometimes the reason is they don~t have enough staff or whatever. But, a large component of the original kinds of courses are no longer there. I would hope, however, as we probably throw the bathwater out, I hope we d<m't throw the baby along with it. Because I think there are some philosophical points about it; the educational philosophy is fine, and I think what we need to do is understand very clearly what we're doing now. It's not what's in the castle, but what the reality is now, what's good about our system, what's bad about it. Try and retain some of • the good points and it will probably evolve into a system that will have the clout and the ba,cking by faculty and students. magna and summa? Magna last year was 3.5 and they were considering raising that last year. \ Brownlee: Really, personally Brownlee: The equivalent in a sense. But, then again you don't don't think that's much of an issue. As criticai as the question is of not having very many people on Dean's List, it becomes a blank here. I'd think l'd have to know much more about it before I'd make a comment. lt depends Concordy: So it will ,.be, any change ' that comes will be a gradual evolution rather than one big overhaul? Brownlee: I wouldn't want to be absolutely categorical, but I suspect, because of budgetary constraints thai it will probably have to be that way. That doesn't mean to say that we can't say what we'd best like to do, but we may have to say our best will be out in 3 or 4 years and we'll evolve to it. Because, for example I believe that the students, which really amazes me, were quite interested in required English Composition or some such kind of thing. Now to do that, you would all of a sudden need 6 or 7 full-time faculty members to teach; you can't fire other faculty members and hire new ones. Concordy: Do you think the fact that students in the Humanities, and Social Sciences have avoided taking Science and Math «:ourses and vice- versa in part have accounted for some grade inflation? Brownlee: Yes. Concordy: 'Do you think returning to a system where students had minors would increase the general education background of students? Brownlee: Yes, it depends -of course if they take a minor very closely akin to their own major, then it wouldn't have the effect to broaden the education. The one, there is a great deal to be said for that. It still \fOUld only \tiroaden\ in two directions so to speak, maybe We'd want to do a little more with that. Concordy: Do you feel the thesis and senior research in the sciences have value? Brownlee: Excellent. Yes, very, , very much so. End of Part I Part II of this in-depth interview will appear in Concordy's December 1 issue.

Page8 CONCORDIEJI!.SIS, Wedn(!sday, ._Nov . .J.7,. 1976 - . {IMPORTANT) - This exam schedule is Physics 13 (Introduction for regular, day undergraduate courses, II)(Biology, \lD.\ Science C.S. 248 (Sec. 51)' and \Section 52\ Arts Majors), SH 100, Peek graduate courses. A separate schedule for Psychology 10 (A First \Evening Division\ . courses will be Psychology) . · to Physics Philosopht 20--t(Classical J..,ogic), · HU 117; and . Liberal Marchi . , . . . . . ·r..- , • • o! ~ , ' .. ' P~litical Scie~c~ 12 (Co~t~~orary l.t?-t~r- Course m nationaf Polit'ics) · · · · ' · · · · · . ' , , . ' I announced, and, students in \Section 51\ Sec. 3, PY 113, Calabria courses should be alert for the announce- Sec. 4, PY 102, Downing Sec. 1, SS 112; <;J-ati ' '· '· Political ·SCience 166 · ·tPre·~id~~ti_,al Politics), HU 115, Daniels ment of the exam time for. those courses.) E.S. 10 (Mechanics and Strength of Statistics 10 (Introduction to Statistics) Conflicts in examinations should be Materials) reported to Mrs. Lapidus in the Office of Sec. 3, B~ 109, Hibbe~er . . the Registrar not. later· than Monday, . E.S. 22 (S:1~nce of Eng1neermg Matenals), November 29, 1976. ,. . . : 1 ;, , • • . BH 203, MI11llo . · . C;.E. , .41 . (Legal Aspects of . Engine~ring), Examinations will be held in the assigned f.. • · · >. :nH 106, Harlow · .· · . . rooms. Listed below is the code of the C.E. 45 (Watttr Resources), BU 106, $n~w buildings to be used. M.E. 30 (Dynamics of Linear Sy~te.~), AB- Arts Building BH 108, ~ubrey ·,. ..- . · ·. BH- Bailey Hall C.S. 12 (FORTRAN Programming), .B,H \BU- Butterfield Hall 207, Tse · 1 HU -· Humanities Building - NW ·- Science-Engineering Center ·North ', · ; .. :· ·. . ·.· W.ing PY- Psychology Laboratory SS -. Soci~l Sciences Building SH - Steinmetz Hall MONDAY, DECEMBEJl6. 2:00a4:00 P orvlo • • Comp. Ed. 123 (Modern Jewish History), SS 112, Berk History 187 (Modern Jewish History), SS sec. 1, ss 014, s. Schmidt ·. -\); . · --\' Biology 14 (Biology of AnimalS --~Core I)-; SS 016, Rappaport, Roth 'Bjology 140 .(~i9ch~roiGal . ,and. ·:Molecular Genetics), BH 102, But~el,.,; ;·, ... ;' _. . · ..... 1 · ·:6iology l45,(l!t9t~:z;-o.ollogyr)i· B~ ·106; Styles Chemistry 152 (Physical Che.mj~,try: JJ), ·NW.;U6~-SQ.t~~f:.' ':<···;; t--r· .~:d ·!c'i{'. Mathematics 24 .;(Q?.O.Ip~try),>Bll;.. IP4;:·G. _Reynolds . . . , .... Mathematics 136 (Real ·variable Th~ory 1), BH 201, Zwicker. ., · Physics 11 (l~t\fo~duction .t·o .. ·pnysi~s • ·~ • . ' . . ' . I . I)(Bmlogy, \I.D;- Science and Liberal Arts •. t . . ' - - : ~- '. ~- ~t 'l i : ' .. ... ' r • r. ¥·, _ ... , -, ., Majors)·' SH· 100 L'ewis ·-, ., · ' ' ' Physics 15 (PHn'Clpld.f' of Mod~rn Ph:Ys~cs 1), BU 106, Jones '· ' ~ · .l;f ' Physics 132 (Electricity and Magnetism ·I), SH 219, W. Schwarz MONDAY, DECEMBER 6 9:00-11:00 A.M. 112, Berk Political Science 10 Political Analysis) Psychology 10 (A First Course m (Contemporary Psychology) Sec. 3, PY 102, Bashore Comp. Ed. 57 (The Nature of ·Mathematics), BH 205, Stone • Comp. Ed. 115 (Work in American Society), HU 115, Schneller Economics 10 (Elementary Economics) Sec. 2, SS 115, Prosper Sec. 3, SS 012, Ross Economics 11 (Elementary Ec~momics) Sec. 1, SS 014, Kent Economics 138 (Quantitative Methods m Economics), SS 010, S. Schmidt Englisl,l , ·10 (The Eng1ish Literary Tradition: Medieval and Renaissance), HU 117, Stevenson English 13 (Major American Authors), HU 114, Wineapple History 12 (Jacksonian America, 1812- 1840), SS 113, Potts History 142 (Modern Germany: Bismarck to Hitler), SS 112, Hansen French 131 (A General View of French Literature), HU 110, Thomas Spanish 12 (Basic Spanish III), HU 116, Valdes Spanish 133 (The Spanish Language in Practical Use I), HU 112, Ginsberg Political Science 151 (American Foreign Policy), SS 117, Gati Sociology 157 (Sociology of Work and Occupations), HU 115, Schneller Statistics 10 (Introduction to Statistics) Sec. 2, BH 104, Miller Biology 12 (The Cell-Core Ill), SS 016, Lambert, Smith Biology 51 (Ecology), NW 116, George Biology 180 (Biochemistry), SH 106, Birecka Chemistry 10 (Fundamental Chemistry l}; BU 204, P. Brownlee, Sheffer, Scaife Mathematics 41 (Linear Algebra I) Sec. 1, BH 201 1 Fairchild Sec. 1, HU 115, Board Sec. 2, H U 115, Board Sociology 128 (Sociology of Medicine), SS 113, Carlile · Psychology 30 (Theory of Personality), PY 113, G~aves .. · ... : · · Psychology 64 (Seminar I), PY 213, Girdner Statistics 201 (In-troduction to and Statistics) Probability E.S. 10 (Mechanics and Strength of ' Materials) · Sec. 52, SS 115, Holmes Biology 21 (Biological Analysis), BH 203, Tobiessen Mathematics 30 (Ordinary Sec. 2~ BU 109, Eisenstadt Community E.S. 24 (Electric Circuits)~ BU 204, Russ. E.S. 26 (Thermodynamics: and Heat Differential Transfer),, Sl:l106, S.~~~~ebrQqk . . . .,, · .< E.S. 30 (Mechanics of Defo.r:m~able S~lids), B H 108, Panlilio \ Equations) Sec. 1, BH 201, Ming Sec. 2, BH 207, Fairchild TUESDAY, DECEMBER 7 '9:00-11:00 A.M. F.E. 66 (Intelligent Life in the Universe), BH 203, Schick Comp. Ed. 118 (The Fate of the Hero), HU 110, Heinegg Economics 131 (Microeconomic Analysis), ··SS 012, Kenney Economics 132 (Labor and Industrial Relations), SS 115, Prosper English 120 (Puritan and Colonial American Literature), HU 014, Hesford . English 122 (The American Short Story), J:IU 114, Gado History 10 (Colonial Period· of America, 1607-1776), SS 117, Wells History 35 (Europe in the Early Modern Era), SS 010, Hansen History 65 (Latin America Since 1825), SS 113, Bristol French 10 (Basic French 1), HU 112, Le . Clerc Russian 10 (Basic Russian 1), )jU 116, Jernakoff C.S. 17 (Introduction to Computer Science), BH 207, G. Williams TUESDAY, DECEMBER 7 2:00-4:00 P.M. Comp. Ed. 134 (Soviet Law and Political Justice), SS 113, Sharlet Economics 10 (Elementary Economics) Sec. 1, SS 016, Phaup Sec. 4, SS 016, Phaup English 14 (The Philosophical Novel), HU 116, Gado · · Chinese 10 (Basic Chinese I), HU 110, Blader Chinese 130 (Modern Chinese 1), HU 110, Blader Chin-ese 140 (Modern Expository ·chinese 1), HU 110, Blader Political Science 146 (Soviet' Law and Political Justice), SS 113, Sharlet Political Science 189 (Seminar: Theories of Political Election), SS 112, Wills c~s. 14· (Introduction to COBOL and Information. Processing), SS ·115, T Schwarz A.O.P. 02 (Semantics, Critical Reading and Writing), HU 112, Thornton F.E. 2: 112, WI F~E •. 3: M. Smi F.E. Softwa f._E. 7~ 104, Sl Comp. HU 11 Comp. 101, L~ Comp. Physic Comp. 016, R Comp. Electr1 Comp Earth) Comp Hendi Econ(] Sec. Econ( 014, I< Econ< andP Histo1 113, 1'- Germ Klem1 Spani Spani HU 1 Philo! HUO Politi natim Sec Politi Politi Soci(J HU 1 Aine1 Cultt Chen BH 1 Matt and~ Mati Se1 Pbys 106 ' . Psyc. Psyc Se Se Psyc py ~ E.S. Se E.E. 106,

. ;. WEDNESDAY, DECEMBERS 9:00-11:00 A.M .. F.E. 22 (Int~oductiori to So~iology), HU 112, Weiner , . F~E •.. 31 (Flies H~:ve Dirty Feet), SS 115, M. Smith . . F.E. 65 (IntrodtJ~tion to Computer Software), BH 207, Ghang F ~E. 70 (Resources and E~vironment), BH 104, Sheffer ' Comp •. Ed 42 (Humanities: The Origins), HU ll 0, Hendricks Comp; ·Ed·. 56 (How Things Work), SH 101, Lewis •· · Comp. Ed. 64 (Great Ideas of Modern Physics}, SH 100 .• Ohanian · Comp. Ed. 116, (History of Science I), SS 016, Reece Comp. ··Ed. 150 (Stereo, Television, and Electronic~)~ BU 204, Craig Comp. Ed. 152 (The Evolution of the Earth), AB 202, Zimmerma~ Comp. Lit. 42 (The Origins), HU no, Hendricks Economics 11 (Elementary Economics) Sec. 2, SS 0 12!) Kenney Economics 134 (Financial Analysis), SS 014, Kent Economics 142 (Macroeconomic Theory and Policy), SS 112, Ross History 47 (British History to 1688), SS 113, N. Allen German 12 (Basic German Ill), HU 116, Klemm Spanish 130 (Readings in Contemporary Spanish and Spanish American Literature), HU 117, Valdes Philosophy 12 (Philosophical Problems), HU 014, Marchi Political Science 12 ( Contempoquy Inter- national Politics) Sec. 2, SS 117, Thurston Political Science 133 (The Economics of Political Development), SS 010, Johnson Sociology 11 (The Individual in Society), HU 115, Carlile. . American Studies 10 (Survey of American Culture I), HU 114, Nye, Hesford Chemistry 40 (Quantitative . Chemistry), BH 102, Werrier Mathematics 18 (Introduction to Logic and Set Theory), BH 201, Loullis Mathematics 41 (Linear Algebra I) Sec. 2, BH 106, Huffman Physics 1~1- (Physical Meteorology), SH 106, W. Schwarz Psychology ·to (A First Course in Psychology} Sec. 5, PY 1 13, Britain Sec. 6, PY 106, Spring Psychology 46 (Physiological Psychology), PY 213, Bashore E.S. 20 (Mechanics) Sec. 2, BU 109, Hibbler E9E. 151 (Digital Systems Concepts), BU 106, Hoffman CONCO]{DIENSIS, Wednesday, iJov., 11, 1976 WEDNESDAY, DECEMBER 8 2:00-4:00 P.M. F.E,. 62 {The Urban '\Crisis\), SS 117, Mason F.E. 64 ·(We.ather and Climate)~ BU 109, D. Stone Comp. Ed. 51 (Information Systems and Society), SS 113, Stelmack · Classics 21 {History of Greece), HU f 16, Hendricks French 12 (Basic French HI), HU 110, Le Clerc Chemistry 118 (Inorganic Chemistry 11), : NW 116, Scaife Geology 51 (Oceanography), BH 207, Zimmerman Physics 11 (Introduction to Physics l)(For Phy~ics Majors & Engineers), SH 106, Titus Physics 134 (Physical Optics), SH 100, C.D. Swartz Psychology 10 (A First Course in Psychology) Sec. 1, PY 102, Huntley Psychology 24 (Social Psychology), PY 213, Downing Psychology 48 (Clinical Psychology I), PY 113, Dowling E.S. 10 (Mechanics and Strength of Materials) Sec. 1, BH 201, Milillo E.S. 20 (Mechanics) Sec. 1, BH 108, Panlilio C.E. 42 (Soil Mechanics), BH 203, Harlow E.E. 30 (Sy,stem . Theory I), SS 112, Goodheart · C.S. 248 (Minicomputer Archit~cture and Software) Sec. 51, BH 106, G. Williams THURSDAY, DECEMBER 9 9:00-11:0Q A.M. English 145 (Introduction to Shakespeare), HU 115, Stevenson History 118 (Women in America), SS 112, Nye Sociology 152. (Education and Society), SS 113, Weiner Accounting 10 (Elementary Accounting I), SS 115, Kauth Chemistry 30 ( O_rganic Chemistry I) Sec. 1, BU 204, Sowa Sec. 2, B u 204, Martin Mathematics 170 ('Fopology I), BH 203, Ming 2:00-4:00 P.M. History 177 ·(Modern China), SS 113, Thurston Philosophy 44 (Political Philosophy), HU 117, Baker Biology 32 (Comparative Vertebrate Anatomy), BU 204, Butterstein Mathematics 12 (Calculus II) Sec. I, BH 108, Bick. Sec. 2, HU 114, Zwicker Mathematics 14 (Calculus Ill) Sec. 1, BH 207, Strait Sec. 2, BH 207, Strait Sec. 3, BH 201 , Gillette Psychology 62 (Practicum in Human Relations I), PY 113, Girdner .. -.; .... Page9 Mathematics 10 (Calculus I) Sec. 1, SS 016, Taylor Sec. 2, SS 016, Taylor Sec. 3, SS 112, Huffman Sec. 4, SS 016, Taylor Sec. 5, BH 205, Loulis Sec. 6, BH 201, Gillette Sec. 7, SS 117, Muckenfuss. Sec. 8, SS 115, Reynolds Sec. 9, H U 115, Seiken Sec. 10, BH 203, Stone Sec. 11, HU 115, Seiken FRIDAY, DECEMBER 10 9:00-11:00 A.M. Comp. Ed. 22 · (Sex Roles in American Society), PY 102, Britain Comp. Ed. 31 (Introduction to Music), AB 202, Wilson Comp. Ed. 155 (Water Resources), BH 201, Snow Music 10 (Introduction to Music), AE 202, Wilson Latin 10 (Principles of Latin), HU 112, Hendricks English 165 (Modern British and American Poetry), HU 110, Davis History 127 (The Development of the American Economy);· SS 117, Finkelstein Hlstory 132 (Late Medieval and Renaissance Europe), SS 113, N. Allen • German 130 (Readings in Modern German Literature), HU 117, Kellenter Hebrew 10 (Basic Hebrew I), HU 114, Heckelman . Hebrew 133 (The He brew Language in Practical Use), HU 114, Heckelman Spanish 144 (The Generation of 1898), HU 116, Ginsberg Psychology 38 (Child Psychology), PY 113, Britain Psychology 50 (Educational Psychology), PY 213, Girdner E.S. 11 (Resistive Circuits) Sec. 1, BU 109, Chang · Sec. 2, BH 207, Tse Sec. 3, SH 106, Craig C.E. 20 (Land Measurements: Theory and Application), BU 106, Male E.E. 101 (Computer-Aided Circuit Design), SH 101, Gajjar A.O.P. 01 (Pre-Calculus Mathe~atics), HU 115, Nunnoo-Essandoh 2:00-4:00 P.M. German 10 (Basic German I) Sec. 1, HU 112, Klemm Sec. 2, H U 110, Kellenter Spanish 10 (~asic Spanish I) Sec. 1, HU 115, Ginsberg Sec. 2, H U 117, V aides Philosophy 10 (Freshmen Seminar m Philosophy), BH 104, Enteman Philosophy 13 (Ethics), HU 114, Baker Physics 13 (Introduction to Physics II)(Physical Science and Engineering Majors) Sec. 1, SH 106, Ohanian Sec. 2, BH 201, Titus

·-~-·· Page 10 CONCORDIENSIS. Wednesday, Nov. !7, 1976 EDITORIALS Time For Action! \All proposed major changes in educational policy ... shall be submitted to the appropriate Faculty body.,. - the Faculty Constitution, Article I. section 3 Hi~her education in AmeriCa is approaching a perilous time. With shrinking applicant pools hovering in the near future, ever growing financial difficulties spreading like a cancer, and the continuous movement toward converting college into a mere vocational school for the professions, we are at a crossroad' in higher learning. Besides these general enigmas that besiege universities throughout the country, Union must face its own peculiarinstitutionalp!'oblems. Foremost in our minds is the issue of the College's willingness to make a firm commitment to academics and intellectual developments on campus. The forces of counter-productivity, however, seem to be winning. Needed changes either go unrecognized or are recognized, but go unacted upon. In many instances the i-nstitutional superstructure is a retar~ing factor. The structural processes often have proven to be unwieldy, slow, and non-productive. Poor communications, secrecy, and mutual ignorances further inhibit the traditional modes of operation. All of these forces, however, are not at the heart of the College's failure to respond to the problems which confront it. People can make the system work; but they also can block all the workings of the system. The faculty sits at the fulcrum of the power structure with respect to academics. No alternations in th.e school's academic programs are possible without the support, if not the initiative, of the faculty. For too long a pre-occupation with picayune considerations, an attachment to the status quo, inter-divisional differences, and myopic views of educational and institutional growth have restrained all movements for change. It is an accepted fact that the College~s. commitment to the theories of general education remain firm and well documented in theory, but go unimplemented in practice. \In spirit\ we have a freshman composition requirement and a non-academic transcript. The failure of the Comprehensive Education system has been acknowledged for years; yet, the structure stands intact Almost twenty percent of every student's education is spent on such aca,demic facades. Our arts program remains terribly deficient, as is the system of academic advising. It is time that everyone looks beyond their personal divisions and selfish interests and begins to focus on the concerns of the school as a whole. Campus politics and conservative entrenchment must not be permitted to suppress needed innovations. Not long ago, Union was praised as a progressive instltuuon, a leader in the field of new and innovative ed1,1cation. But ·:.no longer can W€ boast of this acclaim. Instead, we remain bogged down in the mire of reaction, inaction,- and factionalism. Sleeping Senate \There shall be no fewer than three meetings of the Senate in each ten week term.\ the By-Laws of the College Senate, Article I, par. 2 \There being no business submitted to the Agenda Committee at its November 11. 1976 meeting. it has been decided that the meeting of the College Senate scheduled for December 1 will be cancelled.\ -letter to Faculty and College Senate from Provost Enteman, Chairman of Senate Agenda Committee By the end of this 'ten week term' the All College Senate, in violation of its by-laws, will have met only once. Judging from the Provost's letter one would assume that there are no pressing matters confronting the College. This is in obvious contradiction to the reality of the situation. The number of issues that are begging for resolution is astronomical. The spirit of the All-College Senate is to provide a forum throughout which all Campus constituencies can convene to attempt to solve the problems of the day. The required number are necessary to insure that the representatives of the various constituencies meet and face the i~sue~. The Senate i~ the repository of a tremcndou~ amount of responsibility. Each member ot that legislative body has a duty to seek out issues and deal with them appropriately. We can only condemn the Senate's inaction and neglect of their governmental obligations in light of the College\ current state of affairs. The lull in Senate activitie~ comes at a time when Union needs more educational innmation than it ha~ for the past few years. II the Senate, th~o: nwst powcrl.ul and \isibk kgislati\;C body on Ca mpu..,, cit her n:lu scs or neglect'> io I ull iII ih assigned role of lcadL;r,hlp. then it \\ould ht: nain? to expect le-.~ ro\crfuL k\\ 'i-.ihk gmnnmcnt:tl puup\ and inJi, iJuai, t1i fi.ll rhc \<JCIJllrn ..:JL-;!lcJ h; lhl· .~b~cnn: 111\ \\urking Scnatc. l !IIlii: ncuh .1 d~ :1;1mk \ll l'llikrc Scnat.:. I ht: ah~cncc of -.uch a hud) m:tL·, 1hl· tllltta!turt (lf a..:llllll and thc \olut.ion ol rllohlcnh 111lp,ul1,thk. \\1· .tdnowkJgc thl' Scuatc·~ potcnt1al t•• pro\tdl' a Juc.tillllglul .wd pn>dtJctt\C gll\erning body; h11\H'\l'J. \\tth•Hil mn·ttng. n\tllltl!! \\illc\cr he J,lllL' . ' r' ~ .. The 21 00 Dollar Ri.pOff by MATT BRIEF Everyone should know by now that the once very successful Film Committee is in close to dh:e financial straits. Film rental ~rices are high and student attendance at films ha-s been alarmingly low. So low, in fact that the Committee was forced to book cheaper older fHms such as 'The Odd Couple'; and \West Side Story\ this term. However, those films were the choosing .of l&st year's. committee~ This year's committee is making a concerted effort to improve Union's . film progvam for next term. The schedule will be out before the end of the term and 1 . think students will be surprised by the amount of recent quality films as well as \cult\ selections (they'll be on Tuesday night again) that have been planned. The financial plight of the Film Committee is not a lone venture, the entire Tax Committee with its $150,000 treasury chest is having trouble financing the plethora of student activities that it must support. $2, I 00 is over one percent of the entire student tax treasury. It is more than the entire budget. of several clubs. The Film Committee would easily run in the black and get better artd more recent films if it had an extra : $2, 100. $2,100 is the amount of money that the school is extorting from the Film Committee. The means of extortion is simple. The College charges the Film Committee for the use of lush, comfortable SS 016. Most everyone has been witness to the superb screen, sound, and projection facilities in the Social Science Auditorium. For every two hours of SSOI6 usage, the film Committee must pay the school seven dollars. The math is simple, 7 or 8 showings a weekend, 2 or 3 on Tuesdays, 10 .total showings a week, 10 weeks a term. 700 dollars a term. $2100 a year. Gone, from the students' pockets into college coffers. This arrangement can be disputed on several grounds. The first is principle, how can the college charge a student activity ought to be given first crack at for a facility, particularly in such projecting films. This would cut an expensive manner'! Tile $2, IOO down on cost. Finally, if all else has in no small way weakened the fatls tht~Y ought to at le~;~st be quality of the Film Committee's entitled to reasonable service. offerings. It eats up over 25 Item; the projectionist for the_ percent of their budget.. . 7:00 Saturday night showing has This tneans that student tax b~erihlte or lia~n·t shown upth.ree money is merely being funneled times this 1 term! Despite requests into the college budget. Tuition, for • her dismissal by the r.oom, and board are fees for the Committee, nothing has been college budget to absorb. Student done. Projectionists ought to be tax money ought to strictly go paid, particularly grant-in-aids, for student usage. but not by student tax. The money supposedly goes to Competency, though,. ought to be maintenance of facilities and a requirement. payment for projectionists ln short, 2,100 dollars may not ,(usually grant-in-aids.) First of see~ ~ignifican~. However, if all, the facilities from screen to you re dtspleased many way by the .speaker to proj~ction are quite fihr~ p~ogram next . ti~e you're poor, secondly_. student tax sqm:r~mg and swea.tmg_tn SSO:l6, should not be responsible for st.rammg to hear a ftlm be~ng financial aid, thirdly, the shown on. two ~creens, thmk members of the Film Committee about the $2, 100 npoff. ·· · .. ; ~~ill? , .. ,~ ''\;tlle: '•sr;\C§flei~r1<1:MntlHi'liP't;r~ttg; · · · .';t 0 ····pay···tne $2'HU ::l:~!!!!\'•\':.''\'''::::~.·;::::r:::;::~:~;; .•. ,,w:·.Wniit;r\·\·it~·<,;thaM·>ti;m~~·:;;;:··:Y:;;:.:::· .. were asking fo~. and then cam; opportt~nity to brin~ a great again-1 must pick my courses f?r out to show th~ir :support for deal of tame to th1s school. next term. and y_ou perfuncto~tly the glee club and the hockey. and need hut support (morai !>'ign my totitsc· hst, tt seems }lke team. ,.. · as well as hnancttti.J to do so. h' !ttl awt-'UHy .¢llt-aftd·dried process, The second wnuld indud{! is fo.r this rea:>nn that l appeal doesn't it'! the people who want to see to the campus community, rhe sign on your door has thiB school gH someplace <m!l This Saturday, November hours which yQU have set aside are WtHmg lw work tnr it. 0 20, at ii:OO p.m., the Men's lor advtsing. '{ ou ~u1:e. haven't am m hopes that ev.!ntually Glee Club :w4U present a provided . tnany hours. l <hdn't ... ),'t '. ' by I The w, organizati< Union I Discussion faculty pn goals and are uhclf people at what it's does. On Ca.ucus sa communic and the c: they don't want. Questio effectivem filled out both m; addition •. the Cauc Gem Mite The questione~ for the women's response When as were und< of a Wo .,.:. by Preside four cam discuss tt tenure I prCiposed appointee committe voting .ri. the Com and othe are discu I The ~ this col campus groups - and stuc has repn making Each gn well· a

Page 10 CONCORD!ENS!S, Wednesday, Nov. 17, 1976 EDITORIALS • ' \ ~ ' • ' • • • '.' ~ ' \ • '' '' > •• \ ' ··, Time For Action! \All proposed major changes in educational policy ... shall be submitted to the appropriate Faculty body.\ - the Faculty Constitution, Article /, section 3 Hi$her education in America is approaching a perilous time. With shrinking applicant pools hovering in the Hear future, ever growing financial difficull ies spreading like a cancer. and the continuous movement toward convertiHg college into a mere vocatioNal school for the professions. we arc at a crossroad in higher learning. Besides these general enigmas that besiege universities throughout the country, Union must face i'ts own pcculiarinstitutional 'problems. Foremost in our minds is the issue of the College's willingness to make a firm comrrntment to academics afld intellectual developments on campus. The forces of counter-productivity, however. seem to be winning. Needed changes either go unrecognized or are recognized, but go unacted upon. In many imtances the institutional superstructure is a retarding factor. The structural processes often have proven to be unwieldy, slow, and non-productive. Poor communications, secrecy, and mutual ignorances further inhibit the traditional modes of operation. All of these forces, however, are not at the heart of the College's failure to respond to the problems which confront it. People can make the system work; but they also can block all the workings of the system. The faculty sits at the fulcrum of the power structure with respect to academics. No alternations in the school's academic programs are possible without the support, if not the initiative, of the faculty. For too long a pre-occupation with picayune considerations, an attachment to the status quo. i11ter-divisional differences, and myopic views of educational and institutional growth have restrained all movements for change. It is an accepted fact that the College's commitment to the theories of general education remain firm and well documented in theory, but go unimplemented in practice. \In spirit\ we have a freshman composition requirement and a non-academic transcript. The failure of the Comprehensive Education system has been acknowledged for years; yet, the structure stands intact. Almost twenty percent of every student's education is spent on such academic facades. Our arts program remains terribly deficient, as is the system of academic advising. It is time that everyone looks beyond their personal divisions and selfish interests and begins to focus on the concerns of the school as a whole. Campus politics and conservative entrenchment must not be permitted to suppress needed innovations. Not long ago, Union was praised as a progressive insutuuon, a leader in the field of new and innovative education. But no longer can we boast of this acclaim. Instead, we remain bogged down in the mire of reaction, inaction, and factionalism. Sleeping Senate \There shall be no fewer than three meetings of the Senate in each ten week term.\ the By-Laws of the College Senate, Article I, par. 2 \There being no business submitted to the Agenda Committee at its November 11. 1976 meeting, it has been decided that the meeting of the College Senate scheduled for December 1 will be cancelled.\ -letter to Faculty and College Senate from Provost Enteman, Chairman of Senate Agenda Committee By the end of this 'ten week term' the All College Senate, in violation of its by-laws, will have met only once. Judging from the Provost's letter one would assume that there are no pressing matters confronting the College. This is in obvious contradiction to the reality of the situation. The number of issues that are begging for resolution is astronomical. The spirit of the All-College Senate is to provide a forum throughout which all Campus constituencies can convene to attempt to solve the problems of the day. The required number are necessary to insure that the representatives of the various constituencies meet and face the i~sues. The Senate is the repository of a tremendous amount of responsibility. Each member of that legislative body has a duty to seek out issues and deal with them appropriately. We can only condemn the Senate's inaction and neglect of their governmental obligations in light ot the College's current state ot attairs. The lull in Senate activit1e~ comes at a time when Union needs more educational innmation than it has for the past k'A )Car'>. I! the Senate. the most po\Httul anJ \lsihk legislatne hody nn C:tmpu\. ellhet tl\lu:-.e\ or nq!lech \ll lullill 11'-. assigneu !<lk .,, it\ad<T thet• 1t \\•'t:ld he n~tJ\e 1,, ~.·,re,:t k,.., r~ '~,· ... ·rl!d. L·~· \]·:/':'-.' :-'\ 1 \:f!:'J·'n~~) ..:-~··.·'.!P ,!Tlt..! lfh.-fJ\ldtLt! .... !·' r ' !'; '. ;·' ,I ·. \ ') ;_ ' . ; I : . I • ~ ' : : --,\ ,_· ! II, l. I i J •, ' . ' ' ~ . l (_ j ' I ~ '-' \ \ . t \ ' : ! . I r ~ I ~ r · : ' ' ' i : • i ' ; : ·. t ~ \ •, . f • ' ' , · I I • ' ' \ The 2100 Dollar Ripoff by MA IT BRIEF Everyone should know by now that the once very successful him Committee is in close to dire financial straits. him rental prices are high a11d stHdent attenda11ce at films has been alarmingly low. So low. in lact that the Committee was forced to book cheaper older films such as \The Odd Couple\ and \West Side Story\ this term. However, those films were the choosing of last year's committee. This year's committee is making a concerted effort to improve Union's film program for next term. The schedule will be out bdore the end of the term and I think students will be surprised by the amount of recent quality films as well as \cult\ selections (they'll be on Tuesday night again) that have been planned. The financial plight of the Film Committee is not a lone venture, the entire Tax Committee with its $150,000 treasury chest is having trouble financing the plethora of student activities that it must support. $2, I 00' is over one percent of the entire student tax treasury. It is more than the entire budget of several clubs. The Film Committee would easily run in the black and get better and more recent films if it had an extra : $2,100. $2,100 is the amount of money that the school is extorting from the Film Committee. The means of extortion is simple. The College charges the Film Committee for the use of lush, comfortable SS 016. Most everyone has been witness to the superb screen, sound, and projection facilities in the Social Science Auditorium. For every two hours of SSOI6 usage, the film Committee must pay the school seven dollars. The math is simple, 7 or S showings a weekend, 2 or 3 on Tuesdays, 10 total showings a week, I 0 weeks a term. 700 dollars a term, $2100 a year. Gone. from the students' pockets into college coffers. This arrangement can be disputed on several grounds. The first is principle, how can the - ~- • -0 •·• . let~s-,~et -going ··ro the Editur~: I w.Ould . like to .take this ,. oppqrtunity to tti<ink those nteJ;nb!!.rS qf the campus in at~ridance at Saturday ni~!lt's hockey game. As you kn<:~w, the proceeds of that game (as well as a forthcoming game) are going to support the Men's Glee Club's proposed concert tour of Venezuela. I realize that there are a great many people who are concerned with Union's name and image. Working for this benefit has allowed me the. opportunity to appreciate many of these people to a greater degree. The first would be the people pn:viously mentioned; those peorlc who were willing to pay the $2.00 donation we were a~king lor. and then came out to 'h\'' tht•Jr ..,uprort for tht !!lc,· duh .md th,· hn..:kt.:} · I h,· ,_._..,nd '.\ntd,! m,·!udc· till_\ lh\t)j'\,\ .~IJ .. 1\.tll! , .. _,_.,. i!!l '' h.>,d c•> . .,,;l,'\!'l.ict.\ ,lfhl .!:,· lllliliit.! 'tp '.\<lil\ t>>l 11 li .till \' i>t•p':' ·:;.,: n .'Ill lid II\ coUege charge a student activity ought to be given first crack at for a faci.hty. particularly in such projecting films. This would cut an expensive manner'! !he $2,100 down on cost. FinaUy, if aH else has in no small way weakened the fai•ls they ought to at least be quality ol the him Committee's entitled to reaso11able service. offerings. It eats up over 25 Item; the projectionist for the percent of their budget. 7:00 Saturday night showing has Ililis means that student tax been late or hasn't shown up three money is merely being funneled times this I term! Despite requests into the college budget. Tuition, for her dismissal by the room. and board are fees lor the Committee, nothing has been college budget to absorb. Student done. Projectionists ought to be tax money ought to strictly go paid, particularly grant-in-aids. for student usage. but not by stl!ldent tax. The money swpposedly goes to Competency, though. ought to be main~enance ol facilities and a requi:rement. payment for projectionists In sh~rt .. ~.100 dollars may n~t (usually gra11t-in-aids.) First of see~ sigmflcant. However, II all, the facil,ities from screen to you re- displeased m any way by the speaker to projection a.re quite film program next time you're poor, secondlv.. student tax squi.r~ing and sweating. in SSO_I6, should not be responsible for strammg to hear a frlm be~ng financial aid. thirdly, the shown on two screens, thmk members of the 1-ilrn Committee about the $2,100 ripoff. .·. this group ~tr ·. iridu:4e every person on tlits i::ampus.) · I will use Coach Harkness as art example Of these people not because he is any d~fferent t~an any of the others included b~re,. but because he · seems , t'ii:&re q~i¢ctfy involved in· this case. Working with CoacH Hatkne'Ss as t have in the past \'eek r · have gained · an immense respect for him and his staff. Without bringing the actual hockey program into consideration, I believe that we owe Coach Harkness and all the people like him a great deal of thanks. They are the people who are willing to carry the ball when we let it drop. and more rimes than not are little appreciated for it. I believe the Union College Men's Glet:- Club is trying to become a member of this second group. ·1 hey have an opporlllnity to bring a gre:t:t deal ol tame to t!Hs school, and n.:cd hut ~upport (tnoral a.., \\ell a~ ill1dllCJalllo dn 'll. It ~ ... lor tht, tt:d'<>l~ tli;tt I <~Pf1<:al In the catnpw. nlllllllllllll\. lin, '-.a111:d;~o. • ·••\ ,;n!lwt ;:'ll .•. t! X.ill) J1 111. til,· \1t:ll·, t •IL-L· ( 111h \\ Ji, PI<' .(.\ ,1 ' -.· -~.--: :. conceit Itt Merrtotiid Chapel, and fof th-ose still around. there wm be a second benefit intra-squad game November 21, I would like to ask your supp()tntt; these affairs. tf your t<l!.stes do not lie in this area. l urge you to go out and become involved in some other area of this campus. I hope that we can eliminate the thitd group of the community (as yet unmentioned}, those who find it easy to complain, yet remain apathetic to the attempts that are. made. Sincerely, Don Dennis '78 advising cJo Tbt> Editors Dear Fatuity Adviser, Well. it's tl1at t1me of year again-1 must pick my C<lur~c' lor next term. and you perfunctorily 'ign m~ course Ji..,t It '-t'l\l1h II k~ an a\\lllll\\ Cl!t-:rnd··drtc·d r1 Ol\L\'-'1, l he· '1~11 tl!l \ l\Ul d,\ll !1.1' : .. ,;, \\ltt<:h \Ill! h.t·.r 'L'1 .h.d,· .t•l'lill~. )1,t, :-..HH.\ llJ\;.:f!·t pi••\ tdnl fll<llll lw;:t' I thd:r·: by The W organi1ati< Union Oiscussim faculty pr1 goals and are unclt people at what it's does. On Caucus sa commum< and the c they don'1 want. Questio effectiven< filled out both m: addition. the Cauc Gem Mit, The questione for the women's response When as were und' of a We by Presidt four cam discuss tl tenure 1 proposed appointe, commit~! voting ri the Corr and othe are disct The ! this co campus groups and stu< has repr~ making Each gr well a

CONCORDIENSIS, Wednesday, Nov. 17, 1976 Page 11 The End.of the World by [)avid Moskowitz ''Ailrtght class, open your tape- disc recorders to A.merican Histcny: Pre-Barbarianism in the 20th Century. Let's see what we can learn about this period, the l'ast era ·of so-called civil'izati~m before the New Dark Ages arrived.\ Olam Uartek's eyes glanced impatiently at rhe ceil-ing. Who the hell wanted to learn about ancient history, anyway? The New Dark Ages were long dead and bmied. Why worry about therh'! Everyone else in th~ dass had already-begun to project the day's lesson-spools on their ~-0 viewers so Olam dejectedly reached into his own file for the tape labelled \Eyewitness Accou.nt·l976 A.D.;' Pushing the 'run' button wit·h visible reluctance, Olam muttered \Fooey on the 20th Century.\ The handwritten letter, now considered by historians the last remnant ot: the dying American civilizaction, appeared slowly on the video screen: \Wednesday. November 18, 1976, \Dear M.om, ln 1976, the world ended! At least thafs the way it seems up h.ere in Schenectady sometimes ... \ ( .. Schenectady,\ said the teacher, ''which means 'Neckties for Sale', was famous as the· cultural center of the Americas·. People used to travel for many hours to VIsit the sights there. Why, the 'White Castle Complex' was considered the ; apex of American economic thought and philosophy ... \) \ ... Anyway Mom, I really am getting a little worried about the world's conditions. Yesterday on the radio they told me that a song called ''Disco Duek\was the most popular song in the country. In this; song, 'a' guy·•turns•1ntd a duck' right in the middle of a:dance. He • starts growing wings and a beak and starts quacking right there on the goddam dance ·noor. , I was ready to hear Frank Perdue or somebody tackle the damned animal and measure his wing span or something. Well, the duck sounds sorr of-like Donald Duck and says things like \shake your tailfeathers -and \get down, mama\· (he probably meant ~·get do\Vn and roost on these eggs'' or something like that). That's the whole song. My sociology professor told me that the song would .be pointed to in a thousand years as the last, dying gasp of Western Civilization,..\ ('\Self-awareness of decline,\ came' the voice of the teacher,\ is the best indicator of the actuality of the dedine. For your inlbrmation, class, a 'dJ.lck' is' believed to have been a biped, non~human flying machine that was constr·ucted by an organization ,caned McDonneli- Ducklass Aircraft during one 0f the wars that recurred during this period ... Frank Perdue is bel'ieved to be a mechanic by some; others insist he was an advanced-model 'duck' or something ... there is ~lso a lingering insistence that 'duck' was used as ;;orne kind of Warning for humans in p.eril...'') \Today on the tube, rna, we heard about a guy out in Utah who is trying desperately to get himself shot, but the authorities insist on keeping the guy alive. It sounds sort of hke those old Keystone Kops movies where some bum would try desperately to get himself arrested so as to enjoy the comforts of jail, but co11ld never manage it. The guy doesn't wind up in jail until he doesn't try at aiL This looney out in Utah must know something about the future that we don't know, to want to get out ·of the picture that badly ... \ (\Several parts of this portion of the text are very obscure today,\ said the teacher. \For instance, the reference to 'Keystone Kops.' There is some speculation that these 'Kops' were known more formally as 'Campus Policemen,' who diligently patrolled the coHege campuses of the day. 'College~; by the way, were institutions of higher edu~ation :which had histories of their own:· which often resembled roller-coasters- in outline. The w.r.iter .of our test attended one of these schools, ,called 'Union' cotlege. Thi.s institution had entered a period of strong econpmic and popular recovery at the time of the writing of our tex.t, mostly because of . a building known as Achilles Rink. This recovery continued for several years before its abrupt end, when an . irate group of Drama majors detonated a nuclear Qevice under ' \.. . , S:i~~~t.ff~> · ··J~rtatban L.·he'vin\'lDP~t.;ein• · · r~:~·i~\~!!~!!1:!'::;,~;.~::~iilQ1i ,, -.-.•.'e ...... ~.r ... •._ .• , s., ..•.. ,'. a.· ....... elte.ers. \·.·· College,afij:.a .. ~;U¢k~y-.-. fan,,, 1 ... •· ~· fe~r~~at .;.t!J')e·· b~i:t~~haY.in~. 0 t' t\ ior eheerleadf\1~5 fresnmen · ou · ~~w · vann y. hockey team is both j.uvenile and absurd. lt infringes upon one's human right!! and help{'; in tmly making an .ass out of the per:- on wearing the ridiculoU!', haircut lf this hq\\Lt.ha ving is Hlp posed· to To the Edit-ors: As au a\id ~pcctator o!' Union College football I too haw hcefl di:.appuinted \\ith the atnllU~t of ~pirit at t'hc football gamc'l'S. lluWc>l>!r. I !itrongl) ~.:oim'llCtld the the struciure in the year 1984.,.\) \A couple of weeks ago, mom, the Governor of Connecticu1 came to speak here at the Chapel. She was speaking on behalf of Jiinmy Carter who - Oh! I for.got to tell you·! - went here twenty years .ago. Anyway, only about twenty kids showed up to hear her, which is double the number who showed up to hear political columnist Garry Wills speak and about one-twentieth the number who showed up to hea.r duck-impersonator Md Blanc speak. We had a porno festival in our dorm basement the other day and about 150 k.ids shgwed up to watch ... to watch people ... to watch people communicate, rna! It seems to m.e that there is a definite pattern of interests of the kids who go here ... \ (\This section,\ interrupted the teacher, \is far easier to interpret .. 'Jimmy Carter' was known primarily as an attraction in !he era's pornographic magazines. The implication is clear that he was a feature in one of the .'movies' (video projections without 3-D properties) that is mentioned. Other references seem to infer that students at .the college 'lust in their hearts' for the aforementioned 'duck' mechanisms .. .it is not known what the expression 'Garry Wills' means ... \) . \Lastly rna. \I heard that in Buffalo, if you want, they will deliver your pizza to you 'by helicopter. Sounds ominous to me .. ,Well, tnam, take it easy- and remember, it's only eight years to 1984! Your son, David\ (\Pizza said th( teacher, \is believed to .rd,:r to the document that students received after completing fo-ur years of attendance at the 'college of their choice.' Helicopters were\). The voice stopped . l\hank God. thought Olam. thought this class would never end. It's a· good thing that Teacher's batteries finally reache<l their expiration point. .. l've gotta relax with a swim after all tnis depressing 20th Century stuff. And with a preening of ' feathers. a polishing of the beak, and one exhausted 'quack\ he slid quietly into the pool's water. tc/o· the EdittJts! Dear Mr. Flanagan! in response to tlre recent ''anti-- cheerleadmg\ rnai! I wm:.tld like to darilv the status and motivation hdlit1d tile Union C()llege Coptinued. ·on Page 18 about stu~ent potential ... PRESI.DENT'S DES.K In a conversation last week- with tne eaifors of Concordiensis, 1 was told that the prospects for change l!t Union College, especially ·change initiated by students, were dubious within the present governance system. Look, they said, at what had happened to the non-academic tr:anscript the week before. A rnajor proposal two years old, they pointed out, had been approved \i~ principle\ ~y t~e College Senate last spring, only to be dismembered m Its implementation by the Senate. Similarly, they were concered about the fate of student proposals of last spring to improve skills of Union students in communicating the English language and to widen student pa·~:ticipation in the tenure and appointment process. I can well understand some of their frustrations. Even the President (especially the President'?) is not able to move the Col:lege at will in the directions that his experience and judgment may dictate. Faculty members, too, often feel frustration that their ideas for change and: :improvement do not find ready support from their colleagues or th~ administration. It is easier, one wag has~ suggested, to move a cemetery than to move a college, especially in educational matters. But I would suggest that the _agenda of this College has been shaped to a considerable degree by t_!le concerns of students-a_nd that this will continue. The ·Concept that students are not passive consumers of knowledge and experience, but are expected to contribute in important ways to the life of the College, is now widely accepted across the Union campus. It is already a significant hallmark of a Union education, as .evidenced by the attitude of the new students we are attracting, and no Senate vote or critical comments are gQing to change that. The quotation from a former Athletic Director at Union. that athletes contribute more as alumni because they contribute more as students is now true of a growing proportion of others in our student body. \You make the College what it is,\ I said as a new President in 1974 to students who are now juniors and since then you have all been proving that .. the making of this college is unfinished business and you can play a part in making it the kind ofplace you want it to be.\ Nor is the student action of last spring in raising before the Senate the importance of clear expression in writing and speaking a dead issue. On the contrary. you are -in front of the College in the sense of urgency you feel about redirecting our progt'am in general education. While many in the faculty and administration urge the importance of deliberateness and caution, you know tliat Y«.li.!r education is coming to an end and that it is late for some to· !mister those common learnings of clear expression, critical thought,· scientific method, understanding of society, and an appreciation of literature and the arts that a~:e the mark of a comprehensive education. We must all continue to keep this crucially significant issue high on the agenda of the College. In other areas the College has been responsive if not always acquiescent to student concerns. The tenure and reappointment matters pressed by students last &pring are now in the hands of faculty and student trustees who are nearing recommendations aimed at improved understanding and validation of College procedures. Long-standing student concerns about an adequate campus center have been dealt with forcefully in the past year in Carnegie Hall. Questions of campus recreation, security, and treatment of women. and minorities have been constantly on the College's agenda. Students, I would agree strongly, do count at Union College. They are n0t · always right, any more than faculty members or administrators, but they are listened to and they do make an important difference. Students are a major resource of this college and will not be treated merely as consumers so long as I am President. qnlon college • .J concor01ens15 Editors-in-chief. .. .. howie lax. mike rotono_1 News editors.......... .. ..................................................... matt brief Contributing .editor .................................. ................... : glenn wolf son Features eaitor .......................................................... cindy sheppard Culture editor .......................................... marshall wisoff, joe millet Sports editors .......................................................... charlie flanagan debbie poletto, allyne price Copy edito.r ................................................................. susan finkelstein Business manager; .................. barbara stern, marla lux harri; hal pert Classifieds editor. .............................. martha rubenstein .todd miller Subscriptiom editor ..................................................... harri; halpert Layout editor, ' ........................ joe cappucio; nancy murphy Photography editor .......... , ........................................... nch guard1an ·Photo Staff ............................ .'julie secger, mike kolesa cary'feverman steve grill, al tannenbaum, mitch mind lin jon flescher, fred abbott, joe millett, tony romanaui An editor ................................. ~ ..................................... lester \\Ci'~ Poetry editor........................................ delanne ·stage man Staff 1h1~ ~~~ue............... ............... ' shcrly IJri'>er. brad kessler, marJone kuhn, karen 'P·\ >UC ekstrom. eileen thomas. nanq lcl~m~n. amy pcrhn. ann marlo\\ ttl. IJS<~ h.11 on Calendar ........... rid1 hc11:tkc' ('ONCORDIENSIS i~ publi•hed e•er) Wednesda) b) tl\(· ~tudenl bod) of l'nion College. Old f;)m Hall, ~chcn~eiatl), Nev1 York.; lu \hicl1 Pu,tal hnm' .\57'1 an• diwdo·.l Publications Office: Thr Je.,hh W urld l'ublicatiun,, 416 '-moth ~t., Schenectady, !'<. \. 12.105 t.n0-5483). Eniered in the Scheneclnd) Post Office '\ \ecund tl:t\'> \hiller. \ub~cnptoon Rate JS cents per cop~. $10. a ~ear delivered anp•hcre m the United States.

CONCORDIENS/S, Wednesday, Nov. 17, 1976 Page 11 The End of the World by David Moskowitz \Al:hright class, open your tape- disc recorders to American 1-listory: Pre-Barbarianism in the 20th Century. Let's sec wl:lat we can learn about this penod, the last era ol so-calkd civi,li1ation before the ~~cw Dark Ages arrived.\ Olarn (iartek's eyes glanced impatiently at the ceihng. Who the hdl wanted to lcanil about ancient history, anyway? lhe New Dark Ages were long dead aAd buried. Why worry about them'! Everyone else iR the class had already begun to project the day's lesson-spools on their 3-D viewers so Olam dejectedly reached i~nto hi·s own file for the tape labelled \Eyewitness Account-1976 A.D.\ Pushing the 'nm' buHon with visible reluctance. Olarn muttered \Foocy oH the 20th Century.\ The handwritten letter. now coAsidered bv historians the last remnant of the dying American civilization, appeared slowly on the video screen: \Wednesday. November l~. 1976. \Dear Mom. In 1976, the world ended! At least that's the way it seems up here in Schenectady sometimes ... \ (\Schenectady said the teacher. \wl>!ich means 'Neckties for Sale', was famous as the cuHural center ol tli!e Americas. People used to travel for many hours to Visit the sights there. Why, the 'White Castle Complex' was considered the apex of American economic thought and philosophy ... \) \ ... Anyway Mom, I really am getting a little worried about the world's conditions. Yesterday on the radio they told me ~hat a song called \Disco Duck\ was the most popular song in the country. In this song. a guy turns into a duck right in the middle of a dance. He • starts growing wings and a beak and starts quacking right there on the goddam dance ·noor. I was ready to hear Frank Perdue or somebody tackle the damned animal and measure his wing span or something. Well, the duck sounds sort of like Oonald Duck and says things like \'shake your tailfeathers -and '\get down, mama\ (he probably meant \get do\.vn and roost on these eggs\ or mean to interrupt your important paperwork with my insignificant dilemmas. I always thought that you were there, at least in part, for niy benefit. Am I wrong? l've stopped by yuur office a few times rhis term to say heUo and to let you kMW what I've been up to. Each time you smiled and said, \That's nice,\ but you still haven~t made any .effort to know me, much Jess my name. They told me when I was a Freshman to have a good. rapport with my adviser, and I'm trying to do my part. Won't you try, too?'? Sincerely, Name withheld upon requet.1 elose shave To the Editors: As a student CJf Union College and a hockey fan, I let.:l that the heado;having ol treshmen on the var~1ty hockey team 1:-. hut h Jll\cnile .:ml <th,urd It mlnng~·, ur\n 'lllt'\ hut1Jd!l ll;!ilt, :md hdJ\ Ill <lflh fll,!klllt' <Ill ~I''• <'II\ ,,f il:·: r,., \\' ._., ,.,, 1111~ :h,· rh1lll1~tl\i' htt:hU~ ll ~h':-.. h-_ad .... ILt\ iii~ , .... --~·:r't'' 1 ~ ... d · .. something like that). That's the whole song. My sociology professor told me that the song would be pointed to in a thousand years as the last, dying gasp of Western Civi(,ization ... \ (\SeU-awareness of decline,\ came the voice of the teacher,\ is the best indicator of the actuality of the decline. For your information, class, a 'dwck' is· believed to have been a biped, non-human llying machine that was constructed by an organi1ation called McDonneU- Ducklass Aircralt during one of the wars that recurred during this period ... Frank Perdue is believed to be a mechanic by some; others i11sist he was an advanced-model 'duck' or something ... there is also a liAgering insistence that 'duck' was used as some kind of warning for humans in peril. .. \) \Today on the tube, rna, we heard about a guy out in Utal:l who is trying desperately to get himself shot, but the authorities insist on keeping the guy alive. It sounds sort of like those old Keystone Kops movies where some bum would try desperately to get himself arrested so as to enjoy the comforts of jail, but could never manage it. The guy doesn't wind up in jail until he doesn't trv at all. This looney out in Utah ·must know something about the future that we don't know, to want to get out of the picture that badly ... \ (\Several parts of this .portion of the text are very ob.-;cure today.\ said the teacher. \For instance, the reference to 'Keystone Kops.' There is some speculatioR that these 'Kops' were known more formally as 'Campus Policemen.' who diligently patrolled the college campuses of the day. 'Colleges,' by the way, were institutions of higher education which had histories of their own, which often resembled roller-coasters in outline. The writer of our test attended one of these schools, called 'Union' college. This institutioR had entered a period of strong economic and popular recovery at the time of the writing of our text, mostly because of a building known as Achilles Rink. This recovery continued for several years before its abrupt end, when an irate group of Drama majors detonated a nuclear device under LETTERS signify membership on the team or serve as initiation to the team, then it is successful. But, I have always thought that team spirit means dedication and loyalty to the sport and the teammates, I am not abie to see how shaving arrows and bulls-eyes out of the hair on one's head affects a players attitude towat'd the game or the team. However. I am able to understand how it might degrade his personal pride. Finally, 1 would commend those players(s) who stood up for what they truly believed was. right and were able to look in the mirror without crying. Sincerely Jonathan L Levin-Epstein j .. ~rs and •~h4•fl'r~ fG.~~ lf\IU~~t~P~oJ{Il'~U.i~~~t5•~ Eo tht• I· ditor-.: \·, .m ,,\ 1d ,r,·, ~.,~ .. , ,,, t nu>n ( t>ll·.Tc' f,•ttlha:: I k<> 11,\\c\' bo:c-1.1 d;...,,q)f\'ll1Hi·_··-~ \\):~~ tln· .. ~.il~tlt.:: td \'Il 1111 ·I: : llt' ! \1, •l b,i I! ,i',.! I :l''- ILl\\,_,_·~,·, ! ··I~:•: i ,', l..lll!\:lh'll 1 .! t!L. the structure iR the year 19~4 ... \) \A coupk ul weeks ago, mom, the Governor o1 Connecticut came to speak here at the Chapel. She was speaking on behalf of .Ji.mmy Carter v.ho Oh! I forgot to tell you! went here twenty years ago. Anyway, only about twenty k.ids showed up to hear her, which i' double the number who shovo.ed up to hear poli,tical colrunHHSt (iarry Wilb speak and about one-twentieth the number who showed up to hear duck-ivnpersonator Md Blanc speak. We had a porno testi\al in our dorm basement the other day and about 150 kid~ showed up to watch ... to watch people ... to \latch people communicate. ma! It st:cms to me that there is a definite pattern of interests ol the kids who go here ... \ (\This section,\ interrupted the teacher, \is far e;:asier to interpret. 'Jimmy Carter' was known primar.ily as an a ttractioH in the era's pornographic magazines. The impl,ication is clear that he was a feature in one of the 'movies (video projections without 3-D properties) that is mentioned. Other references seem to infer that students at the college 'lust in their hearts for the aforementioned 'duck' mecha11isms ... it is not known what the expression 'Garry Wills' means ... \) \Lastly. rna. l heard that in Buffalo, i·t you want, they will deliver your pina to you by helicopter. Sounds ominous to me ... Well, mom. take it easy and remember, it's only eight years to l9X4! Your ~on. David\ (\Pizza said th• teacher, \is believed to n::~·~ ~v the document that students received after completing four years ot attendance at the 'college of their choice.' Helicopters were\) I he voice stopped . I hank God, thought Olam. thought this class would never end. it's a gDod thing that I eacher's batteries finally reached their expiration point. .. l've gotta relax with a swim alter all this depressing 20th Century stuff. And with a preening of ' leathers. a polishing of the beak. and one exhausted 'quack', he slid quietly into the pool's water. efforts of the cheerleaders. Cheerleading must be a terribly frustrating experience when a crowd is unresponsive to their efforts. I was Quite sho¢ked at Charlie Flanagan's letter blaming the cheerleaders for the \quietness\ of the crowd at . the Middlebury game. This point of view is not only absurd, but only confirms the fact that Union is in dire need of much enthusiasm. Using the ¢heerleaders as a scapegoat is cert<'tinly no excuse. Although I did not attend the Hamilton game, I was informed that even in the free7ing weather, and after Charlie's ungracious letter, the cheerleaders still helped to cheer our team Dn to victory. H that isn't spirit, l don't know what is. Keep up the good work. girls. Sincerely, Lizanne Holston '78 ,cf o the Editors: Dear :\-lr. Flana~an: In r~'Jhlll'-C to lh.: IL'cl:nt \antt- dl•:clicadllll.! .. mail I \\IH.tld [d,L It> ti.tr•!\ the '-I;JIII.., ;tl!d llltlii\:Jlillll r-..-tltth! 1h~.· 1 n1111! ( 1): \'[ 1 , altout siJt~ent pc.ten·tial ••• In a conversation last weef with ·inc ed'1iois ot Concordiensis, I was told that the prospects for change ~t L nion College. especially change ini'iia~ed by students, were dubiow~ within the present govemance system. Look, the) said, at what had happened to the non -academic tra11script the week before. A major proposal two years old, they pointed out, had heen approved \in principle\ by the College Senate last spring, only to be dismembered in its imp lernmtwtion by the Senate. Similarly, they were conccred about the fate of studen.t propmab of last spring to improve skills of Union studen bin communicating the English language and to widen student participation in the tenure and appointment process. I can weN t:mderstand some of their frustrations. Even the President (esj>ecially the President'!) is not able to move the College at will in the directions that his experience and judgment may dictate. Faculty members. too, often feel frustration that their ideas for change and improvement do not find ready support from their colleagues or the adminislration. It is easier, one wag has. suggested, to move a cenetery tham to move a college, especially in educational matters. &ut l would suggest that the _agenda of this College has been shaped to a considerable degree by tpe concerns of students and that this will continue. The concept that students are not passive consumers of knowledge and experience, but are expected to con tribute in important ways to the life of the College, is now widely accepted across the Union campus. It is already a significant hallmark of a Union education, as evidenced by the attitude of the new stude11 ts we are attracting, and no Senate vote or critical comments are going to change that. The 4uotation from a former Athletic Director at Union, that athletes contribute more as alumni because they contribute more as students is now true of a growing proportion of oihers in our student body. \You make the College what it is,\ l said as a new President in 1974 to students who are now juniors and since then you have all been proving that \the making of this college is tLnfinished business and you can play a part in making it the kind of place you want it to be.\ ~er is the student action of last spring in raising before the Senate the importance of clear expression in writing and speaking a dead isSlle, On the contrary, you are in front of the College in the sense of urgency you feel about redirecting our program in general education. While many in the faculty and administration urge the importance of deli berate ness and caution, you know that your education is coming to an end 1:wd that it is late for some to master those common learnings of clear expression, critical thought, scientific method, understanding of society, and an appreciation of literature and the arts that a&e the mark of a comprehensive education. We must all con tin uc to keep this crucially significant issue high on the agenda of the College. In other areas the College has been responsive if not always acquiescent to student concerns. The tenure and reappointment rna ttcrs pressed by students last spring are now in the hands of faculty and student trustees who are nearing recommendations aimed at impmvcd understanding and validation of College procedures. Long-standing student concerns about an adequate campus center have been dealt with forcefully in the past year in Carnegie Hall. Questions of campus recreation, security, and treatment of women. and minorities have been constantly on the College's agenda. Smdents, I would agree strongly, do count at Union College. They arc not always right, any more than faculty members or admini>trallm, but they are listened to and they do make an important ditlcrence. Students are a major resource of thi~ collegt.: and will not be treated merely as consumers so long as I am President. tlnlon col• 11 , concorotens1s Editors-m-ch1ef\ News ed 1t1>r~ ..... . ho11u; lax. mtkc rntont11 ..................... mall bnel Contnbutmg edllor. ...................................... \............ . glenn l'.nlbon JCeatures edttor ..................... \ ......................... \ .. ~md) 'hcppard Culture editor. . \ .. marshall wisoff. 10e mtllet Spor1s editor' (.'opv ed ttor . Bu,ine'~ manager' Cla~>~lled1 edJI<H .. Sub!>crtpi!Dn' editor Layout cdttor. Photograph~ editor ..... . ........ ,., ........... \ ..... .charlie tlanagan debb1e polettu, all! ne pnce . barbara 1tcrn. marla lu~ hdrrl' hdlpell ma11ha ruben,tem .todd miller .................... , ............... , ... harm halpcrt ..... , .... J<>e cappucw, nanc} murph! . ... .. ...... ..nch guard1an Photo ~1.111. julie seeger, mike ko!esa cary 'feverman steve grifi, al tannenbaum, milch mindlm jon flescher, fred abbott, joe millett, tony romanazz1 Art cdllnr. Pnetry l'c.il1tH. Stall th~> '\ut: k ... lt.'l \\.~'! ....... dclanm· ,t,J~rnl.ln • ,!-Jeri\ 1.111-<c·t. hrad ~c,..,lcr. m.HJt•IH.' kPhn. h..trt'll \i'.i:. .. w.: ck-.UPrn. l..'lk~l'll thtlflM\~. n\llh.:~ trlt~1;,dt .till\ Pt'l llll .. wn m.Hlt,V..tlt. '''·' •\.1 • : '\ l!'i ~~ I \IUdent hnd\ uf I wtul ( •llh.·l!l'. 01~1 ( .Hn flu II. ~,.•dtc t·~ 1 1 • 11 1 ~ ~ \e-V> \uri.., '\ V>hl,l' J',o·tJJl i \\'\ 1\-\\ '\' d1:. '· .: j f J~uhhf~~t1un' Offi' th, J, 1\hh \\ Pthl i'uhhrllltnth. Ht -...,. ,,, 1 1 't .. ~dif'Ul''flh.h. '\\ T:tn ... f\ .. ,t3•4X\1 fntt·ttat 11 ·~~ i1 '-lrhrlhd,,d, Po-..t (),th.t ,., -..,.t,••lld (!a._ ... \lHihr \\'uh'Ht!!'!~··ll ~~ l Huh -~ rl.'nh pn <• I\· '>\II ' '\\ d• \\'\''I •n•\l\\ \ •In , .. L~::·~~..::_;~ 1 .. - ........ :--~:.--~~-~:<~-::=:--=- :~--\-:=:;:.:::-~.::;::::\~ ,i

Page 12 CONCORDIENSIS, Wednesday, Nov. 17, 1976 Committee Studies Calendar Fund Committee by ERIC LEVINE and visit their old teachers. It's a regular carnival. The vacation · calendar is just one of a few It's almost Thanksgiving! Time disadvantages of the trimester to go home and see your friends system. and relatives. But what happens The calendar has always been a when you go home for Winter topic of controversy at Union. Recess? Where is everyone? Consequently, on M,ay tw~ntieth TheY,'re all at school of course. of this past year the Senate voted All except the Union College .. to set up a committee to student. investigate thedetails of a semester From December tenth .until system, to study its costs and its January third we are home taking benefits and to recommend a it easy. Our fr~ends come home process of implementation.\ about two weeks later and go There were three basic reasons for back about two weeks later. So the suggestion of forming the what do we do for those first two committee: · weeks? The first couple of days · I) \To find a calendar that you just sit back, relax and catch would begin somewhere around up on some much needed sleep. Labor Day and end sometime For some freshmen the big thing around the middle of May.\ is to go back to the high school 2) \Produce a calendar that 'J:\here ISll differen~e!t! PREPARE. FOR: MCAT• DAT•LSAT• SAT GRE • GMAT • OCATe CPAT e VAT Over 38 years of ~xperience and success. Small classes. Voluminous home study matenals. Courses that are constantly updated. Centers open days and weekends all year. Complete tape facilities for review of. class lessons .and for use of supplementary materials. Make-ups for m1ssed lessons at our centers. ECFMG • FLEX NAT'l MEDICAL & DENTAL BOARDS Flexible Programs & Hours Our broad range of programs provtdes an umbrella of testing ·know- how that enables us to offer lhe best preparation available further Improving the mdividual course·you·ve selected ' Bklyn. 212-336-5300 Manhattan 212-683-5005 Lcng Island 516-538-4555 New Jersey 201·846-2862 1 ~-tl - MPIIN. ! DUCATIQNAL CENTER L TO 1675 E 1.6 St Bklyn NV 11229 TEST PREPARATION SPECIAliSTS SINCE f938 Oulstde NY State Only ~:.~~rae 800·221-9840 Centors\ Map US C.ileO IN CONCERT AND BEYOND JOHN PAULJONES · ROBERT PLANT· JIMMY PAGE· JOHN BONHAM CONCERT SEQUENCES FILMED Ar ~ADISON SQUARE GARDe I\ SOUNDTRACK ALBUM AVAILABLE ON SWAN SONG RECORDS AND TAPES S7ArtrS ;=!(JDAY iEXCt..UStvt.: $1{t>W/Nfr would minimize academ1c pressure wid1out lowering academic expectations.\ 3) \The maximization of plant and its facilities.\ The Provost does not think that a change would make much of a difference to either the faculty or the administration. However, Willard Entema:n points out that there may not be sufficient lab facilities under the semester .system. This could mean that Saturday classes ·would be imposed. At this point the Provost is unable to predict the monetary increase, if any, that the semester system would bring about. The Provost's major concern is \that most people's minds are made up already ..•. and most will vote against a semeste~ calendar.\ He predicted that the semester system will be voted down by the same margin as wa·s the non- academic transcript \The purpose of the committee is to determine what the impact of a semester would be, including the advantag.es and disadvantages.\ The'se thoughts of Professor Phaup are. very similar to the original Senate Committee proposal. Some advantages of the semester system as cited by Economics Professor Phaup were that it becomes easier to find a job, vacations would coincide with other schools, it would benefit athletics, and it would be less complicated to cross-register at otheF institutions. Another advantage would be a fourteen to FASYGOIN' BANANA fifteen week lab' program instead· of the present ten. However, as previously pointed out by the Provost, the lab facilities may not be .sufficient and s·aturday and evening classes would have to :be instituted. Professor . Phaup's prediction'!\(lt's) too early to say if a change wiU come about.\ The professor says he h!ls no inclinCJtion as to which program he would prefer. The most important point made by Ptofesssor Wilson is that the school should try to upgrade its smmmer program and leave the calendar alone. The Professor's opinion is that a change would mean a great deal of work for the faculty and \no pay-off .. . none whatsoever.\ Professor Wilson goes on to say that ••everyone is happy to start late\ (in reference to the fall term), but no one is happy to end late in the spring. The professor, in talking to other professors, got the impression that there is no enthusiasm for a calendar change amongst the faculty. When the committee reports theil\ findings, a vote will he taken. Hopefully the voting will be· based on the facts as presented by the Committee and not by preconceptions on the part of either the faculty or the stud.ent. The most important consideration should not be how much paper work the Taculty or administration will encounter, but what will benefit the student body at Union College.' · On Monday, November 15, members of the newly created· Student Activities Fund Raising . Committee met for the first time. This committee has four basic purposes. One, there are an increasing number of committees on tl)e Union campus wbich need funding. Two,· we must rebuild a depleted surp'lus so that there will be enough funding for all of the committees. Third, we are faced with the menace of ever- increasing expenses. Finally, we need to find activities that will raise funds as well as provide entertainment for the Union community. · The .goal of the Fund Raising Committee is to provide an a(lernate way of funding part of student activities. Some suggestions were put forth during the committee meeting. One idea is to institute a Union College Lottery. While this idea appears to be feasible, we still mu·st investigate its leg~lity. Other ideas include: holding a charity cabaret, holding a Carnival Day, having a bake sale, having a paste~ sale, and selling .candies and popcorn. We need more ideas! What can you thnk of that would provide both entertainment to the college community and also would help us raise funds which are vital to the eontin.uance of most cammittees'! Submit your suggestions to Mrs. Marra in the Student Activities room, Carnegie Hall. eeds '1 39 MAIN ST., BALLSTON LAKE, N.Y. 12019 Phone (518) 399•4195 Clothing • Gifts • Cards · One yood .?Wan becoming. a Christian Brother THIS YEAR ' CAN HELP MANY PEOPLE IN FUTURE YEARS (THE CHRISTiAN BR.OTHERS ARE A GROUP OF CATHOLIC RELIGIOUS BROTHERS WHO SPECIALIZE IN DIFFERENT FORMS OF EDUCATION) For More Details, Write: BROTHER STEPHEN FSC I DE LA SALLE ROAD ALBANY, N.Y. 12208 an~ The.re \ choices a ~atisfyi11g Saga coo your!lelf, tbere.wer~ the thlit;e. Now st choice~ 1 is located i>ut stu.det Davidson program. Qlatt·Ko.:; nave to be - to enj' food tl:lat Dif1ner~ prepa·red l,..iebson,~ Lunches ... W.eln~t#n W1ll! the .I .. · •• , .• f• ., . Mon. ·Tues.'· Wed.· Thurs.· FrL. Mon. . Tues.· Wed. Thurs. Fri. Beside meal inc choice of desserts il It is no ··N TYP • Rep' • The! '\P; Re 433 Lit .,, ,·. T

CONCORDIJJNSJS) Wednesday, Nov~ 'tt.1P76 . Page 13 Davidson Co-op: an Alternative to Saga II There used to .be only three camp for several summers. The choic~s a Union· student had for 'co-operative aspect of the satisfying hi~ eating habits: :le.t .ptogr.~m involves each stu~eqt in Saga cook for y0u, cook Jor .clean-up duty, about once a week. yourself, or , star,ve. Very. oftt;n, T'he w:-op's me~u offers a. wide tbere.were no d;ifferences, among variety of food, arid the diners the thrrt;e. . . . . . . . . . help i>lan the . menu. Also, if a Now students have, .a. {our.ttJ pevson must, for some reason, choice ~ the ne~ kos!ler .co•t;>p. ,(·t come late or even miss a meal, is located in the Davidson C()•op, .provi~ions will be made for that but students do riot have to live in person to eat at a more Davidspn to be part of the ·Convenient time. program. The food is $t~ictly . The .. meal..,plan includes. ten Q!a.tt. Ko.sheq. J:]ut. ont:i does not meals a week; lunch (s.erved at nave to be ·kosber or even Jewish 12:30) and dinner (served at 6:00), - to enjoy the high-quality Monday through Frida,y. The cost food that is served. · 'is $300 per term, which. happens · Dinliers in the kosher co-op a,re to be the lowest price for 'kosher prepared; by Mrs.. S!!:ndra f'?o~. jn_the Ca~ital Distrif;!t. I,..iebsen,~ a profe~sional .. cook. T~: g1v~. ~n .~dea ?f whl!t t~e Lunches are. concocted by: Bob kosher l<.1tch~n . serves,. · t~e \\:'efn~tei,n, a.' ~~ion student .who f~llo.wing, i¥ a_~. act.ual ~eny. ~f .a w11s the phief.cool} a,t ._a,. kos~r . Jwo:-w((e,k. penod: , • ' ' , I . ' : ·f :j ' .• -,I ~-~ ; . . ·' .. -~ . ' ' • I jj)\y .: ' ··: ··i LU~Clf·. DINNER ·.·.-,;._ · ·: · ·~:1•· .. i'' ··~·lHJf· .. ~·- M on. · · ·~ · ·. · Blintzes• '' · · Beef Stew · T ues: Chicken Salad 1 Soup: Salisbury Steak Wed. · Gefilte Fish ... ;~ · . Liver ancl Onions Thurs.· Cold Clits ., - Fried Fish Fri. . Pizza· ·' ~\ 1 • Stuffed Cabbage Mon. · Sa·Jami and 'Eggs. Hamburgers . Tues.· .. , :. •FrenchToast Pepper Steak Wed. Egg Salad · .· Hot Roast Beef Sand~ Thurs. ·: . · lasagna Meat Loaf · · Fri. · 1 · Tuna'Melt Turkey . : .. ' ... Head Librarian Nominees to be Reviewed The final candidates for the open librarian position, Roland F. Streit and Ronald L. Weiher,. will be on campus for a series of interviews Nov. 17-18 and Nov. 22~ 23, ·respecti-vely. In order to ·maximize community input, all of the following meetings are open and evaluation forms will be available: Thursday, November 18 9:00 - 9:45 a.m., Ruth Ann Evans, Acting Librarian 10:00 - ll, Dean Brownlee !1:15 - 12:00, Library Committee 12:00 - 1:00 p.m., Lunch - Faculty Members of Library Committee 1:15 - 2:00, Search Committee Curriculum .Vita Roland F. Streit Age: 34 Education: M.S., Library Science, University of Illinois (1973), Ph.D., Math- ematics/Computer Science, Texas Tech University Experience: 1974-present Director, Courant Library and Associate Professor, Dept. of Computer Science, New York University; 197~-74 Director, Library· and Computer Scien~e, Mary Holmes College, West Point, Mississippi; .1~72-73 Assistant Professor, Dept~ of Library Science, East Texas State University; 1972 Administrative Assi.stant, Learning Resources Center,Parklanct College, Champaign, Illinois; 1967-72 Instructor, Departments of Mathematics and Computer Science, Texas Tech University Schedule for Campus Visit of Ronald L. Weiher Monday, November 22 9:00 - 10:15 a.m., Meeting with Center I faculty - Social Science Lounge 10:30 - 11:45, Meeting with Center II faculty - Steinmetz 100 12:00 ~ 1:00 p.m., Lunch - Student membe:rs of Library Committee .·PBK D . ~~.i<t_r·.'. /l~~~_,: .. ~.r\.· ·s:,. ·.·· .· . ~~-;~. c~~~h~~ .. ~~;\:T~~~::. U~:;~~~ U I (J , _ .. , , Librarian . .. . ··•· ... ~ ·i 2:00 - 2:30, Provost Entem~.n The Union College chapter of' Wetln~sday, December· I. Any 2:45 -4:00; Meeting with Library . Pbi•Bet'a Kappa announces a new questions concerniug this. Staff- Music Room 'program providing support for program should be addressed to 4:J:.S-5: 15, Meeting with student research projects. Dean Potts or Sam Cassella .(372- Students - Music Room Requests for support· will be 3033). Tuesday, November 23 evaluated on the basis ·Of project Because of limited funds 9:00 - 9:45 a.m., Dean Brownle.e merit and personal financial need. available, requl!sts should -10:00 - 11:00, Ruth Ann Evans, The tesearch expenses need not normally not exceed fifty dollars Acting Librarian , be course-related. and in no case will funding be ll:l5 - 12:00, Library Committ~~ ·Preliminary proposals of one 'or p!~ovided beyond one hundred 12:00'- 1:00 p.m., Lunch - Facu1_ty two· paragraphs accompanied by d,(U!ars. Only expenses which members of Library Committee ·endorsement' ·from a faculty ·cannot be covered from some 1:15 • 2:00, Search Committee member should be submitted to other source will be considered. All meetings are open for any Professor Ginsberg by interested person to attend Besides the main dish, every meal includes fresh salad, and a choice of vegetables. a variety of this meal plan for winter term. If lr.!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!JI you are at all interested, call Irv The Dutch Hollow Pub announces its desserts is also available. Kaufman at 370-6627 or drop a IRST ANNUAL THANKSGIVING note in Box 2525. · · ,F ·. Curric~lum Vita Ronald L. Weiher It is not too late to sign .up for · · MAiltitlti;S: ~~~~;, ~~~ TYPIN'G ~SERVICE .. · - ~- .. ' ' • Reports. •~ ·Mitnuseripts • Thesis .; • · Resumes . . rW:lMt.For Sale I ~~ Large two family near ~~Union College. Three ~!i bedrooms ~ach Oat. Two :-:-::; !~ car garage•, . I 'Blake Realty, Inc. ~ fi 346-1264 ~?~ . <·.,~Jq~l586 /0g.<G~ B~_Q_yJQ,. The PENNY PINCHER BUFFE:F on Friday, November 19. from SiOO to 8:30. ALL YOU ,CAN EAT for only $3:95!! (children under ll_ -.-_ ~nly_ $1.9~) Featuring(''. Whole· Roasted Turkeys - Dressing_ -- Salad Bar - Peas Squash ..:... Onions - Sweet Potatoes - Whipped Potatoes - Hot Breads - Nuts - Fruits - Assorted Desserts - One Drink (beer, wine, or soft drink) ****And all for only $3.95 ALL YOU CAN EAT!! So, come on, enjoy, be there, at the biggest buffet in to'YhJ Happy. thanksgiving·! ~ ;. ' .·i . . ::~> Age: 38 Education: BA, History, University of Missouri, Kansas City (l%0); MLS, Case-Western Reserve University (l961); MBA, University of Missouri, Kansas City (1968) Experience: 1971-present Associate Librarian, Harvard Business School; 1968-71 Assistant Librarian, Harvard Business School; 1962-65 Reference Librarian, University of Missouri, Kansas City; 1961-62 , Assistant Librarian, Penn Valley Community College, Kansas City Pre-Vacation S·ale Don't Go Home Without These 5 Great Albums GET ANY ONE OF T.HESE GREAT 6.98 LIST ALBUMS .FOR ONLY 3.49EACH lncl.des I(. a. o- MyHoad RIWman (Wilbl e-w-.. ) Say:tu l<WeMe QUALITY CLOTHES-· LOW PRICES USED BUT NOT ABUSED CURRENT STYLES Hurry- Quantities Limited (NO RAI:NCHECKS) ·~ 1122 ALTAM()NT AVE. (Entrance Bernice St.) Tuesctay - Satul'da:y l 0-S Thursday'~ till 9 P•lll· 356-1571 The BIG RAT is back!! $1.25 or _ with an Old Vienna Split $1.50 Sale Ends Sunday, Nov. 21 Joan Baez GUlf Winds ROLLING RECORDS 527 Union St., Schenectady 374-3430 Op~n Mon.-Sat. 9-9, Sunday ll-6 .··

Nov. 17, 1976 Calendar Fund Committee academtc lowering of plant does not think make much to either the administr,ation. lard Enteman here may not be under the This could mean lasses would be point the to predict the if any, that the would bring major concern is minds are ... and most will calendar.\ the semester down by the was the non- of the conunittee the impact of be, including tages and thoughts of are very similar Committee advantages of the as cited by Phaup were easier to find a would coincide hoots, it would and it would be to cross-register Another be a fourteen to NANA fifteen week lah program instead · of the .present ten. However. as previously pointed out by the Provost, the lab facilities may not be suf£icient and Saturday and evening classes would have to be instituted. Professor Pt)aup\s predict.ion'!\(lt's) too early to say if a change will come about.\ The- professor says he has no inclination as to Which program he would prefer. The most impertant point made by Professsor Wilson is that the school should try to upgrade its smmmer program and leave the calendar alone. The Professor's opinion is that a change would mean a great deal of work for the faculty and \no pay-off .. . none whatsoever.\ Professor Wilson goes on to say that \everyone is happy to start late\' (in reference to the fall term). but no one is happy to end late in the spring. The professor. in talking to other professors, got the impression that there is no enthusiasm for a calendar change amongst the faculty. . When the committee reports their\' findings, a vote will he taken. Hopefully the voting will be' based on the facts as presented by the Committee and not by preconceptions on the part of either the faculty or the student. The most important consideration should not be how inuch paper work the 'faculty or administration will encounter, but what will benefit the stu.dent body at Union College.· ' On Monday, November 15, members of the newly created Student Activities Fund Raising Committee met for the first time. This committee has four basic purposes. One, there are an increasing number of committees on the Union campus which need funding. Two, we must rebuild a depleted surplus :10 that there will be enough funding for all of the committees. 'Third, we are faced with the menace Qf ever- increasing expenses. Finally, we need to find activities tha~ will raise funds as well as provide entertainment for the Union community. The goal of the Fund Raising Cortlinittee is to provide an alternate way of funding part of student actiVities. Some suggestions were put forth during the committee meeting. One idc::a is to instilute a Union College Lottery. While this idea appears to be feasible, we still must investigate its legality. Other ideas include: holding a charity cabaret, holding a Carnival Day, having a bake $ale. having a poster sale, and selling candies and popcorn. We need more ideas! Wbat can you thnk of that would provide both entertainment to the college community and also would lielp us raise funds which are vital to the continuance of most committees'! Submit your suggestions to Mrs. Marra in the Student Activities room. Carnegie Hall. ~ eeds f 39 MAIN ST., BALLSTON LAKE, N.Y. 12019 Phone (518) 399·4195 Clothing • Gifts • Cards One Qood .J\Itan becoming. a Christian Brother , THIS YEAR CAN HELP MANY PEOPLE IN FUTURE YEARS CTHE CHRISTIAN BROTHERS ARE A GROUP OF CATHOLIC RELIGIOUS BROTHERS WHO SPECIALIZE IN. DIFFERENT FORMS OF EDUCATION) For More Details, Write: BROTHER STEPHEN FSC I DE LA SALLE ROAD ALBANY, N.Y. 12208 CONCORDIENSJS, Wednesday, Nov;·tr, 1976 · Davidson Co~op: on Alternative to Saga There used to be only three choices a Union student had for satisfying hi~ eating habits: let Saga cook for you, cao!<. for yourself. or starve. Very often, there were 11o d;iffetences. among the thr;t;.e. . . · ... Now students })ave .a fourth choice- the ne:w kosher co~op.lt is located in the Davidson co-op. but students do not have to live in Davidson to be part of the progr-am. The food is $trictly Glatt Kosher; but one does not have to be ·kosher or even Jewish - to enjoy the bigll-quality food tl,lat is served. Di11ners in the kosher co~op are prepared 1 by Mrs. Sandra Liebson,- a professional .. cook. Lm:t.che.s · a.re, ~oncocted by Bob Wein§t.~in, a l}nion student who wa~ the pili!! f. coo~ at .. a. kosper . ~ :. · .. (, '-! ·· LuNcir · ·! .:·. . : _.uu! ·~· Mon. · · ~ · ·. Blin·tzes: camp for several su:rimers. The ·co-operative aspect of the program involves each student in dean-up duty, about once a week. The co~op's men.u offers a. wide varietY of food, and the diners help .Plan the menu. Also, if a person must, for some reason, come late or even miss a meal, provisions will be made for that person to eat at a more convenient time. . ihe meal-plan includes ten meal~ a week; lunch (serve4 at 12:30) and dinner (served at 6:00), Monday through Friday. The cost is $300 per term., which. h.appens to be the loWest price for kosher food fn the Capital Distr~c;:t. To. giv~ ail . idea of what the kosher Kitphen serves ·. the f~llo.wing, is~ an. act.ual me~u of a ~ two~wt;e,k_ period: · · '· · .. . . . ~ ,, I. DINNER ·Tues. Wed. Thurs.· Fri .. Mon. Tues.· Wed. Thurs. Fri. Chicken Salad 1 Soup Gefilte Fish .Beef Stew Salisbury Steak Liver and Onions FJ.'ied Fish Stuffed Cabbage Hamburgers .Pepper Steak Cold Cuts ' Pizza .· ,., ·Salami and Eggs · ·• . , ·French ·Toast Egg Salad Lasagna · ;. Tuna·Melt .Hot Roast Beef Sand. · Meat .Loaf Turkey Head Librar to be R The final candidates for the open librarian position, Roland F. Streit and Ronald L. Weiher,. will be on campus for a set:ies of interviews Nov. 17 .. 18 and Nov. 22- 23,. respectively. ln order to 'maximize community input, all of the fo'llowing meetings ar.e open and evaluation forms will be available: Thursday, November 18 9:00 - 9:45 a.m., Ruth Ann Evans, Acting Librarian 10:00 ~ II, Dean Brownlee U:l5 - 12:00, Library Committee 12:60 - 1:00 p.m., Lunch - Faculty Members .of Library Committee 1:15 - 2:00. Search Committee 'PBK The Union College chapter of Phi• Beta Kappa announces a new 'program providing support for student research projects. Requests for support · will be evaluated on the basis of project merit and personal financial heed. The research expenses need not be course-related. Preliminary proposals of one or two · paragraphs accompanied by endorsetnen't · from a faculty member should be submitted to Professor Ginsberg by Curd Rola11 Age: 34 Education: Science, U ni (1973), I ematicsf Com1 Tech Universi Experience Director, Col Associate Pr Computer S< University; Library' and Mary Holme Point, Mis Assistant Pre Library Scien< ...... Wetlnesday, i questions program shou Dean Potts or 3033). Because o available, normally not anP. in no c::a tivovided bey _dollars. Only cannot be cc other source v Besides the main dish, every meal includes fresh salad, and a choice of vegetables. a variety of this meal plan for winter term. If lf!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!d you are at all interested, call lrv •. Kaufman at 370-6627 or drop a desserts is also available. It is not too late to sign up for · · MADI~~ll'.~ - aut'~ :.-..:· TYPlNG ~SERVICE • Reports •~ Manusciipts ·. · • Thesis · e Resumes note in Box 2525. ~~l.f~i 686 .fr'Jo...<\G\ :s~.Q_yJO. The PENNY PINCHER QUALITY CLOTHES- LOW PRICES USED BUT NOT ABUSED . CURRENT STYLES 1122 ALtAMONT AVE. (~ntrance Bemlce St.) Tuesday - Saturday 10·5 Tbursday's till 9 p.m. 356-2571 The BIG RAT is back!! $1.25 or ~ with on Old Vienna Split $1.50 The Dutch Hollow ... FIRST ANNUAL Pub ann4 THANK BUFFET on Friday, November 5:00 to 8:30. ALL YOU .CAN EA $3.95!! (chiJdren under 14 - o Featttring: ,, ·whole · Roasted,· · Ti Dressing. - Salad Bar - Peas ..... Onions - Sweet Potatoes - Potatoes - Hot Breads - Nuts - Assorted Desserts - One D1 wine, Clr soft drink) ****And al $3.95 ALL YOU CAN EAT!! So, enj~:v, be there, at the biggest to\:nr Happy. thanksgiving! , · . . ' -~- .. Don't Go Home Witho1 GET) OF THE 6.98 LIS' -FOH . ~. ' 3.4 Hurry- Q (NO RAI Sale Ends s ROLLING 527 Union St., S4: Open Mon.-Sa1 ··$~~~~

' Page 14 CQN(:0RD1'ENSIS, Wednesday, Nov._ll, 1976 Pre--Law Society Nichols on Hono.rs c·on't The PreuLaw Society presents: \Anatomy of a Manslaughter Case,\ the famed speech of Judge Howard A. Levine, an Adjunct Professor at Albany Law School. Date: Thursday, Nov. l8 'M-.-·-.- Q-;RR-···---- l·lme. o;uu p.m. Where: West College Library Judge~ Levine wili take you through the case from time of arrest to conviction j acquittal and this should be especially interesting for students interested in the workings of the legal system. Everyone on and off campus is requested to be there for this will not be repeated. Refreshments will be provided. Elections for all offices will be held Nov. 19 in West College Library at 4 p.m. A representative from Vermont Law School will be in, the P.S. office Nov. 18, 9:.12 a.m. COME.. 1 BROWSE.f E.NJO't' Continued from Pagf I During an interview for this Concordy article, Ptofessor Nichols emphasized that one intellectually valuable extracurricular club which is nQtably absent from our school is a Debating Club. We also need a political organization to argue politics. An additional idea whtch Union should consider . is a student lecture series, in which students are invited to submit papers for a speech to be given by the winner. This idea was used once last year When seniors interested in speaking a.t Graduation ·submitted a speech on a given topic. What would be the value of having an honors program at Union? In his Memorandum, Dr. Nichols lists several advantages: to aid in admissions recruiting of gifted students, to attract foundation and government grants otherwise unavailable, to ATTENTION PREMEDS MON. NOV. 22, 1976 4:30 & 7:30 Rm SW 301 FOR SENIORS ONLY who are actively applying to American Medical schools - (in Genetics Lab) MON. NOV. 29, 1976 5:00 (for 30 min.) Meeting for all Juniors who are applying· to Medical school (in Genetics Lab) mcrease the school's reputation within academic circles, and to the most interesting part of their education to be the professors who could give them an overvi'ew of the world and an understanding ·of how everything fits tog~;ther. What contri·butions ha\Ve extt:acurricular activities made to the intellectual atmosphere at Union'? Both Nichols and the students have been rather disappointed by the activities offered. Conside·r, for .example, what happens when most grqups bring a speake~ to Union. They obtain one of two types of speakers. The first is the individual with a big name who presents a pitch you have already heard or read. The other is the professional who gives a prepared speech. To expand upon this format,. Nichols suggests that the speaker should be invited into the classroom, either before or after the speech, to discuss and' not just to lecture. ' Union College Film Committee Presents: \THREE DAYS OF THE CONDOR\ Friday at 10; Sat. & Sun.-7, 9, 11 .75 with Tickets $1.00 w I out Tickets *Tickets are still available (and are good for Winter and Spring Terms) in the Student Activities Office. r---------------------- 1 Mall check or money order to: I TELTRONICS, 2400 E. Devon, Des Plaines, Ill. &0018 I I Please send the following watch(es). (Specify your choice I FREEl I . of 10 styles: A thru J, followed by ··s\' for silver rhodium I · @$16.95 or .. G .. for gold @$17.95.) I understand that I will 1 receive, free, a Teltronics calculator with every two watches 1 I order. Order any rwo Teitronics L.E.D watches and get this 8-digit. 5-function electronic memory calculator, with battery and carry case, FREE.! ~ QUANTITY STYLE FINISH PRICE l I - I I Add $1.00 shipping and handling cost for each watch, Illinois I I residents add 5% sales tax. I enclose my check or money order 1 for the total $ . I (Do not mall cash, No coo·a accepted. Offer good in continentai I I USA only.) 1 I Name 1 I Address:-------------~--- I I City State Zip I L~~-~~~-~~~~-~~~-----~ Faculty in Oecember with h1s recommendations. His report will go through t'fi'e :nor111allegislative process involving the government structure .at our College, ancJ it will be presented to the entire maximize intellectual stimulation for both•student' and faculty. An honars program at Union also could be used as a valuable Public Relations tool As Dr .. Nichols points out, ''Publicity 'should be generated in appropriate fashion to call .attention to the program and to Unien's dedication to intellectual excellence.\ · Union · ,follt;!g:\1, C!)tril'nunity. Professo-r \Nrl · ftas not consulted with!~ the faculty yet, so he cannot .. tnake any firm recornmendat#)ns , at this time. His final -report will give currioeular suggestions and will The ·Memorandum also anticipates some problems involved with the creation of an honors program, among them being the question of faculty staffing. Nichols states that, . \Departments. are. already expected to contribute to the General Education program (whether Comp. Ed. or its successor) and thus departments already expect to surrender some of their staff time to non- departmental programs. Some of that t-ime could simply be moved over to an Honors Pwgram~\ Another problem-area might be the naming of the program. In order to avoid a psychological distance which might be felt between ''The Honors Program\ members and the rest of the student body, Nichols suggests calling it \The Steinmetz Curriculum.\ He explains his choice of nomenclature by saying, . \I can think of no better name to symbolize personal dedication to independent inquiry, intellectual breadth, and excellence at Union College than the name of Charles ' P, Steinmetz.\ Byron Nichols will submit his report to the Educational Policy Committee and the Dean of Algur '-iquor Center Liquors- Wines - Cordials 751% EASTERN AVE. CORNE~ JACKSON LOWEST PRICE.S ALLOWED IN N.Y. STATE suggest administrative· proc~dures. He. also will make suggestions for the allocation' of physi~al resources, for instance a set of rooms in_..the library for students in this program. Already union provides rehearsal rooms fo,r student ·musicians and the gym for athletes, s0 this is ·a reasonable request. The main justification for the proposed )1dnors program is that it is democratic. We must provide fot the various ne~ds of our students. Contrary to what many people may thin,k of this progra'm, it will not create an elite at Union. Responding to the needs of this honors group P,f students is no different from i-esponding to the needs of stu~ents with other particular intetests. If you would: .like to read the Nichols Memorandum in its entirety, you can reque~t a copy at the reference desk at the Schaffer Library. Professor Nichols will be calling a meeting for interested students in late November. He will send notices fo both Concordy and the Chrooide. Be on the lookout. LUKE'S SUPERMARKET 83() EASTERN AVE. 8 AM - 10 PM 7 DAYS Foil line of deli, cold beer and soda, produce and grocery. Starting NOW at the Dutch Hollow Pub Special Drinks Ev_ery Night* from 8-11 Gin & Tonic Vodka & 7-Up Monday Tuesday Wednesday Thursday 75¢ 75¢ $1.00 75¢ Wbite & Black Russians Wbiskey Sours *no coupons accepted for special SATURDAY, NOVEMBER 20: The Nott Witts return for another side-splitting session. The laughs l)egin at 7:30 p.m. right here on 90.9! SUNDAY, NOVEMBER 21: The Sunday Special interview with Mark Seltzer and Lee Wasserman. Tbis week's guest: Professor Finkelstein of the History Department. The broadcast begins at 7:30 p.m. Remember: The FCC test for third class permits will be given at Albany, December 8th and !)!h. Reservation forms a!id study guides can be obtained at WRUC. ', t ·i .(. r I II~L:~==·=~======f:~===========:==' Plac t On Camp01 the follow campus jobs I tO stUdentS. If them, stop .Office as soo1 I. A nnou1 basketball ga1 2. Statistici1 away basketb: 3. Two stu< assist in regis and Tuesday, the Alumni (i 4. T\~o stU< assist in the with registrati winter break < 29, 30. Tutors are followi·ng cou L French·.,J 2. C.E. 80 3. Statistics 4. E.S. 20 5. C.E 45 ' 6. E.S. 22 7. Chemist'r. Publishing . For any seriously inter, as a care(,!r, tht Harvard 1 R Procedures Co Cambridge, !Vi to August interested in course shoul Placement ( application ml National ) Space A The Nation Space Admin currently i1 selection pro, limited numbt selected as a: with the possi Space Shuttle Specialists. Tl candidates I Specialist P bachelor's del physical or b mathematics, the NASA fli height betwee The requitem for Space Shu are: a hac engineering, 1 mathematics, pilot time. thi NASA flight height betwee Applicatio available at tt are due by selections w December successful car for duty on information Office. .'Servin Union lftit.Tb Gi~n~r~ 't' t66lay QullityS 'Fine·Wor

Page 14 Pre-Law Society The Pre-Law Society presents: .. Anatomy -of a Manslaughter Case,:· the fall)ed speech of Judge Howard A. Levine, an Adjunct -Professor at Albany Law School. Date: Thursday, Nov. IS rrme: s:oo--p~m: Where: West College Library . Judge ' Levine will take you through the case from time of arrest to conviction 1 acquittal ~nd t~is should be especially Interestmg for students interested in the workings of the legal system. Everyone on and off campus is requested to be there for this will not be repeated. Refreshments will be provided. Elections for all offices will be held Nov. 19 in West College Library at 4 p.m. A representative from Vermont Law School will be in the P.S. office Nov. 18, 9-12 a.m. COME.., BROWSE.f E.NJ'OY c,:QNCORIJ'iENS!S, Wednesday, Nov. 17, 1976 /. Nich-ols on Honors ·con 't \ ..... ':. .., Continued from Pag\! l During an interview for this Coneordy article, Professor Nichols emphasized that one intellectually valuable extracurricular club which is notably absent from our school is a Debating Club. We also need a political organization to argue politics. An additional idea which Union should consider · is a student lecture series, in which students are invited to s.u:brnit papers for a speech to be give.n by the winner. This idea was used once last year when seniors interested ·in speaking at Graduation ·submitted a speech on a given topic. What would be the value of having an honors program at Union? In his Memorandum, Dr, Nichols lists several advantages: to aid in admissions recruiting of gifted students, to attract foundation and government grants otherwise unavailable, to ATTENTION PREMEDS MON. NOV. 22, 1976 4:30 & 7:30 Rm SW 301 FOR SENIORS ONLY who are actively applying to American Medical schools · (in Genetics Lab) MON. NOV. 29, 1976 5:00 (for 30 min.) Meeting for all Juniors who are applying· to Medical school (in Genetics Lab) mcrease the school's reputation within academic circles, and to the most interest·ing part of their education to be the professors who could give them an overview of the world and an· undevstanding of how everything fits tog~;ther. w.hat contributions ha\Ve extroaccurticular activities made to the intellectual atmosphere at Union'? Both Nichols and the students have been rather disappointed by the activities offered. Consider, for example, what happens when most grqups bring a speaket: to Union. They obtain one of two types -of spea:kers. The first is the individual with a big name who presents a pitch yo.u have already heard or read. The other is the professional who gives a prepared speech. To expand upon· this format, Nichols suggests t,hat the speaker should be invited into the classroom; either before or after the speech, to discuss and not just to lecture. ' Union College Film Committee Presents: \THREE DAYS OF THE CONDOR\ Friday at 10; Sat. & Sun.-7, 9, ll .75 with Tickets $LOO w I out Tickets *Tickets are still available (and are good for Winter and Spring Terms) in the Student Activities Office. r----------------~-- 1 Mall check or money order to: I TEL TRONICS, 2400 E. Devon, Des Plaines, Ill. 60018 Faculty in December with h1s recommendations. His report will ge through th~e -.norq1al legislative precess involving the government structure at our College, an<j. it will be presented to the entire maximize intellectual stimulation for both ~Student,;- and fact!lty. An heners program at Union also could be used as a valuable Public Relations tool. As Dr. Nichols points out, ''Publicity 'should be generated in appropriate fashion to call attention to ~he program and to Union's dedication to intellectual excellence.\ ·Union· .folleg~ c9rrimunity. Professoi· · 'N!r,dtols · has not consulted with 1 ~the faculty yet, so he cannot ::make any firm recommendat:ipns . at this titne. His final .report will give curricular suggestions imd will The ·Memorandum also antici.pates some pro·blems involved with the creation of an honors program, among them being the question of faculty staffing. Nichols states that, ' 1 Departments. are already expected to contribute to the General Education pr?grarh {whether Comp. Ed. or its successor) and t,hus departments already expect to surrender some of their staff time to non- departmental programs. Some of that time could simply be moved over to an Honors Program.\ Another problem-area might be the naming of the program. ln order to avoid a psychological distance which might be felt between \The Honors Program\ members and the rest of the student body, Nichols suggests calling it \The Steinmetz Curriculum.\ He explains his choice of nomenclature by saying, ,\l can think of no better name to symbolize personal dedication to independent inquiry, intellectual breadth, and excellence at Union College than the name of Cha:rles ' P, Steinmetz.\ Byron Nichols will submit his report to the Educational Policy Committee and the Deart of Algur ~iquor Center Liquors - Wines - Cordials 751Yl EASTERN :AVE. CORNER JACKSON LOWEST PRICES ALLOWED IN N.Y. STATE suggest administrative· procedure:;. He. also WiH make suggestions for the ahocaticin of physical resources, for instance a set- of rooms in,... the library (or students in this program. Already Union provides rehearsal rooms for student ·musicians and the gym for athletes, so this is · a reasonable request. The main justification for the proposed hdnors program is that it is democratic. We must provide for the various nebds of eur students. Contrary to what many people may thin;k of this program, it will not create an elite at Union. Responding to the needs of this honors group pf students is no different from responding to the needs of stu~ents with other particular interests. If you would: like to r.ead the Nichols Memorandum in its entirety, you can reque~t a copy at the reference desk at the Schaffer Library. Professor Nichols will be calling a meeting for interested students in late November. He will send notices to both Concordy and the Chronicle. Be on the lookout. ' LUKE'S SUPERMARKET 830 EASTERN AVE. 8 AM- JOPM 7DAYS Full line of lleli, cold beer and soda, ·produce and grocery. - ._ - Starting NOW I I I I , ) ) 1) l ) at the Dutch Hollow Pub Monday Tuesday s'pecial Drinks Every Night* from 8-11 Gin & Tonic Vodka & 7-Up Wednesday Thursday 75¢ 75¢ $1.00 75¢ White & Black Russians Whiskey Sours *no coupons accepted for special - - - ~ SATURDAY, NOVEMBER 20: The Nott Witts return for another side-splitting session. The laughs 15egin at 7:30 p.m. right here on 90.9! I FREEl I I I I I I Please send the following watch(es). (Specify your choice of 10 styles: A thru J, followed by \S\ for silver rhodium @$16.95 or \G\ for gold @$17.95.) I understand that I will receive, free, a Teltronics calculator with every two watches I order. QUANTITY STYLE .FINISH PRICE I Add $1 .00 shipping and handling cost for each watch. Illinois I residents add 5% sales tax. I enclose my check or money order for the total s . I (Do not mall cash. No COD's accepted. Offer good in continental I USA only.) I Name------------------------------ 1 Address-------~----------- 1 City State ZIP---- L-~-~~----~-~--------~ SUNDAY, NOVEMBER 21: The Sunday Special interview with Mark Seltzer and Lee Wasserman. This week's guest: Professor Finkelstein . of the History Department. The broadcast begins at 7:30 p.m. Remember: The FCC test for third class permits. will be given at Albany, December 8th and 9th. Reservation forms and study gu~des can be obtained at WRUC. On Campus The followi1 campus jobs v ' to students. If them, stop t Office as soon I. Announ basketball garr 2. Statisticia away basketba 3. Two stud' assist in Fegist and Tuesday, , the Alumni G~ 4. Two stud~ assist i~ the with registratio winter break 01 29, 30. Tutors are following cour: I. Frencll,·l3 2. C.E. 80 : 3. Statistics 4. E.S. 20 5. C.E. 45 '\' 6. E.S. 22 7. Chemist'ry Publishing A For any s• seriously intere: as a career, the Harvard I Ra Procedures Cou Cambridge, M~ to August ' interested in , course should Placement Ol application mat National A1 Space Ad The Nationa Space Adminis currently in• selection prog1 limited number selected as ast with the possib: Space Shuttle Specialists. Th€ candidates fo Specialist Pn bachelor's degr physical or bio mathematics, t. the NASA flig. height between The requirezne1 for Space Shutl are: a bach( engineering, ph mathematics, pilot time, the NASA flight height between Application: available at the are due by selections will December 3 successful cand for duty on Jl information al Office. Man. 'S . . ervmg Union -Ftii'.Tbr1 Gen~rati .,_. ·, QuaUtySer 'FinfWorkr

CONCORJ)JENSIS, ,J¥edn.esclay,, Nov. 17, 1976 Page 15 .. . ... r1 I I l___j Attentio-n Freshmen : Placement. N·ew.s On Campus Jobs Available the following is a list of on campus jobs which ·are available 1 to students. If interested in any ·of them, stop by the Placement Office as soon as possible. I. Announcer for home basketball games. 2. Statistician for home and away basketbaii games. 3. Two students are needed to assist in registration on Monday and Tuesday, January 3 and 4 in the Alumni Gym. 4. Tv.:o students are needed to assist in the Registrar's Office with registration material aver the winter break on December 27, 28, 29, 30. Tutors are ·needed for the following courses=·. I. French·-Hli , 2. C.E. 80 · ., 3. Statistics l'O 4. E.S. 20 5. C.E. 45 Water Resources 6. E.S. 22 7. Chemistry 10 (need two) Publishing As A Career (?) For any seniors who are seriously interested in publishing as a career, the ~Oth 1'iession of the Harvard f Radcliffe Publishing Procedures Course will be held in · Cambridge, Mass. from June 27 to August 5. Any seniors interested in enrolling in this course should stop by the Placement Office to secure application materials. National Aeronautics and Space Administration The National Aeronautics and Space Administration (NASA) is currently involved in .two selection programs in which a limited number of persons will be selected as astronaut candidates with the possibility of selection as Space Shuttle Pilots or Mission Specialists. The requirements for candidates for the Mission Specialist Programs are: a bachelor's degree in engineer.ing, physical or biological science;, or mathematics, the ability to pass the NASA flight physical, and a height between 60 and 76 inches. The requirements for candidates for Space Shuttle Pilot's Program are: a bachelor's degree in engineering, physical science, or mathematics, 1,000 hours first pilot time, the ability to pass the NASA flight physical, and a height between 65 and 76 inches. Applications, which are available at the Placement Office, are due by June 30, 1977; selections will be made by December 31, 1977, and successful candidates will report for duty on July I, 1978. More information at the Placement Office. . by JOHN KENNEDY Union freshman will have their first chance to bid a fraternity on Sunday and Monday, November 21 and 22, during lunch and dinner at West College. If you are interested in· submitting a bid to join a house, you may do it then. If you need more time to decide, a second such bid session will be held December 5 and 6,. or you can wait until Winter or Spring term when you can. pledge a house at any time. The procedure for these bid sessions (such as those of November 21 and 22 and December 5 and 6) are as follows: those men that wish to bid a house will be given a sheet of paper at the doorway of the $1000 POETRY PRIZE A grand prize of $1000 is being offered in a new poetry competition sponsored by the World of Poetry, a monthly newsletter for poets. In addition, there are 49 cash and merchandise awards .. Says Poetry Editor Eddie - Lou Cole, \We hope to encourage new poets - even poets wbo have written only one _poem.\ , For rules and official entry . forms write to : World of Poetry, 801 Portola Dr., Dept. 211, San Francisco, California 94127. Union P·harmacy '\ Union st.- Men&Women Stude;_,t -Need& 374-lQJS FOR.LIQUOR AND WINE Try Jake- Lipstein' s 464 State Str:eet 374-1888 BUSINESS OPPORTUNITY Stuff Envelopes $25.00 PER HUNDRED Immediate Earnings Send $1.00 To: Envelopes Dept. 339A 310 Franklin Street Boston, Mass. 02110 Maurice B. Graubart & Sons --------------'The Jay St. Jeweler· .'Serving Union -Fdt. Three Ge~~rations' t66 Jay st. QuaHty Service & 'Ffne· Workmmship • ·- HERSHEL MAURICEB _W_AJ;,..I.~R Frater,n:ity Biddi.ng Explained dining hall and will write their name, address, telephone number and the three houses they would want to join in order of .preference. If anyone wishes to only put down one or two houses, this is fine. 11here will be a box at the check-in table in West College manned by I.F.C. representatives during lunch and dinner on the 21st, and 22nd, as we'll as on the 5th and 6th. should you decide that you do not want to go to the house with whom you have not been matched, it is not mandatory that you <io so. Or, if you have not been matched to the house you -really want tojoin, simply say \no thanks\ and hid again next time around. After matching, the house w.ith which you have been matched will contact you. Then you will be pledi!Ni to join this house. ... -o-- - Pledging is a -trial membership, during which brothers and pledges become better acquainted and the pledges get a feel for the customs of the house. Again, no obligation to brother is incurred. If there are questions, please contact any brothers of any house or any of theLF.C. officers: John Ecklund (Sigma Chi), John Kennedy (Citi Psi), or Tom Amato (Betaj. Following dinner on November 22nd and December 6th, the l.F.C. will meet to match bids. Let's say that a student has chosen houses A and B as his first and second choices respectively. lf house A has this man on their list, then the man is matched with that house. If the student has picked house A as his firs..t choice but house A does not have this man on their list and house B does, then the man is matched with house B, his second choice. What \matching\ means is that the house that matches with a man has first chance to pledge that person. Pep Rally--Garnet Day On Friday, Dec. 3, .a Pep Rally at a maximum. The day of the will be held at the Field House to Rally will also be Garnet Day so kick off the first home basketball that everyone can show their game aad raise spmt and spirit by wearingthe school color. enthusiasm for winter sports in This event, sponsored by the general. Activities at the Rally Positive Action Group, is one you will include a competition don't want to miss, so get between dorms, fraternities and together with your dorm or frat faculty for the most spirited and · ·and start working on a banner or original banner of cheer and an cheer right away! More It is important to nott; that the entire bid process involVes no obligation on the part of a freshman to join a house. That is, introduction of the winter sports information about the Pep Rally varsity teams. will be forthcoming and anyone Cheerleaders will be there to. interested should call Linda help keep the noise and cheering Straube at 680'1 or Kathy Ruby at 346-9211. Ask Procter & Gamble what you can do with your BA degree! You could become the advertising/marketing manager for one of these P&G products! ' Although only 5 are shown here>:trocter & Gamble makes more than 50 well-known, well-advertised consumer brands. For each brand, there is a small management group, usually just 3 people, totally responsible for planning, creating and supervising everything that is done to increase consumer acceptance of their brand. The group is headed by a Brand Manager, an important level of management in our company. Right now, we're looking for a few highly qualified college seniors with the potential to become Brand Managers. You would start at our Cincinnati headquarters as part of a brand group for a specific brand, perhaps one of those shown here. To help you learn quickly, your Brand Manager would give you challenging assignments of increasing responsibility in various key marketing areas such as TV advertising, package design, special promotions, budget planning and analysis, and market research. The emphasis would be on you, your ideas, your ability to contribute. You'll be promoted on the basis of merit alone. It's not uncommon to become a full Brand Manager within 3-4 years. Since you will begin to manage from the day you join us, we're looking for \take charge\ people with outstanding records of leadership while in college. \Superior academic achievement\ \innovative\, \a record of being able to get things done\ and \g€lod oral and written communi- cations skills'' are some of the words we use to describe the -people we want. If this kind of work interests you and you think you qualify, please send tne your resume. Ms. Sandy Moersdorf The Procter & Gamble Co. Advertising Personnel P.O. Box 599- Dept. A Cincinnati, Ohio 45201 An Equal Opportunity Employer i ' j .i . • ' ,, ' ' . '' ', ,. •' I•' ,' ·t l.

CONCOR.D!ENSIS, ,Wcwin.esdoy.,- JVov. 17, 1976 Page 15 Attention Freshmen : Placement New.s On Campus Jobs Available The following is a list of on campus jobs which 'are ava;ilable ' to s.tudents. If interested in any of them, stop by the Placement Office as soon as possible. I. Announcer for home basketball games. 2. Statistician for home and away basketball games. 3. Two students are needed to assist in registration on Monday and Tuesday, January 3 and 4 in the Alumni Gym. 4. Two students are needed to assist i~ the Registrar's Office with registration material over the winter break on December 27, 28., 29, 30. Tutors are · needed . for the following courses; . I. Frencll,·l34> :, 2. C.E. 80 ·: •, · 3. Statistics 10 . 4. E.S. 20 5. C.E. 45 Water Resourc~s 6. E.S. 22 7. Chemisfry W (need two) Publishing As A Career (?) For any seniors who are seriously interested· in publishing as a career, the JOth session of the Harvard I Radcliffe Publishing Procedures Course will be held in Cambridge, Mass. from June 27 to August 5. Any seniors interested in enrolling in this course should stop by the Placement Office to secure application materials. National Aeronautics and Space Administration The National Aeronautics and Space Administration (NASA) is currently involved in .two selection programs in which a limited number of persons will be selected as astronaut candidates with the possibility of selection as Space Shuttle Pilots or Mission Specialists. The requirements for candidates for the Mission Specialist Programs are: a bachelor's degree in engineer.ing, physical or biological science, or mathematics, the ability to pass the NASA flight physical, and a height between 60 and 76 inches. The requirements for candidates fot Space Shuttle Pilot's Program are: a bachelor's degree in engineering, physical science, or mathematics, 1,000 hours first pilot time, the ability to pass the NASA flight physical, and a height between 65 and 76 inches. Applications, which .are available at the Placement Office, are due by June 30, 1977; selections will be made by December 31, I 977, and successful candidates will report for duty on July I, 1978. More information at the Placement Office. by JOHN KENNEDY Union freshman will ha:ve their first chance to bid a fraternity on Sunday and Monday, November 21 and 22, dufing lunch and dinner at West College. If you are interested in· submitting a bid to join a house, you may.do it then. If you need more time to decide, a second such hid session will be held December 5 and 6, or you can wait until Winter or Spring term when you can pledge a house at any time. The procedure for these bid sessions (such as those ·of November 21 and 22 and December 5 and 6) are as follows: those men that wish to bid a house will be given a sheet of paper at the doorwa·y of the $1000 POETRY PRIZE A grand prize of $WOO is being offered in a new poetry · competition sponsored by the World of Poetry, a monthly newsletter for poets. In addition, there are 49 cash and merchandise awards .. S~ys Poetry Editor Eddie - Lou Cole, \We hope to . encourage new poets. - even • poets wl;lo have written only one poem.\ . For rules and official entry . forms write to : World of Poetry, 801 Portola Dr., Dept. 211, San Francisco, California 94127. Union P.._rnaacy ao uaiion st.- Men&W'omen Studei_at ·Need& 314-l'OS FOR.LIQUOR AND WINE Try Jake Lipstein' s 4()4 State St:r:eet 374~1888 -- BUSINESS OPPOR1UNITY Stuff Envelopes $25.00 PER HUNDRED Immediate Earnings Send $1.00 To: Envelopes Dept. 339A 310 Franklin Street Boston, Mass. 02110 Maurice ·s. Graubart & Sons ------------The Jay St. Jeweler' . 6 Serv,ing Union ·~-d~.rbr~e Generations' 'l' t66 .Ia:f st. Qu~Uty Service & 'Fine' Workmanship • .Fraternity B:idding Explained dining hall and will write their name, address, telephone number and the three houses they would want to Jom in order of preference. If anyone wishes to only put down one or tWo houses, this is fine. There will be a box at the check-in table in West College manned by I.F.C. representatives during lunch and dinner on the 21st, and 22nd, as well as on the 5th and 6th. should you decide that you do not want to go to the house with whom you have not been matched, it is not mandatory that you do so. Or, if you have not been matched to the house you really want to join, simply !\ay ''no thanks\ and bid again next time around. After matching, the house with which you have been matched will contact you. Then you will be plech•Pcl to ioin this house. -o-- Pledging is a ·trial membership, during which brothers and pledges become better acquainted and the pledges get a feel for the customs of the house. Again, no obligation to brother is incurred. If there are questions, please contact any brothers of any house or any of the I. F. C. officers: John Ecklund (Sigma Chi), John Kennedy (Chi Psi), or Tom Amato (Beta). Following dinner on November 22nd and December 6th, the LF.C. will meet to match bids. Let's say that a student has chosen houses A and B as his first and second choices respectively. If house A has this man on their list, then the man is matched with that house. 'If the student has picked house A as his firs.t choice but house A does not have this man on their list and house B does, then the man is matched with house B, his second choice. What ''matching\ means is that the house that matches with a man has .first chance to pledge that person. Pep Rally--Garnet Day On Friday, Dec. 3, a Pep Rally at a maximum. The day of the will be held at the Field House to Rally will also be Garnet Day so kick off the first home basketball that everyone can show their game and raise spmt and spirit by wearing the school color. enthusiasm for winter sports in This event, sponsored by the general. Activities at the Rally Positive Action Group, is one you It is important to not~ that the entire bid process involves no obligation on the part of a freshman to join a house. That is, will include a competition don't want to miss. so get between dorms, fraternities and together with your dorm or frat faculty for the most spirited and · ·and start working on a banner or original banner of cheer and an cheer right away! More introduction of the winter sports information about the Pep Rally varsity teams. will be forthcoming and anyone Cheerleaders will be there to interested should call Linda help keep the noise and cheering Straube at 680 I or Kathy Ruby at 346-9211. Ask Procter & Gamble what you can do with your BA degree! You could become the advertising/marketing manager for one of these P&G products! ' Although only 5 are shown here, Procter & Gamble makes more than 50 we~-known, well-advertised consumer brands. For each brand, there is a small management group, usually just 3 people, totally responsible for planning, creating and supervising everything that is done to increase consumer acceptance of their brand. The group is headed by a Brand Manager, an important level of management in our company. Right now, we're looking for a few highly qualified college seniors with the potential to become Brand Managers. You would start at our Cincinnati headquarters as part of a brand group for a specific brand, perhaps one of those shown here. To help you learn quickly, your Brand Manager would give you challenging assignments of increasing responsibility in various key marketing areas such as TV advertising, package design, special promotions, budget planning and analysis, and market research. The emphasis would be on you, your ideas, your ability to contribute. You'll be promoted on the basis of merit alone. It's not uncommon to become a full Brand Manager within 3-4 years. Since you will begin to manage from the day you join us, we're looking for \take charge\ people with outstanding records of leadership while in college. \Superior academic achievement\ \innovative\, \a record of being able to get things done'', and \gBod oral and written communi- cations skills\ are some of the words we use to describe the-people we want. If this kind of work interests you and you think you qualify, please send me your resume. Ms. Sandy Moersdorf The Procter & Gamble Co. Advertising Personnel P.O. Box 599- Dept. A Cincinnati, Ohio 45201 An Equal Opportunity Employer i ' ' ' ' 1 I ' ' . ' I ; J: ., . / ,;., ' '. ; ~ ' '. ' ,',I

Page 16 CONCORDJENSJS, Wednesday, Nov. p, 1976 Baker Lecture continued Continued from Page 1 Union. He retired from the bank as a vice-president in 1958. While Mr. Baker was chairman of the Union tru~tees, the College increased its endowment by $20 million, built four new dormatories, and made a number of other major additions to its physical plant. His personal gifts to the College include the 1936 renovation of Hale House and the creation of a commons in which a faculty residence was made in the South Colonnade. He also endowed a professorship, the Walter C. Baker Scholarship and two additional scholarships which are named for his hrst wife, Mary I. Case Baker. Mr. Baker was awarded an honorary Doctor of Law degree on· the 40th anniversary of his. graduation in 1955. In addition to his. ·work in behalf of Union, Mr. Baker wa~ noted for his collection of master drawings and Greek, Etrusian, and Roman art. Accompanying education and religion, the art world was one of the three avocational interests to which Mr. Baker devoted most of hi~ time. He served in a variety of posts for the Metropolitan Museum of Art, includiHg terms as vice president and treasurer. Furthermore, he was an advisor to the Fogg Museum of Art a-t Harvard and a fellow of Pierpont Morgan Library. · Baker was a<Jso a long time -1 •• ' trustee and treasurer of the American Academy in Rome and was active in the Archeologica.l Society of America. He was . a trustee of the Cathedral of St. John the Divine New.Yqrk City, and a warden and treasurer of St. Thomas's Episc·opal\OHI'rch ::Hso in New York.. · · I •· .', HAPPY HOUR! EVF;RY FRIDAY AFTERNOON 12-6 p.m. AT THE SKELLAR MICHELOB SCHLIJZ. , . , GENESEE CREAM ALE Pitchers $1.50 . ,$1.25 $1.00 10 oz. Draft 20¢ 15¢ !I·- .. · .. , 10¢ FREE PEANUTS EVERYDAY Get the great new tast~ in mocna, coconut, banana or strawberry. Pla~ement - Consolidated Rail Company (Penn Central). Only one recru-iter. Looking for all engineers, math, and economics rnajorsto go into management, administration, finance, sales. and scheduling. 9:00 AM-5 PM. Placement Office. Administrative and Engineering Systems Colloquium: Speaker, Joseph A. MaciareHo, Professor, .Institute of Administration and calenoar appear at the Arts Center; 1@69 New Scotland Rd., Albany. 8:00 PM. Call 438-71N5, Union College Mountebanks present \Peer Gynt,'' 8:00pm Nott Memorial. Tickets avail1;1ble at the Nott Box office weekdays I :00-5:00 pm. Management, Union College. This Film Committee Presents seminar deals with applications of \'Three Days of the Condor\ Soc. general principles of man~gement Sci 016. 10 pm. control to the management of Placement ·_ Marines -- Be art complex projects, products and officer. 10:00 a.m.-3:00 p.m. services. 4:00 PM, Bailey Hall, Placement Office. Room 207. Planning· and Pr.iorities Walter C. Raker Ledure in Committee Meeting··~··· Final S.un., ~ f)V. Film Committee Presents \Thrf:e Days of the Condor,\ Soc. Sci.~O·I 6,. 7:00 9:00, II :00 pm. Catholic Mass followed by a social. 7:30 pm, Carnegie Hall. . ·strauss Lounge. .. The SUNY at Albany· Celebr~ty Seriesreturns to Page Hall wi~h the outstanding chamber group, \The Manhattan Trio,\ J:OO pm. Tickets available at the door or call 457-l:>606. ,, ~t~. Arts and Civ.ilization. Frederick deliberations on the. 1977-78 D. Nichols, Langhorne Professor budget. All members of the Unio11. of Atchitecture at the University comrtninity · art welcome :.'t'o' of Virginia, will discuss attend. 12:30 pm; Bailey Hali, Toes~., Nov.' 23i.,.· .. \Jefferson's Lnfluence. ·on Rm. 105. . .. ,., .. : ..... c.,) .• !, .. ',, American Architecture,\ 8:3o lUll'\\\'· ; · · · ·~'£ :.· TJie . 'nternational S .. tudent· PM, Memorial Chapel.. Only 2 recr!J2i.t~ __ ,. ~ .,., ~ The SIMS Cluh . hosts guest positions. Will talk to Chemistry, 'Association . will spons'or an· informal .g· et to'gether; 9:otr .Pm, :; speaker Esta Blood - composer Ele~tric~l an_d Mechanic~l' and Piano teacher \Wflo will Engmeertng maJors· to wofiE\' m Strauss 'Lounge. . · · · : . : .'' ' · · R h. o·es· 1 'gn· an·d Garry. W:ills.lectures .. on .the discuss her ideas on musical · e sea r c , creativity and present some ~f her Development, Manufac.tu.fi;l}g, Declaration \ 0 f · lndependenqe original works such as \The staff, Chemical Sales, Customer every Tuesday· night. 8:00 pm:,· Bakan Suite.\ 8:()0 PM Soc. Sci. Sales Engineering. Extremely Soc.' Sci. 016. . . ' .. · 016. Selective!·· Read ~iter!ltu;te ····in .,.. The N<>tt~~~~tern .. l,'l. Y. Yioutb, Dex'ter . 'G..ordon;· te·nO'r Placement Office. 9:00AM·:.. 5:oo·· Orchestra wrH puesent ·W<'>rks by saxophonist; Cedar . ,Walton; pm, fl~cement.Offic.e .... , ,: . : . Tchaikowsky,. Behjimin ar~~te.n; pianist, Sam Jones, bassist, and U~ion .College . Mountebanks · ~n<l. C~_r_I.<~~IIf 1 \' .Y,pn,,~e.P~'i'~Jn ,~t~·l Dvummer Billy Higgins will present ~ \Peer Gynf' 8:00 'P'M'' f1rst cpn~rt:.ot :the;J:9J~:77·season. Nott Memorial. Tickets available Emory W~tters· of Umon CoUe'ge weekdays at the Nott Box offi-ce'.· ~~~ c~td~ct. .~:.p? P,!~?,:>,.Me_mpr!ftL 1:00 - 5:00 pin. ape . . , . . . . .... _. _:! • r!. 1- r~· .-.--~ - • Sat.; ·Nov~· :tO .film Committee Presents -- \Three Days of the Condor,\ Soc. Sci 016, 7:00, 9:00, 11:00 PM. JV Basketl.!all, Union. vs. ,.RPI, ' 6:15 pm, Away. Union College Men's Glee Club. Concert ~- performing with Simmon's College. Dvorak's \Te Deum:.\ · · ·\ · · 8:00 PM, Memorial Chapel. Jose Greco 'and Nana Lorca, internationally acclaimed Spanish dancers, will be featured by the Albany Symphony On;b~st~a .. a.t, . the Paface Theatre, at 8:30 pm for .. info call: 465-4755. UJ1ion College Mountebanks Present -\Peer Gynt,\ 8:00 pm, Nott Memorial Tickets available at the Nott Box ·office weekdays I :00-5:00 p.m. ' Trying to start innovative engineering company, not like big corporations, my interests are. solar energy, . electric and steam powered cars, etc. Do you have the same interests, if so please write me at: 36 Water St., Seneca Falls, NY 13148, Att.: E. Dunn. Varisty BasketbaU, ·lJnioii,. vs: Kings Point, 7:30 pm, A:wa}c· . : Ice Hockey, Union V s. •. Northeastern, 7:00. pm, Away. The Schenectady County Public Library ptl;\sents - \How to Use the. Library\ 7:30 pm, Call 382-3500. Film Committee Presents- \A Streetcar Named Deisre,\ Soc . Sci. 016, 7:00, 9:15, 11:30 pm. New World Theatre .presents Sidney Howard's . ·'T~-e·· ·-D;~i'~~T. Cord\ - Nott Memorial_.l,heatr.e~ - December 1-4: s' pm. Union Students $1.00 General Admission $2.00. · ·FERRo·s PHARMACY closest to campus \S\ruDSNT DISCOUN\r 575iWIII. 3'7'J'-M1t. ,..,., The Portable Party: There will be a 30 PROOF AND .READY TOGO Kickers, 30 proof, ©1976, Kickers Ltd, Hartford, Conn. Phone. i51Bl 37\• 6050 370-6051 Dutch Hollow HOLIDAY BUFFET AT THE P'UB Fri., Nov. 1?,~ 6 p.m. - turkey, stuffings, desserts, & rum The entire community is· invited for $3.95. Come join us. ALSO SPECIAL DRINKS. AT THE PUB 8-11 P.M. Mon. - gin & tonic. 75¢ Tues. White Russian $1.00 Wed. Whiskey Sour 75¢ Thurs. - Screwdriver - 75¢ . . ,,;;···· ''II! - Name tbe Give the 1:J .C. Cfj and 1 or logo and ' bull! A case of ,1 exact! Submit all f office by Friday, announce the win1 atter than'ksgiving .. ] Seniors: anyone . thoughf ul reflection experience (i:e. sh\ir be printed in our contact Ann, Box 51 Wanted: Re~ housesitter for Wint Roommate Wa!l roommate to share beginning winter area. living room, ·k not too into stud utilities included. I with allY questions All those that. ar up a .free writing Activities see Mrs limited supply, and f Tbe outer lou1 Activities Office is lunch hour. for stt gatherings, Area Collece Sl become volunteer Eleanor Roosevc Services. Opportu1 include Physical Education Aides ;u Workers. Call 370-7• To all those 'wlu Phone Dir~tory q1 forgotten about yc have come up. We out as soon as pos· patience. If you've g. would like to do directory, please cor at 370-6427. Place Orders fo Student Activities C now; Price $5. Fo1 others. Sailprs! The Sail meeting Thursday, • will be to elect ofl future of the club. T at SS 110 at 7:30. To people with lighting: If you are lights for Mountel Shakespeare's TweU please leave your ·n phone number in m Memorial Theatre G get in touch with y Crames. Mounteban LOST AND FOUNi Lost: Silver medalli calendar, approx. I i Please contact ·Robe 144 To whom it may floor S. Davidson, ' class ring w 1 green P.J. I would rea Thanks! Contact Pete For Sale: Fischer : binding, $40. - (boo 372-7026 For Sale: Technic; channel receiver. 35 Amazing condition, I call Joh!l 370-6412: For Sale: Camaro condition. Call 377-4\ Boots For Sale: boots size 10 in excel Peter Berick Box 897· Books: Cheap!!! All F.E. 30-The Grotesq1 condition. Contact M Boots For Sale: Fr Women's 7!6, in exc; only three times. l consider. Ann, 30:3 ~ 9220. Must Seth 196 7 Vol Needs new battery. Cyndy 346-9369. NEED A RIDE HO the WRUC ride bo ~our name, dates l and destination at tl ) ou need riders, the help you. The ride [ am, 6:25 PM ahd !0: Riders wanted to Pro\ idence, and c Rhode Island. Le~vin Wednesday morning ( ~lilra, 372-1681. Ride wanted DESPE lor Thanksgiving \ early, Marjie 370·303\ CORNELL '- rider 1 9 •h. Please <;all Su 'hdfe e~penses.

Page 16 CONCORDIENSJS~ Wednesday, Nov, F .. 1976 Baker Lecture continued Continued from Page 1 Union. He retired !rom the bank as a vice-president in 195lL While Mr. Baker was chairman ol the Union tru~tees, the College increase·d its endowment by $20 million, built four new dormatories, and made a. number or other major addition~ to its physical plant. His personal gifts to the College include the 1936 renovation of Hale House and the creation of a commons in which a fac~lltV residence was made in the South Colonnade. He also endowed a professorship, the Walter C. Baker Scholarship an~ two additional scholarships wh1ch are named for his hrst wife, Mary I. Case Baker. Mr. Baker was awarded an honorary Doctor of Law degree on the 40th anniversary of his. graduation in 1955. In addition to his. ·work in behalf of Union, Mr. Baker wa!> noted for his collection of master drawings and Greek, Etrusian, and Roman art. Accompanying educatiOn and religion, the art world was one of the three avocational intetests to which Mr. Baker devoted most of his time. He served in a variety of posts f0r the Metropolitan Muse urn of Art, including terms as vice president and treasurer. Furthermore, he was an advbor to the Fogg Museum of Art at Harvard and a fellow ·of Pierpont Morgan library. · Baker was also a long time -\ . ' . ' trustee and treasurer of the American Academy in Rome and was active in the A~cheological Society of America. He was a trustee of the Cathedral of St. John the Divin.e New.Yqrk City, and a warden and treasurer of St. Thomas's Episcbpal'CI'iu:rch, also in New York.. · · · ;, .. ,, HAPPY HOUR! EVE;RY FRIDAY AFTERNOON 12-6 p.m. AT THE SKELLAR MICHELOB .. SCHLIJ~ ,; .. GENESEE CREAM ALE Pitchers $1.50 . ,$1.25 $1.00 10 oz. D.raft 20¢· 15¢ ·II 10¢ : . ..,·., FREE :PEANUTS EVERY DAY '. _. calenoar Thurs • ., Ncn.~. ~ 8 Pbcement -- Consolidated Rail Company (Penn Central). Only ont: recruiter. Looking for all en~ineers, marb. and economics majorsto go into manC~gement, administration, finance, sales, and scheduling. 9:00 AM..:S PM. Placement Office. Administrative and Engineering Systems Colloquil!m: Speaker: Joseph A. Maciarello, Professor, Institute of Administration and appear at the Arts Cente.r, 1069 New Scotland Rd., Albany. IS:OO PM. Call 438-7895. Uni.on College Mountebanks present \Peer Gynt,\ 8:00pm Nott Memorial. Tickets available at the Nott Box office weekdays 1:00-5:00 prn. Management, Union College. This Film Committee Presents seminar deals with applications of \Three Days of the Condor'' Soc~ general principles of management Sci 0·16. 10 pm. · ·· ' · control to the management of Pla'(emeilt ·· -- Marines - Be ali complex projects, products and officer. 10:00 a.m.-3:00 ·p.m. services. 4:00 PM, · Bailey Hall, Placement Offic~. Room 207. Planni11g and Priorities Film Committee Presents \Three Days of the Condor,\ Soc. ScL-016; 7:00 9:00, 11:00 pm. CathQiic Mass followed by a . social. 7:30 pm, Carnegie Hall. . Strauss loun,g~. ~ · · The SUNY 11t Albany Celebri~y Series returns to Page Hall wi~h .~~e outstanding chamber group. fhe Manhattan Tri~>.\ 3:00 pm. · TiG~ets available at the door or call 457-!5606. . ·' .. . '• Walter C. Baker ·Lecture in Committee Meeting . ··- •. Final·;. Arts and Civilization. Frederick deliberations on the 197P78 D. Nichols, L~nghorne Prefessor budget. All members of the- tlniQQ · of Architecture at the University comiittinity - art wet<:hme ''~t'<i'. of Virginia, wil:l discuss· attend. 12:30 pm, · Sai'Iey 'Hali, .. JeJferson's Influence.· ... an, Rm. 105. American Architecture\ 8':30 .PH~ : · .. :·'\.:''< .''' ··.'i•· ' •' PM, Memorial ChapeL.' Only Z recr : Ih~ ·· )ntemational - .. Stud~~t· Tile SIMS Club .hosts- guest. positiohs. Wilftafk. to Chemistry Association will··· spons'dr aw speaker Esta Blood ~ compo!ler Electrical and' Mechanical; inf<;.f:'tl'laJ get to'geiher.:' 9:oir pm:' and Piano teacher, ··wlio will Engineering majors· to wor-k-'' in Strauss 'Loungi;!~ · ·. ·•· . : .•. , :~ discuss her ideas on musicai·Research, Design arrd Garry WOls.,.l.e~;:tut~s.~.on ,the: cr~a~ivity and present some of her Development, Manufac.tuxi,ng, Declaration ·\Of: , Independence ongma.l works such a:s \The staff, Chemical Sales, Customer every Tuesday· mght. 8:00 pm·:: Bakan Suite.\ 8:00PM Soc. Sci. Sa-les Engineering. . Extrem'ely Soc.' Sci. 016. , . . ,. .. 016. Selectj..ve! c Read ~ite~fl:tt)re •''·'i:Ii··:·. The N()ttbf~t~t~rn .. ~. v. .. )loutb, Dert_e!\· 'Gb-rdo-n;· · te'tt'qr' Placement Office. 9:00AM'··~ 5:0(f' Orch~stra will pFesent•work:s by saxophomst~ Cedar. _ .~altqn; ·. pm.. ~1<\C~!IJent..Offic.e. , .·i ,,: . 1 , Tcltllitkbwsky, .·Behj'l1ihih · Bt\~t~* pianist, Sam Jones, bas.s1st, ~nd U!JIOn ,CoHege ·- Mountebanks. &_nd .C~tl,. 1 ~'¥l~r¥Pn.,\'e.P';~~.Jiq\. Drummer Billy Higgins will present - \Peer Gynt\ 8:00 ·PM 1 ':> fmt CQnert:.oi:,tbe,-J9Jb~71 -season •. Nott Memorial. Ticketl) available E~ory · W~ters· ef Union· ·Co-llege· r -----------------------~--------~-~~-~~-d~~d~N~~o~~·~loo~ct.&OO~~M~~M·' . 1:00 - 5:00 p' m. · Chap¢'l:'. ' ·'·•< • • C••li••: · ·' ·''·\\\\' f, \. G~t the great new tast~ ln moCha, coconut, banana or strawberry. Tlte Portable Party: 30 PROOF AND READY 10 GO Kickers, 30 proof, ©1976, Kickers Ltd., Hartford, C:onn. • -!\~ ~ ,. a, • -·•.·:-.:: 1' .f!'~~-r ~- .. ~ .. \; i' • ,•', • I .~_ ... ,• -·t, o ~ ~!i~.':l1'·-< Wed~~ N,ov;,; 24 · ''I •,~ • . ;t\ ~... ~ -~ ... : . ' .... ' . ,•. . ' \: \~·· ·~ ...... J,t ~ ..... ~.~t ·r:1h ... _..~~t-r. .r.,,. : 1 f,>'·} · ;< ,t··,;,;.\ r:':.~?:-tf·~~IJ •. :?t!; i··.:··-o~.)','\' Film Committee Presents ~ ''Three Da~s of the Condor,'' Soc. . . JV Bask~:t~all, Union. vs~ ,((PI, S · 016 7 tit:\ 9 oo· · · . : 6:15 Jim, Away. · ci · • :v\J; : ; 11:00 PM. Varisty. Basketball,· ·Unilln.·' '·v. s: Union College Men's Glee Club. Contert .. - performing with Kings. P()int, 7:30 ·pm; AWay:·.' .' Simnwn's Cotr<~ge .. Dvorak~s \Te Ice . llock~y,. t.Jnio:n . Ys. ... Deuin.\ . . ·\ . Northeastern, 7:00. pm, Away. 8:00 PM, Memorial Chapel. . The Schenec.tady County Jose Greco ·and· Nana l..or.ca, Public Library ·pti\sents _; \j:lQ.w . internationally acclaimed Spanish to Use the Library\ 7:j(j pm; :.Ca:IL 382-:3500. dancets, will be ~.eatured -by th~ ·· · F•'lm Co . ·'tt . p· ... -nt \A · Alb· s . · h 0 . . mm1 ee rese s - · al~~ ymp · ony · r~h~lltra-,a.t: Streetcar Named Deisre,\ Soc . . ~he Palace Theatre, at 8.J,O pm for ... Sci. 016 7 . 00 . 9 . 15 . ll·JQ. · mfo call: 465-4755. . · . • · · • · . • ·: pm. u · C . 1 . . . New World Theatre presents JIIOn o lege Mountebanks Sidney He••;;,\\~:- ..•. 'T.·\'.·-~··~1\~1-..~&.'·.· ·' Present -\Peer Gynt,\ 8:00pm, .· . .. - .. \'\\us·.. .~e;.·:·~I'IY.lf'!. Nott Memor · 1 al T. k t . 1 . bl Cord Nott MemorJa.l.::r:hea=tr.es- . 1c e s ava1 a· e · · ~ · · · ·· ',_ · at the N. ott s· x .Offi . kd . - December 1•4, 8 pm. Umon . 0 ICe Wee . ays s·t d . . $1 . G .... I :00-5:00 p.m. '· • .• u ents .00 . eneral · Admission $2.00. · trying to start 'innovative engineering company, not · like big corporations, my intere~ts are. solar ~nergy, . . . electrJc and steam power.tid . cars, etc. Do you have the same interests,. if . so please write me at: 36 Water St., · . Seneca Falls, NY 13148. . · Att.: E. DWln. ·FERRo·s- ,., ,' ftLJ A bl'-' :&a· : ~~· . elosest to ·camp.us .'$11JDENT DISCOtJNT ........ ·m-Mtt...., There will be a D . . . UN•ON COLLf:\'>E PUS - RESTA\,JRA~T .HOLIDAY BUFFET AT THE PUB · · .. ·u « l Fri., Nov. 19.\ 6 p.m ..... ~:~~ C · . · turkey, stuffings, desserts, eggnog 1!ii1i . :,(.11£NE'-' TA()Y, IllY 1Ll08 til, rum f-1 0 L L O.W !he entire community is invited for S3.9S. Come join us. Phone. f518l 37\~ 6050 :H0.6051 Dutch Hollow ALSO SPECIAL DRINKS · AT THE PUB8~11 P.M. Mon. -gin & tonic: 75¢ Tues. .., White Russian .-.. $1;00 . . . Wed'. . - Whiskey Sour ...... 75¢ ~burs ..... Screwdriver _.. 75¢ Name tb Giv~ the u.c. ~ and;or logo a11d butz! A case: of exact! Submit .all office: by Frid4y announce the wir alter than~sgiving . Seniors: anyone thoughfr,il reflectio expei-ience·(i.e. sh9 be printed in o~ cc;>ntact Ann, Box ~ Wanted: R~ housesit(erfor Win Roommate Wat roommate to shan beginning wititer area, living room, l not too into stu utilities included. with any questions All those tl!lll a up a tree wdting Aciivities see Mr: limited supply, ;m\1 The GUier .lm Activities Office is lunch hC!ur, for st gatherings. · Area CoUece s become vo!untee1 Eleanor Roose''! Services. .Opportt include Physical Education· Aides ~ Workers. Call 370-i To all, those 'wh Phone Dlr«tory q forgotten about Y· have come up. We oul as soon as pol patience. 1f you've ~ would like to do directory, ·pleast; co at 370-6427. Place Orders f( Student Activities C now. Price $5. Fe others . Sailprs! The Sai meeting Thursday, will be to elect ot future of the club. 1 at SS I !Oat 7:30. 'to people with .U~IItinz: If you are lights for Mounte Shakespeare's Twel please leave your 1 phone number iu n Memorial Theatre ( get in touch with ) Crames, Mounteban LOST AND FOUN Losi: Silver medal! calendar, approx. I i Please contaci ·Robe 144 To wbom it may floor S. Davidson, · class ring wf'green P .J. l would re:J Thanks!' Contact Pet For Sale: Fischer binding, $40. - (boc 372-7026 For Sale: Techtilc! channel receiver. 3! Amazing condition. call John 370-6412: For Sale: Camarc condition. Call37'7-4• Boots For Sale: boots size 10 in, excel Peter Berick Box 897· Books: Cheap!!! AI F.E. 30-The Grotesqt condition. Contact M Boots For Salle: Fr Women's 7'6, in ex~ only three times. ~ consider. Ann, 303 r mo. Must Sell: 196 7 Vd Needs new battery. Cyndy 346-9369. NEED A RIDE HU th~ WRUC ride bo ~our name, dates I and destination at tl ~ou need rid'ers, the help you. 'The ride t am. 6:25 PM and 10: Riders Wanted to Prnvidence, and o Rhode lsland. Le1win Wednesday. morning Call Ira; 372-1681. Ride wanted DESP.I! 1 \ 1 Thanksgiving \ Catly, Marjie 370-303~ ro RN ELL - ride n 19 th. Please caJJ Su 'h.tre c~pertses.

Name the Coffeehouse! Give the U .C. coffeeilol!se .a- go0d name and'or logo and we'll give you .a ·good bull! A case of Molson's Golden to be exact! Submit all entries to Mrh. Marra\ office by Friday, Nov. 19, and we'll announce the winner (or winners) right after thanksgiving. Do it now! Seniors: anyone interested in submitting thoughful reflections ori the Union College experience (i:e. short essays, poetry, etc.) to be printed in our Union Book, please contact Ann, Box 503, 377-9897. Wanted: Responsible student1 housesitter for Winter term. Call 6213. Roommate .Wanted - Seeking male roommate to share off-campus apartment, beginning winter term. Separate study area. living mom, kitchen, bath. Preferably not too into studying. $125 a month, utilities included. Please call anytime or with any questions ....,. 370•6428. All those that: are interested in picking up a free writing booklet from Stu~ent Activities see Mrs. Marra. There 'Is a limited supply, and first come, first serve. The outer lounge <lf lhe Student Activities Office is open every day during lunch hour. for studying and /Of ,general gatherings~ Area Colle&e Students are invited to become volunteer W()£kers with the Eleanor Roosevel't DevelopmeiHal Services. Opportunities for ·volunteers include Physical Training Assistants, Education Aides ;md General Recreation Workers. Call 370-7405. To aU those ·who filled out a Student Phone Dir~loi'y queslionaire; We ·haven't forgotten about you. Regrettably things have come up. We will put the directory out as soon as possible. Thanks for your patience. If you've got some spare time and would like to do ·s(Jme typing for the directory, please contact me, flrian Heaps, at370-6427. Place Orders for 1977 Yearbook in Student Activities Office with' Mrs. Marra now, Price $5. For se11iors and $8. for others. Sailprs! The Sailing Oub will have a meeting Thnrsday, N <lV. 18. This meeting will be to elect officers. and discuss the future of the club. The meeting will be held at SS 110 at 7:30. To people with e:xperience in theatre ligbting: If you are interested in designing lights for Mountebanks' production of Shakespeare's Twelfth Night next term, please leave your name, room, box, and phone number in my mailbox in the Nott Memorial Theatre Green Room, and I wilf get in touch with you, Than)t you, Peter Crames, Mountebanks Technical Staff. LOST AND FOUND Lost: Silver medallion in shape of Aztec calendar, approx. I inch diameter. Reward. Please contact ·Robert at 370..()312 or Box 144 To whom it may concern on the 3rjl floor S. Davidson, \Lose•· one white gold class ring w 1 green stone hearing initials P .J. I would really like it returned. Thanks! Contact Pete 361 For Sale: Fischer Ski, 2.05 m, Marker binding, $40. - (boots free), call Michael 372-7026 For Sale: Technics by Panasonic 2/4 channel receiver. 35 watts per channel. Amazing condition, Fo-~ a look or a listen call J ohf! 370-6412~ For Sale: Camaro (1970). V8. Good condition. Call 377-4904. Boots For Sale: L.L-Bean insulated boots size 10 in excellent condition. Offers. Peter Berick Box 897-6-138. Books: Cheap!!! .All nine hooks used in F.E. 30-The Grotesque, are for sale. Great condition. Contact Martha 370-6143. Boots For Sale: Frye Light Brown, 16\ Women's 7!1, in excellent condition. worn only three times. $50.00 or less. Will consider. Ann, 303 N ortll, or call ... 346- 9220. Must Sell~ 1967 Volks\Vagon convertible. Needs new battery. Has four new tires. Cyndy 346-9369. NEED A RIDE HOME for vacation. Let the WRUC ride board help you. Leave ~our name, dates leaving and returning and destination at the WRUC studios. If ~ ou need riders, the ride board can also help you. The ride board is. aired at 10:30 am. 6:25 PM ahd 10:30 PM. Riders wanted to share expenses to Prn\tdence, and only Providence, in Rhode Island. Lea·ving \J:uesday evening or Wednesday morning Nove\llber 23, 24. C <Jlilra, 372-1681. Ride wanted DESPERA\rEL Y to Buffalo lor Thanksgiving Vacation. Can lea\e early, Marjie 370-3039. (OR NELL '- ride needed to. thi, I-n. the l~th. Please call Suke at 346\9205. Will ' •Ire e~penses. CONCORDIENSIS, Wednesday, Nov. 17, l976 lassifiel)s . ,. . . - . . . . ,. - ' 1' Tbe ClassiOet(s Page of the New CUNCORUI.it..I'iSIS Is primarily a student se~vice; as such, alii 'material submitted will be published . FREE of charge. To insure that the items submitted are · prlntedt all copy MUST be in by Monday at 8:00 PM. Items to \be repe~tted\ must have the . number of runs speelfled. The Union Co~ge CONCORDIENSIS assumes no responsibility for typographical· errorst but will print a correction. If you want a ride, or you have something to . sellt or you simply w_ant to see so~efhing of your own printed up in a major world .publication, PLEASE, don't hesitate! This is a FREE. service,. so take lJdvantage of it. If you wish- to submit· ·material which conforms to the format of the Classifieds nAPe. simply sUp it IInder the Concordy _omt:e door (3rd floor C~egie) or gl~e to· -r:o~- Mill~r,. 2:?.4 West. · Ride Wanted !o N.H. (Maine or north- e\iast Mass.. will\ do) for Th11nksgiving, leaving either Tues, Nov. 23rd, or Wed., N\ ov. 24th. Please cal! Kathy at 370-6765. Ride -offered .to boston area -- Tuesday afternoon or Wednesday morning. Ca·ll Cindy at 374-328t · Judy needs a ride to Boston ·Or •starrounding area for Thanksgiving vacation. I will gladly siJare expenses: •Please call me at 306-6800, 207 West - than~t JUde needed desperlltely to Philly .area for Thank~giving. - Call Nancy in· 308 North, 346,9220. .Riders wuted to Washington D. ,C •. Tues. Nov. 23 Give Marcus a call at 6570 Cervantes ..,.. Okay, ha1fway. How'! Why di> you. call yourself Cervantes'! Elizabeth Daniel,· at 370-6541 is interested In ccmtacti~g other persons who would like to meet· once a week to ceook and eat an epicurean meal. All cx;p!]nses would be shared equally. Box 2176 E.T. - What's over may not necessarily be o~er. In the meantime, what's the difference? 1st Floor li'ux ..... Q.irls - why don't yo:u just add -2 more rooms to the apartment? Another ne-w club is here! The club, to lie known as the \Pinba~l Jargon SocieJ.y\ · has been fully finded by Student Tax and is :ready to enlist its first members. To joi1t, one must understand the difterence between ··x.nuding\ trn; bail and the '!severe Affy.\ Also, one must be able to na:rne 12 terms that refer to the \Spin 'n' Spot\ other than ~Back Door,fl \Poop Chute,\ and the m9re CQmmon references to female :anatomy. \Placing \Ptmching '\Round the World,\ \Get the. hell outil here, Geek,\ \Hersheying\ -(often confused with the aforementioned item) an~ the \Lance-Lurch\ are· all exaf!lples of jarJ?;Oil .tnat apply to only one cf the machines in the Skeller. Join the fun now! Just slip your name and phone number intc box 297 and remember: \getting it up the Wow hole\ is the ultimate in pinball fun. To~ay's trivia: why do they call it ~pinball' anyway? VS & Coleen - Contrary tD popular belief, you are two of the niore outstanding and beautiful girls on this campl(s. - Dave. -M«:~ff - I don't get mad - I get even. X:aviera - Hve been trying to meet you: I've got motion, rhythm and a lot more than you have eveT had before. One evening and yoll'll undoubtably retire. Call Eob, 377-1837 \A girt gi~en unsought, no matter how slight, is more dear than a multitude of rich.es expected, especially at 2:30.\ Love. Heard a good cripple joke lately'! Please send it to Box 08 l 8 with your name and address and phone number. Will pay $50 for every joke that appear~ in my book Vlhen it is published. Duke - Could I have just one mOI'e lesson? You know where to find me. W f M j Caucasian I Teenager desires M l F Companion - Send applications with or without picture. The kinkier the better. Reply to Box 0818. All applications will be answered. Love, Box 08 18 (applicants -need not be over 18). l am an equal opportunity solicitor. Tseumoto: I really, really, love you! To Debbie - My favorite \pencil shparpener,\ we're such good friends and have sc much in common'- Mickev. BOOCH - 143 BnoJlcr Alan ~ You left y0ur lunchhllx at the library. you failed your Blt)lng~ Test and you have ce11ain dev1ant qualitte> 11 Ia \pocket pool,\ but you're '1111 a great guj -The Big C. WRnted: Strat-0-Ma!lc lootball pla)t:r; for winter term. All .thme tntere~ted in participating or with ahy question' contact Lance.at 370-6732. C <Olleen: You'll alway' he the apple nl out· eye - Crackers and Cheese. !Je More Aggressive. Dear Joan, Wishing yo.u aH the be'l on your Birthday! Lo>e. Mady. Xaviera: if you think Bob is good, please come out of retirement, t tauaht him everything he knows!! •·•Duke** P.S. Just ask Bob, he knows where to find me. Has anyone ·ever re11lized that Lester Weiss' last name could. be interpreted to actually mean \Whys'!\ Also, has anyone understood anything at all in the cartoons Lester draws? We haven't, and for this reason, we, the Lester Weiss Interpretation Council recognize t~t our task is an ·impossible one. We hereby would like to rename ourselves ttie Lester Weiss \Aw what the hell'' Cryptographic Heirog!yphic Club- or less formally, the \Huh'!\ club. Naney, How about some curly noodles sometime? Amy. Nancy, Cindy, Jamie, Sarah :Lee Vennis, Debbie, Allyne, Deb, Rich. Low, Squeege, Kris, and Lisa .•. - Than~t for everything for my birthday ~ it was a fantastic lime - Judy_ I, the Human- Lance, would like to announce to the .campus that f am no longer obsessed with death. In fact, I rarely even think of the subject anymore. Why if anyone even brings it up again, 'I'll kill ~m. But why bother'! We'll all be dead soon anyway. Jimmy ••• 1 mean ~Eight-Ball\ - The name; will never catch on so, just between the 2 of us, we .!Jetter work on a new one. \\Piss-face\ will never work (descriptive nicknames never do) - \'Geek\ is already taken- how about \'Smeg which is short To thu Unyun Colij Communickity: As Lesstur Weiss'is muther, l cank ungerstund wiy everec wun .keapes macking Jon of hymn. Oui tbimk bee macks purfikt cents hear att hoam\ - Misses Lesstur Whyses mothurd Luxe Bob: bow much do you weigh anyway? Dear J. L. That last personal stunk! It was nothing like I ex_pected. By the way. do you have five dollars I can l>orrow.'! If you don't bave it now, I'll go to S. H. at graduaticn ('7~) and borrow it from nim. He'll have it by then anyways. A. R. MK and MA: No rush but the Steuben's been ordered. HL ..... Thank you for my life. I love you for always. - MSM To Darrel Wease R.A.; Please get a phone installed in your room, the boys on 3rd floor D. North are tired of taking messages for you. Dear Mt1ddy - I'm developing Blisters. Suzi. hi Carmen - ... Oh! 'Beg your pardon. \The caaaaarrrrr\ - Herman Sedillo Cat Stole close out ~ limited edition, French deisgn, cheap. See Mikey - 3!2 D. DP - The IT International Weekend is coming up soon. I suggest you start to prepare yourself. - A. Attention all goodlooking Soccer p1ayers - Shirts are in, finally ... You may pick them up from your even better looking entrepreneur in the library Thursday evening, Nov. Jg from 7:30 to H. llook forward to seeing you. Spark. Inc. Rock - After an impressive 24 111 your rookie year you seem to have ~lowed considerably. Is it a result of s sophomore jinx, or is Jeanne on the lloor that much!?!?!'!!? Your '\X\ Dear Matt - 1: wasn'i really a dog. It was a camel. ·In search of inner peace? -join Mikey and Ferd each Wed .. night to split doors in quest of truth, serenity, and meaningful existence. 0-WOW-OMMMM. Sigma Cbi - A glee club ;ou ain't' Take some vo1ce lessons. To·Dick -You owe me a dollar and by the way. how is the right arm'' - M .J Alan - Bel vou can't wait to find out what February bnng~. Ha~ L(l\C, Krt·,km Jerome and M. S. Morgan - ~nrr~ '.your f~rtunes ; may ha>c heen rn\~J up. Signed, Contmed. · Ellen J u't though! I'd \Hite something to embarra\ you. b~ the wa1. Da\e and I both knov. \\hat \ happt·mn~ next week. periodically 'peakmgll !.ole' Mikey. Sigma Chi - Hn11 come \I.e 11t'\lcr gel to hear you 'igned. 1lw 01 HFR 'il[ll ot Richmond I Dear Joan, W1sh I could be hud, 'l::ast'\ for your Birthday. Hope all your ~•~he' come true. Love, Bill. TK and NH - Thanks for the JV. SCCC needs your leadership ability and honesty - signed, Disgruntled Bert - happy birthdav - H and M Anyone wanting to hear Silly Boy's sexy voice, tune in to his show on WRUC, Thurs, nite from 11-2. Ausgezeichnet! My Last offer (for this term that is) - $82;617 for a tnesis! MK and ST: l~m not going MA To the Union Jazz Ensemble - A dot over the note means spaced, guys!!! Pete, .bring it down two points. Ronnie, Tltnk of the most cr~ative, thoughtful~ personal possible. It's yours! Love me. Nadine - Am l really that scary'! ... the candy man L.C. - lm .~oing to nm out of gas. Dear Glux ..,.. You and Jerry, what a cute couple ~ Love, Harris. Dear Zard ....,. We are all so happy that you have come to appreciate the finer things in life;_ models, \ters etc. ~ Affectionately, your brothers Cheryl, You would put Ginger Rogers to shame ... Tbanks f<lr a fun Friday. Charlie Tuna Fish. Tonight is a night for love and affection. Sally - fly like an eagle and kiss like a fish. Maybe sometime I'll get my wish - Love Michael and we both know what that is!! Dear John and Teddy, Due to the financial situation of Sigma Phi, we are requesting that you 'two pay social dues for your wives by December I st. The ma!l!l~ment. J. ...., They might make )flU sick. Sincerely, H. 1\.1. B .• To S. B. - I dedicaste the tollowing songs, \Get CloseJ;:,\ \If you Ltave Me now,\ \I'd Rea:lly Love to see you1tonight,\ \Wishing. you Were Here.\ Love $1. L. Second Floor West Girls,l What happened on tbe 13th??!'?? All the) guys of second floor West. Michael Heinz .does NOT stJave his palms. (he uses nair) Has anybody yet seen Santa <.taus? Who was the beautiful bird sitting not too far from in the Pub on Nov. ltJ, 11:45 pm? M. Third floor Carnegie definitely la> the best -bathrooms in the school. 4th .flcor west ..... your mother The feast of the .\Big Bird\ I> hear don't forget Nov. 25! Michael Silly Boy '- saw Deb, Barnel atd Duo last weekend. !fad 2 free hot fudge u·ndae; and a great time. Do you knov. · nyone officially going to Cornell th~; I-n\' .Rich B. is perfect in e\crythtng! It you don't believe rne ask him. Hello, My Favorite Martian. Where arc you? -- The Captain Dear Seymour, HAPPY AN'-iiV}:RSAR Y! Love and K 1\c'. Samantha GP - Nice 14. H1m did r\kl ta~e It! CJ.- :-.:ice uame. YAW\ Eirth to . ( ap. \\ideo l .nth t<• car \ 1d~''· \\'hnc. What. V. hn a1c )<>u: Pete, she's mine! Page 17 Smith House - Way to go' • ,; ·BG. B. L. ·B. B., I h.1m- ,. \l>lttng WRUC Sat ... A.M. Jim C - \A house 1> a h••u,, Jnd a bike is a bike.\ Fan of And} Gill! m Dear Mom and Dad - At least you'll understand this one. Everything is fine. Looking forward to the sun. - Love, H H More Carpet: FINALLY! Happy Birthday. (a little early. but what do ,you want?) J. L. - Congratulations, you won tic lac toe ~ I concede. You are cordially il).vlted to the wedding March, 1978 - Your almost married friend Dear Dick - A few changes and no one will ever know your gati paper was really written ten years a~o at N. Y. U. Second l:<loor West GiJ:I~, Bewdre the 20th!!!!! All the guys of second fiClor west To the unknown beloved thi; and my own good wishes. Do you get it?? Go round about. Dear Boyg, Do you get it'!'! The Boyg just doesn't understaqd. Second ~\Ioor West, Thanks for helping me keep my sanity Friday night. K.L Ritz? W~ta cracker! munch, crunch, munch - H~rman monster Dear Joe1 do you get it'! Rakers -, Get rid of those parachutes and get a pa!r of pants that fit. Little Ed - We meant to send you a personal, b1ft we didn't thin~ Concordy wanted to waste the ink.- B. H. & J.G. MSM - I couldn't re,I>t. Onl\ two erms to go. · HL HH = You're a chicke11! Teaser, \~till F~iendsT Stop b} and show me you lcare. G. Z. Nancy BrOIV - Happy 2ht I '\e Your Buddies~ Dear lip - You were great 1n hed last night. Signed. Your Right Hand Dear Jim- I love you. R. K. Dave Jo:. - Commg soon at a telephone booth near you!'!! D.S. & P.M. - We low )<''' e~en 1f ,ou are TV at!ldicts like the rN ·'' us. the boys TB - Wh_v must you ah\\'' 'mile? !See pages,. vol. 106, no. 7) Hand Carved turkey tor '' ·' holtda) plca;ure. Contact Mike), \1 H t:<>t>l ol Martial and Culinary Arts. Helmets off 'to all those ~tuds \lw w'e ~>• the occasior at the 2nd annu,tl 1.\'.:b,tcl fJ,,u,c him Fe,tl\al ~I!!IICJ. I he Babysitter. ADK - do your chimes rin2? I. and C ···' ·,I ,, ' ,,. ··,•. !. '',

Name the CoCfeehoqset Give the u.c. ~;offeehoqse ~ good name and 1 or logo and :we'll give you a l;lOod butz! A case of Mol~on'~ Golden to be exact! Submit all en~ries to Mr~. Marra\ office by Friday, Nov. 19, and we'll announce the winner ('or winner~) tight atter thanksgiving. Do It now-! Seniors: anyone interested in ~u bmitting thoughfijl reflections on the UnioiJ CoUe.!,le expedence·(i.e. short essays, poetry, etc;) to be printed in O\lf Union Bpok, please contact Ann, BilX 503,. 377,9897·. Wanted: Responsib.le s1udent1 housesit~er.for Winter term, Call 6213. Roommate Wanted ..- Seeking male roommate to share off~ampQs apartment, beginnin.$ wiriw term. Separate study area, livmg room, kitche11, bath. Preferably not too into studying, n2s a month, utilities Included. Please call any~ime or wilh any questions - 370..M21f. All those tl!llt are interested 1n pickiQg up a .free W{itin~ booklet from Stu~ent Activitie!; se~ Mrs. Marra, There ts a limited supply, ;md.first come, first ~erw. The ooter .lounge of the Student Activities Qffice is open every day dqring lunch hQ!,lr, f()r studyil)g and'! or general gatherings. Area Collqe Students ;tre invited to become volunteer workers with thcr Eleanor Roosevelt Develo,pme.ntal Services. Opportunities .for volunteer~ include Physical Training Assistan~~. Education· Aides ~nd Generai Recreation Workers. Call 370..7405, To aU those 'Who rdled out a Stut!enl Phone Dlr~lory que5tio~ire; We haven't forgotten abottt you. Regrettably things have come up. We will put the directory out as soon as possible. Thanks for your patience. lf you've got some spat:e time and would like to do ~ome typiQg for the directory, ple:)s~; con.ta~t me, Brian Heaps. at 370-6427. , Place Oiders for 1917 Yearbook in Student Activities Office with' MrS. Marra now. Price $5. For seniors and $8. for others. SailfJIS! The Sailing <lt1b will ha.ve a meeting Thursday, Nov. 18. This meeting will be to elect officers and discuss the future of the club. Tbe meeting will be held at SS II 0 at 7:30. To people with experience in . theatre . liJ~iltioz: If you are interested in designing lights for Mountebanks' product'iQn of Shakespeare's Twelfth Night next term, please leave your name, ·room, ·box, and phone number in my mailbox in the Nott Memorial Theatre Green Room, and i witt get in touch with you. Than,k you,. Peter Crames, Mountebanks Tecl:micalStafL LOST AND FOUND Lost: Silver medallicm in shape of A;;;t~c calendar, approx. I inch diameter. Reward. Please contact ·Robert at 370;.()312 or Box 144 To wbom it may concern on the 3t!i floor S. Davidson, \Lost~· one white gold class ring wfgreen stone bearing initials P. J. I woulq really like it return~d. Thanks!' Contact P1:1e 361 For Sale: Fischer Ski, 2.05 m, Marker binding, $40, - (boots free), call Michael 372-7026 For Sale: Technics by Panasonic 2{4 channel receiver. 35 watts per channel. Amazing cortditi9Jl' For a look qr a listen call John 370-6412: For Sale: Camaro (1970). V8. Good condition. Call377-4904. Boots For Sale: L .L.Bean insulated boots size 10 in excellent condition. Offers. Peter Berick Box 897-6138, . Books: Cheap!!! All nine books used in f. E. 30-The Grotesque, are for sale. Great condition. Contact Martha 370,-6143. Boots For Sale: Frye Light Brown, 16\ Women's 7!6, in excellent condition, worn only three times. $50.00 or less. Will consider. Ann, 303 North, or call ... 346• 9220. Must Sell: 1967 Vofkslvagon <:onver-tible. Needs new battery. Has four new tires. Cyndy 346-9369. L NEED A RIDE HOME Cor vacation. Let the WRUC ride board help you. Leave ~our name, dates leaving and returning and destination at the WRUC studios. If ~ou need riders, the ride board can also help you. :rhe ride board is aired at 10:30 am. 6:25 PM and 10:30 PM. Riders wanted to share cxp~nse~ to Pruvidence, and only Providence. in Rhode l.sland. Leitving Tuesday evening or ~•dnesday morrting Nove(nber 23. 24. (all Ira, 372-1681. · Ride wanted DESPERATEL \' t~ Bu!Talo lur Thanksgiving Vacation. Can lea~e early, Marjie 370•3039. CONCORDIENS/S, Wedftesday, Nov. 17, 1976 :The Classlnecr.s P•ge- of the New CONCURUlJo.fliSIS i$ 'prim~riJy a stUd~nt se;.:vi~e; as such, .,j; : ntaterial sqbmitted will .be published FREE of charge. To insure that the items submitted are · prfnte~~ all copy Ml:l'ST be in by Monday 21.t 8:00 PM. Items to 'be repeated' must have tile .number of runs specified. The Union Col~ge CONCORDIENSIS assumes no responslbiPty for typographle~tl·ertors, but will print a correetlon. If yeu want a dde, or you ha-ve something to sell, or you simply w,ant to se~ so~ethlng of your ()'Wn printed up in_ a major world publication, PLEASE, don't hesitate! This is a FREE service~ so take :JdV!lntage of it. If you wislt. to submit! · · rnateriai which conforms .to the fonnat of the Classifteds 0 npe. simply sUp it under the Concordy . Omf:e dOQr (3rd floor Ca~egle) argi-ve to. Todd Miller 21.4 West. .. . . ~ .. - - ' . ~ide Wanted to N.H. (Maine or north- elst Mass. will do) fQr Thanksgiving, leaving eithet Tues, Nov. 23rd, or We~!., Nov. 24th. Please caU Kathy at370\6765. Ride !»ffered to boston area -- Tl!esday afternoon or Wednesday morning. Call Cindy at 374-3281. · Judy needs II ri!Je to BQSton or surrounding area for Tbank.sgiving vacation. I Will sladly share . expenses: Please call me <tt 306-6800, 207 West - thanx Ride needed desperately to Philly atea for Thanksgiving. -<:aU Nancy in 308 North, 346•92-20; Riders wanted to Washiil1ton D •. c . · Tti~s; Nov .. 23 Oiv!l Marcus a call at ()570 Cervantes - Okay, halfway. How:! Why do-you call yourself Cervantes'! Elizabeth Daniel~· at J 70-~541 is inJeresterl, in contacting other persons who would -like to meet once a wee~ to cook and .eat an epicurean ml!llt All expenses would be shared ¢qually. Box 2176 E. T. - What's over may not necessarily be over. In the meantime, What's the differena:? · lst 'Flqor ·Foll - Q.irts - why don't you just adcl 2 more rooms to the apartment? Another new club is here! The club, to be known as the \Pinb;ill Jargon Socie!y'' · has been fillly finded by Student 'fax and is .ready ·toenlisi its first member1;, To join • one !llUSt understand the difference between \Kn~irtg\ the.; bail and the \severe Affy.~ Also, one must be able to name 12 terms that r~fer ~o the ~Spin 'n' Spot\ other than \Back Door,~ \Poop Chute,\ and- the more common references to female :anatomy. \Pl-acing;' .. Punching,\ ·~Round the World,\ \Get the. hell outa here, Geek,\ ''Hersheying\ {often confused with the aforementioned iiem) and the \Lan~Lurch\ are all examples of jargon that apply to only one of the machines in the Skeller. Join the fun now! Just slip y9ur name al)d phone number into box 2.97 and remember: \getting it up the Wow hole\ is the ~ltimate jn pinball fun. Today's trivia: why do they call it 'pinball' anyway'! VS & Coleen ..._ Contfary to popular belief. you are two of the more out1itand-ing and beauJ.iful girls on this campus. - Dave. Moff ,... I don't get mad - I get even. Xaviera - Hve been trying to meet you: I've gQt motion,_ rhythm and a lot more than, Y9U have ever had before. One evening 11nd yol.t~ll undoubtably retire. Call- Bob, 377\1837 · \A gift gi\<en unsought, no matter how slight, is more dear than a multitude of riches expected, especialty at 2:3Q.\ Love. Heard a gaod cripple joke lately? Please send it to Box 0818 with your name and address and phone number. Will pay $50 for every joke that appears in my book whi:n it is published. Duke - Could I have just· one more iesson? You know where to find me. W / M / C11licasiail I Teenager desires M f F Companion - Send applications with or without picture. The kinkier the better. Reply to Box 081 ~. All applications will be answered. Love, Box OB Ill (applicants .need not be over 18) . .I am an equal opportunity solicitor. Tseumoto: I really, really, love you! To Debbie - My favorite \pencil shpatperier,'' we're such go~d friet\ds and have sc much in common - Mickev. BOOCH- 143 B\nger Alan - You left your lunchhnx ·at the library. yo.u failed your Brt)lng~ Test and you have certain deviant qualitie~ it Ia \.pocket p0ol,\ but you're '!til a great guy -The Big C. W~r~ted: St1·at-O-Mattc football player> for winter term. All .those interested in participating or with ally que&tions contact Lance at 370•6732. Colleen:. You'll alwavs be tl1c apple of our eye -- Ct·ackers and- Cheese. Be More Aggressive·. Xaviera: if you. think Bob .is good,. please come out of retirement, -t iaught him everything he knows!! ••Duke** P.S. Just ask Bob, he know~ where to find me. Has anyone ever realized that Lester Weiss' last name could be ·interpreted to actually ·m.ean uwhys'!\ A.lso, has anyone understood 1,1nything at all in the cartoo.ns Lester dr11ws'l We haven't, and for this reason, we, the Lester Weiss interpretation Council recognize that our task is an impossible one. We hereby would like to rename Ot.!~selves the Lester Weiss ~Aw wh<tt the. he!!'' Cryptographic Heiroglyphic c;lub .__ or less formally, t~e \Huh'r club. Nancy, H:ow about some curly noodles sometime? Amy, Nancy, Cindy, Jamie., Sarah J.ee !Jennis, Debbie, Allyne, Deb, Riel!. Low, Squeege, Kris, and Lisa ... - Thanx. for everything for my birthda,y - it was a fantastic lime- Judy. I, th~ Human Lance, would like to announce_ to the campus that 1- .am no longer obsessed with death. tn filet, I rarely even think of the; subject anymore. Why if anyone even brinjls it up again, i'll kill 'em. But why bother? W-e~U aU be d~d soon anyway. iimmy ... 1 Rle~n \Eigbt·Billl\ - The name will never catch on so,. j-ust between the 2 of us, we -better work on a new one. \Piss-face\ will never Work (descriptive nicknames never do) ~ \Geek\' is already ta·ken - how about ~sme_g, ~ which is short To lhu ·unyun··collj Communickily: As Lesstur Weiss'is muther, 'l cank ungerstund wiy everee wun :keapes mackinll fon of hymn. Oui tbiink hee macks purfikt cents hear all hoam. - Misses Lesstu~ Wbyses mothurd l.ar&e Bob: how much do you weigh anyway? Dear J. L. That last personal stunk! It was nothing like I el(pected. By the way. do you ha'le five dollars- l can borrow.:! If you don't have it now, I'll go to S. H. at graduation ('7.9) and borrow it .from him . He'll have it by then anyways. A. R. MK and MA: No rush but the Steuben's been ordered. Hi. ,... Thank you for my life. I love you for always. - MSM To Darrel Wease R.A.; Please get a phone installed in your room, the boys on 3rd floor D. North are tired of taking messages for you. Dear Muddy - I'm developing Blisters. Suzi. hi CarmeQ - ... Oh! 'Beg your pardon. \The caaaaarrrrr\ - Herman Bedillo Cat Stole clQSe out - limitec! edition. French deisgn. cheap, See Mikey -- 312 D. · DP - The IT international Weekend i~ coming up soon.- I _suggest yo~ start to prepare yourself. ~ A. Attention all i,ioodlooking Soccer players -· Shirts are in, fina-lly ... You may pick them up from your even better looking entrepreneur in the Iibrary Thursday eVening, Nov. I~ from 7:30 to H. I look forward to seeing you-. Spark. Inc. TK ~nil NH - Thanks lor the JV. SCCC needs your leadership ab1hty and honesty - signed, Disgruntled Bert .- happy birthdav - H a11d M A11yone wanting to hear Silly Boy's sexy voice. tune in to his show on WRUC, Thurs, nit~: from 11-2. Ausgezeichnet! My Last Qffer (for this term that i~) - $8~,617 for a thesis! MK and ST: I'm not going MA To the Union Jazz Ensemble .... A dot over the . note means spaced, guys!!! Pete, ·bring it down two points. Kqnnie, Tbnk of the most creative. thoughtful, personal possible. It's yours! Loveme. · Nadine - Am I really that scary'! ... the candy man L.C. - lm 1oing to filii out of gas. Dear. Glu11 - You and Jerry, what a cute couple - Love, Harris. Dear Z.rd - We are all so happy that you have come to appreci_ate -the finer things in life~ models, \ters etc. ~ Affectio11ately, your brothers Cheryl, You would put Ginger Rogers to shatne ... Thanks for a fun Friday. Charlie T un;t Fish. Tonicbt is a night for love and affection. Sally - Fly like an eagle and kiss like a fish. Maybe sometime I'll get my wish - Love Michael and· we both know what that is!! Dear .John and Teddy, Due to the financial situation of Sigma Phi, we are requesting that you two pay social dues for your wives by December 1st. The J111!!illginent. J. - They might make }I>U sick. Sincerely, H. M. B .. To S. B, - I dedicaste the tollowing songs, \Get Closer,\ \If you Ltave Me no. w,\ \I'd Really Love to see you Atonight,\ \Wishing you Were Here.\ Love tl. L. Secoml Floor West Girls, What happened on the 13th??'!'!'? All th~ guys of second floor West. Michael Heinz does NOT shave his palms. (he uses nair) Has anybody yet seen S~nta <..taus? Who was the beautiful bird sitjing not too far from in the Pub on Nov. If], I I:45 pm?M. Third floor Carnegie definite!) m' the best bathrooms in the school. ~t!l flo!)r west - your mother The feast of the .\Big Gird'\ \ ~ear don't forget Nov. 25! Michael Silly Boy - saw Deb, Barney atd Duo last weekend. Had' 2 free hot fudge undaes and a great time. Do· you kno\\ · nyone officially going to Cornell this 1-ri'' Rock - After an impressive 24 rn :our rookie year you seem to have ~lowed considerably. Is it a result of s sophomore jinx, or is Jeanne on the floor th<tt much!'!!?!?!? Your \X\ Dear Matt - 1: wasn't really a dog. It was a cameL Rich B. is perfect in e\erything! lt you don't believe me a~k him. ·In search of inner peace? ~join Mike) and Fetd e&ch Wed; ,n.ight to split doors m q_uest of truth, serenity, and meaningful existence. 0-WOW-OMMMM. Sigma Chi - A glee club :you a111't! Take some voice lessons. To· Dick - You owe me a dollar and b) the w~y. how is the right arm'? - M.J . Alan - Bet you can't v.ait It\> lind out what February brings. Ha! Lmc. l)rc,hrn. Jerm,te and M. S. Morgan - :-,,Jt r) '.your fortunes ; ma) have been mi\cJ up. Signed, Contused. Ellen Just thought I'd IH!It' something to embarra\s ~ou. by the 11a.,. Dave and I both know what \ happ~mng next week, periodically 'peaking 1 ! lo\c' Mikey. Sigma Chi - H nw cntnc• lie nt•llc'l gl'l to hear Vt)U 'igned. the 0 l H FR 'iiD I of Rtch~ond , - Dear Joan 1 Wish I could be bad ·rn~t·• Hello, My Favorite Martian. Where arc you? - 1 he Captain Dear Seymour, AJ>< t\ IV]: RSAR Y! Love Samantha HAPPY and K1\e'. GP - Ni~ I4. Hm1 did Mel take 11.' CJ ..... Nice \game. Y A \V\ l:,rth tu ( ap. Video, !.uth ''' l\l' -\ t<kt>. Whcr~. What. Who are )OU • CORNELL - ride needed to, thi~ rn. the 1 9th. Please call Strkc at 346-9205. Will 'h,rre c~pertses. , Dear Joan, Wishing :vou all the bc~t on your Birthday! Love. Mady. · for your Birthday. H<'Pe all your wbhc' come true. Love, Bill. Pete, she's mine! Page l7 Smith House - Way to gn' •.l BG. B. L. B. B., lh~n•· ,. \l>ttmg WRUC Sat ... A.M. Jtm C - \A hou&e !& a h\'\' Jnd a bike is a bike.\ Fan of And} Gull ill• Dear Mom and Dad - At least you'll understand this one. Everythrng is fine. Looking forward to -the sun. -- Love, H H More Carpet: FINALLY! Happy Birthday. (a little early, but what do :you want?) J. L. - Congratulations, you won -tic tac toe - I concede. You are cordially invited to the wedding March., 1978 - Your almost married friend Dear Dick - A few changes and no one will ever know your gati paper was really written ten years ago at N. 'f. U. Second l<loor West Girts, Beware the 20th!!!!! All the guys of second floor west To the unknown belOved thi& and my own good wishes. Do you get it?! Go J:ound about. Dear Boy&, Do you get it'~ The Boy& just doesn't understaqd. Second lfloor West, Tl)anh for helping me keep m~ sanity Friday night. K. L. Ritz? Wjlta crac.ker! munch, crunch. munch - Hj:rman monster Dear Joe,: do you get it? Rakers -, Get rid of those parachutes and get a pailr of pants that fit. Little Ed - We meant to send you a personal, b1ft we didn't think Concordy wanted to waste the ink.- B. H. & J.G. MSM - I couldn't rehl~t. Only two erms to go. - HL HH - You're a chicken! Teaser, \~till Friends?~ Stop b) and show me you lcare. G. Z. Nancy Brow - Happy 2 ht I \'e Your Buddies~ Dear lip - You were great '\ bed last night. Signed,, Your Right Hand Dear Jim - !love you. - R. R. Dave 1!:. - Commg soon at a tele!Jhone booth near you!!! D.S. & P.M. - We loH~ ~'\' even if ~ou are TV a~dicts like the re't ··l us. the boys IB - Wtiy must you a!\\'' 'mile? 1 Sec page s,. vol. I 06. no. 7) Hand Carv~:d turkey IN ', .. · hnl•daj pleamre. Contact Mike)>, \1 H enol o! Martial and Culinary t\rb. Helmets off to all those stud' \hn ~'~\e to tht? occmioi• at the 2nd annual \\ d\ter llou'c him Fet.tt\al ~1gned. lhe Ba hysttter. A 0 K - do your chirncs rinl!? I. and ( .. . ' :: i ;I l '. ''· , I .i _,

Page 18 CONCORDIENSIS, Wednesday, Nov. 17, 1976 Checrleading squad. We are a group of enthusiastic girls wh(l enjoy cheerleading and bDosting the moral of Union College sports events. We are not a part of the athletic department as of now, and our seni<:es are completely voluntary with no recognition of faculty :.upport. However, we practice 5 times a week, 2 hrs. a day, in an effort to increase th.e spirit of our ggm~s. We do try to encourage speeiators at a game to cheer along. However, unless the crowd is willing to 'support us, our efforts are futile. I do not think it is possible for us. or an}one else to force a crowd of spectators to cheer. wntrng a tetter··''W ·'eonelltcl)'\ Sur<!', our- team lost the Middlebury game, but they still des.erve to be cheered on until the final whistle, anq if the Union College student a-n<l/or faculty- staff refuses to back them, they can at least feel some 1--omfort in the fact that there are six girls who win cheer. them on. the~~~··-- w~ have to w.ork. with: . Ye~ we will persist to haunt Memorial Fieldhouse and Alexander Field. next faiL Maybe you, Charlie. would like to help us in cur ··much more · wotlld\' ·nave···· '!we,w· accomplished if yuu at 1east ··· m~~····a,~·bl!l\'1!\J; · responded with a loud U when we · ·Plt~¥-H~>,'lw·w<··~''*'·' asked the crowd to cheer- atong. ..,,..,\'\'~\''\·''\•''''-:@..'('\''''~'(11.#\is~ In addition,, we are acceptin'8 male cheerleaders. sihoO'kt'theytty · oot -for the ·- $quath'·' ¥'0\l\' al\e'\-····4- f'¥ \''h' cordially invited to try·'l)ttt foTthe \'. ....... c,c .... ,..~--·\·•···\'\'='t:li~l·l~a!d Union CoUege Varsity Basketball hands with the opp-osing teams even after being 'slaughtered' --- wiu:re is this 'intense <:ompetition' then'! · \'In CQfl~lusion. it is O\lr hope that women's sports at Union will remain in the true spirit wit-h which they originated ... \ lf this wiginated from the t.:II~Ktll~~~o~n with Prof. K erslmer on Jet me ,11uint out .•• ,.,,~.·--·~\'····~ 1\Pt to any wonlen's teant$. All we are asking for is an equal opportunity· to use the conpetition for \a breeding ground for enjoyment, exercise and fun.\ , either sex have pursued a professional athletic career upoq gradtnition. Y GUr realization that \WoPlen's preceden~ l;Wt$t .. lfam~on J'¥' .. or lntrarnura~? , SJ!orts: {!ere are for- eJ:\iOYffi§l!~ exercise, and fun\ and \intense competition should .. , ,: be. le,ft. on ~he field\ is contro,di'Ctory . f now- a~.,r~, ,my~~~~ . ~.· q;the;r' asp¢eis pf. s~.~~nt .·· Jtf~, W:py siHl,ulp .. f!:At!J:tilcity, members have to, pity;: SiudeQt Af!Q. . . dp§u~~t · to .. m deHnition qf .. ·'!e'lf!\'\\\\ JWJ.!Jtc11-.,~t;D~i100i\!J!l:lt.tb~;m,, · ·· at u. \~\~l;oi\l~'-'· ,., . much ,tnQfe. · · makes .it . solit:l(f a,s,.,df women•l$ intercoH~~i~t~ athletics are glortHed intramura\lt. Just like any of the men's varsity teams, the gWidfllrree of the ce!i¢brated H.ll'rk.tltel;s • on a JV t~m he (us) existedwhen he six moths earlier- that it · irreversibly cut from about Intramural ...... v..,_, .. , ~ho an: forc~d to play at 12 and I in the morning because Schenectady Youth Hockey is paying over 7.0 dollars per hour to use the ice- which also put the J~ ,prqgram out of commission, 1 pre$'ume. We are paying thou~an(;hi_ of dollars a year in order' to piay on our rink on' our campus! Who the hell gave the Town the right to prevent us frum pfayi~g'! I'll tell you who • \&liw \Y,bat happens o* Tru:sda~~: nights in tbe· \. Offke Concordieusls. tt was an amazing sigP,t. lt \Vas obvious that everyon-e on your permanent staff puts- out a great am,Qunt of effort and displays an in\:redible ampun~ of dedication to the paper. f think this explains the succes~ of ('oncordy so far this year. ArtJd.:)> ha vc been informative, • but they have aha been in provocative areas which have been ignored by the paper in the past. lt has made the paper far more interesting. Thanks ·for making (oncordy enjoyab!.c to reac! again! _,_ ___ ,.. - In conditit means suitab ganH:. Union 1 dt:h:mive ga Hamilton Cor ,d IIJ-o. At th !Ia milton's S ~.:on~red with ~nnw with th 40-yard l'incs .,d1ich were d1 tlill L\- Co.n cPillhtions. a \Ia~ L'Kpeeh;d nwst likely hi hrcaks v.hich happened. The tempo early as. the defense twice mside the Un hall. Hamiltot position cot turnovers. H o· the offense. quagmire and were committf the entire ball The first s came in the s the aid of a 1 Tom Hood a After being th yard line. And I This week's the week goe Hoster. A n' Ohio. as w, o;upporter o1 Frank was ins triumph ave Saturday, hlocking and Red K 1p Church f)l·an Wilkr~ h lor the \ icto·fl l;;q Saturd; exhibition h• ·\chilies Rink, Roth Chun came up witl :t\SIS(S, leading \ 1ctory over tl crowd of abou ~oals were cor Crawford. Do 11 interberger at While Tom P. C'urrie tallied f( In goal

Page 18 CONCORDIENSJS, Wednesday, Nov. 17, 1976 L . . et ·t· er s , ..... ·'''}11'·::;· ····•i···h·· .. ; ... \'e· ··· ··E···,.d. '. ;l•t··'··.·o· ·· ····r····s· .: .. . · · . · -. . v 1· .. · .. . ·· .. ~, · ..... · · ····· ... Chcerlcading squad. We arc a Sure, our team lost the group of t.:nthusiastic girls who Middlebury game, but they still enjoy chcerleading and boosting deserve to be cheered on until the the moral· ol Union College »port~ final whistle. and if the Union events. We are not a part of the College student and/ or faculty~ athletic department as uf now. staff refuses to back them, they and our services are completely can at least feel some comfort in voluntary with no recognition of the fa<::t that there are six girls faculty :-upport. However, we who will cheer them on, practice 5 times a week, 2 hrs. a regardless. day, in m1 effort to increase the I do admit that our squad is spirit of our games. We do try to small, and that the voices of such encourage spectators at a game to a small squad may not carry far cheer along. However, unless the enough, but that is the group' that crowd is willing to support n~. we have to work with: Yes. we our effort~ arc futile. J do not will persist to haunt Memorial think it is possible for us, or Fieldhouse and Alexander Field, anyone d:-;c to force a crowd of next fall. Mayhe YtlU, Charlie. spectators to cheer. would like to help us in our hands with the opposing teams even after being 'slaughtered' - where is thh; \intense competition' then'! \In conclusion. it is our hope that women\s sport;. at Union will remain in the true spirit with which they originated ... \ lf this article originated from the discUs$lon with Prof. Kershner on Nov. 7, let me point out that half of the p~ople there, including some of the most outspoken ones, do not belong to any women's teams. All we are asking for is an equal opportunity to use the conpetitiDn for \a breeding ground for enjoyment, exercise and fun.\ either sex have pursued a preceden-ce over Hamilton JV professional athletic career or lntrarnurals'! upon graduation. Your 1 n()w address myself tQ realization that \women's other\ tt.spects of student life. snorts here al'e for enjoyment, Why should fra,tern.ity exercise, and fun\ and \intense members have to pay Student competition should .. · be left :r ax? And why does the scbool on the field\ is contradictory insist on selling on-campus to my de fin it ion of houses (which absolves. them intercollegiate athletics. from aH maintenance Granted, sport is defined as a re-sponsibilities) rather than means of recreational rer;t tbe.oo to frats.wbo r:eqq11~~ enjoyment, but intercollegiate toom {e.g. Sigma Chi)'l And l athletics is much more. Your think the students shout!l have article makes it sound as if more of a say in who gets women':s intercollegiate tenure and who doesn't. After athletics are .glorified all, we are the ones who su.ffer intramural:~. .I ust like any of in the long run if an able the men's varsity teams, the teacher is fired. Students As lor you, Mr. Hanagan, I did efforts and join our squad. We not notice you, as a part of the would love to have yciu and . . . ,, Sinc::~.r~l}' ~ . WQmen. atbleteS<.'<J,te· .. Pl;tt• . .to. ... :win lo for@al~.Y_>-·:•'J!~·\''\'~-~~WE~MJW D~bra s. Schwartz '19 for .• themselves ·and t4e college process, An.,q ~Y''~\' . crowd, join in our cheering, even anyone else help us, bu.t UJ1ti,:. you when we asked specifically for do, please refrain from your crowd participation. Ra.ther than destructive, non-produ-ctive w. Field l:t . y ' tbey nl~}{t .JOJ\, Tb~· ,,,~\;Qfn~fk • ,PU(:M;tg ; ~J(l'!~\Mk W.' So II athletes (}f Union practice· as . student$ have . . .. writing a letter to Concordy. letters. w. lee Hockey Club long and htud (or their spo'rt deducted tf?ir(, W. Basketball Mana.ger as their comparable men's and p,,,ar{{Jng, .. much more would have been And, next time we yell, \(live accomplished .jf you at !east me a U!,\ we want t(} hear :you, responded with a loud U when we Charlie! To the Editors: asked the <:rowd to cheer along. Sinc~rely, In addition. we are accepting Susan Kay Rl:ltfu.'ltbetg Face,; ·it. Any student who male cheerleaders. should they try CtrCaptabt comes to Union doesn't· out for the squad. You are Union College , Varsity (offieii.Jlly) come for spo.rts. cordially invited to try out for the \, Cheerleaders Rather, we ALL come here for an Union College Varsity Basketball education; one where sports should play a minor role. C'heerleading Squad! Unfortunatdv. tor women at Cheerleaders have been a · · 1 · r · -.-..~.o-men. \l-r·i·te. IP ... ek Union sports have often played .controversta Issue .or some time ...... · u no role. now. It :seems that no matter what k - d 1 h · d To the EA. ;t ... ...,·. When I first arrived at Union . m o c · eenng we o, we are u • ..,...,, criticired. Either we are told that This is in resp-onse to your four years ago, there were no (as we do not do enough actual 'Editorial' \Sporting Eye\ in the in none) intercollegiate sports for cheerleadmg stunts, or when we Nov. 10 issue. The first 4uestion women. ln fact, there wasn't even do that, we do not lead enough that come:s to mind is what is an a female on the athletic staff. h editorial doing on the sports Although the situation improved team. '.l(s ~;tJ?C!J,lt iJffi~.\'!;\l~J tb(! ....... SUSpended. WQeri. •A¥<u·;.l' ~itors. of ~Q'DC9f4~£9Si:~ and are mer~jf ign~·re(}. every.pne In the· U nlon ag:o, <iver ?0 % .community realize that uricoUe~ted in faculty.,...,_,~\'·''ik .women's sports are not a joke Th€se are jWit a few or a mea us ryf exercise. lake a ones that st_and out\ in. fl)Y loo,k at the women's program!! mind. The thing that both~!? offered at other N ESCAC me most is first, why was t~~ schools: I demand a pub!i~ JV program rut, and S.et;(l.p.d, retraction of your November why Harkness . never tGld 10, editorial or an identical those tryi.l).g out for .. the article written on men's sports Hocke-y team that there never with every word girlchangedto was and never will be a JV boy. team this year when when b.e Sincerely, knew six months earlier_ Why C'athy Reals '78' did he dupe us? lt is: very Women's Athletics unfortunate that Prof. Kershner was blamed for this gross deception when h~ had c.~~:;· the first time in 4 years. I page'? Second. what information slightly with the hiring of one b~licve .that we have an organized did you base your writing on? person to cover all women's group ol cheerleaders. who \Any girl who comes to Union teams. this yuar's \program if 1110re j.\\~ • boekey practice. are concerned about doesn't <:orne for sports.\ Since one is kind enough to label it as ·nothing to do with it. I sinc~rely hope he will try to amend this situation. h h . such, is a trav.:st>_ ·. cheering. and have the ability to t ere are no athletic scholars tps. cheer. 1 also believe we haw there should b-e no men here for Smt:e the resignation of Shelia To the Edito-rs: approached ., a happy medium just sports either. \Rather she Weaver {June 1976}. the athletic For whom is Union College ·,c• ..... een leading the crowd, comes for a pre~professional department has once again been functioning'! l have never seen boosting the team's spirit, and education. one where sports play without a lull . time coach for such a profit~oriented Center proving our abilities with a minor role.\ So do the men. ANY women\ sports. rhe results of Learning as the one that is cheerleading stunts. Anyone who ''Therefore. it should be realized of this situation arc devastating. bounded by a solitary brook. was at the Hamilton game last that women's sports here are for Teams have reversed their win An Eco Major would be proud Saturday would probably agree. enjoyment, exercise and fun.\ If records without a major change to graduate from Union for it Fo.r those of you who still wish these were the only reasons, then of players. Required physicals seems Economics •. and not to condemn the cheerleaders, I everyone would play intrarnurals. have gone ungiven, field space Engineering nor Poli Sci, is have two suggestions: Don't There is a bit of competition in and referees ha\!e been canceled this C(}llege's finest knock it until you've tried it. or if everyone whether it's to hetter or changed without proper reason department. you don't actually want to one's position in life or to exc-el or nuti-ce given, and overall, How WDnderful it i~ that.this become a cheerleader, at least on the athletic .. fi:e.ld. Eachl,p¢Jt~~1H'l morale has reached a new low. college attained a rink. Is this ~!r~.\~Jt~rs~~~gN~ot for- our i~i:~~=~~:f .:::P::~;:t(~~;~~ R:.!:~~f:! 1 ~ddi~~:n t~a:~e ~:::i~~ f~:o~~ 0 :ra 1 t~e ~t~:~~ts!at!4. Sincerely, . \Ju!'/.t two years ago,. wom-!!tfs search <:omrruttee for full time ac•ademies with a nt~Jre Allison s. Donenfe.fd · at}llec*:i~lh_._at_.·. Union gained. a vatr&.. ,gzyaches, will be the impetus for extensive athletic program'? Union College CheerJe.ading statu:~· Just -one- year agp men,o•s the rebirth of women's sports at Then why must Freshman. Captain ice hockey gaine4 varsity status. Union. Women are an integral Hockey players . and equally· '\\H-owever; it is unlikely tb:at a part 0 ~. tbis college. We have talented upperclassmen: like WPltl~(f~~,I?~ieJpJit11trg; iQ athl~t!Qh:~ Y:xrY. n~hUo he here: and every myself be forced o.ut of a J\1 'ro the Editors, at,U#iofi,w£Hpursue that spott as ·~1· ·· _ .• bere as any ot~er student. Hockey program due to lack 1 write this letter in the hope h> P·r>,lfessional career.\ How many ~.Jngh!}g out ·· a sec~m ?f an;y of Ice Time'! And then· to clear up some misconceptions tnen do? \ ... Theref1:J~. the .. nrogram 0 0 the basts ol sex ls throw salt in the wounds, past regarding this year's Varsity women's, ,s:,pllrts program ·should · to ,li~ilp@c( .• Alt too .o(t~J;!~)''\;'Warsi.ty members of the team Cheerteading Squad. 1 am be taken, as a .chance for the .~gyh .. , .as the echtQQ~bwwt\YJ);g,,g<Jt cut have been ruled After next year. tuition will go up again. And probably none of the aforementioned ills will he solved. I do not mean to dishonor thi;. school but I think a serious re-evaluation of certain aspects is in order. I like this school a lot ~ l turned down Trinity. Colgate, and Corndl Arts and ScieMe& to <:orne here; but it hurts me to see Freshmen so upsl!t and 1.mdeservedly punisbed · by these inJustices. This seh(}cl's academic stature· witf i.llways remain h·iglt, but· r ·wO:uM,hate to see · <the Ca~pus• ···tl'l!irta!e di:mlnisk I (;art ordy h'{)pe,fh:at SD'rneone who _is capaMe. Wltl make every effurf td resolve · these differehtes between the financiali needs uf · tlJe Administrative ·· ·:Buteaue.rnty · an:d: tlile· -eqttalinttiAI'I tteitdemii.t'· · nnd SOciii:l needs af·thes··~ t'itliilent'\' .. ,. body~ ·· ··- ._.,;: prompted to clear up these false women 1<l compete with their . ··· ~y(: :an lead ,JSikt~%tl\etigibie for Intramural: play. beliefs because of a letter in last p~rs an.{!., l~arn Mmetl!in.g. fro.-m. · wat~red · · 9 eart goes: out.to····tllose· · '· ., ,,,_,.,,,.c:.•,.,·, ·\:. · ... ~~;~~:~~::~~:::: =11=~~:::· .... ~:.~~:~~~<:* ,, ·.' .0.0• :re!~: ~~~~;~se~ 0 a!::!~~:J.f~~~: . =~;i{~'':.:Y;t~~ is·~· · St. ,.It' year is our first full season, and anyone else, rnale ot · coach'! a fine education last week~ for, the first time we arc doing our best. When one learn to rise fr.o-rn these attitude an<l reaction and play under the superb since 'I have betn at Union, r comiders that we went into the and try to improve. This is one same·? Why has there n~ver guidance of the celebrated Ned saw what happens on Tuesday spectator stands at the thing that keeps most of the been a volleyball Qr Jil.ftlf;j, Harkness • on a JV team he nights in the Office of · Middlebury game to prompt women's teams going, (F.ield hockey player of the week1\' ,, told them (us) existed when he Concordiensis. it was an cheering !rum the crowd. and Hockey --3 and 8, 19 7 6; Union may have admitted · knew six moths earlier that it amazing sight. lt was obvious even taught the spectators a Lacrosse-no wins. 1976; wom-en in 1970 but until such :!;la4. been irreversibly cut from that everyone on your sirnple clapping cheer, and still Softball 8 and 2, 1976, etc.). blatant· inequities. as these in the budget. permanent staff puts out a t~-..:~i\ed no re~ponsc, maybe one \ ... This does not mean that athletics and athletic reporting. And how about Intramural great amount of effort and ~houlu abo mnsidcr the fact that women~s. sports should not b-e arc remedied, we will oot be a players who are forced to play display~ an incredible amount 1t rna,: not be our fault. taken seriously ... \ Apparently. coeducational institution. at 12 and I in the morning of dr.!die&tion to the paper. I t\~ a \lJu.tcl. \'e stand and cheer this newspaper doesn't. as shown \We all become O'JE under because S<.:henectady Youth think this explains the Si.lCCc~s t I · 11 d hy the sparse. and often incorrect ·the laws ·of Min··r\.,·t\ Hoell!.\')' i~ ·pa• ing o\.\f 7.{.) nl ·(·(.mr<\'rd·y· ~o f-•r thic vear. \\ J~;r.;\L'I '\<.\ t:,tf.) p l.YS!Ca· Y · 0 ~!l. I ~ \' .J \' ' u \ J nn:rJragc of the women's teams. Sincerelv. dollars p· cr bour to u.·s•• .the 1·,.,. \ .\•rt.JL !.·., h,·J\ •• ·b··\tl ttJior·n·1,·ttr\e, II \\c c.tll un'l~ 111tercst a 1>mati J '\ \''\ - ~ '\'\ I 1 .... h \ ·.hut the i ntrnse competition Ji\Nar)·or.,·e Koltn which also put the JV progra·m r.,.u·t the~ h:•.v•• a.I·.~o .b•· ..... n· in gruup. l J<lt i .... on.y uccatt~e t r: ·• \' _, ·• '\ '\\' r~.:m;ur,.',:: ()I the crowd ~\Its and should he left on the field, not out of commis~ion. I presume. provocative areas which have 1 Jl carried off.\ What docs this We· a.rc pa)'ing thou\.·an·ds o·f h-•'•'n· t\vr·l•Jr\d h}· t·h·· .p,·tp•·r· ,·n. \\d ll hv. •jlllt:l ~. rcgar ·us:- til ou.r \ -~ \' • ~ . ~ • dlu:h \ k\\ Ill ll~ ha\C been mean't f Mt!VC partic.ipatcd lri tfollat!-1 a )Car in orJet tO play tht: past. Jt ha~ made the paper , 1 1 h mtercoHegiatc sport<; here for over To the Editor:'i: on our rink nn our t:.lm_pus'. tat nwr-•· HJt··r··~tinu. I h,·tnks <.lleci' ..... ·,·~~ 1dnrt:. <Hll ·ave -.. ~-.. \' a year :md have ne\·En sct·n In rcsp<nhc to \otu editonal Who the hdl \.t\c the 1 m\n for 1 n~ 1 J... i n<• ( oncord_,, 1 t· n ...... d II o \1 u t I r.: r I) \' \' ' UlllL'·I'· ;, ·~'t: tilt' cro\\u t~. flo~A- anyone cnrry 'the intense appearing on the 'rnrb page the nght to rn:vcnt u~ lrorn enJoyable to n:atl again! Cilll \ .. :; hlamc ll>.. when alter a competrtio.n' ofl the field. unless t.:n.titlcd \Sporting l)c:' k:t's playing? rn tdl you .... h(l - Sincerely. touchtl••\lll \\t.' yelL \{iJ\e me a ynu arc r.etcrring to them striving \Face it.\ 'lo \\oman or man George Washington did~\\.llen Peter Sh()re '77 1 '.\ .~. •! ,, 11 llli:inagcr i~ one ol lor hetter gntdc\> in class. I he vast attends [Inion lor the primary he put his picture 011 the lront Ld. ;-.,; 01 <.'. the \I' i'l'tlpte out ol over .~00 to majority ot wonwn players freely reason d participating m of a nne doHar bill. Does (P .S. You'll be getting your ·stHHH! (not because of custom} shake athletics. 1-~w { :nion alumni of Clinton Youth Hockey take check ir1 the mail. Pete In conditio means suitab game, Union r delen~in: ga1 Ham·ilton Con 111 19-o. At th1 Hamilton's S nl\ t:rcd \ith ~now with th' .tO-yard lines 11 h ich were dl II me. C OF! l<>lH.lttions. a 11a~ expected mo\t likelv hi hreaks v.hi<:h happened. The tempo 1 early as the defemsc twice m side the l1 n hall. Hamiltor position cou turnovers. Hm the offense, lJUagmire and were committe the entire ball. lhe first s, came in the s' the aid of a f lorn Hood at After being tJ;u yard line. And Fran) This week's the week goe~ Hoster. A na Ohio. as wt \Upporter of hank was inst triumph ove Saturday. I hlock ing and 1 Red b~ DA \'E F Kip Church l>ean Willers h, for the \ icto-ri1 laq Saturd< nhihition hl ·\chilb Rink. Both Churc carne up with a,.,ists. leading \ ICtory over t~ crowd of aooul f?oals were cor Crawford. Do. Hinterberger ar while Tom P< Currie tallied fc In goal

CONCORDIENSIS, Wednesday, Nov. 17, 1976 GARNET WINS In conditions that were no rn~ans suitable lor a tootball game. Union .played a very strong J~:kmive game upending thl· Hamilton Continentals by <I score ,,1 IY-6. At the start ol the game, ilamilton's Steuben Field was covered with sc\lcml inches .or ~nllw with the except ion of the 40-yard lines and the goa·l lines \hich were dug out before game trrne. Consider·ing these (tJildrtions. a defensive struggle \Ia~ r.xpectcd with the outcome rnost likdy hinging on Dnc or 2 tnL\aks v.hich I' cxact.ly what happrned. hit tight end lrank I lo.~tt:r on 4th uown on a pattern over the midd lc I i.1 give lJ num a first down at the 2 p nJ line. 1.- rank made a fine ca(ch runmng acw~s the mud on the ahovc play. I hese cnnditinns dclrnitely hampered the passing game today. Three plays later, re~em: back Dave Rufl smashed over !rom the ·one to give Union a 6-0 lead at the half. Page 19 5pOrt5 The tempo of the game w'as set early as the strong Dutchman defense twice stopped Hamilton mside the Union 15 in the first hall. Hamilton received this field position courtesy of Union turnovers. However, in defense of the offense. the field was a quagmire and only 2 turnovers were committed by Union during the entire ballgame. Star-ting the second hall, Union made its own break when Hamilttn1 was ,forced to punt ~Jeep in its Hwn h.:rrHory on 1ts tirst posscsstnn of tlii~ trail Defensive end Hob S·tol!t blol.'ked the Continental::;' punt cleanly and freshman Bob Sullivan picked up the f cotballl on the run and dashed into the end1one to g1ve Union a l2~e lead. Dutchmen's Andy Terranova controls the Garnet offense The first score of the game came in the second quarter with the aid of a fumble recovery by Tom Hood at the Hamilton 16. After being thrown back to the 22 yard line. Andy Terranova calmly At this point. Union was content to play ball controL Ttte Union offense grinded out the clock while the Union defense gave Hamilton yardage in the middle of the field but nothing in Union territory. Hamilton twice drove ·deep into Union territory but came up empty as the result of an interception by Carmen Sanginero and a fumble. Early in the fourth quarter, Union broke the game open.on its most spectacular offensive play of this season. It was by none other than Rich Romer who ran for 84 yards bre;lking numerous tackles enroute. On the way, he showed his :versatility by both bouncing off of the tacklers as well as running over people a Ia Jimmy Brown. Kurt Hamblet then added the point after .to give Union an insurmountable 19-0 lead. The only question at this point was if Union would put together its second shutout of the season. This question was answered when Frank Hoster (left) and Carmen Saginario(right) outstanding gridders of the week Players of the Week This week's offensive player of the week goes to senior Frank Hoster. A native of Columbus, Ohio. as well as an ardent supporter of Woody Hayes, Frank was instrumental in Union\ triumph over Hamilton last Saturday. Frank's excellent hlocking and clutch grabs earned him the Ralph H. Rue Award, an award which typifies the most valuable player in the Union- Hamilton game. \Helicopter\ will be sorelv missed when the Dutchmc~ take to the gridiron next fall. This wce'k's most valuable playc r on defense is freshman Red Team Triumph h)· DAVE FINNEGAN Krp Churchrll and lr~:shman I >can WdJn.., both ~cored) p{>irw, '\r the \ ictono·u .... Red I ean1 in L...,t Saturday\ intras4uad exhihition hockcv game at ·\ch illcs Rink. • .lo\cph1on maJc 44 \;tiC\ lor the Red~ an(] Stc\c Baker turned back 41 ~hub lor the White. The g<!lllC v.a:- the first of 3 cxhioitiom scheduled by the Dutch men lor the 1 consecutive Satmday~ prior to the sea~m1 opener Dec. I at :\ortheastern. Carmen Sangincro. A native of Wayne, Ne\\ Jersey, Carmen played a nearly nawlcss game on defense, helping to extinguish numerous continental drives. A consistant player throughout thi~ season'scampaign, Carmen will be looked upon in years to come to help tighten up the garnet defense. Hamilton put together a scoring drive to make the final score I 9-6 and deprive Union of its second shutout of the season. Looking back on the season, which must be considered a rebuilding year, Union posted a 3- 5 record and showed improvement which should be in evidence for the next few seasons. However, this game is the one which will be freshest in the minds ol all those close to the team when they look back on thts 'season. Keeping that in mind, it was a most impressive exhibition and wiped out all thought~~ of Union retrogressing to last years' level alter the horrendous game last week. Unfortunately, this observer will not be able to witness the lootball team next year but they should be an a we some outfit. Sporting Eye The editorial which appeared m this column last week was included at the prerogative of the Girls' Sports Editors. All editorials that delineate the offi<.:ial editorial policy of this newspaper appear on the appropriate pages. Editorials printed on other pages are the opinions of the specific editors involved. * * * * In reference to the many negative responses received to last weeks editorial Sports and Women at Union, it has become necessary to clear up a few misunderstandings. Firstly, the intent of the article was to emphasize that the gravity with which women are competing should be left on the field, not carried off. Sports are for enjoyment, exercise and fun, and had anyone here, male or female, wanted to pursue a sport as a professional careeer then they should not have come to Union. What the article did llot say was that women arc inferior, women's sports at Union should not be competitive, or that the ~hole women's sports program here should be abolished. If it was mis-read that ·way, then a terrible injustice has been done to the women competing rn mtercollegiate sports at Union. There is absolutely no reason why Union should not have a decent vvomen's sport program, one comparable to the mens. But ' in order to do this. the time and effort of Professor Kershner, acting Athletic Director. must be utilized. Apparently Professor Kershner does not want to place his priorities there, and this is wrong. The women need a full- time Athletic Director to handle their affairs - a prime example is a mix-up in the Field Hockey schedule in which a game was scheduled to have been played that the team was never told about. The women also need full- time coaches for their sports, a part-time coach just never seems to give their team the effort support, and instruction needed when knowing that what they are doing is only ephemeral. The article was not telling the women of Union to \Sit down and shut-up,\ as some believed tl to be. Rather, and to re-state 1t for a third time, competitiOn (on the field, not ofl) should be the breeding grounds for enJoyment, exercise, and fun. Rugmen ·by DEB KAllFMAN La~l Saturdav the t nwn College Rugby Cluh put the season all together hy clarmrng second place 111 the Annual Seven's I ournamcnl in Alhanv. The Ruggers played by far thctr best. Rugby ol the ..,ea~on v.uh Chip hnn and t'hrrs I avlor leading the wa). Chip spurred- the offense on as he ~cored !line and time again throughout the grlidmg seven game tournament. Chm Taylor anchored the defense with his effective and punishing tackles. Once again, cool Harvey Friedman came through in the clutch with his surehandedness at the fullback position. Honors and metals must be awarded to John Brown, Bruce ''Weasel\ Pullman, Dave DiMarco, and Mark Roth Churchill and Willers rarne up with 2 goals· and 3 <t\stst~. leading the Red to an g_2 1 rctory over the White before a rrowd ol ahout 2.()00, Other Red !!nals were contributed by Peter Crawford. Do.1 Marshall. Brad IJinterberger and Mike O'Connell While Tom Pahapill and Dave \urrie tallied for the White T earn. In goal freshman Dave lhe .game v.as played for the benefit l)f the Union Glee Club to help finance a planned tour of Vene1ucla. lhe Glee Club will also receive the proceeds from the final exhibition game while this Saturday's game is to benefit .the Schenectady Youth Hockey Association. Kevin Kardos in hot pursuit of black disc phftO by jon Oeseher Burnett for their sustaining strength throughout the lengthy tournament. I ' \ ''

CONCORDIENS/S, Wednesday, Nuv. 17, 1976 Page 19 ,,~·., • 0 - 0 0 I~·· ,.\ > : 0 ° , 0 ° > • ' 0 0 •' 0 ~ • : 0 • j ,' 10 0 1 0 : 0 , '~•, I' ... ,>:~,.0> \> ~ o : :• 0 ,,> I ~.~ 0 ~ ', > 0 sports GARN~T WINS hy LA :'\CE BOBROW In conditions that were no means suitable for a football game.llnion played a very strong Jdensivt.: game upending tht: llarnilton Continentals by a score ,l! llJ-6. At the start of the game. Hamilton's Steuben held was nl\ ered with several inches of ,now with lAc exceptitm of the 40-ya rd limes and the goal lines 11hich were d'Ug out before game t 1 me . C o 11 s i d e r i A g t he s e l<ltH.IItions. a defensive struggle \Ia'> expected With the outcome m,,.,t likely hinging on one or 2 hreaks v.hich is exactly what happened. The tempo of the game was set early as the strOJilg DutchmaN defemsc twice stopped HamiltoN mside the Uniom 15 in tAe first halt. Hamilton received this field position cou rtcsy of Union turnovers. However, in defense of the offense. the field was a quagmire and only 2 turnovers were committed hy Union during the entire baHgame. Jhe first score of the game came in the second quarter with the aid of a fumble recovery by lorn Hood at the Hamilton 16. After being thrown back to the 22 yard line. Andy Terranova calmly hll tight end hanJ.. Jlo;.ter on 4th aown on a pattern over the middle to gi\\.: lln1on a first down at the 2 yard line. hank made a nne catch running acros;. the mud on the above play. I hese conditiom. de!ini·tely hampered the pas~ing game today. Three plays later. resene back Dave Rwff smashed over from the one to give Union a 6-0 lead at the half. Starting the ;.econd haH, Union made its own hreak when Hamilton \.\a;. forced to punt deep i11 ib own territor~ tHl ih first pos;.es;.Ion of thr.., hall. l>ekmi\e end Hob Stolt/ blocked the Continentals' punt cleanly and freshman Bob S111livan picked up the footballl on the run and dashed into the eAdtone to give Union a 12-0 lead. At this point, Union was content to play ball control. The Union oflense grinded out the clock while the Union defense gave Hamilton yardage in the middle of the field but nothing in Union territory. Hamilton twice drove deep into Union territory but came up empty as the result of an interception by Carmen Sanginero and a fumble. Early in the fourth quarter, Union broke the game open,on its Dutchmen's Andy Terranova controls the Gamel offense most spectacular olfensive play ol this season. It was by none other than Rich Romer who ran lor X4 yards breaking numerous tackles enroute. On the way, he shtmed his versatility by both bouncing off of the tacklers as well as running over people a Ia Jimmy Brown. Kurt Hamblet then added the point after to give Union an insurmountable 19-0 lead. The only yuestion at this point was if Union would put together its second shutout of the season. This question was answered whPn Hamilton put together a sconng drive to make the final score llJ-6 and deprive Union of its second shutout of the season. Looking back on the season, which must be considered a rebuilding year. Union posted a J- S record and showed improvement which should be in evidence for the next few seasons. However, this game is the one which will be freshest in the minds ot all those close to the team when they look back on th1~ season. Keeping that in mind. It was a most impressive exhibition and wiped out all thoughts of Union retrogressing to last years' level after the horrendou~ game last week. Unfortunately, this observer will not be able to witness the football team next year but they should be an a we some outfit. Sporting Eye The editorial which appearea 111 this column last week was included at the prerogative of the Girls' Sports Editors. All editorials that delineate the offkial editorial policy of this newspaper appear on the appropriate pages. Editorials printed on other pages are the opmwns of the specific editors involved. * * * * In reference to the many negative responses received to last weeks editorial Sports and Women at Union, it has become necessary to clear up a few misunderstandings. women competing 111 intercollegiate sports at Union. Frank Hoster (left) and Carmen Saginario(right) outstanding gridders of the week Firstly, the intent of the article was to emphasize that the gravity with which women are competing should be left on the field, not carried off. Sports are for enjoyment, exercise and fun, and had anyone here. male or female, wanted to pursue a sport as a professional careeer then they should not have come to Union. There is absolutely no reason why Union should not have a decent women's sport program, one comparable to the mens. But in order to do this, the time and effort of Professor Kershner, acting Athletic Director. must be utilized. Apparently Professor Kershner does not want to place his priorities there, and this is wrong. The women need a full- time Athletic Director to handle their affairs - a prime example is a mix-up in the Field Hockey schedule in which a game was scheduled to have been played that the team was never told about. The women also need full- time coaches for their sports, a part-time coach just never seems to give their team the effort support, and instruction needed when knowing that what they are doing is only ephemeral. Players of the Week The article was not telling the women of Union to \Sit down and shut-up,\ as some believed 1t to be. Rather, and to re-state it for a th1rd time, competition (on the field. not off) should be the breeding grounds lor enJoyment, exercise, and tun. This week's offensive player of the week goes to senior Frank Hoster. A native of Columbus, Ohio. as well as an ardent ~upporter of Woody Hayes. hank was instrumental in Union's triumph over Hamilton last Saturday. Frank's excellent hlock ing and clutch grabs earned him the Ralph H. Rue Award, an award which typifies the most valuable player in the Union- Hamilton game. \Helicopter\ will he sore!\ missed when the Dutchme~ take to the gridiron next fall. This week\ most valuable player on defense is freshman Red Team Triumph h~ DA \'E FINNEGAN Kip Churchill and freshman I >can Willer;. hoth ..,cored~ poinb fnr the \ icto-rious Red I cam in Ltq Saturday's intra~4uad nhihition hockev game at ·\chilb Rink. \ Both Churchill and Willer~ carne up with 2 goals and 3 a .. ~ists. leading the Red to an H-2 \ Ic:tory over the White he! ore a nowd of about 2.000. Other Red !!oals were contributed by Peter ( ·rawford. Do.l Marshall, Brad Hinterberger and Mike O'Connell while Tom Pahapill and Dave Currie tallied lor the White Team. In goal freshman Dave .Jo~t:phson made 44 ;.;1\e!-. for the Red' and Ste\e BaJ..er turned hack 41 ~hob lor the White. I he game \\as the first of 3 exhibition;. scheduled by the Dutchmen for the 3 consecutive Saturdays prior to the season opener Dec. I at :'\iorthcastcrn. I he game wa~ played tor the benefit of the Union Glee Club to help finance a planned tour of Vene!Uela. I he Glee Club will also receive the proceeds from the final exhibition game while this Saturday's game is to benefit the Schenectady Youth Hockey Association. Carmen Sanginero. A native of Wayne. New Jersey, Carmen played a nearly flawless game on defense. helping to extinguish numerous continental drives. A consistant player throughout this season's campaign, Carmen will be looked upon in years to come to help tighten up the garnet defense. What the article did not say was that women are inferior, women's sports at Union should not be competitive, or that the whole women's sports program here should be abolished. If it was mis-read that way, then a terrible injustice has been done to the Rugmen by DEB KAFFMAN I ast Saturday the t·nion College Rugby Cluo put the season all together hy clamung second place m the Annual Seven's I ournament in Alham. The R uggers played h~ far their best. Rugb~ of the 'ea,on \\Jth Chip Fenn and Chn~ la\lor leading the way. Chip spurrei the offense on as he scored time and time again throughout the gruclmg seven game tournament. Chn~ Taylor anchored the delemc \ith his effective and punishmg tackles. Once again. cool Harvq Friedman came through in the clutch with his surehandcdness at the fullback position. Honor~ and metals must be awarded to John Brown. Bruce \Weasel\ Pullman. Dave DiMarco, and Mark Kevin Kardos in hot pursuit of black disc photo by jon flesc:her Burnett for their sustaining strength throughout the lengthy tournament.

Page 20 CONCORDIENS/S, Wednesday, Nov. 17, 1976 sports : .,:• ' ,, r ' '\ •! ' ' ' ' ' ' • ~· ' : ' .\ • • • ', ' ' ' : • • • ~ • • • ' Cagers Face Height Problem The same old height prohlem (lack of height, that is) faces Union Col:lege basketball coach Bill Sc.:imlon a~ hi~ squad cornpktt\d it, fir\t ''l:t\k ,,r prt·- -.~.:~t\un pradrct\ lrrJ~t\ average ol 12.5. second b>y only fractions to another graduated player. Steve KeUy of Port Washington. appears almost certain that he will pull up to varsity status ome or more from among Steve Abba, of Schenectady . .lim Comhs of Pt·rJfidd. Jim I hackeray of St'I, .llt'l.\tad~ and '\Lttt \\'irm nl Saratoga Spring-.. Frosh B. Ball coach in his former days \Suit'. \\c ha\c a prohklll \\ rtli height; no one gre\\ that rnu~o:t1 over the ~ummer.\ ~aid Scanlon a~ he ~ur\t~)ed thr \ar~it:-, hopefub. \\ hrch indud·eJ ~1.'\Cil 11f last year\ team. on!:-, l\\o standing 6~. Scanlon'\ llJ7)-7(-. IL'am compiled a 17-f> record. \\Jth the 6th ]o.,., at the ham!-. ol I annon 111 the I'CAC t:p;,~ate I ournament first round at llarllllton. I hat gave the youthlul limon coach a personal record of 57 victorie\ again\! 14 lo~st:s alter ~ vea rs at ll nmn. Hut gont: from iast :-,ear·., team are .1 of the ton 4 scorer~. IIH:luc.lmg all H .1\C .John Demo. I he ~-Y guard lrorn nearh) Mclro~e. had a game ~cormg Intramural News 6-Man Flag Football Champions: On Wednesday 1\ovember lOth Sigma Phi beat Psi-U on a snow covered field 14- 13 to capture the 6-Man 1-lag Football Championship. CONGRAIU!.AJIO;\JS SIC.iM/\ PHI 1976 D.L D-Chi Chi Psi 8-Man L Flag Football Playoff Results 0-{'hi Chi Psi 8-Man Flag Football Champions: Chr Psi defeated D- Chi 12-0 in a hard fought battle to win the X Man 1-lag f-ootball Championship. CONGRAIUl.AilO:\\iS CHI PSI I Chi Psi D-Phi J 1976 6-Man Flag Football Playoff Results Turkey Shoot Contest: On Saturday. 1\ovember 20th at 1:00 p.m. in the Alumni (iym the second annual rurkev Shoot Contest will he held. The I urkey Shoot is a co-ed activity with teams consisting of a male and a female. Each couple will shoot a given number of arrows at the target from a designated distance. The team with the largest point total at the end of the contest will be declared the winners. Winners of the contest receive a turkey for Thanksgiving. Entries are due in the Intramural-Recreation Office located in the Alumni Gym on or before Friday November 19. Psi-l\ , Psi-l\ Fast & Loose 1 Sigma Phi Beta Bombers I Si~ma Phi Sigma Phi Volleyball Champions: On Monday, November 15th the Smithies defeated the Lavender's 15-5. 7-15. 15-1. 1-15. 15-1 to win the Women's Volleyball Championship. CONGRATULATIONS SMITH II::~ 1976 Mini Soccer Playoff Results Mad Hatties Sigma Chi Mad Hatties D-Phi FIJI D-Phi 0-Phi Soccer Champions: Defending champions D-Phi beat an excellent Mad Hatties team to capture their second straight soccer championship. Both teams battled to a 0-0 score at the end of regulation play. The score remained 0-0 after two 5-minute overtime periods and two 10- minute sudden death periods. The game had to be decided by penalty kicks. D-Phi scored on two of their five shots while the Mad Hatties scored one out of five. CONGRATULATIONS TO BOTH D-PHI AND THE MAD HATTIES FOR AN OUTSTANDING PERFOR- MANCE -~ \ ~> '%- \\\\'' Steve Baker sweepinK away an enemy's errant shut photo by jon flescher In aJJ.itior•. Iknin', floor gcnL'Ial,lllp fhl· kd lf.l .i''t't' <tnd. ~.h.-~pitr h\ height. \l<t.., .\rJ in rebuund~) ''ill he -~ore!~ rni,!'oed. Along \\ith Denio and high ... cor t.:r Kellv, Set nlon ha~ loq through graJu<rtion .lu~l I i~hcr of S yosett. \\ ho aH:raged slightly mort· than I 0 point- per game. I hat trio accounted lor an a\crage ol :15 poinh a game. or nearly hall ol l. nron·., ;i\erage output pi 75. lkac.lrng the rl'turnees i~ 1\:te Meola. 6-J. a Schenectady semor. who had the Jrd highest scoring average last season with I <U. Other lettt:rmen includt: t\ I Walker. o-4. ol L l.ongmeado\\. Ma~s .. anc.l (iary Borgest:. 6-0. of :\ew Hvde Park. who teamed \\lth l>~nto 111 the hadcourt Both an.: ~enior~ tlm ;,car. Scanlon also has Mike Smith. 6-3. of Northampton. Mass., a junior; Roger ::-)ymonette. 6-4. of Goulds. Fla.; Mark Rekucki, 6-2. of Scotia, who played on both the freshman and varsity squads last winter. and Clete McLaughlin, 6- 2. another senior from Little Falls. Symonette and Rekucki were the only freshmen who saw regular action with the varsity in '75-'76. Scanlon is reluctant to point to any members of the freshman team last year as probably varsity material at this point, however, it A In addition. se\ era! freshmen could don \arsity uniforms. particularly '>111\.\t: Scanlol'l i!'o to) ing \\ ith the idea ol employing a 14-rnan varsity sLJUad this year. compared \\ i·t h t ht: 11-man SlJ twd he used throt:r~h most of last -;cason. l\nion· -;chedule krck~ oft on the road Dec. I at Kings PoiNt. I he first home game in the 23- game schedule is Dec. 3 agair:tsi Middlehury. I he Dutchmen will participate agam m the 4-team Caplital Di~trict I ournament this year a~aiust SieHa . .1\lhany State and Rensselaer Poly. \ew opponent~ th1s year arc St. Lawrowe. \\htch v.rll pia) in the Union 1-ield House Jan. 29 and Assumption. a 1-eb. 25 road opponent. The schedule: Dec. I at Kings Point. 3 Middlebury, 14 at Utica. 2g-29 C<1pital District Tournament. Jan. 5 Cent. Conn.. 8 at Hartwick, 12 Amherst, 15 at Williams. 19 Wesleyan, 21 Hobart. 22 Hamilton. 26 Rochester. 29 St. Lawrence. Feb. 2 RPI. 5 at I rinity, 9 at Hamilton. 12 at CW Post, 19 Cortland. 23 at Binghamton. 25. at Assumption. 26 at Tufts, Mar. I Albany State. Rich Romer this week·sfreshman E. C.A. C. back of the week Hockey Standings LEADING SCORERS AS OF ll/ ll Name Team Pannell Fiji Kahn \lAK KirbyP.•.·. P.l'. Mayars \lAK RothmanA.D.Phi A.D. Phi Lasko Ol Jutkiewicz MAK Hoffman ( hiPsi Bodenstab OPhi Steiner P.l. lhursday, :\o\emher IX. at 3:15 p.m .. .lack Washington will he mcctmg \\l!h all wom~:n haskcthall candrdate~ in the Block lJ Room in Alumni Gym. Mr. Wa~hington coached HtrsJty basketball at the University ol Wisconsin, < ;oah .. hsist<. r otal I I J I..J 5 8 IJ 9 I 10 7 J 10 6 4 10 5 5 10 6 J 9 6 2 8 6 I 7 4 J 7 coached v,ornen':-. \arsrty at Still water Centra I School. and at Schenectady Community College he coac.:hcd a women's semr-pro team rn the Schenectady Recreation League. f: 0- ··-- = :J T~ by DAV The anxiously Task Fore futm:e o program h submitted Bonner. The SO- into 5 sect with quest athletics, I intramural athletic ?.dministra athletics d~ the 15 1 On Mon~ Student special n discuss I President' Athletics. affects ev1 and the F getting a body - l1 you feel a meeting l't 115 of building a President E final report. of meetin! complete, is fitting our the College objectives. widespread report ar community, hoped such among all Task Force total under INS.r Alumni Repo1 Tbe 'skll Arts & 1 Editorta: Brownl~ view; Calenda Ask the Clas&ifie s·urts '··\-' ·., ... , ..

Page 20 CONCORDIENSIS, Wednesday, Nov. 17, 1976 5pOrt6 Cagers Face Height Problem The same old. height problem average of 12.5, second by only (lack of height, that is) faces fractions to another graduated Union College basketball coach player, Steve KeHy of Port. Bill Sclmlon as his squad Washington. completed its first week of pre~ In add·ition, Denio's floor season practice Friday. generalship (he led in assists and, \Sure we have a prohlcm with <Jcspite his height, was :lt:d in height; no one grew that much rebotmds) will be.sorely missed. over the summer,\ said Scanlon Along with Denio and high as he surveyed the varsity scorer Kelly; Scanlon has lo!)t hopefuls, whi4.:h included sc\en of through gfaduation Joel Fisher of last year's team, only two Syosett, who averaged slightly standing 6-4. more than I 0 points per game. Scanlon's 1975-76 team That trio accounted for an compiled a 17-6 reco.rd, with the average of 35 points a game; or 6th loss at the hands of Fannon in nearly half of Union's average the ECAC Upstate Tournament output pf 75. first round at Hamilton. Heading the returnees is Pete That gave the youthful Union Meola, 6-3, a Schenectady senior, coach a personal record of 57 who had the Jrd highest scoring victories against 14 losses after 3 average last season with 10.3. years at Union. But gone from Other lettermen include A'l last year'.s team are 3 of the top 4 Walker, 6-4, of E Longmeadow,. sc0rers, including all ECAC' John Mass., and Gary Borgese, 6~0, of Denio. .. . New Hyde :Paik, who teamed The .5-9 guard from nearby with Denio~ in the hackcourt. Melro:;c, had a game storing Both are seniors this year. Frosh B. Ball coach in his former days Scanlon also has Mike Smith, 6-3~ of Northampton, Mass,,. a junior; Rqger ~ymonette, 6-4, of Goulds, Fla.; Mark Rekupki, 6-2, of Scotia, who played on-both the freshman and varsity squads last winter, and Clete McLaughlin, 6- 2, another senior from Little Intramural News 6- M a n F Ia g F o o t b a II Champions: On Wednesday November lOth Sigma Phi beat Psi-U on a snow covered field 14- 13 to capture the 6-Man Flag Football Championship. CONGRATULATIONS SIGMA PHI 8-Man Flag Football Champions: Chi Psi defeated 0- Chi 12-0 in a hard fought battle to win the 8 Man Flag Football Championship. CONGRATULATIONS CHI PSI Turkey Shoot Contest: On Saturday, November 20th at I :00 p.m. in the Alumni Gym the second annual Turkey Shoot Contest will be held. The Turkey Shoot is a co-ed activity with teams consisting of a male and a female. Each couple will shoot a given number of arrows at the target from a designated distance. The team with the largest point total at the end of the contest will be declared the winners. Win!J,ers of the contest receive a turkey for Thanksgiving. Entries are due in the Intramural-Recreation Office located in the Alumni Gym on or before Friday November 19. 1976 Mini Soccer Mad Hatties 1976 8-Man Flag Football Playoff Results D.U. ! D-Chi I Chi Psi Chi Psi D-Phi I J Chi Psi 1976 6-Man Flag Foot6all Playoff Results Psi-U I Fast & Loose I Beta Bombers Psi-U · I Si2ma Phi Si2ma Phi l----~....,....0 Volleyball Champions: On Monday, November 15th the Smithies defeated the Lavender~s 15-5, 7-15, 15~1, 1-15, 15-1 to win the Women's Volleyball Championship. CONGRATULATIONS SM.ITHIES Playoff Results Sigma Phi Sigma Chi l . Mad Hatties I DwPhi FIJI L D-Phi Falls. · . Symonette and Rekucki were the only freshmen who saw regular action with the varsity in '75-'76. Scanlon is reluctant to point to any members of the freshman team last year as probably varsity material at this point, however, it ;1ppears:.. almost certain that he wiU pull up to varsity status one or nioFe from among Steve Abba, of Schenectady, Jim Combs of Penfietd, .JjJ:n Thackeray of Ss;t.:nec).aey ancl Matt Win.n of Saratoga Springs. In addition, several freshmen could · don varsity uniforms, particularly since Scanlon is toying with the idea of employing a 14-man varsity .squad this year, comNred with the IJ .. man squad he used through most of last season. . Union's schedule kicks .off on the road Dec. 1 at Kings Point. The first home game in th\! 23- game schedule is Dec. 3 agains.i Middlebury. The Dutchmen will .participate again in the 4-team Capital District Tournament this year .against Siena, Albany State and Rensselaer Poly. New opponents this year are St. Lawrence, which will pla.y in t·he Union Field House Jan. 29· and Assumption, a Feb. 25 .. road opponent. The schedule: Dec. I at Kings Point, 3 Middlebury, 14 at Utica, 28'\29 Capital District Tournament. Jan. 5 Cent. Conn., 8 at Hartwick, 12 Amherst, 15 at Williams, 19 Wesleyan, 21 Hobart, 22 Hamilton, 26 Rochester, 29 St. Lawrence. Feb. 2 RPl, 5 at Tr~nity, 9 at Hamilton, 12 at CW Post, I 9 Cortland, 23 at Binghamton, 25, at Assumption, 26 a.t Tufts·, Mar. I Albany State. ·.--- D-Phi J Soccer Champions: Defending champions D-Phi beat an excellent Mad Hatties team to capture their second straight soccer championship. Both teams battled to a 0-0 score at the end of regulation play. The score remained 0-0 after two 5-minute · overtime periods and two 10- minute sudden death periods. The game had to be. decided by penalty kicks. D-Phi scored on two of their five shots while the Mad Hatties scored one out of five. CONGRATULATIONS TO BOTH D·PHl AND THE MAD HATTIES FOR AN OUTSTANDING PERFOR- MANCE Rich Romer this week's freshman E. C. A. C. back. of the 'week '• L __ Steve Baker sweeping away an enemy's errant shot photo by jon flescher Hockey Standings LEADING SCORERS AS OF 11/11 Name Team Pannell Fiji Kahn \IAK Kirby P. •.·. P.l'. Mayars \IAK Rothman A.U. Phi A.D. Phi Lasko lJl Jutkiewicz MAK Hoffman Chi Psi Bodenstab U.Phi Steiner P.l. I hursday. :\ovcmhcr IX. at J: 15 p.m.. Jack Washington will he meeting wuh all women basketball candtdatc~ in the Block U Room 1n Alumni Gym. Mr. Washington coached Varsity basketball at the University of Wisconsin. Goals Assists Total II ·' 14 ~ M u I} • 10 7 -~ 10 6 4 10 5 5 10 6 -~ I} 6 2 8 6 I 7 4 3 7 coached women\. \arsfiy at Siillwater Central School .. and at Schenectady Community College he coached a women's semt-pro team tn the S c he n e c t a dy R e c rea t i o n League. Ta by DAVl The I( anxiou$ly ; Task Forc1 future of program h~ submitted Bonner~ The 80-I into 5 secti· with questi athletics, p int~tnutals athletic J ad ttilrii~rlit' athletics de] the 15 Tl OnMond1 Student 1 special m. diSCQS$ tl Pr~sident\! Athletics. · affects eve and theFt getting a 1 .body -WI you feel al . meeting Wi us or t buildi!lg ill Pres~dent B> final report, of meeting: complete, is fitting our ~ the College' obje.ctives.' widespread report an;: community, hoped such· among all • Task Force total unders A:lllai~l:~ ~

Inside: Coed· Suites Women's Spo·rts Roving Reporter .. JU Vol. 2, No. 2 November 17, 1976 Raucus Over the Caucus by ruth rappaport The Women's Caucus is an organization which has existed at Union for several years. Discussions with students and faculty proved. however, that the goals and activities of the Caucus are unclear. In short, many people at Union have no idea what it's there for and what it does. On the other hand, the Caucus says that there is a lack of communication between them and the campus, and as a r-esult, they don't know what the people want. Questionnaires regarding the · effectiveness of tQe' Caucus were filled out by students and faculty, both male and femaJe. In addition, the two chlfirpersons of the Caucus, Lisa Rogovin and Gem Mitchell were 1nterviewed. The majority of people questioned felt that there is a need for the establishment of a women's caucus. Positive female response was sli-ghtly higher. When asked what the purposes were underlying the establishment of a Women's<~a!lCUS, answe'rs varied. Responses shared by both sexes were as follows: I. to discuss problems unique to women 2~ to discuss opportunities for women 3. to help Union in its transition to be}ng coed and to insure equality on the campus 4. to give women a voice, or as one male student put it: \To voice beefs a'bout inequalities.\ Women were alone in expressing the following needs: l. to insure programs offered at Union that would be geared to women's interests. 2. to create a, sense of together- ness 3. to make women happier as individuals 4. to enlighten people Male responses specifically touched upon the following reasons: I. to create sports equality 2. protection of women's rights 3. to d'iscuss better heaJth care -for women · 4. \I &uess .. women; here are feeling liKe they're .getting beat on again or something:~ 5. I don't know why. Several professors used the wdrd \consciousness raising\ in expressing the needs for the ·existence of the Caucus. Gem and Lisa, chairpersons of the Women's.Caucus, felt fhat the organization exists to pr;ovide both a close rapport between all females on this campus (faculty and staff included) and to discuss problems unique to women. Throu.gh discussions and workshops they hope to provide women with consciousness raising and help to make women a\Yare of themselves as individuals at Union and in society in gen~ral. not effective When asked if the Caucus 1s effective, there were more negative responses than positive, especially amongst women. Some men felt they could not answer, or else they just didn't know. Reasons for positive responses were varied. Females who felt that the Caucus was effective Continued on Page 4 Has Camp. £4. purpose gotten-lost? Intellectual ''Guts'' by bope j. fabian '\ a dynamic educational Let My People Vote experience ... this experience should be a departure from t·he normal classroom session ... and perhaps the student will decide tha1 these courses have been the most rewarding part of his total college life.\ As stated in a report on the curriculum in March 1965, these were the original goals of the Comprehensive Education system. How close or, as the case may be, how distant we are to attaining these goals seems well worth examining after a ten year trial period. * o f ·unaccommodating circumstances. For a Humanities major who dares to venture into a science, the frustrating experience can be a powerful reinforcement never to do so again; 11nd as well for a science major who is rnade wholly cognizant of his inabilities to function outside the realm of a laboratory. Somewhere in the development of Comprehensive Education, we . have lost track of the necessary guidelines which could make this system work instead of scaring off curious students or filling some poor professor's classroom with in.teres~ed · observers who are only there because they had to take \something.\ The intended format read, \An option course should keep its audience in mind; that is, it should devote particular attention to the needs of the students ... the amount and rigor should be sufficient to provide and understanding ... but need not be of the same intensity as a pre- professional course.\ Student Participation in Tenure Decisions by richard. a. siegel President Bonner asked the four campus trustees to meet and · discuss the dissatisfaction with the tenure process. Students have proposed that a student. be appointed to each ad hoc committee and also be given full voting .tights in. the evaluation of the Committee on Faculty. This and other aspects of the situation are discussed below. governance I The governance structure of this college has divided the campus into three representative groups - administrators. faculty and students -· and each group has representatives in the decision making bodies of the college. Each group is given the right as well· as the obligation to participate in campus government. Pas~ action has shown that each invests a tremendous amount of time and energy into the colleg~ for various rewards. It would be impossible to determine which group has a greater investment in the cdllege, for this campus without one of these groups would be ,drastically different. rights and interests Consequently, each group has the right to pursue policies that are perceived to be in its own best interest. Denying one group the ability to pursue that right would, in effect, be acting against the spirit of the governance system. Furthermore. such action would also prevent that group from fulfilling its obligation to the ':·:: .·, .·· college. I hat obligation is to strengthen the college and to enable people to be proud of the instititution. no tenure rights The tenure system, as it stands now. prevents students I rom ·tul- tillini- its rights and oMigations to the college. Students are denied all but a very limited voice in the evaluation of faculty members. Both administrators and faculty members are given representative voting power in this process. Students are not given this representation. Students are only granted the ability to provide input for this process, but are prevented from taking part in the decision making process itself. Both faculty and administrators are able to discuss and vote in the tenure process while students are only able to provide limited input. ~ . justification? A lew ol the arguments supportmg th1~ unla1r occurrence have been raised. I he maJor one' will be di,cmscd here. I) Students are here only four years and therelore \lack the long VIeW required to make the Jlldgcmcnt ol \-\-.ho ~~ 4Uahl icd to stay as a proles;,or at Cnion. The crux ol this allegation i~ that once students leave llnion. they cease to have an intcresl or commitment to the college. I h1s hypothesi~ can be demonstrated to be lalsc 11 one examine~ the accomplishments of the Alumni Committee, as well as the amount ot lund ra llllng wha.:h is under- taken by the alumni. Clearly. a large number of Union graduates have demonstrated a deep. continuing commitment to the continued excellence of the college. long after they have Continued on Page 2 .or!gins The initial implantation of our present program in exchange for the traditional distribution requirements came about as a r-esult of faculty action. Comprehensive Education was in fact, totally their creation. Fundamental to this innovation was the student and teacher sharing an expenence in discovery. \The plan is constructed in a tutorial program: a few students meeting m continuing arid mtimate contact with a scholar. Part ol the excitement would come from the adventure .. .'' Do the faculty still feel this way, or perhaps do they feel as trapped · in teaching Comprehensive Education counc;, <1~ 'tudcnts feel in taking th\:m'! Doc~ there exist an attitude of resent mcnt on the part of r rofe~sors toward the double standard Jn\oll.ed m teaching a c ros~h;,ted course·! Ha' the dream ol broadening education turned into a tcalit~ of cl'lnvcnicnec'l When ~tudcnts -.it down at pre· registration time to select their courses. do we pick lomp. l:d. cour~e~ purpo~l\C ot expo;.ure·: Or arc Comp. Ed. courses selected on the merit of hcing an ca'>\ :lrd course to take', Are Comp. h.l. cour;.c;. heing chosen on the ha;.ls ol the relative case \1\lth \-\-hich they lit into one·~ schedule'.' comp. ed. dilemma It seems to me that the dilemma ol Comprehensive Education is as much a result of an insincere effort on the part of the student b0dy to strive lor a liberal education. as it is a res.ult In 1970, the Comprehensive Education system 'was re- evaluated for the purpose of clarifying what its objectives- were. fhe objectives. structure and curriculum ol Comprehensive Education were reviewed in depth. As of November 1976, the Educational Policies Committee has convened 4 times this fall. After reviewing the EPC's minutes. its main course of action seems to he postponement of discus~ion for the next meeting To their credit. they have managed to torm a ~uhcommittee compo>.cd ol one adminl~trator. one ... tudcnt. and 2 faculty memhcrs. Thi~ committee hnwe\'cr. has no formal charge heyond laying some groundwork for propo!'>a Is. As of yet. 2 weeks heton: the ilr~t tnmcstcr ends. nothing ha~ Ol't·n done toward making any changes in the Comprchensi\e Fducatinn system. Pcrhap., 1t 1s t1me to gi\c more diligent comideratHlll to our Comprelh:nsi\e Fducation ;.y;.tcm to determine where it is going. if indeed. there is any direction at all remaining.. * Thanks to Mr. Schmidt o{ the registrar, the covperati\'e sta_f.l of Cnion College Library and !Jean Purrs for 1naking accessible .wme · factual information.

r:::=-/-/., ~t Coed Suites \' ~~ Women's Sports i Roving Reporter ~\' ~( ~v;'~~~~~;'~~~~~~~~~~~~~~ Raucns Over the Caucus by ruth rappaport The Women's Cal!lcus is an organitation which has existed at Union for several years. Diseussiolils with students and faculty proved, however. that the goals and activities of the Caucus are unclear. In short. many people at Union have no idea what it\s there for and what it docs. On the other hand, the Caucus savs that there is a lack of eommuni~ation between them and the campus. and as a result, they don't know what the people want. varied. Responses shared by both sexes were as follows: I. to discuss problems unilj'ue to women 2. to discuss opportunities for women 3. to help UlilioR in its transition to being coed and to insure equality on the campus 4. to give women a voice, or as one male student put it: \To voice beefs about inequalities.\ Women were alone in expressing the following needs: I. to insure programs offered at Union that would be geared to women's interests. again or something.·~ 5. I don't know why. Several professors used the word \consciousness raising\ in expressing the needs for thle existence of the Caucus. Gem and Lisa, chairpersons of the Women's Caucus, felt that the organitation exists to p~ovide both a close rapport between all females on this campus (faculty and staff included) and to discuss problems uni4ue to women. Through discussions and Questionnaires regarding the effectiveness of the Caucus were filled out by students and faculty. both male and female. In addition, the two chairpersons of the Caucus. Lisa Rogovin and Gem Mitchell were interviewed. 2. to create a sense of together- ness workshops they hope to provide women with consciousness raising and help to make women aware of themselves as individuals at Union and in society in general. Has Comp. Ed. purpose gotten -lost? not effective 3. to make women happier as individuals 4. to enlighten people Male responses specifically When asked if the Caucus 1s effective, there were more negative responses than positive. especially amongst women. Some men felt they could not answer, or else they just didn't know. Reasons for positive responses were varied. Females who felt that the Caucus was effective Intellectual ''Guts'' The majority of people 4uestioned felt that there is a need for the establishment of a women's caucus. Positive female response was slightly higher. When asked what the purposes were underlying the establishment of a Women's Caucus. answers touched upon the following reasons: I. to create sports equality 2. protection of women's rights 3. to discuss better health care for women 4. \I guess women here are feeling like they're getting beat on by hope j. fabian {:ontinued on Page 4 Let My People Vote a dynamic educational experience ... this experience should be a departure from the normal classroom session ... and perhaps the student will decide that these courses have been the most rewarding part of his total college life.\ As stated in a report on the curriculum in March 1965. these were the original goals of the Comprehensive Education system. How close or, as the case may be. how distant we are to attaining these goals seems well worth examining after a ten year trial period. * Student Participation in Tenure Uecisions by richard a. siegel President Bonner asked the four campus trustees to meet and discuss the dissatisfaction with the tenure process. Students have proposed that a student be appointed to each ad hoc committee and also be given full voting rights in the evaluation of the Committee on f-aculty. I hb and other aspects of the situation are discussed below. governance The governance structure of thi:-. college has divided the campus into three representative groups administrators. faculty and students and each group has representatives in the decision making hodies of the college. Each group is given the right as well as the obligation to participate 1n campus government. Past action has shown that each invests a tremendous amount of time and energy into the college for various rewards. It would be impossible to determine which group has a greater investment in the college, for this campus without one of these group:-. \\-ould be ,drastically different. rights and interests Consequently. each group has the right to pursue policies that are perceived to he in its own best interest. Denying one group the ability to pursue that right would, in effect. be acting against the spirit of the governance system. Furthermore. such action would also prevent that group from fulfillin)! its obligation to the college. I hat obligatiOn IS to strengthen the college and to enable people to be proud of the instititution. no tenure rights The tenure system, as it stands now, prevents students I rom ·tul- filling its rights and obligations to the college. Students are demed all but a vcrv limited voice in the evaluation ~f faculty members. Both administrators and faculty members arc given representative voting power in this process. Students arc not given this representation. Students are only granted the ability to provide input fot this process, but are prevented from taking part in the dccis1on making process itself. Both faculty and administrators are able to discuss and vote in the tenure process while students are ~nly able to provide limited input. justification? A few ol the arguments supporting this unfair occurrence have been raised. I he maJor ones will be discussed here. I) Students arc here only four years and therefore \lack the long vtew requtrcd to make the judgement ol v. ho is q ualtf ied to stay as a prolc:-.sur at l!nion. I he crux of th•~ allegation i:-. that once students leave Union. they cea'e to have an intere!.t or commitment to the college. I h1s hypothesis can h~.: demonstrated to he false it one examine:-. the accomplishments of the Alumni Committee, as v.ell as the amount of fund ra1~1ng v.htch is under- taken by the alumni. Clearly, a large num her of \! nion graduates h;ne dcrnomtrated a deep. continuing commitment to the continued cxeellence of the college. long after they h;nc Continued on Page 2 . or~gins The initial implantation of our present program in exchange for the traditional distribution re4uirements came about as a result of faculty action. Comprehemive Education was in fact. totally their creation. Fundamental to this innovation was the student and teacher shanng an expenence m discovery. \Ihe plan 1:-. constructed in a tutorial program: a lew students meeting 111 continuing and mumate contact wllh a scholar. Part of the excitement would come from the adventure ... \ Do the faculty still feel this way, or perhaps do they feel as trapped in teaching Comprehensive Education courses ;~s students feel in takmg thenf! I )oes there exist an attitude of resentment on the part of professors tov.ard the uouhlc standard unol\ed 111 teach1ng a crossltsted course·! lias the dream nf hroadcmng education turned mto a reality ol cnmernencc·_, When students >II dnv.n ill pre· registratHHl time to -..elect their cour>cs. do v.e p1ck (_ omp. !d. cou1 :-.es purptlSI\e tlf cxpD:-.urc·.> Or arc Comp. hl. courses selected un the merit of being an cas\ 3rd course to take\.' Arc ('o;np. Ld. wur-.cs hcmg chosen on the basis td the relatl\e case \\Ith \\hich they Itt into one\ schedule·! comp. ed. dilemma It seems to me that the dilemma ol Comprehemi H Fd ucat1on 1s as much a result ol an msmcere elfort on the part ot tht: student bt,d\ to strl\e for .1 liberal education·. as it IS a rcs_ult of unaccommodating circumstances. For a Humanities major who dares to venture into a science, the frustrating experience can be a powerful reinforcement never to do so again; and as well for a science major who is made wholly cognizant of his inabilities to function outside the realm of a laboratory. Somewhere in the development of Comprehensive Education, we have lost track of the necessary guidelines which could make this system work instead of scaring off curious students or filling some poor professor's classroom with interested observers who are only there because they had to take \something.\ The intended format read, \An option course should keep its audience in mind; that is, it should devote particular attention to the needs of the students ... the amount and rigor should he sufficient to provide and understanding ... but need not be of the same intensity as a pre- prolcssional course.\ In 1970, the Comprehensive Education system 'was re- evaluated tor the purpose of clarilying v.hat Its obJcetiH~s were. I he oh.Jcctne:-. structure and curm:ulum ol Comprehensive Education v.ere reviewed tn depth. As of \ ovcmbcr 1976, the Educational Policies Committee has convened 4 times this fall. After re\lcwmg the E PC's minutes. its main course of action ~cem~ to he postponement of di~cus~ion for the ne\.t meetint!- 1 o their credit. they ha\e managed to form a suhcomm it tee cornpo~ed 1'1 one adrnull-..trattH, one \ludcnt. and ~ facult~ members. I hi-.. committee hov.c\cr. has no lormal charge he~ ond Ia: Jl1t! sol1lt' gnlllnd\\ ork tor proposals. As ol :ct. 2 ~ccb hdPrc the ltr'>t tnmester ends, nPthing ha\ heen dtlfll' to\lard making an: change-.. 111 the c (I tll r r e he 11 s I\ L' I· d lll\ <L t I() n system. Pcrhap' It 1\ tune tn gt\l' mnrt' diligent eomltkratH111 It> our (_ ·omprcht'n-..II c f' ducat inn '!stem to determine \\here It Is go mg. If mdct•d. there 1s any directllHl at all rcmamtng. * Than/...\ ro .\Jr. Schnlllll of tlzt• rcgi.11rar. 1hc cuopaa!il't' .\IV// o/ r·nion College l.ihrarr and /lean l'o11.1 .for ma/.. iiiK acccs.1ihle some jacwal i1~jormmion.

Women's Sports: Union College Campus Voice November 17, 1976 Equal Voice in TenUre Continued from Page l ceased to be students. Alumni p&rticipation in the college clearly demonstrates that students do maintain a long perspective. It is t'herefore incorrect to deny them voting participation for the above reason. not qualified 2) It is also said that students are incapable of or unqualified to \evaluate the perfo·rmance characteristics of teaching, the cognitive aspects of teaching, such as a teacher's knowledge of the material w1th respect to ongoing research in the discipline, and the originality of the teacher's approach to and presentation of the material.\ · matter. It aftects all members ol the · camptls community and therefore all members have a right to fully participate .in the decision. Recovering the Fumble The rebuttal to this argument is that only scholars within a particular discipline are qualified to make these evaluations. Unfortunately, this excludes most faculty and administrators as well as students. In fact, no campus committee attempts to do so: a professor's new work is evaluated and assesst?d by outside referees. It is the referee reports that are examined by the ad hoc committees. It can be reasonably assumed that students (seniors) are equally competent as others on campus to review these reports. There stud€nts can make competent evaluations of this aspect of a professor's performance. Students do not want to be active participants in the tenure decision to save \popular\ professors on campus .. One or two votes ·on a committee would not enable students to do so in any case. What is wanted, however, is the opportunity to fulfill our rights and obligations to the college. Students participate in all oth~r aspects of campus governance EXCEPT the tenufe decision. An equal .voice in the process Is all that is being asked for. The arguments used to just-ify the exclusion of students from the tenure decision- have been rebutted here. Students sbould be allowed to participate fully in this decision a·lso. A selection process can be devised to insure that those students chosen are qualified and have previously demonstrated consistent performance on campus committees.. Students should be allowed to fully pqrticipate in this important decision making process. by Iori wa:lter and ken wilsker Union College sports are in the midst of a transition period. There have been recent allegations regarding Athletic Director Tom Kershner and his attqnpt to find a suitable full- time women's coach. Last Sunday there was a meeting held to inform people about the status of women's athletics. Although many valid grievances were brought up at this meeting, we feel that Dr. Kershner's position was misrepresented. - grievances One of the major grievances verbaliz~d was Dr. Kershner's failure to find a full-time women's coach this year. It was inferred that Dr. Kershner had given up looking for a women's coach. However, in our interview with him, he stated that he never \gave up\ the search at all. Coach Weaver, the previous full-time coach, quit in mid-June of 1976. Unable to make her reconsider her decision, he immediately got in touch with the Personnel :::>ffice, put together a job description, and started the sear\=h for a new coach. Unfortunately, the job advertisement did not get out until later in the summer, and when it did come out. it was not widely publicized. He stated that he received approximately forty applications, and immediately narrowed it down to about twenty potential candidates. Of these twenty, ten or twelve were men. Dr. Kershner felt that he could not justify giving the position to a man. Of the remaining applicants. only two were serious Action- possibilities. rhe posltl<;m was offered to the candidates, and they both refused. Dr. Kershner explained that the small response was due to the fact that the positiOn u.pened up in the summer. and people had already made commitments to other jobs for the coming year. physicals It was also implied from the n'leeting that Kershner neglected the physicals for the women's volleyball team. The coach thought it was the Athletic Director's responsibility to schedule physicals. However, Dr. Kershner told us that in the past it was never the obligation of the Athletic Director, but rather that of the trainer and coach. Since physicals had never been mandatory, he assumed that the coach would get in touch with the trainer to set up a time for examinations, if necessary. Dr. Kershner. being the only new member of the Athletic Department, thought that the full-time people should have known what to do. However, since Dr. Kershner did not want to \pass the buck,\ he has now taken the initiative to set up physicals for the women's volleyball team even though the season is almost over. At the meeting, Or. Kershner was questioned about using only one doctor for everyone who needed a physical. He explained that it was previous policy to use only one doctor. Dr. Kershner was uncertain as to why physicals were no longer given at the campus Health Center. In light of the rnnfminn Dr. Kershner has Not· Words The simmering dissatisfaction with the condition of women's sports exploded last week at a meeting between Acting Sports Director Tom Kershner and concerned students. Articles printed in both the Campus Voice and Concordiensis have presented both sides of the controversy. While we recognize the dissatisfaction with the state .of women's athletics at Union is not new. we are dismayed that Dr. Kershner allowed this present controversy to develop and continue as long as it has. In Concordiensis last week, Dr. Kershner was reported to have stated he \gave up'' the search lor two full-time women's coaches. Thi\ week in the Campus Voice he has stated he never \gave up\ this search. (see article above). This di~~.:repanq lea \e::. us uncertalil as to what Dr. Kershner d1d. We are alarmed that Dr. Kershner was at first reluctant to establish a committee to ),earch tor a I ull-timc women\ Ctlaeh. We cannot help but interpret thi~ to mean that Or. Ker~hncr wa:-. not concerned about the absetli.:C oJ ~omen's cuadh:s at Union. It appears that his concern developed after he was confronted with the dissatisfaction of students. This instance forces us to question Dr.· Kershner's dedication to the improvement of women\ status in sports at Union. We :-.trongly· urge Dr. Kenhner to answer our questions with firm actions. A:-. Sports Director, he is in a position to dissolve any doubt as to his commitment. We want to see this problem resolved as quickly as possible. The Editors decided to make physical examinations mandatorv for any student who wishes to compete in a Union College sport. This will protect both the school and the student athlete. A solution to the problem would be to supplement the Health Center staff with the existing physician. the future Tom Kershner is also concerned with the future of women's sports at Union. He is considering adding more athletic programs if and when enough interest is shown. He is also encouraging active recruitment for .women's teams within NESCAC regulations. Dr. Kershner also suggested to the administration that a third full- time women's coach is needed for the 1977-78 academic year. Continued on Page 4 cannot be trusted 3) Anot~er argument is that students cannot be trusted to handle the confidential material that would be involved in a1enure decision. The performance of the past and present Student Trustees unequivocally rebutts this argument. Often the trustees have handled sensitive material with · appropriate discretion. The Board of Trustees has shown . a high amount of respect for student members. This demonstrates that students can handle material and informa~ion without causing its spread throughout campus. a campus matter Tenure is simply not a faculty There will always be some unpopular decisions. No decision can satisfy all people. Yet when students, faculty, and administrators cooperate fully and equally in the decision making precess, there will be more support for each decision. This can only strengthen an alre~dy good process. Just Take Two Aspirins ••• by ira goodman and. beth ann karlin There are many rumors circulating around the campus about the Health Service; most of which are nasty. It is necessary to dispell these rumors. According to Dean Smith, and Nurses Mrs. Sarnacki and Mrs. Little: \No college infirmary is supposed to be a hospital.\ The health clinic was established on campus for the purpose of first aid, minor illnesses. and some emergencies. If a student's illness does not fall into one of these categories he is referred to an outside physician. The most common rumor is that health care is inadequate; which is said to be due to the health clinic's staff. All doctors are post residency, and all specialize in one of the following areas: internal medicine, pathology, endocrinology, pediatrics, allergy, cardiology, and gynecology. All nurses are registered nurses. There are six doctors, (including two of the doctors from last year), three full time nurses, and three part-time nurses. After II p.m. there is a grant aid student in the infirmary, as well as a doctor and nurse on call at all hours to handle any emergency that arises. Another prevalent rumor concerns the absence of two of last year's doctors. According to Dean Smith. the professionals left because ol better opportunities, not because of personal an i m n' it i e-. • to\\ ;u d L' ni o t1 students. l\hrough our interview with Dt:ah Smith, we came to undrrstand the ~chool's po!i~;:y toward the medical program. He stated, \Union never wants to get into the business of providing the primary health care for 2000 people.\ Most students use physicians with whom they've hecn dealing for a long time. People tend to respect more what they pay for rather than what they're getting for free. lhcrefore, mistrust leads students back to their home physicians. where they often find Differences frequently physicians. differing diagnoses. of opmwn are found amongs~ Dean Smith does not receive many complaints about the health clinic. -, hose complaints he does receive are usually related to the bedside manner of the doctors and, or nurses, and not at all related to their competency. If there was a steady flow of written complaints about a physician, that person would be thoroughly investigated and fired if necessary. As far as Dean Smith knows. there has never been numerous consistant complaints. He further stated that the health service is \damn competent in what it IS supposed to do and what it is funded for. .. As far as funds are concerned, the health service must necessarily take a back seat to education. An alternative has arisen to the present health ca~e system. lt is called thf/ Health Maintenance Organization (HMO), and will provide subscription medical care. If the school chooses to advpt the H M 0 it would become a school policy, and thus all students would be covered· by it. The HMO program will commence on January L 1977, for the Tri-City area. Union is not committed to the organization as of yet, because it is not able to estimate tootinued on Page 3 Novembe1 c Cohabi1 of the commurta race aero~ to be thf were administr; rapid der the same minds of alike, w~ coed livi1 must pet beyond predisposi unyieldin1 complete to allow t:xploratic accomp1is ourselves source o along v possibiliti constructi prime pu \the instr youth.': ·: prominen only the blindly < redeem in! conservat minds an on a sitw substan1 considera scoffs sll Con the com the H Mi the colle \\c I~:< be ben commun the ail-e that sn II 0\\-C\-C prohibiti ~eriously this typ college c We fe, ~hould towards clinic C: objective We sho that the intetrds t

November 17; 1976 Union Colle.ge Campus Voice . ·' Coed Suites·: Union at Union by jonathan kurz, robin Iebow & alan stern Cohabitation at Union; visions of the Harrad Experiment, communal love, and wild orgies race across the mind. These seem to be the wild perceptions that were utilized by the administration to Qring about its rapid demise. These visions are the same ones conjured in the minds of faculty and students alike, whenever the subject of coed living is brought up. We must permit ourselves to see heyond these Inane predispositions and set . aside unyielding societal standards complete with restrictive borders to allow for some objective exploration. If this can be accomplished, we might find ourselves confronted with a great source oi social enlightenment along with some intriguing possibilities. After all, Union is a constructive institution whose prime purpose and obligation is \the instruction and education of youth:: The administration and prominent \outside\ opinion view only the carnal implications and blindly observe no potentially redeeming V<:j]ues. Let the more conservative !actions open ·their minds and attempt to shed light on a situation that deserves some substantial and serious consideration instead of mere ~coifs and puritanical siLLi~nan I Continued from Page 2 the competency nor the cost of the HMO as it v,.ould pertam to the college. V·i~ led that the HMO v,.uuld he beneficial to the . Union community. as it would pnwide the all-encompassing health care that :,tudenb seem to want. llov.cHr, it the cot.t is prohibitive. it is necessary to 'criously consider how imperative this type of service is to the college community. We feel that the student body ,!Jould reas~csl> their attitudes towards the h~.-alth service. The clinic dan only fulfill limited objectives, as it is not a hospital. We should appreCiate the fact that the health clinic does what it intends to do, condemnation. It's time to finally open our eyes and grow e.ven if we are dealing with a scfiool that is old enough· to lead, but too meek to feel confident in setting precedents. d •t coe sm es Specifically, we propose coed suites, in which one bedroom is male and the other fema.le. This arrangement would bear substantial similarity to that of a coed floor of alternately sexed doubles - such as the ones present on the fourth floor of West College. The obvious difference would be the shared living room. However, this situation must be looked at beyond the obvious connotations of convenient sexual adventure. There are numerous potential social benefits within a coeducational living experience. These benefits must be considered before the proposal is condemned in the shadows of what Dean Smith calls \social mores.\ Sexism and stereotyping are two problems which are of .great concern on campus. The implications of Title IX and the exhortations of the Women's Caucus amply illustrate this point. Coed suites offer a unique opportunity to get to the roots ot: these 'p'roblems. The defenses and facades that are often disp.layed in public are a part of the cause of this stereotyping and sexist behayi0r. In a coed living situation. these fronts would come tumbling down simply because they would not be able to withstand the constant exposure. In any living situation, people are forced to make compromises and adjustments. It is from these adjustments that we learn about ourselves and others. In a coed living situation, these adjustments would be of a different nature, Continued on Page 4 To The Editors Nonacademic transcripts in my opmwn are - important. While students are here to pursu,e a given career, Student Activities completes the cycle of a well- rounded education. Students are exposed to different elements such as hiring speakcers, acting, dealing with people m the commumty. etc. Dealing with the outside world is beneficial when they leave om so-called \Gates of Security.\ Sure, activities are fun, but they have helped many students come out of their shells and a few have gone into professions other than those originally intended. lorraine marra - Page 3 .Please, No More Feedback by michael ganz Anmnd this time of the school term many of you will walk into your classes and your professor will ask for feedback of the course that you are taking with him. BEWARE. Let me relate to you my ex-perience as a Freshman when I heard the term feedback for the first tirrie. I couldn't believe ,my ears. There I was sitting in my American History course dreaming about being at Woody Allen's funeral, which was a cremation and I had brought marshmallows, when my teacher asked me, well not me personally, but the class to tell him how the coursl:l should be run. \.Feedback.\ yes. that was the term he used. Oh the goose pimples grew. I grew edgy in my seat waiting for class to end so I could try to think of what ideas I could come up with to improve the course. Class was over finally and I was walking outside dazed. My mind just wasn't there. I thought maybe, just maybe a different way to teach the American Revolution was through a foreign perspective. Perhaps the effect of the revolution on the Pygmy tribes ol Africa would attract some support. That idea couldn't work, according 'to the man in the Bookstore that said all the paperbacks on that topic were out of print and students didn't want to pay high prices for hard covered b\Ooks. I had no time to think; I had to go to my next class, Philosophy ABC. As I walked to Philosophy I thought to myself that this was college; students, teachers and Enteman working together to make the courses better. A lump formed in my throat. I fought the lump by thinking about imagining Kate Smith naked (I also had to fight throwing-up after my mind started to really think about Kate Smith being naked). By the time I had cleared my throat I realized I screamed (I could of sworn to mysell). Oh my God I couldn't think of God because we were questioning his existence. I corrected myself and said, \oh. Professor Berk!,,My mind raced through the numerous ideas that can be used for . teaching philosophy. One idea quick Iy surfaced and that was the discussion of the philosophical problem of doing three papers and s-tudying for Organic Chemistry in one night or \How to swallow nine hits of speed at once.\ The ideas were flowing quick and were brilliant. Another idea was \Existence: What to do if it hits you while you are at Union College.\ The possibilities were endless. Class flew by and as I left the classroom I looked towards· my teacher, farted, and said. \Plato's most famous quote is, •it is not how long it ,is, it is how you use it~\ (I still, till this day, wonder why that teacher breaks into terrific convulsions when he sees me.) I headed to the Science Building for my Biology c0urse. As I approached the building I noticed disciples walking bebind a chemistry teacher (I think it was Professor Hull.) 'I asked a number of people what this was and .they all said it is the Organic Contigent. Oh well. I finally reached my Hio class. Again and again I slammed my head down on the floor until the teacher asked me if there was something mentally wrong with me. I apologized and sought the nearest person so I could obtain a handkerchief to stop the bleeding from my head. Yes, my Biology teacher asked for \feedback.\ This was either a communist plot or an attempt by the faculty to take over the school by obtaining some student support, thereby they would utilize student power (little did they know then that there .is no such thing as student power); Th,is takeover by the faculty would 0ust Bonner and behead Enteman. Professor Baker would be crowned while Dean Lichterman would be Acting Prince Metternich. This idea was somewhat foolish but weird happenings such as this are typical of this school. It was a Berk-send (not a God- send because we decided that God didn't exist in my Philosophy course. Unfortunately, the teacher couldn't an.swer the question why we still have bagels, iox and blintzes). I had an idea for my Biology course. I would refute Darwin's theory that man evolved from the apes and use my roommate, who at this time was swinging to . and fro (whatever that means) from tile ceiling singing the Beach Boys and periodically slugging me in the head, to prove man is returning to the apes. Yes, this would be conclusive evidence if 1 could catch my roommate. Thank Berk I have no more courses. If I heard the term \feeqback\ again I would freak out. As an aside, I continued to pound my head against the floor in the Biology room every day so I would convince my teacher that it was a n0rmal habit and that I enjoyed it immensely. WellJif you expect to get \FEEDBACK\ from the teachers on your ideas~ don't wait too long. I haven't heard anything concerning my ideas. except a call from Admissions and, although this was not ordinary routine, they were going to reevaluate ~y application. Oh well. soup de JOUr. STAFF: brad barry, ira goodman, laurie hinU•n, jonathan kurz, robin lebo\ st>th oJ- .,, jan rm:. l'f. alan stern, Iori walter, kenneth wilsi\CI , hope fabian PHOTO STAFF: hans heilman, jay levl, o;ue lightman, bill maJilick, jon tidings EDITORIAL BOARD: beth ann karlin, micharl kramer, ruth rappaport, l'ichard a. siegel PHOTOGRAPHY EDITOR: alan stern

Page _A Roving Reporter by setb okun and jan rosker QUESTION: Are you in favor of the non-academic transcript? Andy Schwartz - Senior I'm not in favor of it because l think it's ridiculous to force someone to submit to extra- curricular activities. If you're applying to graquate schools for whatever reason. how much yo11 have or haven't done, will come out in your application anyway. - Irene Rosen - Junior If it was mandatory, people that didn't want to do it but felt they had to would just have a bad attitude. If it was voluntary it would be worthless because those people that want to get involved will do so regardless of whether it is voluntary or mandatory. Allan Greenberg - Sophomore As far as I know, graduate schools don't place emphasis on extra-curricular activities, so I don\t see any point in it. unless the school is trying to set a precedent. It's not right at a school as competitive as this one to Ioree people to do something that might hurt their studies. It's really hard to be invo!ved. Ellen Sheehan - Freshman rm not in favor of it because a lot of times students just don't have the time to be in an activity. I think they shouldn't ·base a campus evaluation on how much you participate or get mvolved because sometimes you just can't do it. Joy Sawyer - Senior I don't see that there is any sense to it. You're here to learn, and non-academic activities are for your enjoyment, not for the purpose of seeing how many you can list on a page of paper. Ira Bernstein - Junior I think it is a good idea. It can serve to motivate students to get . involved in campus and community activities. If these stlldents do participate in areas around the college or community, it should be considered in evaluating their college experience. Cindy Vanina - Sophomore At first I was in favor of it because I thought that it would get people more involved. However, some people need more times to get the same grades as others so they wouldn't have the time to spend on other activities. I don't think it's fair that if you don\t have any activities, that fact will be put on your record. Un.ion College <;ampus Voice November 17, 1976 Caucus· R~aueus Continued from Page. I thought so because: I. it brought about better sports \ options for women 2. the Caucus brought good speakers 3. it serves as a committee to go to for discussions, and is a good binding group 4, it just is, I don't know why. Males felt that the Caucus is good because it serves as a pi\essure group that forces the college to hear complaints. Negative response.s were plentiful. Women complained that: I. the Caucus is too small 2. persomdities within the Caucus stand in the way 3. the aims are limited 4. the Caucus must do more to discuss problems less campus~ oriented 5. the people involved are arrogant or defensive . 6. people never hear of it. They do not know what they do or what they represent, and it's never widely publicized. Males felt that the Caucus was ineffective for different reasons: L They're too petty and \make themselves sound like idiots\ 2. they just get speakers, and that could be done by the Speaker's Forum 3, they don't know anything about it Lisa and Gem are aware of ·these comments. Those who complained about personalities involved were upperclasswomen. Lisa and Gem complained that nobody over sophomore standing has attended their meetings. They attribute the problem to what has gone on in the past, when they felt the Women's Caucus was led by more \militant\ women. They believe that this attitude turned a lot of people off, although they were open to the idea that maybe it was needed then, but it's not so now. They also feel that many people take things for granted at Union. They stressed the point that they must hear what the people want. Maybe they don't hear from people because the people don't know what they want. Says one professor, \Union women do not have a clear view of themselves.\ A word that is tossed around quite a bit when discussing the sexes at Union in INEQUALITY. Practically every woman interviewed said it exists here. The majority of men agreed. as did the faculty. sexism at union Where does sexism lie at U nign'! Bvth iit:Xes :.aid tt lies with the faculty. This can be further broken down. Some students say they've been taught by professors who have not yet accepted Union a:. a coed institution. In this situation, they feel that the men in the cia:.~ are given the upper hand. The hiring of faculty was another issue raised. There .are few women professors here. and few women are tenured, One male professor mentioned that traditional barriers are still up and that tnarty times women are hired simply because the school feels obligated to do so. Amongst females, almost· all'· responses merttioned something about fraternities. \Fraternities foster a sexist attitude,\ says one senior. A sophomore wrote, '\There's di.scrimina.tion at parties.'' In response to word that some women wer:e. anxious to c:reate a sorority. one professor remarked that it is \hardly a sigrt of progress.\ . title ·IX Other responses concerning inequality mentioned ~9w women encounter tough times when. trying to form clubs, and the inequality of sports activities at Union. These two points were heavily discussed by the chair- persons of the Caucus. They, along with a newly established Atmosphere Committee for the Title IV \'{consisting of Dean Smith, Nancy Smith, Starr Regan, Therese Ambrusko, Marjorie Kohn, and Debby Kilgus) are working to insure equality of the seliies at Union. Most recently they have worked on trying to. provide more athletic activities and better coaches for women, as well as equal sports coverage. They are als·o investigating sexism in the Women's Glee Club. So far they have increased the budget of the Glee Club 200%. which they feel is good. The women involved feel it is unfair that they have only a part-time director who is a teacher at a local high school, and has far fewer contacts than does the Men's Glee Club director. They also feel that it is not right that the furthest· place that the Women's Glee Club travels to is Albany, 'While the Men's group goes to different states and nations. Another area that the Title IX group is touching upon is the removal of sexist language in all college publicity, as well as insuring equal representation of women in all photographs included in~ these materials. Gem and Usa also mentioned that there is a Grievance Committee to which people experiencing sex discrimination can voice complaints. Some members of this committee are Dean Smith and Beverly Hill .of the personnel office. fhis brought forth another issut.: -worth questioning. Have women actually experienced sex di~criming.tion here'! ! here wa~ an equal number of positive and negative response:,. Some women wrote \not directly.'' Of those who ha\c experienced se.x di~criminatton, it was in the fallowing areas: I. male prof~::s:.vr~ didn\t respec.t them on the basis that they were women. 2. men at parties treated them like sex objects 3. men had certain expectations of them because they are women. As put by one senior woman, \So many of them can't accept the fact that our goals. are just as professional and important as !'heirs. Also, there ·are some underlying expectation~ of enter• ~ainment. free meals, and laundry se.rvice. I think these attitudes need to·be talked about and dealt with first of all.\ . AccOr:ding to Lisa and Gem, the Women's Caucus is set up to do just that. They have p·lans to discuss sex roles. They want to refer w0men to services provided for them in the Capital· District. (They have a small library). They .stressed the importance of informing the college that everyone is invited to their meetings and events. Many students and faculty said that they don't know anything about when and where these events are. Some felt that the Caucus needs to publish some kind olcalendar. As it stands now. the average turnout at .a meeting is lO people. (These meetings are held most Thursdays at 7:00 p.m. in the Women's Caucus room on the second floor of the Student Center.) As stated previously, they say they are receptive to women's needs, but people don't tell them how they feeL · attendance The final question asked. ill' those interviewed was ''Have you ever attended a Women•s Caucus function'? Not · one male said \yes.'' One man said that he was never invited. The majority of females interviewed had attended events. When asked if they would comider going in the future. not one male answered positively. Some wrote that it depends on the event. The b'ulk. of. females felt, the same way .. author's views personally feel that the Women's Caucus has the potential for serving a very important need on. this campus. There are problems unique to women, both universal . and at Union, and I think 1discussions of these · needs a~e highly beneficial to both sexes. Because· most people felt that sexism exists at the school, I believe we must sit down and try to work things out.· As it stands now. J don't think the Caucus is effective. Better publicity is definitely needed, and it is important for the Caucus to stress that anybody can get involved. While \women\ will be discussed, it is an issue not for women only. I also feel that the campus has to speak to the Caucus and tell them how we feel. To most, what goe~ on ln the Women's Caucus is a mystery, but to the Caucus. what people feel is just as pent up and unheard. SPORTS Continued from Page 2 In response to · Sunday's My Suite-Mates ('ontinued trom Page 3 and. in 'omc v.ays. more difficult to make. I hrough these adjustments v.c would be able to learn more about ourselves, and at the same time. learn more about members of the opposite sex. I his is jUstification enough to attempt such an arrangement despite oli~side implications. Director of Housing Slitanne Dowling declined to commit herself in either direction because she felt that she was too new to the scene. meeting. a new search committee Which will look for a full-time coach. has been formed. In its first session. the committee has decided once again to post the job ottenng. I he tunds have alreadv been allocated for a coach, and Dr. Kershner has every intention ol filling the available position. On the ·administration's side. Dean Mark Smi1h !eels that ''the college ca:n not condone. permit. or in:.titutionali7e cohabitation.\ and lurthcr believes that Union is \not an indulgent' or accommodating institution.Wc are an institution \~;tth :-tandard~ and values.\ However. Dean Smith confesses that he is \in favor of constrUctive experimentation.\ Can we cast a\\a) these old puritanical misgi• ings and allow ourselves to reflect; to seriously rev1ew the beneficial prospects of coeducationa·l living'! We are not proposmg that l· nwn College take drastic step~ in initiating new living conditiOns; we arc, however. seeking the opportunity to conduct a controlled situation with a few suites on a trial basis. Instead of condemning an unlamiliar arrangement. let\ take an objccti\c approach. We could then make our decisions based upon facts and not speculations supported hy mere conjecture. Tom Kershner has found that the athletic business is more complicated than he thought. The Athletic Department is in. the midst ol a major policy change. Until a permanent athletic director is found. Kershner sees himself as a \pinch hitter.'' Even though his position is temporary, he would like to see every student, ~acuity .. and staff member get mvolved in physical education programs. Although Tom Kershner is anxio..us to find answers to the problems, it seems to be the confusion and lack of communication within the athletic program that hinders his efforts. Th by Davi• ''Allrlgh disc recc llistpry: f 20th Centl can learn l'ast era ·c before th arrived.\ Olam ( impatient!: hell wante' history, a1 Ages were Why worr Everyon already·be lesson~spo so Olam his own fi \Eyewitne Pushing th visible reh \Fooey on handwri1 considered remnant < civilizatior the video \Wedne 1976, \Dear ~ In 19 least that' h.ere in Sci ('\Sche1 teacher, \ for Sale', cultural c People us~ hours to Why, the was con: American philosoph \ ... Any1 getting a world's cc the radio called' \Di popular s this; song. right in th • starts gro and starts tne·godda ready to somebody animal an or somet sounds so and says tailfeather mama\· 0 do\Vn and ~~:,~~1~ College-· feet tha fr¢shhl¢ hockey. and abs one's hi in only t.he pt rldlculo~ h~T'·ha .f.~

Roving Reporter by seth okun and jan rosker QUESTION: Are you in favor of· the non-academic transcript? Andy Schwartz - Senior I'm not in favor of it because I tltrink it's ridiculous to force someone to submit to extra- curricular actiVIties. If you're applying to grad.uate schools for whatever reason how much you have or haven't done, will come out in your application anyway. Irene Rosen - Junior If it was mandatory, people that didn't want to do it but felt thev had to would just have a bad atti-tude. If it was voluntary it would be worthless because those people that want to get involved will do so regardless of whether it is voluntary or mandatory. Allan Greenberg - Sophomore As far as I know, graduate schools don't place emphasis on extra-curricular activities. so I don't see any point in it, unless the school is trying to set a precedent. It's not right at a school as competitive as this one to force people to do something that might hurt their studies. It's really hard to he involved. Ellen Sheehan - Freshman I'm not m favor of it because a lot of time> '!Udcnt~ just don't have the t1rne to he in an activity. I think they ~houldn't ·base a campus c\aluation on how much you partiCipate or get involved hecau~e .-.ometimes you JU~t can't do 11. Joy Sawyer - Senior I don't see that there is any sense to it. You're here to learn, and non-academic activities are for your enjoyment. not for the purpose of seeing how many you can list on a page of paper. Ira Bernstein - Junior I think it is a good idea. It can serve to motivate students to get involved 1n campus and community activities. If these students do participate in areas around the college or community. it should be considered in evaluating their college experience. Cindy Vanina - Sophomore At first I was in favor of it because I thought that it would get people more invohed. Howe\e r. some people need more times to get the ~arne grade~ as others so they wouldn't han: the time to spend on other activities. I don't think 1 fs lair that if you don't ha\l' any activities. that tact will be put on your record. Union College Campus Voice November 17, 1976 Caueus Banens Continued from Page I thought so because: I. it hrought about better sports options for women 2. the Caucus brought good speakers 3. it serves as a committee to go to lor discl!lssions. and is a good bi.AdiAg group 4. it just is. I dofl't know why. M a.les felt that the Caucus is good because it serves as a pressure group that forces the college to hear complaints. Negative respon:ses were plentiful. Women comptained that: I. the Caucus is too small 2. personalities within the Caucus stand in the way 3. the aims are limited 4. the Caucws must do more to discuss problems less campus- oriented 5. the people involved are arrogant or defensive 6. people never hear of it. I hey do not know what they do or what they represent. and it's never widely publicized. Males felt that the Caucus was ineffective for diflerent reasons: I. They're too petty and \make themselves sound like idiots\ 2. they just get speakers. and that could be done by the Speaker's Forum 3. they don't know anything about it Lisa and Gem are aware of these comments. Those who complained about personalities involved were upperclasswomen. Lisa and Gem complained that nobody over sophomore standing has attended their meetings. They attribute the problem to what has gone on in the past, when they felt the Women's Caucus was led by more \militant\ women. They believe that this attitude turned a lot of people off. although they were open to the idea that maybe it was needed then, but it's not so now. They also feel that many people take things for granted at Union. They stressed the point that they must hear what the people want. Maybe they don't hear from people because the people don't know what they want. Says one professor, \Union women do not have a clear view of themselves.\ A word that is tossed around quite a bit when discussing the sexes at Union in INEQUALITY. Practically every woman interviewed said it exists here. The majority of men agreed. as did the faculty. sexism at union Where does sexism lie at Union'! !:loth sexes said it lies with the faculty. I his can he further broken down. Some students say they've been taught hy professors who have not yet accepted Union as a cned institution. In thi~ situation. they feel that the men in the class are g.!\ en the upper hand. !\he hiring: of faculty v.as another issue raised. I here are few women professnrs here. and lew women are kuured. One male professor mentioned that traditi,onal barriers are stiH up and that many times women are hired simply because the schoo·l feels obligated to do so. Amongst females, almost alii· respoi:tses men:ti,oned something about fraterni,ties. \Fmternities foster a sexist atti:tl!lde,\ says one senior. A sophomore wrote. \There's discriminati-on at parties.\ In response to word that some women were anxious to create a sorority, one professor remarked that it is \hardly a sign of progress.\ . title IX Other responses concermng ifleLjuality mentioned hgw women encounter tough times when trying to form clabs, and the inequality ol sports activities at Union. ·1 hese two poiflts were heavily discussed by the chair- persons ot the Caucus. l hey. along with a newly established Atmosphere Committee for the I itle IV \consisting of Dean Smith. :-.;ancy Smith, Starr Regan, l'herese Ambrusko, Marjorie Kuhn, and Debby Kilgus) are working to insure equality ol the sexes at Union. Most recentlv thev have worked on trying to. provide more athletic activities and hetter coaches for women. as well as equal sports coverage. I hey are also investigating sexism in the Women's Glee Club. So far they have increased the budget of the Glee Club 200%. which they feel is good. The women involved feel it is unfair that they have only a part-time director who is a teacher at a local high school, and has far fewer contacts than does the Men's Glee Club director. They also feel that it is not right that the furthest p!ace that the Women's Glee Club travels to is Albany, while the Men's group goes to different states and nations. Another area that the Title IX group is touching upon is the removal of sexist language in all college publicity, as well as insuring equal representation of women in all photographs included in· these materials. Gem and Lisa also mentioned that there IS a Grievance Committee to which people experiencing sex discrimination can vmce complaints. Some members of this committee are Dean Smith and Beverly Hill of the personnel office. I his brought lorth another Issue worth questionmg. Have women actually experienced sex di~crimination here? I here was an eyual number of positive and negative response~. Some women wrote \not directly.\ Of those who ha\ e experienced sex discrimination, it was in the lolhw,ing areas: I. male pmfcs~ors didn't respect them on the basis that they were women. 2. men at parties treated them like sex objects 3. men had certain expectations of them because they are women. As put by one senior woman, \So many of them caA't accept the fact that our goals are just as professional and important as theirs. Also. there are some underlying expectatio11s of enter- tainmefllt. free meals, and lauHdry service. I think these attitudes J;Jeed to be talked about afld dealt with first of all.\ Accordi•ng to Lisa and Gem. the Women's Caucus is set up to do just that. They have plans to discuss sex roles. They want to refer women to services provided for them in the Capital District. (They have a small library). They stressed the importance of informiflg the coJ:Iege that everyone is iJ;Jvited to their meetiHgs and events. Ma11y students and tacuLty said that they doa't kflow anything about when and where these events are. Some felt that the Caucus needs to publish some kind of calefldar. As it stands now. the average turnout at a meeting: is 10 people. (These meetings are hleld most Thursdays at 7:00 p.m. in the Women's Caucus room on the second tloor ol the Student Center.) As stated previously. they say they are receptive to women's needs, but people don't tell them how they feel. attendance The final yuestion asked of those interviewed was \Have you ever attended a Women•s Caucus function'! ]\; ot one male said \ye~.\ One man said that he was never invited. I he majority of females interviev.ed had attended events. When asked if they would consider going in the future. not one male answered positively. Some wrote that it depends on the event. lhe bulk of females felt the same way. author's views personally feel that the Women's Caucus has the potential for serving a very important need on this campus. There are problems unique to women. both universal and at Union, and I think 'discussions of these needs are highly beneficial to both sexes. Because most people felt that sexism exists at the school, I believe we must sit down and try to work things out. As it stands now, I don't think the Caucus 1s elfective. Better publicity is definitely needed, and it is important lor the Caucus to stress that anybody can get mvolved. While \women\ will be discussed. it is an issue not for women only. I also feel that the campus has to speak to the Caucus and tell them how we feel. I o mo!>t, what goes on in the Women's Caucus is a mystery, but to the Caucus. what people feel is just as pent up and unheard. SPORTS Continued frem Page 2 In respome to Sunday's My Suite-Mates ( ·ontinued I rom Page 3 ami. 111 ~ume v.a) s. mun: dilltcult to make. I hrough these: adJUstmenb v.e v.ould he ahle to k<;rn mon: ahout oursel\e~. and at the same tune. karn more ahout memhers ol the opposite ~cx. I h1s IS.JU~tlflcation enough to attempt ~uch an arrangement despite outside Implications. Director of Housing Stllanne Dowling declineu to commit her~elt lTl either direction hecame she felt that she v.as too new to th~ ~t.:ene. Can v.e east a\-\a) the~~ old puritanical nmgi\ ings and allow oursel\ es to reflect: to seriously IT\ 1ew t hL· henef ieial pro:;pects of co~ducatinnal IJ\ing:? We are not proptlslng that l·nlt•n College take drastiC steps 111 initiating ne\\ living conditions: v.e are. however. seeking the opportumty to conduet a controlled situation with a fe\\ suites on a trial basis. Imtead of condemnmg an unfamiliar arrangement. let\ take an objectiH: approach. We could then make our deeisiom:-. based upon tach and not speculations supported by mere conjecture. meeting. a ncv. search committee which will look for a full-time coach. has been lormed. In its first session. the comm1ttee has dec1ded once again to post the Joh otfenng. I he funds ha\e already heen allocated for a coach. and Dr. Kershner has every intention of filling the a\ailahle position. On the: administration\ side. Dean Mark Snllfh lcds that \the college can not condone. permit. or institutionali1e cohabitation.\ and further hclie\Cs that l:nion is \not an indulgent or accommodating institutJon.W•: are an 1nst1tution \\lth stamlards aAd value!-..\ Hmq:ver. Dean Smith conlesse~ that he 1s \in favor of eun:-.tructi\e ex peri men tat 1011.\ I om Kershner has found that the athletic business is more complicated than he thought. The Athletic Department is tn the midst of a major policy change. Until a permanent athletic director 1s found. Kershner sees himself as a \pinch hitter.\ Even though h1s position is temporary. he would like to ~ee every student, !acuity. and staff member get involved m physical education programs. Although I om Kershner Is anxious to find answers to the problems. it seems to he the confusion afld lack of communication within the athletic program that hinders his efforts. by David \Al:liright disc rec01 History: P1 20th Centu can learn < last era of before tht arrived.\ Olam (i impatiently hdl wanted history, an. Ages were Why worr~ Everyone already beg lesson-spoo so Olam d his own til '\Eyewi.tnes Pushing th~ visible relu• \Fooey on handwrit considered remnant o civilization. the video ~ \Wednes 1976. \Dear IV In 197 least that's here in Sch (\Schen teacher, \\ for Sale', cuHural ce People use hours to Why, the · was cons American philosophy \ ... Anyw getting a I world\ co; the radio t: called ''Dis popular sc this song. < right in th~: • starts grov and starts , the godda1 ready to I somebody animal and or somett sounds sor and says t tailfeathers mama\ (h< do>vn and mean to i paperwor: dilemmas you were for my ht I've stc few time~ and to I{ been up t and said, stilt have know me They tol Fresh mar with my G do my pa To the As a College : feel that fre~hmer !tude:. I ,lfJd ;th\l 'lnc\ hu If! lifl 1\ ![~·; p;; llltlld~\lii lLathh,,,

