Professor Wills speaks candidly and plainly. Union Implements Title IX by MARJORIE S. KOHN To th~ :hard core cynic, the 2. preclude or undermine the coupling. of Union College and rea1ization of Title IX objectives, Title IX may seem to border on 3. serve to exasperate sex the absurd,. Fortunately, the last discrimination grievances or that six years has snown that this has hinder remedial efforts or which not been the case. pr~clude effectiveness of grievance In the fall of 1975, Union procedures, Co II e g e an no u.nc ed its 4. serve to create or contribute commitment to Title IX and to an atmosphert~-. or impre~>sion -assumed an aggressive leading -of sex discrimination . which role in eiimha,ting s·ex. cannot-be corrected through title discdmination · ort campUs._ This ~X com~liance. commitment logically follow~d In effo.rts to further these .goals the basis begun by the decision to and achieve compliance before become a coeducational the July deadline, ten self- institution in 1970 and was evaluation committees were continued by President Bonner, established: financial aid, inter- who, in efforts to \create a collegiate athletics, non-inter- campus totally free of sex collegiate athletics and physical discrimination and sex education, housing, extra- exploitation,\ appointed the curricular activi'des and President's Commission on the organizations, employment, Status ()(Women, which is still in career counseling, academic e}{isten~e. hi recognition of advising, and counseling, other Union's leading efforts; New York services and facilities - i.e., State held a tid~· iX eonference health serv-ice; access to course . at Union last ..spring. In addition, offerings, curricular course 'President Bonner has become a content, and course materials, member of the special advisory practices and circumst~nces committee. to the Resource Center insulting or creating difficulty or on Women in Higher Education. discomfort for members of one Title IX~ developed .. to sex. Drafts of these reports were eliminate discrimination on the made available last spring in the basis of sex in educational Personnel Office for comment programs receiving or . ben~fitiqg and they are currently being kept from federal financial assistance,\ irt the office of the Title IX became law on July 251 1974. Coordinator, Dean Smith. Although certain institutions are Of the ten propased studies, exempt, i.e., the military, Union is only six were available last week. legally bound to comply in almost The intercollegiate ahd non-inter- every area. Hut going ,beyond its collegiate athletic reports are legal duty, Union morally pledged currently being utilized by the to concern itself _with policies, athletic staff as a Title IX has practices, or circ.umstanc;es which: been filed against the department. I. by commission or omission Also missing were the reports on are in direct or clear violation of Housing and Employment. Due Title lX provisions, to the -1lifferences between each study, only two of these reports shall be examined in this article. FINANCIAL AID AND AWARDS According to this self- assessment, Union does not discriminate on the basis of sex in awarding departmental or faculty prizes. Nor is sex a consideration in the following scholarships: Thomas J. Watson, the Marshall, the Wilson. the Danforth, the · Fulbright~Hays, fellowships, and the Wright Chemistry Scholarship. . The acea of Financial aid offers . an interesting and bizarre twist. In the year 1975,.76; 742 males received aid compared to 361 females. Obv.i 0 usly the .llOtttinued on page 8 Volume 106~ No. 2 W,ednesday, October 6, 1976 Garry -Wills : Self-Stvled . . by WILLIE BASIL and CINDY SIJ'EPPARD (The following is. ·the last of a two-part series on the Wasbing- tpn · irving Chair of Modern Literary and Historical Studies and its first occupant, Garry Wills. This int~rview is intended Irving Professor Interviewed to provide an introductory glimpse his style m1ght suggest his use of ;at Or. Wills.) the latter. He fights to expose The pen is indeed mightier than the sword. Dr. Garry Wills arms himself with the former, although reality in American society by quashing all notions of the liberal myth and removing the dead weight of American political thought. Such a task requires, \ after aU, a suitable weapon. Independent Students Unite In Wills' case the weapon is intellectual analysis through first- hand observation - a detective's undertaken several mitlatlves in search for the realities which Albany on behalf of the students constitute our political structure. of the independent sector. The The evidence is seemingly clear, organization is preparing a white but Wills• verdict is sure to paper on \the costs of higher surprise many. The Independent Student Coalition (lSC), a state-wide organization representing the interests of students in the independent sector of higher education, was formed in Albany on August 7th of this year. 1he purposes of this organization are to insure adequate levels · · of State aid for all independent institutions of higher education in New York State and to guarantee the participation of the, students of the independent sector in all policy decisions relating to higher education. Prese.ntly, this organization has over 20 private collegt:s within its membership and hopes to eventually represent all of the 260,000 students in the independent sector. . The origins of this group can be traced to a confe~ence sponsored· .fast ·spring by the Commission .of l.ndepe.ndent Colleges and U~iversities of New York {CICU). This conference was held to make students in private colleges more aware of activities in the legislature concerning. higher education. At that time it became apparent that the independent sector needed a formal group to represent the interests of its students. The State University students are represented by the Student Association of the Staje · UniYersity (SASU), and· City University students have the United Student Senate of the Cit)! University (USS-CUNY). There was no independent student organization until the ISC was formed. The lSC has already education\ for submission to the Dr. Wills' reputation not only blue ribbon commission on higher preceded him to Union, but education, a group soon to be further seemed to conspicuously appointed by Governor -Carey. follow him around during his first The paper will analyze the costs few days. Itcreated a most hectic of higher education in both the pace, but Wills is quick to assure government and independent that he is used to such a pace. We sectors, with emphasis on the sidestepped this onslaught and relative burdens which these costs secured an informative interview impose on students in all sectors with him, apparently capping off and the taxpayers of the state. In a hurried breakfast, as .he arrived addition, Norman Reimer, breathlessly with Jolly Tiger executive Director of the ISC, has coffee in hand. During the testified before the New York interview Wills appeared readily State Board of Regents approachable· and quite candid. Legislative Conference on the Yet ev~n after an hour of interests and needs of students in exchange, it was clear that the 'private colleges -in N.Y. State. surface of this versatile figure had · Union College has ·taken an barely been scratched . active role in the development of \Entomlogist~ not a bug\ the ISC. President Bonner has Wills describes himself as \an pledged financial support for the entomoJogist, not a bug,\ · organization, and one of the spots choosing to remain in the neutral on the executive board will be corner while the country goes occupied by a Union College along its chaotic way. His student. Due to Union's proximity detachment, while in keeping with to Albany, great opportunities journalistic ethics, is more a exist for Union students to take statement about our polit,ical an active part in the lobbying system _ a sfatement activities of the ISC. In addition, expressed in his hard~line non- a statewide conference will be held in Albany on October 23 to voting posture. This interview is an attempt to share and eKplore further explain the goals and Wills' insights into the American strategies of the organization. political/social structure. This conference will be open to Wills · is self-styled anyone interested. For more . a . . ·nr· . t\ b t th ISC th conservative, but he 1s qUick to 1 .orma ton a ou · e · or e 1 ·r b dd' h .. 11 d Conference in Albany, please ~ c anY Y a mg t at so-ca e contact Andy Koblenz, Room 255 Continued on page 3 Fox or call 370-6728. B.' Potts has been appointed As~ociate Dean of Faculty. He is currently As~ociate Professor of History, a position he will retain simultaneously with the new . appointment. As Djrector ofthe American Studies Program, Potts has been a member of the Union College faculty since 1967. Next week CONCORDIENSJS. will feature an interview with Dr. Potts, in which he discusses his immediate plans and goals .

f • Page 2 Closs ·of 'S·o Profiled Althor.rgh there qas always been controversy over the significance of statistics such as SAT scores, it is interestin.g to look at the overall figures of an incoming freshman class at Union College. !he chart below shows that applications and acceptances have grown steadily over the past five yeaFs, while the enrollment size has declined. The ten year average of applications accepted is 56%, showing that the current class varies little from previous dasses in this respect. FRESHMAN CLASS OF: 1980 197!> 1975 No. Applied 2732 2452 2167 No. Accepted 1496 1355 1062 % of Applied Accepted 54.8 55.3 49 No. Enrolled 520 541 456 1975 1979 1980 VERBAL No.(%) No .. (%) ·No.(%) 750 .. 800 IQ (2.2) 3 (.6) I (.2) 700-749 44 (9.6) i 4 (..2. 7) 14 (2.7) 650-699 99 (21.7) 52 (10) 33 (6.3) 600•649 ' 104 (22.8) 97 ('19.7) 84 (16.2) ~ 550-599 Inl (22.1) 124 (23.\>) 131 (25.2) 500-549 50 (I I) 115 (22.2) ISO (28.8) 450-499 l \ 55 ( 10.6) 400-449 48 (10.5) 114 (22) 13 (2.5) 200-399 39 (7.5) Avg. 603 559 562 1975 1979 1980 MATH No.(%) No.(%) No.(%) 750-800 37 (8.1) 31 (6) 28 (5.4) 700•749 SJ (18.2) 60 (ll.6) 75 ( 14,4) 650-699 124 (27.2) 129 (24.9) 103 (19.8) 600-649 105 (23) 114(22} 98(18.8) 550-599 53 (11.6) 98(18.9) 104 (20) 50.0-549 33 (7.2) 50 (9 ... 6) 53 ( 10:2) 450-499 I I 23(4A) 400-449 21 (4.6) 37 (7. i) 8 ( 1.5) 200•399 28 (504) Avg. 643 623 625 As the SAT score charts reveal, in the 600-800 point range on both verbal and math tests, the percentage of the class scoring in each range has decreased since 1975 in all but two cases. In the 200- 599 point range, the percentage of the class staring in each range has increased in all but one case. This seems to justify some complaints that the entering students have lower verbal abilities and thus, are possibly less capable of doing college work. Something that might add to the recruitment aspect is ;a geographical breakdown of each freshman class. In comparing the freshman classes of 1975, 1979, and 1980, it was.found that of tho$e students who enrolled at Union, 80%, 84:6%, and 87.8%, respectively, carne from seven northeastern. states. There are only 16 states and foreign countries comprising the class of I 980, as opposed to 24 states a9d 16 foreign countries represented in the class of 1975. The percentage of enrollees from f'ie.w\' Y,ork .. SJa~e has climbeg from 57.2% to 71.2% over the last five ·year~; with an-average of 15% of the classes coming from Nassau and Suffolk counties and 13% coming from Schenectady, Albany and Rensselaer counties. These figures indicate that Union is relying more and more on the Northeast for its applicants. At the same time, it seems that the admissions staff has been doing little to increase its applicant pool. In fact the pool has decreased by eight states in five year~. More and more entering students are being ranked in the first and second quintiles .of their graduating classes. For the classes of 1980, 1979, and 1975, those in the top two quintiles are 96.8%, 94% and 89%. Those in the fifth quintile are 0.2%, 0.5% and I%. It is interesting to note that while more freshmen are ranked in the top 40% of their class, their SAT scores have decreased .. This also indicates that the Union Admissions staff places more emphasis on class rank than it does on SAT scores. The percentage of alumni children in the class of 1980 is up to 8. 7%. as compared to last year's 7%, although it is down from 10.3% for the class of 1975. The acceptance rate for alumni children is up 8% compared to the ten year (1971-1980) average of 70%. The class of 1980 has 77% of its students from public schools. This compares with 79% for the class of 1979 and 74% for the class of 1975. Talk Line Calls fve saved some sunlight shduld you ever need a place away from the darkness -Rod McKuen A person who can understand your situation best is someone who has been through it. This idea has been developed into the form of a \talk line.\ The Fox House Talk Line, grown out of the concern which students have towards their fellow students will serve an existing need at Union. Students will be able to talk out problems, receive support and just know that somebody cares. ' The Talk Line is not designed in the conventional sense of a hot line (a hot line infers that the caller has a trtajorcrisis). Fox House Talk Line will be for all of us who feel lonely, upset about academics, anxious over a lack of set diTection, or just someone who wants to hear a friendly voice. We will perform a referral service for those who need information about community activities, clinics-and other such organizations. Fox House, in cooperation with Craig Carlson, conceived the Talk Line as a campus-wide venture run by students. Anyone · interested in helping to man the phones will undergo a training experience. Confi<!entiality will be stressed as well as. various helping techniques. The phone lines will be open 11:00 p.m. to 3:00 a.m. Anyone wishing to help, please contact Craig. Carlson (6061) or Adie Carlyle 215 Fox (6428) by Oct. 15th. Thank you. I ·Wednesday, Oct:·6, 1976 Freshmen taking advantage of a lull irz the activities at Girling Center Pay Phones Vandalized Three pay telephones which had been repeatedly subjected to vandalism were removed from the West College dormitory last Week. According to Willqrd Reynolds, assistant to the compttoller; more may be removed ·if the vandalism continues. \This isn't anything we're springing on anybody,\ said Reynolds, pointing out that students in the dorms had been warned Iast'year of the possibility that .phones would be removed. According to Reynolds, there have been II instances in which 1>h9nes .in do.rmitori11s p.aye, been vandalized and put out of operation since Aug!l~t 30. In each case, New York Telephone. has had to send repairmen to the campus. There are ab9ut . 60 pay telephones on the ,campus, p{ which a nui:ti6er are' unprofitable for New York Telephone. According to Thomas Paolucci, security supervisor for the company, vandalism adds to the cost of operating coin phones, increasing the company's incentive for removing them. In . trying to cope with the problem last year and to forestall removal of phones, the College installed a stell conduit around the cable leading to the phones to .protect the· cables from vandals. But the conduit has· been only partially effective, Reynolds said. According to Paolucci, the manner in which many of the phones have . been vandalized suggests that students are attempting to make free calls by defeating. the mechanism which collects money for the phone company. That practice, he said, is a Class A misdemeanor and carries a penalty of $1000 fine or one year in jail, or both. · Furthermore, Paolucci pojnted out, those convicted are disqualified from a number of · professional occupations, including that of lawyer, engineer, and doctor. \They're gambling with their futures.\ Vandalism of phones has other consequences as well, Paolucci said. When repairmen are occupied with fixing ~tandalized phones, the Company's ability to provide service to other customers is decreased. Therefore, he said, \my recommendation has been to give the repair of phones on the campus put out of order by vandalism the lowest possible priority.\ The fact that certain phones on the campus are losing money has contributed to a decision by the phone company to review all coin-telephone service at the College .. The phones removed froru West College were at the north end of the first floor, the south end of the second lleor, and the south' end of the third floor. New Profs-- Ross and Jthnson by Janet Chapma,n This year, Umon's faculty has acquired several new members .. Professor Robert Ross of the economics department began his first term last fall. While teaching, he simultaneously completcit' his dissertation for· his Ph. D. at Syrac}lse University. Needless to . S<!Y,h~ did.IJ't have much fr.ee time to get involved in college activities, so he is still a new face. on campus.· Professor Ross was an economics major at Duke University and got his ·Ph.D. at .Syra<:>US~:, Hi~ . sp~ial · inter~sts ·within the economics field are urban and regional economics as well as public finance. He is currently doing research on employment ,location and job movements. Although he came. as a new professor, Professor Ross ha,d experience teaching introductory courses as a graduate student at Syracuse. When questioned why he chose to be a professor rather than concentrate on research work Professo~ Ross explained that he enjoyed the life, college atmosphere, the students and the \suppoh and fre.edom for research:'' He believes research work goes hand in han<! with being a good professor. \To be a better teacher one should remain active .m doing one's own research.\ Union obviously had some attractive characteristics for Professor ,Ross as he is originally from a tobacco growipg home town in ·Southern Maryland. He picked Union out of his choice of colleges because of its small college atmosphere, the colleagues and his impression of the students whom he found to be \interested and interesting.\ Regarding his expectations for the· coming year, Professor Ross is encouraged that Union applicants' S. A. T. scores have stopped dedining and expects the quality of Union stud~nts to remain high. Now that he has more free time, he is anxious to participate in Union's activities, beginning with this past weekend's football game. This school year Professor Ross will be instructing: Macroeconomics at the introductory· artd intermediate level, Introduction to Public Finance and a new course called, \Regional Economics\ which concerns the determinants of migration and location of businesses. Professor Paul Johnson is a new member of the political science del?artment. He also just completed his Ph,D. wotk this past spring. Professor Johnson got his B.A. at Emoty University · as a history major. Diplomatic history fascinated him to such an exfent that he received further degrees in j1'olitica1 S'cience. Four years of service . in tht,: Navy iittervened ' before ' he cohtinued with his education, getting his M.A. and Ph.D. at the Univer~ity of Virginia. His 'special interests within the political science field are American and West Europeat:t Foreign Policy, national' securi~y 'pol'fcy and· theories 'of international politics. Professor Johnson is currently engaged in research concerning the \West German Security 'Policy and the ·European· Defense 'Cooperation.\ Although Professor Johnson is new as a- professor to Union, he has had experience as an adjunct professor in graduate school. He never really copsidere.,9, ~lilY .other career as he finds . th!l:t the ••academip ,,t;;nvironment is. more intellect'l.lall¥: stimulating than what one would find in the State Department.\ When questioned of his future goals, he explained that he, like most political .scientists, wants to get involved in the political process, but has no immediate plans. Union apparently has quite a reputation as Schenectady is a long way from Professor Johnson's home town in North Carolina. The faculty created quite a favorable impression upon him. The professors' caliber and collegial respect for each other's work Were influential factors. He also found our schoers political science department to offer a wider raiige of courses than schools of comparable size. This past spring Professor Johnson hfid the chance to give one lecture to a sampling of Union students who also made a favorable impression. When asked whether his expectations have been altered,. Professor .Johnson answered that he has not been around long enol}gh to change his initial favorable Impressions. He still\ is le>c~:rning about all· 'Of the activities the college offers hut plans 19 be active in the I nteJ·national Relations' Club. This school year Professor .Johnson will be teaching the following courses: lntel'national Politics, International Organization, Theories of Political Development . and a course· on \Conflict and International Politics. ••

CON:CQRD.IENSIS, Wednesday, Oct..6, 1976 , Page3 New Sm.'oke Alarms ·co -Awry By ERIC LEVINE boxes in West was broken, and when the electriciaq,came to wire the smoke 1 system in South he found the witing tags that indicate.d which wires go where, were ripped off. Whether t·hese acts were perfOfJI)ep by students or outsiders .canriof he definitely determined. · ·.· · Simon to Speak 011 Theory of Discovery S~me students, particularly thqse h01~sed in West, have been wondering about the value of the new smoke devices that have been installed thr.eughout the campus. The new devices, can be found in Potter, Raymond, Sputh and West. The purpose of these gadgets; of course, -is to locate a fire and warn toe tenants of its .presence. language instructions. That Dr. Herbert A. Simon,. lecture wilt be at 3:30 p.m. in Richard King MeH6n Professor Room 115 of the Social Science of Computer Science and Bui.lding. government and business organizations, has been chairman of the board of directors f the Social Science Research ( ,unci!, a11d. the Behavioral '.ciences Division of the Nati·onal Research Council. He has been a member of the Committee on Science and Public Policy of the National Acqdemy of Sciences and President's Science Advisory Committee. In discussing the vandalism, Mr. Wood stated that if· the persons who perpetrated these acts of vandalism were not found, (ines would be assessed to .the individual dorms. A fine of about 500 dollars would be assessed to West and ·1000 dollars to South. Psychology at Carnegie-Mellon Over the past 20 years, Dr. University, will consider the Simon has been studying question, \Can There Be a decision-making and problem- Theory of Scientific Discovery?\ solvjng processes, using in a lecture Thursday, Oct. 14 in computers to simulate human Room 016 of the Socia'! Science thinking. He is the author of Building. about 400 papers and 20 books The lecture, sponsored by and monographs, including Sigma Xi, will begin at 8 p.m. AdministratiVe Behavior, Models Unfortunately, the smoke from the Saga kitchen, which is located en the first-floor of West College,, has been prema~urely setting off the alarms. When this happens all students must evacuate the bul·lding. 'Sometimes students'· are in their birthday suits 9r In the shower an.d it is understandably irritating. One student must even hobble up and down the stairs on his crutches .. To remedy this, Cliff Wood, head of Security, said that a hood would be installed in the kitchen to divert the smoke away The systems wete installed to increase the safety in each dorm. The previous heat sensitive devices, which met minimum safety requirements, were felt to be insufficient by the college. fhus the smoke devices became a number o.ne pnonty . Neither Security nor Housing knows the cost of these 'new safety devices. Maintenance does not have it on record hut coul<) find out by contacting the contractor. The information was not obtained in time for this article. At an Administrative and of Man, Organizations, The Engineering Systems Colloquium Shape of Automation, The earlier in the day, Dr. Simon will' Sciences of the Artificial, and alse discuss his current reseal'ch Human Problem Solving. on the simulation of human Dr. Simon, serving ·as Educated at the University of Chicago, Dr. Simori holds a Ph.D. in political science. He holds honorary degrees from Yale University, Case Institute 'of under.standing of natural consultant to a number a Technology, The University of of Chicago, and McGill University. .\ -A from the mechamsm. When asked about yesterday's fiasco .of the alarm going off on the second floor, he held up his cigar and said that some students might have a tendency to fool around with the devices. Mr. Wood seems to have good reason to make thcis statement. Apparently one of the control The best way to juc:Jge the worth of the alarms is for the students not to tamper with the mechanisms. If they save one life, regardless of cost, they are invaluable. Wills ' eontinued from page I conservativ~s don't 'think I am.\ current presidential election, the Political labels, he says, \are popular vote .. will be close. always . .difficult in America, as However, the electoral college they were designed for the vote will not, and thus Carter will European feudal tradition of the wi!l the election. Of course Wills 'haves' (conservatives) and the remains non .. partisan and finds '~Jave-nots' (liberals).\ The differences between the settlement of America, we find, candidates to be insubstantial,. if Freshmen gamblers play it close to the vest at annual Fiji Casino . . represents an upheaval. not inconsequential. Wills is bankrupt. Nixon, According to Wills, the liberals The factors which lead to exploiting this condition, was a . of. Europe were responsiqle for differ,ences in' candidates 'mimifestation of 'this bankruptcy · the settlement and exp1:1nsion of according to Wills, appear for the as he strategically appealed to America. Wills not~ the most part to be external. That is, these libehll myths. in gaining paradoxical nature of these labels Carter. would push for greater sup·port. In effect he was the and observes that the .. real racial equality in the attempt to ·embodiment of a hollow effigy: radical\ is tpe capJtalist, in vie.w erase the Southern racist image. the individualist, the self-made of his risk-taking and the Wills contends that office-holders man. To Wills, the reality of the . speculative nature. of his sytem. often ·a'ttetnpr~o cbmpensate for Horatio .Alg~r phe.ve.t:ne.non. is Similarly; Wills points to the their ascribed characteristics. l;le-- that we live in an interdependentv contradiction in our perception of · points out that Kennedy assumed society ~one needs \connections\ labor unions which we commonly a strong position against federal to make it. Individualism is dead consider \liberaL\ He feels that aid to Cathol.ic. schools s~ ~s. to or at best vestigial.ly survi. ves. unions are ess~ntially conservative ·b~l~ rtce h.1s. · CatJt ohctsm. Campus Market Myth because they stand for stability, . Stmtlarly, LB.J. ?~can:e a str'ong One of Dr. Wills' attacks hits fraternity, and status. p~oponel1t, of ClVII nghts ~nd home, for it is directl~d at the Self-Perpetuating Myths N.tX.on c~qld travel to. Chma liberal myth that colleges harbor The Irving pmfessor finds that safely, while ,such a tnp made an \intellectual marketplace of there are many myths by Hl!bert H~phrey WO?~d.have ideas.\ To Wills this notion is ~:~n surrounding · our system of left htm vul~erable. to ::ItlCism. impossibility. There are too many government.' These, he feels, The N1x9n Tradition assumptions. made before the create·' false· •· notionS' which The' idea of se~government, marketplace even begins to barter influence public behhvior and claims . Wills, is anothe.r its ideas (or an institution such as perpetuate the system.. ln longstanding myth. lnd.eed, the Union to be free in the liberal particular, Wills: finds that there. concept of free elect-ions has been ·sense. are many myths surrounding badly shaken by Watergate. It is a Dr. Wills brihgs to Union elections, social chang~, and the bitter irony that the United States College a most formidable act of voting~ He says that was, in part at least, fighting to reputation as a writer, nationally election·s actually have a restore free elections in Vietnam syndicated columnist and teacher. depressing effect on change. As he while at home our own \free To his credit are numerous books, ·sees it, voting is a \conservative elections\ produced · Richard scholarly publications, pieces for apparatus for keeping inc1,1mbents Nixon. According to Wills, it is the National Review, Playboy in.\ He concludes, \We don't do clear, as with Nixon, that our and the New York Review of what we think we're doing when elections do not produce the \best Books among other periodicals, we Vote; it goes against the grain man.\ Rather, the man is more a as well as experience as a of reality.\ manifestation of the prevailing contributing editor of Esquire. It However, he says elections are social consciousness and always a is in anticipation of a fascinating good barometers of public man of compromise. Because he term-long· stay that we welcome opinion in that \each candidate is not the best man it therefore Dr. Wills as the first occupant of runs around asking people what follows that h.e does not make the the Washington Irving Chair of they want to hear so he can tell best decisions, looking at them in Modern Literary and Historical them.\ retrospect. Studies. In addition, Wills claims that In his writings, Dr. Wills' acute Dr~ Wills is able to provide an the \real issues\ are. never brought literary style highlights his insider's perspective of U.S. out in an election. By \real piercing analysis of the American pol.itics; among his most recent issues,\ he cites our war entangle- political scene. This style is exposures were the Democratic men ts. These m iIi tar y perhaps best exemplified by his and Republican conventions involvements, he says, occurred surgical probes into political which he covered for the New ,largely independent of electoral personalities and the whole. of York Review of Books. In participation, but were, rather, political thought. ln particular additien, Wills anticipates one presidential decisions. Campaigns this is found in his critically and more \swing\ with the Carter fall short of addressing such popularly acclaimed Nixon campaign before election issues in a meaningful way, he Agonistes; a tour de force which coverage for · the Canadian says, and thus voting has a strives to penetrate the many Broadcasting Company i 11 misleading effect. myths shrouding the realities of November. Wills observes that there is our political syst~m. These myths, The feeling here is that the often a minimal correlation as Wills points out, are rarely above views of Garry Wills are between campaign issues and the qlJestioned perhaps because like tips of an iceberg - there actual incumbency. He feels that Americans are afraid of what they remains much to learn about. The prediction is virtually impossible, might .find out. Tuesday night lectures Dr. Wills in that external factors Many thoughts in Nixon is presenting will surely prove to subsequent to an election have Agonistes Wills echoes today. be unique to this campus, worth a often altered pre.election rhetoric. Because it rests on insubstantial scrutinizing visit. Besides, anyone Wilson, for example, pledged to supports: free enterprise, freedom who likes the Opera and 18th peace, led us into WW 1. of ideas, (classical liberal ct¢ntuty prose must be at least Wills believes that m the thoQght), political thought for slightly interesting. 1 INN Erie Blvd.-Nott St. Schenectady 370-71·51 tilt ~~· . ' ~ ~ cc- Wh~tever ·. . . ?1 ~ stgn ~ ~ youare, ~ ~~ we've ~ ~ got ~ ~~~ good news ~ ~ foryou! · ~ Special low college rates for campus delivery of ibt Ne\tJ Uork 0imts CU_) -..._..,. Keeps you in touch with everything that influences life on our planet · Contact RAYMOND WALKER UNION COLLEGE B'OX 245 . SCHENECTADY,N.Y. 12308 ~---------~----------------------------------------------~-------- 1 or mail this coupon : Papers will be delivered to your room or offkc. Subscription rates an: 40'.'~ : below the regular newsstand price. . ' 0 Fall 0 Winter 0 Spring 0 l·ull Terrn Term Term Year 1 0 Weekdays (Mon-Fri} $7.05 $6.75 $6.60 $20.40: D Weekdays (Mon-SaO 8.25 7.95 7.80 24.00 : OMondaysthruSundays 17.45 17.15 17.00 51.60l 0 Sundaysonly 9.20 9.20 9.20 27.60 : :Please enclose payment and make checks payable to. Raymond Walker. :Delivery will start oh Monday, September 27th. I . I

f CONCORDIENSIS,: Wednesday; Oct. 6, 1976_ . -· · ; ~ ! culture Keeping Current with the· Arts This year's second Lunchtime Music faculty and majors, gather Musicale will take place this · together and perform some of Friday, October 8. It will be held their favorite pieces of music. The in Arts 202, starting at 12:30 p.m. music censists primarily of short and lasting for about afi hour. classical and baroque pieces, but What, you are undoubtedly rumor has it that the third asking is the Lunchtime Lunchtime Musicale will feature a Musicale? Every ether Friday a dance band. This week's group of musicians, primarily performers are, a~ong others, Professor Hugh Allen Wilson and Arthur Bragg (class of 1976, a music major). The Lunchtime , Musicales began about the middle of last spring term. AH members of the Union College community are invited to attend. You are permitted, .even encouraged, to bring your lunch. Attending a Lunchtime Musicale is like going to· a picnic with music, informal and vei'Y pleasant. Fox la lent D-ebut by KEVIN HARKENRIDER Friday night, Oct. I, before some 200 spectators, the first annual Fox House Talent Show was held, mixing such name acts as Carlos Joe \Assistant Director of Admissions\ Zolner with such rookies to the spotlight as Adie Carlyle, Scott Packer, Verna Lowe, Ken Needleman, Jill Stein, and Pat Condello whose moving performance of an original, composition hushed the crowd. Other headlining performers included Kathy Lett and Mary Mattimore demonstrating the latest Cover Girl makeup line, Andrea Fink with a perfect 10 in Coffeehouse Opens Bv LISA BARON . Keeping in step with the innovative changes occurring throughout the Union College commumty, the Coffeehouse promises to provide an exciting year of live entertainment. Beginning the term, last night, was a fine performance by a man known as \America's best unknown folk singer.\ Michael Cooney proved himself as such and can proudly be known as a one man folk festival. Also performing last night was Union's own Brian Dearing. According to Ruth Rappaport, who is in charge of this year's Coffeehouse, we will see some new and exciting changes. Along with the evening's entertainment, a variety of coffees and pastries will be served to the audience by waitresses and waiters. LUKE'S SUPERMARKET - 830 EASTERN AVE. . SAM-IOPM ·70AYS Full Bne or ·dell, cold beer and IOda, produce and poeery. · WE'RE KICKING THE CAN * * * * open floor gymnastic exercises, and the R.A.'s of Fox Dorm. .Head Ham R.A. was Charles Are you interested in wntmg Atwood Flanagan reading some movie reviews, book reviews, of his own poetry and later record reviews, or just general wearing it on his $3.75 City cultural nonsense? ls there some Mission special-tailored suit. aspect of life at Union CoHege The show's lasting effect on the that you feel should be Dorm can be seen as choruses of commented upon (such as, how \Boris Boris save me save tnuch is the Carnegie Game me ... \' can still be heard 'in the Room used, and is it worth showers performing next to mute • funding?) And you don't know but animated Carlos Santana who to contact? Say no more! impersonators. The Culture Editors are Joseph It was a general feeling that all Millett (370-6519) and Marshall performers, many of whom 'had Wisoff (.370~3130), and they are never performed before more ju!)t dying for you to be a than a handful of people, showed reporter. Interested? Of cotlrse a great deal of composure and You are. If you can't get them by good nature in addition to talent. phone, leave a note with Mrs. All Fox residents owe thanks to a Marra, or slip a little something group of R.A.'s who spent the under the Concordy door (3rd. time to organize and carry out floor of Carnegie). Small such a successful and original denominations, please. venture. ........, The shows planned for the remainder of October are as follows: Oct. IS Paula Lockheart, who will be playing with a blues Jazz band. Along with Paula, will be Judy Kotke. Oct. 22 - George Gritzbach, who plays guitar blues and is a student of the Reverend Gary Davis. Oct. 29 ~ Scott Alarik, who plays contemporary and • traditional folk music. Anyone who is interested in performing at the Coffeehouse, is urged to get in touch with Ruth Rappaport. Also, anyone who would like to help out with either publicity, setting up, or waitressing should likewise contact Ruth. Ace Cards & Gifts 175 JAY STREET SCHENECTADY -37l·Z008 . PAWPRINTS- GORDON FRASER IMAGES & MEMO BOARDS l j j 4 .MADISON'S TYPING SDVICE. •~eports •: Manusc!ipt~ .• T.heses •: Resumes Prompt $ervlc~ Re~iiiible .Rtites 03 Llbirty St~ 372-!N• ~ . ·- -· .. ~- ~ _, ioli~ UQVOR - AND WIN£ Try • • t Jdce ' ~ Ltpsfein's ' .eus-·sc.t I ~ ...... t -- --- - _~_ ... 4..,.. ~ -- John Sebastian, to appear at Union Oct. 9 Glee Club Announees Schedule by LOUIS LEATSO, Jr. Glee Club will ~lso perform a.solo held in the newly renovated concert on Saturday, January 29. A very~Fischer Hall. More Then, in mid~February~ the two information on this concert will The Union College Men's Glee clubs wilf Oiice ·again join voices be made available at a later date. Club begins another year of in a performance, the content of On April 16, Wellesley concerts on Friday night, October which has yet to· be decided.. College~s Glee Club arrives at 22nd. The club will perform On the weekend of March 4-6, Union to join the men in Haydn's Randall Thompson's Testament Union will be performing the· Nelson Mass. Finally, on May Q, of Freedom with the Schenectady Berlioz Requjem with the the Men's . Glee Club will be Symphony Orchestra. This Amherst College, Smith College, joined by Wheaton College in a concert is only the beginning of a and Mt, Holyoke College Glee Parents' Weekend presentation of very impressive schedule. On C I u b s at A m hers t an d the ,Play of Daniel. Friday, November 20, the Northampton, Mass. However, .of Unless otherwise mentioned, all Simmons Co~lege Women's Glee 'more importance to Union singers of the performances will be held Club will visit Union to perform is that this concert is only a in Memorial Chapel. Admission Dvorak's Te Deum. Union .will warm~up for What clearly will be to most o~ the concerts is free to also sing a solo number, a Union's most impressive event. Union students, The Glee Club selection from Rimsky- On Sunday, April 3, these same extends an invitation to any male Korsakofrs Sadko. clubs will join forces . in ·New • student who wishes to join them . In early December, the Men's York~s Philharmonic Rail in a If you are interested, please and Women's Glee Clubs will charity concert hosted by Senator contact either Professor Hugh heighten the spirit of the holiday Edward Kennedy and former Allen Wilson (Arts 202, 370~6202) season by leading a sing-in of U.S. Ambassador Elliot or Glee Club President Don Handel's Messiah. The Men's · Richardson. This concert will be Dennis (Davidson 314, 346~9422). Culinary Tastes: SARATOGA TRADERS RESTAURANT For a delightf~,tl evening at a restaurant with a . warm atmosphere, l would highly recommend the Saratoga Tra.ders. This te!!taurant, located in Saratoga Spring$, provides a refreshing diversion to the cold, impersonal atmosphere of so many restaurant establishments. The wooden tables and chairs, soft music, fresh flowers, and black board menu (citing the breakfast dishes) all contribute to an amiable atmosphere. The Union Pharmacy 600 Union St.· Men& Women Stude~t Needs 374-~0S by NANCY FELDMAN 16 Caroline St. ser~~ce neither rushed nor kept us with raisins compensated for the wa1tmg. . . vegetable. The wine list, although Although no meat or pou~try 1s · not extensive, has a few imported served, the menu offers dtverse . white wines in addition to some entrees such as Coquilles St. domestic reds and whites. The Jacques (scallops in a cre~my menu offered cheesecake and wine sauce), cheese quiche, and chocolate mousse for dessert. mushrooms stuffed with oysters. All in all, the evening was W~at makes the meal so satisfying, and the bill was delightful are the extras - the reasonable. For two the bill salad, carrot bread,. and totalled $15.80, which included a vegetables. The salad consrsted of $6.00 bottle of wine. an amp~e portion of iceberg Not only does the restaurant Ie.ttuce wtth tomatoes and carrot serve dinner nightly, but it is open shces. The yogurt and cheese for lunch from 11:30 to 2:30 and dressing, an interesting Sunday brunch 9:30 to 2:30; In combination, was in need of a bit addition, for you. night owls, more seasoning. breakfast is served from I :00 a.m. Following t-he salad, the 'entrees to 6:00 a.m. on Thurs., Fri., Sat., were served. The shrimp and and Sun. On such occasions, the tomatoes was--appealing. This was menu offers fresh fruit crepes with accompanied by brown rice. cream, and vegetable and cheese Another entree, stuffed omelettes. mushrooms, was equally as good. I recommend this restaurant The only drawback to this highly. lt is good enough to delicious meal was a side dish ol' , warrant a return (perhaps for / tasteless slices of summer squash. Sunday brunch), so keep ail eye However, the freshly baked on the reviews for an update on (though not warm) carrot bread the Saratoga Traders.

~·· .•. co:Nco'RDIENSI~!\.W_e_dl!esday -Get. 6; 197()', Pag.e5 Wynreth Directs \Gynt'' On Monda,y, October J lth, rehea.rsals begip for an experimental prod·uction . of }ienrik Ibsen's Peer Gynt, one of the Scandinavian. master's earliest plays, and by fat the most di(ficult to stage. it bears little relation to the domestic dramas The Wild Duck, Hedda Gabler or A Doll's ~ouse. G·ylit is structured as a fantasy, having scenes in every corner of the world: Norway, Morocco, the Sahara Desert, and so on. The play is the story of Peer, a twenty year old man who gives up his hum.drum life with his mot.her on the farm and begins to live an existence of abandonment, full ·of wine, women and song (very lascivious life by Alan Wynroth. this term. The other artist is Janis Mr. Wynroth has directed several Szatansky, who will not only ex.perimentaf productions all over design and build costumes for the world. In Williamstown, , Peer Gynt, but will also build Mass., as apprentice director for ·costumes for the freshman Play, the Williamstown Theatre The Twin Menaecbmi. Festival, he directed. Eugene Janis has worked on several O'Neill's Great God Brown in a major Broadway, off-Broadway, gymnasium, and Harold Pinter's and regional theatre pmductions. $ilence in a room no bigger than She was the costume designer for the mail roorn. He has toured in Long Wharfs controversial Afor.e the t.aMama production of Night Comes, and she was a Medea to Tel Aviv, Lisbon, and co~tume builder for the world Athens. In addition to being famous A Chorus Line. She has resident trainer at LaMama, he is worked in Poland with Jerzy currently (in fact, simultaneously Grotowski as well. with Peer Gynt ) directing a new The theatres at Union College American play at Westbeth Mews are alive and. buzzing with in Greenwich Village. activity, and working on either simiJar to the collegiate. experience). · Directing what Will decidedly be a very free-form production, a group of eighteen Union students will be led / through Peer's Alan Wynroth is the second production, Menaechmi or Peer guest director to come to Union Gynt, will be as much a learning in as many years. His salary is experience as a good time. The paid by both the Theatre Artist's Nott Memorial Theatre is open Program (a subsidiary of every wee'kday from 9:30 to 5:30, Mo:untebanks) and the · Arts and everyone is welcome to drop Department. He is not the only by. It's a great way to meet new guest artist in residence at Union friends! · Student Body President Jim Trump and Provost Enteman discussing 'governance' at Tuesday's Intellectual Cabaret. . ' ' W.ell That Ends Well • and Fot\ the fol,lrth consecutive contains .t~e basic;.HloLe~pl.o~ted year, the Union College by Rodgers and Hammerstein for Mountebanks and the Orientation ~e Rays From Sytacuse. Plautus · Committee will co·sponsor the may also strike a familiar note for annual Freshman Play. This another adaptation of his scripts, year's ~election, The Twin the popular A Funny Thing Menaechmi by Plautus. is a Happened on the Way to the delightful farce· which graced the Forum. Roman stag~ before the birth of In choosing . Menaechmi for the 2013-year-old man. the Fre.shman Play, Mountebanks The Twin M.enaechmi is the is introducing: some interesting . original \mistaken identity\ play, innovations in production. Beset a source for sever a .J by previous Freshman Plays, S ha kespea rean CO!!!,ed ies, which were' too technically including Twelfth Night and All's orientated, lhe design will AFTERTHOUGHT Here my pen and I do toil, Whilst I burn the midnight oil. Iuwiralions caught on paper, Illuminate the frantic caper. While Bud and Mich do slyly beckon, It's with these choices I must reckon: , · Should I sit and concentrate, Or leave it for another date? Alas my dear old college life, You fill me with such blunted strife. Although ies work which they do measure, I'd rather mix my work with pleasure. Willie Basil , 'Jit, • ' ' ' \: ~! include modular· settings, sjmpJe, lighting and masks. The size :of the cast is also reduced from last year's mammoth interpretation of the Skin of Our Teetll. The focus of these changes is the refreshing concept for the , performance of this show; The Twin Menaechmi, you see, will be a ptwtable production. Like the roving acting companies of Medieval Europe (some of whom, · incidentally', were called 'mountebanks'), this band of Freshman Players will perform at · various locations around! the camp1.1s. The possibilities at this time are delicious; can you imagine an ancient Roman comedy working its magic on the steps of Memorial Chapel? Now finishing, its second week of rehearsal, this 1976 version of the Freshman Play already profii.ises to be· a unique experience in student performance at Union. In mounting the show, the director, Professor llarry Smith, and the designer, Professor Charles Steckler, will be assisted by two · assistant directors, seniors J ody Stolhnack and Gary Levy. All members of the coll\:ge are encouraged to stop by at the Nott Memorial Theatre if they are interested in helping in any aspect of the production. Phil H·olbrook, the Theatre Technician, will be there on any weekday from 9;30 a.m. to 5:30 p.m. culture Alan Wynroth, dir(?ctor Cabaret Opens New Season Are you interested in meeting every aspect of student life will people, performing, seeing unique answer your questions about how and unusual acts, \tech-ing\ it up things work (or don't). If you for a few close. friends, don't understand any part .of plastering posters in places of Union College, come to public purview, balancing Intellectual Cabaret and ask books or pigging out on peanuts? questions! If the answer to any of the above The Cabaret staff needs people is yes, then The Cabaret is the who are willing to donate their place for you! services on a full or part-time A short eXplanation is in order basis. Would you like to be a for those of you who are new to waiter, kitchen worker, light or t) nion or are just looking -beyond sound person, publicitY man, your beoks for the first time. The talejU scout, bookke~per or Cabaret is entirely student perfOrmer? Staff meetmgs are operated and offers, .among other every Thursday at 4:30 and are things, a stage for student talent, open to the entire student body. If no matter how bizarre, or how you have any questions contact sophisticated. Game Night each Becky White at 377-3686 or leave Tuesday gives you a chance to a note for her on the Cabaret decimate your , roommate · a,t board. ·~ . Stratego, Monopoly, ·or Craps, or If it is true that you have been just to sit back, eat a sundae and stapled to your lab table or could listen to music. The atmosphere is negotiate your way through the informal and relaxed. all-night study room with your For those of you who want to eyes closed, or you only go into understand a little more about the Carnegie to pick up your mail, workings o( Union College (or the then break out! Across from the lack thereof), there are Mail Room is the Cabaret (and hiteHectual Cabarets every don't be surpr;ised if you erijoy Monday night. Leaders from yourself)! THIS WEEK ADAM FREY (FIRE EATER EXTRAORDINAIRE) AND BILL BRINNIER (MARVELOUS MUSICIAN) Incidental Music- Rich Seaman This Week's M. C. - Matt Brief The PENNY PINCHER QUALITY CLOTHES- LOW PRICES Ui$ED BUT NOT ABUSED CURRENT STYL£S 1122 ALtAMONT AVE. (Entrance ~~@mice St.) Tuesday - Saturday 10..5 Thursday's till 9 p.m. 356-~571

EDITORIALS DELTA UPSILON. • 'f •• The brothers of L>U have been the victims of gtoss• generalizations and stereotypes and have taken the blame for much that was liot their fault. There ~an he little question, however, as to Whether DU was the cause of a nurrtber of campus incidents over the past year. The evidence, albeit circumstantial, .often points a wary finger at DU. In light of past occurrences, a serious administrative response was tong overdue. . QU, acting in the vein of understandable comaraderie, furthered its own stereotype by requesting that the .perpetmtors of the June 4th incident not he treated. as individuals, but that f~e fraternity be dealt with as a whole. Not all of the brothers were involved in the troublesome incident. It even seems that less were involved than were not. This being the situation, we must ask why the f~ateJ:nhy did not conduct its own 'house cleaning' and deal with the transgressors. accordingly. By failing to control unruly behavior on the part of its members, DU made administrative action imperative. We must support the Dean's decision, but question its justification. The activities of June 4th were not as disrupting as other incidents. By itself, that night did not result in an adequate provocation for the expulsion. Whereas Dean Smith tried to divorce his decision from DU's past history, we insist that such a decisiqn could not rightfully be made without looking at the fraternity's past. It is that past which offers the acceptable reason for the decision; the June 4th outburst was not serious enough pretext by itself. • • • PUNISHMENTS '_ ... ·AND OFFENSES But the issue ex,tends beyond Delta Upsilon and. goes to the heart of the security questio·n: ex·actly what behavior is unacceptable and what punishment can and should be applied to the guilty parties. Outside interference by thel police would be intolerable and might create a dangerous precedent. There cannot be any academic recriminations, and the levy.ing of fines would he inherently unequal and unfair. - The termination of housing contracts represents the administration's freshest response to security problems. But how is the school to deal with transgressions that do not merit such harsh treatment? Unfortunately, not renewing a housing contract may both prove to be unfair and result in the functional ex:oneration of guilty individuals: what commensurate actions can be taken against students living off campus or seniors who live in the dorms? - This leaves the College armed with the threat (or ruling) of outright expulsion from Union. This, however, is the most serious consequence possible which the school can resort to and should be used as a response only to the heinous offense. In dealing with any kind of disturbance, the College must be careful not to infringe upon the liberties of students, even those who are suspect. We must not respond to an offense in a manner that similarly is illegal. And exactly what constitutes a \punishable offense?\ We have heard racism, anti-Semitism, anti-feminism, and various other categories labeled as wrong behaviors; out we have no legal definition of the acts as meriting retribution. Furthermore, this list of crimes is anything but exhaustive. The College must clearly delineate what constitutes illegal activity and create a system of corresponding consequences. We call for a legislative definition of offenses which will enable the applicable bodies to deal with the offenders. Similarly, we demand a strict clarification of retributive measures and a clear understanding of which of these measures can be held applicable to each offense. And, above all, the students' rights mu·st be protected. R.S.V.P., PLEASE • / Stnorgasboard~ Anyone.? ~ By GLENN WOLFSON One of the most talked about, but least acted upon topics at Union College, has been the status o( the Comprehensive Education Program. Although proposals calling for mod-ification in the system have. origipateq from the Educational Policy Committee (or its pr~ecessor, the Curricular Affairs Committee), the program has remained . relatively unchanged during the' past 3 years. This blind' perpetuation of the ·status quo and lack of attention to the entire academic program (as opposed to gains made in the areas of athletics and student life) has been Union's biggest failure. Proposals which have survived the vitriolic atmosphere of faculty 'divisional meetings and chaotic meetings of the Student Forum, have been either tabled or defeated by the All-College Senate. On two such occassions, these proposals were labeled as \meiitricious \a bag of worms,\ and \intellectually shoddy.\ Evaluation and criticism, of proposals which advocate change in the educational program is both •desirable· and ·essential for the improvement of the institution. This is especially true for pr'?posals wp:ich deal with the heart of the college's curriculum, the general education program. Little is to be gained by childish and ad hominem responses. The most astonishing fact, hawever, is that those who have been the .proposals' most ardent opponents have, in most cases, confined themselves to-the taking of.cheap shots rather than assuming the . initiative for proposing viable educational al~e-r-natives. Hopefully, ~ituations such as this will be permanently buried in our past. But what about the present? Under the direction of the new Dean of Faculty and recently appointed Associate Dean of Faculty, it seems that this year presents a golden opportunity for .... L· ·.:E. ·-r- r•··· ·~-.·E.·.·· J ·R: · ... s.· ·. ·_ .• - ' ·- • - <, . ., . . .. · . ', the College to make some far~ reaching curricular changes .in its general education program., Ultimately, however, the major responsibility will lie on the shoulders of those who fmmulate educational policy, i.e. the Educational Policy Committee, . ancl upon those who pass judgements on these, proposals, Le. the Student Forum, the entire faculty body, and finally the AU.,. College Senate. All those who are involved in the . above process must · approach this important task with a sense of responsibility and educational commitment so tlmt Union College may finally acquire what it se desperately needs, a functioning general education. program ... lf not, the Comprehensive Edueation Program will. remam \as an educational cafeteria which provides the student with a bewildering variefy of dishes' fro.m Which to choose. And the student body will experience an ever increasing acute case of intellectual indigestion. whi~ en vi Qoul poll all < wall ston tnak Cont Lrs ltitiz !:Inti non- shot par To Jl •of 1 &Pee Con Whc U.nic ''\vh, it\ hear ~olle w

Page6 CONCORDIENSIS, Wednesday, Oct. 6, 1976 ----------------------------------------------------·--~------~~--~--------------~~------------------------- EDITORIALS DELTA UPSILON~ .. The brothers of DU have been the VJctlms of gross generalizations and stereotypes and have taken the blame for much that was not their fault. There can be little question, however, as to whether DU was the cause of a number of campus incidents over the past year. The evidence, albeit circumstantial, often points a wary finger at DU. In light of past occurrences, a serious administrative response was long overdue. D U, acting in the vein of understandable camaraderie, furthered its own stereotype by requesting that the perpetrators of the June 4th incident not be treated as individuals, but that the fraternity be dealt with as a whole. Not all of the brothers were involved in the troublesome incident. It even seems that less were involved than were not. This being the situation, we must ask why the fraternity did not conduct its own 'house cleaning' and deal with the transgressors accordingly. By failing to control unruly behavior on the part of its members, DU made administrative action imperative. We must support the Dean's decision, but question its justification. The activities of June 4th were not as disrupting as other incidents. By itself, that night did not result in an adequate provocation for the expulsion. Whereas Dean Smith tried to divorce his decision from D U's past history, we insist that such a decision could not rightfully be made without looking at the fraternity's past. It is that past which offers the acceptable reason for the decision; the June 4th out burst was not serious enough pretext by itself. • • • PUNISHMENTS • .. AND 0 FFENSES But the issue extends beyond Delta Upsilon and goes to the heart of the security question: exactly what behavior is unacceptable and what punishment can and should be applied to the guilty parties. Outside interference by the police would be intolerable and might create a dangerous precedent. There cannot be any academic recriminations, and the levying of fines would be inherently unequal and unfair. The termination of housing contracts represents the administration's freshest response to security problems. But how is the school to deal with transgressions that do not merit such harsh treatment? Unfortunately, not renewing a housing contract may both prove to be unfair and result in the functional exoneration of guilty individuals: what commensurate actions can be taken against students living off campus or seniors who live in the dorms? This leaves the College armed with the threat (or ruling) of outright expulsion from Union. This, however, is the most serious consequence possible which the school can resort to and should be used as a response only to the heinous offense. In dealing with any kind of disturbance, the College must be careful not to infringe upon the liberties of students, even those who are suspect. We must not respond to an offense in a manner that similarly is illegal. And exactly what constitutes a \punishable offense?\ We have heard racism, anti-Semitism, anti-feminism, and various other categories labeled as wrong behaviors; but we have no legal definition of the acts as meriting retribution. Furthermore, this list of crimes is anything but exhaustive. The College must clearly delineate what constitutes illegal activity and create a system of corresponding consequences. We call for a legislative definition of offenses which will enable the applicable bodies to deal with the offenders. Similarly, we demand a strict clarification of retributive measures and a clear understanding of which of these measures can be held applicable to each offense. And, above all, the students' rights must be protected. R.S.V.P., PLEASE Last week, Concordiensis ran two by-lined articles which generated a great deal of controversy - or so it seemed. The day after the newspaper was distributed, the writers of the two articles were barraged by feedback, both positive and negative. As is aiways the case, the readers who disliked the articles wete extremely upset. Some even went so far as to claim that the articles were poorly or inaccurately written and were printed for some reason other than their merit. The dissatisfied parties were encouraged by the editors of Concordy to submit for publication a written statement of their opinions involving the issues in question. They assured the editors that they would certainly hand in something stating the \real facts\ of the stories. They didn't. It is Concordy's editorial policy to consider any piece of writing that is submitted for insertion in the upcoming issue. The newspaper is a medium for the entire College community students as well as faculty and administration - and always will be run that way. Many readers criticize articles that appear in Concordy, but very few ever take the time or make the effort to write something themselves. Concordy is trying to get as much input from as many varied sources as possible. However, dissatisfied readers cannot be forced to write letters. So, if you read something in this or any issue of Concordy that you don't like, write! It doesn't hurt, and it will, in the long run, benefit both the College community and the newspaper. • ... MY!ll! Wl>lbl<.l! ,r >1 ~);II ~,.v{i\ \ 11 N%T, .r:r M1J. CYtlfi B/£ ,~v. ~ • . , ' S01orgasboard~ Anyone ? By GLENN WOLFSON One of the most talked about, but least acted upon topics at Union College, has been the status of the Comprehensive Education Program. Although proposals calling for modification in the system have originated from the Educational Policy Committee (or its pre'decessor, the Curricular Affairs Committee), the program has remained . relatively unchanged during the' past 3 years. This blind perpetuation of the status quo and lack of attention to the entire academic program (as opposed to gains made in the areas of athletics and student life) has been Union's biggest failure. Proposals which have survived the vitriolic atmosphere of faculty divisional meetings and cha.1tic meetings of the Student Forum, have been either tabled or defeated by the AllgCollege Senate. On two such occassions, these proposals were labeled as nott a renovation To the Editors I must question the use of the title \Nott Renovated\ for last week's article on summer repairs and improvements of the Nott Memorial Theater. Not withstanding the excellent job completed this summer by the students, the work was directed toward improving the theater and \meritricious \a bag of worms,\ and \intellectually shoddy.\ Evaluation and cntJctsm of proposals which advocate change in the educational program is both ·desirable and essential for the improvement of the institution. This is especially true for proposals which deal with the heart of the college's curriculum, the general education program. Little is to be gained by childish and ad hominem responses. The most astonishing fact, however, is that those who have been the proposals' most ardent opponents have, in most cases, confined themselves to the taking of cheap shots rather than assuming the initiative for proposing viable e d uc at i on a I a Iter natives . Hopefully, situations such as this will be permanently buried in our past. But what about the present? Under the direction of the new Dean of Faculty and recently appointed Associate Dean of Faculty, it seems that this year presents a golden opportunity for LETTERS standing. Pl~ns for repaiting the crumbling roof are in the bid stage, and when completed, will begin actual renovative work. ln the meantime, let us support any improvement or project for our ailing Nott Memorial. Sincerely, KEVIN SCHAR Y ••save the Nott Committee\ the College to make some fai- reaching curricular changes in its general education program. Ultimately, however, the major responsibility will lie on the shoulders of those who formulate educational policy, i.e. the Educational Policy Committee, and upon those who pass judgements on these proposals, i.e. the Student Forum, the entire faculty body, and finally the All- College Senate. AN those who are involved in the above process must ·approach this important task with a sense of responsibility and educational commitment so that Union College may finally acquire what it so desperately needs, a functioning general education program. If not, the Comprehensive Education Program will remain as an educational cafeteria which provides the student with a bewildering variety of dishes from which to choose. And the student body will experience an ever increasing acute case of intellectual indigestion. me great extra concern to replace many of the documents. The loss of my driving license, for example,. may spoil all my plans for next sumrner .. To retum the wallet, slip it into \Student Mail\ at the mail room, with the box number l30S on the envelope, or leave it somewhere where an honest person can see it. V.L. its facilities. The project was well dearest burgler .•. worthwhile but to label it W.hy sell pollutants! \renovation\ gives the false impression that the Nott received c/o the editors: To the EditOI'S some badly needed structural The other day l was looking repairs - a ve.ry different project Dear Mrs., ~~~s, Ms., or Mr. through our college bookstore than the one undertaken this Thief': with the intent of· buying such summer. These fine distinctions Please do return my wallet, necessary .articles as pens, papt.>r,. must be made between work done which you took from a table at etc. l noticed that, in an attempt for the theater (usually student Hale House on Tuesday, Sept 28, to save the students the trouble of ·efforts), and structural and before lUnch time~ I do not mind going to a grocery store, the renovative work (implying your keeping the money - I have bookstore sold laundry detergent. contractors and college funding already made up the loss of it .by The only laundry detergent that - larger projects) because the not eating for a Jew days -:- but tf\e boQkstore makes available to Nott Memorial needs plenty of the rest of the wallet's contents is students is Ticle. Now Tide work (and monev) just to keep it indispettsable for me. It will cause deter:gent conU.ins nh\•·'lhates ~-----------~---------------~--~~~--------~ I ·' ~i~ j \ l• '. i; ~1 '? ;. ' ' ~ whic en vir COUl< poilu all o walk store make cont1 It's t citize until non-1 shoul pau To Ju of t1 speci Con( Whe; Unio ''whe it\ t heart colle 1 w(

I s .. r .. Jor: .. ,.. ... ,Plamt the Mail .. box pe, or .. ,.~, ·. .:.:• .... .... blepf , ~he that to CONCORDlENSlS, Weqnesday, Dct. 6, 1976. Pagel <Of Help W an.ted: Academics · No one can deny that Union has made tremendous str.ides the .past few years in the realms of both social and athletic expansion. The Cabaret and all its successful spin-offs, the Film Committee .and its midweek series, Speaker's. Board, an increased interest m campus committees, and the Dutch l'lollow Pub have all enhanceq and added to tb¢ scope of activities provided for the Union College Community. In a similar vein, athletic programs have improved con$iderably. There has been an increase in ·woman's spprts programs as well as a long needed expansion ·of the intramurafs p.rogram. The addition of the Achilles &ink coupled with the above programs have gJ,\eatly improvetl athletic life at Union. Improvements still need to be· made · in both areas, but significant progress ha~ already taken place. This brings us to the only facet ·of Union College life in which there has been no appreciably noticed progress - academics. The Washington Hving ~hair is a welcome addition in that it will bring :visiting scholars to teach on campus. However, academic programs seem to have stagnated. During. my · __ Freshman By \MATT B'RlEJi' orientation, 1 was to'ld over and over again that the Comp Ed. program was a mess and that most Freshman electives Were a Waste. Despite mlrtbr tinkering · with the Com,p, Ed. program, upperclassmen, are still telling Freshmen the s~J;m~ stories abouy. Comp. Ed. Its faults are blatant; when- an English majer can't get an Option in Science credit for Physics, or a Chemistry Major can•t ,get credit for a Shakespeare course because they aren't \cross- listed,\ the concept qf a. Comp. Ed. ge·n.eral education is in itself defeated. Comprehensive Education isn't the only area Where stagnation has occurred. Academic advising has a'lso been a source of troubles. A few prokssors make _()utstanding advisors; ethers don't know the time of day. Most fall into- a gray area of being knowledgeable of their own departments, but uninformed about other depax:tments and content to sign any course schedule handed , them. Their advice is invariably limited to \take whatever you want,\ and contact is limited to a quick meeting during pre-registration. It is not uncommon for upperclassmen to say they haven't ·seen their ~td visors in 2 years. I hese and other problems must fal1 on the shoulders of Dean 'Paula Br(,;)wnlee. Her credentials are imprel)sive and she is certainly a nice person. Her role is to supply th~;~t one quality, Which eur faculty sadly lacks, namely leadership. Brownlee must overcome· the petty divisiveness that exists betWeen certain members of the faculty; she must overcome a lack ·of initiative· which affects this group to the point where no new proposals of any significance have been .offered by them to the All-College Senate. She must end the incessant squabblin'g over improvements and push for concr~;te changes in Comp. Eds. and also advising; she must en.coiirage the faculty to contribute in areas outside of the classroom, ancl fi.pally, she mHst ·be inno¥ative in the one college area which has seen little innovation, namely academics. No one can deny the talent of our faculty. They are intelligent individuals,. good teachers, nice people and certainly eager to help. What they need is someone to shatter their 'lethargy and utilize theit ta:le'nts to the fullest extent. All students should wish Dean Brownlee the best of luck. -Family Influences on Voting B·ehovior The · Presidential campaign · his preference to match that of his Dr. Weiner found that a extends well into the world ·<>f wife. husband is more likely to change academe, particularly through ''Twenty years ago, it was to a wife's party preference under facultyresearchatUnion.Several- argued that tnen were ·certain conditions, namely, when professors are presently engaged overwhelmingly dominant in the the wife is Republican, is from a in a research· effo1t designed to selection of party preference,\· ~igher educ~tionaJ background, study the various facets .of says Dr. Weiner. \Thaes . no and collies from .a higher social electoral behavior. Dr. 'ferry longer the case. Men are still class, \Being Republican -is Weiner, an assistant prpfessor of dominant, but no longer equivalent to being of a higher sociology at Union, recently overwhelmingly so.\ · social s~atus,\ says Dr. Weiner. completed a \Study .of party \Over. time, the ,influence of \When a man ·marries into a preference as affected by women is gaining in the family. family of higher social status, he m a r'ri age. - The project .Politicians can't go to the factol'y . ~ends ~o take ??.it.~ pataphe{nalia, . concentrates 'on the interaction gates anymore .and pretend that 1ncludmg political party.\ '- between husbands and wives in· the males they shake hands with Some researchers have found arriving at the party of their will go home and convert the that the longer a couple is _ choice. females. . together, the more likely it is that According to Or. Weiner, p~rty At the same time, Dr. Weiner they. will have a common party preference is \homogeneous\ in 8 says he sees a trend toward preference; however; Dr. Weiner out of lO marriages; that is, the increasing independence between didn~t find much support for that spouses belong to the same party. spouses in party selection. \I hypothesis. \The percentage of But Dr. Weiner found that only 4 would guess that the percentage couples with common party out ~f l(} max;riages started out of married people with the same preference married 12 years was with : such · <,tgreement. Quips .party preference will decrease. not significantly higher dian that W~iner, \That means there's an The family votes less and less as a of couples married just four awfuiiy lot ofch!lnginggoing on.\ unit.\ years.\ He concludes that if a In tnost cases ~ \perhaps 3 out Coitfusing . the picture is an change in party preference is not of 5,\ - the woman changes her increasing percentage of voters made in the early years of preference to align her views with who belong to neither political marriage, \it is not likely to be those of her husband, says Dr. · party but who simply list made at aU.\ Weiner. In roughly 2 out of 5 themselves as indepe.ndents. ''That In doing his .study, Dr. Weiner cases, then, the husbaf!d changes may be just a way of saying they used data collected in surveys by don't agree,\ s~.ys Dr. Weiner. the Institute for Research in the Piineeton, Yale., . uutny 9ther ''Ivy~· Sclfloc:ns:/·· ·we . visiteq. i · Lehig-h, 8ucktt~U, ... Colg~, · 'Varnell. JC\Iil~b·'WliE'I' titk-e4hl:.: trWI~H·tP• ·· \'\• ,lfflatla, ·•Bind'·\th~n a~ftiehU\i:oJd' U$ ~n.J•Ont)be~~nea:restigJ:(lQ~r,y,., . .,.... ··Jtbout ··lli:nion:r .. ,<. · ............... , · > .. •\''\'\ .. ,,. .. · · ..... . .} . Just .... , ... ,, ..... ~l!t't•CQ;nl.e, .... )~'Aw·.Sa:~~'\:-:an~ .. ··t<bat, .. :~~£~t~e \ .. number.,. Qne, ..... ~bPJ$».-.,·fln, • . fact~~O ~~l' 'school ·W@oS, .. ~pplied'~ to.. Our~ .was accepted . under· \eArl¥ decision.\ ,, - ,, · .... , . ,.;WK~~ve. read about:Ca.:teti we've Social S,ciences. The sux:veys, taken in 1970, compared the political preferences of Jl and 32 year-olds with their preferences in 1955 • ''The results basicaliy reflect those who came of age in the early 1960~s.\ says Dr. Weiner. As to how changes in party preference are actually brol)ght about in the home, Dr. Weiner can't say. Nor, probably, can anyone else. ''If there's any trouble with social science data righf now it's the overwhelming tendency to do all of these things through surveys, rather than taking a tape recorder and trying to get these conversations in the home.\ · ''If it happens that you find one party preference at dne iime;, and another .preference at another time, you have to .conclude that they've changed. But how or why they've changed remains to be seen.'' speciaf'••lftte11.t!ati~n '·*issnC'\:. \''\ ~~out .eh~v· ·· · .··· · \\ CGncordien&fll.: ·¥uwre , sO'·· ·right!· · ·· · · '\ ·· Sin~l'elo/; .· · ,, ···~ Whene'!t'f .(IJ1tf- uft Ull: mertti()M \ , A ~ARENT OF Union CoUee~ we get ... the . A f:RESH MAN . . ; ''Where'~ that?\r.or·t(never !'Ward of•\ , · n.s. Would'· have stgned Mme it\ hik ''Ftaffktyr -wcr':'•had\·''infver' · \ .bttt \ .. ~our~· , ·freshman mi\'lrl:··''·'not· ·I a bout the arts .... FROM THE PR:ESIDENT'S DESK Every person in our college community has a stake in the future of the arts program at Union. I am personally committed to maintaining the forward movement of our search for an appropriate resoll;ltion. Last Spring, 1 appointed a visiting committee of distinguished persons in various areas of the arts to study our· current status and suggest directions for the future. That committee was headed by former Sarah Lawrence President Harold Taylor and inclu4ed composer and music educator Lionel Nowak of Bennington College, Frank McMullan, retired head of the directing department at the Yaie School of Drama, aond Robert Gray, dean of the School of Fine Arts at SUNY at Purchase. I hope each person on campus understands and appreciates the spirit in which their re12ort has been submitted and received. It is not a document that charts what the future of the arts program at Union will be. It is, rather, a document which makes recommendations that all of us at the college will have an opportunity to review and to weigh. fhe report is a forward step in a process that will involve ap.P.ropriate committees on caJ;Tipus and receive special attention from the provost and the dean of faculty. · Obviously the Office of College Resources will play an important mle in advising on funding sources required for any programs that are eventually undertaken. We must know that we can devo1e the financial resources required to ~ny program that promises to strengthen the college. I believe the report we have received focuses our attention rightly on our current strengths: Foremost among them the report cites its impression of Union as a .. Well-ordered, sound and responsible liberal arts college which does what it does very well and has its own ethos, created by a faculty, student body, administration, and alumni body who care about the college and what happens to it.\ The report also recognizes clearly that the arts is the \Least developed\ of our programs. rvtost promising to me was the impression Union students made on the committee which was one of \enthusiasm good sense, wit, imagination and creativ~ energy.\ The report does not, purposefully, posit specific recommendations about details of a program. But the broad outlines of a future direction ate placed beforeus as a college capable of dealing with the complex questio.ns that are raised. .J. urgeieach person cop.cernedabouttUnion College's future to take time to study the rep'ort. Be assured, each area of the college will have a role to play in arriving at decisions of interest to us all. I hope each of us grasps this opportunity to participate in what truly can be an -educational process. Editors~in-chief ........ , ........................ : ................................. howie lax. mike r.otondi News editors ....................................................................... matt brief glenn wolfson Features editor .......................................................... cindy sheppard Cultu're editor ........................................... marshall wisoff, joe millet Sports editors .................................. , ........................ charlie flanagan allyne price Copy editor .............................................................. susan finkelstein B1.1siness managers .......................................................... sheryl farber harris halpert Classifieds editor ............................................... : .............. todd miller Subscriptions editor ..................................................... harris hal pert Layout editor, calendar. ............................................... joe cappuccio Photography editor ....................................................... rich guardian Art editor ....................................................................... .lester weiss Staff this issue ......... ., .................................. joe ades, lydia fogelman, brad kessler, marjorie kohn, fran Iorber, marla lux, karen spar, audrey stein, barbara stern, eileen thomas su!! ekstrom, rich berniker Photo staff this issue .................................. jeff.gerst, m~uc gottleib, ' charlie greene, julie seeger, mike kolesa, big al, cary fev.erman, steve grill, jon·flescher, mitch mindlin; rudy lu Cillendar............................ ·· ... : ...... : ..... : ... : ... joe ades' CONCORDIENSIS is published every Wednesday by the student body of Union College, Old Gym Hall, Schenectady, New York.; to Which Postal Forms 3579 are directed. Publications· Office: The Jewish World Publications, 416 Smith St., Schenectady, N.Y. 12305 (370-5483). Entered In the Scheneetady Post Office as Second Class Matter. Subscription Rate 35 cents per copy, Slf). a year de,ivered anywhere in the United States. .. Dt Weiner, a graduate of the University of Illinois at Chicago Circle, Undertook the study as part of dissertation research at the University of North Carolina at Chapel Hill which he completed in 1975. He is currently involved in a study of the impact of education on political party ···•••••••••••••••••••••••• preference. ' ~ ... ~ .. ------ --

loss for plans the box or an store such .. of the gent. that to Tide .. \ :{ . II ~· i' h' ' ' ~ '' (;t'; i >I CONCORDIENSIS, Wednesday, Oct. 6, 1976 Page 7 Help Wanted: Academics No one can deny that Union has made tFernendous strides the past few years in the realms of both social and athletic expansion. The Cabaret and all its successful spin-offs, the Film Committee aad its midweek series, Speaker's Board, aR increased interest in campus committees, and the Dutch Hollow Pub have all enhanced and added to the scope of activities provided for the Union College Community. 111 a similar vein, athletic programs have improved considerably. There has been an increase in woman's sports programs as weB as a long needed expansion of the intramurals program. The addition of the AchiUes Rink coupled with the above programs have greatly improved athletic life at Union. Improvements still need to be made in both areas, but significant progress has already taken place. This brings us to the only facet of Union College life in which there has been no appreciably noticed progress - academics. The Washington Irving Chair is a welcome addition in that it will bring visiting scholars to teach on campus. However, academic programs seem to have stagnated. During my Freshman By MATT BRIEF orientation, I was told over and over again that the Comp Ed. program was a mess and that most Freshman electives were a waste. Despite minor tinkering with the Comp. Ed. program, upperclassmen are still tel:ling Freshmen tile same stories abouy Camp. Ed. Its faults are blatant, when an English major can't get an Option in Science credit for Physics, or a Cfuemistry Major can't get credit for a Shakespeare course because they aren't \cross- J,isted,\ the concept of a Comp. Ed. general education is in itself defeated. Comprehensive EducatioN isn't the only area where stagnation has occurred. Academic advising has also been a source of troubles. A few professors rna ke outstanding advisors; others don't know the time of day. Most fall into a gray area of being knowledgeable of their own departments, but uninformed about other departments and conteRt to sign any course schedule handed them. Their advice is invariably limited to \take whatever you want,\ and contact is limited to a quick meeting during pre-registration. It is not uncommon for upperclassmen to say they haven't seen their advisors m 2 years. I hese and other problems must fall Oil the shoulders of Dean Paula Brownlee. Her credentials are impressive and she is certainly a nice person. Her role is to supply that one quality, which our faculty sadly lacks, namely leadership. Brownlee must overcome the petty divisiveness that exists between certain members of the faculty; she must overcome a lack of initiative which affects this group to the point where no new proposals of any significance have been offered by them to the All-College Senate. She must end the incessant squabbling over improvements and push for concrete changes in Comp. Eds. and also advising; she must encourage the faculty to contribute in areas outside of the classroom, and finally, she must be innovative in the one college area which has SIO!en little innovation, namely academics. No one can deny the talent of our faculty. They are intelligent individuals, good teachers, nice people aud certainly eager to help. What they need is someone to shatter their lethargy and utilize their talents to the fullest extent. All students should wish Dean Brownlee the best of luck. Fomily Influences on Voting Behavior The Presidential campaign extends well into the world of academe, particularly through faculty research at Union. Several professors are presently engaged in a research· effort designed to study the various facets of electoral behavior. Dr. Terry Weiner, an assistant professor of sociology at Union, recently completed a study of party preference as affected by marriage. The project concentrates on the interaction between husbands and wives in arriving at the party of their choice. According to Dr. Weiner, party preference is \homogeneous\ in 8 out of lO marriages; that is, the spouses belong to the same party. But Dr. Weiner found that only 4 out of 10 marriages started out with such agreement. Quips Weiner, \That means there's an awfully lot of changing going on.\ In most cases - \perhaps 3 out of 5,\ - the woman changes her preference to align her views with those of her husband, says Dr. Weiner. In roughly 2 out of 5 cases, then, the husband changes his preference to match that of his wife. \Twenty years ago, it was argued that men were overwhelmingly dominant in the selection of party preference,\ says Dr. Weiner. \That's no longer the case. Men are still dominant, but no longer overwhelmingly so.\ \Over time, the influence of women is gaining in the family. Politicians can't go to the factory gates anymore and pretend that the males they shake hands with will go home and convert the females. At the same time, Dr. Weiner says he sees a trend toward increasing independence between spouses in party selection. \I would guess that the percentage of married people with the same party preference will decrease. The family votes less and less as a unit.\ Confusing the picture is an increasing percentage of voters who belong to neither political party but who simply list themselves as independents. \lhat may be just a way of saying they don't agree,\ says Dr. Weiner. which are very \armful to our envir-onment .. The \very least that could be offered\ ts a non- polluting detergent. I . hope that all of you will take the trouble to walk down to the rtearest grocery store (it is not that far) in order to tnake a small but helpful contribution in fighting pollution. It's the very least a responsible citizen can do. In other words, until the bookstore will offer a non-polluting detereent. students should boycott Tide. Princeton, Yale, Dartmouth and many other ''Ivy\ schools. Then we visited Tufts, · Lehigh, Buckn,eH, Colgate, Cornell, Ithaca, and then a friend told us about Union. Sincerely, BOB GRUSKY parental pnJse To the Editors We came, we saw, and that became number one choice. ln fact, no other school was applied to. \Ours\ .was accepted under! \early decision.'' We've read ab()ut Carter, we've read about the $56,000 grant funded by the Office of University Research (an arm of the US Dept. . · of transporta-tion) for the purpose of studying the energy eff:iciency of intercity rail passenger service in the New York City - Buffalo corridet. ~ What Union College needs is a good public relations per&<m and some ''favorable heatff!i'nes\ ~ Oood Luck #I - we'll be hearing 'bo.ut cha. Sincerely, A PARENT OF A FRESHMAN Dr. Weiner found that a husband is more likely to change to a wife's party preference under \certain conditions, namely, when the wife is Republican, is from a higher educational background, and comes from a higher social class. \Being Republican is equivalent to being of a higher social status,\ says Dr. Weiner. \When a man marries into a family of higher social status, he tends to take on its paraphernalia, including political party.\ Some researchers have found that the longer a couple is together, the more likely it is that they will have a common party preference; however, Dr. Weiner didn't find much support for that hypothesis. \The percentage of couples with common party preference married 12 years was not significantly higher than that of couples married just four years.'' He concludes that if a change in party preference is not made in the early years of marriage, \it is not likely to be made at all.'' In doing his study, Dr. Weiner used data collected in surveys by the Institute for Research in the Social Sciences. The surveys, taken in 1970, compared the political preferences of 31 and 32 year-olds with their preferences in 1955. \The results basically reflect those who came of age in the early 1960's,\ says Dr. Weiner. As to how changes in party preference are actually brought about in the home, Dr. Weiner can't say. Nor, probably, can anyone else. \If there's any trouble with social science data right now it's the overwhelming tendency to do all of these things through surveys, rather than taking a tape recorder and trying to get these conversations in the home.\ \If it happens that you find one party preference at one iime, and another preference at another time, you have to conclude that they've changed. But how or why they've changed remains to be seen.\ a bout the ar ts .... FROM THE PRESIDENT'S DESK Every person in our college community has a stake in the future of the arts program at Union. I am personally committed to maintaining the forward movement of our search for an appropriate resolution. Last Spring, I appointed a visiting committee of distinguished persons in various areas of the arts to study our current status and suggest directions for the future. That committee was headed by former Sarah Lawrence President Harold Taylor and inclu~ed composer and music educator Lionel Nowak of Bennington College, Frank McMullan, retired head of the directing department at the Yale School of Drama, and Robert Gray, dean of the School of Fine Arts at SUNY at Purchase. I hope each person on campus understands and appreciates the spirit in which their report has been submitted and received. It is not a document that charts what the future of the arts program at Union will he. It is, rather, a document which makes recommendations that all of us at the college will have an opportunity to review and to weigh. lhe report is a fomard step in a process that \\-ill involve appropriate committees on campus and receive special attention from the provost and the dean of faculty. Obviously the Office of College Resources \'ill play an important role in advising on funding sources required for any programs that are eventually undertaken. We must know that ~e can devote the financial resources re4uired to any program that promises to strengthen the co liege. I helieve the report we have receiwd focuses our attention rightly on our current strengths. Foremost among them the report cites its impression of Union as a \Well-ordered sound and re!:>ponsihle liberal arts college which does what it does very well and has its own ethos, created by a faculty, student body, administration, and alumni body who care about the college and what happens to it.\ ·I he report also recognizes clearly that the arts is the \Least developed\ of our programs. Most promising to me was the impression Union students made on the committee which was o'ne of \enthusiasm good sense, wit. imagination and creative energy.\ rhe report does not, purposefully, posit specific recommendations about details of a program. But the broad outlines of a future direction are placed beforeus as a college capable of dealing with the complex questions that are raised. I urge each person concernedaboui!Union College's future to take time to study the report. Be assured, each area of the college will have a role to play in arriving at decisions of interest to us all. I hope each of us grasps this opportunity to participate in what truly can be an educational process. n Editors-in-chief .................................................................. how1e lax mike rotondi News editors .............................. , ...................................... matt brief glenn wolfson Features editor .......................................................... cindy sheppard Culture editor. .......................................... marshall wisoff, joe millet Sports editors ........................................................... charlie flanagan allyne price Copy editor .............................................................. susan finkelstein Business managers ......................................................... sheryl farber , harris hal pert Classifieds editor .............................................................. todd miller Sub · · d. · scnptwns e 1tor .................................................... harns halpert Layout editor, calendar. ............................................... joe cappuccio Photography editor ...................................................... rich guardian Art editor.. .................................................................... lester weiss Staff this i~sue ............................................ joe a des, lydia fogelman, brad kessler, marjorie kohn, fran Iorber, marla lux, karen spar, audrey stein, barbara stern, eileen thomas su~ ekstrom, rich berniker Photo staff this issue .................................. jeff gerst, marc gottle1b, · charlie greene, julie seeger, mike kolesa, big al, cary feverman, steve grill, jon nescher, mitch rnindlin, rudy lu Calendar ........................... . ........................ joe ades CONCORDIENSIS is published every Wednesday by the student body of Union College, Old Gym Hall, Schenectady, New York.; to which Postal Forms 3579 are directed. Publications Office: The Jewish World Publications, 416 Smith St., Schenectady, N.Y. 12305 (370-5483). Entered in the Schenectady Post Office as Second Class Matter. Subscription Rate 35 cents per copy, SIO. a year delivered anywhere in the United States. Just finished reading \Students of the Unknown Tomb.,., in the special orientation issue of the Concordiensis. You're so tight! Whenever one of us mentions Union College, . we get . the ''where's that'!'' or \never heard. of it\ hit. Frankly. we had .never heard of it either uutil we. went college-huming ·last year. We· went to Harvard; Brown, P.S. Would have signed name but ·~our\ freshman might not approve ·of our involvement but surely would agree with our thinking, D~. Weiner, a graduate of the University of Illinois at Chicago Circle, undertook the study as part l)f dissertation research at the University of North Carolina at Chapel Hill which he completed in 1975. He is currently involved in a study of the impact of education on political party ••••••••••••••••••••••••••• preference. _____ ·-- - ---

· Page8 CONCORDl.E.NSIS; Wednesda~;Oct: 6; .1976. Title IX continued from page 1 predominance of males receiving aid could be due to factors other than discrimination. But the twist is this - in the past year allegations concerning the existence of de facto male athletic scholarships have been made (under NESCAC, schoals' athletic scholarships are prohibit~::d). If any of these allegations have a basis in fact, then l)nion is not only breaking NESCAC and Union policy, but also the law. It is illegal to provide aid only to athletes who compete in single sex sports. Title IX provides that \reasonable opportunities for athletic scholarship should be in proportion to the number of students of each sex participating in interscholastic or intercollegiate athletics.\ COUNSELING The report on file dealt with the Counseling Center, which is located in Wells House. Although the statistics indicated that women were utilizing the center as much as or even more than men, a request was once again forthcoming for an additional staff member, ~pecifically a women. counseling enlarged by O'Flattery. Last spring the center staff was the hiring of Phyllis Although no reports were present on career counseling or faculty advising, Cl>ncordy has been assured that these aveas an~ being examined. Considering the Vl.'lrious attempts l.'lt revamping the latter system, it seems that this examination could be expanded to consider the other problems and inconsistencies in faculty advising. In conclusion, it appears that Union College has taken steps in certain areas regarding Title IX. Next week, Concordy will examine changes in the health service,. the report on extra- curricular activities, and the grievances against the athletic department. If anyone has ~Jc· question, a complaint, or grievance dealing with Title IX, the people to contact are: aeverly Hill, Directo:r of Personnel and Affirmative Action Officer; Dean Smith, Dean of Students· and Title JX Coordinator. '••······················J·····4 • . 1 ·. • : DUTCH HOLLOW : • 370-6050 370-6051 • : SUNDAY NIGHT BUFFET : : ALL YOU CAN EAT FOR : • $3.95 .• • • • 5-8 pm • • Let our waitPesses and waiters • • serve you from our new Dinner Menu • : Q:n Thursday, Friday, ar.d.Saturday : ······························~ - ~ r .. , Get the J?reat new taste in mocna, coconut, banana or strt_Iwberry. ATTENTION! ATTENTION! All freshmen· interested in t11king part in Student Government Committees,· there will be a signup list in Student Activities (to the right of the mailropm) on Mrs. Marra's ·desk. Don't compluin - get involved. Any questions call Michael Gl!nZ at 3706186. THE BLOODMOBILE IS COMING Tuesday, Octo!Jer 26 and Wednesday; October 27 Lifesaving (and timesaving) sppointments can be made at the Student Activities Office in Carnegie Hall, .a few steps from the Mail Room. WATSON TRAVE(.LING FELLOWSHIPS ·Union College has agairi been invited to nominate four candidates for WatsQn Fellowships. The awards are intended to give new graduates a year abroad immediately <1fter graduation, and may be used for any purpose other tha!l formal study in a foreign university. All ·graduating Seniors are eligi b1e for consideration regardless .of sex, age, nationality, undergraduate program, and prev.ious experience abroa·d. Each Fellowship is worth $7,000 ($9,500 for married students). As the . names of the candidates nominated by the College have to be submitted to the Watson Foundation by November I, it will not ·be pessible for the nominating Committee to consider applications submitted after Monday, October 18. Seniors interested in the program should consult Professor Reece for details as soon as possible. He will be available in his office (Humi!nities building 2t5E) every afternoon between 1.:30 and 4 p.m. ARE YOU A MlDtET?' . Lover? I've got a 1971 MG · Midget for sale; clean, 47,000 miles, new brakes, top in excellent shape. I'm 3onna miss . it! Call me at 482·8991)• before 6 . . or 458-7102 after 6. CARNEGIE .MELLON RECRUITING WQMEN the Carnegie·M¢1lon Gradqate School of lndustriai Administration, one of several gradb'ate schools tecruitin~ .at Union ·during the fall term, 'has. issued a request to meet with students who may have the ·potential for success as managers (MS), researchers (Ph.O,).. and teacher$ (Ph.D.). In aqdition to utilizing normal channels of communication, the Director of Admissions has contacted the Women's Caucus in hopes of dispelling any single sex i!nages of the institution. 'interviews can be arranged through the Placement Office for October II. · BULLETIN B(;):ARD Ride Needed ~ To Rye, N.Y. or Fairfield Count:y, Connecticut on 'friday, ·oct. 8 - will gladly share ·expenses. Contact :Bobby 346-9829~ Atte.ntion ·F~eshman! An important qrganizational meeting of the Union College Protect Your Environment Club will take place OJJ. Monday Night, Oct. II, at 7:30 p.m. in Strauss Lounge, Student Center. Projects for the coming year will be discussed. Any student with an interest in .any aspect .of environmental affairs is urged to attend, underclassmen are espe.cially invited to maintain the Club's leadership role in the community, and will have the opportJ.!I'lity to hold responsible positions in our organization. If you cannot attend, please leave your name and number with Mrs. Marra ih the Student Activities office. Mini Course .... ..Decision-Making and the Christian,\ Octeber 7, 14, 21, 9:00- 10:00 p.m. at Sister Pat's residence, 816 Union St., Tel: 346-;2898. 'The course will focus on decision-making and explore ways in which lhe. Christian can approach contemporary issues. Those who participate are encouraged to· attend all three sessions. For more information, contact Sister Pat. All pre-law studeht'S -· The following law school representatives will be availabie in Prof. Board's office to talk with students: Oct. 7, 3-5 p.m., Prof Dan KimbaH, Cornell. Oct. 13, 9-11:30 a.m., Prof. Melvin Shimm, Duke. Anyone interested in applying for Scandinavian Seminar's study abroad program in Denmark, Finland, Norway, or Sweden for a academic year 1977-78 should inquiry.a.t the .Concordy office. . \ I -, • '· Th~ •.. \City of Schenectady's · ·' ·Ertviro·timental Conservation Commission irtvites you to its first fall meeting at City Hall on October 14 at 7:30 p.m. Our Cemmission has dealt with the solid waste. water and noise pollution .problems in Schenectady during the past year, and is cuuently attempting to upgrade neighborhood parks and green space in the City. We need people to .help us with water sampling, environmental impact review, and cooperation with neighborhood and educational organizations. The Union College Y olleyball Club is having its fil'st organ- izational meeting on Monday, October ·11th at ·Delta Phi Fraternity, 7 pm. Any gentleman interested in playing must be at the_ meeting or call Mike Martin at 377•6716. Delta Phi is located ·near Achilles Rink on Le~ox Road. 'Serving Union For Three GeneratiOns' t66Jay St. ·C~n4 .. PE~SONALS Tl) Farbs ·~ If you don't type my thesis for Fre~,. I'll spare the rod - The Great American Novelist. I.oo,.ing .for a teenage playmate? Dad a Horny Hubby? Fridi!y, West Library 12:30 a.m. Meet in Skellar at eleven. Consult ·the symbois of dec~~cy and goodness on your floors fpr further details. C.T. &·s.H. - MOM'S the Word.~ L.W.&A.S. Bruc~ K.,. Happy Birthday! - Barb, Lori, Sue, Julie, Jl\Ii, Audrey, Marla. cONGRATULATIONS to Mark and Nancy Smith, from your f~iencls. \PIIil R«;~senblatt,. you're cute!' Join. his Fan Club today. Call370-7445. MSM -lloveyoli.- H.L. As long as you have a window, 'life is ·exciting. If you do .not, a mailbox may sometimes suffice. ~ Box 261. Karen - come back- Joe. Correction to Lester Weiss' cartoon in Concordiensis, Wed., Sept. 29, 1976. It reads: \r wish ivy would sque!\ze me like that!.\ Sorry for the small print! UNION COLLEGJ:; PHYSICS DEPARTMENT The Physics Department announces a colloquiuJll. series, desjgned for the proverbial ·~intelligent layman,\ on cosmology, exotic stellar ohjects, and the· search for extra-terrestrial )ife. For the Fall ter:m the titles of the topics, the speakers, and the dates are: I. NEUTRON STARS- Monday, Oczober 11 - Dr. Keith Ratcliff, Physics Department, SUNY at Albany. 2. QUASARS - Monday, Oc1ober 25 - Dr. Alan Meltzer, Physics Department, RPI. 3 .. THE BIG BANG THEORY OF HIE ORIGIN OF THE UNIVERSE Monday, November 8 ~ Dr. Ralph Alpher, G.E. R & D. 4. BLACK HOLES Monday, November 22 - Dr. Hans Ohanian Physics Department; U niort College. The Winter Term will include: L COSMOLOG!CAL MODELS - Dr, David Peak, Physics Department U11ion College. 2. HOW ASTRONOMERS GET THEIR DATA - Dr. A.G.D. , .. ,.Philip, Physics Department, Union College;· · 3. LIFE ON MARS? --;. Dr. Les Hull, Chemistry Department, Union College. 4. HOW TO COMMUNICATE WITH EXTRA-TERRESTRIAL INTELLI- GENCES - Dr. Kenneth Schick, Physics Department, Union College. All Colloquia meet at 4:30 p.m. ill the Science and Engineering Center (Room N303) and are preceded by a \coffee- cookie\ social which starts at 4:00 p.m. jn RoomN303. K~ala Inn 167 NOTT TERR. 1 SCHENECTADY 370;.0851 ··· Th~y\re Here! ·that ordered RECORDS &: Sons ~Restaurant·& Caterers, Inc.· Vf\) _ 501 Hattie St., Schenectady, N.Y. 12308 30 PROOF AND READY 10 GO I L ·1•·1 ' . SPECIALS :'\ e y S Tues. night- Draft Be;r 20¢ 9-1; Pitchers $1.50 ( 5181 346·5059 Thul's. Night- Ladies Drinks, 1;2 Price, 9~ 1 HAPPY HOUR DAILY 4-6 PM 20¢ off' liquor 10¢ off beer Lunch Served Every Day Sandwiches Every Night '

a 2:30 ·the and 4is is in It like a the on the 25 lph in ·. 'I'D UK~. Oct. 7 Open meeting fm \C!IIIIpus Voic\\ Newspaper, 7:30 p.m., Sti:a,uss Lounge.·· Women's Field Ho~key - Union vs. Colgate, 4:00 p.m., Alex~nder Fiel(l. Women's Tennis - Union vs. Colgate, 4:00 p.m., llome Courts. lntemational Relations Club Presents ·Mr. Henry 'Hooper, sp~akin.g on \Conflict in Rhodesia,\ 8:00 p.m., SSOl6. Union College Fencing Club will meet at 9 p.m., SS_Ql6. Union College Fencing Club will meet 'at 9:00 p.m., in the· Block U Room of Alumni Gym. Women's Caucus meeting 7:00 p.m., Women•s Center, 2nd floor Carnegie. Irvin Gilman, Paula Ennis - \Music by Women, Composers;' 8:30 p.m., SUNY A Recital Hall, Free. Vangu.ard Albany Symphony concert prevue, noon, Albany Institute of History and Art~ 125 Washington Ave. Hay Fever (Noel Coward) - A play presented by the,JCA players at the Junior College of Albany, 140 New Scotlancl_ Ave., $l.50 and $2:.00, 8:00 p.m. Through. Saturday, PoUti¢al Forum presents Hungluian writer and publicist Ivan Boldizsar, 4:30 p.m., SSI15. Lewis London 'trio, \Eastern K:ing of Western Swing,\ 8:30 p.m. at Mothers Wine Emporium, RPI Union, Troy, Free; Cabate¢ - shows at 9 and 11. Men's Swim Tealtl and .water Polo Club meeting at 7 p.m., Block l) Room, Alumni Gyin. ,.'HI. Uet. u J.V. Football - Union vs. Dean Junior College, 2:30 p.m., Alexander Fieid. History D~partment presents Prof. Mary Beth Norton of Cornell U. speaking on ''Studying Women in Past Time: The .Era of the American Revolution as an Example,\ 2:00 p.m., SS016. FUm Committee Presents \French Connection U,\ 10:00 p.m., SS016. Museum .... College Concert Series Presents Czech N onet, wind and string ensemble from. Czechoslovakia, 8:30· p.m., Memorial Chapel. Students $2.00, aU othet·s $3.50. John Kolisch wHI lecture on ESP, 8:00 p.m. at the Campus Center Theatre, Siena College, Loudonville. George Gritzbach - ragtime and blues, 8:30 p.m. at the Freeze-Dried Coffee House, Campus. Center, Assembly Hall, SUNYA. Also Saturday. · Bernice Reagon and Sweet Honey i·n the Rock~Black Experience in American music, 8:30, Caffe Lena, 47 Phila St., Saratoga Springs. $2.50 cover. Women's Tennis Easterns at New Paltz. SA'I'. Uct.u J.V. ~occer, Union vs. Albany, I 1:00 a.m., Garis Field. Varisy Soccer, Union vs. Albany, ll:OO a.m., Daley Field. Cross Country, Union vs. Trinity at Williams, 12:30 p.m. Varsity FQotball, Union vs. Colby, 1:30 p.m., Alex.ander Field. Women's Tennis Easterns at New Paltz. \ John Sebastian, 8:00 p.m., Memorial ChapeL Film Committee Presents \French Connection II,\ 7, 9; II p.m., SSOl6. Albany Symphony Orchestra with Earl . Wild will p-erform H a r ~is, Schumann, and Tchatkowskv, 8:30 p.m_, Palace Theatre, ~9 Clinton Ave., Albany. Tickets $2.50-$7. Also Sunday, 3 p .. m. in Troy. EXPENSIVE THRILLS. DISCOUNT TICKETS TO THE GRAND PRIX OF THE U. S. AT WATKINS GLEN. ONLY AT TOYOtA DEALERS. . See the greatest rad.ng drivers in the world. , Hear the thundering roar of Formula l's sprinting 200 miles at speeds up to 200 MPH. FeeL Smell: Touch. Taste. Whatever you ' want. Thrills. Thrills. Thrills. The kind only a lot o.f money can buy. But for you, · cheap, cheap, cheap at a Toyota dealer. CHEAP. YOU GOT IT. TOYOTA · While they last, you can buy half-price · ·. discount tickets on reserve grand- stand seats. Savings on advance generol admission. Plus a free garage tour pass. A fantastic savings of up to $13 a head . the entire weekend-October 9th and 10th. So surprise your old lady (or vice versa) and . hurry on down to any participating Toyota dealer m the Northeast now. · And whi.le ,you're there, check but the car you'll see pacing the race. · THE CELICA GT Ll FTBACK-OFFICIAl PACE CAR OF THE GRAND PRIX OF THE UNITED STATES. Not only was the CelicaGT Liftback selected Official Pace Car but all three Celicas-ST, C.T and GT Liftback were named M~tor Trend Magazine's l9761mport Car of the Year. See it before the Race at your Toyota dealer. It's One of the sportiest, most practical cars you'll ever drive. Chamber Music of Brahms - University Singers and Manhattan String Quartet, 8:00 p;m., SUNY A Performing Arts Center. Also Sunday. .sur.. Uet. ! U Women's Tennis Easterns at New Paltz. Film Committee Presents \French Connection II, 7, 9, II p.m., SSOI6. Maynard Ferguson Band - jazz, 8:00 p.m., Colonie Coliseum Summer Theatre, Rt. 9R, off Rt. 9, Latham. $5.00, $6.00 J.ackson Browne, Orleans - 8:~0 p.m., RPI Fieldhouse, Troy. T~ckets $4.50-$6.50 at Ticketron, Fteldhouse, Just .. A-Song. \The Miracle Worker\ i Empire State Youth Theatre, 2, 7 p.m., Empire ·State Plaza Meeting Rm. 6, Albany, $2.oo: $3.00. Through Oct. 16 . .HUN. Volleyball Organizational Meeting, 7:00 p.m., Delta Phi Intellectual Cabaret - Topic: Cheating. With Steve \Teddy Bear\ Levine and professors, 8:30 __ p.m. Women's Field Hockey at Cobleskill, 4<00 p.m. Women's Tennis vs. Russell Sage, 4:00 p.m., Home Courts. 'I'IJES. Det. '2 Game Night - Every Tuesday night at Cabaret. Garry Wills lectures every Tuesday night at 8:00 in SSOI6. WED. Oet. '3 Varsity Soccer vs. Rochester, 3:00 p.m., Daley Field. Women's Field Hockey at Middlebury, 3:15 p.m. Women's Tennis at Middlebury, 3:00 p.m. Women's Swimn;ting at Middlebury, 3:30 p.m. Film Committee Presents a Comedy Festival at 7, 8:45, 10:30 p.m. in SS016. W2UC, Uni()n's Ham Radio Station, meets every Wednesday at 7:30 p.m. in Haskins Lab, adjacent to the freenhouse. For info, call Rich Barnett at 377- 4691. ·Discussion of job hunting strategies, 7:30 p.m., Schenectady · County Public Library. The Union College Film Committee PRESENTS FRI. AT 10 SAT. & SUN. 7,9,ll ss 016 \FRENCH CONNECTION II\ $1. w /tickets, $1.25 w I o* ~-------- WEDNESDAY, 7,9,11 !!COMEDY FESTIVAL!! SS016, $.50 w/tix, $.75 w/o* * Ticket: are available in Student Activities Office

Page 10 CONCOROIENSIS, Wednesday, Oct. 6, 1976 X-C Men Drop Pair By ROCKY DOLAN The Union College Cross- Country team traveled, to Siena College this Tuesday past to face hosting Siena and Oneonta State in a double dual meet. To the surprise of everyone present the Union team dropped both meets, losing 27-28 to Siena, and 26-32 to Oneonta State. The closeness of the score (27- 28 is the closest dual meet possible) was reflected in the individual standings. Uniorfs scoring runners placed lst, 2nd, lOth, 15th, and 17th and were beaten as a group by the ability of Oneonta State and Siena to pl!Jce all their scoring runners between Union's second and fourth' runners. Union's Stan Wiskoski and Kevin .Scheuer placed 1-2 to garner top individual honors for the day. Wiskoski led off the race with a 2: 10 first half-mile (including one snort wrong turn), and was never headed after that - coasting in at 26:14. Scheuer, however, was pressed every step of the way by the runners from Siena and Oneonta. Scheuer is a sophomore with an impressive background in track, and utilized his half-mile ability well at the end of his c<>urageous race. Scheuer pulled into second place for good only in the last one hundred yards, sprinting uphill ahead of Siena's John King by 3 seconds in 26:32. Kevin's average of 5: 18 per mile was his finest effort in his 2 years at Union. Sophomore Pete Pettit was Union's third scorer, finishing 10th overall. In the team's time trials over the past few weeks, Pettit has run right with Scheuer, and during practices the two virtually match steps. In the Siena race ~eter was hampered by a sore leg, and was disappointed with his finish. Now recovered, Pete looks .forwar.d to placing further up in the later meets. Junior Bob Moffatt and Sophomore Marty Dolan were Union's fourd1 and fifth scorers, placing 15th ami 17th overalL Moffatt ran a very determined race - going out strong with Wiskoski and- Scheuer and hanging on to blast off an Oneonta runner, two Siena runners and the Doctor himself over the last quarter mile. Dolan went out somewhat slower than Moffatt but made up ground during the race. Doc as well pulled away from the 2 Siena runners but was unable to keep pace with Meffatt and the unfortunate Oneonta State runner who was with him. Moffatt finished iii 27:52 and ·Dolan in 28:02; both times (as with Pettit's) approximately equal to their best efforts on Union's course. Junior Tom Lawson and Freshman Pete Vielkind were the 6th and \7th runners across for Union. Lawson and Vielkind ran strongly in the race; as a group with Dolan they made up a good deal of ground after a poor start. Working over numerous Siena and Oneonta State runners through Siena's treacherous wooded trails they too finished close to their approximate home course best times. Senior Tom Bougouise and Freshman walk-on Howie Hersey also ran well for Union. Bougouise finished near Vielkind and Hersey passed with flying , colors his first varsity test of 5 miles. A stiff challenge awaits the Garnet harriers Wednesday, Oct. 6 at Hamilton College. Hamilton has beaten Union in cross-country consistently over the past few yeats, including a close decision at home last faiL Hamilton has 5 of their varsity returning from that meet, and o'ne of them, senior Jon Schmeyer, earned All- American cross-country honors last falL Schmeyer, however, may be pressed closer than he anticipated by Union's Wiskoski. Union held a time trial last Saturday in which Stan ran 25:24, for an average of 5:05 per mile - the fastest average on any course here_ by any runner, including Schmeyer and Union's great Steve Jones. Also, Hamilton's runners tend to run the early parts of a Dolinsky's hustle earns him defensive merit. . race very fast. Stan's performance against Siena and in the time trial (4:45 mile, 9;40 2 mile for a 5 mile race) ind.icates that he could be one to surprise Schmeyer. Coach Bick . expects a great individual duel between Wiskoski . and Schmeyer to take place. With Scheuer in top form and Pettit returning to prominence, he gives the Union men a real chance to start a win streak and settle a score for their past losses against Hamilton on Wednesday. Gridders of the Week Against Bates, Andy Terranova was unquestionably the offensive standout as he passed for over 200 yards. This is a feat which had not been accomplished by a Union quarterback in some time. Andy is a sophomore from Buffalo, NY and should be appearing in this section many more times in the future. On defense, senior cattain Tom Hood received the honor for his interception and tidy return which almost brqught Union to life. Tom hails froth Cliuemont, NH, similar honor many times in the past. Against W.P.I., freshman Rich Romer was the offensive standout as he rushed for 94 yards in 17 carries. He also scored Union's only rushing touchdown. Rich is from Mr. Kisco, NY, and has a promising future at Union. On defense, the hanor goes· to sophomore Greg Bolinsky. He created problems for W.P.I. with his size and played a very effective game controlling the line pf scrimmage. Greg is from nearby ~ ~ ·, ;, :·; 1lP9 .~ uq4;P.Pbfedly;; rles.erveu a Mechanicville, NY.\ •· · Needless to say, the UColl runners were bitterly disappointed by the losses. The excellent finishes of Wiskoski and Scheuer offered little solace to them as a group. Coach Ted Bick in his fifth season, offered no excuses, but noted that Union's late start afforded the opposing teams as much as 3 additional • Weeks of conditioning. This: he felt~ could have made the difference. Bick added thl\t the outcome would be different against Siena and Oneonta in the upcoming Capital District Championships. Union's runners eagerly await that rematch as well. Stan Wiskowski, upper left, x- c man of the week, and smiling Parker Antin, lower left, is hooter of the week. Booter· of the Week Romer's durability wins him honor. Senior · Parker Antin, Tri- · Captain of the Varsity Soccer team, has been chosen as Player of the Week. 'Park' who originates frotn Darien, CT was the leadit1g scorer in the opening game with Williams. The match was won by the squad from Williamstown by the score of 3-2. However, the diminutive but aggressive forward was credited with both Union goals. Parker has been in the shadows of All- American Craig Jeffries and All- New York State John Oenio the past 3 years, but with his opening game success has already established his position in the all time top ten scorers of Union Varsity Soccer. Parker is a member of the Delta Phi Fraternity and a Bio-Chemistry major. Have a good season, Parker •. · Wiskowskl Runner of Week Stan Wiskoski, a senior English major from Bennington, VT, is this week's Cross-Country Runner of the Week. In a double dual meet Stan ran a fast pace to spread-eagle thefield and help his teammates nearly ·defeat Siena and Oneonta State. His 26.14 was good for first · place, ·and it foHowed a course record 25.24 rim here only four days before~ THE SCH'DY SHORIN RYU KARATE CLUB located 1141 Catalyn St. Accepting applications, fot information, 372- 6848. Holding classes for children.' Also classes in self-defense for women. ·FERRO'S, PHARMA,CY closest to cam2us -sTUDENT DISCOUNT' mNoast. 3'77-Htl 3oCM3IJ

the 17 h is a to He of ' g CONCOR.DIENSIS, Wednesday; Oci. 6, 1976 Page 11 Field Hockey WPI Passing Airs Out Dutehmen By LANCE BOBROW Season Off and Ru.nning Womens · Fie'ld Hockey season has started once again at Union College ~ this year by dropping their opener last Wednesday to Kirkland CoUe_ge by .a score of 3- 1. Playing C:Jn an unfamiliar and very soggy field, along with a team made up of people Who had never even practised together as a team ·before, the women were at a clear disadvantage. Union's lone goal came late in the second half when veteran Center Halfback Perky Francis scored her first career goal, shedding some light on an otherwise poor game ~ clearly not indicative of the good hockey the women normally play. ·following remark: n;:taliating though. The Dutchmen Union's ~home opener was \1 don't know wha.t it is about a drove 75 yards in I 0 plays with \'spoile.a fou the improved hall -in flight but it just the .final 4 yards coming on a Dutchmen by the devastating air mesmerizes .our kids. They dash up the middle by freshman attack of Wor~ester Polytechnic freeze.\ h a 1 fb a c k Rich Romer. Institute by a final score of39\2l. The scoring opened in the Quarterback Andy Terranova was However,· Union !>howed . its second quarter with a 56 yard largely instrumental in this drive :improvement over last year by drive by W.P.I. which concluded with his passing just as he was last battling back fro.ni a deficit and with a 20 yard TD toss from Art week. never really gbJillg up. Hughes to Marty Paglione. The On the ensuing kickoff, UQion's pass . defense was next time the W.P.I. engineers W.,P.I.'s Paul Fearnside fumbled constantly jU.11gled hy .Union got th~ir hands on the ball,. they on the Union 19. The fumble was coach Tom Ca.hillwho used se:ven drove 75 yards with Hughes again recovered by Ron Plum. With a players to rnan 3 defensive hitting Paglione for 12 yards and fired-up crowd screaming in t~e second·ary pesitions during the the score to give W.P.I a 14-0 background, Terranova hit big ~ontest. Af1erwards Cahill lead. . tight end Frank · Hoster for described his secondary with the Union did not waste much time another touchdown. The extra point was added by Hamble~ to tie up the score 14-14 at hal~ tlme. W.P.I. took the second half kickoff and marched 64 yards to pull ahead ll-14. This time, Hughes hit Paglione again for 35 yards. The Union secondary· was caught napping on this play after Hughes was scrambling around for about lO seconds. Hughes himself then ran 24 yards for the touchdown. Later, W.P.l. recovered a Terranova fumble at the Dutchmen 19. Union's defense seemed to rise to the occasion forcing the Engineers to a 4th and 15 situation at the Union 24. However, Pappas hit Paglione for 24 yards and a TD. Paglione was to catch 7 passes for 146 yards and three TD's that· day. lhis did not take the starch out of Union though. The Dutchmen drove 73 yards as Doug NapadaQo showed some superior running in this series breahng many open field tackles. Terranova hit Bob Mathias with a 25 yard scoring toss to narrow the gap to 27-21 with 6:56 left in the game. Returping home to Daley Field on Thursday, the women showed their dominance in the sport, as they atmihilat~d the Turkeys from RPI, by the amazing score of 7-l. The team was back together again - not a person on the field could complain as the scoring was easily distributed along the forward line. Junior Muffy Hart, last year's high. scorer, easily the team's fastest runner, netted one, and Freshman whiz Debbie Poletto, at the Right Inner position, added the final. two . .The defense was also shining that game, newcomer . Judy Drisct>'fl ··''perfo'flnitig exceedingly well in' the Left Halfback position · Perky Francis and Martha Dolan filling in the other two ha'ltback slots~ Fullbacks were Ann Markowitz and Barb Kaul, and the first-year _ Varsity Goalie Debbie Schwartz showed remarkable dexterity in the cage. .;.tnity Terran~-valetsloose with a spiral v. W.P.I.last Saturday at Alexander Field. W.P.l. recovered the onside kickoff attempt by Union and Pappas went right to work hitting halfback Tim Scavone for 39 yards and then split end Mike Walker for 18 yards and a touchdown. The Engineers added a meaningless touchdown With 25 seconds left on a 25 yard toss to Richard McCarthy. This maneuver seemed like a George Allen move to this observer. Union's bright spot once again was its offensive backfield of Terranova, a,nd freshmen Doug Napadano and Rich Romer. Romer rushed for 94 yards in 17 ·EJ~S ·Nip·· Union . • · v · :! • • • · , - C!J:Fries while Terranova 1Pllss'ed Bo.oters, fall to Arch-Rival for I J I yards. Referring to Terranova, Cahill commented, \He's a tough kid. I've seen him A game on Monday against the more experienced team from Saratoga did not fare so well for the Garnets. The game remained close in the first half - the score at half-time was 3-2 in fa:vor of the Skiddies. Union's goals came once more from M'uffy Hart and Debbie Poletto. During .the second half, the Indian summer heat took its tolls on Union. Tired and hot, the entire Garnet team, both offense and defense, were unable to contain the Skiddies as they tallied up another 3 goals, the final score being Skidmore ~ 6; Union - 2. ~pecial m~ntion must be given to Goalie Judy Haddad, who in her ~irst full Varsity game, did a fantastic job of stopping over 25 shots on goal. By SCOTT HEILBRUN on a. sophomore goalie Mark The tension of last week's game Rekuki and hit a hard. bending was apparent to any observer that shot that passed over the head ef had watched the: practices prior to the defender of the net. This ' the match. Williams' soccer team occurred with 28.41 left In the had a reputation for tough first half. An inexperienced team . physical play tltat sometimes might be expected to give up once boardered on unsportsmanlike it fell behind. But this was not the conduct. Combi:ni11g with thi11 was case. The Garnet eleven the fact tll.at the club from regrouped. and once again began Williamstown, Mass. was pressuring the Williams' defense, comprised entirely of Upper- Finally, with 20.01left in the first classmen. No one questioned that half, a baH was centered in front this squad would challe~ge of the Williams' goal where senior Union's nine game winning streak Tri-Captain Parker Antin tipped that extended from last y~;ar's the ball into the net. The championship team. ihe remainder of the first half was unknown element -was the scoreless even though the Dutchmen themselves. Just how momentum of the opposition's poised 'could a .groU'p of athletes attack increased. The outstanding that included on:ly tWo seniors be? defe~;~sive. play of Jim Manning, Could they exhibit the stamina Peter Martini, and Mike Smith and poise that is necessary. for prevented any possibility of quality soccer'! These questions Williams breaking the deadlock. and others were answered ~s As the halt endea tne score stood Yesterday afternoon the girls Union displayed greater skills and at l to l, \vith Union holding the faced Castleton State, Vermont, conditioning than their edge on shots eight to five, and once more on their own home opposition, regardless of the final Williams with fouls at nine to turf. Here the girls showed their score. three. marked improvement over last The sky was .clear and a light The beginning of the second year, and even though they lost breez:e could be felt as the Whistle half started much in the same by a score of 3-0, it was to the starting the game was sounded by manner as the first. The referees same team to which they had lost the officia-ls. The Dutchmen took tried to control the game by last year by the score of.ll-0. The immediate control and through calling fouls when nearly any Union College \B-Team a new skilled passing, set up several fine contact occurred. The Dutchmen addition to this year's squad, also scoring opportunities. Five times kept up good offensive pressure, lost to Castleton by a score of 2-0. the Union team took unanswered but once again Williams received This year's teams , both A. and B, shots, yet they failed to leave the a very fortunate break. A hard are being coached by Mrs. Diana ball in the oppr-~ition's goal. shot was' screened from the sight Kerr, her second year as Field Repeatedly, as the Schenectady of Mark Rekuki when Jim Hockey Coach at Union. :iihe club set up the ball, they found Manning accidently. 1 deflected it herself is a fantastic hockey themselves fouled. The referees with his chest. The ball was then player, imported to us via attempted to control the game, kicked in by lineman Hank England, and has been able to do but . missed rnany obvious calls Osborn. The goal was scored with remarkable things with the team's much to the ohagvin of Coach 28.32 left in the second half. It players in regard to ability, ·Magee. fhe stalemate was broken was what followed that truly technique, and skill. Come see for on a clearing pa~s by a Williams' proved heartbreaking for the yourself tomorrow as the women defender that lllrned· into a fast Garnet cause. Sophmore John will play Colgate at 4 p.m. on bte.ak. Steve Smith, one of the. Kovac was calle~ for a trip, there D~ley. Field, ' opposition's inid f!et<lers, broke in then ensued -some confusion and have better days, and he will get better. He's only a sophomore and most of the people he'$ working with are freshmen or the referee pulled out a red card. sophomores. . They can only This signals an immediate ejection improve.\ from the game. A second Looking ahead to Colby on crippling blow occurred when it Saturday, the main task will be to appeared as though the Williams pa togethe·r the defensive coach. had sent a player to foul s · · ary which~.! yielded 296 the Union goalie. In the scuffle . ya ; and 5 touchdowns to another goal was scored. The W.P.'l ''I'm sure the word's out referees ejected the Williams now on our pass defense.\ Cahill player· hut allowed . the goal to concluded. ..We've got to do count. Even at this point Coach something about it.\ Come on out Magee's booters were still hungry and see the sure to be improved for Victory. The William's tally Garnet gridders. came with 22.40 left in the second half and was credited to Bill Kister. Almost immediately the Union team brought the ball downfield. After several golden chances Parker Antin oil a marvelous assist from George Garivaltis rifled the ball into the lower right hand corner. There remained only 15.39 left in the game after Union closed the sr,pre to 3 to 2. Once more, however, the Garnet hooters moved the ball effectively, and in the closing moment Parker took an excellent pass only to have the shot miss the top post by inches. With the final gun Williams had indeed proved victorious. Interestingly, they were outshot overa,U fo.r the entire game 21 to It, but they managed to have more fouls with 18 to 7 The loss to Williams was a shame since the Union Varsity Soccet . teamed played as a W.P.I. 0 14 13 12 39 Union 0 14 0 ·scoring 7 11 W.P.l. Paglione 20 pass from Hughes (Paglione kick) W.P.I. Paglione 12 pass from Hughes (Paglione kick) Union Romer 4 run (Hamblet kick) Union Hoster 6 pass from Terranova (Hamblet kick) W.P.I. Hughes 24 run (Paglione kick) W.P.I. Paglione 24 pass from Pappas (kick failed) Union Mathias 25 pass from Terranova {Hamblet kick) W.P.l. Walker 18 pass from Pappas (kick failed) W.P.l. McCarthy 25 pass from Pappas (kick failed) cohesive and poised unit. r---------------. Particularly pleasing was the play Stastics W.P.I. Union ~:~f freshmen Jim Stoothoff who First Downs 20 19 exhibited confidence in the Rushing Yardage 151 168 difficult outside halfback Passing Yardage 296 lll position. lhe next match is at TQtal Yardage 447 279 Hamilton on Wednesday, Oct. 6 PasSies 12-22-1 8-26-2 and a battle toughened Garn~t Return Yardage 95 157 squad will be seeking to start Punts 5-34 6·35 another substantial winning Fumbles Lost 2 1 streak. Yards Penalized 55 7

:• Page 12 Concordy Sports Con't Rugby Loss By DEB KAUFMAN The Union College Rugby team experienced ·its first loss of the season last Sunday, when Kingston handed the Garnet a 14- 0 loss. Even though the score appears to have gone against Union, both teams agreed that the score was not representative 0f the game. The only times Kingston scored were on long breakaway runs when Union was driving in for a score itself. Although fielding a much smaller team than Kingston, the experienced Union 15 dominated most of the game by playing one of its smartest Rugby games ever. Playing one of his finest games, Jim \Crazy Legs\ Stants pwved to be the driving force in the first half. The crafty veteran initiated great defensive plays that the scrummers Peter Felker, Big Rock Nudeau, John Brown and John Andrews joined in on. Captain Oave Dimarco and Vince Verdile were the main push in the serum-downs that surprisingly Union held their own in against the larger Kingston team. The combination of hooker Mike Chack and serum-half Chris Taylor connected in the serums to get the ball out to the Union speedsters in the line. Chip Fenn led the line again with his amazing runs that nearly resu'lted in a score early in the game, only to be dragged down from behind. Sharp and timely passing between Bruce \Weasel\ Pullman and Tom Boyle consistently got the'\ ball out to outside men Wayne Rik-er and Dave Walsh. Backing up the entire Union team was Harvey Friedman, who has .finally come into his own at the fullback position. Harvey Was a key man in keeping Kingston pinned down in their own territory. This Saturday, Union will be at home on Library Field playing local rival Siena· College. The match will start at 1:30. It is Union's last home game of the season and the team would appreciate a large turnout of its loyal fans. WARREN CROW UNION WRESTLING COACH SCHENECTADY Warren Crow, an All-American wrestler at Cornell and Albany State University, has been appointed head wrestling coach at Union College. The appointment was announced yesterday by Union Athletic Director Thomas Kershner. Crow, a resident of Schenectady, also holds NCAA championship and Most Valuable Player awards from his collegiate mat career. In announcing the appointment, Dr. Kershner noted, \The acquisition of Warren Crow to the Umon College coaching staff will not only be a boon to the wrestlers at Union, but it's also an indication that the college intends to provide the best leadership and instruction available across the broad scvpe of intercollegiate athletics. Warren Crow was an outstanding wrestler, and he'll make an outstanding coach.\ Wrestling at Cornell, Crow was named to the Coaches Mid- Season First T earn All America and Cornell's MVP in 1964. He won NCAA CoUege Division Championships in 1966 and '67 at Albany State, was named to the NCAA University Division All American Team; and twice to the NCAA College Division All America squad. CONCORDlENSIS, Wednestl\ay Oct. 6,.1976 \ SELECTION OF J/;zg rStfeSt t6wt~iOwJL ScAt11ec~ c~pex -rues .1 !hurS. ~/-i I Cj !J. trl. . ... \ ~ (

l male to Let the was to to to get a the Did or the field bility of bing bears see its urs, NG .. s i. I ~; l I ~ \ . , I Students Recover From Auto Accident TRAGIC CAR ACCIDENT FRIDAY NIGHT By THE EO,ITOR Last Friday on October 8, 1976 tHree Union College students were in a car accident on their way to Russell Sage College in Latham. The three students were Mr. Bill Collins, a senior here at Union and a computer science major. Mr. Colli11s suffered a broken wrist and bruises to the chest and other parts of the body; he also couldn't remember anything that happened before or after the accident which could be attributed to a slight concussion. He is now recoupe rating after a minor operation on his wrist at Ellis Hospital. Visitors arc asked to come sometime between the hours of l p.m. and 8 p.m. The second student was Ms. Donna Hawkins a sophomore at Union and a psychology major. Ms. Hawkins suffered a broken leg and she too had to have minor surgery performed on Saturday morning. She also had to have stitches for her head. When she was found Friday after the accident, her body had been thrown 30-35 feet from the car and her body was partly on the ground and the concrete. She obviously was thrown with great impact from the car. She is now at Ellis Hospital and may not receive VISitors until further notice, because she is in intensive care. The third student was Mr. YES I CAN One of America's Greatest Enter- tainers Recalls the Aftermath of a 1954 Automobile Accident SAMMY DAVIS, JR. Why do they always say hospital sheets are cool and crisp? They were hot and sticky. And I didn't have to ask \'Where am I?\ l sen~ed it or smelled it or remembered it. The room was very dark, l turned my head from one side to the other bflt there wasn't a crack of light ~ a bulb, the moon -- nothing! It was too dark just to be night. I must have been near an Gpen window because I felt a gust of air pass over me, hot and thick like it never is at night. I heard cars moving outside. Slowly. A lot of them. I could hear a radio soap opera playing. people talking in a daytime tone and walking carelessly down the corridor. There definitely was daylight around me. I just couldn't see it. I grabbed for my legs but my arms wouldn't move. My hands could feel iron bars on both sides of me and if I had hands then I had to have arms. I kicked my legs and heard them swishing against the bedsheets. I banged my feet together so hard that they hurt. Thank God I had feet. There was terrible pressure around my head. I stretched my neck towards my hands to feel what was wrong. \Don't touch your bandages, . Mr. Davis. Everything is all right.\ It was a woman's voice. I fell back against the pillow. Oh, God, I can't see, I can't move, and everything-is-all-right-Mr. Davis, \Are you a nurse? Am I blind?\ \Don't worry. Everything's going to be fine.\ \But I can't see! Am I blind?\ \You have band ages over your eyes. You were in a bad automobile accident.\ \PLEASE! I know that. Just tell me yes or no. AM I BLIND?\ \No. You're not blind.\ Naturally she'd say that. They ·wouldn't let a nurse break it to me. Not like this, not the second I wake up. \If you promise not to pull at your bandages I can take the straps off your arms now.\ \Thank you.\ I felt my legs. They were okay. There was a small bandage on the palm of my right hand. I put my hands to my face, slowly, so she wouldn't think I was pulling at the bandages. I started touching them at the top of my head but I couldn't feel my skin until I got to my mouth. I was wrapped up like a mummy. I turned my head toward the sound of footsteps coming into the room. \Good morning, Mr. Davis. I'm Doctor Hull. How are you feeling?\ I nodded, waiting. He wasn't saying anything and I was suddenly afraid he would. \Look doc, I know this sounds like a B- movie, but, where am IT' \This is the Community Hospital at San Bernardino. You were operated on last ni~ht.\ \You operated on me'!\' \Yes.\ \Doctor please -- will I be able to dance? Am 1... blind?\ \You're not blind. You're going to see. You'll be able to dance and sing and do everything you ever did. But I removed your left eye.\ I distinctly heard the words, but the tone - it was like \Shall we have lunch?\ Nobody could be so casual as to say, \Ho hum, I took out your eye.\ \Mr. Davis, losing an eye isn't as tragic as it seems when you first hear it.\ Easton, usuaHy called \Easy.\ He suffered minor bumps and bruises and was very sore. Mr. Easton was released from the hospital on Saturday in the morning. But he ret.1,1med to the hospital Monday because of bad chest pains and it was discovered that he had a cracked rib. But they patched him up, and he may be seen at Hickok House where he's recuperating. This accident could have had more fatal consequences, but I know that God was watching over them. So continue to pray for them, and lets all pray that they have a speedy recovery and will soon be able to join the Union Campus student body again. * * * * He really had said it. \Try not to touch the bandages.\ I dropped my hands. I felt like an idiot. Here a man tells me he took out my eye and I'm checking to see if he's kidding. \You're handling it very bravely.\ \Doc you'd better tell me some more about it 'cause I'm about to be the scaredest brave man you ever saw.\ \We'll discuss it in detail when you're rested, but for the moment what it amounts to is that you struck your left eye against the pointed cone in the center of your steering wheel. When you were brought here yesterday morning ... \ Yesterday? If a whole night went by, then what happened in Vegas? Who did the show? \ ... the doctors on duty felt that although the eye was severely damaged there was still a possibility of saving it, so they called me because I specialize in this sort of operation. When I examined you I agreed that it might be saved. However, from the amount of damage done, the best you'd ever have had in that eye would be ten per cent vision. Although that would seem to justify saving it, we've learned that the damaged eye pulls, or leans, so heavily on the good one that eventually the healthy eye is weakened and the patient suffers what we call 'sympathetic blindness.' As a result, in a few years you might have had almost no sight at all and for that reason I recommended the removal...\ The bed was turning and I grabbed for the bars... I don't October 12, 1976 The Prayer of the Day Dear Lord God, you have called us to work in your vineyard and want no one to stand idle in the marketplace. Set us our tasks in the work of your Kingdom, and help us to know the reward of our labors; through your Son, Jesus Christ our ·Lord. Amen. have to hold on, I can't fall ott. The bed isn't really moving. 1 took deep breaths, trying to fight the nausea. \With one perfectly healthy eye you'll have excellent vision. As for appearance, you'll have an artificiai eye and eventually no one but you will know the difference.\ \A glass eye?\ \We don't use glass any more. They're made of plastic. In any event you'll be wearing a patch for a while.\ \Aha. Floyd Gibbons, eh?\ His hand was on my arm. \That's the spirit. I know it's a tremendous shock to find that you have only one eye, but the eye is lost and that cannot be changed. You can take the attitude that everything else is lost, too and it will be. or you can take the attitude that you still have one perfect eye. You can see. You have both legs and both arms. You have a relatively small adjustment to make before resuming a completely normal life. Try to not think of what you've lost but of how much you still have,\ Suddenly I was exhausted. I feit myself falling asleep as he spoke.

·.• I , ....... male to Let the Students Recover From Auto Accident · TRAGIC CAR ACCIDENT FRIDAY NIGHT ' By THE E'OITOR Last Frid~y on Octob~;r 8, 1976 three Union College studep.ts were in a car accident on their way to Russell Sage College in Latham. The three students were Mr. Dill Collins, a senior here at U nilm and a computer science major. Mr. Collins suffered a broken wrist and bruises to the chest and other parts of the body; he also couldn't remember anything that hap.pened .before or after the accident which could be attribute(! to a slight concussion. He is now recouperating a~ter a minor operation on his wrist at E!Jis Hospital. Visitors are asked to come sometime between the ·hours of l p.m. and 8 p.m. rhe se«;ond student was 1\t:s. Donna Hawkins a sophomo.te at Union and a psychology major.. Ms. Hawkins suff~;:\red a broken leg and she too had to have min~r surgery performed on Saturday morning. She .also had to have stitches for her head .. When s.he was found Friday after .tlte accident, her body had been thrown 30-35 feet from the car and her body was partly on Ute ground and the concrete. S}Je ·obviously was thrown with Ereat impact from the car. She is now at Ellis Hospital and may n.ot receive v,isitors until furtlt.er not,ice, because she ~ in intensive care. .. The third student was 1\t.r. YES· I c-AN One of America's Greatest Enter- tainers Recalls the Aftermath of a 1954 Automobile· Accident SAMMY DAVIS, JR. Why do they always say hospital sheets are cool and crisp? They were hot and sticky. And I didn't have to ask \Where am I?\ I sensed it or smelled, it or remembered it. The room was very dark, I turned my head from one side to the other bflt there wasn't a crack of light ~ a bulb, the tnoon ~ nothing! It was too dark Just to be night. I must have been near an open window because I felt a gust of air pass over me, hot and thick like it never is at night. I heard cars moving outside. Slowly. A lot of them. [ could hear a radio saap opera playing, people talking in a daytime tone and walking carelessly down the corridor. There definitely was daylight around me. I just couldn't see it. I grabbed for my legs but my arms wouldn't move. My hands could feel iron bars on both sides of me and if I had hands then l had to have anus. I kicked my legs and heard them swishing against the bedsheets. I banged my feet together so hard that they hurt. Thank God I had feet. There was terrible pressure around my head. I stretched my neck towards my hands to feel what was wrong. · \Don't touch your bandages, . Mr. Davis. Eve_rything i:s all right.\ It was a woman's· voice. I fell back against the pillow. Oh, God, I can~t see, I can't move, and everything-is-all-right-Mr. Davis, \Are you a nurse? Am 1 blind?\ \Don't worry. Everything's going to be fine.\ \But 1 can't see! Am I blind?\ \You have bandages over your eyes. Y oti were in a bad · autom9~ile accident.\ \PLEAS.E! I know that. Just tell me yes or no. AM I BLIND?:' \No. You're not blind.\ Naturally she'd say that. They ·wouldn't let a nurse break it t~ me. Not like this, not the second I wake up. . \If you promise not to pull at your bandages l can take the straps off your arms now.\ \Thank you.\ I felt my legs. They were okay. There was a small bandage on the palm of my right hand. I put my hands to my face, slowly, so she wouldn't think I Was pulling at the bandages. I ·started touching them at the tojl of my head but I couldn't feel my skin until I got to my mouth. I was wrapped up lik!! a mummy. 1 turned my head toward th.e sound of footsteps coming into the room. \Good morning, Mr. ;Davis. I'm Doctor Hull. How are you f~eling?\ I nodded, waiting. He wasn't saying anything and I was suddenly afraid he would. \Look doc, I know this sounds like a B· movie, but, where am I?\ \This is the Community ·Hospital at San Bernardino. You were operated .on last night.'' \You operated on me?\ \Yes.\ \Dot:tor please - will l be able to dance? Am 1... blind?~' ''You're not blind. You're going to see. You'll be able to dance and sing and do everything you ever did. But I removed your left eye.~· I ~distinctly heard the words, but the tone ~ it was like \ShaH we have lunch?\ Nobody could be so casual as to say, \Ho hum, 1 took out your eye.\ \Mr. Davis, losing an eye isn't as tragic as it seems when y<Ju first hear it.'' Easton, usually called \Easy.\ He suffered minor bumps and bruises and was very sore. Mr. Easton was released from the hospital on Saturday in the morning.· But he ret:p.rned to the hospital Monday because of bad chest pains and it was discovered that he had a cracked rib. But they patched him up, and he may be seen at Hickok House wher~ Jle's recuperating. This accident could have had more fatal consequences, but I know that God was watching over them. So continue to pray for them, and lets all pray that they have a speedy recovery and will soon be able to join the Union Campus student body again. * * * * He really had said it. ''Try not 'to touch the bandages.\ I dropped my hands. I felt like an idiot. Here a man tells me he took out my eye and I'm checking to see if he's kidding. \You're handling it very bravely.\ \Doc you'd. better tell me some more about it 'cause I'm about to be the' scaredest brave man you ever saw.'' \We'll discuss it in detail When you're rested, but for the moment what it amounts to is that you struck your left eye against the pointed cone in the center of your steering wheel. When you were brought here yesterday morning ... \ Yesterday? If a whole night went by, then what happened in Vegas? Who did the show? \ ... the doctors on duty felt that although the eye was severely damaged there was still a possibility of saving it, so they called me because I specialize in this sort of operation. When l examined you I agreed that it might be saved. However, from the amount of da_mage done, the best you'd ever have had in that eye would be ten pet cent vision. Although that would seem to justify saving it, we've learned that the damaged eye pulls, or leans, so heavily oil the good one that eventually the healthy eye is weakened and the patient ,suf{ers what we call 'sympathetic blindness.' As a result, in a few years you might have had almost no sight at all and fot that reason I recommended the removal...\ The bed was turning and I grabbed for the bars... I don't October 12, 197 6 The Prayer of the Day Dear Lord God, you have called us to work in :your vineyard and want no one to stand idle in the marketplace. Set us our tasks in the work of your Kingdom, and help us to know the reward· of our labors; thi'OIIgh :your Son, Jesus Christ our Lord. Amen. have to hold on, 1 can•t fall off. The bed isn't really moving. I took deep breaths, trying to fight the nausea. \With one perfectly healthy eye you'll have excellent vision. As for apP.earance, you'll have an artificial eye and eventually no one but you will know the difference.\ · \A glass eyer' \We don't use glass any more. They're made of plastic. In any event you'll be wearing a patch for a while.\ \Aha. Floyd Gibbons, eh?\ His hand was on my arm. \That's the spirit. I know it's a tremendous shock to· find. that you have only one eye, but the eye is lost and that cannot be changed. You can take the attitude that everything else is , lost, too - and it will be, or you can take the attitude that you still have one perfect eye. You can see. You have both legs and both arms. You have a relatively small adjustment to make before resuming a completely normal life. Try to not think of what you\ve lost but of how mtich you still have.,\ Suddenly I was exluusted. I felt myself falling asleep as he spoke.

Page 2 PERSPECTIVE , October U, 1976 Up to Date Happenings • Mr. Kiosei Essandah, a former Union student, is presently the Assistant Director of the A.O.P. (Academic Opportunity Program) at Union. Mr. Essendah is a native from West Africa and he has made his decision to come to the United States because of what this country had to offer to an individual from a foreign country. .Compared to other countries, such as Ghana in West Africa, the U.S. can assist a person to obtain a good education replies Mr. Essandah. Mr. Essandah states that he has attended several other high schools in Geneva, Switzerland. Mr. Essandah finished high school in England, but he said that he attended a private high school in Ghana which is old in tradition, but is known for. its philosophical background. This school, in its respectable name is MFAMTSI Pim in Ghana. \Why did you pick Union College, Mr. Essandah?\ \Union College is a strong institution and it can offer you a very strong educational back- _ground. I like the location of 93 Livingston Ave. Albany, New York September 20 The NAACP was recently the vtcttm of a distorted judicial system in Mississippi in that a $1,250,000 judgment was rendered against it as the aftermath of a buying boycott which occurred JO years ago. This outrageous decision will, of course, be appealed. But by another strange Mississippi law, a sum equal to 125% of the judgment must be posted with the court if the case is appealed. Thus, the NAACP must deposit over $1 ~million with a court as a preliminary step in having the decision reversed. The deadline is the end of September and the Albany Branch of NAACP is joining the other 1500 branches in a crash program to raise this money. The local goal is to raise at least $2,000 in the next lO days. The money can be in the form of a special contribution or in the form of memberships in the organization. The important thing is that money must he raised quickly. Any sum, large or small, will help. We urge all people concerned with justice and equity to respond to this clear challenge to the very life of the nation's New Assistant Director of the A.O.P. Program By D. Wilson Union College because it is not too far from New York City and the isolation is good to help people, especially the students, to become more disciplined to their school work. Also, the location of Union College isn't too far in the boondocks, so a person can reach their destination in a matter of hours. Moreover, the Economics Department here at Union is an excellent department, because Union is a technical institution geared to give a very solid background academically.\ · prepared to assist the student as much as pussible so that the student improves one way or another, The· students here at Union can be of gr<~at help to' the A.O.P. Program by becoming tutors. Also, the faculty membl!rs could help make the A.O.P. Program stand out more with any assistf!nce which faculty members ca!!_ o_ffer.\ . · \Mr. Essandah, is it important for a person attending · Union College to understan9 what the A.O.P. Program is all about?\ \Mr. · Essandah, what's your opinion on the A.O.P. student?\ \I would rather see what others. can do to help the A.O.P. Program, instead of under- standing what the A.O.P. Program is aU about. You can take remedial work, for example, which is very important, and this remedial work with the help, of tutors can be and is a great assistance for the A.O.P. student to be able to deal with his or her courses more · willingly and prepared. Also I would like to see more incorporated courses, such as a pre-Calculus course, an English. or critical reading and writing course. These courses will \The most important influence the A.O.P. Program has on the A.O.P. student is motivation. The · reason being because most A.O.P. students come from high schools which are poor financially and lacking in their social backgrounds.\ \Is the A.O.P. Program improving?\ \Yes! The program is im,proving each year, such as the staff and the students improve each year in the student body. Each year the program has NAACP oldest, largest, and most successful civil rights organization. Money should be sent to: Albany NAACP 93 Livingston Ave. Albany, N.Y. 12207 or Fred Jack Box 2041 U.C. 370-6649 If the decision is not appealed, the NAACP Treasury will be raided by a judge in the amount of $1 ~ million. If the appeal is made, the organization must deposit $1 ~ million with the court. Thus, in either case, a very large sum of money must be raised. If the· effort fails, the organization will become bankrupt and may well be put out of business. What murders, lynchings, bombings, threats, false propaganda, and extreme vilification of the organization and its leaders could not accomplish over the past 65 years may now be accomplished by a lone Mississippi judge: the abolition of the NAACP. .,.,. . registrars come into the county m 1966 to increase the number of registered voters since prior to that time local whites had only allowed seven to register. Violence was directed at the leadership of the registration drive and early that year Vernon Dehmer, former local NAACP president, was killed in a firebombing. Black'S organized a buying boycott to pressure the community into granting first class citizenship to the black population. The boycott was intensified in 1969 when another black was killed and police fired into the First Baptist Church where a protest meeting was being held. Later that year white businessmen initiated a lawsuit against the organizers of the by now very effective boycott, charging restraint of trade. Blacks had established their own clothing and food cooperative by this time. The trial on the suit began in June, 1973, before a single judge - no jury. The adverse decision was rendered in late August of this year. Dr. Harry Hamilton, President help the A.o.:p, stadent to have a broader outlook on the subjects or courses they may be taking. The English course can assist the A.O.P. student, for instance, if the student is .a Political Science major. On the other hand, the Pre-Calculus course can assist the · student if the student is an Engineer maJor. Basically, these incorporating courses fill in where· different high schools which these students are from have lacke9.\ \Mr. Essandah, what is the purpose of the A.O.P. Program?\ \The A.O.P. Program is a program to 'help -students who are residents of New York State to get into colleges. like Union. Tile student's race, nationality, creed, or religion has n<> great value only that the student is lacking the financial aid; l>e\ng at an academic and educational disadvantage.\ \Mr. Essandan, what ate your hobbiesT' ••1 like playing tennis and going swimming and l dig dancing. Also, I admire reading and writing to keep in practic~:: and being awate. of what's happening worldwide.\ · Note From the Editor I would just like to take this time to congratulate all of the incoming freshmen in the class of 1980. And to wish you all much ·success an<i nope that your four years here are interesting for you S'Ociall;y as well as educationally. Union is a hard school - t!1ere's no doU'bt about that, but if you buckle down to the books and put socializing second you make it. Every ye1;1.r the Freshman classes look better than the past year of Freshmen, even though · the number tnat actually enroll is getting lower each year. But that d9esn't mean that the academics are going down because they aren't, they're getting better and harder. So keep up the good work and keep your heads in the books. The background of the case is incredible. In the mid-sixties there were no blacks elected or appointed officials amongst the 11,000-residents of Claiborne Co., although blacks constituted 75% of the population. Federal voting ~YYWYYYVVVWWnYWYVW~ ~ . 3 . ~ There will be a BAKE SALE sponsored by\ i:: ~ Byron Jackson & Charlie Weeks OJl i:: ~---~-----~---~-~~---------------~~~~---~ J Anyone wishing to work for PERSPECTIVE as a writer or typist fill I ~ Octob. e.r .16,. 1976. Scheduled time is ~ ~ Saturday afternoon and the place is. ~ ~ Hickok House located at 1301 Lenox ~ ~ Road,. So p~ease come out and buy some , ~ 1 this out and return it to Box #1157. 1 I I I Nam I I I I c~s I I I I -m~ I I Phone No 1 1 I ------------------------------~--------J ~ baked goods. rc ~ g ~ P. S: Bakers are needed and people to sell ~ ~ and clean up, .so plea,Se sign up with either i:: .~ Byron or Charlie no later than Friday, ~ ~ Oct. ts: · . ~ ~A~~~~~/AIAIA/AAAA~AAAh\IA1

U, 1976 if st . is .. October ~12, 1976 Pa,ge 3 Editor: An:ita Cvnningham ' Congratuldtions. Are In Q.rderlll Writ·ers For This Ed·ition Were: Fred Jack and David Wilson On behalf of The Black Student Alliance's Social Committee, we wisl1 to congratulate Delta Chi and l:heta Oelta CJJi·, on their first step to promote a ;better relation · between these hVo fraternities and the B.S.A. - · Comirtittee, -hope to promote a .better understanding of the goals this organization has set for itself, in coqjunction with the campus; .and the goals it wishes to achieve for its members. ~ Thank.You The three organizations have arranged to have ~ joint party which will be open to the campus. · The party is scheduled to take place on October 22, 1976. Time and place have not been agreed upon yet, but as soon as it has the entire campus will be alerted. - . Speaking as chairm~n of. the B.S.A. Social Committee, I am looking forward to working these two fratern.ities, and I ·am very optimistic about this upcoming party and all the other social functions we plan together. Special thanks go to Joe Shapiro of Theta Delta Chi and Phil' Giana of Delta Chi. B.S.A.'s Social Committee chairman for the year of 1976-77 is Mr. Fred Jack. .Big Brothers/Big Sisters By FRED JACK We hope to start a .new pb.ase within the B.S.A. in ·rdation to other fraternities as well as the campus. With this step;· we, the members of B.S.A.'s Social \ Anyone Interested This year the Big Brothers and Big Sisters organization needs a lot more volunteers to spend time each week in casual activities with children who .are in need of constant adult friendship. The relationship is on a one-to-one basis. Student co-ordinators on Campus are: Fred Jack, 370-6649 _and Dave Becker, 346-9895. Students interested In volunteering, please contact one of the campus co-ordinators or contact the home office 30 No. F!!rry St., phone 374-4523. In , This year, Big Brothers/ Big Sisters plans to sponsor many activities for both the volunteers and children. .SubscriptiO:ns The program on campus is a satellite of Big Brothers/ Big For PERSPECTIVE Newspaper · Sisters of Schenectady County, Inc., a private, non-profit organization affiliated with Big Brothers of America and Big Sisters International. There is a scheduled B.S.A. meeting on Oct. 19, 1976. To begin at 7:30 P.M. If a~ all possible, a meeting for com~ittee heads will be· -- scheduled before this meeting. Please come out and support the B.S.A. ..... :~ t-.-: -· . Contact the editor: A. Cunningham Box no\\ 1157 or ~all 370-6644 I Thank you EDITOR (VIEWS AND ·HIGHLIGHTS) Black Coach and Five New Cr,y For Recognition Play . er·s on Fo\ o·tball Team· s··. Begin~ingw.it.ht~enextissu\:of · . · · Perspecttve, I will be domg · · · profiles on all blacks participating This year on the J.V. and and fast for those long passes in sports. These profiles would be Varsity football squads there are from the quarterback. Kevin is a on black athletes participating five new young and exciting sophomore 'and an Engineering on Intramural teams as well as JV players who made it on both major. And his playing no. is 46. and Varsity teams. squads. And another Varsity player I feel that it is very important For Varsity there's a strong who will be back hopefully with to all athletes, whether they're offensive player who wears the the team when they play Hobart white or black to get some type of no. 64,at the games and makes away, Mr. \Magic\ himself, Marc praise for the types of jobs that that no. mean something at t~e Nazon. He's a defensive player they're doing· athletically. end of the game. His name is Mr. and a good one at that. He blocks Somehow, l feel a great Robert Richardson, <itherwise and hits with determination to concern and desire to see known as \Rev.\ And he's a knock the other guy right off his something done about this. monster on the field. . feet. Can't wait to see you hack in During my freshman year here, Mr. Clinton William plays action Marc. I saw nothing really exciting defense for Varsity and he plays For the first time in a while, about any black athelete who as one of the secondaries for Union has gotten a Black J.V, participated on the JV and defense on J.V.'s squad as well. coach, His name is Mr. Charlie Varsity football teams or for that He is quick and he hits hard for Weeks and he seems to be matter JV or Varsity Basketball someone with his weight, His no. working very hard with the< J. V. teams. is 35. He's a sophomore and a squad. They lost against Dean Jr. Hopefully, sometime in the Social Science major. College last Friday but they're near future something can be Mr. David L. Wilson plays on looking better every day in done about this. Because I feel the offensive squads for both J. V. - practice. And I'm sure they'll give that it is an important problem and Varsity. He~s a sophomore · WiUiams College in Mass. a good and so do a lot of other students and a Political Sciellce major. He game this Friday at 2 p.m. who attend Union:\ returns kicks and punts and plays . away. Good luck guys. Also, I think that there is to a offensive tailback. He runs with Next week we'll he qoing an certain extent favoritism, on the .speed and blocks well. His no. is interview on Mr. Weeks and the part of coaches for specific 16. players themselves. Corne out and players on teams. Maybe this is Mr. Kevin Moore plays offense support die teams and watch their for both J.V. and Varsity also. games. He's a tight end and he's quick By THE EDITOR the reason why Union hasn't had a successful season. in the past 2 years as far as football goes. I've seen a lot of football games and heard a lot of discussion about 'how . the coaches play certain players because they're Seniors and not because they're good. Maybe if they would play the players that are going to get out there and play heads-up football he'd do better in the games. And that means playing · Freshmen, Sophomores, Juniors and Seniors because they're good and they have it - not because of the year they're in at this College. It's something to think about wouldn't you say? I'd like to get responses to this article and see how people on the Union Campus feel about it. Send responses to box ltll57. Highlights For Next Edition Of Perspective The next issue of Perspective will feature a number of intetesting Articles, and here are a few: 1 - \An exclusive interview on Prof. Daniels,\ an Associate Professor of Political Science at Union. 2 - Interview on the new chairman of B.S.A., Mr. Byron Jackson. 3 - Autobiographies on four interesting and positive seniors. 4 - \Why the Upward Bound Program at Union College was phased out.\ 5 - And a sports exclusive.

Pag~4 PERSPECTIVE 1 Perspective's Creative ·Poetry Corner This week we 're featuring the poetic works of Miss Sara J. Hill· a~d a well known poet ahd author Mr. ·_L.angston Hughes. \Together\ (You and I) There will be some strong vibrations, in the air not just in one place, but everywhere. It seems so unreal, things which occur so suddenly, It happens not only to you, but then again with me. For we have always stayed together and seen both sides We have listerred to our voices We have laughed and cried. Let's go on remembering, those beautiful moments, that's what I'm going to do, sharing each and every day just thinking of you. No one shall blame you feel as you wish For it's your beautiful smile that shall be..missed. Just keep on smiling and look up to the sun, That bright and happier day is sure to come. And when it does approach may we share it together And live within the beauty of freedom forever and ever. S.J.H. \I Love You\ People so seldom say \I Love You\ and when they do, it sometimes has no meaning. But when I tell you It's with a sp~cial ki11d of feeling. The secureness and wonder Jlness that I do feel Loving you, it's all so real And out of all the things th ·t happen to me. One thing shall always be true, I'll spend the rest of my life happily Cause ''I Love You\ S.J.H. I, Too I, too, sing America I am the darker brother They send me to eat in the kitchen ~hen company comes, But I Laugh, And eat well, And grow strong. Tomorrow, I'll be at the table When company comes. J':.l'obody'U dare Say to me, \Eat in the kitchen \ ' Then. Besides, They'll see how beautiful I am And be ashamed - I, too, am America Langston Hughes Dream Variation To fling my arms wide ln some place of the Sun, To whirl and to dance Till the white Clay is done Then rest at cool evening Beneath a tall tree While night comes on gently, Dark like me - That is my dream! To fling my arms wide In the face of the sun, Dance! W~irl! Whirl! Till the qt :.:k day is done. Rest at p: . ~ evening ... A tall, sli: · · tree ... Night com1rtg tenderly Black like me. Langston Hughes \Your World ... \ I can't pretend with you For I'm afraid you can tell You're a mist of great memories That·I want so much. A smile of happiness Lifea.joy Which shares a world With every girl and boy. Singing, laughing, and crying, Here we show what we feel, Dividing the human mind, Is yet all so real. Dealing with the math; technology and all the great sciences, · This is what we yet to see, Human nature, aside from all, Is the place to be. Looking into the world of glass, Ifs you that cracks the smile, working on, with love and understanding, Within each and every mile. Place yourself from it aU Deal with it all, your own way Step out within happiness It's now your happy day. . For on and on, do the good things, You wish to do; You'll always be appreciated For someone is always watching you. S.J.H. \You've Become ~o Special\ You've gotten to know me Like I've gotten to know you. We've begun to share those things, That we want to say, feel and do. For this world could be a little brighter And happier too, If there were only more people, As beautiful as you. I'm beginning to love you, In my own special way, I only want the best in life and to have that, . I'd need you each and every day. We're like two people, barely knowing each. other Having that togetherness, For you are one, And I am the other. I hope you, feel good, Cause I want everyone to see Just how happy You have made me .... S.J.H.

Pa~e4 PERSPECTIVE Perspective's Creative Poetry Corner This week we're featuring the poetic works of Miss Sara 1 Hill and a well known poet and author Mr. Langston Hughes. \Together\ (You and I) There will be some strong vibrations, in the air not just in one place, but everywhere. It seems so unreal, things which occur so suddenly, It happens not only to you, but then again with me. For we have always stayed together and seen both sides We have listened to our voices We have laughed and cried. Let's go on remembering, those beautiful moments, that's what I'm going to do, sharing each and every day just thinking of you. No one shall blame you feel as you wish For it's your beautiful smile that shall be. missed. Just keep on smiling and look up to the sun, That bright and happier day is sure to come. And when it does approach may we share it together And live within the beauty of freedom forever and ever. S.J.H. \I Love You\ People so seldom say \I Love You\ and when they do, it sometimes has no meaning. But when I tell you It's with a sp~cial kii •d of feeling. The secureness and wonder ... !ness that I do feel Loving you, it's all so real And out of all the things th ·t happen to me. One thing shall always be true, I'll spend the rest of my life happily Cause \I Love You\ S.J.H. I, Too I, too, sing America I am the darker brother They send me to eat in the kitchen When company comes, But I Laugh, And eat well, And grow strong. Tomorrow, I'll be at the table When company comes. ~obody'll dare Say to me, \Eat in the kitchen,\ Then. Besides, They'll see how beautiful I am And be ashamed - I, too, am America Langston Hughes Dream Variation To fling my arms wide In some place of the Sun, To whirl and to dance Till the white aay is done Then rest at cool evening Beneath a tall tree While night comes on gently, Dark like me - That is my dream! To fling my arms wide In the face of the sun, Dance! W' irl! Whirl! Till the qt .:k day is done. Rest at p; evening ... A tall, sli. ' ree ... Night cont, ng tenderly Black like me. Langston Hughes \Your World ... \ I can't pre1:end with you For I'm afraid you can tell You're a mist of great memories That I want so much. A smile of happiness Life a joy Which shares a world With every girl and boy. Singing, laughing, and crying, Here we show what we feel, Dividing the human mind, Is yet all so real. Dealing with the math, technology and all the great sciences, This is what we yet to see, Human nature, aside from all, Is the place to be. Looking into the world of glass, It's you that cracks the smile, working on, with love and understanding, Within each and every mile. Place yourself from it all Deal with it all, your own way Step out within happiness It's now your happy day. For on and on, do the good things, You wish to do; You'll always be appreciated For someone is always watching you. S.J.H. \You've Become So Special\ You've gotten to know me Like I've gotten to know you. We've begun to share those things, That we want to say, feel and do. For this world could be a little brighter And happier too, If there were only more people, As beautiful as you. I'm heginning to love you, In my own special \\ay, I only want the be~t in life ,md to have that, I'd need you each ;•nd every day. We're like two people, barely knowing each other Having that togetherness, For you are one, And I am the other. I hope you, feel good, Cause I want everyone to see Just how happy You have made me .... S.J.H. .,

) ( JJ Volu~e 106, No. 3 Wednesday, October 13, 1976 • -Intruder On Monday, October 12, at approximately 3:30 a.m., an unidentified youth iliegally stole into North Dormitory. Immediately thereafter, the intruder entered a room on the Fourth Floor and woke up a sleeping coed. Upon seeing the girl's roommate, the transgressor left the room, closing the door behind him. The guilty party then proceeded to walk down the halls, checking for open doors .along the way. Unfortunately, his search was successful. The trespasser entered a second room, which happened to be a single, covered the inhabitant's mouth, and told the frightened girl not to scream. He followed tip this statement with the threat that he had a gun and would use it. When he went to open his pants, the girl began screaming and the unwanted intruder left her room. The first girl who had been awakened, after she cleared her head, reaHzed that a stranger had been in her room. Bearing the .screams of the second girl, she rushed down the hall toward the girl's roorp. Just then, the intruder opened the door and ran past the first girl and on . down the hall. She chased him, but he got away freely. · ,. ~ The girls involved went to the security guard at the front of North · I and reported the incident. Prompted by the girls, the guard called the t. head security guard at Richmond, reported the events, and provided a· description of the _intruder.· A \buzzer'' is triggered to go · Jay Shupe, DireCtor of Admissions, mulls over class .stats off whenever a door IS opene<l-~ that is, if the door is locked in the \}... Finkelstein Assesses Admissions first place. It seems that the door P 1 • • of Bronner, the North Co~op, is 0 . 1 C 1 es often left open because. since it is located at the far end away from by MURRAY LEVINSON The following was obtained in an interview with Professor Joseph Finkelstein, recently elected chairman of the . Admissions Committee. This committee advises on the crfter.ia used in evaluating applicants, as well as being actually involved ih passing judgement on applications. Professor Finkelstein has some specific goals that he would like to accomplish with the committee this year. These include: 1) Moving the admissions office out of the Dean of Students' office to the Dean of Faculty's, as the Educational Policy. Committee· recommended last spring. Finkelstein believes that the fac uJty would feel \much more empathetic if admissions reported to ... (their) senior academic officer (the Dean of Faculty);'' I) Moving the Admissions Office 2) . Providing a seat on the Admissions Committee for the Dean of Faculty or the Assistant to the Dean, to \represent ~rtain academic standards\ of the college; 3) Wanting \to bring SAT scores up,\ and increase the rate of enrollment among accepted stuaents; 4) Making \as clear as possible what the Admissions policies are, and seeing that they are followed;\ 5) taking \a sizeable chunk of money\ and giving out \merit scholarships, not based -on financial need ... for outstanding sludents.\ Twenty to twenty-five students each year would receive _the scholarships. This would draw top-notch, talented ·people who would' view the grant as a great honor, and as an e~tra incentive to attend Union. With regard t<J the 52 freshmen with verbal scores under 450, and 36 students with math scores under 450, · Finkelstein . replied that he wa_s not a part of the . decision-making process that accepted these students, and he does not know the ·criteria they used. \Board scores are only one criterion,\ he pointed out. Though Finkelstein claimed that there is no \single identifier\ that determines the outcome of an application, statistics from the classes of l979 and 1980 indicate that class rank is -still very impoptant. oqhe applicants with SAT·s~otes in the 200-499 range, but ranking in the top 40% of their class, 45% Were accepted. At the other extreme, of those with scores from 700-800 who ranked in the bottom 60% of their class, only 30% Were accepted. To deal with this discrepancy, there now exists a SAT score \floor.\ An applicant with scores below this standard must have his fo'lder reviewed by at least two members of either tbe Admissions Office or the Admissions Committee. Finkelstein's proposal also mandates that \if you have a score. of 700 (or above); you may not be rejected at Union unless your folder .is read by (at least) two people either in Admissions or on the Committee.\ This is in line with one of the goals mentioned earlier; i.e;, to have very clear policies and to follow them. Regarding interviews, Finkelstein is in agreement with the Admissions policy that interviews are not\ required; only strongly encouraged. :But he feels that the interview can .and should be used to find out more about what kind of person the applicant is. He believes that ••you can, in ten minutes, learn all you need in an interview, if you are a skilled interviewer.\ Although the percentage of students coming' from New York State and the Northeast in general has been increasing, Finkelstein does not see this as a problem. Instead of going after a student in the west or south just for the sake of geographic diversity, he would rather see an effort made to recruit students in areas of good high schools, with a socio- economic profile of people interested in private . education and able to pay for it. Some areas he mentioned were Boston, Cleveland, Chicago, Baltimore, Miami and the area outside of Philadelphia. As far as getting alumni involved in the recruiting process, Finkelstein believes that \the alumni organization was allowed to .. .fall apart. .. (and) it is· one of the weakest alumni club structures that l have seen.\ He would definitely like to see the alumni much mo.re involved and feels that they could be very ·useful. the seclJrity post, it is too much trouble for the guard to check the women, based on a ratio 2/3 men door and reset the alarm and I./3 women. Finkelstein whenever the door is opened. believes that there is no quota On Monday night that door now. He is in favor of making up was left unlocked. This is the each class based on their . . . . . same door, the girls suspect, by qualificatiOns, not on their sex. . which the intruder entered · as • .It appears that Professor.· when he was fleeing the seen~, h; Fmk~ls~em and th~ rest of the passed many of the North exits Ad~Issions Commtttee have an and left via Bronner. active year ahead of them. The guard, furthermore, had Howev~r, ~o assure us th~t seen the trespasser earlier in the everythmg IS not a~ bad as . 1 ~ evening. The intruder originally ~ou~ds, he. made this co~ment. tried to enter the main door, but In all th1s talk about better turned and ran when he saw the students, ... I really don't feel that guard on duty. the st~dents we have now are There are also reports that dummtes ... We have a very ~ble doors on the second floor were stu~ent hody ... bl!'t we certamly tried during the same night. don t want to shp ... we want to To date, no one from Security attract abler students.\ Continued on Page 10 Finkelstein contends that the pool of applicants is increasing by a \sizeable amount\ What disturbs him is the quality of the students who are accepting · Union. Because of the costs of private education, people are, and will be, opting far public education. We are stillgetting the applications, but when they are accepted, they then decide that they really cannot afford to · · enroll. This enrolbnerit rate is 35% for the class of 1980; down from 47% for the class of t971. When Unioo first we11t coed six years ago, there was a quota for l t' •

.. CQNCORDIENS!S, Wednesday, Oct. 13, 1976 Seniors Yesterday, By LISA BARON Administrators Today On June 15, 1976, I said good- bye to 'my friends in the graduating class, assuming it would be a while before I would again see them at Union College. Much to my surprise, I retl\rned to school this fall only to find two 1976 .graduates now pa:rt of the administratiofr. Joe Zolner, taking over Craig Carlson's position, is an assistant director of admissio,ns, and Dave Mendelowitz has taken on the job of Job information Coordinator in the Placement Office. When I talked to Joe and Dave, the one thing that most impres·sed me was their overwhelming enthusiasm. Both of them had originally planned to continue on to graduate school, and, as such, neither had anticipated that they would be return.jng to Union- as administrators. But fortunately, this phenomenon only occurs during working hours. As an assistant .director of admissions, Joe'sjob at this time basically entails interviewing prospective students. He is often on the road, visi·ting high scbools in various parts of the Northeast. Financial aid questions are referred specifically to Joe. When talking with prospective students, says Joe, \I .don't want to sell Union like selling vacuum cleaners. 1 tell a prospective student what Union has to offer, and leave them with the decision .. \ He tries to be honest with everyone. the Placement Office at least once a day.) It is difficult to impress upon students, until they are seniors and faced with uncertain futures, that the Placement Office offers a tremendous amount of assistance to everyone. Dave's present position as Job Information Coordinator is concerned with grant-in-aid students. Here, he matches the students with jobs, coordinates intern programs for students interested in ta·king time off without losing their college standing and helps locate summer jobs. ln addition, all on-campus jobs are arranged through him. Mendelowitz happy and at home with new position To return here as part of the College's staff only three months after being a part of the student body has created a new perspective for both Joe ~nd Dave. They now want to contribute to the school, rather than absorb its benefits. Joe initially applied for the job because he is interested in a career in counselling and student personnel services, The position opened up in May when Craig Carlson moved to Director of Student Affairs, and many soon- to~be graduates applied for the position. After four separate interviews, Joe was notified that the job was his a week after graduation. And in my opinion, they could not have picked a more enthusiastic and all-around friendly person. Later on, Dave plans to begin workshops for underclassmen, which will be basicaUy self- developmental. A concerted effort is being made to improve communications wit'1 all students, to let them know what the Placement Office has to offer. According to Dave, there is something for everyone and the people who work . in the office, Suzanna Miller, John Sohtzzo, and Dave are aU there to help you discover what it is you want to do. Dave says, \I have the best of two possible worlds:\ He works directly with students and as part of the administration, he is now able to \give something of Pre-legal Advice By CHERYL PARKER At this time of year, when seniors are frantically studying for those evil LSA Ts necessary for their political destinies, many juniors are apt to wonder where Union College's resident pre-law adviser holds court. Union College's highly regarded Political Science Department is fortunate to have on .. their staff an experienced lawyer, who maintains the officious title of pre-law adviser for the· entire student body. This influential man is Prof. Joseph B. Board, Jr., who has been a Union College political science professor since 1965. Prof. Board received his undergraduate degree from Indiana University, where he won a Rhodes Scholarship to attend Oxford University. After obtaining his law degree from Oxford, Prof. Board returned to Indiana where he acquired his Doctor of Jurisprudence (the science of law) and consequently became a member of the Indiana bat. Finally, Prof. Board obtained his Ph.D. in Political Science and accepted his present position at. Union College. He is also an adjunct professor of law at the Albany Law School. Prof. Board has been a pre-law advisor in some capacity or other since 1959. most Union College graduates have been successful at their law schools. They have also aided future Union College graduates in displaying a sti:ong preparation for law school which builds a fine reputation for Union College. Prof .. Board is attempting to correlate information with the, Alumni Office on Union College graduates and their success~ at law schools in· order to aid future undergraduates in their law school decisions. He feels that this feedback will be of assistance to students in proving the success their fellow graduates have had. , Prof. Boar<! stressed that , a student could obtain as good an undergraduate degree at Union as at any other school in the country; students should not feel their education here to be inferior. A student should seriously consider certain law schools starting in the spring of his junior year, and plan on taking the LSA Ts either the summer preceding senior year or that fall. Anyone interested in discussing their prospective law careers should feel free to stop by Prof. Board's office in the Social Sciences Building. Most people here may have a hard firne recognizing Joe because, along with his new job, away WS-nt his customary attire- in particular, the notorious hat. For those seniors falling into . the ••I don't know what to do next year\ syndrome, I suggest you get to \)no~ Dave. (At least this way you will have· an excuse to visit . himself' to Un\on Colleg~. In an attempt to Improve communications between- the administration and student body, . the College could l)Ot have selected two more enthused or petter -people thail Joe an~l Dave. They haven't been away long enough not to be students \at heart.\ If anyone :does not know either of them, l urge you to walk into their offices to meet and get to know them. JEWISH STUDENT · ORG. - HILLEL ' ~ . . Presents '· ISRAELl DANCING with local professional LORRAINE ARCUS Wed., Oct. 20 in Old Chapel 7-9 p.m., All are Welcome. In counselling pre-law students, Prof. Board maintains an open- door policy and encourages all students to discuss their pre- professional ideas with him. In preparation for Law School, Prof. Board urges a broad liberal arts background with a major that the student is most interested in. It is then the responsibility of the student to seek out those professors and courses which will be most beneficial in aiding the individual to stretch his mental capabilities. A student must learn to analyze complex situations and then be able to clearly express the results of these investigations. Prof. Board also recommends as a prerequisite for every potential law student an accounting course, as many intricate law cases require such skills. A Multi·p~rposed Rink Concordy extends get wishes to Donna Ha wkiiis Bill. Colli n·s. Our hopes prayers for a spee~y and recovery. well and and full In judging a student's acceptance chances at Law School, Prof. Board takes into account the student's grade point average and verbal SAT scores. He states that the student's verbal SAT scores are a good indicator of the area in which his future LSAT scores will be located. Though there are no compiled statistics of past Union College law boards, due to lack of student feedback, Prof. Board claims that By Whit Kennedy_ Last year saw a number of additions to the college community, the biggest of which was the Achilles Rink. The Rink brought ice to the campus and surrounding community for the first time in nearly 40 years; it brought both excitement and opportunity for involvement. An intercollegiate hockey team, which had been absent from the school for nearly two decades, was recruited. The rink not only brought winter sports to the college, but it enabled the schoel to expand other activities. The Rink's large seating capacity (4,000 seat~) was utilized for concerts, back-up for graduation; alumni receptions, and parents• weekend activities last year. Also, the huge locker rooms were used for girls' varsity sports, visiting teams, and football and Iacross teams. In addition, the Rink held broomball, curling, and women's hockey. The Rink has already established itself as a strong multi-purpose facility for maximum student use. Mr. Ned Harkness, manager of the Rink and hockey coach, feels that the Rink can be an important and integral part of tbe school. He strongly encourages people to become involved with its activities .. lhe availability of ice time continues to be a high priority. Students and local residents use the Rink for free skating and participate · in series of skating lessons. For the enthusiastic hockey fans, there is intramural hockey, not to forget intercollegiate hockey. Practices occupy only a small fraction of the allotted ice time each day. According to Mr. Harkness, Union has \more free ice time than any school in the country.'' For non-skaters, the Rink offers additional types of leisure activities. The Union Social Committee used the Rink for concerts last year. Last spring the see more concerts and other IJSes Social Committee expressed of the Rink, as he feels they negative sentiment toward the \bring the campus together.\ He Rink's strict policies regarding suggests scheduling one concert use. However, according to per term, and offered to schedule Committee Chairman Rich hockey practice in the morning, Solomon, that grievance has been so as to avoid a time conflict. fully retracted. lie explained that From a financial point of view, there were only small- problems- the exorbitant running costs are with the Rink last year~ These being offset by revenue inflow. problems involved security for the While the Rink does not charge concerts, installation of electrical students for public skating or lines, and other technical hockey tickets, its primary interferences. He added. that they sources of revenue come from were all pretty much solved. ticket sales to the public, re11tal of The minor problems, directly ice time to youth clubs, and figure accountable to the Rink's skating classes. newness, were far outweighed by These community-ba-sed the Rink's tremendous success in activities not only help balance attracting community the budget, but boost Union's involvement. Last year's three appeal within the community. concerts and the winter carnival Harkness indicated that Union were exuemely successful; has developed a name for itself according to both Harkness and through its success as a hockey Solomon. The Loggins and team and its . close relationship Messina concert drew 4,000 with the area. people, half of which Were from This, he claiills, has ·made the outside community. . Mt. CQiitinued Qn Page 1.0. ~arkness, said he would hke to ,

once impress hey ate Office of Dave's Job tor is nt-in-aid the students off college him. t«;> begin self- effort improve students, hat the offer. there is and the office, Solqzzo, help you want to best of works as part is now hing of improve the body, have or Dave. long \at know walk and get .. well and and full lJSeS Is they He concert view, are inflow. chm:ge or primary from e11tal of figure balance Union's Union itself hockey made IJ! . CONCORDJENSIS, Wednesday, Oct .. J3, 1976 Rhod:esia: Prospects .for Settlement Un O-ctober 7, the International Relations Club hosted Mr. John. l'{oo,per,. information officer ftom the · Rhodesian Government. Mr. Hooper discussed the ptesent African situation and considered the prospects for peace as positive. His prirne minister, Ian Smith, has accepted an Anglo-American Pac~ consisting of 5 points which would ·insure the formation of a \black-majority\ government within two years. Among those five points were the formation of By~KEITH F. EDWARDS an economic boosting trust fund for Rhodesia, a cease in all terrorist activities, the .end of aU international economic boycotts of Rhodesia and a meeting (in now deter'mirted Geneva) to form an interim government. Mr. Hooper disputed claims that his government was racist. Stating that the differences were more ideological than racial, Mt. Hooper contended that the reason for the vast differences in wealth between blacks and whites was that whites, being on the whole better educated and qualified, Potts Deaned by HOPE FABIAN held higher paying jobs. He also indicated that h was his govetnment's policy to employ the best qualified individual regardless of color. For the future, Mr. Hooper looks forward to the interim , , ,.. government, but he cited many problems that first have to be settled. The black leaders of tbe African National Council and other nationalist groups will have to come to .agreement arnmig themselves before any interim· government can be formed. Another point of difficulty is taxes. In a country of over 6 million people, the 200,000 whites pay 99% of the taxes; in a black majotity government, who would , pay? It seemed that aU sides were -e optimistic. Tribal leaders have [ ··· · expressed gratitude that their :, youth may now return to schools ~ and work rather than fight, while all Rhodesians look forward to !' the end of terrorist activities and l \ resumption of a healthy state of = -i!MIIllilllllllll Page3 The posi!ion of Associate Dean-- of Faculty has been expanded to a full time job, and it is now filled by Dr. David Potts, a member of the Union College factilty since 1967. responsibility. The discussion and formulation of alternatives to the present Comprehensive Education program 'Came to a halt last spring as the faculty awaited a new Dean of Faculty, Dr. Paula Brownlee. Commenting upon the proposals available, that of a distinctive set of courses or a simple distribution requirement, Dr.· Potts stressed that a sweeping change is not anticipated in the immetliate future, as the budgets and faculty are firmly, established. He noted that any change in the Camp.. Ed. system would result economy. Hooper speaking about the Rhodesian reality In his newly-appointed post,· Dean Potts. plans to retain his position as Assistant Professor of Hist.ory by teaching one course, and he continues as Director of the Amer.ican Studies program. The new Associate Dean defined his position as encompassing two main areas of responsibility. Dollars and Sense Registered -only from a judgement of the ' College Senate. In another area, Dean Potts Student activities at Union briefly discussed the tenure College frequently depend on process which often evokes funds received from the school considerable controversy. Potts Tax Committee. This committee, said that he \unequivocally however, has been suffering from approves of the current a lack of funds itself, the result procedures· for making a tenure being that most activities are decision.\ He noted, ali well, that existing on the bare minimum of there is room .for small money required. improvements, particularly in the . Last year the Committee, under third year reviews. the leadership of Dave Eilbott Dean Potts also made clear his overestimated their funds; more stance on Union's academic than $180;000 was spent when calendar. Because he \was not they actually had only $150,000 to persuaded that there were their credit. This was caused by .a sufficient reasons to change it,\ his view is that it should remain , as it is. \' - misunderstanding between themselves and their accountant, as well as by overexpenditures on the part of various clubs. Thus, the committee was forced to delve into reserve funds, producing a deficit. This problem is a crucial one, for without the proper funds, the growth and perpetuation of many student activities at Union will be stifled. Larry Fein, chairman of this year's Tax Committee, has outlined with other members of the group several ways in whic.h the committee may increase and The first of these is academic advising, au area already undergoing some changes at the time ·of his appointment. The pilot program now in -effect · prepares a selected group of faculty for .. advising undeclared Liberal Arts majors. Since some 130 freshmen are undeclared Liberal Arts majors, the administration hopes to improve the past system of counseling solely on a departmental basis. Under Dr. Potts' guidance, it is the aim of this program to transform the often abrupt faculty-student consultation at pre-regtstrauon into a meaningful and educated exchange of ideas. The area of general education Concerning other issues we discussed, Dean Potts emphasized his availability. He encourages all faculty and students to visit his office, located in the corner of the Science and Engineering Building, Room SlOO. Fox House Talk line falls within Dean Potts' Dean Potts- new blood and fresh plans A person who can understand your situation best is someone who has been through it. This idea has been developed into the form of a \talk line.\ The Fox House Talk Line, grown out of the concern which students have towards their fellow students will serve an existing- need at Union. Students will be able to talk out problems, receive support and just know that somebody cares. The Talk Line is not designed in the conventional sense of a hot line (a hot line infers that the caller has a major crisis). Fox House Talk Line will be for all of TENUR 1!: PROBLEMS DISCUSSED Last May, President Bonner requested that the four campus trustees (2 faculty and 2 student) consider carefully the current di.ssatisfaction on the part of some students concerning the tenure process. To faci-litate these discussions the two student trustees, Chris Taylor and Andy Koblenz, will conduct an open rneeting to hear all opinions and = sentiments about the tenure 'i·process at Union and receive any ideas on how to improve the system. This meeting will take place on October 20 at 6 p.m. in Strauss Lounge. If you are concerned about the problem please attend. us who feel lonely, upset about academics, anxious over a lack of set direction, or just someone who wants to hear a friendly voice. We will perform a referral service for those who need information about community activities, clinics and other such organizations. Fox House, in cooperation with Craig Carlson, conceived the Talk Line as a campus-wide venture run by students.. Anyone interested in helping to man the phones will undergo a training experience. Confidentiality will be stressed as well as various helping techniques. The phone lines will be open II :00 p.m. to 3:00 a.m. Anyone wishing to help, please contact Craig Car)son (6061) or Adie Carlyle, 215 Fox (6428) by Oct. 15th. FRESHMEN! ATTENTION! ATTENTION! All freshmen interested in taking part in Stu,dent Government Committees, there will be a sign up list in Student Activities (to the right of the mailroom) on Mrs. Marra's desk. Don't complain get involved. Any questions call Michael Gan~o at 370-6786. control their budget. The first of these methods would be to create an increased income through the clubs' own fund-raising efforts. These efforts could include selling more ad space in publications such as the Concordiensis and the Yearbook. Anything which could be done to increase the activities income would be acceptable. The Tax Committee also plans to keep a closer account of money spent through the · use of a computerized bookkeeping system. In addition to these steps the tax committee has assigned each member about six activities to work with. Closer contact between the activities and the Tax Committee should provide better communication and understanding on the part of each . party. The Tax Committee is suffering the repercussions 'of a previous year of overspending. They are maintaining a budget based on necessity alone for each organization. It is their hope that ends will meet and the year will be a success. This, however, can only be done with the sincere cooperation of the student body and the members of its various activities. SENIORSIU The seniors section of the yearbook must be finished this term! This year you'll be given you 1 choice of candid or formal portraits. All candids must be at least 3 x 5 inches. Formal pictures will be taken the week of Oct. 25- 28 in Hale House lounge from 9 a.m. to 4 p.m. Check your mailboxes for more information. Sign ups will be in the Students Activities Office and there will be a sitting fee of $4. Every senior-person will also have page space for a quotation, quips or any other vulgarity he- she wishes to include. Leave your remembrance in the Student Activities Office. Do not delay the deadline is Nov. 15, 1976, no foolin'.

Paie4 CON_CORDIEN;SIS, Wednesday, Dct. 13, 1976 Life at '' Eddie's Douse'r-1 Edwards House on Lenox Road has built itself quite a reputation, and not a very goo9 · one at that. Perhaps this zan be attributed to the famous Edwards House Friday night parties that begin at 8 and end at 8:30, Or maybe it's because people from Edwards are continually complaining about their aching leg muscles which have been strained on the long walk to and from Edwards and the main campus. Placement News Through this college year, the Ca~er Counseling and Placement Office will submit a weekly column .to Com:ordy which will replace the Career Planning and Placement Newsletter initiated last spring. These weekly· articles will discuss the programs and services offered by the Placement Office as well as provide life.! Even though public opinion of Edwards is unlike that of the Zoo (fourth floor West) and more like that of an animal nursery, it has not discouraged I 4 upperclassmen from choosing to live at Edwards House. These 6 women and 8 men chose to live at Edwards because the many advantages outweigh the few disadvantages. Chateau Edwards in the woods ' planning~ placeme?t, and ~areer . .................................. ·.······································:·:·:·:-:·:·:~·:·:·:·:·:':~':':·:·:·<:lnformatton. It ts our Intent Edwards House has large rooms with paneled walls and contemporary furnishings. On the first floor is a large living .room with fashionable decor which is ideal for either studying or partying. There is al!;o a kitchenette equipped with a large refrigerator, sink and stove. Also, many believe that Edwards has the best washing machine and dryer on campus. Because it is on Lenox Road, lll~fi!=:~:::::::::::::::::i:=:~:::i::,:;:;:,:;:;:,::::::::::::::::=:=:=:=:=:=:=:=::::::~:::~-:-:·:·:·:·:·.·:·:·:·:·:·:>:;,;·:wthrough these articles to reach the Edwards has privacy~ but this has !iii!! Sneaker's Forum !!}ENTIRE co~lege community and In addition to the washing machines there are 2 Freshman girls who will wash and dry clothes for 50¢ a load and clean .rooms for one dollar a shot. Soon, the house will have a game room and bar to accentuate the already modern living facilities on the first floor. not prevented restdents from !l!l!l r . ., Moffer somethtng for everyone. So, throwing room parties several f!l - o; J~!hook for o11r column (even try times a week. All 14 .residents ll~ll Due to the up-and-cominggbeading it) and by all means come know each other; people of Hlelections, the student's Speakers tllby and visit us. Ed~ards affectionate~~ refer ·to l~@~Forum. r~els tbat it _ has . a[!§~ ADVERTISING AND · thetr dorm as Edd1e s House. mlll responstblltty to ~he campu~ to @ COMMUNICATIONS Those who have moved away ::::::represent .all pomts .of v1ew. ;:;~: . · from Edwards House and into iillTherefore, we are sponsoting the @l · SQUND INTERESJING? either fraternities or off-ca_mpus l@lj following three lectures: Ella li The Advertising Women of apartments make periodic visits ljlj~ Grasso, governor of Connecticut,@ New York Foundation, Inc. and to Edwards and have even had @lj will speak- on behalf of Carter-'illlFordham University College of house reunions. They must feel !H Mondale this Friday night in !1 Business will sponsor the 20th pride in their old house. l:l:~SS0-16 at 7:30. On Wednesday, ~:;:j Annual Advertising Career · . m M And so do the current·res1dents :;:;~October 27, at 8:3'0 an~;:;:Conference to be held at it: MONDAY lill~ ilj~\ 7:30 a.m.-9 a.m., DAN ROSENBAUM, (Rock) ~I )i 9-11 a.m., RICH SIEGEL, (Rock) l~l~ ljf II a.m.-12 noon, SURPRISE, (Rock) l~jljl l;r 12-2. p.m., ROB MAGAZINER, (Jazz-Rock) ~~jjl M 2-5 p.in., BOB DEUTCH, (Rock) , ~ill~ t! 5-8 p.m., JOYCE_,FARLEY, (Rock) ~l~1 ll 8-ll p.m., RICH FORSELIUS, (Rock) ~11 :;~:l ll p.m.-2 a.m., KERRY ACKER, (Jazz-Rock) f:l:~ of Edwards have pride in their i@ undisclosed representative ofiljll Fordham University, Lincoln house. They keep on showing up il!l\ Daniel P. Moynihan will' speak in ~liCenter Campus ln Manhattan ori at those Edwards House FridaytlfMemorial Chapel. M. Stanton1§\N ovember 6, 1976. Th 1 is night .parties, which have been )l~ll Evans, the president of the \~jjj conference has been created for growing larger and noisier every :;;~ American Conservative Party and )jlj~ seniors and graduate students (as. week; and they continue walking :llili author of the book Clear and 1m well as their faculty) majoring or back and forth to campus, no :jjj* Present Dangers, will present 1lWwith a major interest in communi- longer complaining quite so);~ Senator Buckley's point of view Mcations or related fields (TV, loudly of their aching legs. ~~~on October 21· at 8:30 in SSOf6. ~lfbrmidcasting I radio, media ~~~:~~=~~:~:~~~~=~~~=~=~~:;;~:~r::~=~~=~~:~=~~:j:~:;:~:~r::l:~:~:~:~:~:~~=~r::;r::~=~=~~===~*i:;:~:;~:~:~;:;:~:~fff~lJ ·buying and selling, art', account IQ.aQagement, etc.) ~ ~ .. This is a unique opportunity C . I y . r ·F. t r . for students to participate in a 1 ru~~ I ll~ll 7:30-9 a.m., NEAL ADAM SCHWARTZ, (Rock) !M m 9-10 a.m., ROY ZUCKERBERG, (Rock) M ~@lj lO-ll a.m., RUTH RAPPAPORT, (Folk-Rock) :t: l~lltl a.m.-l2N, MITCH SINGER, (Jazz-Rock) :@\ oun se . . ou . u u . e progtam that is designed to give lili!\ 12N-2 p.m., CLIFF COHEN, (Rock) t~l ~tl 2-5 p.m., LANCE BOBROW, (Rock) ~l~~l M 5-8 p.m., BETH HELLMERS, (Rock) Wl E . . .. . 1 . · h h f h k ld H~ 8-11 p.m., DAN ROSENBAUM, (Rock) 1~!! . veryone ts ~~m~ tar Wit t e expect rom t e wor wor . :;@lll .m.-2 a.m. MICHAEL ROBERTS (Rock) lglll p~enomenal. stattstlc that there Va~ious industries, s~nd i:r:;: p ' ' l~:l: wtll be twiCe as many college recrUiters on campus to mterv1ew =it WEDNESDAY lmll graduates this yearthan there were. seniors about perspective jobs. l~l[\ 7:30-11 a.m., MONDAY T AALLER, (Rock) ~t less than a decade ago; The number of recruiters has @I I a.m.-12N, JIM SEAMANS, (Rock) H Consequently, finding and dropped, due in part to the fact tl~l l2N-2 p.m., JACK GLYNN, (Rock) lll!jl landmg one of the approximately that.companies now feel they'll Iet )l~[ 2-5 p.m., MITCH SINGER, (Disco-Rock) ~lll! 35,000 established jobs can be a applicants come to them. :;[f:l5-8 p.m., ROB MAGAZINER, (Jazz-Rock) ~llll Herculean task in and of itself. Fortunately, Union has a good !@8-11 p.m., NEAL ADAM SCHWARTZ, (Rock) g Union College, through the reputation !1-ntong many !l1l!' II p.m.-2 a.m., JON HARDEE, (Country-Rock) ~j;~f; Career Counseling and Placement companies, such as Bell ~~~ THURSDAy n Center, offt;rs to· Union students Telephone . wh~ch has. Un_ion :::::: ~ ::~:: and alumm a chance to get a graduates m ftve of tts vtce- ~fi 7:30-9 a.m., MICHAEL ROBERTS, (Rock) l~ \jumg on the job market.\ presidential offices. Most ~J 9-10 a.m., ROY ZUCKERBERG, (Rock} l[ll~ Susanna Miller, director of companies which know of Union ;:1:1: 10-11 a.m., RUTH RAPPAPORT, (Folk-Rock) ~lllll Career Counseling and Placement realize the high potential available f:lll~ ll-12N, LANCE BOBROW, (Rock) l~~j~ along with John Solazzo, Career in her graduates but one of the ~[lj;l2N-2 p.m., PHANTOM, (Rock) . ~l~l1 Counselor, help students to problems, which the Center is @ 2-5 p.m,, ANDY DENISON, (Rock-Jazz-Blues) tl~ explore their interests, skills, trying to alleviate, is that tlnion is ~~~p-8 p.rn., ANDY SCHWARTZ, (Jazz-Rock) ~ll~ values, and attitudes and then virtually unknown by other m 8-11 p.m., OLEN EMELOCK, (Rock) ~m look at work in terms of tfiese companies. :;:~ill p.m.-2 a.m., JIM McPARLAND, (Rock) ;:;:~ personal characteristics. The One of the most important ~~t FRIDAY m ultimate goal of career counseling functions of the Center is its l~lb:30-9 a.m., JACK GLYNN, (Rock) . !11 is for students to be able to find indi~idual career. counseling m 9-10 a.m., NEAL ADAM SCHWARTZ, (Rock) lmll w~rk that is both satisfying and sesstons. These se~s1~ns are op~n ~lll:: J0-12N RANDY MEYERS (Rock) llllll enJoyable, through the process of to everyone who ts mterested m f~ 12N-2 p.m., JIM SEAMANS, (Rock) :j~!ll organizing their thinki~g about the vari?us options open to ll!m 2-5 p.m., BILL COLBURN, (Rock) [j~~jj the?Iselves and the ~orkmg worl_d people m an undergradu~te ;l~ll! 5-8 p.m., RUDY LU, (Rock-Jazz) !jl~~l whtle never fo~gettmg the _baste program. If you ar~ wonder~~g j~@j 8-l J p.m., DIRK HERMANCE, (Rock) t! concepts of a hberal educatto~. wh~t you; can d~ wtth a speClftc l;~llll p.ill.-2 a.m., STEVE BLONSKY, (Rock) j;;::; The ~enter n~ns _an extenstve maJor or JUSt do~ t know why you ;:;~: . :;J career hbrary whtch ts open to all are here at Umon, you should l~l~ll SATURDAY :;~l~ students to acquaint themselves take advantage of these seminars. ~~t l0-12N, JON HARDEE, (Rock) :J!· with various caret!rs, graduate Even though some of these @ l2N-2 p.m., JIM WALSH, (Rock) 'i1l~i' schools, and companies. You can programs will not he of inte~est to :~:* 2-5 p.m., PETE DELAHUNT, (Rock) l~lll register for part-time summer and you, there undoubtedly wtll be lilili 5-11 p.m., SURPRISE NOOKIE, (Rock) :M school year jobs along with all sessions which can help you in lllf,[ll p.m.-2 a.m., ANDY MITCHELL, (Rock} illll:. grant-in-aid jobs on campus at your decisions regarding present j~~~ SUNDAY m the Center. work concerns . and ultimately ij~ 10 a.m.-1 p.m., JIM BAKER, (Classical) f~il . The .c?llege Venture Program your future work plans. . . ~~~ 1-3 p.m., RUTH RAPPAPORT, (Classical} ·!iii! 1s a~mtn_Istered by th~ Cente~ to Perhaps the best way to. f~nd ::?-:: 3-5 ANDY DENISON (J. ) ':;:;j provtde ltitern work tn a vanety out about the Career Counseling ·:-:·· p.m., · ' azz .... < f · f d · h d Pl t Off' ·d 't l~m 5-8 p.m., RICH STAUBER, (Rock) @: o _occupations or ~tu ents. w o an . ace me~ tee - !\n 1 s M 8-11 p.m., RANDY MEYERS, (Rock) il[~ want to tak.e some ttme. off fro~ servtces -:- 1s. to drop m and m 11 .m.-2 a.m. MIKE LARSON (Rock) illlli college whtle not losm~ .theu ~rowse through the company :~:~ p - ' ' i§~: student status and beneftts, for hterature and the occupational m NEWS SUMMARIES 10 a.m. 1 p.m. 4:45 p.m., 6:30 p.m., 10 i~!l the purpos~ of more effective . information, talk to the :~~l ' ' ' ~~: career planmng. The facts do bear counselors, and get a total feel for ... pm ······ . . .. · . ~f s'PORTS REPORTS, 9:15 a.m. a1.1d 11:30 p.m. Weekdays ~~!! out the ~ffectiveness of . the !he enttre operation;. The Center ~~l WEATHER ON THE HALF HOUR llilll program, st~c~ 95% of stu~ents 1s ~o~stantly t~llmg . students §t COMMUNITY CALENDAR THROUGHOUT THE DAY ~~~1 :Who do P!irttctpate ~ave a htgher they U do everythmg to h~lp you, i§j . - *.:~ JOb retentton rate, szmply be~use . but mostly you'll be learnmg how · ~::~~;::M~l:!!;~:::::::::::::;::::~:::::::W.~::~:~::::::::~::::::~::::m.@:::~;.:~m:~::::-::f.~:?:~:f.:!:::~::::-:::::m:=,:;:r~::;;.::;~:::::::*::::#~:::::=:~:~:::::=::::::-:::::::::::::::ml~ they have a better idea of what to tt;> help yourself.\ , . By PETER DON.LON practical, in-depth information about the . Advertising and cbmmunications industry. Now in its 20th year, this conference is enthusiastically supported by the entire advertising industry, ' and key executives and experts will be on hand. to answer questions and discuss career opportunities. For further details and registration forms inquire at the Placement Office. (All registrations must be confirmed by October 27, 1976). BULLETINS Buff~o Forge 1 Company has changed their recruiting date at Union from Thursday, November ll, 1976 to Tuesday, November 16, 1976. Siim-up date remains the same. Please pick up applications for . summer employment with Eastman Kodak in the fields of engineering, science and business in the Placement Office. S•ve ~oney RUD·NICK' 308 State-St. 372·6486 · Heatlquarteis for tee and Levi Jeams,. · f~tei P•nts, . WorJt, loots and Pro Kedl . lowest . priee ... on dotvn ._jack ... IQid VM ' FOR.LJQUOR AND WINE Try Jake Lip stein's. 464 State Street 374-1888

the will and and e life..! carceer intent the ty and So, en try s come NG? of and of 20th at ori Th,is (or (as. or (TV, media rtunity in a give and Now in is by the and will be and and at the (All ny has at emains for with of • 1 CQNCORDIENS/S, Wednesday, Oct. 13, 1976 Foreign Policy: Ford v. Carter by Pro{. Paul Johnson, Political Science. Department At the height of a presidential campaign .a· debate on (!)reign policy and national iefense has a way of generating into a welt~r of empty stogans. This is all the more true in times of relative international stability. The substantive issues.may appear to ch11nge fr.om one election to the next, but the inflated claims and -the rhetorical hyperbole are not at international commuritty. I don't mean to suggest that there are no real differences between the two candidates in matters of foreign policy, but the differences will very seldom be reflected in two distinctive and coherent progranis. This is perhaps inevitable because the range of genuine policy alternatives is uniquely limited in the field of foreign policy. These limitations have always existed by vivture of the constraints imposed by an international system which is l~rgely beyond our control. Campaign Issues Secretary Kissinger's \one-man show,\ (b) the alleged erosion .of traditional alliance relationships while pursuing an acceminodation with Moscow and Peking, (c) the \benign neglect\ shown toward the .problems of the · developing nations, and (d) the charge that American tregatiators haven't been \tough\ enough with the Russians. to my own way of thinking~ and I admit to a certain 'bias - there is more than a grain of truth Page5 'Litics · all unfamiliar. For both major candidate!! the final product is an Ul).likely blend of \hard-bearded realism,'' ''acceptanc.e of international responsibilities,'' \a defense second to none,\ etc. etc. It's easy to forget that presidential· elections are very seldom won or lost on the basis of candidates' positions on foreign policy. The old \primacy of foreign policy\ dictum lias never had a great deal of appeal for the American voting'· public. It should not be surprising, therefote, that the foreign policy debates · have assumed such a ritualistic qu11lity. Both candidates take it for granted that they are expected to demonstrate their competence in an area which many regard as just The acknowledged advantage of an incumbent president in addressing questions of foreign affairs is at least partly offset py the challenger'sfreedom to chose the most vulnerable \targets of opportunity.\ Jimmy Carter has appareqjly chosen to direct his attack at four or five aspects of the administration's foreign policy. (In fact, it might be more appropriate to regard these attacks as aimed primarily at the personal diplomacy of Henry Kissinger. Carter has expressed the view that President Ford in these charges. The principal danger for the Carter camp will be that of overstating the accusations. The charge of excessive secrecy, for example, should hardly he sur:prising; for those on the outside of the decision-making process, secrets are not nearly so much fun as for those who share in them. The idea . of excessive secrecy may conjure up images of Machiavellian plots but we shouldn't lose sight of the numerous occasions on which \quiet diplomacy\ - a much mote pleasing phrase ~ has led to notable successes in defusing volatile confrontations. It is true,. however, that an effective global diplomacy cannot be carried on . Johnson already comfortable in his office photo by phil a. pino a little bit mysterious. Ordinarily this \competence\ can be satisfactorily demonstrated by a liturgical recitation of our nation's noble purpo_ses irt the . \removed himself from the decision-making process in our country's foreign matters.\) The issues, such as they are, include the following: ' (a} :excessive secrecy m indefinitely by·· a single' individual. Crisis mangement and shuttle diplomacy can bring about some dramatic results, and Carter would be wise to avoid an indiscriminate attack on Kissinger's record of accomplish- ments. The problem is that we can't always be certain that international crises will arise in a neat and tidy sequence. When several issue~areas demand immediate attention at the same time it would be comforting to know that there will be someone with authority and responsibility left minding the store in the State . . . Department. A. Glimpse at the Electorate T~~~h~:·w~~=·· There is also some truth in the By CINDY SHEPPARD While the Presidential campaign shows every sign of heating. up, Schenectady seems. to remain remarkably passive and almost disinterested. In an attempt to learn more about .. --the community and its reaction to the -upcoming Presidential election, several students took to the bars in order to watch . the second Debate and converse. Wednesday night found us weaving from one dark, aging, solemn bar to the next, malcing otlr way along the 'endless bars that line Schenectady's ethnic neighborhoods. We took in nearly a dozen places, spanning the solidly Italian Van Vranken Avenue area to the Polish section nestled along Eastern A venue, to the \hardcore\ doWntown, Jay Street area. We were in search of 2 basic things: a bar with the Debate on and a clientele congenial enough to talk to us. The latter, unfortunately, came hard .. In general, people weere stubbornly private with their political views. Out small talk, meant to elicit their reactions - - any response -, to the Debate I issues I personalities I whatever, turned into a frustrating exercise in many cases. One woman finally voiced it as she fumbled: \Well you know what they say... you shouldn't discuss politics or religion.\ Others, in their indifference, appeared to be issuing some sort of statement on our electoral process, or, at least, what this year offers them. Others, however, were more than willing to share their views, presumably dtte to an hour-and-a- half of watching Carter and Ford match wits, a few good drafts, or just finding willirrg ears. Cynicism and apathy characterized \the talkers,\ too. A 60-ish patron in a plaid lumber jacket and cap, shrugged and noted, \The charge that the improvement in relations with the Soviet Union and with China, engineered primarily by Kissinger and former President Nixon, may have exacted an unnecessarily high price in terms of our relations with Western Europe and Japan. In most respects, however, this particular difficulty seems to have peaked by mid-1974. Washington has shown a certain amount of heavy-handedness in failing ·to consult regularly with our allies on matters of mutual concern, but today these questions have receded in importance and there is very little political capital to be made by stirring up old resentments. Scanning the ~ars The question of America'tl relations with the less-developed countries of the world is one which, in my mind, has far more serious implications for the future Democrats and Republicans are aU alike; they're all thieves.\ He launched into a monologue about · how \this country ain't like it used to be ... hack in the old days everyone · shared ... now, no one , would give you anything.\ After talking about dishonesty in politics, he praised the Republicans. His partisanship, he explained, comes from his desire to \go with the winner.\ He went so far as to call Republicans \millionaires\ and he repeatedly emphasized the importance of \§Uccess\ in securing his vote. Another Schenectady-he reflected local concerns in talking abou~ the election. As the owner of a downtown bar 1 restaurant and 17-year resident,. this Greek immigrant is primarily concerned with Schenectady's failing economy. With a disgusted wave of his hand, he gestured toward the .empty and vandalized fronts Which, at one time, housed bustling retail stores and restaurants. He noted that many of the businesses are suffering and he thinks that \people will benefit with ~ Democrat.'' Carter, he said would boost the local economy. Many ef the patrons, however, seemed indifferent to the needs of the area. While Carter \is often perceived as likely to revitalize cities and raise employment direction of U.S. foreign policy. It I eve Is, p ~ ople were is also a question that has become overwhelmingly indifferent. A emotionally loaded and for this bartender shrugged: \It's .horrible reason the Carter forces have to say, but I'm not going to vote. attempted to exploit it. There is a I can't vote in what I don't believe growing body of belief which , in ... altha ugh I would rather see holds that the bad old diplomacy Carter win, I'm not a true of \power politics\ among the supporter.\ major states has been overtaken Apathy characterized most of by the realities · of global the bars we visited. One of the interdependence, that we can no mote glib patrons related that he longer afford to ignore the had wanted to watch the Debate ' mounting claims of the Third but the other customers made hi~ World for a more equitable share turn it off. H~ observed that most of the .global product. There are of his buddies \felt Jhey could so.me solid ~rguments to. suppo~t learn more watching· foetball th1s contentwn but the evtdence lS games.\ obscured, once again, by the An anti-Southern tone was also rhetoric. We.ca:, rrobably expect common. There were repeated to hear a lot more about the need references to Carter's accent and to promote a more just \peanut background.\ One relationship between. the customer muttered during a lull in . industrialized countries of the the Debate: \Aw they should give \Notth\ and the developing 'em boxing gloves and put 'em in countries of the \South but it the ring ... then we'd know ... Ford would be surprising if the debate would win 'cause he was a were to give rise to any realistic football player and Carter was programs. !Jusy growing peanuts ..• \ On the question of America's The sentiments, while often \toughness\ in dealing with the anti-Carter, were not by any Russians, I'm convinced that means pro-Ford. Or maybe they th~re ~re ve'!' f~w an;as in which were indirectly. objective cntena can be found. Our adventure into the local This being the case, symbols bars proved disappointing. Tired becom~ far more .important in the bars filled with indifferent people, campatgn than facts and figures. the .Schenectady electorate. ,.One such . symbol, .. t~e . H~lsinki Agreement, provided an inviting target for Carter since there has been serious disillusionment in the West with Moscow's failure to relax its control over the flow of people and communications between the two halves of Europe. (Ford was prepared for this line of attack in his televised debate and it was apparently his zeal in defending the agreement that led him to make his intriguing remark about the \autonomy\ of Eastern Europe.) Here again, however, the campaign has forced the candidates to skip ov~r the bewildering details and focus on the symbols of detente - both positive and negative. Most voters, for example, would be bored to tears by the critics of the Ford-.Brezhnev strategic arms agreement (SALT 11) who pain- stakingly explain how we got a bum deal on \missile throw- weight.\ For campaign purposes the real acid test of hairy-chested toughness in standing up to the Russians is the willingness of the Ptesiden.t to grant an interview to Sol~henitsyn. Morality and Ideology A final consideration which may have some importance in the minds of voters is the question of \morality\ in foreign policy. Secretary Kissinger has been charged with conducting American diplomacy in a style which is both amoral and cold- blooded. Our political culture has tended to devalue the dictates ttf Realpolitik and there .J_s something vaguely .. un- American\ about such sentiments. For the most part, I · find Kissinger's world view as convincing as it is unpleasant. In a global system characterized by ideological divisions and the absence of any higher authority than that of the nation-state, the search for international justice is subordinated to the search for order. Carter's appeal, however, may strike a responsive chord. There is nothing utopian about the idea that nations can and should define their interests in such a way as to reflect compassion for human rights and a concern for maintaining high standards of integrity. After all, these virtues have a very real value in the international political market and they certainly constitute a critically important element of national power and influence. Carter has chatged that the foreign policy of the Ford administration has been one of objectionable style and inadequate substance. All things considered, this observation might be an apt commentary on the role of foreign policy and national defense issues in the presidential campaign.

·Page 6 ; - ~. ,_ CONCORJ)IENSIS, We..dnesday, Qct. 1'3. 1976 ,. - --~ . \\ :· . _' ·: - ~ . \ ·.: ' . .... . . .·• . \\'•' .... \' The problems of campus security often go ignored. Perhaps the greatest problem is that few people think there are any problems. All too often, people are blind to issues until a major incident sparks them to open their eyes and' realize the truth. Monday night's confrontation - and near catastrophe - must serve as the spark for a reassessment of the security situation. How is it that the intruder managed to get into a dorm that has a security guard on duty and is supposed to have its doors locked? Why hasn't security even questioned the girls who were involved? Furthermore, since attempted rape is a felony, why didn't Security bother to contact the Schenectady police? All these and other questions must ·be answered. We call for a fulrinvestigation of Monday night's incidents and fully support the North residents' petition for a comprehensive study of the Campus \Police.\ Next time we may not be as lucky to have a \near\ catastrophe ... The Arts: Proposals In his column \From the President's Desk\ last week President Bonner directed his attention to the recently ·submitted Arts Consultant Report. He stated that he is'. \personally committed to maintaining the forward movement; of our search for an appropriate resolution.\ We are pleased to see that the Arts have become the number one priority of this schooi. We are also deeply concerned about the present state of the Arts at Union College. We feel' that there are now some concrete steps that can be taken tQ: .bring the Department of the Arts to a level of prestige equal to that of the rest of the college. Firstly, the Provost, the Committee on Planning and Priorities and the faculty of the Department of the Arts should meet to articulate goals and set down a timetable that is an exact outline of what is to be done. In addition, the Arts should become Division Five of the college. This is an important step in recognizing the • importance of the Arts. at Union. This act would also lend credence to any search for personnel or funds that the c.ollege. may undertake. We are pleased to note that a group of admissions personnel have already visit~d the faculty of the Arts to express their willingness to actively recruit majors and students with active interests in the Arts. This is a major step in the right direction.' Tlie Consultants Report has mentioned several areas of the Arts where no faculty members exist at the present time: Art History, Dance and Public Speaking or Voice. Appropriate committees should begin the search for people to teach these subjects. There should be more faculty members in the Arts. The policy of zero faculty ·growth should be waived in this case. When the needs of the Arts have been defined, and an estimate of faculty size and scope of stud~nt participation have been determined, an architect should be hired to draw up preliminary plans for an Arts Complex. Present facilities are inadequate for present needs, and overcrowding will continue to occur if expansion is not achieved. We re-emphasize the need for a realistic timetable that will be met by all parties. It is essential that concrete steps be taken 1 soon to upgrade the Arts program. These suggestions stress the realization of an Arts program that both serve~ the needs of the college and is diverse in its appeal to majors, non- ~ajors and prospective students:. tll1ktn college • J concor01ens1s Editors-in-chief .................................................................. bowie lax mike rotondi News editors ...................................................................... matt brief glenn wolfson Features editor ....................................................... cindy sheppard Cultute editor· · · ·. . ................................. marshal\ wisoff, joe millet Sports editors ................. ., ........................................ charlie flanagan allyne price Copy editor... . ......................... susan finkelstein Business manager~ ......•... .- .......... .,, ................................ sheryl farber harris halpert Classifieds editor ............................................................. todd millet Subscriptions editor .................................................... harris halpert Layout editor, calendar .......... , ....................... .joe cappuccio Photography editor ..................................................... rich guardian Art editor ........................... ,.......................................... .lester weiss Poetry editor delanne stagerman . Staff this issue ........... , ................................. joe ades, lydia fogelman, brad keSsler, marjorie kohn, fran Iorber, marla lux, karen spar, audrey stein, su~ elcsfrom, barbara stern, eileen thomas nancy feldman, nancy murphy, ann markawitz, lisa baron Calendar ......................... ,.. .rich bernike~ CONCORDIENSIS is published every Wednesday by the student body of Union College, Gld Gym Hall, Schenectady, New York.; to which Postal Forms 3579 are directed. Publications Office: The Jewish World Publh:ations, 416 Smith ~t., Schenectady, N.Y. 12305 (370-5483). Entered in the Schenectady Post Office as ,Second Class Matter. Subscription Rate 35 cents per copy, SIO. a year delivered anywhere iri the United States. .. ''HEr! WJlJ. rau B-LlY~ GEIJJ\1 HeRE. V\.~'.'-C.G::' A/._,&1/)jji RE/IPY Ta yrAT-?TI \ , . . . f (. .. '. } ,-.- .. -.-- ' :,.· ~- ,. -- .' i' ·:~--~ PETITION TO THE PRESIDENT - ' We. the 'female residents at N otth College, do hereby petition the President of Union College to immediately, tho~ougniy, ~n~ publicly investigate the efficiency, quality, and competence of Union College Campus Police. In the early morning hours of October 12, 1976, an unwanted male visitor entered ai least two female students' rooms in North Coilege with an !!;pparent ·intention to commit rape. If a ·rape had been ~ornmitted we are sure that the College would be legally responsible for damages, if not morally responsible for the fate oL the female· resident. This is not t~e fifst incident where security was doing an inadequate job. President Bonner, this petition charges you with the res-ponsibility of undertaking an 1nvestigation of the Campus Pe'lice to determine the degree of safety secu~ity provides for the members of the· College community~ Let . us all participate, and determine which rumors are true, and those that are not, and set forth the necessary measures to correct the inadequacies. We would all like to share the quality of e:xistence without tear, that we thought the Union College Campus would provide for all of us.

·Page 6 CONCORDJENSIS, We.dnesday, Oct. 13, 1976 -------~ --------.-~~~~ ....... ~~----~------~ Do You Feel Secure? The problems of campus security often go 1gnored. Perhaps the greatest problem is that few people think there are any problems. All too often, people are blind to issues until a major incident sparks them to open their eyes and realize the truth. Monday night's confrontation - and near catastrophe - must serve as the spark for a reassessment of the security situation. How is it that the intruder managed to get into a dorm that has a security guard on duty and is supposed to have its doors locked? Why hasn't security even questioned the girls who were involved? Furthermore, since attempted rape is a felony, why didn't Security bother to contact the Schenectady police? All these and other questions must be answered. We call for a full investigation of Monday night's incidents and fully support the North residents' petition for a comprehensive study of the Campus \Police.\ Next time we may not be as lucky to have a \near\ catastrophe ... The Arts: Proposals In his column \From the President's Desk\ last week President Bonner directed his attention to the recently submitted Arts Consultant Report. He stated that he is· \personally committed to maintaining the forward movement' of our search for an appropriate resolution.\ We are pleased to see that the Arts have become the number' one priority of this school. We are also deeply concerned about the present state of the Arts at Union College. We feel' that there are now some concrete steps that can be taken to bring the Department of the Arts to a level of prestige equal to that of the rest of the college. Firstly, the Provost, the Committee on Planning and Priorities and the faculty of the Department of the Arts should meet to articulate goals and set down a timetable that is an exact outline of what is to be done. In addition, the Arts should become Division Five of the college. This is an important step in recognizing the importance of the Arts. at Union. This act would also lend credence to any search for personnel or funds that the college may undertake. W c are pleased to note that a group of admissions personnel have already visited the faculty of the Arts to express their willingness to acti~ely recruit majors and students with active interests in the Arts. This is a major step in the right direction.· I\he Consultants Report has mentioned several areas of the Arts where no faculty members exist at the present time: Art History. Dance and Public Speaking or Voice. Appropriate committees should begin the search for people to teach these subjects. There should be more faculty members in the Arts. I\he policy of zero faculty growth should be waived in this case. When the needs of the Arts have been defined, and an estimate of faculty size and scope of student participation have been determined, an architect should be hired to draw up preliminary plans for an Arts Complex. Present facilities are inadequate for present needs, and overcrowding will continue to occur if expansion is not achieved. We re-emphasize the need for a realistic timetable that will be met by all parties. It is essential that concrete steps be taken • soon to upgrade the Arts program. These suggestions stress the realization of an Arts program that both serves the needs of the college and is diverse in its appeal to majors, non- majors and prospective students. W1lon college J • concor01ens1s Ed1 tor~·m-chtef ...... . New~ editors f-eature; edttor .. Culture ednor .. Sports editor' Copy editor Bu;ine.,~ manager' Classthed; edt tor Sub~crtptrom edttor La)'<Jut ednnr. calendar Photograph) cdttor Art edttor .. Poetr) editor ............................. howte lax nuke rotondt .............. matt bnef glenn wolhon und) 'hcppard - - - mar;hall wtwff, joe millet charlu: llanaga r allyne pncc ,u,an lmkebtein . >her)llarber ham' halpert .... todd miller .... hams halpcrt ...... JOe ca ppuccio ....... m:h guardtan .le,tcr -..ct'>> delanne >tagcrman ~taft tht' ._,ue )OJ.: adc,, l)dta togclman. hrad ke>>lcr, marJortc kohn, Iran lorncr. marla tux. karen 'par. ,1 udre] '!em. sue eksfrom, barbara ,t,·rn. ctlccn thoma~ nancy feldman. nanq murph:.. ann marka\llli. It,a baron Calendar-- .rich bernrker CONCORDIENSIS is published ever) \\ ednesda) by the student body of l\nion College, Old Gym Hall, Schenectady, New York.; to which Postal f\orms 3579 are directed. PubUcations Office: The Jewish World Publications, 416 Smith ~1., Schenectady, N.Y. 12305 (370-5483). Entered in the Schenectady Post Office as Second Class Matter. Subscription Rate 35 cents per copy, $10. a year delivered an)where in the United States. L ''H~r:' /v:L yau BLI.Y-7 E£/Jt.J ;-/EHt.. ; ; r:' '-<.;:;;- AL/1'10;5T 1-<E/1,'\>}' TCI\ !. \'!;r: .. f.~-:' -j ,,. ( ( --, 'r z:;; ... ~, ' . ~ - - . PETITION TO THE PRESIDENT We the femal~ residents at North College, do hereby petition the President of Union College to immediately, thorougn 1 y, and publicly investigate the efficiency, quality, and competence of Union College Campus Police. In the early morning hours of October 12, 1976, an unwanted male visitor entered at least two female students' rooms in North College with an apparent intention to commit rape. If a rape had beencommitted we are sure that the College would be legally responsible for damages, if not morally responsible for the fate of the female resident. This is not the first incident where security was doing an inadequate job. President Bonner, this petition charges you with the responsibility of undertaking an investigation of the Campus Police to determine the degree of safety security provides for the members of the College community. Let us all participate, and determine which rumors are true, and those that are not, and set forth the necessary measures to correct the inadequacies. We would all like to share the quality of existence without fear, that we thought the Union College Campus would provide for all of us. • fraternity rebuttal To the Editors: Two weeks ago, Matt Brief wrote an article entitled, \ExFratetnities Fraternities, and FutuTe Fraternities\. Part of the article discussed his views of the D. U. problem. However, he went on to discuss some recent developments at Williams College. The purpose of this article is to clear up some errors that Ma~t stated in his article, and also to respond to his aricle in general. First of all, the !'lame of the \fraternity\ was wrong. It is not the Adelphic Literary Society of Williams College,. but rather, the Adelphic Literary Society of Williamstown. Second,. the Adelphic Literary Society of Williamstown asked the International Alpha Phi (we are not merely ... national\ as Mr. Brief reported} to assist them in their attempt to come back above ground (and not vice~versa as was reported). The International was hesitant at first, realizing that Williams had taken very firm and decisive action to remove the overwhelming power of the fraternities from the college. However; the Adelphic Literary Socie-ty was persistent, and finally, the International agreed to sent its traveling secretary to investigate the prospects of re~ opening the Williams chapter. He was at Williams for two days, and then went on to Union artd Hamilton to visit Alpha Del.ta Phi chapters located there. This is not the way Matt reported it, and I wanted to set the record straight. (the delay in replying was due to a time lag in checking out all the details). Matt went on to say that Williams had- conducted. investigations since the banning ·of fraternities, which revealed-that ex~brothers. were very apathetic, LETTERS and that only 7 percent of the students wanted fraternities to return. He suggested that possibly U n ion should do the same, that is, assess where fraternities fit into Union College. Well, if the fraternities are to be assessed as to where they fit in, shouldn't independents be assessed as to where they fit in! I don't think any such .investigation would he able to do either accurately, and I think that such suggestions are just taking advantage of the D. U. incident at Union, and correlating it with the total . incongruous environment of the fraternities at Williams College. Matt also expresses the view that fraternity brothers generatly put House priorities above college-oriented priorities (i.e., student government). The fact is, currently, 4 percent of the independent males cf Union College bold posts on committees Qf the Student Forum; 3.3 percent of the fraternity members of this campus are similiarly involved. Whether these figures hold true for the rest of student activities is anyone's guess since such satistics ate not readily available. However, let's not forget that fraternities are in themselves a student activity. ironically, when I first came to Union, the big issue against the fraternities was that they were too involved. Now, the complaint is that they are not involved enough. Sincerely, Peter Shore, '77 security? T<1 the Editors: This morning, October-12, 1976, at 3:40 A , M . yet another near tragedy occurred at Union College. ·~security\ or as it was renamed \Campus Police\ to show its new improved ability to serve and protect the students, failed again. An intruder entered a student's room on the fourth floor of North College, claimed to have a knife and a gun with implicit threats to use them. How did this· man get to the fourth floor and into a room! There is an alarm system on aU the entrances of the building and a student ,guard stationed at the main door. Did someone fail to reset the alarm or did it malfunction! A daily check is sup.pused to h¢ made of the alarms to ensure its working order. Why didn't it go off! .. The student guard was notified and a call was made to security. There was no immediate respons(l and to date, the women involved have not been questioned. Where was Security; behind the field house, asleep.! lt doesn't .seem that Union College considers the p()ssibility of rape as serious as the report of \loud music'' disturbing sotneone's sleep. Skimming through any security log bears this out. Wh~n will Union College see the protection and services of its Campus Police! Respectfully yours, JILL OtJUNG JOY SA W\\ER . KAREN PEARLMAN SARAH WHITE ELUDN MESSitE CAROLYN REIDER LEU,A SHAMEs· CAtHY SHlUVEU VICKI COtJCHEU .. S SUSAN O'N.EJt.L JANE LOWENTHAL l '

·I\ CONCORDIENSIS,· Wed~esday, Oct.13, 1976 Page 7 Images of a· College By ~1\iATT JJRIEF Contributing to the campus, certain values. Hence, the mad is . . . . _ . unselfishness toward athers, etc. paved for such things, good or ~hat d?es Un~o~ Coil~ge stand-· - are values that the- College ought bad, as pornography and private for. NommaUy, lt ts ded~cated to to try to promote in the clubs that restrict membership. a Liberal _ Arts educatron. Of _- 't _ · Problems arise when an h . . . ·· . commum y.. course t e .mstttutwn mu~t This raises a problem. Where individual's values conflict with P romote certam values that It . - 1 h· . 1 . c d·es of·· thos·e of -ano_ ther person on . . . - . . . are - e va ues or · o . holds dear. ~ntl-Semtttsm, b. h · . ·r un 1 · 00 Co_ liege . campus or clash with the values R . . d S _ . . . _ _ e avtor or . actsm, ... an c:xts~ _ ~re amo~g :Written Qown? If they are written of the instit1.1tion itself. Other those values the t.nstltutwn should d . . n . tt inl the distribution of campuses have experienced these naturally ant:l quite .properly want thow 'ce ad y · · e 'th er . problems. Last year Cornell was tO abolish Within fhe eommuoitV.' ·.· .dese Cd() .es IS'd· lyn Ire· ad · · · w1 esprea nor wt e _ . . . torn apart when hundreds of 0 .. ··. pt~zon: Taxes . By MATt BRIEF Last year the Tax Committee. ended the year in a budgetary deficit. Jn part it was due to an overestimation of tax. committee funds, but . blame must also be placed on those student activities who simply wen:n't responsible enough to control their budgets. At any rate, the \welfare state\ of the Student Activities Fund is over; clubs should be forced to raise some funds of their own and . engage in some sort of \matching funds\ system. This type of system was recommended by a special committee on stUdent .tax last year. No club should get free hando1,1ts. Union is a smaU campus trying to support a great number of student activities, we Blve to make that $150,000 . stretch. Thus, it_ becomes difficult 'for the . students and professors forced College to invoke sanctions or · Nugyen Caoky to leave the stage. ,punish when it is dealjng with Birth of a Nation, by D.W. vague rules· or a violation of Griffith, an acknowledged classic unwritten but \undet:stood\ of the pinema, has been values. The recent case of Delta denounced as a racist film by Upsilon is a perfect example of black campus groups across the this difficulty. nation. The pro b'lem of Another sticky problem also conflicting campus values is by no arises- when individuals' value~ means indigenous to Union. clash or disagree with the What then can Union College declared_ values of a Union do? If it feels that there are Col;lege Cotnmunity. Should the certain values to be promoted and . cotmnunity impose its values on accordingly certain behaviors to .·individuals and try to alter · be permitted or forbidden, it must his·; her behavior? If one- certainly set down some public 'individual's values or behavior code and distribute it widely. offends another individual, tnust Some may feel that freedom of the · offender be forbidden to the individual is sacrosanct, and maintain those values or be should be allowed to possess forbidden certain behaviors? whatever values or engage in any What .if one's behavior in no way types of behavior as long as affects another? What if the he/she doesn•t force them upon behavior is -private and the would- others. Excessive violence in be offendee is never even exposed sports, drunkeness, forms of to the purportedly offensive bigotry, and pornography:are all behavior? · present at Union and offend The Supreme Court (even the various members of the present one) has ruled repeatedly community. The Institution owes that as long as resulting behavior the community a public position is not imposed on other people, on its values and the values .or individuals are frc;:e to possess rights those individuals within the system may have . about tenure ... FROM THE PRESID'ENT' S DESK Few questions at Union College are as much debated, or so often misunderstood, as how faculty members are reappointed or given tenure at the College. Students, it is often said, play little or no role in the process. R.easearch and publication, say others, are valued more highly than good teaching, which is the raison d'etre of a faculty in a small undergraduate college. Still others claim that politics, or the dynamics of faculty relations, plays a part in decision-making affecting junior faculty. None of these charges ·is true of the procedures governing tenure and reappointment as a whole at Union, whatever the merits of a given decision at the College. It is the job of the President and Provost to test the procedures continually, to raise questions constantly concerning individual cases, and to attest to the Trustees of the College that. rules of fairness and equity - aimed at producing the strongest and ablest faculty possible for the 1980's and 1990's - have governed the peer process by which Union's teacher-scholars recommend colleagues for retention. It is my own view after more than two years at Union that tenure and reappointment are taken enormously seriously at this College. The faculty devotes an extraordinary amount of time to th~~e deliberations and do a very conscientious job. As a result, the unusual, almost unique, system of determining a faculty member's \tenurability\ at Union is among the best organized, most thorough, and flexible I have seen anywhere. Standards are high but not inflexibly so. Teaching is clearly the most import;mt consideration in all tenure pr · reapp~intment . decisions. but the responsible committees look also for evidence of scholarly potential that. will assure long-term teaching strength. We seek essentially a faculty of dynamic teacher-scholars, deeply committed to teaching and students, nourished intellectually by scholarly interests, and also involved in the common life of this campus community. Every such difficult decision, agonizing for those who must make it and often heartrending for those who are rejected, represents at projected salary rates a commitment of as much as three-qua terstcollege does for, more than anything else, it determines irrevocably the kind of college Union will be in 1985 and 1995. Students play a critical part in these decisions. They sit on the . Committee on Faculty which determines basic sta,ndards · and policies for all such future decisions. They are interviewed confidentially and carefully by the ad hot: committees which investigate a faculty member's qualifications for tenurability. They · are invited to submit private statements, pro and con, about the teaching and other qualities of a faculty member being considered for tenure. They are free to submit further evidence or raise questions once a decision is made. Also, student trustees sit as full voting members of the J;Joard of Trustees and its Committee on Academic Affairs which has ultimate authority in all college matters. As many of us know who have ·taken part in these deliberations, student views can and do have a sharp impact on these important decisions of the College. It is a major concern of mine that information about the College's procedures and practices in awarding tenure and reappointment be widely disseminated across the c1,tmpus. Students, as well as faculty, mUst understand the process and the procedures if we are to avoid the annual controversies about individual cases. It is true, of course, . that the need to protect confidentiality of some information often conflicts directly with the College's desire to see the process and resulting decisions as widely validated and acceapted as possible. No college, its faculty or leaders, wishes to appear as less than open, honest, and trustworthy in so crucial an area for the institution. But it is sometimes impossible to reveal the whole record on which decisions are based without betraying confidences or doing perhaps irreparable harm to the reputation of a faculty colleague. So it is trust that is needed now on all sides - among· faculty, students, and administrators - to assure that our common decisions, once passed through procedUres that are understood and held to be valid, are seen for what they are: the very best efforts we can make, in the face of human frailty and imperfection, to build continuing excellence into the future of this College. Ruger J. Mmlll. etas& of '55

.• 1 ! ., I I , I ! CONCORDIENSIS, Wednesday, Oct. 13, 1976 Page 7 lm_ages of a College By_ MATT BRIEF What does Union CoHege stand for? Nominally. it is dedicated to a Liberal Arts education. Of course the institution must promote certain values that it holds dear. Anti-Semitism, Racism, and Sexism are among those values the institution should naturaHy and quite properly want to abolish within the comm.uHitv. · Taxes By MATT BRIEF Last year the Tax Committee ended the year in a budgetary deficit. In part it was due to an overestimation of tax committee funds, but blame must also be placed on those student activities who simply weren't responsible enough to control their budgets. At any rate, the \welfare state\ of the Student Activities Fund is over; clubs should be forced to raise some funds of their own and . engage in some sort of \matching funds\ system. This type of system was recommended by a special committee on student tax last year. No club should get free handouts. Union Is a small campus trying to support a great number of student activities, we !:7ive to make that $150,000 stretch. disturbance _system To the editors: '¥ ou may know this mechanism as the fire alarm system of West College. What prompted the writing of this letter was a fire drill at 3; 15 a.m. the morning of Oct. 7. I'm n()t against alarm ~>ystems, flre <frills or any other such thing designed to save my life. but things can go a little bit too far - 4 false alarms in less than 2 weeks. It seems to nte that the sensivity of the detectors should be known and that all pertinent information should be gathered and studied before a system would be installed. This would, or shQuld, have eliminated almost all possibility of even one, no less 4, false alarms to occur. As I understand it the system has already been adjusted once, with apparently little success. Now come on guys! Is the system that complicated? I seriously doubt it! Anotherdistutbing eccurrence with this systemhasoccurred in South. As 1 understand it, the en· · tire dorm has been fined $1,000 for damages to their system. I've also heard talk of a $500 fine to the members of West for damage to the main display panel. First of all, the panel is of extremely 11imsy construction and cheap materials. Any one with a brain would realize tllat sooner or later. someone, drunk, stoned, high, or whatever, is going to take a shot at the thing. Well, somebody did and we now know the results. A solution would be a steel cage around the flimsy panel or a control panel that can take it. Second, why fine the mertlbers of the dorm. That's stupid! Chances . Contributing to the campus, unselfishness toward others, etc. ate values that the Coltege ought to try to promote in the community. This raises a problem. Where aFe the values or codes of behavior for Union College written down? If they are wriuen down, certainly the distribution of these codes is neither widespuead nor widely read. Thus, it becomes difficult for the College to invoke sanctions or punish when it is dealing with vague rules or a violation of unwritten but \understood\ values. The recent case of Delta UpsHon is a perfect example of this difficulty. Another sticky problem also arises when individuals' values clash or disagree with the declarecl values of a Union College Community. Should the community impose its values on individuals and try to alter his/her behavior? If one individual's values or behavior offends another individual, must the offender be forbidden to maintain those values or be forbidden certain behaviors? What if one's behavior in no way affects another'? What if the behavior is private and the would- be offendee is never even exposed to the purportedly offensive behavior? The Supreme Court (even the present one) has ruled repeatedly that as long as resulting behavior is not imposed on other people, individuals are free to possess are a p~;rson tsnot likely to break something which may save his {her} life, there(_ore, it seems that ~omeone else other than a dorm member broke the panel. rm not alone in my opinions. Talks with other members of the dorm have for the most part been in total agreement with me. Something's wrong somewhere and we (the dorm) would like it fixed. One of these days it's going to ''cry wolf' once too often, people are going to ignore the · alarm and something very unpleasant may be the result. Think about it (but not too long} and then fix it!!! Michael A. Haase fox talent 'J o tbe editors~ l would like to congratulate the people at Fox House for organizing their FOX HOUSE T ALEN1 SHOW. Such an event not only provides an evening's entert.ainrnent for a lot of people. but also hetp.s get students together, enjoying each other's company. Although not widely admitted to, most Union students are great people and easy to get alo11g with. The .problem in promoting a more congenial and relaxed atmosphere among students has been a dearth of informal campus events drawing kids together fer an evening (or aftenloon) Qf low.:key fun. We go to concerts with our friends and when we walk into a dance or a party we immediately lMk for a farililiar face. But at the Fox !-louse Taletlt Show kids were able to walk in alone and feel at ease. And while cracking up at certain values. Hence, the road is paved for such things, good or bad, as pornography and private clubs that restrict membership. Problems arise when an individual's values conflict with those of another person on . campus or clash with the values of the instit1:1tion itself. Other campuses have experienced these pmblems. Last year Cornell was torn apart when hundreds of stl:lden,ts and professors forced Nugyen Caoky to leave the stage. Birtb of a Nation, by D.W. Griffith, an acknowledged classic of the cinema, has been denounced as a racist film by black campus groups across the nat ion. The problem of conflicting campus values is by no means indigenous to Union. What theR can Union CoHege do? If it feels that there are certain values to be promoted and accordingly certain behaviors to be permitted or forbidden, it must certainly set down some public code and distrib1:1te it widely. Some may feel that freedom of the individual is sacrosanct, and should be allowed to possess whatever values or engage in any types of behavior as long as hejshe doesn't force them upon others. Excessive violence in sports, drunkeness, forms of bigotry, and pornography are all present at Union and offend various members of the community. The institution owes the community a public position on its values and the values .or rights those individuals within the system may have. the antics of Charlie Flanagan or marveling at the acrobatics · Andrea (Comaneci) Fink you might just .say hi to the \strapger\ .next to you. Good job Fox House! And a special ovation to Carlos Joe Zolner who has been helping create this atmosphere at Union for two years. Paul Siegel '77 let us swim Dear Sirs, Last Saturday. October 2. 1 wished to go swimming in .. Foot Pool'.. in Alumni Gym. As I entered the Gicl's Locker Room I was told that the pool was closed because of ••the footba:ll game.\ I was aghast because 1 knew that the schedule for Saturday was 12- 4 and at that time it was only 1:35. I was barred from further entrance into the locker tooms and was told to leave. I wish to complain that this is grossly unjust and seems to be. an example of male sports that dominate the activities of Union College. Why is it that no one is allowed to swim during a football game? l hope that in the future. · \Foot Pool\ will be open for use while a game is in progress. I realize that football is rising in popularity due to the addition of Thomas Cahill to the {J nion College Athletic Staff, but the students who attend Union are also important to the reputation of this college. The undersigned support this letter and are· equally indignant over the case cited. Ann D. Markowitz '77 Lydia Godwin '76 Nancy Murphy '77 about tenure ... FROM THE PRESIDENT'S DESK Few questions at Union College are as m1:1ch debated, or so often mist~nderstood, as how faculty members are reappointed or given tenure at the College. Students, it is often said, play little or no role in the process. Reasearch and publication, say others, are valued more highly than good teaching, which is the raison d'etre of a faculty in a small undergraduate college. Still others claim that politics, or the dynamics of faculty relations, plays a part in decision-making affecting junior faculty. None of these charges is true of the procedures governing tenure and reappointment as a whole at Union, whatever the merits of a given decision at the College. It is the job of the President and Provost to test the procedures continually, to raise questions constantly concerning individual cases, and to attest to the Trustees of the College that rules of fairness and equity aimed at producing the strongest and ablest faculty possible for the 19~0's and 1990's ~ have governed the peer process by which Union\s teacher-scholars recommend colleagues for retention. It is my own view after more than two years at Union that tenure and reappointment are taken enormously seriously at this College. The faculty devotes an extraordinary amount of time to the~e deliberations and do a very conscientious job. As a result, the unusual, almost unique, system of determining a faculty member\s \tetmrability\ at Union is among the best organized, most thorough, and flexible I have seen anywhere. Standards are high but not inflexibly so. Teaching is clearly the most important consideration in all tenure or · reappoi~:!_tment decisions. hut the responsible committees look also for evidence of scholarly potential that will assure long-term teaching strength. We seek essentially a faculty of dynamic teacher-scholars, deeply committed to teaching and students, nourished intellectually by scholarly interests, and also involved in the common life of this campus community. Every such difficult decision, agonizing for those who must make it and often heartrending for those who are rejected, represents at projected salary rates a commitment of as much as three-4ua terstcollege does for, more than anything else, it determines irrevocably the kind of college Union will b~ in 1985 and 1995. Students play a critical part in these decisions. They sit on the Committee on Faculty which determines basic standards and policies for all such future decisions. They are interviewed confidentially and carefully by the ad hoc committees v.hich investigate a faculty member's LjUalifications for tenurahility. I he) · are invited to submit pnvate statements, pro and con. about the teaching and other qualities of a faculty member being considered for tenure. They are free to submit further evidence or rai:-.e questions once a decision is made. Also, student trustees sit as iull voting members of the Board of Trustees and its Committee on Academic Affairs which has ultimate authorit; in all college matters. As many of us know who have taken part in these deliberations, student views can and do have a sharp impact on these important decisions of the College. It is a major concern of mine that information about the College's procedures and practices in awarding tenure and reappointment be widely disseminated across the campus. Students, as well as faculty, must understand the process and the procedures if we are to avoid the annual controversies about individual cases. It is true, of course, . that the need to protect confidentiality of some information often conflicts directly with the College's desire to see the process and resulting decisions as widely validated and acceapted as possible. No college, its faculty or leaders, wishes to appear as less than open, honest, and trustworthy in so crucial an area for the institution. But it is sometimes impossible to reveal the whole record on which decisions are based without betraying confidences or doing perhaps irreparable harm to the reputation of a faculty colleague. So it is trust that is needed now on all sides among faculty, students, and administrators to assure that our common decisions, once passed through procedures that are understood and held to be valid, are seen for what they are: the very best efforts we can make, in the face of human frailty and imperfection. to build continuing excellence into the future of this College. progress or regress? Pear Editors, · I have just finished reading a variety of articles and letters in the September 29 Concordiensis concerning the expulsion of OU. I think most of your writers have missed rhe real issues. The issues. are not how many people were bothered, whether the Dean of Students is for or against fraternities, whether all DUs are bad guys who often do had things, whether other men in other fraternities are worse, or even whether fraternities have the right to practice mass hooliganism. The is_sue is, quite ~ill'iply, whether Union College will tolerate racial oNetigious bigotry in any form. lf not, the Brothers of DU should either respond to the bigotry charges, or be thankful that far more stringent disciplinary action was not taken. When I gmduated from Union, we had few blacks. and the fraternities were almost entirely religious!)' segregated. Union has come a long way since then, and we must not tolerate even the smallest step backward. To whatever extent DU (which asked to be judged as a group) demonstrated anti-semitic or r.acist behavior, I heartily applaud Dean Smith's action. I urge stronger action if there arc other incidents by any group or individual. Roger J. Merrill Class of '55

/ . ~ < . PageS CONCORDTENSIS, Weanesday~ Oc~. 13, 197~ arttJ ·ltu··r~ :, .· ' . . •. ' . \ .\\\ Sebasti·an Revives By MARSHALL WISOFF Memories Undoubtedly, John Sebastian's appearance last Saturday evening in Memorial Chapel stirred memories of yesteryear in the minds of Union College students. Like many popular musicians, Mr. Sebastian broke away from the success of an established band to pursue a per.sonal career in records and concert tours. But the music of the last decade continues to dominate his performance. Ten years ago I was a \junior\ disk jockey at a summer camp radio station near Lenox, Massachusetts. The American rnuiic scene captured the smiles of the Pt:psi generation; it was a time for songs of sunny summer days, fresh faces, and foot-tapping melodies. Two groups climbed to top the nation's music charts: The Mamas and Papas and The Lovin' Spoonful. Cass Elliot emerged as the most vocal Mama, an enprmeus talent who filled the air with sharp sounds backed by her gmup's tight vocal harmony lines. The man who made _ the Spoonful work so well lacked Mama Cass' physical prominence. From behind his tortoise shell glasses, (he later changed to the familiar wire rims) John Sebastian churned out some of the mid- sixties best-known melodies. His trademark was a boyish smile, an ;jj image he still projects ten years later. The original Lovin' Spoonful . broke up as Richard Nixon came to power, lending credence to Richard Robinson's observation that \The Lovin' Spoonful were a slowly melting innocence, the consciousness of one last good time before the rumbling thunder and black storm clouds that put out the best lit fire.\ Sebastian struck out on his -,wn in 1970 and he has released several albums since, including The Fot•r of Us, Real Live Sebastian,. and Welcome Back. Saturday night past, Mr. Sebastian proved himself to be a gifted musician. He baeked the fine guitar work for which he is noted with a turn at the keyboard and a rousing harmonica solo which brought the audience to its feet. Richard Bell, who played with Mr. Sebastian on the Welcome Back album, lent some good piano accompaniment. After some minor technical problems at the outset, -Mr. Sebastian launched into a Nashville sound with \Mobile Line,\ only to lose the crowd's interest with the commercialized \Welcome Back\ from the popular television series. It became obvious that the audience wanted some Karen Manno. aformer Union Student who hopes to return in January, will sing her own songs at both the regular Thursday Cabaret and a special Homecoming Cabaret ori Saturday. Iine~(le u ...... . Suns will rise Though never my mood, · Grass will grow Though my soul cannot Flowers shall bloom Though my spirit shall never, Fields shall by winds be moved But never again my heart. -J.C. Contest: New York Poetry Forum Awards - for details write Dorthea Neale, Director, 104 2nd Ave., Apt. 18, NYC 10003. Submissions deadline Nov. 15. Send your poems to be printed (or questions and comments) to liox 1738. Deadline is the Friday before Thursday or publication. We want to hear from you! r&?.A Restaurant ·fr Caterers, Inc. Vf\) 501 Hattie St., Schenectady, N.Y. 12308 K II t SPECIALS . e y 5 Tues. night- Draft Beer 20¢ 9·1; Pitchers $1.50 (518) 346-50 59 Thurs. Night- Ladies Drinks, t;i Price, 9-1 . HAPPY HOUR DAILY 4·6 PM 20¢ off liquor 10¢ off beer Lunch Served Every Day Sandwiches Every Night ' hits, so Mr. Sebastian obliged with \Younger Girl,'' \Daydream and \Did You Ever Have to Make Up Your Mind?~\ In between, he continued to plug his latest album with \Hideaway \She'.s Funny,\ and \I Needed Her Most When I Told Her to Go.\ His encore concluded with an old standby, \Darling Be Home Soon.\ Thinking back to Saturday, it seems that John Sebastian cannot shake the Lovin' Spoohful from his act. Then again, he might not want to. His more recent lyric attempts are poor, and although his melodies may be sweet and ·catchy, his songs lack substance. The evening in the Chapel was •. a satisfying listening experience for many, but it was also a reminder of a great pep artist of the sixties who has faded in the· complexity of the seventies. PaFt of the audience was probably looking past Sebastian to the Jackson Brown/Orleans concert the next night at R.P.I. Perhaps the most amusing part of the evening's. entertainment · was proviaed by some people in the back of the hall who pleaded for a rendition of \Summer in the City.\ Maybe they just wanted to escape the first chill blasts of Schenectady autumn howling outside with a little memory of yesterday. John Sebastian sang his hits at Memorial Chapel. Ellen ... Mel/wayne could·not,appetJ~ du~ tp bad tveather. ' Culinary Tastes . The Cranberry Bog- ·. by Nancy Feldman \Why cranberryT you might But be careful not to .overindulge, ask. If you've ever dined at the for the entree is still to come. Cr~J,nbl;!rry Bog, the answer is The food arrived after a obvious. One of the treats which relatively long wait, It Was good, the Cranberry Bog offers is its . yet not deserving of rave reviews .. cranberry bread. Although not The broiled filet of sole was too warmed, it is quite fresh and very fishy tasting and had a few tasty. unnecessary bones, The lemon, Aside fFom cranberry bread, however, seemed to adequately the menu bffers a wide ar.ray of cover this unpleasant tas~e. The • dishes. There is something for roast beef was served as ordered, everyone - meat, fish, poultry but it was a little too fatty. The and veal. To start with, there is a veal piccata was tender, and the salad bar, which is available to l>aked chicken was moist, as it everyone upon ordering an entree. should be. These dishes ranged The bar is comprised of a bowl of from $4.95 for the chicken to lettuce, a tray of carrot sticks, $7.50 for the roast beef. celery sticks, onions and Each person was entitled to a tomato!!s. l>aked potato served with either In addition to the various types whipped butter or sour cream. of dressings, there are various The wine list consisted primarily complements: grated cheese, corn f>f domestic wines and had a very relish and bacon bits. One is also poor selection of imports. The free to indulge in the cranberry fine bodied beaujoleis, at $6.75 a bread or soup located at the bar. hottle, was V!:IY good. 1 I ··11r' .•: .~ s • Wolfe. Rd., Colonie Although the food was pleasant, the atmosphere was not conducive to an ~njoyable dinner., The dining room lacks any sort of intimacy because of its large size and the presence of the kitchen in full exposure to the diners. 111 addition, the noise level. is q:uite high. The unnerving atmosphere also could be attributed to the continual breaking of dishes in the kitchen and by the busboys. Our busboy was not informed as to . how to execute his job· properly. Despite his· friendliness, he had a tendency to spill water and · coffee while pouring and didn't know to wipe the table before serving dessert. Perhaps the busboy was new and the breaking of dishes unusuaL I do hope that is the case, for the restaurant with its diverse menu has 'what is necessary for a pleasant dinn~r •. , THIS WE~KI THE MUSIC OF- INTELLECTUAL CABARET Karen Manno, Nancy Levinthal and Becky White -ALSO-. JOE Zolner M.C. -. JOSEPH MILLETT THURSDAY AT 9:00 AND 11:00 P.M. SPECIAL HOMECOMING SHOWS I SATURDAY AT 9:00 AND 11:00 P.M. \Is There A Role for Athl~tics In An Intellectual Community?\ WITH NED HARKNESS, FRANK CARLILE~ CHARLIE FLANIGAN OCT. 18 ... 8:30 P ;M. STRAUSS LOUNGE AND DON'T FORGET GAME NIGHTS: TUESDAYS

.. was not inner., of size hen in rs. 111 q:uite the in sboys. as 'job· water and table s new dishes is the ith its is •.. CQNCORDIENSIS. W,ednes~(ly; Oct .. 13 .• 1'976 ' . . Page9 . . . A(Jmini!iltf.atiwe· .-nil Engineering Sys(eni Colio.qpiurn,. Dr. H. Simon, Dt. :R.IC.. · Mellon will speak··on his curt.ent· research on · the simulati-<in of human understandiii.g of natural language instnactions. 3:30 p.m., S0c. Sci. 11 5. Sigma Xi Ledllre: Dr. H. Simon, Dr. RIC.. Mellon will lecture on \Can There. be a Theory of Scientific Discovery?\ 8:00 p.m .. , Rm. S.S. 016. \Art Print S:ale\ - 10:00 a.m. ~ 5:00 p.m.... in the College · Center Lobby. Fri., .O~t. ·ws w'onn~n's V:olley.b.~ll ..- Union vs. Albany, AW~Y:. 6:)0; p.m. ,. Women's Tennis - Union vs. \s·kic.imove ·Away. 3:.oo·p.m. Dean Roy Steinheiiner, · of Washington & Lee Law School, will be available for interviews at Prof. Board's office. 9-ll a,rn. Whitaker Memorial Dedication: 11:30 a.m. South College. Lecture: \Intelligent Life In the Universe?\ ~ by Prof. K. Schiek, ·1 :30 p.rn., Rm. S.S. 016. The Niskayuna Folk Culture ClUb presents \Steve Cormier in Concert,\ in the New Cafeteria at Niskayuna H.S. 1626 Balltown Rd., at 8:00 p.m. ... \, Art Print Sale 10:00 a.m.-5:00 p.m, in the College Center Lobby. Open Skating 8:30-10 p.m. Achilles Rink. Coach Scanlon is offering a two week mini-conditioning course emphasizing on agility and cardio-vascular development. Starting Friday Oct. 15, meeting daily from 5:15 to 5:4?. Sat., Oet. I 8 calenoar· Film Committee presents - Women's Volleyball, Union vs. \Odd Couple\ 7, 9, 11 p.m., Adirondack at SCCC, Away, 6:00 SSOl6. p.m. Cabaret, 9, & Carnegie, Cabaret. II Sun., Oet. I 7· p.m., Early .Bird Breakfast 8 a.m. at Dutch Hollow Restaurant. \ Organ Recital, Professor HQgh Alan Wilson, 10:30 a.m. Women 's Swimming, Union vs. Williams, Away. 7:00 p.m. Intellectual Cabaret- \Is there A Role For Athletics In the Intellectual Community?\ - Ned Harkness., Charlie Flanagan, Frank Carlile, 8:30 p.m., Strauss Lounge. Tues., Oct. ~ 9 Varisty Football, Union vs. Memorial Chapel. R.P.I.. 1:30 p.m., Alexander Interfaith Chapel Service, 10:30 NIIIIIPIIMR.-.111•••••·-·IIIIIIIJII.,.IJIIII~IJIIIIIII···· field. a.m. Memorial Chapel. .i.V. Footb.-11, Union vs. Film Committee presents - Open Skating 8:30-10 p.m., Achilles Rink . ~ ©11 fLU t?U <® (g~@~@ 27 Union Street (corn.er_of ;:Union & ' ) Barrett, near tile A & p· · - . ' 374--3430 Fri,endly People, Friendly Prices LARGE· SELECTION OF. • ROCK • FOLK • CLASSICAL • COUNTRY • JAZZ Open 9 to 9 Mon-Sat 11-6 Sun. Wi_lliams, Away. 2:00 p.m. \Odd Couple,\ 7, 9, II p.m., Rm Women's· Field Hockey, Un~on. SS 016. vs. Potsdam, I 0:30 •a.m., Garis Film: \Jane Eyre\ 7:30 p.m. ~ Field. Schact Fine Arts Center, Russell Varsity Soccer, Union vs. Sage College,. Troy. 50 cents. R,P.l., 11:00 a.m., Daley Field. A live 'interview with Prof. Bill J.V. Soccer, Union vs. R.P.l., Daniels, 7;30 p.m., about the 12:30 p.m. Garis Field. political campaign on WRUC Crosso.Country, Union vs. 90.9 FM. R.P.l., 12:00 p.m., at Home. Alumni Council Meeting, 8:30 a.m. Girting Center. - Moo., Oet. I 8 Roundtable Discussion - The New American Politics: Election '76. ll a.m.-12 noon SS016. . President's Reception - 4:30- W , F\ ld H k u · n 5:30 p.m. Jackson's Garden NomAend s leA oc 3~0y0, nlo (R · ·H 1 H ) vs. . ams, way. . p.m. am: a e ouse . . F • ·s· k t·· ·E.- ·h'b\ta'on and Women's Tennis,, Umon vs. 1gure a mg x 1 1 . Alb · A 3 15 Hockey Clinic 5:00p.m., Achilles any, way. : · p.m. Rink. • 'llrne IS • tJiffer~llt ~~ . · .P.aEPARE FOR: . ·. MCAT• DAT•::LSAT• SAT GRE • GMAT:. OCAT·• C.PAT • VAT Over 38 ye.rs of expeftencUndsuc:cess. Small classes. Vol- Uminous home stUdY materlaits. courses that are constantly up(fatecl. Centers open day_s r. weekends all ynr. Complete u.,. facilitieS for review of class. lessons and for use of silpple~MntarY materials. Make-ups for missed lessons at . our c.nten. _ · · . . . · . - -·E·CFMG • FLEX. _ NAT'L MEDICAL & DENTAL BOARDS 'Flexible :Programs I. Hours Our llfo~ range of fii'OIJI'&ms jwovkles an umbrella,of lasting know- how that .EJilatiles \s to oHer-lhli best preparation available. flirther improving tile Individual Cllllrse yOII'¥11 selected. · • · . . ·. JM' -fl Bklyn 212-336-5300 . Manttattan_. 212. ~ .. -. -·~- . . · . c Long lelai'KL.,1.6-538-45s5 . . a . N New J~y..Jf) .... 1. ·254- .. 16 ... - EQUCATIOHALCENTERLTD Outside .ttv state l1niY · 1e1s E ta.st ilklwn CALL 800 221. 1 840· . . NY- 112 \ ToiJ fi'M , •. ., . . . , l'IST PREPARATlON · . · ~ .. II$~· . · SP£CIAUSTSSSNCE'1938 . . ' . . ' . . . . \ MASTERS IN BUSINESS ADMINISTRATION PROGRAM RECRUITING VISITATION ' Syro(use University The School of Management of Syracuse University, Syracuse, New York, will be interviewing interested applicants for the Masters in Business Administration Program on Tues., Nov. 2, 9 a.m.12 noon. For further information inquire at the Placement or Career Services office on your campus. Union vs. RP.I in Football on WRUC 90.9 FM. Band Party at Phi Sigma Kappa. 9:00 p.m. \Hudson Craft Fair\ 521 Union St., Hudson, N. Y.lO:OO a.m.-5 p.m., Call 828-1248; also 12:00 p.rn.-5 p.m., Oct. 17; Game Night - Every Tuesday night at Cabaret. The University - Community Symphony Orchestra joins the RPI Symphony Orchestra for a joint Performance at 8:30 p.m. in the Main Theatre, State Univ. Performing Arts Center. .RPl will host the Concert Sunday, Oct. 17, at 7:00 p.m., in the Bedford Auditorium, Troy. For Info call 4.57-8606 .. Garry Wills lectures every Tuesday night in SSOI6. Science Lecture Series at the Schenectady Museum presents \Thunderstorm Research\ - by Prof. Bernard Vonnegut of SUNY at Albany. Members/free, Non-membersf$1.00, 8 p.m. Call 372-3386. Wed., Oet. 20 Varsity Soccer, Union vs . Colgate, Away. 3:00 p.m. J.V. Soccer, Union vs. Siena, Away, 3:30 p.m. Cross Country, Union vs. Middlebury, at Union 4:00 p.m. Women's Field Hockey, Union vs. Vassar, 4:00 p.m., Home Courts. Women's Tennis, Union vs. Vassar, 4 p.m., Alexander Field. Schenectady County Public Libarary presents \Vocational Decision Making.\ - 7:30 p.m. Film Committee Presents \To Have and Have Not\ ~ 7, 9, II p.m. SSOI6. Lecture: \The Necessity of Fission Power,\ Dr. Hans A. Bethe, 8:30 p.m., Memorial Chapel. - fERRO•s PHARMACY closest to eampus ''STUDENT . DISCOUNT .J75Naetlt. m.-.t. 34M'JIJ

Page 10 CO NCO.· RDIENSIS~.·Wednltsd. ay., o. c(. I. 3, 1976 . .. . intruder rink Continued trom Page I has contacted the girls involved. A meeting planned for Tuesday night between Dolores Harris, assistant to the head of security, and the residents of North was canceled by Ms. Harris. · On Tuesday evening one of the girls called in a report to the Schenectady police. At that time Security had not yet contacted the police in any way. Continl!_ed fr«!m Page 2 fundraismg anves very successful. For instance, he related that the Schenectady businessman's drive was running at a low ebb; then the Rink generated much support. Goldstock's sporting goods store on Broadway provides a good exam pIe of the Rink's relationship with the community. Mr. Harkness observed that the growing enthusiasm generates money for the alumni fund as well as the entire college. . :The Classine.J~ Page..: of the New CONCoaDiENSiS is primarily a stUdent. se~vice; as such, ·aD) ' material submitted will be pubUshed FREE of charge. To insure that the 'Items submitted. are printed; all eopy MUST be in by Monday at 8:00 PM. Items to \be .repeatef IDUSt han the . number of runs speclRed. The Vnion Col~ge CONCORDJENSIS assumes ne» res;onsibi~ty for typographical·e...-ors, but will print a correction. If you w.ant a ride, OJ JGU llave something to sell, or you simply w~nt to se~ something of your own printed up in a major world ·publication, . . PLEASE, don't hesitate! This is a ·F,REE serviee~c so take ~tdv•nt~tge of it. lf)Gu, wish to submlt 1 material which conforms to tbe format ·of the Classifieds 0 A!'e. simply !'lliP it unde, the Coneo.-dy ~mee door (3rd floor C..-negle) or give to T:o~. Mill~r, 224 West · li.'i!llldltl The Provost has appointed an acl hoc committee to investigate the tenurability of Assistant Professor Helen Testroet, of the Department of Classics. Luckily, a description of the intruder is availablt: and reads as follows: male; :8-22 years old; dirty blond~: hair; Wtre glasses; mustache and light scraggly beard. When last seen, he was wearing mamon pants and a blue wool football jacket with white stripes on the shoulders. \It took time to know the full potential of the Rink,\ said Rich Solomon. He added that the Social Committee \doesn't really want to do more than two or three events in the Rink each year.\ He added that the Ri.nk is \generally bigger than what the Committee needs for its actiVities \because of the risk factor.\ Solomon explained that it is cheaper to have a concert in the Rink than in the Memorial Chapel, although the risk in the Rink is far greater. Unsuccessful ticket sales in the Rink would tesult in great losses. Attention Biology Major and I.D. ·Persons who are· in l! position' to contribute to the committee's' investigation are invited to submit statements or give their names .to the chairman, Professor Neal W. Allen, Department of History, Soci;~l.Sciences Butlding. All freshmen interested in taking pa~t in Student -Govemrnent Comfl}jttees,\ there will be a sigflup list in .Student Activities (to the righ_t of the .majlroom) on. Mrs. Marra's desk Don't complain ~ get involved. Any questions C<!ll Mi~hael Ganz at 3106 786. Anyone who has any information on the incident is requested to leave a report with Security. · ~UK~'S SU.P.ERMARKET· 130 EASTERN AVE. ·.SAM.:JOPM ··7DAYS FuU .be of dell. cold bell\ and IOda, produce IUld lfOCtrJ· Ace Card's & Gifts i7S JAY STREET SCHENECTADY 372 .. 200.1 . PAWPRINTS- . GORDON,FRASER IMAGES & MEMO BOARDS U•lon Pharmacy 600 Union st.. Men& Women Studei_at Neeeb 374-~ Biology Majors: organizational meeting for anyone. interested in jol.ning a New Biol11gy Club. Purpose: to pto~ide activities of the nature sugges¢~d· at the !list majors' meeting. Please note: freshmen are invited to take an active role. Ideas are more than . welcome.\ The meetipg will be held Tues., Oct. 19, 4 p.m., in SS 016. This meeting will be followed by the first speaker, Dr. Roman Vishniac. \The PENNY PINCHER QUALITY CLOTHES- LOW PRICES U:$ED BUT NOT ABUSED CURRENT STYLES Ull ALTAMONT AVE. (Entrance ~St.) Tuadaj - Saturday IO.S · Thutsda,\s tiD 9 Jt-.m. 356.2571 INN Erie ,BJvd.-Nott St. Schenectady. 370-7·151 ' Congratulations, ~'rein medieal sehooL Tues., Oct. I'· Roman Vishniac presents films of his photogr11phic . work in Biology, He has .photographed a. wide lr!lnge of subjects including ·I oceanagrapliic work at Woods Hole. He has worked for LIFE magazine as well !IS other major photographic journals. H:is work should be of interest to anyone, Sponsored. by, the Biology Club, he will be in SS 016 at 4:30 .p.m. WDF (WheiJ Diplomacy fails) is an organization of students, faculty and staff o_f . Un~on <;:ollege who e~oy military s1mulatton (WARGAMES). There will he an organi?;ational meeting for all those interested in Rm. 216 Carnegie on Monday, Oct. 18, at 7:30 p.m., or see Mike Haase, 420 West, at 346-9292. Mini Course - \Decision-Making_ and the Christian,'' October 7, 14, 21,. 9:00- 10:00 .p.m. at Sister Pat's residence, 8] 6 Union St., Tel: 346·21!98. The course will focus on decision-making and explore-- ways in which the Christian can approach . contemporary issues. Those who participate are encouraged to attend all three sessions. For more information, contact Sister Pat. . . UNION COLLEGE PHYSICS DEPARTME!'II.il' The Physics Department a~nounces a colloquium ~eries,. designed for the proverbial \intelligent layman,'' on cosmology, exotic stellar objects, and ·the search for extra-terrestrial life. For the Fall tenn th.e titles of'the topi~s. the speakers, 11nd the dates are: · 2, QUASARS - Monday. October\ 25 - Dr. •Alan Meltzer, Physics D~partment, RPI. . 3. THE BIG BANG THEORY OF THE ORIGIN'. OF THE UNIVERSE Monday, November .S - Dr. Ralph Alpher, G. E. R & D. 4. BLACK HOLES. - Monday, November · 22 - Dr. Hans Ohanian Physics Department, Union College. The Winter Term will include: I. COSMOLOGICAL MODELS - Dr. David Peak, Physics Department Union College. 2. HOW ASTRONOMERS GET THEIR DATA'- Dr. A.G.D. Philip, Physics Department, Union College.' 3. LIFE ON MARS? - Dr. Les Hull, Chemistry De.partment, Union Colleg~. 4. HOW TO COMMUNICATfi WITH EXTR~-TERRESTRIAL\ INTELLI- GENCES - Dr. Kenneth Schick, Physics Department, Union College. All Colloquia meet at 4:30 p.m. in the Science and Engineering Center (Room N303) and are preceded by a \coffee- CO<?kie\ social which st~rts at 4:00 p.m. in · Room N303. · Now,~ou pa»forit. That can be a very s€rious problem today, especially with we'll mail you literature which will give you a good overview of tuition costs climbing relentlessly. Yes. you can borroW. but by the scope of our operations. Why not write? We think you'll the time you enter practice those debts can be substantial. be interested in the possibilities. There is an alternative-an Armed Forces Health Profes· r---------· ---------, sions (AFHP) scholarshtp. Whether you're stud• ring to be a I Armed Forces Scholarships Z·CN-106( ~· I PO Box AF. Peona, IL 61614 I physician or a dentist, whether your goal is to become an Yes. 1 am interested m Armed Forces Health Professions Scholarship osteopath or an optometrist. it can pay your entire tuition and I opportunities I understand there is no obligation. I fees all through medical schooL It will also provide you with a lam especially interested in: substantial monthly allowance. In other words, if you qualify, I tJ Army 0 Air Force 0 Navy I one of those scholarships tan give you financialmdependence 0 Vetennaty\ 0 Psychotogy(PhDI• 0 Physician 0 Dental now. when you need it most I 0 Optometry I When you're ready to go into practice, an AFHP scholar· 1 Name SeK 0 M OF 1 ship will also have paved the way for you to start your career uffn?er highlhy fav?rable 1 cbircumsh tafnces. You 1 'II be a c~mmissioned I Address Phone 1. o 1cer in t e rru itary ranc o your se ectton rour practice I C11y State . Zip 1 THE BLOODMOBILE IS COMING Tu~ay, October 26 and Wednesday, October 27 Lifesaving (and·' timesaving) sppointmerits can be made at the Student Activities Office in Carnegie Hall, a few steps from the Mail Room. WATSON TRAVELLING FELLOWSHIPS Union College has agilliil been invited to nominate four candidates for Watson Fellowships. The awards ue intended to give new graduates a year abroad inimediately after graduatlon, and may be used for !lfiY purpose other than formal study hi a foreign univer.sity. All graduating Seniors 'are eligible for consideration· regardless of sex, age, tlationality, undergraduate program, and previous ex·perJence a-broad. Each Fellowship is worth S7i000 ($9,.5()0 for married students)• · 2. For sale: :beautiful lite blue ladies' brushed denim slacks, size junior 79 (J41hips). Cost $23 new: Never woFn. Will bargain, Also ~ooks for Psych 10 & Comp. Ed. 5G. Phone 374-3600: To D.H. ..- What happened Sat. nite? Call H.T.H .. Wanted: One 49mn filter. Call Rich. To W.H. - Wb.ere are You? Becky? Beclcy whl)? for info. call Tom 346-9973, Lester Wei5:l: Why do you bother illustrating the captions to your weekly cartoons? They never make any sense anyway. - The entire class of '77 (signatures available upon request) . Lester Weiss: Why do you bother illustrating ,the ca:ptions for yom: weekly cartoons? They never make any sense anyway. - The entire class of '78 (at,temJited sign!lctures available upon request), Lester Wii!IS: Why do you bother? You make no sense. - Your mother. MAS: How ca!l; I tell you?- DLM. Addendum to· this year's nickname list:. Lance is ni)\W officially \The Human Lance,\ whereas Joe Millett shall be known as simply, \Mo.\ The Humaa Lpce: thanks for slipping these aqonymous personals about Lester under the door. That way Lester won't know who wrl):te.them. - TAM. Q. Why dicl Lance cross the road? A: What? BiW /M w~mts Aegean experience with tender_ care. This is my first personal so please be gentle. All replies to Box 276. Hiya Wally! To Ruff, JA.. 'k tbe Turd: Thanks for the patience, understanding and forgiveness that got us through what could have been 11. fatal 48 hours. 1 love you.- CB 007, where are you? Your lasagne's waiting! - P.ussy Galore & Mrs. Monnapenny, Wendy: Y ot.Ir photo wallet has been found. Identify it at 422 South or after 10/18 at Security. Joanne: Good ·for you, Joanne; good for you! . Who Is SpacesiiiM Oh - 2nd floor Fox North. I Wanted: Hot weather, blue skies sunshine, crystal. cleat water, clean, whit~ ~ sanded isolated beaches. If available, contact Phil A. Harris Halpert: Your're a nice guy. - Union College. MSM: more tiiall eYer before. - HL\. BB: Happy biJrthllay! - SW. Happy birthday Arne: transients at the Park Place Hotel; belated birthdays to to Phil A. Pino. will be waiting for you. You'll step Into it and know that the f:nrolled at I School) ____ _ challenges you\ll meet will be solely medical ones and profes· 1 1 sionally.stimulating. To graduate In Degtee'~--'----- 1 (month. year) , 1 There will also be opportunity for further study The \Velennal\1 no! available m Nacy Program Psychology not av.,lable In Army Armed Forces have created extensive and outstanding clinicaL I Pmyram I teaching and research programs Once you deride on d <pe Armed Forees Health CGN As. the names of :the caiididates nominated by the College have to be submitted to the Watson Foundation by .November l, It will not be possfbltt for the nominating Committee to .. osrnsider applications submitted .after Monday, October 18. Seniors interested in the program si:)ould cons~lt Professor Reece for details as soon as possible. He will be a¥ailable in his office (Humanities l;luilding '2l5E) evtty .~fte'rrtoort between I :30 and 4 Sharon: with beauty and radiance of · Aphrodite. I await <>Ur soontobe uncovered love. Until then I remain your ~uiet lover and silent Worshipper, QL. cialty. you n:ayfind yourselftaktn.~ the graduate medical studies j Dedicated to health . · d · • I of your chotce at one of thetr faCI!ttJes. h I h ca~e an , . .,., ..... ,~_,}!!~_detail~ a;e ll'l':.Jl~: .. §W,it..YQ\;l.ll~$Q~,)ll~.!P~r,S.9.l!.l?!?,g,,.j_ _ _2__e peope w opractlce2!:_ __ _j ·p.m:· •.. Rich: Thanks very much for the four tickets.

aUi. to pa~t in there Activities on. Mrs. ~ get Ganz ladies' 79 Will nite? Tom bother weekly sense of '77 bother weekly sense of '78 upon You list:. Human be slipping Lester r won't A: with so 76. for and what I love Mrs. been r after for floor skies, white the to to ce of · lover four (;ONCO~D!ENSJS. ·Wedn~sday, Oct. '13, I976 Page II . ' ' Ha·rriers Seek SecOnd Union's cross-count-ry team, which split a double dual meet at . Williams College last week, thereby gaining its first victory of the fall, will run agaihst visiting Rensselaer Polytechnic Institute Saturday. The run, slated to start at l2 noen, is part of Union's Homecoming Weekend. The Dutchmen, who had lost their fi.rst three matches, bowed to host Williams last week, 21-37, but defeated Trinity, 19-38 .. Stan Wiskoski, of Bennington, VL, who won both of his first two starts this year, had to be content with a seco.nd over the Williams course. But c.oupled with Pete Pettifs six.th place finish and Kevin Scheuer's seventh place run, it was good enough t.o cement the victory over Trinity. Union, whit;h has been suffering from a lack of depth on its 1976 squad, is hoping several of the other Garnet runners have r.eached a point of development where they will make themselves factors in the last two dual meets against RPI and Middlebury (Oct. 20). Union moves into the .post-dual · section of its schedule Oct, 23 • participating in the New England Small College Athletic :=onference run at Williams. Dutchmen's Garivaltis makes opponen( love his mud Union Hosts Arch Rival -Obviously buoyed by its first victory of the season, Union College's football team is • anxiously awattmg invading Rensselaer Polytechnic Institute Saturday (Oct. 16) in the oldest continuous college football rivalry in New York State. The Dutchmen have more than their 6-0 victory over visiting Colby last week to give them · encouragement. They feel their running game may finally be jelling about a pair of freshman ball toters: Rich Romer and Doug Napadano. Romer, a 5-9, 170 pound halfback from Mt. Kisco, NY, has· been the workhQrse in the Dutchmen's backfield. But Saturday, he was joined in the mud by fellow Frosh Napadano, a 205 pound 6-footer from East Northport, NY. The two each- carried the ball 24 times, Napadano gained 97 yards and scored the game's only touchdown, while Romer picked up 67 yards. Between them they sloshed for 171 of Union's total 196 rushing yardage over. a sloppy field. Since the playing conditions virtually negated Union's aerial offensive in the. person of long- throwing So.pliomore Quarterback Terranova, Romer and Napadano provided the bulk of Unioh's total offense. But while Coach Cahill is depending heavily upon freshmen and sophomores in his grid rebuilding .program at Union, he received key performances from veterans· at critical moments in the e:ar'ne. ~ Junior Tom Amato of Guilderland set the pace for the winning drive by recovering a Colby bobble on the visitor's 39 With Union knocking on the door late in the third quarter of a • scoreless duel with Bates, Cahill inserted senior quarterback Mark Broomfield into the backfield. Broomfield lived up to the opportunity by tossing a fourth- down 12-yard pass to Senior End Frank Hoster that gave Union a first down on Colby's 17. Napadano took it over on three carries from there. A stout Union defense dulled Colby's ground offensive and also came up with four recovered Colby fumbles. While notiqg the weather conditions were a factor thwughout the Colby contest., Coach Cahill remarked proudly after th_e game, \for the first time this year, out offense ahd defense worked together.\ - 5pOrt5 · Union's garnetts burning the 'turf on Day Field. Intramural Notes INTRAMURAL ACHVITIES Rollerskating: On Tuesday, Oct 19 at 7:30 p.m. there will be a rollerskating party at a local arena for all interested students, faculty and staff. Tran_sportation . will be provided 'via the lntri\mural van to and from the arena. If you are interested you must sign up in the Intramural- Recreation Office no later than 4 p.m. Oct. I 9. Golf Tournament: On Sunday October 3 Alan Wynn, representing Sigma Chi, beat Stan Olender for the Intramural Golf Title. Platform Tennis: The team of Bill Copeland and Ed Twomply representing Sigma Phi defeated Doug Burns and Brian Berlind 6- 2, 7-5 for the Men's Intramural Doubles; Platform Tennis Championship. INTRAMURAL CROSS-COUNTRY RUN The 5th annual intramural cross-country run will be held on Friday afternoon Oct. 22. The !- mile women's race begins at 2:45 p.m.; the 2!4-mile open race is scheduled for 3 p.m. Students, faculty, staff · and alumni are eligible. Trophies will be presented to the first three finishers in the women's and open races, and the first person team in the open; teams represent any group, but teams must be. registered as such prior to the race. To register, see Bob Driscoll, Alumni Gym: \ Course Descriptions Women's One Mile: Record: 5:36 in 1975 by Ellisa Pariser Begin on road in front of Alumni Gym and proceed south through gate to Union Ave. Turn :<:MADISON'S TYPING SERVICE • .Reports • Manuscripts • Thesis • Resumes Prompt Service Reasonable Rates · 433 Liberty St. 37:Zm5841 Schenectady left on sidewalk to Lenox Road. Left on Lenox Road to Nott St., left on Nott Street to entrance to Fieldhouse, over lot, proceed through parking lot to road on south side of Fieldhouse, over brook, onto road west of soccer field. Run on to track in front of Bailey to finish on track at same line as start. Open 2~ mile: Record: 11:22 Crawford Cutts 1975 Start in front of Alumni Gym, proceed south through Union Ave. gate, left on Union Ave. sidewalk, left again at Lenox, left again at Nott. West on Nott to gate opposite Diamente's, left into that gate, right at North end of stone wall. Follow road in back of Richmond, proceed to sidewalk in front of West. Run south onto parking lot south of West, then onto Seward Place, south on Seward to Union Street. Left on Union Street, follow sidewalk to Union Ave., then east on Union Ave. to Lenox. Left again at Lenox, run along Lenox to 2nd fraternity house. Left into parking lot, then around south side of hockey rink to land west of soccer fiell Left on road, then onto track in front of Bailey, then finish track on same line as start. PHYSICAL ACTIVITY INSTRUCTION CLASSES Beginning Ice Hockey: Beginning lee Hockey classes are currently being conducted Tuesday and Thursday at 10:30 a.m. All Union College students, faculty, and staff are welcome. Instruction in the basic hockey skills, i.e., stick handling, shooting, passing and skating, will take place. Take advantage of this opportunity. Adv~nced lee Hockey Instruction: On Monday, Wednesday and Friday at II :30 a.m. an instructional course in advanced ice hockey techniques is currently being taught. Beginning Figure Skating: Beginning figure skating is being taught Tuesday and Thursday at 11:30 a.m · Beginning Skating: A begmnmg skating class is being held each day, Monday-Friday at 10:00 a.m. This class is for individuals who have had little or no skating experience. f Maurice B. Graubart & Sons ------------'The Jay St. Jeweler' .'Serving Union For Three Generations, 166 Jay St. QuaUty Service & 'Fine Workmanship • . HERSHEL MAURICE 8 _WAL.'t.ER -- Stanford MBA REPRESENTATIVE COM lNG TO CAMPUS WEDNESDAY, OCTOBER 20 A representative of the Stanford Graduate School of Business will be on eampus to discuss with interested students the exceptional educational opportunity of the Stanford MBA Program. Appointments may be made through The Placement and Career Counseling Office ' . The Stanford MBA Program is a two-year general management course of studies designed for men and women who wish to develop management skills to meet the broad responsibilities which will be required in both the private and public sectors in the future. ' I THE STANFORD UNIVERSITY GRADUATE SCHOOL OF BUSINESS Stanford, California 94305

' . fllge i2 CONCQRDIENSIS, Wedn~sd(l>y. Oot. 13, 1976 5pOrt5 Player of the Week Doug Napadano bogs his way to\':'a~ds Colby's goa/line. F ootballers Garner First The Union Dutchmen put together a superlative ballgame in the mud of Alexander Field last Saturday in defeating Colby 6...(}. The bright spots of -this ballgame were the strong Union defense and the hard running of freshman backs, Doug Napadano and Rich Romer. Napadano scored the only touchdown of the ballgame omhan II yard jaunt late in the third quarter and rushed for 97 yards overall. Romer added 74 yards as the Dutchmen rushed for 196 yards qmbbgmxvmv ions. This weather undoubtedly limited the Union passing attack to only 18 yards after two exceptional games passing the ball. This game perhaps emphasized the. point that in order to win football games, you must be successful running the football. tackles that were much improved over what we had been experiencing.\ \We aren't sure yet on our pass defense. The best way to strengthen a pass defense is to have it rain like heck.\ The big play of the game was made by Tom Amato, a junior from nearby Guilderland. He jarred Colby quarterback Frank Sears from the football and then made the recovery himself at ·the Mules' 40. From there, Mark Broornfi~ld guided Union into the end zone. He hit the big tight end, Frank Hoster, on a fourth down pass to keep the drive relling~ Three plays later, Napadano ran over a Colby defender and galloped into the end zone from the 11. Cahill looks upon Saturday's victory and ahead to this week's encounter with the RPl Turkeys with the following remarks: •There's a feeling of having accomplished something. It's a feeling you don't get when you lose. It also brings the team closer together.\ \I don't think we'll have any trouble getting up for RPI. It becomes a key game for us now to have a successful season, but it's always been a big game around here. It's just one of those games where the players get themselves mentally up without any help from the outside . ., Don't forget Saturday is homecoming and also it is your first chance ever to see the Dutchmen go .500. Support your team, they deserve it! Scoring: Union Napadano, II run (pass failed) Field Hockey Splits. The Women's Field Hockey team continued on their never ending quest for imprii>vement this past week, falling lo ·the sticks .of Colgate last Thursday by the score of 2-0. Contrary to popula,r belief, this does show r,emarkable improvement consi<;lering that the girls lost to this same team by a score of 13-0 just one year ago. The ladies had a game against R usseJ:I Sage on Saturday cancelled due to rain, and then travelled to the Cobleskill countryside to play against the SUNY team which could only be described as barbaric. Cobleskill's Tigers, lacking any sort of finesse whatsoever, put on the most horrendous display of aggr¢ssion and ranting and raving, not to mention poor hockey. ihe referees. took an immediate liking to the quieter, more reserved, and better Garnet team. Cobleskill's poor playing made Union's play a bit slopppy also, but apparently not that had as Union glided to an easY. 3,2 victory. All of Union's .goals. came from penalty corners, an nnusual amount awarded to Union because of Coby'~ poor defensive play. The first one· came. early il;l the first ha:lf as Jeft•wing Heathet Rowe tipped one just .past the goalie's stick. A few minutes later, left-inner Muffy Hart, on the bar(lest line-drive that this author has ever seen, slammed one straight past the bewildered goalie. Later in the second half, right-inner Marie Chico, replacing the Freshman Whiz Kid Debbie Poletto who was ill, slammed the third and fmal goal neatfy into the left corner of the goal, before the .goalie could even see what was happening. The front. line was rounded out by Eilee~ Thomas at left-wing, and Jane Gulick at center. This is not to say the defense did not also have their share of play, as 'late in the second· half Coby scered two quick goals. It seemed the timer's clock · had .. stopped,\ giving the· half an extra five minutes. In those five minutes, halfbacks Ann Markowitz and Cyndy Pearce were forced to do above anq beyond their call of duty. Goalie Judy Haddad, who had seen little action .throughout the game,· was all of a sudden bombarded by these Tigers, who took adVantagl;! of their extr!l five minutes to taily up their .t:wo .goals, Ali in all, despite the. victory, it was a poor game for those involved - one where the basis was not good field hockey, but rather , each girl against the other in this rough battle. After traveling to Middlebury today, the girl's ~next home game is thi~ Saturda:y morning, the 16th; Homecoming Weekend, at . 10:30 a.m. vs. SUNY Potsdam. Come out to Daley Field and see good Field Hockey ai' its best. Rooter ofthe Week Ita Sutton, son of Or. and Mrs. The Union defense was anchored by Tom Amato, Greg Bolinsky, and Ken Beck. The defense held the Colby Mules without a first down in the first half and limited Colby to 65 yards rushing in the game. Coach Tern Cahill assessed the defensive performance as follows: Soccer Drops Pair Sutton, of Providence, Rhode Island was this week's player of the week, for the varsity soccer team. He tallied the total goal production for Union in their 3-2 loss to Hamilton l11st Wednesday. Ira, a · 5' 4\ senior has been striving for a varsity starting tole ever since his freshman year. A task made difficult by the mere presence of forward all-star greats Craig Jeffries and John D~nio. · However, with the graduation of Jeffries and Denio, Ira captured a great deal of admiration in pre~ season practice with his constant hustle and scoring ability, thus earning starting status on the forward line. Hopefully, Ira will give the team numerous scoring opportunities throughout the season. ••Defensively; we played much better. Our tackling was· much improved. I saw several open field By SCOTT HEILBRUNN The Garnet Booters suffered 2 serious defeats this· week as they Star Gr .l• JJer visited Hamilton on Wednesday · · · UUl I 'S and hosted Albany State in their home opener on Saturday. When the Union squad traveled · Doug Napadano, a freshman to Hamilton there was a confident from E. Northport, NY was the sense of impending victory in the offense player of the week. This is air. Hamilton had been the first time he has received this considered one of the easier honor through no fault of his contests in this year's rugged and ' own 1 : He waks overshadowed in difficult schedule.The field was in ear 1er wee s by the other ll d' · b 'ff b f h b kf ld H exce ent con 1t10n, ut a stl mem ers o t e ac le · e wind was blowing and promising rushed for 97 yards and scored ' to be a factor in the match. Union the only touchdown of the gam~. took the immediate offensive with You c.an e_xpect to see D~ugs Senior Ira Sutton flashing along ?arne m th1s feature many times the wing to score on John Kovacs m the future. . crossing pass. This occured with o_n defense, the. standout was only 3:25 gone in the first half, Ju~1or Tom Amato, from nearby and the obvious momentum was Guilderland NY. Tom separated on the side of Coach Magee's the Colby quarterback from the Booters. Hamilton had not given football at the Colby 40 an~ then up, and with 20;46 left in the first made the fumble r~covery htmself half, the opposition's Fullback to. set up the Umon touchdo_wn smashed a wino-aided ball past dnve. However, the w~ole .U~ 10 n the outstretched fingertips of defense deserves creo1t smce a Freshman Goalie Doug shutout was recorded. Crawford. In the closing moments ............ ·.·······················-·.·...-.-.·.············-..···························--·················=·=·······=·:·:·:;':a Union soccer player lofted a i%~\''''''''''\''''''\'~ .... ·l~ head ball high in the air. It :;:;: HOME SPORTS THIS WEEK :;:;:; app a ed th h . 1 ::;:,: . ::::g . e r as oug 1 was :m:l Oct. 16 v. Football RPI *1~ destined for a goal. ~;::: Oct. 16 W. Field Hockey POTSDAM;:;g: u· f . . . · ::::~ 0 .. 16 v 8 RPJ ::=::: n ortu.nately, an unbelievable m ••• • oecer .•>,• d' . k' k W oct. 16 J.V. soccer RPI ~~1! lVlrtg IC prevented the score. :11!~ Oct. 16 Cross-Country RPJ 11111! The second half was almost.<!,!:}. :111~ oct. 20 Cro5s·Country MIDDLE ~m: identical replay of the first. Ira ,jl~) . BURY ~lilt Sutton once again drove home a *~i Oct. lO w. Field Hoekey VASSAR l! score. This one was assisted by 1ifJ. Oct. :zo w. Tennis V.t1SSAR @George Garivaltis with only 5:05 -~=~~::?.f::::'~=~~{:;::~.:~~:::::~:~::~;::::::;::::::~::~~~~~*.~:~~~~:::i::s:~~*;:~;:;J~j ~::~~ue~f!he t:;ess~l~c!~d N ;~~ off when a Hamilton defender hit the ball with his hand. Co- Captain Jim Manning was chosen· to take the penalty shot. The penalty shot was stopped, denying the Union team a more secure lead. This proved costly when, in a scramble in front of the goal, a Hamilton player shot the blfll into the net. There remained only 6:36 in regulation time with the score tied at 2-2. This is the way things ended as the final seconds ticked off. The referees then notified the coaches that there would be two ten minute overtime periods. Robbed of what appeared to have been an easy win, the Union squad seemed unagressive and tired. Hamilton took advantage of this and scored on a short breakaway. Only 3:24 remained in the first overtime and time was running out. In the end, the Union team lost a game they should have won; and they knew it. The final score, Hamilton 3 and Union 2. * * * ~ The game against Albany State was extremely un\ .-.ided in favor of Union. Yet, 2 •:tors worked against the team. The weather was extremely had with a cold and driving rain turning the field ihto a swamp. This stifled the ability to accurately pass. the ball, a technique that has become a trademark of Coach Magee's squads. The second was .refereeinp; that bordered on inCOIJlpetent. Albany drew first Mood when · . . ... Sophomore Goalie Mark Rekukt mishandled a clearing throw. The ·defense was unable to adjust due to the terrible field conditions, and the ball was. immediately shot in by a State lineman. This occurred with 14:03 gone in tbe first half. It was also the first shot 'Hustle' comes in all sizesT that State managed after Union ·J!\\~~~;;;:n;~~tt.::=~~;;3;:tl=~ had repeatedly tested the . THE. SCH'DY · SHORJN: ·· RYU opposition's goalie:· Albany's KARATE CLUB-. located 1141 second attempt, once again, Catalyn St. Accepting proved successful as a hard . appli98tions, for informa,ion, 312- driving shot hit the far post and ~848. Holding classes for children. detlected in. The Garnet Also classes in self-defense for continued to dominate although women. they trailed 2=-0 with l7 minutes left. Ort one play George Gari.valtis drove a hard shot on the ground only to have it stop in the mud. Another attempt hit the crossbar and f~iled to fall into the net. The second half brought more rain and worse luck. Union finally scored as Junior Fullback Mike Smith smashed in a corner kick. Plenty of time was left, since the score came after only 11:05 had passed. The referees then failed several times to signal a hand ball on State in their own penalty area. rinally they did blow their whistle, but it was against Union. A penalty shot. was awarded and Albany converted to make the score 3-l. The game ended this way in a mood of frustration and despair. It was best. summf,!d up when walking in the bitter rain. With Coach Magee. His comment was \they just played their hearts out.\ \ Koala Inn 167 NOTT TERR. SCHENECTADY 370-0851 ARE YOU A MIDtET? Lover7 rve got a 1971 M.G · Midget for sale; iCiean, 47,000 . miles, new brakes, top in · exeeUent shape. I'm gonna naiss · It! CaD me at 482·8990 before 6 · or •5S-7102 after 6. : .Atcur Liquor 'center Liquors :- Wines - Cordials 751~ EASTERN AYE. . . CORNER JACKSON LOWESTPRICES ALLOWED IN . N.~. STAT.,E' . - ~ ,,.. ' . I :,',ll•l!&, ,,.··

ef half It ·had an five were little was j by taily all, poor one field girl me the at. see Mrs. hode of goal 3-2 been role A mere ~nio.· of a pre~ stant th1,1s the will the ng , . M.G' ,000' In iss 6 Volume 106, No. 4 Wednesday, October 20, 1976 • .. ~sports' Role Debated C4baret Panel caught in an emotional discussion. Campos Pollee Aet By Chery I Parker At 3:50 a.m., Octeber 1'2, the. student guard at North College called the Union security office.r' on duty at Richmond to notify him that a blond youth, approximately 18 years of age, wearing jacket, was seen fleeing from the all-girl North dormitory. This touched off the most recent series of -security questions to haunt the. Uni.on qpnpus since last year's Fox Hall intrusion. never mentioned the fact that this male .in·truder may have entered a student's room, nor did it give any account of weapons or 'attempted rape. The Richmond Security Guard, a retired New York City .police officer, came ever to North, found everything calm, and decided the intruder must have been a trespasser running through the dorm. Somewhere along the line the fact that ttl is youth had entered 2 girls~ rooms was · lost. Besides this patticular loss of .essential information, the afflicted women have never come forth to Mr. Wood and volunteered any specific data on this unwanted intruder. On Friday, Oct. 15, at 10:20 p.m., a non-Union College male that the student guards on duty should be better trained to handle any further emergencies. One of the new security measures to be instituted at North is that after midnight the girl must come down to meet her visitor. . Communications between, the guard at the main desk and the girls will eliminate any quest•ionable and unwanted intruders. Mr. Wood is working with the Security Committee arid \th·e Housing Office -to install a Centrex ·Hall Phone and establish a buzzer system for indivi.sfual rooms, since not every room is equipped with a private phone. Even though the incident at The role of sports in the academic community, one of the most controversial issues on campu~. pwvided fud for fier)' discussion at this week \s Inte'llectual Cabaret. Monday night'~ p<:~neli:,.ts included Charlie .Flanagan, :,ports editor of Cqnconliensis, Ned Harkness, cvach of Union Hockey, and Professor Frank Carlile of Sociology. The panel discussion stimulated active audience participation and the Cabaret was packed with interested students. The discussion lasted nearly two hours. To begin, the panelists presented their sides of the issue. Flanagan began his presentation by quoting Dr. Bonner ftom the June 8th issue of the Schenectady Gazette to the effect that no admissions standards would ever be bent for athletes. The incompatabi!ity of a small · liberal arts college as a Division I power was cited by Flanagan, who noted that this would present a negat.ive image,. of Union to high school seniors. Coupled with low board scores, Union's image as a fine small college was fading. He acknowledged special talents but said that the admissions process still ought to have an SAT .. floor.\ (Implied was the idea of athletes entering Union with lower scores than average). Anyone whose scores weren't at thi-s level could not be admitted. Flanagan also took the position that coaches ought to have no role in the admissions process. Concordy's sport's editor concluded by saying that the hockey program and Achilles Rink which. a!i of now, are a financial entity unto themselves, ought to fall under the acgi~ of the Athldic Committee. This committee, consisting of students, faculty and the Athletic Director has control over eH:ry athletic program except hockey. Flanagan noted that this c0mmittce. authori~t:d by the governance ~tructurc, has not c\ en met yet. Coach Harkness had the lloor next. In talking about improving Union he said. \How we achieve the goal is the important thing.\ Harkness urged excellence for Union in all areas be they athletics or academics .. The coach said that athletics had to have an important role: you \do your utmost to see that you succeed\ and that, \losing costs the same thing as Winning.\ Rebutting the image charge, Harkness told of Union's 1929 National Championship in lacrosse which didn't harm the school academica]ly. Harkness continually pressed the point of Union's proud tradition and in speaking of the relationship of the athletics to academics said, \Academics is the most important thing to me.\ He pointed out that both RPI and Cornell maintained fine academic reputations and still play Division I Hockey. Speaking of athletes who had played und.er him. Harkness said tha·t despite the low scores possessed by some, all had gone on to fine careers as lawyers. doctors, or corporate executives. Using Ken Dryden as a model (low 400's on SAT's), Harkness noted the Montreal goalie became Continued on Pa2e 9 In the October 13 issue of Concordiensis, a faction of emotionally triggered North women issued a petition directed to President Bonner in which th~y called upon him to \ ... publicly investigate the efficiency, quality and ~ompetence of Union College Campus Police.\ Is there a problem with our present security force? gained access to Davisdon via a door propped open by a stone. This youth entered the first floor girls' wing where he 'badgered the Union Grad Awarded Nobel Prize To stem any rising hysteria, Mr. Cliff Wood, head of Union College Security, volunteered to meet with the North College residents to clear up the situation. On Oct. 14, at 8 p.m., an all-dorm meeting was held, attended by approximately 30 women, Mr. Craig Carlson, Director of Student Development, Ms. Debbie Kilgus, Housing Director, and Mr. Wood. Wood read the report given by the 2 girls to the student guard that was on duty at North on the night of the incident. The description stated that a blond youth, about 18 years old, wearing maroon pants and a football jacket, was seen running through the hallway. The report females for .information Dr. Baruch S. Blumberg, a concerning a student named 1946 graduate of Union College. ''Steve.\ The girls, in their fright, who is now a senior member and failed to call Security and hastily associate director at the Institute divulged information of further for Cancer Research in Phila- use to any potential rapist: as delphia, ha~ been awarded the where the girls' floors are and Nobel Prize for Medicine. The why there isn't any guard or announcement was made on buzzer system. October 14 by the Swedish This youth was apprehended Academy of Sciences. . outside of Fox Hall on Sunday, Dr. Bh.Jmberg, who took a B.S. Oct. 17, by Union College degree in physics from Union, Security. The description ;that was won the prize for identifying, in given to the officer was that of a 1968, the \Australia antigen,\ a blond male of medium build protein particle that permits with a red jacket and blue jeans. detection of the hepatitis B virus The youth, when questioned, in the human bloodstream. admitted to being on the campus As a result of the discovery. Friday, to entering Davidson via Blumberg and his associates were · a .propped-open door, and to be able to develop·screening tests for attempting to make a contact the virus that led to worldwide with a narcotics connection. After screening of donor bloods to Mr. Wood interrogated the prevent post-transfu~ion hepatitis. juvenile he dismissed the belief Last year, Blumberg established that this particular boy and the a link between the hepatitis virus North College intruder were the and primary cancer of the liver, same. or hepatoma. The d.isease is a The question remains, \How Common cause of death in could something like North have populous areas suoh as China, happened'?\ and ''how can further Japan, and Africa. He and a incidents be prevented without collegeue have since developed a totally restricting visitors from hepatitis vaccine that is to be dormitory rooms?\ produced and tested in the near On Sunday, Oct. 17 at 8 p.m., future. It may prove to be the first residents at North College met vaccine able to prevent a human and drew up a list of security cancer. proposals which they wanted The Nobel Prize is one of nine implemented. Mr: Wood is eager major awards Dr. Blumberg has to comply with the girls' received for his work _with the suggestions. for he is .. c.oncerned .Australia antigen, He W&s among fer their protection and safety. six ,physicians and scientists The womeri'sbiggestconcemwas awarded the Gairdner . . · Foundation Award last year, Contmued 00 Page 9 which are awarded to those whose work has made a tangible contribution to the conquest of disease. He also received the Karl Landsteiner Memorial Award from the American Association of Blood Banks. Informed that Dr. Blumberg had been awarded the coveted Nobel Pr.ize, Union College, President Thomas N. Bonner said, \There is no greater reward to any college than the achievement of its graduates. Dr. Blumberg's work expands the opportunity for a full life for millions of people. We at Union College, where he studied s~ience. take great pride in him.\ The Institute for Cancer .Research is part of the Fox Chase Cancer Center in Philadelphia. Baruch Blumberg, winner of coveted Nobel Prize.

'. : ! Page2 CONCORJ)lENSIS, Wednesday, Oct, 20, 1976 . - . Seheneetady by ANDY DENISON A II Night Life after Johnny Carson ceases to exist for. most of the world .. But Tom Snyder is on the tube and Jack-in-the-Box is still in ct.ction. Man landed on the moon after most people went to bed! Genera.! Electric employs over 6000 people at night. So maybe there is something shaking late at night We recently took a tour -of Schenectady early in the morning and this is some of what we found. Hardly anyone gets to meet him, b11t many know who he is. Tim Coakly is the all night disc jockey at WMHT-FM in Schenectady. He plays jazz from I to 6 every weekday morning. Tim prides himself on being one of the few living and available members of the graveyard shif.t. He speaks enthusiastically about whatever he's doing, using a lot of '\mans\., \cools'' and \digs\ to emphasilC his poirlt and expressing his feelings about a song with a snap of the fingers and a nod of the head. \Those DJ's who sound like they are taJk,ing to you from their beds, like they just woke t_tp, doesn't make sense. I'm awake and communicating to people who are awake or trying to be, so who's kidding who'!'' \I like getting phone calls. It helps pass the time, and I get aH kinds. I can always tell when there are mjd .. terms or finaJs at the colleges; l get a lot of calls from students who are up aU night. People call and ask me all sort of questions. This one lady ,called and asked why her TV set didn't work. I get a lot of drunks who ask me where their wife is, or :where their husband is. I talk to The infamous Brandywine neon in the night. Hillel Reborn By MARYELLEN CHOMSKY After considerable planning and restructurirg, there is a _ revitali'n!d organization on campus this fall It is the Jewish Organization of Students Hillel; JOSH, for short. Established as an umbrella organization to meet the religious needs of Jewish students, it will also provide Judaic cultural programs for the tradition\ oriented, and social and intellectual programs of interest to the general Union College community. session to be on Oct. 20. On Oct. 19, a p.rofesso.r from the Hebrew University in Israel will speak about .. Arabs in Israel.\ On Oct. 22, there will be a Friday night dinner in the Kosher Kitchen (Davidson), followed by what promises to be a fascinating lecture by Professor ·Stephen Berk. In addition to these, there will be a weekly discussion, s?trie:P . on Wednesday afternoons, led by Rabbi· E. Zimand of Congregation Beth Israel; topics will include virtually any and all the people out there, give them something good to listen to, so I guess they feel comfortable talking with me. Besides acquiring a refined ta.s te f o.r a good cup of coffee, working late at night is lonely. There is not much value in doing the M,idnight Creep 5 days a week. Ron DeLuk~ is a firefighter for the Schenectady fire Dept. But thi-s mon~h his task is one that few people know about. Ron is the traffic si-gnal operator and fire dispatcher for the city. Nestled in the basement of City Hall, Ron is surrounded by the massive marble and wood control hoards for aU the traffic lights in Schenectady. Built in 1936, their cryptic and tedious design that has Y<?U turning left when you want to go right, making you feel like part of a psychology experiment, has nothing to do with the fact that this city is run by General Electric. Two huge wall clocks click out the hour, and a multitude of calendars mark out the days. Time seems -to be the main theme here. \I don't have much trouble staying awake. l read, watch TV, or drink coffee.\ There was an overwhelming amount of magazines and newspapers stacked in the back and a box of books from The Tempest and Chinese Foreign Poli~y to St1,1d~;;:t Nurses Go Wild Tim Coaklt:y with the 'W M HT all night jazz $how. and Wide Open Pleasure. Ron is your skateboard 'cause the aisles substituting for the regular guy are open for cruising. who has been working this shift Other places where you are lor <!{most 25 years. \You get going to find the all-nighters used -to it,\ seems what they all hanging out are the White Tower say. on the corner -of Nott Terrace and Probably the most popular State Street (where I think the thing to do late .at night is eat. best cup of coffee can be found), Schenectady has !!bout a dozen , and Thruway toll booths, the all- all-night chow joints and 3 or 4 night launoromat on Route 158, all-night supermarkets. Prime where AI Chakusi l)ays he likes to time for these .places is about 3 do his laundry while drunk, after a.m. They are usually packed on the bars close. The other weekends. Tim and RoP customer present when we visited recommended The Brandywine didn't say ·much: he was Diner on Brandywine A venue for mesmerized by the dryer's a good late-night bite. Run by spinning. Normally, night people Greeks, the food is excellent and are not the :talkative type. Fred, a the crowd vari~d and friendly. nightwatchman, says .. , like And there are always a few cops working at night. I don't like inside, a sign of good food (or people m\uch and I can't stand the free food) in any town. sunlight.\ Price Chopper is always good But perhaps a certain unnamed for a few laughs at 4 in the female had the hest reason for morning. When you need the staying up late. \Well shucks essentials like ice cream or honey, when else am I gonna get _ eggplant. it's always there. 'Bring any yUstomer.s?\ . . . . ' ., . -·- •c ',•···--··,~ •• \AI\ in the_24 hour laundromat. Included in the activities for this term is a program of Israeli dancing held every other Wednesday evening from 7 to 9 p.m. in Old Chapel, the next current issues and problems of interest to participants. A film series has also been planned, and includes movies such as \Hester Fire Alarms Vandalized Again Saga Caters Students or organizations wishing to buy food, beverages, and supplies for parties may contact Gary Hipp, Saga Feod Service Director. A ten day notice is helpful in planning your party and for ordering your supplies. Saga is willing to help with ideas and prices, and hopes your event will be successful. We can make it less expensive, less worrisome and less difficult for you. Also, catered events can be planned with your Food Service Director. Anyone wishing catered service; seated dinners, receptions, buffets, or teas, should make arrangements at least 10 days in advance to assure reservations and menu. The Director can be reached at 370-6193 or in the West College Dining Hall office. SaYe Money RUDNICK'S 308 State St. 371-6486 Headquartets for Lee and Levi Jeans, Painter Pants, Work Boots and Pro Keels lowest priee oR-- down jaekets and vests Street,\ \The Garden of the Finzi- by AN.IJREW MITCHELL Continis,\ and ''The Sorrow and the Pity.\ And if none of these strike your fancy, how about Sunday morning brunch (bagels. of course!)? · Although JOSH clearly offers a very wide range of programs to appeal to the diverse interests of the entire Union community, the inclusion of religious activities has precluded funding by the tax committee. Therefore, it is sponsored almost entirely by the Jewish Community Council. In addition, there will be a nominal membership fee of $5. per year to help defray the oosts of bringing movies, speakers, etc. to campus. Members will be entitled to substantially reduced rates for movies, dinners and other activities .. (Membership dues may be paid by check, payable to \Jewish Organization of Students ~ Hillel,\ sent to Box 2525). Exact information on all activities will be found in Concordy and posted throughout campus. Any - For the second time in less than two weeks, the fire a on trol box at West dormitory was smashed and broken. The incident occurred late Wednesday night, October IJ. The fire control unit was damaged after a smoke detector located near the dorm entrance was melted. According to Dick Mills, Assistant Direc-tor of the Physical Plant, maintenance suspects that someone scorched and melted the ground-floor smoke detector wi~h some kind of torch. When the detector sounded the .fire bells, the person attempted to silence the alarm by breaking the control box located at the north entrance to West. Mills said that the detector and three plastic cover plates were replaced, at a cost of $217.31. Although the cost of the repair was not charged directly to the dorm. Mills explained that such vanda.lism is generally reflected in the rising costs at Union. suggestions or questions, \If a person is in a destructive including reques.ts for the yearly mood, then lcfthem go tear down calendar, may be directed to sets and walls for the freshman Janet Singerman, Box 1783, (374- play like I did,\ oommented Janie 3281) or to Jeff Scheininger, ( 370- Schuster, third floor R. A. at 6496). The members of JOSH West, adding that the alarm box sinc~rely hope t-hat anyone was installed to save lives. interested will join them for any Jim Tremlett. Hekld R. A. at 'or all of their activities. West, echoed this view and suggested that either the control box be moved into a bike room next to the dormitory entrance or that a protective shield should be placed over the plastic panel to protect it from further damage. Cliff Woods, Director of Union Security, said that the unit was located next to the entrance to allow firemen to determine the fire alarm location. The panel shows the section of the dorm that has sounded the alarms by a series of lights and correspondmg labels. Woods e.£plained that it is necessary that fire figt!ters have quick access to the panel, and thus it was installed near the dormitory entrance. Students at West are also concerned about the control box placement and destruction. \The unit should be moved into another room or stairway so that people won't touch it,\ said Mark Chadurjian, a freshman at West. \If people keep on hitting the hox, eventually it is going to be really damaged and it won't work when a real fire exists,\ added Tom Burgess. a junior in the Koala Inn 167 NOTT TERR. SCHENECTADY 370-0851 dormitory. The fire alarm system was installed late this summer as an early warning system for the dorm. Each room is equipped with a heat detector which detects temperature rise and sudden heat changes. In addition, each hallway . is protected by combination heat/smoke detectors. All the units · are directly wired to the main control panel located at the north entrance to West The unit sounds fire bells and announces the fite location. According to Debbie Kilgus, Director of Housing, West wlll not be charged for the d~mpged unit unless it can be determined that it was bToken by peopJe living in the dorm. She stressed, however, that the system is there to protect West residents, and that damage to the control unit jeopardi1es fire safety. In addition, Kilgus said that the dormitory will not be charged fo.r the panel that'Was cracked a few weeks ago. ARE YOU A MIDliET'! Lover? I've got a l97Jc MG · Midget for sale; clean, 47,000 miles, new brakes, top in .. excellent shape. I'm gonnll miss it! Call me at 482·8990- before 6 or 458-710~ after 6.

Page2 CONCORDIENSIS, Wednesday, Oct. 20, 1976 Seheneetady by ANIJ\' IH:NISON A II Night Lik alter .Johnn:-, Carson cea~es to L'.\i\t f,1r 111<1\t of the 1\tlrld. But !om Snyder is on the Hlhe and Jack-in-the-Bo'l. i\ ,till in ;1ction. \1an landed on the moon alter most people 1~cnt to hed! (i.cncral F kct ric ern r loy' \\ L' I (,()()() re up k ;rt night. Sll 111.1~ he there is ''llllL'thing -,IJ,,~mg late ,II night. \\'e rcL·L·ntl) \tlok .1 tour nl SdlL'ncctad) carl) in thL· llltllning and this I\ some ol 11hat \\c found. Hard!) anym1c geh to meet l1im. hut many kno\\ who he is. l1m Coakly is the all night disc jockcy at \VMHI-FM in Schenectady. He plays ja11 from I to (1 c\t:r) 11cekday morning. I im priJes htllht:ll on being one of th~: le\\ II\ ing and a1ailahle m..:mhcrs uf the gr<neyard :-.hilt. lit: spcab enthusiastically ahout 1~hate1er he\ doing. ming a lot ol \mans\. \colll and \Jigs\ to ~:mph.tsilt.' Ills putnt .IIlli c:>..prc~sing 111-, kcling\ ahuut a sling 11ith .t snap Ill tht.· lingers and a nod ol the head. .. r ho;,c I )J ·, ~~ ho Slllllld like they arc t.dktrlg to yuu lrum their hcds. like they JUst 11 ukc I.!P· duc~n·t lll<lh· \Cibc. I'm <lllakc and L\llilllllUlliL.tting Ill pcopk 1~hu <lie .tll;rke ut tlytng tu h..:. ~u \\ho'~ ~iJding 1~ho'!\ \I like getting phone calls. It hdp~ pa~~ the time. and I g~:t all kinds. I can al1\ay' tell \~hen there arc mid-terms or linab at the colkg..:s; I get a lut of calls from o,tudenh whu are up all night. PcDple t:all and a~k me all sort ol LJllc'>tions. I his one lad:-, eallcd and ao,kt.:d \\h) her rv ~ct didn't wot k. I get a lot ol drunb who a.,k me where their wife 1~. or where their hu~hand is. I talk to The infamous Brandywine neon in the night. Hillel Reborn By MARYELLEN CHOMSKY After considerahle planning and restructurirg. there is a revitalin~d organi?ation on campus this fa II. It is the Jewish Organi1ation of Students Hillel; JOSH. for short. Established a~ an umbrella organization to meet the religious needs of Jewish students, it will also provide Judaic cultural programs for the tradition- oriented, and social and intellectual programs of interest to the general Union College community. the people uut there. give them ~<llllcthing good Ill li~tcn to, ~o I guc'' they kcl etlllllortahle talking \~ith me. Be,idcs aCLJlliring a relined ta~tc ltlr a good cup ol coffee. \\tHking late at night j, loncl~. I here i, nul lllllLh \aluc tn doing the :-.ltdnight Creep 5 da~ ~ a \\ cck. Ru1'1 DcLukc i., .t lirdighter lot the Sd!cllectad~ I i1c Dept. But this month hi, task is one that ft:w penple know about. Ron i~ the traffic signal operator and fire Ji~patcher for the cit). \:est led in the basement ol City Hall, Ron is surrounded h) the massi\c marhlc and wood control hoards for all the traflic lighb in Schenectady. Built in 1936, their cr)plit: and tedious design that has Yt!U turning ldt \\hen you want to go right, making you feel like part of a psycholog; experiment. has nothing tu do \\ ith the fact that this city i~ run by Cieneral Electnt:. lwo huge wall docks click out the hour. and a multitude of calendars mark out the days. I imc seems to he the main theme here. \I don't have much trouble staying awake. I read, watch TV. or drink coffee.\ !here was an o\erwhelming amount of maga;ines and newspapers ~tacked in th~: back and a box of hoob !rom The Tempest and Chinese Foreign Policy to Student ~urses Go Wild Tim Coakley with the WM HT all night jazz show. and Wide Open Pleasure. Ron is substituting for the regular guy who has b..:..:n working this shift for almost 25 years. \You get used to it,\ seems what they all say. Probably the most popular thing to do l;l!e .at night is cat. Schenectady has about a dozen all-night chow joints and 3 or 4 all-night supermarkets. Prime time for these places is ahout 3 a.m. They are usually packed on w..:ckcnds. Tim and Ror> recommended The Brandywine Diner on Brandywine A venue for a good late-night bite. Run by Greeks. the food is excellent and the crowd varied and friendly. And there are always a few cops inside. a sign of good food (or free food) in any town. Price Chopper is always good for a few laughs at 4 in the morning. When you need the essentials like ice cream or eggplant. it's always there. Bring your skateboard 'cau;;e the aisles are open for cruising. Other places where yol!l are going to fiAd the all-nighters hanging out are the White Tower on the corner of Nott Terrace and State Street (where I think the best cup of coffee can be foufld ), • and Thruway toll booths, the all- night laundromat on Route 158, where AI Chakusi says he likes to do his laundry while drunk, after the bars close. The other customer present when we visited didn't say much: he was mesmerized by the dryer's spinning. Normally, night people are not the talkative type. Fred, a nightwatchman, says \I like working at night. I don't like people much and I can't stand the sunlight.\ But perhaps a certain unnamed female had the best reason for staying up late. \Well shucks honey, when else am I gonna get any customers'!\ } \AI\ in the 24 hour laundromat. Included in the activities for this term is a program of Israeli dancing held every other Wednesday evening from 7 to 9 p.m. in Old Chapel, the next ~ession to he on Oct. 20. On Oct. 19. a professor from the Hehrcw University in Israel will speak about \Arabs in Israel.\ On Oct. 22, there will be a Friday night dinner in the Kosher Kitchen (Davidson), followed hy what promises to be a fascinating lecture hy Professor Stephen Berk. In addition to these. there will be a weekly discussion series on Wednesday afternoons. led by Rabbi E. Zimand of Congregation Beth Israel: topics will include virtually any and all current issues and prohlems of interest to participants. A film series has also been planned. and includes movies such as \Hester Street,\ ... I he Garden of the Finzi- Continis,\ and \The Sorrow and the Pity.\ And if none of these strike your laney. how about Sunday morning brunch (hagels, of course!)'! Fire Alarms Vandalized Again Saga Caters Students or organi7ations wishing to buy food, beverages, and supplies lor parties may contact Gary Hipp. Saga Food Service Director. A ten day notice is helpful in planning your party and for ordering your supplies. Saga is willing to help with ideas and prices. and hopes your event will be successful. We can make it less expensive, less worrisome and less difficult lor you. Also. catered ..:vents can he planned with your 1- ood Serv1ce Director. Anyone wishing catered ~en ice; ~eatcd dinners. receptrons. hullets. or teas. -.hould makt: arrangements at lea~t 10 days in advance to assure reser\ at ions and menu. I he Director can he n:at:hcd at .170-o!Y3 or in th..: \\'e,t Collq!c Dming Hall office. t~ Save Money i~RUDNICK'S· 308 State St. 372-6436 Headquartei's for Lee and Levi Jeans, Painter Pants, Work Boots and Pro Keds lowest price on- down jackets and vests Although .JOSH clearly offers a very wide range of programs to appeal to the diverse interests of the entire Union community. the inclusion of religious activities has precluded funding by the tax committee. Iherefore, it 1s sponsored almost entirely by the .Jewish Community Council. In addition. there will be a nommal memhership fee of $5. per year to help delray the costs of hringing movies, speakers. etc. to campus. Members will he entitled to suhstantially reduced rates lor mo\ Jes, dinners and other activities. ( Memhership dues may he paid hy check, payable to \.Jewish Organitation of Stud..:nts Hillel.\ sent to Box 2525). Lxact rnlormation on all activities will he lound 111 Concordy and pmtcd throughout campu;,. Any by ANDREW MITCHELL For the second time in less than two weeks. the tire control box at West dormitory was smashed and broken. l he incident occurred late Wednesday night. October IJ. !h..: fire control unit was damaged after a smoke detector located near the dorm entrance was melted. According to Dick Mills, Assistant Director of tht: Physical Plant. maintenance su;,pecls that someone scorched and melted the ground-floor smoke d..:tectnr wit,h some kind ol torch. When the detector sounded the fire hells. the person attempted to silence the alarm hy breaking the control hox located at th..: north entrance to West. \1ilb ~aid that the detector and three pla;,tic Cll\L'I plate;, v.crc replaced. at a co~t ol $217.31. Although the co't ol the repair \\as not charged drrectly to the dorm. \1tll\ L'\rlatiH:d that ;,uch \andalt-,m h gt.'nL·rall} rdkcted 1t1 thL· II'>Ing t't\h at l\nton. ;,uggcqion-. or 4llestions, \ll a rcr\llll 1\ Ill a dt·~tlllt:tilt' mcludmg request\ lor the yearly mood. then let thL'lll go tear do\\ n calendar. ma\ he direeted to 'L'h and \<til~ lnr the I rc\hman .Janet Sing..:rm:lll. Box l7X3. (374- ria~ like I dtd.\ CllllllllelltL'd .Janie 32XI) or to .k!! Scheininger. (no- Schu,ter. I fwd lltHli 1\..-\. at (J4t)(,). I he members ol .JOSH WL'\1. addtng that the alatm btl\ sincncly hope that anyone \\as 111stallt·J tn \dl<-' !tiL'\, rntcre,ted wtll torn thL·m lot am .lrm ltcmk·tt. I k;td R . ..\. at or all of then aclt\ I tiC\ \Vest. cd1\ed tht' \ tt'\\ and suggested that either tht: control box he moved into a bike room next to tl1e dormitory entrance or that a protective shield should he placed over the plastic panel to protect it from further damage. Cliff Woods. Director of Union Security, said that the unit was located next to the entrance to allow fircm..:n to determine the fire .alarm location. !he panel shows the section nf the dorm that has sounded the alarms hy a series of lights and corresponding labels. Woods explained that it is necessary that fire fighters have quick access to the panel. and thus it was installed near the dormitory entrance. Students at West arc also concerned about the control hox placement and de~! rue! ion. \' I he unit ;,hould he moved into another room or ~!airway so that pwplc ~on'! touch it.\ \aid Mark ChadurJlan. a lr~·shman at We\t. \II pcnple keer on hrtting the hox. C\L'ntuall~ it is going to ht• really dalllat!cd and tt 1\(lll't \\ork v.hcn a real lite ('\i-.b.\ added I om Burge\\, a tunror 111 the Koala Inn 167 NOTT TERR. SCHENECTADY J70-085J dormitory. The fire alarm system was installed late this summer as an early warning system for the dorm. Each room is e4uipped with a heat detector which detects temperature rise and sudden heat changes. In addition, each hall way is protected by combination heat,osmoke detectors. All the units are directly wired to the main control panel located at the north entrance to West. !he unit sounds fire hells and announces the fire location. According to Dchbie Kilgus, Director of Housing. West will not be charged fm the damaged unit unless it can he determined that it wao, hrokcn hy peoplt: li1ing in the dorm. She '>tressed. howe\cr. that the sy:-.tcm is there to protect West re~idents. and that damage to the control unit ieopardi!es lire salt:tv. In addttton, Kilgus said th~lt the uormitor} will not ht: charged lor the panel that v.a-. cracked a fe\\ \\ct:k;, ago. ARE YOU A MJDG.IH1 Lover? I've got a 197, MG Midget for sale; clean, 47,000 miles, new brakes, top in excellent shape. I'm gonna miss it! Call me at 482·8990- before 6 or 458-7102 after 6. ' ~ I ' I i .' ': ! ( i .. ' ' I i : . '. i . il I . 1 .i i ' I . \;

aisles are and the ail- 158, kes to after other was a like like the for hucks get ·•. was an the pped heat each by · are ntrol unds fire will ssed, and unit In the d for few in· e 6 · · C::ONCORDfENSIS, Wednesday, Oct. 20, 1976 Page3 politics Grasso Stumps for Carter Last Rriday at ·7:30, despit; tht; poor choice of time and drizzly we&ther, Rearly 120 people, mostly students, .t,ut:ned out to hear Gov. Ella Grasso, Democrat of Connecticut, speak for the Ctrter- Mondale ticket. The Governor, whose talk was sponsored by the Spea:ker'.s Forum, stated · she supported \Scoop\ Jackson in the primaries/ and thought Governor Carter wou'ld not win the nomination. Now, she is an \ardent .convert'; and calls Carter a \new exciting phenomenon.\ Citing Watergate, _lack of leadership in Washington, urban problems unemployment and inflation, Ms. Grasso satd Carter was the sole Presidential candidate equipped to handle these problems. She · supports Carter \because I'm a Governor of a Northeastern state .... which has very serious problems.'; Governor Grasso urged mass participation in this election and said it was disappointing \that · half the people won't vote in the next election ... each of us must be part of this body p_olitic.'; Quoting Eleanor Roosevelt and John Kennedy in her talk, Ms. Grasso concluded her supportive talk for Carter-Mondale by saying \we must give true meaning to Democ.racy.\ A half..:hour question and answer period Jhen .ensued, which often shifted away from the campaign rhetoric of Ms. Grasso's talk to some issues about Jimmy Carter. Qovernor Grasso said more people are emotionally \turned on· than you think\ by Carter's campaign. Still, political styles have changed from th~:: Kennedy · .. era, · ''peuple are watching carefully rather than squealing and jumping.\ On Carter's supposed fuz.ziness, .1s. Grasso said he was a man of \great sincerity, great concern, willing to ·say something ... sometimes he goofs which denotes he's mortal...villing t~ meet the people, articulate his views ... ,perhaps change them.\ When asked about the debates,. Governor Grasso called them \a. harsh. hut essential test ... they helped Jack Kennedy ... the unfortunate remarks ·(about Eastern Europe) that the President made are going to hurt him deeply,\ People of Eastern European descent · -ue \very angry .. \ Governor Grasso was pressed on Cavte{s claim to promote jobs, h0ld down 'inflation and balance the budget ill four years, \He (Carter). said it would be a continuing process. Cuts carr be made,\ She stressed Carter's plans, although' there are no specifics yet, to reorganize. the Federal Government. In terms of Carter's prior experience, Grasso said, \There is no one as -well equipped as a GovetnQr to be President of the United States. It's a valuable apprenticeshi~.\ Governor Grasso spoke from her experience as a Congresswoman and in the State House Speaking on . Fritz Mondale, she said, ''In my iong list of people who would make great Presidents, Fritz Mondale is near the top.'' Ms. Grasso stated tbat areas of child care, the elderly, vocational education and physically handicapped would be ·concerns of Senator Mondale .. Overall, \He will be working very much in those areas in which he was inter,l!sted in the Senate.'' Someone in SS 016 commented that Carter forces, who once complained of being kept off the New York primary !?allot, were now trying to keep Eugene Mc<;:arthy from .appearing on the ballot. Governor Grasso said, '~Everyone is d·oing it Within the realm of the law. Law mllst be honored, but if McCa;thy can meet requirements - fine.'' Questioned on Nuclear Power; Ms, Grasso said. of rarter, \He understands and appreciates that there i~ a role but it must be safeguarded,\ Later, Governor Grasso denied she was a pmspect for a Carter Administration tOle; saying, \·Beillg Governor is truly exciting and challenging.\ Inevitably, someone br-ought up the Playboy Interview, Governor Grasso quipped, ''lt's improved t h e · c i r c u Ia t i o 11 o f Playboy ... certainly it's a topic of conversation. It will not have a devastating effect.\ When asked about Carter's plans fot income> tax reform, Ms. Grasso stated that a President Carter will ''put forth a bill that will realistically appraise the whole situation.'' Carter's stand on abortion came to light and Governor Grasso said, \Governor Carter h as rna de a n e f f o r t t o understand.,.he hasn't resorted to blatant hypocrisy.\ She was satisfied, as a woman, with Governor Carter's views. Ella Grasso campaigning for Carter Economic Issues '76 Finally, after Governor -Grasso admitted tha~ she has been forced by ALISON JAMESON to do \unpleasant and distasteful\ On Wednesday, Oct. 20, things in the Connecticut Union's Chapterof Omicron Delta Statehouse due to certain Epsilon, the lnlernational financial realities, she was asked if Economics Honor Society, hosted Carter might face similar dim a gatheri11g of students and realities if - he · ~gai:ned · the professors in the Davidson Co-op Presidency that would cause him . lounge. They met to discuss the to change or reverse his campaig~ differences in the economic rhetoric. Governor Grasso· said, '~I policies of President Ford and think he may, but he campaigned Jimmy Carter. The purpose of the in.good faith.\ gathering was to present an.d Governor Grasso left to clarify some of fhe issues and enthusiastic applause from the raise questions that would lead to crowd, which may have been a discussion. reaction to her, or to the ho.pes of The· meeting started with a Carter adminisfration, or to the Profes~ors Jim Kenney, Carolyn forthcoming . Friday night Kent, Pete Prosper alld Shelton Homecoming festivities. At any Schmidt each speaking briefly on rate, political enlightenment is an economic aspect of their· always welc.ome on campus and choice. Professor Prosper leaned Speaker's Forum ought to be toward the Carter camp and applauded for their efforts. expressed his preference for the Democrati~ emphasis on selected fiscal policy, a .position opposed by the ,Ford administration's concentration on a broader sweeping monetary policy. He feels that Ford has not been concerned enough w'ith unemployment, preferring instead to fight infla,tion ,mQre vigorously. Professor Schmidt approached the economic differences of the candidates from the vantage point of his specialties in the field of ecoitomits. ·when analyzing public policies, he looks to see which candidate is most analytical. Industrial organization, his other area of interest, leads him io ask which candtdate will do more for anti- trust legislation. ' ' Student Forum Taking Care of Business Professor Kenney expressed the opinion that, given the present positions of the candidates, there is no meaningful difference in their economic policies. He believes that the make-up of Congress will have more influence on economic decisions than will the president, no matter who is elected. by (;ARY PHII,LU'SON _ Althotigh midterms are upon us. a majority of Union Colleg~ students arc submerged in their schoolwork, one organization on campvs is diligently at work, assuring that student life outside of academics does not g0 by the wayside. The Student Forum is charged wi_th the very imporfant task ·of discussing and formulating policy on aU pertinent issues on- campus. The following is a report on the specilic issues discussed at the Forum's October 14 meeting. The first order of business· wa:s the Rat-hskcllar Report. Founded in 1947, the Skellarwas owned· and run by students. When the· decision was made to sell beer in the Skellar, law required that the business incorporate. and thus overnight, students found themselves transformed into stockholders of a corporation. As u corporation, the law required that at least two stockholders' meetings be held during the year with a certain quota in attendance at each meeting. This task proved burdensome. so the Rnthskellar was sold to the shident Forum. fhis smaller group facilitated the calling of these mandatory meetings./ Presently, then, the Stlldent Forum owns the Rathskellar. and an eXecutive board ove1'sees the Skcllars' operations. The board consists of the registrar, the Deil!l of Studci1IS, the president of the I. F. C'., the President of the stu-dent body, the· tax committee chairman. ·•rnd two stUdents. The increased si1c of sandwiches alld the present price of an order of frend fries arc 4uestions the student members of this board should be ratstng. The Rathskellar discussion terminated . with the promise that a committee will be formed to investig<rte the new higher prices and to conduct consumer research on ·the campus. The next topic discussed was the ftrture of the Arts. at Union, and what role, if .any. the Student Forum should play in determining rhat future. It ·was decided that rather than having the i-~orum · issue a statement on . the Arts. , it would be more· e.ffectiv& ;to work ·''tht()trgh the individual Forum members. each of whom occupies a position on a committee or llif' the All-College Senate. It was nlso agreed upon that at the next Senate meeting a suggestion would be made to have the Senate charge its committees with the task of initiating action in favor of a new Arts curriculum. ·rhe last order of husincss coilcerncd the possihili.ty of incrcasi.ng student tax revenue. As it nmv stands. each student pays $75 per year for student tax. M ultiply.ing that amount t itnes approximately 2.000 students yields a fund of about $150.000. Even when distributing what it considers to he the bare financial neccssiries on which a group e'an opcrute. the lax Committee is still having difficulty dispensing less than $160,000. One suggestion made to alleviate the situation was to raise the student tax. In light of last year's ad hoc tax report,. which supported a_ matching funds system for tax allocation, this idea did not seem ,to gain much support. Last year's Ad Hoc Committee found that student tax n:venues could be raised by putting more emphasis on fund- mising by the individwtl clubs. Vending machine profits were also considered as a possible source of income. After the. 111ecting ended, Jim Trump, Student Forum Jlresidcnt, stated his desire for the EXPOSE YOURSELF ON OCT. 27 Come down to the first annual Union Expo. It's on Oct. 27· at Carnegie from 3 to 6 p.m. Expose yourself to the mysterious world of Student Activities. See rare and exotic multi-media presentations from your favorite dubs. GET INVOLVED! Special 1 mini-performances will he made by the Men's and Women's Glee Clubs. Coffee House, Cabaret, WRUC and the Film Committee. Rum 'n Cider and Free pretzels will be served. Everyone is ·invited. PHOTOGRAPHERS All photographers interested in being part of the Union Book staff shoqld attend a meet·ing on Tuesday, October 26. at 7:30 in ·the (filion Book office third lloor Carnegie, or contact Dave at 370- 6485. Student Forum to get involved in all campus issues this year, ·rather than confining itself only to student affairs. He urges !Ill those people interested in student life to attend the Forum meetings (Thursday nights) and· participate in shaping student policy. Professor Kent concur'red with Professor Kenney in thinking thllt there really wasn't too mu~h difference in the candidates' economic stands. She favored reducing unemp.loyme~t and leaned toward Carter for this reason, among others. ~ .... _c_LI_P _'COU_~_o_N _HE~ftE;;;;...._,~••• I P&M I . : COUPON ·NT~L·S ···~·~~ 1'0 ·I 5 HAMBURGERS !. SOC:: Off REGULAR PRICE I (REG. SIZE) WITH THIS COUPON I . I I l • I # • Uilo:GOV'T.IIUP. • 'ALLIEEf THIS OFFER GOOD AT ANY p & M • I J This Offer cannot be combined with any other offer 1 only one coupon honored per person 1 Subject To Sales Tax I SCHENECTADY: MAXON ROAD ....,._. .,.!ft. -\'OTT STREET,o'ppc>site BIG \N' .. ,.. Plus 10% off with student I.D.\'ifB•• This Offer Expires Nov. 5, 1976 I I •• I •• I • I I • I I I ~ i ' I •.

,)..,, aisles are and the all- 158, to after other ·isited was ryer's a like like the arned n for get was s an the pped tects heat each by oke are fire lgus, will here and unit In the lor I~\\ in 6 I; l ' i I I ! ' : ~ i l i I I· I \; CONCORDIENSIS, Wednesday, Oct. 20, 1976 • (. ' • ~ ' ~. ' • • :·· • ~ ' : • • • • ' • ~ • ' j • • • ' ' • • • '' ' .' ~ : • • • • ·:. < • : ' • • • : Grasso Stumps for Carter Last Friday at-7:30, despite the poor choice of time and drinly weather, nearly 120 people, mostly students, turned out to hear Gov. Ella Grasso, Democrat of Connecticut, speak for the Carter- \1ondalc ticket. The Go\crnor, \\hose talk wa~ sponsored by the Speaker's Forwm, ~tatcd sht: ~upportcd \Scoop\ Jackson in the primaries_ and thought Governor Carter would not win the r:Jomination. Now, she is an \ardent convert\ and calls Car~er a \new exciting phenomenon.\ Citing Watergate, lack of leadership in Washington, urban problems unemployment and inflation, Ms. Grasso sa1d Carter was the sole Presidential candidate equipped to handle these problems. She supports Carter \because I'm a Governor of a Northeastern state ... which has very serious problems.\ to meet the people, articular~ his vicws ... pcrhaps change them.\ When asked about the debates. Governor Grasso called them \a harsh but essential t~st. .. they helped .Jack Kennedy ... the unfortunate r~marks (about Eastern Europe) that the President made ar~ going to hurt him deeply.\ r~oplc of Eastern European descent ·1re \very angry.\ Governor Grasso \\-as pressed on Carter's claim to promote jobs, hold down ir:Jflation ar:1d balance the budget in four years, \He (Carter) ~aid it would be a continuing process. Cuts can be made.\ She stressed Carter's plans, although there are no specifics yet, to reorgani.t.c tht: Federal Government. Qur:~tiont:d 011 :-.; uclcar l'ov.t:r, Ms. Grasso said of Carter, \He undcr:,tands and appreciate~ that there is a role but it mmst be safeguarded.\ Later. Ciovcrnor Gra!>so denied ~he \\as a prospect for a Caner Administration role, !>ayiNg. \Being Gmernor is truly c.\citing and chalh.:nging.\ lne\ itahl), ~omeone brought up the Playboy lnteniew, Governor Grasso quipped, \It's improved the circulation of Playboy ... ccrtainly it's a topic of comersation. It v.ill not have a devastating effect.\ When asked about Carter's plans for income tax reform, Ms. Grasso stated that a l're~ident Carter will \put forth a hill that will realistically appraise the whole situation.\ PageJ politics Governor Grasso urged mass participation in this election and said it was disappointing \'that half the people won't vote in the next election ... each of us must be part of this body politic.\ Quoting Eleanor Roosevelt and John Kennedy in her talk, Ms. Grasso concluded her supportive talk for Carter-Mondale by saying \we must give true meaning to Democracy.\ In terms of Carter's prior experience, Grasso said, \There is no one as well e4uipped as a Governor to be President of the United States. It's a valuable apprenticeship.\ Governor Grasso spoke from her experience as a Congresswoman and m the State House Carter's stand on abortion came to light and Governor Grasso said, \Governor Carter has made an effort to understand ... he hasn't resorted to blatant hypocrisy.\ She was satisfied, as a woman, with Governor Carter's views. Ella Grasso campaigning for Carter A half-hour question and answer period then ensued, which often shifted away from the campaign rhetoric of Ms. Grasso's talk to some issues about Jimmy Carter. Governor Grasso said more people are emotionally \turned on than you think\ by Carter's campaign. Still, political styles have changed from the Kennedy era, \people are watching carefully rather than squealing and jumping.\ On Carter's supposed fuzziness, .1s. Grasso said he was a man of \great sincerity, great concern, willing to ·say something ... sometimes he goofs which denotes he's mortal..willing Speaking on Fritz Mondale, she said, \In my long list of people who would make great Presidents, Friu Mondale is near the top.\ Ms. Grasso stated that areas of child care, the elderly, voca tiona! cd uca tio n and physically handicapped would be concerns of Senator Mondale. Overall, \He will be working very much in those areas in which he was interested in the Senate.\ Someone in SS 016 commented that Carter forces, who once complained of being kept off the New York primary ballot, were now trying to keep Eugene McCarthy from appearing on the ballot. Governor Grasso said, \Everyone is doing it within the realm of the law. Law must be honored, but if McCa;thy can meet requirements - fine.\ Finally, after Governor Grasso admitted that she has been forced to do \unpleasant and distasteful\ things in the Connecticut Statehouse due to certain financial realities, she was asked if Carter might face similar dim realities if he gained the Presidency that would cause him to change or reverse his campaign rhetoric. Governor Grasso said, \I think he may, but he campaigned in good faith.\ Governor Grasso left to enthusiastic applause from the crowd, which may have been a reaction to her, or to the hopes of a Carter administration, or to the forthcoming Friday night Homecoming festivities. At any rate, political enlightenment is always welcome on campus and Speaker's Forum ought to be applauded for their efforts. Economic Issues '76 by ALISON JAMESON On Wednesday, Oct. 20, Union's Chapterof Omicron Delta Epsilon, the International Economics Honor Society, hosted a ga thcring of students and professors in the Davidson Co-op lounge. They met to discuss the differences in the economic policies of President Ford and Jimmy Carter. The purpose of the gathering was to present and clarify some of the issues and raise 4uestions that would lead to discussion. The meeting started with Professors Jim Kenney. Carolyn Kent. Pete Prosper and Shelton Schmidt each speaking briefly on an economic aspect of their choice. Professor Prosper leaned toward the Carter camp and expressed his preference for the Democratic emphasis on selected fiscal policy, a position opposed by the Ford administration's concentration on a broader sweeping monetary policy. He feels that Ford has nut been concerned enough with unemployment, preferring instead to fight inOation more vigorously. Profcs.mr Schmidt approached the economic differences of the candidates from the vantage point of his specialties in the field of economics. When analy1ing public policies, he looks to see which candidate IS most analytical. Industrial organi;ation. his other area of interest, leads him to ask which candidate will do more for anti- trust legislation. Student Forum Taking Core of Business Professor Kenney expressed the opinion that, given the present positions of the candidates, there is no meaningful d1fference in their economic policies. He believes that the make-up of Congress will have more inll uence on economic decisions than will the president, no matter who is elected. by GARY PHILLIPSON Although midterms arc upon us, a majority of Union College ~tudents arc suhmerged in their schoolwork, one organimtion on campus is diligently at work, as>uring that student life outside of academics does not go by the wayside. Jhe Student Forum is charged with the very important task of discussing and formulating policy on all pertinent issues on campus. !'he following is a report on the specific issues discussed at the Forum's October 14 meeting. lhe first order ol business was the Rathskellar Report. f-ounded in 1947, the Skellarwas owned and run hy students. When the decision was made to sell beer in the Skellar. law reyuircd that the business incorporate, and thus overnight. 'tudents tound th~msehes transformed into -.tockholder> ol a corporation. A, a corporation. th~ law rcljuired that at l~:mt two >tockholders' lll~etings he hL'Id during the year \\ tth a certain lJUota in attendance at each n\ecttng. I his task proved burdensome. so the Rathskcllar \\-as sold to the 'tudt:nt l·orum. I his >mailer group facilitated the calling ol thc>L' mandatory meetings. Presently. then. the Student l·orum (JWm the Rathskellar. and an cx~cuti\e hoard O\crsecs the Skellars' operation!-.. I he hoard consi>ts of the rc!.!istrar. th~.: Dean ol Students. ti.Jt• \president of the l.l·.C.. til~ President ol the 'tudcnt hody. th~ tax committee chairman. and two students. !'he increast:d si;c ol sandwiches and the present price of an order of french fries arc 4ucstions the student mcmhcrs of this board should he ra1s1ng. !'he Rathskellar discussion terminated with the promise that a committee will be formed to investigate the new higher prices and to conduct consumer research on the campus. The next topic discussed was the future of the Arts at Union, and what role. if am. the Student F o r u m s h o u I d- p l a y i n determining that future. It was decided that rather than having the Forum issue a statement on the Arts. it would be more effective to work through the indi\ idual Forum members, each of whom occupies a position on a committee or on the All-College Senate. It was also agreed upon that at the next Senate meeting a suggestion would he made to ha\e the Senate L'lwrge ih committees with the task ol initiatmg action in la\(1r of a ne\\ t\rh curnculum. I he last ordn of hu..,incss concerned th~.: pn..,-.ibillt~ of incn:asing -.tulknt 1~1 \ r~1 enue. As 11 nmv qands. L'ach -.tudcnt pays $75 per year fm -.tudent Ia\. Multiplying that amount ttmes approximate!\ 2Jl00 qudents yields a lund- ol ahout $150,000. hen \\-hL·n distributing \\hat it considers to he the hare financial nec~ssitic-. on 1vllid1 a group can operate. the I a\ ( 'nmnllttcc 1s still ha\tllg dilftcult:v dispensmg less than $160,000. One suggest ion made to alleviate the situation was to raise the student tax. In light or last year's ad hoc tax report, which supported a matching funds system lor tax allocation. this idea did not seem to gain much support. Last year's Ad Hoc Committee found that student tax revenues could he raised by putting more emphasis on fund- raising by the individual clubs. Vending machine profits were also considered as a possible sou rcc of income. Alter the meeting ended. Jim !rump, Student Forum Pre~idt:nt. stated his desire for the EXPOSE YOURSELF ON OCT. 27 Come down to the first annual t:nion Expo. It's on Oct. 27 at Carnegie from J to 6 p.m. Expose yourself to the mvsterious world of Student Acti\-ities. See rare and e:o;otic multi-media prt:scntatiom from vour lilloritc cluhs. Gl' I 1:\VOI.VFD! Special mini-performances will he made hy the M~n·s and Women's Cilcc Clubs. Coffee House, Caharet. W Rl !C, and the him Committee. l{um 'n Cider and Free pret1els will be sen·ed. h eryonc is in\ ited. PHOTOGRAPHERS All photographers interested m being part ol the l'nion Book stall should attend a meeting tHJ Tuesday, October 26. at 7:30 1 n the l'nion Book office third llonr Carnegi~. or contact Da\c at 370- 64K5. Student l·orum to get involved in all campus issues this year, rather than confining itself only to student affairs. He urges all those people interested in student life to 11ttend the Forum me<:tings (I hursday nights) and participatt.:\ in shaping student policy. Professor Kent concurred with Professor Kenney in thinking that there really wasn't too much difference in the candidates' economic stands. She fa\ored reducing unemployme~t and leaned toward Carter for this reason, among others.

Page4 CONCORDlENSIS, Wednesday, Oct. 20, 19i6: culture ' • ' • ~ >' • • ' • • • ' --:~' ~ ;:;' I •' • • • ' ,' : ' • ' .! ' ' l . • • ' • ' Stevie Wonder: Worth the Wait \Joe Zolner displayed many of his invisible musi~al instruments at the Homecoming Cabatet last Saturday. - by DAVID MOSKOWITZ After more than two years of complete absence, Stevie Wonder has e~plodt:J back to the forefront of the creative world. \Songs in the Key of Life,\ his long-awaited and oft-delayed double album of new material, has already been dubbed \the best piece of original musical composition of the 70's\ by Boston . After Dark and \exhiJaraHng... amazing ... natural... wonderful\ and \worth it\ by the New York Times' John Rockwell, Th~se favorable reviewers may even be a little over-cautious in their praise of this, the most beautiful record . I've heard. in a long time. And it was worth waiting for. But why a double album? Usually, such an over-abundance of material demonstrates a lack of art1stac discretion, With the musician tossing in aU sorts of Glee Club to Perform Memorial Concert Scheduled On Friday night, September 3rd, the Orfeo Universit;tire Choir of the Central University of Venezuela was en ro1,1.te to a choir festival in Spain when their plane crashed over the Azores, killing all 68 members.. This Friday night, October 22nd, the Union College Men's Glee Club is dedicating their concert with the Schenectady Symphony Orchestra to this·choir's memory. The concert will begin at 8:30 p.m. in Memorial Chapel. Venezuelan Consulate from Boston, the Consulate General of Venezuela out of New York. the Vice Rector from the Central University of Venezuela, and possibly the Venezuelan Ambassador to the United States. Conducted by Mr. Anthony Pezzano. the Schenectady Symphony Orchestra will perform Bernstein's Overture to Candide, Gillis' Symphony 5Yz, and GallsteJli's Waltz, and will be joined by the Men's Glee Club in Randall Thompson's Testament of Freedom. The Teslantent of Freedom was composed in honor of the two hundredth anniversary of the birth of Thomas Jefferson. The texts tbat make up the ·piece are from the followillf!.' writings ·or Jefferson; •• A Summary of the Rights of British America·· ( 1774). ..The Declaration of Causes and Necessity ·of Taking Up Arms .. (July 6, 1775), and a letter to John Adams (September 12, 1821). The cQmposition, a very dynamic and moving work, can be enjoyed by everyone. As a special favor to the Union Community, the Schenectady Symphony Orchestra will be admitting Union College students to the concert free. of charge. For the past year, members .of the Men's Glee Club, under the guidance of Hugh Allen Wilson along with the Wheaton College Glee Club and Charles Fascett. have been negotiating the possibility of a joint concert tour in Venezuela for June, 1977. The tragedy which occurred has shed a new light on the negotiations. On September 22nd, a memorial concert was held in Bosto-n, Mass. Two representatives of the Men's Glee Club, Donald Dennis and Mitchell Blair, were in attendance and were able to meet many officials of the Venezuelan government and members of the Ct\ntral University. Dante Band lead_y In attendance at Friday night's concert will be Senora Mercedes Bermudez de Meyer, the The Union College Dance/ Stage Band is alive, well, and playing. The musicians were organized at the beginning of the term by senior Paul Stefek, and they have been rehearsing each Tuesday night in Arts building Room I 04. The premiere performances of the hand will be on November 5th at 12:30 p.m. at the lunchtime Musicale series. and in concert at Memorial Chapel on November 12th at9:00 p.m. The formation of this band is the result of a great deal of work by Stefek, who has been· trying to Right now, up until Oct. 31st, you can fly 1'oundt1·ip from New York t9 Luxembourg for only $:l60. . Th;it's $106less :th.an the youth fare you'rl pay on any other scheduled a1rhne. (From Chicago you pay $401 and save $11!t) All you have to do is be undet· the age of :!4. There are no booking restrictions. And no skimping on meals or service. Because we give you the same service you'd get from other airlines, without the same high costs. So, if ~·ou're planning on Europe, fly with us on Icelandic. We'll give you more than tht•lowest youth fares. We'll give vou the best deal. See your tra...,el agent or wme to Jcel817dic Alftmes Dept • CN. 630 Ftlth Avenue. NY. NY 10020 Or call toll free· f800J 555·1212. Fares subJect to change Savesl06 onjet fares to Europe and book anytime you want. Icelandic LOWEST JET 1-t\RES TO EtROP£0J' A~l' SCIIEDt'UD 1\IRLI~E. organize this activity since his freshntan year. This band is unique at Union. because it is the only instrumental society on campus that is composed entirely of Union students. The band's repertoire is varied. For their first performances they will play many jazz. rock and P<:JP favorites, everything from the Mamas agd the Papas to Dizzy Gillespie. Presently the band is funded by the Music Department who provides, under the guidance of Professor Edgar Curtis, all the necessary copies of ltlusic. Plans for the band after this term are bein3 arranged. by Paul Stefek at this time. In the winter term he hopes to have a joint concert with the Northeast Youth Orchestra and the Urtion College Men's Glee Club. In the spring he hopes to organize a dance for Parents' Weekend, featuring many of the old favorites from the 1930's and 1940's. However, this is still in the planning stages. Stefek is extremely hopeful for the future of the band after he graduates. Certainly there i$ nothing like it on the Union campus, and the enthusiasm of every one of its me1nbers indicates that the Stage Band will be around for a long time. The members of the band are: Paul Stefek, trumpet and conductor: trumpet: Fred Berkowitz, John Samuelian. .Joe Perrella, Cliff Cohen; saxes: Ross Joel, Jeff Rusik, Fred Abbott, Bob Pennisi, Charlie Bassford. Jeff Amato; trombones: Jerry S;1vagc, Karl Stahl. Thomas Nalli; drums: Joe Cappuccio: gllitars: Ken Needlem~lil. John Fildes: bass: Matt Lubart. last-second filler. Remember the to his black roots and in one song BeaHes' \White Alburn?\ \fhe traces black, white, and Indian Stones' \Exiles on Main Street?'.. history in America before Wonder's prolific music writing·is .cDncluding \it's time we learned different from these (he once said this world was made for aU men.\ in concert that he had been in History of all sorts seems to play such a good mood that day that a big role on the album; on the he had written 5,0 songs in his tri-lingual \Ngiculela~Es una head) and it is this difference that Historia-1 am Singing,\ Wonder allows his records to garner more describes his album as \a history attention than anr artist of tl\e of tomorrow... of love that will 70's. \Songs'' suffers only froltl ~eign over the world.;' On the being overly short. · upbeat \I Wish,\ he reflects hack Wonder's career has been a to his long-gone, but ama?:iQgly roller-coaster one. After y,ears of mischievous childhood in Detroit. following the standard Motown The incredibly beautiful \Joy formula as little ~Stevie Wonder Inside My Tears\ adds to this (\My C'herie Amor\ etc.), h.e tlteme by claiming \you made inherited a large quantity of life's hist9ry; cause you've royalty money that the record brought some joy inside my company had been holding for tears.\ Throughout, Wonder him to receive on his 21st seems to .~ reconciling himself to birthday. This began a period of his own blindness and to the musical independence and hatred in the world that his music personai exploration that hasn't cured, saying that it's time culminated with .. Talking Book'\ 'to ''go past yesterday and start ••tnnervisions\ and just about aU living for today.\ At 25 ye.ars of of 1973's Grammie Awards. Then ag.e, Wonde.r has moved on from followed a near-fatal automobile his younger, more innocent vi~w accident and\Fulfillingness' First of what love can accomplish. in Finale,\ a concert tour, and the real world. Songs like then... the amazing disappearing \Summer Soft'7 actually reach the ac.t. · · p()int of invo~ing In the listener ••songs in the Key of Life.. Wonder's feeling of loss. The two- breaks this long silence, a period part .. Ordinary Pain\ sarcastically that had been filled with cancelled contrasts Wonder's beautiful release-date message a.ftea' memories of lost love with his ex- rnesSilge, as a prolific 24~s()ilg ~ -wife's · bitter view. The list just collection. The album retails for. -g~s on and on until the $13.98. kind of steep for a double co:Dclusion is obvious: Wonder's album, and comes coQlplete with ability to form creative music (in a ••something's Extra\ extended , a time when '\Disco Duck\ tops play .. fifth side'' and a 24·page the charts is unsurpassed. lyric booklet. A reflection. of the Lyrically, the album's songs are impact Wonder has in the musical cryptic poetry that lose a lot field can be seen by the album's without the music to go along reaching number one on the with them. Still, even· in this charts only one week after its departm~nt Wonder has reached release, despite its high cost. maturity since earlier efforts: Everyone will like certain songs .. As around the sun the earth more than others, but they all knows she's revolving, display the trademark Wonder And the rosebuds know to musical \hook\·a melody line so ' bloom in early May; potent that the listener often finds Just as hate knows love's himself whistling tunes that have the cure crept into his head, or running up You can rest your mind assure to strangers begging them · to Fhat I'll be loving you always.\ come listen . to .. Joy Inside My A tot ol the lyr1cs d<ln·t~ fall on Tears.\ their face .-anymore, :and are Wonder's themes on .. Songs\ Temarkable for the depth of are the product of two years of e111otion they contain. Many of personal and philosophical the songs display Wonder's ability gr()wth. He still deals with the to express his own feelings basic desi.re he holds for the through another·s perspective. world: umversal .love {or as he through different kinds ,of calls it in his notes, \love . . . mentalism\). He. remains .faithful Continued on Page 9 THIS WEEKI Professor Bob Wells - Historian and Folk Singer Sharon Rubill and Steve Miles Incidental Music - Tom Howes THURSDAY AT 9:00 AND U:OO P.M. GAME NIGHT Tues., Oct. 26 .... Ptnnpkin Caning Contest INTELLECTUAL CABARET Monday, Od. 25 at 8:30 p.m. Bob Baker, Professor elf Philosophy and Dr. Hans Rosendahl (unioJt elass of ~28, Former Head of Biological Stullies Section at G .E. Research I.ab) will diseuss ''Morals in Medicine'' in the Cabaret Room.

, song Indian before men.\ play on the una will t'he s 'back .. Joy this made you've my to the music time start of from view ·in like the isterwr two- ex- just I the (in are a lot along this rtlt on are of of ·of t:;ONCQRD/ENSfS, Wednesda:Y{: Oct_. 2.0,.1976. '. -- . --~\'+ ·~ -. Gynt Rehearsals Open The Union College Mountebanks' current fall terril prod11ction, Henrik Ibsen's Peer Gyrit, is under the guidance of Alan Wynroth, visiting director from New York City. It will be presented in the Nott Memorial Theatre ,;on November 12, J3, 14, and again on November 1:7~20. The play, presently in rehearsal, is open to the Union College comrtlunity from 9.11 p.m. each week-night. This ffers the cairtj)us the rare •opportunity to view a play fr()m its early stages to the final rehearsals fr~,:e of charge. c&st are: Sandy Adams, Mitch Blair, Lorraine Bohans)<e, Adam Frey, Barb Heiss, Charles Holleman, Vesa. Lapp-alainen, Jayne MaHer. Ann Nicholas, Wanda Nichols, John Rose, Andy Sandler, Peter Sears, George Siletzsky, Louisa Slowiaczek, and Steven Solomon. In casting this show, Mr. Wynroth has done something that ·nas not been tried before. lnste~d ' : ~ :i . • I , ' ' • - ' of casting accotdn'lg . to · one person per part, he has cast the play scene by scene. Hence, there is a different Peer Gynt for each scene ·of the play (there are now about twenty scenes). Mr. Wynroth's direction will emphasize. the work of the actors in this production. To accomplish lhis, Professor Steckler is Page5 culture There are two guest artists at Union tpis falL In addition to director Wynroth, the Theatre Artist Program has hired Ms. Jania Szatanski, costume designer and mask maker, who will oversee costumes and masks for both this production and for the freshman play. _ The rest of the pwduction staff i_s_: Set Designer, Professor Charles Steckler; Lighting Designer, Peter Crames; and ·Publicity Direct<H, Lee Wasserman. designing a set of multi-functional· . , . . ·' . geometric shapes, which the · ·:': · ·· · . · 1 • . . . act~rs will use. to create the Atan Wynroth, For~ground, ;ieads a cast of 16 through rehearsals of Ibsen's Fantsy, varJoUs scenes of the play. . Peer Gynt Directo~ Wyn.roth and his: cast After preliminary aud.itions were hel_d in Septe~ber, a cast of 16 was chosen. Members of the urge 1.\11 interested , peo,p!e to attend any rehearsal for Peer ·Gynt. They are each We.ek night from 9:00-11:00 p.m. in the Nott Memorial. Cabaret Searches for New Talent : ' . \ . ' J . '. Have you alwa)Js wondered wh~ the twin Menaechmi are? So did we. Well; here they are. by LESLIE GOLDSTEIN Some exciting new changes larger pool of campus talent. have taken place in the Union Then, by working with this pool CQI!ege Cab.areL in .recent. w.ee:ks ·of talent -it ·l>lopes to exclude fewer whia_h, .. prt~mise . CY€ryaile · . ....;. people· ·fno>rn the 'Cabaret stage performers and audicnces:alike- ~ ·wh·o. may have lacked tne a higher and refined ca.Jiber of confidence t-o perform. The final sbowman.s-h·ip · each. lh:u:rsday result. · with respect to the n night. attdien~e. is ,th~t a high~r. ca~ibe~ .. lJnder the..Icadcrship O'f,a new performance· will be the locus of program director, Sue Port in. two their attentil,m on thursday new and innovative procedures nights. , will be taking place with respect · Part of the search for campus to finding campt!l'S (alent for the tale111 Wllf a]S() .be''. d~icgated to C'abi1ret stage. Specifical'l'y, the various campus groups. The Cf~b<ifet - wHI ·He es·wt;Hshlng a Cabar<:t stafJ_ wjU b~, c-on~;~¢.ting network j of people who will be all RA's and a numl:ier of UColl serving as talent scouts for Sue. teams and organi~ations to have ·.rhdr· function will be· firsL to them cit'hcr \ugg~~t' any talent contact the individ:uals they they may k.now · of or to even believe to he \Cabaret material\ pcrfmm themselves. F~Jr example, and second, to then .work. ·with .. ~ ... durmjtorJ:}q,a:y~want to occupy them to· develop and r.ef.ine their · the -Cabafiut; shige for an entire act if needed. '· · show. handling all aspects of the ·By \tliis process, lHe ('~ibaR!f show· from incidental music to hopd; ·.to ex tend invitation' to ~·ai MO-- to performers. •' Social Committee News This coming weekend, the Union College Social Committee will present the first annual All-; College party. This dynamic, see and ~e seen event will be held in, M. 'e .. ·.n. aec· h. m. • 1 .. 5 . e·a.·rch· the gym, Saturday evening at 9;3,0 p.m. WRUC will be providing th!;! music, and beer and punch will b~ 3 · • ··.· tO:·' Th~atr~, · :::~.;:~. ~M:::t~:op ~t:~~: by Lee Wasserman On Friday evening. November •• ;. !, ·-,_I,..' For the fourth annual production of the freshman play, the Mountebanks have decided to return to their roots. The original Mountebank of · ~ old was. a' traveling person who mounted a bcndt, or platform. in a public. place and. sold quack medicines. attracting an audience ·by displaying tricks, telling stories~ or invoking spells of magic. This year's freshmen play,. \The twin Menaechmi\ returns the audience to the excitement of an 'era that 'once was, reliving .that true 'Mountebank spirit. ,. \· 0 ' Perhaps the most trtteresting 5th, the committee is planning a track night at Saratoga Harn~ss. Free transportation will be available for \A ;\light at the Races,-~ leaving fr,om Memorial Chapel at 6:30. The cost will be mininial: $2.00 for limited reserved seatin-g and $1.25 for General Admission. For further information, contact Mrs. Marra in the student activities office. Some ·ideas for a chaser include several Cabaret-sponsored shows. In oth€r w0rds, the-Cabaret will enlist the talents of 'writers a'nd perfonilets to present more game shows and perhaps a take-off '\Thursday· Night Live.\ Plus, it has plans to have group birtliday parties. mock weddings, real weddings. divorce courts, and the like. The more absurd the better. People to ,contact' if_you' h.a\e any yuestions. suggestions, or know of ~ome .. ta,lef!t yyu~q l!!se,,to see on stage are as follows: Sue Portin. 370-6702 Sue Finkclstdn. 346-9935 :\1att Brief, _n0-6401 Leslie Goldstein, 370-3039 Adie Carlyle, 370-6428 Marji Cooney, 370-6510 l'{ancy. Levinthal. . 3 70-4205 Liura Massailp. 370-6789 aspect of the proiluction Is that; unlike sho:ws of. the past, this· traveling troupe. Every show will find them performing at a new loca'tion on campus. The specific places have not yet been established, so if you're interested irt having (hem transform your dorm, lounge,, libt'ary, · or other drab facility in a rolling, rollicking, rambunctious revival of ancient Rome, contact Barry Smith. Whert this year's stage manager shouts \Let's· get this show on the ~oad,~' the phrase takes on a whole new world ·of meaning. If you are intere&ted, the show can come t.Q you. Remember. the tbeme for this ptnduction rs '''have stage will traVel.'' b(llnd of troubidors will be a . t·,,. ~,·dt-• ) A third big activity is being Pl<H1ned for the campus. On. Ndvember 20, the committee will hold a nightclub in the Old · ChapeL A Cl\median and dance . hand is being planned and mixed drinks from a well-stocked bar ,will be available. Seating will be reserved, so keep posted for further announcements. · Strong Russian winter many f'itt''J!~Iu of Menaechmus .to dance in the streets to keep warm !

' I ' j' Page6 CONCORDIENSfS, Wednesday, Oct. 20;. 1976 ,.~ ~,.. --· ' ·, .. . ~ . ... ANSWERS NEEDED Last Monday evening the topic for discussio'n at Intellectual Cabaret was \The Role of Sports in an Intellectual Community,\ with Charlie Flanagan, Frank Carlisle, and Ned Harkness acting as panelists. Very quickly, the topic shifted from sports in general to the specifics of Union's hockey program and its effect on the College. Tenure : Still a ttuestieu Since its inception, many rumors have sprung up about Union's hockey program. They range from questions about the amount of expansion in the program to possible transgressions in the admissions process. It was evident that a majority audience (more than triple the Usual lnteUectu.al Cabaret turnout) came specifically with the intent of getting some answers to these questions. Although it is unfortunate that these issues came out at a forum which was ·not conceived for that purpose, it is very .fortunate that several questions did finally come out into the open. The success of Union's hockey team is an accornplishment of which all members of the CoHege community should be proud. However, since many questions have arisen as to how the rapid success was achieved, the whole .hockey program, which should be a unifying factor in the campus, has become a very divisive: issue. Right now on campus there is much conflict between the proponents and ad-versaries of high-level intercollegiate sports, as was reflected in Monday night's discussion. The situation can only worsen until all the unanswe.red questions about admissions, academics and finances in the Hockey program are finally cleared up. If the rumors are true there must be an immediate and thorough investigation of the situation with blame properly affixed. Similarly, if the rumors are false, they must be laid to rest once and for all. This is especially true of the questions concerning discrepancies in the admissions proces& and the adverse effect that a move to Division l might have on future applicants. If true, these factors could destroy the credibility and integrity of Union College as an academic institution and thus dangerously alter its future. It is time for all the involved parties, the Athletic Director, President Bonner, Admissions Department and particular Academic Departments to get together with the campus community and straighten out these rumors. We at Concordy eagerly await further developments and are pr~pared to aid the community in a role as intermediaries and impartial investigators. SECURITY II There has been much debate and controversy over the article entitled \Intruder\ and the editorial \Do You Feel Secure'?'\ both of which appeared in Concordy last week. In light of numerous misunderstandings and rumors, we think that some clarifications are necessary. The information for the article was accumulated from a number of girls living on the fourth floor of North College. At least one account was from a girl who was directly involved, while there were many verifications of supporting details from other source~. The evening after the incident we contacted Security to catalogue their position and hear their report. At the time, however, they did not have a full record of the facts. Our editorial demand for an investigation of the North College incident is not an attack on the campus pol.ice. The affair seems to have been poorly handled on variolls levels, all of which should be included in the study called for. Either Security was lax in its recording of the facts, or the girls were incompetent in recreating the events. Security's handling of the case should be evaluated, but more important, a thorough review of the overall event, which will yield the definitive statement of why the incident occurred and how it could have been avoided, is necessary. Only then can Security, the girls in North, the guard on duty, and the girls immediately involved be either faulted or exonerated. Similarly, we stated that We think that a study of the campus police as a whole is required. This in no way represents our levying of a priori negative judgment. Rather, this reflects our feelings that there should be a definitive position established which clearly delineates Security's relationship to the college. The exact functions and roles of Security must be ~pl·cifically stated. In conjunction with this, the obligations of students for their own and campus security must be made clear. Ma'ly incidents go unreported, and ~tudcnts often oppose strict security measures as a needless and tircsorne inconvenience. It is within the framework thus established that the overall performance of Security must be assessed. Any indictment of Security at this time would be premature. by MA. TT BRIEF If there was one issue that tore apart the College last year and divided students and faculty, it was the ten1.1re process. ln y.ea:rs past,, p!>pttlar professors like Stinebeck of English and Loughlin of Math had been denied te11ure de~pite what seemed like popular student support. The p()t boiled over last year when ProJessor How~:~,rd BeFthold of Psycltology was not given tenure. Not only was his -case questioned. but a petition appeared in 'fhe Campus Voic~ that was si£ned by nearly ene thousand students that questioned the validity of the process and called for a complete revie.w. Tensio11s grew on both the part of the students and the faculty. The faculty felt that students were an integral part of the process, and that the concept of peer . review was sacred. Students, on the other hand, felt locked out and claimed that the process was too mysterious and ill\defined. Perhaps the peak of the tension came at a special Sunday dinner that Presi<lent Bonner held at the Girling Center with about 30 student leaders and about as many faculty. Issues were raised (as were voices), and more ill-will was generated than anything else. The last meeting of the All- College Senate contained a motion to place one senior on all Ad Hoc Tenure Committees. Realizing a public debate would have been acrimonious and \Vithout yucstion, the campus police arc doing a better job ·· .. , ·· . ··· · \ .repetitive, several Senators were informed before the meeting that · Dr. Bohnet had devised some kind of compromise. ht fact, Dr. Bonner did: present a compromise at the meeting. He proposed that the 4 campus trustees (Andy Koblenz, Chris Taylor; Pr,of. Schick, Prof. Thomas) \be asked to consider carefully the problems)nvolved in the current dissatisfaction by · some students with the process or its commun'ication and te. make a report to the President.\ Dr. Bonnet sent a fOFmal letter to the trustees May 28, 1976, charging them with their task. In his letter to the trustees, Bonner said he would consider the report and bring it back to the various groups concerned. The trustees haven't met this year yet to discuss plans for the report, however; one trustee suggested that there are no parameter.s en their actions. Hopefully, we can expect a thorough review af the process. Tonight, at 6, Chris Taylor and Andy Koblenz hold a meeting for students interested in tenure in Strauss Lounge. My guess is that ·the tuvnout ·will be poor; tempers won't t1are until another popular professor is denied tenure in the Spring. Last week in his colunm, Dr. Bonner stated that the tenure system at \ ... Union is among the best organized, most thorough, and flexible I have seen anywhere,\ and that, \students play a critical part in these decisions.'' This may be true, but it doesn't seem like the commission reporting President. of trustees will be t•o an unbiased Dr. Bonner stressed trust in his column, and trust is important in any community, but so is openness. The student trustees are both. capable and able to keep confidentialities, and a futl validation af the process.by them should cert!linly ease deubts in many students' minds. However, if even one of them should find flaws in the system, it should be taken seriously. Too m!Jch is not known about tenure, athletics (witness last year's financial aid revelations), and other programs within the College that~ seem to be running contrary to the spirit e>f Liberal Arts educatio.n at- Union. lnyestigations ought to be thorough, critical, and unbiased. Rumors have proven to be the rule at Union: students, faculty and administration leaders· involved in Union politics and committees owe hard facts and clearer communications to the rest of the community, A tboreugh, open investigation of tenure is necessary and a good place to start. One can only hope the process of self-examination and investigation will he extended to other areas, A small coflege cannot afford whitewashes and shady actiens by the le.aders of any group on campus, ·whether it be in athletic!l, academics, \Or' any aspect of· Union life. · than thev_ have in the past. The attitude of Security officers .riilictito.u:s.to i!le th~t 1 whene:ver ·.w'~'.,say the. .topic. is· .Toctbe,,\Editor.s:. ... , . Q.ffers· t:v.{reshncsw •.. -t;~f·'U:l\'IPfOneh· . artd the Director of Security, Cliff Wood, towards students _is s-po.tts, wee tea,U;y ,w:afl<t ·to:.·taJk On· beoha'Jf ;Oftlle·.:resid~nts.•of. that.i.s, i:nsp.iring,, ,fiiis· s:lresif,on much healthier than it was he fore the force wa:s reordered a:bout,hook~)', .. , B&t wb:at •.. e.xactly .. ,t:).a;v-id.~~, 11 ,,H.otl§.etl W:Q:Uld li>k:e-,to· sen~.ii;n,g .. the jobJe~ll ,b~.elcto,wo.rk~ . · approximately one year ago. ' .. ~out -h!>~~ey. is b.othe.ring t~e . .thank,·:th6s.e·--trew:fa-qult;~r,anddtHliflf ,hi:s p,~,nS<,t:\>>.r.{ederRh-tlbsjd~t·io'Th.·· Lastly, we ~Aould like to congratulate Securny on its :<;am,pQs?)fs not our .great season members •. ~hm. s.e.; .graeio!;\sl:y uf !!ducat.ion. hh req¢gnith:mc of · k last ..,ear, .nor is it that there isn't accent. ed our invitat•i0n ttl a. . tne ' ... .need. · -to control · nuclear handling of the trespassing incident th1s past wee end. The \ · ... ~ l'e: ·, ~.· \ f · .tf4)J;tg,h free- ,skating: hme,. but wc:IO'()ming :wine ·and e·heese party J'H\\~\' btn;at1ort, .. 11ts · ·su~pDl't ·. o a special patrol. which was ihslitutcd after a compl~tint was .SQ,~Ue,thio~.tlli{lf!lloimp 9 r,tan:~,to th\e -he'ld last>Fridayaftli!mocrn.+must,.,·'COI'llii\'l'~tbenslve-- ct1'!lt·it:nta>l-' ··hlil'alt~ made hy a ~lutknt on Fri.day night, proved SliC(;Cssful and (.,~~~·~).Q:t,,.~~·-·;.'R., ·. thv!'tk .til~. \\'e;~tpt!c:ss ·' ·· resulted in the apprchcn~ion of the tra11sgrcs~or 1~cfollowing ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~ night.

Page6 CONCORDIENSIS, Wednesday, Oct. 20, 1976 ANSWERS NEEDED Last Monday evening the topic for discussion at Intellectual Cabaret was \The Role of Sports in an Intellectual Community,\ with Charlie Flanagan, Frank Carlisle, aRd Ned Harkness acting as panelists. Very quickly, the topic shifted from sports in general to the specifics of Union's hockey program and its effect on the College. Since its inception, many rumors have sprung up about Union's hockey program. They range from questions about the amount of expansion in the program to possible transgressions in the admissions process. It was evident that a majority audience (more than triple the usual Intellectual Cabaret turnout) came specifically with the intent of getting some answers to these questions. Although it is unfortunate that these issues came out at a forum which was not conceived for that purpose, it is very fortunate that several questions did finally come out into the open. The success of Union's hockey team is an accomplishment of which all members of the College community should be proud. However, since many questions have arisen as to how the rapid success was achieved, the whole hockey program, which should be a unifying factor in the campus, has become a very divisive· issue. Right now on campus there is much conflict between the proponents and adversaries of high-level intercollegiate sports, as was reflected in Monday night's discussion. The situation can only worsen until all the unanswered questions about admissions, academics and finances in the Hockey program are finally cleared up. If the rumors are true there must be an immediate and thorough investigation of the situation with blame properly affixed. Similarly, if the rumors are false, they must be laid to rest once and for all. This is especially true of the questions concerning discrepancies in the admissions process and the adverse effect that a move to Division 1 might have on future applicants. If true, these factors could destroy the credibility and integrity of P nion College as an academic institution and thus dangerously alter its future. It is time for all the involved parties, the Athletic Director, President Bonner. Admissions Department and particular Academic Departments to get together with the campus community and straighten out these rumors. We at ('oncordy eagerly await further developments and are pr~pared to aid the community m a role as intermediaries and impartial investigators. SECURITY II Thcre has hecn much dehatc and controveny owr the article entitled \Intruder\ and the editorial \Do You l-ecl Secure'?\. hoth of which appeared in Concordy last weck. In light ot numeroth misunderstandings and rumor~. we think that some clarifications are necessary. lh: information tor the article wa' accumulated from a numher ot girb li\ ing on the fourth tloor of :\orth College. At least one account \\as !rom a girl who was directly involwd, whik there were many wrifications of ~upporting details from other sources. !he evening after the incident we contacted Set:nrity to catalogue their position and hear their report. At the time. however. they did not have a full record of the facts. Our editorial demand for an investigation of the :-.lorth College incident is not an attack on the campus police. The affair seems to have been poorly handled on \arious levels, all of which should he included in the study called for. Either Securitv was lax ln its recording of the facts. or the girls were incompetent in recreating the events. Security's hand ling of the case should be evaluated, but more important. a thorough review of the overall event. which will yield the definitive statement of why the incident occurred and how it could have been avoided, is necessary. Only then can Security. the girb in :Sorth, the guard on duty, and the girls immediately involved be either faulted or exonerated. Similarly, we stated that we think that a study of the campus police ao. a whole is re4uired. this in no way represents our levying of a priori negative judgment. Rather. this reflects our feeling~ that there should oe a definitive po~ition e~tahli~hed which clearly delineates Security's rdatwn~lur to the college. I he exact lunctiom and role~ of Security must he ~peciticall~ -.tated. In conjunction with thi~. the nbligations ot ~tudenh lor their own and campu~ security mmt he made clear. :'v1:1'1Y incident:-. go unreported. and -.tudent~ nften upp1he ~trict '.ecurit~ mea'.Ure~ a~ a needless and tiresome inconvenience. It is within the framework thus estahlished that the merall perlormancc of Security must be assessed. :\n~ indictment of Sccurit~ at thi\ time would he premature. Without ljUe-.tH>n. the carnpu\ pollee are doltlg a better Joh than they have in the past. I he attitude of Security officers and the l>ircctor ol Security, Cliff Wood. towards :-.tudents is much healthier than it wa:- hclore the Ioree wa~ reordered approximate!:. one year ago. la-.tly. \\t: \\ould like to congratulate Security on ih handling ol the t re-.pa~\ing Incident thi\ pa'.t weekend. I he ~pt'cial patrol. \d11L'11 '\~'-instituted after a complaint was rnade h:. a -.tudnlt on hid:t) night. prO\ed sucn:ssful and re..,ulted 111 the apprchL'Ihion ol the transgressor tht: lollowing !light. Tenure • • Still a (tuestion by MATT BRIEl<' If there was one issue that tore apart the College last year and divided students and faculty, i:t was the tenure process. In years past,. popular professors like Stineheck of English and Loughlin of Math had been denied tenure despite what seemed like popular student support. repetitive, several Senators were informed before the meeting that· Dr. Bonner had devised some kind of compromise. it doesn't CO·mmtSSIOO reporting President. seem like the of trustees will be to an l:lnbiased The pot boiled over last year when Professor Howard Berthold of Psychology was not given tenure. Not only was his case questioned, but a petition appeared in The Campus Voice that was signed by nearly one thousand students that questioned the validity of the process and called for a complete review. Tensions grew on both the part of the st1:1dents and the faculty. The faculty felt that students were an integral part of the process, and that the concept of peer review was sacred. Students, on the other hand, felt locked out and claimed that the process was too mysterious and ill-defined. Perhaps the peak of the tension came at a special Sunday dinner that President Bonner held at the Girting Center with about 30 student leaders and about as many faculty. Issues were raised (as were voices). and more ill-will was generated than anything else. The last meeting of the All- College Senate contained a motion to place one senior on all Ad Hoc Tenure Committees. Realizing a public debate would have been acrimonious and ETTERS brown cup In fact, Dr. Bonner did preser:1t a compromise at the meeting. He proposed that the 4 campus trustees (Andy Koblenz, Chris Taylor, Prof. Schick, Prof. Thomas) \be asked to consider carefully the problems involved in the current dissatisfaction by · some students with the process or its communication and to make a report to the President.\ Dr. Bonner sent a formal letter !o the trustees May 28, 1976, charging them with their task. In his letter to the trustees, Bonner said he would consider the report and bring it back to the various groups concerned. The trustees haven't met this year yet to discuss plans for the report, however, one trustee suggested that there are no parameters en their actions. Hopefully, we can expect a thorough review of the process. Tonight, at 6, Chris Taylor and Andy Koblenz hold a meeting for students interested in tenure in Strauss Lounge. My guess is that the turnout will be poor; tempers won't flare until another popular professor Is denied teAure in the Spring. Last week in his colunm, Dr. Bonr~er stated that the tenure system at \ ... Union is among the best organized, most thorough, and flexible I have seen anywhere,\ and that, \students play a critical part in these decisions.\ This may be true. but dealings that have been surrounding the hockey program ever since its birth. Many questions have arisen in To the Editors: my mind, as they have in the I would like to publicly express minds of others, as to what's my personal distaste at the way in' really going on. What limitations which John Eklund, president of (if any} arc placed on Coach the Inter-Fraternity Council, has H:trkness'? What requirements handled the awarding of the must the hockey players meet for Brown Cup this year. admission'! What part does the The modifications he has Administration play in the hockey unilaterally imposed upon the program'! Why is hockey not part rules for awarding the trophy of the intercollegiat:e sports have r,endered it totally budget? 1 feel that if this campus meaningless. The Brown Cup, uncertainty could be relieved, awarded by the IFC, is many of the hostile feelings and traditionally given to the negative rumors aboutthe hockey fraternity on campus which best program. as well as its demonstrates the ability to administration, could be purged. l combine academic responsibility think it's about time. H Halpert with a high degree of campus ~ involvement. However, this year, t.h.e va.nisJ.I·.·n·g t·v·y Mr, Eklund's weighing of the I II statistics place mon; importance To the Editors: on the involvement of fraternity men in varsity sports, than on academics or other campus organizations. Dr. Bonner stressed trust in his column, and trust is important in any community, but so is openness. The stuclent tmstees are both capab'le and able to keep confidentialities, and a full validation of the process by them should certainly ease doubts in rnaAy students' minds. However, if even one of them should find flaws iR the system, it should be taken seriously. Too nwch is not kRown about tenure, athletics (witHess last year's financial aid revelatioHs), and other programs within the College that seem to be running contrary to the spirit of Liberal Arts education at Union. Investigations ought to be thorough, critical, and unbiased. Rumors have proven to be the rule at Union: students, faculty and administration leaders involved in Union politics and committees owe hard facts and clearer communications to the rest of the community. A thorough, open investigation of tenure is necessary and a good place to start. One can only hope the process of self-examination and investigation will be extended to other areas. A small college cannot afford whitewashes and shady actions by the leaders of any group on campus, whether it be in athletics, academics, or any aspect of Union life. who chose not· to attend (.out of the thirty-two people invited, less than ten made an appearance). As one of the students who helped plan this event·, this function was designed as an opportUnity for both students and faculty to become acquainted with one another outside the classwom, .• very often a rewarding experience, but one which requi.res the interests of both parties. l would hope that in the future, more of the new faculty and staff come to share tha<t interest. Sincerely. Cammy Lapetina · To the Editors: For many of us here at Union. this November 2 will be ou.r first oppottunity to vote for a U.S. President. How sad that, as .of this moment, polls say that less . than 50 percent of us will take i I I 'I I j I H is my opinion that due to this year's mishandling of the award, more impartial means of awarding it should be explored, such as a fra,ternity 1 faculty panel, or an impartial judge to set up As a member of the coltese community concerned about the appearance of the school, l wottld like to find out why the ivy was recently cut off of the gymnasium. This event took place while several workmen were painting the building's molding and window frames. I truly hope that the cutting was not done simp.ly to make the painting job a :little easier. The cutting has greatly detracted from the building's appearance. Ivy-covered walls ate a symbol nf Union College and add great beauty to the campus. If anything is done concerning the ivy, it ·should be the planting of it, not the destruction of it. advantage of. this opportunity! For those .of us who truly care,-.1---\''r.l this- is clearly a distressing permanent rules. · Thank you. JAMES McPARLAND, '77 hockey cabareted To the Editors:. This Monday's Intellectual Cabaret, \''I he Role of Sports in an Intellectual Community,\ with Ned Harkness, Frank Carlile and Charlie Flanagan. turned out to be a discussion of whether or not the Hockey team shoulp go Division I. It seems ridiculous to me that whenever · V..e say the t.opic ih sports, we really want to talk about hnekcy. But what exactly about hockey is hothering the campus? trs not our great scm.on last year, nor is it that there bn't enough I rcc skating time, but something more important to the school as a totality. I think the prohlcin li~s in the mysterious I would very much appreciate a response from someone who knows the reason that the lvy was removed. tarry Rehr '79 poo.r attendance ' To the f:ditors: situation. People on campus give varying reasons why they don't intend to vote this year, but by far the most common is ''Neither candidate appeal~ to me\ or \There's not much of a choice.\ We feel that people who believe this arc giving in to the ea~kst kind of political apathy. !'hey h!l ve fooled themselves into the belief that both candidates arc alike and that, the.ref ore, they don't have to do anything not even the simple act of getting up and voting. How can anyone truly suggest that there is no diff'erc:ncc between ~he two .major party candidates for President'! Jimmy Carter otTers a freshness n! approach that is inspiring. His stress on sending the johkss back to work, his pJans lor federal su!niditation ol education, hi~ recognition of the need to coni rol tniclear prolilcration, his support of ~\ comprchensiv.e nationctl healt~ insurance program, hiK vision of On behalf of the residents of Davidson Hou,;;e, I would like to thank those new faculty and sta!t mci'llhcrs Who so graciously accepted our invitation to a wclco.ming wine and cheese party held last t riday afternoon. I must express my disapp.ointmcllt, howe\cr, with those members ~--------------------------------------------~, ticW \human\ Amet·ican foreig.

1976 .) rs close to statements appear to discipline. begun to by whereby the third is pay. If s in this ob is then Hill yee should manner all and if of unreli- position Ms. Hill unless into official. policy is counseling with the Personnel there is a lty. \\chich as to why lived lities ha\e a lear ol er fear ol the fact lrorn the a rapport I he should shum his job'?\ answer as Through Laurie summer itude on workers . Basically of \a do not property.\ Stone vandalism allege fire tes to too pus. of their ents, the relax at hen the have to to the hat he 1s results blems 111 say that \winning is pertain towards but the towards before major must be 3 were in this en to the the more They chastising were not influence. to would should kingdom. weekly was the It often j on its se living loved it up this ; ;, CONCORDIENSIS, Wednesday, Oct. 20, 1976 Pagel Bull winkle~ Peanuts Tonight, live from the WiHiam and Mary College, it's tHe Adventures of Rocky and BuUwirnkle the Moose from Michiga11. With Mr. Peanut, the Dole Bamna, Fritz the Ritz, a:nd the staff of NABC nudes asking their revealing qtiestions. \Rock this is the last debate that I'H miss my limousine.\ By Jay Hobart Clayton Quimby Ajax IU alias Rich Budd \Look Bullwinkle, I just wrote this crap U)il so I can make you · look smart for once. Now where's your Robert Redford face'!\ '\Arf arf, arf, arf, arf.\ \Down Fri:tz, down,\ said Mr. Peanut, \first let hitn make a fool of himself, then you can bite him in the leg.\ \Mr. PeaBut,\ a Playboy bunnie came onto the stage, \it's time for you to brush your teeth again.\ \This is the last debate, period, BHNwinkle. This is the last chance we have from preventing Mr. Peanut from taking over your home and the only way we're going to stop him is to make him , look dumber than you are.\ · \Oh-oh I made a ~oo•boo.\ \Now what did it say'? l11ner Tibet isR't dominated by Red China'!\ \No I left it back at the hotel.\ \You left your face back there.\ The moderator did a double take. \Please not in public,\ he said. \I just about have that moose out of the way now. The place will be mine and the Son:th shall rise again --i11 the East. Yuk, Bot Ultra-Brite again.\ \Have you ever looked at your love life lately in the pol·ls'!\ Will Mr. Pean1:1t move into B1:11lwinkle's house'? Will Rocky stop the forces of the movement? Will the USA fiAally get what it asked for? We'll find out in How Coes Debate? -- or Mr. Peanut Cracks Up. \Dah.\ \Stop making an ass of yourself, that belongs to Mr. Peanut, now we have only 5 minutes before the moderator introduces you. I wrote you a fact sheet to 1:1se against Mr. Peanut,\ Rocky said, as he turned to leave. \After East Europe, I can't trust your mind anymore.\ \There's only one thing, Rock.\ \What is it, Bullwinkle?\ \I can't understand anything in this fact sheet, I can't get GNP, the CIA, the UMCA ... \ \Neither do the American people, you clod. That's why you're supposed to read it.\ \But what does this stuff mean'?'' by TODD MILLER At lnst. the normally collected pre-med student was baboling llll.:oherentlv into the phone. Hetween S(;b~ of fear and panic. he told the powers that he at the Security Office that there were 2 monsters using the urinals in the Wehster House main floor hathroom. Security reacted skeptically. hut attempted to calm the youth down. He merely -,creamed maniacally and hung up the phone. Sensing that something was v.rong, Security dispatched a car to the remote Webster Home dormitory. It was appmxirnatcly policy -~ all of this promises a posiNve change from the present administration's policies. We have examined Carter's policies and find that he is by far the .superior of the two candidates. But we are genuinely concerned that Union College communitY finds \no difference'' between c·arter and his opponent. We strongly urge them to re- examine the candidates and are confident that they will agree that the !Jest eand idatc for president is Jimmy Carter. Sincerely. Concerned Students for Carter loo,klng for a few good' men To the EdUors !\!though my gr.ire may seem new to the editodal pages, it is widespread. hut hccausc of the ~ubject matter, not often, Ri1d I \Rock I was too busy trying to hail the taxi to get the face. nl tell yotl this is the last debate ... \ \Get up on the pod.ium!\ \Are you coming up with me, Rock?\ \BuHwinkle you're a big moose now, besides I have to go into the audience to steal posters from Mr. Peanut's friends. Look, why can't the Dole Banana come up, he certainly slipped up Fritz.\ And this 4uestion ... Would you, America, in our bicentennial year, support the Yankees, who stand for all we hold dear, liberty, apple pie. and the American dream; or would you support the, Reds, who represent Communism. world domimation, InJUstice, torture, and cruelty to animals. \But the Dole Banana is always peeling himself, that could look embarrassing In front of television.\ Meanwhile. while our heroes were planning their next move, on the other side of the stage, Mr. Peanut was showing his teeth. And Johnny Bench answers ... \But this is the lOOth anniversary of the National l.eague.\ 7:43 when this garbled call came in mer the radio: \Call the Army: call the :\a vy: ca II tht Dean ol Students' lhev are at least 14 feet tall. v.ith huge ruhbery spines along the length ol their oacb! Sweet .Jesu~. 1 ... \ With that. the line went dead. Four hundred miles a.hove the Earth. Commander Vroook's brow was furrowed In puulement. He had allowed h1s 2 top lieutenants to take a potty break nearly 3 hours ago. Why hadn't they returned? Imperial officers Gncrm and Rtiii tipped the !lies up on their pre~sure suits. and ~ighed contentedlv. \It's a ·good thing we didn't bring the child rm !\ LJ uipped the elder V enu~ian, meanmg of think too rarely discussed. I have heard, in my years attending this college, that Union women are inferior to those of Skidmore, Sage, and other so~called schools of higher learning. To turn the tables, as they say, I wish to state that the men attending th.is school should be more thatl satisfied, in !act over.joycd, to meet · the women that they do here. In fact, the men. in my view, are the worst accumulation or male bodies that 1 have experienced in all my years. I realize that I am generalizing, but to dtG the one or two exceptions seems futile here. Although the n<cn may outr1umbcr the women on a ratio of 2:J t'hc main point is quantity v. quality,. and frankly, the quality t{>) outrageously low. ()n nights when I have renewed faith in the lJ hi on male. I am continually disappointed. I feel that I am capable, but my Ptlrtners urc always horittg. immature, <~hd too passive. l do not know how many times I have said that it's not the meat. hut the motion! I refuse t<> be a mere pencil sharpener, and wur!>e. that it v.a~ a gond thing that they didn't haw an accident in the sracc~hip. Hecamc of their chemica I constitution. \enusiam haw multi-tunctl!1nal urogenital structures which make the processes lll birth and urination some\\. hat analogoth. I hl'Y then ~1niled at a haplcs~ stuuent v. ho had wandered in·to t hL· ha throom, and then \ <mis hed heavenward in the gently whoosh of a transporter beam. When the hack up Security car ha<..l arriwd. all they found was a frightened ~tudent and a slightly nu mh Sew ritv officer. Reau t h~ official entry: \Interplanetary mnmt~is acting rowdy in Webster House main floor la\atory approx. 7:43. Escorted oft campus.\ would like to meet some ''real\ men. I t,hink that since I am almost finished with my college career, I should tell you, Union men, to improve your style; maybe even start all over again, because most of you have given me many a banal, and tiring night without the reward~ I 1:1suaHy expect from such ventur~s. I just hope that the men I met outside this nursery school are still around to g1ve me the satisfaction I am accustom.ed to when away from college. It is unfortunate that most men {perhaps. (. sh.ould say \boys\} here think themselves intense, dramatic, and sensuous lovers, but really, you should face the facts. You lack the movement that excites! The only thing 1 can say is that you need practice. at1d lots .of it. As for vou women, rntt}'be you qul p~rsuac.Ie .the Social C~>mmittec to arrange mixers with Williams, Hamilton. or Colgate. You can take mv word for it, the mct1 there reall} h<n ~ something to offer. Xaviera (pen name} . . . a bout pride FROM THE- PRESIDENT'S DESK In my opening talks this fall to the faculty, new students, and alumni of the Col,lege, I have stressed the theme of pride. Too often the Union community seems to dwell - at times almost lovingly - on the mistakes and weaknesses that are a part of our common life. We do have problems and differences, but I believe they are being faced. We Have critics and naysayers among us; we must prove them wrong. We do face an uncertain future in private education in this col:lntry; we must try to lead the way. At times there are those who insist on telling us that our educational cup is half empty but do not seem to notice that it is also half full. With John Gardner I believe strongly that only those institutions will survive and grow that see problems as opportunities and not provocations to despair. The times ahead are tough and without pride. self-confidence, and trust in each other we shall lose the enormous adv~ntages that are ours. We have much to be proud of. To new students I have talked of the College's history, its thousands of remarkable graduates, and the progress and movements in our own time. This is the oldest college chartered under the Regents in New York State. Here was started the first planned campus in the United States, the first full curriculum in science, the first use of modern languages as an alternative to Greek, the first social fraternities still in existence, the first program in engineering in a liberal setting, and the first serious work in electrical engineering. From Union College went forth an unparalleled stream of graduates who bet:lmc outstanding public leaders. including the mo~t famous president of Brown University and the first presidents of Iowa, Michigan. Illinois, Vassar, Smith, Trinity. and countless other~. For more than a decade Eliphalet Nott served as President of both Union and R.P.I.! But in our own time we are striving again to make Union one of the most talked-of colleges in the country. Consider the ne\1. lning Chair and the contributions of its first occupant; the Baker Lectures. whose beginning attracted the highest olficiab of the Metropolitan and the Morgan Lihrary; the magnificent A~.:hilles Rink and th~ remarkable growth of attention it has brought to th1~ College; the vastly imp roved rate of annual giving that i~ the emv ot e\ en sister college: the growth of imponant ne\1. programs with ·l'nion University: the \(ream of campus visitors from Carter to Davan. trom Saoin to Bcnny Cioo<..lman; the new sense of communuv l1;sten:d b\ the Dutch Hollow: and the forward planning in budgeting and educational program that is unparalleled in colleges nf trw. ~i;c lJUst last week Barbara ~ev.cll of Wellesley asked 11 she could spend sc\eral <.lays here to stUd} it). Yes. we have much tn be proud ol. \\'IHl among us did not kcl ,t ~urge of pride last v.eek at the announccrncnt that a t· nion graduate of 1946 in physic~ had v.on the Co\eted ~ohel Prite 111 mediL·inc'.' It is no1 Pollyannish or unrealistic to :-.uggest that nur future b brig:.t if we can only ~.:ome to belic\c in ourselves and grasr tilL· ad\antages that are nurs. I o dwell too much on the ob\ 1om problems, to emy programs more successful than our o\\n. to look for selfish motiYes in others v.hile concealing them 111 oursel\es 1:-. on!\ to weaken the resohe needed lor greatness and to Ctlnsume cnornHHI~' amounts of time in dealing with the petty. the pcc\ish. and the personal. My goal is to sec every student. graduate. and ta~.:ulty memher share· in the pride that should be ours. !he potential lo1 excellence here is unmatched. We have proven that we can make the tough decisions, plan for the distant future. build strong leader~hip throughout the College. and make things happt:n. I.et us all rcmemher what is good and strong about this place a:-. v.c lace mto the storms ahead. union college 11 , concor01ens1s h:Jlurc' edttnr ( uliure cdllPr Cop\ edrtor Ru ... me'' rnanagc..'h ('(a\\lf ll'tf, t'dltOI Suh\-npt~<>n' t'd!lor la',<>Ut edttnr. Photngraph\ ed11111 -\rt edrt,,r Pnetr~ l'dlttH St..Jll thh \\11· fl' \\'' l.i \ nu~.e ltltnnd! lll~ttt hflc..'! !!lcnn Vddf..,t111 ,l!lJ\ 'hepp.trJ mur ... hall V..l\llll.li.\l' !lltlk·c .ill\ !It' PfiCt' ''''''·''I.!! her holt II\ h,tlpt'T! m.trth.l r uhen,rctn h•dJ millt't h.!! Tl\ h.tlpdt II ant-) !lllll rill r 1d1 ;:u.u d 1.111 lt-'lf . .' r \\ ~.,·, ...... dcl,tnnt.' ,•,q.:~·nt.ill )til,' .tt..h.•,, l~·dl~i :~~~ ... .-l:l~ol.ll, hJ..tJ k.c,,k~r. tlldllt'lll,.' ktdltl. lr.tn i\·1~rr. marla lu\, k.ucn 'P·tt .. nlll'i..\\ ,t~.,·o:l. sue ekstrom, h.trh,u.t ,ll'rn. ~,.·!i~o.'dr th~.ll~i.l'· n.tn~,.·~ leldmdn, .tm\ p~·r!\n .. ltlltlll.J.rk\1\\JI/, ,hd t'.u,q: ( \aJcndar I I~ 1\ P~ I fliiH, CO~CORDIE\'oSI~ b publio,hed l'ler! \\ t•tfm·,da~ h~ tht· ~tudent bod} of I nion ( ollfge. Old t.~m lhll. !->du•ntdud~. Ne\ \ ork.; to \hich I'm tal ~ orn1' JS7'1 art· dtr~cted. Publication~ Offke: The Je'l\ hh \\ orld Puhlicatiuth, 41!> O..,mllh ~t., Schenectad,, '· \. 12J05 t.170·5411J). I· nten·d 111 the Schenectad) Po~t Office a' Se,·ond ( lu-., \lattt·r. !->ulhrrtpltun Rate 35 cents 1>er cop), $10. a ~ear delhered an}\hNe in the United States.

o. 1976 !!ftj ... ' ·~ \\ uperv1sors s close to ;tatements appear to discipllne. begun to ·oblem by , whereby erbal; the 1e third is mt p~y. If in this 1b is then ·J;y Hill ·ee should rmnner aH ted, and if >f unreli- s p.osition Ms. Hitl unless es into official. policy is ounseli.ng 1 with the Personnel there is a ty, which as to why en't lived ties have a 'fear of r fear of the fact from the 1 rapport ary. The y should shuns his joi?'!'' 1dents .nswer as ometimes Through Laurie summer 1derstand itude on : workers Basically ;ists of \a · o do not 'roperty.\ er Stone tmentary. andalism 11lege fire es to too us. 1f their nts, the 1 relax at ten the Jn't haye tempt to fills.\ ~ to the tilt he is esults -- 'lems in >ay that 'winning s pertain towards Jut the towards 1t before d, major must be ~ 3 1rs were in this n to the mgst the I more m. They hastising were not nfluence. pted to o would ;ponsible o should :ingdom. :entrated weekly dom was ntial the It often on its e living oved it e up this B . :. .••. . • kl p· .. · \' t -U' WIJ.I e~ _ eaoa s Tonight, live from the William and Mary College, it's the Adventures of Rocky and Bullwinkle the Moose from Michigan. With Mr. Peanut, the Dille Banana, f.ritz the Ritz, and the staff ·of N ABC nudes asking their reveaJing questions. \Rock this is the last debate that I'll miss my limousine.'' \This is the last_debate, period, 'Bullwinkle. This is the last chance we have from preventing Mr. :Peanut from taking over your home an.d the only way we're going to stop him is to ma,ke him! look dumber than you are.\ \Dah.\ \Stop making an ass · of yourself, that belongs to Mr. Peanut, now we ha:ve only 5 minutes before the moderator .introduces you. I wrote you a fact sheet to use against Mr. Peanut,\ Rocky said, as. he turned to leave. \After East Europe, I can't trust your mind anymore.'' \There's only one thing, Rock.\ \What is it, Bullwinkle'!'' \1 can't understand anything in this fact sheet, l can't get GNP, the CIA, the UMCA ... \ \Neither do the American people, you clod. That's why you're supposed to read it.\ ''But what does this stuff mean'!\ ·' by TODD MILLER At first, the normally collected pre-med student- Was babbling incoherently into the phone. Between sobs ·Of fear and panic, ~e tol.~ the ~owers that be at the Security Office that there were 2 monsters using the urinals in the Webster House main floor bathroom. Security reacted skeptically, but attempted to calm the youth down. He merely screamed maniacally and hung up the phone. Sensing that something was wrong, Security dispatched a car to the remote Webster House dormitory. lt was appmximately By Jay Hobart 'Clayton ·. Quimby Ajax lU aUas Rich Budd ' ' ...-.4, \Look BuUwinkle, I just wrote this crap up so 1 can make you · look smart for once. Now where 1 s your Robert Redford face?'' \Oh~oh I made a boo .. boo,\ \Now what did it say? Inner Tibet isnlt dominated by Red China'!\ \No •I left it back at the ·hoteL\ \You left your face back there.'' The moderator did a double take. ''Please, not in public,\ he said. \Rock I was too busy trying to hail the taxi to get the face.· hi tell you this is the !Jast debate ... \ \Get up on the podium!'' · \Are you coming up with me, Rock'!\ \Bull.witrkle you're a big moose now; besides l_have to go into the audience to steal posters from Mr. Peanut's friends. Look, why can't the Dole Banana come up, he certainly slipped up Fritz.\ \But the Dole Banana is always peeling himself, that could look embarrassing In front of television.\ Meanwhile, while our heroes were planning their next move, on the other side of the stage, Mr. Peanut was showing his teeth. 7:43 when this garbled call came in o:ver the radio: \Call the Army; call the Navy; call the Dean of Students! They are at least 14 feet tall. with huge rubbery spines along the length of their backs! Sweet Jesus. I...'' With that. the line went dead. Four hundred miles above the Ea-rt.h, Commander Vroook's brow was furrowed in puzzlement. He had allowed his 2: top lieutenants to take a potty break nearly 3 hours ago. Why hadn't they returned'! Imperial officers Gnerm and Rtiii zipped the flies up on their pressure suits. and sighed contentedly. \It's a good thing we didn't bring the children!\ quipped the elder Venusian, meaning of \Arf arf, a:rf, arf; arf.\ \Down Fritz, down,\ said Mr. Peanut, \first let him make a fool· of himself, then you can bite him in the Jeg. ;, \Mr. Peanut,\ a Playboy bunnie came onto the stage, \ies time fgr you to brush your teeth again.'' '\l just about have that moose out of the way now. The place will be mine and the Soa.th shaH rise again~in the East. Yuk, not Vltra-Brite again.\ \Have you ever looked at your love life lately in the polls'?\ Will Mr. .Peanut move into Bullwinkle's heuse'? Will Rocky stop the forces of the movement'? Will the USA finally .get what it 'asked for'? We'll fi.nd out in How Goes Debate? - or Mr. Peanut Cracks Up. And this question ... Would you, America, in our bicentennial year, support the Yankees, whe stand for all we hold dear, liberty, apple pie, and the American dream; or wquld you support the , Reds, who represent Communism, world domination, InJUstice, torture, and cruelty to animals. . And Johnny Bench answers ... 1 'But this is the IOO.th anniversary of the National League.\ course, that it was a good thing that they didn't have an accident in the spaceship. Because of their chemical constitution, Venusians have multi-functional urogenital structures which make the processes of birth and urination somewhat analogous. They then smiled at a hapless student who had wandered ill'to the bathroom, and then vanished heavenward in the gently whoosh of a transporter beam. When the backup Security car had arrived, all they found was a frightened student and a slightly numb Security officer. Read the official entry:. \Interplanetary monsters acting rowdy in Webster House main floor lavatory apptox. 7:43. Escorte_d off campus.\ • • • about prid·e FROM T PRESI.DENT'S DESK In tny opening talks this fall to the faculty, new students, and alumni of the College, I have stressed the theme of pride. Too often the Union .community seems to dwell - at times almost lovingly - on the mistakes and weaknesses that are a part of our common life. We do have problems and differences, but I believe they are being faced. We have critics and naysayers among us; we must prove them wrong. We do face an uncertain future in private education in this count,ry; we must try to lead the way. At times there are those who insist on telling us that our educational cup is half empty but do not seem to' notice that it is also half full. With John Gardner I believe st(ongly that only those institutions will survive and grow that see problems as opportunities and not provocations to ·despair. The times ahead are tough and without pride, self-confidence, and trust in each other we shall lose the enormous adv~ntages that are ours. _ We have much to be proud of. To new students l have talked of the College's history, its thousands of remarkable graduates, and the progress and movements in our own time. This is the oldest college chartered under the Regents in New York State. Here was started. the first planned campus in the United States, the first full curriculum in science, the first use of modern languages as an alternative to Greek, the fir.st social fraternities still in existence, the first program in engineering in a liberal setting, and the first serious work in electrical engineering. Fmm Union College went forth an unparalleled stream of graduates who became outstanding public leaders, including the most famous president of Brown University and the first presidents of Iowa, Michigan, Illinois, Vassar, Smith, Trinity, and countless others. For more than a decade Eliphalet Nott served as President of both Union and R.P.l.! But in our own time we are striving again to make Union one of the most talked~of colleges in the country. Consider the new Irving Chair and the co.ntributions of its first occupant; the Baker Lectures, whose beginning attracted the highest officials of the Metropolitan and the Morgan Library; the magnificent Achilles Rink and the remarkable growth of attention it has brought to this College; the vastly improved rate of annual giving that is the envy of every sister college; the growth of important new programs with Union Uni:'ersity; .the stream-;0f campus visitf?t_:S. [Jlom Qa·rter to Dayan, from Sabin to Benny Goodman; the new sense of community fostered by the Dutch Hollow; and the forward planning in budgeting and educational program that Is unparalleled in colleges of this size (just last week Barbara Newell of Wellesley asked if she could spend several days here to study it}. Yes, we have much to be proud of. Who among us did not feel a surge of pride last week at the announcement that a Union graduate of 1946 in physics had won the coveted Nobel Prize in medicine'? It is not Pollyannish or unrealistic to suggest that our future is brigltt if we can only come to believe in ourselves and grasp the advant~ges that are ours. To dwell too much on the obvious problems, to envy programs more successful than our own, to look for selfish motives in others while concealing them in ourselves is only to Weaken the resolve needed for greatness and to consume enormous amounts of time in dealing with the petty, the peevish, and the personal. My goal is to see every student, graduate, and faculty member share· in the pride that should be ours. The potential for excellence here is unmatched. We have proven that we can make the tough decisions, plan for the distant future, build strong leadership throughout the College, and make things happen. Let us all remember what is good and strong about this place as we face into the storms ahead. union collfge · 11 • concor01ensts Editors-in·chief .................................................................. how1e lax m1ke rotond1 News editors ............... , ....................................................... matt bnet glenn wolf~on Features editor ........................................................ cmd} ,heppard . Culture editor. .. ... mar~hall \\Isoff, ioe millet Sports editor' ................................ Lh,trhc !lanagan allyne pnce .................. ,u,an fmkebtein Copy editor .. Business manager'. . .................................................. ~her} llarbcr harris halpert Classificds editor ........ . .. .......... , martha ruhenstein .todd miller Subscriptions editor ................................................ harr.is. halpert Layoui editor,· .......................... , ......... nancy murphy Photography editor ......................... , ............. , .. , ..... m:h guaFdian Art editor...................... .. .................................... le>ter wei~s Poetry editor., ....... . Staff this issue .. .... .......... delanne ,tageman .. .......... Joe ade,, l}dia logclman. brad kessler, marJorie kohn. Iran lorher. marla lux, karen spar, audrq 'tem. §UC ekstrom, h,Hh;lf,! ,(ctll. c·1kc·11 thotllJ' nan'} feldman, . am} pcrl}n • .tnn mar~uv.rtt, lba hari>n Calendar............................ nch hcnuhr CONCORDIENSIS is published eHr) · '\\ednesda) b) the student bod) of Inion College, Old (.;)m Hall, ::0.(hcne(lad), New York.; to which Postal Form~ 3579 arc directed. Publications Office: The Jewish World Publications, 416 Smith ~t., Stheilect~dy, !'I.V. 12305 (370-5483). lntered in the Schenectady Post Office as Second ('lass :\latter. Sub~criptiun Rate 35 cents per copy, SIO. a year delivered anywhere in the United States. '' ., I '' ~ '' i ! ' '' ': I'

' . i • Saturday's homecoming. crowd watchiltg Union's victory over RPI. A Comprehensive Education Subcommittee of the Educational Policy Committee has . been selected to lay the groundwork on · . the study and possible change of. the present General Ed9cation requirements. This body has been formed to collect and initiate ideas and proposals and report these to the EPC. Anyone wishing to provide . input is requested to contact the Stibcommittee; Dean Dave Potts, Sci. & Eng. Bldg. S 100; Prof. Neal Allen, Jr., Dept. of History;.· .. Ronl:!ld Bergmann, Box 391. . (Th~r;e, 1 is .. _pne,,!fa~plty ,;P]ember yet to)?~ s)llect~d~), , . :• !. . ·Foreign Studies Program In recent years, ()nion has (during Winter term) and Austria developed quite an extensive or Germany (during Spring term). array of foreign study programs. The work load is comparable to a These terms abroad have regular trimester at Union; i.e., provided great opportunities in three courses, usually in the areas the field of foreign language and of foreign language, art history the study of foreign cultures. The and contemporary oociety. The programs are offered to ali cost of a term abroad is also students in the college regardless comparable to a term on campus of their major field of study, and and all scholarships apply on the they count toward the fulfillment same basis. To all who are of Comprehensive Education interested, information can be requirements .. Terms abroad are obtained in Humanities 21 I, now offered ~~ England, France Tuesday through Friday between and Italy (dunng FaH tenp only), 1·30 a. r1 .3.:30 p M .· · Greece, Israel~ Slf.li'iii ur ~.o~Qnibia· 1 tl ~ ·: ,P.;1;, : ,., ·', .' ~ · . \ · ··' · , . ;..;?·~~\1otlt>. ~ .. f'.,.JJ•ir~; , .• t 'i'• t ...... , . ; '. .. Get the greiltnew taste· in mocna, coconut, .' il - :J. -' .· \ ' banana· or strawberry. ... ·, ,;. The Portable PartY: JO PROOF AND READY 70 GO Kickers, 30 proof, r&, 1976, Kickers Ltd., Hartford. Conn. . /.' Pre-taw· ·, .,~ .. ·:{, The Pre-:Law Society\ in co.nj·l,lnction, wit,h .. P'rrofe·ssor Joseph Boar:d of the Politi-Cal Science Depar.ttnent, assists students who are interested in law or law re.lated areas. The · 1 following is a list of what we will prov.ide in the ooming year: I) internships and summer jobs for studen•ts in the law offices of Union .alumni, 2) speakers (mainly law pr(lfessors, law students,· judges, politicians, etc.) on various topics. 3) a handbook to assist students in better understanding their chances of acceptance to law scho(')ls, 4) information about law board exams and. law school catalogues (lo be found in the . P.oliti.cal Science Department), and ' 5) a -law board exam preparatory course in .conjunction with other schools in the Consortium. It should be understood that the handbook will be a compilation of .former students' cumulative averages, law board exam scores. law schools app.lied to Qnd law schools accepted at. By means of graphs, we hope to statistically show that Union students fare better than other · students in gaining admission to law . schools as well as by approximately how much. This handbook should :)Upport President Bonner's positiQn that Union is an outstanding pre- professional school as well as a liberaJ.,a,rts school. Volunteers are needed· for putting the handbook together and sheuld .;:ontact Bill Malnick at 3r.O~q.546 in order .to· assist us in ..,this;task,, ,;,,,\ •• t-!) 1 .;., J.::: El~9tio·!.\~1w~t~ tw!:hel9 {tt the end of this terrn · and will . be P.l!blid?~!d .. \ . \' President. and,. Chairman of Handqqok.JliJl. Malnick Vice-Presidemt, Steve Loren Treasurer. and .. Acting Secretary, Joe VanOel.oo . Chairwoman; ot: Put>Hciw aacl ,£ or.r.~,.~:R, p n,.,d ~ r,.~~;.. •P A~ dr,e.!l ';:o,h.a'n(leJI ·· , · · • '· · · · Co-Chairman of Publicity, Neil Sussman - 1 ,: . l ,I ~ • t : Alsur Liquor 'center Liquors - Wines - Cordials 751~ EASTQ~ . .A~t;. ~. · CORNER ~JACKSdi'i' : f/ LOWEST PRICES ALLOWED IN N.Y. s-TAT£' ;FERRo·s- PHARMACY closest to campus <sTUDENT DISCOUNT . _,575 NGa st. 377..... 3464liJ FOB.UQUOR AND WINB ~·; .. T~ ... Jace. L~Pstein's 464 State Street ft,f...l .. Ace Cards & Gifts 175 JAY .STREET SCHENECTADY l?l-2008 . . . . PAWPRINTS - ClORDON FRASER IMAGES· & MEMO BOARDS Placement News :: . .' : \ College Venture Progr~un For many students; the idea of spending part of their college life devoted to off-campus activities has considerable appeaL The ·.College Venture Program provides a way for students to participate in a whole range of ed uca tiona] and practical experiences outside of the classroom without inte~{erri!lg with their college status, The College Venture .Program permits one to take \a leave of absence\ from the campus with college approval and spend from three months to a year working on a paying job, taking part in community service progrl!'ms, traveling, and working abroad. The Venture Program is operated by the Institute for Off~ Campus Experi.ence and Coopetativ:e Education. The Institute- itself is associated with Boston's Northeastern University. The progra li1 is loca Uy administered on campus through the Office of Career Counseling ami Placement where program :inJormaction and job listings are available: ·· ' College· Venture is able to draw ()n Northeastern's IOO~member staff .op employment coordirtators and career counselors, and the Unive·rsity's \job bm1:k\ crf thore t.h.an. 5,000 ... empl.oyment opportunities and off-campus -activities ·aH o'ver·tlie'CottntrY a!rfd .the .:world, ... This arrangem~nt allows· virtually all aeademic disciplines to be served. ·' • · , E'or those ·interested. in \jobs related to their fields bT study, it could mean the opportunity for en.gineering students :to wo'tk for an environmental prot~ction ag.t>:ney; ·for-· a 'bu·siness administration m'ajtW to . ·:gain aecountin:g experience; ·fdf .. a biology · major · H> · work in· a research lab;· or for ari English major. to write for a newspa')jer. rFor others who feel a deep commitment for a public issue or sociaf .cause. the College Venrure Program can offer a place· in a child care center. in a rural medical clinic involved in a preventive health program, 'or with a public interest group concerned with the administration of justice . For others who are just interested in taking some time away from college to satisfy their curiosity about other peop·Ie. 0ther places. other things, they might find them!:!elves on a kibbutz in Israel, on an archeological dig in England, or an independent study program in France, oi' pitching hay on a Kansas farm. Wherever the College Venture Program may lead a student, or whatever that individual ends up doing, the time spent off-campus provides a wealth of experienct!,· knowledge, a·nd self-development which will prove to be beneficial as well as rewarding, If any of the above sounds interesting to you, please stop by the Placement Office and speak to Susanna Miller, John Sollazzo, or David Mendelowitz for further details, John Jessup, the College Venture Program representative, will be at Union on Wednesday anQ Tlmrsday, NQvember 4 and S tQ ·meet with any interested Union stuqents. Students must speak to eiclher Sus~f,I!I;Ja, John, or ibavid· · before .signing up to ma1ke.1•an interview I!PPOintment· W'i~tb .>M~. Jessup. · ,. .. ·1: · .·,,,, ~ ,.,~ ( ( i

rogntm idea of life activities The Program to range of pnctical of the s,~ .Program leave of with pend from working part in programs, abroad. is for Off~ ce and The iated with locally through program are t0 draw and the ' crf t~ore ngellij;!nt academic in \jobs study, it tunity for w61k for prott'!\ct ion bm>iness ·to· 'gairt f<:ir· · a in··a ri English I a deep issue or Ve.nrure · in a a rural in a ·or st group are just time their peop'le, they on a on an ~r m on a Venture or I ends up ff~campus beneficial e sounds stop by j speak to or further College 4and·S Union speak to or ibavid· ma1ke.1•art W'it>h,Mtt. .. :, ~ i' d \ CONCORDIENSfS,· Wednisday, :gct.''20,:J97~~ .. \ ~ _ ·~~ _ ~. _ - . - ' ... -.: z;' -- \'\ -~.. t ..... t· . - - -- -_- ~ ~.~ . - -' '0 , ~age9 en baret Phi Beta Kappa at Cornell. The coach also empilasized how he recruits, stressing the academics of the schoet and ;his use of faculty recq.!iting. Continued from Page l reputa~ion.\ At, . thee end · of.· these presentations, the floor opened up to a spirited and often heated discussion. Professor Underwood, Whose repo:rt was often cited during the discussion, spoke up saying nothing wou,ld be gained by going Division I except an increase in the size (but not quality) of the applicant pool. Furthermore, Underwood stated, \Our academic reputation is in · peril,'' and the \admissions process may be compromised.\ Thurs • ., Oet. 2 I Harkness read a letter from Arthur Meisner, chairman of the English Department at Cornell, wishing him luck in college hockey. Meisner noted Harkness h a d a '' s y m p a t he t i c ad_ministration\ to work with. , Finally, the coach stressed Union's excellence and tradition and said top-notch' sports could only help Union gain popularity. The last featured panelist was Professor Carlile. Defining his stance as \a fairly subtle intellectual argument.\ Carljle proceeded to ask, \What is the role of sports in a small liberal arts cotlege like Union'!'' Harkness rebuked the \image 1 ' charge by saying NESCAC exists \in name only ... Don't center in on hockey.\ Coach Harkness also stated that only 2 NESCAC schools even play Union in Women's Volleyball, Away. 6 p.m. 11VCC, Chemistry Seminar Dr. Eugene 'Schrier will discuss \The Stru.cture o.f Water an.d Biopolymer Conformations\ -:- 4:30 p.m., Science Center, NW Room 116. Administrative and Engineering Systems Collqquium - Speaker, Prof. Leslie Downing, fsychology Dept., Union College will discuss \Cavemen to Superpowers: Carlile spoke of sports as \big business'' and the resulting pressures that ensue. He then cited: the risks of Using sports as a tool of public relation. ·:Will prominence in national sports threaten our reputation'!\ Carlile went on to say, \How do we let peo;ple know that we've maintained our quality'!\ hockey. · , Resolution vs. Dissolution. of .the Prisoner's Dilemma Game.\ 4 p.m., Bailey Hall, Rm. 207. Placement Dr. Richard Tbain, U .. of Chicago, graduate school of Business will discuss How to, Purpose .of, and the Results of Oetting~ on MBA, 7:30 p.m., Soc. Sci. Rm. ·014. The sociology professor ' worried about the magnitude of sports on campus. \What .if sports are autonomous from the College'?': Riskier still would be the College's financial dependency on athleties via alumni support. Carlile urged boundaries where \pressures are resistable.\ At this point, several students chimed in with their views, including members of the hockey team, (who were all in attendance), stud,l;!nt government leaders, student Ad,mission Committee members, swim team members, public relati·ons directors, regu:iar students, and .even a \g·uesf' of Ned Harkness who was insistent on describing U nion~s. attitude toward big time sports as paranoia. M. Stanton Evans, colunmist for the National Review,, and author of Clear and Present Dangers, will speak on behalf of Sen. Jarnes Buckley: 8:30 p.m., Soc. Sci. 016, Students 50¢, Other!! $1. Carlile spoke of school pride: \You can still be proud whether you're in Division I or Division H... Colby 1 Amherst, Hamilton, etc. were academic institutions with which Union ought to be linked. Carlile· 'stressed the importance of Union being known for its academic quality. Quoting heavily fxom Professor Underwood:~s report, (whiGlt cites Union. ranking dead last in mean verbai SAT scores among N.ESC AC schools), Carlile also argue<! that maintaining an academic image was important. SA rs are a factor when· high school seniors begin to consider colleges ... We .must be candid and realistic in ap.praising :our academic r.eputation; we know it's good, but it's not inv.ulnerable.\ After a long presentation. Carlile wound up by saying, •• Academic reputations build very slowly, but.sports can gr.ow very quick... Go slow,\ he suggested. Pres11ures might lead to a bending of standards, and t'he sociologist urged keeping sports on a .. manageable level\ and preserving \Union's modest see.arlty Continued from Page I North was unfortunate, it did bring to light some important and often· neglected problems. First, a training program designed to orient student guards with emergency proced·ures should be instituted as a requirement for all Union College Stude.nt guards. A ra,pe counselling clinic should be arranged to acquaint women with the appropriate numbers and people to contact in ca~e of an intruder. Female students should be made aware of the dangers in leaving their doors unlocked. They should also enlist the aid of their male companions in not leaving self-locking entrances propped open. Girls should not be afraid to, call Security for any problem day or night, beca,use the Campus Police ate concerned with student safety. The Union College campus is not as private as many pe.o.ple Wol,lld like it to be, a:nd it is up to the .stUdents, the administration, and Security, aH working together, to re-establish a feeling of. safety among the inhabitants here. If you .see a door braced open,. o~ a student guard asleep on h.is job, do something. about it; it's for your own go<?d . Basical!~nderneath a maze of contradictory and ofien confused statements, the arguments boiled down to two sides. One side argued that big time sports would give Union the exposure it deserves as a fine academic institution, while the other stressed that to go Division I at a time when we precariously rate last amongst NESCAC schools .in vital statistics such as .SAT's would only damaBe the College. While nothing was setUed except that the means shouldn't serve the ends, tile Cabaret allowed for a he(llthy airing of views despite some discourteous instances. Tile community ought to await anxiously the report of the Athletic· Task Force, which ·will shortly appear (In athletics at the College and make recommendations as to their future {i.e. Division I. leaving NESC A C. athletic facilities). · Joint meeting \ of Women's faculty, administrators and students, 7 p.m., in the Women's Center, 2nd floor, Carnegie Hall. Chemin de Fer, Schenectady Civic Players, 8:30 p.m., 12 So. Church St., Schenectady. 346- 9951 .. (also Oct. 22, 23) \The tvent Hone\ - film. Ladd Hall, Rm. 307 - Skidmore College, Satatoga Springs. 8:00 p.m. - 50~ cents. For info call 5&4-5000 Ex. 63'5~. we•der Continued from Page. 4 symbolism and the like~ Practically every instrument on the album (including a synthesizer that alone takes the place of about 50 instruments) is. played (better _than ever before) by Wonder, with help here and there from assorted singers----George Benson on ••Another Star,\ Stevie's backup group •wonderlove' (an appropriate name), and others. Wonder's mastery of musical styles ranges from a jazzy tribute to Duke Ellington on \Sir Duke .. to a Corea-style instrumental ott \Contusion.\ At one point Wonder sings with the backing of only a cathedral-like organ sound to chastise the lack of feeling for ghetto conditions:. \Children ~lay with rusted cars/ Sores cover the'ir hands/ Politicians laugh and drink-drunk to all demands,\ before contemplatin.g the mortality of love to the tune of ••If It's Magic's Harp\: \If it's magic ... then Why can't it be ever:. Scoh Alarik, singer(·songwriter, at ~ Lively Lucy's Coffeehouse, Skidmore Hall basement, Saratoga Sprin~s. 8:30 p.m. $1;00. For info call 584-5000 Ext. 635. . Ben Murray original, contemporary folk, at ~other's Wine Emporium. Rensselaer Uniof!, RPI, Troy; Free. 8:30 p.m. For infp. - 270-6505. Godspell, Little Theatre, 8 p.m., - Campus Center. Theatre, Siena College. loudonville, 783• 2431. (also Oct. 23.) lasting I I Like the sun that alway$ shines/ Like the poets in this rhyme/ Like the gala·xies in time ... Songs catapult from style to style; on \Pastime Paradise,\ Wonder uses. an exotic, synthesized sound and a series of \-ation .. nouns remini$cent of the Moody Blues' \Procession.\ \Songs\ is Stevie Wonder's best album, but it is not the best album of the 70's as is claimed: it is the best album of the 70's so fu; his last album of this decade will proba.bt:y claim this distinction. Despite \Song's\ Ior.g production rlelays, it is remarkable for its freshness and inspiration. As the most creative artist working in American music today, Wonder's work makes the rest of pop music pale in comparison. calenoar JV Football, Union vs. Albany, 3:30 p.m., Alexander Field. Women's Field Hockey, Union vs. Williams, 4 p.m., Garis Field. Women's Tennis - NYS New Paltz (also Oct. 23, 24) Book Sale - SOrt hardbound, 25¢ paperback, 9:30 a.m., Schaeffer Library. ·Placement - U. of Chicago, graduate school of Business, l.ndividual or groups if necessary. 9 a.m., Placement office. Presidential Debates including faculty and students - free beer and refreshments, Strauss Lounge 9:30 p.m. Pre .. Medical meeting - lecture on Foreign Medical Training for American Students. 4 p.m., SS 016. Sc,henecta:dy Symphony Orc-.estra, w; Union College Glee Club, Bernstein, Gillis, Pardi, . Thompson, 8:30 p.m., Memorial Chapel. 393-5021. Chemin de Fer, Schenectady Civic Players, 8:30 p,m., 12 So. Church St., Schenectady. 346· 9951 (also Oct. 21:, 23.) The Jewish Student Organization Hillel will sponsor a Friday night dinner at 6 p.m., in the Kosher Kitchen in Davidson House. Prof. Berk, of the History Department, will speak about Carter, Ford, and the Jews. Admission will be $2. for members and $3. for non- members. All are welcome to ~tt~nd .. Please call 370-6496 or . 374.:.3281' for reservations, no later than Thursday, Oct. 2'1. Sat., Oe,. 23 Varsity Football, Union vs. Hobart. Away. 2 p.m. Varsity Soecer, Union vs. Trinity, 2 p.m. ·Daley Field. JV Soeeer, Union vs. Albany. Away. ,II a.m. Cto5s Country, NESC;\C at Williams. Away. 12:30 p.m. Film Committee presents Catch 21 7, 9:15, 11:30 p.m. Soc. Sci., Rm. 016. Musieal InterlUde J.P. Keeler, ~A. Stem, H. Greenberg, voice, Violin, piano. 8 p.m., Olana State Historic Site, near Hudson. F tee ·Reservations suggested. 1- 828..0135. Chentin de Fer, Schenectady Civic Players, 8:30 p.m., 12 So. Church St., Schenectady. 346- 995 I. tal so Oct. 21, 2~) Woments Tennis - NYS New Catholic Mass ..... followed by social. 7;30 p.m. Strauss Lounge Bach Aria Group - University Celebrity Series, 3 p.m., Page Hall, SUNY downtown campus, Westem Ave., between Robin and Lake, Albany. $1.25-$3.50. 457- 8606. WoJUen's Tennis - NYS New P~ltz. (Also Oct. 22, 23). Hen., Oet.,. :u; Varsity Soccer, Union vs. New Paltz, 3 p.m. Daley Field. Woinen's Field Hockey, Union vs. Oneonta. Away. 2:30 p.m. Women's Tennis, Union vs. Oneonta. Away. 2:30 p.m. Intellectual Cabaret - Bob Baker, professor of philosophy and Dr. Hans Rozendahl (Union Class of '28, former head of ·Biological Studies Section at G. E. Research Lab, and board member of Albany Medical College) will discuss Morals in Medicine - 8:30 p.m. Cabaret Room. Stephen Lorber realist painter, courtesy of S4tchs Gallery, NYC, will exhibit his works at the New Gallery, Schact Fine Arts Center, Russell Sage College, Troy. Exhibit is open Oct. 25, 4•6 p.m., and 9 a.m. to 5 p.m. weekdays, thereafter. T11es.~ Oet. 20 Cross Country, District 1'., at Albany. Away 3 p.m. Women's Volleyball, Union vs. ·Columbia-Greene, 4;30 p.m. gym. Gary Wills lectures every Tuesday night in SS 016. Cabaret- Game Night. 9 p.m. - I a.m. Science Lecture Series at Schenectady Museum presents Dr. H. Zimmerman of Union College to lecture on Glomar Challenger in the South Allantlc, 8 p.m. Members free, non- members $1. For info: 372-3~86. Bloodmobile - II a.m. - S p.m. Sign up in Student Activities. The International Relations Club will have a general meeting at 7:30 p.m., Strauss Lounge. For info caf .Keith at- J74-2t46. Arris Chalmers - Albany newspaper and TV personality will be ;uest speaker of the Albany-Troy chapter of the Union College Alumni Oub for its monthly lunche.on. For more info: 370-6168. Paltz (also Oct .. 22,24) Vanit) Soc.:er, Union vs. St. Godspell, little Theatre, 8 lawrenee. Away. 3 p.m. p.m., Campus Center Theat~:e, Women's Swimming, Union vs. Siena College, loudonville, 783- Vassar. Away~ 4 p.m. 2431. (Also Oct. 22) Film Committee J'resents -- s . ft .-. & •• 4 P.aper Lion, 7, 9, II p.m. Soc~ II ., ve • • Sci. 016. Film Committee presents Blo«tdmoblle - II a.m. - S Catch ll, 7, 9:i5, 11:30 p.m., Soc. p.m., si~n up in Student Sci. Rm. 016. Acfivities. ,.1.. / ou~ .·\'ue. IS' ::r~ st IIIIIIIJ!Iil C a.n dies Gifl;, lhe£i.s ~rt1,Por~ed. j)ome~~;c, Ctol!hJras ,Bota · '. 1. i' l' i '.

Page 10 Ride needed to Ithaca, N.Y., Thursday 10/21 or Friday 10/22 - ret\uning Sunday, I0/24. Contact Sue 370-6504. Riders Wanted to Amherst, Mass Sunday, OcL 24, Returning Monday Oct. 25. Call Amy-2510. PLACEMENT IIULLETINS What Difference Can An MBA Make? Find out for yourself what a difference an MBA can make. Visit'with Admission Representatives of 70 · top-gradl\ate management schools in one place and attend workshops. Come to the Graduate Management Admission Fair on Thursday, Friday, and Saturday, November 4, 5, 6 at the Roosevelt Hotel in New Yo.rk City. More information in the Placement Office. The Student Activities lounge is now open from 12 to I, noontime, for study and/or relaxation. Someone will also be on duty to supply you with information concerning events for the coming week. Attention all CB radio enthusia~!S: You'll never really \have your ears. on\ until you tune into the exciting world of amateur radio. Find out how you can take your amateur radio license exam right on campus. Just attend the next meeting of W2UC on Wednesday nights at 7:30 p.m. in Haskin's Lab or contact Rich Barnett at 377-4691. The films of Saturday's football game will be shown Thursday at noon in Strauss Lounge. All are welcome. CONCORDIENS/S, Wednesday, Oct~ 2()~ 1976 classifieos · : Tbe ClaSslfled:s Page- of the New . CONCUftl)l.t~sis is primarily I student s.e~ice;' as such, ani .• .. material submitted will be published FREE of charge. To insure t~at the ·it~ms submittecl are printe~, all copy MUST be in by Monday at 8:00 PM. Items to 'be repeated' mqst have the· . number of runs specified. The Union Col~'e CONCORDIENSIS assumes no res;on-sibUJty for . typographical· errors, but will pdnt ~ correction. If you want a ride, or you have s~methl11g to .· . sell, or you si':'ply w~nt to see so~ethlng of your own printed up ln. a, major world pubUeition,. ' . PLEASE, don t hesitate! Tbis Is a FREE. service, so take $d:vantage of it. If you. wfsb .to submit 1 material which conforms to the format of' the Classifieds 0 saPe. siin,.IJ: sUp .it ..._der .the Coneordy _Omee door (3rd floor C~egle) or give to· T_Cic!d Miller, 224 West. · · · . .. . . . ~~ ~· .. Lounge, Carnegie Hall. 3 l'V;s - Free Beer and Refreshments. Sponsored by the Uni(;m College Political Forum. ' UNION COLLEGE PHYSICS DEPARTMENT The Physics Departl!lenl announces a colloquium ~eries, designed for the proverbial \intelligent layman,\ on cosmology, exotic stellar objects, .and ·tQe search for extra-terrestrial life. For the Fall term the titles ofthe tojncs, .the speakers, and the dates are: 1HE BIG BANG THEORY OF THE ORIGIN OF THE UNIVERSE Monday; November 8 - Dr. Ralph Alph~;r, G .. E, R & D. BLACK HOLES. - Monday, November 22 - Dr. Hans Ohanian Phvsics Department, Union College. All Coiloquia me~t .~t-4:30 p.m. in ~he Science and Engineering Center (Room N303) and are preceded by a \coffee- co'?kie\ social which st!lrts at 4:00 p.m. in · Room N303, THE BLOODMOBILE IS CO.I~UNG Tufllday, October Z6 and Wednesday, October 27 Lifesaving (and· timesaving) sppointments can be made at the Student Activities Office in Carnegie Hall, a few steps from the Mail Room. FRESHMEN & NEW TRANS• FE.RS!!! Please· corilpl·ete and return your Orientation Evaluations to the Student Activities Office in Carnegie. If you have 'lost your evaluation form you may pick one up in the Student Activities office. We need· your responses!! Pillows . have been walking out of Strauss Lounge. Please return. DEBATERS DISPUTANTS DISSEMBLERS - DISSIDENTS DISSENTERS - DERELICTS! Join many distinctive Union faculty and students for an evl;!ning of Presidential Debate · Watching followed by Lively Discussion. Friday Night, October October 22nd, 9:30 p.m., Strauss LOST Ivory bangle bracelet, white on outside, orange inside with a silver band. Of sentiiiJental value. If found, please ca11 'Sheryl 370-6480. LOST: Silver Bracelet, Turquoise stone inlay. Most likely lost in Rathskellar. Reward Offered·. Also lost an onyx stone whale's tooth, approximately I inch long. lffound, call 374-6307. For Sale: 1970 ·Javelin 6 Cyl., power $teerrng, 'lery clean, 399-4586. Fo.~ Sale: '67 Cutlass Convertible, Good running condition,. see Andy Chi. Psi 346- 9829. Roommate Neede'd to share a spacious 3 bedroom apartment on Seward Place (behind West College) .. $60~00 per month plus utilities for upper flat including your own big room with a closet, large living room, dining area, kitchen, modern bathroom, front glassed:in porch and large storage areas. Move in now or mid- November and fix your room up for winter and spring terms. If you would like to see the apartment or ask any information ~ call 346·9973 and ask for Joyce. .Attention: Will the girl who lost money in the Administration building last spring, please go see Mr. Deacon (in the same buildjQg} to recover your funds. Barbara - sorry, but happy belated birthd!IY anyway ~ Us. · Laurie - Sorry about the \by\line\ H&M HAPPY HOUR! Stereo For Sale: Technics 2t, 4 channel receiver, 3.5 Watts per channel RMS in stereo, 16 Watts per channel RMS in quad, many nifty features. For a listen and look -best of(er over $2j)O. John. 370-6414. -MSM - Miss and need you- HL Blair just c.annot understand. EVERY FR\D.AY N \6H T 1)1 T~~f . . .. !~J~1HS KELLAR (fL~5 Pr1) t::..!.,C .,r•~:.. , :·.;. ~ -t ~;1;. t F r MICHE.LCB 1~ 20•1 S\-4 L 1 T 1- How would you· !ike to live in Davidson for a term? Roommate wanted for winter term in great Davidso!l Suite. If you're interested, or know of anyone who is, please call Robin at 370-6698 Phil - sorry for any embarassment I've caused you... C!ln I help it if l'm. in to hone:;;ty'? Louisa cher. thank you for the ride to the bus ... 7 -a.m, ~ proof you're a terrific room mate. the question is: when will we manage to eat a meal together?}voo. De!!r Sq~ L. 1 This ·is \your'; persona-l ~ •Love, US. ' To Chickenbutt, turd, ami Ruffian - \Oh the jealousy, the greed · is 'the unra veli!lg ami it undoes all t'he joy that could be.\ · Tl}ank'God.ifs over! i love you alL Wili the owner of a large greenish-grey !iql!id please claim your pet at the Sec11rity Office. We are all afraid of it, and it ·is making yumJlly noises iu us. Sincerely, the entire .Security Staff. Less tha~ ei~ht mopths 'til .graduation;, less than two years 'til.publi:cation. Wart hogs: Tease. me. all y.ou want - I· can take it, ~ Sheh Skwitz: lost all the personals. Sorry. ;Jules; nti disprace. - Hti :fo E'\'l,iryone: Come to the Union Expo 3-6 p.m. at Came&ie on Oct. 21. All .girls who are interested in starting intr~mural athletic activities,. please meet on Library fielcj at 4:30 oh, Friday, Oct .. 22nd. Make sure to bring all necessary equipment: switchblades, machine guns, cannons, ·bows & arrows,. brass knuckles,. etc. We will begin fighting, 1 mean playing, immediately. To R-odgers, Hammerstein, Logan, Sondheirn, · Hamli$1ih, U:art, Bernstein, etc •. If we. pull. it off, you'll be eating your scripts, librettos, scores, sets, etc. in envy. Mar~etta - Birds of a featller flock together- A.S.& B.S. To Harris Chin Up. Your ; application for membership to the P .R.F.C. is still being considered. HH - Thanks for the H.J .. Then will be an meeting of the Welcome Committee Thursday, Smidgen. organizationa I Back · G;o\ TT A Contact J~y The boys of the Webster House pay their deepest respects to FAX at the death of his only .child~· Bear .._ See you at Happy Hour, Goo«) Luck! - Bozo. <.;El·t 1: SE [ CP[~i'1t~L.I I 'J .. v I\.~. q: 10¢ 19'74 Malibu Ciassic - For Sale - A/C, P.S., P.B., radial tires, Red with tan . interior, low mileage, perf. t:ond., Steve - 370-6747. Donald~ Meet you at ~7? dive me a few more weeks. Maybe by then we;ll pass 'Girls of ·Richmond: Are you lonely'? Memorial Chapel doing 60. Louie bored? seeking excitement? longing for r ... l:.'nr\· ,:rs ~.: EARN THE WITH AN GRADUATE FACULTY AT RUT&ERS \ \One of America's .. top Graduate Schools of Business Administration.\ From A Guide to Executive Educatibn in Business Week Magazine Rutgers, The State University, offers you an opportunity to study with one of the nation's most distinguished faculties in management education whether as a full-time or part~ time student. The Rutgers MBA program is one of three in th~ N.Y. Metropolitan Area accredited by the American As- sembly of Collegiate Schools of Business. Trimester study program. Full-time admissions June and September. Part-time admis- sions September and February. Convenient locations on our Newark Campus and in the New BrunswichArea. Paul S. Nadler, Ph.O.-New York University. National Au· ' tharity an Banking. Regular Columnist in The Ameri· can Banker; Author. Consul· tant and Advisor to banks. Sta_te ;mr! fecleral Agencies Professor of Business Ad· ministration. A. Man'eim EI·Meligi, pij,Q, - London University. Inter· nationally known clinical psycholOgist, author. lee· turer. and consultant. Spe· cialist in· leadership beha· vior and problems of trans· cu-ltural communications Professor Of Organization Behavior. s. George Walters. Ph.D.- New York Un,iversity. Eormer top. corporate executive. Jeade.r in Creative. Manage- ment Planning, developer of the school's unique Inter· functional Management Pro- gram. author, Professor of Busih.ess Administration Rosa Oppenheim. Ph. o. -· Polytechrhc lns·titut.e of , s·rooklyn Recipient of the Teacher of the Year Award. Research and Publications rn Mathematical Program· rnrng and Graph Theory. Member Society of Women -Engrneers and Operations Re.search Society of Amer- ICa. Assistant Professor of Business Administration ,---~-------~---1 10 I I, RUTGERS I RUTGERS UNIVERSITY II Graduate School of Business Administration I 92 New Street, Newark, N.J. '>7l02 I Please send me full information on yotJr 1 MBA pi·ogram. I I Name!~-------------- 1! Address I Cit:lf· State Zip __ ·----·-1 , male companionship? or ~imply' looking Steve:, Been ~t you~ r?om twice in a-, - fqr a g.ood time? \ week ... t m pushmg for 3 times ... really. ~ If the answer to these or any other I.a. questions is yes, then you are 'looking for _ andy. doQ't sit on that .counch .. :-you're bound to ruin a good steak. room 214. sue. i really do miss your face. when will we bump into each other? can i have an appointment for 2 weeks? maybe then we~ll be free. - lms trems. when are you going to be around? thanks for use of the phone... you're a sweetie. - the mad caller. Warning - The surgeon general has determined that too much sweet and Lowe may be hazardous to your health (and sanity)! To Union (:'ollege: Y oli're wrong! I'm not cute, I'm really good looking. ~ Phil Rosenblatt. Will any friend of Sue Draper's please come to the Concordy Office on Tues., Oct. 26 to pick up her photo equipment. It has been there all summer and if it is not picked up it willpe .;onfiscated. Whoever lost a hat - call 3 77.7 541. Tell me the style,. col()r, and date and location Jost. the unique services that we provide. Ne)!:t ·time you are overcome by t'hes.e feelings (or any other feelings, for that matter) call John at 6535. Reasonable rates. An equal oppor.!unity employer. WE DELIVER.- To E~ Th~is, you are I! cerl!-lnic bathroom fil{ture. - signed Worki!l• on the Footnotes. Mikey: You're Cute- A.B. •· S~IVitz: I cannot tell a lie,. I'm the mad vomiter- Fax. Hello Glucks. - Guess Who. A Whole year ?!!? Shrimp & Guinea Anniversary!!! -Guess Who! • Happy Applications are now being accepted for an interstellar colonization expedition. Anyone interested, please contact James McParland at 346-9735. Mo - Dill you realize that your fly was,down during all that? . Grau.bart a Sons ..-....~_..-.:._.oi------.··The iay:St. 1.~1~,. 'SeMQt Vnloa .For Three GeneratiOns' l\laJSt. . . . ·t:-·~· w~- ~Restaurant·& Caterers, Inc. . Vf\)· 501 Hattie St., Schenectady, N.Y. 12308 K •tl· t SPECIALS e . . y 5 Tues. night- Draft lJeer 20¢ 9-1; Pitchers $1.50 (518) 346- 5059 Thurs. Night- Ladies Drinl!.s, V 2 Price, 9-1 HAPPY HOUI{ DAlLY 4-6 PM 20¢ off liquor 10¢ off beer Lunch Served Every Day Sandwiches Every Night

personal Secl!rity and it ·is the w.ant ~ I· Expo starting ease meet Oct. necessary guns, knuckles,. n playing, 'Logan, Bernstein, your in envy. flock Your to ·the nizaiional ·frATTA act J~y pay the death Good u lonely'? for looking other oking for_ by thes.e for that cer!).lnic on. the mad Happy accepted James your fly c. CONCORDIENSIS, Wednesday, Oct. 20, 1976 Page 11 ~-------~~------~--------------~~---------------~--~~--~----~~~-~-~.--~--~----~~~~~-----------~---~-----------------------------------~---- -- Cross~ Country Celebrates First 5pOrt5 Victory The Union College Cross- Country team .picked up its first win of the season over Trinity College in a double-dual meet Saturday, Oct. 9, in Wifliamstown, Mass: The runners from .Union beat the runners from Hartford, Conn. by a score of 19- 38. The Williams' team, undefeated rhus far in dual corripetion this year, handed Union a 21-37 loss. )' ' Placing second overall Was Stan Wiskos~i, 34 seconds behind Williams' top runner, Jo Kolb. Peter Petit ran what was his 'best race of this year, and placed fifth. Kevin Scheuer, somewhat bothe.red by muddy cond:itions and what' was at times a ve~y 'heavy rain, placed seventh behind Petit. Rounding out Union's scorers were Marty Dolan and Bob Moffat. Tom BoutgeOl,lS, and recent \walk-on'' Keitll Silva placed ahead of Trinity's fourth and fifth men. This past home-coming Satur-day Union dropped another oite to its number one rival, RPI. This makes the score 27-26 in Union's favor for the number of victories in a, rivalry which dates back to 1925.Union's t~p three, as usual, made a strong showing, placing I, 3, and 5. Stan Wiskoski won with a time of 25:48.4, 15.4 seconds off 4•year intramurals . - Continued fro!\ Page 12 rival Doug Masucci, Kevin Scheuer crossed the line with his fastest time to date,. 26:18. Pete Petit placed. fifth with a time of 27:13, which, altnou.gl'l commendable, was actually a disappointment to the man who, because of his strong. performance at Williams, was chosen last week's ''runner of the week.\ Peter Vielkind, a freshman from the local Mont Pleasant H. S., cut his .time 56 seconds to place lith overall, 4th for Union. M~rty Dolan rounded, out Union's scoring five, ·placing 13th. Unfortunately for Union, Bob Moffat, the team's usual fourth man, had to miss the big meet in order to be at his sister's wedding. These things do happen ... Howie Hersey, freshman ''walk-on\ is closing in on ·6 minutes per mile for five miles, and was only 29 seconds from this mile~tone Saturday. In the strictest' sense, cross- country is a foot race covering a distance of around five miles; the striclhess of the definition, however, does nat extend beyond the notion of distance. As the word • \country\ connotes, most picture cross-. country t!lking place in the country, irl nature. The nicest thing about the sport is ofte-n the beauty of the country being Pete Pettit displays the grin of accomplishment ' crossed. For instance, Union's course does a quick rhapsody through Jackson's Gardens. Hamilton College's course goes about a mil;;: along a winding logging tra:il, which this year was covered with fallen foliage still fresh from the tree in color; the course then followed a golf coul\!:e-more fo}ia~, more :Pretty scenery. -Except for the interlude in Jackson's Gardens, and a short sprint at the start, Union's course consists entirely of pavement. As the tightness of the campus precludes the possibility of a gras::;y or wooqsy alternative, I cannot justly criticize our course, or its designer, Prof. Bick; hut a Vermont bay like me can't call constant concrete .. country,\ nor a kilometer'? What the hell is a k ito meter?) ~o we jogged the course, which led through a cow pasture and a swamp. That good ole New England weather had also left a co?ple days of rain just for our race. So we .ran the race. H was cald. it was wet; we ·~city boys\ wanted to .go home. I remember s'loshing · around in that swamp. I remember taking two strides there, and advancing one. I remember going through the water-logged cow pasture in first, into the woods in first, out of the woods in third. I don't remember the scenery at all. Someone had his shoe sucked off in the swamp, but kept running, I think. Union lost. A cold, wet, shivering, demoralizing defeat to can anyone else for that matter. I Middlebury. 1 s that cross will say this much for pavement, country? though: it is easier and faster to We went to \little ivy,\ run on than logging trails and colonial, pretty Williams. To be golf courses. And . not to be sure, it was an ominous day. entirely hypocritical, I confess my When we left Schenectady it was preference-as will most of your 45 degrees (Fahrenheit!), and Un-ion X-C runners-for easy and when the meet began in fast- rurmiQg above the sloW, Wifiliamstown, it was in ·the 70's. scenic route. We drove out over the 1st mile Middlebury. Progressive, f h · liberal-minded Middlebury . .o t eeours.e, which was a road M'ddl b h' h d , b h {paved) leadmg to a golf course. I e ury, w !C oesn t ot er We entered the golf course. The to. put out mile markers, b.ut entrance was muddy and puddley ·rather prefers to measure 1ts d 1 ' · k'l (H c: . an t 1e grass on the course was course m 1 ometers. . . ow 1ar 1s Pete Vielkind, freshman from Mont Pleasant HS is improving by leaps and bounds, and lowered his time by nearly a minute from his previous best when he placed 4th for Union, lIth overall on Saturday against RPI. He is majoring in Engineering. , Pete. Pettit, . sophomore, for•tlet\ COlonie '·Hs ·distance standout was chosen last week's runner of the week for his strong performance at Williams under adverse co·nditions. He is an Engineering major. ~b'¥t ~ ~~:\P One ofthe backbones of Prof Rick's ha-rriers, Pete Vie/kind Ave. gate, left on Union Ave. sidewalk, left again at Lenox, left again at Nott. West on Nott to gate opposite Diamante's, left into that gate, right at North end of stone wall. Follow road in back of Richmond, proceed to sidewalk in front of West. Run south onto parking lot south of West, then onto Seward Place, south on Seward to Union Street. Left on Union Street, follow sidewalk to Union Ave., then east on Union Ave. to Lenox. Left again at Lenox, run along Lenox to 2nd fraternity house. Left into parking lot, then around south side of hockey rink to lane west of soccer field. Left on road, then Soccer Back on Track onto track in front of Bailey, then by SCOTT HEILBRUNN finish on track on same line as start. The bad luck that has Pool Tournament: On accompanied the Union. Soccer Thursday. Oct. 28 at 8 p.m. in Team in its first three games has Carnegie Hall the 2nd annual appeared to . have disappeared. This past week has shown a pocket pool tournament will be held. All students, faculty and return to the style of play that made the Garnet Booters big staff are welcome. Trophies will winners in 1975. Victories against be presented to the winners. the University of Rochester and Entries are .due in the Intramural Office on or before Oct. 28 . For RPI lifted the team's spirit and should provide the turnaround more information dial 370-6119. that Coach Magee has been Yoga Class: There will be a five searching for. week yoga class for all interested Wednesday afternoon brought students, faculty and staff starting a dark sky and the rumblings of Oct. 27, at 7 p.m. in the Alumni thunder. Neverthdess, the Union Gym. Cost of the course will be squad caine out with an $10 for I 0, hours .of instruction. aggressiveness of play that has Sign-up in the Intramural- characterized them all, season. Recreation l~cated in the Alumni ·.Rochester scored first on halfback Gym. For more information call Tom Ketterer's low driving shot 370-6119. Jjast diving goalie Mark Rekucki . - JfUK_E'S S\J.PERMARKET- 831 EAS'riRN AVE. · 8 _AM ~ 10 PM . · 7.p-AYS Full Une of dell. eold beer and .oc~-. prodliee md arocery. BUSJNE!;)S OPPORTUNITY .( Stuff Envelopes $25.00 PER HUNDRED \ Immediate Earnings Send $tOO To: Envelopes Dept 339A 310 Franklin Street . Boston, Mass. 02110 with 14: 15 ren:Jainifig in the first half. Union continued to press its attack and received a major break when a hand .ball was whistled in the opponent's penalty area. Jim Manning converted l'lfis with 12:'58 left and the game was then tied I to I. The Garnet was given a second chance on a.nother penalty· kick. but the Rochester goalie made a fine diving save on a hard shot by Manning. Sensinr~ a potential victory, Coach Magee's squad came out in the second half fired up and determined to score. George Garivaltis gave' sophomore Peter Handy a beautiful '~ad pass that was promptly shot into the net. ThliS, with 40:49 remaining, Union led 2 to l. The llnion squad was not to be denied and a tough and aggressive defen~e anchored by juniors Mike Smith· and Peter Martini, protected the lead: As the finl;!l secontls ticked off the Union te1f!n had achieved its first victory. Homecoming Weekend's soccer game against RPI is traditionally an. exciting event. In keeping with this trend, Saturday's game proved to be no exception. The match was also important because it was a test to see if Union could make.it two straight. Last weeks hooter of the week, Ira Sutton Tennis con't George Garivaltis opened. the scoring on a perfect indirect kick that Was rifled into the upper tighthand corner of the from Page 12 opponent's goaL The goal was tmt they were the number one assisted by Jim Manning with team in N.Y. State last year, with 21:35 remaining in the first half. many upperclassmen returning Two minutes later at 19:56, Peter this year for. repeat performances. Mai·tini, coming up from his The following match was the first defensive position, shocked the played on the road. This was at RPI team by blasting in a corner Middlebury and they beat Union kick. Exactly three minutes later, 6-1. Nancy Shideler, 5th singles sophomore John Kovacs scored for Union, beat Middlebury's on penalty kick for the third Sally Paxton 7,5, 2:,6, 6-3. Jill Garnet tally. With only 2:36 Schlesinger and Fran Lober, who remaining in the first half, RPI play 2nd doubles for Union, had struck with a fluke goa,! past the a close match, but lost in a tie- outstretched fingertips of goalie breaker. The score was 2-6, 6-7. It Mark Rek ucki. As the half ended. seems that they got stronger in Union led 3 to I. the second set out couldn't hold The second half brought a up in the tie-breaker. disappointing hreakdown in The weather was not so good Union's apparently well oiled on the day of the Middlebury offensive machine. But, once match, so the girls had to utilize again, a stern defense held the the indoot courts. Not all the opposition scoreless. Thus. after surf<lces were the same, some many good scoring opportunities, being in better condition than the game condudcd with the others. This could have hindered Garnet B-ootlers ahead 3 to l. Union's chances hecause the - soggy. No more than 15 yards from the entrance yeu came to a stream, a violent little creature. There was no bridge, because there was usually no stream. We had to jump. It was about 5 feet wide,but its banks were rather mushy too, so jumping was no easy task, especially to those who preferred their feet dry. We then looped around the golf course, which we did twice in the race. There were several slippery spots, all of which were successfully negotiated, since we were only jogging. Althaugh the weather was not as northern Vermontish in Williamstown, thi~ loss was a wet, soggy one to Wi-lliams. We were buoyed up somewhat that we beat Trinity, but nonetheless we weren't able to admit it was really fun, as running five miles is supposed to be. The winning time at Williams was 26:18 for 4.8 miles, which made a minutes per mile pace of 5:29. This pace would have gotten Joe Kolb a sixth place finish last Saturday at the RPI meet. But I guess I'll have to admit it. That kind of running is cross-country running. There's the country, now you goys go and cross it. Maybe that's cross-country in its purest form. Soccer Player of th.e Week Jim Manning is this week's soccer player of the week.' \ ',,_ Jim, a Junior tn- is presently the 5th scorer in Union soccer history, with the potential of taking over 4th spot before the of this year. Very impre.ss.i¥e. considering that Jim is a baci<:\'i~'d that commonly it is the forwards who score goals and receive. assists. Jim scored on a penalty kick against Rochester in Union's win Wednesday, and added 2 assists in the win over RPl on Satu{day. Jim Manning contemplates last weeks two victories Middlebury girls had the home court advantage, along with the fact that they have an experienced team with only one freshman. The next match was at Skidmore. Ms. Vohr had expected Union to win this one, but they lost in some very close matches. Leslie Kent beat C. Schleicher 6-3, 6-4. · AJ.so winners were Jill Schlesinger and Fran Lober over J.D. Tekulsky and A. Sandor 7-6, 6-2. Other scores were B. Foster of Skidmore over Renee Venuti 7- 6, 6-3 and R. Miller of Skidmore over Roberta T opolsky 6-3, 6-4. There are two more away matches and one more at home. Union's overall record is now 4-3. We wish the team much good luck in their remaining matches and in the Easterns which will he played on Oct. 22-24, at i\lcw Paltz with a few girls representing the school. '. I. I: t: I·

Page 12 CONCORDIENSJS, Wednesday, Oct .. 20, 1'976 5ports Cahill's Gridders March to Second Straight by LANCE BOBROW Freshman halfback Rich Romer was the story as he rambled his way for 214 yards helping Union win for the 2nd week in a row with a 19-8 thrashing ofarch-rival RPI before an overflow crowd of 4,500 spectators at Alexander Field. Of course, when anyone runs for over 200 yards, he has had a fantastic day. Howva, it would be unfair to overlook the offensive linemen who sprung many of the holes which enabled Romer to burst free. In this case, the tackles Roger Payne and Ed Kulik were very effective in springing Romer for big gains as they have been recently. Romer rushed for 148 yards by halftime but the Dutc~men could only cling to a 7-0 lead. · The Union scoring drive started from their own 17. Despite being deep in the hole, Romer rushed to the Engineer goal line in only 5 carries, one of them being a nifty 40 yard jaunt. Kurt Hamblet added the PAT to give Union a 7- 0 lead at halftime. Another potential scoring drive was muffed by a fumble at the RPI one foot line. This march covered 85 yards and if anything, wore out the Engineer defense which was on the playing field for most of the first half as the Union defense was continuing its superb play of last week. RPI got a big break when a shanked kickoff was recovered at the Dutchmen 30 on the second- half kickoff. However, two plays later, RPI halfback Carl Wideberg coughed up the football at the Dutchmen II after being belted hard by a Union defender. intramurals INTRAMURAL CROSS-COUNTRY RUN The 5th annual intramural cross-country run will be held on Friday afternoon, Oct. 22. The !- mile women's race begins at 2:45 p.m.; the 2 1 /4 mile open race is scheduled for 3 p.m. Students, faculty, staff and alumni are eligible. Trophies will be presented to the first 3 finishers in the women's and open races, and the first person team in the open; teams represent any group, but teams must be registered as such prior to the race. To register, see Bob Driscoll, Alumni Gym. COURSE DESCRIPTIONS Women's One Mile: Record: 5:36 in 1975 by Ellisa Pariser Begin on road in front of Alumni Gym and proceed south through gate to Union Ave. Turn left on sidewalk to Lenox Road. Left on Lenox Road to N ott Street, left on Nott Street to entrance to Fieldhouse, over lot, proceed through parking lot to road on south side of Fieldhouse, over brook, onto road west of soccer field. Run on to track in front of Bailey to finish on track at same line as start. Open 2% Mile: Record: I I :22 Crawford Cutts 1975 Start in front of Alumni Gym, proceed south through Union Continued on Page t I Immediately, Union turned it touchdown .tho11gh neither of and defensive secondary were around by driving 87 yards. The them scored 1t. The scoring play frozen so Spanfeller saw no RPI runs of Romer and Doug was a 37 yard . play-action pass defender within 20 yards of him Napadano were very important in from Andy Terranova to J·im w.hen he caught .the ball. this march as they set up the Spanfeller. The RPI linebackers Jubuliant Union defensemen rejoice over a ruffled R.P.I.'er Footballers of the Week Defense clearly shown his super10nty on the field this year. Kenny is also a Kenny Beck, is this weeR's potential All-American lacrosse defensive player of the week. His player, and a Junior majoring in outstanding play on Saturday's Math with an incredible 4.0 homecoming match against RPI average. forced the opposition into many fumbles and turnovers which Offense resulted in Union scores. Coming This week's offensive player of off a year of inactivity he has the week_ belongs to none other than the rookie sensation Richard Romer. Although onl:y 5 fe~t 9 inches in stature, Rich plays with the desire of a back twice his size. His 214 yards gained against RPI was an eyelash away from the school record. \Rich\ as his friends call his is undoubtedly one of the reasons the Dutchmen are t:idrng a 2 game win streak. Kenny Beck (left) and Rich romer (Right) outstanding football players of the week. Tough Week for Hockey Women Middlebury College, always being a tough rival for Union College Women~s sports, once again proved difficult as their Field Hockey team edged past Union's by the score of 1-0. Ice cold Vermont weather, and a grassy field, much slower than Union's flat and fast lie.ld,.pro:!Ved to be the downfall of the Garnets. After the Varsity game against Middlebury, Union's J. V, played on the same field against St. Michael's College of Vermont. A team half frozen from sitting on the bench for the duration of the first game, the reSi'ill· was the same: St. Michael's··l; Union-0. Back at home on Garis field this past Saturday, Unicm __ b~at SUNY Potsdam-by-the score 1-0, in front of a sparse Homecoming crowd. Union's goal came once again from high scorer left-wing Muffy Hart. The defense was playing extremely well that game as goalie Debbie Schwartz gained her fii'St shut·out of the season. Traveling to Massachusetts to visit North Adams State on Monday, Union once more chalked up another loss, this time to the jocks from this school. The Phys. Ed. majors. in the .first five minutes of play, scored three quick goals. By the end of the first half, the score was 5..0. The second half was played befter by _ Ul]ion, as they did manage to score a goal. Wing Sharon Cannizzaro hit one towards the goal when the goalie, in an effol't ta stop the shot, knocked it in. North Adams immediately reciprocated, and t-he final score was N. Adams-6: llnion-t. After the J. V. had a home game against Vassar this afternoon, and Varsity has an away game against Russell Sage on Thursday, the girls once again return to Garis Field on Friday to face Williams in their last home game of the season. Please come to the field at 4 p.m. ·on Friday -to see the girls in their final attempt at victory. - Later on in the 3rd period, freshman linebacker Carman Audino recovered an RP'I fum-ble at the Engineer 21. three plays later, Terranova scrambled into the end zone to give Union a 19-0 lead. At this point, the only thing th<tt was in doubt was if Romer would rush for the school rccmd which is held by Sam Hammerstrom who mshed for 236 yards against Rochester ih 1936. Coach Tom, Cahill told the quarterbacks that Romer was close to thj! record but when he called Romer over and asked if he wanted the record, he told Cahill to let someone else carry. Romer said the following which shows a lot of class .as well as dedication: \There'll be other times. It isn't fair to the other guys on the team. Everybody wants to play. It was the whole team blocking out there today. I don't deserve all the credit.\ This observer found it particularly interesting to hear shouts of \Romer for the Heisman, the hleisman for Romer.\ This perhaps is a bit of an exaggeration but it symbolizes a new breed of enthusiasm for the Union sports fan. Looking ahead though, all is not a bed of roses. Union wiU be playing the toughest part of its schedule and will be on the road for the next few weeks. This week, Union will be at Hobart. Union could definitely use some support at this ; foreign stadium. If not, the game will be aired over WRUC. The last time that Union won 3 games in a · row was in 1972. Pe.rhaps this is the year it happens again. Tennis Wins Pair, Loses Pair by PAMELA HASSEN The women at Union rallied to the call of \Tennis Anyone\ with a victory in their first match against Williams' B .team. The overall team score was 6- L The individual scores were as follows.: Leslie Kent, 6-0, 6-1; A nne Kellogg 6-2, 7-5; Barbara Berk over C. Tufts 6-2, 7-5; Roberta T opolsky over L. Jones 6-4, 6-3. Jill Schlesinger lost 4-6, 3-6; Nancy Shideler and Rhonda - K11plan t,-;:;3, ·v-o;-r'ran tober and Renee Venuti over Harvey and Laidlaw 6-o. 6-1. The team strove ahead to beat ::'astleton, 7-0. The next match was slated to be against Sienna: Jut they defaulted once, and then tgain in the rescheduled match. The team lost its momentum in :he next three matches, but in two Jf the matches the competition was really to~;~gh. Colgate's Worriens' team beat Union 7-0, C()ntinued on Page U TomKe In the las involving \\ station) arc been potent not been elf The fact tt solved so fortunate, h might have if not for a Late M<: member of sitting in h WWWD,a S< station, whe1 that it· was hockey radi broadcast. varsity hod that WRU( exclusively, immediately president L asked why 1 in programn Saberski I change and Rink Direct< get the facts broadcasts WRUC's m Saberski's : were under: Coach Har~ that no 1 wri WWWD hac Saberski the phone calls t' the Adminis Department piece togeth Athletic Din told Sabers previously sc

the be biased t in his in SO IS are keep full ythem in find be about last the unning be biased. be the faculty · and and the A ion of good and of it any ... ~\ .4at~$; .. \' Oil• C)'ft .. , . a luslde: Food Servic·e Librai:y ·Problems · Roving R~:porter . ( Maintenanee: .. . .. Vol. 4, No. 1 October 20, 1976 Library Security: Beg, Borrow, or Steal by jonathan kurz and alan stern the various disciplines exists. In a recent survey, psychology and political science are shown to rank at the top of this infamous list of elusive volumes, followed by science and sociology. Oddly enough, engineering hooks seem to remain unscathed in the face of this destruction, with the least problem of loss. A large prop0rtion of these missing volumes do reappear at the end of each term. This action, however, does not absolve the culprits, for the college community has been deprived of the use of these books, and the effectiveness of the library has been thereby reduced. The Department That Needs Fixfng ~ lJninR College is faced with a severe dilemma! No, the Nott is not falling down, and the \brook that bounds\ has not stopped flowing. However, Schaffer Library, which is, without a doubt, the single most important facility on the college campus, is being greatly hampered in its ability to serve the college community. It is the most neglected and abused facility whose maligned condition can be accredited to both the students and the administration. Stolen books and missing articles are chronic problems of the library. However, rhey only represent the effects and tend to overshadow the basic causes. what is stolen?. Part of the problem lies with the administration. Due to financial neglect; protection of library materials is extremely difficult. A case in point is that the library had originally been designed so that the circulation desk was to be located on the ground floor and the reserve desk, a separate entity, was to be placed in the basement. As a result of lack of funds, the circulation desk has yet to be completed, and the reserve desk is thus burdened to serve both functions. The immediate implication of this is that the librarians are not free to watch for the remo.val of unchecked books wtiile tied down to carrying out the~e added obligations. by brad barry and beth ann karlin Dissatisfaction and disappointment have become synonymous with the word \Maintenance\ at Union College. Students have continually been frustrated with the Maintenance Department's lack of immediate attention to minor but aggravating problems. However, most students are unaware of the organizationa I problems that plague the -Maintenance department from within. Through a series of interviews with Walter Stone, Head of Maintenance, Beverly Hill, Head of Personnel. and Laurie Colligan, a Union College summer maintenance employee; we have heen ahle to ascertain wh-at these problems were. The ba'Sic results of these interviews sltow that the major problems of maintenance lie in the need for more expert supervision, which means a need for more qualified foremen. From the interviews with Walter Stone and Beverly f-!ill, we have acquired an understanding of the hiring procedure in reference to the Maintenance Department. In order to hire maintenance personnel, a requisition form must be handed in to the Maintenance Department. Along with this form, the two basic qualifications are listed: the ability to read and to write English. From this point, the prospective candidates are screened by Beverly Hill, and the recommendations are sent to the heads of the various maintenance departments. Once the Department heads receive Ms. aill\ recommertdations, it is their d.uty to interview the candidates. These applicants hail from the local Schenectady area; many of Whom are sent through job agencies, such as tht: Urban League. Often, jobs arc advertised ih the Schenectady Gazette. U11ion College, because it is an insi itut ion, dues not require unionized personnel. Therefore, licensed personnel are not apparent. pr:iorities stated A major comp!aint of the student body IS the mability of maintenance to accomplish simple but annoying tasks, such as inefficient lighting problems, and broken windows. The following is the list of priorities followed by Maintenance: I) NOW: Absolute emergency such as flood, or extensive utility failures. 2) TODAY: Safety, security, or property damages, such as plugged sinks and toilets,. blown fuses, broken doors and windows. which present a security problem. 3) THIS WEEK: Scheduled preventative maintenance such as most minor building repairs and broken or missing furniture. 4) AS SOON AS POSSIBLE: Scheduled repairs or improvements to be scheduled around work of higher priority. 5) Filler projects which should be done but have no short range decline. Jobs four and five must be approved by the Assistant Director of the physical plant; then reviewed and estimated by the lead foreman. organizational incongruities Now that these priorities are set, it is· necessary to question who determines the priorities. This seemed incongruous to us. since it is apparent that the foremen should have the responsi- bilities of determining what gets done where, how, and by whom. The reason that the secretary does ihe foreman's job is because he is bogged down with paper work. Question: If <i foreman's job is to supervise the employees beneath him, why is the supervisor doing the paper work and not the <ictual supervision? Walter Stone recogni7es the incongruity of the situation. He realitcs that the foreman cannot be both in the office .and out in the field making ~ure that the workers are doing their johs. Perhaps if proper job planning was accomplished. then a great deal 0f the paper work could be eliminated. At the hcginning of each day the workers ate giveR a list of assignments. The supervisors arc supposed to check to make sute that the wot·kers have the proper equtpment needed for their day's work. This presents a problem. since the workers begin their day offic.ially Continued on Paf!e 4 . \. - Theft, be it deliberate or inadvertent, has depleted the stacks considerably. Interestingly enough, there seems to be method to this madness. Jt appears that an unequ;J.l distribution among •••• D.U. Agree? ••••• by kenneth wilsker Was the decision to oust DU from Fox based on the one particular incident or on other incidents committed by them and other fraternities preceding this one? Did Dean Smith's decision reveal an anti-fraternity sentiment?Did this decision hurt the reputation of all fraternities on campus? Was the decision fair? These were some of the questions that were raised to students and to Dean Smith. They were also asked if there might be an anti-fraternity attitude growing on carnpus. The fairness and precedent for such a decision was also examined. Those that were familiar with DU know that they had a tendency to get loud and rowdy on occasion; probably more frequently than most. Dean Smith was asked if this would've effected his decision to expel DU from the campus. He said he consciously made his decision considering only what happened. on that parti- cular night. Howe'ver, he recognized that the possibility of DU's reputation had subcon- sciously influenced him. He reiterated that he felt he was ohjective. justification He stated he took this action because of his outrage that DU was so callous and un.::aring by yelling those kind of obscenities I.Qr as long as they did. l-Ie expressed that he is not one who is thin-skinned when it comes to l1hsccnities and gros>ncss. so his outrage proved (at least to him) the seriousness of this incident. Based on the circumstances, Dean Smith thought the action he took was the only dccisilm he could make. , The President of Delta Phi and others have questioned if any other alternatives were considered. The alternative of suspending DU's social rights was one mentioned. Dean Smith responded that other alternatives, such as suspending their social rights, weren't considered. He felt, from past experiences, this alternative would be \unrealistic .impractical, and impossible to administer.\ Without taking this or any other alternatives to mind he made the decision to expel them. 1 student response Dean Smith felt this to be a fair decision. When asked if he had any regrets, he expressed he had none because he believed his action was warranted. Some students interviewed expressed that this decision was unfair. It was thought that forcing a fraternity from where they live was too harsh and U!1Called for. This was the majority opinion, however many believ:d that it Continued on Page 2 ·In response to the problem, many systems have been pn.1posed for the protection' of library materials. They range ·rr.om. the employment of rather expei;J.sive electronic devices, to less expensive student-manned book- check stations. In each case, the administration has demonstrated a distinct rel~ctance to employ them. the practical side On the practical s!de of the problem, we have found several shortcomings in the library's system. Aside from the afore- mentioned incomplete reserve desk, there exists the stubborn policy of binding periodicals instead of placing them on microfilm. Microfilms save space, cost approximately the same as bound peiodicals, artd would be less likely to be abused. Thus microfilm and microfilm reading Continued on Pale l ,.

the will be in his rtant in so is are keep a full them ubts in find be about last ations), the Liberal Union. be be the faculty cs and and to the ty. A tion of good hope ination college and of it or any of elped was for y to one i ng both the tha~ · •. first u.s .. as .of less. take I ! I I ' i I I I. I ., I I , I I I • I care, -J---\\f.'l essing to 's not that that and to the and idates ss on work, ion of ot a healtr of ... ,, \ \ I r i ' .. I I ' i j. ' ! \~ Maintenanee: Vol. 4, No. l October 20, 1976 library Security: Beg, Borrow, or Steal b~ jonathan kurz and alan stt>rn l.'mon t\Dlh:ge 1~ laced \\ith a 'e\ere c.lilemma! \ll. the \ptt '' not fallmg UP\111. and till· \hn't'h. that ht,und, .. ha' !ltl! -.,tt>ppL'll f I o \\ 111 .!-! • II \ \\ t' 1 l' 1 • 'i c h a II e r l1hrar~. 1\11Jdl 1'. V.!\huut a douht. the '1nglc lllt,,t nnporlitnl tacilit) <lll th.: college urnpu,. j, ht:ing great I: ham pt'l <.:d in lh abil1t~ to wnc the t·olkge t:ollllllllllily. It 1' the lllll~t tht: \anous di~ciplincs C'(J..,h. In a recent 'un e). P\) clwlug~ and political -,ciencc are ... hu\1 n to rank at tht: top of thi, infamoth Ji..,t ul t:lu,i\l· \tllume-,. lullu\\ed h~ ~CIL'Ilce and ,pcJolt>g~. Odc.II: enough. engineermg hot>!--' -,cern tt' r~·main un-,catlwJ in the lace of th1' lk-,truction. \\ith the Iea,t p1ohkm uf lu''· ·\large pwpt,rtiPn ol thc..,c flll:-,mg \tdume.., Ju n:,tppcar at the end nf each term. I hi-. <ll'IJon. ho\\t:\cr. Joe.., nut ahsolH the culprih. lor the cnlh:ge cPillllllllllt~ ha' heen dcpriH:d ol the use pf the'e hooks. anc.l the etfecti\eness of the library has het:n thereby reduced. The Department That Needs Fixing ~ neglectt:d and ahmed tacilit: v.hose maligned condition can be at:crt:dited to both the students anc.l the administration. Stolen hoob and rni\ing article' are chronic: prnblerm of tht: library. llowe\er. they only represent tht: ellects and tend to overshadow the basic causes. what is stolen? Part llf the problem lies with the admini,tration. Due to financial neglect, protection of library materials is ex tremel; dilficult. A case in point is that the librar; had originally been designed so that the circulation desk was to be located on the ground !1oor and the reserve desk. a separate entity. was to be placed in the basement. As a result of lack of funds, the circulation desk has yet to be completed. and the reserve desk is thus burdened to serve both functions. rhe immediate implication of this is that the librarians are not free to watch for the removal of unchecked bclllks while tied do\\ n to carrying out these added obligations. by brad barry and beth ann karlin Dissatisfaction and disappointment have become synonymous with the word \Maintenance\ at Union College. Students have continually been frustrated with the Maintenance Department's lack of immediate attention to minor but aggravating problems. However. most students arc unaware of the organizational problems that plague the Maintenance department from within. Through a series of interviews with Walter Stone, Head of Maintenance. Beverly HilL Head of Personnel. and Laurie Colligan. a l!nitm College summer maintenance employee: we have been ahle to ascertain what these pwhlems were. The ha'Sic results of these inteniews show that the major problems of maintenance lie in the need tor more expert supervision, which means a need for more 4ualified foremen. From the intcniews V\ith Walter Stone and Beverly Hill, we have ac4uired an understanding of the hiring procedure in reference to the Maintenance Department. In order to hire maintenance personnel, a re4 uisition form must be handed in to the Maintenance Department. Along with this form, the two basic qualifications are listed: the ability to read and to write English. From this point, the prospective candidates arc screened by Beverly Hill. and the recommendations arc sent to the heads of the various maintenance departments. Once the Department heads receive Ms. Hill's recommendations, it is their duty to intenie\\ the candidates. these applicants hail I rom the local Schenectady area: man~ ot whom are ,en! through joh agencu:,. such as the Urhan League. Orten. jobs are ad\ertised in the Schenectady Gazette. Union College, because it is an institution, doe~ not reljuire unionited personnel. I hcrefore. licensed per~onnel are not apparent. priorities stated A major complaint ol tht: ~tudent body 1s the 1nahility ol maintenam:c to accomplish ,imple hut annoying tasks. such as inefficient lighting problems. and broken windows. rhc following i~ the list of priorities followed by Maintenance: I) NOW: Absolute emergency such as flood. or extensive utility failures. 2) TODAY: Safety. security. or property damages. ~uch a> plugged sinks and toilets. blown fuses. broken doors and windows which present a securit) probkm. 3) I HIS WEEK: Scheduled preventati\e maintenance such as most minor building repairs and broken or missmg furniture. 4)AS SOO;\; AS POSSIBLE Scheduled repair> or irnpnnements to he schcdukd around work ot higher priority. 5) Filler project:-; which ~hould he done hut ha\e no short range decline. Jobs four and five must he approved hy the Assistant Director of the phys1cal plant: then reviewed and estimated hy the lead foreman. organizational incongruities Now that these priorities are set. it is necessary to question who determines the priorities. This seemed incongruous to us. since it is apparent that the foremen should have the responsi- bilities of determiniNg what gets done where. how, and by whom. The reason that the secretary doc> the foreman's job is because he i> hogged down \\it h paper work. Question: If a foreman's joh is to supen ise the employees benca th him, why is the supervisor doing the paper \\ork and not the actual su pe rvis ion') Walter Stone recogni1es the incongruity of the situatilln. f Ic reali1es that the foreman cannot be both in the Pflice and out 1n the field making ... ure that the \\tHkcrs are doing their JllO,. Perhaps it proper job planning was accomplished. tht•n a great deal ol the paper work could he elimmated. At the heginmng ol each day the \\orkcrs are gi\Cn a list ot assignments. I hl' supenisor~ are ~upposed to check to make sure that the \\orker> ha\e the proper e4u1pment needed for their day\ v.urk. I hi~ presents a problem since the workers begin their day officially Continue~ on Page 4 I heft. be it deliberate or inad\ertent. has depleted the ~tacks considerably. Interesting!) enough, there seems to he method to this madness. It appears that an unequal distribution among ............ ,. ... D. U. Agree? ••••• b:y kenneth wilsker Was the decision to oust DU !rom Fox based on the one particular incident or on other incidents committed by them and other fraternities preceding this one? Did Dean Smith's decision re\eal an anti-fraternity sentiment'! Did this decision hurt the reputation nf all fraternities on campu-;'! Was the deci>ion fair') lhese were some of the 4ue~tiom that wen: raised to students and to Dean Smith. they were also asked if there might be an anti-fraternity attitude gro\\ ing on campus. I he tairnes~ and precedent for :,uch a decision was also t:xamincd. Those that were tarniliar with DU know that they had a tendency to get loud and rowdy on occasion; probably more frequently than most. Dean Smith was asked it this would'\c effected his decision to expel OU from the campus. He said he consciously made his dt:cision considering only what happened on that parti- cular night. H owcver, he recogni;ed that the pos~ibility of [) ll's reputation had ~uhcon­ >Ciou~ly influenced him. He reit<:rated that he felt he was objective. justification He stated he took this action because of his outrage that DU wa~ so callous and uncaring by yelling those kind ul obscenities lor as long as they did. He c:'l.pre\ed that he 1s not one who is thin·skinncd v.hen it comes to o b>cenit ics and grossness. so his outrage prmed (at lca!o>t to him) the seriousness lll this mddent. Based on the circumstances. Dean Smith thought the al'tion he took \\as the only decision he could make. I he Pn:>ident of Delta Phi and others have 4uestioned if any other alternatives were considered. The alternative of suspending DU's social rights was one mentioned. Dean Smith re~pondcd that other alternatives, sut:h as suspending their social rights, v.eren't considered. He felt, from past experiences. this alternati\e v.ould he ··unrealistic, .impractical. and impossible to administer.\ Withllut taking this or any other altcrnati>cs to mind he made the decision to expel them. ·student response Dean Smith felt this to be a fair decision. When asked if he had any regrets. he expressed he had none because he believed his action was warranted. Some students interviewed expressed that this decision was unfair. It was thought that forcing a fraternity from where they live was too harsh and uncalled for. This was the majority opinion, however many believed that it Continued on Page 2 In response to the problem. many s)sterns have been propo~ed for the protection' of librar) materials. They range fr.om the employment of rather cxpen_-;iH electronic devices. ttl less expensi\c :,tudent-manned book- check 'tatiom. In each ca~e. the administration has demomtrated a distinct reluctance to ernplo) them. the practical side On the practical s!de of the problem. we have found se\eral shortcomings in the library's system. Aside from the afore- mentioned incomplete reserve desk, there exists the stubborn policy of binding periodicals instead of placing them on microfilm. Microfilms saw space. cost approximately the same as bound peiodicals. and would b<: less likely to be abused. Thus microfilm and microfilm_ reading Continued on Paee 2

' . . I . ! Page 2 *** U . . .. lllOlllZillg *** by michael kramer Walking around Union's grounds it becomes very evident that there is a great concern and emphasis on \'development.\ W he t he r it be i n t he beautification of the campus itself, the area of academics, 0r the social atmosphere, it is clear that Union is a place that is committed to attempt change in ways the college sees fit. This is where the \development\ aspect of Union's growth as an institution falls short. It falls short not in the notion that it is ineffective, but falls short of its full potential considering the population which we havt: ava.ilab.le as resources. To maximize ourselves as a truly concerned and caring environment where all take part in some aspect of our community, we each have to first be concerned enough to care then to act. If we don't care, if we don't realize that by not caring what happens at Union, we are in fact,. not caring what happens to ourselves, we are doing ourselves a great injustice. For it is not Union ~hat suffers, it is only ourselves. It's four years of our lives that is at stake. Union will be in Schenectady when a lot of us will not. Union, in its attempt to foster a more open and receptive community that encounters a variety of aspects of life, has adopted programs that run the gambit from Intellectual Ca·barets to Intramural Sports competition. The emphasis of the Student Center is to have students communicate and share experience with each other and faculty in a variety of settings outside traditional housing and classroom settings. It has been my experience at Union that students are quick to criticize but are slow to act. in cases where a student or group of student·s desire things that are not available, they find it easier to comment on the inability of the institution to offer those desired services rather than to invest energy and alter the system. \The try it you might like it\ attitude really never caught on. Injustice Pressure Cooker • the 1n by ruth rappaport A few times last year, The Voice was accused of not reporting any of the positive aspects of the college. Many of the positive aspects need not even be spoken. We have all chosen .to study at Union because of the obvious advantages of a school this size. One fact remains clear to us at the paper, and that is the intense p.ressure seen on all levels at Union. Professors worry over the performance of their jobs and where it will get them. Students tend to worry that their studies won't lead them into their favored·- care~rs. We worry about money. Students complain about the spending of either their own or their parents' thousands on basic comforts that they feel they are not receiving: proper eating facilities, dormitory arrangements, library sources, athletic facilities, student activities, etc. (Union students complain more than they try to help. If you stop to consider it, a Union student need not be bored). Often these pressures drive people- into acting in their own self-interests, often denying others the leeway we all must deserve. At The Voi~e we feel that all persons studying and working at the college must be heard. When we appear \negative\ perhaps it results from viewing all the injustice in this pressure cooker. A nineteenth century lawyer /educator Carl Hilty said, \The best thing against worry is to take care of others right away.\ We report to you the voice of Union. Underlying all of this, we see the need to join together and act as the \family\ Union prides itself on being. ~~MM: STAFF: brad barry, ira goodman, laurie hinton, jonathan kurz, robin Iebow, seth okun, jan rosker, alan stern, Iori watter, kenneth wilsker PHOTO STAFFj hans heilman, robin Iebow, jay levy, susan lightr •an, william malnick EDITORIAL BOARD: beth ann karlin, michael kramer, ruth rappaport, richard a. siegel PHOTOGRAPHY EDITOR: alan stern ·· Union:College.Campus Voic-e October 20, 1976 The p.rocess that occurs at Union is that, when something is introduced that is alien to the attitudes of students and can withstand the tests of attack and abuse, then maybe it will be tried. This same attitude is demonstrated by the way students view other students. One of the major gripes I have heard while being at Uniori is that the student population is not diverse enough. I too held that to be a private gripe of my own, but have since realized it not to be founded. The conflict appears when there is a diversity of opinion expressed rather that when a majority are in full agreement. When someone does commit themself on an issue, that individual is not heard as having something constructive to say. Rather, he is immediately interpreted as being destructive to the system because .of his diversity. Diversity is fully acceptable as long as it does not interfere with a person's own system of beliefs. I feel that it is totally . impossible for a community with approximately 2000 peo'ple to be in agreement or consensus, but is not impossible for everyone to respect each other's rights; to be different as long as one demands that righl for himself. Union can offer forums for discussion, social events for relaxation, opportunities and activities_ to experience, but if we as students do not make use of these facilities we are the ones who are creating the system by which we live. ,Beg, Borrow, or Steal Continued fr.om Page l instruments would be a useful and very valuable asset. Through these means, we believe, the . library's resources can be better preserved. In the long run, the solution to these problems of misuse and waste will come through supple-' mentary education. We applaud the efforts being made to O·rient incoming freshmen as to the real meaning and value of the library in a college. Dean of Students, Mark Smith, is fully in favor of ·this attitude change by means of education. He believes that its effectiveness would hinge on its acceptability by students involved directly in campus activities and then it would diffuse throughout the college. \Most students really want to be part of an institution . that is essentially intellectual. I think that they are proud to be.\ Once students are confronted with the problem of t\ depleted supply of reference materials, they may become frustrated and discontented. These feelings may lead the student to believe that he is part of a second-rate institution. We believe that as the campus can be minimized. Equally crucial is the atmosphere that exists within this facility. Specifically, the library does not need costly detection devices that would produce a high security information bank. Funds allocated to such an approa<;h could be better used to establish student-manned check-out desks and a functional temperature control unit. The education of students is the direction in: which we must head. The installation of devices would only tend to stifle an otherwise creative atmosphere. Up until now, these problems. have received little attention because the service~. provided by the library have been ade~uate. But adequacy for such an integral part of the community is critically insufficient. Such a facility necessitates outstandif\g quality of service for a community with sucq high standards. While we believe that a substantial shift in financial pnonttes is called for, the students are the ones who hold the fate of the library in their hands. quality of the l.ibrary improves, · the attitudes of these within the •-------••••-. college community will tend to follow. . an intellectual facility We do not believe that the importance of the library as the The Campus Voice meets every Monday at 7:30 in the Student Activities Office primary intellectual facWty on. ·-----•••--• .. .. * • .. * .... , Lost Fraternity .. .. .. .. .. .. .. 1 Continued from Pa2e 1 wa~ a fair decision and even advocated that it should have been done a long time ago. Another maj.or question stemming from this incident that concerns traternity members greatly is did this reflect an anti- fraternity feeling of Dean Smith. A cot~ple of · the students I interviewed, some of whom weren't fraternity members, thought that this decision showed signs of an anti-fraternity sentiment. Dean Smith assured me that he is certainly anything but anti-fraternity. His decision was based on that incident and not because he was against fraternities. He mentioned that he was a member of a fraternity when in college and would have no reason to be anti-fraternity here at Union. Fraternities now are paranoid that if they make a mistake they will have to be punished as DU Was. They believed that this decision set a precedent for other such decisions. Dean Smith responded that there isn't a need for paranoia because he reviews each incident separately. He stated he wouldn't be forced into a similar action JUSt because he made this particular decision against DU. The last major issue to be considered herein is whether the incident and subsequent decision may have hurt the normally \good\ reputation of fraternities among students. The students questioned replied it didn't hurt fraternities as a whole. Dean Smith expressed his hope it didn't hurt. aut he also claimed that if he hadn't acted as he did, people on campus would think that fraternities could do anything to anybody and get away with it, He felt it would have been detrimental if he ba~n·t acted as he did. This controversy will.'continue, until a decision is reached whether or not to reinstate them. Most of us agreed that some drastic· disciplinary action had to be taken. Yet, whether the right decision was made remains to be seen. !cruel and unusual Personally, I feel this decision to be ctueJ and unusual punishment. With more consjderation, a more equitable. yet still tough decision could have been made by Dean Smith. However, it is my opinion that this decision was made with the hope that it would eliminate tile possibility of anything like this from happening again in the future. I feel confident that this decision does rtot reflect an anti- fraternity sentiment of Dean Smith. ·He felt what he did was necessary. Hopefully, this decision doesn't set a dangerous precedent for future mishaps .by other chapters. This remains to be seen. I don't think that any other fraternity or Dl::J will engage in something as serious as what prompted this latest decision. I would agree with other students thaf this incident was art isolated one and not one that will hurt the predominantly good reputation of fraternities on th!s campus. I hope that irr the &uture there won't be any other serious incidents ~;ommitted 'by anyone on campus. I also hope that DU will be back • :>gether on campus for the sake of its brothers, fraternities as a whole, and the campus community in general.

sphere facility. not ices that security Funds establish desks of in which lation of to stifle by dequate. integral critically facility of sucq believe financial the hO hold m their meets in the • t d have Smith. that the the this in the this anti- Dean was this .by to be other in what ion. other was ari hat will good I hope on't be be back sake as a . Octob~r 2~, 19?6 Uni9n; College p_.~pus Voire Page 3 HOme J Suite_ Home A Feud-al Kingdom - by ira g(}odman . . . By the time the end ofa Union it also creates a major problem: student's sophomore year rolls space. 1-Javing all your personal a·round, !.hou~htsjf moving o,ff effects in a . _roomtbatservesas ca,mpus tnvanaMy start dancmg _bedroom, hvmg room, and through om7:s~'mind. With those . kitchen (in some cases) often gives t h o ugh t_,s' go the tl sua I the feeling of living in ;:t closet. A considerations one has to deal loft can help, but it is not always with in making a decisioN about feasible. nw.ving from the campus grcmnds There is of course, a-nother side inte the streets of Sc,:henectady. of the coin in this issue. The flip reasons There are many legitimate reasons for moving off campus. Some students move off because their financial status dictates that they do so. With ·increasing donn costs, there is. a heed to find an inexpensive place to live. There is certainly no question that in. the majority of cases, an off\campus apar-tment or' house is significantly less expensive than a dorm. If cost does not play a .role in one's decision, there are other factors that do so.. Many people are di.ssatisfied with the environment the dorms. possess. In a word, they're cold. Cinder block or plaster walls along with assembly line furniture and harsh fluorescent I igh tin.g are hardly the ideal living conditions for most people. It is difficult to create. a homey atmosphere in a place put together in such- a manner. The feeling of transiency is almost impossible to eliminate. An apartment or house of.f- campus can be just like a home if one is willing to put the effort inte it. A lack of kitchen facilities in many of the dorms only emphasizes this point. problems A prob'lem almost every person experiences in the dorm from the first day he or she moves in as a freshman is the lack of privacy, for themselves, their act'ions, and thoughts. (I'm talking about the grapevine.) Also, having to brush your teeth and showering with four or five other people is not the most enjoyable pastime for many. An apartment or house provides much of the privacy some find essential to their existence, as well as a nice quiet place to get some work d(me. lack of space Althou.e:h having a single is a _partial help in,relieving these woes, side deals more with the ,mental or emotional aspects of one's decision about residency during the school year. Isolation The major drawback to off- campus living can be stated in a word: isolation: particularly isolation from one's friends. Even though most off-campus residences are a short walk from the college grounds, visiting is much less convenient and requires. much more of a conscious effort than does a quick j_aunt down the hall or to a neighboring dorm. If you live off-campus, you have to be secure in knowing either that your friends will visit you anyway, you'll be willing to visit them all the time, or that you don't care .if you see your friends (if you have any). Also, the feeling of camaraderie some floors experience is lost in the move off campus. Another aspect of the feeling of isolation is that one feels much less like member of the college community than when living on campus because contact with the campus is severely limited. It becomes a conscious dicision to 'go to campus' .whereas before, the thought was nonexistent. The feeling of being·. a commuter becomes prevalent, and to some, this is distastefuL lack .of safety A significant drawback (in some cases) to a move off campus is safety. The city of Schenectady is hardly the El Dorado of the Easlern seaboard. (If you haven't 1:ead Can.dide, I'm trying to say that the streets surrounding the school can be dangerous.) Also, if you live off campus, you are no longer under the jurisdiction of the Union College security force (snicker), but the Schenectady Police· Department. The result being that some of the activities that on-campus residents are used ·to getting away with are no longer protected by the fe nee surrounding the grounds. Because the above points mean different things to different people, it is impossible to m~ke a -blanket statement as to which mode of .residem:y is superior. Although it is a little early in the year to start thinking about next year's accommodations, if one carefully evaluates what is important for his or her self, they will know whether or not they wa.nt to participate in the room lottery when spring term roils around. by richard a. siegel Many years ago, in a land not far from here, there existed a kingdom that was distinctive in many ways. Its buildings were laid out around an oddly shaped circula-r structure, which was named after the founder of the kingdom. Living within this kingdom was a lively and diversified collection of nobles, subjects and peasants. The present King was mainly occupied with the task of convincing people that his kingdom \was too as fine a place as other better known kingdoms.\ He was quite dedicated to this project, and would frequently travel around the surrounding region expressing this to whomever would listen. After one speech, ho·wever, he was overheard wishing, \If only I could build another arena.\ The members of the kingdom were generally satisfied with their king. knights The knights of the kingdom were a lively bunch. They actively participated in the affairs of the kingdom. They were very aware of their power and jealously guarded it from attacks by the peasants. Their most sacred right was their power to force newer nobles out of their kingdom. These knights spent a good part of their time in their respective chambers, whe.re they received the peasants. Many knights · frequently took' advantage of the servic,:.§_J}f the female _peasants Saga of Union College Food by Iori walter order to satisfy the student, a better rapport is necessary. A and robin Iebow misunderstanding of the grading Saga Food Service has been the system has caused much subject of much negative criticism animosity towards the food in. recent years. Rumors as to service. However, the true facts their abolition are widespread. are generally unknown. Each ' Last year's policies changed so school account that Saga has is frequently that many people were individualized and the grade of left in a state of constant food offered is dependant upon confusion. Despite the many how much the student is willing problems of last year, Saga was to pliy. To get better food, the given a one year contract for the price of the meal plan must be 1976-1977 school term. The increased. existing management has decided The managers have encouraged to concentrate on the reevaluation open channels between students and ~mprovement of the present and Saga to tty to clear up some system. This new policy is aimed of these misco!lceptions. They at getting to the cause of the urged freshmen to use the problems .of institutionalized food suggestion board in an ~ffort to and creating a new positive better understand their customer's attitude towards it. - needs and wants. For example, Gary Hipp, the food service the management has been director of Saga, has been working with officials- to try to working diligently .in instituting work out an improved schedule to various reforms. eliminate the problem of The major change from last overcrowding during the two year's system is the end of the prime lunch hours. They are also option system which caused a trying to foster better relations great deal of grief on the part of through student-run both students and Saga. In its organizations. The policy of the, place, coupon boo'ks are now management, as stated in their offered· These books help brochure, is that \cheerfulness students to save .. money arid still and cooperativeness take on a maintain t11e flexibility .of options. particular significance when they Another improvement is (the food service managers) are directed at communication. ·ln trying to satisfy everyone's particular needs. In return, you will receive individual attention to your particular suggestion.\ Better de a I ings with the maintenance department has allowed Saga to provide improved services which have ended some of the previously existing .problems. There has also been a staff reorganization. New and experienced cooks, along with better working hours have created a more efficient kitchen service. One last improvement is that of the appearance ol West Cafeteria. A beverage bar .. has recently been installed with a new salad bar soon to follow. Redecoration plans, part of which include new carpeting, are underway. :future at Union When asked about the future of Saga at Union, Mr. Hipp replied that he felt no other management could do any 'better. Even with the proposed plans for improvement there are still some intrinsic problems that remain m the system.. There is just not enough · kitchen space to accommodate the number of people that must be served. Mr. Hipp feels that there are no holes in his operation and that Saga is doing the best job possible with - the provisions that are ava,ilable. Unfortunately, the student can't see what goes on behind the scenes and the food on his plate is the result of the deficiencies in the facilities, not m . the food program. the Management of Saga desires a positive attitude and is working at dispelling the negative preconceptions that are attached to institutionalized food. The only way this can be done is if the students let Saga know what is and oftei1 spent more time rolling than they did working. This was common knowledge throughout the kingdom, and little was ever said about this. The maidens of this kingdom, however, were not allowed this J:?rivilege.. It was considered strictly Verboten, which they bitterly resented. One defiant maiden was rumored to have ignored these prohibitions, and was subsequently excommunicated from her castle and her kingdom. security In the past lew years, security has become a problem in the kingdom. No longer was it possible to leave entrances unattended, for vagrants began to wander into others' quarters. The new military leaders were brought in to deal with this matter. After many hours of consulting the oracle, a solution to the problem was found. The military immediately began to \get tough\ with illegally parked chariots. No longer would the kingdom tolerate such an offense. From that day on, any individual caught leaving his chariot in the wrong place was to be lashed 2 times. The government clans were headed by odd fellows. The clan responsible for excommunicating various members from the kingdom was lead by a very colorful character. Whenever he spoke, he prefaced his remarks by making a point of stating, \We mt~st remain open-minded on this question.\ Oddly enough, as he proceeded to speak, it became readily apparent that he believed that his ideas were the only ones worth considering. Not many people understood this. The peasants in this kingdom readily accepted a second class status. The majority were. seen walking to and from the buildings at regular intervals. In certain buildings they sat docilely. and recorded on tablets what the knights and dames were saying. When they did talk, they repeated the same question again and again, \How can I be dubbed a knight?\ This quest for knighthood was the main concern and they endured many tortures for this purposl. Perhaps the most treacherous competition was to be anointed with the Merlin Degree. This M.D. unfortunately caused a part of the kingdom to become very divided from the rest. Only the Continued on Page 4 wrong and what changes they desire. The opportunity to improve the situation is there and any dissatisfaction is due to the students' lack of concern. Saga is willing · to cooperate, but the students must be willing to help. Instead of complaining, Union College should reexamine the situation, understand that it is the facilities and not the program which is at fault, and take positive action towards improving the existing provisions. :. i

Page 4 Roving Reporter by jan rosker and seth okun QUESTION: Have you taken or any art you feel do you plan take Union? Do should to courses at that .. Union . tncrease \' spending in the arts department or do you feei that this money should be used to further enhance other departments? Karen Singer 1979 0 riginally, I was going to be a dual major v.ith art and I became so disillusioned with the department that I decided not to take any more courses. I think the school should definitely invest, because what they have now I wouldn't e\en call an \art department.\ JLil:->U.JU-R:.JI,U.JnnR~ JerrJ Savage 1980 I might he taking ~omc mw,ic cour~es. I do feel that it would be worthwhile to ime~t in the arts department. e~peciall! ror <l student in the ~ciences. because he or she may ha\c ~orne creative interests In the art~ without knowing it. Math and music go hand in hand and there are many other related field,. Actually, just for a fuller program to make Union more likeable and presentable to the puhlic, I think it v.ould be worthwhile. 1979 I have a very strong interest in the arts at Union. I think the · programs available now are good but they can definitely be improved. I have taken a course in music composition which I feel was inadequate. Other factions of the art department which I fee I deserve more interest and publicity are things like the 11· h concert series that they have with ~H:JEltli'FlCEH!:'IE.l:EIEitl!~I'EI!~:EIE'lt the Schenectady M useu m. j alZ :XnrlrX<\Irl<\lri<\Ir'I<\Xr'lrlr'Xr-X<\InrtrlrtnrtrX( bands and other o rc h est ra I Mark Seltzer 1979 organizations. I plan to take some philosophy \FFFFI'XrXr!rJrvlrlrXrtrlrX<\Xrir1rXuf%r courses as well as some sort of ceramic course. One of the difficulties I have encountered is that upperclassmen arc given first priority. So, you can go to Union for four years and never get into one of the courses. This is a case in point where the art department is in pretty poor shape. I feel it should be the highest priority on campus, and if they build any kind of new building, it should be an arts building over and beyond a new athletic facility. Ben Rubin 1978 I'm taking mu~ic 21 now and I'm abo in the glee club. I think it'~ ver) important that we have a good arh department. We have good prole~~or~ now hut we don't ha\e enough of them. Julia Smagorinsky 1'<)78 I haven't taken any courses and probably won't, but I feel it would be worthwhile for the school to imest in the arts department. Union College Campus Voice Bob Kaslovsky I. 977 I've taken three music comp ed courses and I'm now taking the comp ed called Sight Seeing and Ear I raining. In any type of liheral arts college, art plays an 1mportant role. I think it's important to invest in the art department but not if it's to the detriment of other departments. Prof. Ram K. Mittal Mech. Eng. I'm not biased hut I don't think I'm in a position to make a statement either way. I think Union is basically an under- graduate liberal arts college: however. I don't know how \the arts\ fits into the overall liberal arts program, and how many people are interested in them. As an engineer I'd like to see the costs and benefits as far as what the investment could accomplish in the arts or in another departm~nt. CoQkie Port 1977 The two courses I took were both art history with a visiting professor, amd I feel that if we want to have a liberal arts colle,ge we can't not oiler courses of that nature. I don't know much about studio art but l do know that the history of art is really important. Prof. l; nderwood Poli-Sci Without h;ning n:ad the arts report in detail. mv ans\ver would be yes. we should imest in the department. l'nion has traditionally had an emphasis on science and engmeeri ng more so than the colk·gt''> \\e like to compare oursche~ with. I don't think \\e'\e in\ested in the arts a' much as we '>hould ha\e. It seems to me that if you are trying to attract high LJUality students. and in the area of the arts and humanities, this would he one mO\e that would help us to regain our strength. ~ .. ~~~ '1-~ Authors' Note: ~~ i~ 1n :;electing questions }or t~ )\ the Roving Reporrer, 1re tr; · )~ ~~to choose topics which we {eel~\ ~ will stimulate and heigium ~~ t\ campus awareness. It is , ... t~ possible that after a randonz ~~ ~i. sampling of studems and ~~ ~~faculty, responses fail ta show \.., \~\the other side of the coin:· ~~ ;, This can happen, and we feel , ... l ~. that this., doesn't detra.ct iJ.l any ~~ \way from the investigative '~ ~aspect of the subject. ~ ... ~~.;\;-\'...-~~~~ r~~~~~~~ I, ~r;:.~:tte~:n~~-· ~ ~~.~-\ Hits from Union's Past ( ~ 9 7 5) ~~- . (sung to \My Favorite Things\) written by: andrea ·certilman, harris halpert · l l!i Chemistry, Eco an; 8 :p::;: ::; Psych, ~~~ Taking Comp Eds that I don't really like, With Prospers and Hartwigs and Mansfields and Lings, ~ These are afew of my favorite things! ~-i; I Most honored professor please give me an A, ~ I will do anything that you might say, \If Cookies and cupcakes and apples fll bring, m Just give me one of my favorite things! E r I . · After finals, w~en my grades come, ~~ and rm feeling sad............. .., Til simply remember my favorite things . and then I won'tfeel so bad. ~ ~ Pulling all nighters and trying to cram, ~ I . A thesis, a takehome, a final exam, ~ A job and diploma are what they will bring, these are a few of my favorite things! The choice isn't easy what job will! take? ~1 A doctor, or lawyer or judge will I make? ~ ~.';' Or work with my father and live lik'e a king, ~ ~~ then fl! do all ofmyfavorite things! ~ As alumni, we will look back, B ~ at both gaod and bad, ~ ~ And then we'll remember our favorite things, ~ 10\ nd so we won't.fPe/ so sad. \' ~i~~~\·~~~;i.~~';~~~ - ~ ... .. ~~ .. ;r~~~~(!-1!;~~ ~ ·------- --------------------------·------ ln owr m~·n ~·:.·:~y th~ Cnmp~s Vokc--··i~;;, l b£.en •,o/or'·d;;.g fed 2 ~n.:;re :2 Fare z.n:l ;;~~~~\'d I , J r \'l. r ,. ~ '~'\II .., 4 ~~·n:·;nnl~ln!~:l~~ ·~ .'~e ~v;'Ot.J.~c~ !t·~'-r-~ t~) !nart.\ ~t~~ ~:~:=·I t ... ,:~n-v-(.·J~-..:.~ • 6 ~~ • ' .. ~.\\\'' ... dolt'···~~... ·~~:~n, r~ .... ~ '{.~-t-~l· r.::·.-/,;.. \.1:.···\r~. :.:.: ... c 1 ··-·'{Jlf\ll~l~\\ d-,..., ·.~r:Jr~ !:>i~ ~~~rna q~,.~~lj 'I ·~ ~~~~~~~----------··~ :~~~~~-_:_~.:_:__ _______ ,__ ... ~- -· __ i October 20, 1976 In Need of Reualr (ontinued from Page I at 7:30, while the SUperVISOrs unofficially begiB theirs close to 8:00. As the above statements indicate, the employees appear to be virtually without discipline. Walter Stone has just begun to attack the discipline problem by ·instituting a new system, whereby the fi'rst warning is verbal: the secol'ld is wriHen: and the third is a day's swspension without pay. If the employee persists in this negative fashi.on, his job is then terminated. Accordingly. Heverly Hill stated that each employee should have a dossier. In this manner all things will be documeflted. and if a person shows a trend of umeli- ability, then that person's position should be terminated. Ms. Hill also stated that unless documentation comes into personnel it is not official. lherefure. Mr. Stone\ policy is not yet official. Proper counsding ha~ ju~t oegun at llnion with the in~tallation ol our Persunncl Department last year. \1 r. Stone lceb that there is a need to build up loyalty. v.hich may he an <:!<.planatlon a:.. to wh_). certatn people \\ho haven't lived up to their res1wmihilities ha\e nut he~.:n tired. I here is a lear of alienation hue. Another fear of alil.'nation skrm fmm the fact that must workers arc lrom the Schenectady area. and a rapport with the city is necessarv. I he qLH:stion rer{1ains, \Why .should ~n;one who continuallv shun~ his duties retain his or hc.r joh'!\ attitude toward students Perhaps there is an answer as to why the workers are sometimes negligent in their work. Through our interview with Lauric Colligan. who was a summer employee. we came to understand a so me what hostile attitude on the part of some of the workers towards Union students. Basically they feel that Union consists of \a lot of rich students who do not take care of their property.\ Alone these lines, Walter Stone has voiced a similar commentary. fhere is a great deal of vandalism on campus. (i.e. West College fire alarm) which he attributes to too much drinking on campus. Perhaps oecause of their attitude towards students, the workers feel that they can relax at times. lhercfore, when the workers feel that they don't have much to do they often attempt to \hide from Stone and Mills.\ Walt Stone's response to the lack of supervision is that he Is \primarily interested in results not interested in problems rn terms of excuses.\ Stone continued to say that he'll do his be>t to get a \winning team.\ :\Jot only docs this pertain to workers' attitudes towards their responsibilities, but the attitudes of the students towards Maintenance. We feel that hcfore an:~- of thi~ is accomplished. major rcorgani.1ational changes must he rcalired. Kingdom Continued from Pal!,e 3 fiercest of the gladiators were allowed to participate in this contest, and it was often to the death. There were a few amongst the peasants who desired more inOuence in the kingdom. They ran about the kingdom chastising the fellow peasants who were not also aspiring for more influence. They frequently attempted to convince any knight who would listen they were responsible enough to help decide who should he forced out of the kingdom. Frequently. they concentrated their efforts m the weekly journab. On the whole, the kingdom was striving to reach a potential the oracle said v.as there. It often stumbled and humhled on its way. Fortunately, those living within the kingdom loved it dearly and refused to gi~c up this quest. I ' l; r ~ ; \I J

.~ Page 4. Roving Reporter by jan rosker and seth okun QUESTION: Have you taken or any art you feel do you plan to take courses that~ at Union? Do Union should i.ncrease \ spending in the arts department or do you feei that this money sh 1 ould be used to further enhance other departments? Karen Singer 1979 Originally, I was going to be a dual major with art and I became so disillusioned with the department that I decided not to take any more courses. I think the school should definitely invest, because what they have now I wouldn't even call an \art department.\ ~..>IQ-lii;;-lii;I.Jjtl.J~I:;iJ.JX~..>Z(;j-.l!I;;I-.l!l;i..!~I.J~}:;iJ-lfQ..>X[;l..ii[I.;~jlt.J:,i]~~.J ~.; Jerry Savage 1980 I might be taking some music courses. I do feel that it would he worthwhile to invest in the arts department, especially for a student in the sciences, because he or she may have some creative interests in the arts without knowing it. Math and music go hand in hand and there are many other related fields. Actually, just for a fuller program to make Union more likeable and presentable to the public, I think it would be worthwhile. I have a very strong interest in the arts at Union. I think the • programs available now are good but they can definitely be improved. I have taken a course in music composition which I feel was inadequate. Other fact·ions of the art department which I feel · deserve more interest and publicity are -things like the concert series that they have with \t(:H~EFJrEJ!:Hrl!:Jl't'E:I'.n:ItlrE:H!~t'I the Schenectady Museum,, jazz ~cjrXr-Xrxt.Irlrlf'Xrlrlr-XrlrJtltlc-Xr-lrll'lrl<'tr-1( bands and other orth~stral Mark Seltzer 1979 organizations. I· plan to take some philosophy ~xrlrl<'lrl<'I<'I<'l<'l\'tC'l<'l<'X<'Xr-XI'Xr-XrXr-Ir'lr-Xr courses as well as some sort of ceramic course. One of the difficulties I have encountered is that upper classmen are given first priority. So, you can go to Union for four years and never get into one of the courses. This is a case in point where the art department is in pretty poor shape. I feel it should be the highest priority on campus. and if they build any .kind of new building, it should be an arts building over and beyond a new athletic facility. · Ben Rubin 1978 I'm taking music 21 now and I'm also in the glee club. I think it's very important that we have a good arts department. We haVe good professors now but we don't have enough of them. Julia Smagorinsky 1978 I haven't taken any courses and probably won't, but I feel it would be worthwhile for the school to invest in the arts department. ~ r ~ • .1;, • • 1: I • ~. ~ , '• ' :. Union College-Campus Voice Bob Kaslovsky 1977 I've taken three music cornp ed courses and I'm now taking the co.mp ed called Sight Seeing and Ear Training. In any type of Iibera·! arts col.lege, art plays an important Pole. I think it's important to invest in the art department but not if it's to the detriment of other departments. Mittal I'm not biased but I don't think I'm in a position to make a staternen:t either way; I think Union · is· basically an under-· graduate liberal arts college; however, I don't know how \the arts\ fits into the overall liberal arts program, and how tnany people are interested in them. As an engineer I'd like to see the costs and benefits as far as what the investment could accomplish in the arts or in another departm~nt. .·· Cookie Port 1977 The two courses. I took . were both art history with a visiting professor, and 1 feel that if we want to have a liberal arts college we ca.n't not offer courses of that . nature. l don't know much about studio art but I do know that the history of art is n.~any important. Prof. Underwo()d Poli-Sci Without having read the arts report in detail, my answer would be yes, we sheuld invest in the department. Union has traditionally had an emphasis on science and engineering more so than the colleges we like to compare ourselves with. I don't think we've invested in the arts as much as we shouJd have. It seems to me that if you are trying to attract high quality students, and in the a'rea of the arts and humanities, this would be one move that would help us to regain our strength. Authors' Note: 1n.selecting question-s for the Roving Reporter, we try to choose topics which we feel will stimulate and heighten campus awarenes-s. It is possible that after a random sampling of students and . faculty, responses fail to show '~the other side of the coin.\ This can happen, and we feel that th~s doesn't detract in any way from the investigative aspect of the subject. Broughj Back by Popular Demand .... Hits from Union's Past ( 1 975) . (sung to \My Favorite Things'') written by: andrea ·certilman, harris halpert · and debra Jilien Chemistry, Eco and Spanish and Psych, Taking Comp Eds that I don't really like. With Prospers and Hartwigs and Mansflelds and Lings, These are a few of my favorite things! Most honored professor please giVe tne an A, lwill do anything that you might say, Cookies and cupcakes and apples fll bring, Just give me one of my favorite things! After finals, w-,en my grades come, and Fmjeeling sad ............ . Fll simply remember my favorite things and then I won't feel so bad. Pulling all nighters and trying to cram, A thesis.\a takehome, aflnalexam, A job and diploma are what they will bring, these are afewofmy favorite things! c- The choice isn't easy what job will/ take? A doctor, or lawyer or judge will! make? Or work with myfather and live like a king, then ru do all of my favorite things! As alumni, we will look back, at both gaod and bad, And then we'll remember our favorite things, Af!~ so we won;t feel so Sf!d· ..• OctQber 20. 1976 . In N:eed of ·ReJJalr Continu-ed from l'-ag~:J.:.:';·, at 7:30, whi)e th~ supervisors unofficially begin theirs close to 8:00. As the above statements indicate, the employees appear to be virtually wi~hout discipline. Walter Stone has just begun to attack the discipline problem by ·instituting a new .system, whereby the first warning is \l_erbal; the second is written; and the third is a day's suspension without p&y. If the employee persists in this negative fashion; his job is then terminated. Accordingly, Bcvetl:y Hill stated that each employee should have a dossier. ln this manner aH things will be documented, and if a person shows a trend of u·nreli- ability, then that person's position should be terminated. Ms, Hill also s.tate\d that unless documentation comes into personnel it is not official. Therefore, Mr. Stone's policy is not yet official' Proper counseiing has just begun at Unio-n with the installation of our Personnel Department last year. Mr. Stone feels that there is a need to build up loyalty, which may be an explanation as to why certain people who haven't lived up to their responsibilities have not been fired. There is a 'fear of alienation here. Another fear of alienation stems from the fact that most workers are from the Schenectady area, and a rapport with the city is necessary. The question remains, \Why should anyone who continually shuns his duties retain his or her jol??\ attitude toward students Perhaps there is an answer as to why the workers are sometimes negligent in their work. Through our interview with Laurie Colligan. who was . a summer employee, we came to understand a somewhat hostile attitude on the part of some of the workers towards Union students. Basically they feel that ll nion consists of \a · lot of rich students who do not take care of their property.\ Alone these lines, Walter Stone has voiced a similar oommentary. There is a great deal of vandalism on campus, (i.e. West College fire alarm) which he attributes to too much drinking on campus.· Perhaps because of their attitude towards students, the workers feel that they can relax at times. Therefore, when the workers feel that' they don't have much to do they often attempt to \hide from Stone and Mills.\ Walt Stone~s response. to the lack of supervision is that he is \primarily interested in results -- not interested in problems in terms of exc;uses.\ Stone continued to say that he'll do his best to get a \winning team.\ Not only does this pertain to workers' altitudes towards their responsibilities, but the attitudes of the students towards Maintenance. We feel that before any of this is accomplished, major reor.ganizational changes must be realized. Kingdom Continued from Pa!!e 3 fiercest of the gladiators were allowed to participate in this contest, and it was often to the death. There were a few amongst the peasants who desired more influence in the kingdom. They ran about the kingdom chastising the fellow peasants who were not also aspiring for more influence. They frequently attempted to convince any knight who would listen they were responsible enough to help decide who should be forced out of the kingdom. Frequently, they concentrated their efforts In the weekly journals. On the whole, the kingdom was striving to reach a potential the oracle said was there. It often stumbled and humbled on its way. Fortunately, those living within the kingdom loved it dearly and refused to give up this quest. ( ( ( l e c t j I r \ s

~· c: ·. ~ .. ~- 0-~.· .... ~ c(.o. = .0 .. Volume 106, No. 5 Wednesday, October 27, 1976 S·COO-P: Task Force A tbleti~c :Report Previewed by GLENN WOLFSON and MARJORIE KOHN analysis of the organization and structure of the entire athletic department, 4) an examination of the ade4uacy of the _ college's indoor and outdoor athletic facilities, and 5) the cost implications of any recommendations that are suggested by the Task Force. Tom Kershner, acting Athletic Directpr, in days when Achilles Rink existed only on pape_r. Since its formation last spring, the Presidential Task Force on AthleticS· has. been exami-ning the overall athletic situa~ion at Union College. The task force has concentrated on 5 main ateas: I) Whether Union should remain in NESCAC (New England Small College Athletic Conference) and Whether Union should move into Division I hockey, 2) the !)latus of Women's A~hletics and the Intramural program, 3) an When questioned about the progress of fhe Task Force, Dr. Thomas Kers!met, Professor of Economics and Acting Director of Athletics; stated that althoUgh the study i.s, now being completed, . the cornmtttee has not yet made any firm recommendations. Kershner stated that the target date for completion of the final report, including recommendations, is \somewhere around Thanksgiving time.\ Confliet over the Air· Waves In the last. 48 hours a situation involving WRUC (Union's radio station) arose thitt would have been potentially explosive. had ft not been cleared up immediately. The fact that the problem was solved so quickly is very fortunate, however, the situation might have never come· to a head if not for a stroke of fate. Late Monday afternoon, a member of WR UC's staff was sitting ~n his room listening to WWWD,.a Schenectady-based AM station, when he heard it advertise that it- was the exclt1sive Union hockey radio station and would broadcast. all Union College varsity hockey gmnes. Thinking that WRUC was to broadcast, exclusively, all of the games he immediately phoned WRUC president Lloyd Saberski and asked why and when the· change in programming occurred. Coach Harkness and President Bopnet the next morning and that he would bring up the subject at that meeting. In the meantime Concordiensis belatedly found out about the story and quickly determined that the whole point in question was whether or not WWWD had in their P-Ossession a' written agreement. So, on Tuesday morning, one of Concordy's ··editors called the local' station and put the question to tiiem. . They replied that they did have some type of written agreement and, to the best of their knowledge \everything had been cleared with the powers that be\ at Union. WWWD Station Manager Jim Walsh stated that he didn't know where the agreement actually was, since that Was the responsibility of the station's Business Manager, but that he was so sure of the agreement, which he claimed had been made in eady summer, that WWWD had already gone out soliCiting advertisers and had ordered over $1000 worth of equiprnent necessary for game broadcasts. At J:OO Tuesday afternoon, A.D. Kershner got in touch with Concordy editor Mike Rotondi and told him flatly that the ·question had been completely - resolved earlier- in the day and that WRUC, not 'wwo, had exclusive rights to the broadcasting of Union College hockey. The quick .handling of the situation;· which could have had great long range ramifications, was pra~sed by all parties involved. Nonetheless, several important questions about the affai,r remain unanswered. At this rnoment, certain members of WWWD still claim that there is a written agreement in existence, but that they cannot produce it. , Since they . cannot produce the agreement it can only be assumed that it does not exist. qqestions That is not the question here anymore, though. Obviously they felt that the pact, written or v~rbal, was strong enough to cause them to go out on a limb in ordering equipment and setting Continued on Page 15 Concordiensis has learned, however, that a preliminary draft which analyzes the NESCAC and Division I questions has now been completed. As a defender of free speech and as a believer in coherent rational college-wide discussion of important campus issues, Concordiensis is. pleased and proud to present an abridged text of this preliminary draft. This draft deals solely with the NESCAC and Division I questions and does not represent the entire repert. Furthermore, due to the fact that the task force has not yet , moved into the decision making stage, the draft does not contain any recommendations. (The abridged text of the report appears on pages 12-14.) Saberski knew nothing of the · change and decided to phone Rink Director Ned Harkness and get the facts of the deat Sjnce ~he broadcasts of the games are W R U,C's most popular shows, Saberski's shock and outrage were understandable. However,. Coach Harkness assured Lloyd that no 1 written agreement with WWWD had been signed by him. Saberski then made several other phone calls to various members of the Administration and Athletic Department but could still not piece together the '¥hole story. Athletic Director Tom Kershner told Saberski that he had a previously scheduled meeting with Political Poll: A Campus Perspective by LISA BARON Following the abundance of national pollsters, Concordiensis joined the political pulse-takers to survey the Union college student body's attitudes toward the Presidential candidates and selected campaign issues, Twelve hundred surveys Were placed in random mail boxes and approximately 5QO were completed and returned. Jimmy Carter topped President Ford by 39 votes. (206-167). Percentagewise, Carter obtained 40% of the vote, while Ford got . 33%. This .is somewhat lower than · .the most recent nationwide Gallup poll, which showed Carter · leading Ford 47% - 41% One reason for this discrepancy can be attributed to the · significant number of undecided Union students; 88 students responded \undecided which represents 17% of the returned surveys. Here, we should point out, 17% of those politically active enough to complete the survey ate undecided, which can be taken to indicate that far more undecideds actually exist. · Union students gave Carter a 7% lead, which is very dose to the 6% lead shown in the national . polls. llut among younger voters only, the ~national polls show Carter running well ahead of · Ford. A late September Harris poll .gave Carter 58% to 37% advantage among those people under 30 years of age. Union students who particip<ited in this study departed from' this survey of younger voters. ','. r When asked;\ \What do you questions in different i:;;sue 'areas consider yourself politically?\ the were asked. The questions we~e number of Democrats exceeded . greatly simplified in order to the Republicans with 190-102. 'accommodate & survey form, and But greater than both of these they were mtended to show categories was. the . number of whether there is any relationship students who classified themselves between students' posit.ions on Independent. The 194 students specific issues and their preferenc~e Who responded as Independent. on candidates. The issue may or may .not be registered in a questions were taken to reflect party, but hesitate to affix a party ~ither .Ford's or Carter's position label to themselves. m bastc terms. In terms of electoral When asked, ''Do you believe participation, national estimates that welfare payments should be are that only about ,half of the standardized in all states. or do potential young voters currently you favor the current system in are registered and less than half which payment levels differ from actually voted in the 1972 state to state'r', response was as Presidential election. The follows: favor standardized Concordy survey showed 84% of payments,_ 43%; favor different those who responded are payment levels, 37% and not sure, registered to vote and 82% plan to 20%. Carter is for the vote. Both of these figures are nationalization of welfare sUbstantially higher than the payments which; in effect, would national estimates, which could standardize the payments. in all be attributed to the fact that states, meaning that people would Union students are not receive the · same amount characteristic of their cotltingent on need. For.d ts contemporaries across the nation. against hlltio.nalizing welfare Further, those that returned the pa¥.tnents, and supports the surveys are more politically present system where the involved than both the rest of the wealthier states get mo-re money, student oody and the rest of the and therefore its recipients receive same age population. In addition, greater benefits than in other the recent law passed which ·tat s, es. allows voter registration by mail, In the area of defense, a maY encourage Youth majority of students favor cutting participation. A number of those -the defense budget. Fifty-one students who said they a·re not pe·rcent responded that it would registered:. and do not plan to be acceptable to cut about $5 vote, did so because they have not billion, 25% that it is yet reached their IRth bil'!hday. unacceptable to cut it, and 23% In an attempt to get a general were unsure. Carter's position is feelillg about issue perception, 3 that we can 1:educe the budget by ' . ~.t .• • \ .•. • ) ~ . ,.\ :• l ~ L ' eliminating waste without jeopardizing security, whereas Ford would like to increase the defense budget, from its present level of approximately $104 billion. The economy, considered to be THE Campaign Issue, provided the subject for a question which Continued on Page 5 Poll Results If the election were held today, who would you vote for? Total Number Per-cent Ford Carter McCarthy Other Undecided 167 33 206 40 30 6 17 3 88 17 Are you registered to vote? Yes 435 84 No 71 14 Not Sure 9 2 What do you consider yourself politically? Democrat 190 Republican l 02 Independent I 94 Other I 2 38 20 39 2 Do you intend to vote in this presidential election? Yes 415 82 No 63 12 Not sure 27 5 Continued Page S

Oci.·27; l976 •' Trustee.& ·Hold·- Fall Meeting \ ... ~~· ,. ~ .. ,. :: by ANDY KOBLENZ Thi~ past weekend, the Union College Board of Trustees held their annual Fall meeting on campus. The meeting was marked by a unique combination of . concern and opt.irnism on the part of the Board. · Most of the work done by the tr~,tstee$ is done thro\!gh their committee&, which held meetings all d~y Friday. The first of these ·was the Student Affairs Committee. Most of the agenda was purely informative with no action required ort the part of the Board. Among items discusse<l were the incident at Delta Upsilon, reports on finanCial aid, admissions an!;! housing~ The Academic Affairs Committee met later on Friday a{ternoon. Again, most of the business was informative and for Other items. discussed ~t the meeting included reports .of work done on fire-detection systems in a number of dormitories, the end · walls of the field hous~;~ the. Arts Building, the computer center a<lditi~n. the Alumni (Jym, and some coUege .. owned property on 4 Douglas Road. These three committees were the only ones that, due to time constraints, l was .able to attend. There were aJso .meetings in the areas of Finance, Budget & Audit, College Resources and Nominations, and Awards and Honors. On Saturday ,morning the full. Suzanne Dowling, New Housimr Director, reads her new favorite newspaper. ..._ c:liscussion only, with no action needed to be taken. Agenda items included the report of the visiting committee on the Arts and the general plan fo:t the Institute of Administration and Manage·ment Board met in Old Chapel. President Sonner and Provost Enteman both gave teport;s praisi11g the progress that had already ,been made to solve college problems, while at the . same time Stressing the fact that there was still much more work to be done. The Provost also brought out the point that while we C!)ncern ourselves with day to day activities and problems, we must always -keep in mind the h (lAM). lt should be noted that ·C _ osen· . general· trustee response .to the · · • Arts report was favorable, hut that the specific dev.elopments in Housing Head importance of lo.ng•range planning. · Reports were ais() given by Vice-President Rasmussen on college resources and by Student by ALISON JAMESON Suzanne Dowling, a graduate of the University of New Hampshire (class of'75), has been named to the position of Director of Housing. The position, formerly held by Debbie Kilgus, was vacated when Ms. Kilgus was appointed Assistant Director of Alumni Affairs last month. Suzanne's new job took effect last Monday, Oct. 25-. Originally from Hingham, Mass., Suzanne attended the Whittemore School of Business and Economics, a division of Rio Club Do you have any interests in biology? The Union College •· Biology Club is now forming. The club•s purpose is to stimulate interest in the biological sciences through films, trips, and seminars which provide educational opportunities in biology beyond those available in the classroom. This club welcomes the interests and membership of the Union College Community. A good deal of interaction between the Bio Club and members of the Biology Department is planned, with informal exchange of interests and involvement. If you're interested in more information· or in joining this new venture in biology, sign our list in the Bio Department Office. THE COMPOSITE PICTURE OF THE ENTIRE UNION COLLEGE COMMUNITY TAKEN LAST SPRING I\S ON DISPLAY IN MRS. MA.RRA•s OFFICE STUDENT ACTIVITIES ,_ IN CARNEGIE HALL. ORDERS FOR REPRINTS AT $5 E:ACH ARE NOW BEING TAKEN. These reprints will be on heavy poster stock printed in brown ink, and will measure 9\ x. 28\. There must be a minimum order of 500 copies for these prints to be . Ql ad e. ORDERING DEADLINE IS FRIDAY~ NOV. 12, 1976. The $5 cost MUST BE PAID at the time of ordering. For those who have signed the prelimin•ry order sheet in Mrs. Marra's office. you must come in and pay. \ UNH at Durham. She majored in Organizational Behavior and earned a BS in Business Administration. While in college :she was also active in student ;advising and journalism. .Folic F·onowing her graduation, Suzanne came to work m Scht:nectady for General Electric. While here she became . very interested in both Union College and the city of Schenectady itself. As a virtual newcomer to the campus, Ms. Dowling realizes that she will have to lean heavily on students to gather information on the problems and priorities of students here. Therefore, she hopes that students will feel free to visit her office (firs~ floor of Old Gym Hall) and talk to her. the Arts should be handled through the coUege governance system. · A third committee meeting, tbis one of the Buildings and Grounds committee, was held at 4:00 p.m. The first item discussed was the condition of the roof of the Nott Memorial. There have cropped up a series of problems with tbe original plan submitted by Paul Schaeffer to fix the roof. The price had gone up considerably, and~the guarantee of quality was not nearlY as strong as was needed. On the recommendation of Walt St-one, Director of the Physical Plant, the committee unanimously decided to commit itself to yearly repairs on the roof until such time that money becomes available to do tlie job correctly: Trustee Chris Taylor. . In his report, Chris stressed student concern about athletics and admissions, as well as student support for expansion of the Arts. Following these reports, each committee chairpersc;m gave a brief account of what had transpired the day befo.re in each committee meeting, respectively. The meeting dosed with sorrie remarks by Chairman of the Board Sam Fo·rtel)~a ugh concerning the state of the;: college and his hopes for the. future~ OveralJ, the meeting was very productive in \that tfie trustees got a fairly accurate _picture of the campus and its conditions, a,nc;l. made some decisions that will improve Union in the future. .Film Cominittee i·n the ~Red by LISA WINER • Since its inception in Spring of 1974, the Film Committee had generated more than enough revenue to fall within its budget. This year, however, attendance has fallen to an all-time low. A dilemma for the committee is whether or not they should order first-run movies and take the risk of low turnouts or whether th€'\ should rent less expensive, and therefore, older films. The film committee is provided with approximately $7500 per year by the tax committee. This money, combined with the income provided by the moviegoers, is used to rent . films. First-run films, such as \Nashville\ and \The! Return of the Pink Panther,\ r~n in what may be considered a high price range of about $500. Other movies are rented at lower prices, beginning at $75 with an upper limit of about $400. Previously expensive films such as \Butch cassidy,\ \Slaughterhouse five,\ \Bananas \American· Grafitti,\ and \The Paper Chase\ were huge box office winners. In order to provide popular, top rate films, the film commi~tee must have a certain amount of money. Obviously, revenue can only he obtained with audiences of reasonable sizes. Mike Marks', chairman of the committee, attributes the low turnout to several factors. A central cause, he believes, is the fact that movies are now being shown on Wednesday nights rather than Tuesdays this term. The Tuesday planning to have major publ.icity film series had been highly 2 times a week through various successful in the past. The reason means. They are also planning to for the change was Garry Wills' rent more films of the students' lecture series. Although,the Film choice nex_t term through the use Committee \has reserved~ SS-016 of a film survey. - for the term, they were forced to Basically, the film committee is relinquish the hall. ·Marks felt hoping to increase attendance in that perhaps students tend to go the future. They are flo,ping t<> out less on Wednesday night than hold an ~·erotic filmfest'' next on Tuesday, for many students do term, and they plan on showing not have Wednesday classes. \Tunnel Vision\ as well. Weekend showings usually draw a However, if attendance remains .greater audience. low, profits . will remain low, and Another primary reason for better, more recent films will not low attendance may passibly be be shown here at Union College. attributed to lack of. publicity for Hopefully, Mike Marks will guide the movies. However, according the committee to a successful to Marks, this is soon to be return to prosperity. remedied. The committee is now Placement N·ews ;Ever .since 1961, Peace C<>tps voll.mteers bl:lve .been traveling to the furthermost parts of the world to ftdt1ll the goals set forth at its founding: lJ to belp developing nations meet their needs f{lr trained manpower, 2) to ~Promote .a .better understanding .of American people on the part of people being served, and 3) to promote a better understanding of other peoples among . Americans. Currently, ~he Peace Corps has volunteers fr(')m every state in the country,. serving in more than a thousand different projects per year, in countries in Africa, the near East, Asia~ the Pacjfic, South' America, Cen.ttal America, and the Caribbean. .,, Developing nations call upon the Peace Cq,tps. to help them combat broad problems of poverty,. illiteracy, hunger, and disease. They want to grow more. food to feed growing populations; they want ·to improve - · roads and transportation systems to distribute food and other products; they want to improve schools and public works; and they want to expand education• in agricultw:e, building tra<!es, math, science, medicine, and many other fields. In short, the Peace Corps needs people. People who are enthusiastic . and eager to be committed to helping other people in, need ... who can live modestly among them ... appreciate a foreign culture ... adopt to local customs.... and work well wi-th others. This requires people witq patience and a commitment which extends beyond tbe .assigned job, If · you are interested in the Peace Corps come by the Placement Office and ask for information ... we have a lot! :rhe PACE exam will be given in SSOI6 delete The PACE exam will be given in SSOl6 on November 13, 1976 from 8:15-1:30. Second Annual SOUTH COLLEGE HALLOWEEN PARTY Wear your favorite MShtfiie because there will be a prize for the best dresser. MUSIC BY W.R.U.C. SATURDAY, OCT: .30 FROM 9 PM TILL??? Special Halloween Raffle - 3 bottles of alcoholic bel'erage will · be raffled away at 10:30 p.m. on the second floor. Buy your tickets . today! 50¢ each ...... ~ for st. by 01. Since North intruder, Union question This ~ interviev Director meant t• securit· reg~lati~ MF. Wo• Unioh's one yea Schenecl where t Before n held th Detectiv• lhe f< briefly, procedu1 being en Sec uri currently one fire Union addition, 40 stude this offic weU as\ detective midnight In rega campus, different always t well as 1 police th Dorm measures as a resu Les K Robert the Edito York Ti: authority and A relations, (lnternati during th will serve of Politic The se1 Monday 4:20. J.t European l?cca us enrollme11 Athens according A. Klem Abroad F Winte.r Columbi enrolled schedule~ The a term is $ scholars~ in the p1; Ed re.yui ., he c plus dcpc 1\i ll\ emht should C( Prof..:,so· la~t ~ cgi,tcrcc Winter dcadlil1c reached ' had paid

g ·a. oi ·Page 2 CONCORDJENS!S, Wednesday, Oct. 27, 1.976 Trustees Hol·d Fall Meeting by ANDY KOBLENZ This past weekend, the Union College Board of Trustees held their anmml Fall meeting OR campus. The meeting was marked by a unique combination of concern and optimism on the part of the Board. Most of the work done by the trustees is done through their committees, which held meetings all day Friday. The first of these was the Student Affairs Committee. Most of the agenda was purely informative with no action required on the part of the BoaFd. Among items discassed were the incident at Delta Upsilon, reports on financial aid, admissions and housing. The Academic Affairs Other items discussed at the meeting included reports of work done on fire-detection systems i11 a number of dormitories, the end walls of the field house, the Arts Building, the computer center addition, the Alumni Gym, and some college-owned property on 4 Douglas Road. These three committees were the only ones that, due to time constraints, 1 was able to attend. There were also meetings in the a~eas of Finance, B11dget & Audit, College Resources and Nominations, and Awards and Honors. Suzanne Dowling, New Housinlf Director, Committee met later on Friday afternmm. Again, most of the business was informative and for discussion ot:~ly, with no action needed to be taken. Agenda items included the report of the visiting committee on the Arts and the geneml plan for the Institute of Administration and Management On Saturday morning the full Board met in Old ChapeL President Bonner and Provost Enteman both gave reports praising the progress that had already been made to solve college problems, while at the same time stressing the fact that there was still much more work to be done. The Provost also brought out the point that whHe we concern ourselves with day to day activities and problems, we must always keep in mind the importance of long-range planning. reads her new favorite newspaper. Housing Head (lAM). It should be noted that Chosen general trustee response to the Arts report was favorable, but that the specific developments in Reports were also given by Vice-President Rasmussen on college resources and by Student Trustee Chris Taylor. by ALISON JAMESON Suzanne Dowling, a graduate of the University of New Hampshire (class of '75), has been named to the position of Director of Housing. The position, formerly held by Debbie Kilgus, was vacated when Ms. Kilgus was appointed Assistant Director of Alumni Affairs last month. Suzanne's new job took effect last Monday, Oct. 25. Originally from Hingham, Mass., Suzanne attended the Whittemore School of Business and Economics, a division of Bio Club Do you have any interests in biology? The Union College Biology Club is now forming. The club's purpose is to stimulate interest in the biological sciences through films, trips, and seminars which provide educational opportunities in biology beyond those available in the classroom. This club welcomes the interests and membership of the Union College Community. A good deal of interaction between the Bio Club and members of the Biology Department is planned, with informal exchange of interests and involvement. If you're interested in more information or in joining this new venture in biology, sign our list in the Bio Department Office. THE (:OMPOSITE PICTURE Of' THE ENTIRE UNION COLLEGE COMMUNITY TAKEN LAST SPRING IS ON DISPLAY IN MRS. MARRA'S OFFICE STUDENT ACTIVITIES - IN CARNEGIE HALL ORDERS FOR REPRINTS AT $5 EACH ARE NOW BEING TAKEN. These reprints will be on heavy poster stock printed in brown ink, and will measure 9\ x 28\. There must be a minimum order of 500 copies for these prints to be made. ORDERING DEADLINE IS FRIDAY, NOV. 12, 1976. The $5 cost MUST BE PAID at the time of ordering. For those who have signed the preliminary order sheet in Mrs. Marra's office, you must come in and pay. UNH at Durham. She majored in Organizational Behavior and ;:arned a BS in Business Administration. While in college she was also active in student .advising and journalism. Folic Fo !lowing her graduation, Suzanne came to work m Scht:nectady for General Electric. While here she became very interested in both Union College and the city of Schenectady itself. As a virtual newcomer to the campus, Ms. Dowling realizes that she will have to lean heavily on students to gather information on the problems and priorities of students here. Therefore, she hopes that students will feel free to visit her office (first floor of Old Gym Hall) and talk to her. the Arts should be hand-led through the college governance system. A third committee meeting, this one of the Buildings and Grounds committee, was held at 4:00 p.m. The first item discussed was the condition of the roof of the N ott Memorial. There have cropped up a series of problems with the original plan submitted by Paul Schaeffer to fix the roof. The price had gone up considerably, and the guarantee of quality was not nearly as strong as was needed. On the recommendation of Walt Stone, Director of the Physical Plant, the committee unanimously decided to commit itself to yearly repairs on the roof until such time that money becomes available to do the job correctly. In his report, Chris stressed student concern about athletics and admissions, as well as student support for expansion of the Arts. Following these reports, each committee chairperson gave a brief account of what had transpired the day before in each committee meeting, respectively. The meeting closed with some remarks by Chairman of the Board Sam Fortenbaugh concerning the state of the college and his hopes for the future. Overall, the meeting was very productive in that the trustees got a fairly accurate picture of the campus and its conditions, and made some decisions that will improve Union in the future. Film Committee in the Red by LISA WINER Since its inception in Spring of 1974, the Film Committee had generated more than enough revenue to fail within its budget. This year, however, attendance has fallen to an all-time low. A dilemma for the committee is whether or not they should order first-run movies and take the risk of low turnouts or whether thf'\ should rent less expensive, and therefore, older films. The film committee is provided with approximately $7500 per year by the tax committee. This money, combined with the 1ncome provided by the moviegoers, is used to rent films. First-run films, such as \Nashville\ and \The Return of the Pink Panther,\ r~n in what may be considered a high price range of about $500. Other movies are rented at lower prices, beginning at $75 with an upper limit of about $400. Previously expensive films such as \Butch Cassidy,\ \Slaughterhouse Five,\ \Bananas \American Grafitti,\ and \The Paper Cnase\ were huge box office winners. In order to provide popular, top rate films, the film committee must have a certain amount of money. Obviously, revenue can only be obtained with audiences of reasonable sizes. Mike Marks, chairman of the committee, attributes the low turnout to several factors. A central cause, he believes, is the fact that movies are now being shown on Wednesday nights rather than Tuesdays this term. The Tuesday planning to have major publicity film series had been highly 2 times a week through various successful in the past. The reason means. They are also planning to for the change was Garry Wills' rent more films of the students' lecture series. Although .the Film choice next term through the use Committee has reserved SS-016 of a film survey. for the term, they were forced to Basically, the film committee is relinquish the hall. ·Marks felt hoping to increase attendance in that perhaps students tend to go the future. They are hoping to out less on Wednesday night than hold an \erotic filmfest\ next on Tuesday, for many students do term, and they plan on showing not have Wednesday classes. \Tunnel Vision\ as well. Weekend showings usually draw a However, if attendance remains .greater audience. low, profits will remain low, and Another primary reason for better, more recent films will not low attendance may possibly be be shown here at Union College. attributed to lack of publicity for Hopefully, Mike Marks will guide the movies. However, according the committee to a successful to Marks, this is soon to be return to prosperity. remedied. The committee is now Placement News Ever since 1961, Peace Corps volunteers have been traveling to the farthermost parts of the world to fulfill the goals set forth at its founding: 1) to help developing !lations meet their needs for trained maNpower, 2) to promote a better understaNding of A rnerican people on the part of people being served, and 3) to promote a better understanding of other peoples among Americans. Currently, the Peace Corps has volunteers from every state in the country, serving in more than a thousand different projects per year, in countries in Africa, the near East, Asia, the Pacific, South. America, Central America, and the Caribbean. Developing nations call upon the Peace Corps to help them combat broad problems of poverty, illiteracy, hunger, and disease. They want to grow more food to feed growing populations; they want to improve roads and transportation systems to distribute food and other products; they want to improve schools and public works; and they want to expand education in agriculture, building trades, math, science, medicine, and many other fields. In short, the Peace Corps needs people. People who are enthusiastic and eager to be committed to helping other people in need ... who can live modestly among them ... appreciate a foreign culture ... adopt to local customs... and work well with others. This requires people with patience and a commitment which extends beyonc:l the assigned iob. If · yeu are interested in the Peace Corps come by the Placement Office and ask for information ... we have a lot! The PACE exam will be given in SSO 16 delete The PACE exam will be given in SSOI6 on November 13, 1976 from 8:15-1:30. Second Annual SOUTH COLLEGE HALLOWEEN PARTY Wear your favorite costume because there will be a prize for the best dresser. MUSIC 8\' W.R.U.C. SATURDAY, OCT. 30 FROM 9 PM TILL??? Special Halloween Raffle - 3 bottles of alcoholic beverage will be raffled away at I 0:30 p.m. on the second floor. Buy your tickets today! SltG: each - ,1 for $1. w by OIAN Since th( North Col intruder, m Union corr questions a! This artie interview Director of: meant to ir security regulations ' Mr. Wood, Union's sec one year , Schenectad) where he ~ Before retiri held the Detectives i The folio briefly, a procedures being enfon Security currently I: one fire rr Union Cc addition, th• 40 students this office ir well as a detective \' midnight to In regard ca mr LJ~. thl UIIIerent sr always two well as two police the c Dorm measures ar as a result ( Les G. KJ Robert f the Editoria York Time authority and Am relations. (!nternation during the ' .,., iII serve a of Political I he semi \1 on Jay all 4:20. It .,., Furopean r• Be c .tLht' en ru llrn~.:nt ..\th~.:ns n aecu ruing I· t\ . K ll:r nm r\ h1uad Pn Winter Columhia, enrolled <! ~chedulcd. I he all- lenn 1' Sl. ,ch.,lar,hir Ill t!Jl' jllil~ I d r,·quill I hr Jl·, I' ln ... •krn' \., . '· •. :I~ f' ,' I -!J\uld l•'ll I ·' ,J 'i'' ' )- • , I c'lt'd I 1\ illlc I I c· dl .. dlllll' '\ I L'ill' hl'd llt had pa 1d.

CONCORD!ENSIS, -Wednesday. Oct. 27, 1976 Wood Speaks on·· Security by DIANE WOLF They are as follows: L Th~ Bronner House (:part of Since the recent incident at North), <:Ioor will b!! changeq from North College concerning an a latch-locking door to a self- intruder, many members of the locking door. Union community have raised 2. A .security log has been questions about campus security. es~ablished for North. This log This article, containing an requires the security guard on interview with Cliff Wood, duty to .enter any report of a fire Director of Security and SafetY, is hazard, inoperable alarm, broken meant to infonn students of all window, or potentially dangerous se.curity ·procedures and situation. This log has been regulations 'on· the Union campus. effective at Richmond. Mr. Wood, who has been head of 3. Student guards must be Unioh~s security system for over cqurteous and polite to the female one year , used to be With the residents of the dorms they are Schenectady Police Department guarding. Any ~;:omplaints may be where he served for 26 years. addressed to the Security office. Before retiring as a lieutenant, he 4. All ~tudent guards must held the post of Chief of make physical checks of all exit Detectives in the Youfh Division. doors at least twice during the The following, enumerated hours of duty. briefly, an! basic security 5. Any visitors entering North procedures and policies now . or Richmond will be checked. being enforced on the campus. The security guard at the door .Security Set-Up: There are has a Jist of all female residents currently 12 campus police and and their room numbers. In one fire marshall working for regard to male visitors entering Union College Security. In • the building, they will be stopped addition, there are approximately and checked for an !D. The 40 students who also work for security guard will .then call up to this office in variom; capacities, as the girl's room and find out if she well as\ a private Pinkerton wishes to receive her visitor. After detective who works from 12 12 midnight, if the girl wishes to midnight to. 8 a.m. at Richmond. see her ·visitor, she must come In regard to surveying the down and personally escort him campus, these police work three up to her room. different shifts, and there are Fire Regulations: By law, the always two watking officers, as school is required to have three well as two -in patrol cars, who mandatory fire drills a year in police the campus. every dorm and building on Dorm Security: Str_icter campus. Fire alarms··are found on measures are now being enforced every floor, as well as smoke as a result of the North incident. detectors and fire extinguishers. Les Goldstein at the Oak Room this past Saturday night. Any student found tampering with an alarm will be fined .by the Director of Housing at the request of the U.C. Security. Traffic Regulations: All students whQ own ears must register them, or they will be fined $50.00. Upon having registered their car, a student receives written instn,1ctions concerning traffic tegu'iations on the U.C. campus. To mention them briefly, any student who receives a ticket for parking in a restricted or non- parking area will be fined $2 for the first offense, $5 for the second, $10 for the third, $25 for the f ou.rth, and a loss of all parking privileges anywhere on campus for the remainder of the term for the fifth offense. Students may .ofcourse, appeal to the Student Traffic Court, and may also direct any complaints to this group or to U.C. Security. As far as Visitors' Parking is conce.avned, faculty•staff lots may be used during the day. These may bdocated by a campus map. Drugs: · According to Cliff Wood, \the Union College policy towards drugs is not to condone Director of Security Cliff Wood. it. Rather, we look down upon 1 s c H I d F • it.\ However, \we consider tlie ·. o· S . ··r st drug situation at Union to _be · · . ·. · · ·. minimal.\ As a result· of this, \we s · • d A b I will not enter any student's ro~m1 · t· a· teWI ·e · ssem· · y without cause.\ In other words, . · · · · . · . . . . . what the students do in their On Saturday, October 23, the rooms is their business, as long as Independent Student Coalition they aren't hampering anyone. If held. its first statewide assembly a serious crime or offense is being meeting in Albany. committed, security will ask to Student representatives were enter. If denied, they will secure a invited from all independent warrant from the Schenectady colleges and universities in New Police, since U.C. police have no York State. Present from Union aqest powers. However, there were Steve Epstein, Jim Lippman, have not been any incidents of Rich Reubenstone, and Mike this magnitude in recent years. Rotondi. The Union College police At this meeting the emphasize they are here t1> serve representatives discussed issues the needs and protect the interests which . face stud~nts in the of the students and residents of'' independent sectodas opposed to the college. Claims Cliff Wood, students in SUNY or CUNY ''We are striving f 0 r schools) and proposed possible professionalism in the campus solutions and goals to these police, and a better rapport with problems. The ISC's primary goal Union students.\ is to become a strong lobby group in the State Legislature. Since the organization represents over 250,000 students and theoretically, 500,000 voting parents, its potential power as a pressure group is very high. After establishing itself in the Legislature, the ISC has three basic functions to perform. They are, first, to guarantee the participation of the .independent sector students in policy decisions relating to higher education; second, to disseminate information from Albany to students at the various schools and to facilitate the flow of information among them; and, lastly, to encourage state government to develo_p a coherent long-range education· policy that takes into consideration the needs of students enrolled at independent institutions. Kleiman to Teaeh Here Although the coalition has only been in existence for a short time, it h~:~s already become engaged in several important activities. For example, just recently, the ISC submitted testimony at the Board of Regents' annual legislature conference which called for increases in Tuition Assistance and Bundy Aid. Both programs enable an institution to offer direct aid to students for the purpose of meeting tuition expenses. Robert Kleiman. member of the Editorial Board of Tbe New York Times and a promin~nt authority on American-Soviet and American-European relations, will offer PS 1.59 (International Politics: Seminar) during the Winter Term When he will serve as a Visiting Professor of Political Science. The seminar will be offered on Monday afternoons from I :30 to 4:20. l·t will deal with U.S.- European relations, 1945-1976. Students may sign up, for the seminar at the Political Science department office, SS 216. Students who have had an introductory course in international relations, or U.S. foreign policy, or European history, or elementary economics will be given ' preferential treatment. Combining lectures with extensive discussion, the seminar will cover the political, econom'ic, and strategic aspects of U.S.-European relations. Visit Athens l?ecause of low student enrollment the winter term in Athens may he cancelled, according to Professor Frederick A. Klemm, Director of Term Abroad Programs The two other Winter Terms in Bogota, Columbia, and Israel are fully enrolled and will continue as scheduled. \ The all-inclusive fee for the term is $1,650 plus airfare. All scholarships apply. Participation in the piogram fulfills two Comp Ed requirements . . , he deadline tor application plus deposit has heen ext~'nded to N n\·emher I. Interested studtmts should contact Prllfessor Reece or Prof~:,sor Kkn1m immediately. la~t ~rring 'ome 44 ~llH.lent' egi,tered to go to Athens in the Winter ter·m, hut when the tkaJiil1l' for the $100 uepusit \~a~ reached t)h Octoher 20, only 16 had paid. Because the co.st per student obnously increases wttn lower enrollment, Professor Klemm has stated that a mmtmum of 20 students is necessary to meet the financial logistics of the ~thens progr~1m. Memorial Union College President Thomas N. Bonner delivers tribute to the late Dr. Benjamin . P. Whitaker, economics professor and founder of the Institute of Administration and Mana.gcment, while Dr. Whitaker\ Widow, Helen, looks on. They stand in front of the South College dormitory, where !Jr. Whitaker and his family lived for most of the J5 years he was affiliated with the college. Placard carries the inscrlpllun whid1 will be on plaque installed on the dormitory · in _Dr. Whitaker's memory. J n addition to students majoring in the social sciences, Mr. Kleiman would also welcome those interested in a journalistic career. His unsigned editorials and Op~Ed columns published in The New York Times since 1963 won Kleiman the Alicia Patterson Foundation Fellowship A ward in 1972. Mr. Kleiman is the author of \Atlantic cnsts American Diplomacy Confronts a Resurgent Europe\ (W.W. Norton, New York), which has been republished in Britain, France, Japan and Canada, and a co-author of ·~NATO in Quest of Cohesion\ (Praeger, New York), \This is Germany\ · (William Sloane, N.Y.) and \World in Review\ (Rand McNally). He is a contributor to The New York Times Magazine and Book Review, the New Leader,· Realities, Survival and the Reader's Digest. · Anyone interested in learning more about the ISC should contact any of Union's four representatives.

l , I CONCORDIENS/S, Wednesday, Oct. 27, 1976 Page3 Wood Speaks on Security by OIANE WOLF Since the recent incide~t at North College concerning an intruder, many members of the Union commtmity have raised questions about campus security. This article, containing an interview with Oiff Wood, Director of Security and Safety, is meant to inform students of all security procedures and regulations on the Union campus. Mr. Wood, who has been head of Union's security system for over one year , used to be with the Schenectady Police Department where he served for 26 years. Before retiring as a lieutenant, he held the post of Chief of Detectives in the Youth Division. The following, enumerated briefly, are basic security procedures and policies now being enforced on the campus. Security Set- Up: There are currently 12 campus police and one fire marshall working for Cnion College Security. In addition, there arc approximately 40 students who also work for this office in variot!s capacities, as well as a private Pinkerton detective who works from 12 midnight to l{ a.m. at Richmond. In regard to sun.eying the campu>. these police v.urk three t!I l!eren t shil b, and th.:re are always two \\atking olficers. as well as twu in patrol caf';. who police the campus. Dorm Security: Stricter measures are now heing enforced as a result of the '..; orth incident. They are as folrlows: I. The Bronner House (part of North) door wiil be changed from a latch-locking door to a self- locking door. 2. A security log has been established for North. This log requires the security guard on duty to enter any report of a fire hazard, inoperable alarm, broken wiHdow, or potentially dangerous situation. This log has been effective at Richmond. 3. Student guards must be courteous and polite to the female resideHts of the donns they are guarding. Any complaints may be addressed to the Security office. 4. AI!J student guards must make physical checks of all exit doors at least twice during the hours of duty. 5. Any visitors entering North or Richmond will be checked. The security guard at the door has a list of all female residents and their room numbers. In regard to male visitors entering the building, they will be stopped and checked for an I D. The security guard will then call up to the girl's room and find out if she wishes to receive her vbitor. After 12 midnight. if the girl wishes to sec her visitor, she mu-.t come down and personall} escort him up to her room. Fire Regulations: B} lav.. the ~dwol is required to ha\e thn;e mandatory fire drill~ a )ear in ever_> dorm and huilding on campus. Fin; alarms are found on every lloor. as well a~ smoke detectors and fire extinguisher~. Les Goldstein at the Oak Room this past Saturday night. Any student found tampering with an alarm will be fined by the Director of Housing at the request of the U.C. Security. Traffic Regulations: All students who own cars must register them, or they will be fined $50.00. Upon having registered their car, a student receives written instructions concerning traffic regulations on the U.C. campus. To mention them briefly, any student who receives a ticket for parking in a restricted or non- parking area will be fined $2 for the fi.rst offense, $5 for the second, $!0 for the third, $25 for the fourth, and a loss of all parking privileges anywhere on campus for the remainder of the term for the fifth offense. Stadents may of course, appeal to the Student Traffic Court, and may also direct any complaints to this group or to U.C. Security. As far as Visitors' Parking is concearned, faculty-staff lots may be used during the day. These may be located by a campus map. Drugs: According to Cliff Wood, \the Union College policy \ towards drugs is not to condone it. Rather. we look down upon it.\ However, '\we consider the drug situation at Union to he minimal.\ As a result of this, \we V\ill not entt.:r an\ ~lutknt\ ruom V\lthout c.:<tuse.·· In tllher \\Orth. \\hat the students Ju in their rooms is their business, as long a~ they aren't hampering anyone. ll a serious crime or offeme is heing ullnmitted. 'ecunty will a-;k to enter. If denied. th,·) \\ill ~ecllP: a warrant from the Schenectady Police. since l' .( ·. ptdi..:e ha\ e n\ arrest pov.er<>. Ho\\t'H'L there have not been an~ incidents lll thi~ magnitude in recent years. The Union College police emphasi;e they are here to -,en e the need~ and protect the mten:st> of the students and resident> of the college. Claims Clift Wood. ''We are striving tor professionalism in the c.:ampus police, and a better rapport with Union students.\ ISC Holds First Statewide Assembly On Saturday, O~.:tl>bcr 23. the lndependt.:nt Studt.:nt Coal1tion ht:ld ib hr>t ~l.t\.: 1 \!Ut.: a>~~.:mbl; meeting iu Alhany. . Student rqne~entatl\e~ 11ere unitt:d lrom all tnJependent colleges and uni\ er-,it i\:s in \t:\\ York State Prt.:~ent l!lllll t·nitln \\ere Steh· l.p\lein. Jim l.ippman. Rich Rcubenstone. anJ \1 ike Rottmdi. At this meeting the rqHc~entati-.e~ disc.:us~ed ~:-.-,ues which lace ~tudenb m the independent ~\:ctor (as opposed to students in SUNY or lT'..;Y schools) and proposed pm,,ible solutions and goals to these problems. !he ISC's primary goal is to become a strong lobby group in the State I egl>lature. S1nce tht: organitatiun repre~cnb mer 250,000 ~tudenb and theorl'tlcall). 500.000 \ oting parents. lb putential po'v\er .1~ a pre~sure group is \ery high. 1\Jter e'tahJi,hing ihell in the lcgi,Jature. the ISC ha~ three ba,ic lunctiom Ill perf,nm I he~ are. fir>t. to guarantee the participation ut the independent ~cctnr 'tudent> 1n policy deci,iom relating to higher cdu.:ation; ~econd. to di>semlnate information from Alharn to >tudcnts at the variou~ sc\hools and to faeilitate the !low of information among them; and. lastly. to encourage state government to develop a coherent long-range education policy that takes into cumideration the needs of students enrolled at independent institutions. Kleiman to Teaeh Here Although the coalition has onlv been in existence for a short tim;, it h:1s already hecome engaged in several important act i\ itie~. For example, just recently. the lSC submitted testimony at the Board of Regents' annual legislature conference which called lor increases in r uition Assistance and Bundy Aid. Roth programs enable an institution to offer direct aid to student~ tor the Robert Kleiman. member of the Editorial Board of The New York Times and a prominmt authority on American-Soviet and American-Europ~an relations. will offer PS !59 (International Politics: Seminar) during the Winter l'erm when he v.ill serve as a Vi,iting Professor of Political Scieme. I he seminar will he offered on M on Jay afternoons from I :30 to 4:20. It will deal with U.S.- I'urnpean relations. 1945-1976. Students may sign up for the seminar at the Political Science department office. SS 216. Students who ha\e had an introductory course in international relations, or lJ .S. foreign policy. or European history. or elementary economics will be given pre!'erential treatment. Combining lectures V\ith extensi1e discu~sion. the ~cminar will cover the political, economic. and strategic aspects of lJ .S.-Furopean relations. Visit Athens lk c a u 'c o I I u 1\ \t !Hi t: n t ,·nrollment tht· 11 intt:r term in :\thcns may be cancelled, according to ProfessLlr l·rederick A. Klemm. DlJt:l.'tllr <lf term ,\hiuad Program~ I he two tlther Winter I e1ms 1n Boguta. Columbia, and Israel are fully enrolled and V\dl cnntame a~ >chcdukd. I he all-inclu~i\e lee lor the term 1~ Sl.650 plm airfare. All 'chtd<~r~hip' <~ppl~. l'alticip;itinn Ill t!Jt· rlll~J;illl lll]!il]o., (\\ll ( 'omp I d I ,·q lllll lilt' 11 h I ill· dt·<~dlll''-' l·~t o~ppllC.!tl<~ll pl11.., d·:P\'\ ha-. h,···11 v\l<'n•'vd !11 \,,·'.•\''''.'1 J (!lll'lc'fvll '!illl•_lll' · !J<•uld t<>lllld 1'1<~lt \''' Fc\.tc '·'' [l!IJ!~.._\-- !·~1\-·J:tJll lt:\IJll'd.,Jh.:'h [ ,l .t \ij; ll'f: ',,Ill,., l.~ '·I Ud1.. <1' ... J.-1\1\.·It . .'d fd ~,,, (tl \tllt'fb lit :i1t' 1\<lllll Icllll h111 11lwn Ilic' dl.tdlllll' !111 tilt' )]UIJ Jcptl\ll 11.1~ I<:ached tl!l (kt<thl'I ~0. ••nh Ill l1ad paid. lkcall'l' tht· cuo.,t. pel ... tudent ,,t)\ lllll~l:. lncrca,c> \\llll lo\lt:r enrollment. Pwlc~~<ll Klemm ha~ 'tated that a minunum of 20 ~tudents i~ nece~><ll) to meet the linam:ial lugi~tic~ of the ,\thens program. ~lemorial Cnion College President I homas ~. Bon Her delivers trihute tu the late I lr. Benjamin P. Whitaker. t'COtlllrnic' p1 ok.,~nr and lnunder of the ln,tltllte ul .\dm!nl-.tr<ttitlll and \1anagement, \\hlic Dr. Whllaker\. \\ido11. Helen. louk~ tlll. II,,·~ ... r.tnd m lront ot the '>•IIIth ( ·t~llq.!e dllrllllltlt\. \\\tel<. ill \\.!nt;d,Lr .lilt! ill\ l.illllil ill<'•l t•H 11:••'-1 ,,( fliL ~~ \(,lf' ilL' \\,1\ .II(:!J,ltt'<J \\ilh t hl· u >llq!t' I 'l.tt .• l 1 d , .!file'' I Ill· llhl\lljllllln 1\lllch \Iii] ht: 1111 plaque llhtalkd on the dormittll) in Dr. Whll.t~er'' memnry. In addition to students majoring in the social sciences, Mr. Kleiman would also welcome those interested in a journalistic career. His unsigned editorials and Op-Ed Ctllumns published in The New York Times since 1963 won Kleiman the Alicia Patter~on Foundation f'ellow~hip A ward in 1972. Mr. Kleiman is the author ol \Atlantic cns1~ American Diplomacy ('onfronts a Resurgent Europe\ ( W. W. ~orton. ~ew York). which has been repuhlished in Hritain. France. Japan and Canada. and a co-author of \~ATO in Quest of Cohesion\ ( Praeger. :\Jew York). \This is Germam\ (William Sloane, :'>l.Y.) and' \World in Review\ (Rand Mc;'-;ally). He is a contributor to rhe ~ew y nrk l1mes Mag:vine and Hook Review. the :-.lew Leader. Realities. Survival and the Reader's Digest. · purpose of meeting tuition expenses. Anyone interested 111 learning more about the ISC should eonta~.:t an) reprcsentati\ es. of t: nion ·~ tour

Pagt: 4 CONCORDIENSJS, Wednesday, Oct. 27, 1976 politics Ford· v. Carte·r Issues and Policies '- • c-r ··\ 1. '. • .. , ' \ From amongst all the rhetoric reduce ·.gevernment borrowing empli;>yer{employee payroll taxes. Egypt and feels that only direct and statistical ta:lk it often is and spending. The challenger's Governor Carter has come out communications between Israel difficult to establish exactly what emphasis has ·been on a more against prison· sentences for the_ and the Arab world will resolve a candidate is-saying. With this effic~i.:nt government, not occasional user of marijuana. His the· Mid-East situation. cloud of coQfusion and th~ larg~ .. nec_~s.s~rtly._· _a \\s~all~r . one .. pe.nal emphasis is on Finally, Governor Carter has number of .Und~cided voters i!i ..... PE~\'J,rQ&:Ort-~ns:t~orgamzatton of rehabilitation. Mr. Ford bel-ieves called for the de-politicization of. mind w.e. : .. at .. _ Concordiensi~f- rile . Gt:or_gia. structure, the t'hat the certainty of retribution the FBI a~:td Attorney General's · conside;· it O\lt obligation to help , ~ove t~ o:t... has pI an s · for would prevent crime. office. He attacks excessive clarify the positions.. of President sunphfyr,ng the federal The Governor advocates the government secrecy and has Ford and Governor Carter. The bureaucracy. extension of public finance laws called for better controf and following is a synopsis ~ndmakes .. Although. he is . ag~inst the to congressional campaigns,. and knowledge of lobbyists. Mr. Ford no claim to be a eornpr:ehensive manufactUring. of . the mfamous the Ptesident is against such an has established a Public Integrity or definitive study. Rather, it \Saturday Nigh_t Specia_ls,\ ~r. extension. Section (within the Criminal ,_ offers a concise look at some of Ford. hl;ls stated h1s firm Both candidates have Division of the Justice the more salient campaign iss 11 es. opposition to ext~nsiv~ gun committed themselves to the Department) to handle offenses of In the Scylla or Charybdis _control and the reg1stratwn of security of Israel. Mr. Ford has official and institutional choice of whether it is more hand guns. !he . Governor sought to prohibit American corruption. Similarly, he also important to conttol inflation or supports the regll~t~at10n _of guns businesses from complying with advocates the appointment of a employment, Mr. Ford focuses on and o~.ners and IS agamst the the Arab boycott. Mr. Carter is permanent special prosecutor on the former, while Mr. Carter .productH;m of cheap hand guns. against the supplying of arms to the federal level. emphasi;zes the latter._ This Mr,. \arter bas openly_ stated dichotomy is one of the basic the opmt?~ that between f1ve and ideological differences which seven b1Ihon dollars can be underlie the economic issues. shaved from the defense budget Mr. Fo'rd hopes to spur the with<;>ut compro~Ism~ . the economy and increase jobs secunty of the natwn. He 1s a through growth in the private vocal oppo?e~t of the B-1 and sector of the economy. He is an calls. for a hm1t on. ar~s exports. open advocate of tax incentives to The mcumbent ma~ntams that the bolster private growth. Mr. pr~s~nt bud~et IS the barest Carter, while acknowledging that mm1mum wh1ch can as~ure our the private sector is of primary defense and our defense mterests. ..:- ~ importance, believes that a broadly based system of public employment is acceptable if it is necessary to compensate for job shortages. Reflecting these positions, Ford opposed the Humphrey-Hawkins bill, while · Carter supported this piece of legislation. Governor Carter also has strenuously attacked the already existing tax loopholes and he wants to eradicate some of the tax inequities which benefit the rich. The President has come down firmly against wage and price controls. Similarly, he supports a policy that would free energy producers from price regulations. Governor Carter opposes the use of sweeping and permanent controls, but wants to establish standby controls which the President could use when applicable. The Governor also opposes the deregulation of crude oil, but thinks that natural gas should be deregulated for a period of five years. Mr. Carter has stated that he thinks the future of America depends on the cities. To insure urban growth and stability, he · feels that there must be a job for everyone who wants to work, and the welfare burden must be eased through federal funding. To facilitate the latter, he has called for \one fairly uniform, nationwide payment, varying according to cost of living differences between communities.\ Mr. Ford has been noticeably less sympathetic to city problems, particularly with regard to New York City. l-ie advocates more realistic and responsible budgets by cities across the nation and opposes federal subsidies in all but the most dire circumstances. President Ford hopes to initiate a more Spartan budget to help control inflation. He intends to Mr. Ford favors the development of both the B-1 and the Minuteman 1H missile, Both candidates see coal as the most important energy source today and in the near future and want to keep oil dependency on foreign nations down to a bare minimum. Mr. Carter, however, has called \·Project Independence\ a joke. The Governor supports the restriction of oil companies from owning all phases of production and distribution of oil, is against the ownership of competing energy companies by the same corporation, and calls for the rigid enforcement of anti- trust legislation. The President has called for the greater utilization of nuclear ene~;gy, whereas the Governor wants to keep nuclear dependence down to a minimum. Mr. Ford opposes federal legislation in the land use area, and he is against strip mining, having twice vetoed two such bills. Mr. Carter sees a need for better land use planning and supports strip mining. In the case of an irresolvable conflict between environmental protection and development, the Governor asserts that he must support the environment. Neither candidate believes in forced busing. Both of them support full financial disclosures by people politically invovled. Similarly, both men are personally against abortions. Mr. Carter, however, would not support a constitutional amendment overruling the Supreme Court decision, while President Ford said that he would. work in . favor· of such an amendment. the President hopes to improve health care by working through private health insurance pr,ograms. Mr. Carter proposes a national health insurance .plan that would be funded from general tax revenues and shared Jimmy Carter as.''Piayboy\ by MICHAEL AFFINITO The cover of November's Playboy proclajms: \Now the real Jimmy Carter: on politics, r$!ligion, the press, and sex; in an incredible Playboy interview.\ This was the moment everyone in America had been waiting for, or at least every male in America between the ages of twenty-one and thirty-five. · Speculation about the impact of the controversial Playboy interview had been the source of strong tremors on the political front. In an attempt to ease some of the tension being built up,G. Barry Golson, who edited the interview for Playboy, prefaced the appearance of the November issue with an opinion piece in the New York Times. Uolson .pomted out that aU of the controversy surrounding the interview stemmed from a \ten minute monologue at the doorway of his (Carter's) house in Plains, Ga.\ Golson's argument was that the press was concentrating on one small·part of the interview during which Carter expounded on many things, ranging from sex to politics and religion. Golson said that by focusing attention on that one small part of the interview, the press was playing down the important things which were discussed (in the interview). Golson had a point. It is a tendency of the media to pick up on that which is sensational and will excite and attract the interest of their audiem::e. The point where Golson's argument begins to fall apart, or rather self- destruct, is on page 63 of November's Phiyboy. The unfortunate fact of the matter is that there is really nothing in the interview worth picking up on, even the final statement by Carter. A large part of the interview focuses on absurd aspects of Carter's personal life and calls upon him to make retrospective judgments about the actions ot past presidential administrations. At the points where the interview does get · down to the issues, the questions are stale and uninteresting. As for the answers to these questions, Carter may a& well take Out a patent on them. The staleness of some of the questions may be attributed to the fact that the interview wlfS conducted in three parts over a period of three months from May to July; The poor qualiJy of some of the other questions is probably directly related to Playboy's choice of interviewer, Robert Scheer. Scheer is best described as an \Off-beat journalist.\ the reason Playboy chose Scheer is that it was felt he would present a stimulating challenge to Carter in which he wouldn't be afraid to ask \irreverent questions.\ After the fact, it seems that Scheer did not disappoint Playb«:~y and was not afraid to ask the irrelevant questions. At times he is absolutely ridiculous. Scheer's first questions are innocuous enough. One would think he is just warming Carter and himself up. However, things get worse. · The first sjgns of degeneration come when Scheer asks: \Isn't it (your) views about What's 'sinful' and what's 'immoral' that contribute to the feeling that you might get a call from God, or get inspi:r~d and push the wrong button? More realistically, wouldn't we expect a puritanical tone to be set in the White House if you were elected?\ Apparently Schee.r has b~n dipping too deeply into American literature. He likens Carter to the Reverend· Dlmmsdale. The next thing you know Carter will be ripping off his shirt and reveal the mushroom cloud emblazoned on· his chest and then blow up the world. But, mote realistically, as Mr. Scheer says, he doesn't expect Mr. Carter to do much more than come on the T.V. once a week to chastise and purge all the White House employees to set an example for us. .. While Scheer's· line of questioning adds no'thing to the interview, Carter certainly rivals Scheer for dullness and unimaginative ·thinking. He responds to the same old questions with the same hackneyed phrase~, hardly distinguishable from the first time you heard them. His word selection nevet varies. Carter is also groping to establish contact with his (the Playboy) audience. At one point in tbt: ~interview Carter identifies himself with youth - The· AUman Brothers, Dicky Betts and Bob . Dylan. In trying to establish this connection - with his audience, Carter cites his two sons (ages 23 and 49) as examples of his being able ~o understand the problems of the ·younger generation. The interview closes with Carter's \bold\ statement, the one that the press picked up on. It comes out as nothing more than Carter's token inclusion of mild profanity and abuse for the appeasement ofthose readers who didn't find the interview itself interesting or exciting. frankly, the statement itself proves ratber Continued on Page lS Children and Politics ProfessQr F. Hartwig, an 33, which sound kind of like associate professor of Political football scores.\ Science at Union College, If the presidential election is the specializes in the field of political child's introduction to the . socialization, focusing on the Workings of government, Hartwig effect of the electoral process on notes, it is feasible for the child to children. With a presidential receive a somewhat distorted election so near at hand, Prof. view. Television, radio, Hartwig reflects on children and newspapers, adult conversation, the campaign. education and other influential When a presidential election is forces may, \ focus a approaching, the media disproportional share of attention transforms a child's world into on the President. This can lead to one of political aWareness. The a belief by many children ·Of large amount of coverage given to elementary · school that the this 10 month-long practice of P~esident is the political highly concentrated political system ... \ campaigning can result in an Whatever the child's intense form of \politi.cization orientation during a presidential according to social sCientists. . election, it is as enduring as the Prof. Hartwig observes that, intensity with which .it is \An election is something which reinforce·d and origina.Hy children can understand. For one cultivated, Hartwig theorizes. thing, they probably have Unfort!fnately, Pref. Har,tw.ig elections in school. Majority rule found it yirtually impossible to and voting· are not strange to confirm this due· to the difficulty them. Somewhere along the line of locating surveyed kids after I 0 - from ·parents probably ~ they years to see if they've continued pick up who one or . two of the their initial partisanship. good and bad guys are. 1f they The vulnerable quality of hear their parents speak of Mo· Y.outh, coupled with the harsh Udall in favorable terms, they get reality of our political world, to root for Mo Udall the same seems to merit some reflection on way they might toot. for the New what we could, even York Yankees or Philadelphia inadvertently, be doing to Philties. There are two leagues, children. After much extensive after all, - Republican and study on this as,pect of political Democratic- and during the socialization, Prof. Hartwig primaries you get winners and coneludes that, \Parents should losers about once a week. The be very sensitive to a child's way percen'tages give wins' like 36 to of seeing the world.\ I Tiled be that people i t~ only p.al~s,,. candida1 embal\r3 America hllmder. foreign~1 :But t1 welt Ele and Jerr upright, lustings .: Were· they sho the cane suspect 1 issues, n 011 Cart, Presiden unassum speaks sl could fir. challengt same is F.ord b mcrease no incre Those v Presiden1 on issues as _ his clumsille: their op issues die speech n:: not WOI second perceptio ''think or. It is what thf Jimmy ( Carter b has an mind anc conventk problems the debat encourag< such 'lJlE Carter fe: debate tc an inter interview in consid who are because 4 about hi su~piciow appeared to claim H~ by n M. ·Stan for the I' chairman Conservati' behalf of S Thursday 1 noted auth< Dange.-s < conservativ his book a he felt to b1 - the artaly~ govetnmen1 La beli1 goverrtmen1 Unio The Prof; will The

CONCORDIE~S/S, Wednesday, O(·l27, 1976 ' ' The Debates: Overview Tqe. debates are ~ver .. Could it . be that the reaction of most people is one of rt:lief? Or am I th~ only orie who sat with sweaty paliris,, .. ,dreading, that . pne candidate ·'ol.' Ute oti)et: , wotild · embatras~ · .himself · and all of Amei'ica . with · some horrible bll1rtder. My God, were there any foreign~rs w~tcbing? But then all is well that ends well. Eleven (fclock Friday came, and Jerry F.ord'spodium was still upright, Lillian · Carter~s sec).'et lustings still s~cret. Ge~rgia Uovernorsrup. and showed hirnself unwilling or unable to stick to tbe point of a question. not OQ senous narm to, either candidate. My guess is that if tlte debates . helped anyone they · help¢d Carter, for if not~ing el$e they provided him with a forum to show that he was indeed human. By the third debate h.e had become adept at appearing humble and acknow!ed'l!ifl~ apology. And, li my perception Page5 L • • po ltiCS Were the debates a su~cess, did they show us anything new about the candidates or the issues? I suspect the answer is no on the issues, no on Ford,. and maybe oil Carter. 'Ntose who. like the President because he is sincere, unassuming, hard~working and speaks straight from the shoulder could find little in the debates to challenge their perception. The same is true for those who like F.ord becaQse he wants an increase in defense spending and no increase in other spending. Those who disapprove of the President because of his stands on issues and what they perceive as _ his physical and mental clumsiness saw nothing to change their opinions. His stands on issues did not really change. His speech mechanism sometimes did net work properly, and the second deliate reinforced the perception that he really cannot .. think on his. feet.\ Th(Jse who favor Carter because they feel he will be an activist President who will apply standard 'fliberal\ pre~criptions for economic as well as other problems shoUld be encouraged in their beliefs by the debates. While being careful not to paint himself as. a George McGovern~ type liberal and thus offend the mare tradition~ wing of the Democratic Party, Governor Carter managed to· draw a clear line between himself and the President. Thus, Ford was clearly on the · defensive with ,regard to economic policy in the · last debate. On this issue, the problem for the President !!eems to be one that Murray Edelman has pointed out. An incumbent's verbal reassurances on economic problems do not have the same weight as reassurance.s concerning most other problems. The reason is that voters directly \feel. economic problems in their everyday lives. This \reality check\ is hard, on incumbent' Presidents, for they are generally blamed for the problems people f!lel regardless of whether any blame is deserved. of the electorate's moo<l is correct, then Carter's closing statement iri the third debate represented the high-point of his performan.ce. As one might expect, that statement included references to issues and had an inspirational reference to eur potential greatness. But more important, it acknowledged that ••1 don't know all the answers ... there are no magic answers.\ Those .are soothing words to a public grown skeptical of the promise of easy answers, a public that remembers all that Texas talk abouf the . Campus Poll (con't from p. 1 J It is very difficult to guess the extent and nature of the debates' Great Society. . refle~ts partisan. ideology. Carter proposes to fight economic problems through ·government creation of jobs. Contrary to Carter's emphasis on the public seGtor, Ford advocates the stimulation of private industry and the control of inflation. Without identifying candidates with the positions, students were asked which approach }hey favor. A majority, 53% favored the stimulation of private industry and only 16% favored government action. But of those who voted f-or Carter, 47% were for government action and 36% were for the stimulation of private Itself was objectively written and it was randomly administered, it cannot be considered as valid as nationwide polls. We were subject to certain conditions, primarily that our respondents were inten~sted enough to participate - leaving behind a mass of apathy. It is not easy to determine what the debates tell us about Jimmy Carter. Those who like Carter because they believe he has an inquiring and reflective mind and an ability to transcend conventional ways of looking at problems will at best reason that the debate format is not one that' encourages a candidate to display such qJJalities. h is ironic that Carter felt he had to use the last debate to apologize for granting an interview to Playboy, an interview in which he did engage in considerable reflection. Those who are suspicious of Carter because of some vague feelings about his style may still be su~picious. For at times h~ appeared too certam ot tumseu, to claim too much for · his _ impact on the election, Partly because the .polls .have not shown consistent results, it is even difficult to say who is perceived as the winner of the debates themselves. Nevertheless, it does seem clear that debates did It should he obvious that there are many reasons to question the value of the debates in helping voters to make better choices. Personally I would prefer lengthy televised interviews with each candidate, interviews designed to force candidates to pitt -forth something other than carefully rehearsed positions and inan\e \debaters points.\ . ·.. And the interviewers? Perhaps Playboy interviewer Robert Scheer or maybe even Italian journalist Oriami :;~f'aladcii. _ _, Y Oll can bet thai no one would switch of~ thtt set. Y9u can also bet that candidates would prefer the indu..stry. · .t .. : •• ,_. It appears that the people who voted for Ford did so in agreement with his position on the -' economic issue. The Carter supporters were in accordance with his economic policy to a lesser degree and apparently their support for him is not derived .from,his approach to the economy. This survey generally indicated that while students are so~called 'liberal' in areas of defense and welfare spending, when it comes to economic issues they are more conservative. Of course, we must be wary of extending these findings into widespread conclusions about the student body. While the survey Head ·conservative -~peaks unlethered, monolithic power Medicare/ Medicaid program <lS structure,\ Evans spoke of the an example of the disaster of deterioration of standards present government intervention in the in the Constitution. Such economy. Evans ended his lecture deterioration included the erosion by calling for a rediscovery of the of states' rights and the original principles of the society. centralization of power in the In a succeeding question and federal government, particularly answer period, Evans was asked if in the executive branch. Evans he was congenial to Carter's blamed liberal policies for this proposals to reduce the erosion of standards and bureaucracy. Evans responded identified the Roosevelt of the that Carter's intent is to 'make the 1930's as the advent of modern bureaucracy more effident, ~ot liberalism. In making his claims, to reduce it. Evans did not view by TERESA MEADE M. · Stantion Evans, columnist for the National Review and chairman of the American Conservative Union spoke in behalf of Senator James Buckley Thursday night in SS 016. The noted author of Clear and Present Dangers closely ·followed the conservative ideology set forth in his book and addressed the issue he felt to be of critical. importance - the analysis of the proper role of government. Labeling the fed era 1 Evans noted the increasing inefficiency as the difficulty; an \unchecked percentage of GN.P absorbed by • instead, he saw the total scope of government government and referred to the g~ver,nment as the problem. Evans also ·addressed the paradox of conservatism in the nation, the fact that although 66 p~r cent of the population label themselves conservative, liberal Democrats continue to win elections. Evans explained the paradox as the historic resistance to the Republican party and stated that the G. 0. P. is not perceived as a vehicle for conserVative aspirations. Evans did recognize conservatism as a major factor in this and succeeding elections a'nd prophesied a realignment of conservatives after the election. ~----~------------------------~----~ , SATURDAY,OCTOBER30 Union Football at Hamilton. WRUC will begin Broadcast at . I :25 SUNDAY, OCTOBER 3,1 The Sunday SQecial Interview. This week~s guest will be P-rof. Underwood of the Political Science Department. He will be interviewed by Lee Wasserman and Mark SeltzlZr. The Topic: The Presidential Election: Analysis and Vote Prl.idictions '\'-- 0 UNION COLLt6E PUB RE:SrAURANT ~~ c '>C.HENEL1';0Y,NY i.lJ08 1-i.OL LOW Phone. (518) 37,)-6050 37(} 6051 Dutch Hollow Pub THERE WILL BE A Halloween .Party at the Pub OCT. 29 - 9pm~? Rum & cider, donuts, candy, prizes for best and most original costume and prizes for THE BEST IMITATION OF DEAN SMITH and PROVOST ENTEMAN. Come celebrat~! Sponsored by the Pub Committee. poll results , Continued from Page 1 Do you belieVe that welfare payments should be standardized in all states or do you favor the current system in which payment levels differ from state to state? No. No.(%) Favor standar~ di:ted payments217 Favor different payment levels Not sure 186 98 43 37 20 One approach to fighting national economic problems emphasizes the creation of jobs through government action; another approach emphasizes stimulation of private industry and control of inflation. If a choice has to be made, which general approach woiuld you personally favor? Government action through crea~ tion of jobs 16 7 35 Stimulation of private indus- try and 254 53 control of inflation Not sure 58 12 In the area of national defense, some say we can .reduce the budget by eliminating waste without jeopardizing security. Others say that a reduction of several billion dollars in the defense budget would threaten national security. How do you feel about this? It is acceptable to cut about $5 billion from the defense budget 253 51 it is unacceptable to cut about $5 billion from the defense budget · 125 25 Not Sure 114 23 Most Recent Gallup Poll Ford 41% Carter 47% McCarthy 2% Undecided 10%

CONCiJRDtENS/S, Wei/neS'dbj, t7ct: 27;..1!176 politic& History Professor Stephen Berk lecturing on Ford~ Carter and the Mid East. a Political Fornnt Hosts Own Debate Friday night, the Political Yugoslavian statement was also Forum attracted over 50 people discussed, and related to the to Strauss Lounge where they campaign's foreign policy debate. watched the debate, indulged in Hartwig sees a certain naivitY. in free beer· and snacks, and shared Carter's foreign .relations, which post-debate campaign was teflectetl in Carter's assessments. willingness to set . forth his Political Science professors behavior in a hypothetical Fred Hartwig and Steve Johnson situation. \It's like playing chess lead the discussion and offered and saying you won't attack. your analysis of the campaign. Hartwig opponent's knights,\ he said began by asking for a show of wryly arid cautioned that \you hands, reflecting support for each · shouldn't pin yourself down.\ of the candidates. While it was Professor Johnson, on the overwhelmingly pro-Carter, this other hand, does not feel that sentiment came as no surprise to Carter is naive in foreign policy, Hartwig, as he proposed that but has \focused on politically selective perception was quite astute issues.\ The Yugoslavian evident during the debate. \You statement Was not a mistake and hear what you want to hear,\ he Johnson observed that \it's commented, and he cited the difficult to keep the opponent preponderance of anti-Ford guessing\ in the contemporary snickers and laughs throughout arena ·Of foreign policy issues. the debate. Johnson noted that foreign policy Union, he feels, is by no means is not a major issue this year, and an accurate reflection. of the said' that foreign policy issues electorate. In fact, he related his \don't lend themselves to debate 111ethod of gauging the electorate in a public forum such as this.\ The Can··d.idates On Friday, October 22, the Union College Jewish Studen1 Organizatien - Hillel, hosted tht.:! first of its Sabbath dinner programs; the response to it was overwhelrningly successful _The program which followec:t the dinner was as stimulating as the meal was delicious. Stephen Berk, Associate Prof'¢ss0r of History at Union, spoke about .fhe upcoming presidential election. He focused on the eff(:ct of either a Carter or Ford administration for Israel' and the American Jews. Before beginning, Berk prefaced his: remarks· by· stating lhat he was. not expert in the field of political science, and in fact would be presenting .a partisan view of fhe two potential candidates. Because Jews place such a strong emphasis on ti1e Middle East Issue, Berk directed ' the thrust of his comments in this area. Berk noted President Ford .. s basically pro-Israel stance, but more importantly cited some real drawbacks in Ford's Middle East programs. In particular, the large sums of money which have recently been channeled to the Antb countries, expecially Saudi Arabia, are seen by 8erk as a real obstacle to peace· in the Middle East. a~nd· lsrae:l On the issue of the Arab With things as. bleak as they boycott, Ford's record has been are, President Ford does not seem pitiful. The President has lo. be the man. who can eradicate consistently opposed allti-boycott · the evils of ·inflation and legislation· such as the Ribicoff unemployment. On the other amendment. Berk has little. doubt· hand, althQugh BerR believes that that a Canter admini$tration 'Carter will pe~fortn better than wou·td take a much tougher stance Fo.rd on the .~foremert!iok1~d 1owards the Arabs irt a boycott issues, there is certainly reason for situation. one to be wary, . especially tf:Je One of the most distressing Jew,. of a Carter victory, areas · ef the Ford administration Carter's foreign policy a<lvisers has been in the area of detente an;~ one rna;jor reason, particul'arly and Soviet Jewry. In short, Ford Cyrus Vance and George Ball has given away too much and whose views on the Mid East received too little. Berk feels that leave much to be desired. we h~ve giv~nawaytec~n.ologylo Zb·ign.iew ~rzezinski, the R1,1ssJa Wlth.out stnvmg .to brilliant Columbia Professor who promote human ri~hts. His will probably becoJne the next ~:refusal . to meet. . Alexa,nder !5t:'cretary of Stat<::) is ortl.y a Solzbemtsyn for pohttcal rea&ons, newcomer to the field of Mid East was especially depressing to the Policy. It must also be Soviet Jews and other oppressed remembered that when · the groups in Russia. · ·· Vietnam war. raged the early 60's, No matter if~one is JeW or Br~teztnski was a staunch Gentile, domestic i;ssues will suppo~ter. On!~ later did the certainly have sonte impact on. ProfessoF reverse his hawkish one.'s decision . in choosing the stance. . Anot.J:1er · reason for f\ext Pr.esident. How.ev~r, the Jew . reservation toward Carter are his has to be particularly careful d~ep rdiglous beliefs. Berk concerning the :econo~ic climate- .-¢xplain~?d the possibi<lity that a of wher~ he hves. Htstory has Qlrtei Presidency could create a ·sh.own that tbe political spinoffs wave of religious ferver across the from economic doWnturns have United States .. If people begin to been disastrous for Jews, with e.quate this~ :.>Gbdstian religious anti-Semitism always rearing its fervor with Nhtionhood · and ugly head at such t·imes. Citizenship, this· could, (if history ts . correct,) · lead to a very precarious situation for the American Jewish Community. Whatever one's religion and whoever becomes President, the message, as Professor Berk stated, ~s clear, \The Me~siJIIliC Age will not ·,be ,ysP,e{tt4: bm~ !i)n! Nov. 2, ~76.'' .:~ ~.\:-~ SPECIAL NOT!Cf: .FROM THE OFFI€E OF STU DENT. MD New York State students can still file for the Tuition Assistance Program if you have not already , done so. Applications are available in the bffice of StUdent Aid. Incidentally, there has been an inordinate delay in processing awards fctt this year due to a number of factors. You are · · advised to r;all t·he New York Higher Education Services Corporation if yeti have not heard of your award by now. The number is:. (518) 474-5643. Professor Reynolds, Union'-s China expert in a tender moment in any given year: He listens to the conversation in the Social Scier11;:es Faculty Lounge and takes the opposite. Reynold·s Analyzes Conflic~:. Hartwig, a Carter supporter, sees the possibility of a plurality with the other candidate winning. He pointed to the recent polls which indicated that as many as 17 per cent of the electerate is undecided. In Hartwig's immediate assessment, Ford struck him as much.stronger than Carter in this debate. \Carter ·doesn't think Well on his feet, nor for that matter does Ford;\ further, they are both inferior in this respect to Kennedy or Nixon, the participants in our last set of Presidential debates. Professor Johnson, also a Carter supporter, departed from Hartwig's overall assessment in his contention that the Democratic nominee .. clearly won\ this debate. Johnson directed his comments toward the image Carter conveyed and the c.onfidence he inspired, rather than the issues of the campaign. Both professors agreed that Carter could have been much stronger in his responses. In particular, they thought Carter could have made a more effective • case for gun control, after Ford focused on crime control. Carter's Struggle in China Discussed The struggle for power in China following the death of Mao Tse Tung is less. over personalities than over \goals and values., says Bruce L. Reynolds, assistant professor of economics !_lt Union College and an authority on China. In simplified forrn, says Dr. Reynolds, the conflict is between politics and economics in that country. \One Chinese political grouping, often labeled the 'moderates,' puts economic goals first,\ said Reynolds. This group, he said, was led l>cy the late Premier Chou En-Lai. Reynolds said Chou favored the development of a ''relatively : comprehensive modernization\· that would put her economy in the \front ranks of the world.\ ·Or. Reynolds said the ~econd group, led by Mao himself and now by his widow, is made up 'Of the so-called \radicals.\ \They place political values first: national autonomy, self-reliance~ and individual equality~·; \lf tlle final decision is correct, · they argue, why Worry about h-ow it is reached? As former Vice• Premier Teng Hsiao~p'ing p)lt it,, 'I don't care whether a cat is white or black, as long as she ·catches mice!\' Teng, once chosen as Chou's successor, is now disgraced. \The consensus which once existed on China's future is badly fractured,'• said Reynolds. The debate over the two policy lines \will continue for some time at all leve.ls of Chinese society~in facttnies, communes, schools, and local government bodies.~· Or- Reynolds predicted that \In due coUrse, and with little· or no bloodshed, one line will predominate.\ Only then \can we expect hew blood to appear among the top leadership.\ Even before Mao's death~ China's leadership had been badly weakened by mortality. The country's top policy body 1 the Standing Committee, had only fiV(: living members, compared to the nine .:it should have. Mao's death further weakened this ·~hQUS!: of cards,\ said ·· Dr. Reynolds. Or. Reynolds said he agreed with other Sinologists that ·~continued and intensified struggle\ will follow Mao's death. The transition, when it coines; ••may lie sudd-en., · and characteriz-ed by ''a series of mysterious meetings and .. bla-ck lilnousines coming and going in the night,\ he said. \When the dust dears the next morning, we may find a whole new roster of leaders.\ .. This suddenness often gives us the impression of a raw struggle for power at the top. But in reality, we will be witnessing the culmination of a long, national poiitical sturggle, the tip of a hidden iceberg.\ \The difficulty is that the political values of the radicals conflict with the tactics which China's moderates adopt :in pursuit of their economic goals,\ said Dr. Reynolds. \The moderates want to · import Western Techn<>logy-~hemical fertilizer, computers and aircraft. But just as we insist on 'energy independence,' China's radicals oppose this sort of reliance on foreign goods.\ . Utller differences extst between the two groups. For instance, while the moder.ates want wage differentials to stimulate worker productivity, the radicals oppose it, favoring equal incomes. Furthermore, according to Dr. Reynolds, raclicals favor mass participation in decision-making. \to the moderates this is a waste of time. !he leadership knows best, they say, and leaders'-views are going to prevail with or without hours of mass discussions.;, - THU: 4;30 p I. Appr. minutes. 2. Take approved b) Committee. 1976 3. Recon Committee Academic T1 attached, Pr, final page at 4. Re(.:omt charge from Committee Resources C< Jim Tn oversees lil D Last Thurst Forum met ar topics of con agenda was representative, who had me1 with acting he Anne Evans. position since last spring. M Mark that Committee, chairman, me~ interview 1 librarians. Th transition per appointment o Library Com11 that someone the end of -the Seltzer repor expressed .her over the lack library. It is student to takt library withou The only pen library mater inflicted ones; or laws on tht Books involv Installing a sec1 be Useful, but t Seltzer expre~ feelings that against stealinl increased mt already taxe~ budget). . Since the s) installed · until Attention and juniors: 1 open on tht · Committees. Marra's offict

. . CONCORD1ENSIS. Wednesday,· \Ott:- )7; 1976\ ,- • ' J: . College Senate Agenda THURS., NOV. 4, 4i30 :PM PSYCH. 213 1. Apptoval Qf previous minutes. 2. Take note of co1.1rses approved h.Y Educational Policy Committee. Minutes of April 30, 1976 3. Recommendation of tl;.e Committee on the ••Non- Academic Transcript.'' See report attached. Proposals cootained .in final page and one-half 4. Rec;:ommendation for revised charge from College Resources Com·mittee: The College Resour4;es C(:)mmittee works with the Vice Pres1dent lor College Resmuces and other members .of the College Resources. staff as appropriate, to consider ways in which· the on~campus community can become involved .to the fullest practical extent in activities thteugb which the Development, Alumni Affairs, and related function!! are . promoted, Tbe cormnittee further advises the Vice President on campus attitudes and reactions pertaining to anticip~ted ptQgr.ams and projects. 5. Recommendation from Professor Finkelstein for Jim Trump, President of Student Forum, b()dy that oversees all-students on committees. Dominate Forum- Last Thursday night, Stude.nt Forum met and discussed several topics of concern. First on the agenda was sophomore class representative, Mark D. Seltzer, who had met during the week with acting head Librarian, R~th Antle Evans. She has held that position since Dr. Tolan's death last spring. Ms. Evans informed Mark that the Library Committee, Dean Potts chairman, meets twice weekly to interview potential head librarians. The libFary is in a transition period awaiting the appointment of a new head. The Library Committee is confident that someone Will be picked by the end of -the term. Seltzer reported that Ms. Evans expressed .her extreme concern over the lack of security in the library. lt is very ~asy for a student to take a book from the library without checking it out. The . only penalties for stealing library materials are school inflicted ones; there are no codes or laws on the New York State Books involving this matter. Installing a security system wo.Uld be Useful, but the cost is $29;000. Seltzer expressed Ms. Evans' feelings that increased security against stealing would result in increased mutila~ion, (which already taxes the Iibra,ry's budget). Since the system will not be installed · until a new head is Attention all sophomores and juniors~ there is a position open on the Committee of Committees. Sign up in Mrs. · Marra's office. found, the hl:lrary Is maktng some changes that will hopefully increase security. Seltzer reported that one of the m'ost apparent changes is the construction of the reserved materials desk in the basement. 'This will allow the people at the circulation desk to pay closer attention to. students leaYing the library. Also, Ms. Evans wanted the doors in the back of the all-night -study to be locked, but students do not want to walk ali the way to the front door. Temporarily, the back door will re.main unlocked. The Fo11.1m, at the conclusion of Selt2:er's report, decided to simply rnake sure the Libr:::ary Committee continues to seek ways to improve security. Larry Fein, chairman of the Tax Committee then took the floor. Tighter bUdgeting of funds has convinced the Tax: Committee t-hat fund raising programs must be undertaken. Larry asked the · Forum to form an Ad Hoc Committee that will research ideas to · max.imize fund raising and entertainment for the campus and to minimize the time and complex.ity of the project. The ···forum passed the motion and formed . the Student ~ctivities Fund Raising Committee which will consist of five members. Harris Halpert was suggested as Chairman pending his approval b:Y the Committee on Committees. Larry also sugge~ted that the Forum consider the idea of ~forming a new Tax Committee at the end of winter term to allocate funds in the spring for the following yeat. Presidettt Jim Trump then adjourned the meetmg. The Forum meetings are on Thursday night at 8 p.m. in the Fox Lounge an<! are open to an interested students. ,permanent change in membership of the Admission!! Committee~' . A represe-ntative of the Office of the Dean of hculty to be appointed to the Admjssion~ Committee imrp·ediat.ely. Selection to be made each year by the Dean of Faculty, N.B. (l) Annual Report of Educational Policy Committee, 1·975-1916 is available, (2) The Agenda Committee continues to believe that the General ;J::ducation Pr-oposal Which was considered and tabled earlier (March 4, 1\976) should remain tabled·, Willard Enteman -, Chairman of. Agenda Committee. Student Committees: Who and What COMMITTEE MEMBERSHlP 1976-1977 COLLEGE SENATE Faculty: Division I: LeClerc ( Div. Chr.) ( 1971!), Wilson ( 1977), Ger~an (1978) Division 11: f.in~elstein (Div. Chr.) (W77). Phaup '( 1917'), Wells (i978) Division 111: Schick (l:>iv. Chr.J (J978), Fairchil4 (1977). Sutter (1978) Division IV: Craig (Oiv. Chr . .) (1979), Williams ( 1977), Milillo (1978) . Admini!tration: President Bonner, Provost Enteman, Dean Brownlee, Dean. Smith, Mr. C. Schmidt, secretary · - Students: Michael Ganz, Marcus Heth. William Jenkins. Andrew K.ohlenz, Jody La-vien, Mitchell Mindlin, Jeffrey Scheininger, Mark Seltzer, Christop~r Taylor, James Trump COLLEGE COMMITTEES ADMISSIONS This committee advises on the criteria observed in ru:cepting students and passes upon applications for admissions. Unlike other committees, this-· one will be directly involved not only in the formulation of plans and policies but also in· the implemental.ion of those pOlicies. This committee. must, ·however, work with the Director of Admissions in careful and responsible planning for the area of admissio_qs. F~lty: Elliston., Fairchild, Finkelstein, Gado, Goldbogen. Jones, Sch111idt, T. Schwarz, Sn!)w, Te:itroet, Weiner Admmistratiooi Elrteinan, ·Shup-e · · · · · Students: Matt Brief, Lesli!l·Goldstein, Jane Levine, H·arris Suzuki, Robert Wilson ATHLETIC The primary ()bligation of ·the Athletic Committee should-be planning for 8JI integrated' set of athletic programs which include intercollc.giate ai!IIetics, intramural athletics. recreational programs~ and general physical. educational opportunities for students. The committee is responsible for meeting the needs of the total campus \insofar as resource.s will permit. Faculty: BeTk, Werner Adn!lnlstraflon: Kershner Sludents: Charles Flanagan, Bruce Levitt. Elizabeth Yager Alumni: one to be chosen BOOKSTOJ{E This committ~ is .resp()nsible for working out plans and policies which relate directly to the campus store. It should seek out the opinions of variolls constituencies on the campus with respect to .the operations of the store, and it should supply guidance and advice to the Bookstore Manager about improvement\; which might be made. Facully: Sharlet. Thurston Administration; Greene Students: Diane DiFranco, Michael Perlman. Diane Wolf CAMPUS This committee considers the physical condition of the campus and makes rec.omm<:ndations t!l the Planning and Priorities Committee or ,the College Senate. It should consider the relationship among the various programs and program needs on the campus as they have an impact on the campus environment, and prepare and recommend detailed plans and policies for solving problems which arise with respect to the physical condition of the campus. Tltis committee should also review the conduct of the College regarding its impact on the local environment, and should make whatever suggestions it might feel appropriate. Faculty: Huntley, Tobiesse'n Administration: Walter Stone Students: Etta Jaco.bs, Kevin Schary Staff: 2 to be. chosen Al11mni: William Berner '58 CAREER PLANNIN<J This committee is responsible for the -development of an integrated and complete set of programs with respect to career collpseling and student and alumni placement. · Faculty: Britain, Girdner Admilliltntion: Miller Students: Ailison Jameson, Deborah Oster Al11mnJ: Cliffon! J. Benfield '46 COl.LE<JE RESOURCES This C()mmittce meets to consult with the Vice President- for College Resources to consider ways in whiCh that office can he helpful to the fotaFcampus effort. It is. charged with the responsibility for f<_J[mulating. fund raising !'bills ~tnd policies. Faculty: Martin, ~utter, Waters Administration: Rasmussen Students: I to be chosen Alumni: Ernest B. M.orris '28 CONTiNUING EDUCATION The major responsi~ility of this committee is to assist the Dean of Graduate 'Studies and Continuing Education in the formulation of policies and plans with respect to continuing education. ! he committee will have responsibility t.. encourage and to approve or diSllpprove programs. Facull~: Mason. Nye, Hdmarch Admini$tration: Feinsot Students: 2 to be chosen lU>UCATIONAL POLICY \the major responsibility of this committee is _the formu-lation of policies and plans with respect to matters of educational policy and curriculum. This cornmitt~-e wiU have responsibility to encourage and to approve or disapprove potential new programs within the curricUlum, and it will have responsibility for curricular ;md educational innovation. This committee will have primary responsibility for the. further development of the t'omprehe!1sive . Education Program, although it may want to ~pp<)iht a speCial subcommittee to deal with details and policies of that. program. The Educational Pc:illcy Committee will also have initial ad:visory responsibility for the fonnulation of careful plans with respect to the number of faculty and/ or their placement in various departments and programs. After consultation wiih the Plannhtg a nq Priorities Committee, thi's committee wili provide advice f~r thedi~tribution of various faculty within the constraints on total faculty posed by tl>\ Planning and· Priorities Committee. Faculty: Ne~tl Allen· ( !979-member-at4arge), Gajjar (1971!), Lambert ( 1978), Thimm (1977), Warde ( 1977) (Valdes replaces during leave) Admlnlstratiom Brownlee Students: Ronald Bergmann. Katherine Lapetina. Leslie Okladek COMMITTEE ON FA(;ULTY The four senior faculty members of the committee join with the Dean of Faculty in reviewing requests for faculty renewal. promotion and tenure. The six faculty members join with the Dean of Faculty in recommending to the Planning and Priorities Committee appropriate total faculty salary levels for planning with respect to specific budgetary years and in recommending to the Provost salaries for individual faculty members on an annual basis. The whole committee meets t() consider policies and plans with respect to faculty and faculty development. The whole.committee {or. at its discretion; some duly appointed ·subcommittee) meets to consider grievances between faculty members, and. as a last resort. grievances of students against , faculty, Fa.:ulty: Harlow ( 1977), Hull ( 1971). Jonas ( 1979); Ludwig ( 1978), (LeClerc replaces during leave) .. Scaife (1978). Seemann'( 1978) Administntlon: Brnwnlee Students: Catherine Shriver. David Rubin FINANCIAL AID This committee will be responsible for the formulation of p()lieies and plans with respect to financial aid. from time to time. this committee may be asked to assist the Director or Financial Aid in the determination of individual aid packages for upperclassmen. The committee may also bring particular cases t9. the attention of the Director of financild Aid and ask for explanation or clarification by the Financial Aid Director. Students should participate in decisions involving matters of policy, but they are not allowed to participate in the determination of individual awards. Faculty: G. Reynolds. G. Smith Administration: Maras Students: Terri Moran. Janice Vucinich. I freshman to be chosen GRADUATE STUDIES This committee h~ts responsibility for the formulauon of plans and policies with respect to graduate studies. It may make recommendations directly to the College Senate with respect to courses, programs. and conditions pertaining to graduate study at the College. Normally. such recommendations would be forwarded through the· Educational Policy Committee. and this committee should work closely with the Educational Policy C01nmittee. ,Faculty: Butterstein. Galantowic7. Griesinger. !'haup Administration: reinsot Students: 2 graduate students to he chosen HOUSING This committee is responsible for formulating policies and plans with respect to student residencies. This committee should work with the resident advisors and may, in exceptional circumstances, consider individual cases. Administration: Dowling. Students: Peter Barron. Robert Catalano. Amy Seid. I freshman to be chosen StaJJ: I to be chosen LIBRARY This committee. working with the librarian, formul~ttes policies ~tnd programs for the Library. It must work closely with the Educational Policy Committee and the Graduate Studies Committee. Fa~ulty: Eisenstadt, Hansen, Reece, Weick Adlilinisttation: Evans St~dents: Adele Reiclllinger. David Schroder, I freshman to be chosen PERSONNEL This committee is responsible for personnel plans and procedures including, b1,1t not restricted io, consideration of benefits and alternative benefit plans. It is also a committee for hearing-employees' grievances _against the College about employment conditions~ and it may wish, at its discretion, to set up a special subcommittee for hearing affirmative action complaints and grievances. It will be responsible for, determining that the Personnel Officer has seen that appropriate recruitment procedures have been followed before ;my duly auihorized letter of appointment be. sent. Faculty: Bristol. Prosper Adnihdstration: Hill Staff: 2 .to be chosen PLANNIN<J AND PRIORITIES The committee will work to establish overall plans for the College in accordance with priorities which ii should devise It will have responsibility for policies in budgetary areas and it will be asked to reflect upon any requests for significant changes in college budgets which have been approved previously. It will W()rk clt>sely with the Provost in developing plans which are as detailed as possible for the 'future of Union. Faculty: Aubrey ( 1977). Hartwig ( 1978). Kenney (at large-1978). Maciaricllo (at 'large•l977), W. Schwarz (1979), lhomas (1919) Administration: Enteman. Timberlake Students: Glenn Wolfson. David Lederkramer. Gary Philipson Staff: I to he chosen Contunued on Page 17

Page B. culture CONCORDIENSIS, Wednesday, Oct, 27, 1976 arts Traveling Show 'M h ., o· · · . · enaec m1 · ·pens by LEE WASSERMAN Anyone who has been at all interested or involved with the Union College theater program the past 4 years is no doubt familiar witb the names Gary Levy and Jody Stollmack. They have been thoroughly active in the Mountebanks for about as long as anyone can remember. It should be of no surprise ~hen that _they are currently engaged in yet another Mountebanks production this fall. The difference. in this play is that they are ce-directing, along with Barry Smith, the freshman play that opens this Friday. When asked about the a director to talk with is alWays available, putting an end to most problems that will arise for an actor during production. Thi$ takes on special importance in a freshman play, since the acters have to go through far more of an adjustment of,fstage than on. The rigors of getting used to college life, along with their major commitment .to the production, are tough for anyone to handle. Having 2 students to- talk with, who all'o happen to be directors, goes a-long way in easing the tmnsition. Another advantage of having· as~istant directors like Gary and, Jody is that they are still basically student actors. They see _ many things from an actor's viewpoint that a busy director might inadvertently let slip by. originally had intended. One of the freshmen with a major role unfmtt,mately was forced ,(o drop out of the production, leaving quite a void to be filled. Gary quickly stepped in, drawing upon his acting ability. The actors have been able to learn a great ,deal from working directly with an experienced .thespian. Hello, Tm a member of \Menqechmi.\ I'll be in the DLT Friday, Saturday, Sunday and Tuesday 8:00p.m. advantages of having 3 directors for the freshman · l}lay, their responses were.quite similar. Both touched on the need for good communications between the cast and director, and how it has been difficult in the past for everyone involved to contribute their own input. However, with 3 directors, · As things have· turned out, Gary will be contributing much more to the sbow than he Both Jody and Gl:lrY feel that The Twin Menaechrtd's strongest asset is that it is a fun show. Fun to rehearse, fun :to perform. and fun for the audience to become a part of. the Twin 1\1enaechnd opens this Friday and will run Saturday and Sunday of this week, as well as Wednesday through Sunday of .next week. The show will be performed at 2 locations, tb.e Directors' Lab Theatei' (2nd floor Carnegie), along with special performances at West College. Join in~ on the fun; become part of The Twin ~lenae£hmi. PEER GYNT Mountebanks' fall term production, Henrik Ibsen's Peer Gynt, will enter its last three weeks of production before the show opens in Nott Memorial on Nov. 12, 13, 14 at 8:30 and again on Nov. 17-20. The play is evolving nightly on the circular stage, during the important rehearsal sessions. Guest director Allan Wynroth, describes the rehearsal periods \ ... as a time of discovery and explanation - it is not a practice. Practice we hold till· the last thing.\ Wynroth views the play as a group effort, with the director as coordinator of the creative people. The actors are the ones who will be selling the show, so Wynroth feels that it is necessary that they develop the characters and scenes as they see fit. The ensemble and Wynroth have never discussed the play to determine the actual message of Peer Gynt. Director Wynroth feels it is important to leave the play open-ended, in order to allow the actors room to expand upo~ their roles. , to be Imaginative The lighting is an essential part of the. show which is unfolding nightly alongside the production. Peter Crames, lighting director attends rehearsals every evening in order to adapt to the moods of · the group. The costumes of pants and shirts are being designed by guest costumer, J ania Szatanski, who is utilizing only the colors of black, white, and gray. The set, which was designed by Prof. Charles Steckler, wiH be b a.s i c g eo metric shapes constructed of tubular metal. The. shapes will demand that the audience use its imagination and add their own \frills.\ Director Wynroth expressed· enthusiasm · over the round Nott which offers \a fantastic theatrical opportunity.\ The play will be done entirely in the round with motivation stemming from the all· black circular floor. Another important inp11t of the play will be the music, which will not be the famous Grieg score, but written and played by Judy Kottke, a .Union College Student. Wynroth felt that the play wa:s developing very well so far and praised the commitment and dedication that the young a~tors have shown. Rehearsals are held every evening from 9-11 p.m. in the Nott Memorial; all interested people are invited to attend. . _.,. I'm also in \Menaechmi.\ We'll all be in West College on Wednesday. Admission Free. Tickets for DRACULA, on Saturday, Nov. 6 in the Nott will be available starting Monday, Nov. 1 in Student Activities. The price will be $1.00 and there is limited seating, so they will go fast. Porky Comes to Union Mel Blanc, who has been called _ \The Man with A Thousand Voices,\ will be .appearing at Union College on Wednesday, November 3 at 8:30p.m. in Social Sciences 016. The cost will be $.50 for Union students and $1.00 for everyone else. Mr. Bianc began entertaining as a teenager in school, where he got \big laughs and lousy grades.\ He entered the Warner Brothers Studios in his twenties, during what would later he called the Golden Age of the Movies, the 1930's. fhe first ·character that was developed with his . flair for characterization was not Bugs Bunny, as is the .popular myth, . bu~ Porky 'Pig. The wacky rabbit was already established •as a cartoon beast before Blanc arrived, and he did not inherit the · lapin screwball tinti/1940. By 194.5 Blanc had over seventy-five characters, including . Pepe LePew, Elmer Fudd, Sylvester the cat, and, of course, Daffy Duck. His career was not limited to- cartoons, however. He was a regular on Jack Benny's radio show, both a~ a human being and as Benny's ancient Maxwell automobile. When . television regular on Benny's television program, in addition to doing the voice of Barney Rubble on the Flintstones. Since 1961, Mel Blanc has had two major interests. As a Shriner, he is constantly doing benefits for the crippled children ·in Shrine hospitals across America. ·His other main interest is Mel. 'Blanc Audiornedia, whose function is creating entertaining commercial campaigns and maintaining a radio programming ·service, Mel Blanc promises to be an interesting and amusing speaker. Wednesday is definitely a day to reme,mber. The-the-ah, the-the, ah, that's all folks! W mild you like to wor4 in the Box Office of the Nott Memorial selling :tickets fof the play Peer Gynt? If so, please sign up in the Green Room of the Nett. There will be an important meeting for aU thos(l interest~d on ~ond~c~y, Nov. l, at 4:30. Peer Gynt rehearsals continue all this week in the Nott. became popular+ Blanc became a ~-----------------' ar Is• to -lsrae perfo(\m D-vorak Thursda~ concert· Schenect Series. ; Union C at 8:30 J The . foremost will pia~ Ng. l, .. Dumky' minor, c Tlte t Israel in later WE before tt of the mak,jng group e\ society. · Americar 1971. .At t:h~ Time:; 1 technicall meet t standard~ Times c; ensemble. delicately strins qu The tri Jonathan Piaqka, .E Zak stu< Academy a schola JuiUiard : taking lri: for four ' Universit; as a soloi groups, a currently Academy ·PYE'r- Env.ironm. becoming recycling .. · Startin~ boxes w dormitory Please pi; you have weekl', stl boxes w delivered reclamatic Last Fri, Union Col served ash to a filled anticipatioJ Club's t Venezuela, de Meyer, .i Venezuela, Valarino, t Venezuela11 Ca-racas, W• concert. From t audience a1 was . a()IJ<

CONCORDIENS!S, ·wednesday, Oct. 27, 1976 . ~ - - Page9 Israeli Trio to Perform 'israel's : Yuval l'rio will perform works by Beet!loven, Hvorak and Mendelssqhn Thursday, Nov .. ll in the second concert · of the Union College- Schenectady Museum Concert- Series. The Concert will . be in Union College's Memorial Chapel at 8:30 .p.m. The . trio, one of Israel's foremost performing ensembles, will play 8eethoven's Opus 70, No.. l, ''Ghost''; Dvo·rak's \Duml<y\; and Mendelssohn's D minor, Op. 49. The trio made its. debut in Israel in 1969, and· only Qne year later was invited to perform before the Chamber Music Club of tbe Israel Philharm-onic, making them the first Israeli group ever to perform for that society .. The trio made its North American debut in the fall of 1971. At that time, the New York Times found .. each member Pianka was also. a scholarship student at t:he JuilliardSchool of Music.. Upon graduation~ he joined the Br!:m.cleis- Univen1ity String Quartet and became a teaching fellow t'here. Pianka h~s been conc.ertm<~,ster of the Israel Philharmonic since 1968. Heled received his musical training in IsraeL He was the leader of the cello section of the Israel Youth Orchestra for 7 years and later became principal ¢ellist of the Ramat Gan Chamber Orchestra. He is now principal cellist for the Israel Philharmonic. Su.b-scrip<tions to the Schenectady Museum-Union College Concert Series an~ .available at a discounted price of $15, taking into account fhe fact that ()ne performance in tM series has already taken place. Subscriptions ma:t be purchased at the door of the concert. culture The chamber music group Yuval trio will peiform November 1 I th. technically and musically able to meet top cham ber-mus.jc standards,\ while the Los Angeles Times called them \a genuine Troupe Presents. Dracula ensemble, as finely tempered and The mundane realm of Union delicately adjusted ~s the best College will be shrouded in the string quartet.\ ·twilight ·of the $Upernaturat when Ttie trio is made up of pianist Daedelus Productions present Jonathan Zak, violinist Uri Dracula in the Nott Memorial Pianka, .and ce.llist Simca Heled~ Theatre on Saturday, Nov. 6 at 8 Zak studied at . ,the Jerusalem p.m. .. Academy of Music befor~ coming Daedelus will be appearina at a scholarship student at the the college by spepial arrangement Juilliard School of Mus'ic. After with the Social Commit~ee, the. taking his M.S. there, he· taught Arts Departll}ent and th~ for four years at Louisiana State Mountebanks •. A Boston based University. A frequent performer firm, Daedelus is entering its Sth as a soloist, member of chamber seasan as a college tour unit. The groups, and accqnipanist, Zak is troupe has explored a range. of, currently teaching at th~ Rubin performance material during- the Academy of Music in Tel Aviv. few years; their repertoire has included Sylvia Plath, based on PYE'f-. Protect . Youf the life of the late poet, and an ·Environment Club (PYE) is adaptation of Nikolai Gogol's becoming acti\,'e in ne-wspaper The Diarl' <lf a M•dm·an. recycling. Dracula will be the. first live · Starting this week, marked· .theater 'performance here· by a boxes wiU be place on all visiting company in more than a dormitory a·nd fniternity floors. year. Ill Oaedelus~ the college will Please place all newspapers that host a critically-reviewed g~:oup of you have in these boxes. Every 2 12 actors and actresses which has weeks, starting on Nov. 5 these· appeared at colleges' throughout boxes wUI be · empti~d and the eastem United States. delivered to a newspaper · reclamation center. · · · South America,n Tour Glee Club Anticip,ates Last Friday night, Oct. 22, the Union College Men~s Giee Club served as hosts and entertainment to a filled Memorial Chapel. In anticipation of the Men's Glee Club's trip this June to Venezuela, Mercedes Bermudez de Meyer, the Boston consul from Venezuela, and Dr. Jesus Morales Valarino, the vice-:president of the Venezuelan Central University of Caracas, were in attendance at the concert. · From the reaction of the audience and our special guests, it was apparent that Randall Thompson's \The Testament of Freedom\ was a success and the Glee Club's trip to South America seemed more promising than ever. But in the more immediate future,. they would like to see more students in attendance. To assure thjs, they will try to keep the student body well informed of their activities. The next concert here at Union for the Men's Glee Clllb will be with Simmons College on Saturday, Nov. 20,. at 8 p.m. in Memorial Chapel. Union students will be admitted free. . S. Mack. H. A. Wil:son,_M. DeMeyer,. Dr. Morales. However, as the company says, \Don't take our word for it.'' Tickets are one dollar ($1) and will be on sale in the Student Activiti.es Office beginning Monday, Nov. I. Seating for this show in the Nott will obviously be limited. If y.ou mlssed the Red Cross Bloodmobi,le this week be sure not.to avoid Dr~cula on Nov. 6 in the Nott Memorial Theatre. Vishiac Speaks by JOSEPH MILLETT Last Monday afternoon Dr. Roman Vishniac gave a slide presentation and lecture about his life and work in photography and the sciences entitled \Photography - The Wings of Hope and Concern.\ The presentation lasted about an hour and a question and answer session followed. Dr. Vishniac presented himself as a warm, amusing man with many fascinating stories to accompany each photograph. He has over 10 ·different degrees in the sciences from universities around the globe. He has taken photographs of everything imaginable, from microsc-opic amoebae to the Jews of the Crakow ghetto. He is a 'man with a great range of knowledge and ap abundance of compassion for his subjects. The 80-year-old scientist- photographer apologized for his tardiness, explaining that his wife had been injured in a mountain climbing accident. He then THOUGHTS OF AUTUMN One late autumn afternoon, · Between seasons of the year, When one knows not whether to expect A warm day, or a cold, Two people sat. · Against the cool gray light of day They noted the signs of change: The now vivid red eroding the landscape, and their own flighty summer thoughts Aging with the season, becoming introspective and fixed, Drawn by winter's approach. As if storing food for the winter months, Autumn's subtle offerings are collected To prepare for spiritual warmth and . contentment, Awaiting Nature'~ renaissance. ' - Willie Basil FROST IS PREDICtED Bare trees- doze in the sun, their feet blanketed in tawny leaves. Beyond, ragged hills appear wrapped in blue shawls, gray fringed; The river twists a black scarf through faded fields, where not a dried grass stirs in the stilled air. No bird flutters, no insect molests the silence that awaits .. the needle of Winter's white sleep. ....... Priscilla Sanders (from With You in Mind, at the bookstore) ... proceeded to show his microfiche --------------- ... ----------• of v.arious organisms. After that, Dr. Vishniac showed stills from World War ll, photographs t~at he · had obtained from Nazi propaganda forces. After a . question and answer session, which he described his career for Life magazine, Dr. Vishniac showed the slides for Which ·he has won world renown, pictures of P91ish Jews in the yeats before the war. The audience was silent in awe. For those of you who rnissed the Vishniac lecture and presentation, the Museum will be opening an exhibit of his photographs on Oct. 30. ihe exhibit will, run unHI Dec. 5, and is presented in connecdort with the Union · Gailery. The Museum is located on Nott Terrace Heights, .east off \lott terrace . THURSDAY, OCTOBER. 28 -.PAUL BURNS - FOLK SINGER & SUE FINKELSTEIN - GHOST STORIES M.C.- MARK D. SELTZER INCIDENT ALIST - KEN NEEDLEMAN lEAR A COSTUME. (Not Required)

Page 10 CONCORDIENSJS, Wednesday, Oct. 27, 1976 ED ITO.RIALS Why You Should Vote --------------------- by MATT BRIE$ Carter In a democratic form of government, however irnpetfect it may be, it is the political obligation of every citizen to go. tQ the polls and register his preference. This is the only chance each of us gets to stand up and be counted. OJ.!;r criticisms. of the political processes, furthermore, are meanin~ess if we fail ·to exercise our legitimate input into political sDheres through our right to vote. Neither President Ford not Governor Carter are motivating leaqers or ideologically competent. Regardless of tbe paucity of ql.lalified and warthwbile .candidates, our obligations a·re still clearly defined-each of us must select the man whom we. f~el is the better man to occupy the highest offi,ce of the land. 'tinder ·stich ·conditions, we must support Jimmy Carter. Mr. Carter's approach to the presidency is more healt)ly than the position Mr. Ford· has adopted over the past two yeat:S. The Governor promises to be innovative and active, two characteristics which are essential to the suc9ess of any administration. Mr. Ford has failed on both of these categories. As. the GovernQr so aptly said during Friday night's debate, he (Carter) offers a \new spirit, .. while Mr. Ford rema·ins tied to ~he past in a myopic, doctrinaire fashion. Domestically, the challenger has proffered a host of ideas which are indicative of his approach. Mr. Carter recognizes the need of public employment, th<; removal of tax looplioles which benefit only the rich, and the necessity· of easing welfare costs and helping cities. He supports the long overdue gun eontrol legislation and a nationwide health insurance pro~ram. Lastly, his awareness of the people's needs is in all areas, far · more acute than that .of the incumbent and promises to yield improvements for all Americans. · Mr. Ford remains obstinately tied to the interests of big money. Despite the already egregious inequities in the tax structure, !he President still favors further tax incentives. President Ford's economic responses have averted some of the problems whicll face us, but have failed to produce definitive results th;1t benefit the nation as a whole. While a prudent economic policy is laudable, President Ford has constantly short-changed those programs which have the greatest impact on the people. However, he continuously supports the development of numerous wasteful and unncecessary military toys and a swollen defense budget. The Ford record stands for itself as an innocuous stage ·Of stagnation. His administration, in marking time for two years, has yielded little that merits confidence. The so-called 'ambiguities' iri the Carter platform are reflections of the problems confronting any cballenger. By definition, his proposals are theoretical. In contrast, Mr. Ford's policies are fact. Any program of change is -a pi1or'i 'less concrete than existing systems. The President has lifted us beyond the aura of the Watergate era, permitting each of us to breathe a little easier: But, after pardoning Mr. Nixon, he opposed any ·real amnesty for draft evaders of the Vietnam War. He has selected a running mate who barely exceeds the Agnew caliber .. The only positive thing about Bob Dole is that he has a reputation which would not eclipse that even of Jerry Ford thtee years ago. In comparison, Mr. Mondale shines like a star and, perhaps; might be a better presidential choice than anyone who is in the candidate's slot. For too long the cou_ntry has been without an effective, dynamic leader. For too long we have been deprived of top grade candidates. For too long the people have been forced to vote for one nominee over another, rather than vote for a man they honestly support. And, unfortunately, this year offers little to change all that. But our obligation to vote remains no less firm. After seeing what Mr. Ford has done for the past two years and hearing what Mr. Carter hopes to accomplish over the next four, there can be little area for debate. Moynihan Clearly, New Yorkers face a choice in their Ser; ~. '.J choices. ·If yoyreveled in the philosophy of M. Stanton c .1ns in his conservative treatise, Clear and Present Dangers, then Senator Buckley deserves your zealous support. Buckley supports federal spending for a bloated Pentagon budget, the poor and impoverished must make their own way without federal aid. New York's present' Senator has little concern for the jobless while supporting Ford's futile attempts at controlling the inflationary spiraL His record on Civil Liberties ranging from support on Intelligence Agencies' peccadillas to his harsh stands- on Abortion and Pornography is appalling. Of course, his desertion of New Yor~ City at .the time when the metropolitan giant most needed a voice in Washington may be the crassest act of alL On the other hand, Daniel Patrick Moynihan offers a fresh choice in New York state senatorial politics. His public service career has been distinguished and his mind is first rate (a quality that often eludes our political elites). His Family Assistance Plan, (FAP) that was put forth by the Nixon Administration and defeated by a crazy coalition of Conservatives and Liberals in the Senate was and remains an example of his innovative thinking. Moynihan is compassionate enough to understand the needs of the jobless and the value of pride. Concurrently, he understands that prices must be controlled. New Yorkers have the opportunity.to be represented by a man Who proved to be the boldest defender of Israel and Democracy in the United Nations. He understands the phrase \peace through strength, •• yet is perspicuous enough to condemn the foolishness bf going full speed ahead on t·he B-l program. Moynihan has made mistakes in the past, his ''benign neglect\ memo to Nixon has cost him valuable black support (including Dr. Kenneth Clark). However, his record on the whole !-.hOW!-. a far greater concern for the underprivileged than his counterpart in this race, We support Moynihan cnthmJa-.ticall\ and urge all members ol the Union commumty to reJect the Incumbent. I dropped my Absentee ballot in the mailbox fully knowing that I had no impact in this American -electoral year. l de~ated between Carter and McCarthy realizing that my vote was .one amonst millions and statistically meaningless. Both in the Senate and House races. I voted knowing Lhat no one really cared what box l checked, · · Why .vote then? l think that most every student on. this campus has convictions or feelings. Intellectual or not, each one of us would like to see Society work in a better manner. That manner, is. · of course, defined by the individual's va1ues. Of ~:;ourse, one's vote will take the direction tnat he desires. Some social scientists will even agree that our el~cted ·officials are captives of the eriV:iroriment with little. latitvde or free choice. So, in fact, one's. vote has very little effect in the ''real world.\· · Still, I spent quite a While deciding what boxes to check. At one; point I expected to see Judicia1 candidate~ endorsed jointly by the Neo~Nazis and Hadassah. Surely;\' at one time or another we ail feel politically impotent. Ultimately, the reason why l cast my vote wa.s one of conscience. I don't · expect to use ·a legal background to enter· into public affairs; that time is still far o(f, B'asically, it aU boiled down\io this: if I didn't vote I Would be making no comment on the WC?rld: as it exists. Poverty, the Economy, and Foreisn Policy issues would be iss~es for others to ponder. Symbolically, though, my vote was my comment on the direction of the. world. Call it sociological brainwashing or whatever, but high unemployment disturb~ me, and the Vote Wa!! my only vehicle to choose someone who might do something about the situation. · Had I not voted, I would have felt enormously guilty. The guilt would not just have been the type of silly embarrassment that one eliminl!,tes with a smiling shrug of -the shoulders. At this point in time, there's so many things incredibly wrong in our so¢iety that everyane ought to be bothered at least a little bit. My vote was a pitiful but sincere . symbolic gesture af concern. Thus, I t:ealize my· checks- in boxes will not determine any elections. I also realize ·that there may be no difference between the various candidates. Still, I'm not about to leave college tomorrow and crusade for justice, or do social work for the ·poor, or any such noble endeavor. The time AAHHHH!!l\ . isn't \ripe; yet. In the meantime, I have my little che~;:ks in boxes to show that I know some things are wrong; and I care. enough to at least hope somebody else will ,tr.y to do something about it. It helps me sleep'. J.v. soeeer To The Editors: . Let it be known that there is a Union· team that holds a record of 6-1. This team has a six game winning. streak . which includes a shutout. Not much publicity or recognition is given this· team. They are forced to depend on their outrageously boisterous bench for support. even at home games. We could have recei:ved a great deal more moral support at our games, but we do not make excuses for ourselves. Still. it would have been uplifting to have OUR PEOPLE there to cheer us c>n, UNION PEOPLE. When the average U nion.ite is asked if he is aware that one of bis tel!,ms is 6-l, does he know What team it is? Hardly. He wjll know that the women's swiln team tried to get off the ground last year and was found under the ground this year. He will also know· that this is Union's .first year with a J. V. football team. . All this is common knowledge, because he sees these team schedules printed on sports calendars · around campus~ But does anyone know which teani it is that has the best record on campus but still is forced to lurk in the shadows of varsitY sports:? Do you know? Ask the person next to you .. Does he know? Let it be known that this is-tbe team coached by alumnus John Denio. You must know of him. ·-at least. Now know t.hat this team is the Union College Junior Varsity Soccer Team. We play Middlebury on LITTERS . .. ' Saturday, October 31. The game is at two o·clock. Come cheer Us on to ~mother vict~ry. · · Sincerely, emotional impact of this issue. I strongly feel that this is unfair to the players as students and as human behtgs. . The J. V. Soccer Team So, whether you feel it is the adminstration's policies -or those fairness •• heekey of Coach Harkness which are at fault, it is important to remember To the Edil'ors: · that there are both advantages In the interest of fairness, 1 and disadvantages concerning this feel that some things s.houtd be entire corttroverl!y; and most said in favot of' the: hockey impor.tandy, we. are dealing here program at Union C<>llege, l say ~ith human beings as wen as with this specifically because time and tssues. time again ·1 have picked up this ~ Sincerely, paper and. seen nothing but Sue Portin '79 negative remarks about the team and the controversy surrounding wakeless morning it. This is not to ·say that there aren't' questions that need. to .be To the Editors: answered before a final decision is made. However, I do feel that not- For a great many people not enough is being said about the only within the confines of Onion benefits that the team has brought College but all over the world, to Union. First, the team has there· is but one comforting instilled pride in Oi,lr athletics aspect on which to dwell during that horrible limbo between program and has created a tremen<loos amount of $pirit . awakening fro-m · sleep and (especially irl winter term, the ·starting one's first activity, time when increased spirit is whether that be a college class or a needed' most). Secondly, the day at· work. The comforting hockey team and its .. success has aspect to which I refer is that brought the comp:~.uriiiy Closer first cup of coffee. Not only does with the colk:g~. a fact which 1 qne savor the aroma .and ·flavor consider .to· b~ vcrrY 'positjve. of the hot liquid but also ·the Finally. 1 would· like to speak a effects which occur to one who word in ddense of the players indulges. themselves. Whether you are. for Th.is is why l was or aga·inst the expansion of the tremendously angry _at SAGA-on hockey progfarn, there can be no the mprning of Oct<lber 26th. As doubt that · the members of the I stumbled out of bed and team are the victims of this stumbled down to West CoUege~ controversy, This is l>:e()anse, it·· was with a sigh of deep through no fault of their own, disappointment that I watched t.hey end up taking the brunt of only four drops of the precious the hostilities created the liquid struggle into l'l'lY gently Sa j ·Duet the ''qt campus, consistir the Ad Public Beautific with <i~ Comp .E this pas highly S< which ' reporter understa !lnonymc open del .press, the lt has this COl been co: about t~ Union s1 that ala commun men a,nc ·an.As! this adr the tepu tothe p( none, ext~nsiv~ mauer. ~ stock of Store, missions Bambo.o Colony . and he Harvard and the project < intensi'\1 investiga prepared We re the a Hereafte1 compell~ interview admissim a great . SAGA (l tooccut qu to the 1 We fe . Union ( Concord: expect t~ in our r the dicta i.e. the f. and sub The ilrti \Campus least wit} trespassir the facts. Ms. P~ involved, call secUI weren't someone especially guys an around. ~ to call S .o.bviously C<?ncer our revea to a po \where tl why the1 buzzer s) nonsense. that noS an all-git thoughtfu serious a~ lf Ms. sources f( have beet the sour<

Page 10 CONCORD1ENSIS, Wednesday, Oct. 27, 1976 EDITO.RIALS • ' •• : ' .: • •' ' • • ,.~ '· •• ·~ • ,\ ' ' • ' ,• \'.: • ,' ' j •• • • • '' ~ • ' ·, ' • •• Carter In a democratic form of government, however imperfect it may IDe, it is the political obligation of every citizen to go to the polls and register his preference. This is the only chance each of us gets to stand up and be counted. Our criticisms of the political processes, furthermore, are meaningless if we fail to exercise our legitimate input into political spheres through our right to vote. Neither President Ford nor Governor Carter are motivating leaders or ideologically competent. Regardless of the paucity of qualified and worthwhile candidates, our obligations are still clearly defined-each of us must select the man whom we feel is the better man to occupy the highest office of the land. Under such conditions, we must support Jimmy Carter. Mr. Carter's approach to the presidency is more healthy than the position Mr. Ford· has adopted over the past two years. The Governor promises to be innovative and active, two characteristics which are essenti::d to the success of any administration. Mr. Ford has failed on both of these categories. As the Governor so aptly said during Friday night's debate, he (Carter) offers a \new spirit,\ while Mr. Ford remains tied to the past in a myopic, doctrinaire fashion. Domestically, the challenger has proffered a host of ideas which are indicative of his approach. Mr. Carter recognizes the need of public employment, the removal of tax loopholes which benefit only the rich. and the necessity of easing welfare costs and helping cities. He supports the long overdue gun control legislation and a nationwide health insurance program. Lastly, his awareness of the people's needs is in all areas, far more acute than that of the incumbent and promises to yield improvements for all Americans. · Mr. Ford remains obstinately tied to the interests of big money. Despite the already egregious inequities in the tax structure, the President still favors further tax incentives. President Ford's economic responses have averted some of the problems which face us, but have failed to produce definitive results that benefit the nation as a whole. While a prudent economic policy is laudable, President Ford has constantly short-changed those programs which have the greatest impact on the people. However, he continuously supports the development of numerous wasteful and unncecessary military toys and a swollen defense budget. The Ford record stands for itself as an innocuous stage of stagnation. His administration, in marking time for two years, has yielded little that merits confidence. The so-called 'ambiguities' in the Carter platform are reflections of the problems confronting any challenger. By definition, his proposals are theoretical. In contrast, Mr. Ford's policies are fact. Any program of change is ·a pr\mrt less concrete than existing systems. The President has lifted us beyond the aura of the Watergate era, permitting each of us to breathe a little easier. But, after pardoning Mr. Nixon, he opposed any real amnesty for draft evaders of the Vietnam War. He has selected a running mate who barely exceeds the Agnew caliber..The only positive thing about Bob Dole is that he has a reputation which would not eclipse that even of Jerry Ford three years ago. In comparison, Mr. Mondale shines like a star and, perhaps, might be a better presidential choice than anyone who is in the candidate's slot. For too long the country has been without an effective, dynamic leader. For too long we have been deprived of top grade candidates. For too long the people have been forced to vote for one nominee over another, rather than vote for a man they honestly support. And, unfortunately, this year offers little to change a.JI that. But our obligation to vote remains no less firm. After seeing what Mr. Ford has done for the past two years and hearing what Mr. Carter hopes to accomplish over the next four, there can be little area for debate. Moynihan Clearly, New Yorkers face a choice in their Senatorial choices. If yo1.,1reveled in the philosophy of M. Stanton Evans in his conservative treatise, Clear and Present Dangers, then Senator Buckley deserves your zealous support. Buckley supports federal spending for a bloated Pentagon budget, the poor and impoverished must make their own way without federal aid. New York's present Senator has little concern for the jobless while supporting Ford's futile attempts at controlling the inflationary spiral. His record on Civil Liberties ranging from support on Intelligence Agencies' peccadillas to his harsh stands- on Abortion and Pornography is appalling. Of course, his desertion of New York City at the time when the metropolitan giant most needed a voice in Washington may be the crassest act of all. On the other hand, Daniel Patrick Moynihan offers a fresh choice in New York state senatorial politics. His public service career has been distinguished and his mind is first rate (a quality that often eludes our political elites). His Family Assistance Plan, (F AP) that was put forth by the Nixon Administration and defeated by a crazy coalition of Conservatives and Liberals in the Senate was and remains an example of his innovative thinking. Moynihan is compassionate enough to understand the needs of the jobless and the value of pride. Concurrently, he understands that prices must be controlled. New Yorkers have the opportunity to be represented by a man who proved to be the boldest defender of Israel and Democracy in the United Nations. He understands the phrase \peace through strength,\ yet is perspicuous enough to condemn the foolishness of going full speed ahead on the B-1 program. Moynihan has made mistakes in the past, his \benign neglect\ memo to Nixon ha~ cost him valuable black support (including Dr. Kenneth Clark). However, his record on the whole ~ho~A-~ a far greater concern for the underprivileged than hi\ counterpart in thi~ race. We support Moynihan enthu~ia~ticall:,. and urge all members of the Union community to reject the incumbent. Why You Should Vote by MATT BRIEF I dropped my AbseRtee ballot in the mailbox fully knowing that I had no impact in this American elecloral year. I debated between Carter and McCarthy realizing that my vote was one amonst m iII ions and statistic a II y meaningless. Both in the Senate and House races I voted knowing Lhat no one reaHy cared what box I checked. Why vote then'? I think that j.v. soeeer To The Editors: Let it be known that there is a Union team that holds a record of 6-1. This team has a six game winning streak which includes a shutout. Not much publicity or recognition is given this team. They are forced to depend on their outrageously boisterous bench for support. even at home games. We could have received a great deal more moral support at our games, but we do not make excuses for ourselves. Still, it would have been uplifting to have OUR PEOPLE there to cheer us on, UNION PEOPLE. When the average Unionite is asked if he is aware that one of his teams is 6-l, does he know what team it is? Hardly. He will know that the women's swim team tried to get off the ground blst year and was found under the ground this year. He will also know that this is Union's first year with a J. V. football team. All this is common knowledge, because he sees these team schedules printed on sports calendars around campus. But does anyone know which team it is that has the best record on campus but still is forced to lurk in the shadows of varsity sports? Do you know? Ask the person next to you. Does he know? Let it be known that this is·the team coached by alumnus John Denio. You must know of him, at least. Now know that this team is the Union College Junior Varsity Soccer Team. We play Middlebury on most every student on this campus has convictions or feelings. Intellectual or 1101, each one of us would Hke to see Society work in a better manner. That manner, is, of course, defined by the individual's values. Of course, one's vote will take the direction that he desires. Some social scientists will even agree that our elected officials are captives of the environment with LITTERS Saturday, October 31. The game is at two o•clock. Come cheer us on to another victory. Sincerely, The J. V. Soccer Team fairness to hoek.ey To the Editors: In the interest of fairness, I feel that some things should be said in favor of the hockey program at Union College. I say this specifically because time and time again ., have picked up this paper and seen nothing but negative remarks about the team and the controversy surrounding it. This is not to say that there aren't questions that need to be answered before a final decision is made. However, I do feel that not enough is being said about the benefits that the team has brought to Union. First, the team has instilled pride in our athletics program and has created a tremendous amount of spirit (especially in winter term, the time when increased spirit is needed most). Secondly, the hockey team and its success has brought the community closer with the college, a fact which I consider to be very positive. Finally, I would like to speak a word in defense of the players themselves. Whether you are for or agaimt the expansion of the hockey program, there can be no doubt that the members of the team are the victims of this controversy. This is because, through no fault of their own, they end up taking the brunt of the hostilities created the little latitude or free choice. So, in fact, one's vote has very little effect in the \real world.\ Still, I spent quite a while deciding what boxes to check. At one point I expected to see Judicial candidates endorsed jointly by the Neo-Nazis and Hadassah. Surely,'- at one time or another we all feel politically impotent. Ultimately, the reason why I cast my vote was one of conscience. I don't expect to use a legal background to enter into public affairs; that time is still far off. Basically, it all boiled down to this: if I didn't vote I would be making no comment on the world as it exists. Poverty, the Economy, and Foreign Policy issues would he issues for others to ponder. Symbolically, though, my vote was my comment on the direction of the world. Call it sociological brainwashing or whatever, but high unemployment disturbs me, and the vote was my only vehicle to choose someone who might do something about the situation. Had I not voted, I would have felt enormously guilty. The guilt would not just have been the type of silly embarrassment that one eliminates with a smiling shrug of the shoulders. At this point in time, there's so many things incredibly wrong in our society that everyone ought to be bothered at least a little bit. My vote was a pitiful but sincere symbolic gesture of concern. Thus, I realize my checks in boxes will not determine any elections. I also realize that there rnay be no difference between the various candidates. Still, I'm not about to leave college tomorrow and crusade for justice, or do social work for the poor, or any such noble endeavor. The time isn't ripe, yet. In the meantime, I have my little checks in boxes to show that I know some things are wrong, and I care enough to at least hope somebody else will try to do something about it. It helps me sleep. emotional impact of this issue. I strongly feel that this is unfair to the players as students and as human beings. So, whether you feel it is the adminstration's policies or those of Coach Harkness which are at fault, it is important to remember that there are both advantages and disadvantages concerning this entire controversy; and most importantly, we are dealing here :With human beings as well as with lSSUeS. Sincerely, Sue Portin '79 wakeless morning To the Editors: For a great many people not only within the confines of Union College but all over the world, there is but one comforting aspect on which to dwell during that horrible limbo between awakening from sleep and starting one's first activity, whether that be a college class or a day at work. The comforting aspect to which I refer is that first cup of coffee. Not only does one savor the aroma and flavor of the hot liquid but also the effects which occur to one who indulges. This is why l was tremendously angry at ~ the morning of October 26th. As I stumbled out of bed and stumbled down to West College, it was with a sigh of deep disappointment that I watched only four drops of the precious liquid struggle into my gently . I Sa· ] Due tc the \qu; campus, consistin, the Adr Public I Beautific: with ce1 Cornp E< this past highly se: which w reporter understar anonymo open deb press, the It has 1 this corr been con about the Union st that a lat communi men and all. As il this adrr the reput to the po none, \ extensive matter. V stock of Store, ~ missions Bamboo Colony I and bel Harvard and the project o in ten si v' investigat prepared 1 We rec the a1 Hereafter . compelled interview admission tremblin~ ' class of I bre~.kfast expects ~ disgrace breakfast a great 1 SAGA c~ to occur~ qn• To the .E, We fee Union C Concordy expect th; in our n' the dictat i.e. the fa, and sub~ The artie \Campus least with trespassin. the facts. Ms. Pa involved, call securi weren't someone especially guys an1 around. S to call Sc obviously Concerr our reveal to a p0t \where th why then buzzer sy: nonsense. that no St an all-girl thoughtful serious as If Ms. sources fo have been the SOUI'Ci

'l--~ . . ' . CONCORDIE_NSIS!.. Wednesday,. Oct. 27, 1976 Pagell Satire: Report on Student Life by Dan Rosenbilluln sex. An intensive physical installation of soft music and . Due tG the .. recent outcry about examination will be required at colored lights into the south side the \quality\ of the mert on the interview~ ihe results of the of Fox House; the former DU campus, an ad hoc cammittee examination will be weighed hpuse. Lab grades will be given consisting ·Of select members of · · · A · h · the Admissions, ·Student Life, heavier than any othet critena •. s· . ~Y eac · partner. Cnteria will be such a policy cl!n - be quhe worked out by each professor, as Public Relations and Campus · hl '11 b h · · · 1 b 8 'fi · c ·. . . . . wearins, a!J, expa~d~d and htg . Y w1 · e t. e asstgntng ot · a .. ~autll~att?n · ommt~tees met . ·pmfessional admtss1ons staff. w1U manuals. With certam . m~mbers of ~be be needetl. We suggest Housing is a very sticky C~mp Ed Board m h~cr~t~ ~esslon investigating t{te Fantasia ~ealth problem. _1he commtttee. _has ~~lshlpast .. ~~ek. T :Y Issued a ~pa ,ror truly profess10na,l been unabl~ to r:a~~ a cc:m~~nsus tg_ y sens~tlve,. ~op secret rep~~ mtervtewers. ab()!Jqhe Ide~J hvmg condtttons. whlch was. passed on to . tlus . .We ate awa:.re however. that Some advocate co~ed living· re~ort~r dh~ 1 'a. sQ~:ce. wh?, the airr;.of. geog~~phical di;etsity ·s()me, co-ed floo_r_s; some: un ers an a y, . mus. . re~am may conflict w1th the goal of segregated dorms. lhose wh<:> anonymous. ln _lhe mterest . of personal interviews. In such favor the first claim say that it is open debate and; fre~dom of the cases, recommendations, similar the role of the school to provide .press, the report IS prmted~~elow, to the ones filed. by applicant's the optimum atma&J:}here for .the . ~t has co~e to theattent~on of teachers, should be required. In happiness of the students. lhe thts com~1ttee that ~here . has view of the gravitY of these peer proponents of the last agree~ ihey been constaera?Ie hea~ed .d.ebate evaluations, we. suggest a claim the students shouldn~t be about the phystcal destrabthty of minimum, of five .(5) such letters, thrown into .a. situation they do Union students. Tt would appear each notariied. This should 'OOt want. It is, therefore, that a large seQtor of the campus insure true talent and experience. ,recommended by the committee community believes that Union The student aid structure will that the liousing Committee men an~ women are seco~d .to also have to be changed slightly. look into the problem and report • all: As tt. i~ the. avowed. a1m of Instead of basi':lg .aid on need; back to us. thts admmtstratwn to unp.rove academic excellence or even N 0 ne of the above the reput~tion of (j\H.ion College athletic achievement, 'student aid recommendations can, in any to the pomt where 1t IS second to should be based ':solely on the way, shape,. or form, be construed none,. we have P.erformed personal interview or letters. It t.o harm Union's academic extensJve . research Into t~e should be noted that since there standing. If anything it will' help matter. We have re~d the enttre is no NCAA or ECAC of develop. a happy, well--adjusted stock of the Contmental. B'?ok desirability., there is no such student body. let those ingrates St.or~, gone on f~ct-fmdtng thing as a recr.uiting violation. wish they were at Williams now! mlsstons to ·Lo~enzo'~ and the The committee is aware, Bamboo Club, mvesttgated th~ however, that raw talent must be <;olony Art and. State theaters, educated. To that end, .then, ~nd held .hear!ngs on . the instead of re-instituting an Harvard Umvers1ty . ex.penment English requirement, as has been and the Fourth· Floor West discussed we recommend a project. of 1975. After. such .an requirem;nt of FE 28 ·(Self, Sex, ~nten.stv~ and ·. exhausttve and Dissent) and CEd U9 (Sex mvest1gatwn, . we are now and Society). The latter .;:ourse prepared to make our report. . will have a 4~hour weekly Jab TherefoFe, ·in the interests of Union College, the committee makes the above recommendations on the 23rd day of October, 1976 A.D. We recom!fie~d .a chang~ m session. Lab partners will be, of the adnnss10n.s po:I1cy. course, .of the opposite sex. To Hereafter, all applicants Will be avoid problems, .partners will be compelled to· have a perso.nal selected at random. As there is inter.vi~w with a member of t~e currently no place where such a adm1sstons staff of the oppos1te lab call be held, we S\.lggest the NOT:E: l(should be noted that this is the only copy of the report, due to the highly confidential nature <:>f it. Therefore, special_ care should be taken to preserve the secrecy of this . paper. If it appears in Concordy with our names, we're _sunk for sure. f'· s:¢b.(>\.6 .. ,.1; •· ·.· .. : . many b.f ; .. . 'Sh()Ulct ~HW~i:~Jt~Aid(tilt,il .· ... ~·····:••······· ·nut ti) · ,tiasture.'· '·stit, ~~-~:\ 'oti:mt.ir\1 ···~tcqi~nJ' for ::myself and f(jt . expects a op~£uily, ·.the future. · the several of my friends. 1 can disgrace not t<l provide coffee at writers <;)f'Contoid}' will io:oneern honestly Sl)y that there are some breakfast. Coffee IS breakfa&t· to themselves. nto~e with the factual, interesting. exciting, and sensuous a great numb~r of people, and not the sensational, aspects of the young men dn this campus. You ·SAGA cannot allow this mistake story .. ·' · must not ~e looking in the right to occur again. the s .. ite lnvoll'ed places. Sincerely yours, As for you, Xaviera, l hope . Laut'ie'Merrill ·'to• \\&Vi .. •. ra· that we·canget together sometime Class· ofl980 ~ .::::; btd'ore you c.omplete your faetS . There were various \letter$\ .. sentence\ at this institution, and I . and \p(!T$_()116/s'' ill response to possibly roake your laSt days CJft~St ODed Xa}liera. which were before .parole a . 'bit more to the EditorS: . , inappropriate to print becalise of m~morable. As fo~ th,~re . \n?t obse.ene innuendos. bemg enough motion, I will We feel that as students of · · forewarn yoU that after knowing. . Union College and readers of me a short while, you will quickly Concordy, we .should ·be able to To the Editors: become addicted to dramamine!. expect that any article appearing I wish to address this letter to ~ Hope 1o see you sometime in our newspaper would fo~Jow Xaviera; and to her fellow Coeds soon. the dictates of·good journalism: who share her beliefs and i.e. the factual accounts of events · opbiions, · · Sincerely, -An excep.tio.n to · your accusations and substantiation of· sources. ln reflectin8 back to my two The article by Cheryl Parker, previous years at Union, I have \Campus .Police Act,\ fails, at beeil more disappointed with the least with respect to the Davidson women at this school than .I ever In suppo•t of u.e. trespassing incident, to nresent dreamed was possible. To put it ,• the facts. · simply ~ \you girls just don't To the Editors: Ms. Parker writes that the girls know what's goin~ on.\ Instead of Union College like any other involved, in their fright, failed to having the Social Committee plan institution has many problems call security. First of all, we girls a- ._ mixer with Hamilton or and p1any weaknesses. lt is weren't exactly frightened· of Williams; you should think more unfortunate . that these problems someone looking for a buy, about spending a weekend at such are all we ever read about. I especially since there were two · schools as Syracuse, Boston U ., would like t() mention some of guys and three girls sitting· Post, or Hofstra, where terms the positive aspects of Union life. around. Secondly, we did decide such as \femiliinity \class and A smooth, well coordinated to call Security· as the guy was \good times\ are not as yet orientation program got the class -o.bviously trespassing. · extinct .expressions. The gitls here of '80 off tl) a great start in their Concerning the rtonsense about seem to be basically introverted, Union career. This is a class with our revealing essential 'knowledge puritanic.al, and incapable of g~at p()tential and one that will to a potential rapist, sucn• as enticin'g male attraction. certainly add much to the life of ''where the girls floors are and Although there are several this campus. · why there isn't any guard or exceptions,. the Women (and I use Studertt activities have also buzzer systetll,\ it's just that - that term loosely) seem to be only started out strallg. fhe tax nonsense, One girl did answer interested in obtaining a license to committee has deftly maneuvered that no Steve lived here, as this ,js practice medicine, a license to itself out of last year's financial an all-girls floor {granted, not a practice law, or a marriage ptoblems while providing the thoughtful rep~y. but not as license. many student activities with serious as was reported'). I think that it is pathetic that l adequate fUllds to run their 1f Ms. Parker did have any must drive home on weekends to programs. The Spea'kers Soard sources for her story. they should find a \rear woman. I do not have been cited, especially. since w.hlh to defend in this editorial the the sources weren't first hand. entire ma·te population of STUDENTS AND POLITICS FROM THE PRESIDENT'S D.ESK ABOUT STUDENTS ANI) POLITICS President . Thomas N. Bonner Next Tuesday, perhaps half of the eligible voters of the Ullited States will elect a President of the United States. No more important electoral position exists in the world, yet Americans under 21 will vote in even smaller numbers than their elders. For all the social consciousness and political activism of yesterday's students, their successors today are apathetic about the most .significant political process in human history. · No argument will detract from the moral and civic 'responsibility of the indi:vidual to participate in palitics. To say that the current candidates present no choice or that the outcome will make no difference is patently false. Our practices ~,>f self ... government and democratic involvement rest on a faith in the citizen•s capacity to make judgments and to behave responsibly, even w'hen choices are limited. Democratic idealism, of course, is somewhat out of fashion today. Few in 1976 would agree with Woodrow Wilson that to be called an idealist is to know that you are an American. Instead, the term \idealist\ has become for some synonymous with impracticality and a dreamy utopianism. Gone is the time when your grandparents and mine could say to the nations of the world, .. Give me your tired, your poor, your huddled masses yearning to breathe free:• Today, I fear, many regard this as embarrassing sentimentality. And who among us still agrees with the philosopher Santayana that being an American is ' a moral condition'! . Yet, in this 200th year of the Republic, I believe that young people in particular must bear witness to their ideals and the kind of America they want to see. What do you want to see? What are you willing to work for'? What are your ideals? What will you do to make the future better than the past? . 1 would ask you to take part in our system and riot to lose faith in our people. \Up from the common soil, up from the great heart of the people,\ said Woodrow Wilson, \rise streams of hope and determination that are bound to renew the face of the earth in glory ... this great American people is at bottom just; virtuous, and hopefuL and the need of the hour is just that radicalism that will clear a. wa¥- for the realization of the aspirations of a sturdy people.\ Idealistic? Yes. Naive? Probably. But does it stir any response at all in you? What do you. believe? Will you take part in our political life? Will you vote on Tuesday? I sincerely hope so - and that it will mark only the beginning of full participation in our common political life. Editors-in-chief .................................................................. bowie lax mike rotondi News editors ...................................................................... matt brief ·Contributing.editor .................. , ..................................... glenn wolfson Features editor ..... : .............................................. , ..... Cindy sheppard Culture editor .......................................... marshall wisoff,. joe millet Sports editors .......................................................... ,charlie flanagan allyne price Copy editor .... ~ ........................................ : .................... susan linkelstein Business mauagers ......................................................... sheryl farber h;uris halpert Classifieds editor............................... martha rubenstein .todd miller Subscriptions editor ...... , .............................................. harris hal pert Layout editor,! ........................ joe cappucio, nancy murphy Photography editor ............. , ............... ~ ......................... rich gl!ardian Photo STaff.......................... ,julie seeger, mike k.olesa cary feverman steve grill, al tan.nenbaum, mitch mindlin jon flescher, fred abbott, joe millen, tony romanazzi Art editor ........................................ , .................... : ......... .lester weiss Poetry editor........................................ delanne : stage·man Staff this issue ............................................. joe ades, lydia fogelman. brad kessler, marjorie kohn, fran Iorber. marla lux, karen spar, audrey steiQ, su~ ekstrom, barbara stern. eileen thomas nancy feldman, amy perlin, ann markowitz, lisa baron Calendar ... ,............... ...... ... .. ....................................... rich berniker CONCORDIENSIS is published .e11ery Wednesday by the student body of Union College, Old Gym Hall, Schenectady, New York.; to which Postal Forms 3579 are directed. Publications Office: The Jewish World Publications, 416 Smith ~t., Schenectady, N.Y. U30S (370·5483>· Entered in ihe Sehen~etady Post Office 11s Second Class Malter. Subscription Rate 35 cents per copy, $10. a year deli\'ered anywhere in the United States. STATEMENT OF OWNERSHIP, MANAGEMENT AND CIRCULATION OF CONCORDIF.NSJS, as required by the Lniled States Post Office Department, as a regulation with Second flass Mailing Pri¥ileges, as per form 3526. This newspaper is publisht.'d weekly excepting school ¥acation and exam periods :by Union College, Schenectady, :-./ .Y. Ownership is vested in the l'nion College Office of Student Atthitjes. There are no other owners. General Business Office of the new~paper is Carnegie Hall, lfnion College. Editors-in-chief are llm•ie l.ax and Mike Rotondi, Managing Editor .is Harris Halpert. Actual number of wpb printed nrare't to filing date is 2600, which divides a~ 2000 paid circulation lbJ ~ludenl actiVity fee paylilenfl, ISO paid mail •ub~cribcr\. :110 copir' di,trihuted Jrer ·and as samples, for a total distril)ulion of 25!10. !'0 wpif\ arr rc,cn <'d rur office use, making a total of 2600. Printer for this n~w,paper is lhr .lewish World, 416 Smith Sc., Schenectady I BO!I, Tel. .170·548J.

CONCORDIENSIS, Wednesday, Oct. 27, 1976 Page 11 Satire: Report on Student I~ if e Due to the recent outcry about the \quality\ of the men on campus, an ad hoc committee consisting of select members of the Admissions, Student Life, Public Relations and Campus Beautification Committees met with certain members of the Comp Ed Board in secret session this past week. They issued a highly sensitive, top secret report which was passed on to this reporter by a source who, understandably, must remain anoaymous. 1n the interest of open debate and freedom of the press, the report is printed below. It has come to the attention of this committee that there has been considerable heated debate about the physical desirability of UAion students. It would appear that a large sector of the campus community believes that Union men and women are second to all. As it is the avowed aim of this administration to improve the reputation of Union College to the point where it is second to none, we have performed extensive research into the matter. We have read the entire stock of the Continental Book Store, gone on fact-finding missions to Lorenzo's and the Bamboo Club, investigated the Colony Art and State theaters, and held hearings on the Harvard University experiment and the Fourth Floor West project of 1975. After such an intensive and exhaiJstive investigation, we are now prepared to make our report. We recommend a change in the admissions policy. Hereafter, all applicants will be compelled to have a personal interview with a member of the admissions staff of the opposite trembling coffee cup. Since the ' class of 1980 has already paid for bre2.kfast this term and therefore expects adequate service, it is a disgrace not to provide coffee at breakfast. Coffee IS breakfast to a great numbt:r of people, and SAGA cannot allow this mistake to occur again. Sincerely yours, Laurie Merrill Class of 1980 faets questioned To the Editors: We feel that as students of Union College and readers of Concordy, we should be able to expect that any article appearing in our newspaper would follow the dictates of good journalism: i.e. the factual accounts of events and substantiation of sources. The article by Cheryl Parker, \Campus Police Act,\ fails, at least with respect to the Davidson trespassing incident, to present the facts. Ms. Parker writes that the girls involved, in their fright, failed to call security. First of all, we girls weren't exactly frightened of someone looking for a buy, especially since there were two guys and three girls sitting· around. Secondly, we did decide to call Security as the guy was obviously trespassing. Concerning the nonsense about our revealing essential knowledge to a potential rapist, such as \where the girls tloors are and why there isn't any guard or buzzer system,\ it's just that nonsense. One girl did answer that no Steve lived here, as this is an all-girls floor (granted, not a thoughtful reply, but not as serious as was reported). If Ms. Parker did have any sources for her story, they should have been cited, especially since the sources weren't first hand. by Dan Rosenbaum sex. An intensive physical examiHation wiH be required at the interview. The results of the examination will be weighed heavier than any other criteria. As such a policy can be quite wearing, an expanded and highly professional admissions staff will be needed. We suggest investigating the Fantasia Health Spa for truly professional interviewers. We are aware, however, that the aim of geographical diversity may conflict with the goal of personal interviews. In such cases, recommendations, similar to the ones filed by applicant's teachers, should be required. In view of the gravity of these peer evaluations, we suggest a minimum of five (5) such letters, each notarized. This should iNsure true talent and experience. The student aid structure will also have to be changed slightly. Instead of basing aid on need, academic excellence, or even athletic achievement, student aid should be based · solely on the personal interview or letters. It should be noted that since there is no NCAA or ECAC of desirability, there is no such thing as a recruiting violation. The committee is aware, however, that raw talent must be educated. To that end, .then, instead of re-instituting an English requirement, as has been discussed, we recommend a requirement of FE 28 (Self, Sex, and Dissent) and CEd 119 (Sex and Society). The latter course will have a 4-hour weekly lab session. Lab partners will be, of course, of the opposite sex. To avoid problems, partners will be selected at random. As there is currently 110 place where such a lab can be held, we suggest the I Readers might have incorrectly thought that they were reading a primary acount. Hopefully, in the future, the writers of Concordy will concern themselves more with the factual, not the sensational, aspects of the story. installation of soft music aad colored lights into the south side of Fox House; the former DU house. Lab grades wiH be given by each partner. Criteria will be worked out by each professor, as wiH be the assigNing of lab manuals. HoMsing is a very sticky problem. The committee has been unable to reach a consensus about the ideal living conditions. Some advocate co-ed living; some, co-ed floors; some, segregated dorms. ·1 hose who favor the first claim say that it is the role of the school to provide the optimum atmosphere for the happiness of the students. The proponents of the last agree- they claim the students shouldn't be thrown into a situation they do not want. It is, therefore, recommended by the committee that the Housing Committee look into the problem and report back to us. None of the above recommendations can, in any way, shape, or form, be construed to harm Union's academic standing. If anything it will help develop a happy, well-adjusted student body. Let those ingrates wish they were at Williams now! Therefore, in the interests of Union College, the committee makes the above recommendations on the 23rd day of October, 1976 A.D. NOTE: It should be noted that this is the only copy of the report, due to the highly confidential nature of it. Therefore, special care should be taken to preserve the secrecy of this paper. lf it appears in Concordy with our names, we're sunk for sure. school, for many of them should be put out to pasture. But, speaking for myself and for several of my friends, I can honestly say that there are some interesting, exciting, and sensuous young men on this campus. you must not be looking in the right The Suite Involnd places. to xaviera As for you, Xaviera, I hope that we can get together sometime before you complete your There were various \letters\ ''sentence\ at this institution, and and \personals\ in response to possibly make your last days Xaviera which were before parole a bit more inappropriate to print because of m~morable. As fo~ t~~re \n?t obscene innuendos. bemg enough motiOn, I w11l To the Editors: I wish to address this letter to Xaviera, and to her fellow Coeds who share her beliefs and opinions. forewarn you that after knowing me a short while, you will quickly become addicted to dramamine! - Hope to see you sometime soon. Sincerely, -An exception to your accusations In reflecting back to my two previous years at Union, I have been more disappointed with the women at this school than I ever In support of u.e. dreamed was possible. To put it simply - \you girls just don't To The Editors: know what's going on.\ Instead of Union College like any other having the Social Committee plan institution has many problems a mixer with Hamilton or and many weaknesses. It is Williams, you should think more unfortunate that these problems about spending a weekend at such are all we ever read about. I schools as Syracuse, Boston U., would like to mention some of Post, or Hofstra, where terms the positive aspects of Union life. such as \femininity \class and A smooth, well coordinated \good times\ are not as yet orientation program got the class extinct expressions. The girls here of '80 off to a great start in their seem to be basically introverted, Union career. This is a class with puritanical, and incapable of great potential and one that will enticing male attraction. certainly add much to the life of Although there are several this campus. exceptions, the women (and I use Student activities i1ave also that term loosely) seem to be only started out strong. fhe tax interested in obtaining a license to committee has deftly ma1:euvered practice medicine, a license to itself out of last year's financial practice law, or a marriage problems while providing the license. many student activities with I think that it is pathetic that I adequate ftrnds to run their must drive home on weekends to find a \real\ woman. I do not programs. The Speakers Board wish to defend in this editorial the entire male population of thi_s Continued 011 P·lg~· 1 ' STUDENTS AND POLITJ:CS FR0 1 M THE PRESIDENT'S DESK ABOUT STl.H:»ENTS AND POLITICS Presidemt Ttaomas N. Bonner Next Tuesday, perhaps ha.lf of the eligible voters of the United States wiH elect a President dthe United States. No more important electoral position exists irt the world, yet Americans under 21 will vote in even smaHer num IJers than their elders. For all the social consciousness and political activism of yesterday's students, their successors today are apathetic about the most significant political process in human history. No argument will detract from the moral ai'ld civic responsibility of the individual to participate in politics. To say that the current candidates present no choice or that the outcome will make no difference is patently false. Our practices of self-government and democratic involvement rest on a faith in the citizen's capacity to make judgments and to behave responsibly, even when choices a1e limited. Democratic idealism, of course, is somewhat out of fashion today. Few in 1976 would agree with Woodrow Wilson that to be called an idealist is to know that :you are an American. Instead, the term \idealist\ has become for some synonymous with impracticality and a dreamy utopianism. Gone is the time when your grandparents and mine could say to the nations of the world, \Give me your tired, your poor, your huddled masses yearning to breathe free.\ Today, I fear, many regard this as embarrassing sentimentality. And who among us still agrees with the philosopher Santayana that being an American is a moral condition? Yet, in this 200th year of tile Republic, I believe that young people in particular must bear witness to their ideals and the kind of America they want to see. What do you want to see'! What are you willing to work for'? What are yt>ur ideals? What will you do to make the future better than the past'! I would ask you to take part in our system and not to lose faith in our people. \Up from the comruon soil, up from the great heart of the people,\ said Woodrow \Vilson, \rise streams of hope and determination that are bound to renew the face of the earth in glory ... this great American people is at bottom just, virtuous, and hopeful... and the need of the hour is just that radicalism that will clear a way for the realization of the aspirations of a sturdy people.\ Idealistic? Yes. Naive? Probably. But does it stir any response at all in you? What do you believe? Will you take part in our political life'! Will you vote on Tuesday? I sincerely hope so - and that it will mark only the beginning of full participation in our common political life. {~·· ·;oil .. :.<• .- ~ t' Editors-in-chief ....................... _ ........................................... howie lax mike rotondi News editors ..................... _ ................................................ matt brief Contributing editor .............. _ ......................................... glenn wolf son Features editor .......................................................... cindy sheppard Culture editor .................... -..................... marshall wisoff, ioe millet Sports editors ........................................................... charlie t1anagan allyne price CoPV editor ................................... ., ........................... susan finkelstdn Business managers ......................................................... sheryl farber harris halpert Classifieds editor ............................... martha rubenstein .todd miller Subscriptions editor ................ - .................................... harris halpert Layout editor,' ........................ joe cappucio, nancy murphy Photography editor ............ _ ......................................... rich guardian Photo STaff .......................... ,julie seeger, mike kolesa cary !everman steve grill, al tannenbaum, mitch mindlin jon t1esclt.:r, fred abbott, joe millett, tony romanazzi Art editor ....................................................................... lester weiss Poetry editor........................................ delanne 'stage man Staff this issue.. ................ ... . .............. .joe ades. lydia fogelman, brad kessler, marjorie kohn. Iran Iorber. rnarla lux, karen ~par, audrey stein, su~ ekstrom, barbara ~tern. eileen thoma~ nancy feldman, amy pert in. ann markowitz, lisa baron Calendar............................ .. ...................................... rich bern1ker CONCORDIENSIS is puO.Iislled every Wednesday by the student body of Union <\ollege Old Gym Hall, Schenectady, New York.; to which P4lstal Forms 3579 are directed. Publications Orflce: The .JeW'ish World Publications, 416 Smith ~t., Schenectady, N.Y. IZJ05 (370-5483). Entered in the Schenectady Post Office as Second Class Matter. Subscription Rate 35 cents per copy, SilL a year delivered anywhere in the United States. STATEMENT OF OWN i~RSHIP, MA:'<AGt:\1E:-1 I' A:-.;1.) CIRCULATION OF CONCORDlENSIS, as required b) the lnited States Post Office Department, as a regulation with Second Class \tailing Prhileges, as per form 3526. T~is newspaper is published weeki)' cuepting school vacation and exam pcrivds b) l.nion < · ollege, Schene.-tad). :'>.. \. Ownership is •ested in the l'lllion ( ollege Office of Student .\cti•itic,, fherc are no other owners. General Ru;iness Office uf the ncw,pnper i' Carnegie llall, L'nion College. Editors-in-chief are Howie Lax and '·like Rotondi, Managing Editor is Harris llalp~rt. Actual number of r.opie' printed ncarc't to filing dale is 2600, which di,.ide' a> 2000 paid circulation tb) 'tudt•nt activity fee payment}, 180 paid rnuil \Ub,aiber,, .171) r.opie' di,tributed free and as samples, for a total cli;tribution of 2~50. ~U topic' art• ri.''<'r\'d fur office use, making a total of 26GCl. Printer for thi' ne\'paper is l'he Jeui;h World, 416 Smith St., Schenectod) I 2.105, I el. .170·548.l.

).'.'' .\\ \ l ,. : .... \, P\- \ . . 'L . \< ~ T \'.' ~ ~~ t . 1i \1 {t ( ii K.'/ .... ' .~ ..- ...... CONCORDIENSIS, Wednesday-, Oct. 21, 1976 ~ ··~ ·COndensed-· Fir,st Draft of Presented below is an abridged version of the preliminary draft authored by the Athletic Task Force. The report deals with the NESCAC and Division 1 questions only, and\does not contain any recommendations at the present time. We are sure that those who read this report will agree that the rask Force have approached their job with a deep sense of responsibility and have performed admirably. The Task Force have presented an ~;~nbiased factual account of the pros and cons for both of the important questions examined. For thr:<r we applaud their work. CONCORDIENSIS has had only one motivation for printing this report,· to educate the community. Hopefully this will dispel many of the rumors and factual misrepresentations which have permeated the campus. during the past yeqr. We recognize the fact that the entire athlet,ic issue has, at times, been so emotional that rational discussion of the topic has been nearly impossible. We do not want .to add fuel to this fire. Just the converse is true. CONCORDIENSJS sincerely hopes that this will promote constructive and rational discussion abou.t this topic. Finally, and most importantly of all, we do not ·intend to undermine the workings of the Athletic Task Force. They }lave worked long and diligently at their difficult task. To have their sentiments second guessed before the fact would perform a grave injustice to both the Task Force and the entire campus. The abridged text below has not been altered in content, it has simply been shortened. Words and phrases have not be¢n taken out of context and have not been taken out of order. They appear here in .the same order that they appeared in the unabridged draft. Lastly, CONCORDIENSIS has attempted to present an objective and unbiased abridged version. One final word:· CONCORD/ENSIS has not taken a .-position regarding the material contained within the repon. opportunitieS' for all teams. We further state that equipntent and s~pplies of comparable qu.ality and quantity should be made available to aU teams. at .Union. : The issue of \competitiveness of course, raises tile question \Competitive with whom?' and it· is this question wlli~;ll lie$ at the heart of any development · p.rogram. To a large .ex:tent, the · same question present~ itseff in aU areas of the · College's activity.Clearly, therefore, in athletics, as in .t>ther areas of c1.unpu$ activity, \excellence\ and \competitiveness•; can and should be measured in. relation to a level of competion which is determined on the basis of the overall size, character and pUrpose of the institution. Viewed in this light, how should Union College achieve excellence in athletics? One of the principal questions facing the Task Force is to- determine the desirable level of competition for ,Union's inter-collegiate ptogram. What is the appropriate level· of competition for our team!!? Does the pursuit of excellence irt athletics involve raiSing the level of any, or aU, of our athletic teams to Division l, or U, stafus, any more than Union's determination to build academic excellence requires us to raise any of our academic departments to the .size and quality of. say, Yale's or Princeton's? - Union's Recent Athletic Past the aegis of traditional rivalrie& and shared academic identities as elite private liberal arts colleges· of high quality, the o•rigina.l Pentagonal schools (no longer including Dartmouth, which had by the 1960's elected to participate· wt~olly in the .Ivy L¢ague) added Bates, Colby, Middlebury, Trinity,. and I\tfts fr.om New England. Hamilton, and then Union, (as the two schools outside New Eqgland}di(l not be~()me closely invoived in the formulation of NESCAC until the discussions of the league's overa:ll structure wete well underway. What NESCAC NESCAC. Why did Union join NESC;te? Tho'ugb many factors were undoubtedly h:npol'tant, the principal ex.planation. · for Union'$· mem.bersbip in NESCA.C grew . out . of. · the expet;ted. advantages . Qf ,jd~ntifying, and. being identified with~ some of the niost.prestigiol,ls private sm~ll colleses in the East. In the words ~;>Harne~ Mitchener, the NESCAC meiJlbers \sounqed like the Who's Who of eastern colleges~\ · · · The obvious conclusion to be drawq from . this is tllat Union I affiliat~d with N:ESCAC as much fer •cad~mic (or, at least non- Represents? athle(ic) reasons as to advance WJ:tat were the stated purposes directly its l!ihMic objectives. The of NESCAC? Basically, it was supposed publici ·relations and from its inception a conference pluhlicity value's accruing to 'tl_te c e n t r a H y cGncerned with Cqllege were through; rather than promoting policies and achieving by athletics. - 'maximum p.artid.pation in But we underscore that a_thletics among all students in its N'ESCAC is not now, and never member schools. Though fully intended to ·be, an athletic league, recognizing the many values in . in the traditional ~ense, designed regular athletic competition specifically and narrowly to among college.s that have advance tl:!e athJetic- ebjeciives · essentially the ·same ideals and and fortunes of its member educational objectives, another schools. To do so would be premature. We ask the campus community to remember that this is a draft, not a final report. Please read and be educated, Do not over-react, do not jump to conclusions. Be rational. aspect of NESCAC was also quite Indeed, most NESCAC schools dearly one of restraint. Thus the have established. reputations· and NESCAC articles of agreement are recognized as being among also CQntain a number of the. nation's leading liberal arts restrictions whose pUrpose is to colleges~ Secure in their individual sa f e g u a r d a g a i n s t a n accomplishments, they have little overemphasis (or, some would \need and less &~sire, to strengthen say, '.'pro fess.i on a lis m\) their acad~mic identities through on athletics by avoiding abuses in athletic successes, esp~cially for recruiting, financial aid, or the public at large. In the 1950;s and 1960;s, Union, lowering for for athletic r.easons • .Indeed, NESCAC's philosophic it will be relilembered, was. a ·established academic-standards. insistence on the absence of A major premise of this sectioil of the report is that Union College must decide upon the rightful place of intercollegiate athletics within the College's overall planning for the 1980's. An essential first step is to set forth and analyze the principle choices now available to Union. From our discussions with those in the Union Community, including students, faculty, and administrators, and alumni, it is clear that at least two distinct alternatives are emerging. Some at Union see an urgent need for the College to devote considerably more energy, and more resources to athletics, believing that doing so will allow Union to receive, in return, truly substantial benefits in public relations, visibility,' and fund raising. Athletics, it is argued, can aid and strengthen the College's primary educational purposes. But others are seriously concerned that the College is already devoting too much attention, and too large a share of its necessarily limited resources, to athletics (and especially to a few men's intercollegiate teams). Though acknowledging that enhanced public recognition via athletics is possible, they question whether it is particularly desirable, especially given some of the implicit and explicit costs that inevitably are being and will be incurred. Some of the concern over athletic policy is, we believe, symptomatic of more thorough- going debates about direction purposes, and aims .of Union College i~self in the coming decade. Central to the debate over the proper role of athletics, too, is Achilles Rink and ice hockey. With the opening. of Achilles Rink last fall, and with the return of intercollegiate ice hockey (though admittedly in a much different form) to Union after some three decades, the College generated both revenues and community interest far beyond any college athletic activity in the pastThe question is, to what extef!t should athletics at Union cultivate support from the Capital District? For that matter, is major sports entertainlnent a proper . member of ICAC. This was an In the Words of former Union. ·league standings or league function of Union? Indeed, one of -,·n\\ormal, Io·. osely·. ·str··~tured· p 'd t H ld M. · t' \W .. h t h · · d • d · · ,, u res1 · en aro ar m, · . a c- · ampioi1s, an .· tts .. estre to lunit the major issues which the athletic conference whose ·- we aU had in mind was, and is, excessive preoccupation with College fa~es . is to determine members included (in addition to the pressures that build !lP ~ post-season teatn Jgurnament whether thts mterest, and the Union) Clarkson, St. Lawrence, __ among alumni, students, comp~titi(}n Feflects their steps needed to maintain and even -· RPI, Alfred, arid Hobart. ·All to expl;lnd it, would carry the ICAC member schools were College in a desirable direction. · located in upstate New York. Development of Union's The athletic programs of both Intercollegiate Union and ICAC, taken as a Athletic Program whole, could best be characteriL:ed Union College should and does by such adjec~ives as competitive, strive for excellence in all areas representative, and fully and athle\tics can be no exception: a~e9~ate among, smaJl college, The College will compete in 13 DlvtstQn Ill athletic progr~ms. men's and 7 women's varsity I~ the 1968-l969•acad~tc year sports in 1976-77, thereby Umon College formally Withdrew. providing many opportunities ~rom the ICAC to beco~e. an for students to participate in In de P e U .de !1 t, ret at n1 n g intercollegiate athletics. While it membership m both the NCAA is possible that some additions and ECAC. and( or deletions from that Several reasons can be cited for program will become desirable the College's withdrawal from over the next several years (in ICAC, including the loqg travel response to student inter~st, new distances required, the lack of facilities or budget pressures)~ the Pub i i citY ' (or p u bl i c question of program development \consciousness\ of the conference, seems to lie essentially in the area or of its activities), the steady of quality, rather than quantity or alumni and athletic department scope. The Task Force thinks that d.isa.p.prov.al o( continued it is important to maintain quality membership, and the limited programs in sports such as nature. of the geographic focus of basketball, soccer and ice hockey competition. Perhaps cent_ral to where they now exist, and we the College's <tecision, however, think that it is important to was a widely shared perception provide ways in which other among trustees, administrators, sports could continue to be faculty, coaches, and many strengthened. To do this,. the alumni that lCAC membership College should: simply was not benefitting Union I. Improve the quality of the very significantly. coaching staff where neeessary, The Decision and in all cases strive t.o make to Affiliate . full-time, professional instruction with NESCAC and coaching available for all varsity teams. 2. Organize, encourage and support recruiting efforts by Admissions, the Athletic Department, alumni and friends to bring talented student-athletes to the campus, and to encourage talented student-athletes now attending ·Union to engage in varsity sports. 3. Improve and perhaps increase existing facilities and support services to the extent that this is both necessary and financially feasible. Though we later make s.pecific recommendations on the· College's athletic facilities, we state here· that the use of facilities should be assigned in such a manner as to optimize the training The influence of.geo..graphy, the anticipated benefits from being publicly associated with the other member schools, and the undesirability of independent status can be seen as major factors in the College~s decision to seek membership in NESCAC, an ath:Jetic conference whose members were located largely ill New England rather than New Yorlc. That conference. which had evolved from an earlier Pentagonal group cc>nsisting of Amherst. Bowdoin, Dartmouth; Wesleyan,. and Wiliiams, was by 1970 completing plans to begin a. formal, expanded athletic association based largely <m the informal pinciples that had governed the Pentagonal. Under players, and coaches ~for championship teams if conferences are .not cautios, and what the cons.equences of pressure . have been in the past produced even in the little three: covert athletic scholarships, special deals on admissions, invasion of academic time, pressure on players, and the measurement of a coach primarily interms of the number of winning te!Ulls he could .produce.\ (Letter .of then- Pt:esident Harold C. Martin to the Schenectady Alumni Club of Union College, February 24, 1972.) From an examination of the C oHege 's records and correspondence on NESCAC, it is clear that the NESCAC schools have had a clear philosophy about athletics. . .Union has realized precisely wliat it expected when the College initially sought membership in deliberate view that such policies are well suited to preventing an undesirable overemphasis on athletics at the expense of the . predominately acad,emic concentration of both student~ athletes and the campus as a whole. · Because the N ESC AC philosophy places several well;. known restrictions on the athletic staffs of its schools, some see it as . placing undesirable limits on athletic departments, and even on ;.thletics .. itself. That is a value judgment that is central to one of the principal reasons for the Task Force's-existence. It is important to undentand that, from the outset, Union differed from most other NESCAC schools in several important respects. Those differences are rel~vant in any case, but their importance is further Urtderscored as the Task For<:e ·attempts to identify the kind of college Union is toda~ ..,..:- as well a about ·, purposes likely t< ahead. l our maj< the need policies 1 a«tvance purposes 1980's. In ar fundalile has with four poi1 mentione l. Un college \'1 of gradu 2. Uni• inetropol smQII, r1 This affo media C(] 3. Ul establish I public prospecti .potential The .overv comments Union cor College w, better s recognitio1 4. Unio1 strong, body of al with the a1 Athletic I encourage enroll at 1 student-at! country, ~ the North• In recen achieve me have risen lhe reaJ as a varsi the recruit lreshman games an Division I first seaso the possil seeking, ir entirely excellence. ice hucke different? The difl ~ports and basically t I. As a I ice hockey divisional Ill .(in generally p 2. For a was possib players for guarantee 1 the varsity 3. Unio

CONCORDJENSIS, Wednesday, Oct~ 27,_19!_Q Page 13 Athletic T_-sk Force· Report as well ;,ts to attempt to speculate Harkness, one of the premier about the kin9 of identity. coaches in the country, with the purposes, a:nd direction, Union is abHity both to attract .talent by likely to ha:ve in the decade virtue Qf his reputation and ·to abead. Indeed, central to one of devt:lop it by virtue of his own our major underlying concerns is ability· and expereince. the need to put forward athletie-- Why should the College policies that serve, reinforce, and ·seriously consider startmg a a(Jvance the academic goals and Division I hockey program? Why purposes Union will have for the should it consider making ho.ckey l98(}'s. an excepti0n? Clearly, in some In analyzing some of the ways, hockey .already is an fundamental differences Union exception and has been so since has with mo'st NESCAC schools, its inception at U nipn. four points were most frequently This is. because the hockey mentioned: program has ~ been treated 1. Union is a comprehensive differently, in terms ' of its coll~ge with an increasing number management and budget, from its of graduate programs. . inception last year. All · other 2. Union is lo4lated in an urban, \ spoFts 'at Union are· supported by metropolitan environment, not in allocating moeny from the sm1dl, rural towns or villages. Co'llege); operating budget to the This affords Union .a potential for Department of Athletics: Hockey media coverage. alone is required to he self- 3. Union iacks a firinly s·upporting. established, sharply defined - Wb)' is hockey treated publi£ identity, whether by differently? A large part of the prospectlve students, alumni, or explanation centers around the .potential friends of the college. The .overwhelming thrust of these comments VIVIdly supported the Union community's view that the College was, collectively, a much better school than public recognition had, to date, allowed. 4. Union does not now have a strong, well-organized, active body Of alumni that works closely with the admissions office and the Athletic Department to interest, encourage and, ultimately, to enroll at Union large numbers of student-athletes throughout the country, and especially froiD in the Northeast. Ice Hockey at Union In recent years Union's athletic achievements and aspirations have risen significantly. The reappearance of 1ce hockey as a varsity sport at Union, and the recr.uiting, last year, of an all- lreshman team which won 20 games and advanced into the Division I I ECAC playoffs in its first season of play. have raised the possibility of the College's seeking, in this sport at least; an entirely different levJ;I of excellence. The question is, why is ice hockey at least potentially different? The differences between other ~ports and lhal .uf ice hockey are basically three: I; As a le!-i~ widely played sport icc hockey has a greater degree of divisional mobility, with Division I II (in hockey) offering a generally poor level of compelion. 2. For a wholly new program it Was possib·Ie to attract promi\sing players for the fi.rst year with the guarantee that they would play on the varsity as freshmen, and 3. Union has, in Coach Ned terms and conditions the College itself imposed on the Rink's operation. It will be remembered that, in 1974, the magnificent gift of c.onstructJon money by Reverend Achilles did not specifically include provisions for endowment or maintenance costs. When the gift was accepted, some questioned whether it was prudent, in these days of tight budgets, to accept a major building without clear provisions for endowing its maintenance and covering its operating costs. In view of the expressed campus sensitivity concerning the Rink's financial operations, the College adopted the policy, beginning in 1915-16, of requiring that the Rink cover all operating costs with revenues. In practice, this meant that l~ockey ticket revenues (in addition lo public skating and ice rentals) became a.n important factor in maintaining the , financial ~tahilitv of hhiHes Rink's <lpc.rat;on\. This, in. turn, means that hockey, and the RinJ, operations generaliy, must he able to generate considerable levels of local support. Should Union ·moun-t a Division I hockey· program'! Before attempting to answer that question, the rask Force has attempted to make a realistic .appraisal of the advantages, both :.hort term and long term, that Union can expect to accrue from a Division I hockey program. fhere is general agreement that Union suffers from inadequate recognition f·or the quality M the institution. The athletic program, and hockey in particular, have recently stimulated considerable publicity for the College, both on the local and nationwide level. It is certainly possible ... that such recognition might help Union to broaden the base from which it draws its students, The hockey program has also. generated renewed interest among the alumni, espet;:iaHy locally, and helped develop a new sense of alumni pride in the school. Achilles Rink and, specifically, hockey - have built major bridges to the local cotnmuni~y. What does this identification mean, in terms of direct, tangible benefits to Union? The principal benefits are increased fund-raising and local good will, both of which . are highly important to the College. We especially note and underscore the opportunity presented for the College to cultivate a variety of -constituencies, including ,potential major donors, legislators, and others, to advance other academic or non~athletic interests of the College as well as its athletic needs through the mechanism of big-time hockey. Letters from alumni and others interested in the College, though largely limited to those living in the . Capital District, indicate a very strong sentiment for mounting a Division I hockey program. This support has been so clearly expressed, in fact, that the College may anticipate a modest back-lash if it elects not to petition foF Division I hockey alignment. Any such backlash will be limited in intensity and time, of course, so long as it is clear to the alumni that the College, and its athletic department, have . accpeted the College's ·decision, both publicly and privately. Another argument for stepping uw to Division I is an extra- polation of Union's ·commitment to excellence in academics. There is little question that Union now has the coach and the athletes to play Division I competltion within the next two or three years. To some, it is inconsistent to deny student-athletes the chance to extend themselves athletically while demanding that they extend themselves intellectually. It has also been pointed out that Union would be athletically associated with the academically prestigious Ivy League~ schools (to some extent, at least} i~ it played a Division I schedule. · Although the arguments for aligning in Division I in hockey Cuture, to junior varsity hockey) , are substantial, especially for the because . increased ice time for short tertn, the Task Force has intercollegiate h9ckey will very identified a number of arguments likely reduce ice time for the in favor of Union's continuing to general student body. In short, a compete in Oivision H. Division l hockey team would put The support of the local .us into a differnt league, both community is a phenomenon literally and figuratively. ·heavily dependent upon the But there are other \costs\ current.(and ant~cipated) win-loss besides direct dolh1r ones. record of the team. Another problem with Division I If Union were to align its .status is the disarray it would hockey team in Division I, produce in the remainder of the maintaining a winning record - athletic program. At Union, as in let alone being . championship all other schools, not all sports contenders would be receive the same emphasis and exceptionally difficult on a year- support, and this is not likely to in, year-out basis. This is change. But the program p.articulafly critical because .of the commi~ments that would follow if importance of hockey ticket the one sport was singled out for 'revenues in the current financial Division I status while leaving the structure of Achilles Rink. other 19 Division Ill would create The added costs of mounting a · major discrepancies which would Division I hockey program will be quickly and inevitably produce substantial. Though some costs serious problems of morale ate difficult to anticipate and to among participants, coaches and fully assign, we nonetheless followers in other sports. There project thai a Division I hockey was widespread concern last yl!ar program would require, at a that hockey has dramatically minimum, several additional full- disturbed : the balance in the time _positions, including, a) a intercollegiate program. The second full~time coach (most support consistent with mounting Division I programs currently a Division I program would employ two full-time coaches who exacerbate these .discrepancies assume few, if any, other athletic Because Union is a relatively respo.nsibilities during .the small, open community, we think remainder of the year); b) a full- ' it highly improbable that such time rink manager (because of the discrepancies would go unnoticed increased demands on the current or unknown throughout the director, including more and campus. The result for the overall longer travel, an extended athletic program is likely to be practice and playing season, and harmful. greatly increased recruiting and The Task Force states as speaking activities); c) a full-time axiomatic that Division I status trainer; d) a full-time sports confers no benefit wh~tever.u?l.ess information director. In addition a successful team agamst DIVls~on to these direct personnel \A , I competition can be produced budget costs, budget support for and mai':ltained .. That can only be I;>ivision 1 programs is done 1f Unwn competes customarily at much higher levels successfully for the most talented than Union has traditionally athletes and does so, of course, known. against institutions which either We strongly speculate that \B.. offer a~hletic scholarship.s and budget costs for Division 1-type re.Iated mduc7ments or. whtch, by programs, including monies for VIrtue of the1r. reput~ttons alon~, extended travel meals and confer more distmcuon on thetr lodging, for equipment, f~r out- students than do~s .union. In of-school practices, for better care te.rms . of . Admis~s1on~ and of eqipment and teams, for an Fman~1al Aid, U.n10n ·1s n?w athletic training table, and for committed to a pohcy of grantmg -r-ecruiting would also be no ~t~letic scholarships and of substantially greater than for adm!ttmg no students who do not Division II competition. (Indeed, have at lea~t a reasonable cha~ce it will be remembered that a for academic success. That pohcy · principle rationale underlying ~as on occ~sion been loosely current long-standing College and . tnterpreted_ m .the past. T~e NESCAC recruiting limitations c !r~helmi~!; dnve t~ succeed m is, at heart, an economic one.) I vs1on I Will vastly mcrease the There are also opportunity costs -of devoting more ice time to Continued on Page 14 varsity (and, perhaps in the '\ Ned Harkness: Will the task force affect his future at llnion Co/fege?

l \ 'fjl·~ 1.\ Page14 cr}NcoRDIEN~fS, }ve¥n~;dri'y::o~t::li7,·)9~6' ~~~~--~~~~~~~~~~~~------~ where athletics were emphasi~ed nothing had changed'? Second, . regulations . hi recent years, . and unduly: If ··guidance counselors, _ College officials, especially in the it~s possible that other mem.b~ts; . parents ;Ind' prospective students athletic area, have 'bel!n. ·qriigtly \too. . will s~e .. tl'ie ·ad:vantage,~ ot de share this perception .then it (and pointed.ly)·told Jhat 1f Union ·enhan~~:d ·:public· identifi(:ation coull\i well ~ffect the quality of resigns from NESCAC, it W-ill:- · and j~in ·with '·us ,to strengthen students which apply to Union. clearly Jeopan;lize future league media effor-is.' Working A good case can be made for schedules. Third, if . Union did . from within is a more likely .saying that we h~Jve already resign from NESCAC t'{) develop strategy. ft;>r promoting change . realized substantial benefits from a more active athletic-·· program, than n:signiflg; Again the College. maintaining a, strong Division U the Athletic Department ·would must ·ask .pr~;cisely what it would lentry, and tha~ the increased immediately and vigorously urge gain by leaving NESCAC. benefits of Division l play do not that more resources be committed Union's most likely alternatives outweigh the increased ri11ks and to the athletics budget, including seem to be to return to being an costs. From a purely financial esp~cially monies for increased independent;. or to rejoin ICAC. . p~;>int of view, as well as in terms recruiting and financial.aid. The Neither choice offers _ much of providing appealing sports athletic staff would also take a ftlr improvement, and each has its entertainment,. the college is more active role in recruiting, own disadvantages. Being an better off fielding a stl'ong practices and procedures. As we independent w~mld pose diff.icult .Division n team than a medii>cte have ·seen, one of the strongest scheduling problems, especially team in Division I. Based on last current objections to continued for sports liJ<e football and year's expe·rience, we may be able NESCAC ,affiliation at Uniori basketball, and it would solve few to keep up our season ticket sales involves the recruiting restrictions of the reasons (the absence pf by playing mainly Division 11 imposed on the athletic. staff. If publicity, league standings,.· or schools with an occasional Union. withdrew from NESCAC, championships) Union ,gave'~f()r­ Task Force Report- .Canadian or Division I opponent. there would be great and perhaps leaving NESCAC. Beyond being Hoekey is an exciting sport and overwhelming pressure to change an independent, the most likely the level of competition unong e>ur recruiting pra,ctices course of action would' be for the better Division U scllQols is dramatically. To expect otberwise Union to rejoin lC~C What sufficient, at -Bowdoin, Army, is shnp~y. unrealistic. ~Jut does app_eal qoes this have ·for-\our Colby, Merrimack, and other anyone really i~agine tltat other overall programs? In- response t<> places, to maintain fan interest. NESCAC schools wou·1d continue those- who fault.NESCAt for not Tile college would also forfeit a to schedule Union if ~ur Athletic· publicizi-ng le~gue .standings ,or chance to g() for the national title Department operated under champions, has 'anyone ever seen by remaining in Division 1. But markedly different guidelines, and; ICAC league standings? Or how many times would this be a with a different philosophy, tharr .repOrts of thier champions, and real possibility, especially after theirs'? their accomplishment'! ln fact, in Harkness's departure? Pl.ayoff Perhaps the key question, terms of pu·blicity, what competition does exist at the therefore, is to ask whether Union bnptovement would there really Divisipn II level and seems to be shot.!ld withdraw from NESCAC. be? Academically,. the reputation a more realistic goal over the long Several questions hav~ been ,of ICAC schools is modest when run. raised in this conte~t by members compared to the NESCAC pressures for even looser inter- pretation, and these pressures will be increasingly hard to resist. No coach, however. able and well connected, can serve for long as a sub6titute for mort tangible inducements in 1he recruitment or players. To recruit athletes in the manner in which most athletieally successful institutions now do would require significant changes in the character of this CoUege. Thus, there are not only monetary costs which Union must be prepared to pay if the College chose Division I alignment. If the College similarly elevates the support budget for even some of its other 19 sports, the budgetary impact will be awesome. In fact, we do not think, as a practical matter; that the college can afford to do this for other sports, We simply raise, in passing, the point that if the College attempted to elevate the level of competition in other sports \(basketball perhaps, or football, or soccer), the direct traceable costs and the indirect financial aid reallocations would far outstrip any anticipated revenue gains. Central to Union's dilemma in Divsion 1. too, is Coach Ned ' Harkness. There is little question that the present athletic success of the hockey program is largely the result of his work. Harkness's being at Union is the result of a unique set of circumstances, and it is unrealistic to expect that he could be replaced with anyone having his combined coaching skills, entrepreneurial talent and past track record. His successor will probably have the advantage of inheriting a strong pragram, but maintaining this strength without -Harkness's remarkable recruiting abilities could be extremely difficult. It is hard to believe that the new coach would equal Harkness' success in competing for the \blue-chip\ student athlete with the more prestigious Ivy League schools and with other top-flight schools that maintain attractive, competitive Division I hockey programs. Moreover, many Division I schools offer full athletic scholarships and have lower academic standards for admission than Union presently has. 'Thus. it is conceivable that we would be caught in the middle and be unable to compete successfully with either Ivy or non-Ivy League opponents. Then the College Would be forced to make some tough choices if we wished to maintain a viable Division I program. We could lower academic standards for athletes. Union could also offer athletic scholarships. Both of these steps, however, are· foreign to Union tradition, and either would face considerable resistance in the Union community. Although the College is on record as being against these steps, one wonders whether pressures to regain the momentum of a once successful hockey program could reverse Continued from. Page 13 :this position in .the future. The level of competition at which out athle1es caQ successfully compete will evolve when the divisional decision is made. How important would a Division I program be te the College's academic purposes and reputation? Although a Division I schedule could potentially include contests with the prestigious Ivy League schools, the[e is real question, based on the current New York State Division I independents, of just how often the Harvards, Yales and Princetons would appear on -our schedule. Even so, when Harvard plays Union in hockey there is no. immediate comparison between the two schools other than their relative abilities on the ice. Perhaps if Union played a large percentage of its contests against Ivy League opponents in all sports, the Ivy League-Union relationship might enhance Union's academic reputation. For Union, this type of extensive relationship with the Ivy League in a number of sports would take two decades and many millions of dollars to establish. ln fact, it seems beyond the realm of possibility. It seems more likely that Union's academiC' reputation would be enhanced by contests with NESCAC schools such as .Bowdoin or Colby wHere there is an immediate connection among most observers that the contest is between two small and highly selective· private institutions. We also must report that a number of people have strongly questioned the publicity value of a step-up in division levd, at least as it affects the College's' academic purposes. In the first place, the publicity thus generated. would not necessarily enhance Union's visibility of r~putation as an academic institution. Given the low profile of Union College athletics in the past, some have expressed the concern that such new publicity, added to that already generated by the Cahill . and Harkness appointments, would move Union,· rightly or wrongly, toward a kind of \jock\ school image. The likelihood of Union's acquiring a new .and academically less attractive image is increased by the fact that the College would be likely to lose many of our traditional associations with the NESCAC schools. Since their reputation rests almost exclusively on academic excellence, leaving could be perceived as a signal that our emphasis of resources for •the academic programs must be lessened. It is quite possible, in other words, that while the sports publicity might attract numbers of students who would not otherwise apply, it would have relatively little i·rrtpact ort academically gifted high school seniors and may, in fact, discourage some from applying who regarded Union as a school Then~ remains the question, of of the Task Force. Some are hard schools. - Union's NESCAC membership. (or impossible) to answer The preoccupation of some at The Task force has learned that, definitively, so we simply raise Uniop witn NESCAC's recruiting whatever the theoretical them here for consideratton by restrictions should .not draw possibilities that seemingly existed the Union community. f,low attention a·way from the real, for freedom of divisional beneficial to the . College's. tangible succ.;:ss many Union alignment in NESCAC, in fact academic purposes wo.uld a major teams have enjoyed within these NESCAC has indicated that scheduling realignment be? Which restrictions. As tbe records of Division I play is incompatible schools should Union then turn most of our teams indicate, our with the league's philosophies. to? Would the College thertby ability to attra«t - competent This means that the College enhance its overall athletic: student--athletes, despite the would be required to sever its program? lf the College_ were to NESCAC restrictions; is quite association with NESCAC if we resign from NESCAC, it is very adm~rable. elected to compete in Division I unlikely that we could return at a Last year, to further aid- our in hockey. Perhaps · more later date. However. there are already successful recl!uiting importantly, it is likely that a other reasons for ·leaving efforts, the Athletic. Departm(!nt resignation would soon be NESCAC' besides the hockey started an alumni recruiting followed by a severing. of athletic issue. Many at Union expressed organization named the l;:lunt relationships, in many if not all strong feelings of disappointment Club· With s U ffi c i e 'n t sports, with most if not all that the league does not keep encouragement and .support from NESCAC school:>. Thmagh standings, hold post-season ieam the College, it is conceivafile that hockey itself would be little tournaments, or strive for more this group· (;ould be strengthened and coulii do much to overcome limits posed by NESCAC recruiting testtictions. There are, too, distinct advantages in restricting: the role of the coaches- . in recruiting. Less time spent in recruiting; especially off campus., means considerably less expense. It also allows the athletic staff to devote more time on campus to our overall athletic program, includihg especially non-varsity athletes in the intramural and recreational programs. As the section on intrainurals makes clear, it would .be good to have greater involvement of the athletic staff --in these programs. We see the need to strengthen the health and physical well being of all our students. Greater effort here, without in any way making Union intercollegiate teams less well coached or less competitive, are consistent with what should be the overall role of athletics at Union. affected, thi1l would produce widespread publicity. Yet it is enormous scheduling difficulties difficult to see how leaving the in many of Union's other 19 league will improve our situation. varsity sports. This is because a N ESCAC . has chosel't ttot to third to h~lf of the schedules .of- publish league standin-gs or allow most U mon teams are Wtth extended post season in team NESCAC op.ponents, and, even sports. Indeed, the league policy more, because many of these allowing \open\ sclteduling is games. are among the most meant, in part, to discourage appeahng on our schedules. . strengthening of the league in the . Some may ask why· NESCAC conventional sense. We think that schools would not continue to · it is most unfortunate that the sched.ule ~ames With U11ion, league members hold on so especially m spo~t~ .where both tenaciously to this rule, since compete on the Dtvtston lii level. NESCAC would seem to have the The Task F~rce can point to three potential to develop into a smali factors w~t~h, taken .together, version of the Ivy League. make us W11l~ng to predt~t that a Thou·gh there Ius been N ESC~C · wtthdrawal WI I~ so~ll considerable discussion among result m ·a sharp reduction m other NESCAC schools too sc.heduling wit~ .member schools. tllat NESCAC adopt more 'activ~ First.. by lea~u·~g !he,. league. policies~ (by. promoting league especially for b1g ttme '(ot at champwnshtps or regularly lea~t \bigger .. time\) . athletics. publishing league standings, for Um~n. would. be. consciously an~ example), we see little likelihood exi?hcttly re)echng. N ES~AC s that these policies will be changed phtlosophy of athletics. Is tt then in the near future. Bllt NESCAC reasonable to expect them to members have worked to.gethe:r to continue to schedule Union as if change or modify some important N ESCAC scheduling policies nave also received criticism. NESCAC schools have the freedom to schedule all non- league opponents if they wish. The number of athletic events in which we engage NESCAC competition has c11anged, though not markedly~ since we joiried the league. Thus, the benefits which we hope to -receive from-· NESCAC affiliation have been ~omewhat hampered by the \open-scheduling\ .rule. There is some question as to how much Union has done to add NESCAC schools to our twenty-four sports schedules. And, rightly or wrongly. the public crit:cism of NESCAC by some Union coaches has hampered efforts to increase, league scheduling. t( Union continues to belong to NESCAC, we think it Would be good to work with the other members to schedule more contests~\ih the future. PARI In a< an <;om.m.i~ study resultin numbe~ ca111pus Parkin! were S~pterrt AU operate< staff wJ campus lde.ntific at SecuJ cost ol displaye, register of $50. aut.o,m-< pFopert~ no resJ damage All 11 to Collt on the on all miles pi subject suspensi automo Unim Campus right of for efu, operatio miniilui1 to us~ a ttaver t d'riving i th.an ro1 •I Parkin Contint has a< intellect\ .with su Dayan, Blanc a The prel other co has also this area The faculty well and increase teaching also bee: cordial relations] strc;:ngth. The A and wel the fresJ: TWin } ·uppercla! are to li new sta1 ready to Cabaret, Film C provide· t entertain! the fa along aft homecon: ·all the performa Soccer te, .have cer new win1 Union Fe :has come the ma:1 successes expect. Women's their shan

C()_N,CQRDJENSJS, Wedne$day, Oct. ?7, 1976 Page 15 Parking on Campus BEWARE! PARKING AND 1'RA:t?FIC REGULATIONS In fl<:cordQ.nce with findings of · an inde.pendent S!Jrvey comm.i~sione~ by the College to· study chimging traffic .patterns resulting .fr~m the increase in: the number of 'vehicles operated. on campus, the following revised Parking ~;~nd Traffic Regulations were adopted and effective September 1 ~ 1976. ' REGISTRATION All vehicles owned and operated by students; faculty and staff which will be par'k:ed on campus must- be registered. · Identification decals will '.beis·sued at Security & Safety- Office at a cost of $2.00 aM must be . displayed ~t aU. times. Failure tQ register a cat may tesult in a fine of $50.00 and the towing of automobile from CoUege ptoperty, as the College assumes no respc:m~ibility for loss. or damage to personal property. TRAFFIC f;\11 rn9tor vehicles are subject to College traffic regulation while on the Campus. Tlie speed limit on ~~~ campus roadways is 15 miles .per hour. Violators will be subject to fines · and possible suspension of the right to keep an automobile at the ·College. · Union College is a \Walking\ Campus and pedestrians have the right of way at all times. Except for ernl:rgencies, mofor vehicle operation sltould be kept to a minitnunl. D.rivers are urged not to us~ automobiles as a means of ttaver t<f and from aas\ses. 'N~ d'riving is permitted in areas other th.an roadways a.nd p,arking lots. •i· ,! .• . PARKING Parking is on a first come basis. Continued from Page ll has added much to the intellectual life of the campus . with such speakers as -Moshe Dayan, Ella Grasso, to Mel Blanc and M. Stanton Evans. The presence of Garry Wills and other college sponsored lecturers • h,a$ also contributed greatly in this area of Campus life. The large number of !lew faculty members have blended well and added greatly to further increase the excellence of teaching at Union. They have also been very surprised by the cordial student-faculty relationship, always a Union strength. The Arts at Union . are ali:ve and well. Two excellent plays, the freshman production of the Twi(l Menaechmi and the ·upperclass version of P~er .. Gynt are to be performed so()n. The new stage band will soon be ready to entertain the campus. cabaret, C()ffeehouse and the Film Committee combine to provide. the campus with . .regular. enter.tainment-. · ... The fall sports season is racing along after ,a slow start. A great homecoming weekend was. made all the sweeter by the fine performances ofthe Football.and Soccer teams. The last two games have certainly indicated that a new winning era has begun in Union Fot>tball. The Soccer team has come around to perform in , the manner that their . past successes have spoiled us to expect. Cross Country and Women's Sports have also added their share of excitement this fall. Students are permitted to park only in the parking areas assigned to dormitories and fraternities, and in the Nott,. Seward Streets lot and the Nett Stteet lot on the North side of Field Houf!e. Cars must be left .n marked areas, No student parking will be permitted (l) on any unpayed area, (2) in any parking area for Faculty-Staff or Admission Guest · parking area, (3) in · any roadway or on any sidewillk. Specifically, ·students are · · not perm~itted to park automob~les, motorcycles or other power-operated vehicles in the Library Lot, in the lot behind the Oym, in ·the lot behind Carnegie Center, the· ·Jot adjacent to Old Gym; · in the Administration Building lot;· in the Wells House lot, in lots adjal?ent to · Maintenance Department and the· parking area located behind· Lamont House. Student parking · is also prohibited on aJI roadways, including the roadways in front of ·the Gymnasium and between the Administration Build.ing and Fox-Davidson. These regulations apply on a 24- hour basis. Streets Jots aml Nott Street lot North of the Field House. They are not permitted in lots normaUy reser¥ed for resident students,· Faculty and Staff. Evening Division students are required· to park in the Nott Street lot. located to the North side of the Field House; inter- campus parking will be permitted in Faculty-.staff areas when Nott Street lot is full, during the hours of 6:00 P.M. to H:OO P.M. Faculty and Staff are permitted to · park in designated lots ENFORCEMENT adjacent to' academic and The Campus Police, or others Administrative buildings. Parking appointed by the College, will is ·prohibited in roadways and issue pa,rking and traffic tickets to student lots. Visitors to campus aU violators. Students accused of are. permitted to park temporarily reckless dri-ving, speeding or other in any legar parking area. traffic offenses must appear Admission Guest a're permitted to beft>re the College Traffic Court. park temporarily in spaces the Coutt may impose a fine located adjacent to Old Gym Hall · and/ or may suspend student and South College. On weekends privilege to park or operate a and durirtg the e-verting&; visitors vehicle on· Coflege'property: Any' eire. peririitted to par-k .fri areas person ' causing the theft,. normally reserved f6t Faculty and possession or ·destruction of any Staff. • vehicle or Traffic Regulatory sign Undergraduate commuters to from Union College Campus shall Union College are permitted to result in a fine of $100.00 in p~k o~}Y. in ths: Nott and Seward addition to.,. cost ~of. .};:~pair. . \ . ~--~~ . ' .• : ... 1·': ·~.!'i~ ·:_:-..·;_..-r. ',' .,.. .• ~ -.-<~' ·- tETlEifS The I. F .C. is kicking - off people left· notes irt the box after another year with the .kind of a note was posted ASKING for catnpu!! service and support that · comments on a new item. On Union has always expected and that morning, 282 people came to received from its fraternities. The,· br-eakfast. That's right math rush season is in full swing and majors, I A Perc:;ent response. that always means great partying When you feel you must for all on the campus. complain about. the food/ service-, There is plenty of room for tell someone who can make a improvement at Union College difference. Tell us when we're but I for one think its a great doi11g well, too. place to be and I'm proud to be a Sincerely. Dave ])ale 1977 Union student and a member of the Union community. Sincerely, Andy Sandler slneerely sa,_a To The Editors: . This letter is actually addressed to the freshman class. I have been working at West (SAGA) for three y~ar~. Instdting t~~ food a~d/ or service h~s been a standing source of amusement for those years, and l. imagine well before. lt may come as a surpri11e to many, btit there is a strong effort this year to really iiJlprove the quality of dining at West. However, improvement is difficult if the people in charge don't know what to correct or what to leave aione. the manager is around aU day and is more than glad to talk to students, and there has always been the \SAGA suggestion box\ if the tnanag~t frightens you. These lines of communication are rarely used. As the final cry from the silent majority, a total of 4 fer earter To the Editors: We're approaching. an important time in our history, a time when we have ·to de.cide whether we should elect a new President or retain the one we have. Our nation is bitter due to the many national tragedies of tecent years, such as Watergate, unemployment, inflation, and the energy shortage. Each of us has a ~y. no matter how small it rnight be. in our nation's future. Let us Use that influence we have by vo.ting for the man each of us feels is bes't qualified t() lead our nation through these troubled times. This letter is just a reminder for each and every student who hasn't as of yet voted to get out and VOTE, be it by absentee ballot or at the polls on November 2nd. We have a. responsibility to ourseh'es to do so. Sincerely, Conc:erned Stndents for Carter PARKING AREAS AND LOT DESIGNATIONS .. , . , . ' , •. , -. (! .. r :, ' ' : , .. Damage i() 'College property by motor vehicle shall result in a fine of $25;00 and ~ost of repair. The operation of any vehicle in such a manner as to create _ excessive noise or smoke, or operation of any vehicle which is in an unsafe condition will result in revocation of registration. Further action may also be recommended to the Student Conduct Committee. All persons who receive parking tickets must pay the appropriate fine within one week from date of violation at the Security Office, Stoller Hall. Accused students may appeal tickets in the Student Traffic Court. Faculty-Staff have the right to appeal to the Campus Committee. The schedule of fines for parking offenses will be as follows: first offense, $2.00; second offense, $5.00; third offense, $10,00;. fourth offense, $25 .00; fifth offense, de-·. registration for ·the remaining year. Unpaid fines and administrative charges will be attache9 to offe!lder's subsequent . ' . registration bill :JY & STAFF PARKING STUDENT OWNERSHIP AND OPERATION OF MOTOR VEHiCLES All students who own and I or operate automobiles, motorcycles, scooters or other power-driven vehicles on College property are required to observe the regulations herein stated and any subsequent amending regulations adopted and published by Union College Administration or College Senate. Storage of unlicensed cars, motorcycles or others is prohibited. After notification owners must mQve cars, etc.; if not moved off Campus, all unregistered, illegally parked or abandoned vehicles will be towed away at owner's expense and responsibility. FACULTY AND STAFF The above parking and traffic regulations· also apply to members of the Faculty and . Staff. Any violations are payable within one week from date of violation at the Security Office, or may result in .the ·loss of parking privilege. Air-Waves Continued from Page l · up all th~ intricacies involved in a new venture. The time and money spent on the project were very great for a small radio station such as WWWD to have undertaken haphazardly. WWWD claims that there was an agreement; Union's Athletic Department claims there was not. It must be assumed that WWWD is mistaken because of the fact that WRUC still has the exclusive rights. However, one question looms largely over the whole situation. The granting of broadcast rights from Union College to WWWD would have serious effects on WRUC. In monetary terms, WRUC would have stood to lose a great deal of money in .sponsorships. Union's independent radio station · is presently engaged in a long term struggle to become a \big final decision would have had to have been OK'd by either the head of the program center (the A.D.) or the Responsibility Center Head (the Provost or President). Whey didn't anyone in the Administration know about the idea until Monday? Whether the plan was merely a ·passing thought or a concrete agreement, someone in a high administrative position or WRUC, especially, should have been asked for their comments on the subject. For weeks, WWWD has been airing advertisements of their intention to broadcast Union's contests; yet no announcement, one way or another, was made to the student body. Hopefully, a situation like this will never happen again. carter time\ college station with a large Continued from Page 5 broadcasting. radius.. Such a setback at this stage would be uneventful. All one can say after very disastrous, indeed. reading Carter's so called \brash\ Another, more serious, result of . remarks is: ••so What'r' having outside br.oadcasting is the The logical question is, \What fact that such a decision would be impact will the interview have a di:rect encroachment on upon the public and the election'r' students' rights. WRUC has .gone Apparently the impact of the on record as saying that they \incredible Playboy interview\ is · would have been 1 and would still tantamount to a ripple on the. be, happy to co-broadcast the Atlaniic Ocean. 'rhe best one can games with an outside station. ~y about the interview is that it But they were never approached was flat, uninteresting and b uninformative. The worst that y~~~ . one can say is that it was This is the most serious aspect ludicrous and a waste of Carter's of the whole issue. If such a move and the reader's time. In many was even considered by any respects the worst can be said. representative of the Rink Our expectations were high and Program, why was no one else the product of Playboy's efforts notified'? Supposedly, the initial was no more satisfying than this idea was put forth in J!JlY and any month's center-fold.

CONCORDIENSJS, Wed~esday,.Oct. 27, 1_976 l :..:~ · as51tlet)s · JilES · The. o.-.necr.s '•se- Of the New CONCOICUii!.I'ISis k prtm~rlly a stUdent se~l~; as 111eh, aUi material submitted wlll be pubiiJhetl FREE of eharae. To insure that the items sul)mltte4t are · prlnte~, aU copy MU$T be In by ~onday at . 8:00 PM. Items. 1o 'be repe~ted' ~uat •v~. tbf· number Of ru-. specified. The Union Co~p CONCORDJENSIS usumes no respondhQity for F,.T ...... Once again you've proven to be indispensable~ I don't know what I'd do without you. - M. (:ongrahdations Harris - You've been .a<*pted as a member in good standing by thePRFC. Riders wanted to Amherst Friday October 29 Returing Sunday October 31. Contact Amy 6510: Need a Ride? Put your request on. the air. The WRUC ride Board will put your request on at W:30 am, 6:25 pro and 10:30 pm. Leave your first name, dates leaving and returing &destination at the WRUC studios on the second floor of Carnegie Hall. If you· can give a· ride, leave your .name at the studio too. . typocrapJeJIJ ·erron, but wm prlat a eorreedon. It yeu want a ride, or you have iometlalnl to .., or you. slmi'IJ w:ant to ~ so~ethlnl or your own printed u' ln. a .maJor world p~tlpn, . PLEA$Et don't besbtet Thf,_ is a .FREE .mice., tO tlke •dvantaae -of· it. If you 811 to •bndti matetlal wbkh .conforms to the format of tile Cllaaifteds •··~ sinQtJJ I'Bp it UDder ... C-~y •· omee 4oor (3rd ftoor C..,ae) or &lYe to · T-odd Millet, 224 West. . Xaviera -,Try me! 372-7026 . \Fun an be cre.til!d, but never destroyed; it merely undergoes a change towards an()ther !llirt~ful morphology ... \ :- ' - .. . ~- . . .. ~ ... - -Kafka • There is still a little time left to sign up for the trip to Russia (December 10 ~ 18, 1976). If interested, contact Mrs. Jernakoff - HU 215, eKtension 6240, or 785-6780. There will be .a meeting of all students interested in working on the Steinmetz electric car, on Tuesday, November 2 at 7:30 pm. The Steinmetz electric car is a 1914 Detroit electric automobile that was onee owned by Charles P. Steinmetz, a past professor at Union. This car was acquired by the college several years ago and is presently being restored by a group of students. There is still much work to be done, and all interested students are welcome to help. The group needs people interested in doing wood work, electrical work, body work, mechanical work, and painting. EKperience is not necessary. If you. are interested in joining, please attend this meeting, or contact Tom Burgess in room 220 West - Box 125. The meeting will be held in the college machine lab, located behind Carnegie Hall (enter through green door at the center of the lab). STATE LEGISLATIVE INTERNSHIPS INFORMATIONAL MEETING Seniors, Juniors, and Sophomores from all majors invited to hear about two internship prowams for winter and spri11g terms, Comprehensive J;:duc;ttion 08-18, \The State ·Legislature in Action\ and PS 17fi.:l78, ~Legislative. Observers .. \ 4:30 Wed., Nov. j. Social Sciences 115 Interested students who cannot attend should see Professors Tidmarch or Underwood, Homecoming 1977. All students, faculty and administrators interested in revamping the present homecoming format and organizing fall 1971 efforts please leave your name in the student activities office or call Eli Portnoy at 393-8239 for more info. A PARTY featuring free beer, munchies, and other goodies, will be held in Room 106 of the Arts Building, from 7:15'until 1'0:30 or so, on the. evening of Thursday, Nov. 4. All are invited. 'J,'HERE IS ONE CATCH. To be admitted, you must bring a band instrument and be prepared to play in a short rehearsal, before any of the above beer, munchies, etc. will be served. MUSICIA-NS, WE KNOW YOU'RE OUT THERE! If you want a band at Union, it's now or never. FILM COMMITTEE 10-30/31 Day of The Jackal Sat. & Suu., 7-9:30-12 11/4 Fail Safe Thursday 7-9-11 *NOTE: Fail Safe is being show11 on Thursday, November 4th, not Wednesday, November 3rd. Attention: Anyone interested in working on the National Ski Patrol call Steve Levine at 370-3039 or drop a note in Box 231. The PENNY PINCH~ER QUALITY CLOTHES- LOW PRICES U~ED BUT NOT ABUSED CURRENT STYLES 1122 ALTAMONT AVE. (Entram:e Berniee St.) Tuesday - Saturday 10-S Thursday's till 9 p.m. 356·2571 HAPPY HOUR! EV£FlY FRIDAY AFrEJ:l.NOON IZ--6 P.M.' AT THE'sKELLAR /1/Cf/ELOB ~C.HLtrz ctsENESEE f/7J;H£R?t /P(Jz. DBAF[ fts-o zot. ft.1.5 15¢ ~.oo IP¢ CREAM ALE conu15 ever · RECRUITMENT ANNOUNCEMENT HARVARD BUSINESS SCHOOL MBA PROGRAM Anne J. McDonough, Assistant Director of Admissions at Harvard University's Graduate School of Business Administration will be on campus Monday, November l, 1976 to meet with students interested in the two-year MBA Program. Contact the Placement & Career Counseling Office for more details and to sign up for art infonnation session. Harvard Business School is committed to the principle of equal educational opportunity and evaluates candidates without regard to race, sex, creed or national origin. Happy Anniversary REAB what a year! Ill barb - .an.anonymous polish person. Love, Snaggles (m·B.IJ.] The Alllllt~ill' GJnecologists' Dear !Job. Sehwabackei: good luck with Club now has several openings available your SJ!agetti din11er, but learn to. hOld - W;tit,1et me rephrase that ... To the campu~ con;munity .., You missll(! a great party at Vassar. for further information as to when out next run south wm be ask John Holmes. Webster has located. its first 9.97 on a scale oflO. If you'd like ·a peek stop by 2nd floor Webster. · All those who are intere~ted in joining the FENCING CLUB should contact Greg Scott in room 423 South, 374-9895 or BoK 816, No experience necessary. Mash - l'mchiding in zee front closet... your roomie KC - ijope to se.e you soon, now .that you're one of us, you're always welc;ome. 212 !' down those tomatoes, fella. Platonic - you know I wouldn1t have said anything if I didn't care ~ I To Xaviera . ...,. AIJ..t!le decent MEN at u.c. are not interested in. whores like you. Instead, they are IMking for intelligent, well mannered, personable women where physical invoJvement enh<tnces the relation~hip, not where .it is the pur,pose of it. too had these women are so hare! to find here. Some ·of us have enough sense and self-assurance not to go for !pose · WOI!len like you. Cervantes. Cheryl,- To CM, RAS, JA - h !=ilUld only happen · at Union! Tha,ni:s for your understanding ·and support. I love you all. ~tRD Dalia ... Hi there beaut~ful, I like applesaiice too. - signed. your not-so- ·Secret admirer. SENIORS - The time i~ now to revolt against the tyrant called Tnesis.. Stand together and fight for yout sanity, dignity, and general salvation. - (signed) Workin' on the Footnotes. Buteh - Will you take .Cl!re of the goldfish when you're in Montana'/ - Susie Har - C U later ... Andy Cucumber - The bells have got to go Halloween Party this Fri. Oct. 29th at 9:00 rum and cider, donuts, apples, candy, gl;.mes, fun, and prizes for best costume, most original costume and BEST .IMITATION OF DEAN SMITH and PROVOST ENTEMAN. . Come celebrate Halloween with the Pub Friday Night.. Phil, Nothing to say but l had to get you in. HH , A.B. - When are you going to come visit me? I'm pining away day and· night.- M. To N, - 1 have the note you put on. my door. I'm sure it was an ecstatic 2 minutes. Take the \ticket.\ Reveal your essence t.o· me.-M. Chickens of212 Fox! Wing it, Wong it! Ma Souris: Happy Anniversary (Ll-1). Danny - I promise l won't laugh neKt lime. - Mary C. Ride needed ·to Long Island (Plainview) or New York City on Friday, Nov. 5 Will share driving and eKpenses. Call Michael at 6513 or see !De at Fox room l 15. Cindy is offering a ride to Boston on Fri<lay, Oct. 29. Come find out how much fun a ride with Cindy can. be! 393-2203. DD - We couldn't forget you again this week. Third floor north Davidson. Lester Weiss: Well you were almost there, this last week. Several of us thought we were on the verge of understanding the cartoon. If we only could have seen what it was they were talking about. Cli'ise, but no cigar. \What call I say when I need you more Dear CaJ'ol - It would l)e nice if yo.u each day?\- ATS would write. Maybe even a visit this year. -Harris The Lester Weiss Interpretation Council (all 1,912 of us .. signatures by request) Webster has finally started a library. For further information see George Sax. Donations will be accepted .. r.a.k. i know my needs, ny sweet tumbleweed i need more 'quiet times by a river flowing, you and me. i see your face often ... ~eally. Wheezer Ferd - You're a ROCK!!!! Can Janie come out and play'! Allan G - Who cut your legs off? - A, R andJ , join today! Simply submit your nickname for inclusion in this year's Nickname Journal, Vol. One, to Box 297 now! Join 127 other happy members now! To J.L - You are a chicken! Missed Henceforth Mo Millett shall be known you at midnight at the. idol. What a baby. ~A.R. as Moses. MSM - you are my life. HL This week's offer: James Faber Tremlett, of West College, has survived three plus years of Union College life without the benefit of a nickname anymore creative than ~im', or the slightly advanced 'Jimmy.' Have an idea? Voting begins today. Submit your idea to Box 297 now~ (The NN-C hopes to eKpand its headquarters soon, for now though, we are confined to the office space contained in a mailbox.) Senior thesis wanted dealing with \Bureaucracy in State Gov't.\ Am will to pay upwards from $65,000. For an 80 page paper with no questions asked. Call Y ossariari at 370-3039; Thanks everyone, for coming·.·down to the Oak Room on Saturday night. trhere IS a differenee!!! PREPARE FOR: MCAT• OAT• LSAT• SAT GRE • GMAT • OCAT • CPAT • VAT Over 38 years of experience and.success. Small classes. Vpl- umlnous home study materials. Cour~s that are constantly updated. Centers open days & weekends all year • Complete tape facilities for review of class lessons and for use of ... supplementary materials. Make-ups for missed lessons at · our centers. ECFMG • FLEX NAT'L MEDICAl & DENTAL BOARDS Flexible Programs & Hours ·Our broad range or programs ~Jrovldes an umbrella of testing know: how !hat enables us to offer· .the best preparation available,. f!Jrlher improving the Individual course you've selected. Bklyn, . 212-336-53()() Manhattan_ 212-683-5'005 Long lsland-516-538-4555 New Jersey_201•254-1620 Outside NY State Only ~:k~ree 800·221·9840 · Centeroln MaJor us ~ilkis . . TiCKETS FOR- ! ~1l MP.IIN DUCATIONA.L CENTEII·LTD 16'75 E 16 Sl Bklyn NY 11229 JEST PREPARATION $PECIALIS'tS SINCE. 1936 . . \ A Night ot the Roces'; AT SARATOGA HARNESS ON NOVEMBER 5 PRESENTED BY THE SOCIAL COMMITTEE ARE NOW AVAILABLE AT STUDENT ACTIVITIES IN CARNEGIE Prices $2.00 for Reserved Seats -L~slie $1.25 for General Admission Transportation will be provided for all ticket holders at no charge. If you were so intent upon looking at my fly during \all that,\ I would be happy ·· to give you the big picture; as it were. Meet me in the Contordy office, baby, and let's make a deal. - Mo Dear Sirs - Please cancel the personal ad concerning Prof. Stelmack's search for rabbits. It was all a· farce. Thank you. Sincerely, -The Mad Hatter There is an old saying: When better women are made, Union men will make them! TAM - You just about the dumbest pusky thing I ever done seen. Human Lance. To everyone - Hi = Everyop.e else. Well, gang, if anyone remembers reading this column fast term, you probably remember reading an offer made by one \Fax who was seeking nubile young felines to complete his stable. The response was so great that it is only now that the offer can be re-made. Again, fertile Fax (we watched, right Lesklie'l) Seeks feline Companionship. Humans need not apply. Box 297. Steve Weinstein: sorry about that viciO\IS rumor. Jo, Call me whatever you like- Looney Bird Blair STILL doesn't understand. jim. just remember: in the beginning there was much rain. it rained for 40 days and 40 nights ... there was much water, muc and other sorted rain things ... but hawaii floated away ... (mUst be chanted in B minor) . Skwitz: \Great ball, Affied!\ The 6lintz: \That's what she said ... \ BUSINESS OPPORTUNITY Stuff Envelopes $25.00 PER HUNDIED Immediate Earnings Send $1.00 To: Envelopes Dept 339A 310 Franklin Street Boston, Mass. 02110 .. Tl W< Russt Mf with ·Brow Hous Ad Syste Alfre1 Instit Mam Rm. Pia Mobi N•ov .. econc majo1 posi Distri office Lee on t Chop Easte speci relati1 Sovie proje1 Studi As so( Ba Slingc Play I Unim after Da Dutcl Hes by Organ p.m. Pu~ forum Scben Sche1 Washi 7:30 p I · Plan Commi delibera 1977-78 Welcom Rm .. IO A dan pianist, Bartok Institun WashinJ 4478. Cap it presents Cathedr Concepl $3.50, $ Mm>ic ·~ Hallo p.m. Fe, En term~ Blood Lorea, 1 Sage R1 Little College, $1.25. (< .TY • Re • Til ) 433l

- CONCORPIENSIS, Wednesday, Oct. 27, 1976 - . . -~ .. . Page 17 ·.' Couuuittees Continued from Page 7 PRESIDENTIAL ADVISORY BOARD T. ·· hurs. Oat ·~a· . . ., 'II.:< ... .Sat., Oet. 30 ··' The Board shall advise t·he ·Pre~ident on such mailers which he may bring before it, as wei! as on matiers bteug!Jt to it from other sources. It shaU keep the Presideni informed. of Campus..senthnent witlt regard to existing or propose\! College policies.·lt sh:lll also aot.as corporate .ombudsman to hear grievances which are .not wit)Jin the purview of other duly constituted College bodies or which cannot .lie resolved by ~ 11 b 1·1 U · · · suc!l -bodies, and the Board shall . act on appeals from \Vmnens Vo. ey !l ' · · mo,n vs. Cro.ss. C~nmtry - Albany.. recommendations from the Committee· on Faculty .in a~;cor.dance with Russell. Sage, 7 p.m. Gymnasium hlyit~tional at Albany. procedures adopte!J. PY the FacilitY at its meeting of February 16, M t' f N F lt ·. . . . . . 1976, ·It will automafi'cally ·be ~onstilled on appointment~ to major · ee mg o · ew acu Y - Varsity· Foqtball ,_ Umon vs:. administrative.·ppsts ;!l the College. reviewing in ~uch cases the need. with De~n of Fa.;utty .. aula Williams. 1:30 p.m. Away. -. for ti1!l !\ppoii)!ITicrit and the !Jtoced!!olJlS to be lls_eq~ for ma!dng ti. T.Jie Brownlee 4:30 p,m., Upper Hale · JV. · s . - r u· · . noard sJ;lall 'have the respon~ibiJity for overseeing tl!e <;:!=!liege <tnd I . · .· . :0 C C e • . _ n1? n • V S. • . _dep!lr\me!ltal hqnors PI~r<J.mt\, !.l_s well as the various fellowship House ounge. . . . . Mtddlebury, 2 p.m. Gans field. ' ··.;~t'ogl!lm$ :fhrli'Wlii!:h'Jlie~iil~]le.:-act~ as nomir1ator. .It shall. from time _Administrativ-e _& E~gineering _ Varsi~y Soccer _ · Urtfon vs. to tim~. r~asse~~~-tll~,:~i>r~ms:.a#~·,,pr~:!lsses of· govetn~ncc.. . • . s_ ystems Colloq· Ulum· Speaker M''dd'l b\ 3 . D ·t· \F' . ld' . The Bml'r~ may _reas~tgn problems to other committees. and .may · . . .·. •. . · \ . · · ' · ·. I . e · ury ,, p.m., . a ey .· Ie . appeal <!ny ISS\!e iltrectly to the College Sen;~te. Alfr~d L .. Th1m~,. Dtr~ctor of ·nay .of the ·Jackal . pres, by · . Faculty·: Sick (1978}. Eva1,1s '(i977}. Ketchum (1978}, Underwood lnsutute of A.dmlntstratton and . . . · ·. ·~ .·.·.· . . (.1979) , Management. 4 p.m. Bailey Hall. Ftlm (:'~:mu:mttee. 7 • 9 .30, 12 •0(). Administration: Presid¢nt Bonner . . . Rll'i:. 207. · Soc. Set. Rm-016. .. ~ttld.ents:Bal'ry Eagelfel\1, Murray Le.vmson, Uamel Rosenbaum, 1 2nd Annual South College freshman. to be chosen Placement Sign-ups f0r Mobil Oil Recruiting on Tues: Nov. 9, all engineering, economics, math, and chemistry majo_rs. for Supply Analyst p·ositton jn Supply & Distribution. 9:30 a.m. Placement office. Lecture: Toby Gati will speak on the United Nations, Price Chopper Community Room, Eastern Ave.,. Sch'dy. Ciati, a speciaUst in international relations with emphasis . on Soviet-American relations, is project director of the Parailel Studies Program of the UN 1ssociati:on. 8 p.m. Barefoo-t in Athens, Slingerlands Players. 8:40 p.m., Playhouse, Ddaware Tpk., Unionville. CaU for info. 439.;9811 after 7 p.m. Daryl B.eard will appear at the Dutch Hollow Pub, 9-midnight. Hester Street - film pres~nted by the Jewish Student Organization. Soc. Sci.-0 16. 8 p.m. . · . . . .. . Alumm: I to be chosen Halloween Party. 9 p.m. Prizes & raffles. The Law, Order, aficJ Justice Center will hold a rummage sale · at the First United Methodist Church, 603 State St., from 9 a.m.-3 p.tn. Proceeds will go to the Center's criminal justice reform work. Blood Wedding, by Garcia Lor.ca,: 'presented by the Russell Sage Rep~rtory Theater, at the Little 'theater,. Russell .Sage College, Troy. 8 p.m. Students $1.25. ~also Oct. 29, 31.) ·Sun., Oet. 3 ' Day of the Jackal, pres. by Film Committee, 7, 9:30, 12:00. Soc. Sci. R'm.-016. · Catholic. Mass - followed by social. Strauss Lounge. PUBLI(: RELATIONS This committee is responsible for plans and polid¢s with respect to cat~ying Union'& message beyond its own campus. lt is responsible for helping to .communicate imernall'y about the activities .Of the Public Relations Office and the \image\ of Union, as well as for giving advice and guidance i9 the Pub,lic Relations Director for va.rious public relations programs. It is also responsible for the annual program of Speakers and special· events. · ·Faculty: Calabria, Stevenson Administration: Maranville Students: Richard Elkind, Cheryl Swanson Alumni: Albert S. Callan '41 SECURITY This committee; is ·lo develop policies and plans with respect to . security and safety procedures and to ma'ke recommendations with respect to resource allocations in thi~ area. Faculty: Titus Administration: Wood Students: Glen Emelock, Edward kuhk. Charles Greene Staff: I to be ·chosen STANDING OF STUDENTS This body reviews the records of those students earning les~ than a satisfactory term average. It deals with student petitions lor readmission and .for exceptions or modifications in graduation requirements. It may recommend actions as outlined in· the Acadtmic 'Register. I! may review those college policies affectil)g the academic standing of students at Union and is particularly charged to re- examine at ·regular intervals the criteria for .Oean's List sianding. Game Night - every luesday at Cabaret 9 p.m.-1 a.m. Garry Wills' Lecture has been rescheduled for Thursday, Nov. 4, at 8 p.m. Soc. Sci. Rm-016. The Faculty: Kent, Nelson, Milillo. Stone Administration: Brownlee, C. Schmidt. M-. !-imith ~ludents: Joseph Adeo. Elizab~th Hellmer,, Karen Spur STUDENT LIFE This committee· 1s responsible' tor progrum; and plan~ fur th~ yuulity ot studer>! lite and behavior on campu~. It 11 rc;ponMblc tor passing ·on particular cases of studcn! misconduct (for -~hich 1t rna~ ·wish to act through a duly constituted ~ubcommlttce. l Faculty:·· Hittlcman Adtni11.istration: M. Sm1th St!icJeqts: M<1rjmie Kohn. Scott Klwn. Mary Matllmurc Aiumlt.l: I tv be chosen ... S·UPPOR.T SERV!.CES This 9ommi1te~ will he responsible- tor policies.and pr.ocedurc>. v.1th respect to the Academic Opporturuty :P-rogram. h .i>- responMblc lor providing supportive service> to students who are brought to Un1on without the ordinary :pr~paratwn expected· of admitled lJmon stut!ents. fo'aculty: Wells, Zw1cker Administration: Rojas-Hill Students: Diana Ua/ 1olo. Cheryl ·.1 ankel. I freohman to be cho>en Stiff> I· to be chm,en ,...- 'FA.CUt:rv COMMITTEES ACADJo:MfC ~-R_fEDOM,. tENURE AND PROFESSIONAL CONDUCT Heeled by the faculty, this committee is re>poh>ible for re\lewmg cases in which a -faculty ,m.:mber reque~t~ a review because he feels (a) 'that his .acaoemic fre~qom has been infringed upon. (b) that a decision on his tenure has .been made in a manner which conflicts with proper College procedure or with the rub set down jointly by the American Association of Colleges and the Anierican Association of University Professors. (Such a review is not intended to apply to the judgments on the academic qualifications of the faculty member arrived at by the Committee on Faculty.), (c) that a disciplinaf) action based on a charge of professional misconduct is .unjust, oF (dl combinations of (a). (b), or (c), While investigating such an appeal. .the committee shall. have access to all information it believes relevant to the case. It shall render a judgment which shall affirm or override the decision appealed. Appeal from this judgment, either by the administration or by the faculty member. can be taken only to the Board of Trustees. Faculty: Stone (1977). Bristol ( 1979). W_ Schwafl! 1981) RESEARCH This is primarily a faculty committee but, as is true in the eKisting system, ther~ will be one member from the administration. This committee, which will· be composed of four .faculty member& and the Dean of Faculty, shoul\1 review the college. policy on research distribution to faculty members and should advise the Dean of Faculty on the discretionary use of those funds that are provided for research. It may, at its discretion, recommend changes in the patent provisions of the Resean;h Corporation. Facully: Baker, Chang, Schneller, Sowa Administnttion: Brownlc:c J.J. Boyfe Pub 471 STATE ST. Publi'c ls invited to attend a forum on W()men and Crinte in Schenectady County at the Schenectady YWCA, 44 Washington Ave., Schenectady 7:30 p.m. Info 374-3394. · Galler;Y Players- - Chamber music, Beethoven, Brahms, Schumann, Barnes, 2:30 p.m., Albany Institute ef History and Art, 125 ·Washington Ave., Alb~ny. Free. 463-4478. House of Wax - film starring Vinc~nt Price, 7:30 p.m., Schact Fine Arts Center. Russell Sage College, Troy. 50¢. 270-2332. General Meeting for Hillel members at 7:30 ·p.m., SS 115. Invites you to a Pre-Halloween Party Thurs., Oct. 28th starting at 8 pm DRAFT BEER $.25 Fri.~ Oet. 29 · Planning and Priorities Committee Meeting • - final deliberations of the budget for 1977-78. All students, faculty are Welcome. 12:30 p.m. Bailey Hall. Rm .. 105. · Adam Fellegi, Hungarian pianist, Beethoven, Chopin, Liszt,. Bartok. 8:30 p.m. Albany 1nstitute of History and Art. 125 Washington Ave.; Albany,. 463- 4478. Capitol Hill Choral Society presents Hora Novissima 8 p.m., Cathedral of the Immaculate Conception, Albany. Tickets $3.50, $2 a.l door or Van Curler's Music Store. 465-4576. Halloween Party at the Pub, 9 p.m. Featuring Deans Smith and Entermann. Blood Wedding, by 'Garcia Lorea; presented by the Russell Sage Repertory Theater, at the Little Theater, Russell Sage College, Troy. 8 p.m. Students $1.25. (also Oct, 30 & 31.) ** $PECIAL** 2. B&rti.Es~~ SC!It...ITZ ~ ,.,.,. Till JI'JttCE-01=- J_ . 7HJ$F.(IIMYI'IitllrAtHSJ -MADISON'S TYPING SERVICE • ~eports • Manuscripts • Thesis • Resumes Prompt Service · Reason'able Rates 433 Liberty St. 372-5841 Schenectady First Women's Football Game At Union ...... second floor West challenging second· floor RiChmond on Alexander Field at 4 p.m. Blood Wedding, by Garcia Lorca, presented by the Russell Sage Repertory Theater, a:t the Little· Theater, Russell Sage College, Troy. 8 p.m. Students $1.25: (also Oct. 29, 30.) Mon., Nov. e Meeting of the Campus Voice U rii on's I n'vestigative Newspaper. 7:30 p.m. Outer office of Student Activities. All are welcome. Toes., Nov. 2 Women's Volleyball - Union vs. Siena~ away. 6:30 p.m. Varsity Soccer - Union vs. N.Adams. Away. 3 ~p.m. LUK~S su;ERMARKET· t3e·£A8TUN AVE. . . ·.8 AM -:JOPM -··7 DAYS l'll: ... oiM,alll ... aad . ..... ,.... .... _..,. Wed., Nov. 3 Women's Swimming .... Union vs. Vermont, Home. 4 p.m. Fail _ Safe - pres. by Film Committee. 7, 9, 11 p.m. Soc. Sci. Rm.-0·16. SIMS Club will meet in Strauss Lo11nge at l p.m., to increase student awareness of Transcendental Meditation. Sp~aker's Forum presents Mel Blanc; creator of such characters as Bugs Bunny and Porky Pig. Soc. Sci. 016. 8:30 p.m. Israeli Dancing - 7 p.m. Old ChapeL ~l.ur Liquor 'center IJquors :- Wines- Cor.dlills 751~ EASTERN AYE. CORNER JACKSON LOWEST PRICES ~LL-QWED IN N.Y. STAT.,£. ·fERRO'S. PHARMACY closest to campus ~DENT DISCOUNT ' 575 Jtfaet St. 377-Mtt 34M3~~ .Mauri,ee B. Graubart & Sons ,.,._ ____________ .The Jay St. Jeweler' · .'Servlng Union ·For Three Generations' 166Jay St •. QuaUty Service & , Fine Workmanship' Eil!-.l!!!:'il!· ....... H.ERSHEL MAVRICE B _WAJ,,J:£R FREE WARM CIDER SANDWICHES SERVED TILL 11:00 SEE YOU THERE! You are respectfully ~invited to the-~ birthday celebration of JACK NEWTON DANIEt Come join us in a joyous celebration of Jack Daniel's 126th Birthday. We're putting up special decorations and there will be special favors and prizes for everyone. Be sure to join us. We're expecting you. Dutch Hollow Pub 9:00-,:00 Nov. 2, 1976

Pagels. CONCORDIENSTS, Wednesday, Oct. 27, 1~76_ 5porta Field Hockey · Closes Sari Gerb displays enthusiasm inherent in this yeqrs crop of cheerleaders. Rain, and whatever else comes along with your basic Schenectady weather brought a dismal end to this years Field Hockey season. Of the 4 games that were to have been played this week, 2 were rained out, and those 2 would have been sure victories -- one against Vassar, and the other vs. SUNY at Oneonta. The other 2 games that were played may just as well as have not been, as both were losses. The first came on Thursday, in a re- Renewed Sailing Club Shows Promise' The Sailing Club, participating in an intercollegiate meet in Albany, Saturday, Oct. 16, placed 3rd competing against 3 other clubs. The regatta consisted of 3 Cheerleading This Fall marks the first full season of cheerleading on the Union College campus in a long time. The squad includes 7 members, led by Senior Captain Alison Donenfeld~· who has been associated with athletic teams for 4 years now. Helping out Alison are co-captains Sari Gerb, and Sue Rothenberg. Other team members include Laura Vickman, Janice Vucinich, Nanette divisions sailing a \'round robin.\ Each of the f0ur schools represented, Union, Columbia U, RPI and Albany State, were entered in each division. After the first set of rs ces, With Year's Best each division sailing one, Columbia displayed their skill by placing well enougp in each race to capture the lead. After the second set of races the balance had shifted, with Union holding a slim one point lead over Columbia. Columbia then met the challenge and promptly tied the series with the next set of races. Union, showing great skill when the pressure was on, turned in · finishes of a 3rd and 2 4ths. Pasquini, and Patty Moran. Union sailed quite skillfully, while The individual responsible for Columbia always seemed to end the return of cheerleaders to the · up at the right place at the right sidelines of Alexander Field is time, no matter what they did. Robyn Leith. She has single The final tally of points gave handedly rejuvenated this sorely Columbia u the regatta. Albany missed aspect of Union sports.·· State took a 2nd and Union With a little help from some finished 3rd by 2 points. The sports die hards, possibly results are still pending, since cheerleading may develop into a Onion has asked for breakdown support group for every Varsity points to compensate for the sport on campus. equipment failure which caused a Football Stats last place finish in the last race. If awarded these points it would put Union in a ,tie with Albany State for 2nd. UNION COLLEGE FOOTBALL STATISTICS CUMULATIVE AFTER 4 GAMES PASSING Att/Comp % Yds lnt Andy Terranova 68/25 36.8 395 5 Mark Broomfield 7!2 28.6 36 0 RECEIVING No. Yds. TD Conv. Bob Mathias 7 194 1 0 Jim Spanfellar 6 83 1 0 Frank Hoster 5 67 1 0 RUSHING No. Yds. Avg. TD Rich Romer 87 399 4.6 2 Doug Napodano 47 172 3. 7 2 Andy Terranova 40 103 2.6 I .. SCORING TD PAT-K PAT-R FG Pts. J .. Kennedy l 0-0 0-0 0-0 6 D. Napodano 2 0-0 0-0 0-0 12 K. Eberly 1 0-0 1-0 0-0 6 R. Romer 2 0-0 0-0 0-0 12 F. Hoster 1 0\'0 0-0 0-0 6 B. Mathias I 0-0 0-0 0-0 6 A. Terranova I 0-0 0-0 0-0 6 J. Spanfellar I 0-0 0-0 0-0 6 K. Hamblett 0 7-5 0-0 1-0 5 UNION 10 7-5 l-0 l-0 65 OPP. 13 ll-7 2-2 0•0 89 The un·ion College Sailing Club is one of the older clubs at Union, yet for numerous reasons has not been very active for· the last 3 years. This year, due to the efforts of Peter Berick, an interest has been stirred in the club and they have been able to compete in 2 regattas, and possibly a 3rd this year. Although the club member.s are new and inexperienced, they have shown the quality of competitiveness and the ability to win. ·1 his club needs the support of the student body so it can offer not just racing but general sa·iling as well. Anyone Who is interested in sailing competitively, get in touch with Peter Berick (Box 897, tel. 6138). If you are just interested in sailing or learning to sail, please contact me since we are trytng to get the school's support for these activities. The real · question for the upcoming season, is whether Tom Burgess can remember that the water belongs on the outside of the boat! Jim Trump rejoices over the 'FKO of receni opponen(. TEAM TOTALS UNION OPP Points 65 89 First Downs 63 58 PUNTING Rushing Yds. 711 607 No. Yds. Avg. Passing Yds. 850 1262 Jim Brown 32 1015 31.7 Total Yds. 1561 1869 Passes Att. 75 76 PUNT RET. No. Yds. Avg. Passes Com pl. 27 27 42 Rich Romer J 12 4.0 Percentage 36 55.3 Had Intercepted 5 4 KICK-OFF Number of Punts 32 23 RETllRNS No. Yds. Avg. Punting Yds. 1015 H45 Bob Mathias 5 105 21.0 Punting Avg. 31.7 36.7 Rich Romer 4 94 23.5 Fumbles Lost 3 14 No. Penalties 23 19 Y ds. Penalized 174 193 schedule match against Russel Sage. Because of mid-terms and various other reasons, Union was forced to play with only 4 defense :Players ~ one short. Sage quickly took advantage of this and won by the score of 3-0. Tired, and feeling ,defeated, the girls returned home on Friday to face Williams. A rainstorm before the game made the field wet and dangerous, as ~id another one during the game. In spots of mud, the ball would stop dead after a hard drive, or else skim quickly across the wet grass. Williams scored their 2 goals in the first hair, and from then on the game remained scoreless. Union outplayed the Ephwomen in every aspect of the game, yet there appeared to be a wall in front of the Union goal, as the ball could not be put into the nets. The final score being Williams 2, Union 0. And so the Field Hockey season is over, this year the record bein,g 3-7, an improvement over last years 2 wins. Many thanks to all who participated, all who spectated, and special thanks to Coach Diana Kerr - an astoundingly good coach AND person! Freshman whiz kid Debbie Poletto has been una.nimously chosen as one of the Players of the Year, this year for Women's Field Hockey. In her first season at Union she has clearly shown her domination on the field, setting up plays, aiding the defense, and being the second high scorer for the girls. Debbie is a liberal arts. major. * * * * Muffy Hart, Field Hockey's high scorer with 7 goals this year, has also been chosen as a Player of the Season .. Muffy's quick stickwork at her left-inner position has forced the opposing ·defense into many mistakes which have resulted in Union's scores. Muffy is a junior majoring m history. * * * * Perky Francis, star center- halfback for the Field Hockey team is easily one of the Players of the Year. Perky's superiority on the field has cle~rly won her this honor .. Many goals against Union were stopped by Perky's amazing defensive play in front of the goal. Aside from dominating the defensive end of the field, Perky also scored her first career goal this year, against Kirkland College. Perky is a Senior this year - majoring in art. Union Pharmacy 600 Union St .. - Men&Women Stude~t .Net!fb 37 .. 38· FOR .LIQUOR AND WINE ..., Try Jake Lipstein' s 464 State Street 374-1888 - Fo:t by LA~ Unio! here in before f the Hoi scQre < Parents here at the illus quite Terrltno Hobart and ac< Hobart tie. In c; . Bill Ma: sl:tow S! in New The domina1 Statesme first tw< time U11 they we Ben K.rc field goa lead. Tl longest I and cle~ yar.ds t1 recovere< on their Andy ad van tag with a t which he defender~ give Unil point Wa! center w~ problem 1 and coulc future po lost a ga11 the extra Startin seemed t< would bt with a 91 tide qui Mathias: kickoff a B by Scott The I Team su week as Universit College. · The wt with a Colgate's puddle. C the fact 1 had not~ an season Juniqr

- CONCORDIENSIS, ,»:_~dnesday, ()ot. Z7,, 19!6 . ' Footballers Fumble to _S·tates.meu by lANCE BOBROW this poipt, it seem~d like the magic of Hobart coach George. Union had an early lead of 9..0 Davis was starting to work. This here in .beautiful Geneva., N ,,y. ·. man had beaten Union five before fumbling the game away to · straight . times com\J'lg 'into ·this the Hobart. Statesmen by a final game. He bart quickly_ capitalized score ·of 28.22_. There was . a as speedster Jack Davis pranced Parents Weekend crowd of 2',500 fot 32 yards atound a !!eemingly here at Boswell Field inCluding lifeless defense to narrow the gap the illustrious Bill Mazer who was to 9-7. · quite impressed with Andy lerranova but described the Hobart .offen.se as neanderthal and accused George Davis, the Hobart coach of ·playing f()r a 0-0 tie. hl C\lSe you do rl(>t k!lOW Who . Bill Mazer is, he is th~ star of :the sl.toW Sports Extra .which is seen in New York .City. · beca~.:~se of a .penalty. This ne~t play is t.he one which killed Union. A. Hobart fumble w~s a~pat:ently recovered by Uni(>~ but the defense was offsides. A few plays later, Jack Davis 8ped. around a let-down defense 'for 38 yards to give Hobart a 28-15 lead. Union then put . together another 87 yard drive Which tQQl: · them over six minutes and actuatly worked to Hobart:s' advantage as they received th~ ball with under tWo minutes.·left in the game arid the Statesmen Page 19 ---~ As if this wasn't enough, pqug Napadano fumbled on the first play from scrimmage on the next series to set up Hobart at tb.e Union 21. The Union defense seemed to rise to the occasion as -they forced Hobart ~to a fourth and goal situation at the Union i. However, Hobart. quarterback Jeff Thon directing the wishbone easily rail out the clock. Ifi ·the ·.scoring drive, Napadano and Romer seemed to waltz tlirou8h a prevent Hobart defense wlticlt- wa.s gi-ving Union the sltort Gridders of the Week The first half was totally-· attack snuck ()Ver tile go1:1lline to dominated by Union. · Th:e give Hobart the lead for the first Statesmen fum:bled each of their time 14-9. first two possessions. The first This fine Union team did not ~ie though as Terranova put yardage but nothing deep. Defensive player for this week Reserve back Dave Ruff also- must be given to Tom Hood who added a pretty 14 yard run on a played an all-arqund solid game dday up the middle. Rich Romer and came up from his defensive crashed over from the I to rnake halfback position to make several the final score 28-22; fille stops against the Hobart ball time Union recovered the ball, they were stopped quickly· but Ben K.ronisli .. booted a 42 yard field goal to give Union the earJ:y lead. The field goal was the longest for Union in some time and cleared the uprights with yards to spare. Union then recovered another Hobart fumble on their -next seties of downs.' Andy Terranova then took advantage of . this opportunity wit.h: a brilliant 3~ yard run in which he cut 'back between two . together a picture 11-play 87 yard scor-ing drive. Running backs- ·· Rich· Romer and. Doug Napadano who burst up the middle for 27 yards were superb Looking back on the game, the bright spat was once 11gain the yoUng ·offensive backfield unit. This group ·seems to be getting better and developing more confidence with each game. Rich Romer ran for 109 yards today ort 33 carries and Doug Napadant> added 90 more tough yards against a rugged Statesme~ defen·se. However, with any young ballclub, y.ou must expect mistakes and Union made one- mistake too many to win this. football ga·me against the- resourceful George Davis. Hopefully, all of the mistakes will be out Qf .Union's system by next Saturday when the Dutchmen travel to nearby Williamstown, Mass~ to htngle with arch-rival Williams. I hope to see more Union fans this Saturday as a little more crowd s~.:~pport might have changed the outcome of the Hobart game. · carriers. The whole defense though played very well and cannot he faulted for any of the Hobart touchdowns which were set· up by Union mistakes. defender.s a la Steve Grogan to give Union its 9-0 lead. The extra point was missed as the snap from center was high. This has been a problem area for Union all season and could .he very costly at some future point as the Chicago Beats lost a game this season by missing the extra point. in this series. · Napadano scored the touchdown with a . ~ yard ·jaunt to enable Union to rec-apture the lead 15-14. Union seemed once again to be in control but another turnover then nailed the lid in their coffin. A high snap from center sailed over punter Jim Brown's head . deep in Union territory. The ball was finally doWned at the Union 6 yard line. From there, fullback Scott Vint casually cruised over from the 3 yard line to give Hobart the lead to stay 21-'15. Starting ,the second half, Union seemed to be in command as they would be receiving the football . with a 9 point lead. However, the tide quickly turned. as Bob Mathias fumbled the second half kickoff at the Dutchman 32. At In the final· chapter, another miscue gave Hobart an easy touchdown. A Jim Brown punt was blocked and seemingly run in for a touchdown. The play was called back to the 4S though Offensive player of the week was Andy Terranova who directed two superb touchdown drives in addition to scoring a touchdown himself. Honorable mention though must be given to running backs Rich Romer and Doug Napadano who again ran well. This column may begin to seem a bit repetitious but credit must be given where it is due. Tom Hood Booters Lose Two More by Scott Heilbtunn The Union College Soccer Team suffered two setbacks this. week as it ventured to Colgate University and hosted Trinity College. The weather·was cold and wet with a hlnd rain turning Colgate's field into a giant QlUd puddle. Combined with this was the fact that. the Garnet Hooters had not won .a game on the road all season. Union attacked first, and a series of good passes presented several gold.en scoring opportunities. John Kovacs blasted a hard liner that deflected off the bar and followed it in to score with 27;20 remaining in the first half. Colgate did not give up, and the opposition's attackers continued to press the offensive although they did not score. • The s_etond half t:.etlected the) · as the first, but with ball control AJu•~~<v. Field. the addition of the bad ·luck that has accompanied Coach Magee~s squad all season. On an indirect kick, Junior . Fullback Jim Manning successfully blocked the shot only to have the ball dellect past the outstretched hands of Goalie Mark Rekucki. This occurred with 20: 17 remaining in the second half. Although disheartened with Colgate's fluke goal, the Union team sought to break the deadlock. But, as fate intended, the Garnet were to be disappointed, A loose ball was accidently kicked in by Freshman Fullback Mike Mulpeter. With only 2:20 left in the game, Union attempted unsuccessfully to even the score. ihe final score read 2 to 1, but did not reflect the frustration that was evident in the faces of the Union team. Saturday's home game against· - trinity College was played in the ba-d w·eather that has accompanied the ~quad all ,season.· A key injury to Junior Fullback Pete Martini in the Colgate game promised to add pressure on the Union defense. Trinity struck first when Goalie Mark Rekucki . slipped while attempting to cut· down the angle. The score came with 8:56 remaining in the first · half an<! was promptly answered 1 minutes l~ter by the U nio11 offense. Sophomore Bob Hogan crossed a perfect pass to Junior transfer Dwight Smith to tie the score I to I. The second half reflected one of those costly mental breakdowns that have plagued the Garnet Booters all season., In the first 30 minutes of the half, Trinity scored 3 unanswered goals. The starting goalie, Mark Rekucki, had completed the first h.alf of the game ignoring a ,painfully bruised leg. Freshman goalie Doug Crawford had the difficult assignment of stepping in unprepared. He played admirably, althou.gh, on the whole, the Unilm squad did not. Rekucki 'Watched from the sidelines for the entire second half as he applied ice to his injury. . With 7:36 remaining in the game, the Garnet offense came to 'life in a manner that is remtmscent of the ECAC Championship team of 1975. John Kovacs received a near perfect pass fro~ halfback Mel Fuller, and fired it in to close the gap to within 2. Jim Manning, with less thall a minute to go, blasted the ball past the oppositions goalie, to make the score 4 to 3. But, it was too little and too late -to affect the 'outcome of the game as the Oarnet squad lest 4 to 3. lntramurals WOMEN'S CROSS-COUNTRY RUN: The one mile women's cross-country run was won by Kathy Lett in a time of 6:02. Kathy nosed out the second place finisher, Bonnie Sendzicki by 1 I 10 of a second. POOL TOURNAMENT: On Thursday, October 28 at 8:00 P. M • in Carnegie Hall the 2nd annual pocket pool tournament will be held. AU students, faculty and staff are welcome. trophies will be presented to the winners. Entries are due in the Intramural Office on or ·before October 28. For more information call 370- 6119. MEN'S CROSS-COUNTRY RUN: The 5th annual 2!4 mile cross-country run was won by Bruce Bonanno in the time of 13:01. Second place went to Keith Edwards ( 13: 18) while 3rd place went to Ralph Edgley in a time of 14:20. The team of Bonanno, Edwards and Edgley representing Sigma 'Chi took first place honors. It should be noted that Julie Seeger who was the only female running in the 2~ mile open race finished the course in an excellent time of 16:06.

• Page 20 Womens Volleyb.all The UCOLL Women's Volleyball team got off to an even start on October 15, against Schenectady Community College and Albany State. Coached by the newly acquited Kathy Schatz, the. Garnettes put it all together with some excellent serving by Debbie Malamud, Amy Juchatz:, a.nd Cathy \the Hustler\ Re.als. An amazing front line was the reason the points started adding up a:gainst SCC. Though all played well, special fnention must be given to Dawn Porto and Laurie Seidman for their great saves. The .result of the play being an expected win over sec. After a short rest, our star- studded ladies travelled down to the Great Danes at Albany. Ill- preparation proved to be the downfall of our ladies, as the home-court advantage proved beneficial to Albany. Ideal player.s of this game must go to Amy \the Spike\ Juchatz, and Linda Scrivani for their excellent spiking and serving. With a 1-1 record under our belts, we travelled down to Hudson Valley Com'munity College on October 21. Union's girls came out ready to tear up HVCC, and in the first game that is exactly what they did, to the tune of a 15-10 victory. The girls must have put a little too much effort into the game. because the next two games were dropped I 5-6, I 5-8, and the match was lost. Contributing factors to this team are the fact that there are five out of last years six starters returning on the team this year. They are Co-Capt. Lynn Bateman, Diana Gazzolo, Amy Juchatz, Cathy Reals, and Linda Scrivani, all who have been playing together for three years. The new blood added to this team is Katie Carew, Dawn Porto, Laurie Merrill, Diane Ronsin, Audrey Stein, Debbie Malamud; and Laurie Seidman. Only time and Kathy Schatz will tell how this FIRED up team will do, so come out and support our Garnet Girls. Anyone interested in discussing women's sports on campus are more than welcome to voice his or her opinions to Mrs. Sandy Vohr. Her office is located in the Old Gym, and her telephone number is 370-6286. Mrs. Vohr will be in her office five days a week, Monday through Friday from 2:30-4:30. She is there to answer your questions, so Campus, get off your butts. GET A KICK OUT OF ... \' \' 0 u CONCORDJENSIS, Wednesday, ·oct. 27, l9lo ' -~ '. ' . . ., r------------------------1 I 5.00 OFF I I I I I I ANY.FADED I I I I I I GLORY JEAN, I !JACKET, VEST,j I GAUCHO, I 1 I I JUMPSUIT OR I I I I SWEATER I 1 I I WITH THIS· I I I I COUPON I I I I I I I I GOOD THRU NOV. 2· I ~---~~--~~-----~~------~-J 428 State St. II FADEDt GLORY.t ' Tuesday and Thursday Till 9:00 l'-· BANMAMEAIOAPn LZ\' At momin~ announc \Jimm) Mississi pushing count b With a 1 at the I to ·Ford 76 intlli (with 9~ Early scored s South. Ford's South v Ford his hom Georgia. strongs went t cap turin and Ca s On N room 2 building, the con body wil this ye< previous courses < Educatio pro (orm turn to t Them :agenda Transcrit year by was fom transcrip impleme1 began it~ Winter complete early thh As of non-acad cannot i student ~ vote fori However that Oivi a total oJ voted d• things st needed Brownlee dissident Divisions passage < Advoc: expected will inc contact < contribut

