be far the ore last m lay. the' the his of the 11· / ... Volume 106, No. 16 March 2, 1977 .II •********~***************************• *:. Sp,ecial Issues Issue :* *~*********************************** -------------:rHE ARTS-·· ---------- Hugh Allen Wil$onponders the future of the Ar.ts. The Arts are at a turning point at Union. Anyone who does not know that this is significan.t to the _ development of the college as a whole fails to fully understand the nature and purpose ·of a liberal arts education,. and the function of a liberal arts college. An understanding of the plastic and performing arts should be essential to every \weH-munded\ human being, whether or not that person is a professional artist. lf Union were a liberal arts college, it would he very easy to define the role of the Arts here. We would be able• to recognize the fact that in a true liberal arts college all areas of academic endeavor are of eq.ual size and stature. However, Union ·College is not a liberal arts college, and to try ARTS DEV:ELOPME·NT ~ - - . ' . The following statement on- the future of the Department of the Arts .was written by the department as a whole and reflects the general plans for the future of the Fine Arts .at Union. It is part of i1 longer proposal which deals specifically with each division of the departmem (Art, _ Music and Drama). The faculty of the Department of the Ar.ts at Union College has involved itself over the last year and a half with I) a re- examination of its program and curriculum. 2) an investigation of the nature and qu~lity of its .present majors and alumni, and 3) a re-examination of its goals . With this behind us, it is possible to submit a reasoned proposal for the future. Basic to our pr6posals for the future are th~ following assumptions: I) that there is a growing awareness on the part of the college that arts students of distinction are being graduated from Union; 1) that an increasing number of students are applying to Union because it has ail arts program of enviable quality; 3) that students in ever-increasing numbers are changing from other disc;ipJines into the a·rts, and 4) that the program in Arts must be restructured in philosophy and program if it is to continue to improve, maintatntng and increasing the enthusiasm and level of ex<;ellence of both its students and faculty. We further assume that the Administration of the college will support this impfovemertt and \honing .. of our program. We assume that the enrollment at the college will stay at 2,000 and that there may be some change, however slight, in the ratio of men to women. addition to our majors, we serve between 800 and 900 tmdergraduates. The total enrollment in our courses for the year 197'2-3 was i.n the neighboFhoo~ of 950. This number wm probably be less in 1973-74 because we have severely limited enrollments in some courses that for].Uerly had unwieldy numbers of students. By the early ·1980's We hope tliat out faculty may be expanded from our present 8 members. This may be done in any of J ways, by full~time appointments, by use of the consortium or by use of adjunct faculty. This department has encouraged the membel's of the conSortium to tabulate their · total offerings in the .arts and to make this information available to all members. As of the writing of this report, however, all plans will be presented on the basis of what those faculty members now here can do most excellently and most efficiently, ' At this time the whole discussion of any prospect of an \Arts-Theater Complex\ or \Arts Center\ must he avoided. We feel strongly that the preper moment to talk about this is when the new program is. firmly underway, and when faculty, student and building needs that would be filled by new buildings become balanced at roughly the same time. This should not imply, 'however, that our present facilities are adequate to our present program. We feel that we have an \uniqueness'' and an extraordinary chance to produce a first-rate product at Unicm because o.f the very nature of this school in its balance between the arts and humanities on the one hand and the sciences on the other. Most of our successful At present there are 58 majors in the Arts. 36 full majors and 22 IDs. We would like to be able to take 'care of some 60 full majors by the. early 1980's. This is certainl,y a reasonable forecast. In . candidates for degrees in the Arts have, _.p to ,now, come either from students transferring from the sciences or those taking a double major. This atl'inity of science and the fine arts .is . ve.ry real here. lt demonstrates that common praise of elegance that is shared by music, art and drama and the sciences. This, we feel, accounts for the· uniqueness possible at Union. It is a vastly exciting prospect. Without detailing the 17 years of development of the arts program at Union, suffice it to say that the point of view of the department toward its role in the college as a whole has changed. In the beginning, before· the establishment of a Department of the Arts and the offering of a degree, there was only one man in e.ach of the 3 areas. At that time the services of this \non- department\ were almost exclusively directed toward the adding of a \gr;aceful;' dimension to the character of the Union unCfergraduate. With the founding of a Department of the Arts, however, more and more students were attracted to our courses and began to major in the department. When these majors were graduated from Union and left Union to pursue careers in the arts or to pursue graduate study in the arts, it Was obvious that a die had been cast. While we felt a certain pride in accomplishment, there was also a sense of unease that went with it. As a result we have contemplated and re- examined our double responsibility ~ to the major and to the non-major. We now feel that it. is our responsibility to strengthen and broaden both fundamental courses in the arts and at the same time the range of studies at the upperclass level. Because of the very nature of the fine arts ~ for instance, the ne.ed to get a command of particular techniques and vocabulary - we feel that the number of hours required for completion of the Arts Major must be increased. In short, the potential for C~mtinued on page 6 Edito;rial and label it on~ at this late date is ludicrous. Union College is primarily an engineering school with a sttong pre-med major and respectable social sciences. Little else. And if you don't believe it,. ask an'English major. To try and build any of the smaller departments to the same stature as the engineers is to attempt to turn Union into Yale, .both in terms of size and quality of personnel. This is economically impossible. Union is a small school, not a comprehensive college in a university setting. So now that the sciences are overdeveloped, what can the rest of the college do? If balance is not the answer, then it is safe to say that Union College .must adapt its philosophy accordingly: We are able to turn out the best students in only som4! fields, not in all. The smaller departments must take on the attitude that they will not get the best faculty. Hence, they will not draw the best students to the college. There is such a thing as a solid; small department; provided it_ limits itself. The problem of the Arts in relation to the rest of the College came into the forefront one year ago when plans for a visiting group of consultants were made public. Their thorough report, submitted this fall, was greeted by some strange double-talk by Union President Thomas Bonner: \It is not a document that charts what .the fut1,1re of the Arts program at Union will be ... But the broad outlines of a future direction are placed before us.\ The report placed the problems and inadequacies of the department squarely before the College: No dance program. No film program. A sense of disproportion with the rest of the college. A facilities recommendation was made. The proposed price was $10 million. Several faculty additions were suggested. Eve·ryone who bothered to read the entire report picked up on the expansion suggestions and immediately balked (especially the faculty, who saw, in these years of zero- growth policy, possible cut-backs in their own fields), The administration wanted the Arts Department to come up with its own plans for expansion, based on its own philosophy of education. the department complied, setting concrete goals for the 1990's ·before Dean Brownlee, Provost Entemann, and vice president Rasmussen. In addition to that, certain requests of an immediate nature were made. These requests included a gallery for: student art works, and an endowment of $500,000 for a visiting artists program. This was in September. It was not until yesterday that Brownlee and Entemann rejected the endowment plan for the Theatre Artists Pr0gram as being \out of proportion\ with the size of the department. Only one concrete action has come from the administration since ~he consultants' report was submitted. The coll~ge has hired, for one term, an Art Historian. This is a significant step and is in the words of Department Chairman Wilson \indispensable\ to the growth and development of the department. The Department of the Arts feels, and rightly so, that before any new facilities can be built, the faculty, staff, and programs needed to fill that facility must be created. This is the right attitude to take. There would be no greater fiasco than to create ·a dinosaur of an Arts Building with nothing in it. The great counter-question is .. why is this necessary?\ Aside from the fact that every comparable liberal arts college has a better developed Arts Program, the Arts have been stresse4 as an important aspect of _this school's educational aesthetic by President Bonner, Provost Entemann and Dean of Faculty Brownlee. The administration has made it clear that it wants the Arts to grow. The point of debate, it would seem, is in what direction. In the statement on this page the department says that it seeks to serve four kinds of students. It clearly cannot be all things to all students. A departmental philosophy must be set up so that it can attract the type of ~tudent that will best serve him~_clf, the department and the college. The department must knov. and recruit that kind of student. If the d~partment ha!'> established its philo~oph), then the administration must act on it; approving, rejecting or modifying them. Certainly the college i!'> going to have to readjust ih policy concerning admil'isions if it is to adequately stock the Arb ''pond\ with majors. (t is up to the administration now, and it would seem that they are batting .500. The Theatre Artisb Program was, in effect, defeated after 6 months of bureaucratic tie- ups. However, a temporary Art Historian was hired for one term, and the signs look good that the position on the faculty will become permanent. For the Arts to become a respectable part of the college, the policy of zero faculty growth tn ust be suspended, plans for action on the Arts Department proposals must be stated publicly, and positive fund-raising and candidate- recruiting policies must be implemented immediately. It is, however, sad that so few students really care one way or the other, and that very few faculty agree that the Arts are essential to Union College.

Page2 CONCORDIENSIS, Mar. '2, 1977 COMP EDS~-· ----------~----- ....... Edito:rial Frol)l the point of v:iew of students forced' to enroll in them and educators forced to teach them, Comprehensive Education courses are a ~ravesty; they are a pathetic waste of time and money. Not only ts the program non-productive, it is, in most cases, counterproductive. H?wever, Comp-~ds have bee~ attacked frequently enough this year, we have no des1re here to discuss for the nth time the demerits of the system. Rather, we urge that the program be dissolved and subsequently, replaced by an entire new system. ' We have learned that Deans Brownlee and Potts are working on some type- ?f re~lacement for Comp-Eds. Wishing to avoid the programmatlc m1s~s7 of ~heir predecessors, they are progre11sing slow~y, but SUrely While mamtaining a strict adherence to the current reqmrements. We praise their efforts wholeheartedly, hut we also wh_oleheartedly. hope that they will institute their new program as qUickly as possible .. Too many students, especially this year it seems, have lost • opportumty to enroll in classes that they really wanted to because ~hey were forced to enroll in Comp-Eds. Also, from a monetary point of view, is it right for Union to force stu?ents to ~pend $2800 (seven Comp-Eds. at $400 each) on cour~es ~htch have ~n many cases, acc?r~ing t? both students and faculty, little educatiOnal value? Combmmg this observation with the fact that over 50 % of the s.tudent body ·~ on some type of financial aid, the effects of the program are truly appalling. In conclusion, we wholly support the efforts of Deans Brownlee and Potts to ~is~antle a program whose past value lay only in its no~elty and 1ts mtent. Hopefully, a new system will be effected before the Class o_f '~I ~steps foot on the campus because, no matter how one argues, 1t 1s the students who are bein~ taken for a ride. Commentary .. . . _Another Perspective by K~NNETH L: SCHICK feel that the 4 year college/ ·somewhat predictable successes Cha_arman,. Physu:s Dept. university experi.ence bas· been d ~ ·1 - an · 1a1_ures at both. My own very 1 would like to express some ll\Uch less satisfactory when it strong feelings an: -that it is the personal views on the topic . 0 f comes to meani·ngful and responsibi.lity of a. college _faculty \wh(tt replaces CED?\ or .. What substantia-l broade-ning of based on 1ts knowledge ohts own shmlld. be the nature and extent horizons beyond the relatively strengths, t11e coliege's ·special of college requirements for narrow single subject ho~ons, · · student body and its sense -of the graduation'?\ This is, of course, both ap_Pr?pdate ed·u<:ati()nal I suppose that the usual way of understandable ~rid predictable.. objetttves ~o make the basic introducing the subject is as Most· college faculty do not have program deCisions. reasonable as any other that I the \professional expertise, · EDUCATIONAL CHOICE know. It goes something like this: dedication·, and encouragement My- 'own.· preference is to' create Most faculty and students agree from peers and administration\to programs which · · ha':ve some that for many st1.1dents the 4 year explore both the goals . of the internal coherence and are less college/university experience is horizon broadening and the like .tr~emis_, · wliere there is satisfactory insofar as it addresses means required to reach them.· relative(y f.-:ee cboice :and one itself to education or training in a F r . h' h 1 • creates one's own meai. My sense specific, well de~ned subject , ex{>laiu t~e sr;:~;ce t ~t th: ~!th~~ is that tbe expert ·chef is. better matter e g chemtstry French able to put together a meal ·where econo . m' t\cs ... c, t'v.!'l enoin. e. e'n··ng e·tc' ge, n_etal se.nse of un_ happiness with 11 h . ~::>· b d a t · e elements ate properly F h ' . . ' · ' . roa emng\ programs., 1 d h _ o! t ~ most _part, the college/ TRADITIONAL SOLUTIONS re ate . t an a novice who has untverstty professor has the . ·, . . · . · , . . been trained ort •'Big Macs\ and professional expertjse, dedication, on~o~~~~ns ~~ tl~~cal~y beei a~ assorted equivalent· food fare. and encouragement from peers · . -. 0 0 _ e. 0 owtng po e~. Fur(her, I Would like to see an and administration to do more ( 1 ) St~dents wlll. . have thetr ambitious program rather than a than a merely acceptable job in broa?~mng forced upon them b~ token one; his/her specialty subject area. requ_t~mg that they take a The kinds .of educational On the other hand many of us specified number of . \re~~at\ objectives which I have in mind .departmertt!ll courses. ·m subJe.ct include: (I) Scientific literacy. A Faculty Dean on Comp Eds areas outside of their areas of graduate of Union should he able _ major concentration. This is the to umletstand · (and be able to \distribution\ requi~ement vote on issues related to) such approach. It has the advantage of haYing faculty always teach what areas as energy, 'envitonment, · p o,ll u ~ i o n , a n d ge ne t i c by PAULA P. BROWNLEE, Dean of Faculty l he campus is alive with issues. lhe Senate agenda promises to be bursting for its next meetings. 1 faculty members and students (in droves) tell us how disaffected they are with our present Comprehenstve Education and ask when will a \new\ General Education scheme be forth-' coming'! they know best. It has the engineering. (2) A familiiuity with disadvantage of often not being the c. ultu_ ral . and Hter_ary _heritage • some time seeking out student should acquire over th. eir acco· m' p· anx'ed by \'lea·r - . .· · \ · or of the West. Hetc::,- the road to informationoncurricularchanges four years at Union. About the satisfactorY, ··educationid wisdon is traversed by'disch~!ion from Deans and Presidents of only attribute 1 don't remember objectives. ln addition, at many and by enormous amounts of other colleges and universities, l seeing listed was a sense of humor institutions, special (watered reading associated ·with the was struck by the predominance - but everything else was there I down) courses are often created I his article is planned· to get out some ot the thinking behind the scenes, some ot the imple- menta t1 on problems and procedures ahead, but is not a curricular plan itself (Campus Chronicle \scooped\ us on that last Friday, anyway). 1 seek also to convey my belief that, even among other serious issues, the question ol General Education is of supreme importance to our College. Curricular Demand~ No matter what other steps we may take to improve Union College, if our curriculum is not what we want it to be - and most important, if faculty and students are not convinced of its quality, importance and interest, then we are building our College on a flimsy foundation indeed. A student's curriculum is built around two frameworks - the major and the required liberal component (dubbed informally, pro tern, General Education). Our majors are strong. and, although some departments are planning changes, I shall not discuss discipline fields here. Over a . year ago the faculty began an examination of the ·overall curriculum. General Faculty meetings were held and the EPC came up with at least one proposal last year. Summer came along with questions still unresolved, so this year's EPC started again - though with a wealth of material, including individual faculty members' carefully reasoned proposals and ideas on which to build. I am deeply impressed with the intensity of interest of so many faculty and students in the funda- mental question of what attributes should be developed in a Union student and how four years here -can best be spent to achieve that ideally educated person. In contrast, at the recent annual Association of American Colleges meeting (a gathering of close to I 000 Presidents and Academic Deans), where I spent of prosaic answers. In spite of am sure! The important second to satisfy the requirements. development of the philosophical, media excitement about apparent step was to see hoW existin_g 0 11 · h social, and psychological vera • my sense Is t at pe~spectiv.es which form the declining writing ability of departmental courses, plus some programs of this type are rarely framework on which an .educated students, grade inflation, and . good Comprehensive Education educationally exciting, but that person understand .. s. (:l) Art and reports of curricular \reform courses and other -possible future they do prod·uce a· t modes t 1 1 · ·- · · · • · - eve s, M_ usic~ For so many··. ' families, actual curricular change seemed . courses, could' be .grouped to some deg· .. ee of hort'z · · · • · · · ' 0 n mvolvement with serious · music to be largely superficial. Thus, an re_ quire all $tudents to try· to broadent'ng (2) Broadent'n 'II · · · · g W! and art is so very modest t.hat it old-time-\English composition'' is develop these qualities of mind. be achieved by creating a set of being introduced, but the deeper As this. was done, groupings were p · 1 1 t d h seems to me that a college must s ecta corre a e courses w ose play a significant role in both question of the quality of writing attempted that would simplify the primary functions will be to required throughout four years in administration of the scheme and exhibit the complex cross exhposure and ap:preciation 11 · ed · · · 1 f · f · en ancement. From rny own a courses remam undtscussed. stdl yte d a . a1r range o. chotces connections_ among the disciplines . . Distribution requirements by perspectives . the ines·capable Departmental categories seems to ;C:onchision is tha:t a prospective outweigh, by far, other schemes. college graduate O\.lght to be When 1 asked about liberal \physically prevented\ from educational objectives thus receiving the diploma (or perhaps achieved, the answers paled it might have a symbQl to beside the thoughtful and careful re_pre~nt_ Philistine). -unl~ss there discussions taking place at Union. has - been - a- rion-trivial and extended· interaction-with-the arts. Prerequisites for Construction A curriculum can be built only when both educational objective§. and faculty enthusiasm, ability and commitment are taken into account. There are other variables to be built in also, and, believe me, as each variable is introduced, . the difficulty of constructing a satisfactory curriculum mounts. It is relatively easy to criticize intelligently a curriculum proposal; to build constructively without forgetting any essential component is frighteningly difficult. Nevertheless, this is indeed the task the doughty EPC with its even more valiant sub-Committee on General Education has set itself. I am reminded .of a faculty meeting I conducted last year at Douglass College where the curriculum committee was to lead a discussion on changing the general requirements. The discussion centered around the need for students to understand a range of discipline methodologies - it ended an hour and a half later with one of the Social Science Departments stating that their discipline had no \body of knowledge\ and, so, how could students be required to learn selected \content?\ Division of Thought and Teaching Our own EPC sub-committee came up with a range of modes of learning abilities that it felt each Dean Paula Brownlee will she salve the comprehensive education mess? for students in each category. (general education), while at the · Still to be tackled is the same time teaching some -of the question of '' 1 oa ding'' subject matter of several different characteristics on each -disciplines. It has the advantage department. For example, to for the faculty of pushing them construct a hypothetical example, beyqnd the intellectual confines of supposing the History Depart- their usual daily fare and ment now offers three upper class requiring that they ask questions Comprehensive Education and see relationships in new and courses which are taken on the different ways. lt has the ave~ge by 100 students per year. advantage, for the students, of Under a new distribution require- demonstrating on a continuing ment, supposing any · of the basis, both how rich and cottrses in History would satisfy fascinating the discipline both of the \perspectives on other interrelations are, While at the times and cultm;es\ requirement, sarne time teaching substantial then we might predict that pieces of solid subject matter. The History could have anything from disadvantages are, often; that the 1000 students (if half of all second professors are teaching in areas and thirq year students take two not familiar to them and that the History courses rather than Philo- courses tend to become sophy, Modern Languages etc.) to superficial. zero students (if they all choose Union College has tried both Philosophy etc., etc.); If course the distribution and the general Con~ued on.Page 7 education appmach~s; It has had ·~ order, for the~e to be-non- trivial educationai benefits, there must be inore than one or two courses for each of I, 2, and 3; for example, a- total .of at least 12 courses does not seem unreasonable or impractical. Norma'lly, each student would take at le;tst 4 of the 12 satisfying the re_quirements of the major. This -Would leave perhaps 8 additional courses needed for graduation. These could be specially created cross-di~Ciplinary courses, some regular departmental course or some of the best ones \from the present CED program. Decisions would have to be made on a course-by- course basis as to which ones perform the functiolls demanded of them by the educational objectives. I think that administration of such a program would benefit from its structural simplicity and from its use of commonly and relatively well understood categories. I find this an advantage\ when compared to a \modes of thought\ or some other very sophisticated device for making subject matter distinctions. The preliminary 12 course program outlined above satisfies several key objectives of any horizon broadening program, while, at the same time, incorporating some assets ·of both the distribution · and general education perspectives. - G A! The:: desigli rep lac as th gene.r: major h~uncl specja sharp I by a facult: never teachi progr1 their stren!! de par Sev instru the 1 Collel acade the C to th premi co her, diveQ \tlw 11re l conve of .stt the variot to deJ mode intetlt prese1 for fi Ed. f type insuff disti-il majm This assun ten ) cat.al< A currie one enteri appe~ catal< fresht Cent( them ex:pec COUTS pro jet -·-· s b S1 Ar new or ali shou and assi.it critic A shou retlec goal! unfo goah and ''faih prog Hi slow iOwa tradi tacul gove cons This retle• Educ resul kind Tn Cc phys scier sepa trenc smal sepa

e wn the is an ind to tic to of the cal the ted ies, it oth be to rts. for 12 em uld jor. 8 for be of of an a her for .. CONCORDIENSIS, Mar. 2, 1977 COMP EDS Gen. Ed Over the Years By DA. VE J»OTTS Ass't. Dea_n of Faculty The Comp, Ed. Program was designed. ·in the mid' 1960's to replace distribution requirements · as the means for encouraging general .education outside ·· the major. Legislated in 1965 and b-unched i.n. the. fall of 1966, this specjal area of the curri9ulum was sha,rply t:ritiCised from the start by a substantial portion of the faculty. Some of the critics; pevertheless, made notable teaching contributions to the program; others .turned most <>f theii: efforts to building and strengthening the curriculums for dep~~:rtmental majors. RATIONAL:~',: Several years after Comp. Ed. instruction began, a rationaie for the program appeared in the College catalogue. Unipn's total academic program and especially the Cornp, Ed. sector, ·according to this ·statement, \rests on the premjse that aU· learning is coherent and complimentary not divergent and diffused •.. \ Thus ••tne divisions' between subjects l'l.re largely arbitrary devices of convenience, not fixed boundaries of .study.\ Seeking .to \illu$trate the relationships between the various academic disciplines\ and to demonstrate tllilt \t'he different modes of intellectual inquiry interlock to form the structure of present knowledge and the basis for future learning,\ the Comp. Ed. Program ·was to strive for l'l. type of intellectual maturation insufficiently achieved· through distribution · requirements, the major,' or a free elective system. This same statement and its assumptions can be found, almost ten years later, in our current catalogue, A . fully developed' Comp. Ed. curriculum was formulated just one step ahead of the class entering in the fall of 1.966 and appears in completed form in the catalogue for 1968-69. Two freshman courses, one ip. each Center, were taught on common themes. Sophomores were expected to tal<e two . options courses, juniors a two~term project, and seniors a third Co·mmentary. : options course plus a disputed questions course. PROGRAM REVIEWED Just a year later, however, the Comp. Ed. Board launched a major review of Comp. Ed. In its report of M.arch I, 1970, the Board suggested why such a study was n~cessacy. The Comp·. Ed. curriculum, they noted, had evolved to a point where it was \very differe11t from the, ·original progralll as envisioned by its founders.\ Such changes had left ••ma.ny members of this community ...• no lo_!:~ger able to say with confidence and clarity what the principles and objectives. of Comprehensive Education are.\ The program was found to be \significantly improved\ during its first ·five years, but the Board apparently sensed that there were many non-catalogue-reading skeptics and unreconstructed wiginal critics still out there. QppQ~ing what they !!aW as the ''divisive\ infh.lenQes of a department-based admini~:Jtr~~:tive and. intellectual structure, the Board argued for at least a countervailing sector of the curriculum to foster \broadening\ of the student's mental maturation in ways rarely, if ever, achieved. by · distribution requirements. Faculty and students must seek breadth together, it was argued, in courses specially designed for that purpose. Comp, Ed. was identified as a sector of the curriculum where faculty and student~ could e:xperiment, where they had a ''vehicle <>f significant pedagogical innovations.\ To the critics who argued aU along that reach in these directions was exceeding grasp 1 the Board admitted such goals . were \not . easy to achieve in practice.'' As what might be termed educational existentialists, however, the Board found Comp. Ed.'s objectives \worth striving after.\ And they went on to propose a less restrictive and t11ore elaborate structure of comp. ·Ed. courses and requirements. ItECENT TROUBLES Despite this strong affirmation and the many curricular changes derived, from it,. Comp. Ed. was experiencing sufficient difficulties by 1973-74 for the Board to consider ways of revising the program once again. This time emphasis was placed on reducing the complexities of the system and strengthening the distribution principle for Comp. Ed. courses. By then it was clear fhat Comp. Ed.'s resources in terms of . College finances .and faculty commitment were insufficient for achieving its high ideals. Unable Continued on Page 6 Dean Pott$, member of EPC sub-committee . News Analysis : Da·te Cancell·ed In a startling. maneuver, the All-College. Senate has cancelled its scheduled meeting that was to be held tomorrow in the Old Chapel at 4:30. The meeting was cancelled at the behest of President Thomas Bonner. Many students 'a.nd faculty involved with · the College Governance s~ructure felt that Dr. Bonner had to postpone the Senate meeting in order to avert an overwhelming defeat in the issue that he h!ls placed on as the cornerstone of his administration, N.ESCAC - Division I. In its place, the next Senate meeting is tentatively scheduled for Thursday, March lOth, at 4:30. Here, the issue of Athletics is finally expected to be resolved. However, debate on any athletic proposal is expected to be long and rancorous, meaning that the proposal to create an Internal Educational Foundation will most pwbably be tabled until next term . There is, however, considerable sentiment that Dr. Bonner does not even want the Senate to vote on the athletic issue. More than one faculty source has speculated that should Dr. Bpnner lose in the Senate, his position as campus leader will be threatened, . his model for the philosophy of Union College symbolically rejected, and his position as president, tenuous at best. This past week Union has been bombarded with. political activity and rumors of a nature rarely witnessed on this campus. Several students and faculty have intimated that Bonner will resign if the Senate and/or Trustees votes to remain in NESCAC and not go Division I. There is another rumor that trustee Kenneth Whalen has called certain members of the College community informing them that the Trustees will vote NESCAC and go Division I. However, Concordy has not been able to verify either of the above rumors and it is known that Trustee Whalen has written a letter to the Task Force and the campus trustees dated last November advocating leaving NESCAC but remaining m Division H. M ore co ncr e t e t h a n unconfirmed rumors has been the frenetic political activity of the last couple of weeks. It has included a three-part interview by Bonner with the Schenectady Gazette, a Benner interview on W M H T and the mailing of the Sports .Illustrated article to all the trustees by Bonner with the inaccuracies uncorrected. Other pro-Division !-leaving NESCAC partisans have engaged in political maneuvers. A letter widely sent out to students, and faculty by Professor Craig, Chairman of Division IV (Engineering) and the only division to voice a majority pro- Division 1-NESCAC sentiment states of the Task Force Report, \the least we can do is vote it down, ... and concludes by saying, ••uniori needs B.onner a helluva lot more than Bonner needs Union,\ (lending credence to the charge that Bonner will resign should he lose on this issue). Craig charges that U rtion .must ga Division I and Ned Harkness will resign if we don't. Coach Harkness, away at the Oswego game, was unavailable for comment. Craig goes an to speculate that certain alumni will be offended (such as Zamboni- giver Freihofer) if we don't go Division I, and the .support for an Arts Building will evaporate. Another faculty member has labelled the letter \ludicrous.\ Still another political document will be issued (as of Tuesday night) tomorrow by the Development Office. Bcb Rasmussen, head of Development, is said to be preparing to release a report containing the opinions of other key alumni who support Union's ascending into Division I and exit from NESCAC. Finally, on the pro-Division I ledger, some students are rum<Jred to be preparing a petition to be signed by stu<lents in support of Division I. The factions against going Division I and staying in NESC AC have not been politically dormant. Last week, an 11-page Philosophical Document criticizing Bonner's educational Student Committee Member Speaks by R .. M. BERGMANN, often repeated to the ·pdint where. model as anathema to Union's tradition as a place of liberal education was sent to the entire taculty, Administrators, and students on College committees. The writers of the document, all students, include the President of the Student Body, the Vice- President, the Junior Trustee, the editors of Concordy, a member of the Student Life committee, a member of the Planning and Priorities Committee, and a member of the Admissions Committ(;!e. Other students have criticized this document as a work by a group of students whose influence far exceeds their numbers. . Member of EPC . Sub•Conimittee on Gen. Ed. each specialty becomes an An .important function of the extremely small field, new General. Educati~n Program unconnected to the test. The or any proposed curricular reform confusion resulting from an should · be to facilitate dialogue abundance of unassimilated and force us to subject our own information leads me to wonder if assumptions about education to the explosion of information critical analysis. might prove to be a curse instead A General Education Program of a blessing. What is needed in should clearly and consistently education today is the reflect the primary educational restructuring of knowledge intO goals. of the College. It is simple, integrated and flexible unfortunate that our eductional patterns which are broadly goals at this time seem cont1icting applicablt: to wide ranges of and contradictory, perhap& the phenoin.ena. This need is ''failure\' of the Comp Ed dramatized by Peter Drucker iR · · h · The Age of Discontinuity: program m part. pomts tot Js, \Th m. st probable Higher education changes ~ . 0 · . . . . · · assumption ts that every smgle slowly because of 1ts onentat1on 1 . ..h ld d · . t' - · 1 .• one o t e o emarca wns, towards the perpet-uatwn o d.. . r d f 1 · · · tradition and the notion that ISCIP mes an ~cu ties IS ~omg I . It ' ( t. 1 t to becom.e a barner to learmng as acu y groups essen 1a o · Th r. ) I 11 I . ·I well as understandmg. e .act governance re y on co ega h h'ft' f consent (interest-group politics). t at ':\e ~re s. 1 mg .. rom . a Th . · t. t' · l' . t' · Cartes1an v1ew of the umverse, m 1s aspec o spec1a 1za 1on ts . . h b reflected in the .present General which thedaccent as een on Education proposal, and, as a parts an elements, to a result, I perceive that the needed configuration view, With the emphasis on wholes and patterns, kind of perspective is lacking. challenges every single dividing Traditional Means Challenged line between areas of study and Conventional. eaucation in knowledge.\ physics, biology, etc. or the social What 1 am trying 'to show is sciences treats these subjects as that any new Gen Ed program separate domains. the general will have consequences and create trend being that increasingly smaller suh~domains become repercussions lhat we will have to separate ~ciences. The process is recognize in the future. This questioning may take the form that Alvin Toftler asks: \Do not the demands of the future imply an even greater demand for a 'generalist', with regard to process rather than information'!\ The New Proposal The Subcomlnittee on General Education and the Educational Policy Committee realize that there is no one best or right answer in devising a Gen Ed program. We tried to work within what we believed to be the framework and resources of the College; in doing so we thought in terms of approaches which would have a high probability of success. Several aspects of the new program will alleviate problems created by the Comp Ed system tor address those with which the Comp. Ed system was not concerned). I} The new Gen Ed program will, during the Freshman year, deal with skills of communication, both written and oml. We must realize however, that the acquisition of these skills is an ongoing process and the College~ as a whole must be comm1tted to such a program. 2) The Freshman course (to be called the \Preceptorial in Liberal Learning\) will .provide a shared in'telle¢tuaJ. base for students regardless of their intended field of study. 3) The advising of liberal learning, outside of the major, will be integrated within th~ Gen. Ed curriculum. 4.) The middle years distribution will alleviate some administrative problems .of the Comp Ed System by permitting students to take departmental t:ourses towards Gen Ed credit and allow 4 courses towards the major to count· towards the distribution requirement. In addition, students who change majors will not have to alter their Gen Ed requirements. 5) Finally, the Gen Ed program will address the problem of faculty rewards for their participating within the program. It 1s my hope that the new Gen Ed program will be viewed in a positive light and that it present to the students' attention, in concentrated form, some of the questions that man has raised throughout his history and then tried to resolve, rephrase or learn to live with. Further, it shouTd make for an educational system that respects, as Lewis Mumford says, in its fullness and wholeness, life's main attributes; balance and growth, freedom and choice, persistence and v~riation, ad~ption and insurgence and above all, the tendency to self- actualization and self- transcendence: Finally, there 1s Bob MacNamara, sportscaster for Channel 6, who predicted on the news that Union will go Division I on the order of the trustees disregarding a Senate vote (if there is one). Thus. the campus abounds with rumors and speculat.ion. Proponents of remammg in NESCAC msast that going Division I is incongruent with our Educatio~l Philosophy. Besides, there have already been acknowledged abuses in the financial aid and admission process. These proponents 1 maintain that they would be aggravated by going Division I. Proponents of going Division I maintain that there is no abuse of these programs and the move will broaden Union's name as a college and .thus enhance our prestige. What will happen in the continuing story remains to be seen.

I ... '' 'I ,, ·i _P_a.;;;..ge_4 ___________________ __;C..;:_ONCORDIENSIS, Mar. 2, 1977 ---------------.....- ...... --.------- ATHLETICS------------------------ Editorial After many months of debate, the issues of Union's continued participation in NESCAC and Division I hockey will come before the Senate for a final decision before the end of this term. The President· has agreed to abide by that verdict. Though there is some speculation that the Soard of Trustees might want to exercise their prerogative to reserve for themselves the ultimate determination of the College's policy with respect t() these questions, it seems highly doubttul that the Board would overturn the Senate's decision on any issues, like Division I and N ESCAC, which have been the ·cause of so much di,visiveness and bitter feelings. The dispute bas mged for too long and has run the gamut from rational and intellectual discussion to impassioned and rambunctious bickering. Arguments (on the whole) have been carefully articulated and proffered to the campus community. In light ot our knowledge .of Union and the College's past and all of the developments; evidence, and lines of reasoning that have arisen in the recent past we must reassert our firm belief that the College should maintain its affiliation with NESCAC and not move to Division I hockey. There are some very definite benefits to be accrued from the hockey program. Specifically, it would be a major boon with respect to stimulating inter-relationships and amity between the College and the neighboring community. The congruency between the rise of hockey and Union's most successful local business drive has not been accidental. Similarly, athletics can be used as a lever to increase alumni interest and involvement. The concomitant product is money. These benefits, however, already have been realized within Division II play, so why step up the athletic commitment'! The College is an educational institution designed for the enlightenment of the student body, not for the entertainment of the townspeople. Money, ot course, is a different matter. There is little doubt that hockey (successful hockey that is) will generate local revenue. The correlation beyond local people and area alumni, however, is not established. Moreover, no quality educational institution can afford to sacrifice its academic integrity and educational philosophy for cash returns. Financial considerations cannot be ignored, but when the College must put on a show to raise funds, the theory of private, small school education (and Union) is proven worthless and bankrupt (in every sense of the word). I he College must maintain marketability. Athletics, unlike what the President and the Public Relations Office would like us to hehcve. are not the only salable commodity. The truth .is, however, that they have voluntarily and purposefully attempted to tie our market attractiveness solely to hockey and have ignored the attnbutes ol the College, Wer.e these people working as diligently on sclliHg Union on its academic merits, the contention that hockey is the key to the College's future success would be empirically proven to be as vacuous as it really is .. I he claim that fiockey will earn Union a national name is totally tallacious. !\he Ivies did not earn their respective reputations through sports; RPl was known for enl!;ineering long -before that school developed a hockey program. Amongst some of the other D1vis1on I schools - UN H, Clarkson, St. Lawrence, Northeastern, H.C .. and P-rovidence - there is nothing ·more than a wealth of mediocre colleges at best, few of which (if any) have any sort of national rlame. N ESC A C. lor all of its inconsistencies, faults, and idiosyncracies, is where Union's athletic program belongs. Despite the Conference's mandatory and our academic restrictions, there have been excessive· t-ransgressions of both financial aid and admissions policies. These abuses. moreover. have occurred under the noses of and have been condoned by people in the administration. To think that these policy violations will not proliferate to even greater proportions is nothing less than naive. !\he President himself has known of many of these abusive action:> and has done everything in his power to prevent the truth about such incidents from surfacing. The College's chief administrator has prevaricated about many things associated with the hockey program and has covered-up for similar activities on the parts of others. Union is a small school and adheres to a philosophy of a liberal arts education. A major sports program would be a direct contradiction .to the essence of the College and an anathema to all that is implicit in the concept of a small college. Regardless of the President's desires, Union is not a small university. The College, as such, has limited resources in terms of physical energies. If people were to work on academic development as fervently as they do on athletics, Union would be a far stronger and superior institution of learning than it is today. Perhaps, then Union would be the type of academic giant that could afford the side attraction of major athletics, without damaging the quality of the school. The best image that can surround Union is not one that has mushroomed from a hockey program. The path of abandoning NESCAC and going Division I is rife witb difficulties that will not tare well for the academic institution. The College, going Division I, might as well announce that it has decided to opt for athletic rather than intellectual advances and enrichment. That message, which is implied in the wish to advance to Division I, will not be missed by educators. prospective students, and high school college counsellors. Sports must be maintained as a subsidiary to the school, not vice versa. Besides this. there may be scheduling problems and the creation ot gross disproportions within the athletic department (a la RPI) that would result from a move to Division I. The management of the present hockey program should be portentous enough to discourage us from developing that program any further. The President's policy on hockey is symbolic of his overall plan and aims tor Union. The bottom line of all his proposals, Division I and leaving NESC AC included. is the concept of how to improve the College's image without improving the College. Hockey's advocates. however. not only fail to understand that they are planning something that will damage the school, but they do not even seem to realize that the image they think hockey will generate is elusive at best and probably deleterious to Union's already ailing academic reputation. rhe best name that Union could (and should) develop for itselfis that of a small; top-quality academic institution that, in this time of financial and educational retrenchment. reaffirmed its educational commitment in the face of the Siren-like temptation of athletics and chose academic ascendency over athletic expansion. Commentary : ·The Future of Union ROBERT B. J.l.ASMUSS)l.:N, Vice President for College Resourees Concordy has been carrying numerous · articles and letters concerning Union Athletics lately, many of which have stirred my desire to wdte. A recent article, \Senate Debates Athletics,\ quoted directly and in summary form some of my comments to the College Senate. The reporting was generally accurate; however, mo!St of the context from which the quotes were taken was missing and the relationship of athletics to other programs not covered. My personal feelings are that Union should make its own decisions regarding ;the levels at which each of its teams will compete; that we are more than capable of directing and controlling our own affairs; that we are an excellent college and should be as good as we can be in everything that we do. Given these points, I personally see little benefit m a c/o the Editors: AN OPEN really boils down to a matter of confidence confidence - that we know wh~t we are doing, and that we are doing it well'. Athletic quality is compatible with academic quality, and exciting athletics get us some attention and a chance to show how good we are academically. We are an excellent college and shou·Id have the confidence to welcome attention. Intern~l vs. External Another point. Your article juxtaposed quotes from me with some from .P.rofessor Underwood-both following the heading ''Internal vs. External\-which was an unfortunate and inaccurate choice. My activities have been: centered on _ the . meaningful involvem~nt of Union alumni &nd friend~ with the heart . of the College; the academic programs. To encourage such involvement, we often start with promotion through athletics. This is one .of STUDENTS VOTE. ~~R l-Y.; BOOSTERS DON'T. - 'Et::? 7 from a member of the Union College community relationship such as the one we currently have with NESCAC, and the question of Division I answers itself. One thing which cannot be over-emphasized is that unless we have something to say about our educational programs there is no benefit in calling attention to ourselves. particularly through the media. or trying to get alumni and friends involved with the College. The point is that we are an excellent college with unique academic strengths whic'h can be brought to bear to out maximum advantage only it we have opportunities to call attention to them. In this context. the fear expressed in the Task Force Report that athletic publicity will somehow overwhelm our academic reputation was particularly disturbing. Unless we are weak. whi·ch we are not, this will not happen. It the surest starts on a path toward the end of being better known as an educational institution. Your summary of my remarks implied this, hut didn't state it strongly enough. Athletics have particular appeal in our society. They receive broad news coverage, and combine the facets of excellent performance with competition. Competition, incidentally, will be an ever-growing factor in our Admissions picture as we move toward 1991. when the number of graduating high school seniors in New York will be some one-third less than it was last June, and the situation in all the <Northwest will be nearly as bad. Without quar.reling with Professor Underwood's concern about the quality ol students. I submit that quantity will indeed ·be an increasing problem. In Alumni Affairs a:ctiV'ity. we have growing levels of involvement, particularly in number of clubs; number, variety and quality of club events, and number of .individuals involved. The major factors in this are incr~ased staff tirne devoted to the activity and the number of alumni Ieade.rs involved. But -the ekcitement hockey and other sports have generated have given us enjoyable events for eltlbs to attend, bri(!ging many alumni back to campus. ln 75-76, one alumni club organized a .trip to Schenectady to &ee a hockey game. In 76·77, eight such trips \vill ' be made before the season ends, and four other clubs organized. meetings in «onjunctian with away games being held in their areas. Several of these alubs ·were ··virtually defunct before theSe activities occurred. · . Having · had one successful; event, dubs become enthusiastic · about developing other programs.· This. year, in addition to the above functions, a total of 70 other meetings have been or will be ·held, the majority of which will involve faculty or administrative speakers talking about our academic programs. In a similar vein, the Alumni Council has scheduled three instead of the usu11.l two meetings to handle the increased volume of alumni activity, and these meetings involve more _and tnore educational program content, For example, the February 5 meeting involved a lengthy discussion of the Task Force Report, but also involved seminar meetings with th~ Dean .of the Faculty, · the Director of Admissions, the Placement Director, and campus tours with stucient ~uides. Funds In development activity, it is axiomatic that support is based on understanding, and growing support on growing involvement. Union College. has one of the best records of alumni and friends' annual support in the country. Ninety percent of this support is given without restriction or any kind. There are few' greater votes of confidence than the giving of an unrestricted gift •. In a .January 12 .editorial, 'toneordy stated, \Now if all those who donate for the good of the school would contribute to Union's sorely needed academic development~ we might just be able to a.chieve a level of outstanding academics (and have a deserved academic reputation) and improve the entire school, not just hockey and athletic programs.\ lt doesn't work that way at all. Again-very little annual support- money is designated by the donor. Most is given to be used as the College thinks best. It is given without restriction, in confidence and pride. Our Annual Business Campaign illustrates how identification and pride build support, and there is no doubt that hockey has had an important impact on this campaign. The specific reasons that the Annual -Business Campaign has more than doubled in the past two years have been the doubling of volunteers from 35 to 70, the dedication of the volunteer leadership. and the amount of stafl time devoted. to· it. But, and it is a very strong \but the excitement generated by our hockey program, and community involvement as spectatdrs, has given us a tremendous boost in recruiting and motiva-ting volunteers, and helped create an atmosphere of exciternent and involvement. And this year we have an entirely new component of' this campaign - tbe - profe! campl from solicit all of I v coupl· B-ruce thoug Was f issue. He opini• FQrce cared grven the ~ Arts, and itnpo howe Arts- camp Honn waq \ ... It the repo1 be. C• a-th!e1 Force atten of th cJQSll cxpc CflCOl call aJum typic admi I her' these he i~ lind. fo f!!'-' we . .: to as whic caret right right assu1 used In my c take CXCC] lcctu we orga invol quali rcsot prog I. a Ct ll VI Pre: Ath lea! disc exp 1 is ma-1 arg1 wid Tru sub Sell dev \a uni ·he aSS I wit em mo reg rep ad' ere hm sue Ca

_P_a..;_g<_' ~4 __________________ __:C;_:_ONCO RDI ENS IS, Mar. 2, 1977 ATHLETICS ~ ' :·: . . . . :.1 ~ ·,. .· . '. .. ..I~. -.. ~·' ' .. ·. . . ' ··~· . ·~· . ' '. ' . · ... , . . . Editorial Alter many month' ol debate, the issues of Union's continued part1npat10n m :'-JFSCAC and Division I hockey will come before the Senate lor a !mal decision before the end of this term. The Pre.,Idcnt ha~ agreed to a hide by that verdict. Though there is some speculation that the Hoard of Trustees might want to exercise their prerllgati\'C to reserve tor themselves the ultimate determination of the College's policy w1th respect to these questions. it seems highly douhtlul that the Board would overturn the Senate's decision on any 1ssue~. hke Division I and NESCAC. which have been the cause of so mud'! divisiveness and bitter feelings. I he d1~pute has raged lor too long and has run the gamut from rational and mtellt:ctual disc11ssion to impassioned and ramhunct1ous b1ckt:nng. Arguments (on the whole) have been carelull} ar uculated and prolfl!rcd to the campus community. In light ol our knuv.ledgt: ol Lniun and the College's past and all of the de\clopment:., evidence, and lines of reasoning that have arisen 1n the recent pa:.t we must reassert our firm belief that the College ~hould maintain its affiliation with NESCAC and not move to l )I\ 1sion I hockey. I here arc ~ome verv definite benefits to be accrued from the hud.c; program. Speciiically, it would be a major boon with respect to ~umulatmg inter-relationships and amity between the College and the ne1ghhonng community. The congr~:~ency between the rise of hockev and linion'!-> most successful local business drive has not been ·ace~dental. Similarly. athletics can be used as a lever to mnease alumni interest and involvement. The concomitant product 1s money. lhese benefits, however, already have been real1red w1thin Division II play, so why step up the athletic commitment! I he College is an educational institution designed for the enlightenment ol the student body, not for the entertainment of the tov. n ~people. Money. ol course, 1s a different matter. There is little doubt that hockey (successlul hockey that is) will generate local revenue. The correlation beyond local people and area alumni, however, is not estaolished. Moreover, no quality educational institution can afford to sacnl ice its academic integrity and educational philosophy for ca~h returns. hnancial considerations cannot be ignored, but when the Collegl! must put on a show to raise funds, the theory of private, ~mall ~chool education (and Union) is proven worthless and hankrupt (in every sense of the word). I he College must maintain marketability. Athletics, unlike what thl! Prl!sJdent and the Public Relations Office would like us to hc!Ie\e. are not the only salable commodity. The truth is, however, that they have voluntarily and purposefully attempted to tie our market attractiveness solely to hockey and have ignored the attnhute~ ol the College. Were these people working as diligently on sellmg Unton on 1ts academic merits, the contention that hockey is the key to the College·~ luture success would be empirically proven to he as vacuous as It really is. I he da1m that hockey will earn Union a national name is totally I allacwu~. I he I vie' did not earn their respective reputations through ~ports; R PI was known for engineering long before that ~ehuol dl!veloped a hockey program. Amongst some of the other I>I\I~wn I ~ehooh UNH, Clarkson. St. Lawrence, Northeastern, B.<. .. and J>rondence there is nothing more than a wealth of med10en.: college:. at best. lew ol which (if any) have any sort of national name. :\l·SCAC, lor all ot its inconsistencies, faults, and idiosyncracies, ~~ v.herc U mon\ athletic program belongs. Despite the Conference's mandatorv and our academic restrictions, there have been excessive t ran!igresslon~ ol hoth I inancial aid and admissions policies. These ahmc~. moreover. have occurred under the noses of and have been condoned by people in the administration. To think that these pol1cy VIolations will not proliferate to even greater proportions is noth1ng lcs:, than nwve. I he President h1mself has known of many of these abusive actlom and has done everything in his power to prevent the truth aoout ~uch inc1dcnts from surfacing. The College's chief adn11n1strator has prevaricated about many things associated with the hockey program and has covered-up for similar activities on the part!\> ot others. l. nwn ~~ a small school and adheres to a philosophy of a liberal arb education. A major sports program would be a direct contrad1ctwn to the essence ol the College and an anathema to all that 1' 1mphcit in the concept ol a small college. Regardless of the President's desires, Union is not a small unner~1ty. I he College. as such, has limited resources in terms of phy~1cal energ~es. II people were to work on academic development a' knently a~ they do on athletics, Union would be a far stronger and ~upcnor 1nst1tution of learning than it is today. Perhaps. then t:n1on would he the type of academic giant that could afford the '>Ide: attractiDn nl major athletics, without damaging the quality of the school. I he he-;t Image that can surround Union is not one that has mmhroomed from a hockey program. The path of abandoning :-.l:SC AC and going Division I is rife with difficulties that will not I are well tor the academic institution. The College, going Division I, m1ght as well announce that it has decided to opt for athletic rather than mtcllectual advances and enrichment. That message, which is 1mphed m the w1sh to advance to Division I, will not be missed by educator~. prmpective students, and high school college counsellors. !'lporb mu:,t he mamtained as a subsidiary to the school, not vice \crsa. He~1de~ th1~. there may be scheduling problems and the creation o! gro..,~ d1~proport1ons within the athletic department (a la RPI) that would result !rom a move to Division I. The management of the present hockey program should he portentous enough to di..,courage u~ !rom developing that program any further. I he Pre:,1dent's policy on hockey is symbolic of his overall plan and a1m~ lor l;nwn. I he hottom line ol all hi~ proposals, Division I and lea\ mg :\ l::SC ;\(' mcluded. I!> the concept of how to improve the College·~ 1mage without 1mprovmg the College. Hockey's ad\ocates. however. not only lail to understand that they are plannmg ... omethmg that will damage the school. but they do not e\en seem to reali7e that the Image they think hockey will generate I'- elm1ve at he~t and probably deleterious to Union's already ailing academ1c reputation. I he best name that Umon could (and should) develop for itselt is 1hat of a small, top-quality academic institution that, in this time of fmancJal and educational retrenchment. reaffirmed its educational comm1tment in the lace ol the Siren-like temptation of athletics and chose academic ascendency over athletic expansion. Commentary • The Future of Union ROBERT B. RASMUSSEN, Vice President for College Resources Concordy has been carrying numerous articles and letters concerning Union Athletics lately, many of which have stined my desire to write. A recent article, .. Senate Debates Athletics,\ quo,ted directly and in summary form some of my commen~s to the College Senate. The reporting was generally accurate; however, most of the context from which the quotes were taken was missing and the relationship of athletics to other programs not covered. My personal feelings are that Union should make its own decisions regarding .the levels at which each of its teams will compete; that we are more than capable of directing and controlling our own affairs; that we are an exceUent college and should be as good as we can be in everything that we do. Given these points, I personally see little benefit in a c/o the Editors: AN OPEN really boils down to a matter of confidence confidence - that we know what we ar.e doing, and that we are doing it well. Athletic quality is compatible with academic quality, and exciting athletics get us some attention and a chance to show how good we are academically. We are an excellent college and should have the confidence to welcome attention. Internal vs. External Another point. Your article juxtaposed quotes from me with some from Professor Underwood-both following the heading \Internal vs. Ex.ternal\-which was an unfortunate and inaccurate choice. My activities have been centered on the meaningful involvement of Union alumni and friends with the heart of the College, the academic programs. To encourage such involvement, we often start with promotion through athletics. This is one of to meet them; '-;;--- STU DENTS VOTE. ~.,.....=\<' . , , . - BOOSTERS DON'T. ,_, L ,£.:;,.; from a member of the Union College community relationship such as the one we currently have with l'iESCAC. and the questiOn ol Division I answers itself. One thing which cannot be over-emphasized is that unless we have somethmg to say about our ed ucatlonal programs there is no benefit m calling attention to ourselves, particularly through the media. or trymg to get alumm and lriends mvolved with the College. I he pomt is that we are an excellent college with unique academic strength~ v. h 1ch can he hrought to bear to our max1mum advantage onl~ 11 we have opportumt1es to call attention to them. In this context. the fear expressed Ill the I ask 1- o rcc Report that athletiC publicity w!ll somehov. cnerwhelm our academ1c reputation wa~ partJcularl~ d1sturomg. llnle~s we are weak. wh1ch v.c are not. th1s will not happen. It the surest starts on a path toward the end ol being better known a1. an educational institution. Your summary of my remarks implied this, but didn't state it strongly enough. Athletics have particular appeal in our society. They receive broad news coverage, and combine the facets of excellent performance with competition. Competition, incidentally, will be an ever-growing factor in our Admissions picture as we move toward 1991. when the number ol graduating high school seniors 10 \ev. York will he ~omc one-thud b~ than It v.a:-. last June, and the ~ltuation 111 all the •Northwest wdl bl! nearly as bad. Without quarreling with Professor Undcmood\ concern ahout the quality of students, I suhmit that quantity will mdced oe an mcrcming problem. In Alumm Affairs a-cti\ity. we have growing levels ot involvement, particularly in number of clubs; number, variety and quality of club events, and number of individuals involved. The major factors in this are increased staff time devoted to the activity and the number of alumni leaders involved. But the excitement hockey and otht:r sports have generated have given us enjoyable events for clubs to attend, bringing many al11mni back to campus. In 75-76, one alumni club organized a trip to Schenectady to see a hockey game. In 76-77, eight such trips will be made before the season ends, and four other clubs organiz.ed meetings in conjunction with away games being held in their areas. Several of these clubs were virtual'ly defunct before these activities occurred. Having had one successful event, clubs become enthusiastic about developing other programs. This year, in addition to the above functions, a tatal of 70 other meetings have been or will be held, the majority of which will involve faculty or administrative speakers talking about our academic programs. In a similar vein, the Alumni Council has scheduled three instead of the usual two meetings to handle the increased volume of alumni activity, and these meetings involve more and more educational program content. For example, the February 5 meeting involved a lengthy discussion of the Task Force Report, but also involved seminar meetings with the Dean of the Faculty. the Director of Admissions. the Placement Director, and campus tours with student guides. Funds In development activity, it is axiomatic that support is based on understanding, and growing support on growing involvement. Union College has one of the best records of alumni and friends' annual support in the country. Ninety percent of this support is g.iven without restriction of any kind. There are few greater votes of confidence than the giving of an unrestricted gift. In a January 12 editorial, Concordy stated. ''Now, if all those who donate lor the good of the school would contribute to Union's sorely needed academic development, we might just be able to achieve a level of outstanding academics (and have a deserved academic reputation) and improve the entire school, not JUst hockey and athletic programs.\ It doesn't work that way at all. Again very little annual support money ~~ designated by the donor. Most 1s given to be used as the College thinks best. It is g1>en Without restriction, m confidence and pnde. Our Annual Hu~ine~s Campaign illu~tratcs how Identification and pnde build support. and there is no doubt that hockey has had an important impact on th1~ campaign. The specilic reasons that the Annual Business Campaign has more than douhled in the past two years ha've been the doubling ol volunteer:-. from 35 to 70, the dedication ol the volunteer leader~hip, and the amount ol stat t t1me devoted to it. But. and 1t is a very strong \but.\ the excitement generated by our hockey program. and community mvolvement as spectators, has gwen us a tremendous boost in recrUiting and motivating volunteers, and helped create an atmosphere of excitement and involvement. And this year we have an entnely new component ol this campaign- the 1. prolcs carnpa !rom ~olic1ti all ol I w coup!~: Hruec thuugl v.a~ p l'>~Ul!. He opm1 c h)f(;e cared g1\ en the R Art~<l and 1111por howe\ Arts 1 eamp1 Bonnf wasp \ ... It the I repor1 be cc athlet I-oree attent of thf closin expe cncou call alumr typiC< ad mu I here these he: IS t mJ. !orl!Vc we. a to asl Whld careh nght nght a!-.~Un u~ed In my c take excep lc:ctur we I orgar un ol· 4 ualif rcsou progr I.<U Co B w Pres Athl leas disc1 expl I is5 mar. argu widf Trw sub~ Sch1 deVf ''a Unt\ he ass1: witt emt mo< reg1 rep adv ere~ hoc sucl Cat

b n g 0 h s j t s s f CONCORDIENSIS, Mar. 2, 1977 PageS ----------------ATHLETICS and Athletics proli'!ssional persons solicitation campaign involving volunteers from the H0ckey Boosters Club soliciting unrestricted support f()r all of Union (allege. Alumnus Relnal'ks I would also like to make a couple of observations concerning Bruce Down~brough\ very thoughtful letter to me, which Was printed in your February 16 issue. for now, I certainly &gree that th~ College should make its own decision. Union is strong now, strong enough to be able to plan for its future rather th~m merely react to outside events. But, having time to plan does not allow us to ignore the developments which are going to shape the very society in which we will function.. Some forecast developments can stiU be. altered by intelligent planning in which we could play a role. The continued role of inflation, for example, is of critical import to a personnel intense operation such as a college, and can be varied. Union should do what is best for Union . with ~ firm commitment to our plans for our own future, rather than attempt to · borrow an ill-fitting image from others. Ultimately, we rise or fall on our own etl'orts. Acting Director of Athletics, Craig Carlson. Following resolution of the spons controversy, the College will begin anew its search for a permanent A. D. He observed that while his opinions on the Athletic l'a&k FQrce Report were invited if he cared to share them, he was not given this opp9rtunity regardinj the Report on the Status of the Art·s at Union. A very good point and one 'which raises an important 4uestion. The. ta~t is, however, t'hat the Report on the Arts-is a consultants' report, not a campus rc.P,()rt. As. President Bonner nQtcs jn his column whicb was printed n·ext to Bruce's letter, \ ... It will be the campus pliln for the Arts, not the consultants' repoj:t of last summer, that should be. compared .with the plan· for athletics develope·d by the. T~sk Force ·--and receive equi:valent attention from .all cons(ituertcies of the .College,\ .Referring to his· clqsing comments, in all my experience I hav~ never Cl'lCOUntered anyene that We COUld call a typically obnoxious alumnus, any more than . a typically obnoxious student or administrator or laculty member. I here is no such thing in any of these a rcas. Something I believe he is experiencing wltich we all' lind. is that out .aima mater is iorcver a part of us. t'rom ·this we, as a college. presume the right to ask lor support. hut it is a right which I firmly believe must be carefully exercised. We have a right to ask;. the alumnus has a right to ask why. and to be. assured that his, her gift will be used wisely. Athletic Controversy Traced tuture In this regard. and apropos of my earlier points, Union should take no pride in the fact that except for· occasional · guest lecturers and the lAM Council, we have. so 'far,. aimost no organilcd :kinds of programs to involve interested and highly qualified alumni and friends as resources for our academic progmrrts. Lastly. and in closing, ·at least .The issue of the future of · Union's athletics prog~:am and its place in the overall academic institution is one that bas (Jeen hotly contested'jor th~ past two years. Where, extl(:t[y, · did the controversy begin ami why has ~~ reached a climax at Jhis point in time? In the following article, CONCORDIENSIS hopes to present an objective overview of the history of the ·athletic controversy, as well as detail the events that have given athletics. its place at the forefront · of Union community membe.rs' minds. ln the 1950~s and '60':!i Union was a member of the Ind~pendent College Athletic Conference (ICAC), an informal, loosely structured athletic conference, whose members includ·ed Clarkson, St. Lawrence, · RPl, Alfred., and Hobart. Union's athletics schedules in those years were ce.!)tered largely in western New York arid the College teams had to travel long distances to meet several regular opponents. For a number of reasons, league standings and individual and team achievements ~~re not widely reported. lh 1968 and 1969, Union College formally withdrew from the ICAC to become an independent; retaining membership in both the NCAA and the ECAC. According to the Task Force on Athletics, \central to the college's decision to leave JCAC, however, was a widely shared perception amongst trustees, administrators, faculty, coaches, and many alumni that JCAC membership simply was not benefiting Union very significantly.'' NESCAC · After a brief period as an independent, Union actively pursued atliliation with a group of largely New England schools that was in the process of forming-NESCAC (New England Small College Athletic Conference). At that time the benefits that Union sought from NESCAC were public association with \the other member schools, and the undesirability of independefit status.\ For a while there was considerable question whether or not Hamilton or Union would be included in NESCAC, especially because several other schools also seeking membership were not. These two schools did not become closely involved in the formulation of NESCAC until the discussions of the cenference's overall structure were well underway. In 1971, however, eleven scl;lools (Bates, Colby, Middlebury, Trinity, Tufts, Amherst, Bowdoin, Wesleyan, and Williams) entered in a formal association and NESCAC as a conference became a reality. At its inception, NESCAC schools felt that they held in common an educational philosophy and athletic policy. Onion's basic assumption at the time was. that .if it could identify with other traditionally prestigious small liberal arts colleges athletically then it would be more closely identified with them academically. Thus, Union's decision to affiliate with NESCAC seemed to be made as much for academic as for athletic reasons . Over the years, Union has been able to produce successful teams within the conference. However, from time to time Union has questioned its membership in NESCAC, especially in the years when the school has had superior basketball teams whose participation in post-season tournaments was restricted by conference rules. (During these years, though, the school's athletic committee turned down Comment; Questions Standing Before Us BY MANFRED JONAS DEPT_ OF HISTORY visibility which the College would achieve through athletics, he has argued, our applicant pool would be increased, as would the Whatever else the report of the possibilities for raising funds to President's Task Force on support all aspects of the Athletics may have done, it has at institution's development and least served to focus the Onion College would riot only discussion of the potentially survive but prosper in the difficult explosive NESCAC and Division decades ahead. · I issues on essentials rather than OTHER MODELS marginalia. President Bonner has A gtoup of students has taken argued eloquently, both in his issue with this and endorsed the widely distributed address to the more traditional concept of Trustees of January 19 and his Onion College which was·implicit subsequent interview with the in the conclusions of the Task Schen~ctady Gaz~tte, for the Force. The comprehensive CQllege development of Union College as notion, they argue, shortchanges \a comprehensive college in a and ultimately weakens the university setting;\ a development undergraduate academic program . he believes would be materially which is the heart of the College assisted were we to sever our ties ~nd which now attracts students with N ESCAC, stop trying to who equate Union not with the emvlate the Williams or Amherst increasing number of mmt- tnodel, and seek to achieve a universities hut with a select regional and even national group of northeastern colleges. reputation by· taking full Added visibility through athletics advantage of the opportunities combined with a conscious created by the success of the withdrawal from t .• e Jphilosophy hockey team and the presence of of the NESCAC schools will not, such coaches as Harkness and they believe, attract the type of Cahill. Through the greater•intelle.ctually gifted students that Union would like to have nor the gifted faculty interested in teaching such students, and will not simply raise the image of the College but fundamentally change it in ways detrimental to its educational mtsston . and, ' indeed, to its survival as a prestige institution. The visibility that Union needs, they contend, should come instead from educational innovation, the launching of programs for gifted students (honors college, merit scholarships, etc.), and publicity elsewhere than . on the sports pages. Other students, faculty and alumni have entered the discussion on one side or another of this issue. As an article in the February I issue of The New Hampshire accurately put it: \Although the debate is centered around intercollegiate hockey, it is rooted in the larger question of Union's direction and purpose in the coming . decade ... CONSEQUENCES The outcome of this debate and the actions taken in consequence of it will, of course, affect Union's place in the academic sp.ectrum for some time to come, and aif those engaged in the debate must in the final analysis find an answer to two questions. The first of these is whether it will really make much difference if Onion leaves N ESCAC and promotes at least hockey, and perhaps other sports as well, to the maximum degree possible. If the answer is no, then the entire discussion need not be prolonged and these matters might well be decided either by the flip of a .coin, or left simply. up to the president, without any further advice from faculty, students, alumni or trustees. But if the answer is yes, and both the president and those who disagree with him in substance clearly believe it is, then that decision must be based on the collective wisdom of all concerned which the president has repeatedly stated he would accept. All of us must then answer the second question, for which no \hard data'\ can provide an obvious answer and for which no cost-benefit analysis will work: What kind of an institution do we want Union to be? any and all motions to leave NESCAC). Achilles rink Ill the summer of 1974, a significant addition to the athletic plant of Union complicated the question of the future of athletic planning. It was at this time that former President Harold Martin accepted the gift of $2 million from H. Laurence Achilles for the construction of the rink that bears his name. w·ithin six months, newly-appointed President Thomas Bonner announced the hiring of Ned Harkness to mount \the best hockey program we can get\ and to plan to develop student, faculty, and community involvement in the rink's use. Harkness, in turn, recruited, by any definition, a top-notch hockey squad which in its first full season won over 20 games and a berth in the ECAC post- season. tournament. Tbe success of the hockey program caused many people on the Union campus to call for its expansion to Division One status, citing many external benefits the College would receive as a rationale. With Union athletics at a crossroads, President Bonner saw the need to appoint a Task Force on Athletics, whose charge would be to explore the status and future of the athletic program '(in areas other than hockey: i.e. women's athletics, recreation, intramurals, etc.). The deliberations over the status of Division One hockey were complicated by statements made during the April 1976 meeting of the Presidents ofNESCAC. At this meeting, Bonner was told that any move by Union towards Division One hockey would be \incompatible with the philosophies of NESCAC.\ In other words, if Union was to enter Division One hockey, the school would be removed from NESCAC. After ni.ne months of deliberations, the Task Force released its recommendations. These included, in the controversial area of the hockey program, a recommendation that Union reaffirm its dedication to the philosophies of NESCAC as well as remain at the Division Two level in intercollegiate hockey. The report has been received with mixed reactions, both on and off campus, and the time is drawing near where the All-College Senate will finally make its decisions as to what Union's athletic future should be.

y f CONCORDIENSIS, Mar. 2, 1977 Page 5 . ;' . . . . . ' - . : '. . ' . ' ' . ~ . . :' . . ' . . .. ~. . '• . . . ' : ' '. '·. . . . . . . . ATHLETICS and Athletics professional pcr~on~ ~olrcitation campaign rm ol\ rng \ olunteers !rom t.he Hockey Booster~ Club ~olicllimg unrc:-.trictcd ~11pport for aH of Union Col:lege. Alumnus Remarks I would al-.u lrkc to make a coupk of oh~cf\atwns col'lccrning Hru~:c Do~ ll'>hrough'~ very thuughtlul lettcr tu rnc. >'!h~~:h v.a\ pnntcd m ;,our h:hruary 16 I'>'> Lit:. for now, I certainly agree that the College should make its own decision. Union is strong now, strong enough to be able to plan tor its future rather tha11 merely react to outside events. But, having time to p'lan does not allow us to ignore the developments which arc going to shape the very society in which we wiH function. Some forecast developmerHs can still he altered by intelligent planning in which we could play a role. The continued role of inf1ation, for example, is of critical import to a personnel intense operation such as a college, and can be varied. Union should do what i~ be~t lor Union with a lirrn commitment to our plans for our own future, rather than attempt to borrow an ill-fitting image from others. Ultimately, we rise or fall on our own efforts. Acting Director of Athletics, Craig Carlson. Following resolution oj the sporrs controversy, the College will begin anew its search for a permanent A. D. lk oh-.cnt.:d that while his opmionc. on the Athletic Task h1rce Report were invited if he <.:an.:d to '>hare them, he was not gtvcn tim opportunity regarding the Report on the Status of the Art:- at l 'nwn. A very good point and one ~ v. htch raises an unportant 4Uc~l!on. I he fact is, howcver, that the Report on the Arts ts a consultants' report, not a campu~ report. As President Bonner notes in his colHmn which was printed 11ext to Bruce's letter, \ ... It will he the campus plan for the Arts, not the consultants' report ol last summer, that should be compared with the plan for athletics developed by the Task I-oree and receive equivalent attention t rom all constituencies of the College.\ Referring to his closing comments, in all my experience I have never encountered anyone that we could call a typically obnoxious alumnus. any more than a typrcally obnoxious student or admrm~trator or !acuity member. I here is no such thing in any of these areas. Something I believe he rs experiencing which we all lind. t~ that our alma mater is lorevcr a part of us. From this we. a~ a college. presume the right to ask lor support, hut it is a right whtch I firmly believe must be carefully exerctsed. We have a nght to ask; the alumnus has a nght to ask why, and to be a~~urcd that hts her gift will be Athletic Controversy Traced u~ed wisely. tuture In thts regard. and apropos of my earltcr pomts, Union should take no pride in the !act that except lor occasional guest lecturers and the lAM Council, we have. so far, aimost no organrted kinds of programs to tmolvc mtcrested and highly l(Ualtficd alumnr and friends a~ resources lor our academic programs. l.astly. and in closing, at least The issue of the future of Union's athletics program and its place in the overall academic institution is one that has been hotly contested for the past two years. Where, exactly, did the controversy begin and why has it reached a climax at this point in time? In the following article, CONCORDIENSIS hopes to present an objective overview of the history of the athletic controversy, as well as detail the events that have given athletics its place at the forefront of Union community members' minds. In the 1950's and '60's Union was a member of the Independent College Athletic Conference (ICAC), an informal, loosely structured athletic conference, whose members included Clarkson, St. Lawrence, RPI, Alfred, and Hobart. Union's athletics schedules in those years were centered largely in western New York and the College teams had to travel long distances to meet several regular opponents. For a number of reasons, league standings and individual and team achievements were not widely reported. In 1968 and 1969, Union College formally withdrew from the ICAC to become an independent, retaining membership in both the NCAA and the ECAC. According to the Task Force on Athletics, \central to the college's decision to leave ICAC, however, was a widely shared perception amongst trustees, administrators, faculty, coaches, and many alumni that ICAC membership simply was not benefiting Union very significantly.\ NESCAC After a brief period as an independent, Union actively pursued affiliation with a group of largely New England schools that was in the process of forming-NESCAC (New England Small College Athletic Conference). At that time the benefits that Union sought from NESCAC were public association with \the other member schools, and the undesirability of independent status.\ For a while there was considerable question whether or not Hamilton or Union would be included in NESCAC, especially because several other schools also seeking membership were not. These two schools did not become closely involved in the formulation of NESCAC until the discussions of the conference's overall structure were well underway. In 1971, however, eleven schools (Bates, Colby, Middlebury, Trinity, Tufts, Amherst, Bowdoin, Wesleyan, and Williams) entered in a formal assoctatron and NESCAC as a conference became a reality. At its inception, N ESCAC schools felt that they held in common an educational philosophy and athletic policy. Union's basic assumption at the time was that if it could identify with other traditionally prestrgtous small liberal arts colleges athletically then it would be more closely identified with them academically. Thus, Union's decision to affiliate with NESCAC seemed to be made as much for academic as for athletic reasons. Over the years. Union has been able to produce successful teams within the conference. However, from time to time Union has questioned its membership in NESCAC, especially in the years when the school has had superior basketball teams whose participation in post-season tournaments was restricted by conference rules. (During these years, though, the school's athletic committee turned down Comment: Questions Standing Before Us BY MANFRED JONAS DEPT. OF HISTORY visibility which the College would achieve through athletics, he has argued, our applicant pool would be increased. as would the Whatever else the report of the possibilities for raising funds to President's Task Force on support all aspects of the Athletics may have done, it has at institution's development and least served to focus the Union College would not only discussion of the potentially survive but prosper in the difficult explosive NESCAC and Division decades ahead. I issues on essentials rather than OTHER MODELS marginalia. President Bonner has A group of students has taken argued eloquently, both in his issue with this and endorsed the widely distributed address to the more traditional concept of Trustees of January 19 and his Union College which was implicit subsequent interview with the in the conclusions of the Task Schenectady Gazette, for the Force. The comprehensive cqllege development of Union College as notion, they argue, shortchanges \a comprehensive college in a and ultimately weakens the university setting,\ a development undergraduate academic program he believes would be materially which is the heart of the College asststed were we to sever our ties and which now attracts students with N ESC A C. stop trying to who equate Union not with the emulate the Williams or Amherst increasing number of mini- model. and seek to achieve a universities but with a select regional and even national group of northeastern colleges. reputation by taking full Added visibility through athletics ad vantage of the opportunities combined with a conscious created by the success of the withdrawal from L•e !Philosophy hockey team and the presence of of the N ESCAC schools will not, such coaches as Harkness and they believe, attract the type of Cahill. I hrough the greater • intellectually gifted students that Union would like to have nor the gifted faculty interested in teaching such students, and will not simply raise the image of the College but fundamentally change it in ways detrimental to its educational miss10n and, indeed, to its survival as a prestige institution. The visibility that Union needs, they contend, should come instead from educational innovation, the launching of programs for gifted students (honors college, merit scholarships, etc.), and publicity elsewhere than . on the sports pages. Other students, faculty and alumni have entered the discussion on one side or another of this issue. As an article in the February I issue of The New Hampshire accurately put it: \Although the debate is centered around intercollegiate hockey, it is rooted in the larger question of Union's direction and purpose in the coming decade.\ CONSEQUENCES The outcome of this debate and the actions taken in consequence of it will, of course, affect Union's place in the academic spectrum lor some time to come. and all those engaged in the debate must in the final analysis find an answer to two questions. The first of these is whether it will really make much difference if Union leaves N ESCAC and promotes at least hockey, and perhaps other sports as well. to the maximum degree possible. If the answer is no, then the entire discussion need not be prolonged and these matters might well be decided either by the flip of a coin, or left simply up to the president, without any further advice from faculty, students, alumni or trustees. But if the answer is yes, and both the president and those who disagree with him in substance clearly believe it is, then that decision must be based on the collective wisdom of all concerned which the president has repeatedly stated he would accept. All of us must then answer the second question, for which no \hard data\ can provide an obvious answer and for which no cost-benefit analysis will work: What kind of an institution do we want Union to be'! any and all motions to leave NESCAC). Achilles rink IP the summer of 1974, a significant addition to the athletic plant of Union complicated the question of the future of athletic planning. It was at this time that former President Harold Martin accepted the gift of $2 million from H. Laurence Achilles for the construction of the rink that bears his name. Within six months, newly-appointed President Thomas Bonner announced the hiring of Ned Harkness to mount \the best hockey program we can get\ and to plan to develop student, faculty, and community involvement in the rink's use. Harkness, in turn, recruited, by any definition. a top-notch hockey squad which in its first full season won over 20 games and a berth in the ECAC post- season tournament. The success of the hockey program caused many people on the Union campus to call lor its expansion to Division One status, citing many external benefits the College would receive as a rationale. With Union athletics at a crossroads, President Bonner saw the need to appoint a Task Force on Athletics, whose charge would be to explore the status and future of the athletic program (in areas other than hockey: i.e. women's athletics, recreation, imramurals, etc.). The deliberations over the status of Division One hocke} were complicated by statements made during the April 1976 meeting of the Prest dents ofNESCAC. At this meetmg, Bonner was told that any move by Union towards Division One hockey would be \incompatible with the philosophies of NESCAC.\ In other words, it Union was to enter Division One hockey, the school would be removed I rom N ESCAC. Alter ntne months of deliberations, the !ask Force released its recommendations. These included, in the controversial area of the hockey program, a recommendation that Union reafltrm its dedication to the philosophies of N ESCAC as well as remain at the Diviston Two level tn intercollegiate hockey. The report has been received with mixed reactions. both on and off campus, and the time is drawing near where the All-College Senate will I inally make Its decisions as to what Union's athletic future should be.

l, ; Page6 CONCORDI.E/VSIS~ Mar. 2, 1977 ''SMALL COLLEGE IN ·: ' • , , - ' . ' . • . , • ~ , • • , - ~ • • • • ' • I • Commentary : The President's ·Model Quest,ioned Frank Gado, Dept. of English Tbe preamble to the printed version of President Bonner's recent address to the trustees, \The Promise and the Paradox,\ states that it is being distributed in order \to encourage discussion prestigious Packard name and its lower price would enable the company to regain the customers whose diminished finances had induced the~ to buy the medium-. priced models of other manufacturers. The new policy led to disaster. Although the Professor Frank Gado of the ideas and visi<m of Union College put forth here.\ I should like to take that invitation seriously, for my VIsion of Union-of what it is and should become-differs radically from Bonner's. Should Bonner prevail, it would mean the death of the Union in which I once dared put my trust. Let me illustrate IQY concern with a parable of sorts that' I have cited before. In the 1920's, the Packard automobile was the standard of excellence among luxury cars. With the Great Depression, sales of the Packard slipped, and by the middle of the decade, the corporation's officers decided to gamble on introducing a new line of cheaper cars, to be called the Clipper, while. keeping the Packard in production on a limited scale. The Packard Clipper. it was argued, would have the advanta8e of the company's number of sales remained relatively constant, its income declined because Clipper sales cut into the luxury model's sales without enticing customers from Ford and GM. After the war, the old Packard line, its prestige eroded by the Clipper, was finally dropped. A few years later, the company itself failed. Bonner's \total forward strategy\ for a mini-multiversity seems born of the same faulty thinking which sent the Packard into oblivion. At first galnce, the model for which Bonner would prepare the dies does not seem altogether new to those of us who have spent more than a decade at Union. President Martin, at the start of his. term, also looked eastward to our freres under the loosely codified laws of Minerva. But, Martin-I would like to think because he recognized what the essential n,ature of the College was-never threatened to meld Union into a . university. His experiences (and, I venture to say, his primary loyalties) were attached to quality undergraduate ed:ucation. In contrast, his successor's · background at Cincinnati and at UNH bespeaks a very different. orientation. During the Martin years, we also ttie<i to install several 'doctoral programs in the sciences. These were to be the \chimneys\ which would lift the quality of the College by their updraft. All that went up the flue, however, was an inordinately large sum of money for the number of Ph.D.'s vroduced. Even so,. the program never imperiled the integrity of the College. It was based on undergraduate faculty of high caliber, and it was to be kept small. In contrast, Bonner pr:esents an exploded Union; in his term, \a comprehensive college in a university setting,\ the accent is clearly on \university.\ Indeed, the blueprint of his new Union com;picuously avoids mention of undergraduate education, while ominously describing lAM as ... the cutting edge of a new dimension\ and adult education, nota bene, as \the only remaining frontier in higher education.\ The drift of his remarks in his weekly columns in this newspaper has been equally revealing. Wheteas he calls for programs in the health field, in government, and in· business · administration, he has been silent o:n ways of strengthening the traditional core of College instruction. Latham Circle In the recent past, Union attempted to gain some of the advantages of the university's diversity by joining and subsidizing a consortium. It was,. so another administration told us, the path to the future. But, the path ·led only to an expensive office in Latham Circle. What benefits accrued to Union have been nearly invisible to most of US.· The VlSlOO never took into when he was a hoy,. he thought of account the fundamental Union as a New York State problems of incomp.ati:ble school. For all his talk abo'i,It calend-ars, tr~ffic-c.Iogged achieving a. national (and, even,. highways between the schools, , international! reputation, liis goal and the stubborn autonomy of seems to be much more restricted tbe schools within :the group. Has geographically. While it .is true Bonner taken cogniumce of the that the area from which Union's same or related problems in clientele has been drawn has been trying to glue together his new shrinking, most of the ~am,pus Union? If so, he ow~s it to the and most of the Board of Trustees College community to vouchsafe have seen this development as his solutions. something to be counteracted. But, even if, at some hazard, we Bonner's model tends to con.vert p!lt aside the lessons the past this tendency into a premise from offers, the prospe<:ts for Bonnet's which we should proceed. modrel are anything but •_ More troubling has h~en the promising. recent eJ~:perienct: of other colleges One of the k~y components is which have sought to use their to draw the Albany affiliates strength ~s undergraduate more tightly to the bosom of .institutions as springboards Mother Minerva. I am willing to toward de facto university status. grant that these schools are Antioch:'s experiment with legal institutions of good education has had unhappy quality ..,-even, for the sake of results; Dartmouth's expansion of argumet, that they may l;>e better its two-year medical school has schools vis. a vis their competitors 'become a menace to the school1s than. Union is in comparison with endowment. Let's face it, high schools of its type. But, the p1,1blic quality graduate education tends Will the small college prevail? . to cost much more than it earns. Furthermore, ~s our own experience with Ph.D. programs and with the M.A. in American studies should have demonstrated,- the road to Arts Development image of Albany Medical School and Albany Law School identifies tllem with New York State; Union College tends to think of itself as a school with regional appeal which is trying to establish a national reputation it believes it already deserves. Do these dissimilar characteristics argue for Closer federation? graduate education glory is rocky indeed. And, while· we are considering the generation of various programs predicated on what Bonner regards as the great asset of a \metropolitan\ setting, we might also remember tbe !)ad Continued from Page l excellence in a program of fine arts at Union has been amply demonstrated. The faculty feel that this is the time far an administrative re-assessment of the arts here and for planning for expansion so that the arts will IMPORTANT NOTICE l1n response to increasing demand and the overwhelming succes·s of the last NIGHTCLUB, . the Social Committee is proud to .present the second such eJ'dravaganza of this year. It will take place this FRIDAY evening MARCH 4th at 9 P.M. In order to accomodate more people, this evening of fun .and frolic will be held in the gyni. The cover charge of $3 per person includes 3 mixed drinks (mixed by our expert bartenders), a plate of cheese, crackers and fruit, the hila.rious comedy of RICH BELlER, and the music ot FLO, a dance band from Boston guaranteed to get you up and boogying. Tickets for this gala event can be pun:hased in the Student . Activities office. Attire for the e-vening should be semi-formal. take their proper place here. No only will this be to the advantage of the department itself but also,. in our judgment, such an expansion will attract a new group of students to the Arts major at Union. At the same time the college will become more attractive to many prospective students of promise - especially those who may be coming here for the sciences. Before the presentation of particular programs of study for each division of the department, it should be stressed that this new program of concentration in the Arts will in no way restrict the non-major. There will always be the basic courses for the general undergraduate. The change in point of view and in concentration will come in the upper level courses. Upperclass courses will be directed more toward the \professional\ needs of the major than they are now BUT even though these courses are to be geared more toward \professionalism it is our considered opinion that the general student will profit at least as much as he does now from the intense discipline in the higber level courses. The Department of the Arts exists to serve 4 kinds of students; I. The four year major. this student will be prepared by the department for successful entrance into any graduate s~;bool in the Arts. (In the case of the Art B o n n e r is a p p a r e-n t I y untroubled by the difficulty; his recent statement emphasizes that, eJDphasis, the major who is G 1 Ed interested in the more \Classi~al\ ' enera . - art studies, i.e. oil painting, may Continued fi:om p~ge 3 be encouraged to leave Union early and transfer to an art to provide enough courses and school.) course enrollment positions for The degree offered will be the students in Comp. Ed. courses, AB in ARTS with emphasis in art the Board began to cross-list or music or drama. certain departmental courses for 2. The doubly-endowed Comp. Ed. credit. This practice student. This undergraduate wiH severely challenged the original be taking a double major, in assumption that Comp. Ed. effect. He will not be an ID courses were special or unique, major. This will be a rare and censtituted the initial steps category, but such a student will toward a distribution system not certainly bring distinction to unlike the one from which Comp. Union. Such a man is Philip Ed. had originally depa1ted. Gruppuso, 1973. Current proposals for new general 3. The inter-departrm:ntal education requirements and major. We are going to exercise· courses complete, in a very great care and caution in ge11eral sense, this return to the accepting IDs into our distribution .principle. department. We shall encourage Why was Union College unable them to take well above the to sustain a Comp .. Ed. Program? required minimum number of Some -would answer that the courses. whole notion of required general 4. The Union undergraduate, to education is inherently flawed. Whom we shall offer the best Others may say that Union auxiliary service that we can. College simply lacked sufficient Remarks in the above paragraphs enthu~lasrn and understanding to should make abundantly clear our support any such bold plan for sense of responsibility to this liberal learning. I think there are student. a few somewhat more specific factors at work. First one ·should .note that from the peak of comp. Ed.'s development in 1969 through its decline to present pleas for any new system that \will work,\ Union's student body 1rlcrea&ed by almost 25%. Departments in the meantime vvete building ever richer and more diverse course offerings, by crude count a general. increase in catalogue listings .o( close to 20 percent. Yet faculty size increased less than I 0 percent. Something had to give, and it was Comp. Ed. The number of Comp. Ed. courses remained about constant, and, at least in the freshman courses, enrollments per section crept steadily upward. Finally, the scholarship, · teaching, and leaming within many of 1 Union·~ departments and majors became increasingly transdisciplinary .during those years. Thus, perhaps the major objective of Comp. Ed. has been partially accompli~hed, ironically, within the very portions of th~ curriculum - it originally sought to sup.plement. A - disc' ago, 0 tha· N.Y inst: 1;~> .con: diffi ourl wn) Sue noi acac and favc: of und larg of 11 a uni, cha1 Uni in t tiny or-ie inst the Ro< like antt risk as. ~ and Ma rep• the c end pri\ · l:Jni has rec ma1 ero: thn $tO< lar!] fre,n ·hav res< inst san bee1 Oll'T inc adn amc Stll< has leve diet size the adn ligh 198 E rusl din; stre \'()( pre~ assl its I of : will and fa c adn dif£ wh dist han nev. the the disr be : trac tha1 end the edu thil1 Alll A pro by l The rais tho: str<J kine in hon mul 1

. _.,.,. •' • l' '' '' . ,' ~ ~I CONCORDJENSIS, Mar. 2, 1977 . . . _. . . ~ ,. . .. . . .......... ' ........ Pf!ge 7 ,•. A UNIVERSITY SETTING\ discovecy of N.Y. U. ·~ few years ago, Why,r· One must concede, of course~ that Dartmouth, Antioch, N.Y.U;, or most any otber institutic.m is not .precisely congruent with Union. Their difficulties need not necessarily be ours, Yet;- the. question remains, wily becom~ a small university? Such sch.ools are not enjoying notab-le suc.cess in today's academic market place. Students and teachers of .high quality who favor tlte distingtlishing features of the university are understandably drawn to the large institutions which can boast of resources and prestige. none but a mere faction of smaH universities have. What are the chances on .a re-l>red Union University; starting from far :back in the pac;:k and with a, relatively tiny endowment and a faculty oriented towar(i undergraduate instruction, elbowing its way into the distinguished company of the Rochesters? And, .jf that is not a likely result, why bother1 Is the ante we would .perforce be risking-a generally good name as, a comparatively small college and the progress made during the Martin Years in fortifying that rep\ltati(m---commensurate · w~th the probable degree uf success? Cons ideraHort of the endo:wment~the Jife~s blood of a privat~ instituti<m~is crucial to Hnion'l! ·future. Our endowment has not fared. well during the rec-en:t pa·st. PoM fiscal management of the ·College, the erosion of our capital's teal value threl,igh inflation, and a dismal stock market after we shifted a large portion of our holdings fr<>in bpnds to common stocks . have. all combined: to liroit . ()Ur resources for imptovemen_t of the institution's quality. During this same period,· the situation has been aggravated by a doubling of our student body and $izable increases in faculty and administrative personneL The amount. of endowment per stlldent and per facultY member has fallen to a dangerously low level. Prudence would seem to dictate a gradual cut-back in the size of the student body and in the number of faculty and .administrators-especially in the light of the demographics of the l980;s. Bonner, howeve(, seems to be rushing pell-mell in the other ditection. His mod_el; with its stress . on the·· development of vocational programs, is predicated on one of two assumptions; If Union is to retain its current departments-and-array of students, these new programs will mean a larger student body and the recruitment of additional faculty, students, and administrators of a rather different character from. that which has traditionally distinguished Union; on the other hand, if the development of the new model is to displace part of the present College, then (unless the President is planning to dismiss tenured faculty) there will be a surplus of instructors in the traditional disciplines fot more than a decade .. Either way, the endowment available to defray the cost of each student's education will be stretched thinner. Alumni Giving Alumni giving, it ·seems probable, would also be affected by adoption of the Bonner model. The schools which fare best in raising funds from alumni are those which have fostered a strong sense· -of loyalty. Which kind of institution promises more in ·this regard, a relatively homogeneous college or a mini- multiversity? The 1980's, as virtually ev~ryone now realizes, will be a certain to add to Division, I and Rip Rowan, have tried t:' time .of fien:e competition for momentum on the campus, was dismiss the Task Forces students. Would following not' merely an affirmation of contention that a sch~ol should Bonneis strategy\ place us in a Harkness' coaching, but, of {the?) not .rely on the ~ag1c of one better position'? His model cour.se (in which ?) Bonner is coach to transform 1t. How abo~t imitates what numerous state steering the college. His gamble is Knute Rockne at Notre Datne, universities offer. Why should a far from won; but, for the they say. But, Notr~ . Dat?e studeJit select Union University, · moment he has reason to be (leaving aside the questton of 1ts with its much bigher costs? (Even pleased~\J .. · academic distinction) was a if our hockey teams are still · AlthQ ugh ·the special case. Foot~all success g:--ve skating to glory in the '80's, even, administration may object that Notre Dame a natiOnal reputatiOn if all the other sports programs t,his interpretation is Forbush's by making _it the cyno~ure for are ''tlc:mrishing, .the tuition alone, it is completely consistent every Catholic eye m . t~e differential would be a vent high with the word and of Cathobc price for a season ticket.) To my mind, the very· ki~d of Union College Bonner eschews seems our best hope for survival. All signs .point to an accelerating backswing from the trivialization that marked higher education in the laste '60's and early '70's. Surely, the only schools which Will <;otnmand the high tuition fees of the •so~s will · be those which .serve an educated elite. Although we should be developing an academically more challenging institution, Bonner.......,as he indicated at a September meeting e<tlled to voice facuity alarm at our intellectual decline~sees higher standards arsc an' unrealistic goal which would cut us out of the smaller student . . market. _ The comprehensive college model, President Bonner's To compensate for the . . . . 1 h shrinking number of 18-year olds · blueprmt for the development of Unzon, recent y . as come in the 'BO!s, Bmmer would enlaq~e into question. 1 Will Union's future endure the change? ,the continuing education division, · · Mr. Feinsot~s office currently Bonner's statements and with his does turn a pmfit, but only actions .. The picture it presents is because teacher pay is low and alarming. We are to gamble on because the sole requirement for hockey leading us away from the entrance into a class is the money illusion that we are or should be a to pay for it. Wltat promise of distinguished college and toward distinction do these facts hold? a new realization of our identity Furthermore, if one examines the as a small university. Athletics current catalogue, one will find an and our academic character are astonishing p.f.otife..rat[onc. qf Jton- inextricably bound. The Senate credit courses of the sort Qffered vote on the Division 1 question is by sec and the aqult education to be a kind of referendum, not, programs in : sllburban high finally, on the level of play, but schools. Is this the kind of on the model the institution will \frontier\ ip which to build follow! Three years ago, one was Union's future? not allowed to use the word Last-.or more accurately, \hockey rink\ in debate on the first~Bonner would lead us to proposed Achilles \ice facility.\ unprecedented heights by Today, Union's future is to ride stressing a,thletics. T 6 that ~d, he on the shoulders of its skaters! has been marshalling community Focusing Attention support to p~:essure the College Repeatedly, Bonner has told us into ratifying his will. Distasteful, that success in sports will focus indecoroufiP'and improper as tl:tat national attention on our campaign has been; l find even academic strengths. Whether he is more disco n.certing its sincere in offering that vision or implications for our academic merely trying to gull us into future. The most ominous aspects supporting his policy, the of Bonner;s view of the Collete statement has- dubious validity. are evident in an article for The Those local sages, Jack Hugerich universities in the U.S. (as even Catholic intellectuals have generally conceded) bad not established strong academic reputations, Notre Dame was able to use its athletic prominence to upgrade its scholastic standing. What natural constituency would be alerted to Union's merits? Notre Dame's football receipts were applied in part to faculty salaries, buildings, and academic scholarships. What funds, generated by an Achilles Rink which, as even Bob McNamara points out, is too small for a Division I program, would hockey make available to our academic program? Beyond Notre Dame, what signs exist that sports improve a college's academic reputation? What intellectually promising student is swayed by the sports pages into applying to Jacksonville? To St. Peter's in Jersey City? To Providence? To Oral Roberts? To UNH~rated No. I in hockey? One may argue, of course, that if sports victories do not enhance a. school's academic standing, they do not necessarily do it harm. But~ a ma11ia for athletic triumph (such as we have seen developing here} is injurious, for it can cause a school to forget what it is in existence for and what values it is supposed to serve. The symptoms are already evident. The story of violations of Admissions Committee procedure~ has been too well circulated to require f~rtlter elaboration here. Also, the ~port published last year in Coneoll'dy (which was based on evidence from carelessly discarded computer tapes) about the clisproportionate allocation of scholarship funds to the hockey team llas not been refuted, despite the seriousness of the charge. Most recently, Sports Illustrated published a story containing false information about the scholastic standing of members of the hockey team. When this was called to the administration's attention, it responded that it was a combination of honest mistakes, inclcding a misunderstanding of the qualifications for Dean's List, no less! .Perhaps. But, did the Uni()n official responsible write to Sl offering to correct the mista~e'! Did Sonner, when he sent copies of the magazine to each trustee (after the mistake had been revealed), append a note clarifying the misunderstanding? If we are not deliberate liars, have we become thieves who appropriate what is !lot justly onrs? What lesson m moral cymctsm, symbolized by this incident, will this impart to our st11deilts-and especially to the hockey players who know the facts'? Although local sports writers have been understandably delighted by the hockey program, academicians beyond Schenectady have already begun to note with dismay the change in Union that has foll<>wed in its wake. Just after making his inaugural pledge to revive Union's fortunes as a private liberal arts college, B1>nner asked that the annual faculty review ~f the president's performance be deferred for a period of two to three years until he had had time to study the school and to launch his ideas. It is now time for ihat review of his stewardship to be undertaken. For; ultimately, it is not Bonner wlto is gambling with the College's future, it is all of us. It is o11:r school and our profes!,!ional lives which are at stake. New Hampshire by the manager ·of our news bureau; a man who has covered Bonner since his freshman year at UNH,. who was brought here by Bonner, and who Dean Bro·wnlee on Comp Eds meett; regularly with Bonner. Our Continued from Page :! president, writes Dan Forbush, enrollments are not controlled, teaching can move together \has made a larger gamble, the the implications that faculty toward such a scheme. outcome of which will determine . • 11 teacl~ing . Joads be~om.e the kind of institution Umon Wl unbalanced is clear! To avmd th1s be when it enters the difficult Immediate Task we need to do as much l980's .. ;One of the guiding \modeling\ as possible. At_ ev.ery P rincip· les of NESCAC is that l b 1 h · t. d h re only -y step, while educationa o ~e~t~~es ave presen e . e m · athletics be kept at a modest and faculty teaching capabditles own perCeption of the thought / levei...Many Union faculty and . are of paramount importance, we that has gone into the develop- students value association with shall have to weigh resources and ment of the new General NESCAC schools. Bonner, departmental loading extremely Education so far. As I have said :however, is of a different mind b \' h \' 1 h to ••put carefully. . · e. ore, t e ,acu ty ave . _. entirely. He insists that EPC and its sub-committee flesh on the bones .. but even Union-which has a graduate 'have talked over very carefully before that, have to agree that the school, offers a number of b. k 1 · ·1 k dl · the possible shape of freshm,en ony s e eton · oo s goo . cooperative programs with courses. We believed there were ;nie next steps will be to work Albany Law School and Albany several components that Were directly with Departments to see Medical School through the important These included: an what existing, transformed Comp. loosely-knit Union University; overall' introduction to liberal Ed. and future courses they are and is located in an urban center learning at a college level (and able to offer to our students in ripe . for major programs in th1s might tie d~rectly into a this .program. Once in, this will be continuing education-is inore Freshmen Advisement system), put together, we trust, as a · like a small university than a small classes, development of coherent and interesting set of small liberal arts college ... A vote · writing and speaking \skills\ and special .. distribution require- rejecting the task force's perhaps a single reading list or set tnents.\ recommendation will be a victory of common topics. The last Concurrently, we are eager to for Boner;s (sic) model. ·attribute was suggested in identify faculty members who are AccePtance 0 f the response to a sense that a interested in teaching in the recommendation will be a blow common coherent experience was Freshmen course as well as against it. .. (B()nner'·s and · d · Harkness.')· ambitiGns are important for freshmen .. It J?robably actmg. as a VIsors. remains to be seen whether Department Chatrpersons would inextricably linked. Union's faculty members involved in this be consulted as to the availability victory (over UNH), which is of each of these faculty members, then the freshman course would be de&igned in detail by those who will he teaching it; we hope so much to be able to work out some released time ·to faculty partici- pants and perhaps offer a week or more of scmmer workshops (with h()norarium). A great deal remains to be done before Comprehensive Education is laid to rest and the Faculty and Senate vote in a new General EdtJc~Jti()n Program. We persist in our belief that action will be taken this year with the all- important support of the majority of fac-ulty and students. We hope further that much of the final plan might be implemented in the Fall. Since we live always with catalogue and Registrarial deadlines~ this will take yet some intense ·effort on the part of EPC and departtnent chairpersons and others. Our optimism rests on the strength ()f the desire of faculty and students to see a strong and respected new General curriculum be developed and implemented as soon as possible.

• I Page8 CONC()RDIENSIS, Mar. 2~ 1977 . INTERNAL ED FOUNDATION------ The Concept and Birth by JIM KENNEY, Dept. of Economi~s This month the College Senate will consider a proposal by the Planning and Priorities Committee to estabiish an Internal Education Foundation at Union College. The purpose of the Foundation is to stimulate and support curricular enhance- ment, efforts at educational innovation, and scholarly pursuits at the College. Financed out of annual tuition revenue, the Foundalion is proposed to begin it~ work effective with the 1977-78 academic year and with an initial budgetary allocation of $150,000. The following is a brief description of the origins and development of the Foundation proposal. The Origins of the Proposal In February, 1976 the Planning and Priorities Committee held a series of meetings with the Administrative Cabinet in a joint effort to define the College's future and to begin detailed budgeting in that context. On the basis of those cfiscussions the following set of observations and assumptions emerged as guide- lines for the budgetary planning process: I) During the next 10-15 years enrollment problems will become considerably more severe as applicant pools decline. Union will face much intensified competition for the smaller number of applicants, especially those with high academic promise. 2) Projections of Union College expenditures and revenues over the next five years make it clear that tuition will continue to rise, probably faster than the general rate of inflation. This could worsen our competitive position vis-a-vis both the public and many private institutions with which we compete. 3) For a number of reasons, the College (especially its academic program) has a low level of visibility and public identifi- cation; and this hampers our admissions efforts. This problem is especially acute in comparison with the success of some of the other N ESCAC schools. 4) Within the College community there seems to be a serious lack of intellectual curiosity among students and little scholarly pursuit and intellectual interaction outside the classroom. 5) Efforts at curricular enhancement and educational innovation at Union often ate frustrated by the lack of financial support or budgetary inflexibility. The overwhelming sentiment of the Committee and Cabinet members was that Union should strive to become better known and appreciated. However it was also stressed that, beneath all of the public relations . gimmickry, the sustaining strength of the College, and the area in which the College has historically put its greatest efforts and resources. is its educational program with a strong faculty and strong curriculum. One of Union·s greatest educational assets. student-faculty interaction both inside and outside of the classroom, must be stimulated and supported so that an already strong curriculum could be enriched and so that the College could offer a truly unique educational experience to its students. In order to assure that the Committee was not making a hollow commitment and cognizant of the legitimate budgetary demands that quickly claim anticipated revenues, the Planning and Priorities Committee, with the support of the Administrative Cabinet, agreed to set aside about $150,000 (approximately 1/6 of the tuition increase for 1977-78) to be devoted exclusively to the support of curricular enhancement, educational innovation, and individual scholarly pursuit by students for the 1977-78 acad•emic . year. In order to assure that financial support for such endeavors would be sustaining, the Committee also tentatively proposed that 2% of projected total tuition revenue be alletted to the Foundation in each ensuing year, with the understanding that all unexpendecl funds would be carried over. Developme,nt of the Proposal The fact that such a substantial amount of money ($150,000) was set aside to support future curricular enhancement at Union, in the absence of specific. plans for implementation of the program, is indicative of the sense of conviction of the members of the Planning and Priorities Committee and the Administrative Cabinet that the College had to commit itself to strengthening an already-strong academic program. During the Spring, Summer, and Fall of 1976 members of the Planning and Priorities Committee worked through several drafts of the proposal to establish the Internal Educa- tional Foundation (as the curricular enhancement and educational innovation fund came to be called). During the past ten months various drafts of the proposal have been reviewed by the Educational Policy Committee, the Administrative Cabinet, the Student Forum, Department Chairpersons, and individual members of the faculty, as well as by Planning and Priorities Committee members. After weighing the comments received from these diverse constituencies, the Planning and Priorities Committee has submitted to the College Senate a formal proposal to establish an Internal Educational Foundation at Union College. Implementation It is proposed that the Internal Educational Foundation be administered by a Foundation Board, chaired by the Dean of Faculty and with representation from the faculty and student body. The Foundation Board would have the responsibility for evaluating proposals, allocating financial support, and mon\toring in two major program categories. The first program category, which must be approved by the Planning and Priorities Committee and other appropriate standing committees of the College, includes programs with a College·wide impact and which would be expected to be long- lasting. Examples of programs in this category include the establishment of an honors colleg~, a visiting scholars-in- residence program, and an Educa,. tiona! Enrichment Program. The latter would provide a selected number of exceptional candidates for adlllission with a merit award which would be held in trust to be used to finance independent scholarly investigation under the supenision of a faculty member. The second major program category would include projects which are more limited in scope and duration but which demonstrably involve curricular enrichment. educational iruiova- tion, and scholarly pursuit. Exam pies of such projects include: release time for faculty to develop new courses (e.g., as part of sorue new General Education. program); financing of activities which would enhance the con- ventional classroom experience (.e.g., class travel, film rentals, guest speakers); expenses associated with scholarly, independent research by students under the guidance of a faculty adviser (.e.g., support for thesis research, summer research .F, employ~nent, ~ travel to profe!l- sional conferences by students· who have done joint research with faculty). In this funding category the Foundation Board might itself formuJate certain programs which it determines to be important to the enrichment of Union's educa- tional program and solicit propoSJls from the campus. In establishing the two major program categories, the Planning and Priorities Committee sought to respond to the need for a comntitrnent to longer-term programs which will stimulate and nlp.port intellectual curiosity and schvJarly pursuit at Union (Category I) and also to provide financial s.._pport for curricular change and enhancement (Category 2) of a shorter-term but . equally important nature. The relative extent of funding of the two categories of programs will depend primarily on the proposals which are submitted to the Foundation Board. The Senate faces a proposal either this term or early next term that tnay be of greater educational import than even the NESCAC Division I issue Which vexes th.e campus. The proposal has originated from the Planning and Prl()rities Committee and has been dubbed the \Internal Educati()nal Foundation.\ We feel that it represents the sort of pmgrammatic innovation that has made Union a distinguished member of the small college ranks. Briefly, the Internal Educational Foundation m~y be described as a fund of approximately $150,000 set aside for special educational projects. Approximately 2 percent of all tuition revenue may be set aside each year for the Foundation with a carr:y·c>Ver if all the funds aren't dispensed. The projects that are funded can l;.e varied and exciting in nature. There are 3 major categ()ries; the first is committee initiated .projects, programs of innovation that key college committees would like to see developed by members of the college ,community. This ldea alone presents many exciting possibilities. It may fund special P'rofesson-in-resident programs, an honors program along th.e lines of a \Steinmetz Currictdum,\ or an \Educational Enricl1ment Fund'; which would be a certain sum of money set Dynamics of Change by Willarc;l F. Enteman The IEF has its origins in a desire to provide systematically for the change which is necessary for growth. Union sh.ould continue to commit itself to careful and thorough planning for its future One recognizable danger with thorough planning is that it can frustrate change. If programs, resources and budgets are committed for a four year cycle (which is our objective), then unless other measures ate taken, change can be frustrated before it is started and such continual frustration will lead, ultimately, to the unwillingness of people even to recommend changes. IEF is proposed as one of the .. counter-planning\ measures. In fact, as a planned program, it is ·not really counter~ planning at all; it simply is another force to work against the conservatism which may set in with some restricted kinds of planning. For example, consider the student or faculty member or committee which thinks that it has an excellent idea for ways to make Union a better college. lf that idea involves a . need for resources (money); if , those resources are already assigned for the next three or four years, then it seems unlikely the idea will be implemented and it seems likely Editorial aside for special research projects and held in trust for promising admission applicants. Hopefully, the promise of funds for research would attract the kind of high quality applicants that Union seeks. lhe other two categories are as exciting. There would be an lEF board, made up· of students, fac1,1lty, and administrators to oversee and audit all projects. The IEF board could then design projects for campus members to implement with funding from the Foundation. These educational projects, designed by community members could be work-study p r o g ram s , s c h o 1 a rl y investigations, etc. The fina:l category is perhaps the most exciting. \Campus initiated projects\ will allow students and/or faculty tQ design pr-ograms of their own choosing for funding. This would greatly enhance opportunities for independent studies, greatly benefit theses, semor science research and leaves endless possibilities open for student- faculty collaboration on research projects of mutual interest. This might go a long way towards warming up student-faculty relations on campus. Obviously, we feel that the lEf has great educational and intellectual ~erit., (which we assume is Union's primary aim as an institution). Th~re are re$idual that in the future such ideas will not be suggested. lEF would provide a receptive 1.n.1dience for such ideas. It could help fund· such ideas if they had sufficient merit. It would also 'be a review board to evaluate sugge~tions for their relative _and I or ;;tbsolute me.rit. Procedurally, the College would set aside certain funds in each· year's budget. Those funds would . !,e used for encouraging · the presentation of such ideas by providing a potential $ource of funding. Merit scholarships, educational enrichment funds for special students, honbrs colleges, special curricular pr:ogr.ams~ special courses, educational programs for improvement of student life, help with .student researc;h, etc. would all be appropriate for application to IEF, at-least in their early stages of implementation. The word •education' is 'to be t!lk;en b~oadly in jts meaning. lt sho ... ld inciude both classroom education support and supp<)rt for educational activities outside the cla~tsroom . lf we expect our students to grow and develop, we should introduce them , to faculty . and other people who grow . an9 develop. We might also give the:m an exa:mple of an institution - Union College- which can grqw also. benefits, an IEF is. the sort of program that r€cruits exciting intellectual stu.dents for admissions to Union, It boosts our standing in academic circles. In short, it gives Union the kind of prestige and pride that it cannot attain from· cheap public relation gimmicks. The !EF is the kind of program that an Admissions Staff and Public Relations Director can use to attract the type of student Union needs. As always, residual benefits should not be dwelled upon. Union is afll intellectual .. community. The IEF provides funds and opportunities for scholarly pursuits by faculty and students unequalled at any other small college. It is the. first major educational proposal that the Senate faces this year, let's hope that they pass it and start Union on the road to being \the most exciting and attractive small college in the nation.'' We know discussion on the IEF won't be as heated or as widespread as debate has been on. athletics. This is a shame because it . is a far tnore serious matter. We . hope Dt. Bonner and student and faculty Senators vigorously endorse new programs of intellectual innovation and unanimously supp.ort the Internal Education Foundation. -

