d d n e e ·- •.· ... \; '. .. ~ . ~ ·~. C . ~ . . . ~ .. 0 ... ··- c: = .., . . .Volume 106, No. ·21 May 4,1977 Student Elections Set JiO Student Forum President, Jim Trump ' by SARA SIMMONS The number of students around · campus with that \would l lie to you?'' l'ook . in their eyes . bearing petitions are fair warning of the upcoming student elections. B.allots for President, Vice~ President, and Secretary of the S~udent Forum, as well as Class Representatives and a student Trl,lstee wHl be cast on Tuesday, May 17, with a run-off to be held on Thursday, May 19. · To all those students confused a,s 1 was, Concordy offers a brief description of the offices to which we will soon be electing and/or elected tepresentatives: The position of Student Trustee is' certainly an influential on~. Otfe sophomore is voted in each year to serve flS a voting member of :the Board. Trustees serve a Committee. two-year term which puts on one . The Vice-President is junior member with the existing ' responsible for the general senior member. The job of. administration of student Trustee includes a jaunt to New activities, committees and York City four times during the /organizations. He/she serves as year to represent student interests I chairman of the Committee on at the formal meetings. ln light of Committees. The term of this the recent news. of Trustee ~ office is also for one year and actw1t1es it is obvious that respansibilities also include a Trustee-ship is a full-time job. vot,ing seat on the Senate and the The Student Forum is the position of second-in-command student governance organization of the Forum. consisting of its officers, class The job of Forum Secretary is representatives, and Tax to record activities of the Forum Committee head. and its subdivisions and to make The President heads the this information available to the Student Forum for a one-year ~ student body. He/~he is also a term. He/she presides at all member of the Audit (Tax) and meetings, is a voting member of Agenda Committees during the the All College Senate, and a one-year term of office. member of the Senate Agenda In addition to these officers the Class Representatives will be elected on May I 7. Two present Women's Week Spurs Interest freshmen are elected to represent the sophomore class on the following year's Forum. The candidates for junior class representative serve a two-year term; representing their class as juniors and again as seniors. Additionally, the class representative receiving the most votes from each class (3) serves on the Committee on Committees. This past. weelc:, from April 22 through April 28, \the Women's Caucus and the President's Commission on the Status of Women co-sponsored Women's Week 1977. For the third time in four years, all members of the campus community were _invited to .. e~p-~fienc~ tl!,e expressions, ac;tipns' _ana . 8:ci'iieveO:ients by women.'' . if it is coed in reality or merely in name. Women's Week 1977 was designed to be a beginning - the Women's Caucus is the means to continue the initiative. All women on campus are invited to .submit suggestions or feelings Qn the caucus to Gem Mitchell, BQx #291. The Caucus also wishes to e>tpress its gratitude to all those involved with Women's Week and aU who have shown their support i:n the past. Conf7rence. on the Masculine Barbara Walters on the Today Mysttque 111 .1974; served two :Show twice, the Tomorrow Show, years on the Board of NOW in. Not For Women Only (four New York City; coordinated, .times), CBS Morning News, The nat~onwide, NOW~s T~sk Force Mike Douglas S)low, The Phil on. Masculinity and organized ·Donahue Show (six times), on nume_rous . demonstrations' ABC, CBS~ and NBC's Evening oppos1ng the use of men ~s · News Shgws repeatedly and on \success objects\. He, has run hundred-s o.f radio shows from the weekend consciousness-raising National Public Radio to The groups at Georgetown University Voice of America. ·· A wide variety of programs designed to provide something of interest for all were 6ffered throughout the week. All who participated in or attended any of the scheduled activities gained a deeper insight and an increased awareness of the role of women at Union College and in society at large. The activities for the week covered a wide variety . <1f offerings and included an Intellectual Cabaret with Dean. Brownlee, a Women's Studies Program Discussion, and A sse rti ve ness Training Workshops. Each was desigl)ed to promote an increased appreciation of the ideas of liberation and greater recognition of the plight of women today. An effort was made to relate the particular problems experienced by female students at a coeducational institution with · those .of women in. society in general. Farrell Speaks Dr. Warren Farrell, the nation's foremost spokesperson for men's liberation and author of the highly acclaimed book, THE LIBERATED MAN: FREEING MEN AND THEIR RELA TIONSHI'PS WITH WOMEN '(Random House, 1974), spoke during Women's Week at Union College on Wed .• April 27th. Dr. Farrell has travelled over 100,000 miles from the U.S. to the U.S.S.R. and started more than 150 men's and joint groups. He organized the first National and at the lnstltute for Rational Living in. New Yot;k City in add.itifln to conducting · a Management Awareness Program for government and industry. One of Farrell's themes is \ ... part of men's liberation is gaining the depth that job specialization has to offer without being trapped by it.\ He received his Ph.D. in Political Science although his book, THE UBERA TED MAN, is psychosociologicaUy based. He ,presently teaches the Sociology of Sex Roles at Brooklyn College of the City University of New )'ork. ln 1973 he gave qp his full~time teaching position at Rutgers for his wife's career opportunities as a White House Fellow While he continued to teach part-time. Farrell has · appeared with Trustee·s Meet One of the highlights of the week occurred on Wednesday Saturday afternoon the Special of New York. with the appearance of Warren Investigative Committee of the The Division Chairmen Farrell in workshops in the Board of Trustees met in New 1 indicated that the meeting was afternoon and a lecture in the York City. Keeping to their purely a chance to air their evening. A renowned author and promise for an expedient representative positions. Each America's foremost spokesperson investigation into the pre11ent Chairman met individually with on rnen's liberation, Dr. Farrell's governance crisis, this past the Investigative Committee. The lecture was stimulating ap.d weekend's meeting was with the Trustees gave no indication of enlightening. ~ an opportunity four , Divi.sion Chairmen. any decisions. Rather, they were that should not have been missed Concordiensis learned that the only collecting information. by anyone. Dr. Farrell's major purpose of the meeting was Two ot the Chairmen expressed theme focused on the idea of merely for info·rmatio·nal ·marked dissat1stact1on about the \people liberation\ and a do- purposes. Prof. Ed Craig, Prof. present crisis - particularly the ~mphasis. on the stereotyped roles Ken Shick, Prof. Joe Finkelstein role ··of the president in the mto which both men .and women and . Prof. Paul LeClerc handling of the recent scandals.· have been placed. His Unique ! repres~nted divisions IV -I, They both implied that the. views and perceptions provided respectively. Presi<.hmt had lost his credibility an intriguing new insight on Rum.ors ~bounde? .. as and his ability to lead the college. traditional roles in American ; speculation _patred the Dtv1s1on . The issue, one said, is no longer society. · · <?hairrnen~s trip ~nd the hockey, but one of the President's Now that Women's Week 1977 dtsappearance of a semor faculty ethics and educational is part of th.e pas~; it does not member. The .speculation philosophies. Assertiveness As part of \Women's Week\ the Women 9 sCaucus presented an Assertiveness Training Workshop on Tuesday. April 26 at 7:30p.m. The workshop, conducted by Willie Gorke, a specialist from the Albany area, met in West College Library. Assertiveness Training Workshops have recently become popular ~s more people have begun to see the constructiveness of assertiveness. The members Qf the) workshop attended this meeting for a variety of reasons, but the desire to be ·more assertive predominated. Assertiveness is a quality that falls somewhere between passivity and . Continued on Page 1 0 In the interest of an informed voting student body, Co .. eo.-diensis will print essays submitted by any student seeking a position in student .government. This statement of purpose will be printed unless the candidate has not .filed nomination papers by May 6. Such statements should be a ,maximum of 300 words in length and most be typed. It must be turned in by Monday, May 9 to the Student Activities Office. A~cording to Mrs. Marra, twelve petitions have already been turned in to her. Remember: the ·deadline for petitions is Friday, May 6. There was some confusion as to the date of the elections due to a misprint on some of the petitions. As stated above, elections will take place on 1 tuesday, May 17. Candidates, · please keep the election clean and WAIT UNTIL AFTER PARENTS WEEKEND TO 1 HANG YOUR POSTERS. mean that the issue is dead. It has concerned the appomtment of the It can only be guessed that the been s.even ·years since Union fac~lty memb_er as acting meeting ·of the entire board on became. a coeducational president. But th1s proved false as May 18 will bring some answers institution, yet manY still qu':_stion the person went to Boston instead to this explosive crisis. Women's Week speaker, Dr. Warren Farrell

' ·l . \ ~ I I 't 1' .... \ ' .... ' _Pa.~ge~2-----~--------------~-·~·-·-·~--~--~C~O~N~C~O~R~· ~D~IE~N~S~l~~~M~~~y~4~,~19~7I7----~------·----~~------------------ lob Hunting Horrors Students maT! the phones by JOHN SOLLAZZO Many of you have no doubt heard horr-or stories about job hunting, particularly from relatives (parents are the #I culprits), friends, and the news media. These stories usually deal with the composite .size of the Class of 77 and a much lower figure representing the number of anticipated openings for college graduates. An added bonus to these tales of terror comes from personal accounts of frustrated graduates from past years who remain unemployed or underemployed despite having sent hundreds of resumes and taken dozens of interviews. The big step from academia to the job world does not have to be Annual Student Phonathon This week marks the Sixth conducted from the second floor Annual Student Phonathon at of Hale House where sixteen Union College. This phonathon is phonathon teams of two members just one aspect of a full scale each call alumni all over the effort by the workers of the country. It is hoped that the college Annual Fund to raise personal approach of a phone call money to help balance the current from Schenectady will help operating budget. The money convince some of the alumni in brought in through the Annual distant parts of the country to Fund is used for increasing book help out the school collections in the library, student The caller's enthusiasm is scholarships, and faculty salaries . motivated in part by a friendly to name a few areas. competition between both Last year's Annual Fund, the individuals and teams. Prizes are 64th in the college's history, a warded in the following raised over $900,000. Over half of · categories: largest increase in this amount came from dollars pledged, most pledges contributions from 6,822 alumni, showing a dollar amount increase representing a 54% participation. over last year, and most new This year's Annual Fund hopes to pledges. Each night the break the million dellar harrier individuals leading each category and is shooting for $500,000 from ate awarded a Union College mug alumni donors. and the winning teams at the end clearly seems to be within reach after Monday nighfs record breaking total of $15,885 (this is 1 the most money ever raised in' one· night by a Union College phonathon of any sort and Tuesday's strong showing with over $5,000 pledged. Less than · $10,000 is needed in the two nights remaining. · The Annual Fund is instrumental to the survival of the college. To counte~balance the revenue brought in by the 1975- 1976 Annual Fund it would require an additional endowment of $20;000,000, an endowment that Union just does not have. In addition to the Student Phonathon held here this week, the Annual Fund raises money through other phonathons across the country. -as tra1,1matic - a horror story if you will~ as many have made it out to be. Realistically speaking, the job hunt can be dealt with most successfully if approadied as a problem to address one's education to. Ari institution like Union provides each of its graduates With the basic sk.ms to be derived from a liberal arts education. To quote an area college president, these skills include among others: ~ \how to analyze a problem where to go to find information and - how to proceed in working . out a resolution to a problem.\ 1 The ·above coupled with a \depth and facility in a pa'Tticular branch of knoWledge\ produce a soundly educated person. The problem · solving and communicative -skills one attains and refines in a liberal education can - and in many cases must - be put to use in the job search. The problem at hand seems clear - finding a job -however, there is a definite need to disect this problem in order to focus in on the many components that are involved. The central components of the ' job finding problem are - in order of importance - I. What do you want to do (not be) on your first job? 2. What can you do based on the educational, work, volunteer, and extra-curricular experience that you have had? 3. What organizations have people who are doing what you would like to and can do? If you can answer these questions, then you have a good outline for the overall p~;oblem of job hunting. If you cannot, then you rnust sit down and analyze each component as you would any challenging assignment. At the Placement Office, we can assist you with any of the three component issues above, as. well as the central issue which is: How do I get hired to do that which I am interested in and capable of doing? This particular question is addressed in the ''How To Get A Job\ mini course that is scheduled for either Wednesday, '1\.i;ay 18 or Monday, May 23 th.is semester. This. mini course deals w.ith the Job Market itself, the Hidden Job Market (which consists of · approximately 80% of the jobs available at any given tim¢ that do not reach the classified ads or public/private/school placement services or quite often personnel . c;>ffices), and it presents proven methods of tapping into this hidden job network. It is a must for seniors! The point of this article is that job. hunting for our graduating semors does not have to be a horror story. Successful ·job hunting requires a person to • extensively utilize the an!llytical, il:tformation se.eking, communicative and ;problem solving skills that are central to a liberal arts education. Many recent graduates fail to apply the very skills that they worked so hard to obtain simply because they don't view the job hunting process as a likely target for their talents. By using the resources that are available to you - internal ones that you have developed, and external ones such as the Placement Office and its programs, and [IJ..nrougbly understanding the way the job market operates - job hunting for you can be an exciting and challenging project that e&n lead you into a very rewarding first position. - The Student Phonathon was of the phonathon are awarded a organized this year by Paul . keg. Rieschick, Associate Director of Of the $900,000 raised last year Development and Director of the by the Annual Fund, $25,001 Annual Fund and by the Student · was raised by the Student Phonathon committee chaired by Phonathon teams. It is hoped that Keith Mott. The calling, from this year the students can increase 6:30 to 9:30 on Monday, May 2 that total to $30,000 during the through Thursday, May 5., 1s four-day phonathon. This goal Women's Glee A ttoins Equal· Rights by JANET CHAPMAN Washington Term· Offered After a lot of patience, hard work and devotion, Union's Women's Glee Club has risen up the ladder of equality. Next year the Women's and Men's Glee Clubs will both be directed by Professor Hugh Allen Wilson and will also be requesting similar budgets. This drastic change has long been the goal of the Women's Glee Club. Since they were formed four years ago, they have barely been given a chance to prove themselves. Given time, the women improved their quality and reputation, proving themselves worthy of equality. - The Political Scie!lce Department is offering twenty students the opportunity to spend the coming Winter Term in the nation's capital, 1 Washington D.C., serving as interns to Congressmen. This special program, comparable to a term abroad, is open to next year's. sophomores, juniors and seniors and is not limited to Political: Science majors. Applications are available in the Political Science· oflice now, The deadline fot all applications is May 20. There are three courses contained in this program: P.S.: 179 .. Internship in Washington, 1 D.C.,\ P.S. 180 \Washington D.C. internship Project,\ and·. \Museum Anthropology.. which is conducted by the Department. of Anthropology at the Smith- sonian Institute. In addition to · these there will be seminars and guest speakers. While in Washington, students will be required to devote a · minimum of three days each week to their internship. Responsi· bilities in this area will be determined by the individua;l situations, but are expected to include such duties as drafting letters to constituents, legislative research and gathering. program. information. Periodic reports are: r ,ted and a weekly journal i~ conclusion of the program. The;: cost of this program will be equivalent to the fees fer room, board, and tuition for any other · term. Housing, board, and local transportation will be provided. Students must provide their own transportation to and from Washington, D.C. Questions about this program should be directed to Professor William Daniels, Associate Professor of Political Science. All students will be notified as to the disposition of their applications prior to the conclusion of the Spring Term. Over the past school year, the Women's Glee Club grew more active and attracted ·more members. In the spring term alone, they have arranged eight c.oncerts. Last winter their group had only twenty members whereas this past . winter their numbers grew to thirty-five. True; the men have a larger Economists Meet: The New York State Union College faculty Economics Association held its presenting papers were Professors annual meetings at Union this Bruce Reynolds and Robert Ross past Friday and Saturday. of the Economics Department. Approximately 80 economists Union students presenting papers from all areas of New York and were William Glavin, Karen from neighboring states met in Huggins, Deborah Oster, and the Social Sciences building Lincoln Walworth, all senior Friday night and Saturday economics majors. morning to hear presentations of Main speaker . for the about 40 papers by professional conference was Dr. Richard economists and students. Richardson, Executive Director The Association traditionally o( The New York Economic holds its annual meetings at the Development B.oard. Dr. college of its President. This Richardson spoke' Friday night in year's President is Professor SS016 on the subject: \New Yerk: membership, but the campus ratio is about two to one. In previous years, the W onien;s Glee Club hasn't been able t() do much traveling with its limited budget. Unlike the $10,000.00 the Student Tax Committee allotted to the men, the women were given $4,000.()0 fot: the school year '76- ··n. Laura Masailo, -the Women's Glee Club's president, worked to prove the women's reputatioll deserving of a better budget by arranging more concerts. In addition to traditional concerts, the women have performed at churches and hospitals. Laura. stressed, \We feel that it's also important t6 become community minded as well as traveling to other schools.\ Campus administrators also took an ' interest. Debby Kilgus, ·Assistant Alumni Director, arranged ·.,: prepared. A major writte~ ..t ·· ,: nment is due at the Thomas Kershner, Chairman of . The State, the Region, and Union's Economics department. !Economic Change.\ · alumni club meetings to which the women traveled and sang. Starr Reagan, Special Assistant to the President, and Craig Carlson, then of Student Development, worked on the financial aspect, proposing a supplement from the President's Contingency Fund. Laura explained, ••Jn an effort to give the Wc;>men's Glee Club the opportunity to extend their reputation, the Presidemt granted us $1,600.00 ftoni his Contingency Fund.\ In past years, the women have had a part time director which presented many problems. This year, they've proven themselves worthy of treatment c<>mparable to that of the men:: similar budgets,. concert schedules, and the leader Professor Hugh Allen Wilson. 1 by CJ lfs s tennis, s sports, · bicycle have brc Union .f are nun where b system c near o~ locked r be store can bet campus, Road, t Sehenec areas o routes 1 provide campus riding is Off O! residenti and sha Center~: wl:):ich is Van Vra the righ a large Center ·• an outd and abo Schen large, a1 pond; garden, place to a train season).' up Uni< Street. McClell (one blu Price Cl travel 01 the pari A str~ past Scl Seven a a quiet Schenec reached until I intersec1 (direct!} as you road fo Some COnl.IIlUI the Pr1 club d< recycie do! 0! membe1 so far 1 Just April ; Jaekso Among items \ '!creek. were lncide1 investi~ that f1 stream. Last the ple Peter I

we the as. is: that and is or the of jobs that or this must that be a job to ing, to a any y the so nting their are ones and the its job and lead first the the !son, the to the their his have This rable and Bicycles by CINU.Y ARANOW It's spring, and along with tennis, softball, lacrosse and other sports, visible is the upsurge of bicycle riding. Many students have brought their bicycles up to Union for this last ter!ll. There are numerous places on campus where bicycles can be placed. (A system of cables was just installed near Davidson and West has a locked room. in which bicycles can be stored). Though the bicycle can be used for transportation on campus, (to and from Lenox Road, the library, the Nott etc.) Sehenectady and, the surrounding areas offer various parks and routes for the cyclist. Bicycles provide a means to get off campus and at the same time, riding is a great way to ex.ercise. Off of .Lenox Road is a scenic residential ·section with old houses and shaded streets. Also, Girling Center ~s owned by U niort College wQ.ich is just two miles down on VanVranken Ave., appearing on the right. At the entrance theFe is a large hill to climb~ Girling Center has a playground, fields, an outdoor pool (not open yet) and above all, a water fountain. Schenectady Central Park is large, and offers tennis courts, a pond; playing fields, a rose garden, a jungle gym area and a plac.e to ;get a snack. There is also a train ride around the park (in season). To get to the park, ride up Union Street until McClellan Street. Make a right turn on McClellan until Eastern Parkway (one block). Turn left and go past Price Chopper, Make. a right and travel on this road until you reach the park entrance on the right. A stretch of the Erie Canal runs past Schenectady. A visit to Lock Seven and the River Road area is a quiet ride in the outskirts of Schenectady. The Lock can be reached by riding up Nott Street until Ellis Hospital. At the intersection go up Rosa Rd. (directly on the left of the hospital as you face it.) Continue up this road for a couple miles. It will CONCORDIENSJS, May 4, 1977 Great Exercise change into Providence Ave. and heavily traf.ficked during rush then into River Rd. Go through hour). Or, go right toward the the intersection at Halltown Rd, Mohawk Mall. and up toward Knolls Atomic lh~se are just some of the Power Lab. (lf you are tired, and sights to be seen in the area. wanno head back toward Union, There are many places to find. make a. righ't on the first road at The best way to discover them is the traffic civcle and follow Van to hop on a :bicycle and ride. Antwerp Rd. back. to Union St . .--~~~ ........ ~~'-'--~~~-----: 1 or Grand Blvd. Make a right. on Tlle Student Life Committee is eithefo of these roads and you're conducting Us annu 11 1 evaluati()n heap:mg back . t?wards the of the Dean of Students. Anyone : carnpus.) lf contmmng o~ to the . wishing to testify and/or • lock, go to .the. end of R1ver Rd. · contribute rele.vant information at the traffic ctrcle. ~ake a left · should contact ol)e of the ' onto Rosendale. Rtde a:long following students: Mary ~osendale a couple of curves and Mattimore ·Box 17· Scott Klion, · etthet make a left. onto Lock • Box 16 07;' Marjori~ Kohn, .Box •. Seve.n . Rd. (the _fmt left) or 1009 • .Faculty should contact contu:lUe ~ut on R1ver Rd. for a . Arnie Bittleman, A.rts Dept. pleasant nde. Another perfect place to see is Bishop Howard Hubbard CoHins Park. Neat Jumping Jacks in Schenectady, (in case you get ht,mgry) this scenic park contains a lake and playing fields. lt <.:an be reached by cycling down Union Street until the ·very end. You are now in the Stockade Area. Make a left and the next right. Go across the bridge and make the first right after getting .off the bridge. Travel along this road and the park area is on the left. Or, if you'c;l like to see some of Scotia, head towards Collins Park and go straight after reaching the bridge; Make the first diagonal right. Travelling along this road, you'll reach Sunnyside Road. Make a right and go straight on this until Freeman's Bridge Rd. Make a. right, go over the Buzzing Bridge, take another right and ~hortly you'll recognize the Ramada Inn. There is a bike path along the Mohawk River that can he rea.ched by heading to Lock Seven; upon reaching the Knolls Atomic Power Lab, go straight and you'll run into this bike path. Another enjoyable route is to go straight Qp Nott St. until Balltown Rd. (R:t. 146). Go left on 1_46 toward Burnt Hills and FoCastle Farms. (This can be B . h v·· · ·H IS .· op ·.·I Sits · ere Howard Hubbard, the youngest bishop in the United States, spoke at Union Colle.ge Catholic Services on Sunday, May 1 in Strauss Lounge. Hubbard, age 38, was ordained bishop of the Albany diocese in eady April. Bishop Hubbard has an extensive background in community service and development in the Albany area. He helped to organi~e Providence House, a· store-front info~mation and referral center, and Hope House, a drug addiction rehabilitation center. Both centers were recommended by a Jewish- Catholic-Protestant Community Task Force on which the new bishop served. Bishop Hubbard said, \Providence House was formed as a storefront informational center, a kind of drop-in center for people to come .and share whatever problems they might be having unemployment, housing, welfare, family, or marital ~ a kind of catch-all place.\ ''Hope House was an outgrowth of the Providence House concept. We weren't in operation too long before we bega,n to realize that narcotic addiction was a very serious problem in the community,\ Hubbard continued, \~ither the addicts themselves or their family members were coming in and asking for help. To be honest, I did not know the first thing about drugs. I never used drugs before and I'd never been exposed to the drug culture. When I looked around the community, I realized there were no referral se~vices - not only in Albany, but in the entire northeast. Since no one else was responding to the problem, we determined that we had better do something. I got a crash course in how to work with drug addicts, and that's when Hope House began,\ explained the Bishop. Hubbard has also been deeply involved in interfaith worship. He has been the chairman of the Albanv Interfaith Council for the past eight years, an organization that promotes multi- denominational religious understanding and worsbip. In addition, the council tries to form community groups of all faiths to help solve and understand urban community problems. Bishop Hubbard is presently the president of Urban League, another organization founded to combat discrimination and to promote equalitv. He was the founder of LIVCORD, a committee which provides family living for mentally retarded adults. LIVCORD provides lifetime care and helps to find work for the retarded. In his homily to the students attending the Mass, Bishop ' Hubbard appealed to the interest of college students in religion and religious vocations. He commented that students are now turning back to religion for many answers they cannot find through other means. jf;~::t:§M::::::i!::::::::::::~:::::::;:::~:::::~:::::::~::::~:::::::::::::::~:::;:~~i ~~= ,~'1•· •Placement On lhursday, May 12 at 4:00 in Strauss lounge, the Union . College Placement Office will present another Career Panel Discussion. This series will feature five recent Union College graduates who are currently employed in various occupations throughout the Capital District Does More Than Recycle 1 ne participants will be Bob Stone, '70, Prudential Insurance; Steve Woods, '71, Public Service Agencies and Chamber of Commerce; Jim Tedisco, '72, Public School Teaching; Les Kernan, '74, Banking; and Susan Brickman, '76, Journalism with the Schenectady Gazette. These panelists will briefly discuss their jobs; how they went about finding it; what they do on the job; prerequisites needed; what a Union undergraduate should do if he/she desires a similar career. etc. After these hrief presentations, there will be a general question and answer period. Permanent and summer employment is available for graduate and undergraduate students with interests in management and operations improvements in state and local governments. Work statewide and in the Albany, New York, capital district area. Resumes should be mailed immediately. Salary is negotiable. The following preparation is preferred: industrial engineering, operations research, statistics, programming, management science and related fields. Responsible. mottvated, and entrepreneurial types are being sought. Some members of the Union community may be wondering if the Protect Your Environment club does anything else besides recycie newspapers .. You bet we do! Our small but dedicated membership has been very active so fat this spring. Just recently, on Earth Day - April 22, PYE held its annual Jackson Gardens Clean·u-p. Among the many interesting items we collected from along the '!creek. that reeks\ (e.g. garpage), were nine shopping carts; lncidenta.lly, the club is investigating the source of the oil that frequently pours into the stream. Last Wednesday night, we had the pleasure of hosting a talk by Peter Berle, Commission~r of the State Department of Environ- mental awareness is becoming mental Conservation. Mr. Bel'le more of a. necessity than a nice talked about his experience in cause. He felt that strong environmental politics. He executive leadership was needed pointed out that conflict often from either the governor or the oceurs between those conceined President, along with modifi- with the environmen,t and an cations of American lifestyles. A organized economic interest. Yet · discussion ensued on whether We the arguments used by these needed a slow transition, or else a businesses are often over- \hard knock,\ to get us to change exaggerated and simply wrong. our ways. He expressed regret that he was Elsewhere on the political forced to ban fishing for salmon scene, the PYE club did some in New York State, because of the lobbying for mandatory deposit discovery of mylex in their tissue laws for beverage containers. - despite the effort to proih()te Mike Rehr and Kevin Schary fishing and tour:ism in the Lake went to a heating in Albany, on Ontario region. The industry Wednesday, April 27, to voice our involved had ••co-copted\ Lake support for bottle-deposit Ontario - in other words, used legislation. the resource as if they owned it. . . Mr. Berle reflected that ''the The PYE ·club has be~un 1ts easy issues .are gone\ - environ- own bottle recycling with the help ... - ·- of Angelo Mazzone and the Pub. StUdents are urged to save their bottles and cans for recycling - the package room of Carnegie will be open every Thursday from 4-6 in the afternoon for that purpose. And last of all, PYE is still recycling paper. Last Friday we collected over 1900 lbs. We thank everyone for contributing and encourage others to save their. papers. Ali paper products are acceptable, except absolutely NO CARBON PAPER (carbott paper causes black spots in the recycled product). If you need a recycling ·box on your floor call Kevin Schary (346-9582) or Phyllis Morse (6481). Our next meeting is Wednesday, May II, at 7:30 in Strauss lounge for anyone interested in our activities. If you are interested in a full- time Management Sales Position, no experience required, except a technical background, please mail your resume to Marlene Murphy at Anefco, Inc. (a Nuclear Engineering Co., 222 Mamaroneck Ave., White Plair • .:~, N.Y. 10605).

Page4 CONCORJ)JENSJS, May 4, 1977 culture arttJ Altdroeles and the Lioit Arrive Would you believe - a bunch of antiquarian Jesus freaks? Would you believe .~ a touch of the 1960's hippie idealism in the time of Caesar'! No? , .. Well, how about... Would you believe Matt Lubart as the lion.'! Lucky devils, you can believe aU of it. It's all part of Androcles and the Lion, Union's first dinner theater, a,ppearing in the Directors' Lab Theater on May II, 12, 13. Androcles is the story of the Christians facing the lions in the Scene from Androcles and the Lion Cabaret Dead Not Dead Yet So you haven't laughed in four months. Administrative scandals got you down'! Comp. Ed. Professors torturing your brain? You can't figure out your hopelessly muddled future'! Student Government making you more and more apathetic'! Good, we're glad. You're ready for a strong re- dose of Thursday and friday Night Dead. ' So you got screwed out of tickets during eur last sell-out when we sent the Cabaret into gales of mirth and swirls of controversy? Well we're doing a two night stand this time around. Our mothers hated those one night stands. Films This Week ls nothing sacred, you ask'! To which we reply, \Hell no!\ This is all new stuff, penned by Dave Moskowitz, Joe Millet,. Matt Brief, Les Goldstein, and Gary Glauber. All your old favorites are returning including Beatty, Lavendor, Murphy, Marko\Yitz and Novak. There are new additions to the cast, namely Adele Reichiinger and Paul Castrataro. didn't get tenure at Union College and is sucking blood ef coeds in Jackson's Gardens~'). The riotous game show, \What's Academics?\ commercials, public service announcements, a Gatesman tout, and o'f course the short play destined to become a Cabaret classic, the obnoxiously hilaFious \Final Days of Thomas Neville Bonner\ guaranteed to induce administration libel suits agai~st the writers. And there is so much more. This is the last blow out in the Cabaret before Finals. In fact, after \Dead\ the Cabaret will be forced to shut down. On May 6, 7 and g the Film Committee will present the Marx Brothers-- in the classic comedy, \Horsefeathers.. (1934). In this one, broucho plays the president of a college who lets academics go to pot while he tries to buy . football players to strengthen the school team. Sound familiar? \Tomorrow says Groucho, \we I start tearing down the college!\ But where will the students sleep? \Where they always sleep - in the classroom!\ Includes the famous \What's the password?\ sequence. Friday at 10:00, Saturday and Sunday at 7:00, 9:00 and 11:00. On Tuesday, May 10, the Film Committee will.present \Patton one 'Of the all-time classic WWII films. Was Patton a lunatic or· a military genius? George C. Scott gives no definite answer in, his Oscar.,.winning performance. There is also an excellent performance by Karl Malden as Omar Bradley, Patton's wartime friend. Shown at 7:00 and 10:00. Rosencronz & Gildernstern · Tom Stoppard's comedy Rosencrantz and Guildenstern Are Dead will be presented by t~e Mountebanks for only four · nights, May 20·23, in the Nott Memorial Theatre, starting at 8:00 p.m. The box. office will open on May 10. When the play opened on Broadway ten years ago it was hailed by every major critic as one of the most exciting pieces of theatre ever wr.itten. It is a funny, frightening, moving play that tells the story of two minor characters in .. Hamlet.\ They serve no function, play no role, and at times doubt their ow.n existence. Every time they think they are getting close to the truth, they forget their own names.· In the end they are put to death with no, knowledge of their effectiveness, and no explanation of the ultimate question, ''Why'?\ .. Roger Summerhayes and Chris A committee has been ·~ convened for the purpose of conducting a third-year evalu- ation of Professor Yu Chang. Stude11ts and faculty interested in contributing · statements concerning the teaching. scholarship, and contribution of Professor Chang to U nlon College are invited to send letters to Professor C.F. Goodheart, 'Chairman, Department of · Electrieal Engineering · and Comouter Scien~e. Chalifoux olav the protagonists Rosencrantz and Guildenstern (but we're not going to tell you which is which). Bill Pike plays the enigmatic role of the Player, and Rich Amaraian plays Hamlet. Also in the Union College production are Chuck Holleman, Gary Haber, Allison Donenfeld, Laurie Williams, Rob Imrie, Ben Dibble, Dave Dunham, Dave Schroder, Dave Beguin, Dan Rosenbaum, and Dave Robinson. l'he production, directed by Joseph Millett, promises to be one of the most chilling and funniest events in the last four years. Seating will be limited, so you are urged to get your tickets early. Rosencrantz and Guildenstern Are Dead by Tom Stoppard is one of the most fascinating and enjoyable plays of the past ten years, and the production will be just as exciting. Students and other members of the college community who desire to contribute mfor- imi.tion concerning the third- ~ear evaluation of Phillip ' Snow, of the Chil Engineering Department, are invited to • speak to any member of the ~ommittee which consists of !Professors Robert Schaefer, !Chemistry Department; Peter Tobiessen, Bi.ology Department, or Gilbert !Harlow; Civil Engineering !Department. Some of our satire is subtle, lots is offensive, all is hilariously funny. We advise those who are squeamish, bookworms, or just nice to stay out of the Cabaret June 2nd and 3rd. We d<m\t know what the ticket policy is, we don't care, we're dead. But not dead yet. Okay, you're begging us to reveal some of our brand. new comic goodies. Pieces. of avant- garde drama like the biting satire, Nottcula (subtitled \Dracula May14 U .. · n1on June 2nd, June 3rd, Thursday and f<'dday at the Cabaret, \Dead~' will be rejuyen~ted, :you Will be oftended¥by·:satire more· wicked than any Science Comp. Ed'. You'll die laughing. And pay for the pieasure. · Thursday arid Friday Night Dead, June 2nd and Jrd·, coming soon to the Cabaret. College Achilles Rink Tickets: Call 37G-6118 Advance Union I.D. $4.00 GeneraiPublic 6.00 At Door Union I.D. 5.00. GeneraiPublic 7.00 Colosseum. But these are not just any Christians. These are G. B. Shaw's Christians, which makes them unique. There's Ferrovious, a warrior 'convert with a love for Christ he'! hopes is as strong as his love of a good fight. Lavinia is another one of the Christians, and she is a Hippy patrician lady determined .to go off tilting at windmills, and become a martyr at the same time. Androcles is the traditional animal-mad martyr, Christianized :and dancing with his 'lion(the aforementioned Matt Lubart). These three, with the addition of various parasites, an emperor, clowns, and a handsome captain, face their deaths with their own brand of faith strengthening them. ln the process, each learns something about their gods, and themselves. The cast list includes: the lion ................ :Matt .i.:ubart Androcles ..... Dwight Moynihan Magaera ........... Melinda Mesick Captain ................... Peter Sears Lavinia ............ Mary Mattimore Spin tho .................. Paul Breene Ferrovious ..... Chuck Holleman Caesar. .............. Rob Magaziner Centurion .. , .............. Tony Balio Metellus ............... Marc Gottleib Menagerie keeper .Don LoCasio .. Lentulus ............. Rich Guardian Ensemble .... Beth Karlin, Jamie Scholtz, Ayala Rahimi. Diane DiFranco ' Bruce Cohen is directing the show, and Meg Holzel is stage managing. \fhe· show will go up May II. 12, -~~d ·1 y·'at 6:00 p.m. I he dinner will be cater.ed by the Dutch Hollow Pub, and will include complete hot and cold . .i)uffets with beef tips and chicken as entrees. Call 370-6 I 18 lor tickets and infMmation. a1 Theda: Musician! stage is marks W and pm festival \1 Schenecta Committe the Dea Housing I m.aintenar student P· band toge to pre11en and nov• afternoon, will roar que ac Committe• replete w surprises. and . froli stars in fr At 6:0 Featured finest f• musicians, the pOS! infamous Flaming I be asseml with the I sit hack ; open air 1 At 10:0 Like a de· The a11 works of arts majc May · 7 Museum 12. A put artists wil from 9 to 6. Rep res } Artist, Suzi G \Progres1 May 4 lecture, Mellon Lecture : be at ·8 p the Coll1 the publi Profes! at the if has wri \Progres! art, -like order; an called pt defines s1 of aesthe . BUSH Stuf $25.~ lmm s Envel 10~ 8ost

just B. for his is at the the an the ick ars ner .. 1an mi. the II. I he the will tor Weststock Nears The day is rapidly approaching. Musicians an; tuning up and the stage is almost set. May 28th marks West$to«:k, Union's latest and possibly greatest spring festival which Will light up the Schenectady sky. The Social Committee, the Film Committee, the Dean of Student!!, the Housing Director, the Pub crew, maintenance and most of all' the will fall and Union:s Film Committee will prese01t \Woodstock a classic film about the 60~s pilgrimage to Bethel,· New York, by hoards ·of long.:haired ''freaks\. It will .be presented at I :00 a.m. Free beer and munchies will be dispersed. The music and acts will continue. When does it all end? Well, we figure the talent will go on until five or six in the morning. To welcome in the dawn, donuts and several batches of Tequila Sunrises will be served courtesy of CONCORDIENSIS. 1-.fay 4, 1977 Page5 culture Crown Heights Affair student performers are going to band together with ~the WestRA's to present this spectacular gala and novel event. The entire afternoon, Saturday, May 28th will roar with grandiose Bar .. b- que action. The SoCial Committee will head the feast, replete with beer, burgers and surprises. The campus will rollick and . frolic: under- the sun and stars in front of West Collel!e. Angelo Mazzone and the Dutch Hollow Pub~ By then all will sleep throue:h Sunday May 29th. How much will the extravaganza cost you? N otbing, ·Of course. We just ask you to Crown Heights Affair At 6:00 the music ' begins. Featured acts included Union's finest folk singers, electric musicians, the Jazz Ensemble and the possible return of the infamous Chester Arthur and the Flaming Aces. A giant sta,ge will be assembled in front of West, with the lights turned up all· can sit back and soak the tunes in open air bliss. At 10:00 the music will break. Like a deux et machina, a screen come to the front of West, Saturday afternoon prepared to frolic, watch some great Union talen.t, see \Woodstock\ munch ·and drink, and just sle~p on West Beach under the stars with the Union Stars. Incidentally, there are a few slots left for Union performers. Contact any R.A. in West if you•re interested in helping us. Make Union College a festival for one day and one .night. The \Crown Heights Mfair,\ an eight-member band from the Bedford Stuyvesant neighborhood of Brooklyn, will bring its brand of soul, pop and jazz. to Vnion ColJege's Memorial Chapel Thursday, May 5 at 9 p.m. The eight-member band, best known for its hit single \Super Rod,\ and its new album \Do It Your Way,\ was formed six years ago. They were discovered when two producers passed the Student Exhibit The annual exhibition of the works of senior . Union College arts majors will open Saturday, . May · 7 at the Schenectady Museum and run through June 12. A public reception for the . artists will be held at the Museum from 9 to 10:30 p.m. Friday, May. 6. . Represented in the show will be ProgresS Sally S. Eckhoff, Jill A •. Korostoff, Jane Levine, and Marla Wax. Every visual arts major at Union must have an exhibition of his or her work as a prerequisite to graduation. The · students are given two terms to prepare their · work, which they do specifically ·for this shoW. Sally Eckhoff will show figure • Art zn Artist, art historian, and author art embodies modes of thinking Suzi Gablik. will · Speak on which develop from the concrete ''Progress in Art\ Wednesday, to the abstract and complex. May 4 at Union College. Her- lhe growth of artistic styles, lecture, part of the Andrew she believes, is related to Mellon Faculty Development tran~formations in modes of Lecture Series at the college, .will thinking. Here model is based on be at ·8 p.m. in Strauss Lounge in principles of deveiopmental the College Center. It is free to psychology advanced by the Swiss the public, ' experimental psychologist Jean P;ofessor Gablik, who teach~s at the if n1versity of London and has written a book titled \Progress in Ar.t,\ believes that art, ·like science, has a history, order; and structure which can be called progressive. However, she defines such progress not in terms of aesthetic value but in the way . BUSINESS OPPORTl)NITY Stuff Envelopes $25.00 ·PER HUNDRED Immediate Earnings Send $1.00 To: Envelopes Dept~ 22 & 102 Charles Street 8oston,Mass. 02114 (, i ', 1 \ .& ., ~ .. . ; !, ..... , ~ • ' \' \\ 'i fll 1< \\ l \ .. :.. .._ !l. . \< lr. ~ ..t .. \ l •' IS 'I Piaget. Professor Gablik will speak on .. Magritte and the Idea of the Modern~' earlier in the day. That lecture, also free, will be at 12:30 p.m. in Old Chapel. Professor Gablik is the author of a monograph, \Magritte and .co-author of .. Pop Art ~edefined.\ FOR YOlJR MOTHER'S DAY FLOWERS- John J. Gallo Your Downtown Florist 96 JAY ST. ( opp. City ilall) Dial 346-4487 SCHENECTADY ';. 1 I i ... drawings and still life paintings. Jill Korostoff will show photographs and graphics. Jane Levine will show drawings and pastels. Marla Wax will show photographs and silkscreens. The Schenectady Museum is open Tuesday through Friday from 10 a.m. to 4:30 p.m. and from noon to 5 p.m. on Saturday and Sunday. To· all those interested in purchasing ·the 1981 Freshman Record: Due to financial strains on our : budget this year. we are asking all thfi)se interested in · purchasing · · the Freshman Record. to order. their copies now. To accomrnodate our expense budget, requests made in advance and paid in full will be honored. Again, there will be a choice between hard or soft covered books. The price differential is as follows: $6.00 for hard covered and $5.00 for soft covered (per copy). .,. . Reminder: there will be NO EXTRA Freshman Records. So order your copies now! Please send the below order form with your check to Freshman Record(campus mail) Nam· ' Addr--- Phon~ No. of Copi'\\ Hardcover Softcovu Amollnt End~d Make checks payable to Union College ~Freshman Record 1981 basement where the young band was playing. At the time, the a.veragt; age of its members was only 19.· Under the tutelage of the producers, Frieda Nerangis and Vernon Britton, the band has developed its musical style \into a dynamic overall sound\ which $3 at Rolling Records in Schenectady and at the Union College Student Activities Office, . and fer $4 at the door. Tickets to Union College students and faculty with ID's are $2.50 in advance and $3.50 at the door. ~------------------------1 ranges from Chicago-style jazz Tickets for th~ Fantastiks go on · . and blues, West Indian reggae, ·sale Mollday. Performances are and folk music. ' on May 16-19, and 25w28. Call Tickets to the general public 3.7D-6153 for information. may be purchased in advance for REACH \i love you,\ rings the rain In my heart, damp like meadows In the sun dew morns. Light 'stars reflect off the tears In my eyes as I turn round And round, spinning in the flight Of some small woodland bird. And like the sun that rips my heart With its brilliant golden swords, Like the moon that freezes my soul With its gorgeous, pale indifference, You are beyond my reach, farther than the rings of Saturn Turning in the endless night Like the far gleaming planets afloat in black indifference Above my leaden heart. -Jan De Deka . Send your poems to Dehmne Stageman, Fine Lines l£ditor, box 1738. Any legible work is welcome. Please give your name and phone no.; poems will be printed unsigned if requested. Let's hear from YOU! · The PENNY PINCHER QUALITY CLOTHES- LOW PRICES USED BUT NOT ABUSED CURRENT STYLES 1122 ALTAMONT AVE. (Entrancef]Jerel~e St.) Tuesday - Saturday 10.5 Thursday's till 9 p.m. 356·2571 Union Pharmacy 600 Union St. Men & Women Student Needs 374-3605 LUKE'S SUPERMARKET 830 EASTERN AVE. 8 AM-IOPM 7 DAYS Full line of deli, cold beer and soda, produce and grocery. Alaur Liquor Center l.Jquors- ·wines- Cordials 751% EASTERN A..VE. · COilNEil JACKSON LOWEST PRICES ALLOWED IN . N.Y.STAT.E'

. . \, '~ .. ~. ~ ' .... ._,. \ t \ ' ··~ • ·~ Page 6 · CONC0.8DIEN$/S, May 4, 1977 EDITORIALS' Elections For the first time in qui~e a while there are also many students willing to attack these issues head on as eviden-ced by the great interest in campus political offices as election time draws near. There is still time, however, to turn in petitions and get your name on this year's ballot. . We at Concordiensis urge all concerened and interested students to tqke advantage of these last few days and get their petitions in. Let's not have un-contested or little contested races for what are now obviously important positions .. Recent events of this past academic year have shown just how necessary and unreplaceable these· officials are. We are in nee<! of strong leaders this year especially as the next few years will mote than likely be a trying time for Union, its students, faculty, administrators and all others concerne~ with the school. We also urge all students to excercise their right to vote in the election on M!IY 17 and the runoff election on May 19. Not only must we all vote hut we must vote intelligently. The days of voting for a candidate because he happened to come by your room and talk must end. The issues must be clearly defined and the positions of these candidates on these issues must he spelled O\lt and understood by all. Make spre you know the problems affecting both you personally and the College. Most importantly, use· this next week to take the time to know all the candidates, know their positions and choose that person who most closely allies him/herself with your own personal beliefs. Now is the time; don't waste it! Questions Dear Dr. Bonner, - Does your \Educational Philosophy\ coincide with that of the Faculty and the Students? (See the Gen. Ed. Proposal) - Does the support of the Schenectady community come above the integrity of the college? - Do the Alumni really support Division l hockey at the expense .?f the stability of the college? (Ask the Alumni office) - Do your ethical standards, i.e. conceptions of right and wrong, represent those currently sanctioned by our society? - Are your educational ~t&ndards congruent with those of a Liberal Education here at Union? (Study Union's history) - Given your effectiveness as President has been eroded by the scandals surrounding admissions and governance, isn't your resignation in proper order? Moratorium Now that the ··Moratorium on all actions afid communications relating to the current controversies on campus\ seems to have been officially lifted, we as editors of Concordiensis would like to express our thanks to all those who accepted the position that we took on thi11 issue. We feel that it is important at this point in time to explain our reasons for supporting this obvious infringement on our right to a free press; The moratorium was officially declared Saturday night, April 16, following the TIU:stee meeting of that day. On the morning of the 18th, the Editors of this paper spoke with Committee Chairman Dr. Lee Davenport concerning our role in this moratorium. At that time, Dr. Davenport ex.pressed his wishes that Concordiensis would tho,roughly review the cofittoYetsies and keep the situation in context. He felt that in order for his committee to make any real progress it was necessary to keep campus conversations centered solely on the facts and not malicious rumors .or conjecture. Dr. Davenport hoped that widespread support of the moratorium would help to resolve the problems facing the school and continuing this support throughout the committee's work would be in the best interest of the College. Since that first conversation of April 16, the Editors have been in close contact with Dr. Davenport. V'{e think that it is likely tltat a statement will be released following the Executive Board meeting of May 18th. As Editors and students we sincerely hope that our support aided the committee in resolving the problems of the College. All Parents: · Welcome to Union College We Hope You Enjoy Your Visit ~· I THE CONCORDIENS1SS.TAFF 1 Dorms: by KOKO STlM I think most Unio~ College students, especially durin8 lottery week, have wondere~: what it might be like to live in a dorm other than their own. From listening to the opinions of severaJ 'students living in different <forms:' l have been able to gather :information on what students com;ider the good and bad points of each dorm. - For the women on campus who 1 plan to cook, Richmond or North seem to be two good choices. Both dorms have lo\lfi8es with good cooking facilities. Most of the rooms in Richmond tire adequately sized doubles and those rooms with the southern exposure have a nice view of the campus. North has fewer doubles but the few doubles it has are about twice the size of a Richmond double. Both dorms also have sever.al study ·cubicles. North is physically nicer than Richmond in terms of room size and the wall-to-wall carpeting in .each room, but there · .. seems to he less of the openness and the casual friendliness that exists in Richmond. One R.A, said that North tends to be cliquey and probably better for upperclass women with established friends. Richmond is relatively quiet but North is quieter and mote conducive to studying. As for the men of Union who do not wish to hear females gossipping in the hallways and would prefer to do their own gossipping in their own hallways, South college and Wel>ster house are two good possibilities. In South, · each floor has a large lounge between the twa sides. Having the lo11nge in the middle probably helps to bring the whole floor together as opposed to the lounges in Richmond which are on the two opposite ends of the floor and tend to separate the floor socially as well as physically. . . Where to Live S01.iib ·is weU-kept and ·the 9nly · · West College is for those who disadvantages are that it has no . want doubles as well as coooed cool'dn~ facilities and ~he living. The second and third furnitufe. in the rooms :is not. of floors ire co-ed -by wing and the the ~est·quality. Webster House fourth. .floor is co-ed by .room and compared to South is much co~d by bathroom. there .are no smaJler, housing about_ eighty lo1.111ges but there are lounge-like p(~ple .and, as a result, fewer areas in the ·middle of each floor. .ptpPle share the spacious lounge .1here a~n't any cooking facilities ariel well-equipped' kitchens. The but many people cook. in their social atmosphere is friendly and rooms and. Saga is right below people are able ·to get to know (this may or may not be each other 'better. One resident of advantageous)., Phy:sicaJly, West Webster said that you ~n'' lea:ve does not seem to have been as your things around · the house well~kept as some of the other without worrying about having dorms but the social advantages them stolen. He also said that he make up for the physical finds .Webster to be quiet .enough disadvantage. People are very to be able to get sotl;le work done. friendly and there is a lot of social For those who believe in co- interaction that goes on. and of educationalism beyond the course the rooms in West which classroom, Davidson, Fox., and face ·campus. have the best views. West should be on ·your list. If The dorms described in this you have not one, but three article are nQt the only places to people with whom you would .like live as there are other alternatives. ·to live with, a suite in either Other places to live o,n ~ampus Davidson or Fox could be the :are McKean (houses 13 women), answer. A suite has two small Hickok (co-ed, also houses the bedrooms and a lounge, hut you B.SA.), Smith and Bronner lhijst prov·ide your own cooking (N Qrth Co-op), which are both facilities.' The corner suites, which co-ops, apartments in different are ilike apartments, are much do.-ms and you can even choose larger than the average suite. and to 'live off-campus. are really very nice but are Most of the people I've talked understandably in much demand. to seem to like where they live, Those who prefer not to live on a especially upperclassmen who co-ed floor can also live in suites. have chosen to live where they Davidson has one women's floor are. Many wish that squatter's and four men's floors. Fox has rights still existed. At least the two women's floors and three housing options have remained men's floors. Both dorms have pretty much- the same and only one coooed floor. Because of everyone will still have a relatively the physical construction of a wide variety ·of dorms to choose suite, people· tend to be .somewhat from. 1 more socially self:..contained within their · own suite. One female r~sident said she enjoyed living there but did camplain that a,side from the . ou~side · doors being Joc.ked at night then~ is· no security. She felt that it is not very practical for the first floor to be all female considering that the location of the · building makes Davidson vulnerable to· intruders. IMPORTANT MEETING ALL SENIORS Wednesday, May 11, 1977 11:30 a.m. MEMORIAL CHAPEL <:ommencement details and activities of graduation -weekend will be announced. Tl There on Unio are fun~ Commitl not bee affilia1io Student for the I approxir the Chri ftinded membe (I nten Associat 1976-77. J.S.O. Organiz~ funded Schenecl about ll It is investiga appare11 allotting seven ti another com para and 2) t groups VI not fun1 of their Befo investiga to state' In no 'WI one grm into the Commit policy. 1 the a~ allocatio Tax Co our que encomp< left to experien funds. t rationalt of not t similar s not the funding a questi' other c1 such as Fellows! received One~ provide Blacks 1 campus. activitie com pens result fr the hem Included concerts. andmm occurrin: Althoug to the designed creatin conduci1 Blacks c campus. The I a fra

Page 6 CONCORDIENSIS, May 4, 1977 EDITORIALS Elections rot the first time in quite a while there are also many students wtlling to attack these issues head on as evidenced by the great interest in campus political offices as election time draws near. I here is still time, however, to turn in petitions and get your name on this vear's ballot. We at· Concmdiensis urge all concerned and i·nterested students to take advantage of these last few days and get their petitions in. Let's not have un-contested or little contested races for what are now obvtously important positions. Recent events of this past academic year have shown JUSt how necessary and unreplaceable these o!ltcials are. We are in need of strong leaders this year especially as the next lew years will more than likely be a trying time for Union, tt~ student~. !acuity, administrators and aH others concerned with the school. W c also urge all students to excercise their right to vote in the dection on May 17 and the runoff election on May 19. Not only must we all vote but we must vote intelligently. The days of voting tor a candidate because he happened to come by your room and talk must end. !'he issues must be clearly defined and the positions ot these candidates on these issues must be spelled out and understood by all. Make sure you know the problems affecting both you personally and the Coll!ege, Most importantly, use this next week to take the time to know all the candidates, know their posttions and choose that person who most closely aHies him/ herself with your own personal bel·iefs. Now is the time; don't waste it! Questions Dear Dr. Bonner, Does your \Educational Philosophy\ coincide with that of the raculty and the Students'? (See the Gen. Ed. Proposal) Does the support of the Schenectady community come above the 1ntegnty of the college'! Do the Alumni really support Division 1 hockey at the expense 9f the stability of the college? (Ask the Alumni office) Do your ethical standards, i.e. conceptions of right and wrong, represent those currently sanctioned by our society'? Are your educational standards congruent with those of a Ltberal Education here at Union'? (Study Union's history) U iven your effectiveness as President has been eroded by the scandab surrounding admissions and governance, isn't your res1gnauon in proper order'? Moratorium ~uw that the \Moratonum on all actions and communications rdattng to the current controversies on campus\ seems to have been olll<:tally lilted, we a~ editors of Concordiensis would hkc to express our thank!> to all those v. ho accepted the position that we took on tlw, t~:,ue. We lee! that it is impurtant at this point in time to explain our n:asom tur supporting this ob\ious infnngemcnt on our right to a tree pre~~: I he moratorium wa~ otfic.:ially dedued Saturda:r night, April 16, tollowmg tht: I rustee mt:eting ul that day. On the morning of the l~th, the l-.ditors ol tht~ paper spoke with Committee Chairman Dr. Lee Davenport wm:erning our ruh: in thi~ moratorium. At that ttme, Dr. Davenport expressed his \-\'ishe~ that Conc.:urdicnsis would thoroughly review the conuuversies and keep the situation in wntcxt. He lelt that m order lor his committee to make any real progrc~s 11 was necessary to keep campu!. conver!>ations centered ~olely on the facts and not malicious rumors .or conjecture. Dr. IJa venport hoped that widespread support of the moratorium would help to resolve the problem~ lacing the school and continuing this support throughout the committee's work would be in the best mterest ot the College. Stnce that hrst conversation of April 16, the Editors have been in close contact with Dr. Davenport. We think that it is likely that a ~tatement w11l be released following the Executive Board meeting of May llHh. As Edttors and students we sincerely hope that our support aided the committee in resolving the problems of the College. Welcome to Union College We Hope You Enjoy Your Visit Dorms: by KOKO STIM I think most Union College students, especially during lottery week, have wondered what it might be like to live in a dorm other than their own. From listening to the opinions of several students living in differ.ent dorms I have been able to gather information on what students consider the good and had points of each dorm. For the women on campus who plan to cook, Richmond or North seem to be two good choices. Both dorms have lounges with good cooking facilities. Most of the rooms in Richmond are adequately sized doubles and those rooms with the southern exposure have a nice view of the campus. North has fewer doubles but the few dol:lbles it has are about twice the size of a Richmond double. Both dorms also have several study cubicles. North is physically nicer than Richmond in terms of room size and the wall-to-wall carpeting in each room, bat there seems to be less of the openness and the casual friendliness that exists in Richmond. One R.A. said that North tends to be cliquey and probably better for upperclass women with established friends. Richmond is relatively quiet but North is quieter and more conducive to studying. As for the men of Union who do not wish to hear females gossipping in the hallways and would prefer to do their own gossipping in their own hallways, South college and Webster house are two good possibilities. In South, each floor has a large lounge between the two sides. Having the lounge in the middle probably helps to bring the whole floor together as opposed to the lounges in Richmond which are on the two opposite ends of the floor and tend to separate the floor socially as well as physically. Where to Live South is well-kept and th.e only disadvantages aFe that it has no cooking facilities and ~he furniture in the rooms .is not of the best quality. Webster House compared to South is much smaller, housing about eighty people and, as a result, fewer people share the spacious lounge and well-equipped kitchens. The social atmosphere is friendly and people are able to get to know each other better. One resident of Webster said that you can leave your things around the house without worrying about having them stolen. He also said that he finds Webster to be quiet enough to be able to get some work done. For those who believe in co- ed ucationalism beyond the classroom, Davidson, Fox, and West should be on your list. If you have not one, but three people with whom you would like to live with, a suite in either Davidson or Fox could be the answer. A suite has two small bedrooms and a lounge, but you must provide your own cooking facilities. The corner suites, which are like apartments, are much larger than the average suite and are really very nice but are understandably in much demand. Those who prefer not to live on a co-ed Boor can also live in suites. Davidson has one women's floor and four men's floors. Fox has two women's floors and three men's floors. Both dorms have only one co-ed floor. Because of the physical construction of a suite, people tend to be somewhat more socially self-contained within their own suite. One female resident said she enjoyed living there but did complain that aside from the outside doors being locked at night there is no security. She felt that it is not very practical for the first floor to be all female considering that the location of the building makes Davidson vulnerable to intruders. West College is for those who . want doubles as well as co-ed living. The second and third floors are co-ed by wing and the fourth floor is co-ed by room and co-ed by bathroom. There are no lounges but there are lounge-like areas in the middle of each floor. There aren't any cooking facilities but many people cook in their rooms and Saga is right below (this may or may not be advantageous). Physically, West does not seem to have been as well-kept as some of the other dorms but the social advantages make up for the physical disadvantage. People are very friendly and there is a lot of social interaction that goes on, and of course the rooms in West which face campus have the best views. The dorms described in this article are not the only places to live as there are other alternatives. Other places to live on campus are McKean (houses 13 women), Hickok (co-ed, also houses the B.S.A.), Smith and Bronner (North Co-op), which are both co-ops, apartments in different dorms and you can even choose to live off-campus. Most of the people I've talked to seem to like where they live, especially upperclassmen who have chosen to live where they are. Many wish that squatter's rights still existed. At least the housing options have remained pretty much the same and everyone Will still have a relatively wide variety ot dorms to choose from. I IMPORTANT MEETING I ALL SENIORS I Wednesday, May 11, 1977 , 11:30 a.m. I MEMORIAL CHAPEL I Commencement details and I activities of graduation i weekend will be announced. 1 Tl Then on Uni1 are fun Commi not be affiliatic Student for the approxi the Ch funded memb (Inter Associa 1976-77 J.S.O Organil funded Schenec about I It i~ investig appare allottinl seven t another com par and 2) groups not fur of their Bef< investig to state In no VI one grc into th( Commi policy. the allocati Tax C our qu encomi left to experie funds. rationa of not similar not tl fund in~ a quest other c such al Fell owl receivec ( One provide Blacks campus activiti compe11 result f the be[ Include concert and mo occurril AlthOUJ to the designe creati conduc Blacks campm The a fr~

'. ' :$ ~ ; I t ____________________________ .. _._._ .. _·_·_··-·-·-\~-C~~O~ Phi Beta Kappa Awards On April 28,. eight juniors and twenty.,five seniors were elected to the Phi Beta Kappa Society. These new members to this honorary society were chosen under ·the recently amended c rite;:ria f ot members-hip. Automatically, all seniors who stood itt the top seven per cent of their class or were nominated l}y two members of the Union College full time faculty were considered for election, but all seniors were potentially eligible for admission. Any junio{in. the. top two per cent of the junioJ;' _class · w~s also considered for admission. These new criteria which were laid out explicitly must have been met by .candidates - criteria · which transcend or cut across College requirements and which are unconnected with grade averages. Speci.Hcai'ly,.-'. they · stipulated two . n:\eeiessary . conditions, believed fo be tbe ,hallmarks Qf excellence .in a l'beral education: l. Intellectual breadth, defined as a b~t.sic acquaintance with the , disciplines of the arts and :humanities, the social sciences, ; and the natural and physical sciences. lhe following seniors were asked to accept their no01ination into Phi Beta Kappa: Judy L. Arbit · Donald Barstow Clifford M. Bishop Ann E. Cashan Maryellen Chomsky Robert W. Clarke Patricia A. Cose Raphael P. Davis Brian E, Dearing Robert C. Halberstam David B. Hopkins Robert A. Kaslovsky Kenneth J .. Lindahl David H. Mendelsohn Jeffrey M. Meyer Michael P. Mullen David W. Plumer, Jr. l'alitha L. Poulin Betty R. Small J. Timothy Sniffin Donna Sockdl Paul Stefek James L. Trump Edgar B. Walzer MichaeU. Weinstein 2. Intellectual matt.~rity, which was subdivided into two components:· broad creativity, which requires that a student dem(}nstrate l!n ability to undertake sustained intellectual effort wi.thout con·stant supervision a:nd that a student recognize how that effort is related to larger issues within the The folfo:wing were nominated djsciplines and to other fields or lwm the class ot l'JI!S: disciplines; .and - curiosity which Kenneth A. Beck .requires that a nominee Michael J. EdwaFds demonstrate a capacity to ask , Mason B. Gomberg probing questions, to explore Lauren .Beth Greene independently, and to wonder , Lee A Schwartz ·how and why \things\ fit together Kathy N. Shaw as they do. Cary M. Siegel Utilizin~ these criteria: Joseph. Tauber 1 / .·· · .. ·I I .. - . . --~.------ ~··~·~11111\liD,j;:. ~'-\\-:::~>-... S: \ 'C\--\ \ \\\\1!7TW/ I 7 [~~1l FRO,M THE PRESIDENT'·S DES·K. This Saturday, in the midst of a host of pleasant activities comprising Parents' Weekend, we will observe one of our mpst important traditions that began 45 years\'dgo - Prize Day. When inaugurated in 1932, P·rize Day was seen as an alternative to t11e usual practice of awarding prizes only .at commencement when most of the students other than seniors had left campus. What those behind the move for a day of special recognition hoped to achieve was a focus on the many opportunities for students to excel at the College. Initially, the then-mandatory chapel period was extended for an hour and Prize Day was held during mid-week. Some saw it as the \intellectual counterpart\ to the Block· U dinner at which athletic awards were made. Fifteen prizes were awarded at the first Prize Day. This week, more than 60 prizes will be awarded. Without doubt among the most coveted are the Frarlk Bailey Cup and the Joseph Daggett Prize, The Bailey Cup represents outstanding service to the College; the Daggett Prize represents outstanding character and conduct. Both of these awards are voted by the College's faculty. In recent. years, Parents' Weekend has seemed an opportune time to award prizes because parents deserve a share in the joy of the winners and because they help widen the audience to recognize the outstanding accomplishments of the winners. I would encourage everyone to share in this important ceremony this weekend. Further I would encourage everyone to reflect on the significance of each of the prizes awarded~ The lengthy list of prizes we now offer in no way lessens the achievement of the indivjdual winners, but we can easily fall into the error of not fully appreciating the importance of any single prize because there are many. Rather, I believe we should view the extended list of prizes as evidence of increased interest of others in the achievement, academic and personal, of Union College students. Each donor has in mind the promotion of excellence in some area of the College where a prize is offered. Students will hopefully be aware of the prizes offered and the type of excellence they repreesent. For by the quality of our winners do we have some measure of the exce,Jlence of our College. To this year's winners, I offer early congratulations. To all our students I offer a challenge to excel. I would renew the challenge offered at the first PritL' Day hy Professor (fmeritu\\ Harold '\. l.arrahec when he asked. \Dare we he scholars''\ ~·-~ WANTED: Feature Editor willing to de·vote time ond energy to Concordiensis. WE WANT YOU r union ' cola.p . • , 'concor01ens•s Editor·in·C'hief Associate Editor.. News Editors ...... ., ................ .. Layout l:drtor .................... .. 1>.1 '\\ \\<>I rrrlnwrr H1..:t1 t•n: ... ·n .. ........... And~ Mrkhdl. \1.•11 '\!!\'''' ............. 1~·\,_· t \I Sports (:dnor> .................................. . l)thhh.: 1'\.llt:lt(l. \L1:~:- I'~·~.::: Cullu1e Ed1tor .................... · , Bu;mc» !l.landgcr' Cla\rl rcJ, r dunr, Photo Fdrtn\ Photography Staff H.trh.\1.1 .... , .. I' \1 ,.·' I ' P.t!ti \1,,.r.ln \1.,!''': fl~ ~, :··' .r1 ft'n ·Jk .... ~_hcr t...h'\t' (,r.dl ! d 1'1.111 '-•·•1 fo..tnntt'k Car} f·e\erman. Marc ( wtk1h. Jdl ! \' n1.1n Art ~ditor.............................. ... 1~.·-..h.:t. \\ t:''' Poetry Edttor. .... .. .. . ... . .. . . . Dclannc '>t.•~c·m• n Subscriptions Editor............................................................. llt,Hi li.L'\k·r Staff tllis t>sue ............................... , ... . ........... Jon Sch•HL \'\'' \\\\\'\'· C}ntlu.t Ar.tn<'\· Linda Straun(, C••td~ I·\''\ • o\ndre-. \\\''fl 1\ll~nc Prtrr P.ru! C ·''',.'\\'' Rn,eman '.ark . .\ian R \''\' I <..ON<..OROIEN~ll-1 1s publi~hed CHI) \\ednc~da1 h' lh•· ''\'h·ul . bud) of lnion. lullege, Old <o)lll llall, 'ochennldd), ''\ \,.tb. '\ . which ro~tal l'orm~ 3571) art· direded. l'ubli.aii<OII\ ()ffj,' I ht· Jewish World Publications, ~16 Smith \it. Srhrmrtad~, ' ' 1 nne; , (379-5483). Entered in the <;;chenertad) l'o,t Offi··r a• \rwml ( '\\ I 1 \1atter. Sub~criptinn Rate '\ .rPnt' p~r rup>. '!illl a HUI clrli\·re•f anywhere in the United States. . '. '-'-.. __________ ___.

----------------------------------------~C~O~N~C~O~R~D~l~E~N~S~IS~,~·~~a~}~'4~,~~~97~7--------------~-------------==========P~e~ Phi Beta Kappa Awards On April 28, eight junims and twenty-five seniors were elected to the Phi Beta Kappa Society. These new members to this honorary society were chosen under the recently amended criteria for membership. Automatically, all seniors who stood in the top seven per cent of their class or were nominated by two members of the Union College full time faculty were considered for election, but al'l seniors were potentiaHy eligible for admission. Any junior in the top two per cent of the junior class was also considered for admission. These new criteria which were laid out explicitly must have been met by candidates - criteria which transcend or cut across College requirements and which are unconnected with grade averages. Specifically, they stipulated two necessary conditions, believed to be the hallmarks of excellence in a liberal education: I. lntellectua:l breadth, defined as a basic acquaintance with the disciplines of the arts and humanities, the social sciences, and the natural and physical sciences. 2. Intellectual maturity, which was subdivided into two components: broad creatiVIty, which requires that a student demonstrate an ability to undertake sustained intellectual effort without constant supervision and that a student recognize how that effort is related to larger issues within the disciplines and to other fields or disciplines; and - curiosity which requires that a nominee demonstrate a capacity to ask probing questions, to explore independently, and to wonder how and why \things\ fit together as they do. Utilizing thes_e_ criteria: ~1 , _ _,.-,r1 - ; - The following seniors were asked to accept their nomination into Phi Beta Kappa: Judy L. Arbit Donald Barstow Clifford M. Bishop Ann E. Cashan Maryellen Chomsky Robert W. Clarke Patricia A. Cose Raphael P. Davis Brian E. Dearing Robert C. Halberstam David B. Hopkins Robert A Kaslovsky Kenneth J. Lindahl David H. Mendelsohn Jeffrey M. Meyer Michael P. Mullen David W. Plumer, Jr. Talitha L. Poulin Betty R. Small J. Timothy Sniffin Donna Sockell Paul Stefek James L. Trump Edgar B. Walzer Michael I. Weinstein The following were nominated !rom the class ot I Y ns: Kenneth A. Beck Michael J. Edwards Mason B. Gomberg Lauren Beth Greene Lee A. Schwartz Kathy N. Shaw Cary M. Siegel Joseph Tauber ~,~,~~n~n·, :· ~~,lim:·:·: L~i , q 11] . fol~l' h 111(1\ • rr\'l i ~~~ , 1 1 . .. dlr:lt:::J.l 1. lntJA\L'J;Lrli! L'1t.!Jwr .':ll!rr:L- ·. ~/ .- . -·,:.-' ( :·.·-~ bas been handled (more apprQpri:at\'!~Y:.,:.··mi$hiUlcl:md}, ·. :,u·siag .-,·the -oontento .qf a · private conv~rsation .as the · ·' '~~htJfr-r•·t!:l¥Y -~~.;sets.- .... ··._.;..-. ::--·:.---->:-···--.- .::~~0~:b;:~=~:::::;:{;:~~,;t;';· .. ···•Als&, . · .publicly , ·stating .... AbCil ~.· ... ·-Jfote-sid~ntl!t;.<teba.r;g~ ·r./t9tf,_~,','.A~-\ ·· .. :d'fevlllfWNfUtflt$l.m:iJat;;.:Ql'«d(~~-t~Q.;, · .. · •· · .i tHr~~ 9,\.P,;fi::!h?:···s·O _(,.,, .•.• ,,~ 4•4:~:&iHt.·tki·•\\''··-; ' \ ' \ '\ lllil' :''/ ,''.' \ _ _}_ \....~, .LL--L-~ / ~ • : .Y / / / / / ~ _} are as excited about us as we are •. · • ,,~h~·-Piedge. Class Q( 1,977 Sigma Delta Tau Whii\Gake ' 1 'iJ!o('tJ~Hfiimf.uts Commdtiity '·Y ~~· . .. · ·· t{tf''tlie E'dttur: FROM THE P·RESIDENT'S DESK This Saturday, in the midst of a host of pleasant a cti' ittc~ com.prising Parents' Weekend, we will observe one of our mo~t important traditions that began 45 years 'ago - Pri7e Oay. When inaugurated in 1932, Prize Day was seen as an alternative to the usual practice of awarding prizes only at commencement when mo~t of the students other than seniors had left campus. What those behind the move for a day of special recognition hoped to ac hie\ t' was a focus on the many opportunities for students to excel at the College. Initially, the then-mandatory chapel period was extended lor an hour and Prize Day was held during mid-week. Some saw it .ts the \intellectual counterpart\ to the Block U dinner at which at hlcttt awards were made. fifteen prizes were awarded at, the fir~t Pri?C Day. This week, more than 60 prizes will be awarded. \Nith(lut doubt among the most coveted are the Frank Bailey Cup and the Joseph Daggett Prize, The Bailey Cup represents outstanding service to the College; the Daggett Prize represents outstanding character and conduct. Both of these awards are voted ll:y tht· College's faculty. In recent years, Parents' Weekend has seemed an opportune t1me to award prizes because parents deserve a share in the jo:y ul the winners and because they help widen the audience to recogni\t: the outstanding accomplishments of the winners. I would encourage everyone to share in this important Ct;:rernony this weekend. Further I would encourage everyone to reflect un the significance of each of the prizes awarded. The lengthy list <JI pn1es we now offer in no way lessens the achievement of the m.div.idual winners, but we can easily fall into the error of n<Jt fully appreciating the importance of any single prize because there are many. Rather, I believe we should view the extended list ol prll!:~ as evtdence of increased interest of others in the achievement. a.cadcm1c and personal, of Union College students. Each donor ha~ in mmd the promotion of excellence in some area ot the College \\here a prite is offered. Students will hopefully be a ware of the pn1e~ offered and the type of excellence they repreesent. .hw b\ the 4uality of our winners do we have some measure of the exec lkm:e of our College. I o this year's wmner~. I ollcr early congratulatiom. 1,1 a II nur students I otter a challenge to excel. I would renev. the L-ha llcn~l' olll:tcd at the tir~t !'til<..' ll.t~ h~ l'rok\ur (J'mctrtu,J 1!~1'' ,[d \ l.arrahec v.hcn he a~l-..eJ. \I late \~I.\ he \dwlar<'\ WANTED: feature Editor willing to devote time and energy to ~ ~ Concordiensis. 1 ~k~jjll®I~M.®!-, ~~~~eW~Ee<W.:~AN~!li ,' union 1 collcfp • .11 · concor01ensrs I' d:tur-.n-Chad 1\\ocaat~ I d:tnr \e\'' ~·dllllr' Ldvuut ldatua ... ~purb Ldat'l!'. l ulturc l.dlt<H HU,IIlC\ \1.!11.11,(<1' (_ l..t..,,IIIC.~,,h I dllllh Phdttl I dllt'r' Ph<>t~>gr,,rtn ...,l,att An f·dlltH Poet!\ fdat<>r SuhM:npllon' hlit<H ~tdll th\ I\UC I} I' \\ • 'l} '' \o,\ ' H ... ,, \ . ' I l, '·I•. I' I~. I • ' I ' ' '..' 1'.,11. \1. '. ' \1 . . ,. f.,.. I' , ~ d l'•.t' '\ \ ... , ~ t ,,,\ l c.:\t:tnt.tn. \ILlrl < •.. u ... P 1\. · 1 '\. I .... ,·, t \\ , \., I l,:l.llill._ \~'.t~.-.·: _,. I_~! .It: 1\' ..... ~ ' J,,n '-.'--I' :· '·• .1\ \:,ll\ .. 1 \•.t(~l'\'· I .:,dd ..... ::.1 I, l ' \nd1r\ \\ ..... ·:1 \'>. ''· P· !-'.. ~ R,.,,.!lLt! \ ...... l \ . I; .• I ( 0~( OIUH~-~~~~ \ !JUhh,lwd cHI~ \\t'dlll''dJ\ l11 !In ''\d'\' bud) ul l niun ( ulkgt\ Old I'·' 111 II all. '' ht·.nt·\l.uh. \\\ \ ,.,, I• • \h1ch l'u~tal 1-urm\ -'~\\(J .trt· liHt·~lt•tl l'uhlh . .tltt~n\' ()llh. l''tt· J~\i>h \\ orld l'ublkation,, 4 II\ '-math '-.1.. '>du·nn '·\\. '\ \ 1 :'! •n~ (.P0-\48.\). f nlerl\d 111 tlu· \•h•·n~< tdlh t•.,,r lllh-•· ·'' \•• \'''I I ' .• ·• \ \tatte-r. ~ub\criphun Halt· \'\ o·.nl' pl·r l''ln. \\Ill .• \-·\ dt 11. 1 ~ :, .J an~\here in the t nit~d \\'''''·

'· Page8 CONCORDIENSJS, May 4,.1977 classifieos BUlETN BO.AID Mini-Course: Study and discussion of the New 1 estament work, The Acts of the Apostles. Stuart - 1 really like your be&rd. Ba11y _. Dilly 37 more days left! Hang on! LH. - What were YOU doing with Alison's key this weekend? Don't worry, we won't tell anyone, we all know yoil'·re a \growing\ boy. JOY The Economics Department wiil hold its annual piCnic Friday, Mav 13 at G1rlinll' Center. • Who: Anyone · interested in the growth and development of the early Christian Community. When: Thursday evenings in May from 7:30-9:00.p.m. Where: Sister Pat's residence: 816 Union St. Further information: contact Sister Pat in the Placement Bldg. Second floor or call her residence 346-2898. You need not be a scripture scholar to participate. Pam - Your domestication amazes us; but remember, when threading a .needle use only one thread at a time. THE SEAMSTRESSES Barbara - Thanks for last week's personaL The brothers of ZBT. Randy .- Congratulations on your double in Hikok!! Berman - Better tell Meryl to park her tractor trailer truck in a better plll,ce this week so Secl!rity won't give her a ticket. Bird - Shhh .•... Bird - 'what time is it? ·1 he picnic. which starts at 3:30 p.m., will feature the u~ual hamburgers, hot dog~. beer and delicious homemade salad> also, soltball .(bring your own glove), volleyball, frisbees, etc. Tickets will be available from any !acuity member in the Department, . or lrom the Department \Secretary. All Economics student~ are welcome: .buy your ticket early!! Hey You! Be sure to send your poems to Fine Lines, box. 1738. Sec yourself in t>rint! Find It At The Campus Store the pert~ct gift for Mom and Dad on Parents' Weekend a book of over 100 po~ms, called With You in Mind, It's bound in red and gold· and the title says it all, even before they get to the beautiful poems. They'll really appreciate receiving such a lovely (but not expensive) gift. (Don't forget next Sunday is Mother's Day!) THE UNION JAZZ ENSEMBLE WILL ENTERTAIN THE PARENTS That's right, the same group that rocked Memorial Chapel last winter term is at it again. This Friday night, May 6th, at 9 pm, in the Achilles Rink the ensemble will be putting! on a dance for the parents, faculty, and friends. The music will range from Big Band tunes like . - \In the Mood,\ \Sentimental Journey,\ \Moonlight Serenade,\ - to rock and pop tunes like - \TSOP \Cherish and \Does Anybody Really Know What Time It Is.\' The dance is free and there will be a bar at which refreshments may be purchased. Finally the parents will get a chance to dance as much as they want. President Bonner will be there to give an opening welcome to the parents. Don't forget that's Friday May 6th at 9 pm in the Achilles Rink. On Tbunday, May 5th, at 7:00 PM in the Alumni Gym, the third annual Boxing Tournament will be conducted. Bouts will take place in tho following weight classes: Fly weight 100-125, Light weight 125-150, Middle weight, 150-175-, Light heavyweight 185-200, and Heavyweight 200 and up. Bouts will consist of three I \<2 minute rounds. Entries are currently being accepted in the Intramural Office. ASME presents Ron Stewart from SUNY Albany, discussing the expanding role of solar energy. Free refreshments. 7:30 p.m. Tuesday May 10 in Strauss Lounge. Book Sale: Library Music Room, 9:00 AM-5:00PM Tuesday, May 10 Roommate Wanted: M/F who will be living in Syracuse for the next academic year. Anone interested in getting an apartment near campus 'contact Dennis 37o-6564. A committee bas been convened for the purpose of conducting a third year evaluation of Professor Nina Rosenblum, and a fourth year evaluation of Professor ~mory Waten. Students and faculty ; · mterested in contributing statements : con~rni~:g the teaching, scholarship, and contnbuuon of Professors Rosenblum and Waters to Union College are invited to .send letterg to Professor Hugh Allen Wilson, Chairman, Department of the Arts. Summer Sublet - Ave. A, Modern 3- bedroom apt. furnished, one block from campus, backyard, off street parking. Male or female. Call Jackie 370'-6422. The Political •F orum is sponsoring a lecture by Prof. Milton Cummings of J'ohns Hopkins· University on Thursday, May 5 at 8:00 p.m. in Strauss Lounge\. The title of the lecture is \Government and the Arts, 196'1-1977.\ Prof. Cummings, a well- known political. scientist, n::ceived a Guggenhl!im Fellowship in 1975-76 to study the growth of ·public programs to assistthe arts in the U.S. He was a Rhodes Scholar and holds the Ph.D. from Harvard. He has previously published a number of I books and articles on congressional elections, the federal bureaucracy, and the seniority system in the U.S. Senate. His best known work is a widely-adopted American politics text, Democracy Under Pressure, co-authored with journalist David Wise. His lecture wili be followed by a reception with refreshments. On Friday, May 13, the students of Comp. Ed. 44 will make a field trip to New York City. We will leave at 7:30 a.m. from Memorial Chapel. The Cloisters, Metropolitan Museum, and Frick Gallery will be visited. In the evening the group will see the new production of Apmemnon at the Lincoln Center. After that, we'll return to Schenectady from Lincoln Center. Although the trip is over- subscribed at the moment, members of the Union College community may join if there are cancellations. The cost for the trip; all museums, and the performance at Lincoln Center is $16. Please contact Mr. Freund at 370-6208 if you are interested in coming along. Ride needed to Boston, the weekend of May 6-8. Please' contact Patti, 6619. For Sale, 26\ Schwinn continental 5- speed gold colo. $25.00 Call 374-2503. Professor Viramia Bush, prospective candidate for chairperson and art historian for Union College Art Department will present a lecture at 1:30 Friday, May 6, in rborp. 202 in the Arts Building. Seniors - graduation announcements are in, see Mrs. Marra. Apartment wanted: two females, one year beginning in June. in the vicinity of Ellis Hospital. Contact Jackie 370-6655. For Sale: 1972 Nova, 4-door Automatic AC, PS, Pb. 30.000 miles. $1800. Call Larry 6536 For Sale: Audiovox Auto cassette deck like new, $40.00, Call Larry 6536 For Sale: Sears refrigerator, 14 cubic foot, two door frostless, runs well. $55 cau Larry6536 FOUND: three weeks ago, one pearl earring. Call 6487.. Tbe Sprinl Red Cross Blood Drive will be Wednesday and Thursday, May 18 and 19 from II to S at the Fieldhouse (new location). Appointments can be made in Student Activities. - Theta Delta Chi will award a keg to the fraternity or dorm floor with the highest percentage of donors. Maurice B. Granbart &: Sons 'SeniDg Union For Three Genentions' l66Jay St. QadtJ Senlce A MneWerblanllllp! ATTENTION SENIORS SENIOR SAIL June 9, 1977 (Thurs. eve.) Tickets for the senior sail booze cruise on Lake George are now available at the Student Act,ivities Office Each $10.00 ticket includes: Live entertainment by \Prime Time\ Cocktails - 4 per ticket holder Food - catered by Maurice's One place reserved aboard the \Ticonderoga\ Creative, 11emi-formal attire required Only a Umited number of tickets are available;, Buy yours this week! For more information see Mrs. Marra or Eli Portnoy SENIORS! This is ·going to be the last fling of your college career. don't niiss it! Robin - 1 can't hold back my passions for you any longer - Future Prospllct Cheryl - Would you please leave the g\l,rbage shoot cover on this week'? Holly - When was the last time you rode a ·horse, or what ·have you been riding lately? Rich - Penalty for getting burned, \The rack of the Star Chamber\ - Mike Ben Rubin - Did you ever consider going to chiropractor school? When I threw roses, they stepped on them; the rocks, however, I don't know where they're coming from! Did the roses tlun into rocks, or is it the thorns they stepped on that hurt? The person '!ho Hves in a glass. house (Rich. kid?) · S.C. (Porky?!) - There is one game, in which there can be two winners, .· .. or two losers! ' I wouldn't like to leave without sayinj,\ good-bye to you, even though I don't know you!. 1 wish you the best (you deserve it!) and good hick in whatever you do. Adios, cornzon! P .C. B1Mna Man - Can l speak to the second floor please? - Curious Georaina Thanks for the Yago, PQpeye! - The two Lin&uini Sisters You asked for personals Rf)nny, yol! got 'em. - two English majors · Is. there a class structure in Sveden? - us two ap.in Ste&s- \lch werde dich vermissen.\ Alese & Alyssia - Co11grats on becoming O.A.'s. Hope all your freshmen are from the five towns - The one wbo didn't make it Lisa K. - So, 1 heard that· you wanted a personal, eh? Well,, now you should be satisfied; I'm waiting for you to do the same for me. Bob Michael Lyon - Haven~t you ever learned grammar? When you represent your own views you use the pronoun I, not we! Minnick - Hope you are no longer on the list of clods that work at the Pub. The garbage was full but that is no reason to drop it all over the parlting lot! Let's go .get ~essed. and play a few dozen games. of pmball. The workout partner (sometimes) P1t - Sorry I forgot you last ·week. It won't happen again; if you believe that, then you'll believe anything. Bob Brad S. - The next time that you're around when .rm playing pinball, I'll hit you so fast that your contacts will melt - Mqoo's roommate Everyone hurry - there's only 600 more days· until Xmas 1978! Get your shopping done early - S. Claus • Bedr.y - Don't you think that the weekend of tbe 22nd was strange? It happens every daylight-savings time. Next time, however, I ·would like to get to sleep before 5:30a.m. - Guess Who? Due to lack of interest, Patents Weekend has ~en cancelled; and for that matter, so has My Little Margie, Get Smart, and my subscription to HUmpty- Dumpty magazine. Michael Lyon - Just because you dress femininely, why should we? Tlie BeiitiH will be appearing at Union College on June 31. 1977! Tickets available at these places only: The Palace in Buckingham, Heaven, Hell, and aU Price Choppers in the greater Tokyo area; or call (518) R.•EtoQ•U•E•s•T Wun't lbat last personal absolutely ridiculous? lf you think so, stick it in your ear, because l wrote it!!! Prince Mkbael L~nn - . Why are you such a coward that you wqn't sign your name to your Letter to the Editor? D UNION C.OLltGE PUS RE&TAVRANT ~.i( c 5CHENE.CTADY,N.Y. 12308 1-1 u L L o·w Hey Buddy - i love ya - Pal Hank ..... Keep eating those seeds - 407 Audubon Mash U ilit Kathy F •. - More amerretta. Please, more, more, more ..... ~Cootie Hey Truck. DriVer - Park your truck in·. front of the SS Building and I'll meet you there at S:OO a,m. ~ The Clam Dear Monday WRUC Joek from 12:00 to 2:00 p.m. - Can you really sing like Bob Dylan and Jimmy Hendrix? Does your roommate like baby teeth? Can you play guitar? Well? If you answer yes to all of the above then you are not really God and you've been lying to me the whole year. Johnson's Happy. Committee Affy - Where do f go to sign up f<;>r the Kevin Kardos look-alike contest - b~e. Sbaron W. - I love you, please stay close - Peter H. Katlly & Joan - Score \Ultra-High\ on tests much! KathrYn - Been stealing trays lately? J - Why do you always take my seat in the all nisht study!! Do you have longer legs m::a case of the nerds?- PT GB .-.. We bo~ght a special. package of cheese for your pleasure! Enjoy Anytime!! - Two. richer friends .Mindy - How does a long rest under the Riviera sun strike you! Just keep yourself alive til then! ~ Gu~s who? .Oo you know what :J mean? Jailbait - Happ;' Birthday and clock- ~dio, okay? . Dear ~mallsey - So now you're legal, d~s th1s change anything? Happy Buthda.y - Love - MKG . Sonia - How~s Fabulous bachelor doing? Will you be visiting this summer? Dennis B •. - I still think that dog is just about your.size! (just·kidding)- Rho P•tti M. - People of average height should n?t crack jokes about those with short legs, because it is naughty, naughty. Paint a starry night again man. Heh, heh, heh, heh; .heh ... Happy Blrthdly Sonia - Do you want a handsome milli\:maire for your birthday present, you might find one further north. No ReaDy, oo really! He's so fine wish he were mine. Jan - It does not take experience to pick up sticks. Riti - I think Funny Face is ugly and ·stupid but J.J. is beautiful and smart!' Ritz - How is SONGSTER doil18? Is he wrecking? How mmy baas of CLAMS can a Peter eat? Sue - Thanks for New Hampshire and Syracuse, really. Amy ..,. What are two nice Jewis)l girls like us doing in Schenectady? Get thyself to Brown, already! DDW - I wish there was something I could do. Let me know if 1 can help. - Your roomie S.T., M~K., J.O., C.D., D.H., M.G., 'L.P. - Thanks for the slippery smile - G.S. M~ Patience is a virtue. Everything comes in time ~ Red L~ - V our 'sources' an; not coming through. \Chop Chop!\- Gyn& Donna G. - The months go by - 7 now!!! Mr. \Step\ - I miss you. Sorry. no Genilan this time but better late than never. G~y and Ric:b - Happy Birthday and Belated Birthday, respectively... 'Cbarlies Anaeb' Gynaer - There is no remedy for love but to love more. \A Secret Admirer\ Gruik - Chickened out ofthe Contest Mary ..... What happens when our supply of sugary delights runs out? Richie ~d Mike - You are fags!! - The girls of Skidmore White Pantera - :J think 1 see you in my rear view mirror. - :Barracuda Debbie - Davison vs New Orleans (1878)- R Dave (the one with the scarf),- N·ow why is .that little boy's voi~e sQ high on WRUC? CHARYN For AU you Freshme11 &. Engineering M•jol!l in Pb~sics II., the stumper of the dilyl!!! !!!! \What js a JOWEL?\ ' Sleep much Barbara? A visitor of 201 Mih:h JJbir .-. You're so wonderful could die. - Mitch Blair l(aren - What'??? No to Nasty Habits, but yes to· Slumber· Party, Naughty Wives and the Happy Hooker? I'm confused. Amos - You can try something if you want - inmusic. I mean! Hey< BIGOT, - as long as we .are no longer di!U:l!SSing TUROATS, we won't mention that you had a 1.9 your freshman year . .._ tbe THROAT FR 130's favorite brownies are Duncan Hines and Betty Crocker .. R1ndy - Cb,icquita Bananas, Chicquita B;manas. . Ricb - Smoke Alarms are going off up North- ML Alan Rosenberg - You're ~ LADY!! -the Boys D. CHI - Disappointed last night. Cliet. Atthurwas at his birthday party, but President Carter wasn't at your Peanut Party. We're sure you could have found someone with a big enough smile. Try to do better nex:t year! KACE:Y Dave (the one with the searf) .... When are you getting a new set of patches to compliment your wardrobe? Kathlene Matt - What obscure place are you going to fall asl~ep and miss next week's board meeeting? Matt - Nice facell! Matt - When's the next time Moby will be beached? Victor ..... Cheer up, I hear SAGA is moving to Lynnbrook for tl!e summer. Victor - Get off the rag! Vietor - Is today the 30th? Ben - Next time, keep an eye on Yoni when he does his business. Stev~ Ep: - Any more good bus stories? Chril - .Ham & Cheese on the Uell!i - Jon I.-E - Cute, even if she is only 14! S~~tep - Go comb your hair! It's a mess!· Link - I see the moons and the moons see me. God bless the moons and God bless ME! Puquiui heterosexu~;il. agree with Steve Waldman Haven~t outgrown size 2 underwear yet? the you Welcomes The Parents' • • FRI. & SAT. - SPECIAL· MENU WEEKEND Please Make Reservations Early SUNDAY BLOODY MARY< BR.UNCH $2.50 per person Scrambled Eggs, Cheese Omelets; Bacon, Sausage Links, Bagels (with Cream Cheese), Assorted Danish & Donuts; French Toast, Fresh Fruit - ALL YOU CAN EAT! Bloody Marys & Screwdrivers - 75¢ I :.1Ja1 l Da WI I wh me int ta~ .mi yo, Ri do kn Ct gu di. a!: fe, H H fo d< ct A st A IV d: tl d d go [ Sl tc ( I a: fc lc E k A

CONCORDIENSIS~.~Maji 4, 1977 Dave - \Merci\ ~ The girl with your :.!tat Fingers ..... i challenge you once again. Dancing's only a beginning! - You-Know- Who · CS - · l just wanted everyone to know who wrote that article in Concordy. Only a mqron couldn't spell ocUred. - An interested observer I would like to meet \the guy with good taste\ ... Identify yourself. · Do cows fly? Have a great weekend and miss me. Pre~y please can I have a date with You? You can't lock yourself up in Rkhmond forever. Chuck .._ For the ·twelfth time, why don't you come? Tonight's the night, we know you always hang around with girls. Ch!lbby Babiel! · Dear Mindless, Did 'we. make you feel' guilty enough to put a .personal in? If you didn't feel guilty, don't you feel guilty now about no.t feeling guilty then'? OK! Don't feel guilty, see .if we c;tre! Porifera and Hotstuff Joanje, Sleep much? Cliff Wood Little Petey, Get a HAIRS cut! ·Little Hanky P.S. Not really we really don't want to see that face! ( HaaaaaHa) Mary, Glad it's a.newweek! Wm. B. K, Thanx. WQH Jarret, N nniiccee Pilstert .ffFC (Farrah Fawcett Fan Club) Brigid - Now it's my turn to take otT for the weekend! (sorry ... )' One of these days we'll get it together, I promise. Ross - Susan F. - Tl)ere is now one less chicken in the world. It never breaks, huh'! Andy and Jay :Jay, ·Who's the ~ock'! You seem a little stronger.,. Andy Yo Moron, I hate typing personals ... Anyway you look like a secretary. Mitchellski Lauren, Ma~x is RIGHT. Lauren, You'd be a lot more cuddly than Teddy ... A.M. Buzz - Best of wishes on your wedding day, and thereafter. Aggie To everyone who tried to 'help - thanks a lot, sorry to be such a disappointment. And to a:ll those who didn't - sorry for being such a pain and getting in the way, .l\KS DIALOGUE BETWEEN A BOY AND A GIRL: Jon: Excuse me, would you like to dance? Girl: I'm Busy!! Can't you see I'm smoking a cigarette. Evan: Too Bad you can~t even fit a 6X teeshirt, you weakling! Shapely blond with foreign accent looking .to share an apartment on Gillespie St. with impish, little rnan with beard. Must be a man of action. If interested, contact - Lolita, Box 69, University of Bath I can't believe it!! Only 18 more Classes and 3 more finals until I'm a free man forever! An Anxious Senior classifiebs Jimmy: The beac·b is going to be embarrassing for you!! Mr. & Mrs. ·Gi2nnone ....,. Welcome· to Union! Were glad you could comet . Nerdsly .._ Stop giving heads to Dad Jay - squeeze an egg. Andy Carl eat me l;m. a giant jelly bean Jelly Bean Sehtnedady Fire Department good job Pyromaniacs Anonymous. Wanted - girl draftswoman at $8 per hour FE 74 - l still want to know who is J ohu Chancel or Sweazy Confus~d Big Betta ...., take care of little Betta Daddy Fighter Who is King \Iut'! UColl Students. - all st1,1dents aren't bums Jim - R.A. First Class Patty - llike your shirt Susan ....., the girl with· something extra! Dave K, - Happy belated birthday P.S. how's DBT taking it'! . Rich S. .,.... have you been getting your hands into .anything lateli! Birds can't fly Frogs - Have the best ·Bday... the Noose Jay - I've heard of strange pasttimes, but raw eggs T!'l'! · To fll'st floor Fox South ...,. have you watered your green lately? Pete H. ha! ha! ha! hat Dear \Z\ - next time all nontyped personals will not ge(in! Chi Psi -.please deflate your egos. Hey Boys - I found my right arm. Too bad it's not wor-king properly yet. Only four more weeks to go - Does Beer help bones heal'? Salud! \Z\ Saturday night I could' have sworn I heard brass klinking. It paid off ... eh sport? Help me, Help me Rhonda. l look to the NEAR future. Adios mal suerte! Special thanks to President of Psi lJ for being the only reason why I'm not still in \Toga.\ \Z\ Pete M. - Cool your jets ... \'our ~o - 133 class Carmen - you're just jealous because your legs are too short. Laura - i'Iere's to next year. Love, Your almost roommate To the boys: Shouldn't that personal last week have been .signed \the girls\? Next time watcb what .you say about .people that you don't even know - this is college, not junipr high sch!>ol! Stacey D.D.T. - Do you llrink your diet ''right\? HOMEWORK: Two quotes by Mr. Heywood gave me the will power to stay around besides the obvious. \Nothing is impossible to a willing hart.\ \A hard beginning maketh a good ending.\ Staareo N 1111ette - You can do better than that. Signed, a typical heterosexual. Linda R. - Would like to make your acquaintance. Signed, far better than anything you've bee11 hanging out with lately. P.S. meet me at box 9999 in the mail room. D.E.R. - Get into the swim of things and save someone. (It's always good to keep in practice). Rob - Keep swinging. You keep us on the ·go in Eco. Hope, Hop, Ho, H ... (?) How many times can Sonia starve in a day! · From Ritz - Hey, a miracle occurred ... Hm no longer deaf and blind ~ you .ju$1 inherited ~y golden ... Sonia - Happy Birfday! {This is not a misprint) ... Just trying to adjust to your reading level. (Just kidding; hope it's happy)JD Jan n. - Anyone save your life lately'? Chuck - Isn't baking class fun? Which kind of brownie do you like better - FRI., MAY 6 Planning and Priorities Committee meeting All members of the U nio'J,l community are invited to attend. 8:30 a.m., Hailey Hall 105. Musicale .No.· 11, Art Bragg, Emory Waters et al. Music by Beethoven and Union College students. 12:30 p.m., Arts 202. .BSA plant sale -::- 9,..5, Strauss loung~. Golf- Union vs Albany State, 3 p.m., Alexander Field Chemistry .Department SeQJinau- - Dr. Robert Laudise, Manager Materials Science, Bell Laboratories will discuss \Optic~l Communications.\ 4:30 p.m., Science Center NW 116. Registration for Parents' Weekend, 6:30•8 p.m., Hale H.ouse lower lounge. Walter C. Baker Lecture - Art historian and author John Rewald ·speaking on \Visits With Artists In Europe.\ 7:30 p.m., SS 016. Cabaret, 8:30, 10:30 p.m., Carnegie Hall In Concert - Wheaton College Women's Glee Club and Union College Men's Glee Club, 8:45 p.m., Memorial Chapel. Duncan Hines or Betty Crocker? Perns ,_. Alright already, I give up. WHY did you finally decide to have your .foot x-rayed?! The future resident of Richmond 206 Gary B. - Don't worry, I'll cheer up as soon as my sulfate values come out within 5 ppt! From the target ·Of your best insults, Quant., Chess and otherwise. Bernie- To a totally self destructive person: l tore up your personals, they weren't funny R.C.K. T\\Veety Bird· Hope - Have fun in England! Ken P.: Did you enjoy the \bearded\ ones at the clambake'? C.S. Hey all you Union (:ollege Bl!seball Fans: Did you know that Boston blows calenoar students, faculty, and staff are invited to attend. 9 a.m., Girling Center. F acuity and Administration Open House and Coffee, 9-11 a.m., locations to be announced. Registration and Campus tours by the Gatesmen, 9-11 a.m., Hale House upper lounge. Continental Breakfast, 9-.11 a.m., Dutch Hollow Pub. Brunch, 9-11 a.m., West College Dining Hall. Prize Day Ceremony, II :30- 2:30~ Dutch Hollow Pub. Barbecue sponsored by the Day Care Center, 12:30-2:30, Chet Arthur's lawn. Golf- AIC, Union SpriQgfield and Williams, I p.m., at Williams Day Care Center Auction, l: 15- 2:30 p.m., Chet Arthur's lawn. Track - Union vs Hamilton, I :30 p.m., at RPI Intellectual Cabaret, 2 p.m., Strauss ·lounge. Baseball Union vs Middlebury, 2 p.m., Alexander Field. . JV Lacrosse Union vs Hamilton, 2 p.m., Garis Field. Varsity Lacrosse - Union vs Hamilton, 2 p.m., Daley Field. Why would Jack Nicholson want to look like. Elton John? C1.1rious Why would anyone want to look like Eltqn John, f?r that matter? Kiki Dee Abraham - If you start 'Saab-ing', we know you will soon he sobbing. GM-Ford- AMC Jill - I can't wait to meet Big Mac and Jason. It .seems that they were really worth · going home for. Guess Who (by my walking down the steps.) Opening Party for the Senior Art Exhibition at the Union Gallery, Schenectady Museum. 9 p.m., S¢henectady Museum. Film Committee - presents Horsefeathers, 10 p.m., SS 016. President's Reception and Student Center Open House, 4-6 p.m., Carnegie Hall. Andrea F. - Do you· really have one? Elmer .,.. Why were you selected to be a R.A.? Jamie - Here's the personal' you never got. Happy Birthday, Sweetie! Love, Your Roomie! Terry ..,. Here's the p~rsonal that you didn't get last week. You were great (A Star Has Been Born). Love, NSL Who are you calling a heterosexual. Anita Bryant? Melissa K in Richmond SOMF, Always looking for you and you are not there, come on out and let me explore you. Cristopber Columbus Bruce is on the loose. Hey Brand - I'd rather fight than switch!!!! Sonia - Happy Birthday!!! you're getting older but that's O.K. you won't look a day over. 100 -• 'Citere IS II difference!!! rn.ou~r D.• -• 8th \\\.~ PREPARE FOR: Year MCA T• OAT• LSAT• SAT GRE • GMAT • OCAT • VAT ENROLLING· NOW \EARLY BIRD'' CLASSES For July LSAT & Summer Classes for Fall MCA T Our broad range of programs provides an umbrella ol test- ing lcnow,how that enables us to offer the best preparation avail3ble, no matter which course is taken. Over 38 years ot .exper.ience and success. Small classes. Voluminous home study materials. Courses that are constantly up· dated. Permanent centers open days, evenings & week- ends all year. Complete tape. facilities for review of class lessons and for use of supplementary materials. Make-ups tor missed lessons at our centers. ECFMG • FLEX NAT'L MEDICAL & DENTAL BOARDS Flexible Programs & Hours · Brooklyn .. ..212-336-5300 ~:m-H Manhattan . . . . . 212·838-4454 ! . Long Island . . . . . 516-538-4555 II'Jip N New Jersey . . 201-846-2662 IV'II Outsede NV State Otlly 800 221 98 • 0 EDUCATIONAL CENTER LTD CALL Toll Free • • II 1675 E 16 st Bklyn NY 11229 ·SAT., MAY 1 ··· Spring Meeting of Alumni Council of UnioJ:I College. All Dinner, 4:30-8:30 p.m., Dutch _Hollow Pub (by rese'rVation) THURS., MAY 5th - KEN FElT \Professional Fool\ For more information, see the Cabaret Bulletin Board FRI., MAY 6th - ADAM FREY -juggler & fire eater JOE ZOLNER - can't be described NANCY LEVINTHAL -folk singing M.C.'s: BECKY WHITE, early show; MATT BRIEF, late show Tickets on sale 1:30-2:30 Fri. in the outer office of Student Activities. If any are left, they will be on sale at 8:00 at the door. Shows ·8:30 & 10:30 limit - 4 per person . The Department o·r · Philosophy is currently conducting a. third-year review of Professor Robert Bilkf.lr, Anyone wishing to provide: evidence about his teaching, research, or contributions to the College community should IALL.IIH .. Hl'lll'. • .•. \il,.·J ' ~ .. ' •• ,.,ST. .... Page9 --- SUGARLESS bubbles'! Bazooka Joe Joe L.: Rumor has it that you put a bag over her head. KK, SN, TB Glove: That's DISGUSTING! Joe L.: Was her roommate good- looking? Jealous Roommate I didnt know that Ec()nomic Growth and Development could be so boringl. Dicky: When. are you going to get TH·EIR off the wall'! Or is it there JU~t tenitively'? A Grate Speller.! Grotzie: Keept that damn thing out ot sight!! Get this guys ..-. Jello V.anb a nde up to Skidmore. Can you believe it! 32nd lhHH Raymop.d Chauffer Service Steamship Round Buffet, 5-~ p.m., Hale House (by reservation) Film Committee presents - Horsefeathers, 7, 9, II p.m., SS 016. Buddy Rich and His Killer Force, 9-12, Achilles Rink:. SUN., MAY 8 Chapel Servict, 9: 15-10 a.m., Memorial Chapel. Brunell, Parents' Weekend, 9:30-11:30 p.m., Hale House Bloody Mary Brunch, Parents' Weekend, 10 a.m.-1 p.m., Dutch Hollow Pub. Organ Recital by Hugh Allen Wilson, 10:30-11:30 a.m., Memorial Chapel. Brunch, Parents' Weekend, Il- l p.m., West College Dining Hall. Film Committee · presents - Horsefeathers, 7, 9, II p.m., SS 016. ASME Solar Energy Lecture, Strauss lounge. WED., MAY 11 Androcles and the Lion by George Bernard Shaw. Union's first dinner theater will be catered by the Pub. For information call Nott Box Office or Student Activities. 6 p.m . Senior Meeting, 11:30 a.m., Memorial Chapel. ASME presents Ron Stewart from SUNY Albany, discussing the expanding role of solar energy. l'ree refreshments. 7:30 p.m. Tuesday, May 10 in Strauss Loun2e. COME., BllOWSf.f E.Nrot 1.· A committee has been convened for the purpose of conducting a third-year evaluation of Professor Bruce Reynolds. Students and faculty interested in contri· buting statements concerning the teaching, scholarship and contribution of Professor Reynolds to Union College are invited to send letters to Professor Thomas R. .Kershner, Chairman, Depart· Centers on Mal or U:S Ctltes and Lugano, Switmtand • • TEST PRE.Illl.Ril T.ION. • SPECIALISTS SINCE 1938 · get in touch with Professor Sven Petel'Son, Department of .rbilo~pby. ' .. · me-:at of Economits~ . . . .. . ' . ~.,._._,.;.....,.........,...,,___,...,_..,...,..__,.._._...,---.l ..._z,-o-

Page 10 CONCORDIENSIS, May 4, 1977 6port5 , .. Racketmen Even Record by LARRY LINETT After dropping the first two meets of the season at W illiarrts and Vermont under extremely &dverse condition~ including exhausting drives and hostile, almost savage crowds, the netmen have won two in a row and are just beginning to reach their full potential. in sho<;:k as they lost four out of the six singles matches and Were faced with the awesome task of having to win all three doubles matches to win the meet. ·Lindenberg and· Wantuck. levin- Epstein· lost in a grueling three set match,. So/iha/1 coach Lynn Barra in cuntemplat i01i over receu t losses. Sailing On Saturday, April 23, the Union College Sailing Team triumphed in a regatta at Marist College in Poughkeepsie. Skippers and crews were season will be sailed at Army on May 7. The club would like to thank Pete Berick for an outstanding job of keeping things organized and Jay Reed for driving and writing poor articles. In between the two loss-two victory string, the netters played at Siena and were almost assured of a victory when the heavens opened up and rain descended on the courts. Luckily for Siena, the match ' will probably not be completed. because a mutually agreeable date could not be worked out. Rain also spoiled the team's opening home match against Hobart. Well, all that's history now, and the team is just concentrating on the future and taking each opponent as it comes. The netters began their · winning ways by entertaining a heavily favored SUNY-Binghamton team on our home courts last Wednesday. Expecting the Dutchmen to lay down and give them the match, the previously undefeated (6-0) Binghamton squad mern:bers were Union singles winners included Larry Linett at the #l position, Jon levin-Epstein at #2, Captain Dennis Lindenberg at #5 and Paul Wantuck at #6. Doug Rice and Mitch Brand didn't fare as well, losing at positions three and four respectively, Determined to upset their sanguine opponents, the netmen played almost flawless tennis winning two out of the three deubles matches. Final score of the meet: Union 6, a \dazed and confused\ Binghamton team 3.. With spirits running high on fhe team,. the netters traveled to ~Hamilton Saturday and neatly disposed of their worthy foes 7-'}., on foreign courts. Playing betore a parflal and semetimes boisterous Hamilton crowd, the scrappy Dutchmen had little trouble and won the meet in the singles, taking five out of the six matches. Union winners were LinetJ, Rice, Brand, Playing \token\ doubles, the :netters were in control, again taking two out of three. The teams of Linett-Rice and 'Brand ... Wantllck both won three set matches while Lindenberg-Leviri- Epstein lost a tough two set match, 64, 7-6. ~ecdless to say, Coach Singh .is pleased with the way his. team is p.lay.ing at present and added,· \We just lac~ed confidence in our first two meets. We simply have too much raw talent on the team this year to have a poor record. We · ~o have some tough opponents c<;>ming up in the near future _ including Colgate and Middlebury., but I'm confident that we'll do very well, having the 'home-court~ advantage in both meets.\ · Upcoming home meets include Colgate on May 5 and Hartwick on May 9. Please come out and support your tennis team this year. Th~y've worked very hard and deserve a chance to display their winning talents. ' unaffected by the constant drizz.le that prevailed throughout the day. Gilbert Gilman and Phil Heubner, the \B\ team, swept all three races to gain low-point honors. Jay Reed and Tom Burgess, sailing in \A\ division, won two races and, though crossing tfi\e finish line first, DNF'ed due to a rule infraction. In the final point standings, Union overwhelmed second-place Monmouth College and Marist College. The final regatta of the Stoneboat Places at Princeton \ . Continued from Page 11 · aggressiveness. It is a mo<te 01 behavior, an act in which the individual expresses his personal rights and needs without trespassing on the rights of others. Through discussion directed by Willie Gorke, it was revealed that assertiveness is displayed through· voacc tone. gestures, timing, b()d:y language. and eye-contact. A person will often be passive in var1ous interpersona I relationships. rhese include those with parents, authority figures. ~!rangers, and business associates. We arc each assertive in different >ltuation~. I o hccome more a:-scrtlvc, it's sometimes hest to hcgm m small situations and gradually work up to situations which have greater importance. ln order to become more assertive, it. is necessary to realize that we each have our own basic desires and rights. In addition, we must learn that it is not wrong to speak up and ask for these rudiments. · However, others also hold these· rights, which should not be infringed upon. Role playing was used to show various members of the workshop how to become more assertive. Areas such as eye-contact or voice control which were not being used to their full advantage were pointed out to individuals. Assertiveness can be gained as these areas are developed. If you were walking through Butterfield Hall and spotted a canoe your eyes weren't failing you. It was a canoe! Then if you ventured nearer and observed the boat a little more closely, you may have thought that the canoe was made of a material that looked like concrete. You are a brilliant observer because that was a concrete canoe! If you were also wondering if the boat actually t1oats then your answer is · a definite yes. In fact, that boat, manned by Union students, represented Union in the Princeton Eastern Invitational Concrete Canoe Race, sponsored by the American Society of Civil Engineers. Eighteen colleges sent their canoes and oarsmen to Lake Carnegie in Princeton. New Jersey, on April 23rd. These mlleges. mcludi ng Princeton, Rutgers. Carnegie Mellon and The three finQii!!>tS for the Athletic Director position will be on campus. A number of open meetings have been schedule«~ .to allow the college· · commuaity to meet t.hese . ' candidates. 1 t. Candidate: Richard Sakala - open meeting for students - 'Mon., May 9, 4:30 Hale. • House Lower lounge; Open· meeting for Center I Faculty - Tues., May 10, :Z:30 Hale House Lower L<tunge; . Open meeting for Center II Faculty - Tues., May 10, 3:30 Strauss Lounge 2. Candidate: Barbara Quinn - Open meeting for students - Wed., May 11, 4:30 Hale Assertiveness is not a trait to be picked up . after a single 1 workshop. There are various i workshops (on campus) and; courses (off campus) offered which deal in assertiveness tr~mmg. However, a basic introduction into assertiveness tra1nmg shows that its constructiveness can be useful when used in day-to•day House Lower Lounge; Open meeting for Center I Faculty ..-. Thurs., May 12, l:30 Hale House Lower Lounge; Open meeting for Center U Faculty Thurs., May U, 2:30 Strauss Lounge Union,\ .of course, incorporated the expertise of their engineering . departments to design, build (or rather pour) and race the canoes. The canoes which were primarily made of hydraulic cement had average lengths of fourteen feet. There were a few restrictions imposed on the construction of the canoe one of which was there should be no air cavities. ·One design because of its length (20 ft.) and basic form, very similar to a rowing skull, had times better than aluminum canoes. Union's canoe was basically composed of cement, sand, very small stones and styrofoam. There were four beats in all: two men's, a women.'s and a mixed. Con1peting in the first men's race were Neil Eisenstadt, a freshman, and Chris Wynings, a junior. The second men's race was manned by Doug Howie, a senior and another senior, Jim Tanner, who happened to be the only person in the race to fall out of a canoe. Gigi Griffith and Allison Donenfeld, both seniors, represented Union in the women's heat. Kirk Horstman, a senior, and Merry Dale Schierhorst, a junior, teamed up to make up our mixed team. Our racing teams did not make better than fourth place The Concrete Canoe: It really floats. MADISON'S TYPING SERVICE • Reports • Manuscripts • Thesis • Resumes Prompt Service Reasimable .Rates .433 Liberty St. 37%·5141 Schenectady FOR.LIQUOR \ AND WINE \ Try Jake Lip stein's' 464 State Street 374-1888 communication. t ' •.• ,; .f[ \ • j '\ l ; 3. Candidate: Jack Lengyel - Open meeting for students - · Thurs., May 19, 4:30 Strauss · Lounge; Open tneeting for · Center l Faculty - Fri., May 20, 1:38 Hale Houst! Upper Lounge; Open meeting for Center II Fatuity - Fri., May 20. 2:30 Strauss Lounge ~~------- .... --~\'P'I ....... : .. ,_ _______ or- ____ _, .4 t ... : • • .. ~ '' ) l l 1 !- I .. .. ; t • ' • .J l· •\.,. t ~ i .r ,I ' ' f- .. \t but since participation points were added to our total, Union finished overall in third place. Stonel>oat '77, as the canoe was christened, had the help of advisor Professor Russell Hibbeler, and students Malcolm Nichols, Kevin Harkenrider, Mark Bodenstab, Jim Garafolo and Steve Geor.ge. The project of constructing the concrete 'C~noe, which was started in the fall, and subsequent racing of the boat proved to be a worthwhile ·endeavor. It was also a project where stud~nts worked in a cooperative effort to come to a successful end. ....... ' ' . I I by ru thl rei an las till Cl Oil in! dr Oi all fit si1 hi bt G a< 01 b tll b ... c a t< d· f• g: 0 'tl K a b E rl v r

f l ) f ' i e t a a f • 1 ' ,. Baseballers Split Pair by JON SCHORR The Union Varsity scored l6 runs in two games last week but · the opposition totaled 17. The result was an 11,;9 loss to Colgate _and a 7-6 win over Utica. The Dutchmen bosted Colgate last Wednesday and wasted no time in helping oUt pitcher Charlie flanagan. Union jumped on top with a four run first inning. Leadoff man Dave Adsit drew a walk and stole second. Dave Grotz then worked out another· walk placing runners at first and second. Joe Lavery singled driving in Adsit. Cleanup hitter Gary Borgese then doubled bringing in two more. On Carm Gatta's fly to center Borgese advanced to third and with two outs scored on a single by Dan DeGregory. Colgate got one in their half of the .first and got two more in the second. The Dutchmen built a run in their half of the third ~fter Gary Borgese walked and stole secon<!. Both teams failed to score in the fourth so it was .5-J Union in the lead. With two outs in the 5th, Colgate rallied for 5 runs to move into the lead. Union attempted a comeback in their half of the fifth and with four straight walks followed 'by Tra~::e Anderson's single, scored .three runs, Colgate was able to score two in the eighth and one in the ninth compared to Union's one. tun eighth inning, · The final score Colgate 11. Union 9~ The Utica team came to Union on Friday; again the · Dut<;llmen scored one in the first. Utica got two in the second and one in the third. Lavery was relieved in the fifth by John Mayer. In their half of the fifth Utica got three runs and Union pushed one across in their end of the inni~g. After five innings it was Union 2, Utica 6. In the seventh the Dutchmen came alive for four runs. Dan DeGregory singled and went to second. John Kennedy· dovbled - driving in one. Dennis Gazzola walked and Dave Adsit doubled bringing in two more. With one out John Terry walked and Gary Borgese got his second RBI with a single. From the seventh inning on John Mayer pitched no hit ball. Going into the ninth it was all tied at six .. In the last of the ninth Dave Adsit singled and after a walk Joe Lavery drove Adsit home to win the game. ·It was Union 7, Utica 6. 5port5. ·\-~ -' -:·vi_ . . .. •- .. ~ ····· ..... , . /!:-':._.,...._ -~ Baseball Action Against Colgate 'l'rack· . Continued from Page 12 Union Ruggers-Tie Tough Match and qualified for the NCAA Division Ill Meet with a winning toss of 216-10. He too, is undefeated as yet this outdoor by WEASAL The Rugby Club completed its \away\ portion of its schedule on a fairly successful note. It traveled to Kingston, a club which easily defeated the Union Ruggers last fall, but this spring tied the !'A\ game and was thrashed by their' opponents in the .. ~, game. campaign, and in lieu of his measurement last Wednesday at knowledge of the game diving on \B\ team as a frustrated revenge .. of Dan Teichman and Scott Colgate, will be ending his four- the ball just as it came out of ttJ_e for the .. A\ game, but many feel Shirken combined with bone- year career at Union in a blaze of serum into the opponents' end that the presence of last year's. shattering tackles by Cliff Cohen glory. zone. The final score- Union 11, whipmaster, Dave Demarco, on prevented Kingston from Ed Dingman ran to his first 100 Kingston ll. the opposition's side of the field is penetrating the Union end zone. dash victory this spfing. The Mention should be made of somehow related. Nevertheless, ~ingston broke the shutout late freshman, who boasts a pers'onal Mark Edgerton, Tom Lamb, and the line led by Dan Breg received m the game on a sneaky but effort of 9.6 in the event has been Union appeared a little flat in Bruce Pulliam who led the Union some excellent running from intelligent quick line-out play. recovering from a ~id·winter pursuit which was noticeably a Mike Forcier and Bert Slavin One reason for Union's spotty hamstring pull and was clocked in step slower than usual, and (one try) in posting a solid play in the .. A\ game is somewhat 10.1. Dingman returned to place special mention made of Harvey victory,. (C. T. scored his second attributed to their looking ahead second in the 220 behind Moffatt. Freidman who was called upon try of ·the .day.) The one-sidedness to Army, this Saturday, May 7, p . h v· lk' d G ffi • ' the •• A\ .game as the brawny Kingston squad dominated early and quickly scored a try. The Union ruggers responded. with a determined effort which resulted in a try by tough running Pete Felkner. The game became a nip and tuck battle where strong tackling by the line of Dave Walsh, Brian Bagley, Cliff Farrell, Tom Boyle, and Bert Slavin kept the bigger opponents at bay. It appeared that a single break might decide the game. Early in the second half, Kingston reeeived one when the referee's view was blocked on an obvious \Knock-on·· violation by a rival runner which resulted in their often to kick the ball out of of the game is not seen in the on Library Field. Here Union will ans ' re m ' . a ney 10 Union territory or to make a try- score 10-4, as Mike Forcier and put their undefeated home record Double Suppm:tmg Roles saving tackle. Bert 'Slavin had tries disallowed. on the line a_gai!lst the physical Sophomore Lee Parish was not Some attribute the The game was perhaps the most cad\ts Qf West Point. an individual winner for the overwhelming surge by Unien~s physical of the year as the pu~suit Be there! Dutchmen but joined in the spirit second try. It appeared as though the game was over, b~t continuing hustle . by captam Steve Klak and his squad pa1d off in a fine fun by Brian Bagley setting up .a serum on the Kingston goal line. Then, the adept strategist, Chris Taylo~, once .again displayed h1~ Tom Ryan on breakaway for the score. ~omen's Softball Hits· Cold Streak by DIANA GAZZOLO the sixth inning Cobleskill's bats After losing three games in a came alive. They scored nine runs row, the Union College Women's in the 6th to tie the game. U Coil softball team rallied to a victory came to bat in the bottom of the against Smith College on 7th inning and tied the score, Monday. But if the three previous (with the opening appearance of games could be summed up into a Gimpie Gazzola), forcing the few words it would be along the game into extra innings. lines of Coach Bartl}'s famous However, the U Coli Diamond saying, \I wish our games were Ladies ran out of gas and players, only five innings.\ And it seems losing to Cobleskill by a score of very true that those ladies of the 17-15. Diamond seemed to have lost the The Diamond Ladies continued three games after the fifth inning. their losing streak against Hudson After the victory at RPI, the Valley Community College. This Union College women returned to team was one of the two schools homegro14nd to battle Cobleskill, which beat Union in softball last minus Barb Kessler who had a year. The game was tough as very unfortunate accident at Coach Barta had expected it to · home plate that leaves her out fot be. It was a game of catch-up the season. AIL .seemed to be in ball; Union never had the lead. . fa:vor of a sure vi~tory for Union·. Even with Debbie Schwartz, Judy when all of a sooden iq the top of Driscoll and Pat Shaffer all going. .. 3 for 4, and a team batting average of .600, it w~s not enough to help the team pull out a win. The final score was ll-10, thus bringing Union's record to 2-2. Then it was on the road for the Diamond Ladies to battle Colgate. This was the first time that Union has played Colgate and the Diamond Ladies had the lead by a score of 5-2 all the way up until the. sixth inning when those blues came rolling in again. Colgate had two key hits which caused seven runs to cross the plate - a hard hit shot down the left field line and a home run with two on base. The lack of hits by Union was a large factor in the loss to Colgate even with p .. itcher Liz Yager and catcher Debbie Schwartz going 2 for 4. The team lost 9-S, tarnishing the ladies· record again. The softball team next encountered Smith College. The game got off to a fast start despite the miserable weather with Smith jumping out to a lead with some very impressive hitting. But the Garnet girls came back every time to match and take the lead. Key hits were made by Pat Schaffer, Judy Driscoll (5 for 6) and Cathy Reals (3 for 4). Liz Yager's pitching was consistent giving up only three walks. The U Coll softball team pulled out a 21-15 victory over Smith, thus evening their record at 3-3. - Coach Barta and the softball team foresee winning the rest of the gantes this season so all you fans, come out and cheer the team on . of the afternoon's festivities by placing twice and running on a winning relay. Parish was second in the 100, third in the 220, and leadoff on the 3:32.4 mile relay team. Freshman Pete Vielkind, outshone in the individual events by the Moffatt-Scheuer duo, developed into an outstanding and dependable relay runner. On Saturday afternoon Viefkind was second in the halt and one mile runs, and contributed a leg to the mile relay as well. Another I rcshman, J <1mcs Gaffney, unable to break into the ind1vidual wm column, wmpktcJ the Pansh- Vielkind-M ollait mile . rci?Y win, and hung onto a tough second place in the yuartcr nule. Other fine individual efforts in a supporting classification came from: Rich Chadjurlan, third in the triple jump; Eddie Adams, second in the long jump; Mike May, second in the vault; Keith Crimmins and Cliff Rogers, second and third in the high jump; Pete Conway, second in the intermediate hurdles; Frank Cantwell, third in the javelin; and the phenomenal Bruce Bonano, third in the shot. For the Flying Dutchmen it was a nice \day at the races\ following the Colgate Relays (full results next week) on the previous Wednesday. Union totaled 91 points to Trinity's 53. Coach Bob Magee, subbing· for Ken Michelsen who is still hospitalized after a seven-hour long back operation, has his team entered in a triangular meet at Albany against the Williams Ephmen and Albany State Great Danes on Tuesday. Trinity's win was number 7 for the unbeaten Union College athletes, and on Tuesday the campaign for the unbeaten season continues.

Page 12 CONCORDIENSIS, May 4, 1977 For Trackmen.,,Unbeaten Season Continues by ROCKY DOLAN On a fine Saturday afternoon when most Union College students were to be found baking it up at the Girting Center, the Union College Track Team held their own party right here on campus. To the uninitiated observer, .it could have seemed as if there was a dual track meet against Trinity College from Connecticut, but by the end of the day's competition Union's talc.nted young squad had almost completely taken a.JI meaning out ol the team score, and so the meet had I he -appearance of a festive get-together. ,:\1 offatt, Scheuer, Blum Win .Twice ! half mile, timing Sophomore standout Kevin Scheuer remained unbeaten in the half mile, timing an \easy\ 1:59.3. Scheuer also won a walkaway victo.ry in the mile at 4:27.5, and 1 then ended his long day's work with a second place finish in the· three mile, an event he has been \experimenting'' with the WilY Moffatt started \experimenting\ with the sprints. The two former h~:tlf-mile specialists now cover every running event and relay event on the program. Scheuer·~ times were not by any means exceptional, but since Scheuer has already qualified for the nationals in three events (half mi!e-1 :50.8, mile-4: 14.0, and mile relay), he is training he!lvily for big meet competition later in the season and resting through dual meets. Except for a fifth place in the nationals, and a mile upset earlier this month, Scheuer as well has been unbeaten over the past two seasons. Easing into his tnird dQuble victory in as many weeks, sophomore Matt ·Blum clocked a 15.0 out in front of the 120 highs field, and managed a 41. 5 in ·the Cliff Roger apprehensively looks for pit. rarely-run 330 intermediates to gain his first v·ictocy in that event. Blum, the 'SC}1Qol•tecord holder and indoor state champion in the high hurdles. also has onlv been I defeated twice since December. 1 Bonano, Chilton, Norman Dingman Vh:tors Bruce Bonano was to be found in 8 different events on· Saturday, and was the victor in the pole vault. The senior co-captain is in training for a decathlon attempt later in the season, and despite his activity rnanaged to record a p.ersonal record in the Vault of 13- 6. Bonano made three good runs at a height of 14-1%, coming closer on eac.h attempt, bQt failed and had to settle for his third win of the season. Earl Chilton popped a leap of 45 feet, I inch,. to take the triple jump, The sophomore .school indoor record holder h:as yet to be beaten outdoors a:nd this measurement was a ~ personal record for him. Senior Rich Norman hurled the javelin 199• 7Y-! to outclass the field there, and then placed third in the discus. Earlier in the week · at the Colgate Relays Norman broke his o:wn school mark of 210 Cl)ntinued on :Page 11 In lieu of the relaxed atmosphere, many tine individual perlormances were handed down by Union athletes. Junior co- captain Bob Moffatt ran away in the 220 and 440, in 22.6 and 49.1, respectively, the latter his fastest clocking in the one-lap race this spring. Later in the day the durable star, who began doing sprint races .. for fun, and to get in shape for longer races,\ came back and breezed through a relaxed anchor leg of the last event of the day - the mile relay. Moffatt lost the chance to finish out in front twice more due to a disqualification in the 100 and a dropped baton in the 440 rel9.y. These events notwithstanding, the Stamford resident has crossed a. finish line out in front 16 times already this season, and, except for a second place in the national championships, has yet to be Women's Lax Wins Once, Loses Twice beaten over the course of the last 1 The Union Women's Lacrosse team lost to a formidable St. two seasons. ' team continued winning games Lawrence team 18-0, after a 5- · Sophomore standout K.evin this week, but not until they fell hour bus ride. Goalie Judy Scheuer remained unbeaten in the twice to the more experienced Haddad was the player of the day half mile, timing an \easy\ 1:59.3. hands of St. Lawrence and· with.over 30 saves. On Friday, the· Scheuer remained unbeaten in the 1 Middlebury. Last Wednesday; the girls hit the road one more time, . Laxmen Axe Albany by ROBERT R. GRUSKY Last Wednesday the Dutchmen beat the Great Danes from Albany State by a score of ten to six. Union started out on the right foot as Rich Romer opened the scoring at 14:24 on a pass from Jed Kanner. One minute later John Thompson spun around one Dane, shrugged off an extremely tough hit, and fired it home. Albany then scored their first goal on a shot by Goggin, at which time the Garnet were two men down due to penalties. Union got it back on a goal by Little T, who took another tough hit in order to I score. The period. ended with an excellent one-On-one save by goalie Al Greenburg. Coach Reid, in an ·effort to shake up the previously sluggish power play, played junior Andy Brooks and freshman Rich Romer on the wings during Union's man advantage situations. The unit moved the ball well on their first opportunity but failed to score. The second period began with Carl Walker, normally a mid- fielder, donning the defensemen's stick in order to give the Union backline some much needed speed. Union opened the period's. scoring on a bounce shot by Little , T. The Danes then scored their second goal on a shot from Brady, who had just shook off a tough check by Ken Beck. Union closed out the first hair~ scoring · on another goal by John Thompson and a score from Jim ·Felix. travelling up to Middlebury. This time they went down by a score of I 0-l, Goalie .Josie Ritchie doing an amazing job in the goal. The shut-out was prevented when Second-home Audrey Nes scored from the point after a free- position was awarded to her. _ Monday brought the Smith game, and another win. This game is proof positive of the improvement in the Union squad, as they lost to this same team in previous years by scores of 18-3, and 12-J, respectively. The game opened with a quick Union goal scored by Center Barb K.aul. Smith retaliated. Union scored again, this time Third Home Lynn Bateman tickled the twines. Again Smith retaliated, but Union scored two more quick ones, both break-away goaJs by Audrey Nes, an~ Allyne Price. At half-time, Union was the proud owner of a 4-2 lead. Angry about their poor and sloppy play, Smith came back from half-time and proceeded to tie the score, making it 5-S, after Lynn Bateman scored yet another goal. Or so it seemed. After the game, the ltefs changed the score to 6·S, favor of Union. It seems that the second of two goals scored by Audrey Nes· had been disco\lnted because of a crease violation.. The Refs determined that Audrey was pushed into the ctease after the score due to the unnecessary roughness of the Smithies, and the goal was declared good. Once more, credit r:nust: be given to the defense, Jane Levine, Sh.at:on Cannizzaro, Caten.Cahill, Ruth Krassenstein, and Barby Berk, who did an outstanding job of keeping the .. Smit}l score low. Goalie Josie Ritchie, the new hef.o of the team, dazzled the. fans with her incredible saves, over 30 in total. The only minor casualty to the Union team came when First home Allyne Price, in an attempt to play defense, stopped the ball with her right ey~, rather than· with her stick. All in all it was a game hard fought and hard won. T oday's game against Conn. Wesleyan was forfeited by them, so that goes down as another win in the U ni()n. scorebook. Record to d~te is 3-6-0. Scoring to date is as follows: Name Goals Asdtit* llts Allyne Price 8 4 12 Audrey Nes 8 2 10 Lynn Bateman 4 2 6 Barb Kaul 2 2 Barby Berk 1 I Katie Merz I l The girlS travel to Hartwick on Friday; and return home Monday to play their last game ·Of the season against Williams. Come out and support Union's new, winning athletic team. That's 4:00 p.m., this Monday on Library Field. The first eleven minutes of the third period had only one goal scored, as Albany scored on a quick break. The last four minutes ended with a flurry of scoring, with Union and Albany both scoring two goals. Albany i scored first to cut Union's lead to · two. Then Ray Stecker ran around one defender and fired a hard shot for a· score just when . the game's momentum seemed to be slipping from Union's grasp. A · rA\::\--c.,..o\'='m-m~n~te-e-~h-a-s-~b-e-e-tn . '-~· liill_ .............. ... minute and six seconds later I eonvene·d ~or the p· urpo· se 0 4 -··p-;A.C.E. EXkM · Little T foiling defender as Kanner looks on. \ Andy Brooks Wen .. t a·ro. und a I •• · 1 conducting a third year , The P.A.C.E. Exam will be de\.ender a· nd·· fired a h. ard left- · · ... · •• evaluation of Professor. given on Saturday, May 21, 1977 handed shot to increase Union's Shelton s. Schmidt. Studellts from 8:30 a.m. to 2:30 p.m. lead to four. Albany then got one .. and faculty interested in co~- I. ,I. •••••••••••• back in the period's final seconds. tr i b u tlng state me 0 ,t $ The Union squad controlled the ·concerning the teaching, fourth period and scored twice on . scholarship and contribution goals by Andy Brooks and Stu of Professor Schmidt to Union Napear. Albany scored once more • College are invited to send to make the final score Union 10 letters to Professor Thomas R. Albany 6. The team's next home Kershner, t:haitman, Depart- game is on May 7 versus ment of Economics. Hamilton. 'I. ;~--.....--------- ....... -..il . SENIORS: Order your '77 . Union Book now in the . Student Activities Office. The · Book will cost $5.00 for Seniors and $8.00 for all oth~rs. . ' c::: All to eli11 Leno:x r~suJ dissati freslm On sopho 'in. ' David ... asstgn studer appro upptr At- midn~ StlZall effigy Nott theO the e: 1:30 ·~ On Housi staten aU of to p ann<n lotte~:; Thun read: \'W Uniot and a a wan: your choio \TJ very: e'\lery· want. year ChaJll are 1 (i.e .. prefe: \Tl why ·t. fresh1 2. one instal on~ '\T suite! wiU suss• of t' fours livin1 Or was stud' .. ( Dow state

.-ed the no be as ical Cia I of this to the the and vely I Vol. 3, ·No. · 2 INSIDE: May 4, 1977 Voice Box Alumni Support Dean's List Revised THE PRICE OF EQUALITY by pat .gageant and: hope j .. fabian There are f(lur cultural groups on Union Campus, two of which are funded by the Student Tax Committee, and two of which are not because of their religious affiliation. The B.S.A. (Black Student Alliance) received $6,500 for the 1976-77 academic year, for approximately 40 active members; the Christian Fellowship is self- funded for about 20 active me m be r s; the I. S. A . (International Student Association} received $850 in 1976-77 for its 35 active members; J.S.O. (Jewish Student Organization) - Hillel is self- funded with aid from the Schenectady Jewish Center, for about II 5 members. It is the objective of this investigation to explore: I) the apparent inconsisteJ!CY of allotting one cultural group over seven times as much money as another cultural group with a comparable number of members; and 2) the equity of 1unding two groups with ethnic affiliations and not funding two groups because;: of their religious affiliations. Befor.e revealing this investigation, we feel an urgency to state our position of neutrality. In no way is this an attack on any one group; rather it is an inquiry into the inconsistencies of the Tax Committee in its budgeting policy. It is our conviction that the actual amount of the allocations decided upon by the Tax Committee are external to our questions and will not be encompassed - this is a matter left to the discretion of those experienced in' the distribution of funds. However, we do ask for a rationale behind the inconsistency of not budgeting all groups on a similar scale. The question here is not the modification of the funding of the B.S.A.; rather it is a question of the non-funding of other cvlt'Qrally oriented groups such as the J.S.O. and Christian Fellowship, and the. scant funding received by the I.S.A. General .Information One goal of tile B.S.A. is to provide a supportive group for Blacks and other minorities on campus. They provide cultural activities in an effort to compensate for the gaps they feel result from activities created for the benefit of the entire campus. Included in these activities are concerts, dances, parties, lectures, and movies; a great many of these occurring during Black Weekend. Alth<mgh these activttles are open to the whole campus, they are designed with the. purpose of creating an environment conducive to meeting the needs of Blacks on a predominantly White campus. ' The B.S.A. can be considered a fraternity. To attain membership in the B.SA. one are geared for the spiritual needs must be unanimously voted into on campus, and while designed the organization. This selectivity for its own members, are open to is a main component of. all interested. Because they do not fraternities. In .the past, some aim at producing social events, B.S.A. members have chosen to the Christian Fellowship's budget live together as a group in Hickok is minimal. For any large scale House. This year, for the first plans, they can approach a church time, the rooms in Hickok House in the Schenectady area for will be made available in the assistance.General expenses, lottery. To retain access to their whether for posters, supplies, headquarters and facilities located tra11sportation, or refreshments, in Hickok House, members of the are all.paid for by the members of B.S.A. have been grant~d 4 rooms the Fellowship, as they no longer in Hickok House for next year. receive financial aid. Although A second goal of the B.S.A. is purposive for the benefit of all on to merge their supportive group · campus, their membership list is into being a part of campus life; smaJl; and outside these few however, as stated, this goal is not stude11ts, campus interest IS totally representative ··of all the . negligible. members of B.S..A. This The main goal of the .attempted assimiliation is obvious International Students in that the B.S.A. has begun to Association is to integrate its advertise its activities· centrally on members into campus life. They campus as opposed to .its previous offer cultural activities for the advertisement solely in Hickok entire campus, in an attempt to House. Despite these efforts at give the rest of the student body a providing functions for the whole more comprehensive campus, well integrated social understanding of themselves. and cultural events are .few and Their activities consist of far between. international dinners, speakers, In its budgeting; the Tax movies, parties, dances, and Committee provides the B.S.A. ·concerts. They also have joint with funds for the pro.duction of events with the International its own newspaper, \Perspective\ Relations Cl'Qb, the B.S.A., and (typewriters, dark room International Students equipment, books, an~ extensive Ass<iciations of other schools in office supplies), magazine the vicinity. They usually do not subscriptions, stereo equipment, a attract a large number of non- telephone budget, parties and members to their activities dances (liquor, utilization of although their main goal is to WRUC, and police officers), and achieve better communication various equipment needed for · with tbe rest of the student body. concerts (employment of labor for The I.S.A. has a completely lighting and sound, rentals of open membership, and graduate buildings and chairs, decorations, stu<le11ts also have an active part guards, and refreshments). The in the I.S.A. The members, in B.S.A. supplements its income by furtlier attempts at integration, do providing a small revenue from not live together; they are these activities. dispersed throughout the campus The Christian Fellowship cominunity.'Their headquarters attempts to promote an are located in the Student Center, envir<lnment for religious giving the group a centrally teachings. This purpose is located meeting place. accomplished through weekly Another important goal of the activities such as Bible Study I.S.A is to aid foreign students sessions, chapel services, and with the .problems of visas, group discussions at Fellowship traveling, and basic adjustment to meetings. In previous yeilrs, when life in a new country. In many the Christian Fellowship was cases, these students come from funded by the Student Tax third world countries and find it Committee, their calendar also difficult to adapt to life in the included events co-sponsored by U.S.A. The I.S.A. provides them other groups on campus (for with ()ther internationals who ~re exam:ple, last year's square dance experiencing the same difficulties, with Hillel) and movies. and promotes interaction with Like the B.S.A., there is no upperclass students who have membership fee required. already adjusted and can share However, membership admittance their knowledge. is less formal; there are no The main expenditures of the selection procedures in this J.S.A. allotted tax money go to- organization. The members of the wards transportation, advertise- group have chosen io be dispersed men.ts, parties, concerts, and · t h r o ugh o u t t he c a rn pus supplies for their headquarters community rather than live (furniture). In past years they together. have provided sources of revenue Rather than an . ethnic or to add to their scant allotment cultural group, the Christian through fund-raising activities Fellowship views i~self as a such as dances and bake sales. religious co1llmunity. Activities Continued on Page 3 Campus Security: Powers Restricted? · How Secure Are We? by Iori walter The goals of a security department in a private institUtion are to protect those within the community and to maintain and enforce order within. However, as in any organization, there are problems that exist that may hinder the acllievement of these goals. Cliff Woods, Head of Security, sees the major limitation as the lack of arrest powers. In a crime situation, the guard only has the power to detain and to interrogate; but in order for any legal action to be taken, the police must be called in, and the guard must file a citizen's arrest. Fortunately, the liaison that Union College has with the Schenectady Police Department is a close one. If needed, the police can be contacted easily and may respond quickly. The hiring requirement does stipulate at least one year of some type of police training, so that each officer har. know ledge of the basic crimes and how to deal with them. But if the officer had the power of a .policeman, (i.e. they could arrest) then Mr. Woods feels the job would attract better people, the guards would be more authoritative, and thus, there would be stronger enforcement of both criminal and civil laws. Chris Conner, a former security guard, felt that there are many other limitations in the department that do not promote Continued on Page 2, Advise And Consent by peter mandel The scholastic advice available at Union College is a topic of interest to the student body. In order to properly review the present system, it was necessary to obtain feedback from the students and use it as a basis for interviewing the faculty. The issues discussed are: advice on courses outside the major; cate- gorizing students; poor advice; and the new general education system. The most widespread comment expressed by the students was that the advisors could not adequately recommend courses outside of their respective fields. After interviewing the faculty it was apparent this comment could not be accepted as an absolute fact. Every faculty member conceded that outside of their department their knowledge of most courses offered was not extensive~ Most advisors asserted that they do not recommend Continued on Page 4

bird the and oor . be N'est as ages sica! very of this to the nner both live, who they tter's the and jvely I I I and I d. I ~:::· Vol. 3, No. 2 INSIDE: May 4, 1977 Voice Box Alumni Support ~ Dean's List Revised L L L L?hii.Jt~t...lt;¢Jt~t.JI..JQ.Jl..»XJX>JX~l.Jt;tt..Jt.;X.JX.Jl.Jf-JI..)X.JI.JI.;t..)t.JI..;I...>I.Jf,JI..)I..JI,Jl-JX..>t...,l.,; THE PRICE OF EC!UALlTW by pat gageant ancl hope j. fabian There are fou·r cultural groups on Union Campus, two of which are funded by the Student Tax Committee, and two of which are not because of their religious affiliation. The B.S.A. (Black Student Alliance) received $6,500 for the 1976-77 academic year, for approximately 40 active members; the Christian Fellowship is self- funded for about 20 active members; the I.S.A. (International Student Association) received $850 in 1976-77 for its 35 active members; J.S.O. (Jewish Student Organization) - Hillel is self- funded with aid from the Schenectady Jewish Center, for about 115 members. It is the objective of this investigation to explore: I) the apparent inconsistency of allotting one cultural group over seven times as much money as another cultural group with a comparable number of members; and 2) the equity of funding two groups with ethnic affiliations and not funding two groups because of their religious affiliations. Before revealing this investigation, we feel an urgency to state our position of neutrality. In no way is this an attack on any one group; rather it is an inquiry into the inconsistencies of the Tax Committee in its budgeting policy. It is our conviction that the actual amount of the allocations decided upon by the Tax Committee are external to our questions and will not be encompassed this is a matter left to the discretion of those experienced in the distribution of funds. However, we do ask for a rationale behind the inconsistency of not budgeting all groups on a similar scale. The question here is not the modification of the funding of the B.S.A.; rather it is a question of the non-funding of other culturally oriented groups such as the J.S.O. and Christian Fellowship, and the scant funding received by the I.S.A. General Information One goal of the B.S.A. is to provide a supportive group for Blacks and other minorities on campus. They provide cultural activities in an effort to compensate for the gaps they feel result from activities created for the benefit of the entire campus. Included in these activities are concerts, dances, parties, lectures, and movies, a great many of these occurring during Black Weekend. Although these acttvtttes are open to the whole campus, they are designed with the purpose of creating an environment conducive to meeting the needs of Blacks on a predominantly White campus. The B.S.A. can be considered a fraternity. To attain membership in the B.S.A. one must be unanimously voted into the organization. This selectivity is a main component of fraternities. In the past, some B.S.A. members have chosen to live together as a group in Hickok House. This year, for the first time, the rooms in Hickok House will be made available in the lottery. To retain access to their headquarters and facilities located in Hickok House, members of the B.S. A. have been !lranted 4 rooms in Hickok House for next year. A second goal of the B.S.A. is to merge their supportive group into being a part of campus life; however, as stated, this goal is not totally represent::ttive ·of all the members of B.S.A. This attempted assimiliation is obvious in that the B.S.A. has begun to advertise its activities centrally on campus as opposed to its previous advertisement solely in Hickok House. Despite these efforts at providing functions for the whole campus, well integrated social and cultural events are few and far between. ln its budgeting, the Tax Committee provi<les the B.S.A. with funds for the production of its own newspaper, \Perspective\ (typewriters, dark room equipment, books, and extensive office supplies), magazine subscriptions, stereo equipment, a telephone budge1, parties and dances (liquor, utilization of WR UC, and poli~e officers), and various equipment needed for concerts (employment of labor for lighting and sound, rentals of buildings and chairs, decorations, guards, and refreshments). The B.S.A supplements its income by providing a small revenue from these activities. The Christian Fellowship attempts to promote an environment for religious teachings. This purpose is accomplished through weekly activities such as Bible Study sessions, chapel services, and group discussions at Fellowship meetings. In previous years, when the Christian Fellowship was funded by the Student Tax Committee, their calendar also included events co-sponsored by other groups on campus (for example, last year's square dance with Hillel) and movies. Like the B.S.A., there is no membership fee required. However, membership admittance is less formal; there are no selection procedllres in this organization. The members of the group have chosen to be dispersed throughout the campus community ratlJ.er than live together. Rather than an ethnic or cultural group, the Christian Fellowship views itself as a religious community. Activities are geared for the spiritual needs on campus, and while designed for its own members, are open to all interested. Because they do not aim at producing social events, the Christian Fellowship's budget is minimal. For any large scale plans, they can approach a cllu~ch in the Schenectady area for assistance.General expenses, whether for posters, supplies, transportation, or refreshments, are all paid for by the members of the Fellowship, as they no longer receive financial aid. Alth<>ugh purposive for the benefit of all on campus, their membership list is small; and outside these few students, campus interest is negligible. The main goal of the International Students Association is to integrate its members into campus life. They offer cultural activities for the entire campus, in an attempt to give the rest of the student body a more co mp rehen sive understanding of themselves. Their activities consist of international dinners, speakers, movies, parties, dances, and concerts. They also have joint events with the International Relations Club, the B.S.A., and International Students Associations of other schools in the vicinity. They usually do not attract a large number of non- members to their actJVlttes although their main goal is to achieve better communication with the rest of the student l>ody. The I.S.A. has a completely open membership, and graduate students also have an active part in the I.S.A. The members, in further attempts at integration, do not live together; they are dispersed throughout the carnpus community.Their headquarters are located in the Student Center, giving the group a centrally located meeting place. Another important goal of the I.S.A. is to aid foreign students with the problems of visas, traveling, and basic adjustment to life in a new country. In rnany cases, these students come from third world countries and find it difficult to adapt to life in the U.S.A. The I.S.A. provides them with other internationals who are experiencing the same difficulties, and promotes interaction with upperclass students who have already adjusted and can share their knowledge. The main expenditures of the I.S.A. allotted tax money go to- wards transportation, advertise- ments, parties, concerts, and supplies for their headquarters (furniture). ln past years they have provided sources of revenue to add to their scant allotment through fund-raising actiVIties such as dances and bake sales. Continued on Page 3 Campus Security: Powers Restricted? How Secure Are We? by lori walter The goals of a security department in a private institution are to protect those within the community and to maintain and enforce order \\-ithin. However, as in any organization, there are problems that exist that may hinder the achievement of these goals. Cliff Woods, Head of Security, sees the major limitation as the lack of arrest powers. In a crime situation, the guard only has the power to detain and to interrogate, but in order for any legal action to be taken, the police must be called in, and the guard must file a citizen's arrest. Fortunately, the liaison that Union College has with the Schenectady Police Department is a close one. If needed, the police can be contacted easily and may respond quickly. The hiring requirement does stipulate at least one year of some type of police training, so that each officer has knowledge of the basic crimes and how to deal with them. But if thl! officl!r had the power of a policeman, (i.e. they could arre~t) then Mr. Woods feeb the job would attract better people, the guard~ would be more authoritative, and thu~, there would be stronger cnfon:ement of both crimmal and civil laws. Chris Conner, a former security guard, ldt that there arc many other limitations in the department that do not promote Continued on Page 2 Advise And Consent by peter mandel The scholastic advice available at Union College is a topic of interest to the student body. In order to properly review the .present system, it was necessary to obtain feedback from the students and use it as a basis for interviewing the faculty. The issues discussed are: advice on courses outside the major; cate- gorizing students; poor advice; and the new general education system. The most widespread comment expressed by the students was that the advisors could not adequately recommend courses outside of their respective fields. After interviewing the facully it was apparent this comment ..:ould not be accepted as an absolute fact. Every faculty member conceded that outside of their department their knowledge of most courses offered was not extensive. Mo:,t ad\isors asserted that they do not recommend Continued on Page 4

Page 2 Union College Campus Voice . May 4, ·1977 THE· VOICE BQ:X R~ntly, it was brought to the attention of the new editorial board that there existed a large fissure in the services that the campus's publications furnished. Specific.lly, the~ is no ·campus problem line whereby these publications could add.ress themSelVes .to the most troublina subjects, academic or otherwise, of its readership, thus beconi:ina ntOIC able to ~omprcbend tile needs of the community, column whose pu:rpose it is to ·do investigative rep!orting in the areas ·that coUese community me111bers woulil deem most important and relevant to the life here at Union. So if you got.an. F in a course last term when you bad an A averase, or if you -can't undenfand· wily va~ sunm of money are being spent to beautify the entrance to tlte Skellcr while the Nott is falling apart, or if you teally don't care about eitlieJ' of tla.esc and just ·tp~ a prciblem, wri~ \' the V:oi~ Box:, IIZSS6 in. the C.ameRie mail.room .. To better .serve the · college Cl;lnmtlimty,. \The Campus Voice\ has undertaken to start a new An ex~convict, originally confined for murder and rape, was hired last week by the R.A .. Selection Committee to assist in maintaining a proper level of security in their f/eliberations. the goals of security. Mr. Conner brought up the First of all, there are no job point that each security guard is guidelines for a security guard. personally liable every time he There is no physical fitness acts. In essence, this means that requirement nor any yearly review the officer has no legal rights to 1 of the officers. Granted, many of protect hi~self and in fact, the guards are retired policemen nothing to gain by acting in a and they have . many years of situation of any type of risk. experience behind them, but this Combining th1s with the low training is not sufficient to handle salary the job offers might cause the problems that may arise on a a lack of enthusiasm or even · college campus. All security 1 inefficiency on the job. Chris also office~s shout~ have training in 1 pointed that the security uniforms first. a1d, h~ndlmg problems when 1 are now very similar to that of the · deahng w1th adolescents, drug Schenectady Police. This might overdose, p r oced tires, · cause some confusion in a intervention in fights, etc. There situation where an alleged crime isn't even a handbook that · is being committed and the outlines exactly what the duties of cdminal who realizes he is C!lUght, the guard are. The requirements thinks he is being pursued by a for being a security person are policeman. (i.e. someone who is . such that they might allow the armed). lt could lead to an hiring of men that would not be extremely dangerous incident for able to handle a particular a security guard. emergency situation that might Another noticeable factor arise on a campus such as Union's. Con~inu,ed-:on Page 4 For the past three terms this campus has been plagued by controversial issues which have severely polarized the students, the faculty, and the .campus in general. Little more can be said concerning Division ![Division II hockey which has not already been said, except to .-eemphasize its all-encompassing effects. There is an imminent shake-up of the administration ha1,1ging over us which has given students a new pastime -trying to guess which administrators will be back in the Fall. Jay Shupe's actions as Director of Admissions will be fully reviewed. The Mark Smith incident will undergo complete investigation and his competence as Dean of Students will be assessed. And President Bonner's resignation Will be considered - once again!! All this will happen during the summer vacation and none of us will be here to say a word. It is quite ironic that Union :,.: ••CBH•~-~.j~·-~- ••••••••••+•••••...,••• •• ~~: . ~~~:~llnd~~d~!;~ ~~a~t:~~~~ ~ ~ give us great .publicity all around the country. Our reputation as a : ~- · ,. . · ~·- . ~. . -~ E ~:!e ~~:-~alpaart.rt so/~~~~ 8 ~u~~:_i_!~ ~ . · . . · · . 11: and mcreased adm1sstons, and ! · . · ·. · . ~-, possibly greater alumni funding· ~ . · • · . . · \\ 1 wou,ld have been the result. : [) @~ : . Instead, all the administrative .;: · . . iC problems and a-dmission .;: . . . . . il ~ discre_ 1 ~~tcies have been plastered .;: t across the newspapers throughout .;: . . · · iC 1 the U.S. Even the CBS show .. 60 ***************************~******* iC, Minutes\ was reportedly asked ~ STAFF: seth okun, jan roster, Iori walt~rt ira ~ · (by a Union alumnus) if they : coodman, ken wilsker, ruth rappaport, mike kramer, : would like to do ~ se~ment on il rkb siecel, beth karUn, robin lebow, illiee tufel, .;: h.ow. a hockey s1tuat1on was. il - . . , .;: nppmg apart a campus! iC pat gageant \' m.ark c.o_.pes . peter mandel il With all that is going on now ! PHOTO STAFF: bill maiDiek, joe tauber, midleUe : and all that will be decided t_his iC eohen, hans beUman, jolm tydinast jay levy, sue .;: summer! vyould YOU; as a htgh il u 1 btman debbie katz il school Jumor or semor, want to t ' . · . . -il go here? Would you, as a-parent, il PHOTOGRAPH-Y EDITOR: aim stem . t send your son/ daughter here? Do il EDIT.ORlAL BoARD· hope fllblln, hill malniek .;: you, as a -present student here, •. · jo ... .o~a.- 8 . k · L-..a b. • ' if want to stay here, here at a_ school ~ ........ · un, Ul-- arry . -tr . h .' h \ · · *****'****,..,'*~*~:.a.~.a;aa..~•••.L...L**'J>.w.lf.***'**it:. w _oSI?· ~putat1on as -.~)allen .$0 · ·• , • •• · • · \\' \\ · \'•\'· J!!l. ,.,..~ ·1!'1 ' · · . ll\<. • ,., · ~- much? • Fair- Grades To the Voice ~o\: I am writing this letter because and decided thll.t I did not deserve I feel that I have no where else to -an A!! My only alternative was to t\rn. In short, Union College has I ask Dean Brownlee to speak to no official procedure for the I my professor. :Needless to say I review of a student's grade which · viewed · the prospects as dim. he feels might' be arrived at There was no Set procedure to unfairly. This is a serious short- turn to as tbere is at other coming. in our grading system sehools. especially when it is considered To think t!Iat professors are that Union grades on a four point completely objective and fair one system ~nd we are speaking of full 1 hundred per~e.nt of the time is grade d1fferences. , completely unrealistic, They are To cite one instance, I had been . human and are su.bject to giventheopportunityto rewrite a emotions ~nd personal final paper. The professor assured judgements. \litis. is human nature me that if 1 received a B+ or : and cannot be changed. But such above on the paper, I would a human disposition ro.ust be receive an A for the course. If I · checked. This · becomes crucial decided not to rewrite the paper I when we realiz.e the weight given would receive a B for the course. I cumulative grade point averages. remained at school for an extra I feel this is something that three days to write the paper. must be loo.ked into. How .many When I returned l found my .students are accepting .biased grade was a B. I went to get my judgements <Ill their grades and paper and f~'l!.nd the grade was a . accepting thera because they feel 8+. My professor said he any effort woU:l<l he a futile one? reconsidered over the vacation Name Withheld Dean's LiSt Revised When the Senior class arrived at school in ·1973, ,fieveral academic guidelines were set upon them. For three years Dean's List meant having at least a 3.0 cum, and many of them enjoyed holding that distinction. Then, in their fourth and final year, a good number of seniors were cut off from an honor they had worked hard for. In the last stretch of their studies, after 3!h years, a change in -the Latin Honors is being sprung upon them. The current college catalogue states that \Seniors Who have attained at the end of the second term of their final year a given cumulative index . are graduate9 Summa cun1 laude (3.65 or better), magna ·cum laude (3.5- 3.64) or cum laude (3.0-3.49).\ N.ow, in the third and final term, seniors who have fulfilled the requirements stated in their handbook.s are not being justly rewarded. It is the finest students who will suffer from a decision they had no .. say in. ma~ing. Members of the junior. class have 2~ term& left in order to complete gra~e point averages that · may ql.l.alify for Latin Honors. They; too, ~haU .suffer from this act ~f changing horses in midstrean. Ideally it is true that a ~;tudent ought to be w<Jrking for. educa· tion's sake atJ.d not for some Greek words tb.at accompany ~is or her na!Ile on the diploma. However, ceruin . terms · were spelled out for l.is in the beginning of our studies 1 and Jhose promises must not be reneged in the ·final stages of our ·Work. Editor's Note: As stated in last week's Colle4lrdiensis, Andy Koblenz brougbt this issue Up to th~ All-College Senate during their April 26 111eeting. After a lengthy debate as to whose responsibility it is to decide such things, \a subs;titute motion was approved callin.J!·forthe faculty to reconsider the implementation of the new standards starting with the class of ·'.78.\ Wiil Of!lY the class of '7.7 suffer this injustice? '' Du I.S att1 scli 1 pr(J the the cul act stu are Isr: lee s.u Di1 lik• l is • re( Al1 of lea Orj all me: of int SU4 co Sc me fet Sp4 m~ wi: de: of M1 an the Q no to ke illl at1 n s~ St an dr re: tb in ca ra fu St ra be ca re w c C4 n ir tl ~ c a S! tl jl v M ra1 B. Fi nll re' Tl al co a or es $2

A of of in. erve to to I to are one is are to such be that and feel to tin orne ~is ning last p to a was to n of with the May 4, 1977. Union College Campus Voice •. X .. . s they adhered to. Over the pass~ge of time, the Student Forum has imposed a distortion of the intent of this liberal viewpoint to a narrower sense whereby,. there can be no financial support for any .group with a religious affiliation. Thus, a policy of not ContinUed' from Page 1 Due to their limited resources, th~ I.S.A .. supplements its calendar by atten:dang l.S.A. events at other S<:hools. As stated in this year'!! propo&(:d constitation (rejected .on the basis of its religious. nature); the JSO-Hillel aims \to ,offer cultu.,._l, social. and educational activities of a Judaic nature to the student community.\ These goals are encompassed in events such as lsr:aeli dancillg, a film series, lectur~rs, discussion groups, Sunday brunches, Shabbot Dinners ancl special productions like this year's ••cmnadoll\.. . Membership in the JSO-Hillel is dpen to all on campus but does require a membership fee. Although all of their members are. of the Jewish faith, this year's leadership stated that their organization tries' to provide for all with Jewish interests, whether manifested in the historical nature of many of the .films or personal interest in __ discussion of topics such as interfaith marriages. JSO'-Hillel is funded by contribu.tiQns from the Schenectady Jewish Center; membership dues and admission· fees for some of the activities they sponsor - this charge differs ro.r· members anQ non membefi;. -As with the Christian Fellowship any deficit in expenditures comes out of their own pockets. Alth 0 ugh Mrs. Marra keeps their· accounts and. handles all transactions for them . in the Student Activities Center, the Tax Committee does not finance JSO-Hillel. Of all four groups, Hillel seems to offer the functions most in keeping with. campus interests as illustrated by the high rate of attendance by non-members. Their movies and lectures in SS016 are usually packed, Sunday brunches are a big success and speakers· at Shabbot dinners draw a sizeable crowd. Hillel representatives did not view themselves purposive of integrating their group ·into campus; rather, they attempt to raise Jewish consc~ousness as a function of their efforts. Seemingly, they do service a large range of interests that extends beyond the Jewish population on campus. Implications The major question, after reviewing this information is: On what basis does the Tax Committee allot funds? The procedure of the committee could be to allot money oil the basis of the . importance of the club, that is, the degree to which the club has ~rviced the entire campus community, whether academically, culturally, or socially. ln 1975 a survey was taken in which the students did just this,. Excerpts from the results were as follows: su\porting any one specific religion has been transformed to a $145,000, all of which goes to the policy of not supporting any Student Tax Committee for ,the religion at all on campus. The financing of these clubs. From question, subsequent to this the . above listed data, the. 1'ax derived policy is, how is a ·~union\ Committee does not seem to take . 0 f people established by not into consideration the opinions of segregating the campu 11 into the student body in allotting these religious groups, when measures funds. Instead, in conjunction ate taken to distinguish ethni~; with the Student Forum, they groups? implied in this policy is a establish priorities which may not fine 'line which differentiates be r.eptesented in popular between religious segregation. and opinion. However, the ,act .of ethnic segregation. However,' the -compensating for the Black end result is the same- .. a union needs .as a minority on campus of peoples\ is not achieved. cloes not seem to extend to compensating for the needs of ConClusion foreign students on campus, We conducted numerous although they as well constitute a interviews and researched aU four minority. organizations thoroUghly to A second possibility could be obtain this infon;natian. The that the Tax Committee allots rationale arrived at for the large funds. on. the basis of necessity. discrepancy in the funding of the However, there are visible U.S.A. and the I.S.A. was inconsistencies in · budgeting on complex. The B.S.A, can be this basis as well. This is obvious considered a more oppressed in the fact that many of the items minority and therefare must be budgeted for the B.S.A. (and ~ade to feel on par with. the therefore apparently necessary), dominating student organizations. are not budgeted for the I.S.A. Foreign students do not feel as For instance; the Student Tax oppressed as the Black minority, Committee deems large scale and therefore do not express such enterprises such as dances (which a strong need for large scale require police officers, live bands, events. Ill fact, the budget e!C.) necessary to accomplishing proposals of the L S.A. did not the goals of the B.S.A. However, include extensive funding. Stated the l.S:A~ is not viewed as having simply, the l.S.A. did not get the similar needs. For members of the same funding as the B.S. A. I.S.A. to hold a large scale- dance because they did not request it. at the end of Spring term, they The l.S.A. is a relatively new · have imposed Upon themselves organization, .presently going something along the lines of an throu_gh a turnover in leadership austerity budget. What this means as ~11 organizations must at one is that all allotted tax money has time or another. Unsteady in been saved for their grand finale structur~ unconfident due to the and their other activities either lack of receptiveness on campus forfeited or were made .. possible and fearful of a ·bureaucratic by revenu~ resultant from institution holding the power to fundraisers. deny the funding they request, the The. Student Tax Committee I.S.A. has failed to make the must work within the limits of demands that we have defended available student activity fees and as their just deserves. The Tax therefore can not possibly meet Committee authorities do; the demands of all campus however, feel that even if the groups. The request that the ISA l.S.A. did request such additional have funds for a large dance and funding, there is no guarantee as well continue their regular that they will get it, the reason activities, does not seem like an being that they are not as well unreasonable request. It is, in organized as the B.S.A. and fact, what the B.S.A. has asked therefore do not contribute as for, and received. This parallel much to the campus community. used between the two groups is Isn't it also possible thatwerethe not unwarranted ~ they have l.S.A. to make such additional membership lists of comparable demands, they would be denied size and are both considered a simply because their minority (therefore necessitating dissatisfaction does not constitute their own associations because a threat to campus tranquility? their interests and needs are not The second question 9f ·ethnic totally included in the activities groups versus religious groups, is sponsored for the whole campus.) as well, a. complex matter. As A third factor which the ordered by the Student Forum, Student Tax Committee could the Student Tax Committee feasibly include in their offered both JSO-Hillel arid the assessment of campus activities is Christian Fellowship some the actual .. services\ the activity funding if they changed the provides. Because the B.S.A., nature .of their organization from I.S.A. and Christian Fellowship religious to cultural. Both groups attract a negligible amount of rejecte(l this type of financial aid student interest and participation on the basis that religion was an (relative to total campus integral part of their function and population),. Hillel would seem to could not be .. delineated into a merit a greater proportion of separate entity. Their qulture and funds due to the fact that they religion are orie, an(l to separate encompass more .student interest the two WoUld cause the spiritual ••••••••••••••••••••••••••! downfall of the organizations. To Committee Rank Tax Allotment :the members of these two BSA . 37 $ 10 • 680 i organizations, it is more Christian Fellowship defunct during '75 no allotment . important to rely on funds from ISA 27 $1,130 other sources than to stifle their JSO-Hillel 24 no allotment religious affiliations; many times Modern Dance~ which was ranked one degree below the B.S.A, received only $730~ The Film Committee was rated number 4 by the student poll, and received $680 less than the B.S.A. This obvious inconsistency in allotments; can only lead to the conclusion that the Student Tax Committee does not allot funds on the basis of importance as estimated by the student body. Each term, every student pays $25 in activity fees, in sum t these other sources are their own private income. . in the functions they sponsor. This dilemma could be viewed The last .question to be rah1ed in from the reference point of how this investigation is, why fund many of the people interested in B.S. A. and· I,S.A. and not Hillel these organizations pay student or Christian Fellowship? The activity fees and therefore, have a rationale for this stems from the legitimate right to be funded. The fact that Union College prides dilemma can also be viewed from itself on being one of the first a moral viewpoint. Whether there non-sectarian academic be a majority or a minority, if institutions. This; in its original there are people 'pursuing a goal meaning, meant not associating that i11 not destructive but with one religious denomination harmless, enlightening, and in exclusively, but instead, admitting every respect, constructive t~ the ' s~u~en\s .re-rdJe~s of whi((h fa..ith. , nec;ds of these people an.d those affected, and irthese people ate willing ·to devote their time and effort towards the achievement of this goal, is it not incumbent '!pon an institutioo of higher. Page 3 learning which teaches these same values of dedication and education, to aid rather than obstmct the pursuance of this goal? Lamont House: Alumnf. Afiairs Headquarters ALUMNI SUPPORT: by bill malnick It is quite common to hear that Union doesn't have strong alumni support. This is manifested in the obvious neglect of upkeep of the physical campus. If we had m~re money, the asbestos ceilings that are slowly giving us cancer would be replaced, the ex:terior of the ·buildings would get badly needed paint jobs, carpeting would be replaced, etc. However, before - you go this far, you must examine our alumni support. Our alumni support is quite good if you look at the percentage that participate. We have about 54% which is between lOth and 20th in the country and is approximately the same as Williams and Bowdoin, two schools that we are often compared to. Why don't we receive as much money as these two schools? Our total value of alumni gifts is only about half as much as either of these schools and the average gift given is also about half as much as Williams or Bowdoin. Even with a high percentage participating, we don't f~re ~ety well because our average g1ft 1s so low. In an article in ·UNION COLLEGE, the bim.onthly alumni magazine, this problem Was explained that Union had \a strong and loyal corps of supporters who give regularly in the lower and middle ranges, but it has too few giving the maximum major annual gift that would raise both the average and the totals to their proper level.\ In other words, we have people of a different socioeconomic background and level than Williams or Bowdoin. They have more people who are .. from money\ while we have a large amount of people who are middle class or upper middle class who can afford smaU donations but just don't ha:ve enough to giv~ a large amount. Also, we have a great percentage of students who go to professional schools and often, in these cases, the students' allegiance to a school (as well as his donation) goes to the professional school and not Union. During any given year, we try to get money from alumni through the phonathon, mailings, class agents, . etc. However, this isn't good enough. As well as student help being needed to do everything, we must start getting to alumni as soon as they graduate here. As reported by a member of the Committee on Alumni Relations, it .is felt that our alumni support is good, but it is nowhere near our potential. We must get Union alumni to come back to the physical campus often; we must find ways to get them here. Our alumni support is as good as can be expected with the poor attempt to push for support. Though partiCipation has been constantly increasing and dollars received have been increasing, in terms of inflation, with the value of the dollar decreasing, the \real value\ of our gifts has not gone up much at all and might even have decreased. We are not coming anywhere near our potentiaL If we spent more in publicity, if we found more ways to get alumni back on campus, then we could do much better. We just haven't pushed enough. Rather, we have sat around and watched the money come in the way it always has and have not tried much that is new. This year, Debbie Kilgus, Associate Director of Alumni Affairs, has started new ways of getting alumni money which look promising. In the past, the alumni office appears not to have been willing to spend a little bit more money in order to try to get much more money in return. If you added a bit more money to publicity, if you added more money to the brochures to make them nicer, then you could brin~ :., in much more money -- y:da\~. :·' . would have the mushroom effect. If we could raise our average gift from the present $67.15 to $80.00 then our total dollars through alumni would be raised from $458,094 to $545, 760! And this doesn't even take into account that due to better publicity and more money spent in the right places, our percentage participating would probably go up too. Our alumni support is good })ut we can do much better with a bit more money put in the right places.

Page 4 Union College Campus Voiee May 4, 1977 Roving Reporter SecUrity by sue ligbtman and jan rosker QUESTION: What Jo you see as the college's single most crucial problem and how woqld you solve it? Continued from .. ,page l about the department th~t Chris felt is a large detriment is the lack of women in it. He noted that xnany women are hesitant to call security and (lre often afraid of being intilnidated by the men on the force. It is tbe opinion of this writer tha1J' female. guards would . be easier for the women on this ---------------------------ii-11111!1_. ____ ..__,..,. ____ campus to relate to, and in that security .department that need to be reviewed and i~pr~ved. Mr. Connor had presented some of. the revisions he felt would be beneficial to the department in writing but no action has yet been taken to institUte any. of these changes. He feels that the d~panment can succeed to the fullest extent in its functioning oil campus if there is a reallocation of power and funds. It can be seen that the goals of security are' hampered by much more than the non-police status of the men. The · other limitations of the department are recognizable an~ therefore should be remedied· as' soon as possible. Suggestions for ig:iprovement cannot he ignored if the security department is to keep Union really ''secure.\ Debbie Katz - Freshman There are several crucial issues. Ron McCammon - Senior way, more problems that females There seems to me to be a complain about C()Uid be ,solved. internal conflict about ·Having ·only ·one woman in the Division I issue because nolboclvl department is just not enough to seems to be·tellingeach other take care of all the women's truth. The soluti.on would be · · needs. hockey stay Division U When · asked if he felt the school is more accustomed department was ·efficient, M:r. A major concern is getting rid of . the Comp. Ed, system, We sboud definitely explore the E.P.C.'s · proposaL A second concern is the library. The facilities in aU areas are poor and there does not seem to be anything being done about iL And finally there is the administration. We should clean that up and let the students know what is going on. sport. There is just too · Conner replied that with respect 1 hetnl!. pushed too fast. · to the way the moriey is budgeted. he did n.ot. see that the security department could be . called an .efficient one. It is not well-organized in that there are often just as many directors as there are guards on duty. Also, there ate jobs that could be given to students for which professional guards have been bired. It would seem that any job a student is capable ·of dcing should be reserved for them, even if for the sole reason that students work for lower salaries than. specially-hired Bob Lillienstein - Freshman I do not see anything wrong witb ·what Bonner has done. I think his goals for a comprehensive ·college are just what Union needs. · The single most crucial problem ir:; that too many people try to find a pf()blem and feel that they are experts on it. All the conflict of opinion is actually making the problem. The best thing that COllld happen is the moratorium that was instituted. The investigating committee, that the trustees formed is the only effective means of solving the problem. ' Cohen - Senior single most lpr·ob•letn is to maintain ri11nr•~~H~I lac:ad·emtc standards in the. face declining quality of our 1--..--------\!\!\\----------------flPJ:t~can_~ pool. A solution would to attract outside funding to Bruce Klion - Sophomore The biggest problem is the lack of leadership- because the campus is divided on so many issues - athletics, arts, library, and housing, are just a few. We need strong leaders and no one is taking initiative. A possible solution would be to have a campus-wide referendum which · would express the ideas of the student body. Once these ideas are expressed more direction is given to anyone in a leadership position. Andrea Shandell - Sophomore innovative programs would attract candidates that lw•rmld otherwise not come here. On the surface, the crucial problem seems to be in the administration. However, I feel 1---~~~~~~~-------------1 the directing force of this probiem ~ is inherent in President Bonner's '1 desire to make Union \a comprehensive college\. Due to Union's small student body, I feel this is an unrealistic goal. I think we need an administration who has realistic goals for· Union. Joanna Bornstein - Sophomore The most crucial problem is the reputability of .the college. l might suggest an all campus meeting with administration and the students present. The students should be told exactly what is going on and then they would be able to work together to straighten this out. Honesty is the only answer. Rich Stauber - Junior I think the most crucial problem is housing because they are trying to fill spots without c()nsidering the priorities and desires of the students. For ex.ample, putting transfers up in Potter House. I would make Lenox Road all fraternities or coed. North should also be coed f()r upper classmen only. Prof. Downing - Psychology Obviously, the most important problem is in the administration. There is obvious failure but exactly who is to blame is clear. I do not really know of a solution. Modern iProf. Klemm . Languages : Obviously, the , most crucial 'problem at the moment is to get all the forces at the college pulled together to avoid all the polarization that has taken place in recent weeks. The~e is no easy solution, if people of good will get together in the spirit of cooperation rather than bitter animosity no problem is insolvable. Weekly meetings of The Campus Voice are held Wednesday. nights. at 7:30 in 201 Carnegie~ guards. . · ._ ._ ~ • ~ IEl. It seems that there_ il~e a great \~ \~ \~ \~ \r:=l \~ number of chatactenstlcs of the · · Advisory System Continued frown Page 1 . . ., J Ot twen the Thes bon( unde cr.itj Aut< stOOl the it two Coll (;OD!:i seni~ for : top

Page 4 Union College Campus V a ice May 4, 1977 Roving Reporter Security by sue lightman and jan rosker QUESTION: What do you see as the college's sin~le most crucial problem and how would you solve it? Continued from Page l about the department that Chris felt is a large detriment is the lack of women in it. He noted that many women are hesitant to call security and are often afraid of being intimidated by the men on the force. lt is the opinion of this writer that female guards weuld be easier for the women on this ---------------------------~.--------------1. campus to relate to, and in that security department that need to be reviewed and improved. Mr. Connor had presented some of the fevisions he felt would be beneficial to the department in writing but no action has yet been taken to institute any of these changes. He feels that the department can succeed to the fullest extent in its functioning on campus if there is a reallocation of power and funds. It can be seen that the gGals of security are hampered by much moFe than the non-police status of the men. The other limitations of the department are recognizable and therefore should be remedied as soon as possible. Suggestions for improvement cannot be ignored if the security department is to keep Union really \secure.\ Debbie Katz - Freshman Ron McCammon - Senior There seems to me to be a lot way, more problems that females · complain about could be solved. TheFe are several crucia•l issues. A major concern is getting rid of the Comp. Ed. system. We shoud definitely explore ti;!e E.P.C.'s proposal. A second concern is the library. The facilities in ali areas are poor and there does not seem to be anything being done about it. And finaHy there is the administration. We should clean that up and let the students know what is going on. ' of internal conflict about the Division I issue because nobody seems to be telling each otller the truth. The solution weuld be to have hockey stay Division II antil · Having only one woman in the department is just not enough to take care of all the women's needs. When asked if he felt the department was efficient, Mr. Conner replied that with respect to the way the money is budgeted, he did not see that the security department could be called an efficient one. lt is not well-organized in that there are often just as many directors as there are guards on duty. Also, there are jobs that could be given to students for which professienal guards have been hired. It would seem that any job a student is capable of doing should be reserved for them, even if for the sole reason that students work for lower salaries than specially-hired guards . Bob Lil!ienstein - Freshman I do not see anything wrong with ·whatBonnerhasdone.lthink his goals for a comprehensive college are just what Union needs. The single most crucial problem is that too many people try to find a problem and feel that they are . . experts on it. All the conflict of opinion is actually making the problem. The best thing that could happen is the moratorium that was instituted. The investigating committee that the trustees formed is the only effective means of solving the problem. the school is more accustomed to the sport. There is just too m. being pushed too fast. Cohen - Senior The single most crucial is to maintain rigorous 1a~oauu;;u:u-.; standards in the face declining quality of It seems that there are a great number of characteristics of the Weekly meetings of The Campus Voice are held Wednesday. nights at 7:30 in 201 Carnegie. Advisory System F---------------------------f~PJlllc:ant pool. A solution would to attract outside funding to Bruce Klion - Sophomore The biggest problem is the lack of leadership because the campus is divided on so many issues - athletics, arts, library, and housing, are just a few. We need strong leaders and no one is taking initiative. A possible solution would be to have a campus-wide referendum which would express the ideas of the student body. Once these ideas are expressed more direction is given to anyone in a leadership position. innovative programs would attract candidates that otherwise not come here. Continued from Page 1 courses outside of their not all advisors are perfect or department unless a student asks even adequate for every student. them about a specific course or Obviously this is due to the unless the course complementsthe personal needs of every major. Actually, in dealing with individual. However, the advising complementary courses, it is system at Union has an informal important for the advisor to stress aspect that is readily available to , the necessity of these courses. For every student. Almost any .example, it is possible to be a professor at this school is more biology major and not take any than happy to help a student with chemistry courses. This would be questions. Additionally, if there is foolish to do if the student in , a professor in the department a question is planning to pursue dissatisfied student prefers, he can biology after he graduates. In this officially change advisors. The case the advisor would not be system fails when a student doing ; a proper job if he did not decides he does not need an inform this biology major of the advisor. There were a number of situation. Excluding similar seniors who said that they have Andrea Shandell - Sophomore On the surface, the crucial problem seems to be in the administration. However. I feel J.m-------------ol circumstances, most advisors not seen an advisor since their rarelyrecommendcoursesoutside freshman year. This is of their departments. Thus it ' disappointing because often the appears that the comments made best advice comes from by students pertaining to this ' experience. No student is ever topic are not jmtified. forced to take advice he doc~ not r1l It . the directing force of this problem ' is inherent in President Bonner's desire to make Union \a comprehensive college\. Due to , Union's small student body, I feel . . this is an unrealistic goa.l. I think · we need an administration who has realistic goals for Union. Joanna Bornstein - Sophomore l he most cructal problem is the reputabtllly ol the college. I mtght suggc~t an all campus meeting with admtmstrataon and the studcnts present. I he students should bc told exactly what is goang on and then they would be able to work together to straaghtcn this out. Honesty is the only answer. Rich Stauber - Junior I think the most crucial problem is housing because they are trying to fill spots without considering the priorities and desires of the students. For example, putting transfers up in Potter House. I would make Lenox Road all fraternities or coed. North should also be coed for upper classmen only. Pr.;f. Downing - Psy(!hology The second topic refers to an agree with. The present system is alleged claim that the faculty very flexible and can be effective Obviously, the most important problem is in the adminis~ration. I here is obvious failure but exactly who is to blame is not clear. I do not really know of a solution. 1 categorizes the students and is Jf only uttliLed. \trying to shape the student Another point of interest is the body.\* It should be noted this ... General Education plan. Every comment came from only a small advisor interviewed thought that minority of the students the new plan was better suited to interviewed and all of these the needs of the students than the students were pre-professional former plan. They stressed it people. The fallacy of this notion would help broaden the education was explained by the faculty in of every student. In addition, one the science center. If a biology professor suggested this would major decides he is pre-med, he is inherently allow students to immediately placing himself in a discover a field other than his group. This is due to the simple major of interest to him. Then, fact that if this pre-med biology with his available free electives, major is to meet his minimum pursue this field and acquire requirements for his major and to depth in more than one field. qualify for medical school, he Only time will reveal the true must take eleven required courses value of the General Education and nine other biology cour-ses! plan but the prevailing This is not including any comp- expectations are high. Prof. Klemm Modern :Languages . Obviously, the most crucial problem at the moment is to get all the forces at the college pulled together to avoid aH the · polarization that has taken place in recent weeks. There is no easy solution, if people of good will get together in the spi>rit of· cooperation rather than bitter animosity no problem is insolvable. ed or general-ed requirements. In conclusion, the advisory Thus it appears that the advisor system at Union College is has very little choice in what actually quite satisfactory. In courses to tell his students to general the complaints by take. Hence, it appears that the students were found to be due to advisors do not categorize their misunderstandings. Basically, the students, the students do it key to the system is held by the themselves. student who uses it. The next issue voiced by * This is a direct quote froiD a students was that their advisors stt!dent who wishes to remain consistently gave them poor anonymous. advice. It cannot be denied that 1 OJ twell the The! hont undc crit A Uti stoo thei1 two Coll COOl seni for top ... :, ,'·1 ':,_:d'j i

' ' How suite it isn't Volume 106, No. 22 May 11, 1977 Latin Honors Change Revoked In an unusual meeting of the faculty last Monday, the faculty decided by voice vote to revoke the Latin Honors .change. The meeting, filling about 2/3s of the Old Chapel, was chaired by President Bonner. In additivn to the decision to reinstate the old Honors requirements, the faculty clearly affirmed its view that honors should l:>e confirmed upon their decisions. not the Senate's as is currently the case. Also . attending the meeting were three seniors: Ron BergmaQ.. Barb Samoff, and David Moskowitz. The controversy around Latin Honors aro!!le this year when Concordy contacted the registrar on a \hunch\ and reported an apparent change in the Latin Honors; to 3.35 for Cum Laude, 3.6 for Magna Cum Laude, and 3.8 for Summa Cum Laude. When the Senate passed the raising of Dean's list to 3.35, the Honors change wa~ also rnadc, but not by a Senate vote. Andy Koblenz, Junior Trustee, noted that the Senate never voted on the change and that it had been made by the registrar. It was again reminded at the Senate meeting on April 26, by Senator Koblenz that the Honors change wall still in effect. After lengthy discourse · it was decided that the faculty . should hold a meeting to Housing Burns Class of '80 determine the propriety of the change. It was decided at the faculty meeting that the change w011ld not be binding on the Class of 1977. In a letter endorsed by five A move by the housing office to eliminate all freshmen living in Lenox Road dormitories has r~s ulte-d in widespread dissatisfaction and anger among fresltmen and sophomores. · · Oil Monday · ~pt, May 9, sophomores found many roomli ,ffi. West College, Ricbmond, Davidson, and fox ·sou~ assigned ·to incoming.· ,. ftesb,ntJID students. West was limited to approximately 30-40 pctcel1t upper...classmen housing. At- approximately twelve midnight ·Tuesday, a likeness of Suzanne Dowling was hung in effagy in a tree just east of the Nott Memorial. A phone call to the Conc«»rdienses office said that the effigy would be bupted by 1:30 a.m. On the same day, Director of Housing Dowling released a statement which said that· nearly all of the suite housing was closed to ptesent freshmen. IJ also · announced that, the freshman lottery would be postponed until Thursday, May 12. The statement read: \We are nearing the end of Union's first campus-wide lottery, and as many of you are probably a~re. the spaces available for your class may not be your fttst choice. \This in part is the result of the very nature of the lottery ~ not evecyone gets what they most want. And because this is the first year of the lottery, a major change in housing selection, we are experiencing this situat~on (i.e.. sophomores getting .last preference) for the fJnt time~ \There are two otber reasons why your options are decreased: 'L a decision to eliminate freshmen from . Lenox Road 2. the arrival of two sororities, one new fraterriity and the re- instatement of another fraternity on.carnpus '\There are virtually no full suites available, so most of yoll will be living in doubles. We sugg¢St that you ~rrive ill groups of two rather than in threes or fours. Many of you will also be living on Lenox Road.\ On Tuesday night, a statement was handed out by various students. It read: ' .. On Ap.ril 20, Suzanne Oow1ing 1 Directpr of Housing, stated in a letter to Jhe campus com,munity that 'the bou~Jing . to end freshman housing on that seniors were given first seniors and one junior, the three prQposal for,l977-78 will not be 'Lenox Road was not well known ch<Jice of rooms. and then a students presented. the implemented in September of and better publicized. specific _amount of living areas irreg1.1larities in the Honors 1~77.1 feel that any action at this . were set aside for fresbJllen. change. Specifically, it was noted tiou; would not be in the best Suzanne Dowling stressed that Dowling stated that the .that there w;;u an impropriety in interest of Union.'· She also noted the housing proposal and the dormitory distribution of notification of the Class of 1971 ~t 4 AU housing arrangements .present lottery sjtuation are. two freshm.en and upperclassmen was of the change, and in the , will continqe as they now exist.'· $Cpatate factors. She said thal it about the same a$ last year. and impl<;mentation of the chan~. . \Today Tue$d~Jy, May 10, · was ll c:ollca~e plan for over a year that the only· differen~ w.as due ·ney cited the fact thQ.t there w~ Sutanaie Dtiw'fing releas~d to: m()v~f ·all· fre!lbmcn ··bq'Q~(qg to~ incointng.fteshtfien·liol\f!mg no change made-' in the eataiQglle ailothet.. !ltategi~~l~to .file- \:a!Ji~U$ -:down..eaQ1.P~s~·'· . . . . . · ~~ilnge, ·She :Sttessed tbat :>that - - (f th S t r. d t d \ded eomilti).Uty• ·Ttijs lime she ~a ~A T-he housing director explained- decisi~h would ·not &e iutered. JPl t.::.t~:C.e ;: P: . 3 ec 1 · --d~i$ion to eliminate freshtneti ·· - from l..el\ox &oa:d ••• • has created a . situation whereby 'there •.. are virtually no full suites available. So most of you will be living in doubles •. We suggest that you anive in .sroups of two rather tilan in threes. or fours. Many of you wi.U also be living on lenox Road.' . \Ms. Dowling changed the rllles of . the housing selection process in mid-stream. Oean S!llith $aid today, 'I'll leave it absolutely up to her.' Smith and Dowling will discuss tbe anangements but all odds are against changing this infamous decision. - Most freshmen who have been at this school for one wllole ye11r will bave little -or no choice as to their housing urangem.ents for next year. \The ·question is no longer a matter of whether or not to have all freshman dorms. But rather the illegitimate manner in which the housing office is attempting to · p~ll off their schemes. Does student opinion mean anything? \Do something ~ go see S:uzanne Dowling or Dean Mark Smith tomorrow before it is too late. Boycott the remainder of the lottery if they don'f rescind their decision,\ Reached at home Tuesday night, Dean of Students •. Mark Smith stated that he may consult tb.e Housing Director on the situation, but he said that Jhe decision ,to implement the housing system was Dowling's and that he would not intervene. He added that he did not feel that the present system refl~cts a cbange in mid-stream. Smith stated that the choice to move freshmen down<ampus wasmade approximtely 9ne and a half years a~o, but that it could not have been implemented with the squatter's rights provision • :Dean Smith commented that it was unfortunate that the decision Students Awarded Honors Last Saturday, Union College awarded a wide array of prizes totalling more than $10,006 to its most worthy students. Many parents were present to enjoy the ·ceremonies which took place in Library Plaza. Amongst the most coveted prizea given by the college are the · Bailey Cup, given to the senior \who has rendered the most outstanding service in any field to the college.'' This year's Bailey Cup winner was given to Jim . Trump, President of the Student Forum. Trump's activities during his career at Union have been varied ranging from the Presidency of Forum, Condu~ Ombudsman Commit~. Athletic Committee, to mernber of the Vanity . Fo'OtbaU team. Next year, Jim plans to attend George Washington Law School. Tbe Joseph Dagget Prize, given to a senior of \outstanding character and conduct without regard to scholarship, •• was. award!:d 'to Glenn Wolfson. Amongst Glenn~s activities were AU-College Senator, Musical Director of the Apple Tree and The Fantastlcks, Planning, Priorities Committee, Glee Club. and Gatesman. The Horatio G. Warner Prize for the student with the highest scholasttc standing wbBe maintaining high personal character was shared by Jack Pitoey and Brian Dearing. Mr. Pitney will work towards his doctorate in Poly Sci. at Yale while Mr. Dearing will work for an M.B.A. at Union. The George . H. Catlin l'riie. given to the student who shows the most promise in the field of coUege teacbing. was given to John K. Knudsen. Knudsen will be attending Princeton to earn his Do;ctorate m History. Prizes are awarded by the faculty, without student input. The plethora of priZes ranges ft:om larse sums of money to engraved Union mugs. It should be noted that despite the tift in the Administration, no signs Were evident during the ceremony. However;. :four .students who have been leaders in opposition to the Presidency of Thomas Bonner were given awards. Trump, Wolfson, Andy Koblenz, winner of the Hesson Prize (given to a student showing promise to enter the field of L.w), and Matt Brief, winner of an award for Meritorius Service, have all been outspoken critics of President Bonner. Concotdy wishes to congratulate all Prize winners. We need more like you! Administrators at Prize Day podium

'' • ¥ I { .',! : l I ~ I Profile of '81 Parents at Union last weekend Amidst many false rumors, the Union College Admissions Office has recently released a partial overview of the incoming Class of 1981. The figures reflect the most up-to.date informatiQn available from received student deposits. According to admissions director Jay Shupe •. the present class size for entering freshmen stands at about · 450. The projected goal is 500 students. Shupe stressed that the remaining 50 spots will be filled by wait- listed students who are being contacted at the present time. Shupe stated that he was not certain how far the admissions office would have to g() into the waiting list to fill the class since deposits are not due until Parents Weekend Seen as Success Now that all the parents, Saturday was marked by grandparents, brothers, sisters, 1 sunshine and mild temperatures, dogs, etc. have left Union and yielding a busy day for those who things have reverted back to semi- . wished to take part. Highlights normality, it's time to sit down included tbe Prize Day ceremony and look back on this past . of the morning, with top awards , weekend. going to Jim Trump, · Brian · Parent's Weekend· officially ran Dearing, Jack Pitney, Glenn I from Friday evening May 5th Wolfson and John Knudson, as through Sunday May 7th, a· well as a barbeque and auction· weekend blessed by what would sponsored by the Day Care be considered great weather for Center. The afternoon offered • springtime in Schenectady. The 1 among other things a variety of sunshine was especially sporting events. the wall$ and ceiling to suclt an· with events primarily concerned extent that many people could with eating, Chapel Services and not understand spoken a relaxing organ recital by Hugh announcements nor recognize Allen Wilson in Memorial normally familiar songs. As a Chapel. result of this, many in the · All things considered, the audience left the show early weekend appeared to· be quite a seeking the comparative serenity !r.Uccess from the initial of the Pub. registration Friday through lunch Sunday was less of .a day for on Sunday. As long as the planned activities and more of a weather· _in Schenectady is nice, time for general relaxing and .we all enjoy it since Parent's getting things settled once again. · Weekends in the rain are even less It proved to· be a low key day bearable than those in the sun. Monday. He emphasized that the office had not exhausted much of the wait..:list at this time. Approximately 70 transfer stl,ldents will be accepted as part of the 1981, admissions. Shupe said that the office could admit over 100 qualified transfer students if necessary. He said that such a move would be unlikely. The academic breakdown of the Clas$ of t 981 reflects an increase .in SAT verbal scores: Class of 1980 117 siudents with 600-700 15 students with above 700 Class of 1981 136 students with 600-700 28 students witlt above -;oo Admissions director Shupe commented that he was very pleased with the academic distribution of those students Who have. decided· to attend 'lJ nion. Ill addition, the Class of 1981 reflects a wider geographical representation. The class will include , students from Hawaii, California, Mexico and Texas, for example. Finally, Shupe stated that a rough estimate shows a 1.8 to 1 ratio of male to female students for next year's freshman class. These figures could change depending on the remaining 50 slots that have yet to be filled.' The new 6-year medical program accounted for 7 students with a VSAT of above 700. Final statistics on the program .are not yet _available. appreciated by the upperclassmen who recall the· ·torrential · rainstonns of Parent's Weekend '76. The festivities kicked off with; the Walter C. Baker Lecture entitled .. Visits With Artists In' Europe,\ given by art historian and author John Rewald. The two highlights of the evening . apparently were the special Friday Night Cabaret starring. Adam Frey, Joe Zollner, Nancy Leventhal and Emceed by Matt • Brief, along with the Men's Glee Club concert in corijunction with · the women of Wheaton College. This concert was very similar to · those that these groups will be perfonning during their fifteen day tour of Venezuela in June. In addition, the Jazz Ensemble gave an informal dance in the Rink. ln a single afternoon, the Dutchmen racked up victories T against Middlebury in baseball, . a X the Cadets of West Point in rugby, and Hamilton College in I Comm. Now Funding ISA· both varsity and J. V. lacrosse. As usual, the activities for the evening centered around the by ALISON JAMESON annual Big Band style concert. Past Parent's Weekends have brought the likes of Count Basie and Benny Goodman with this year's version in the form of Buddy Rich and his Killer Force. Unfortunately, the concert was not as enjoyable as one would have hoped. The style of music played by the \Killer Force\ (overpowering brass and percussion} did not complement the acoustics of Achilles Rink. very well. The sounds echoed off The five members of the Audit Committee. Alan Rutkin, Stan Geberer, Lauri Brecher, Jeff Forman, and Peter Shore have been meeting with representatives of clubs and organizations on campus to determine how much funding they will receive for their activities nex.t year. The Audit Committee (or Tax Committee) has $145,000 to allocate to about 45 different groups. The $145,000 comes from the $75 Student Looking to Future I -How many foreign students l general. and the atmosphere of : which will play disco music. 1'o are there at Union'? Union college, specifically. To keep the emphasis on· - Ten? . avoid ~eP.tession among its ·internationalism we will- have at - -Wrong! There are.currently members, the .ts.A. organizes. our high class bar, international forty-two students·. in the several informal •gei togethers' drinks, the ones you always · un~ergraduate level, and about during the year, which h&:ve · wanted to· taste. To make it the· ten! in the graduate level. always been open to the enttre · unique party of the year, we. ..:- How many countries are I campus iin _spite of the : lack of' would appreciate it if everybody represented at Union? interest. The l.S.A. also offers comes as their \secret desire,\ _ - Three - Canada, China, cultural activities for the campus, meaning what they would like to Activity Fee that each student is WRUC, The Campus Voice, the billed per yeat. Sailing Club, and Big Brothers Each week th~ committee and Sisters. Clubs which do not members meet with three groups have the opportunity to meet With and review their budget requests the Audit Committee before the for 1977-78. The representatives, term ends will be authorized to who have previously submitted spend up to 15% of their present their requests in writing, make a . budget in the fall until their presentation specifying why they · funding for the year is decided need the amount they're askin~ upon. for and how they expect to spend Most of the organizations the money. Reasonable amounts requesting money are the same are worked out and at the ones as last year, but. a new conclusion of the meeting the group, the Electronic Music Club, reoresentatives are given a expects to be given some funding. tentative figure of how much they . At the eml of each year about can expect to receive. $5000 in unspent funds is usually Some groups that bave already returned to the Audit Committee. been informed about their statUs This is put into a con.tingency for next year are the Moun~banks, fund and saved. and Puerto Rico? such as international dinners,: be in the future. To make it -Wrong! There are over: speakers, movies, parties, and simpler, come in a costume twenty countries represented. If dances. The members are always. representing your ideals! If you you want to know which ones, ready to .offer what they can to · ihink this is ridiculous, then come drop in at our headquarters at the campus. Students going on , as you are; -and we will· Camegie Hall, second floor to the the \abroad programs'' have understand. We are trying to give right of WRUC studio. . contacted. some of us, and we I you a break from the simple band· The I.S.A. is one of the four have offered them what we know i and beer parties! main cultural clubs at Union. It about the countries they may be I primarily seeks to stimulate the going to. We also sugg~st to the adjustmen~ of foreign st~d~nts ~o l admissions staff that ~hey inc~ease : the Amencan way of living, m 1 the number of mtemat10nal ~-------------;·n students accepted annually, in . order to promote the college's 'Students!!! reputation internationally, and to j increase the diversity among the 1 st~dent body; Rem~mber .tb!f.t ·all c.arn- As far as our plami which pus ~ail will come to 1 remain in our agenda for this ,your college . box a_.d 1 yeat, we are having a Grande dd 1 Soiree lnternationale, (an :not your home a ress. · ·1. international evening), on !So check your box at • saturday, May 21 at the Old · \). '· .. ._~ ~t·~·,~~~t.1!f.+.l~P~l~ .• '!'\',4;~.~~ .• , 1 Chapel. Featured will be. '------------~.J \ \Earthbom a superb b.and 1 I would like. to e~press my sincere gratitude on the behalf of international S~\ldents, to all those. faculty members and. s~udents who p rovtde us .. with encouragement.. I would further like to congratulate the members for winning the prize. from the admissions ·staff for the most creative . bo.oth d.pring . the accepted candidates day. And last of all, l would lilce tQ wish the best of luck to the three seniors who have been very active members of the I.S.A., John Terros,, . , .R\ldY,: , LU;, and· . Ca~;los Castello. l.···· -~ .. ···~·, ·,··,·,•',.;:/·!~ .. L.- t.. Tax Committee Chairman, Stan ~etber~ p b As Wee• folloi in th1 .st1,1de Dear Y<J time ·colleJ frient very the joke~ pleas espe< !lope your be !1 w help wee I< somf Sche be t you P.S. mov rm out Jum 0 to SJ the wer~ thos pare and UPP' enjo com stud .u Hat Lav Apt lla1 Chi Sta1 Nat The WOI org• m Ap1 1 con me1 SUfi Ha1 pr(J Wht cha ma1 a-il sup anc tryi eve .. am pie

of fer of an for a 0 1 50 not the not the to a me new in g. CONCORD/ENS!$, Af4Y 11, 1977 Parents View Weekend by SARA SIMMONS As a result of Parents~ Weekend, letters resembling the following will soon be appear-ing in the mail baxes of many Union st1.1dents: Dear Junior, what cot~ld give a pr011d parent more S4tisfaction thai! being in con(!lct with hundreds of parents According to Mr. and· Mrs. Rubenstein, \This was tile 'most wonderful weekend we've spent in a long time. The weather was beautiful, everything was lovely.\ Mr. and Mrs. Saginario commented on the people the,y had met, 'The b 0 ys made 11s feel .comfortable as soon as we arrived. The parents were all very friendly. These young pe<Jple are tomorrow's leaders. It is reassuring to see they are always looking out for each otller.~· Rich an enthus1ast1c ovation at the conclusion of his show. SQ, if parental enthusiasm is the determining factor the11 Parents~ Weekend must be deemed a success. But what about the students? Why don't we all admit that we had just as good a time as our parents. Admit they are not as bad a,s we say they are. Admit we were just a little bit . proud of them. It's not hard to let them know. You can start like this: Dear Mam, J.t was good seeing you this weekend. I'm glad you and Dad had a nice time ... Your father and I had a lovely .time when we visited you ·at ·college this past weekend. Your friends and their families all seem very nice, Your father a~preciated the new audience for his old jokes. I'm glad the weather was so pleasant. The campus. is pretty, especially Jackson's Gardens. I !lope we didn't keep you from your stlJdies, but you seemed to be !laving a good time too. ~ Several 'parents cited Saturday nighfs concert as their· only It can be done! complaint. Feelings ran strongly We are enclosing a ·check to help you through these last few weeks. Maybe you could- use some of it for a trip to one of Schenectady's barber shops. We'll be thinking of you. Write when you get a chance. Study hard. to ,both extremes al>out Buddy Rich's performance. By ten pm many people were in the Pubwbo had been seen entering Achilles Rink· just a,short time befor~. On Concordy Recipe Corner · Love, Mom P.S. Your brother tells me he moved sour bed into the garage. rm sur.e we can work something out when you come home in June. Concordy took the bpportunity to speak to many parents during the weekend. Positive feelings were shared by the majority of those interviewed. Both freshmen parents on their first time around and seasoned parents of upperclassmen seemed to be enjoying the activities and the company of the other parents and students. This is not surprising; with a very important ·similar interest. AU of these pe()ple have Strange things ga on in the a son· or daughter who is rooms at Union College; :not the intelligent, good looking, popular, least of these is the extent to brilliant, dedicated, ;.and hard which some students will go to working who happens t(J attend avoid venturing forth at Union College. After a few mealtimes. When none of the minutes of conversation this fact options open to students - the becomes obvious. Pub, the Skellar, Hale House, not Among the most memorable even the thought of seconds at m(Jments for Mr. and Mrs. Saile West provide sufficient were the lacrosse game, a tour of motivation to go out, students are the computer center, the Marx known to perform a ritual called Brothers; classic \Duck Soup\ Cooking In the Room. Cooking and, believe it or not, brunch at facilities available to most are West dining hall. limited. In observing the the other hand, those who chose . resourcefulness of some students to remain at the concert gave Mr. it becomes obvious that the . . . expression ''Hunger is the mother of invention\ must have originated here at Union. In an effort to aid the less iimaginative among us, Concordy is initiating a new weekly cooking column. Send your favorite recipe to us at Box 1382, Union College or slip it under the door of the Concordy office on the fourth floor of Carnegie. Help the hungry on campus. Our first Recipe .of the Week is the old favorite Grilled Cheese on an Iron. Ingredients for this delicacy are as follows: 2 pieces of bread I slice of cheese butter or margarine an electric iron aluminum foil Even those of us who are not Chetn. ·majors .realize that- the rnelting · point of cheese ts relatively low. It is therefore necessary to cover the surface of the iron with aluminum foil in order that the holes (Jn the bottom do not become full of cheese. Preheat the iron for a few minutes at the .. cot·ton\ setting. Meanwhile spread butter on one side of each slice of bread. Then grasp the hot iFon by the handle, face up, and place orie slice of bread, butter side down on the aluminum foil. Add the cheese and second slice of bread. After 3- 4 minutes (try not to drop the iron) tum the sandwich over to toast the oth·er side. Warning_: keep your door locked when preparing Grilled Cheese on an Iton. Your actions may be impossible to explain to the cro:wd drawn by :the aroma .. Also, if you are using, a steam iron be 'sure to.empty the water out· of it before beginning to co(Jk with it. Terms Abroad Union students .abroad. Applications are now being received for the winter term programs in Greece, Israel, and Spain. The pr-ograms are open to all' 'students in good. standing ~regardless of major. The term abroad is comparable in cost to a term on campus; all scholarships appJy. ln case of over-enrollment, preferenc~ . will be giyen · to Se-Jjior.s., Juniors, a·~a .Union Hockey Coach Ned as orgamzmg otllilr skating Harkness and Junior Tom organizations was possibly the Lawson were awarded plaques on main reason the Skate-a-tb.<in was April 26th by the Association for so profitable,\ as explained by Handicapped and Crippled Skate-a-thon Chairman Tom Children and Adults of New York Lawson. \Perhaps the most State in conjunction with the remarkable thing is the fact that National Easter Seal Society. this man spent every minute of These awards came in light of the the seven-hour fundraiser skating; work done by tb.e two in more often than not caring for or organizing the Skate-a·thon held at least holding the . hands of in· Achilles Rink on Saturday, youngsters who were there.\ appro:ximate total is $12,000, after collecting $710.84. The top approaching the National Skate- college age skater was Mike a.-thon record of $12,400 set O'Connell coming lip with $345. during a 20-h()ur Skate-a-than. · Also deserving recognition for Over $900 in .prizes were this event is local radio station awarded for the largest amount of WWWD wh·ich broadcast a money collected by individuals in remote from the Rink a!) well as various categories. 'the top Larry McMullen who had winner was fifteen-year-old Kelly arranged food for the Skate-a- Quinn who won a video TV game thon. April 2nd. Almost 100% of the Varsity . Latin Honors Though .recently maligned and Hockey team was present at one . Contmued from P~ee 1 constantly attacked ,by many point or another durin~ the day. offiCially. The faculty rejected the members of the campus and This is as many people as were 'proposed change. through the PAB tQ the Senate as .'•binding.\ As it stands: Summa Cum Laude: 3.65 Magna Cum Laude: 3.50 Cum Laude: 3.00 As of next year, the requirements will be raised as previously proposed: Summa Cum Laude: 3.80 Magna Cum Laude: 3.60 Cum Laude: 3,35 surrounding community, Coach representing the remainder of·the The discussion centered around Harkness placed his personal school. In addition to the .plaques, questions concerning who should problems aside and went Messrs. Harkness and Lawson confirm Latin Honors. Presently, wholeheartedly in support of this · were presented with letters of the constitution delegates this charity drive. Considered by ·thanks from the children of the task to the All College Senate. many the backbone of the Skate- I Albany Therapy Center. The question was raised as to a-thon, Mr. Harkness -offered the I In total 315 people skated whether or not the faculty should support of his team, his friends during the day; however, only 20 be involved. A~~emicians sho~ld and most importantly himself of these were Unioo. students not make the dectsaons concermng trying to increase interest in the included on the Hockey team or academic .honbts. Concordiensis hopes this ·event. as members. of the two supporting Give n cons H t uti on a 1 'information will appear in the 1 I ) \ • ~,. · .. \ . ' ' .. Coach Harknes~?' influence Fraternities: Phi Delta Th.eta and constraints, a consensus ·was new. catalogue and concerned among the community attracting Delta Phi. Although some of the made that faculty ·pa~ies will be informed by the pledges, getting publicity, as well money has yet to be collected, the recommendati()ns should 1>e made reg1strar .. ' \ ~ ' l • , , ~ . '• ' ' \. \ 'f I ' ' ', , ; ~ • ,. I ;f\ t 1 ~. • I •.r• • \ II i! 'I • Jl\/ • \ ~ t' ol> ::-.·· J I ;I l • \ •\ n ) f f>.• .. lo ~ Sophomores, in that order. For the term in Athens there is no language requirement, but preference wil'l be given to those students· who have· completed a co:orse rn Classical . Gr·eek Literature, Philosophy, or History. Students will be house • in .apartments. Students s.tudyiilg in Israel will live on a kibbutz and all participants are required to have completed at least one term or the equivalent of Modern Hebrew. The Term Abroad in Seville for the coming winter is divided into two levels. Track One is for students who will have completed Spanish 133 (offered Fall Term). Track Two requires the completion of Spanish 10 (also offered in the fall) or the equivalent. Students will live in private homes. , In each instance, participants take three courses, the contents of which depend on the area involved. The courses count toward fulfillment of the new General Education distribution requirements. Applications are due by May . 25. The preliminary deposit of $100 will not he required until next October. For further information, see Professor Klemm or Sandy Adams, Humanities Building 211. Students interested in traveling to Israel should see Professor Berk : in Social ScienceS: B.uil<ling. _ . LUKE'S SUPERMARKET ·- -• 830 EASTERN AVE. 8 AM - 10 PM 7 DAYS Full line of deli., cold beer a11d soda, produ~e 11nd grocery.

. ' • \ p • ' I ' I . Page 4- CONCORDIEN.SJS. May 11, l9Tl. Elections 1977' Jr. Trustee input and suggestions, as well as criticisms. If l miss anyone, I live · in 427 South, and my phone . number is 370.,6412. Thank you. John Tydings Brien O'Toole The Junior Trustee is one of In the last year the Union the most important student College community has. witnessed n:presentative posts. By sitting on the virtual dissolution . of its ~ ; . the Board of Trustees, he is a educational leadership. Dr. voting member on every major Andy Sandler Sonner's pronouncements of decision and privy to information envisioned grandeur for this concerning the entire college Fellow Students, institution now serve only to community. He must be aware of I am asking for your vote next remind us just how dismal the campus -sentiment and Tuesday for the position of road we now travel really is. And respectively keep them informed. Junior Trustee. yet in -many respects Union is still The trustee's primary concerns Why vote? Vote because Union very much a community: despite must be with the college; its College is moving into a crucial itself perhaps, and somewhat reputation, image, and future. period in its development. We as frayed, but with the undeniable At this moment, the college's 1 a campus community have the potential for ed.ucational reputation has been hurt by opportunity and the responsibility . momentum. scandalous activities and many to determine the future direction And so we face a challenge. But types of immoral violations. The of the college. The Board of it is a challenge that extends college's academic reputation has i Trustees is the highest decision beyond the simple negation of been hurt by these transgressions, I making body of the College. We one man's mistaken conception of yet nothing has been done. People as students can have significant what Union is and ought to responsible for these violations 1 input in the decisions to be made become. It is not enough we reject must be made accountable, through our representation on the the president's overtures to the because any individual who Board of Trustees. image of the university, we must caus.es a degradation of the Why vote for me? Vote for me say why' it is important to be an college's reputation must p.ot be if you're tired' of seeing student institution of liberal learning and allowed to represent th,e school representatives vote against the then what that entails. ln fact, wei any further. consensus of the students. As are required to define clearly, One area where this has really Trustee I will serve as a spokes- coherently, and meaningfully hurt us is in the admissions person of the views of the student whai the correct aims and program. Without a respectable body regardless of whether these conception of this institution applicant pool, what can one views coincide with my personl!.l should be. expect of Union's future'? By ' views. Will the other candidates It is only in this way that Union implementing a more vigorous do so'? Ask them! can own up to its philosophic academic recruiting program, we Over the course of the next responsibility and economic can attract top students who are 1 week I will be around to talk to imperative to institutionalize alienated by huge, impersonal · you. 1 want to know how you feel educational vigor. And only universities. Because of the · about the various issues having done this, to cop one of present situation, however, our , confronting the College. I can't Dr. Bonner's only Iiow ironic enrollment rate is dropping below promise you that if I'm elected phrases, can we ••resume progress 301% of acceptances, which is the President Bonner will or will not 1 toward greatness and academic critical level. Something must be be back next year nor can I distinction in higher education.\ done to bring this trend around. promise you that Hockey will or Only by continued and One-personal goal is to see this will not go Division I. I can, enthusiastic efforts to develop the college come up with a complete , however, promise you that if you arts, women's ·sports, and the and specific declaration of its elect me, you as an individual will intellectual ambience of this goals and e ducat ion a 1 over the course of the next two community can Union make philosophies. By coming out and years Qften have the opportunity . claim to provide, for those stating exactly how we stand, the to discuss with me how you feel engaged in learning here, problems of uncertainty and about these and other issues. I opportunities that tnlly command administrative bending of rules can also promise that if your the time, money, and effort that will not occur. At, this moment . views coincide with the views of one spends going through this Union is at a crossn;tads where we · the majority of the student body place. can choose to let the college 'I then I wiU push them and vote for; It is for the trustee to articulate remain stagnated with no them. and work to actualize these creativity or excitement with its 1 The student body doesn't need' positive necessities for Union. 11 is future in doubt, or we can choose a .. trustee.\ The student body, for that person to orchestrate the some new leadership which will needs a representative of the flow of information from students restore Union's prestige and good: student body on the Board of. to the board (as well as the Senate name. · Trustees and in the All-College and the Student Forum) and to I will be coming around to the i Senate. Please allow me that. work to build informed student dormitories and fraternities to opportunity. Vote for Andy participation on community discuss these and any other issues .. Sandler for Junior Trustee. decisions. I greatly value other people's · Thank you. · If Union wants. a11 identity and Andy Sandler i 'i . ' ' wants to be identified it . niust commit itself spiritually ·~ and materially to a concrete and workable set of educational aims. Brien R. O'Toole Bill Jenkins My name is Bill Jenkins; I am running for Junior Trustee· and here is what l think: - All-freshmen dorms are strictly no go. - It is time to clear the air concerning the B.S.A. Let's find out wliat is happening. -An I.F.C. Representative to the Forum is in line. Fraternity's opinions count too. -The Trustees need student input from more than one section of campus. -The I.E.F. is great. - A student vote on the Committee on Faculty is what the tenure process needs. - The trustees owe us more than we have been told so far. - Dean Smith must not be railroaded out of here as a faculty scapegoat. - The obvious is obvious. We need an Arts facility and an . Intramural facility as soon as possible. - No \honors dorms\ but, the Steinmetz curriculum next year. -The l.A.M. Department better explain to us - \what the hell's going on.\ The programs keep coming and coming but, the master plan remains hidden. - A news and candy stand in Oimegie~s l()bby is what I want. - May 17th is Election Day. - The Rink is ours and not Schenectady's. - You may find it hard to remember who my competitors are - since no signs of theirs will be found. This is not because they didn•t put them up. It is because I have hired five guys in rubber suits t<> ~'Bum-em-all\ on the spot as they comb the campus in search of enemy posters. Their blow torches are inexhaustible. - The meetings between · you . and me will continu~, this . statement will not. Thank ~you. · Bill Jenkins The cry of ineffectiveness of Yet with these small battles (intellectually, athletically) as well student government and the cry won the Union College as scholastically. The football of student apathy are no longer Community still faces many . player, the •studier,' as well as the valid. We have witnessed this year problems. The achievements by Mountebanks performer are the endorsement of the IEF our intercollegiate sports, our needed at Union College. But our (Internal Education Foundation), sciences and engineering, as well top priority and of foremost a revision of the Comp. Ed. as our social sciences are importance if Union should system (General Education recognized but Union College succeed is education. The Program) and an increase of, needs much more. Our arts, victories at the All College Senate student applications for, humanities and library are in dire meetings are a start and we have a committees that total .roughly· need of improvement. the lot of work ahead. Marty Dolan Fellow students: My name is Marty Dolan and rm runniqg for the position of Student Tmsree. The problems that presently beset the campus are twofold: first, the people who have been elected in recent years are far from, I feel, REPRESENT ATlVE of the community they are supposed to be rep1·esenting; and second, once elected, to make a bad situation even worse, theirs has been only nominal communication to and from the community they represent. This leads to, first, poor judgements by these representatives, and because of this, secondly, poor voting records on the major campus issues. Therefore, I feel it is necessary to elect someone to the position of Student Trustee, where he/ she will be entrusted with the respon- sibility of representing the student bOdy, who is not only involved and aware of campus activities, btU who is easily found, responsive, and willing to work with every person who has a worthwhile idea and brings his views to the Trustee. This person must also have the abiiity to listen, bargain, and ad vance ideas on the Board of Trustees, so the importance .of electing someone involved in campus life is crucial. Specifically, the Administrative handling of issues such as the Arts program, Comp Eds, and, of course, hockey, has been disgraceful. A Division 1 hockey team can work at this campus - the present 'scandals' are unnecessary and could be easily av·oided with improved communication and responsiveness of representation. The Arts program is similar, as is the Comp Ed situation, in this ~spect. I feel that I can serve the campus community due to my present involvement and work on campus life. Please vote f9r these qualities on May 17th. Thank you very much. Marty Dolan SENIORS: Order your· '77 Union Book now in the ~Student Adil'ities Office. The Book will eost SS.OO for Seniors and $8.00 for all ot~~rs. P.A.C.E. EXAM 450. For the first time the' admissions program must seek As Vice-President this year I students have utilized their the more diverse student; not just have fought hard for changes. positions on the All College the student who will be able to. Please give me the opportunity to Senate and vo~e? for an~ I attain high ~cademic honors but continue tbis struggle in the role ~emanded recogmtton of. tltetr I· one ~ho Wlll contribute to the of President. Thank you. The P.A.C.E. Exam will be given on Saturday, May 21~ 1977 from 8:30 a.m. to 2:30 p.m. v._ . . . . .. .. . -· 'ldeas: ' · - ... ' • '' ·· \ • • • · . ·S-c·,h•o el .. i: n ~ othoe·r~ • ways · n · •· J :, •• 1-o ·• r. ·oMicliael' -Ganz \ ' - p u SJ of l the afte1 que! am per~ resu app: cone opit: The ther tion COOl fact' invc rec' cha1 the in hin< exis min de VI gov• CaDI T tha1 ree~: met DUll be it ligh issu cal~ CUI im~ anc wh; spe• COil tha exp offi bO( reg. ad' whl rna rna soL asy 1 fee• C04 ad1 pre me me

• md of :ms ~us rho ars e I, the to nee ion nly md 1ey rst, ese of :ing pus ary :ion she on- lent ved :ies, nd, ork s a his ·son to leas the :one ~ial. ltive the l, of •een *ey s- are iSily ved il.nd tion. as is this the my k on these :you 1olan 77 he he or all be 977 CONCOR,DIENSIS, May 11, 1977 ·Elections 1977 Pre·sldent Continued • ptcture unavailable J. Bruce Pulliam Spring after spring; the stands of hopeful candidates rest upon the issue of student apathy. Year after year, fully bewildered, 1 question, \Apathetic? But I care; l am concerned.\ I feel that the perplexity of this condition has resulted from a lack of an apparent procedure for the concerned student to express his opinion on school related issues. The urgency of the matter, therefore, exists in -communica- tion, and the actuai dispute is consequentially treate<,l unsatis- factorally. The explosive issues involving NESCAC and, more recently, proposed housing changes support my belief that the average student is concerned in school affairs, yet this hindering lack of communication exists. It is with this problem in mind that I intend to base the development of a stronger student government as well as my candidacy for its pre&idency. The attractiveness of my pbm is that it coincides perfectly with our recently restructured govern- mental system characterized by its numerous committees: the belief being that many hands can lighten the load. The current issues range from athletics, the calendar, housing, tenure to curriculum, departmental improvement, allocation of funds, and the social committee; whatever the issue, there are specific committees to adrriinister concentrated attention. I believe that it is reasonable and logical to expect that these appointed officials will present the student body with written alternatives in regard, to each issue stating the advantages and disadvantages which their extended analyses may have uncovered. Only then may the concerned student have a solid basis for decision and an asylum from the title of apathy. The _key to information and feedback resides in the eJtpected cooperation with resident advisors, fraternity and sorority presidents, as well as the student media. My vote at - senate meetings is aimed at representing 'the popular opinion of toe entire student body. The potential is there. Together, we can make it reality! Sincerely, J. Bruc:e Pulliam (Weasel) Fellow Students: This is · to announce my candidacy for Student Body President arid to ask for your support. When l came to Union three years ago3 it was with the hope that my experiences would, like a lens, focus various .problems and approaches to their solutions. Unfortunately, Union has -become a spectacle of quite anoth.er kind. Daily conversations are consumed by gossip concerning charges of administrative wrongdoing. As students our opportunity to engage in academic debate has been overshadowed by administrative actions of a dubious, albeit well intended, nature. Student government has not risen to this . occasion: Perhaps this stems from the fact that we . are not as informed as we should be. Student leadership must mobilize student awareness; this has not been the case. The result has been a confused college community. The Student Constitution once dictated that each student be sent a copy of rertain committee meeting minutes. Apparently this procedure was abandoned. As President of the Student Body I would attempt to reimplement this procedure in the hopes of enhancing student awareness. By utilizing RA's to inform on- campus students of Committee occurrences, I would further eilliven student response. WRUC could also be utilized as a forum for structured editorial comment. If an etfort is strongly and sensitively niade, it may be possible tore-direct discourse into more productive channels, such as curricular expansion, and new student activities. Our time here is limited; I want it to be of a higher quality than it has been. Now is not a time for lack of action and empty speech. Let liS inform all members of our Not only does the position of Forum Vice-President include a seat o~ the aU-college .Senate with stand-in responsibility for the President of the Forum, but and most importantly, the VP serves as chairperson of the Committee op. Committees {CoC). The issues of this .campaign revolve around this last responsibility. community that 'if th~ charsed with daily campus administration ~ unable to set a positive ·inteUeetual and moral tone, we will do it ourselves. Thanks, and I r~spectfully ask for your vote.· . Joel Sherman Da,ve Schmertz Student government at Union College is, for all practical purposes, non-existent, and blame has been placed upon the students rather than on their governing bodies. It is my opinion however, that Union students are not apathetic but are instead turned off by a closed student government which is unresponsive to student opinion. Lack of student support is resultant from student officials' failure to make a concerted effort to gain student input. A total breakdown in communications between students and their representatives has created . this situation where students are iso!ated from government involvement, and constructive action is virtually impossible. I believe that Union students deeply want the chance to get involved in campus decision- making. The Student Forum's failure to communicate with the students, however, has prevented this chance. Be.fore any accom.plishments can be engineered, the foundations, for student input mus.t be constructed. We need communi- cation; in the forms of high- visibility Forum meetings, open hearings on major campus issues (like housing), and lastly, representatives willing to reach out to the student body for opinions and advice. Communi- cation is the essential foundation for effective student government. But increasing communication between students and representa- tives is not enough. A communi- cation base must also. be established between students and administrators. Otherwise (as in the case of the. hoUsing proposal) administrators will continue to formulate policies which affect information about committee progress while encouraging students to get involved with college activities. These include tile .major committees like Educational Policy and Social and the minor on~s like Security and Library. These committees have been instrumental in the past few years in channeling student involvement 'into Worthwhile The CoC coordinates the endeavors. The new Gen. Ed. functioning of all student proposal, for example, was involved committees. This five formulated with student input • ,- \-••;T person group is responsible for from the EPC. · ..... , B '· ' •··~ .·· appointing new members to fill Over 400 ,, applications were · · .: .~,! !.' .'.!> lft .... , ... l, .... •.• ·'·' -~ -~-·. • ~.IJitnit~e;yacancies and proVide .. :~~jved. thi~y,ear fo.r co.m.mit~s. the student . body .but ir1clude little input from students themselves. The FoJ;Um can be a perfect intermediary for expressing student opmwn to the administrators. All that is needed is representatives willing to initiate the effort . Many students have lost hope ·for effective student government. .Last year I did too. But I have decided that everything deserves one more chance. Student government CAN have meaning once again. If you choose to vote for me on May 17th, and I am elected, I will always strive to re- involve the students in their government. I do not have all the answers, but I do have the belief that students, if given the opportunity, will participate in government. Communication, I hope, will be ignited, once again, at Union College. David Schmertz Mitchell Brand FeUow Students: . · My name is Mitchell Brand and I am a candidate for the office of student bC\dy president. I feel that in previous years the student body has been well represented by the student government. This year, however, I have been disappointed with their performance and feel that new leadership is necessary in order (or change to occur. This year's student senate was faced with many major problems which required strong leadership by its officers. Arts, Administration, Comprehensive Education, Union 1-lockey, and the reconstruction of the N ott Memorial highlighted this year's student forum meetings. These problems still exist and a' new communication is needed among the students, the student forum, and the trustees.· The position of presidency involves the responsi- bility of communication between these three networks. I ·believe that I can handle the responsibility of conveying the student's opinions through the proper channels while obtaining positive results. Yet, the selection process has been riddled with patnmage. Students who are qualified, interested and especially those who have never been involved should be given a chance for co*mmittee involvement. Fresh· men and Fraternity I Sorority people should be given the opportunity to channel their involvement into the committee structure. Elitism is promulgated by those who want to perpetrate elitism. I have served on the CoC and understand its function and responsibility , to ens1,1re com- mittees work\ smoothly . .a.nd PageS In the past few weeks, the housing issue has illustrated a decrease in student apathy and an increase in student awareness; this campus community can have a voice in the making of administrative policy. I am asking students to take an active part in determining next year's student government by voting for the candidate of their choice on May 17. Regardless of the outcome of these elections I hope that next year's student government can improve communication throughout the campus community. Manuel Del Fuego Hi! My name is Manuel Tierra del Fuego. There's been a lot of talk lately about what this college needs most. A new Arts building? An improved national reputation? A reofganization of the CompEd system?· An expanded library? Well, I'll tell you what it needs most. Anarchy. That's right, anarchy. There's nothing wrong with this college that a little chaos wouldn't cure. As candidate for President on the Union College Liberation Army (UCLA} ticket, I promise you that, if elected, I'll have this campus in a state of utter confusion within a week of my inauguration. Decision-making will be taken out of the hands of bureaucratic administrators, senile trustees, apathetic students, and tenure-conscious faculty and given to someone with TR- 'E insight and determination - me. Union College is going down the tubes; you know that as well as I do. Everybody complains about the same old things, but nobody does anything. I can't promise that I'll solve all of this school's problems, but at least ru give you something new to complain about. You don•t have to vote for me. Of course, you don't have to wake up the morning after the election, either. Think about it. effectively. The role of student Senator and Forum member should not be neglected. The Forum realized too late that it has to work together as a Senate voting block. When it splinters, it is lost amongst the stronger Faculty I Administration voices. A student Senator must be responsive and accountable to the students he represents. l feel I can listen to issues, all sides and arrive at \best\ solutions to them. Benjamin Grel'n > ~-l·t\' ..... ,.~'i 1\}· ~:o.\1')-\ \' • • ... ........ l •

Page6 CONCORDIENS!S, May 11,1977 Elections Continued John Speer My name is John Speer and I am running for student body Vice-President. Rather than stating my positions on specific issues, l prefer to explain in a general sense why I feel I should be elected. It is my contention that our present student representatives are on the whole a rather elitist,· undiverse group of individuals with regard to reflecting the overall sentiment of the student body. That i!i nqt to say that these individuals are incompetent or lax in fulfilling their responsibilities. Instead 1 Jr. Rep. ·.~ ''l~' ' ·( Murray Levison Note: due to space limitations, this is an abridged version of my would argue that their viewpoints are limited as they represent only an elite group of Union students. It is time campus politics was open to tlte entire student body and not conducted for only a small minority. The .pledge I make to my fellow students is rather basic. If elected I will do everything possible to be a voice for the student body. It is impossible to always reflect the majority opinion on every issue hut it will be my goal to communicate with you. on everything I· do. Communicatioq has obviously been lacking on many salient issues at Union. During the winter term, a survey, run by ail independent student, polled the opinions of the student ·body on the question of Division 1/NESCAC. The results (which represented over 11'00 responses) were surprising and were in direct conflict with what many of our student representatives were voicing as the students' opinions. During my three years at Union, I have seen a fragile sense of community shattered. The campus is at best polarized and in the worst instances open hostility exists between various groups and individuals. Presentlv. Union statement. As a member of this year's All- College Senate, as an interested member of the Union College community, and as a candidate for Junior Class Representative, I am amazed by some of the events that have happened, and by others that have not happened, at Union College this year. First of all, _ there has been much discussion about whether certain programs belong or don't belong at a small, LIBERAL ARTS College, as Union certainly is. Much of this discussion is meaningless unless the members of the Campus community decide on a clear-cut and· well-defined philosophy for the school to follow. Unless we know where we stands at the ctosstoads. What happens in the near future might well determine Whether Union becomes a great institution or falters to become just mediol<re. The college has a proud past and it can have a proud future if each one .of us pulls together and becomes involved. in. the decision- making process. On May 17, I would ask th~t you consider your votes carefully. lf you choose to vote for me for vice-president,. I will be sincere ·in trying to fulfill all that I have said. Thank you. Jo·Ann Messina Union, presently has one major problem - lack of leadership and are going, or where we want to go, we cannot effectively determine how to get there. Under no circumstances should Union College be forced to take a certain path due te previously taken actions. This is rny primary goal: to force the question of Union's future philosophy. Only then can the governance structures on campus do their jobs .effectively, without worrying about a reversal in policy in the near futur.e that wili destroy their work. My second goal is to develop stronger ties between not only the faculty and myself, but also between the faculty and all students. In this way the College thus direction! Yes, we have :3 hockey controversy,. yes, we have dissatisfaction in the faculty, yes, we have · incompetency in the administration but all these problems center aro11nd a lack of I leadership in the administration and the student bQdy,. and ~n only be cor.rected by competenc;y in both! Le~.dership at Union College is in the process of being reviewed: the administration by- the Trustees, the !it1,ldent bo<Jy through the vote on May 17th.. We are presently entering into a transitional ,phase 'in Union's life and thus a. time for constructive innovation. This is a time for strong student leaders who will fight for the gQals ·of the student body .. Although this has been a difficult year for lJ nion, many positive developments have emerged. The General 'Education proposal presented to replace our Comprehensive Education System is a much needed improvement and a step toward making Union a true Liberal Atts school. Tlte proposal passed for funding of the Internal Edu.cation Foundation is an innovation which is unique for an undergraduate school and one which shows the imagination and could develop a stronger sense of \community with · everyone pulling for the same goal: to see Union College survive in the future, and to do so respectably. ingenuiiy of our student b9dy. As Vice-President l hope to streamline the ·committee ~ystem ,to be the most effective and efficient ,possible. Let~s not let the destructive problems of Union overpower the strengths. There are controversies brewing at Union yet this could be a time when great impro¥ements could be achieved. Progress is made, in the face of adversity. Students do not have. a major input in the review of the admini!ltration, but we do have an input if!tO the governiqg structure of the . school through the committee system. Help me to make this the most pciwerful input into the government of Union Colle~e. )o-Ann Messina Tll~e Speakers f()rum· ,presents 'The Best of Candid' Camera', an evening with: Allen Funt. On. Wednesd~tY · . May 18 at 8:30 .p.m.. in . Memorial Chapel Mr. Funt will give a short ledure and film presentation. The cost will . be $.75 for Union College st\'dents and faculty. For QOD• Union College persons the cost · will be $1.50~ Come and see the best of candid camera. administrators at this school are certainly appalling. How can the President of this college condone some of the things that have ·happened this ye_ar? The President has shown that he does condone unethical practices, and that he will .not listen to some segments of this campus as seriously as he will listen to other segments. Is our President a respected leader of this College? I seriously doubt it. for these and other reasons, I must call for the President's immediate resignation, so that the College can get itself back together, and work towards the future, ethically and intelligently. My third goal is to develop -procedures and programs that can be used to attract top students to Union. Union must allocate more money · for recruttmg and publications. The Alumni must be encouraged to look in their communities for top students. And most importantly, an organization should be formed to d'o recruiting over vacations and during the school year. l have done preliminary work along this line,. and I will continue. A vote for Murray Levison will guarantee you an honest attempt Lastly, the actions of various to implement my goals. Soph. Rep.--------------__,-----==--_____,---~~~ Mike Arato Fellow Freshmen, It is difficult to go more than a day at U ilion, or read more than a page of Concordy without having the word \apathy\ come .up. Comments are constantly being made concerning apathetic students · who just don't get involved or care. With 200 people applying for 20 Gatesman positions,- RA, OA and committee applications reaching record numbers, and with the tremendous number of students running for office, I don't see how anyone could believe this. The energy and the and learn. By working together created. These people' all have the desire to make improvements at through The Student Forum we same ideas and views and they Union is there; the problem lies in can reach these goals. aren~t usually the feelings of the our government's ability to unify Michael Arato majority of the student body. An this energy and get results. example of this is the survey Having had the opportunity to r·~ · concerning Division I hockey and serVe as President of my class for our involvement in NESCAC. It four yeabrs in Hf ighh ScAho 11 olCan 11 d as . . showed that a majority of a mein er o. t e o ege students wanted to leave Senate Library Committee this NESCAC and enter Division I in year, I have come to recognize hockey. Although this was the this as one of the major problems opinion of the majority of in Student Government My students, it was never represented major goal, if elected to The in the student senate. Student Forum, would be to try A larger cross-section of the to organize our efforts by first student body should be making sure that we, as your represented in our government. If representatives, were awa~;e of we can accomplish this, we can how you felt, and then working stop the apathy that has been through. the All College Senate to created and unify the student ~Eric Levine turn our ideas into improvements body. We can start accomplishing at Union. things that will.benefit the entire When running for an elected This is a time of great change at student body rather than just a office a candidate should not be Union, Possible expansion of oui tl . allowed to deal with one issue at sports programs and arts John Hogan ew. the exclusion of others. Some programs; as we'll· as the To state my views concisely and candidates seem to feel that they controversy over further My na:me).s Jqhn Hogan and I with no double talk, I stand fi>r a can base their campaigns on a expanding the Union University am running {or the office of student government that is. truly single topic. As a. school concept are all major .proposals sophomore ciass,:representative to representative. I have enough representative a person should be that could entirely reshape the student' senafe .. I feel that this confidence in the intelligence of well versed on all subjects, Union's role as a \small liberal sclrool should halve new voices in the student body to make their whether it be academics or arts college.'' While we may the student government. For view~ heard,at the stl;ldent sen~te athletics. sometimes disagree on some of years we. have had the same meetmgs. When I dtsagre~' with At the beginning of the year t~$~ 11 a,nd,oth!fr, ~pecif~c is.sp~~. ,we, peopte . f!.tniling Q.U!, s(fl)ool a~~ 1 , th~ 1 st~~ent .co~nse~sus, .. ~ ,wtll say, , t~~t;e. ~ere, ~l!lns ,to. est~~li,sb a all share the same goal..... t6. I flOW' ~., arc- TeltliZtJtg' l!:he·•grtat ~o. but 1 W'ttl never ititsrepresent fine Arts departmeitt. As the year make Union a better place to live apathy that this situation has the students. moved along the arts began to - s take SOm( dra\ :shou to 1 fa cui - Acac only impr If find In s spor Arto· abse Wo11 opp< invo AI WO!I ant colle argu prog reco Sm.a Col~ have alon reco Lafa thei prof nati1 e..ve~ NE~ issm u a unre hind and A deci• guid the they the11 The repr Sop A gov( role The Coil stud fa ell pro1 that voti false my A pre: tha1 pet: 1 qua lea acq syst the inv• my of Thi Fn: Pre Bei has has go pre . ~ol

he ne Is I t's he ck he ly. pt be a or year a year to C,ONCORDIENSIS, May 11, 1977 Page7 '~ '' . ' Elections Continued '. Soph. Rep. Continued take a back seat. This is something that our school would draw tremendous benefits from. It : should be brought up front again to be discussed by st1,1dents, faculty, and administration. · Academics, however, is not the only thing that should he impr(:lVed. If one were to look, they would find a lack of women's athletics. In some cases where there. is a sport, the coaching ,is inferior. Another travesty is the complete absence of ladies' intramurals. Women should have the same opportunity as men to get involved. in athletics. Along with the improvement in wmnen's athletics there should be an upgrading in the men's inter- collegiate sports program. The argument of an improved sports program hurting our academic record is not necessarily true. Small schools like Hob.art, Colgate; Lehigh, and Lafayette have top-notch athletic programs along with outstanding academic records. Colgate, Lehigh, and Lafayette have all placed some of their student..oathletes in professional· sports and Hobart is nationally ranked in lacrosse ~very year. It is time to leave NESCAC and give tbe hockey issue some more thought. Union becoming a University in a small college setting is unrealistic. To do this would hinder the undergraduate studies and defeat the college's purpose. All of these issues should be decided upon within certain guidelines because the integrity of the school is most important. If they cannot be done responsibly, then they should not be changed . The best way is with a qualified representative. Eric Levine for Sop_homore Representative. Wendy ~ernstein Any position in a student government plays ·a significant role in uniting the. college campus. The Student Fonun at Union College allows the interaction of students, administrators, and faculty in a joint effort to solve problems. There are many factors that must be cm1sidered when · voting for a candidate. Be leery of false promises. I don't plan to list my position on numerous issues. A representative's job is to present the students' views rather than to project his/her own personal opinion. Social makeup is the usage of what the College offers by the individual student. For example with top administrators, several principal people of the· faculty, community, and student body. lt has given me the opportunity to express tl:le . opinion of the Freshman Class in matters that greatly concern all students. I've devoted many hours a week to the Presidential Advisory Board and at the same time maintained a secretarial job in the Department of the Arts. Another position I've held· is that of Student Host Program Coordinator. This has from both sides of an issue, weigh -· .> them carefully and choose the candidate who will truly represent you. My phone number is 6~24 and l live in Rm. 403 West, in case you want to discuss any of ·· WRUC Radio, .Bio. Club, Intramural and Team Sports. · allowed me to come into contact with. many students on campus. I've bad to. make at:rangements for prospective students to stay overnight and e~perience colle:ge life firstha11d. · On various occasions I've shown students around and wish to continue helping incoming students next year with assistance in the orientation apd Gatesm~n programs. In the past, too few women have pa·rtieipated in the governance system. I would like to change this. Please take the tiine to consider aU the candidates. This is your school and it is your responsibility to select the most qualified person to repres~;:nt our class. Please consider me, Wendy Bernstein. r·· -- fl Gordon Single To the Class of l980: My name is Gordon Single and I'm a candidate · for Class Representative. Several issues pervade the campus which upon resolution will !lffect everyone. Therefore at the onset of this election, its importance must be stressed. The major cause for the recent turmoil seems to have its roots in the infamous question, ••should the hockey team go Division I?\ I feel the problem is much more than this and should raise the question, \Should Union· leave NESCAC?\ To this I answer yes, not for the sake of the hockey team going Division 1, but rather to increase the academic calibre of tbe STUDENT-athlete who· comes to Union. Recruiting restrictions disallow a coach to enter a prospective player's house or high school. How, then, can he truly find out the calibre of the prospective student? Furthermore, there is no reason why the financial and admission policies have to change. I would say that the standards would be more strictly imposed. I'm not running fot this office . because I'm an ambitious political 'science major who's looking for something to put down on a law school application. I simply refuse to let a few people dictate their policies on behalf of the entire the issues with me. So I ask you to vote wisely. I:Jow you vote will determine how you will live for the next three years. Sincerely, Gordon Single Amy Kloner Randy Feldman Larry linett Steve Carter ·campus. Let's face it. These . people, including the student . trustees, ate involved in so many lt is my intention, as facets of the government, and/ ot Sophomore Representative, to a~ R.A.'s, and/ or were on the create within UColl a moi:e Concordy staff or whose friends involved social atmosphere. · were on it, that their opinions are My hope is to get every virtually the only ones being individual interested in the/their heard. · Social makeup of the College These are My Qgals b.ecause 1 have found quite .a few apathetic students who continually bitch and do nothing to get themselves out of the situation tbat they are in. l want to give these f)\tudents no excuse to comment on Our College. My Ideal is to get these students interested in doing something for UColl and get those who are already into the Community, deeper stiJl. In a hope to draw these people from , the woodwork of the East and els·ewhere, I support the instituting Social makeups of a more diverse nature than the Norm. I support the possible coming of the ·New Arts Centre, the revised Comp. Ed. system, a final decision on Hockey, and an informative extra-curricular activities brochure_ My closing word to you is to become concerned and interested in what becomes of Your College. Destroy apathy by casting your Vote either for Me or another of my worthy opponents. If· you . have questions to ask me, call me at 6600 or see me at 256 Fox. Steven V. Carter '80 Andrew Wisoff My name is Andrew Wisoff; I am a candidate for the office of Sophomore Class Representative. Quite frankly, most students at Union do not care who represents them in the student forum. V ny should they? They don't feel as if they are being represented. It is not my purpose or intention to demean those students who are \inactive members of the campus community,\ but rather to address my statement to the underlying causes of the present student apathy directed towards the student government. During the present election season, we have already heard that inevitable, neutral, non- controversial phrase used time and time again, .. we have a communications problem... Yes, that is very easy to say, but what has set the campus community apart? Why have I heard so often, .. the only people who know 'what the hell's going on' are the ones who hang out in Mrs. Marra's officer' I personally believe that most of the underlying causes of the present controversies on campus stem from one basic misunder- standing from within the present administration and the student body. We forget what has made Unton great. We are a small, academically diversified , institution with a w~ll defined reputation. Let's face the factsj Union College students are not all stereotypes. We are jocks, nerds, The characteristics that depict a qualified representative · are: leadersilip, responsibility, acquaintance with governance system, and enthusiasm. Through the activities that 1 have become involved in, I have demonstrated my qualifications for the position of Sophomore Representative. This year I have been the Freshman Representative on the Presidential Advisory Board. Being a member of this committee has taugllt me numerous things, It has familiarized me with the governance system, and precedutal proces~s of the . ~Oi!t?se~ Al~o it _!las acqu~nte~ me . J enc9urage you to get ~he.facts. ---~- .... -~...1-!li-!illlliilllllll• Community. What is meant by 1 Continued on Paae _13

En ITO RIALs· Housing Turmoil~ This is what you have caused~ Ms. Dowling. As the year moved into the .spring term the housing committee and you tried to impose a new housing proposal upon the student body. Once exposed to us~ pressure appeared in the form of an irate campus community. Eventually it became overwhelming so you graciously stated \that any action at this .time would not be in the best interest of Union.\ At this point, we all gave a sigh of relief and cheered for the \power\ of. the student en masse. We realized that your porposal was dow.o but not out and that you would try to reintroduce it next year. Our argument would only be more resounding then. Contentment reigned ~ right? Wrong. On Sunday, May 8, the already infamous \Dowling switch\' began. Once again you forced yourself into the center of controversy. By Monday night, the campus (mainly the class of 1980) had become enraged and cries of deception rang out. I) Students planning to room in suites, even those with the best numbers in the Sophomore lottery, are being given the shaft. Besides the fact that they do not like being place<! below freshmen, they were not told in advance of your ~brainstorm.\ 2) Freshmen who were condemned to Lenox Road this year are not thrilled about a second year in isolation. · 3) On Monday, you said that you would issue a statement and a list of available housing f<1r the Class of 1980. On Tuesday, Suzanne, you issued a statement bluntly stating that \many of .us will be living. on Lenox Road\ along with other information but failed to issue a list of available housing. Believe it or not, this upsets us. Students now find themselves running around seeking rooms in fraternities, sororities and off campus, but since we were not informed at an earlier time this is simply impossible for most of us. Others who considered transferring are making tbeir decisions based upon your actions. is this for the good of Union? ·Having postponed the Sophomore lottery, Concordy only asks you to review the havoc you have created. Suzanne, there is one positive result from this scandal. You have single-handedly sUcceeded in unifying the Class of 1980 against you. In closing, members of the Coilcordy staff would like to know if our office will be used for housing. If so, we would like to know how much space should he reserved for incoming Freshmen. If this is not a part of your master plan, then we would like to know the rates - we are 90nsidering living here next year. Opinion by MATT BRIEF The season is in full swing once again. The candidates are running (or: at least walking fast) to earn the privilege of being the most abused students on campus. Inevitably, walls become plastered with the usual cliche-ridden signs, \Communication and Responsiveness,\ \Help Someone Help You,\ and the vital original, \ ...... for President.\ Don't take any of those posters too seriously, However, student government is something to be taken seriously. The ·list below are just a few of the things that members of government and major committees have been instrumental in accomplishing: I) the plan for Liberal Learning (replacing Comp-Eds) 2) the Internal Education Foundation 3) the new Admissions Model 4} the abolishment of the Squatter's Rights system 5} the assumption of certain tax committee costs by Planning & Priorities - 6) inprovements in West Dining Hall 7) the building of the Dutch Hollow 8) the movement to develop the Arts Program, particularly the hiring of an Art Historian for next year Last year, over 1,000 students voted. This year the turnout should be even heavier due to the unprecedented controversy surrounding the ethics of the Hockey program, and even more so the conduct of President Thomas Bonner. Allow a veteran of 11tudent government to give you a few hints about how to vote. I) Don't base your vote on the Hockey issue - basically because it is not as important as one. would think, and, quite frankly, it's operation is under investigation by the campus trustees and all the facts simply aren't available. 2) Pick strong people; members of student government have to .. stand up to double-talking, shady Presidents, and faculty members who are of the opinion that students should have no say in aiding . the development of school policy. 3) People who spout wildly idealistic schemes are at best nice dreamers, at worst uninformed students who have no idea of what they're getting themselves into. Promises of new gyms, dorms, and Arts buildings are unrealistic for the next few years~ The money simply isn't there. Vote for people who seem to be taking a rational, knowledgeable approach to campus problems. 4) Avoid people who constantly promise to follow your views and consult you on every issue from tenure to what 1 clothes, they .should wear. These candidates ought to win the award for \I can ape Jimmy Carter's phony promise, we're all good people\ campaign. Members of student government ought to listen to students who are informed and apprised of fact$ surrounding any issue, ·but they are in .no way bound to accept the views of the majority. 5) Finally, look to a person's background and see what he's done. Has he been active and successful in his endeavors on campus? Is he knowledgeable? Was he mediocre in a previous position? No matter what happens, a few excellent people with innovative minds geared to enhancing Union's academics and social life and who are willing to put in long hours will be elected. There will also he a few people elected with high minded promises who will be stunned into silence by the complex problems and personalities operating in college governance. Finally, there will be a few who seck to gain a- title so they can put a meaningless tidbit on their transcnpts. And next yeat, we will hear the same cries of incompetency and irresponsibility. To quote Voimegut, \And so it L :E·:~ J.·c~l~~~.ITIT:S.~ : . . ~ . ' :' ', . - . ' ' ·-- ' . . . '.. ·, . ' '' - . - . ' ~ , ' rumor ''denied· ·t. · . ' .. ' ,., . ' l ·,' make]lp ;Cv~ey • ~n()qain-~'~ ·ffe: · · ptefer the \natural lt1ol4 ,. tl~cl , ' ·I are ~ot so. vain· a,s. to sta,nd 1n To the ·Edlt~t: ;:. ·n:t 1 .'- front oftite mirror for hour3, Sorn~ group, of pers~nts l!as. mas(;ara iii : hand~ ttying to been SpJeading a. rumot, Jb~~•i .make OUtselVe$ look like Uni9n Colteg¢ is about to' loscf someone we:re not.! As :·many . its acc'reditatio.n in noted p~ychol&)gt$ts .' 'hive ; en'gineering~ l would: like to stated ... the way you dress and . ,spike the . rumor now: It is take care of yourself is. a ditect · . simply untrue. . · · ·· : ~' reflection of the opiniOD, you },. Sure we were visited last have 'of yl$urself)t We· are · Fall by an accrediting: team : happy with who we are, and· from the Bngine<er's Council are not striving to be Farrah · for PJ:ofessiona1 Development Fawcett · ·· ·:1 · ·· · ··(ECPO). We have been visited· .. 1 We feel also that the by a ~itnilar team every fout Qr . . students . at Union College five years sin~ ai:cFeditation dress comparatively better was first adopted. Moreover, .. than students at othet4lolleges .. we will be visited by them ; The purpose of this letter is every fou:r or five year&. b.l the not to attack the men .at Unjon future too. CQUege but to defend :EC.PD does not visit scb.ools ourselves against the to: take their· acc.-editation unwarrante4 opinion of a from them, at least• not. fellow freshman. without a1llple (five to ten Sincerely, Barb GaJ:to DQmta Giannone years) warning; We tut:ve received no such wanting. What the visiting team does do is to try to sp()t Weaknes11es in ()Ut programs and to .tell us about them. .If we agre~ With them th~t what they perceive as faults ate indeed weaknesses,. we correct. them. If we do not believe ECPD's criticisms are cortect · ·or justified, we appeal them. The only .significant deficiency in our programs on this visit Wll$ the fact that students were using the college~s comptt~bensive education regulations to avoid taking c<>urses in the humanities and social Sciences. We in engineerins were- well ,,, aware <Of tbis d~fi'¢iency· 'but· ' > wer~,poweF1ess to dc:1 any.t}Jjng, about it .. We asked ECPD to help· us by criticizing, this aspect of our program. They did indeed, but, as it turns out, the problem was solved by Dean Brownlee and the Educational Policy Committee anyway. The ECPD final report will not arrive Until O~~ber 19~7:­ and the problems it will · address will have be¢n ~olv<:d !ly}une 1977. . _ .. We think the reaccr~ditatio~ visits are an ex<:ellent ,idea. In a field that changes as rapidly as engin~ring it is very useful to be {)rought up to date and tQ receive · suggestions as to how to 01ake out .progralt1S better~ · E.J. CraiL Chairman Divisiotl of Engineerillg · · &. Applied $ciences · .. TQ • Dis&runtted Member of · the Clus· of 1980 · · 'c . I o the. Editor,· or Concordlensis ·· , ThiS: le.tter is tn respbn~ to aL · letter that appeared in Coneordiensis . on May 4th. The attack y.oli made on Union College women. is completely u~justified. We would like to k~ow bow many .girls fly out 9,f Jhe dorms five minutes before. class WJthout CQmbil1g tht;ir hair and brushing their teeth. .Being , girls ourselves,, we know that the bathroolX\S are constantly in use dqring the' morning. Obviou!lly y4)U have very linlited intetaotion with the women on tbi$ campus. We do care about the way we look~ but ·we don't get into being fake. What are your standards for looking good'l Do you exp~c;t eveni·n8 gowns ac anied by faces Pam Husen P.S. We are not afraid to sign our nam~s to something we stand behind. \ **** Uear Editor: there is no doubt that the wn\ter of the letter signed \djsgruntled member of the class of '80'' had the right to represent his views in the form of a letter. The purpose of this letter is not to dispute this, nor · , to react to the content, which I must note I fmd la~ghable (although the imagery Was great .....,_ outfits fit for clbwns arid the scientific validity qf · \lliaily · noted psychologists'~ · was -catchy), ' 'What I am questioning is ·the appropriateness of such a letter. I fuid that the author is iinposing one set of values upon an entire ~mm'linity. A college conununity should be divene and heterogeneous; to strive for anything else seems to 1 be a chauvinistic attempt to make people conform tq ster¢otypes . and values With which they don't agree. I also consider the letter inappropriate in that. it places superficial, $U:rface . cbatacteristics above · the : feelin$ and- needs· of others. ·1 think the campus ha$ · mati:y more impo.ttant priorities with which to · .address · it$elf; · a plea · for enthusiasm, · -a pie~ 'for involvement, yes, these seem to be worthwhile endeavors. A pl$ for gir~ to: get up earlier and put on. makeup $eems ~ an insignif'1C4tlt,. trivial detail, witlt which ·we need ·not concern ourselVes. Sln«relf, · ))ebbie ~'* .. ,, ' concordy ~ttack.edi~. To· 1be Editor: There · is a serious lack of organization, communication, and leadership in our school newspaper, Contotdi~ll$is. Last week 1 was asked· by Jon Flescher lllid Steve Grill, the photo editors,. if 1 bad any .pictures -of the Clflmbake. Being a photographer and a brother of Sigrita Chi,. 1 was only happy to develop and print my pictures. The ·photo editol'S were thankful, and even th.e editor, Danny WtiJjnilower, seemed glad 1 had photos of the Clambak~. The Clambake is always one of, if not the ~iggest soy~al events of the ·school year~ and it wouk.l only be natural for the ~h\:Jol newspaper to' cov.cr tbe event. ·'The . nlltute ofi th~ Clambake is best_ descdbed 'bY . a colla~. or photo~say;·not ,. by words. And·;yet\.Con~nty did ·not print, any pictu~s. of . tbe Clambake, despite the:fa~t that · six · pho·tos. ·wete submitted!. · ·. · There · is ·: something here, more than · a · snub, to~ :my photographic · sk.Ul$ · an.d, my fraternity, the pictures were not printed, even 'thQugh ·theY were 'teq11ested·. by· the pboto editors, w~n.ted by tbe editor in chief (or so my impression · was), and d~pite tlte fact that mono: than half .of the stUdent body was at the Girling Center on April 30! Of coUt!le there are a lot ·of other articles in Coneordy, but to ignore an event of such propoi'ti'O#s is · simply unfair 'to Sigma Chi, and a 'disservice to ·the·rtst of the c;oUege conununity~ The fact that fratemities contribute heavily to the · (;lollege conunufiity is not always-- recogniZed by the rest of the college cotnnn.uiity, · especially , by administrato'rs, My crlti~ism is tbat you eout<t have done a better job editing, . or else have added mor¢ pages to the paper. Perhaps Coneordlensis should not devote almost two pages per. week to tbe sophomoric .. C!assifieds.\ I would like to thank the paper, however, for printing articles. advertising the CJ.upbaket and for printing our letter thanking the college community for its success. While developing and printing the ·Clambake pic .. ture!l, . 1 notic¢d what is apparently a lack of respect for the p.hotograph.ers of Coneordy. I have. worked. for Cone«:trdiensis before; and I kn(lw the_ photography is a demanding job.· M.any tirnes Photo .assignments ate given at the last . moment - Jon Flesher a[Jd Steve Giill were told at 9:00 last Tuesday, night they had ·to get a picture . Df .. Jim- trump. for the .cover st<:Jty~ · They hac!. to take his.pict~~. <le-velop · Jhe negative~ .and thep print .it;.,, that·· night, in .ad<,liti()n . · tQ ' ~heir:- no:ntlally . heav)\ load. A pQlaroid. camera is sorely· needed by the phQto staff sinee much oftbeir work isjust snapshots of individuals. .. The. pb.o.to· editors ba~ .nQ biput int() the p~per .~ the fact that tbey were anxious to·bave a photo essay «>n the O.mbake proves · my point. ' Unlike: Writing for the paper, wJlich helps develop a person's ll!bility. :to communicat-e~ photography for the newspaper is unrewafcJ.ina and dulL Newspaper photography d~sli$tle for a .p!).9.tl)gm:)?lt~t~s skill (because of the nature of new~ pfint)f and. is· <>ften Just snapshots of people and events, hatdiy a -medium for the artistic qualities of photosraphy·. This is not to ., say that it is unimportant for the . paper, or that people should ·uot do it. Simply it takes time. and does not develop a photogtapher's skills~ .. 1 am involved in many activities as. I'm sure, many other UCol students are. The rew~rds are ofteti personal ~ the satisfaction of contributing to s()tne part of the college commu11ity and the erthana;ment of ~one's talents or goals. But I would 11ot work for Concordiensis photo ~taff because of the present editorial ·and news e;diton. unreal .pf()pel lack·< for,' · eSStmC bard\' editor In-c tlle e take: Co.m they-A CQna r«en1 than.1 a,nd a in tel'l newst the e1 and Let that J by.K1 are t tQgetl h1 fac and t phot• somei HowE viewp ·being dema meml are f1 to sp up.~t Howe the r artic comp certai the litniu illajQ Th abov' iiUfill the s realb Edit< -alon( be: is EKce pra<:1 some even ha'le claJtl fll¢t l'e'SUl thiS' Tt cdti' staff reso1 and toge1 we pap€ HCl to ~to '\ this hun ove. Prg 1~7 the Lot the Sw ren' 20, Pr< imJ ' bre o~t rigl eve res stu to

Page8 EDITORIALS. Housing Turmoil. This is what you have caused, Ms. Dowling. As the year moved into the spring term the housing committee and you tried to impose a new housing proposal upon the student body. Once exposed to us, pressure appeared in the form of an irate campus community. Eventually it became overwhelming so you graciously stated \that any action at this time would not be in the best interest of Union.\ At this point, we all gave a sigh of relief and cheered for the \power\ uf.the student en masse. We realized that your por,posal was down but not out and that you would try to reintroduce it next year. Our argument would only be more resounding then. Contentment reigned - right? Wrong. On Sunday, May 8, the already infamous \Dowling switch\ began. Once again you forced yourself into the center of controversy. By Monday night, the campus (mainly the class of 1980) had become enraged and cries of deception rang out. I) Students planning to room in suites, even those with the best numbers in the Sophomore lottery, are being given the shaft. Besides the fact that they do not like being placed below freshmen, they were not told in advance of your \brainstorm.\ 2) Freshmen who were condemned to Lenox Road this year are not thrilled about a second year in isolation. 3) On Monday, you said that you would issue a statement and a list of available housing for the Class of 1980. On Tuesday, Suzanne, you issued a statement bluntly stating that \many of us will be living on Lenox Road\ along with other information but failed to issue a list of available housing. Believe it or not, this upsets us. Students now find themselves running around seeking rooms in fraternities, sororities and off campus, but since we were not informed at an earlier time this is simply impossible for most of us. Others who considered transferring are making their decisions based upon your actions. Is this for the good of Union? Having postponed the Sophomore lottery, Coneordy only asks you to review the havoc you have created. Suzanne, there is one positive result from this scandal. You have single-handedly succeeded in unifying the Class of 1980 against you. In closing, members of the Concordy staff would like to know if our office will be used for housing. If so, we would like to know how much space should be reserved for incoming Freshmen. If this is not a part of your master plan, then we would like to know the rates - we are considering living here next year. Opinion by MATT BRIEF The season is in full swing once again. The candidates are running (or at least walking fast) to earn the privilege of being the most abused students on campus. Inevitably, walls become plastered with the usual cliche-ridden signs, ••communication and Responsiveness,\ \Help Someone Help You,\ and the vital original, \ ...... for President.\ Don't take any of those posters too seriously, However, student government is something to be taken seriously. The· list below are just a few of the things that members of government and major committees have been instrumental in accomplishing: I) the plan for Liberal Learning (replacing Comp-Eds) 2) the Internal Education Foundation 3) the new Admissions Model 4) the abolishment of the Squatter's Rights system 5) the assumption of certain tax committee costs by Planning & Priorities 6) inprovements in West Dining Hall 7) the building of the Dutch Hollow 8) the movement to develop the Arts Program, particularly the hiring of an Art Historian for next year Last year, over 1,000 students voted. This year the turnout should be even heavier due to the unprecedented controversy surrounding the ethics of the Hockey program, and even more so the conduct of President Thomas Bonner. Allow a veteran of student government to .give you a few hints about how to vote. l) Don't base your vote on the Hockey issue - basically because it is not as important as one would think~ and, quite frankly, it's operation is under investigation by the campus trustees and aU the facts simply aren't available. 2) Pick strong people; members of student government have to stand up to double-talking, shady Presidents, and faculty members who are of the opinion that students should have no say in aiding , the development of school policy. 3) People who spout wildly idealistic schemes are at best nice dreamers, at worst uninformed students who have no idea of what they're getting themselves into. Promises of new gyms, dorms, and Arts buildings are unrealistic for the next few years: The money simply isn't there. Vote for people who seem to be taking a rational, knowledgeable approach to campus problems. 4) Avoid people who constantly promise to follow your views and consult you on every issue from tenure to what •clothes. they should wear. These candidates ought to win the award for ••1 can ape Jimmy Carter's phony promise, we're all good people\ campaign. Members of student government ought to listen to students Who are informed and apprised of facts surrounding any issue, but they are in no way bound to accept the views of the majority. 5) hnally, look to a person's background and see what he's done. Has he been active and successful in his endeavors on campus? Is he knowledgeable? Was he mediocre in a previous position? No matter what happens, a few excellent people with innovative minds geared to enhancing Union's academics and social life and who are willing to put in long hours will be elected. There will also be a few people elected with high minded promises who will be stunned into silence by the complex problems and personalities opcraung in college governance. Finally, there will be a few who seck to gam a- title so they can put a meaningless tidbit on their transcnpts. And next yea1, we will hear the same cries of mcompetency and Irresponsibility. To quote Vonnegut, \And so it CONCORDIENSIS, Mai_ 11, 1977 , rumor ·d•nied' ·~ . . ~· ~ ~ To the &Utot: ; 1 . ~, r •. Some gr9~p of persons tms been spreading a rumor thai . UniQn Coll~ge is about t<{losci' · its· accn~di.tation in engineering. 1 would like to spike the . rumor .now: it J~ simply untrue. · '' · Sure we were visited last Fall by an accrediting team from the Engineer's Council for Professiqnal Development (ECPD), We have been vil!ited· ·! by a similar team every four or five years since accreditation was first adopted. Moreover, we will be visited by them . every fout or five years in the future too, ECPD does not visit schools to; ~e their accreditation from them, at least not. without ample (five to ten years) warning. We have received no such warning. What the visiting team does .do is to try to spot weaknesses in our programs and to tell us about them. lf we agre~ with them that what they perceive . as faults are ind.eed weaknesses, we correct them. If we do not believe ECPD's criticisms are corre(it or justified, we appeal them. The only significant deficiency in our programs on this visit was the fact that students were using the college's comprehensive education re~lations to avoid taking courses in the humanities and social sciences .. We in engineering were well awaroe of this deficiency· but ·· were.po:werless to clo anything, about it. We asked ECPD to help us by criticizing this aspect of our program. They did indeed, but, as it turns out, the problem was solved by Dean Brownlee and thr;: Educational Policy Committee anyway. The ECPD final report will not arrive until Ot;Wber l97J, and the problems it will address will have been solved l,Jy ,June 1977. _ . We think th.e reaccreditation visits are an excellent idea. In a field that changes as rapidly as engineering it is very useful to be brought up to date and to receive sugge11tions as to how to make our programs better. E.J. Craig, Cl:tairman Division of Engineering & Applied Sciences ucoU girls resp~nd .To a DisgriUltled Member of the CIU$ of 1980 c I o the Ed'itor · ot Coneordiensis · . This letter is in response to a letter that appeared in Coneordiensis · on May 4th. The attack yon made ort Union College women i!l completely unjustified. We would like to know how many girls fly out of ~lle dorms five minutes before class without combing their hair and brushing their teeth. Being , girls ourselves, we lcnow that the bathrooms are constantly in use during the' morning. Obviously you have very limited interaction with the women on this campus. We do care about the way we look, but ·we don't get Into being fake. What are your standards for looki11g good? Do you exp~c,t evening gowns accompanied by faces . plaswttd with· .. ·. inches of makeup. every rn~nning? We.· prefer the natural look~ · ~d < are not so vain as to stand ln front of the mirror for hours. mascara in bl:llld, .trying to make qutst;Ives look like someone we•re not. As ''many noted. psychologists · bl~ stated •.. the way you dress and take care of yourself is a cli~ct reflection of the opinion you have of yourself,·~ We are happy with who we are, and · are not striving to be Farrah Fawcett. ·;; We feel also that tbe students. at Union College dress compar&tiv¢ly better than students at othercolleges. The ,purpo~,re of this letter is not to attack the men at Union College but to defend ourselves agai.nst the unwarranted opinion of a fellow freshman. Sincer4'ly, Barb G•zzo Donna GianJtone Pam Husen P.S. We are not afraid to sign out names to something we stand behind. \ **** J.Jear .'Editor: There is no doubt that the writer of the letter signed \disgruntled member .of the class e>f '80\ had the right to represent his views in the form of .a letter. The purpose of this letter is not to dispute this, nor · . to react to the content, which I must note I find laughable (although. the imagery was gre11.t ~ outfits fit for clowns and the 'sCientific validity of \many not~ psychologiSts\ · was -catchy); · · What I am questioning is tbe appropriateness of such a letter. I find that the author is imposing one set of values upon an entire community. A college community should be diverse and. he~rogeneous; to strive for anything else seems to; be a chauvinistic attempt to make people conforrtl to stereotypes and values. with whic:h they don't agree. 1 also consider the letter inappropriate in that it places superfic.ial, surface. characteristics above the . feeiing and- fieeds ·of others. I think the campus has many mote important priorities with which to· address itself; · a plea for enthusiasmt ·a plea for involvement, yes, these seem to be worthwhile endeavors. A plea for girls to get up earlier and put on makeup seems like an insignificant, trivial detail, with which ·we need not concern ourselves. sme,rety, 'Debbie !{au concordy attacked ••• To ttae Editor:. There is a serious lack ·of organization, communication, and leadership irt out school newspaper, CQncordi~n!lis. Last week 1 was asked by Jon Flescher and Steve Grill, the photo editors, if I t,ad any pictures of the Cl~ntbllke. Being a photQgrapher and a brother of Sigma Chi, I was only happy to develop and print my pictures. The photo edit()ts were thankful, and even the editor, Danny Wojnilower. seemed glad I had photos of the Clambake. The Clambake is always one of, if not the biggest soc~al events of the school year, and it would only be natural for the seh'ocl newspaper to C()Vet the event. The nature of tht; ca.rnbaike is .best de$Ca;i.bed by a colkt,ge, or. pbotQ-essay, · not by words. And·-Yet· C.ontordy did not ,print .any pictures of the Clambak~, de~pite the fa<'t that · six photos wen submitted! Tbere is :something here, more than a snub, tCI, my photogmphic skills and my fraternity. The pil;tures were not printed, even though t)ley were · requested by the photo c;ditors, wanted by tbe editor in chief (or so my impression was), and de$pite the fact that more than half of the student body was at the Girling tenter on April 30! Of course there are a lot ·of other articles in Concordy;. but to ignore an event .of such. proportions is · simply unfair • to Sigma Chi, and a ·disservice to the· rest of the college community. The fact that fraternities contribute · heavily to the college community is not always recognized by the rest of the college community, especially by administrators, My criticism. is that you could have done a better job editing, or else have added more pages to the paper. Perhaps Corteordi~nsis should not devote almost two pages .per. week to the sophomoric ''Ciassified.s.\ 1 would like to thank thc: paper, however, for printmg articles advertising the Clambake, and for printing our letter thanking the college community for its success. White developing and printing the Chtmbak~& pic- tures, l noticed wbat is apparently a lack of reti'cct for the photog.raphers of ConcQtdy. I have worked for Coneordiensls before, and I know the photography is a demanding job. Many times photo assignments ate given at the las.t moment - Jon Flesher a;nd Steve Grill were told at 9:0() last Tuesday. night they had to get a picture :ef Jim. Trump· for the cover .story. 'th~y had. to take his .picture, develop .the negatives, and then print it;·, that,. night, in addition .. to 'their normally . heaVy load. A polaroid camera is sorely·needed by the ,photo staff since much of their wqrk is just snapshots .of individuals •. The photo editors ·~ve .no input into the p~per ........ the fact that they were anxious to have a photo essay on the Clamba\-e proves my point. · Unlike writing for the ,paper, wltich helps develop a petson's ability to communicate, photography for the newspaper is unrewarding and dull Newspaper photography does little for a pl;tOtograJ?hds skill (because of the nature of news print), and is often just sJU!,pshots of people and events, hardly a ·medium for tb.e artistic qualities of photography. Tbis is not to , say that it is unimportant for the paper, or that people should ·not do it. Simplf it iakes time, and doe$ not develop a photographer's skills. I am involved in many activities as, I'm sure, many other UCol students are. The rewards are often personal - the 'Satisfaction of contributing to some part <>f the college community and the enhancerrtent of one 1 s talents or goals. But I would not work for Conc:ordiensis photo staff because of the .present editorial and news editors, unre~ propc Jack. for. essen hard~ edito ln the I take CQIU they Co•• recc;t tha;n, and. in tel new~ the t Le that by .~ are to gel in fa and pho1 somi Ho\\ view . bein1 dem mem are J to s. upse Ho\\1 the arti• com ceru the· liinil majc Tl abo' n111tl the reali Edit ·aloll he i Exc· pra' som ever baVI Clall fact rest tlris T ctiti staf res( and tog• we PaP To c/« ., thi hu: OVI Pr1 19' tht Lo the Su re1 20 Pr im br· 0\l ri! ev re: st1 to

unreuonablt> ctem•nd$', laclc! pf . protx'r · equipment, and·: . ·the . laek ·.()f mp~t;' 'by) aild' r.espeot fot,' · the · pbotographel!s., .. In essence the pbot9gtapheJts .are llard-wotking· tQols. · of tbe editoriat:·staff •.. ·, .h ·· ln·c;(')nciUsion, 1 suggest that the editor au4 his assistants take a: o.-i,tieal look at· the Contord:y pb:oto :staff (maybe theyAviJlr·r~n.ct '()Ut WltY ·· ·ilO · Coneordy· phot()grapher in· r~nt y~ars bas w.orked more than; ·two tenns fc;>t ;th~ paper'); a,nd al$o at their responsibility · fu. terms: of p~senting a college newspaper· tba.t wilt benefit the entire .coUege community. · Sincerely, Ke-vin Sehary Let us start off . by saying that lilany ·of the thin.g& cited by . Kevin Scba,ry .jn his letter are ttile. Ptdting the paper t 0 gether on Tuesday nights is, · ht fac4 e~tremelY disorganiz.ed and the ~mands made on the photo~tapl!; staff may sometimes seem unreasonable. However. we feel that Kevin~s viewpQint .of the pa\')er~. .not · being a ,fuember of the staff, dernan4s comment by staff members. Submitted pictures are frequently not printed due to space limitation&; which is upsetting to the photo .staff. However,. the main thrust of the newspaper should, be its articles, though strongly complemented by pictures. (fa certain picture does not tpake ~e:. paper _ dtle to . spa9e. . Umitations it is not viewed ~s· a · major catastrophe. The inefficiency, referred to above, is probably due to the number of pers()ns working on the .. staff; Many people do not rc;alize h()W much work the Editor..,in..Cbief .a.ctu~ly does >alone (a llell of a lot) and that be is only as good as his st;Uf. Except tor editors, thete i$ pral:ticaUy no staff and sometimes. the . edito~.s don!t ev¢n show up. · There $hould b,a-qe been pictures of the clambake ~n the paper. Thet fact tha.t there· were n.one is- .a result of among other tbings this disorgamzation. There is obv'ionsiy much to criticize · about . the : Coneotdy staff1 but with · its limited resource& (ie. .l11oney~ input, and people) it, works well together, works vecy hard. and we think puts out a gaod paper. Jon Fl$her Steven Grlll Co11eordy· Pboto Editors HOUSING.~. to tie co•lege C()lJit~~inuty; · . ~to the Editor~ · · · ·' · · '~w~ feel compelled '.to wrlie this letter on heha;lf of the huntlreds of petitioners wb:o ovetwlteb:ningly opposed the PropoSll for Dormitory U$l 1977•18. On MQrtday night, at the onset of the Junior Clas!I Lottery, it beCame evident .that the Director of Housing, Suzanne Dowling, did indeed renege o:n: her letter .of April 20, 1917 which stated that the Proposal would . not be implemented this fall. We .condemn her action as a bteacb of faith and as an outright mMkery of !ltudent tights. Ms. Dowling <lid not even have the decency, self respect and courage to face the student bo~y on April 20~ 1977 to personally pr¢senr her letter . CONCQR!J.(ENSI$J Mpy 11, .197,7 of l!lJPla~~t~pn~ ,w_~ · .~ ,bf'Y.r: .. no ~)\rther . c:;onftde~~ · tn, M!!! OovvlQl.~· . · 111 . Sj,n~~rely, .. Mlf.leilne Berpr David Rubin no~~Y ·listens. . ;f to th~t. t#P.IPQ!J ecnnlllWlity; e/o .~ Editor: . . 011 Monday. · . May 9th, havoc broke loose outside the West· .. Ct:Jllege Library .. Student$ drawing in the Ju~i4t lottery sud(Jenly realiz~d that the~ was a dism:-epency .concerning next year's campus :housing. Students, specificallY W~t. College residents, enraged with ~niger ~t what seemed to be ·a last ditl:b effQrt to salvage the .. postponed housing propo~ began a strong prote.!lt· Whether or not Suzant)e~s \mistake\ , wa& actual or intended~ (most students are calling it an underhanded trick) it only proves that lbere Was a communications bre!lk;down somewhere in the system. Either Su?;ai}P,e D<>wling and the Hou~ing Committee iropro:perly inform.ed the campu.s community of their intenti<ms. the caxn.pus community r.\ tnisint~reted the .revi$¢d . housing plan for 1977-78? or the lfousing Office totally neglected , to inform the students tb.at various blocks of rooms would be reserved for fteshmen i.e~ 80 percent of West1 sections of Ricllmond; . a~4, va,ii~n~. fioqr~ iR Fo:~t. and, IJaY.id~on. · . . · , Many students feel,that M~~ . Dowling~s to.tal (lis.regard of student sentiment and une~bi~ · tactics (changing. available .housirlg after the room .selection process had ab:eady begun) is due cause to call for her resignation. . 1 write this letter \\:ith the.), ·hope 'that student$ will .. not-;; attack Ms .. · D<owiing · pers.onally~. ,but , tatber offer constructi~e , criticism and . advice to her Ol;lW and in the future •. suzanne1is not th..,<it~t adminis~rator to, · suggest. , ,aJl ·freshman.· (!Qtj}lS;· . Dean Mat:k .Smith, Jay Shup-e ~nd ~2( .. housing ditectot Debbie Kilgus . are, al~o strong proponents ·of an' freshmen do.~;ms •. · .ln fact . they · e.ven considered the id~.bdore.Ms., · Dowling ever came· to Union •. What. : is to be . :contested · though, is the methods that were. used and, tb,e lack of proper wmmunication. Fin~uy, I wpul<lAike to ·clear . up -lnotb:er rrtisund.<:rstanding. that is presently $iromering waiting . to explode . into anQtber controversy next year. Wll<ln · Suzanl'le 0C>.Wling subtl'!iU~ ·~ letter ad<Jr~s.sed to the. ,, campus ~()tumunity oh A:ptil 20, 1977, it was per~eived .as an admissiott Df defei{t. If the letter. was read carefully, students would have understood that the Housing Proposal was postponed not r~jected. Suzanne Dowling has already submitted the .sarne proposal for 1978-79 and it was accepted, subject . to changes and revisions. In .other words, the proposal that students fought so bard to defeat will be implemented in the Fall of l918; unless w.e fight all over again. During. a conversation with Ms~ Dowling on April 5th, she . told me that one reason she would like to see «11 freshman dorms would be to insulate fre.sbrnen fro.m upperci-.~Jsrnen',ll. :\!Gf~cisQ\ · J;. now wonder why many upperclassmen ~ome . so cynipal 1\~0Ut ~tUd~nt life? C'Q~l~ if,· btf ~at ·nobcdy listeq$?. · · · · A: CaQ.did,ate · Class of 1980 five .. man tree . ' .. ' oW. )4$. ;j)~wling, f!to tb1r Edit9r: 'l>havec heatd many students ptaiSe · the term · @,broad · . program. I always thought Franee would be· fun but now· you have doubled my pleasure •. I don't have to go thrQugh this outrageous. lottery! Oh how I pity those Who have to go through • ·this aggravation. Tempers are ril!ing ionigbt ll$ .. · more and more r~oms sttppQ.sedly allotted tQ , Freshmen. If l were staying · he.re fall term, l would pitch a · tent itt Jackson's Gardens but I've heard that you have alrea«ty allotted the- corner campsites to Freshmen. My next option would be to move into the Holiday lnn where 1 hear they .are preparing a sign \Welcome Class ·of 1980\' (because W£C all know there isn't going to l)e any room on campus for the sophotnores). My oxdy fear is tbat you have . already given the corner suites in, the hotel to Freshmen. Well, ;:tctually l shouldn\t , complain, after alll don't have to wot.ry about my livit!g accommQdatiol)s •. ~ That is if yo:u. haven't .a.Uotted all pf tbe · roo~ in·· Rei:liles to Freshmen. · Of' . '~oll,rS~, . when l tet'tinf T . would. .like you to take a few suggestions into consideration when you tty to place me on campus: t) If I .mn put in a five~mail · tree . in Jackson~s Gardens, please don't make it an oak... f'm allergic to acorns. ; . 2) Give me Freshman st)itus, .. they seern to have the best rooms on campus for next year. · · _ · 3} Save the snow sculptures from Wititer Carnival •.. J'll live in one of them. · 4) Rent the no spaces to Wil).nebago . campers... , baddy's always wanted to buy me one. SJ Let•s airlift the Alumni Gym off the swimming pool .... 1 own a yl\cht. . ln conclusion, l would like to thaltk you for making life at Union so ... well ........... u,•• we say baphazatd(?). By the way, w~~re are you Jiving .lle~*. year? . Lt>ve and kisse~, • J('niiy . P.S. - You· did a great on Parent•s Weekend. .P .P$. - I kno:w a tenement in Troy that,.. needs a Jandlora: .housing war To· the .Edit()r: ''· As a member ohbe class of •so,. 1 have had to face administrative havoc my first. year at Union Whi~h has left me extremely disillusioned. Now ,Ms. Dowling and the housing administration have chosen to give our class the · shaft as well. As an incQming Freshman last ye:iar, I w.as 'faced with the possibility <>f not having my first choice room. Now as :a pr.;:nding Sophomore, l find l may get no room at all. Luckily, as a girl my odds are a bit better, Continued on fag~ 12 Page9 :F·ROM THE PRESIDENT'·S DESK. At my weekly discussion with the editors of ·concordy, I was asked about the situation on campus and, specifically, what the effect might be on the college. I recognized the sincerity of the question a1,1d its valic:Jity. 1 explained that I felt there was intense feeling on the campus, but not the kind of deep feeling that would have long-lasring negative effects. For several reasons; however, I could not give as full an explanation as I would have liked of our current status. Because some ,of the current issues revolve around people who have the right to privacy, those of us responsible for the college camwt deal as openly and fully as we would like with information. In the matter .of the admissions office, for example, the records of current students are involved. I believe that it is improper, indeed immoral,. for such personal information to be discussed publicly. A special faculty and student committee is now reviewing the situation. In the interim, it is wrong and prejudicial to characterize what has (or has not) happened. We must all have faith that the matter will be clarified and that a satisfactory explanation of events will be given to the campus. With respect to the events surrounding the suspension and reinstatement ofCoach Harkness, I can at this time say only that the officers pf the Board of Trustees were fully informed of campus sentiment concerning the hockey issues when they reinstated Mr. Harkness. Some of the information needed for a full explanation of ensuing events is of a personal nature. But I can state categorically that the rumors and suspicions about my role are baseless and without foundation. The special trustee committee now has the responsibility of making this clear to the campus. As to my position on the long-range future of the college, I have worked with appropriate committees and administrators, 1 have communicated with the faculty and invited discussion, and I have put my ideas before the Board of Trustees. For those who di~Jagree with my views on adult education or expanding the arts or strengthening lAM or making i)etter use of the University the appropriate channels have been and are open. I have agreed publicly that unfortunate things have been said and done and have taken my full share of responsibility for them. I wish now that others would do likewise so that following the trustees' report and actions all can come together in support of the college and its future. Certainly the public airing of internal disputes now serves no interest except the destruction of an otherwise bright future for the college. As you all know, we haVe a special committee of trustees reviewing the state of the college •. So far as I know, no vital information has been withheld from them. I have personally provided all information that is available to me. I would encourage all concerned with the college to withhold any judgments based on partial information. Much of the intensity of feeling at the present time is due to the lack of information, or surfeit of misinformation, on the campus. I am confident that when further information can be released, the campus will feel much more secure about what has happened and what we can expect in the future . The present limitation on public statements is frustrating to all, but to no one more than myself. Information about campus events was frozen at a time when rumors and misinformation were at their peak. Now, those responsible for tile college must act only with the total college and its future in mind. lhe privacy of individuals must be respected and events cannot be dealt with in isolation. For these reasons, l would hope that each person at Union will reserve any final evaluation .of recent events until the trustees have completed their review and all appropriate information is known. Editor-in·Cbief ...................................................................... Danny Wojnilower Associate Editor .................................................................................. Ben Green -News Editors ....................................................... Andy Mitchell, Matt Nagor~k} Layout.Editor ..... ; ......................................................................... Joe Cappuccio Feature Editor ............................ ; ..... , ........................................... Sara Simmon' Sports Editors ....................................................... Debbie Poletto. Marty Dolan Culture Editor ......................................................................... Fern rlomenhalt Business Managers ..................................................... Barbara Stern, Marla Lux Classifieds Editors ........... , ...... , .............. ; ....... Patti Moran •. Martha Rubemtem Pboto Editors .............................................................. ,Jon l'le~cher, Steve (inll Photography Staff .......................................................... Ed Plal.l, :-.lei I Kromck, Cary l'cverman, Marc Gotle1b, Jet! hHm<w Art Editor.............................................. .. .. ................................. l.e,ter \Ve1~' Poetry Editor ..................... ; .. , ......................... , ................. llelannc Stagcman Staff this week .... ; ......................................... Paul ca,trataro. Cmd) Aranov., Andre\\. W 1><111, .Lmd.1 Str auh~ CON{'ORDJENSIS is published e\er) \\ edne.,d~) b) th~ •tudent bod} of Union College, Old (;)m llall, ~cheneclod), '-oe\ \ tirl.; tu which Postal Forms 3579 are directed. Pubhutiun' Officr: i hr Jewish World Publications, 41o Smith ..,t., ~chene<'tad}, '. \ I ZJO<; (370-5483). Eniered in the Schene<·tad) I''\' Offir.· \' ..,rmnd ( '\\ Matter. Subscription Rate -'\ cenh per cnp~, $10. a ..-.r tlci\ rred anywhcr~ in the l'nitc(j :=,tate~.

•. e y it rk unreasonable. demand~. Ia~ of prc,>per equipment, and· ·the hick of itlput· by, and .tespect f<~r. the photographers. In essence the phot<~grapbe.rs .are bard..wotking tools of the editorial staff. ! • ln c;onelusion~ l suggest that the editor and his assistants take .a critical look at · the Contorcly photo :staff (maybe they- will '\find out why no Coneonty phOtographer in recent Years bas worked rnore than t:wo terms f(}r.the paper); and abo at their responsibility in terms of presenting a coll~ge neWspaper· that will benefit the entir¢ college <;ommunity. · Sincerely;. Kevin Sehary and defended Let us start off by saying that many -of the .things cited by Kevin Schary in his letter are true. Putting the paper together on Tuesday nights is, in fac4 extremely disorgll.nized and the demands made on the p.hotngrapqy staff may sometimes seem unreasonable~ Ht>wever, we feel that Kevin's viewpoint of the paper, not ' being a member of the staff, demands comment by !!taff members. Submitted pictures are frequently not printed due to space limitations-, which is upsetting to the photo staff. Ht>wever, the main thrust of the newspaper should .be its articles, though strongly complemented by pictures, If a certain picture does not J:Uake the paper due to space. limitations it is l'I.Ot vieWed' ~s a · major catastwph¢. Til¢ inefficiency, referred to above, is probably due to the number of persons working on. the staff. Many people do not realize how much work the Editt>r-in-Chief .actulllly does -alone .(a hell of a lot) and that he is onlY as good as his staff. Except lor editors, there is .practically no staff and sometirnes the editors d.on•t even show up. · There should have been pictun:s of the clambake in the .paper. The. fact that there were none iS:. a result of among other things this disorganization. There is ()bviously much to ctiticize about the Coneordy staff, but witb its limited resources (ie. mone}:, input, and .people) it. works well together, works very bard, and we think puts out a good pt\per. Jon Fleseber Steven Grill Concordy Photo Editors HOUSING ••• To ihe CQIIege Community: cjo tb.e Editor: . . We feel compelled to write this Jetter on behalf of the hundreds · of petitioners who overwhelmingly opposed the Proposal for Dormitory Use 1977-78. On Monday night, at the onset of the Junior Class Lottery; it became eviderttthat the Director of Housing, Suzanne Dowling, did indeed renege on her letter of April 20; 1977 which stated that the Proposal would not be implemented this fall .. We condemn her action as a breach of faith and as an outright mockery of student rights. Ms. Dowling did not even have the decency, self respect and courage to fa<:e the student body on April20, 1977 to personally preseflt her letter CONCORD(ENSI$, May 11, 197.7 LillER$ of e~plaQatic:m:• Wt: a..n h!'ve no flt.rther confiden~ ·in, M.s. l)owliqg. H• Sincerely, ·· Madeline Berger David Rubin no~•dy ·listens. ;f To the;. ca..-.pus eopUD~ity: ~I o th~ Editor: · . On Monday, · May 9tht havoc. broke lot>se outside the West· . College Library. Students drawing in the Junior lottery suddenly realized that there · was a discrepenQy concerning next year's campus housing. Students, specifically West College residents, enragl:d with anger at what seemed to be ·a last ditch effort to salvage the postponed housing proposal be~an .a strong prot~t. Whether or not Suzanne~s \mistake\ . was actual or intended, (most students are calling it an underhanded trick) it only ,proves that there was .a communications breakdown somewhere in the system. Either Suzanne Dowling and the .Housing Committee improperly informed the campus community of their intentions, the;: campus commu:nity _\ misinterpreted the revise<l .. housing plan for 1977-78, or the .{:lousing Office totally neglected . to inform the students that various blocks of rooms would be reserved for freshmen i.e. 80 percent of West, sections of Ricflmond, an,d Vafi(,).U!i floors in Fox and. PavJdson. Many students feel that Ms. Dowling~s total disregard of student sentiment and unethical · tactics (changing available housing after the room selection process had already begun) is que caus!;l to call for her resignation. 1 write this letter with the, hope that student:; will . notuj attack Ms. ·Dowling personally., .. but rather offer constructi:v.e . criticism and advice to her now and in the future~ Suzanneis not tbe.fitst ;t.dministrator to suggest all freshman dofm.S.· Dean Matk Smith, Ja.y Shupe and ex· housing director Debbie Kilgus are. also strong propt)nents of all freshmen dorms. . In fact they evep conside~ the idea .. before Ms. Dowling ever came to Union. What. . is to be coQteste<t though, is the methods that were used and the lack of .proper communic~t.tion. Fina,lly, I wouldAilce to <;:lear up anothe{ misund,erstanding that is presently simmering wait.ing . .to e~plode into anpther con,troversy next year. When Suzanne Dowling submitted a letter addressed to th~ . 'campus comtnunity on April 20, 1977, it was perceived as an admission of defeat. If the letter. was read carefully, students would have understood that the Housing Proposal was postponed not rejected. Suzanne Dowling has already submitted the same pto.posal for 1978•79 iUld it was accepted, subject to changes and revisions. In other words, the proposal that students fought so hard to defeat will ,be implemented in the Fall of 1978, unless w.e figt,_t all over again. During a conversation with Ms. Powling on April 5th, she told me that one reason she would like to see all freshman dortns would be to insulate freshmen uppe(C(assmen~s now wonder upperclassmen cynical a,bout Could it' · be· liste~'? . ,. · from c.ypicism. 1 . why many ' be~()tt:le so · sJudent life~! thlit nobody ACandidllte Class of 1980 . flve•man tree Dear Ms. Dowling, c/o the Mit9.r: I-. have beard many students praise tbe term abroad program. I always thought France would be fun but. now you bave doubled UiY pleasure •. I don't have to go through this outrageous lottery! Oh how I pity those who have to go through · this aggravation. Tempers are ri$ing tonight as more and lllore rooms are supposedly allotted to Freshmen. If I were staying here fall term, I would pitch a tent in J!lckson's Gardens but I've heard that you have already allotted the · corner campsites to Freshmen. My next optio11 would be to move into the Holiday Inn where 1 hear they are preparing a sign .. Welcome,. Class of 1980\ (because we· aU know there isn't going to be any room on campus for the !!Ophomores). My only fear is that you have already given the corner suites in the hotel to Freshmen. Well, actually I s:houldn~t complain, after alii don't have to worry about my living accommodations .. , That is if yo.u haven't allotted all of the· rooms in Rennes to Freshmen. Of cou.rse, when 1 return I would like you to take a few suggestions into .c()nsi<Jeration when you try to place me on campus: 1) If 1 am put in a five ... man tree in Jackson's Gardens, please don't make it an oak ... rm allergic to acorns. 2) Give me Freshman s~tus ... they seem to have the best rooms on campus for next year. 3) Save the !!now sculptures from Winter .CarnivaL. I'll live in one of them. 4) Rent the no parking . spa.ces to Winn.ebago campers... . Daddy's always wanted to buy me one. 5) Let's airlift the Alumni Gym off the swimming pool... l own a yacht. . hi conclusion,. 1 Wt>ul<t like to thank you for making. my life at Union so ... welL. shall we say baphazar<J(?). By the way, wh~re are you living nex~ year? Love and kisses, . Jenny ADideJI'Selir'• P.S.- You did a great on Parent's Weekend . P.P.S. ~ 1 know a tent~me1nt in Troy that ·needs a Ja11dlotd,. housing war To the Editor: ·, As a member of the class of '80, I have had to face administrative havoc my first year at Union which has left me extremely disillusioned. Now Ms. Dowling a11d the housing administration have chosen to give our class the shaft as well. As ·an incoming Freshman last year, 1 was ·faced with the possibility of not having my first choice room. Now as a pending Sophomore, I find l may get no room at all. LUckily, as a girl my odds are a bit better. Continued on Page 12 : Page9 : , FROM THE PRESIDENT'·$ DESK. At my weekly discussion with the editors of Concordy, I was asked about the situation on campus and, specifically, what the effect might be on the college. I recognized the sincerity of the question and its validity. I explained that I felt there was intense feeling on the campus. but not the kind of deep feeling that would have long-lasting negative effects. For several reasons, however, I could not give as full an explanation as I would have liked of our current status. Because some of the current issues revolve around people who have the right to privacy, those of us responsible for the college cannot deal as openly and fully as we would like with information. In the matter of the admissions office, for example, the records of current students are involved. l believe that it is improper, indeed immoral, for such personal information to be discussed publicly. A special faculty and student committee is now reviewing the situation. In the interim, it is wrong and prejudicial to characterize what has (or has not) happened. We must all have faith that the matter will be clarified and that a satisfactory explanation of events will be given to the campus. With respect to the events surrounding the suspension and reinstatement of Coach Harkness, I can at this time say only that the officers .of the Board of Trustees were fully informed of campus sentiment concerning the hockey issues when they reinstated Mr. Harkness. Some of the information needed for a full explanation of ensuing events is of a personal nature. But I can state categorically that the rumors and suspicions about my role are baseless and without foundation. The special trustee committee now has the responsibility of making this clear to the campus. As to my position on the long-range future of the college, I have worked with appropriate committees and administrators, I have communicated with the faculty and invited discussion, and I have put my ideas before the Board of Trustees. For those who disagree with my views on adult education or expanding the arts or strengthening lAM or making better use of the University the appropriate channels have been and are open. I have agreed publicly that unfortunate things have been said and done and have taken my full share of responsibility for them. I wish now that others would do likewise so that following the trustees' report and actions all can come together in support of the college and its future. Certainly the public airing of internal disputes now serves no interest except the destruction of an otherwise bright future for the college. As you all know. we have a special committee of trustees reviewing the state of the college. So far as I know, no vital information has been withheld from them. l have personally provided all information that is available to me. I would encourage all concerned with the college to withhold any judgments based on partial information. Much of the intensity of feeling at the present time is due to the lack of information, or surfeit ·Of misinformation. on the campus. I am confident that when further information can be released, the campus will feel much more secure about what has happened and what we can expect in the future. The present limitation on public statements is frustrating to all, but to no one more than myself. Information about campus events was frozen at a time when rumors and misinformation were at their peak. Now, those responsible for the college must act only with the total college and its future in mind. The privacy of individuals must be respected and events cannot be dealt with in isolation. For these reasons, I would hope that each. person at Union will reserve any final evaluation of recent events until the trustees have completed their review and all appropriate information is known. ! ' . ~·_');~I I) ;:{#:;-~~ ~·..,· ;,f \~• \~} ~~ N·\~ ~~ ;· Editor-in-Chief .................................................................... Danny Wojnilower Associate Editor .................................................................................. Ben Green ·News Editors ....................................................... Andy Mitchell, Matt Nagor,k:, Layout Editor ............................................................................... Joe Cappuccio Feature Editor .............................................................................. Sara Simmon' Sports Editors ....................................................... Debbte Poletto, Mart) Dolan Culture Editor ....................................................................... Fern Homenhalt Business Managers ................................................... Barbara Stern, \1arla Lu:-. Classifieds Editors ........................................... Pattt Moran, Martha Ruben,tcln Phc;>to Editors .............................................................. Jon Fle;cher, Steve (inll Photography Staff ......................................................... Ed Plat1, :.... etl Kromck. Cary !-everman, Vlarc Gotletb, Jell l·llrman Art Editor..................... . ......................................... l.e-ter \\et\ Poetry Editor .................. · ......................................... Dclannc Stageman Staff this week................ . .................... Paul c·a,trataro. Lmd; t\ranov., Andrei\ V. ~>oil. l.tnd.t '-.trauoc CONCORDIENSIS is .publi~hed eHr1 \\ edm\da) b) tht· ,tudt·nt bod) of l 1 nion College. Old G)m Hall. ~chmectad), ,,.,.. \or!.; to which Postal Forms .l57~ are directed. l'uhliratiun' Offi.-r: I he Jewish World Publications, 416 ~mith ~~ .. ~chenectod,. '. \ 12.10~ (370-5483). Entered in the Schenedlld) l'u't Offia a' \econd < Ia\ Matter. Subscription Rntl\ .1\ cent' prr rnp;, SIO. u \tar delht•red aD)\Iohere in the Lmlcd ~lat.-.

\ PqgelO. CQNC.ORJ>IEN$FS, (A(a;y,lJ, ,J9'17 . culture Films -This Wee·k On May I 3, 14,. and 15 the Film Committee · will present Stanley Kubrick's film version of Anthony Burgess' \A Clockwork Orange\ one of the most chilling science-fiction stories of all time. · Alex Burgess f DeLarge is a violent, drug--addicted 14-year-old ·who gets his kicks -by beating up drunks, raping women, and even attacking members of his own street gang. He is finally arrested and subjected to Pavlovian and Consent'', one of those treatment. I-le emerges as a model . \behind the· scenes of your citiz~n, but he has no will of his government in action\ films that own. Only Kubrick could have wete very popular in the late 50's made this film, and it is difficult -an!! early 60's. Director Otto .to imagine any actor other than Preminger took one of the most Malcom McDowell playing t~e popular novels of tbe day and part. of Alex, Shown Friday at . made ·a good, solid movie starring 10:00, Saturday and Sunday at Henry Fonda, Charles Laughton 7:00, 9:30, and 1~:00. and. Peter Lawford. Shown at On Tuesday, May 17, th~ film 7•00, 9:15, and 11:30. Committee will present \Advice . Chi Ps.i Lodge Prese.nts Come see .Billy Joel Saturday '(light At this very moment, the CHI PSI LODGE is being transformed into a giant extravaganza of Hollywood Nostalgia. At 9 p.m. on Saturday May 2tst, the LODGE's doors will open to what is expected to be·the largest costume party since Dean Martin's last- get-together. All the stars will be there - tough guys like Charles Bronson, Clint Eastwood) Geerge C. Scott, .and John Wayne; also seJS.y ladies like Elizabeth Taylor, Sophia Loren, Linda Lovelace, and Racquel Welch (John Holmes, Harry Reems, and Johnny Wadd may be looking around to more· than This Week Is Billy Joel satisfy some lucky Union coeds); Supercops Mannix, Kojjtk, SeFpico, and Charlie?s Angels will put their duties aside for this party. Even rock stars Frampton, This Saturday night at 8:30 the \Piano Man~· will be performing at the Achilles Rink. His appearance here at Union is part of a tour which filled Carnegie Hall on four consecutive nights. It's obvious that Saturd~y's concert will not be ordinary. His most recent album, Turnstiles has met with much praise from the critics. Some feel it will rival his gold album Piano Man in popularity. The band he is presently touring with are the same musicians who recorded Tumstiles with him; Richie Cannata on sax. and organ, Howie Emerson on acoustic, electric, slide and steel _guitars, Doug Stegmeyer on bass, and Liberty DeVitto on drums. They are truly a multi-talented l!roup of mustcians. Billy Joers. unique vocals and relaxed stage manner make for a surprisingly personable oerformance. Fontosticks It's a F ANT AS TICK love fable charm, the music of the play has and also a FANTASTICK been appealing to audiences from musical, in fact, the longest San Francisco to Khartoum for running musical in history. As if over 17 years now. you hadn't guessed - it's The The play was conceived and Fantasticks, coming to Union written by Tom Jones and Harvey May 16th-19th and 24th-27th at Schmidt, adapted from Les 8:30 in the Cabaret. Romanesques. Schmidt said that Due to the FANTASTICK in' writing the play, the authors fame of the play itself, and the found themselves ••breaking rules F ANT ASTI CK talents of the right and left ... and everything people involved in this began to fall into place.\ production, tickets are going The ·same thing can be said for quickly. If you want to see a Union's. pro~uction of The FANTASTICK show, get down: Fan~stlcks. Its the week. before· to the Student Acthities Office op~nmg, and the music, ~he fast to pick up your tickets. aut actmg; and the set are ?11 bemg b .. y u do let us tell you a . pulled together. All that 1s needed e1ore o , . d' little about The Fantasticks ... IS an au Ience. . . . So ... wouldn•t It be mce to sit The Fantasticks opened in May back and enjoy a story? You'll of 1960, and has been playing hear some good niusic, see some ever since. (According to the New · good acting, and watch a simple, Yorker, that means many days.) fantastick play. Think so? Good! The reviews of the play were Then come see The Filntasticksat mixed when they weren't critical. the Union College Cabaret on If you feei you need convincing, Jaggar, Tull, and the Who will be listen to his albums, especially the .there. The list goes on - who do latest (tune in to WRUC), and 1 you ?know that is going to be then decide to go. You'll be' there. . .. missing quite a performance if Last year. due to f~1hng to meet you don't. Advance tickets are on fire regulations (which have now . been met), the party was held at sale until Friday at Student the Girling Center. This- year the Activities; $4.00 with Union I.D., LODGE is proud to be the site of $6.00 for the public. At the door the 5th Annual Spring. Charity prices are $5.00 and $7.00. Party. Starting at the top of the Tudor-styled mansion there will be a Las Vegas style gambling casino, followed on the main floor with a Jfollywood dance band that will provide the entertainment. The refreshments, which will be on all floors, include 25 kegs of Chi Psi finest whic\1 will flow out of our never empty tap, Sunset Strip shot bars and gallons upon gallons of the awarQ.-wipning \Star-Studded\ Punch. Come to the party and see all the stars come out, and maybe the stars will recognize y9u. Whether you're Sonny or Cher, Taylor or Burton, or Laurel or Hardy, get your tickets early because once we reach our limit, all sales stop. The donation is $3.00 and. all proceeds go to the· National Hemophilia Foundation and National Dys'tonia Foundation, two truly special causes to the brothers of Chi Psi. . But - the play proved the May 16-19th and 24-27th. Call critics wron~. The simplicity and ' 370:.t.118 for ticket information. Fantasticks! (l. to r.) Nancy Fisher, Art Bragg, Alex Schaefer? Jon Clark, Jon Knudson, Lou Leatso, Robin Messing, Mitch Blair. Hillel to Feature Prof. Feingold The Union College Jewish New York University, Feingold Is Policy,. which is schedule9 for p.rofeuor Feingo~d has Student Organization .:._.Hillel _. the author of two major works: eatly-puotication~ · · participated in many International d h H . t · o t ·u present y· h. Politi\s or a· e• .. ue• r-··Jae H-·-e- 1's ·also the author of. s·e·ve· rat· confe~nces and is in demand as a · an t e ts ory ep . WI e . .. ...... • · Protiessor Henry L :--. Fel'ngold of Roosevelt Administration and the , articles in the Encyclopedia 1 e c t u r e r on asPects of . . .. . . . . contemporary American Je~ish Baruch College of CUNY on Holocaust, 1938-1945 and Zion In Judw~, mcludmg the ~ntnes. on history and politics. The topic of Monday. May 16th at 8:00 p.m., America: The Jewish Experience· f':'3~klin Roosevel~,. N1Xon, an~. Monday night's lecture will be in Social Science Building, room from its Colonial Days to the Kissu~~er. . In add1t1on, he has ... Roosevelt, the Holocaust, and 016. Present. He is ·currently at work . contributed many articles and American Jewry ... A graduate of Brooklyn on a volume entitled The Limits review essays to periodicals and The lecture is free. and open to CoiJege, Yiith a. docto~te from of EtbPlc .. fq•e.r;, Tilt;. Je'lis .. :· popu)~rjou~a:tal~.. . . the·pu~lic .. .. Un.ion Pharmacy 600 Union St. Men& Women · Student Needs 374-3605 A This i week th~ (et al} 4 we're gi' you get only fivt deliciou1 having ( and frie and tela begins. The Cohen, success. The Stop pal Rosene Are D• Nott fr It's about Rosene taken l the st< charact into H~ ever Ui on. It's a a come and a The charac1 'radica stems J casting list of by whi photo perfort people Chalif1 Arn stages. acts o all d extrav film 1 muncl served dawn menu. So ultim~ of pe West cost l careet sleepi1 erij:ny~ rangit

at nee the the all the or get The ruly s of . ' CONCORDIENSI8, ]Jay 11, 1977 -· Androcles and the Lion Opens Wednesday This is it, Union! This is the week that Androcles .and -the Lion (et al~ come! And wha~ a deal we're giving you ... Where else can you get a hot and ·cold buffet for only five dollars? And after your delicious, leis1,lrely dinner - after having eaten your fill of beef tips and fried chicken ~ settle back and tc,:lax, because then the show begins. . The play directed by Bruce Cohc,:n, promises to be a huge success. The lighting, done by Peter Ctames, is (as Us1,1ai) great; the stage is original and fantastic in· its design; and, of course the acting is sup·erb, Matt Lubart is the lion. Remember,. dear audience, that · the :performance you see on stage is the result of weeks of rehearsal, and hard wot~ (all orga,iized by Meg Holzel, stage manager). The actors, the director, the designers and builders and technicians, and especially Meg, have been putting their time and their effort and their talent into this show. Now ... an Audience is Needed! We're only asking that you come. and enjoy yourself at Union's first dinner thea:tre. Run over to Student Activities right now, and tell Mrs. Marra you want your ticket for Androcles and the Lion. (Please.) Don~t delay. Act now. Or better still - come see .Androcles and his lion act Wednesday, Thursday, or Friday night at 8 p.m. (Dinner starts at 6.) It Isn't By Shakespeare the play is written by Tom Stoppard and is eptitled Rosencr.antz and . Guildenstern Are Dead,.and it's playing in the Nott from May 20th-23rd. for Union students; -all other students, Union College faculty and staff $1.00, and general admission is $2. Call 370-6153 for ticket information. Page 11 culture Loveliest of trees, the cherry now Is hung with bloom along the bough, And stands about the woodland ride Wearing white for Eastertide. Now, of my threescore years and ten, Twenty will not come again, And take from seventy spring~ a score, lt only leaves me fifty more. And since to look at things in bloom Fifty springs are little room, About the woodlands I wiil go To see the cherry hung with snow. - A. E; Housman Send your poems to Delanne Stageman, Fine Lines Editor, box. 1738. Any legible work is welcome. Please give your name and phone no.; poems will be printed unsigned if requested. Let's hear from YOU! It's not about Hamlet. -it is about two minor characters ~ Rosencrant~,and Guildenstern- taken from the play Hamlet. It's the story of those two minor characters,. and how they rnudd.Je into Hamlet's life and out without ever und~rstanding what's going on. Bill Pike, Rob Imrie, Gary H.aber, Rich Amirian, Allison Donenfeld, Ben Dibble, Dave Robinson, Chuck Holleman, Dan Rosenbai.un, David Schroeder, David Dunham and Dave Beguin ~ but as wbo i·s an unanswered question. We. can tell you that the lighting was designed .by Mike Affinito and Andy Koblenz, and the costumes by Betsy Mastrianni. Bruce Cohen is the musical director for the show, and he will be playing live improvised music during the performance. Art Historian IJeetures It's a play about death. It's also a comedy, something of a thriller, and a striking piece of work. The director, Joe Millet, characterizes his production as 'radical.' Part of that radical aura stems from his choice to keep his casting secret. There will be no list of which character is played by which actor. There will be no photo displays till after the performance. The following people are appearing: Chris Chalifoux, Roger Summerhayes, The play itself won a Tony Award, as did another of Stoppard's plays, Jumpers. Dirty Linen, by the same author, is presently playing on Broadway. And remember, Rosencrantz and Guildenstern will soon be playing in the Nott at Union College. The box office in the Nott opens Wednesday, May I Hh, and will be open l-5, weekdays. Ticket prices are $. 75- Noted art historian and author John Rewald spoke last Friday evening in SS 016 on \Visits with Artists in Europe.\ As part of the Walter G. Baker lecture series, Prof. Rewald is the author of such books as The History of Impressionism, Post- Impressionism from Van Gogh to Gauguin and Maillol. Having received his doctorate from the Sorbonne, Prof. Rewald has been curator of the John Hay Whitney Collection and has taught at the University of Chicago. Since 1971, he has been associated with the Graduate Center of the City University of New York. More than an art historian, ·o· ·. UNION COLLEGE PUS RESTAURANT Prof. Rewald has known or knows many of the most significant artists of this cen:tury. Very few people have had the privilege of knowing such artists as Matisse, Braque, Ernst and Picasso. Prof. Rewald's talk was accompanied by slides he had taken while visiting the artists in their French and English homes, thus giving the audience a rare and intimate VieW of these artists. Included on the \tour\ were Renoir's palatial country residence and Monet's water-lily gardens. Sculptor Len Chadwick's rambling Victorian Gothic dwelling was also shown. The entire intricate interior is painted . white as an effective background ' for sculpture. Other highlights were Braque's Paris studio where he works on several paintings at once and Matisse's works consisting of paper cut-outs arranged in floor- to-ceiling compositions. Pictured with the latter artist was his ··Matisse cat.\ The studio and home interiors (with Prof. Rewald's comments) gave a valuable insight into the artists' lives. Although most of the scenes appeared rather messy by non-artist standards, filled with plaster, paints and canvases, they are the crucible of artistic creation. NO ITALIAN NIGHT .THURS. u .~ T1t) BECAUSE OF DINNER THEATER D.L.T. AT c ~CHENE.CTADY, N.Y. 1:1308 REGULAR DINNER SERVED I-10LLOW FRIDAY & SATUR.DAY STEAK AND BREW Art Histori~n, Rewald Come eat and drink before you see Billy Joel - you will enjoy the concert much more W eststock Nears Arrangements are in their final stages. There are no less than 18 acts offering their talents to the all day, all night Weststock extravaganza. A Bar-B-Cue, the film Woodstock, free beer, free munchies, and a donut breakfast served with tequila sunrises at dawn ate also on the Weststock menu. So get psyched. This is it The ultimate event, we expect hordes of people to camp in front of West on May 28-29. There's no cost for this once in a college career event. Just bring your sleeping bags artd prepare to enjoy~ • ~Union'.s ~ . fines.t .. , tal~n.ts ranging from the swing of the Union Jazz Ensemble to the fifties beat of thaL alumni crew, Chet Arthur and the Flaming Aces. All the stars of Union on a 20 by 28 ft. stage bathed in lights under the stats. Be there for the time of your college life. An important . ._,ote, all 1 performers are required to be at a meeting, Wednesday, May 18; .at 4:30 in West Library. De prepared to explain what type of llct you ba\e technical needs, how long ; you'd like to play a1ld at what time in the evening. A schedule for the program will be formulated at this meeting. Contact Matt Briel (Box 134, 370-6401) if you cannot 'attend: Happy Hour Friday 4:30-6:30 All House Drinks $.60 FREE CHEESE & CRACKERS Maurice B. Graubart & Sons ---=---------...;--··The Jay St. Jeweler' 'Serving Union For Three.· Generations' t66Jay St. Qaalty Service tl Fine WonbUQ'iihlp ' .. ' .. BUSINESS OPPORTUNITY Stuff Envelopes $25.00 PER HUNDRED Immediate Earnings Send $1.00 To: Envelopes Dept~ 2 2 6 102 Charles Street Bost•11,Mass .. 0~114.

•' Continued from Page 9 my heartfelt sympathy is extended to the men of .rriy class. The fact is that my peers have felt intimidated to cheat in the housing lottery in order to he assured of a room. As with the prisoners' dilemma, whe.n one person starts to cheat you feel compelled to do the same or else you get screwed even worse. When a president wants to send troops to a certain area and he realizes the normal channels are closed, Congress won't declare war, he can send a limited number of troops over anyway under emergency powers without even declaring war. Ms. Dowling seems to have applied this idea to her housing schedule. When her proposition sent the campus into an uproar, it was disposed of and we were given word that the only alterations that would be made would be the fraternities and sororities. Now we find that percentages of dorms are being left open for Freshmen instead of filling in the available places at the end with them. All l can say is that Ms. Dowling, you should be in politics and you know what most people's view of politicians is! Patti Chaifetz concerned Over a month ago I wrote a letter admonishing the student body for lack of an organized lobby. At that time the biggest problems were hockey and comp-eds. Now the student body in general and the Class of ·so in particular have become aroused over the latest dorm arrangements by Housing. The student body in resting on its laurels after the Housing Office capitulated to student demand and removed their proposals for Freshman dorms are now finding out Housing is taking steps for the assurance of Freshman dorms in Union College in the 1978- 79 year. It has come to my attention form the Housing Director herself that a policy has been initiated stating no freshmen sball be roomed in a double or suite with upperclassmen. With reservations for freshmen rooms in over half of South and West, in twenty suites in Fox and three floors of Davidson, and by pulling freshmen out of Lenox. Road, added to rooms already picked by Juniors and Seniors, an overwhelming majority of the class of •so are being shipped to Webster and particularly Lenox Road. The rub in this freshmen- · upper class policy is the lack of acknowledgement by either the students I have talked to or to the Student Forum. The blame for the omission of this important piece of information from both the Student Fourm, or in those pink slips sent out by Housing ~has to be placed on the Housing Director and the Housin~~: Committee. Therefore for the purpose of informing students on campus issues and of expressing the student's view on those issue11 and taking necessary action on behalf of the students, I would like with the help of concerned students and other members of the campus community to bring about the existence of the Concerned Union Student's Society (CUSS). CUSS would provide student reaction to a campus policy, issue, or decision through interaction with the involved : instruments of the College, work with these instruments to bring about a viable solution and accurately inform the campus community of solutions as well as the original issue, policy ()r decision, and to place student suggestions into consideration and possible action by those organs. My view of cuss is of helping the system and the students get t()gether, and not as an agitator or rumor.spewer .. If any concerned member of the student b()dy agrees there should be an organized lobby and is will~ng and able to work on making it an effective organ of the students, please contact me at 370-6449. . Rich Budd rebuildin·c trust To the Editor: In the four years I've been at Union College, I hav~ .never felt I had a reason to write a letter for everyone to read. There were plenty of large problems and injustices, but with each of these, I always felt that there were people working together to understand a:nd alleviate the problems. Somehow, that feeling is gone. This campus has lost itself in a lack of respect for the individual and itself. This lack of respect stretches through the s t ud.e n t body, administration and staff, and is generated by the same people. People seem to have · lost sight of the fact that everyone else here is human with human feelings, mistakes, hopes, and capabilities. Many things point out this lack of respect including the uproar over housing, vandalism, the hockey-anti- hockey fighting, dissatisfaction with the selection of RA's and Gatesmen, lies within . the system, etc. The housin.g situation shows a lack of communication and of attempts to understand. There was little explanation of what an open lottery entails and also little attempt made to understand !tow hard it is to operate an open lottery. There was a lack of tespeet by the students in realizing that no one is out to \cut their throats\; !Uld a lack of respect for ' the st:t~dents by the Housing Office and. Housing Committee to thoroughly explain the way a student will be choosing a room. Instead, it seemed each closed themselves off from the other and sat, bitched, and hollered without trying any form of compromise. I view one of the most painful, vandalism. Four or five times this year, West's fire system was broken by someone smashing the control panel. It strikes home with me; I lost one ()f my very best friends in a d'()rmitory fire. She died of smoke· inhalation after she pulled tJ.e fire alarm. The system worked for everyone else. Have Jleople lost their appreciation of something that's put-there to help them? Hockey{ ·anti hockey arguments have gotten to the . po~t of $te:reotyping, name- calling, and physical threat$. Both sides .are human with feelings that can be hurt, opinions that should be spoken. and attributes that should be recognized. Try to understand and respect what is being said; ftx what is wrong, realize what is good, and come to a compromise. Union must rebuild the trust within itself that once made it a warm school. That means that facts must be acceoted and not twisted With hus~ notes and misleading statements. That means that people have to accept the capabilities of their peers to choose leaders. People nave to accept the ability of the community to appreciate all aspects of a situation and decide on the best course to take. People have to relearn the meaning of trust. All of this may seem like idealistic preaching, and of course it is. However, I've seen Union be a very great school and it was not individuals or the activities that made it great. It came from the fact that people worked together, trusted each other, respected each other, and were able to compromise for something greater than their individual needs. Whether we enj 0 y the prospects or not, we have to realize that we have, to co-exist in the same community; a community that gets its essence from the interactions of the individuals! James Tremlett misunderstanding To the Editor: This letter is written in hopes of clearing up some misunderstandings and making the appropriate apologies to the members of Men's Glee Club in regard to the article written by Janet Chapman in the May 4 issue of Concordy. This article· was not written to paint any type of adverse picture of the relationship between· the Men's and Women's Glee • Clubs. Its intent was to ~Q.ow how the Women's Glee Club strive~, from the low keyed experienCe and reputation of any new group on catnpus, to attain expanded and increased activity and quality. In no way was this article intended to depict the Men's Glee Club as an obstacle to the Women's Glee Club. They have not held us back or prevented our growth. · We also did not intend to make this a feminist or equal rights issue. The only factors involved in this matter were the youth and inexperience of the Women's Glee Club as a new organization on campus. It was hoped that the article would show that time and hard work was what was needed by the Women~s Glee Club to reach the level of quality desired. Ms. . Chapman is not to blame for these misunder- standings and misconceptions. Unfortunately, on a campus of this size, issues tend to be \created and with the enforcement of Title IX, Women's Glee Club became an open ta~get. However, it cannot be forgotten that there are physical differences between the two .clubs which prevent certain · forms of equality and comparison of one group to the other. The two clubs prodUCe different sounds, sing different music and demand different disciplines. This is not to say that one group is inferior to the other. It merely suggests that the two cannot be equated ot compared in all aspecis. This article was not meant to draw attention to any issue other than the mere fact that after time and a period of growth, the Women's Glee Club has reached a level of experience where they now ;deserve equal opportunity and that has been granted through the acquisition of a full-time director, and comparable concert schedules and budgets. Until now, it was the youth and inexperience of the group that prevented this. The Women's Glee Club has a high respect for the Men's Glee Club and their director and are grateful to them for their support. It is with great sincerity that I offer my apologies to those members of the Men's Glee Club who were offended by any misunderstanding created and stress that any suggestion of suppression or equal rights was strictly unintentional. . Sincerely, LaUI'a Masailo President, Women's Glee qub Editor's note: Concordiensis reporter Ja,net Chapman received her iriformation in an interview with Laura Masailo. freshman applauded To the Editor: Andrew Mitchell~s editorial of April 27 really shed light on what i~ really going on. Seeing it from a Freshman perspective was quite unusual. As a night school student who is in close contact with the day students, I was amazed at his comments: Why did he go all out in blasting some of the things that have gone;: on here since he entered in September? What can be done to have unity at Union College? What is. to be done to encourage faculty-student interaction? Can the Housing Department meet earlier in the year to discuss dorm changes? · Can honesty and candor, two words that are heard a lot, be more than just cliches? If we are to improve; let's have ACTION on campus, not APATHY! This would · probably make us mote united. By May 197~, may much of this rhetoric be a reality on campus. Yours truly, Geon~e R. Rosner Where Were You When ••• ? To the 'Eclitor: Approximately a year ago, I won elective office on the Student Forum as Secretary. Many of the issues which have come before the Forum during the past year have had a profound impact . on every interest group and constituency related to the College. As these issues surfaced, the Student Forum met and discussed the possible alternatives and solutions relating to the issues. All of these meetings were publicized ahead of time using a variety ·of mediums.. Announcements were made on WR UC, in Concordiensis, through flyers Which RAs were s~pposed to post, and in ••what the Hen•s Going On?\. In addition. RAs were asked to inform the Forum when they· were having .floor or dorm meetings so that a representative of the Student Forum could attend iti order .to both gather and furnish information about prevailing issues. The Student , Forum has been accused of being unresponsive to the valnes of the Student Body; it is being accused of making decisions Wi!hout taking ·into account public opinion. 1 suppose we could have done public opinion polls on the issues. However, these tend to be discredited through a variety of criticisms. Hence, it was my belief that the only way to know what students were thinking was through direct communication. U nfottun- ately, RAs did not inform us of meetings, and studen:ts did not come to meetings. meetings. With elections only a week .away, and many students seeking office, 1 think it only fitting 'that they answer one question. Where were you when the issues were beit~g discussed m the Student Forum?' Or, putting it a different way, Why didn't you attend Forum meetings when you were concerned about the issues which were under discussi()n? Those running for office this year say that they have solutions to problems, but it is more than likely that they do not have the complete picture (IConcordiensis simply does not have the \time or man- pQwer to go into each issue in depth; the Forum does). I am not trying to accuse the candidates of being apathetic or opportunistic;_ I simply feel that it is ironic that the Student Forum is accused' of being an ineffective clique of decision makers by people who have no idea of how the Forum works and who have never attended a Forum meeting. What they have resorted to is a normal, and somewhat trite political t~J.ctic. So, when you see a candidate ask him where he was when ... help! Respectfully, P~ter Shore To. the Editor: I am an inmate incarcerated at the Attica Correctional Facility, serving a sentence of 25-years to life. r am in the process of appealing my conviction, but the law library here is so bad that I can;t' research my case properly. The conditions here aren't very suitable to do the correct type of research. The reason I am writing to you is because you are the editor of the school paper and that gives· you access to all the other students. l want to make a request to you to see if you can run an ad in your paper for me to see if any of the students would like to take on a project by helping me to perfec~ and research my case so that I may be able to submit a supplementary brief. I am quite sure that they could benefit from the experience. The case is a homicide case and I have all the trial transcripts. Please sir, let me know if you can help me or if you can't. Thank you. Sincerely, 1'helMiore llo1Vatd~ 76A2921 P.O. Box 149 Attica, !'i, Y. 14011 - SOl Contim optimis1 sionals, businesf hockey We own framew~ work respectil changes the stw as both taking proposi selicitin My< that I~ the stu< trying pos'Sibl sentimo l~islat feedbac Wisoff To tba As becom rep reS~ statem the ti myselJ regard these decide confid make forth LO 1 • • 43~

a ic- ly a er n- in of of _ve ic. ly, if . CONCORDJENSJS, May 11, 1977 -El-ections, Cont,in·ued- Soph. Rep. Co-ntinued Continued from Page 7 optimists, pessimists, pre-profes- sionals, English majors, engineers, businessmen,_ arts patrons and hockey fans. W-e must each consider our own interests within the framework of the college and work in a constructive, respectable manner to seek changes. It is the responsibility of the student government to serve as both an amplifier and a filter,. taking in student ·sentiment, proposing legislative changes, and seliciting feedback. My only campaign promise, is that I will attempt to work within tb.e studen~ government structure, trying to work as effectively as possible, taking in your sentiment, · proposing your l~islation, and soliciting your feedback. Remember, . Andrew Wisoff fot representative. Tom Nalli To the Class of 1980: and the good of Union College. In matters of great concern to the student body and to the college as · a whole, I will endeavor to ascertain the feelings of you, my classm~tes, . through informal conversations 'or through formal opinion polls. I can promise you that · my decisions as yout representative to the Student Forum will represent the feelings of the sophomore class as a whole and will be the most responsible decisions possible. I ask you to vote for me, tom Nalli, on May . 17. I will be .. , as effective, as . honest, and as communicative a class representative as is possible. Please help to make my efforts at becoming your class repre- sentative to the· Student Forum successful. Thank you. Tom Nalli as does our academic program, we must set our priorities. Areas such · as our Arts department and library should receive the same amount of concern as does our athletic and stronger academic programs. Expansion in all areas can mean wonderful things for us but must be done with the utmost cQncern for our academic reputation. Unfortunately my views will be but a whisper among the cries of the multitudes without your vote. Thank you. t\''.~. •···-· ·'-& Matt lubart My only true aim in running for Soph. R~p. is to make Union one of the finest Liberal Arts colleges in the nation. The two things that I feel deserve our utmost attention in the near Terr-y Weber future are an expanded arts department and a set of academic Hello. My name is Terry Weber levels of excellence for ourselv~s and I'm a Freshman History- and our applicants, that reflect Political Science major from our potential. -Cleveland, Ohio. I'm presently I will do all within my power to running for Class Representative help the college realize these goals and will briefly state a few of my whether I am elected or not. At views as frankly as I am able. Union, unlike most schools, the My primary concern if elected students have a strong voice ip will be to protect Union's top ~the decisi.on.,making process. I academic .reputation as each issue there~ore 1~plor~ all stude~ts to is confronted by the forum. As a exercase theu option to vote 10 the varsity athlete myself and one upcoming election regardless of~ who would love to see Union's where that vote falls. Thank you. athletics receive tb.e same acclaim Matthew H. Lubart Page 13· --classitieDs Speakers Forum presents Allen Funt, 2 MORE FEMALES needed to ,ubkt a Wednesday, May JS, 8:30 p.m. Mem~rial 3 bedroom apartment over the 'ummer: Chapel. , 32-1 Seward Place (1st floor); mo,tl) furnished; 3 bedroom>; living and dining Seniors - Order your Union Book now rooms; large kitchen; bath \\ -.hov.~r. Call - in the Studems Activities Office. 374-2957. Seniors Your graduation announcements are in the St\-ldent Activities Office. Please pick them up. APARTMENT TO SV.Bl.E'I Summer '77, 1041 Uni\er~ity PliH:e. do'e to campus. 4 bedrooms, kitchen, In 111g room, dining room_ Contact: T~ri. Heck)' or Jody 370-6?2~· FOR SALE: 5 cubic re!rigcratnr. lull 1 freezer ~- automatic defrost. e~celknt itememlter the Economics Department 1 condition. Standing table with 3 bulb . Picnic this Friday, May 13. The picnic will lamp, Comfortable chair. Call Debb1 6595_ RiDE NJ.i;EDED to . long Island (Nassau) on Friday, May 13. Please call Rqnny London at 6481. be held at the Girling Center from 2:30 on. Hamburgers, hot dogs, beer and salads will MEET THE CANDIDATE~ be served and there will be softball games, FOR STUDENT TRUSTEI<: volleyball, lacrosse sticks, frisbees, etc. At a Bagels and Lox Brunch, spon~ored Please bring musical instruments, softb~ll by Jewish Student Organinnion-Hilkl gloves, or whatever. If a11yone needs a ride Sunday, May 15 at II a.m. in tile Kmhcr _ call the Economics Department secretary Kitchen (Davidson Coop). Admission: . 75 (6228) or Becky Kershner (372-6681). (JSO-Hillel Member), $1.5() (non-memb~r), - Tickets are available from ariv member of , the ·Economics Department or. the Indian silver and turquo~se jewelry will Department Secretary. In the unlikely ~e. d1splayed ~y Marcus m front ot or event-that it rains Friday, tile picnic will be tn~tde Carnegie T~ursday. Ma) 12 and rescheduled for Wednesday, May 18. Fnd~y. Come see th1s very elegant display, LOST: A lightweight blue sweater-jacket at the Sigma Chi Clambake. If found, please call Rich 377-4691. Dwight Philup, assistant profe~sor of economics at Union Cellege, will give a free public lecture on The Determinants of Banlt Profitability, Thursday. May 12 at 4 p.m. in Room 207 of Union College\ Bailey Hall. Professor Phaup will report preliminary results of studies to 1denti!} the determinants of bank profitab1hty. examining the influence of asset and liability composition and operating ratio,_ Professor Pnaup has been a member ot the Uni<m faculty since 1972. Profi!!Ssor Bog!lan Denitch of Queens and Columbia Universities will speak on Euroeommunism; Communism with a new face? (In France, Italy & Spain) on Wednesday, May 18 in Soc. Sci. Auditorium (SS-016) at 8 p.m. All are invited. Professor Bogdan Denitcn is the 'foremost international authority ou Eurocommunism, the new face of communism in West Europe. A Marxist URGENTLY NEEDED: and an active Democratic Socialist, he has Under~lassmen , willing to work at interviewed leading officials of the both/either Semor Sa1l ~n I hursday, June Eurocommunist parties. His latest book, 9 and/or S~mor cockta.d party on htday, Leptimation of a Revolution (Yale June 10, m Jacksons Garde~~· Abo University Press) has been nominated for needed are underclassmen to prov1de mus1c_ the most prestigious honor in Political ~preferably folk) for cocktail party. 11 Science, tile 1977 Woodrow Wilson Prize. mterested, please coutact Mrs. Marra or Pre-reclstrauon matenats tor fall term Box ()813 . 1977-78 will be available in the Office of the Registrar, Rm. 2, Administration Building, beginning Friday, May 20. Students are urged to promptly secure their copy of these. materials. Students who do not plan to return to Union for the fall term, except for graduating 1 seniors, must immediately give notice of their plans. to the Office of the Dean of Students. Potential December graduates should inform the Office of the Registrar of their plans to finish their studies at the end of fall term. Students should confer with Faculty Advisers during the week of May 23-27. Some departments may announce special arrangements for advising. Please be alert for such announcements. Course requests are due at the Office of the Registrar not later than Monday, May 30th. A ten doUu ($10.00) late fee will be usessed thereafter. Euaene Eoyang, Professor of Chinese ' and Comparative Literature at Indiana University will speak on Chinese Oral Literature Wednesday, May 18, at 8:30 p.m. in the Lower Hale House Lounge. Anyone interested in sharing an 1pattment starting Aug. or September in Boston, please contact Sheila 377-8470_ Annual Delta Phi Volleyball Tournament Saturday. May 21st. Play begins at 9:30 a.m. Entry deadline Friday May 20. Small entry fee required. all teams welcome. The Spring Red Cross Blood Drive will be Wednesday and 1 Thursday, May 18 and 19 from II to 5 at the Fieldhouse (new location). Appointments can be made in Student Activities. - Theta Delta Chi will award a keg to the fraternity or dorm Boor with the highest percentage of donors. As a part of my attempt to become your sophomore class representative I here make my statement of purpose. Here is not the time to debate or commit myself to any specific stands regarding certain issues becau~e these issues will be debated and decided as they occur. I am confident that I will be able to make the best decisions possible for the good of the cl~~:ss of 1980 Would you like to usher for the play R~,~~~eocnntz and Guildenstern, and see a great performance for free? If so, then sign --------------------------------------------------'-~ up in the Green Room of the Nott Memorial by Wednesday, May 18, 1977. LOST: A baseball with no means of identification on it ·(no name). If anyone .finds it, please contact Jan at 6143. Last seen on Daley North Field. Thank you. . : Atpi' :Liquor ·c...tw J.Jquon-: W\\-'- Co~ . 75i~ EASTQN AVL . COIUfU: JACKSON LOWEST PRlCES ALU),WED IN . N.Y. STAll:· .. MADISON'S TYPING - SERVICE . I. • .Reports • Mariuleripts 1· • Thesis • RtsQRie& \ I Prompt Service Reasonable Rates 433 Libert} St. . 3?2~5141 • ' I ••. iSdltiHC:tid1· t ;, ' , I'· i ! / Only three ushers needed per night, four - performances - so sign up now! LOST:· A set of keys (about a dozen on Anyone interested in working in the a ring). Lost at last Saturday's Lacrosse , Box Office for the play Rosencrantz and game. If found, please contact Matt at Guildemtem sign up today in the Green 6143. Thank you. Room of the Nott Memorial. We need you! FOR SALE: 10-speed Peugeot bike uo- APT FOR RENT:-Any three persons or 8, 21-inch frame. $100. Contact Neil 430 less. Fully furnished. Summer rsublet •only. West. . 3 bedrooms, living room, kitchen and bath.\ RIDERS w ANY.ED: -1 0 N.J. on One Qlock from campus, parking facilities Thutsdav. Call.leff 377-9052. for up to 3 cars. All this and more for only FOR SALE· 1 pair EPl- 50 speakers. $80/monthfperson. Call393- 599 1. cxc. cond., Mu~t sell. $60. Call John _370- 6815.

.,-_:_.;.. Poge 14 CQNCOR,DIENSlS, Ma;y 11 1 1977 5porte First man Larry Linett displays winning form. Tennis Wins, Lo:ses One On Monday May 2, the netmen crushed arch rival RPI 7\2. Although rain forced the match indool\$ it made no difference to the Dutchmen as they had control of the meet from the .start even on foreign turf. Playing at the first position, Larry Linett was the first to end his mat'fh, coasting to a straight-set victory. Captain Dennis Lindenberg was next, reporting a similar winning score~ Doug Rice and Paul Wantuck, playing 3rd and 6th · singles, respectively, also won easily. The otherwise hapless Engineers did manage to make the meet somewhat interesting by winning matches at the 2nd and 5th positions - Union's Jon Levin- Epstein and Mitch Brand fell victim. The doubles were all a ••could-h.ll.ve-gone-eithet-way\ Dutchmen, however; as the teams decision in three sets. Linl;ienberg, of Linett-Rice;, MarJe Burnett- Levin-Epstein, Wantuck, and Roy Lindenberg and Wantqck ... l\tand Lipson all went down tt;> defeat in toyed · with their opponents order; also. The only bright spot Without losing a set. At this point f~r the netters was at the third in the season, the netters had. a. position where Doug Ric~ .. won a winning record, 3~2, with .several· grueling·· three set match frot~~ a tough opponents yet to ct;>me. f()tmer ranked junior player. The winning record was short- Union took only one of the lived, however, as the racquetll).en th..ree doubles matches, as Linett- fell to powerful Albany State, 7-2, Rice .teamed up· to take the lst the following day. Travelling to doubles with surprising ease. play a school 5 . times their size The Dutchmen's 2nd home and on courts that should require p.tatch of the year was to have ice-skates oil Which to play, the taken place on the home courts Dutchmen held their own and two days ago but as usu11I Mother even State's coach Bob Lewis Nature spoiled it again. Hartwick admitted that the meet was much will just haiVe to ·wait another closer than the final score week to lose, as the meet was indicated. postponed until next Monday At the first position Linett lost (May 16). Softball lm proves Record 'Chere IS a di ffe-ren,;e!!! r;;;;;TI•-~ \\\.'li PREPARE FOR: MCAT•DAT•LSAT•SAT GRE • GMAT•OCAT • VAT by DIANA GAZZOLO The Union College Women's softball team now stands at 5-3 after two wins over Siena and their longtime rival RPI. The game against RPI, possibly the last home game of the season if it does not stop · snowing, was played with extreme confidence. Again t!te girls pulled it all together with some good solid hitting· and excellent heads up ball playing. The home run tigers were let loose in this game, when four home runs were chalked up by Judy (Babe Ruth) Driscoll, Donna (Socko) Sockell, Cathy (the Hustler) Reals and Liz (Bear) Yager. The birthday efforts of Cathy Reals contributed heavily towards her five RBI's. Cathy Lett and Debbie Swart both going 3 for 4 helped those runs cross the plate. The team'.s batting average was . 727 with 27 hits in 33 at bat. As for defense, Nora (Goldy) Goldstein, Pat Shaffer, Diana Gazzolo, Donna Sockell, Gwen Young and Debbie Slotoroff helped keep the runs down in the outfield while the infield performed with the same precision. Everything clicked again for those dynamic ladies of the diamol,ld, , offensively and .. defensively. The final score was 17-12 bringing the record to 4-3. Siena's game, in short, was the finest that the U Coil Diamond ladies played this year. Many important factors were involved in the team playing so well, specifically Liz Yager's pi~ch.ing, and Perky Francis, Gwen Young and Judy Driscoll's batting. Liz Yager's pitching was really fired up, giving up ten hits; two walks, and two strike outs, keeping Siena's runs down to two. The team's batting average was .545 in this game. The final score of the game was 19-2, making the team record 5-J. The game scheduled for May 9th against Albany State was rained out. It may be rescheduled forThursday May 12. If not~ the Garnet Girls' season ends on Wednesd·ay against Berkshire· Community College. However if the game on Thursday is on, come out and cheer Union's softball team on. Be there-aloha. ENROLLING NOW '-EARLY BIRD\ CLASSES For July LSAT & Summer Classes for Fall MCA.T Our broad cange of programs. prov.1des an umbre/Ja of test- Ing know-how that enables us to offer the best preparation avail3ble, no matter which course is taken. Over 38 years. of experience and success. Small classes. Voluminous home study materials. Courses that are constantly up- dated. Permanent centers open days, evenings & week· ends ,all year.. Complete tape facilities for review of class lessons and for use of supplementary materials. Make-ups for missed 'lessons at our cen-ters. ECFMG • FLEX NAT'L MEDICAL & DENTAL BOARDS Flexible Programs & Hours Brooklyn . 212-336-5300 ~ r.ttlll Manhattan . . 212-838-4454 ll'§l &3 -n. Loog •~\\ 516-538•4555 C .. i -p N New Jersey 201 -846·2662 IWI . Outtute NY Slate Only 800 221 . 98 . •o EDUCATIONAL CENTER LTD CALL Toll Free • • It · · 1675 E 16 sr Bklyn . . NY 11229 ... C.en 11111 re r., .n M al 1 or 1 u 1 s 1 c 1111 rr ,-. , ndlliug 1 an 1 o. 111111 sw rr ze 11 an d ·- TEST PREPARATION·- • SPECIALISTS SINCE 1938 • • ~ • I '• ' ' ' > ' A ) 0 - o < ' o I .classifiebt; SuziiDne Dowling had an axe; She gave her students forty whacks. When she saw what she had done, She gave them another forty-one. The West College Liberation Anny There was a young lady who lived in a shoe. · She h1d so many students, she didn't know what to do. She put the freshmen all in one shoe. What were the upperclassmen to do? The students protested they hated her guts. She said she'd postpone it, no U's and's or hut's, And we all belived her. I euess we're all nuts. -the. WCLA Missy - Hope your birthday was the best. Here's to another terrific year with you. Love, your ice cream buddy. Delta Chi: Congrats!!! You really got your nuts together at your Peam,lt Party last Tuesday. Looking forward to the third annual party. Hope you can get more nuts.i Hope more show up. _D. Chi Fan 1 Doua R.: Need a female companion to go to the concert with? P.S.: When are you giving me my notebook back'! Fuad: Enjoy your ice cream? Sbed: Your baby missed you. Love and I kisses, Daddy. , Laura: Don't get lost in the ocean? I Mom: . Do you know where your children will be, Mon. night? Your· odark haired daughter has been having these ; dreams aboui spaghetti that .has been bent (don't ask me how).' AlSo, what did it cost to have the couch re-upholstered? l just can't understand what happened to it. Here il is - ItS in the series of 2,00 I L. Jokes, \Take my roommate, Please!\ Wili the penon who wrote the 1111icle concerning the general sloppiness of Union co-eds please identify himself so that we can all look to him for a shining example of how to attire ourselves on campus. To J.S., D.'B., and all you other people who have recently accused me of having become a nerd, throat or whatever, lt'!i not . true at all. And to prove it I want to party with you tonight (if I get my paper typed before dinner so I can finish my reading by 9:00.) Annie M.D., - I'm really excited about our new apartment. But I think I should warn you, I have latent homosexual tendencies which are excited by the sight of your cute little tushey in sweat pants. Can't wait till next year! A,B. KIS - .Penn's gain is my loss. Your friend always, SRL Dennis- I'm upping the penalty to 20,- a· shot. Stop stealing my thoqghts! A.T.O.V. John P. Hoaan - I ollly want to play with you this summer. Besides, my· reputation could QOt handle any more rumors! You'll make the best sophomore rep. I'm always behind you. More and , More, Daney Mitch ..... Only·one more page to go ... Mo!D & Dad - Good to see you! - Ed Guys - I suppo~ you never did it With Michllel W. - Welcome to Union! a bag over your head? Allbamed College. pl - Jailbait! Roy - I wonder (ZZZZZ) why (ZZZ) you're not being (ZZZZZZZ) (YAWN) saved today. L.L ..... 20 yeats and 20 days.,. what a record -· B.B. Dear Dad - Otherwise known to some You Too Cart .Be Saved Today. Old as our localltaliim Stallion- When I first Chapel, 9:30. saw the movie I couldn't see the Miss Autos - You haven~t said anything about the newscast that I haven't done in 5 w.~ks. P.oes that mean I've been replaced! ' . ·· ' resemblance but now thinking back I still can't, but I can hear the resemblance. You sure he's not frQm Bropklyn? ' : ' · ·. ,IJsteJi this ·week (~5 a.ni. frL) for' the, best Rich Giwdi'an shew this.year, Sar1: The law of averages has it that at -. · . least one of our labs will work out, I Glen Elizabeth - Hi.- Ethan wonder when that will be? Kathy: It's great to hear that. laugh again! I'm so happy everything turned out o.k. you deserved it to. Susan : Hope the jokes for the next game have improved over last week ... a rainy night would be a killer. Kciko: Do you enjoy this advice giving? I'm sorry, rn shut\up eventually .but for now it is Space City - maybe· I'll .get a phone call or even a letter _:_ what is it they say about a wish and a star? Bub G. - Noticed you all year. look around next time. Big Brother is watching. Glen Emeioek -· You are a low·life. Kent McCOI'd Heterosexu.b of the world unite - stop holding your own and attack. Carol It Moira - Will we get a corner suite?! Which way do we want it to face1! Now it looks as though we don't have arty choice. All the excitement seems to have faded. Do we want a double1! Which way will It face?! With love from yBur future IUJteiUtt!l, P Ill J Linda R. - Please make yourself known to me. Siped, Amuln&IY better tUn anrtllkl& ;w'¥e heeD out with lately Betsy - But really, how are your grapefruits? R.R. - Maybe if you dropped your su11erior attitude, you wouldn't meet up with so many other such attitudes.. - Turned off. We tried to talk it over, but the words got in the way. We're lost inside this lonely game we play. Steve - Happy birthday. Sorry about the timing, but Concordy doesn't come out on Mondays. I still don't see how you get Springsteen out of Yhwh!! To the one on Fourth Floor South with the Brand New haircut .,.. Looks really sharp! Made my heart s~ip several beats and now I have rheumatic fever! ~ . Bi.&:. Bi!,~ _. Fat Malt - Why did you shave? Now webave to look at your whole Ugly face. P.S. Why did you sit in the front at the . concert. That way no one could sec. Throat - Since you brought it up, I -won't mention tbat I Worked 36 hours a Week freshman year and didn't get a free ride .through. Count your blessings ••• instead of your grades. The Bi&ot K.P. - Is it true .that you get headaches Mluy c. in Fox - Desperately need. Melilla in Richmond - ·Looked all when you wea, socks to bed? How 'bout Kris Kimak Uk·rainia.n Dancing on · Satutday ·afternoons must be great fun. We will all come and watch, • l J~anie and K~k~ _: The decision of the judg~s .is. unanimous'___: YOU· LOSE - American Junior Miss W..a.~ted: kosher meat - Schicza (sp??) pi!C<i ilot apply if under 36C Apply to Bx. 1103. .... J ,,_ Blaina - Stay healthy. Eat your honey. Susan - Are~'t you glad that Mr. Pibb is finally available in the 4th floor Richmond soda machine!? - Coke Mary - You haven't hugged me lately. How come? - Rejected Blaina - Love does not have to be pure and chaste from afar .... especially if you want to enjoy it! - A perved neighbor Sharon and Marie - Here's to our apartment! Look out Carrie Street - Sue Joan - What's so fascinating in Maine that makes you come back with that funny Mok on your face? Have you been satisfied? Roo - We enjoyed watching you play with your halls Thursday night. Call .us anytime you learn some new tricks. - The redhead and tile blonde Dear Cbristepher Columbus - Loose lips sink ships. However, can you swim? Woo's tbilt Redhead? She's reallY STACKED! Andua ..,. . Now we know you .don't h~ve one. Slped, Mareus Welby M.D. N.p,p, .;.. Nice skirt. Your friend, B.A.H~ 1 K Abrams - Where do you keep your horse? Callfonda'1 queer. Joel W. - Welcome to Union College I Sam W.- Welcome to Union College info for thesis .dealing with theJ· over and still no yo~. Show yourself. Chrla you Bui~hi? Dr. J. reproductive process. Won't you please\ C. ·- . . -· . - .· .... WiD this term evet end? Micllael, Joel, Sun - I hope you alli help me. Thank you. - from ail up and T.o Lance ReubeftltOne .,. Y911r eil;o's ~ • To die Girl :\bo took my hilt: 1 . have a g~t time at Union \:': Danny · f eoaaln1 :Doclor• • • ; lot deeperthan }iol$~,~~; :-\\ • .t,J~(1·~~ .. !.< ,-~'?uldQ~fl t~n~~of t9uc~iQ,yoq!.~ auy , , , '.' .!Miuteen:._Whe!e ~ewe goins? by l \No \'I And numer<J campus aftemo· intercol watchet basebal lacrosse offered merits it was that tl Colleg~ Field. down-c to the above the g: purstlel resp.on1 run arc each < where winnin Thw Rugby a club· groun< on the the ga many mainl} game: Rugl combir soccer, athlete the b compe· The durabl· punt Yo run hi every: Sc01 footba movin: down across field footba the gr1 worth points footba poi~ts & The omino the cr1 obvim caused once t the Wl ~··

pot a the lst ave (10 We the - (sp??) Bx. Pibb floor you our Sue funny sfied? play us Loose reallY .don't your . Page 15 ; •' . ~ .- . • ' . ' . . ' ' ' f . . . - . • I ' • > ' \ • • ' • • 1 ..... ;,::x.:.~~..!ot• . . .... 6port5. ~ .. :':1 ;.1 ~ • Rugby Profile: Htst and Present by ROCKY DOLAN \Now TMATS ~dumb sport.\ And so espoused' one of the numerous v~sitors to the UColl ca,mpus midway ·through an afternoon sampling- of Union intercollegiate .activity. Having watched .portions of successful baseball, varsity, and junior varsity lacrosse competition, apd having offered appraisals of the varying·· merits of each of these pastimes, it was suggessted to this parent that the 'real' sport at Union College lay ahead on Library Field. A quick, skeptical stroll down~mpus brought the .parent to the Rugby field, where the above comment on the value of the game was given. When pursued on this issue the critic responded, \It seems silly ----, they run around in little shorts and hit each other. You can never tell where the ball is going or who is winning.'' Thus the fate .of the sport of Rugby as it enters its 11th year as a .club· sport on the Union College grounds. Never a popular sport on the North American continent, the game and its p~yers suffer many populist misconceptions, · mainly due to ignorance of the game and its origins on campus. * * * * Rugby has been described as a combination of football and soccer, and as such the Rugby athlete must be able. to combine the ~st of the abilities of competitors from these sports .. The Rugby player must be durable, fairly large, fast, able to punt with both feet, and willing to run his shorts into the ground every Saturday afternoon. · Scoring in Rugby, as in football and soccer, is based on moving the ball in control up and down the field. Running the ball across the goal line on a Rugby field (slightly larger than a football field) and touching it to the ground is called a 'try,' and is worth 4 points~ There are extra poilus kicked simil~ to tho~ in football. and they are worth 2 poi~ts. Kicking the ball through football-field sized goal posts for .and a 'line-out' (opposing serums field goals are worth 3 points. line up ne~t ·to each other and There are no specialists in -jump for an in:boun,ds pass) is Rugby to kick these points: the called, or when a referee calls an best kicker among the 15-man injury time o\_lt for a fallen player .. team on the field is chosen. These Rugby is perhaps one of the 15 men are otherwise divided int~ most popular ~ports on a world- pc;>sitions With 8 scrummers, 6 wide basis, and in some cases linemen, an9 I serum: half. After rivals ·soccer for intensity and a rules infraction, the 8 national pride. In Argentina, for scrummers form a 'serum~ and the instance, Club Rugby matches in opposing serums loc.k- arms ln a front of 100,000 spectators are· tight circle. The 8 serum, in ideal held on fields surrounded by 20- similar to footba:ll linemen, try to foot moats, strands .C)f barbed feed th¢ ball back to the serum wire, and nationalist soldiers. In half using. their feet, Like his some cases in South America, football counterpart, the referees have been known to quarterback, the serum half arrive on the field in Army tanks. immediately pitches back to his Tanks, moats, and barbed wire line. The li:Qes advance by either 1 have yet to be common objects , found on Field, but there .mark of the sport. \We've found as the years go on there are cycles of enthusiasm and ' commitment to the sport,\ said Taylor,. \but I'd have to say this year's bunch is about the best we've ever had.\ The statistics ba-ck Taylor's · statement completely. The Rugby Club was undefeated through the 5th week of the season, entered a 'slump' of 2 losses and a tie, and then returned this weekend to ·romp over a certainly better- conditioned and larger Army squad. What's the secret for such success? According to senior- member Taylor it's 4 'The enthusiasm and hard-nosed ·attitude the guys bring to the Klak also has the Rugby celebrates that sweet success backwards. There is no blocking can be no argument that the 1 team better prepared than most or forward passing, and the game passion between lines during· a squads we face ... never stops - when a runner is Union Rugby game rivals that of Senior Steve Klak was elected tackled with the ball he can feed it any championship game. The captain following a successful fall back or give it up to the opposing Union Rugby ciub started in. a season, and since there is no team. Kicking, as noted before, is siniilar atmosphere: a few addicts coach on the student-tax funded an integral part of the game. of the game exhorting their team, Klak is responsible for Often a player will find himself in friends to join up, and finally scheduling, practices, and poor position downfield, and gaining enough followers to field funding. In lieu of the enormit} of must punt off his wrong foot a team. Through the years the this task. the squad recently while running unprotected from club has grown in size and ~lected a scheduling secretary, opposing tacklers. expertise, now boasting some 40 · sophomore Burt Slavin, and a The action is non-stop, and is 1active members. According to treasurer, junior Glenn Meyers. fast and furious, lasting for two /veteran Chris Taylor, who is Klak, and other senior 30 to 40 minute halves witbout .completing his 8th and fmal me~bers Bruce .. Weasel\ time-out. The .sole breaks in a season of UColl Rugby (Rugby is Pullmm, Roch Thompson, Tom typical 35-minute half are when a fall-spring endeavor), this spring Ryan, Tom Boyle, Meyers and the ball is kicked out of bounds campaign has been the high-water Taylor 'emphasize, before the game itself,- the \Rugby Ideal.\ Although the schedule has improved dramatically over the years and the squad continues to grow, winning is \always nice, but not everything,\ according to spokesman Taylor. It is a Rugby custom that the home team is responsible for supplying the beer after a game, and that both teams are responsible for finishing it off. As in hockey, there is a line-up and shaking of hands after the game, but it is not an unusual sight to see both squads arm-in- arm tumbling off to a shady tree of the old D. U. lounge for a long afternoon of chugging and singing together of Rugby songs. Bad feelings and bruises tend to disappear, and most players awaken somewhat foggy-eyed the next day with only fond memories of the past day and their . opponents. * * * \' With a large Parents' Weekend crowd ever ,so vocal in support, the Union Rugby Club defeated the West P~inters quite handily. ·The comments of the forementioned parent on the game had changed in favor of the sport as he watched it progress, but the important detail that · finally swung sentimen~ towards... the game was the observance of the post-game cheering and camaraderie, unique on this campus to the Rug,bjy team. The Union Rugby players receive no official· athletic recognition, but in a very special way they are the purest of athletes in an Olympian sense. Not the winning, but the 'taking part• is emphasized, and Without doubt . after an hour of tackling, running, ·and scn,~ping in shorts and socks, one has truly· experienced every imaginable . emotional and physical feeling possible in such a simple game. The .. Rugby Ideal,\ as it is ·called by Taylor, epitomizes the sport, and in that sense can the UColl Rugby athletes receive all the recognition they could ever want as the finest •sportsmen' on the Union campus. Spirited Ruggers Defeat Armed Forces by WEASEL & GLENN MYERS The arrival of ~he big, grey, ominous bus drew a buzz from the crowd. The unloa.diilg of the obviously bigger opponents caused ·a gulp here and there; but once the opening kickoff was on the way, size and reputation fell victim to determination as the Union College Ro:ggers met head on with the Army Cadets of West Point. The hittin$, as expected, was neither light nor seldom as the \oohs~· and \aahs\ of the crowd were reflective of the will to win by both teams in one of the fairest yet most frantic games of the season. The.entire field was the object of constant action ana the Union Ruggers kept the crowd screaming with some tremendous gang tackling and steady pursuit. Anriy kept plugging and some good haro running resulted in a 6-0 lead. ·Union showed that 'never say die' form characteristic of this enttre year and it payed off when Pete Felker rambled for try. Union found. themselves trailing 6-4 at the half. Army showed superior conditioning as it moved the ball downfield hut the defense held tight and refused to let them score. The crowd never stopped supporting the Union Ruggers and they returned the compliment by repeatedly swarming Army's goal-line. It was Pete Felker . again who finally took it in and gave Uni<.>n an 8-6 lead. They continued to keep the ball in Army's territory with excellent kicking and Army failed to score again. Burt Slavin added a pe~talty kick and the final score was Onion II - Arrny 6. There were no exceptional performances in this contest as each individual on the field gave all-out and contributed in his own way. The B game saw the return of Alumni Bruce Eggleston. Bruce made one score of his own and a combined score with sophomore Peter Delahunt doing the bull work on the score. Captain Klak made a heads up score on a line- out with short yardage ... Junior Clarence (Lance) Travi$ made the tap as the awesome Klak made the grab and shifted his way in for the score. Freshman Dave (Zuck) Zuckerman made the extra points on two of these scores to give the B side 16 big points. The Cadets had only 12 points when the game ended to give the Union Ruggers yet another victory. Army was on the scoreboard first and failed to make the extra points. The hard- hitting, spirited Union team made it back and made their extra points to make the score 6-4 at :the halfway mark with Union ahead. The second half saw Army · punch one past the Union defense to again . lead the game but they again failed to make the extra points. Union came back again and then Army came hack to make the score 10:-12 midway through the second half with Army on top. Union was · determined to take this game as ·their serum rocked forward and punched their way to the score. With the extra points attempt made good, Union stood at 16-12 Continued on Pagtt 16 ·

.. Page 16 CONCORP.!TJNSIS, Mafll, 1977 · . ~ ~ .. - . . ' I. 6port6 Tracksters Boast Outstanding R.ecord' 9-1 With a big win over Albany and Williams at Albany State,. and a disappointing loss to R.P.l. in Troy, the Union College Flying Dutchmen found themselves at the end of their regular season dual meet schedule sporting a fine record of 9-1. Although the past 2 weeks br.ought the team to its first defeat. uf the season, these weeks have been filled with outstanding perfornldnces. THE COLGATE RELAYS A week ago Wednesday. the · trackstcrs ot Interim coach Bob Magee took a short respite from their grueling twice-a-week dual· meet schedule to enter the prestigious Colgate Relays. As no official team score was calculated, it is impossible to say who won the meet, but the Union dominance was so encompassing that out of 14 events, the Dutchmen won 7 and placed in 6 others. Those p~s'ent at the meet were·also·treated to especially fine . indiVidual; · performances ·from junior -Bob Moffatt' in the track events and senio.r Rich Norman on the field side of the program. Moffat~ unquestionably the most outstandin.s sprint/middle distance 1 runner in the State, lmt teamed \'lith ·freshman Matt Guilfoyle, freshman Pete Vielkind, and sophomore standout KeVin/ Scheuer to disappear from the field in the disU.nce medley and set a -meet and -stadium'''record· !Of ·10!29.6; After· t&t;Moffaftf;aJid sc:&uer combined With' the fresh01en duo of Guilfoyle and James Gaffney to take the mile reilly in 3:2.2.4, and, after tnat,; Moffatt anchored a team of Gaffney, fte11hman Ed . Dingman, and sophomore Lee Parish to a win in the 880 relay bY burning a 21.9 220 - his fastest ever. Finally, at day's end, Moffatt aided a 3:37.5 victory in the sprint ·medley along 'with Dingman. Parish;: and Vjelkind, setting yet ant>th~ meet record iP the proeess. · Rich Norman as well enjoyed his finest hour. The senior broke his own school mark ·of 210 feet in \the javelin and qualified for the NCAA Division HI Meet by throwing the spear an amazing 216-lO, the winner by a large margin. In other field events Keith Crimmins (6-4), Cliff Rogers (6- 2), and Earl Chilton, who also placed third in the triple jump with a leap of 44-8, combined for a high jump relay win of 18-2. Union was also for the first time blessed with 3 healthy pole vaulters, and Eddie Adams (I 3-'0); Btuce Bonano (12~6), and Mike May ( 12'-0) wen! the winners th~rte. Additionally, a hurdle performance was handed in by so.phomore , indoor state champion, Matt Blum. Blum met defeat for only the second time since December, .running the excellent time of 14.9, but placing second to Art ·Monk ·of Syracuse in the open high hurdles. ~· ' ' l •I UNION ;DEFEATS • ' ALBANY, WILLIAMS to tbe fortunes of track .and field, Moffatt, Gaffney mile relay sophomore Cliff Rogers (2nd) which demand that a team must quartet to a big win i~ 3:29.1. controlled ,the high. jump, :while be ·str<m.g in all events. not solely Bob Moffatt had another big Eddie Adains I~apt 13-0 to take a few select specialties. . The day for the Dutchmen .. The junior the vault. Rich Norman threw the co-capta,in led Matt Guilfoyle Dutcbmen were , shut out javeli~ tQ aw~n, p:i~uring 203-7, (2nd 52.0) and Jim Gaffney (4tn c~mpletely in ~he .. long. ju~,p,, ).:.Il4· .P~ced ~cond, .. in. the dis~!JS- 53.2) to a near-sweep e1f the 440 . ~~o~~ut,_. ~amm~f~· .·. 3~Y,~tle, -sophomore: >indoor reeord holder by winning in 49,4, and then took· m,~~~a~ ~urd~e$, ~?4 ~~t. a Earl Chilton, h()wever~ was up~t the 2~ in 22. ~; .{9.Uowe~ . by ~ very unex~~~ed .d!=f~t 11!' the 440 ip J~~s s~ialty and had to settle t»iirisb (3rd ' 22.8) ' lind Ed relay. . . . . .. :. for .second ia the triple jump, ~.ingman (4th 23.0). Moffatt was Bob Moffatt and Ke-vin · well teamed with l,lur4ler: .. Matt . SCbe~Jer . . w~re•· once Bgllin, · Union's slim hopes f~r a win tn A week. later on a windy day at Blum (who won the 120 bighs\ m j}~yertheleS$,. double . winners for Troy were kept alive by what Albany's aU-weather track Union lS.2 and was third in the 390 ~~·l1Aion team. Scheuer <;IQcked some people called . the · most dominance was again the story, intermediates), Dingman, and .Ji$9;0 ira the 880 and 4:21;0 iti-1he. am~ing relay work they had ever Union athletes were on top in ll Parish. to ~e the 440 relay and mile, wbile Moffatt took die 220 seen. Freshmen Matt Guilfoyle events and the margin of vi~tory also had a leg on the victorious in 2l.3 and ran to a quarter mile and Peter Vielkind led ·off the this tim~ was 12 points over ·mile relay crew. win in 48.9, qualifying hUn for 1he mile relay, and after Kevin Albany and 46 over Williams. Rich __ NoODlln won the javelin NCAA Division. Ill Scheuer comp~eted th~:rmt 3· It may have been j1U\ior With a toSs. of 206-3, then ~ced Championships. _. quarters of a . IJlik for . the Moffatt's day-at Colgate, but on se<:.ond in the discus at 12~-2, , ,,FJeSh~n ).(UDCS .Ga,ffn.,y( 2 nd !?'tffi~~n, the R.Pl~npneers, by this ·breezy~. wet afternoon, ScotiA wJUle Ecldi~ Adams .set il iJCr'?~ in.' .. ; .• 220. . ),· • M. · .. !Itt.· Gnilr. .. o.yl,e (3 .. rd. in ~~ ~lt~ . rq~ pre1J•ctiqns. w. e~ sopJJomore I.e~ St:Jieuer jave m;ord of 1~ to take tbe . pole - \ ~: s ttm n Q1f, rtable 40 notice; tliat be was yet to· be y~ult, and leapt 19..6~• to 'place 880f.. supported Moff~tt r•nd } · .IJ -· 0 a very co 0 . .. .. - reckoned with. A month ago on third in the long jump. Scheuer in team rQ.Ces and all ran yard: lead. There was Joking this same track Scheuer had lost Bruce Bonano was .fourth in relay legs. . around the handoff about h is firs· t d ..... meet mil. ·.e. ra.· ·\.in the both the shot· and pole va,uf~ the catching the q11ick•striding RPI -. . Sophomore Matt Blwn came lead b ... ; .. ·s b m ; .d\\'\'r-\utd· o;or~season t.o Sta.tc's ~nior co-captain in tndnins. for. a .. er, ut onee co...cap...... o _.. -... . . withili inches of ll uniq\le double M f:&: k h ba · ., J ·ohn·. .U.nderwoQd. • This •l-e decatbalon attempt, and o 1att too · t e . ton, smtLes . . ~ victory. Blum lapped the 120 higb d 1 f ·. RPI t Scbcuer refq~ to let the paqe sophonaoa:e ~~. C~ton wu hutd•e~ in 1$.3, and tllen ~as seeme to eap rom . . o S •-.- ken, kicked. in a strong last follow~ tn his tnple JUIDP (42~} · Union faces. Moffatt, with three - ... ,.. . plaeecl, .· .. . -~n<l in. • the too.· ·. after r •• n. beh\ d hi.. . . lr d lap, and blazed down the stre~h wi~ bY ve.-s.atile sprinter Matt· t):ing teammate Lee Parisb: in the .1uu events .. m m a ea y, in a personal and u-.ek record Guilfoyle, recovered from an ear caught ltis opponent .on the final timing of 4:13.3. After ll ltalf ~ection, leap.ng sg..s placing 100 dash at' l-D.l. turn IUld bla,sted away to win by's hour'•· rest S<:ltcuer kicke<l·off an thinl. As .llsual in the field events YardS. clociQng a sizzling 47.6 eQy pace to'takc the half ahead UNION SPIKERS FALL TO Union high jum}Jers, pol~ ai\chor leg~ of teammate l'ete Vielkid'nd 6 (2nnd , ~PI vaulters, ~d Rich Nol'JlUUl were .Moffatt's phenomenal effort 2:02.1) ·in 2:0L.I an . ma Y stalwarts. Freshman Keith could not affect the teatn score, Rtumed to ancbor a Guilfoyle, This pa8t Saturday Union fell Crimmins (1st 16-~), . a11.d however, for as RPI's. weightmen · imiShed up, the ou~coine: became Baseball 'Has Successful-Week apparent. _The five individUfil . efforts of tbe past ,t'j.Y~ weeks, however:; point to a bright horizon for Union athletes and interim C~h Bob Maaee at tbe State Championships Saturday at by JON SCHORR . Possibly inspired: by the presence · of their parents, the members of the Union College baseball team . moved their season~s record to 4-6 as they triumphed over the Middlebury varsity by a s(:ore of 8-S thus avenging an early season losl!. Earlier this week the Dutchmen defeated RPI 7-6 and lost to Siena 6-4. Before a supportive Parents' Weekend 'crowd the Dutchmen found themselVes down 1-o to Middlebury after one innin,g of play; Union (:ame back in the second to score two aided by RQb Schuaber's sactifice. Mter a scoreless Middlebury second the Dutchmen scored two more in their half e1f the second as Dave Adsit singled and went to se.cond on a catcher's error. T~en Dave Grotz doubled driving. in Adsit. With one out Gary Borgese sacrificed another run home. Middlebury scored two iJi the fourth malting it 4-3 Union at the end of four innings. . The Dutchmen struck for another in the f'afth. as Adsit singled and took second on an error by the centerfielder. Dave Grotz walked and both m,tloeJrs advanced on 1t passed ball putting ·men 011 second and third • .Joe Lavery walked, loading the: b.as¢s. Adsit was forced out at the plate but Grotz was able to SC<ire on a pitcher's· error. · Miqdlebury•s bats were silent through the sixth 1and seventh as Union added-one in their end of the seventh with three straiaht walks and . Gary Borge$e's .. sacrifice fly. In their half of the eighth Middlebury scored twice making the score 6-5, Union in the lead. In the home half of the eighth Schuaber singled and with two outs Adsit tripled drivin,g one across. Grotz · singled 81\d Adsit crossed the plate. John Mayer held Middlebury in the ninth and was credited with the win in a 7 .. .5 0 nion victory. In the week's earlier victory over RPI the Dutchmen were paced by the hitting of Dan DeGregory who had.adouble and home run while driving in three runs and by Dave' Grotz who had three hits in five trips to the plate. Freshman Joe Lavery was credited with the Win. The Dutchmen next . face Rochester, away, on May n. Oswego. · Spirit. Continued from ~ate 15 with 8 minutes left in the game. Army failed to come back again as the Union defen!Je stiffened. This double win puts Union's · record at 10-2-l for this season. Union College has never before seen such a spirited and tough Rugby club. We'd like to thank you for the support we received last weekend. The crowd was another record for the Ruggers. Two half kegs of Schlitz hit the dust on the sidelines Saturday afternoon. Come out ibis Saturday when we take on the Albany State squad on Library Field. ·Support your Rugby Club~ c ........ byD TJ:ie housin take pi six o'c librar) been disple~ first Sl tO, Bt \vaspc Thursc The for in the t }{)ttel) ,boyco On AII-0 eight 1 SQcial studer plans follow Howe indica _ rnight Thw& postpl protec to cro time group evenir lottet: inord to pre to si. stud ann:ot Smit~ intere any expre stl.ldeJ Leno: suffic live. The Suut to .gc that misi~ pre vic May mail~ infon room exact ber c mise mise< seem M1 there probl Were

ll'i by to ree nal the his tbe II Volume 1 0~, .~o. 23 May 18, 1~77 • CONCORDY EXCLUSIVE: BONNER·IN NESCAC OUT The Union College Board of Trustees, meeting in New York City today, voted confidence in · President Thomas N. Bonner and asked him to accept reappoint- ment for another year. Dr. · Bonner .accepted his reappoint- . lllent. The Trustees further voted to leave NESC'AC and to remain in DiVision II hockey competition. In a statement received at 4:30 p.m. today, the Board of Trustees said they voted to '\abide, by the principle~ of NESCAC and the highest ~tandards of integrity.\ The special full trustee board meeting held today was called in New York City to review the report made by the Special Trustee Committee charged to investigate the gnvernance structure and the ent1re situation that has led to the pre~ent campus conllict. The full hoard meet.ing was called m place of the ext.:cuttve cornmtttcc mccttng originally scheduled. President B·onner gains ~onfiden~e vote I he Spcual Cummtttcc was cstabli!ihcd vn Aprd 16 tollu.wing a Hoard ol I rustcc mccting held on the lJnion College campus. It was at that meeting that the college President, rhomas Bonner, resigned over facts .still not known. Bonner's resignation was not accepted pending the report of the special investigation. The week prior to the trustee meeting saw a .final Burry of Housing Controversy Continues memoranda that only served to aggravate a situati<Jn on campus that had transcended athletics. The facqlty, trustees and the President had sent conflicting by DEBBIE POLETTO Tlie twice postponed freshman housing lottery is sch~duled to talc.e place Wednesday, May 18, at six o 1 clock in the West College library. The lottery, which h'a11 been th.e. cause of much displeasure among students, was first scheduled for Tuesday, May tO, :But,. due to complications, it was postponed until the following Thursday~ The plea .cast by students was for immediate . action to contest the unfair conditions of the l()ttery,. and .if necessary to ,boycott the :remainder of it . On. Wednesday, May 11th, an All-Campus. meeting was held at eight o'clock in Room 016 of the SQcial Science building. There students discussed and organized plans for a sit-in to take place the. following evening at the lottery. However, the pitch clearly indicated that physical harm _ might be do,ne to students, the Tbur!iday night lottery was again postp()ned in · an attempt to- protect tl10se students who wishe<l to cross the boycott lines. At that time Dea.n Smith addressed the group. wh<J ·turned out that evenin-g and explained that the lottery would be further delayed in order to a'Void any violence and to protect those students wishing to sign up for room~. Many students- left after the announcemetit; however, Dean Smith remarned to speak with any interested students and answer any specitic questions. He eXpressed his desire to work with st!.lde .. ts in making the possible Lenox:. Road housing more self- sufficient and a better place to live. The Director of Housipg, Suunne Dowling, was working to · .get information together so · that· students would tlot ~ as misiri'formed as they had previously been. On Tuesday, May 17,. through .a massive mailbox' stuff, students were informed as to exactly how many rooms were available and where exactly those rooms were. It was her desire to. clear up the many miscalculations and misconceptions which stu~ents seem to be under. Many students question why there were · so many more problems this year than there were in tbe ;past. The an~JWer is, that these problems' which exist Upsilon fr~ternity. However, it is this year are equal to those of the a misconception that these groups pa s t. P r e v i o us 1 y ., a ll .are a major caus¢ of the existing upperclassmen were situated and, problems. lt was in Jact stated then freshmen were juggled to fit that they have not in actuality wherever room ~m~tined. When been a major factor, While they the frel)hnien were not present to may have somewhat re<tuced the get, involved and question options, they have made little housing, there ~ert.: seemingly no difference in terms -of numbers. problems. However, increased AU ayailable locations for student awareness this year has fraternity and sorority housing on brought out those problems and · Lenox Road were completely has created the unrest which now tilled. exists among many students. The decision to eliminate · Some of the existing problems freshmen from Lenox Road has are the ~sult of cheating in this been the cause of added tension year's lottery.. Some Juniors and to the housing situation. It is to Sophomores, by cheating, have be stressed that this decision was secured rooms while reducing the made about a year and a half ago, n~,Jmber of availabie rooms, and it but could not be implemented is those students who did not until this year. A study showed ch.eat th!it are suffering, according that living there created many . to the housing office. , added problems in terms. of Options in th.is year's lottery adjustment for incoming were also decreased by the arrival freshmen. It was then decided of the two sororities - Si~a the practice of housing freshmen Delta Tau and Delta Gamma, one on Lenox Road should be new fraternity - Zeta Beta Tau, discontinued. and· t~ reinstatement of the Delta · Both Director of Housing Suzanne Dowling and Dean reports to the trustees on the Smith have expressed the opinion . reasons why the campus had been that the problems of Lenox Road paralyzed. The faculty trustees, can be solved for upperclassmen Professors Schick and Thomas, if they ali work together in had focused on administrative . conjunction with Housing. behavior wi1ile President Bonner The problems which now exist had attacked the· campus stem from a lack ·of governance structure. communication. Unrest was The Special trustee committee caused greatly by the fact t~t ~:net on cam,pus on Saturday, students were made aware of the · April 23. At that time they Lenox Road decision and lack of assembled with certain campus available rooms only days before trustees, Professor Neal Allen, the lottery was to take place. Chairman of the admissions Students ~xpress~d the opinion . investigation, Dean Paula th~t they felt as tf s'?meone was Brownlee, President Thomas trymg to ~u~ so~etlung over ·.on . B 0 n n e r, a n d c e r t a in them, and It ts this co~cern which administrators. h~s . ~a~sed theu great On the following weekend the dtssatlsfactio~. . committee met in New York City . _The Housmg C'?mmittee and with the college division Dtrec.tor of .~ousmg a~e now chairmen. Again, Concordiensis workmg specifically to mcrease was unable to determine the facts student awareness, Students -.all surrounding that conference. .~tudents - are .assured housmg I _The. members of the Special lor. the ye~r 1977-1978. All who Committee are: Dr. Lee L. d~stre h~Usi.ng are guara~teed and Davenport, chairman; Norton ~11 recet~~ tt, and they wlll not be Reimes; Gerald Neumann; Arthur forced oft campus. Vash; and Ralph Bennett. Ganz, .Sherman ·in Pres. Run-off ELECTION RESULTS ANJJ RUN-OFF BALLOT PRESIDENT: Michael Ganz ( 452 votes, 39.2 % ). Joel Sherman (234 votes, 20.3 % ) VICE .PRESIDENT: Jo-Ann Messina (497 votes, 47.9 %) John Speer· (2~6 votes, 27.6 %' ) STUDENT tRUSTEE: Bill Jenkins .(339 votes; 31.9 %) Brien O'Toole (325 votes, 30.2 % ) JUNIOR REPRESENTATIVE: Steve Grill .(32 votes, 9.5 % ) Bill Wade ( 16 votes, 4. 7 % ) SOPHOMORE REPRESENTATIVE: (two positions) Amy !'-loner ( 1.53 Vdtes, 22.5 % ) Michael Arato (118 votes, 17.4 % ) Randy Feldman (112 votes, 16.5 % ) As a result of the campus-wide elections of Tuesday May 17th, there will be five run-off elections on Tl1ursday May 19th from 8:15- 11.m to 8:15 pm. The balloting for the offices of President, Vice President, Student Trustee, Junior and Sophomore Representative will take place in Carnegie Hall. The only winners after the Tuesday elections were ·Todd Miller, winner of the unco1ltested race for Secretary and Murray Levison, winner of , another uncontested race for one ··of . the Junior Representative positions. According to electi.on procedures a candidate must receive one vote more than a 50 % majority to win ·without a run- off. If three candidates receive over 30 % but less than 50 % they will be in the run-off. A run-off betweefl the top two vote-getters will be held if less than three candidates receive 30 % of the votes. The matchups for Thursdays run-offs are as follows: (figures in parentheses, are from Tuesday's election)

Page 2' EDI'{ORIAtS: Glee Club In the midst of the present campus conflict, there exists one major event on the Union College campus that is representative of overall cooperation, namely the Glee Club's trip to Venezuela. Under the direction of Professor Hugh Allen Wilson, the Men's Glee Club will be traveling to Venezuela for a 2-week concert tour. lhe tour was arranged as a memoriam for the Orfeon, the choir of the Central University of Caracas, which crashed enroute to ~ intcrnattonal competition. Union will be accompanied by the ' Wheaton College Women's Glee Club. The two colleges were sdc<:tcd because they were the ones which attended a requiem mass held m Hoston on the first day of Union's classes. Many individuals deserve recognition for their efforts in organizing this international and inter-collegiate good will gesture. Foremost, is Professor Wilson and the Glee Club leaders who have taken active interests in this event since September. Furthermore, . Coach Ned Harkness and President Bonner deserve credit for their financial support through an inter-squad hockey match and the president's Halloween party. Indeed, the Venezuela government and the Central University must be applauded for their combined aid in organizing this event. · The two week trip will be highlighted by the opening performance which President Carter's wife has been invited to attend. In addition, there are possible attempts to arrange a stop-over in Washington, D.C. and a satellite transmission .of the choral event Concordiensis congratulates all those involved in arranging the tour. Indeed this is the type of national publicity and international relations that Union should strive for. Opinion: The housing office's statement of April 20, 1977 said that \all housing arrangements will now continue as they exist,\ with the exceptions of the abolishment of squatter's rights and the housing of fraternitieS\' and sororities. Housing says that -included within the statement was the plan decided on two · years to 1- bring freshmen down from Lenox Road. Obviously, this plan is. not part of the ''present arrangement.\ If housing had meant to implement this plan next year, then it should have been mentioned on April 20th. By not . informing the student body of its planl until the Junior Lottery, housing has broken its promlse to the stUdent body - something has definitely been changed. Housing's insufficient notice of its plan deprived the class of '80 of time to examine all housing possibilities · for the coming year. The question is not where Freshmen live, but rather one of ethical standards. Housing's misleading statement and j lottery inequalities are not erased by its apologies. Rectification . must occur. l propose two connected solutions to this problem. Firstly, the ~tudentsshouldkeeptheirnumbersi while the room choices should be voided. Unhappiness will occur, but the lottery was inequitably . performed. It should be redone with the rooms on t.enox. Road reserved for Freshmen. Some sophomores may still ~ placed on . Lenox, but then they will have had a fair chance to receive a room · down campus. Housing feels that, \to reverse this deci$ion at this · time would only be to take advantage of the incoming cl~s.\ Not to 1 reverse the decis'lon takes advantage of the class of 1980, lind not, at· all, of '81. Future problems will continue to occur with t~is plan of putting freshmen ahead of sophomores. The expectation is to climb · over the years and not drop. The second half of my proposal is that Lenox Road must be made a desireable place to live by making physical improvements in the rooms. The incoming freshmtn would 1 see the plan as that of emptying desirable spaces, of fres~men, on Lenox, for upper classmen. I feel that my proposals are •the only · equitable solution to this problem that would continue tQ uphold I the high ethical standards of this institution. . 'I Jessica A. Bmlbardt '·. • anion col... ~ • concorotensrsl Editor-in-Chief .................................................. Danny Wojnilower 1\~~ociate Ediior. . .. Ben Green 1\lews Editors.. . . .. Andy Mitchell, Matt Nagorsky Layout Editor... ... . ... .......... .... .. ....... .. . ....... . ...... Joe Cappuccio. Feature Editor... ... ........... . ............... : .... Sara Simmon~ · Sports Fditors. . .................. Debbie Poletto, Mdrty Dolan Culture Editor .......................................................................... Fern Flomenhaft Business Managers ..................................................... Barbara Stern, Marla Lux Classifieds Editors ........................................... Patti Moran, Martha }{ubenstein Photo Editors .............................................................. ~:Jon Flescher, Steve Grill Photography Staff .......................................................... Ed Platz, Neill< ronick Cary Feveniian, Marc Gotleib Art Editor ...........................................................•............................ BesterWeiss Poetry Editor ......................................................................... Delanne Stageman Staff this wcelr. ••.•••••••.•....•...........•.••.......•.....••• ~ .•... Kathy Shaw; Anilrew Wisoff, Robyn Kobert, Allyne Price, Linda Straube, Cindy Vanina, Paul Castrataro, Cindy Aranow, Denise Wachtcnhein . CONCORDIEN~US Is pubilshed every W~d~-Y by the. st;:.d;~t .j body of Uition College, Old Gym Hall, Schenectady, New Vork; to 1 wblcb Postal For11111 3579 are directed. PubUcations ODice: The . .. Jewilh Wodd Publications, 416 Smith St., Schenectady, N.Y. 12305 · (370.5483). Entered in the Schenectady Post Office as Second Class vM*tter. Subtrcrlptioli Rate.'$5 cents ·per copy, 510. a ,-ear !leli!er~ ,mywhert' In ihe 1)Qi~·St,t~; . , , , . . , · .. , . , CONCORDIENSIS~ May 18, 1977 1 Yot w..,sts 29. A1 cue, I ~·woo mo~ O)(Hrii tequil• and n entire the st So generc:: tllem DoWli Soci; Comn of ~ indep~ have Wests West all w~ mone: will ' aniqu Ou1 perf01 tangi1 ofCb Aces wha! and~ , was versat Ense11 perfo1 blueg: anyth by H Dol two Colle! the f hours such. above This rewar ColleJ the d All¢n Colle, unde1 Fasse two sched fourt1 won;t unde1 Th Vene throll de I Coos tour the 1 choir Cara' Azor while

Page 2 EDI'fORIALS Glee Club In the midst of the present campus conflict, there exists one major event on the Union College campus that is representative of overall cooperation, namely the Glee Club's trip to Venezuela. Linder the direction of Professor Hugh Allen Wilson, the Men's lilee Club wtll be traveling to Venezuela for a 2-week concert tour. I he tour was arranged as a memoriam for the Orfeon, the choir of the Central Umverstty ol Caracas, which crashed enroute to mternattonal competition. Union will be accompanied by the V. heatun College Women·s Glee Club. rhe two colleges were ~ckdcd because they ~ere the ones whtch attended a requ1em mass held m Boston on the hrst day ot Umon's classes. Many mdtvJduals deserve recogmtion lor their elforts in organtttng this international and inter-collegiate good will gesture. hm~most. 1s Prolessor 'W llson and the Glee Club leaders who have w ken actl~tc mterest3 m thl~ event smce September. r urthermo re. < \ach \.cd Har!..ne~s and Prestdent Bonner deserve cred11 tor thetr I tnanual support through an inter-squad hockey match and the rr~·,:dcnt'-. Halloween part~· Indeed. the Vene1uela government and :he· f·,,ntral I 'n1wro;ttv must he applauded tor their combined atd in (\rgantltng tht' e\·ent. ! hL- two week tnr will be highlighted bv the opemng performance \h1ch President Carter's wife ha-, heen invited to attend In <!ddlt!nn. there are possible attempts to arrange a stop--P\'er in W:t,h:ngtnn, DC and a satellite transmission of the ch0ral even: Concordiensis congratulates all tho\e involved in arranging the !our Indeed this is the type of national publicity and international relations that Union should strive for. Opinion: The housing office's statement of April 20, 1977 said that \all housing arrangements will now continue as they exist,\ with the exceptions of the abolishment of squatter's rights and the housing of fraternities- and sororities. Housing says that included within the statement was the plan decided on two years tot· bring freshmen down lrom Lenox Road. Obviously, this plan is not pa11 ol the \present arrangement.\ If housing had meant to implement thi!> plan next year, then it should have been mentioned on April 20th. B) not mformmg the student body of its plan1 until the Junior Lottery, housing has broken its promise to the student body something has definitely been changed. Housing's insufficient notice of its plan deprived the class of '80 of time to examine all housing possibilities tor the coming year. The question is not where Freshmen live, but rather one of ethical standards. Housing's misleading statement and lottery inequalities are not erased by its apologies. Rectification must occur. l propose two connected solutions to th1s problem. Firstly, the ~tudents should keep their numberst while the room choices should be voided. Unhappiness will occur, but the lottery was inequitably performed. It should be redone with the rooms on Lenox Road reserved for Freshmen. Some sophomores may still be placed on Lenox, but then they will have had a fair chance to receive a room down campus. Housing feels that, \to reverse this decision at this time would only be to take advantage of the incoming clalss.\ Not to reverse the decis'ton takes advantage of the class of 1980, and not, at all, of '81. Future problems will continue to occur with this plan of putting freshmen ahead of sophomores. The expectation is to climb over the years and not drop. The second half of my proposal is that Lenox Road must be made a desireable place to live by making physical improvements in the rooms. The incoming freshmen would see the plan as that of emptying desirable spaces, of freshmen, on Lenox, for upper classmen. 1 feel that my proposals are ·the only equitable solution to this problem that would continue to uphold the high ethical standards of this institution. CONCORDIENSJS, May 18, 1977 : threatell · for years to come. a on prominent newspaper pick up Caml'lllS~ l:n fact; if YQ'Il had on tbese stories. t~····<mll~ge ·· ~t.t\~q,4~9- the .Opett ·.· lif)u~e .. : will recei~ a tnt nf publicity. Nt:eet.lrig. held :on Tuesday, Not, however. the kind May- 17~ 1917 at 4:30 p.m. in President Bonner had in mind SSOlu, you could have heard. when he instituted the hockey his '\oettds ju.stifies the me~nu\ program here at Union. The phibsOlJby espol;tserl by Dean · · excesses of a few may not only Smith and- Suzanne Dowl-ing. ruin a successful athletic , T~ meeting. was aoother u d. •• h program; they may ruin a fine pseu · o . attempt on t e part institution; - ~-Ct~ aqm:inistra-tion to satisfy. With th.e Boord of 1':rusteest tl1!!tSIJ:UO:f;}~t bod~~$ desit§:~~t\~u llt'':.d~!CiS\ion yet pending on ~--9~ ..•. ctQ'ii''' be AMf.Q,,,lf, Jessica A. Bernhardt· l·dttor·tn-Chicl \\\Clale l:d1tor \'e\' Ldttor• l.a)nUt hlnor I eaturc f dti<H \\r~~~!' f l~ttur\- c ulturc I d1t•P fkl- .Tit''\ \1ct0.1gt'l' r 1.1 111nh I dll•-,. Ph-.t l 'dttHfl, l'hnhJ!o(ldph] \1,111 .Danny Wo)ntlower Hen (neen •\nd) \l!ttchell. !'v!alt \,agor'k) .JOt ( 'dppW •. :I..ID '>ara ~mtnwn' IJchh1c l'o>lt'lt<•. \1..11:. (J,,lan h·r n I lnrncnhall ll.,,h\'\ '-.tc::·,_ \1..,!., I~\ l'ottr \1 t•r.r n_ 'Vlart h.< P .:h~~- rt•rn loll 1-le,cher. '>It''\ (Ifill l.d l'lat/, \crl Kronwl lar} I cvcrrnan. !Vi arc t ootkrh ·\1 t t U !lllr I'•H.:ll) I Jdtof I Jtl,tfo\l \taguuau Kath) '>hav., Andre\ V.r~oll, Rohyn 1\tJht:rl, 1\ll}nt l'lilC, I 111da '>trauhe. ( 111U_-. \.arlllld. Pdu• ( '\\\lidlall' ( 111d} Aldlll'\· llt.ru:o,t: V..ch .. hh.:nheJn ~ta11 th1~ week ( O'lo( llltiHt.:0.-.1:0. \ publl\hed teHfJ \\ ed.w...Ja} b) tht· \ludtnl I bud) ol l mon ( ullegt, Old (,ym lloll, O.,chrntll!Od), \'•\ \ ork. lo whtch l'c,..lal h•rm• _1&;1'1 are dirrrted_ Puhlimliun' om... lht· J .... !<h V.orld l'uhhrullum. 416 O.,mith \'-· \chtntfet!ld), '\' r'no<: j (J70-S41U)- l.ntered tn llu \chenrctad) , ... ,, Office 9' ... PCHild nu\ , Matter. Subscription Rate 3S cent.'i per copy, $10. a year delivered j anywhere in the United States. r' a.nd the fact whole situation was- @i~ha.ndled. Yes, ~hey ~ _ - wining: to rectify the s-i tuatim'G'_ or eyen compromise on their position. They have doeci®d that not housing fres..hmell:, p-n . L(}nox . Road . is the overriqing. ; .. issue in this contr.qveray, and''· they are willing to u~e. -#11--J. .qreans to ~:qps. tll~tU: JRg:r~.;f>':f!:;i:;_::·-,~:::~;;.:~'1 Yot Wests 29. AI cue, \Woo more morni tequil. and 11 entire the st So generc them Dowli Soci: Comr of \ indep1 have Wests West all wt mone: will ' uniqu Ou: perf01 rangi1 ot Ch Aces who~ and c was versa I Enser perfo1 blueg anyth by ~ Oo: two Colle! the ~ hours such above This rewar Colle: the d Allen Colle. unde1 Fasse two sched tourtc won'l unde1 Th Vene throu de 1 Cons tour the 1 choir Cara· Azor while

W eststock. 0 1 nly Ten. Days A.way You should be getting excited. W~ststock is on the way, M~y 28 .. 29. An all day, all~mpus, bar-b- cue, Union entertainment and, ~·woodstock,\ from ten to one . . - , roo~ entertainment until 6 ill the l;ll(>rning, and finally .a donut and tequila sunrise breakfast. Beef and munchies wjU be serv.ed the ent-ire night A free festival under the stats with Union stars .. So many people have been generous, it's impossible to list tnem all. Dean Smith, Suzanne Dowling, Angelo Mazzone> the Social Committee, Film Committee, several lt.A. 's, loa«ts of West students, floors of indepen«tents, many fraternities, have aU combined to make Weststo.;k a ,:elebration. The West R.A.'s wotJld like to thank all who have donated· time and/or money, and hope _mere groups will volunteer donations. to this unique event. Our biggest -thanks go to the p¢rfortners~ there are 19 acts, ranging from the Sha-N a-Na style of Chet Arthur and The Flaming Aces (alumni from two years ago who got caught up in a -time warp and dress, sing, and live as if it ; was 1951) to the swinging versatility of the Union Jazz Ensemble. Of course, we'll have perfotmers doing folk, electric, bluegrass, well · in a festival anything gpes. At present, d u.e to unavailability of power in West, the festival .may be held in front of the Nott, Library Plaza and ~he steps of the Library as a stage. Next week, Concordy w.iU print a 1 complete ·schedule and pfOgram of performers and whether we'll party at West Beach or in .Library Plaza. No matter, a Union ali- college festival is coming. We will all be there under the stars thr a night ot Gamet history, statting Saturday, May 28 with an an.,. campus Bar-b-Cue and ending, who knows When? Monday is a. holiday. Concordy's Ben 6;-eenlnter~iews Jqck Pitney ·Concordy With Jack Pitney by BEN GREEN and recipient of the coveted Danforth !red. sneakers and cut-off shorts, DENi$J£ WACliTENHElM Fellowship, plans to attend Yale ·and seated next to his in t:he {all, where he will pursue omnipresent black briefcase, Russell Baker, Kate Millet, M oshe Dayan. Avid CONCORD.Y readers will recall these are a few .of the renowned persons Jack Pitney has. intervieWed in the past three years for CONCORDY. With graduation around the comer, tONCORDY decided to interview ''The Master Interviewer;\ a celebrity in his own right. graduate work in political science. ·Pitney discussed his passi<Jnate , Eventually, .he sa'id, a position as , interests. Among them are Clint a ·oollege poli. sci. professor at an Eastwood movies, Marvel comics,. institution like Union would be and sunning <Jn Library Plaza·. He his aspiration. Holding public noted his current endeavors are office does not appeal to Pitney, , producing 8 mm western movies but he would consider a ••man , and acquiring proficiency on the behind the scenes\ role much like tennis c9urt. Although he Col<Jnel House was to Ptesident professes non-vi<Jlence_, Jack Woodrow Wilson. (for all you ·admits tt> viewing Dirty Hal'ry poli. sci. buffs) nine times. When asked about - This interview attempticf to this apparent inconsistency, Pitney, a valedictoria~, winner gain insight into the other side of Pitney replied. that he was merely of numerous college awards and ••acadennc\ Jack· Pitney~ Clad in ·~exorcising the demons\ within .him. Recollecting his life and times at Union College, Pitney revealed the secrets of his success I''Throating.\ He finds dormitory 1 living inconducive to his studies land opts to live as a tenant close to campus. Due .to his landlady's cacophonous trumpeting, Pitney, demanding total quiet, abodes in Ia sound-proofed room. Recalling Freshman year; his strategy was Glee Club Prepares For Trip characterized by weekly all- nighters and an \over kill\ attitude. After PS-1 0, he became more \self-<:ritical\ and self- confident. With less effort, he was able to produce the same successful results. It was necessary, he admitted, to forego social involvement in pursuit of his academic int~rests. by KAREN SJLVERSTE~~ Donde esta el servicio? Thirty- two members of the Union College Men;s Glee Club are in the process of taking, fourteen hours of Spanish lessons to learn such. important questions as the above. (Where is the bathroom?) This intensive training has its rewards. On June 15th, the Union College Men's Glee Club, under the direction of Professor Hugh All~n Wilson, and the Wheaton College Women's Glee Club, under the «tirection of · Charles Fassett, will fly to Venezuela fer tWo weeks. With a rigorous schedule of thirteen concerts in fourteen days. the . Glee Club won;t have much time to bask under the South American sun. The plans for ·touring Venezuela were f01:mulated through Sra. Mercedes Bermudez de Meyer of the Venezuelan Consulate in Boston. the musical. tour of Venezuela is dedicated to the memory of the Orfeon, the choir of the Central University of Caracas, which ctasbed in the Azores in- September. o~ !976 while en route to a <?On';petitio~ in Barcelona. Ac:cording to Glee Club Al'though food, housing, and President Don Dennis, the . transportation are being provided president of Venezuela may be by the Venezuelan govemm~nt present at the conce11 which will via the Central University an~f ~he be .P~rformed in the Cathedral of Venezuelan Airforce, the trip Caracas. Also, Rosalyn Carter should not be construed as will be in the capital of Venezuela politically motivated. Instead, the during the Glee Club•s ,stay there. tour is regarded. as part of a :According to Professor Wilson, universty exchange, with Dr. ' Mrs. Carter will be invited to Jesus Morales-Valarino formerly ·attend the opening performance. of the Central University The Glee Club will not be administration, .assisting With the limiting its talents to Caraca:~. arrangements of the tour. This is just the beginning of the The concerts begin in Caraeas, trip, which will spread the where the Glee Club will meet remaining concerts among five four members of the new Orfeon. otll:er Venezuelan cities, circling While in Venezuela, the Glee Club the (:ountry, and eventually will be accompanied l)y the returning to the capital. Some of Orfeon members, and possibly by . the performance will be held in ·sra. ·Meyer, herself. Professor conjunction with Venezuelan Wilson stressed the tremendous festival!i and ceremonies. cultural opportunities of having The repertoire of the concerts Union students ·come into contact will be similar to the program with the Venezuelan students, beard at the Glee Club's most · especially within the context of recent performance at Union, on . stu«tent dedication to . musical , May 6th, with the addition of activity at a high level. Professor '.such music as the Venezuelan Wibon also. mentioning the National Anthem, the University possibility .. of Onion hosting the Hymn, and the ·Venezuelan Orfeon, if the group should Airforce Hymn. The Venezuelans qedde to tour the United States, requested a. program thus ·completing the exchange. representative of American music, Pitney, challenged hy a \terrific Games, Both of these activities Political Science department,\ greatly aided trip arrangements. wrote his senior thesis about the Glee Club President Don Dennis current phenomenon of televised was particularly appreciative of presidential press conferences. President Bonner and Coach Since little published material Harkness' support. With these existed, he drew inferences from funds, as well as the Ven~zuelan news conference transcripts, a government's contributions, Glee ·formidable task. In addition to Club members will only have to , his scholarly work, he enjoys finance plane fare and any talking p<Jiitics. Representing a additional personal costs. conservative position, he has a Although the concert schedule basic mistrust for President is a rough one, the Glee Club • Carter. An analogy is drawn by members will be sure to have a 1 him between Jimmy Carter~s and good time. Not only are 1 Woodrow Wilson's \compulsive numerous receptions planned for I moralism and relentless self- the group, but there are two : i~provement rhetoric.\ . relatively free days which will 1 allow the Glee Club members time to sight-see, and perhaps spend a day at the beach, or the Andes. So, if you see a male student mumbling verb conjugations under his. breath, you'll know he isn't taking Spanish 10. He's one of the thirty•two Union Men's Glee Club members boning up on his survival Spanish for the Venezuela trip. Be sure to say Hola! and wish him un bueil viaje! In his concluding remarks, he , mused about his personal • preferences. \My fantasy is to j dress as Spiderman and poWder 1 my feet . ., An ideal evening, I according . to \The Pit,\ inc-ludes playing the kazoo, eating Big I Macs; and watching Mary Tyler ·Moore. Thus, Jack Pitney exemplifies a blend of academic excellence and vi brant· personality. I CONCORDY wishes him the best of luck in the future. Watson Fellowship and thus, the Glee Club will be perfortning·such diverse selections as \The E-RI-E\ by Elliot Forbes, and •• April is in my Mistress' Face\ by Thomas Morley, to Roger andHammerstein's .. Thereis It is ex;pected that in the Fall but a good record in the Nothin' like a Dame\ and term the Coilege will again be sophomore and junior years sdections form Leonard invited to nominate four , certamly helps. Ihe 1--ellowships Bernstein's ''West Side Story\. candidat.es for Watson 1 are worth $7,000 (or $9;500 tor The tour was put together by FelloWships. The intention of the married students). mu.ch hard work. Professor program . is to give Fellows an The College will have to submit Wilson and Charles Fassett are opportumty immediately after the names of its candidates to the largely resp<Jnsible for th~ trip, · grad~ation to spen~ a year I Foundation by November I, and Professor Wislon has already . outs1de North_ ~~enca on a . 1977, and the process of choosing flowll to Venezuela twice to iron focused and d1sctplined year of -~I its candidates Will therefore have 'out details and to finalize plans. ~heir own devising. It is not to start very early in the Fall ln addition, Glee Club President tnte~ded ~ha_t the year's term. In consequence it is most IJ()n Dennis and Jim Lawles_s expenence will mvQlve ex.ten. ~ed I important tha. t membe~s of the (who has worked on the more fo~mal. study _at a foretgn ~lass of 1978 who are mterested technical aspects of the trip, such um~e.rs1ty, but It s~ould be a m the program should start as passports .anQ shots) are to be p~oJect capabl~ of bemg .pursued· · thinking about it now. In thanked for their efforts wtth great Independence and · particular they should give their . Furthermore., initi~l trip : flexib!li~y, All graduating seniors . names as soon as possible to the expenses such h all : are ebgtble regardless of sex~ age, Campus Liaison officer for the · ' · as P ·one c s, I race nationality underoraduate . prog· ram, P. rofessor D. W. Reece new .-nusic, and mailings, were ' . · · ' . . · eo \ • ~ paid for. by President Bonner's j· progr~m .. or ~revtous· ,orem.n. ' (Humanities Building 215E), who ·• 'H~>'U. \, ........ ,.\\,'it. :V ,::,;d.ror._ · , ··t. ,.t ·d .expet1~~c!e. The overall academtc •Will be happy. to. pmvide further , , . \· Ow~N•~ .va:. ·;,. '8u , ..... oa:cn x ... e · · · d f . d.d. · h d ·1 . i · · · · ·, llad' , t~ ~~ 1 :· ~ ... ~ , .Li _, .t:F.. k';, i ;re~o~ .. ~ a. ca~ t ate 1s not t e . etal s and d scuss thear projec.:s '/'ll~'z'..-IIJI4!1t.'W.ll.t-on ~ ~.~.J>._,_._ .. '::-, .. ,~, ... \~:~~-'.•';,.~~~~:,~~~m\~~:~'?_C .. \'Y .prdtctpal· cntetton for $election,·\';'with:them ... ~,,,.,,,.

... W eststock 0 nly Ten Days A way You should he gettmg cx.cited. Weststock is on the way, May 28- 29. An all day, all-campus, bar-b- cue, Union entertainment and, \Woodstock from ten to one, more entertainment until 6 in the morning, and finally a donut and tequila sunrise breakfast. Beer and munchies wiii be served the entire mght. A free festival under the stars with Union stars. At present. due to unavailability ot power m West, the festival may be held in front of the Nott, Library Plaza and the steps ol the Library as a stage. Next week, Concordy will print a complete schedule and program of performers and whether we'll party at West Heach or in Library Plaza. No matter, a Union all- college lestlval IS coming. We will all be there under the stars tor a night ot Garnet history, starting Saturday, May 28 with an all- campus Bar-b-Cue and ending, who knows when'? Monday is a holiday. CONCORDIENS!S, Mat. 18, 1977 q' .;,~\:t{f~i~ ·:: -> ~~\j:{. ;:: --;:. .. ~ ·-;·~if -:;f~~--··· ':>.1::.;' 'ifp · ... · -~')#Pe -.:::. .. t~ . ; Concordy's Ben Cd'een Interviews Jack Pitney Page3 , .. '!w>'-'- s:~-~ ~: .; __ ~::L.~- So many people have been generous, 1t's impossible to list them all. Dean Smith, Suzanne Dowling, Angelo Mazzone, the Social Committee, Film Committee, several R.A.'s, loads of West students, floors of independents, many fraternities, have all combined to make W eststock a celebration. The West R.A.'s would like to thank all who have donated time and/ or money, and hope more groups will volunteer donations to this unique event. Concordy With Jack Pitney Our biggest thanks go to the performers, there are 19 acts, ranging trom the Sha-Na-Na style ot Chet Arthur and l\he Flaming Aces (alumni tram two years ago who got caught up in a time warp and dress, sing, and live as if it was 1957) to the swingmg versatility of the Union Jazz Ensemble. Of course, we'll have performers doing tolk, electric, bluegrass, well m a festival anything goes. by BEN GREEN and DENlSE W ACHTENHEIM Russell Baker, Kate Millet, Moshe Dayan. Avid CONCORDY readers will recall these are a few of the renowned persons Jack Pitney has interviewed in the past three years for CONCORDY. With graduation around the corner, CONCORDY decided to interview \The Master Interviewer,\ a celebrity in his own right. Pitney, a valedictorian, winner of numerous college awards and recipient of the coveted Danforth Fellowship, plans to attend Yale in the fall, where he will pursue graduate work in political science. Eventually, he said, a position as a college poli. sci. professor at an institution like Union would be his aspiration. Holding public office does not appeal to Pitney, but he would consider a \man behind the scenes\ role much like Colonel House was to President Woodrow Wilson. (for all you poli. sci. buffs) This interview attempted to gain insight into the other side of \academic\ Jack Pitney. Clad in red sneakers and cut-off shorts, and sea ted next to his omnipresent black briefcase, Pitney discussed his passionate interests. Among them are Clint Eastwood movies, Marvel comics, and sunning on Library Plaza. He noted his current endeavors are producing 8 mm western movies and acquiring proficiency on the tennis court. Although he professes non-violence, Jack admits to viewing Dirty Harry nine times. When asked about this apparent inconsistency, Pitney replied that he was merely ··exorcising the demons\ within him. Recollectir1g his life and times at Union College, Pitney revealed the secrets of his success \Throating.\ He finds dormitory living inconducive to his studies and opts to live as a tenant close to campus. Due to his land lady's cacophonous trumpeting, Pitney, demanding t<>tal quiet, abndes in a sound-proofed room. Recalling Freshman year, his strategy was characterized by weekly all- nighters and an .. over kill\ attitude. After PS-10, he became more \self-critical\ and self- confident. With less effort, ne was able to produce the same Glee Club Prepares For Trip successful results. It was necessary, he admitted, to fmego social involvement in pur~ul! of his academtc mterests. by KAREN SILVERSTEIN Donde esta el serv1c1o'! lhirty- two members ot the Union College Men's Glee Club are in the process of taking fourteen hours ol Spanish lessons to learn such important questwns as the above. (Where is the bathroom'!) This intensive traimng has its rewards. On June 15th, the Union College Men's Glee Club, under the direction of Professor Hugh Allen Wilson, and the Wheaton College Women's Glee Club, under the direction of Charles Fassett, will t1y to Venezuela tor two weeks. With a rigorous schedule ot thirteen concerts in fourteen days, the Glee Club won't have much time to bask under the South American sun. The plans tor touring Venezuela were tormulated through Sra. Mercedes Bermudez de Meyer of the Venezuelan Consulate in Boston. The musical tour ot Venezuela is dedicated to the memory of the Orteon, the choir of the Central University of Caracas, which crashed in the Azores in September of 1976 while en route to a competition in Barcelona. Allhough food, housing, and transportation are being provided by the Venezuelan government via the Central University and' the Venezuelan Airforce, the trip should not be construed as politically motivated. Instead, the tour is regarded as part of a universty exchange, with Dr. Jesus Morales-Valarino formerly of the Central Cniversity administration, assisting with the arrangements of the tour. The concerts begin in Caracas, where the Glee Club will meet four members of the new Orfeon. While in Venezuela, the Glee Club will be accompanied by the Orfeon members, and possibly hy Sra. Meyer, herself. Professor Wilson stressed the tremendous cultural opportunities of having Union students come into contact with the Venezuelan students, especially within the context of student dedication to musical activity at a high level. Professor Wilson also mentioning the possibility of Union hosting the Orfeon, if the group should decide to tour the United States, thus completing the exchange. .Glee Club. Director. Prof~ Hugh Alle,;_ Wilson According to Glee Club President Don Dennis, the president of Venezuela may be present at the concert which will be performed in the Cathedral of Caracas. Also, Rosalyn Carter will be in the capital of Venezuela during the Glee Club's stay there. According to Professor Wilson, Mrs. Carter will be invited to attend the opening performance. The Glee Club will not be limiting its talents to Caracas. This is just the beginning of the trip, which will spread the remaining concerts among five other Venezuelan cities, circling the country, and eventually returning to the capital. Some of the performance will be held in conjunction with Venezuelan festivals and ceremonies. The repertoire of the concerts will be similar to the program heard at the Glee Club's most recent performance at Union, on May 6th, with the addition of such music as the Venezuelan National Anthem, the University Hymn, and the Venezuelan Aidorce Hymn. The Venezuelans requested a program representative of American music, and thus, the Glee Club will be performing such diverse selections as \The E-RI-E\ by Elliot Forbes, and ''April is in my Mistress' Face\ by Thomas Morley, to Roger and Hammerstein 's \There is Nothin' hke a Dame\ and selections torm Leonard Bernstein's \West Side Story\. I he tour was put together by much hard work. Prolessor Wilson and Charles rassett are largely responsible lor the tnp, and Professor Wtslon has already llown to Venezuela twtce to tron out details and to finahte plans. in additiOn, Glee Club President Don Dennts and Jtm Lawless (who has worked on the nwre technical aspects of the trip, such as passports and shots} are to be thanked tor theu eltorts. 1--urthermore. Initial tnp expenses. such as phone calls. new mus1c, and mathngs, were patd for lly President Ronner's Hallo'Wee'n Party, and Coach !'led Harkness' Inter Squad Hockey ' . I t ~ ' • Games. Both of these actiVIties greatly aided trip arrangements. Glee Club President Don Dennis was particularly appreciative of President Bonner and Coach Harkness' support. With these funds, as well as the Venezuelan government's contributions, Glee Club members will only have to finance plane fare and any additional personal costs. Although the concert schedule is a rough one, the Glee Club members will be sure to have a good time. Not only are numerous receptions planned for the group, but there are two relatively free days which will allow the Glee Club members time to sight-see, and perhaps spend a day at the beach, or the Andes. So, if you see a male student mumbling verb conjugations under his breath, you'll know he isn't taking Spanish 10. He's one of the thirty-two Union Men's Glee Club members boning up on his survival Spanish for the Venezuela trip. Be sure to say Hola! and wish him un buen viaje! Pitney, challenged by a \terrific Political Science department.\' wrote his senior thesis a bout the current phenomenon of televised presidential press conferences. Since little published rna terial existed, he drew inferences from news conference tra nscript:s. a formidable task. In addlti<-,n to his scholarl~' work. he enjoys talking politics. Representing a conservative position, he Ius a basic mistrust tor Pre<>ident Carter. An analogy is drawn hy him between Jimmv Carter's and Woodrow Wilo;on'~ .. compulsive moralism and relentless self- improvement rhetonc \ In hts concludmg remark~. he mused about h1:. per~onal preferences. ..M} tantas} i:. to dress as Sptderman and. po~der my teet.\ An idea 1 eve nmg. accordmg to \I he Pit,\ tnclude~ playmg the kazoo, eaung Htg Macs, and watchmg Mal) I) ler Moore. l hus, Jack Pttney exempldtes a blend ol academl(; excellence:: and vibrant personality. CONCORD\' w1shes him the best of luck in the future. Watson Fellowship It 1s expected that in the Fall term the Coilege will again he mv1ted to nominate lour candidates tor Wat~on Fellowships. Ihe intention ol the program is to give Fellows an opportunity immediatelv after graduation to spend ·a year ouhidc \iorth America on a lncused and d1sc1phned year lll the1r own devising. It 1s not mtended that the year·., expenence will involve extended formal <>tudy at a foreign umversity, hut it should he a proJect capable elf being pursued with great independence and flexibility. All graduating seniors arc l.'ligihle regardless of sex. age, race, natinnality, utH.lcrgraduatc program 01 prcvillUS lorctgn c.'l\pt:llencc. I he overall al:adclllll: rewui ol a ~anutdate lS not the principal criterion for selection, but a good record m the sophom11rc and JUnlnr ~can cerlainl} help~ I he hlltw. o,h1p~ are worth $7.000 (nr $1,\,)(10 tnr ma rncd 'tude nts J !he Colkge 111.111 ha•t: \(> \LJhmtt the namt'\ ''' It' cand1dato t(• thL· Foundatton h\ '\o\cmher I 1977. and the p~,,,·c~' ul .. :h,•··~~n~ II!-> <.'CITIOICJatL'~ \\-lll thcrch'll\ h,t\c' to ~tan \Cr} carl~ 111 the f· all term In consc4Uencc I! !~ mt1Sl important that mcmhrr-. ,>t the Class nf I 47H who arc 1 ntcrestt•d m the prClgram ~ht>uld ~tart thinking ahnut it !10\\ In particular the~ ~h,,uiJ gi't' tht'l! names a~ soon as poss11llc 1~1 the C\amru~ I 1.1 j,.,n pfficrr l,ll t hr pr;•gt.tlll, l'r~.llo~uJ I) v..· Kreu· (Hum.tni!ICI lludd111g .::151), \tw Wtil he h.tpp) lU p1t11.1lk IU!tlllCI t.ietatls and !JISCUl!S lhf.lll pa..lJC~LS with them.

. ~ ! . Page4 CONCORDIENSI$, May 18~ 1977 culture Billy Joet live in Achilles Rink Billy Joel. Appears live Saturday night at Achilles Rink ever been privileged to see. a disappointing crowd of .slightly The . evening's lone act, Billy over 2,000 witnessed a Joel, started off his show with the consummate entertainer_ Billy rollicking, \I've Seen the Lights Joel brought in a four pie<:e band · Go Out on Broadway~\ proceeded and put on one of the finest through tfieentlreteperto~reof .his concerts Union College fans have Gold Album, \Ptano Man,\ lam alone but, / ; quipped with the crowd, danced in the ~isles, and performed no less than three encores. His band was. tight ana rocked when it was supposed to or backed up when called on. Renditions of \Billy the Kid,\ \Say Goodbye to Hollywood,\ \Werse Comes to Worse,'' and •• Angry ¥ oung Man\ were excellent. The crowd responded ecstatically, applauding, rushing to the stage, and calling for encores.. Perhaps the best thing one can say about the concert is that if you listen to stereos. in dormitory hallways or to WR U C, Billy Joel albums are being. played frequently. In the concert business, that's called success. Film Com·mittee A~ .some .of you know, the Filltl Committee has taken much grief not dl of wbich is deserved, It is true that at times publicity regarding the movies has been somewhat insufficient, but that has for the most .part been taken care of. The other, more serious and more frequent, complaint has been about the projection of the movies themselves. The prqjec;tcrs are not in the best of condition for the continual use they receive~ the sound system leaves much to be desire(i, and the screen is of poor quality .and too small to show cinetnascQpe (wide screen) movies properly. Discussions h~ve ~en held with tbe people in . cha·rge of the facilities and several solutions are- possible:. Fint,. a new $Creen is being ord¢red .and . installed this snmmer. There is the distinct possibility that the projec~ors ·will be renovated or repl&ced, and a complete overhaul and repairing· of the sound system wiU be accomplished. Meanwhile, on a happier nQte, . the fllm· schedule for the Fatl Term has been arranged and book:.e<,l .and loQks as follows: WEE'KENDS Thund~rball Lawrence of Arabia The Hattad Experiment The Shootist Mauder By Death XXX Magnum Force Rcxky Car;ie Silent Movie TUESDAY NIGHTS Take the Money k Run Fillmore Sah!l.,. A FIUllly Tbing ·~on the •• Forum Lords o( Flatbysh Night of. the Uvillg Dead Wait Until Da.-k. BreW8tt!r .McCloud Endless S~unmer Some of the films may change due to availability, such: a$ the triple X. Descriptions, alot;lg with the ·dates will be available at the · beginning of the term. Thank you. Coffeehouse Presents Don D.'asaro On Friday, May 20, the Coffeehouse will be presenting to the- Union College community musician Dan D'asaro. Da!l is a Buffalo-based pe.rformer who spends his time t~aveling through much of the northeast of the United States, playing b1>th traditional and contemponuy music to audiences while accompanying himself on guitar. A speciaL student act lias been practicing very hard and will be used to warm up the show. This event .will be taking place at 8:30 p.m. this Friday in the Old Chapel.. Come visit us and be a part of the audience.' where have they all gone? they went with the wind wrapped up in the turm<Jil of their own lives failin.g to see . . . One person who was always there Outdoor Beer ·and Band:, Blast waiting ... to sh.are their lives with ·them but, they failed to see 1 arn alone - J. L. G. Congratulations to Ed Rayher and Piedmont for their priZes in the Atn:erican Academy of Poets Contest! Send your poems to Delanne Stagernan, Fine Lines Editor, Box 1738. Any legible work is welcome. Please give your name and phone no.; poems will be printed unsigned if requested. Let's hear from :you! PARTY OF THE YEAR· THIS WEEKEND! FOR.LIQUOR \ AND WINE Try Jake Lip stein's 464 State Street 374-1888 I I .. - ... Here it comes ..... the 5th· · annual Chi Psi Charity Farty. The theme is Hollywooll. The .r.:auses: the Nati~Hlal Hemophilia Foundatioll and the Dystonia Foundation. Break out those costume11 and at 9:00 p.m., Saturday niJbt at the Chi Psi Lodge beeonu.l that atar your mother always said !fOU were. MADISON'S TYPING SERVICE j I 1 ~ I J ! I • Reports • Manuscripts • ·Thesis • Resuntes This Friday night, May 20. the· brothers of Phi Sigma Kappa, Zeta· Beta Tau and the sisters of' S,igma Delta Tau will hqst the First Annual Back To The Basics· Outdoor Beer and Band Blast in . the courtyard between fox artd Davidson. No costumes, dams or · peanuts 'required at this party; There will be Las 'Vegas style gambling, a shot bar complete with a pianist ~Mlting out your favorites on the keyboard and a Hollywood dance that would amaze the 1 Jet Set itself. to add 11. littie kick to the evening, there wiiJ be 25 kegs and a Star St11dded · .Prompt Service J - · l' ~A.C'.E .. EXAM l-unch. ·T. h. e donation I~ S. 3.00 . . R. easonable Rat\\\' . . Th P A C E E il·t· \\,;. ,. eh t Astai It , ..,., ~ . e . . . . . . xam - w . ·U.. .. ~=l;y· :::. y ~. scor~e, of ·~:~~: . ·. : 433 Liberty St: , 372:S841 · ' iven ~n Sitfurday; ·~ay '21; 1977 i... ts ill ... _ th 't ·1· · , rom 8.30 a.m. to 2.30 p.m. \\~ou w uc ere; won you ._ __ s ... c ... b ... e_n_ect_• .... d .... Y __ ...., ll. 1 ...... ••••••• of · rain will be held 'in Fox Lounge; So come on down, help . us · op.en our houses and' have a dynamite time i.n the proeess. That's Friday night, May 20, 9 •p.ni., between :Fox and Davidson is the spot; and come primed for a just the ba~;e requirements ·or a · good time - beet, people, aad live music from TILT, a band that's played repeatedly at RPI, making their Union debut. The party, of co\urse is free,. and a good time is'guaranteed for .all, or double your money back. 'The band starts at 9 p.m., and in case · good time.. . . . . . - ... ;\( ______ _ .SENIORS; Order yow '77 j Union Book· now in the .Student\ Activities -omce. The , ' '8~dl( ~ wiR • 'ebSt • s~too · ·n.t ·Seniors and $8.00 · for all · otb~rs. LUKE~S. SU_!ERMAR!C~! . · 830 EASTERN AVE. , • • .fh\M-:l:0.~M.· /(·PA.Y1i. ·. ·Full line of deU; told beer ~tnd soda, ~roc1u1=e and grocery. . ' ' ' \ . ' '; R«i Are the I Mon avail daily ft( is n< Tom inno· Millf act01 cost1 imp contc at U Mod Yc kind to E wee~ be s1 FOl Ros• Are Sum the J \1 mUSi Cab: \ bel thil of ••th 1 \th An imJ on a l1 M~ Ric fac Pel p.ll Co. I s s ~ c I I \ ~ J 5 ( I I

a a 9 a CONCORDIENSIS, May 18, 1977 Page5 Get Your Tickets Now R«»seQcranfz and GuildeQstem Are Dead opens Friday night in the Nott, arid will play through Monday, May 23rd. Tickets are available in, the Nott Box Office daily from l-5. Rosencranlz and Guiltlenstern is not by Shakespeare. It is by Tom Stoppard. It is a creative, innovative show, directed by Joe;: Millett. It does have talen,ted actors, unusual stage, lighting and costume design, and live improvised music. 1t is contemporary theatre right here at Union College. That's correct. Modern theatre at Union. You don't want to miss this kind of production. You do want to get tickets early, before the weekend. Because you do want to be sure .of your seat at one. of the FOUR performances. Remember: Rosencrantz and Guildenstern Are Dead, Friday, Saturday, Sunday, 'imd Monday nights irt the Nott at 8:00. Fantasticks \The Fantasticks,'' the spring musical opened Monday in the Cabaret. If you missed that performance (and even if you didn't), ticket$ are available for Wed. the 18th, Thurs. the 19th, Tues. the 24th, Wed. ,t.te 25th, and Thurs. the 26th. Just stop in the Student Activities Office the next time you're in Carnegie after looking to see if you've gotten any mail, and take your choice of nights. BUT; you'd better hurry, because the house only seats 70 people and tickets are going fast. \ \Fantasticks~· at Union is the brainchild of Marshall Wisoff, Glenn Wolfson, David ~ederkramer and Art Bragg. They've been working with The Cast, The Musicians, and The Lighting Crew all term. A lot of talent and a lot of time has gone into this production (as with every other production this term). And now is your chance to see \The Fantasticks\ done as you've never seen it done before, and will never see again. It's an excellent show. Come and share it with \The Fantasticks.\ Shows are the 18th-19th, and the 24th-27th, at 8:30 in the Cabaret. Chinese 'Thought Reform' \·Bad actions,\ the Chinese believe, are the result of incorrect thinking. Therefore, a central part of any correctional process is ••thought reform.\ To shed light on just what such .. thought reform\ involves, an American woman who was imprisoned four years in China on espionage charges will deliver a lecture oil the subject Tuesday, May 24 at Union College. Adele Rickett, now a member of the faculty at the University of' Pennsylvania, will speak at 8:30 p.m. in Strauss Lounge of the College Center. Prof. Rickett and her husband BAND PARTY Sponsored by International Student ASsociation. Come dressed up as you llave secretly desired. ENJOY OUR INTERNATIONAL· EXOTIC MIXED DRINKS. DANCE TO THE TUNES OF . \EARTH BORN.\ OLD CHAPEL - SAT., MAY 21, 1977, at 9:00 - ADMISSION: 50¢, DRINKS: SGe, PRIZE FOR BEST COSTUME. ·0· UN ION COLLEGE PUS RESTAURANT went to Peking in 1948 on Fullbtight fellowships as graduate students in Chinese. Both wer~ imprisoned on espionage charges from 1951 to 1955. After their 'release and their return to the U.S., they continued graduate work on China. Both now teach at the University of Pennsylvania. P.rof. Rickett's lecture is sponsored by Union's Comparative Communist Studies Program. Be.·~ .5 ~ cultu.re \Fresh choreographed by Hollie Anne Wannamaker Kineticompany Theatre· On May 21 and May 22 the Kineticompany Dance Theatre; a Boston based dance troupe, will be giving two performances in the Albany area. The company returns after two successful concerts last June with new- and original works. This energetic young troupe is comprised of seven dancers all of whom are working cooperatively to explore personal artistic growth, and expand the appreciation of dance in areas where it is not always accessible. This season's program will consist of six new pieces all varying in style, approach and humor, choreographed by company members. Kineticompany tries to appeal to Support The Nott Memorial The Notfs utilitarian (Though $tructurally, mammarian); It rises to majestic heights Quite far above the City's lights And many a young man's dreams of lust Are formed around her stony bust; And many's the night the Moon wouldst sit Enthroned upon that wind-swept tit. 0 nippled nymph! 0 breastlike bliss, Thou timeless virgin: chaste, unkissed! They say dear Nott is sagging; I guess 'tis true: One hundred years without a bra And you'd Be sagging Too. Richard Draeger I ~ wide range of tastes aiming to leave their audiences with an aura of enthusiasm for dance. Performances will be held May 21st in the Union College Alumni Gymnasium at 8:00 p.m., and May 22nd in the Capital District Psychiatric Center Auditorium (75 New Scotland Ave., Albany) also at 8:00 p.m. There will be a meeting of · all juniors Monday, May 23 at . 4:00 p.m. in SS 016 to discuss · post-graduation plans for jobs . and graduate and professional 1 ·schools. Application procedures for named F~llowship programs wiD also be discussed by the , · appropriate faculty advisors. It ' is extremely important that ! · you attend this meeting if you I. have any interest in applying i. for a Fellowship. Preliminary work on the application form over tile summer will result in a better quality presentation - of crucial importance in o.btaining these competitive Fellowships. Unio~ Pharmacy From Aprill through June 14, you can fly roundtrip from New York to Luxembourg for only $410 . That's $89 less than the youth fare you'd pay on any other scheduled airline. (From Chicago you pay $458 thru April 30 and $430 from May 1 thru June 14.) All you have to do is be under the age of 26. fiOO Union St. Men & Women Student Needs There are no booking restrictions. We give you the same service you'd get from other airlines, without the same high costs. SO, if you're not flying Icelandic to Europe, you're spending more than you have to. We'll give you the best deal on fares and on our New Horizon Escorted Tours, too. v.r TUES G& T $.75 Save $89 on jet fares to Europe a,nd book c SCHENECTADY, N.Y. IZ30& 1-i()LLQW . THURS .FRl&SAT IT AllAN NIGHT STEAK & BREW anytime you want. r-----------------~---~ Icelandic Airlines, Dept. #CN .. I P.O. Box 105, West Hempstead, N.Y. 11552 I I See your travel agent. Or call toll free: (800) 555-1212. I 1 Ple~se send information on Icelandic's low-cost fares and New 1 I Honzon Escorted Tours of Europe. I I Name I I I ~~~ I ,Happy Hour Friday 4:30·6:30 ' - . ~ ~---. . .. All House .Drinks $.60 I City State . Zip . J I_Fare:_:u~~~~~~~~·~P,_!V~ __ ..._ ______ _j Icelandic . . ' ' ' ,, '' I • • ... FREE CH.EESE & CRACKERS . ,L~~~s~ J~t fares to Europt!. of .any ~(;hed\lled a.irline . ~ r ' t .. . . . • j • \ it ~ _, \' • I ' ' ' \,', ',.· ... ,~ .... :.-.\it':-\'.~ <o 'I;,._~~-~.: _..,,,,~'\.\~·\ ... •\\o.,'•-''A \ .~ • ; : I • ~ . . • I ~ ,t ' • ! 0 • I ' ,·, ...

Page6 IMPORTANT: This exam schedule is for regular, ~'day\ undergraduate courses. A separate schedule for Graduate Studies and Continuing Education courses will be d d · 14 S ·· 51\ announced, an stu · .ents m ection .. courses should be alert for the announce .. ment of the exam time for those courses.) Conflicts in examinati()ns should be reported to Mrs. Lapidus in the Office of , the Registrar not later than Wednesday, May 25, 1977. Examinations will be held in the assigned rooms. Listed below is the code of the buildings to be used. AB -.· .· Arts Building BH -. Hailey Hall BU -··Butterfield Hall HU -· Humanities Building NW -. · Science-.Engineering Center (North Wing) PY -. Psychology Laboratory SS -· · Social Sciences Building SH -. Steinmetz Hall CONCOR.DIENSJS, May 18, /9 1 7 Comp. Ed .. 26 .: SS H5, N. Allen, The Nature ~nd Function of Law Comp. Ed. 44 - OC, Freund, Humanities: E;nlightenmel)t and Romanticism Comp. Ed.. 50 - BU 204, Aubrey, Martin, Dilemmas of Physical Resources Comp. Ed. 59 - AB 104, Galantowicz, Sound and Music Comp. Ed .. 103, HU 110, Blader, Love and Protest in Chinese Literature Comp. Ed .. 104 - H U 0 16; Bynv,m, History of Medical Science Comp. Ed. 114 .. HU 014, Hesford~ Survey of Black American Literature from Henson to Malcolm X Comp. Li~. 44 - OC, Freund, Baroque, Englightenment, and Romanticism Economics 11, Sec. 2 - SS 012, Reynolds, Eie.mentary Economics Economics 157 - SS 010, Ross, Urban and Regional Economics English lS HU 114, Stevenson, Introduction to the Study of .Literary Forms History 138 SS 112, Hansen, Conservatism, Liberalism and Socialism History 159 - SS 113, Berk, The Soviet Period Spanish 131 - HU 117, Ginsberg,, SATURDAY, JUNE 4 Introduction to Spanish-American .. 9:00·11:00 A.M. Literature F .E. 64 - BU 106, D. Stone, Weather and Political Sci. iSS - SS 114, P. Johnson, Climate International Political Behavior Philoso.phy 76 HU 112, Baker, Philosophy of Law ·I Philosophy 81 - HU 112, Baker, ... Selected l'opics in Social and Political Philosophy: ihe Concept of Disease fbilosophy 85 ... HU 110, Peterson, Seminar in Selected Topics Sociology 43 SS 115, Gmelch, Anthropology of Religion Chemistry 162- NW 222, Sheffer, Polymer Chemistry I Psychology SO - PY 213, Girdner, Educational Psychology Engin. Science 14 'Engineering Applications of Digital Compute:rs Sec. l .. SH 106, Chang Sec. 2 - ~H 20 l, Craig Engin. Science 16 .., BU 204, Eisenstadt,. Engineering Graphics and Computers Civil Engin. 43 .. SH 101, Harlow,. Foundations and Concrete Construction Electrical Engin~ 152 - BH 207, Hoffman, Microprocessors and Microc~mputers: Architecture, Programming and Applica- tions A.O.P. GS HU 117, Thornton, Introduction to Intellectual Analysis Comp. Ed. 63 ... SH 106~ Titus, lntro- Sociology 163- SS 117, Weiner, History of MONDAY, JUNE 6 duction to Astronomy Sociological Thou.gbt 2:30·4:00: P.M. Comp. Ed,. 127- SS 016, Reece, Greek Art Biology 153 - BH 205; Tobiessen, F.E. 65, Sec. l ,.. HU 019, Goodheart, and Civilization Advanced Ecology Introduction to Computer Software Classics 24- SS 016~ Reece, Greek Art and Chemistry 134 • BU 106, Hull, Organic F.E. 66 - SH 101, Lichten$tein, Intelligent Civilization Chemistry III Life in the Universe It . al· 1 ·an. 10 .. HU ll2, DiLeonardo, Basic Mathematics 10 - BH 203, Huffman, c· Ed . 2 4 OC F·r· ·e·und. TL.e . · omp. . . · • · · . · - · · . . , . . . . . , u Italian I Calculus 1 Literature of the Bible Philosophy 82 .. HU 110, Enteman, Mat~ematies 130 .. BH 102, G. Reynolds, Comp. Ed. · 1 o 2 .. fiu 110, Marchi, Peterson, Seminar in Major Philosophers: Complex Analysis Philosophers of Marriage Kant Physics 36 ... SH 219, Peak, Methods of Comp. Ed. 1 41 .. HU H5, Thurston, B. P . l\t• a1 ·s· • 11 SS 115 D i l Contem Theoretical Physics · · . · o 11e · c1. · ·- ·. · · · ·. , ·an e s, · ··. · .· - . . :Reynolds, Chma! porary American Politics Psychology 20 \' PY 2-13, Nydegger, E~onomies 10, Sec. I .. SS 012, Ross, A ti · 1 o s 1 BH 108 Kauth Statistical Method~ in Psychology E · ·. ceoun ng · , ec. .. · .· • ' ·. · ' E. . s· • to 8 .. H lOO Sh b k Elementary · .. conorrttcs . Elementary Accou.nting I ngan. elenee ·~- ·.·. · · • · ···~ · ane roo ' Economic~ 11, Sec. 1 - SS 112, Prosper, Biology 13 ... HU 019, Tobiessent Biology ·Biomechanics Elementary Economics of Plants-Core II Civil Engin. 48 - SH 101, Hibbeler, EcC>oomics 144 ... SS 117, Phaup} Inter• Biology IS .. BU 204; Butzel, J. Boyer, Structural Steel national Economics · Genetics and Evolution-Core IV Electrical Engin. 148 - BH 20l, Craig, Economies ISS ... HU 115, Thurston, B. ChemiStry 40 BU ·109, Werner~ Digital Circuits Reynolds, China! Quantitative Chemistry History 75 .. HU 115, Thurston, B. Mathematics 30, Sec. 1 .. BH 207, Zwicker, Reynolds, China! , Ordinary Differential Equations His_tory lll - SS 113, N. Allen, American Mathematics 41 - BH 201, Stone, Linear Constitutiona1 and Legal .History~ The Algebra I State and the Individual .- Mathematics 134 .. BH 20S, Bick, MONDAY, JUNE 6 HistGry 168 ... SS 010, Bristol, The cath<>lic · Differential Equations 9:00·11:00 A.M. Church in Latin America Physics 142 - SH 21?, Swartz, Application · F.E. 65, See. 1 ... BH 104; T. Schwarz~ French 11 .. HU ·-116, Roberts~ Basic of Quantum Mechamcs ·. . Introduction to Gomputer Software French lll Psycbology to,, See. 1 ~ PY 102, Huntley, Comp. Ed. 1%8 .. HU 019, Testroet, Greek German 11 .. HU 112, Klemm, Basic A First Course m Psychology . . and Roman Drama in Translation German II E~gin; Science l4 ... NW 116, Russ, Electric ; Classics 30 _ HU 019, Tes~oet;, Greek and :Russian 12 .. HU· 014, Jernakoff, Basic Ctrcutts I Roman Drama in Translat1on Russian III Civil Engin. 44 .. BH 104,. Mason, · Latin 139 ... I{U 019, Testroet, Romatt Spanish 12 ... ·HU . 117, Ginsberg, Basic Engineering. Planning Satire Spanish 111 History · 115 ... : SS 117, Fisher,. Urban folitieal Sci. 12 \\ SS 014~ P. Johnson, Problems: A Historical Perspective Contemporary International Politics . .. History tlti ... SS 113, Jonas, America's Political S~i •. 185 ... HU 115, Thurston, B. -. . · Rise to W <lrld Power Reynoldst Cbma! . · SATURDAY, JUNE 4 Freneh 134 ... HU 114, Thomas, The Frencb. Soeiology 34 .. SS llS, Weiner, Race and . _ 1:00•4:~0 ··P.M. · . . · · Language~· in Praeti'Oat Use II · .· · ·.. . . . . B,thnic ~tlation~. · : · · . · · · , . . . F.E. 61;.. BH 106, A. Tayl~r, lntr~Q,-uction · 'Pbil~oph~ . 1.1. : HU · ll~, Elliston~ Aecountbtg 10; S·e~·z.:. BH· 201~ !h~m.;m, to Contemporary Mathematics PhilosophJcat ~la:t;~stcs Elementarv Accountmg l :·· ' ·{.;-.. & ··~:r-· .... ;::. Jteco Mam Biolo The< Biolo Anirr Chen Chen Gtol• .Oeolj Man lntro Matt, Ordi1 Matt A bstJ Pbys Intro Seier Maj< Phys ofM Pbys Circt Psyel AFi Psy«!: and l Engi Sciet Engi Flui< Com FOR Com Litet Eco1 Wie~ Eco1 Elen Eco1 Publ Engl Ame Engl Con Hist Pow llist Am~ PbU Met Soti and Bioi Maj Nutl Psy1 inA F.E Wri

r, s: CONCORDLENSJS. May 18, 1977 .;. ~':~~,::;·;., ~/. ~:~ -;-:·: . .- - ·:~.:-~.<.:~.·:.} •. :·::~.:~:,,.·--f~t. -:i:~:~:?fi?:W · .. -~i~f{~f?:m:~~t~:¥:_:~;':··::v=i:,,/=::·::r :~;:>t.:><=''\ ;--- . , .·=::~-- Aecounting 111 - BH 102, Kauth, Comp. Ed.. lft5 - SS 014, Lichterman, Managerial Aspects of Cost Accounting Liberal Education in the United States Biology 12 .. SS 0 16~ Butterstein, G. Smith, Comp~ Ed~ 157 ._ BU 106, D. Stone, The Cell.-Core III Special Topics in Oe<>logy Biology 138 - NW . I Hi, Styles, Biology of Animal Parasites: Helminthology Greek 12 ~ HU {) 14,. Reece, Greek Reading Chemistry 150 - BU 106, Hayes, Physical Latin 12- HU 014, Reece, Latin Readfng Chemistry I Economics 10, s.,c .. \ 2 - SS 117, Kent, Geology It - BH }.04, Major, Historical ~lementary Economics , veology Econom~es 14.3,.. SS 112, Wiese, Economic Mathematics. 18 - BH 106, A. Taylor, Introduction to Logic and Set Theo~y Growth and Development Mathematics 30, Sec. 2 - BH 203, Loullis, Economics 151 - SS 115, Kenney, Ordinary Differential Equations Environmental EcQnomics Mathematics 33 - :BH l 08, Huffman, Abstract Algebra II Physics ll, See. 1 - SH 106, Peak, Introduction to Physics II (For Biology, Science, Humanities and Social Science Majors) Physics 14 ... NW 222, Ohanian, Elements of Modern Physics Physics 22 .~ SH 219, Jones, Electronic Circuits · . Psychology 10, Sec. 2 - PY 113, Downing; A First Course in Psychology Psychology 42 - PY 213, Bashore, Theory and Practice of Mental Testing Engin. Sdence, 22 - BU 204, Milillo, Science of Engineering Materials Engin. Science 33 .,. BH 207, Ketchum, Fluid Systems Analysis Computer Sdente 12 .. BJ,J 109, Tse, FORTRAN. Ptognnnming TUESDAY, JUNE 7 9:00·11:00 A .. M. Comp. Ed. 37 - HU 117, Calabria, Literature .and Psychology Economics 10, Sec. 3 and Sec.. 4 .. SS 115, Wiese; Elert~entary Economics Economies 11, Stc. 3- SS ll3, Kershner, Elementary Economics Economi~s 133 • ss 112, S. Schmidt,· Public Policy and American Industry Englisb 123- HU 112, (}ado, The Modern American Novel English 124 .. HlJ 114~ Wineapple, Contemporary A_merica:n Fiction History 124- SS 117, Fisher, From Slave Power to Black Power History ll9 ... SS OJ2, Finkelstein, American Enterpt'ise Abraad Pbilosopby 43 .. flU 115, R. Taylor, Metaphysics Soeiology 153 .. SS 0 14., Carlile, Innovation and Social Change Biology 140 .. NW 116, Ueorge, Ethology Mathematics 127 - BH 203, Ming, Numerical Analysis· Psychology. 40 .. PY 213, Britain, Seminar in Adolescence TUESDAY~ JlJNE 7 ' - English 122 - HU 112, Gad'o, The American Short Story History 15 - SS 0 12, Jonas, Modern America: The New Deal and After History 114 ... SS 014, Lichterman, Liberal Education in the United States Histor)' 141 liU 115, Hansen, C0nternporary Euro·pe French 130 ... HU 116, Roberts, Readings in Contemporary French Literature Philos()phy 33 - H U 016, Elliston, Nineteenth Century Philosophy Philos()pby 62 - H U 117, Marchi, Philosophy of Language Politiial Sci. 165 .. SS 113, Tidmarch, Urban Politics Soc,iology 1 t - H U 019, Carlile, The Individual in Society Biology 16.0 - BH 207~ Roth, Functional Histology and Organology Chemistry 12 • BU .204, Sutter, HuH, Fundamental Chemistry II Chemistry 16 - B:U 109, Weick, Inorganic Chemistry I Mathematics 11 - BH 102, G. Reynolds~ Mathematical Methods for the Social Sciences II Mathematics 101 .. BH 106, Gillette; Advailced Calculus for Engineers Matbeltlatics 141 ... BH 104, Fairchild, Advatt<led Calculus II Physics .11 .. EH 20 1, Schick, Introduction to Physics l (For Biology, Science, HurnaiJities and Social Science Majors) Physics 13, Sec. 2 - SS 016, . Swartz, Introduction t() Physics II (For Biology, Sc.ience,' Hurna.nities and Social Science Major~) Physics ·13 - SS {) 16, W. Schwarz, Introduction tc. Physics II (For Physical Science and Engineering Majors) Psychology Ul, See. 3 ... PY 213, Bashore, A First Course in Psychology Psychology l4- PY 113, Downing, Social Psychology Psychology 31 - PY 102, Nydegger, Abn9rmal Psychology Civil Ellgin. SO . ... SH 100, Snow, Environmental Engineering U Eleetritd Ellgm. 33 ... BH 108, Chang, Analysb~ and Design of Electronic Circuits . Meellankal Engili. 40 ... NW 116, Eisenstadt~ Engineering Design and Project Planning Page 7 - -~ WEDNESDAY, JUNE 8 9:00 ... 11:00 A.M. Comp. Ed. 100 - SS 117, Fisher, Urban Problems: A Historical Perspective Comp. Ed. 178 - AB 106, Andrews, Art History Art 20- AB 106, Andrews, Art History Music 133 .. AB 202, Wilson, Musical Romanticism Economics 150 ... BH 106, Madariello, Seminar in Industrial Economics Economics :162- SS 113, Kent, Seminar i:n Financial Analysis English 166 .. HU 112, Davis, Modern English Fiction German ll ... H U 117, Klemm, Basic OermanUI Hebrew 12 - H U 116, Heckelman. Basic Hebrew Ill Philosophy 21 - HU 114, Peterson, Symbolic Logic Political Sci. 153 - SS 012, · Thurston,. International Politics in East Asia Sociology 61 - SS 014, Weiner, Schneller, Internship i:n the Delivery of Social Services Physics 11 - BU 204, Lewis, Introduction to Physics I (For Physical Science and Engineering Majors) Psychology 38 - PY 113, Britain, Child Psychology Psychology 66 - PY 204, Downing, Seminar in Social Psychology Computer Science 235 - SH 100, Gajjar, Logical Design of Digital Computers WEDNESDAY, JUNE 8 2:00-4:00 P.M. Comp.. Ed. 27 - SS 014, Bristol, Historical Classics · English 142- HU .019, Freund, Tragedy · History IS - SS 014, Bristol, Historical Classics Chinese 11 - HU ItO, Blader, Basic Chinese Ill Chinese I3l - HU 110, Blader, Modern Chinese III Political Sci. 139, Sec. l - SS 117, Board, Seminar: Political Theory Statistics. 16 BH 207, Holmes, Introduction to Statistics Mathematics 12 - Calculus U Sec. l ... BH 203, Bick Sec. 2- BH 201, Stone 'Sec. 3 ... B H I 08, Fairchild Mathematics 14 - Calculus III . . Sec. 1 ... BH 205, Gillette Sec. 2 ... H H 104, Ming Sec. 3- BU 109, Zwicker Sec .. 4 ... BH 102, Loullis WEDNESOAY,JUNE 8 2:00•4;.,.0. ~.M...'... . .... Computer .. Sei~nce 20 . .. HU 114, 6:30•8:30 P.M. I • '\ ' ... I .,. • ~ ; • ,., c ' ' Gold:bog~n,. ltttermed1ate Progriunming· · · · · · ··· · Coniputer . Biology 147 ~. B~ ioi~ ~affin, lmmunol9gy F.E. 15 ·~ HU .llo~· Stevenson, Tlw. Nature W ·. , rt'·tbr. s\ \I'· - r\ ., , ~ '· ~ l • , ~. :

; .. PageS CONCORDIENSIS, May 18 1 1977 · classifieos Attention Seniors - Senior Sail tickets are open to all students, and are available in the Student Adivities Office. Seniors Graduation' announcements are available in the Student Activities Office. Stop by and pick them up if you ordered them!!!!! Pre-registration materials for ! fall term 1977-78 will be available in tlae office of the Registrar, · Room 2, Administration Building, beginning Friday, May' English Department curriculum and major requirements: 4:30 p.m., HU 115, Refreshments - 5-19-77. FURNITURE for sale, a fuU bed, a double bed; and .a, desk. Best offer by graduation. Call Mike at 374-3737. RIDE NEEJ)ED: Back to Union from the Boston Area, Sunday, May 22. Contact: Jane 6522 or in Boston Area (617) 527-5S52after Thursday. SUMMER SUBLET: Avenue A, one block from. campus. Two roommates needed, male or female . .Modern apartment. with large backyard and off street parking. REASONABLE RENT. Call Jackie at 370- 6427 or 37():.6591. I 20. ftpartmt~nt of Biolo&ical Sciences - ,.~emlnar Aililouncement, Tuesday, May 24, 1977, 4:30p.m., Bailey Hall, lim. 207, Selected Endoparultes of Cats and Dop, ,' Paul To Hartman, D.V.M., Aqueduct l'OR SALE: One plywood board~ ;d brackets used for shelf above door : ~ a West room. Inquire at 226 West. wiU dicker. Apartment to sublet: Summer 77. Very close to campus - 1065 University Place. Three bedrooms, kitchen, living room and dining room. Reasonable rate. Contact , Kathy or Benise at 370-6417 or Laurie 370· 652S. I Lost: Cla5sie Ameri~an Philosophers · ed. Malt Fisch. If found, please call 370- 6600. Apartment to sublet: for summer 77. Close to campus, four bedrooms, kitchen, dining room. living room, bathroom. 1041 University Place. Contact Teri, Becky, Jody - .370-6522. One more female needed to sublet a three bedroom apartment over . the summer, 32.1 Seward Place (first floor), mostly furnished, three bedrooms, living room and dining room, large .kitchen, bath with shower. Call 374-Z957. Ride Wanted: From Long Island, NYC area or Springfield to Union on May 30. Will share expenses and/or driving, contact Patti ar370-6619. 1%7 Ford Falrlane, Only 5100. Call Linda at 370-6408. STILL LOOKING t;or a roommate for next year. Gillespie St. and not too expensive. Interested? Call Ben - 6520. Importmt meetin& for ·En&Jillh majors and all students interested in the revised BUSINESS OPPORTUNITY Stuff Envelopes $Z5.10 PER HUNDRED Immediate Earnings : Animal Hospital, Nllkayuna, New York. Refreshments at 4:00 p.m. ROOMS FOR RENT: For those who wish to live on campus this summer o( have no choice ypu can live at Phi Deltta Theta. Rates ~e very reasonable, stop by or call. 346-9730, J;I 75 Lenox Road. RIDE WANTED: To Ithaca on Friday, May 20. Call Jim at 393-2563. Relrlaerator with luce freezer - Will accept a reasonable offer. If interested, call Lance at 370-6732. BORED? LOOKING FOR A GOOD TIMET NEW ~XPERI~NCES? Come to R011encrantz and G.ulldenstern Are Dead, playing in the Nott the 20th-23rd, at 8 p.m. Tickets in the Nott Box Office daily from 1· 5. SEXI!!ll Now that we've got your attention, there's a musical in the Cabaret, · and it~s The Fantulk:b. It's playing the 16th through the 19th and the 24th through the 27th. Tickets available in the Student Activities Office daily. LOST: A baseball aJove With no apparent means of .identification (no name on it). Lost in the vicinity of Daley North field on May 5. If found, please call Jan at 6143. Thank you. LOST: A set of keys with about twelve keys on a ring. Last seen behind the bleaclters of Daley fie!~ Parents' Weekend. If found, please contact Matt at 6143. Thank you. LOST: A silver neclclace with the initials LSH printed on a .rectangular pendant, and an Italian horn on the same chain. Lost in front of West College on May 12. If found please contact Lance at 6548. It has IJ'alt sentimental value. Thank you. FOUND: One, GM car key. Found inside gate at the corner of Seward and Nott. Claim at 226 West. APARTMENT TO SUBLET: 1030 Gillespie St. Nearby, very cheap, friendly neighbors, good school nearby for the kids, piano, furniture, friendly atmosph1=re at no extra cost. Contact Jeff at 377-9052. FOR SALE: 1972 Nova, 4-door, automatic, AC, PS, PB 30,000. Excellent condition $1800. call Larry 370-6536. FOR SALE: Sears refrigerator, 14 cubic foot, 2-door, runs welt $55, Call Larry 370- . 6536. TO ANYONE who found a baseball &love on May 5 .on Daley North field .. If,. you're looking for ·the owner try calling Jim at 6143. Thank you. WANTED: Loving home for 2-3' months for a well-trained, well-behaved, one year old dog. Sandy is a light brown mixf!d'-llreed golden retriever. She is spayed and has all 'her shots. If you have any. interest in taking care of her for 2 months or longer, please contact Rich Guardian ;tt 377-7541 or Box 0813. Thank you. Mary: Keeping it simple, what were you doing that kept you from getting to dinner? The library wasn't suggested on the quiz - you thought of it yourself! Dear Henry - I love you very much, but I've had ENOUGH of this CHINESE FOOD!!! -Denise Chuek - Can I help it if you need ten and I need five? You know we're different. By the way, WHERE are my letters?! I hope you find them before someone else does. Boo - What do you do when it's not· hockey season'? Play with foul balls? WHAT THE PUCK DOES THAT MEAN? Blonde Dior Giver - Do we learn with every good-bye'? Do we learn to --? We shall see before we depart for summer. - Wbite Shirt D.M. - Seen any mini-caribiners recently? - Gold Men Dmer - Delta Chi is Sig Chi without the Delta.- R.F., D.P. \'AHWAH - I am who I am ... Am I? - HIUISie Hansie - God will get you - God Krantz - What's this I hear about an English throat flagging a well-known comp ed in Lit. (Bible, that is)? - A Concerned Sinner To all those people taking God - Want to hear a 44th Street \hot minute\? The f\mal di!YB are coming!. L.L. - Here's your personal ~ B.JI. Coke - Diet much? - s;K. Fourth ,Floor Richmond - The end of the year is near and soon we'll no longer be one floor. ·wherever you liye, remember all the fun and remember that you don't have tQ live in the same building witb someone to· remain. good friends and ~hat it's worth the effort to inove and visit. '1 think we've grown too close to 'lei buildings or organizations come between us. - A Happy Fourth Floorer Ms. Ashton: One neat thing about the hero~s .. best friend is that he always survives the movie. Unfortunately, the hero always gets the girl, leaving the hero's best friend with nothing. Except, of course, the horse, who is often talkative and overbearing. Besides, who wants a horse? Love, Rliss Dear Art Lee - Sure hope your !Qve life improves! Henry DIAMOND'S ARE A ·GIRL'S BEST FRIEND, BUT IF THAT'S OUT OF YOUR RANGE .•. How about dinner at Lum Fung's Friday? THIS IS YOUR LAST CHANCE!! - Nina Angel - In the hectic life I now lead, the extent of my appreciation is too often slighted. Please bear with me as I foresee better times on the horizon. Sincerely, abou All right afi you music .and comedy lovers... Get out .there and buy your Fantutieks tickets!!! Luisa's Father Kl - Sack With Saks much? Kormondy - Kosher meat tastes better! Dieky - I've been to ·ECO more than you this term and I'm not even on the final registration sheet or taking it pass-fail. Sherman Grotzje ~ It only took your parents .to ~aise your batting average to over .250. Looks like we may see .300 yet. A Loyal Fan Jello - Do you like Purple Rocks? Joe Millett said I could get them in this week. Was hewrong?'l? Y ouna Bob, the interior decorator - You're sure you don't want us to build an annex·to the room? - Small OJlll, Magie & Smelly One Fred Berkayoitz - I, the other lead tru~pet, chaUenge you to a googutz flicking contc:st. Meet me at noon on Sunday behind Chet's statue. Be there, .crotch brain!!!!!!!!- The Doctor Cindy Doll - Your money is waiting for you. As you asked, it is in small unmarked bills hidden under my mattress -Doc Mape - If you ever want your back to get better, you're simply going to have to stop picking up floozies - The Doetor Spoqe Brain - Up yours Emelock - Smelly One · Send $1.00 To: Enwelopes Dept~ Z 76 Live hassle-lree in your own home - a beautiful three bedroom contemporary cape. 1 Y.! baths, lst floor living room, dining room, large new kitchen, king size bedroom, Y.! bath upstairs, 2 king size bedrooms, full bath. Niskayuna school owner very amdous - open house Sunday 2-5. Mrs. Gipstein. $37,500. 986 Avon' Crest Blvd. 370-5487. To all the uninfonned - Magic is Campus Cupid - Never enjoyed riding really a closet pervert _ Guess Who horses so much, did you? - B.K. 102 Charles Street Baston,Mass. 02114 Skellar Captain Tom - Why are you walking funny this week? Don't horses agree with you? - B.K. There's a arape in my sink. Stephanie A.: My crab's better than your crab!!! Skellar Captain Tom - ls one Taco enough ransom to. get someone back from I Jim:. May 1 borrow your car? Jack's?- B.K. : ~~f!\.jj~f?::lr.iif:l~r.ii~r.iir.iif:!r.iip;jr.iirJr.iir.lir.iir.ii&irJ!':dp;jr.iir.ii!':.IF;!!':dr.iirJr.ii~r.drJP'lrJ!':drJE:i~~ ~ WRUC rfi~K ~ I Dave and Keith: Need an interior C and T Are weekends really that 1 decorator for your apartment next year? wonderful? . Laurie - GU § 90.9 f m * S t ere 0 AT TEN: ~ ~ . . B ~~ Wed.: NRBQ; Thurs.: THE OUTLAWS :~ SIFri.: BILL COSBY. BOB DYLAN SPECIAL - S ~ Tuesday, May 24 at 8 p.m. :S 1;1 Programming Guides are out - come up to the station and , 'S ~ pick up :your copy or write to us and we will send you one. S ~~~~rJr.iirJ!':d~r.ii!':d!':drJr.d!':dr.ii!':dr.ii!':dr.ii~r.iir.ii!':d~r.ii!':dr.iir.d!':d!':dr.ii~r.iir.dr.iir.ii!':dr.iir.iir.ii~ Now before botb houses of tile state legislature is a bill (AS$embly lntro #8447) which would increase fbe maximum rAP award from 51500 to : 51800 a year. Students, faculty, parents and administrators are urged to write immediately .to their respective state assemblymen llnd senators asking them to 1 ~·---------------·-· .. liupportthe passage of this bill,' 1 M S 1·n N v M ·o In Italy 1 • ~~ieh :::~:::! im:~~::~~:: I . . • · • . • J.' . · • . . • . . · 1 · independent colleges including! Union. Letters and wires . 1 American pre-meds now have an exciting new way to de- I . ~hould be addressed: c/o I velop their careers-a unique biomedical graduate program I . Senate Chamber, State · which combines: I Capitol; Albany, New York I· a one-year, 36~credit course at major New York colleges which 1214 7; e to Assembly I leads to a M.S. degree in medical biology or bacteriology and 1 , Chamber, State Capitol; health sciences, with I · Albany, New York Ul48. I Individual handwriHen or • preparation for admission beyond the first year to an Italian I t,ped letters are deemed to be ·1 medical school. Also veterinary medical school. \ 1 . I a most eueet ve proeedure. I E U I'A\'''nN Addresses of representatives I INSTITUTE OF INTERNATIONAL MEDICAL. D \\'IU I· can . be had by calling your . . . , Chart(lr~d by the ~~g~nts of the University of the State of New York . loeal board of elections. Tl,lese I 3 E. 54 St., New York 10022. • (212) 83~·2089 . . I addresses ar~ also availabl~ in ·----------------- the Office Qf St.,.dent Aid. . . . . • '.' Cliff: Old enough to .... , old enough to •... !!! Rhoda: What aren't you allergic to? Bob M.: It's not the crab; IT'S YOU! !I!! Bob - Is this enough warning that you've got a personal? K. Pippin with 'the B.E.'s - Happy Birthday in advance. Get out the Gerital. I tried to find the meadow and lake, but they were too difficult to :wrap! Will a· personal do? P.S. Book sends his love and best wishes. Roomie let's hear it for cancelled sailing weekends! Is \Little Seymour\ behaving himself? Chris - Youhetter watch out for those dirty old men, especially ones that talk to posts. Susan: Twoertree weeks in Italy, not bad! Blaina: If it is dark at least he can't see you blush .•• To the one wltb the short complex: A lot of those places are conducive to tltings other than crying, but then again I'm sure you.already knew that. Marcia aild Jamie - Do you really plan to. live in. Richmond? .How· could you do that t~ me? 1~11 miss you ,both, it's. been fun knowing you. Dana . Cindy ...... I can't wait for those peanut butter and banana sandwiches! ~oko Roomie you. you're wrong .. .1 still· love Cootie: Where were you this weekend? Chich•$ Dad, HTT: On the prowl and hotter than ever! Cbiclllets: Who's next? Welches (JJ): Spreading yourself around lately? Dave B.: Have a little respect and stop cutting my throat on P Chem labs? Signed, Your ._other Glenn - the earring's delicious K - It's· a fme frond - a seeret admirer Billy - let's bump to boz - a secret admirer Hey, Paulie Bill - \Vhere' s the list? M Cbary!l - You won't see me anymore! Bleina - Are you the one who told Rhett about .my obscene laugh!? Scarlett T11 my roomie: rm really glad you will be here next year! (even if you are living on the wrong side of campus) Dave' 8.: You were great last night. Siped, an em))lll\rassed obsener Dave B.: I agree!!!! The other participant. Dave B.: What happened to yours'? Mel Mellsa .... Willing to teach you new stroke; meet me at .the Pub ofi Saturday night to plan your lesson. Chris Columbus This year has been one big still life. J. Venneer • Blalna - Build up your endurance, you are going to have to take care of them both two weekends in a row. Ann & Mark - It's about time... now I'll be an official spinster sister. Congratulations and stay happy! Love, J(Jilnie .· Bill - Where's the list? M Mary - Was that balls with a B? Kathy - \You got bad luck, that's what you got, that's what you got .•. \ I ~ess it wasn't just the tune that you liked. Does this make that self-induced stuff a waste? Barb G. - I never said anything about the way you comb your hair. I'm sure that letter in Coneordy wash't directed at you. Vidal Sassoon D - Don't worry; this is not a personal! Hey Louie! - Has anyone ever told you dmt you write lousy personals? Just kiddin• - 2nd floor .De-Chi . To the Union College Social Committee - I just wantec;i t() tba.AA those of you who tried to help me out Saturday. I really appreciate your kindness, it's nice to know that there are people around who really care. It really did help. Thanks, Bohi Joan .... I'm sorry I finished your yogurt. You'll also find that your Italian bread is missing. you know who Wilmie the pooh - Where did you go all those weekends and was it fun? - B.K. ·-rw-•• PARTY - If you would like to receive full directions to the party that I am hosting July 3rd in Rochester, please see that I get a stamped, pre-addressed envelope from you before Commencement. I hOpe to see lots of Union people there! - Murray Levison . • Sherr! - How 'bout that apartment in Burlington? It should be great! We'll miss you! Love, emso There will be a meetin& . of the Pre· Nurd Sotlety in the all·night study on Saturday nite at 2 a.tn. - Ben Rubin Matt Lubart ,_ Your harpoon marks are as big as mine! (signed) Moby Ben Rubin - We don~t like you. (Signed) Uoion CoDece Hey Pal - do a good job (no tears). I'll miss you. Dan K. Abram~ You show good poteotial. Steve Cauthen ietla - You're great. - 4th floor ltkfiiilond Attlk - How are things with the clock? . . • ; . 1 ~ .. t \ li Naaey S In Rielunond : ... : ·Would •like to sb,ow you my etchin~s. L. DaVI.gcl . ~ . ' .. ' ' . - We'd u fot the. el York <;it3 to ,p!annil work w Freund~&· I for man~ experienc• make itp• Miu7 even witll give you .Doetor Koko ... pill~ to st Joame. was good y(lurs hun Kitta • child~na Marpr forbegin11 C•IJ'IPUI oftltings 1 Koko- . Joanie yput siste. Mike i was in tt Polaris. 3 Kelly - K.A.• lOak- Matso Henry Friend ... ' how abm Henry Pinch in tbe wl Chuck member worker To Br cut and is it was a11d I'm being me Cindy hard has G.W. When de Cll'ol, present~. com,ov' MartJ and the anyvaCII Lee - where·w Jril- ·!ley • (signed) iley boUlder Mike Mike than Ba Ben beware Tom Hey Saturda Hey • thanks!· Karel wheny~ NeD Ira Benn Laml Cbril bologn Cop( yoursel K. ~ much? Doll lend Y.l Cym is still

nut ove top will J. hat it oes out !ian go am see • in miss Pre· on you. I'll to W~'d Ukt to tbalik Prof. Hans •Frewtd for the. excellent field ~rip he led tQ N\ew York <;ity. l;l:e devoted .considerable effort to planning the ·trip and the results of .his work were .evident. Through .Prof. Freund~s. gUidance a new wo~ld was opened for xnany of us; all of us enjoyed the ~xperience. We appreciate what he (lid to make it possible. M•tiers of C.:omp. Lit )Ed 44 Mlsly c. - l got an A on lily tlu;sis even without your help, bu.t .rm wiDing to give you one more chance. .... .a 11acdd Dodor Xoko .._ t.>o you mean I have to jind a place to stay ever)' weeken~ next year? Joame - l tllought that kind ofexereise was good for youf back. So why. dces yours hurt? Kitta - . Do you know where your children an;? Maraaret .... Do. they have ccolcbooks for beginners? C•mPUI Cupid .... rve totally lost: track of tltings this ·week. Boy are you bus:v.: Koko- What did you say on the radio? · JQIIDle - Send ol,lf congratulations to your sister, · Mike Baeco .... I heard Mattha~s father was in the naVy, that's why they call her Polaris. 35~ KeUy- Your end is near!!!!!!!! K,A. \\\ I heat ya\l're Brand-ed fo£ life! I' IOU ..... visit the Stage much. Adrian ~also - running for \student body ... Henry .... \Diamonds Are A Girl's Best Friend ... \ but if that's out of your range, how about dinner Friday night? Nina . Henry ..,.. I-~-- yqu!!!l!! - DeJilile Pinch - Y ou~re so nice!!! 'Your friend in the white &. blue CONCORDIENSIS, May 18, 1977 Tbr~naib tbe haze .of blue Came a light of (ecognition. Through one. flame was lit The deepest ·of penetration .. Upon th~ tree was found The mark of civilization. Up¢n the shore was sighted The dock ofapp(eciation.- By an hour's eternity Came a minute's salvation. By the end of nigltt's blindness Was·found the clawn~s depression. P.T • ...., Now th11t #l has tr•usferred, l am THE nicest guy· in the schoQl, bar none .. Don~t. you agree? By the way, are you SURE you .don't want anything for dessert? - J. To tbe ~Milsquerade Man.. ...,. We wowdn;t be so lost in this. lonely game we play if we could only comrimnicate. To tile fiser Of tbe steops: Please r~d The 'R'qllayalat of Omar Kbliyyam i~ its English translation by Edward Fitzgemld. Could it be your •song of life? - the f.D~ Fan club. To the IUY it may c:oneem: '{he deepest feeling shows itselfi~. silence. B.P.: Do you dare to imiinuate that l descended from apes? - your young ilwNtle. Latll'a -. AU courses should be as fun to graduate, huh? Bill - hi! Ron - I like yout shirt, did you make it yourself/ Sll'a - Has the dr-yer ·been working any better lately? The ont: I use hasn't. D.G. - You can have me anytime - M.N .. CIDdy Pierce ...... Hope you've had a beautiful birthday! From your floor KML - Where lu!.ve you been keeping yourself lately? Linda R. aud Jane G.: 'Two lonelv salmon looking for spawning partners. If you can help .perp.etuate the spec1es meet us at the mouth of the Columbia River. M.L • ..,.. .Jf you lo.ok closely you can find a way to improve your social life. Fiorian - Did you ge! those callouses .fixed on your right handi Slll'a J. .... SEX SEX . SEX SEX SEX SEX SEX SEX SEX SEX SEX. SEX and mQre SEX. Ben Rubin has just a:nnounce\1 his candidacy for Soci!tl Chai.rman, so let's bear it for nim. Breck - .Take a good look awund! Steve Waldman - Do you do all your wash in hot water? • K. Abrams - Weren't you .meant to be a boy? Kate - You're my ·kind of man! Florilin - How's Eliie? To the cllq~e of Uav.idson: Five seats at Billy Joel? Wanted - One reasonable owner ~ See Yoni W•nt~: One partying. roommate ~ See BenRubin · Scott S. ,... Cleaned your ceiling lately? To the women of Union Colleg~ - Why aren't you chasing me anymore? Signed - Mark Florian Fishman - You can count your friends on your middle leg. Din&man ...... What's new and exciting in your life? To Martin - I really enjoyed the walk in Jackson's garden the other night. Signed -Shortie Roommate Wanted - See Ben Rubin How close is Vestal to purity? Ben Rubin - Will you get into Medical school like you got your apllrtment? ScottS • ..,. The ceiling's awful white! Page 9 Chuck - How does it feel to 'l>c a member of the \working class?'• 'I'HE worker , Elmer Alld ·Fudd Scott S. - How big stalagtites? · are those i-' ..... ----------~------__, To Bruce & Me1 and the rESt of the qat add trew of A & L - All I .can say is it was fantastic worki11g with all of you a11d l'in relieved that now I am re.1um to being me sweet sunny self .. Megeata Cindy JiiY love - It hasn't been all ·that hard has it? Steye G.W. -· The Riviera sounds terrific. When do we leave? MM Carol, Jim It Liurie - I still ha:ve your present~. Maybe< you'll get. them ..,.,hen i come over to say goodbye. M. Marty - Congratulations on 'the job and the apartment. Too bad you d~n't. get any vacation. M. Lee - Just think in less than a month, where will you be? RM Iril - I'LL WRITE ... (i think) ·lley Gor~ - bold your own. m).lch. (sign~:d)T. WaU iley Jiabs - Nice over the shoulder boulder hol~ers!l! Mike - Niee tattoo! MUte - I heiu country puts o11t more than Barb. Ben Rubin .-. I'm gonna kill Yoni, beware the mad hetmaphrodite! Tom Buraess -Jocelyn lovesyoul!.!!il Hey lan - thanks for the gre&t time Saturday night. Cliuc:k P. .Hey Deb - hope Klak never finds out, thanks!· :KII'en ·- Next time will you kno.w B.J. when you see hil!J? Gitter - I hearthey han8 uneven!! Farf. NeU - Next· time your sister gets it. - Ira Benny - drop the. lax ball muc!J., J) •• u. Lamblky - Hosger oftheweelc!ll!!!l! Cbrilbole - Let's play lli.de the bologna ... the DoJI'! ~ 360 Coppea - ever· think seriously <>f killing yourself. Mat1 Lubart. JC Abrllm much? Pick squash in. Vestal Doi!M G. - We have a Matt we calL lend y.ou!! 2o.f , . . . ·, 1 • • - . Cyacly. ;_:A day'late, bUt the ~c~t~ent is still there ... Happy Birthdayi! I.IC II£ RJ( Lester W. - Nice cartoon .... Su.zanne Andrea, S. - The short company you keep makes me vomit. P. BiSmol fve &one all the way with A. F. --s.G. Kuen Stralllfeld - Will miss looking at you, Good Luck, Love always. llappy birthday, Marla!!! A requiem mau is b~inl held on Friday for David Becker. It seems .he has vanished from sight and no longer exists. Jle was last seen driving down Union Street shouting, \DOGS!\ Stan - I've heard of skeletons in the clo~t, but Barbl Dolls? Pete - I realize that you think I'm god, but serially I think l can sing better than Bob Dylan. Jlmi Hllllk - Thought we forgot, clidn't you? HAAA HAAA JIAAA F.F.S.A.S. To all those interested in To Simeon and Martin ....... Are you . purchasing the 1981 Freshman· ready Jor stuff Steaks and meat patties? - Record: .carmen, Ritz, Sonia To Martin - ·Early Happy Birthday! P.S. - You're not getting older, you're getting better!! - Signed - Shortie J'im Gaffney - When il~e you gonila win a race? Matt - Mail my letter!!! Lanc:e - Lose .anything lately??? M.N. - Have you met any women who run through fields fot a living lately'?? MML Gordie - Congratulations!!! LH ,_ Is it spaghetti, hamburgers,. hot dogs; or tuna helpertonightnl Due to financial strains on our budget ffi:is year, we are asking all those interested in purchasing the Freshman Record to order their copies now. To accommodate our expense budget, tequests made in advance · and paid in full will be honored. · Again, there will be a choice between hard or soft covered books. The price differential is as follows: $6.00 for hard covered and $5.00 for soft covered (per copy). Reminder: there will be NO EXTRA Freshman Records. So order your copies now! In French, we have restructured the curriculum in nearly ~til its area$. The most important changes fall in the following: LANGUAGE COURSES French 10, Resened now exclusively for those who have never studied Frenc'- before. Fall Term. French 10-11 9 A new; combined, two-credit intensive course in. French. Six hours .of · ·class and two hours of supervised lab. Winter Term. French 2.0, A new course designed e$~iall! for those whose knowledge of French is. pretty shaky and who need a course mid-way between 10 and 11. (We would call it lOA if we couldl) Fall Term. Pam - The anticipation of waiting to meet Tanya was sure worth it, even though To the mysterious dll'k•haked girl who · she did scare me half to death! From your occasionally btu~hes up against my ·life friend who ean always hear you coming. only to flee, leaving me crushed. WHEN? Bs 254Z Please send the below order form with your check to . Freshman Record (campus mail) N~~~----~--------------- Fre11cb 140, Advanced . Study in the Freocb Language. W:RUC .JO.X: 'fhalik for sounding so good. Randy 'Liebe pH, Me,. D 2 , .FJnzers, little Mi$s Molfatt, lumberjack, bang out' of .ur~. 1\ubrey and friend and rooJ11ie 1 Kimbles, . Pei&Y .1\Jaheeny, eej and cohorts, and Coop Herzliche Grussc von Deutschland. Wir m~:~chen .vie! Spass. LP hat mebr Sommersprossen und EC mehr Glocken. Unsere Fusse sind aucn Schmutzig, aber. wir brauchen kein mehr Toilettepapier, Obgleich, brauchen wir mehr geschriebene Papier. Votsicht! Wir kommen bald zuruck. Atifwienerschnitzel, LP ilnd.EC Kat« - How's Mitqh? Cbrllbole .-.. Tracy dump you much?. (Signed) Kate Girls .... Thanks for the caf:e, it felt good. Ben Rilbbl - Even ZBT hates you, we all can't be wrong! Jam Goillub .-.. Sit on my face, PLEASE! KOIIU - You. think the egg is bad wait 11ntil the dog dew starts to fly. Brand - soon all of y<>ur fish will die, die .-ad boiler! Meters and Me1ermaid - Couldn't you arrange the next concert for a Sunday? - GeniU!! that thought they'd work on a Saturday. Students!!! Remember that all cam- pus mail will come to your colleg~ box and · not your home address. So check your box at least twice a week. Address.--------- Phon•~-------------------- No. ot Copie:--------- Hardcover---------- .... Softcover----------- Amount ErtclosedL..· ---------- Make cheeks payable to I Union College .19811 Freshman _Record Spring Term. · LITERATURE AND CIVILIZA. TION COURSES A whole new series of topical courses will be offered here, including Masterworks of French Literature, Women . Writers of France, France de Nos Jours, Studies in the French Novel, French Literature from Louis XIV to Voltaire. A new course in' English, Marxism and A.rt, will be offered under the rubric, European Literature In Translation. · In Spanish, new courses are being offered at the \140\ ~r.d~i:l~f2fdg',lF':a!2!2~r.lf<irl!\J!\J~r.d!2~!2!21?.dr.dl?.d!2!2tJ~E'.1td!'l!!'dtJ~r:&!2~!!'d~ le'Vel, induding: ~ Bore· d TX 7z\th ·=- ·~ Spanish 140, Cervantes: ~ · .· YY I · · ·. · · ~ 1 Don Quixote. §the Skellar and The Pub? !.s ,. Spanisb 141~ Contemporary ·~ ~ Hispanic Theater § 111-'~ JOSHUA'S COCKTAIL § in s::,:~~i=ITopk• ~ LO'U'NGE' . o· 'IS CO ~ Students who ha\'e any s .· . . . • . . and . . . . . . . : 'till 4:0:~: s . questions about placement in t,1 ~ any of these cotarses should ~·. . ., 1617 Union. Street. . ~ drop by the Modern Lanauage ·' 'dl.rk St• SJderi Be 'prepar«<· th(l week ~ 1>.1 \' ~..,...;,:-:;,~;.:~ ': ... ·r 'DRINKS. JS ... jo. .umo •. :l.ri.:'. :·:: .J'::· .... t;~ .. \' the ~~Onl~ you spoken to your m<>therthis week? J. fr]e;!~~~~~tJr;j~rJI?.d~e3rJ~~~I!J~ZJ~I?.d!2r:.l~f21!l~r.l~~~~~tJ!2edf::l~

< . \ 'i' . ' - i '. ·Page 10 CONCORDIENSJS, May 18~ i:977 - - T • Game Room Moves H} Action in resituated Game .R:odin You are cordially invited to attend an open house party this Friday afternoon from 1 to 3 to celebrate the opening of the all- new ga111e tooin in the ·basent.ent of Carnegie HalL Free beer- and · pretzels will be served. . . Yes, the ganie room has indeed been ·moved from the third floor to the basement ofCarnegie, next. to the Dutch Hollow Pub. The move, says. game room entrepreneur Peter Cellucci, was effected in the hope of giving the game room more of the needed exposure to members of the Union, community in a more prominent location on campus. Said Cellucci, \It was almost a Millilo Receives NSF Grant by ROBYN KOBERT Recently U11ion College was the proud recipient of a grant . from the National SCience Foundation (NSF). Dr. Frank Millilo, assistant professor of Mechanical Engineering at Union iind the program director for the grant, received the news from the NSF on March 4, 1977. This highly disting1,1ished grant was awarded to 148 out of the approximately 650 colleges who applied. The grant will cover !research done by five students whose work is concerned with the topic of energy conservation. For a period of ten weeks during the summer these students will be working on their projects under the direction of a fac\llty member. The benefits of. the grant are numerous. First, students will be working with faculty members on a one-to-,one basis, ensuring personalized attention for each participant. Second, the students will gain valuable expetience co.n.cer.ning research h.b techniques, The students worldng on these energy related projects are al1 members of the class of \78\. David Henry, who will be workiJlg in conjunction with Dr. Frank M.illilo,. will be working on a project designed for conserving energy in the home. His research will concentrate on the concept of Recipe Corner recoverin~ waste heat and using it either to 1 add additional heat to the house or to preheat incoming air t~t will be used for the combustion process in the furnace. Thus; ·the main thrust of Henry's. energy conservation resc;}ach will be to extract as mUch heat as possible from the exhaust air expelled by the furnace. Louis Davis and John Hansen will be developing a \solar energy allocation system for a small refrigerator\. according to Professor William Aubrey, associate professor of Mechanical Engineering. The research done by both students will be performed under the leadership of Professor Aubrey. Davis will develop a collection system of lenses or mirrors whose function will be to obtain energy from the sun. Hansen \will be developing a tracking device to orient the ' collection system. for maximum collection efficiency . ., Working under the direction of Dr. Shanebrook;. chairman of the Mechanical Engineerin.R Department, will be Cynthia Bruso and Jeffrey Snyder. Researching the ene.rgy conservation aspects of limited access highways: will be Bruso's project. The effect of speed limit control on the amounts of fuel used by vehicles wi.ll be thoroughly investigated. In particular the . fifty-five mile per hour speed limit would be re- evaluaied. Doctor Shanebrook described Snyder's work as a .. wind tunnel investigatiQn of energy transfer devices. The amount of energy transferred will be measured by a simple procedure involving temperature measurements . behind heated bodies. The results wiU be compared with theoretical data.\ Energy con·servatiop is currently an important and g~owing field in which Union College has been fortunate enough to receive the National· Science Foundation Grant facilitating continued research in this field. waste .of time to run tbe .game· r.oom when we kept· it hidden from. the students by three flights. of stairs.;. ln tne past few days we've been down here, the student respon~· to tbe game room ·has inc~;ea.sed enormously.''. lnd;eettf Within the first. few minutes of . C~neordy's interview, several students had stopped in for a quick game Qf ping pong, even; ·though it wasn't during .official ga!Jle ·room. .hours. '\The· change, .. Cellucci said, \has been most encouraging.\ The twa pQpUlat old games, ••FoosbaU\ and .. S~:~.tin Doll\ are still available in tile new location ~ plus two new ones, •'Bartkshof' and a TV g·ame caHed .. BreakoUt,\ purchased ·with the profits. left over from the Pub's b~rtending course. Pool and' .. ping pong will continue to be free till the end of this ye;tt, although monetary considerations necessitate the imposition of a nominal fee next year. The game r<Jom is open from noon to ten at night. on Monday through Thursday, frotn noon to midnight ()n Fri<Jay and Saturday, and from noon ~o eight on $und~y. for use by all Union community members ~ students, faculty and staff. ChildreQ. of faculty aild staff may use the r()om from four to siK on weekdays and from noon to six on weekends. The game room is strictly off-limits to townies. In addition to the purchasing of new games and the· revamping .of old facilities that Cellucci has in mind for the future, the game room will also inciude . such renovations as piped in music ftom WRUC, aild . v:atiQUS remodeling plans. \The purpose of the game room,\ said Cellucci, ••is to provide a place where Union kids can come and enjoy themselves convenientlY and inexpensively~ .. 1 hope that they'll come down this Friday and check liS out\ · This week's recipe was submitted by the head-chef and dishwasher of the quaint but little known ca.mpus cookery called Chez 227 l'Ouest. This. recipe was made popular in the famous Spring of '17 Blackouts at which time the ham and pineapple were eaten by candlelight from the can (rice was omitted in these caaes). An<>ther of its prize winning features is the fact that all of the ingredients can be bought on your next trip to the grocery store and stored until needed. One frying pan with a cover, a hot plate, and a can opener are the only mechanical necessities for this week's special - Marty's Ham · pan. If you're one who usually wrecks the rice, try minute rice, or if you'·re feeling adventurous try Uncle Ben's. Either \Wily follow the instructions on the boK for the. amount you will need. Rice has an interesting property - it is like popcorn in that a little to begin · with fills a pail when ,it's cooked - so beware, Adding a bouillon cube to the water gives the rice an interesting flavor. New Gatesmen Selected· Dinner. The ingredien~. are as follows: 1 smaU canned ham 1 can sliced (not crushed) pineapple rice bouillon cube (optional) Contrary to popular belief,. rice can easily be cooked in a frying In the last few weeks the Placement Office has heard about the followirig jobs: 1. Energy Conservation Engineer. 2. Red Cross Program Ala-.r Liquor Center 1..JtJutin ...... Wi,., - C.ott;llllb. 751~ ~STi~ AYJ. . . CP.li'- JA,.CUO\ , .. '•'I..OWES1'l-il1CI!S ALLOWEOtf • IJ- 1-.11,. • : \ '· ' ... - • . • -. by CINDY ARANOW Eighteen Union College : Since the Gatesmen must be able students. recently joined the to answer all kinds of questions honorary society known as the posed by prospective students and Gatestiietn. The competition for · their families, several meetings are the Gatesmc;ln position W;lS keen ; .being planned between the as only eighteen students were : Gatesmen and various members selected from over one hundred of the faculty. Recently the and thirty-five applicants. The · Gatesmen met with. Gail Russell new Gatesmen are: Chuck Assini, concerning the si~ year med. Sue Baxt~r. David Becker, Bob proararo.. ~ - On May 24th, the Gatesmen will. h!lve a diiJner at Junction Restaurant to. welcome new members. This ·is one of the few times that all the Gatesmen get together, for they ;ue not an official committee. President Jack Stein and Vice-President Cyndy Pearce hope t~t con.tmittee .. ship will be a reality next year, When the rice is cooked rem()ve it from the pan and put it where it is not likely to fall on the floor. Now moving quickly (before the first course · gets cold) take the ham. from the can and slice it. Fry the slices at high heat - watch out for spattering grease. Place the cooked ham in the rice and top with pineapple slices. Yum, yum. If you think your fa·vorite answer to the munchies. can top this, send it to box 1382, or slip it under the door of the Concordy office on the third floor Carnegie HaiL Birenbaum, Teresa Bohl.. Paul \'i'\1'~f4·W W¥¥ffi\WMiln~MWWh;>i,'Wtt,KiM'Azw&<;;<Nt!{Mi'·l''~li'\rdtll:t;t%1i<WtiM%NWW1iwM'MWIW:;Bvwi}~ttWJ;:w4\· Breene, Mark Buinett; Diane '' DiFoanco, Barb Gazzo, Donna Gianonne, Bill Jenkins, Marcia Kenney, Robyn Kobert, Leslie Okl;1dek, Brien O'Toole, Sue Portin, Barb Shumsky, and Cherie .Weiss. A Gatesman is a guide who gives high school students (and · · their families)~ tQur ofthe Union Director. College campus. Their· 3. Teaching English in a importance is obvious; they give Selective Private School. prospective students an idea of 4. Assistant Director of what Union College is really .like. Admissions at a small college, etc. . Each Gatesman conducts a If you are registered with us 1 minimum of one tour per week. and have signed up in the Job An additional role is that after No.ification Book, we were able one year of service, a Gatesman to inform you about these jobs. works. with _the Admi~siolis Office If you want to hear about jobs I and. •ntemews . applicants: The . or be notified by us ·when •. serv•ces of the Gatesmen a~e . employers call us, you must. voluntary, th~y \:ork for thetr register with the Placement Office personal satisfactum. As \~ne ' and be sure that w_e h~ve your · selec!~d G.~~esman stated, l m correct address and JOb mterests. prou .• ![llf_IP . &ehoei1mcH wafttlo show tt .off.\ Another reason why people become Gatesmeil is that they had a great experience when they touted the school and they wish to pass .this experience on to others. · Tf4ipjq,g· Qf .• · ,n,.e?'t year's •. . occurs this sprins. :st·he · . ' \ • ·· · lillY~ STAT..£· ' • • • ~ . J.t'.:,.)1.t•+,. · .f • ;l: .,..,.,..,.. j'. + . ,~~w· .Q\t~sJI)Citt ·at:~. tit~n·on· t~urs . ._ ... •••••·\•\••._· !IIIIIIIII!Mii• ... •.-.·_.· .. ,. 1 by several experienced Gatesmen. Tl by R,O Led 1 Rich distance and B< CC>llege season 1 past Sal the 30tli Cham pi Onio1 scoring lack o membe1 necessa against by sucl Fredon the nevertb Osweg< Rogers of 6-4, long se sophor Crimm ftfth. sop hot captaii were fc at 13~ ChiltoJ holder fifth. il Nor1 · Scheue qualifi4 Ill Cl last imp res up fo collect Osweg Seni strong throw A fou the ja' a 2Hi recor~ receiv1 .the e learne senio1 :'Also the tl give·~ each a~ Fl sl Ia ' .

, f. 1 l l; l t i, e 11 ,, ~ e 's g ll h s a 1e ~t h lt d ~. :y d ff :o ID lt: to ilf Jf in .te ~h 1ic liS se ;:i, re :JY ld ··n ck en on ~et an ck dy lip I . 'CO NC(iRDIENSJS, May 18, 1977 f(lge 11 ... . '\~ 6port6 . . TRAC.KMEN FINISH UP THIRD IN STATE by ROCI(Y DOLAN Led by victories from senior '\The event is all technique so help Rich Norman and middle- ·is. important.\ Perhaps as a direct distance standouts Kevin Scheuet result of that help Norman has and Bob Moffatt, the- Union been undefeated this year, ani,! is College Track Team concluded its presently seeded fourth in season on a sue<;essful note this Division III. . past SatUrday by placing third in IUum, after an undefeated the 30th Annual New York State · indoor;.Qutdoor regular season in ChampiQnships. · his specialty which saw him win Union's sole prol;llems with ·the indoor state title and establish scoring resulted from the severe school records in the 55, 60 and lack of depth their fourteen 12() Yard higli hurdles, placed member traveling squad must second at Oswego in 14.8, tying necessarily face when matched his school mark. It was a typical against the larger groups boasted Hlum race, according to interim by such schoo'ls as Colgate and coach Bob Magee, \Matt hit the Fredonia, The sUpporting crew of last nine hurdles - his knees were the Flying· Dutchmen, olack and blue by nighttime.\ nevertheless, was outstanding at Blum agreed, \l usually hit a few Oswego. In the high jump Cliff hurdles, but this was ridiculous.\ Rogers leapt to a personal record Blum, indeed, has only recently of 6-4, placing fourth to cap two st,arted to concentrate on. long seasons of hard work for the improving his hurdling technique, sophomore, and freshmen Keith and altbo':llgh ~vidence of this ca_n Crimmins clean~d 6-2 to place be round ':11 his performances thts fifth. Vaulters Eddie Adams, a . sprm~, evt~ence of the effort he sophontore as well, and co- puts t~to fis event can be found captain Bruce Bonano, a senior, on hts battered knees and on were fourth and sixth in the vault s~attered hurdles at Alexander at 13-6 each, and sophomore Earl Field. as, well. . Chilton, Union's indoor record · U nton s second. wm of the d~y holder, measured 42-8 and placed at Oswego came m t~e half m1.le fifth. in the triple jump. where a season-weary Kevm · S~heuer ran away from the field Norman, hurdler Matt Blum, in 1:54.2. Scheuer, who was · Scheuer, and Moffatt are Union~s clocked at the beginning of the qualifiers for the NCAA Division spring in 1:50.8, has been a Ill Championshi~ and in the stalwart all seaso11 for the last few weeks have been Dutchmen, in some cases running impressive in dual meets tuning the half, mile, three mile, and mile up for this competition. Their relay in a single day. Magee collective efforts this weekend at expressed some concern for his Oswego were equally prominent. s<~p'homore workhorse, \Kevin .Senior Norman, faced With a has truly done a remarkable job strong P,eadwind; still managed a this y'ear, but has been so throw of 198-dTo win the javelin. unselfish. about running three or A four-year self-taught veteran of f()ur races for the team tiiat he the javelin, Norman has recorded may have jeopardized some of his a 216-10 and holds the school championship possibilities .. \ In record. Norman has never f~ct, the mile was won at Oswego received any formal coaching in ill 4:18, an event Scheuer (4:13.8) .the event, and claims that he skipped in order to run a good learned as a freshman from a mile relay leg .. The coach points senior member of the teartl. out that Scheuer, attending the :•Also, when we throw at meets tirockport Invitational this the throwers on the other teams coming Saturday, has alse been give each other pointers and help working harder for the nationals each ot.her out,\ he_ explai~ed; in practice and so is 'not overly concerned about his middle- distance star. It was another banner day for junior co-captain Bob Moffatt. After a 49.6 qualifying r~n in the morning, the Stamford resident returned hot in the afternoon, clocking a 48.2 personal season's best in winning the 440. The 220 was next for Moffatt, wbere the 440 winner was matched up with the victor in the 100 (9.45). Moffatt, more a half-miler and therefore too inexperienced to use starting blocks, slipped from his standing start and could never make up the distance lost, placing second in 22.1. Finally, at day's end, it was another tour-de-force mile relay anchor leg performance for Moffatt. An excellent split of 50.8 by freshman Matt Guilfoyle, a 52.6 by classmate Pete Vielkind, and a 50.8 by Scheuer left Moffatt in second place, some thirty y&rds arrears. A week earlier, in dual meet competition, . Moffatt had managed to surmount such a lead but the thought of such a possibility in the finals of the State meet seemed humorous to most coaches near the relay zone. ''It's too bad he wasted his great race last week, Coach,\ was what one opposition mentor quipped, according to Coach Magee. For the tirst 300 yards of the 440 yard anchor leg most ct'iticism seemed justified. At RPl last week Moffatt had caught his counterpart quickly, then blasted away. With 100 yards remaining . at Oswego, however, there was still a healthy gap between Moffatt and the frcntrunner. Then, seemingly from nowhere, Moffatt gained first 5, then 10 yards. With teammates and opposition alike .exhorting him on, Moffatt summoned a last · desperate lunge across the line. So close \'as the margin between the two exhaUsted anchormen that both teams were awarded the ·exact same times, 3:22.0, or an anchor split of48.2 for Mcffatt in his seventh race of the· day. After ·A two-goal, three-assist performance by junior Ray Stecker. shown here against St. lAwrence. aided the UColl Jaxmen to a 14-10 victory over arch rival R.P.I. Following an 8-'l win over Colgate. this ,brought the Dutchmen's retard to 6-4, with action slated for Wednesday aflerntJon on Iialey Field versus Dartmouth. Ed. Note - The lacrosse writer has been unable to write his articles due to exams. A final wrap-up will appear in next Week's is¥Ue. ,_- The PENNY PIN:CHER QUALil'Y CLOTHES- LOW PRJeES USED BUT NOT ABUSED CURRENT STYLES ·ti22 ALTAMONT AVE. (~~St.) -· '·. ·, ·, ' ' ' .. , -1 ... t ..... ~·tua:.y,10..5, • ' ' a short delay Union was declared the winners, their fifth and final win of the day. Coach Magee's ·opinion of Moffatt and his race? \A great race. Bob is more than just a great runner or competitor. lie's an animal.\ A~d so' concluded the season for .most of the Flying Dutchm-en. Moffatt and Scheuer will enter the Brockport Invitational this handled workouts themselves tor ' a while. Credit should be given Coach Bob Magee who stepped in when Michelsen bowed out and did a great job, and credit should be given to each and every one of the members of the team. There is only one coach for all of them, and since one man cannot know all about hurdling, distance running, jumping, and throwing, Junior Mike May clears 12-6 earlier in the · Season versus Trinity weekend as a tune-up for the there are a number of hard- nationals, and then will join working individuals who have, Norman and Blum for a plane literally, coached themselves. trip next Tuesday to Grand Never have so few done so much Rapids, Michigan where they will with so little help and recognition compete in the Division Ill their efforts are to be National Championships. The , commended. tirst two finishers in each event there are invited to the NCAA's, and according to Magee, some of * * * * * his charges may have such an At Prize Day during Parent's opportunity. Weekend it was announced that Regardless of the fate of co-captain Bob Moffatt had been Norman, Blum, Scheuer, and selected as one of the most Mollatt, the Flying Dutchmen of valuable junior Athletes of the Union College have much to be Year. K..enneth Beck, from prolld of. Losers of but two meets Syosset, N.Y., this upcoming fall's since December, and winners of football capta·in and an numerous major invitational outstanding lacrosse defenseman, meets, the Gamet have performed shared the award with Moffatt, as none have ever before, The and Tom Hood, from Cornish team took the loss of Coach Ken Flats, N.H., last year's football Michelsen early in the season to ;;aptain, won the award for senior back surgery in full stride, and 'lthlete. ••~here IS 11 differen~el!l r;:;:;;:a•- 't.\• PREPARE FOR: MCAT• DAT•LSAT• SAT GRE • GMAT • OCAT • VAT ENROLLING NOW \EARLY BIRD\ CLASSES For July LSA T · & Summer Classes for Fall MCAT Our broad range of p10grams provides an umbrella ot test· lng know-how that enables us to offer the best preparation available, no matter which course is taken. Over 38 years of experience and success. Small classes. Voluminous home study materials. Courses that are constantly up- dated. Permanent centers open days, evenings & week· ends ,all year. Complete tape facilities for review of class lessons and for use of su.pplementary materials. Make-ups for missed lessons at our centers. · E'CFMG • FLEX NAT'L MEDICAL & DENTAL BOARDS Flexible Programs & Hours Manhattan ........... 212·838·4454 . 11 · Long Island . . . . ...... fii&-538·4555 Ill'• N' . New Jersey .......... 201·846·M62 IVW , ~ .~ 1 l( •, r., t • fJ ~. •. ·, -\ l, I ._ .t~' ~ I~ f I -t' _ i i I, ~ II ~>. . ;·:·\X· ,,.,~//~S1l:. Brooklyn ........ :- .. 212·336·5300 1 •. 1 _ 1 . Oul&tt!e NY Stale Only 800 2~1· a· 840 , EDUC.ATIONAL CENTER l TO 'I '.'l=.l\.\\fqll \: I • 1675E16SIBklyn • '• • ;... C!enten '\\'•loi' u.s. tme• ancllu&ano. Swltdrtand' . · ' ' fEst 'PREfkL}fJ~ ' · • SPECIALIST$ SJNCE ·1938 ..

' Page Jt CONCORJ)IENSIS, MQy!8, /977 Rugby Wins lith by WEASEL A determined Albany State team gave the. successful Union Ruggers all they could handl~ in a scrappy, physical game this past Saturday. In the \A\ contest, the larger State squad continuously took control of serums and rucks, forcing a stingy Union club into a · defensive gameplan. The Union line made many key tackles in this defensive role, and anyone who managed to break through this rugged defense was met by sure- tackling Cliff Cohen in the open- field. The first-half came to a close with Union up, 3-0, on a penalty kick by Burt Slavin. the score 9-4 in favor of Union. Albany came right back and what appeared to be a- score was called back on an illegal pass. Hits and tackles reached the intensity of being dirty and a costly Albany penalty turned into three more points for Un:ion, virtually putting the game out of reach, 12-4. Albany refused to quit though, and backed Union to their goal line for the remainder of the con test. As pride would have it, Union refused t() let up and held them out. A happy and somewhat relieved Union team had beaten another highly respected opponent 12-4 in a game closer than the score indicates. b1.1ilt up a solid 15-4 a(l'Vantage. Uni()n began to come b;ack and Mike Forcier took the :pa.ll in, closing the deficit to 15·8. The closing minutes of the garne saw a tired Albaqy State squad struggling to hold o.ff the charging Union rugger~. It all c<une to late however, an<l A.lbany held on to the win. The victory and the setf)ack leave the Union rugby tealll with a commendable 11-3-1 record against the most strenuous ~chedule in its history.lt has only one game left against a talented Utica-Rome squad this Satu~day. Corne to Library Field and support this spirited Union Rugby Club. Ruggers Cliff Farrell and Brian Bagley vs. Albany State The second-half was violently voracious; the desire to win being · expressed in overly-aggressive fashion. Albany was not to be denied, and despite Union's scrappy serum and determined defense, they powered for a score .. With momentum being on the side of Albany, things were. looking bad for Union, but the old reliables came through again .. Hustler Pete Falkner emerged from a pile of players with the ball, broke a couple of tackles ' and handed the ball off to Jim Trump who outran the opponents . for a pretty try. Burt's kick maqe The •• B\ side started quite explosively as. tough-running Cliff Farrell ran through opponents and was stopped just short of the goal line. Albany cleared the ball out ·of the defensive zone only to have Cliff do it again moments later. This time he actually got in but had the ball knocked from his hands and pounced on by Albany. Union charged back again and this time Charlie Fenson put his head down and hulled Union into a 4-0 lead. Racquetmen End Season BY LARRY LIN·E'TT ,Alas, another tennis sciledule has come to ag, end. It started' out The tide soon changed as a makeshift team witm several however, and Albany took. new faces, new personalities, new advantage of every break scoring idea.s. Few established \veterans\ two trys and a penalty kick and · and not much leadership. Coming - . . . - - pnion Nine Close It Up The Union College Varsity Baseball team, struggling to reach· a record of .500, brought its final record to 5-8 for the season. The final games resulted in one win, and two losses. The outcome of the Dutchmen's first game last week read more like a football score, as the Dutchmen romped over Albany State by the score of 20-8. . Joe Lavery went all the way for the Dutchmen for the win, with the aid of a powerful supporting cast. Dave Adsit led the way for the Dutchmen with a Herculean. effort that inCluded a home run over right field wall, and two bottom of the last inilmg, triples. Carmen Gatta contributed Rochester's batters exploded for a tW() doubles and a triple, Trace total of three runs tc !limk the Anderson banged out even two Union squad by a sc()re ·()f 6-5. more triples. Altogether the For the Union cause, Carm Gatta Dutchmen and their offense smashed a home run. Juoil)r Dan exploded to soak the Albany DeGregory hit for two singles at pitcher for 17 hits. his appearances at the plate. On Friday the Dutchmen Last Friday Union tra-velled to travelled to Rochester to Geneva to face Hobart. A lot of challenge the U. of R. Yellow hits, and a lot of errors on the Jackets. Senior John Mayer Union side helped make the score pitched what was perhaps the best 10-8. The Dutchmen cuthit their 8 innings of the season, holding opponents by 14 hits, but Rochester to three single-run combined the big offemse with innings. Going into the ninth,· sloppy play in the .field... By the Union was up 5-3, but, in the third inning Union found them~lves down ')-0,. partly because of errors. The Union starter, Senior Charlie Flanagan was relieved in favor of Joe Lavery, who shut d()wn the Hobart attack, and helped his own cause with a four br five performance at the plate. Dave Adsit again provided the ()ffense with two hits, and also muscled out a home run. Catrn Gatta aided the Dutchmen ca:use with his two hits, one of tlle!D l>eing a double. The Union Baseballers have now ended yet another season. This year's 5-8 record, a d«!fi.nite improvement over last :year's i- ll- t season can oo.ly provide , hope for future years. .. off a pertectty · horrendous 1-9 for their money on that' day. season the previous year, most Winners, all in straight sets, were optimistic on the outside but. included going down the line: really questioning therpselves on · Larry Linett, Dennis Lindenberg, the inside.. Doug Rice, Jon Levin-Epstein, Everyone knew the disadvantages from the start - a limited tennis budget which meant not much indoor time for· snowy and rainy days, a part time coach, and the always unpredictable Schenectady weather. Well, the netmen did not have an undefeated team but ended up with a respectable 4-4 record. Two meets in which the Dutchmen were almost assured of victories had to be cancelled on account of rain. l he netters 7th meet of the year was played at home in front of th<:: (sometimes) partial crowd. Despite the occasional .. obnoxious\ behavior on the part of a few of the Dutchmen to stir up some depressed attitudes. the team went down to defeat at the hands of Middlebury; marking their first loss on the home courts this year. Mitch Brana, and Paul Wantuck. Seeond doubles was the only blemi~h on the day, as Lindenberg a11d Mark Burnett lost the \Sympathy Bowl.\ Final score of the meet: U.nion-8, Hartwittk~l. Defore closing l would like to mention a few people who certainly deserve it. Rolf Lipton, a junior, suffered a broken wrist before the start of the season that kept him sidelined this year. Although Rolf didn't play in any matches, lie helped out at all home meets, collecting scores .and being a general servant to the players. Rolf will be back next year to see if he can break his other wrist. · Roy Lipson played superlative tennis in the beginning of the season and would have been a deciding factor in recent matches but a nagging shoulder injury that just would not heal kept him out toward the end . of the season. Only a freshman, though, his The sole singles wm came at the talent may be seen next yeat. first position with Larry Linett winning in straight sets. Doubles Jeff Cohen played starting wasn't too much better for the singles and doubles for the first racquetmen as their only win few meets, but was sidelined when came at the I st position, with · his shin splints acted up. He will Doug Rice teaming with Linett -be back again with us next year, fo~ the victory. · also. The team~s last match of ·the year was played Monday on the home courts and those who took some time out of their busy schedules to attend saw one helluva tennis exhibition, as the netmen picked apart the Hartwick squad, 8-1. · The singles_ were all Uutchmen, who played like a team possessed that in no way could lose the last match especially ()D ••theit turf.\ Some even felt that the netters would have given UCLA a run A special word for two seniors who played their last matches for Union on Monday, and needless · to say, went out in winning style. Dennis Lindenberg, captain of this year's team, brought with him a fine attitude as well as superior tennis hdent. He brought everyone's spirits up when the team was dejected after the first few meets and had the best overhead on the team (self- proclaimed). .I BASEBA:LL STATISTICS - 10 GAMES I Paul Wantuck, a steady performer who had the second best record on the team will also be sorely missed next year. Paul was the only member who wanted to play on the fast courts and was known to do countless Physics problems at away meets. Senior John Mayer bears down on Rochester opponent .. ' I l I '· .; Player Adsit Anclerson Borgese Grotz DeGregory Lavery Gatta Ma:isaroni . ,·' AB R H 40 9 16 20 2 6 37 li 9 33 7 8 29 7 7 38 7 9 35 4 8 27 4 6 lB 3B 2 1 0 0 2 0 2 2 1 1 0 0 1 0 I 1 I 0 2 1 0 l 0 0 HR RBI 7 3 II 4 3 3 4 3 AVG .400 .300 .243 .242 .241 .237 .229 .222 Finally, it wouldn•t be complete if Coach Ioder Singh wasn't mentioned. Coach Singh brought with him an extremely optimistic attitud~ as well as a tremendous knowledge of the game. He's a super guy even if he does· look ''kinda funny.'' t: o . •••• c :I The Tr1 NESCAC Thomas li ended the embroiled ye.ar. CONO night that was passe The Fa' Board of authority Thomas the Colle are convi acted un1 that aut~ conseque1 sadness witnessed respect a the edm progressi' administr the disso the Pre1 campus faculty ! that P incapabl~ sense of essential The n by se.cret and 24, I Ballots 1 members passage tantamo1 confiden On F.r of the I Chapel. proposal steering Prof. \ Prof. Ne Math, f Prof. G the task resolutic fonnula1 on by 1 and Tu termed and tho the fac1 the ul reputati' sub~~~

a of or ht ok / ·~ c:~ 0 ·•llilili _ .... c :I U,· '· IJ .II Ganz, O'Toole Elected Last Tltursday, five run-off elections were held in order to · determine . the worthy c&ndidates who would take over the offices of Junior Trustee, President, Vice-President, Junior Representative and Sophom<:>re Representative for the academic year 1977-78. Over llOO students turned out to register their votes during the allotted 12 hour period which, when totaled, yielded victors for four of · the five contested positions. The students involved ·in the run-offs were determined from the election results two days earlier. 'in this previous election, Todd Miller was the outright winner for Secretary of the Student rorum and Murray Levison gained one of the Junior Representative posts. next year's student representatives on the Board of Trustees. The Presidential race ended with Michael Ganz the victor as he held on the lead he had gained earlier, .soundly defeating his gallant opponent, Joel Sherman, by a count of 614 to 395. Thus, Ganz leaves his present Forum. post of Vice-President fm: the more prestigious oft'ice of student body President. ln the Vice-Presidential contest, Jo-Ann Messina maintained her healthy lead and won by a large margin over John Speer, 686 to 305. The victory made her the first Union College woman to serve at this position. representative. The closest contest ol the day which resulted in a decision was lor the two Sophomore Representative spots. During the first election, thirteen candidates were reduced to but three - Amy Kloner, Michael Arato and Randy hldman. In the run-ott Kloner, who had held a lairly large lead ·over her opposition, was edged by Arato and 1--cldman as they gained many votes during the period between the original election and the run-ofts. l'he final tally stood as follows: Arato- 210; Feldman-206, and Kloner- 196. New Junior Trustee, Brien O'Toole The battle for Jun'ior Trustee resulted in victory for Brien O'Toole, as he extended his 13 vote lead from the regular election on May 17, defeating ex- student representative Bill Jenkins 586 to 464. By winning, O'Toole now joins Andrew Koblenz as The class representative races resulted in the two candidates for the second Junior Representative position, write-ins Steve Grill and Bill Wade, finding themselves deadlocked with 127 votes apiece at final tally. This tie causes yet another run-off which will be held tomorrow, Thursday, May 26 in Carnegie from 10:.15 until 6:15 . Sophomores, we urge you to vote, the winner will be YOUR The Election Committee was very pleased with the turnout. Next year's Chairman Bob Morgan said, .. th-ere were scheduling problems but hopefully the Forum will work a little more closely with us next year so that we may avoid a recurrence of these problems. One wish is to have voting booths. On the whole, we were very pleas~d with the turnout and with the members of the committee who sacrificed many late hours.\ Faculty Reacts to Trustee Decision Special recognition is due to the students both on and not on the Election Committee who helped count the votes at the elections under the ~upervi~ion of outgoing stqdent body President Jim Trump. Students involved The Trustees' decision to .leave NESCAC and reinstate Dr. Thomas Bonner has evidently not ended the controversy which has embroiled Union College this ye.at. CONCORDY learned last night that the following resolution was passed by· the_ Faculty: The Faculty recognizes that the Board of Trustees acted within its authority in reappointing Dr. Thomas Bonner as President of the College for 1977:-78. Yet we are convinced that the Board has acted unwisely in the exercise of that authority and we. view the consequences of its decision with sadness and dismay. Having witnessed the erosion in the respect accorded the College by the educational community, a progressive deterioration in the administration of the College, and the dissolution of confidence in the President by the various campus constituencies, we the faculty are forced to conclude that President Bonner is incapable of reconstituting the sense of trust and mutual respect essential to leading the institution. The resolution was approved by se.cret mail ballot on May 23 and 24, by a margin of l02 to 29. Ballots were sent to 156 faculty members; 131 were returned. The passage of the resolution is tantamount ot a vote of no confidence in President Bonner. On f'.riday, May 20, a meeting of the Faculty was held in Old Chapel. At this time two proposals were considered. A steering committee consisting of Prof. Underwood; Poii. Sci., Prof. Nelson, English, Prof. Bick, Math, Prof. Ketchum, ME, and Prof. Gado, English, was given the task of combining these two resolutions and the committee formulated a proposal as voted on by the faculty this Monday and Tuesday. Prof. Underwood termed the meeting \deliberate and thQUghti'ul/' He stressed that the faculty was concerned with the ultimate well-being and reputation of Union, and were subsequentlY acting in a positive ' I I o 4 ' I I ' ~ ' • ' ' • • 0 ' ' • I 0 0 • ' manner. The steering committee was also charged With the task of looking into avenues of action that the tacUllf could pursue. The rift between the Faculty and the President is not the only division on campus. It is widely known that Associate Dean of Faculty Potts, Dean of Faculty Brownlee, Dean of Students Smith, and Provost Enteman are all in disagreement with the actions and policies of the Bonner Presidency. ln student government elections this past week, Michael Oanz was elected President and .Brien O'Toole Junior Trustee. Both have been critics o:f Dr. Bonner's athletic and educational philosophies. They will work next year with Andrew Koblenz. soon to be the Senior Student Trustee, who has gone down on record tavoring Dr. Bonner's resignation. President-elect Ganz told CONCORD¥, \the Trustees made a mistake in rehiring Bonner, the man~s policies and not just on hockey, are incompatible with our tradition of excellence and moral standards within a Liberal Arts education.\ At first, many thought that Bonner's one year contract was just a breather to give the President time to look for another job. However, one campus trustee says this is not so· and that Dr. Bonner received a real vote of contldence. The Special Committee of Trustees, chaired by Dr. Lee Davenport, submitted their recommendations to the Board last WednesdaY. The Continued on Pill 7 were: Election Committee Chairman Don LoCascio, Assistant Chairman Bob Morgan, Bob Beatty, Rich Budd, Peter Crames, Harris Halpert, Andrew Koblenz, Lynn Laffin, Julia Smagorinsky, Betty Small, Linda Straube, and David Swin~in. Elections almost completed, it is hoped that our newly elected student representatives will work their hardest, do their absolute best and r:emember to truly stand for the student body they have been chosen to represent. All-College ·senate Gathers by MUN.RA Y LEVISON recommendations were moved The All-College Senate met last· and seconded. Thursday for the fourth time-this Student Forum President Jim term. Of the eight items on the Trump wanted a student to be agenda, only five were discussed added to the group that will before the meeting abruptly authorize the funding of adjourned, without even a formal. proposals. An amendment to the vote. - recommendations adding the The first item was approval of President of the Student l'orum previous minutes. Some changes to the Foundation Board was in the minutes of April 14 and approved by a unanimous voice- April 26 were discussed. A vote. motion was made to change the Professor Wells moved that minutes of April 14, and this lost two out of the three categories of 9-8 with President Bonner proposals be dropped, fmm the breaking the tie. recommendation because he felt Courses that had been that the third category took care approved by the Educational of the other two. Poiicy Committee were approved 1t was brought out that all by the Senate by a voice vote. three categories were needed. The The next issue discussed was first one was for P & P and EPC the htternal Educational to identify programs to be Foundation Implementation implemented during a specific section. Provost Enteman spoke year; the second one was i'or the on the IEF, relating discussions Foundation Board to determine held between himself, Dean programs to be implemented;· and Brownlee, Professor Thimm the third was for anyone to (Chairman · of the EPC), and suggest things that they would Professor Maciariello (Chairman like to study. The tlrst two of the Planning and Priorities categories, which were tile ones Committee). These four people that Wells wanted to delete, were charged by tlle Senate with t'epresented areas which the school implement such programs. This proposed amendment lost . 12-10. The entire recommen- dations as amended were then approved. Professor Phaup then yielded to Professor Tidmarch, Chairman of the Continuing Education Committee, so that Tidmarch could explain his Committee's proposal to admit a maximum of 20 students over 24 years of age mto the undergraduate daytime Continued on 1 Page 5 . ' preparing ·a recommendation for could put its support behind, and implementation of the IEF ask the campus community if proposal, which had previously anyone would like to try to work . bee~ .Passe~. ~Y . th~ Senate. Th~ .. out a proposal of how to ................. ~e~~te meet~ng_ in. ~~de:

I .·, ; ' :I . ' tl Page2 ,EDITORIALS, justice· On August 9, 1974, Richard Nixon resigned from the presidency, lacking tile support of the Congress, fellow apministrators, and the nation. Under the provisions of a democratic structure, vice- president Gerald Ford was appointed acting president and within a month the nation had regained a positive path. In other words, the chief executive of this nation lost his leadership qualities and subsequently gave up his office. The analogies to Watergate at Union may well be cliches, but importantly it is a clear method of describing the current campus situation. On May 18, 1977, the. trustees of Union C-ollege met in New York City to decide the t'ate of many explosive issues. They VC?_ted 13-8 to reject the report by the Special investigative Committee and lS-6 to vote confidence in President Bonner. The Special Investigative Committee report was a clear pronouncement not to renew Bonner's contract. Importantly, the vote was. not consistent, but the final tally was 3-3 with chairman Lee L. Davenport not casting a vcte, The decision to vote confidence in the President came as a shock to the campus ccm:munity. On May 23rd and 24th the faculty voted 102-29 to conclude that President Bonnet is \incapable of reconstituting the sense of trust and mutual respect essential to leading the institution.\ The faculty stressed that this resolution was made in a positive sense to aid the college. Concordiensis is also of the belief that President Thomas Bonner is incapable of leading Union College. We cite the following points as reasons for this conclusion. (I) President Bonner does not have fellow administmtive support. His Provost, Dean of Students, Dean of Faculty, and .other high level administrators are amon~ his most outspoken critic_s. - - (2} The President does not have faculty support. Clearly, the faculty can no longer work with President Bonner as shown in their acceptance of their resolution. (3) Bonner does not have student support. Overwhelming Student Forum and involved students' opinion ( Concordiensls as well) concur that the president has lost his effectiveness. Many of the newly elected rorum representatives have openly criticized Bonner's leadership. (4) Pres1dent Bonner's educational po.hcy deptcung Unton as \a comprehensive college in a liberal arts setting\ degrades the dignity ul a liberal arts education. His plans to ex.pand the peripheral and graduate programs, while allowing stagnation of the undergraduate loundation ol this institution, is not acceptable. Additionally, Honner's attempt to gain recognition for this institution should not have been through athletics, but rather by emphasizing and further strengthening Union's traditwnal educational programs. Specthcally, attempts to lortify the Arts Program, enlarge library lacilltles, and mtergrate undergraduate departments would have presented a more advantageous route lor this college. (5) Since Bonner's arrival at Umon, there have been a vast array ot unethical practices surrounding his administration. Among these are 1rregulanues concerning admission standards and athletic recruitment. While at this time it cannot be proven that the focus of blame lalls on Dr. lhomas Benner, his lack ol forceful and nghteous action has eroded h1s personal integrity. <.:oncordiensis 1s more than dismayed with the· Trustees mdects1veness and their inability to end the present campus paralysis. I rustees have the right to exert their influence over !acuity and students, however, their actions do not indicate responsible and pensive leadership of Union Coll~ge. In the same breath, we would like to thank Dr. Lee l. Davenport, chainnan of the Special lrustee Committee, lor his cooperation in allowing Concordiensis to be responsible to the college community. We encourage the Trustees to seriously reevaluate the Davenport report and to reverse their vote of confidence in President Bonner. Is it August 9, 1974 again'! u~ - cola.,. • . , 1 concorotent:?.l_5 Editor--in-Chief..... . .................................................... Danny WoJnilower. Associate Ed1tor ................................................................................. Ben Green News Ednors ..................................................... Andy Mitchell, Matt Nago.rsky ~:~~~:e ~d~:~,:~·.· .. ···.· ·.· . ·.·.·_- ·.·.·.· ··.·. '_'_'_' ............. ·.·· :.· .':: .... : . .':, :: ·:::: .':: ::::::: .':: _'_' .J;:r;~f!;~~i~ ~pon,:. ldaton ..... <.. uh!lrt ld1to1 .. , Uu>lllC» \.l.tradgel' ClaS>IIIcd~ I d1tor' Ph<~h> !'ditnr' Phntngrarh\ Staff Art Ed!tOL Poetry l:dllor ....... . ........ L>ebb~e l'oklto, Mdrlj l>ol.w · krn I ., .. mcnh.tltl B.trhar.a Stern. \1.niJ I ti,. Patti \loran, -Martha Ruhen\cin Jon Fle,cher. SteVe Crrill Fd .Plat1. Neil K ronir.k Cary t-~verm;Jn, Marc botle1b ... Lester Weiss .. Velanne S1ageman Staff thiS week......... ·· .... :.: ... ~;\·\~Andrew Wasof!. Linda Straube:. Paul Casitauuo;Cilldy Aranow 1 CONCORDIENSIS is published e~er) Wedn~sday by the stude~t bod) of Union ('oilege, Old Gym Hall, Schenectady, New York; to ' which Postai Forms 3579 are directed. Publications Office: The Jewish World Publications, 416 Smith St., S'henectady, N.Y. 12305 (370.5483). Entered in the Schenectady Post. Office as Second Cliss Matter. Suliserlption Rate 35 cents per copy, SI.O. a year delivered anywhere in tile United States. •.. CONCORDIENSIS, May 25, 1977 NESCAC Out, Bonner In by MATT BRIEF 1 used to describe Union as a nice smaU liberal arts college with an excellent reputation. There were many wonderful things al>out our college. The stud~nts were close-knit and could inter~ingle with a faculty that cared more for teaching in the ¢lassroom than publishing works of esoterica. It was a college of accessible administrators, who befriended students and felt that education was more ~h~n a market to be conquored. We had reason to be proud of ·our ideals. AU ditlerent types of students w.ere welcome. Our Admissions process recognized special talents and awarded them accordingly. However, any student that couldn't meet minimal standards woulc;i. not be admitted. Similarly, Financial. Aid was doled cut fairly and everyone was given the same treatment in our academic world. Perhaps all of this could be reflected in our ,governance structure, There were close to 30 committees and an AU~College Senate working for a better Union. Over 120 students sat on committees ranging from Admissions to Support Services. Each year there were over 400 applications for these positions. Administrators like Dean Smith, Dean Brownlee, and Provost Enteman worked to make Union a better place to study. These were concerned efforts of moral - • questions unanswered Dear Editors: l find it shocking that the only news of tb.e recent terrorist activities on campus was an ambiguous letter by Jeff Scheininger. Students are lacking information and no one seems ready to give it. Is it true that earlier in the term • · two hockey players, Doug Feasby and Jack Rankin, visited the editorial offices of . CMKlordy and that meeting bas discouraged any anti· hockey news? Do you fear for your physical well being? Did you report this visit to Dean Smith and request protection · · against this type of .thing? Did you ask Coach H~kness to oontrol \'his boys'r' Dean Smith~ President Bonner, etc. Do you really believe this. · scbool can stand up to the moral judgement of what a ··university atmosphere is supposed to be if the student paper is being censored by · · terrorist. tactics'! people wno chose substance ·over style, and 'sought noble ends achieved by dignifi~d means. We worked through a governance process that moved· sluggishly but fast enough to replace Co~p. Eds. and pass me!lsures like the Internal Education Foundation. · The trustees' recent decision to leave NESCAC attd grant Tom Bonner a ~me-year contract is a blow to those who have had faith in certain educational ideals and believed that stu!leilts, faculty; and administrators could work together. The decisions affirm the ugliness of 'lJ niotl: thb~ past year. !he trustees seem to . have atiinned the fluclcster approach of Bonner and said; yes, we'll sell Union College like General Electric sells refrigerators. AU . too much attention has focused on tbe . HCJckey program and the Hockey players have in many ways beccme victims. Having said that, it must be siad that the type of prognrm run by Ned Harkness and encouraged by Tom Bonner is ,llot compatible with our educatiCJnal ideals. It was a program that could not really succeed withiJ;t our Governance process, so:. Dr. Bonner has sought tc destroy that process. lnceed, Machiavelli would be smiling in admiration. From the start, Dr. Bonner claimed that he would abide by campus sentiment. First, he appointed an Athletic Task Force In terms oJ' information, what disciplinary action is being taken against these players who have disrupted the tranquility and harmony of campus lite? ls it true that twelve hockey players. tried to drag a distinguished student out of the Pub, in front of many witnesses. for the purpose of beating him with sticks? And is it tme that the hockey players and Ned Harkness, wben confronted by Dean Smith in a meeting. bad the audacity to claim that this student tried to provoke a fight with twelvoe lllJek-ey players? Whom are they kidding? The offenders shauld be expelled automatically, if this is what took place, and 1, urge you, the stu®m body; t3 make your feelings .clear to Dean Smith and the Conduct Ombudsman Committee. Is it true tbal $everal hockey players were drunk and rowdy in Priee Chopper and a manager \''verheard them say they · were going to \get Kershner\ and later that night over $700 of dattlage IEF Passed On Thursday_past the Senate completed its deliberations on the IEF proposal. While passed in theory the week before. the actual implementation was stalled because the involved committees, EPC and P&P, could not decide on who would implement the program. .Feeling pressure to make an expedient decision before the term expired, they passed a mediatin~ decision, This decision mad·e the chairmen of E PC and P&P, the Dean of Faculty, Dean of Students, and the President of the Forum directly responsible for the allocating of these funds. Concordy praises the passage and .impending implementation of the lEF program. While administrative hurricanes have raged, the IEF has been a shining innovation in education at Union. It will allow the enactment of a \Steinmetz Curriculum\ (honors program); Additional tnonies will be earmarked for faculty and student research. This fund will provide the means for necessa~y and desired educational programs. The actual distribution of these funds remains to be worked out by the 1;1dministrative committee. The fact that the proposal was accepted is indicative of the educational push by faculty and students (especially the P&P Conurtittee) for academics above all else. · which includ~d alumni, students and faculty. Professor Kershner, Bonner's \hand;.picked choice\ for Acth~g Athletic Director. and Jim TQ..tl!lp, Varsity Fotball player and President of the Student Forum both sat on the .Task Force. Thek nnal recommendations were to stay Devision II and remain in NESCAC. Dr. Bonner reneged on his pledge to support . the Task Force and Profe&~or Kershner mysteriously steppe(l. down :horn the A..D. position to resume teaching. then the AU~College Senate voted on the Hockey issue. Senatcirs bad information available to them that could not be publicly released becasue of the damage it might de to cel'tain individuals on campus. The Senate voted decisively to remain in NESCAC aQ.d Division ll Hockey. Shortly after the Sel}ate meeting, Coach Harkness was suspended fm lying to Bortner about recruiting violations. Admissions Director Jay Shupe subntilted his resignation because .of at least two :v.iolations· in the Admissions process with regard to the Hockey program. A special committee was formec;i. of three campus trustees and two extra · faculty members to investigate irregularities in the Hockey progvam. was 4<me to his home? ls it true that this · manager refuses to testify for tear of losing his job because the owner is. an ardent lrockey supporter? is it true that this same owner withdrew his ofter to have the Glee Chib perform at SP'AC after Division 1 was voted down'/ Do we really wailt this man's money when it cheapens our integrity'? How much money is he prepared to $ive to a new arts building or towards the library'! . ls it true that lead~ anti- hockey spokesmen have been harassed by phone ~1s . at !light? Is it true that Clift W ooo is protecting tlw identity of several hockey players who overtumed the car o.f a girl wbo lives off-campus, and if so wby? ls · it true that the Trustees voted -to reinstate Bonner after the iwestigating team recottunerwe.4 · his temination? Exactly bow m'any administrative ptJsts will be vacated next year ana will this college's adminjstration be as paralyzed as it seems'l Is it trne that people are ttyins to get rid of Dean Smith before tm''h\lekey Mji~''''j~O'olii'S•· Qlf('tk7' 'Wffltt tlXa!ttl$fi WaS Af~ffi,;;·,.:,.;.r&:e·· N te:tte'r · ·b'i:nf ,. by •.tMt'tttM~Ie!lltilrY'§, ,. pfesidt!~t\'''' to BbrMEit·tp 1~ 'tt ··true' tlillt Wti'' ·are ' ·· t:lose to beifig investigated by \' the NCAA? w·hat ab()Ut all ~· the stories one hears dboutgolt vacations all.d telephone calls? Where is this college's integrity? Where is toe moral leadership that places . the . concept of a University above · that of a winning hock~Y \\ tett'm? io paraphrase the ·••\w6rds of a fortner·HnlversitY •... ,,c,l~~~;~~~~~. ~f'resi~e\.!i cOlltge·~~th~e;·,~ :~~~:::~;: •• Dr. inactiv memo1 govern studen voices . writte• was 1 tlie c a!ld ti ~nd accorc lorn I campt Wh' Union . they 1 ''l'hc;;y comm Dave gover Bonne comrr · s,poke ad·mir Thi meeti1 called tepon Bonne ·Pres imme1 ~plit logica inforr the : comrr unfo in for interp :adn you ·situ inf€ one Wb the hid' • Ir l'o I Ot OL sur tru stt ad< ('.n ·un l ho me gra ., _.- •., ,.

Pagel EDITORIALS Justice On August 9, 1974, Richard Nixon resigned from the presidency, lacking the support of the Congress, fellow administrators, and the nation. Under the provisions of a democratic structure, vice- president Gerald Ford was appointed acting president and within a month the nation had regained a positive path. In other words, the chief executive of this nation lost his leadership qualities and subsequently gave up his office. The analogies to Watergate at Union may well be cliches, but importantly it is a clear method of describing the current campus situatian. On May 18, 1977, the trustees of Union College met in New York City to decide the fate of many explosive issues. They v~ted 13-8 to reject the report by the Special Investigative Committee and 15-6 to vote confidence in President Bonner. The Special Investigative Committee report was a clear pronouncement not to renew Bonner's contract. Importantly, the vote was not consistent, but the final tally was 3-3 with chairman Lee L. Davenport not casting a vote. The decision to vote confidence in the President came as a shock to the campus community. On May 23rd and 24th the faculty voted 102-29 to conclude that President Bonner is \incapable of reconstituting the sense of trust and mutual respect essential to leading the institution.\ The faculty stressed that this resolution was made in a positive sense to aid the college. Concordiensis is also of the belief that President Thomas Bonner is incapable of leading Union College. We cite the following points as reasons for this conclusion. (I) President Bonner does not have fellow administrative support. His Provost, Dean of Students, Dean of Faculty, and other high level administrators are amon~ his most outspoken critics. - . (2) The President does not have faculty support. Clearly, the faculty can no longer work with President Bonner as shown in their acceptance of their resolution. (3) Bonner does not have student support. Overwhelming Student Forum and involved students' opinion (Concordiensis as well) concur that the president has lost his effectiveness. Many of the newly elected Forum representatives have openly criticized Bonner's leadership. (4) President 'Bonner's educational pohcy deptctmg Umon as .. a comprehensive college in a liberal arts setting\ degrades the dignity ot a liberal arts education. His plans to expand the peripheral and graduate programs. while allowing stagnation of the undergraduate toundation ol this institution, is not acceptable. Additionally, Bonner's attempt to gain recognition for this institution should not have been through athletics, but rather by emphasizing and further strengthenmg Union's traditional educational programs. Spcctlically. attempts to fortify the Arts Program, enlarge library tactlittes, and intergrate undergraduate departments would have presented a more advantageous route lor this college. (5) Since Bonner's arrival at Union, there have been a vast array ol unethical practices surrounding his administration. Among these are irregularities concerning admission standards and athletic recrUitment. While at this time it cannot be proven that the focus of blame tails on Ur. lhomas Bonner, his lack ol forceful and righteous action has eroded his personal integrity. C.:oncordiensis is more than dismayed with the Trustees mdectsiveness and their inability to end the present campus paralysis. I rustees have the right to exert their influence over !acuity and students, however, their actions do not indicate responsible and pensive leadership of Union College. In the same breath, we would like to thank Dr. Lee L. Davenport, chairman of the Special Trustee Committee, for his cooperation in allowing Concordiensis to be responsible to the college community. We encourage the Trustees to seriously reevaluate the Davenport report and to reverse their vote of confidence in President Bonner. Is it August 9, 1974 again'! union - col~ • • , concor01ena-15 Edttor·rn-Chtcl . A;;octate ldttor .. !~Jew' I-.dttor; ... Layout !:d1tor . t-eat ure ldtt<H. :O,porb Ldt•ur' ( ulturc LJHut Bu'lllt.:\\ \1..sr~...tgc.:J-. ( 1.\\lli~J\ f dtt<H' Ph!llll I Jll\H ... l'hoto~r<iph\ '-.t.dl Art fcdl!nr Poetry l:dttor. Staff thrs week.. .. .......... Danny WoJ nillll.•er . . Hen (,recn . .......... Andy Mttchell. Matt ~agor~k} . . . .. . . . .. .. . . . . ....... .J ne Ca ppuccw SarJ Smunon' . De bbtc f'olcllo, :I. I Jlt} IJoiJn ' I ern l,,,rncnh.JII , ll.lfh.11.1 '-.tern. \1.trl.J I \' l'att1 \-1or,w. Martha Ruhen,h·tn .l<1n l·lc,cher. Stc\c (inll Fd Plat/. :\etl Krnmck Cary t·e,erman. Marc (wtleJb . , .e,ter We\' Delanm· Stagcrnan ....... : ... ~:· .. ·~ Andrew W1soff, Lmda Straube:_ Paul Castrataro, Cindy Aranow 1 CONCORDIENSIS is published every Wednesday by the student body of Union College, Old (iym Hall, Schenectady, New York; to ' which Postal Forms 3579 are directed. Publications Office: The Jewish World Publications, 416 Smith St., Schenectady, N.Y. 11305 ( 370-5483 ). Entered in the Schenectady Post Orfice as Second Class Matter. Subscription Rate l5 cents per copy, $10. o year delivered anywhere in the United States. CONCORDIENSIS, May 25, 1977 NESCA C Out, Bonner In by MATT BRI·EF I used to describe Union as a nice small liberal arts college with an excellent reputation. There were many wonderful things about our college. The students were close-knit and could intermingle with a faculty that cared more for teaching in the classroom than publishing works of esoterica. It was a college of accessible administrators, who befriended students and felt that education was more than a market to be conquored. We had reason to be proud of our ideals. All different types of students were welcome. Our Admissions process recognized special talents and awarded them accordingly. However, any student that couldn't meet minima:l standards would not be admitted. Similarly, Financial Aid was doled out fairly and everyone was given the same treatment in our academic world. Perhaps all of this could be reflected in our governance structure. There were close to 30 cammittees and an All-College Senate working for a better Union. Over 120 students sat on committees ranging from Admissions to Support Services. Each year there were over 400 applications for these positions. Administrators like Dean Smith, Dean Brownlee, and Provost Enteman worked to make Union a better place to study. These were concerned efforts of moral - questions unanswered Dear l<.:ditors: I find it shocking that the only news of the recent terrorist activities on campus was an ambiguous letter by Jeff Scheininger. Students are lacking information and no one seems ready to give it. Is it true that earlier in the term two hockey players, Doug Feasby and Jack Rankin. visited the editorial offices of Concurdy and that meeting has discouraged any anti* hockey news? Do you tear for your physical well being? Did you report this visit to Dean Smith and request protection· against this type ofthing? Did you a.Sk Coach Harkness to control \his boys't' Dean Smith~ President Bonner. etc. Do you really believe this·. school can stand up to the moral judg~ment of what a university atmosphere is supposed to be if the student paper is being censored by terrorist tactics'! people wno chose substance over style, and sought noble ends achieved by dignitie.d means. We worked through a governance process that moved sluggishly but fast enough to replace Comp. Eds. and pass measures like the Internal Education Foundation. The trustees' recent decision to leave NESCAC and grant Tom Bonner a one-year contract is a blow to those who have had faith in certain educational ideals and believed that students, faculty, and administrators could work together. The decisions affirm the ugliness of Union this past year. The trustees seem to have affirmed the Huckster approach of Bonner and said, yes, we;ll sell Union College like General Electric sells refrigerators. All . too much attention has focused on the Hockey program and the Hocf{ey players have in many ways become victims. Having said that, it must be siad that the type of program run by Ned Ha:rkness and encouraged by Tom Bonner is not compatible with our educational ideals. It was a program that could not real:ly succeed within our Governance process, so.. Dr. Bonner has sought to destroy that process. Inceed, Machiavelli would be smiling in admiration. From the start, Dr. Bonner claimed that he would abide by campus sentiment. First, he appointed an Athletic Task Force In terms of information, what disciplinary action is being taken against these players who have disrupted the tranquility and harmony of campus life? ls it true that twelve hockey players tried to drag a distinguished student out of the Pub, in front of many witnesses, for the purpose of beating him with sticks? And is it true that the hockey players and Ned Harkness, when coni'ronted by Dean Smith in a meeting, had the audacity t<> claim that this student tried to provokea t1ght with twelve hockey players? Whom are they kidding? The offenders should be expelled automatically. if this is what took place. and 1 urge you, the student body; to t:nake your teelings dear to Dean Smith and the Conduct Ombudsman Committee. Is it trne that several hockey players were drunk and rowdy in Priee Chopper and a manager 1>verheard them say they were going to \get · Kershner\ and later that night over $700 W()rth of damage IEF Passed On Thursday_past the Senate completed its deliberations on the IEF proposal. While passed in theory the week before, the actual implementation was stalled because the involved committees. E PC and P&P, could not decide on who would implement the program. Feeling pressure to make an expedient decision before the term expired, they passed a mediating decision. This decision made the chairmen of EPC and P&P, the Dean of Faculty, Dean of Students, and the President of the Forum directly responsible for the allocating of these funds. Concordy praises the passage and impending implementation of the IEF program . While administrative hurricanes have raged, the IEF has been a shining innovation in education at Union. It will allow the enactment of a \Steinmetz Curriculum\ (honors program). Additional monies will be earmarked for faculty and student research. This fund will provide the means for necessary and desired educational programs. The actual distribution of these funds remains to be worked out by the administrative committee. The fact that the proposal was accepted is indicative of the educational push by faculty and students (especially the P&P Committee) for academics above all else. · which included alumni, students and faculty. Professor Kershner, Bonner's \hand-picked choice\ for Acting Athletic Director, and Jim T.;ump, Varsity FotbaU player and President of the Student Forum both sat on the Task Force. Their final recommendations were to stay Devision II and remain in NESCAC. Dr. Bonner reneged on his pledge to support the Task Force and Professor Kershner mysteriously stepped down from the A.D. position to resume teaching. Then the AU-College Senate voted on the Hockey issue. Senators had info.rmation available to them that could not be publicly released becasue of the damage it might do to certain individuals on campus. The Senate voted decisively to remain in NESCAC and Division ll Hockey. Shortly after the Senate meeting, Coach Harkness was suspended for lying to Bonner about recruiting violations. Admissions Director Jay Shupe submitted his resignation because of at least two violations in the Admissions process with regard to the Hockey program. A special committee was formed of three campus trustees and two extra faculty members to investigate irregularities m the Hockey program. was done to his home'! ls it true that this manager refuses to testify for tear of losing his job because the owner is an ardent hockey supporter'! ls it true that this same owner withdrew his offer to have the Glee Cluh perform at SPAC after Division 1 was voted down? Do we really want this man's money when it cheapens our integrity'! How much money is he prepared to give to a new arts building or towards the library'! Is it true that leading anti- hockey spokesmen have been harassed by phone c~ns. at night? Is it true that Cliff Wood is protecting the identity of several hockey playerS who overturned the car of a girl who lives otl'-<:atnpusl and if so why? Is · it true that the Trustees voted ·to reinstate Bonner after the investigating team recommende.d b is termination? Exactly how many administrative posts will be vacated next year and will this college's administration be as paralyzed as it seems'/ ls it true that people are trying to get rid of Dean Smith before he can expel the hockey players in the hope that a new person will not understand the situation and allow these goons back? What exactly was in the letter sent by Middlebury's president to Bonner'! Is it true that we are close to being investigated bY the NCAA? What about all the stories one hears about goll vacations and telephone calls'' Where is this college·~ integrity? Where is the moral leadership that places the concept of a University above that of a winning hockey team? To paraphrase the words of a former University of Oklahoma president, Bonner seems to be saying, .. 1 want a college the hockey team can be proud of.\ Students this l$ your school. We ate the only · · · · · who can save the moral . •. . -~ ''the Dr. inacti' memo goven stude1 voices writte was The 1 and 1 and accor• Tern carnp Wt Uni01 they They comn Uav' gove Bonn comr spok1 admi lh meeti ca:Ilec rep or Bonn Pre~ imrne split logic; inter the comr unfc i nt 01 inter~ ad1 YOI s:it1 inf, ORl WI the hid • 11 Til 01 Ol su tn st ad 0 U1 1 he IDI g.r: : tf . . 'it ~ w w (:; t B

- l :Ients hner,. oice\ , and •tball the 1 the 'ina! stay l in :don Task ;hner from sume ~nate issue. t.tion l not le of :rtain The :main Il 11 enate was lDner ions. :hupe cause n the egard :,ecial three extra tigate ockey s it .tses his an [s it mer the 'AC Jted this >ens mch fJive or mti- )een ~ at ::.:un ltity who girl if so the ~tate ~ting his bow will ·will nbe Is it :g to :fore ekey ''new IWthe !llese ''VIaS •'·by ,,., to :f·are d by t all [golf ~Its? !\ge's 1oral the oove ;ckeY the ~rsity lent, ig; .. 1 tea111 ~lbill ''brtlY CONCORDIENSIS, May 25) 1977 Is Union ·wst? -~--- ...... •••••• Dr. Bonner was by no means inactive in this period. He sent memos to Trust~:;es attacking a governance structure in which students and Faculty were given voices. He allowed an article to be written in Sports. Illustrated that was riddled with inaccuracies. the community of Schenectady a!ld the people like Neil Golub and Bob Mac Namara were accorded greater consideration by Toni. Bonner than members of the campus comnmnity. When the ·trustees came to Union for their April meeting, they t'ound a. polari~ed campus. ·rhey formed their own special committee, chain:d. by Dr, Lee Davenp(>tt to study ·our goveraance structu1re and Bonner's conduct. Tbe trustee committee came on campus and · spoke with . various students, ad-ministrators, and faculty. This past Wednesday, a special meeting of the entire board was called. Tne special committee's report recommended that Dr. Bonner be 'fired and an acting President be appointed immediately. The committee was split but its conclusions were logical given the access to information that they had from tile members of the campus community. The other trustee!\, unfortunately, had their information filtered and interprete<! by Tom B<>nner, PR • ' '? ' . administration you wm not . tolerate tbtr situation any long~. Oeillan<t infGrtllation, for o-rtfy thetr can one make a go-od decision. Why are they afraid to give us the · truth? What are they hiding'! Student body member Robert R. Grusky Class of '7'> in-and -out l'o the Editor: B&nner IN and NES<:AC OUL iN and OUT, IN and · OUT .. ! think that just abou~ st:t~ up wbat IJ()nner and tf!e tntstees are . doing to . tl'le . · stude.nts. faculty - and administration of Union _ ('.o;Uege. Tom Bonner entered Uaion with the class of '78 and l say we make him an honorary (dishonorable?) member and torce him to graduate with us. · Greg M• •73 man Jack Maranville, anc:J Vice- President of Development Bob Rassmussen. Both the trustees and. the alumni, thus were not privy to the knoWledge of a college President · encouraging flagrant v.iolations of our Governance PrQcess. They· are oblivious. to the ugly incidents that have arisen recently on this campus, cepcerning .students, taculty and a<!ministratars. l'hus, the . trustees rejected the Davenport Committee report and gave Bonner a one-year extension. They voted to ieave NESCAC, which not ,oQ.ly accorded us. prestige in the academic world but was against the athletic abuses within an educational institution that we now condone. The 8oosters, have won our over our governance structure .. Why did the trustees vote as they did'! In past, they had a lack of information or were even given misleading information. Many .trustees, leaders in corporations _ chose to affirm the corporate structure anq 'keep -the top man rather than yield to campus subordinates. One can guess that others feel Boner will bring in money - so who cares about anything else'! . What are the ramifications'! N<>w,. we have no restrictions on our athletic programs, only the h9llow promise of Bonner of students. -~~ · in· g()od · conli~i~. cannot tt>lttateth~· flf · tl:F.tt· ha:ve \ been··' h!l .· 'ng at tltis · school Yet President Donner · has ·· remained isolat~d and·sil:ent-Qn th:ese itl.fraetions.. Surely, one would think, be would not permit favoritism O.r leniency in the case oi' · the abOve· menth;rned infta'Ctitms of coH¢ge rules. . The .administrati,qn has alsq had ita share. of. ::v,iolations of ethical practice. We n.o longer • have a director. nf admissions. It seems. that we. win not have a Prov-ost or a Dean or St.udents (these. at:;e, admittedly, rumprs}. qearty, there .is something gQitlg Q~ i1l the upper l(l:vels o1' the adminis.tratioo. It would be correct, as wen as politically expedient, for President Bonner · to order a full · inves:ijgat~~ .. Yet he.~. not. Why'! ls he hiding JOtnething? Tbe faculty, .Bonner's .last bastion of SlJPPUft.. are, it ~ms; ,a~ against him, citing bis l(fl'PJUC ¢~({latlsiU1rnst·poJi.CieS integrity. There will be scheduling diUiculiies, and as every Athletic Director candidate pointed out, to be without an Athletic conterence is costly and_il!ogical. NESCAC is just a minor casualty. Worse is the paralysis of our administration. Debbie Kilgus, Craig Carlson, and Therese Ambrusko are leaving. Presently, we ltave no Chief Librarian, Personnel Director, Business Director or Comptroller. Provost Enteman, Dean Smith, Dean Brownlee, and Dean Potts all openly disagree with Bonner's actions. Their jobs may be in jeopard;y as welL The .Chronicle of Higlter Edu.:ation has written of our .plight. In academic circles, Union runs the risk of having its reputation damaged. All this seems a large price for Thomas -Bonner_ He doesn:t understand a small college and never did. He came from big universities where students and faculty were minor figures. Bonner sees the market as paramount and will claim ends justify means .. lfyou support that mm:ality, support the man. However, the valul;!s of a . small liberal arts college like Union mq.s.t die in the process. Les us hope ·that students, faculty and other administrators, will try to persuade the grustees to reconsider aild dismiss Thomas Bonner. • l_ • JO~e lSSUe Editors,. Coneordimsis: K. urlos all around for what 1 ~nsider to be o-ne of the best joke\ issues of Cooeordy ever conceived! l am, of course, referring to ym.1r brilliantly satiric masterpiece of 5/18/77; gad~ what . a delt touch! The fr-ont page was a veritahJe dilly: \Bo-nner In, NESC.AC . Out\ made me rock with unrestrained merriment for a go0d ten minutes. J mean. let's fac~ tacts - why, with ~he Investigative Committee's recommendations submitted and the wnimous rumblings of a faculty 'vote of no co-*Uldenc~ .. • Anyway,. it was a su.peri:J bit of whimsy, and I cornpli~t you on your imaginative renditi()n of the Board of Trustee's .. vote.'' Barely had I sttpressed my last burst nf deep-throated chuckles when I espied Debbie Poletto's savagely sardonic masterpiece, .. Housing Controversy Continues ... ;,t~111•;;;o;.:···''i1~F ::.:'···,: :~~~r~.;~!~~~~~~:::':~%;;~~~~~::!~,~~'::~~!f,~~~i.:; 11 ~:~!:!2:!!!~'.: .. ,~a:: , . :·Al~P'Slli '.r· ,., . .,;~~mrP'feltelytiln:tfM~'!kiliO$erpa~r(jffii·':\ .. :~eaalilili~n..;·, siitntmttinx; · ttll· ·cjf' · th:tr· ·students · her~ , are· ·so .. · 'Wf'ifu,' wb:ieli W'ete' S11iiideto\iS~ - . togetbefartd pre•p-i'ofessional!y Have ~t!:tt aml~d hliShtly, bUt . Mhtuie. H~y, . c•mofi t\'OW: if t,be show wm be' p'ei'fotitted some big yak ol a . fellow almost cbn'l.pletery as . Written. physically harassed me, you tn any event; we know that the cart bet that out ·Dean .of adtltiniStriition is ·capable of, Students 'would that ,, : r:~ttts!lii.tl!f'ltf :Jlike.lf'.; ts.ttt ·it?'; : · · · ,, · Page3 Opinion: Mother's Watching by Robert Sharlet, Convener, UniQn Street Civil Rights Committee Bonner is certainly not Brezhnev and I am .surely not Sakharov, brtt the time has come to form the Union Street Civil Rights Committee in response to the Doctrine of Presidential Infallibility announced by a majority of the Trustees last week. If justice cannot I be obt11ined within this jurisdiction, then one must look bey()nd it to the 1good office& of external groups, organizations and even certain individuals committed to a distinction. between Right and Wrong. The Union Street Civil Rights Committee (USCRC) is founded on the simple premise that Thomas N. Bonner is President of the colle~ for .another year and thus morally and legally responsible for whatever occurs within his wtit. Therefore, the USCRC is dedicated to the defense of any student or faculty member who suffers a deprivation of his/her rights as a consequence of action or inaction by The President. Given the past few months, business should be brisk. The USCRC will act o'n a ca~;e by case basis, gauging its response to a given situation with the appropriate action. For instance, appeals for intervention will be addressed to local, state, and federal agencies charged with regulatory authority over educational institutions, but UN sanctions will not be invoked. Complaints will be filed with civil rights agencies at every level of government, but no action under the Helsinki Accords is anticipated. Copies of appeals and complaints will be duly sent to local, state,wide, and specialized educational media, but resort to the Washington fost is not under consideration at this time. As a moderate organization, USCRC will resist globalization of college issues. Detente can bear no further burdens. Whenever warranted, the USCRC Will support civil suits to redress wrongs. Whenever necessary, USCRC will press criminal charges, but plea bargaining will he encouraged and, under certain circumstances, pardon will be recommended. Assistance will be sought from private groups such as the ACLU and NAACP, the Anti-Defamation League, and the American Association of University Professors; but the need for Amnesty International is not foreseen in the immediate future. Again, all USCRC actions will be diligently publicized, but every attempt will be made to minimize adverse publicity for the college in the Far West, the Deep South, and the litg Sky Country. In cases ol the most egn;:gious violations ot student and faculty rights, USCRC will leave no stone unturned. A lctlcr, press .released, to the most prestigious of Union graduates . James Ea'rl Carter ol Washington, L>. C., will not be ruled out. However, no current plam are underway whtch mtght mterrupt the Energy Crisis, Weltare Rclorm. or the SAL I lalks. USCRC does .not vtcw the Nat-ional <Interest lightly. 1-inally, USCRC will from time to t1me be conductmg memberslup drives and inlormattonal campaigns Membership dnve~ arc planned lor Homecommg, Parents' Weekend and. tentatively, lor tl}c 1977 Commencement Exercises. USCRC will issue one-person or group charters tor new alfiliatcs. and present an annual award lor the most unusual name (e.g .. Nott Civil Rights Comrtuttec, Gate CRC. the Arch1bald Cox Alfiliate ol the USCRC etc.). As Mother Chapter. USCRC w1ll sporadically Circulate to its all1hates. maJor Umon Alumni Clubs, and, ol course, the media, its newsletter Veri.tas keeping all informed on current cases. Smce the delense ol student and faculty rights at Union ts everybody's business. Mother Chapter claims no communications monopoly. Afliliates may tssue their own bullettns under their rcspccttve logos; JUSt keep it clean. Last but not lea~t. the slogan. USCRC cmbla1ons its banner \Mother is Watching\ and. whenever JUSIIIted. wtll give I he President the national v1sibiltty he well deserves. Gut Feeling by Kevin Schary I here has been a stckening wave of vandalism and destruction on our campus this year. In JUst the last two weeks alone. we have seen: a student threatened with .bodily harm, a car overturned, a professor's home attacked with rocks, the destructwn of vending machmes, bathroom fixtures ripped apart, phones torn ott walls. and a number ol smashed windows. I lor one, speaking I'm sure lor a majority of people at Union. am sick and tired of this behavior. This is not all being done by any one person or group - but that's the problem - there are a number of destructive students on this campus. This isn't just .. college stuff' - it is serious damage that is threatening the reputation and integrity of our college. Not to mention the tens of thousands of dollars it costs every year (tuition will rise· again this year). These Neanderthal-types in an inebriated state feel they have license to display their macho and physical prowess by breaking and smashing our campus apart, and to threaten those who hold opioions .different to their own. This criminal behavior is when done on campus grounds labeled mischief. It is time to put an.elld to this lawless anti-Union behavior. Security isn't at fault -- they can't prevent vandalism. And they can't apprehend the culprits without support from students. It's up to all students to report vandals and insure they are prosecuted. In one e!lample just recently, a security guard was attempting to throw two toWnies, in this instance., off campus and despite a bunch of students witnessing the fracas, only one student (frequently mocked by marty for being a throat) had the guts to step in and support the officer. It's about time the rest of the student body an this campus took a little pride in Union College. The Conduct Comrntttee has a large responsibility. All we can ask is that they hand down fair sentences. In a couple of aforementioned ancidents, the punishment should be none-other than expulsion (in add1t10n to lines). We can also unly ask that Dean Smith and the rest ot the administration insure that significant detc rrents are handed down lor acts ol wanton destruction and threatening behavior. l'here ts no place for criminal activity by students at an institution of higher learning. Let's hand out fair and adequate

- 1 dents hner, oice\ • and >tbaU the t1 the t'ina! stay 1 in ;:don Task shner from sume enate lSSUe. ation d not lle of ~rtain The ~main m II •enate was onner .ions. )hupe :cause n the egard pecial three extra tigate ockey ls it uses ; his : an lsit vner the :tAC oted this pens men give : or ilnti- been $ at Cliff atity who girl if so the state tting his how iWHI will •nbe lsit 1g to ~fore ,ckey new :1: the these 'was by t<J e are d bY t all tgoll ;ails'' ege'> 11oral the :bove ,ckey the :rsity ient. tg, \l team s this : only rioral r of ';'tfte CONCORDIENSJS, May 25, 1977 ••••• Is Union lost? Dr. Bonner was by no means inactive in this period. He sent memos to Trustees attacking a governance structure in which students and Faculty were given voices. He allowed an article to be written in Sports Illustrated that was riddled with inaccuracies. The community of Schenectady and the people like Neil Golub and Bob Mac Namara were accorded greater consideration by Tom Bonner than members of the cam,pus community. When the trustees came to Union for their April meeting, they found a polariz;ed campus. They formed their own special committee, chaired by Dr. Lee Davenport to study our governance structure and Bonner's conduct. The trustee committee came on campus and spoke with various students, administrators, and faculty. I his past Wednesday, a special meeting of the entire board was called. The special committee's report recommended that Dr. Bonner be fired and an acting President be appointed immediately. rhe committee was split but its conclusions were logical given the access to information that they had from the members of the campus community. I' he other trustees, unfortunately, had their information filtered and interpreted by Tom Bonner, PR man Jack Maranville, and Vice- President of Development Bob Rassmussen. Both the trustees and the alumni, thus were not privy to the knowledge of a college President · encouraging flagrant violations of our Governance 'Process. They are oblivious to the ugly incidents that have arisen recently on this campus, concerning students, faculty and administrators. Thus, the trustees rejected the Davenport Committee report and gave Bonner a one-year extension. They voted to leave NESCAC, which not only accorded us prestige in the academic world but was against the athletic abuses within .an educational institution that we now condone. The Boosters, have won our over our governance structure. Why did the trustees vote as they did? In past, they had a lack of information or were even given misleading information. Many trustees, leaders in corporations chose to affirm the corporate structure and keep ·the top man rather than yield to campus subordinates. One can guess that others feel Boner will bring in money - so who cares about anything else'! What are the ramifications? Now,. we have no restrictions on our a-thletic programs, only the hollow promise ot' Bonner integrity. l'here will be scheduling difficulties, and as every Athletic Director candidate pointed out, to be without an Athletic conference is costly and illogicaL NESCAC is just a minor casualty. Worse is the paralysis of our administration. Debbie Kilgus, Craig Carlson, and Therese Ambrusko are leaving. Presently, we have no Chief Librarian, Personnel Director, Business Director or Comptroller. Provost Enteman, Dean Smith, Dean Brownlee, and Dean Potts all openly disagree with Bonner's actions. Their jobs may be in jeopardy as welL The Chronicle of Higher Education has written of our plight. In academic circles, Union runs the risk of having its reputation damaged. All this seems a large price for lhomas Bonner. He doesn't understand a small college and never did. He came from big universities where students and faculty were minor figures . Bonner sees the market as paramount and will claim ends justify means. It you support that morality, support the man. However, the values of a small liberal arts college like Union must die in the process. Les us hope that students, faculty and other administrators, will try to - persuade the grustees to reconsider and dismiss Thomas Bonner. ;'' L..._.... administration officials that of students. 1, in good . joke issue you will not tolerate the· conscience. cannot tolerate tbe situation any longer. Demand things that have · been infnrmation, for ortfy tlien can happening at this school. Y·et one make a good decision. President Bonner has Editors, Coneordiensis: Kudos all around for what I consider to be one of the best \'joke\' issues of Ccmcordy ever conceived! 1 am, of course, referring to your brilliantly satiric masterpiece of Sf! & /77; gad, what a deit touch! The front page was a veritable Why are they afraid to give us remained isolated and silent()n the truth? What are they these infractions. Sutely, one hiding'! would think, he would rHJt Student body member permit !avoritis.m or lenieacy Robert R. Grusky in the case of the above- Class of '79 menti<:med infractions of college rules. in and out To- the Editor: Bonner IN and NESCAC OUT. IN and OUT, lN and OUT. l think that just ~bout sums up what Bonner and the trustees are doing to the . stude,nts, faculty - and administration of Union (~O:Ilege. Tom Bonner entered Union with the class of '7& and I say we make him an honorary (dishonorable?) member and force him to graduate with us. Greg Maya '78 .;· The administratioJl has also dilly: \Bonner In, NESC.AC bad its share of vi:Q.lations of Out\ made me rock with ethical practice. We no longer unrestrained merriment for a ·have a director of admissions. good ten minutes. l mean, let's It seems that we will not have face facts - why, with the a Provost or a Dean of Investigative Committee's Stu dents (these ar,_,e, rec()mmendations submitted admittedly, rumors). Clearly, and the omimous rumblings of there is so-mething going on in a faculty ~vote of no the upper levels of the contidence .. .' Anyw-ay, it was a administration. lt would be superb bit of whimsy, and i correct. a.s well as politically compliment you on your expedient, for President imaginative rendition of the Bonner to order a full Board of Trustee's \vote.\ investigati.Qn •. Yet he has nut. Barely had I su.pressed my Why'! ls he biding something? last burst of deep-throated The faculty, Bonner~s last chuckles when I espied Debbie bastion of support, are, it Poletto•s savagely sardonic seems, ·also against hi:ru:. citing . masterpiece~ .. Housing his idiotic expansionist policies Controversy Continues.\ as well as iriternat probletlls. Wh6ever came up with the . . . · · .·'\':' .,_,,,,;~:,':: ''·'\··. . idea uf\Vriti:fig a tantasy abOut . ~h6' pt~i~~f of~lS:·~aiiege ... :giVing, .. 'tnc()triing . fteshtnen bas' ti<~ .. , 'Po ... mtrcal': ·~'Se'''t~f ·· · ·pteteteivtfid'''lt&uslli,g over next · · ' Dear Editor! · ~tippott, a~<fl :<wottllf''ur~e rny ., . yea:t's · §6pltomb~s- really hit a '~ ·. :t~~~':::~:~~rt~~:~~n!:;;'~= . , . :}~~!~~~=;:~~~~:;;;~~;:. '\·~=~~=~~'::·:.;;e~~Y;~ ..... ·' · ·~al.Jftffie tn.'tfle~ddictdoliii' 4fid Perhaps' if it is>maife''peneedy' ····· para:iyzed· 'f saidf J~ ,was · ~YQJKf i.fi JuSt f()Ut years~ 1 cl6arto Dt: ·a6amer that ne has · thiif.'fitnti~ ~· · , wo*Id.Jike io speak: .()tif on lost tqdsf if ftot· lt~ .' of 'hfs .. 'Y'et~ tb.f,·two afote:tneritibried wilat 1 believe is 'the··a~:te<;t c:redibnit)\~i!.h. tlliS~lifU~;he ~medi¢ nias't-erpieces paled tn ca\!Be of the demise of Ohi9n .. ·. ·. , .. e ~teps toc~rtetf1he cfQtn,p~tisoil with your COllege. Pn!S.ident · Thomas me tliis c.al~~~; ~ in.· · : , . ··Letters•· ~;>il.$e. Tlie iltsflet~r. Bonner. Jo~h Mtilc!«, •11 erttitled .. te.r:rorlsm~·· concerned He . is a symbol of a lack of · · · student l\lttassment, gentle lead~;rshjp, an,d a man whose P.s. Rumors that east pokt's at our zany President, as· goals are in ditect contrast mem-bers of l~Thursday Nigltt wen· as a sly series of with the trend of liberal arts Dead'\ have been fhreateried · innuendos about our athletics learning both in the nation and with laWStlits by 111ttttbers of program. Union College is so at this institution under its the administration are hopelessly intellectual and former President, Or. Harold completely untrue. Those part$· academically stimulating; all Martin. of the script, that I helped the students here are so In the past few weeks there write, which were slanderous,. together and pte-ptofes$ionatry have been several threats made have been altered slightly, but mature. Hey, c~tnon now: if on fellow students (and friends the show will be petfortned some big yak ol a fellow of mine) by a group of other almost completely as written. physically harassed me, you students: Professor K.ershner~s ln any event, we know that the can bet that our Dean of house·· has been vandalized, administration is capable of Students would yank that teportedly by the sante group laushing at itself, isn't it? 8 Page3 Opinion: Mother\'s Watching by Robert Sharlet, Convener, Union Street Civil Rights Committee Bonner is certainly not Brezhnev and I am surely not Sakharov, but the time has come to form the Union Street Civil Rights Committee in response to the Doctrine of Presidential Infallibility announced by a majority of the Trustees last week. If justice cannot I be obtained within this jurisdiction, then one must look beyond it to the good offices of external groups, organizations and even certain individuals committed to a distinction between Right and Wrong. The Union Street Civil Rights Committee (USCRC) is founded on the simple premise that Thomas N. Bonner is President of the college for another year and thus morally and legally responsible for whatever occurs within his writ. Therefore, the USCRC is dedicated to the defense of any student or faculty member who suffers a deprivation of his/ her rights as a consequence of action or inaction by The President. Given the past lew months, business should be brisk. The USCRC will act on a case by case basis, gauging its response to a given situation with the appropriate action. For instance, appeals for intervention will be addressed to local, state, and federal agencies charged with regulatory authority over educational institutions, but UN sanctions will not be invoked. Complaints will be filed with civil rights agencies at every level of government, but no action under the Helsinki Accords is anticipated. Copies of appeals and complaints will be duly sent to local, state-wide, and specialized educational media, but resort to the Washington Post is not under consideration at this time. As a moderate organization, USCRC will resist globalization of college issues. Detente can bear no further burdens. Whenever warranted, the USCRC will support civil suits to redress wrongs. Whenever necessary, USCRC will press criminal charges, but plea bargaining will be encouraged and, under certain circumstances, pardon will be recommended. Assistance will be sought from private groups such as the ACLU and NAACP, the Anti-Defamation League, and the American Association of University Professors; but the need for Amnesty international is not foreseen in the immediate future. Again, all USCRC actions will be diligently publicized, but every attempt will be made to minimize adverse publicity lor the college in the Far West, the Deep South, and the B1g Sky Country. In cases ol the most egregious violations of student and !acuity rights, USCRC will leave no stone unturned. A letter, press released, to the most prestigious of Union graduates, James Earl Carter ot Washington, O.C., will not be ruled out. However, no current plam. are underway which might interrupt the Energy Crisis, Welfare Relorm, or the SAL I lalks. USCRC does not view the National Interest lightly. 1-inally, USCRC will !rom time to time be conducting membership drives and informational campaigns. Membership dnves arc planned tor Homecommg, Parents' Weekend and, tentatively, lor the 1977 Commencement Exercises. USCRC will issue one-person or group charters tor new affiliates, and present an annual award lor the most unusual name (e.g., ;'-<ott Civil Rights Committee, uate CRC the Archibald Cox Attlliate of the USCRC. etc.). As Mother Chapter. lJSCRC will sporadically circulate to its allihatcs, maJor Union Alumni Clubs, and, of course, the media, its newsletter Veri.tas keeping all mformed on current cases. Smce the defense ot student and faculty rights at Union is everybody's business, Mother Chapter claims no communications monopoly. Altiliates may Issue their own bulletms under their respective logos; JUst keep it clean. Last but not least. the slogan. USCRC emblazons its banner \Mother Is Watching·· and. whenever JUS til ied, will give rhe f>resident the national visibility he well deserves. Gut Feeling by Kevin Schary I here has been a sickening wave ol vandahsm and destruction on our campus th1s year. In JUSt the last two weeks alone, we have seen: a student threatened with bodily harm, a car overturned, a professor's home attacked with rocks, the destructiOn of vending machines, bathroom fixtures ripped apart, phones torn oil walls. and a number ol smashed windows. I tor one, speaking I'm sure lor a majority ot people at Union, am sick and tired of this behavior. This is not all being done by any one person or group --- but that's the problem - there are a number of destructive students on this campus. This isn't just \college stuff' -- it is serious damage that is threatening the reputation and integrity of our college. Not to mention the tens of thousands of dollars it costs every year (tuition will rise again this year). These Neanderthal-types in an inebriated state feel they have license to display their macho and physical prowess by breaking and smashing our campus apart, and to threaten those who hold opinions different to their own. This criminal behavior is when done on campus grounds labeled mischief. It is time to put an end to this lawless anti-Union behavior. Security isn't at tault - they can't prevent vandalism. And they can't apprehend the culprits without support from students. It's up to all students to report vandals and insure they are prosecuted. In one example just recently, a security guard was attempting to throw two townies, in this instance, off campus - and despite a bunch of students witnessing the fracas. only one student (frequently mocked by many tor being a throat) had the guts to step in and support the officer. It's about time the rest of the student body on this campus took a little pride in Union College. !\he Conduct Committee has a large responsibility. All we can ask 1s that they hand down fa1r sentences. In a couple of aforementioned mc1dents, the punishment should be none-other than expulsion (in addl11on to lines). We can also only ask that Dean Smith and the rest ot the admimstratmn msure that significant deterrents arc handed down tor acts ol wanton destruction and threatening behaviOr. I here ts no place lor crimmal activity by students at an institution ol higher learnmg. Let's hand out fa1r and adequate

,l CONCORDIENS/S; May 25, 1977 Committee Applications Committee on Committees member, Mitch Mid/in by JANET CHAPMAN Student apathy cauld be a problem of the past as is indicated by the Committee on Committee's current intervi~w schedule. Four hundred and fifty applications have been reviewed for the 27 schoal committees, which offer approximately 100 positions. last year, only 350 students applied. ·rhe Committee on Committees is composed of five members. E:ac h member is a e lass representative, except for one who is ·picked from the applicant pool and the chairman who is the school's vice president. The members are: Mitch Midlin, senior representative; Jody Lavien, junior representative; Bill Jenkins, sophomore representative; John Tydings and Chairman Mike Uanz. The Committee's spring selection process is rather complex and time· consuming. Each·· member reads every application and together they vote on the ones presenting the best qualifications. lf two out of the. five members agree, the applicant's l.D. number is transferred te their interview list, an objective process. As Mike Ganz said, \Weare as unbiased as possible.\ There are some committees, however, which are so popular that more severe cut- offs are made before the interview stage. In such cases, four out of the five members must rc::ach an agreement. Usual~y, the average number of students interviewed per committee is 1.1~ whereas the general range of openings is between two and five. ·The Committee's objective is to interview as many people as possible for the available positions. Arts Dept. at _Standstill The number of applicants per committee varies from 1 to 50, depending upon the committee's past degree of student participation. Consider the S uppartive Services Committe.e; though it has two openings, only one student applied, whereas 50 applied for the Social Committee which has 25 openings. There are two types of committees, one being the all-college senate committees; 85% of these committees have faculty mem- bers. The three most popular are the Admissions Committee, Presidential Advisory Board and the Educational Policy Committee. Then there are the student committees such as the by CINDY VANINA The developmen( and expansion of the arts department at Union is again at a standstill. There has been absolutely no action taken since the release of the arts consultant report. As a result, the department's faculty feel· as though they are working within a vac\lUm and they are not optimistic about the future. In an interview with Concordy, Hugh Allen Wilson, current chairman of the nne arts department; expressed the need for the ••administration, including trustees, to act as a unit to determine the proper role of the · tine arts at a liberal arts school.\ He said it was useless to continue planning programs for the future if tbere is to be no support from the administration. The department cannot assume an active, enriching role in the liberal · arts education unless they are allowed to do so by the administration. To quote Prof. Wilson, \It would be better to get rid of the Arts dep,artment al- together,\ than to remain in this current state of purgatory. The present faculty's schedule is sadly overloaded which leads to a decrease in possible courses offered to the student body. As the classes which ca:n be offered become overcrowded, student enrollment drops. One encouraging fact is that an art historian is being hired for next year. This person would teach Art History ··for the first year and take over as the chairperson of the Arts department while P'roL H.A. Wilson would remai~ in a teachinJ~; capacity. With added faculty the' department could then offer additional areas of study that · would open up a new spectrum of opportunities to students and hopefully also attract those students considering enrolling at Union. The courses also need to. integrate with the applied sciences and humanities to lend a ne.w sense of creativity to these a~eas. At the present time there ts an arts major at Union. The students graduate with a Bachelor of Arts degree with emphasis in Art or Music or Drama. But there are currently very few existing majors especially in the Drama department. These 5tudents would benefit tremendolsly b~ studying. in an atmosphere of creativity attained through the presence of talented fellow students and· Professors. Here is where the great need for recruitment and increased faculty plays such a major role. The study of the arts department was fine as far as it went. Now. its implementation must be carried out to achieve the well rounded liberal education ··union\ means. Library Plata - Sight of Weststock 77 p_opular Social Committee or Film Committee. Two new committees on the Committee on Committees' list are the Commencement and the Traffic and Pet Court Committees; in past years the faculty selectecl the ~tudent representatives. If the students applying for a. specific committee lack sufficient qualifi- catians, the selection committee would go to other committees' applicants, but Mike Uanz doesn't foresee that happening this year. The next ·stage after the selection process is the interview where all five members of the Committee on Committees sit in; their tina! decision must be unanimous. The Committee has a year round job. In September they place freshmen on various committees except for the majo.r ones where the Committee feels they'd be lost. Another job is to study the school clubs' constitu- tions and decide whether to approve them with funding. The final decision lays within ihe power of the Student Forum. During the year, each member of the Committee also watches an allocated number of committees, making sure. each committee's job is accomplished. The Committee on Committees will be telling the chosen applicants · of their committee assignment as ·each individual 'decision is completed. According to Mike Uanz, the selection process will hopefully be completed by Friday, May 27th. lhere are several basic adjustments which desperately need to be made. Prof. Wilson sees the recruitment of students talented in the Arts and interested in pur.iuing a Fine Arts major w be of the utmost importance. Again at this time there is very little being done by the admissions office to recruit these types of students. To correct this, the adllJinistration would need to give the directive to the admissions office. Through more publicizing and emphasizing of the diversified arts major which • encompasses visual arts, music and drama at Union, the college could better attract the type of student interested in a Fine Arts major. The great success attained by Union's graduated Arts majors should also be made known to a greater extent. An excellent Arts ctepartment would contribute to the reputation of Union substantiated by the extstmg programs in other fields. W eststock Here this Weekend Of equal importance is the need . for more faculty. Just to .maintain . the present programs two more faculty members are needed in the drama department as well as an art hist<Jrian, to say nothing of the technical assistants reauired. 2:00-5:00 5:00-6:30 6:45-7:15 7:15-7:45 8:00-8:30 8:45-10:00 W:00-1:00 I: 15·1 :45 2:00-2:30 2:45-3: l.S 3:30-4:00 4:15-4:45 5:00-5:30 5:45-6:15 CONCORDIENSIS would , 6:30-7:00 like to extend an apology to \ Or. Frank Millllo for 7:15-7:45 • L~~~-iss_pe_IUn_g.,_hi_s _\_ana--e-m_· _lu_t~~.~, 1 1 1. ·[. B:00-8:JO week'\s issue. _ WESTSTOCK PROGRAM Bar-B-Cue and games Jazz Ensemble . Bobbi Schneider & Robin Leith-folk Stan Geberer & Gary Goldenberg-folk Julie Greifer & Joe Miralles-folk Chet ·Arthur & the Flaming Aces-50's Woodstock Les Goldstein & John Knudson Simon & Garfunkel revisited Bill Brinnier-electric · Gary Glauber-electric Da.ve Mendohlson-electric ·. Jeff Morganstern & :Paul Beliveau-electric Sally Eckhoff-surprise! Paul Burns-<:ountry folk Dave Mendohlson & Adam Berg-electric Ruth Rappaport & friends-bluegrass Mike Stockman, Drew Lianopolous, Fran· Messina &. Debbie Poletto-popular This Saturday it will begin. It will end Sunday morning after a Bar-B-Cue, 12 hours of student entertainment, the screening of the film .. Woodstock,\ and a large batch of donuts and tequila sunrises served shortly after. dawn. We expect hundreds of Union's finest to straggle back to their rooms about nine o'clock Sunday morning. With them, they will take back some af the finest memories in their Union cateers. Weststock promises to be the highlight of this year at Union or any year. Seldom have so many people cooperated to give the campus an event on the grand scale of Weststock. Special · thanks go to Dean Smith, Suzanne Dowling, the . Film Committee, the Social Committee, Angelo Mazzone, all• the floors and fraternities that donated kegs, all the students in West who have volunteered to 1 ~ work at ungodly hours~ and most 1 of all, the perfortners. There are close to ftfty performers in eighteen acts who will be displaying their bountiful talents under the stars. We hope you will stay until the dawn. Don't let the prospect of finals keep you away, sit in Library Plaza 1 munch, be mellow, and listen to Union's best talent. Bring. a sweater, a sleeping bag, or a warm friend to endure the chill of the morning's wee hours. We expect all Union wounds to temporarily heal in Weststock's magical morning mist. In response to events that • occurred at the band party between Fox: and Davidson last Friday, extra security will be provided throughout Weststock. In order to get beer, you must have a Union I.D. Please. W eststock can be something special, don't cause disturbances or damage schopl property. Extra security will help, but to make Weststock the special event that it is, We'll need help. ·Make this· a Union night to ·remember. Weststock, from dusk till dawn. As I' Unian l the run J:unior between Steve ( elect eel lhursd;: persons Junior Studenl Colleg!! 1 ha~ present that a shoul(J, only w commu Contra is not few h( only { tell ow cross-~ Durin{l discuss Forum asking comme feel on change lnstc: exactl~ would some bother' The The 01 was la should point 1 decisi<: suppo: last ~ meetir could An( partict the hi that c: propo with school like \. will p suppo this necess wron~ go OJ bee au NeJo differc will b1 and 1 . Ma Colle1 majot first I the fi East, Ceni Dicki Jerse• . , Rt comp \Reg1 catio1 pape1 Rog( Gala1 , of elc - Ur

e e y 1 g a CONf;OR}:'JJ£NSIS. Mav 25. 1977 Junior Rep. Run·off Grill As l'm sure most stud~nts ~t Unien Know, there was a tie in the run•oUs for the posi~ion of .h,mior Class Representative, between Bill Wade, and myself, Steve Urill. lhe person who is electeQ. ·to this position Qli rhursday will be one of the persons wbo will represent the Junior Class. He sits on the informed. .of .facts. cortcet:ning these issues, in order to allow my own feelings to be changed. This year there has been a lack of communication between administrators, which will probably carry over to neKt year .. · T her H ore , st u de n t communication is even more important. Please vote in the election for Jr. Rep en Thursday. (Due to space limitations, I could not say all that l wanted te. Please feel free to contact me at 370'-6732, 363 Fox. · Wade My name is Bill Wade and I am running again for junior class 'rep,resentative. The first runoff ended in a tie.l am happy, fot it gives Steve and me a chance to present our views. It would . have made student · government a needed. I would like to see more active recrmtmg by .admissions to diversify the Union applicant pool. Other proposals at'e improved dormitodes, continued development of the college student center,. a revision of the grading system to a plus•minus system, and more types of vending machines ln the dorms. Most iniportantly, I offer a more responsive representation of students. At the moment, among some members of the administration, faculty, and students, there is a philosophy that students do not know what is best for t:hem. Many students do know, but VIe are disillusioned by the public display of t'he struggles among various egos this past year, Union is or should be for the studeats, and all decisions should be made with the students in mind . PageS strident F(}rum. aud . the All College Senate. 1 have opinions on aU ·of the present issues. However, .1 feel that a Student Representative shoulQ., in fact, represent. The only way to do this is through communication with the students. Cpntrary to what many feel, t}lis is not impossible. By spending a few hours each week · with the only purpose being talking to fellow Juniors, a fairly large cross-section can be sampled. During these meetings I will discuss what went on at previous f'orum and Senate_ meetings. asking for opmtons and comments. In this way, the way 1 feel on the issues can, and wlU be changed. mockery that it is so.netimes accnsed of being if one of us had 'been elected. without. otu views being known. I . would hope that housing listens. to the student input to· this year's defeated proposat. There should not be any i!:H freshmen dorms, ana men should be afforded equal cooking facilities. New Pres. Interviewed · Instead ot neatly writing down exactly how 1 feel on each iss\ue I would just like to comment on some of the \ things that have bothered me. . The class of 19go was burned. The only argument that they had was lack ot prior notice. But this should have been enough! At this point there seems no way that the decision can be postponed. It was supposed to be discussed at the last Senate meeting, but the meeting was adjourned before it could be brought up. Another · thing that 1 am particularly concerned about is the high degree of consumerism that exists. It seems that every proposal at this school is made with the intent of selling the school and incluQ.es something like \ ... we think the (program) l. will promote increased financial support of the College,\ Although this support is · extremely necessary,. we might be led in the wrong direction. · lf Hockey is to go Division I, let the reason be because the team belongs there. Next year's issues will be different from this year's. 1 feel1t will be my responsibility to go out and listen to students who ate Union's library should have security system. Funds would then be able to go for new, updated books and publications rather than the replacement of stolen books and magazines. In Academics, better inter- departmental communication better facilities and a review of the tenure process is needed. Post...tenure evaluations should be considered seriously. A new arts facility is necessary before the. arts can attain its place as a real department. Funding for all-campus activities .shouia be extended to all campus groups whether they be fraternities, sororities, or dorms. A Panhellenic representative should be on the Fourm and. the Senate. Athletics is pretty much settled. I applaud the decision to lc;:ave NESCAC for many Union teams have been restricted in post- season play. I agree witll the Division 11 decision, and I do not see it conflicting. with an eventual Division 1 hockey team. Better facilities for all athletics are Rogers Receives Award Mark Rogers, a senior Union College l:llectrical engineering major fFont Schenectady! won first place for a research paper in the field of physics at tlie recent Eastern Colleges Scien'ce Conference at Fairleigh Dickinson University in New Jersey. · · Rogers, 25, won the competition for his paper, \Regenerative feedback Amplifi- cation in the Far lnftatedi'' The paper stemmed from reseatch Rogers did with Thomas Galantowicz, asS'ociate professor · of el~cttical engineering. - Union Won a bidding competition with -five . other colleges to be selected as the site for next year's Eastern C~lleges Science Conference. The meeting will mark the 30th anniversary of the Conference. U ilion hosted the second E.C.S. Conference in 1948. Two other Union students cleHvered pa,pers at the conference: ~!' Harvey Friedman,. a senior biological science ·major 1\rom Baltitnore, Md., delivered a paper in zoology CQrilpetition, '\Growth and Reproductive Development of the Prematurely Delivered Rat,;' John S. Facci, senior chemistry major frorn Schenectady; gave a paper in the chemistry competition, \The Role of franck-Condoll Factors in Intersystem Crossing (S1 -T:z ) in 9· and :l.;Substituted Anthracene Derivatives.\ 'by DA YID SCHMERTZ problem of student involvement Most newly elected Presidents in government, and in preventing have preconceived ebjectives and freshmen from being alienated proposals for reform. Since and turned off. Working with student elections were held last · or:ientation directors, Ganz., will week, Concordiensis interviewed . seek to have the .Porum present oo Mike Ganz oli the ·Forum's the incoming freshmen a objectives and proposals for the collection of material relating to coming year. the governance structure, and In one of his first steps, Ganz provide an open seminar on will emphasize tbe· importance of Student Government where recruiting each year's freshmen freshmen may sign up for into tbe governance structure at committee work. \It is important Union. There b.as been to get to the freshmen as soon as considerable focus recently 011 tile possible,\ Ganz stated, \tC? avoid Vondalism on Rise In the midst of what could have been a turning point in the s<>cial conditions of Union College, there erupted what many ltave called the most deplorable acti:ons witnessed on the Co!lege grounds in quite,. :some time. The site of this \disaster\ was the party Saturday night between Fox House and Oavidson sponsored by. Sigma Delta Tau, Zeta Beta Tau and Phi Sigma Kappa. According to Director of Campus Police Clifford W()od, ••The party was · pretty orderly overall with the students behaving themselv~ and the Fraternities doing a good job of policing the party as they have throughout the year.\ As the party broke up, things began to happen; like many other events, especially open parties a large number of off campus (many unwanted) visitors , were present. Tempers grew shorter with the diminishing supply of beer and several fights ensued. rwoc people were rushed away in ambulances including. one local tee1tager described as being the bigg.est hood and troublemaker in Schenectady~ in the aftermath that followed, uncalled for venting of frustrations were levied up()li l\'ox House. Among many other items damaged there were two shower curtains and rods destroyed., metal wall partitions ripped out, door vents smashed, pay .phones ripped. clear off the walls, panes of glass broken, a centrex p.hone receiver smashed and at least two vending machines severely damaged. ~n addition to the actions taken by the college concerning school property damaged, the vandals are open to prosecuti()n by both the vending machine company and the phone company, If the damages incurred were in excess of $250 these vandals could be charged with a felony. The s~::curitv otrice has six suspects at this time who, if found guilty, will be brought up before the student conduct committee. as well as the Dean of Students for further action, It is not yet clear as to what these penalties might be. The campus seems to have 1 receded into a rather hostile, violent tone during recent months no doubt aided by hot tempers concerning administrative problems. These hostilities have Jed to fights, verbal abuses and recently the vandalism of a tac;ulty member's house du_ring wbich $700 of private property was destroyed. Accordingly, this weekend's • open party, Weststock, was in jeopardy of being cancelled, although it was not. There is deep concern regarding security at this event and sincere hope that all students will help in keeping this party orderly. Weststock runs from Saturday afternoon through Sunday morning, beginning with a barbeque and running all night with musicians, the movie Woodstock and other forms of entertainment. These two parties .' were designed to try to pick up campus life on an experimental basis. If the type of behavior that prevailed following the party this past weekend continues, there is a strong possibility that events such as these will not be held again, as ne group will be willing to take the responsibility. Application forms for Saxton Porter ar1d Speir Sthoiarship~ · are available .at the Provost's Office, Room 9 Administration Building: These scholarships are awarded to graduates of Union . College who plan to attend Albany Law School.. Applications are . due by July · JS, 1977. · a situation where new students misconceive the role of student government.\ Another of Ganz's major objectives will be to put a voting student on the Tenure Committee. The issue of student say in tenure deliberations gained much notoriety last year. Ganz argued that students have dealt responsibly with confidential information before on the I EF and Admissions Committee and there was little reason why students could not again deal with confidential material on the Tenure Committee. The issue of tenure did not arise last year because, as Ganz stated, no popular professors were denied tenure. However, Ganz argued that the issue was still an important one to the student body and should be pursued. When asked how he will increase communications between student representatives and faulty members Ganz stated that it will be the job of all f'orum members, not j4st the job of the President and Vice President, to solicit faculty opinion and input on campus issues. Ganz also stated that it was the obligation of the faculty as well to respect the input and opinions of the student representatives. Critics of the present student government also argue that the forum has not been visible to the student body. As of next year, Ganz stated, the Forum will begin a weekly column in Concordiensis and broadcast Forum minutes on WRUC. The Placement Office has learned of the following job opportunities with Mobil Oil Corporation. If interested in further details, please come by our office. I . Analytical Chemi~t 2. Electrical Engineer 3. Marketing Representative- Commercial (Technical Sales} 4. Oil Field Production Engineer 5. Pipe Engineel'

CONCORDIENSIS, May 25, 1917 Interview With _Del Fuego Who is that man behind the mask? After a crushing l!efeat at the polls last week, Coneordy decided to interv.iew the \alternative\ candidate. Manuel Del Fuego, the UCLA candi~ate for president, met this Concordy .reporter in .a dark cellar bar somewhere in downtown Troy. Clad in mirrored glasses and his UCLA sweat shirt, he downed countless beers spilling hi's story. This five foot rebel from Schenectady spoke with the ''* awesomeness .of a man twice his size. Concordy: Do you have any comments about. your defeat in the pa&t Student Government elections'! Manuel: As in a true democracy, the people were presented with a variety of viewpoints. The people considered the candidates and made their choice. The people have spoken... · The BASTARDS!!!! Concordy: What can you attribute your defeat to'! Manuel: The ~;:lection was fixed ... fraud at the polls!!! Concordy: I know the name of the organization is the Union C()llege Liberation Army, but referred to as UCLA. Has the use of this acronym caused any problems? Manu¢1: Well, Rl'! a matter of fact. it ha$ caused some problems. We were getting l~tters fn>m· people whO wartted to apply to film school, which I can't figure out since we den't ba:Ve one. At a,ny rate, it's caused a lot less problems than out former name .. Concordy: Which was'l Manuel;· Federation of l)nion College Kibitzers. Cont:ordy: How big is your m~mbership~! Manuel: There are two of us now, but the silent majority, to quote a comrad's euphemism, will soon stand and be counted. Concordy: How do you propose to increase yoQr membership? Manuel: We are applying for Student Tax money neX:t year. The plan is to ruri bake sales, featuring our infamous bomb· bombs, a Tom Bonner smile alike contest and an anarchy halt Concordy: What are the t:uture plans of the UCLA'! Manuel: At preseat it's. organiZing the fi:rst annual Student Internships Ill N.Y. State Legislature • by TAR YN MERZ For those of you who would like to expand your college education outside the walls of Union, but don't feel up to ten weeks in a foreign .country, an Internship in the. New York State Legislature may be just what you are looking for. \The State Legislature in Action\ is offered Winter and Spring Terms by the Political Science Department and is open to sophomores, juniors and seniors in any major. For those political science majors who are interested in interning, there is a more concentrated version of the Program entitled .. Legislative Observers.\ course credit. .For the Comp Ed, which is listed as a two~term project, these include a major Written work and an oral presentation based on a topic of the student's choosing. For the Poli. Sci. course. more work has · been required, as two grades are given as. opposed to one for the Comp Ed. This however, will change under the newly devised Lib.eral Learning ·.Program. ACcording to Professor Underwood, the Comp Ed will become two courses which satisfy the requirements of category .. b,\ H u man Be ha vi or a n d Institutions. able to get a job after graduation. Personal experiences with the Program are generally very good. One participant in this year's Comp Ed program felt it w;ts an excellent opportunity to put his practical skills to use in a real~life situation. A junior Political Science major believed thl!.t experiences varied, depending on what kind of oflice one worked in. Some legislators are willing to ' give an intern more responsibility than others. An example of someone who had real input is a student with a background in an area that ltis Assemblyperson was anxious to have researched. This intern is still going down to the Capitol whenever he can in o1:der to watch the progress of a bill which he had a part in formulating. Of course, not everyone is so fortunate, and even in the best of oftices there are moments, or even hours of busy work. The common consensus however, is that the quality of the experience is a function of how much effort the student decides to invest in the Program. Some additional factors to be . considered if you are thinking of becoming an intern next win,ter' is that transportation consists solely_ of carpools formed by the students. There are mixed feelings about this tnethod of getting to and from Albany (it's about a 45 minute ride)~ Also to be taken into account is the need to t'ind courses that can be worked around your hours at :the CapitoL The most common solutions inclUde 8:30~s, afternoon classes two days a week, and evening courses, Despite these minor factors, a State Internship is a unique opportunity eYecyone ·at Union might consider taking advantage of sometime durin,g their college career. _Government coup, to be held as s()on as the officers prove themselves incompetent. That should be sometime Friday afternoon. Our long range· plans include coercing the . Physics De.partment into ma:k,ing Union College a major nuclear power, t:raining.students in the use of the hockey stick .as an otlensive weapon and fre~ing the Lenox Road 250. Co._¢ordy: Wil'ile, you broached the subject, what's your opinion on the HQckey prngr;1m here at Union'! Manu~l: .. W ~ are totaHy in. favor of it, V iol~nce,. c.te&trllctian,. half- wittedness represents our position exactly. The total anarchy created by it is providing us. with the opportunity t~r an anar<;:hist takeover. lf it. happens,· every student will have to h:arn the Canadian National Antbetn and Concordy will print the NH'L scores each week. We are currently planning a bi.:lingua1 ·edition of the Monthly Rag for our friends across the border. Concordy.: Uiv~n the present state Of the coll~~e. what's your opinion of the Tom Bonner administration? Manuel: Unlike the majority opinion, President Bonner is eminently qualified to run the College under .the guidelines ot the UCLA. He 1s a ,personification ot our beliefs; incompetency, anarchy, ass- backwardness and totally out of touch with the populace. Concordy: H(}V/ about the rest of his administration'! Manuel• Smith, that· 6 foot 5 giant who calls a professor a \cocksucker\ .in public, has a great protessionat attituqe. Concordy: What's your opinion of (:oncordy? Manuel: While of no comparison to our Rag, I wnul<l like to see \more pictufes. Wh.en. we overthrow the- stati of Concordy, there will be some new weekly columns~ Off-campus· Housing by Suzanne Dowling, and How to Talk Dirty and Influence People by Dean Smith. Concordy: Thank you, anything else you want to add'! Manuel: .... ()ff you PIGSi!!!!! The responsibilities of an Internship in both the Comp Ed and Political Science courses involves working 10-15 hours a week in the office of either an Assemblyman ot a Senator. As Professor Underwood~ the head of - .the Program along with Protessor Tidmarch explains, \The student exchanges his labors to get a chance to see what is going on.\ Students ate placed in offices based on various factors, some .of which are experiences of previous participants, family connections and individual preferences. A generally unknown aspect of the Program is that a student is not restricted to working only for a legislator. Other possible placements are with lobbyists, committee stail members, or journalists assigned to the Capital. Professor Underwood related an interesting story of an Engineering major, who as a direct result of his work on a pure . waters program as an intern, was Blood Drive Successful In addition to the actual work experience, there are academic . requirements in order to receive Union College hosted the Red Cross Blood Drive ()1'1. Tuesday; May 17 and Wednesday, May 18. Jonas Named \Fellow\ Manfred Jonas, professor and chairman of the history department at Union College, has been de~ignated a Charles Warren Fellow by the Charles Warren Center tor Studies in American History at Harvard University. · On the fellowship, Dr. Jonas will spend the next academic year in residence at the Warren Center at work on a study of the relations between the U.S. and Germany from the time of German 11nification in the 1860's to the forttJ.atioll of the Federal Republic of Germany and the end of the Allied occupation in 1954. The book resulting from his research, said Dr. Jonas, will not be simply a \diplomatic history.\ Rather, he said, it will be an analysis which considers the .. aims and capabilities of both countries during the various stages of their development.\ \lt will deal with the internal forces which affected their external relations. as well as with their respective attitudes toward each other and toward the world in .general,'' said Dt. Jonas. \By concentrating on the inter~ relationship between the two countries ·over time, it should be possible to work toward a definition of 'foreign relations' which, while based on specific actions and events, also takes into consideration non-rational and attitudinal factors which at times are even more important,\ Dr. Jonas explained. Established in 1965, the Charles Warren Center annually brings to Harvard ten or 12 sclldlars from the U.S. and abroad for the purpose .of furthering research and analysis in American history. Dr. Jonas is the second Union faculty member to have been selected as a Charles Warren Fellow in four years; the first was Dt. Robert V. Wells, associate professor of history, in 1974. A specialist in twentieth . eentury American bi$toey ana ~n diplomatic history, Dr. Jonas ts the author of \Isolationism in America, 1935-41,\ \American Foreign Relations in the 20th Century,\ and of numerous articles in journals and essay collections. ''Roosevelt· and Churchill: Their Secret Wartime Correspondence,\ of which he was co-editor; was a History Book Club Selection and a Book~ of-the-Month Alternate in 1975. Among Dr. Jonas' recent publications are ''The Major Powers and the U.S.: The Case of Germarty,\ which appeared in ''Perspectives in American Diplomacy,\ and .. The. Fascist Threat\ which, co,..autht)red by Nancy Green Jonas, appeared in Henry Steel Commaget's •• An American Destiny.\ Dr. Jonas, who earned his Ph.D at Harvard, has been a member of the Union faculty .since 1963 and bas been chairman .of the history department since 1970. Ovet- 265 Union students, faculty and staff showed up. 241 pints of blood were collected. Coordinated by Curt BtoWfi and . Tom D'Antonio, Theta Delta Chi awarded a keg of beer to the fraternity or noor with the highe&t donor percentage. Webster Basement won the keg with a turnout of 100 percent. Delta Phi and Theta Delta Chi also had high turnouts. Last Week's Blood Drive completes Union's third year ·of participation. The Drive was originally broUght to Union via Bill Ha~;kins and Alice Swanson · ftorn the Red Cross. The Red Cross returns to Union once a term. This year the .. college donated 105 _pints of blood. lbis is an improvement over last year\& total of606 pints. Although in<>re pints of blood were donated tllis year,. less than lO% of the college community donates blood. The Red Cross can .always ex.pand facilities to accommodate an increased percentage. Over H 50 pints .of blood are used by the Red Cross per week in 31 area hospitals. O;mcordy · :wishes to thank all those who c<lntributed blood to the Red Cross. Students giving blood \¥¥- .. .. il • it .. ~ il .. .. • itt ••• -tc -+c • ** II Wid resoun Presid4 our ea to cat' ·be ins year. ~ ina« 1977 1 Bonn \Gove Union not m The ( who anony It' 1 Bonm preser Unio11 which mistal of de• gover uncer divisi' prodt confu makil \As r meet gover me invol· the r the Son:re lJ4 cam Co he Fine Gral Soli• Wall Vick Aud Stev peot Unic reas• Schc be i: peoJ Uni1 . the) mm this to Col cam inse spo kn< rea! . see1 WOJ anc one Un COl

Concept '80 Now 0 in Full Gear KO~O STlM recent renovations and developments of tlte en:vir~nment of tlte ot' Union College ate aU of the \Concept 80'' plan aims toward the beautifi.., •·a••v\ of our q_am.pus. This plan, is being( 'funded by a gift .... __ .,,,c~ .. r~ by th.e Frank N. Bailey is headed by Professor IIIW-.Illlillll .. Huntley and the Campus Committee. tb.e Associates Plann1ng been handling the · ons. of the Campus Plan.ning Committee t9 enhance the beauty of the college campu$ is the vaf!~ety of \greenery\ that has been planted in the area that surrounds A¢hilles Rink. 'f.he ••greenery\ will help create a more attractive envirQnment around the Rill'k wilich is now a q~.Jite desola~e area. These ptans, for the development of the physical environment ol the campus all relate to the \Concept HO\ idea which is to create a r•ew and more attractive look for the campus of Union College. in the eighties. CONCORDIENSIS. May 15, 1977 matl;t:fllls~••w..-wllitii&iffl~%MW.*'~~M\··'*\'·~,,, Skel/ar reconstruction site. , Among the improvements that · ve been taking place, the t'acade the Skeilar. and Security entrances h:as been the first per,~itting · us OllGe enter the Skellar through the front nttan(le. The current '\n. site is the pathway Old Gym Hall behind South A driveway wilich will lly surround Old (Jy.m Hall Davis Proves Worth of Education being constr\lcted and. the lot will be made larg!.lr to more parking space for itors. Another planned lconstruc:tio1n. is the crea;tion of an . cou.rt which will lttnactltVellV welcom~ visitors and ~to!me,ctl1{e. students wh~n they . ~hrougll the main gate. The P.lan · for the future court is to lay out w!tere there are none,. up a few attractive lamp sts ari<l to plant more rubbery. Another example or tbe efforts by JAN CARLSON A Union College graduate ts helping to prove the worth of his higher education. Raphael Davis, who attained a B.S. in Biology tro111 Union College last term, was inspired by Dr. Theodore Bashore's Psychology 10 course . Bashore sp.urred Raphael's interest in the area of psychology specifically dealing with metn.ory processes and neuro-mechanisms involving memory. ln .JCesponse to his growing .interest in tile subject matter, DaNis corroborated with Bashore· to design .a ·series of tests in an attempt to study this \incredibly complex field.\ Prior to these actions, however, a great deal of research on Raphael's part was necessary. Extensive studies in this area have been carried out, and it becam~ apparent that a new system should be constructed which incorporated the. positive aspects of th~se previous experiments. Most of . Davis' b.ac kg round came from investigative studies dealing with shurt-term memory processes using a series of slide tlashes with characters on tilem. The subject saw a series of letters and, after a varying time interval, was Faculty and ,.., -~ rustees the recommendations -.ua1uu........ L.>avenport not voting. NCOR.DY also learned that trustee Oti the committee had •\udu~~~;u · hi~ vote to reject tlu:: Two days President. One administrative source told· CONCORDY that Ur. Bonner is looking for a new JOb in government. Witil the large number of vacancies in the administration, and student-faculty hostility towards President Bonner, Union faces its most serious crisis in years. The report by Neal Allen's committee on improprieties specifically .relating to the hockey program is due June 3rd. in the meanwhile, it is known that CQach Ned Harkness has been in contact with Princeton. One tiling is tor certain: the Union that students will return to in the fall may he a different college facing Vl!ry severe divisions over ethics and education. The saga ·that began in protest over our hockey program is · not yet over. presented with a second slide. He/she was then required to determine whether the first and second sets had the same letters in identical or differing .sequence. Davis analyzed these studies a!ld realized that the test also examined the degree to which a person was able to form a mental image as well as how well the per~on retained the image. ln order to alleviate tilis problem, Davis tests used a simple circular nash of light. The subject was required to distinguish between the duration times of the two flashes and record whether the two flashes were of the same or different duration. Such a study decreased t~e degree of \tagging\ a subject migilt employ in order to \remember.\ Davis points out, however, that even this procedure may have some drawbacks since the testing for the memory functiQn of time may be ditlerent from the function ot' similarity, which is what he desires to research. To combat this obstacle Davis plans to implement correlational studies utilizing his results and those from the three letter paradigm. Future plans for Raphael Davis he had voted to accept Had' he. not changed. .hLS , th,e cotm:nittee would have ongly recomm.ended tile ' cceptailce of their Senate Convenes Again that fine abuse are a have the The for the rs who this a it is a few. ·not tainted is . (bY the I· guiltYt acts on out 1 result e .and its athletic FO:R.LIQVOR AND WINE Try Joke ·Lip stein's 494 State Street 374-1888 LUKE'S SllPERMARKET 830 EASTERN AVE. 8 AM- 10 PM 7DAYS Full Une of deli, cold beer and sQda~ produ~e and grocery • Continued from Pae.e l program on a part-time basis. Tidmarch also introduced sotne cltanges ,jnto the original proposal. One change was to make the program into a pilot program for two years only. The other major · change was to designate dates for a full review of the program. Tidmatch's amendments were moved by a Senator and passed. · Dean Brownlee and Dean Smith both pre$ented their reservations to the program. They were mainly afraid that not all of .... the prQblems, such as whose jurisdiction these students would be under, were solved. lt was then decided that the program would not be implemented until the Deans of Students, Faculty and Graduate Studies felt that all problems were solved. The amended proposal then passe4 with a voice vote. The last item to be discussed was the proposal to develop a MS-Health Systems Management Program with Albany College ()f Pharmacy. ..... . - - .. The PENNY PlN.~CHER QUALITY CLOTHES-. ·_ LOW PRICES USED BUT NOT ABUSED CURRENT STYLES IAU.._.. .. ...... 1122 ALTAMONT AVE. .(Entranee~-~e St.) Tuesday - Saturday 10-S Thursdlly's till 9 p.m. 356-2571 -- ' ' > J I .. -~. ' . '., I .... ,.,.. . ... . . ~ - , - ' · Alaur Liquor Ctnter l.Jquors -- Wtnu - Co.rdid& 151~ EASTERN AYE. . . CORNER JACKSON LOWEST PlliCES At..LOW£0 tN N.Y. STAT,. Senator Gerhan moved an addition to the proposal that would require additional library support for tbe Program. this was catried 9-8, and the whole program as amended was pas·sed . \ IJ-6. The Senate will meet again May Jlst for what should be its final meeting of the year. The major topic -of discussion will be a resolution to cancel -classes for Yom Kippur.- As always. the meetings are open to the entire campus. include the hopes for testing reaction times of individuals using the same basic set-up. The difference would be that the -subject would be required to press a button indicating the similarity or dissimilarity of the light tlasbes. The time needed for a person to make tile -discernment would be recorded and compared with the time interval between the tlashes of light. Such a procedure. Raphael notes, would enter the realm of psychology concerned with the laterality of brain fllnction (i.e. the different processes associated with the two hemispheres of the brain). As with all psychological studies a certain number of subjects must be examined in order to lend statistical validity to the survey. Unfortunately this has been Raphael's .largest obstacle thus far, as he comments, \It's not the same as a large university,\ indicating the relatively low degree Qf student arousal. Mr. Davis wisiles to extend his appreciation to those subject who. have given of their time to aid him in his st11dies. He also acknowledges the efforts of Mr. Stan LeRoy who has been a great boon to his experiments. Mr. LeRoy is responsible for the workings and instrumentation of the various mechanical devices involved. As foF Raphael himself, medical school is next on the agenda. He will be atte11ding either Albany Medical School or Mount Sinai Medical School next ~aU. Union College unites to give Mr~ Raphael Davis our support and best wishes for the future. BUSINESS OPPORTUNITY Stuff Enveln~es $25.00 PER HUNDRED Immediate Earnings Send $1.00 To: .i,.' Envelopes Dept-: 2 2 G 102 Charles Street Boston,Ma$s. 02114 Uniop Pharmacy 600 Union St. Men & Women Student Needs 374-3605

., . :· ·'· Page8 CoiiiCOI'illeft!dfl ~lrtlCUbU1y, f()f . their. full . ooopetarion during the pmod of the moratorium l · requested · when tbe Trustees' : Speeial Ct:mlttlittee was created ; April 16. The atmosphere , within which the Committee ! worked was made \'or~ productive than:~s to everyone's willingness to abide by the spirit- of that requut. Our thanks t<t each of you. Sittce-t.ely • . ' CONCORDIENS/S, May 25, 1977 . and moral integrity• at tbi& t school and we•ve got students 1 here Who ate literally tearinJ this place apart. These ~e • students wilt be in class wttft ' aU of us tomorrow and the next day. r d like to know wtN::re the justice is. Some of these people . are chronic vandall. Why are they still at school? They spuil · . thitlp for the rest of us. , Indirectly 'Q pay for much of. 1 ao·· membets ·community 'vieW!. 1 urge that our elass . act together with the Faculty to express the view that Dr. Bomter is no lonpr able to provide the tnQral l~d.t~bip. the collep must have if 1t l& to pmgress,· lh .ba MISLED ··us In ;.botJt unsa of .flte: .. WQtd. ' ln. the coming weeb W. / # y .- J / '' /, 'I / /'' apology ... .' Ed. Note; Ea:ch , ·.~we: tlttow ·tmt many . persori.ah·,,~hich·,·a~ obvi4tt$ly .nraJi~l:J9&• -li.lt)We,vtr., often it •· Cl racters, Idenstern die into ; into and withe s going Fine direct made tl stud~:;n1 R ·in tog . He portion o l or 2 e~ anc

Page8 j9k~r outta here a minute ... :t~:m:ybe·. eV{;fl. ·\-··'· Qrt.<QiF .. ji• minute. Qu~ . ; •.. m.~kil!$. . the peaceful . ts of.Uuion ;. .. ···tlbrftti College out to look like beer- . Now\ · there is talk that guzzling~ mJndlessiy Weststoek; planned for this:· bloodthirsty savages was so Saturday night~ win have to be hyperbolic (need 1 say eanc1!:lled for security reasons, . exaggerative} that 1 almost lt shnuld be empb:asized th!it · CONCORDIENSIS, May 25, 1977 ·~1\~:!b~~~~~ •. Qt .!1l.; . ' . '~,,, .. ,, \''''\''·'''\'~ .J£4!t•: '' .<.·' T .. • d .... . . . · . . ..· r~J;st~&., . . ~9i~J+ ttl . keeled over with mirth. . in .. many of these cases. The next letter, \elected including l'riday night's. the .. talked all about bow some of vandals h.ave been identified affu;~ tb~ic JtJJ.st in. Jijomas ~uqer's aq}H(y ·to )~9' this · c<iite&e stands. We . must respect their dee:lsion, bUt . it is our responsii1Uity tu dl~m.gree. The ideal way to express out concern is through the commencement exercises. The Trustees. Faculty, and our class will be gathered there. The Trustees have alteady' made. their views known. The faculty with a the candidates for office didn\'t and, in fa(ft, reported. In most know what the real issues instances where guilt is proven, were, and how S9me. weren•t either a fine is levied andjor even fit to hold down a student . the people are. billed fQr their government office. How damages. I for one don't think absolutely ludicrous. As a this is suftldent. concerned student, I know There are students at this what the issues are, like the school who owe amounts BSA and intramural athletics, surpassing $500 for damages and how we should all ~ more they've to property at Co~ particularly, for tbeir full cooperation dnring the period of the moratorium I · · requested when the Trustees• Special Committee was created , April 16. The atmo-3phere • within whleh the Committee 1 worked was made Jnore productfve than!,s to everyone's willingness to abide· by the spirit of that reques-t. Our thanks to each of you. Sincerely, · . ·Dr._ ~e. P•v•port ... . ,. for ''the· S~ Committee ;.~':\ .~::· •. - . ·:.:_,_,'f_:;~:- .. '.-,: .. :;<·; .:~~:8-::.--~·-:, · .. •'. •\ d.li .·~.· I~ 1 I /' obligation as the college. express our / / I f' / '' ,'' .i ( :j ~ ,, \ ' , ' ~~-~i~~~~::~~th~~~ criteria for tenurability. K.oolkat is successful, the changes .are instituted two months before Dr~ Gregory comes up fQr tenure, and are effective immediately. Gregory likes U'nion very much, and is considered a fine , instructor by all of llis students. but realizes the changes in tenurability criteria hurt ·his chances. He feels bat! wo Christopher MeCarty Class of •go apology ~->f ' Ed. Note: Each week we throw out rnany perso:nals wbicll are obviously malici<~us. However, often it . is difficult to Cl by T by rmed in 1 play itse 1akc~sp4;:are's a play ab4 of t mto and 4 with a 's going hnc directi made tt student R portion o I or 2 eg Soy sauc4 Cut the some Mix the ri dash of l an 0 II the o hand\ ing ab

CONCORDJENSIS, May 25, 1977 Page9 culture hakespeare it isn't ... Bravo! week Rosencrantz and ruuu,.••-l•.,.rn Are Dead, a: play by Tom Stoppard and by Joe Millett was rmed in the Nott Memorial. play itself was taken from Hamlet, but it is a play about HamieL It's the ry of those two minor Rosencrant7. and uildenstern and how they into and out ot Hamlet's into and out ot Shakespeare's , without understanding at's going on. Fine directing and an excellent made this play one of the student productions to be IVituleSf>ed on a Union College The following people ,om~ared:· Chris Cbalifoux, Roger rhayes, Bill Pike, Rob Gary Haber, Rich ~mtna:n. Allison Donenfeld, Ben Dibble, Dave Robinson, Chuck Holleman, Dan Rosenbaum, David Schroeder, David Dunham, and Dave Beguin. The lighting, designed by Mike Affinito and Andy Koblenz, merits special praise. And the costumes, by Betsy Mastrianni, contributed greatly to the lucid perlormance. Similar cos turnes rel1ected relationships between characters. A special hand to Bruce Cohen, the musical director, playing live improvised music during the performance. The two and a halt hour performance including 2 ten- minute intermissions captivated an enthusiastic audience which grew considerably from opening. to closing night, as the word spread that this was indeed a Bravo performance! Recipe Corner For all of you who have been the left-over rice from last recipe (I told you to read instructions) or if you would to perfect your skill in this area, this recipe is the Th~ ingredients can be lco.ok~::d ·in bits and pieces and together when you get Here is what you will Yo~ or so of pork portion of rice (precooked) l or 2 egg$. Soy sauce. (optional) Cut the meat into bite-sized and cook it through all the diseases you about in sixth grade that from under-cooked pork'?) a little grease in the pan. some water and then the Mix well and let simmer the rice is reheated. Adding dash of soy sauce will give the an Oriental tlavor. lf the old ''crack an egg with hand 1 ' trick is beyond your ••vvAiu&~ ability, it's ~st to have a .0\/IICIUILUIO<J egg standing by at this -~v..... This is where you need a coordination: tip the pan on holding .the meat and rice in upper' half. In the juice that runs down to the ~l>ottom, scramble an egg. When the egg is done, so is dinner. Enjoy. Thanks Marty.· If you think your favorite answer to the munchies can top this, send it to Box 1382, or slip it under the door of the Concordy office on the fourth floor of Carnegie Hall. Springtime There will be a concert on June 5, Sunday, in Saratoga Springs at the Community Theatre called \Springtime with Lena\ (a Benefit) which will be a benetlt to ensure that there will be a cafe in Saratoga for more years to come. The . Catle Lena, celebrating its 17th birthday on Sunday, May 22, is the oldest continuously running coffeehouse in the United States. The benefit will headline Don McLean, Loudon Wainwright Ill, Tom Mitchell, and Kurt Anderson ... there will be many otJter perlonners as well. George .. WHY IT'S GOT SO HOT AT UNION I languished in the heat Bubbling beads of sultry sweat And waiting for that cold front; That Huffy, freezing cold front; That crisp, Canadian cold front To cascade down frorn the tundra Sending cold condensing moistun: Hanging hammer-like upon me. For the Sun i~ oozing yellow heat. And the earth .1s drenched with ht:unid ~weal High-strung, adolescent s\veat. Lver} pnn: 1~ hkcdlll!' s\H:at Cascadingdo~An Ill\ ~tuhhkd ~.·lun To dribble '\lth ..1 pa~~iilll Into ·puddle\ o;hining darkly, Darkly c;hining in the Sun. \God it's hot.\ the poet cried: \And I've lo~t my ~ense of 'bon heure; So ship the curse away; du.pcr:..ll The seamier side ot honor.': He took his artist's swMd. unsheathed And drove it home with a trusty thruc;t: The Bea1:ot w<b dead; Oedipus unwreathed. While Nemesis blew cold a lusty gust. - RiChard Draeger Excerpts from the prizewinners, American Academy of Poets contest: On the point· where Stony Creek pours frigid and rich into the great creepmg nver, brambles of driftwood and reeds are left in a high water line, where she kneels and takes thumb size sticks dry on the beach, and thinner kindling. She straightens, softened heavy denim and flannel; embrace with wood smoke woman: .• My mother grows old but holds herself in two hands; oak whittled face with annual rings only lightly etched and arms cord strong as she braids her grey hair. We drink bourbon and ice cubes in the shade 0f her last living elm. Float on the clockless river - on time, and always, to sluice - she fishes radiant in the evening, for the hard freckled bass. -Piedmont With Lena Gerdes, who will be performing at the cafe the weekenQ. of June 3, 4 and 5, will add an appearance. arto ATTIC SOUNDS from the mad attic comes the laugh of ice .cutting - whimper of a pearled cane sliding over dusty floor --c grandmother's stark raviflg storks delivering grandfathers by the steamertrunk full capes and spats roiL a tapped out shoe trips a photoalbum greatgrandfather drank his sailor's way from Ireland to Albany, on the other side remarriage & a half-brother no one talked about... floorboards bend and pop under the weight of picking through the packed attic on a rainy day when the rain stops & the mothballs roll into crevices, grandfather folds up, grandmother drops voice & dress, the lid falls as the attic door swings quiet, on an old agreement about mad attics ... it's your turn. - Edward S. Rayher . The concert at the Community Theatre (517 Broadway, Saratoga Springs) will be held from I to 5 p.m. Tickets are $4.00 in advance and $4.50 at the door. They may be purchased from: Thanks tCJ all FINELINES contributors for a great year. Ha:ve a good poetry-writing summer ... we'll look forward to hearing from you and others in the fall. Delanne Stageman, Apex Music, Schenectady Just A Song, Albany Hilton, Troy and Saratoga Saratoga Sound Parking for the theatre is in the municipal lot behind Adirondack,. Trust at Church and Broadway .. For further infol'mation about the concert, please contact Rusty or Janet at 587-8819 (days) or Nan at 587-1724 (eve). United Artist performer Don McLean, whose hit •• American Pie\ has made him known throughout the area .and country, was an early unknown performer· at the cafe, as was Arista Records artist, Loudon Wainwright Ill, who was noted for his work on M*A*S*H as well as tor his top ten single \U(~ad Skunk.\ I om Mltt:hell. Philo artist, and Kurt Anderson arc h<lth renowned locally and have played mnurncrahle tcsuval and cluh engag~:rm;nts lrom Hoston to Bc:rlo.cky 1om's 1':1ilu rclcasl' ha~ htt rnunhcr two on tht: cPtrntn I i1c u•il~l·rt pru11H;.L\\ !11 he n .. ; .,,,:\ ,,,:\,t.tlldltlg, hut lirll ,,t , .,, .lc\lil<'l•t ·\ tl<,lll.I,:c ::, paid !1' .1 wondertul and great lady m the b-.:J ul lulk mu~r~,;, .wJ mu~iL .1nd put,>Illldll(L'- in general with the c<ilc hnsting theatre. poetry and an 1hcrediblc vanety ol actryttlcs. lo1 lunhcr wlurmatiun about tht: lu:.Lui) ul the Caffc lena everyone is encouraged to go to ~araloga Spnng~ and absorb a bit ul the cxc1lcment and good taste Lhat have been the trademarks of th~ calc to so many audiences and pertormers. Caffe Lena - Lena Spencer - 584-9789 Box 1738 Doesn't It Make You Sick l.onstiudion ha~ bc~uu v •. Hh ground.brenking crr<'monif.'li lor ,:,kidmon (.oilege'!:> BC'f'f urt!! center, futuring offici'~ sn<1 57,000 squne feet of :studim for a large number uf arts and uafts. lVhJm work on th~ ~) million huHding will heRin this , summer, and is expected to he completed in St.>ptt>mhrr, 1«»7R. - -------~--- _< ____ • __ _ SF.NIORS: Order your '77 Union Book now in the Student ActiVities Office. l'he Book will cost $5.00 for Seniors and $8.00 for all ot\1\lr&o '1· l here will be -a meeting for all I d · d . ' t I !!tlU enl!t mtnesle In ·gomg o Israel on the Term Abroad I Program next winter on t · Thursday, May 26th at 4:30 in ss 117.

are to CONCORDIENSJS, May 25, !977 Page 9 culture hakespeare it . ' lSll t ... Bravo! I his week Rosencrantz and Ildenstern Are Dead, a play n by lorn Stoppard and by Joe MiUett was rmed in the N ott MemoriaL play itself was taken from speare's Hamlet, but it is a play about HamieL It's the of those two minor Rosencrantz and wldenstern and how they into and out ol Hamlet's . mto and out of Shakespeare's without understanding at's gomg on. hnc directing and an excellent t made this play one ot the t student productions to be on a Union College !\he following people . Cllris Chalifoux, Roger mmerhayes, Bill Pike, Rob mne, Gary Haber, Rich rian, Allison Donenfeld, Ben Dibble, Dave Robinson, Chuck Holleman, Dan Rosenbaum, D a v id S c h r oe de r , 0 a v i d Dunham, and Dave Beguin. The lighting, designed by M1ke Attinito and Andy Koblenz, merits special praise. And the costumes, by Betsy Mastrianni, contnbuted greatly to the lucid performance. Similar costumes reilected relationships between characters. A special hand to Bruce Cohen, the musical director, play1ng live improvised mus1c dunng the performance. fhe two and a halt hour performance including 2 ten- minute intermissions captivated an enthusiastic audience which grew considerably from opening to closing night, as the word spread that this was indeed a Bravo performance! Recipe Corner r or all ot you who have been ng the left-over rice from last 's recipe (l told you to read instructions) or if you would to perfect your skill in this area, this recipe is the The ingredients can be in bits and pieces and together when you get Here is what you will \4 lb. or so of pork portion of rice (prec<Joked) I or 2 eggs Soy sauce (optional) bite-sized s and cook it through member all the diseases you rned about in sixth grade that me from under-cooked pork?) a little grease in the pan. some water and then the Mix well and let simmer the rice is 1:eheated. Adding dash of soy sauce will give the an Oriental flavor. ll the old \crack an egg with hand\ trick is beyond your ability, it's best to have a egg standing by at this This is where you need a coordination: tip the pan on holding the meat and rice in upper halt. In the juice that runs down to the bottom, scramble an egg. When the egg is done, so is dinner. Enjoy. Thanks Marty. It you think your favorite answer to the munchies can top this, send it to Box 13!i2. or slip it under the door of the Concordy office on the tourth tloor of Carnegie Hall. Springtime I here will be a concert on June 5, Sunday, in Saratoga Springs at the Community Theatre called \Springtime with Lena\ (a Benefit) which will be a benefit to ensure that there will be a cafe in Saratoga for more years to come. The Caffe Lena, celebrating its 17th birthday on Sunday, May 22, is the oldest continuously running coffeehouse in the United States. The benefit will headline Don McLean, Loudon Wainwright Ill, Tom Mitchell, and Kurt Anderson ... there will be many ot.her performers as well. George WHY IT'S GOT SO HOT AT UNION I languished in the heat Bubbling beads of sultry sweat And waiting for that cold front; That fluffy, freezing cold front; That crisp, Canadian cold front To cascade down from the tundra Sending cold conden~ing moisture Banging hammer-like upnn me. For the Sun is ooting yellow heat. And the earth is drenched v. ith humid ... wcat: Hlgh-,trung. adolescent ~\\eat. I \cr::- port: 1~ hkcdlllj! o.,v.cat Ca-.cading on\\ n m~ -..tuhhlcd d1111 I o d nbblc v. 1lh ...1 pa..,~ton Intu puddk~ ~hining dark\. Dark h ... hi n:m: in~ l~e Sun . ' \Cod it'~ h,,t.\ the pnct cned: .. •\nd J\ ln ... t tn\ -.cn'c ,1! \hnn heme.' ~o r;hir the c••r\l' av.av. d1,pcr..,c The seamier stde ol honor.\ He took hi' arti~t'~ sw(lrd. un-;heatht>d And dr<J\C 1t twmt.: v.tth a tnhty thnht. I he Bea\t v.a~ JcaJ; OeJ!pu~ Lllt\r.. rcatl11:d. While !'emes1\ hlcv. ~.:old a lu..,t:-. gust - Richard Draeger Excerpts }rum rhe prizewinners, American Academy uf Poets contest: On the point where Stony Creek pours frigid and rich into the great creepmg nver, brambles of driftwood and reeds are left In a high water llne . where she kneels and takes thumb size sticks dry on the beach, and thinner kindling. She straightens, softened heavy denim and f1annel~ embrace with wood smoke woman: My mother grows old but holds herself in two hands; oak whittled face with annual rings only lightly etched and arms cord strong as she braids her grey hair. We drink bourbon and ice cubes in the shade of her last living elm. Float on the clockless river - on time, and always, to sluice - she fishes radiant in the evening, for the hard freckled bass. - Piedmont With Lena Gerdes, who will be performing at the cafe the weekend of June 3, 4 and 5, will add an appearance. arts ATTIC SOl;NDS frorn the mad attic comes the laugh of ice cutting whimper of a pearled cane sliding over dust) floor - grandmother'' stark raving storks delivering grandfather' by the steamertrunk full capes and ~pats roil. a tapped out ~hot: trips a photnalbum grcatgranJfa thcr drank hi:-. ~ailor\ way !rom Ireland ttl Albany, on the other side remarriage & a half-brother no one talked abQut ... floorboards bend and pop under the weight of picking through the packed attic on a rainy day when the rain stops & the moth balls roll into crevices, grandfather folds up, grandmother drops voice & dress, the lid falls as the attic door swings quiet, on an old agreement about mad attics ... it's your turn. - Edward S. Rayher I he concert at the Community rheatre (517 Broadway. Saratoga Springs) will be held from I to 5 p.m. Tickets are $4.00 in advance and $4.50 at the door. They may be purchased from: Thanks to all FINELINES contributors for a great year. Have a good poetry-writing summer ... we'll look forward to hearing from you and others in the fall. Delanne Stageman, Box 1738 Apex Music, Schenectady Just A Song, Albany Hilton, Troy and Saratoga Saratoga Sound Doesn't It Make You Sick Parking for the theatre is in the municipal lot behind Adirondack Trust at Church and Broadway. For further information about the concert, please contact Rusty or Janet at 5!i7-8Sl9 (days) or Nan at 587-1724 (eve). United Artist performer Don McLean, whose hit .. American Pie\ has made him known throughout the area and country, was an early unknown performer at the cafe, as was Arista Records artist, Loudon Wainwright Ill, who wa~ noted for his work on M*A*S*H as well as lor h1s top ten ~mglc \'Dead Skunk... I om M1h.:hell, l'h1lo art1st, and Kurt Anderson arc both renowned locally and have played mnumcrahlc lcst!val and club cngagcnu.:nts trnm HtJston to lkrhlc~. I pm's P!ulo rcka~c ha.., hrt trumhcr tiH' on the L.l,lllltr\ eli .II h :n \~1\lill, I ex a' .,. ,,·:: rrdll:l~~·, t•· f,c llllf .. ; . ..;-.:.t::dr<~!\. hut lrrl' ,•! -·.~ .1'-~:.,,·J,' d.\' hPill 1 l~t' I') (1dld (tl ,t v.onJcrlui and great lady Ill th~· ~.:J ,1! L ··~ t.nu:.r~. ,md rnu~:.· .\'1\~ :':r:·.•rm.uh ,., 111 gcnt·ral W!th ~hc L·,dl h·•\>lltl!l theatre. poctrv and .ur ,,1, ll:d:hk •:mcty ot altr\l!rc;. ;-t'•l t111lfh:: .:i:uitllatlOll .1bo·.: ~;1, lu~tor; ,11 thc l'ath· lett.! everyone •~ encouraged to go tCl \,u.tlot~,.t :-,prrng' and ab~or h ..1 h1l ,,; tltt: cXLilc!llcnt and good ta-.tt· tlr~t ha-.c lxcn th~ trademark\ ol tht: call: Ill ~oman} audtcncc~ and performers. Calle Lena Lena Spencer 5~4-9789 ~ ~ tJ .. ~ Conslmdion ha\ begun 'i·ith groundbrukinf!, rt'rcmonil'\ tur :.-,k,idmure (. ollege·,. 11<e\' urb nnter, fe~tturing ufficn sn..t ~ 7 ,HUO \'4uarc ftd uf ·.tudim fur 11 large number of f!l'h 11m! ~.:mfh. MaJor V~ork on llll~ ~·-' nullio11 huildin~ 'Ai!l ht'gm tbh summer, and is u.pected to b~, (llttlpleied in Srptemhrr, l'»7N. -·------ I \>FMORS: Ordt'r your '77 I \ nion Book now in the Student Activities Offici'. I he Book will cost $5.00 for Seniors and $8.00 for all oth~rs. I - - -- • - 1 lhere Y~ill he a meetang fllf all -.tmlenb int-ere .. ted in ~oin~ In \ luael un (he I erm -\hrnad · , l'ro~ram next winter on' I I rhursday. Ma} 26th at 4:.\0 in i . L ________ ss ~?_· _________ J

•I ·.' '·.' '. ',!' ,''· ' Page 10 CONCORDLENSIS, May 25, 1977 . . . .. - ' classifieos I:. • ' • ·, _.v ' • • ' BWETNBOAIV LOST: A Spalding left handed baseball glove. If found, please contact Terry at 107 Webster House. Phone No. 382-8625. The glove has a picture of a bull on the inside. WANTED: Furniture to fill my apartment. Beds, table, etc. Call Dave at 370-2497 (off-campus phone). For Sale: Pioneer Stereo Amplifier SA 7100 20 watts/ channel, I% years old, mint. cond. $110, call Jeff at 370-6541. For Sale: AM-FM tuner, 2 speakers, turntable. Bargain of lifetime - $45.00. Call Ext. 621.3. . ROOMMATES WANTED - male or female to share large colonial home and acreage about 8 miles from campus. Pets, dairy herds welcome. Garden is now underway. Available through summer and next year. $60 per month plus utilities and deposit. Contact Chris or Skip at 399l3957. WANTED: Furniture for living room: Couches, chairs, lamps, etc. Will pick-up. Contact Debs, 399-3957 evenings. RIDE NEEDED: To and from Providence, Rhode Island area - Friday, May 27th, returning either Saturday evening May 28th or Sunday May 29th. Please call Jo-Ann, 370-6504. . 1 ATTENTION! The Second Annual Union Book AII- I Campus Photograph will be taken on Monday, May 30 at 1 o'ci«H:k at Library Plaza. Help . . spread the word .and be part of I the Book. SENIORS: Time is running short! Buy your tickets for the BOOZE CRUISE on Lake ·George now. We would like to make this a SENIOR event, but ticket sales are now open to the entire eampus. Get your tickets in the Student Activities Office soon ·before the boat becomes saturated with underclassmen. Those interested in bu~ transportation and/or acquiring rooms for the night sl10uld leave their names with Ms. itarra. Let's make this night a success!!! For details stop in at the SAO and get your tickets ..• NOW!!! To all those interested in 'urc.hasing the i981 Freshman eeord: One to financial strains on our budget this year, we are asking 1111 those interested in purchasing the Freshman Record to order. their copies now. To accommodate our expense budget, requests made in· advance and paid in full will be honored. Again, there will be a choice ~etween hard or soft covered ~ooks. The price differenti;:!l is as follows: $6.00 for hard covered and $5.00 for soft covered (per ~opy). Reminder: there will be NO I::XTRA Freshman Records. So ~rder your copies now! ' Please send the below order lorm with your check to freshman Record (campus mail) ~amft I ~ddr-ft ' ~bon .. No. of Copt- Hardcovel Sllftoover !4-moUDt Enclosed Make checks payabl~ to • !Union College Freshman Reeord 1981 RIDE NEEDED: To Longmeadow, Mass. Friday,. May 27th, returning Sunday, May 29th. Please call Jo-Ann, 370- 6504. ApiU'tment to SUBLET: months of July and August '17. 107 Seward Place - directly across from Fox Dorm Parking Lot. Two bedroom modernly furnished apartment with living room, kitchenette and bath .. Please contact Jo-Ann, 370-6504 or Diane, 370-:6638. REWARD $50.00 reward for infom1ation leading to I) apprehension of person{s) responsible for destruction of and theft of contents of cigarette machine previously located in the front alcove of Fox Dorm on the night of 'May 20, 1977- May 21, 1977; AND 2) Restitutions for damages and theft from said machine. All inforniation will be kept as ·confidential as possible. Please respond· to Brian L. Heaps, Btix 722, Union College, or call 37(}- 642i or stop by 004 Webster. REWARD- $20.00 reward for information leading to I) apprehension of ,person(s) responsible for vandalizing cigarette machine previously located in Davidson Co-op on the night of May 20; 1977-May 21, 1977; AND 2) Rest~tution for damages to said machine. All information will be kept as confidential as possible. Please respond to. Brian L. Heaps, Box 722, Union College, or call370- 6427 or stop by 004 Webster. MOUNTEBANKS END LIVELY SEASON The busiest season in Mountebanks' history will come to a rip-roaring finish next Wednesday night with a one-time- only performance of Robert Patrick's. One/Person. One/Person is a short monologue describing \one person's\ attempt to deal with a lost love. Immediately after the performance, the Mountebanks will host a reception to celebrate a very successful season. Adm~ssion to both events is free. WEDNESDAY JUNE t, 8 P.M., NOTT MEMORIAL THEATRE FOR SALE: Encore electric violin bass guitar with velvet-lined case, double pickups, and adjustable bridge. Excellent condition. Asking $120. Call T\m at 370- 6412 or 346-9895. The Mounteba.nks present ONE PERSON, a monologue of love, a short play by Robert Patrick, performed by George Siletzky, directed by Blair Reischer. Wednesday, June l, 8:00 p.m., Nott Memorial Theatre. Admission free. When Diplomacy Fails First Annual Awards Banquet will !Je held Friday, May 27, )977 in S.S. IIO at twenty-hundred hours (8 p.m.). For non-members, a limited number of fifty-dollar-a-plate tickets will be available at the door. Dress is formal or costume. One or Two Women wanted to share a summer apartment with. two other women. Spacious second-floor furnished flat on c .. rrie Street. Living room, dining room. kitchen with pantry. front and back porch, bath with shower. Off-street parking, nice back lawn. Low rent - free utilities. Pleas.e call 370•6672. Fol' Sale: 1972 BMW 2002, low mileage. excellent condition. many options. Call 377c7810, Andy. For Sale: Bed, desk. chair, dresser. All ·in excellent condition. Selling at low price. Contact Mike at 374-2~57. ' Found: at Chi Psi Saturday Night - a Men's Timex Watch. Describe to Claim. 346-9829. ·D UNION COLLEGE PUB RESTAURANT ~« c 5Cl1€NEGTADY, N,Y. 11308 I-10LLO\V For Sale: 5 cubic refrigerator automatic defrost, full freezer. Must sell! Standing table lamp. Call Pebbi, (!595 Ride Needed: to Cornell U., Ithaca. One way Sunday, May 29 or Monday, May 30. «;:all Debbi, 6595 Summer Sublet - Roomy 3~Bedroom Apartment only one block away from campus on Canie Street. Two living. rooms, kitchen facilities, front and ·back porch. Asking 45/month per person. Will Dicker. Call Jon at 6732. A,partmen~ to Sublet for summer '77, walking distance from campus, .!621 Carrie Street. Three bedrooms, kitchen, living room, dining room, bath, fully carpeted and paneled. Contact Sllaron or Marie, 370-6447. For S-'e: Schwinn varsity 10 speed boy's bike. ?.7\ excellent conditi<>n.- Call 370- 6721 . Apartment to sublet: summer '77. Very close to campus - 1065 lJniversity Place. Three bedrooms, kitchen, living room and dining room. Reasonable rate. Contact Kathy or Denise at 370-'6417 or Laurie, 370-6525, For Sale: Panasonic FM/AMJFM stereo with built-in 8 track player/recorder.' Includes 2 Panasonic \Thrusters\ speakers and microphone. Brand new in Jan. '77 and is in excellent condition. Cost $250 new, asking $210 or make offer. Contact Matt Fronk, 346-9973. NexJ year when you want the chance to ·reach out. to somebody, one-to-one, b~ome a Big Brother or Big Sister. It will be an important and enriching experience .. Still tbiok we c11n communicate? First were the words, now is your boy-friend and next? ... Let's not ·find out! No more reason. to be lost. now we know our way out! Macaroni: LoC>king forWard to rooming with you nex.t year. It's up to the 4 of us to break in the rest of the floor. Brownie To all. the silly girlies: Have fun over the summer and be sure to visit us next year. S.B. To Betty Bacall: I have a friend whose name is Humphrey. Would you be interested ... ? Kathryn Grayson Well Chris, we finally found ours. The other Scottie Freckles - have a great summer and happy sailing. A future sailor? Chubby Baby: It's been great sharing this year with you. I hope next year we'll continue to share so many exciting and different experiences together. Poopy Doo Somehow, as the y~rs of our lives flash by in the minutes and hours of reflection, it becomes hard to say goodbye to the peuple we hav~ grown to know, respect and' love. We may realize how we would do it; if it wns ours to do over. We become aware of our development as people, now sensitive· about the lives of those who have touched ours, and we, theirs. We realize the impact that walking the paths here have made on us. We .have lived and worked in a community where ideals can be strived for, where ideas can come to be. We have the world to look forward to. And in the end it is hard to say goodbye when there is much left unsaid. Ronnie * * * * President Bonner;· Y o.ur oye.r- concentration on the means to a .goal results in ·a k(nd of functlontt!: blindness that tends to preclude the consideration .of other contingencies and the generation of other alternatives. Words that remain .in your heart,. are· not words at all! Feelings kept imprisoned, will silently die! To the gal It may concern: The deepest feeling also dies in silence. G.B.: Jl,lst thought we would .send you a reminder ~ Keep your fingers out of out salad!!! ~ Two richer friends who want to stay that way. Mlli:li.:. Here's yc;>Ur long awaited personal, we .didn't want you to feel left out!! Where are you going on your honeymoon? 'i'wo friends. Cyndy - Welcome!! Now you know what college life is really )ike ~ What do you think? ' Jeff: Weather's :really great up here ~ and tire diving boards ar~ high enough to avoid accidents!! A concerned nurse and Lawyer. J: Couldn't .resist one last time. I guess skinny nerds aren~t that bad after all!!! P.T. Charlie: Happy 19th Birthday!!!{eVen though it's a little early) Enjoy yourself now, Fril!ay may .be tOO; late!.! A coed with a sill'pris!. ·Rieh - Bushes are a great place to visit l>ut we wouldn't want to live there! S .and K 8-b: It's been a very interesting year, hasn't it'!!! · MKKKKM: How would the idol· look in a bikini? how .about Chet Arthqr? BEER: lf you like to drink beer and play softball outside while seeing people that you haven't seen for a while. then contact me in the next few weeks a1Jout- my party in Rochester July 3. I'll mave maps and details available soon. Murray Levison To 2nd floor West:. You were the i>est part of this year. I'll come visit. See you. JR Prof. Thomas: cette petite annorice est pour vous - Bonjour! Sigma Chi: I'd say it's about time for a final serenade! one who appreciates a good chorus. Rich: Have we learned how to party well enough yet? Michele: It's been a great year, lefs hope next year is too! Your roomie PAR'l'-Y: Thete's been a change of plans. Anyone who would like full directions to the party that I am pil!rining for July 3 in Rochester should sec ·me in the next few weeks. I will have maps and full details available then. Murray Levison Dear Dad - .Everyone should nave such fine, priceless and beautiful furniture in their office. Too bad you probably won't learn to appreciate it before it's .gone forever. - Your Ill dliugbter Dear Dad .._ You'd better stop abusing your furniture or it's not going to last much lon~et. T:o all my friends at UNION flDd particularly WRUC - Many thanks for an incredible year (Schit'ty isn't as bad as I thought!!) To those of you leaving, my best wishes, love -and luck. to you. To those of yoU staying, haVe a great summer, see you ne~tt year! - DIRK * * * Applications are now being taken for Fall Term * * * * * * Dishwashers. & Experienced Bartenders To. Sharon, MAI'ie and Karen - 11 the best because it was such a Thank you. Love - Franny Karen Sttausfeld - Good luck - as :beautiful as you are love .... ~bawski - Benny 'loves you. l)onna G ....... Without you by my during the last 8 weeks to 'ltelp keep head 11bove water, t don't think I have made it ~ DaPIIY - P.S. ,appreciated. Yo Bird .... Ge~ down. -Donna G. ..... Are you queen of Concortly? Andy WOOdward and Matt -- I hear channel 'six .reporters. De~ S. - Psychological unfair- WCLA Suzy n, - Where are you living year?-WCLA Joe- Weforgiveyou- M. E. B, Andy K. - WE. sincerely agree you that all Union College students mature! · Sari Gerb - - Happy happy ,pirthd!ly! ~ from all of us To \1 Like Dreamin'\ - Love ya \Torn between l'wo Lovers\ B.P. ...... What do home•qJade i Clarence DaTrow. and ribs have common? ~ Your young sweetie Kinkade - l really do. To tbe new puppy on the ·Floor - We'll have two pet co's to four in the morning, January I 0, 1978. L. and B. To01 - Have you any burrs under saddle? · -Dear Fourth Floor Richmond - been a great year all .. because of all of I'll never forget all the staying talk, all the· buzzes, both on the and from the alco~ol, and most of all of you just being there. Special just go to Beth for not pulling out all hair over a floor full of freshmen. Lauretr !(athy - I 'love your wiggily feet. few other things! Dear Chris ancl Jo - moving to North does not .mean the Stop by and visit next year~ Who have to sing with? Who will kidnap me )ack-in-the~Box at four in the ·Boo hoo, parting is such sweet sorrow. Lauren Oear • Blailla ..._ It's been a year remember. Through Chern . Engineering we've lasted. l'.U remember our rooming togetber a~ one the .greatest things to happen to me. Let not be ships which pass fn. the night. many steps ·is it to the second floor'' grateful ·roomie - STARSKY' getting. divorcee Michelle: H sharPener? Y !!U B.R.; I undc make-up? To~~ B.R.: :Why any more? Y01 · Your crippled Senion; J1 ·Lottery for m; the sam~; ord Hinnlilii. Suzamie D€ So am i livi1 Innocent ,I!Wl Life is bill cageU!! Dan: \Bew lover--Pinch Diekennan: ENLIGHTMI ABS: A.re · Your eo!Dpan ISA:. Con~ party! Appllcatlo• College Presi• Guys, the Big stores. ijurry Dellf Unic most pleasur been so~ coo great luck in that I co.uld i conscience al C 1 - H expectations. A tumor to the effect Frost hav~ regarding a Frost will re dollars, whil weight in fac C 1 ; Go next year d, independent EKYT: I be a reality, you•Rubro. C l M the home fr Patti: 1 chambre: France. Cc mais ·\mel Long lsla1 interessant Kitta - We've lasted through. trivta you know wh.o, Chem labs, ani:l Ge,ogr;!PIJ for two please. I think it VIas wo Remember, as said Browning, \ ... The is yet to be.\ J. - Have a great summer, 1 will See you in the Fall. Lliv ~ K Church Goer - Good luck with studies this, summer. I'm sure I'll be you around. - Clar)( St. Ski~t - Where's spoiled Peter? S ·,t· d. \' . u. ents •.. Remember that all earn· pus mail will come to your college box and not your home address. So check your box at least twice a week. \ Brc Ma . Lo1 Ne Out c j

I -It ~k- s under \' I. I I caJtl· me to ' and ddress. ~ox at 'ek. • f Cf ~· r r - STARSKY AND HUTCH: So you are gettii;lgdivorced come June 8- dirty Harry. Michelle: How good · is your pencil &harpener? Y \lit-silent secret admirer, B.R.: I understand you. are .inv~sting in make-up? Toll!l. B.R.: Why aren't you !!itting with me any mor~? Y<!u are as beautiful ;ts always. · Your cripPled lovet:. SeniorS; Juniors, and .Sopho!Dores: Lottery for maUboxes shall sta,rt Monday, the same order' as the rooms. SUziinne Ho'QIIili•• · · S~e DowllD&: No more rooms left? So am I living with you neilt Fall? An Innocent,_... of 1980's class. Life. is bllt a stage .,.. Union is the cage!J!! Dill: \13eware the Ides of iune\ Your lover-Pinch Dlckennan: ~l is the AGE OF ENLIGHTME:ri!T, . .Sneak.y Pete's. ABS: ·Are you high? Are you stoned? Your companioiiS. ISA~ Congratulations for such. a good party! Applicatio~ for tile positio!l of Union College President are now .available at Two Guys, the Big N, and other fine d~partment stores. l'lurry;. supplies are limit~d. Delll' Union College: thank you for a most pleasurable two years. Y ()U have all been so~ co()perative, a~td I wish you all great luck in the. future. My only sadness is that I could not assist you further than my conscience allowed. C 1 - t{ope these person;tl~ meet your expectations. A .:umor has been making the rounds to the effect that Pres. Bonner :and David Frost have come to .an agreemc;mt regarding a four-part television interview. Frost will receive an estimated one million ddllars, while the President will receive his weight in faculty \vot~s of no-confidence.\ C 1 : Going to miss your floor friends nex:t year don't laugh .girls, especially you independent freshman??? EKYT: 1 pray our dreams will one day be a reality, it will be sooo nice - I love you•Rubro. C 1 Maybe you will learn not to burn the home fries, only kidding. Patti: A mon co-editeur et ami de chambre: avoit une saison superbe au France~ Cet annee a passe tres rapidernent mais ·\merei~ pour toutes. De Toronto a Long Island a Tufts, c'etait un temps tres interessant. A Janvier. Jane G. and Linda R. - It's a long way Ull the salmon ladder. Hope going down is more fun. Unable to perpetuate the species without you, ·Fudd and Elmer,. To .A,ttik,CY,. Tbe Bl!linse, Laure~, :Koko, Jolll'lle, .M~try, Susan, Meg; Cindy, Kerry - I'm going to mi~s aU of you this surnmerl Any.way,. have a fun summer~ - K 2 .... P.S. Don't ·be ·surpri~d .if 1 show up at your doorstep. Even in Germany :Keny! Betsy - Good luck in the future - you'll do well ~ you sly puss! ~ ~ris ' . C2· ...,. I'm re3ody for some horseback- · riding this llu!llffier ;..._ Kl Jeth - We1ll have to m~ke some Holupchi sometime - before· \the end of nex~ year at l~ast ~ Kr~ Kerry ,... I'll ma:ke it to Swit~erland over Xm;is vacation - just wait and s~e! ~ 1{rJi - P.S. ij:a,ve a gre<~t year ;tbroad! Cbl41y - I'll make it to the Island this sum.mer -and you better come to Auburn too! -Krls lo the J)estest roomie i co!lid ever bavl:! ..- l'm going to miss you terribly! ~ Your roomie Kitta - Don't do anything I wouldn't do over .the summer- You'll never guess wbol · Bret - Only one more week of Physics! Mike and Tiin .... Keep out of trouble this summer. If you're evet in the vicinty of Auburn, stop by. To Ross T. Davis ..... Remember that Horatio not only survives Hamlet and Ophelia but inherits the kingdom as well. Thanks for everything. Love - Phoebe Ashton To the &irl who iS fey .... Thanks for moving• yollr seat in English. Wasn't it fun being double twins? - G-1-M-P ·Mark P. - Have a great summer! - Your secret admirer I will pay top-dollar for new or used paisley underwear. Please respond c 1 o tl)is newspaper. Thank you - BG Wanted: New Board of Trustees. After last week's decisions, the old Board must be watp~d. To the loud girl coming down tt stain - \ ... and she said... Wouldn't you have told your mother?!\ From your friend who·can always hear you coming. ' Fourth Floor Richmond: Every last one of you is ter.rific[ Thanks for making this a great year. Beth M.K. ... You're the greate~t. Thanks for everything - Letter Receiver ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~B § Bored With § §the Skellar and The Pub?!s ~- ~ § 1~i JOSHUA'S COCKTAIL ~ ~ LOUNGE and DlSCO ~ ·tm 4:oo~: ~. ~ 1617 Union Stre~t. -~ ~ ~ S DRINKS .15 with Union I.D. . -~ s~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~ -tr'here IS G differen,e!!! Ci~-- ~\.i PREPARE FOR: MCAT• OAT• LSA T• SAT GRE • GMAT • OCAT • VAT ENROLLING NOW \EARLY BIRD'' CLASSES For July LSA T . & Summer Classes for Fall MCA T Our broa..d range 'Of programs provides an umbrella of test- mg know-how that enable!! as to otter the best preparation avail3ble no matter which course is taken. Over 38 years of exper'ience and success. Small c.lasses. Voluminous home .study materials. Cou·rses that are constantly up- (jaled. Permanent centers open day.s, evenings & week-. ends all year. Complete tape faeilities for review of class lessons and· for us13 of supplementary ma\er'ials. Make-ups for missed lessons at our centers. ECFMG • FLEX NA T'L MEDICAl & DENTAL BOARDS Flexible Programs & Hours • Brpoklyn . . . . . ..... 212~336·5300 ~ ~· . · -H· Manhattan · .......... 212·838·. 44 .. 54 1 .'~ . , . Long Island , ......... 516·538·4555 lfiiP · N !\lew Jeney . , .......... 201·848·2662 . . .. du .. tttde. NV Stat_e Only 800' 22·1. ·9840· ~ E. DUCATIONAL. CI:NTER LTD CALLToli Free • . • . . . · . 167~~ ;~ 2 ~~ Bktyn .-.~e.ril.Jr~~~ :~t~:~tO~lo~.r iu: 11 s,. c,i~li.lii~i~ri~d ~~~~~~~~~o~, s 11 w i!ziie'i''\ia 1 . -... tEST ~REPARATION • . . SPECIALISTS SINCE 19313 CO~COlttHENSI$, Jhy25. 1977 Karen: to the only kid I know who C;tn get .a. Bermuda suntan on ·Long Island· during winter break: have a fantastic summer. Don~t eattoo many ice cubes. Meg: What are you going to do about cauliflower next year? D.ori: To- my future roommate: maybe we can rent skis to get to classes during the winter. Meg:. The trip· to Rafter& a few weeks ago· was great. Now, be sure to take trips to vi~it me this summer. You're illore than welcome any time. It will be good' to see yoti. Terri: Have a super birthday, your r9(lmie EKYT ~ l think a quartet will be fine ~Love Yll .-. Burro. Repee: Tum Over-! Bbillll: I'm. ~ure you like d0$s. Q.uris Ha]~Jt - Don't destroy that · room before I get it! ;E. Tessler: Kindly ~over up your \musclilar\ arms. TII!l-y'n: driVing me wild. • Tha:nl\ you, V. Alexiev Donilll G. and Sara S.: Thanks for the meatball sandwiches, tuna on cracked wh.eat, fried bologna, hershey bars and pepsi. ·Andrew; Danny, Ben and Paul P.S. No beer for Ben Get 11 whiff of 407! Knock you down milch? In French, we have restructured the curricUlUJD in 11early all its areas. The most important changes fall in the · following: LANGUAGE COURSES . French 10, Reserved now exclusively for thQse who have never studied French before. Fall Term. French- 10-11, A new, · · combined; two-credit intensive course in French. Six hours of class and two hours of · supervised b1b. Winter Term. French 20, A new course • .designed especially for those . whose knowledge of French is . pretty shaky and who need a • eQurse mid-way between 10 . and 11. (We would call it lOA . if we could!) Fall Term. · French 140, Advanced Study in the French Language. · Spring Term. LITEllATURE AND CIVILIZATION COURSES A whole new series of topical courses will be offered here, inCluding Masterworks. of French Literature, Women · Writers of France, France de · .Nos Jours, StiJdies in the French Novel, French Literature from Louis XIV tn Vol~ire. A new course in. English,- Marxism and Art,.· will be offered under the · rubric, European Literature in . Translation. · In Spanish, new courses are being offered at the \140\ level, including: Spanish 140, Cervantes: . Don Quixote. Spanish 141, Contemporary • Hispanic Theater Spanish 145, Special Topics ·. in Hispanic Literature Students who have any . questions about placement in any of these courses should . drop by tbe M9dern Language . offices in the Humanities ·.Center. MADISON'S TYPING SERVICE · • Reports • Manuscripts • nesis • Resumes Prompt Service Reasonable Rtltes 433 Liberty St.. 372\'5141 Schenectady lilllllr 11 Geek Speaks Many people (and by the hopelessly r.erative term 'tna11y,' I mean more than 'a few;' or, t() ·be more precise, •somewhat less than the majority') have been heard complaining about the lack of things to do on campus. This puz:l;les me, tor although 1 am not especially creative (in a constructive sense, at least), 1 still seem to enjoy myself to the hilt; perhaps the highly- touted •nothing to do on campu11' is merelY some profanely nihilistic (dare l say Pynchonesque'!) platitude decrying good clean fun. Indeed, there are a myriad of satisfying activities (both nocturnal and otherwise) occurring even as you read this letter activities which, although not highly publicized, are still (and nonetheless) pleasantly diverting. Allow me to prologue, and then enumerate. Consider Union College: small, dynamic; festering with political intrigue, and smelling ·of stale beer. Combined, these ingredr' nts form a heady brew ditiicu t to ignore. Sure, we have Pub, a Skeller, and innumerabfe fraternities; it seems that the Big Three as listed above provide not social incentives, but rather prerequisites. In other words, if you don't go to the Pub, the Skellar, or Fraternity X to socialize, then people tend to look at you askance (similar to looking at you sideways; for a more literary clarification, see Dr. M. N. Schvartzenberg, Facial Expression and Sterility). And yet, there is so much more than just vegetating in one of the local gin-mills; gad, it boggles the mind (don't worry; boggling is a very gentle sloshing movement, and will not harm your mind seriously) when one considers the fantastic number of fun alternatives which this campus has to offer. Attend: Showering. A thousand soothing tingers probing your innermost recesses as you determinedly lather up your armpits; a steady, pulsating stream - erotic, mysterious - -covering your entire body with skin-moistening droplets of water. Showering can be a rewarding (and hygienic experience): the Romans worshipped showerheads as demi-gods, and the Greek .,;philosopher Socrates once said; \cleanliness is next to godliness, but a showered body is like a melody (Socrates later retracted that statement when Archimedes turned the popular trend towards baths).\ Anyone can shower; in fact, some of y()ur friends might have urged that you immediately indulge in this refreshing year-round sport. ·Hey, it's only water; have a good time! Brushing your teeth. Tooth decay affects everybody, but few people understand how much fun fighting plaque can. be! Picture this scenario: the Enemy has just established a temporary stronghold in your right upper bicuspid. Their leader is ecstatic; .. soon,\ he cried demonically, \the gum infra-structure will be ours!\ Suddenly, a sliadow is seen on the horil:on. The Enemy cro1.1ches, terrified, as you take your toothbrush and ... wipe 'em out! With a few quick strokes of the toothbrush, entire b~tallioris ate crushed: :thousands are left homeless, and your molars echo with the heart-rending moans of horribly mutilated bacteria. Yessiree, there's nothing like brushing your teeth to get that great, minty taste of destruction ... in the privacy of your very own lavatory. Counting your change. J. P. Morgan, wealthy industrialist and .financier, was once asked by a neophyte reporter for tl:te then-successful New York Herald-Tribune if he had ever been bored, knowing that the world's finest resources were at his disposal. Morgan merely shook his head bemusedly, gave the reporter a wry smile, and said, \Son whenever I feel bored, I just count my change.\ ehange is easy to make, and can be made in varying denominations. The more money you have, the more change-related permutations you can arrange; Why, a mere hundred dollar bill can be converted at any reputable bank for the staggering sum of ten thousand pennies. Wow, what a neat way to light the blahs ... while at the same time; teaching you the value of money. Running for student office. Union College, for some inexplicable reason, allo'Ws .anyone to run for student government offices. Consequently, anyone can be elected. While this is puzzling to blueblooded elitists like myself~ the majority of the campus community seems to favor democracy (ugh!), so 1 guess mob-rule will continue to prevail. Still and all, running for office lets you meet people (you must collect a ·minimum number of bon~t­ fide signatures to get on the ballot) from all sorts. of backgrounds; it lets you wheel and deal (as it were) with tile handful or so of 'behind-the- thronists' at large and of course, it lets you kill an afternoon. But the big thi11g about running for oftlce is power: raw, immutable power; the ability to shape this college like a lump of clay on a hot evening, or shmear it into the ground with relish (or if relish isn't available, mustard will suffice). Bonapartes of Schenectady, unite! Staring. Sartre, , that irrepressible existentialist and man-about-town, once quipped that \we're all going to die, so why live'?\ Wel~ if that's the case, you might as well stare at the wall or into the mirror or at your navel, because let's face facts: in eighty years or so, most of us will be a hot, dry dust blowing across Alexander Field 'While ~ur grandchildren play in the rubble of Schenectady. Staring is easy to learn, but takes a lifetime to master, As the Jnan said, life's just a crackerbanel of futility: defy the gods - stare! Resigning from office. Similar to \running for office,\ only more so. For a better understanding of the nature : and function of resignation, ! see T. N. Bonner's I'm llere 1 To Stay, C. h. 13, which deals !with the now-famous ·\Resignation Letter to the Board of Trustees (hilarious betore-bed time reading! - ed.).\ Who, after having read this damning dissertation, lias the courage to · say, .. 'there's nothing to do, i'm boredf' Who, I reiterate? Nob()dy, that's Who.

. i ·.··1· .. , .1. . ' J<, ' . ' . Page 12 CONCORDIENSJS~ M(ly 25, 1977 6port6 . . . . . Laxmen End Season on High Note by ROBERT GRUSKY This past Wednesday the Unio11 Lacrosse team· closed out a fine; season with an exhilarating 16-1 f' win over the Big Green from Dartmouth. The win ·was the sixth in a row and proved that the future gloWS brightly for the Garnet. Dartmouth opened the game's scoring on a shot from Bierrnan., wh.o had taken a good. pass from behind the cage. They q'!lickly added another as Battle went around two Garnet defenders and . fired an extremely hard shot on a downward angle for the score. At 7:20 the Big Green made it 3-0 as Taylor made a great bounce shot, the ball hitting right in front of gC>alie AI Greenburg and popping into the upper right haifd corner. Union then began to show what a fine team it is,' beginning a patient comeback. Ray Stecker and Rich Romer executed an excellent give· and go at the midfield strip, which created a two-on .... one situation and allowed Stecker to hit Jed Kanner on the break a11d resulted in a goal. Dartmouth scored again as Jackson cut across the middle, took a pass, and scored. At the 4:49 mark Ray Stecker beat two Dartmouth· defenders and made an excellent pass to Jed Kanner, who proceeded to go around a Dartmouth defenseman aQ.d poke ~t by th~ goalie. Two minutes later Jim Thompson~ Big T, took a hard shot from the right 1 side perimeter of the cage that found the twines to cut. Dartmouth's lead to one. Then~ with only 59 seconds remaining in the first period Jed Kanner came around from behind the net and· blasted an incredible left hand shot by a stunned Dartmouth goalie to tie the score. Dartmouth once again began; tb.e period ~s scoring as they jumped out to a 7-4 lead. The· Union team was not flustered, however, and- once again Jed Kanner vvas lt main ingredient in the comeback recipe. Job.n Thompson, Little T, scored at 9:36 on a bounce shot to cut the Big. Gree11's margin to two . Kanner QUt it to one at the 6:43 mark arid tied it three minutes later as he stole the ball from the Dartmouth . ·goalie and rolled it home. AI Greenburg and the Union defense closed out the half· with some excellent play, preventing- the· Dartmouth power play from scorin;g. Jed Kan.ner began the seconQ. half's scoring · by going around two Dartmouth defe11semen · behind the cage and putting it. home with his left. Dartmouth got it back a couple of 'minutes later on a power play in whiCh Union was two men down due to dumb pen.alties. The Big Green scored again two minutes later as Boltia sho()k off a good hit and put it in the snort side. At the 6:51 mark AI Greenburg made an incredible save, diving out of nowhere to .prevent a Dartmouth· goal.. Dart:mDutb. maintained their momentum, however, and scored to make it I 0-8 in their favor .. Once again the Dutchmen pulled' themselves together and began a comebacL At 3:40 Stu Napear - took a good pass from Little T - and picked the upper right comer to cut the lead to one. Just nine _seconds later Jed Kanner tied the game vvith a great move as he - spun and fired left-handed and low to close out the period's · scoring. The fourth period began With· Jed Kanner scoring on a hard left•handed' shot. Dartmouth tied the score at 14~08, but from this point on the Union team dominated the t1ow of the ~game. Jed Kanner hit Rich Romer with a good pass, and Rodeo put it home to put Union in the lead to stay. Little T then showed so~e fancy stick work- on a quick break, embarassing the Dartmouth goalie by rolling it into the cage. Ray Stecker was then set up.on a good clear by the Union defense to mak:e ~t 14-ll. Tile game's final two goals were scored by Little T on the break and Rich Romer picking up a rebound. The final score read Union 16, Dartmouth II and it was by far the most satisfying game of the season. for the team. Coach Reid and the players are eager.ly artticipat.ing next year as • Laxmen in action .. the team ended on such· . a successful note and . has many excellent players returning. The team loses John Thompson and Hank Fleming, bU:t the play of freshmen Neil Kanner, Brian Walck, and J. V; sta:r Greg Steiner -plus the return of a healthy Jed Kanner alld a more experienced . Stu Napear make it an excellent position i'or Union. . _. The mid-field loses captain Jim '.Thompson and Jim Felix, but !las freshmen Rob Sherman, Jim Boomgarden, aitd sophomore Doug Richardson itchjng for more playing time. The. return intact of. the first mid-field of Ray Stecker, Don Corcoran, and Rich .R()mer plus· varsity letter winners Ap.dy Prooks and Carl Walker lead one to believe that the . · position will be well-manned next season.· ·~ ·- The defense loses hard-hitting Bill Glavin and· captain John Ecklund but retains starters Ken Beck, Bob Schick,' and will be bolstered by the return. of a healthy Pete Karmen. Coach Reid will have to find some speed and depth. at this position next season. ln the· nets once ag<,tiil will be Alan Greenburg, backed Up by Randy Feldman. Al proved _ himself' to be 11- fine goalie over the· course of this season and there should be no goal tending problem next year. Union ended the season witl! a six game winning streak to make their record 8 up,. and 4 down. The four losses came . in a two week ·period in which the Union team was hit with · injuries and an exhaus.ting schedule. The prospects for an u!').dcf~at~d season next year are very reahsttc.

f f 5 it a to ~e of ilt s. Jd lli ty ISS to ~d of ISS Is. all to Bonner Gets DoW\n on theJ Student Body by jonathan a. kur.z With the Board of Trustees' resounding vote of confidence for President Bonnet still ringing in our ears, it would be interesting to catch a glimpse of what might · be in store for us in the upcoming year. Such a glimpse can be found in a report delivered on April 16, 1977 to the Board by President Bonner concerning the .. Governance and Leadership at Union College.\ This report was not made public and was given to The Campus Voice by a source who wis.hes to remain anonymous. It · would seem that President Bonner thinks very little of the present governance . system at Union. He believes it to be one which is ineffective and has mistaken an advisory role for one of decision making. ''The current governance system at Union is uncertain in its authority, often divisive in its effect, ineffective in producing needed c};lange, and confuses. advisory and decision- making authority on campus.\ \As recently as the January board meeting, I stated, ' •.. the governance · system... seems to me h> sometimes confuse · involvement with authority and the responsibility to advise with the responsibility to decid~. Sometimes, my mind has returned to the ancient question: where everyone governs, does anyone· govern?\ · Bonner cites the Admissions Committee as one example of where the governance system has done more harm than good with its extensive powers. He feels \The professional role of the Admissions Director, unlike other professionals in tile field, is ambiguous at best and subject to changing criteria and prejudices of succeeding members Who lack professional experience in admissions work.\ The President goes as far as to blame the recent admissions violations on the problems of the governance structure. \The present situation in_ the Admissions Department is directly related to tb:e weakened position of the Admissions Director and the increasing pressures on him from widely conflicting views.\ In -Bonner's eyes, the confused and tumultuous state of affairs .thitt is now taking place 1 is the result of the inherent shortcomings of the system. The abundance of factions have produced a state of pluralistic mayhem. \If the College seems· paralyzed and unsettled... how Continued on Page 3 Speed Survey on Campus by pat gageant Do you speed? Do you find it nece:)sary to use speed to get your work done? is your social life lacking because you spend too much time doing papers and refuse to pull all-nighters? These questions all pertain to the daily life of some students here at Union. Too many students seem to categorize themselves into one of . three stereotypes. The first of these stereotypes is the student who attempts to keep up with his or her work load and have a· moderate social life. This student succeeds until finals week when all-nighters must be pulled because of papers that could not . be started until the ninth week, take home t1nals, and cumulative finals. This student may well be burdened with a Monday final, a Tuesdlty final and a paper due the following day, or any such predicament that hinders the achievement of a good cumulative index and makes tempting the use of speed. The second stereotype, the diligent student, works constantly and sacrifices his or her social life so that speed will not be necessary. This student starts studying for finals in the ninth week, so that he or she will not be forced to cram. The last stereotype is the student who has the fullest social Tde, and takes speed periodically in order to catch up with the delayed work load. Por this type of student, finals week is just another series of all-nighten, and the speed is already stocked and waiting .. These stereotypes, however, were disproved in a recent survey. A survey was taken whose purpose Was to reveal the role of speed in Union's academic life. A relatively large number of students (1 00) were chosen in a random sample that covered 21 of the 32 possible majors. The students were also chosen by class, one from each class for each major. These students were telephoned and asked three ,questions: I) The first question was whether or not the student had done speed, and if so, how frequently. 2) The reason for doing or not doing the speed was the second question, in order to find out if the speed was in fact used tor academic reasons; and whether or not negligence in his or her studies caused the student to use speed. 3) The final question was if the student felt that the work load could be handled with proper scheduling and if the social lite of the student would sutler from such scheduling. The results of the surVey are as follows: Continued on Page '3 Slip out the back, lack. Drop off the key, Lee. Make a new plan, Stan. There Must Be 5.0 Ways To Leave Union College Debbie Bluestone, Kate canfield, Audrey Carton, Laurie Cohen, Susan Draper, Roger Finck, Cary Gold, Laurie Graham, Morris Wallack, Cindy Solin, John Toomer, Clare Walken, Roy Wandelmaier, Vicky Dennis, Josh Salzman, Audrey Rothschild, Ed Metz, Steve Rubey ..... and more. These people were once members of Union's class of '78 and for some reason or another are no longer in Schenectady. l thought it would be interesting to check into a few people who transferred from Union and see why they left and if they think, they made the right move. When I first came up with this idea I thought it would be fun to hear people knock Union College and to give our divided campus something else to feel insecure about. The people I 'spoke .to knocked Union and they knocked Schenectady but· reassuringly enough, each of them . seemed to remember Union as worth their while in one way or another. 1 spoke to six people; one has already returned to Union and two are thinking of, coming back. I can't say I think most of the missing persons from the class of '78 would like to come back but 1 think these people help to illustrate the point that transferring, especially after two years, involves a lot of thought and indecision. The following are six people who discussed with me their reasons for getting out: SUSAN RICHMAN NORTHWESTERN UNIVERSITY \I felt limited at Union. Limit~ by the curriculum, by the student body and by the size ·Of Schenectady.\ Richman was in the process ·of cha11ging her major from political science to economics ,When she left Union last spring. She finds Northwestern's larger economic department more suitable to her need~; There is also a pragmatic eiement involved here as well. She's interested in banking, she's from the Chicago area; she wants to work in Chicago and Chicago banks actively recruit at Northwestern. The scorel Chicago 4, Schenectady 0. As fitr as the student body is by greg maya concerned she says, \Coming from Illinois, Union offered a new kind of person for me, i.e. a northeasterner, a New Yorker, but that's about it and after two years I was ready for something different. At Northwestern there are a lot of students from the south, from the mid-west, places like Kansas, Oklahoma, Nebraska, a lot of foreign students and a real minority population. Because of this kind of geographic distribution, however, you find a more conservative attitude than you find at Union.\ This conservative element is directly related to the social life at Northwestern. \Evanston is a dry city and the drinking age in bars is 21. You can buy beer and wine if you're 19 but this leaves a void in where one parties.\ Fraternities and sororities play THE major role in the life of a student at Northwestern. In this case Richman says she misses, \having a pub or a rathskeller to go to, to see most everyone you want to see whether they are fr~ternity brothers or not.\ For Richman however. it's not so bad; this is her home and she sees friends from high school and frequently visits friends at the University of Wisconsin on weekends. Also, the cultural and social advantages of Chicago are right next door for those who wish to indulge. Northwestern's tuition is one step ahead of Union's at the price of $4660 per school year. Not only that - N orthwestem is also ~m a trimester system but instead of three courses per term th.ey have four. Even worse, Northwestern's school year ends Jane 28. Somebody, somewhere, is getting out later than Union students! Sue Richman doesn ',t mind, however, and she's very happy with her decision to leave the capital District. \ln all fairness to Union~\ she made a point of postscripting. \1 never planned on going to <>ne school for all four years and . Union only fit my plans.\ • SUSAN FINKELSTEIN CORNELL UNIVERSITY Finkelstein came to Union as an English major and somewhere along the line she found Prof. S.ue Britan's child psych. course. \A large part of my decision for leaving Union was to major in . child psychology. Cornell has an extensive program and Union has one course.\ The other large part of Finkelstein's decision was based on Union's small size. She says of Cornell, \I'm very impressed with the diversity of the student body and the school in general.\ Added ·to div~;rsity she has found Cornell students, \very competent and I like that.\ Accord_ing to her report Cornell is a more goal orientated school, more pre-professional, but unlike Union, more people get out of the classroom and into a practical working experience situatiQn. \This however, is net necessarily the fault of the Union student in that the city of Ithaca revolves around Cornell and Ithaca College; Schenectady does not have the same relationship with Union. Field placements are much easier in Ithaca.\ Finkelstein was somewhat worried about Cornell's tremendous size. but she says, \The university is broken up into , , ' J, • Continued on Page 6

,, ! ' i Page 2 R. A . Selection Criteria Exposed by joe zolner, suzanne dowling, &i1d mark smith Perhaps one of the most talked about and misunderstood· selection procedures, year after year, is that one which takes place to determine RA's. This article will hopefully serve to inform the campus community and clear up many misconceptions surrounding the selection process. The selection committee is composed of all senior RA's who choose to participate and several senior non-RA's selected by RA's already on the selection committee. An attempt is made to represent as wide a cross--section of campus interests as possible. Planning and organization is done by the selc:ction coiOIIlittee with the aid of the Director of Housing during the winter term so that tne selection process may start immediately at the beginning pf spring term. The last two years have seen a l slight change in the evaluation of' applicants with the addition of a \group activity\ undertaken by each of the applicant subgroups. An exercise designed to generate group discussion on topics · relevant to the RA role is presented. This is in addition to the applicant and sponsor interviews, group parties and whatever other methods the selection committee may use to get to know the applicants. The 1 committee allows each applicant' the opportunity to present themselves in a setting of their 1 choice (formal, informal, group, I individual) hoping,_to make them' as comfortable and relaxed as. possible. The selection itself takes place over a three-day period and is divided into two sections. Fint, all continuing RA's are evaluated· and once that is completed, all new applicants are considered. For all applicants, only positive remarks are solicited. Negative: feedback may be included in discussions but is never requested. It is felt that an individual should be continued or originally selected on the basis of several desirable i qualities, not the absence ofl undesirable ones. It is realized I that negatives can be found for all I wllo apply but the potential for excellence in performance is the oveFriding factor throughout all deliberations. The process itself is a lengthy . one. The sheer length and complexity of that process necessitates the establishment of several .. ground rules .. before any work can be accomplished. First, the concept of mutual respect between members of :the selection committee is stressed. Differences of opinion inevitably occur but it is realized that all are working to do the best they can in the best interests of the process. Committee members must rely on the comments of othen in many cases to help them make de<:isions. Any attempts at \politics\ or having one's friends selected quickly prove futile since support from a large majority of the · committee is 11ecessary • for selection. ! In order to prevent · any ill, feelings amongst committee members, unanimous agreement must be reached for adjournment when all work is completed. Any single member of the committee has the ability to begin the process all over again if they fe.el any applicant did not receive fair evaluation. It should also be noted that at no time during the process is any administrative input allowed; the evaluation is made exclusively by peers. Any administrators present merely chair the meeting and make sure things run smoothly. At the conclusion, the need for confidentiality is discus,sed. The fact that confidentiality of' the llroceedings is widely maintained may help explain the large degree of misinformation and/or rumor that surrounds RA selection. As a result of this misinformation many conclude that the process may not be a good one. However, · each year the members of the selection committee are generally agreed that it is the most equitable means of selection and the process itself proves to be a valuable educational experience for them. Sorry, Charlie! Better luck next year. Union College Cam.,us Voice . May 25, .1977_ · 12 Point Grading System by ken wilsker The proposal for a twelve point time discriminating .between all grading system was shot down these grades, Prof. Wells two· years ago. It is my intention disagrees. He pointed aut that to again bring fortll this proposal, twelve points would allow him to' because 1 feel that it has some evaluate the stude;11ts more merits over the existing five point accurately instead of putting system of .gntdin~. everyone into only five different Two years age Dean Smith categories. He feels· that the same suggested this sys~m, ,An the hope proce<h,lres for discriminating that such a gtading·syst~Ql .. Wb9~~ l: .:.betw~el). 1\'$ and B's, such as class be instrument<!.! in helping faculty~.:· · ~tii~]patl~:i/t;ind work trends, e v a I u a t e s t ud e n t s m o r e could- t>e ,.,hse(i in discriminating accurately. But student opinion, .between A mil).nses and B plusses for the most part, was strongly as well. opposed to it. lt was feared that This system would benefit the this system would increase the many students Who seem to be competition for grades. Students always close to the A but end up felt that there was enough with a :o. 1f the profe11sor can give compe(ition and pressures for tllem aJt A, minus or a B plus this grades with a tive point system. wauld be a more accurate account Since there would be m.ore of their performance, as well as border lines, it was argued, there fa:iTCr to the student than a grade would be more arguments over . of B~ l:lowever, there is also the grades. Students would now be other argument: many times the cutting each others' throats tor A students up to an A from a B plus minuses and B plusses. ·Plus, some faculty and students used the argument that with the twelve average 11ndet our current system. Under these circumstances peo.ple will lose Q'ijt under a twelve point system. But overall 1 believe these special borderline cases in any system tend to even (>Ut after four year~. Unfortunately all ·Of the pros and cons of this issue are only speculation. In my opinion a twelve point system. will be an professor will be iq.clined to push improvement over the existing five point system. I hope that this issue ca11 be brought up again earJy n,~xt fall. The only way, we will lind out about all the speculation of this system .is to implement it. I'rn confident it Will improve our way of evalll!lting stUdents or, at the very least. it' cannot. do any worse than our e~istlng .grading system, and still leaves open the option to switch back after a trial period. point system it· would be harder for instructors to discriminate between each of the twelve grades. These .arguments carried · much weight, and as a result the C~llege Senate voted it down convincingly. To The Editors It has been over two years now since this proposal was rejected and I feel it's about time that this issue surfaced a~ain. The twelve point system could be the solution to an existing grading system that, in my estimation, is a poor one. As pointed out before, I feel this system will allow the professor to make a more accurate evaluation of his students. Prof. Wells (Hist.) feels tllat this system should be tried because he feels that he could grade his students more fairly and if an error is made there is less damage to be done because there is Jess at stake. (The difference between grades in the twelve point system is only .3). The argument that this system would increase arguments over grades, in my opinion, is unjustified. No matter what system is used there are always· borderline cases. But with the twelve point system if the person receives one grade lower than they think they deserved they are only losing .3 points on their GP A's, as opposed to LO points in the existing system. This might alleviate some of the arguments instead of increasing the amount of arguments over borderline grades. The argument that there will be increased competition caused by · the twelve point system is as yet unproven. However, I can~t see how competition for grades can be any worse than it is now. I would suspect then that the twelve point system yvould not increase competition any more · than now. This is a question 'that can't be answered until .this system has been tried. In response to the argument that professors will have a hat:der A little over two weeks ago an ugly incident took place in the pub tlt~!.t at the til'lle seemed like an is~lated event. The eK..editor·of Conecndy, Michael Rotundi, was hounded, abused, threatened, and physically pushed around until the Schenectady police were called in to break it ilp. The sad fact is that this harassment was cause<i by a number of the hockey piaye:rs. Armed with. sticks., bats, and clubs the hockey players waited for .Michael to leave the pub. Their reason for such action was given tllat .. he wrote wrong things about as in the paper.\ Michael has refused to talk about the incident~ and rightfully so; but other members of the Concordy staff, past and present, stated that th.is intimidation ip. the pub was not the first. Repeated threats from a number of ho<;key players on h.()W the editorials should be written occurred throughout winter term. Many times three or even four hockey players weni up to tlte Concordy office and tried to tell the editors and other writers how t<f write their editorials. Other incidents include garbage being dumped in front of Concordy staff rooms, people pushed ~Uollnd, and. more threats. _With the growing list of these ugly incidents one wonders why Concordy this term has not published articles about these incident~. The reason is simple ~nd disgusting~ The editors, mostly Freshmen, have been intinii.dated by a number of hockey players and are rightfully scared. As for the validity of these events ma!lY .of the staff-members refused to talk or even have their name printed for the exact reason tbat they refuse to print articles about .the hockey players: fear of violence. Although these incidents· have taken place on what can be called a. college campus they have also taken place off campus; it is. alleged that a number of hockey players were involved. Professor Kershner, who chaired the Athletic Task Force, had a number of windows broken on his house, a side of his house bashed in, and his little daughter scared half to death so that she finds it difficult to sleep. The ugliness of the incident cannot be better emphasized. The action taken against such acts has been little. A number of hockey players were fined for beating up a Union College. student but have so far refused to pay the tine; The action of the administration seems to be that of sitting back and waiting for someone to get hurt. The incidents listed here are just a few of the ever growing threats, attacks by a certain number of hockey players who see 'wrongs.' name withheld upon fear of reprisal The Library is Being Stolen Often times, students complain about the limited resources of the Union College library. It is quite obvious however, that even the materials that do exist are frequently hard to get hold ol. How many times has one been ecstatic when the book that is exactly what they are looking for. is listed in the card catalogue and then have run to the stacks only to find that the book. is not there. The occurrences of a situation such as this are not necessarily because these books are in great 1 demand; it seems to be rather by Iori walter the stealing that goes on. One of the major reasons that no security system has been considered this year is because of the unfortunate death of Or. Tolan, who had been the head librarian. He never wanted a security system, mainly because he felt that it was insulting to students and that it prevented the library from accomplishing its most important function - to have its books used· and circulating. Miss Evans added that a security system might also increase the mutilation that occurs as students who can! .. not take the books out will .iust acting head librarian, said that · the library staff is well aware of' than the hooks have vanished. However, they have not been discharged. A mystery? No, not at all. A typical and frequent result of the taJ<:ing of books from Schaffer. So, it seems that the problem could be easily resolved with the installation of a library security systel'n. Well. this remains to be seen. Miss Ruth Anne Evans, who is Colliinued ()n Page 6 fabian, jon STAFF: pat gageant, Iori walter, suzanne dowling, gregg maya, mark smith, ken wiBsker joe zolner, ira goodman, rich rubenstone, professor rudy nydigger, peter mandel, mike lynn, jan rosker; sue lightman, jobn tydings, andy zabronsky, :rnike ganz .amy perlin PHOTO STAFF: joe tauber, jay levy, bill malnick, Co.-.til1 could it tively e sotne di! gross. el thrown academic ef jarisdi gationof \OUr Union~ activism d~fines responsH This poi1 Now we become jn oolleg' illtend til and the vestigal purpose sentimell guarante any wei1 B Ollll proclaim leadersh clear.ly a govern a widespn: an indic for us i1 The p may ne( it does 1 renun\i< governit attributt plagu~ go verna oversirn. at hand out of 1 Whell Union, neglecte great sc between ~dminis derries situatio' most ei would l to mm despotic and be; then widespi dissent Woody Now the Bo: Bonner confide govern: the Fo1 pass c permar would body leaders UJ llock h.as some is. If ' . a pa wou! forrr. bee a repr~ T1 at s\ any To~ this actic whe A the awa righ inte~ that pres

e g May ~5, 1977 . Union College Campus Voice Page 3 Bonner Blasts Speed· Survey Continued from Page I Co.-.tinued from P~ge l could it seem otherWise? Rela- tively easy c:ollege problems, some distorted by em.dtion and gross exaggeration, are being thrown into a cauldron of academic politics, counter..claims ef jU:risdiction, and no clear dele- gation of authoritY.\ CHART A - MAJORS % of students using speed \Our .governance system at Union ~ a response to student ac~ivistn a :half'..,dozen years ago ~ defines neither authority or responsil;>ility at Union College.\ This point is made clear enough. Now we m.ust question what is to becorne of campus participation in college decisions, Does IJonrter intend that the AU-College Senate and the Student :Fortim become vestigal ;organs whose sole purpose is to voic¢ campus sentiment'! And then what is to guarantee that such feeljngs .carry any weight at all'! CHART B - CLASS CHART C.- STUDENTS WHO USE SPEED Bonner con,c.ludes by proclaiming that \my concept of leadership and accountability ... is clear.ly at odds with th.e cr~eping governance bureaucracy · so widespread at t~i!l college.,.;. Is thi~ an indication .of what portends for us in the future'! The present governance system may need many refinem~nts, but it does not warrant the complete renun\iation of _ camp U!> g()vetning power. .Further, to attribute all the dilemmas that plague Union to a faulty governaoce sys_teril is a gross oversimplification of the probl~m at hand and creates a scapegoat out of the structure itself: When speaking of leadership at Union, President Bonner has neglected to make mention of the great schism that has taken place between the faculty and the administration. Either-this -or he denies its existence. With the situation such as it is, even the most efficient governance system would be hampered. Or, if'we are to move in the direction of a despotic reign, (an enlightened and benevolent one I'm sure); then there would still be widespread commentary and dissent on campus (or what Woody Allen calls dysentery). Now we must wonder whether the Board's vote of confidence in Bonner also means a vote of confidence in his views on governance. If this is the case then the Forum and the Senate should pass one final resolution - permanent adjournment. This would be followed by a student body withdrawaL. now that's leadership!! Spe.ed ' I Continued from Page 1 As one can see from Chatt A, the largest amount of the students who find it necessary to .take speed are in most cases those with majors involving paper-writing, such as English, History, Humanities, Philosophy and Political Science. In most cases, the student spoken to llad been negligent and started· their papeEs shor:tly before they were due. The 1 more quantitative majots, such as Engineering and Math involved the least amount of students using speed. It is obvious that as majors became more analytical· rather tha.n quantitative, the number of students using speed increased. The reason the students gave for Up until recently, the entire controversy concerning llockey has rema-ined within civilized limits. Granted, it b.as pushed these limits to their utmost extremes, but some ~est:raint has been exercised - up until now that is. lf any person were physically harassed or accosted by a particular group simply because of his views, then we would be enraged. But, the fact that this person is a former editor of Concordiensis and was petsecuted because of his stands, then it is a thousand times more reprehensible. The editorial board of The Campus Voice is outraged at such behavior and is further infuriated at the lack of any significant action in response to these occurrences. To add insult to injury, it is alleged that two meJ,nbers of this group who were fined for similar in~imidating actions have refused to pay their fines. There is question whether any thing short of court action can be done. As a paper, we owe our existence to the freedom. of the press, As an investigative paper, we are acutely aware of this. The history of these freedoms -. these rights - need not be cited. What must be realized is the integral role a newspaper plays and the essential criteria that it be able to report the news without outside pressure. Ul ill t'l w m tU ,; ..-f u 0 ~ s,. 0 0 •.-I o,.f s:: s:: ::s. Q) \? Cl) this is that one can easily stay up all night to write a paper, bnt to stay up all night to study for a test and retain what is learned is close to impossible. Chart D shows that the frequency in using speed increased in accordance with class rank. The underclassmen, Freshmen and Sophomores, rarely use speed, and said that they found that with proper scheduling they could get their work done on time and still have a more than adequate social life. Some of them did stay up all night, but _not with such \artificial\ means, and these necessary all--nighters were rare. Chart C visually shows that the work load is not too large here at Union, but in fact the problem fac.ed by most of the students is student-created. That is, the majority of students who use speed do it not because the work load is too large, but rather because they leave their work until the last minute in order to have the fullest social life possible. Some students, exactly CJ) (I) (.) 0 S::+' •ri :og t::• r-i Q) cd •ri ~ '0 •ri r-iCD cd () ~+' I (.) 0 (l)CIJ <t ro z ........ 3%, use speed to enhance their social lives, because they have spent all ·Of their daytime hours doing homework. Implications For me, this survey has destroyed many preset convictions about the caliber and pressure of academic life at Union. I too had fit myself ililo one of the three stereotypes (the third) and assumed it was impossible to have an adequate social life and get my work done on time, and resorted to regular all-nighters. It appears to me that the incoming classe11 have found the happy medium that others have not · had the self-control to achieve. They (the Freshmen and Sophomores) have been successful in getting everything done on time academically, in doing well in college, and in having an enjoyable social life. It is quite difficult to decipher how these students have been able to reap all these benefits during their undergraduate years without losing any sleep over it while others haven't. Lack of self- control could be one reason. Another possible reason could be that these students are turning away from the drug-oriented world that was initiated in the '60's. In other words, this could be simply a new trend, as culturally specific and rebellious as the '60's. Still another reason could be that the underclassmen have put more importance on education than we upperclassmen have; that . is, it could be that coUege to upperclassmen is merely a stepping stone to graduate school. They could feel that social life, or .. well-roundedness\ is of high importance, and speed only as a means to get those grades that will permit them to get into graduate school. After all, it has been proven that retention is low in the cases of cramming, and there are tew other reasons to do it anyway besides lack of self- discipline or a strong desire to have the fullest possible social lite, which may be detrimental to one's health. Fact: ~t ~as been estimated that 15% or more of Union students are on financial nid.

,;,'· '! ' ' Page 4 Union College Campus V oi~e May 25, 1977 M~y 25,1 An Exclusive: An Door and a CV: Y ou'\e been wtder attack up. If you had to decide the past few weeks from many something you just check it students constituting out with someone else and something like a war going on then come back and do it between you and the students. rather than doing things on How do you feel about that your own. So that if they and why do you think that cQme to you maybe they this situation !las arisen? thought that you were not the Ms. Dowling: l don't kno.w person to come to anymore. whether 1 would call it a war; I'm Ms. Dowling: You mean they not sure what you would call it. think that it is someone else's CV: Well, there were certain ideas and that I'm just doing it? things such as being burnt in · CV: Yes,. it is like a puppet in · effigy... that type of sense tl)at you Ms. Dowling: Much of it, I think, · weren't acting out just your is personal and I don't think ideas. that's fair at all. Ms. Dowling: Well, that's not CV: Why is it personal? really entirely true. There are Ms. Dowling: In some of the . people who are above me, say . conversations I've had with Dean Smith, who support the people they have attacked me as a idea, but this (?) is something th~t person, me, you know, Suzanne has gone through committee and Dowling not me Director of it's a problem that we've been Housing. Some of the names used aware of. One· of the Housing to refer to me, I think, are very Committee members is an RA on personal and I object to that. I, in Lenox Road and that's really no way, object to anything that what's at issue - who's going to people take issue with about what live on Lenox Road and the I do for my job. But I don't feel decision was that it shouldn't be that it's fair to attack me and in freshmen, for all the arguments some cases, not all, certainly not that upperclassmen were using to all, some people have been very say, \I don't want to live there,\ diplomatic and very tactful and or for at least some of the very effective in behaving that arguments that they're U!>ing and way. Those people who have nGt those are the strongest arguments been taking issues with issues to remove freshmen from Lenox have. discredited themselves and Road. It's not someone saying, thus weakened their arguments so _ \Do this,\ and haqding it down. it is only those poeple that I think It's sort of what's in the best really feel there is any kind of a interest of the incoming class and war and that's not even fair. . the college as a whole, wh~ch, as . Some of it, some of what's g 0 ne you go through your four years on is undoubtedly a lack of here you have to start somewhere information. Many of those in making things good. people who have be~n most upset Unfortunately, the class of '80 is have never spoken to me or asked not reaping those benefits, but any questions. They have gone they will in their junior and senior directly to other ·offices to plead . years. their cases. CV: How does this compare CV: Mainly Dean of Students . With other .schools in terms of office? who gets preferential Ms. Dowling: Well, and the treatm·ent, freshmen or President's office, mainly; a lot of , 8 ophomores? seniors are encouraged to move o.f'f-campus and in some places they are told, \When your senior year arrives, you only get space if it is available,\ and 1 .guess that is based on the argument that the older you get the better you are able to fend .for yourself no matter where you are; and that the younger you are, at the beginning of your college career, you need a lot more attention. You need more privileges because it'll help you grow, give you a nice safe environment in which to do your personal learning and your academic work. CV: Couldn't some type of· halfway point be found, maybe something like ... Ms. Dowling: A quota system where so many seniors get preferred housing, so many juniors, so many sophomores, so many freshmen:! CV: That's one thing I hadn't thought of. I had thought of something where, maybe keeping the old part of where D U was and where the Davidson Co-op was, which opens up about 30 spots •. Couldn't something in lines with that be done instead of putting the new fraternities down there? Ms. Dowling: Well, there is only one new fraternity, you know, just so we get the numbers straight, one reinstated fraternity and two new sororities, okay. Now, the college has a long- standing history, in my view, of what I see as the college's stand with fraternities and it is exemplified by all of the contracts that are now outstanding for the fraternities; that they are housed on campus and this institution being the mother or the father, whichever gender parent you want to refer to the institution as, of enjoying fraternity living, fraternity activities on campus, of fostering those institutions as part of our own so to have gone against that without consulting with those people who would be above me, as well as the students, would certainly be the wrong thing to do. The 30 spaces, you know, that's a lot to some people and not very many to· some people. I~ does reduce options, there is no way of getting around that. But I don't think that it reduces options to the extent that it would have made enough people happy because there would still be people who wouldn't get a suite, who wouldn't get their first choice. So it is a mid-way point and I guess it is debatable whether it would suit enough people to make that action worthwhile. You would, at the sarne time, be making 30 people from fraternities or sororities angry. CV: Is there a back-up plan if this doesn't work? Ms. Dowling: Uh, you mean move juniors to Lenox Road and see if they're happy or seniors to Lenox Road to see if they're hat>pier? I think what We have to do next year is really work on the image of Lenox Road. lf that's what's at issue - that Lenox Road is a terrible place to live, 1 places but here. I'm not sure Ms. Dowling: 1 can't tell you where else they've gone, I'm sure ' about most other schools, but I · some people have gone to the ; 'can tell you about some other Provost. schools.. okay? Wherever there is think that we have to get a lot of . people involved .in making it better. lf may mean in the long ~n some expensive money to ... CV: I ran into a lot of people a lottery that works like ours who felt that the decisions that does, the sophomores are the · you've made were not really people who get it and l couldn't · tell you names of schools that are 1 your decbions but actually • like this but there are others. Now · someone else's decisions that in some schools, it works exactly · you were making and that... the opposite way. You get Ms. Dowling: What do you rnean ' preference as an incoming by someone else's? I freshman, a little bit . mote as a , sophomore, and then it starts ' C V : S o m e 0 t be r · decJeasing by , availability of administrator, some 'higher• . space. In · some schoolS', · the CV: It might mean redoing some of the dorms, making them newer? Mx. DowUng: Well, yeah, making them .newer, but, look at all of our dormitories; there is not a great deal of money spetit on· students in their life outside of academjc,s. th~t.'s j1:1st not what happens. · Look · af the· ·capital' budget for dormitories which was reduced. from $70,000 to $10,000 this year. That just doesn't reflect much concern for the quality of life outside of the classroom! · C,Y': Is there anytldng that you can do . about that? Ms. Dowling: Well, l can rally support. I mean, I can work with students to outline priorities. There was a 3-year plan, I guess Y<>U'd call it some long range planning, done by ·oebbie Kilgus with the help of the Housing Committee to outline priorities and that's where the budget came from. This year it was 70, for next year 10; it was supposed to be 55, lll).d the next year is 60 capital expenses for dorms to do some improvement to assure that there would be maintenance of the donnitories so that they woqld be nice places to live in and not deteriorate. But with $10~000 you can't keep that up. That's about enough to buy mattresses for a dormitory. What if s~;nnething comes up where the students feel, ''Hey, we need a really nice lounge, we want to have this, or we'd like to have some improvements done in Hickock House or wherever students feel there is a need. There is not mon~y · right nowtbr it.. There is not money for, uh, people have suggested a snack bar on Lenox Road, something that would draw people up there, some kind of unusual eating place. Someone else suggested a bowling alley; something different up there that would make it really interesting to draw people up there. There is rio money right now for that. It doesn't mean it can't happen; it means we've got to use a better plan to find some money or we have to be incredibly innovative with what we have now. CV: People find it very hard to believe that there is no money available for a .lot of . Ms. Dowling: I don't think that it happened as many times as... l was watching, Yo\1. certainly ~an~t stop p~;:ople ttom dotng that anyway, it would be very difficult. l.f you're saying that the system ~iicouraged people tn cheat, J just don't buy that. People are going to cheat no matter what the system is if they want to cheat, if that is their inclination. CV: Just a simple ·thing, wouldn't it have been a lot easier, if they could not haYe been able to look or to pick two numbers? If, for example, the bag was on a shelf\' or something where they didn;t have easy access to it? I believe it was the single's lottery, I'm not positive, but there was an instance · where people on Une pulled consecutive numbqs. The odds of that are quite low, the idea is that the bags were not even mixed. Ms, Dowling: They were mixed. CV: It was a case where numbers 20-28 picked going on down the line. At this point .Ms. Dowling showed me the records of the lottery in question and my supposition was pro\'en to be wrong. I therefore withdraw my statement that the bags were riot mixed well enough. CV: This is something I think I started to ask before, I'm really not sure. There is a feeling that there has been a split in the administration, I don't mean in terms of top administrators, but ra\ther that there are different sides that are not helping each other out. Ms. Dowling: In regards to what issue? things on the basis of the CV: Specifically in regards to amount of money each of us Housing if there has been put into the school, whether it anything like that. I don't is $5000 or. $6.000 a year. know what other offices you When you speak to parents need to interact with or and you explain to them that whether you've been able to. the school is not going to Ms. Dowling: Well, I think that repaint the dorm this year or I've gotten a lot of help, people do some other needed upkeep, have been available to me. You they find it hard to believe. can't get around the fact that there certainly has been s6me Ms. Dowling: Well, you have to tension and people have been look at where the money goes, It preoccupied; but they haven't is my understanding, and I have a been unavailable; they haven't lot to learn about budgetary been unwilling to help. Maybe it matters at Union College, that a would help me if I knew where lot of it goes to salaries; it has to. the split is. Then, the Planning and Priorities Committee sets up their priorities CV: It's almost the bit where for campus spending. . !1i' many people want to leave CV: When you'\e had 3ny because of the ten_!Jion, many pro~lems, something that you secretaries looking for and weren't able to find fmding new jobs and that, as a information, were you able to result of the uncertainty of go to other Administrators, whether certain Deans wiil be such as Debbie Kilgus, to find here, whether other people are things, such as how to run the going to be here, people are lottery or whQ.t problems she not helping each other out ran into last year, because I because they don't want to noticed this year in the picking pull for one side or the other. of the numbers, that tbe paper They don't want to be bag was on a desk so if you involved with someone in one were smart, you could look office because that office has into the bag and see the been tainted and they would numbers... rather stay away, things like Ms. Dowling: You couldn't see all that, the nt.tmbers, L. CV: Well, if you looked on top you could see various low numbers, you could see 16, 17, 18 sitting on top and this happened in many instances, or things would happen where someone could pull out two numbers and then drop the worst number, there seemed to Ms. Dowling: Oh, well I'm not aware of that; it could he true somewhere else. I spend most of my time in Old Gym Hall and I'm not aware of that happening here. If it's happened between other offices, I don't know of it and I would not venture a guess. All I can say is that·l know there have been tensions but I'm not sure whether they're between other offices,. I think it's a tension in to help it's jt \1 don't k.n< rrn. afraid because l where, wh staying,\ jm don't think between adrninistrati not knowi1 because rna ·we hear me ·from the ri near it · organizatiol of contact l the Dean between th office ar1 Admissions else you're sounds a b CV: I wa~ . were prol . office am you need are not w Ms. Dowli more of administra1 some vaf;l vacancies I of a problt are here h CV: The that cam1 ago, who behind responsib freshm: (DAVID~ Davidso11 South WJ years ag< M.s. Dowl all freshm know wt right'! Th the Direc Shupe, N discussed a good d, period of was out, convince is, in par1 because i people h~ the camp know it's you sho somethin1 of the < numbers you like 1 you have let's use With 48( that has male. y, women dormito·r and ma1 have m1 educatiol that you anyway~ situation big we process < Richmor fresh mar away c' kitchens, you'd be of woine pretty m reduce 1 the opti< so we s would educatio would attractiv ed bec111 for co-« demand there is North t men toe all-worn got to quality somethi · be ·no control .~v~t •• ~ , , , general, it's not an unwillingness · · · with. t

M~y 25, 1977 Union CoUe&e Campus Voice Page 5 . a Half ~ith Suzanne DowlinJC it I just the t, if ot I he he ng be my a a ' I bat to or it ave a of be are aJe out to be one has like not of I'm I 1 in CV: How do you enforce thern? of your predecessor, then why have you changed it, if you have? to help it's just sort of a feeling of, \l don't k,n,ow what's happening, rrn afraid to voice an o,pinion because 1 don't know who's where, who's leaving, who's staying,\ just a general tension. l that women have that nice a aortn and men don't. l guess tb~t it was renovated and it was renovated because it was just a trap, a disaster and wasn't open for a while. No other dorm has had that extensive of a renovation; maybe no dorm is quite as nice as North. This objection I can und'erstand. What was another small dormitory that could be used for all women, tbat was near the center of the campus for security reasons, is South - · that's why that one was proposed,. Ms. Dowling: You enforce them with the use of RAs. Maybe you have more RAs than we currently have in a dormitory like that. You discourage it by helping find Ms, Dowlillg:l haven't changed it. · don't think it's an antagonism between offices in the administration., I think it's just not knowing where we stand 'because many of us, you know, we hear most of the information from the news media before we hear it within our own organization. There is a great deal · of contact between my office and the Dean of Students office, between the Oean of Students office and the bean of Admissions . I'm not $ure what else you're referring to, i'm sure it sounds a bit parochial... CV: I was wondering if tbere were problems between this office and other offices that · you need to work with that · are not Willing to work •.. Ms. Dowling: I wish that we had more of the spots in the administration filled in. There are some vacancies in it and the vacancies have caused a little bit of a problem, but the people who are here haven't. CV: The Housing Proposal that came out a. few months ago, whose ideas were really behind that, who was responsible for having an all freshman m.ale dorm (DAVIDSON) in light of the Davidson-North, Davidson- South w.ars that went on two years ago? Ms. Dowling: If there's interest in all freshman housing, you want to know where that came from, right'! That was something that the Director of Admissions, Jay Shupe, Mark Smith and myself discussed and there is merit to it, a g~od deal of merit to it. ln a period of time that the proposal was out, we were unable to convince enough people and that is, in part, why we had to table it because if it's going to go, the people have to see merit in it; if the campus is against it, then you know it's not going to work and you shou~dn't . go ahead with something like that. Now the use of the dormitories is purely a numbers game; okay and would you like me to explain that? Now, you have an incom_ing cl~ss of let's use a round figure of 500 with 480 resident. Historically, that has been 180 female and 300 male. You have to hav.e, for women and men, · single-sex dormitories because those people and many times their parents, have moral objections to co- educational living so there's two· that you go ahead with right away anyway. Then you have a coed situation. You don't need a very big women's dormitory. By process of elimination, if y()u use Richmond as an all-female freshnian dormitory, you take away cooking facilities, seven kitchens, for upperclassmen and you'd be housing your entire class of wotnen freshmen in one donn, pretty much. That would certainly reduce their options and reduce the options for the upperclassmen so we suggested that Richmond would be a qlUch better co- · other outlets for that kind of energy if that's all it amounts to. I would need some help to find ways to do that because that's not entirely a Housing problem, it's a Student Life probl~m. in ·spite of its small cap~;tcity~ CV: What about Davidson? Ms. 'Dowling: If you .go with West as a·freshman dormitery for co~d living and it is well suited for that, then you bave still about 200 freshman men to house. Where are you going to house them if you are going to have all- freshmen housing besides Fox br .Davidson which are the largest dormitories we have? Oth~rwise you'd be taking up other dormitories from upperclassmen, so it seemed appropriate to take one of those two. Fox has historically been preferred by upperclassmen. There are more upperclassmen in Fox. than DaVidson and it was one or the other, so Davidson was picked. CV: Is anything going to be done NOW about problems going on in Davidson? There are · doors being broken, windows being broken; there is glass throughout the entire courtyard; there was a televisjon thrown out of a thitd•floor window last night into the courtyard. Now, whafs being done about THAT .•• CV: Are · you familiar with those wars that went on? In light of th~t you would . still recommend to have .it as all freshman male dorm? Ms. Dowling: There are a ceuple of points that can be made about that. That was a mixture of upperclassmen and frel!hmen so who's to say where the impetus came for those wars'! Was it upperclassmen eggin.g the · freshmen on because ... CV: Well it was mainly freshmen in Davidson two years ago and, it just seemed to be freshmen guys yelling all night long across the courtyard where as upperclassmen were trying to get out of the place, wanted to leave, or wanted not to be around late at night. I was a freshman there at the time and most of my friends remember them and we stayed because we liked the dorm, the physical · structure and as freshmen we were not going to leave and start moving around campus because we were new at the pla6:e. So we decided to sit with it for a while. I I wouldn't want to see it happen again. I don't see any advantage to the wars. I don't ' see it as a healthy outlet as some people do. Ms. Dowling: I'm not sure that we have to have them again, that these w:;trs are necessary. Ms. Dowljng: That's the first I've heard about that... CV: I realize that because it happened btst night but there is glass in the courtyard ·so that you t:an't play volley\Jall there; you can't walk around the courtyard. Ms. Dowling: That's also the first that I've heard about that. I do know that there was a lot of destrticti()n over the weekend, but I hadn't beard ... CV:. Oh, there's been glass in the courtyard · for a while, at least since the beginning of this term in particular. Something has got to be done about that. Ms. Dowling: I'm ·dumbfounded that I didn~t know about that ... CV: I'm surprised that the RAs haven't mentioned anything about it. A discussion about RAs and their roles as enforcers of regulations as well as .being your Jriend followed here and has been deleted for reasons of lack of ~pace. This deletion doesn't alter the color, meaning, or context of this interview. , educational dorm because it would probably be more attractive to people if it were co- ed because there is a big demand for co-ed living at Union. The demand for North is incredible, there is always a demand for North by women. There is from men too, but you have to have all all-women's dormitory and it has got to be somewhere and the quality of the dormitory is something that .people take issue with. They don't feel t~at it's fair CV: They weren't necessary. I don't believe that it was the class of '78 that was more .rambunctious than the class of '81 is going to be. 1 don't see the effect of upperclassmen because they wanted no part of them and they took little part in them. Ms. Dowling: If you acknowledge beforehand that that kind of behavior is going to be exhibited and you assume that there is no' way of stopping it, then we're in. trouble. There are ways of . discouraging that type of behavior. CV: For example? Ms. Dowling: For example, first you forewarn .people tb,at that kind of behavior is going to have consequences .. ' ' \' .. CV: I beline that there is a rule in Housing that if you sign a contract, it is for the full year. What exactly is the policy about letting someone out of their contract? Let;s say that someone has been on campus Fall and Winter term and wants to move off campus for Spring term. What's your policy about this and if this is any ditferer~t from the . pollcy ' . ' It·,,. Anyone who wants to break a room contract is done on an individual basis~ lf we need the space, it is done very easily. lf it leaves a lot of spaces open, then there have to be very good reasons, financial reasons that are backed up. Someone coming in here and saying that \I can't live on campus,. 1 just can't afford it anymore,\ well, you know, I don't disbelieve it, but l am going to .. check it out with Joe Maras in financial aid and ask if that person has come to him and talked to him about financial pr()blems. If a student wants to move to their family's home and they live nearby then I don't have any objections to that as long as i understand the reason;. It's done very much on an individual basis. There's no set policy. It's done much like when a student withdraws fot whatever reason; there is some type ·Of penalty; there are some rules. Evei:yone is an indiVidual when it comes to the decision of deciding where they want to li¥e, on campus or not. Let's say that someone is being tortured by their rommate andthey don't kpow what to do. Then getting out of a room , contract could help them and I'm happy to do it, if there is no place else for them to live on campus and that has happened twice this year. So, it really depends on the situation. CV: This is the end of your first year ... Ms. Dowling: Almost the end of it ... CV: What else do you do, now that the lottery is over? Ms. Dowling: Well, we have to get next year's RAs acquainted_ with this year's RAs, what type of improvemen.ts can be made in the RA system. Then we have the routine of dorm checks, we have freshman room assignments, you have planning. I've got a lot to learn about the institution, I need some time to do some of that ... , there is some planning to be done. I haven't been able to go through the dorm rooms because I came here midstream and I don't have access to the rooms while students are living in them. I'd like to ·see those Annex· rooms that people are talking about that are so wonderful. I want to see, when people have all their things removed, I want to see the condition of the dormitory without any people in there so I can make any recommendations, so l can do some planning and work on what Debbie Kilgus had done in the past. She has some permanent records about where the improvements need to be made and at about what time. I'm going to be doing a lot of studying this summer, a lot of that type of work. There will be a summer H olising Director because the summer Housing program is not a part of the regular system. ru take a month's vacation. The other tw() months l will be doing freshman roorn assignment filling in those spaces that open up due to attrition, etc. CV: How would you sum up your experiences the whole year .here? Ms. Dowling: Vivid, interesting, tiring, rewarding; all those catch words. l guess I would need more distance to really draw my conclusions, maybe around July l after people have been gone for about a week and a half or so. CV: What is your impression of the students? Most of the time you are directly involved with the students ••• • . Ms. -Dowling: l .'<lofi!t have bad feelin!ls towards the student boay. 1 can .. t say that l'm delighted with some ot the behavior tha:t I've seen. 1 think that they are a group of people _who are very involved, very sincere about the kinds of objections that they've made and then ,i have some reservation about g~;aduating students from Union College who are allowed to behave in the manner that some of them . have behaved anq get results from that. l think that that':i bad. I think that you can ust: your college experience to get results in some more dignified manner but then again, it's been a tough year, especially for students. The students have been on the bad end of the tension. ThaCs why we're here,. for students, that's why Union College is here. It has been a very rough :year. The political tension on campus has been incredible and 1 think that it accounts for some ~f the intensity of response about Housing. That\s my personal opinion. I'm not sure how many people would agree with me that this has been a very accessible thing to get mad about because everyone does have their own in:terest involved, they win or lose,. or they get what's good or what's bad. I'm not ending my first year with terribly bad feelings about people, as a matter of fact they are very positive. I saw a.n 180 degree change in behavior from a few nights before the freshman lottery to the night of the lottery. The people were very nice. l don't know where that carne from, that change, but it was delightful to see it. CV: How did you feel about the sit-in? Ms. Dowling: l wasn't there that night, 1 understand that. .. CV: Why was the lottery postp()ned that night? Ms. Dowling: Because we were afraid that there would be .physical injury between students, that those people with good numbers would try to cross the sit-in line and that people who were angry about what was going on might do something to harm them physically or emotionally. To be ostracized by your classmates can do more damage than physical damage. Physical damage you heal while some of the psychological stuff might not heal, and there's no need for that. Not as many sophomores are going to be on Lenox Road as the:y are afraid oL We historically have a large amount of transfers housed there which will take up the space as well as we have larger fraternities and sororities than in the past, so there isn't as much space on Lenox Road as they th()ughl. CV: Well, if there isn't room · down campus and there isn't roc1n on Lenox Road, then they will have to move off· cunpus, right? Ms. Dowling: Right, but there is attrition down campus from pe<Jple who signed up and don't take the rooms, things will open up. We will shortly have a list of incoming freshmen and there might be attrition from that, we don't knQW how many commuters · there will be so until September, it is hard to pin it down. l think : tllat it is going to work out to be · less distasteful than many people think, I hope so. Along with this year's final issue of the Campus Voice, we wou1d like to thank all of those Wh() have contributed to and ~upported us throughout the year. The new editorial board a11d staff have demonstrated great interest and enthusiasm, · O.ut we still need more involvement. .The.Campus Voice , .. . )

!· i. l Page 6, Virion Colleg-, Campus V <Jit:e Transfers Continued from Page 1 schools so it doesn't seem as huge as it could ~em. I haven't had any problems in handling a large school., Sizf.l, however, is not the only thing that makes people pee ill their pants when the word ·cornell' is mentioned. Cornell has an infamous reputation (at Union, anyway) for its workload, intense competition, nervous breakdowns and a campus. that includes a · gorge which is a regular hang-out for thQse who are into suicide. Sue Finkelstein has not found this and she rebuts, \Before J left, people kept warning me of how much of a pressor~ cooker I was headed for and it's just not true. Cornell is no more of a pressure cooker than Union or any other rep~table school I know. rm extremely administration major. In comparing student bodies he says, \It's like comparing a small town with a big town. A small town offers a more intimate type of life but a big town offers more in just about every other aspect. It's. more diverse here. There are. approximately 13,000 at· G.W, and only 2300 live on campus. The rest commute; they live off campus in apartments so the whole concept of schoQl is different. Y oa don't get completely soaked up by the school and I think that's important. For most people here, G.W. and D.C. oiler a .real independence.\ socia·l life is concerned, Rand mil;ises the school spirit at Union. .. The student body was, closer than it is here. The winters can get really drab; it's so cold and no one leaves their dorm. You rea:lly have to get involved in school activities to meet A LOI of people. 1 Jik.e having a spectrum of people to cb.oose from though. Union of course doesn't offer that. ln the end though, you don't end up with any more friends; you just h!lve the chance to meet more people.\ happy here.\ ELLEN LICHTI.G UNIVERSITY OF PENNSYLVANIA Ellen Lichtig prefaced her ' discussion with, ••t might be coming back.\ Lichtig left for comparison reasons. She's a psychology major and another reason for leaving was to lind an expanded curriculum of courses. .. University of Pennsylvania's psychology is not any better than Union's. Actually I've been somewhat disappQinted here. The psych. department is more experimentally orientated than I expected. My interests are mor.e clinical. l had to set up a number of independent studies and unlike Union th~ pro1'essors were unavailable and offered little help. I've learned to appreciate the availability of Union professors.\ As for the Union social life, Lichtig was unhappy there. .. Union is undiversified -too small. It annoyed me. I felt stilled. Type-casting seemed the nonn at Union and l began to feel negative about myself in that kind of environment. Penn offers more freedom because of its size. Unfortunately, it's not as diversitied as I thought it would be. There are a lot of New Yorkers and Long Islanders but because of its size there are larger minorities of others.\ Lichtig linds the students \professionally orientated and. there is a good amount ot pressure,\ but being a psychology major she doesn't feel it as mt1ch. She finds her new student body, \a bit more intellectual~ but not much more than Union's.\ In comparing Philadelphia with Schenectady she finds the attempt unt'air. Schenectady is a cultural void when placed against a major American city. On coming back to Union, Lichtig feels academically it will be better for her; socially she's apprehensive. \My transferring had to do with being in one place for two years and a need l felt to make sure that one place did not tell me who I was.\ Ellen Lichtig . ex pressed a fear many of us here at Union and· at any other college feel when she sc~ys, •• I'm frightened of not doing wllat I'm truly interested in, of not doing that which makes me happy.\ RAY TERRAFRANCA GEORGE WASHINGTON UNIVERSITY \I wanted some place that would be better for my motivation. As a freshman I got into the fraternity scene and I screwed off. I had 1.6 cume IllY tirst year and when sophomore year came around, I kind of said, •Hey; wait a minute. I don~t thi.nk I like this place.' My major motivation sophomore year seemed to be based on getting out.'' Terrafranca came as a pre- med. . to Union, changed to American Studies and now he finds himself settled as a business As for academics, T errafranca thinks, \The professors at Union were probably better and I gqess 1 miss that but 1 have come to the conclusion that l can learn just as much with or without the better professors. I'm at the point where I'll do. it on my own, I don~t need the strict structure.\ G.W. is on a semester system with five courses per semester and Terrafranca feels, .. You cover just· as mucli material. lt can be hard if you don't look at it correctly. There's a lot more bureaucracy to deal with at a larger school\ As far as pressure is concerned he says, \It's not as bad as Union, but as obvious anyway.\ Of the work he says, \It is not any harder nor is it any eal;iier to get A's down here.\ In terms of location, Terrafranca says, .. Yeah, I was down on Schenectady; it's a hole.\ Like Sue Richman he went back home to go to school. \l wantto work in D.C. 1 came. back because D.C. is a great city - why go away i'or four years and come back an outsider'!\ When asked if there was anything he missed at Union he said, \Sure I miss the fraternity.\ But overall, not much more than that. ROBERTA RAND UNIVERSITY OF VERMONT Birdie Rand left Union after only one year of school here. She was interested in radiologic technology and Union doesn't offer it as a major. She came as a biology major and she readily adds, ••But I was not pre-med. Union's intensity had a lot to do with my move. Out of the 200 bio majors in our class, at the start, there were about two or three who weren't pre-med. It was too competitive. I couldn't relax with those people.\ As far as the overall pressure and competition at UVM, Rand says, ••Pre-meds worry about their comes, there are people who throat; but a lot of people just don't worry as much about their grades. There are a lot of throats at Union and next to Union, U V M is a party school.\ UVM ·may be too much of a party school for her. She'~! beginning to teel there is a lack of challenge there ... lniti~lly UVM was fun, it was great, but the last two terms I've had a 4.0 and 1 haven't done anything.\ The classes according to Rand are \too large at UVM. I dislike' ,the impersonalization and the lack of real attention.\ She also feels that .. the professors ate not really as good as Union's. But people tell me,\ ~he .adds, .. that it's not fair to judge because outside my major I've only taken introductory courses .and the upper-level courses are more personal. Radiologic technol?gy is a small major at UVM, th1rty students, so there's not too much of a problem there.\ And she· says, \I've had second thoughts about my major as welL I don't know if I can see myself running around in a little white uniform for the rest of my life.\ As far as the student body and Rand also likes her new location~ ... Bilrlingtan is !1, real college town. There are four colleges here and the stores cater to our needs and there are college bars. There's plenty of skiing and hiking up here as well.\ Birdie Rand enrolled in a two- ye~r progmrn and this spring she graduates from UVM. She says she's thinking of coming back to Union to take a few course~t. ••Jn. the epd,\ she says, \when l left :I was down on Union ~nd 1 was down on myself. lt was psychologically a bad year. Perhaps I didn't give Union a chance~ You know, I .wap.ted to know how much greener the gra&s was on the other side. I wanted to compare. Now I feel rve grown a little. I think 1 can ha11dle Union now.. I'm not so worried about stupid things like what am I doing to do with the rest of my lite'!!\ llAVID MENDELSOHN JOHNS HOPKINS Dave Men«lelsohn is not ~ metrtber of the class of '78 but he's an interesting •case in that he transferred and came back. Mendelsohn is a physics major and he says; ''1 didn't think Johns Hopkins was better. I thought Union was j.ust as good. ym interested in research and for me, Union is better.\ But he says academics had little to do with his decision to ieave; ·he knew Union . had a .. good'' physics department. lle left, as it seems many do, for comparison reasons. He found the academic pressure to be worse and he found students' attitudes to be worse. \The aura of students at Hopkins i~. much difl'erent. They didn't deal with themselves. They looked at Hopkins as throwing away four years of their lives to become doctors or something. It was like •1 don't have time to deal with this or that personal problem - I llave bio to do!\' As far as diversity in the student body, Mendelsohn has decided, ··union students have sufficient diversity for my taste~ The typical personality here of any given student is comparable to any given stlldent of any East coast school. You'll find the Long islander or whatever type you pick at Union at just about any of these schools.\ Of Schenectady he says,_ \I didn't like Schenectady but Baltimore made Schenectady look great. Dave Mendelsohn had no hesitations about coming back but as he says, ••1 was indecisive about leaving; I decided around a week before Hopkins started their tall semester.\ As far as advice for others, he warns, ••Don't leave Union unless you're positive yo11 hate it there.\ administrative viewpoint So how does Union!s administration view transferring and the complaints transfers ·have about Union? As far as studemt diversity, Dean Smith feels, \We · have to build an admissiorts. program that will attract mote students from more places.\ Smith doesn't see , Unio11 attracting a more diverse student population through athlet~cs which seems, to me, to be a behef held by President Bonner ... No,\ says Smith, .. it has to be on Union's academic reputation; gimmicks don't work when you're looking for a high quality stt1dent.\ h~ discussing Union's present student body he says, ·~Too few people are her~ t<?: learn. Too many people are caught u,p with competition.. People view others as part of a. game, a .game that has only a few places at tbe t 0 p. The environment is not caring and .giving enough . here.\ Smith finds Union \heavily loaded in some areas (of·study) and neglected in othets.\ He thinks the school could use more undecided liberal arts majors and liberal arts majors. :in general to round out the student body. He t'inds the liberal arts majors more relaxed. As _far as why people leave, Smitb bas publicly recognized the reasons sta,ted by the six transfers in the above. interviews. But. he added that, \Many students here are going to school clos~ to h()tne and many get tired of this and want to move farther away.\ For the first time;. aceording to tbe Dean. students are citing · the sehool's politics as reason for leaving. \People are disillu:!!i()ned with what's b~en happening here.\ It must be noted however, that\' withdrawal forms are due by July lst an.d at tllis poin.t, Smith has been handed only eleven f'orms, As tar as the Black attritian is concemed, Smith feels that, \Union is · not an acceptant environment for Blacks. Part of this is, however, a by-product of Union .not being perceived as .an acceptant environment. Schenectady and the area .is not culturally satisfying:. and in racial terms can be seen as adversant.\ Because ·of this situation, Smith sees academic problems arising for Blacks .... llnl!appiness creates ' academic difficulty. Others here are more .secure in this environment.\ Putting it in stronger terms, Smith explains that, \Many Blacks perceive Union as a white racist situation and for good reasons. There is a problem, however, in that some Blacks come here with racist expectations and the problem arises when any little thing could be used as evidence.\ Ther;e is that defacto suggestion that Blacks are not accepted - there are practically none left in the class of '78., ~~ . DONNELL UNDERWOOD is Union's unofficial minority recruiter. He explain$ that Union .. does not have a minority recruitment plan; no money is allotted specitically for ~this kind of recruitment. Underwood doesn't see Union ever righting this problem partly because of Union's attitude and partly because of national trends. \Union missed the bandwagon back in the 60's :when most colleges made a big push in recruiting minorities.\ ln comparison with schools like Union (making a post-NESCAC comparison here), Underwood says, \Union does just about as poorly as you can ·do in terms of numbers.\ Underwood sees Union's minority population disappearing altogether. There are two reasons for this: first, national college applications are falling in terms of blacks and whites. Second, because Qf this fall, Union is now forced to compete with sch:ools it never had to compete with before (i.e., Brown, Dartmouth, instead of Hamilton, Colgate). ..Why should a· ,Black come to Union with its 2% minority population when he or she can go to Bat~s with a 5% minority population?\ CONCLUSlONS For those who choose to remain at Union and cope with its inadequacies, and find enough of what one wants here, there are · two rates. One is to sit back and let things take care of themselves (an overwhelmingly popular rate if not unsuccessful tactic) or one can try to -do something about it or at least on the most basic level, become informed~ Until something is done, however, there remain at least SO ways and reasons to leave Union College; and for Blacks, 51. Library Continued from Page· 2 rip out the pages ·Of chapters that · they need. Also, it will not stop the type of problems that take place within ·the library itself; e.g. • microfilm being hidden and books, ' magazines, and journals being put in the wrong spot so that no one ·but :the person who put the . material there will be abie to use it. ihe librarian stated that she · telt a lot of the · illegally discharged books. did coin~ back. However, . the~ last library inventory w~s done in the , summer .of 1915, so recent figures • on the amount of slippage as · op·posed to c.omplete .• disappearance were not available: · Union is not the oncy scho()l . that has .stealing from its library. SUNY Albany has c~;>unte;red this problem by in·staUing an · e1eQtronic detector security : system. : .Each b,ook has a metal strip down its ba~k th!lt can be discharged and. cliarged. When the book is taken lo the discharge desk, it is placed under a 111achine that, in a sen$e, deenergizes the ~trip .. If i~ is not put through this machin~. as , the .~ook passes· throi,1gh- thl! exit control in which an electrical fiel~ is set, a bell rings. At this .point, the . g'!lard who sits by the door stops the person and checks the books carried. If there is any discrepancy, the person must go back to the des.{{. This system is very expensive '(about 8-.12¢ per book to install the metal strip alone, not to mention the other machine involved or the upkeep) and is not fool-proof. Students have been known to pass the book above or below the field upon,exiting and also to remove or desensitize the strip before leaving. Skidmofe operates under this same system. The University of Rochester uses a visual check l.nethod. Two turnstiles were installed at the exit and before the student can pass, his books are inspected for those belonging to the library, then each library book is checked to insure that it has been discharged. This method .entails. the employment of two guards at the door for the hours that the .library remain& open. Of course, it .also is tar from perfect. It is not too hard to hide a book within a book, or in a big pocketbook, and if you get to be friends With the guard at the door, well... R.P.l. has no exit security system at alL The head librarian there said that there is no need for one as they have good cooperation from their students as ·tar as the taking of books. Their biggest problem is mutilation of books, and there is no security system that can remedy this. As for Schafler, nothing will be done until the neW head librarian . takes over and hopefully money will be set aside within the budget for the type of security desired. Obviously, each type of security has its disadvantages and (some one) always finds a way to beat every system that is invented. It seems that tbe installation of security will not provide .the answer to the problem of disappearing books. It is rather an attitude that prevails that mu~t AI ThE •sy·sre:rn at U n a large are om inions. I l own res~ Generally as comJ week term ~ system. I sh b.owever, tti; student, gra be altered~ the idea that it IS unnecessary. to check out a· book .... ,.,..,,M that can be stolen to i:!,void hassle and overdue .. payments or that tuition includes a free book evetY once in a while. If consideration for fellow stud.ents and researchers exists and the staff. • ·«uJune has good cooperation ftom ~II · who use the library, security wtll •unlort not be essential and the libratY will · become a more efficient resource center. As Miss Evans stated: it is not the library staff that can be held fully responsible for they ate not ripping \oil the boQks ~ we are , doing it to ourselves.

Professor Rudy Nydegger of Psychology the this bell the A NeW(OJller Looks At- The Trimester System any go is per strip by rudy v. nydegger the field Being new many organization with it th_e lQxury of being to make wise and judicious without having to the historical vel<>Pnlents that have led to the nt state of affairs. 1 have asked to comment on my ressions of the three-term system at Union, and find myself with a large number of opinions that are otlerect in this vein - I know neither .of the Two •\~muuallu~ nor deliberations that exit to the present sy~tem, but only pass, own response to it. those then Generally speaking, I have not as comfortable with the ten- to term as with the semester m. 1 should hasten to add, the •h''\'\'\\r, that as undergraduate the graduate student, and brary IPJrot~:ssc,r, prior to coming to Union I have only been involved with schools on the semester ~ystem. Thus, my feelings of IOJisco•mtort relate in part, at least, the fact that this is all new to for is is can There are, however, several · about the · three-term that seem to me to be somewhat ·disadvantageous. For one thing I spend a huge a_mount of time writing and gradin~ t.ex.ams and reading papers; l feel that l ha:ve less time for casual ......... ~ .. with students because· be the press to get evaluative terials p.resented and In Illy experience, of the most rewarding 1 have done is and I feel that l have not had as much time for this as l ~some have had in the past. beat It Further, students seem to of •n•w\'\c be taking exams or writing .the and many act as if they do of have time to learn anything rather they are too ; busy just must up. I have been struck by it is that students seem so book that they rarely ask for hassle material. On several that students have asked me evetY · a reference 'on a particular . of relevance, and announce and intention to read it next staff . when they have a bit m all time. If this is true it is will . ortunate. ln the same vein it · appears that students are hit · hard and fast by information a course that they do. not really time to process it, and may difficulty getting a general of the forest because they are wrapped up in counting the without breaks is a long, hard grind with little respite. It is nice to have short breaks during the course of a term, and I miss those. Now, after_ having made these observations, 1 suppose l am expected to o11tline a plan for changing the system, and arriving at a new order of things. Unfortunately, I cannot do this, for even in my brief stay here 1 have come to recognize some of the .realistic difficultie~ associated with such a change. lq. the first place, the term sy~tem is probably favored by many people who do not share my feelings, and have legitimate reasons for their own views. Secondly, such -a change would necessitate radically altering teaching assignments and course offerings. lt has been said to me that a semester system would require an increase in course load for professors, or the hiring of new faculty. This would only be true if each department otlered the same number of sections of each course as they do now. Personally, l feel that this would not bave to be so, but l must in all fairness say that if fewer sections were offered, then the average class size would have. to increase:\ Thus, We are faced with three difficult alternatives from ~hich to. choose: increase teaching loads; increase faculty size; or increase class size .. Another problem comes from the necessity to reorganize many of the administrative and support functions in the College if such a change were !llade. Scholastic calendars, athletic calendars, etc., are often made years in advance, and even if we decided to go back to a semest~r system tomorrow it would probably take years to lay the necessary _ groundwork to make such a transition. 1 am glad for the opportunity to have voiced my views. Perhaps sortie of you agree with me. If so, let me suggest that reasonable proposals for changes like 1 have described must be well thought out and thoroughly researched. The difficulties of transition may in fact outweigh the discomfort of status qu(), l\o detef!Uine this, careful and responsible studies should be made. I think it might be a good time to reass~ss our present system - not wtth the goal of changillg i~, but r~t~er with the intent of determmmg whether or not it is servin.g our needs in the best manner. the · ten-week ~ '.! term Union College Campus Voice Page 7 Extra Curricular Credit Now that elections are over and . committee decisions are .nearing, . it is time to evaluate the efforts put in by those students who are responsible for 'ninning our student government and activities and the minimal amount of recognition and credit they receive. lt is common knowledge that the students who are heads of student activities or bQ:ld government positions often have trouble keeping up with their schoolworlc. Thus, thejr grades sufter t><:tause they are interested enough · to contribute in non- academic ways to the campus community. Seif:.,gl&ltification for a job wen: done is. usually an insufficient reward for tl1e numerous responsibilities many students h;1ve. Si!Ilila.rly, being selected to be a Delphic is hardly a worthwhile rewan! .for ·the many hours of dedicated· work these students contribute. A proposal W~;S c>n~ sugested wnereby the students who were heavily ~ involved with stadent activities would receive course credit tor their work. Included in this proposal was· a clause that faculty and administration input would and could influence these activities. The proposal was rejected due to the possible involvement of people other than students in student activities. Student activities and· student government offer the only means for non-academic expression of students' desires and needs. Any, plan to eliminate this expression or to modity it with outside influences ·is not acceptable. Presently, Oberlin College has a five-yeal' program in which one :semester pet year is devoted to normal ' academic work and the other semester is devoted to work in student activities or student government. The program is successful but it cannot be considered feasible. for Union because in effect it creates a student activities major, something that this school could not accept. Another plan for academic credit suggests that a student in charge of an activity should write a term paper about his/her work and should receive a course credit using the term paper as the criterion for the grade. This is unacceptable beca11se it involves ·faculty subjectivity. It also places an additional 'burden on a position that in many cases already involves as mUch time as any academic course. Some schools offer a monetary reward for people involved With studerit activities. For example,. the student body president at SUC at Oneonta receives an $800 stipend al).d a free p!tone for his efforts. The newspaper editors at Hofstra University also get paid. This system is. unacceptable because the people who accept responsibility under such a system might be doing so for the wrong reason. Randy Meyers, program director for WR UC suggests that no credit be given to heads of activities or student government leaders. He says that,· ••this will insure that the people who get involved will be the most dedicated and will have no outside motive for doing the job.\ He suggests ·that instead of giving credit, the workload of those at the head of an activity should be divided to a greater extent. Problems with these ideas are that I) dedicated people should not sufl'er for their dedication. 2) if responsibilities are split to a significant extent it becomes difficult to get things accomplished due to the probability of getting a variance of opinions, and J) there is always o11e or two pe;tsons at ,the top who are ultimately responsi~le for the by ira goodman actions ot an organizatwn. . The most reasonable plan seems to be to otter passjfail Comp. Ed. (Gen. Ed.) credit to a head of a .student activity or a member of student government. The \grade\ can be determined by a panel of faculty . .No extra work should be asked of the individual involved since he( she is doing enough work already. Since it would be a panel (not an I individual faculty member) deciding on a pass J fail grade, this would eliminate much of the subjectivity that could potentially be involved. The mme intricate details ot the plan could be worked out at a later date, but it is important that the people who spend much .of their time making contributions to the campus community should receive some credit for their efforts. · I .' / I· { '\I , I ;~\ ~ rtl decide when you've earned an \A.\ Proposed Grade Review System ~by michael lynn and richard reubenstone Every college student at one time or another in his college career receives a grade which he feels does not reflect his actual performance in a course. Some students as well as faculty members have proposed the idea of a mote extensive grade review system, in the hope of improving student-faculty relations. As it stands n()W, the student has four ways of appealing his grade in a particular course. First, the student can go directly to the professor and discuss the matter with him. If he is still unsatisfied, he may directly appeal to the professor's chairman. Thirdly, be can appeal his case to Dean Smith (Dean of Students) and . finally he can talk to Dean Brownlee (Dean of Faculty). Do schools of comparable size and stature have more extensive grade review systems than Union? · We contacted Oea.n Winer, Dean of Students at Trinity College and Dean Morse, Dean of Faculty at . Colgate University. Neither of these schools have an extensive grade review system. Their process of grade review is markedly similar to Union's. What would the effects be of a Review Board on Grades on student-faculty relations? The initial impression from the student persp.ecti ve is that a Review Board on Grades would be beneficial. However, on closer inspection, it would seem that the Review Board would do more harm than good. In a few select jcases, such as when personality 1cont1icts exist between student and faculty or in the case of professional incompetency, the review board would be beneficial to students. But, taken as a whole, it would seem apparent that the Review Board would damage the personal relationship between students and faculty by undermining the authority of the prolessor. Appe'aling a grade is simple, but changing one is much more difficult. There are legitimate reasons for this. From a professor's viewpoint. the student seems to overrate himself in most cases. According to a professor in the History Department, .. Eight out of ten students who want their grades l::hanged have over- rated their performance in the course. How can a professor be expected to justity a grade given on a subjective test when he is constrained by a ditlerent setting and mood than present when he originally decided grades.,. Another consideration which · must be accounted for is the efl'ect of the proposed Board of Grades on tbe status of the junior faculty members. The junior faculty members are constantly harassed_ . and pressured by students to change grades. The prospect of a review board would place the junior faculty members in a precarious position. In effect, the junior faculty would be put on a pedestal, singled out and forced to justify the grades of hoards of harassing students. When weighing a decision atlecting a large group of people it does not make sense to pursue the philosophy of satisfying the minority who do have gripes about their grades, regardless of . the validity of their claims. It is imperative to strive for goals which are based on certain ideals which reflect the utmost consideration of the majority. Tbe rights of the minority must be considered to' some extent but this must be a secondary objective. In respect to the proposed review board on grades, we criticize the basis for such a proposal in that minority interests will be catered to at the expense of the student community as a whole. Above all, we conclude that a grade review board would ultimately stress more \cutthroat competition.\ As it stands now, students seem to place more of an emphasis on grades than on values, and so we · see this proposal as a turther step in the wrong direction.

.... • Page 8 Union College Campus Voice May 25, CoJ • OVI eporter c • ] by sue lightman and jan rosker recent de vel~ QUESTION: Do you feel all the controversy and conflict on camp has aff{: -:ted your experience here this year? a.atte Abrams .Freshman Yes, it's affected me but only like Watergate affected Americans; some more than others. As a freshman I'd say it's given me a clue as to whether everyone in my class is apathetic or not, and I feel for those that are having problems associated with it. Janiee Rugar Senior Yes. I've lost any high opinion· I could have held for the school, feel kind of disappointed and it makes me wonder just how much my college experience is worth. Pr'ofessor Enpneerinc Things have been shuffled aside that needed to be done. I get the feeling we're getting side- tracked. It has · had · a definite effect upon my morale and upon me dedication to the college. Cammy Lapetina Junior It's certainly affected my attitude towards the school. Although I still like Union, I've lost a tremendous amount of respect for people and nor just administrators, students too. I don't feel people here listen to what other people are saying. There's dishonesty involved and I've always thouiht! of Union as standing for more than that. JuDe Greifer Sophomore I don't think that it's· affected my basic happiness here as far as academics or social life is concerned. However, I have become very disillusioned with the governing system on campus. l'\\e discovered that the students don't have ·the say they are led to believe they have. What's also disillusioning is the students have geared their energies into opposing what's going on instead of working toward positive changes. Jaek Pitney Senior No, I've been too busy with my thesis. Mike Marrone Sophomore No, it hasn~t affected my · experience here. However, right ;now, I don't think I'd .recommend the school to. a prospective freshman, at least not until things settle down. Amy Juster Senior I feel affected to ~orne extent in that while I work in the Pub I always hear people talking about it. Although I think it's more an atmosphere or general feeling that I can't define. I feel a certain tenseness here that wasn't here in previous years. QUESTION· Will you be voting in Tuesday's election and what will you be looking for in a candidate in lieu of the ,role the student government has played this year? Joe Tauber Junior Yes, I am going to vote. 1 am· looking for people who I think honestly care about the issaes that concern the school, and I am looking for people who have demonstrated their involvement. Laurie Colllcan Sophomore Yes, I will vote. I am looking .. for someone that is not going to ' put up with the administration's · political nonsense. I think the l candidate should be sincere, , someone that is active and ~ someone that knows what is 1 · going on. Jay Lutzky Sophomore I do not think I will vote. The . candidates are all saying the same thing and basically they are not saying too much. They fail to realize that students have relatively little power. There are several offices for which no one is running which goes to show the apathy; it is all a joke. Mark Burnett Freshman Yes, I will vote for somebody who can relate to the administration and who .can · present themselves and the ideas of the students as well. I also looked a little bit for the ideas they had in their overall views of the basic goals of the school. Mark Snapper Freshman . Basically, I will vote Gn What I know of the candidates, if I know them personally. I do not care as much if they agree right now with what I think, but if in the future they will express what I feel. Note: Tbe question before the elections. Lee Schwartz Junior Yes. I am looking for someone who is truly concerned and wants to deal not only with the present problems in the administration bUt also. work to establish some· concrete objectives that . the. college can follow in all fi.elds.l Most of all l want someone whol wants to represent the college, ' not his or her own views. : I Professor J. Ginsbura Spanish I was in Bogota in the and I look forward to going baCIIPai:lmtg there very soon. e t up a an<! ry. Another eJ \Irate Freslaman Males\ All last week we couldn't because we were looking apartments. Suzanne should have informed us ~lm~~~ldismtissal ago. Sh.e's part of administration and is just more little mark against administration that's going ~ ....... . .W.llllll hill. This is how we've affected. To the nion Coli oekeyT It is very unfortunate that ~ny of the players on a very fine team have suffered personal abuse due to the fact that they are . hockey players; however, a number of players have responded to criticism of the hockey program by personally threatening its critics. The majority of the team although innocent gets a reputation for the acts of a few. These players who violate the rights ()f other students should . be removed from this camp.lis. It is absolutelY inexcusable to act in such a manner. Conversely, it is inexcusable to condemn innocent ' people for the acts of a few. Although it is probably ·not possible to remove the tainted reputation · the hockey team is obtaining immediately (bY removing the troublemakers), the · situation can be improved. I· : therefore appeal to the innocent · · players to try ta prevent the guiltY 1 parties from continuing their acts of aggression .against the .College and its students. The situation on campus is rapidly becoming out ! of control and the eventual result will hurt the prestige . and reputation of a fine college, its students and even its athletic programs. Peter Mandel· , · · · · · · · · · .' · · · Cbis§,'oji'f91CJ. ~ FOJ Al 1 Li1 46 LUK 83 8 A: Full llJ sQda 1 ,p

