~­ c ·~ 0~ --= co ~0 Zwingle Meets With Students by ANDY ALTMAN J .l . Zwingle, one of the m.cmbers of the RevieW Committee selected to \assist the Board in charting a course that would pe most effective lor the tuture of Union College both in the short and long range,\ met in President Bonner's Office for a I uesday, February 2~. afternoon meeting with members of the student body. Mr. Swingle, and the other three members of the Committee, have been meeting w.ith students, faculty, and other college personnel ever since they received their charge of duty at the January 25, 197~ meeting of the Board of i'rustees. consequences of those options belore making any recommendations to the Hoard. He went on to emphasi7e that not every situation has JUst one answer. Jl Volume 107 No. 17 Mar(h 1, 1978 ~~-.: J. L. Zwingle of the Campus Review Committee. II Nevin Dubin Committee members have been busy soliciting campus opinion on all areas relating to the College, and have not yet been able to narrow their focus. Topics of discussion at the meeting with Mr. Zwingle, ranged from the performance of President Bonner, to the sudden lack of support for the school's sports teams in the wake of the Uecember hockey \crisis.\ Another area which drew a great deal of attention was that ot the governance system at U nian. In particular, questions were raised as to where the lines of accountability and responsibility should be drawn with respect to relations between the Administration and the v<u'ious college committees. lhe .Re.view l 'ommittee hopes to be ahl.e to narrow its focus. as soon as possible, hut for the time being it is still in a sorting and tabulating type process. rhe more input the committee receives tirom the campus in the form of opmtons bot.h pro and con relating to any area of the College, as well as data with regard to the quality and quantity of applicants applying to Union this year as compared with years past, the better the committee feels are its chances for a thorough and effective .evaluation. Librarian Candidates by ANDY ALTMAN l he Union College Librarian Search Committee, chaired by Philosophy Professor Jan Ludwig, is inviting three \Hnalists\ for the position of Director ·and Head Librarian of Schaeffer to visit the campus. By ottering the Union College com- munity the opportunity to meet with the candidates, the Committee feels that the search will be greatly 'enchanced. \ Being director of Schaefler Library requires an individual to direct all internal activities of the library, formulate budget requests to be .passed on to the Planning . To Visit Union and Priorities Committee, and to .selection process is still: a rolling a certain e~tent, work with the one, it is convinced that all 3 of Capital District Library Council the candidates who will be visiting (of which Schaeffer Library is a Union are highly qualified. member) in various fund raising I he first of the three finalists to activities. While an all inclusive visit the campus will be Thomas list of desirable qualifications for Kirk, a graduate of Earlham the position is impossible for College who is presently serving anyone to draw up, it is obvious as the science libraria!l. at that that certain attributes are highly school. Following Kirk, in order d~sirable. The mo~t important of of appearance, will he David these qu1,1lities according to _ f!!:>~Ll.l~9_J~~~ :P.elleti~:re. ,Mr. Professor Ludwig is significant Frasier is a graduate of llamilton administrative experience in an College, while Ms. Peiletiere is academic library coupled with an the Acting Executive Director of interest in commitment to the the Library at the University of promotion of scholarship.. While Wisconsin at Osh~osh. the Committee maintains that the During · its search, the Committee has written. directly to two hundred co'llege and university library directors and this has yiel<ted between thirty and forty nominations. Adver· tisements ~ere also placed In the Most of the issues which were raised were in turn connected with what certain members of the college community see as President Bonner's lack of effective leadership. One of the issues raised is the apparent lack of morale on the part of both faculty. and students. Despite this tact, Mr. Zwingle would not be lead to fo,cus his discussion ~olely on the President. !'hough he showed a genuine concern for these issues, Mr. Zwingle was just as interested in hearing student opinion on the quality of education at Union in the past and present. Lichterman Dismissed :New York Times, the Jaurnal of American Libraries and the College and Research Library News, and these brought the total number of n<lminations to bet'!'feen e!gl,l~Y:.1!;!1c!. _o.\~ hl\ndred. The Committee then· selected about fifteen candidates. ·Each of these candidates had t<l supply at least three references. On the basis of these references and individual candidate credentials, the Committee narrowed the number of candidates down to three. A iter two unsuccesst\ul atter.1J$S (in previous years) to find an individual worthy or filling the pos1tton, the Committee is confident that this y.ear·s search will be much more fruitful. By inviting the three \finalists\ to visit .the campus, the L\ommittee hopes to afford students, faculty and other college personnel the opportunity of meeting with the can<lidates and expressing their opinions with regard to the operation ot Sch.aeller Library. By the same token, it is hoped that these visits will allow the candidates to obtain first hand knowledge about the college and its library facilities. Overall, Mr. Zwingle's meeting with the students served to further emphasize the intent of the commtttee to review ''the performance of the trustees, the president, the administration, the faculty, and the students,\ to the extent that it is necessary. According to Mr. Zwingle, committee must look at possible options. and study by TOM HOWES Madin Lichterman, Uistin- guished Professor of History and Higher Education, and former Uean of Fac~lty, will not be contracted to teach at Union after the 1977-n academic year. Notified ot the decision unof- t\icially at a private meeting with President Thomas N. Bonner, Prof. Lichterman waited five weeks while members of the History and Political Science departments tried unsuccessfully Martin Lichterman, former Dean of Distinguished Professor of History Education Faculty and and Higher _. to persuade the administration to Attacking President Bonner's reverse its decision, before being priorities, L.ichterma n said, notified officially by letter from \Appar:ently President Bonner the President. Although terms for doesn't care as much for faculty a new contract were offered to loyalty to the institution, as he Lichterman after several weeks of does for faculty loyalty to nimself. faculty pressure, he turned them He has tried to build as tightly down, explaining, \they were loyal a group around him as insulting to my twelve years of possible.\ Asked what h.e thought service to the school.\ of this policy, Lichterman said, Citing a Jack of funds as the \It's unwise. But while the short- controlling factor and term effects may be disagreeable, explanation for the non-renewal, the school will survive, and Prof. Lichterman expressed regret ultimately overshadow any one and some bewilderment. \After person's contribution.'' ten years as an administrator, five Lichterman tabbed Union one of of which were as Dean of Faculty, the top ten liberal arts schools in plus two more years as a the country, saying, ~·You can Distinguished Professor- years 1 count the_ schoo!.s that are better feel l served the school well and · on your tmgers. loyally 1 was given the ~rofes~or Lichterman c~me to opportunity to stay on provided I Umon trom . the N~~ E?gla~d accept a substantial pay cut. Hoard ol ~hgher EducatiOn m equivalent to the salary of an 1966. Prevtous to t~at he had assistant professor.\ Rather than taught at Rutgers, Pnnceton, and_ stay and create a potentially sen- the Massachusetts . lns~ttute ~t sitive situation he has preferred lechnology. As a hist~>nan, he ts to leave. ' interested mostly in the Civil War Occupying a unique posttion at and Rec?~struction pe~iods, ~nd, Union as a Distinguished Pro- recent mthtary and foreign policy .. fessor, Lichterman has signed • A Harvard graduate', class _ol year to year contracts since 39, wtth_ a Ph.U. lrom t.:o~umbta, stepping down as Uean of Faculty 195_2, Ltchterman wa& htred. ?Y in 1976 As a former adrnin- Umon as I.>ean ot Humamttes istrator ~oving into the faculty, and Social Sciences. At the time, Lichterman could not technically there. were two D~ans, the other become a member of tbe history ~ea~mg. th~ .. Sctence and department until there was a Engmeermg dtvtsto~. l n 1972, he Y Wh ich did not happen became Dean oi racu.lty, a post vacanc • h h I'd \I 1976 ·1 · over the course of two years. His ~ e · untt , u~t•. ass~mmg salary, approved by President hts . role as Dtstlngutshed Bonner in the past, came from a Pro~essor. fund unconnected with other .Ltch_terJ!lan was b~~ and salaries. ratsed tn the New York Ctty area. I he candidates will remain on campus lor approximately a day and a hall. I he first half day will be spent tam iliarizing the c;~ndidates with the .library, the library stall, students and administration. I he next day will be tilled with meetings with these groups ol people. !Specitically, receptions will be held lor the candidates with all interested students, faculty and stall invited to attend in Hale House Lower Lounge.at 5:00p.m. I he first ot these receptions will take plac~ on the 7th ot March lor I homas Kirk. ~eceptions for l>avtd f-raser and Jean Pelletiere · will be held on tv1arch i 3 and March 2~. respectively. In addttion, the Committee has scheduled interview meetings for the three candidates. Like the receptions, these meetings will be open to all mterested parties. On March 8th, I homa.s Kirk will be in Strauss Lounge for an 11:30 a.m. meeting, and in the Music Continued on Pace 9 .I·

• • • ' l ·•• ~ .·. :\ l ~. 4 2 CONCORDIENSJS, March 1, 1978 --~------~--~------------------~ Editorials Comparison: Throughout the turmoil at Union, one factor has been maintained relatively unscarred. The educational quality at this institution still remains a~ its stmngest and most viable drawing card. Faculty, students and administrators appear confident that l\ nion's academic foundation i~ indeed its key tq the future and its major ~ource of appeal to prospective candidates. Howe\er. to those individuals who are unfamiliar with Union's strong academic tradition or to those who may begin to doubt the ·high quality for which the institution stahds, the recent situation may prove to be a demoralizing one. For those reasons, Concordiensis feels that Union College should engage in an evaluation process for its academic spheres so that it can concretely state that the excellence the school has traditionally held remains strong and untarnished. An adequate evaluation process might include a random comparison between similar courses offered at Union and other comparable institution~. The comparison could encompass items such a!> required readings, traditional material covered, curreNt topics discmsed, the us&ge of teaching assistants, and type of examination procedure~ implemented. It would abo seem important to reaffirm the equality between or indeed the superiority of the ten week long course and the more traditional fourteen week term used at other institutions. Basically, Union course:-. lose about 2 hours in the trade-off:{l4 x3 = 42 vs. 4 ' IU = 40). but it has been Union\ contention that this represents about 5I 1 ol the total time and therefore is not an unsurmountable setback. Indeed many schools have science labs as. separate courses, while L:mon structures labs into the clas,room course so that an integrated whole i~ produced. Indeed this must weigh in lJJ1ion\; Javor. Wnh all ol the indicators pointing to a decreasing high 4uality applicant pool, it would seem that Union would encourage this type of comparison at the level which truly represents the heart of this school, the teaching and educational functions. Instead of comparing tuitions, athletic programs and special programs, it seems appropriate lor Union to engage itself in a survey of the a:.pectl!> of its existence which are strong. lt seems that the EPC might be the logical place to begin this type of activity. but that group already appears overburdened and the creation of an ad-hoc group to look at the feasibility of the proposal may be nece~sary. Even if this specilic idea is not implemented, Concordiensis feels that Union should begin to look to emphasize the aspects which have tradttionally brought high-4uality students, faculty and administr.ator!'> to thi~ imtitution. Senate Agenda THURSDAY, MARCH 2.1978 4:30 P.M. OLD CHAPEL I. It read) · 1- urther report o! the !'>lib-committee ot Plannmg & Priont1e~ charged V..lth .. dctining what i~ a ~tudent activity, and there! ore what aL\Il\ ittr.:~ -.hould be tunded by the College.\ 2. Propo,alllll J change m calendar l.rom Student Forum. Wherea,. tht: ltr-.t three day' ol cla~:-.e:- in the !-all term and the la-.t lv.o day-. lll cla-,-.c., he! orr.: I hanbgi\ing vacatwn arc poorly attended. It h then rropo,cJ that the hcgmnmg ol Orientation lor mcommg l·re!'>hmen and tran:-tcr., be lmmally ~tartccl two days carlu:r than_ ha' prn wu:-1~ been cllHle ( lhur~cla~ in~tcad ol Saturday). Hy movmg Orientat11)n up two day~, the lir~t day of class will ~tart on that following Monday. Since cla!>~Cs will have ~tartcd on a Monday rather than a Wednc~day, there i~ no need tor the \hall- week\ nght bet ore the I hanksgiving vacation. This proposal then call~ tor clas~e~ to end on the Friday instead of the Tuesday before Tha nbgivi ng. 3. On Fnday. reb. 10, the EPC approved the following proposal lor action by the All-College Senate. · The grading ~ystem will be changed to mclude +'s and ·s lor all grad€s exc€pt F and two other exceptions. The +'s and 's shall also be u:-.ed in grade-point-average computation. Thi~ wfll become effective as o! Fall Term. l9n. 4. It was moved. seconded and voted that the Admissions Committee recommend that the Senate enlarge the Admissions Committee to include the Director o! Athletics. 5. New Business. union col¥ 11 , concor01ens1s Editors-in-chief ......................................................... Joe \..appuccio, Matt Nagorsky l'rnductwn Manager.. . .......................................... Sara Simon' News editors ...................................................................... Andy Altman, Ed Paikoff Student Advisor ......................................................................... Danny Wojnilower Copy Editor........... . .. ..................................................................... Roslyn Stone layout Ed1tors.. .... . _.... .. Jason Deutschmeister Spom Ed1tor ... .. ........................................................... Marty Dolan f-eature Ed!tor ................................................................................... :Cindy Aranow Culture Eduor..... ... .. ... .. ... .. . .. .......................................... Cindy Vanina Photo l:dtton ............................................................... Ed Platz, Jeff Wilklow Photo Staff .............. Jonathan Axel, Mark Feinberg~ M1ke .Sacco, r-:evm Dubin. Busmes; Manager; ............................................................ Jeff Siegal, Bob Weinstein Subscnpuon Editor ........................................................................... Laurie Brecher Classifieds ednor; .................................................. Patti Moran, Martha Rubenstein Circulation Editor .............................................................................. Dan Tarantino Poetry Editor ............................................................................... Delaune Stageman Art Ed1tor .............................................................................................. Lester Weiss Staff this week ................................................ Pegg) O'Rourke, han le•tel, Debbie i)amrell, Steve Grill, Mary Deaett, Gary Bowitch, Andy Oelbaum CONCORDIENSIS. is published every Wednesday by the student bod) of Union College, Old Gym Hall, Schenectady, New \'orli; to .which Postal Forms 3579 are directed. Publications Office: The Jewish World Publications, 416 Smith St., Stlienectady, N.Y. 12305 (370-5483). Entered· in the Schenectady Post Office as Second Class Matter. S!lhscrlptiop Rate 35 cents per copy, $10. a year delivered anywhere in the United States. proposals · To the EditOI': 1 wisb 'to comment on the article in Concordiensis, february 15, !978 entitled: ···rAP Revised.\ As anticipated, some students have been in already inquiring about the prop()sal.., and I feel ··responsible to ·point out that Mr. Lluryea':s stat~ments ·are true in the sense that the whole iSsue Clf changes in the TAP ·. awar<is is under,aoitis, a lot of aggling, talking and compromising at this stage but they have not l>em !}assed by the legislature. I he _proposals · to increase the l\AP ceiling and to strike out the mandated $200 reduction for upperclassmen are strongly supported by the independent colleges and legislators from both ~Ides of the aisle. Governo.r Carey's proposal to . increase the J AP award by · $300 retroactively - to September, 1977 · tor -the lreshman class only, appears · to be in the best position to be • approved. But again, no legislation has been pas~led. When significant legislation has been enacted and funded, I shall keep the campus apprised through the very fin_e, cooperative, responsive media such as Concordiensis~ W R UC and the College Chronicle. in the meanllme, it behooves students and parents who are I AP recipients to keep abreast ol what is going on in this program and let your respective assemblymen and senators know your leelings about this most important t:ssue. Joseph Maras Dtrector ol Student Aid .. suit cases In heu ol tmsundcrstan<lmgs that have anscn concerning the Uelta Ph1 Suitcase Patty scheduled lor April 7th, l would like to make the following clarific<~tions: I) lickets are. (and always have been). available to the entire campus community. Admini!>trat<>rs. taculty, ind-ependents. and Greek society members are all welcome. I here are a limited number of tickets, all priced at $7.50 per couple. They must be purchased in the titudent Activities Office, or from your· local l)elta Phi-ite. 2) A raffle will he conducted at the party to choose the lucky couple who will spend the weekend m Bermuda. Although the couples' actions during the weekend will be left . to their own disc~etion, two separate hotel rooms _.....wur be available for their use. In any event. whether you win or lose the raflle, the party should be a good time tor all. See you there,_ Mike Arato Delta Phi .response · To the Editors: ',Allow me first to t!btnpli·ment the subtnltter o'f · · for Wt'iting an ~n(ire without ttte least of · Dr. Thomas : 'B1tintill!t: ·However, it is' ·with · unea·se tltaC th~ •content · ritter' !f~~fS't'er~. ,,ffi• · · mind. Though of justified motivation and · relatively sound intent, the author lacks the ability to· make fa:ir Judgements 1Concerning ani-mal rights issues and shows little awareness of due process. ln this regard, tne proposals in the letter· should be reformulated, reorganized., and, if desired, resubmitted. · lt is umnistaken!y true that a problem- with ·-d-ogs e~ist~ today on the grounds.. l)ngs ''frolicking\ on. the Ll!)rary ·· Held, roaming Schaffer Library, andattendJlig 'lectures have not ~scap~d the atteniion of anyo11e. Altbovgh Ut:e.se: d·o not present any. probiem to me, I can understan<i the teelings ol those people- who· are environmentally offended by them. My f11mily owns an English Setter, and I become perturbed at every meal when she comes begging to the table -and nearly takes food off of everyone's forks. I would be equally upset if some hound pranced into the Pub and began drooling mto my lap. But these petty grievances can be controfled without the measures briefly outlined in Steven Glazer's proposals. brst of all, it must be asserted that dogs possess the roaming nght with regard to Library tield. It is a very open place and provides ample room for the freedom ol movement oi both dogs· and people. According to the Canine Constitution ot the United Sates ot America, this privilege r has been granted to them as an inalienable right. \Vith thts m mtnd, the other problems can easily -be dtsposcd oL H mdeed the dogs do not he long In the L ibrary, Pub. or dassrooms. then simply prevent tll::tr entrance. n a dog ~hould by chance oht:nn l'ntrance, kmdly show tum through the ncan:~t cXtt and to th~.: happy roaming grounds. It should be nQted here that \.vhde m the company ol his master en promenade. a dog has little reason not to be leashed. H mvcver, at certam ttmes dunng a dog's routine, especially during that ot a runner, the dog should be allowed total freedom oi movement. When this is not provided !or, the dog can be physiologically atlected in the negative direction as a direct result ol the confinement. l his.., incidentally, is also very true with humans. Attention shQtlld now be paid to the-financial aspects of Steven's proposals. For- that matter, it is some wonder that all ol h1s proposa-ls are monetary m nature! 1t seems as though he is trying to establish . another source of income tor the College endowtnent! Rather than having individual fines paid for automatically by the $lOU deposit, ·the operations of fine payment should occur with each offense and without the interactions of a deposited account. Fnr'the;rmore, the fines recommended In Steve's . p.toposals should observe a reduction of at least 5(}-52%. The intent of this letter is flOt to force an appreciation of the canine · species on Steven Glazer., but rather to indicate his unawareness of th.e specific ·needs ot:ttog~ ~fiQ''the, ne't:~tless,. · 'llttss ·of·· hilk,,t)~11ned;, sancti(las in Jight of tlte ability. oLtite · diswrbanoos:-to· ,be -otberwise . - Steve) tne.a§Ur~s.:, his,~Probl~l' wdJ still exist· because . .of.'\~h@: prolitcration of native. tQ;\Vn dog~. ln any ~ase, .disruptin&Jt, . dog's li:vdibow is depyjng l\i91h his right to . survival.. And .W'eY . as a higher order species'\ should main.tain that right. s:e, leave them alone, and they will (go) home, wagging their tails .. behind them! Ronald A. Scatcia a\'o~k.'.· · .. ~ ~;~~~ ;' .~·. To the Editors: '1 wo ·hours ago (9~30 p.ifii. Tuesday} l was\attaeked aiii!V bitten by two'tiogs in front (l.':t the library: Needless to say that the situation is out of. control and immediate action\ · should be taken. Janice Fischer didn't like 'fo the Editors: Alter reading the anicle entitled '\I ry. It \ ou Might like Jt\ l decided to write a- letter. I have tried Punk Rock and don't like e1ther it or what it stands lor. tar from being \an-amaztng· new phenomenon which could change the face of modern society,\ Punk Rock is the sick product of a sick society. I heFe are many problems in the world today. Poverty, Wa'r, lack of Brotherhood and the general • mcompetance. greed and lack of eth1cs on th;: part ol those entrusted to run the govt!rnments ol all the people to name u lew ... We live 1n a world ot bad tensions and hoshhty, ol InJU~tlce to our Brothers. l hts mu~t change m . the luture and l have lmth that II wtll :when people wake up to the needs ot the moment. l'unk Rock. Wtth lts cries ol \th1~ sucks\ and \l1te's a bummer,\ Is nothing more than a regression !rom the act1ve tdeal·Ism ol the 60's to the neutral numbness ol the 70's. I he only way to affect change lor the luture is action in the present. I he only positive change will come from actions spurred by love, under~ standing, and solidarity, not the negative nihilistic content or Punk Rock. J will not even attempt to comment on the music, JUst don't try to tell me that it is a movement of any consequence. Sick roots do not · nurture healthy trees. If you want to see society change don't JUSt sit around and moan (which is what' Punk Roek promotes). get active. !'here's no time but the present. You must, in the words of the Weathermen, Seize the Momentt Hopefully yours, Brett Wolfe ;81 • • • mJUSlice .. Ed. Note! lhe following letter was written by a student presently enrolled in one of ProJessor Kenney's classes. ·roe student wishes to remain .anonymous for · obvious .·· reasons. Dear. Editors: ·with u~e , inju§tic¢ that · been k<:otti&tlt.ti;:d\ .• · •·. ·. ···. ·· · ' · .· tenure nf·9J'Ofessor. Kenney, fil1<fit · sit' tdly • · 1 by MURRA 1 A new ~ committee - Student Coalit was formed Forum at it' Monday nigl topics included agenda tor meeting, and committee appointments. The first or· a short discuss now existing student has ha1 Admissio.ns C< the two v: Presidential A the vacancy of Secretary. Stu the secretary < sign up in the Otfice by 4:: March 3. Any tilling the SJ should cont:ac Cemmittees o Activities. lh immediately. deadline has · President (j discussion of I he definiti1 activity; a pr< term's calendl plusses and grades start 197K; a pre: Athletic L Admissions c I orum resolt rehiring of Director wen I he onl substantial 1 proposal to Director tc Committee. , against the p: should admit not athletes, lor a sep~ Committee concerned athletics. Bri the coaches compute the: based on h~ current Adn A spot on unnecessary. questioned coaches pro: Director in c on behalf ol Zolner was Admissions how the A straw poll \l members ·proposal, t: tWo abstaim Next, _ represent in~ Student Co 1 he IS organizati01 higher educ of the ISC N. \:. Stat( Plan's rru increased, income th1 funds by $• Ot the As anotl by, and sp many of us our next y Aside fi' academic where to li· pledge a contemplat any of the we must : going td 1 extra-curri• schoot go1 best way.s acting as • ••. • J ~ i .. ~ \\~ . '- .. ~.1

CONCORDIENSIS, March 1, 1978 New Committee Formed by MURRAY LEVISON A new standing Student L'ommittee - the Independent Student Coaliticm Committee ~ was formed by the Student Forum at its weekly meeting Monday night. Other: major topics included a discussion of the agenda tor I hursday's Senate meeting, and annoum;ement of committee vacancie~ and appointments. The .first order of business was a short discussion of the vacancies now existing on coml):iittee:). A student has had to resign from the Admissions l;ommittee, adding to the two vacancies on the Presidential Advisory Board and the vacancy of the Student 1:-'m:um Secretary. Students wishing to fill the secretary or PAB spots are to sign up in the Student Activities Otfice by 4:30 pm on Friday, March 3. Any senior interested in tilling the spot in Admissions should contact the Committee on Cemmjttees or .sign up in Student Activities. lhis should be done immediately, although no deadline has beert established. President Uana then initiated a discussion of the Senate Agenda. l he definition of a student activity; a proposal to change fall term~s calendar; a .proposal to add plusses and minuses to most grades .starting September I, 197g; a .proposal to add the Athletic lJir.ector to the Admissions Committee; and the I orum resolution regarding the rehiring of the Admissions Director were aU discussed. I he only topic getting substantial discussion was the proposal to add the Athletic Director to the Admissions Committee. Andy Koblenz spoke against the proposal saying Union should admit students as students, not athletes, and there is no need tor a separate spot on the Committee for someone concerned specifically with athletics. Brien 0' loole felt that the coaches shoup be able to compute their recruits' point total based on heir knowledge of the current Admissions point system. A spot on the committee was unnecessary. Murray Levison questioned the possibility of coaches proxying for the Athletic Director in cases of appeals made on behalf of their recruits. Joe Zolner was asked to explain the Admissions process, showing how the A.D. would fit in. A straw poll was taken. No Forum members approved of the ·proposal, twelve dissented and two abstained. NeX.t, an invited guest representing the Independent Student Coalition spoke. I he ISC is a lobbying organization. dealing solely With higher education. Recent efforts of the lSC include seeing that the N.). State I uition Assistance Plan's maximum award be increased, and increasing the income threshold, raising TAP funds by $45 to all recipients. Ot the 109 Independent l;olleges in N.Y. state, HO are members· ollSC. AU 109 schools have a spot open on the Assemby however. An Executive Committee, with t:t~ student members, is split 'between upstate and downstate colleges. Miller, Steve Richards, Ruth Sctlulze, Jeff Ulrich, Dave Van Camp, Hugh Walsh, and M'itch Wol'in. Debbe Damrell and Steve Richards were sel~cted 'as Co- L'hairpeople. The .next meeting of the . lhe usual form of funding for active member schools is 5011: per fulltime student. This gives the ISC about $50,000 to work with yearly, All money comes from students, although some colleges have had their presidents fund their share for the first year or two while their lSC branch .gets ot:f the ground. This was done last year here· at Union when President Bonner gave $1600 Stuc:lent Forurn will be Monday, March '}.7, at 1'0 pm in SSOl6. Any changes in the time or place will be publicized. Don'·t forge(. the Senate meeting Thursday at 4:30 in Old Chapel. The .Student Forum created the Independent Student Coalition Committee this week. Faculty Acts on Contract towards Union's membership. by JIM DAVIS views to the t]ommittee on The concensus was that tJnion Faculty. The Committee would could get a let aQt of its At the last meeting of Union's usually endorse a favorable membership in the JSC. Students general taculty Feb. I5, two · recommendation. lf either the could work as interns and proposals wer.e approved that will Dean ef Faculty or the division lob.byists, and problems make it a litHe easier for non~ that had reviewed the professor confronting all N. I'. state tenured professors to continue decic;tes that his contract should independent college students teaching here. When a professor :not be renewed;, then an ad-hoc '- could be researched andhopefully begins Working here, he is given a committee, similar to ones that solved by working in a group two-year contract. When this review tenure candidacies ·would etlort. ·I he biggest help to date ex.pires, he is reviewed by his be established. - ln no case, has been. increases in lAP aid, for department. If tbe review is .however, could a professor be which about 60% of Union's favorable the professor is usually dismissed solel:y on the basis of student body are potentially given a three year contract. lf the the dean•s or departmenfs eligible. review's findings are unfavorable, recommendations without a President Uanz proposed that the professor is given notice that subsequent review by an ad-hoc the Forum allocate funds for he will be dismissed in one year. committee. Union's membership in the lSC tollowing the expiration of the Professor W. r:ranklin ·ntus, tor 19n-79, and that the ISC be three-year contract, faculty speaking on behalf of the established as a standing student members are usually given ·Division of Science at the faculty corhmiftee to provide continuity another two-year contract. u pan meeting, found such a systern for ot eflort throughout the year and its completion. the professor is renewing non-tenured professors· representation in the ISC eligible under normal circum- contracts '\higbly prejudicial,\ and decision~making .process. After a stances to receive tenure, allowing submitted an alternative proposal. question of whether student him to continue working here for The Science Division's interest should be gauged t'irst, as long as he wishes. For tbese proposal, which was approved. the Forum voted in favor of the purposes, an ad-hoc committee is allows for the automatic renewal proposal with twelve votes in established to consider the ot a non-tenured professor's lavor and two opposed. professor's worthiness of receiving contract unless his performance The · C om mi t tee on tenure. has worsened considerably. Committees was then asked to However. in 1971 the college's make a report of its activities. Board of Trustees ruled that na Murray Levision first proposed more than 60% of the professors that whenever the Committee on in any of Union's four divisions Committees had selections to may be tenured. As a result, a bring to the Forum for approval, number of professors who had that it be done so in a closed taught here the required number session. His rationale . was - that of years and had been found should the Committee on tenurable were not granted tenure Committees offer a name to the because 60% of the professars in Forum, and the Forum then their division were tem,1red and no rejects it, it would be tmfortunate tenured positions existed. · fhese if that person found out about professors, instead, were given such action. Also, the Committee four-year contracts. The first of on Committees makes otficial these contracts expires this year. notification to all applicants as to Professors whose contracts will whether or not they were selected. , conclude this academic year are As stated in the Committee's ; William W, lbomas, Stephen M. Guidelines, no Forum member is · Berl<., Robert V. Wells, P. to tell any applicant of his/her Frederick Hartwig, and Byron A. status before that information is Nichols. mad.e public. ;. Non-Forum The Committee on Fa1:ulty had members at meetings may not proposed that all professors respect this Forum rule. ·rhe whose contracts have expired or proposal was accepted as a sense shall expire under these circum- of the Forum. stances be reviewed by their own Appointments to the Tax departments. This review Would Committee were Michael Brand, be less extensive than the one Michael Sacco and Steve conducted by the ad-hoc Wasserman. Brand was selected committee when the professor as assistant chairperson. was being considered for tenure. Appointments to the Orientation U the department's review recom~ Committee were Michael Arato, mended that the professor's Walter Baker, Denise Bouch-er, contract be renewed,· it would Cynthia Clark, Debbe !Jamrell, :then be considered by the Dean of Andrea Fink, Nancy Gagliano, Faculty, currently Paula P. Lisa Katz, Lisa Lenz, lodd .Brownlee, who would send her \It's a retlection on the poor job market that professors must remain here even though we can't ofter them tenure,\ said Professor 'titus. \But since they want to stay here, and the college wants to continue employing them, we should make the procedure for renewing contracts as simple and fair as possible. lhafs what our proposal is intended to do.'; Protessor Hartwig, one of the professors whose contract expires this year, agrees with the Science 1Jivisi9n's amendment to the procedures for renewing non- tenured professors' contracts. \In addition te the· professors whose contracts expire this year who, had. been fou.nd tenurabJe, bUt fQr whom tenure positions did not exist, there are about a dozen other professors who.se contracts will ex.pire in the next lew years who are in similar situations,\ · Protessor Hartwig satd. \Had tt not been tor the bad luck· of the draw,. there would have been tenur:e positions available for these people; we would have received it and wouldn't be in the position of now having to have our contracts reneWed. It only makes sense (hat we be treated as if we · had received tenure, and automatically receive a new contract withoQt another revieW, as the Science Division's amendment cans for.\ Professor Hartwig also rec<,nnmended an amendment •. which was passed over- whelmingly, de~~:ling with the oftering of tenure to professors such as ·himself who are under contract but had been found tenurable. Professor Hartwig~s amendment calls for professors in such ;:t· pos·ition to be granted tenure when a position becomes available unless the departmental review committee can ·~demon­ strate deterieration in scholar- Ship and teaching,\ 1f the depart- mental Feview finds such a d.eterioration. the person's contract shall be .. censidered terminal.\ U the department finds the professor eligible for tenure while the lJean of Faculty does not, then an ad._hOc committee, like ·the on.;: tha.t had originally reviewed t.he professor's candidacy for tenllre, would be established. ln cases where a department has mote than one person who holds a non~tenured appointment and whose tertur- ability has been established, the departmental review committee could recommend any of these persons to the Dean of Faculty for tenure. If none of the individuals eligible for tenure is recommended by the depart- mental review, then the review committee must submit ·a recommendation to the I:>ean of Faculty that all . of the co:Q~r~cls be termiilated, ·But: -··:this recommend·ation. is not finaL· Instead, there is a review procedure identical to . the ' one invoked when an indiv.i<lua~ professor who had been fQund · tenurable; but for · · whom, ·no tenured position had exis:ted, is later found' unwort~y of rel:eiving it when a tenure position is vacated. Prof~:;ssor · Hartwog's Get Involved on Committees amendment deletes the portion of the provision for t'he granting of tenure that stated that all candidates meet current tenur- ability requirements. ''Standar.ds for tenure have increased greatly in recent years,\ Professor Hartwig said. \It's possible that a professor whose performance was considered worthy oftenure when he was first considered would not have the credentials to meet the new, tougher tenure standards when a position finally became available. My amendment· rules out such a possibility.\ Protessor Hartwig also said that heliked' bpth amendments to the procedures for contract renewals and the granting of tenure to professors under contract. \They mean better professors will be attracted to come to lJ nion because there will As another winter term rushes by, and spring term approaches, many of us must begin to plan for our next yeat at Union College. Aside hom planning our academic schedules, deciding where to live or whether or not to pledge a Greek Society,. and contemplating participation in any ot the tetm aborad programs, we must also decide if we are going to play an active tole in extra-curricular activities and school government. One of the best way.s to get involved is by acting as a Student Forum or ' . •. • ~ ~ \' • j • , I' ~ • ~ \ • ., ' ' • ' College Senate Committee · member. I hese committees are the backbone of our school's gover.nance system, and allow one to play an active role in any o~· ~ number ot aspects of college Ide here at Union. t.:ommittee work would involve anything t:rom helping to plan the college budget, to organizing student concerts. Positions will be available on all committees, including the new.ly formed Concert Committee, which will be separate from the Social Committee next year. Other committees are: College Center, Speakers 1-orum, Traffic and Pet Court, Committee on Committees, Film Elections, Public Relations, Planning and Priorities, Cdmmencement, Bookstore, College Resources, Financial Aid, Athletics, Career Planning, Faculty, Security, Supportive Services, Standing of Students, Library, Educational ·Policy, Admissions, Presidential Advisory Board, Student Life, Housing, Lectures, Concerts. and ~ I ' f ' ~ J t ' 1 t t · • ~ ~ ~ ,._ • ' ' ). t ; ' ~ t .,._ • • • ' ·, 1 • 1 ,,_f.-J ' ... ,<~)':_,,,r.::. ... ·.!.c'l'·'f\'\·•lll.l.•~··',~~t,o,f_~ t~~· ·.\.e\\:rt•~. • ,•,1,..; ~ !: • .;._,..,~ ;//',' )~· .. '//,·.\ <j r ·'-'~~··\' ~v' .•. :,.,.,,.,. 1-ilins, Campus Planning, Graduate Studies, Conduct Ombudsman, Continuing Education, and Independent Student Coalition 32 committees in all with spots for approximately 120 students. Applications for Committees will be available in the Student· Activities Office on April 3rd ~ the second Monday of Spring Term. C:ompleted forms are due no later than Friday, April 14th at 4:30 pm. Anyone already on a committee must reapply, if he or Continued on Page 9 be no question about their cantinued employment if they're found tetnuable, regardless of wh~ther a tenure position is available. An~ a professor who has been found Worthy of tenure but for whom no tenure position exists will know that he'll receive tenure when: a position opens up.\

' ' ·~··~•···•··'-~ .. a-~ \-•·•• •••· Rage4 CONCORJJIENSlS, March l, 1978 _ ..... culture Man For All Seasons Opens by STEVE MONOSSON With turmoil as Hemy wi&hes to divorce his present wife, a wife Some may try to ar;gtJe that which he conveniently passes off silence is golden, but in the case· as illegitimate in the face of her of Thomas More that point barrenness of male otfspring. The becomes subject to debate. Sir Church of the Pope refuses to Thomas More is the central figure acknowledge that divorc:e as the in A Man for All Seasons, by Po,pe is being controlled by the Robert Bolt, a play being anti-English Spanish govern- perlonned this weekend at the ment. Henry seems to be trapped. ;\>;ott Memorial ·1 heatre, in which I hat is until he cooks up a More goes about defending the · scheme to declar-e himself head of Catholic Church in the face of the Church, basing his medieval, King Henry Vlll style assumption on the Pope's oppression. England is fraught i:ncapacity to act of his own free ·.c.\·'·'·'\*'' Sir Thomas More and Lady Margaret will. Most of England lines up behind Henry except for Sir lhotnas, who holds that no man can declare himself head of the Church unless he is divinely beset with that power. An oath ·of loyalty is circulated ami Sir Thomas' name is the only one not to grace the document. Silence, he claims, is an exprel¥'ion of neither loyalty nor disloyalty; but of course his action is interpreted as an act of treason. Henry, who is represented through the lawyer Thomas Cromwell, does not rest · unt:il either Sir l'homas' name appears on the oath of allegiance. or More is obliterated. The end result 1s admirable, yet maddening. The play in general works well, with a lew noticeable exceptions stemming !rom ditteFent levels. I he pace ot the action, in most instances, is ot the proper cadence which 1s demanded tor the particular scene. Bolt weaves his scenanos together through the v.ehicle ot the L'otn1non Man, a character wh1ch takes on any .role which is called tor m a particular scene. l-or mstance, at the onset ot the play, a manservant for Sir thomas More is required. Consequently, the Common Man · dons the approp.riate costume .and begins to arrange the set in the fashion ot the household of Sir I homas. I he device works handily and is a boon to the interest value oJ the play. What does hurt the inter~st value,, or at least it did on opening night; is the quality of interaction. between the characters. The fellow sitting next to me remarked during the closing • moments of the drama: \Hey now this is getting interesting.\ NE Orchestra to Play by CYNTHIA A. CHAMPNEY On March 6 at ~:00 in tne Memorial Chapel a performance will be given by a 75-piece group known as the Northeastern New York Youth Orchestra . ...-ounded twelve to thirteen years ago by the present senior member of the Music Department, Edgar Curtis, the orchestra, conducted by Emory Waters, has developed a fine reputation throughout the state. are every l uesday night, providing the musicians with nine organized practices per concert which are usually held the last I uesday before finals. The .rehearsals which are obligatory also include ''sight-readings;'. Although all the concerts are classical in style, the orchestra does play semi-classical music (i.e. Montavani. Strauss) for speical events such. as playing for Linton High School's Senior Prom. The proceeds l.rom this performance are .being donated to Union College. I he budget supporting the Northeastern is a. real mixture. The majority of the financing is from the stu.dent tax. The conductofs ·salary is paid by the school, and some money is paid in the form of dues by any high school students participating. Each year, Pfof. Waters with the members of the group. He feels there is a mutual understanding of goal~ for each individual and the ensemble. lhe professor feels the orchestra is a valuable learning exp~rience. He chooses the music according to ditl1culty and listening pleasurability.. He feels that the pieces should not be so difficult as to discourage the players. Yet, it should not be so simplistic that it does not prove to be a teaching piece. The music also must fit into the ptogram of the concert and within the year's program. Along with being a learning experiem:e, · playing in this orchestra also gives students a good reference. High school students get a chance to see what good players from other schools are doing and can find out if being a professional musician should be a career consideration. What led him to this statement Happily, most of her attention is was that, during.the entire first centered a.round' her father which act and. during the beginning of is one of the more touchir:tg the second .act, the interplay was relationships in the play. .stilted. lite characters seemed to Alex Shafer, as Richard Rich, be acting independently ot' ,each the ally turned traitor t(:> Sir other instead of with each other~ Thomas, is constant in :his John Rose.,. as Mme, appears very subserviant impishness. Along relaxed on stage; and at poir)ts he with Hill Hancock as the seems to b~ too rela:xed, In the Common Man, he clearly defines dosing m()ments of the first act, his role and demeanor from the there was an instant where it very · start. Both players ably looked as though he cared not demonstrate that every imm has whether h~ said his lines properly his price, and the·· contrast or corruptedly. A momentary loss betweeit the tw,o shows that not of concentration is forgivable., but eyery man With a price il~}!S able- to laugh at <me's own mista:ke on witted as he thinks he is. stage, is that'! Rose seemed to bir.ector Barry Sm.ith keeps his take note ot his own mistake, as characters moving, and at times Act lJ saw a performance which creates movin~ interludes which was more· in line· with what h'as grip one from deep inside. come. to be expected from this Reports from those who took the talented ·individUal. H-e began to show in on nights following th~ tee! the presence of the others on opening give evidence to the fact the stage. and the others seemed . that Mr. Smith has molded the to respond with heartfelt entirety ot the pr.oduction sympathy. l he arousal ·Of my together. It would seem logical. neighbor almost directly seeing thaf it is his production coi1icide<l with that of Mr. Rose, and he knows more about ,it than as the interrelatioiJs finally anyone else. It thi~ 1s so, tl')en th~ denoted traces of real feeling. potentml ot this p\roduction ~~ Ihe su.pportirtg cast en- almost great as the Nott itselt compassed within its ranks some 1 he lighting done by Virginia fine. performances. Characteristic Giordano. the costumes done by ot some other elements of the Suzanne Frisch. the music by j>roduction, many of their best Emory \Vaters, and the moments came towarQ the foreboding set by Charles conclusion of the drama. George Steckler; all lay the groundwork Siletzky was vicious ·enough as tor a magnificent show. With a the lavvyer Cromwell, as the little push directed at a couple ot tenacity at which he approached the ·actors, particularly one his duty was truly felt in the Thomas FatreH as Signor scenes dealing with .the Chapuys, the Spa.nish inquisition. Jhe Dui;e of Norfolk, Ambassador;. a truly 'worthwhile friend of SiF .l.homas forced into production could be presented. coercion with the King, becomes · a powerfl.ll figure in the ailing a:Au::\- ______ ..........._... days of Sir U10mas. Lhristol)her If you haven't seen the Harding as the Duke was truly a Mountebanks production of A sight to :behold at the trial of the Man For. AU SeasQns yet, this is charged ex-Chancellor, as his your last chance. The show will reading ()f the verdict is an be running this Wednesday emotional zenith of the through Saturday evenings, production. Mary Mattimore Match Ist through 4th. Although plays her Lady Alice,. wife of Sir essentially dramatic, the play has I homas, sometimes a bit too much dry humor which keeps it much like a liberated American lively and interl!sting. It is a woman devoted to her man; but production that should not be when that devotion l>ecomes the missed, and it has enough center of her attentions, it almost elements in it to interest everyone becomes justified. Randy Klein, - the historian, psychologist, as Roper, Sir Thomas's son-in~ comedian. or plain old law, is beset by a role which in intellectual. itself is paradoxical. He remains Ihe play has already . been wealthy throughout the play while hailed as \theater at its best\ by a his wife toils {n tbe poverty reviewer fmm the Knickerbocker resulting from her father's News who saw the performance imprisonment. Why . doesn't on opening night, last Friday. Roper support his wife'? This Make sure you see it! It will be question remains unanswered, so the only show produced this term, consequently Mr. Klein has to go and the last night is Saturday, about his. role not kn.owing What March 4th, so buy your tickets to think of himself: lltl makes an now before they sell out. The box admirable effort, thou.gh; and it is office is open from 1 :00-5:00 p.m., · conceiv~bte that if his role was a Monday through Friday. For more rationaJ one he might have ticket inforniatioil, call the Nott been able t:o do something further Memorial box office at 370-61'53. with. it. As tile daughter Lady IF IT'S NOTf FOR YOU, TELL Margaret, Margaret-An~ A FRIEND!.!!!. Maloney puts up admirably With \\''\\'\\'•..,. _...,..,._.,._..,_.- .. ;..,._,.,.,..,. _ ...... _..,_, ............. ..,_,_..,. _......, .. a man who :lets her starw:. WIZARDS I he Northeastern is composed almost entirely of students. ranging in age from junior high school (8th grade) to adults (over 25 years old), Within the structure of the orchestra, age is not a factor in deciding seating nor delegating responsibilities. This is vividly illustrated by the concert master. Gaining this·position last .year, he is only in tenth grade now. The person occupying this chair has all the duties of the other section leaders and. is selected on the basis of actual skill along with leadership q lialities. All section leaders aid in maintammg a disciplined rehearsal, consistent bowings and full music folders. The rehearsa.ls auditions. Along with new applicants, ne also re-auditions all old members who wish to play again. There is an approX:imate 50% turnover every year. After five years of conducting and cemp9sing for the orche11tra, Prof. Waters feels he has Seery Reading Marcb3,4, 5 Fri. 10; S•t., Sun. 1, 9, 11 SS016 a close relationship Janet Seery. a Schenectady poet and short story writer, will read selections from her work and talk about writing for publication on Thursday, March 2 as part of ·. a non-credit course: being off€)red at Union College. Her reading, which is open to the public, will be at H p.m. in Room llO, Humanities Building as part of the Creative Writing course taught by Nancy lhornton. Seery, who has had: a number of poems published in small magazines, is a technical editor for General Electric and te£tches creative wr,iting and English courses at Schenectady Community Cdlege. -FORLIQVOR AND WINE --Try Jake Lipstein's ·4Ci4 State Street 374-1888 SEVEN BEAUTIES March7•8 '~ 1), n $.75 SS016 art M by JODY l If 8:30 cia: the best in Y' being sub•! 10:30, perha] ce11rse witb ·~ taught Bam arid will te~ next term. lJ tames the- \< courses are Mr.{Mts. H Steve Ovi recordings o Vivaldi, and recorder to also the Pt WMHT F.l been Prog1 August 197 cllarge Qf announcers, smooth· rur Since he hal Steve has o Wind Enser given two Classical wi managed a: • horn in thj Players, a sponsored 1 t-riends of Steve is 1 grew up in interest in the t-rench maJor tor lmivers1ty transterrin~ M1chigan. m Music l Arbor, Med1eva Renna1ssan ot period recorder, c A Iter unqergradl mto the Ar Steve was tor-player ' Army Ban' lor a whil by JOH JOE CA I he 1:-erglison, Chicago College c 9:00 pm Ensemble animal ' Memoria direction member an eveni11 Union C term dol• I he y lounded Paul St( years, tl promine1 scene at '·.

CONCORDIENSJS, March/, 1978 arts Meet Steve Ovitasky by JODY GREEN . If ~:30 classes ~o not bring ,out the best in you, if you are tired of being sub-human until after 10:30, perhaps you should take a cau.rse witb Steve OV:itsky. He has taught Baroque Mqsic this term arid will teach Chamber Music next term. If it is true that music tame~; the· wild beast, then ·these courses are sure to charm the Mr./Mrs. Hyde in you. the opportunity to pll\Y Early American music and period continental music of the period on Baroql!e hom and serpent in Williamsburg. Steve was one of tew Americans who played Classical and Baroque music with the Soul Korean Symp·honietta during his station in Korea. He also studied traditional Korean court music at the Korean National Conservatory as well as gave solo horn performances. knowledge, you may be interested in hearing more about his cour~;e next term. Music 44, Chamber Music will be offered on l'uesday aHd lhursday from 8:30 to 10:30 and will be a survey of Chamber music !rom the Baroque to the contemporary. Composers to. be included in this course are: Handel, Bach, Mozart, Haydn, Beethoven, brahms and many iwentieth century composers. As tar as the Baraque music in this course is concerned, I can vouch lor its beauty, interest, and soothing capability at tUUA M .lt may be too late to pre-register for this cours~ but it is. not too late to register next terin!. Page5 culture Steve Ovitsky not only plays recordings of Monteverdi, Schutz, Vivaldi, and Bach, and play,s the recorder for his students, he is also the Program Manager for WMHT F.M. Radio. Steve has been Program Manager since August 1976, and has been in charge Qf the . programming, announcers,· budget, and overa}l smooth · running ,of the station. Since he has been in Scnenectady, Steve has organized the WMHT Wind Ensemble, a group that\ has given two .. perlormanc~s . of Classic&,} wind music. and he has managed as well to play French Once he was out of the Army, Steve returned to Chicago to work at the radio .station at Northern Illinois University. Because he was a vet, Sieve received four years free tuition which he put towarqs. part.:time gr~d .studies. Steve became .a 'staff member pi' the University as Operations' Director . of the National Public Radio Member Station. He became a faculty member as 1-)Iie Arts Director of the station. Steve organized all performanceS. of· Baroque music at' the · ·liniversit.y which culminated in hi.s conducting and playing in. the WNIU Baroque Orchestra which gave a concert of 17th and I Hth century music that was broadcasted nationally over the National Public Radio. Aztec Two Step Conquers • hom in .the Amphion Cham.ber Players, a. group that has been. sponsored thi!i year by, the hoy rriends of Chamber Music. Steve is not tro-m this area. He grew up in C~icago and began ·bis interest in music as a student of the l-rench horn: He was a music maJor lor a year at De Paul lmiversJty m Chicago before .translerring to the University of Michigan, Ann Arhor, to major m Mus1c H1story. While in Ann A r b o r , S t e v e p e r r or me d Medieval, Baroque and Rennaissance mus1c on a variety ot period instruments like the recorder, cornett and serpent. Alter linishing his undergraduate years,· Steve went mto the Army. While in the army, Steve was tile Assistant Conduc- tor-player ol the Filth and Eighth Army Bands. Steve was stationed lor a while m N ortolk and had . !'low that Steve is in the East (working at what he emphasizes is the ··only non-commercial station in the country playing Classical music twenty-tour hours a day\) he IS abo Uuest Artist with the N.1. Philomusica Chamber En- semble. lh1s week Steve is in San r ranc1sco speaking on two programming panels at the National Meeting oi Public Rad.jo Statwns and Directors. Steve is givmg a concert ot Baroque music in co11junction with Hugh Allen Wilson and l:.mory Waters on March 12. II it seems to you that Steve Ov1tsky's c.redentials are convincmg ot talent and l his past ~unday night, tne sounds ot Aztec I wo Step could be heard from the Memorial L'ltapel. I he concl,!rt. which was attended by an enthusiastic crowd, was presented by the lJ nion Social Committee. I he concert was definitely one of the most successful events of winter term, although the chapel was not tilled to capacity. Rex l'o:wler and Neil Schulman .gave a prime performance accompanied by David Sleight on electric guitar, Mike Finkelstein on percussion, Uordon Cohen ~m keyboard and Oavid Uross on bass. I hey played a number of tunes from their newest album, AdJoining Suites. as well as some ot their older pieces: You and· I ('from AqJoining Suites}. Baking, Humpty Oumpty, lfs Uoing on Saturday, Walking on Air, ·Cockroach l'acopho.ny and Dancer's Ail were some of •the songs tl)at they playe(J. Jhe crowd brought them back for two encores, one ol which was the Persecution and Restoration of Dean Moriarity, the best song that they played. I he hrst few numbers gave the band a chance to warm up as well as the crowd (most of whom had stood outside in the cold for almost an hour) and then \they started cooking.\ I he 'crowd was ma<ie up ot a good number ot no·n·U nion students whose • I . . mprOVISlng by MITCHELL WOLIN I he newest addition to the course hst tor next term is Jazz Improvisation (Music 30), to be ollered by the Arts Department this spring, Jazz improvisation, lrom early to contemporary, will be covered trom the aspect of pertormance. I he course will be an \interpretation ot' whatever · Jazz might be.\ It will be taught by Nick Bngnola. an outstanding jaZt. mus1cmn, who has worked in this region •lor many years. Mr. Brignola is especially well- known tor Big Band and Combo- type Jazz. · Union College Jazz Ensemble in practice session Ed Platz I he idea tor the course was originated lour years ago by Edgar Curtis of the Arts Department. As usual, there was a problem w1th lul).ding. I his year, JeH Amado, a student at LJnion, put m a JOint proposal along w1th Protessor Curtis to the Internal Education l-und. As a result, $500 was appropriated lor music, plus a stipend tor the mstructor. Although the request also mciuded tunds lor the liS- piece Jau Ensemble, no money was specihcally set aside lor this purpose. Protessor Curtis and all of the Digging the Sound of Jazz by JOHN SAMUELIAN and JOE CAPPUCCIO I he sounds of Maynard l-erglison, Stan Kenton and Chicago will return to . Union College on Friday, March 3 at 9:00 pm when the Union Jazz Ensemble presents its second annual Wint(lr Concert in the Memorial Chapel. Under the direction of John Dubois, the 19- metnber stage band will present an evening of music that will snap Union College out ot' its winter term doldrums. 1 he young organization was lounded in the fall of 1976 by Paul Stefek {'77). In two short years; the lJJ E has become a prominent figure on the music scene at Union College. Through· ~. . . ' help from Judy Komoroski, Joe Cappuccio, the Arts Department and the Student lax Committee, the group has been able to ace umu Ia te a respectable repertoire of \c::harts\ and has been active in many of Union's Samuelian and l'red Berkowitz literally soaring on their parts and Uitt Cohen, John Sciortino and Adam Artla. I he lower brass lines are handled superbly by 1om Nalli on lead bone with Andy McNutt and Karl Stahl blowing over lom 1 s shoulder. Down front, digging in are the saxes. Jeff Amado's quick fingering on alto sax leads the five man section through intricate jazz .rides. Jeff Rusik on .. screech\ sax, Joe Nalli and Dave Scinto on tenors with.. Niskayuna High'.s Paul 1- rench on barisax round out the rest ot the section. . social events. I he group has performed at Parents' Weekend '77, Westock '77, Accepted La.ndida.t~s Oay '77 and Homecoming '7~: In addition the band has performed three times in concert in the Memoiral Chapel and has played at local social events. Presently still in the planning .stages at~ ,the: E.S.C.S. conference and Parents' Weekend I he beat comes home with bass band features a strong lines provided by Irwin Menken. section, with John Kenny Needleman fills in with his '78. I he trumpet • l Henson-stylc guitar. On the keyboards are the freshmen sensations, Chuck Katz and Hans A berg.. I he driving Ioree behind all bands are the guys with the sticks in ·their hands. Senior Joe Cappuccio in his last year with the group, leads the percussion section on drums. Freshman Tom Goldstein gets his licks in too. John Dubois, leader and trumpeter, is currently a student music teacher at Niskayuna High School. He is in his fourth year of study at SUNY at Potsdam. It you're into good jazz ·~llen the place to be is the Memorial Chapel on Friday night at 9:00. Dig, gate! enthusiasm was shared by the Union students. lbere wen! some complaints !rom people liltting towards the rear ol the chapel about the sound. lhey tla1med that: the words were mdistinguishable. l.he crowd seemed to enjoy the older pieces a great deal more than the pieces !rom the new album. I he band seemed to enJOY playing them more and the crowd recognized ~h1s. the older music, also lolk rock. was -a bit more mellow . I he concert was a good one and the Social Committee with the aid ol a SttJdent Survey, made a good selection when chosing Aztec I wo Step. Class students who will be involved w1th the course are very enthusiastic about 1L Mr. Brignola will be trying out students interested in the course hopefully sometime bclorc hnals. Some balanc.e of s1ght readmg ability and protic1cncy on an instrument will be a necessary prequisite. lhis is to msurc that the students will be able to get something out of the course. It ts hoped that by the end ot the course the students will have developed the ability to play as an ensemble together, an.d will be able to .. recognize themselves pertorm1ng m .d1lterent areas ot Jan.\ Anyone who desires more mlormation about the course is encouraged to contact Professor L'urtls as soon as possible. I he class s1ze m mdeiimtc. but it will probably compnse 12-15 students. It is expected that the clas~ ~ill be tn 2-hour ~CSS!Ons tWICe a Week, ctlhcr m the atternoon or evening. ll the course 1s successtul, a more advanced section may be altered m the luturc. PHILOSOPHY SEMINAR Professor Christopher 01· sen of the Dep._rtment of the History and Philosophy of EducJJtion, Ontario Institute for Studies in Education; will ·visit Union this F'riday, March3. At 3 p.m. in Humanities 213, Professor Olsen will present for discussion a paper entitled \Epistemology and the Developing Child:' Two copies of Professor Olsen's paper have been placed · on reserve in Schaffer Library . for those who would like to read it before the meeting. Refreshments and informal distussion will follow the seminar. All interested people are invited to attend. ..

Page6 CONCORDIENSIS, March 1, 1978 Service Contest 4i t}. t\ :&~ m if Journey, a Columbia recording group, will Pf!iform a free concert for the college winning ·the described contest. Columbia Records and Ampersand Magazine have jointly announced a national college Journey contest.. The contest wiU tie in colleges. and community service organizations throughout the U.S. Ampersand, iounded last year, is the first national college newspaper. I he contest's drive is to develop a campus-sponsored community service project. l\he school with the best project will be given a free concert by J oul!ney, a Columbia recording grollp, and the person responsible for coordinating the winning school's etlort will win .a one-week trip for two to the Caribbean. The ctmtest Summer Term in Europe by JACK STEIN health clinics, and a hospice (a l:.ager to avoid another boring place created specifically for the and slow summer employed as dying patient) were among the camp counselors or cas·hiers, 28 many taken. Lnion students chose to spend I hough academics· were last summer studying socialized stressed immensely during the medical care in three European month in London, evenings and countnes. Professor Robert Baker weekends were usually left free to ol the philosophy department take advantage of the many planned. this trip for a year before cultural activities offered in his 1dea finally became a reality. London. Evenings spent going to exhaustion increasing, the maJority of the group were only too glad to board the plane back to the U.S. Some die-hards did have enough strength to undergo more touring of Europe. Upon final return to the U.S. and eventually Schenectady, it is quite obvious through the enthusiastic reminiscing that the summer had been one of the most worthwhile It was h1s ambition to organize a the theatre, a concert, or lounging academic and cultural expe,riences complete summer term program about a London pub were qmte of the participants' lives. began February 1'97H and will run through April 1978, and ties in to the release of Journey's folJrth album tor Columbia, Infinity. ·1 he Journey community service contest is fully sponsored by Columbia and Ampersand. Columbia will launch an extensive radio advertising campaign, and Ampersand will wn full-page ad~ in February, March and April issues. In an effort to maximize community involvement, Coli.unbia and Ampersand will contact community service organizations. Eric t>octorow, Manager, CBS Records College · Promotion Department, said, \This unique contest theme gives the CBS Record's College Department the opportunity to achieve tllree important goals: lo encourage the development of community service involvement on college campuses; to foster the closest possible rapport between college campuses and CBS Records; and· to help bring Journey to another plateau of success.''- Randy Achee, Publisher of Ampersand, stated, \This: p.romotional effort allows Ampersand to further emphasize its commitment to servicing the needs ot colleges and their surrounding communities. We hope that this contest will be the first of many Sl.!ch projects.\ Official :Rules: L All entries must be received by Ampersand and Columbia Records no later than May 31, 1978, and will become the property ot Ampersand. 2. The report must outline a new project beginning·no-sooner than January I , 1978, but in operation by April 30, 1978. Entries must inClude starting date and the name of the individual student most re~ponsible for coo.,dinating the project. 3. Schools may submit reports about as many projects as they like, but each ~ entry must be mailed separately. Send all entries to: Ampersand Journey Contest, C/O Columbia Records, 51 West 52nd Street, · 9th Floor, New York, New '{ork 10019. 4. Entries will be judged solely by Ampersand and' Columbia Records, and their decision is final. Employees of Ampersand and Columbia Records, and their families, are not eligible. 5. Airfare and hotel accom- modations only will be paid by Columbia Records for the individual winner and a guest. I he Journey concert will be scheduled at a later date. which would provide an in-depth · frequent tor the students. comparative look at socialized I he next stop on the summer medicine in Europe. This term term was a three-week stay in was different from other terms Stockholm, Sweden. The group abroad at Union. l'he first was placed in a relatively dillerence is that three countries comfortable youth hostel and, Five Year Pharmacy would be visited, rather than the after a day or two of exploring by DOUG BURNS usual practice of studying for ten the beautiful and quite clean city, A new joint program with the weeks in one country. l'he first of were thrust into a series of Albany C61lege of Pharmacy has the three countries was England, lectures concerning the major been approved by the New York with the Union group being aspects of the Swedish health care State Education Department. The fortunate enough. to be stationed syst~m. Many interesting program, which accepts its first tor one month in the heart of academic tours were included as students next September, results London. After several days of an well. One of the mo~>t interesting in a Bachelor of Science degree in \acclimatization period,\ i.e .• a was a visit to Huddinge Hospital pharmacy and a Master of lour-day cram-tour of quaint old where the students were able to Science degree in health systems London and vicinity, the group of witness some of the most highly management. The program spans students were thrust into the first technological medical equipment five calend'ar years. part ol their European study. in use. The Albany College of Classes were held mornings Oue to ~he incredible Pharmacy normally ofters a B.S. Monday through Friday. The intlationary rate in Sweden,· degree in pharmacy in five years. afternoons were reserved for jthe group was quite Now, pharmacy students who academic field trips. One 6f the amazed at the prices in meet Union's graduate require- two basic courses to be studied Stockholm. A .. cheap\ dinner at a ments and who are selected for during the month stay in London, local MacOonalds (yes, they tile joint program, will enter it in a course in the histo.ry of medicine, branch· out as far as Sweden!) tlleir third year at the Albany .a probing look at development usually would cost close to $5.00! college. They will engage m a ol health care, was taught by As a result, activities were a bit version of the existing program in Professor William Bynum, more subdued than they had b~en Health Systems Management at celebrated medical historian. The I in London, where prices were Union's Institute of Administra- lormat of this course was a basic much. much lower. The group tion and Management (lAM), straight lecture. The other course occupied themselves by enjoying designed to mix with the covered the present National the Swedish sun, swimming, and undergraduate study in Health Service of England. Its taking advantage of the famous pharmacy. The students will be tormat was a seminar with Swedish Saunas. re<Juired to take one course in the. discussion. Much verbal From Stockholm, the group tall, one in the spring, and two argument occurred between boarded a ferry to cross the Hal.tic d'uring the summer. 'J'he · two teacher and student as well as Sea to reach Poland, the third courses during the academic year between student and student. The · and last nation of the trip. will be as part of the normal third impetus tor such a spirited class Oocking in Gdansk. a quaint' year load. Similarly, a total .of was that it was taught by a young seaside town, the Union .group four courses are taken duri11g the doctor whose beliefs strongly was introduced to what can be re~ular and summer terms of the echoed the feelings of the British considered the moSt foreign of all fourth and fifth years. ·rhe Government toward medical care. places they had visited. At\er a summer courses will be taught on I hese beliefs cont1icted at times two-day stay in I Gdansk, they the Union campus. with the American ideals held by boarded a train for Warsaw, the Thus, the students will take a many of the Union students. capital city of Poland._ Warsaw, total of twel~e graduate cour~es; However. by the end of the four- completely totalled dunng W.W.- the courses 1n,clude Introduction week period, the Union group felt II, is now completely rebuilt. to Health Systems, Eco11omic that the experience was truly Even a section of the \Old City\ Analysis with Application to mind-stimulating, and introduced has been restored. The group Health, Quantitative Models in new concepts available in health spent several days touring the Health Administration, Health care. health facilities in the city. Information Systems, Legal As mentioned earlier, after- including a trip to an amputee Aspects of Health Care as well as noon field trips were held fairly rehab center and . a children's the seven others. Basically. the frequently. The students had the hospital. These tours were among sUbject matter of the program in opportunity to see much of their the most interesting and Health Systems Management is to learning in practice. Trips to a informative of the summer. he offered in a context of rehabilitation institute, area With September nearing and cooperation with the Albany TIRED OFY~~:G LAUNDRY LET US TAKE CARE OF THIS CHORE FOR YOU AT REASONABLE PRICES. Security, Maintenance and .the Chemistry Department will :hold a Safety Education Demonstration on Thursday, March 2nd at 10:30 a.m. in Butterfield 204. The demon- stration will portray , tile dangers of mixing ·househ&Jd college. ·1 he program is designed to prepare students for managerial positions in health-related bus- inesses and institutions. The anticipated enrollment is twelve to fifteen Albany college ·Of Pharmacy students per class. ·1 he growth of the health care lield lies behind the creation of programs of this nature. Aaron Feinsot, dean of graduate studies and continuing education, men- tioned the increasing number of business positions being created in the field. He feels, as do many others, that the opportunities for a student of this joint program should be substantial. ·1 his new program is analogous to the existing five-year pro- grams at Union in areas such as computer science, engineering and management. The difference, ot course, is the involvement of two separate schools. Both schools are part of Union University. Sri Chinmoy Mystic Sri Chinmoy, an Indian mystic dictate 50 pages of a book, write and spiritual ma~ter who is I 00 or so poems or paint a few director of the lJnite.d· Nations hundred pictures, hold a Meditation Group, will give a free meditation at the United Nations concert and meditation at Union and give a lecture at a nearby CoJlege's Memorial Chapel on university. Saturday, March 4 at 7:00 p.m. w Chinmoy's concerts are unusual During his appearance at in that they combine spiritual Union, Chinmoy will demonstrate music and silent meditation into a samadhi - the yogic trance-state single experience - a meditation of deep cotnmunion With, God. in sound. With Sri Chinmoy will Then, while still in a. meditative be 4 instrumental ·and 3 vocal state, he will play several of his groups performing his music. own compositions on the ·esraj, an \l am not the musician,\ Sri Indian instrument with a Very Chinmoy declares. ''l am just an haunting sound. The music at this instrument. I am like a piano, time expresses the tlow of the violin. or guitar. It is God who is Master's inner mystical constantly playing on me, in me experience expressed as a and through me. God is the sequence of notes and harmonies. Supreme Musician.\ The United Nati·ons Meditation Some say'Chinmoy is a modern Group Cho.ir and various day version of a Renaissance instrumental ensembles will also ma,n. On any given day he might perform. J!IIIIICIIUIIIHIIICIIIIIIIIIIIIDitiiiiiUIIIDIIIIHIIIIIIDII11111it:lllllii~IIIIIQIIIUIIIIIII'5 g DISCOVER FINE DINI·NG i - . ~ i Enjoy fresh seafoods § ! prime ribs of beef i i choice steaks 1 - weekend entertainment a I The Dolphin I = D i Steak and Seafood House i I 1487 State St. Schenectady N~Y. g 1 call for reservations I § 377·6421 - 377-6422 a SENECA LAUNDRY a DRY CLEANER 1585 VAN VRANKEN AVE. 2 BLOCKS FROM NOTT ST. ; chemicafs. Y.he general public · 1 is inv:ited and all are welcome. g MAJOR CREDIT CARDS ACCEPTED . ~ . I ·~II ... IDI.......aii..UD~IIIIIIIIIIDHRIIIIIIil~l~l , by DOUGLAS ueotlrey Gol assist~nt profess science here received his B.S. Missouri School Metallurgy, his from Adelphi U1 ph.D. in 19 University of N taugllt comput Union for three ~ Prof. Goldbc engaged in rest known as cor Basically, this instead of wore computer what ' a visual repres' the computer is to Prof. Gold grapbics provid the computer.\ Practically, c have proved picture is il thousand word engineers to sil by using pictoJ (schematics) of which they are masses of figure even more a< graphics. Pr English Oep~ Contest Prizes totf a v~ila b le in co mpetitior: annually by tt English, th announced t year, entries I awards must later than FR 31. Announc1 will be made Prize Day, IV THE Al PRIZE is a~ in any depa ficti()n essay~ · be a revisec course, an specifically f( Length is n most entries and 30 pagt! The VAN was establisl the best es! freshman. come from a be written 1 pl'iz~. The YUD awarded to class who I best piece o: The D1 supervises entries for Of' AME PRIZE, aw1 the best· P' unllergradui Each prh labeled witt both the attached inside the E the student , . address. AI placed in ·envelope 1 name of th' · is submitt' · should be Depart mE H11manities Friday, I questions 11 Prof. 1' Humanitie! 6210). Geof- After mil two You ta~ eight. Sure, , dreaded fit But, Will l..J\O\'

CONCORDIENSIS, March 1, 1978 Computer Researeh by I>OUGLAS SNYDER Geoitrey Goldbogen is an assistant professor of computer science here at Union. He received his B.S. in 1965 from the Missouri School of Mines and Metallurgy, his M.S.\ in 1971 from Adelphi University, and his Ph.D. in 1971 from the University of Missouri. He has taught computer · science at Union for three years. Prof. Goldbogen is currently engaged in research in an area known as computer graphics. Basically, this uses pictures instead of words to ''show\ the computer what to do, and to give a vi~Ual representation of what the computer is doing. According to Prof. Goldbogen, computer grapbics provide a ''window into the computer.\ Practically, computer graphics. have proved invaluable; one picture is indeed worth a thousand words. Graphics allow engineers to simplify their work by using pictoral representation's (schematics) of the objects with which they are dealing, instead of masses of figures. I\ here are other even more advanced uses for graphics. Prof. Ooldbogen's English Department W~iting Contest Prizes totaling $800 are av·ailable in three writing competitions sponsored an11ually by the Department of English, the department announced this week. This year, entries for the following awards must be submitted no later than FRIDAY, MARCH 31. Announcement of winners will be made at ceremonies on Prize D~y, May ~· . THE ALLEN ESSAY PRIZE is awarded to seniors in any department for non- fiction essays. The entry may be a revised paper from a . course, an essay written specifically for submission, etc. L.engtb is not specified, but most entries range between 5 and 30 pages. The VAN ORDEN PRIZE was established to recognize the best essay written by a freshman. The paper may come from a course, or it may be written especially for . the priz~. The YUDIS PRIZE will be a warded to a student in any. class who has produced the best piece of fiction this year. The Department also. supervises and judges the entries for the ACADEMY 01' AMERICAN- POETS PRIZE, awarded annually for the best - .poem. by a Union undergraduate. Each prize entry should be labeled with a pseudonym on both the paper and an attached sealed envelope; inside the envelope should be the student's real name and , . address. All of this should be · placed in a large manlla envelope marked with the · narne of the prize for whic:h it · is submitted. the envelope · should be delivered to the Department ()ffice in Humanities 212, no ·later than Friday, March 31. Any. questions may be addressed to Prof. Nelson in the Humanities Building (Ext •. 6210). Geof- After missing weeks one and · two · You take a vatation for eight. Sure,. you missed the dreaded nu But, will you still graduate? ~.,.. -1-.J,.O•Y.l.\ :~il.t T~F;T.D.L. research deals with some of these. His earlier research dealt with a system to allow opthamo'logists to detect brain tumors affecting the fision without X-rays or surgery. This method begins with a visual field test in which the opthamologist determines the size and shape of the patient's visqal field. fhis data is fed to the computer which uses- it in conJunction with pt·ior programming to produce a schematic of the location, size, and shape of the tumor, all based on the tumor's effect upon ·the visual field. More recently, Prof. Foldbogen has worked wi~h the N.Y. State Criminal Justice Department on fingerprint identification. This divides into two systems. The first is known as the lO print system. 'I his allows local police depart- ments to check the fingerprints of ~ suspect against the files in Albany, increasing the speed and efficiency of the procedure. ·a he other system is more difficult. The bulk of the research is concentrated in this area. It is referred to as the latent print problem. Cases where blurred and unidentified prints are taken at the scene of a crime are problems smce cross-checking for a matching set of prints then requires an operator-computer team. Prof. Goldbogen stresses that .computers used to their maX:imum effecti.veness can be invaluable as inteUig.ent companions for workers and researchers in all fields. Research in computer graphics is bringi11g this concept closer to realization than ever before. - Don't miss the April 1st conference entitled,. \Roads to Careers for Women in Government' and Industry,\ held in the Social Science Building. '.hPre will be a panel discussion Skate-A- Thon Professor of computer science Geofji·ey Goldbogen Placement News- t.rom 9:20 A.M. to 10:15 A.M. 20036. I he loan program has The panel will consist of Linda been expanded in order to larr-Whelon, Administrative provide financial assistance : Director for the New York State during t·he final two years of · Department of Labor; Judith undergraduate study. Hope, Appointments Officer to l he most recent issue of Governor Carey; Betsy Gordon, Placement Recruitment Exchange Program Coordinator for the indicates a positive trend in hiring Affirmative Action Training for 197M. Nearly 600 employers Program; Margaret Conwell and said that they expect to hife 16 Heieri Croyle, General Electric per cent more new college Company. Following the panel graduates than in 1976-77. Hiring discussion there will be two is expected to be selective. workshop sessions teaturing the _ Further information states that areas of Management, Law, Sales opportunities tor \qualified\ and Marketing, Computer minorities and women will remain Spt(cialization, Financial excellent, especially for those with Management, Manufacturing, technical and/ o.r business Engineering and Technology, and backgrounds. .. How ·1 o Get Out of the On Saturday, April I, Phi cerul!cates. Secretarial Rut.\ Delta 1 heta is co-sponsoring its Registration forms will be l he Business and Professional .. l he New York State Department of Civil Service has announced that on April 8, 1978, an examination will be given for those interested in becoming an unemployment insurance investigator or trainee.\ Far more information ·and applications, come to the Placement Otlice. Applicatons must be postmarked no later than March 6, 1978 .. second annual Skate-A-Thon for available in the Student Activ- Women's Foundation is inviting the benefit of the Easter Seals ities otfice next week and the first applications from eligible women Society. I his year's event will week of spring term. Call Dave for loans for the 1978-79 take place trom 1:00 to 8:00 p.m. Ruff or Mark Chadurjian at Phi · academic year, under the Loan at the Achilles Rin:k. Last year's Uelta \I heta (383-9730) if you 1--'und tor Women in Engineering event raised over $12,000 - a have any questions. Come out Studies. Additional information mark which approached the and support Easter Seals while may be obtained from the HPW natiQnal r:ecord. showing the community that you 1--\oundation 2012 Massachusetts Last year, on-campus par- care. See yo1_.1 on the ice! Avenue, N. W. Washington, D.C. ticipation was pretty low. One of.-------~--------------------------------­ the reasons for this may have been that the campus as a whole didn't feel its participation was needed or overly encouraged. I his year, with the draw of Ned Harkness (and the hockey team) not going for us, your participation will be a great help. Prizes for the college participants 0 UNION C0LL.E.GE PUB RESTAURANT Yif c .:'>CHEN£LTAD;,N.Y. 1}..;08 I-f() L LO \V HAPPY HOUR Every Friday 4:30- 6:30 FREE popcorn!! FREE crack~rs & cheese!! ALL house drinks only 75¢!! Be There!! * * * * Who bring in the most muney 1 include gift certificates from the · Rathskeller, Pub, Hookstore and Ferro's Pharmacy, as well as a case of Heineken donated by the Social Committee. In add1t10n, all those people who bring in $25 or more will receive a Skate-A-Thon t-shirt. Finally, all those who skate will be eligible for an hourly ·\The. Weekender\ ·o UNION COLU:GE PUS ~ESTAURANT Yif / walter an4 waitreued meals DINNERS: 52.95-5.75 c 5CIJEN£t:!'I\OY,NY. 12Jo8 1--JOLLOW raffle of Pizza Hut gift LOOKING FOR A PLACE , TOTAKE AIR FORCE ROl'C? LOO'KHERE: RENSSELAER .POLYTECHNIC INSTITUTE Not all collE!ges and universities in the United States have Air Foree ROTC programs. And we recognize that many people want to enter the two or four-year program and are looking for a school where they can take it. Call or visit one of the AFROTC detachments listed above and ask about the '\Crosstown\ program. · Here are some more facts that may be of interest: • Courses are open to college men and women. • Full ss:holarships are available that pay tuition, books, and lab fees, plus $100 a month for other expenses. • You work tow~rd an Aii\ Force commission upon gradu· ation. '• You have an opportunity to sgrve your country as an Air Force officer. o You don't have to be enrolled in these schools to attend the AFROTC program there. Check it out right away. You'll find a brand new kind of op- portunity. For more infonnation, call or write: MAJOR LASTER_B. ~EADS AS & RC Rm. 317, RPl Phone 270·6236 ' ' . .. .QOTC Pitcher Wine or Beer r•••••••• Sl.OO off next visit with this eoupon 1•••11•••••••• c:1 one per customer I one time only I o ;... I i1 HOMESTYLE LAUNDRY I . ~ s 2733 GUILDERLAND AVENUE I ' t·-a (AT THE FOUR CORNERS) I ! ;a 377.1e1o I ·; 0 • .. ;t: 11 \Let Us Do Your Laundry For Yo1l' ·~· ; f I LAUNDRY . \\'.... WASHED-IRONED,...FOLDE:D-'PACKAGED . I = ! OR HUNG • Q • ' i. CONTRACT SERVICE AVAILABLE I ~ 41 MON.-FRI. 8 AM TO 6 PM B 0 0 &:1 SATURDAY 9 AM TO 2 PM • • • • · ~ . _ 51.00 oft' next visit with this coupon I •••••••.. one per customer/one time only -•••-• s RUPNICK'S 308'STATE' ST. 371·6486 SCHENECTADY FOR LEE .& LEVI JEANS AND- CORDUROYS - $11.,5 PRE..;W ASHED - $13.!)5 DOWN JACKETS & VESTS FRYE BOOTS PRO·KEDS ALL AT DISCOUNT PRICES

Page8 CONCORDIENSJS, March l, 1978- Art History and Humanities 1-111 by SUSAN BARNHART L'nion College, reknowned for its excellence in the fields of science and engineering has long suffered underrating of its humanities division. However this fact may soon become part of Union's distinguished past due to a growing interest in the arts and literature by Union students. This growth is chiefly being felt in two three part courses available in the English and the Art departments. These courses are Art History 1-lll taught by Professor Virginia Bush and the Humanities 1-IH, taught by Professms Heinegg and Freund, are now a part of the Union curriculum Art History 1-lll is the only course of its type offered presently by the Art department. They support the proposed idea of the addition of more art history courses in the Art department. The students agree that Art History 1-lll is an excellent set of courses to give the student a general o.verview of the history of art but su,ggest that a ten week term is limiting in that many topics must be examined very generally. Most interviewed seemed to support the three divisions of the ·course allowing the student to take all three courses or allows for the student to elect a certain area of the three major time periods which he or she has a particular interest in. Turning tq: an examination of the English department's Humanities course we find many differences in the emphasis of the co-urse for the student. Humanities, currently being taught by Professor Hans Freund emphasizes the histo~y of the particular time period being studied through a use of the literature and art of that time period. The general format of the class is very similar to Art History in that classes consist of lectures accompanied by a use of slides to illustrate the art .and sculpture of the time periods being studied. The course places a general emphasis on history, especially religious history as it is demonstrated by the works of art and literature of the time. The main te.xt of the course, Janson's History of Art, serves as a source for an elaborate history of .the times as well as a sourcebook for an fllustrative history of the times. Supplemental books are included in. the course to give the student a general overview of the writers of the time. The course can be seen as a general literary course with the use of art to supplement the readings and promote an understanding of the • time period being studied. Students interviewed about .the Humanities course expressed sentiments close to those taking the Art History course. Most felt the ten week term was too limited to delve into ~nything but a general C>verview of the times covered in the course. The division <>f the course into three general time periods was greatly supported because it allowed students to venture into areas where their seneral interest lied, ilt was pointed out that students wishing to .take further specia'lized courses in literature of a particular time period covered in the Humanities course were at a greater advantage than those students in the Art department wishing to take further c.o:urses. Presently the English department offers five other comses covering aspee;:ts of topi<;s covered in the Humanities courses. It is hoped in the future that rn()re courses may be added ip. both the English and Art departments to · bolster the strength . of Union College's growing bul'llanities division. These courses chiefly deal with the same general time period. The first section of both courses offered in the fall term emphasizes the ongms of civilization. Near Eastern, Egyptian, Hebrew and Greek civili~ations are studied within the initial ten week period. The second course, offered in the winter term, examines the period of the Middle Ages and the Renaissance. The third course deals with the Enlightenment and the period of Romanticism. Eats and Honky Tonks Although these courses deal with the same general time period how do these courses differ from one another in their approach to the examination of each time period? One student in Professor Bush's class explained it this way, '\In Art History we examine the art itself and how style and techniques were influenced by the history of the times. Our course <;onsists mostly of lectures accompanied by visual illustrations. Slides are used especially ·to learn the style and technique of the artists we are studying.\ The major text of the course, Hartt's Art: History of Painting, Sculpture and Architecture is used primarily as a source of illustrative examples but as the student pointed out the course does use Hartt's book as a reading source. The main purpose of this reading is to give a short but concise history of the art period being studied as well as focusing on individual artists and their technique. Students in Professor Bush's Art History course point out that although many studio art courses r------ ---- 1 by ED CLOOS Ill The year is 1970, the place a, small inc;lustrial burg in Eastern New York State. It is very cold, and mentally unsettled people are everywhere. In a downtown bar, t:hree customers stare into their drinks. It is mid afternoon, between the scanty rushes at noon and five. The sky is the. same color as the complexion of a Spanish Amencan War veteran. One of the customers, a dishevelled man in a 20-year old suit, begins to wheeze and hack. Pulling out a handkerchief, he expectorates profusely. One wonders if he is a pension.er from the UMW. The proprietor thinks to himself, \I gotta .get out of this business. Spend the rest of my life in Florida playing shuffle- board. Anything! If I have to touch much more saliva from drooling drunks, I'll go crazy.\ The bar is the Terminal GrilL No one is sure if the name refers to its proximity to the bus station, or if came about because the place is a terminal affliction. The joint is definitely low down. Now it's l978 (amazing what a high priced education will do for your perceptive capabilities), a~d the Terminal Grill has expired. The proprietor may be in St. Pete, and then again he may be in Scotia. Where drunks once I LEFT EXIT 14 {1.1 mile) l RIGHT ON KAVDEROSS PARK RD. Saratoga 1 ----------~------ THURSDAY, MARCH l GARY GOLDENBERG, ~TAN GEBERER- folk and original music LORI MATOCHA - folk/rock music M·.c. - Pete Sears Shows at 9:00 & 11:00. Ti~kets will go on sale at 8:H in the front hall of Carneaie. Any .left-over tickets ·will be sold at the door. MaXimum - 4 tickets per person. drooled, young business types new revel in three piece suits and mi4dle aged women nibble on salads while wonderittg why they must still watch their weight. A fetching young waitress fends off foolish .flirtations from a fortyish fop, confident of a. healthy tip. With a few exceptions, the Terminal will not be missed, having been replaced by a superior institution. I refer to the Oxbow Inn. I have long been chided by portions of the public for neglecting to mention this eatery. My reasons were rather silly. I have sought places which tended to be inexpensive, and which embodied the \flavor\ of Schenectady. What .. flavor\ you ask? I leave that to your discretion. The Oxbow, while a first rate eating and drinking establishment, comes off as rather unEiectric. Ye gods, snobbery from the bottom up. Clear this verbiage .aside, and you are left with a moderate to moderately expensive (in Electric City dollars) restaurant and bar. It is located just off State Street, in the center of the beehive of acttvtty comprised of GE, Schenecta,dy Community College,. and the bus depot. After several years in business, the stigmas of the old Terminal are dead. Replete with a decor best described as a derivation of the \Suburban Steakhouse\ style, and featuring roast beef and an assortment of broiled ste;:aks and chops, the Oxbow is packing them in. Previ<>us to this past week, my last visit there was a luncheon affair in December. The Spanish omelette <>f that afternoon is still fondly remembered. This time around my companion and l dug deep and decided to go out for dinner, the occasion being the eve of an excursion to lovely Ozone Park N.Y. and the Big A. After serious perusal of the four page menu, I opted for veal marsala. This dish consisted of veal sauteed irt burgundy sauce, and tC>pped with- mushrooms. The sauce was delectable, the veal a tad tasteless. My salad, while ample, was unimaginative. The veMetable course; broccoli with cheese sauce, apparently didn't kn(nv enough to· come in o11t of the cold. ·I came away stuffed but no~ satis_fied. My compani·ort, a Mas~chusetts collegian and passionate student of form, fared better. Sliced filet mignon on toasted garlic bread fulfilled his every wish. They· even remembered t.o heat his vegetable. What's more, the evening was \Electrified\ by a spirited .:onversation about gambling and 'Vegas at the next table. Di:nner for two, sans drinks, came to 5)15.00 before tip. Meanwb.ile, out in the sticks ... I stopped a few evenings ago at \The Bear\'s\ Steakhouse (Route 7, about two miles past Duanesburg) .. Rumor had it that \the Bear''\· sold a 22 oz. sirloin steak for S5.95, and a 2 lb~. steak for under. $9.00. \The Bear\ was unable to accommodate me in his homey esU!blishrnent, as he was booked solid for the entire night! I'll try again, John the Priest by AUDREY STEIN and ALAN ROSENBERG Reverend John Stanley Grauel will appear at Union on Sunday, April 2, 197g to open the Jewish Awareness Week and the UJA l-und Raising Campaign. Rev. l.irauel is a legend, but unlike most legends he is still alive. He aspired to the ministry and became pastor ot a sea parish on the coast of Maine. World War .II and 1ts first reports of Nazi perseeut10ns led him to Join the Amencan Christian Palestine Committee, an organization dedi- cated to the esta'blishment of the State ot Israel. He became intimate with the Jewish community and learned about the Haganah. Fascinated, he joined and volunteered to ride on the President Garfield, soon to be called the Exodus, as a galley boy. On thursday night, July 17, 1947, Reverend· l.irauel, long blond hair failing nearly to his shoulders~ tiny gold cross on a chain aroulid his nee!<, stood in the small cramped room aboard the newly re-christened ship, the Exodus. He soon appeared in the Qnderground in Europe, a mysterious figure, known to his co-workers as \John the Priest.\ He served tor seven months as a leader of the ill~fated vessel and his most celebrated exploit remams his participation in the \Battle. ot the ·Exodus.\ The Exodus affair and the evidence presented concerning it became a focal point for the United Nations recommending partition of Palestine and the eventual estab- lishment of the State of IsraeL ror over three decades Reverend Grauel has continued his unceasing eft:Orts on behalf of the State of Israel and yet has not been idle irt other fields. He st1ll preaches .and functions as a chu.rchtnan devoting that ef(ort almost exclusively to the black community. l-Ie has deep concern lor the \veneration_ Uap\ and working in youth fields, has not only taken. young people into his home, but has served on Drug and Hac1al tension l'ommittees. Besides being a United Jewish Appeal lect.urer, he is a speaker tor youth and much in demand on college campuses. Reverend. Grauel has been the recipient of many awards; Fighter tor Israel Medal. with two combat ribbons; Humanity Medal, shared with Pope Paul; Victory Jvfedal and Medal of Jerusalem as a founder of ·the State; Bnaj Brith Humanitarian Award, .and many additional honors froin Hadassah, National Council of Jewish Women and many others. In addition to Rev. Grauel the following events have been planned: Monday .. 4/3 Exodus, 7:30 SS '016 Wednesday, 4/5 Mrs. Doris Kronish lectqre on Soviet Jewry. Old t:hape-1, 7:3() I hursda;y, 4/tJ Movie, the lllegals, .dealing with the ill~gal immigratioll to Palestine. This will be followed by a discussion led by P:rof. 13erk. 7:30, Old Chapel. Admission to all events is free and the er.tire campus is invited. P1ease ~a tch for future announcetr1e11ts. -' • • f •\ I' \' \\.\\ \\f fo. .... f' .. -.JI' \\ .. Li] Co~tiJ1.ued R0om ot Sch: 4:30 p.m. Iilet: will be in Stn 11:30 a.m. rr Music Room' at 4:30 p.m mterview ineel on March cand:idate.. Je meet with co March 29th. hkewise ta~e 1 tower LaunJ Room ot Sc 11;30 a.m. respectively. the candidatt: tor their v avatlable at t 111 SchaeHet on the candi and may b' l'irculatJOn 1 to t-he Seard I he Searc pn,mg stu.dt Janet liregv1 I. niH:-. l'IIc'h- l>~rartlneFI<t \ -,~m:Iatt: D• Jd n I ud \\ t!! lt:~~or t:.l'n 1\ t~h.;~ lo e.'\. lor ~.:ampu~ ,ek.ctltlll prt 11.: ~o:eH t: a~ ll!L 111ent on th, I w th~·J. tht: C( V.t. The pos the Stu(! positions Ad,·isory position ( ·the Adrt now exist . Student for t h1 Admissi01 sign a Student J. Studen1 for the v1 must sign Hoc Co11 the St~dt Both li p.m., t Questiom to a mem ·on Comr ott j APJ Applica advisors ~ during th« term. Pie: RA, .fral · president, Student immediat• obtain regarding process. , be revie· conducte• three wet If you please c< . the Acth YOl ITS A FL TH

I. Page8 CONCORDIENSlS, March l, 1978 Art History and Humanities 1-111 by SUSAN BARNHART Cnion College, reknowned for its excellence in the fields of science and engineering has long suffered underrating of its humanities division. However this fact may soon become part of Union's distinguished past due to a growing interest in the arts and literature by Union students. This growth is chiefly being felt in two three part courses available in the English and the Art departments. These courses are Art History 1-Ill taught by Professor Virginia Bush and the Humanities 1-lll, taught by Professocs Heinegg and Freund. are now a part of the Union curriculum Art History I-III is the only course of its type offered presently by the Art department. They support the proposed idea of the addition of mme art history courses in the Art department. The students agree that Art History I-III .is an excellent set of courses to give the student a general overvieVI of the history of art but suggest that a ten week term is limiting in that many topics must be examined very generally. Most interviewed seemed to support the tl1ree divisions .of the course allowing the student to take all tl1ree courses or allows for the student to elect a certain area of the three major time periods which he or she has a particular interest .in. Turning tq an examination of the English department's Humanities course VIe find many differences in the emphasis of the course for the student. Humanities, currently being taught by Professor Hans Freund emphasizes the history of the particular t·irne period being studied through a use of the literature and art of that tirne period. The general format of the class is very similar to Art History in that classes consist of lectures accompanied by a use of slides to illustrate the art and sculpture of the time periods being studied. The course places a general emphasis on history, especially religious history as it is demonstrated by the works of art and literature of the time. The main text of the course, Janson's History of Art, serves as a source for an elaborate history of the times as well as a sol:lrcebook for an illustrative history of the times. Supplemental books are included in the course to give the student a general overview of the writers of the time. The course can be seen as a general literary course with the use of art to supplement the readiags and promote an understanding of the • time period being studied. Students interviewed about the Humanities course expressed sentiments close to those taking the Art History course. Most felt the ten week term was too limited to clelve into anything but a general overview of the times covered in the course. The division of the course into three general time periods was greatly supported because it allowed students to venture into areas where their general interest lied. It was pointed out that students wishing to take further specialized courses in literature of a particular time period covered in the Humanities course were at a greater advantage than those students in the Art department wishing to take further courses. Presently the English department offers five other •courses covering aspects of topics covered in the Humanities courses. It is hoped in the future that more courses may be added ip both the English and Art departments to bolster the strength . of Union College's growing h1,1manities division. These course~ chiefly deal with the same general time period. The first section of both courses offered in thefall term emphasizes the origins of civilization. Near Eastern, Egyptian, Hebrew and Greek civilizations are studied within the initial ten week period. The second course, offered in the winter term, examines the period of the Middle Ages and the Renaissance. The third course deals with the Enlightenment and the period of Romanticism. Eats and Honky Tonks Although these courses deal with the same general time period how do these courses differ from one another in their approach to the examination of each time period? One student in Professor Bush's class explained it this way, \In Art History we examine the art itself and how style and techniques were influenced by the history of the times. Our course consists mostly of lectures accompanied by visual illustrations. Slides are used especially ·to learn the style and technique of the artists we are studying.\ The major text of the course, Hartt's Art: History of Painting, Sculpture and Architecture is used primarily as a source of illustrative examples but as the student pointed out the course does use Hartt's book as a reading source. The main purpose of this reading is to give a short but concise history of the art period being studied as well as focusing on individual artists and their technique. Students in Professor Bush's Art History course point out that although many studio art courses by ED CLOOS Ill The year is 1970; the place a small industrial burg in Eastern New York State. It is very cold, and mentally unsettled people are everywhere. In a downtown bar, three customer-s stare into their drinks. It is mid afternoon, between the scanty rushes at noon and five. The sky is the same color as the complexion of a Spanish Amen can War veteran. One of the customers~ a dishevelled man in a 20-year old suit, begins to wheeze and hack. Pulling out a handkerchief, he expectorates profusely. 0 ne wonders if he is a pensioner from the UMW. The proprietor thinks to himself, \I gotta get out of this business. Spend the rest of my life in Florida playing shuffle- board. Anything! If I have to touch much more saliva fwm drooling drunks, I'll go crazy.\ The bar is the Terminal Grill. No one is sure if the name refers to its proximity to the bus station, or if came about because the place is a terminal affliction. The joint is definitely low down. Now it's 1978 (amazing what a high priced education will do for your perceptive capabilities), and the Terminal Grill has expired. The proprietor may be in St. Pete, and then again he may be in Scotia. Where drunks once ---11111-- -~ r----- 1 II Student or 1 non- Student 1 IIIQ-!1 FRI. : r111 MAR. 31: LEFT OFF NORTHWAY EXIT 14 (1.1mile) I [ RIGHT ON KAVDEROSS PARK RD. Saratoga 1 ----------------- GARY GOLDENBERG, STAN GEBERER- folk and original music LORI MATOCHA - folk/rock music M.C. - Pete Sears Shows at 9:00 & 11:00. Tickets will go on sale at 8:00 in the front hall of Carneaie. Any left-over tickets will be sold at the door. Maximum- 4 tickets per person. drooled, young business types now revel in three piece suits and middle aged women nibble on salads while wondering wh.y they must still watch their weight. A fetching young waitress fends off foolish flirtations from a fortyish fop, confident of a healthy tip. With a few exceptions, the Terminal will not be missed, having been replaced by a superior institution. I refer to the Oxbow Inn. I have long been chide<l by portions of the public for neglecting to mention this eatery. My reasons were rather silly. I have sought places which tended to be inexpensive, and which embodied the \flavor\ of Schenectady. What ''flavo£\\ you ask? I leave that to your discretion. The Oxbow, while a first rate eating and drinking establishment, comes off as rather unElectric. Ye gods, snobbery from the bottom up. Clear this verbiage .aside, and you are left with a moderate to moderately expensive (in Electric City dollars) restaurant and bar. It is located just off State Street, in the center of the beehive of acttvtty comprised of GE, Schenectady Community College, and the bus depot. After several years in business, the stigmas of the old Terminal are dead. Replete with a decor best described as a derivation of the \Suburban Steakhouse\ style, and featuring roast beef and an assortment of broiled steaks and chops, the Oxbow is packing them in. Previous to this past week, my last visit there was a luncheon affair in December. The Spanish omelette of that afternoon is still fondly remembered. This time around my companion and I dug deep and decided to go out for dinner, the occasion being the eve of an excursion to lovely Ozone Park N.Y. and the Big A After serious perusal of the four page menu, I opted for veal marsala. This dish consisted of veal sauteed in burgundy sauce, and topped with mushrooms. The sauce was delectable, the veal a tad tasteless. My salad, while ample, was unimaginative. The vegetable course, broccoli with cheese sal!ce, apparently didn't know enough to come in out of the cold. 1 came away stuffed but not satisfied. My companion, a Massachusetts collegian and passionate student of form, fared better. Sliced filet mignon on toasted garlic bread fulfilled his every wish. They even remembered to heat his vegetable. What's more, the evening was ''Electrified\ by a spirited conversation about gambling and 'Vegas at the next table. Dinner for two, sans drinks, came to $15.00 before tip. Meanwhile, out in the sticks ... I stopped a few evenings ago at \The Bear's\ Steakhouse (Route 7, about two miles past Duanesburg). Rumor had it that \the Bear\ sold a 22 oz. sirloin steak for $5.95, and a 2 lb. steak for under $9.00. \The Bear\ wa, unable to accommodate me in his homey establishment, as he was booked solid for the entire night! I'll try again. John the Priest by AUDREY STEIN and ALAN ROSENBERG Reverend John Stanley Grauel will appear at Union on Sunday, April 2, 1978 to open the Jewish Awareness Week and the UJA l-und Raising Campaign. Rev. Grauel is a legend, but unlike most legends he is still alive. He aspired to the ministry and became pasta£\ of a sea parish on the coast ot Maine. World War II and 1ts first reports of Nazi persecutiOns led him to Join the Amencan L'hnstian Palestine l\ommittee an organization dedi- cated to the establishment ol the State ol Israel. He became intimate with the Jewish community and learned about the Haganah. 1-'ascinated, he Joined and volunteered to ride on the President Garfield, soon to be called the Exodus, as a _galley boy. On I hursday night, July 17, 1947, Reverend · Grauel, long blond hair falling nearly to his shoulders, tmy gold cross on a chain around his neck, stood in the small cramped room aboard the newly re-christened ship, the Exodus. He soon appeared in the underground in Europe, a mysterious figure, known to his co-workers as \John the Priest.\ He served lor seven months as a leader at the 11l-fated vessel and his most celebrated exploit remams his participation in the \Battle ot the Exodus.\ !he Exodus affa1r and the evidence presented concerning it became a local pomt lor the United Nations recommending partition of Palestine and the eventual estab- lishment ol the State of Israel. l-or over three decades Reverend Grauel has continued his unceasing efforts on behalf of the State of Israel and yet has not been 1dle m other fields. He still preaches and !unctions as a churchman devoting that etfort almost exclusively to the black community. He has deep concern lor the ·•veneration Gap\ and working in youth fields, has not only taken young people into his home, but has served on IJrug and Racml I ension Committees. Besides bemg a United Jewish Appeal lecturer, he is a speaker tor youth and much in demand on college campuses. Reverend t.irauel has been the recipient ot many awards; l-ighter lor Israel Medal. with two combat nbbons; Humanity Medal, shared with Pope Paul; Victory Medal and Medal ol Jerusalem as a founder .of the State; Bnai Brith Humanitarian Award, and many additional honors trom Hadassah, National Council ot Jewish Women and many others. In addition to Rev. Grauel the following events have been planned: Monday, 4/3 Exodus, 7:30 SS \016 Wednesday, 4/5 Mrs. IJoris Kronish lecture on Soviet Jewry. Old Chapel, 7:30 I hursday, 4/6 Movie, The lllegals, dealing with the illegal immigration to Palestine. This will be followed by a discussion led by Prot. Berk. 7:30, Old Chapel. Admission to all events is free and the entire campus is invited. P1ease watch for future announcements. Li Continue< J{oom ot Sch 4:30p.m. me w1ll be in Str 11:30 a.m. r Mustc Room at 4:30 p.n mterview mee on March candidate, J, meet with C( March 2Yth. likewise take Lower L oun Room ol Sc 11:30 a.m. respectively. the candida! h\ir the1r \ available at m SchaeHer nn the cand .md may t l·n~ulatwn tn the ~care I he Scan prhlng ... tud .land (in:gc [ lliH ~ l'l·lci· I lt•p;Ht m!;n '\'LH.:tatc l J l.tn l udl\t; tl.·..,,nt hrn 1~ t\hC~ Ill r.: \ tor campu.., 'C kL'\11 111 pl l<..'l:·CI\t: a> !11 lllL'Ill 1\tl I 11 I tllti:L·t. the u v lhe po the Stu po!>itions :\dYison position ·~ the Ad1 now exist ~tuden for t h Admissiu sign a Student Studen for the v must sigr Hoc Cot the Stud Both I p.m., Question to a me11 on (:om AP Applic1 advisors during th term. Ph RA, fra president Student immediat obtain regard in! process. be revh conducte three we If yotl please c the Acti YOl IT~ A Fl Tt-



r. ·. 1 ), ; • r J CONCORD!ENSJS, March 1, 1978 Page9 Librarians con't Continued from Page .I Room ot Schaetler Library for a 4:30 p.m. meeting. Oavid Fraser will be in Strauss L otmge for an II: 30 a.m. meeting and in the Music Room of Schaeller Library at 4:30 p.m.; both of these mterview meetings will take place on MaTch 14th. I he third candidate, Jean Pelletiere, will meet with concerned parties on March 21Jth. Her meetings will hkewise take :place in Hale House lower Lounge aFld the Music Koom ol Schaetter Library, at II :30 a.m. and 4:30 p.m., Fespectively. Information about the candidates and the schedule f.~)r their visits Will also be available at the L'Irculation Desk 10 Schaelfer library. Comments nn the candidates are requested ,md may be returned to the ~__·.r~ulatwn Desk .for transmittal tn the ~carch L'ommittee. I he Search L'omm1ttce. com- J'INng .... tudmt. Sarah Dearing. .land liregor !rom the ltbrar:. l ntll~ l'I·Ichcr of the Phy~1c:-. l>t·p;nt men t. Da \ 1d I'll t h. '\'\>Ctat\.' I kan of 1-acult~. and l.tn I ud1\ 1g. l'h!lo:.opil~ Prn- Jr .. ·~\'' hcn1ng a~ l'll;urrnan). 1\ 1,hc, to c \pn:~~ a sinl-ert· dr.:~tre lnr c;nnpu~ Ill\ ol1 <::111\.'Bt In tht.: ,ckdllll1 ptllL·e~~. ,wd hnpt.:.., to t<.'l\.'1\C a~ rnuch cun,truc.:tl\ c L\om- llll'llt 11T1 t 11.: rnatll\l a' pP,~Ihlt:. I .llth·J. t11l· ~ llflllllltt\.'c 1\l,lte~ tu COMMITTEE VACANCIES lhe position of Secretary to the Student Forum, two po!>itions on the Presidential :\d,·ison Board, and one position (for seniors only) on the Admissions Committee now exist. ~tudents wishing to apply for the Secretary or Admissions vacancies must sign a special list in the Student Activities Office. Students wishing to apply for the vacancies on the P AB must sign the Vacancy and Ad Hoc Committee List, also in the Student Activities Office. Both lists will close at 4:30 p.m., Friday, Marc·h 3. Questions should be directed to a member of the Committee on <.:ommittees. ORIENTATION ADVISOR APPLICATIONS Applications for orientation advisors were made available during the first week of spring term. Please check with your RA, fraternity or sorority president, or stop by the Student Activities Office immediately upon return to obtain further details· regarding the application process. All applications will be reviewed and interviews conducted during the first three weeks of spring term. If you have any questions, please contact Joe Zolner in the Activities Office. tmpress upon the L'ampus, the importance ot tinding a capable leader tor the library, and urges that the new Director must push lor a lot more money if the library Is to be able to make necessary acquisitions m the luture. Comm·ittee Continued from Page 3 she wishes to serve agam. I he Committee on Committees Will tirst review all applications without names attached, and then make tinal selections alter attaching names and doing character relereHces and 1 nterv 1ews w'h en deemed necessary. Attaching cash gitts to applications Will not aid in your sdectwn. but will make the L'ommtttee very happy. In any C'-ent, start thinktng about applytng now because late applications will not be accepted. \llort:: mlormatwn will be made a1aiiablc ll1 the ftrst Issue ol l'\)\l\ORlHl :\SIS dunng the :.pnng tcrhl. An~ont:: who plans to ht• av.a) ne:\t tnm l\ urged to cllntal\t a mem her ell l he l \llllll1Ittet.: (lll l'ommtttee~ no\\ t(l make arrangt.>mcnb lor .tppl~ 111g. l otnmittet.: 111\.'mbers are .lo-:\nn :'1.1cs~ma. .let! '\.dlt:ltllngcr. \lurr~ I C\Ison. \l1h\ \ratt' amJ \latt I tthart. SPRING TERM REGISTRA liON Spring Term classes will begin at 8:30a.m. on Monday, March 27th. Student schedules will be distributed to college mailboxes prior to the beginning of classes. Students who do not receive a copy of their class schedule will be able to secure a copy at the Alumni (;ymnasium at 8:00 a.m. on the first day of classes. Formal registration and validation of I.D. cards will take place in the Gymnasium on\ Monday and Tuesday, March 27th and 28th, from 11:45 to II :30 a.m. and from 1:00 to 4:00 p.m. Students should report as follows: Last Name Report: A • E Monday morning F • K Monday afternoon L • R Tuesday morning S - Z Tuesday afternoon Students may report at a time other than above should clases interfere. Registration will not be permitted if a student has not settled his spring term bill and any other outstanding indebtedness to the College. The Business Office will handle late payment of term bills and resolve billing problems at the Gymnasium. Completion of and changes in schedules will be handled at the Gymnasium from 8:45a.m. to 4:00 p.m., except for the noon hour. Friday, March 31st, is the last day for making · schedule adjustments. \Pass-l'ail\ requests may be filed during the first three weeks of the term. The deadline is April 14th. YOU'VE WAITED ALL TERM ... liS FINALLY HERE ... A FUNNY THING HAPPENED ON THE WAY TO GRADUATION the new hit musical comedy MARCH 7 AT!» AND 11 IN CABARET Tickets $1.00 on sale Friday, March 3, 1 p.m. in Carnegie The fever is spreading - CATCH IT!W!!!! . Continued from Page 2 and not speak out. l hough some people have .said diHerently, I. fe~l stron~y the number one priority at school is the student. For the amount of money that the · student is paying to attend Union, I teet he is entitled to tllis .. number one\ status. · Paralleling this posftion, the -primary purpose ol the protessor 1s clearly executing his instructional talent. 1 don't disagree that the protessor !5;hould have greater attributes than solely his ability to teach. But the emphasis must be placed on his pure teaching skill and· at>ihty to get ideas acro~s to h1s students. r .simply cannot understand how lJ mon t'ollege can let such a valuable a~el as Prolcs~or Kenney go by the bo<tn.b. He 1s a line mstructor, onl.! ol the ht.:st 1 have cncounkr\.'d m my L nion t'olkg~J c.\pemmcc. And not only does ht,: d !splay a grca t ab1llty to communicate with hts students. he also ha\ a g.n~at tn\OI\cment w!lh the campus and the community. I am not onc~hulidn:d percent dear on the tenure process and the yualltlC!i ol the The deadline date for applications for the term abroad in Socialized Medicine is March I 0, Friday. For more information see Prof. Robert Baker or go to Humanities Room 211. proh:ssor which are judged. Let me simply say that the college's goal should be one ot improving the academic standards· and quality of the teaching staff. Depriving the students of the best could be called nothing but an injustice, and such an inJusti~ is being committed by not granting such a fine protessor tenure status. • nmsance To the Editor: We heartily agree with Steven Glazer's letter on dogs in your.l-'-eb. 22 1ssue. We have lound them to be a constant nmsance ~mce we have been here at l;ruon, especially m the last tV.t.l years. Oogo. who run loo~t.: go ~ca,engtng tn the garbagc. run m packs. bark outstdc dorms dtsturhmg restdents, go pnopie m the most mcon\entent place!;. heg tor f-ood. h1te. attracl -other oil-campus dogs. bark. mstde and outside class hu1ldmgs bothermg prnkssor~ and classes. tight. and hark. There will be an audition for \Feiffer's People\ by Jules Feiffer Monday and Tuesday, March 6 and 7 in the Nott Memorial. Sign up in the Green Room of the Nutt for tryouts. Copies of the script are on reserve at Schaeffer Library. and ptay in the libran mention .JUst a lew annoyances. We realize that there are well disciplined dogs on campus and ·we have no complaints against the,m, However, there are way too many undisciplined do.gs to ignore and we think stringent measures shoul<l be taken to. control them. It is not enough to go to Security with complaints unless Jt is against a specific dog; to say one dislikes dogs In general roaming loose the campus is useless they have no way ot 1dentilymg the \culpnts.\ Measures are net:ded. tht>ugh perhaps not as expensive as those Sleven (ila;er su,ggcsted. and wt· \\OUld be more than Willing to help cntort:e thern. We do npt t-btnk t.t ~~too mud1 to ask that llWnt:r~ b\.' I'l\'-P~~n~thk tort heir do go, tn1 Pf1\.'. 1! they l..\<tn 't d.: I \lt\.' t.:nottt!h It me to the c.Jrlllg ol th~H pet:-. till'\) ~ilouldn't h,· <tllo\\l:d l\l hah' them. JUU h..:,lf .. k'. dn!!\ ,tTl' un ~,;ampu' h) tht· ,tudcnt:-..' pl.' rm ~~~1on ami tht' ol\lltT~ ~houldn 't takt: aLh ,l!ltagc of that tact. CONCEUT POSTPONED i\. performance of Brahms' ··A German Requiem\ by l nion College's Men's and Women·~ (;lee Clubs, originall} scheduled for Feb. 2M, has been postponed. Maurice B. Graubart & Sons FOR RENT --·----------'The Jay St. Jeweler' Four bedroom, Partially . furnished apartment for rent at Peter Pause Restaurant at 535 Nott Street, Call 382-9278. 'Serving Union For Three Generations' 166 Jay St. Quality Service &: Fine Workmanship ' (:: ;:·:;: ;:; :;:: ::::::::::::::::::::::::::: ;: ::::::: :; : ;:: :;:;:;:;:: :i:: :::::;: i:: ::::::::: :i:: :::::::: :~: ::: :!: :::; .. :: :::.:.:: :·:.:.: !: ::.:-::: ·:.::: .:·:::: ::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::: ~:::::::.::: :::::::::::::::::::: :·:.:.:.: ·:. :·:. :·:·: ·: -:·:. ·=:::. THE _ ~ Fine Food In A cranfufiY~ Casual Atmosphere ~ A Nice Way To End The Day 56 Wolf Road Across From Colonie Center Friday-Saturday Soup & Sandwiches served 'til 2 A.M. 459-5110 !!L.,§.~=::;,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,.,.,.,.,.,_,_,_,_j: TULLOCK'S MINI MARKET corner of Nott Terrace & Liberty Sts. PHONE# 374·4820 YOUR LITTlE BIT Of EVERYTHING STORE All Your Party Open 7·11 1 Days Needs If Dairy Products Se Serve Gas FULL LINE \~~' Ice Cream OF DELI @ ~:eead/Cookies 56.9 60.9 HOT SANDWICHES Hot Sandwiches Arco A reo Unleaded COFFEE· TEA HOT CHOCOLATE Snacks Magazines, Newspapers Prices subject to change 2 S ~ \\' Books ill . - • I II PEPSI-COLA RUFFLES POTATO CHIPS J I ~'i1:~~ 99 ~ oa:~ArE 6 9 ~ co~·.~~ get ~ ili\ acquainted ~ ti FOOD STAMPS ACCEPTED LOTTERY TICKETS li\~~~:}1:~~ 1 ;.~~i;~~~=;~;~q~*lt&.-i1~~~=~~~:~:~~~m~i~~*:~~~~~~t~f:~~~:~i:;:~:~~::~:~~l:~~~~~=~f~:~:l:;f:~:~~:~:~:::~:~::~:::33;~::*i:*@~~f::l:~~$~:tt1~:R~%~~~~f:tl~~[i~~l:;~~~~~~~:3~~g~~:::~~t::1:i'%~~~§§ft§&~~tn::::;~~:~r·::::::::~~.r~~~~~=§~:::':i.i .@W~~rn~~

Page 10 CONCORDIENSJS, March 1, 1978 6port5 The Long Weekend of Kevin Scheuer and Bob Moffat by ROCKY DOLAN K~vin Scheuer stood high in the 4th lane of the banked Madison Square Uard~n track and, leaning over, motioned to a triend who had come down to Wish h1m well. \I his is it,\ he emphasized. ''I'm geing to run my race and do the best l can.\ With that. and a g~od-luck slap, he was oil -- down the track tor his tina! warm-ups before he was to run in the \ational Amateur Athletic L man I UOU yard run final. Am1dst the brightly colored (jarden 1ntenor and dwarted by the mammoth/33rd Street ceiling, I ~ ' the thin, slight JUnior exuded only mini-mal pre-race calm and confidence. Warming up, Scheuer never drifted farther than necessary I rom his one recognizable home terriroty - the drab green (jarden track that he so much hoped would prove to be h1s t1cket to legitimacy in an uncomfortable situation. As sharply-attired contestants tam1liar to one another Jogged and talked together. the grey- suited Scheuer stayed on his lamiliar ground. He remained alone on the track as long as possible between races, head down, warming up and rehearsing his \own race\ in his mind over and over. l::.vents passed with ever- increasing quick.ness and time drew rapidly near. Sweat suits were peded off, r~vealing seven lithe, well-trained .athletes over whom the crewd hummed with (l,nticipation. Introductions wer~ the iirst order of business, and Scheuer, in the post po-sition was announced simply as \Kevin Scheuer - Union College.'' Sub- sequent national champions and assorted Olympians gave cheerful waves to the crowd, .but it was hometown Olympian Byron Dyce who was obviously the taverite of the New \ ork audience. As the crowd came ahve, Scheuer enly kicked nervously at the starting obvieus that to do well was not tar from reach for Scheuer. The tightly packed band ·of runners bounced rhythmically .around the sharp-cornered Uarden track and it appeared to be anyhody's race~ Watching from an unusua:l vantage point high up in the third tier ot seats was Boh Moffat. Seeded with the seconcHilstest. time in the 600-yard dash, Moffat tell behind in an earl~ heat and ended up fourth, failing to qua.fify tor the finals. Watching !Scheuer, the benetactor of a srnaU fieM that resulted in only a final h~at, Moflat was a · picture of Jrustratioil, disgust, and hope. \l ,could have run .so much better, but JUSt didrft,\ he . commented \but ifs not the ·end ol the world .~ we've gotten some good experience for the IC4A's. I h1s is a long way horn running Wi'lliams or Plattsburgh.\ Ridiculously tar down below, Scheuer was learning the hard way exactly how far from 'running in Schenectady he was. Like the ,, inexorably s'low feeling one gets when talling in a dream, Scheuer was drifting backwards thr-ough the pack. 1 he crowd of 13,975 oblivious to one young man's personal battle against a welling fear ot taHing behind, cheered Dyce on into first, where he would remain for only a short while. Kevin, maintaining still the mechanical composure and pace that has become !tis trademark, tell behind and lost contact with the leaders. line. When the command of \to your marks\ was given, Kevin moved quickly into place ana· waited as the other competitors sauntered into place and settled themselves. I he gun sounded, elbows !lew, and the congested pack of seven. ~as into the first turn. * * * * It was two weeks ago that Scheuer's actual trip to that first turn had begun. In Syracuse's Manley Field House Scheuer and teammate Bob Moftat had earned themselves the right to national rankings and invitations to major . meets for the rest of the short indoor season. 1'-'or Union~s All- American duo recognition on a national scale had been well- deserved but short in substance in the past, and Scheuer~s 2: lOJ:l and Moffat's 1:10.7 catapulted them into the chance they felt they deserved for so long. \Running here against slow competition has always made it much more difficult to get any invitations\ was the way the well- renowned Moffat put it ··and meets like the AAlJ are just what we need for experience to do well in maJor college meets ... I he truth m these words is only too v.ell borne out by the past htstory ul l;mon's memorable aces. At Pnnccton, New Jersey's 1977 l::.astern L'ollegiate Cham- p10nships, the two unseasoned spnilters ran unreasonable tactical races and here were \What did I miss'!\ asked the mystified Scheuer later. \I Jacked the explesiveiless tile leaders had. When they want, they JUSt took ott and maintained whatever they gained. It seemed' like a different race alter that.\ As J-arleigh -Dickinson's Uid$!on I urer moved confidently into the lead with the short laps remaining, all but 15 or so of the crowd applauded the smooth striding leader. rhe other 15, Union College students who paid $H for tickets and drove three hours to the meet~ were getting their money's worth cheering for Scheuer, as he regained his composure and staged a rally. * * * * Over the unresponsive hoard track Scheuer rallied his .senses \' forced to come on from far -, behind.nA measure ot their sheer talent 1s how they ran there , .· .. ~ ~+.···: t.d .. ~ Moltat second. Scheuer fifth and $ ~, both named All-American for . ~ .. .-;, ~ their ellorts. A long sigh of relief was breathed by both standouts then after their AAU invitations arrived the weekend after their Syracuse races. \!'his was our chance to get some exposure to good competition,\ said Scheuer \and we wanted to do well.\ \' * * * As the race moved through the h\M!iiil'f1[!,t(;1;.i;i~:;;f)irf:t;; second of its six laps it was was once agl:lin the Scheuer he always was, reeling in a tiring competitor off th:e final turn and finishing strongly m sixth place, 'l-aced with what he called .a \bad race;.. the brave JUnior had scraped down, faced giving up, and stared llis . p.ain and 1 rustratJon down, winning an important personal battle. As Uideon Turner circled the track triumphantly to the applause of the crowd, Scheuer returned to his trackside fl:·.iend and made the har<'lest coilcessi.en that perhaps there is to make. His best simply hadn't been enough, he acknowledged. But with a smile through the breathing, there was a glint in his eye that indicated a lesson learned' and wa.iting for use. A pole vaulter with red and white suspenders Jogged by, a security official .&sked: the friend to step back, and Scheuer . retreated to his sweats,. ami: lingered, possibly to enjoy the feeling of having been somewhere speQial, a.nd then walked past high JUmper Dwight Stones and went below the stands. lwo hours later, .after watching a late Marty Liquori rally in the three-mile, Mot'tat and Scheuer piled into a car with Coach Chuck James, and ·headed for the open road. In a state that far precluded any sleep, it was 4 o'clock in the morning before the PIJ.ir reached Schenectady and thei.r respective, well-deserved beds. * * * * A necessary postscript must include the events of the following day. Awakened by 10 o'clock, MoUat and Scheuer once again chrnbed mto a car, this time heading lor I roy and R.P.l.'s Invitational. Am1dst the dreary rums ot an ancient Armory-type tieldhouse the competition was nevertheless very keen. I he attitude among participants was mixed, some looking to trim the national contenders on an off day, and others fawning in front ot them. askmg the inevitable - \What was it like'!\ I he easy-going freewheeling atmosphere (compared, say, to Madison Square Uarden) ol that R.P.l. armory masked a very real determination of the pair to set their records straight. lhe demands of the day first fell on Mottat. Handed the stick 15 yards behind on an anchor leg of the two-mile relay, Motlat turned a tense, close race into a runaway. Demonstrating unusual accelera~ Hop, Moffat len his unfortunate co,unterpa,rts some 20 yards arrears tor a first 'easy' win. .. Scheuer: followed in the mile. As if following to the \l the lesson he had l~arned the previous evening, on the .seventh of the nine laps a sudden explosion by the Scotia JUnior lett a gasping r:ival wondering what happened. l he satisfied look on Scheuer's Jace was seen again very soon afterwards with a runaway HlOO yard win, In the 'middle of those two performances, Moffat brQke apart a fast 600 yard field for his second :easy' win. I he fitting finish to this epic two-day, three~city &aga was yet to be written, however, and it came, as it .tends. to, in the final event of the day, the mile relay. Alter running a hard race each in a City 150 miles away against the best competition in the world, traveling all night, and finishing ~p two races apiece o,ut ~11 fwnt, the amazmg. unredoUbtable p;ur appeared.eager lor the mile rela}. Scheuer, on the third leg. ran a game race but could do no better than to hand Moltat the s.tick 15 yards behmd a noted Hagerstown Jumor College entry. Completely spent, Scheuer could not be st1ll. cheering tor Moftat and h1s pursuit. W1th lOU yards remaining, there was ~till an impossible margin to be made up. At 15 yards. the din created by the crowd was overwhelming. Mottat had made nearly the entire distance !!P· In the d1m light ot a lading day, the $tandout llung himself across the line ahead ol the Hugerstown ~ntry. Pandemonium ensued. MoJtat was literally scraped off the track by Scheuer and other members of the team. sure that he had. as always, made up the ground tor the team. I he Hagerstown team as well let up a celebration. Both teams apprehensively claimed vic· tory, and it was only after a long meeting of the official minds that Union learned its leaders' efforts had been in vain. Union was second 10 the relay, Moffat and Scheuer gathered their belong•ng~ and Walked oft 1h a state of q UJCt that usually results ltoin complete physical exhaustion. Never had so fe.w done so much in such a short t1me on so little. A shrug ol the shoulders, and, gasping tor breath. Mottat turned towards Scheuer and mentioned, ••JC4A's next Saturday.\ Kevin shrugged and summed 1t all up, '\t eah.\ REWARD offered for the return of my SR-51A, whieh was remo-ved .from the North Win& of die Seienee & EnlineeriDJ Bulldina on Mon· · day, February 13th. W. Jolm White - Delta Chi NO QUESTIONS ASKED •• T

' · · · co'NcoR.nt'ENSJS, 'March t 1978 Mike· Smith Plays •.. As the buzzer in the RPI Field House sounded,marking the end ot the 65-59 upset victory of Union over R.P.I., it also signaled an end to the long distinguished intercollegiate athletic career of senior L'aptain Mike Smith. Smitty. also known as Bamboo, has been a two-sport standout lor the Dutchmen through four up and down years. As a freshman Jayvee. Smith saw the last ot Union's \g-boy\ basketball boys, and as a tour-year starter in soccer was a member of the EL\.A.L playott teams. rwice soccer captian, Smith was elected captain ot this year's basketball team alter leading the 1976-77 group wtth 305 points, and as ot last night's contest had tallied 356 points, aga1n leadi•ng the Dutchmen. And so. after some (approximately) 140 intercollegtate contests m which he wore the IJColl jersey. Smitty's hanging 'em up and heading tor the big June date with graduation. I he entire sports stat! here wtshes him the best. Page 11 .· .. Last Game V. BPI ... ... Thanks For The Memories «<&/\ '<iJifJir ~:j . . .J.~ .. ,, '~ \l® ~ .'§ ' ''%1:·<>' ~\\-,l· g~., ''fi: :{~ ~ ~~~· ·'?' §• ·\f. --.:~~ .~.~ ·!:~ .'~ ·~ .: ~~·o...'

' > Page 12 CONCORDI.EN\SIS March I, 1978 6port6 . ': ·.· ' . . ' . ' '. . . . . ' ' - . . . . . . ' Women's B-Ball Win Streak at Seven by LYNN BATEMAN continue, and did so quite lhree tormidable opponents expertly in their game last were the next and final games of I hursday, tromping Ulster the year tor the winning Dutch- ·c.c.c. by the high score of S8-59. women, but the confidence of the The IJutchwomen played very team seemed to vanquish any well and hustled lor every point, anxieties which their foes may keeping U Isler out by superb have created in them. The Union defense and skilltukj.nterceptions. hoopsters were on a winning As' Union piled on point after streak whi~h they wanted to point, the tans began chanting for S'W\immers Shine At State Meet by PETER MARTINI lhe Union College Swim'Team ended its regular season on a losing note last ruesday v. Oneonta, but performed superbly in the State meet at Colgate over the weekend to finish off their year. · Against Oneonta the final outcome once again came down to the final relay. Needing a win in the event to tie the meet, Union fa~ered against a very talented treestyling Oneonta State team. I he enthusiastic Union team took many second places but had to sit back and watch as Oneonta continually took first places in all but a few events. Oneonta's performance was highlighted by its sensational diver who looked a little out of place diving up into the cut out ceiling at t'oote ·Pool. Union's enthusiasm and efforts put forth this year left no doubt that they would have been 10-1 in the water polo event. At Colgate last weekenp the contingent of swimmers from Union swam their finest in the Upper New York State Swimming Championships. As a team Union finished lith, in a strong field of Oivision I, I I and Ill teams. Junior IJoug Richardson earned points for his 13th place finish in the 1650 freestyle and 13th place finish in the 500 freestyle which broke his own school record of 5: ll.K Doug was also a member of the HOO yd. freestyle relay which set a new Union record of 7:43.!S, and placed 9th. Richardson also swam on the 400 freestyle relay team which finished lith and came close to the Union record· set in 1964. Senior co-captain Jim Lowe broke his own school record in the 200 breastwke finishing Hth with a time of 2:19.6 and finished 6th in the IOU yd. breastroke. Lowe was a member of the 400 freestyle relay and the 400 medley relay team which missed breaking the school record by eight-tenths I . ot a second, as well as the 800 free-style relay. Another member of the 400 medley relay was Mark Peronta who earned a 12th place in the 200 buttert1y closing in on the 9 year old Union record. Also on the relay team was first-year swim , teamer, senior Tom Broadbooks : who continued his amazing , improvement by placing 15th in the 100 backstroke, and 17th in the 200 backstroke. Freshman· Wes Jakovic had \his finest meet of the year\ according to Coach Bob Magee as he swam the 100 yard freestyle in 51.08 and later came back to anchor the 400 free relay in 50.5.' Wes also swam a powerful leg of the 800 freestyle relay as he and Doug Richardson had identical 1:54.4 times for their 200 yd. legs. Although not .plaCing for points Phil Heubner swam a spectacular 100 butterfly time of 57.9, for his best time ever. Co-captain Tom Burgess did very well swimming the 200 backstroke in 2:22 and the 100 yd. backstroke in I :04.5. Dave Alley established his best time ever in the 200 breastroke at 2:29.6, and placed 17th in the IOU breastroke. Andy Berquist added a 17th place in the 1650 freestyle. I he tine perlormance of the group is' more impressive, realizing that instead of being well rested tor the States, Union swam tour meets the week before. l'his year!s record ot J-7 should vastly improve in 1979. Although co- captains Lowe and. Burgess along with backstroker Broadbooks will be gone, several new arrivals and the returning members of this year's team will mold into a fine squad. Freshmen Jakovi.c, Herquist, and Alley will all be back, -along with top point getters Richardson and Peronto. Sophomores of this year's team, Heubner, Wynn, uuistra and diver Rick Herman should team well with Juniors King, Goidel and Oiver Priscill Jennings to provide added support. Swimmer Andy Berquist 100 points, but Union didn't quite make the mark and settled for 1 2 points less~ pleased to have won another 011e. I he Clarkson game which had been postpened until this past Saturday sheuld have been postponed indefinitely for the Clarkson squad, as lJnion stayed tight in the first half and then pror,eeded. to run away with the lead in Hte second halL Under- estimating opponents had taught Union a lesson, and they played with a de&ire which saw them through to a 6440 win. Jill Henry played an important role in this game by scoring 29 points, with a tield goal percentage of lB% I he last home game and t.he hnal game of the season was against the mighty 'Gate,-who in, past years had l>lown the Dutch- women out by as many as 40 points a. game. Colgate's confidence was enormous as they looked for-ward to another quick and easy win, but the Dutch- women had a surprise which helped them dominate Colgate for the entire first half, and tliis was their newly :discovered teamwork. Colgate was stunned and the fans were sthred as Union played probably their best game of the year, and almost had the game clinched when Colgate went man to mail and settled to the task of taking the- lead and winning the ciQse game 72-63. Jill Henry was again the highlight of the game with 23 points and IK rebounds. Even tlloa.gh Union did not win, they knew they had played their hardest and had earned every one of their wins. lhe IJutchwomen's final record is 9-.7, and this is the first time in the history oJ Union women's Ul>all that there has been a winning season. Many more are expected, thanks to the talents of Sheila O'Oonnell and her sky-high JUmpshots, Jill Henry and Iter ··inspiring\ jokes, Andrea Sowers with her tough rebounding and lightning hands, Kathy ··c!ldet\ Lett and her third- row-bleacher shots, Sandi Key and her tall talent in center court, l>ebbie Sears and her turnaround jumpshots~ om favorite walk-on Qualify 4 Four Union College wrestlers have qualified for the NCAA Div. Ill championships as a result of strong showings last weekend. Paced by Captain Jim Sutton ol Hoosick Falls, the other members ()f the wrestling squad eligible ·to compete in the nationals at Wheaton, Ill., on March I 0\ I !, are George Redder of Saugerties, Josh Salzmann of Pittsfield, Mass., and Matt Van Benthem of 'Schenectady. Sutton, a senior, finished fifth in the New 'York State Invita- tional meet at Rochester Institute last week. He owns a regular season mark of I g victories against tour <lefeats in his !58 pound class. Redder; a Junior, who wrestles in the 142'pollnd division, has lost only one match in 15 starts this year, and also finished with a fifth place standing in the state invita- tional. Van Benthem, a junior, was tomth at Rochester, and owns a record of 12-l-1 in the 167 through 190 pound class, While Salzmann, a junior who wrestles at 177 potmds, finished 5th in the invitationals, and has a season mark o:f 9 victories, two losses and . on~. tie. Athlete of the Week Sheila 0 1 Donnell pro Jill I homsen, Dot Scarpinato and her ballhandling '(before the cast), and our other injured players, Cathy .. Hustler\ Reals, and Kathy Mahar.. Coach Lynne Barta served her .. small\ function superbly by pulling all of this talent together into a cohesive ,. and winning team. which was a surprise to no one out the team itself. Ed. Not~: My' personal thanks to Lynn Bateman, who has done a tremendous JOb covering women's sports f'?r the past year. O'Donnell, Henry Shore A thelete of the· Week I his week's athlete of the week column must be shared oy two players who have certainly earned their titles, Sheila 0' Donnell and Jill Henry, both of the women's varsity basketball team. Sheila O'Donnell, a freshman who hails from Uui:lderland. N.Y., was co-captain of her high school team which finished second in the section AA championships her senior year. and also was one of the three high scorers. At 5'7'' she played center in high school. averaging 10 points a game, and now at Unioii she has continued her excellent style of play by being versatile enough to play every position on the team, including point guard, a totally new position to Sheila. A very aggre~>sive and strong f)layer, Sheila has totalled 231 points and 122 rebounds this season,. rtoi to mention . her 27 assists and 18 steals, and her game high of 32 points against Siena. Sheila has definitely been a positive factor in the Dutchwomen's success this year. Our other athlete of the week, Jill Henry. is also a freshman who comes to us from Lewisburg, Pa. Jill was also a very tough player on her high school team whose , record was 12-1, and which won the '76-'77 championship of the Susquehanna Valley Girls' Basketball League in Jill's senior year. Jill earned the distinction of being the number one point scorer of her league. Since Jill has come to Union she has contributed immensely to · the team both offensively and defensively, as she averaged 12 poirtts and J 7 rebounds per game in her first . eight games of the season, Which came to a halt when stte injured her ankle. However, ·when she returned Athlete Jill Henry against Green Mountain tour games later, she returned full strength as she garn~red I J points and 16 rebounds. ln her II games of the season, Jill has accumulated 173 points and !~5 rebounds, be$ides her game high of 29 points against Ulster CCC. Like her teammate Sheila, Jill has done much for the women's basketball team through her skill and spirit, and )()oks forward to an even better seasDn next year. Vol. 107 Marie Patlco1 c by THO~ On Apri will host th Colleges (ECSC). U and facult colleges, n will attend ECSC was by Paul undergradt College ir: The prin conferepce stimulat undergtad1 sciences a providing presentatic papers. attended whose the Philosoph: The secc April 23 ; Co.llege. 1 ECSC VI meeting, 11 self-sustai• Pennsylva was made for aU of1 ECSC. Shepherd served as secretary · time. Since 1 been held campuses States, grown covers tl chemistry enginee1 physics, psycholo!J At the tile Ruth Fairleigh more th presented student! Participat The the gUi; scientific Nonnall)!

