·; .Founded at Union .College 1877 ~~--~----------------------------------~---------------------------------------------- Schenectady, N.Y. Octo:ber 5, 1978 No.3 Vol. 1:08f · Jay Stre~t, as it ap~ared 111 +'11! 1920s. The street has rem a I ned· esse• · . .1·: y unchanged· and is the s.ite of today's '·'College Day\ ac- tivities. Stores are offer.ing special discounts and wi II be ·open until ~: 30 p.m. En- tertainment -will be provided this evening by CoiiP.ge ·music groups, incl.uding the Uni.on Jazz Ensemble. College Review Begun_ by SUSAN BARNHART . Steps are now being taken to pre.pare Union for· its ac- creditation review. This review, originally scheduled to take · place earlie~ this yeai·, was postponed until 1979 because of the problems Union faced during the past academic year. The review, which occurs every 10 years, is sponsored _by . the Middle Stat.es Revi.ew Commission. Provost C. William Huntley described the commission· as ·•a voluntary association of colleges and uiliversities in this area that join tog.ether in order to determine -which schools (in th·eir ~rea) at·e fit for ac- creditation. •·• . He also noted that the Middle States is only one of seven commissions of .its type throughout the United States. The Middle States Association extends from New York State to the District of Colun1bia and includes Puerto Rico and the Virgin Islands. It is also co:r:n-· ·posed of another sector that deals with the accreditation of high schools and prep schools. In ~rder to prepare for the r~eview, the College will initiate a self-study. Steps for this self- study have ah'eady beg.un to take place, with the· institution of s.even drafting corninittees that will study 'the problems facing the colle~e. . . _ Each corrnmttee wtll be responsible for dealing with a problem . facing the College. Eve.ntually, each committee will be responsible for drafting a paper defining its problem area of study. - This .self-study is initiated for the college to look at the . problems it now faces and give it a chance to deal with them before it is reviewed for ac- creditation. Problems to be considered. range from campus main- tenance to the energy situation. In physical makeup. each of the seven committees Will consist of faculty members, an administrator and several students. Provost Huntley noted . that these committees will jointly prepare an_ ap- proximately 300 page docwuent divide,d into seven chapters--one dealing with each of the seven target areas of the committees. After this document ts prepared, it will be available for examination by the College community. · The actual Middle .States review is scheduled for the winter or spring of 1980. At this time, a team of reviewers will come to the Gollege for ap- pro:ltimately three 'days. This team will consist of persons from all areas of college life--professors as well as administration officials. It will be their job to write a document in reaction to the visit and review of the report. This document will include the recommendation -for- con- tinuance or discontinuance of Union's accreditation. In ad· dition, it will include conm1ents on what problems Union should deal with to keep its present standing. This teport will then turned over to the Commission on Higher Education of Middle States. which usually agrees wtth the decision of the l'f'viewing team . and then acts accordingly to continue or discontinue the accreditation of the college. Correcting or changes that will occur as a result of this review. Pt·ovost Huntley said, that they will primarilr be evident after the review. although some may occm• in order to prepare for it. It is not expected,--.however, that any major changes will occur until after the spring of 1980. Committee Spots Open In response to increased student iiltei·est in the com, mittec system, a recent measure has been proposed to increase the size of certain Student .Forum coinmittees. They arc the college center, ·eoncett, elections, film, social, speakers forum and, a special ad-hoc tax comnlittee and the independent student coalition. In addition, the .following AU: College_. Senate committees have openings: library, housing; standing of students, conduct, ombudsman, traffic and pet control, graduate studies, development, con- tinuing education and sup- portive services. · 1'wo separate . service com- mittees--one to dissimulate off- campus housing information and another to compile a Collegt• telephone directory-. ate also being formed. Any students interested in serving on these conm1ittees shoulo sign the ad-hoc com- mittee Ust in the Student Activities Office. Those who have already signed this list can specify What conunittee they are . interested in serving on. The deadline for signing the ad·hoc list is 5 p.m. Friday, Oct. 6. Schenectady celebrates: ' College Day by JIM DAVIS T(1day is \College Day,\ Sehenett.adv mavor Frank J. -Duci has proclainwd. To celebratl' the event. Jay Street . will be closed to vehicular traffic. stores there ·will offer special discoW1ts and t:~ number of special programs are planned. \It's a good idea,\ said Joe Zolner, director of student deyelopment here. ··This will promote the start of a positive relationship l;>etween L'nion and tne surrounding ~·ommunity.\ A.ctiYities. got underway this rnorning at -11 a.m. with a farmers' market offering a harvest of fresh fruits for sale. The event will be sponsored by the Schenectady Community Action Program. At noon, the Schenectady Fire Department will stage a simulation with engines and hoses of a fire extinguishment at the Wallace building at the 1 comer of J,ay and State Street~, The dem.onstration will be repeated at i p.m .. Stores on JM' Street will be open until9:30.p.JJ1.. and many will -have special promotions for students. · 'Manv of the n1erchants h&\ l beell really enthusiastic about the rvent,'' said Ken Tichacek of the Scheneetadv Bureau of Planning. coordinator of College Day activities. Another planning bureau member, Bill Kelly, a 1978 Union graduatr. explained that \the events during the day are designed for individuals. Group events are scheduler! for the evening.\ These will start at 4:30 p.nl. with a walking tour of down- town Schenectady and the Stockade area starting from the steps of city hall. The tour will be repeated at 6:30 p.m. Auto tours will also be given. ·'For students tc- be able to take advantage of what . the downtown area offers, they have to know wherE: things ·are,\ Tichacek said. \After they take a tour they wilL\ Frisbee competitions will begin at 6 p.m; Frisbees will be supplied by the army and ' events will include accuracy thrQWS. - Outdoor entertainment will , begin at 7:30 p.m: when the Continued on page 2 Doesn ~t deliver advertised· speech: Wilson Here by DOUG ROSESFELD The publicity posters cir- culated by the Speakers' Forum advertised. \Fonner British Prime Minister Harold Wilson to speak on hwnan rights and the situation in South Africa\ . At this invitation. a less-than· capacity crowd gathered in Memorial C'hapellast '\'hursday evening. Sept. 28. to welcome the· distinguished speaker's remarks. · Meanwhile. as the pre-speech press conference engaged Mr. Wilson at Hale House, a crowd less ingratiated by Wilson's ,·isit, gathered outside of that building. Wielding anti-British, anti- Wilson placards, the group of protestors called attention to the ongoing conflict between the British and Irish in Northern Ireland. . -Apparently, they also had. seen an invitation in the Speakers' Forum poster. They saw it as an-opportunity to, as their printed · circular stated, ·'ask Harold Wilson to explain why he is so concerned about human rights in Africa, but not on his doorstep, the Six Counties of Northeast Ireland.\ Seating themselves at the rear of the chapel, the protestors. at all times orderly --and communicating through spokesman Peter Dooley. set the stage for a potentiall~· ex- plosive tete-a-tete \\ ith Wilson. But ar:gument \\as not 1 o coine. By avoiding completely the subject of South Africa in his speech. Wilson circumvented the possibility of H confrontatio11 wjth the group. Determined not to enter int\ empassioned deb::~te. th£' British ex-official earefully tailored ht& speech to bt.' polit1cr.:ly nm.· antagonistic. The fonner Prime ~linistr· did not speak on the subject , South Africa. He did nl't spc<1 i.. broadly on the issue of hUt w. rights. Former British Prime Minister Harold Wilson.

Page 2 OONOORI)IENSIS, October 5, 1918 .J, ~.peech Picketed Mf by JIM DAVIS copy of a letter sent by two · . members of the Judiciary . . Before Harold. Wilson's Conunittee, Hamittou Fish, Jr., speech at Memorial Chapel last ( R., N.Y.), its ranking member, ( Thu. r.· .sday 1.1ig·h.t.. a b. ou~ tw···o ~nd J.o~huaEilberg (D., P. enn.)., · dozen protestors stood m the. Its chairman. j · · chill night ah· protesting The two recently visited r-~ · · · · . English policies in Northern Northern lreland and Wl'ote .,\.. ~:. N I Ireland. th. e. y. \w. ere appalled. by .. con· .. - --.J ·-· · · ·'That a former British prime ditions and by the 'armed camp' · minister can come here and atmosphere.\ They also wrote , ... \' · · speak about hmnan right~ js that the U.S. should assume the -' .:- hypocritical,\ said Peter lead in normalizing the DoQ).ey, a local resident who situation. was among the protestors and Dooley added that 1 'we're not served as their spokesman. protesting W~rold Wilson's \The government he headed appearance here. What we're has cormnitted the most serious obj.ecting to are the oppressive human rights violations in the .policies carried out by the world.\ British government, who'Se The .group, which calls itself ruHng party Wilson is a the ··Irish National Caucus, was member of.\ dem'(mstr;Iting against tne Discussing how the protest oppres~ion of Catholics in was organized, Dooley said 1 'it Northern Ireland, where the was a spur-.of-the-moment British government has im- thing. We only found out Wilson posed a.statc of tnartiallaw. wasgoingtospealthereadayor C · ·· two·earlier.·''' arrylng signs with such inscriptions as \N. Ireland However, his group c(mtacted A group of protestors from\ a gtoup calling itself the \Irish National Caucus\ marched outside ·of Hale House and Memorial Chapel Sept. 28 before Harold Wilson delivered a lecture. Group spokesman Peter Dooley said that it was \hypocritical\ that Wilson could speak about human rights, the scheduled topic of his speech, when the British govern- ment has imposed a sta.te of martial law in ·Northern ! reland. iT\he protestors attended the prisoners have no human the College administration in , rights,\ they noted that advance to protest on , the dissenters there are often jailed campus. without trials and are then \We knew they. would be lecture and were orderly. Wilson's comments did not focus on human rights. Photo by Steve Geller Wilson Lecture Receives Mixed Student Reaction by JULIE ARNOLD Student reactions to Sir Harold Wilson's lecture last Thursday evening varied greatly. One very common response., however, was that he was difficult to understand. Marcia Hepford, a sophomore, remarked, \I'd tell you what I thought of his speech if I could have understood anything he said.\ Perhaps this audio difficulty was due to Wilson's British accent, but many students claimed tllat he mwnbled often. Another major complaint · was that he neglected to speak abouf current issues and problems. Freshman Tammy Woods said: \it wasn't what I ex- pected. I thought he would give his opinions of current affairs.\ But, she added that \he said things that wouldn't be found in history books, ·so it was wor- thwhile going.\ Likewise, a senior, Bill Wade, described the speech as a \hwnorous anecdotal lecture that contained few important or meaningful statements let alone revelations.'' There were similar student responses, such as that of sophomore Sally Yeates, who added that \his personal en- counters were interesting, but I was disappointed that he didn't speak on human rights or the situation in South Africa and wonder whether he was · pur- posefully evading the con- troversial subject.\ Mary McGregor, a senior, also thought Wilson \should ·College Day m!ffT Downtown Schenectady Union College •• •• ,, have discussed more present and contemporary problems. His speech was more a historical lecture which dealt with people of. a different gel!}eration. This was not the best way to go about improving Anglo-American relations.\ A more positive reaction was expressed by Megan Cum- mings-Saxon, a freshman, who said: \I thought he was in- telligent, had a good numor, and I enjoyed his reminiscing. In general, I liked his style.\ A student on the Speakers Forum, Pam Curran, agreed that Wilson \wasn't really g~tting his point across to the crowd, but on a one-to-one basis, he was very interesting~ and exciting to listen to.\ Continued from page Union Jazz Ensemble will play. About an hour later, two Union students, Rob Imrie ·and Gary Glauber, will perform folk songs . The pair played to a warm rec~ption at Orientation Cabaret. Gary, who plays acoustic gUitar, wrote some of the material they performed, and has serit demonstration tapes to commercial recording studios. . WRUC, Union's own FM radio station, will be spinning tunes from 5 to 7 p.m. on Jay Street in an old-fashioned record hop. They'll be playing everything frorn Beatles to Santana, So come on down and boogie. Rain date for these festivities is this Friday; Oct. 6. The idea .; for such an event was first 2l envisioned by members of the e Schenectady Planning Bureau ::; last spring. \This is a day when students will be especially welcome on Jay Street,\ Ticpacek said. Explaining why College Day was initially proposed, he ad- ded, \Students are a group ·of citizens in the community. And serving them is our job.\ subject to dismal conditions in here,\ said Jack L. Maranville, jail. director of public relations and All of the protestors live in the assistant to the ,president '\We local area.· A number of thern agreed to let them t'QUle if spoke with noticeable Irish they'd be. orderly.\ brogues. In addition, , a few ·Of The demonstration did .go of:f them said they had first-hand without incident. Picketers knowledge of oppression in began assembling at about 7 :30 Northern Ireland because they p.m. Then, they walked around have relatives living there. Memorial Chapel and Hale \We're trying to have House, where· a press con- hearings conducted in Congress ference for Wilson took place at on the situation in Northern about 8:15p.m. until his speech Ireland by the judiciary sub- began at about a: 45. p.m. coihmittee on conditions in \There wasn't much choice, Northern Ireland,\ said one really,\ Maranville said. \If we such demonstrator, Patricia hadn't let them on the grounds, Brice. they just would have protested Spokesman Dooley also had a right outside the main gate.\ To ease on-campus· trafUc flow Roadway Is Built Construction has started on m new roadway designed to reduce traffic in the central campus. Linking the main entry court at the end of the Library Lane with the Alexander Lane gate on Union Avenue, the new roadway is being built .in ac- · cm·dance with the basic prin· ciples of the \Plan for the Eighties,\ a comprehensive site plan reviewed in 1976. Estimated cost o( the project, funded through the Bailey' Fund, which also foots the expense for the construction of the entry court,. is $55,000. Two bids have been received. The scheduled completion date is Dec. 1, Jack Litynski, director of physical plant operations, said. The roadway essentially completes the overall entry coutt project, which also ill- eluded the construction of new admissions o~fice parking spaces an<.tthe garden court at the rear of Hale House. At one end, the roadway will connect with Libr~ry Lane, directly across from the ad-: ministration building parking lot. It will pass between Smith · House and the Alpha Delta Phi fraternity house, behind Wells House, Chi Psi Lodge and Lamont House. and connect at its other terminus with the parking lot behind Alumni Gym. In addition, the walkway between Smith House and the Alpha O'elta Phi fraternity house and the roadway just north of the fraternity--a· perennial problem for emergency vehicles and ap illegal parking lot--will be eliminated. Until the · project is com- pleted, persons are asked nofto park their cars ne~r the con- struction area. Provost C. William Huntley ~aid the project ls a much- needed step toward impr.oving S!)fety be reducing automobile traffic. on ~outh Lane, which could be ...-limited strictly to service and emergency vehicles In the future. Construction progresses ort a new roadway that will connect · Library Lane with the parking lot behind Alumni Gym. lhe · project, whi.ch will cost $55,000., completes the entry court project that is part of the \Plan for the Eighties,\ reviewed in 1976. The scheduled completion date for the roadway Is Dec. 1. Au by IJ With I mined judi_ciou: perience warmth Norman !lis tenUi of Unior Dr. R .of the a Dr. Aut remark~ Indeec of ten UnWilliiJ duck traditior serving he is < major rc of Unior Seein~ and Uni utilize t periencE Trustee~ perman1 theadm educ~ti( In an cordiep diSCUSSE portant His Roll Becau interest preside~ me:1nent as a tell adviser His b Joinin staff at Ayn De from u in Pem health, · recreati in ath receive Central College. membe Athletic (NATA position with th progres: Since 1 idea of are Ms. explain trainers both Jill tercolle! trav.el.v concern1 b: Anoth ministr: is Da' Directo1 comes · sberg,l' about r receivE Politic a from Sl workin~ Wood v visor of time, b Campu allowed courses Educat summe Coordh: Fulton, progra1 years, l directc College an beh€

CONOORDIENSIS, October 5, 1918 Auburn: No Latne Duck by OAVID SCHM'ERTZ With the spirit of a deter- mined mid-westemer, the judicious wisdom of an ex,.. .perfenced therapist, and the warmth of a soothing blam, Dr. Norman P~ Auburn has begun !lis tenure as interim president of Union College. · Dr. Richard Day, Chairman of the Board of. Trustees called Dr. Auburn \a gentleman of remai'kabl'e character.\ educational experience both as full-time president of the University of Akron, Ohio and, since 1911, as acting president for three institutions-- Polytechnic Institute of New York, Stephens College in Columbia, Mo., ~nd, most recently, Cedar Crest College in Allentown, Perm .. , provides him with an sufficient background to accept this role. Having participated i.n the search and selection of three other college presidents, Dr. AUburn feels that ne can best cOt!t:ribute .to Union by providing guidance during its search for a :PErrmanent President. provides tradtti«;maHy . un- dergraduate institutions with a means of ·reaching this larger pool of potential al-plicants. Whether Union should elect tbis option, .said Dr. Aubu~n, depends upon. two essentral factors,. financial and educational feasiblity. Dr. ·Auburn said \A college with Union's ·tradition should not take away f.rom its un~ dergraduate pro;g·rams--its lli strong point--to suppo.rt ·~ graduate studies.If th_e College iJJ can find. the funds necessary to > Cl.l support graduate programs v; without taking away from >- .undergraduate programs, then ..o f 0 . ine .. '' - Page 3 · Indeed, Dr. Auburn is a man of remarkable character. UnWilling to accept the . ilame duck role of caretaker traditionally cast upon those serving on a temporary basis, he is determined to play a major role in shaping the future of Union College. Dt. AUburn stressed that the College must. appoint . a presjdent.~'deeply committed to. ·education and to tbe traditions of l)riion College itself'\ .jt cis expected, said, Dr. Auburn, that Dr. Auburn also stressed the j importance of educational a. stabi-lity, citing that graduate Dr. Norman P. Auburn, Union's Ac.tin~ President for 197S-79. Seeioghisrole as a consultant and unifier, Dr. Auburn will utilize his many years of ex-: pericmce to aid the Board of Trustees in their search-.:~r . a permanent president and :help the administration fonnulate its educptional objectives. In an interview with Con• cordiepsis, . Dr. A\burn discussed a number of i.ffi ... portant \College issues: His Role At. Union · Because Dr. Auburn has no interest in remaining as president of Union on a per- manent basis, be sees himself as a temporary consultant and adviser to the College. His many years of New Trainer by SUSAN MARR Joining the athletic training staff at Union this year is Beth Ayn Deutch. She graduated from Lockhaven State College . a, new president will be chosen bY the end of this academic year. Continuing Education . In the face of a .sharply deClining applicant pool, both small and large colleges said Dr. Auburn, must find ways to deal with the financial and academic burdens inherent in the decline. An Qption open to colleges, he continued, is the institlltion of graduation programs. In 1980 the largest applicant pool will fall in the 21-to-25 age category. Graduate education . programs should maintain competitive standards, and be capable of attracting a com- petent. and distinguished f~~iculty. . Whether continuing education is .feasible he.re, said _Dr. Auburn, \is something that must be studied l;ly the Trustees and tile College community at large.'' · p.resent Admissions Practices ·- Because the number of qualified applicants will decline sodramatically~·Union, said Or. Auburn, must review its present admissions practices to determine whether the .present CoJltinued on page 5 in Pennsylvania majoring in health, physical education and :2 recreation with a specialization g in athletic training. She ~ received her masters fr'orn Pl Central Connecticut State g College. She is a certified .t5 member of the National >- Athletic Trainers Association .m 0 (NATA). This is her first 0 position and she is very pleased f with the way the year has progressed thus far. Since everyone has a different idea of what a trainer's duties are Ms. Deutch was asked to explain them. She said that the trainers are responsible for both men's and women' s· in- tercollegiate teams. They must travel. with the team and are concerned with all facets of The newest addition to Union's athletic training staff is Beth Ayn DelJtch. injury; from prevention, to treatment and care of injury, to rehabilitation. She believes that a relaxed atmosphere between trainer and athlete is very important. She hopes to build a good rapport with the students, so that they will trust h-er and won't hesitate to return. She loves her work, and en- joys meeting and . interacting with people. She wishes everyone; not just those in- volved with athletics could see what a trainer does and the hours they put in. Wood Joins Union· Staff·· by SCOT'f WITKIN Another addition to the ad- ministrative changes for 1978-79 is David Wood, our new Director of Housing. Mr . .Wood comes to Union from Ogden- sberg, NJ, knowing a great dea.l about residence hall life. He received both his B.A. in Political Science and his M.E. from SUC at Potsdam. While working on his masters, Mr. Wood was head residence ad- visor of his dorm. At the same time, he worked on a Starlight Campus Committee, which allowed students to take outdoor courses as part of their Physical Education requirement. Two summers ago, h~ was Reading Coordinator for Camp Suzy in Fulton, N.Y. under the Title One program. During the past two years, Mr. Wood was residence director at Cobleskill State College, where he sat on the RA In.memory of Leonurd Zel~sko \ Chair.man Committee. It is from · this path of experience that Dave Wood joins llS at Union as our new H9using Director: Wheil asked what he especially likes about Union, Wood replied, 1 'I have flexibility as an administrator to create educational and social pr~\·= .H1ms for residence halls.\ He dd not have this freedom at the State .. University. He likes not being locked into state contracts, as now he call get the best deals for the supplies needed. In addition, Mr. Wood enjoys the students at Union. \Their Cine school spirit and helpful attitudes make working together both beneficial and fun.\ · . dorm. This arrangement enables him to view the students as closely as a.n ad- ministrator possibly can. · In summary, Mr. Wood comes to Union with a great deal of experien~e and knowledge. He is looking for- ward to a most enjoyable year, full of improvements. Mr. Wood and his wife Jane t.. . ~ live in Fox House. He is very VI happy with this situation for he , can better see the need for ~ repairs by actually living in a '5 « >- CONCORDIENSIS will not be .J:l published next week. The next ~ issue wlll appear Tliorsday, if October 19. Wilson: •'Into' America by MARK DINDORF Sir Harold Wilson, former Prime Minister of Great Britain, spoke in Memorial Chapel last Thursday night on the relationshi-p between England and the United States. Concordiensis met the dignitary at the airport to get this ex- clusive interview. Here are his comments on several current issues: The Camp David Summit: \ It is a historic achievement and I think credit is due to the three leaders for their ac- complishment. I did, knowing the Mideast pretty well, have some worries. \ The Resignation of South Africa's Prime Minister Vor- ster: • •J only heard he was going to resign When I read the American newspapers, ob- viously he's ill. Although I don't think much of him, he did oc- cassionally help to , get the Rhodesians to be a little bit more sensible. But, I don't know what Volte (former defense minister) will do, I don't think he '11 be much better.\ Changes in the apartheid: ''I fear there isn't a chance of any. Donald Wood, South African journalist, being put into isolation by his govern- ment. I wasn't then prime minister, though I kept a very close in- terest. I can't say that I would have been very successful in getting anything out of the South Africans though because they were racists, and all my life I've been passionately against racialism.'' The racial problem in London between the Englishmen and the former English colonies \ There are problems, we have a very nasty right wing movement, almost facist, which my .party, of course, fights hard against. I know a long ex- perience of the problems of the immigrant, but don't forget some of the immigrants came here twenty. twenty-five years ago. Very many of these yoUilg colored people are British citizens, born in Britain. Now I'm Chancellor of the Univer- sity of Bradford, also and we have fity ethnic groups, probably seven or eight dif- ferent kinds of f•akistanis. BDtb the professors and the students have been doing a good job of reconciling the ethnic groups there. \ The future of the British economy \Well we've been through a very rough time, I had to do some tough things as prime minister, particularily the pay policy, but I knew the miners and once they agreed, we were all right for a year or two. We are doing better, unem- ployment is heavy, as it is in every advanced industrial state. Inflation has fallen from a figure just below 30 per cent three years ago to six or seven per cent now and Wf' hope to keep it steady or even improve on it, but, of course, we have problems. Our balance of payment is now in surplus thanks to the North Sea oil, and gas deposits which I'm very happy were discovered while I was Prime Minister. \ Human Rights problems in other areas of the world \In South Africa, the human rights problem is one of race. There are, of course, hmnan rights problen1s in the Soviet Union. I probably know the Soviet Union better than anJ western statesman, because I've been there 19 times, I think they are now a very worried country.'' The plll'pose of your two-week trip to the United States \Last year I did a very short lecture tour meeting young people and I liked it. I really enjoy lecturing and I feel that there's a duty to communicate when you've had the privilege that I've had of leading a great nation for longer than anyone else tbis century. Now that sounds very pompous, the real truth is, I like doing it. I am also very into a lot of things in relation to America, I'm very interested in your financial problems and I'm also planning to set up an American Theatre at Stratford on Avon, provided I can get a few Americans to help pay for ~t. \ The typical attitude of the young peop1e you have met in a memorialservice will be held today at 12:30 inthe Memoriai Chapel Dave Wood, Union's new director of housing. Brltaill · Continued on page 9

OONOORDIENSIS, October 5, 19'18 Pro.f. Susan Britain Wilson Speech. • • Continued from page 1 Instead, Wilson presented a Claiming the conflict tQere to be collage of anecdotes, his per- one that is \deeply rooted in sonal reminiscences as a history\ he foresaw \no easy Bri . .ish statesman. solution,\ and wal? careful to T:1ese he loosely organized note that a solution \can't be arolmd a central theme that he one-sided.\ identified as the \relationship He went on to justify the of England and the United British presence in Ireland States.\ In a good-humored saying, \We got a cease-fire tone, Wilson embarked upon an from the IRA.\ extensivenamedropping spree. As for his personal in- Issues (WW2,-World War II, volvement, Wilson claimed that Vietnam, the Mideast--and he fought the mistreatment of personalities-FOR, Trrunan, political prisoners and., for Adlai Stephenson, Churchill, doing so, \was nearly crucified LBJ, Ford, Kennedy, Nixon, by the British press.\ .--- Kissinger-each with a story, When asked about. a British came across the chapel in withdrawal from Ireland, swarms. Wilson quickly conceded, \It What seemed a digression would be terribly easy, \ and, from the material contained in d~spite all of this national and the body of his speech was personal criticism, adds, just as actually a return to the topic on quickly, \we will not leave that which Wilson had been ad- chaos behind.\ vertised to speak--that of human rights. BUILD YOUR OWN Union Prof. Britain to study Father-Daughter Link For some women, success in college and in .a career maY be singlularly dependent on the type of encouragement they get from their fathers-regardless of how , much or how little support the mother provides. So surmises Susan Britain, assistant professor of psychology, and this fall she will begin to test the hypothesis by studying groups of women \high-achievers\ at Union and Skidmore colleges and their relatiorishlps with their fathers, Comparatively little research has been dolle to ex:amine the father-daughter relationship and its effect ()n the daughter's success in life. Instead, there has been \a distinctive bias ~in psychological research, which has focused mostly on the mother.,daughter relationship,'' Britain says. The links between father and daughter have been scrutinized only in rt:cent studies, she says. Mothers, of course, remain significant irifluences on their daughters, and the mother's place as a ~•role model\ who sets an example for ·her daughter--lls housewife, worker, or civic leader-is well understood. Studies have .. generally found \that when the mother is out of the house for a period of time- for work or for volwtteer ac- tivities-that fact in and of itself ·increases the chance of thE\ daughter baving a successful · career,\ Prof. Britain says. \But the emphasis in studies on the mother-daughter relationship has perhaps tended to reinforce the notion that the mother is primarily respOnsible for the child's emotional ad- justment and achievement,\ Prof, Britain· says, and thus may mask the underlying importance of the father's at- titude towards his daughter. Although she is unable to predict the results of her study, her observations of women she counsels and of her students at Union lead her. to believe it likely \that the fathers are the biggest sex-role _stereotypes of their children, both male and female.\ . · If the father decides that a daughter's desire to pursue a traditionally-male career, such as engineering, In W1ladylike, or, earlier in life, that it's not appropriate for her to play with trucks, building blocks, and ''male\ toys, that's likely to determine the child's con- ception of her own femininity and what it entail~. ~'While tbe mother is -generally more accepting .of a variety of behaviors; the father tends to judge you on the way you turn out,\ Prof. Britain says. \To win acceptance, the daughter will likely show signs of independence and take risks · if the father encourages it. But if he encourages passivUy, his daughter is likely to conform to his expectations in order to win approval--regardless of how open-minded the mother may be.\ She says that very successful women at times feel they· are sacrificing their femininity in order to pursue careers or in- dependent lives . since femininity traditionally has been defined in terms of dependence, fragility .and weakness. \They may even feel it necessary to 'kill' the female within them,\ Prof. Britain says. Prof. Britain says the first phase of her study of Union and Skidmore students Will be comp1eted by the Spring of 1979. The work is supported by a Union College Faculty Research Grant, one of several made this year to faculty for special projects. Addressing himself to the issue of the 1975 Helsinki ac- cords, Wilson claimed they had been largely successful \until the concern over the treatment of dissidents'' established itself, this past summer. BIG SCBBBN COLOB 2'V Singling out the St:>viet Union as the principal violator of the agreement, he said, \most of the problem in default of Helsinki are due to Russian monitoring groups.\ Although cognizant that the Russian problem poses a \serious situation\ Mr. Wilson advised against the overreaction of governments. Cancellation via national boycott of the Olympic Games, scheduled to take place , in Moscow; is in his words \silly and sulky\. ·· Moreover, as he commented at his press conference when ' asked about President Carter and the issue of hrunan rights, \to press human rights by sanctions of any kind would be unwise.\ Apparently, Wilson finds governmental underreaction to the Russian violations of Helsinki.as bad as overreaction. While he expects that in light of incidents involving the per- secution of Russian dissidents the U.S. \may have to announce the Helsinki agreement in breach,\ he added that we should \tackle Russian power directly\ and \force the Russians to justify breaking the agreement.'' Although he avoided, throughout his. evening speech, the coniroversial issue of human rights violations under British martial rule of Northern Ireland, Wilson could not escape the lecture without a mention of it. When the audience was in- vited to put questions to the speaker, the spokesman for the Irish , National Caucus protestors, Peter Dooley, iq,- troduced the topic. i But the question was weak. It could not upstage Wilson, because the British diplomat had created a stage other than the one Mr. Dooley and his fellows had expected .. The mind of the crowd was not afire with notions of human nghts. It was lullabied with stories of states and statesmen. Mr. Wilson had seen to it that Dooley had no sympathetic audience. Wilson spoke on the sit.uation in Ireland dispassionately. Sport in~ Euents Arc An Experience As Exciting As Being There! Movies Arr Sceil The Way They Were Meant To Be Seen! Pon{! And Other Video Games Are More Exiting Than Euer! Can Be L'sed With Video Tape Playback Equipment.' \ Si~ulatcq TV Reception It's Like Having a \Movie Theater, in Your Home·! AMAZING $90.00 PROJECTOR KIT now only $29.95 Imagine inviting friends to see TV Specials, Movies, Sports, on your Theater Size TV! It's like viewing on a movie screen! Everything takes on a whole new dimension , . , almost makes you feei like you're in the action! Can also be used outdoors, converting your back yard into an o.pen·air Outdoor Theater! This new invention, gives $harp bril:liant TV reception comparable to commercial projector systems C!JSting $2,500 or more. Absolutely SAFE to use. No electrical or mechanical connections to TV. Remov.es in seconds for regular size viewing. No special aerial required. Projects up to 5 x 6 fO'ot pictures ( 7% Ft. diagonal) on wall or screen, even in the smallest ro~ms. or :, apartments. Best of all, this amazing Projecfor is really simple and inexpensive· to build yoursel'f. Even- a 12-year old can do it quickly. Enclosed Kit comes complete with unbreakable lifetime guaranteed Precision Lens System, 11\ x 17\ illustrated Plans and Specifications and EASY ASSEMBLY instructions. AU you supply is only sorpe cardboard or wood for the simple cabinet. This Projector can be used with ANY Portable TV set 7\ to·25\ and will enlarge pictures in either Color or Black,& White. If you wish, here's an easy way to make money in you't sparetime. .Simply assemble arid sell these TV Projectors to your friends, neighbors, relatives; etc. Everyone with a Television. Set will gl&dly-pay you up to $90.00 for each Projector you build. Make up to $70.00 on each easy sale. Your cost, one kit- $29.95, two kits· $49,95, five k'its · $99.95. I ,. . . . SALES MARKETING Dept. NP·7 P.O. Box 2646 Merced, California 95340 Enclosed is $ ___ ---' __ for~·-~-~-- Postpaid complete TV PROJECTOR KITS Natne Addr~ss -------~--------~~~~--~~~-------------~--------------~ City /State __ .,..._. __ ......_ _____ ~-------------------Zip-------- Offer expires October 22, 1978 Care Deb Gov. Ass em Per.ry .I Republ Govern meet _, what schedu betwee1 tenders The the Lea NewY< live' by Service from n: Propc are the virontn justice, and we Abs~ ball This dayepn filing especia earlier. Stude add res Countji Schene1 and a deadliri 9. StudE addres: County Board< county and re1 anabsE for thi: · Upor retut:ni Will-be ballot. the loc c :>6 \IV ()pt'l Rt•st'l J BarH; 12\ Cl 16\ Cl 12\ o. 16'' o. • 12\ We 16'' We ADDIT Sauoog• Peppero • Hom

\' CONOORDIENSlS. October 5, 1918 Page 5 Carey vs. Duryea I' Camp~ign '78 Debate Gov. Hugh . Carey and As~embly Minority Leader Perry Duryea, Democratic and Republican candidates for Governor of · New York,· will meet -wectnesd~y. Oct. 18 on what is to date the only scheduled television debate between the two major con• tenders. The program, ~ponsored by the League Qf Women Voters of New York State, will b_e carried - live\ by all Public Broadcasting Service channels in the State from nine to eleven p.m. Proposed subjects for debate are the State's economy, en- vironmental concerns, criminal justice, \and health, education and welfare. Absentee ballots .... ' • This year's general election day cpmes Nov. 2. Deadlines for filing voting applications~­ especially· absentee .ballot~ .... ,JS earlier. Below is avotmggu1.de. Students whose perrnan$nt address is in Schenectady County shoult;l go . to the Schenectady Board of Elections and ask to register. The deadline for registration is Oct. 9. Students· whose pennanent address is not in Schenectady County should write to the Board of Elections serving their county of permanent residence and request an application for an absentee ballot. The deadline for this application is Oet. 31. · Upon completing and retUJ:ning this•form, the student Will -be sent the actual absentee ballot. This must be returned to the local board by 9 p.m .• Nov. 7. If unregister.ed, students m\st request a registration application and return it to their local B9ard of Elections by Oct. !). Along with the registration application, students .should ask for an absentee baJlot aJr plication. This must ,be returned by Oct. 31. / Duryea In a press release issued last week, Assemblyman Perry Duryea--the Republican and Canservative Party candidate for governor--appealed tQ libera'l and apolitical college students for support in November. · Duryea is relying on his past financial assistance position to attract students primarily concerned with upcoming tuition biBs. In the release, he reealled that in 1974 he sponsored the increase in the Tuition Assistance Program (TAP). Duryea characterized this program as one of the \most progressive forms of student aid ever devised. \ Ever mindful of his conflict with Governor Carey, he reminded students th~t in 1976 -tbe governor attempted to cut TAP funding by $40 million. The assistance program that the governor has recently proposed is, according to Duryea, \the same one'' that he (Duryea) introduced in 1977. The Republican challenger concluded his appeal-for student support with the promise that, if elected .governor, he will \guarantee New York college students priority treatment. -LISA DeMARTINO Voter registration The League of Women Voters of New York State and the state Democratic and Republican parties have .again join~d for~es to promote voter . reg1st~a~10n and. enrollment In pohtlcal parties; . · Political party membership has been decreasing in recent years . as new Y?ters ~have chosen not to affllmte w1th a particular, partY,. In addition !o those who deliberately avmd party enrollment, m~ny people . who register by mall are ~ot aware that the mail registratton · form provides art opporttmity to itu:lic~te party preference. A reversal· of this trend was noted 'in 1977 when a larger percentage of new . voters (;nrolled in a political party than had done so in previous y~ars . The League and the party organizations · hope that the upward trend will continue. The League, a non,.partisan organization devoted to en- couraging citizen participation in government, considers party enrollment to be as ad- vantage!)~S to the voter as to the party. ' \By joining a party,\ State Leagu~ President Natacha Dykman pointed o'ut, · 'Cltizens increase their own effectiveness in government. They are able to vote in primary elections. Also, they are able to exert m?re influence in party pohcy because a political leader is · more likely to listen to a party member. than to . an outsider. And they can still vote for whomever they please regar- dles& of party on Election Day.\ Fine Food In A Casual Atmosphere • err!~~ · ~ A Nice Way To End The Day. ' :>6 Wolf Road Across !-'rom Colonie Center Coloniv MENU . I~\ Ch.,ese Piuo .................. $2.75 FREE 'DELIVERY WITHIN OUR DELIVERY AREA (30 minute service) \ CALL 382~3838 Also 10 minute take out Counter Service Auburn Continued from _page 3 structure is capable of at- tracting gualified applicants in numbers sufficient to maintain the college's. high academic standards. As an example of an ad- mission structure that might need review, Dr. Auburn cited the present point syste~, which awards each applicant a number of points toward ad- mission depending upon his academic qualification,s and general background. If an applicant accumulates en.ough points, he is generally admitted. Dr. Auburn suggested that applicants from are~s outside the state and country bE! awarded a,_ higher 'lUmber of points than those applicants from the local region. This practice, he said would greatly · help the College' diversify its student body ar)d make the College m •• re visible a outsid£ New York State. Again, however, Dr. Auburn stressed that anv decisiou t( change -the adrr;ission::; prac- tices would have to depe11d upon whether the change affel'ted the present high standards for admission. Any change . in admisSion!'> practices, Dr. Auburn said that might indirectly lead to a decline in Union's admissions standards, · would b(: ·'detrimental to the goals and traditions of Vniop College.\ HAMILTON'S FOOD MARKET OFFERS U.NlON STUDENTS CONVENIENT SHOPPING AT REASONABLE PRICES WE DELIVER 37 4-8448 Homemade sa lads, quality meats, fresh produce, groceries, beer and soda Located at 841 Union St. (corner of Union and Gillespi.e) Open Mon .. Frr. 8:30to6pm · Sat.8:30to5pm 1/AUL 6Nf£6\ 1907 Van Vranken Ave. Schenectady, N.Y. Fo.rei'gn & Do·mestic Car Service· ·offers Union Students 1 0% Discount on parts a.1d labor For appointment call Dave e1t 377-4722 CATALOG of COLLEGIATE RESEARCH Over 10.000 listings! All subjects. Send NOW for this FREE catalog. toffer exprres Dec. 31. 1.9781 Representative UNIVERSITY OF SOUTHERN CALIFORNIA · to be on campus TUESDAY, OCTOBER 17 Graduate study information· all fields of Letters, Arts & Sciences · Contact Career Resources and Placement .... - ...... ----~------- --- .... -- ----.. •IDaioa ID 16\ Chen11 Piuo ................... $4.00 12\ Delu~ot Combo .................. $4.55 16n Deluu Combo .. ,, ............. , S6,4Q OPEN DAILY 4 .p.m. • 1 a.m. f~--------~-------------------, 50c i: I I Wednesday • Friday October 11 & 13 • 12\ Wcrh:S- Piuo ................ ; .. SS.-45 16\ Wcrh P.i:uo ................ , .•• S7.6Q ADDITIONAL ITEMS·. ·For 12''-. 4St ) Sausage Pepperono • Ham For 16'' • • 60t Onions ·Greon Peppers. Mushroomo •G•ound Beef Thic~ Crust Fri.- & ·Sat. 4 p.m.· 2 a.m. . OFF ANY LARGE PIZZA 1 coupon per plna Good now thru 1- : I I I ,. ' I ·I I I I l . October 8, 1978 ! ~---~~-~--~--~---m~--~-------

OONOORDIENSIS·, October 5, 1978 Editorials Fresh Start This year it's gc:>ing to be very hard to say, ''They're not letting me gEt involved.\ In the last few years many on campus have lam- basted both tll.e Student Government and the hadership of the numerous student clubs for being \elitist\ an.d ''cliquey.\ If one scans th.e campus scene, he notices that the Student Forum is openly expanding the committee s:·rstem and Union Book is presently recruiting its ~r:aff. During the student elections of last spring, many of the candidates ·found the climate on campus very negative. ManJ' :people who spoke with those running for office sug~ested reforms such as an expanded committee system and an increase in communication through the pages of Ooncordie.nsis. Well, it may sound trite, .but now is your chance. Get involved! To the-student body of Union we say: Let's show our critics that we do care. Active student participation in the committees is essential. Get Involved As we begin a new and fresh year, so begins the revival of Ooncordiensis. ' Ooncordiensis has, and will continue to be the written voice ()f the College community. But, we, the editors, are dedicated to more than just expressing the thoughts and actions of the Union College Com- munity. ' We'll seek to follow an idealistic and innovative direction. Thr<>u.gh new organization, enthusiasm and optimism, we hope to give Concordiensis a fresh and positive appearance. We, the editors, will attempt to s}lare a few ideas, interests, and viewpoints with our readers. - We have begun by widening both the size and background o:four staff. We have brought many new and unique ideas to the paper, that we can pass along. We have made major revisions in our financial organization in an effort to reduce our dep~rtdence upon student ta.x money. · · The outward appearance of the paper is an im- portant ingredient in its overall chare.cter. We will try to create an a:t>pearance pleasing to the eye. Most importantly, though, we will try to make OoncordiensiS a.n exciting and valuable contributor to the College'. 'Dhr->ugh our fresh approach, we hope to attract those interested in being involved, and create a paper representative of the aspirations and in- terests inherent in the College it serves. ' Concordiensis will11ot appear next week, Oct. 12. A regtJiar edition will appear the following week.- C!tnnrnr Opinion: .Student Forum On the Move by STEVE RICHARDS It is time you becam.e acqua~nted with some of the projects your student govern- ment has undertaken these first daysofthis new academic year. If you are like 1pe, you want to see things happen. . The following are just a few of the recent developments: . It is the belief of many, in- cluding myself, that students receive less than adequate payoff for their Student Tax money-now $99.00 a year. We are fonning an ad hoc com- mittee to work with the Tax Committee. They will have the job of inspecting and cataloging all capital equipment now in the possession of student organizations recognized by the Student Forwn. This catalog will be con~ tinually updated so that the forum and the tax committee can keep a closer eye on this equipment and determine its depreciation more accurately. This will tell us where we stand at all tiriles so that we can plan better, and appropriate your money more effectively. This ad hoc committee will tell us just how much eqUipment we have. From this information we can detel'mine how much .space will be required to store this equipment. We are going to find a suitable room to store these materials when they are not 1n use. Only authori~ed individuals wilL be allowed ac<;essto the equipment for specific activity-relatecl use. This should cut down on theft and misuse. Also, the Student Forum should meet In a room con- . ducive to serious deliberation. It should be an attractive setting and easily accessible to members of the College com- munity. VWe should ri1eet at a reasonable hour. Consequently, we have moved our meeting plac~ to the Hale House dining room, beginning with our Oeober 9 meeting, at a time to be decided this week- either 7 or 8 p.m. An agenda will be posted in· the Student Activities office at least 48 hours · prior to the meeting time each week. Unless otherwise notified, all members of the College community. are invited to our meetings. The student government should h~ve its own conference room and office. Steps are now being taken to find such a facility, and we should have definite possibilities before us in . two to three weeks. This would provide for better organization-a central place for cOirunittee meetings, files, etc.-a more cohesive govern• ment. It would help alleviate the continuity problem we face each yea!'. ~ Each week, for one hour a day, five days a week, l am available especially for student input. The times change each week and can be found in each issue of C()ncordiensis. Until we get OUr OWn room, I will be in the Sttldent ~ctivities office during these hours. I encourage each of you to stop by . If the times are inconvenient, I can be reached at 224 Fox, in Phi Gamma Delta, or by calling 372-6332 or 372-0172. I will give you a third number next week. It's important that we com- lllunicate. Richards' Hours Steve Richards will be available in the Student Activities office for discussion with st11dents during the followihg hours in the week beginning Oct .. 9: - - · Monday and Tuesday: 9:30 a.m. to 1() :30 a.m. · Wednesday:.ll a\rn. to noon. Thursday and Friday: 10 a.m. to U a.m. · Editors-in-Chief Production Manager News Editors Layout Editors Feature Editors David Schmertz, David Rubin -A. ·u t u· ·m n· a· ·.I Debbe Damrell . · · · Jim Davis,Sue Barnhart · · · -Col·or:burst. Doug Rosenfeld, Danny WQjnilower. • Associate Editor Roslyn Stone, Donna Creeley, Lee Glickman :Matt Nagorsky Terri Moran Steve Monosson Lisa Voerman, Eileen Kanter Tom BUiocchi Cary Feuerman Gary Bowitch, Maryann Popeil Ken Marks, Valerie Juster, Michele Coven Melissa Cragin . · Classified Editor . Arts Editor ·Environs ·Sports Editor Photo Editor Copy Editors Subscription Editors Calendar Editor Fine Lines EditDr ·Staff JanDeDeka Robin Cornick, Alissa Schragin, Marty-Dolan, :Ra.Ghel Mandel, ])oug Rosenfeld, LynneGreenberg Pat Wright, Jon Axel, Gregg Arnold Eric Goldring, Carole Jan Finig, Dwight Pakan~ Steve Geller, RichardSher Larry Fallek, Andrea Fink, Dale Sponaugle, Darrel Seife,Susan Paela, Jenifer Aronoff, Sharon Moss · Photo Staff · Business . _. Union students don't have to travel far to see lots of fall color. It's at peak in the higher elevations of the Adirondack 'Mountains, according to reports received by the New York State Depa_!'tment of Conunerce. Long Lake rates its color at peak. Obser~ vers stationed in Indian Lake, Saranac Lake, Schroon Lake, Speculator-Lake Pleasant, Tupper Lake and Wilmington said that fall color in their area is at peak. Peak color in any one area normally lasts for only three or four days, though it can remain brilliant for a ·~ week. C!J. In othe regions of New York State, color is advancing slowly. Catskill Mountain areas ranged from ten to 50 pet cent While colov in the Finger Lakes was rated at about 15 percent change . ; ) ••.: E ::; k ! Fall foliage color is just beginning to blossom in Jackson's Garden. · . ,, 'It's c This ye: Weekend is 13--15,. anc director of: expecting a· return for 1 by The Pa held its fi tember 2a: represen: '\President - the meetir big evenl season, wh on Septem The subj on the age that frest extended 1 On Noverr 14th freshr first three' which will ColJege. Tt pledging u 14th. The age This te1 system is Union Col' final grade \H\.HC' ' ' March2, 1' Senate vo plus and n into effect TWi<!e p voted on' ''plus\ ar for 'final 1 Mr. Carl \S.tudent apparent came to however, Ar On Frid McPartla: Hallat8:~ informatit On Fri• Edmund. perfo11[1) t1 South· . Indians ; Coffeehou open at 8 On Satll Bookbindc andragtii Doors op1 more infc 1703. On Wee Paul Str. songwrit, gultarist Eighth St Coffeehou Albany; 1 8:45p.m. On T 12, Terre and Paul perform , tns and :H be lleatd RecitalH; Albany's On Frid and 10:00 ' the7thatl That M:ov Cocteau's being sho' at 75: NE Albany. 1 7371. On Tue~ .p·.m .• Pet.

.;.'\'age 6 OONOORDIENSIS. October 5, 1978 Editorials Fresh Start This year it's going to be very hard to say, ''They're not letting me get involved.'' In the last few years many on campus have lam- basted both the Student Government and the l·~adership of the numerous student clubs for being \elitist\ and ''cliquey.\ If one scans the campus scene, he notices that the Student Forum is openly expanding the committee s:·rstem and Union Book is presently recruiting its s·:aff. During the student elections of last spring, many of the candidates found the climate on campus very n~gative. Many people who spoke with those running for office suggested reforms such as an expanded committee system and an increase in communication through the pages of Concordiensis. Well, it may sound trite, but now is your chance. Get involved! To the student body of Union we say: Let's show our critics that we do care. Active student participation in the committees is essential. Get Involved As we begin a new and fresh year, so begins the revival of Concordiensis. Concordiensis has, and will continue to be the written voice of the College community. But, we, the editors, are dedicated to more than just expressing the thoughts and actions of the Union College Com· munity. We'll seek to follow an idealistic and innovative direction. Through new organization, enthusiasm and optimism, we hope to give Concordiensis a fresh and positive appearance. We, the editors, will attempt to share a few ideas, interests, and viewpoints with our readers. We have begun by widening both the size and background of our staff. We have brought many new and unique ideas to the paper, that we can pass along. We have made major revisions in our financial organization in an effort to reduce our dependence upon student tax money. The outward appearance of the paper is an im- portant ingredient in its overall character. We will try to create an appearance pleasing to the eye. Most importantly, though, we will try to make Concordiensis an exciting and valuable contributor to the College'. Thr ~Jugh our fresh approach, we hope to attract those interested in being involved, and create a paper representative of the aspirations and in- terests inherent in the College it serves. Concordiensis will not appear next week, Oct. 12. A regular edition will appear the following week. Editors-in-Chief Production Manager News Editors Layout Editors Feature Editors David Schmertz, David Rubin Debbe Damrell Jim Davis, Sue Barnhart Doug Rosenfeld, Danny Wojnilower Roslyn Stone, Donna Greeley, Lee Glickman Matt Nagorsky Terri Moran Steve Monosson Lisa Voerman, Eileen Kanter Tom Buiocchi Cary Feuerman Gary Bowitch, Maryann Popeil Ken Marks, Valerie Juster, Michele Coven Melissa Cragin JanDeDeka Robin Cornick, Alissa Schragin, Marty-Dolan, Rachel Mandel, Doug Rosenfeld, Lynne Greenberg Pat Wright, Jon Axel, Gregg Arnold Eric Goldring, Carole Jan Finig, Dwight Pakan, Steve Geller, Richard Sher Larry Fallek, Andrea Fink, Dale Sponaugle, Darrel Seife, Susan Paela, Jenifer Aronoff, Sharon Moss ' Associate Editor Classified Editor Arts Editor Environs Sports Editor Photo Editor Copy Editors Subscription Editors Calendar Editor Fine Lines Editor Staff Photo Staff Business Opinion: Student Forum On the Move by STEVE RICHARDS It is time you became acquainted with some of the projects your student govern- ment has tmdertaken these first days ofthis new academic year. If you are like me, you want to see th~gs happen. The following are just a few of the recent developments: It is the belief of many, in- cluding myself, that students receive less than adequate payoff for their Student Tax money-now $99.00 a year. We are forming an ad hoc com- mittee to work with the Tax Committee. They will have the job of inspecting and cataloging all capital equipment now in the possession of student organizations recognized by the Student Forum. This catalog will be con- tinually updated so that the forum and the tax committee can keep a closer eye on this equipment and determine its depreciation more accurately. This will tell us where we stand at all times so that we can plan better, and appropriate your money more effectively. This ad hoc committee will tell us just how much equipment we have. From this information we can determine how much space will be required to store this equipment. We are going to find a suitable room to ~tore these materials when they are not in use. Only authorized individuals wi!l be allowed access to the equipment for specific activity-related use. This should cut down on theft and misuse. ~ Also, the Student Forum should meet in a room con- , ducive to serious deliberation. It should be an attractive setting and easily accessible to members of the College com- munity. We should meet at a reasonable hour. Consequently, we have moved our meeting place to the Hale House dining room, beginning with our Oeober 9 meeting, at a time to be decided this week- either 7 or 8 p.Hl. An agenda will be posted in the Student Activities office at least 48 hours prior to the meeting time each week. Unless otherwise notified, all members of the College community are invited to our meetings. The student government should h~ve its own conference room and office. Steps are now being taken to find such a facility, and we should have definite possibilities before us in two to three weeks. This would provide for better organization-a central place for committee meetings, files, etc.-a more cohesive govern- ment. It would help alleviate the continuity problem we face each year. Each week, for one hour a day, five days a week, I am available especially for student input. The times change each week and can be found in each issue of Concordiensis. Until we get our own room, I will be in the Student Jtctivities office during these hours. I encourage each of you to stop by . If the times are inconvenient, I can be reached at 224 Fox, in Phi Gamma Delta, or by calling 372-6332 or 372-0172. I will give you a third number next week. It's important that we com- municate. Richards' Hours Steve Richards will be available in the Student Activities office for discussion with students during the following hours in the week beginning Oct. 9: Monday and Tuesday: 9:30 a.m. to 10:30 a.m. Wednesday: 11 a.m. to noon. Thursday and Friday: 10 a.m. to 11 a.m. Autumnal Colorburst Union students don't have to travel far to see lots of fall color. It's at peak in_ the higher elevations of the Adirondack Mountains, according to reports received by the New York State Department of Commerce. Long Lake rates its color at peak. Obser- vers stationed in Indian Lake, Saranac Lake, Schroon Lake, Speculator-Lake Pleasant, Tupper Lake and Wilmington said that fall color in their area is at peak. Peak color in any one area normally lasts for only three or four days, though it can remain brilliant for a ·~ week. ~ e In othe regions of New York State, color is ::::; advancing slowly. Catskill Mountain areas .il ranged from ten to 50 pe1 cent while color in ~ the Finger Lakes was rated at about 15 i percent change Fall foliage color is just beginning to blossom In Jackson's Garden. i I' 1 t i i.' 'It's c H This Yf. Weekend i 13-15, an director of expecting~ return for PH by The Pc: held its f tember 2l represen ·President the meeti big even season, wl oo Septen The sub on the ag that fres extended On Nover 14th fresh first three which wil College.T pledging 1 14th. The ag« This t~: system i: Union Co final grad \B \C March2,: Senate vc plus and 1 into effec Twice I voted on \plus\ a for final Mr. Carl \Student apparen1 came tc however, Ar On Fric McPartl~ Hall at 8: informat] On Fr Edmund perform1 South Indians Coffeehot open at f On Sat Bookbind and ragti Doors O( more inf 1703. On We Paul StJ songwri1 guitarist Eighth S Coffeeh01 Albany; 8:45 p.m. On ~ 12, Terri and Pau perform ms and l be heard RecitalH Albany's On Fri' and 10:00 the 7th at That Mo• Cocteau': being she at 75 N' Albany. 7371. OnTue p.m., Pet

CONOORDIENSlS. October 5~ l918 ilt's olwoys a great time' Homecoming 1978 This year's Homecoming Weekend is scheduled for Oct. 13 ... 15,. and- . Paul Connors, director of alwnni programs,. is expecting aneast lOOOalumni to return for the event. PHC News byOANBOOTH \It's always a great tlme,.\ said Connors, a 19.74 graduate. \I've heeli back every year Since I graduated. With 1:111 the functions, it's easy to renew old l:lcquaintances. And now with the Pu:b, there's a \1lace for independents to gather.\ He added that since the op- ponent inthe weekend's football game is: RPI., a lai:ger·than· usual nwnber of local alumni will probably visit the campus to Wfltcl\ the traditional rivalry. But retarnees come from all over the country, Connors said, \PeoplE from as far away as California for homecoming.'' Here's a schedule of Homec()ming events: Friday., Od. l3 . The Pan-Hellenic Council held its fir-st meeting on Sep- tember 28. with sixteen Greek fepresentatiV'eS present. \President Mike Squier opened - the meeting by discussing the._ big events of the rushing season, which off.icia1ly opened discussion of the Brown Cup point .system. Briefly, this s.ystem Involves awarding p()ints to the fraternities that do the most to benefit Union, whether it be socia:lly, academically or athletically. The Bro.wn Cup is. awarded to the fraternity earning the most .points .. It is the Pan-Helfenic Council's aiD). to uphold these high standards through this process df screening ,possible members. A committee, headed by Carmen Saginario, vice- president of the council, will meet to determine what changes will be made to this All day admissions in· tervie:ws:..For alumni sons and daughters. Contact toe ad- m.issions affice for an ap- Book shor'tages remedy for long Jime in bookstore-a dubious trade-oft, Photo by Richard Shl!f' 011 September 20th. · pointment. . . Why the shortage.s? The subject of bids was also on the agenda: It was decided that freshmen bids will be extended until November 6th. On November i2th, 13th, and 14th fresh,men may place. their first three choices in...:.bidi boxes, which will be placed in West ColJege. There will be no formal pledging until after November 14th. 3 p.m. CAMPUS TOUR·· Starting at Lamont House, conducted .by students. 3:30 to ·l) p.m. THE MAKING OF A BIOGRAPHY .,...Wi!J.iam M. Marphy, Thomas Lamont Professor of Ancient and Modem Literature, will discuss Bookstore Blues The agenda also included a procedure. · . The next meeting of the PHC wlll be h~ld on Wednesday, October- 4th. by PETER PERRIN his .recently ;published book, At the beginning of each term, Prodigal Father: The Life of students inevitably purchase Jolin Butler Yeats ( 1839-.1922) in books for their classes. But, Strauss Lounge, Carnegie Hall. often the campus bookstore 3:30 p.m. JV SOCCER VS. does not stock enough of every RPI-Ge~ris F'ield. volume and some students must . . - 7 p.rn. AGENTS . AWARDS wait for a new shipment. The N · G· . ·- d· • s · t' DINNER-C()cktails at 7 p.m., blame for this inconvenience is . . e w r a Ill g . y s . e,nt dirtHer at 3 .p.m. . shared by the faculty, students, · . 8: 30t<J 10 p.m. ICE SKATING· and the bookstore management. - -Adults $1.50, children $1. In the '78 spring term, 16,57~ This term a new grading system is being instituted at Union College, In the past, all final grades were given by \A \B ''C,\ \0 or \F.'' On March 2, 1~78, the Union College Senate voted to put a partial plus and minus grading system into effect. Twice previously, the Senate voted on whether or not to use ''plus\ and ''minus\ grading for 'final grades. According to Mr. Carl Schmidt, Registrar, \S:tudent oppoSition was very apparent.\ When the issue carne to vote last March, however, there was no longer any .student protest. The Senate voted the \!)Ius\ and \minus\ grades would have the quality point weights of \A~\ (3.70):, ''B+'' ,{2.70), ''B-\ (2.70), \C+\ (2.30), and \C-\ (1.70'). No \plus\ or ''minus\ grades w.ill be used with ''D\ and ''F''. The use ofthe n'ew system w.ill be up to the professors' discretion. According to Mr. Schmidt, \Students shouldn't expect every professor to submit \plus\ and ''minus\ grades.\ The effects of the new grading system are yet to be seen. Area Calendar Music On Friday, October 6, Marion McPartland will appear at Page Hall at 8:30p.m. For tickets and information call 457-8606. On Friday, · October 6, see Edmund and Quintain Badoux perform traditional music of the South· American Andean Indians ai the Eighth · Step Coffeehouse in Albany. Doors open at 8 p.m. __ On 'Saturday, October 7, Roy Bookbinder will .perform blues and ragtime at the Eighth Step. Doors open at 8:00 p.m. For mote Info call 489-7648 or 434- 1703. . . Viva Max -at the Eighth Step Coffeeh(iuse in Albany. For info see other Eighth ~tep listings. Exhibits On October 7 & 8, The Saratoga Festivar of Miniatures will be held in the Hall of Springs in the Saratoga Spa State Park. The event is sponsor.ed by -the Action Council; doors will be open at 10:00 a.m. on Sat., and at 11:00 a:m. on Sun., and will close at 5 p.m. each day. For more ·in· formation call the Saratoga Performing Arts Center at 584· 9330. Continuing through Oct. 22 at Russell Sage College is an exhibit of seven artists, cour- ' tesy of the Kornblee Gallery ill New York City: The show can be ·found in the New Gallery in the , Schacht Fine Arts Center; 9 Rentals available at Achilles books were ordered a.nd 12,472 Rink. or 75 per cent were sola on the 9 an.d 11 p.m. ALUMNI whole. The average cost of CABAHE'T IN CARNEGIE returning the remaining books HALL--Tickets for Union's is 7 cents packing cost and 18 unique 11fght club are $1 and can cents shipping cost per book. be p\lrchased at the Alumni The price of the average book Continued on page 9 sold i~ $6.50, the wholesale price Govern(lnce drafting committee 'C•anges Inevitable' byJIMDAVIS Students are invited to attend a me.eting of the drafting committee on governance at Union the afternoon of Wed· :i nesday, Oct. 18, and make ~ suggestions. The meeting will ~ also be open to other members · .~ of the College commWlity. \ The governance drafting ~ · committee was established as o part of this year's self-.study for l the Middle States accreditation review. Prof. Byron Nichols, chairman of the committee. Its chairman, Byron A. Nichols, an associate professor of politiqal 'Science; in a memo dated Sept. 18.,. wrote that -Hthe issue of ·governance' is one of the most sensitive and troubling - ones t() be considered. Few individllal.s appear to be happy with current decision-making proced11res.'' .. He added that ·•our efforts will not !)e a polite formality; rather tiley will become the focalp<Jint fora serious review of the governance system.\ Student .. Forum President · Steve Ricltards is another men1ber of the committee. He agreed that ''change . is . inevitable., as a result of the 'drafting committee's findings. structures. Commenting on the present governance structure, im· plemented in 1971 and revised in 1975, Prof. Nichols said, \Students have considerable theoretical power. But \they have traditionally failed to exercise the power that has been granted them on paper.\ Presently, he noted, the committee is \in the process of gathering illformation. '' . Accordin.gly, written proposals wiU be accepted fhrough Oct. 30, as well as suggestions made at the Oct. 18 meeting and one schedUled for Oct. 25 for faculty members. of it along with store operation expenses absorb all but 20 cents or 3 per cent of the retail price. So, because of this low profit, to order a reserve surplus would not be economically feasible for the book store. The reasons for the shortage of volumes include errors on the . part of the professors when estimating the enrollment during the previous term. Some faculty do not • place proper emphasis, and as a result do not consider all of tt~ factors or submit the quantity and titles of books after the ordering deadline. And, because professors constantly change course required books, the store may not stock a large volwne of reserve books but can only . order the necessary amom1t. The store and the Dean of Faculty hope to arrive at a resolution of these .problems involving faculty some time in the future. One bookstore employee estimates that 50 per cent of the student body change courses between pre-registration and registration. Students often pre- register for any course in order to avoid a $10 late registration fee i.Jlstead of investigating the courses beforehand as they have the opportW1ity to do with information supplied by the college. Because pre- registration figures are con- sidered, there is much room for error here. Because Union is the only area school to permit students to drop a cour$e witbin two or three weeks of school its bookstore has the unique problem of not having sufficient data to determine how many books will be returned and resold and how many books should be reordered. The bookstore, however is also not flawless in this matter. When re-ordering a book, they consider its history; if students share bOoks (as is frequently the case with multiple title courses), or if many students purchase used books from other students. On Wednesday, October li, Paul Straussman, folksinger, songwriter' and classical guitarist will, ~rfoi'In at the Eighth Step. The Eighth Step Coffeehouse is at 14 Willett St., Albany; performance time is 8:45p.m. On THURSDAY, October 12, Terrence Dwyer, baritone and Paula Ennis, ,piano will perform works by Bach, Brah- ms and Ravel. The recital can be heard at 8:30 .p.m .. in the Recital Hall of the University at Albany's Arts Center. a;m. to 5. p.m., Mon.-Fri., and 2 to 5 p.m. on Sundays. . . This month ·in S.U.N.Y.A.'s Fine Arts ,building on Washington Ave. inAlbany,-two e:Xlhibits will be going on. The sculpture ()f David Hayes will show until Nov. 1 and an en· vironmental exhibition about In his memo, Prof. NichOls outlined six issues that \loom as ·ma,j<lr sources of concern.\ They are: Hillel Dinner Planned Films On Friday, October 6 at 8.:00 .. and 1():00 p.m. and on Saturday the 7th at 8:30.p.tn., Did You See That Movie is presenting Jean Cocteau's Orpheus. The film is being shown in Auditorium One at 75: NElW S.cotland Avenue Albany. For details call 436: 7371. - On Tuesday, October 7 at 8:30 .p.m .• Peter pstinov will star in ._, ~unsighted peQple called ''I Am Not Blind\ will run until Oct. 22. Gallery hours: closed Mon.: Tues.~Fri, 9-5 p.m.; Thurs. 'til 5 'P.m.; Sat. and Sun. 1-4 p.m. For further information contact Marijo Fasulo, Assistant Director. . Continuing at the Junior College of Alb{iily is the showing of the prints of Peter Sowiski in the Rath.bone Gallery. The gallery hours are 1-'6 p.m., and the show ·will rW1 until Oct. 19 . -The fate of existing struc- tures, especially the AH~College Senate.. the Planning and Priori ties Committee and current standing .committees. --1'he divisi.ena'l basis of faculty or-ganization. -Trustee-campus relation- ship, including the role of camp11S trustees. -·1'h~ ;Cllr.rent ambiguity between the responsibilities of the dean offaculty anti the dean of graduate and continuing educatio11. · -1'he r<>le and responsibility of stude11t ,participation. _ -1'hE relationship between administrators and governance by JILL STEIN For the first event if the fall term, one of the largest groups on campus, J.S.O. Hillel, is excited to announce a Friday night Shabbat Dinner. It will be similar in style yet still unlike any of the pi•evious dinners, Ate you in the mood for some good food and exciting company? Do you want a different Friday night experience'? If so then come to the Friday night dinner October 6 at· 6:00p.m. at the Kosher Kitchen -(Davidson Co- Op). Ip addition to the good food, there will be a beautiful slide Show of Isreal and two speakers frotn the Schenectady com· munity. They are Alex HaUenstein and Chai1n Marog. Reserve your place now. Seats to this dinner are in great demand. Call Rhoda at 370.Q623 or Alan at 37.77-6205 .. This dinner is a bargain at only $2.00 ivr mern bers and $3.50 for non- members. As indicated by the enthusiasm expressed at the organizational meeting, this year promises to be productive and exciting. ALL ARE WELCOME I

L t ' ,. CONCORDIENSIS. October 5, 1918 Page 7 'It's always a great time' Homeco-ming 1978 This year's Homecoming Weekend is scheduled for Oct. 13-15, and Paul Connors, director of alumni programs, is expecting afleast 1000 alumni to return for the event. PHC News by DAN BOOTH The Pan-Hellenic Council held its fi:rst meeting on Sep- tember 28 with sixteen Greek representatives preseRt. ·Presider:~t Mike Squier opened the meeting by discussing the big events of the rushing season, which officially opened ar1 September 20th. · The subject of bids was also on the agenda. It was decided that freshmen bids will be extended until November 6th. On November 12th, 13th, and 14th freshmen may place their first three choices in bid boxes, which will be placed in West College. There will be no formal pledging until after November 14th. The agenda also included a \It's always a great lime,\ said Connors, a 1974 graduate. \I've been back every year since I graduated. With all the functions, it's easy to renew old acquaintances. And now with discussion of the Brown Cup point system. Briefly, this system involves awarding points to the fraternities that do the most to benefit Union, whether it be socially, academically or athletically. The Brown Cup is awarded to the fraternity earning the most points. It is the Pan-Hellenic Council's ailT,l to 11phold these high standards thrGugh this process of screening possible members. A committee, headed by Carmen Saginario, vice- president of the council, will meet to determine what changes will be made to this procedure. The next meeting of the PHC wiH be hdd on Wednesday, October 4th. New Grading Systen1 This term a new grading system is being instituted at Union College. In the past, all final grades were given by ''A,'' \B \C \0 or \F.\ On March 2, 1978, the Ur:1.ion College Senate voted to put a partial plus and minus grading system into effect. Twice previously, the Senate voted on whether or not to use \plus\ and \minus\ grading for final grades. According to Mr. Carl Schmidt, Registrar, \Student opposition was very apparent.\ When the issue came to vote last March, however, there was no longer any student protest. The Senate voted the \plus\ and \minus\ grades would have the quality point weights of \A-\ (3.70), \B+\ .~2.70), ''B-\ (2.70), \C+\ r2.30J, and \C-'' f1.70J. No \plus\ or \minus\ grades will be used with \D\ and \F\. The use of the new system will be up to the professors' discretion. According to Mr. Schmidt, \Students shouldn't expect every professor to submit \plus\ and ''minus\ grades.\ The effects of the new grading system are yet to be seen. Area Calendar Music On Friday, October 6, Marion McPartland will appear at Page Hall at 8:30p.m. For tickets and information call 457-8606. On Friday, October 6, see Edmund and Quintain Badoux perform traditional music of the South American Andean Indians a1 the Eighth Step Coffeehouse in Albany. Doors open at 8 p.m. On Saturday, October 7, Roy Bookbinder will perform blues and ragtime at the Eighth Step. Doors open at 8 :00 p.m. For more info call 489-7648 or 434- 1703. On Wednesday, October 11, Paul Straussman, folksinger, songwriter and classical guitarist will perform at the Eighth Step. The Eighth Step Coffeehouse is at 14 Willett St., Albany; performance time is 8:45p.m. On THURSDAY, October 12, Terrence Dwyer, baritone and Paula Ennis, piano will perform works by Bach, Brah- ms and Ravel. The recital can be ~eard at 8:30 p.m. in the Recital Hall of the University at Albany's Arts Center. Films On Friday, October 6 at 8:00 and 10:00 p.m. and on Saturday the 7th at 8:30p.m., Did You See That Movie is presenting Jean Cocteau's Orpheus. The film is being shown in Auditorium One at 75 New Scotland Avenue, Albany. For details call 436- 7371. On Tuesday, October 7 at 8:30 p.m., Peter Ustinov will star in Viva Max at the Eighth Step Coffeehouse in Albany. For info see other Eighth Step listings. Exhibits On October 7 & 8, The Saratoga Festival of Miniatures will be held in the Hall of Springs in the Saratoga Spa State Park. The event is sponsored by ·the Action Council; doors will be open at 10:00 a.m. on Sat., and at 11:00 a.m. on Sun., and will close at 5 p.m. ·each day. For more in- formation call the Saratoga Performing Arts Center at 584- 9330. Continuing through Oct. 22 at Russell Sage College is an exhibit of seven artists, cour- tesy of the Kornblee Gallery in New York City. The show can be found in the New Gallery in the Schacht Fine Arts Center, 9 a.m. to 5 p.m., Mon.-Fri., and 2 to 5 p.m. on Sundays. This month in S.U.N.Y.A.'s Fine Arts building on Washington Ave. in Albany, two exhibits will be going on. The sculpture of David Hayes will show until Nov. 1 and an en- vironmental exhibition about unsighted people called \I Am Not Blind\ will run until Oct. 22. Gallery hours: closed Mon.; Tues.-Fri. 9-5 p.m.; Thurs. 'til 5 ,p.m.; Sat. and Sun. 1-4 p.m. For further information contact Marijo Fasulo, Assistant Director. Continuing at the Junior College of Albany is the showing of the prints of Peter Sowiski in the Rathbone Gallery. The gallery hours are 1-6 p.m., and the show will run until Oct. 19. the Pub, there's a \Jlace for independents to gather.\ He added that since the op- ponent in the weekend's football game is RPI, a larger-thaJil- usual number of local alumFli will probably visit the campus to watch the traditional rivalry. But returnees come from all over tne country, Connors said. \People come from as far away as California for homecoming.'' Here's a schedule Gf Homecoming events: Friday, Oct. 13 All day admissions in· terviews-For almnni sons and daughters. Contact the ad- missions office for an ap- pointment. Book shortages remedy for long time in bookstore-a dubious trade·off. Photo by Richard Sher Why the shortages? 3 p.m. CAMPUS TOUR-- Starting at Lamont House, conducted by students. 3:30 to 5 p.m. THE MAKING OF A BIOGRAPHY-William M. Murphy, Thomas Lamont Professor of Ancient and JVI odern Literature, will discuss Bookstore Blues by PETER PERRD; his recently published book, At the beg~r1ning of each term. Prodigal Father: The Life of students inevitably purchase John Butler Yeats ( 1S39-1922) in books for their classes. But, Strauss Lounge, Carnegie Hall. often the campus bookstore 3:30 p.m. JV SOCCER VS. does not stock enough of every RPI-Garis Field. volume and some students must 7 p.m. AGENTS AWARDS wait for a new shipment. The DINNER-Cocktails at 7 p.m., blame for this inconvenience is dinner at 8 p.m. shared by the faculty, students, 8:30 to 10 p.m. ICE SKATING- and the bookstore management. -Adults $1.50, children $1. In the '78 spring term, 16,576 Rentals available at Achilles books were ordered and 12,472 Rink. or 75 per cent were sold on the 9 and 11 p.m. ALUMNI whole. The average cost of CABARET IN CARNEGIE returning the remaining books HALL--Tickets for Union's is 7 cents packing cost and 18 unique night club are $1 and can cents shipping cost per book. be purchased at the Alumni The price of the average book Continued on page 9 sold is $6.50, the wholesale price Governance drafting committee 'Changes Inevitable' by JIM DAVIS Students are invited to attend a meeting of the drafting committee on governance at Union the afternoon of Wed- ~ nesday, Oct. 18, and make t suggestions. The meeting will ~ also be open to other members >- of the College community. 5 The governance drafting 11 committee was established as o part of this year's self-study for l the Middle States accreditation review. Its chairman, Byron A. Nichols, an associate professor of political science, in a memo dated Sept. 18, wrote that \the issue of ·governance' is one of the most sensitive and troubling ones to be considered. Few individuals appear to be happy with current decision-making procedures.\ He added that \our efforts will not be a polite formality; rather they will become the focal point for a serious review of the governance system.\ Student Forum President Steve Richards is another member of the committee. He agreed that \change is inevitable\ as a result of the 'drafting conunittee's findings. Prof. Byron Nichols, chairman of the committee. structures. Commenting on the present governance structure, im- plemented in 1971 and revised in 1975, Prof. Nichols said, \Students have considerable theoretical power. But ·they have traditionally failed to exercise the power that has been granted them on paper.\ Presently, he noted, the committee is \in the process of gathering information.\ Accordingly, written proposals will be accepted through Oct. 30, as well as suggestions made at the Oct. 18 meeting and one scheduled for Oct. 25 for faculty members. of it along with store operation expenses absorb all but 20 cents or 3 per cent of the retail price. So, because of this low profit, to order a reserve surplus would not be economically feasible for the book store. The reasons for the shortage of volumes include errors on the part of the professors when estimating the enrollment during the previous term. Some faculty do not place proper emphasis, and as a result do not consider all of tl:c factors or submit the quantity and titles of books after the ordering deadline. And, because professors constantly change course required books, the store may not stock a large volume of reserve books but can only order the necessary amount. The store and the Dean of Faculty hope to arrive at a resolution of these problems involving faculty some time in the future. One bookstore employee estimates that 50 per cent of the student body change courses between pre-registration and registration. Students often pre- register for any course in order to avoid a $10 late registration fee instead of investigating the courses beforehand as they have the opportunity to do with information supplied by the college. Because pre- registration figures are con- sidered, there is much room for error here. Because Union is the only area school to permit students to drop a c:ourse within two or three weeks of school its bookstore has the unique problem of not having sufficient data to determine how many books will be returned and resold and how many books should be reordered. The bookstore, however is also not flawless in this matter. When re-ordering a book, they consider its history; if students share books (as is frequently the case with multiple title courses), or if many students purchase used books from other students. ln his memo, Prof. Nichols outlined six issues that \loom as major sources of concern.\ They are: Hillel Dinner Planned -The fate of existing struc- tures, especially the All-College Senate, the Planning and Priorities Committee and current standing conm1ittees. --The divisi{)nal basis of faculty organization. -Trustee-campus relation- ship, including the role of campus trustees. -·The current ambiguity between the responsibilities of the dean of faculty and the dean of graduate and continuing education. -The role and responsibility of student participation. -The relationship between administrators and governance by JILL STEIN For the first event if the fall term, one of the largest groups on campus, J.S.O. Hillel, is excited to announce a Friday night Shabbat Dinner. It will be similar in style yet still unlike any of the previous dinners. Al'e you in the mood for some good food and exciting company? Do you want a different Friday night experience? If so then come to the Friday night dinner October 6 at 6:00 p.m. at the Kosher Kitchen (Davidson Co- Op). In addition to the good food, there will be a beautiful slide show of Isreal and two speakers from the Schenectady com- munity. They are Alex HaUenstein and Chaim Marog. Reserve your place now. Seats to this dinner are in great demand. Call Rhoda at 3'70-6623 or Alan at 3777-6205. This dinner is a bargain at only $2.00 i:vr members and $3.50 for non- members. As indicated by the enthusiasm expressed at the organizational meeting, this year pl'Omises to be productive and exciting. ALL ARE WELCOME!

Page 8 OONCORDIENSIS, October 5, 19\18 HorrorHitsCampu \ Lips.! Lips! Lips! Last Friday and Saturday nights, the Union College Film Committee sl}owed the R.Qcky Horror Picture Show for the second year in a row. The Committee featured Rocky Horror last winter and this year it was as much ·of a success as it was then. The film was shown ai midnight in SS 016 and had an overflow crowd, surging with enthusiasm over the rather bizarre movie. Rocky Horror is an audience participation · movie and the number pf people who retum to theatres· all over the .country to scream out their lines again and again is amazing. Many theatres show the movie at midnight after their regular features and many of their Broadway Bob at Union by DONNA CREELEY This term Union College is fortunl;tte enough f() have Robert Walter as a Visiting Artist in Residence. and Guest Director of the Mountebanks upcoming production of ''Tom Paine\. Robert Walter, who bEgan as· a news.pftper carrier in Cleveland Heights, Ohio, is· a very versatile human being, Producer, writer, director and teacher are just a fe\v of his titles. He is a member of the Actors Equity Associati()n, The Dramatics Guild Inc-,. ~nd the International Platform Association. In 1969 he was awarded a bachelor of Science in Speech degree from Nor- thwestern University. At present he is the Artistic Director of Metaphorrns Inc., a non-profit Arts Research Laboratory in Ne'W York City. Bob has held tne position of Guest Director several times before at other locations, and is the Founding Director of the Water Ensemble and the Theatre Mobius of Chice~go. He has also been the Conceived Director for several Multi- Media Pieces and the Adapted Director on many others. Broadway isn't just a dream to Bob, who has been Produc- tion Stage Manager on four productions, including A Streetcar Named Desire, and Stage Manager on two, Let My People Come and Sherlock Holmes. 'In regional and stock tours he has held such positions as production stage manager, production supervisor, produ~tion coordinator, ad- vance director, associate produc.er, and executive producer. Besides the theater, Bob has also worked in the field of Television and Film. He was the Production Researcher for Alexander H. Cohen's production of CBS: On The Air _ which was broadcast nationally in March, the Production Consultant for the Canadian Broadcasting Corporation's The Many Faces of Love and Production Supervisor on the film Outlaw Sheriff?. Bob was also been the director of Home Rock On! by BOB BLAKE This past summer s~w the release of L.P's from some of the biggest, and rnost. well established groups in rock. Some were acclailned as grea~ comeback L.P. 's, a few of which will be the topic of this article. is nevertheless a masterpiece .. It features Jagger shouting out the pressures of society amidst the perfectly deadpan, burntout vocals of the rest of the band. Another swnmer release of note was the Kinks \Misfits\. \Misfits\ is the second L.P. the Kinks have done since they abandone'd their theatrical concert presentation and gotten rid of their female vocalists and their horn players. The first result of this. change was the throughly excellent \Sleep.- walker\ L.P. of last year. \Misfits\, in my opinion is even better. Movie, the author of On The Lam aad author-Director ofThe World of Star Trek. An accomplished poet and author are among Bob's other qualifications. He has written several poems, audio-visual Social Studies Scripts, and the following plays: Things, Str~wberries, Beep-Beep and The Dev'l & Dan'] Webster (the winner of the Best Play Award at the Cleveland Ohio High School Drama Festival in 1967}. He was the author and producer of the musical, }tobin·, in association with Entertainment Group Inc. and The Ice CapaEles Inc. Bob is also the founding Editor of Box, a mixed-media quarterly. Union College is very honored and very pleased to have Bob Walter with us this term. The production is tentatively ·'scheduled for early November. Look for future articles in Cotcordiensis containing fur- ther information· concerning \Tom Paine.\ Unlike the non-satirical \Sleepwalker'' \Misfits'' contains a number of very topjcal, satirical songs which Ray Davies is best known. Of these \Hay Fever'', \Per- manent Waves\ and \In a Foreign Land\ are outstanC:Iing on all counts. · The satire may just go a bit too far at times as exemplified in two of the songs, \Out .of the Closet\ and \Black Messiah\ - - . ' but all in all this is an ~- ceptionally fine L.P. \Misfits'' is a meticulously produced album that is funny, moving and in parts great rock and roll. One of the most hearalded album of the swnmer was \Some Girls\ by the Rolling Stones. \Some GirlS'' is without question the Stones'bestalbum in years. Although the early release of \Miss You\ brought fear into the hearts of. r()ck and roll fans, many ()f whom believed the Stones had gone totally disco, one listening to this album has their fears quickly dispelled. Platters' Plight Plu.mmets The Stones prove they can still rock ·out on the .album's three high paced rockers, of which '•When the Whip CQmes Down\ outshines the others. The most endearingrnonlents of the L.P. howE:ver are the softer nwnbers. There is a witty country and western song, \Far Away Eyes\ the likes of which the Stones have not done in ages. \Beast of Burden\ ranks up as one of the ITlOst en· chanting and touching songs the Stones have ever done. \Before They Make tile Run'', which features Keith Richard's whining vocals, is perhaps his final statement on life before he goes to trial in Canada. \Shattered\ closes the L.P. and althoug~ ~h~ is a novelty song it by STEVEN J. MONOSSON R~ccrd quality, as of recent, sucks. There's no doubt about it, our precious records are being pressed and shipped Wlder the worst of conditions. Record buyers- can nowadays find anything from intricate pat-· ~ems. to dorma~tv . ~olcanoe~ unprmted on the1r discs. The time has come for the public to stand up for its rights (and- its records) and demand clean sounding, dent free platters. Does your copy of \Saturday Night Fever\ sound as though you're listening to i.t from under a waterfall? Well, that's because those inscrutable record company executives are snickering \Hee hee. Let's use that leftover car roof top vinyl the auto body shop threw QUt yesterday for today's pressings. Who'll know? I'll never tell! ! behind your back and getting away with it. They claim rising · costs as the cause of this delapidation, but I say hogwash. A little care never cost anything but a touch 9£ extra effort. So if your Ramones record sounds beaten up, write to the record company artd COMPLAIN. For if no· one speaks out,. the companies will continue to proceed in their evildoings. Tomorrow's disco beat just may be timed to the skip in the ri;lcord . . . patrons frequent those theatres week after week. The film stars Tim Curry as Frank'n Furter~ Bar.ry Bost- wkk as Brad Majors and Susan Satandon as Janet Weiss. The infamous Meatloaf playb t.he role of Eddie, singing his way through. \Hot Patootie~Bless My Soul\ to the audiences' delight. The crowd in SS 016 was not as professional Rocky Horror .fans as iH most theatt·es, but none the less enthused. The rice flew, the· rain rained and the toast toasted. Costwnes dQtted the audience reflecting the .general feeling. Cries of \lips lips'' and \Brad you're an asshole\ were. So the memory began. As the gentleness settled, against the morning sun; my eyes close, heard· tht:oughout. 'Ole reaction h the movie was mixed. One movie-goer com- mented, \it was bizarre, rather decadent.\ Another said, \I liked it, but I would not have wanted to have seen it stratght., The Rocky' cult members adored it, Jeff Siegal ofthe Film Committee could be heard above the roar of the crowd both nights. There was even an off campus party in honor of the showing on cam- pus. There are tentative plans to show it again next term so everybody·; \Lips; Lips.\ a tear drop hangs from one eye lid, so the memo..Y began .. Holding you in my arms, caressing YOJlf Figurement in my mind, yes dear, very imaginative. I hold a drink in one hand, because it is so hard, so hard, my dear, being away from somebody, .SP beautiful that I love so.mueb. Gettihg up, opening a window to t!:ie dew, I feel the moist breeze blowing, gently against my chest, making me cold and wet, which reminds me, of the touch of your tongue moving against my body. Oh sexy lady, I desire your presence, not only now, but, all day long. I remember· your smile awakening my body, from the everyday dreams I often find myseH in. I Returning back to _the warmth of my covets, feeling the security ·you give me, as the gentleness settles, against the morning sun, the tear drop falls, both eyes, close. -J.Johnsou ,. Please send all Fine Lines Poetry to Jan De Deka, Fine Lines Editor, Box 1388. (Poems can be anonymous if you'want.) Not Mellow 'by NATE KEEVER As Rolling Stone magazine has printed, \You can insist you're Look, I'm a normal person. i' civilized, like Henry Kissinger, played sandbox when I was five, . and end up acting like a reptile. Monopoly at ten, and other ··Or you can explore that un- things as the years passed by. I · couscious rage, £ike The Dead also like baseball,. hot dogs, ·Boys, and still end up acting like apple pie, Chevrolet, and a little a reptile.\ When lead 'singer punk rock. Stiv Bators roars-- Now wait a ~second and let me explain myself. Remember the movie \Network\ when Peter Finch screams, \Jim mad as heJl and I'm not going to take it anymore!!\ and the whole country screamed along ·with him? That's rage: that's anger at the whole world for pushing you, shoving you, and squashing you with its collective thumb, You scream and yell and get generally pissed off at everybody and everything. Capture tbis angst with guitars and drums and you've got The Dead Boys, the best rock and roll .group in America today. To pass off their work as worthless trash is to commit the very human act of self denial. I don't need anyone Don't need no Mom and Dad Don't need no good advice Don't need no human race And I got some news for you Don't even need· you, too (\Sonic Reducer\) -all the losers in the world can claim a hero. Recall the last titne you found yourself throwing darts at that picture of a C. T~ up north who was looking for a husband when all you wanted was a toll in the hay? Find her and tell her I, I don't need your company. Girls like you all come for free. Continued on page 11 Horneec Of£ice durin! office in Car 8 p.m. Saturday, o~ 8 to 10 a.rr MEETING- House. 9 a.m. to INTERVIEV lind daught admissions pointment. 9 to 11 COMMITTE Conference House. . 10 a.m. b MENT Rl following d arranged prt to rneet frier and find out Athletic room, Achill Biological S3l0, Sci' Center Chemistr Science-Engl Civil Engi Butterfield I Computer Center Electrical N102, Sci' <!:enter Englist Hwnanities · I.A.M.-roc Mechanic room N Engineering Modern Literatur Humanities · Philo sop Hwnanities .Pnysics-R Room, Stein: Ponti cal Hav.: byJ Last We representat fraternities The even1 Gateway I local bee1 promote M~ The ball. marketed b; a half ye: gallons of d with a tap. sportable-a weighty ke€ \This is a Gateway S Mark, who the demons place in I fraternity. \The bal replace keg: that half~kel gallons of t take them and the bt because the you can pac While M; price of bee is higher th also said tl for each f \cheaper tl beer in any He was a campus vi~ another G; and Gene L representati Russo sait promotion because \U always be drinkers.'' And mem Phi Sigma Delta Upsilc Delta frate1 correct. Th conswning · th~t was , program. \It's a gre Handler, a comment .... ball anywhe1 lots to -drir venient. Yc football garr day,in your out or to tht have to stuc

Homecon1·ing '7 8 Office during the day. The box office in Carnegie Hall opens at 8 p.m. Saturday, Oct. l4 8 to lQ a.m. ClASS ~GENTS MEETING-~Lower lounge, Hale · House. 9 a.m. to new ADMISSlONS INTERVIEWS-.for alumni soil and daughters. Contact the admissions office for an ap. pointment. 9 to 11 a.m. P AR·ENTS COMMITTEE MEETING-- Conference room, Lamont House. . 10' a.m. to noon DEPART- MENT RECEPTIONS-~The following departments have arrange~ programs for alumni to meet friends .and professors, and find out what's new: Athletic · department--warm room, Achilles Rink Biological scierrces--room S3l0, Science-Engineering Center Chemistry--room Nll6,. Science-Engineering Center Civil Engineering-room 204, Butterfield Hall Computer Science-Computer Center Electrical Engineering-'room N102, Science-Engineering €enter English-•room 112, Hw:i1anities building I.A.M.-room 31U, Bailey Hall Mechanical Engineering-- room N210, Science- Engineering Center Modern Languages & Literature--room 110, Humanities building Philosophy--room 114, Humanities building .Physics-Rojansky Lecture Room, Steinmetz Hall Polltical Science--second Have a Ball by JIM DAVIS Last Wednesday evening, representatives of five College fraternities had a ball-of beer. Tlle event was sponsored by Gateway Beverages, Inc., a local beer distributor, to promote Matt's draft beer ball. The ball, which has been marketed by Gateway for about a half year; contains five gallons of draft beer. Equipped with a tap, it is easily tran- sportable-a big advantage over weighty kegs. \This is a .great novelty,'' said Gateway Sales Manag-er Bob Mark, who eame to Union for the demonstration, which took place in Phi Gamma Delta fraternity. · \The ball isn't designed to replace kegs,\ he noted, adding that half~kegs contain almost. 16 gallons of beer. ''But you can take them almost anywhere, and the beer will stay cold because the ball comes in a box· you can pack with ice.\ While Mark said that the pric_e of beer dispensed in balls 1s htgher than it is in kegs, he also said that its pr'i:ce--$12.50 for each five-:gallon ball--is \che~per than you'll pay .for beer m any supermarket.\ He was accompanied on his campus visit by Don Russo, another Gateway. employee, and Gene Lonnergan, a Matt's representative. Russo said that the beer ball promotion was staged here because \Union students have alyvays been great Matt's drmkers.'' · ~nd members of Sigma Chi, Ph1 Sigma Kappa, Delta Chi, Delta Upsilon, and Phi Gamma Delta fraternities proved him correct. They had no trouble consuming the beer and pizza that was supplied with the program. ·H \It's a great. ~~ea,\ said Dave andler, a FIJI brother . in a comment. \You can take 'a beer ball anywhere and have lots and lots. to -drink. lt's very con- vement. You can take it to footb:=tU games, outside on a hot day, m your room when it's cold out or to the library when y()u have to study.\ CONOORDIENSIS, Octobe.r 5:, 1978 Page 9 Continued from .page 7 fl~or faculty lounge, Social Sc1enc~s .building Psycholo.gy--room 204, psychology laboratory 11 a.m. to 5 p.m. COLI.EGB BOOKSTORE OPEN 11 a.m. FIELD HOCKEY VS. · RPI-Garis Field. 11 a.m. VARSITY SOCCER VS. RPI-.Daley Field. 11 a.m. CAPITAL DISTRICT CROSS COUNTRY MEET VS. RPI, SlENA,. ALBANY STATE~ -Alexander Field. · U:30\ a.m. LUNCH-Look for the refreshment tent on Lamont House lawn. Beverages, hot dogs and hamburgers will be sold before and during the football game by the Block :U Society. Noon TAIL. GATE PICNIC.-. Oak Grove below Memorial Field House. · Noon TERRACE COUNCIL LUNCHEON 1 p.m. UNION RUGBY CLUB VS. ALBANY MEDICAL COLLEGE-Library Field. 1:30 p.m. FOOTBALL VS. RPI-Alexander Field. 4 p.m. VOLLEYBALL VS. ULSTER·•Memorial Field House. 4:30 to 5:30 p.m. ALUMNI COUNCIL RECEPTION-- Immediately following the football garne,k all alumni, parents, fetmilies, friends and faculty are invited to Jackson's Garden or Hale -House if weatlle,r is inclement. -M~ic by the Umon Jazz Ensemble.· Late afternoon FRATER- NITY HOMECOMING PAR- TIES 8:30 p.m. MEN'S AND WOMEN'S GLEE CLUB CONCERT-\A Night at the Pops\ in Memorial Chapel. Sunday, Oct. 15 10 a.m. ORGAN RECITAL-- Professor Hugh Allen Wilson, Me!llotial Chapel. 10:30 a.m. INTERFAITH CHAPEL SERVICE--Rev. Lyman G. Potter, Class of 1946 and Union Colleg~ Gl'ee Clubs, in MemoriaJ ChapeL Environs by LISA A. VOERMAN ANIJ EILEEN L. KANTER Ver often Union students have the urge to explore new and different places in the of:f- camp~s environment J just for a change of pace). Whether it be for lunch, dinner or evening entertainment, most students find their favorite places to go and \getaway from it alL'' It is fo'r this reason that Con- cordiensis will explore and review some of the area restaurants and bars. Hopefully, our articles will guide you to some interesting places to go, and perhaps, tell _ you some terrible places to stay away from. Located at the bottom of State Street,. the Oxbow Inn already appears to have quite the following of business groupies during the luncheon hour. The atmosphere can only be described as rustic and rather cramped, feeling as though you are actually eating lunch with the strangers at the next table: fits only a foot and a half away) This is not the place to go for an intimate conversation. However, the food is by no means cramped, quite the opposite is true. The portions are incrediblv abundan for their prices. The luncheon menu prices range from two to four dollars. The Oxbow Burgers, some with great cheddar cheese and other with mushrooms will cost you about 2.50. They are 7 oz. of fresh beef and can disgrace a MacDonald's Big- Mac. The Hot Oxbow Old Favorite Sandwiches are heaping portions of any variety of meat from Turkey, old- fashioned knockwurst and pastrami, to the imaginative Oxbow Heartburn, (hot pastrami, fried onions, peppers, cheese, beer and mustard-it does indeed give you heart- burn: J All these sandwiches run from 2.50 to 2.95. The salads are. also a Large delight and the unique_cheddar cheese dressing really adds to the tastiness. The sideorders of steak fries and their cheese cake desserts are house specialities and are in- . deed worthy of being called ''special\. For about 4.50 per person, with tip and tax, the Oxbow is a good deal >r Union Students with a hearty appetite and a taste for home-made foods. I The service is quick, thorough ~nd not bad looking- based upon our waitress-Chris l. Vv'ilson ... Continued from page 2 They're very serious ndnded, It's a very competitive situation in the colleges .and universities, though now, of course, everybody has got an equal chance compared to the old days where they were screened off at the age of eleven, and condemned to go to a school from which it was almost im· possible to get into the university. A private hobby of mine, before I even thought of becoming a party leader or prime minister, was the Open University. People who have missed out .for one reason or another, illness, family dif- ficulties, perhaps they were in the war, can now study through television, radio and correspondence as well as local counselors & tutors and it's the biggest university in the world. It's now being copied in 30 countries, and this is one of the most exciting things happening in Britain. ItS different things to dfffefE:\nt people Of course. all employeus at tlw :'\a I imwl St ~cu ri I\' Agency hanJ curtain things in cnmmon: th£!\. an; t.i\·ilianemployeos of the D(!jl<ll'lflHmt of Dufpnst>: they are en):!aged in technical projt?c:ts \·it<d ttl mrr · nation:s t:omrnunicalions s<Jcuril\' m a ftJrt.!i~n intelligence productimi mission: ·mtd 't lw\· all tmjor the belmfits that accom.p<m y Fedm·al mni)ll 1ynwn t .' Howe\·er. tlHJ differencus betwtHJll our cart!PJ' opportunities aru just as inturnslir\~ <IS tlwir s'imilarilies. For Hxamplo .... TO THE ELECTRONIC E::\CIXEEH < BS \lS l: .\n :\'S.-\ career means dd\·ing into uniquu prujucts \\'hich can span enny phase of thn R&D cych!. :\n tliH!i.JWtH' nHn design •. develop. l<Jsf and n1anagu contracts on · comnnmicHtions. recording. and informatill!l stor<H~t' dmtcns and syHtmns \\'hosn capacitins and spntlds are still considered futuristi·c in most qumlt!rs. TO THE C:O:\fPl .. fEH SCIE::\TIST (BS MS): It means <tpply~n\..!. hi_s ur lwr knm.dedgo in a wide range of !->Uh-tils.uplmP~ such as sysl!.Jms design. systems pro- \.!l'i,lllllll.l!l~. npt>rat!n~ systnms. computer applications clll ctlysts. d r:d wt rwntl systems. ·ro THE :\1:\THE\!:\TICI:\~ (i\15): A career means dl'i'!nin~.:. ftl!'lllllliltiu~. and soh·ing complex communi- catto~ns-nda!tJd prohl1!ms. Statistical mathematics. r_natn': alt.!t!hra and comhi·natorial analysis are just a it•\\' nf tlw tools applied by the NSA mathematician. ' htl Prt>sltJd in I~Htrn1ng more about the difference in <lll \S.\ carl't'r? Sdwdulu an intm;Tie\\' with us through yom Studt'nt Planmwnt Office todav. If we do not n•cruit lllt YllUr c:amims. snnd a resu'me to the address \.!i \'1111 ht !]()\\'. l'.~. c:itiwnsl1ip is rnquirod. NATIONAL SECURITY AGENCY Attn: M321 FMt George G. Meade, Maryland 20755 An Equal Opportunity Emp m/f.

Page H) CONOORDIENSIS, October 5~ 1918 class ifi~{')s \If it's important, it's in Class~fieds\ BUllETIN BOARD We have just received in- formation on the following scholarship, internship, and fellowship programs-. Please contact the Placement & Career Resources Office for further infonnation. Envirnomental Intern Program: .. · Special Libraries Association Scholarship Program-Appli- . cations must be completed and returned by Jan., 15, 1979. National Science Foundation Graduate Fellowships-Appl- ication deadline is Nov. 30, 1978. National Science Foundation. Postdoctoral Fellowships-- Application deadline Nov. 3, . 1978. The Placement & Career Resources Office bas received . information on the following programs: · 1. Newspaper Fund Intern· ships and ScholaPships--50 sumn1er internships offered primarily in editing. Request · applications-November 1, 1978; applicati<m deadline- .. Dece- rnber 1, 1978. 2. Weal Fund--Washington · Intern--Summer Internship, Fall Internship, Intersession Internship, Spring Internship. 3. Philip Morris Marketing- Communications Competition Anybody who gave books to the Delta Gamma Book Exchange, please piclt up your books or money at the Delta Gamma house by Oct. 20, 1978. Lessons will be offered on the Intramural level free for students in figure, beginning and hockey skating. All In-. terested students are welcome to come and join the instructors! . Sue Portin and Becky Hershner and learn to skate to your heart's content. No experience is needed for any of the classes. Just come with skates and an instrur·l or will assist you. Tht skating schedmle is as follows· ·· · Mondays-9:30-10, beginning &figure skating; 10-11, Hockey; 11· Begin ring & figm~e . Tuesuays-9:30-1(}, Beginning · & figure; 10-11, B~ginning & figure;. U, Hockey .. Wednesdays-9 :.30-10, Begin- ning & figure skating; 10-11, Hockey; 11, Beginning & figure. Thursdays-9:3().10; Begin- ning & figure skating; 10-11, Beginning & figu~e; 11, Hockey. Fridays-No classes. Any further questions, con- tact the Intramural ()ffice or Sue at 372~2264 or Becky at 372• 6681. CAMPUS CALENDAR for College Students. Deadline: l December 15, 1978. 4. Urban Corps - Volunteer Program-summer Internship · · ~~=~-'--- .in New York City. ARE. T Th d 0 t 5 5. Federal Summer Intern CAB · . urs ay, · c . - Jose Morales and CUff Program . Broverman and Friends. 6. Coro Foundation · Second act to be announced. ·Fellowship--Research & Shows 9:00 and 11:0(}. Education in the field of Public Tickets on sale a:t ~:00 in the Affairs. Norton, Conn. 06820. front hall of Carnegie. Any left Deadline: January 15, 1978. over tickets will be sold at the ATTENTION: PRE-LAW STUDENTS The following law ~chool representatives will be available in Professor Board's office, SS 216. October 10, 9-11 a.m., Professor Jane Krastel, CAPITAL UNIVERSITY October 18; 3-4:30 p.m., Dean Roy Steinheimer, WASHINGTON & LEE October 24, 10-12 a.m., Professor Melvin Shimm, DUKE October 26, 9:30=11 a.m., Professor Richard Pearson, BOSTON UNIVERSITY (Note: for this visit, two group sessions--one begins at 9: 30; the other at 10:25) October 27, 10-12 a.m., Professor Leslie Peat, VER- MONT LAW SCHOOL November 1, 9:3()..11:30 a.m., Professor Frank Di Giam- marino, CASE WESTERN October 23, 3-4 p.m., Professor Baker, WESTERN NEW ENGLAND. door. The Biology Club will sponsor a seminar on INSECTS AS CHEMISTS today at 7:~0 p.m. in SS016. The talk will be given by Dr. Thomas Eisner, a professor of biology at Cornell University. The seminar is open to students from all majors, and will be followed by a reception and informal talk where beer, soft drinks, and mU11chies will be available. STONE BOAT CLUB meeting Thursday, 10-5 in BUlOO at _7 p.m. If ·you missed the first meeting, here is y()ur second chance. All are welcome .. We will try to organi~e paddling practice sessions ~·on the Mohawk (it IS clean enough to swim in, though we do not plan to) and o.utline tne concrete research and testing which we . will do thiS term. BLOODMOBILE DRIVE, Thurs., Oct. 12 and Fri. 1 Oct. 13 . · in AlUilll1i Gym. The SOCIAL COMMlTI'EE thanks all those wllo attended their meeting last Thursday. Weekly meetings will be held on Thursdays at 7:(1Q p.m .. in the Student Activities I..ounge. All enthusiastic people are welcome! unanimous decision at our first meeting, P.Y.E. decided to , change its name to something . with more impact. We chose Studed Environmental Alliance ~S.E.A.). To kick off the year, S.E.A. is sponsoring a bike hike along the Mohawk bike trail by Knolls Atomic Lab. · ' We will be leaving from behind · the fieldbouse Saturday·, October 7 at 1:00 p.m. We hope to have some refreshments at the end of the trail, which is Colonie Park, roughly ,12 mile~ (rom campus. This activity is open toeveryone who has a bike or can bol'row one. A sign-up sheet plus details will be posted on the bulletin board in student activities. Don't forget the . ENGINEEJUNG PICNIC this Sunday, October 8 from ~:00- 6:00p.m. in.Jackson's Gardens .. For only $1.00 you can eat all the . hamburgers, hot dogs, and salads you. want, drink BEER . and soda and all in an nave a GREAT TIME!!! All students interested in engineering are welcome, as well as those who want to pay$.1.00 for ~11 the food they can eat. SEE YOU THERE, On :Monday, October 9, UNION BOOK is having an organizational meeting for all those interested in working on ANY aspect of the Union Book, Union's yearbook. This meeting will be at 8:30 p.m. in the Student Activities Outer Lounge. If you are at all in- terested in working on any aspect of the book--layout, photography, business, etc.- come to this meeting and let us know. We have to get the book started SOON! ! If you can't , make this meeting, leave your name with Mrs. Marra in the Student Activities Office. SEE YOU THERE!! The Philosophy Department presents ROBERT BAKER of the Union Philosophy- Depart· . ment. ln his talk, \Deciding About Death,\ he will discuss some of his recent research on medical decisions to discon- tinue life sustaining treatment. The talk will be on Friday, October 13, in Humanities 213 at 3:30 p.m.. Refreshments and informal discussion in Humanities Lounge im· mediately following the talk. TENURE NOTICES. An ad hGc committee has . been app<Jinted by the Provost to gather evidence concerning the tenurability of Assistant Professor Ann M. Seemami of Schaffer Library. The com- mittee herewith solicits written c.ontributions from all members ~ of the college_community who · may be familiar with Professor . Seemann's work. All' response · should ,be directed to Professor Anton Warde, the chairman of · the committee, in the Depart- ment of Modern Languages and Literatures, Humanities Building. · LIBRARY -·60 percent of Schaffer Library circulation is via the reserve collection. For this reason, we have opened a separate Reserve Room on the lower level of the library. It will be. open the same hours ~s the rest of the library. SMOKING-Because of our concern· for the effect that smoke has on delicate library materials, we have decided to ban smoking in the entire library, except for the- area below the ramp in the All Night Study. When An ad hoc committee bas . :mtroductory III:eetingu, NION been formed to consider the Diplomacy Fails. ~ qualifications of .Professor COLLEGE'S MILIT~J.!Y Rudy Nydegger for SIMULATIONS C~1JB. Friday,._ .. tenurability. Any students, Oct. 6, SSllO at 7 •. 30 p.m. faculty, or alumni who wish to • express an opinion on this . FOLKD:ANCIN<i every matter either~in Writing or by A committee has been established, chaired -by Professor Joseph Finkelstein, to discuss the tenurability of Professor of the Arts Charles Steckler. Anyone wishing to add comments to the committee's discussion is invited to do so, in 'person or ln writing, b~ con~ tacting Professor Finkelstein, Room 2f4, Social- Sciences BUilding, extension 6221.. The Provost has appointed an ad hoc committee to evaluate · the tenuta~ilit¥ of Assistant Professor George D. Reynolds .of the Department· of Mathematics. Persons who are-. able to contribute' to the. com- mittee's investigation are ·in- vited to submit statements or give ·their names to the chair- man, E.J. Craig; Department of Electtical Engineering: and Computer Science, Steinmetz Halt ·· A committee to examine the tenurabUity of Eugelle s. Schneller of the Sociology Pepartment has been fo11Hed; consisting .of Professors Bit- telman · (Arts), Schaefer (Chem1stry), Scbinee (!.A.M.), and Wells (H-istory) .. Any · students, faculty, staff or · alumni who wish to contribute · to the review should contact . Professor WellS, the chainnan, · or any of the other committee members as soon as possible.\ HELP WANTED WANTED: Aggress.ive person to earn excellent money ($6-$10•hr.) selling parapher- nalia on campus. Must p1,1t in 6- 1(} hours-week. Contact Blown- ~ Away Enterprises, Inc .. , 272 North Kings Avenue, North Massepequa, N.Y. 11753. Anyone interested in running Cabaret's Game Night (Tuesday, 9-12:30, hours flexible) contact Cathy at 374- 8176 after 11 p.m. Anyone interested in per- forming in the Cabaret this term should contact Sue or Laura at 372-2264. We are looking for all_types of talent- so, come and show us what you can do!! ELECTRICAL T_ECHNOL- . OGV:-·-Instructjon position lo begin Nov. 20, 1978. Full time position requires MS in Elec· trical Engineering or equivalent. education with · emphasis on electronics,. micro- processors, ·and in- strumentation sy,stemsT . demonstrated ability through significant teaching and-or industrial e~perience; c~m- . mltment to · comprehensive . · Community College goals. Send ~ Resume by Oct~ 'Z7, 19?8 to: Dr. Douglas E. B~gham Dean of Faculty Schenectady County CC 18 Washington Avenue · Schenectaqy, N N. 12305 An Equal Opportunity, Affirmative . Action · _Efi,lployet. _ __.... _____ ~.......,.,_-· -. -..,.;..._~---~ SPORTS STATISTICIANs-- . This position opens next year, ' but the News B.ureau needS someone immediately so he· or she can learn the · ropes at remaining home· football. games this season. The responsibilities of tbe job • include ·home and away football • and basketball games, com,. · piling statistics on tltem, and · telephoning scores : to newspapers on away basketball . games. The job also involves com- . piling statistics for hockey and · baseball; taking post-game· telephone calls from coaches on · scores and highlights in other sports; reporting results to the newspapers; gathering other information from coaches or the athletic department as needed. 'Freshmen or sophomores who want to continue the work in the next few years are preferred. Grants-in-aid are eligible. Pleas_e send your name, address and telephone nwnber to the News Bureau, Lamont House, as soon as poSsible. Also tell us when we can reach you at your telephone number. RI.DE BOARD Ride wanted to New Rochelle or vicinity, Fri., Oct. 13, Call Debbie Schwartz at 382\\9735. PREPARE FOR: 4J)th J . . ·)Our~· MCAT • DAT •lSIT •liMIT ·Year - ORE • OCIT • VAT· ·SAT Flexible Programs & tt~urs CChere IS a differeri~elt'! Alba,..y Center ~- ~-H 163 DetawareAve. . ·. MPUIN. ~elrnar · . .. EDUCATI()NA.L CENTER. · phOne ( 518) 439-8146 . . TESt !'iiEPARATION • · SPECIAliSTS SII'ICE 1938 Outside N.Y. State Only CALL TOLL FREE: 800-223-1182 Centers In MaJor us Cities TorQnt!l, Puerto Rico and lugano, Switierland . . b:utch Hollow Pub Breakfast Specials everyd.ay ·_French Toast or 2 Eggs any $tyle with Toast and Coffee 99 C . M ' PETS-They are not allowed in dorms this year; the library follows suit. - Friday night•-Union College · oral testimony, shoUld contact Arts Bldg.-Dance Studio, 2 nd · at their earliest Qpportunity any . floor-no partners necessary- member of the ad hoc com- · · instruction 8:30 to9 :3D-Request mittee, -which is composed of Steak and Brew Any women interested in playing ice hockey. No ex· perience necessary. Call Debbie Schwartz at 382-9735. dancing 9:30- to. l1:3D-Union . Prof. Joseph Board (political students free--all others 75 science), Frank Calabria cents. (psychology), GU Harlow (civil engineering), Willard Roth S.E.A. BIKE HIKE (bi logv) P.Y.E. no longer exists. By · _ 0 ~_~ __ • _ ___. __ ......... ~r- every Friday and Saturday ~ight 5:00-8:.00 * Many menu selections to elto&se fro~. - uc To Union's, team open with a ban three gar margins .. season, t seven goa Marty M second se~ with a c rebuUding co.nductin season; wt and a half Last ye; successful with a .500 team antic successful more exp Seven J returningt including wartz an, Driscoll, Villeneuve Gulick~ an Heininger an,d Oebbi1 will acquir the additi< K.~ul, wbo while bein, and Charl1 Dot Scar Nancy Colt Klepp and working h: and antic successful quite stron offensive I The ·forwa and the de keeping tt relied\on ! to a minin . The Du into their victory o September scored the season intl the game\ the right There was after this \ gaining me tbeir ch However, game at 01 to go in chwomen c Jane Guli< bully and Dot Scarpi ball to tt Playrema and With :l half., the awarded Buthaina pass frorr. rifled a Col:)l~skill to a. 2-1 h~ The mo into the sel Union-dor plie·d .C()nSI CobieskiU awa~ wit aggressivE especi.allJ Villeneuve Stern, to< goalie D forward cohesive ShUkri ScCl and Ellen Gulick ea< On We~ chwomen ceUent pex ahomecrc: of Russell pletely dt never let From the Dutchwor moving t excellent · terchangt stantly bel · to the hall. cohesive.· super &tic Right lnD

CONOO!lDl~NSlS, Qct.ober 5,. 1f18 Page ·11 UCoU Stickwomen Off· ,< porte To. _Roaring Sta:rf ~- Union's women's field hockey score~ Union's first two goals in team open~d its season this fall the opening moments of the with a bang by winning its first game. Again, play remained in three games· by substantial the_ opponents~ end, with the margins. At this point in the Sage -defense having trouble season) the team averages . clearing the ball past their own seven goals per game. Coach · 25 yard line. Center Jane Gulick Marty Morrison began her scored in the final minutes of second season as head coach the half on· some -aggressive With a continuation of her play in front of the Sage net. rebuilding program by again . The ~econd half also belonged conducti:ng a rigorous pre- to Union. Right wing Charlotte season; which included a week Thomas, Left Inner Ellen and a half of dollble practices. Heininger, and Center Jane Last year the team had a (Julic\t all scored single goals. successful season and finished Cre~it again should go to with a .500 record. 'this year the Union's defen.se 1 composed of team anticipates ao even more halfb~cks_ Mona Klapp, Judy succel'tsful season because of . Dri.scoll,, and Nancy Colt and nwre expe_rit:mce. ~mcf depth. fullbacks. Wendy Villeneuv-e, Seven letterwomen are Barb Kaul,. and Lisa Stern and returning to the startjng lineup, Goalie Deb Schwartz. This unit including seniors Debbie Sch~ --llelped in applying pressure on waftZ _and co.~captaip Judy , _the Sage goalie while also not Driscoll, juniors Wendy allowing a single shOt on Deb. Villeneuve and co-captain Jane Schwartz. This was the first Gulick, and sophomores Ellen time in the history of Union's Heininge~, But~aina Sllukri, women's field hockey~ that no and Debbie Downey. The team shots were permitted on goal. will acquire more strength with The Juriior Varsity also the addition of seniors aarb played Russell Sage and came K_~ul, wno missed last .()eason ~way victorious. Sage struck while being on a term abroad, . first, but the Dutchwomen dug and Charlotte Thoma,s, Junior· . down and hustled to com~ away Dot Scarpinato, Sophomore with a 3~1 victory. Goal scorers Nancy Colt, and freshmen Mana :were Senior Laurie Colligan, Klepp and Lisa Stern. AU are &ophornore Lorin Neenan, and working hard with enthusiasm freshman Lynn Stenberg. . and anticip~tion of a very On Friday Vassar visited successful season. The team is Union but came away empty- quite strong and agressive both handed. Union walked away offensively and defensively. · with an 8-1 victory. Union The forwards are go~l-hungry completely dominated the first and the -defense prides itself on half and again constantly keeping the shots on heavily- pummeled the Vassar goalie relied.on goalie Deb Schwartz with hard,_ accurate sh'Ots. As a to a minimum. result of this pressure, the . The Dutchw(}men plunged Vassar defense btickeled and into their season with a 6-1 Union scored seven goals in the victory over Cobleskill on first half. Buthaina Shukri September 22. Debbie Downey scored first for Union, but scored the first goal of the Vassar· came storming back seasoniiltheopeningminutesof with a goal for a 1-1 tie. Here, the game with a hard shot ·from the Dutch women dug down and the right side of -the -circle. got the adrenalin flowing and There was fast two-way action scored Si\ straight goals. after this with the Dutchwomen Buthaina Shukri had two more, gaining momentum and having Left Inner Ellen Heininger tneir chances to score. scored three, and Deb Downey However, Cobleskill tied the scored once. game at one with four minutes The second half saw Vassar to go in the half. The Dut- get their second wind. Their chwomen came charging back. sticks were more sure and they Jane Gulick won the r.esulting began to play as a unit. The bully and passed to· left wing Union_ defense, however, was Dot Scarpinato who carried the more than equal to the task and ball to the Cobleskill ·circle. Vassar came away with no Play remained inSide the circle goals in the half. Buthaina and With 30 seconds left in the Shukri tallied once for Union to half_, the · Dutchwoinen wete make it four: goals scored in one awarded a penalty corner. Buthaina Shukti received the pass from Deb Downey -arid rifled a shot passed the Cotil~skill goalie., lifting Union to a. 2·1 halftime lead. The momentum ·continlled into- the secondJtalf,. which was u~~Ol)-dominated .. Union ap- phe~ constant pressure on the Cobleskill defense and came away with a fhl win. The aggressive play of the Clefense, e~pe~iaUy fullbacks Wendy .. · Vllleneuve, Barb Kaul; and Lisa Stern, took pressure off . of goalie Deb Schwartz. 1 The.. forward line clicked: as -·a· cohesive unit with Buthaina Shukri scoring two ipore goals and Ellen Heininger and Jane Gulick ea.;h scoring one. · game. At this pOint in the season, Union has outscored its op- ponents 2():.2 and the defense is allowing an average of only two · shots on goat per game. The Dutchwomen are a willing, detennined, aggressive, and hard-working team with tremendous potential. The teaiTJ, has come a long way in the p~st two' years thanks to the strong and dedicated efforts of coach Marty Morrison. Come and see the Dutchwomen fn action on· FrJday, October 6 olf Garris Fieldat3:·3o as both Varsity and . Junior· Varsity teams take on the tough opponent of Castleton. See you'there. _ P .S. On Monday, U!lion . defeated Cl•lgate for the first . time ever, 3~l.Colgate exhiQited some excellent play, but Union played. even better. Ellen Heininger scored' twice in ·the first half and halfback Nancy- Colt tallied once for Union in the second -half. Not MeHow WA.NTE.D: Student to work in Union College electro-~ydraulic fatigue lab. Job involves taking measurements and some mairttenance arid design of equipment. I Student must be available through 3/30 Hourly pay negotiable THE SHIRT:lN 1601 UNION ST. SCHENECTADY, NY -(ACROSS FROM GERSHON'S) -377-7823 ASSORTED STYLES & COLORS - . TEE SHIRTS CHILDRENS •TEENS •MENS •WOMENS CUSTOM LETTERING & DECALS 50% OFF All Decals and Screening with Union I. D. Continued from page 8 Open: Mon., Tues., Wed., Fri. 10-5 But I, I don't really wanna <~ .._ _______ T_h.._u_r .... s_. _1 o_-_9..;.; ..;;S..;;a..;,t,;.. . .:.1'0;;..·..;,4 _______ .J dance. Girl, I just wanna get in your pants. 1 \I Need Lunch\ Sure, it's sexist as hell, but tell me it's not real. The music is backlashing anger itself, so charged with emotional fury that it either sends vou off or puts you off (your sex'can play a significantrole in that decision- ed. l . I originally bought The Dead Boys first album, Young, Loud and Snotty, because I liked the name. You can never tell wh~thet they're goofing or senous, so for $1.99 I figured I'd see what it was all about. I played it LOUD on an 80 watt stereo, and nearly trashed the room. By the time it was over, I felt like killing the first hippy I saw. So; whe~ I saw the group last Frtday m Albany, I was primed for music to riot bv. Pla:ying to a packed club, they delivered a perforrnance that made the Rolling Stones look like a string quartet. I left, soaked in beer catharsized, and glad -that somebody had finally .got up the scrotes tq peel off some real. down to earth, mad mu1)ic. •JC•)JCfeross Parlr·SGrato;.•N.T.·Phone SB4•98UJ· ·Wednesda)J•:Frlday•S..turday fiPM- JAM· · ·Left off NorthwayExftl4· •Rit:hf on Ka).Nierou PariiRoad•Follow to Park· • the -'store front studio me .• ·a non-profit organization 302 mohawk ave, scotia . - feStiVe_ open.ing On Wednesday, the Dut- chwomen displayrd their ex- cellent performance in front of a home cr()wd with a 6.0 shelling of Russell Sage .. Union com- pletely dominated . play · and never let Sage .get ·started. From the opening l.iully, the Dutc,hwome~ were hustling, movmg thetr .feet, l)laking original rproducts of arts and crafts -saturday, oCt.- 14 . excellent cut$ and in- . terchanges, and . were con- stantly beating the Sage players ·to the ball. Theteaxnplayedas a cohesive. unit . and . exhibited s~per stick work and dodges. Rtght Inner Buthaina·· Shukri \ e artists ~nd artisans wanted to display, sell and demonstrate ' ' . .,._ . _ • art and mime classes for children starting soon / e ·ope~ tuesday ·sunday, 12-8, as of Oct. 10 for more information call 370- 5924 I • .. \

'\ Page 12 , OONCORDJENSIS~ October 6, 1978 6pOrt6 Gridders Even Record; Down WPI 14-7 l•y KEN PLUMB Utilizing an awesome ground game and some outstanding defensive efforts, Union came from behind to defeat the WPI Engineers by a 14-7 score. The game was a crucial one for the Dutchmen who had evened their record at 1-1 after losing their Senior quarterback Andy Terranova/ who ran and passed for Union's 14 points vs. WPI. Soccer Tea·m Suffers . Tough Loss to Army The Union College soccer team traveled to West Point last Friday and suffered their initial l~ss of the season. This was the ·first meeting between the two clubs andthe game proved to be both well plaYed and exciting. Eight minutes into the game Union drew first blood when Pete Handy · scored on the rebound of a John Kovacs shot. · Athlete A major reason for field hockey'.s great start this year is this week's athlete of the week, high-scoring Buthaina Shukri. Buthaina, a sophomore from Newton, Massachusetts, has blossomed this year into an excellent offensive player, scoring an astounding 9 goals in the team's first 3 games, In the season opener vs. Cobleskill, Buthaina connected for 3 goals in a 6-1 romp. Against Russell Sage, she popped in 2 early shots as the girls coasted to a 6-0 shutout. Vassar College was the next victim, as Buthaina rammed home the first goal of the game, then went on to score 3 more· goals for a tot;:tl of 4 in the game. With a goal per game average of 3.0, Buthaina certainly ranks among the national leaders, and if she continues her record- shattering goal production, there seems to be little hope for Union opponents. \ 7 Buthalna Shukri The remainder of the first half saw Army and Union battle to a stalemate with both sides playing good, hard soccer. At 29:15 of the second half, .the Dutchmen increased their lead to 2-0. Jim Manning and the .omnipresent Kovacs· combined . for the second Union goal, with Kovacs heading Manning's free kick past Cadet goalie Pete Schalberger. After this point; however, things began go1ng downhill for the Dutchmen. Less than two minutes later, Gary Yerks scored on a pass from Deryl Smoak and the Union lead was reduced to one goal. The Cadets contin.ued to apply pressure and at 20:10 Mike Rodemers collected the tying goal. Finally with seven minutes left in the game, Yerks scored the third and what proved to be the decisive goal for the Army. After the game, Dutchman coach Bob Magee commented that he was a little disappointed in seeing the 2-0 lead evaporate. B.ut Magee also admitted that it was not an easy task for a young club like Union's to defeat a well-disciplined Army team on the latter's home field. Magee, however, could draw solace from the manner in Which the Dutchmen had outhustled their tough Division I opponent. Particularly out- standing were the efforts of backfielders Manning, Mike Mulpeter, and Jamie'Hilton. One never likes to lose a soccer match but often times a close game against a strong opponent can prove to be a confidence builder. The net result being that . the team matures more quickly. With a team like the Dutchmen, the Army game could well prove to be a springboard to future success. The Dutchmen will conclude their three game road trip on Oct()ber lOth at Hamilton College. They will be back home at Daly Field on October 14 in the .Annual Alllinni Game. opener to Bates College. The day started off on a positive note .forthe home squad as junior safety Terry Weber~ intercepted a WPl pass on the second snap from scrimmage, 'ftle play gave the Dutchmen exeellent field position deep in WPI territory . but the offense was unable to manuever in for the score, The series. set a precedent which continued for much of~he first half as the Union defense would com~ plet~ly dominate their. op- .ponents in turn handing the ball to the offense Who would drive down the field only to give the ball up on downs with just a few yards remaining for the score. In the first nalf alone, Union found themselves inside the WPI 20 on no less than four occasions ·ind!lding a fourth and goal from the one, though they failed to score every time. Finally, the defense, who had held the WPI offense without a first down for the better part of ·- 25 minutes began to show signs · of . cracking, Grudgingly. they gave up grouna as the Engineers nickled and dimed their way down the field. A fourth dcwn 29 yard run by Worcestel' halfback Mike Robinson provide the only real big .play in the drive. Facing a fourth and goal from the 5 WPI Quarterback Art Hughes caught the Dutchmen in a blitz and hit halfback Terry McGratl} for the score. Thus, despite. having totally dominated the first half Union found themselves down 7~ 0 at the intermission. The Dutchmen, however, took the second half kick off and immediately marched the remaining 65 yards in 14 plays for the score. Terronova, 4~16-0 for 48 yar.ds, capped the effort when he busted over from the four though- Union still found themselves behind as the extra point was missed. · WPI then initiated a serious drive latein the thirdquarter.as they manuevered their way inside the Dutchmen 30. The Union defense, which had been coming up with the big play .all day, did so once again as corner back Ron Plumb tac.kled Worcester halfback McCarthy for a nine yard loss. The play was privital because it forced the Engineers from a second and three situation into a third and twelve. Hugbes, 5-12-1 for 31 yards 1 could not penetrate the blanket coverage of the Union secondary and was forced to throwthe.ball away setting up a punting situation.' Following the punt into the end zone, the Dutchmen took ovel' on th-eir own 20 with 10:27 left in thegame and began what was to be the game winning marcb. The key plays of the drive involved a 27 yard off tackle gallop by Romer and a 21 yard pass from Terranova to Kevin Fredricks, the latter giving Union a .first and goal from the 5. Four plays later Terranova rolled right and slid over from the one for the score. A two yard pass froin Andy to fullback Napadono gave the Dutchmen the lead 14-7 for the first time in the game with 5:30 remaining. Once again, however, , the kicking game hurt the homt.. team as a short kick enabled Rich Romer turns upfield for a chliilk·of his 173 yards rushing . WJ?I to take the ball over at midfield. The Engineers proceeded to drive to a first down on the Union 16 and the game was very much in doubt. However, a key third down sack of Hughes by junior Dave Feldman and fourth down deflection of a screen pass by ~ophomore Mark Polamba.gave the Dutchmen their first victory of the season. Union once again boasted a tremendous offensive attack netting.369 yards' 321 of wl:iicl'l came on the running .of Terranova, Romer and Napadono. Last years ALL- American candidate Romer led the Dutchmen with 173 yards in 34 carries followtM tiy Terranova with 98 carries. overshadowed by Romet' s tremendous individual effort was the blocking and ruiming of -Napadono smashed his way through the WPI defense Photo by Eric Goldring Whether he was carry'ing the ball or not. By far however, the key to the game rested on the tenacity of the Dutclunen defense who .provided the offense with outstanding field position for the entire contest. They displayed tremendous team pursuit as . W.orcester ball carriers were time and again gang tackled by for little ·or no gain. Middle linebackers Ed Elinski, Al Hertzberg and Carmen Audino ancbored the aggressive unit which gave up 7 points and onlY 21'3 total yards. - ' With an explosive offense and what now appears to be a solid defensive unit the Dutchmen appear to be well on their way to what could be a fine season. The next hurdle to be overcome is Colby College. Game time this Saturd~y is 1:30 at Alexander Field. Ruggers Romp Union College , Rugby astounded an inexperienced Albany State fifteen with a 30-0 thrashing. Being outscored 3..0 by Albany Law in a preseason scrimmage, 8_ept.. 23rd, the Dutchman attained top form in their season opener on Library Field.this past Saturday. Dave \Winger\ Walsh opened the barrage early in the game with a dazzling show of running and determination for the first Union score. Aggressive serum play repeatedly g~ve the home team superior field position leading to an awe-inspiring, tackle breaking gallop by Pete \Rocky Horror\ Felker. Burt \Golden Foot\ Slavin made . both conversions with his usual sure kicking to give Union a 12..0 half-time lead. Felker continued his gutsy performance by opening the last half with his .second try of · the day. John ''Schwarznegger\ Brown along with Tony Ward and Sc~t Shirken continued their dominance in the scrwn to , enable Union to·tak~ full control of the game. Superb line play by Co-Capt. Burt Slavin, Rookie I.ee Waxman and Jeff Heisler set up three closing scores by Co\'Capt. Chipp.er \Fleet .of Foot\ Fenn to round out the afternoon attack. Special thanks go to Bruce ''Weasil\ Pulliam. The \B'' game, a defensive battle throughout, resulted in a 0•9 tie. Commendable per- formances were put forth by Jeff \Poitz'; Poritzky, Matt Carley, Dan \Woody\'' Wood- ward and several rookies, The Union Ruggers take one of their best teams in recent memory to Williams College this week and return to play rival Albany Med. homecoming weekend, Oct. 14. Come ()Ut and support your team and drink some of the keg that will be on the sideline throughout the two games.· Vot I b~ - Beg 19th, f~rm~ dormi and violati ·Davie Tuesd The nounc, distrit at the begin David ' Sday. specti Wood, OCCUpl potent and s~ for roc who is of res.i housin and sa Cited plianc1 ~A De~ this Colle! enjo~ Week \Tt 13,000 them theas· Direc \As ~ previ1 the ~ not t1 howe regisl and 1 camt event In alumJ retutJ most \to r1 keep \to .s, meet

.- .! .-.Founded at Union College 1877 Vol. 1CJ8 Schenectady,. N.Y. October 19, 1978 Cainpus Student, F aCuity Trustees to Remain on Board er .. Richard G. Day Dr~ Richard G. Day, Chair- man ·of the Board of Trustees, said recently that the issue of whet.her campus trustees should remain on the BQard as voting members ''is not a real issue\ and Will not be dealt with :by the Board in the ·near future; In comments made to the draft commitee on governance, ·chaired by Professor Byron Nichols, Dr. Day instructed the committee not ta- review the role of student and faculty ~ trustees on the Board. By citing the fact that the role of campus trustees was not an issue the Board planned to address in the near future, Dr. Day, sources say, has avoided a PQtentially explosive and co.ntroversial issue. Of the campus trustees _ reached by Concordensis all refy.sed to .comment on Dr. Day's statements but it is believed that most consider his decision to be in the best in- terests .of the college at this time. Provost WilUaroHuntley, who however, did comment on Dr. Day's statements believed that the Boardmight still review the role of the campus trustees. Huntley said, \it can only be speculated whether Dr. Day's statements represent his personal opinion or the opinion. of the majority of the Board. Dr. Day has considerable influence as Chairman _but many mem- bers of the Board feel strongly about this, (and want to see it decided.\ Huntley also com- mented on his . personal opiniens, saying that he hoped ''they rthe Board) will leave this issue alone for a year or two until we can straighten out our internal structure. This is such a hot issue. We have so many important internal things to take care of first.\ Dr. Day, later reached for comment clarified his position, saying that though the Board had not addressed this question as of yet, it was of his opinion that the ~onsensus of the Board agreed in principle with his views. Dr. Day further went on to say that he personally felt that the student and fa~ulty trustees as voting members on committees se.rved a useful purpose. Though most colleges were following the trend to remove students and faculty from the Board as voting members, Day believed that this movement did not exist as a major force at Union College. Housing· tnspection Ordered - ~ . .,. The issue of whether students and facUlty should remain on the Board in a voting role, or an advisory role, reached the general attention of the college community when the recently released Hazzard Report recommended that 1 campus trustees be removed as voting members on the Board of Trustees. The Hazzard Report, conducted by a committee composed of persons un- connected with the college, found· that, in the Reports opinion, .a conflict of interest existed when faculty and students served as voting members of the Board. The Report argued that faculty and students would be more likely to by DAVID SCHMERTZ · B .•. egaijtting .. T.bursda. y;. Oo.t. 19th, the Housing Office . will formailly begin . insp.ecting dormitory rooms for \damage and health and safety violations,\ Housing Director - David Wood announced Tuesday. · The policy, initially an,. nounced in.._:a memorandwn distributed in room key packets at the start of the fall term, will begin with the inspection of the Davidson dormitory on Thur- _ Sday. The intent of the in- spection, accQrding to Mr .. Wood, is to \insure dormitory occupants protection against potentially dangerous health and safety\conditions to check for room damage .and to verify who is using the room as a place of re~iclence.\ Asked what the housing office.considered health ~nd safety violations, Mr. wood ci~ed electrical cooking ap- plumces as the primary area of concern. ''The primary danger,\ said Wood, \comes f:r!om electrical . applianQes which have open coilS, plates, an.d faces which may ignite inflammable materials in students rooms. A secondary consideration is the danger of periodic (meal .. time) overload of electrical circuits causing wires to heat up m dormitory walls.\ Wood ·said, however, that coffee pots, hot pots, and popcorn poppers (sealed UJlits only.} are permi~sible in residence rooms. Mr. Wood sa\'1 that, in his opinion, room if,spections are . required if the college is to uphold its l£;gal obligation to protect dormitory resident. \Unless we inspect rooms,\ said Wood, \we are neglecting our duty. 'l'he law requires you to do it. We have a greater legal obligation than, is normally present under land-lord-tenant relationships.\ The-inspection, said Mr. Wood, will also provide him with the ·opport~ity \to e:11;amina the conditions ~of -dormitory life. \'I can get a good idea,\ said Wood, \of the - conditions of t}le rooms. I'm genuinely concerned about the condition of the dormitories.\ Wood e;plained. that, following the inspections (which ac- cordingto Wood, will occur once a term) the housing office will be able to keep an accurate account · of all damages to rooms. Despite, regulations which -specify that fines of up to $25 can be levied upon students who violate the residence cooking regulations, Mr. Wood said that should violations be found, only warnings would be given \unless it was obvious that a cooking appliance was in use. If we saw a cheese sandwich melting in a toaster oven, or a steak cooking in ao oven, then ·-we would probably have to fine the resfdent occupants.\ Students informally have until AI - ·v·· · u· · ~ UIDDI ·tslt .DIOD by DONNA CR:EELEY Despite rather poor weather this past weekend, Union• College Alumni were able t9 enjoy -the Homecoming Weekend. \' \There are approximately 13,000 alumni, with-two-thirds of them residing in the Nor- theast,\ stated Paul Conners, Director of Alwnni Program~. \As a result of this, most had previous warning concerning the weather:-and often chose not to fight it.\. There were, however, 309 alumni - Who registered at the Larnont House and many more appearing on\ campus for the scheduled events.\ In speaking with sever.al alumni, we asked why· they returned for homecoming. The most popular answers were: \to renew old friendships\ \.to keep up with the campus life~\ \to. see· my old professors aod meet· thqse new to the staff,\ ;. and also \to keep in touch with friends and the campus in between class reunions!' Most of the alumni felt that the highlights of the weekend were the Murphy lecture and the Glee Club Concert. Also enjoyea were thcf Alumni Cabaret and Alumni Reception. One member of the Men's Glee Club stated, \The alumni reacted very favorably to the concert, composed mostly of popular . songs. This was especially true _with the medley of Union College Fight Songs performed at the end of ihe · concert. All of the ahunni were invited to sing along, and many did so.\ He continued by saying, ·\I feel the audience helped to make it a most enjoyable -!!Oncert to p~rform.\ The two Cabaret per· formances were easily sold out, with the audience consisting ~ostly Qt young alumni. The emcee for the Cabaret was the 1976 alumnus Pete Rubin. Gary Glauber ·and Rob Imrie per- formed original folk songs and Tod_d Miller played incidental piano. Continuing· with a tradition at Cabaret was a pa!'tomime to Rock music by Joe Zolner, a 1976 alumnus and present Director of Student Development. This year Joe was aided by Fred Berkowitz . In the evenings there were many fraternity reunions and both the Pub and the Rathskellar found their walls cramped by alumni. Paul Conners stated, ''This is my first year of running Homecoming and I feel I've really learned a lot from the experience. I'm looking for- ward to more involvement from the college community in the future, possibly with students arranging and ·conducting the weekend's activities.\ the end of the fall term as a grac~ p~riod to remove non· permissible cooking facilities. The practice of. room in- spection procedures in the dormitories is new to Union College. Students who have learned of the upcoming in- spections have reacted in a variety. of ways. The majority have expressed concern at the prospect of being \searched\ rather than \inspected\. Dave Wood also stated that the decision to undertake such procedures~ was purely ad- ministrative; originating in his office, without the consultation of the Housing Committee. He explained this by saying, \The Housing Committee is an ad- visory committee. My un- . derstanding is that all com- mittees connected with the administration are advisory. •• Acc;ording to Mr. Wood, the inspections will be conducted regardless of whether or not the students living in the room are present. All room inspections will be conducted personally .J>y Wood with the accompaniment of a resident advisor at all · times. Questions. regarding the inspection should be directed to. Mr. I)avid Wood. - Tepresent and·vote for the views , of their respective interest groups, rather than representing the interests of the College at large. The Faculty trustees, the Report continued, inight find themselves voting for pay raises even though such raises might not be in the best interests of the college .. According to the RepoFt such conflicts which occur under the employer-employee reiation. ship create a situation detrimental to effective governance. Opponents of the Report argue that faculty and student input override any such dichot'Omy. They argue that the Board would be unresponsive to the needs and views of tht: campus constituenties and would therefore be less ef- fect~ve without campus ..r.epresentatives as voting members. Director of Housing Dave Wood.

' I Page B OONOORDIEN818; October 19, 1918 Ed .. . I .· ·•tortas Resolution 136 Union College is currently undergoing a process of self-study :in preparation for a.n accreditation review by the Middle States Commission on Higher Education. The committees handling this study are comprised o:f those for Admissions, Athletics, Campus Maintenance, Energy, Governance., Matters; Curricular, and Graduate Program$. Even though 1t seems at qUtck glance that all areas of the College are covered, a glaring- omission is evident in the area of student life on campus. We beUeve that discussion of this, topic is essential to the well-being of the school. There has been much talk in the last two years of the • 'shrinking applicant pool'' in the coming ..decade .. How Vnion is ,going to continue to att-ract students of . high academic promise is a. problem which looms on the horizon. For ex~;mple: Through what sources wUl money be made available for the hnurovement of residence halls on campus?l True, much vandalism has led. to '\' the poor dorm ~onditions; however, · hoW does the 'administration intend to deal with sueh a problen:t? Such questions as these can only' effectively be addressed through the 41 convenient vehicle'' of a Middle States Association Committee. On Thursday~ October 26, the All-College Senate passed a reSolution which we consider very lm- po~t: . \It is Hereby Resolved that the All-College Senate recommends the establishment of a drafting com- mittee to study the topic of students and student life.'' We hope'! that the office 'Of the Provost, responsible for the self-study, adopts the recommendations of this resolution and addresses tb.is vital component of the Union College Campus. After all, without students there can be no co~lege. . A Reprieve Dr. Day's .. decision not to review the role of campus trustees as V()ting members on the Board of Trustees, whether absolute or tentative, is a sound one. For too long the internal structure .of the College has suffered - ·~ under a seemingly endless deluge of controversy. Though controversy is often the inevitable result of public debate, it is always going to preoccupy the thoughts and actions of its holders. Nonetheless, we believe that more harm than good will come to the College should the Board elect to rule on this issue during the pres~nt year. The COllege is presently undergoing a self-study in its preparation-for tlie Middle States review. This is an issue that «lannot wait nor be hurried. Th~ College must prepare for this review in a speedy, yet sound and judicious manner. To envelop itself once again in major controversy wlll only deter the completion ,of this important task. We .feel that both the Middle States review and the role of campus trustees on the Board are essential issues in their own right; and - issues that m11st be handlec:l with great care. But, we believe that the College community must hold the Middle States review as its highest priority. The College must direct all lts energy to ~mproving its internal structure before it examines its external structure. If the Board elects to reverse the priorities, and as a result, the College is once again preoccupied with controversy, then the College may suffer damaging cons~quences. .alliED,, '~!~~ .. Gournr ::3.~,4~ ).• • 17 :;f~~!; 95 1alfUStli r-o~'t!~ ' Editors-in-Chief ProductionMmager News Editors Layout Editor Feature Editors Associate Editor Classified Editor Arts Editor Environs Sports. Editor Photo Editor . Subscription Editors Calendar Editor Fine Lines Editor ~llLj):;. ~cr.u.., ·David Schrnertz, David Rubin DebbeDamrell Jim Davis; Sue, Barnhart Da.nnv Woinilower Roslyn Stone, Do~ lieeley Matt Nagorsky. Terri Moran· · Steve Monosson · Lisa V oennan, Eileen Kal'lter Tom Buiocchi CaryFeue~ Ken Marks, Valerie Juster, M~chele Cov«:n 1 Melissa Cr~gm JanDeDeu ' ,, Staff Phllto Staff Business Staff Alissa Schragin 1 MartY Dolan, Doug Rosenfeld,· RachelMalldel, Lynne Greenbe~g, S~Marr Jon AXel, Steve Geller, Pat Wright, · . Dwight Pakan, Richard Sher . Larry Fallek, Dal~ Sponaugle, Darrel Seife; r Susan Pava, J.enifei' AronOff,Sharon Moss . Letters .Transfer Dear Editors: I write this letter as a helpful . suggestion to the ad- . ministration and trustees of Union College and to ·everyone who has a great interest in the educational goals of the school. · I. was an undergraduate at the college during the years of 1976, and 1977. My academic interest changed from political science to anthropology and I was left in a difficult position. Since Union College does notoffer a major in· ·anthropology, I had. to look elsewhere. The study of an- ·thropology is related on many levels to other disciplines in the . social sciences, namely' economics, political science, history, . and . especially sociology. The lack of a com~ plete program in anthropology forced me to transfer to the University of Chicago, but mY loyalties still rest with Union College, This is why I urge that work begin in formulating a total program in anthropology. It might help others avoid .having to go the transfer route. .And I think that it will strengthen Union's claim of being an excellent liberal arts college. Sincerely yours, · William A. Risler, ex-'80 Loneliness Dear Editors: . - My name is John 0. Mendez, Jr., and I am an inmate in ~ttica State Prison serving a term of six to twelve years. I am writing you with the hopes that you may be able to assist me. As one might ima~ine, prison is a gloomy, depressing place. But more than that it is un,. bearably lonely! Sure there are others here to exchange a bit of . smalltalk with. H~wever, when the small talk \has ended and I find myself in my cell, I realize and. know that my only com- pany is loneliness. Some men are fortunate to be less lonely than others because they have people; friends, relatives and so forth, writing to them, When the guard passes out the mail in the evenings, I can see the jpy an<l .warmth waSh over their faces as they unfold their letters and begin to re~d the words that · somoone on the outside has written just for them. Tbose few ()f us who receive no mail.make a few jokes in a futile attempt to ignore those lucky guys reading their letters. ' · A.nd so, to combat this loneliness; I h.ave decided to write you this letter requesting that, if you cou!d please..print it in your student paper, hopefully someone will read ,it and be promptect to .send. me a few cheerful words from the out- side. A little -ray of sunshine. I have never written a total stranger before, but I am looking .forward to the chance. I myself have attended some college, earning 72 credits. I sincerely hppe that I will receive a letter fmm someone that cares. Thank you very much for your help and understanding. It .is extremely and deeply ap- preciated . Sincerely, John 0. Mendez, Jr. Attitudes Dear Editors: It has recently come to the attention of the Student Life Committee that a potentially ctangerollS situation exists at Union in regard to student at- titudes toward fire alarms. Despite tile fact that within the past ~wo weeks· there hav~ been . two fires on Ca.JUpus, students continue to ignore any all alai\IIls; choosing in$tead to depend on their RA's to warn· them of impending danger. . Clearly, an. overwhelming: reason · why .students are· reluctant to respondto an alarm. is the high incidence of false alarms. However, despi:te popular o])lnion. the majortty of false· alanhs are· not attributed 'to system malfunctioning, but rather are tbe result of sen- seless behavil>( on the part of a~ number of students .. ·• By decreasillg confidence in the\ · ability of the system, such· behavior puts ·everyone's life in danger. It should.,also be pointed out, in .refereru:e to the fire in Fox on October 6th that had it been any other Friday evening, the RA's would not have been there to · h81ldle the situation. It is noUh · respon$ibility o, the RA to try to controlthE fire and at the same · time., cor1vince- each individual on the floor to leave the building. lt is not unreasonable to ask c~llege students to act responsibly unoer such cir-. cumstaneEs. A recent Concordy editorial (9·Z8~78) expressed the hope that members of the College community would \take more seriously th~ dangers of fire .'' These events show that this has not been the case, and that the loss (){ Lenny Zelasko has apparentl 1 y · been ·without· meaning~ TarynMerz. Student Life Committee Presidential Search I . by ANDY MacENTEE The search for a new president of Union College is being conducted jn two stages. First, the presidential se,rch committee comprised of thir- teen-members including Dean of Faculty Paula P. Brownlee, four members of the faculty, two students, four trusteeS, one representative of the alumni, and chaired by Provost Hun- tley, will screen all the ap- pUcants. ' selection committee. Prospective candidates are expected to possess certain · qualities and characteristics such as 1 having a strong background in undergraduate education. being a competent scholar and haying ad- ministrative, financial, and fund-raising expe.tience .. Finally, he should possess presence. He should be able to exemplify throug~ hi~ speech and actions Union's traditions. Provost Huntley · explained that age an.:( sex woul,d not play a role in the choice of the new president. \However he noted, \the committee is not expected to choose someone nearing retirement.'' The committee hopes to begin · asking prospective candidates to Union by Dece:rnber and will \ continue to d~ so through March. .At the same time, committee members will visit 1 the schools of. the prospective candidates to talk with :st11dents, faculty; and ad- ministraoors of that school and gain a better· understanding of the person· .to judge his com- petency. Needless to say, the choosing of a new president will play an important and critical role in determining the course of Union's future. It is only througb strong, capable and ,; sincere leadership that Union will be able- to continue to excel in providing students with a solid undergr~duate education, Provost Huntley said. Then, the names of those candidates that the committee feels to be .. first rate\ will be submitted to· the presidential selection committee. comprised of trustees of the College. It is · this committee that will make the final decision regarding the choice of a new president. - Provost . Huntley noted that the presidential search com- mittee has retained the services of a professional. The names of any prospective candidates are sent to ·him and he assembles and compiles a dossier on that person. This information is then sent back to the committee where it is - reyiewed and evaluated. Senate Agenda Presently. the presidential search committee is divided into two teams ·in 'order to ac- commodate the reivew of the many applications. Any ap- plicant who is . thought ~o be qualified by one team Wl~ be reviewed by. th~. full comnutte~ before his name is sent on to the Among ~-the. items. on the agenda for the .All-College Senate's first meeting of this academic year next Thursday, Oct. 26, is ,the following that: · \The Student Forum proposes that the All College Senate is in favor of appointing .one, and preferably two, students to each of, the . self- . study drafting committees which were esta bUshed to prepare .for the . Middle States Commission on Institutions of Higher. Education re- accreditation examjnation. The All College Senate urges each ·.chairperson. on -these . drafting committees to appoint these students ~xpeditiously. ' ''The student committee on committees stands ready- to - assist if chairpersons feel they need such assistance. •' . In citin.g the . rationale on the agenda :fo.r this action, the forum nded that \such ap- pointme!lts would be consistent withtbeintentions of the Middle States Commission and the recommendations of the Hazzard Eeport .\ It added that student . participation on the drafting committees- is ~'crucial.\ -- Col Ge byJ andLAU An al'most· of advance· limited the « Appreciation of Oct.. 5 oil J handful; Df.linpened the Union played a beginning sh Theil- .per followed by done by two Gary ~.Glaube Before the U held a recor< \We just di to pubJlcize t1 Zolner, dirt development, the City o Bureau of PI arrangement: Zolner add~ sure until M before~\ wh' members o bureau, that 1 staged. \By that tii to informstuc and .fraterni presidents to The_ day's derway in th farmer's - ma merchants so produce. ''It went Tichacek Qf tt while brows: Open Door at of the stores 1 that evening. so many peo~ Bill Kelly Graduate, no the plaqgjpg that almost l the market, staged, week] good portion College stude Evening a< place on Jay closed to v throughout til While the played, Kell~ dividual peo) good time. Br and see that many people. Despite th semble,.. dir Berkowitz,· aroused the and, before it worked it to . The secoric Day's eveniJ featured the Gary Glaut guitar and R~ Despite the and cold, da pair delighted Glauber's ori Opening ' Change,'' the defeated by lE conditions an an enjoyable Sharing t harmonies, til and delivery termed as highly musicc: included .. Do1 \Where .My l Of Those 1 nwnber of c tertaining piE Theever-pc brought the c ParUcipaUoJ clapping alon \The qualit great,\ said LOS'f-One writing that Line Pack Longtneado~ Karen, 346· formation. information.

- OONOQBDIENSI'S, October 19. J918 .. Col leg~ :oay - . - - G·ets Rained On ·- byJIMDAVIS and LAURA MASAILO An alkwst-cornplete absence of advance notice o.n campus limited the crowd at 1 'CoUege Appreciation Day\ the evening.· of Oct.. 5 on Jay Street to only a handfuL ·, - another member of the planning bureau. '~We've just got to get better publicity. •·• _ He added that plans .for next year's ·College Appre.ciation Day celebration wnl start to be made in about a month. · \This is a .good idea,\ said 'Page 3 Dampened by periods of r::lin, the Union J·azz Ensemble played a 45-minute $et, beginning shortly after 7 p.r:n. Their .performance was. followed by a folk music act done by two College students, Gary -_Glauber J![ld Rob ,Jmrie. Before the live music, WRUC held a .record hop. . Z_olner, who. will pr9~ably again ~ act as Un1on's lia1son. \It's what 1s needed. to se~ a standard ' : for good relat1onsh1ps between i. the out~jde comm11Jlity a~d Union!' UJE,ledby Fred Berkowit.zon.trumpet,wati at Col.lege Day fesivities on Jay St. . ' . --- \We just didn't haye the time to publicize the event,'' said Joe Zolner, director -of student development, who worked with the City of Schenectady's Bureau of Plarmlng in making arrangements for the day.'-=- Breathing Life into Downtown Sch'dy Zolner added that he \wasn'.t sure until Monday-three days before~;· when he n'let with members of the planning bureau, that the event would be staged. - \By that time, all we could do _ to inform students was ask RA's and fraternity and sorority presidents to post notices.\ The _ day's events got un- derway in the morning with a farmer's -market where local merchants sold fresh fruit and produce. . ''It went well,\ said Ken Tichacekofthe-planning bureau while browsing through The Open Door at 136 Jay.Street, one of the stores that was open late that evening. ''r'v.e never seen so many people on Jay Street.'' Bill Kelly, a 1978 U.nion Graduate, now an employee of. the plarmjpg. bureau, estimated that lfunost 800 people visited the market, which has been staged weekly since July .. \A good portlon' of them were College students,\ he said. _ Evening activities also took place on Jay Street, which was closed to vehicular traffic throughoutthe day. byDOUG RGSENFELD ·,proved informative. Tire most advanced of these Some call downtown ;proj.ects is the Wallace . Schen e,ctady decrepit. . Project.Loeate.d at the corners Schenectadians call it, with-~- of Jay and State streets, this varying degrees of warmt~. ~ project entails the construction home. 'those . who ca~1d of a city owned and operated calling it at all usually do. civic center. The center is But it is· the creative and designed to have a year;round critical Union College stude!lt public skating facility and will -:who lambiists the city; 'most be convertible to an auditorium unmercifully. After ~11, (or multi-purpose use. . gener-ations of students have Although the center can host passed through Union~ so much \conventions sporting events, has been s·aid. And Union is a and a variety of civic func- traditional schpol; what has tions,\ it will not, due to its poor been said has_, in large part, acoustic qualities, serye as a been stored. concert hall. The end result; many trunks · It is hoped that the renovation full ofSchenectady slurs and, in of the Proctors Theatre across the narnecalling, a continuing the street will · remedy this source of student recreation. shortcoming. In tts designing But we may --soon lose. this approach the Wallace Project source.of recreation: The Ctt y of reflects an· attempt by the Schenectady's ~nownt.own planners to build anew while ~Development ~rogram, a~ed- maintaining a healthy regard . at revitalizing the downtown for the city's historic ar- • area, is moving forcefully chitecture. _ ahead. . .: , . · The Wallace facility has A number of building projects· retained the facades .of two of :,cOristitllte this program. Among the three building that them are the \Wallace previously stooct upon the site. Project,'' the ''400 Block The Wallace's building will be Project.\ and the \Arts Centre restored in itS entirety and the and Theatre Project.\ Grant's building partially; only A tour of these building sites, the Kresge builffi.ng has been provided by Ken Tichacek of the completely dem~h~hed. city's Bu.reau of Planning, These three bu!!dings became city property abOut four years ago when the stores closed and the · city foreclosed on their taxes. Possession of the building site, although it is helpful, does not fund such an undertaking. Primarily, fun-;Ii:ng of _the project is federal, aUoted to Schenectady as one of ''322 distressed cities\ by the Economic Developm.e nt Administration (EDA). Priv:ate investment is funding an· ad- joining section of the facility that will provide space for office and retail purposes. The 1 plan is to create a shopping man at· mosphere in the facility. H . is projected .that the Wallace facilty will open its doors in September 1979, but the finishing touches on the project will .probably still be In progress at that time. The ''Wallace Project\ is just one part of a retail area 'revitalization project that is attemptin£ to concentrate the city's ret(lil action within~ four block stretch along State Street. The \400 Block Project\ is another. Prop.erty owners on the block directly across State Street from the Wallace Project have incorporated to initiate the redevelopment of the entire _block into a major retail center. While the jazz ensemble played, Kelly noted that \in- dividual people are having a . good time. But you, look aroJmd and see that there aren't too many people.\ Murphy Lectures On Yeates Despite the rain, the en- semble,_. directed by Fred Berkowitz, a senior here, aroused the crowd's emotions and, before it was finished, had worked it to a lever .P~tch .. · by SUSAN BARNHART \ ''The Making of a Biography,'' a lecture by Englisbc Ptofessor William M. Murphy discussing the · development · of Jlis 'book, · Prodigal Father, served as a kickoff fQr th~ past weekend's Homecoming events~ Talking to a capacity crowd i~ Strauss ·Lounge, Professor · The secorid half of Gollege Day's ev·ening entertainment featured the talented duo of Gary Glauber on acoustic guitar and RQb ·Imrie on bass. Despite the dwindling crowd and cold, damp weather, .the pair delighted the audience with Glaube~-'s original music·. '- ~Murphy described the 'events which led up :ro his decision to write a boOk about John Butler · Yeates,ife described his interest . ln . writing a . bo6k,; while Opening with \Make the Change,'' the two wete not to be . defeated by less than conducive~ conditions and set the: tone for an enjoyable hour.· Sharing the vocals and _ harmonies, they displayed styl~ - and delivery that can only be termed as professional and highlymusical. Other selections included ''Donna Be My Love,\ \Where MY Heart Lies,!' \One Of Those Things,\ and a nwnber of othr, .equally ·en- tertaining pieces. . The ever~popular ·\Moo'' song brought the crowd to its feet in Parti-cipation, singing and clapping along. ''The quality of the music was great,\ said Wayne Hazard, LOS'f-One blue jacket with w~iting that says \Al~' \City Lme Package Store, East Longmeadow.\ Please contact Karen,. 346-1357 with .any m- ~ormatlon. Will pay for the Information. discussing his invQlvernent in · civic affatrsthat led to his later · ·appointment to the housing · authority. . During· his tenure with the housing authority, he ·became acquaJated with a woman who was a close friend of John Butler Yeates. As their friend\ ship grew, Professor Murphy described the woman's. growing interest in some day writing a book about Yeates. · -As time passed, pr,ofessor Murphy foUnd it was he who would author the book. . It wasn't until 1958 that he began_ to . con~ide.r the possiblllty. When h1S fu:st two chosen subj~cts for books were no longer under his con- sideration since other works on the same topics had been writtell, he turned to writing a biography on Yeates. Initial steps in the project did not begin until 1966. - After reViewing the material given. \lim by . Mrs .. Je~n Forrester, the close acquam- tance of John Butler Yeates and his friend from the housing authority, it was decided that more extensive · research was ne_eded. Professor Murphy, acc.ompanied by his wife, went to Ireland in the ~pring of 1966 to begin research on Yeates' life. · . After a .fruitless attempt . to get inform-ation from Mrs. William Butler- Yeates, daughter-in-law of .John Butler Yeates; Professor Murphy was aple to · contact her son, Michael. · He was eager to help obtain material about his grandfather and contacted his mother about providing material. By the· time the Murphys had returned to America,. they had collected more than one million words of material for the biography. Because much of Yeates' work was illegible, Professor Murp~ spent much of his spare time during ~he next two years deciphering. the material given hint. In 1968, he decided to go back. to lreland to do additional resear~h. Shortly after his return to Ireland, Mrs. William Butler Yeates died and additiQnal material was found. Thi-s material, along with additional material from Mrs. Forrester covered a period prior to 1928, closing a gap in the material · needed to finish the · book. Professor Murphy returned home in 1968 with more than two million words of material and spent the ne:tt three years deciphering it for his book. He contracted a publisher for the book and spent the years from 1970 to 1975 drafting and revising his book. Ho-wever, his original publish~r backed out of tfle agreement. Professor -Murphy found himself without a publisher and faced with self- doubts about the worth of his book. - These doubts disappeared · whenJhe book was accepted by Cornell University Press and was scheduled for publication in June, 1978. The final copy of Prodigal Father was 'submitted to the publisher in Oct.,. 197ft, and Professor Murphy was left with his .task of compiling an index. Prodigal Father was published on ·June 25 and has received excellent reviews from literary critics. ·Professor Murphy believes he owes his success to hard work, help from others, $id, above all, luck. Without this luck, he leels, the task ot writing such a book would be almost iJn. pOssible. Existing stores are being refurbished, and new facilities and a pedestrian arcade are to be added. - Funding of the \400 Block Projed:\ is mostly private; with some federal and city funding. An integral.part of this cote retail area development is the renovation of the Proctors Theatre-the \Arts Center and Theatre Project.\ The city has turned the theatre, obtained by tax foreclosure, over to a non- profit corporation responsible for repairs. Funding for this · project .is lacking, however, and so is so progress is slow. With ex()r- bitant repair costs-$1.6 minion- -no federal aid, and limited <:ity funding capability, the project relies upon_ a current fund- raising drive for its completion. No opening dates are offered for this project. These three projects are tbe principle in tne doWntown retail area development program. Of the three, only the Wallac~ Project is far into the con• struction pha:;e. Planpers hope that the eventual success of the center will, in· conjuction with many supporting programs, breathe new life into a dying downtown district. It is hoped that the success .of the center will operate on private investment with a multiplier effect, and in that way spur further growtb. The plans. are ambitious and the planners well-intentioned. Success in the downtown program could benefit Union College by offering to the students a city from which it would not so readily divorce itself. Concordy Needs You :If you wont to be a Cartoonisf Satirist Writer ·Photographer Film Critic Music Critic Contact the editors today 370-6155

' Page 4 OONOOR,DIEN8IB, October 19, 1978 Dirndle Days Approach Hey i=red, can you p.lay one Qf these ? Lake Placid's 6th Annual Oktoberf.est scheduled for . October 28 & 29, 1978 promises to end a spectacular fall season with an even more spectacular grand finale! · In cosponsorship with the Joseph Schlitz Brewing Com- pany, the 'Chamber of Com- merce hosts this annual event to provide a family fun :time befarethe winter season sets in. It is also simHar to ·a homecoming, in that many college students front the area gather .here thus offering a Chance for all college students to make new acquaintances at other CQlleg~s. . On Saturday, October 28th the doors will open at 1 p.m. From 1 p.m. to 4 p.m. admission to the event will ·be :$1.00 per person (children under 12 years af age with their parents will be ad- mitted free~) After 4 p.m. on Saturday, the admission will be $2.50 per person. If you ·arrive before 4 p.m. on Saturday and intend. to .stay for the entire evening's fun you may plJJ'chase a $2.50 ticket. On · SWlday, October 29th the 'fest' will run from noon till 9 p.m. and the admission will be $1.()() per person. -DURYEA-·- ~-CAREY----- - PubHc Interest News Service Republican gubernatorial candidate Perry B. Duryea told a group of student leaders in New York City that he favored opening up the Tuition Assistance Program (TAP) to part .. time students, increasing student representation on higher education decision- making bodies, and main- taining the independence .of the · City University of New York (CUNY). But Duryea also told the students ''it is doubtful\ that as governor he would be able to bring back free tuition, which was eliminated at CUNY in 1976. And he told them that the present balance of funding for private and public institutions- which places New York at the top of the list for state funding of· private higher education-was an \equitable balance ... one (that) can be maintained.\ During his meeting with the University Student Senate-the CUNY-wide student governing body-Duryea said flatly, \Part- time students will be made eligible for financial aid from the state if I am elected governor.\ · Duryea added, \I support a new . and expanded com- mittmen:t to part-time students. For those part-time students in need and for those individuals who may be denied access to part-time status due to fin{Ulcial considerations, a program of tuition assistance should be developed.\ On the subject of CUNY- SUNY merger-an anathema to most student leaders in both ·systems-Duryea was equally forceful. \I believed in the in- dependence of cUNY and I still do;• he said. \I will fight for the independence of CUNY.\ That independence includes freedom from total funding by the state as well. \Someday following that (100 percent state funding) . · . . you're going to run the risk o! losing the ide,ntity of CUNY,'' he said. ''There' is city par- ticipation ·. • . that sho~ be maintained.\ · · The state now provides 75 percent of the funds for · the CUNY senior colleges with the city picking up the remaining25 percent. \With that state money comes a degree of control,\ Duryea told the. students .. But, he added, ''simpli:fy · the process\ and \minimize state interference\ in the Wtiver- sity's affairs. Duryea said he believed the state has struck an \equitable Public InterestNewsService balance\ in its funding of public Part-time students-currently and private higher education. denied fUilds from the State \I don't think one phase is Tuition Assistance Program being supporfed to ttte (TAP-and the long l>ele.aguered detriment of the other., City University of New York At the same time, he said he . (CUNY), both received en- could not foresee tuition com·aging wonls from Gov. reductions at the public Hugh L. Carey. universities. \I lean toward$ making it · '~If Jhere is a tuition in place, easier for those who can only the way to offset that tuition is afford (to attend) part-time- through assistance programs because they bave other· em- ( so that) the impact in tuition on ployment-getting the benefits those who can ill afford to pay of education,\ said Carey. can be wiped out:\ \That student, part-time, after At the meeting, Duryea also all, is making a contribution· in advanced a proposal to create a terms of tax dollars while going Student Advisory Council to the · to school.\ Board of Regents. As planned, Asked if he would introduce the council would include specific legislation to extend. student representatives from TAP benefits to part-time SUNY, CUNY, the conimunity students, Carey said, \I'd like colleges and the independent the support of tlle CUNY -8UNY colleges. people and the (Board of) The candidate also claimed Regents . . . but my inclination he would \go as far as is is towards recognizing the fact humanly possible\ to increase that it's a heavier burden now student involvement on ·other on the so-called part-time city and state governing bodies student.\ that influence the future of Part-time and other non- higher education such as the · traditional students have State Dormitory Authority and \asstimed greater prominence in New York City's Emergency higher education debates Financial Control Board. recently, as un}versity officials During the campaign, Duryea look for ways to combat the has also made a group of decline in \tr!lditional\ ap- proposals aimed at keeping the plicants. Last fall, CUNY state's higher education in· enrolled 53o701 part-time un~ stitutions as a resource far dergraduate students and New solving state problems. He has York's independent colleges proposed establishing \an enrolled over 64,000 part-timers extension service to small for the same period. business and industry similar to Preliminary figures forth~~ fall the Cornell Agricultural indicate SUNY will enroll 44,000 Extension Service.\ part-time stud·ents at its Further, he'd like to see colleges and universities. · university, business and But TAP benefits are not government officials JOin. · available to students takihg less together in \Regional~ Strike' than 12 credits per semester. Forces\ that \will attempt CUNY 1 s City University through outreach programs to · . Assistance Program, which retain business in their provided aid to part-timers regions.\ He'd also like to see after the imPQsition of tuition, university personnel help was eliminated lasts\I!lllller by develop marketing strategies the sharp funding cuts that hit for the. different regions of the the system. state. Carey said the Regents wer-e The .Assembly Minority looking at the issue o£ TAP aid Leader also had this to say for part•timers as part of an about issues of Particular in- overall study being conducted terest to students: , \on proper funding for -The growing reliance on education.\ And, be said, ·he standardized tests (such as the would still consider introtlucing SATs and LSATs) for selection TAP for part-timers legislation and assessment purposes has even if the' Regents come out created \a substantial industry against the proposal. comprised of relatively few On other higher education firms, Whie,h · are largely topics, Carer said CUNY should unregulated,'' remain independent of the State For this reason, \I opposed University. \(It should ·be) the current administration's equal in excellence to the State elimination of tbe Regents University, but autonomous, not College Scholarship merged; because the City Examination and (its) Unhrersity has a special Continued on page 15 mission:\ Speculation about a change in the relationship between the system has grown over the past fev, months with the CUNY governing body-The Board of Higher Education-legislatiVely scheduled to go out of business on June 30, 1979, and the city's financial sjtuati.on remaining unsettled. In March, 1977, Carey's \Temporary Commission on the Future of Postsecondary Education\ -~th.e' so-called Wessell Commission-recom- mended parity funding and · merger of CUNY and SUNY into a new two-tiered system. \As far as they went in terms of going toward parity on a phase basis, parity of funding between CUNY and SUNY, W essen was all right. As far as suggesting merger and the loss of autonomy of· the City University-no,\ Carey said. \We have to upgrade the quality of the (CUNY) senior colleges which has been declining,\ Carey continUed. \We have to make sure there is a guarantee of excellence in the Senior University.\ Carey also announced his support for regulation of the Educational Testing Service and other organizations which administer standardized tests such as the SAT and LSAT. \Yes (I favor' regulation) because we're a victim of it,'' he sai9. \My children and I have gone through all these testing panels and they misled me in. terms of giving me readings of my own children, and they didn~t test me through the proficiency Uhougbt I had.'' A \Truth-in-;I'esting\ bill that would force the companies to send each student a detailed explanation of what the test measures, how to interpret its results, and how schools use the test, was introduced in both the State Senate and Assembly last year, but did not veach the floor in· either ho\i.Se. On other iSsues. of interest to students, Carey said: · -he opposes the passage of a bottle bill law in New York. \I oppose it because one of.the major probiems in New York is protection of our water supply . .. so those who are ·pushing a bottle bill will have to satisfy me as to what you're going to do 'Withtheeffluent, with the bottle wash and no one is ready to answer that.\ -a medical S(!bool will be opened in Queens County. \Queens County will have a medical . program l-eading Continued· on page 15 The Stratton Mountain Boys and the Hofbrau Stx; are in charge of the music and dan- dng. Ran Butler. and his t11ernendously capable crew will be on hand to provide the ever popular d.::Hcious authentic German foods-wm·sts ·of aU ·kinds With German Potato Salad, sauerkraut and spicy red cab~age ... an of these goodies complimenting the cool and refreshing beer, wines and soft drinks. Ursla Reidl, chairman of the decorating committee, is already hard at work planning arid making tbe always spec- tacular decorations, and NCISS (North Country Investigations and Security Services} Will. be at the_ Oktoberfest to maintain order and J?rovidethe necessary security for such a 'people- . packed' event; The_assortinent of dO.or. prizes will be the ,grandest · possible-so · says Bernie Adler,. chairman of the door prize. committee. · Booth ·space for clubs and organizations. is still available at no cost. The Rotarians will be there with their ever popular cott<>n candy machine and there will be fun games* of chance, a glassblower and many ·other. surprises. , - For the sport::; minded .'the annual Oktoberfest Soccer Tournament will agaip take place under the direction of Horst Weber. Teams will vie for tbe coveted \Chamber Pot\ award. . Get out your dirndle and leiderhosen and· .plan to attend the 6th Annual Lake Placid Oktoberfest on October 28 & 29 .at the Olympic Arena. Sports Med Program Union College's athletic department has instituted a new sports medicine program for its intercollegiate athletics. Dr. Carl Paulsen, Schenec- tady orthopedic surgeon will coordinate. the program which will utilize the talents .of Dr. Paulsen and his orthopedic group, the training staff at the College and the new training facilities. Union · Athletic Director Richard Sakata said the pr-ogram will provide improved medical treatment for the c·ouege' s athletes. Head Trainer Anthony Ortolano and assistant Beth Ayn Deutsch have moved to new training facilities in Achilles Rink. The new quarters are not only larger than the previous office in Alwnni Gym, bU:t as Ortolano notes, \We're ~lso close to the dr~ssing rooms of most of the contact sports: football, ice ho-ckey, lacrosse and field hockey, all of which use locker rooms in Achilles Rink.'' Dr. Paulsen and his or- thopedic group, consistit1g of Dr. Patrick Albano and Dr. Robert Cooley will cover all home· varsity football and hockey games. They will also ser-ve as the college\'s physicians for all orthopedic _ injuries, Physicals for athletes will be give.n nine times per year while the team physician will also ma}ce training room visits aqd be .available for consultation and· teferi'al for non-orthopediq injuries. . Sakala said, ''We;re fortunate to have Dr. Paulsen take an active interest in -:the . development of our sports medicine program.\ R< byLY ''We ta .sonal seriOus.y. \Classe personal.' These c by Doc Chairman Sciences l COilege.T the Biolo evident in At the Biology I largest e1 Union Coli 300 studE considere( efforts ari classes as Nomajo 'in the B curriculul school ye~ explained, very stron be better.\ has been and som· rectified. Doctor students w majors. In out .of th~ students 1 careful v course pl~ cerned th students r Union wi1 taken any Many of pre-med S1 Ba byJt Robert phisophy speech thi ternoon ab medical d tinue life 01 in short, euthanasia The spee1 series of s by the phil A major ture was concepts st ''allowing althoug)J tt laymen,- c< Professor J ·1~~ ph a cente1 with

... i- ~ OONOORDIENS18, October 19, itn8 Roth Plugs Union Bio by LYNN GREENBERG ''We take advising and per- .sonal association very serilim;ly.'' · \Classes are kept small and personal.\ . These comm.ents •were made by Doctor Willard Roth, . Chairman of the Biological Sciences Department at Union COllege. The ;personal .aspects of the Biology Departinent are evident in- many areas. At the. .present time, the.., Biology Department hall the largest enrollment ()f any at Union College. There are about 300 students wh() ·are now considered Biology majors. All efforts are made to keep the classes as small as pcssible. No major changes were made majors. Doctor Roth is the chief advisor · of~ the Health Professions Association. This committee meets with each of the pre-med students. Myth has it that this committee decides who receives recommendations to medical school: According to Doctor Roth, \Under no circumstances will I refuse to recop~rnend someone. l may advise a' student that they have no realistic chances of being admitted .to medical school though.\ _ Many students also believe that the beginning Biology courses are meant to weed out ·many prospective Biology majors. ''We definately don't want this to happen.: We hope to do an effective job so that all students will do well and will want to C()ntinue. Unfortunately this doesn't always happer,\ says Hotn. · Union College has a course in which students can spend six hours a week for ten weeks at St. Clare's hospiifl. The course was established by Dr. Roth because many students who were interested in mediclne had never had the opportunity to know enough about it. He sought a way for students to find out what modern medicine :was all about. Union College has a courSe· in which students can spend six hOurs a week for ten weeks at .~ St. Clare's hospitaL The course E was estaolished by Dr . .Roth o ~cause many students who ~· were int~rested in medicine had CQotinued on page 15 · in the Blo:togy Department curriculum for the· 1'978~79 school year. As D«lctor Roth explatned, ''The curricalurn is very strong, but. it c~ always be better.\ Somelabequipment' has been improve<! this year and some shortages. were rectified. ' \ Morrison .·starts New Year at Achilles Doctor Roth warns stu,dents who are taclding \Split majors. In order to get the most out .of their education, these students must be extremely careful with advisers and course planning. He is con• cerned that. some of these students may graduate from Union without ever having taken any advanced work. Many of tbe Union College pre-med students are Biology by MITCHELL WOLIN 'Fo your sur:prise 1 this is not a survey of the ~ction in The Diad. . It is an enlightening discu.Ssion about the rrew director of the Achilles Rink, _ Charles Morrison, and his plans for Union College involvement with the Achilles Rink. As the rink director, Morrison .is also the head coach of the hockey team. Coach Morrison, oorn ·in Canada, graduated from Springfield College in 1960 with a .B.S. degree. He had played hockey with the ''Worcester Bak~r Speaks by JULIE ARNOLD and analyzed various moral Robert Baker, assistant phisophy prl)fessor, gave a speech this past Friday af- ternoon abQut his research on medical decisions to discon- tinue life or sustain treatlbent- in short, the dilemma of euthanasia or \mercy killing.\ ' approaches.and shoed how they can bring ·a- physician to dif- fering conclusjons about whether to terminate or con- tinue medical treatment. The speech was the first in a series of sppeeches sponsored by the philosophy department. A major purpose of the lec- ture was to clarify certain concepts such as \killing\ and \allowing deat:h, '' which, although they appear clear to laymen,- can be complicated~· He said that the -key to determinin-g whether mercy killing or the cessation of treatment is apporopriate is a legal act that ultimately rests on an in~ividual's ~oncept of his moral obligations artd the duties androle ottpe acting\physician. Professor Baker concluded his speech by . saying that the real question invo ·.ved concerns the ''moral principles a medical unit . operates . on and the sounclness of these priniples.\ Professor Baker presented • . PREPARe r=oA: · · · 1 ourha MC,t-. BAT •lSAT • GMII 1 :.~~~~ ORE • OCIT • Ill· SAT Flexible\ Programs & Hours· teherfi IS a differencetl! .. Albany Cent~r ~· ·. afj. . ... ·. -H . ·1~3 Delaw.ar~ Ave. . . . .,.. . . N' Delmar · ...,. P hone (SlS) 439 _ 8146 EOUCATIONA.LCE.IIIT.ER · · · TEST.PREPII.RATION · . SPECIALIStS SUii(';E 1938 Ou.tside N.'t, State Only CALL TOLUREE: 800·223·1782' Centers In f.lalor IJS•C£11es Toronto, Puerto 'Rico ~nd ~ugano, Switzerland . ~~Dutch~Ho:llow Pub ~ .· .... . ' Happy-Hour every_-TIJesday ~ ,riday 9:30-10:30 A.ll House Drin•s 50~· free ·popco~n 11 ' . . P M . 'M · · ·· tf .. ·~ F·REE ·aEE:R with every me«tl Friday & Saturday nights 5 :00;.&:00 . ' . . Tay _our l•ier ~eaks * 'Jcrny me11u .selec~ons to cltoos~ from -· Warriors,, who once played against the U.S. Olympic 'team. After college, he returned .to Canada as the director of the- Sussex High School Athletic program. He then went to Summerside, Prince Edward Island, where he was the director of the soccer program and of the hockey program, which was energetically bUilt up under his gUidance. ·For a time, he was at Albany Academy where he refereed college. hockey, and coached soccer~ hockey, and track and field, and · .subsequently returned to Suminerside as the assistant of the athletic department. His next major position was coaching varsity soccer and managing the rink at Mount Allison , University . in New Bru,nswick. The season he spent there resulted in a very successful record for both the soccer and hockey teams, with the soccer team playing in the Canadian Nationals, a \first\ for the University.. He then went to Lake Forest, Illinois, where he greatly expanded the hockey program. As far as Morrison is con• cerned, he is starting at Union from zero . When asked about the previous history of rink management and Union . hockey, he responded by saying, \I don't compare. myself to anyone. •·• He is deeply interested in developing all the facets. of the Achilles Rink, since \sucll a beautiful facility should be used to its fullest.\ Coach Morrison dtaws many comparisons between Union · MEN.U 12.\ Ch,ese Piuo .. ~ .............. $2.75 16\1:heese Piuo .................. $4.00 1'2\ Deluuo Combo ................. $4.55 16\Deluxe Combo ........ _ .. , ..•. , $6.40 12\ Work$,Pi&za ................... $5.45 16 · ~ Wotks~ P i&:&o ......... , ......... $7.60 ADDITIONAL ITEMS. ··For 12\ · - 4St Sausage· ' Pepptroni • Ham For 16'' • • 60t Onions Grsen Peppers ·Mushruam• •Ground Beef Th.ick Crusl and Mt. Allison University. He admires the students here,, saying, \The students here' know what they want ar)d they will get it · an excellent education.\ Like Mt. Allison, the people here are \serious students}' Nevertheless, Coach Morrison . loves sports, especially soccer, curling, track, baseball, and hockey. \I like to see everybody enjoy hoekey.\ He plans on having a strong intramJlral program, as well as a varsity team, so that ''everybody can participate at their own level.\ It is too early to say if there will be a J.V. team. \l'f people are dominating the intramural league, then we'll look at J. V.\ Morrison also has a strong interest .in curling, partially because the town he grew up in had a curling rink. ''I want to see curling go here.\ A schedul~ for the curling facilities is being set up in consultation With several administrators and students. Primary importance wlll be given to• Union College use, with community area use alos being given strong em- phasis. Morrison has contacted ''Canada Curl\ for curling instruction manuals to be distributed to interested students, along with which .he plans to hold \curling clinics.,. \Curling is a good social sport, and a good carry-over sport once you leave (college).\ It's the \same as golf and tennis\ in that sense. There are enough colleges in the area; Morrison . suggested that perhaps we could set up some kind of \curling l~ague.\ Morrison, as the head coach ·of the hockey team, has some fresh ideas. ''I hope I am a fair coach-that I try to do right for everybody. If people don't think I'rn fair, I hope they come in and tell me.\ As mentioned before, Morrison gives the main importance to scholastics. ''You're coming here for · academics first. If you make the hockey team, it is a bonus.\ He fe.els that \No academic exceptions should be allowed. You are here for an education.\ The varsityteam is in division 2, with an excellent schedule of 26 games, with two pre-season games on Nov. 4 and Nov. 11. The official season begins on November 17 with a home game against Elmira and ends February 28 with another home game against Colgate, one of the best teams in the league. The team began practicing October 16, from 4:30 p.m. to 6:30 .p.m. daily. There are . currently 35 candidates, with an expected team of 25 players. Morrison is generally keeping to the daily rink schedule that has been in effect in the past. It starts at 6:30 a.m. with Youth Hockey, and runs through a rather full day. In the rink is a bulliten board with all events posted; All members of the college community are en- couraged to consult it frequently. ln response to general student llSe, he said that just like all other rinks, ''there must be a prime time which is revenue raising. •} He hopes to se·e people take advantage of the skating f<icilities. · FREE DELIVERY WITHIN OUR DELIVERY AREA (30 111inute service) CALL 382~3838 · Also 10 minute take out . co .. nter Service OPEN DAILY 4 p.m.·. 1 a.m. Frl~ &. ·Sat. ' 4 p.m ... 2 a.m. ;,:----------- --_---~----·----~----, I , · 50c ' I I I I I I I I I I I I OFF ANY LARGE PIZZA · 1 coupon per pine Good ·now thru I I I I I October 22nd, 1978 i ~~---......-.-----\\\\:--~~---\'!---.\:------

\ i ' . 1978 ·A Receptive Ear by THOMAS PETERSON What would )'OU do if you had a personal problem that oftea had you feeling depressed or dejected, and did not have a 'dose or qualified enough person to wbom you felt you cauld confide? WeH, instead of writing to Dear Abbey, a better idea isto pay a visit to the Union College Counseling 'Center., located directly behind Smith House. r The Counseling Center, in- stituted in 19~3 by Provost Huntley, prevides free coun- seling service year round by qualified personnel. Director; Dr. Thomas Dowling, says \counseling is essentially a . patterns Of behavior. \ Serving as a counselor for seven years, Dr. Dowling has been able to evaluate the Center ·as a success anda \worthwhile e)!:perienc~e~'' though he states,. '·'I do not perceive myself as some expert armed with theory, techniques, .gimmicks, etc., with which I cure a person of some presumed illness.\ fie also maintaines that, \There is no general solutions for each individual problem.. :aasically, We try to help studentS learn their limitations and help tnem e$ta}?lish goals that ar:e right for them., A total of 248pintsof blood was don~ted at the Red Cross bloodmobile that took J>lace 'last Thursday and Friday at AlumnJ G:ym. This .figure was below the goal of 26Dpints the Red Cross had hoped to receive. but was still ·\really great\ in the words of Schertectady Red Cross director o.f blood services and public relations Alice Swanson. special relationship in which the student can confront his life _·more honestly, nurture new perspectives, and disengage from former self-dE;Jeating - Students . entering the Counseling Center are greete!i not only with a receptive ear, and p~Ofesstonal counseli:ng, they are also ensured of total confidentiality in discussing . tl}eir problems Parents a.re involved. only c.m the request of Circle K · ·lnternatioital Launches· Year the studnet. . . When asked if there was a poticeable ' peak period byDAVIDGOSS '· ''With this kind of en ... thusiasm, we can look forward to a year full of action and progress,\ remarked Andy Yuan, president of Union's Circle · K, which is the local branch of Circle K Inter- national;-In a recent interview with Concordy, Andy addressed the question, \Just what is Circle K and what is its func- tion?\ \Basically Circle K is a commuJ1ity service organization,'' Andy explained. Members review suggestions for service activites made by Circle K International and use these ~s a guideline for for- mulating project ideas of their own. Specific areas of concern involving health projects suggested by Circle K Inter- national include: the National Multiple Sclerosis Society; tbe March of Dimes and Birth Defects. Prevention Prqgrams; the Circle K Gift of Life Project (organ donor program); the Save-a-Life. Program on Hypertension (high blood pressure); and Blood. Drives. Depending upon how Circle K members at Union vote, one or . . PHC Sets Brown Cup Standards On Oct. 9 the Pan-Hellenic CoiUlcU met for thesed«md. time this year. There were 11 greek representatives- present. The · most important .item on the agenda was the new Brown Cup proposals. As there is no record of how the selection was made in the · past, the committee headed by Carmen. Saginario, vice president of the cowtcil, worked from scratch. The committee decided that the Brown Cup would be awarded on the basis of four categories. · The ~ first is .scholarShip-the overall grade- point average of the fraternity- which is determined by the Dean's office. · more of these projects may be : undertaken this year at Union. In addition; members suggest otber- projects, and these are then voted on . within the club. Locally, Circle K plans to help with on-campus activities such as Homecoming and in . the neigllboring community such as with the Day Care Center in Schenectady. Sponl!ored by the Schenec- tady Ki:w~nis Club, Circle K lloks to Kiwanis for support in certain joint-pro:jects tin.,. dertaken during tbe year and for references or contacts among business and community EARN OVER RIGHT . . leaders who may be able to · assist the dub. Besides its ·· volunteer and service activities, Cir~le K will be involv~d ·in many social activities .. Not only will there be social activities within the club at Union, ·but also iriterclubbing · . Continued on pagell- · .among student probl~rns, Dr. Dowling .. replied that traditionally tpe \Yinter term was when the Cou.ns~ling Center usually saw the most students. How~ver, more and more recentlY the volwne of students seeking guidance has in~ . creased.- Or .• Dowling at- . Continue~ on page 11 · · If you're a junior ·or a .senior m!ajoring in math, .. physics or: engineering, the Navy has a program you should know about. · It's called the Nuclear Propulsion Offic~r Candida~­ Collegiate Program (NUPOC-C for short) and if you qualify, you can earn as much as $650 a month right through your senior year. Then after 16 weeks of Officer Candidate School, you'll receive an additional year of advanced te~hnical education. This would cost you thousands in a civilian school, but in the Navy, we pay you. 1\.nd at the end of the year of training, you'll receive a $3,000 cash bonus. ·~ It isn't easy. There are fe~er th~ 400 openings and only tf} one of every six applicants will be selected. But if you make it,. you'll ha;ve. qualified for .an elite engineering trai~g program. With ~equaled hands-on respo~sibility,_ a $24,000 sruary in four yeats,, and gilt-edged qualifications for jobs in private industry should you decide to leave the Navy·· later.' (But we don't think you'll ~want to.) ..__ Ask your place~ent.officer to set up an interview with a Navy representative when he visits th~ campus on Nov. 2~3, __ or contact your Navy representative at 518-472-44.2~ {collect}. If you prefer, send your resume to the Navy Nuclear Officer ··Program, Code 312~B537, 4015 Wilson ~lvd., ~lington; The second category is in- tramurals. How well . an in- tramura1 team bas done is detennined by the intramural office. The tJUrd category is · fund raising. The winner in this .. category is ba~ on _)Vhich fraternity has tmsed the most money. Va. 22203, and a Navy represen.tative will contact you directly. The N_UPOC~Collegia~ Program.. It can do more than help~. youfimshcoiTege: it can leail to an exciting career opportunity. The last category t ex- tracurricular activities, is subdivided into foltr sections. These ar.e minor Activities, $1ich as librarian assistant, and Cabaret waiter; major Activities, such as varsity spor.t player; minor Leadership, such -IS' president .of chess club, and m.:.jor Leadership, sQch as captain. of a varSity sport, or editor of ConcoJ,\dlensfs. Nl.rY OFFICER.· IT'S NOT JUST AJOB, IT'S AN-ADVENTURE. - ' ..._ < • • ' • • •• • • •• • • • ·' by Tl of • gro1 Am1 worl heac ·purJ to ' priSI who trea TI ,grot Unij F \ 'l'h tbef Pres ll9Ull .pre~ Atla1 CollE of st been if .1 gove eetin in , reco prO VI gove that in go diSCI resu1 qnd.j to al studE Thl upda :aitel · Halt. the { no tee have Withi assw impr' · spac~ corte~ elude cam~ the t Loun: night ride displl front addit . ' gamE conm . avail~ Hall. 'Del wom1 mutE comb forth been Octot The-S into Rink utilb:1 ·· llllles: found comn possi conte: Rafte An conce Wintt Memc side.r, nounc forWi for thj loth. Mal meeti 7:30.t< · passej Ac StudeJ of th sched1 Octob .. Halel

OONCORJJIEN818, October 19, 1918 Page 7 Amnesty Illternational by FRANCIS RINDENELLO This .fall saw the organilation of .an Amnesty International group on Union's campus. Amnesty International is a worldwide organization with Us headquarters in London. · The ·purpose of this organization is to work for the release of prisoners in foreign . countries who are being imprisoned or treated inhumanely. There are six coordinating ,groups located throughout the United States, mai·n headquarters is in New York Clty. Beneath these six coor- dinating groups are a number of adoption groups, one of which is located in tlle Capital District. The Union College chapter is currently working along with the <;apital District group. The ·campus group had its beginnings last spring. It was then that Jim Anderson,. a junior, one of the founders of the a juhior, one of the founders of the Capitol District group, expressed an interest in the formation. of a campus chapter. At the same time, Kathy Sharlet, ''Amnesty lnh~rc national has been very suc- cessful so f~r in effecting the release of htmdreds of political prisoners.\ T-he Amnesty lnternation camptis group is sponsoring a movie entitled The Risiog Tide, which deals with the hwnan ~ rights situation in South Africa. ~ The movie is scheduled for Monday, OCt. 23., at 4:.30 p.m. in Memorial Chapel. J\nyone in .. terested in partici:pating ln Amnesty International is urged to attend a brief meeting that will ~· held at the end of the Forum Meets . Farrell, a junior, and senior, Charlotte Thomas began to develpp an interest irf Amnesty Internation. Professor Robert S. Sharlet, and these students - held the first meeting of Union College Chapter of Amnesty Internation on Oct. 3. movie. Professor Robert Sharlet of Political Science Department Union Fris.bee Club Formed by MICHAEL POLLOCK other areas of disc sp()rts later in the year. Ultimate Frisbee is played on a sixty yard field with thirty yard endzones. The object is to score points by catching the Frisbee in the endzone. The Frisbee progresses down field by passing from man to man among the seven players on a team. As soon as a player takes possession he must stop all movement and pass the Frisbee to a teammate. Any incomplete pass ·changes possession, The game con$ists of two twenty four minut~ halves. Union's first official in- tercollegiate games was played last weekend at Williams against a strong, establiShed team. Union lost 36 to 8. 'Ibe players are aU looking forward to next weekend's R.P.I. Invitational where they will get to compete with five or six other teams, including an exciting rematch with Williams. by STEVI11.KLlNGER 'l'be ·student Forum met for tbe fourth time on October 16th. President Steve Richards an- n~unced that. as part of Unio~'s .preparation for the Middle Atlantic States review of the Colleg~ a committee consisting of students and professors had been e·stablished to review and · If necessary change the governmental body of -Union. A ~etingwas h~ld on October 18th ~ in order to . get. student recommendations for im;. provenient on Union's ·present government. It must be noted that the Campus Trustees' role in governing the college was not discussed. The Committee.'s result$ will be presented at the ~nd of the Fall Term in order to allow plenty of time for student feedback. · The Forwn then received an updated treport ·,.on .. p11esenf :4fttempt'S , to qtJ.lize . Carnegie HaU.- Debbe ·Damrell, ··head .. ot. the College. Senate Colrimittee, ' · noted that several college clubs have b~en assign--ed rooms Within tl!e building :under the assumption lhaf lliey w1ll nnrke..,.. improvements· on thei\r allotted · space. Other plans discussed concerning Carnegie Hall in- cluded the following: an all · campus party to be held within the building, allowing Strauss Lounge to remain ·open an night; increasing the use·of the ride board; _adding mote di~play cases to the area in · f!lont of the Pub; apd finally the ad,dition of speakers . to the game room by W:RUC. . The cDnunittee hapes to utflize 8:11 available space in Carnegie ... ~all. -' '· 'l'he other members of the campus group are Brien O'Toole, Jon Schorr., · Gary Philipson, Francis Rindenello, Sue Portio, and Gary .Bowich. With Professor Sharlet as an ~dvisor, the group is working along with. the Capitol District adoption group f()r the release of three prisoners, a man in South Africa, a women in East Germany, ·and a man in Taiwan. According to .Professo:f BUI,D VOU_R\OWN ·. .······~··r;·.·. - - ' ' - I ', • Union Frisbee players have formed a new Fris.bee Club to play · intercollegiate and in• tramural Frisbee. The Club, now five weeks old, consists of more than twenty freshmen, who along with a handful of experienced upperclassmen, can be seen .practicing arotmd campus. · AB of now, the Frisbee Clt1b plays only Ultimate Frisbee on a competitive basis. 'lbey are planning on branching out into Anyone interested in joining can call Mike Pollock at 382-8366 or Drew Lianopaulis at 37~1575. The team is alway~ looking for enthusiastic new members. SCBBBN C0£0B 1'V Sporting Events Are An E~perience As Exciting As Being There! Movies Are Seen The Wqy They U'cre Meant To Be Seen! Pong And Other Video Games Are More Exiting Than Ever! Can Be Used With Video Tape Playback Equipment! Oe-bbie· Kaufman, . cbair-. · woman of the Social ~eom:. mitt,ee,. anno'u,nfeJl.tpe .;•UP~} . :'. : . cDmmg plans of Ulat collliiUttee , · , · ' . ~ . ·; : ~ • .... ~ .. ~ .. •b \ ~ h • • • ; Simuloted TV Reception for the College~ A ,pjgh~clu~}Jas been tentative)y schedule& lor · '.' ; ()cto~r· 27th ln AlUQlll.i -Gym •. ,. The SOcial Cottm,litteeJs looltlng ... · · . into possible . use of Achilles · . Rink for · tbe event · but utilb;ation ~ill .nQt be posaible lUlless a protective. covering is found for the ice~ In addition the . committee is al$0 con'sideripg; a . possiJ:>le · dance marathon· .. contest to take ' place at tlte. Rafters~ . . . , - An informal. BlueuGtass concert, to take place during the Winter Term in · the Nott · ~emorial. is. .. a~~ :betp,g,-, c9n- s1dered. · Ms. Kaufman- an .. · nounced thl,lt th!!'tentativ.e .~t~ for Wipter Carn~vcillias been set · for the weekend of Feb. 9th and loth. . .. · . ' . . . Mark Burnett moved that . meeti~g time be changed from 7:30-to lO.:OOp.m.Themotionwas ·passed. _. . A discussion of the Black Student Alliance will be a part of the .·next. For·tttp · ,meetipg scheduled 'to 'take~.; pla~e .. (In· . , Octob.er ·23fd at. ::10:00 ·p.m. in . Hale Hou,se LoiUlge. · _ lt\s·Like Hav.ing a 61 Movie Theater\ in Your Hoine! . ·· ,. .: :: . AMAZING $90.00,·PROJECTOlt KIT now anly $29.95 1in~gine h~Vitfne}.ri~n(J~ to. s~~ .rv · Sl>\~cials; ~ovies.. :spo!ts, an yo~r Theater; Size TV! ,It's like viewifig on a rhovie screen!. Eye~yt}!mg .takes on a ~hole new dimension ... alrrlost makes you feei like you 're\in the a-ction 1 Cah .also ·be_ ~~sea. 9utdoors; .con\rettirig y'd.ur back 'far~ :'nto :a~ open-air :Outdoo~. Theater!· This new inve~J~io~r· ~i,ve~.~arp lmlhant TV receptaon comparabJ~ to coplmet:ctal prOJector systems costmg $2,500 or more. Absolutely SAJi'E to use.·. No ·el~ct.r'ical or tnechanic:al c<>nllections to TV. Removes in seconds for regular size viewing. No special aerial requ1red;. ProJe~~s up· to _& .x 6 foot pictul'es (7~ Ft. d·iagonal) on w.U w sereen, even in the smallest.toon,s or apartf!lents. Best o·f all, this amazing Projector is really simple and inexpen$ive to build yourself. Even a 12-year old can do:. it. quickly. · Enclos~d Kit comes complete with unbreakable lifetime guaranteed Precision Lens System U\ x 17\ iUustrated Plans and Specifica~ions an·d EASY ASSEMBLY instru.ctions, All you supply is only som~ cardboard or wood for the simP.Ie cabinet. This Projecitor can be used with ANY Portable TV set T' to 25\ and will enlarge ·pictur.:;s in either Color or Black & White. If y()u w.ish, here's an easy way to make mo~ey in your s~aretime. Simplr a~semble .an'd sell these TV Projectors to your friends, neighbors; relatives, et.c .. Evezy_one wi~h a Television Set w.dl gl~tdly pay you up to $90.00 for each Projector you build. Make 9'P to $70.00 on ea~h easy saie. Your cost one ktt · $29.95; tw~ kits· $4.9.9~. five kits . $99.95. · · · ' -SALESMA~KETING Dept. N·R·7 P.O. ·Box 2646 · Merced, CalifOrnia· 95340 . •. ~ . Enclosed is $ __ .._..__......_ for ------ Postpaid complete TV PROJECT(>R KITS ... ·- \,- . N~me,~ .... ,, ... ,.., ... , .. Ai~i:~:·: .. T: ·~f .:·~± ~- ~:i ;: ::!- . ,, ::j; -~;.f :~~~~~ ); ~:;} ... '·. .·

Pages OONOORDIENS'IS, Octotler 19, ---.1918 Ape Goes Bananas by JIM DAVIS To viewers of \Magma Gorilla,\ it was a fantasy come true, on Oct. 6 a six-foot \ape\ appeared on campus and spent the . afternoon roaming. around~ Wearing a pair of sunglasses, the animal was as friendly as a fraternity brother rushing freshmen. \I can't get him _away from me,\ said: one student, as .he walked with'her outside of the Psychology Building.. \He even followed me into the library when I tried to study.'' To seek relief from the hairy . creature., she -exited to the RathskeUar, but was ac- companied there, too, \So I offered to buy him a beer,\ she said. But with that, the gorilla--apparentlY a teetotaler ... ref~d and left the premises. · At other tim.es~ he attracted considerable attention while walking through the. book store and Carnegie Hall. · There, he took advantage of an Urban League program that. allowed individuals to register for the upcoming general elections. . Signing the ap- propriate forms, be signed his name as \B.A. Boon.\ · Little else is known about the creature's identity. During __ his visit, he did not speak, but in a note the. animal said that ''I have learned a lot at union today. Now I can. write .. \ However, when questi·oned about whether he was Cofi;. sidering enrolling . in courses here, the ape made omin.ous Environs.: noises and struck this reporter. The following day, he made a return appearance--at the varsity football garne versus . . Colby. That night, the animal,.,. still ~porting his shade~-,gct a taste of College soCial life when. he visited a cocktail~disco party at Webster House. Still refusing a drink, he in- dicated that music, indeed, does soothe the savage beast. The gorilla boogied with a number of different partners, displaying many exotic dance steps, . ob- viously the latest rage in the jungle~ ~ An Offer You Can Refuse b.y LISA A. VOERMA'N and EILEEN L. KAN'l'ER proved to be a disappointment.· The portions were adequate .but nothing outstanding· for their cost. With-drinks priced at Fusion of Sound and Style If you are trying to soak up au about $1.50 apiece and extras; abundance of alcohol with some -such as garlic bread (an extra good, hearty Italian food; well, 75 cents), and tip, the basic all we can say is that Tlie Italian meal cost about $10,00 Godfather does have Italian per pel,'son. ' . food. Located in-- Clifton::.Park, The qtm.osphere js also not about, a 20 minute drive f.rom · worth paying extra for. While by DAN BOOTH ·On October· 4 the Moscow Chamber Orchestra performed to a large crowd in Memorial Chapel. With a style which was austere yet_ precis.e. Igor . Bezrodni, · Conductor . and Violonist, led the Moscow Chamber Orchestra in an im- pressive performance. The program began with two pieces by Johann Bach, the Concerto No. 2 in E Major and the Suite No. 2 in B Minor. Albert Ratz- baum played the Flute solo in the latter, Igor Bezrodni hi.tnself played the violin solo in the former. The orchestra remained- calm and comp()sed, a model of- tran.quility. After a short intermission, the orchestra returned to play two· melodies by Wolfgang Mozart- his Symphony No. 29 in A Major and Divertimento in D ·Major. Infinitely more lively than the Bach, the Mozart was played with far more vigor by the orchestra; the French Horns playing the accompaniment with near perfect pitch and the violins playing the melody with a dash of elegance: The_ striking performance inspired the audience, and two encores were played. The first of these was a rather con- temporary sounding piece called Two Preludes. Its sparkling quality ·struck that chord which makes a musician ' more than j~t a player of music. The orchestra sat a fragment forward~ and . Igor Bezrodni added a ·dash . of panache to his directing. It received a standing ovation. · The second encore was one , which featured· Albert R,atz- bawn .playing a Piccolo solo. The light bounc-iness of the piece ended the evening on a note of cheerfulness. . Uni9n, Tlle .. Godfather eating-· dinner, we imagined specializes in Italian-Americ,!ln . oursleves in a Jarge -banquet cuisine. The prices range. f:rom hall more suitable ·for a Bar $4.00for the-basic Italian dishes · Mit:a,va or a wedding; · such . as lasagna, . manicotti, : It wotJ].d .be unfair not to . _ linguine, etc., Jo $7 .. 95 for mention that The Godfather Scallops and Shrimp Par- does provide some great misain. If you want to sink your · nighttime. entertairtment. This teeth into a good piece of meat it past weekend they sponsored will cost about $10.00 ~$12.00 for The Platters, and the facility surf and turf). These dinners · can. certainly handle large are complete with a salad bar crowds. Their shows are . which would prove -dull even to something to keep an eye out Brier Rabbit. Needless to say, for. But, we found that as a the salad was anything but place for dining, The Godfather fresh, and was only garnished simply wa~ not-worth the price with tomatoes, cottage cheese _of the food. We suggest for a and macaroni salad. Expecting reasonably priced, hearty some good Italian home Italian meal, Union students cooking, our veal parmiagan should stick to Mother Ferro's. Paraquat: 'One Swa,llow Can ,Kill' , - by NEAL CABRAL \One swallow can kill\ reads the label on the herbicide paraquat. This, coup_led with the fact that there is no known antidote, completes the picture of paraquat as a lethal poison. Yet, despite paraquat's inherent toxicity, the U.S. Government, in all its wisdom, has given Mexico over 40 million dollars in direct funding in order that the Mexicans may continue spraying pot plants with the deadly defoliant. Although the actual effects of smoking paraquat pot are as yet unclear, it is certain that ~Y damages incurred by the smoker are quite irreparable, and if this Government's palicy of continued sQpport of the program is adhered to it looks like, \it's too bad\ for Americas 15 million pot smokerS. Though the natio1;1al outlook may be bleak, Union College, adrift in the surreal world of higher education, appears to be unaffected by the paraquat scare. Despite the fact that 60 percent of the pot in the U.S. is of Mexican origin (with ap- proximately 24 percent of that being paraquat~treated; a total of about 15 percent of the .pot in the U.S. is sprayed) most of the Mexican pot is smuggled into the country via the US-Mexican border. Subsequently it. is consumed in the Southwest, with the northeast relying more· heavily upon Columbia for their pot. In addition to this, it is reported th~t \Coluinbian\ is by far the most available pot in t}lP. Union College community, with Mexican making only rare apvearances. When asked how he dealt with the paraquat situation, one ·Union College student responded \I only buy Columbian. It's better pot and you don't have to worry about paraquat.\ While Union College students are not overly con~ cerned about the possibility of conswning ·such poisoned pot on ~ampus, marty are concerned about the present status of the spraying. program. Most, but not all students, favour the discontinuation· of herbicide use.· The State Department i~ the agency directly responsible for ftindiiig the program and, as is usual With any 1>f its projects, the affair· is fraught with political complications~ NORML initially assailed the prqgram bydemandingthat the State ·Department issue an Environmental lmp.act Statement,tbus ·airing .in court the ramifications of the her- bicide prograq1. Such impact statements are requisite under the National Envtronmental Policy Act (NEPA) for \major federal actions significantly affecting the quality . of the human environment.\ The State Department, in true form, immediately denied any responsibility for the .program as it is, under Mexican control, and refused to honor NORML's request. At this point, en- vironmentalists of all kinds jUJD.ped on the NOR.ML band* wagon in an effort to broaden the NEPA requirements for filing impact statements on U.S. supported programs. Thus the issue of contaminated pot has turned into an issue concerning the needs for wider use of iina pact statements. NORML 'feels the two issues shoUld . be kept separate rather than cloud the paraquat issue· with extraneous environmental politics. In addition, many en· vironmentalists are not willing to· pur.sue an issue which basically ''turns on\ ..the welfare of American Drug Abusers. Tbe State Department . agrees with this view, and one of its officials was quoted in the Washington Post as sayin~ .\~o who cares, what respollSlblltty does our government. have for dope smokers who might be poisoned by paraquat•:. T.o . further complicate thts;· It seems that the Mexican Government iS pleased· with the spraying operation,. and nlig~t · continue the· program even if_ U.S. support is with~awn. As if this miasma of govern- mental chaos was not enough, the State Department has also embarked on the \numbers\ game.· The Department claims that the amoWlt of Paraquat likely to be inhaled by a pot · smoker is virtually harmless. . However, a non-.profit research group called 'PHARMCHEM disputes the State Department's figures with resUlts of their, own tests on paraquat treated pot. Yet this montb an article ap- peared in RoUiJtg Stone ~.-.ga~ine disputing the findings of the PHARMCHE:M tests. In addition to tbis, . .NORML claims that the State Department bas overl()()ked the. fact' that some · pot users bake tbeir weed into brownies \1md eat. themJ thus presenting the risk .of digesting paraquat. Finally there is evidepee to sug·gest that paraquat in v~ry minute'd()ses. can cause birth defects. Therefore it wotit<l seem that · the present paraquat situation is lost in beaurocratic limbo, probably filed somewhere in between General Custer's Little Big Horn Scouting Report and President Nix:ons 1972 Income Tax Return. For the present, the U.S. has no intention of halting support of the spraying operations and even if it does there is no guarantee that Mexico will c()mply. So if dope ' is your thing it's either cold- turkeY or pot luck. Ed. N&te: St~bseqnent to the prbitlng of this article the United States Senate bas_aeted · on ·a biD to lilint the nse of · United States Funds _ for the · spraying ·of .marihuana . with paraquatin·M~Xico. It is,hoped that tlihi ·Will · become an un- printed ameli.dment iJlo. 1495, but there· is stiU no· further notice as fo the reaction of the Congress or the President. .. ::::..._ ; 1 • HQW TO USE ANALYSIS ANONYMOUS~: Carefully wrap the sample, prefera~y ~~equivalent of one dose (Paraquat analy- sis requires one tablespoon. ~f marijuana lea(material) in till foii~ place it in. an en-:eloj>e :with $5:00 per .sample (money order or cash) OR S8.00 per sample for a Paraquat analysis; and include a ratidom S-digit nunlber followed. ~y one or·tw9 letters of the alphabet. Piease inc~a~ information about the alleg,ed co~tent, street price.,~ligin ofsample(d.ty and state), anti !n~icate whetller .any undesirable side effects ar~ known. I( :r:ou ar~·send.mg more thart on.:- sample, wrap ~ch separately or mall m separate en- velopes. To obtain results, telephone tit!) Foundation (4~5 /322·9941) seven to ten days from receipt of sample and ask for test results using your number.Jeuer identifioation code. , To obtain quantitative information {data which tell~ the perce(ft or omou11t qf drug pmelit) on.SII/IIples !hown gr suspected to eolitain m~y Schedule fond/or Schedule II subJtance(s}, you must be registered with the !}rug E11/orcement Administration (DEA). · It II taece$$11r:J1 that you first contact us. ,Wt tlle11 will sertd you the required Df.\A lr_tmsfer fotm (BNQ Fori7!222C) which ullows.}'Ou to lffiiU legal mipment qnd the lab to fulfill tile qUilntitatiPe request, A remittance of $25.00 is required for a quatllatiait analysi1. ---~--~---~~~--~------~~~---~~-~-~~~-~~--~-~~~1 ID t1J: ____ __. __ Alleged Content I Street Pri~e S . . per Origin of Sample (City and SUite). ~ Sfde Effec•• I Standard Qualitative Analysis 0 ($5.00 per sample) I r o· , 1. I Herbicide Analysis - .. · . ($8,00 per sample) . $5.00 or S8,00cnclosed f~ each samp e. I ~~--~~~~-~-~----~~----~-~~~~~--~~---~-~~~~-~-~~-J byAl In COil waiter C. and CiVili art histod a. Picass< Friday ev the UoiQn ,Schenecta Thesho1 A SelecH contains 2i collections dating alx Schenecta1 print, 'dat owned by other 1>t:ii Johnson 1 University Knox Gall4 print$ will October .20 Included origin.al which will October 29 titled · '~Fe1 has never~t comes from City colle( wlth Folded Walter C. I Metropolita York City. \Four Fig1 Hyde Colle« These draw in which Pl rare and SJ Professor'\ Union Coil ment. Two from the i9: the 1920's. The show Professor B On~ With theh1 Fiji brothers Glens Falls Guiness wor one-inch cil benefited M1 Muscular I approximate be used it research. Amato, wh Pizzerias in . and Glens F $45,000 from this record-b1 The ingred used include< 664 gallons of of pizza saU< cheese, and pepperoni. The pizza: grill with Because of til the pizza wa: and was diffe words of son During the

OONCO:Rl)lENSIS, Octol1er 19, 19'18 Page 9 , P. i. casso Enters Union . . . . byALI~A SCQRAGIN In conjunction with the Walter C. Baker Lecture in Arts aiJ.d CiVilization to be glven by art historian, Dr. Leo Steinberg, a . Picasso . print . sbow opens Ftlday evening, October 20, at the Union Arts Gallery of tile ,Schenectady Musewn. · The show, entitled·, \~icasso: A Selection . of His Prints,.\ contains 25 prints frmn various c()llections. One of tne prints., dating about 1906, is from the Schen~ctady Musewn. Ar:totber print, dating about 1958, . is owned by Union COllege. The other -pd,nts come from the Johnson Musewn at Cornell University and tbe Albright- Kno:l( Gallery in Buffalo. These prints will be on display from October 20 to November 26. lncludedin the show are three original Picasso drawings which will be shown onlt tintil October 29. The drawing, en- titled '~Female Nude,!!- which has neved>een shown ptiblic.y, comes from a private New York City collection._ \Yotmg .Girl with Folded Hands,\ is from the Walter C. Baker bequest to tire· Metropolitan Museum in New York City. The third original, \Fow- Figures,\ is from the _ Hyde Collection in Glens Falls. These drawings are from an era in which Picasso draWings are rare and special, according to Professor Virginia Bush of the Union College Arts Depart- ment. Two of the drawings are from. the i91ors and one is from the 1920's. The show was put together by Professor Bush and by Rachael . Simons .• slide cur(ltor at Union. They also· compiled a. catalogue containing information about each of the works and in- formation. c·oncerniJJg Picasso's styles. Spanning a half century in Picasso's life; the show's works date from 1905 to 1958. They comprise ·a variety ·of themes includi~g; women, cl{issir;al stories, and politics~ The collection will exhibit the ·range· of Picasso;s styles and techniques with etchings, d.IY-_ point, and lithographs. Professor Bush has termed it ''the most ambitious show'' put on by Union College. 'Fhe Picasso exllibit opens with a receptio~ from 9;30 to 11 p.m., Friday evening, follow:ing the Walter C. .Baker Lecture. Leo Stelnberts talk, titled \Picasso Draws-.':Better than Raphael,' '' begins .at 8 p.m. in - Room .016.,of the SQcial Sciences building. Leo Steinberg's work 'stret- ches from the Renaissance to the modern era. He has worked· ex.ten~ively .. on . Pic~ss~, Michelangelo; and DaVmc1. Steinberg's ;particular approach to art history is the study into \the way artists :collll:r!Wlicate ideas thrq_ugh ~ gestlli'es and movements of tbe human body;'' according to Professor Bush. She (further .said that m~py other art historians tend to dealonly with documents and . forgetto 'look at the work of art. Steinberg brings out new levels of meaning from an, because. · he takes _time to look. \He has talent for bringing in anything to pelp the audience.\ , One Large Pizza? bv MARY CATHERINE REHDER With_ the help of about a dozen Fiji brothers, Lorenzo Amato of Glens Falls made an ·official Guiness wQtld record, 80-foot, one-inch circular pizza that benefited Muscular Dis.troppy. Muscular Distrophy netted approximately $5,000 that will be used in neurochemical research. Amato, who runs Leonardo's Pizzerias in Albany, Saratoga, and Glens Falls, accwnulated $45,000 from the production of this record;.breaking pizza. community benefit, a slice of pizza sold for $1, and a normal~ sized pizza for $5. As the day· progressed and the sales decreased, the price of the pizza also did. The leftovers were giv~n to a sc1ool lunch program. Amato had nwne.rous helpers- . -among them were a dozen brothers of Phi Gamma Delta. From 10 a.m.-·to 3 p;m the Fiji brothers assisted the cooking and serving of the pil;za and acted as security men. The ingredients that Amato - used included five tons of nour, 664 gallons of water,. 316 .gallons Billy Albrecht; a senior and a Fiji brother, organized the of pizza· sauce, 1320 pounds of cheese, and 1,200 pounds· of pepperoni. The pizza .was eooked cOver a grill with . propane . burners .. Because of this cooking method, the.pizza was uneveniy cook-ed, and was different tasting, in the words of some of the brothers. During the beginning of this · ft~ternityfs participation. He and, tbe · brothers decided to volunteer to improve com- mqpity and _campus relations. Billy said that the pizza wa$ \a sight to see,\ that it was a \good experience~\ and that' he ''hop-es everyone, and especially Fiji, can he•p the community,:· . Bl,lly Albrecht, a senior Fill brother who organized th~ frater- n.ty s involvement in making the record-breaklhg pizza. Steinberg's collection of publications will be on display inthelibrary. These works bear titles as interesting as himself and his :lectures. According to Professor Bush, Steinberg's lectures are very witty, often causing the audiences to laugh. She said that he \has a way -of saying things with the essenc~ -of wit, of .realization.\ On Friday evening, there will also be a reception in the music room of the library, whel\'e Mrs. Loi$ D. Baker, widow of Walter C. Baker, will be present. This reception will be on be.half of Mrs. Baker's donation of 100 art hiStlll'Y books trom the Walter C. Bake., library to the Scnaffer Library. 'Db..is addition will greatly enend the existing art hiStDry collection in the library. Professor Bush will say a .few words inhonor of Mrs. Baker at the reception. The books will also be available for browsing. 'I Profess01 Bush feels that the combination lecture and print Show will be one of the \more memorable events for the fidl.\ Picasso's-drawing \Female Nude,\ Which will be shown publicly for the first time on October 20 at the Union Arts Gallery of the Schenectady Museum. ·West -Tastes Area Pizza Re~ently the students living on tbe second floor of West College held a pizza tasting contesttocornpareand rank the various establishments that deliver to Union College. The results of this conte.st, twelve cut pizza contained a slightly thick crust and over 50 pieces of pepperoni. Rugby's pizza was unanimously voted the best pizza even though some students felt that it was a little too oily. whic.h was based on ap· The rem~rks concerning the pearance; cost, taste, and time, other pizzas are as follows: they .havE) agreed to share with . . . . . all ot}ler campus pizza-eaters. Our Ongmal P1zzena . . . . _delivered a \Sicilian\ type ~he eight e~abllshments who - pizza in 26 minutes. It was quite dehve,r to Umon, College_ are: thick and dry, but the pepperoni Carm s, Columbo s, Dominoes, was very good. This,_pizza cost Della. Villa, Little Vinnie's, $5.45. , Lou's Pizza Place, Our Original Pizzeria, and Rugby Pizzeria. Della ViJ.la was unable to be contacted on SUnday so it un- fortunately wasn't included in the contest as well as Little Vinnie\\S, who only deliver on Monday, Thursday, Friday and Saturday. The number one ranking pizza arrived in 20 minutes from the Rugby Pizzeria. An 8-cut pizza costs $4.00., twelve cut costs $4.65, and they also offer a twenty fQW' cut pizza. The The .pizza from Lou's Pizza Place was very similar to the one from Our Original Pizzeria, also costing $5.45. The sauce was sloppier and the crust was thought to be less dry, however, it took 1 hour to deliver~ If you like thin and spicy pizzas you will find them at Columbo's at a cost of $4.90. It arrives in approximately 25 minutes and has a very distinct tomato taste and little if any pepper<Jni. • Dominoes pizza cost $4.60, (it is only $3.60 with the coupon in this paper} and arrived in 40 minutes. It was a thinner pizza than most of the others and was thought to be \mushy\, not cheesy eno11gh, and having a dry sauce. Most students felt tbat the .pepperoni was one of its better traits. • . The pizza received .from Cann's was refused when it arrived cold and stuck to the box an hour and a half after it was ordered. We were informed that this usually does not occur qut, rather tasty pizzas arrive instead. - The students of the second -floor of West College would like to extend their condolences to any establislunent that was not included in the contest, and assure you that they will be · more than willing to taste your pizza at any time. They also hope that their results will aide other pizza lovers in the ar- duous task of choosing \the right p~zza\ in the .future. JSO - ·Hillel Happenings by .JILL, ARYEH and AVI · Continuing last year's sue· cessful prograinming schedule, · J .s~o.-Hil1el began the new year With a. well attended Shabbat Dinner.lleld on October 6 in the Kosher Kitchen, the dinner provided. sumptuous. fare, follo.wed' by a .slide show of Israel by Jenny Richman, a former paliicipant in the Israel term abroad. This past Monday afternoon, a Sukkah was erected behind the Kosher Kitchen. in ob- servance of the Jewish festival of Sukkot. From 4-6 cake, wine and fresh fruit were served UJ1der the open roof of the Sukkah. Braving the brisk AutlllllJl temperature, about 70 students stopped by to help celebrate the harvest holiday and schmooz aroWld. · This year for the first time a religious preference card will be plac.ed- in the mail boxes -of students. JSO-Hillel, in con- junction with the Newman Club · and Christian Fellowship is attempting to reach Union students of .all faiths. This in an effort to facilitate the com- munication of religious ac- tivities on campus - and surrounding areas. Those of you who have not yet joined JSO-Hillel, do not feel it too late! Many more activities are planned for this term, at any of whiehyou may become a member. The bagels and lox brunch planned for Oct. 29 affords a perfect opportunity to do just that. The· brunch will be held from 11-1 in the Kosher Kitchen. Watch for our posters. Also keep in mind the 6th of November. On that night we will be presenting the movie The Fixer, in SS016. We look forward to seeing all of you at our upcoming events! \ . . '

. I·. / Page 10 GONOOBDIBNSJS, October :t9, 19\18 culture··. ' Tom Paine Is Coming Southside Johnny • I byDONNACRE~LEY Tom Paine is scheduled to appear at Union this November. Also coming are several of his acquaintances, such-as: Marie- Claire Charba, Peter Craig, Jerry Cunliffe and· Claris Erick$on. However, due to Paine's death in the 1800's you will have the opportunity to meet him through the unique and en- tertaining media known as Drama .. Yes! TOM PAINE is the name of the Mounte-banks upcoming play and his friends are the characters who will tell you about liiin in their own way: In an. int~rview, Bob Walter,. the guest director, described the play. \TOM PAINE takes place in a bear pit in lower . Manhattan in 1809. It concerns a group of traveling players who Southside Johnny Here Saturday- Nite byFR~DHEAD robust sound which leaves the listener· thirsting for · nothing else. Concert-goers leaving . a, Jukes show could be heard saying \Wow man. What a great show.\ \Excellent! and \Too much!\; Who'd miss a· show which garners reactions sucb·as these? .So come c\own to \ the Chapel Saturday night and 'Shake yourself silly with Southside Johnny and the Asbury 'Jukes. As .tohnny himself would tell you, you won't wanna go home. { detetinlne to play out certain. key incidents from Totn Paine's life. By doing this they attempt to discover who this person really was. It also takes place in ,a theater and. is a play that was written in the 1960's when our country was once again torn by internal re.volution, both politic~Uy and esthetically. What results is an eclectic theaterical mosaic with snat- ches'of buffoonery, satire,. high drama and bistorically ac- curate incidents: 'l;'hese com- bine in a crazy q~lt w~y to present us with a ·picture .of one of America's, and the world's; first revolutionaries. Tom Paine was an .iconoclast who was ahead of his time.\ Ttietwo-partpaly was written by Paul Foster and published bV &tmttelFrench, Inc.Itwas first performed at the · Edinburgh 1 International Festival, Sep- tember, 1967, in the Church lJill Theatre, under the auspices of the Traverse Theatre. Its first .performance in the United States was. by the La Mama Troupe at the Stage 73 Theater, New York, in March,. 1968. Walter feels that this play is appropriate for Union College in ~hat it appeals to the wide variety of· backgrounds and interests oftlie people here. It iS one of the most diverse plays, combining history, politics, philosophy, and art, as well as drama. \The play is like a super-realistic stain. glass window wherein each .shard of r glass reflects an Wlexpected light.\ . TiCkets for SOUTHSIDE JOHNNY and the ASBURY JUlES can be obtai~ed fn Cclrriegie Han 12·:30-4:30 - . . $4 w/Student I\D. $6.50 without . SOuthside Johnny and the Ashury JUkes will bring their rock and roll extravaganza into Union this Saturday night, October 21 at the Union College Memorial Chapel. Johnny, whose friendship with Bruce Springsteen bas carried over into a similarity in musical styles, creates some rQusing, rhythm and blues styled rock and roll_ music which touches the soul and activates the spirit. A live Jukes show is truly. a spectacle in the Greek tradition, as the Jukes put on a show which could be described as a \musical orgy.\ Expert musicianship combines with ·The· Social Committee·· Preseats A· Nightdub I- . integr~ audj.ence participation to produce a whOlly worthwhile evening. The band consists of Johnny on vocals and guitar, Kevin Kavanaugh on keyboards ·and vocals, Kenneth Jlentifallo on dru,nls ·and ·bass vocals, Billy Rush on guitar, Alan Berger on bass,. Carlo NoVi on tenor sax, Ed Manion on baritone su, and. Tony Pallagro$i on trwn~t, i The end result of this asseui .. blage of musicians is a full, · What do,..an M&M, basketball :aar. Sean Morley is from and chi<;ken have in common? Bo$t·on where he studied Th find out the answer to this comedy, juggling and the cir- question and more; come to the cus. He later went west to nightclub presented by the Colorado and then to' S~n Social-. C-ommittee on- F.riday,. _ _ Francisc!,)2_Ca!if-2.mi~Lwhere he __ October '!.7 at 8:.30 in the Alumni: w~s involved in street shows Gym. This is the first event of and concerts. He has since the school year that the Social returned to Boston, where he Committee has organized, and has a shOw every Friday night it promises to be an enjoyable and teaches comedy at his own evening for all who attend. school of comedy. Morley's act Tickets are $3.50, whi.ch in ... - is quite varied, including stand~ eludes t\Y'o drinks;. food and the up comedy (with audience · show. · · participation), political . There · will be two acts-a juggling, character sketches, -comedian named· sean Morley gtritar playing and a bit . of and a band called Eight to the magic. I , ' '... - Eight to the Bar is an eight' ·. swing aound. In addition to the· piece Swing, Country and good- . four vocalists, there is. a piano, time BoogieWoogie band based lead and bass ·guitars, · pedal in New Haven. Tbe perfonners steel guitar and drwns. For are all in their twenties and those who really like to danee bave played in dubs frQ~ ~Nc11::th _ and even for the rest who just Carolina to Vermont since they eiijo)::Jisfemntrto~ood-·mUf!ici started in May of 1975. Thejr Eight to the Bar wijlproveto be show is very lively, with a great pleasure. swinging songs from the· Only 200 tickets are available Thirties· to the Seventies, that for this .special occasion keep their audiences <lancing because of limited room in the throughout; The three womel}: of · ' gym. They will go oil . sale the group perform the best . Monday~ Octooor 23 ' in the songs of the Andrew Sisters Student ·Activities Office_. Don't with perfection. Tqe lead male miss/out· on _this evening of singer provid~s comic relief and comedy, music and dancing! a fine voice for the. western \•.f. ------------~---A-rea :Calenda-r----~ ............ - MUSIC· S~Jnday., October -2~--~Irvi~ Gllman will perform the Flute / . State Park. ·The lecture Will begin at 7:30p.m. i,n~the Gideon Room· in the Administration Building. FILMS.· Thursday, · Oct. 19•-The Sona~as of J.S. Bacb in the Threepenny Opera will be University Art Gallery at 3 p~m .. presented on the Main stage of Accompany harpsichordists the Univ. of Albany's ·Per- will be Don Haines Guidotti, forming , A,r.ts Center.. On ·. Dorothy Held, a~d Findlay October 1~21, and 26-28 :th£ QlckreU. . . . .. . FridaY., October: 20-J,)id You show Will be at 8 p.m., on the Wedne~~y,. ·.~ber ~U. See That M()vie will present 21st there will alSc} ~ a 2 p.m~ . Utah. Jlllillps, will· ~dorm ·fQlk Josef - He~fitz's_. adaptation . of matinee. For· ticket info. caB. , songs,and. P&llads .(SQille of llls Anton Cbeckov'& 'llbe Lady with 45'1..u&OG. · · • · own) at the Eighth Step Coffee ·· tbeDog ... Tbe showings wiU be m · Friday, October 20·-The House in Albany. Doors open at Auditorium One, 75 . New Cranberry .Lake Picking and 8 p.m., the show starts at 8:45 Scotland' 4\ve.,. Albany,at8 and Singing SOCiety will perform at p.m. . . 10 p.m .. There will '&lso be a the Eighth Step Coffee HoU$e on Wednesday, .. October 25,-- $Cre~ning on the ~1-st at 8 p.m. the 20th and the 21st. The G8Jll0nes at Bulla BaUoo m . For info caU 43EJ..7371. Society•s jug band ·music wi1l Ren~elaer. Tickets available ;begin at 8 p.m. The Eighth Step at .Midland records, Mohawk i$ located at. 14 Willett St. in Mall. EXHlBITS Albany; for info. call 434--1703 Th1:1rsday.; Oct. 19--The ~after 8 p.m.). . · . · LECTU;RES showing of the prints of Peter Friday, October--Travis, Sowiski, eqding_ today, can be Shook and the Club Wow Folk Friday, . October 20--The seen in the Rathbone Gallery at MusicGroupwillperformatthe Junior Colleg~ of Albany will the Jr. College of Albany. Rathskeller in the RtiSSell Sage pres~nt\ a slide lect~e Wi~ Gallery hours are 1-6 p.m. For College. There will . be two mus1c: . Sweet q:rass Lives On. further infonnation call 274- shows 9 an_d 11 p.m .. For further _ .by Jama~~ H.~gh'Yater. ~ 2344.. , info. call·2'1o-23,44. :, . p;re_sf;lntatlo~ . on ~mer~can . Friday, Oct. 20-·Beginning ' saturday, October 21·-Doc Indi~ .tolk hist9ry vyillliegm. at · today· at tbe University Art Severinsen \Vill .~ the gu~ 8 p.m. FoJ;, f~her informatton G~llety ·at SUNY A is Tenth artist in the Albany SymphDny's call 270..2344. . . Street Days, works by N.Y. Pops and Dance series. A single .. Thursday, Octo~~r 26••A artist during tile 1950's; and performance will be held at the lecture on . N?tf:Itlo~ and recent works from the 1977 Palac-e The~tre. For ticket info. Natural Foods will be given by Mohawk-Q:udsou Regional. The call 'l63-4755: · Sophus Tetens at Saratoga Spa exhibit will run through Nov. I ' I . . 21: gallerY' hours are Tuesday-:- Schene.ctady Historical Friday. ·9--5 P:.m.;· wee~ends 1.4. Society-a p.m.-:'32 Washington · p.m. and Thursday until8 p.rn. · Ave. Slide Lecture-Series COntinuing through Oct. 22 at Schenectady Civic Players- Russell Sage College is .an \CACTUS FLOWER\ See 16th~ exhibit Qf .seven arti$ts,. cour-.r October· ··20,; F·riday-- . tesy of the Kornblee Gallery in Schenectady :light Opera-8':30 New}\orltCi~y. The show can be p.m.~~8'!.6. State· St. -\COM- found in the .Ne,w Gallery in the PANV\ . , :; , Schacht Fine Arts .. Center, 1 9 . Amer. . Assoc'. ot Univ. a.m. to 5 p.m., Mon.-Fd., and 2 Women--9:45. a.m .... scotia• .. to 5 .p.m. oil Stlndays. Glenville H.S.-·l :30· p.m.-- ThiS month in S.U.N.)'.A.'s N-iskayu·na H.S.-·' 'THE · Fine Arts building on PRINCESS & THE FR00 1 ' Washington Ave •. in Albanyi two Sehenectaay· Civic \Playe.-s- exhibits will ·oo going on. The ·~cACTUS FLOWER\ See 16th . sculpture of David Hayes Will . October 21st Saturday•- sbow ,until Nov. l ~d an en• Schenectady Light Oper:a-8:30 vironment81 exhibition about p.m.-•826. State · . ' St.-- unsighted people called \I Am \COMPANY\. · Not Blind\ will run until Oct. 22. Gallery ··.hours! . clo~d . ~o!l· i · Schenectady civic Player$- Tues.·Frt. 9.5 p.m.; Thurs. td 5 \CACTUS FLOWER\ See 16th. p.m .. ; Sat: andSun .. l-4 p.m. For · October 2·2nd. . Sunday- .. furt~er mformatlon contact Schenectady I,.ight Opera--8.:30 Marrjo Fas~lo, Assistant p.m.-·826 state · st.-- DireC~:pr. ''COMPANY\ . .- .. Kiwanis Club-~7 :30 p.m.-~ · The Sebe~~etady Art8Councn :Niskayuna s.s ..... ,ilm'\':8yways preseats.: j ·- ~ October 19th Thursday, Schenectady Light Opera-8:30 p.m.-·826 . State St. \COM- PANY\. of Ft:ance.. ... October 23rd 1 Monday0:-Books Sandwiched-In-•noon-~Central · · Library-Book Review 11 Per- jury\. , - a j I At rele; ''Jej Out. awal parti been in co ·forer fans, disal Th albw aren~ SOUlll live beca1 from pr9d1 m vo. live i Live' ''Secc two o mind· -- ····, .. It Poll~ Peot mov: pope do WI had falle shm1 day• alai nam• ta.,r.e he d Whe woul grow ·forw probl \'\\ \ \Vi covel I WaJ IhY.Il Tb4 large to·thl read: AND \01 turne mayc up, probl Polly ·town ring~ child! won~t ass he OUr'' (I ·won't mo.utl all PE \W Paul. ···w - c. With Alban projec If partie club, 1 on WE 7:00-1 Loun1 form~ 37().65

~ OQNf1Q,RDIENSI8, .October 19_, 1978 Page 11 Jethro DUU . Fizzllng: Out by PURE BOB BLAKE At long last Jethro Tull has released a live albtun entitled ''Jethro. Tull Live-Burst1ng Out.\ This issurely an eagerly ·awaited L.P~ for any fan of Tull, particularly those who have been priviledged· to see the band . !n concert. Tull is still one of the foremost live bands. These fans, however, are in for a disappointment. The main problem with this album, recorded-at some large arena · in ·Europe, is that it sounds absolutely nothing like a live Tull concert. This is . because ''Bursting Out'' suffe~;s from the use of advance pr9duction. techniques that are in vogue to use in many recent live albums today. \Love You Live\ by the Rolling Stones and ''Seconds Out\ by Genesis-are two other .. a.lbums that come, to mind which also suffer from this same affliction. What happens is that these albums are produced ·for· - cleanness and accuracy of sound. The true Uve sound becomes altered as the tapes of th.e ·performance are over- dUbbed 'aFid remixed. The result is a live album that c-omes close to studio quality, which serves as a fine sampler o( the gr.oup's work. But as far as capturing the excitement of a Jive show, it fails miserably~ Such is the case with \Bur- sting Out.'' The album is mixed bringing Martin Barree's ex- ceptional playing to the forefront of the music, but the bass, which g~Yes the music a good deal of its driv:e, is very low. The keyboards, which give 1-;ull's music a heavy classical sound, are almost inaudible. Ian Anderson's caustic wit has been replace<J on. this album _by a very tame delive-ry. Pat- ticularly uncalled for arid .an- noying are the ostentatious bleeped out introduction to \Hunting Girl\ and \Too Old to Rock. and Roll, Too Young to Die.\ In summaHon, \Bursting Out\ is not an altogefuer bad album, but it simply does not convey what Jethro Tull live is all about. For the truly dedicated fans who wish for a superior ·live Tuli album, they may want to make an effort to get a copy of the el(eellent Tull bootleg, \A Sackful .of Trousersnakes.\ This \I believe is still in circulation. From an unedited tape spch as this, one can easily see what the fuss over Jethro Tulr is an about, While ''Bursting Out'' often leaves you wondering why people are -even staying until the end of the concert. Rain Spo~~ Bingo Fest. bySTEVEMONOSSON It was never the same after Polly PicklesS- came to town. People no longer went to the movies in fear of poisoned popcorn. Barber shops closed down because everyone's hair bad gone white and eventually fallen out. The town was, in short, scared pickless. But ~>ne day a saviour rode into town on a large ostrich. His glamorous name was Paul, as he chose not to,rceveal .. hisJast.name:because he didn:'t want to be noticed. When Paul's ostrich just wouldn't pull his head out of the ground, the mayor stepped ·forward and presented· the problem of Polly Piekless. \'Welcome to our town, Paul . '' . ' , \What!?!\ Paul realized his cover was blowll. ''Who told you I wa.s in town?\ ''Who-told you · my name?\ · her and take -her to Puerto _Rico.\ Paul thought this over. He. had heard she had a nice . body, but no personality. \Where does Polly live?\ said Paul. At this point the crowd went into a · mindless hysteria. It acted; as if it had jtrst spent .. $600,000 on sweet tarts which it thought were quaaludes~ \Holy Creepers! It's· Polly Picklef!S !\ offered one Wildly aroused young man. • - > • > • • Within ·seconds; not even a physics major could be seen' on the street, except for Paul. Paw had yet to take notice of the turn of events, as he was busily preening his ostrich. Finally she spoke• put theni in a tank with red oscars .. ;'' \RED OSCARS!!! Your aunt put kissing gouramis in with red oscars! AAAH! No! 1 give up. I surrender. I lift the curse.\ .Polly eollapsed to the ground and turned into a McDonald's stand. · · ·The .~mayor came out to congratulate Paul. \'You're tne tmvn hero, Paul. How do you feel?\ \Well I may be the town hero, but Polly's the town hamburger! Hal Ha!JI .. No one laughed at Paul's joke. In fact, everyone went home inuriediately and did his or her best to forget he ever lived. Years later people would say: · \Remember Paul?\ \Yeah Shittiest joke teller l ever heard. I'd rather _drink mud.\ \Yeali.\ ulture 1a,J1 Ariclerson: Toopolished to rock and roll? 0 . ~ I thought That when it came There would be FIREWORKS AND SHOUTS AND BANNERS But there wasn't. There was a warm feeling On an· otherwise cold day, And a quiet thought In a noise filled street, And then. I knew it was here. I lov.e you. I ' VJE P~ease. submi~ all poems for Fine Lines to Box 1388, Jan De Deka, Fme Lines Editor. (Poems can be anonymous if you want.) The . Mayor pointed·' to tlie large sign which wa$ attached to· the side of the ostrich: which read: \MY NAME IS PAUL AND I AM IN \TOWN.'' \Yo shmuck. Your face looks like the inside of Richard Nixon's left hemorroia.\ · Paul looked up to find out who had questioned his cbaracter. He addressed th~ woman. \Is that meant as an insult?\ \Why no, I just thought 'it up to be a fashionaole conversation opener. -How do you do, 'I'm Polly PickleS8.'' Idol· Seeks. Support \On said Pau} .. Paul quickly : turned the sign around the - mayor continqed... \Paul we have a terrible problem and we need your helJ>. Polly Pickless has cursed our · town and everyone's gone onion rings. We can't send . our. children to school- because they won~t grow up to be redneck assholes like us. We have to let oiir'· old folks die ·because they won't put their dentures in their mouth. If this continues, we•u all perish!' . ' \Well what can I do?\ asked Paul. •·•we.'re asking you to marry Circle· K~ · .. . . . · Continued from \\ge 6 . with such schools as SUNY Albany, Siena, and Skidmore is projected for later this year. If you are interested in participating_ inthe Circle K club, t)),eir next mee.1lng will be~ onW'lldnesday, October .25 from 7:00-8:00 p.m. in the Fox Lounge. For further in~ formation call Andy Yuan .. at 370-6559 •. Paul remembered his prior mistake and played it cool. \1\fy nan;te's Jerry.\ Polly smiled a de\lllous smile. '~You name's . not J·erry. You're Paw and you've come to rid this town of me, but you won't! You see, I have thOusands of tropical fish!!!'!\ Paul knew lle was in troUble. He would have to win this duel with tactical strategy. ''Do . you have kissing go!JI'amis?\ · ''Why, yes, several pairs, why do you ask?\ . \My aunt had some but she · . Counseling: .• . Continued from page 6 tributes this to the increasing compleXities_ of todays life, and the pressure to succeed. Working with Dr. Dowling at the CoWiseling Center are Dr. Donald Spring and . Elaine Lavine, who is presently seeking her Ph.D at SUNY AT Albany. The Center is open Mondays through Fridays from 8:30·5:0~. ,Although ap- pointm~nts are not necessary, they are suggested. . . ' by ANDREA BOW.EI{S There is obsertable tendency of Union to · define itself primarily ·by. its strong · engineering science programs. Naturally thisattracts.a student population of similar interests. The arts-humanities programs,. respondinding to a smaller sector of students,. has bad to str11ggle. This struggle can be attributed to a basic lack of numbers which are vital to any organization young in its ·en- deavoll!. · , · The Idol ·literary magazine has met up with its share of rcsistapce. In recent yeap;, its staff has been composed of a small group of students. The project of producing a tri- annual compilation of creative writing and art work has fallen into the hands of a smail number of students. VVe cannot assunae. that the campus contains no artists at all. The arts-humanities faction is. substantial enough, that we must locate the resistance elsewhere--Not enough students are responding t-o the Idol. In a· college envi.i:onment, wh~re standard, academic writing styles are conformed to~ an · opportunity to write creatively, witl;lOut the limitations that the college student must freqoently abide ~y, is an important function of a college-especially a liberal arts sch()Ol!'!uch as Union. LikewiSe, . it is important for a student to experiment and evaluate his · own and others' work from a position .free of academic in- · fluence. When one writes merely when required to, writing often falls into a trap, becoming ineffectual and predictable, serving merely as an exercise in conforming to a standard formula of writing; and containing no elements of cr.eativity beyond what is required by the situation. Natur~lly'this does not have to happen, but too often it does . · The Idol, as Union College~s literary magazine , is interested in craftful: writing and art, unique and creative in -content and form. This year's staff seems motivated to this pur- poSe. The group is maintaining a small number of workers, yet is g~ining elrtra participants every . week .. Many ideas. and possibilities- have been tossed around and the Idol is not going to compromise itself any longer to· a minor role of influence· on campus. The Idol must be supported by a _greater student response. An interest in the eXposure of quality campus art work and writing must be made a priority. - Among· the possible changes hoped to be mad~ is. a greatly increas.ed number of sub- mission!';, Along witb this change, it is hoped that the Idol's repetoire will include all kinds of writing and art- Fiction, prose, and drawings ~e especially encouraged. The Idol hopes to be printing short stories, prose, essays and other works aside from its' recent focus on poetry. An appeal is made to Union students to support the Idol in its poetry readings. The 1973- 1979 staff hopes to sponsor a large paetry reai:iing conducted by a major contemporary poet ot lyricist. Any speaker is possible! The Idol hopes to plan several sm.aller readings of stud~nt-poetry, as well ~ local and contemporary work. student response is necessary to make these readings enlightening experiences. With these basic. com- .mitment$ to the Union po,pulace, the Idol magazine hopes t()\ contribute sub- stantially to Union's maturing arts program. As any student- comprised, student-directe~ activity, the success will be deterp1ined by the energy contamed within and without the group. Individual par- , ticipation and genuine interest· ~is the goal. All Idol meetings and\ Idol-sponsored functions :will be advertised. '•

''If it's important, it'~ in Clas_sifieds\ BULLETIN BOARD Proposals are now being accepted by the Internal Education Foundation for student initiated and college community ·research projects for the 1978 .. 79 winter and spring terms. In order to submit a proposal, students must have written approval of a faculty advisor who has agreed to supervise the ,.project. · Proposals should be submitted to the dean of faculty's office by Nov. 1. The foundation will notify recipients of funding by Dec. 15, 1978. The I.E .F. has allotted $100,000 for the 1978•79 projects. These projects range from expansion of the Freshman Preceptorial program to the development of a Calculul Crisis Center. Inquiries regarding the I.E.F. or proposals which have alre.ady been approved should be directed to the office ()f the ,dean of faculty. The following law school representatives will be available at the following times and places: Oct. 18, !};.11 a.m.-Capital University {Prof. Jane Krastal) in Prof. Board's office, SS 216C. Oct. 23, 3-4 p.m.-Western New England (Prof. Baker) in Phi Beta Kappa Room, Library. Oct. 24, 10 .. 12 a.m ..... Duke University (Prof. Melvin Shimm) in Prof. Board's office, SS 216C. - Oct. 26, 9:30-11 a.m ... -Boston scholarship carries free tuition at the E.T.H. (Swiss Federal Institute of Technology in . -Zurich, Switzerland, one of · ·Europe 1 svery best) and a grant · in Swiss francs which should cover the costs of room and board, })ut not travel. All courses are .in German. Act now if you are interested . in. this HONOR which goes on · your. reeo11d. app'tied · to ~he Winter term unless you call me (372-5593) or write me (box 2243) and request otherwise. Anyone interested in having the Times delivered for Winter and-or Spring can also contact me, Dave Siegel, at the above number. COLLEGE POETRY REVIEW The National Poetry Press Trav.elers Insurance Com- announce$ the dosing date for pany will have some positions the submission ·Of manuscripts available for December , by College Students is Computer Science Graduates in November 5. January and February 1979. If Any student attending either you are interested; please call · junior or senior college is Hal Drury o~ (518) 457-1553. ·. eligible to 'submit his verse. There is no limitation as to form or theme. Shorter works are preferred because of space limitations. GOULD PUMPS, INC~ will be recruiting this year for • . mechanical and civil engineers for expected positions in sales, application, and design engineering. Representatives from Gould Pwnps will present an orientation session on Nov. 8 · m the Placement Office from . 3:30 to 4:30 p.I.Jl. for stu~ents who would like to learn about their company. Sign-ups for their recruiting visit and orientation session will be on October 25 at 4:00 p.m. Tl'iey will recruit on campus on November 9. The Social Committee Each poem must be typed or . printed on a separate sheet and must bear the name and home address of the 'student and the college addr'e.ss as well. Manuscripts should be s~nt tQ the Office of the Press, National Poetry Press, Box 218, Agoura, Ca. 91301. Scandinavian Seminar is now accepting applications for its study abroad progra,m in Denmark, Finland, Norway or Sweden for the academic year 1979.00. This living-and-learning experience is designed for college students, graduates and other adults who want to become part of another culture . while acquiring a second language. . University (Prof. Richard - Pearson) in Phi Beta Kappa Room, Library. requests that any fraternity, club, organization, committee or individual who has any Social Committee equipment to please contact Debbie Kaufman (Bo~ 1384) or leave a message in the Student Activities Office. It is necessary for our inventory~ please help us out. An Energy Committee was formed ·in order to find ways .of saving energy on campus. We need your conservation ideas! Please inform one of the following persons if you know of any energy conservation methods that would be ap- plicable to the college campus. Prof. J .R. Shanebrook Mechanical Eng. Dept. An initial 3·week language course, followed by a family stay whenever possible, will · glve the student opportunity to practice the language on a daily basis and to share in the life of the community. For the major part of the year he is separated from his feUow ·American students, living and studying among Scandinavians at a \People's College\ (.residential school for continuing adult education) or some other specialized institution. Oct. 27, 1():..12 a.m.-Vermont Law School (Prof. Leslie Peat) · Prof. Board's office, SS 216C. Oct. 30, 3-5 p.m.-NYU Law chool (Prof. Martin uggenheim) in Phi .Beta . appa Room, Library. Nov. 1, 9:30-11:30 a.m.-Case · estern (Prof. Frank DiGiammarino) in Phi Beta appa Room, Library. State Legislative lntems Date: Thursday, October 19 TiBle and Place: 4:15 p.m., cial Sciences Bldg., Rm. 112 Event: State Legislative Internships--Informati(}nal Meeting. ·Seniors, Juniors and Sophomores from all majors invited to hear about an in• ternship program for winter and spring terms, PS 176-178, \Legislative Observers.\ Political Science majors will be given preference. Interested Students who cannot attend should see Professor Thomps(}n rSS 216A). American Univ,ersity . Washmgton Seinester . Program, Programs offered include national government, urban, economic policy, ·foreign policy, • international development, justice, and American studies. Winter and Spring terms (only· four or five collrses). Interested . students see Professor 'J.1lompson, Tues. or Thurs., • 2:30-4:00,. SS 216A. E. T .B. Scholarship in Swit- . zerland for 1979--80 Those sophomores (or junior engineers on a 5-year 2 degree schedule) who are s~ience or engineer majors and on the ·Dean's List and who·have or are 2nd floor-steinmetz Hall . 370-6264 . Prof .. W.C. Aubrey Mechanical Eng. Dept. Steinmetz Hall 216 370-6266 Robyn Kobert Box 384 377-0225 N.Y. TIMES , Due to the strike of pressmen and other unions against tlfe three New York City dailies this swnmer, as Itm sure you all - realize, the N.Y. 'rimes has not been delivered. The strike should be settled within the next few weeks as the N.Y. Post has · already settled anii is printing. However, due to the lack of interest this tet'l11, the Times will not be delivered at all this term only! The low number of subscriptions Ms made it · econoinicaUy unfeasible to deliver this term. A request by me to deliver papers to mailboxes Monday thru Saturday which would cut costs enouth to make it possible to deliver this term, was denied by Director of Housing Dave · All Seminar students par- ticipate in the Introductory, Midyear . and Final ·sessions where matters related to their studies, eXperiences and in- dividual progress ar-e reviewed ·and discussed. The .focus of the Scandinavian Seminar program is an Independent Study Project in the student's own field of interest. An incl,'easing number of :American colleges and universities are giving full or partial credit for the Seminar year .. The fee, covering tuition, · .room, board, and all coyyse-- connected travels in Scan- dinavia, is $4,600. Interest-free loans are granted on the basis of need, as are a few special scholarships. For information please write to: SCANDINAVIAN SEMINAR, 100 East 85th Street, New York, N.Y. 100~. Woods. · CABARET this week: Dee However, the Times will be . '~rd. 2nd Act to be announced. delivered all of Winter and · I.M Sp~ing-. terms and all sub-· · Shows 9 and 11. Tickets oil sale seriptions for the Winter must at 8 in front of ·carn.egie. Any b.e in by Christmas vacation to left over will be S'Old at the door. inSUre prompt delivery. All ALS0..:AnnaW1e'ing Cabaret, persons who ordered the-Times Open Auditions, Wed., Octo~r organiZational meeting of. the Pre-La.w Society Oct .. 19-, Thursday, 9:00, Lower Hale , · House Lounge. All Welcome. · Blology•Che·mistry·Plly.s!c.s · Fall Seminar P~ogram October 17--J. Newman, Physics--''Biological Applic- ations of Dynamic Light • Scattering: Muscle Proteins, Virus, DNA.\ October 31--J. Anderson, · Chemistry--\Protein foll;ling or How Not to Lose Your Shirt at Monte Carlo.\ · · November 14--R. . Rappaport;, Biol~gy-·''How Animal- Cells Divide.'' December 5--K. Schick, , Physlcs-''Electrical Fluctu- •· ation Phenomena in Biological Membranes.\ TUesdays, 4:30 p.m., Physics Seminar Room (N303) \' RAFFLE Circle :K, the relatively new service organization here at Union, is sponsoring a raffle to be held on November 1.. The organization d¢dicates itself ... · . primarily to the welfare .of ~ children and the elderly as well as to the betterment ·Of the campus. An extension of Kiwanis International Circle K was founded last year at Union and is still in the formative stages.. To raise money for charity and campu~ imD provements, the club has decided to hold a raffle. The grand prize is a Sony Stereo System and several consolation prizes including dinners~ gift certificates,. and services in the area will be given away. Tickets will be sold by Circle K ·rnem- bers beginning Wednesday, October 25th for 50 cents each. The drawing will be held on·; · · · November 1 in Fox Lounge. The time of the drawing will· be · · announced later, but, winners need not be present and w~ll be contacted. Please help us out anQ take a 50 cents chance. The moneywill go to good causes and hey, you might even win! TENURE NOTICES ·Professor William Bristolhas replaced Pr.ofessor A.nto~ · Warde as chairman of the ad hoc committee on the tenurability of Assista:ut Professor .Ann: M. Seemann of Schaffer Library. Anyone in Ute College commwtity wishing to comment to the committee, orally or in writing, on Profess.or · .sea:-mann's qualifications may contact Professor Bristol in Room 214, Social Sciences Building, ex• tension 6221. The Provost has appointed an ad hoc committee to evaluate . the · tenurability · of Assistalit .. Pr.ofessor LucUle :Brown, Assistant Catalogue.r, Schaffer Library. Persons who are able to contribute to the· committee's mv:estigation are invited to . submit statements or give their names to the chairman of the committee, E.F. Gil[ette, Department of Mathematics, Bailey Hall. . An ad hclc conunittee · has . been appointed by the Provost . to g~ther ·evidence·. concerning the tenurability · of Assistant .Profess .. r Ge .. rge W. Smith of the Biology Department. . The ~coll1Inittee will wefcorne in· \.formation from'all members of getting experience at reading . and understanding spoken . G~t'll1an shotild apply tor this 1- rear scholarship, if theY, are int~rested, before Oct. 31, 1978. Please contact Prof. Wm. Martin in Chemistry. This for the full year will receive · · '25~ 3:30-6:.30 in the·Cabaret. Stgn refunds for the fall term. . up on the Cabaret Board. Subscriptions for the f~ll terp:t There . will be only will be automaticallY the college cotflliiunity who · rnay be familiar with Professor an Smith's work, Resoonses should . \ ... ' be made to Professor Stephen · M.. Berk, chairman of the ad• hoc · committee, in the Department of History, Social Sciences · Building. The ad· hoc committee con- · sidering the tenurability of Assistant Professor John Boyer welcomes any information from individuals . concerning Professor Boyer's work at Union. Written responses or requests t() appear before the committ(le should be directed to Professor Arnold Seiken. Mathemat~ Department, Bailey Ilall. · · A co:mmittee has been established, chaired . 9Y Professor Joseph F;inkelstem,. to discuss the tenurability of ProfessorCharles N. Steckler of the · A,rts 'Department. Anyone· wishing toadd comments to the committee's discussion is in• · . vited to do so, in person ~r in · writing, by contacting Professor Finkelstein, Room 214, Social Sciences Building, Union College, Schenectady, N.Y. 12308 (518-370-6221). Other . members ofthecomrilittee are: Professor Howard Sheffer . (Chemistry), Professor Helen Testroet (Classics), Professor Hugh Allen Wilson (Arts). FOR SALE For Sale--Honda GB 175 motorcycle. Good condition. Call 370-6545. Responsible male needs Rooin~J\p~rtment from now lUltil December. Call 370-6457. LOST LOST: One blue jacket with · writing tbat says \Al \City Line Package Store, East Longmeadow.\ Please contact Karen-346·1357 with any in- formation. Reward offered fo:r worthwhile info. PERSONALS D. Thanks for being such a good friend. T.V. · Roger-Dodger-How's your dog, Seal? Don't worfy, you can alway's wash. John L.-\Guan(} Guano Man. I just want to be a Guano Man.'' Allan H.--\It'.s 5:30! Everybody wake up! Rise & shinet f> • · - HK-Want to tie some knots · tonight1 · JH--\Joel what do I do'? I must be stupid or something.\ . John S ..... Thais! HeY. sweetie- where did y()u hide my scale? · , . Or. B.B.- Thanks for being the best. W.e love you! To Shoals Marine Lab Staff:· Thanks .for aU the Showers, fresh w~ter, a~d cle:m sheets!! HERD-My . expert in crab · portraitur-e. Thanks for hanging in there. LY.. . .if\. · B'G·- 'Your grommet iS showing! (Ycou'D never get the riding crop right either.) / - - ... HE Wa inter1 Lou J mostl 6489'1 An agan Wen• 6646. Eli struc Novel Cc To· amoni .Colle{! thew StudeJ memt togeth for ar Als(,i Forur Richa1 comrr. Phillii Plwnl: Each receiv· an e1 goverr Forurr. body'f guideJ selecU. \Ma commi what t. Steves ·.that all to worl Acco inform. , preced• thegatl the COil monito1 the COil plans f Commi receive when s meet w Steve many 1 commu commit -collegE and whi Student BeloVI indicati1 regulatE Forwn: All-Collt Adm bookst(J plannin commer faculty, educati aid, hou. and film priori tie board, security, supporti ·om buds studies. Student Comm college tions;,tra social, d.epende agenda, housing board. In ad1 special.a• beeri ere~ co min itt fraterni1 vahdalis formatiot · Finally has also conunitt catalo~.

.HELP WANTED Wanted': Soprano or Tenor interested iri music by Emmy • Lou Harris or Dan ·yogelberg- mostlf f~lk 'rock. Call Chris at 6489'or Delores at 346,;3554. Are you interested in playing a game of bridge some evening? We need a fourth. Call Dave at ~ 6646. Electrical Technology in- struction position to begin November. 20, · 1978. Full-time Committees To \increase communication among Student Forwn and AU- -College Senate committees,\ in the words of Randy Feldman, Student Forum vice president, members of those bodies met together Wednesday· afternoon for an informational meeting. Alst;J present were Student Forum President Steve Richards and committee on committe.es liaisons Mandy Phillips, Murry Levison, Ken Plwnb, and Dave O'Connor. Each committee member . received a folder that included . an explanation -of Union's governance system, the Student Forum's by-laws, the student body's constitution and guidelines for committee selections. \Many people who are on committees don't even know what they're supposed to do,\ Steve said. \After this, we hope · , that all committees will be able to work more effectively.\ According to him, such an informational meeting is un- ' preced'ented at Union. During the gathering, Steve, Randy aqd the committee liaisons, who will monitor and communicate with the committees, explaimi'd their plans for this academic year, Committee members ·present . received a schedule of dates when speCific committees will meet with their liaisons. Steve also mentioned that - many persans in the College community are not sure which\ committees are under the All- -college Senate's jurisdiction and which are answerable to the Student Forum. Below is a list of committees, indicating whether they· . are regulated by the Senate or Forwn: · All-College Senate CoJllDiittees Admissio.ns, athletic, bookstore, campus, career planning, college resources, commencement, committee on faculty, student life, educational policy, financial . aid, housing, Lectures, concerts and films, library, planning and priorities, presidential advisory board, public relations, security, .standil'rg of _students, supportive servjces, . conduct ·ombudsman and graduate studies. . Student Forum Committees Committee on committees, college center, conceit, elec- tions,, traffic and pet court, film, social, speakers forum; in- dependent student coiHition, agenda, tax., off-campus housing and the Rathskellar board. in addition, the following special.ad-hoe committees have beeri created by the sttideQt life committee: food facUities, fraternity.:sorority systems, vandalism and course in- formation. Finally, the tax committee bas also created an adwlloc committee . on the college catalo~. OONOOJJ,DIENSJS, October 19., 1978 Classifieos . \If it's important, it's i':' _ Classifieds\ ,,.~ ·~ ., • . ~ . ~ .,.. •. -,-· .. ,, -: • ..,_, •: , .. It:\ ;f. ' ; . position requires · M.S. in Electrical EngiHeering or -equivalent education with emphasis on . electronics, mi.c.roprocessors, and in- strumentation systems; demonstrated ability through significant teaching· and-or industrial experience; com~ mitnnmt to comprehen$ive community college goals. Send resume by October 27, 1978 to Dr. Douglas E. Burgham, Dean of Faculty, Schenectady County Community College, 78 W a shin g 't o p A v e n u e ,. Schenect.ady, NY 12305. An Equal OpPQrtunity Affirmative Actio~ Employer: · Wanted: Sports Statisticians. This pOsition opens next year, but the New:s Bureau needs someone immediately so he or she can learn the ropes at remaining .home football games this season. The resJ)onsibilitite of the job include attending home and away football and basketball games, compiling ~atistics on them, and telephonmg scores to newspapers on away basketball games. The jab also involves com- piling statistics. for hockey and baseball; taking post-game telephone calls from coaches on scores and highlights in other sports; reporting res~lts to the newspapers; gafhermg other information from coaches or the athletic department as needed. Fresbmen or sophomores who wantto continue·the.work in the next few years are preferred. Grants-in-aid are eligible. Please send your name, address and telephone number to the News Bureau~ ·Lamont House, as soon as possible. Also tell us when we can reach you at your telephone number. Anyone interested in working in the box office for this term's Mountebanks production, sign up on the sheet located in the Green Room in Nott Memorial. 1:1nity l{ouse Seekfilg Student Volunteers Unity House of Troy, N.Y., has recently embarked on an ambitious Food-Stamp Outreach Program throughout Rensselaer County and is seeking volunteer~ to assist them in their efforts. Volunteers will be ·used in- a variety of outreach activities such as adlilinistration work, media relations, Food Stamp . counseling, and in door-to-4oor canvassing of public housing . projects. Volunteers wpJ be trained in the Food Stamp counseling · techniques of prescreening, referral, and follow-up. .Page 13 Unity House is a private, non- profit, social service agency that serve& Rensselaer County in several ways. They operate: Unity Park House, a hostel for chronic mental health patients; Unity Sunshine School. an educational program for ()-5. year old children with developmental problems; Unity Developmental Conununica• tions Center, a speech and language therapy p.rogram; and Unity House Street MiniS:try, a crisis-. intervention and counseling service for low- income persons and families. The Unity House Food Stamp Outreach Program is based at 309 8th St., Troy. Interested .students can drop by the 8th St. office or contact Linda Hurst or Steve Callahan, Food Stamp outreach workers, by calling 271-0592. HANSON EXHIBITION SKI . • · . CROSS COUNTRY ~!s~!:'O:Lo ft'!'!!t!PPott!!< 15 &O SALOMON LEATHER BOOT 8 I I I 8 I .3 . gss / GLASS PO-LES. I I I I I a 'e .12° 0 3 P·IN BINDINGS,. ·• I I I I 8 18 00 . WAS 145.45 99 NOW 1971 MODELS AD·ULT SKI PACKAGE ~~c~~e~)~~~re~l~~w~~ak~!~s!y~~rn ~~ ,25(0 on Ice and hard pack· · -- SALOMON 222 BINDING . . . ........ 59•• 2!~~~~0-JJ,~~Lia& .. ~· .... 69so SCOn SKI POLES . . . . . . . . . . . . : . . . 22• · ROSSIGNOL/SALOMON .. . IOSSIGNOL/rfROLIA .. rMJ. root PIOC . CQWUJ'Il Y MOUN'I!Q •. .. . ' .... PKG. 206\ , · · .•.... PKG. 216' 10 ... _ .. -- _ .. NOW ' 222 BINDING ON SALE $44 88 w/LEASH ._._ ______________ _ SALOM·ON 555 BINDING ON SALE Sl!goo Tu w/LEASH 1 WHIC GilLY VIS4\ s LA~~AY 121 N. BROADWAY. QOWNTOWN scHENECTADY ·· OPEN MON.-FRI. 9·9, SAT. 9·6 317--8566 VISI·T OUR STOR£ IN NORTHWAY Sj-fOPPING CENTER. GUNSFAU$

Paqe 14. OONCORDiENS.lS, Octo~er .!9~ 1918 Union Receives 73 Year Old Silver Piece A 73-year-old silver bowl, lined with gold and delicately engraved with scenes of turn-of- the-century New York City subway cars, tunnels, wheels, and cables, has been presented as a gift to Union College. \ - The- unusual five-gallon punch bowl had . been presented to Solomon Le Fevre Deyo, chief engineer of the Rapid Transit Subway Construction Company, by colleagues in 1905 as a · remembrance ·of the con- .. struction of New York's firt ·_ subway line, which was opened to the public in October, 1904. Deyo, who died in 1922, was an 1870 graduate of Union, and the bowl and · an accompanying silver ladle, were presented to Union by his daughter, Mrs. Royce R. Spring of Easton, , Maryland-. In precise detail, the engravings depict surveying and engineering instruments, subway cars, an example of the enclosed subway 1;1ntrances still Network Organizes standing throughout the city, the power plant erected at 58th Street and Eleventh A veRue, bridges, and cross-sections of t11nnels. . • . papers, drawings, l:)lueprints and photographs that belonged to Deyo. · ''It~$ an Ul1Usu~l and lovely piece of work-tand important a~ .... well for- historical reasons,\ said Robert Rasmussen, vice president for- College resources. \The College thanks Mrs. Spring for her generosity.\ _ ... / Also, the handles are shaped . in the form of high-tension caj)les; and subway car wheels fly, ()n the Wings of Mercury., Art Exhlbit~R.efu_r-ns along protruding rails. A crl)ss- The lmaginu:s Art section view exposes the wires. Organization will be conducting· of the electrified ''third rail.'' an exhibition and. sale of fine art Deyo was chief engineer -of reproductions to beheld Friday, the Rapid Transit Construction October 20 from 9:00 a.m.-5.:00 Corporation from 1900 to 1905, p.m. in .Strauss LQunge. during the construction of New This Massa.cbuset.ts based York's first subway line, and travelling art show, .already also served as chief engineer of · 11 b t the subway. division . of the experienced an.nua . Y . Y mos ' time purchase any of< the fine -art reprodUCtions. The prices are unusually low since they ar~ geared to t}}e· student whQ is interested . ilr decorating an empty wall with an inexpensive .art image of substantial quality ·and appeal.. . . Interborough Rapid Transit university students throughout The Women'S Network,. a Jeanne Linden or Wendy Co., the subway's operating New England, Canada, and more practical tha t•t• al E.n\:\\'ers for more 1·nrormati.o. n. company. He was an_. pointed Austra.li;~, will be exhibiting its Along with a brQad selection of bpth obscure and )Veil known works ofthe Great Masters,, will be prints of .E.S. Curtis' photogr(lphic essay Portraits of North American Indian Life_, ( 1898-1928:), plus a broad range of Canadian art, Australian art and selections from the graphic works of M.C. Escher. A limited quantity of matted prints wil! · n po 1 lC lliU' :r- ·co·l·lectl·on of ov_ er ~7. 00< · diffe.rent organization dedicated to fin- chief engineer of the . Inter- ding activities that will tie the The Women11 Network is not borough-Metropolitan Co. Co. images. Students and aU women of Union College affiliated with either sorority on following .its formation in 1005., members of the college corn- ,. together, is planning to meet at campus and did not hold the andremainedwiththecompany munity will have the op~ 7:30 every Wednesday night in meeting mentioned in last until his retirement in 1918. portunity to browse through the Women's Center on the week's Concordy. Union College also has a 2000 years of Western and second floor of Carnegie Hall. collection of e·n~·!neering ~ Eas~ern Art, and· at ,~he .same \Brown Bag Lunches'' on ..---------._.. ______________ _; _____ IIIIIIIM ___ _.._ ____ ..,. ___ ..,.. ... . also be available. Fridays at Strauss LoWlge, a cocktail party for the new . women on campus, student- . . faculty get-togethers, are just - some of the ac;.tivities discussed · each Wednesday night. The Women's Network welcomes new members each week. Those interested in this organization should contact Have a Question? Have a complaint, suggestion or want to get involved but aren't sure who to talk to? The Student Activities and Student Development Offices (first floor of Carnegie Hall) are the places to go for info on clubs, ac- tivities, etc. Mrs. Marra has the names of people to contact for each student activity and conunittee, and Joe Zolner can answer questions ranging from the fraternity and sorority .. ;.. - system to volWlteer services to general resource information. But if you're still not sure exactly who to talk to, or want to remain anonymous, Write a letter. Each student group has a. mailbox in the mailroom, so with all these means of com- munication, there's no excuse for not GETTING J'N- VOLVED!! Big Brothers & Sisters 2520 Black Student Alliance 2521 Block tJ Society 2573 Cabaret • 2544 · Campus Voice 2556 Cheerleaders 2547 Chess Club 2543 Chinese Student Assoc. 2567 Circle K 2572 Club Sports 2522 Coffeehouse 2523 ·concordiensis 2517 Debate 2545· Electronic Music Club 2554 Film Committee 2542 Freshman Record .2524 GleeClubs .2529 Hillel 25.25 Idol 2526 I.R.C. 2528 I.S.A. 2549 ~·· Kosher Kitchen 2574 Mountebanks 2530 Newman Club 2531 Outing Club 2532 P.H.C. 2527 Photo Society 2533 S.E.A. (P.Y.E.) 2535 Sims 2537 Ski Patrol 2536 Social Committee 2548 Speakers Forum 2534 StudentGovernment 2541 Union Book 2538 Union Christian Fellowship 2546 '\Vhen Diplomacy Fails 2519 Nomen's Commission. 2557 Women's Network 2539 WRUC ·2518 W2UC 2540 First annual BudD.ickS . ~. . I deSign a T- shirt contest ~ ...... --.:..... . -- ----- NOW 1 5 .YOUR CHANCE TO BECOME A IJES/t;NER AND HAVE OTHERS WEAR WHAT YOU WANT/ THERE· '5 ONLY A FEW THJNGS THAT ARE A MUST (THERE:S. A CATCH TO l:VERYTI-41NG)- DESIGN MUST INCL..UD£ THE NAMe RliD#ICii$, BOLDLY (THE CON TE'.ST IS NICE BUT WE. 'vE. GOT TO Ct»>JME'HCI'~I¥£). .. I.T JAUST SE: ABLE. TO .BE REPRODUCED IN ONE COLOII.(W£ ARE BASICALLY CHEAP) ... ACL SUBMITTED DES-IGNS( IF NOT SUBMITTED WE WOUL.ON'T ~AVE IT ANYWAY) WILL BECOME THE· PROPERTY OF RUDNICK'S - THE WINNING DES/ON WILL SE' FEATURED ON. THI<S YEAR's T-SHIRT; IN ADDITION WE. WILL. PAY THE' IWNAIIAIG IIHRY.$%S' FIRSr R.A CE AWAR,() (WE _ \R&D YOU WE WE\RE CHEAP). SO IF YOUR GOIN.G TO ~OO~L£ - DO fT W<l fH CI.ASS. CUT OUT THf DESIGN ANO BAING IT INTO THE STORE (MAVSE' WE CAN SELL VOU ON OUR LOW P/IIC£8) OA MAIL It TO •..: . · . . AUDNJ.CH 'S :JOIJ SrATE sriiEE 'T SCNENECTADJ:~r IJI.SDI ·-··- ALL .fNlllfS MUST BE IECEIVED If NOVIMBfl l6tla, 1978 - .,U by D. In 11 the spectacula College so~ last three ·diSappoint Lawrence Dutchmer -defeated Albany St< Qn Oct traveled t< to play H~ game was Senior Jim. victory ov1 Rug byU Rugby, tt fall · t.eam, fashionable \A\ team 01 of 15-0~ Will hushpuppie mention thei nomatchfo1 scr.umming Grinning superiorly and rows bicuspids, Felker han leather out o to score thi Good s}1ow ouistandin~ assured pia Foot?' Salviil 2 on the pla1 In the sec remnants aggressive removed fro break· for Levine); .Ch Fenn suavel through the t point drop-ki of the game · the ManchE ~atch of '73, kicking two 1 to end the ga schneid ove Williams Clu Similarly, team hungtQ enough as U1 trampled, k ched, ripped, a 12-4 v,ictory Marcus scor With Matt· scoring thi Williams also was not enou 1 Paquette put o.f reach with fmal tl'Y., l~a~

OONQ.ORDIEN8lS 1 October 19~ .1.978 . Page 15 \ . ' . . ' ' ' • •• • ., D • 6port6 .. Union looters Keep Rolling On ' . by DAVID SHAPIRO In 11 thoroughly solid, if not spectacular fashion, the Union College soccer team has won its last three' games. Since the -disappointing 2..0 loss to St. Lawrenc.e on October 2, the Dutchm·en have(Jecissively -defeated Hamilton Co:llege, Albany State., and RP1. On October 4, tne tea-m tnaveled to Clinton,· New Y qrk, to play Hamilton College.~ The game was a tough 4efensive battle wit)l neither team scoring in the first -half. Finally, witll , 24:32 remaming in the secqnd half,· senior Paul .Marv:in crossed the .ball to forward P~te fianay. ~hi;l then .proceeded to beat the Hamilton goaltender on a beautiful 25 yard volley· ki~k: From this' point on the Dllt- chmen continually e~hibited stellar defensive play and were able to make :Handy's goal stand up for a 1-0 victory .. Of central importance to tbe victorx was the .play of Union's reserves. Due to injuries sufm fered in the Anny and . St. Lawrence games, the Dut- chmen had to go With four · freshman in the lineup. Both Bob· Hogan ·and Mike Mulpeter , we-re sidelined, but first year · players Pete Cholakis, Tom· Roy and Brian Shea,. performed well in the backfield. A fourth fresh· man, Hans Bukow, started up front :and he, too, made a good . showing. On October . 10, ··the team continued its wmni~~g ways as they defeated arch-rival Albany State by a score ()f 4-3. 'l'he D11tchmen fell behind early in ·the game, but kept their poise and ·were soon manufacturing good scor·ing oppo1tunities. Midway thro11gh the first half, the Union hooter-s. found the range and within a span of 67 seconds twice d~posited the ball ln the Great. Danes . goal. Pete Handy scored . the first Union goal when he beat the Albany State netmindel' with a close- range header.. The go-ahead goal was set up by the .accurate free kicking of senior fullback Jim Manning. Following a midfield- foul,· Manning quick· kicked a .perfect 40 yard drive to Pete Van Valkinburg. Van Valkinburg then converted the pass ·into · a picture goal by . heading the ball into the net from 12 yards out. Van Valkinburg's goal completed tbe first half scoring with Union holding a 2:.1 advantage.. __ Senior Jim Mann'lng, whose tremendous kicking game. fed to the 4-3 victory over Albany State: . . · Approximately eight minute!) into the second half, Manning once again set up a Union score. He boomed another accurate kick which Pete Handy was able to head to a streaking John Kovacs, who then beat Great Dane goalie Arango with a low crossing shot. Kovacs com- pleted the Dutchmen sc?ring when he converted on a penalty kick brought, about by a miscue from a Great Dane defender. Albany State, mach to their credit, did not fold. They con~ tinually applied pressure to Dutchman goalie Doug Crawford and at game's end wound up with a 16-6 shooting. edge. Union, however,. With its hustle and intelligent play, proved more than equal to the task and wer.~ ab}eto hold on for a 4-3 ·victory_. Ruggers Still Uqbeaten by LETII R. BALZ Rugby, the only undefeated fall ·team, pulverized the fashionable Williams College . \A\ team on Oct. 7th by~ score of 15..0~ Williams hard play and hushpuppies were (not to mention their home advantage) no match for the blood-and•guts scrllDlJiling of Union's finest. Grinning in the face of superiorly woven ·sportswear and rows of perfect, white bicuspids, Peter \Panzer\ Felker handily plucked the leather out of a wheeling serum_ to score the first Union try. Good s)low, Pete! No less outstanding was the cool. assured play of Burt \Club Foot\ Salvin who converted for 2 on the place kick. . In the second half, after the remnants . of sorne less· aggressive ruckers were removed from the field (tough break for Eric \Scarface' 1 Levine); . Chip. \Dirty ~arry\' Fenn suavely booted the ball through the uprights for a three point drop-kick. The remainder of the game was rei;Iliniscent of the Manchester-North. Upton ma~ch of '73, with \Club Foot\ kicking two more penalty kicks to end the game with a J5 point schneid over the astounded Williams Club. Similarly, Williams' \B~' team hung tQUgh, but not tough enough as Union's \B\ booters trampled, kicked, bit, scrat• ched, ripped, and ran its wa'y to a 12-4 victory. Danny \T-Neck\ M_arcu$ scored the first try, V'llth. Matt \Opium\ Carley scormg the second and Williams also s~oring 4, but this Was not enough as Mike \Tiny'' Paq11ette put it .completely out o_f reach with Union'-s third and fma! tl'y, l~av.lng the scote 124- at the game end. But '•Player of the Week\ kudos go . to Dan \Spitfire\ Teichman for eating his way out of a wheeling serum; that's dedication! They may ha\'C been cutting\ up in class the previous ·day, but the tired tibia of Albany Med showed Saturday afternoon as Union's \.A'' team fractured Albany's defensive play, out· scoring them· 19-3. Danny \Redman\ May booted ·a phenomenal45 yard kick for 3 to start Unil)n's offense, which . didn't exactly leave Albany- in stitches. Lee usecretariat\ WaXJllan rubbed lhlt in the wound by scoring Union's first try of the game thanks to brilliant line .play. The Club Foot then proceeded to flex .his lowest extremity for 2, to the aina~ement of the anemic Albany Med team and the an\ noyance of the ref. Albany Med mustered enough mitochondria on a penalty kick to score three towards the end of the first half, leaving the half time score 9;-3. It was then. the Scarface Levine wh() sparked Union;s cannonball offense in the second half, scoring for four against a seemingly.. vitamin defficlent Albany Une. Club Foot added another 2 but it was Scarface who sent-· Albany Med into premature ventri-cular fibrillation by blocking a kick; ·recovering it, and then ending the operation with the final try of the game. Afterthree games, the Union scrummer's. record stands at 3..0 with the remarkable scoring ratio of 64:3. Next week the· fighting Garnet conunutes to Albany State for two games to return the following week the 28th of October for a match against the Utica-Rome rugby -club. . Union's third straight victory · came on Homecoming Weekend.. The Ellgineers of R.P.I. were no match for the persistent Dutchmen attack. The final score of the game was 4-2 but ·more indicative 'of Union's domination was the convincing 31·14 advantage in shots-on-goal and 11-3 in corner kicks. Leading the attack while at the same time dazzling the large homecoming crowd was forward John Kovacs. Kovac~. opened the scoring by con- verting a hard rebound off the body of R.P.I. goalie Ken Betts. Union was to score twice more in the first half.;Tbe second.goal was scored by Hans Bukow on .a neat head pass from Ross Kaplan. Goal number three came about as Kaplan was able to tally on an indirect kick play set up :by Jim Manning. Union's last goal,. tho11gb not of critical importance, Wi\S a beautiful .sight to behold. With twelve minutes r.emaining Kovacs dribbled the ball up the right sideline on a breakaway, 'blew past the last defender,, and went one-on.,one witb R.P.I. goaUe Betts. J{ovacs then deftly put his shot through the legs of Betts and into the goal. }1.. beaming Coach Magee com- mented, · \It was -just unreal. I've. never. seen acceleration- Senior booter Pete Handy, currently second among UColl goal scorers with 5. like that before.\ Along with the final 4·2 score, this last goal gave the large homecoming crowd a moment well' worth remembering. The Dutchmen . winning streak will most certainly in~ fl11ence the thinking of those who make the state rankings. lfnion, with a record of 5 vic- Roth • • • tories and 2 defeats, will now enter the crucial stage of the season in which they quest for a spot in the NCAA Pivision II Tournament. The team's next game will be at Daley Field on October 21 ag.ainst a tough 'l'rinity College team. The acti()n is slated to begin at 1:00 p.m. Continued from page 5 submit an in-depth paper. most fulfill the needs for by Although PrOfessor Roth helping them. with career instituted the St. Clare's decisions. According to \Practicum\, it is not a course Doctor · R()th, \This is for merely Biology majors. Ten definitely one of the more in· students are 'chosen each term teresting exper-iences one can for the course. Those picked are even have.\ the ones who the course would The Union College Biology . never had the opportunity to Depa:rt~pent provides for each know enough about it. He sought individual student. Professor a way for ·students to find out Roth comments, \I believe we What modern medicine was all . are one of tb.e finest small about. At the end of the ten college Biology departments in weeks, each student must this entire area.\ Canlpaign '7 8 ~ ) ~ • • Duryea. Continued from page 4 replacement with ETS or ACT· tests to determine the recipients of .the Regents Scholarship. \I support proposals which provide for protective measures · of .reasonable disclosure, adequate notice to students and pare,rtts, and a strong in-· volvement by the State E~ucation Department in the use and distribution of stan- dardized tests and test scores.\ -As neighboring states have adopted ''Bottle·Bill\ legislation,. \the elimination of no-deposit containers in New York becomes increasingly feasible and deserving of support.\ -Utility regulation in New York \has not served the needs of conswners.\ · So, a comprehensi:ve sta~e energy plan is needed \to provide a moratorium on nuclear siting pending the development of a safe and adequate waste dispo~al technology,'' and \the enact- ment of incentives for the development of solat· energy and other alternative energy sources.\ - Carey Continued fr~:m page 4 . toward a four--year medical school and we've already committed ourselves to that and a clinical campus.\ -property tax reform was one way to lower the bill conswners pay for power. · \A major part of the bill you pay Con Ed is in turh. paid to the city in taxes. If Con Ed would not take (in) a lot of tax pay, the bills would not go up as hil!h.\ -he favored \statutory limits on campaign financing and initiation phasea-in public financing of all campaigns in the state.\ -the \major difference in the approach to p11blic problems between my opponent (Republican candidate Perry B. Duryea) ·andm~ is that I believe there has to be further cost cutting, cost containment in government and then a proper proportion of relief from the tax bill.\ . ...

~ _J Page 16 gONOO:Jr,DIENSIS, October 19. 1978 . . 6port6 ' . . . . ' ' . ' ' ' ' ' . ' . . . ' ' Garnet. Recovers: Thrashes Englneer:s :27·0 Corning off a thrilling 28-:-26 loss to Colby the week before, the Dutchmen countered with a near -perfect performance this weekend over hapless . RPl winning by a 27-0 margin. The victory gives Union a 2-2 mark at the midway point as the Dutclunen prepare to travel- to Hobart College (04) in the hope of raising their record above the_ 500 mark for the first time since coach f.a:hell' s arrival. Colby: The first bal.f of Union's also began to awaken forcmg Colby to punt on their next series. Disaster, struck however' as all errant Terranova aerial fell into the hands of lineback~r Harry H:adiares who returned it 42 yards for the score putting the :visitors ahead 28-8 with only 2:35 left in the third quarter. The Dutchmen offense was now in high gear. an.d proceeded iinmediately to the task of getting Union back into the gar?e. An 11 play, 70 y.ard drive Henry Wright is all alone as he turns upfield for sorne- of his 106 yards of receptions on the day. contest with Colby produced what was unquestionably the Dutchmen's worse per- formance to date; A lethargic Union offense neeted only 65 yards- in total offense for the entire first half. If the offense resembled a catastrophe the defense was not much better allowing Colby to .score three out of the first four times they had the ball. When the 'defense did hold, however, it was the offense which provided the Mules with a scoring op- portunity. An errant Dutchmen pass in the last minute of the first half gave Colby the ball -deep in Union territory. While the defense did manage to keep the Mules out of the end zone, Colby perfE!ctly executed a 35 yard field goal on tb~ last play ended. with Terranova (10-26-.3, 129 ·yards) threading the needle with a perfect 12 yard TD pass to wide receiver Henry Wright. Moments later it was the Dutchmen defense wl}o had caugbt the m()mentum as defensive end WEldon Turner recovered a Colby fumble on the Mule 37. Seven plays later tight end Kevin Eberly made ·a sensational over tl:le shoulder catch good for ~ yards and a tou.chdownclosing tl:le gap to\28- 20: . Once again the rejuvinated Union defense rose to thE oc .. casion holding Clilby without a first down and forcin'g the Mules to punt. Due to excellent penetration by the· borne team the punt was shanked and Union found itself with a .first down at Defensive back Kevin Kormondy ~lves the No. 1 si.g.n to trainer Anthony Or.tolano during the 4th quarter. of the half. Though the play appeared to be insignificant at the time, merely upping the margin from 19 to 22 to nothing, it would in fact turn out to be the margin of victory. Colby took the second half kickoff and once again began driving down field. This time however, the defense stiffened and held the Mules on downs. Union took over on their own 12 and immediately drove down fie:d with Terranova going over !r•)in the one to cap the effort. With the Dutchmen offense beginning to perk the defense ~ the Colby 33. with 4:35 remaining. Seven again turned out ,to be the magic number as Terranova bulled over from the ~one to cap the seven play drive and put' the Dutchmen in striking distance at 28-26. The conversion pass to. Eberly was ruled incomplete on a con- troversial call as the clock showed but 2:57 rern~ing. The onsides e:,ffort was recovered by C<>lby and the Dutchmen had to holdthe Mul~s one last time. It appeared as though they baa until quar~ terbac1t Pete Sears (9-14.-1 for 12() yards} capped a sensational d11y by scrambling out of the pocket on ;1 third and fifteen for the first down and the game. RPI For the first time .this season tlle Dutchmen put two s()Ud halves together With tbe result being .a 27-fl drubbing of- RPI in New York State's oldest football rivalry. Union wasted· little time as they took_ the opening kickoff and ground out 64 yards in 9 plays for the score, Mike Squire sprinted around right end fQr three yards and the score. The defense held the ,Engine_ers on downs and an RPI punt gave a fire up offense the ball on the Union 48. Terranova im• mediately moved the team down field with Squire f.lgain doing the honors this time .from 2 yards o11t. · McCarthy, defenslve end Wendon Tutner and Linebacker 'l~on Plumb, limited RPito just 1 yard rushing and 27 through the \'-. air. RPI never in .fact got closer than the UnlQg 36 as the qefense turned in one of the best per· form;lnces of any Union teaw in. recent memory.. · · Ahead by a 14-0 score the Du:tchmen col,lld do. no wrong as defensive eriil' Mark Palomba scooped up an RPI . fwrible on the Dutchmen 42: Terranova, (10-17.1, for 161 yards~ found Henry ,Wright . who out- I1lanuevered 3 RPI defenders for a 42 yard. gain. Wright caught 4 p~sses for 106 yards on the day. Moments later Terranova rambled over from fo11r to give the Dutchmen a 20-0 lead and for all intent and pUrposes the game was over. Junior Mike Squier,who had two TO's fc;>r the Dutchmen Saturday. The Dutchmen only managed to tally but once in. the second half on ~he strength-of a Kevin Kormondy interception. Kor- mondy returned the ball all the way to the RPl 28 where Terranova drove the Garnet to the 11 before striking paydirt with an 11 yard aerial to wide receiver Kevin Fredrick. Volleyball 3-2 Districts Ahead The game was a complete mismatch as both the Dut- chinen offensive and defensive lines controlled the nne of scrimmage throughout the contest. Union racked up 250 yards rushing with Romer and Terranova rushing for 106 and 68 yards - respectively. The defense, led by tackle Steve Afhlete of the Week Saturday's 27-G romp over RPI was one of the best efforts by a Union football team in recent history; and one of the main cogs in the stellar showing was this week's Athlete of the Week, linebacker Ron Plumb. . Ron, a. junior from Ea$ longmeadow, Mass., has been ()Utstanding all .season for the Dutchmen. Last week in the ·frustrating .28-26 loss to Colby, Ron personally restll'rected ·a dormant defense by blocking a punt and an extra point in the second half, helping the Dut- ~hmento come back from a 22-0 halftime .deficit. The varsity volleyball team is now entering it's third week of competition. Thus far, they have accwnulated a 3-2 record with wins· over Vassar, North Adams, and tnster and losses to Williams and RPI. ·Coach Lynn Barta feels the team is working well though they've only . been together for five weeks! The team is very very young with five fre.shmari; Janet Blum, Lydil:!. Canaan, - Kelly Green, Lynn LE!Blanc, and -susan Marr, thret} sophomores; Sue Geher-; captain Sbeila O'DonneB and ~ Jill Thompson, and one seni9r; Diane Rancin; The team was.~ hurt~ by r.an ankle inj'Ury sustained fu practice by senior ·Audrey Stein. Her experience and talent will b.e greatly missed by the team. · The team learned new . and. more complex offense and .defense this yeal'. They play a 6- 2 offense which allows for two setters, Lydia ~anavan andSue Marr to divide the play, and gives them the opt~on of utilizing all three hitters in the front row. Sue Geher splits the game with Sue Marr coming in to play offense. Outstanding play by Jill Thompson, Sheila O'Donnell and Diane Rancin along with their strong hitting. Janet Blum and Kelly Green 'are always prepared to play front line when needed. · This Homecoming Weekend the team. played Ulster College: They defeated plster in four games 15..S~ 15-12, 14-16, and 15- 11. Coach Barta cited Lynn LeBlanc for scrapper ,play. She . contributed seven spikes, iJi,. eluding three aces, four $aves and eleve.n . service points. Captain Sheila O'Donnell also provided power with fiftef,!n .spikes and the same number of aces. Coach Barta is looking for- wardto a good .season. The girls will face. some tQugh com• petition which will help prepare them for their District Tour- nain,ertt which is being held here on November _ 4. The tour- nament should offer. excellent play as ten teams figltt .for two places in StatE! Competition. The public · is encouraged to attend this event if they are interested in high calibre volleyball. The public iS also welcome to any of the team's matches. Theil' next home game is against New Paltz on October 26 .at 7:00 in the field house. Against arch-rival RPI, Ron accumulated a combination of - . ·. 13 tackles and assists , while · aiding the likes of freshman Weldon Turner and junior Steve :McCarthy in limiting RPI to a paltry 29 total yards (onlY 8 in Field H:ockey Stats the first half).. Ron is also extremely active- in campus activities. He is very active in intramurals, both as an organizEr and .a participant, and he is also President of the· Block U. Society. Despite his wide range of interests, Ron is alS() r a fine student., majoring in m~chanical engineering. Player Buthaina Shukri Ellen Heininger · Jane Gulick Charlotte Thomas Debbie Downey Nancy Colt Dorothy Scarpinato Goals 11 10 3 3 2 1 0 TEAM RECORD: 5-1 Assists 5 3 6 2 1 1 2 Vol. AI Unio degree outstat SchenE 21. -TJ deg:ree first ( Day. The p.m. In The two pt4 diseUSE this a terno()J The! Studen senate \one stu den study establi MiddlE Instih Educa exami1 In li:: propos \such consis1 theM! andth4 Hazza1 studei \cruci The that draftir Preser admis: maintt nanc~~ progr; traditi The

Page 16 OONOO:If,DIENSIS, October 19. 1978 5port6 '• • • ~ • • • • ' r '• ' ~' • ' :· ,'' ' • ' ·, • ' ' ' '': ' • • • • : •• ~ •: I • ' • ,' ' • • ' ' ' . ' < Garnet Recovers: Thrashes Engineers 27-0 Corning off a thrilling 28-26 loss to Colby the week before, the Dutchmen. countered with a near perfect performance this weekend over hapless RPI winning .by a 27-'0 margin. The victary gives Union a 2-2 mark at the midway point as the Dutchmen prepare to travel to Hobart College (0-4) in the hope of raising their record above the. 500 mark for the first time since coach f a.hell' s arrival. Colby: The first half of Union's also began to awaken forcing Calby to punt on their next series. Disaster, struck however, as an errant Terranova aerial fell into the hands of linebacker Harry Hadiares who returned it 42 yards for the score putting the visitors ahead 28-8 with only 2:35 left in the third quarter. The Dutchmen offense was now in high gear and proceeded immediately to the task of getting Union back into the gal?e. An 11 play, 70 yard drive Henry . .Wright is all alone as he turns upfield for some of his 106 yards of receptions on the day. contest with Colby produced what was unquestionably the Dutchmen's worse per- formance to date. A lethargic Union offense neeted only 65 yards in total offense for the entire first half. If the offense resembled a catastrophe the defense was not much better allowing Colby to score three out of the first four times they had the ball. When the defense did hold, however, it was the offense which provided the Mules with a scoring op- portunity. An errant Dutchmen pass in the last minute of the first half gave Colby the ball deep in Union territory. While the defense did manage to keep the Mules out of the end zone, Colby perfectly e~e£:uted a 35 yard field goal on the last play ended wtth Terranova (10-26-3, 129 yards) threading the needle with a perfect 12 yard TD pass to wide receiver Henry Wright. Moments later it was the Dutchmen defense wno had caught the momentum as defensive end Weldon Turner recovered a Colby fumble on the Mule 37. Seven plays later tight end Kevin Eberly made a sensational over the shoulder catch good for 25 yards and a tou~hdown closing the gap to \28- 20. Once again the rejuvinated Union defense rose to the oc- casion holding Colby without a first down and forcing the Mules to punt. Due to excellent penetration by the home team the punt was shanked and Union found itself with a first down at Defensive back Kevin Kormondy gives the No. 1 sign to trainer Anthony Or.tolano during the 4th quarter. of the half. Though the play appeared to be insignificant at the time, merely upping the margin from 19 to 22 to nothing, it would in fact turn out to be the margin of victory. Colby took the second half kickoff and once again began driving down field. This time however, the defense stiffened and held the Mules on downs. Union took over on their own 12 and immediately drove down fie:d with Terranova going over ~r•)m the one to cap the effort. With the Dutchmen offense beginning to perk the defense the Colby 33. with 4:35 remaining. Seven again turned out to be the magic number as Terranova hulled over from the _one to cap the seven play drive and put the Dutchmen in striking distance at 28-26. The conversion pass to Eberly was ruled incomplete on a con- troversial call as the clock showed but 2:57 remaining. The onsides effort was recovered by Colby and the Dutchmen had to hold the Mules one last time. It appeared as though they had until quar- terback Pete Sears (9-14-1 for 120 yards) capped a sensational day by scrambling out of the pocket on a third and fifteen for the first down and the game. RPI For the first time this season the Dutchmen put two solid halves together with the result being a 27-0 drubbing of RPI in New York State's oldest football rivalry. Union wasted little time as they took the opening kickoff and ground out 64 yards in 9 plays for the score. Mike Squire sprinted around right end for three yards and the score. The defense held tl1e Engineers on downs and an RPI punt gave a fire up offense the ball on the Union 48. Terranova im- mediately maved the team down field with Squire again doing the hoaors this time from 2 yards out. Ahead by a 14-0 score the Dutchmen could do. no wrong as defensive end Mark Palomba scooped up an RPI fwnble on the Dutchmen 42. Terranova, tl0-17-1, for 161 yards) found Henry Wright who out- manuevered 3 RPI defenders for a 42 yard gain. Wright caught 4 passes for 106 yards on the day. Moments later Terranova rambled over from four to give the Dutchmen a 20-0 lead and for all intent and purposes the game was over. The Dutchmen only managed to tally but once in the second half on the strength of a Kevin Kormondy interception. Kor- mondy returned the ball all the way to the RPI 28 where Terranova drove the Garnet to the 11 before striking J:)aydirt with an 11 yard aerial to wide receiver Kevin Fredrick. The game was a complete mismatch as both the Dut- chmen offensive and defensive lines controlled the line of scrimmage throughout the contest. Union racked up 250 yards rushing with Romer and Terranova rushing for 106 and 68 yards respectively. The defense, led by tackle Steve Athlete of the Week Saturday's 27-0 romp over RPI was one of the best efforts by a Union football team in recent history, and one of the main cogs in the stellar showing was this week's Athlete of the Week, linebacker Ron Plumb. Ron, a junior from East Longmeadow, Mass., has been outstanding all season for the Dutchmen. Last week in the frustrating 28-26 loss to Colby, Ron personally resurrected a dormant defense by blocking a punt and an extra point in the second half, helping the Dut- chmen to come back from a 22-0 halftime deficit. Against arch-rival RPI, Ron accumulated a combination of 13 tackles and assists while aiding the likes of freshman Weldon Turner and junior Steve McCarthy in limiting RPI to a paltry 29 total yards (only 8 in the first half). Ron is also extremely active in campus activities. He is very active in intramurals, both as an organizer and a participant, and he is also President of the Block U. Society. Despite his wide range of interests, Ron is also a fine student, majoring in mechanical engineering. McCarthy, defensive end Wendon Tutner and Linebacker Ron Plwnb limited RPI to just 1 yard rushing and 27 through the air. RPI never in fact got closer than the Union 38 as the defense turned in one of the best per- formances of any Union team in recent memory. Junior Mike Squier, who had two TO's for the Dutchmen Saturday. Vorleyball 3-2 Districts Ahead The varsity volleyball team is now entering it's third week of competition. Thus far, they have accumulated a 3-2 record with wins over Vassar, North Adams, and Ulster and losses to Williams and RPI. Coach Lynn Barta feels the team is working well though they've only been together for five weeks. The team is very very young with five freshman; Janet Blum, Lydia Canaan, Kelly Green, Lynn LeBlanc, and -Susan Marr, three sophomores; Sue Gehet\ captain Sheila O'Donnell and Jill Thompson, and one senior; Diane Rancin. The team was hurt by .an ankle injury sustained m practice by senior ·Audrey Stein. Her experience and talent will be greatly missed by the team. The team learned new and more complex offense and defense this year. They play a 6- 2 offense which allows for two setters, Lydia Canavan and Sue Marr to divide the play, and gives them the option of utilizing all three hitters in the front row. Sue Geher splits the game with Sue Marr coming in to play offense. Outstanding play by Jill Thompson, Sheila O'Donnell and Diane Rancin along with their strong hitting. Janet Blwn and Kelly Green ·are always prepared to play front line when needed. This Homecoming Weekend the team played Ulster College. They defeated Ulster in four games 15-8, 15-12, 14-16, and 15- 11. Coach Barta cited Lynn LeBlanc for scrapper play. She contributed seven spikes, in- cluding three aces, four saves and eleven service points. Captain Sheila O'Donnell also provided power with fifteen spikes and the same nu.m.ber of aces. Coach Barta is looking for- , ward to a good season. The girls will face some tough com- petition which will help prepare them for their District Tour- nament which is being held here on November 4. The tour- nament should offer excellent play as ten teams fight for two places in State Competition. The public is encouraged to attend this event if they are interested in high calibre volleyball. The public is also welcome to any of the team's i matches. Their next home ' i game is against New Paltz on : . October 26 at 7:00 in the field ! · house. Field Hockey Stats Player Buthaina Shukri Ellen Heininger Jane Gulick Charlotte Thomas Debbie Downey Nancy Colt Dorothy Scarpinato Goals 11 10 3 3 2 1 0 TEAM RECORD: 5-l Assists 5 3 6 2 1 1 2 c \' j t \' ~ 0. ~ Vol. 0 ,.\\' 0 .;$:.';;¢<->.~·% ~ f ,, l UniOJ degree: out stan Schene 21. Tt. degree: first C Day. The p.m. in Sc The two pr< discuss this a• ternoor Thef Studenl senate \one student study establi: Middle Institu Educa examir In lis propos. \such consist the Mi andth{ Hazzar stud en \cruci: The: that draft in Pre sen admis! maintt: nance, progr: traditi1 The

~. . ' . Younded it Union College 1877 Vol .. 108. Schenectady,~ N.Y. October 26, 1978 No.5 ,_ . Trustees Convene Here Trustee- Brien O'Toole The Union College Board of Trustees sequestered them- selves in various me~tings around .campus amid a spec- tacular fall weekend. Dr. Day's announcement concerning the value and secure future of the campus 'trustees during the · previous week robbed the gathering of some of it_s potential thunder, but it was nevertheless thoroughly prod-uctive. Most trustees ' shared the impression that the mood of the campus and the state of her affairs. had made significant strides forward over the last several months. The Board once again reiterated their emphasis on the selection of a highly-qualified president as its top priority for the year. To date, the vitae of twenty of the fifty nominees have been reviewed by the Search Committee, and two can<;Jidates who possess out- standing qualities will soon have their names forwarded 'to the Selection Committee for review. It is hoped that some candidates will begin visiting the campus for interviews by mid-November. Area- Residents, HOnored . . . , The Office of the Chairman \announced the establishment of four committees to study the specific recommendations made by the Hazzard Com- mittee. Membership and structure of the· Board, governance, admissions policy, and subscription plans for the endoWI11ent fUI'ld were selected as issues most in need of im- mediate study. These com- mittees are designed to sup- plement, not conflict with, campus committees presently preparing the Middle States accreditation self-study. For example, governance of the Board and its relationship to the administration will be studied by the appropriate committee. Althi)Ugh a com- mittee to investigate the membership of the Board has been inCluded, in lieu of the recent announcement by the Ch!lirman of the Board Dr. Day, the status -of campus trustees is secure. To facilit(lte. the cooperation and com- munication on these many issues, trustee liasons to each self-study committee were felt to be in order. by SCOTT WITKlN Unionawarded five honorary degrees 'to men who have made outstanding contributions to the Schenectady commWlity Oct. 21. -The awarding of these degrees marked the College'S first Community Recognition Day. · The ceremony started at 2 p.m. in Memorial Chapel with a welcome by Dr. Richard G. Day, Jr., chairman of the board of trustees. Follwi:ng the welcome, Acting President~ Norman P. Auburn outlined Union •s ties with · the surrounding community .. A report on academic life by Paula P. Brownlee, dean of faculty followed. ~ext, Aaron Feinsot, dean of graduate studies and continuing education, noted the growing Proposals OD - Senate Agenda_ . by JIM DAVIS The All College- .. ~enate has two proposals oi1 its agenda fot· discussion. at its first meeting of this academk year this af- ternoon at 4:30 in Old Chapel. The first one, proposed by the Student Forum, states that the senate is in favor of appOinting \one and preferably two students to -each of the self- study drafting committees established to prepare for the Middle States Commission· on Institutions of Higher Education re-accreditation examination.\ In listing the rationale for this proposal, the agenda notes that \such appointments would be consistent with the intentions of the Middle States Commission and the recommendations of the Hazzard Report.\ It adds that student participation is \crucial.'' The second proposal requests that an eighth self-study drafting coinlllittee be formed. Presently,· ones ,exist to study admissions, athletics, campus maintenance, energy, gover- nance, matters curricular -and programs beyond the traditional four years. recommends that an eighth .committee be . establisbed to study the topic of .students and' ~student life. . The rationale for this proposal notes that \there has been a great turnover of personnel in the office of the dean of students in the last year,\ and, with budget\ cuts that will necessitate ''difficult decisions;'' it \may not .be clear to the new staff members or to the students wh.at the College feels its responsibilities to its students are.\ The proposalfinds that \some internal discussion of this topic is neeaed., and the re- accreditation process provides a convenient vehicle for such discussion.'' Further, it notes· that \meeting the out-of-classroom ~ needs of its students is a _ primary responsibility.\ The senate's agenda also calls for naming two optional members to the agenda com- mittee. Present members are Steve Richards,. Steve Grill, Andy Wisoff, Susan Pava and Jeff Rotind. ,number of part-time students enrolled here. Dean of Students Robert H. Kellett concluded this ,report by outlining the many facets of student life at the College. While board members., professors, and honorands participating in the ceremony left to don theirtobes, a concert was provided by Union's Glee Club, under tbe direction of prof. Hugh Allen Wilson. The Processional began with ~1x'ofessor· W~ls~m at . the organ and prof. Wilham C. Stone as marshaU. When the par• ticipants were on the podhun, Dr. Day presented -the . can- didates to Acting President Norman P. Auburn who issued the diplomas. The honorands are: The Honorable D. Vincent · Cerr.lto, Class of 1932, a justice of the S~prerne Court in 'the State of New York. He received the Doctor of Laws degree. The Honorable. Samuel S. Stratton, U.S. Congressman, 28th District of New York and a Phi Beta. Kappa gradpat~ of the University of Rochester, who was awarded the Doctor of Laws degree. - Henry DeForest Wright, Chairman of the Board and Chief Executive Officer of Schenectady Chemicals, Inc., a graduate of the Wharton School of Finance of the University of Pennsylvania. He also received the Doctor of Laws degree. Heridrik M. Rosendaal, M.D., was awarded the Doctor of Science degree. John E.M. Hume, editor of the Schenectady Gazette, a University of .Virginia graduate in 1931, received tbe Doctor of Humane Letters degree. Prompted by a report showing that only 28.5 percent of those students accepted actually matriculated to Union College, the Board once again directed their attention to the question of admissions policies. · This yield is well below'that of similar liberal arts colleges and raises many questions con- cerning the process of ad- missions and the external image of the College. The trustees view this situation as one of utmost importance, · especially in .view of the dwindling number Qf qualified stu,dents available in the Eighties. The Provost reported that the search for a Director of Admissions had just begun and a few pominations have already been ma<fe. , It was also notea that only 98 percent of the monies budgeted for financial aid over the last two years ·had been spent. Part of this . stems from the Concluding remarks were given by Acting President Auburn. Following the ceremony, a reception was held ., at Hale House. ··~ many restrictions placed on the type of student who may receive certain endowed scholarships by the donor. Trustee William · Vanneck is working to remove some of these restrictions in an attempt to free much of this money for general scholarships. Last spring it was brought to the Board's attention that the asbestos ceilings in many college buildings. presented a possible health hazard. This summer the buildings wer-e tested for the content of asbestos in the atmosphere. T'he findings showed that the air contained only 1 percent of the OSHA ~andards considered to represent conditions under which a person can live and · work without being affected. Further tests are being run to evaluate the conditions present while people are actually living and working in the dorms, but it seems clear there is no .hazard present from the a~bestos ceilings. The College Resources Committee reported that the Annual Fund set a number of records in 1978, including an overall total of $1,112,640. There was also considerable discussion of the proposed endowment campaign. With the rapid turnover in student affairs personnel, the Board was most concerned to get a feel for the direction that portion of the administration would tend in the solution of some of the outstanding problems confronting students, Most trustees felt that while the condition of residence halls was deplorable, with the increased attention of the administration they could be upgraded and maintained. Essentially, the sense seemed to be that the school had an obligation to provide livable housing, but that students had a reciprocal obligation to take care of them properly. Careful inventories -were highly praised as a vehicle, as were current attempts by the College to enforce and super- vise its health and safety regulations. For the fall tenn, of course, the latter meant the yet to be completed inspections. But Dean Kellett spoke of the necessity of finding more ef- ficacious measures to assure compliance with these Continued on 8 The senate proposal Also, the . agenda calls for discussion of new business that is' brought before the senate. The ceremony lasted' about an ~ hour and a half. All present .~ shared the happiness ' and \\' gratification of the honorands. ~ All hope that _ Union's .E relationship with the com- 1 rnunity will be forwarded by this exercise. Union hOnors community leaders.

I ~ ' ; . floundeJ tit Union College 1877 Vol. 108 Schenectady, N.Y. October 26, 1978 No.5 Trustees Convene Here c tD j t ~ .t- o '0 -:~{{:,..,_,::._wv; > :<,:,:;·~:t•·::..;>;,.·>·-::~ ~·><<>··\\'·'''t~W.,@ f <+. • ...•.. ,., •. ,, .. , ..... . Trustee Brien O'Toole The Union College Board of Trustees sequestered them- selves in various meetings around campus amid a' spec- tacular fall weekend. Dr. Day's announcement concerning the value and secure future of the campus ·trustees during the previous week robbed the gathering of some of its potential thunder, but it was nevertheless thoroughly productivP. Most trustees shared the impression that the mood of the campus and the state of her affairs had made significant strides forward over the last several months. The Board once again reiterated their emphasis on the selection of a highly-qualified president as its top priority for the year. To date, the vitae of twenty of the fifty Hominees have been reviewed by the Search Committee, and two candidates who possess out- standing qualities will soon have their names forwarded to the Selection Committee for review. It is hoped that some candidates will begin visiting the campus for interviews by mid-November. many restrictions placed on the type of student who may receive certain endowed scholarships by the donor. Trustee William Vanneck is working to remove some of these restrictions in an attempt to free much of this money for general scholarships. Area Residents Honored The Office of the Chairman announced the establislunent of four committees to study the specific recommendations made by the Hazzard Com- mittee. Membership and structure of the Board, governance, admissions policy, and subscription plans for the endowment fund were selected as issues most in need of im- mediate study. These com· mittees are designed to sup- plement, r~ot conflict with, campus corrunittees presently preparing the Middle States accreditation self-study. For example, governance of the Board and its relationship to the administration will be studied by the appropriate committee. Althl)ugh a corn· mittec to investigate the membership of the Board has been included, in lieu of the recent announcement by the Chairman of the Board Dr. Day, the status of campus trustees is secure. To facilitate the cooperation and com- munication on these many issues, trustee liasons to each self-study committee were felt to be in order. Last spring it was brougHt to the Board's attention that the asbestos ceilings in many college buildings presented a possible health hazard. This summer the buildings were tested for the content of asbestos in the atmosphere. The findings showed that the air contained only 1 percent of the OSHA standards considered to represent conditions under which a person can live and work without being affected. Further tests are being run to evaluate the conditions present while people are actually living and working in the dorms, but it seems clear there is no hazard present from the a~bestos ceilings. The College Resources Committee reported that the Annual Fund set a number of records in 1978, including an overall total of $1,112,640. There was also considerable discussion of the proposed endowment campaign. by SCOTT WITKIN Union awarded five honorary degrees to men who have made outstanding contributions to the Schenectady community Oct. 21. The awarding of these degrees marked the College's first Community Recognition Day. The ceremony started at 2 p.m. in Memorial Chapel with a welcome by Dr. Richard G. Day, Jr., chairman ofthe board of trustees. Follwing the welcome, Acting President Norman P. Auburn outlined Union's ties with the surrounding community. A report on academic life by Paula P. Brownlee, dean of faculty followed. Next, Aaron Feinsot, dean of graduate studies and continuing education, noted the growing Proposals On Senate Agenda by JIM DAVIS The All College Senate has two proposals on its agenda for discussion at its first meeting of this academic year this af- ternoon at 4:30 in Old Chapel. The first one, proposed by the Student Forum, states that the senate is in favor of appointing \one and preferably two students to ·each of the self- study drafting committees established to prepare for the Middle States Commission on Institutions of Higher Education re-accreditation examination.'' In listing the rationale for this proposal, the agenda notes that \such appointments would be consistent with the intentions of the Middle States Commission and the recommendations of the Hazzard Report.\ It adds that student participation is \crucial.\ The second proposal requests that an eighth self-study drafting committee be formed. Presently, ones exist to study admissions, athletics, campus maintenance, energy, gover- nance, matters curricular and programs beyond the traditional four years. The senate proposal recommends that an eighth committee be established to study the topic of students and· student life. The rationale for this proposal notes that ''there has been a great turnover of personnel in the office of the dean of students in the last year,\ and, with budget cuts that will necessitate \difficult decisions,\ it \may not be clear to the new staff members or to the students what the College feels its responsibilities to its students are.\ The proposal finds that \some internal discussion of this topic is neeaed, and the re- accreditation process provides a convenient vehicle for such discussion.\ Further, it notes that \meeting the out-of-classroom needs of its students is a primary responsibility.\ The senate's agenda also calls for naming two optional members to the agenda com- mittee. Present members are Steve Richards, Steve Grill, Andy Wisoff, Susan Pava and Jeff Rolind. Also, the agenda calls for discussion of new business that is brought before the senate. number of part-time students enrolled here. Dean of Students Robert H. Kellett concluded this report by outlining the many facets of student life at the College. While board members, professors, and honorands participating in the ceremony left to don their robes, a concert was provided by Union's Glee Club, under the direction of prof. Hugh Allen Wilson. The Processional began with professor Wilson at the organ and prof. William C. Stone as marshall. When the par· ticipants were on the podium, Dr. Day presented ·the can- didates to Acting President Norman P. Auburn who issued the diplomas. The honorands are: The Honorable D. Vincent Cerrito, Class of 1932, a justice of the Supreme Court in the State of New York. He received the Doctor of Laws degree. The Honorable Samuel S. Stratton, U.S. Congressman, 28th District of New York and a Phi Beta Kappa graduate of the University of Rochester, who was awarded the Doctor of Laws degree. Henry DeForest Wright, Chairman of the Board and Chief Executive Officer of Schenectady Chemicals, Inc., a graduate of the Wharton School of Finance of the University of Pennsylvania. He also received the Doctor of Laws degree. Hendrik M. Rosendaal, M.D., was awarded the Doctor of Science degree. J-ohn E.M. Hume, editor of the Schenectady Gazette, a University of Virginia graduate in 1937, received the Doctor of Humane Letters degree. Prompted by a report showing that only 28.5 percent of those students accepted actually matriculated to Union College, the Board once again directed their attention to the question of admissions policies. This yield is well below that of similar liberal arts colleges and raises many questions con- cerning the process of ad- missions and the external image of the College. The tmstees view this situation as one of utmost importance, -especially in view of the dwindling nlllnber of qualified students available in the Eighties. The Provost reported that the search for a Director of Admissions had just begun and a few nominations have already been made. It was also notea that only 98 percent of the monies budgeted for financial aid over the last two years harl been spent. Part of this blem stems from the Concluding remarks were given by Acting President Auburn. Following the ceremony, a reception was held , at Hale House. i! With the rapid turnover in student affairs personnel, the Board was most concerned to get a feel for the direction that portion of the administration would tend in the solution of some of the outstanding problems confronting students. Most trustees felt that while the condition of residence halls was deplorable, with the increased attention of the administration they could be upgraded and maintained. Essentially, the sense seemed to be that the school had an obligation to provide livable housing, but that students had a reciprocal obligation to take care of them properly. Careful inventories were highly praised as a vehicle, as were current attempts by the College to enforce and super- vise its health and safety regulations. For the fall term, of course, the latter meant the yet to be completed inspections. But Dean Kellett spoke of the necessity of finding more ef- ficacious measures to assure compliance with these Continued on 8 The ceremony lasted about an ~ hour and a half. All present g shared the happiness and \5 gratification of the honorands. ~ All hope that _ Union's ~ relationship with the com- If munity will be forwarded by this exercise. Union honors community leaders.

Page~ OONOO~DIENSIS, October ~6~ 19\18 Editorials -Housing Discor~ The degree of student influence acceptable in the formation of administrative decision~making has long been a prevalent issue at Union College. Should student input be advisory or legislative in nature? No doubt, there are two sound and well reasoned positions to this question. Some hold the conviction that st~dent input is an essential and compulsary element in the overall decision-making process. Others argue that extensive student influence is actually an inhibitor to College administration.. We believe that both sides of the argument, in certain instances, hold merit. However, we are of the opinion that, in the case of housing policy' where the consequences of such policies are felt directly by the students themselves, student influence during the formulati~n .of actual housing guidelines is a necessary and, in fact, invaluable component in housing policy c1ecisions. Mr. David Wood, the new Housing Director, has entered a college enVironment in which the students traditionally play a significant role in shaping overall housing polic·y. Regardless of how qualified and talented the Housing Director may be, he can only be as good as is his understanding of housing problems. And, in the case of housing policy, tl}e claim that students lack expertise in administrative matters does not hold merit. Students, as dormitory residents., are best qualified to understand housing difficulties. This is not to say that the expertise and objective vetwpoint of a professional administrator is not required. We have not and will not assert such a claim. But, similarly, an administrator cannot do without the first hand knowledge of the dormitory resident himself. Such a claim would equally be , without question, a foolish one. · The Housing Committee is th.e communicatio~s . mediqm by which the student voice is heard. It is essential,\therefore that Mr. Wood be more receptive to the opinions and suggestions of the students of that committee. It is our belief that, . should the new Housing Director continue to follow the path set in tne last few weeks, Union College will be in deep trouble. Nevertheless the poor conditions in many of the dormitories nor the apparent lack of organization inherent in general housing policy can singularly be attributed to Mr. Wood. The difficulties apparent in the Housing Office stem basically from a lack of adequate funding and a lack of continuity in leadership. Nonetheless; if. these conditions are to improve, the cooperation between the students and administrators of housing policy must first improve. This task, we believe, must now fall upon the shoulders of Mr. Wood. We hope that as the present year unfolds, Mr. Wood will improve his working relationship with the Housing Committee. Then, perhaps, the Housing Office can progress in a more constructive and responsive direction. \ -Correction- In the Coucordlensls story \Picasso Enters The lJ Ilion\ it was incorrectly reported tnat 100:art books were donated by Mrs. Baker. The cocrect figure was 300 books~ The Picasso portrait's correct title is \Two Women.\ ~,tlDD lfv I ~I a'·# :Sy.. ..... \t . C!Ionrnr 17 ::t '{r-31~' 95 httnsts ro~-::t.f.c~. . Editors-in-chief Production Manager News Editors Layout Editor Feature Editors Associate Editor Classified Editor Arts Editor Environs 1 s1~rbz Editor Editor Subscription Editors Calendar Editor Fine Lines Editor Staff 4,-llLJ.;-;. · · 'l'llic:-r\'\ . DavidSchmertz, David nu1Jm1 Debbe DarnrelUI Jim Davls, Sue n .. ·-\'~od Danny Wo'inilc)werl Roslyn Stone, J)onna cr.eele~vl MattNagorsky Terri Moran Steve Monosson Lisa V oerman, Eileen Kanter . Tom Buiocchi Cary Feuerman Ke!ll Marks, Valerie J Melissa Cragin JanDeDeka Alissa Sebagnn, Marty Dolan Photo Staff Doug Rosenfeld, Rachel Mandel, Susan Marr Jon Axel, SteveGeller, Pat Wright, • (Dwight Pakan, Richard Sher Larry Fallek, Dale Sponaog,Ie, Darrel Seife, Susan Pava, Jenifer Aronoff, Sharon Moss Oplnlo~J: A Lack of Diplomacy ro the Editors:. This year, students returning to the ilonns were appalled to find dorm conditions in an in- creasingly dilapidated state. Students feel that the repajrs, replacement and refurbishing necessary were not attended to adequately. One can observe on campus a growing diss.atisfaction with the new Hou$ing Director, Dave Wood. Student Ho1,1sing ·Committee members, when questioned, attributed the growing· ill will to his seeming lack of diplomacy. Students, when. approaching him with individual compfiiints, perceive a basic hostility on Wood's part when dealing with students. Wood often advises students to pick up the paintbrushes themselves, if they are looking for results, in the near future. Students willingly accept the task of' decorating individual rooms each year, but expect the College to provide liveable common facilities. Typical complaints are. dingy halls and lowtges, sadly in need of a fresp coat of paint (particularly Fox and Davidson). ·Poorly-lit Iom1ges in dire need of ad- ditional furniture, dirty win- dows, filthy .hallways and broken fixtures are other problems. Inevitably, these conditions will ultimately show their· ef- fects in the Admissions Office as prospective students view the dorms. When students are accepted at more than one college, housing facilities are one of the determining factors in. their decision. Unless im- mediate steps are. pursued to rectify the situation., Union will suffer in an increasingly competitive market for.· ap- plicants. · . . According to Dave Wood.; \ statistics indicate that the average student spends .95 per \ cent of his or her time either in his or her room or in the library. Students express the sentiment that this should be taken into account by the administration when setting priorities. Last year the housing budget was Chopped to a mere $10,000 only enough to cover minimum operating costs, This year's budget has been substantially increased, yet students argue that visible change will be difficult to achieve ,with such limited f1mds. . Housing Committee members expressect a concern that if conditions do not improve in the very near future, and if the Oirector of Housing does not develop a better rapport with the student body, an increasing number of students will· decide to move off campus. The far- reaching effects . of such .an exodus would 'be disastrous for the College. .. Signtld, Names withheld . upon request Men's Cor The M perform Celebrati4 Schubert' Octobe-r Chapel. 1 ThiS COJ Wl\1HT•T' stereo \: sister St8 Nov em be wHl marll television PBS stati The p1 selectien ''Manner feature ~ Jerry H~ Blait_ '79. Morely,. < Johannes sung. Betty A the fine~ America, chestral:: Bernstein Philhanr appeared Leinsdorf Tenor graduate· and the 1 and ·has ~ different George OJ Olinois 01 . Mitche: soloist fo1 senior po: He has formal im and has musica1s; and Dolls. '\South I Fantastik. heavy i Mouneba brother a The GlE similar p1 spring in' City, anc Museum sity. The • was par1 Festival ' probably gathering the Unitec Fo byMt: At a mE marred t anddeviat the Stud reportsfr< committe1 Afterap t . ' mee mgs was unde1 validity o action. At amendrne the Stude approved seq\lentlyl between procedure Laws and ConStitUti• Feldma

Page 2 CONCORDIENSIS~ October $6~ 19\18 Editorials Housing Discord The degree of student influence acceptable in the formation of administrative decision-making has long been a prevalent issue at Union College. Should student input be advisory or legislative in nature? No doubt, there are two sound and weU reasoned positions to this question. Some hoid the conviction that student input is an essential and compulsary element in the overall decision-making process. Others argue that extensive student influence is ae:.tually an inhibitor to College administration. We believe that both sides of the argument, in certain instances, hold merit. However, we are of the opinion that, in the case of housing policy, where the consequences of such policies are felt directly by the students themselves, student influence during the formulation of actual housing guidelines is a necessary and, in fact, invaluable component in housing policy decisions. Mr. David Wood, the new Housing Director, has entered a college environment in which the students traditionally play a significant role in shaping overall housing policy. Regardless of how qualified and talented the Housing Director may be, he can only be as good as is his understanding of housing problems. And, in the case of housing policy, tl).e claim that students lack expertise in administrative matters does not hold merit. Students, as dormitory residents, are best qualified to understand housing difficulties. This is not to say that the expertise and objective veiwpoint of a professional administrator is not required. We have not and will not assert such a claim. But, similarly, an administrator cannot do without the first hand knowledge of the dormitory resident himself. Such a claim would equally be, without question, a foolish one. The Housing Committee is the communications medium by which the student voice is heard. It is essential,lherefore, that Mr. Wood be more receptive to the opinions and suggestions of the students of that committee. It is our belief that, should the new Housing Director continue to follow the path set in the last few weeks, Union College will be in deep trouble. Nevertheless the poor conditions in many of the dormitories nor the apparent lack of organization inherent in general housing policy can singularly be attributed to Mr. Wood. The difficulties apparent in the Housing Office stem basically from a lack of adequate funding and a lack of continuity in leadership. Nonetheless, if these conditions are to improve, the cooperation between the students and administrators of housing policy must first improve. This task, we believe, must now fall upon the shoulders of Mr. Wood. We hope that as the present year unfolds, Mr. Wood will improve his working relationship with the Housing Committee. Then, perhaps, the Housing Office can progress in a more constructive and responsive direction. -Correction- In the Concordiensis story \Picasso Enters The Union\ it was incorrectly reported that 100.· art books were donated by Mrs. Baker. The correct figure was 300 books. The Picasso portrait's correct title is \Two Women.\ C!tnnr.nr Editors-in-Chief Production Manager News Editors Layout Editor Feature Editors Associate Editor Classified Editor Arts Editor Environs Sports Editor Photo Editor Subscription Editors Calendar Editor Fine Lines Editor ,u>c ,,.. ~Id'·· .:Sr;--~ 17 t ~!): 95 ikir~sis r-o~'(!,~ .. -/tL~-:. \\'£C\T.U\' David Schmertz, David Rubin Debbe Damrell Jim Davis, Sue Barnhart Danny Woinilower Roslyn Stone, Ponna Creeley Matt Nagorsky Terri Moran Steve Monosson Lisa Voerman, Eileen Kanter Tom Buiocchi Cary Feuermart Ken Marks, Valerie Juster Melissa Cragin JanDeDeka Staff Photo Staff Business Staff Alissa Scbagrin, Marty Dolan Doug Rosenfeld, Rachel Mandel, Susan Marr Jon Axel, Steve Geller, Pat Wright, Dwight Pakan, RichardSher Larry Fallek, Dale Sponaugle, Darrel Seife, Susan Pava, Jenifer Aronoff, Sharon Moss Opinion: A Lack of Diplomacy fo the Editors: This year, students returning to the aorms were appalled to find dorm conditions in an in- creasingly dilapidated state. Students feel that the repairs, replacement and refurbishing necessary were not attended to adequately. One can observe OH ca~npus a growing dissatisfaction with the Hew Housing Director, Dave Wood. Student Housing Committee members, when questioned, attributed the growing ill will to his seeming lack of diplomacy. Students, when approaching him with individual complaints, perceive a basic hostHity OH Wood's part when dealing with students. Wood often advises students to pick up the paintbrushes themselves, if they are looking for results in the near future. Students willingly accept the task of decorating individual rooms each year, but expect the College to provide liveable ' . . . . . . . . . - . h~ur· ·of- fr~e- • . ·(lu~mg . particularly boring cla~s, ' I tbougbt that perhaps the: readers of your paper would be interesteq in m.y adventures with the Union College business· office. As many of the least blessed of the students here know, a student loan check must be co-signed by the college before it ean be used. Here at Union, this service is handled . by tihe busines.s· office;. Fortunately, this office has , the use of an Ultra-high-speed modern Bunt:Uughs Gao5 digital ct).JllpUt!!)r; I have had con~ siderable c;ontact with this machille and· tbe machine it r~placed~ .,.,_ .... ~ .,.,.•·'\!~x~·P· common facilities. Typical complaints are dingy naUs and lounges, sadly in need of a fresh coat of paint (particularly Fox and Davidson). Poorly-lit lounges in dire need of ad- ditional furniture, dirty win- dows, filthy hallways and broken fixtures are other ~roblems. Inevitably, these conditions will ultimately show their ef- fects in the Admissions Office as prospective students view the dorms. When students are accepted at more than one college, housing facilities are one of the determining factors in their decision. Unless im- mediate steps are pursued to rectify the situation, Union will suffer in an increasingly competitive market for ap- plicants. According to Dave Wood, statistics indicate that the average student spends 95 per · cent of his or her time either in his or her room or in the library. Stuclents express the sentiment that this should be taken into account by the adlninistration when setting priorities. Last year the housing budget was chopped to a mere $10,000 only enoagh t() cover minimtun operating casts. This year's lmdget has been .substantially increased, yet students argue that visible change will be difficult to achieve with such limited fWJds. Housing Committee members expressed a concern that if conditions do not improve in the very near future, and if the Director of Housing does not develop a better rappc:wt with the student body, an -increasing number of students will decide to move off campHs. The far- reaching effects of such an exodus would be disastrous for the College. Signed, Names withheld up<m request ! . Men's Cor The rv perform Celebrati Schubert October Chapel. This cc WMHT-1 stereo ,, sister sL Novemb€ will mar: televisior PBS stat The p se lectior \Manne feature Jerry H Blak '79 Morely, Joha:rme~ sung. Betty l the fine America chestral Bernsteir Philharr appeare1 Leinsdorl Tenor graduate and the and has different George C Illinois 0 Mitche soloist fo senior pc i He has ' formal in I and has musicals and Doll~ \South Fantasm heavy Mouneb~ brother f The Gl similar p spring in City, an Musewn sity. The was par Festival probably gatherin~ the Unite Fa byMt At am marred 1 anddevia the Stu1 reports fr committe After a1 meeting'~ was und~ validity t action. At amendm( the Studt approve< sequently between procedur1 Laws am ConstitutJ ,., ,.,~,,· c: Ill e ~ i IL t 13 t l Feldm;

OONOOBDIENBJS, October ·B6, 1918 Page 3 Men's Glee Ch.Jb; Concert TO- Be Taped The Men's Glee \club will perform a \Sesquicentennial Celebration in Honor of Fr.anz Schubert'' at 8:30 p.m. Friday, October 27, in the Memorial Chapel. Admission is FREE! This concert will be taped by WMHT·TV (Channel 17) for a stereo \simul~cast.'' with its sister station, WMH'F-FM, on November 8 at 10:30 p.m. This wHl mark the Glee Club's first television performance over· a PBS station. The program will include selection-s from Schubert's \Mannerc):J.ore'' and will feature soloists Betty AUen, Jerry Hadley, and Mitchell Blait_ '79. Works by Tbomas.- Morely,. Claude Debussy, and Johannes Brahms will. also be · sung .. This year, the Men's Glee Club has an extremely busy schedule, with three per- formances already behind them. It peformed a special ·concert for the £reshmen during orientation, a \Pops\ Concert including works of Gershwin, Porter, and Bernstein during Homecoming WeekE1nd, and a short. medley at the Community Convocation last weekend. Upcoming engagements include concerts with groups from Smith College, Skidmore College, Wheaton College, and Rutger&- State University. The next on-campus concert of the Men's Glee Club will be November 18 with the Smith College Glee Club in a per- formance of the Bach Magnificat. Union Colleg.e Men's Glee Club will perform this Friday, Oct. 27 at 8:3t;l p.m. in Memorial Chapel. Betty Allen, often considered :the finest m~zzo.soprano in America, has sung as or- chestral soloist under Leonard .Bernstein with the New York Philharmonic and fias also appeared with Stokowski, Leinsdorf, Dorati, and Solti. Student Guard Program Successful Tenor Jerry . Hadley is a graduate of Bradley University and . the University of IJlinois, and has sung in some twenty different roles with the lake George Opera Festival and the nunois Opera Th~atre. . Mitchell Blair, baritone soloist for the Glee Club, is a senior political science major. He has studied voice under formal jnstruction for six years and has had roles in such musicals as \Carousel \Guys _and Dolls,\ \The Apple Tree,\ ''South Pacific,\ ;ind \The Fantastiks. '' Aside from his heavy involvement with the Mounebanks, he is also a brother at Phi Gamma Delta. The Glee Club performed a similar program of music last spring in Town Hall, New York City, and in. the Fogg Art Museum at Harvard Univer- sity. The concert in Cambridge was part of the \Harvard Festival of Men's Choruses,\ probably the most exclusive gathering of male c!JorUses in the United States. by JIM BENTON ln 1972, Mr. Kleinkoff, the Director of Security, started the Student Security Guard Program. The progran't\ is currently headed by SgL Chr:is Chadwick of the Securify Office, with the assistance of junior; Bob _ O'Connor. Currently, forty-five students work on a regular basis, with several substitutes. The program is presently looking for a'Ciditional sub- stitutes. The initial purpose of the program was to announce visitors (male) to the residents of women's dorms. Student guart<l's are now posted at North College and Ridnnond House at ali times. Some guards get quite a lot of grief from the male visitors upon the request of their IDs. Although a time· consuming routine, it is necessary fo·r safety and people should be aware of this. - Student guards also assist with security at the Science :md Engineering complex, checking that aH doors are . ·'Closed at night and reporting any disturbances to the security dispatcher, wbo is always in contact with the regular $ecurity guards. · During school vacation periodS, student patrols are ' used, as well as~ the regular guards. These patrols check that all windows and doors on campus are secure. Sgt. Chadwick commented that these security patrols serve as \another set .of eyes.\ Thes~ patrols have been very suc- cessful in the past in reducing vandalism and theft. In addition, the switchboard is staffed by a student security guard, who P-rovides assistance to callers and notifies the security guards of , any emergencies. They are also responsjble for knowing the activities oa campus (such as movies, concerts, exhibits and sports events) as well as giving directions and information about the location of buildings and places to legally park. One student guard com- mented, \Working at the switchboard is sometimes amusing and other times quite frustrating. Students don't understand the fact that the operator cannot look up nwn- bers within seconds, or connect them to outside lines without paying for the call themselves. On the other hand, some students are very friendly and will talk with you for a while. There are also students who can ' be quite bizarre at times. It is these students who provide the operator with a break from the l,l.SUal 'can you give me the nwnber to. . .' phone call.\ There is a good relationship among the student security staff and the hired security personnel. This is a needed atmosphere to provide maximum efficiency for the security of the school. If you are interested in participating in this program, you will find applications available in the Security Office. MSR Proposals by ROSLYN STONE Presently, two proposals are before the All College Senate concerning the upcoming Middle States Review. The first proposal is to create an ad- ditional drafting committee to study student life. The committee would be the eighth such drafting committee. It would study the various aspects of campus life: dorms, dining facilities, student $en- timent toward faculty, ad- - ministrators, etc. Provost C. William Huntley foresees a few major problems concerning the proposal for an additional committee. The foremost problem is to . find faculty members to serve on the additional body. ForUm Discusses Films, Speakers, Pets Presently, 40 faculty mem- bers are serving on the drafting committees. An additional 32 are on ad hoc (tenure) com- mittees. So relatively few faculty members are available to serve on the proposed student life committee. by MURRAY LEVISON At a meeting Monday night, marred by rambling chatter and deviations from the agenda, the Studtmt Forum heard reports from three of its student committees. After approval of the previous meeting's minutes, a discussion was undertaken regarding the validity of a previous Forum action. At thelast few meetings, amendinents to the By• Laws of the Student Forum had been approved and passed. Sub- sequently, a conflict was found between the amendment procedures wtitten in the . By- Laws and those written in the Constitution of The Student Body. The Forum By-Laws state that an amendment to the By- Laws requires that two-thirds of the members of the Forum present, vote in favor of the amendment. The Constitution states that two-thirds of the Forum can only vote to propose an amendment, and then gives three alternatives for approval. Unfortunately, the requirements for approval (50 per cent of the Student Body participating in a referendum; 50 per cent signing a petition; 10 , per cent of the students atteding . a Town Meeting) seem almost unattainable. Several theories were ad- vanced as to why the conflict Feldm~n and Richards-Union. Student Government in action. . . - ·.. --~- _, \ - existed. The one most likely is that years ago, the Constitution was legitimately amended to allow future amendments to be approved in a much easier fashion. Several officers promised to research the matter. The two Student Trustees reported briefly on the last Trustee meeting. Of importance was the fact that the Institute of Administration. and Management's bylaws were presented for subseguent review. It seems that the lAM is attempting to become much more independent of the College. The trustess also set up 4 committees to study recommendations set forth by the Hazzard Coninlittee Report. · Doug Koch, Chairperson of the Film Committee, then· addressed the Forwn. He ex- plainetl that the Tuesday night fi.lms are not doing well financially. The committee plans to solicit. stu.dent opin\on as to what films should be shown. The poor quality of the sound ·system was mentioned. Koch explained that the College is responsible for the equip- ment, and the college has not chosen to see that better equipment is available. Andy Sandler, Chairperson of the Speakers Forwn, spoke next. He too hoped to be soliciting student opinion on the choice of speakers. There are plans for having topical speakers. in SS016 throughout the year, instead of only having . ' 2 major speakers each term. Jan Carlson, Chairperson of the Traffic and Pet Court, gave the last visiting report. The TPC is responsible for ruling on · appeals of violations of traffic ana pet regulations. The Student Life Committee is evaluating the need for a housing survey. The survey, besides asking if the student wants to live in a double or a suite, will also ask if cooking facilities in the dorm are necessary. The Committee also presented material that must go to th.e College Senate designed to change the administrator and con1rnittee to whom certain other committees report. . The Committee on Com- mittees presented the Con- stitutions of the Frisbee Club and the Stone Boat Club. Both were approved with -funding. A motion to create an ad hoc committee to investigate the. legal rights of college students, after several amendments, was finally tabled. Other items on the agenda were either tabled or postponed. Finally, in a closed session; the Forum approved the selection of Murray Levison and Ivette Mesa to the Admissions Director Search Committee, and of John Tydings to the Matters· Curricular Drafting Committee. The -next· meeting of the Forum is Monday, October 30 at 7:30 in Hale House Dining Room. All meetings are open and students are invited. . Dr. Huntley believes the additional committee proposal will be passed by the senate The second proposal concerns placing st-qdents on these drafting committees. Dr. Huntley said, \As of now, this is up to each committee chairman. I di:>n't think. anyone will object/' Committee chainnen are as follows: Theodore G. Schwarz Ill, associate professor of electrical engineering and computer science-administ- ration; Paula P. Brownlee, dean of faculty--curricular affairs; Jan K. Ludwig, associate professor of philosophy-programs beyond the traditional four years; Joseph A. Maciarello, associate professor of administration and management-campus main- tenance (present and future); J. Richard Shanebrook, professor of mechanical engineering-energy (how to keep the oil bill dowri); Rudy V. Nydegger, assistant professor of political science-- governance. These committees will each prepare reports that will be sent to tbe College boal'd of trustees for approval prior to their presentation to the Middle States Review Committee.

i l OONOORDIE NSISJ October ~6J 1978 Page 3 Men's Glee Club: Concert To Be Taped The Men's Glee Club will perform a \Sesquicentennial Celebrathm in Honor of Franz Schubert\ at 8:30 p.m. Friday, October 27, in the Memorial Chapel. Admission is FREE ! This cor;~cert will be taped by WMHT-TV (.Channel 17) for a stereo \simul-cast\ with its sister station, WMHT-FM, on November 8 at 10:30 p.m. This will mark the Glee Club's first television performance over a PBS station. The program wiU include selections from Schubert's \Mannerchore\ and will feature soloists Betty Allen, Jerry Hadley, and Mitchell Blair .. '79. Works by Thomas Morely, Claude Debussy, and Johanne'l Brahms will also be sung. This year, the Men's Glee Club has an extremely busy schedule, witliJ three per- formances alread:y behind them. It peformed a special concert for the freshmen during orientation, a \Pops\ Omcert inducting w0rks of Gershwin, Porter, and Bernstein muring Homecoming Weekend, and a short medley at th€ Community Convocation last weekend. Upcoming engagemeNts include concerts with groups from Smith College, Skidmore CoHege, Wheaton College, and Rutgers State University. The next on-campus concert of the Men's Glee Club will be November 18 wit:h the Smith Col:Jege Glee Club ill a per- formance of the Bach Magnificat. UnionCol!lege Men's Glee ClubwHI pertorm this Friday, Oct. 27 at 8:30p.m. in Memorial Chapel. Betty AHen, often considered the finest m~zzo-soprano in America, has sung as or- chestral soloist illlder Leonard Bernstein with the New York Philharmonic and has also appeared with Stokowski, Leinsdorf, Dorati, and Solti. Student Guard Program Successful Tenor Jerry Hadley is a graduate 0f Bradley University and the University of Illinois, and has sung in some twenty different roles with the Jake George Opera Festival and the Illinois Opera Theatre. Mitchell Blair, baritone soloist for the Glee Club, is a senior political science major. He has studied voice under formal instruction for six years and has had roles in such musicals as \Carousel \Guys _and Dolls,\ \The Apple Tree,\ \South Pacific,\ and \The Fantastiks.\ Aside from his heavy involvement with the Mounebanks, he is also a brother at Phi Gamma Delta. The Glee Club performed a similar program of music last spring in Town Hall, New York City, and in the Fogg Art Museum at Harvard Univer- sity. The concert in Cambridge was part of the \Harvard Festival of Men's Choruses,\ probably the most exclusive gathering of male choruses in the United States. by JIM BENTON In 1972, Mr. Kleinkoff, the Director of Security, started the Student Security Guard Program. The prograrrt is currently headed by Sgt. Chris Chadwirk of the Security Office, with the assistance of junior, Bob O'Connor. Currently, forty-five students work on a regular basis, with several substitutes. The program is presently looking for additional sub- stitutes. The initial purJlOSe of the program was to announce visitors (male) to the residents of women's do!Tils. Student guards are now posted at North College and Richmond House at all times. Some guards get quite a lot of grief from the male visitors upon the request of their IDs. Although a time- consuming routine, it is necessary fo-r safety and people sho1:1ld be aware of this. Student g1:1ards also assist with security at the Science :md Engineeri11g complex, checking that all doors are closed at night and reporting any disturbances to the .security dispatcher, who is always in contact with the regular security guards. During school vacation periods, student patrols are used, as well as the regular guards. These patrols check that all windows and doors on campus are secure. Sgt. Chadwick commented that these security patrols serve as \another set of eyes.\ These patrols have been very suc- cessful in the past in reducing vandalism and theft. In addition, the switchboard is staffed by a student security guard, who provides assistance to callers and notifies the security guards of .any emergencies. They are also responsible for knowing the activities on campus (such as movies, concerts, exhibits and sports events) as well as giving directions and information about the location of buildings and places to legally park. One student guard com- mented, \Working at the switchboard is sometimes amusing and other times quite frustrating. Students don't understand the fact that the OJ>erator cannot look up num- bers within seconds, or connect th€m to outside lines without paying for the call themselves. On the other hand, some students are very friendly and will talk with yau for a while. There are also students who can be quite bizarre at times. It is these students who provide the operator with a break from the usual 'can you give me the number to .. .' phone call.\ There is a good relationship among the student security staff and the hired security personnel. This is a needed atmosphere to provide maximwn efficiency for the security of the school. If you are interested in participating in this program, you will find applfcations available in the Security Office. MSR Proposals by ROSLYN STONE Presently, two proposals are before the All College Senate concerning the upcoming Middle States Review. The first pror>osal is to create an ad- ditional drafting corrunittee to study student life. The committee would be the eighth such drafting committee. It would study the various aspects of campus life: dorms, dining facilities, student sen- timent toward faculty, ad- ministrators, etc. Provost C. William Huntley foresees a few major problems concerning the proposal for an additional committee. The foremost problem is to find faculty members to serve on the additional body. Forum Discusses Films, Speakers, Pets Presently, 40 faculty mem- bers are serving on the drafting committees. An additional 32 are on ad hoc (tenure) com- mittees. So relatively few faculty members are available to serve on the proposed student life committee. by MURRAY LEVISON At a meeting Monday night, marred by rambling chatter and deviations from the agenda, the Student Forum heard reports from three of its student committees. After approval of the previous meeting's minutes, a discussion was undertaken regarding the validity of a previous Forwn action. At the last few meetings, amendments to the By-Laws of the Student Forum had been approved and passed. Sub- sequently, a conflict was found between the amendment procedures written in the By- Laws and those written in the Constitution of The Student I'' Body. The Forwn By-Laws state that an amendment to the By- Laws requires that two-thirds of the members of the Forwn present; vote in favor of the amendment. The Constitution states that two-thirds of the Forum can only vote to propose an amendment, and then gives three alternatives for approval. Unfortunately, the requirements for approval (50 per cent of the Student Body participating in a refErendum; 50 per cent signing a petition; 10 per cent of the student~ atteding a Town Meeting) seem almost unattainable. Several theories were ad- vanced as to why th€ conflict Feldman and Richards-Union Student Government in action. existed. The one most likely is that years ago, the Constitution was legitimately amended to allow future amendments to be approved in a much easier fashion. Several officers promised to research the matter. The two Student Trustees reported briefly on the last Trustee meeting. Of importance was the fact that the Institute of Administration and Management's bylaws were presented for subsequent review. It seems that the IAM is attempting to become much more independent of the College. The trustess also set up 4 committees to study recommendations set forth by the Hazzard Committee Report. Doug Koch, Chairperson of the Film Committee, then· addressed the Forum. He ex- plained that the Tuesday night films are not doing well financially. The committee plans to solicit student opin~on as to what films should be shown. The poor quality of the sound system was mentioned. Koch ex:plained that the College is responsible for the equip- ment, and the college has not chosen to see that better equipment is available. Andy Sandler, Chairperson of the Speakers Forwn, spoke next. He too hoped to be soliciting student opinion on the choice of speakers. There are plans for having topical speakers in SS016 throughout the year, instead of only having 2 major speakers each term. Jan Carlson, Chairperson of the Traffic and Pet Court, gave the last visiting report. The TPC is responsible for ruling on appeals of violations of traffic and pet regulations. The Student Life Committee is evaluating the need for a housing survey. The survey, besides asking if the student wants to live in a double or a suite, will also ask if cooking facilities in the dorm are necessary. The Committee also presented material that must go to the College Senate designed to change the administrator and committee to whom certain other committees report. The Committee on Com- mittees presented the Con- stitutions of the Frisbee Club and the Stone Boat Club. Both were approved with fWlding. A motion to create an ad hoc committee to investigate the legal rights of college students, after several amendments, was finally tabled. Other items on the agenda were either tabled or postponed. Finally, in a closed session, the Forum approved the selection of Murray Levison and lv€lte Mesa to the Admissions Director Search Committee, and of John Tydings to the Matters Curricular Drafting Committee. 'The · next meeting of the Forum is Monday, October 30 at 7:30 in Hale House Dining Room. All meetings are open and students are invited. Dr. Huntley believes the additional committee proposal will be passed by the senate The second proposal concerns placing students on these drafting committees. Dr. Huntley said, \As of now, this is up to each committee chairman. I don't think anyone will object.\ Committee chairmen are as follows: Theodore G. Schwarz III, associate professor of electrical engineering and computer science-administ- ration; Paula P. Brownlee, dean of faculty--curricular affairs; Jan K. Ludwig, associate professor of philosophy-programs beyond the traditional four years; Joseph A. Maciarello, associate professor of administration and management-campus main- tenance (present and future); J. Richard Shanebrook, professor of mechanical engineering--energy (how to keep the oil bill down) ; Rudy V. Nydegger, assistant professor of political science-- governance. These committees will each prepare reports that will be sent to the College board of trustees for approval prior to their presentation to the Middle States Review Committee.

Page q. OONOORDIENSIS, October $6., 19!8 \ - ·_International Relations Club: , The Forming Of U.S. Foreign Policy Many observers of the in- ternational field have documented how the ·united States has formulated its foreign policy toward specific coWltries as a .function of the mineral resources in those countries .. The world's~ only free supply oftungsten, a crucial mineral in American industry, In Korea was cited as a major motive for • our involvement there. Likewise, the prospect of oil in the South China Sea has been seen as one factor in our in- . volvement in Vietnam. How is this relation of mineral wealth to foreign policy in,_ fluencing our relations abroad today? While we still maintain ties with Korea, there are other situations where other factors have muted the importance of minerals. So far om policy toward Rhodesia and South Africa is not dear and lnconsistant. Rho<iesia, for example, holds chromitun cobalt and lithium in' vast q,uantities. Weighing our needs for these vital minerals versus the civil rights problem has produced - our present state'Qf inaction. In South Africa, our business in~ terests and. mineral needs are · hindering the development of a straight-forward policy as well. Many factors, then, must be considered to make up a cohesive foreign policy package. Mineral rights and civil rights are only two of these. - You are invited to attend all meetings of the International Relations Club or to call Keith .at 346-6025 to express your views and hear the views of othersonmany facets of foreign relations. Sovi,et Delegate Lectures on. SALT by USA DeMARTINO Jay Shupe, present director of admissions, has an~ounced that he wfll be le~ving Union in Jut1e. . ·· In a lecture on nuclear disarmament at Hale House last week, the Soviet delegate at the United Nations, Paul Union's intentions are negotiatable and not ''take it or leave ft\ propositions .. country and the breaking in of · the new administration that have \created obstaales\ in the negotiations. Director Sought · Palazhencko would not detail why Soviet President Breznev by LYNNE GREENBERG The search is now beginning for a new director of adrp.issi()ns here. Jay Shupe, the pres~nt direct()r, has given notice tllat he plans to leave his position at the end of this school year. A search committee has bEen formed but has not yet met. Dean of Students, Robert Kellett, is serving as its chairman. Also on the com- mittee are Ann Seemann, Prof. Joseph Finkelstein, Prof. Phillip Snow, Peter Blankm.an, associate director of public relations' and Prof. Leslie Hull. Two students will also be chosen at a later date. The search has begun with an ad placed in the Chroni«:!le of Higher Education. Dean Kenett has written to about 100 ad- missions' directors at colle~es similar to Union seeking their help. The committee is looking for someone with \a supe1ior record of achievement in college, who has had S()me experience in a college ad- missions office, competence in the supervision of a professi()nal staff, and is familiar with compater applications in the field of college admissioll,' ' according to the \.Chronicle\ ad. A date has not been set for when the new director will be chosen. \We don't want to just fill the job-we want the best person,\ Dean Kellett said. The new director will begin by admitting the Class of 1984. Two problems are arising that the new director will have to handle. First, the number of New York State high school graduates is to be reduced 30 percent from now until 1990. Only 16-18 percent of those will be able to attend college without scholarship aid. The new director of ad· missions will have the problem of interesting the right kind of students in attending Union without lowering the academic standards. Dean Kellett also hopes that the new director will get the alumni more involved in recruiting new students. \Our alumni have an excellent track record,\ he said. \We are searching for a professional with experience, understanding, and proper values,\ explained Dean Kellett. \This is definitely a major appointment.\ · finds the U.S. concessions unacceptable in the Strategic . Arms Limitation Talks, (SALT) .. ·. Instead Palazhencko's lec- ture centered on the general · principles of the Soviet strategy during the recent U.N. Special Session on nuclear dis-ar- mament. \The U.S.S.R. remains constant and firm in its aim to bring a breakthrough on nuclear disarmament without damaging its own security.\ Alcmg with this, PalazheRcko also emphasized that the Soviet Bagels & Lox On Sunday, October 29, Hillel will hold its first Bagels & Lox Brunch of the year in the Kosher Kltchen of Davidson. Th<' brunch will begin at 11 : 00 a.m. and will last untill: 00 p.m. l'he cost for the meal is $1.00 for members and $2.00 for non- members. There will be plenty_ of food so mak:e sure you co~e. All are welcome, Nott Memorial to Become a Bear Pit by DONNA CREELEY Union's Nott Memorial is Uiidergoing another period of interior decorating as it is readied for the performance of TOM PAINE on November 9 through 11 and 15 through 18. This time the Mountebanks and the Drama 12 class will turn the N()tt_ into a bear pit. Tllat was the name given in the eaJ.'ly 1800's to the type of lower-cl~ss travelling inn whieh forms the setting for the play. ~xtensive redecorating of the interior of the theatre 'VIill convert it into ·a setting tllat doesn't distinguish between stage and ap.dience. \The e~­ virorunent for TOM PAINE: IS actually a playground in which the a11dience and performErs mingle,\ says Charles Steckler, arts professor and residEnt stage designer at Union, who is working with Phillip Holbf()()k, theatre technical coordinator, on the new design. The stage design will give ihe impressiPll Qf a barn with. hay, hoists, aQ.q lo'fts~ But to gi~e the feeling of a ''pit\ required by the play, theatre entran<ees have been raised so that ihe audience descends into the interior on what resembles a sweeping circular stairca.se. Audience seating-and acting-- will be interspersed on all :levels of this \staircase.\ The illusions of the TOM PAINE set won't end with the creation of a \bear pit.\ One scene features an \Atlantic crossing,\ accomplished with. the aid of a huge cargo net strung across the theatre; other scenes include a lifesize chess game, a rite of exorcism, a dungeon, and a king's in- vestiture. Tickets for TOM PAINE go on sale Monday, October 30 at the Nott Memorial Box office. Tickets are $.50 .for Union students and $1.50 for faculty and students of other schools for the Wednesday and Thursday performances; and $1.25 and $2.00 for the. Friday and Saturday perfoTmances. General public will be $2.00 and $2.50 respectively. The curtain rises at 8 p.m . .for all shows except Saturdays, when shows will :begin at 7 and 10 p.m. CATALOG of CO-LLEGIATE RESEAR-CH Over 10.0001istings! All subje~ts. Send NOW for this FREE catal·og,, (offer exp~res;Dec 31. 1978) Send to: COLLEGIATE RESEARCH P.O. Box 84396. Los Angeles. CA: 90073 r \' \t ~ • \\' • He said that \the goals of the negotiations are to end production of nuclear weapons, and reduce the existing stock- pile.\ Nuclear security, further negotiations,. and the promise that the U.S.S.R. would never . use nucleal' warfare against those who do not possess such weaponry, were \positive\ obj.ectives,\ according to Palazhenck. · Although he did not disagree with Breznev's statement that · the special session itself was \the start of a good trend\; Palazhencko did state that the actual results of this session were limited. Again, however, he would not .. go into specifics. azconcerning relations between the U.S.S.R and the U.S., ac- cording to Palazhencka, it is the recent political problems of this . Palazhencko maintained that the U.S. has only been \keeping up\ with the arms that the U.S. produces. He added, however, that \there has never been any . actual warfare between the U.S. and the Soviet Union. So if we · approach the problem equally, the chance for detente is good.\ Although Palazhencko believes the actual results of the session were limited, the fact that the session \did not end in total disarray,\ but I. instead managed to \preserve the machinery of the U.N.\ .is favorable. He emphasized that these talks should not,- therefore, be tampered with. Finally, illustrating the seriousness of these · negotiations, Palazhencko recalled that \When dealjng in such sensitive matters, your knees. shak~. '' _ . .. , __ '·\· _. PRA. ·. TT I WHITNEY . - IIIRCRAA GROUP ' A division of UNYTED TECHNOLOGIES will be ' I November 1 to interview candidates for attra(:tive opportunities in HIGH TECHNOLOGY Consult your Placement Office · for degree and field of study requirements - I p F whE sec! sett rest nigl cha: Uni1 M due he a Pell ficiE M Uni res1 staf libr~ actu mis1 St in h can' whe Tl the I $23,( this ficia ,will pass gate M: t :J

' I OONOORDIBNSIS, Octobe,r ~6, 1978 :Page 5 'Pelletiere M~ans Change by ELLEN GREENE Frorn the first week of school, when students tripped over the sec!ll'ity g~te, .at the same time setting off the alarm for taking reserved reading into the all- night study, it was obvious .s.r>me · changes had been made at the _Union Libr;ary. Many ·Of these changes are due to the efforts of the new head librarian, Jean C, Pelletiere. Her .goal is an ef- ficiently t9J1 7 ~accessible library. Ms. PeHetiere believes Union's library has good resources and an excellent staff, but even though the library looks good on paper, in actuality, many of the books are misplaced or missing. . She added, ''there is no point in having a good library if you can't get at the things you need when you need them.\· · Th~ first step to: efficiency in the library was the addition of a' $23,0~0 security system .• As of this term, books, ,must be of- ficially checked out or an alarm , will be activated when students pass through the· new security gates. · Ms. Pelletiere believes that, while 10 years ago students would have been insulted by ~ ·such security measures, today both student and faculity see the necessity for and want the security. She feels .that the system is especially necessary in a graduate school-oriented, competitive campus Uke Union. Another major change in the library was the removal of the -reserved reading desk from the main floor to the basement. · This c,hange was made because of the lack of room, and tremendous strain and traffic at the upstairs desk in past years. The basement reserved- reading desk was planned when the library's all-night study additiQn was added. However, until this year there was ·not sufficient staff to man a· separate . circulation · and reserve desk. · By, economizing available funds, Ms. Pelletiere was able to add 15 extra students to the staff. This increase in help is aim'ed at making library material more accessable to stu'dents. The library also plans to beef;, up and streamline its Position Available· Student to work in Union College · e1ectr;\o-hydroulic fatigue lob. Job involves taking measurements and so,me · maintenance\ and design of 'equipment. Student must be. available through 3-30-80. Hour.ly pay negotiabie. Contact Mike Larsen - 370-6059 , after . .$ p.m. 370·0843. .For .Paralegal Training • Adelphi University's Lawyer's Assistant Prru·u,,m· offers the skills, specialt · and credentials ~hat count in the legal community. ADELPHI HAS THE ONLY PARALEGAL P,RQG~AM IN.,NI:W YORK STA:r:~ THAT IS APPROVED BY THE AMERICAN BAR. ASSOCIATlON. • Specialize in Employee Benefits-Estates, Trusts and Wills-Corporations-Litigation- Real Estate and Mortgages- or become a. G~nerallst. A ...J·-Iph• • Legal Internships ~ · · I • Employment Assistance . · . A. rapresen\t'ative from Adelphi University's..,Lawyer's A_lsistant Program will be at Union Go.Llege on Oct.31.1978 from10:00a.m.to4:00p,m. Contact the 'Placement Office for an individual app~intment or attend _the Question and Answer ..., Opportt.mity for prospective students which will be held from 1 : 00 P • M. to . 2 : () 0 ,:p • M .• . For more information ·, contact the Pfacement Office or the Lawy.er's Assistant Pro11ram, Adelphi University, Garden City, New York, {516) 294-87()0, E~t. 7604 .. ·. · - -.. -· -·. -~- 4:- -. ·. -. For a free brtX;hure abou.tth1s car11er oppOftun(ly call 516/294~8700. Ext 7604·5, or ma1t the-coupon .. b.elow to: Oentet for Career ProQfams. Law~er's Ass1stant .~rogrifln, Adelph1 Untlfersity .. Garden City. CP 55 NewVork115.30. _ .· name~-------\-----'- phone·-· ~----­ address--~------------- C!t9 state z•P'----- Dty P.rogr.-ms . Evening Progrlims • o Spring 1979 . · D Sprfng:$ummer. 'February 12-May 'I · March s.August 3() n Summer 1979 · n Fall, Winter · June H·August 31 · September U·March 20. 1!:)80 D Fall1979 ' September 24;Decelllbet 14 Ade1lph1 Uruvers1ty adm1ts students on the bas's ot,ndiVII:ilial mer~! a net · , color, creed or sex acquisition process, to get more new books faster. · Among other policy changes also in effect is a no-smoking rule for all of the library but the all-night study area below the mezzanine ramp. This is out ·Of concern for the damaging effect cigarette smoke has on the library's older books. Finally, as in the dorms, no pets are permitted in the library. According to Ms. Pelletiere all these adjustments are aimed at getting · \the entire staff engaged in long-term planning, .via goals and objectives exercise, which I believe will result in a logical future for the library.\ c • i u. t ~' A\ ~ If Union's new Head Librarian, Ms. Jean. C. Pelletiere Fencing Club At ~nion by DONNA CREEL.EY Over the past weekend you may have noticed several students who appeared to be celebrating Halloween early by costuming as Darth Vader or Sir Launcelot! Actually, as my curiosity revealed, they were members of the fencing club pJ;acticing their techniques. Fencing began as a form of combat. Over the centuries it became outmoded as a means . of warfare .ar.d it · graduaUy e-volve·d into a form of duelling. Today it is a sport of skill, alertness and fast footwork. It has developed into a popular sport, .particularly in colleges. Union,s Fencing Club was dissolved several years ago and was reformed last spring. It co.nsists of eight returning members and at least 17 students who have rt-cently signed up. Membership is open to any student, With experience beiQg unnecessary. Ron Shelton, the club's president' stated, \Approximately 80 percent of the members start without any experience and usually progress rapidly.\ Memoer.ship is also open to females, with several already involved. The main objective of the Fencing Club is not to compete, but to receive a great deal of satisfaction and enjoyment from fencing. Doug BrU1ll, the co-captain, and Ken Gold, a returning fencer, and Ron, train the members in the various moyements and techniques. They have also been assisted by Professo·r Nye, of the American Studies Department, who has • ,..----..-_\\\ · en .... • 0 had 5 years. previous experience 1n fencing. ~ There are three types of fencing weapons: foil, epee, and sabre. Union's Fencing Club uses foil, a flexible rectangular blade with a blunt point and a bell guard 4.7 inches in diameter. Its maximum overall weight is about 17 ()unces and its overall length is a little over 43 inches. The fencers are equipped with a mask, vest and gloves for protection. The equipment, including foil, cost approximately $85. The equipment being used now was brought by the original club, but the Tax Corrunittee has recently passed the FenCing- Club's budget for the first time since the club's reformation. This will allowfor the purchase of three more c9mplete sets of equip- ment. The club is hoping to compete with other clubs possibly in the winter tenn. This wouldn•t be mandatory, but ,rather for any members interested in gaining the experience. \We are trying to concentrate on getting everyone to a level where they will be able to compete 1 with other schools by the beginning of the winter term,'' said Ron. \'In order to compete, however, we will need to purchase electrical equipment necessary for judging. This creates a slight financial problem . in which we are ]()oking to the Tax Committee for help • .,, rn all types of fencing bouts the object is to touch the op- ponent with the weapon and at the same time prevent him from scoring a touch. The bouts are conducted on a rubber or cork-linoleum strip 6 feet wide and approximately 40 feet long. The bouts are ruled by a jury with one man as director and 2 or 4 others as judges. The rules provide that touches, to be valid, must he maile with. the point lln a target, which in- cludes the front and back of the upJ>Er torso. Strikes made to the arms, head, or lower torso are considered foul, but no penalty isgiven. If b9th fencers are hit simultaneously, the touch iS awarded to the one who has the \right of way,', or was on the offensive just prior to the hit. A winner is declared when one person scores five valid touches (four for women). Roy S. Tinney, an American who devoted many years to teaching tbe sport as a hobby has declared, \Fencing has been and always will be enjoyed by a -highly intellectual minority; .those possessing the moral courage, the self- discipline, the quiet deter- mination required to become ;proficient in a sport that calls .fer the highly .perfect~d techllique of the golfer, the expl()sive energy of the sprinter and the split-second decisions demanded of the boxer and the tennis player.\ Editors Note: The Fencing Club -would like to thank Professor Wilson and Erma Hamilt(m for enabling them to use R<Jori1 202 of the Arts bUilding as their meeting. place. They also encourage anyone interested in finding out more a bout tbe club to either call Ron at 370-6443 or address a note to the Fencing Club at Box 10. FREE DELIVERY ·;::=::=; · I .c • . e .. N ... ·. . •• . 0 ...... ~· .• CD. WITHIN OUR DELIVERY AREA (30 •irtute service) CALL 382 ... 3838 i ~=· ' ·MENU' . 12'' ChHst Piua ...... : ........... $2.75 16\ Cheese Piua .................. $4.0() .12\ Dtl.uu Combo ................. $.4. 55 / OPEN DAILY W' o,tu•e Cilltlba ................. $6.<10 IZ\ WarksPiua ... , ........... , ... SS.<IS 4 p.m. - '1 ..... 16\ Works Piu• .... , .... , ......... $7.60 ADDITIONAL ITEMS- : ·fot 12\ •• of5t Fri. & Sat. fo, 16\ • • 60t 4 p..m. \' 2 ,a,m. Soll•ae• Onio11a Green Peppers. P.,..roni Muah,...,m• •Ground'Beef ilso 10 minute t1ke out Counter Service ,~--------------.;,.. _______________ ,. I I I I I I I I I I t I , I I I I I $1.00 OFF All LARGE PIZZA .............. • Hom Thl~k ·CruSt I GoGd now thru Oct. 29, 1978 \ \. ---\!' .... --~--~-~---·----------- ......

Page 6 arts OONOOBDJENSIS, October $6, .19'18 .r culture ''P· ·· M· · -d · ·. ··. B.· · · d: ~ '' . . re- e s· m- on- age . by TODD MILLER Bryophytic' buzz.heads beware! Not since X\'Ray Spex' classic debut albwn, \Organic Lab Speed Queens,;' have Vinyl addicts been treated to the kind of stereophonic serendipity projected bY Todd Miller's n~w solo extravaganza, \Pre-Meds in Bondage.\ 'f:he record went plat in mh upon the an- nouncement of its release ·in Micr.onesia, Nepal, and Tray, New York; its lyrics are so controversial;. its beat so animalistic; .its rhetoric so obviously drug-induced, that the AMA has referred it to the American Psychiatric Associatien for observation and treatment. usu~l ''acid and blues\ rocker.is ' the overwhelming exultation of mental illness an<;l illlnatural sexual proclivities which seem to form the ,dynamic bulwark ,of Mr. Miller's lyrical delivery. ''Todd's veice,'' as Jerry Garcia once commented, \has all the street pathos of a Springstein. peppered with all the warmth and charisma of a secondhand Hoover Dial-A- Matic.\ And indeed, his gut\ tural vocal riffs during the chorus . 0f ''Humming and Buzzing'' leave no doubt in this reviewer's overmodulated cranium that Todd has captured tne essence of teen delight in just a few well-timed gr.unts. ''I w:ish I were at Oneopta,\ the first cut on the flip side of thi~ musically maloccluded bac~handed tribute to Muddy Waters; The Beatles, .and New. York State GoverilQt Hugh Carey. It is a song of escape, and ultimate degradation. Consider: ''How nice to. ·be at Oneonta-Where life is carefree and sublime-Aindyou can.party when you want to-And cut your classes hl:l.lf.the time.\ But, as we discover at the end of this rollicking rock ·ripOff, Oneonta is not Paradise,. for you still have to 1 ' ••• be edtJcated by the state .. '' It is jubilant in spots; . pointlessly maudlin in-others; and yet, when I first heard it, I could not help btxt sense Mr. Miller's feelings of 'artist,ie frustration. That sense of frustratlon is whipped up to a fren~ied pitch in his title cut (destined to become Is he not man? What distinguishes \Pre- Meds in Bondage'' from the masterwork; is Todd's Continued on page 10 - Beach Boys: Back • ln the Sun by JIM DAVIS If a single rock and roll band ever spoke for a portion of American youth, it is the Beach Boys. Their good time music has given expression for the better part of two decades to pasttimes like sur-fing, cruising and falling in love. . But the group has been in danger of becoming a period piece-a relic of the early and mid 1960s. Their· signature songs-the qnes they play in live- appearances and get requested most--come from this era. Tunes like \California Girls\ and \I Get Around\ have become classics. Finally, last month, the group released an album of origfnal material whose quality is comparable to these legends. The '''M.I.U. Album,'' so named in honor of the Meditation International University, where much of it was recorded, harkens back in style and content to Beach Boys music of a time long past. Most of the album's tracks are original compositions. But two of them, \C!>me _Go With Me\ and \Peggy Sue,\ are reworkings of songs that were - hits in the 1950s. This is the ·same device they used on \15 Big Ones,\ a 1976 release. That album was sup- posed to mark the return of the band., after several years Flamenco GUitarist during which they hadn't recorded anything new and had generally rested on their laurels. But \15 Big Ones\ met with only mixed acclaim precisely because it was seen as being a self repackaging job; an at- . tempt to cash in on past popularity with old songs that were beihg passed off as new. The 4 'I.M.U. Album'! ac- complishes what \15 Big Ones'' set out, but failed, to do. Each of its songs generates real enthusiasm. The boys aren't merely going through the motions here; once again, they're singing about ex- periences common to them- selves and their audience. Starting with \She's Got Rhythm,\ the albwn rocks through · 12 songs-each con- taining the strong vocals and rich harmonies that marked. ' Beacl\.Boys .music of yor. One of the oldies, \Come Go With Me,\ is the next track. To be sure, the. words are hardly original: \I love you, dar lin'.\ But the sQng is made memorable by the way in which it's performed. And even though it's remake, the tune blends in perfectly with the album's tone- -a light, carefree celebration of the joys of being young in America. The same \liolds true · with \Peggy Sue,\ written by Buddy Holly and first recorded in 1957. Nothing's forced, the style is natura}. And this became the first title off the albwn to crack \Billboard's!' Top 100. · \Kona Coast\ is another sure bet to attain a lofty spot in the . Top 100.. It's here that all the elements of the classic Beach Boys' sound come together~ With rich, bouncy vocals and upbeat harmonies and in- strumentals, homage is payed to this \Hawaiian island mecca.\ When the group ·sings they want to ''spend winters on the· Kona CQaSt in Hawaii,\ it sounds authentic. After all, these are the· Beach Boys, and that's where they trace their roots. When they invite the listener to \come along to the islands toqay,\ it's an ap- pealing offer. . That holds true for the whole .-album. The package comes across like a burst of tropical sun. And ·with the loca1 tem- peratures lowering daily on the eve of .another frigid winter, that's good news indeed. The most difficult of all guitar forms is flarnenc() and its world- acclaimed master, Sabicas, will perform his first Albany con- cert on Saturday, November 11th in the Main Theater of the Empire State Plaza (''The Egg\) at 8:15 p.m. The ap- pearance. of Sabicas is being sponsored by R()bert Valgova and the Opera Buffs, a support organization for Capital Artists Opera Comp~ny. Mr. Valgova, himself a professional flamenco guitarist, plays nightly at Albany's Casa Verde Restaurant. In 1937, Sol Hurok sponsored Sabicas' first world tour, which brought him to North and South American and to a command performance before President Roosevelt in the White House. Sabicas did not return to Spain again until 1967 to claim. the prizes he had won years before in absentia. Sabicas has cur- tailed his concert schedule in recent years--he once was tonring 50 weeks annually-and now gives one concert a year in New York City, his home since 1957, and continues his recor- · ding engagements, _ practicing the intricate runs of flamenco and enjoying life as a gypsy. · ,Area· Calendar,-- Tickets for the concert are available at the CGJI1Inunity Box Office, Colonie Center ( 458- 7530); John Keal Music, Albany; Time Center Jewelers, Schenectady; and Miller's Music, Troy. Prices are $18.00 (includes private champagne reception with the artist), $8.75 and $6.75. ,. Sabicas has been ctazzling audiences for years with his phenomenal techniques and creative genius. Combined with ' 4 duende\ (the Spanish word for \soul\), tus music is gypsy magic. Sabicas, 1Jo1·n in Nor- thern Spain, taugllt :pimself to play flamenco mmic when he was five years old. Since then, he has completed more than 50 recorded albums, · performed before presidents~ and royalty all over the world, as well as in thousands of concert halls from New York to Tokyo. When he was 9 years old, Sabicas joined a company of professional namenco singers and dancers, and two years later won a nationwide flamenco guitar contest in Madrid. By the time .he was 20, Sabicas ~as ranked among the best of au flamenco guitarists. ' < Flamenco is thought to have originated in the 15th Century of ~ Spain's history among the Arabic-speaking gypsies, many of whom fled persecution only to encounter it again from the Moors. Loosely translated, flamenco means \persecuted peasant.\ The music-- seomtimes fierey,~but always moving-is.divided into about 60 _ rhythmic and tonal variations. . Each guitarist expands, in- terprets and arranges his own variations. \Flamenco cannot be written ·down,\ explains Sabicas, \and no twa guitarists ever play it the same. Flamenco comes from within ... from the heart and soul, spontaneously.\ Flamenco is truly about the feelings .of life and to hear the great gypsy master perform is an incredible experience. · It is a rare. privilege to have the appearance of Sabicas in the Capital District and . Mr.· Valgova and the Opera Buffs are~ pleased to present this special concert for your en· joyment. Get your tickets early for this stwming evening of exhilarating flamenco music. Mosie Fri., Oct. 27-At RusseU Sage College the Albany Symphony Orchestra will perform in Troy Music, Hall at 8:30 p.m. For more,information call 270-.2344. Sat.,·· Oct. 28-Mark Patton, . the lead guitarist of the Spongy Delights Band, will be per\ forming solo at the Eighth Step Coffee House.- The Eighth Step is at 14 Willett Street in Albany. For info call 434..;1703 after 8 For information call 434-1703 after 8 ·p.m. · Fri., . Oct. 27-28-EBA Con- temporary Dance Theater will perform fou~ dances in the· Chapter House in Albany. The show will l:!egin at 8 .pm. beth nights. For ticket info call 465- 9916 .. Movies Frl., Oct. 27-Did You See That Movie? will show Alan p.m. . Resnais' masterpiece, \Last Mon., Oct. 30--The Troy Year At Marienbad\ at 8 and 10 Chromatics Concert will be held p.m. in Auditorium One, !it 75 in Troy Music Hall. The concert NewScotlalldAve., Albany. For i~ sponsored by Rl!Ssell Sage details caU 436-7371. College, and will begin at 8 p.m. Thurs., ·Nov. 2-Guilderland Wed., Nov 1-Virtuosi di Rorni Central High School will present. win celebrate Vivaldi's 3ooth video artist Ed Emshwiller anG birthday year· ~ith a pe~- some of his recent works in the forman~ at Umon College s school auditorium. The event is Memonal Chapel. The concert being sponsored · by will begin at 8:30p.m. __ VIDEOSOIRITand will begin at Datace Fri., Oct. 2'l._Tbe Eighth Step Coffee House will present a Contra-Dance at ·Emmanuel Baptist Church on State St. The Dance,. featuring the Broken String Band and Ray Well as caller. will begin at 8: 00 p.m. '\ ' <\ \ ·-...... • 6:00 ~.rn. Exhibits This month in SUNY A's Fine Arts bUilding on Washington Ave. in Albany, the scUlpture of David Hayes will be on display until Nov. 1. Gallery hours are: closed Monct,ays; Tue.·Fri. 9-6 p.m.; · Thurs 'til5 p.m.; Sat. and Sun. 1-4 p.m. _ Friday, Oct 20-~At the University Art Gallery at SUNY A is Tenth Street Days, works by N.Y. artists during the 1950's; and recent works from the 1977 Mohawk-Hudson Regional. The exhibit will run through Nov. 21. Gallery hours: Tue.-Fri. 9-5 p.ni.; weekends 1-4 p.m.; , Thursday until 8 p.m. {.,\J Schenectady Arts (:ounci I Presents -· 28th, Saturday--Arts Resources Open To Women- 346-5101-348 State St. Visiting Artist. 29; Sunday-Arts Resources Open To ·Women-346-5101-348 State St. Visiting Artist .29, Sunday--Tri-City Folk Dancers...;3 p.tn.-Mt. Pleasant · H.S.-Canadian Folk Dancers 29, Sunday-K~wanis Club of Niskayuna-~7:30 p.m.--Nisk- ayuna H.S.--Film, \Hiking Through Italy'' 30, Monday--Books Sand-- wiched-In--N oon--C en tral Library-:Sook Review-\Soft Energy _Paths'' [ cu Tc J -Thed; arrived. setting their chi wouldn'! A whole the last hllTigry on at th~ ·with fo momen1 sank his so that 1 -Oh, boy able ton back ~ Coldnes: eome p1 COW wh: give a. f1 to be a The 1 sharp a was thE doggy! Show!\ slapped wrist a11 noDatin didn~t c• Next McDiff1 Betty. , ( F 1 b I '] ) ~ { l: ~ j I j 1 I I ~ 1 J.

CONOORDIENSIS, October !6, 1918 Page '1 cultul) ,I ' . . . . - . . . ·. . . . . - . . . Towri Fairs: Fact Or Fiction? By FRED HEft'D Theday.ofthe fair had finally arrived. Everyone was busy setting up bQoths and stowing their children away so that tney~ wouldn't interfere with things. A whole yeear had passed since the last fair and people were hungry for more of wnat went on at that event. It was recalled ·with fondness that .comical moment when Chatlie Duff sank his teeth into an iron a,pple so that he had to get false ones. -Oh, boy, would Roger Kent be able to m;ake:bis pig say, ''I'll be back soon! \' · again? Sam Coldness thought not, as he had come prepared with a _sterile cow which mooed, \I couldp't give afuck.\ Yes, it was going to be a memorable day. · The gate opened at lO:OO sharp and .old m(!n Yunkster was the first through. '~Yea, doggy! Get me t-o that peep show!\ Old woman Yunkster slapped her husband on the wrist and threatened him with · noDatingGame for a week if he didn't calm down. Next on through were the McDiffle twins, ~ddie and Betty. Y~u could ~lways tell [ w ., ·• them apart if you kept in mind that ·Eddie was the male and Betty was the female. Eddie · also had a vocabulary of ap- proximately 600 words and made .a point to use them all • every day. Betty would often scold, 'jWhy don't you_ learn some new words, you lunkbead! I'm sick and tired -of talking about the 1932 World Series.\ - ''Ah,. snut -up. You eat goat shit.'' Betty felt hemmed in by her- brother's obvious, lack of smarts, but at least he made tasty dinners. The first event of the day was .The_ Horse 'Clean. Hap Bartley won it last year a~ he had gotten all of the brown off -of his for- merly brown horse. This year he was honorary judge, a position of quite· some authority. . \Okay cleaners; are you -ready?'' Everyone nodded in agreement and revved up their sponges. \(Horse cleaner's terminology for ''to saturate the Sponge with moisture) \All right. When I say three, you boys start washing. Now ev.eryone knows there's l'be no turpentine or hydrocholoric acid. That'll make it easier for Glowing darts of light . Punctured the puffy clouds The couple were entertained bY the pink bleeding sky Before sbe couid steal a glance at him The curtain fell and they clapped in fresh darkness A rush of burnt marshmallow air ya. Ahm prou~ to say I did mah horse last year with elbow grease and nothin' else.\ A murmur passed over the crowd. There was some controversy over Bartley's yictol'y as -after the race traces of Janitor in the Drum were discovered in. his deaning solution. In his defense Bartley claimed that someone had put U in afterwards in an attempt to thwart his victory. \Okay on your mark, get set . . . \ It was as everyone had feared. He had forgotten what came after \get set . . . \ The contest would have to be postponed tjll ne:rt year. In between events, a fight had started up and everyone was watching and cheering. Miller Filler cfaimed that George Shffiecker had stolen all of his . freshl)' churned butter and dumped it on Shmecker's wife. Shmecker's wife claimed, in de.fense of her husband, that Sbmecker had dumped butter on her that she herself had Churned. It was a futile plea, for the men were already at it. A left to the chin by Filler! A right to the chest of Shrnecker! A left to the middle by Filler and then finally a swift kick to the groin by Filler (which later became reknowned as the \Filler Killer\) whiCh finished. off the belated butterer. Afterwards, the two men shook hands and Shmecker was eventually able to stand upright and speak normally again. . • Over at the big tent where the canoe race was being held, the McDiffle twins were in the lead as AI Capone (no relation to the infamous ,ganster) was holding off. The rest of the competitors with a long-range bee bee gun. Betty McFiddle had attached a bulletproof shield to the rear of --the canoe to protect against Capone's barrage. \Drat those cursed look alikes have got me foiled.\ Capone knew the race was lost and in true Japanese style, sank his canoe. . t Mt\et the canoe race came the mule toss which was won by Silas Hugoo with. a toss of 3. 75.\ The highlight of the day was the pie-eating contest, which was set to begin in a few moments. At this fai.r, a variation on the who-can-eat-itg first theme was played, as the contestants raced to see who would finish last. Before the race; Mrs: Crust asked if last y-ear's contestants would complete their race so that the new one could begin. Only two were left and they were down to the last crwnb~ Mrs. Cranny cheered her husband on. .. ''Elrod, will yon PLE-E~ EASE finish the race so we can go home. I don't care if you finish secon<l.. The kids miss you and are tired of writing 'pie- eater' as thier father's oc- cupation.\ The other con· testant, taking pity on the man'~ situation, .finished his pie and Cranny was declared cham- pion. Mrs. Cranny asked if ber husband would do the lawn now, and he replied; \Sorry deat, I have to stay and defend my title.\ Seizing the opportunity at hand, the other contestant made a pass at Mrs. Cranny and was invited· back to the house for dinner and fun afterwards. By the end of the day, most everyone felt satisfied and glad that they had come. The place was desert~d now except for a few stragglers and conte~nts. It seemed as though none -of it had never happened \That's a lot of bird seed, mister,\ said the custodian. ''Just look at this crap these folks left all over the place. Goddamn if I volunteer to take· this job .again.\ Disgusted, he began his clean- up and wondered if he could deputize the pie-eaters. Let The ~eek. Speak by ANONYMOUS RUSSIAN title. What inspired you? CUSMONANT MILLER: Nothing,; I don't _ know. Got any Doritos, or To_dd Miller, singer and potato chips, or anything like songwriter tres ordinaire, that? - whose first release, \Pre-Meds C: No. gonna call it \Slime Molds On My Pillow;\ if you play it back- wards at 16 rpm, it'll sound like hippos retching. gave her a sigh , . Unable to grasp the'~autumness of the air his hands fumbled in pen-stained pockets She sighed deeply in Bondage,'' has been soaring MU..LER: That's too bad. I'm J up and down the charts, was pretty munched. ' caught in time for this week's C: I've heard that you're C: Sounds pretty gross. MU..LER: I certainly hope so. Vivaldi, I'm not. C: Do you have \anything else you'd like to add before I burn this tape? An _opulent lea_f mimicked her It .cringed and cracked wrinkles As \its-heaving breath escaped~ The couple trudged to a nearby stand Hot apple cider warmed their f-aces But the vapors escaped him · She dreamed in a leaf-stack of garnet hues : .. hegrasped ~he autumness of the air ... Dormant butterflies came to life ·And a pumpkin moon shone fu.. her eyes Dedicated to Sergio BedrOOJll Eyes , . . ,. Dreamy Stare . . . Ignited in my mind Reflections undefined Dimlned; no longer there. Muscled Figure . . . · Sensuous Body . . . OutJined aga-inst the light Prints left in the night · Shaped; there_ was,nobody. Yielding lips . . . Tender Kiss • . . · Caressed' by the wind of fire Inventions of the mouth's desire Touched; mine against his. Chasing. RainbOw . . . · · · · Drifting -Sllaciow .- . . Calmed with the rain · ·Whispers hide the -pain Silenced; dreams will follow ... -B.A.P. -girl Please send all submissi$)ns for Fine Lines to Box 1388,._ Jan De Deka, Fin~ Lines Editor. (Poems can be anonYn1ous if you want.) · issue by our alert reporter. thinlting of cutting a second CONCORDY: In last week's albwn- Rolling Stone, you told in- MU..LER: Yes, that's right. I'm Mll..LER: Nope. -terview·er J.D. Hammelman that the true essence of music emanates from the kidney, and not the heart. Would you care to elaborate? MILLER: Not really. Uh ... do you have any more of those Freihofer's? ,... C: No; you ate them all. SeriouslY: Todd, you've done a lot of strange things in your lifetime, but I for one have got to . say that \Pre-Meds in Bondage\ surpasses them all. Why did you decide to cut an album? MILLER: No -particular reason. Could you lend me a couple of bucks for dinner? My Pub check hasn't come through yet, but- - c: \Guano Creatures from Potter.\ That''s a pretty daring --- Rathskellar-- . Happy Hour Friday 4-8 p.m. Buy. two ha~burgers and fries, get the third hamburger free. -Pub Happ_y Hour- Free Popcor~ Tuesday & Friday 9:30-10:30 p.m. Union College Social Commitee Presents: [j maaJ[)11. ~~aJ~ AN EVENING OF ' . . E-NTERTAINMENT & DANCING - - ~- 8 to the Bar & Sean Morey October· 27, 1978 -Alumni Gym - s:3o p.m. SEMI - FO·RMAL Tickets Available Through Student Activities $3.50 per person .· ·-1

Page 8 OONOORDIBNSIS, Qctober B6, 19'18 A Talk With Souths-ide Joh,nny by ROSLYN STONE and MICHAEL POLLOCK What did you think of the chapel? \It don't sound too good. I didn't come here for a religious experience. I don't want religion. I just want it to sound good. We played Williams the night before last. It was like a 200 yard echo chamber. We Tom Petty and the Heart- breakers, the Cars . . . Blondie is really good. There's a lot of really good bands now. It was a big jump.'' Do you like them because they . have the Sliffie rythym and blues .influence? · \I don't know why I like them. I just like them because they seem committed to their music much,·even if he isn't a friend .. . you really want him to sue-' ~eed. And if you get .to borrow moneyfromhimbecause he is a friend, then you really want him to succeed.\ Why was there such a Iong delay between the release of the last albwn and this one {Hearts ()f Stone)? \We went into the studio in February. We recorded a lot of things that we did.n 't . . . we. decided that they weren't really what we wanted to do, we started to record songfi and we listened to: them and they just didn't seem right. We had some good songs, but they were too much like the first and second album. There wasn't any progression. It was the same thing and we didn't want to do the same thing.\ Is there going to be more writing done by the people in the group? ''Yeh, Jthink so. Well,. we all contribute though.\ Howdo you survive with that many people in the band? \We don't. We steal from each other. We pla:y cards a lot. I don't know, to tell you the truth. WE! just skin by.\ flow's the new album selling? -.:: Southside Johnny on stage in Memorial Chapel. \Very well. We sold 15,000 ~ copies in the first 3 days. It's the l best we've ever done. And we hope it stays like that for the ~ next year. If we get any kind of :-if~. action off a single, we'll never could have started playing and sat down and heard ourselves finish.\ You once described the music of today as \tired.\ Do you still feel the same way? \I think a lot of the new groups are real exciting. In tbe last 3 years, we've been awfully lucky~ A lot of new groups have come out • • . Elvis Costello, Trustees ••• Continued from page 1 regulations in the future. On the whole, President Auburn's characterization of the campus mood as one . of \watchful waiting\ could be applied to the trustees with equal justice. We are searching for a President and a Director of Admissions. We are about to undergo an· accreditation review in which we will have created the basis for the modification of governance, admissions . policy, and athletics, to name but a few. All of them of course, are of serious concern and a sensitive nature. Moreover, many constituencies of the College are still somewhat wary of one another after two years of internecine conflict. Yet while there is an un- miStakable note of caution, nearly everyone is pleased with the progress made to date., The Union College F lim Committee is looking. f~r suggestions for f.if ms for Winter and Spring terms. Please fist your choices below . and return this form 1o box In the Mailroom. All suggestions · will be considered. · and they try to be as exciting as th~y can.\ Who do you listen to regularly? \~ like Elvis Costello alot.'' What about the future? \For us there is no future.'' Is there any kind of friendly competition between you and Springsteen? .. ./ \I W()uldn't call it friendly. We attack each other with knives, baseball bats . . . there is no competition at all. I don't thirik of it as competition. I certainly don't begrudge him for his success. I think he is the best live act in rock'n roll. I haven't seen anybOdy come close an-d I love his records too, so if you like somebody that • be back to this dump again.'' Are you playing colleges this entire to.tlr? \The last few dates nave· been colleges, but · when we go to Seattle we'll be playing for real people. Actually colleges are great to .play at because the audiences \are really . up~ They come to have a good time. It seems to be · a different at- mosphere at colleges.'' Why do you wear sun glasses in tbe middle of the evening? \Does it bother you? I don't know why t do, I just do.'' Do you have any long range goals'? ! · HockeJ Game to Benefit Achi,les Figure Skating Club and Block U Society UNION VS. COLGATE Saturday, November 4th 8:00 P:M. - Achilles Rink Ticketsgo on s\ale Oct. 21 -.Nov. 411:30 A.M. 11 :0'0 P.M. at Achilles Rink. All Tickets $4.00, - Dutch Hollow Pub Happy Ho1ir every Tues-ay & Friday · 9:30.10:30 All House Drinks 50° free popcorn ' M .. \ '\ I , F·REE. B:EER .. ~. . with every meal • & Saturday nights . 5:00-8:11 . ,.., our iuicr 1feaks * M1ny \\\\ selections to t:ltoost from - \I don't have any long range goal's. l don't like to.tbink that far ahead. Who needs that! I get to play every night. Thqt's all I ever wanted to do. You just keep playin' ! Does it bother you going to new audiences every night? You having to go to them? .. \When we played at the Stone Pony for a year and a half. I got so bored seeing the same faces over and over again. T\ney knew every song we played. Even if we brought In a new song, they'd know it the next night. A new is much a parison 1 {to S(>dngsteen) and questions? \Yeh I think comparisons are stupid, because we don't sound anythiQg alike. But, I am glad· to be his friend. To know someone that gifted and that dedicated is reajly exciting, and inspirational too. He's a very moral man.\ How ma!ly records do you own.? \I've never counted. About ten to twenty thousand.\ · What do you do with them? Spouting aggressive challenge. It brings out the best mine, Gary Towne, Bruce in the band.'' Springsteen's bass player, I force them all on him. He has to What about you and Springsteen take care of them and he has to in the future? put them in alphabetical order \We're going to be married ·in June, but it will be a small ceremony. He's going to gohis way and I'm going to go mine. I wish he'd quit bugging me and making me do all his songs. Just cause he writes more songs than he can put on an albwn, he has to throw them at.me.'' and he has to clean them. So all 'I have to do is pick them ,rip.\ Does your Wife travel with you? \No; she stays at home. She hates traveling.\ Do you have any surrogate wives? \No I don't need that. I get off on stage and after that . . . who cares!, Do you get sick of the com- ' Southside Johnny pointing North. I PREPARE FOR: MCAT ··oaT • LSAT ·~&MIT ____, IRE •liCIT • VAT • SIT flexible P.rour•m• a Hou,. . . nere IS a differetUellt Albany Center ~· ·•· 11 16:1 Delaware 'Ave. .,. · .. 1 'T1. Delmar ' .... phone (518.) 439-81.46 . • · . EDUCA. TIONAL CENTER · TE$T .. REPARATION . I . • • • • SP£CtAus:rs SIHpr tt3e Outsrde N.Y. State Only CALL TOLl FREE: 800·223·1782 Centers In MaJor US Cities Toronto, Puer.to Rico and Luaano, Swltrerlllld \' L b~ one report cotTer Watkh they VI the Gr Watl over H u.s. dl \' .. 0.. . ~ for, a s torythi Drivin~ fell sho Reuten early ir red Fe U.S.G1

Page 8 OONOORDIENSIS, October 26, 19\18 A Talk With Southside Johnny by ROSLYN STONE and MICHAEL POLLOCK What did you think of the chapel? \It don't sound too good. I didn't come here for a religious experience. I don't want religion. I just want it to sound good. We played Williams the night before last. It was like a 200 yard echo chamber. We Tom Petty and the Heart- breakers, the Cars ... Blondie is really good. There's a lot of really good bands now. It was a big jump.\ Do you like them because they have the same rythym and blues influence? · \I don't know why I like them. I just like them because they seem committed to their music much, even if he isn't a friend .. . you really want him to sue- · ceed. And if you get ta borrow money from him because he is a friend, then you really want him to succeed.\ Why was there such a long delay between the release of the last album and this one (Hearts of Stone)? \We went into the studio in February. W.e recorded a iot of things that we didn't ... we decided that they weren't really what we wanted to do, we started to record song~ and we listened to them and they just didn't seem right. We had some good songs, but they were too much like the first and second album. There wasn't any progression. It was the same thing and we didn't want to do the same thing.\ Is there going to be more writing done by the people in the group? \Yeh I think so. Well,. we all contribute though.\ How do you survive with that many people in the hand? \We don't. We steal from each other. We play cards a lot. I don't know, to tell you the truth. We just skin by.\ How's the new albwn selling? ;: Southside Johnny on stage in Memorial Chapel. \Very well. We sold 15,000 ~ copies in the first 3 days. It's the £ best we've ever done. And we hope it stays like that for the ~ next year. If we get any kind of ~ action off a single, we'll never if be back to this dump again.\ could have started pla:ying and sat down and heard ourselves finish.\ You once described the music of today as \tired.\ Do you still feel the same way? \I think a lot of the new groups are real exciting. In the last 3 years, we've been awfully lucky. A lot of new groups have come out • . • Elvis Costello, Trustees ••• Continued from page 1 regulations in the future. On the whole, President Auburn's characterization of the campus mood as one . of \watchful waiting\ could be applied to the trustees with equal justice. We are searching for a President and a Director of Admissions. We are about to undergo an· accreditation review in which we will have created the basis for the modification of governance, admissions policy, and athletics, to name but a few. All of them of course, are of serious concern and a sensitive nature. Moreover, many constituencies of the College are still somewhat wary of one another after two years of internecine conflict. Yet while there is an un- mistakable note of caution, nearly everyone is pleased with the progress made to date .. The Union College Film Committee is looking for suggestions for films for Winter and Spring terms. Please list your choices below and return this form 1o box in the Mailroom. All suggestions . will be considered. .. and they try to be as exciting as they can.\ Who do you listen to regularly? · \L like Elvis Costello alot.\ Are you playing colleges this entire tour? What about the future? \For us there is no future.\ Is there any kind of friendly competition between you and Springsteen? - \I wouldn't call it friendly. We attack each other with knives, baseball bats ... there is no competition at all. I don't thirik of it as competition. I certainly don't begrudge him for his success. I think he is the best live act in rock'n roll. I haven't seen anybody come close and I love his records too, so if you like somebody that \The last few dates have· been colleges, but when we go to Seattle we'll be playing for real people. Actually colleges are great to play at because the audiences ,are really up. They come to have a good time. It seems to be a different at- mosphere at colleges.\ Why do you wear sun glasses in the middle of the evening? \Does it bother you? I don't know why I do, I just do.\ Do you have any long range goals? · Hockey Game to Benefit Achilles Figure Skating Club and Block U Society UNION VS. COLGATE Saturday, November 4th 8:00 P.M. - Achilles Rink Tickets go on sale Oct. 21- _Nov. 4 11:30 A.M. 11:00 P.M. at Achilles Rink. All Tickets $4.00 - Dutch Hollow Pub Happy Hour every Tues~ay & Friday 9:30·10:30 All House Drinks soc free popcorn ' n n- 'r • FREE BEER with every meal Friday & Sclfurday nights 5:00-8:00 Try our iuicy steaks * Monr menu selections to dloose from - \I don't have any long range goals. I don't like to think that far ahead. Whoneeds that! I get to play every night. That's all I ever wanted to do. You just keep playin'! Does it bother you going to new audiences every night? You having to go to them? . ''When we played at the Stone Pony for a year and a half. I got so bored .seeing the same faces over and over again. They knew every song we played. Even if we brought in a new song, they'd know it the next night. A new audience is very much a parison (to Springsteen) and questions? \Yeh I think comparisons are stupid, because we don't sound anything alike. But, I am glad to be his friend. To know someone that gifted and that dedicated is really exciting, and inspirational too. He's a very moral man.\ How many records do you own? \I've never counted. About ten to twenty thousand.\ What do you do with them? ''Play them. I have a friend of Spouting aggressive rendition. challenge. It brings out the best mine, Gary Towne, Bruce in the band.\ Springsteen's bass player~ I force them all on him. He has to What about you and Springsteen take care of them and he has to in the future? put them in alphabetical order \We're going to be married in June, but it will be a small ceremony. He's going to go his way and I'm going to go mine. I wish he'd quit bugging me and making me do all his songs. Just cause he writes more songs than he can put on an album, he has to throw them at.me.\ and he has to clean them. So all I have to do is pick them up.\ Does your wife travel with you? \No; she stays at home. She hates traveling.\ Do you have any surrogate wives? \No I don't need that. I get off on stage and after that . . . who cares! Do you get sick of the com- ' Southside Johnny pointing North. MCAT • ur:Qii~ GMIT .l~ ~ liRE • OCIT • VAT· SIT Flexible Progrema & Hours '111ere IS,. difference ttl AlbanyCenter ~-J.J 163 Delaware Ave. . .,._. . N'TI. Delmar · 111'1 · . phone (518) 439-Sl-46 . EDUCATIONAl. CENTER TEST PREPAAATfON SPECIALISTS SINCE 1938 Outside N.Y. State Only CALL TOLL FREE: 800·223·1782 Centers In MaJor US Cities Toronto, Puerto Rico and Luaano, Switzerland Go L Go Q, j ,.. L L ~ ~ 0 0 f by OnO report~ co:Ver Watki11 they w the Gr. WaUl over 10 U.S.dr ., ' for as tory thi Drivin~ fell sho Reuterr early ir red Fe U.S. Gr

d rs 't n 'N tt d y .t r l [ OO~OORDIENS.IS, October .S6, 19\18 Page 9 ConcOr~ Cove,rs Grand Pr.ix Event by GLENN R. EVERY On October 1, Concordy sent a reporter and a pho_tograph.er to cover tbe U.S. Grand Prtx at Watkins Glen. One we«:>k later they were in Montreal to cover the Grand Prix du. Canada. Watkins Glen: A crowd of over 100,000 turned out to .watch U.S. driver Mario Andretti' s :bid was the fastest in the field but a practice lap accident claimed his number one car. He was able to hold off the charging Reutemann for onlythree laps in his .backup car. Reutemann was never seriously ehi}Henged for the duration of the 200 mile drive around the 3.3 mile cir- cuit. Alan Jones of Australia finished second in his Saudia car and Jody Shecter finished fan violence has reached the sport of .Grand Prix racing, one of the few truly international sports. Ile Notre Dame, Montreal, Canada; Canadian born Gilles Villeneuve drove his Ferrari to victory in the inaugural Grand Prix du Canada at He Notre · Dame. He took over the lead 98 miles into the race When J.P. Jarrier dropped out in his John Player Specia'l Lotus. It wa·s an 11nseasonably cold, blustery Reutemann drove a solid third. The Formula 1 circuit was dominated this year by the Lotus and Ferrari teams and I believe that the same will hold true in 1979. Reuternann will be· giving up his Ferrari next year clay, and this seemed to be the , .,. main concern of the drivers I • ' spoke with before the race. ?-w·.:qrcrN·'\' :te<!etltJy ~· The surprise of the day turn.ed : out tobeJarrier, who placed his ear on the pole position and led for 48 laps. He took the place of the late Ronnie Peterson, who died at Monza this year, and this was OlllY his second Grand ·Prix race of the season. His teammate, Mario Andretti, . tried again to win his record · seventh vi~tory, but feU off the .pace early in the race. Villeneuve was the first Canadian ever to win a Grand Prix, and it was fitting that he did so in his native country. South African Jody Shecter took second in the Walter Wolf car wbile Ferrari teammate Carlos \ .. Q. ~ ,... .. j. ~ 0 :0 f~----------------------------------~ World champion Mario Andretti for. a seventh Grand Prix vic- tory this season. The 1978 World Driving Champion's attempt fell short as Argentinian Carlos Reutemann took over the lead early in the race and piloted his red Ferrari to victory in the U.S. Grand Prix East. Andretti third. The event was marred by the behavior of rowdy fans, who maintained tradition of stealing cars and burning them in the Bog. The incident necessitated the use of tear gas to disperse the violent crowd. It seems that EARN OVER$650 A MONTH RIGHT . SENIOR YEAR • .If you're ajl;lnior or a senior majoring in math; physics or engineering, the Navy has a program you should know about. It's called the Nuclear Propulsion Officer Candidate- Collegiate Program (NUPOC-C for short) and if you qualify, you can earn as much· as $650 a month right through your senior year. Then after 16 weeks o:f Officer Candidate School, you'll receive an additional year of advanced technical education. This would cost you thousands in a civilian school, but in the Navy, we pay you. And at the end of the year of training, you'll receive a $3,000 cash bonus. , It isn't easy. There are fewer than 400 openings and only one of every six applicants will be selected. But if you make -it, you'll have qualified for an elite engineering training program. With unequaled hands-on responsibility1 a $24,000 salary in four years, and gilt-edged qualifications for jobs - in private industry should you decide to leave the Nary later. (But we don't think you'll want to.) , ... As~ your p~acement officer to set up an interview with a Navy representative when he visits the cam_pus on Nov. 2-3, or contact your Navy representative at 518-472-4424 (collect). If_you prefer, send your resume to the Navy Nuclear Officer Program, Code 312-8537, 4015 Wilson Blvd., Arlington, Va. 22203, and a Navy representative will contact you directly. The NUPOC·Collegiate Program. It can do more than help you finish college: it can lead to ap exciting career opportunity. . NAVYOFRCER. · . ·· ; ITS NOT JUST AJOB, .IT'S AN ADVENTURE. to become the teammate of Andretti for Lotus, but the vacant Ferrari spot will be - filled by Jody Shecter. The start of the '79 season will take place at Mt. Fuji, the site of the Japanese Grand Prix.

lS 't n w it td ·y t? It e I .o :o ~r ll \ ? e t ~ 0 OONOORDIENSIS, October 26, 1918 Page 9 Concordy Covers Grand Prix Event by GLENN R. EVERY On October 1, Concordy sent a reporter and a photograph~r to cover the U.S. Grand PriX at Watkins Glen. One wel'k later they were in Montreal to cover the Grand Prix du Canada. Watkins Glen: A crowd of over 100,000 turned out to .watch U.S. driver Mario Andretti's bid was the fastest in the field but a practice lap accident claimed his number one car. He was able to hold eff the charging Reutemann for only three laps in his .backup car. Reutemann was never seriously ch~llenged for the duration of the 200 mile drive around the 3.3 mile cir- cuit. Alan Jones of Australia finished second in his Saudia car and Jody Shecter finished fan violence has reached the sport of .Grand Prix racing, one of the few truly international sports. lie Notre Dame, Montreal, Canada; Canadian born Gilles Reutemann drove a solid third. The Formula 1 circuit was dominated this year by the Lotus and Ferrari teams and I believe that the same will hold true in 1979. Reutemann will be giving up his Ferrari next year to become the teammate of Andretti for Lotus, but the vacant Ferrari spot will be · filled by Jody Shecter. The start of the '79 season will take place at Mt. Fuji, the site of the Japanese Grand Prix. Villeneuve drove his Ferrari to ...... .,..1111•••••••••••••- victory in the inaugural Grand Prix du Canada at Ile Notre Dame. He took over the lead 98 miles into the race when J.P. Jarrier dropped out in his John Player Special Lotus. It was an unseasonably cold, blustery day, and this seemed to be the main concern of the drivers I spoke with before the race. Letters .Attitude' Continued from page 2 In the reeently publicized ·d()rmitory inspections Mr. Wood said that if while he was inspecting a room he found a C(!Oking appliance only a warning would be is~ued and the students would have 1Ultil . the beginning of wint~r term to remove the applianc;e. ··.· lfensf(jn . was-- also ereated · this issue and said it was all right for switches to be made. Is it right to instruct resident advisors to enforce rules that create tension on the floor and then not enforce these rules your~elf? 0 ~L-------------------------------------~ The surprise of the day turned out to be Jarrier, who placed his car on the pole position and led for 48 laps. He took the place of the late Ronnie Peterson, who died at Monza this year, and this was only his second Grand Prix race of the season. His teammate, Mario Andretti, tried again to win his record seventh virtory, but fell off the pace early in the race. VH!eneuve was the first Canadian ever to win a Grand Prix, and it was fitting that he did so in his native country. South African Jody Shecter took second in the Walter Wolf car while Ferrari teammate Carlos petw~en · R..t\. •s and .floor \''m'f!l111bers .. early .in the year . During the evening of Oct. 19th, there was a bomb scare in Fox Dormitory. The fire bell went off causing everyone in the dorm to evacuate the building. However, one room in the building remained .9.fcupied. I refer to tbe FoJ: aparttnent occupied by Mr. Wood and his wif-e, World champion Mario Andretti for. a seventh Grand Prix vic- tory this season. The 1978 World Driving Champion's attempt fell short as Argentinian Carlos Reutemann took over the lead early in the race and piloted his red Ferrari to victory in the U.S. Grand Prix East. Andretti third. The event was marred by the behavior of rowdy fans, who maintained tradition of stealing cars and burning them in the Bog. The incident necessitated the use of tear gas to disperse the violent crowd. It seems that resluent attvis9r~· ~n ..... · · rule that the pe'Ople who ~igned· up for a particular room; rnttst occupy that roQm. · · This ·attitude Of enforcement was ~t direct result of Mr. Wood's nardlitte approach. Laterlte·rev\emed.his stand on EARN OVER $650 A MONTH RIGHT THROUGH YOUR SENIOR If you're a junior or a senior majoring in math, physics or engineering, theN avy has a program you should know about. It's called the Nuclear Propulsion Officer Candidate- Collegiate Program (NUPOC-C for short) and if you qualify, you can earn as much· as $650 a month right through your senior year. Then after 16 weeks of Officer Candidate School, you'll receive an additional year of advanced technical education. This would cost you thousands in a civilian school, but in the Navy, we pay you. And at the end of the year of training, you'll receive a $3,000 cash bonus. It isn't easy. There are fewer than 400 openings and only one of every six applicants will be selected. But if you make it, you'll have qualified for an elite engineering training · program. With unequaled hands-on responsibility, a $24,000 salary in four years, and gilt-edged qualifications for jobs in private industry should you decide to leave the Navy later. (But we don't think you'll want to.) Ask your placement officer to set up an interview with a Navy representative when he visits the campus on Nov. 2-3, or contact your Navy representative at 518-472-4424 (collect). lfyou prefer, send your resume to the Navy Nuclear Officer Program, Code 312-B537, 4015 Wilson Blvd., Arlington, Va. 22203, and a Navy representative will contact you directly. The NUPOC-Collegiate Program. It can do more than help you finish college: it can lead to an exciting career opportunity. NAVY OFFICER. ITS NOT JUST AJOB,.IT'S AN ADVENTURE. , J;t seems that he was en- tertainitlg guests so he decided oot t9 .he~ th.~ alarm. When he was l4ter, ~ked if a fine would be levied _(>ll a student in tbe Sfllne ~>QSition be said yes. .. The eollege commWlitY will not respect a housing director woo adopts .. such a double standard. And without the respect cf tlie students, David Wood will , just be another ineffective director of housing. My advice to hit:n is to either change his attitude or start thinking aoollt wher~ he can find a job next year. Sincerely., · Douglas Spectnr ·Loneli-ness Uear Editors: . My name is John 0. Mendez, Jr., and I am an inmate in Attica State Prison serving a ··.·of si~;to twelve years. I am . w~tl,l_ the hopes that :.-vo'II<ID:iav be able to assist me. . in . nng_It~ .. · ~~ ~. pt!$0ll · place. .is un .. ·~ ·'-~ • .,....... there 'lU!tlMt11t:ed 'frf .l:i~n!'l, .me a l~¢1'f'Ul. wor<l$ . from the · .. , d'tsunshi:rre. ·never writterr a total ('str.ang!er- · befOre~· but I am f(}Mmt'n to the chance. I attended some · .... ....... , ... \''\'' earning 72 credits. 1 sin.eerely · hope that I will receive .a letter from someone that cares. · . Thank ve t·y much for . understanding. tt is :'I:!Ulte·l ry and deeply ap· Sincer~Iy, . JobnO. Mendez, Jr. 77·A·2274 Attica Correctional Facility Box149 Attica, New York, 14011

(- Page 10 BULLETIN BOARD If you're a &_ENIOR and didn't have your PORTRAIT taken, and if you are planning to submit your own photo to · UNiON BOOK, then the DEADLINE is 1'HURSDAY, NOVEMBER 30. It must .be a GOOD PRINT of size 2% x 3% and GLOSSY. If you missed your appointment for a portrait, but would still like to have your portrait taken by a professional photographer, then see Mrs. Marra in the Student Activities Office. The photographer will be here one day in the very near future to take both formals and candids for those of you who forgot before!! Remember, the . DEADLINE for submitting your own photos is NOVEM- BER 30-leave them in the Student Activities Office with Mrs. Marra. Eastman Kodak Summer Employment: There will be a Summer Group Session for swnmer professional pOsitions in the fields of Engineering, Science, Accounting, Business, Computer Science, Marketing and Math majors (students who are com@eting their junior year or at any level of graduate study). Sign up . in the Placement Office on Friday, October 27-The group session will be held in the Placement Office ()n November 17 at 3:30 p.m. Applications are available in the Placement Office. The National Science Foundation is sponsoring Science Careers Workshop for Freshme.{l and Sophomore Women. It is being held at the University of Hartford on Saturday and Sunday, March 31-April 1, 1979. RQom and · board are provided. Those interested in attending should come to the Placement and Career Resources Office to fill out applications. - Pre-registration materials for winter term 1978-79 will be available at the Office of the Registrar, Room 2, Administration Building, beginning Monday, November 13th. Students· are urged to promptly secure their copy of these materials. Students who do not plan to return to Union for the winter term, except for graduating seniors, inust im• mediately give notice of then plans to the Office ofthe Dean of Students. Potential December graduates should inform the Office of the Registrar of their plans to finish their studies at the end of fall term. if they have not already done so. Students should confer with Faculty Advisers during ·the week of November 13-17. Some departments may announce special arrangements for ad- vising. Please be alert for such announcements. epurse requests are due at the Office of the Registrar not later l:han Monday, November 2oth. A ten dollar ($11).00) late fee will be assessed thereafter. WoUld you like to learn the proper steps· to academic . success? The Academic Opportunity Program (AOP) is sponsoring a workshop ·on ''Note-taking,'' \Study MethQds\ and \Approaching Textbooks\ on Tuesday, October 31, 1978. 9-11 a.m. in Social Sciences Bldg., Room 110 · · 1-3 p.m. in Bailey Hall, Room 104 3-5 p.m. in Bailey Hall, Room 104 Committee spots are still open on the Continuing Education Corninitteet ad-hoc OQNOO]lDIEN218,. October 26, 197/J - clas5ifie()s committee on creating a student handbook, ad-hoc committee to examine the role of fraternities and sororities on campus, and a special com- . mittee to work with the Alumni Office to put together a better Homecoming Wee·kend . program. Any student who is . interested in serving on any of these committees should sign the Ad-Hoc List in Student Activities. As well, any student who has signed the Ad~Hoc List should go to Student Activities and designate their preference of committee choices. mere $1.00 admission yoO can enjoy an evening of song, cof- fee, teas, lemonade, donuts, and Irish Coffee! ! Come join us for some great enteFtainment and good food! ·-- .:United Cerebr~I Palsy of Schenectady will hold a Klunker Raffle on St:~turday, Oct. 28, from 10 a.m. to 4 p.m. at the Price Chopper parking lot on Watt St. The prize will be the agency's 1974 station wagon (as · is), hilled as \aristocratic transportation for 50 cents.'' Proceeds from the event will .benefit Clover Patch School and Interested in learning how to Developmental Center, 124 silkscre.r.? The Mountebanks Rosa Rd., Schenectady. have • vited a professional Tickets, at $.50 or .three for $1, silkscreener to come and work are on sale at the center and will · with ar.. interestM students in be available at the raffle -site. 1 · printing posters for Tom Paine. The drawing will be held at 4 Participa~ing students will p.m. and the winner need-not be receiv<> .. ...:redit for their work present. also. Anyone interested should · ...-.....,.__,_-_,_ _____ ~- contact Hope Fabian at 372-7323 · · or Charles Steckler at 370-6204 as soon as possible. Interested in a career in Personnel? There w:ill be a panel discussion with three personnel managers on their specific jobs, backgrounds, etc. on Wed., Nov. 8 at 4:.00. All those who would like to know more . about this exciting field .of work, please sign up in the Placement Office as soon as possible. . Interested in going to Europe Winter Term? Esp. Great Britain-Bike-Hitchhike--Carm• Whatever. Try a leave of absence. I am looking· for a traveling partner. Box 0682. CAMPUS CALENDAR ATTENTION: THERE WILL BE NO CABARET THIS WEEK ... (but Cabaret will resume next week on Thursday) Curling Club organizational meeting and election of officers- -Wed., Nov. 1st, 7:30, Strauss Lounge. - Ichabod Spencer Lecture sponsored by the Psychology Department. Dr. Gordon G. Gallup, Chairman of the SUNY- Albany Psychology Depart- ment, will speak on \Chim- panzees, Self-awareness and Species Identity\ Friday, Oct. 27 at 3:30 p.m. in the Psychology Building, Room 113. Dr. Gallup has received national recognition for the work he will discuss, which challenges the human uniqueness of certain behaviors and argues for the existence of a self concept in chimpanzees. Dr. Gallup will present slides showing his work with chim- panzees at Tulane University. All interested faculty, students, and public are invited to attend. Dr. Ken Iverson,. world- renowned inventor of the computer programming language APL, will speak at Union College at 4:30 p.m. Friday, Oct. 27 in Room 016 of the Social Sciences building. Reservations for a dinner in Iverson's honor at Strauss Lounge, Carnegie Hall can he made by telephonir\g Professor Geoffrey Goldbogen, of Union's computer science department, at 370:6272. The dinner is $6.50 per person. Union College Coffeehouse presents Bill Brinnier & Koala this Saturday, October28 at 8:30 p.m. in the Old Chapel. For a FOR SALE FOR SALE: Women's size 8 ice skates. Like new-hardly used .. If interested, contact Pat. 370-6468. RIDE BOARD Ride needed to St. Lawrence Uqiv. Friday, Oct. 27. Will Share expenses and driving. Contact Todd at 6525. PERSONALS Michele, Hannah & Debbie- great idea we had. . 4-9~59 Have a great weekend! -Alan-Great article we wrote! Pammy M.~I still love you even though you work at Denby's-Ken Jeff C.-Lauren and I are carrying on behind your back! Clare-Please. DON'T stop by! Diana--Have you gotten anything done today, or have you been in the skellar playing? Dave and Irwin-I'm bringing up my Donna Summer Albums! Get down! Boogie·oogie•oogie! Larry, Mike, Rich, Gary, Matt, Jon ... congratulations!- Ken Nancy-the voles miss you and squeak for you always. Party at AD Phi -this weekend, ·· 10 p.m. Be there, aloha. Attention all you kinky dudes out there-Lisa is ready .and waiting. Leslie 0--It's not the thought, it's the gift that counts. Baum-start ordering special silverware and plates for me~ Jill-Omniscience never got anyone a date, sweety. Gull--In the beginning, God created the Heaven and the Earth ... English came later. Gtimper (I mean Steve)- Relayer -is a mean cat, man. Dave S.-Do you really have a white shirt on'? .. - Bruce-Let it rise first next time (the bread 1 rnear'l) . Jo-Go type in traffic. Billy-1 thought the sttipf>er was supposed to strip. Dave-You look stoned and drunk off your gourd! ILY Skeeter-let go of your pickle. W.C.~ Giller Monsters malte gcjod pets. But, do you know how to take care of one? Grisly, Where's your bird been lately? Terry: Toaster, Been lucky lately? (At foos!) Happy Birthday Linda-Val, .Jen and Dana Amy, --Katie, and Susan-- Skeeter--I'm interested in just · · Thanks so much for dinner.- t th . Robin W() mgs ... Bacco--:J wish I were one of the ''originals\ -~-your lithographic. suitemate . To all closet players..,May the · Forsberg be With you always.- V eterans of the g~me: ~--~--~--~~~- JQann...,Do you have change of a soda? JS , · . Dimbles,....here is your per- sonal hav.ing nothing better to say. __ Phyllis--What's his name · .. ? Steve and John-\ How I love · aga_m · them both. \-..Tiger .,..___,. ___ ....._,.. _ _...... ___ ....., Judy.-What happened ·to all Tom W., Beware of the · the towels? conclave. Death, 1nc. ....-----..,....-...--- Jz-What's tbat second name on your mailbox? Jules, Usually the honeymoon. is after the wedding, not the engagement party. Orientation Committee--How . about a New Year's patty?_? 'Pre-;.Med Bondage ~. Continued from page & a collegiate classic), \Pre- Meds in Bondage,'' Over- dubbing and remixing greatly helps this cut; by introducing · · · the song to the sound of shat- ' tering 50-millilitre pipettes, the heroes of the piece-~those frustrated premedicals in · se~rchcof a healthy social outlet- ·gre introduced in _their 'un- natural-habitat,' the Orgo Lab: Guys w,ere synthesizing acid And their tongues looked pretty flaccid; There were benzine rings alJ over the place; I saw this senior chugging grain (Bet he didn't feel flO pain) As he gurgled wheezed, and tried to eat his face. Demonic, yes. But in a funny kind of way, aren't we all in the same metaphoric quagmire of confusion and self-doubt that typifies the whips-and .. ketones attitude of upperclass Bio majors: Perhaps, and then again, perhaps not.; and then 'again, perhaps. The remainder of the album succeeds to varying degrees. \Guano Creatures from Potter\ is trite and commercial, its only redeeming quality being the .impromptu sax improvisations of \Skippy\ Mamrnock, for- merly of Little Onions fame. ''15 Angstrom Lover\ (an upbeat reworking of Mike Stigger's romantic ballad, \Tiny Tina Teppelschmidt\) is a quality goof tune made even goofier by the Teutoni.c trumpet tom- foolerie of Jim ''Stanky\ Gruber-Gruber. ''Blowfish,., and \Do It To A Tuna'' are downright nasty, and some of the lytics to-\Ride Up North\ are so foul that- they almost jeopardized the annual Union- Skidmore Grain Party mixer. \Pre-Meds in Bondage\ is a must-buy for any s_eriously· minded .contemporary jazz-rock aficionado, schizophrenic or not. Af~e:r: listening to the album a scant eight times, it is easy to understand why they're bombing and boogeying in Botswana to the langorous and lascivious lyrics of Todd · . Miller's unbelievably sordid debut album, · \Pre-Meds in Bondage\ (distributed on the Saliva Records label). Place Your Personals In Conc.ordy There~ s no better way to fell people· you fcnow llow you feel about them Just drop them off by Monday in the Student Activities Office or stop by -' the Concordiensis Office (4th floor, Carnegie) - We'll do our best to get them In - The U countrytE meets la ~evin.Scll honors in used a performa; 28-27 on V archrival score of~ Theme~ of Middle! struggle c-o Anyone make su committe1 of the res AD MISS I• Joanna B1 Bill Jenki Mary Ma1 Gary Phil Eileen Th ATHLETI Eric Goid1 Dan Mesc Nancy Shi BOOKS TO Susan Am Mohamed John Hunt CAMPUS James tKlil Ed Strong CAJtEER. Diane Di:M Robyn Kot COLLEGE Robert Col Brian Mar COMMEN( Deb Haidu Ron Shelto Andrea \Fir J.J. Smige: COMMITTJ HQpe Fabil Matt Nago1 STUDENT - .. ;._ Julie Greif1 Li$a Katz ~ Taryn Mer: EDUCATIC Michael Ar Andrew 1 Forum Re~ John Tydin FINANCIAl Pat Falk Tim Hagy Rich Konys ' Madeline B R(_)Slyn Stoll Joe Quinn: Mirabella C Continued 11

The Union College _cross country team split a pair of dual meets last week with senior E:evin Scheuer taking individual honors in botb meets. The squad used a wen rounded team performance to nip Middlebury 28-27 on Wednesday, but fell to archrival RPI on Saturday by a score of 37-23. The meet against the Knights of Middlebury promised to be a struggle for tbe Dutchmen. c-Omm. ·Names Anyone who wo.uld like to make suggestions for these committees should contact one of the respective members. ADMISSIONS· Joanna Bornstein Bill Jenkins Mary Mattimore Gary Philipson· Eileen Thomas ATHLETIC Eric Goidel Dan Mesches Nancy Shideler BOOKSTORE < Susan Ames Mohamed Raihani John Hunt CAMPUS James Klingler Ed Strong CAJtEER PLANNING Diane DiMeo Robyn Kobert COLLEGE RESOURCES Robert Colley Brian Marks COMMENCEMENT Deb Haiduk Ron Shelton Andrea 'Fink J.J. Smigen ... COMMITTEE ON FACULTY HQpe Fabian Matt Nagorsky STtJD~.NT LIJi'E Julie Greifer Li$a Katz (Chairperson) Taryn Merz . - . : ... EDUCATIONAL POLICY Michael Arato Andrew Mitchell (Student Fortun Rep.) · _ John Tydings ,· FINANCIAL AID Pat Falk Tim Hagy Rich Konys ' Madeline Berger R~slyn Stone · · Joe Quinn: Mirabella Cusmariu . LFECTURES, CONCERTS AND ILMS . Kathleen Ponahue Continued next issue -, . OONOORDIENSIS, '.octQber 16, 1918 Page 11 as port~ X-Co~ntry Splits . . I' Middlebury :had won last year's Rhorwasser, tbe team's fifth · meet easily, placing six .runners runner, was needed to wrap up in the top seven, and returned the victory. Rhorwasser, a most of their squad. sophomore from Albany At the' start of the race . Pharmacy, outkicked a pair of k Midd~ebury ruzmers in the final Scneuer immediately too the q_uarter mite. and finish tenth to lead and passed through the pull the meet out. first mile .in '4:45, leading a group of eight r~JI~n~rs thro. ugh a su!r5 :00 mile. By the two mile mark the Div. III AU-American bad broken contact with the rest of the field and . coasted to an ~· uncontested victory il}, 25:45, finishing over . 40 seconds in front of the race runnerup; A pair of Middlebury runners followed Scheuer Q.cross the finish line in second and third place, but then the Dutchmen's' superior depth paid off as Pete Vielkin:d, sophomore Jack Connor and ~ryan Liss finish'ed within 20 seconds .of each other ip fourth, fifth and seventh places respectively. Vielkind's time of 26:37 was his personal best over the school's five mile course and was a major factor in the team's vi~tory. Still, a driving kick by Dave BUILD YOUR OWN Rounqing out the varsity squad for the meet Were Torn Hallenbeck, a transfer from the University of Rochester who finished 12th in 28:01 and Craig Tischler, 18th in~31:35. FreSh· ' man Cathy Johnson won the tbree mile .girl's race in 22:10, finishing four seconds in front of teammate Kathy Lett. Th~ victory was especially gratifying for harrier coach Ted Bick since it assured him of his first winning season in seven , campaigns. In addition, , the team was able to pull the meet out without the services ,of several key personnel. The loss ·of senior Pete Pettit, toe team's second runner, for the remainder of the season with a stress fracture had placed· added pressure on his teama mates to run well. Pettit had been instrumental in the team's early season successes against Siena, Trinity and Oneonta with finishes in the top three and his absence created a major gap in the Dutchmen attack. In ad- dition, injuries to .senior Keith. Silva and sophomore Hugh Walsh weakened the terun's overall depth. The team's lack of depth, combined with ·an emotional letdown after Wednesday's close match, resulted in ar- chrival HPI coasting to an easy 37-23 victory over the host Dutchmen. The drubbing overshadowed strong per- formances by both Kevin Scheuer and sophomore Jack Connor. Scheuer strode to a sur- prisingly easy 26 second victory over nemesis Paul Herbert of RPI, winning in 26:02.2. Connor added a fourth place finish in 26:35 tp keep the.,. meet in con- tention, but then the Troy squad's overall depth prevailed as four Engineer harriers finished between Connor and Pete Vielkind, the team's third finisher. Other Dutchmen placing in the top 20 were Bryan Liss, 12th in 27:55 Tom Hallenbeck, 14th; Tom Kelly, 17th; and sophomore Dave Dreyfuss, 18th: While most of the squad was suffering through a subpar afternoon, Dreyfuss improved his best time by over two minutes with a 34:17 clocking and broke into the team's varsity seven for the first time in two years. The loss to RPI dropped the Dutchmen's final dual meet record to 4-3. On Saturday they travel to Albany to participate in the Albany State Invite and then return home on Nov. 4th to host the State Championships in Central Park. BIG SCBBBN COLOB f'V ' Sporting Events Are An Experience As Exciting As Being There! Movies Are Seen The U'ay They Were Meant To Be Seen!- Pong And Other ll~ideo Games Are More Exiting Thlm Ever! Can Be C:sed With Vid~o Tape Playback Equipment! Simu-lated TV Reception I -. It's Like Having a \Movie Theater\ in Your HQme! AMAZING $90.00 PROJECTOR KIT .now only $29 . .95 Imagine inviting friends to see TV Specials, Movies, Sports, on your Theater Siz~ TV! It's like v.iewing on a movie Sl:.reen·! Everythi.ng takes Oh a whole 'new dimension ... almost makes you feei like you're in the action! Can also ·beused outdoors. converting ~our back yard into an open-air Outdoor Theater! This new invention, gives sharp brilliant TV reception comparable to commercial projector systems costing $2,500 or more. Absolutely SAFE to u~e. No electrical or mechanical connections to TV .. Removes in seconds for regular size viewing. No special aerial required. Projects up to 5 x 6 foot, pictures (7 1 12 Ft. diagonal) on .wall or screen, even in the smallest rooms or apartments .. Best of all; this amazing Projector is really simple and inexpensive to build yourself. Even a 12-year old can do ·it quickly. Enclosed Kit comes complete with unbreakable lifetime guaranteed Precision Lens System \1-:1\ x 17\ illustrated Plans and Specifications and EASY ASSEMBLY instructions. All you supply is only som~ cardboard or Wood for the simple cabinet .. This ProjeCtor can be used with ANY Portable TV set 7\ to 25\ and will enlarge pictures in either Color or Black & White. If you wish, here's an easy way to make money in your s~aretime. Simply assemble and sell these TV Projectors to your friends, neighbors, relatives, etc. Everyone with a Television Set will gl&dly pay you up to $90.00 for each Projector you build. Make up to $70.00 on each easy sale. Your cost . one kit- $29.9'5, two kits· $49.95, five kits- $99.95. ' . . SALES MARKETING Dept. NP·7 P.O. Box 2646 Merced, California 95340 Enclosed is $,:....· ~---- for __.... ___ ..__.,._ Postpaid complete TV P,RQJECTOR. KITS Name Addre~ ~------------------~--------------~----------~----~------------------------ City /State ---------------------------------~-----,.......- Zip---------- Offer expires October 22, 1978

Page 12 OONOORDIENSIS, October 26, .t9i'8 6port5 Volleyball Evens ,Record LeBlanc served six .of her thirty total points (in two matehes) for Unien to go ahead 11-lt The Dutchwomen only surrendered two more p.oints and took the third game 15-10. ... Last Thursday, Union played rf a five game marathon. against ;c Hudson Valley and lost the .!? match by scores of 10-15, 15-12, A 12-15, 15-7 and 13-15. ~ ~ The girls record now stands at t, / On Monday evening, the Union volleyball team travelled to Siena College to compete against Siena and Russell Sage. The first match against rival, Russell Sage started off 011 a promising note as Union took the £irst game by a score o£15-9. The game reflected a totalteam effort with good communication and heads up play. The second game seesawed between the two teams until Sage recovered from a 8-7 deficit · and scored se:ven consecutive points to bring the score to 14~. Union's comeback was halted at 14-11 and Sage scored to win .the game. In the third game, Sage put it all together and won the 5-6. They will be playing New Paltz at home tonight at 7 :.00 in the field house. BE. THERE! Union Volleyballers who are ready to receivE~ a serve are from left to .right: Lynr:1 Le Blanc, Sue Gehrerand Diane Ronson ln front and Jill Thomson in the back line.. · game and match 15-5. · Gridders Bow To Hobart 17-7 · Refusing to be discouraged, the Dutchwomen put their act back together and destroyed Siena in the first game by a score of 15·3. Union played a power game led by the spiking of Diane Roncin, Sheila O'Donnell and Jill Thomson who combined for 15 spikes, including eight aces, four of which were contributed by Sheila. She also had three dinks, one of which was an ace. Siena rallied in the second game and squeezed by 16-14. In the third game Lynn Coming off a near perfect performance against RPI the week before, the Union Grid• ders seemed ready to raise their record above the 500 mark for the first time. in' recent years. Mistakes came back once again to haunt the Dutchmen (2-3), however, as they fun bled five times, had a pWlt blocked and were penalized for roughing the kicker, all of which enabled Hobart College (1-4) to register their first victory of the season by a 17-7 score. The final outcome negated a brilliant effort by- the Union defense which allowed Hobart a mere 124 yards rushing and only 55 yards through the air. ln fact it was the defens_e which set up Unif)ns only score of the- day on a perfectly execJJted punt return. Terry Weber took the first period Hobart punt on his own thirty and followed a wall of Dutchmen blockers 66 yards to the Statesman four yard line. Two plays later halfback Rich Romer slashed over from the Athlete Of The Week The Union varsity soccer team enters this week with a · fine chance of being the first team in Union history to gain an NCAA playoff berth, and one of the major reasons for its suc- cess thus far has been senior forward Pete Handy. Pete, who hails from Rochester, N.Y., ran his season goal total to seven goals last week in a W triumph over Trinity, tying him with John Kovacsforthe team lead in that category, and extending the Dutchmen's record to 6-2. Earlier in .the season, Pete scored the only goal in a tight 1- 0 victory over Hamilton. Hooters -Roll On by DAVID SHAPIRO The soccer team, continuing their winning ways, defeated Trinity College by a scorerof 4-0. In winning their fourth straight game, the Dutchmen took control fronr the outset and never permitted the Bantams of Trinity to get on the track. Union's complete domination is best illustrated in the final statistics. At game's. end the Dutchmen had outshot Trinity 23-7 and had a 14-4 comer kick advantage. Furthflrmore,. the defense, led by the outstanding play of Mike Mulpeter, .made for an easy day'~ work for goalies Doug Crawford' and .~eorge Romas. Union's initial goal came twelve minutes intothe contest when Peter Handy, on a_ neat pass from John Kovacs, deposited the ball into the net. Only .four minutes later, the Dutchmen scored goal number two. This time it was Peter Van Valkenburgh Who beat Trinity goalie Tom Adil. Mter the-intermission, Union once again assumed command of the ballgame. For the first 38 minutes, however, the team was a bit off stride and was · unabJe to capitalize on several clear scoring opportunities. After the game, Coach Magee commented that we were trying to get the fifth goal before· we got our third. The three-year varsity veteran had only praise for his teammates when· asked of his success this year. \The main reason I score so much is because the opposition concentrates so much lin John -(Kovacs) that it leaves me open ·quite a bit.''- \' Kovacs, an earlier-Athlete of the Week, is known for his uncanny quickness and ballhandling, often setting up teammates for shots. Against Trinity, Handy tallied· the first goal of the game on an assist from Kovacs, then scored in the second half on a free kick from Jim Manning. Sandwiched between the goals was an assist to junior Pete Vari Valkenburg. Handy credits tne fine team effort this season to a cohesiveness and frien£lliness. among the players. \Everyone on the team this year is very close, and. that means a lot.\ Fete, whose other activities include part-time studies at Skidmore College and an in- terest in the armed forces, is an ec_onomics-political science major and a brother at Chi Psi. Pete Handy (Number 7) exults after a~otlu!r Unlon'goal. three and Union found them- selves ahead 7.0 as McDonald added the PAT. The Union offense, ineffective throughout most oftbe day, djd manage to sustain a\ drive in the second quarter maneavering their way to the Hobart one yard line~ However, the ·Dut~ chmen lost a golden opportunity to break the game open when their first of .five fumbles was recovered by Hobart in the end zone. Thus, Union led by a slim 7-6 margin at the half. The Sfatesman finally got on the board early in the third quarter when kicker Sean Fazio split the uprights from 3Byq.rds out cutting the Dutchmen lead to 7-3. The play marked the first tilne that the Union defense had been scorecl upon since · the second quarter of the. Colby game, thus snapping a string of eight consecutive qaariers ·without yielding a single point. ~ With the Union offense unable to mount a drive, the Statesmen took the ball and began mar- ching their W!lY downfield deep into Dutchmen territory. The · defense was determined however, as they stopped the Statesmen for a one yard loss three consecutive times inside the Union four. On a fourth and goal from the seven defensive -back Carmen Saginario snared a Hobart fumble, cancelling the Statesmen threat -for the moment. A fumbled punt gave the .ball right 'back to Hobart on the Union -35, and the Garnet defensive unit found themselves with their backs to the wall one~ . again. Hobart failed to get a first down on their first three plays but Union seemed intent on giving them every op- portWlity to score as a roughing the kicker penalty gave _Hobart a first down deep in D!itchmen territory. Finally, the home team was able to make it into , the end zone when third string quarterback Sean Tillis found wide receiver Ralph Larson yvith a nine yard strike for the score. 'Onion then took the ball with 14:55 minutes remaining in the contest and began to drive. Faced with a fourth and short near midfield the Garnet elected to go for it and came up short. The play proved even more damaging as senior quarterback Andy Terranova, 3-15-1 was injured and removed from the ~arne. The Dutchmen defense once again respOnded to the crisis by aausing the Statesmen , to fumble as Bruce Melena scooped up the loose ball. Freshman quarterback Dana Johnston entered the game to see if he could help establish some kind of offensive thrust but his .efforts went for naught as the Hobart defense held firm forcing the Dutchmen to .punt. The kicked was olocked, and the Statesmen once again found themselves with the ball in Union territory. The game had become a defensive struggle, however, and the Garnet def~nsive was once again able to hold. A fine }{obart punt placed Union deep in its own territory, down by a field goal and with only minutes remaining in the contest. ·After driving for one first down the Dutchmen offense continued the comedy of errors fumbling an attempted pitchOut and l'lobart took over on the Union 25. This time. around the Statesmen did finally manage to pllt the ball in the . end zone although they needed a little luck to do it as Tillis rolled around right end on a fourth and roal, was hit, and fumbled the ball into the end zone where it· was ·recovered by a Hobart lineman for the· score. With only two and a half minutes remaining after the score, Johnston was able to move the DutChmen down to the H<ibart 20 hitting on three· of three passing attempts but it wasn't enough as time ran out and Union foW1d themselves on the short end of a 17-7 contest. ./ The normally explosive 9utchmen offense was silent throughout most of the contest, compiling a mere 223 yards in total offense. It was the per- formance of the defense which · kept Union in tile game. Although the entire- unit was outstanding exceptional praise should , go to linebackers Al Hertberg, Ed . Elinski, Ron Plumb, tackle Steve McCarthy and defensive · backs Carmen Saginario and Terry Weber. The loss was particularly harmful for the Dutchmen since they now must travel to face tough, though injury riddled Williams College in the hope of squaring their record at 3 .. 3. The Dutchmen themselves however, may not be at ;fllll sttength as injuries to Terranova and last weeks defensive player of the , week Kevin Kormondy are keeping both players questionable for this Saturdays conlest. voL·l Gl~ The Me: aired Wee over WM and WM performs ''Sesquice in Honor taped last Memorial stereo-' \1 p.m. · The pr Professor directing Men's Gh Betty All~ Mitchell • perfotriic: ttons fro1 nerchore; Mitchell ' 1 Nachth1 Hadley; Betty All• The E Televisio resi>onsib tapes oft unknown specific a be bro:: reasonabl perfotma months I entil•e E likely int~ of the ta1 Europe, progress. National Amsterdc: Betty i velous 1 career bE scholars where sl Leonard ''Jeremi:: Mr. Bei Director Philharm soloist in Conduc has wor Stokowsk OI'mand~ season t such re11 those · Phil a de Detroit .a She h Houston productic Houston, New Y1 triumphe recital o which l Newhous \one oft:

