' - -..Fountkd_ _(Jl_ Union ·college 1877 Vol. 108 Schenectady, N.Y. September 28, 1978 No. 2 Former m~yor, John V. lindsay Photo l)y Jon Axel lindsay . at Union; StUmps for Carey by LISA DeMARTINO John V; Lindsay, former mayor of New York qty; and past .presidential can(lidate, spoke in behalf of Governor Hugh Carey's re-election campaign at the;! students for Carey forum a,t · Memorial Chapelliil:st Saturday ... , .. ·- , .. political ambitions, the former mayor made it clear that he's enj-Qying his cotmtry cabin and . private 'law practice. But he woUld not specify what his future plans are. · . For now, he's occupying. his . time stwnping for Gov. Carey on a CJ!mpai.gn trail that bro~.~t1l~ ~o U~ion. . Fires: Real, Ha.zardous by DAVID SCHMERTZ lri a tragic oecurr-erice Sept. 16, a Union College student, J;.eonard Zelasko, died wnen an early•rnorning fire brake out in his two•story apartment building. . Thetra.gedyis an a}Noo-vivld reminder of hOw real and hazardous apartment fires can be.- Because many Union students rent apartments in old and often poorly maintained buildings, the danger of another tragedy cannot be ignored. . Most rented apartments, because of their age and con~ dition, are particularly su$ceptible to ·fires. Despite bUilding codes th.at · provide some protection for apartment dwellers, the duty of · fire prevention is primarily theirs. By following a munber of basic fundamentals listed below, ~partment owners can reduce the·risk of fire and make prevention a .simple task. ~ENT AN APARTMENT 'TIJAT IS CLEAN AND IN GOJ)D -CONDITION. wiring is bad or the building maintenance inadequate. Three story apartments are. required by law to have more than one exit. This is not the case with apartments on the second floor. . Look for an apartment with more than one exit, pr.eferably with a metal fire escape. An apartment with walls made of sheet rock is much safer and resistent to fire than an apart- ment with panelled walls. Apartments with artificial, or \suspended'' ceilings are ex- tremely dangerous in a fire. Suspended ceilings are highly flammable and often give off toxic gas more dangerous than the smoke from the blaze. All bedrooms should have at least one operable window. The apartment should have doors on all the bedrooms. They are the best protection against smoke and flame. Keeping an apartment clean and in good condition is equally important in redu~ing fire risk. Apartments that are unclean and sloppily kept have a high fire risk. Old papers and other flammable items stored in attics, basements,· and rafters should be thrown out. Most fires occur in older . IN$'r.ALL FIRE :Pll.OTEC'l'ION -buildings- where--the· etectrical ··-DEviCEs · ·- · ·· · . Toxic smoke caused by burning. materials causes more fatalities than actual flames. Because most fires occur during sleeping hours, the in- stallation of smoke detectors is essential protection. Smoke detectors range in price from $10 to $40. An adequate one can be purchased for about $19. Only smoke detectors that are approved by Underwriters Laboratory (UL) should . be purchased. The UL or FM label guarantees that the device has been carefully tested. Smoke detectors ean be installed easily and should be placed near tbe ceiling and in the hallway outside the bedrooms. Fire ladders· should also be installed in all bedrooms. Most fire ladders can be purchased in hardware stores and roll up boxes. They are made for both two- story and three-story dwellings and are made of both rope and metal chains. Chain ladders are better than . rope because rope can 1 1se its strength. Fire ladders should be in all rooms if an occupant is trapped and can1')ot get to a ladder. Continued· on page'lff Lindsay, clearly concerned with New York City's urban plig-ht, found some· time to consider the other issues in Carey~s campaign, including his....case against the proposition 13 fever and stand on the death penalty .• Campus Review Comm-ittee LindSay called New York f:ity a \pressure pot\ with its major problems being the \armies of hustling street people.'' According to him, . the gover- nor's \.get tough\ crime program is a far better deterrent to crime than the death penalty, which he sees as having little effect on criminals.- No More Si~ple Decisions Lindsay also stressed that extreme tax cut programs ap.proved in an increasing nwnber of state and local eleCtions must not spread to - New York State. \Proposition 13 leads to in• flaj;ion,\ argued Lindsay. \It's inevitable.\ He went on to praise the governor's own tax program, calling it more realistic but still generous. Touching on student apathy in government 1 Lindsay· noted, \Students have too mUch going on in their own heads, worrying about their own future,\ to he as politically active as in the past. - In accordance with his statement, only about 50 per· sons attended the lecture. Concerning Gov. Carey's position .Qn state financial aid for college student~, Lindsay_ was not very specific: He did say that he was personally fn favor of aid for private education. \\\hen asked about his own .by JIM DAVIS A recently-released report of an independent review com-_ ~ mittee calls fot the ''develop- ment of understanding and mutual trust\ among the persons and groups at Union for the College to continue to at- tract financial contributions and a high level of students and faculty. the four-person committee. chaired by George W. Hazzard, completed its report to the College~s Board of Trustees June2, after some six months of study. The board released it to the public Sept. 18. In. the report, the committee found that,-- academically, \differences over goals and priorities;' among the four divisions of study here has been \somewhat debilitating.'' · It ·continued, \On-the ad,. ministrative side, the turmoil and· rapi<fturnover of the past two years has .seriously affected the college. Uncertain spheres , of responsibility and authority, lack of internal trust, and weak communication have weakened the ability of adiriinistrators to serve Un1on effectively.\ The committee reported that this problem stems -from the .. -Next Issue: 10/5/78 Wilson speech report . Find out what former British Prime 14inister Harold Wilson said ~ his speech at Memorial Chapel. Plus, his answers to questions t>osed by Concordieosls reporters. ReacUO!l to new administrators , What klnd of job do stud~nts and facUlty members think they're doing? We'll survey the-_mOiXf on, campus. procedure through which ad- ministrative decisions are reached. \Traditionally it stated, \private colleges have gone about their decision-making in simple ways.\ But \this luxury of casualness and simplicity can no longer be afforded/' because Union's staff and facilities have grown to a large and complex level \typical in corporate and governrtlental enterprises.'' _ Decisions must now be made and policies must be \for- mulated and executed\ with \the backing that thoroughly professional staff work and .management provides.\ To achieve this leadership, the committee reconunended a nwnber Qf revisions in the College's administrative policies. Most notable of these was one that the two student and faculty members on the Board of Trustees be stripped of their voting rights. ''This move must be carefully studied a_11d amply discussed in advance,\ the committee noted. But it added that \a basic conflict of interest is created to have . voting members of the board drawn directly from faculty or students.\ However, \there are ways to arrange for such representation by reliance on faculty from some peer institutions and on the election of recent alwnni.\ And non-voting student and faculty participation should be invited. The committee further suggested four specific measures to reorganize and increase the effectiveness of the College administration: ....Creation of the position of · Assistant to the President .for Institutional Research. -Elimination of the office of College provost. Instead, the Vice President for Academic Affairs should be recognized as the senior vice president. -Reformulation of the other '.Continued ou 3 Barbecued dogs, burgers and t:»eer were the far~ and warm temperatures and sunny skies prevailed at Sunday's barbecue , sponsored by the Pan-Hellenic Council at Library Plaza. Members of Union's fraternities and sororities made the preparations tor the event which In- cluded volleyball games-and freshmen got a chance to find out about the college's Greek letfer ·societies. I .. '----·~. l ·1 .. ! • I l { i i r I l

. \ '•' Pages OONOORDIENSIS~ Septetn.ber te{l, 19\18 HousinQI Director David Wood Photo by Pal Wright Housing Codes Enforced ' ' by ROSL YNSTONE Housing Directol.' David Wood released the College's new cooking policy banning almost all cooking in dormitories on Sept. 20. Hot pats, coffee pots and popcorn poppers will be the only electrical appliances permitted. A schedule of fines for ·violations was established and is posted on each floor. A $10 fine per person for the first offense will be levied. Resident Advisers can impose a $25 ~ine for the second offense and, send a letter to offenders' parents. On the third ·offense, charges will be brought before the Conduct-Ombudsman Com- mittee with \strong recom- mendation for heavy fines, confiscation .of equipment and possible involuntary separation from the residence hall or College.'' The administration decided to enforce a ban on cooking when its members realized that in- surers of the ·College would cancel their .policy agreements if they were made fully aware of the cooking situ.atioq. Reaction. to the cooking ban is mixed. Some. students quickly 111ade other ,ar.rangements. Some continue to cook in dorms, in violatio-n of regul.ations. Others also eat. in their roo~s, but are not cooking food. · · Fines have not yet been imposed on v.iolators. Cooking in dorms presents little problem in Richmond, North, South and Webster dormitories, all of which have kitchen facilities.. 'The concern there centers around over .. crowding. West · College, Fox and Davidson Houses have no cooking £acUities a:vailable for students' use. Ttie Hale House meal plan was c~~ated to fill the needs Qf theseindivic;luals. Costpose13 the major obj~<:~!on .fo tJte Hal~ plan, but Wo!_)d ext>l~ined that the per·m~al cost-;$2.80-:-is L·ind.say·· Sp· e.···aks ·on· .. ,P_o·,_ .. f:; ·&·.· G .. · .. a·.·.y .. s·· id~~-}~~t~r;t~~~vrr:~o~~~~i · · ··· · • · causetl~ by· ·'fi've-man·· suites· is · - ' . · ' . .. being q~icl.dy elill}i;Mted. Last \He's a ,superb governor, but I don't think that m()st of the public knows his record.\ Using this message, former New York City mayor Jolm V. Lindsay visited Union Saturday on a campaign swing for Gov. Hugh L. Carey. ments he made on: The death penalty \I would support it if anybody could make. any case that it was a. deterrent to crime. For every problem in this world; there is an immediate, quick solution that is simple-and wrong.\ socioiogica1Iy iftllere is merit in problems~ ~rid .has . tiied:t to. ~ .. ye,r; ~~~:J.Vith ~~. ~9ch suites. ,, jailing users. I don't agree with correct them.'' · . ·- . · ~ .ThlS _yea~ b~gan ~1th . onl~ 12. : t he use of mar· .t'J'uana, but t·he Propos·· ;tioil ~1 9 :feriror~ 1 ~ :· ·: ·.~ ~ ~ • l~~;. .tha)!T :~~e(-~h~~ ·:lleen ~ . \ · \ · ·. · \ . :·. · · . · . ' . · · . ,. · reduced ·to ·orne; ' · ·· ~ jails are full· enough.n . When there IS an AmeriCan .· Wood said ·that five•man : Gay Hberation m1ddle class that pays between suites should b~ eliminated by : . 1 '1t is unacceptable to the $3,000_ and.. ~4,000 for pro~erty tl:ie end·of October,. : . , .: . public that ~ays serve in fire taxes-.they 11 vote for a · · .. · departments and as elementary proposition 13-like bill regar- However, the overall housing: In an interview before his speech here are .some com· Marijuana use ''Society must school teachers. If quiet gay dless of their affiliation-liberal, shortage here has not been , examine people who don't ·bother ~onserv~tive, Democrat or resolved. There. are 1425 anybody want to work and are Republican. New Yorkers can available _living spaces on Sled P·ush St.arts by JIM DAVIS Eight Union seniors and two professors have begWl the push on a specially-designed bobsled they hope will go to. the 1980 Olympic Winter Games in Lake Placid. David G ~Ullman and Dennis N. Bingham, assistant professors ·of mechanical engineering, are supervising seniors· :Pete · Newkirk, Ed Hurley, Jim Hayes, Matt Blum, Lori Chadick, Lori Colligan, Dave Lachtrupp and Art Merryman in designing a bobsled that one of them called the ''first one to be built' from scratch.'' They are aLso helping to select a team to pilot it. Most bobsleds now used are manufactured by two Italian companies. ''They're basically the same,\ Blpm explained. \Teams can make modifactions to fit their specifications.\ The Union project began last spring at the urging of bobsled racer Christopher Cross. Work started during the summ.er with $5,000 from the College's Internal Education FoUilc;iation, which awards funds to students and faculty for inn()vative projects. Those involved -with the project are optimistic. \I think we can build a sled superior to the European ones,\ Cross said. Ullman added that \there's no sense in building a com- petitive sled if you don 10 t have the team to match it. \ So try-outs took place on campus Sept. 18 and 20. About 10 persons took part. in the first session, with some 25 attending the second one. Included in these groups were Union students, and Ct:oss, who hopes to drive the sleds. Contestants were measured in a 50 yard dash, 30 yard sled push and various other strength and endurance-tests. Blum is in charge of the athlete selection and training. He said that a decision will be made soon about how many pers<ms will be selected. ''We hope to haye them racing this winter, qp !n.Lake.Placi&,\ he said;,:The:team will:compete on weekends and train during the week. \I'm going to run them jnto the ground,\ Blum promised about the training sessions. The research group hopes to have an experimental sled completed by the end of this year, allowing it to be used in . races during the coming season. Based on these results, ~he final version of the two and four man sleds will be built next summer. At a meeting Sept. 22, the group presented a report on their progress and plans. It was attended by some 30 persons, including ·representatives of firms that build sled. com- ponents, seniors working on the project and a writing a novel about it. Thos.e present expressed · enthusiasm about both the sled and the chances that the team piloting it wiU reach the Olympics. \I really think we can do it,\ Ullm.an said. \The students know they're working towards a tangible goal and not just trying ·to solve some theoretical problems on paper.\ Blum characterized . this feeling when he added, \We're doing something for this place they'll never forget.\ - Hillel News Once again Hillel, .the Jewish Student Organization, is busy planning a semester of ac- tivities. Among the upcoming events are: Friday October &··Friday night dinner Monday October 16..Succoth Party Sunday October Z~-Brunch Monday N oventber fl.-Movie Thursday Novem.ber 16-· Speaker, Simon Wiesentllal Spaces are still available for upperclassmen interested in the. term abroad program being offered winter term in Israel. There will be an organizational meeting Thursday, Sept. 28 at 4:30 p.m., in room 112 of. the Social Science building for all those interested in the term. Anyone interested in joining or has questions concerning any event please contact Gary Phillipsan, 6758. Interest and participation are what is reqUired to make Hillel 78-79 at Union the most successful yet. productive-are acceptable to a definitely blame this situation campus. This forces a large business-then fine. on the welfare buden, number. of upperclassmen to \There are a lot of them in especially in the New York City li~e off-campus each year. middle management who gp suburbs. The ban on,do_gs, imposedlast their own way, work hard and Cost of campaigns ... · · .spril;lg, is ·\being· strictly en• don't bother anybody. To force \The FCC should take the forced. Dogs ar.e permitted in them on the public is lead from the British and get rid priva~e fraternity house, but unreas~mable. There comes a pf all paid TV corrunerdals. It's none are permitted in dorms. time when you tip it (soCiety) high time to put an end to the In summary, housing issues. too far and everything gets nightmare of high poUtical facing Union this year are not. destroyed.\ - campaign costs, which only new ones. But one at a time, WeHare aild property taxe.s lead to corruption.\ they are being solved. \Property taxes are too high, especially in Westchester· and Nassau counties. ''Why?. Because._ they're )Ufq~ned :PY Jl},e ,c;o~t .()f welfare. \ {)v:er 40 per·· cent i>f· Ni}Sfi;au's, .. :budget is welfare. It- shouldn't :~See~_-:~ta- .aeg.i ~~ ' 1 • '• 1 ~ - .. _ ... • ~· • ·~ ~· _.' ... ·~ • be paid by property taxes or any local levy, but only by the federal · government. It is a national problem. The situation is outrageous! \ Voter apathy \I have spoken to people in counties all over the state, and people just don't seem to care, as shown by the less than 50 per cent turnout on primary elec- tion day. \It's not the politicians' fault. Everyone must recognize the problem. Good people must run for 0 ffice and p.eople must get involved. The alternative is an increasing risk· .pf letting an extreme viewpoint prevail.\ Charges against Carey \Some of them have been true. Politicians .. in high places very easily get isolated. I think the governor is aware of these by GARY DAGASTINE and JULIE ARNOLD The search for a new Union College president .got underway Sept. 15, with the first meeting of the presidential search committee. The committee, appointed by Acting President Norman P. Auburn and Board of T'rtlstees Chairman Richard G. Day Jr., draws its members from several areas of the college. trical Engineering and Com- puter Science department, Prof. l(enneth L. Schick of the Physics department and Prof. Robert V. Wells of the History department. The two stud·ent members of - the committee are senior Steve Richards, and Lisa Katz, a junior. According . to. committee spokesman Huntley, it will follow three routes to find Its chairman, Provost C. nominees. First advertisements William Huntley, and Dean of will be placed in .campus and Faculty Paula P. Brownie!=! are educational· publications~ t h e a d m i. n i .s t r a t i o n ' s Second, unsolicited applications represeptatives. Faculty is Will be. considered. Finally, t~e rep~esented by ~he fo,¥.1: .ctivision .. com~mttee ... members wtll chawmen. Prof. V1rg1ma BuSh.\\'' , constder <;arididates referred by of the arts department, 'Prof. - members . of the Union Edward J. Craig of the Elec- academic commWlity. ~- . ~ Th~ search committee, also composed. of Trustees _Sallie H_ume; · Gerard Neumann, Richard E. Roberts, Peter C. Van Oyck and Al_lliflni . Council President Frank Taormina, will eventually forward their final three or four nominees to the presidential selection com- m!ttee, which will have the final choice. The selection committee will rbe chaired by Dr. Day and will be composed of Trustees Arnold Burns, Samuel Fortenbaugh, Norton Reamer, Augusta A. Schwab, William Vanneck, Arthur Vash and Kenneth Whalen. Final nominees will begin visiting the campus in Decembe~ a·ccording to Provost HWltley. Senior Matt Blum 111ows the whistle and a con- testant iri the trials to pilot a bobsled designed by Union stud~n.ts takes off Sept. 20. · Asked what were the most important qualifications the presidential search committee is looking for, he said, . \a scholar, good administrator; one who likes alumni and football.'' fltloto bY C.ry Feuerman - ta se hi A1 UJ Sl to ac 00 th p(] w~ bel fo ac as .in C(] wi sa w S1 r~ f~ n e: t1 Sl fc c A \ o: tl e lit n p tl c rl tl r c a c \1 p e f: 0 ) s s s I: t J: iJ $ t

een ern no for of the ing ... 12: ,, ~ ~ 425 on to en• in but · not. the ory of a. tee the by ion llie c. the old A. in to \a OONOORDIENSIS, S.eptember 2~, 1918, Page 3 ~~~--------------------~--------~--~--------~----- Kellett: ·co.mmunication by SUSAN BARNHART With a positive attitude taward helping the students he serves, Robert Kellett assumed his job as dean of students here Aug. 1. Dean KeUe1t comes to Union 9fter Serving 13 years at SUNY at Plattsburgh. As for his reasons for coming to Union, Dean Kellett noted the advantage of a smaller student body. In the role of dean, he thinks· he shoulti have op.g port·unity for interaction bet- ween his office and the student body. This gives more occasion for problem ~;~olving, the dean addec.i. He described Union 'students ·as '''intellectually curious, truly interested in enjoying the collegiate e~p.er.ience and willing to' learn for learning's sake., In addition Dean· Kellett feels UniQn's primary purpose is to give students a liberal arts · education. That .c.an serve as a basis for the :formation of a well- rounded individual. Dean Kellett pointed to the Liberal Learning progr.am as a way ~n which Union students would heighten their educational ·experience. He believes the freshman preceptorial· gives students a common basis with which to worlt Intellectually. Discussing tbe lrousing situation he. noted that the housing lottery may not be the best way · to allocate living accomodations. Accordingly, 'he said he is ·considering alter- natives: , There ls a great need, he said, in this and other areas of student life t() find out the true needs of ~udents. About eol)king in· dormitories Dean Kellett affirmed the importance of rnaintaininr safety. \We have been lucky,\ he said. \But we can't rely upon luck.\ · He noted that he has received much cooperation from RSVP, the food service that handles West and Hale dining services, Under a new plan worked 'OUt With the cooperation of campus fraternal organiZations, Union Food Services DiFector Angelo Mazzone. and RSVP, Dean Kellett said any st~dent who wishes to be on a meal plan will be able to do so. The dean and his family are living on . campus in . South College. He descri\bed . this arrapgement as ''beautiful\ and added that li.ving on campus has allowed him ROBERT H. KEL.LETT, new dean of students, explains his plans for the coming year. \A small college like Union should give more opp0rtunity for interaction between students and administrators,\ he said. greater accessibility to ·students. He remarked he is \verv happy to be here.\ Deim Kellett noted that it is up to College students to define their needs to the ad- ministrative· body. Once such needs are identified, steps can be taken, he said, to work out reasonable solutions to problems. The.Amos Tuck School of •Busin.ess ·Administration Th.e Face of the Class o·f '82 Dartmouth College • Hanover, N.H. Men and women seeking EDUCATION FOR MANAGEMENT are invited to discuss the TUCK_MBA with by LEE GLICKMAN The 514 new students of the Class of 1982, bring ~ith them a set of characteristics all their own. Besides the makeup of their geographical distribution, this year's freshman class brings with it tnan,y changes ·from last year's, including an increase in the overall com- petition of getting into Union. . This year, mo~e students applied to Union than in at least the past nine years. Some 3040 students applied for admission this year, with more than 1800 of these applying to a ·liberal arts program. Last -year's applicant pool stood at 2955. Elizabeth Day As.sistant Director of Admissions Tuesday, October 3 Placement Office · . Only 518 of this year's ap- ______________________ __, plicants applied for an - engineering program. However, the final percentage of th()se who enrolled showed engineering majors--31 per cent- to be almost equal in number to social science and humanities majors-33 per cent. This is a substantial increase from last year. The Class of 1982 had average verbal scores nine points lower than the Class of 1981-575 compared to 566. On the other hand, the- mean math score rose from 630 last year to 638 this year. These scores put the freshmen in the 87th percentile among national college students, verbally and the 90th percentile rank mathematiCally. In addition 77 per cent of the 514 freshmen graduated in the top fifth of their high school class. Women comprise 31 per cent of the Class of 1982. This figure is identical to last year;'s. Also stable is the amount of financial aid granted to fresh· men-34 per cent. These 174 students received ~$425,534 through the financial aid office. More than 70 per cent of the Class of 1982 is from New York State. 304 freshmen hail from New York, 60 from Massachusetts, 46 from Con· necticut and 22 from New Jersey. Seventeen statPs and Washington, D.C. are represented in the Class of 1982 though half of these have fewer than three representatives. Birth Control Studied at Union . . . Asked about the lopsided distribution, Director of Admissions Jay Shupe said that Union would maintain its policy of negating geographic location as a criteria for admissions, but added that if there were two students of equal academic stature, and one was from outside the New York area, the admissions committee might be more inclined to give this student an acceptance. Birth control first came into widespread use in the United States during the 1800s. But the reasons why last century's families adopted various methods of birth control are extremely difficult to pinpoint- that simply was not the sort of subject they tended to record for posterity, says Union College historian Robert Wells. Reproduction among American families was \remarkably high\ at the time of the American Reyolution aRd the average family had six to eight children. But birth control \clearly became more common during the firsf half of the '19th century,\ Wells says; and by 1900 the birth rate was only 50 percent of what it had been a century earlier. · A wide vari~ty of methods were available to husbands and. wi.ves during the 1800s, although knowledge about human sexual functions was often sketc1:ly and many methods owed m9re to folklore than to scientific principle. The available choices were disc11ssed in printed pamphlets, books arid in newspaper advertisements for various products; even after the passage of the Comstock Law in 1873, which made it a federal crime to print birth control advice, such information continued to circulate under the guise !)f \health\ or \medicmal\ aids. \It's difficult to get at the reasons why fami}ies started to limit their .families-few people ever record, even in their most personal papers, the reasons they had for adc:>pting. birth control,\ Wells says. Yeflhose personal reasons are highly important, since birth coptrol • Rathskellar Repaired by DOUG ROSENFELD Under the direction of her Manager Angelo Mazzone. maintenance and im ... provements were completed thisswnrner at the Rathskellar. Hazardous wtrmg was cortected, the bathrooms were repaired and reinforced, and the counter 'area was redesigned. New equipment includes a char-broiler to replace the grlll, . a new refrigeration unit for cooling beer and wine,. and a walk•in refrigerator for on- premises storage. This new equipment, eliminates many of the. inef- ficiencies built into the 'Skellar operation. of yeats past. Already, it has made possible a slightly expanded food menu, supply, and bottled beer selection. The repair work, consigned to private contractors in lieu of UColl Maintenance, cost ap- proximately $15,000. This figure includes an equipment cost of $6,880, of which ~$2,700. funded the new walk·in refrigerator. Mazzone said the Rath$kellar board. pa~d two-.thirds of tbe total bill and the College footed the remaining cost .. Amidst the lamentations of upperclassmen over higher prices, Mazzone noted that ''the prices theY (SAGA) · had last Revl.ew ••• Con~fnued f.rotn page.1 three vice presidents' areas of responsibility \to insure con- sistency and clear lines of authority.'' -Definition of the College president as the \chief academic officer\ and not as the \external relations officer.\ The report conclud.ed with a call for individuals and groups at Union to \trust each other, join in rational discourse,· recognize thatthe best efforts of all will be needed,to bring Union College successfully into its third \Century.\ Commenting on the report, Actirrg President Norman P. Auburn called. it a \sound and judicious document,\ but would make no comments on its specific recommendations. were ridiculous. They- (SAGA) f were also losing money steadUy.\ This year's operation offers a new decor, and as Mazzone quipped, \Where else can you get a sandwich for $1.15?\ ·sp_~rts ••• Continued from page 12 the Dutchmen in the game but it was the same tYPe of mistakes and poor field position which haunted the team last year that led to this years def-eat against · the .Bobcats. Four of the Bates scoring drives, in fact, totaled a paultry 93 yards as the Out· chmen consistently dealt the Bobcats scoring opportunity after scoting opportunity. Union, 0.1 meets WPI 0..2 in their home opener this Saturday at Alexander Field. With a potentially unstoppable offense and an improving defense the Dutchmen need· only to· :make a few less errors and the numbers should begin to fall on the positive side of the ledger. \must be seen as the sum of numerous personal decisions by wives and husbands, rather than as the result of some vague social force such as 'ur- banization.' \ But clearly, American families did not wait for the invention of convenieni or ------------- scientifically proven methods. \The awkward, unreliable and. unpleasant choices by which American families could be limited make it clear that motives for practicing family limitations must have been strong, in order for fertility to be. reduced by .50 percent bet· ween 1800 and 1900. u Wells believes the reason is linked to the development of what he calls \the modem personality,., part of a growing movement among individuals to rationally cc;mtrol their lives and t() plan for tbe futme. The \modern personality,\ which alsp places greater value on the dignity and worth of the in• dividual and on the quality of life, contrasts. with ''traditional values viewing life as a series of · accidents beyond their con• troV' Earlier families would have accepted the birth of children as inevitable oc- currences, \rather than as events subject to individual decisions,\ Wells says. G:eorge Lou I lis George Loullis, a member of the Mathematics Department from 1976 to 1978, died, after a brief illness, in Athens, Greece on SWlday, September 24th. Born in Kinshasa, Zaire in 1950. Dr. Loullis lived for a time in Cyprus and then moved to the United States as a teenager. He came to Union in the fall of 1976 after receiving his Ph.D. from Yale_ that spring and his B.A. from CUNY in 1972. He took ill while travelling throughout Europe prior to assuming his new position at the Universjty of Crete in October. The Mathematics Depart- ment is hoping to establish a memorial fWld in George's name. Anyone interested in contributing to this fund should contact Lois Sing at 370-6246. PREPARE FOR: J ~othM MOAT • OAT ·LSIT • GMAT v •• ;Ji . liRE • OCAT • Ill· SAT flj!~Xible Programs &. Houn tJ1aer~ IS a differencetlt Albany Center ~· --H 163 Delaware Ave. · .,. · N. · · Delmar nn P . hone (SlB) 439 _ 8146 EDUCATIONAL CENTER · - TEST PREPARATION ~PEClALISTS SINCE 1938 --Outside N.Y. State Only CALL TOLL FREE: 800·223·1782 Centers In Malo~ US Cities Toronto, Puerto Rico al)rl Lugano •. swltzerland

Page 4 OONOORDIENSJS, SeptemberS~, 1978 --All Around Campu_s~ Asimov lsaac Asimov-scientist, bio- . hemist, teacher, science writer, world-famous author of more than 200 books-spoke to a capacity . crowd Sept. 20 in Unicn's Memorial Chapel on the \probable paths to 2078.\ Asimov's lecture was spon- ~ored by the General Electric Co. His t()pics of conversation ranged from recalling events in Roman history to predicting the outcomes of the future. Asimov said that \one way to look into the future for rational paths is to look into the past.\ He says his science fiction works follow his theme. His speech noted how technological changes directly influence social changes. Asimov predicted that by the year 2078 solutions to worldly problems will be more difficult to solve because the problems will be more involved and complicated. - MARY CATHERINE REHDER New Faces The following full-time ap- pointments to the College faculty have been annowtced: Deborah Ann Allen-visiting assistant professor in psychology Janet S. Anderson-assistant professor in chemistry Clifford W. Brown, Jr.-- visiting assistant professor in political scierfce Julian Cole--assistant - professor in mathematics Paul R. Cullinan--visiting instructor in economics Karl David--assistant professor in mathematics Denise Locke Deallenbach- instructor in electrical engineering Nancy Jo Delaney-instructor in lAM ~ David G. Hannay-associate professor in electrical engineering Elene M. Kaplan--visiting instructor in sociology Charles Scott Keeter-visiting instructor in political science Linda Patrik--assistant professor in philosophy Marios Phillipides-instructor in classics Jay E. Newman--assistant professor in physics Mordechai Sheinkman-as- - - - - sociate professor ot the arts Sam Chang-sang Suen-- visiting instructor in modern languages Joan Huls~ Thompson·· visiting assistant in political science P.J·. Vatiki()Us--visiting professor in history and politics. The following administrative appointments have also been announced: Beth Ayn Deutch-assistant athletic:! trainer David Dickinson--assistant director of admissions A. Uoyd Johnston--associate director of development, director of estate affairs Josephine Morecroft-assi- stant to the director in lAM Lynne B. Morette-assistant director of admissions . Jean C. Pelletiere--head librarian Lounge Soon If everything progresses according to plan, the loWlge on the first floor of Carnegie Hall should be ready for use by the end oj October. The lounge, in the lobby between the maflroom and Student Activities Office, will have room for approximately 25 persons to study a~d read, according to Lorraine Marra, student activities coordinator. She added that she hopes to have a television installed. Construction of the lounge has cost about $3,700. This sum was raised through revenues from the game room in the basement of Carnegie Hall and ap- propriations from Dean of Students Robert H. Kellett and the Tax Committee. Chairs and couches will be provided for lounge-goers' use. This furniture must arrive before it can open .. Con.struction of the outer frame is almost complete. \I hope we'll be able to keep the lounge open 24-hours-a- day,\ Mrs. Marra said. \It's a valuable addition that I've been waiting two years for.\ -JIM DAVIS This fall, Alan Nelson, associate professor of English, was appointed to the position of associate dean of faculty. With Dean of Faculty, Paula P. Brownlee, the associate dean, in Brownlee's words, has \major administrative responsibility for academic advising, curricular offering a·nd the implementation of academic regulations.'' Specifically, Dean Nelson will supervise the liberal learning program, work with the Educational Policy Committee and aid students who have problems in meeting College requiFements. The positian opened up when David B. Potts, associate profe~sor of history, . the previous dean, decided to return to teaching full time. Dean Alan Nelson Dean Brownlee then Sent letters to the faculty asking for nominations and recom- mendations for the position. Dean Nelson; s name appeared on several nominations, prompting .Dean Brownlee to call him duriJ[g the summer about taking the jQb .. Mked what ,aided him in the selection, Dean Nelson, who· graduated from Union in 1947 . and has taught here since 1959, answered that he had a kno wlel;lge of the C()!lege's workings and people,_,. and a concern for its classrQom and student life. This sentbnent was echoed by Dean Brownlee who said that he heis the \ability to work hard and with the curriculum,\ and \an ob~ious understanding of the students,\ I)iscus,sing his immediate plans, Dean Nelson ex:plained, ·~In curriculum and relation- ships between people, in all programs of the College, what is needed now is a coming together and finding of the stability that has :been upset i.n the past three or four years.\ - RACHEL MANDEL Hosts Meet AU across the country high school seniors are preparing to make the decision which could change their lives; which colltge to attend. To help prospective students here, Union College has a ''student host program,\ allowing high school students to spend a night on campus and see the College in session. A meeting of prospective student hosts took place in Hale House Lounge Sept. _ 21 with approximately 35 volunteers present. Included were Student Host Coordinators David Goss, Ronald Scaccia, Renee Nisenbaum and ·Nancy Shideler. · · If anyone wants to be a student host, he may contact any ()f the -Student h()St ,coor- dinators or the admissions office. -DAN BOOTH -Rathskeller Happy HC?ur 4-8 Fr.ir;!ay - Speeilil- MATTS PREMIUM \ $1.00 Pitcher~ Free Popcorn 25cGiass 25c Corner: Ea:stern Pkwy a!n~··McCiellan St. Phone: 377-69.89 oHer expires Oct. 15 Wilson Here Sir Harold Wilson, former prime minister of Great Britain, will speak at Memorial Chapel tonight at 8:30p.m . He will speak about hwnan rights and the situation in South AJr'ica. Wilson is coming to Union as part of atwo-week tour of the U.S. Admission to the speech for Students with College I.D.s is 75 cents. Wilson was the British Prime Ministerfrom 1964. to 1970 and in 1974 was returned to office to begin his fourth term. The years during which he was prqne minister saw the resumption of negotiations for Britain's ·entry into the Com- mon Market and the Rhodesian crisis. Domestically, there were efforts to strengthen the nation's economy and to secure peaee in Northern Ireland. Wilson retired in 1916 from public ~ervice and was made a Knight of the Garter, ' \ Book Security A new security system being installed at Scnaffer Library will make it impossible to leave the building without checking out materials.- \ Sensors at the· main exit and the one leading to the aU-night study will lock gates leading out of the library if a person tries to carry out a book or periodical that has not been·checked out by a special . machine that desens~tiieS .. .them.. ''\ ,--,. r~ .. The system cost some $22,000, provided through the library's operating budget, according to Director Jean C. Pelletiere. It was manufactured by the 3M Company and is the first of its design to be put into service in the East. The sensor unit by ·tlle all· night study was installed before classes began. Installation of the second unit has been delayed while a missing part is ·delivered. \Now people won't c()mplain as mucn about our collection being so limited, because no one will be able to take things without checking them out,\ Ms. Pelletiere said. In most instances, she added, \carelessness'' is the. reason why materials are taken out of the library without being checked. \These individuals will be reminded. Only about 10 per- cent of the time is there malicious intent.\ · Continued on page 5 Chamber Music Continued from page 9 groups range from two to eight with one person to a part. The group also performs without a conductor. According to ·Professor Sheinkman, there would be some coaching . in· volved with his groups. The members would set up con- . venient rehearsal times. Professor Sheinkman has asked for any musicians in\ terested in joining a chamber music group to contact the Arts office. Soon 1 the musical sounds of the .past will drift !nto Union. Repeati~~ bvought · b~ Committee. Chris McC~ ''receive- <U on the 1lever I I Fun Union's drive set contributioi man Georg ann()unced. Contribu donors tot~ sorne 6~915 ; in this yea1 ended June the top 5 institutions More tha last May dt \phon·a-th< 120 Colle: tieipated. Senh And$~ Dean of Brownlee numberofl programs: Seniors il for. Danf which pro .financial students p: college or career, sl: Byron A Sciences r~ 10. AppUcal awards, pr financial abroad, m Prof. Willi; Sciences r1 Prof. I Humaniti·e: person to ScholarshiJ financial s1 British uni are due t Board, So 216; by ( SchohirshiJ port to University Applicat: 31, to Prof room Engineerir Watson T1 providing ~ support fo in foreign Seniors ·tending gri should se1 LSAT regi Nov. 6. · graduate should con Kenney, S 211. The deadline if The o Resources campus, ~ and aid in begin. its Oct. 3. T contact 1 Goodman.

• - {-~ \! ,· OONCORDIENSIS, Septembe-r re~, 1978 Page 5 ----All Around Campus---- Repeati11g offenc;lers will ))e brought · before tbe Conduct Committee. There, Chairman Chris M~Carty said, they will ''receive di,SPQsition depending r li ..... ritloftheii'o!f•\'\'·\ Beware! Photo by Cary Feuermen Union's 66th annual fund drive set a' new record for contributiQn, National Chait· man George Bailey Stone has announced. · ' ContribuUons from. 8,269 donors, totaled $1,112,676. With some 6 1 915 alumni participating in this year's campaign, which ended June 30, Union remains in the top 5 percent of similar institutions in the country. More than $38,000' was raised last May during the solicitation \phon~a-thon in ·which about 120 College students par- th:ipated. Senior Grants And $cholarships· Dean of Faculty Paula P. Brownlee has annQunced a number of graduate opportunity programs for seniors. Seniors interested jn applying for . Danforth Fellowships, which provide four years of . financial support for Ph.D. students planning to pursue a college or university teaching career, should contact Prof. Byron A. Nichols, Social Sciences room 121, before Oct. 10. Applications for Fulbright awards, providing one year of financial support for study abroad, must be submitted to Prof. William B. Bristol, Social Sciences room 214, by Oct. 13. Prof. David W. Reece, Humanities room 215E, is the person to see about Marshall Scholarships, for two years of financial support to study at any British university. Applications are due to Prof. Joseph B. Board, SoCial Sciences room 216; by . Oct. 31 for Rhodes Scholarships, two years' sup- port to study at Oxford University in England. Applications are also due Oct. 31, to Prof. Charles D> Swartz, room 320N Science- Engineering Center, for the Watson Traveling Fellowship, providing one year of financial support for independent study in foreign countries. Seniors interested in at- • tending graduate schools of law should see Prof. Board. The LSA T registration· deadline is Nov. 6. · Those considering graduate schools of business should contact Prof. James M. Kenney, Social Sciences room 211. The GMAT registration deadline is Oct. 6. The ofUce of Career Resources and Placement on campus; offering information and aid in job placement, Will begin . its . recruiting program Oct. 3. Those interested. can contact Director Betty W. Goodman. Computer ment of the center at Union was .... ':. '\ .. ,originated. ·by Prof. Alan D. ·· -' .- ·Taylor. It is similar to The crisis center is an ex~ perimental program funded by the Internal Education Foun- dation. Its SUCCP.SS Will be measured largely by student response. The tutors--Jim Anderson, Susan Ekstrom, Dave Marker, and Martha Colburn ..... were picked on the basis of both their mathematical and teaching With the start of the fall term . many students are still unawarE. of the newest addition to Union College's computer center. It ;is the installation b.egun last month on a new Bilrroughs computer. The old computer, a Burroughs 85700, was used throughout June and J lily to aceomodate students taking computer courses during the summer session. It was shut down. How will the new computer; a\ · Burroughs B6805, differ from the old system? According to those who have worked within bQthsystems, the new computer will shorten computing time. This, is the time the program takes to be processed through the.computer. When more than / one program· is run at once, computing time slows down because only one program can be handled at once. The new computer will allow more' than one progr~m to be ... \ run at · a time an:d these program$ will alSQ be run at ~ faster rate, insuring fastel' sendee for the user. In addition, time that \'~ .once set aside .for ad- ministrative work will now bE open io students ))ecausE student and administrative work can be run at the samE time. Computer terminals usee primarily by students takin~ higher level will receive morE use in the new computer. Introductory \course studen~ will continue to use cards to rtm their programs. Increased use of the ter· minals in addition to their ~4 hour availability will reduce thE heavy load on the existing ke:y punch facilities and wHl quicke11 operations in the center. Although the computer is n&t yet in full operation it is hoped to · be by the beginning ~f October. SUSAN BARNHAR'l' Crisis Center . The mathematics departmel'lt has set up a \calcUlus crisb center\ for students takinll Math 10 and 12. Every Tuesday and Thursday during the fall and winter terms, rooms 1~2 and 105 in Bailey Hall, will ·J:)E reserved from seven to ten p.m. for students to do mat:b homework. An upperclass math )Il8jCJr will serve at these times as an individual tutor to anyone en· , countering problems . , programs at other colleges designed to alleviate \math anxiety\. Each year more than 300 fr~shmen take an introductory calculus co·urse here. And mathematics t~;adftlonally inspires a sense of ins~curity in many. This anXiety often hin- ders them in solving P.foblems. .abilities. - ANDY MACENTEE ATTENTION COLLEGE STUDENTS You may be eligible· for a two-year Air Force ROTC scholarship. The scholarship includes .full tuition, hib expenses. incidental fees, a reimbursement for text- books, and $100 a month tax free. How do you qual.- ify? You rrust have at least two years of graduate or undergraduate work remaining, and be willing to serve your nation at least four years as an Air Force officer. Scholarships are available to students who can qualify for pilot. navigator, or missile training, and to those who are majoring in selected technical and nontechni- cal academic disciplines, in certain scientific areas, in undergraduate nursing, or selected premedical degree areas. Non-scholarship students enrolled in the Air Force ROTC two-year program also reGeive the $100 monthly tax-free allowance just like the scholarship students. Find out today about a two-year Air Force ROTC scholarship and about the Air Force way of life. Your Air Force ROTC counselor has the details, MAJOR lASTER 8• MEAD$ AS & RC Rm 317 phone: 270-6236 D ROT'C . Photo bv Cart!v. f\e!lrinen . . . The . idel! for the eStabliSB· . . . Gateway to a great way of life. ·Beer Buys Best on Campus by JIM DAVIS Today we are faced with steadily rising beer prices, but Union students can find some of the best values on tap at the two campus bars, where beer prices have not increased since last spring and remain comparable to. those in supermarkets. The best buys are on draft beer. This fall, the Dutch Hollow ~ub is selling Michelob and Miner on draft, while Schlitz, Budweiser and a· low- priced \Special\ brand are available on tap at the Rathskellar'. ' During. a r()c::ent spot-check of the..A & P food store at 510 Union Street, we found that six-packs of Miller Schlitz, and Budweiser were selling for about $1.90, while the campus prices for 60 ounce pitchers of these brands are selling for $2,. very near retail. That's equivalent to a per- ounce price .of about 3.3 cents, as. compared to the store pr\ces of about 2.6 cents per ounce. A pitcher of Michelob sells for $2.50 in the PuJ>.-;50 cents for each 12 ounces. A can con- taining the same amount at the A & P retails for 36 cents. The \Skellar Special,\ Union Food Services Director Angelo. Mazzone explained, is \whatever brand we can get cheapest fl(om our distribuwr. Utica Club is typical, which ~old at 27 cents a can at the A & P and is available at the equivalent of 35 cents for the same amount at the Rathskellar. The selection of draft beers sold on campus has changed since last spring .. Then, the Pub offered Schlitz and Lowenbrau, in addition to Michelob, and the special wasn't offered. \We sell twice as much beer at . the tSkellat than the Pub,\ said Mazzone to explain why the changes were made. In ,a typical week. about eight half· establishment 6ud1Veiser Dutch Hollow Pub ,65 Rathskellar .55 A&P .31 510 Union Street Holiday Inn 100 Nott Terrace Press Box 326 State Street Ramada Inn 1.00 Erie. Boulevard VanDyck .90 237 Union Street barrels, each containing 1,984 ounces, are consumed at the Heineken Miller Molson 1.00 .70 .95 1.00 .70 .90 .65 .33 .33 1.25 .J,25 1.00 1.25 1.00 1.25 .90 1.00 Pub, while 17 are used at the Rathskellar, which does not sell mixed drinks as the Pub does. But during the first two days it was open this term, the Rathskellar went through more beer than it usually does in an entire week: 18 half-barrels. That's enough to fill almost 600 pitchers. \We always start out fast,\ Mazzone said, adding ~hat \by the, fifth week, sales · tail off because students realize they're at college to study, not to drink beer.\ The winter, he said, is the slowest time of the year for beer sales. They are the buswst in the spring; about a third more beer was sold during the past spring term than during the previous two combined. Because of the restrictions in the class of license the two campus bars hold, neither can sell barrels. Fraternities, sororities and other groups seeking these purchases must go to one of a number of local beer distributors. One of these is Gateway l3eyerages Inc.t 199,0 Maxon Road. Its president, Anthony Marzitelli, explained that ''prices only go in one direction: Up.'' Still, he added, promotions staged by beer companies or supermarkets allow beer to be sold at low prices. At the A & P, for instancE>, Schlitz was being discounted, to $1.39 for a six- pack. Similarly, Marzitelli noted that since· August his firm has been able to give purchasers of seven barrels during a calendar month an eighth :barrel for free. They regularly sell for between $17 and $22.75, depending on the brand: . · The Pub and Rathskellar also offer periodic specials on beer. But even without these discounts, their prices remain among the lowest in the area,

Page 6 OONOOBDIENSIS, SeptembeT ·s~~ 1918 EDITORIALS A NeW Year Union College has had its share of turmoil. During the last two years, the campus }las wit· nessed an increase in con:trove~:sy and a propor- tional decrease in leadership and morale. On Decerpber 15, 1977; a special committee was charged by the board of trustees to study and review the performan.ce of the trustees, president, and cam,pus in view of the negativism on campus stemming from controversies surrounding the· presidency of Dr. Bonner. The findings. ·Of this committee, known as the Hazzard Report, have recently been released, though not publicly. Due to the fact that Con· cordiensis does not want this document to circulate outside the gates of the college, we will not reprint it in our pages. We strongly recommend that every member of the Union community read this document carefully and thoughtfully. It is in the library. During the next few weeks, we hope to open up a forum for debate on the issues raised in this document. A number of questions are immediately evident. What role will students play in regard to the Board of Trustees? If the student trustees cannot vote, how can -the student viewpoint be presented adequately to the full Bo~rd? Through what mechanism can the recommendations of the Hazzard Report actually be implemented? In what manner will governance at Union be altered,? We wholeheartedly agree with the closing paragraph of the report directed to the campus: \Trust each other, join in rational discourse, recognize that the best efforts of all will be needed to bring Union College successfully into its third century.\ Tragic Loss In the past year, numerous off-campus fires have taken the lives of both students of Union College and residents of Schenectady. In the most recent incident, the college community was struck by the loss of Leonard Zelasko, a Brother at the Delta Upsilon fraternity. The pain that is felt by such a tragedy runs deep in the hearts of all. But as we know, nothing can undo this tragic occurrence. What, then, can we, as a community, do in the face of this tragedy? Certainly, we can and should express our·sorrow and sympathy to friends and fraternity brothers, who feel the pain deeper than most. Others, in a natural course of emotion may seek to blame others. Others stm, may choose to with- draw from the community, seeking shelter from the pain. But, none of these will return Lenny to us. We, as a community can only seek to prevent further tragedy. We must strive to reduce the risk of off-campus fires and must encourage the College at large to take more seriously the dangers of fire and to prepare for them. 'When the life of someone we love is lost, we ask ourselves why. Often the answers are found in what we learn for the future. Perhaps if the loss of Leonard Zelasko .heightens our awareness of the dangers of fire--and perhaps even .saves a life in the future--then this tragedy will not go without meaning. C!lnurnr Editor&in·chief Production :Manager News Editors Layout Editor Associate Editor Feature Editors Arts Editor Culture Editors Sports Editor Photo Editor Classified Editor Copy Editors Subscription Editors Calendar Editor Fine Lines Editor Staff David Scbinertz, David Rubin Debbe Damreli Jim Davis, Sue Barnhart DannyWojnilower Matt Nagorsky Roslyn Stone, DonnaCreeley, Lee Glickman, SteveMonosson Lisa V oennan, Eileen Kanter· Tom Buioccbi CaryFeuermarr Terri:Moran:; · Gary B~witch, Maryann Popeil• Valerie Juster,MicbeltrCoven Melissa Cragin JanDeDeka . Robin CorniCk, Marty Dolan, Ken Marks, Rachel, Mandel, Amy Perlmutter, Doug Rosenfeld, RichardShen, . . Jill Stein, Fran Teitel, Janet \Vieseltbier Opinion: Student TruJtees 'A New ··lind of Challenge' by BRIEN O'TOOLE and MARKH. BURNE'IT . The final report to Union's board of trustees by the review Committee, headed by. George Hazzard, presents anew: kind of challenge for the Union com• munity. It challenges us to face the critical decisions we will make this year openly, honestly, and with respect for all parties involved. Certainly, finding even these basic ingredients for a successful institutional study would h<we s~emed remote, last year. Yet, the climate on campus clearly seems to have changed .. Students, faculty, ad.· ministration, alumni, and trustees appear willing to foresake attempts to bludgeon each other into submission, for a joi.nt effort in pw-suit of goals we all share. If we give a successful response to this challenge posed by the consultants, there really is little reason to doubt that the more concrete issues of the coming year will be resolved satisfactorily. The Hazzard Committee has identified many of these issues and has evaluated them in relation' to their role in strengthening the College. The committee's document was purposefully designed as a guide for the board of trustees in their attempt to deal with the problems of the college in the 1980's. Many of the recom· mendations are general with strong quaHfications ern• phasizing the need for honest, thorough discussion within the campus community before decisive action is taken: This generality may distlfi'b some members of the corn· munity, but it was felt that this format, which de-emphasis t:he spl:!-cific troubles of the. recent past and focuses attention and debate on a comprehesive set of contructive recommendations; would be more beneficial in helping solve many of Union's problems. Students and faculty feel the two most relevent themes concern communication bet- ween th~ campus and the · trustees and the College's: ability to examine itself critically with respect to the goals it seeks. This, of course, immediately implies the issue of governance. The trustees have been advised that they should carefully in- spect governance and. receive extensive consultation from the college community,. One specific recomendation that was made ad~ises elimination of the present methoJl of campus. represen- tation Qn the Board. · nespite the pot:entHrUy volatile nature.of the question it ougbt to ~e considered thoughtfully and dispassionately. This report may ·be a key to the future of the. College,. Conunents or questions con- cerning it should be directed to the campus trustees. We will inform the board of campus ()f opinion. New Committee 'spots Open In response to increased student interest in serving on committees, a proposal will be made to increase the size of certain student forum corn· mittees. They are the college center, concert~ elections, film, social, speakers. forum, and tax committees. In addition, ·the college senate committees on ~ library, housing, and standing of students also have openings. Any student interested in servin~ on any one of these committees can sign the ad hoc corru:nittee list located in lhe Student Activities Office. If you have already signed this .list, come in and specify which ~ommittee you are interested in. ConcQrdiensis information Headlines and Deadlines In conjunction With the Schenectady Fire Department, Concordiensis wHI offer a seminar on fire prevention next Tuesday, Oct. 3, at 7:30 p.m. in room 204 of Butterfield Hall The program will be given by Chief Ralph Marshall. He will go over fire prevention techniques. \I think the seminar will be valuable,\ said Bob Short; a senior here. ''Fire prevention is a serious topic. Knowing about it will always be helpful.\ Concordiensis will now ap- pear on Thursdays each week. However, because of the Jewis)l · holiday of'- Yom .KippUr, Which begins. Oct. 10; no .edition will appear Oct. 12.. Regular publication will resume the following week, and ~ach one thereafter until the end of the fall term. .Newspaper mak&up . takes place Tuesday nights in the ... Concordiensis office, on the third floor of Carnegie Halt AU · are welcome. Only one response was received to the puzzle that appeared in the Orientation Issue. This was incomplete, so the prize, a free dinner for two at the Dutch Hollow Pub, Will not be awarded. Forum Office Opens Steve Richards, president of the Student Forwn, has an· nounced he will be available for discussion with students in the Student Activities office the following ho.ur~tduring the week beginning Oct. 2: Monday: 9:30 a.m. to 10:30 a.m. Tuesday: 5 p.m. to 6 p;tn. Wednesday: 9:30a.m. to 10:30 a~m. Thursday and Friday: 11 a.m. to noon. These times will change weekly. A listing will appear in Concordiensls each week. RicbardSalso announced that members of the Coll~ge. com· munity are invited to · submit relevant items to the' stu<lent forum agenda committee. Please send all material to box 1770~ c-o·· Steve RichardS. Any questions~ caU 372-o1'12-. - byDI , . Last 3 Departme1 Freshman in which·m 1981 enrol thirds· of enrolled proposed future fre1 The FrE is designe troduction The major aid writer are:as of develo,p unt:sually and obs, developmt and oral c hoped that represent<J works in t sciences .~ that each acquainte< of :educaU Union Cc content ~ preceptor are intend thinking educationc initiate th< and plann objectives The ·COU deal of · stuaents students CJ seven bo Homer tj readings l 51 The Un ·.convened: .;:Iegtslativ student se Immedi meeting'.~ President ·a highly < the Rober eachrnem discussed more salh procedure Since t meeting { was no \ol or act 1 president variousofl persons p1 The begi year was 1 loss of · Zelasko in 1111 BarrE Three o, escaped th back in 1 brother Fraternity others. As Cl Secretary, valuable I

Page 6 OONOORDIENSIS, September g~J 1918 EDITORIALS A New Year Union College has bad ib share of turmoil. During the last two years, the campus has wit- nessed an increase in controversy and a propor- tional decrease in leade·rship and morale. On Decetpber 15, 1977~ a special committee was charged by the board of trustees to study and review the performance of the trustees, president, and campus in view of the negativism on campus stemming frorr. controversies surrounding the· presidency of Dr. Bonner. The findings of this committee, known as the Hazzard Report, have recently been released, though not publicly. Due to the fact that Con· cordiemis does not want this document to circulate outside the gates of the college, we will not reprint it in our pages. We strongly recommend that every member of the Union community read this document carefully and thoughtfully. It is in the library. During the next few weeks, we hope to open up a forum for debate on the issues raised in this document. A number of questions are immediately evident. What role will students play in regard to the Board of Trustees? If the student trustees cannot vote, how can the student viewpoint be presented adequately to the full Bo~rd? Through what mechanism can the recommendations of the Hazzard Report actually be implemented? In what manner will governance at Union be altered? We wholeheartedly agree with the closing paragraph of the report directed to the campus: \Trust each other, join in rational discourse, recognize that the best efforts of all will be needed to bring Union College successfully into its third century.\ T:ragic Loss In the past year, numerous off-campus fires have taken the lives of both students of Union College and residents of Schenectady. In the most recent incident, the college community was struck by the loss of Leonard Zelasko, a Brother at the Delta Upsilon fraternity. The pain that is felt by such a tragedy runs deep in the hearts of all. But as we know, nothing can undo this tragic occurrence. What, then, can we, as a community, do in the face of this tragedy? Certainly, we can and should express our sorrow and sympathy to friends and fraternity brothers, who feel the pain deeper than most. Others, in a natural course of emotion may seek to blame others. Others still, may choose to with· draw from the community, seeking shelter from the pain. But, none of these will return Lenny to us. We, as a community can only seek to prevent further tragedy. We must strive to reduce the risk of off-campus fires and must encourage the College at large to take more seriously the dangers of fire and to prepare for them. When the life of someone we love is lost, we ask ourselves why. Often the answers are found in what we learn for the future. Perhaps if the loss of Leonard Zelasko heightens our awareness of the dangers of fire--and perhaps even saves a life in the future--then this tragedy will not go without meaning. ,.ai>EI> , ... ~~()'•, ~r~.~ atnnrnr 17 .~~~!~ 95 bitnsis C?:J~~:tc'fl +/lL~~ ~~£CTAll\i ~ditors-01-chief Production Manager News Editors Layout Editor Associate Editor Feature Editors David Schmertz, David Rubin Debbe Damrell Jim Davis, Sue Barnhart Danny Wojnilower Matt Nagorsky Roslyn Stone, Donna Creeley, Lee Glickman Steve Monosson Lisa Voennan, Eileen Kanter Tom Buiocchi Cary Feuerman Terri Moran · Gary Bowitch, Maryann Popeil Valerie Juster, Michele Coven Melissa Cragin JanDeDeka Robin Cornick, Marty Dolan, Ken Marks Rachel Mandel, Amy Perlmutter, Doug Rose~eld, Ricbard Shen, Jill Stein, Fran Teitel, Janet Wieselthier Arts Editor Culture Editors Sports Editor Photo Editor Classified Editor Copy Editors Subscription Editors Calendar Editor Fine Lines Editor Staff Opi11ion: Student Trustees 'A N,ew Kind of Challenge' by BRIEN O'TOOLE and MARK H. BURNETI The final report to Union's board of trustees by the review Committee, headed by George Hazzard, presents a new kind of challenge for the Union cern· mwtity. It challenges us to face the critical decisions we will make this year openly, honestly, and with respect for altl parties involved. Certainly, finding even these basic ingredients for a successful institutional study would ha.ve seemed remote, last year. Yet, the climate on campus clearly seems to have changed. Students, faculty, ad- ministration, alumni, and trustees appear willing to feresake attempts to bludgeon each other into s1:1bmission, for a joint effort in pursuit of goals we aU share. If we give a successful response to this challenge posed by the consultants, there really is little reason to doubt that the more concrete issues of the corning year will be resolved satisfactorily. The Hazzard Committee has identified many of these issues and has evaluated them in relation to their role in strengthening the College. The committee's document was purposefully designed as a guide for the board of trustees in their attempt to deal with the problems of the college in the 1980's. Many of the recom- mendations are general with strong qualifications em· phasizing the need for honest, thorough discussion within the campus community before decisive action is taken. This generality may disturb some members of the com- mwtity, but it was felt that this format, which de-emphasis the specific troubles of the recent past and focuses attention and debate on a comprehesive set of contructive recommendations, would be more beneficial in helping solve many of Union's problems. Students and faculty feel the two most relevent themes concern communication bet- ween the campus and the trustees and the College's. ability to examine itself critically with respect to the goa-ls it seeks. This, of course, immediately i..mpHes the issue of governance. The trustees have been advised that they should carefully in- spect governance and receive extensive consultation from the coUege community. One specific recomendation that was rna de ad vises elimination of the present metho.d of campus represen- tation on the Board. nesp.i.te the potentiaHy volatile nature of the question it ought to be considered thoughtfully and dispassionately. This report may be a key to the future of the College. Comments or questions con- cerning it showd be directed to the campus trustees. We win inform the board of campus of opinion. ···~.;····.,.· .. E.JJ·E· hR·s· ... · · · .'·-. .~.=-:1~.~,-:~ :-::-:u :,.;::-:- -'~ ~ - ... ' .. ::~-:: :~> ., .. _ . ;.~ ',-,-. ,-. :;;~·-·}, :-~:·::.,,·~ ; , <>.•, • -;?-•:· •:•. ;\\:, •on .. ·\ ' lt'.s .,gt·eat that· program& · orientation ·can serve to firm tl)~t fact. 1 hope New Committee Spots Open In response to increased student interest in serving on committees, a proposal wUI be made to blcrease the size of certain student forwn com· mittees. They are the college center, concert, elections, film, social, speakers forum, and tax committees. In addition, the college senate committees on . library, housing, and standblg of students also have openings. Any student interested in serving on any one of these committees can sign the ad hoc committee list located in the Student Activities Office. If you have already signed this fist, come in and specify which committee you are interested in. Concordiensis Infonnation Headlines and Deadlines In conjunction with the Schenectady Fire Department, Concordiensis will offer a seminar on fire prevention next Tuesday, Oct. 3, at 7: 30 p.m. in room 204 of Butterfield Hall. The program will be given by Chief Ralph Marshall. He will go over fire prevention techniques. ''I think the seminar will be valuable,\ said Bob Short,\ a senior here. \Fire prevention is a serious topic. Knowblg about it will always be helpful.\ Concordiensis will now ap- pear on Thursdays each week. However, because of the Jewish holiday of Yom Kippur, which begbls Oct. 10, no edition will appear Oct. 12. Regular publication will resume the following week, and each one thereafter Wltil the end of the fall term. Newspaper make-up takes place Tuesday nights bl the Concordiensis office, on the third floor of Carnegie Hall. All are welcome. Only one response was received to the puzzle that appeared m the Orientation Issue. This was incomplete, so the prize, a free dinner for two at the Dutch Hollow Pub, will not be awarded. Forum Office Opens Steve Richards, president of the Student Forum, has an- nounced he will be available for discussion with students in the Student Activities office the following homs dming the week beginning Oct. 2: Monday: 9:30 a.m. to lfl:30 a.m. Tuesday: 5 p.m. to 6 p.m. Wednesday: 9:30a.m. to 10:30 a.m. Thursday and Friday: 11 a.m. to noon. These times will change weekly. A listing will appear in Concordiensis each week. Richards also announced that members of the College com- munity are invited to submit relevant items to the student forum agenda committee. Please send all material to box 1770, c-o Steve Richards. Any questions, call 372.0172. byDI Last 3 Departme: Freshman in which OJ 1981 enrol thirds of enrolled proposed future frel The Fn is designe troduction The major aid writer areas of develop unusually and obs developmt and oral 1 hoped that representG works in t sciences < that each acquainte< of educati Union Cc content ~ preceptor are intend thinking education< initiate th< and plann objectives The cou deal of students students G seven bo Homer t< readings • 51 The Un convened: legislativ student se Immedi meeting'~ President a highly < the Rober eachmem discussed more sali' procedure Since t meeting c was no \ol or act t president various ofl persons p1 The begi year was 1 loss of · Zelasko in 1111 BarrE Three o' escaped th back in : brother Fraternity others. As CJ Secretary, valuable

-' ,. \'' • , .... ,$_ t . l,. .~ i ; . dCiNOOifiJIBNSIS., September!$, 1918 Page 7 Preceptorials Expand for 2nd Year by DONNA CREELEY , Last year the English Department offered its· first Freshman Preceptorial Course in which ·On~third ofthe Class of 1981 enrolled. This year two thirds of the freshmen are enrolled in the course. A proposed requirement for all future freshmen. The Freshman Preceptorial iS designed to provide all lnd. troduction to liberal learning. The major course objectiYe. is to aid writers working in various areas of human knowledge develop to communicate unt·sually perceptive analyses and observations through. development of skill's in written and oral cqmmunication. It is hoped that thliough the study of representative or controversfal works in the burnanities, soCial sciences and natural sciences that each student will become acquainted with the full range of educational opport1;111ities at Union College. The course content and close student• preceptor advising relationship are intended to .stimulate clear thinking about personal educational objectives and to\. initiate thoughtful in:vestigation and planning to achieve these objectives. The. ·COl,.trse involves a g:r;eat deal of work for both the stuaents and teachers. The students are required to read seven books (ranging from Homer to Freud) and six readings as :well as complete five short papers. The teachers, who aren~t teaching. from tbeir professional field of training, spend rnany hours extensively critiquin~ . the papers and meeting with students outside of class for individual discussions themselves to the various readings~ and to gain a wid~;.r under$tanding of the material involved. Many students were advised to take it because of the small class size, good discussions and diversified and advising. They also meet weekly arnon-g themselves to ex~hange notes and help one _ . anothednthe educational fields they may not be familar with. The :faculty fe~ls that these meetings are necessary since the course requires such a broad and. 'general educational background, Alan Nelson, Associate Dean of Faculty stated' that def~pite the amount of \tork and: time .required, the cour:se received a very .favorable response from those involved in. it last year. Both students and faculty ·were .impressed'. He also discussed the energy evolved frotn the course last year. If it continues ··'·' readings. Those students who chose not to tak.e the precep- torial did so mainly because they felt it would be unin- teresting or not worth the time they would be required to spend. Despite p.resent freshmen attitudes towards the course, last year's students reconunend it to any freshman willing to put in the time and effort. at. .such a· high level it could provide a great opportUI1ity to , .the freshmen as it e~poses them WILLIAM THOMAS, one of six. new teachers in the fre:.hmen preceptorial program this y:ear, goes over some material in class. The pr<;>gram, instituted last year, has been greatly enlarged and is part of the liberal learning program . to the thoughts of tl;le int~resting minds they are studying to help them. develop their own philosophies and ideas. Al~o the small Class size (15 students) allows for a lot of cotn- munication between the students iind teachers, with all of the students needs and i<teas being expr~essed. There are. multiple· reasons for two thirds of the freshmen choosmg this course-: The most popular ones being: to improve their writing skills, to expose ·Another Sorority? by DONNA CREELEY 14lst Thursday evening the Women's Network held a meeting 1n the Upper Hale House Lounge to discuss the possibilities of organizing another S()rority due to the success of the two present on campus now--Delta Gamma and Sigma Delta Tau. are among those events planned for this year. They are also planning several off campus fwtd raising projects for their national charities-Sight Con- servation and Aid to the Blind. Student, Fo:rum Meets Both present sororities are fairly new to the college, and were established to provide for women, as a group, a place to go and equal representation. They have not only succeeded in doing this, but also in providing a less expensive form of living than the suite, a less expensive meal plan, and a close knit group that is willing to help one another with work and social problems. Sigma Delta Tau was established at Union one and a half years ago. Along with their many other activities th~y have planned an Open campus Party at 10:00 this Thursday (Sep- tember 28) at their home in the South end of North College. The Union Student Forum :, convened_~ept. 25 to kick off the \legislative process in the. student sector. Immediately prior to the meeting'.s ~ommencement, President Richards handed out -a highly condensed version of the Robert's Rules of Order to each member present, and then discussed what he felt were the more salient aspects of formal procedure apd debate. Since this was the .first meeting of the Forum, there was no \old business'' to de·bate or act upon. Ipstead, the· president called upon the various officers and committee- persons present to give a :brief · account of their activities to date. Randy Feldman, forum vice- president, reiterating a previous Forum sentiment, said, that the forwn should try to encourage student interest in the ad-b()c sub-committee· system. Alongtbis line, tax committee Chairperson Alan Rutkin proposed a motion. that an ad- hoc committee- be formed, staffed by three· students· who will c~talog those capital items owned by the tax committee and · determine · their availability. The committ.ee will WOJ~k witb the Chair of the Tax Committee and report to the - Student Forum. ''Capital items'' refers to such items as concert or speaker's committee equip- -ment. · The next .forum meeting will take place Oct. 4,.,..at 7 p;m. in room SS 110. All stud.ent interested in furthering their: 'knowledge of parlimentary procedure in general, and the forum's legislative process in specific, may consult those copies of the ·Student Forum's by-laws,. rules of procedure, and constitution presently on file with Lorraine Marra in the Student. Activities Office on the first floQr of Carnegie. A Tri'b,ute, to Len -zelasko The beginning 9f a new school year was marred by the tragic loss of U-Coll senior Len Zelasko in an apartment fire at 1111 Barrert Street on Sept. 16. Three other Union $tudents escaped the blaze and are .now back in school. Len was a brother in Delta Upsilon Fraternity, as are two of tlte others. As Chapter Relations Secretary, Len provided in- valuable leadership for the Len Zelasko Brotherhood, and published the house's alumni newsletter, The Open Visor. A political science-economics major at Union, Len was an .excellent student and an ex- traordinary individual, maintaining an index of ap- proximately 3.25. His innumerable . con· tributions outside the classroom will also be sorely missed. Len was a member of the Dutchman varsity gQlf team durin,g his junior year, and served as a - member of tlie 1978 Orientation CoiJllllittee. In the National Collegiate Match Garnes in bowling, Len was a finalist for three· years running; In 1976-77-78, Le11 was among the top 32 in the U.S. He resided in. Ca~skill,. and attended the Catskill High School. Len was a high honor student and a three-letterman in varsity athletics. · Many pe<~ple will .feel his tragic loss~ Len was a w,elcomed part of many people~slives. The stUdents 'Wllo traveled, worked, , and' shared good times With him are all left with . pleasant memories ·of and will miss Len greatly. To the brothers of Delta Upsilon. his loss will be hard, indeed. But the brothers who were closest to Lenny were truly the fortunate ones, for . they are able to remember hint as he truly was, a concerned friend; a cheerful companion, and a loved and respected brother. The brothers of Delta Upsilon have established a memorial fund iri memory of Len Zelasko. All those wishing to donate to the memory of this fine man are urged to send their donation to Union Chapter of Delta Upsilon in care of the chapter house, where it will be used to acquire a lasting gift for Union College. Address all donations to: Union Chapter of Delta Upsilon, attn: Zelosko Memorial, 1231 Lenox Road, Schenectady, N.Y., 12308. This piece was, prepared by the brothers of Delta Upsllon. Jn M.,moryof . Leonard:Zelasko A Memorial Service willooheld October&, at 12:30p.m. Memorial Chapel · Delta Gamma, whose chapter is two years old, resides at Potter House oil Lenox Road. They have been responsible for last year's disco and the recent Book Exchange. Open Campus Parties, future Book Exchanges and a Delta Hanuna Olympics Both sororities invite anyone to stop by and visit with them at any time and emphasize that there is a great deal of alumni support in Schenectady for those interested in starting a third or fourth sorority here at Union. Campus Notes Sharlet The New Soviet Constitution of 1977, by Robert Sharlet, professor of political science at Union, has been published by King,s Court Conununications, Inc., of Brwtswick, Ohio. In the book, Prof. Sharlet, who is a specialist on Soviet constitutional law, examines the text of the new constitution adopted last October, coin- ciding withthe 6oth anniversary of the Bolshevik Revolution. The doewnent ·replaced one enacted under Stalin in 1936. The first draft of the new constitution had been made public in June, 1977. In the months that followed, there was a substantial amount of carefully-controlled public discussion,leading to a series of revisions before final adoption in October. In his book, Prof. Sharlet analyzes both the concepts articulated by the constitution and its specific provisions. He also notes that the ratification process yielded a nwnber · of valuable insights into what positions or issues are con- sidered to be \acceptable\ for public discussion, and looks at the r.elationship of the con- stitution to political justice in the Soviet Union. Sharlet has taught at Union since 1967. He holds degrees fro~ Bran~eis Vniversity and Indiana Umvers1ty. Schneller Will the recruitment of blacks into physician's assistant training programs lead to more P.A.'s practicing in un- derserved, urban ghettos, as affirmative action proponents ·suggest? Or will the recruits avoid such needy areas in favor of more attractive and affluent settings? An. article in the August issue of the Journal of Medical Education by Union sociologists Eugene Schneller and Terry Weiner suggests that a significant number of black students in P .A. programs throughout the country. The students, surveyed before graduation, were asked a number of questions about their anticipations for professional practice. The study data suggest \that black students have made a general commitment to assist primary care physicians in the city and mainly in the ghetto,'' the sociologists say. In fact, more than 34 percent of the blacks said they woUld work in ghetto areas-the most unifonn statement of intention among any of the surveyed groups to practice in any particular ·setting, uone finds many ~ompanioDS for food and drink, but in a serious business a man's companions are very few.\ Elegies,l.

OONOORDIENSIS, September 28, 1978 Page 7 \ . Preceptorials Expand for 2nd Year by DONNA CREELEY Last year the English Department offered its first Freshman Preceptorial Course in which onethirdofthe Class of 1981 enrolled. This year two thirds of the £reshmen are enrolled in the course. A proposed requirement for all future freshmen. The Freshman Preceptorial is designed to provide an in- troduction to liberal learning. The major course objective is to aid writers working in various areas of human knowledge develop to communicate unusually perceptive analyses and observations through development of skills in written and oral communication. It is hoped that through the study of representative or controversial works in the humanities, social sciences and natural sciences that each student will become acquainted with the full range of educational opportunities at Union College. The course content and close student- preceptor advising relationship are intended to stimulate clear thinking about personal educational objectives and to· initiate thoughtful investigation and planning to achieve these objectives. The course involves a great deal of work for both the students and teachers. The students are required to read seven books (ranging from Homer to Freud) and six readings as well as complete five short papers. The teachers, who aren't teaching from their professional field of training, spend many hours extensively critiquing the papers and meeting with students outside of class for individual discussions and advising. They also meet weekly amon·g themselves to exchange notes and help one another in the educational fields they may not be familar with. The faculty feels that these meetiRgs are necessary since the course requires such a broad and general educational background. Alan Nelson, Associate Dean of Faculty stated that despite the amount of work and time required, the course received a very favorable response from those involved in it last year. Both students and faculty were impressed. He also discussed the energy evolved from the course last year. If it continues at such a high level it could provide a great opportunity to the freshmen as it exposes them to the thoughts of the interesting minds they are studying to help them. develop their own philosophies and ideas. Also the small class size (15 students) allows for a lot of com- munication between the students and teachers, with all of the students needs and ideas being expr.essed. There are multiple reasons for two thirds of the freshmen choosing this course. The most popular ones being: to improve their writing skills, to expose themselves t-o the various readings, and to gain a wid'-r understanding of the material involved. Many students were advised to take it because of the small class size, good discussions and diversified readings. Those students who chose not to take the precep- torial did so mainly because they felt it would be unin- teresting or not worth the time they would be required to spend. Despite present freshmen attitudes towards the course, last year's students recommend it to any frer;hman willing to put in the time and eftort. WILLIAM THOMAS, one of six new teachers in the fre:.hmen preceptorial program this year, goes over some material in class. The program, instituted last year, has been greatly enlarged and is part of the liberal learning program. Another Sorority? by DONNA CREELEY Last Thursday evening the Women's Network held a meeting in the Upper Hale House Lounge to discuss the possibilities of organizing another sorority due to the success of the two present on campus now--Delta Gamma and Sigma Delta Tau. are among those events planned for this year. They are also planning several off campus fund raising projects for their national charities-Bight Con- servation and Aid to the Blind. Student Forum Meets Both present sororities are fairly new to the college, and were established to provide for women, as a group, a place to go and equal representation. They have not only succeeded in doing this, but also in providing a less expensive form of living than the suite, a less expensive meal plan, and a close knit group that is willing to help one another with work and social problems. Sigma Delta Tau was established at Union one and a half years ago. Along with their many other activities they have planned an Open Campus Party at 10:00 this Thursday (Sep- tember 28) at their home in the South end of North College. The Union Student Forwn convened Sept. 25 to kick off the legislative process in the student sector. Immediately prior to the meeting's commencement, President Richards handed out a highly condensed version of the Robert's Rules of Order to each member present, and then discussed what he felt were the more salient aspects of formal procedure and debate. Since this was the first meeting of the Forum, there was no \old business\ to debate or act upon. Instead, the president called upon the various officers and committee- persons present to give a brief accoW1t of their activities to date. Randy Feldman, forum vice- president, reiterating a previous Forum sentiment, said, that the forum should try to encourage student interest in the ad-hoc sub-committee system. Along this line, tax committee Chairperson Alan Rutkin proposed a motion that an ad- hoc committee be formed, staffed by three students who will catalog those capital items owned by the tax committee and determine their availability. The committee will work with the Chair of the Tax Committee and report to the Student Forum. \Capital items\ refers to such items as concert or speaker's committee equip- ment. The next forum meeting will take place Oct. 4, at 7 p.m. in room SS 110. All student interested in furthering their knowledge of parlimentary procedure in general, and the forum's legislative process in specific, may consult those copies of the ·Student Forum's by-laws, rules of procedure, and constitution presently on file with Lorraine Marra in the Student Activities Office on the first floor of Carnegie. A Tribute. to Len Zelasko The beginning of a new school year was marred by the tragic loss of U-Coll senior Len Zelasko in an apartment fire at 1111 Barrert Street on Sept. 16. Three other Union students escaped the blaze and are .now back in school. Len was a brother in Delta Upsilon Fraternity, as are two of the others. As Chapter Relations Secretary, Len provided in- valuable leadership for the Len .Zelasko Brotherhood, and published the house's alumni newsletter, The Open Visor. A political science-economics major at Union, Len was an excellent student and an ex- traordinary individual, maintaining an index of ap- proximately 3.25. His innumerable . con- tributions outside the classroom will also be sorely missed. Len was a member of the Dutchman varsity golf team during his 1unior year, and served as a member of tne 1978 Orientation Committee. In the National Collegiate Match Games in bowling, Len was a finalist for three years running. In 1976-77-78, Len was among the top 32 in the U.S. He resided in Catskill, and attended the Catskill High School. Len was a high honor student and a three-letterman in varsity athletics. Many people will feel his tragic loss. Len was a welcomed part of many people's lives. The students who traveled, worked, and shared good times with him are all left with pleasant memories of and will miss Len greatly. To the brothers of Delta Upsilon, his loss will be hard, indeed. But the brothers who were closest to Lenny were truly the fortunate ones, for they are able to remember him as he truly was, a concerned friend, a cheerful companion, and a loved and respected brother. The brothers of Delta Upsilon have established a memorial fund in memory of Len Zelasko. All those wishing to donate to the memory of this fine man are urged to send their donation to Union Chapter of Delta Upsilon in care of the chapter house, where it will be used to acquire a lasting gift for Union College. Address all donations to: Union Chapter of Delta Upsilon, attn: Zelosko Memorial, 1231 Lenox Road, Schenectady, N.Y., 12308. This piece was, prepared by the brothers of Delta Upsllon. In Memory of Leonard Zelasko A Memorial Service will beheld OctoberS, at 12:30 p.m. Memorial Chapel Delta Gamma, whose chapter is two years old, resides at Potter House on Lenox Road. They have been responsible for last year's disco and the recent Book Exchange. Open Campus Parties, fnture Book Exchanges and a Delta Ganuna Olympics Both sororities invite anyone to stop by and visit with them at any time and emphasize that there is a great deal of alwnni support in Schenectady for those interested in starting a third or fourth sorority here at Union. Campus Notes Sharlet The New Soviet Constitution of 1977, by Robert Sharlet, professor of political science at Union, has been published by King's Court Communications, Inc., of BrWlswick, Ohio_ In the book, Prof. Sharlet, who is a specialist on Soviet constitutional law, examines the text of the new constitution adopted last October, coin- ciding with the 6oth anniversary of the Bolshevik Revolution. The document replaced one enacted under Stalin in 1936. The first draft of the new constitution had been made public in June, 1977. In the months that followed, there was a substantial amount of carefully-controlled public discussion, leading to a series of revisions before final adoption in October. In his book, Prof. Sharlet analyzes both the concepts articulated by the constitution and its specific provisions. He also notes that the ratification process yielded a ntunber of valuable insights into what positions or issues are con- sidered to be \acceptable\ for public discussion, and looks at the relationship of t.he con- stitution to political justice in the Soviet Union. Sharlet has taught at Union since 1967. He holds degrees from Brandeis University and Indiana University. Schneller Will the recruitment of blacks into physician's assistant training programs lead to more P .A.'s practicing in un- derserved, urban ghettos, as affirmative action proponents suggest? Or will the recruits avoid such needy areas in favor of more attractive and affiuent settings? An article in the August issue of the Journal of Medical Education by Union sociologists Eugene Schneller and Terry Weiner suggests that a significant number of black students in P .A. programs throughout the country. The students, surveyed before graduation, were asked a nwnber of questions about their anticipations for professional practice. The study data suggest \that black students have made a general commitment to assist ptimary care physicians in the city and mainly in the ghetto,\ the sociologists say. In fact, more than 34 percent of the blacks said they would work in ghetto areas-the most uniform statement of intention among any of the surveyed groups to practice in any particular setting. \One finds many ·ompanions for food and drink, but in a serious business a man's companions are very few.\ Elegies, 1.

Page 8 OONOORDIENSIS, September S$ .. 1978 - - . . culture arts Moscow Chamber Orchestra Debuts Oct.. 4 The internationally ac.- claimed Moscow Chamber Orchestr~ will perform on Oct. 4 at Memorial Chapel. It will be under the direction of Igor Bezrodni, violinist, and with flutist Albert Ratzbaum. The pro~ram includes Bach's Violin Co1 certo No. 2·in E, and Suite No. ·2 in B minor for .flute and strings, and · Mozart's Sym- phony No. 29 and Divertimento in D major. Tickets are $6 per person, but a number of tickets will be available free to Union students · starting Monday, Oct. 2 at the Student Activities Office. 'union students also can obtain tickets at the door the night of the concert unless Memorial Chapel is full. · The concert · starts at 8: 30 p.m. The museum-college concert series began disappointingly in 1974, when the Moscow Chamber Orchestra's scheduled appearance was suddenly cancelled. The reason for the abrupt cancellation of the ensemble's entire U.S. tour that year surfaced later: Director Rudolf Barshai had applied to emigrate to Israel (he subsequently was allowed to do so). The group's visit to the U.S. this year is its first under the direction of Bezradni, who is carrying on the tradition of excellence begun by Barshai. Bezrodni has been in- ternationally acclaimed as a violin soloist. In recent years he has devoted more and more time to his conducting ac- tivities, and, with his profound knowledge of large orchestras and small chamber groups,. has proven to be an ideal director for the Moscow Chamber Orchestra. The orchestra was founded in 1955 when a group of Moscow orchestra players began getting tngether for fun to play mu8ic for chamber orchestra. In April 1956 they were sufficiently encouraged to try a public concert, and audience response was so enthusiastic that the Moscow Chlimber Orchestra became a permanent ensemble. In the next 23 years, the group went on to achieve worldwide fame, consistently playing to packed halls and making numerous recordings. The current tour includes an appearance as part of the Great Performers at Lincoln Center series and performances in Boston, and Washington, D.C. as well. The Mos~ow Chamber orchestra will perform Wed., Oct. 4 in Memorial Chapel. \Not the least among their players are outstanding while accomplishn)ents is the Moscow their combined. achtevement js Chamber Orchestra's talent for one of great flexibility, ac- firing familiar works with such curacy and sensitivity all a surge of new life that one .presented with a dynamic range seems to ~ hearing them for of surprising breadth,'' a the fitst ,ti.n:)e/' a New Yotk Washin.gton Post reviewer has Times critic wrote. written. -. Subscriptions to the concert series, which is entitled ''An International Festival ·Of Chamber Music VII,\ co~ $20. Series subscriptions and tickets for individual concerts are available in advance from the Schenectady Musewn or at the dob-r the night of the concert. ''The individual skills of the :slllllllllllllllllltllllllllllllllllllflllllllllllllfllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllliiiiiiiii.IIIIIUIIIIIs ·~ ~· .·· ' . ;_ 5 .· = - - . ' = = . ' . = - . - = = = = Freshman Impressions by ALISsA SCHRAG IN Upon their arrival to Union on September 16, the members of the Class of 1982 were greeted· by: cloudy skies and rainy weather, which they were later to learn was typical Schenec- tady weather. Despite the dampness, the freshmen employed parents. and various other individuals to carry . the seemingly endless array of. boxes and suitcases into the dorms. The dorm rooii1S were one of many surprises the freshmen were to receive. Some people were greeted with lovely artwork bequeathed by a previous tenant. Others, to use an extreme example, inherited a room with green walls and purple furniture. Once the initial shock of the rooms was over, the names which had appeared faceless on a piece of paper sent out by the Housing Office, transformed ipto · living room~ates. Greetings· were stiff at first as the ·unpacking started. Semi- unpacked, everyone filed into Memorial Chapel for President Auburn's convocation. This was followed l)y a reception in front. ()f Chester Arthur's statue, which the weather cleared for. As soon as the parents were disposed, the freshmen settled down and began meeting people. . Orientation activities started with the various orientation groups. These meetings were followed by floor meetings and floor parties. The next day dawned with .a· Freshman Survey. The No. 2 pencils, which so long ago had = -=' been discarded, were dug out ; · I_f you desit'e to .procrastinate ~ and put to use answering a = r = multitude of questions. ranging ; Or ·have ideas you. want to state ;a . ~from political views to personal :: Please write us a poem. or-two 5 habits. Tours of the campllS 5 'Cause Fine Lines wants you! · .. : ·.?-'. ·$5 . followed.the slll'Vey. A picnic at 5 ; . '>· _ ,;a ~~~ry~~~~ithcf::!e~ngr~:~~; jpi~ase send. anY poems to Box 1~, Jan Pe ~ek~, ~:m~·Line~.,i · for the afternoon until the 5Editor: (They .can be aponymous if you want.~ . .·. , . § __ typical Schenectady weather i · . § , struck with rain. · 5 iii The freshmen met with their § Gazing · . . . iii · advisors on Monday. On § 5 ., Tuesday, they registered ac- · 5 There is nothing like . iii · cording to orientation groups. § the freedom of a mountain top 5 , On that day, the new students § th..e omnipotent power of 5 were also exposed to the various § unint~rrupted ga~e 5 activities at Uf1ion. At night the § affected only by the occasional passing, . 5 Men's and Women's Glee Clab 5 of a cloud. .5 gave a conc~rt in the Memorial § ;:: Chapel. ·\A square dance in th.e § There is nothing like 5 Library Plaza rounded off tl;te ~ the sleepy morning softness 5 evening as well as the entire § of two warm bodies 5 orientation period. 5 closely nestled, entwined as one, 5 . = = s as Qne lgver g~es to the other. · iii - - =' = - - § There is nothing like . , 5 a the close deep shar.ing of love = 5 the touch, the kiss, 5 Mountebanks Begins SeasOn by MARIA BRUCCULERI The Union College theatre group, The Mountebanks, has another year of dramatic lunacy. . Friday evening, students dining in West College choked as they were shoc}ted to see what appeared to be a gun chase through the cafeteria. Actors not only shot at each other with cap-guns, but also dressed in a variety of amusing costumes to publicize the Calendar ... Mountebank Open House which took place at Nott Memorial on Saturday afternoon. Balloons abounded as a parade circled the campus encouraging students to see the group's displays of costumes, make-up, photographs, set des!gn, lighting and every other aspect of theatre. This year's first production, Tom Paine, has already started with auditions on Sunday and Monday. The play is scheduled for November loth through the § the trembling ot fUlfilled love ' :: ~ and the returned gaze. 5 18th. Get involved with The Mountebanks; they're \Nott like anything else.\ = 5 = M = 5 onymous 5 - - = ~ ~lllllllllllillllllllllllllllliiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiUIIIIIIIIIIIII!iiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiUIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIF Area Calendar Music 75 New Scotland Ave., Albany. Continuing atthe Junior College For further information call of Albany is the showing of the On Oct. 1, at 8:00 p.m., Nick 436-7371._ .,., prints of Peter Sowiski in the Brignola will be featured in · 0 T d o t 3 't' w c R, athb·on· ·e Gallery. The gallery . P u 11 t n ues ay, 'c . ; 1 s .• concert 10 · age -na .· a - Fields Day at the JCA (Junior hours are 1-6 p.m., and the show Albany's College of General c 11 f Alb ) L'b · th will r. un until Oct. 19. Studies. Playing sets along with 0 ege 0 · any 1 rary; e Continued fr~_m page 11 · Nick will be Helen Hrimes and showings will be at 11 = 15 a.m. Russell Sage College is showing Chet Baker. For information and 1 :ao p.m. seven artists courtesy of the BEER-HOT DOGS-HAM• BURGERS~FRlSBEES­ FUN-All for just $1:00 at the ENGINEERING DEPART· MENT PICNIC! ! ! S1;ln<Uly, October 8 from 2-6 p;m.l. in Jackson's Gardens. Join~tislfor an afternoon of fun ~J)d eating- meet the professors and aJ4c some upperclass students, ~s well as more in your own class. All students interested in engineeririg are welcome. Sign up in the Student Activities Office so we have a general idea Sponsored . jointly by ASCE, ASME, and IEEE. SEE YOU THERE!!! ···············································-····························:·.· .. •.•.-:.·.·····-·····-······ ... ·.,.·························-·.!.· .. ···········-· .. •·•· MUSIC THEATRE FILM ARTS .call472-6695. Exhibits }{ornblee Gallery In New York Wednesday, oct. 4, Alannah \l'his m()ntb in· S.U.N.Y.A.'s City continuing through Oct. 22. Fine Arts building on The exhibit can be ·seen in the ·Fitzgerald- and Mark Cushing Washington Ave. in Albany two New Gallery·, Schacht Fine Arts will be playing Celtic in- d strwnents in the Perk-U·Later exhibits will be going on. The Center, 9·5 p.m.,.Mon.-Fri., an Coffeehouse from 1 until 3 p.m. sculpture of David Hayes will 2-5 p.m. on S~m .. show until Nov. 1, and an .en- FilQJ.s vironmental exhibition about Lectures unsighted people called I Am On Wednesday, Sept. 27, the The Did You See That Movie- Not Blind will run until·.pct. 22. Eighthstep Coffeehouse on 14 film series will , present Gallery hours: closed Mon.; Willett St. in Albany: Will Federico Fellini's Italian Tues.;o;Fri. 9-5p,m.; Thurs. 'til& pr~sent Diane Shur of the \Are You Interested: masterpiece, 8V2. The movie p.m.; Sat. and Sun.14 p.m. For 8 · .. 1 .. t w 1. ' Part·y Ms Want to write about them will be shown on Sept. 29 at 8.:00 ftirthtJr information contact · ocia lS -· orn.er 8 · · · · • • for Con<:ordiensis: ·and 10:00 p.m., and on the 3oth Marijo Fasulo, Assistant Shur will Speak on \What ~~~~!:~~ti;:;~~~~~;::ro~~~~~g~J~~;f;~~;·~,; . .:;a::,t ,;.8;.;;:3;;;.0.:;P•·m,;;;;· ,;..· in;,;...A_u_di ... ·t_o .. ri_um_o_n_e.;.' _.;D;.;ir;;.;e;.;ct.;;o;.;t\.;... ___ .....,.._- ___ ... s_o_c_ia•l-is-ts·B-el-ie .. v .. e_il_a_t -8-:4·5-p ... m .. · _.· bySTEVJ The new··~ Are You,'' Wl reviewed so1 this issue, b cancelled at due to its wr tend a three ternoo11 cl~ materialize, provided a fil to introduce week, the Ste Th~ · Gibbons supporting a< shOw in New that time VI touted aroun vocalist Roge years later, t say) history Gibbons Band lilllelight of r CATA Se P.C 12\ ch~ 16\ ChE 12\ Del 16'' Del 12\ Wor 16\ Wor ADDITH Sausage Pepp~ror Ham

OONOORDIENSIS~ September 28~ 1978 ·Page 9 culture ' AU Kindsa M-usic ' G.ibbons :Ban·d • 1n ~imelight by STEVE MONOSSON The new 'Who album . ''Who . ·~ , Are You,'' was supposed to be reviewed somewhere el~e in this issue, but U had to be cancelled at the last. moment due to its writer having to at,- tend a three hour Tuesday af- ternooil class.. lf it did materialize, it would have prc,llded a fine reference point to introduce the band of the week, the Steve Gibbons Band. Th~ · Gibbons Band were the supporting act. at. the ·last Who show in New York City, and at that time was being. highly touted 11round town\ by ;Who vocalist Hoger Daltrey. Se.veral years later,. the Who is (sa<,i to say) history and the Steve Gibbons Band has come .jato the limelight of rock anp rolL _The album, \Down in the Bunker,'; canvasses emotions and topics as if they were courses in a dinner-the songs are. individually distinctive yet fonn a complete \meal\ to be consumed and enjoyed as a , whole. ''No Spitting on the Eus\ opens up· the disc with tile busdriver . (narrator-Gibbons:) insisting on respect for llis person and belongings while not caring what goes on otherwist): \But it don't matter what you feel You can beg, borrow or ·steal .. But as long as I'm holdili' 'the wheel · I don't want no spittin' on the bus.\ . · · ' An irresistible guitar line holds the piece together., an effectjve openerfall in all. The . CATALOG of COLLEGIATE RESEARCH Over 10,000 listings!. All subjects. Send NOW forth is FREE catalog. (offer expires Dec. 31. 1978) Send to: COLLEGIATE RESEARCH P.O. Box 84~96, Los Angeles, CA 90073 ·~ ~ . ., · .. :. . ; MENU 12'' c·h. · P' · $2 75 . eese 1zza .............. , . . . • . . 16\ Cheese Pizza .................. $4.00 title track is \Down in the Bu~ker,\ an intriguing bit whose tune slinks along, drawing the listener in to be finally \bombarded\ with the final line of the first stanza:.· \And the girl from the bunker was flasi;Jing her beautiful body.\ The .identity f.lrreality of this girl is never· revealed, nor whether Gibbons is hiding for cover on a battlefield o0r lurking around a .golf course. It is mysteries such as these which make this record such a joy and a challenge, \Mary Ain't Goin' Home,\ a tale of interracial romance, is a wc:mk of briUiant ph['asing coupled with catchy, fluent music and lyrics. Here Gibbons vocalizes in the finest tradition of Bob Dylan, a stylization which sometimes borders too close to impersonation. But in this number .it works to a tee and Gibbons comes off with yet another spellbinder. ''Down in the City'' offers another hustling Gibbons character out for whatever gusto he can grab (I've heard that somewhere before ... ), no matter what the persoasion: '''Down in the city One man's poison is another tnan's· meat · Mickey knows ~: really well Sometimes .it's heaven, sometimes it's hell.\ Eddy Vortex,\ a salute to the new wave rockers, highlights side two with its Eddie Cochran inspired riffing and Steve Gibbons brand humor. A simple but endearing love song called \Grace\ fittingly enough closes a .top class LP. The Steve Gibbons Band should be heard from in the future. All tastes Should find something here. Incidentally, if the -girl from the bunker looks anything like the one pictured on the back of the album, I hope she wasn't a mirage brought on by battle fatigue. j Union Chamber Music~ by ALISSA SCHAGRJN, A contemporary organization of anold.artmayfind it's way to Union in the form of chamber music. Professor Sheinkinan, new this year to the arts departrpent, would like to organize .several chamber music groups to perform during the year. This form of music originated in the late 16th, early 17th century. Chamber music is said to have a personal character because it is intended to be performed in a room or c!Jamber. However, today, chamber music is often heard in a concert hall. Some still do perform in the intimate at- mosphere. The m,unber of players in the Continued on page 4 , In Its 49th Season, the Schenectady Concert Association Presents Four Master Concerts The Belgrade Chamber Orchestra with Lynn Harrell. Conductor and Cellist ' Tuesday, October 17, 1978 Jeffrey Chappell. Pianist Wednesday, Decen;ber 6, 1978 .. ' The Columbus Boychoir The Rochester Donald Hanson, Director Philharmonic Thursday, February 15, 1979 wilh David Zinman. Conductor For Information Call Tueadey, 374-2624 or 370-0410 March 'D, 1979 FREE DELIVERY WITHIN OUR DELIVERY AREA t ( 30< minute service) CALL 382-3838 Also 10 minute take out Cou.nter Service All Concerts Nisk;~yuna Hig· School 8:30P.M. ~----~--------~-----~~------~-, OPEN DAILY 12\ Deluxe Combo .................. $4.55 · I 1 ! '1.00 16 • · .o· · 1 c· ·b ·s· · e uxe om o . . . . . . . . . . . . . • .. . . 6. 40 12'' Works Pizzo .................... $5.45 16\ Works Pizza: ........... ···:·\ $7.60 ADDITIONAL ITEMS · · -For 12\ . - 45c Sausage Pepp~roni Ham Onions Mushrooms Thick Crust For 16\ -- 60c Green Pe.ppers Ground Beef 4 p.m.· 1 a.m. Fri. & Sat. 4 p.m.· 2 a.m. I I : OFF I i · ANY LARGE PIZZA I 1 1 coupon per pizza . 1 I I I I ; good now thru Sun. Oct. 1, 1978 : L------------------------------ ~-------------------------------------------------------~--~--~------------------------------------------------~

Page 10 New Food Service by ELLEN GREEN RSVP food service, directed here by Eugene Lab'bat, has replaced Saga food service in West dining hall. The new service offers rneal plans-a 19 meal plan including breakfast, lunch, dinner, and weekend brunch; a 14 meal plan that excludes breakfast during the week; and a 10 meal .plan. The menu has not changed much from last year's. 'lliere are currently two hot selections fo .? lunch and dinner, including meat and meatless entrees. An additional meat selection is added to the dinner menu. Meat is now also served at breakfast three times a week. After complaints about last weekend's meatless brunch, meat will also be served at these meals. ~VP has a special dinner program as well. Once a :month there will be a ''theme\ meal, featuring a special ethnic or holiday banquet. Twice a month there will be a ''pace-changer,\ with an unusual . entree or dessert serv~d~ Once a week a premium item such as shrimp, steak, or prime ribs will be offered. However, no seconds will be permitted. Finally, RSVP plans a Monday night steak raf.fle during which 25 student J.D. numbers on the meal plan will be drawn. Winners' names will be posted and they will be entitled to a steak that evening. Everyone on the plan will \win\ once a tenn. The kitchen and dining hall are still undergoing transition. Fire, cont. Continued from page 1 WHAT TO DO IF A FIRE DOES BREAKOUT. If you can get to a phone, call the fire department im- mediately. Unless the fire is very small, do not try to put it out Too of- ten, attempts to put out a fire end in deaths caused by srnol{e inhalation. Should a fire break out at night, and you ;tte awakened by smoke, do not open the bedroom door unless the door is cool. .Even if the door is cool, open it slowly. If trapped in a room, attempt to exit thl'ougp your window. Many studerits have apart- ments on the third floor, making window exits too dangerous~ Nonetheless, open the window and stay by it. The open window will provide a source of fresh air and will' act as a signal to rescuers. If trapped on th~ third floor, do not jump unless absolutely necessary. Hang a sheet out the window as a distress signal to firewen. Attempts to reach other oc- cupants in the apartp>.ent should not be made. Rather, yell in- ·;tructions to others in the tpartment but make no attempt : o reach them. Only When safe .hould an effort be made to nform rescuers of the :hereabouts of others trapped · 1y the fire. Smoke rises to the ceiling. When trapped in a room and awaiting help, stay low to the floor where the air is fresb. WHAT TO DO IF YOU SEE A FIRE IN ANOTHER BUILDING On the average, the fire department can resJ)ond to an alarm in three minutes. Before anything is done to either put . out the fire or attempt a rescue, call the fire department. Only then should an effort bEl' rnade to aid the rescue. No effort should be made to enter the building. OONOORDIENSIS, September 2$, 1~78 West Already new coolers have been added, the kitchen has been rearranged, and the serving area enlarged. There are also- - plans to build a dessert bar from which ice cream can be served. One minor annoyance in the new set-up is that students are now requestea to return trays at a new dish washing window, often r.esu:lting in long lines. RSVP encourages students' suggestionsaboutthis and other parts of the service and hopes to include students in a food · committee designed to insure feedback. E Graduate School of Business Administration A representative of the Graduate School of Bu .ness Admin·istration will be on campus Wednesday, Oct. 4' by DOUG ROSENFELD Upperelass students, as an alternative to .fraternity and co- op dining, \fast-food\ frenzy, and frosh-full West, . have available the Hale House meal plan. For $280 a term, ten meals per week-lunch ·and dinner, Monday through Friday--are . prQvided. What the initiator of the prog.ram, Ang,elo Mazzone, director of college food ser· vices., perceived at first as a tentative experiment has blossomed into a hearty suc- cess. Having ,origin~lly counted on a sign-up of 109 students, Mazzone greatly un- derestimated the program'& appeal. To date, more than 150 people have signed up, and Mazzone bas instituted a waiting li$t~ .· . Apparently the success of the ope.ration is well-deserved .. Interviews with diners were to c.:scuss the Duke MBA Program. Interested students may obtain .furfher in- formation by confacting. the Placem:ent Office. · positive. Both the food quality . , and quantity ·are hailed by Saga refugees as well as those unacauaU~ted witll tbe old food service. The dining hall is appreciated as unhurried and comfortably designed. Perhaps the only compfaint lodged was a request for more vegetarian,-Qriented meal alternatives. 1\nout the Hale food prograrn, Mazzone insists that 1 'we don't want to make money'; and \we're here as a service.\ . In addition to the new meal service at Hale, Mr\Zzone noted ,tltat the facilities, that t'had been terrible'' have been upgraded, with $11,000 in financing from the College. Among the renovatiops · hav~ been, for the Hale kitchen; a new .cb!lr-btoiler, walk•in free.zer, and stainless steel .preparation tables. The dining room was• also repainted and new drapes were hung dllring the summer. 'So enthusiastic has 'been the response to the new service that the College administration is now lo()king into the possibility of either expanding the .Hale prQgram or instituting yet another._ . / First annual Rudnick& - . design a T- shirt contest .... - ~ ...... _ -- ·--· --- -·--- -- - ...... -- NOW'S YOUR CHANCE TO BECOME A DESIGNER AND HAVE OTHERS ·wEAR WHAT YOU WANT I THERE 'S ONL.. Y A FEW THJNGS THAT ARE A Mi.JST {THERE :S A CATCH TO E'VERYTHJNG)- OESIGN MUST INCLUDE THE NAME RtJD/!IICI($ BOL-DLY (THE CONTEST IS NICE 8UT WE'VE GOT TO C~ENCIA.t/.r£) .. 1T MUST BE'~ ABLE. TO BE REPRODUCED IN ON£C.O/...DR(WE ARE BASICALLY CHEAP) •.. ALL SUBM:ITTED DE.SJGNS(JF NOT SUBMITTED WE WOUL.ON'T 1-fAV£ IT ANYWAY) WIL..L BECOME THE' PROPERTY OF RUDNICK'S .... THE WINNING DES/ON WILL BE' FEATURED ON THIS YE.Ar:ts 'T=SH/117: IN ADDITION WE WILL PAY THE' W/NNIAIO ENTRY $3.5' FIRSr Pl.A C£ AWARD (W£ 1 Tl:JLD YOU WE WE'RE CHEAP)~ SO IF YOUR GOING TO 0000/..C - DO fT WITH C/..19$$. CUT OUT THE DESIGN AND BP.ING IT IN TO THE STORE {MAYBE WE CAN SELL VOU ON OUR l-OW P/IIC£S) OP. MAll- IT T() .: · _ · · R(IDNICJf 'S Q08 SrAT£ STREeT SCHENECTADI:M'I IR-301 . ALL ENTRIES MUST BE RECElV£1). BY ocroiJER ti,,lf78 •!.• .l· I . - BULLETll Schaffer L Tegular. ht · September : ·Mon.-Thurs. Fri. Sat. Suno We willhol< ·on Resume Search and · starting the in the PlacE Mondays• . Writing Tues~·3:Y Search and Please 1 · workshops· . • Pb,1ce~ent 1 The Plac4 · Resow:-~~~. C inform~tion fellowships: : ·t:-·Tbe \I ~dation 'FeU · :Education i .Museum of City···~ A~ November 1 2. · Hug Program iJ Technolog~ Fellowship means· to ~ · and pursuE simultaneot ·For additi contaet Pla - ·.The first 1 (American Mechanical Tuesday, 0 -NW 222 (abc: Bring any i1 for speaker ~nd progr Refreshrile11 BEER& M .. RIDE BC Ride wante preferably · anywhere m on Thursda: David at 371 · Ride wante< or vicinity1 September2 370-6178. Ride wante< Island or rriday, Se · Mike Skliar , Ride wantec pn Friday, !'vlark Blwnl Ride wante< ~n Friday, David Epplt Ride wantec on Friday, Raymonda 8848. Ride wantec on Friday, Lydia Cana Ride wan1 CountyonF Call J oanm Ride wantet vicinity on 29. Call Da· 6646. HELP W, Attention: J writing for comeonup1 or the Cone third floor , 6155 and 13 assignment~

OONCORDIENS,18 11 September 8$, 19\18 Page 1i ' . .. classifieos BULLETIN BOARD Schaffer Library will begin ,regular. hours Wedne~day, · September 20.: ·Mon.-Thurs. · 8·:30 a.rn.-11 p.m. Fri. 8:30 a.Jil.·lO p.m. Sat. 9 a.m . ..5 p.m. Suno noon•ll p.m. We wUr hold weekly workshops on Resume Writing aqd Job . Se~rch and Interviewing Skills starting the week of October 2nd in the Placement Offic-e~ Mondays...:3:30-4: 30·-.Resume Writing Tuesdays·-3: 30·4 :30--.Jo b Search and Interviewing Skills Pleas~ . sign U.p .f<;~r the · workshops beforehand at the Placement Office. The PJ.acen;~.ept . ~ . Gare~r · Resow~~s· Office, just received infonn~tion .. on · ~lle following fellowsl:lips:: : . : · L-The ·RocltefeUer Fo·u.n-, ~dation Fellowship in ·Museum Anyone interested in running Cabaret's Game Night (Tuesday, 9-12:30, hours flexible) contact Cathy at 374- 8176 after 11 .p.m.. WANTED: Aggressive person to earn excellent money ($6-$1o- • . hr.) selling paraphernalia on · campus. Must put in 6-:lO·hours- weeko- CQntact: Blown-Away Enter· pri$es, Inc., 272, North Kings •. Avenue, North Massapequa, N.Y. 11758. ZBT -&uper party last Friday night, ·especially that' .dynamite punch.· Thankst S.L. · :Educalion in :tlfe Metropolitan . MUseum of Art in 'New York:. ~ ZB.1'-J3est frat .~p,arty I',ve .City·· ·~ Applic~ti9-n. tiead~ln(· . ~e~ to in a wh~Je ' · November l~ 1978 ; · · ·- ··Pufter .Boys-Your.· turn next! .· 2. · Hughes Fellowship · · Program in Engineering and Technology. The- · ~ Hq;ghes · WlZ, Fellowship Prograrri-·provides· •· ,Great to have your {back) means· to advance ii1 cateets again. With love, the Giller Monster· and pursue graduate degree · simultaneously. ·For additional information, contaet Placement Office. - . · The first meeting of ASME (American · Sociely of Mechanical Engineers) will be_ Tuesday, October 3 at 7:30 in -NW 222 (above the physics la~). Bring any ideas you may ~ave for speakers\ tours. acti:Vities ;iand programs Jn ge,net3·1. ' Refreshments will &e pro\ltded- BEER & MUNOHIES. ~ .. RIDE BO.ARD Ride wanted to Long Island, preferably ·· Stony Brook, . but anywhere near the city will do, on Thursday, October 5. Call David at 370-6649. · Ride wanted to Nassau County or vicinity, leaving. Friday, · September29. Call Josh Rapp at 370-6178. Sally and Marty; . · · _ Where's the }1Qt carrier?' Third Floor ... Davidson North, .. What's going on? Somebody alive.· up there?· How about a. · midnight party? G;M.&J.G. ZBT-Do you have anymore like JoAnne'? F.S. ZBT--Beautiful barmaids.! Can't wait for your next party. A.B. CAMPUS CALENDAR . · Social Committee meeting m the Student Activities Lounge, Thursday,September28 at 7:00. Get involved!· ·. The Stone Boat Club will have Jts first meeting this year on 'Thurs., Sept. 28 at 7:30 p.m. in Butterfield 102. Anyone in· Achilles Rink Schedule Achilles Rink will officially open Friday, September 29, 1978 at 8: 30 p.m. for Public Skating. Full time Union College students: · Your I.D. Card will admit you free of charge to ~se the following General Open Skating Hours: Monday-Friday: 1:00-3:00 p.m. The following hours have also been scheduled for General :Operi Skating~ Admittance to these' hours, however, will require your I.D. as well as a $1.00 fee: . Friday evenings: 8:3().;10.:00 . p.J11; Saturdays: 1:()()-2:30 p.m.; 3:()()..4:30· p.m. Sundays: 1:00-2:30 p.m.; 3:00- 4:~0 p.m. ' . Faculty _and_ staff: Every full time member oJ the faculty and sta~f must i}ave an I.D. Card. Tlie I.D. Card:wm admit, ·free·of chatge,-the l.D. holder to use the following General Open Skating Hours. Monday-Friday: 1 :·00·3l00 p.m. .. · ·. hnmediate family members Qf I .. D. holder may also enjoy the above, providing they are Have Somethlng to / Advertise? Contact Concordy· 370-6155 accompanied by the I.D. Card holder. The following hours have also been scheduled for General Open Skating. Admittance will require your I.D. Card as well as a $1.00 fee .per person. Friday: 8:30-10.:00 p.m. Satqrday: 1 :00•2: 30 p.m.; 3: 00-4: 30 p.m. Sunday: 1:()0-2:30 p.m.; 3:00- 4:30, (hiD. Public .Skating will be can- celled the following days and dates · due to Union College . Varsity Home Games, practices and holidays: Friday, ·Nov .. 17, 8:3o-10:00 p.m.-Varsity game vs. Elmira Thursday, Nov.. 26--Rink Closed-Thanksgiving Friday, Dec. 1, ... 8:30-10:00 p.m.-Varsity Game vs. Pot- sdam Saturday, Dec. 9, 3-4:30 p.m.- · VarSity Practice . · . Fri!iay, Dec.1.5, 8:.3()..10 p.m.- Holiday Tournafue~t- ·. . Saturday, Dec. 16, 1-2':30 p.m.; 3-4:30 p.m.--Holiday Tournament Sunday, Dec. 24, 1·2:30 p.m.- . C-ancelled. There will be Public Skating from 3-4:30 p.m. Monday, · Dec. 25--Rink Closed-Merry Chrictmas Sunday, Dec. 31, 1-2:30 p.m.-- Cancelled. There will be Public Skating from 34:30 p.m. Monday, Jan. 1-RinkClosed- Happy New Year Friday, Jan. 26, 1979, 8:30-10 p.m.-Varsity Game vs. Buffalo Friday, Feb. 9, 1979, 1-3 p.m.- Varsity Hockey Practice Sunday, April 1, 1979, 1-2:30 p.m.-Cancelled. There will be Public Sltating from 3-4::30 p.m. 'Friday,April6, 1979, 1-3 p.m.- Achilles Fig. Skating Club P.ractice; 8:30·10 p.m.-Achilles Fig. Skating Show Saturday,-April .. 7, 1979~ 3-4:30. p.m.--Achilles Fig. Skating · Show. There. will be Public Skating 1-2:30 .porn. Public Skating Rates Children under 12 yr~ of age- $1.00 Adults-$1.50 ATTENTION STUDENTS INTERESTED lN MBA PROGRAMS ,, .~... ~ ·. A representative of the Syracuse University School ot Management MBA Program will be on Campus on: <Friday, October 6, 1978 A.M. 9:00 9:45 10:30 11:15 P.M. 1:30 2:15. For further information, and an appointment, . please contact your Placement-Career Services office. Ride wanted to Wantagh, Long· terested in finding out about the . Island or vicinity, leaving . ~concrete canoe project will be r-----------------:-,.----------------------~ ~riday, September 29. Call·· allowed to . attend. Anyone · Mike Skliar at 370-6660. coming only for the cookies will \ .. ·a. .. · alsobewelcome.Ifyouwishto THE~· Fine Food In A Ride ~anted to Nassau County ~ actually work with the club, pn Friday, September 29. Call[,:;: help is needed I)Ot only to make cmn. ~~rrv '. ~ Casual Atmo. sphere ±dark Blwnkin at 37~918. .' .t.~ mud patties, but to design · . L.Jtj~ L ·R: .d t d t.· N Y k.C::.t ;·: graphics to be painted on the . BOG '· , . , 1 e wane · o ew or . .l y·· canoe, look for new materials, . • · !)n Friday, September 29. ca.n·. do publicity, destructively test A NI.Ce Way To End The Day David Eppler at 370-6917. · :: ·. samples, hake cookies, and, of Restaurant . · . • Ride wanted to New York CitY' on Friday, September 29. Calf . Raymonda Tompkins at 382-. • 8848. Ride wanted to New York City on Friday, September 29. Call Lydia Canavan at. ~82-8848. _. _.- Ride wanted. to Rockland County on Friday September 29. Call Joanne Stein at ~70-6727. Ride wanted to New Haven or vicinity on Friday, S,eptember 29. Call David Spivack at 370- . 6646. HELP WANTED Attention: Anyone interested in writing for Cot~cordy please come on up toStudent Activities or. the Concordy Office on the thll'd floor of Carnegie or call 6155 and ask for an article assignment; · ' course, to paddle. Although 56 Wolf Road Across From·Colonie Ce-nter Colonie some members purport to be · engineers, such charades are Open Daily 459 5110 riot required. All are welcome. · Reserv~tion Suggested . - · . German-speaking Lunch Table ·l~B:. a~·r:)(~i-~ut.:·t~Fac:-i~l~it~it.~'s~A~. :va~· ~il:a:b~lt.~' -~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~ , every Thursday 12 to 1 o'clock · in the Dutch Hollow Pub. Gemutliches Peutschsprechen. . beim gemutlichen Mittagessen! Cabaret this-week: Pete Sears-folk music Other act to be aiUJounced MG-Gary Glauber Incidental piano-Todd Miller Shows 9:00 & 11:00 $1.00-per'son Tickets on sale at 8:00 in the front hall at Carnegie. Any tickets left over will be sold at the door. · Dr. Thoma$ Eisner will give a general talk on ·\Insects as Chemists,\ Thursday, October . 5, 7:30 p.m. in SS 016. Reception to follow, the campus is1nvited; Continued on page 8 1 st Pub Disco and li.ght show- Tue~dCiy, October 3 .. 9:00 to 2:00 \ Co~~ .Down and Boogie! Dutch Hollow Pub Happy Hour Tuesday and Friclay 9:30- 10:30 All H.ouse Drinks 50c Free Popcornl

OONOOBDIENSIS, September s~. 1978. 5port5 • : • ' ~ _-' • - ' c ' ' ' • • - - Junior Peter Valklnburgh gild's by resting Rochester de.fender en route to enemy goal at Daley Field. Dutchmen return home Oc- tober 2. . . - . . Booters Off on_ Right Foot by DAVID SHAPIRO Last Thursday at Daley Field, the Union College soccer team opened its season in grand style by shutting out the University of Rochester, 6.0. The first eight minutes of the game .saw U. of R. apply pressure to the Dut- chman defense, but goaltender Doug Crawford; along with fullbacks Mike Mulpeter, Bob Hogan and Jim Manning did a fine · job of turning back the Yellow Jackets' attack. Chris Walsh, debuting as sweeper; was also instrumental in keeping U. of R. scoreless. Freshman reserve Hans Bukow got the Union attack rolling at 35: 28 of the first half when he beat his defender one• on\One and drilled a 4Q-yard bullet the Yellow Jacket __ Jletmltna,er. This goal proved to be crucial in swinging . the momentwn over to the Dut~ chmen. With 9: 17left inthe.half, senior Pete Handy headed in a Jamie Hilton thr-ow and the-half ended wUh Union in fr.ont, 2.:0. After intermission, the Dutchmen picked up where they left off with Pete Handy scoring on a breakaway. Instrumental • in Handy's goal and in setting the pace for the whole team, was the play uf senior co- captain John Kovacs. Kovac~, injured much -of ·last season, ,prc;>ved to be back in fine health when he connected on a ptll\fect breakaway pass to' Bukow :for the fourth goal. Continuing !tis uncanny passing, Kovacs, with 8:.07 remaining, hit Keith Miller from the corner, resulting in the fifth goal. Four minutes later Kovacs completed Union's scoring by beating U. of R. ,goalie Tony Mobiliu for Union•s si:Uh and final tally of' the af- ternoon. . Union's shutout brought a momentary smile to Coach Bob Mager, who admitted that even he could not be glum. with a6..() opening game victory. On Sattll1day, the. Dutclunen traveled to Long Island and once again Mager would. be able to smile. Sparked by the efforts -of J()hn Kovacs and Paul Marvin, the Union boolers defeated a highly regarded Kings Point soccer club by a score of 2-1. · Union's scoring . was a com· bination of luck and op· portunism.- Co-cap~ain _Jim Manning's free kick led to Union's initial goal in the first half. As the Kings Point .goalt.enqer- slipped and los~ t~e ball on the muddy. field, Marvm alertedly proceeded to poke the loose ballmto tne open net. The second Union goalm_!!terialized when a st~eaking Ki>vacs came t)ut of nowhere to bead a cen· tering pass from Marvin past a startled goaltender. The Merchant .Marines scored their only goal: v.ritb 25:~0 remaining in the · sec<>nd tuilf, but Goalie Doug Cra-wford and the Dut· chmen defense thereafter proved in.ore than - eqtia:l to stoppingthe Merchant Marines attack. This victory, coupled. with tile opening g~me success . caused Mager to conunent, \l would say we definitely have the best team sincE 1975, when Craig. Jeffries played, and we r,nay have- a stronger fullback line than we had then.\ The team will be on the r.~d for the next three . games against Army,. St. _Lawrence, and Hamilton before returning home on ()ctober 8th for the annual alwnni game . Football Suffers Disappointing Opener by KEN PLUMB With an- abundance of returning letterman at key positions and two solid showings in scrinunages against highly touted Amherst a11d Wesleyan the Dutchmen confidently marched into Lewiston; Maine to take on Bates College. Key mistakes and an unsuccessful kicking game, hov.rever, marred Unions opener as the Bobcats handed them their first loss of the season in a 48-32 thriller. The day had started out on a favorable note fDr the Dut- chmen when three year starter at linebacker, junior Ron Plumb, highlighted an out- standing performance by bottling up a Bates sweep, jarring the ball loose, and recovering it on the Bobcat 14. At this point, the Union offense, led by its all-ECAC backfield of senior quarterback Andy Terranova, junior halfback Rich Romer and Junior .fullback Doug Napadono, took over. Four plays later th.e Dutchmen struck paydirt as Romer plunged over from the two early in the second period. The extra point was missed and Union led 6.0. The rest of the second period was not as kindly to the Dut- chmen, however, as Bates piled up 4 quick scores. The first, a 63- yard drive, put the Bobcats ahead by a 7-6 margin_. It was then that the real damage oc- curred as Union beat them~ selves by literally handing their opponents 3 consecutive touch- downs in under two minutes time. A 17 yard punt from the Union 25 gave Bates excellent. field position and it took Bobcat quarterback Chuck Laurie, 9-16- 1, for 90 yards, just four .plays to manuever his team into the end zone while hitting on his second of five touchdown passes. The Dutchmen than proceeded to cough up the ball on their next two possessions-first in the form of a fumbled snap on a punt attempt-and the second on a fumbled pitchout. Both errors gave the Bobcats the ball deep in Dutchmen territory with the end result, a halftime score of Bates 27 and Union 6. Undaunted, the Dutchmen put their high-powered offense into gear as Terranova, 15-3&:;(1, for · 279 yards, guided the team towards its second score following the second half , kickoff. JUilior tight end Kevin Schenectady Comtnunity College transfer Joe Po.letto, who hauled in six receptions for 157yards, including two TO's. ~ Eberly provided, the key play of the drive with a remarkable diving catch of a Terranova aerial. The play netted 40 yards and seconds later Terranova rolled right only to spot second year starter Joey ·Poletto for a 30 yard score. Bates immediately regained the momentum, however, when on their first play from scrimmage Fullback Dave Carter popped .UP the middle and outrcm the pursuit the remaining 54 yards . for the scQre. Union still refused to concede as the Dutchmen put together two scoring drives mainly relying .on Napadono up the middle, Romer on the option and some timely passing by Teranova. Andy did the hOnors the first time around with a 7 yard keeper ·while Nap~dono hulled his way over from· the 3 for the second score. The score now stood at 34-26 and with 7:47 left in the game, and with a defense that had tightened up considerably, the outcome remained far from certain. On the Bobcats next possession the Dutchmen were able to hold them for no gain on the first two downs, thus creating a third and long situation while also setting the .stage for the second con- troversial call of the game. Early in the first period 'the Dutchmen had been angered when a Bates defender ap- parently grabbed the facemask of Union sophomore receiver Hepry Wright and a call of pass interference was not made. The play cost Union an almost certain score. This time, However, pass interference was called only it was the-Dutchmen who again. were the victims as junior defensive back Kevin Korm~mdy appeared to have legitimately .batted away . a desperation pass by Laurie. The official claimed that he had bumped the receiver while going for . the ·ball and Bates found itself with a first down in Union territory. Several plays later Bates marched into the end zone for the score. The Bobcats tallied once more on an 11 yard drive as Union was forced. to try on a fourth and long deep in their own territory. The Dutcbmen did add a final score when Terranova once again hit Poletto with a scoring toss, this time from 26 yards out. The game was a tough one for Union to lose as .the offense racked- up almost 500 yards in total offense. Both the rlliU)ing and,passing game clicked as the offensive line led by jWiior guard Wa~ne Tunic arid also consisting Qf Junio.rs Bill Egan and Gordon . SiQgle, sophomore . Doug FergUsion and Freshm,en Mike Dana consiStently bet· tered a :much larger Bates defensive llllit. A solid second half per· formance by the defense kept Contiliued ()B page 3 Kovacs·· Returns to Lead Garnet John Kovacs, a seni()r soceer player, is Concordy's first - \Athlete of the Week\ this year. A forward from Dalton, Massachussets, John missed most of last season with a broken nose, but entered this season as Union's fifth-all time leading goal-scorer and shares the present Captain duties with, senior Jim Manning. The Dutchman's present 2'-0 record (wins over Rochester · and Kings Point) is largely due to Kovac's overall play. As a catalyst for the offense that has totally dominated both games, his passing· has dazzled op·' ponents, teammates, and even an official who tauted him as All-American material. John's flashiest moments came durmg the $,() romp over Rochester. He assisted Pete Handy with a. perfect cross field pass, and later showed some great body control as he headed in a fine shot into tbe corner of the net. lie was also very in· strumental in the Kings Point victory, aDd .undoubtedly will lead the bo()ters to- a fine season. Senior co-ca pta In John Kovacs Vol. 1.( Jay s1 street and is tivitie! Co bySUl Steps ar pre.pare credltatior originally place ear postponed the prob during the The re~ every 10 Y4 the Midd Cornmissi William H commissio associati< ui1iversitie join togt determine th·eir are: creditatior He also • States is commissi throughoul TheMidc extends fiT the Distd includes I Virgin Ish posed of deals with high schO< In ordet review, the a self-stud study hc:w Co In resJ student t mittec : measure lilCt~ease Student They an~ concert, E speakers ad-hoc ta independt In addit

