Foun_ded at Union College 1877 VoL 109, No. 3 Sche~ectady, New York Thursday, Oct. 4, 1979 Got·ernance Dra,ft: New System Propo-sed Governance Chairman, Bryon Nichols Middle States: by PAUL FEIN SOT The status of Union College Gevernance is q1:1ite simply this: the second draft of the Report of the Committee on College Governance was released on May 30 of this year. The report, which has been revised for clarification, was Circulated around the .campus for comment. Within the next few months there will tie a process of implementation which should enable the new sy_stem to take over effective January 1, ~980. For those not familiar with it, the hierarchy of the governance struci1:1re is depicted. in the figure or:1 page 5. Undeniably, the Board of Trustees appear to have ultimate authority over all doings at the coHege. Then, regarding the outline vertically, the new composites: the Academic Affairs Council, the Student Affairs Co1:1ncil, and the Fal'ultv Review Board are aU under· the charge 'of the Provost's Office. The Provost report-; directly to the President of the College. College- Review U.pdate The Councils namea above were created for the purpose of recommending policy. More specifically, the Academic Affairs Council (consisting of 7 facultY members (one from each division of the College l; 4 full-time. daytime students; the Dean of Facultv; the Dean of Graduate and Continuing Education: the Provost ( ex officio and non-voting 1; the Associate Dean of Faculty (ex officio and non-voting 1) will be responsible for formulating and recommending plans for curricular development, en- couraging educational in- noYation. and guiding the by DOU(i R~SENFELD Every ten years, colleges and universities seek to be reac- credited by the Middle States Association Commission on Higher Education both to en- sure continued· f.immcial assistance from the federal government and to maintain amongst their peers prestige as educational institutions. The reaccreditation process Ls •basically two-pronged, as it includes a college's or a university's self-study and a review of that self-study by a committee of individuals out- side of the school but within the field of education. In the self- study phase, ·the college or university has the option of conducting an an-encompassing analysis or concentrating on areas of specific concern. According to Provost C. William Huntley, Chairman of the Middle States Steering Committee, it was at his suggestion that Union em· barked upon the latter course, and formed eight committees to study eight areas of the , college's operation which it deemed to constitute \major pr·iorities.\ SELF STUDY With four of eight preliminary reports made public to date by drafting committees, Union is halfway along in the self-study phase of its reaccreditation drive. The Drafting Committees on Maintenance, Energy, and Athletics have. all released first drafts of their reports, while the Drafting Conm1ittee oil College Governance has released the second draft of its report (see article). The chairpeople of the Governance, Maintenance, ~nergy, and Athletics drafting committees are, respectively, Prof. Byron Nichols, Assistant . to the Provost Dwight Wolfe I replacing Prof. Joseph Maciariello), Prof. William Aubrey (replacing Prof .• Tohn Shanebrook) and Prof. Rudy Nydegger. The four reports not yet released in first draft are those of the Drafting . Committees on Curricular Affairs, Admissions, Student Life, an<t\Beyond Four Years\ concerns ti.e., I.A.M., Co-ntinuing Education, and Graduate St1:1dies), chaired by Dean of Faculty. Paula Brownlee, Prof. T-heodore Sch- warz, Prof. John Sowa, arid Prof. Jan Ludwig, respectiv;e1y. According to Schwarz, chairman of the Middle States· Committee on Admissions, the main reason for not having the report ready is lack of time. His schedule is quite full, as he runs the Computer Center, and he has also had to learn about the admissions process. He has n·ow set a date with the Provost and is working against that deadline. He expects a first draft to be ready by the middle of the month, and to be presented to the community as a whole shortly after the Steering Committee sees it. Professor Sowa, Chairman of Continued on page 3 · academic officers of the College in their review of its educational program. This Council, as stated in the report, \Will assume the responsibilities currently assigned to the EPC, Dissident To Spea~ Dissident Alexander Ginz- burg, exiled to the West recently' from a Soviet prison camp, will speak on human rights in the USSR at 8 p.m., October 10; in Memorial Chapel. · Sponsored by the Speaker's Forum, Gin:?,!mrg' s presen- tation will examine the role of the Helsinki Watch Group in preserving human rights within the Soviet Union. Ginzburg, born in Moscow in November of 193'6, has been active in the human rights movement in the USSR f-rom its very inception. On April 'lfl-:, 1979, Mr. Ginzburg was released from a Soviet labor camp and exchanged, along with fellow political prisor:1ers Eduard Kuznetsov, Mark Dymshits, Vaiemtyn Moroz, and Pasto1· Georgi Vins, for .two convicted spies. While in the USSR, Alexander Ginzburg was the administrator of the Russian Social Fund, a charitable organization founded bv him aFJd exiled author A·lexander Solzhenitsyn to aid Soviet prisoners and their families. Alexander Solzhenitsyn has donated all his t·oyalties from the Gulag Arehipelago for the Fund's financial support Alexander Ginzburg's open opp'(isition to the · Soviet government's repressive policies began in the late 1950's when he edited the first samizdat (typewritten) literary journal, Siutaxis, which con- tained poems by young Moscow and Leningrad writers. For this he was arrested in 1960 and · sentenced to two years at forced labor. Upon his release, Ginz- burg was forbidden to resume his studies in journalism at Moscow University and had great difficulty in finding work. He eventually took on a series of odd jobs, including cleaning sewers. In 1966, he came to the at- tention of the world press when hewas arrested-for compiling a White Book on the celebmted trial of writers Andrei Sinyavski and Yuli Daniel. In January 1967, the KGB arrested Ginzburg and three other dissidents in a trial that at- tracted a great deal of in- ternational attention. The \trial of the four,\ as it became known. resulted in Ginzburg's second term of imprisonment. He was sentenced to five years of strict regime labor camp and was released in 1972, emerging from prison with ulcers and other ailments. He was not allowed to live in Moscow and settled in Tarusa, ap- proximately 70 miles from the capital. It was at this time that Ginzberg met Alexander Solzhenitsyn and the two men Continued on page 4 Dissident Alexander Ginzbur9. the Continuing Education Committee, the Research Committee, the Library Committee, the Graduate Studies Committee, and the Committee on Academic Standing of Students.\ The Student Affairs Council will consist of five full~time day students. They will be the President and Vice-President of the Student Forum, a senior class representative, a junior class representative, and a sophomore class represen- tative. There will be two faculty members elected by the faculty at large, the Dean of Students, the Associate Dean of Faculty, and the Provost (ex officio and non-voting). The council will be the principal body for that area of concern which involves st udeFJt life and student ser- vices. This means that the Student Affairs Council will continuously review policy and formulate plans for: Student Housing, Dining Services, Student Center, Health Ser- vices, Counseling Services, and Career Counseli-ng and Placement. The Faculty Review Board, as stated in the draft, \is charged with the responsibility of recommending policy and procedures for review of faculty members for renewal of con- tract, promotion, and tenurability, and of recom- mending policy for procedures for determination of salary levels for faculty. It is further charged with reviewing in- dividual faculty members in consideration of renewal of ' contract, promotion and tenure or tenura bility, and making recommendation in individual cases.'' The membership of the Facultv Review Board will consist· o( five senior facultv members (at least one frori1 each division, and all past their tenure review), two junior faculty (not yet tenurable 1, the Dean tlf Faculty, and the Dean of Graduate Studies and Con- .tinuing Edueation (ex offiuo and non-\'oting l. Hl'ferring to tht' figure . 1n page 5, and surveying horizontally, on the extreme left arr the two new Consultatior: Groups to the PrPsid('[lt. First. there is the Conference grou~ which is t•harged with <:Hl\'isillK \tlw President at his request un all matters of imtllt'dt(Jte conl'ern to the general func- tioning pf the campus. It 1s designed to p! ovide the PrPsident a quick \sounding board\ as ht' deals wtth n1atters of importam·c whid1 I'L'quin· immediate actitlll. ·· The members of this group will .be: thl' President of thl' College, Chairman; L'llairman of the F.acult\ Ext.•cutive Committee; Secretary of the Facult v; President of thr Student Bodv; \'ice-PI'esidem of the Student Body; Chairnwn. ,\eademic Affairs Cuuncil; Chairman, Student Affairs Council. The second group designed for matters of direct con· sultation with the President is the Planning and Priorities · Continued on page 5

Page 2 OONCORDIENSIS, October 4, 19\19 Forum Meets: Governance by ANDREW WISOFF The Student Forum met Tuesday night, continuing its discussions 0n College Governance, and voting on nine Student Forum•proposed amendments to the Final Report of the College Gover- n:mce Drafting Committee. First on the list of amend- ments was an :tmendment that would guarantee that all · un- dergraduate student ap- pointments to th.e proposed College Governance System would be made by the Student Government Committee on Committees (COC). The~ rationale behind such an amendinent was to insure that the COC would continue to make fair and equitable student appointments to the College Governance Sub.-Councils, in the best interests of the student body as a w'bole. The first amendment was voted unanimously. The second amendment, which established the mem- bership of the Sub-Council on Academic Standing of Students (as 3 students, 3 faculty, the Dean of . Faculty or his-her designee, the Dean of Students or his-her designee, and the R~gistrar) was also approved unanimously. This amendment was designed to reflect the current All-College Senate Standing of Students Com- _mittee, which also contains three students. After considerable debate, an amendment which would have established the membership of the Sub-Council on· Student Conduct as 7 students and 2 faculty was defeated. A sub- stitute amendment, establishing the membership of the Student Conduct Sub- Council as 9 students with the Dean of Students or his designee as advisor without vote was passed by the Forum without a dissenting vote. The next proposed amend- ment on the agenda was voted down unanimously after even its sponsors conceded that it was unnecessary because it w.as overlY cautious. Since the students command a majority on thr Student Affairs C'ouneil rS/\C'\., ns it is presci1tly written into the proposed new College Governance System, all members agreed that there was no overwhelming reason· to stipulate that students should command a majority on •each of the sub-councils created by the SAC (since most likely they would anyway). . Possibly the most sensitive prQposed amendment discussed during t'be two and one half hour meeting was an amendment affecting the Faculty Review Board (FRB). After con- siderable discussion the previous week, the proposal to add \two students to the Faculty Review Board to discuss, with a vote, matters of Faculty Review Board policy and criteria\ lost by a vote of 2- 10. The FRB, as it will be presented to the Trustees in two weeks, will be entirely com- posed of faculty members. The following proposal, which may encount_er faculty op- position, sought to add a mechanism whereby the Student Government could ask for an official reconsideration of new policies generated by the Academic Affairs Council ( AAG). The call for an .official reconsideration and a written response would follow a given time frarne. The addition of such a mechanism, the precise wordi•ng of which will be presented at Thursday's meeting (Oct. 4th), received Continued on page 3 Student Elections Student elections to fill the vacant positions of Student Forum . Secretary and Senior Class Representative will be held Tuesday, October 9, in front of Carnegie Hall. . The Secretary of the Student Forum is elected by all four classes and also serves as a member of the Student Tax Committee_ The Senior Class Representative serves on the Forum Agenda Com- •liittee as well as the Student Forum, and is elected by the Senior Class. Petition and election guidelines are available in the Student !l.ctivities Office. All completed petitions must be retumed to the )tudent Activities Office by 4:30, Friday, October 5. For further information contact Ken Plumb (382-9029) or Dave O'Connor (382-9682). Olonrnr Editors-in-Chief News Editor Features Editors Layout Editors Sports Editor Assistant Men's Sports Editor Women's Sports Editor Arts Editors Photo Editor Photo Staff Layout Staff Copy Editor Doug Rosenfeld Sara Simmons Paul Feinsot Donna Creeley 111> Sue Barnhart Rachel Mandel Danny Wojnilower Mark Palomba Rich Hope Barb Plotkin Steve Monosson, Cindy Aranow Pat Wright Dwight Pakan, Steven Krisky Darren Saunders Ellen Van Dyke Staff Mitchell Chess, Maria Band, Roy Jackson Business Manager Subscriptions · Carole Reinig Martha Rubenstein, Scott Witkin, Ellen Holtzman CONCORDIENSIS is published every Thursday by the student body of Union College,. Carnegie Hall, Schenectady, New ·vork, 12308; Publications Office: Susquehanna Publications, Inc., 8%! Reynolds Ave., Oneonta, New York 13820, ( 607) 432-6737. Entered in the Schenectady Post Office as third class matter. Subscription rate: 35 cents per copy, $10 per year, delivet·ed anywhere in the United States. Committee on Committees The Committee on Committees announces that ·applications for the following committee positions will be available ·in the Student Activities Office between Thursday, October 4th and Monday, October 15th. All students are eligible to serve on committees; a list of committee functions, and further in- formation, are available in the Student Activities office. Housing CommJttee ( 1 spot) C<illege Center Committee (2 spots) Concert Committee (2 spots) Elections Committee (3spots) Film Committee (3 spots) Social Committee (3 spots) Speakers Forum ( 1 spot) Traffic a net Pet Court (2 spots) All applications must be returned to the Student Acti'vities Office before 4:30 p.m., Monday, October 15th. Thank you. CLASSES OF· •eo 1 81 •ae •s3 COME JOIN THE FUN!. HOMECOMI-NG WEEKEND OCTOBER 19-21 Homecoming Weekend iS approaching fast. You won't want to miss the fun so r:nake sure you save these dates! ALL students are in- vited to participate in the activities of Homecoming 1979. Highlights of the weekend include a smashing Student-Alumni Golf Tournament, a stimulating series of Alumni Career Panels, a superbly entertaining Student-Alumni Cabaret, a sensational Karla Bonoff Concert, a victorious Union Football Game aga~inst Hobart, a relaxing Presidential receptiot1 to welcome our new President, a \roof-raising\ Square Dance, a \Night at the Pops\ with our own fantastic Men's and Women's Glee Clubs, and as a grand finale fabulous Victory Celebration Fireworks on A1exander Field !-Don't miss this exciting fun-packed Fall Weekend!!! Fi~ Union athletic f for NCA Garis Fie It now Spl 360 feet l Work o May an< August. l many ch• original leveled < crowned. way to i ruri-off. J planning advisor, has a hi water,'' underdra feet belo1 An irrigc: been im derdraiw the socfdi took two Other Garis Fh Memori1 planting the plant field, ins: . thenewp Also, ei~ .. have .bee field. Th1 of hard turned or device in are set t For -. Conti unanimo by then Forum. Sixth , rnents, '\ add one to:.the P L@son G alSo rec th~~siasH there arl on the ?lannin, Committ · b~~eved t\s corr would ~ greater student liJappoin $imila ame.ndrr amendm thtfd. stt I.;;i{sQn· .( member! deslfabl tS;tfon or ~i·oup v s'tudent varsity SJ represen third sj women's ment to a voted. The lal which pr student Operatio1 defeated. The 1

_P_a_g_e_2 ________________ __:_C_O_NCORDIENSIS, October .q, 1979 ~-----------;.--.-.-;.-;.-;.-;.-;.-.;.--;.-;.-;.~-;.-;.-;.-;.~-;.-;.-;.-;.-;.-..- Governance by ANDREW WISOFF The Student Forum ml't Tue!'day night, eontinuiNg ih discussions on College (;overnance, and voting on Aine Student Forum-p.roposed amendments to the Final Rt>port of the College Go\'er- nam·e Drafting Committee. First on the Jist of amend- nwnts was an amendment that wot1ld gtlarantee that all un- dergraduate student ap- pointments to the proposed College Governance System would be made by the Student Govemment Committee on Committees ( COC). The ratior:~ale behind such an amendment was to insure that the COC would continue to make fair and equitable student appointments to the College Governance Sub-Councils, in the best interests of the student body as a whole. The first amendment was voted unanimously. The second amendment, which established the mem- bership of the Sub-Council on Academic Standing of Students (as 3 students, 3 faculty, the Dean of . Faculty or his-her designee, the Dean of Students or his-her designee, and the Registrar) was also approved unanimously. This amendment was designed to reflect the current All-College Senate Standing of Students Com- mittee, which also contains three students. After considerable debate, an amendment which would have established the membership of the Sub-Council on Student Conduct as 7 students and 2 faculty was defeated. A sub- stitute amendment, establishing the membership of the Student Conduct Sub- Council as 9 students with the Dean of Students or his designee :1s advisor without vote was passed by the Forum without a dissPnt ing vote. The rwxt proposed amend- ment on .the agenda was voted down unanimous! y after even its sponsors conc:eded that it was unnet·es!'arv because it was overly cautious. Sinee the ..;tudcnts command a majority on thP Studrnt Affairs C'ounl'il ~ S:\C l, as it is prl'Sl'ntly wriUl'n mto the proposed new College Governance System, all members agreed that there was no overwhelming reason to stipulate that students should eommand a majority on each of the sub-councils created by the SAC <since most likely they would anyway). Possibly the most sensitive proposed amendment discussed during the two and one half hour meeting was an amendment affecting the Faculty Review Board 1 FRB). After con- siderable discussion the previous week, the proposal to add \two students to the Faculty Review Board to discuss, with a vote, matters of Faculty Review Board policy and criteria\ lost by a vote of 2- · 10. The FRB, as it will be presented to the Trustees in two weeks, will be entirely com- posed of faculty members. The following proposal, which may encount.er faculty op- position, sought to add a mechanism whereby the Student Government could ask for an official reconsideration of new policies generated by the Academic Affairs Council ! AAC). The call for an official reconsideration and a written response would follow a given time frame. The addition of such a mechanism, the precise wording of which will be presented at Thursday's meeting (Oct. 4th), received Continued on page 3 Student Elections Student elections to fill the vacant positions of Student Forum Secretary and Senior Class Representative will be held Tuesday, October 9, in front of Carnegie Hall. The Secretary of the Student Forum is elected by all four classes and also serves as a member of the Student Tax Committee. The Senior Class Representative serves on the Forum Agenda Com- llittee as well as the Student Forum, and is elected by the Senior Class. Petition and election guidelines are available in the Student !\ctivities Office. All completed petitions must be returned to the )tudent Activities Office by 4:30, Friday, October 5. For further information contact Ken Plumb (382-9029) or Dave YConnor (382·9682). Editors-in-Chief ~ewsEditor Features Editors Layout Editors Sports Editor Assistant Men's Sports Editor Women's Sports Editor Arts Editors Photo Editor Photo Staff Layout Staff Copy Editor Doug Rosenfeld Sara Simmons Paul Feinsot Donna Creeley Sue Barnhart Rachel Mandel Danny Wojnilower Mark Palomba Rich Hope Barb Plotkin Steve Monosson, Cindy Aranow Pat Wright Dwight Pakan, Steven Krisky Darren Saunders Ellen Van Dyke Staff Mitchell Chess, Maria Band, Roy Jackson Business Manager Subscriptions Carole Reinig Martha Rubenstein, Scott Witkin, Ellen Holtzman CONCORDIENSIS is published every Thursday by the student body of Un~on ~ollege,. Carnegie Hall, Schenectady, New York, 12308; PublicatiOns OffiCe: Susquehanna Publications, Inc., 8lf2 Reynolds Ave., Oneonta, New York 13820, ( 607) 432-6737. Entered in the Schenectady Post Office as third class matter. Subscription rate: 35 cents per copy, $10 per year, delivered anywhere in the United States. Concerned To the editor as well as the entire campus community: etters It has rome to my attention at this late date and time that there appears to be a lack of communica~ive response This letter is being sent to you for we know that you are . hetwec·n the campus. com- munit 11 and OUR schQU>l newsp ~per, Concordtensis, with respect to poignant and con~ troversial issues occurring on For the iUiterates in reat(Uilut audience the ex .. ·nl.::ln:::~ 1 nnn plain and simple,: GETTING NO ''FE:EtiBA:CK t · . The men and women ·· who wot<l~. 'their -butts off eaeh 'and , e.Vl<'it\V Tuesday night as well as throughout the \tmtire week to put Goncordiensis together for YOU do their damnedest to YOU abreast of the news on and off , campus. The least you (well; some of you) could do is t:espond to what you read in the paper. It does not have to be some profound piece · of literature in order to get printed. But if you've got .a beef, or on those rare occasions a compliment, about something P .,S. This letter is directed to e~eryone,. not just the students. .. Mrs. Opal· Crapp ••••••••••••••iilllliilllllllllllil•llli••• E~n~~.Dr~v~ Committee on Committees The Committee on Committees announces that applications for the following committee positions will be available in the Student Activities Office between Thursday, October 4th and Monday, October 15th. All students are eligible to serve on committees; a list of committee functions, and further in- formation, are available in the Student Activities office. Housing Committee (1 spot) College Center Committee (2 spots) Concert Committee ( 2 spots) Elections Committee (3spots) Film Committee (3spots) Social Committee (3 spots) Speakers Forum ( 1 spot) Traffic and Pet Court (2spots) All applications must be returned to the Student Activities Office before 4:30 p.m., Monday, October 15th. Thank you. CLASSES OF 'so 'B1 'se 's::~ COME JOIN THE FUN ! HOMECOMING WEEKEND OCTOBER 19-21 in y<;mr Homecoming Weekend is approaching fast. You won't want to miss the fun so make sure you save these dates! ALL students are in- vited to participate in the activities of Homecoming 1979. Highlights of the weekend include a smashing Student-Alumni Golf Tournament, a stimulating series of Alumni Career Panels, a superbly entertaining Student.Aiumni Cabaret, a sensational Karla Bonoff Concert. a victorious Union Football Game against Hobart, a relaxing Presidential reception to welcome our new President, a \roof.raising\ Square Dance, a \Night at the Pops\ with our own fantastic Men's and Women's Glee Clubs, and as a grand finale fabulous Victory Celebration Fireworks on Alexander Field!-Don't miss this exciting fun·packed Fall Weekend!!! ':. I'. I I .I ' I Fi~ Union athletic f for NCA Garis Fie It now spr :~66 feet I Work o May an< August. l many eh< original leveled <: crowned. way lG i run-off. J planning advisor, has a hi water,\ underdra feet bel01 An krigc: been im; derdraim the sodd! took two Other , Garis Fi1 Memo ric: planting the plant field, insl the new p Also, ei~ have bee field. ThE of hard turned or device in are set t For Conti unanimo by then Forum. Sixth , rnents, \ add one to the P Liason G also rec thusiasU there arE on the Plannin Committ believed thls corr would g greater student reappoin Simi! a amendn: amendm thi.f\d stt Li:ason C memben desh·abl tation or Gl'oup v student varsity SJ represen; third s1 women's ment to a voted. The la1 which pr student Operatior defeated. The 1

OONOORDIENSIS, October 4 .. 1979 Page 3 . Field Renovated Union College now has an athletic fie'ld which is suitable for NCAA competitive play. Garis Field has been renovated. It now Spreads 225 feet wide and 360 feet long. ' Work on the field began last May and was concluded in August. In those four months 1nany changes took place. The original nine foot grade was leveled and the field is now crowned. Crowning was the best way to insure snow and rain ruri-off. Jaok Litynski, Unior!'s planning and architectural advisor, explained. that Union has a hiSfory of \sub-surface water,'' (ice springs) hence underdrainage has been set two feet below the playing surface. An irrigation system has also been installed with the un:- derdrainage to help preserve the sod.ded field. The sodding took two weeks to finish .. Other changes on .and near Garis Field include painting of Memorial field House, im- planting of a new--scoreboard, the planting af trees around the field, installing of fencing, and . the new placement of bleq.ohers. . Also, eight pop-up sprinkle.rs have been planted through the field. They are flat discs made of .hard ·rubber and can be turned on singly or by a timing device in the field house·; they are set to dispense an inch ol water per week throughout the summer .. The total cost of the renovation of the field fies someplace between $170,000 and $180,QOO. According to Provost ~ Huntley that money has yet to ~ be allocated. - The decision to go ahead~with ~ ·· the plans for Garis Field was ~ itself a Trustee decision based -6 upon .their perception of college f needs. Pl'ans for the renovation of the three other fields are now set on a phase basis, one field at a time as needs arise and finances allow. According to Mr. Litynski, the plans for Garis Field began in 1976 with the Plan C~ncept for the '80's. Mr. Litynski, of the Sar~toga Associates, helped the administration in planning 'how to achieve its goals. Faculty and staff were include(! in part of the planning so their needs · could also be fulfilled. . When the field was completed by the contractors, Mr. Litynski had a few of the soccer players test it for their use and, ac• cording to Litynski, .the men were air satisfied, After this past Monday's game in the rain, however, people questioned use of the field at such an early date after sodding. Apparently a piece of sod was lifted out during the play and had to be reset py a ~ referee and a student was quoted afterwards as saying \the field was like a piece of wet sponge cake.\ Reports said that the Board of Trustees were told that use of the field for a year after the sodding would not be advisable. The Trustees, on the contrary, have said that after they gave the go-ahelid on the field, they were not consulted again. The assumption was made, however, that the field would. be used with descretion in terms .of weather and general preservation. Future plans for the other three fields include an aU- ' weather football field and track, a new baseball field, and an aU- , purpose green for imprornpt use by the entire student body. Forum Votes On Amendments -. Continued from page 2 unanimous and solid approval by the members of the Student Forum. · . Sixth on the list of amend- ments, was an amendment to add one more student member to.tbe Planning and Pdorities. Lijson Group. This f.lmendment . also received unanimous en- th~siastic approval. ·Currently, there are three stu_dehts sitting on the All-College Senate J;>lanning . and Priorities Committee. It was strongly After a long and somewhat difficult discussion, it was decided that \some but not all of the five -students on the Student Affairs Council (SAC) · would overlap with the mem- bel.'ship of the Student Forum.\ Fufthet disposition of the subject of exactly how the five stiHjents would be chosen to serve 0n the. SAC will be con- sidered after the Student Forum Sub-Comwittee on Student r Governance delivers its initial report the eighth week of fall term. recommendation. In closed session, Dave O'Connor announced the Committee a-n Committee's recommendations for ap- pointment to the recently reorganized Admissions Committee. The two recom- mendations, Laurie- Brecher and Cherie Weiss, were ap- proved unanimously. _ The next Student Forum meeting will be held in room 301 Carnegie Hall,' Thursday, October 4th, at 9:00 p.m. Professor Nichols, Chairman of the Drafting Committee on Governance, has been invited te attend. .. Newly renovated Gar,is Field. Food For Thought --Not To Eat by DA\'IDWOLUN I Enter Rod Serling1 Sumnntted for your approval, one Rob D .. Freshman,. 4th floor West resident IThe \ZOO\), and Economics major. He is entering a dimension of nausea and dist;ust. The sign post up ahead reads: West Cafeteria. 1 Begin Twilight Zone Theme 1 The door is thrust open, the meal card is punched and Rob D. is on his way to the inevitable. He methodically selects his \\ eapons for the a waiting enemy: tray, spoon, knife, and ... and ... WOW!!! This is Hob's lucky day. He is very fortw1ate enough today to have a preview of the a waited meal encrusted on his· fork. . . WOW:!~. . .Another big treat~ ! ~ The meal is not green like yesterdays. . . it's yellow with spots of brom1. Mmm Delicious! : .:· .. After a moment of hesitation, · Hob cautiously approaches the nieal counter and proceeds to \select his poison\ r Literally). ··I'll have the green, the bi:own, and some of the blue\ he gurgles. ~ext, . it's off to get something to quench his thirst. With its multitude of oddly colored drinks. ~ 1 this week: brown, white, orange, red, and yellow), the refreshment counter looks more like a Crayola Crayon convention than a place to get something to guzzle down. By the time Rob had found a dean seat, he had ··finally figured out what was on his plate and why, for that matter, it was there. The only thing he reallr couldn't understand was why the brown and yellow mass in front of him looked more like it should be running in the third race at Saratoga Raceway than on his plate rPoor Mr. Ed). Indeed today was Rob's lucky day. :'-lot only was he able to go back for a second· helping 1 When the server asked if he would like another portion, the only thing Rob could say was \Nay'') but while he ate, he was also treated to an aerial display by eight gruesome flies \vho were ready to p·ounce on his meal as soon as he left. · ~gl~eved that a third student on tl5's committee (oops, group) · would give the COC much greater flexibHity in making student appointments and. ll~ppointments. Similar ·to- the previous ame.ndment, the seventh all!endment proposed adding a th:g.d. student to the Athletic Other Forwn business in- cluded approving three out of five of the students who will be on the Student Governance Committee. The three students approved were: Ken Plumb (Student Forum President) Andrew Wisoff (Senior Clas~ Representative) and Will Lloyd College Review Update ... • During the course of his meal, two things in particular greatly distrubed Rob. One was that he was verv sure he saw his food move (Maybe it had?? l, and he also couldn't get out of his mind the feeling that he was being watched. Anyway, his meal was gone in \two shakes of a lamb's tail\ (or was that his dinner??), and finally RQb was through. After waiting a half an hour on line to dispose of his tray and its contents, Rob proceeded to head for the door. Rob couldn't help but notice a legless frog sitting in a wheel chair with a sign above its head reading: .. Lmi3Qn·. G.r~up .. : Sevetal .F.orum · mefllbers felt that the most qeslrable' st.udent r.epresen- tl:(tion on the Athletic Liason ~·oup would consist of one s'tudent representing men's varsity spmts,. a second student representing intramurals, and a third student representing women's sports. The amend- ment to add a third student was voted. The last formal amendment, which proposed adding a third student to the Campus Operations Liason Group, was defeated. · · (Sophomore Class Represen- tative). Andy Mitchell, the Forum Educational Policy Committee ( EPC) representative, reported . that the EPC will probably vote against the recommendation of the Drafting Committee on Athletics that a physical education requirement be in- stituted. 'The EPC cited a lack of adequate athletic facilities and a philosophical disagreement with the concept .of a physical education requirement as its reasons for objecting to the Drafting Committee's The Way We Are Continued from page 1 the Committee on Student Life, claims that his group's report is basically written but is still · missing a section. For that reason the committee has not met to review it. Sowa expects -that the missing section will.be written within a week and the committee will meet shortly thereafter. The conclusions of this report are known, but are not as yet written up in the form of a first draft. OUTSIDE SCRUTINY Mr. Keith Spaulding, the Chairman of the Middle States committee which has been appointed to review Union College, will be on campus today, Thursday, Oct. 4, for a preliminary visit. According to Huntley, Spaulding is coming to dsit Union in order to make arrangements for the official six- or ten-member official committee visit slated for Feb. 3-6. 1980 .. Spa_ulding. the President of Franklin and Marshall College, is scheduled, says HurrtJey, to \spend a day at Union, visit the campus; and speak with various groups as hf' sees fit.\ The visit by the entire committee in February will involve a review of tlie eight rep_orts compiled in Union's self-study as well as \meetings with groups, in- cluding students.\ \Tomorrow's Dinner - Frog's Legs\. He was out of West Cafeteria in an instant, never to come back. rEnter Rod Serling 1 Rob D., an unf<H'tunate Freshman Economics. major who took a wrong turn during meal time and landed him in West Cafeteria. Lesson for today: Mark this down under \E\ for Experience in. . .thL' TWILIGHT ZONE. Next Week: \A Total Washout\ .... ALL :r. b ll) ALL 'S u mfY\E~ LOf\.l6- WI\S DRINJ( !tNt) t-IAV£ FON) I Yeo ,KNow IT 1 :5 FUNNY 1 BoT\ ... .......... BuT Now DO \S a ~u .. r De.tN 1\ l \'

' I I ' . ) I ' I ' OONOORDIENSIS, October 4, 1979 Page 3 Field Renovated Union College now has an athletic field which is suitable for NCAA competitive .play. Garis Field has been renovated. It now spreads 225 feet wide ar:~d :~66 feet long. ' Work on the field began last May and was concluded in August. In those four months many changes took place. The original nine foot grade Vl:as leveled and the field is now crowned. Crowning was the best way t0 insure snow ar;~d rain run-off. Jack LityHski, Union's planning and architectural advisor, explaiHed that Union has a history of \sub·surface water,\ (ice springs) hence underdrainage has been set two feet below the playing surface. An krigatioN system has also been installed with the un- derdrainage to help preserve the sodded field. The sodding took two weeks to finish. Other changes on and near Garis Field include painting of Memorial field House, im- planting of a new scoreboard, the planting of trees around the field, installing of fencing, and the new placement of bleachers. Also, eight pop-up sprinklers have been planted througlil the field. They are flat discs made of hard rubber and can be turned on singly or by a timing device in the field house; they are set to dispense an inch of water per week throughout the summer. ThP total cost of the renovation of the field lies someplace between $17!!,000 and $180,@00. AtTording to Provost ~ I Iuntley that money has yet to ~ be allocated. The decision to go ahe~.ut' with ~ the plans for Garis Field was E itself a Trustee decision based 0 0 upon their perception of <.:allege 11: needs. Plans for the renovation of the three other fields are now sl't on a phase basis, one field at a time as needs arise and finances allow. According to Mr. LityHski, the plans for Garis Field began in 1976 with the Plan Concept for the '80's. Mr. Litynski, of tlile Saratoga Associates, he1ped the administration in planning how to achieve its goals. Factdty aNd staff were included in part of the planning so their needs could also be fulfiloled. When the field was completed by the contractors, Mr. Litynski had a fe·w of the soccer players test it for their use and, ac- cording to Litynski, the men were all satisfied. After this past Monday's game in the rain, however, people questioned use of the field at such an early date after sodding. Apparently a piece of sod was lifted out during the play and had to be reset by a referee and a student was quoted afterwards as saying \the field was like a piece of wet sponge cake.\ Reports said that the Board of Trustees were told that hlse of the field for a year after the sodding would not be advisable. The Trustees, on the contrary, have said that after they gave the go-ahead on the field, they were not consulted again. The asswnption was made, however, that the field would be used with descretion in terms of weather and general preservation. Future plans for the other three fields include an all- weather football field and track, a new bast'ball field, and an all- purpose green for imprompt use by the entire student body. Forum Votes On Amendments Continued from page 2 unanin1ous and solid approval by the members of the Student Forum. After a long and somewhat difficult discussion, it was decided that \some but not all of the five -students on the Student Affairs Council r SAC) would overlap with the mem- bership of the Student Forum.\ Further disposition of the subject of exactly how the five students would be chosen to serve on the SAC will be con- sidered after the Student Forum Sub-Committee on Student Governance delivers its initial report the eighth week of fall term. recommendation. In closed session, Dave O'Connor announced the Committee on Committee's recommendations for ap- pointment to the recently reorganized Admissions Committee. The two recom- mendations, Laurie Brecher and Cherie Weiss, were ap- proved unanimously. . The next Student Forum meeting will be held in room 301 Carnegie Hall. Thursday. October 4th. at 9:00 p.m. Professor ~ichols, Chairman of the Drafting Committee on Governance, has been invited to attend. Newly renovated Garis Field. Food For Thought --Not To Eat by DA \\II> WOLU!'ol 1 F:nter Rod SE'rling 1 Summttted for your approval, onr Rob n . freshman, 4th floor W rst resident 1 The \ZOO\ J, and F:conomics major. He is mtE'rin~ a dimension of nausea and dis~ust The sign f:OSt up ahead reads: West Cafeteria. 1 Begin Twilight ?:one Theme 1 The door is thrust open, the meal card is punched and Rob D. is on his wav to the inevitable. He methodically selects his \\ eapons for the awaiting enemy: tray, spoon, knife. and ... and ... WOW!~~ This is Rob's luckv dav. He is \·ery fortwlate enough today to have a preview of the awaited meal encrusted on his fork. . .wow:~:. .Another big treat:: : The meal is not green like yesterdays. . .it\ s yellov .. · with spots of brov.n. ::-.1mm Delicious::: After a moment of hesitation, Hob cautiously approaches the mt'al l'Ounter and proceeds to \select his poison\ 1 Literally J. \I'll h<n·e the green. the brown, and some of the blue\ he gurgles. ~ext, . it's off to get somdhin~ to quench his thirst. With its multitude of oddly colored drinks. 1 this week: brown, white, orange, red, and yellow l, the refreshment counter looks more like a Cravola C\ravon convention than a place to· get something to guzzle down. By the time Rub had found a clean seat, he had finally figured out what was on his plate and why, for that matter, it was there. The only thing he really couldn't understand was why the brown and yellow mass in front of him looked more like it should be rW1ning in the third race at Saratoga Raceway than on his plate 1 Poor Mr. Ed l. Indeed today was Rob's lucky day. ~ot only was he able to go back for a second helping 1 When the server asked if he would like another portion, the only thing Rob could say was \:.;-ay\ l. but while he ate, he was also treated to an aerial display by eight gruesome flies who were ready to pounce on his meal as soon as he left. Sixth on the list of amend- ments, was an amendment to add one more student member to the Planning and Priorities r ,iason Group. This amendment also received unanimous en- thusiastic approval. Currently, there are three students sitting on the All-College Senate Planning and Priori ties Committee. It was strongly be-lieved that a third student on Hils committee (oops, group) would give the COC much greater flexibility in making student appointments and reappointments. Similar to the previous amendment, the seventh amendment proposed adding a third student to the Athletic Li:ason Group. Several Forum members felt that the most desirable student represen- tation on the Athletic Liason Group would consist of one student representing men's varsity sports, a second student representing intramurals, and a third student representing women's sports. The amend- ment to add a third student was voted. Other ForW11 business in- cluded approving three out of five of the students who will be on the Student Governance Committee. The three students approved were: Ken Plumb r Student Forum President), Andrew Wisoff (Senior Class Representative l and Will Lloyd (Sophomore Class Represen- tative l. College Review Update ... • During the course of his meal. two things in particular greatly distrubed Rob. One was that he was very sure he saw his food move 1 :\lay be it had?'? 1, and he also eouldn 't get out of his mind the feeling that he was being watl'hed. Anrwav, his meal was gone in \two· sha.kes of a lamb's tail'· r or was that his dinner'??), and finally Rob was through. After waiting a half an hour PH line to dispose of his tray and its contents, Rob proceL'ded to head for the door. Rnb couldn't help but notice a h•gless frog sitting in a wheel l'hair with a sign above its head reading: ··Tomorrow's Dinner - Frog's LE>gs\. Ht' was out of West Cafetrria in an instant. never to come back. The last formal amendment, which proposed adding a third student to the Campus Operations Liason Group, was defeated. Andy Mitchell, the Jt.,orum Educational Policy Committee r EPCl representative, reported that the EPC will probably vote against the recommendation of the Drafting Committee on Athletics that a physical education requirement be in- stituted. The EPC cited a lack of adequate athletic facilities and a philosophical disagreement with the concept of a physical education requirement as its reasons for objecting to the Drafting Committet>'s The Way We Are Continued from page 1 the Committee on Student Life, claims that his group's report is basically written but is still missing a section. For that reason the committee has not met to review it. Sowa expects that the missing section will be written within a week and the committee will meet shortly thereafter. The conclusions of this report are known, but are not as yet written up in the form of a first draft. OUTSIDE SCRUTINY Mr. Keith Spaulding, the Chairman of the Middle States committee which has been appointed to review Union College, will be on campus todav. Thursday, Oct. 4, for a prE'l(minary visit. According to Huntlt>y. Spaulding is coming to YiSit C nion in order to make arrangL'nlt'nts for the official six- or ten-member official committee \·isit slated for Feb. 3-6. 1980. Spaulding, the President of Franklin and Marshall College, is scheduled, says Huntley, to \~pend a day at Union, visit the campus, and speak with various groups as ht' sees fit.\ The visit by the t'ntire committee in Ft'bruan will involve a review of the Pight reports l'Ompiled in Ur1ion's self-studv as well as \met>tings with- groups, in- cludine: studt>nts.\ 1 F.nter Rod Serling 1 Rob D., an unfortunate Freshman F.conomil's major \\ ho took a wrong turn during meal time and landed him in West Cafeteria. Lesson fo1 today: \I<Jrk this down under \F.'\ for F.xperienn' in ... th,· TW!IJ(;HT ZO~E. ~Pxt WPrk: \A Total Washout\ ,. Au.. I. t>lt> ALL SUMIV\E~ WAS D~INK ANt) rlAV£ - I LON.6- J=Or.J) Yeo I'OJOW •T':5 FUIVM{ 1 Bol ... \ BuT Now Do IS \'LL- T D~INI\! ~

Page 4 OONOORDIEN8IS, October 4, 1979 Mountebanks: A ·oramatic Ending· Professor of Drama, Barry .Smith. by ROY JACKSON Since the commencement of this academic year, students have already begun to wonder what happened to the school drama club, the Mountebanks. Precisely what happened tG one of the oldest theatrical dubs in the country is very complex, and is beyond the scGpe of this article. But, perhaps it will shed some light on Union's theater controversy. Union theater was comprised of two independent, but unrelated, theatrical groups: the Union College Drama Department (under the auspices of the Arts Depart- ment), and the .student-,run drama club, the Mountebanks. The rights and responsibilities granted to: the. Mountebanks by their own constitution as distinct from those granted to Striving Newman Club by JOHN VAN DENBUROH Every Sunday evening at 7:30, a large number of students gather in Stauss Lounge, located on the first floor of Carnegie Hall. Their purpose is to join in the celebration of the Roman Catholic Mass, after which they enjoy doughnuts and · cider during a social hour. The Mass is organized by the Newman Campus Ministry, the representation for the Catholic religion at Union. The dri.ving force behind this organization is Sister Joyce- Gadona, appointed by the Albany Diocese as the Catholic Chaplin to Union College. This is Sister Joyce's second year in this position and she is exploring many avenues for the improvement of the Newman Club, and hopes for it to take an even more active role in the campus community. The first few weeks have been very busy_. for her. As ad- ministrator for the organization, a good amount of time has been spent behind the desk in her office located on the second floor of the Placement Office. With the new flock of freshmen and the room changes of upperclassmen it's a monumental task to locate the residences of Catholic students. She has described herself as being \chained to her desk\ for the most part since the term began. But, the paper work being caught up, she is now free for what she doe~ best and that is relating to people, en- visioning her role on campus as that of a ''parapatetic minister.\ In simple terms this means going out to meet the students, visiting dorms and attending student functions. In this manner she is able to establish a one-to-one relationship with an individual, find out his or her problems and do what she can to help. This she feels is one of her most important function as chaplin, that of ''Pastoral counciling\. This would encompass being a friend, advisor, and spiritual guide to the Catholic students at Union. Sister Joyce views her other primary responsibilities as \facilitating students to build a sense of community\ first among their peers in the Newman Club and then throughout the entire campus and ultimately among those they contact in the real world. She ''wants students to realize they have a responsibility to help and care for each other in the campus community''. But, · she emphasized that Union College itself is but a stepping stone where the student should learn about community and then carry this responsibility into his own parrish and to those among whom he has contact a way from school. She bas been happy with the large turnout for mass r bet- ween 180-250 each Sunday) but hopes they are all therebecause \ they want to be not because of peer, parental or other pressures. Along with the \quantity\ there must be a \quality\·. One area in which she feels the Newman Ministry itself may be lacking has been in having students take a.more activ~ role in the worship and community service. S'ister Joyce views the ministry not as just a once-a-week deal, but calls for ..students to be more concerned with social issues and in seeing how they parallel scripture to respond in the best way possible: She cites such organizations as Amnesty Internationa'l and others con .. cerning social injustice in which students can accept respon- sibility they have toward their · feUow man. She views the church as a balance between worship and service, feeling that not enough emphasis has been put on service as of late. \We must present the tangibility of God to one another.'' · As coordinator of the ~ewman Club, Sister Joyce Gadona has many hopes and plans for the year. At present she is arranging a retreat for interested Union students in conjunction with Father Tom Berardi, Chaplain at Skidmore, and his students. If this is successful more will be planned in the future. Hopes are high for another food drive as well as for the possibility of a hunger strike for the world's poor. Sister .Joyce also plans to organize informal prayer groups during the week, the exact time of which has not been decided. Another hope of hers is th~t since Uriion College has a traditior:~ as a Liberal Arts school they will introduce some electives in theology. Such courses would be conducive to a better understanding of worship and brotherhood. As an illustration of her point she cit.es the large number of students who took the literature of the Bible course that was taught last year. From courses such as · these she feel Christians would have a \better understanding of their Judaic roots\ and thus promote a closer relationsh!P· In this same vein Sister \wishes to work closely with her Christian brothers as well as her JewiSh counterparts in the ministry, for the good of her ~tudents.\ the Arts Department by the C'nllege was the basic area of conflict. Since the founding of the Arts Dept. and the hkings of Barry Smith and Charles Steckler, Professor and Assistant Professor of Drama, the two organizations tri·ed, and suc- ceeded, to co-exist in Union theater. Conflicts began to emerge in decision making processes, when neither group was absolutely certain as to what rights either of them had. As time pr0gressed, conflicts of thi:s sort worsened. The major controversy erupted in a decision making dispute between the Arts Dept. and the management of the Mountebanks during the productive stages of the Mountebanks' last production '\Tom Paine\. The dispute led to a meeting presided over by the Dean Gf Faculty early last March (1979), at which time control of the Nott ,Memorial, along with most of the enor- mGus technical responsibility, was transferred (or given back) to the Arts Department. The question of funding for the enormous production costs facilitated the dispute. The Union College Moun- tebanks from its beginning was a student-run organization consisting of students who took a keen interest in dramatic productions. Because it was a student-run organization, Mountebanks was classified as a student organization, and therefore was funded by student tax money: funding the productions of the student club. The Drama Dept. on the other hand is funded by the college: paying .for salaries, lighting, and electricity. These two organizations were interrelated to the extent that the Mountebanks provided the money required for productions and the Arts Dept. provided the knowledge and guidance. The cost of production itself, ticketing and technical equipment, ran tn the neigh- borhood of $17,000 annually. This money came -largely from student tax, the President's Discretionary Fund, Dean of Student's Student Activities C(lpital account, and of course box office take. Until last spring the Executive Board of the Mountebanks controlied much of the financing of productions. The students were ~·calling their own shots'' according to Smith. · As the gap betwe-en the At1s Dept. and the Executive Board of the Mountebanks grew in· creasingly wide, so did the gap between the Executive Board and the Mountebanks them- sglves. Accordi.ng to many of the Mountebanks, they weren't even aware of the increasing conflicts between the Arts Dept. and the Executive Board, much less able to do anything about it. By year's end··the Board was dissolved, and the Mountebanks were left without management. Because the Mountebanks lack management this year, as well as the Student Activities budget, they are not operating as a student organization this year. Bobsleds ·Near Completion by LYNNE GREENBERG On the first floor in Science'· and Engineering is a door labeled \Bobsled Research Lab.\ Inside is the result of two years work. There are . two bobsleds being completed which will go to the Olympic trials at Lake Placid on November 11. Under the direction of Professor David Ullmann, six . senior engineering students are doing the final construction of the two-man and four-man bobsleds. According to Ullman, the sleds will be cc.mpleted in seventeen days. The bobsleds are being built as part of the American Bobsled Research Association, which was formed in .1978. ABRA has also developed teams of athletes to ride the Union steds. The first Union bobsled was built last winter. It had its first test run on March 16, 1979 at Mt. Hoevenberg. After the test run it was pronounced very smooth and easy to drive. The bobsleds being built now l}ave been modified to improve last year's sled. They are being made with a flexible aluminum chassis. The design includes a spring suspension system. Six students are worldng on the sled as their student projects. They include: Tom Allen, Michelle Carbone, John Corey, David Karl, Bob O'Connor, and Amy Rosenfeld. Each student is responsible for a different part of the sleds. On November 11, the sleds will begin their runs at Lake Placid. Depending on how well they fare, we could be watching the Union bobsleds in the Olympics. $2 OFF -Ginzburg At Union • •• Purchqse of any tennis & jogging sneaker. , All brand names N IKE, ADIDAS, BROOKS, ETONIC, etc. OPEN 10-6 Courtside Tennis & Ski 1624 Upper Union \ Good til Oct. 15, 1979. 372-5558 HA.MILTON'S FOOD MARKET OFFERS UNION STUDENTS CONVENIENT SHOPPING AT RE;ASONABLE PRICES WE DELIVER 37 4-8448 (;:) Continued from page 1 created the Russian Social FuQd. In 1976, Ginzburg · further expanded his human rights activities by becoming one of the founding members of the Moscow Helsinki Watch Group, a citizen1¥ organization com- mitted to monitoring the Soviet Union's adherence to the humanitarian provisions of the Helsinki Accords. The group issued ·a number of thoroughly researched studies on Soviet human rights violations • and Ginzburg helped prepare Homemade salads, quality meats, several of these, including an fresh produce, groceries, beer and soda exhaustive study on living Located at 841 Union St. conditions in Soviet prisons and labor camps. (corner of Unton and Gillespie) Open Mon. - Fri. 8: 30 to 6 pm In February of 1977, the KGB ____ ?~_t_. -~: ,3~ !«? _?, p~_ was no longer able to tolerate L.,...;.. __ ·- ·-· ·-·-....;...;.;.,;;..;..;...;;.;..;..;.......;;..;.;..;.;.;..;..;;.;.;.., __ ...;..;, __ ..;.;...-,ii.l- ~'-Ginzburg 1 S human · rights and charitable activities, and he was again arrested. His third trial began in July of 1977, and Ginzburg quickly became an international cause celebre. In spite of vigorous protests from the International League for Human Rights, Amnesty Internationa, and the U.S.- based Alexander Ginzburg, Defense Committee (among whose members• were Arthur Miller, Saul Bellow, Kurt Vonnegut, and Senator Daniel Moynihan), and the personal intervention of Nobel Prize- winner Andrei Sakharov, Pinzburg received his most severe sentence: 8 years of special regime labor camp, to be spent in Mordovia Camp No. 1, the harshest of all the USSR's prison ~amps. Alexander Ginzburg was serving the third year of his sentence when, on April 25th, he was transported from the labor camp to Moscow's Lefortovo Prison, where he was informed that he wa-s being stripped of his Soviet citizenship and was to be exiled in the West. At the time of his release, Mr. Ginzburg had spent 9 years in prison. His family is still in the ~oviet Union. The Ginzburgs also have an adopted son for whom they are trying to obtain permission to emigrate with the remaining family. Ginzburg will be ac- companied by interpretet· Lydmilla Thorne. Tickets are 75 cents to the Union community and $1.50 to the general public. }hey will be available at the door. ·· , _ ... ~-· . c Grou revie Presi long-1 rnent prepo The 1 in elm the u: facilH f.inan prop< stituti will < de vel priori prelin FaH' relate as a meml munit siderc budge ni:ng.' The Grour Chair 2 stw Staff: tativt Finan Colle: Provo Chair] Ret again listed for t begin Admi prove on J Comn admi~ advis1 on al stu de admi~ Dean to th€ for cc The of: th ChairJ (to be terms mitte Studer Studer mittel Finan Athlet ( , Cor 1. 2.

OONOO!lDlENSIS, October 4, 1979 Page 5 · Neiv System Proposed · Continued from page 1 Group. This group \~hall review and recommend to the President policies concerning long-range planning, establish- ment of college priorities and preparation of yearly budgets. The duties of this group will include long-range planning for the use of current or proposed facilities and-or resources and nnandal implications of proposed or anticipated in- stitutional changes.\ The group will also be in charge of the development of budgetary priorities and the review of the preliminary budget during the FaH Term. And, as the report relates, \the Group also stands as a forum to which any member of the college com- munity may come for con- sideration of issues relevant to budget and long-range 1 plan- ning.\ The r.Hembership of this Group will consist of: 4 Division Chairpersons from the Faculty; 2 students; 1 Member of the Staff; 1 Alumni Represen- tative; Vice President for Finance;. Vice President for College Resources; the Provost; ·and the President as Chairperson. Returning to the chart, once again, on the extreme nght are listed three Liaison Committees for Administrative Staff. · To begin with, there is the LC for Admissions which was ap- proved by the Board of Trustees on January 10, 1979. This Committee will ''set general admissions p6licy and (will) advise the Dean of Admissions on all matters of concern to students and faculty about admissions. In addition, the Dean of Admissions may bring to the Committee any matter for consultation and opinion.\ The Committee- will consist of: the Dean of Admissions, as Chairma,n; 4 Faculty members (to be appointed for three-year terms by the Executive Com- mittee of the Faculty); 2 • Students (to be appointed -by the Student Committee on Com- . mittees); the Director of Financial Aid; the Director of Athletics; and 1 Member of the Admissions Staff <to be ap- pointed by the Dean). The second Liaison Com- mittee is the LC for Athletics which will serve to \advise the Director of Athletics on all matters of concern to the athletic program. These shall include-but not be limited to- intercollegiate athletic programs, club sports, in· tramural and recreational programs, women's programs, and instruction in athletic skills and sports. The Committee will discuss general policy, review program needs; analyze budget prioriti·es, and bring to· the attention of the Director of Athletics the concerns of members of the faculty and student body.\ Participants -of the Com- mittee will be: the Director -of Athletics, as Chairman; 2 Faculty members (to be ap- pointed by' the Executive Committee of the Faculty); 2 Students (to be appointed by the Student Committee on Com- mittees); and 1 Alumnus (to be appointed by the Alumni Council). · The third Liais0n Committee is the LC for Campus Operations. This LC \shall advise the Director of Campus Operations on all matters of the physical state of the campus and on plans for improvements. The Committee shall advise the Director on matters of general policy and on issues of concern to faculty and students, and it shall be consulted regularly on all plans for the construction of new facilities. and other im- provements to be undertaken 6n the campus. The Director of Campus Operations, as Chairman; 2 Faculty members (to be ap- pointed by the Exe.cutive Committee of the Faculty); 2 Students (to be appointed by the Student Committee on Com- mittees); 1 Member of the Staff r to be appointed by the Director). Finally, and something that is not shown on the chart,,.. there ! will be created an Executive Committee of the Faculty. The members of the Drafting Committee was \guided by a belief that the central role of faculty in matters curricular needs to be restored.'' Such a committee, it was felt, would facilitate a better organization so that there could be faculty meetings on a more regular basis. \The Chairman an.d Secretary of the Faculty shall be nominated from and elected by the faculty at large. The Chairman will serve for a one- year term, and the Secretary for a three-year term.\ The report states in terminus: \the academic Divisions of the College will t;ontinue as presently constituted. They will meet for purposes of com- munkation and informal deliberation, ~nd to elect the Divisional Chairman and the members who represent the Divisi-on on the Academic Affairs Council and the Faculty ' Review Board.\ The authors of the report (the constituents of the Drafting Committee on College Governance) are : Provost C.W. Huntley, Steven Richards · '79, Professors Gardner Ket- chem, George Reynolds, Anton Warde, and Byron Nichols, Bryon Nichols, a stalwart .poltttcat sctennsr. Chairman. This Week's College Activities Thursday, October 4: Formal Senior Pictures being taken from !J to 4 in Hale House WRUC Grateful Dead Movie, 9 p.m. in Memorial Chapel- tickets $2.25 in Student Activities. Red Cross Bloodmobile October 11 & 12 11 a.m.-5 p.m. Strauss Lou.nge Keg prizes to the group \\'hich donates .. the. n1ost blood Friday, October 5: Fonnal Senior Pictures again today. Grateful Dead Movie again today. Field Hockey vs. Oneonta, 3:15. Industrial Fair \Oktoberfest\ from 11 to 8 in Field House presented by Placement and Career Resources. Saturday, October 6: Field Hockey vs. RPI, 11:00 Women\<; Tennis vs. RPI, 11: OJ) Women's Volley Ball vs. Kings. 1:00 Industrial Fair ''Oktoberfest\ continues today from 9 to 3 SDT Beer Bash-open party, 9 p.m.-? at Chapter House Continued on page 11 College Governan-ce Hierarchy , Consu 1 tat ion Groups l. 2. ' Conference Gro~p · Chairman of the Faculty Executive Secretary of the Faculty President of the Student Qody V~ce-Ptes. of the Student Body Chairman, Academic Affairs Council Chairman, Student Affairs Council Planning and Priorities Group 4 Faculty Division Chairmen 2 Students 1. Staff 1 Alumnus Vice-Pres. - Finance ·vice-Pres .. - College Resources Provost Key: Direct authority to act Advisory role r BOARD OF iRUSTEES 1 ~ Liaison Cornmi ttees for PRESIDENT --~--------~---------------Administrative Staff ~~~:::::::- i'\' PROVOST 1. Dean of Admissions 4 Faculty :h'< 2 Admissions Staff Director of Athletics 2 Students Committee Acalae:c A ff . C 7 Faculty 'Student Affairs · Counc i 1 5 Students STUDENT GOV 1 T 2. Director of Athletics 1 2 Faculty It Students DOF 'DGS & CE Provost* ~ss.oc. ooF* 2 Faculty DOS Assoc. DOF Provost'~ DEAN OF FACULTY Faculty Review Board 5 Senior Faculty 2 Junior'faculty DOF* DGS & CE>~ * without vote ), 2 Students 1 Alumnus Director of Carnpus Operations 2 Faculty 2 Students 1 Staff :<:;~The composition of the committee to advise the Dean of Admissions was stipulated by vote of the Board of Trustees, January 10, 1979 ·.

Page 6 CONCORDIENSIS, October 4, 19\19 culture . ' ' . ' ' . .. . , '. . '', . . . ' ... Sing Along Union -------- . by R013ERT IMRIE \You can never get !:>hembleth? something for nothing. lf you want som.eone to do something for you, you must offer them something that will make. it worth the time.\ So said (or would have said) my Economics professor one day. Take, for instance, all the various organizations and clubs on campus that require student involvement. If you belong to a club that .requires a significant Shemblech Private Eye In uy ou've Got Some Case\ ~ Part U by GARY GLAUBER Last week we left Shemblech and. his friend,· Willy, as they cast a\shadow of suspicion upon Lola ..... \I know that she's your greatest enemy, Willy.\ \You've been reading my thoughts,\ he accused. \No. I've been reading this old newspaper article from '45. Pronto dug it up for me, thought I might be interested. It says that she is your greatest enemy. Also that you are nine foot two.'' \Oh that was a typographical error. If I was that tall, don't you think I would have told vou?\ · Willy walked across the room and sat down. A cord dangled from his pant leg. He didn't care. \Good news, Willy.\ \What's that?\ \Your trick knee. It got better. I hoped it would.\ \'What do we do now?\ asked Willy in despair. \We could play hopscotch, I mean if yo11're feeling up to it, your knee and all.\ \NQ you stupid shamus! I'm talking about the case. Idiot.\ \Oh Well I've got a few men doing some research on the word dipthong. Till they come up with something, maybe you'd better tell me all about you and Lola.\ \Well quite frankly, I don't remember much about the first few years. On our second date, I took her to the circus. They had a big sideshow and one of the booths was a hit-the-the-thing, ring-a-bell, win a prize deal. When my best try didn't ring the After her divorce, Erica got to know some pretty interesting people ••. including herself. (OlOR BY MOVIHAB rRIIIITS BY DeiU )(£. bell. Lola picked up the cleaning lady told me about it _sledgehammer and hit me one last week.\ over the head. I was in a coma \It was her, I know it was her. for two years and my hearing That voice; so familiar.\ was gone for four.\ \You know my cleaning lady, \'When was this?\ Willy?\ \In '32.\ \No you b1:1mbling fool! · 'Oh. You did seem a bit quiet Lola! The voice on the in- back then. Wonder I didn't tercom. It was her's!\ catch on to it then.\ · \Oh.\ He crossed the room to \I lived. Lola was beseiged the liquor cabinet and sat down with guilt. After all; sledging a ·with another bottle. man is a federal offense. But I \Crazy habit, that,\ com- didn't press charges. Still, she mented Willy. \I don't think I'll never called me. I heard she ever get used to it.\ joined a monastery to become a \Calms my nerves.'' nun.\ Shemblech appeared to be \\But- shaking like a leaf. \I know. She realized her Willv was worried too. He mistake too late and became the removed a leaf from his pocket first female Monk. \The great and started shaking it. ''What :Yionk-ess\ they called her. My now?\ he asked quietiy. heart was broken at the time.\ Shemblech motioned for Willy \\You were really stuck on to be silent. \Did you just hear her, huh, kid.\ that?\ ·•No. I got runover by a truck \What?\ and my heart was broken. You \Nothing. Must have been my know- the tape recorder in the imagination. Thought I heard shirt, remember?\ wild elephants stampeding on \'Hard cheese, Willy. So what the plain.\ happened next?\ ·'But Shemblech, this is \Well when things were Brooklyn.\ really rough I happened to run \Yep. Guess I've been wat- into her. We were all lined up at ching too many late shows.\ the hospital critical room, in Suddenly a knock was heard order of our chances to live. upon the door. Willy stopped Two lines, according to religion. shaking his leaf; Shemblech She was delivering last rites to answered it. There before him my line.'' was the largest man that he had \So it was her. What did you ever seen wearing sunglasses. do?\ The man had a gun. \Well like I said, I ran into \Can I help yol.). officer?\ he her. Believe me, after you get volunteered·. hit with a sledgehammer, you The proud man in ·blue really want revenge! Of course, smiled. \S'matter of fact, you at the time I only weighed eight can, Shernblech. Been lookin' pounds, so the total effect was for an elephant rustler, first lost. Still, she recognized my crime of its kind in the major face and so, gathering me up metropolitan area. You notice into a bucket, she quit the order anything wmsual?\ and nursed me back to health. It \How come you're wearing was a nice thing for her to do. sunglasses in the rain?\ Willy Soon we started qating again.\ asked the officer. The intercom on the table \Holds my piece in place. I started to buzz. Shemblech was born without any hair on pushed the button down and a my head.\ female voice came through the Willy nodded, almost iden- speaker: \There's a Mr. tifying with the man in blue's otcallme l)ere to see you, Mr. plight. Shemblech.\ \No said Shemblech, an- Willy shifted uneasily in his swering a question appearing chair. \I never knew you had a lines ago. \Nothing unusual.\ secretary.\ \Well if you do hear or see Shemblech thought for a anything, call me at the C~ntral moment. \I don't have a Park Zoo.\ As he turned to secretary. I only have an in- leave, the bright sun reflected tercom. You know how. bad its rays off the officer's badge business has b~en lately ... \ into Shemblech's eyes. He Willy's face turned as white closed the door and confronted as the wallpaper peeling behind his friend. him. \Its her! he cried, \What's \Willy how come you said it happening?\ . was-raining out - its sunny and Shemblech looked. · \The clear!\ wallpaper's peeling. You know \I knew there llad to. be some what this means?\ reason for the glasses. He ·was \' \She's trying to kill us?\ )·ust too tall, if you follow me.\ See \An Unmarried Woman\ · k 1 S \More importantly, ru have \Good thin ing. o he was with Jill Clayburgh this b bl · ht? B Friday, 10 _ 6 , at 9 :oo and 11 :OO to pay for repairs on this pro a y a spy, rig . oy, amount of time, your interest in the specific activity of that club is probably not your only reason· for joining: You just have so much work to do here at Union and so many parties to go to that to belong requires at least some sactifice. ·There must be something extra; something seemingly unrelated that holds our interest. The football team, for example, would recruit far fewer players if the only thing it offered was bruised and broken bones. I suppose there are those who would join for those very reasons, but most play for less·· massochistic moti\'es. All like to play. Some like the idea of getting -their names in the newspapers, (though if you are on the line your chances of mention in the Gazzette are not great). Others may play for the notoriety it brings them on campus. Some just like to hear the screaming crowds. It is the same with all our campus groups. People who like to hear themselves talk may become DJ's. People who have political ambitions may run for student government. If you like to sing dirty songs about strange women, and .enjoy rendering your liver useless through overconsumption of beer, then, of course, there is the Rugby team. Most everyone knows of the benefits of participation in the aforementioned clubs. People seem to know, however, very little a bout the benefits of belonging to tbe Union College Men's Glee Club. You get most of the· same benefits and have fewer obligations. Listen to what Jhe famous explorer and formcrglee club Ponce de Leon \\had to say about the Men's Glee Club: \l like to travel and ex- plore, and that is why I went with Union to Wheaton.\ How many clubs on campus have been to Venezuela, or any country for that matter, and had their trip financed com- pletely by that foreign country? Venezuela spent 150;000 dollars on the Glee Club. How maoy campus organizations have appeared at the White House for -a U.S. President? The Glee Club s · · .for Jimmy Carter in June . ,77. .. -. ·~~st groups stress. unity and pride but the Men's Glee Club's pride is a pride borne from building and building and finally achieving national · recognition. It is tremendously exciting to be a part of such an amazing success. story. The chances of creating such a club in a school that gives almost no support to the ArUf is like someone from Bermuda win- ning the.giant slalom in the next Olympics. Yet it h<rs h~ppened! It has happened without superstars. It has happened ~without recruiting or lower academic standards. It has happened with a bunchof guys who, forth~ most part, have had little or no musical training. In an interview last year, Professor Wilson, the director of both the Men's and Women's Glee Clubs was asked what the ingredient of success· was. Wilson said, simply, \They just try.\ He l~ft out, of course, his immeasurable value, but he has proven with our Glee Clubs that talent is nothing without effort. And, indeed, it may be -less important. The list of \arts\ · schools , with glee dubs less renowned than oors is almost endless. Don't be lazy! Make the ef- fort! Four hours a week is not much of a price to pay for what you get. The Men's Glee Club meets twice a week, Monday and Wednesday from 7-9:00 p.m. You can join at any time. On November 10 the men will be singing with 107 Smith women who try very hard. 1st Act: Adam Frey 2nd Act: MC: Andy Levine & Friends Gary Gla:uber Thurs. Oct. 4 at 9 & 11 Tic.kets on sale 8 p.m,, in Carnegie Bl: THERE! Union College Concert Committee and Homecoming Weekend\ Presents in Concert Karla BonoH Friday, October 19 at 8:00 p.m. UNION COLLEGE MEMORIAL CHAPEL Tickets: With Student I.D. $4.00 other $6.00 and Sunday 10·8 also at ~:oo plac·e.\ He carne upon some old you'd have made a great and 11:00 in SS106. memories. \Besides that closet, detective if you'd have stuck it_ Tickets available at Carneg.ie Hall ~o!:, ~~~·!, stay shut. ~~.:- •. _ -· '. Co~tinq~~ Oll;~!l9 .. -~ ~,...·\\...._.,......;;;, :-;.;..: .:..··:...;.:..:..;., ...... ...,., ...................... ~\;'- ....... ..,......~ ....... \\: .. ~·-+.~------~-·------' art~ New bySTEV Last Thur privileged t1 event whi gratifying ar of things t1 thrown in 1 North Colle~ to \today's' music. The floor was cl people bop frooging, or they felt likE Petty and tl The B-52!s, ~ I would likE ·commend th~ party as weH had the guff and enjoy there be mo talk, and I h~ into more pa is planning E and publidzE can. Maybe t percentage o weren't thert Tht> ohly II·~<Ike betweE t\ this piece • is that both J and vital hai hence the tit! lgg_\ Pop's \'alues. has I pHrty at No party last That's too ba this record >II t•etcn any ~ew Value right directio this is his 11 ithout the a Here, Iggy J: fum·tion very \1 usically, tl dense and v Ill usical noc Rowie slappe albums, The Life. Life re lggy Pop alb- have the trul the new reco \What mu: holiday?\ a: opening son Story,\ and which sets t entire record in this and th1 that he is rea~ on a day to needs some refreshment He's looking Values,\ thE track, but \come his v though; he ad prepared to wanna live tl which is a di: former \I'm l I'm gonna fucking plea: he espoused wiTh the le That stance ~eal of punk 1 1s now abser whimsical sa of womanhoc What \the here is that prepared for before the ne to exist arise straightened and now he i something t ~ut for. It is oy Us all another,\ through ape and re•asses

OONOORDIENSIS, October 4, 1919 Page 7 art6 - . . . ' . ' . ' . . . ·- . . ' ' . ; ' ' . . ~ . . ' culture New Values In Musi-c Mitch's Maze by STEVEMONOSSON , Last Thursday night- I was privileged to take part in an event which was t,ru:ly gratifying and a welcome sign of things to come. }. party thrown in Bronner House of North College offered dancing to ''today's\ rock and roll· music. The improvised dance floor was close to fiiled with people bopping, boogieing, froogin.g, or doing whatever they felt like to music by Tom Petty and the Heartbreakers, The B-5~i!!s, and Blondie. I would like wholeheartedly to eommend the organizers of the party as weB as the people who had the guff to freely express and enjoy themselves. Will there be more of it? There is talk, and I hope that talk turns into more parties. If any group is planning such an event, try and publicize it as well as you l'an. Maybe the other, too)arge, percentage of the campus who weren't there turn on to it. is our need, as he is, as Joseph Conrad would }:J~e it, \one of us.'' \Five Foot One\ is perhaps the most striking tune on the album. The super tight rhythm section of Klaus Kruger on drums and Jackie Clark on bass kicks the song open, as well as all o.f side two. This :is another iNstance where lggy has resigned himself to his fate I \I'm doing 'the things a five foot one man can do.\). Still, fue wishes ''life could be swedish magazines.\ The most beautiful moment ts ·'Angel.\ .It is his heartfelt trjbufe to womanhood, and it is emblematic of the new lggy Pop. Where before he warned \'You shouldn't mess with me, I'll ruin everything you are,'' r\China Girl\) now he admits \Without you, I doubt I'd be here.\ Iggy has stopped sneering at his fate, he is now glorifying it. Tht• ortly connection I will 111ctke between the introduction [ii this piece and the piece itself is that both parts concern new and vital happenings in music, hence the title. Other than that, lggy Pop's new record, New \'aim's, has little to do with the party at North or any other party last Thursday night. That's too bad, though, because this reco1·d has the juice to >IH'ctcn any social gathering. \African Man\ is the one sore spot on the album, as Iggy's apeish howling and hootings just don't cut it. I'm reminded of the presence ·Of .. Motorcycle Mama\ on Neil Young's Comes A Time. Ffumour is fine, as there is. plenty of rich funst uff on New Values; but outri-ght, moronic goofiness is uncalled for. W'hat's ••Nott '' New? ~l'W Values fs a step in the right direction for Iggy Pop, as this is his First solo effort 11 ithout the aid of David Bowie. llere, Iggy proves that he can fum·tion very well without him. \lusically, the record is less dense and without the extra- lllusical noodlings that Mr. Rowie slapped on to the last two albums, The Idiot and Lust For Life. Life remains as a great lggy Pop album, but it does not have the truly personal feel of the new record. New Values is a fine album, establishing a potent musical and lyrical groove which from start to finish is ne<;~rly unrelenting in its force. The listener is drawn in to the musical world, and is hard pressed to leave before a full impression is absorbed. It is hoped that the album will meet :.;orne commercial acceptance, which means you people out there have to buy it. For without it, once again art \'>'ill suffer·. It's about time the resurgence of art in music is truly felt. That would be surely a worthwhile new value to hope for. by DEMETRA PONTISAKOS There are plenty of things to look forward to in theater this year at Union, which should prove to make the r\ott Memorial a popular, and frequently - visited center of activity. This sear our theater director and drama professor, Barry Smith, is back with us from his sabbatical leave, along with some very exciting ideas and quite interesting per- sonalities- two things which should combine to make the Union College Theater Experience more thrilling this year than ever before. Barry has chosen to direct Top 10 At WRUC Singles 1. Hey, Hey, i'\ty, My (Into the Black)-Neil Young 8. Dream Police-Cheap Trick 9. Let's Go-Cars 10. Starry Eyes-Records 2. Rock Lobster-B52's 3. Girls Talk-Dave Edmunds 4. Good Girls Don't-The Knack 5. Dreamin'-Blondie 6. Cities-Talking Heads -Jeff Mitchell 7. I Fought the Law-Clash ~ / :r..r..r..r..r..rJ\'..r..r.r./..rJ\.r...r..r..rJ\\J'..o\.rJ.IO\'\..r.rJ\'..r.r..r..#'\..r/...cr..rJ\'..r..r..r..r..r~ £\mrm.ut I.Co[lr!Iutr Ports ~nthologp International Publications 15 sponsor:mg a j}ati-onal \Colltgr lJortrp <Contrst · Fall Concoun 1979 - - open to dll college and umv~rs1ty stu.dents desmng·to have the1r poetry anthologiZed. CASH PRIZES woll go to the top fo\e poems. $15 Fourth $10 filth AWARDS of free prmttng·for AtL accepted manuscrapts m our popular, handsomely bound ar\d copynghted anthology, AMERICAN COLLEGIATE POETS. Deadline: October 31 \What must I do to take a holiday?\ asks Iggy in the opening song, \Tell Me A Story,\ and it is -a question which sets the mood for the l'ntire record. :What he is saying in this and the following tunes is that he is ready to deal with life on a day to day basis, yet he needs some sort of .spiritual refreshment for which to live. He's looking for some \New Values,\ the next and title track, but so far nothing's \come his way.\ In \Girls though; he admits. that he is now prepared to JVait it out. ''I wanna live to be 98,\ he says,· which is a direct counter to his former \I'm gonna die young so I'm gonna do whatevei· I fucking please\ stance, which ~e espoused while performing wiTh the legendary Stooges. That stance involved a good ~eal of punk misogyny, but that I b CONTEST RULES AND RESTRICTIONS: s now a sent as \Girls\ is a 1. Any •rudent is eligible to 'submit hiS verse. Whimsical salute to the virtueS 2. Allontriesmustbeoriginalandunpubllsherl. Of WOmanhoOd. 3. All entnes must' be typod, double·spa<:<d, on ono side of the page only. Eat:h poernmust·be on a separate sheet·and must bear, 1n·the upper left What ''the· Ig\ l'S gettt·ng at hand corner·, the NAME and• ADDRESS of tho student.as well •• the COLLEGE attended. Put narne and addri!SS on envelope aho·, here is that one can be just so 1· There are no restrictions on form or theme. length of. poems up to P repared f th 'g f l·fe fourteen·lines. Each poem must have a separate,title. . Of . e rl OrS 0 l . (Avoid \Untitled\!~ Small blacl< md -Mlito illuuratiarn welcom\' before the need for a real·reason 5. Tho judges' decision·will IJ&final. No info.by phone! to exist arises. He has obviously 6. Entrantuhauld,keep • copy\' allen trio• as they cannot be returned. Straightened himself Otit SOm. e, Pnze winnor•.and allauthors.awardod frl)t! publication will be notified ommediately·after deadline. ·I.P.·will retalr:;-flm publlcation.rights for and DOW he iS in the market for \\cepted poems. Foreign languagopooms welcome. SOnlething to be straightened 7. There is an Initial one dollar regiitrotion leo lodhe first entry and a o.ut for. It ·l's a· pat\n Whl'_ch l·s felt fee oHifty cents for each additional poem. It is rnquosted to submit no moro tha11 ten poem$ ptr entrant. by Us all at one ti.Ine or B. All entries must be postmarked not later than the abo-. deadline and another,'' everyone goes fees be paid, cmh. check or money order, to: through a period of assessment INTERfli\'~.o:.:xP~:~~cArloNs and re-assessment. lggy's need . . . Los Angeles, cA 900# . . • . . . , . . Luigi Pirandello 's Six Characters in Search of an Author fall tern!. and the well- known :\Ian of La :\Iancha- a musical version of Cervantes~ Don Quixote - winter term. Both works are going t\ be re\'ised by PHOFESSOR Smith to better suit the :-;ott's theatrical capacities and Union·s en- vironment. Working on the Pirandello this term with Barry and the L'ast is Daro Beninati - our new full time technical director for the \\ott ::\1emorial Theater, Daro. who will be working on set and lighting design is also a chef and a playwright who has traHlled all oYer the world. We are pleased to haYe him with us as he has a lot to offer to our school. .\lso helping out \vith this term's production is the very talented Leila Blake. Leila is a guest artist from Australia who is here to teal'h Al'ting I. and VoicL' and Dktion-t\\·o drama courses. Ms. Blake is a well· known television. stage, and radio peeformer in England and Australia. Her visit to Union College was made possible through a 1\lelon Grant~ a grant which was given to Union to replace faculty member Charles Steckler while he is on sabbatical studying Italian Renaissance Art. While Ms. Blake is here at Union teaching, :.he will also be working as ·:ocal coach for the cast of Six Chararters. The Pirandello cast of eighteen-selected from ap- proximately thirty-five Im- pressive auditioners starts rehearsing this week for a :\' ovember 7th opening. The newlv·selected tast is as follo~·s: The six characters include George Siletzky, Verna Lowe, Sharon Rubin, Tom Farrell. 9-nd Demetra Pon- tisakos - with the children's roles . vet to be cast. The '\production staff\ who tries to transform the reality of these ~ix characters into a theatrical piece, includes Patti Chaifetz, F:d Horpsmann, Alan Binkow, Seth Mendelowitz, and Debbie Garber. Other members of the company are Barton Levine. Chris Phelan, Bambi Schlauch, Susan Kone, Lisa Livshan, Carl Strang, Bob Pollard, and Adam Frey. With such a talented cast and such able advisors coaching the t•ast. the fall production of Six Characters in Search of an .\uthor should pro,·e to be a perfect introduction to the wonderful things to come our way. in theater at Union thi':i ~ear. a different set of jaws. (i)., Coming Next Tuesday: \The Rocky Horror Picture Show!,~ at 10: 00 and a special midnight show 10-9 in SS106. Riff Raff will be wai fing 1 :11 )l .. .... - • - . - .. - .. - . -. - ::rJ\'J\'J'\~J\'.;\\J\JJ\'.r.,..,...~~....ocr-...,......;:.r..l\~. ....... ..;-..l\...rJ-..bc ~ ~ . . . . . . .. . ~'..... . , .. ._ _________________________ ........ .,, ... ,,

Page 8 OONOORDIENSIS, October 4, 1979 c \' \' \' :l. >- .D 0 0 if Jay Street by night-recent scene of the ·downtown Schenectady Association's \Welcome Back College Day.\ Entertainers from Union and SCCC exhibited thei·r Ia Ients on the street, wh.i le local merchants kept later hours to get to know students. Sharing Siblings The Union College Chapter ·of '3ig Brothers and Big Sisters vill begin .jts season of events tonight at 8: 00 with an organizational meeting. This will be held on the third floor (including the basement) of Carnegie. The organization which boasts of one of the largest memberships of any campus groups is social in nature. It is affiliated with the Schenectady Big Brother and Big Sister Program, which .is only a small part of the nationwide organization. The purpose of this group is to form friendships with younger children ( usuaily between the ages of 7 and 15) who are in need of a strong relationship with an older person who is willing to share their experiences. The · group has succeeded for marry years now in making younger children happy and of a healthier mind. While most of the work is carried out on an individual basis between the big brothers-sisters and the little brothers-sisters, many group activities are also sponsored. Some of these include picnics, parties and movies. The group also owns a car, which it operates out of Figi, to help facilitate meetings bet- ween the individuals. The meeting tonight is for all those students interested in joining as well as those present members. Come and make a friend! If you are interested and unable to attend the meeting contact Donna at 370-6528. Present · members as well are urged to call and insure that their name is included in the year's listing. Attention College Seniors! Enroll nowtobea .,La~er's ·l Assistant \I'm glad I did.\ • Day classes begin in February, June and September. Evening classes begin in February and September. • Approved by the American Bar Association • Two curriculums: general and specialized • Employment Assistance IJlcluded • Optional Internship available A representative from Adelr>hi University\ Lawy~r\A;;J\tan·t Program willbeat Un~n College on Oct. 10, 1979 .from 10:00 to 4:00pm Contact the Placement Office for an individual· appointnwnt or attend the Question and Answer Opp_ortunity for prospcytive 1tudcnt; wh iL:h will be held from 1 : 00 to L: 00 . !'or' more inrormation. rontad the Placement Office or the Lawyer's A sshtant Program, A delphi University,. Garden City, New York, ( 5 16) 294-S? 00. E\t. 76 04. ·-·-----------81-------------------------, : For a free brochure about thi~ ~:arcer orportunity call (511\) i I 294-8700, ext. 7604-5 or mail the wupon below to.: Center : : for Career Program'>, Lawyer·~ A~~i~tant Program. Adelphi 1 University, Garden City, N.Y. 11530 Adelphi. • : Day Programs · · 1 D_Springi980Feb.ll--:May2 · : D Summer 1980 June 9-Aug. 29 ADELPHI UNIVERSITY I D Fall 1980 Sept. 22- Dec. 12 tn cooperatlgn w1th the : Evening Programs Nat1onal Center for I D Spring-Summer 1980 Feb. 26- Paralegal TrarntniJ. Inc ·: Aug. 26 CPS 5 : 0 Fall 1980 Sept. 30-April 9, 1981 1 Name • Phone I I I Address 1 C1ty State . Zip Ad!\lphl Unlvrrslty.admltsstudents on lht· basis of tnd!vldual ml'rll and without r~gard tn ract·. color. t·ro•t•d or st·x Octoberfesf: Recruiters Drawn To Union by PETER PERRIN On Friday, October 5 and Saturday, ·October 6, Union College will host 49 companies in the Hudson~Mohawk Con- sortium .of College's first Octoberfest of Business, Government, and Service. Mrs. Betty· Goadman, director of Placement at Union, started designing the program as early as last- January. Because students were not looking into many plausible companies during last year's recruiting season, Mrs. Goodman decided that there should be a program to bring representatives from com-' panies to Union. Originally a plan in conjunction with the Sc.enectady Chamber of Commerce, the Octoberfest started to draw nationwide companies from· those associated with the United Way to Xerox to Eastman Kodak to the Human Resources Planning Council. asked about a broad spectrm11 of fields of which they had no previous knowledge. The Ortoberfest will be held in th~ Fieldhouse October 5 and 6 from 9:00 a.m .. to 3:00 p.m. and all students are encouraged to participate. The following companies will have lU:>IJli:l) ~ Soon, after the program grew, ··i all 15 colleges of the Hudson- o Mohawk Consortium joined in. The program will allow students to speak directly with representatives of the various companies, many of which will provide elaborate displays, and f0r students to bear questions 0 0 If Adam Frey, Union. College senior, eats fire on Welcome Back College Day. - Aptna Life and Casualty, · Albany. International,· Huttalo ,Forge, Community Health Plan, Di-gital · .Equipineht, Eastman Kodak,. Factory Mutual, Finserv Computer Corp., Goulds Pumps, Inc., Graphic Sciences, Harrison Radiator, Humaf! Services Planning Council, IBM- Endicott, IBM-Fishkill, IBM- Owego, Intermagnetics, Kearns Agency, J<nolls Atomic Power Lal:l., Metropolitan Insurance Co., Naval Underwate.r Systems, New York State Dept. of Civil Service, New York State Dept. of General Services,. N.ew York State. Internal Revenue Services, New York State Dept. of Social Services, New York State Police, New York Telephone; O'Brien and Gere, Owens Corning, Peace Corps- Vista; Planned Parenthood, Pratt & Whitney, Rochester Products, Schenectady Boy's Club, Schenectady Chemical Co., Schenectady Savings Bank, Schenectady Trust Co., Sentry Insurance, Tete-Resources, Inc., Texasinstruments', Union Carbide, U.S. Air Force, U.S. Army, U.S. Marine Corp., U.S. Navy, United Telecom- munications Corp., Union College Volunteer Services, United Way, Warner Cable and Xer-ox. ~-----AREA CALENDAR--.. October 4-State University of ork's Plaza gallery at Albany vill exhibit the art and lore of ne of SUNY's most unique ··ampuses from October 4- ovember 9 when \Now Hear his: Images and-Artifacts rom the Maritime College\ is m display. The Plaza Gallery xhibition will be on view from 8 .m. to 6 p.m. Monday through i'riday. For further information :all Peter Gordon, Director of he Plaza Gallery at 473-1012- .962. October 5-7--Artists, per- ormers, musicians, art 1istorians and writers will be gathering to lead workshops and exchange information at the Womanwarks Conference on Women in the Arts, sponsored by the Albany YWCA and the College of St. Rose. The event will be held at the. Albany YWCA. For further information eontact Tina Murch or Susan Chast at 438-6608. October 5-The Imaginus Art Organization, in cooperation with Student Activities, will be C(mducting an exhibition and sale of fine art reproductions to be held from 9:00-5 p.m. at the College Center. October 6--A 25-year retrospective of works by the well-known American sculptor, Richard Staniewicz will be held at the University at Albany Art Gallery October6-November 25. Hours for· this exhibition are 9 a.m.-5 p.m., Tuesday-Friday; 9 a.m.-8 p.m., Thursday; 1-4 p.m., Saturday and Sunday; closecl Monday. October 6-The Gray Film Atelier is opening its prodessional Screenwriting Unit to area residents who are interested in learning to.master the special techniques of writing for the cinema and television. The unit will consist of 10 three hour classes which will be held on Saturday mor- nings at the Atelfer's Hoosick Falls Studio. For further in- formation call 686-5985. October 7--TREASURE HOUSE: MUSEUMS OF THE EMPIRE STATE--Art and artifacts from 50 prominent New York musetims, including works by Matisse, Picasso, and O'Keefe. The exhibition will be held daily from 10 a.m. to 5 p.m. at the fourth floor Terrace Gallery, New York State Museum, Empire State Plaza, Albany, N.Y. For further in~ formation call 474-5877. October 10--ART EXHIBITION AND SALE: 500 pieces of original Oriental Art presented by Marson, Ltd. of Baltimore, 10 a.m. to 4 p.m., at the Schacht Fine Arts Center. For further information, call 270-2344 or 270-2246. LECTURE October 9-The Dalai Lama, spiritual leader of some six million. Tibetan Buddists, will · speak at Syr~use University October 9. The program will take place in Hendrick's Chapel at 6 p.m. For further in- formation, call (315) 423-3861. MUSIC October 5--Mwsic-Guest Artists Vibeke Sorensen and Tom DeWitt will appear at • SUNY Albany's Performing Arts Center on Oct. 5 at 8 p.m. The program VIDEO ART AND ELECTRONIC MUSIC will take place at the Lab Theater. October 6- The Burnt Hills- Ballston Lake PTA Arts-in- Education Committee is sponsoring a benefit concert, BARBERSHOP BONANZA on October 6 at 8 p.m. at the Burnt Hills-Ballston Lake High School Auditorium. The concert is a rare joint appearance of the· River Valley Chapter of Sweet Adelines, Inc. and the Racing City Chorus of Saratoga. For further information, call 399- 6393 or 399-7224. October 11-The New York· State Museum will present a. series of noon hour concerts by faculty of SUNY Albany's Music Department, on Thur- sdays, beginning at 12: 15 p.m., October 11 thr<lugh November 15, in The Auditorium. For further information, contact the New York State Museum, 474- 5842. October 11-The· Department of Music, the University at Albany, in cooperation with the New York State Museum, will present a series of Thursday Noon Concerts in· the Auditorium featuring Findlay Cockrell and other members of · 'the Music Department. \Music at the Museum\ will begin at noon, October· 11 and continue through November 15. For further information· call 457- 8205. THEATER October 7-The New York State Museum will present THE SHOP ON MAIN STREET, a full-length film about the im- pact of the Holocaust, at 1:30 p.m., Sunday October 7, in the Auclitorium, Empire, State Plaza, Albany. For further information, call 464-5842. October 9-The film \The Champ,\ with John Voight and Faye Dunaway, will be shown at the Schacht Fine Arts Center .at 7:30 p.m. For' further in- formation, call 270-2344 or 270- 2246. October 10--DEATHTRAP has been scaring the wits out of its audiences at . Broadway's Music Box Theatre. The actors would like you to join them on Wednesday evening, October 10, at 8 p.m. The Music Box Theater is located at 239 West 45 Street. For further information call 541-5144. Exhibition and Sale of Ori~inal Oriental Art An outstanding selection of Antique Orienta.l Woodblock Prints. plus Original . Etchings, Woodcuts, Lithographs by. Contemporary Oriental Printmakers. Union College Carnegie Hall Mon. Oct. 29, 1979 Arranged by . 10a.m.to5p.m. Y..«JtlJQ!J. Ltd., Baltimore , Md. 21030 - . · - . •- . . (Purchases may be ci'targed) Sh Continued out throw \Thank Shem~lecl was too vi( I'm aller po~er.\ . ''Yes, ol rates are place Js c me more ''After 1i got marri' Shemblt RO 91\i 'Pa1 Cet Sur AL

' y OONOORJJIENSIS, October 4, 19\19 Shembleth, Part II Continued. • • Continued f.rom page 6 out through training schooL\ ''Thanks but no thanks, Shemblech. All that rough stuff was too violent for me. Besides, I'm allergic to fingerprint po~er.\ . ·'Yes, oh well. The insurance rates are hell. I'm broke. This place js .coriling apart. So tell me rnore about Lola.\ ''After we started dating we got married.\ . Shemblech couldn't believe his ears. \You were married to Lola?\' \Well it was sort of a quick happening. A ShQtgun wedding. I had fl Winchester and she had a Smith and Wesson. For the honeymoon we took target pracitce on the white beaches of the Bahamas, totally mutilating little jellyfish. I remember how we were so damn crazy in love with each other then, and the sounds, like littl~ 'flaps', when we used to shoot these FIRST Co_ffeehouse OF THE TERM F • • . ·1cf10n Bro.thers friday Oct. 12 8:30 Cabaret Room (This W·eek Only) gefatinous buggers. Shemblech brought Willy back to his senses with'a strong command. · ''Come back to your senses, Willy. We've no time for sen- timent now.\ ·'Things started to go bad after the honeymoon.\ \What things?\ \Ah I don't know. Personal things. Like I would run out of ammo late at night when she was in the mood for shooting up another round.\ ''Nothing but blanks, huh?\ ''Yep, and she wanted the real thing. Just the sound wouldn't do.\ \Hmm that's funny. I heard it was all psychological anyway. Well, go on.\ \She started dating soldiers. After a bit we were separated. It hurt. I still have the scars.\ \Look we may not have much time left. Mind if I just' call you WiU?\ \Not at all. Lola joined forces with those radical haber- ,dashers, the Zootsuit Alteration ArmY,:1 and made a natne for herself. I read about it iN the papers and remembered how I used to sit at home and make names f<?r her. But the old days were gone. She wa.s out on her own, swearing eternal revenge on all mankind! \ \I thought she was just out to kill you and me.\ ''Well, when she realized how many men there were in all mankind, she narrowed her sights down to just me and my best friend. Then the war broke out. I still remember the day. I had a terrible rash.\ ''So whatever happened to her?'' ''She was asswned to be either missing in action or given away as a land concession at the • agreement of peace.'' \You haven't seen her sin- ce?'' Shemblech sounded skeptical but his breath smelled clean. .' ''No, although I keep having dreams about her lately.\ \You don't have a picture of her with you, do you?\ Shemblech appeared to be up to some sort .of .scheme. As a matter of lucky coin~ cidence, Willy did. He reached down into his wallet and pulled out a small snapshot. \Will this. do?'' ··That'll do fine. Let me have it.\ \What's up, Shemblech?\ ··I'm up to some sort of a scheme, Will.\ Shemhlech pulled a box of Crayolas from inside his desk and set about drawing something onto the photo. Willy protested his actions. ··Hey-what are you doing - that's my only copy!\ But Shemblech pt.!sned him away ... .. Believe me, Will, it'll be worth it in the long run if my hunch turns out right. Now hand me that bag of soil.\ Shemblech spilled the soil onto the photo and then cleared most of it awav. \You see, Will, I think the CORDUROY SHIRTS CORDUROY SLACKS by Famo'us Makers in assorted fall colors. First quality. S22 value 16 wale, butter-soft cotton corduroy with button-thru flap pockets and epaulets. First quality. In navy. rust, brown, grey. hunter green and burgundy. Sizes S.M. L & XL '18 value ~ ROT,TERDAM, Rotterdam Mall, STORE HOURS:lO- . 9 Mon-Sat, 12-5 Sun. ALBANY, Wolf R.oad Shoppers Park, STORE HOURS: 10~9: 30 Mon-Sat, 12-5 Sun. Century II Mall, STORE HOURS: 10-9 Mon-Sat, 12-5 Sun. · ALSO IN Kingston, Bennington, Vermont. Page 9 man who first came to see me, that Mr. Otcallme, was really Lola in disguise. Not one page in that coloring book had been done neatly or colored between the lines. Look here. I have drawn the chain an\ the earring onto the chin. With a layer of dirt to help the effect, this photo is an exact likeness of the caller. I'm sure that was what the dirt was to be used for.\ \But I don't get it, Shem- blech.\ Willy was as puzzled as a jigsaw. Shemblech's mind cut through the clues like a buzz- saw. ''She still loves you, Will. I do believe she wants you back. \He looked grimly at his best friend. \That is, if you'll take her back.\ There was a tense moment. Willy swallowed his pride with a small glass of water and said, \Of course I'll take her back, I've always loved her, no matter what.\ At that point the door burst open, as if on cue, and Lola as Mr. Otcallme came flying fnto the room. After a successful landing, she stepped out of the ·~ cockpit and embraced WiUy. Willy shook his head from joy and shook Lola's head from lack of something better to do. \Just one question, Shemblech - how did you know that she wanted me back?\ \It was the old memory coming back to me, Will. As you may know, I was studying to be a paleontologist before I changed my major to private investigation.\ \Yes. So?\ \The name Don Otcallme spelled backwards is emllac- tonod. I thought it sounded familiar so I bothered to look it up in an old textbook. An emllactonod is an extinct species of dinosaur that always returned to its original home. Unfortunately, these air- breating creatures were born in the sea. Many ·drowned themselves by following that silly instinct. They didn't last very long. Anyway, the message was pretty clear to me. She wanted you to come back to her.\ · The happy couple waved from the door, once again re-united. Shemblech found it hard to believe that they could get stuck like that, but he gave a hefty shove and they were through the door at last. \How can I ever re-pay you for this?\ asked a most grateful Willy. \Money would be nice,\ replied a tired Shemblech as he turned from the door back into his crumbling office. INTERNATIONAl CAREER? A representative will be on the campus WEDNESDAY OCTOBER 17, 1979 to discuss quaf,f,cations fer • adva,nced srudy at AMERICAN GRADUATE SCHOOL and job opportunit as ln the field of INTERNATIONAl MANAGEMENT Interviews may be schedu'led at Career Counselor Co-Director AMERICAN GRADUATE SCHOOL OF INTERNATIONAL MANAGEMENT Thunderbird Campus Glend<lle, Arizona 85306 I ----------------------------------~--~~----------~------~----~'·~~------~~----1 ' I.. •\.

/ . Page 10 CONOO~l)IENSIS, October 4, 19\/9 classifi.eb.s BULLETIN BOARD PHOTOGRAPHERS: There \Hll be an important meeting of attyone interested in taking pictures for the Yearbook on Thursday. Oet. 4 at 7:30 in the Union Book room-3rd floor Carnegie. --------~- Hall, or give their names to any committee member--W. Aubrey, Mechanical Engineering; R. Schaefer, Chemistry; A. Thimm, Administration &. Management; G. Willia.ms, Electrical Engineering and . Computer Science. \Before Union: The Morris Spring Break March 22 to 29- · Story\ is the title of the ex.hibit TAN IN SO. AMERICA. The preparedby Schaffer Library to student adivities office is coincide with the inauguration planning a trip to Cartagena, of John Selwyn Morris as the open to the whole campus 16th president of Union College. community. A travel night will On view fron1 October 5 to he offered in the Conf~rence :\olovember 2 in the Music Room Hoom, 3rd £loor Carnegie on and lobby of the library, the Th1:1rs. evening Oet. 16 ?t 8 p.m. exhibit wm feature personal A film on Cartagena, free beer memorabilia of the Morris and a representative will b~ fan1ily as well as photographs present to answer questions. and descriptions .from travel Cartagena off~rs history, books of the places the Morrises founded in 1533, swimming, have lived, from Wales to snorkeling in the Caribbean, Hamilton, N.Y. Perhaps most night life, casinos, discos. Your interesting will be a synopsis of hotel will be the Hotel Caribe the scholarly work Dr. Morris · with private beach, ol~mpic · currently is engaged in. size pool, air-condiHoned ' The new President and Mrs. rooms. More details will be in Morris will be present at the later editions. Be sure to make opening of the exhibition from 4- the Travel Night Tues., Oct. 16 5, October 5. at 8 p.m. Campus contact The vestibu'le ami basement Lorraine Marra in the Student cases in the library will hOld Activities Office, 6118. and display aspects of earlier inaugurations. All students of any major at all interested in law or closely related fields of interest are invited to attend an organizational meeting of the Union College Pre-Law Society, Tues., Oct. 9 at 8 p.m. in SS 113. We have many exciting possibilities to discuss including preparation for the LSA T' s, working for law firms and government offices. There will be an organizational meeting of When Diplomacy Fails, Union's simulation game club, on Fri., Oct. 5 at 8 p.m. in SS 110. Anyone interested in simulation games, war games, role playing games, D and D, Diplomacy, etc., is welcome. Coffeehouse needs student acts. Anyone interested in performing for Coffeehouse please contact Roberta or Geri 377-2.694. An ad hoc committee has been established to determine the qualifications fortenure of Professor Robert Baker (Philosophy). Any member of the College community who has relevant information to con- tribute is urged to get in touch, in writing or in person, with one of the members of the com- mittee: Professors George ( B i o l o g y .) , G i r d n e r (Psychology), Ludwig r Philosophy), and Jonas (History). ---------------- An ad hoc committee has hePn appointed to gather I.\Jidence on the tenure ·1ualifications of Professor Ingrida Dambergs, Catalogue Librarian. Any member of the faculty, staff, student body or alumni who wishes to contribute information to the committee orally or in writing is asked to contact Professor William B. Bristol, 214 Social Sciences Building, Ext. 6221. Evaluation of tenurability of Assistant Professor Frank F. Milillo. The Provost has ap- pointed an ad hoc c.ommittee tc evaluate the tenurability of Assistant Professor Frank F. Milillo of the Mechanical Engineering Department. Persons who are able to con- tribute to the committee's in- vestigation are invited to submit statements to the chairman, Prof. George Williams, Department of Electrical Engineering and Computer Science, Steinmetz All are invited to attend. New York State Senate Session Assistant's Program and New York State Assembly Int-ern Program will be handfed by the Office of PCR. Please stop.. by for additional in- formation. FOR SALE Moving out West-must sell- will sacrifice. Waterbed, King Size, new, includes quality heater, heavy duty liner, f>edestal, finished frame, in~ sulator, 2 full sets sheets, king comforter. $375. Rug, 1 month old-12x10 1 '2, 2-tone, light-dark brown, 75 pet. wool, 25 pet. nylon~includes extra runners, full padding, $175. Violin, 75 yrs. old, handmade, copy Stradivarius, new hardshell case, 2 new bows with ac- cessories, appraised $500. Will sacrifice, $300. Please call 374- 4467. Amy Krupp. . CALCULATORS!! TI AND CASIO LOW COST, FULLY WARRANTEED CONT AC'l' JEFF ESAKOV 370-6558 LOST AND FOUND $25.00 Reward!! If anyone sees a green and blue canvas \Tough Travelier\ duffle bag with 3 black straps (one long one for the shoulder), please notify Coach Barta at 6284. The bag may also have a leather tag on it which has, (or had) my mime on it. The bag was stolen from the Fieldhouse on Sept. 26. It was a personal gift from my 1977 basketball team and means a lot to me. I would appreciate any information. Thanks. Coach Lynne Barta. PERSONALS Kappa Sigma, I haven't seen your \Stiefel\ in the Pub for a while!! L.Z. You will never be forgotten, for we will not forget you are not a judge and had no right to pass judgment. Rebecca: Do not be mistaken, we will not be forsaken. We will let you live in peace, although you should be in pieces. Carole: See- you on the sidelines next weekend,...a fellow Rugby widow C: How about brunch with A-unt Bonnie? Wendy Norm and Eve: Happy 25th! Love R,B,H, and Lady Riehand Sven-Thanks for the pizza the B-B-Q, and for helping with the fridge--Joann and \1arie VB Team-Congrats! Nasty To the guys wlw. were in the Skel~ar on Sunday--It was Saturday!! K.A.--Where.'s my tooth- brush? Who's got my razor? \Hi'' in the shower! Naughty· Little Girls Ester: Where are the Missile silos now? Melissa: Siphonophores can clog up drains! Barb: Arachnids for sale Geoff: Thanks for the. party- Everyone Da ha: Nice shirts Melissa: Last chance for ride to Walbash Andy: Looking for Littorina's with Bean monogram? Contact Geoff. To the guys of Second Floor West: EAT SHIT AND DIE!!! Guess Who? How's it goin' Rudy? Blossom Rudy: Half a pie!?! Blossom Rudy: So what d'ya think of N. History? Blossom P: It really wasn't your fault that I fell asleep last Thursday night. Me. Fuzz: Don't forget her bir- thday! ~ Michelle: Happy 18th Bir-' thday! L<:>ve, Marla, Amy, Huda and Fuzz. Fuzz: You look like a dead fish! Fuzz: I gotta headach~. Fuzz: Like wow man, those guys really blew my mind! ! I just can't comprehend ... Phyllis: Nice fresh bediboo! To ~he .Goy from the Shiksa .. Dave, Be mellow. ha-ha T0 Two Mysterious Ladies: The real fun came with the solving of the JllYStery! Your Sunday night Rats Hey Sue, I just wrote phiklsophy number twenty-six. To our dearest Debbie-Happy Birthday. We an miss you and all the \good times\ we had. Your ex.'s WE WANT POUSETTE- DART. If interested in becoming a member of the Union Celibacy Club contact Joe at 6525. Pete--the Collar is very becoming but I really do not . think you should wear the leash in public. Gale-And here is your typical fraternity brother.. . . Worma-we did it! Vegas has ~ us booked! -Fatrell G.S.-Old actors never die ... _ wc>lcome back, and thanks! ! ! ! ! Hagc--''Little House on the Prarie\ Monday? We'll bring the popcorn. Moth and Star Ed-I could just eat :beetles! Demc--Atsa Nice! (What a· Phat Phyliis line! )-Phyllip --~~~~- Sharon share alike--·· Half Sister!\ Whatever happened to \Loving BossT' · Willy and Linda~! liked you better when you lived next door. At least you can choose your · · friends.-Sonny OCLA LIVES! Stu-dogs? ... dogs? , .. Dogs? ... Dogs? ... DOGS? ... DOGS? ; . . DOGS? ! ? ! ? ! SIGNED, A FELLOW RS FAN. Hob-Haw tee poggety, dun dee doo, ni ni ni, wooooooo:r- Mitzi Gaynor • . · J .S. and Mitch-- Frank, Moonunit and Dweeze want to hear about your lofty ideals.- Tex W elr, you see, a dildo is· a pickle-flavored Dunkin' Donut . .. sorry. I' UCLA UNITE! .Patti-Are you psyched? Will you be able· to manage? .What direction are you going in? Hey 1000-Thanks for having us, and we like intimate par- ties.-Those who are on but would rather be oc Deme, Deme., Deme--Why don't you ever come visit us? Roseann and Margaret . Vicky J--What were you doing .. when you lost your contact? Anne, J.D.-We miss you. Hope you're having fun , in Scotland. Don't forget to bring back what you promised us! Roseann and Marge Stu-My son, my son, please come visit,. we miss you .. Besides, we don't have anyone to do mega~beers with! H.E.S. and Your Mother Ernie-Do the mentals have sex? Happy Birthday -Felicia in 351 from 364. Lisa Beth~Wben was the last time you sang \Happy and Peppy and Bursting Wtth {..ove\? · I am hereby increasing my bid for an American History Thesis. The topic needs to be decided quickly so please get in · tDuch with me soon. If I like it you'll . be a lot richer and I'll have a lot fewer headaches. If it's worth 225 dollars to you, let me know. Pam S.-Boy do I feel like a Sue-I've-never-tried-pot•and- heel+ I thought it was this · I-can't-handle-the·peer-pres- coming Saturday, and. not sure--Anonymous meeting Saturday pa,st .. The offer $till Friday·at 3:30 in the gardens.-· holds for 104>if''yoi.l'q·Iike to go'. the other member for dihner; otherwise I. shall ' banish myself to Siberia or even · Brad and Lydia-up for a third worse Newark ... Forgive me?- . time together, huh? .. the spring -Bob term, almost-randy groupie. Jay--Thanks for being so nice and understanding. Margaret Stinky-When are you going to get rid of the beard? Margaret - Jim Hoffman-In In Case Case · You You Are Are Still Still Seeing Seeing Do!,J.ble Double This Th}s Should Should Look Look Normal Nm::mal To To You You .. ?~;J~ ~~ 464 State St. we deliver Schenectady 374-1888 ·-· -------------------------------------- ..... .,' . .. .. \' - ~ ,.., •• - or' ~ .• ., - .. ... ' . J·•L ~ ;r . . .,.-.-. ,~ ,/ I ·. __ ,........._ L· ~ .,.·flo .... ~. • •' - .... ..- f!l1'4 ~· , ... • \ .. .,. tl • • - \\ ,. ,. .,. ,~ ~I';·¥·~ ~ I' ,. ~ . \\ ., ~ e-.\' ., ·' \• , .... 4 ,. ., -2' ~ ,. ,.. .. ~ <\ / ;. • ~· ; ,.,. , .• .r' ., \\ ... l ,- . \ \\'=\ .:~ - ! / / / .,... ~ ' ~ ,..,.. ,.~ \' ..r r \~ ... NEW YORK :::: ;>·· ·: ~:~ · I ruNI:, RSITY .. .,.t U~l-l:~ .· ... ~ .r· I , I ···::;:c A PRIVATE UNIVERSITY IN THE PUBLIC SERVICE \ ,- / \· ..,.-· ./ / r Rug Hor The UColl I .rered a 10-6 set\ of Albany L Saturday. Ala: out to watch defensively mi In the first trouble puttin~ but experier exhibited by Capital Distr1 · taking comma Midwaythro Albany capital · turnover and : · defenses to n · which held im1 The second I . · as the fir1tt di hitting and Ci both sides. Ten half Albany I eluded Union•: Won The won basketball tea any0ne intere part of this E Union. The we been very sw two years. I~ earned its NYSAIAW Di To1:1rnament f by BARE An Undefeat is what the Uni Hockey team i year. Selection III state tou closer with ev' The win OVE Monday was aggressive sc1 Bathaina ~ Heininger, DE freshman Holl' 1 victory over· gave the worn~ boost in confid The 2-2 tie Mi.ddlebury l was the clo: women nave Middlebury sc• first half and t goal by Ms. Ho Women' were when Bathaim on a breakaw; with two mim clock. At Thurs~ Frida} Wedn

OONOOBDilfJNSlS~ October 4, 19'19 Rug.gers Drop Home- Opener The UColl Rugby team suf- fered a 10-6 setback at the hands of Albany Law School last Saturday. A large cro.wd turned out to watch a hard hitting, defensively minded game. In the first half Union had trouble putting things together, but experience and spirit exhibited by Union kept the Capital District rivals from · taking command. Midwaythroughthe first half, . Albany capitalized on a Union turnover and slipped by UColl . defenses to record a 6~ lead · which held until the half. their lead to 10-0. It seemed now that Albany would surely run away with the game, but Union's strong determination turned the. momentum almost immediately. Steve Carter's 40 yd. sprint for atry posted the score at 10-4 and Eric Zuckerman's ensuing · drop kick made it 1M. Ruggers in action. The second half began much as the fir&t did, showing hard hitting and cautious play by both sides. Ten minutes . .Tnto the half Albany ~.aw once again eluded Union's defense to up Union played aggresively for . .:: the rest of the game, but could a- not produce the go-ahead ~ points.. The finiil gun sounded ~ and victory was in the hands af tl. Albany Law. Union did play a 1l fine !{arne, though, and should E look forward to more rewarding f achievements. Rug'by's ne-xt game is home a;gainst Albany State this Saturday. The· team could use crawd inspiration and su~port, Hope to see you there. -x-Country W ornen Hoopers: Despite a strong .showing by a pair of freshmen, the cross- country team could produce no better thiin a split in the season opener last Wedllesday against Siena and Oneonta State. The youthful Dutchmen shut out a weak Oneonta team 15-50, but were no match for a strong Division I Seina club, dropping a 20-35 decision. The woman's varsity basketball team is looking for. anyone interested in being a part of this exciting sport ·at Union. The women's team has beeR very successful the last two years. I~st ye;:tr's squad earned its way rnto the NYSAIA W Division III _State Tournament held at Hartwick College. Desire is all that is necessary to be part of this team. There win be a meeting an October 9th at 4:30pm in the Block U room in the Alumni gym for anyone interested. Come out of the woodwork and be part of it all this v:ear! Tom Dalton of Siena, the Field Hock~y Still On Top by BARB -i'LO'l'KIN An Undefeated season! That is what the Union Womens-Field Hockey team is playing for this year. Selection for the Division III state tournament comes closer with every victory. The win over Hamilton last Monday was captured by the aggressive scoring of juniors Bathaina Shukri, Ellen Heininger, Deb. Downey and freshman Holly Howard. The 4- 1 victory over strong Hamilton gave the wom~n a much needed boost in confidence. The 2-2 tie score against Mi,ddlebury last Wednesday was the closest the Union women nave come to defeat. Middlebury scored twice in the first half and Union once with a goal by Ms. Howard. The Union Women' were trailing by one when Bathaina Shukri, scored or~ a breakaway, to the game wtth two minutes Left on the clock. The team won their third game Friday with a 3-1 win over Vassar. It proved to be the most aggressive game of the season due to the ''what makes the grass grow?-blood!\ attitude of the Vassar women. Freshman Emily Monosson scored in the firs(half with an assist by Holly Howard. Deb \Puffer\ Downey scored twice in the first half with assists by Ms. Monosson and junior Nancy Colt. The Womens Field Hockey team plans to continue their ~m.defeated season with an away game against Castleton on Oct. 3 and a home game this Friday against Oneonta. Support the Union Womens Field Hockey team by coming down to Garis Field to watch the team shoot their way to the Division III state tournament. Campus Activities ... Continued from page 5 Sunday, October 7: Monday, October 8: Informal Senior Pictures all this week (10-8-10-12) in Jackson's Gardens. Field Hockey vs. Sienna, 3:00 Field Hockey vs. Green Mountain, 4;00 Tuesday, October 9: Informal Senior Pictures, 9-4 Wednesday. October 10: Informal Senier Pictures, 9-4 W omen's Tennis· vs. Hart- wick, 3:00 · Speaker's Forum presents Alexander Ginsberg, 8 p.m. in Memorial Chapel_. At Dutch Hollow This Week: \ Live Entertainment! Thursday Nigltt Tom Farrell & Verna lowe starting at 9 Friday & Tuesday Nights Friday & Saturday Night~ Wednesday Night Happy Hour 9:30-10:30 House Drinks 60~ Beef & Brew 5-8 p.m. Beer or Wine with dinner / 25¢ Millers 9-11 p.m. The Pizza Pub Is Open ! ! Pizza & Subs 4 p.m. - 1 a.m. weekdays 4 p.m. - 2 a.m. weekends state's premier cross-country runner, lead a quartet of Siena runners •across the finish line. At the start of the race Dalton immediately went to the front with only captain Pete Vielkind and freshmen Dave DP.llehwlt challenging. The pair stayed close to Dalton as they passed the mile in 4:55, but began to fade at two miles and Dalton waltzed to ai<J easv five mile win in 26~34. • Freshmen Ed Arnheiter and John Casale were the top finishers (or the Dutchmen, finishing fifth and sixth respectively. B6th fell behind early in the race but surged towards race end and gained ground on the leaders. But it was too little and too late to overtake the frontrunning Siena group. ALBANY STATE Adam Licht, Vielkind and Dellehunt rounded out the scoring five for Union with seventh, eighth and ninth place finishes. The women's team fared better in their portion of the meet. Freshmen lnge Stockman and Danielle Cherniak coasted to a one-two finish with team- mate Laura Kronk adding a fourth place finish. No team scores were kept in the women's race. e Despite the loss to Siena, coach Ted Btck was pleased with his young team's effort and felt that the close finish of the first five runners ( 34 seconds) was a sign of future success. The team travels to Williams Saturday and to Middlebury next Wednesday. PRESENTS Fall Fest Carnival at the State University Uptown Campus Thurs. Oct 4 thru Sun. Oct. 1 Rides * GaQtes * Food HARVARD BUSINESS SCHOOL MBA PROGRAM An Admissions Representative from HarvaiG-Graduate S~hool of Business Administration will be on campus TuL'suay, Octob2r\ 9, 1979 to meet with students interested in the two-year_MBA Program Contact the Career Planning and Placement Center for more details and to sign up for an information session. Harvard Business School is committed to the principle of equal educational opportuni9' and evaluates candidates without regard to race, sex, creed, national origin or handicap.

Page 12 CONOORDIENSIS, October 4) 1919 6pOrt5 Footba'll Dumps WP·I Dan May kicked for 10 points :tnd Hich Romer rushed for over 100 yards including a touchdown to pace a 16-14 union victory llVer WPI of Worcester, Mass. Although · Union offense 111anaged only 195 total yards, defensive play was tough and .t<(gressive forcing six WPI turnovers, three ·0f which resulted ill Union scores. Homer, making his first appearance of the year, entered the game when Senior tailback, Mike Squire, sustained an in- jury to his ribs on the opening kkkoff. The running back carried 31 times for 108 yard~ including a 29 yard run up the middle for Union's only touch- down. \I'm glad we· won and I'm glad I could help,'' said Romer. When asked if the lay off hurt him, Romer replied, \It hurt me some but I always keep myself in good shape. My legs felt great. today/' Union scored first when May connected on the first of his field goals,...a 37 yard boot to put Union up 3-o. Late in the second quarter, after Union defense stopped a WPI drive at the One yard line, the offense failed to move the bell and the Dutchmen were forced to punt. May's punt was blocked by WPI's Bob Yule and recovered in the end .zone for a WPI touchdown. The extra point was no good and Union trailed at the half way mark 6-3. Early in the second half, Union defense recovered a fumble setting up May for his second field goal ·of the day, this one from 28 yards. On the following kickoff Unicm recovered another WPI fwnble. Rich Romer ran from the 29 yard line on the ensuing play for Un.lion's only touchdown. May cmnpleted the extra point putting Union on top to stay 1343. Union picked up its finalta!;ly late in the third quarter when a Dana Johnston to Kevin rrederick pass setJhe stage for a 35 yard field goal. May's third for the dav. WPI added a touch- down and a two point eon- version in the closing seconds but Union held on for its' first victory 16-14. Union's offense showed vast improvement over last weeks scoreless effort. Coach Cahill was pleased saying \The of~ fense looked alot better this week. Johnston played with more poise and Frederick and Wright were coming up with some big receptions.\ He added \the offensive unit still has a way to go before it reaches its potential.\ Union's defense put on another fine display this week. \We played aggressive throughout the game,\ stated co-captain Ron Plumb. \What mistakes we made were aggressive so they didn't hurt us much,\ added the defensive end. The victory brings Union's Sports Happenings Oct. 4-0ct. 1 o Varsity Football Varsity Soc-cer JV Soccer Cross Country Women's Tennis Field Hockey Women's Volleyba.ll Oct. 6atColby Oct. lOat Albany Oct. 10 at Albany Oct. 6 at Williams Oct. 6vs. RPI Oct. 10 vs. Hartwick - Oct. 5 vs. Oneonta Oct. 6vs. RPI Oct. 8 vs. Green Mountain Oct. 6 vs. Kings Women's Tenn.i5 Starts Slow When tryouts were held for the \.\omeA's tennis team, thirty people turned out to fill fourteen spaces. Coach Bob Driscoll had five days to select and to organize a team. The following women were chosen to represent Unio9: Shelly Eckstein, Karen Gebhardt,- \1arcia Hepford, Debbie Hof- nich, Judy Kilday, Sue Maroni, .June :Vturphy, Handy H.ibakove, Amy Rosenfeld, Lauric Seid- man, Linda Sher, Nancy Shideler, Renee Venutti, and Karen Young. The first week they faced the toughest competition they would ha vc all season: Hamilton, Middle bury, and Vassar colleges. While none of the matches were won, some members were victorious. Against Hamilton, Renee Venutti, playing first singles, Sue Maroni, playing third singles, and Randy Ribakove, playing fifth singles, all df'feated their opponents with scoreso£6-4,6-2,2-6, 7-5,7-5,6-3, and 6-1, 6-3; respectively. Against Vassar it was the second doubles team of Karen Young and Linda Sher and the third doubles team of Laurie S<'idman and Karen Gebhardt that were victor·ious with the respective scores of 7..fi, 7-6; and 7-5, 6-2. Having had a week with no matches has allowed the team to practice hard and develop strategies they believe will lead them to a winning season. The next match will be against R.P.I. at home on Saturday, October 6. rPcord to l-1. Union will be in \laine Saturday to challenge Colby. Colby beat Union last year and boasts 18 returning starters. \It\s not too often you t!et a second chance at a team,'' smiled Coach Cahill. \And · revenge is sweet.,., · EXTRA POINTS: Senior halfback Mike Squire bruised cartilage in his ribs in Satur- day's game against WPI. The severity of his injury is un- certain although he will not suit up on this Saturday. Senior safety Terry Weber dislocated . his shoulder in the opening game against Bates. He is expected to sit out a good portion of the season. Senior Bill Egan sustained a knee injury opening day also and may be out for the season. Senior Rich Romer. Soccer Loses Hea,rtbre,aker by RICH KONYS The West Point Cadets visited Union last Saturday, but they weren't given a military welcome. Backed by the sup- port of a capacity crowd at Garris Field, Union 4tilized a deadly attack of rocket shots, superb :passing\ and all out hustle to gun down the State's eighth ranked Cadets 2-0. From the onset, it was ob- vious that Army intended to be physical as a number of Union players were grounded by slide tackles. Union showed, however, that they tqo were a physical team as they took control of the game early and limited the Cadets to few shots in the first half. The half endei:l in a knotted score of 0-0 as both teams r.etired to regroup. Stimulated by the intense play of Jim Stoothoff, Union picked up the pace in the second half. The first Dutchmen score came at 28:34 as Hans Bukow. headed a perfect cross from Mike Canning past a sprawling Army goalie, Mike Connor. Conner, who has only allowed one goal this year, seemed to be baffled by Union's scoring power as he fQund himself out of position and bobbling shots time and again. Army fought back with in- tense huste shown by Jim Ahn who set up numerous fast breaks. The Cadets almost got on the board when goalie Doug Crawford was ~caught away from play due to a previous save. However, the attack was· halted by a heady play by Brian Shea. Union humbled the Cadets with its second goal at 21:49. Jim Stoothoff set up the goal with a missile of a shot which rebounded off a stunned Conner and was booted home by Canning. TRACK: There will be a meeting for all candidates for the Track and Field Team for the 1979-1980 season in the Block U Room of the Alumni Gym on Monday, October 8 at 8:00P.M. Both men and women who are interested in Indoor and-or Outdoor Track should attend this· meeting. Any interested candidate who is unable to attend should contact Coach James in the athletic department. At this point it seemed that Union wasonitsway to an easy victory. As coach Magee paced the sidelines in the late- going, flashbacks of last years game against. Army must have been racing through his mind. During that contest, Union led 2- 0 .Jate in the game when an announcement was made or- dering all plebes to report to the soccer field. Pi.s the cheers of 2000 cadets engulfed the field, Army stunned Union with three goals and the win. This time the commands from their coach and the Army bench were proven useless as Union wore down the clock to victory. Mondays action against St. Lawrence did not prove as fruitful for the booters. They were defeated 4-3 in an exciting overtime game. Union took the opening goal at 4!>: 52 in the first half when Hans Bukow headed in a lofting pass directed from the left wing by - Keith Miller. Action continued with both teams playing aggressive soccer on rain soaked Garis field. At 17:09 St. Lawrence scored on an indirect kick which knotted the score at 1-1. Si. Lawrence then took advantage of some sloppy defensive play on the part of Union and netted their second goal with 7 minutes remaining in the first half. The half ended with Union trailing 2-1. Union opened the second half with signs of comeback. Two minutes into the period Canning, shooting on an open goal, hit the cross bar missing a goal by micro-inches. Miller who had been playing superbly all day continued to pressure St. Lawrence's defense. Finally at 33:27 he fed teamate Stoothoff on a free kick who beat the goaltender on a diving head shot. End to end action finally led to a goal by St. Lawrence bringing the score to 3-2 in favor of St. Lawrence. Union, determined not to be shown-up by 6th ranked St. Lawrence, again tied the score on a 35 yard out floater by Miller, Miller end~d up the day with 1 goal and 2 assists. Regulation . ended at 3-3 and the outcome was to be decided by two overtime periods. Unfortunately for Union a mix up in front of their goal allowed St. Lawrence to duck in the final and winning goal 6 minutes into the first overtime period. The hard fought loss brings Unions record to 2-1. Captain Keith Miller in action. '~· -1 Vol._ Johr Pre~ For by Thd last we all Stuc to the Goven c!eadlin all pro~ both th' Facult~ 8th. - Prof€ of the Commi attend meetin1 some o propos~ System ments Stu den week's page 2; Minute~ distrib: Adviso Preside Amon with Pt meetin~ propria Student the ra variom amend! rnechan the Stud formal 1 recomn: from t Council behind ; policy amendn Dean R mally gi College· Student rolicy. r substan plicatior Group; responsi SAC, i.e responsi fecting : and the for Col fraternit After c the weigl Forum 1 amendm 5b3. of tl Structur' have giv Council mend pc

d ] , i • ... Founded at l/nion CQ/lege 18 77 VoL J09., No. 4 John S. Morris will be inaugurated as Union's sixteen·th Pres·ident on Saturday. Forum Meets Twice: Schenectady, New York Thursday, Oct. 11, 1979 . - . MorriS Inauguration Set On this Saturday morning, October 13, in Memorial Chapel, .John Selwyn Morris will be inaugurated as the sixteenth president of Union College and tenth Chancellor of Union University. The former provost and dean of faculty at Colgate University was namea president on :V1arch 14 by Union's Board of Trustees after a ten-mtmth search which in- volved more than 175 can- didates. Morris succeeds Th0mas N. Bonner, who left Union to become president of Wayne State University, and Norman Auburn, who was ·Union's interim presid.enl during the 1978-79 academic year. various representatives of the Union community, Unio~: University, the State Regents. and sister institutions. -\s a prelude to the rn· stallment of Dr. Morris a:- sixteenth president by Chair- tHan Day, the Men's and Women's Glee Clubs will sing Alleluia :\1otet bv J.S. Bach. Following the president's inaugural address, honorary degrees will be presented to educator Thomas A. Bartlett. scholars Basil G. Mitchell and Mary Marley Crapo Hyde, and conservationist Paul Schaefer. The glee clubs will then sing Ode to Union. The Rev. Dr. Dvkstra will deliver the benediction and the recessional will begin to the music of the Schenectady Pipe Band. Amendments Finalized Tnauguration ceremories will ennm,ence at 9:30a.m. with an academic procession from the Science and F:ngineering Building to !VIemorial Chapel. Attired in full academic regalia. delegates from tnore than 115 ,·nlleges and universities and 12 learned societies and organizati.ons, will march with the College faculty, the trustees. the Alumni Council! representatives of Union's 17 fraternities and sororities, and former president, Harold C. \1artin. William C. Stone, professor of mathematics, will serve as ·marshal, and will earry the gold-headed cane of the Rev. · Dirck Rorneyn, a founder of Union. The proce$sion will be led bv a color ~uard and the Schenectady Pipe Band. Hugh Allen Wilson, professor of music, will initiate the ('eremonies in the Chapel with an original composition to be played on the organ. An in- vocation by the Rev: J. Dean Dykstra. pastor of the First Reformed Church of Schenectady, will precede a welcome by Dr. Richard G. Day, L'hairman of the Board of Trustees, and greetings from A luncheon at Memorial Field House will be marked by a brief address by Thomas A. Bartlett, president of the Association of American Universities and former president of Colgate University. by ANDREW WISOFF The Student Forum met twice last week in an effort to finalize all Student Forum amendments to the new proposed College Governance System. The clearlline for the submission of an proposed amendments--from both the Student Forum and the· Faculty-was Monday, October 8th. . . Professor Nichols, Chairman . of the Governance Drafting Committee, was invited to attend portions of both Forum meetings in order to discuss some of the finer points of the proposed College Governance System, as well as the amend- ments being proposed by the Student Forum. (See last week's issue of Coucordiensis, page 2; or the Student Forum Minutes, which were recently distributer! to all Resident Advisors and Greek Presidents.) Among the topics discussed with Pt·of. Nichols at the two meetings were: the most ap- propriate wording for the Student Forum amendments; the rationales behind the various Student Forum amendments; the proposed mechanism that would enable the Student Forum to call for a formal reconsideration of policy recommendations emanating from the Academic Affairs Council ( AAC); the philosophy behind a'-Faculty veto of 'AAC policy recommendations; an amendment being proposed by Dean Kellett that would for- mally give the President of the College the opportunity to refer Student Affairs Council (SAC) policy recommendations, with substantial budgetary im- plication~ to the Conference Group; the implications of the responsibilities charged to the SAC, i.e., the \broad overall t·esponsibility for palicy af- fecting all student activities,'' and the \overall responsibility for College policy affecting fraternities and sororities.\ After considerable debate and the weighing of possibilities, the Forum unanimously voted an amendment to delete section 5b3. of the College Governance Structure. Section 5b3. would have given the Student Affairs Council the power to recom- mend policy affecting student activities. The Forum's · rationale for deleting section 5b3. was that the responsibility for the budgeting and organization of student ac- tivities falls under the jurisdiction of the Student Forum, and that the inclusion of section 5b3. would be a possible source o£ conflict between any future Student Government and the Student Affairs Council. r Note: ''policy recom- mendations'' are tantamount to \making policy,\ insofar as only a veto -by the President of the College will prevent a policy recommendation from becoming actual policy.) Following the vote to delete section 5b3., a motion was made to delete secticn 5b2. which gives the Student Affairs Council the power to make overall policy recom- mendations affecting frater- nities and sororities. Presently, overall policy affecting Greeks is determined by the Dean of Students and the various assistant deq_ns under him. Once again, there was con- siderable discussion as to whether or not the Forum should vote to delete a charge to the Student Affairs Council. Unlike section 5b3. though, the Forum voted to keep section 5b2. The Forum reasoned that a policy recommendation coming from the Student Affairs Council--with its 5-4 student majority-would probably be more sympathetic to Greeks, and would probably- be more equitable to both Greek~ and independents, than a purely administrative policy. In other discussions, the Student Forum discussed ap- p€aling a recent library ad- ministration decision to the All- College Senate. Library hours were recently changed · such that the Library has been closed on Friday evenings in order to provide extra wee~end hours at the end of each term. It was later learned that Jean Pelletiere, Head Ubrarian, was willing to revert back to the old schedule if students requested such a change. Ms. Pelletiere, commenting Monday morning, said that Friday evenings are easier hours for the librarians (since fewer students use -the library) and that the library staff was going out of its way to l . ·accommodate students whg have expressed a desire to see the library open longer hours during the two weekends before finals. At the next Forum meeting, the Forum will decide the best method of measuring student sentiment on this ' Continued on page 3· Dr. Morris, his wife, Enid Eiry Morris, and his seventeen- year-old son, Paul, will reside, as now they do, at the on- campus residence for the Continued on page 5 Steinmetz Program Begins by PAUL FEINSOT At the beginning of this academic year, a letter went out to selected sophomores and juniors asking them to par- ticipate in an \honors program.\ This letter from Professor Byron Nichols, director of the program, states that this is \a major new program for students who enjoy intellectual challenges and thrive on serious discussion.\ The proposal to create \The ·Steinmetz Curriculum,\ as it is ealled, was submitted to the campus in January of 1977. In defining the purpose of the program, the draft mentioned the irony \that Union College currently pays least in- stitutional attention to the one _group of students who represent the intellectual and academic excellence for which this in- stitution historica!Iy stood.'' The report also indicated that ·•as a result of examining programs at other institutions, one point is clear: no other institution does less for its best students than Union, although several do no more than we do.\ On Friday, October 19 at 8:00p.m. Karla .Bonoff will be performir at Union College's Memorial Chapel. Most people who have hear of Karla Bonoff are quick to associate her with Linda Ronstad Whil.e Karla has written hits such as ulose Again\ and \Someor To Lay Down Beside Me,\ most of the glory has been credited 1 Ronstadt rather than Karla Bonoff. However, with the recer release of her second lp, Restless Nights, Karla Bonoff has taken over center sti;lge with her dynamic voice as well as her already renowned ability as a song~riter. Tickets available in CarnJ!Qie Hall-·$4.00 for Union .Col.lege students. . · Thirty-nine schools responded to this survey, and of this number twenty-three have some kind of formal honors program · of a departmental nature (involving special seminars, tutorials, faculty research programs, etc.). Sixteen other schools offer some type of college-wide honors program with a separate curriculum. Last April, the Educational Policy Committee submitted a report which recommended approval of the \Steinmetz\ program. As defined in this report, the program will consist of \a seminar (one course credit) to be offered initially in the Winter term, 1979, and each term thereafter, as a prerequisite to the Honors Term.\ The second part of the curriculum is \a full term <the Honors Term) of individual or small group study and research, or equivalent creative endeavor, normally to begin in the term following the Seminar.\ A third facet of this plan is to introduce regular colloquia which would be under the direction of the· Scholar in residence and participating Honors Faculty. The colloquia, informal seminars, and oc- casional special programs will be open to the entire campus. Professor Nichols related that \all interested students at the College are invited to enroll for any specific course.\ Selection for the course is according to the standards or criteria established for that course by the instructor and the Curriculum Director. Nichols also reiterated that \the asswnptwn of the Steinmetz Curriculum is that students wbo are curious, rigorous, and reflective deserve a special learning opportunity within the context of undergraduate, 'liberal education.\

Page 2 00NOOR1JIENftlS, October 11J 1979 EDITORIAL Tuition Break During the academic year past it was brought to the attention of the Educational Policy Committee (EPC) that there exists on campus a large bloc of students dismayed with the idea of having to pay .full tuition for terms in which they shoulder less than a full course load. As people who had gained extra course credit through Advanced Placement, swnmer school, transfer, course overload, etc., these people were discouraged at the college's unwillingness to discount their final term (or terms) at Union, terms in which their extra credits made it feasible for them to take fewer than the 'standard three courses. To be sure, ,every 1979 graduate of Union concerned about this point left the college tmappeased, but what, if anything, we should like to know, is being done by the EPC and-<>r the college to solve equitably this problem in order to benefit students in the years ahead? Our idealistic educators ~e wont to urge us, as students, to not cultivate consumerist attitudes towards our education. \Take coW'sesthat will engage you intellectually,\ we are coiDiilonly told, ''instead of classes in which you ~e likely to register high grades only.\ Otllers tell us, \Treat your years at Union as a process of persqnal growth, not merely as a means by which to obtain a saleable degree.\ The concept of education for education's sake is a fine ideal which, like most ideals, falls short of universal realization. But grade-conscious students are not the only group to blame for this failing; the college's administration, through its money-consciousness, largely undermines' the ideal as well. Certainly, in the administration of a college there are financial considerations which must be addressed. But, just as certainly, these financial realities will hover over our educational ideals to cast the shadows known as 'necessary evils.' The rule requiring students to pay tuition bills prior to registration constitutes one suchnecessaryevil, asdoes the regulation mandating extra tuition payments for course overloads. We think that it is a blatant injustice that students taking course underloads should be required to pay full tuition. The seemingly contradictory policies of extra tuition for overloads and no tuition discounts for underloads are, as it turns out, not so contradictory after all; both are designed to benefit the bank balance of the college to the defrhnent of those of the students. And so, in this one instance at least, the students are being \ripped off\ by the college. What better way to promote within the students a cynical con· smnerist attitude towards his or her education? What worst way to promote the ideal of education for the sake of education? BECOME A CONCORDIENSIS Writers STAFF MEMBER Copy Readers Typists Photographers Distribution Come up to our office on the top floor of Carnegie Hall any Tuesday Night from 7 on to the sunrises • • • Editors-in-Chief News Editor Features Editors Layout Editors Sports Editor Assistant Men's Sports Editor Women's SoortsEditor Arts Editors Photo Editor Photo Staff Layout Staff Copy Editor Classifieds Staff Business Manager Subscriptions Calendar . Doug Rosenfeld Sara Simmons Paul Feinsot Donna Creeley Sue Barnhart Rachel Mandel Danny Wojnllower Mark Palomba Rich Hope Barb Plotkin Steve Monosson, Cindy Aranow Pat Wright J effSteinberg, Steven Krisky Beth Meyer Melissa Gold, Darren SalUlders Ellen Van Dyke Roberta Moss Ellen Rubin, Roberta Moss, Karen Covey~ Jeff Warman Carole Reinig Martha Rubenstein, Scott Witkin, Ellen HoltZman Ellen Berger, Maria Manfredonia CONCORDIENSIS is published every Thursday by the student body of Union College, Carnegie Hall, Schenectady, New York, 12308; Publications Office: Susquehanna Publications, Inc., 8% Reynolds Ave., Oneonta, New York 13820, (607) 43241737. Entered in the Schenectady Post Office as third class matter. Subscl'iption rate: 35 cents per copy, $10 per year, delivered anywhere in the United States. TOtally Washed Out (Diary of Dave Snapcrackle) $ Sunday, October 7th, 10:00 Today I decided it was about time to do my laundry. Well, actually the clump·of mold that grew on my underwear decided for me. I fearfully and cautiously approached the three-foot, green and slimy pile in my closet; baseball bat in one hand for protection, and a laundry bag in the other. Before I could get a jump on my wardrobe, · my clothes . surrounded me and stated, \We've got you covered.\ A rabid sock made a jump for my leg, but I luckily got my bat on it before it struck. After a long and arduous battle, I rounded up my clothes (\Lasso\ would have been a better word) and headed for the laundry room. Sunday, October 7th, 10:20 Because it was some time since I had previously done my wash (Two months and three pounds of mold ago), I was reluctant to .tell anyone what I was carrying as I headed for the laundry room (You could say I never let the Ja-\cat\ out of the bag) ... (Jacket ... Get it?). Anyway, from the looks of the place, I lrnew it was a very long time since I had been in, or even near, a laundry room. (No Washboard?? No Wash Basin?? No Soap Flax??). Luckily, a fellow classmate (by the name of Don) saw my dilemma and offered his assistance. Unfortunately, Don lost con- sciousness and passed out at the sight of me emptying my laundry bag. I was alone . . . alone to face the perils of my first wash. Sunday, October 7th, 11:00 I really didn't understand why Don fainted ... Besides the maggotts and ·the U.B.O.s (Unidentified Black Objects), I didn't see anything unusual about my laundry. Well ... It was about time to start the wash. Luckily Don wasn't using his detergent and I really didn't think he would be needing it either (He needed more in the way of a Cardiac-Arrest Unit than his detergent). I disregarded the mumbo-jumbo on Don's box of \All- Temperature Cheer'' and decided half a box would be sufficient to clean my putrid load. I shouted a few high school \Rah Rahs\ in front of the W<!sher, added the soap, and left. · Sunday, October 7th, 12:30 I realized I had used too much \Cheer\ when the soap suds hit my room on the fourth floor of West Dormitory ... from Rich- mond's laundry. room. I made my way back to Richmond (Ba£;kstroke mainly) and retrieved my clothes ... from the ceiling, floor, lamps, etc ... By the time I had found all my clothes, the suds had sub::.ided and the dryer, as it is sometimes called, was next. In the clothes went, and out I went. Monday, October 8th, 10:30 When I remembered I had left my clothes in the dryer at Rich- mond, I dashed right over and with fire hose in hand, ex- tinguished the load. I was left with three pairs of one legged pants, five pairs of . color- coordinated shirts (all charred- brown)., one six-inch towel, two shrivelled up socks, and all of my underwear was gone. One good thing though . . . the maggotts are dead. Monday, October 8th, 11:00 _ As I sit_back and look at the damage that ·I 'have inflicted upon my clothes, one thing comes to mind. That one thing is that this whole experience was a blessing in disguise Now I can start all over and buy clean, new clothes. Yeah ... Great ... I've got it!! Everytime my clothes'pile up and get moldy, all I have to do is throw them away and buy new ones . . . Yeah!! That will solve a lot of problems ... Everyone at l.Tnion College will do the same and I will become famous and .. _ and Next Week: ZOO~LYMPICS N Kenn Dean c with a Union< and u Dean New ' popula scquen ··large each y that du sendim c·ollege finite finanoL di vcr: baekg1 Howcv• of ove1 stated. relatio student f)p;m h with n and stu a comr Secor ilnprcs: c·ourse sn1all • that Un with th• or her Com1 pendinf -.;tudent c·ollege others, ''there the- en doesn't be affec after. ~ bothers prospe< nation. impact and up< frighte1 When altimat Nourse prospe< long, n plied tc rmany Arne Con questio Final after c: propos; decide< that w Octo be pointe• Senior· \by vil was tl submit to cha Commi sibility for th Forum mittee make recome a few\

Page 2 CONOORDIENSIS, October 11, 1979 EDITORIAL Tuition Break During the academic year past it was brought to the attention of the Educational Policy Committee (EPC) that there exists on campus a large bloc of students dismayed with the idea of having to pay full tmtion for terms in which they shoulder less than a full course load. As people who had gained extra course credit through Advanced Placement, summer school, trcmsfer, course overload, etc., these people were discouraged at the college's WI willingness to discount their final term (or terms) at Union, terms in which their extra credits made it feasible for them to take fewer than the ·standard three courses. To be sure, every 1979 graduate of Union concerned about this point left the college unappeased, but what, if anything, we should like to know, is being done by the EPC and-or the college to SGlve equitably this problem in order to benefit students in the years ahead? Our idealistic educators are wont to urge us, as students, to not cultivate consumerist attitudes towards our education. \Take ceurses that will engage you inteliectually ,\we are commenly told, \instead Gf classes in which you are likely te register high grades only.\ Oth'ers tell us, \Treat your years at Union as a process of persqnal growth, not merely as a means by which to obtain a saleable degree.\ The concept of education for education's sake is a fine ideal which, like most ideals, falls short of universal realization. But grade-conscious students are not the only group to blame for this failing; the college's administration, through its money-consciousness, largely undermines tt.le ideal as well. Certainly, in the administration of a college there are financial considerations which must be addressed. But, just as certainly, these financial realities will hover over our educational ideals to cast the shadows knGwn as 'necessary evils.' The rule requiring students to pay tuition bills prior to registration constitutes one such necessary evil, as does the regulation mandating extra tuition payments for course overloads. We think that it is a blatant injustice that students taking course underloads should be required to pay full tuition. The seemingly contradictory policies of extra tuition for overloads and no tuition discounts for wtderloads are, as it turns out, not so contradictory after all; both are designed to benefit the bank bal~ce ~f the college to the defriment of those of the students. And so, m th1s one instance at least, the students are being ''ripped off\ by the college. What better way to promote within the students a cynical con- sumerist attitude towards his or her education? What worst way to promote the ideal of education for the sake of education? BECOME A CONCORDIENSIS STAFF MEMBER Writers Copy Readers Typists Photographers Distribution Come up to our office on the top floor of Carnegie Hall any Tuesday Night from 1 p.m. on to the sunrises • . . Editors-in-Chief News Editor Features Editors Layout Editors Sports Editor Assistant Men's Sports Editor Women's Soorts Editor Arts Editors Photo Editor Photo Staff Layout Staff Copy Editor Classifieds Staff Business Manager Subscriptions Calendar Doug Rosenfeld Sara Simmons Paul Feinsot Donna Creeley Sue Barnhart Rachel Mandel DannyWojnilower Mark Palomba Rich Hope Barb Plotkin Steve Monosson, Cindy Aranow Pat Wright Jeff Steinberg, Steven Krisky Beth Meyer Melissa Gold, Darren Saunders . Ellen Van Dyke Roberta Moss Ellen Rubin, Roberta Moss, Karen Covey, Jeff Warman Carole Reinig Martha Rubenstein, Scott Witkin, Ellen Holtzman Ellen Berger, Maria Manfredonia CONCORDIENSIS is published every Thursday by the student body of Union College, Carnegie Hall, Schenectady, New York, 12308; Publications Office: Susquehanna Publications, Inc., 81J2 Reynolds Ave., Oneonta, New York 13820, (607) 432-6737. Entered in the Schenectady Post Office as third class matter. Subscription rate: 35 cents per copy, $10 per year, delivered anywhere in the United States. -~-~-etters Liasons To the Editors: the Student Forum Secretary. It was in no way consciously meant to upset or insult the three seniors who received rejection notices. I have never considered myself above By vote -of the Board of mistake and unfortunately this Trustees, the AU-College happened to be one of those Senate's Admissions Com- times. I apologize to all students mittee was changed to the new concerned and will try to never Admissions Liason Committee let a \screw-up\ like this occur t ALC). Besides the name again. However, r must point chanJing, the Admissions o~t that the premature I A a sun Committee membership disclosure had no bearing t)n the wottld allow only two students act~tal selection process wh~ch.­ (seniors). compared to five was given great consideration student members on the old l}y COC .. Thy, St\tfl:ent .· FQrum Admissions Committee, NQt ~mJCQCwjllq alltb~y·cuthis outrage that these im- provements can be made but . have been ignored. How can we t:ffidently serve the students' social life when actually we can only cater to two hundred at one time? We suggest that you seriously consider these improvements and take immediate action. Thank you for your time. Sincerely;· Michele Coven Shelley Eckstein · having be~n directed differently . . y~r. ~~~ -1;1~ · •.. . . •. _. ... . re-s})Opsfbl'W t9 · · by the AU~College Senate, la$t . . tbe !Stttdent tl~dy., l · · · .· . J ~ ··• .• year's Conunlttee on C{ttn\. fhQ:t our ~h;~t$f;epsi& •fm:y . tnittees. ( CQC) chose fivf.l well stunlbl*'; · .. :. , .. ··. · qualified seniors to fill the five student spots on the Admissions Committee, Upon arrival at Union this Fall 1 r was informed that c.mly two students would !)e · allowed to serve on the ALC. · After talking to Dean Nourse about the problem facing coc. it appeared that our only choice would he to choose two {Jf the five students originally selected. These five students were notified of the problem and the guidelines which COC would follow in making its decision. The. five seniors were understandably concerned q.bout the problem, but neither I nor anyone on COC received word from any of the applicants expressing their disagreement with the process we would follow. After reading the five Admissiotis Committees ap~ . plications, COC deliberated for nearly an hour and a half before making our decision of who would serve on the ALC. Written notification to the five seniors informing them of their acceptance or rejection was not in their mailboxes until Mon- day, October 8th. However, before this date the ap- pointments were disclosed to Coneordy, and this is clearly against COC policy. The rnix-up was due to lack of com~ munication between myself and Thank you, Dave'O'C~>nnc>r Vice ~r~ident,St~4~nt.Farqro ChairJllaey;· • · €unlm,il1lii!e on Comnrittees · :\' .··. ,-·. ,-- .. #!tv.· :,·m· ·_.· ., _··· a··s······ .. ·· ...,,,;····.,· ._··: .•..... · Ignored Dear Dean Kellett: As' co-chairman of the Social Committee, it has recently come to our attention that the maximum attendance in the Alumni Gym cannot exceed two hundred. There is currently no · fadity ortcampus for any large student function. It is costly and unnecessary for the student body to make arrangements -off campus for such an event. Cliff Woods, Director o£ Security, explained to us that for the second year in a row his report on the condition of Alumni Gym stated that safety improvements needed to be made. By adding alternative exits and an emergency lighting !iystem the capacity could he increased to at least four hundred. We feel that it is an . fir~ y<ni! a .. student living m N \ '\h P-ott·&g\'1 'l'•'f . . . 0 . • . . vh \A:J liQ . ..,. , mave YQU een· plagued b-y an annoying in~ terf~rence pattern on your stereo, radioor•telev.ision? If so, the mystery i.s over. The interference- is~ coming from the Ham Radio Station-an on-campus dub. 'The antenna is located directly behind North College and when the station is in u.se the sound waves cause interference. IE the sound is much too loud it can be lowered considerably, but it cannot be alleviated because (lf the location of the antenna, We feel that an effort should be made to change the location of the antenna so that the listening and watching i·ights <1re not disturbed--we have rights, too! Michele Coven Elaine Siegel Valerie Juster Cynthia Hurley Nanette Koryn I.isa Klein Erica Marmon Continued on page .9 Totally Washed Out (Diary of Dave Snaperadde 1 \\ Sunday, October ith, 10:00 Today I dedded it wa!j about time to do my laundry. Well, :Jctually the clump-of mold that t!rew on my underwear decided for me. I fearfully and c·a ut iously approached the three-foot, green and slimy pile in my closet: baseball bat in one hand for protection, and a laundry bag in the other. Before I could get a jump on my wardrobe, my clothes surrounded me and stated, \We've got you covered.\ A rabid sock made a jump for my leg, but I luckily got my bat on it before it struck. After a long and arduous battle, I rounded up my clothes (\Lasso\ would have been a better word) and headed for the laundry room. Sunday, October 7th, 10:20 Because it was some time since I had previously done my wash (Two months and three pounds of mold ago}, I was reluctant to tell anyone what I was carrying as I headed for the laundry room (You could say I never let the Ja-\cat\ out of the bag) ... (Jacket ... Get it?). Anyway, from the looks of the place, I knew it was a very long time since I had been in, or even near, a laundry room. (No Washboard?? No Wash Basin?? No Soap Flax??). Luckily, a fellow classmate (by the name of Don 1 saw my dilemma and offered his assistance. UnfOitunatelv, Don lost co'l- sciousness and passed out at the sight of me ej:llptying my laundr~· hag. I was alone . alone to fat'f' the perils of my first wash. Sundav, October 7th, 11:00 I really didn't understand whv Don fainted ... Besides the maggotts and ·the U .B.O.s !Unidentified Black Objects), I didn't see anything unusual about my laundry. Well ... It was about time to start the wash. Luckily Don wasn't using his detergent and I really didn't think he would be needing it either 1 He needed more in the way of a Cardiac-Arrest Unit than his detergent J. I disregarded the mumbo-jumbo on Don's box of \All- Temperature Cheer\ and decided half a box would be sufficient to clean my putrid load. I shouted a few high school \Rah Rahs\ in front of the washer, added the soap, and left. Sunday, October 7th, 12:30 I realized I had used too much \Cheer\ when the soap suds hit my room on the fourth floor of West Dormitory . . . from Hich- mond's laundry room. I made my way back to Richmond (Backstrolte mainly) and retrie\·ed mv clothes ... from the L\eiling floor, lamps, etc ... Bv the time I had found all mv d~1thes. the suds had subsided and the dryer. as it is SlHHetimes called. was next. In tht' dothes went, <itld out I went. VIonday, October 8th, 10:30 When I remembered I had left my clothes in the dryer at Hich- rnond. I d<ished right over and with fire hose in hand, ex- tinguished the load. I was left with three pairs of one legged pants, five pairs of color- eoordinated shirts r all charred- brown), one six-inch towel, two shrivelled up socks, and all of my underwear was gone. One good thin~ though . . . the maggotts are dead. Monday, October 8th, 11:00 As I sit back and look at the damage that I 'have inflicted upon my clothes, one thing comes to mind. That one thing is that this whole experience was a blessing in dbguise Now I can start all ~ver and buy dean, new clothes. Yeah ... Great ... I've got it!! Everytime my clothes' pile up and get moldy, all I have to do is throw them away and buy new ones ... Yeah!! That will solve a lot of problems ... Everyone at Union College will do the same and I will become famous and ... and Next Week: ZOO-LYMPICS N~ b Kerm Dean o with a Union a and Ul Dean r New ' popula sequent \large i each YE that dl:lE ~ending , ollege, finite I finarll'i< diver~ bal·kgr !IOWl'VE llf over ~tated. ,·eJat io: ,f 11dent: J)p;lll h< \\it h ll .tnd stu< .t {'(Jll\tl St'clm llli(ll'l'S~ nlllrse srnall l' that Un \\ ith thl •1r her< Comr pending -t urlent: ··ollege others. ,, \there i the cru doesn't bc' affec aftl'r. 1 bothers pros pee flat ion . impact and upo frighten When nlt imatc l 'Jourse ' I pros pee I' long, n: plied to rmany < A me Con1 questio1 Final after a propose decided that W< October pointec Senior \by vir wa:> tt submit to char Cornn lit sibility for thE Forum tll ittee lllake recome1 a few~ The r - (l\ ... 1. .J,.)~ C.....· '·~ '• ;-'( \\ri i ~ i ..

OONOORDIE NSIS, October 11, 1919 Page 3 ' New Dean Welcomed by PAUL FEINSOT Kenneth A. Nourse, the new Dean of Admissions, disagrees with a common conception of · Union as ... a college of look-alike and uninteresting st~dents. '' Dean Nourse recognizes that New York State is heavily populated, and, as a con- sequence\ Union can expect a ··large influx of these students\ each year. He further re~ated that due to the increasing cost of sending a student to a private C\ollege ·compounded with the finite resources in terms . of finandal aid, a .student body of diverse socio-economic background is unlikely. However, \Union has a couple~ of overriding attractions,\ he stated. The· first is the relationship between the students and the faculty. The Tkan has found, upon speaking with many faculty members and stud~nts, that this i'S, indeed a community of people. Secondly, Dean Nourse is impressed with the diversity of t•ourse offerings which this sn1all college claims. He said !'hat Union provides the student with the freedom \to control his or her academic destiny.\ Commenting on the im- pending void in the nmnber of ..;tudents that will be applying to l'ollege from this state, and others, the Dean told us that ''there is no indication yet that the- crunch is upon us.\ He doesn't believe that Union wilr be affected untilaround-1983, or after. There is one thing that bothers him mo're than this prospect, and that is the in- nation. He regards its advense impact upon· higher education, and upon everyone, as the most frightening reality. When asked why students ultimately choose Union, Dean Nourse replied that lie sees prospective candidates all day long, most of whom have· ap- plied to six or seven colleges t many of them small colleges), Amendments . .. Continued from page 1 question. Finally, on Sunday evening, after a complicated series of proposals, the Student Forum decided to cancel the election that was to Lt: ildd Tuesday, October 9th. The Forum ap- pointed Michael Bacco as Senior .Class Representative, \by virtue of the fact that he was the only candidate to submit a petition\ and decided- to charge the Committee on Committees with the respon- sibility for soliciting applicants for the position of Student Forum Secretary. The Com- mittee on Committees wiU make its appointment recomendation to the Forwn in a few weeks. and that \decisions are made for strange reasons.\ A \student may see an activity that he or she would like to pursue here, or it may be a ~ particularly nice day. When a student applies to schools which are all strong academically, what is different, or outstanding a bout tlilc school is important.\ The I .iberal Arts are ex- ceptional at Union, and com- plenwlilted by the Engineering and Computer Sciences, the l'Ollege has a great appeal, according to the Dean. He feels. that the large number of in- corning students this year is reflective of this. Dean Nourse mentioned that with \enrollments continuing to mushroom in Computer Science nationwide,'' there will have to be some discussion of either limiting the number of students or increasing the staffing. · ''Union is the strongest school I have had the privilege to work at,\ said the Dean, who has seventeen years experience in ,·ollege admissions at Clarkson, RIT, and WPI. He indicated, however, that there is a per- vasive inferi'ority cornplex at the college, something which c~n only' be redressed by \employ·ing the power of positive thinking. We are what we think we are,'' he concluded. New Dean KenAeth A. Nourse Homecoming: Get Into. It by BAR;B PLOTKIN Homecoming '79 will have a new twist this year. This is the first time in Union's history that the students' will be actively involved .with Homecoming we.ekend. Karen Wytrwal, Coordinator of Hom~coming activities and the Student · Homecoming ComiUittee, t-'OnSisting of Peter ''Space\ Conese, Barry Miller, Marc Snapper, and Sue Asher have been\ planning new activities since last January. These student-alumni ev.ents should l'ncourage student involvement with Homecoming weekend. New happenings are the student-alumni golf tour- nament, · a fh:.,eworks and skydiving_ display and square dance. The Concert Committee has planned the Karla Bonoff concert to concide with the Friday night of Homecoming weekend .. The Social Committee will provide a band for the Pub .this year and has made plans to incorporate Homecoming into their budge:t for next year to help pay for activities in con- junction with the Alumni rouncil. The field hockey team starts off Saturday Homecoming events with a game against Russell Sage at nine-thirty A.M. Union football suits 11p against Hobart at one=thirty in the af. ternoon. During half-time, the Stephen P. Brown Memorial Trophy will be presented to the fratemity that has displayed outstanding achievements in academics, athletics, and school services among other qualifications. Come to the game early and see an added surprise! -. UNION COLLEGE night, there will be Homecoming Square Dane• the Alumni Gym from e P.M. to ten P.M. After swingm your pad'ner round and round, walk up to Alexander Field and watch the Victery Celebration Fireworks at ten P.M. Sunday II1orning, there will be a \can't miss\ Hunt Breakfast at the Dutch Hollow Pub which offers an all you can eat buffet. Thursday, October 11th, has been set aside as Promotional Day for Homecoming. All af- ternoon in front of Carnegie Hall, there will be beer flowing as well as balloons flying and a chance to buy your Karla Bonoff tickets. For a complete listing of Homecoming ac- tivities, stop by the Alumni Office and pick up a brochure. If you want to get involved with Homecoming Weekend, contact Karen Wytrwal at the Alwnni Office or Peter Conese and Barry Miller at 372-6332. Become aware that this is YOUR weekend as well as the weekend for the visiting alumni. GET PSYCHED! The President's reception will take place late Saturday af- ternoon in Jackson's Gardens. All students are warmly en- couraged to attend and meet Union's new President, Dr. John S. Morris. The·Union Jazz Ens~mble will display their musical talents as W.;!ll. At eight-thirty P.M., the Men's and Women's Glee Club will per- form \A Night at the Pops\ in Memorial Chapel. Position Open Besides the traditional fraternity and sorority Homecoming parties Saturday Due to a lack of candidates for the position of Secretary the rlection scheduled for October !lth was cancelled and thu.s the positiqn of Secretary of the Student Forum is still open. In order· to remedy this situation a listy .. ·ill be placed in the student activities office (Mrs. Marra) and any member uf the .student body who \'>ishes to apply for the position of Secr~tary may sign the list. The appYlcants will then be interviewed by . the Com- mittee on Committees and their selection will be forwarded to the Formn for final approval. The Secretary is responsible for the recording and distribution of Student Fortim minutes. In addition, he-she is a member of the tax committee and the All· College Senate. The list will be made sometime soon thereafter. Any questions call Ken Plumb (382-9029) or Dave O'Connor (382-9582). The Way We Are-----------'---------- 0 <::> 0 \ 0 0 0 0 0 {) 0 () 0 () 0 <.) 0 0 ~ 0 0 ,, 0 0 C) 0 c 0 00 'U 0 0 ') a . 0 0 0 0 0 Q () 0 0 ~ 0 0 0 . - 6 0 () 0 ' TH FALL. ~-~~\ . -: __ Hy~

. ·• \· . f I l t ,, OONOORDIENSIS, October 11, 1979 Page 3 New Dean Welcomed by PAUL FEINSOT Kenneth A. Nourse, the new Dean of Admissions, disagrees with a common conception of Union as \a college of look-alike and tminteresting students.\ Dean Nourse recognizes that New York State is heavHy populated, and, as a con- sequence, Union can expect a \large influx of these students\ each year. He further related that d11e to the increasing cost of ~ending a student to a private , ollege, eompotmded with the finite resources in terms of financial aid, a student body of diverse socio-economic IJat·kground is unlikely. llowever, \Union has a couple nf overriding attractions,\ he ~tater!. The first is the I\elationship between the --twknts <lnd the faculty. The I lt·;~n has founrl, upon speakrng 11 ith manv facultv lllembers . trrd -;tudents, that ttiis is, indeed :t ~·onmlunity of people. Secondly, Dean Nourse is !lrtprl'ssed with the diver·sity of '·ourse offerings which this s!llall l'o!lege daims. He said that Union provides the student \ith tht• freedom \to control his ,,r her academil' destiny.\ Commenting on the im- pending void in the number of --t udents that will be applying to '·o!lege from this state, and ttlhers, the Dean told us that \there is no indication yet that I he crunch is upon us.\ He doesn't believe that Union will tw affel'tPd until around 1983, or :1 ftpr. There is one thing that bothers him mo.re than this prospect, and that is the in- flation. He regards its adverse impact upon higher education, and upon everyone, as the most frightening reality. When asked why students 11lt imately ehoose Union, Dean ~ourse replied that he sees prospective candidates all day long, most of whom have· ap- plied to six or seven colleges lll!any of them small colleges), Amendments . .. Continued from page 1 question. Finally, on Sunday evening, after a complicated series of proposals, the Student Forum decided to cancel the election that was tu ue itdd Tuesday, October 9th. The Forum ap- pointed Michael Bacco as Senior Class Representative, \by virtue of the fact that he was the onlv candidate to submit a petition\ and decided to charge the Committee on Cornlllittees with the respon- sibility for soliciting applicants for the position of Student Forum Secretary. The Com- tnittee on Committees will make its appointment recomendation to the Forum in a few weeks. and that \decisions are made for strange reasons.\ A \student may see an activity that he or she would like to pursue here, or it may be a - particNlarly nice day. WheN a student applies to sclwois which arc all ~trong academically, what is different, or outstanding about the school is hnportant.'' The I .iberal Arts are ex- eeptional at Union, and com- pkml'nted by the Engineering and Computer Sciences, the ~·o!lcge has a great appeal, according to the Dean. He feels. that the large number of in- coming students this year is reflective of this. Dean ;\fuurse IIll'ntinned that with \enrollments L·ontinuing to mushroom in Computer Science nationwide,'' there will have to he some discussion of either limiting the number of students or increasing the staffing. · ··Union is the strongest school I ll;.we had the privilege to work at,\ o.;aid the Dean, who has seventeen years experience in ~·ollegP admissions Cit Clarkson, HIT, and WPI. HI' indicated, however, that there is a per- vasive inferiority complex at the collegt>, something which t·an only bl· redressed by \employing the power of positive thinking. We are what we think we are,\ he concluded. Homecoming \'illBBIII'\ by BARB PLOTKIN • • New Dean Kenneth A. Nourse Homecoming '79 will have a new twist this year. This is the first time in Union's history that the students will be actively involved with Homecoming wPekend. KareR Wytrwal, Coordinator of Homecoming activities and the Student Homecoming Committee, consisting of Peter \Space\ C'onese, Barry Miller, Marc Snapper. and Sue Asher have been planning new activities sim·e last January. These student-alumni events should t•ncourage student involvement with Homecoming weekend. UNION COLLEGE night, there will be Homecomin~ Square Dane• the Alumni Gym from e P.\1. to ten P.\1. After swinglll your pad'ner round and round, walk up to Alexander Field and \\atch the Victon· Celebration Firl'works at ten· P.M. Sunday IIt!irning, there will be a ··L'an't miss\ Hunt Breakfast at the Dutch Hollow Pub which offers an all you can eat buffet. :'>lew happenings are the o.;tudent-alumni golf tour- nament, a fir.eworks and skydiving display and square dance. The Concert Committee has planned the Karla Bonoff l'nncert to concide with the I<'riday night of Homecoming \\eekend. The Social Committee will provide a band for the Pub this year and has made plans to incorporate Homecoming into their budget for next year to help pay for activities in con- junction with the Alumni Council. The field hockey team starts off Saturday Homecoming Pvents with a game against Russell Sage at nine-thirty A.M. Union football suits up against Hobart at one-thirty in the af- ternoon. During half-time, the Stephen P. Brown Memorial Trophy will be presented to the fraternity that has displayed outstanding achievements in academics, athletics, and school services among other qualifieations. Come to the game early and see an added surprise! The President's reception will take place late Saturday af- ternoon in Jackson's Gardens. All students are warmly en- couraged to attend and meet Union's new President, Dr. .JohnS. Morris. The Union Jazz Ens~'mble will display their musical talents as wdl. At t>ight-thirty P.M., the Men's and Women's Glee Club will per- form \A Night at the Pops\ in Mt>morial Chapel. Besides the tradit10nal fraternity and sorority Homecoming parties Saturday Thursdav, October 11th, has been set a·side as Promotional Day for Homecoming. All af- ternoon in front of Carnegie HalL there will be beer flowing as well as balloons flying and a t'hance to buy your Karla Bonoff tickets. For a complete listing of Homecoming ac- tivities, stop by the Alumni Office and pick up a brochure. If you want to get involved with Homecoming Weekend, contact Karen Wytrwal at the Alumni Office or Peter Conese and Barn: Miller at 372-6332. Become \aware that this is YOUR weekend as well as the weekend for the visiting ahunni. GET PSYCHED! Position Open Due to a lack of candidates for the position of Secretary the L'lel'tion scheduled for October !)th was cancelled and thus the posit io,n of Secretary of the Student Fttrum is still open. In nrder to remedy this situation a list will be placed in the student activities office (Mrs. Marra) and <lny member of the student body who wishes to apply for the position of Secretary may sign the list. The app?,cants will then be interviewed by the Com- mittee on Committees and their seleetion will be forwarded to the Forum for final approval. The Secretary is responsible for the recording and distribution of Student Forwn minutes. In add it ion, he-she is a member of the tax committee and the All- College Senate. The list will bt.' made sometime soon thereafter. Any questions call Ken Plumb (382-9029) or Dave 0' Connor ( 382-9582) . The Way We Are---.----------------- <:> <o 0 \ 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 <.) 0 a 0 \) ~ 0 0 ,, 0 u 0 0 D 00 u 0 0 0 ') 0 . 0 0 0 ~ 0 0 c 0 0 0 0 • 0 0 FALL. ~0:~\ ~ _:: ~t-!y

Page 4 Input Invited As a result of the recent dis·cussions concerning the iss1,1e of college governance, the Student Forum has decided that an evaluation of student government is also necessary. [n response to this situation, a F'orwn. com:tnittee on gover~ nance has been created, .con~ sisting of the following 5 · metnbers of the Student l•'orum: Ken Plwnb(President), Andrew Wtsoff (Senior .Class Rep.), V.ernon Wetmore (Junior Class Rep.), Will Lloyd (Sophomore Class . Rep.) and Betsy Modest (Sophomore Class Rep. ) . aetivity fees to those clubs and organizations, the relationship between Student Government and the proposed new College Gove.mance System, and an exarnimtion of the past function and l'esponsibilities of Student Forunvconm1ittees. . Professors MarkiewiCz and Greenberg, respectively. However, the Forwn believes that .input from students NOT on the Forwn would also be very beneficial to the committee. For this reason, an open invitation is be in~ extended to aU members of the student body who wish to contribute to this committee. Il1c charge· to this committee consists · of the following: an It is anticipated that this comn1ittee will meet for about 5-8 hours per week and submit a repor.t before the Thanksgiving .Reeess. Due to the present size .of the collJmittee, no more than 3 non-Forum members will be selected, and if need he, in· terviews will be conducted by. the Conunittee on Committees for the· 3 positions. Any member ·of the stLtdent body may apply for the con1mittee. If you wish tQ apply please sign the ap• propriate list in the Student Activities offic~. If you do not or New Profs. 'Psyched' · c~nnot serve on the committee, but still' wish to contribute, please d<mot hesitate to contact any of the Student Forum members on the committee and give then1 your thoughts and opinions. In addition, the comnlittee .plans to conduct open IHeetings in order to give students a better opportunity to provide inpllt. If you have any questions please contact Ken Plumb ( 382~9029), BoK 2065. by DANNY WOJNILOWER If you have had any reason to enter the psychology building this fall, you probably have run into at least one-if not two-new faces among the professors. The professors, Dr. Seth Greenberg and Dr. Bobbi Markiewicz, will surely aid in the expansion of the Union College psychology department as they both plan to add a variety of courses to the current curriculum. Greenberg, an associate professor of psychology, comes to Union after seven years of teaching at Ohio University (Lancaster branch) where he also chaired the Social Science division. Sacrificing tenure for the small, more personalized atmosphere at Union, Green- berg, to this point, is happy with his n~w positidn. Greenberg received his Ph. D. in experimental psychology from the human performance center at Ohio State. His research career began while at Ohio State and can currently be seen as twofold: 1) working on problems dealing with com~ peting mental processes, ie. how one process inhibits another, and 2) working on word recognition and the basic reading processes. In the future, Greenberg would like to focus more upon the develop- mental aspects of reading and word recognition, thereby developing more efficient reading techniques. Yet, Greenberg is quick to note that ''I'm a firm believer in the fact before one can apply in~ formation, one should research the field fully.\ ' Dr. Greenberg, who describes himself as \a normal, average guy,\ spoke of his feelings for Union. \Pm very excited about the many students who have strong research proposals. The students seem interested in working independently, yet they also desire to speak to the professors. This I really ,'njoy.\ Furthermore, Greenberg feels that in class the students are very helpful, asking and an- swering questions willingly. A firm believer in giving as Inuch attention to students as possible, Greenberg is currently teaching Introductory and statistical psychology. This winter he plans to teach a course dealing with cognition, its emphasis being on memory and thinking. Greenberg also plans to teach a course on the psychology of reading in the spring. This will be an ex~ peflffientally· oriented course dealing with the basic processes involved in reading. Markiewicz, currently a visiting assistant professor of psychology, taught the brain and behavior course at Union last spring. Prior to Union, she worked just one year, at the College of St. Rose, after receiving her Ph. D. in physiological psychology from Rutgers in 1973. The reason for tnis is simple - Dr. Markiewicz has spent the last five years at home with her three children. \I enjoyed centering my life around my children and was even president of their nursery school\ states Markiewicz with a smile \but I always wanted to return to teaching.\ Dr. Markiewicz's research has always focused upon the physiological basis of memory. Operating with rats, she originally injected protein synthesis inhibitors in the brain in order..to study its effect upon behavior. Basically, she has discovered that very few things can .alter the storage of memory, and that it is the retrieval process which is disrupted. Markiewicz is currently applying for grants in order to continue her research. Markiewicz is currently teaching- introductory psychology..,and introduction to psychobiology. This winter, she will again teach the course in psychobiology as well as a course dealing with the learning processes. Then, in the spring, she will teach the brain and behavior course just as she did last year. Markiewicz enjoys teaching at Union very much. \This is a good campus and a good set ofstudents. I especially like the enthusiasm of the fresh~ men I have encountered. I'm impressed with their abilities and their curiosity. It's always nice to see students who like to think.\ Outside academics, Green~ berg and Markiewicz consider themselves to be outdoor in~ REGISTRATION Of MOTOR VEHICLES Al THE SEC~RITY AND SAFETY DEPARTMENT OFFICE All vehicles which are brought on campus must be registered.· Types Of Registrations Visitor Temporary Student Faculty-Staff . Commuter Handicapped Free Free $3.00 $3.00 ~. $3.00 Inquire You can register now or We'll contact you later SAVE $50 DON'T WAIT UNTIL WE CONTACT YOU $50 Fine for unregistered vehicles begins October 18th,.l979 For Further lnformatioh Call 370-6190 dividuals. They both try to make·some type of camping trip each year. On the inside; Greenberg is an avid chess player and Markiewicz took the modern dance class offered at Union last spring which she highly recommends to all. evaluation of . the Student Constitution and the By-Laws of the .Student Forum, a study of the relatienship between Student Government and student clups and organizations, an examination of the allocation of student HEWARD REWARD R.EWAR D \ FOR :DEFAMATION OF CHARACTER, PRACTICING ILLE.GAL ABORTIONS, ANo:ACCESSORY TO MURDER. THIS MAN MAY BE SEEN ON HE WAS LAST SEEN CAMPUSm IN THE VICINITY NOTT MEMORIAL. OF THE DANGEROUS! DO NOT APPROACH! IF YOU KNO'W. HIS WHEREABOUT·s CONTACT: 370· 6158 I \ 80'~ disc Pia Re~ nes Lou the fon Mill intr rne1 Tot Hey M tro< that was ship and Mor disc deci \rt1c: task deci Mrs pro< \leG~ proc 1. yom 2. port 3. a pr Mrs. trod and ('har wan1 Pr Biolc men men ··lari he v gam Prof prep ofwl mine pane valw fami thesE aske, nrde1 kind to s~ impo said that' valuE then some you e a lot this' furth of q1 consE OCCUJ do yc - ' . I -· 5 Don Not1

OONOORDIENSIS, October 11, 19\19 Page 5 ----~--~------~----------------~-------------------- Panel Discussion Held by PAUL I<,EINSOT \Making a Choice for the 80's\ was the title of a panel- discussion, sponsored by the Placement and Career Resources offices, l~st Wed· nesday (Oct: 3} in Strauss Lounge. For those who ·missed the high-spirited and in- formative session, Yungwha Min led off the discussion by introducing the five faeulty rnember ·panel: Professors Tobiesson, Briton, Nichols, Reynolds, and Ludwig. Mrs. Min made some in,. troductory remarks relatin·g that the purpose of the ~rogram was to' \focus on the relation· ship between liberal education <!nd the working world.\ Moreover, she directed the discourse to the· subj.ect of decision-making. She said that \rt1aking a decision is a difficult task, and making a personal decision is even more difficult.'' Mrs. Min outlined a three step process which students should ~''learn as a part of the education process at Union: \ 1. Self-evaluation: analyze your abilities and achievements 2. Explore all of your op- portunities \ . 3. Make the decision-employ a practical strategy Mrs. Min concluded her in· troduction by adding that \time and energy will increase your ( ·hances of getting what you want.\ Why do you want to be in business?\ He affirmed that there are certain common values which correlate with any direction you choose. Professor Susan Briton of Psychology related that in a decision-making process \you should be responsive to your- self. Don't be influe_nced by others.\ She added that \in this culture we tend to make ·you rather passive,\ and she per- ceives that too many people are waiting for \magic helpers\ to come along. Professor Briton contends that ''deeision~making makes you rather responsible.\ She presented the group of students wi'th agpther ex- periment, one which spe con· fessed comes out of her Introduction to Psychology dass. She has everyone stare at their thumbs, and then focus on one, in order to prove that \when you focus on anything you lose perspective-if you don't compare and contrast things you start to . distort.\ Professor Briton concluded her remarks by saying that \per- spective is gained by moving ar;ound\ and regarding the whole. Professor of Political Science, Byron Nichols, briefly made two points. He asked that everyone consider the job as a remunerative activity, in other words, \doing for more than making money.\ He added tha~ the process of choosing values is most significant in this in· stance. Secondly, Professor Nichole reminded us that the 'roJe of-a Liberal Arts education is to provide us with serious kinds of clues about ourselves and about the world. \Liberal Learning is much more than two courses in categories \A\ through \F fie said, \It is an intelligent strategy which was develQped in order to maximize your knowledge, and in- tellectual curiosity.\ Professors Jan Ludwig and Bruce Reynolds .spoke of the role of a Liberal Arts education. Reynolds described the 80's as a period of rapid socia~ change, and he indicated that the people with \the ability to cope witfl change and manage change will be scarce and will commaHd a high price. Ludwig began by asking the question: for what specific career does a Liberal Arts education prepare you for?\ Answer: \None.\ He continued to say that this diversified course of study will prepare you for any career you choose. ·The myth, · he con- cluded, ''that it is useless to major in Philosophy or English is a crock. If you believe it then you haven't been looking at what people are doing with these majors.\ On Friday, October 19, the Placement and Career Resources and Alumni Affairs are sponsoring a homecoming Alumni Career Panel at 3:00 p.m. I see page 8.) \ . . Mrs. Yungha Min John S. Morris. • • Continued from page 1 president South. on Terrace Lane Card-iff in philosophy, :Worris served as a minister of the Vernon and Vernon Center, ~.Y., Presbyterian Churches from 1954 to i957 while pursuing graduate work at Colgate. :\native of Wales, Morris took his B.A. in 1950 from the University College of South Wales and ~lonmouthshire at Professor Peter Tobiesson of Biology was the first panel member to speak. He com- menced his inquiry on values darification by announcing that he was going to play a little game with . his audience. Professor Tobiesson had come prepared with his own definition of what a value is (this caused minor controversy among the panel), and a list of common values, such as health, wealth, family, friends, etc. He passed these among the students and asked each to choose five values nrdering them one to five. This kind of exercise can enable you to set a priority for the very important aspects of your life, said Tobiesson. He remarked that \if you chose health as the value most important to yl()u, then you might ask yourself some pertinent questions: do you eat junk food? do you drink a lot?\lf so, how important is this value? Professor Tobiesson further stated that this process of questioning yourself is as consequential to one's future occupation. \Ask yourself: Why do you want to be a lawyer? News Director Chosen educati~n, Greek and Hebrew, and spent al'l additional year in honors study in philosophy. In 1953 he was granted his B.A. from the University of Cam- bridge, where he received his M.A. in 1957. He took an M.A. in philosophy from Colgate University in 1957 and his Ph.D. in philosophy of religion from Columbia University in 1961. His dissertation was in the area of religious epistemology. Morris became a full-time instructor in philosophy and religion at Colgate in 1960 and was promoted to assistant professor in 1963, to associate professor in 1966, and to professor in 1970. In 1971, he was named Colgate Professor of the Humanities. fast free ... delivery 372-4441 ' 'I(' 1 1 ' I • • by SUE BARNHART . If your image of a news director conjures up visions of Perry White barking orders at Lois Lane and Clark Kent, you should meet Jim McGuire. As Union's new news director Mr. McGuire will break any ster~otypic images that one may hold about journalists. The friendly and likable McGuire is responsible f-0r the collection and editing of stories for the college administration's official paper, the Chronicle. · A native of Scotia, McGuire graduated from Bates College and held various odd jobs in the area until a free-lance article about skiing landed him a job with the Schenectady Gazette. He worked there for three years prior to coming to Union in ' August. McGuire describes his work ·~ ---------------------- 50~' off any 16'' • p~zza Good thru Sunday~. October 14, 1979 Domino's Pizza· Nott Terrace Schenectady, NY 372·4441 with the Gazette as an \education in itself\. He believes his work with the newspaper. was a hwnbling experience. Entering the field believing he had at least a working knowledge of the people and events he was assigned to cover he quickly became aware of the void in his knowledge concerning com- munity affairs. The job, he believes, helped to make him more aware of community workings. Why then did Mr. McGuire leave his job with the Gazette and come to Union? A primary reason seems to have dealt with the attitudes of those about which he reported. In the general community in which he reported he many times en- countered hostility from those he was writing about. He also found that many of the stories he reported on were of a negative nature and didn't add anything of a positive nature to the lives of his audience. At Union, he has found the situation to be quite to the contrary. Union, McGuire believes, is a place where everyone seems to be excelling and is headed in a positive direction. The general campus Gommunity is positive in their attitudes about their work and it is a very friendly environment in which to· work Married last December, Jim makes his home in a log cabin in the Southern Adirondacks. At this location he is able to pursue his avid interest in trout fishing. The location of his log cabin grants him a lifestyle quite different from the busy life of a reporter. · ~@,Jn~ ©~em@ ~ ~ / versatile vested cordurov Count on corduroy for tall Lead1ng the pack 1s th1s 3-way w1nner that gets 1t all together as a vested su1t or goes 1n separate d1rect1ons as a velvet~ vest. handsome slacks tor sweoter and sport sh 1rt combos. and a non-stop Jacket noted for 1ts new softer shoulrJer look All cotton cordure>v 1n ante- @ lope or brown Reg. $95. .SALE $69 .SO ir4t ~quire ~qnp 420 State St. ·377-3061 Open Thurs till 9 In 1965 he assumed the post of assistant dean of the faculty. His duties included serving as. research associate on a trustee- alumni-faculty committee studying coeducatien at Colgate. He later became chairman of the committee, whose report formed the basis of the Colgate trustees' decision to introduce coeducation. From 1967 to 1968 he was acting director of the Division of the Humanities, and was director from 1970 to 1972. He became director of the · Division of Univei\sity Studies in 1972, and in the next year was named provost and dean of the faculty, the chief academic officer. He served as acting president in 1977 while a search for a per- manent president was un- derway. Morris was Lever- hulme Visiting Professor at Exeter University, England, in 1968-69, and since 1977 has served as an Associate of the Columbia University Seminar on Higher Education. In 1978 he won a Distinguished Service Award from the Colgate Alumni Corporation. He has been chairman of a number of committees at Colgate, in- cluding the · Foundations Committee for the university's $30 million fund-raising cam- paign. He has published a number of works on religion and theology, and \The Place of the Humanities in the Liberal Arts\ was published in Liberal Education in March, 1978. He is a member of · the American Philosophical Association, American Theology, American . Association for Higher Education, and American Conference of Academic Deans. Morris served with the Royal Air Force during World War II in England, Northern Ireland, .. , India, Singapore and Hong Kong.

Page 6 OONOORDIENSIS, October 11J 19\19 culture Mitch's Maze -art6· Beninati Joins Nott hy !Y11+c.ne II Chess The Union College. Arts Department is proud to have Mr. Daro Beninati as its new Technical Director of the Nott Memorial Theatre. If Daro's magnetic personality hasn't already drawn you through the doors of the Nott Memorial Theatre (please use rear door). and into his office to speak with him, it must be because you've been sleeping throughout the first three weeks of this term. Well, friends, if's time to wake up and look areund you and realize how interesting seme of the personalities we -have here on campus can be. Last week I, myself, was magnetically drawn into the Nott Memorial Theatre (by a cast party, but nonetheless, I was drawn in), and r found myself speaking With Daro. I found the man .extremely fascinating. How fascinating can a Tech Director be? I'll tell vou: Bittleman Art In Moscow · Daro invited rne over to his house for dinner the next day. So, armed with m:y trusty little notebook, I walked down to his \Cambridge Lpndscape, Summer '78,\ a 5' x 6' pastel by Arnold Bittleman, associate professor of art has been selected to hang in the U.S. Embassy in Moscow. On loan for the next two years, through the State Department's Art in Embassies Program, the painting was selected as part of an exhibit depicting the American scene. It was spotted in the Genesis Gallery on E. 57th Street, New York City, by Mrs. Thomas Watson, wife of the new U.S. Ambassador to the Soviet James Galway Irish Flutist James Galway returns to the scene of last year's triumph when he opens the Schenectady Museum- Union College Concert series at 8 p.m. October 17 in Memorial Chapel. Galway inaugurates this year's series, \An International Festival of Chamber Music VIII,\ with the accompaniment of Marisa Robles, harp, and Milton Thomas, viola. They will perform . Vivaldi, J.S. Bach, Mozart 1 C.P.E. Bach, Debussy,· and lighter pieces to be introduced by the artists. Galway's previously an- nounced tour with Solisti di Zagreb was cancelled. Succeeding concerts will feature Barry Tuckwell, the world's leading French horn virtuoso, at 8 p.m. Nov. 11; · Syntagma Musicum, presenting vocal and instrumental music of the Renaissance at 8 p.m. Nov. 26; Flutist Michel Debost with the Toulouse Chamber Orchestra at 8 p.m. Jan. 15; the Melos String Quartet of Stut- tgart at 8 p.m. March 2; and the Philip Jones Brass Ensemble at 8 p.m. April 7. These en- sembles are all making their Capital District debuts. Season subscriptions and single tickets a:re available through the Schenectady Museum, Nott Terrace Heights, (telephone 382-7890.) Single tickets are also available from the Community Box Office, Colonie Center (telephone 458- 7530), and Empire State Plaza (telephone 473-8~22), and at the door at 7 p.m., prior to the concert. The James Galway Concert is expected to be sold out in advance. Free tickets for Union Community - contact Irma Hamilton, Arts Dept. Union. Bittleman 's work hangs in the permanent collections of America's top institutions in- cluding the Museum of Medern ART, THE Whitney, Brooklyn, Rose and Fogg Museums, the Boston Museum of Fine Arts, the Munson-William-Proctor Institute, and the Addison Gallery. A graduate of Yale, with both a bachelors and a masters degree in fine arts, Bittleman has presented numerous one- man exhibits and participated in group shows in cities and institutions acorss the country. Reviews of his work have ap- peared in top art journals and the New York Times Sunday edition. He is listed in Who's Who in American Art. Bittleman, who painted this landscape at his Cambridge, N.Y., studio, described the work as an entrance to a forest. He said it contains a \very crisp, upstate New York, Fourth of July\ atmosphere. Harriet Lebish, Director of the Genesis Gallery, said that the Art in Embassies program has organized, what it believes to be, an exhibit of the finest landscape painting by con- temporary American artists. Lebish said the painting is e:x:tremely detailed, each stroke counting in the overall effect, giving the viewer the feeling of \walking into a sunny but mysterious glade with a lover.\ What~s Going On! for the week of October 11-17 Thursday, Oct.l7 Informal Senior Pictures being ·taken from 9-4 in Jackson's Gardens. Friday, Oct. 18 Informal Senior Pictures being taken from · 9-4 in Jackson's Gardens. J.V. Football vs. Williams, 3:00. Women's Ten.nis vs. Oneonta, 3:00. Union Presidential Inauguration. Saturday, Oct.l9 Union Presidential Inauguration Conference: Passive Solar Design, 8:15 in SS016, Grad. Studies. Sunday, Oct. 14 Graduate Studies ~ogram presents-Conference: Passive Solar Design, 9 a.m.-2 p.m. in SS016. Tuesday, Oct. 16 Women's Volleyball vs. Utica, Albany, 7:00. Wednesday,.Oct.17 Women's Tennis vs. North Adams, 3:15 Field Hockey vs. North Adams, 3:15. J.V. Soccer vs. Albany, 3:30. Museum College Concert Series presents James Galway. SALE!!! $5 FOR 1980 YEARBOOK, ONE DAY ONLY! OCTOBER 15 · · MONDAY CARNEGIE HALL See Mrs. Morra or a member of yearbook s1aff. Thereafter, $8 for underclassmen $5 for seniors little White house on Avenu~ B. When I arrived, Daro was preparing dinner with all the finesse ora French chef, and as he cooked (did I ever say I was ~gainst wornen's lib? If I did, I take it back) he told me some pretty interesting things about what he has done~so far with his life. Daro is originally from the Saratoga Springs area (yes, he's probably dated Skiddies, but that happens to even the best of Union College men), and attended SUNY at New Paltz as an undergraduate, studying to become a veterinarian, H:e soon changed his major to theater after realizing that he just loved animals too much to practice medicine on them. Soon after his graduation from New Paltz. Daro worked Summer Stock in Fishkill, New York, and later moved to Stratford, California, where he lived and worked for fourteen years. For ten of those fourteen years on the West Coast, Daro worked for the San Francisco Opera p;linting scenery as a member of the Scenic Arts Union. He also worked in the same capacity with ABC studios for about four years. As Oaro pulled out his wok and started to chop up the vegetables, he told me that he taught himselUo cook and when he was bored working in theater, he worked as a chef (and not at \Joe's Bar and Grill,\ either). He worked mainly at French restaurants such as \Cardi's\ in San Fvancisco where he got a national write-up from a well- known food critic. The article, entitled That Moment of Fantasy, praised Daro'S per- 'fectly steamed' vegetables, and increased his popularity as a chef. People in the restaurant business started calling him. Other restaurants Daro head- cheffed for include \La Berge\ in Eugene, Oregon, \The Tangerine,\ in Fort Lauder- dale, Florida, and \The King's Tavern\ which is locatedt directly across from the Saratoga Raceway. He has also worked in Canada and in Mexico. Of course, it isn't enough that Daro is a Theatrical Technician and a chef. A person just can't say he has lived until he published a written work. Yes, Daro is a writer and a playw.right ( aL course!). Daro has written fourteen plays--four · of•which have been produced by the Brooklyn Street Theatre Company. He has also had material of his accepted .as episodes on a well-known TV series,. and 100,000 copies of a technical and scientific hook about the comet Kohoutek sold for him. · Presently, he has a couple of interesting projects in mind. Daro is planning on collaborating on a musical with Union College student, Gary Glauber. The show will be based on the life of Charboneau (who, American History tells us, was the half-breed Indian who played a big part in the Lewis and Clark expedition). Another project Daro has in mind is to ·adapt the novel TIM into a play. TIM--written by the .sa;me woman who wrote The Thorn- birds--is the heartwarming story of an old spinster who falls in love with a mentally retarded boy of 25. He has Union· College Visiting Professor Leila Blake and Union . College graduate · Barry Symonds in mind as the leads. Hopefu1ly, this project will be underway by Spri~g Term, 1980. As the evening wore on and ! found myself gorging myself on a d8licious dinner of pepper steak with onions and ouzo with all sorts of wonderful chinese vegetables in it (West College diners-eat your hearts out!), and experiencing \That Moment of Fantasy\ a la Beninati, Daro told me an in- teresting story ·about his wedding. Mr. and Mrs. Beninati outdid Tiny Tim-:- They \eloped\ in a sheep barn amid a ·menagerie of sheep, rams, and lambs. Daro said that the '·horus of 150 animals was bleating· all through his simple little ceremony, until the justice said, \If there is anyone here who knows of any reason why this couple should not be joined in holy matrimony, let him speak now or forever hold his peace.\ The sheep were silent .. By now, you should be ab- solutely dying to go to the Nott to sign up to work on this term's show with such an interesting man as Daro. (Remember to use the back door.) I'll see you there. - art Sl byf Slow 1 latest efl from Bo reason it·· for n1e judgemer after mar is becau: tries to b€ just doesr way fort The firs musical b Dylan ha orchestra Street J,eJ Budokan j his old an variety reg a rdlel conrplemE r H~1w can reggae ve Twice f' ··Rudokan features· band built Pick W Knopfler sound of ti one stickir and blues seness o plements instead of] it has flavorles~ which is ~ Dylan wh(] take reco disappoint hand is tl col. ACRC 1 Anger (2 8 Began ag; 15 Ubiquito1 16 Gonnandi: 17 Division 18 Seaso,.ed 19 Classifi~ 20 Route to 22 \There - song 23- adj1 24 Robert o 25 Part of , 28 Guinness 30 Was hi ngt. short 32 Cogni zan 33 Sweet dr 34 In a mes 36 Secular 38 As old a 39 Boistero 43 Some MIT for shor 46 Cousteau 47 .Kin of G 48 Awaiting 50 Frighten 52 Horace o

- CONOORDIENSIS, October 11, 1979 Page 7 art~ culture Slow Dyla-n Fading Would You like to Help· Organize A ROCK AND ROLL DANCE PARTY? by ROBERT BLAKE Slow Train Coming, is the latest effort- of new material from Bob Dylan. For some reason it has been very difficult · for me to come up with a judgement on this album.-and after many listenings I feel this is because the ~:}bum really tries to be good, but somehow it just doesn't succeed. I feel this way for many reasons. The first matter of note is the musical backing on this album. Dylan has given up the large orchestrated band he used on Street J,cgal and Dylan Live at Budokan in which ne plundered his old and new tunes in a wide variety of musical styles- regardless of whether they complemented the song or: not. 1 How can one forget the absurd reggae version of \Don't Think Twice It's Alright\ from \Budokan.\) This new album features a .smaller, sparser band built around the nucleus of Pick Withers and Mark Knopfler of Dire Straits. The sound of the -band is a laid-back one sticking mainly to soft rock and blues. Although the spaF- seness of this band com- plements these compositions, instead of having a folkie sound, it has a very polished, flavol'less, commercial feel, which is out of character for Dylan who is known for his one take recording method. Also disappointing abo1,1t_the backing hand is the playing of Mark Knopfler who does not play one interesting guitar line throughout the album. Another disappointment is the ·music itself. Although Dylan is mostly knewn for his lyrks, he has also done some incredibly innovative arrangements, such as on ''Rainy Day Women Nos. 1:2 & 35\ or \Ballad of a Thin Man.\ For the most part the songs on this album are very weak on tnelody, and they eonsist of very short, very weak musical phrases which repeat over and over until you can Sl'ream. Now we get to the lyrics. This album makes great strides to be socially relevant, as epitomized by \When You Gonna Wake Up\ and the title track. There are flaws in these tunes that keep them from being in the same league as Dylan's best social protest songs. First is their very topical references, such as the mention of Kissenger and the oil crisis in ·'Slow Train Coming.\ One thing that always. separated Dylan from his contemporaries 'of the sixties was that he never used topical contemporary hnagery. That is why Dylan's old material stiU sounds fresh today, as opposed to an artist such as Phil Ochs whose music died- with his times. There is nothing innovative about these songs. The beauty of songs like \A Hard Rain's a Gonna Fall\ or \Blowing in the Wind\ is that they ·are as collegiate crossword ACROSS 1 Anger (2 wds.) 8 Began aga f n 15 Ubiquitous (2 wds.) 16 Gonnandi zed 17 Division in music 18 Sea so11ed pro 19 Classifieds 20 Route to success 22 \There -,\ 1940 song 23 ---- adjudicata 24 Robert of song 25 Part of a sonnet- 28 Guinness, et al. 30 ·Washington job, for short 32 Cognizant 33 Sweet drink 34 In a mess 36 Secular 38 As old as the hills 39 Boisterous 43 Some MIT graduates, for short 46 Cousteau's milieu 47 .Kin of G.R.E. 48 Awaiting (2 wds.) 50 Frightens 52 Horace or Thomas 54 To's partner 11 Actress Mary - 55 Many bills 12 Kind of bliss 56 Eye parts 13 Kin to a whatnot 58 Neighbor of Argen- 14 Signified· tina {abbr.) 21 Sandra and Ruby 59 Nonpaying tenant, 26 Overhang potentially 27 Ann-Margret's 62 Mawkishly senti- birthplace mental 29 Last place 64 Family derivation 31 Illusory 65 Supposed 34 5~9, to Cato 66 Like some beer 35 Type 'of bagel 67 Post office · 37 \- Mi sbehavin'\ inventory 39 New Mexico city 40 Marc Antony's DOWN wife 41 Kind of indicator 1 \Cleopatra Jones~. 42 \- Said,\ ·Neil star, - Dobson Diamond sang 2 - Cite 44 Shine bril-liantly 3 Placed in a 45 More contrite particular group 48 Injury's complement 4 Boxing punches 49 Something a doctor 5 Rudimentary seeds makes- 6 Savage 51 Series of mis- 7 Nine Danish kings fortLines 8 Satisfy one's 53 Fraser. of tennis wanderlust 57 Surgeon Walter ---- 9 Between Tinker and 60 So-so grade Chance-- 61 Prepare to feather· 10 Pr~pared 6~ Motown (abbr.) timeless and powerful today as when they were first written. r predict in a few years the socially relevant songs on Slow Train Coming will seem dated, while the classic old Dylan .social protest songs will still retain their longevity and relevance. Finally, one must consider the whole religious theme which pervades all the songs to varying degrees on. this album. This is hardly the first time Dylan has dealt with religion as a center or un.derlying theme in his music. If we compare this album to some of his past works: that dealt heavily with religion, such as the John Wesley Har- ding album, Slow Train Coming just doesn't stand up. The difference on this album is.Jhat instead of dealing with religion, Dylan has gone religious. He really has nothing profound to say about religion here, and he harps on the subject so much that it tends to detract from the other themes in these songs. Furthermore, I just don't know if I can swallow hook, line and sinker that Robert Zim- n 1erman, the- shrewd vag a bond wh0 knew h0w to hustle and get ahead in the music business as well as he knew how to write songs, . has, in a matter of months, turned around, .saw the light of Jesus, and decided to wallow in the bliss of Christianity. All this is not to say that this is an altogether bad album. On the whole, it is very uneven, with plenty of striking lyrics to match the banal ones: Dylan's - fine wry sense of humor also emerges on several of these tunes. If anything; this album shows that Dylan still has the potential to write great songs, but he has not reached that potential on this album. Hopefully on his next effort he will. Coffeehouse Presents. • • • Are you looking for a good way to help forget the frustrations and anxieties of the hectic week? If you are, you might be interested in cof- feehou~e. It's a great way to enjoy some terrific music, delicious donuts, exotic coffees and teas from all over the world and a relaxing atmosphere. This Friday at 8:30 p.m. in the Cabaret Room, Coffeehouse proudly presents \The Fiction Brothers'?-a talented team of two who play a combination of traditional folk and blue grass. They have one album out and another will be released within the n~xt two weeks. Using a variety of instruments to ac- company their voices, including the guitar, banjo, and the mandolin, they will most cer- tainly provide us with some superb tmtertainment. Then come to the meeting of .La Societe' F.l. N. on Wednesday, October 17, at 7:30 p.m. in the Dutch Hollow Pub. EVERYBODY WELCOME'!! For More Information Ca'll: George Von Klan 377-9227 Steve Monosson 382-8973 ;Poss·ible Life by IAN KUGNEA TO \Do what you want, 'cause this is a new art school!\ howled Paul Weller of the rock group The Jam on their debut album in 1977, but somehow his in vocation to self-express wasn't heard and eventually almost forgotten. Some people in the large city schools got the message; but peop_le there were always into free expression, so the advent of the new wave of rock music merely provided an added charge to an already culturally explosive scene. For a long while it seemed that this excited lifestyle would never touch the less urban areas of the country. But now, thanks to a couple of motivated individuals who are tired of just complaining about the tediously archaic Union College social life, things just might start happening. George. Von Klan and Steve Monosson have begun an informal organization (La Societe F. I.N. l which claims as its sole purpose to promote and execute a reck and roll dance party sometime in mid-November. The difference between the proposed party and most others can be best expressed in the reaction to past events of its type, such as the Delta Chi Punk Rock Party, the impromptu dance bash at Bronner House and last week's cocktail partv at Kappa Alpha. At all of these parties, people truly enjoyed themselves, with the only un- settling note being that not enough people attended. KA attracted a large crowd; but I was informed by one of the brothers that many people, freshmen in particular, were turned off thinking that it was a closed party. La Societe F.I.N. wishes to break down any such trepidation barrier. The party to be thrown is intended for all who wish to find out what the people who were at D. Chi, Bronner, and KA are still raving a bout. But before the party can be thrown, George and Steve are going to need a good deal of help in making all the necessary arrangements. Next Wednesday night October 17th at 7:30, there will be an open meeting of L.S.F.I.N. Anyone who is in- terested in upgrading the social climate of this school, and-or the vital and energetic rock and roll of the moment (you know what I am talking about, it is just that I hate all these stigma- carrying names) is URGED to attend. Please do come; because the boys would like to see the party come off and they can not do it all by themselves. Anyone wishing further in- formation can call George Von Klan at 377-9229 or Steve Monosson at 3S2-8973. Around Campus • • • Continued from page 10. E;,ugineering. Persons wishing to contribute to these evaluations should submit statements to the chairpeople of the commjttees. 1n order, respective to the Professors, the chairpeople are: Prof. Charles Tidmarch (Political Science), Prof. Frederick Hartwig (Political Science), Prof. E.F. Gillette (Mathematics), and .Prof. Helen Ouellette ( Classics) . A third-year evaluation of Assistant Prof. William Hen- dricks is being conducted by the Dept. of Classics. Persons wishing to contribute to the evaluation should submit statements by Oct. 22 to Prof. Helen Ouellette, Chairman, Dept. of Classics. Starring Burt Reynolds \A MagRifice.nt Visual Experience And An Assault On The Senses\ -Jay Cocks,TIME MAGAZINE Tuesday, Oct. 16 at 9:00 & 11:00

Page 8 CONOORDIENSIS,. October 11, 19\19 classifiebs PLACEMENT A representative from Princeton University, Woodrow Wilson School of Public and International Affairs, will be on campus on Thursday, October 18. He will hold a group meeting in Placem~t at 3:30 on October 18. If you would like to talk with the rep11esentative, please come in and sign up. Peace Corps-VISTA will hold a GENERAL. INFORMATION MEETING on Monday, October 19 in Strauss Lounge at 4 p.m. If you are· interested, please plan to attend. We have information and applications in the Placement office. Please check Placement for Summer Opportuniti:es and Internships. The following is the schedule for the administration of the Federal Government's Professional and Administrative Career . Exa~ination ( PACE)-Filing Period: January 2, 1980- Februar_:y 15, 198'0;· Testing Period: March 1, 1980-April 26 1980. ' Peace Corps-VISTA will hold • a general informatien meeting . in Strauss Lounge en Monday, October 29, 1979 fron1 4-5:30 p.m. B:UlLETIN BOARD Schaffer Library, Fall Book Sale on October 16 & 17 Tuesday and Wednesday. Book sale opens at 9:30 a.m. in Schaffer Library lobby. Hard- backs, 50 cents; paperbacks, 25 cents. Flu Vaccine Although a mild influenza seas?n is ~xpected this year, flu vaccme 1s recommended for \HIGH RISK\ individuals: ATTENTION: FRESHMEN, SOPHOMORES JUNIORS & SENIORS ' The ~lacement & Career Resources and Alwnni Affairs are sponsormg a homecoming Alumni Career Panel at 3 .p.m. on Oc· tober 19. The career panels and ahunnipanelists are: COMMUNICATIONS Walter Tower' 53 Richard Ferguson '67 Paul Gallant '62 Joseph Kaknes '73 Albert Callan '41 LAW Jerold Kerscher '57 James Resiman '61 Dante Scaccia '45 Dnaiel Riesel '58 Peggy Miller '74 BUSINESS-FINANCE Thomas Hitchcock '66 Robert Bishop '43 John Davis '68 Robert Bischoff '46 Jill M. Stockman '74 HUMANITIES 112. President of Nimrod Press Boston, Massachusetts Vice President WE2N Radio Station Bridgeport, Conn. Accounty Executive Grey Advertising . NewYork, N.Y. Publisher The Gloucester Magazine Gloucester, Mass. Editor and Publisher Chatham Courier Chatham, N.Y. HUMANITIES114. Real Estate Law New York, N.Y. Patent Law New York, N.Y. Trial Law Syracuse, N.Y.· Environmental Law Litigation HUMANITIES 117 Conn. Mutual Life Boston, Mass. Senior Vice President NewYotkStock Exchange Assistant Vice President Irving Trust New York, N.Y. Manager, Internat. Marketing General Electric Utica, New York IBM This i:; a great. opportunity to come and meet Union Alumni and gather mfonnatlon on how to make a transition from campus to careers. · --REFRESHMENTS.-- UNIVERSITY OF CHICAGO GRADUATE SCHOOL OF BUSINESS M.B.A. All maiors and fields invited! Come to our meetings to hear about our MBA and PhD Pro~rams and to ask any questions about the curriculum, admissions, fihancia 1 aid, and career opportunities available in the following fields of management: Health Administration Finance Marketing General Management Accounting Public and Non-Profit Human 'Resources Economics Management Science Policy Thursday October 25 Contact Placement and Career Counseling for sigh ups. 1. Over 65 years of age. 2. Under 65 years of age with a. Heart Disease of a1;1y cause. b. Chronic bronc.ho- pulmonary disease. c. Chronic renal disease. d. Chronic metabolic disease as diabetes melititus. The Health Service will proyi~e vacc.ine at cost for .any mdiVtdual w1th his physician's pr:e~eription during ambulatory chmc hours-9-11 p.m. daily except Wednesday 4-6 p.m. The Philosophy Department announces that Basil Mitchell will be~ speaking on the philosophy of religion at 8:30 p.m. on October 16 in Hwnanities 117. The Sailing Club needs to be reorganized. All interested please sign a list in Ms. Marra's office. Seniors--make-up date for pictures is Nov. 7, 9-12. Formals in Hale House Lower Lounge and 1-5 Informals Jackson's Gardens. All are invited to join the Student En vi ton mental Alliance in a \Clean-Up\ of Jackson's Gardens on Suns.iay, Oct. 14 from 1-3 p.m. Refresh- ments will be served. The President's Commission on the Status of Women at Union College cordial\y invites all women associated with the College--students, faculty, faculty wives, administrators and members of the staff-to ~ cocktail party in Strauss Lounge from 4:00 to 6:00 p.m. on Friday, October 26, 1979. Bug Owners 2 good snow tires for sale 1 fair snow tire 2 almost new bias ply summer tires · 2 wheels For more info call Ron Ginsberg 370-6001 or 477-4866. BLOODMOBILE Oct.14 & 15 Strauss Lounge The Annual Alpha Delta Phi Halloween Grain Party is coming. Get your costumes ready. Typing in my own home. 2097 Foster Ave. Muriel Monaco. 374-7031. LOST LOST: A gray-brown checkered woolen cap. If found call 372-1858. TYPING Fast & Accurate 75c a page Satisfadion Guaranteed PHONE 355-6991 1st Act: 2nd Act: HELP WANTED Swim Instructor Wanted: A swim instructor is needed to teach beginner-intermediate lessons at the local Jewish Community Center. Must )lave W.SI. For more information eontact Debbie at 370-6658. PERSONALS Debonia~-I aim who I aim! ! ! r Who the hell are you?) 4:56 ·-~-~--,----- Dem: Cork it! Mel Pete: Open any. stuck doors lately? \roommate'' Megan: Macy's Men Store? Come on!! Matt: Nine more days!· tWe made it!) Dem: Oh ... say.-: .. Can you see'? 1 sorry ! ) Mara and Andy: Happy one year! Congrats! Mel & Dem . Deme: Tu eres la persona mas magnifica del mw1do. L.P. Kappa Alpha: Thanx for all the things .(cigarettes, secrets, beers) we've shared. Your little girL 60 percent-40 percent? 50 percent-50 percent'? Why not 110 percent..,ncgative 10 percent? Bobby, get your act together. ----·-·- -------~ Sood. The Cleveland Indians eat Donor Kebab and Curry too. I .ook where they are. _________ .---. _____ _ . . Janet, Heavens to BERGENtroid. Pick up any drunks lately? Sue, How 'bout some fun in the Sauna. Grant - Keep on the· look out for a missing roll of toilet paper. Last seen in Upsala Sweden. If found, please return to Romn 31. Hey, Barryski, you can EAT MY SHORTS! Score: 4 to 2 to zero. Keep up the good work BERD! Coughchinski-a disease that hits chins as you cough down the ski slope. --------~ Rolene: yom: eyes say, \zzzuh zzzuh, but ... \ ------ --~--- Hey Marty, are you still a virgin? --the sisters of Chi Sigma Theta· Micky and Jane-you two should be washing dishes at Sambos! Claire -----· ----- Tic: How come it always Mo-willyou at least pay ehild looks like rain? Tac . support? Jane F.:d: Happy Belated Birthday! (And don't forget to visit me!) Oeme -----~-·--- Matt: How did you get the black eye and how do you take care of one? From one who knows! (ps. I love you) ---- -. -- ---- C: Hugs and kisses from Wendy and me! Tom, Chris, Bob, Stu and. J akc--Only one week til Wen- dell's other sister comes to Union! Are your boxing gloves ready? MO, Room 258 enjoys your company. Left side especially. J.S. ------·---- Wanna do some \mishing''? Inquire at campus pizza cmmter W.ednesday ~r Thursday nights. lhnt: the nusher has a beard. Help!! we have a problem that is one inch long. We need help-4th floor West Wanted : 1 box of tissues. Willing to exchange with -a tomato--direct from Chit- tenango. ------- Rand--We all promise to help when McDonalds declines to press charges. ----------- Mush: \Think disc\ from the bathroom window signed A \cell mate\ Coffeehouse presents THE Fiction Brothers Friday Oct. 1.2 8:30 p.m. in Co baret Room l..ive Musil' * (,'ojf'ees · * Donuts *Teas Joe Mirafles Charlie Tidmarch Bill DiConza , COMING SOON!! . Night I Club Thurs. Oct. 11 at 9 & 11 p.m. Nov. 10 .. IU: willt to en oven at\ad4 .Tali Mo· MS· anoth To fuzzy To garb;:~ To We'lL Sunda ladies ·Adri make- Deb. I'OtlOt Lisa Debt Conn cc \M COl £l {j fu . I . ~ NS intj NS the OPJ tee ind Ed1 8.5 f:Vii:~=· ~ I ~!~~\~jn:; ,··=~:::f .. I

Page 8 OONOORDIENSIS, October 11, 1979 classifiebs PtACEMENT A representative from Princeton University, Woodrow Wilson School of Public and International Affairs, will be on campus on Tharsday, October 18. He will hold a group meeting in Placement at 3:30 on October 18. If yeu would like to talk with the representative, please come in and sign 1:1p. Peace Cor.ps-VI'STA wHl hold a GENERAL INFORMATION MEETING on Monday, October 19 in Strauss Lounge at 4 p.m. If you are interested, please plan to attend. We have information and applications in the Placement office. Please check Placement for Sammer Opportunities and Internships. The following is the schedule for the administration gf the Federal Government's Professional and Administrative Career Examination tPACE)-FiliNg Peried: January 2, 1980- Fe~rua~y 15, 1980; Testing Penod: March 1, 1980-April 26 1980. , Peace Corps-VISTA will hold a gelileral information meeting . in Strauss I ,ounge on Monday, October 29, 1979 from 4-5:30 p.m. BULLETIN BOARD Schaffer Ubmry, Fall Book Sale on October 16 & 17 Tuesday and Wednesday. Book . sale opens at 9:30 a.m. in Schaffer Library lobby. Hard- backs, 50 cents; paperbacks, 25 cents. Flu Vaccine Although a mild influenza seas?n is ~x:pected this year, flu vaccme IS recommended for ''HIGH RISK'' individuals: ATTENTION: FRESHMEN, SOPHOMORES, JUNIORS & SENIORS The ~lacement & Career Resources and Alumni Affairs are sponsormg a homecoming Alumni Career Panel at 3 p.m. on Oc- tober 19. The career panels and alumni panelists are: COMMUNICATIONS Walter Tower' 53 Richard Ferguson '67 Paul Gallant '62 Joseph Kaknes '73 Albert Callan '41 LAW Jerold Kerscher '57 James Resiman '61 Dante Scaccia '45 Dnaiel Riesel '58 Peggy Miller '74 BUSINESS-FINANCE Thomas Hitchcock '66 Robert Bishop '43 John Davis '68 Robert Bischoff '46 Jill M. Stockman '74 HUMANITIES 112 President of Nimrod Press Boston, Massachusetts Vice President WE2N Radio Station Bridgeport, Conn. Accounty Executive Grey Advertising New York, N.Y. Publisher The Gloucester Magazine Gloucester, Mass. Editor and Publisher Chatham Courier Chatham, N.Y. HUMANITIES 114 Real Estate Law New York, N.Y. Patent Law New York, N.Y. Trial Law Syracuse, N.Y. Environmental Law Litigation HUMANITIES 117 Conn. Mutual Life Boston, Mass. Senior Vice President New York Stock Exchange Assistant Vice President Irving Trust New York, N.Y. Manager, Internat. Marketing General Electric Utica, New York IBM This i~ a great. opportunity to come and meet Union Alumni and gather mformat10n on how to make a transition from campus to careers. --REFRESHMENTS-- UNIVERSITY OF CHICAGO GRADUATE SCHOOL OF BUSINESS M.B.A. All maiors and fields invited! Come to our meetings to hear about our MBA and PhD Programs and to ask any questions about the curriculum, admissions, fihancia 1 aid, and career opportunities available in the following fields of management: Health Administration Finance Marketing General Management Accounting Pub I ic and N.on- Profil Human Resources Economics Management Science Pol.icy Thursday October 25 Contact Placement and Career Counseling for sigh ups. 1. Over 65 years of age. 2. Under 65 years of age with a. Heart Disease of any cause. b. Chronic broncho- pulmonary disease. c. Chronic renal disease. d. Chnmic metabolic disease as diabetes melititus. The Health Service will pro:ri.de vacc.ine a~ cost for ,any tndlVIdual w1th hts physician's p1~e~eription during ambulatory chmc hours-9-11 p.m. daily except Wednesday 4-Q p.m. The Philosophy Depart~nent announces that Basil Mitchell will be speaking en the philosophy of religion at 8:30 p.m. on October 16 in Humanities 117. The Sailing Club needs to be reorganized. All interested please sign a Hst in Ms. Marra's office. Seniors--make-up date for pictures is Nov. 7, 9-12. Formals in Hale House Lower Lmmge and 1-5 In formals Jackson's Gardens. All are invited to join the Student Environmental Alliance in a \Clean-Up\ of Jackson's Gardens on Sunday, Oct. 14 from 1-3 p.m. Refresh- ments will be served. The President's Commission on the Status of Women at Union College cordially invites all women associated with the College--students, faculty, faculty wives, administrators and members of the staff-to ~ cocktail party in Strauss Lounge from 4:00 to 6:00 p.m. on Friday, October 26, 1979. Bug Owners 2 good snow tires for sale 1 fair snow tire 2 almost new bias ply summer tires · 2 wheels For more info call Ron Ginsberg 370-QOOl or 477-4866. BLOODMOBILE Oct. 14 & 15 Strauss Lounge The Annual Alpha Delta Phi Halloween Grain Party is coming. Get your costumes ready. --- -~~-~~-- Typing in my own home. 2097 Foster Ave. Muriel Monaco. 374-7031. LOST LOST: A gray-brown checkered woolen cap. If found call 372-1858. TYPING Fast & Accurate 75c a page Satisfaci ion Guaranteed PHONE 355-6991 1st Act: 2nd Act: MC: HELP WANTED Swim Instructor Wanted: A swi1n instructor is needed to teach beginner-intermediate lessons at the local J·ewish C01nmunity Center. Must have W.SI. For more information contact Debbie at 370-6658. De b~mia--1 aim who I aim! ! ! 1 Who the hell are you? l 4:56 Dem: Cork it! Mel -~----·--·--- Pete: Open any ~tuck doors lately? \roommate\ Megan: Macy's Men Store? i. ·~me on! ! Matt: Nine more days! 1We made it!) ------ Dem: Oh ... say': .. Can you see? I sorry!) --~-- ~~ ---- Mara and Andy: Happy one year ! Congrats! Mel & Dem . ------~--~ De me: Tu eres Ia persona mas magnifica del mwtdo. L.P. Kappa Alpha: Thanx for all the things r cigarettes, secrets, beers) we've shared. Your little girl. 60 percent-40 percent? 50 percent-50 percent? Wlily not 110 (Wrcent-ncgative 10 percent? Bobby, get your act together. Soo(:l. The Cleveland Indians eat Domr Kebab and Curry to@. Look wlilere they are. Janet, Heavens to BERG E.Ntroid. Pick up any drunks lately? Sue, How 'bout some fun in the Sauna. Grant -~~-· ~---~--- Keep an the look out for a missingroU of toilet paper. Last seen in Upsala Sweden. If found, please return to Roorn31. Hey, Barryski, yo~:~ can EAT MY SHORTS! ~----~----- Score: 4 to 2 to zero. Keep up the good work BERD! Coughchinski-a disease that hits chins as you cough down the ski slope. ---------- Rol1ene: your eyes say , \zzzuh zzzuh, but ... \ Hey Marty, are you still a virgin? -the sisters of Chi Sigma Theta Micky and Jane-you two should be washing dishes at Sambos! Claire Tic: How come it always :vlo-will you at least pay child looks like rain? Tac support? Jane Ed: Happy Belated Birthday! 1 And don't forget to visit me! J De me Matt: How did you get the black eye and how do you take care of one? From one who knows! fps. I love you) C: Hugs and kisses from Wendy and me! Tom, Chris, Bob, Stu and .J akl•--Only one week til Wen- rlell's other sister comes to Union! Are your boxing gloves t'eady? MO, Room 258 enjoys your company. Left side especially. .J.S. W~nna do some \rnishing''? Inqun·e at campus pizza counter Wednesday or Thursday nights. Hint: the misher has a beard. Help!! we have a problem that is one inch long. We need help--4th floor West Wanted: 1 box of tissues. Willing to exchange with a tomato--direct from Chit- tenango. Rand--We all promise to help \'v·hen McDonalds declines to press charges. Mush: \Think disc\ from the bathroom window signed A ''cell mate\ Coffee house THE Fiction Brothers Friday Oct. 12 8:30 p.m. in Cabaret Room IJi n> .'W usic * (,'o Jf'eps * /)onul.\i * '/(>us COMING SOON!! Joe Miralles Charlie Tidmarch Night .t Bill DiConza Club Thurs. Oct. 11 at 9 & 11 p.m. Nov. 10 i 'i 1 l - HOI; will be to enst ''verall acader .Jane Mo--l MS-1 anothe1 To H fuzzy r To a ~arb~g~ To 01 We'll b< s~mday ladies Adria rrtake-uJ Deb. ,·ount Lisa F r >ebbi1 cor \M~ coil. a le. fu/ft NS; inte, NSJ the, opp< tech indu Edu; B.S. • ;::-: ....

• 50 .10 tt? ~r. ns )0. to ny a tst u ~1. lT lp at he y, a hi vo at ld '? ~r s. d. n ~d ~. a t- p ~0 RQB: your English rewrites wiU be found at the Pub. This is to ensure your convenience and \veraU happiness. Signed: an academy award winner .Jane--Mo is sterile Mo--Baby. MS~to one wing-nut from another: I won't cry! To the girl w.ith the purple fuzzy robe-Beware To the girl with the purple garb;Ige liners-Beware To our· Sunday night rats- W c 'lL be in the skellar at 9:30. Sunday from two mysterious ladies ·Adrianna V.-take off the make-up and brazziete --·--------- Deb. S.-pizza faces don't , ·ount Lisa P.-r love you JMC Debbie P.-Nice haircut Connic--Lingus COMPUTER SCIENTIST OONCORDIENSJS, October 11, 1979 classifieos Dave Ruden--how's your term off hie-hee! ---------- Beth I •. -Mangia !· ! Sheryl l...:.grow up, not out )oyce K.-You Bitch!. Debbie R.--1 use Pierre Cardin condoms and Gucci whips! Darcy H.--turn off the foghorn Stacey C.~Did ya ever here -of electrolysis? girls of '83. Anna C.~ You ignorsant slut! What's worse than a giraffe with a sore throat? Megan with a sinus headache ... ___ - --~-- Deborah F.~I love you toe .JMC .Jim M.--Rev. V.n where have you been preaching?-3r\'d floor Davidson South ---- -· -· ·---- Nash H.--Does Raid kill beetles? Lyssa S.--Typical Roslyn Ritch! Maria D.-Where do you put your shots? -· -· --------- SWINE.!. Volleyball Union varsity volleyball Coach Lynne Barta will hold a volleyball clinic for area high schools at 8 a.m. Stmday, October 28, a:t the Union Fieldhouse. This is the first time Union has hosted such a dinic and Coach Barta hopes it will spark interest in the sport among local higb school students. Coach Barta is the volleybaU chairperson for the Capital District Board of Women Sports Officials and has coached the Empire State Volleyball Team for the past two years. This is her third season with volleyball at Union where she also coaches women's basketball and soft- ball. Assisting Coach Barta with the clinic will be some of the ELECTROMC ENGINEER Dutchwomen from Union's highly successful volleyball team. 'flu squad .boasts a 3-1 record this season after narrowly lasing their last game to Vassar. They will spend the morning driUing players on skills such as setting,,. passing, bl.ocking, spiking and footwork. The af- ternoon wi:tl be devoted to scrimmage and wiH serve the additional £uncti<m of a rating. clinic for new officials for the National' Association of Girls' and Women's Sports. Acceptable officials become members of t.he Capital District Board l1f Women's Sports Officials and are given ap- prentice, lGcal or state stan- ding. . Sever~! area high schools are invited 1ncludlng Linton, Mt. Pleasant, Niskayuna. Scha.:Jnwnt.., Mohonasen, Guild~rland, .Schoharie, Scotia· GlenviUe, Dra~er, Notre Dame- Bishop Gibbons, Hudson Falls, and Cold Spring, but Union welcomes the participation of an v school concerned with im.pro.ving their skills. Interested coaches should contact Coach Barta at the Union College Athletic Office. 'As a college student faced 1\'ith .finding a job and .Harting a career you are presented many options .. VSA should be one of_I'J>Ur considerations. Working at .VSA has been both a challenge and a continual learning experience since our mission demands that we work on the cutting edge of technology. I ha~·e eiperienced the sarisfaction :that comes with han'ng been a member of project teams inrolri!d 1\:ith a rariety c~f computer systems and communicmions prohlems ... . Wark Walch B.E.E ••. W.E. MATHEMATICIAN \My objective on waduatingfrom co/lege was to obtain employment with a leader in my profession NSA fulfilled that objective. The histories of NSA and the computer have been intertwined since the on\gins of both. NSA continues to be the pacesetter in the data ·systems field - presenting opportunities to be a part of the latest technology being developed and used industry-wide. \ \As an NSA Mathematician I enjoy the opportunity to app(l' a 1·ariety c~f mathematical disciplines. including t, many which fall under the heading 'pure mathematics. 'to my job. A wide range of sophisticated cryptologic ptohlems presents a constant challenge todel't?lop new and creatil·e approaches~ In fact. creatil·i~l' is probab(~· the o11e universal requirement for an NSA Mathematician.\ l.imlu Shields B.A .. .'IL-L .'Uathl'lnatics PUT YOURSELF IN THE PICTURE Edward Johnson - B.S. Computer'Science At the National Security Agency your future will be linked to the nation's. Whether your interests are in electronic engineeripg, computers. mathematical research or high pri6rity translation, you will play a meaningful role in the . nation's communications security or the production of foreign intelligence. NSA is challenge. NSA is opportunity. 0 National Security Agency headquarters are located in the pleasant Maryland suburbs, close to Washington, D.C., Baltimore and Annapolis, Maryland - just minutes away from c:ountless cultural, historical, recreational and educational opporttliiities. 0 Find out mote about career opportunities offered by NSA; schedule an interview with us through .your\College Placement Office. Or call us collect at 301-796-6161. Mr. Bernard Norvell. College Recruitment Manager, will be happy to tal.l\ with you. 0 National Security Agency. Attn: M32R, Fort George G. Meade, Maryland 20755. An Equal Opportunity Employer. U.S. Citizenship Required. NSA National Security Agency Page 9 the and anti- sutrivy ~gue demand that, the Student Senate or the AU College Forum (or whatever · c.alled) establish a Committee on Worm Affairs to draft and implement rules to stop this · senselessmurder,. We al~putge the entire stud~rtt body tn join · . · Schenectady chapter ·of

50 110 ans to in a If 31. up the ay, a Chi at a to ' . ! ,'i i ' l I ., HDH: your English rewrites will be found at the Pub. This is to ensure your convenience and 11Verall happiness. Signed: an at'ademy award winner .Jane--M0 is sterile - . - -------·-- Mo--Baby. ------ ----- --- MS-to one wing-nut from another: I won't cry! -~--- -- To the girl with the purple fuzzy robe-Beware ---------------- To the girl with the purple ~arb~ge liners--Beware ------------- To our Sunday night rats- We'll be in the skeHar at 9:30 Sunday from two mysterious ladies ·-- ------------- Adrianna V.-take 0ff the l!lake-up and brazziere -·· ------- Deb. S.-pizza faces don't '·ount --- - - - - - - -- - -- Lisa P.-I love you JMC r >ebbie P.-Nice haircut Connie--Lingus COMPUTER SCIENTIST OONOORD!ENSIS, 0ctober 11, 1919 classifieos Dave Ruden--how's your term off tee-hee! Beth L.-Mangia!! -------·--- Sheryl I.-grow up, not out .Joyce K.-You Bitch!. Debbie R.--1 use Pierre Cardin condoms and Gucd whips! --· -------------- Darcy H.--turn off the foghorn Stacey C.-Did ya ever here of elel'trolysis? girls of '83. Anna C.- You ignorsant sh1t! ·-·- ---------- What's worse thaH a giraffe \vith a sore throat? Megan with a sinus headache Deborah F.--I love you too .JMC . - ... _____ ---- .Jim M.--Rev. V.D. where have you been preaehing?-3~<d floor Davidson South - .. _______ _ Nash H.--Does Haid kill beetles? Betsy :Vl.--You twit! I.ys:;a S.--Typical RG>slyn Biteh! Maria D.-Where do you put yo {llr shots? --·-------- SWINE! . --- ------- Union varsity volleyball C0>ach Lynne Barta will hold a volleyball clinic for area high schools at 8 a.m. Sunday, Oct0ber 28, at the Union Fieldhouse. This is the first time Union has hosted such a ':linic and Coach Barta hopes it will spark interest in the sport among local high school students. Coach Barta is the volleyball chairperson for the Capital District Board of Women Sp€lrts Officials and has coached the F:n1pire State Volleyball Team for tl:le past two years. This is her third season with volleyball at Union where sfue also coaches women's basketball and soft- balL Assisting Coach Barta with the dinic will be some of the ELECTRONIC ENGINEER Dutchwomen from Union's highly st~ccessful volleyball team. The squad boasts a 3-1 record this season after narrowly losing their last game to Vassar. They will spend the morning drilling players on skills such as setting, passing, blocking, spiking and footwork. The af- ternoon wil:l be devoted to scrimmage and will serve the additimml function of a rating clinic for new officials for the • National Association of Girls' and Women's Sports. Acceptable officials become memb€rs of the Capital District Board of Women's Sports Officials and are given ap- prentice, l'ocal or state stan- ding. . Severa-l area high schools are invited inclwding Linton, Mt. Pleasant, ~iskayuna. Schalmont, :\'Iohona.sen, Guilderland, Schoharie, Scotia- Glenville, Draper, Notre Dame- Bish0p Gibbons, Hudson F'alls, and C0ld Spring, but Union welcomes the participation of anv school concerned with im.proving their skills. Interested coaches should contact Ceach Barta at the Union College Athletic Office. ·.4, a ,·ollq{<' 1tudent fu.ced with tindmg u Joh ,uzJ 1turting 1.1 <<treeryuu are pre.\ented many optiom . .\'SA 1houlJ he one o{_1pur comidemtion..1. ~t'orking Lit SSA ha1 been hoth a ,·hallenge and a continual teaming experience since our mi11ion demands that we work on the cutting ed?,c of techrwloyy. I ha\·e experienced the lati.l(acti()fl that ,·omt'.\ with hu ring heen a memher otpmfect team1 irwol1·ed 111'rh a rarit'tr ol cmnputl!r .1_\'\tenz., c..md ,·ommunic,uirm.l prohlem.1 ... . Hark J.l'alch B.E.E., \.f.E. MATHEMATIC IAN Page 9 L.e~tters Contmued fr.Q'm page 2 Worms . . . ' . . . ' ,· .... . To the Editors: tast · wee:k}s heavy • br-ought to ot;tr attention., one . Uniqn's rnost,®rious yet · . ·, ; • .. · ... ·· . · · • ·. · .. hurt1ans $f.OfllP ·. on them ~nd rUt!. over ' l~f'ge tnQt()f \tehitles until 1:-hD·~· ·become indistinguishable pHes. Imagine a worm•s unbearably sorrow upon finding glued to the ground by the amorphous mass that was once lwr child! This horrible ver· micide is unfair, ecologically unsound and threatens Union's reputation as the most humanitarian and anti* anthelmintic sub-Ivy !.€ague school. We demand that the Student Senate or the All College Forum f ot Whatever it's called). establish a Committee on Worm Affairs to draft and implement rules to stop this senseless murder. We als() urge the entire student body to join the Schenectady chapter of· N.O.W .• (National Organization of Worms) in order to demonstrate what we are sure will be widespread coneern. SAVE THE WORMSJ · Sincerely, Tom Fatrell'Sl Adam Frey '80 P.S. Time and place for weekly N.O.W. meetings will be posted • Fall Rush To the Women of Union College:· rt has come to the attention of women participating in · Organizations on campus there is some confusion as Fall Rush procedures. As the campus may or \My objective on graduating from college was to obtain employment with a leader in my proje.1sion. NSA \A1 an .VSA .\fathcmarician l ;U enfoy the opponuni(r to app(l' a rariety · o( mathematical thlciplines. irzdudin;; , . manr which fall under the heading pure . not be aware of, the fr8tternities at Union operate under a mugtt: procedure· as defined by Intr~fraternity Cooocil {IF C). As of now, sororities are not organized uncter a alliance such as the however, plans are· · · fulfilled that objective. The hi.1tories ol NSA and the computer hm·e heen intertwined since the ori?,ins of hot h. NSA continues to he the pacesetter in the data s_vstems field- presenting opportunities to he a part of the latest technology being dereloped and used industry·wide.\ Edward Johnson B.S. Computer Science mathematics· .. to my jah. A ll'ide ranxe o( .10phi1ti£·ared cryptolo!!,ic prohlem.1 presents a constant challerzp,e to Je\·elop new and crcatii'L' appmache.1. In fact. creatirity i1 prohah~r the one universal requirement for an :VSA .\fathematician.\ l.inda .\'hie/d.\ B .. t .. 'H. A. \!athematic.\ PUT YOURSELF IN THE PICTURE At the National Security Agency your future will be linked to the nation's. Whether your interests are in electronic engineering. computers, mathematical research or high priority translation, you will play a meaningful role in the nation's communications security or the production of foreign intelligence. NSA i~ challenge. NSA is opportunity. 0 National Security Agency headquarters are h:ated in the pleasant Maryland suburbs, dose to Washington, D.C., Baltimore and Annapolis. Maryland - just minutes away from .:ountles.s cultural. historical. recreational and educational opportunities. 0 Find out more about career opportunities offered hy NSA; schedule an interview with us through your·College Placement Office. Or call us collect at JOJ-7%-6161. Mr. Bernard Norvell. College Recruitment Manager, will be happy t<.l talk with you. 0 National Security Agency. Attn: MJ2R. Fort George G. Meade, Maryland 20755. An Equal Opportunity Employer. U.S. Citizenship Required. NSA National Security Agency ,, to form a Pan*Hellenic LOitmr:u by the end of the school The Pan-Hellenic Council ( · C) will be the sister counterpart to the IFC. Until the tor1ma1~10n of the. PHC. Sigma Delta and Delta Gamma will cotlauct separate Rushes. This has the procedure for the past t.h .. tl.:.• · years and will continue more year. We hope this clears confusion as to why DG wiU extending bids Odober 30 SOT will be extending November 2G. As we have next year we will be working under the same Rush Ptocedut•es. If you hav;e any further questions~ please feel free to stop by either ch~pter house and the sisters .of DG and SD'l' will be happy to answer , any questions you may have.

Page 10 OONOORDIENSIS} October 11? 19\19 - ----Around C-ampus~­ Fellowship Seniors have until Oct. 19 to apply for a Danforth Graduate Fellowship. The fellowships are open to all qualified persons who have a serious interest in teaching carreers ia colleges and universities, and who plan to pursue a Ph. D. in a graduate school iR the U.S . .in any field of study common to the un- dergraduate liberal arts curriculum. Approximately 55- 60 fellowships will be awarded nationally to college seniors. The foundation is making a special effort to bring qualified persons from racial and ethnic minorities into the teaching profession. Approximately 25 percent of the awards will go to applicants in these groups. The Danforth Fellowship is normally renewable annually until the completion of study for the degree or for a maximum of four years. Fellowships cover tuition and fees up to $4,4:00, and provide stipends of up to $2,500 for single or married-but- childless fellows. Additional allowances are made for children. ~ Applicants will be judged on academic merit, commitment - to teaching, moral and -ethical values, and a dedication to enhancing these values in their professional lives. This is the last year the foundation wm: award fellowships inthis program. Fer more information contact Roy Wiese, instructor of economics. Lec·ture THE PRE-HEALTH SOCIETY PRESENTS Dr. Neil Lempert to lecture on \Status and Problems in Human Henal Tran- splantation\. On Tuesday. October 16 at 7:00p.m. in the Old Chapel, the Pre-Health Saciety will present a very important information session for freshmen, soph@mores, and juniors which will include Dr. Willard Roth and other faculty of the ciology aad Chemistry departments. Following this meeting wiU be a fascinating lecture on Renal Transplantation by Dr. Neil Lempert, who is currently Professor of Surgery and Renal Transplantation at Albany Medical School. He will ·be discussing some of the ethical issues and problems of this intriguing and expanding field of medicine. FollowiNg the lecture there will be a party during which students will have the opportunity to speak with Dr. Lempert and the faculty members. This party promises to be a good time for aH as there will be music, beverages, and munchies. Bring a friend and meet Dr. Lempert and the faculty members. IFC On Oct. 2, at the fi1~st IFC meeting of the year, the possibility of forming a Fraternity President's Council was discussed. The President's C~uncil, which presumably would be m0re effective than the current IFC, was recom- mended by the Northeast Confederation Of Inter- frate\rnity Councils. After considerable discussion of the feasibility of such a council, a motion by DU that IFC representatives must be vice- presidents was passed by a wide margin. -. Turning to other matters, the vote on the new constitution was tabled pending review by in- --divid,ual houses. The fraternity .pledge meal plan, an important segment of the pled&e period, is being examined in an effort to assure fair reimbursement of the participating houses: Once aga-in L:BT is compiling a complete student directory which will soon be distributed. The IFC regrets· that the composite pictures of Chi Psi and Kappa Alpha did not appear in the Greek directory. Both houses invite interested students to get to know the brothers on an individual basis. The next meeting-of the IFC will be on Tuesday, Oct. 16 in the PBK room. Travel Spring Break March 22 to 29- TAN IN SO. AMERICA. The student activities office is planning a trip to Cartagena, open to the whole campus community. A travel night will hr offered in the Conference Houm, 3rd floor ·Carnegie on 'Tues .. evening Oct. 16 at 8 p.m. A film on Cartagena, free beer and a representative will be present to answer -questions. Cartagena offers history, founded :in 1533, swimming, snorkeling in the Caribbean, night -life, casinos, discos. Your hotel will be the Hotel Caribe with private beach, olympic size ,pool, air-conditioned rooms. More details will be in later editions. Be sure lo make the Travel Night Tues., Oct. 16 at 8 p.m. -Campus contact Lorraine Marra in the .Student Activities Office, 6118': · , · \ Scholarships ------AREA CALEND·AR-· _...., byCPT.MICHAELR.VICK CULTURE October 15--Professional historians, .~teachers, and history researchers will inaugurate the Albany Seminar, a series of monthly scholarly meetings about New York history, with their first dinner and meeting, Oct. 15 at the Aurania club, Albany. The Seminar will then meet the 3rd Monday of every month during the academic year. For further information, call the Division of Historical and Anthropoligical Servic.es, 474-6917. October 15-Jan. 13-''Treasure House: Museums of the Empire State,\ an exhibit of art and artifacts representing the collections of 50 prominent N.Y. musuems will open in Albany at the New York State Museum, Empire State Plaza. For fur- ther information, call 474-5877. October 16-ART EXHIBIT AND SALE: 500 pieces of Original Oriental Art will be .presented by Maison, Ltd. of Baltimore between 10 am and 4 pm at the Schacht Fine Arts Center at Russell Sage College. For further information, call 270-2344 or 270-2246. DANCE October 13- There will be a premiere of new dance works by the EBA Ensemble at 8 p.m. The primiere will be shown at the EBA Chapter House Theater, 351 Hudson, Albany; For further information, call 465-9916. . October 14-\EBA DAY\ in Albany. EBA will hold its siXth birthday celebration with a · performance by the EBA Ensemble, live music and door prizes. The event will be held at the EBA Chapter House Theater, 351 Hudson Avenue, Albany. For further in- formation, call 465-9916. t.ECTURE October 12--Dr. Kenneth Cooper, originator of Aerobics Programs will speak at the Schacht Fine Arts Center. For further information call270-2344 or 270-2246. October 14--THE VICTIM, ~aul Bellow's novel about post- war anti-semitism, will be the subject of a lecture at the New York State Museum at 1: 30 p.m., Sunday, October 14in The . Auditorium, Empire State Plaza, Albany. For further information call 474-5842. October 16-The fall series of \Tuesday Topics,\ noon-hour lectures at the New York State Museum, begins October 16 with'a talk about \Great Apes: Self Awareness Through the Other Primates,\ by Dr. Gordon Gallup of SUNY Albany's Psychology Depart- ment for more information call 474-5842. October 17--Dr- Myron Tribus, Director of the Center for ·Advanced Engineering Study at MIT, will deliver the 49th Steinmetz Memorial Lecture at 8 PM, Wednesday, October 17, at the General Electric Research and Development Center Auditorium. For further in- formation call 381-2131. MUSIC October 13...,.The New York Philomusica will be performing at SUNY Albany's Performing Arts Center at 10 AM. For further information call 457- 8606. October 13-The Department of Music, the University · at Albany, will present a Lecture Recital by the iriternationally renowned oboist Ronald Roseman at 10' AM. in the · Recital Hall of the Performing Arts Center. For more in- formation call 457-8608 or 457- 8205. October 15-The Klezorim, a group of young Jewish Men enthusiatic about their musical roots, will perform in concert at '8 p.m. at St. Mark's Community Center, Guilderland Center. For • further information, call 482- 0139. October 17-The sensational Irish Flutist, James Galway, returns with the incomparable I Solisti di Zagreb to play Bach and Vivaldi. The concert will take place in Union College Memorial Chapel at 8 p.m. October 18-MUSIC AT THE MUSEUM--Thursday ---noon concert featt,~ring ~ichard Hester, curator of musical instruments, will perform at the Auditorium, New York State Museum. October 19-Violinist Frances Forter, will perform at Troy Music Hall at 8 p.m. For further information, call 270-2344 -or 270- 2246. OPEN HOUSE October 13--COMMUNITY UNIVERSITY DAY: Open house at SUNY Albany will take · place from noon-5 p.m. Come explore the campus and enjoy a wide variety, of tours, demon- strations, lectures, exhibits, films, athletic events, food, and entertainment. RADIO October 15--Four students from the University of North Carolina (Chapel Hill) will match wits with four collegians from Ohio State University (Columbus) on the quiz program COLLEGE BOWL, to be broadcast on the CBS Radio Network the week beginning Monday, October 15. For fur- ther information, c.ontact Cheryl Daly (212) 975-3773. THEATER October 12-14-The premiere · film of the Prize International Cinema Series will feature the 1978 Russian production A SLAVE OF LOVE, to be shown on October 12 & 13 at 8:30p.m. and October 14 at 2:30 p.m. at the University of Albany's ,Performing Arts Center. For further information call Maureen Salkin at 457-8594 or 482-4926. OctQber 18-A very special LETTERS HOME, written by Rose Leiman Goldemberg, will be the first production of the American Place Theater's sixteenth season. The play will be held -at 6:30 p.m. at the American Place Theater located at 111 West 46 Street., N.Y., N.Y. For further in- formation call 541-5144. Octob!'!r 18-21-Russell Sage College· will present the play ELECTRA at 8 p.m. at the .Tames Laurence Meader Little Theater. For further· in- formation call 270 ... 23~ or 27o- 2246. ..) Four Union Sophomores have won . 3 yr._ Army ROTC Scholarships in national competition. They are Edward Berndt, a Computer Science- Electrical Engineer major from Norwalk, Conn., John Can- nizzaro; a Chemistry-Math major from Delmar, NY, Daniel Klein III; a Biology major from Rutland, Vermont, and Kenneth Murphy also a Biology major from Albany, NY. The scholarship pays full tuition, all required books, all aca4emic fees, all supplies I pens, paper, etc.) plus $100.00 per month living allowance up to $1,000.00 per year for each year the Scholarship is in effect. The competition for the 3 year scholarship is extremely keen and are awarded totally on demonstrated a:bility without regard to personal or parental income. Union College students haye experienced tremendous success in these national mmpetitions during t}Je past 3 years. Every Union student who has applied and been recom- mended for the Army ROTC Scholarship has won it. Including the four students this :xear, a total of nine Union students have won Scholar- ships. Seniors Christopher McCarty, Daniel Kittridge-and John Welsh also are among those who are currently taking advantage of this program. The first two years o-f ROTC are offered at Union to make it convenient for Union students to qualify for the Army ROTC program and to apply for the full scholarship. The . ROTC classes are offered through cross-enrollment with Siena College in Loudonville., NY. Courses offered in the first semester, meeting in room N116, Science and Engineering Building, are MS1A, War and Revolutions,. at 2:30 p.m. _on ·wednesday and MSIIA, Leadership· Concepts, at 12:30 p.m. on Wednesday. Students interested in dete~mining whether they qualify for a 3; 2, or 1 year Scholarship should contact GPT Vick during any of the Wed- nesday classes at .Union or call 783-2536. ISA- by KATHRYN ANN LUTHER The An1erican bald-eagle, the ring~tailed lemur, the -siberian tiger,. and now the ISA, This species, known to habitate the choicest regions--special in- ternational dinners, educational discussions, and intriguing parties is now becoming ex- tinct. The causes ar-e many, but · at the top of the list are found disinterest, laziness, and in\ sensitivity to rich and varied cultures surr.m,mding us. The ISA has been known to survive pretty harsh treatment- ·now budgets, poor attendance, an(:f even hard labor-and to fair well io bad weather. It adapted well to these conditions and even improved upon its capacity to survive by fighting for· 9-nd attaining a higher budget. The nourishment upon which it thrives is abundant and is . .well-repr:esented by members of its species. Why then you ask, is. it being threatened by ex- tinction? The cause is quite simple. Although most conditions are favorable and the -ISA has been broug-ht into <COntact with members of nearby ISA 's, it has been discovered that ISA's don't m_?te in captivity. Bound by - limited members, which are rapidly expiring, or so we believe, because we rarely see them anymo~;e, the ISA population dwindles. This is an inexcusable crime on our part because our social evolution· depends upon this active, constr·uctive species . Do you think that: Brazil is one big jungle? Italians eat spaghetti with a spoon? India's streets are filled with starving -children? You have to wear armor to safely walk the streets in the Middle East? Iceland is really Greenland in disguise? All other countries besides the United States and a few countries in Europe are un-· derdeveloped, uncivilized, and therefore, unworthy of your attention? Well, if you answered yes to any of the above, you need help, but you'll have a tough time getting any response from a dead ISA; so assist us in keeping the ISA healthy and active by giving us your mind and body and culture. Remember that the American Culture is a foreign culture to some (){ us and maybe you can · enlighten us in certain areas of doubt. If you feel you have nothing to offer, you are probably wrong, but you will certainly benefit from the ex- perience if you join us, so . . . befriend an endangered species, join the ISA in their efforts to provide enlightening entertainment and better Wl- ders~anding of our neighboring species. Start now by joining our- wine and cheese get together on Fri. Octoper 12 from 8 to 11 p.m. in theStrauss Lounge, Carnegie or contact Bill or'Mohamed at 374- .6235 ... Tenure. . Ad hoc committees have·been formed to evaluate the t.enurab1Tity: of four Union professors. The. four professors are: Prof. Terry S. Weiner, Dept. of Sociology, Assistant Prof. Shelton Schmidt, Dept. of Economics, Assistant Prof. Bruce Reynolds, Dept_. of Economics, and Assistant Prof. Phillip Snow, Dept. of Civil · Continued oil page 7. Ru·c ... byJ. The L team en weekend tough All The te f.rorn la exhibit·in high deg1 record a State go minutes l 4. The fi t·,tearly < Mbany S halftiriiC still knot1 Union o with thes; (lidn't ta Vol I Coach counting Brenda Union vollevbal If B B Thefrt desigr sub me Oppor1 every • Conta. Emplo more i Elec1 Octo and c Refre Plea: Offic

OONOORDIENSIS, October 11} 1979 Page 11 Ru·ggers Blank State by JAY M£•0 ERMOTI' The Union College Rugby team emerged victorious this weekend as they defeated a tough Albany State squad. The team clearly rebounded from fast weeks defeat by exhihiHnggoodteam play and a high degree of morale yards to record a four point try. Albany State got on the scoreboard ruinutes later _tying the score 4- 4. .. The first half saw Union ,·,Jearly outplay and outhustle A~Jhany State but to no avail as halftime arrived with the score still knotted at 4-4. Union opened the second half with the same awesome style. It clidn 't take long for James fiaffney to scamper 10 yi;lrds for a try to :put Union ahead for good. Dave Zuekerhraun's penalty kick later on in the half provided enough insurance for the team to coast easily to its first win. Tough play by the serum and fine defense by the line provided the marginal difference in t~e final outcome as Union won the contest 11-4. Union'snext game is at home this Satunlay at 1:00 against a fierce Colgate ·team. The .~ ruggers thank you for your support this week and hope to see you_again on Saturday as they play perhaps their toughest opponent. this -season. Volleyball Looks To, Spike Williams Coach Lynne Barta is emmting on freshman setter · Rrenda Hugick to bring the Union College Varsity vollevball squad its over Williams in volleyball history, next Thursday at North Adams. After an unnecessary loss to Vassar last week broke their Junior Sheilq O'Donnell undefeated record, Ceach Barta sees the Williams match as an important determiner of the quality of the team. Williams boasted an 18-5 season last year and returns with the same starting line-up. The Union line-up includes three from last year: sophonwre Lynn LeBlanc of Schenectady, j-unior Jill Thomson of Hudson Falls, and junior Sheila O'Donnell of GuHderland. The new players are Kathleen Schatzle, Natalie Stone, Ms. Hugic.k, .t<aren Roth, Amy Hinshaw, and Alisia Grenlund. \It's a young team,\ Barta said, \but their enthusiasm and individual skills make them better than last year's. Volley ball doesn't have stars but Brenda t Hugick} is very , strong in setting l!P the team's offensive plays.\ The position of ~etter is comparable to that of quarterback in other sports. The Garnet women will also meet North Adams Thursday, but the real challenge will be Williams. Another important game on\ the Union schedule is this Saturday's game against Albany. Albany is one of seven teams Union is p1aying against · that has captured the Diyision III title in the past. Come on down to Memorial Field House on Oct. 13 at 7 and root the Union Women on to victory. CAREERS AT B.ECTRIC BOAT The free world's foremost designer and builder of submarines offers exciting opportunities in near1y every engineering discipline. Contact our Professional Employment Department for more infonnation. ! (t)' Electric Boat Divisio~ will be, interviewing on campus on Octo'ber 30, 1979. Informative slide presentations, questions and answer period to be held on the evening of October 16. Refreshments w iII be served. us C•lllen•h•P ReQwe<! -An Equ•• Oppo\unoty Emoi<IV\' -~'\' Please contact the Placement Office for time and place. GENERAL DYNAMICS Electric Boat Division Groton. CT 06340 Ruggers in action. Pool ,Hours: Monday Tuesday Wednesday Thursday ·Friday Saturday Sunday ..... l1: 00-3:30 11:.00-3: 30 1i: 00-3:30 11 ': 00-3: 30 11:00-3:30 12: oo-4: on 7:00-9:30 7:00-9:30 7:00-9:30 7: 00-9: 30 7: 00-8: 30 7: 00-8:30 1: 30-4:30 . Harriers Up Record The Union l'ross-country team won three of four meets this past \\'eek, taking both ends of a double dual against Hamilton and North Adams State last Wednesdav and then spliting a double dual Saturday at Williams, beating Trinity College, while losing to Williams. In Wednesday's meet, held in a torrential down pour, the homestanding Dutchmen swept the first five places and seven of the first ten spots en-route to identical15-48 shutout wins over Hamilton and Trinity. Freshman Dave Dellehunt immediately went to the lead at the start of the race and passed the mile marker in 4:45 as the first six Union runners passed the mile under five minutes. Dellehunt later said, \I guess the arlrenalin was flowing, I didn \t expect to go out that fast.·· Dellehunt lead until three llliles when the Union trio of· Pete Vielkind, Adam Licht and ~d Arnheiter took command. Licht pulled away at the end to win in 26:19, Arnheiter and Vidkind finished second and third in. 26:24 and 26:26, respectively, while Dellehunt and John Casale completed the shut out with fourth and fifth place finishes. An additional bright spot for the Dutchmen was the- running of veterans Jack Connor and Tom Hallenbeck. Connor finished 7th in 27:02 and 464 State St. we deliver Hallenbeck loth in 27:10. Both ha\'e been bothered by sickness and injuries this year and are just beginning to round into form. Inge Stockman christened the women's 5,000 meter course with a record 19:37 win. Stock- man lead from start to finish in the race. Freshmen Danielle Cherniak and Joan O'Connor added third and fourth place finishes. Saturday, the Dutchmen fell prey to a strong Williams team, lnsing a 18-37 decision, but · ained a ;neasure of revenge with a 18-45 thrashing,of Trinity. A pack of 20 rwmers stayed within three strides of each other for the first mile. As the leaders passed the mile in a slow 5:04, the Williams pair of Bhem1ann and Leonard took the lead and quickened the pace with only Union's Jack Connor staying with the pair. Connor began to tire at three miles and the Williams duo romped to an easy win. Freshman Adam Licht was once again the first Union runner to finish, placing fourth in 26:25, Connor bothered by a cramp, faded to sixth in 26:40. Ed Arnheiter and Pete Vielkind added ninth and tenth place finishes, closely followed by Dave Dellehunt, Tom Hallen- beck and John Casales in the next three positions. Union, 4-2 on the year, will take part in the Capital District Championships this Saturday. Schenectady 374-1888 ·- ---·-----------------·

Page 12 OONOORDIENSIS~ October 11} 1979 5porta ' '' : ' •, .~ : • ' I ' ' ' ' • ' • ' ' ' ' I ' ' ' ' ' ' ' • • I I ,/ \ ; y ) Co-captains Ron Plumb and Carmen Saginario with Coa.ch Tom Cahill. Gridders Look To RPI by RICH HOPE Quarterback Frank Sears ran for two touch downs in the first quarter, proving to be all Colby needed to coast by Union 35-12. On Colby's first possession of the game, running back Paul Belanger lateraled to Sears who ran 55 yards for the Mules first score. Before. the Dutchmen's defense could regroup, Colby was on offense again. This time, Sears took a return pitch from fullback George Dolan and went 44 yards for number two touch- down and a 14-0 Colby Lead. Sears scored again in the second period, this time on a keeper, leading his Mules into the locker room with a 21-0 halftime advantage. The second half showed Union come to life, scoring on two Colby turnovers to narrow the spread to 21-12. After Dave Wilbur in· tercepted a Sears pass on the Union 3 yard line, Rich Romer ran one yard to pay dirt for Union's first score. Later in the 3rd quarter, after a Union's first score. Later in the 3rd quarter, after a Union fumble recovery, it was Romer again, this time for a 13 yard carry to make it 21· 12. Colby scored twice more in the fourth period to ice the cake. A Sears-to-Belanger 11 yard pass made it 28-12 and Shuta Aki ran 11 yards for Colby's final score in the closing minutes. Colby, 2-1, outgained Union 431-133. The Mules rushed for 342 yards while the Dutchmen carried for 73 yards, 72 belonging to Romer in 27 tries. \We were just flat\ said linebacker Dan Leff. \We fell behind early and couldn't-get it back. We came out stickin in the third quarter but we failed to keep it up.'' The Dutchmen, 1-2, travel to arch-rival, undefeated RPI this Saturday. EXTRA POINTS: Dan May, junior from East Greenbush, was named to the weekly ECAC All-Star team last week after his 10 point performance against WPI, leading Union to a 16-14 victory. May is also the team punter sporting a 33.4 yard average in 25 kicks. The return of Rich Romer has given Union's offense a shot in the arm. Romer has all th~e team touchdowns this year gaining 180 yards in 53 carries. The Union-RPI rivalry is the states oldest. Union holds a 44 ~arne advantage in the long- standing series with a 58-14 record vs. RPI. The Dutchmen will be looking for their fifth straight victory against. their rivals. Booters Lose Two In Rain· The 2~2 Union College so~cer team takes to the road for the first time this season with a way contests against arch-rivals Albanv State /and RPI. This opens· a critical portion of Union's sehedule as seven of the next eight games are being played OH the road. Albany State will be out to avenge last season's 4-3 defeat at Union and to improve on a 7- 10 deficit in the series. The Danes enter the contest with a 3- 2-1 record. RPI also dropped a decision to Bob Magee's kicker·s last year, by a 4-2 margin. The Engineers, who stUl lead the series between the schools by a wide 22-8-2 margin, are 2-3 on the year. Last week, the weather and many missed scoring op- portunities cost Union dearly. Entering the week with a 2-0 record following shutout per• rormances over Kings Point and Army, Union dropped decisions to nationally ~ranked St. Lawrence, 4-3 in overtime, and to undefeated Hamilton by a 1-0 score. Against St. Lawrence, Union held afield position and shooting edge,. Jt went for naught in the overtime loss. While the St. Lawrence game was played in a steady rain, the H<nnilton defeat was played in a torrential downpour as over an inch and a half of rain fell dming the game. Despite dominating the visiting Con- tinentals, Union could not put a score on the bqard. Holding a 22- 2 shooting advantage the Dutch- men were continually thwarted by a combination of miskicks and puddles. Once again, Union's midfielders, Brian Shea 1 Holyoke, Mass.}, and Jim Stoothoff {Woodstock), and backs Jamie Hilton (Altamont), John Krum (Hudson, Ohio), Mike Mulpeter (Hyde Bark), and Pete Cholakis (Latham) did an outstanding job in limiting Hamilton to two shots and few excursions over the midfield. Sports H,appenings: / Varsity Footba-ll J. V. Football Varsity Soccer J. V. Soccer X-Country Women's Tennis Field Hockey Volleyball Oct. 11-0ct. 16 Oct. 13 at R PI Oct. 12 vs. Williams Oct. 13 at. RPI Oct. 16 at Siena Oct. liat RPI Od.•l3atCentfal P~rk Oct. 12 vs. Oneonta Oct. 13vs. Albany Oct. 13at Russell Sage Oct.ll at N. Adams Field Hockey Blan-ks Green Mouri.tain Junior Buthaina Shukri PHOTOGRAPHERS NEEDED: by BARB PLOTKIN The Women's Field Hockey team conquered Green Mountain with a shutout score of 6.0. The victory increased their win•loss record to 5·1. Last Wednesday in a weather shortened game, Union soaked up the opposition with a 1-0 win over Casteton. The team was handed their first loss on Friday when strong Division II Oneonta claimed victory with a 3-1 final score. Goalie Nara Sosnoff met the pressure of the game head- on with twelve saves and by allowing only 3 goals despite sixteen Oneonta penalty cor- ners. Monday's team effort against Green Mountain was dominated by Union throughout both halves. The game was played predominantly in front of the Green Mountain goal which gave the Union women several attempts at scoring. Coach Morrison felt that this was the first game of the season th~at the team showed their aggressiveness in the scoring circle. Holly Howard put Union on the scoreboard at 7:40. Four minutes later another Howard goal with an assist by Deb Downey brought the score to 2- 0. Union took advantage of Green Mountain's sloppy stick- work and positioning by planting a third goal in the cage with a drive by Ellen Heininger and the assist by sophomore Mona Klepp. At halftime, the Union women were leading 3-0 with nineteen shots on goal. Union wasted little time in scoring when the second half opened. Ms. Heininger scored two minutes into the half and completed her- hat trick five minutes later with an assist by Buthaina Shukri. The strong defensive stick- work of sophomore Lisa Stern kept the ball in front of the 50 yard line for the majority of t~e game. When Green Muuntam had possession of the ball during penalty corners, they were unable to score. Buthaina Shukriscored the final goal on a penalty corner drive assisted by Deb Downey at 31:15. Union got a stellar performance from Deb Downey who displayed ex- ceptional stickwork and applied much pressure at the goal cage. Ms. Morrison was pleased with the dynamic performances of the forwards and links I halfbacks J. She felt that the team communicated well on the field and was impressed by their· strong amount of shots on goal. Sports photographers are needed immediately. lf#o you possess photo skills and sports knowledge, please contact Mark Palomba or Rich Hope at 382-9029. The Junior Varsity team played a fast Siena game last Monday, resulting in a 3-1 Siena victory. Though the first half was Siena dominated, by the second half the Union women had come alive and played an evenly matched game. Holly Howard scored the only Union goal with 30 seconds left in the first half. Coach Deb Clarke believes that the young team improves With every single game and considering that the Union women were playing against a Varsity squad, they displayed their skills very well. Also, anyone intere.sted in reporting women's sports, please contact Barb at 370·6863. Vol. 1 ~ ~ c ~ . :: ~~q. \ .., - T1 by a I Amid celebr; inaugm Morris Presidt Board nual fa busine, nature, reports ongoin~ ,,. Dr. meetinJ noting· of pridt on cam type of He corr has rt leavin1 divisiOI was re~ strengt The l schedu tivitie: alumn: acquaiJ College priorit3 the inc the en• for the: handw for pub campai In a1 was inJ Progra servati way 1 progra installB a nurr dorms; windm lightin~ step in to red througl saving plemen of this takepl; next f• subjec prover authori upto$6 roofs o facilit; modifi structu requir regula cessibf the ha1 The mittee reports Dave 'i

Vol. 109, No. 5 • •• Founded at ,Union College 18__77 Schenectady, New York Thursday, Oct. 18, 1979 ·Morris Inaugurated by DOUG ROSENFELD The clouds threatened rain on last Saturday· morning, Oct. 13, as guests filed into Memorial Chapel to witness the inauguration of Dr. John Selwyn Morris . as sixteenth President of Union College and tenth Chancellor of Union University. . ~ While Hugh Allen Wilson, Professor of Music, began to play the Academic Processional on the organ, the inaugural procession, which had begun its march at the Science and Engineering Building, ap- peared at the Chapel doors. Preceded by the Marshal, William C. Stone, professor of mathematics, and a colorful pair of bagpipe-wielding troops from the Schenectady Pipe Band, the men and women in the processional, most attired in academic dress, walked two abreast to their seats in front -of the stage. The inaugural party, at the rear of the procession, went dir_ectly to the stage. referred to Morris as \a man worthy to lead and worthy of a ceremony like this\ and declared the inauguration day to be one of \great hope and optimism for us all.\ Trustee·s Face Iss-ues When everyone was seated, the Chapel was filled nearly to capacity. Among those in at- tendance were 116 delegates from other colleges and universities, the deans and top- level administrators of Union College, the deans of Union University, members of Union's Board of Trustees, the Board of Governors o.f Union University, and representatives from Union's student body, Alumni Council, and Greek societies. Greetings were also offered to Morris by various represen- tatives of the Union community, Union University, the State Regents, and sister institutions. The President of · Union's Student Forum, Mr. Kenneth Plumb, expressed his \feeling of deep confidence and op- timism for the future. The time has come,\ Plumb remarked, \to put troubled times behind us\ and to start a \new era\ to be ''marked by cooperation and harmony.\ Representing . Union Alumni was Francis R. Taormina, Class of 1950, a former president of the Ahunni Council. He claimed to \speak for the 18,000 people who call them- selves alumni of Union College\ and who \share with you (Dr. Morris) our hopes for the future.\ by MARK BURNETT and ED LONERGAN Amid the anticipation and celebration preceding the inauguration of John Selwyn Morris as the sixteenth President of Union College, the Board of Trustees held its an• nual fall (meeting. Most of the business was of a routine nature, consisting mostly ·of reports, by administrators, of ongoing projects. . Dr. Morris opened the meeting with· a few comments noting the optimism and sense of pride in the college prevalent on campus, and he outlined the type of Presidency he envisions .. He commented that the college has returned to normalcy, leaving the problems·· and divisions of the past behind, and was ready to move ahead with strength. The President faces a heavy schedule of on-campus ac- tivities and meetings with alumni groups to further acquaint himself with the Union College community. A major priority for the fall is to sustain the increase in momentum for the endowment drive. Monies for the nucleus fund should be in hand. well before the April date for public announcement of the campaign. · In another area, the Board was informed that the \Pilot'' Program of the energy con- servation project is well on its way to completion. Th~s program, encompassing the installation of attic insulation in a number of down campus dorms and the addition of storm windows and fluorescent lighting in West is but the first step in a campus-wide program to reduce fuel consumption through a variety of energy- saving means. The im- plementation of the remair1der of this program is expected to take place over the period of the next few years. Also on the subject of building im- provements, the Board authorized the expenditure of up to $60,000 for the repair or the roofs on the gym and the Arts facility and $120,000 for modifications on campus structures in order to meet the requirements of a Federal regulation concerning ac- cessibility of public buildings to the handicapped. The Student Affairs Com- mittee meetings consisted o£ reports by Angelo Mazzone and Dave Wood on their respective responsibilities. It. was noted that the college now operates all the food servi-ces on campus, including the new Pizza Pub in the basement of Carnegie. The Board reviewed the capital improvements that had been rmide to the dining facilities over the summer and was in- formed that this was a first step in replacing a large amount of antiquated equipment. Other maintenance problems mentioned that raised a great deal of Trustee concern were certain problems with local sewage lines ~nd the low capacity of the electrical cir- cuits in the South Colonnade which houses Hale House and the Skellar. Overcrowding - of the meal plans was cited. by Mr. Mazzone as a problem that needed to be addressed to prevent attrition in meal plan subscriptions. Some questions were raised as to the present policy of operating the food services as a contribution center. Concerning campus housing, it was reported that despite minor ..improvements in the proliferation of overcrowded rooms this past month, , there are still thirty five-man suites and one triple on campus. In other words, it is expected that 153 students will be in an overcrowded situation for the entire fall term. It was also noted that -thirty students, presently residing off campus, have requested on-campus housing--bringing the total number of students .in need of normal campus housing to 183. On a somewhat brighter note, a number of dorm improvements were also reported. The hallways and stairwells of West, a number of bathrooms and 52 suites in Fox and Davidson received fresh coats of paint this summer. New lounge furniture was purchased for Richmond and North and the furniture previously in these dorms was distributed throughout the campus. When asked about the procedure of replacing lounge furniture, Director of Residence Life Dave Wood pointed out that furniture in the two all-female dorms characteristically receives less abuse than that in the all-male or mixed dorms, thus, when the time comes to replace fur- niture, North and Richmond .receive the new articles and the used but still good furniture is moved to the high wear areas on campus. This procedure ex- tends the usable life of dorm furniture and saves dollars- which are then put to use elsewhere in the dorms. In addition, it was noted that the halls in Richmond and South were carpeted and that closet doors were presently being installed in Richmond, South, and West. In academic matters, the Boa,rd approved a change in Continued on page 13 Following an invocation delivered by the Rev. J. Dean Dykstra, pastor of the First Reformed Church of Schenectady, Dr. Richard G. Day, chairman of the Board of Trustees, briefly welcomed Dr. Morris to his new office. Day Forum Meets Ms. Ruth Anne Evans, Assistant Director of Schaffer Library, spoke on behalf of the faculty of Union College. She drew laughter from the crowd as she chided that \no one member of the college should claim to represent the faculty.\ But while the faculty might appear divisive, Evans con- tinued, it is because they tend to \debate about the means, not The ends.\ She called upon the college community to \never doubt our common goal,\ which is \educational excellence.\ by ANDREW WISOFF Early_Monday evening, the Student Forum met for the sixth time this term. Among the issues discussed were the new library' hours, a potential safety problem in the West College Dining Hall, 'and the most recent meeting of the Colleg~ Gov·ernance Drafting Com- mittee. Ken Plumb reported to the Forum about a meeting which he and the Forum Secretary had had with Jean Pellitiere on Monday, October 8th. It was learned that the Head Librarian was willing to revert back to the previous library hours, if a majority of students desired such a change. Presently, the library is being closed on Friday evenings in order to provide additional hours during tenth and finals weeks. In a series of related discussions and votes, the Forwn decided its own view of the library hours change, and how student opinion on the question should he gathered. Some members, however, would have preferred not to poll the student body, but rather deal with the isaue directly. In deciding how to poll the studentbody, all members were confident in Rich Budd's ability to organize either a mailbox survey or a referendum con- ducted at a table outside Car- _negie. Rich has been ComB missioner of the Elections Committee for the past two years. It was decided by a 6-4 vote (with one abstention) that the Elections Committee would conduct a campus-wide mailbox survey offering students a choice:between the new and the old hours. Following the library hours discussion, Sophomore Class Representative Will Lloyd presented the Student Forum with a resolution requesting the administration to immediately install emergency exit hard- ware on the South doors of West College Dining Hall. Until Tuesday morning, the only second method of egress from the dining facility was per- manently locked, because it was broken. This presented a very serious safety violation. Concerning College Gover- nance, President Plumb communicated some recent decisions of the Governance 'Drafting Committee. Ken. is currently serving as the Student Body· Representative to that committee. The committee decided to accept three of the Student Forum amendments to the College Governance Report as friendly, and labeled the remaining three as unfriendly. Friendly amendments will not be voted on at the General Faculty meeting (October 30th) unless th_ey are challenged as being unfriendly. The three unfriendly amendments will be voted on by the Faculty. The next Forum meeting will be held Monday night, October 22nd, at 7:00 p.m. Richard J. Bartle.tt, a dean of Albany Law Scho61, offered a welcome to the new president and chancellor. He referred to Union University as a \loose association among member institutions,\ and recom- mended that Morris \explore how to more fully use the membership in the future.\ The Hon. Laura Bradley Chodos, a regent from the Regents of the University of the State of New York, expressed her organization's \wish to offer our president of Union great good wishes as he begins his important work.\ . As the representative for Union's sister institutions, William F. Kahl, president of Russell Sage College, made reference to the role of modern college presidents as being one of much conflict. \The truth is that tlre tone and style of a university always depends on the president,\ Kahl said, as they \help to mold the shape of things to come.\ He drew laughter from the crowd as he _ Continued on page 10 • ~!g'~•nit T~x 'Su.rvey..-p,. s _ •Jo\b ·Merkefi;>f~r '8,E.ls-p. 5 .~-~-:::~L>:, /> . ____ ·: _.:,:.· -=--~':;·._~-~--... -::.. - ____ ,,~:::;:.-.-· ·:··- 7~..:-· ·.: ;:, •Morris .l\'a\fgJJration Speech-p. a :. ~;·•,a;JRI:~·utl·· · tuJl~r¥iew-:.;p~ 9 • ;~hiEJ~tl'«i~P~ , l~ ...

• Page 2 Qionrnr Editors-in-Chief .. Doug Rosenfeld Sara Simmons News Editor Paul Feinsot · Features Editors Donna Creeley Sue Barnhart' Layout Editors Rachel Mandel Danny Wojnilower Sports Editor · Mark Palomba Photo Editor Pat Wright. Assistant Men'sSports Editor Richllop~ Women's Sports Editor Barb Plotkin Arts Editors Steve Monosson, Cindy Aranow Calendar Ellen Berger, Maria Manfredonia PhotoStaft Jeff Winter, Jeff Steinberg· Steven Krisky, Beth Meyer Layout Staff Fran Teitel, Melissa Gold, Darren Saunders Copy Editor Ellen Van Dyke Classifieds Roberta Moss Staff Jill Brice, Ellen Rubin, Brian Shea,· Business Manager Marla Band, Karen Covey Carole Reinig Subscriptions Martha Rubenstein, Scott Witkin, Ellen Holtzman CONCORDIENSIS is published every Thursday by the student body of Union College, Carnegie Hall, Schenectady, New York, 12308; Publications Office: Susquehanna Publications, Inc., 8 1 /2 Reynolds Ave., Oneonta, New York 13820, (607) 432-6737. Entered in the Schenectady Post Office as third class matter. Subscription rate: 35 cents per copy, $10 per year, delivered anywhere in the United States. Subscribe to CONCORDIENSIS Parents, Alumni, Friends $10 yearly Clip the coupon below and return to Concordiensis, Box 2517, Union College, Schenectady, NY 12308 ----------------------------- ...... I Name I I ..................................................................................................... I .. : Street ................................................................................................... l I City State Zip 1 I ······· ...................................... ~ ................................. - ........ - .......... ! L----------------------- . I ------- Viewpoint: Liberal Learning by Andrew Tallmer, a serious student, class of 1980 (or so we hope) If it were not for Liberal Learning, Union College as L. know it would not be and could not be what it is. Liberal Learning I feel is very well necessary because we all need to diversify our skills and also to learn about all these different parts of learning fields. I say thank God for liberal learning and here I am speaking of my t, A\ course I took freshman year I would not be able to write li:Re this clearly. I say thank God for what Professor Nichols said last week about liberal learning that it is a worthwhile thing and I say thank God for the people who thought of the worthwhile program as Professor Nichols says it is. If it were not for liberal learning I could not go to the placement office and say hey placement office I took \Stereos TV's and Electronics\ with a Professor who is an engineer and now I want to work as an EE for ICM starting at a salary to agree with the style of my life. I say thank God for the added liberal learning courses for next term. I say thank God that we can pick up stuff about those courses from the Maintenance department. If I may let me tell you about some of these new' courses as it says so in the brochtire, that by the way can be picked up at Maintenance. New LL courses for WT at UC: 1) \Hackensack.\ Professor Firston explores dirt, .pollution, and Lou Costello. 2) \Housing- what it means, what it does, what it is\ - Professor Splinter - We'll take you \inside\ one of the college's most respected offices. Final examination will include: turning a key in a lock; and, also, fitting sixteen people tn a four-man suite. 3) Life - Professor Philip Cloth - (permission of God required) What is life? What does it mean? Final Exam. 4) \Extinguistics\ Professor Belson - Explores fire ex- tinguishers. Reveals Freud's view of fire extinguishers. Talks about fines. (cross-listed with Housing Office) 5) ''The Pope, the Papacy and ltbe People\ - Professor Patnck \ Probes papal politics, peoples perception of the Pope, and Puskin. Final exam will include an e~say on the Pope's famous phrase he uttered in Chicago \Whatever is, is right.\ 6) \Poor Man, Rich Man: Getting Rich at Food Services\ Professor Celery- $1.25 worth of lectures to be included in the course. 7) \Wby Not the Best\ Details one man's attempt to be elected to the city council. Making campaign buttons to be an in- tegral part of the course. So now we have even· more in which to choose what we want to take. Long live liberal learning. It's great, it's stimulating, it's superfluous. P. S. I am not the Geek. The Geek may be reache'd, care of the fourth-fifth, at the Albany School for Retired English majors (he's been put out to Louie Pasture). · Huntley Lane Prior to the meeting of the Board of Trustees, a small ceremony was held to dedicate Huntley Lane. The ceremony, which was held in the confines of the Trustees' meeting because of bad weather, was a nice tribute to the Provost who has dedicated so much of his time and effort to the beautification of the campus. President Morris opened the ceremony with a few words expressing Dr. Huntley's \love · for the physical appearance of the campus,\ citing his tree planting campaign· as an isolated example. He further praised the dedication of . Trustee Jerry Newmann, chairman of the Buildings, Grounds~ and Equipment Committee of the Board, for his cooperation in translating Dr. Huntley's ideas into action. Mr. Newmann was the next speaker and conveyed the thanks of the Trustees and Alumni of the college to the Provost for his efforts, foresightedness, and care in insuring that Union remain one of the prettiest campuses in the country. Provost Huntley rose to a standing ovation to remark on the satisfaction he has fel£ in seeing his ideas become reality. Of all that has happened during Dr. Huntley's tenure at the college, he cited the preser~ vation of the beauty of the campus as one of the most important. The dedication of the lane to Huntley is a showing of ap- preciation by 'the college for his wm·k in preserving the beauty of the campus, for his ex- cellence as a teacher, and for his many years of service to the · college. - A yea a ski con' stuc que, If 3 und per tivi1 be~ Tl grm aUoc ex a< the prO\ whe indi Elir. 1. 2 . 3. 4. 5. 6. 7. 8 .. 9. Ol. 11. 12. 13. 14. 15. 16. 17. 1 B. 19. 20. 2·1. 22. 23. 24. 25. 26. 27. 28. 2'/. 30. 31. 32. 33. ~4. 35. 36. 37. 38. 39. 40. 41. 42. 43.

Page 2 OONOO~DIENSIS, October 18, 1979 a.rnnrnr Editors-in-Chief News Editor Features Editors Layout Editors Sports Editor Photo Editor Assistant Men's Sports Editor Women's Soorts Editor Arts Editors Calendar PhotoStaft Doug Rosenfeld Sara Simmons Paul Feinsot Donna Creeley Sue Barnhart Rachel Mandel Danny Wojnilower Mark Palomba. Layout Staff Copy Editor Classifieds Staff Business Manager Subscriptions Pat Wright lUchHope Barb Plotkin Steve Monosson, Cindy Aranow Ellen Berger, Maria Manfredonia Jeff Winter, Jeff Steinberg Steven Krisky, Beth Meyer : Fran Teitel, Melissa Gold, Darren Saunders Ellen Van Dyke Roberta Moss Jill Brice, Ellen Rubin, Brian Shea, Marla Band, Karen Covey. Carole Reinig Martha Rubenstein, Scott Witkin, Ellen Holtzman · CONCORDIENSIS is published every Thursday by the student · body of Union College, Carnegie HaU, Schenectady, New York, 12308· Publications Office: Susquehanna Publications, Inc., 8¥2 Reyn~ldsAve., Oneonta, New York 13820, (607) 432-6737. Ente~e~ m the Schenectady Post Office as third class matter. Subscnptwn · rate: 35 cents per copy, $10 per year, delivered anywhere in the United States. Subscri,be to CONCORDIENSIS Parents, Alumni, Friends $10 yearly Clip the coupon below and return to Concordiensis, Box 2517, Union College, Schenectady, NY 1 2308 ~------------------------~---- I I I I I I Name ................................................................................................... : Street .................................................................................................. , l Cit State Zip 1 I I --------------------------------- Y ... ................................. , ......... , ........ ,. ................... ·~·- ,. ..... - .. ,. ..... 'I Viewpoint: Liberal Learning by Andrew Tallmer, a serious student, class of 1980 (or so we hope) If it were not for Liberal Learning, Union College as I. know it would not be and could not be what it is. Liberal Learning I feel is very well necessary because we all need to diversify our skills and also to learn about all these different parts of learning fields. I say thank God for liberal learning and here I am speaking of my r.A\ course I took freshman year I would not be able to write like this clearly. I say thank God for what Professor Nichols said last week about liberal learning that it is a worthwhile thing and I say thank God for the people who thought of the worthwhile program as Professor Nichols says it is. If it were not for liberal learning I could not go to the placement office and say hey placement office I took \Stereos TV's and Electronics\ with a Professor who is an engineer and now I want to work as an EE for ICM starting at a salary to agree with the style of my life. I say thank God for the added liberal learning courses for next term. I say thank God that we can pick up stuff about those courses from the Maintenance department. If r may let me tell you about some of these new courses as it says so in the brochure, that by the way can be picked up at Maintenance. New LL courses for WT at UC: 1) \Hackensack.\ Professor Firston - explores dirt, pollution, and Lou Costello. 2) \Housing- what it means, what it does, what it is\ - Professor Splinter - We'll take you \inside\ one of the college's most respected offices. Final examination will include: turning a key in a lock; and, also, fitting sixteen people in a four-man suite. 3) Life - Professor Philip Cloth - r permission of God required) What is life? What does it mean? Final Exam. 4) \ExtinguisHes\ Professor Belson - Explores fire ex- tinguishers. Reveals Freud's view of fire e:rtinguishers. Talks about fines. (cross-listed with Housing Office) 5) \The Pope, the Papacy and :the People\ - Professor Patrick Probes papal politics, people's perception of the Pope, and Puskin. Final exam will include an essay on the Pope's famous phrase he uttered in Chicago \Whatever is, is right.\ 6 l \Poor Man, Rich Man: Getting Rich at Food Services\ Professor Celery -$1.25 worth of lectures to be included in the course. 7) \Why Not the Best\ Details one man's attempt to be elected to the city council. Making campaign buttons to be an in- tegral part of the course. So now we have even more in which to choose what we want to take. Long live liberal learning. It's great, it's stimulating, it's superfluous. P. S. I am not the Geek. The Geek may be reached, care of the fourth-fifth, at the Albany School for Retired English majors (he's been put out to Louie Pasture). • •••· .. ,.w.~... .. • • Letters Personal ·Defense Dear Editor: · Ree-Ently it has come to my attEntion that a few people feel the-y have been o.ffended by some personals that have ap- peare<iinthepaper. I would like toap()logize to all those who feel that they have been insulted. HoV!ever, I would also lik.e to explain nw position. I do not have the slightest intention of insulting anybody. Since all pers<mals are submitted anony-mously, I have no ,i~ea wh~ writes them, and in most cases,. I don't know to wlrom the:y are written. M.ore im~ ,por-tantly, it is often very dif~ ficlllt for me to distinguish l:letwe~n insulting material and sometbing that is just a private jolt.~ and perfectly harmless .. Therefore, to avoid this sort of situation in the future, do not use tl!:e personals column as a Inecans to insult others. Please do not submit any personals that are offensive in any way to anyonoe. Be warned- if this does not stop, it will be necessary to omit the personals from the paper entirely. . . 1 Smcere y, Roberta Moss Classifieds. Editor Alpha Phi ()mega To the Editor: t'l1~:te will be a meeting at 6p.t.ll,{)l1 'fuesday,October 23, in the Hale Bouse upper lounge for stu;tfents interested in joining Alpha Phi Omega, the National ServiceFt·aternity. Members of B. P. I.'s Epsilon Zeta chapter will be there to answer questi()ns and to help sutdents forn, a chapter at Union College. AJpha Phi Omega has · chapters located Qn more than 350 college campuses tbrouglloltt the country. Its . puJ:1loSe is to provide service to the campus, community, and nation, and to promote friend- ship alld develop leadership in its members. Membership in Alpl!a Phi Omega is open to both rnen and women. Because Barker,. to which we committed $1000 and 700 manhours. We sponsor a loc.al Scout troop, and we run a Swimoree for Boy Scouts and Cub Scouts each year. We are currently planning a Camporee for the Uncle Sam· Scout Council. We have built three playgr(}und sites in the married student housing area at R. P. I., and we participate in the Troy Tim~s Record's Clothe-a-Child program. Other personal contact projects have incLuded outings with kids, Christmas parties at nursing homes, and an R. P. I. open house for local high school students. We also do many small weekend projects for community groups that need help. Even though Alpha Phi . Omega is not a social fraternity, it has formal rituals and traditions and it strives to maintain a spirit of Brotherhood among its members. Our chapter has a social program that includes parties~ movie ru~, formal dinners, intramural teams, .etc. We try to promote friendship while providing service to others. One of our favorite projects is the overnighter held each semester at a Scout camp. Our biannual Meanest Man on Campus contest is another fun project. We recruit professors, Deans, ROTCstaff, and ~oaches to campaign by . pulling outrageously mean stunts. Students vote for their favorite candidates with pennies, and all the proceeds go to a local charity. Our activities in Alpha Phi Omega have added much to our experiences at R. P. J., and we do fill a need on campus and in the Troy community. We would like to invite all interested Union College students to meet with us Tuesday and talk about forming a chapter on this campus. Larry Mandelkehr PrPstdent, Epsilon Zeta Chapter Alpha Phi Omega to. your TVs and stereos is an unfortunate side effect of operating our station. We regret · having caused you any in~ convenience. ' We oolieve that the distur· bance probably occurs at night. After sundQwn is the only time when long-range com· munication becomes feasible. It is only at night when the foreign students in our dub are able to communicate with their home countries. The frequencies that are used for this type of com~· munication are commonly found to cause TVI {Television or radio Interference). In ad- dition, since so many statians are operating dur_ing these hours, on these ·same frequendes, it is necessary to use our higher powered equipment~ which worsens tbe TVI problem. As ·for the location of our antenna, the present location was chosen a number of years ago by College administrative personnel on the basis of in· visibility to the overall campus appearance and the close pr9ximity to the station. There are thousands of student tax dollars, over the years, put into the installation of both the station and the antenna. In order to completely eliminate all interference, the station and antenna would have to be relocated to an area such that no residence would be within .about a 1500' radius. With these facts in mind, it is obvious that relocation is not a practical solution. We have implemented a few · measures to help alleviate the situation. First, a filter has been installed to cut out some in~ terfere.nce causing signals. Second, a policy of never using more power than absolutely necessary · is now being ob~ served by all club members. Finally, communications at night will be limited to· only what is necessary and kept as brief as possible. Amateur Radio exists for public service alone. In this spirit, we will try to do all that is possible to come to terms with · the interference problem. If you feel that this situation needs further discussion, feel free to WRUC Answers , contact me at X6523, or at the station • X6157. Sincerely, Charlie Oppenheimer • PRES, W2UC · We're Here! To the Editors: Alpil.a Phi Omega is .a service Dear Ham Plagued, fraternity, its chapters do not Prior to reading last week's maintain houses. Epsilon Zeta (Oct.ll). issue of Concordiensis~ cba:pter does have an office in W2UC (Union College Amateur tbe ·student union at R. P. I., Radio Club) was unaware that frl)rn which we operate a the operation, of our station camptts lost and found and a constituted such a source of use.O book exchange, and discontent for certain residents Please lend me your ears, SQ c<>nduct other business. o· North College. The distur- that I may plead our case: the Some of our recent service bance that we are apparently case of six fantastic characters. projects have included work at causing. is not of . mali~ious Let me begin by rnaking it clear the Troy Boys Club's Camp . intent. Ratber,. tile interference that we are six living charac- ••••••••••llllllllii. •••·•••••••• .. · ters born from the mind of Luigi Huntley Lane Prior to the meeting of the Board of Trustees, a small cereJU()ny was held to dedicate Huntley Lane. The ceremony, which \Nas held in the confines of the Trustees' meeting bee a use of bad weather, was a nice tribute to the Provost who has dedicated so much of his ti.rne and effort to the bealltification of the campus, Presiclent Morris opened the cerernony with a few words expressing Dr. Huntley's \love f()r tile physical appearance of the campus,\ citing his tree planting campaign as an isolated example. He further praised the dedication of Trustee Jerry Newmann, chairm.an of the Buildings, Grouncis, and Equipment Coi!liilittee of the Board, for his coopera.tioll in translating Dr. Huntley's ideas into action. Mr. Newmann was the next speaker and conveyed the thanks of the Trustees and Alumni of the college to the Provost for his efforts, foresightedness, and care in insuring that Union remain one of the prettiest campuses in the country. Provost Huntley rose to a standing ovation to remark on the satisfaction he has felt in seeing his ideas become reality. Of all that has happened during Dr. Huntley's tenure at the college, he cited the preser- vation of the beauty of the campus as one of the most important. The dedication of the lane to Huntley is a showing of ap\ predation by the college for his work in preserving the beauty of the campus, for his ex- cellence as a teacher, and for his many years of service to the college. Pirandello. One i$ born to life in many forms, in many shapes, as tree .• or as stone, as water, as butterfly, ar as woman. So one may also be born a ~haracter in a play. r must reiterate that we are very much alive; but that the author who created us alive no · longer wished, or was no longer able, materially to put us into a work of art. Man and woman live and breatheset our drama· is more real than yt>urs; we will never die; we are fixed in an unchangeable reality. Piran- deUo, the accused, gave life to this drama and deserted us in the midst, as a mother who has abandoned a new born child. As a result of our torment, being driven from his spiritf we are ·fated to walk the earth as ·unrecognized characters. We will plague and haunt his . thoughts until be is ap\ . prehended and forced to pay the price ,for his actions. - A yea ask con StU( que lf1 und per tivi be ' Tl grot ano, exa~ the pro1 whe indi Elir 1 3 6 8 01 11 12 13 14 15 16 17 18 1'1 20 21 22 23 24 15 26 27 28 2'1 30 31 n 33 :4 35 36 37 38. 39 40 41 42 43

OONOOBDIENSIS, October 18, 1979 Pages --STUDENT ACTIVITIES by KEN PLUMB As many of you may remember, last year's Forum distributed a survey asking students to give their input concerning the allocation of their student activities fee. The actual question read: If you are registered as a full*tillle undergraduate at Union you pay $33.00 per tr-imester in required student ac- tivities fees. What do,you think should be done with these fees? The survey then listed all of the groups and organizations which were allocated portions of this fee, noting the exact amount which they received for the year 1979-80. Space was then provided for the participant to state . whether he felt that the budget of each individual group should be: Eliminated, Decreased, Maintained, Increased or Largely Increased. The results of this survey were scheduled to be published in Concordy last spring. However, due to problems with the collection and distribution of th~ .surveys, the final results could not be obtained until this fall. These results are shown in the accompanying chart. A few comments need to be made about this survey in ·order to put the results into proper perspective. First, as a result of various problems, the survey was not distributed to off- campus or commuter students. Second, only approximately 165 surveys were turned in out- of a total distribution of about 1,000. Finally, it should be noted that many students felt that they were so unfamiliar with .some of the organizations that they couid not give knowledgeable responses in manv cases. These results are indeed beneficial to the extent that they do provide the 1978-1979 Student Ta.x Survey Organiza.tion, Club or Comm1ttee BUDGET LARGE 1979-80 ELIMINATE DECREASE MAINTAIN INCREASE INCREASE I. AMNI;STY S 715.00 INTERNATIONAl 2 · B'IG BROTHER- 2000.00 BIG SISTER 3. BIOLOGY 705.00 , CLUB 4. BLACK STU DE NT 7,950.00 ALLIANCE 5 .. CABARET 1,785.00 6. CHEMISTRY 123.00 CLUB 7. CHINESE STU-DENi 680.00 ASSOCIATION - 8 . CIRCLE K 530.00 9. COFFEEHOUSE 3.250.00 9 0 13 31 18 29 8 4 01. CONCERT 23,725.00 3 COMMITTEE 11. CONCORDIENSIS 11,827.00 12. CURLING 223.00 14 CLUB 13. ELECTRONIC 543.00 25 MUSIC CLUB 14. FENCING 312.00 16 CLUB 15. FILM 8;900.0Q COMMITTEE 16. FRISBEE · 160.00 -44 CLUB 17. PRE-HEALTH 185.00 19 SOCI:ETY 18. IDOL 5,468.00 8 MAGAZINE 19. INTERNATIONAL . 1.985.00 11 RELATIONS CLUB 20. INTERNATIONAL 3,070.00 7 STUDENTS ASSOC. 2·1. ME.N'S 13,000.00 2 GLEE CLUB 22. MODERN 1,020.00 13 DANCE CLUB 23. MOUNTEBANKS 15,830.00 5 24. OUTING 2.253.00 0 CLUB 25, PHOTO 1..000.00 12 SOCIETY 26, POLITICAL 2,395.00 FORUM 27, PR E·LAW 200.00 21 SOCIETY 28. RUGBY 1.028.00 CLUB 29. SAILILG 75.00 29 CLUB 30. SKI 1,501.00 6 CLUB 31. SOCIAL 15,863.00 2 COMMITTEE 32. SPEAKERS 20,35().00 3 FORUM 33. · STONE BOAT 851.00 24 CLUB . ~4. STUDENT ENV 355.00 14 ALLIANCE 35. TABLE TENNIS .574.00 32 CLUB 36. UNION 8,710.00 BOOK 37. UNION JAZZ 900.00 5 ENSEMBLE 38~ VOLLEYBALL 410.00 21 39. WHEN DIPLOMACY 143.00 FAILS 54 40. WOMEN'S 6,880.00 GLEE CLUB 41. WOMEN'S 625.00 NETWORK 42. WRUC 17,865.00 43, W2UC 947.00 10 33 4 12 36 6 54 92 4 11 45 23 24 22 12 16 70 44 6 42 18 87 40 .56 30 45 18 24 17 44 36 14 22 11 30 47 26 91 11 6 59 30 15 32 8 38 ., ·100 97 44 71 96 76 109 99 65 100 83 65 88 62 72 115 54 91 81 113 86 89 105 99 88 100 97 50 107 81 86 83 90 31 100 6~ 77 66 8.5 81 88 96 One quest!_on: Would you be in .favor of the allocation oi student ta)( funds to dormitories and fraternities and sororities for social functions open to the campus? YES 77 NO 64 20 55 83 29 11 28 34 57 47 12 8 15 84 16 11 16 11 18 18 40 28 22 20 17 18 33 20 65 38 8 32 8 33 76 5 7 38 20 48 13 2 6 0 6 0 2 18 3 7 0 2 9 2 3 4 5 3 6 6 6 6 9 9 2 4 7 12 0 2 12 17 14 3 Account N.umber ·191 273 -191 202_ 191 261 191 232 191 249 191 250 191 264 191 207 191 209 191 268 191 111 191 271 191-267 191 269 191-248 191 274 no accoun number 191-214 191-216 191-215 191-213 191-242 191-113 191-220 191·222 191-223 191-254 191-258 191-260 191-257 191-225 191-252 191-266 191-238 19i ·247 191-115 191-270 191·'259 191-251 191-247 191-245 191-150 191-228 191-257 191-219 191·227 Forum with some student input con- cerning the allocation of student tax: monies. Although the Tax Committee has completed some of the budgets of these groups for the upcoming year, these budgets must still be approved by the Forum, and it is at this stage where t,hese results can be of some use. If you did not get an opportunity to fill out one of these surveys, or if you are a fre~h­ man who wishes to express an opinion on the allocation of these funds, please do not hesitate to contact any member of the Forum and express your views. These budgets will be reviewed in the weeks ahead. clubs and organizations which have approved constitutions (either by the COC or the Forum) and those which do not. In order to receive student ac- tivities monies, a group should have its eonstitution approved every three years. The next column entitled \Budgeted (Actual) Expenses,\ denotes the amount of money which was budgeted to each group, and directly below in parentheses, the amount that was actually spent. The following column denotes the amount of money that each group estimated it would earn through ticket sales and advertising. Directly below in parentheses is the amount of money that each group did, in fact, return. by ANDREW WISOFF The following charts represent a 1978- 89 \profile\ of all student activities under the purview of the Student Forum. The column entitled Constitutional Status (as of Sept. 1979) denotes those The final colwnn, often referred to as \the bottom line,\ represents what each group estimated its Net Expen- ditures to be, followed underneath in parentheses by what each group's Net Expenditures actually were. 1978-1979 Student Activities Profile Account Description Amnest.y InternatiOnal (Union Chapter) Big Brother- Big Sister Biology Club Black Student Alliance (BSAl Cabaret Chemistry Club Chinese Student Association Circle K Coffeehouse Concert Committee Concordiens is Curl1ng Club Electronic Music Club Fencing - Club Film . Committee Frisbee Club Pre Health Society Idol Magazine International Relations Club International Student's Association Glee Club (Men's Glee Club) Modern Dance Group (Dance Group) Mountebanks Ouling Club · Photo Society (Photography Club) Political Forum (Club) Pre·Law Society Rugby Football Club (See Note Al Sailing Club Ski Club and Ski- Team Social Committee Speakers Fotum Stone Boat Club Student Environmental Alliance (PYEl Table Tennis Club Union Book Union Jazz Ensemble Volleyball When Oip.lomacy Fails Women's Glee Club Women's Caucus (Women's Network) WRUC. (Radio Station) W2UC (Amateur Radio Society) Assn. for Computer Machinists, Inc, NE New York Student Ol'chestra Ensemble STUDENT ACTIVITIES {General Expenses) STUDENT FORUM (General Expenses) Uncorrected Mistakes Constituhonal Status 9-79 Budgeted (Actual) EXPENSES Forum approved . $ 715.00 with funding: 1-2579 (743.58) Constitution pending COC 1.505.00 approval. written 78-79. (6,270.63) Operating without any 1.505.00 recognized constitution (1.024.20) Constitution pending COC 12,450.00 approval. amended 5 28-79 ( 11,596.95) Operating without any 5,285.00 recognized constitution. [5,487.00) Constitution approved by 198.00 COC with funding: 2-18-79 (118.42) Cvnstitution approved by 1,280.00 COC with fundinQ. 2-18-79 (1,237.68) C0nstitut1on approved by COC 590.00 without funding: 4-28-78 (449.05) Operating without any 4,150.00 wrilten constitution. (3,356.88) See Student Forum 53,875.00 By-laws. (27,570.29) Operating without any 18,187.00 recognized constitution. ( 15,724.17) Constitution approved by 463.00 COC with funding: 4-3-78. (468.68) Operating without any 553.00 recognized constitution. (549.60) Cons.titution approved by 312.00 COC w1th funding: 5-1-78. (1,160.00) See Student Forum 18,900.00 By -laws. ( 20,398.00) Forum approved with 160.00 funding: 11-17-76. (380.04) 'Operating without any 185.00 recognized constitution. (no record) Operating without any 5,618.00 recognized constitution (4,416.93) Constitution pending 1.985.00 OK approval: submitted 1-29-79. (2,841.06) Operating without any 4.590.00 recognized constitution. (3,811.64) Constitution on file with 13,000.00 COC. No reference dates. ( 12,566.83) Operating wiihout .any 6,805.00 recognized constitution (9,388.86) Defun·ct as a student activity. 19,530.00 Absorbed bv Arts Dept. (20,034.97) Constitution pending COC 2,403.00 approval: amended 1-79. (.1.883.74) Forum approved with 1,000.00 funding: 1-25-79 (1.368.82) Operating without any 2,395.00 recognized constitution. (2,363.00) Constitution approved by 200.00 COC with funding: 11-9-76. (98.27) Forum apprQved with 1.778.00 funding: 1-25-79. (6,036.00) Operaling without any 75.00 recognized constitution. (75.00) Forum approved with 1,501.00 funding: 1-25·79. (1.981.29) See Student Forum 34,338.00 By-laws (17,291.00) See Student Forum 22,850.00 By-laws. {30,726.11) Forum approv~d with 851.00 funding: 10·23·78. (910.81) Constitution approved with 475.00 funding: 10·23·78. (168.09) Operating without any 574.00 r~cognized constilution. (0) Operating withour any 15,210.00 recognized constltution. (13, 131.01) Constitution pending COC 900.00 approval: submitted 1-5-79 (812.nl Consti.tution approved by 410:00 COC with funding: 2-18·79. ( 176.00) Constitution pending COC 195.00 approval: submitted 4·27·79. (130.07) Constitution on file with 6,880.00 COC. No reference dates. (2,171.73) · Constitution pending COC 825.00 approval~ submitted 3-16·79 (1,071.63) Constitution pending COC 17,867.00 approval: written 3-79. (20,736.78) Constitution pending COC 947.00 approval: written l-6·79. (1,545.23) Constitution approved by COC without funding: 1-25-79. (96.82) Defunct as a student activity. Absorbed by the Arts. Dept. (1,281.33) (7,808.32) (429.66) (1, 118.31) ~ ~ c Budgeted Budget (\Estimated) !Actual) RETURN NET EXPEND. s 0 (0) 800.00 (4,373.00) ' . 800.00 (0 4,500.00 ( 1.437 .68) 3.500.00 (2,976.82) 75.00 (0) 600.00 (0) 60.00 (0) 900.00 (319.06) 30,150.00 (5,366.84) .6,360.00 {5,267,06) 240.00 (280.00) 10.00 (0) 0 (30.00) 10,000.00 (9,422.82) 0 (0) (no record) 150.00 (105.-19) 0 (0) 1,520.00 (494.72) 0 ( 162.88) 5.785.00 (3,767.50) 3,700.00 (J,154.32) 150.00 (349.75) 0 (155.00) 0 (0 0 (0) 750.00 (0) 0 (0) 0 (234.60) 18,4'75.00 (4,098.36) 2,500.00 (3,053.93) 0 (0) 120.00 (43.25) 0 (0) 6,500.00 (5,424.52) 0 (25.00) 0 {0) 52.00 . (0) 0 (247.63) 200.00 (25.00) 0 (483.26) 0 (0) (275.88) (6,012.91) (794.60) s 715.00 (743.58) 705.00 (1,897.63) 705.00. ( 1024.20) 7,950.00 ( 10,159.27) 1.785.00 (2,510.95) 123.00 ( 118 42) 680.00 (1,237.00) 530.00 (449.05) 3,250.00 ( 12,801.82) 23,725.00 (22.203.07) 11,827.00 ( 10,454.11) 223.00 ( 188.68) 543.00 (549.60) 312.00 (1.130.07) 8,900.00 ( 10,975.48) 715.00 (743.00) 185.00 (no record) 5,468.00 (4,311.74) 1,985.00 (2,841.06) 3,070.00 (3,316.92) 13,000.00 ( 11,518.13) 1.020.00 (5,621.36) 15,830.00 ( 16,880,65) 2,253.00 {1,533.99) 1,000.00 ( 1,213.82) • 2,395.00 (2,363.00) 200.00 (98.27) 1.028.00 (6,036.00) 75.00 (75.00) 1,501.00 (1,746.69) 15,863.00 (13,193.56) 20,350.00 (27,672.18) 851.00 (910.81) 355.00 ( 124.84) 574.00 (0) 8,710.00 (7,706.~9) 900.00 (787 .77) 410.00 ( 176.00) 143.00 (130.07) 6,880.00 (1,924.10) 625.00 ( 1046.63) 17.867.00 (20,253.52) 947.00 (1,545.23) (179.06) (1,281.33) (1,795.41) (429.66) (223.71) Carry over from fiscal1977-78 ............................... .$ 16,42(1.23 191,118.00 207,5~.23 203, 1~.23 Budgeted (Actual) EXPENSES Estimated <Actual) RETURN Budgeted !Actual) NET EXPEND. Female Dormitories: 59 responses Male Dormitories: 26 responses Fraternltles.Sororitles: 80 responses Student Activities f~s collected 78·79 ................ .. Total Student Activl.ties monies for 78-79 .......... .. Net totai.Student Activities debits 18·79 .............. . Carry over Into fiscal 1979-®, .............................. . 4,400.00 NOTE A: ln.surance reimbursements are .;'ot shown. $ . 284,038.00 (263,009.63) $ 97,297.00 (59,863.00) $ 186,7.(1.00 (203,146.23)

OONOORDIENSIS, October 18, 19\19 Page 3 -STU DENT ACTIVITIES by KEN PLUMB As maRy of you may remember, last year's Forwn distributed a survey asking students to give their input concerning the allocation of the~r student activities fee. The actual question read: If you are registered as a ~ull-time undergraduate at Union you .pay $33.00 per trimester in required student ac- tivities fees. What do you think should be done with these fees? The survey then listed aU of the groups and organizations which were aUocated portions of this fee, noting the exact amount which they received for the year 1979-80. Space was then provided for the participant to state whether he felt that the budget of each individual group should be: Eliminated, Decreased, Maintained, Increased or Largely Increased. The results of this survey were scheduled to be published in Concordy last spring. However, due to problems with the collection and distribution of the surveys, the final results could not be obtained until this fall. These results are shown in the accompanying chart. A few comments need to be made about this survey in order to pl!lt the results into proper perspective. First, as a result of various problems, the survey was not distributed to off- campus or commuter students. Second, only approximately 165 surveys were turned in out of a total distribution of about 1,000. Finally, it should be noted that many students felt that they were so unfamiliar with .some of the organizations that they could not give knowledgeable responses in manv cases. These results are indeed beneficial to the extent that they do provide the Forum with some student input con- cerning the allocatiof:l of student tax monies. Although the Tax Committee has completed some of the budgets of these groups for the upcoming year, these budgets must still be approved by the Forum, and it is at this stage where these rest!lts can be of some use. If you did not get an opportunity to fill out one of these surveys, or if you are a fresh- man who wishes to express an opinion on the allocation of these funds, please do not hesitate to contact any member of the Forum and express your views. These budgets will be reviewed in the weeks ahead. by ANDREW WISOFF The following charts represent a 1978- 89 \profile\ of all student activities under the purview of the Student Forum. The column entitled Constitutional Status (as of Sept. 1979 J denotes those clubs and organizations which have approved constitutions (either by the COC or the Forum) and those which do not. In order to receive student ac- tivities monies, a group should have its Constitution approved every three years. The next column entitled \Budgeted (Actual) Expenses,\ denotes the amount of money which was budgeted to each group, and directly below in parentheses, the amount that was actually spent. The following column denotes the amount of money that each group estimated it would earn through ticket sales and advertising. Directly below in parentheses is the amount of money that each group did, in fact, return. The final column, often referred to as \the bottom line,\ represents what each group estimated its Net Expen- ditures to be, followed underneath in parentheses by what each group's Net Expenditures actually were. 1978-1979 Student Tax Survey 1978-1979 Student Activities Profile Budgeted Budget 6 8 9 01 II 12 13 14 15 16 17 18 19 20 21 22 24 25 26 27 28 29 30 31 33 35. 37 38. 39 40. 41. 42. 43 Orgamzatoon, Club or Commottee ~UOGET L~RGE 197980 ELIMINATE OECREASEMAINTAIN INCREASE INCREASE AMNESTY S 71500 9 36 100 INTERNATIONAL B'IG BROTHER 1000 00 0 97 BIG SISTER BIOLOGY 705 00 13 54 92 CLUB BLACK STUDENT 7.950 00 31 92 44 ALLIANCE CABARET 1.785 00 7T CHEMISTRY 123 00 18 II 96 CLUB CHINESE STUDENT 68000 29 45 76 AS SOC lA TION CIRCLE K 530 00 8 23 109 COFFEEHOUSE 3.25000 4 24 99 CONCERT 23.725 00 3 22 65 COMMITTEE CONCORDIENSIS 11.827 00 100 CURLING 22300 14 16 83 CLUB ELECTRONIC 543 00 25 70 65 MUSIC CLUB FENCING 312 00 16 44 88 CLUB FILM 8.90000 6 62 COMMITTEE FRISBEE 160 00 44 42 72 CLUB PRE HEALTH 18500 19 18 115 SOCIETY IDOL 5.468 00 8 87 MAGAZINE INTERNATIONAL 1.985 00 II 40 91 RELATIONS CLUB INTERNATIONAL 3.07000 81 STUDENTS ASSOC MEN'S 13,00000 30 113 GLEE CLUB MODERN 1.020 00 13 45 86 DANCE CLUB MOUNTEBANKS T5.83000 5 18 89 OUTING 2.253 00 0 24 105 CLUB PHOTO 1.000 00 T2 17 99 SOCIETY POLITICAL 2.39500 7 44 88 FORUM PRE LAW 200 00 2T 22 TOO SOCIETY RUGBY I.D28 00 8 36 97 CLUB SAILILG 75 00 29 14 50 CLUB SKI 1.501.00 6 22 107 CLUB SOCIAL 15.863.00 2 11 81 COMMITTEE SPEAKERS 20,350.00 3 30 86 FORUM STONE BOAT 851 00 24 47 83 CLUB STUDENT ENV 355.00 T4 26 90 ALLIANCE TABLE TENNIS 574.00 32 91 31 CLUB UNION 8,710 00 11 100 BOOK UNION JAZZ 900.00 5 6 65 ENSEMBLE VOLLEYBALL 410 00 21 59 77 WHEN DIPLOMACY 143.00 54 30 66 FAILS WOMEN'S 6,880.00 TO 15 85 GLEE CLUB WOMEN'S 625.00 33 32 81 NETWO\RK WRUC 17,865.00 8 88 W7UC 947 00 12 38 96 One questoon Would you be in favor of the allocation of student tax funds to dormitories and fraternities and sororoties for social functions open to the campus? YES 77 Female Dormitories: 59 responses Male Dormitories· 26 responses Fraternlties.Sororities: 80 responses NO 64 20 55 6 0 83 6 29 11 0 28 34 2 57 18 47 3 12 8 0 I 5 84 16 II 16 11 18 18 40 28 22 20 17 18 6 33 20 65 38 8 32 8 4 33 76 5 0 2 38 12 20 17 48 14 13 3 AccDunl Number Account Oescroptoon 191 273 Amnesty lnternatoonal I Unoon Chapler) 191 202 Bog Brother - Bog Soster 191 261 Boology Club 191 232 Black Studenl Alloance iBSAl 191 249 Cabaret 191 250 Chemostry Club 191 264 (honese Student Assocoatoon 191 207 Corcle K 191 209 Coffeehouse 191 268 Concert Commotlee 191 1 II Concordoensos 191271 Curlong Club 191 267 E lectronoc Musoc Club 191 269 Fencong Club 191 248 Folm Commottee 191 274 Frosbee Club no accoun Pre Health number Socoety 191214 Idol fo.Aaga z, ne 191 216 lnternatoonal Relafoons Club 191 211 lnternatoonal ')tuden l's A»ocoatoon 191 713 Glee Club <Men·s Glee Club) 191 242 Modern Dance Group I Dance Group) 191 113 Mountebanks 191 220 Outong Club T91 222 Photo Socoety I Photography Club) T91 223 Polofocal Forum (Club) 191 254 Pre Law Society 191 256 Rugby Football Club (See Note A) 191 260 Sailing Club 191 257 Ski Club and Sko Team 191 225 Socoal Commillee 191 252 Speakers Forum 191 266 Stone Boat Club 191 238 Student Environmental Alliance <PYEl 191 247 Table Tennis Club 191 115 Union Book 191 270 Union Jazz Ensemble 191 259 Volleyball 191 251 When Diplomacy Fails 191 247 Women's Glee Club 191 245 Women's Caucus (Women's Network) 191 150 WRUC (Radio Station) 191 228 W2UC (Amateur Radio Society) 191 257 Assn. for Computer Machinists, Inc. 191 219 NE New York Student Orchestra Ensemble 191000 STUDENT ACTIVITIES . (General Expenses) 191·227 STUDENT FORUM (General Expenses) Uncorrec led Mistakes ~ Constotutoonal Status 9 79 Budgeted (Actual) EXPENSES Forum approved S 715 00 woth fundong 1 25 79 !743 58) Conslotuilon pendong COC 1.505 00 aoaroval wro tten 78 79 ( 6.270 63) Opera tong wothout any 1.505 00 recognozed constotutoon ( 1,024 20) Conslotutoon pendmg COC 12,450 00 approval amended 5 28 79 I 11.596 95) Opera tong wothout any 5.285 00 recognozed constotuloon 15.487.00) Conslotutoon approved by 198 00 COC woth fundong 2 T8 79 (118 42) Cvnslotutoon approved by 1,280 00 COC woth fundonQ 218 79 11.23768) Conslo'uloon approved by COC 59000 wothoul tundong 4 28 78 (449 05) Clperatong wolhout any 4.15000 wrotten constotutoon I 3.356 88) See Student Forum 53,87500 By laws 127.57029) Opera tong wothout any 18,187 00 recogn lied constolut oon I 1 ~.72417) Consl•tutoon approved by 463 00 COC woth fun dong 4 3 78 1468 68) Opera tong wothout any 553 00 recognozed constotutoon 1549 60) Constotu'•on approved by 3T2 00 COC woth tunrlong 5 1 78 ( l.lbO ()()) See Student F arum 18,900 00 By Ia ws I 20.398 00) Forum approved wolh 160.00 fundong 11 17 76 1380 04) Operatong w>thout any 185.00 recognozed constotutoon (no record) Clperatong wothout any 5,618 00 recoqnozed constotutoon (4,4T6.93) Conslotutoon pendong 1.985 00 C0C approval submotted 1 29 79 (2.841 06) Opera tong wolhout any 4.590 00 recognozed constotufoon (3,811 64) Constotutoon on tole wolh 13.000 00 COC No reference dates 1 12,56<1 83) Opera long wothoul any 6.805 00 recogn11ed constotutoon (9.388 66) Defunct as a student actovoly 19.530 00 Absorbed bv Arts Deot. 120,034.97) Constiluloon pending COC 2,403.00 approval amended 1 79. ( 1.883.74) Forum approved wolh 1.000.00 fund•ng 1 25 79 ( 1,368.82) Operating wothout any 2,395.00 recognized constitution (2,363 OOJ Constolulion approved by 200.00 COC woth funding 11 9-76. (98.27) Forum approved with 1.778 00 fundong 1 25 79. (6.036.00) Operating without any 75.00 recognized constitution. (75.00) Forum approved with 1.501.00 funding 1·25· 79. ( 1.981.29) See Student Forum 34,338.00 By laws ( 17,291.00) See Student F arum 22.850.00 By laws. (30,726.11 J Forum approved with 851.00 funding 10-23-78. (910.81) Constitution approved with 475.00 funding: 10-23·78. (168.09) Operating without any 574.00 recognized constitution. (0) Operating withour any 15,210.00 recognized constitution. ( 13,131.01) Constitution pending COC 900.00 approval: submitted 15·79 (812.77) Constitution approved by 410~00 COC with funding: 2·18· 79. ( 176.00) Constitution pending COC 195.00 approval: submitted 4·27-79. I 130.07) Constitution on file with 6,880.00 CO C. No reference dates. (2, 171.73) Constitution pending COC 825.00 approval: submitted 316-79 (1,071.63) Constilulion pending COC 17,867.00 approval: written 3-79. (20,736.78) Consti tulion pending COC 947.00 approval: written 1·6·79. ( 1.545.23) Constitution approved by COC without funding: 1·25·79. (96.82) Defunct as a student activity. Absorbed by the Arts. Dept. ( 1.281.33) ( 7,808.32) (429.66) ( 1,118.31) Carry over from flscal1977· 78 .............................. .$ 16,428.23 191.118.00 207,546.23 203,146.23 Budgeted (Actual) EXPENSES Student Activities fees collected 78-79 ............... h. Total Student Activities monies for 79.79 ........... . Net total-Student Activities debits 78-79 .............. . Carry over into fiscal 1979·80 ............................... . 4,400.00 NOTE A: Insurance reimbursements are not shown. $ 284,038.00 (263.009.63) (Estimated l ( Actua ll RETURN NET EXPEND $ 0 (0) 800 00 (4,373 00) 800.00 (0 4,500.00 ( 1,437 681 3,500.00 (2.976 82) 75 00 (0) 60000 (0) 60.00 (0) 900 00 (319 06) 30,150 00 (5.3<>6.84) 6, 360 00 I 5.267 06l 240.00 1280 00) 10.00 (0) 0 (30.00) 10,000.00 19.422 82) 0 (0) (no record) 150 00 I 105 191 0 (0) 1,520.00 ( 494 72) 0 ( 162 88) 5.785 00 (3,767 50) 3.700 00 (3. 154.32) 150.00 (349.75) 0 (155.00) 0 10 0 (0) 750.00 (0) 0 (OJ 0 (234.60) 18,475.00 (4,098.36) 2.500.00 13.053.93) 0 (0) 120.00 (43.25) 0 (0) 6,500.00 (5,424.52) 0 (25.00) 0 (OJ 52.00 (0) 0 (247.63) 200.00 (25.00) 0 (483.26) 0 (0) (27588) (6,012.91) ( 794.60) Estimated (Actual) RETURN $ 97,297.00 (59,863.00) s 71500 (743 58) 705 00 { 1,897 63) 705 00 (1024 20) 7,950.00 I 10,159.27) 1.785 00 12.5T0.95) 123.00 ( 118 42) 680 00 11.237 00) 530.00 { 449 05) 3.250 00 I 12.801 .82) 23.725.00 122.203.07) 11,827 00 ( 10,454.11) 223.00 ( 188 68) 543 !)() (549 60) 312 00 I I, 130.07) 8.900.00 ( 10,975 48) 715.00 ( 7.43.00) 185.00 (no record) 5,468 00 (4,311 74) 1,985.00 ( 2,841 .06) 3,070.00 (3.316 92) 13.000 ()() I 11.518.13) 1.020.00 (5.621.36) 15,830.00 ( 16,880 65) 2.253.00 ( 1 ,533.99) 1,000.00 ( 1.213 81) 2.395.00 (2.363.00) 200.00 (98.27) 1,1)28.00 (6,036.00) 75.00 (75.00) 1,501.00 ( 1 ,746.69) 15,863.00 (13,193.56) 20.350.00 (27.672.18) 851.00 (910.81) 355.00 (124.84) 574.00 (0) 8,710.00 (7,706 49) 900.00 (787.77) 410.00 (176.00) 143.00 (130.07) 6,880.00 (1,924.10) 625.00 ( 1046.63) 11.861 00 (20.253 52) 947.00 ( 1.545 231 1179 06) ( 1.281 33) ( 1.795 41) (429.66) (223 71) Budgeted (Actual) NET EXPEND. $ 186,741.00 (203,146.23)

OONOORDIENSIS~ Octobe·r 18, 1919 Warde Chairs EPC by Roy Jackson The Educational Policy Commitee ( E PC) recently elected Professor Anton Warde of the department of modern languages as its chairman. The EPC formulates .>olicies and plans with respect to matters of educational · policy and curriculum. The committee also has the responsibility to encourage and to approve or disapprove potential new programs within the college curriculum. The members of the EPC are Dean Brownlee., Professors Warde ( chairmau), SchneHer, Wilson, Milillo, Lambert; and Messrs. M. Arato, A. Mitchell, and· S. Auerbach. progress is being made to Implement some of these changes. Wood On Nov~ Bal:lot The EPC has been meeting to discuss some of the important issues that were left from last year's sessions: a proposal from the Athletic Committee regarding a requirement .of physical education; a formal study of resources and viabilities .of departmental and interdepartmental programs; continuing consideration of the academic advising system, including a posstble re- subrnission of a proposal to the Senate. The committee proceeded to discuss the need to revive the Subcommittee on Advising and agreed it was not yet needed. The committee then turned to the question @f an athletic requirement, as proposed in the report of the .Athletic CQm.- mittee {May, 1979) and d,iscussed at the preceding meeting of EPC. With regard to the requirement .in physical education there was a discussion assessing the physiological effects of such a program, the inadequate facilities available, the·possible reaction of prospective students to the requirement, the ,suc- cessful program of voluntary athletics, and the proposed budget, which the :EPC feels is too low. The committee finally defeated the proposal for the physical education program. by Doug Rosenfeld On November 6, when elec- tions are held to appoint new members to the Schenectady County Board ·Of Respresen- tatives, there will be on the ballot at least one name with which nearly every member of the Union community is familiar. Mr. Clifford Wood, UColl'sDirector of Security and Safety, is running for a spot as representative in District 2, an area which contains seven wards and, according to Wood, approximately 16,000 people. Wood, who has been Security Director at Union for five years, is a 26-year veteran of the Schenectady Police Depart- ment where, for a while, he was Chief of Detectives. He is running on a Republican Conservative ticket with Frank R. Simboli, an alUIIltlus of ~ Union. The representative position, which involves a four-year term of service, is a \part-time type of elected position which is ~alarie~. but not highly salaried,\ Wood: said. The salary of \around $4,000\ is negligible, according to Wood, who went on to say that ''bv the time you finish your campaigning,you're $4,000 in debt.\ The part-time (i. e., once:..a-week meetings) nature of the office of representative will make it possible for Wood to continue tn his present em- ployment at Union. In refetence to his qualifications, Wood claims, \my years of public service, of making peoples' problems my problems, qualifies me. I think I can do a good job.\ He went on to say that he \wotlld vote for programs to benef(t the most people possible,\ and was adamant in his statement that \If I have something which I think will be the most beneficial, I will go for it.\ Wood sees as essential the need to make clear his stands on pertinent issues since, he ob- serves, \people today vote according to the candidates, while they used to vote ac- cording to party.\ Among the issues he perceives to be most important in the upcoming election is the right of home rule, which would give Schenectady County \more to say about our own affairs.\ Wood also cited as a crucial issue the need for \greater aid to education at all h~vels,\ and expressed dismay over the fact Commentary: that \large amounts of money from legalized gambling were supposed to go to education and have not.\ Wood claims to have been ''endorsed by the Republican and Conservative parties\ and has been campaigning since receiving :the nomination last June. Victory for himself is predicted by Wood as he foresees an all-around \good election\year for the Republican government.\ Although he feels he may split the conservative vote with a democratic op- ponent, he feels that a Duci mayoral victory will ensure other Republican victories. Incumbent mayor Duci is responsible for returning \the strong mayor type of govern- ment to office this year\ as a result of referendums which favored such a move. Wood has enjoyed immensely the campaigning process. \You meet so many nice people,\ he says. \Not one person has slammed a door in my face.'' And he is appreciative of all the Union students who have of- fered to help him with his campaign. Although he has not needed such assistnace to date, he says he will need it desperately during the last two \Yeeks of his campaign. . Since the beginning of this academic year, other items of interest have emerged: problems ,of course scheduling, both in hour-s and days, which ·complicates the use of facilities and promotes contlwts in student schedules;. and con• tinuing disrepair of the physical plant, especially in the academic buildings. The minutes for the ,last meeting of the EPC reflect that There are numerous other items on the EPC's agenda which were briefly mentioned earlier in this article. These items will be discussed at the EPC's next meeting on October 16. \How To Be A Rat\ Clifford Wood operation of the Skellar? Where, these days, are the members of the overseeing Rathskellar Board who should be, if they are not yet, aware of the operating difficulties there? barrassing to do the same to visitors of the college. by The Doctor The Union College Rathskellar should be a place where students can go to buy a meal or snack during the , day and early evening without having to worry about whether or not they will get what they have come for. The Skellar should provide a comfortable and clean environment in which students may take. their meals and enjoy themselves. The Union College Rathskellar sh\'uld be all of these things; it used to be all of them; it is none of them anymore. The Skellar in recent years has suffered from a chronic supply problem-and this year, the problem is worse than ever while no solution seems to be in sight. The menu advertised on the wall at the counter boasts an expanded menu, but that boast is a hollow promise. There is not more to eat at the Skellar this year; there is only more to order. More items on the menu, as it turns out, merely means more items for the workers at the counter to disappoint the customers with: \Yes we have no bananas. Nor do we have roast beef, turkey, ham, rye bread, wheat bread, rolls, lettuce, bacon, etc.'' The list of what is not available at the Skelladm any given day clearly has finally outstripped in length the list of what is available. The standard worker line has had to become: \Hey look, it's (insert day of week). We're always out of (insert item requested) on (insert same day of week as before). The atmosphere of the Skellar is in a shambles as well. The walls, which have not seen a fresh coat of paint in years, are dulled and dirty. The once- painted floor has become, through years of wear, bare concrete. For the tables, which have capacity for about forty people overall, there are only a maximum of fourteen chairs. Of those 26 empty table-spaces only four chairs remain to fill them-and they lay broken in the back room. There are at least four broken booths in the Skellar and, up until a week ago, nails jutted dangerously from some of their broken boards. Restrooms in the Rathskellar are·· so disgusting that they are virtually beyond effective description, but why not try anyway? Both of the toilets are dirty and the rooms· smell more like filthy cattle stalls than public restrooms. The men's room is perpetually blacked out-say, it's a great place \to go\ on campus if you don't mind pissing in the dark. Hopes were high amo~g. the workers at the Skellar at the beginning of the year that the employment of a new, full-time ex:petienced manager for the Skellar would help to ameliorate some of the nagging problems encountered there. Unfortunately, such has not been the case. In light of all of these dif- ficulties with the Skellar. operation, who, we are inclined If all people directly involved in the skellar's operation have not taken notice of the problems there, at least some of the - customers have. Lunch crowds this year seem to have dwin- dled, as many people have been turned off by the Skellar's dingy atmosphere and generally unreliable menu. When prospective applicants come to visit the school and .stop at the Skellar, their looks of -amazed disgust tell it all. It is ·un- fortunate that we must disappoint our own students by subjecting them to what the Skellar food service has become,but it. is just plain em- to ask, is responsible for - or 1:: better yet, who is capable of - .g remedying the situation? Why ~ · does the new Rathskellar ~ ' • \ manager appear to be failing so ~ miserably at his work? Why hasn't Angelo Mazzone, the The recommendations of this article should be clear by now. If they are not, then, for the sake of complete un- derstanding, here they are: 1) , have Angelo Mazzone deci<lie exactly what kind of a dining establishment he wants the -Skellar to be, and follow through to establish and maintain such a place; (2) have the Rathskellar Board meet to make some plans and ap- propriations for necessary repairs and improvements; (3) find someone to manage who can manage the Skellar com- petently. Without some positive ac:- tions, the Union College Rathskellar is bound to remain what it has become: a true \Rat\ in the most negative SElnse of that word. • Director of Food Services, taken a more active role in tbe · The only ham available In the Skellar these days. ( r 1 the bei: nev GrE Pr< .rni1 G of£ hin def her pro nee tior and pro terJ als< Fra G bel: Cot Wh R.Jl s of 1 bas 0 ente1 us, of sid~ fac' reg and the: Ne~ pas insc 80': Re• SUJ.: intE insi the T Ro~ us. WOI bet1 and Ea~ rei~ att~ leg; rel~ tow tim che Sou ar< Re~ den and firs stal ha\ drir T futt to t resi the: maj rna pro 'pur cle1 job: T outl s 1 jot da1 u.: an~ Th Oc die de· de1 PB CA ED

OONOORDIENSIS,. October 18, 19\19 Page 5 Greg Ch~se ·Assumes · .. New CampuS Position , by LYNN GREENBERG . This year the apartment on the· first floor oi Davidson is being occupied by someone in a new position at Union. He is Mr. Greg Chase, the Resident's Program Coordinator.Frate- rnity Affairs Advisor. Greg's job involves a number of different things. A«;:cording to him, he is not bound to any definite job description and is here to serve as an \in house\ professional however he is needed. One of his main func- tions is to work with the RA's and Head RA's with donn programming and in- terpersonal problems. He will also be advising the Inter- Fraternity Counsel. Greg comes to Union after being a graduate student in Counseling at Albany State. While in college, he served as an R.A. and a Head R.A. Since arriving here at the end of August, Greg's job has been basically to take care of all th~ . I maintenance requests on campus. In the Residents Program Coordinator aspect of his job, he works under Mr. Dave Wood, the Director of Resident Life. In his position as Fraternity Affairs Greg works under the Dean of Students. One of his goals in this position is to at~ tract more sororities t() Union. So far he has not done too much with the IFC. So far Grag has not been very visible to students but he hopes that will change soon. He feels his job suffers from not being weill publicized around cam- pus. Within the next few days, he will be opening his office on the first floor of Davidson. Students may feel free to stop by his office with any types of problems from 9-5'. Greg also welcomes anyqne to come by his apartment at night. In response to· the housing at Union, Greg says he was sur- prised by the condition of the dorms. \I went to state schools and by and large the housing _at 80's: Job Outlook by PAUL FEINSOT On January 1 of next year, we enter a new decade. For many of us, this signifies the beginning of our adult lives. In con- sideration of this fact, we are faced with making decisions regarding our futures both in and out of college. With some of these thoughts in mind, The New York Times issued, in this past Sunday's edition, a special insert titled \Careers in the 80's.\ As a \National Recruitment Survey,\ the supplement provides some interesting and possibly helpful, insights into the job market for the coming years. The le~d article; by David E. Rosenbaum, begins by telling us that the chances of finding work as a lawyer, \Will be much better if you avoid California and most of the big cities on the East Coast.\ Mr. Rosenbaum relates that your chances of .attaining employment in the legal profession ''should be relatively (better) in small towns and suburbs.\ He con- tinues, predicting that ar- chetects will find work in the South, and in ~tates without arch ~~tectur a I schools. Registered nurses should be in demand in the \inner cities\ and bartenders should look first, for obvious reasons, in states like North Carolina that have recently liberalized drinking laws.\ The story suggests that-in the future people are going to have to be flexible about where they reside and what occupations they choose. The point is also made that ''college· graduates may be squeezed out of professional and managerial ' pursuits and be forced to take clerical and perhaps blue-collar jobs.\ . The factors affecting the job outlook, as Mr. Rosenbaum mdicates, are: the conditions in business, which will affect job areas which are especially sensitive to general economic conditions; government spending, which if cut, as it is . expected to be, in the areas of space and weapons programs will create a tight jab market for engineers in th.ese fields; consumer tastes, it is believed, will be sending more and more people into the fast·food restaurants, and therefore franchise operated restaurants will provide more openings for food managers; \the boom in computers is likely to continue, and jobs are likely to bEt- plen- tiful in areas ranging from computer programming to computer sales.\ The areas in the United States you should. be looking for em- ployment ~re those regions with the fastest growing populations. According to the Bureau of Labor Statistics the number of jobs will increase by mol,\e that 20' percent between 1~80 and 1985 in Alaska, Nevada, Utah, and Wyomjng, but gr-ow by 3 percent or less in New York, New Jersey, and Rhode Island. A spokesman .for tbe govern- ment agency, Daniel E. Hecker, \predicts that 'about one graduate in four will have to enter nontraditional oc- cupations or face unem- ployment.\ ·Rosenbaum responded: \nonetheless despite .the poor overall outlook, graduates prepared to enter certain fields will find good job op- portunities.\ Jobs should be available for accountants, bank o.ffice rs, vet er inar ians, meteorologists, statisticians, marketing researchers and urban planners. . For more information on where the jobs will and won't be in the 80's refer to tbe chart on this page. Statistical Breakdown The following is a list of the job prospects for the 80's. This data has been compiled by the U.S. Bureau of Labor Statistics, and app-ears as it was printed in The New York Times, Sunday, October 14. The number in- dicates percent increase, or decrease, over the. 1970's decade. · PROFESSIONAL, TECHNI- CAL, AND KINDRED Engineers-22.9 Aero-Astronautic'-12. 7 Chemicat..:18.4 Civil-21.6 Electrical-21-l Industrial-25.6 Mechanical-19.3 Metallurgical-27 .2 Mining-44.3 Petroleum-37 .3 Sales-18.7 Life and Physical Sclentists- 25.8 Agricultural-27 .5 Atmospheric, Space-7 .2 these schools seemed to ·oe getting better servitude.\ He hopes this wi11 change and feels th:a.t under Dave Wood's · direction a number of im- provements have already been made in housing. Greg is eager to act as a counselor: He says some RA's have been coming to him with problems but not a lar:ge number because most people · aren't used to having him and his job at Union. Greg encourages anyone to come meet him either in his ·office or apartmant. His campus phone number is 6545·. Biological-34.9 Chemists-20.5 Geologists-42.5 Marine-26.8 . Physicists and Astronomers- 15.8 Mathematics Specialists-25.9 Actuaries-23.9 Mathetnaticians-34.0 Statisticians-23.0 Science Technicians-25.~ Agricultural, Biological (except Health)-6.5 Chemical-12. 7 Drafters-28 .2 Electrical, Electronic-21.4 Industrial Engineering-29.7 Mathematical-49.0 Mechanical Engineering-24 .0 Surveyors-38.9 Engineering, Science--H. 7 MEDICAL WORKERS-33.1 Chiropractors-30.1 Dentists-18.4 Dieticians-13.6 Optometrists-17 .8 Pharmacists-14.8 Physicians, M.D. Osteopaths- ·36.6 · Podiatrists-12.7 Registered Nurses-35.4 Therapists-47 .3 Veterinarians-29.2 Clinical Laboratory Technologists-42.8 Dental Hygienists--118.9 TECHNICIANS -(except Health) Airplane Pilots-30.4 Air Traffic Controllers-32.9 Flight Engineers-31.2 Radio Operators COMPUTER SPECIALISTS- 27.3 Computer Programmers-25.1 Computer Systems Analysts- 305 . Other Computer Specialists- 30.4 SOCIAL SCIENTISTS-30.1 Economists-26.9 Political Scientists-22. 7 Psychologists-33.8 Sociologists-28.2 Urban and Regional Plan- ners-41.1 TEACHERS Adult-Education Teachers- 33.9 College and University-3.0 Elementary School-9.8 Pre-School, Kindergarten- 25.0 Secondary School- -11.3 ENTERTAINERS AND OTHER ARTISTS Actors-13.7 Athletes and Kindred Workers-13.1 Authors- -3.3 Dancers-22.2 Designers-20.4 Editors and Reporters-23.8 Musicians and Composers- 17.8 Painters and Sculptors-4.1 Photographers-9. 7 Radio and Television Announcers-29.8 OTHER PROFESSIONA, TECHNICAL-18.6 Accountants-19.1 Greg Chase Architects-52.2 Archivists and Curators..;(;.4 Clergy-5.4 Religious, except Clergy-1LO Foresters, Conservationists- 14.5 Judges--,6,8 Lawyers-18.9 Librarians-11.2 Operations, Systems Research~31.9 Personnel Labor Helatlons- 31.9 Research Workers- -22.3 Recreation Workers-20.8 Social Workers-29.7 Vocation, Education Coun- selors-18.6 MANAGER~, OFFICIALS, AND PROPRIETORS BUYERS, SALES, LOAN MANAGERS-35.2 Bank, Financial, Managers- 4L2 Credit Managers-13.2 Buyers, Wholesale, Retail- 39.8 Purchasing Agents, Buyers- 34.9. Sales, Manager, Retail Trade~31.7 Other Sales Managers-32.9 ADMINISTRATORS, INSP- ECTORS-228 .. Health Administrators-45.0 Officials, Administrators, Public-20.8 _ Postmasters, Mail Super- visors- -8.3 College Administrators-15.9 School Administrators-16.2 OTHER MANAGERS, OF- FICIALS-17 .. 6 Funeral Directors-0.0 Building Managers, Superintendents-36. 7 Office Managers-39.6 SALES WORKERS Advertising Agents-30.6 Auctioneers-1.6 l)emonstrators-6.7 Insurance Agents, Brokers- 18.6 Newspaper Carriers, and Vendors- -19.4 Real-Estate Agents, Brokers- -27.5 Stock and Bond Sales Agents- 15.4 ' . CLERICAL WORKERS SECRETARlAL-33.3 Secretaries, Legal-50.0 Secretaries, Medical-30.3 Sceretaries, Other-37.3 Stenographers- -22.0 Typists-20.0 . OFFICE~MACHING OPER- ATORS- -0.1 Bookkeeping, Billing Operator-27 .5 Galcula ting Machine Operator-18.8 Computer, Peripheral Equipment-18.0 Keypunch Operators- -26.8 I' OTHER CLERICAL-28.9 Bank Tellers-21.3 Billing Clerks-47 .5 Bookkeepers-12.6 Cashiers-30.5 . . Collectors, Bill and Accounts· -25.0 Counter Clerks, except Food- 23.8 File Clerks-19.0 Library Attendants, Assistant-17 .5 Mail Carriers,, Post Office-6.1 Postal Clerks- -11.0 Real-Estate Appraisers-28.7 Receptionists-27 .5 Teachers' Aides...;54.4 Telegraph Messengers- - 50.0 Telegraph Operators- -29.3 Telephone Operators-o.3 CRAFTS AND KINDRED WORKERS . CONSTRUCTION CR4FTS WORKERS-'30.0 Carpenters and Apprentices- 24.5 Brick and Stonemasons, Apprentices-18.1 Bulldozer Operators-49.6 Electricians and Apprentices· ·24.3 Painters and Apprentices- 21.3 Paperhangers-50.0 Plumbers, Pipefitters and Apprentices-38.0 METAL CRAFTS WORKERS- 18.3 Machinists and Apprentices- 16.8 Sheetmetal Wrokers and Apprentices-24.9 Tool and Diemakers, ~pprentices-17 .1 MECHANICS, REPAIRERS, INSTALLERS-19.9 Air-Conditioning, Heating, and Refrigeration Mechanics-- 60.2 Aircraft Mechanics-25.5 Auto Body Repairers-15.0 Auto Mechanics and Apprentices-16.0 Heavy Equipment Mechanics-13.5 Household Ap_uliance Mechanics-19.5 Radio, Television Repairers- 31.6 PRINTING TRADES WORKERS-3.9 Bookbinders-6.3 Compositors and Typesetters- - -7.9 Photoengravers, Lithogra· phers-23.1 Pressmen and Apprentices- U.S OTHER CRAFTS, KINDRED WORKERS-11.5 Bakers- -1.5 Cabinetmakers-7 .5 Crane, Qerrick, Hoist . Operators-25.8 Decorators, Window Dressers-23.0 Jewelers and Watchmakers- 9.1 Shoe Repairers- -4.0 Tailors-4.2 OPERATIVES

Page 6 OONOORDIENSIS, Octqber 18, 1979 arttJ culture • Glee~clubs And UJE Perform For Homecomi.ng Jazz Ensemble by JASON SEIKEN The Union Jazz Ensemble will make its debut under new director Tom. NaHi Saturday when it performs at a reception celebrating the inauguration of John Morris as president .of the college. . The reception, which is open to all students and alumni, will take place from 4:30-5:30 in either Jackson Gardens or Hale House, depending on the weather. Nalli, who doubles as the ensemble's top trombone player, may have to conduct with a magic wand instead of a baton in order to uphold the band's reputathm as one of the area's liveliest musical groups. With five musicians from last year's group participating in term abroad programs this fall, gaps have developed in a couple of sections of the band. Despite the shortage of musicians, Nalli expects this year's performances to \meet if not excede, the concerts we gave last year.\ He says that \although we were afraid we wouldn't have a full band, everything has workeq out fine. Everyone has been working hard, especially Tom Goldstein, who is chairman of our priority committee and has done all the organizational work.\ The band practices. every Sunday and Tuesday, usually for an hour and a half. Nalli encourages anyone who is in- terested in palying in the band or performing vocals with the group to attend one· of the rehearsals, which begin at 8 Glee Clubs The Union College Men's and Women's Glee Clubs will present a Homecoming Concert on Saturday evening, October 20, at 8:30p.m. in the Memorial Chapel. Admission is FREE! Both Glee Clubs are under the direction of Professor Hugh Allen Wilson, a.nd Ms. Carol Friedman will pr<lvide the piano accompaniment for this per- formance. The Men's Glee Club will the program with \Die Nacht\ by Franz Schubert, '''She Is My Slender Small Love\ by Eric H .. Th.itnan, \Come Again, Sweet Love\ by John Dowland, and ''Loch Lomond\ as arranged by R. Vaughan Williams and with tenor soloist Robert H. Imrie. The Women's Glee Club then sings Josquin Des Pres: ''Ave Maria;\ Lee Kjelson (arr.): \Wayfarin' Stranger\ with soprano soloist Pamela J. Howell; Irving Fine and Lewis Carroll: \The Lobster Quadrille (Alice in Wonderland);\ and Richard Rogers and OsGar Hammerstein II: \I'm Gonna Wash That Man Right Outa My Hair (South <Pacific).'' Following this, the Men's and Women's Glee Clubs will combine to ·sing a motet by · Johann.es S. Bach entitled \Alleluia and then an ''Americana'' sequence by Randall Thompson, ''The American Mercury.\ The Glee Clubs will dose the program traditionally with the singing of the Alma Mater, \Ode to Union,\ by Fitzhugh Ludlow '56. Special Homecoming Shows Featuring Rob Imrie Gary Glauber & Todd Miller Entertainment & fun for all! Proctor 1 s Hosts Mime. Troupe MUMMENSCHANZ, the critically acclaimed Swiss mime and mask show, will come to Schenectady on Saturday, November 17th at 8:00 p.m. at ACT - the Arts Center and Theatre, (Proc- tor's), 432 State Street in Downtown Schenectady. The performers, in various disguises, use their backgrounds in acting, mime and dance, to trigger the imagination of. the audience in this physically demanding program. The 3-member troupe is in the midst of a coast-to-coast tour of the Broadway show, now in it's 3rd record-breaking year. The family centered program is being presented by the new Proctor's Production Co. Inc. as the first in a series of quality programs brought to the Capital District. These shows will augment offerings by ACT. Other shows in the planning stage for Proctor's Productions include Pilobolus in March at ACT. This internationally ac- claimed dance troupe has toured 40 countries including the Soviet Union, and is the 1980 U.S. Winter .... Olympic's representative of the Arts. Contract negotiations are also under way to bring the National Theatre of the Deaf, and several Jazz Artists to the area. David Stapleton, a native of Scotia,: serves as Production Manager of the new company. He believes that the company is \in a position of great privilege in that we are in such close proximity to the newly formed Arts Center ami Theatre. We are also fortunate to be able to utilize all the local professional, technical, and artistic resources available in the Captial District.' ' The Company llopes to stage productions at the Proctor's Theatre in Troy and in other facilities located in Western New York, as well as at the Arts Center and Theatre of Schenectady with which it is not affiliated. Tickets for :M:ummenschanz are now available at the Community Box Offices: Colonie Center and Empire State Plaza, as well as at the Proctor's Theatre Box Office, and are $5.50, $7.5() and $9.50. Sharon Sutton At Union \Feminist Concepts in Architecture,\ will be the topic of the New York City artist and architect Sharon Sutton at 8 p.m. Oct. 19 at Union College. The presentation, sponsored by the Art Department and the Art Resources.Open to Women (AROW) is part of AROW's Visiting Artist Series, funded by the National Endowment for the Arts and the State Council on the Arts. She will speak in room 202 of the Callege Arts Building. An architect in residence With the New York City public schools, 3utton specializes in the urban environment . and recently inspired children in the South Bronx to redesign their neighborhood. · Sutton opened her own firm in 1976 and is currently working on her Ph.D. in environmentaC psychology at the City University of New York. As an accomplished artist, Sutton has exhibited her work throughout the the eastern United States. Her art appears in numerous collections. Sutton has also made her mark as a - professional musician per- forming with international ballet companies <.~nd Broadway musicals during the last decade. RoadRutaner ~ P~OPEYE ~ auasaunnY COLOR CARTOON FESTIVJ\L Tuesday, Oct. 23 at 9:00 and 11:00 p.m. HOMECOMING Oct. 19 at 9:00 p.m. Oct. 20 and 21 at 9:00 and 11:00 p.m. Ancient Athens Dr. Homer A. Thompson, Professor of Classical Archaeology, at The Institute for Advanced Study at Prin- ceton University, will speak on ''Socrates in the Market Place,\ at 8 p.n;1. Nov. 2 at Union College. A leading expert oil Greek studies, Thompson will use his lecture to· recreate the Agora, the -marketplace of Athens, where Socrates spent much of his time. Excavations over the past 50 years have revealed a significant body of information on the physical plant of the ancient marketplace. ''Although these discoveries add nothing to the substance of Socrates' teaching,'' Thompson said, \this new acquaintance with his milieu helps to explain the philosopher's wide and sure knowledge of hiunan nature, and the down-to-earth quality of his thinking.'' While at Union, Thompson will present a lecture in the class of David Reece, Frank Bailey Professor of Greek, Latin and Ancient Language. He will lecture on ''The Athenian Vase Painters in Their Setting·,\ a discussion based on excavations of the Kreameikos, the Potter's Quarter of Ancient Athens. A native of Ontario, Thomp- son bas a B.A. and an M.A. from the University of British Columbia and a Ph.D. from the University of Michigan. A former fellow of the American School of Classical Studies at Athens, active in the ex- cavations of Athenian Agora, he has held numerous posts in the academic community including George Eastman ·visiting Professor, Oxford University; Geddes-Harrower Professor, University of Aberdeen; visiting professor, Columbia University; Regents Lecturer, University of California at Berkeley; and Norton Lecturer, Archaeological Institute of America. A member of numerous professional and scholarly organizations and societies, he served as a lieutenant in the Royal Canadian Naval Reserve on loan to the Royal Navy during World War li as an in- telligence officer in the Atlantic. .. a1 by IJ Uni• Profe~ time Actre~ the Ui of th •·•Fern of Sh Wilde, 27th, a at 8: Memo ''Fe Collec terpr1 fascin. Wilde< two ·a \Wild tance, trayal. the Brack \Gwe Impor amon1 secon• \Sha~ Love,' well-k ·\Lady beth, ' and K the Sh: Shake: sampl• The was d and ir revers very ' easily variet: differ create wardr1 shawl and w into d cloaks The ' design action be quit to leav to cha1 char a· strikin Befc \Femi extens over 1 preseJ known in Bri succes in Nev As < tress < has h throug

/ OONCORDIENSIS_. October 18J 1979 Page 7 .a ulture leila Blake Presents • • • by DEMETRA PONTIFIKOS Union College Visiting Professor Leila Blake, three time recipient of Australia's Actress of the Year Award, and the Union College Department of the Arts will present ''Feminine Plural: The Women of Shakespeare and Oscar Wilde,\ on Saturday, October 27th, and Tuesday, October 30th at 8:00 p.m. in the Nott Memorial Theatre. ''Feminine · Plural,\ a Collection of Ms. Blake's in- terpretations of the most fascinating Shakespearean and Wildean women,. is divided into two ·acts. Act One, sub-titled, \Wilde's Women of Impor- tance,\ includes Leila's por- trayals of such characters as the domineering ''Lady Btacknell\ and the delightful \Gwendolyn\ fro-m ''The Importance of Being Ernest, among several others. The second .act, entitled, \Shakespeare's Women in Love,\ includes a peek at such well-known characters as \Lady Macbeth\ from Mac- beth, \Gertrude\ from Hamlet, and Kate from the Taming of the Shrew, as well as several of Shakespeare's sonnets and a sample of his lyric. poetry. and Australia and has played quite a number of parts on Broadway, Off-Broadway and .Off-Off Brol;ldway. Ms. Blake ·explains that her love of the _theater was inspired by her weekly_ attendance to shows at the repertory theater in her home town in Britain. To Leila, it is the combination of the arts and the exciting challenge of creating a different world, and exploring the inner life of a new character that makes theater so fascinating. It was in Australia that Leila got her major breaks in the theater world.A graduate of the . London Academy of Music and Dramatic Art, and the recipient of that school's prestigious Gold Medal in performance and theory, Leila migrated to Australia in 1950 and stG~yed there for seven years, working as a director and building a good name for herself. After- wards, Ms. Blake returned to Britain to pursue a career as a director on West End (the British equivalent of Broad- way). In 1964, she returned to Australia to pursue an acting career, hoping to play major roles. In the fo!Iowing decade in Australia, Leila built up a The costuming for the show strong name as a star which was designed by Leila herself helped her to earn the \Artist of and includes a multi-purpose, .. Outstanding Merit\ titli, which, reversable garment which is in turn helped to get her a good very versatile and which can name here, in America. Leila easily be transformed into the came to America in 1974 and variety of costumes worn by the has been working in · theater different characters Leila here since then-occassionally creates. Also in her simple going back to Britain and to wardrobe is a multi-purpose Australia, and also working in shawl which is different colors Canada from time to time. She and which is easily converted has done television, radio, and into different things such as plenty of stage work in the past- cloaks, scarves, and. aprons. few years, and has taught as a The versatility of her self- guest artist in universities all designed Clothing allows . the over the country, including action of \Feminine Plural\ to UCLA in Los Angeles, Alfred, in be quite fluid, and she never has upstate New York, and to leave the stage during an act Lawrence in Wisconsin. to change her costume, yet the Prese~tly, she is enjoying her characters all seem so stay at Union where she is strikingly different. teaching two drama courses, Before coming to Union, and coaching the cast of Six \Feminine Plural\ made an Characters in Search of an extensive tour of colleges all Author in voice and proper over the United States, was diction, one of her fortes. While presented at several well- at Union, she hopes to put known theatres in Australia and together a show involving her in Britain, and even had a voice students in recitation of successful run at Lincoln Center prose and poetry, toward the in New York City. end of the term, in late As quite an established ac- . November. tress and director, Miss Blake ' has had an active career Also, Leila is offering 3 throughout the United Kin_gdom workshops for the women ,..,.,. ....... .,.,.,...,..,.,...,...,..,..,.,..,.,.,..,...,.,..,.....,...,....,....,.....r.,...r.,.,..r.r.r..r..r..r.rJ..o\~J\\..r..r..rJ\\J\'J\1 § . § § . I I I § § § § ~ Man looked down on the ants, Sg § A world in a crystal ball, S § Unimportant ball. I § Then a shadow arose, s§ S And man looked up, R 8' -- \Oh my God!\ K § § § God looked, down on man, R 8 A world in a crystal ball; ~ § Unimportant ball. § 8 8 S§· o Then startled as hell, § God looked up § Rs ·- \Oh my •.• \ S§ ll G.J.T. § § § § S 8 sP!eas.e submit your .poems to Vicky Eddy and Neil Skolnik,S 8 s I Fmelines Editors, Box 560. S ' - s s § b-..,....O\\\\\\\....o-~..r faculty members of Union 'in proper speaking and public speaking on Tuesday, October 23rd, Tuesday, November 6th, and Tuesday, November from 4:30 to 6:00 in SS016. However, the important thing to remember right now is the smash show, \Feminine PI urar' which is soon to be coming our way. Don't let this unique: epportunity to see Miss Blake 1n action pass you by. Tickets will be on sale at the Nott Memorial Theatre Box Office starting October 24th through October 30th from 1:00 to 5:00 daily or can be reserved by calling the box office at 370- 6153. Tickets are $2:00 for students and $5.00 for the general public. I'll see you there! Oct. 27 and JOat 8:00p.m. in the NottMemorial Theater. _Dancer Offers lLessons ' Sally Bowden, choreographer and dancer, will be offering two master classes at Union on Wednesday, October 24th. A beginning level class will be given at 4:30, and an in- termediate-advanced Master Class will follow at 6: 15. Both classes will be held in the Dance Stui:fio (room 202-Arts Building). Miss Bowden, who currently teaches at Construction Company Dance Studio in New ... York City, has also taught at Merce Cunningham Dance Studio. Recipient of the CAPS Award for Choreography in 1976 and a National Endowment Grant for Choreography in 1974- 75, Bowden is a native of Dallas, Texas. She studied theater at Boston University School of ' Fine and Applied Arts. Her dance training includes work with Merce Cunningham, Maggie Black, Martha Graham, Alwin Nikolais- Murray Louis, and Paul Sanasardo, in· whose company she danced from 1963-1967. She has been Guest Artist-in- Residence at the University of Wisconsin, Madison; and has been guest artist-teacher at SUNY Potsdam, New Paltz, and Stony Brook, as well as in schools and colleges throughout the mid-West~ Massachusetts, and her native Texas. Sally Bowden to teach d~nce. The Dance Club i.s sponsoring this guest artist residency which is open to all students in the dance program and the community. It should be noted that there is limited availability 0f space in the Beginner class. WRUC Top Ten by JEFF MITCHELL 1. Karla Bonoff - Restless Nights 2. Blondie - Eat to the Beat 3. B52's - The p52's 4. Santana - Marathon 5. Led Zeppelin - In Through the Out Door 6. Cars - Candy-0 7. Gary Numan + Tubeway Army -. Tubeway Army 8. lara Hunter - Shades of Ian Hunter 9. Jimi Hendrix- Essential Jimi Hendrix Vol. II 10. Neil Young - Rust Never Sleeps Typing Fast & Accurate 75c- per page Satisfaction Guaranteed 355-6991 presents: PRISCILLA 1 HERDMAN Ft-t. Oet. l b •• . '

Page 8 OONOORDIENSIS, October 18, .l979 Inaugural Address: Morris· For The Record: More Than Window Dressing Trustees of Union College, members of the faculty, honored guests, students - and if by this time any may remain to me - friends! John B. Smith, the first President of Union College, began his Inaugural Address, the very first Inaugural Address of the college, by saying: ''It seems to be an established custom of this new- born college that the person who undertakes the window dressing assigned to its president should deliver an Inaugural Address on some topic appropriate to his office.\ In many ways one would very much like to be in the position where one could create a new \established ..custom\ of not giving an Inaugural Address - but as the 16th President one finds oneself somewhat trap- ped. One can say this of our first president, however: He was a wise man not easily fooled by the tinsel of Presidential Office - - the window dressing - the outside covering of the realities. Unlike John Smith and that first blossoming of the college in 1795 we do have a past and our established-customs are things we cannot avoid, nor can we avoid those elements of our history which make us what we are. It is a past filled both with wonder and surprises, the wisdom and political genius of Eliphalet Nott, as well as his foolishness and simple failure to see that the time had come to step down. But it is his genius and perceptive spirit ·that marked this college the most and which it still broods over. The fundamental genius of Nott was his ability to address tqe problems of the world about him, his willingness to entertain the notion that understanding had to embrace not merely a rote learning but the living languages and the reality of science. He understood that an educated person could not ignore · the forces that dominated the western world. Eliphalet Nott believed in dealing with a real world. Our past imposes upon us the responsibility of taking our world very seriously. We need to address the problem of teaching our young people so that they can become an in- formed and educated generation of leaders in the professions, engineering, science and business. This problem can only be faced if we are willing to grasp the necessity for a curriculum which shows an awareness of those needs. This means that we have to understand that what confronts us is not the self- evident need for our in- stitutional survival, but rather our educational mission, and in the terms of that mission we will need to seek to support it in such a way that we shall sur- vive. The work that we should be doing is the work of producing the quality of education we so manifestly believe in anJ to stop looking over our shoulders to see if we are doing it. We have a task to perform, we are well equipped to do that task -- we must put all our attention into the performance of that task at a time of uncertainty .and dif- ficulty. As partners in this educational task we must ask how we can best prepare our students for their future as human persons in a fast changing society and world - and how we can best prepare and maintain ourselves so that we can do that job well. Are our students ready to face intellectually the nature of the world they enter? Have they had posed to them the questions that need posing? Have they been brought to the point where they are at least invited to ponder the issues? Have they been given the intellectual discipline which will carry them through enormous change and still enable them to deal with themselves in the midst of that change? These are the questions that the nature of our. past as an institution begs us to ask. Our tendency, of course, is to ignore the world and its pressures; but we cannot ignore our world and what makes us what we are. Ought we not, therefore, once in a while examine ourselves and the structures through which we mold our students' education, with an eye to our educational purpose? Should we not grasp willingly the challenge presented by our present structure as a liberal arts college with a division of engineering? Our students should be caught I the crossfire of conversation between those who participate in the technological arts and those who, in the liberal arts, reflect upon the nature of technology. The college motto, with its enlightenment message, still has relevance for our in~ tellectual community today - \we all become brothers under the laws of minerva.\ We, having an intellectual heritage, are united by a commitment to the common bond of reason and above all - to wisdom. This commitment testifies to the fact that we are a particular kind. of institution, both with respect to purpose and. with respect to style. With respect to purpose a college is different from other institutions because it does not have a clearly defined product, but is rather a place in which there is carried on a process which involves young people at an important period in their lives, a process which focuses upon the intellect. If we relate education to the world we must recognize that this is done within the setting of the scholarly disciplines. With respect to style, a college has to have ~a commitment to . the highest ideals of wisdom- that is, reason, not in its bright and shallow aspect, but reason that also plumbs the depths, recognizing that we can be imprisoned by what Blake calls our own \mind-forg'd manacles.\ reason, which only recognizes· the commitment to pursue the truth, and for Which the only certainty is that it cannot oe certain, does not in itself lead us to a certain ultimate truth. As an institution we have to be dedicated net to the promulgation of truths and certainties, but to - the development .of mind ~ a mind not . closed, but open to the challenges it will face in the future. Thus, those of us. who practice here and who hold this place in trust must form a fraternity in which we . are willing to be open to the in- tellectual searches that go on around us. We must remember that once manacled the mind becomes a menacing thing. In the stirring days of the early 19th century it must have seemed that in te-chnology and in science was to be found the solution of all the potential problems of man. We have discovered today that human nature remains human nature and that the mind which is. only fascinated with control over nature ultimately loses control. We need to open up the channels between the means of control represented by .science and technology, and the human will, represented by those who keep trust with the ideas of the past. The divisions which separate us in the disciplines must be broken down so that we can talk back and forth to each other as we practice our disciplines .. It is · only then th'at we can un- derstand what kind of a world we have wrought, and yet how we can best live within it. Can we see beyond the confines of our immediate concerns to be aware that this is an ideal place where this communication can take place? We should try to find the structure which would enable us to do this and to allow our students the means of being a part of that conversation. The power of reason drives us all, can we indeed be -fraternally united through our common sou~ce of inspiration? We who now form Union College, must also recognize the fact that it is an institution with a particular future - and we are responsible for that future. One of the failures of Eliphalet Nott during his long tenure as president was that he failed to understand the fact that ..the institution was more than he and in his failure to let go and let the college face a future unknown by itself. He very nearly destroyed the magnificent institution he created. We have much to learn about that. We are the keepers. of a tradition', we mold that tradition into new forms in the present, but we must see that our responsibility is also to transmit our present to an unknown future. By this I do not mean that we should only be con- cerned with the fact that we have something to pasS on to posterit~, that is, that we should be concerned only with brute survival. SUI'Vival by itself, as a principle on . which we should determine present action,. is not entirely a significant goal because it would so represent a weakening of the characteristic quality of our college that survival is less -likely to be attained. What we have to pass on to the future is that to which we should now most be com- mitted to - the quality of Union · College, both in terms· of its standards of excellence, and iQ terms of its nature. We have to so 'manage the resources that hav.e been given to us that we can maintain a quality of excellence that will keep this college a significant private college of the Uberal arts. This means that the faculty has a significant and unequivocal responl?ibility to make Its choices and decisions with respect to the curriculum and with respect to the faculty it 1>rings to Union and retains at Union with the standard of excellence pararrtoUiJ.t. There can be no shirking that need to make all our decisions with the criterion of excellence -as a fundamental need of the faculty. But this standard ·Of quality must also permeate all other aspects of our college, from the physical strl!ctures to the aesthetic appearance of the campus. Beauty, it is said, is only skin deep, but without beauty you sometimes don't .get that: first look that gives you a chance to find out what lies beneath the skin. The quality of Union College rests primarily upon a goO(ffaculty dedicated to quality in what it does, and it _will no this well if it tries to understand the deeper needs of an edueated citizenry. But one cannot take lightly the question of literal survival as we look to the future. The facts that lie before us are too stark and too ·real to be ignored. How is an institution like ours to fare in an .inflationary time with energy costs incr,easi_ng at an alarming .rate, with additional social burdens placed upon us and with the possibility that there are fewer persons who will need educating in the next decade? The key to the latter is what I have already said about quality and excellence. Also, I think, it rests upon what we can make of our own peculiar destiny as a liberal arts college with engineering within its bounds. But, clearly, beyond this we have to look to those who have found that what institutions like ours have given is significant. That the peculiarity of the private liberal arts college provides a significant training of mind, and of temper, that it would be seen as worth main- taining. The diversity . of American education is startling to anyone from outside and Union's place in this diversity is fundamental and important. We have to do what we can to make sure in the difficult days that lie ahead that this· place ·~n the spectrum of that diversity is maintained. This is why the . question of survival is tied up so closely with our own clarity of purpose, and our willingness to do well what we are able to' do - .to get on with the business of doing it. All. of us, faculty, trustees, alumn·i, administrators, staff and students all stand together in this, and we must be willing to work in our way for the purposes of the college. ln this we can be united in a common goal - ·to maintain a singular college of quality which can prepare its students for leadership in a technQlogica:l society so that they have both the understand-ing of what technology implies for human life and the ability to maintain human dignity in its midst. In our diverse ways the various constituencies of Union College must work towards this goal of keeping the college in its place within the diversity of higl}er education in America.. The ,automony of the independent college is important ~nd Unionf s example will be an important example. We must recognize that the college has gone through a difficult period. during which tension among its· various elements was keenly felt. But now, having recognized that fact we need to move on to other and more important things. We have important tasks to per- form. The tasks that lie ahead for us all are important and unavoidable if we are to be able to contfuue to make our mark. To teach, to learn, to provide the wherewithal such that teaching and learning can continue is what we're about. To provide a sanctuary for the cut and thrust of intellectual argument, a place where human minds can be open to each other, and also to provide the freeaom within which that ·interaction can occur. To provide the means by which young people can develop and grow in intellect, spirit and in body with sensitivity towards others, that is what we are .about. What we have to ask of each other is that we will be willing to listen and to learn from each other in order that we might maintain an institution large enough for us who belong to it to grow in mind and spirit. This .calls us to be willing to Corm a fraternity of those who believe that there is an essential r11tionality to the universe, and that it is in the common search for that t'ationality and in training others to participate in their search that we can live- and work together. ' ' ' Aj r L Spe ye:: ded rigl a bur: Gin yea mel Aftt den con nali and war tak1 of pro: Mm terr var crir wer or . ste~ poe: the and Sol2 livi Ver Soci to p fam the Gro stuc plai So vi In l witt wer spie \fre of ' sitie - Al only trar Koz timE nea Mer whe spe~ timE hurr. bur~ noti1 carr life, is 1 Am1 he 1 with unil gov1 duri dis a citir. Viet reas feel

,f I. f v ' 1 t OON;OORDIENSIS, October 18, 19\19 Page 9 Alexander Ginzburg: THOUGHTS OF A DISSIDENT JJY .Donna Creeley Last Wednesday, the Speakers Forum opened its year with \a man whose dedication and love for human rights has caused. him to suffer a great deal of pain and humiliation.\ Writer Alexander Ginzburg for the past twenty years was under unjust punish~ ment . issued by th,e Soviets. After his first arrest he was denied the opportunity to continue his studies in jour- nalism at Moscow University, and experienced trouble finding work. He was thus forced to take several jobs including that of cleaning sewers. He was prohibited from moving back to Moscow after serving his prison term and a total of nine years in various prison camps. The crimes that placed him there weren't those of physical harm or stealing, etc. but were in- stead the citing of a collection of poems, creating a book about the famous trials of dissidents and together with Alexander 1 Solzhenitsyn (who he is now living with in Cavendish, Vermont) created the Russian Social Fund to distribute funds to political dissidents and their families. Moreover, he foUnded the Moscow .Helsinki Watch Group which issued several studies. One such study ex- plained the living conditions in Soviet prisons and labor camps. In April of this year he, along . with four other jailed dissidents were exchanged for two Soviet spies. Mr. Ginzburg came to the \free world\ and began his tour of various American Wliver- sities. ·Although Mr. Ginzburg can only speak Russian, and the translation by Vladimir Kozlovsky was muffled at times, most everyone in the near capacity crowd at Memorial ~hapel was over- whelmed by this amazing speaker. There were many times that his good sense of humor led the entire room to burst into laughter. With the notion of optimism that he had carried with him throughout his life, Ginzburg explained why he is making such a tour of American universities. He says he was. very much impressed with the force that American university students led the government to change its policy during the Vietnam War. He disagrees . with such a change citing the present situations in Vietnam and Cambodia as a reason. But he does however feel that if American students can once again gather together this force, that they will be· able to help the third world nations which were before just aban- doned to fate. He continued to sa:y:. that if Americans would gather up enough courage, sincerity and kindness to form a Peace Corps (only without the constraints of government), willing to go into places and see what is happening, they too wiU be able' to obtain mutual un- <1erstanding. . He sincerely believes that it is only our lack of foresight that caused our policy change in the 60's and is keeping us from changing our present policies. This taur is Ginzburg's way of fulfilling the . objective that he claims- all dissidents, whether liberals or reactionaries as himself, ha:ve in common. This objective is: the insuring of lasting peace and unity. Ginzburg als<l stated that not only should the Peace Corps serve as an example for today's Americans, but that it was an inspiration for his own work. Following his speech, he answered a series of questions posed to him by the audience. In a special interview with Con- cordiensis and also in a press conference held before his speech, Mr. Ginzburg presented even more enlightening in- formation. Commenting on the recent defections, especially that of the Bolshoi Ballet star, he states that there are a lot of such actions occurring daily. To confirm· this, he cites the enormous decrease in the popJ!lation of East Gennany today from before the division occurred. It is only because certain prominent people have defected that we have become increasingly aware of the ac- tions. He also stated that since ballet is considered a mer- ·chandisereadilysold for foreign currency, there probably won't be any action taken to prevent their future visits. More may escape and those who don't will be heroes at home, but Soviet security is already so tight that the only other precautions available \would be to have the stars all travel in cages.\ He also clarified the reports about the ballet company's boycott of the defector's wife who returned to Russia. He said · that the boycott is not due to the fact that her husband defected as most Americans believe, but rather due to the circumstances · · of her return. Apparently she accepted an offer to become the lead dancer 'if she chose not to Interested in the Law ? Attend the First Annual Capital Drstrict Pre Law Fair State University of New York at Albany Campus Center, Majn Ballroom Saturday, October 20th, 11: 00 - 3: 30. Meet representatives from: Har- vard, Yale, SUNY at . Buffalo, Albany Law, Boston U ., . Georg.etown, and 20 other Law Schools. Plus Representatives from the Kaplan, Sexton» and Adelphi LSA T prep courses. Ccntact William Daniels - SS216A by Oct. 18 to reserve your space. THIS SHOULD NOT BE MISSED accompany her husband. Most Soviet citizens, especially the rest of the dancers, feel that she was wrong .in accepting such an offer. He seems to doubt strongly that she would otherwise have wanted to return as strongly otherwise. Ginzburg also commented on the Soviet troops in Cuba, stating that anything so close to the American borders is dangerous. He also expressed his sorrow for the Cubans under the Castro regime. In response to the Salt II Treaty, Ginzburg stated that he believes President Carter to be sincerely attempting to reach peace. He says, however, , that the Soviets have their own interpretation of international agreements and have thus far not upheld very many such treaties. He says that even the ·agreement to allow his family to travel safely to the United States has been denied. His family has been denied this agreed upon right because of his oldest son who was adopted. Although the Soviet government and International laws have previously recognized him as a legal family member, they are now denying him of his right. The rest of the family is remaining in Russia, for the safety of his son, until this can be settled and he is allowed to transport. Ginzburg admits that he is very concerned with the safety of his family and says, \when one deals with a totalitarian system, one knows what will happen and can only hope that God is merciless.\ He possesses bitter experiences of life under such a regime, and de<;lared that almost every family (not just those of dissidents) have had at least one member killed or harshly punished. Mr. Ginzburg gravely thanks - the U. S. government for allowing his freedom as his sentence has never been repealed~ He likes America very much even with its own problems, but when asked about the chances of democracy flourishing in Russia, he nodded sadly and remarked that he didn't think it would be possible and personally doesn't advocate it for the coWltry either. One reason he gave for taking such a position was: \Who would you vote for? The people who are now in charge would not win an election, yet the. other people fast are not capable of running the country due to the limited education program that is active presently. Also all other possible leaders have been killed as they posed a threat to the regime.\ Instead he ad- · vocates a slow evolution process which he assures us is occurring although not among the small group of rulers. That wiU not occur either, unless the present conditions are changed. \Support from the West is keeping the regime going, especially support for Soviet military purposes,\ stated Ginzburg. In his opinion the regime was prepared to retreat in the 1960's with economic reforms allowing some in- dependence for industries. This led to totalitarianism as the Western nations saw the reforms as already under way and gave the country trade on credit, etc. so that the reforms never needed to occur and thus didn't. Mr. Ginzburg offers strong support for the American belief in human rights. He says, \Man has a right to happiness or the right to disagree with the happiness he now has.\ All minorities are repressed as well as all forms of religion. The only reason they don't persevere in repressing the dissidents is that they have little concern over bad publicity that they might receive in foreign newspapers. They (the government) control their papers and it is for this reason states Ginzburg, that I I I I I I I I most citizens just naturally develop a habit of not believing the Soviet newspapers. \The Soviet regime hasn't changed in over ten years,\ states Ginzburg, \and the dissident movement will sur- vive as long as the regime does. The Pope is a major gift of God to the dissidents as he has ex- perienced living under totalitarianism.\ At 43 years of age, Alexander Ginzburg, who attributes his hard-core anti-socialism mainly to the works of Karl Marx, has great hopes . for the future. Following his tours he hopes to enroll in an American uni~ersity where he can learn the English language. Then he hopes to continue the jour- nalistic career he had started while in Russia as a reporter of sports, literature and art. His favorite reporting was that of ballet and he actually travelled with the Bolshoi Ballet as a reporter. He has studied under an American while at the Moscow University and thus already has a strong backgroWld in the workings of American newspapers and publications. The combination of his vast knowledge and experiences with the enormous courage and the strong personality that he portrays can only serve as an assurance that Alexander Ginzburg will succeed. Most students, who like myslef, had the chance to visit with him, no doubt wish him the best of luck. free ... delivery 372-4441 I I I I $1.00 off any large l·item 1 or more pizza. · ~ Copyright 1979 One coupon per pizza. • I Expires: 10-21-79 I Domll'lo's Pizza :' • 1 127 Not+ Ter Phone: 372-4441 I ._ ________________________________________ _, ......................... ~ ' i . '

Page 10 OONOORDIENBIS~ October 18~ 1979 Inauguration ••• Continued .from page 1 offered encouragement to Morris, the same en- couragement tliat Woodrow Wilson is said to have received in 1912: \Courage brother. bo not stumble.\ On the tail of Kahl's remarks, the Union College Men's and Women's Glee Clubs, seated in the gallery in the rear of the Chapel, sang Alleluia from Motet VI, by J.S. Bach. Trustee Oay then formally appointed Morris to his dual post in a traditional installation ceremony during which Morris donned a new robe-the robe commensurate with his new office. Day gave the president a necklace as a symbol of the college and Arnold I. Burns, the secretary of the Board of Governors of Union University, presented him with the seal of Union University. President Morris then delivered his inaugurational address. (See page 8 for text of the President's address.) When Morris had finished his speech, he and Day shared the 464 State St. we deliver duty of awarding honorary degrees to, in Day's words, \four persons deservin_g of honor by virtue of talent a.nd the exercise of talent.\ Educator Thomas Alva Bartlett received the degree of Doctor of Laws (LL.D.); scholar Mary Morley Hyde was awarded the degree of Doctor of Humane Letters (L.H.D.), as was scholar Basil G. Mitchell;. and con- servatioRist Paul Schaefer was the recipient of the degree of Doctor of Science (Sc~D.). Following the singing of the Ode to Union by the Men's and Women's Glee Clubs, the benediction by Rev. Dykstra, and the recessional, a luncheon for invited guests was held at the Memorial Field House. As the crowd from the Chapel milled about the library courtyard after the inauguration ceremony, the sun broke through the clouds, and one was wont to think that maybe it was a sign of good things to come. Schenectady 374-1888 PRATT a WHITNEY I AIRCRAA GROUP A division of UNITED TECHNOLOGIES lNill be OCTOBER 31, 1979 to interview candidates for attractive opportunities in HIGH TECHNOLOGY Consult your Placement Office for degree and field of study requirements An Equal Opportunity Employer Tuesday Night is UNION COLLEGE NI,GHT at the Schenect,ady Ramada Inn's Club Car Lounge 9 p.m. to 2 a.m. . Featuring -Top 40 & Di,sco Bands . . TuesdayThru Saturday All Bar Brand Liquor $1.00 Draft Beer SOc a glass Bottled Beer (Bud & Schlitz) 85c With Your College LD~ . J:ust Right Down the Str-eet ••• REWARD REWARD REWARD LUIGI PIRANDELLO SIX CHARACTERS PRESSING CHARGES AGAINST PIRANDEL.LO FOR TORMENT OF SPIRIT, INHUMANE TREATMENT, AND_SHUNTING OF PAR~NTAL DUTIES IN SEARCH OF THEIR BETRAYER THEY HAVE PROVIDED THE FOLLOWING INFORMAT'ION: 5'8\ 140 LBS., BROWN EYES AND HAIR, BALDING ON TOP, SLANTED LEFT EYEBROW BORN ALIVE-THEY WISH TO LIVEI \ . - Art • Union exhibit Orient< on Mor Car neg from 11 Ltd. 0 special a colle< Art tot pieces India, Thailm back t< turY WOOQC pain tin master Hirosb Kunisa consist origin; Uthogr mezzot world tempor Mori, repres1 to ans, work,, graphi• Worn Series· Lectur Resour sponso1 this fal differe1 series 1 p.m. il Sharon artist, stud en psycho NewY• $1.00 ~ The su series; Loung• black Memor portrai Straus Schapil One Sa turd Tuesda Artist-i will Plural charac from ~ Wilde, Memor $5.00 or Politi sponsm by Pr ( Unio11 Univei Coalitic for Jin sday, C Straus~ AKC pup pie: female Make • 0127. (' Puppie PLA< Atte Sopho1 Senior sponsoJ and C Alumni separa alu.:mn career comm1 busine Octo be Th~ l Hum catiom Hum Hurr. Finane

BULLETIN BOARD Art Exhibition and Sale at · Union College. A special exhibition and sale of Original . Oriental Art will be presented on Monday, October 29, 1979 at Carnegie Hall Outer - \LobJ>y from 10 a.m.· to 5 p.m. Marson Ltd. of Baltimore, Maryland . specializes in exhibiting for sale a collection of Original Oriental Art totaling approximately 500 pieces from Jaapan, China, India, Tibet, Nepal and . Thailand. The oldest prints date back to the 18th and 19th Cen- · tury and include Chinese woodcuts, Indian miniature paintings and manuscrip~s and master works by such arttsts ru; Hiroshige, Kuniyoshi and Kunisada. The modern pieces consist of a large group of original woodcuts, etchings, lithographs, serigraphs and mezzotints . created by such world renowned con- temporaries as Saito, Azechi, Mori, Katsuda, and Maki. A · representative ·will be present to answer questions about the work, artists, and the various graphic tecnhiques employed. Women Artists' Lecture Series--Union Arts' Jaffe- Lecture Fund and Art Resources Open to Women is co- · sponsoring a series of slide talks this fall by eminent women in different artistic fields. The series begins on Oct(}ber 19 at ·s p.m. in Room 202 Arts with Sharon Sutt(}n, an architect and artist, musician and doctoral student of environmental psychology at City University of . New York. Admission is $3.00 or $1.00 with a student ·ID card. The subsequent lectures in the series are: October 26, Strauss Lounge, Howardine Pindell, black artist; November 15, Memorial Chapel, Alice Neel, portraitist; and December 7, Strauss Lounge, Miriam Schapiro, fabric artist. One Woman Show on Saturday, October 27 and Tuesday, October 30. Visiting Artist-in-Residence Leila Blake will present , ''Feminine Plural,\ her dramatic _ characterization (}f women from Shakespeare and Oscar Wilde, at 8 p.m. in Nott Memorial Theater. Tickets are $5.00 or $2.00 for Union students. Political Science Department sponsors Lester Fund Lecture by Pmfessor , Doug A.rnold · (Union '72) of Princeto·n University on \}Juilding Coalitions in Congress: Lessons for Jimmy Carter,\ (}n Thur- sday, October 18 at 7:30p.m. in • Strauss Lounge. AKC registered beagle puppies for sale. Male and female. Asking minimal price. Make _excellent pets. Call 872- 0127. (This is not a toll call.) Puppies must be sold. PLACEMENT Attention: Freshmen, Sophomores, Juniors and Seniors: A special event sponsored by the Placement and Career Resources and Alumni Affairs Offices. Three separate panels of Union alumni · will be discussing career paths in the areas- of communications, law, and business-finance on Friday, October 19th at 3:00 p.m. Thf6 locations are: Humanities 112-Cmnmuni- cations · · Humanities 114-Law Humanities 117--Business- Finance OONOOBDIENSIS~ October 18, 1979 Page 11 . classifieos Please ·check the Phtcement Office for summer jobs. We have applications in Placement for summer jobs from EASTMAN KODAK AND ROCHESTER PRODUCTS. Peace Corps-VISTA will hold interviews - or information sessions at 4 p.m. in Strauss Lounge on October 29. REWARD!! MISSING: One .. LOST: A pair of light brown DIAMOND RING with three glasses in a light br(}wn & white diamond 'setting, yellow g(}ld . case; somewhere between ,band. Any information, please Carnegie 1:\nd Peter Pause, call 6912 or· 6205. NO A QUESTIONS ASKED. . rea the University Perfornung Arts Center Main Theatre at 8 p.m. F(}r further infonnation call 457-a606 or 458-7530. TRIP LOST: Digital LCD Watch~ ca·l.e· ·ndar. Made by Advance Electronics. Oct. 26-The City af Troy, the Hudson-Mohawk Industrial Gateway, and the Hudson Mohawk Cultural Park Com· mission are cosponsoring a tour of Lawrence and Lowell. For further infonnation call 274- 5~67 .. ' General Dynamics wiU bold an orientation session in Strauss Lounge, on October 16 at 7 p.m. ' . A representative from G,raduate Studies SUNY at Albany will be on campus on . · N(}vember 5 to talk to students. Stop' in Placement and sign up. Gen,eral Tire and Rubber · Company has provided us with a b(}oldet with the jobs they have available for: Engineers, I.E.'s, Chemists, Computer Science Majors. Please stop by and have a look. For internships and Fellowship opportunities, contact Yungwha Min. It was left in the Arts Departg ment. If found please contact Paul Sabatino. 370-6755, B(}x 2021, room226West, or return to .:Security or the Arts Depart- ment. :QH Al1y Continued from page 12 call 474-1108. Oct. 23-27--Arthur Milier's The Crucible will be staged in There will be video tapes on Career Opportunities in Manufacturing on October 22 at 4 p.m. at PCR. · FOUND: A blue West Wind · windbreaker with lining. Call Rich at 370-6431. · Pizza I 3'10-,0bO DC.L\ \JERlES! GENERAL CVNAMIC:S That's ttie date when engineers from General Dynamics will be here oncampus to talk teclmology with graduating engineering or science students. We'll be here to answer your questions and to tell you everything you need to know about our broad spectrum of opportunities and about how you can begin a rewarding career with General Dynar:nlcs. Located in Southern California. the Pomona Division is a world leader in t~e deSign and manufacture of tacticalweapon systems. We're gmwing and adding to IC our engineering staff every day, and there's outstanding growth potential for motivated people. Talk to us about how you can be involved with highly technical and . challenging state-of-the-art projects with GeneFa.l Dynamics. Don't wait. Contact your Placement Office now for your interview. Or, drop a line to: Frank LeRoy, College Relations Coordinator, GENERAL DYNAMICS, P.O. Box 2507, Pomona; CA 91766. GENERAL DYNAMICS Pomona Division An Equal Opportunity Employer M/F U.S. Citizenship Required

Page 12 OONOORDIEN8IS, October 18, 19\19 ----Around Campus~' , __ n-----AREA CALENDAR------.. Infirmary Changes AUCTION Oct. 20--Art Resources Open to Women ( AROW) is planning an art auction fund raising event for Saturday at 8 p.m., with a preview at 7 p.m. The auction will take place at the Unitarian Church, 1221 Wendell Ave., Schenectady. For turther r information, call Diane Reiner, 346•5101. CULTURE Oct. 21--The Capitol Disc Collectors Club is presenting their third annual collectables , Arts and Crafts Carousel at the Polish Community Center, Washington Avenue Extension, Albany, N.Y. Doors open to the public at 9 a.m. and· close at 8 p.m. For further in~ormation, can 869-6622. Oct. 27-The seventh Regional Craft Show sponsored by the Schenectady Museum will be held Oct. 27 to Jan. 6 in the museum on Nott Terrace Heights. For further in- formation, call Carol' Hudson 382-7890. DANCE Oct. 22- The Studio for Ethnic Dance, Inc., is pleased to an- nounce its Fall 1979 schedule of classes beginning the week of Oct. 22. Classes will consist of ballet, juggling, disco, etc. For further information, call 465- 5503. LECTURE Oct. 21-The State Education Department of the University at Albany will present a lecture on Saul Bellow's \Herzog.\ The lecture will be held at 1:30 p.m. at the New York State Museum. For further information, call 457-3907. Oct. 23-The State Education Department will present a public information program about SALT n called \A Town Meeting\ at 8 p.m. in the Auditoiium of the New York State Museum, Empire State Plaza, Albany. For further information, call Henrey Ferguson, 474-5807. Oct.. 23-A lecture entitled ''World Cinema: New Direc- ti9ns in New Films\ will be presented by Dr. . Richard Goldman at the New York State Museum, Albany. For further infonnation,. call Jim Seficik, 474-5842. Oct. 26-The New York State Museum will present SKYWATCHII, \ASpaceman's Tour of the Solar System,\ a lecture by RPI Professor Alan S. Meltzer at 8 p.m. in the Auditorium of the State Museum. For .further in- formation, call Jim Silicik 474- 5842. MUSIC Oct. 20--A concert of traditional dance, music, and songs will be presented by local band, FENNIG'S ALL-STAR STRING BAND and ALISTAIR ANDERSON, Saturday, Oct. 20 at 8 p.m. at the Niskayuna High School, Balltown Road, Schenectady. The concert is co- sponsored by Front Hall Records and the Niskayuna Folk Club, and will benefit folksinger Michael Cooney who is recovering from an automobile accident. For further information call 765-4193 or 382-2666. Oct. 20--Mitzie Collins, popular Rochester composer, folksinger, and specialist in music of the 19th century, will perform Oct. 20 in the Russell Sage College Julia Howard Bush Memorial Center at 8:30 p.m. For further information contact Patricia Troiano at 274- 5267. Oct. 21-Music Council and the University at Albany's Music Department will present the internationally renowned Dutch· Miller Recycling The Fall '79 Miller Campus Reclamation Program has begun at Union College. The program, sponsored by the Miller Brewing Company and DeCrescente Distri-buting of Mechanicville, New York, is designed to encourage students to help clean up the en- vironment by offering prizes to the groups and organizations that collect the most bottles and cans.' Last Spring, Union College ranked 4th among over 125 colleges in the program - collecting over 5,000 pounds of bottles, nearly 1,000 pounds of aluminum cans and earning close to 50,000 points. This was quite an accomplishment considering it was the first time Union participated in the program. Nine fraternities participated in the Spring and prize money totalling nearly $1,800 was awarded to the six earning the most points. The winners were: Grand prize - Delta Chi and Beta Theta Pi, $500 each. Second prize - Sigma Phi and Phi Gariuna Delta, $250 each. Third prize - Phi Sigma Kappa and Alpha Delta Phi, $125 each. This Fall any recognized campus organization is eligible to participate. Groups will compete in two divisions for the Grand Prize - the fraternity and the open (sororities, clubs, etc.) division. The top finisher in each division wins the grand prize. The second and third prizes will be a warded to the organizations with the next highest point\ totals, regardless of division. Points are awarded based on pounds of bottles and cans colleCted. Five points are awarded for each pound of bottles and 100 points for each pound of cans. For further details, prize brochures, reclamation bags or any other information contact Bill Meehan at 370..;(;575 or 382- 8663. I For anyone who is interested in the Photography Club, please submit your name, box number and tel. number to box 1300. Also, state if you are interested in using the darkroom. If you have any questions, colt Barry at 377-21 89. soprano Elly Ameling in con.,. cert at 7:30 p.m. at Page Hall. ( D_owntown Campus) For further information cal1457-8608 or 457-8205. Oct. 23--Troy Chromatic. Concerts, Inc., will open its 1979-80 season with a , per .. formance by pianist Horacio Gutierrez at 8 p.m. at the Troy Savings Bank Music Hall, Second and State Streets, Troy. For further information call 458-7080. Oct. 25-Alvin Curran will present \Electronic Music\ at SUNY Albany's Performing Arts Center. The concert will begin at 8:30 at Recital Hall. For further information call 457.0006. ~ There h~ve been a few- changes in the campus in\ firmary this term. The most major change has to do with the hours that Silliman Hall will be open. On weekdays the in- firmary will be open from 7: 30 a. m. until 11:00 p. m.,rand on weekends it will be open from 10:00 a.m. until8:00 p. m. 1f an emergency occurs after these hours, students are to call security. Security will the11 take any necessary steps, whether it be to transport an individual to the hospital or to place a call to the resident nurse. ·Another change is that; in addition to a doctor being available from 9:00 a. m.. until 11:00 a. m. on Monday, Tuesday, Thursday, and Friday and from 4:00 until 6:00 p .. m. on Wednesday, the college also now has a full time physician's assistant. She can do any physical assessments that Illay be required and thus extends the . cunount of time duriag which students may be treated. Because of the success of last year's seif-help common cold }able, tbe table will be con- tinuedthis year. This will allow students suffering from the ailments of a common cold to receive speedy artd free· medicinal aide. These un- prescriptioned drugs should handle any minor ailment. If, however, your cold continues, then it is advised that you return for a .physical assessment and treatment. The finat addition to the in- firmary is that of a \fat club.\ Yes, that's right, it is a .program similar to weight watchers in that it ·offers group support from peers, recommends a plan for weight reduction, and provides initiative for one to reach his or her goal. This \fat club\ is offered to you totally free except for the pounds you'll lose. All records of weight will also be kept confidential. To get involved with this program call 370-6120. The group will meet once a week on Wednesdays from4:30-5:30, beginning with a weigh-in at Silliman Hall. Oct. 26-27-Albany Symphony· concertgoers will have a unique opportunity· to enhan<;!e their enjoyment of this season's performances. \Sy~nphony Backdrop\ is a new series of talks designed to reward the listener by increasing per- ception and appreciation of · music. The first series will . feature Albany Symphony· Orchestra concerts on Oct. 26 at the Troy Music Hall and Oct. 27 at Albany's Palace Theater at 8:30 p.m. For further in· formation call 273.()552. THEATER Social Committee presents: Oct. 21, 22-27-The world's scintillating stagework will blossom in Albany, overflowing with visual delights and the sweetest fun, when The Importance of Being Earnest is unveiled by the Empire State Youth Theatre Institute. The concert will take place on Oct. 21 at 2 p.m., Oct. 22-26 at 10 a.m. and Oct. 26-27 at 7:30 p.m. in the Main Theatre of the Governor Nelson A. Rockefeller Empire State Plaza Performing Arts Center. For further information NI'GHT CLUB NOVEMBER '1 e, 8:30 p.m. ALUMNI GYM Featuring Hypnotist John Kolisch Dance to the music of II Friends\ T:ickets: $4 Continued on page 11 On sale starting Mon. Oct . 22 A'ITENTION: FRESHMEN, SOPHOMORES, JUNIORS t 1ENIORS -The Placement & Career Resources and Alumni Mfairs are sponsoring a homecoming Alumni Career Panel at 3 p.m. on Qc- tober 19. The career panels and alwnni panelists are: . COMMUNICATIONS Walter Tower'53 Richard Ferguson '67 Paul Gallant '62 • Joseph Kaknes '73 Albert Callan '41 LAW Jerold Kerscher '57 James Resiman '61 Dante Scaccia '45 Daniel Riesel '58 Peggy Miller '74 BUSINESS-FINANCE Thomas Hitchcock '66 Robert Bishop '43 John Davis '68 'I Robc;!rt Bischoff '46 Jill M. Stockm~ '74 HUMANITIES 112 President of Nimrod Press. Boston, Massachusetts . Vice President WE2N Radio Station Bridgeport, Conn. .Accounty Exec11tive Grey Advertising NewYork,N.Y. Publisher The Gloucester Magazine Gloucester, Mass. Editor and Publisber Chatham Courier Chatham, N.Y. HUMANITffiS 114 Real Estate Law New York, N.Y. ·Patent Law New York, N.Y. Trial Law Syracuse, N.Y. Environmental Law Litigation HUMANITIES 117 Conn. Mutual Life Boston, Mass. Senior Vice President New York Stock Exchange Assistant Vice President Irving Trust New York, N.Y.· Manager, lnternat. Marketing General Electric Utica, New York IBM This is a great opportunity to come and meet Union Alumni and gather information on how to make a transition from campus to careers. --REFRESHMENTS:-- . . I Peace Corps Recruiting Consider for a moment: There's a very large world out there, beyond the campus, beyond the city, beyond the state. It's a world in which your skills, your education, may be needed by a villager in Africa, a child in Latin America, a community in any of the 50 states. Representatives of the Peace Corps, the federal govern· ment's agency for volunteer service overseas; and VISTA (Bolunteers In Service To America), a similar program in the u.s., will be on thl'! campus October 29, 1979. These representatives will be conducting a general in- formation meeting on that day at 4 p. m. in the Strauss Lounge of Carnegie Hall. All students are invited to attend this meeting, which will be hosted by recruiter Catherine Streck, a former VISTA volunteer in northern Florida. A film will be shown, and the application process will be explained. Benefits for volunteers in- clude living- expenses, tran- sportation to and from country or state of assignment, training and medical benefits. VolWl- teers must be at least 18 years of age (though rarely does anyone under the age o£20 have the necessary skills, education or lllaturity), a U. S. citizen , (Peace Corps) or permanent resident and be in good health. A mil! relativj Union. deals~ in the ' an effe You 1 you ar1 jail for your c languai countr entire · These ''Priso Some whole-l United Interna wide. ) and ea1 prisone of SUI withou trial-.\ Amn1 imposil beliefs \acts o Natiom of Hun should en fore especia as thes Over Amnes1 some o Union ( like to Amnesl tributic at 393-0 6523. I commi' while y UP. in signatu minute Re Hugh at thE Profess directo1 give thj 1979-19B of the Churcll Schenec 7:30 p. Mr. include Dandri1 and Du will be, works · Paul H studied Dupre, pro visa wereFJ Schrad1 music< Leonh< harpsic Mr. Bolton: is well area a sichordl has' pre perforn States, Am eric concer season. will gi' Method which I on the Chapel Milita1 Point, t the WI church was th series Davis, Joan I Organ Westm MarilYJ

ow to If, I in t6 '11 et et a a a A 0 OONOORDIENSIS. October 18, 19\19 Page 13 roun am Amnesty· Amn~sty International is a relatively new organization at Union. It is unique in that it deals with human rights isslles in the wor~d, and tries to have· an effect on them. You don't have to worry that you are going to be thrown in jail for a belief, or because ()£ your color, sex, ethnic origin language or religion. In other countries such factors ar~ entire basis for imprisonment. These people are called \Prisoners of eonscienee. \' Some of the things that we whole-heartedly support in the United States, Amnesty International supports world wide. Amnesty \advocates· fair and early trials for all political prisoners and works on behalf of such persons detained without charge or without trial.\ Amnesty International is not imposing the United States' beliefs on another country. It \acts on the basis of the United Nations Universal Declaration of Human Rights.\ Everyone should be concerned with the _. enforcement of rights, especially ones as fundamental as these. Over the course of this year, Amnesty is going to ex:pose some of these problems to :the Union Community. If you would like to help select the issues, Amnesty would love your con• tributions. Call Laurie Brecher at 393-0252 or David Stern at 370· 6523. If you can't make this commitment, every once in a while you will see Amnesty set UP. in Carnegie trying to get signatures. Please take two minutes - it might save a life. Recital the Organ Department of the University of Mlchigan, and John Weaver of the Curtis Institute in Philadelphia. Mr. Weaver inaugurated last year's recital series at the First United Methodist Church. The review of Mr. Wilson's. stated \The program played for us on the sixte'enth was a beautiful example of musicianship, in- telligence and virtuosity. We oan ·Often get two out of three, but three out-of three is a rare treat. The series started in superlative fashion.\ The recital series of the First United Methodist Church are presented by the ·church in order to share its organ, built by Leonard Carlson of East Greenbush and cledicated in the fall of 1'977, with the public. The series are supported by the gifts of patrons and are offered without charge or collection Subsequent recital's in the current series are the following: January 13, Steven Rosenberry, organist at St Andrew's Episcopal Church in Albany; March 9, Scott Trexler, organist at Zion Lutheran Church in Schenectady; April 27, Gerald Hansen, organist at St. Paul's Lutheran Church in Albany and Chairman of the Music Department at the Schenectady County Com- munity College; June 8, Fred Brumbaugh, organist, and Joseph Becker, associate organist, . First United Methodist Church in Schenectady, New York. Lecture Walter T. Tower · Jr., president of The Nimrod Press Inc., Boston, will speak at Union College on improving the financial condition - of businesses at 4 p. m. October 18 in Bailey Hall. Entitled, ''Management Systems in Job Manufacturing Hugh Allen Wilson, Organist and Service Industries; or How at the Memorial Chapel, toStop Pa~ing your Bank~r and Professor of Music and choral Start Pay~ng the IRS, the director at Union College, will - speech w11l ~over Tower's give the opening concert in the · ~anageme.nt .Ideas for plan- 1979-1980 Organ Recital Series nmg, momtormg and cor:ttrol, of the First United Methodist and per¥ormance app~a1sals. Church 603 State Street The public ha~ been mv1ted. Schenectady, on dCtober 21 . at . Tower, pres1~ent. of Nimrod 7:30 p. m. ' s1~ce. 197~, mamt;;tms that the prmtmg mdustry IS one of the worst managed operations in the nation, despite the fact that it is sixth in total revenues. Nimrod Press has had a 20 percent compounded growth rate since Tower assumed control. A 1953 graduate of Union, Tower is a former faculty member of Masachusetts College of Art, and teaches each year in the Printing Industry of American Executive -Development Program. . Mr. Wilson's program will mclude music by J. S. Bach, Dandtieu, Brahms, Hindernith and Dupre. Of special interest will be his interpretations of the - works by two of his teachers, Paul Hindemith, with whom he studied theory, and Marcel Dupre, organ and irn· provisation. His other teachers were Frank Bozyan, organ~ I;,eo Schrade at Yale U nivers1ty, musicology, and Gustav Leonhardt of Amsterdam, harpsichord. • Mr. Wilson is a native .cf ~olton Landing, N~w York, and Is well known throughout tlrls area as an· organist, . barp sichordist, and conductor. He has· presented ne~rly 2000 public performances in the United States, Europe and SQuth America, and will continue his concert performances this s~ason. The program which he Will give at the First United Methodist Church is the one which he presented last month on the organ at the Cadet Chapel of the United States Military Academy in West Point, the third largest organ in the world and the largest church organ in the world. Ilis was the ,Pening recital in a series whlch includes John Davis, organist of the Chapel, Joan Lippincott, head of the Organ Department of the Wes~minster Choir College, Marilyn Mason, chairman ()f Truste~s On Continued from page 1 status for tenurable to tenured for professors Kenny, Gajjar Williams, Schmee, Schneller: Reynolds and Taylor, in their respective departments. This raised the number of faculty members with tenure to' 53 percent of the faculty. It was also noted that the ad- ministration, the Dean of Faculty in particular, had done a fine job of recruiting engineering professors~ one of the more difficult areas of recruitment due to the higher salaries provided in private industry. There was also a discussion of the type of tuition waiver that would be offerM1o the faculty in the future. Due to the com- plexity of the issue, it was referred back to the ad- . Speaker . Professor R. Douglas Arnold of Princeton University's Political Science Department will speak- on \Building Coalitions in Congress: Lessons for Jimmy Carter,\at 7:30p.m. October 18 at Union College. A 1972 graduate of Union, Arnold earned his Ph.D. at Yale and joined the Princeton faculty in 1977. His recent book Congress and the Bureaucracy; A Theory of Influence, is the definitive study of how bureaucrats go about allocating projects and benefits to congressional districts and how Congre·ssmen exercise in- fluence over the distribution of federal jobs and money. Arnold's lecture 'will deal with the strategies that presidents must use if they are to be success~ul in providing leadership to Congress. The lecture, part of the Lester Fund Speaker series, w111 be presented in. Strauss Lounge, Carnegie Hall. The program is sponsored by the College's Department of Political Science. Exchan_ge Students interested in ap- plying for the E. T. H. Exchange Scholar Program should apply before the end of October to professor William Martin (Chemistry Depart-· ment-S-339). The E. T. H. is the Swiss \M. I. T.\ and is located in Zurich, Switzerland. Qualifications require a major in engineering or a science, a.nd Dean's List status. German is the language used in courses so, candidates at the very minim~ must get irl two terms of German before the end of the spring tenn, 1980. Please act soon, even if uncertain of your interest; finding out about the program does not commit you, but we must select one or two nominees before Thanksgiving. Tuesday, October 23 - Make- up day for Informal Senior Pictures, 9-12 and 1·4 in Jackson's Gardens. The organizational meeting of U. ~· A. N., the Union College Anti-Nuclear Club, will take place on Tuesday, Oct. 23 at 7:30 in the Carnegie Hall conference room. John Cutro, a leading exponent of nuclear power, of the Capital District Anti-nukes Alliance will be the guest speaker. Refreshments will be served. Any questions: 382-9225, 370- 5661. Campus ministratio:rf for investigation with a recommendation to the Board expected sometime in the. future. It was noted that the Middle States Association ac- credit~tion process is .finally drawing to a close. Reports by the special campus committees are to be compiled in January and sent to the team of experts who will visit the college in February. The Board also reviewed the audit report for last year's budget. The only notable aspect of the report was that the influx of unexpected revenues more than covered the cost of the renovation of Garis Field and some other small unbudgeted items. Work on the budget for the 1980-81 academic year is progressing smoothly. - H·OMECOMING ' WEEKEND~ SCHEDULE OCTOBER 19, 20, 21 FRIDAY, OCTOBER 19 8.:30 a.m. to 4:30 p.nl': .. oPEN CLASSES; Attend selected Classes; join Union's students in lectures and seminars. Class schedules available at Lamont House. 9:00 a.m. to. 12:08 noon--STUDENT-ALUMNI GOLF TOURNAMENT--Schenectady Municipal Golf Course. Call ' the Alumni Office fer starting times. Greens fee--$5.00. 3:00p.m. to 4:30 p.m.·-ALUMNI CAREER PANELS--for st~dents and alumni--Humanities Building: · ' Communications--Room 112 Law--Room 1\14 Business-Finance--Room 117 4:30p.m. to 6:30 p.m.--OPEN HOCKEY TEAM PRACTICE-- Achi.lees Rink. Come and watch the Dutchmen practice! 6:30 p.m.··ANNUAL FUND CLASS AGENTS 01 NNER-- Paramount Lodge. Cocktails 6:30p.m., Dinner 7:30p.m. 8:30 p.m. to 10:30 p.m.--ICE SKATING--Achilles Rink. Alumni and Families, no charge. Rentals available at Rink. 9:00 ,p.m. & 11:00 p.m.--STUDENT-ALUMNI CABARET IN CARNEGIE HALL. Relax and enjoy \The Show\ at Union's unique night club. Reserved seats. Tickets are $1.00 and should be purchased at the A_lumni Office by 6:00p.m. a:oo p.m.-· KARLA BONOFF CONCERT--Memorial Chapel. Tickets on sale at Student Activities Office. SATURDAY, OCTOBER W 9:30 a.m.·-BREAKFAST WITH IHE DUTCHMEN FOOT- BALL TEAM. Coach Tom Cahill and the squad invite you to join them,\ Dutch Treat\ in West College Dining Room. 10:00 a.m. to 11:30 a.m.--ALUMNI ADMISSIONS REPRESENTATIVES WORKSHOP--Room 106, Rojansky Lecture Room, Steinmetz Hall. Conducted by the Admissions Office Staff, this is for all representatives and interested alumni. 10:30 a.m.--FIELD HOCKEY VS. RUSSELL SAGE-·Garis Field. 11:00 a.m. to 12:30 p.m.--DEPARTMENT RECEPTIONS. T_he foll_owing Departments have arranged programs, tours, dtscusstons, etc. Learn \what's new\ in your major and in other areas of interest to you. Meet faculty, students and alumni friends. · 11:30 a.m.·- LUNCH, ETC.--Look for the refreshment tent on Lamont House lawn. Beverages, hot dogs, hamburgers; etc.-- before and during the game. Sponsored by the Block U. Society. 12:00 noon--TERRACE COUNCIL LUNCHEON 12:00 noon to 1:15 p.m.--FRIENDS OF UNION ATHLETICS and Women's Athletics ReUnion, Warm Room Achilles Rink. Meet the Coaches! ' . 1:00 p.m.--RUGBY VS. RPI--Library Field. _ 1:15 p.m.--SKY-DIVING DEMONSTRATION--Union College Sky-Diving Club, Alexander Field. 1:30 p.m.--FOOTBALL VS. HOBART--Hobart Field. Half Ttme--Stephen P. Brown Memorial .Trophy Presentation. 4:30 p.m. to 5:30 p.m.--PRESIDENT'S RECEPTION-· Immediately following the football game, everyone is invited to m:et Union's new president, Dr. John S. Morris, in ~awttful Jac;kson's Garden or in Hale House if the weather i.s mclement. Music by Union Jazz Ensemble. Late Afternoon & Evening--FRATERNITY & SORORITY HOMECOMING PARTIES 8:00p.m. to 10:00 p.m.--HOMECOMING SQUARE DANCE-· Alumni Gymnasium. Refreshments served. Sponsored by Block U Society. Bring your sneakers! B:lOp.m.--MEN'S AND WOMEN'S GLEE CLUB CONCERT· -\A Night at the Pops\--Memorial Chapel. 10:00 p.m.--VICTORY CELEBRATION FIREWORKS-- Alexander Field. SUNDAY, OCTOBER 21 9:30a.m. to 12:30 p.m.--HUNT BREAKFAST at the Dutch Hollow Pub~AII you can eat buffet! Adults--$2.75; Under 12-- $1.25. .. GEN~·RAL I·NFORMATI\ON Sa CAtMPUS BOOKSTORE: Friday--8:45 a.m. to 4:45 p.m.; urday--11 :00 a.m. to 4:00p.m. ADMISSION INTERVIEWS: The Admissions Office will be open.~ll day FrJ.day a~d on Saturday from 9:00a.m. to noon spectftcall~ for .mtery1ew15 with alumni sons and daughters. The ~lu.mn1 Off1ce Will be happy to make an appointment for you m advance. DUTCH HOLLOW PUB: Friday, October 19 Lunch--11: 30 a.m. to 4:30 p.m. Dinner--5:00p.m. to 8:00p.m. Saturday, October 20 Lunch--11:30 a.m. to 2:30p.m. Dinner--5:00p.m. to 8:30p.m. Carnegie Hall--Lower Level Reservations for Dinner appreciated (518~370-6050} ' DON'T FORGET ReUnion Weekend 1980--June 13th, 14th, 15th

Page 14 ,_,;; OONOORDIENS18, OctQber 18, 19'19 Homecoming .Restaurant· Guide· Homecoming At THE PUB Dinner The Pumpkin Patch Featuring Steaks and Seafood M~onday fh,ru Thursday 5:00·10:00 Friday & Saturday 5:00-1'1:00 Happy lour 4-6 FREE Hors D''oeuvres We accept Master Charge and Visa Reservations are always a· good idea . Corner of Eastern Pkwy. & McCieUa n St., _, 393- 2186 120 Lake Hill Rd. Burnt Hills Old Homestead Country Kitchen Restaurant Featuring.: Vittles-Sippin'Spirits Bj.JJ Hall & Ken Renaud Your Hosts For Lunch: Deacon's Lunch, Granny's Favorite, Papa's Favorite For Dinner: Steaks, Turkey Shortcake, Skillet Chicken, Seafood, Fresh Hot Biscuits, Hot Apple Crisp, Hot Apple Pie FRI & SAT NIGHT _- BEEF AND BREW Open 7 days a week Dai·ly-10:30a.m.-10:30p.m., Sun. 1:30-9p.m. Make Reservations For Homecoming Weekend S~:~.nday Brunch 10-1 SUNDAY MORNING BRUNCH - all you can eat for $2.7_5 (eggs, bagels, doughnuts, etc.) - Don 'tFor!{et Happy Hour Friday Night !! Welcome A~lumnil Welcome Alumni I Fireside Pizzeria Inc. & Sandwich Pub \ Open Daily till 2:00 A.M. 393-0775 at 1631 Eastern Parkway (opp. Price Chopper) .. MORREnE'S ·RESTA:URANT 1126 Erie Blvd. Schenectqdy, NY Phone: 328-9550 - Monday - Thursday --- . ' 9 a.m. to 11 p.m. • Friday and Saturday -· 9 a .. m. to 1 a.m. On Homecoming __ Weekend Visit · Perrino's Resta-U~rant a.nd Cocktail Lounge Phone 374-4515 2015 Rosa Road Ralph Perrino, Proprietor Schenectady, N.Y.l2309 Facilit1es Available For: , , - PRIVATE PARTIES ~ ' BANQUETS- WEDDINGS',' ·- & BUSINESS LUNCHES it IT ALIA\- - AMERICAN FOOD SEAFOOD FAMILY STYLE LUNCHEON- DINNER - COCKTAILS Open 7 Days A Week ..------3~7-4-. --8~1-6.--.4----.l ~725 ~AN VRANKEN AV. ~~ Steak & Ale is proud to present these SPECIALS for Homecoming Weekend: . Prime Rib Speci~l - $6.95 London Broil ~ $5.95 Don't .for~e.t. . . Happy Hour Baked Scallops • $6.95 Baked Haddock • $5.95 These dinners include: -SOUP - -BAKED POTATO OR RI_CE Friday Night 9:30- 10:30 -·BREAD AND BUTTER -SAlAD BAR - - For . reservations, call 372-5629 2310 Nott Street . ., I Tl tear vicl mat the the pla~ doul thel witt only The agai rept club - darr and ·cr spor tean The coun Satu allm surp the cour Cent SiE divic took poin1 Stat1 SCOrl also of th espe coae the C top ~ chan Al1 StatE of f. runn deptl 37 se of U ner. As chan was quali Alth< less 1 the fi WI WI .·Til co h Th intra way. annu Sund tWOS< Jeff title finis! In nam1

OONOORDIENSI8, October 18~ 1979 Page 15 sports • Women' Tennis Looks To Tourney The Union Women's tennis team was close to claiming victory in last Thursday's match against Oneonta, when the opposition edged ahead in the final doubles match. l)nion played five singles and three doubles matches. Ability-wise the Union women were up to par with Oneonta and their loss by only. one match confirmed this. The team did not ·fare as well against Albany who has a reputation of being a ·· strong club. Union's 8-1 defeat has not dampened the women's spirits and they are psyched to travel to Rochester on l:<'riday for a three day tournament. This, being the highlight of the season, wiU give the Union women an opportunity to pl~y various schools from all over New York state. Union wiU bring two singles and two doubles teams to Rochester. Senior Renee Venuti, the number one singles player, will bring her strong serve to the tournament. Coach Robert Driscoll is pleased with the commitment that the players have r;nade to the team. In the past, practices were not regularly attended and there was not a permanent coach. Now the team goes to a practice as if they were playing an in- tercollegiate match. \The roung team is learning to compete,\ Coach Driscoll siad. With the strength of such _ solid ·players as Ms. Venuti of Newburgh . and Junior Judy Kilday of Bristol, Ct., and the determination of Freshman Sue Maroni of North Adams, Mass., Driscoll is confident that the team will continue to play hard. Runners Place 2nd In Capital District ·cross-country is an individual sport, but there is nothing like teamwork to insure success. The Union College cross- country team pl'oved just that Saturday, as close teampacking allowed the Dutchmen to post a surprising second place finish in the Capital District Cross- country Championships at Central Park. Siena College, led by in- dividual winner Tom Dalton, took the team title with 26 points. Union edged Albany State for second by a 57 - 60 score. RPI and Hudson Valley also competed. Finishing ahead of the Albany State squad was especially gratifying to Union coach Ted Bick since last year the Great Danes finished in the top 20 at the Div. III national championships. Although several Albany State runners finished in front of Adam Licht, Union's top runner, the Dutchmen's overall depth proved decisive as a mere 37 seconds seperated the finish of Union's first and sixth run- ner . As would be expected in a championship meet, the race was characterized by high quality exciting competition. Although Dalton easily won, less than one minute seperated the finish of the race runner-up from the 15th pLace finisher. Freshman Adam Licht again lE~d the Union sq).lad. Despite being tripped by~ Siena runner midway through the race, Licht finished strong to place 7th with a time of 32:26 for the· 10,000 meter course. Nineteen se-conds later, Jack Connor~ the second Union runner, entered the chute in the 11th position. Then in rapid succession came the remainder ofthe Union pack to seal Albany's -fate. Ed Arnehiter finished 12th in 32:52, Dave Dellehunt finished 13th in 32:56, closely followed by John Casale and Pete Vielkind in the 14th and 15th positions. Tom Hallenbeck rounded out the team scoring with a 26th place ·finish. Sixty runners competed in the varsity race. Licht has now been the top finisher for the Dutchmen in the past three meets. The slender freshman ex:pressed satisfaction with his per- formance, but felt he was still a couple of we~ks away from peaking and was \looking for bigger things in the' future-.\ Freshman teammate Ed Arnheiter echoed Licht's sentiments. Arnheiter said, \In two weeks we are going to be at our best.\ Dennis Conteis led the junior Dutchmen to a fifth place finish in the JV race. Conteis finished 11th in 34:48. Joe Londa added a 14th place finish and Wizard Wisnewski, a 24th place finish. Conteis later related how the varsity race had got him psyched up for the subsequent JV race. The Schenectady native said, \After seeing our guys finish together I was really pumped up, I couldn't wait for my race to start.\ Freshman Inge Stockman and Joan O'Connor led the women harriers to a strong showing in the non-scoring women's race. Stockman captured the runner-up spot ·- with a time of 19:26 while . O'Connor finished 5th in 21: 12. Polly Wheeler finished 12th in 23: 13 with Laura Kronk adding a 14th place showing. The team was without the services of freshman Danielle Cherniak who was competing in the Skylon Marathon in Buffalo. Cherniak finished fifth in the women's division with a time of 3:06.00. The Union men's squad, now 6-3 on the· year, hopes to con- tinue its success this Saturday when they meet archrival RPI . in Troy. The women'steam will travel to Oneonta on the same day to run in the Hartwick Women's Invitational. Field Hockey Defeats Sage Union Women's.Field Hockey refuses to be beaten. Russel Sage was the latest victin1 to succomb to Union's powerful stickwork. Buthaina Shukri, with an assit by Nancy Colt, started the scoring in the first half with a goal at 14:00. Though this was the only scoring in the half, the Union women totally dominated the field. Russel Sage had the ball on Union territory only four times in. the entire game. Union also had 20 shots on goal to Sage's four. The links, consisting of Nancy Colt, Buthaina Shukri, and Emily Monosson backed up the forward line, as well as themselves. If a Sage player dodged a defensive player, the links would repossess the ball immediately. Holly Howard kept Russel Sage on the alert by scoring goal number two, three . minutes into the second half. Junior Lorin Neenan, with an assist by Ms. Shukri, opened the lead for Union with a goal midway through the half. Minutes later, Kim Tranan of Sage broke Union's defensive barrier for the first time and scooped the ball into the Cage for a Sage goal. Ellen Heininger scored the fourth and final goal with four minutes left in the game to cap off the victory 4-1. Coach Morrison felt that the Union-Sage game exhibited the skills of the players better than any past team effurt. She is pleased with the way scoring is balanced throughout the team. Buthaina Shukri, Holly Howard and Ellen Heininger lead the team scoring with five goals apiece. Deb Downey follows with two goals for the season. Emily Monosson and Lorin Neenan complete the scoring roster with one goal apiece. Other dubs cannot double team Union's players because of the wide distribution of scoring skills. The Varsity players owe their improving skills to the strength of the Junior Varsity team who play strong at practices and scrimmages. The Junior Varsity te&m, led by Senior Captain Linda Rumbold, tied an evenly matched game against Russel Sage. Though there was no scoring in either half, there were many scoring op- portunities. The last ten minutes of each half were Union dominated but the team could not get the ball in the cage. Karen Weisgarber was out- standing as goalie, making m&ny excellent saves and clears. Linda Rumbold was another key player in Satur-· day's game. Ms. Rumbold charges up the team with her dynamic. personality, and constantly gives her all. Watch the Varsity Women's Field Hockey team face off against Russel Sage again at home this Saturday morning at 10:30. There's no better way to start off Homecoming weekend! WHERE: West College Field WOMEN'S 'RUGBY Men~s Tennis Looks Strong WHEN: Mon & Thurs Afternoon . TIME: 3 .. Everyone is welcomed CONTACT: Tan:-my Beesley 382-9545 by ROY LIPSON Strong recruiting is the name of the game, as Coach Bob Driscoll's young team of four freshman and two sophomores stole a 5-4 decision from an experienced R. P. I. squad. Union, missing it's number one and two players, seniors Roy Intramural Notes byDAVEPACE . This years Un.ion College mtramural season ts well under way. The first activity was the annual golf : tournament held Sunday, September ninth. The twosome of Mike Hucko and ~ eff Cring brought home the title for D.U. Glen Friedman finished with the low score of 85. In tennis, the doubles tour- nament. which started with 20 teams came down to the finals matching Spiegal and Friefield, against Narrasky and Lynn. The match is upcoming. Platform tennis is also un- derway. Of the 40 teams that entered, the double team of Dean and Flynn from Chi Psi are the pretournament favorites. The table tennis tournament was held last night (Wed.) The winner of the 18 teams entered will be announced next week. In coming events, the 8-ball pool tournament will start Oct. 25. Sign ups are the 24th. Finally, are the grueling x- country runs, the seventh an- nual race will be held Friday; October 26 at 4 p.m. Students faculty and alumni are eligible. Registration will be in th,e in· tramural office, located in the alumni gym. Lipson and Jeff Cohen, showed its versatility and depth by startling R.P.I., in one of Union's closest matches in recent y.ears. This matchup saw six 3 set matches of which Union took four. The closest match of the ·day was pulled out by Freslunan Steve Eskenazi at number one singles, who lost the first set 4~. but came back to win 6-4 afid then 7-6 in the final set. Steve won the match by 2 points as his strong desire won him the tiebracker 5 points to 3. Freshman Dave Patalita won 3-6, 6-4, 6-2 at thE~ number two spot. A strong setvEir. and volleyer, Dave got stronger as the match went on. Sophomore Tom Lestina, after a slow sta11 took the number three singles witn a 2-6,6-3,6-4 win. Tom, who likes the slower courts that we have here a.t Union, adjusted his game in the second and third sets, thus exemplifing his versatility. The last singles match finished was won in front of a cheering Union squad. Sophomore, Stu Bober broke his opponent at 4 all in the final set arid came back strong to hold serve and win the match 7-6, 3~, 6-4. Unions two singles losses were at the number 4 and number 6 singles. Bob Stratton and Howard Brodsky, both fresbmen lost in close three set matches, 6-4, 4-6,4-6 < nd 1-6, 6-4, 4-6 respectively. Bob avenged his singles loss when he teamed up with Steve Eskenazi at number two doubles to win Union's only doubles match of the day, 6-4, 6-4. This was U~ions fifth win, and the game wmner .. All in all it is quite pleasing to see such young team go out and win its first match of the year. The team is looking forward to hard workouts for the rest of the fall and winter terms. They will be returning to action this spring, for what looks like a most promising year of tennis.

Page 16 CONOORDIENSIS, October 18, 1979 . . . 5porta . . . ' \ . ~ ' ' ' ' ' ' < \ • • ' t ' ' • ' • • • Football Wins State's Oldest Rivalry c: \' E c: Ill E 0 :r \' v c: j ). J:l 0 0 ct Dutchmen defensive huddle discusses strategy. The defense was the key in disappointing RPI banner holders. Do·wns Rival Williams: V olleyhall Wins Oh, the sweet taste of revenge. The Union Women's Volleyball team had a land- mark victory last Thursday, beating a tough Williams club for the first time since the rivalry began. Williams was 10- 0 before Union spiked the competition out of bounds with an 8-15; 15-5; 15-7 win. The game was a total team effort with every player contributing an outstanding performance. Though the first game con- tained too many mistakes to pull out ahead, the Uni()n women were psyched for the second and third games in which everything clicked. Skillful setting, blocking and serve reception sent Union's competition to the showers. After winning to utica and losing to Albany Tuesday night, the Dutchwomen boast a 6-2 record. The Volleyball squad won their match against Utica 15-10, 1&.8. Though tbe Utica victory pleased the team, their real challenge was to set up and block successfully against a tough Albany club. Albany has won the Division III title in tbe past and is vying for the state title again this year. The Field House was filled with tension as the Union Women proceded to win their first game 15-9. Albany cap- tured the second game 11-15. The decisive third match was the closest of the night. Though Union deserved to win, they surrendered a tightly-played game to Albany, 14-16. The Volleyball team will play Hudson Valley and Skidmore tonight at 7 in the Memorial Field House. With every suc- cessive victory, the Union women come closer to winning the Division III title in Buffalo on November 9-10. If the game against Williams is any in- dication of how the rest of the season will be played, the team outlook should be both en- thusiastic and optimistic. The following girls complete the '79 Volleyball roster:' Co- captains Jill Thomson and Sheila O'Donnel, Kathleen Schatzle, Sue Marr, Kelly Green, Natalie Stone, Brenda Hugick, Lynn LeBlanc, Alicia Grenlund, Amy Hinshaw, Karen Roth and Lydia Canavan. 01 I 8i c: .5 >- D 0 \ ~.·· l \;f&fttAx:~- Senior Kevin Kormcndy af.ter intercepting the first of two passes. Union_will wear the \Dut- chmen's Shoes\ for the fifth straight year, earning them by beating RPI 13-3 on Saturday. A full house of spectators watched the Dutchmen spoil the Engineer's undefeated record in the state's oldest rivalry. RPI managed to get on the scoreboard first when an Engineer drive to the 21 yard line resulted in a field goal by kicker Steve Schriber only seven minutes into the game. Union defense took over after this, allowing no more RPI scores. Union got on the board early in the second period. After being forced to punt, Dan May's kick was misfielded by RPI's safety, Vic Baranowski and three Union players pounced on the loose ball. Three plays later, Kevin Frederick received a pitchout from Quarterback Dana Johnston and ran six yards to paydirt for Union's only touchdown of the day and a 7-3 lead, proving to be an that Union needed. The Dutchmen increased their lead to seven on their next possession. After driving 43 yards, Dan May toed a 28 yard field goal to make it 10.3. May turned in his usual solid per- formancescoring7 of Union's 13 points, four in the second period and three more insurance points in the fourth quarter on a thirty yard blast. Union defense was back in prime form this week, stopping two RPI drives dead at the one yard line in the second half. Rich Romer had another fine <.: Ill E - 0 I \' u c: Ill _J ,... J:l 0 0 .s= 0.. game, gaining 166 of Union's 180 total yards on offense. Romer had 103 yards on the .ground in 28 carries while turning two completions into 63 yards. Union, now 2-2, looks forward to Homecoming this weekend when they will host Hobart. RPI, suffering their first loss this season is now 2-1-1. EXTRA POINTS: Senior Co- captain Ron Plumb was injured in Saturday's game and will be out for the season. Plumb will undergo tests to determine if he needs an operation. It looks like he out the of tbe ·.F' season .. Mark Palomba also sustained an injury in Saturday's game. Palomba's ankle was badly spraified but he's expected to be 'back in action on Saturday vs. Hobart .. In a final n.ote~ it looks like the Union Dutchman's Cannon will be coming home this year for Homecoming. Missing since last year's RPI game, the Cannon was reported spotted at RPI this past Saturday. Bob Ridings will negotiate with an RPI representative for tne Cannon's return: Senior Kevin Frederick scor.ing the lone touchdown.· Soccer Wins Two After three consecutive losses in the past two weeks to Saint Lawrence, Hamilton and Albany, the varsity soccer team rebounded to post two shutout victories this week. On Satur(lay the Booters traveled to Troy to play arch- rival RPI. The Dutchmen had a clearly superior team. With outstanding hustle and skill, the Dutchmen dominated most of the play both on the ground and in the air. Coach Magee was a bit apprehensive that his players would be sluggish- but as soon as the match began his fears were removed. In the early going, the Dut- chmen controlled the play with Keith Miller and John Krum clogging the middle and distributing the ball to the outside Dutchmen forwards. Union had several opportunities in the first half but they did not cash in until fifteen minutes and seventeen seconds into the game. Keith Miller gained control of an RPI goal kick and fed the ball back into Hans Bukow. Bukow fed the ball to an overlapping Brian Shea who crossed the ball to Jim Stoothoff. Stoothoff used ex- cellent body positioning to get a piece of the ball and direct it into the net. Union scored again in the first half when Mike Canning broke down the right wing and crossed the ball into Hans Bukow who headed the ball in for the second and final Union goal. The second half saw the Dutchmen's play slip and RPI gained a few more scoring opportunities. Fortunately, Doug Crawford's largest challenge of the day occured in the first half wben RPI had a - postly kick. The RPI Hooter failed to score on both the original kick and the re-kick. The shooter was awarded a re- kick when Crawford left the goal line early on the first kick. Both shots went wide of the net. On Tuesday, the Booters raised their record to 4-3, beating Sienna. Union produced their most potent scoring attack of the year, scoring five goals in the second half. Co-captain Keith Miller broke the ice ten minutes into the half as he headed a Mike Canning pass into the net. Union began to roll. Evan Krinick and Mike Canning both drilled home shots- for the Dutchmen. Tanie Hilton finished off the day for Union as he scored two more goals to boost the score to five. On both shots, Hilton dribbled up from his fullback position through the Sienna defense and blasted a pair of thirty yard shots. Sophmore George Rones gained his first career shutout in the nets. Saturday the Booters travel to Hartford to play Trinity, then return home for a hard-nosed match with Division ·One rival Colgate. Sports Happenings Oct. 18-0ct. 24 Varsity Football Varsity Soccer J. V. Soccer Cross Country Women's Tennis Field Hockey Women's Volleyball 0Gt. 20 vs. Hobart - Oct. 20 at Trinity · Oct. 23 vs. Colgate Oct. 20 at Trinity Oct. 20 at R PI Oct. 18at RusseU Sage Oct. 20-21 at Rochester Oct. 23 at RPI Oct. 20 vs. Russel·! Sage Oct. 23 at RPI Oct. 22 vs. Russell Sage, Siena. Oct. 24 at RPI . ' - Vol - F Oi For1 disc Coli Alsc com whi< stud P1 Cha: . Oral govE outli arne syst' \fril FriE cord mitt arne neitl of tt Me clari repc men such arne that coun stud Stud, votir Fo disc· ame1 Foru dra~ cerni ame1 unfri from subn Foru the Collll Tb1 ame1 frien divis facul bers: Facu ment the I divisi libra1 '. '' ,.._, .... ) fo re pr wl 110 \( ' In a: o, Ti · s.t

FoltndeJ at Union College 1877 VoL 109, No: 6 (;overnance Discussed: Forum Convene-s by ANDREW WISOFF Once again, the Student Forum met on Monday night to discuss the proposed new College Governance System. Also ·discussed was the up- coming library hours. survey, which will be distributed to students sometime next week. Professor Byron Nichols, Chairman of the Governance participation in. college governance, and restrict voting rights of administrators with faculty status.\ This particular amendment should invoke considerable discussion among the faculty. The Student Forum will probably yield to whatever decision the faculty makes concerning the organization of the faculty, as it is hoped that . the faculty wm yield to the Student Forum amendment concerning the student · mem- bership on the Student Affairs Continued on page 10 ' Schenectady, New York Thursdoy,,Oct. 25, 1979 Uni~n's field hockey squad, 1979 version. . Drafting Committee, began the governance discussion with an outline of each of the ten amendments to the proposed system which were deemed \friendly\ by the eorrimittee. Friendly amendments, ac• cording to the drafting \com- mittee's criteria, were those amendments which violated neither the spirit nor the letter of the Governance Report. Field Hockey Seeded Number One Most friendly amendments clarified the wording of the report or specified student membership on sub-councils, such as the Student Forum amendment which specified that the Student Conduct Sub- council shall consist of nine students . and the Dean of Students' designee, as a non~ voting member. Following the relatively brief discussion of the friendly amendments, Nichols and the Forum moved· on to a more drawn-out discussion con- cerning the 18 \unfriendly\ amendments. Twelve of the unfriendly amendments (!arne from the faculty, five were submitted by the Student Forum, and one was written by the Governance Drafting Committee itself. Tbe first three of the faculty amendments labelled · un- friendly concerned the divisional organlzation of the faculty and the -voting mem- bership of . the ''General Faculty!' Unfriendly amend- ment nrimber two, if voted by the faculty, would \alter the divisional status of professional librarians . . . restrict their by BARB PLOTKIN Four weeks ago, Coach Marty Morrison stated her objectives for the '79 Women's Field Hockey team. They were: 1) to be selected for tbe Division III state tournament which will be held this weekend at Hamilton College in Clinton, N.Y.: 2) once selected to take one of the top a spots in the Division; .3) to eventually win the state toumament in Division III. Union has not only been selected for the state tour~ nannent but. has been ranked number ONE among the top eight teams in Division III in New York State. ~ UColl was given a saylor system rating of 3.6 out of a possible 4.0. According to this rating system a team is given four points if they win a Div. III team, 0 points for a loss in Div. III, five points for a Div. II win and two points for a loss. This total is then·· divided by how many schools the team has played. Union outscored the fol~owing teams in descending order of rank: Potsdam, Manhattanville; William Smith. Houghton, University of Buffal«;> Hamilton and the University of Rochester. \I'm delighted we're the top seed in the state. It's an honor On Tuesday, October 30 at 8 p.m. Spyro Gyra will be per- forming at Union College's Memorial Chapel. With the release of their first lp, SPYRO GYRA, they were voted most promising\new pop-instrumental group by Record Worlc:lf while at the same time hitting s.ix different Billboard charts; not only' with the album but also with the instrumental single \Shaker Song\ Which made the national charts as welL Born in Buffalo In 1975, In four short years they have become quite a success with the release of their second album, MORN lNG DANCE. Opening forSpyroGyra will be the 24th Street Band. Tickets available in Carnegie Hall--$4.00 for Union College · students. for the field hockey team and it is a special honor for Union College,'' Ms. Morrison said. Field hockey is only in its fifth year at Union and She feels its rapid growth reflects .a com- mitment to excellence in Women's athletics. The only disadvantage to being seeded number one is that the lesser ranked teams will always ''try harder''. The other field 'hockey - clubs will ~ psyched to dethrone Union from her number one position .. This will not be an easy task. There is every indication that the t)Coll Women will play as dynamically in the tournament as they have all season. The most recent victory of the season was a 4-0 shutout over Russe.I Sage. After twenty five nonscoring minutes in the first half, Emily Monosson, with a3sists by Holly Howard and Ellen Heininger, drove the ball into the cage. Before Sage's defense could position them- selves, sophomore :Mona Klepp scored goal number. two on a powerful unassisted drive.- Leading scorer, Ellen Heininger barely gave the goalie time,to recover from the two previous goals before planting a third in the cage with an assist by Holly Howard. Ms. Heininger scored the only goal of the second half, thereby wrapping up the shutout game for Union. Though Union dominated the first half, allowing the ball to cross the fifty yard line only five _ times, goalie· Nora Sosnoff got her share of the action in the second half. Despite the at- tac.king pressure of a fire<t up Sage team, Ms. Sosnoff gave herself the shutout with ex- ceptionally good clears and saves. Left back Lisa Stern displayed her overall dynamic hockey skills by helping Ms. Sosnoff ward off the opposition. The forward line displayed their steady brand of aggressive hockey. When Diane Fenaroli, Lorin Neenan and Kirsten Peterson charged down the field in the second half, they maintained the strong offensive pace of the preceding half. Both Varsity and Junior Varsity teams pleased a well attended Homecoming crowd. The Junior Varsity team trailed Sage 0-1 at 20:50 when freshman Mary Delaney tie.d the half up with a 1-1 score. Ms. Delaneyt a powerful attack line player~ assured the UColl Women o'r a victory when she drove the winning goal into the cage in the second half. Under the quality leadership of Linda Rwnbold, all the players, especially Laurie Magee and Emmy Lou Hessebnan, have contributed to the tremendous improvement of the game over the past season. REMINDER: The UColl Women will travel to Hamilton today, playing their first game Friday morning with the University of Rochester. The winner of that game will go on to play the victor of the Hot~ghton-William Smith game at 1 p.m. The championship game will take place Saturday at 1 p.m. on field one. Fonn carpools and cheer the Field Hockey team onto a state tournament victory. Amendments Rel~eased The Drafting Committee on Governance last week released a list of amendments classified as \unfriendly\ (because they violated either the spirit or the letter of what had been included in the numbered proposals) to be voted on next week by the General Faculty and the Student Forum.' The amend- ments, listed in the order in which they will be considered, are: 1. A motion to remove part- time faculty from voting membership in the General Faculty. This motion, which was made by Dean P~ula Brownlee and seconded by Associate Dean Alan 'Nelson, would change the description of the General Faculty to read: \The General Faculty shall include all full-time individuals who now have faculty status.\ 2. An amendment introduced by two members of the faculty who requested anonymity, proposes that the Divisional status of professional librarians be altered and that their par- ticipation in College governance be restricted. The amendment also calls for the restriction of voting rights of Administrators with faculty status. 3. Professors Anton Warde and Helen Ouellette of the Modern Languages Department proposed to have Divisional reptesenfatives nominated by their Divisions but elected by the General Faculty. 4. A proposal to stipulate Division representation among student members of the Academic Affairs Council, submitted by Professors Gajjar and Galantowicz .of the Elec- trical Engineering Department. 5. Dean Paula Brownlee and Professor Anton Warde in- troduced an amendment to clarify the responsibilities of the Academic Affairs Council. 6. Professors Gaiiar and Galantowicz also submitted a proposal to require Depart- mental approval of policy recommendations of the Academic Affairs Council which involve only one departmental discipline. 7. The Student Forum unanimously voted to add an amendment to stipulate a specific membership on the standing Sub-council on the Academic Standing of Students. 8. Professors Henry M. Butzel and Francis L. Lambert of the. Biology Department sent an amendment to the committee which asked for a change from 10 to 20 percent of faculty required to sign a petition to call for a meeting of the General Faculty to debate a recom- mendation of the Academic Affairs Council. 9. The Student Forum requests to. be involved in the work of the Academic Affairs Council; the Forum voted unanimously. 10. The Student Forum requests to eliminate the Student Affairs Council's authority to supervise student activities; the Forum voted unanimously. 11. Professor William Zwicker of the Department of Mathematics and Ann Seeman of the library staff asked to add a third junior faculty member to the Faculty Review Board and to deal with one possibly consequence of such a change. 12. Ruth Anne Evans and Ann M. Seeman .of the library in- troduced an amendment to add the Affirmative Action Officer of the College to the Faculty Review Board as an observer. 13. An amendment to give the General Faculty the right of formal approval of policies established by the Faculty Review Board, submitted bv Continued on page 4

Page 2. OONOORDIENSIS, Oct.ober B5, 1979 Editors-in-Chief News Editor Features Editors Layout Editors Sports Editor ·Photo Editor Assistant Men's Sports Editor Women's Soorts Editor Arts Editors Calendar .. Doug Rosenfeld Sara Simmons Paul Feinsot Donna Creeley Sue Barnhart Rachel Mandel Danny Wojnilower · Mark Palomba Pat Wright, · KlChHope Barb Plotkin . Cindy Aranow Ellen Berger, Maria Manfredonia Photo Staff Layout Staff Copy Editor Classifieds Staff Business Manager Subscriptions Jeff Winter .•. Jeff Steinberg Steven Krisky. Beth Meyer Fran Teitel, Melissa Gold Ellen Van Dyke Roberta Moss Jill Brice, Ellen Rubin, Brian Shea., Ellen Rubin, Gary Glauber, Karen Covey Carole Reinig · Scott Witkin, · CONCORD£ENSIS is published every Thursday by the student body of Union College, Carnegie Hall, Schenectady, New York, 12308; Publications Office: Susquehanna Publications, !ric., 8~2 Reynolds Ave., Oneonta, New York 13820, (607) 432-6737. Entered m ·the Schenectady Post Office as third class matter. Subscription . rate: 35 cents per copy, $10 per year, delivered anywhere in the . United States. Sick And Tired by GARY GLAUBER Why is it that so much of the art in modern society is ob- sessed with the sick and han- dicapped? Is it a reflection of our society's sickness, a modern affection for affliction that invites worry? No longer is there the per- fection of man apparent once in art of ages lost. Now there is a widespread acceptance of the imperfect man, replete with psychological problems and hungry for insights and s6lutions. Have we moved away from the idea of identification with characters or more towards it? I admit that l'm a bit confused here. When it's taken to the extremes of ter- minal illness, I'm fairly distanced from what J read, see and hear. Again I hear myself asking, Why does one have to be ill first to be healthy; why must one taste death to really know life? . Thanks To the Editors: From aU reports received, Homecoming Weekend 1979 was enjoyed by everyone. The in-- volvement of many alumni, students, faculty and staff in planning the events of the weektnd was essential to its succ( ss. A special thanks goes to t!1e . Student Committee, headed by Barry Miller '80, and literally hundreds of students, for their participation. · To thank each person in- volved would make this letter endless, but on behalf of the Alumni Council and the Alumni Office, I offer a huge THANK YOU to an of you. Harry Demgen Director of Alumni Affairs Blatant • , . ...,..,,...,,.,, ~OW\I~'g' To the Editors: The pressing and pragmatic plagiarism problem h~s once again reared its proverbial ugly head. The hundreds, nay, thousands of recent reports concerning students \getting away with'' obvious, blatant, and even outright out-and-out not really very subtle borrowing (i.e., copying word for word) have caused me to seriously doubt the integrity of not only my fellow students, but of the faculty and administra.tien as well. Plagiarism is a serious offense to the academic com- mtmU;y, because it threatens the _ basis of the academic enterprise--the growth and tratnulg. ofthestudent's as Humor: records of other minds. Plagiarism ~weakens our con- fidence in the solidity and . reliability of a scholar's work. It injects fraud and dlleeit into a relationship built upon trust and respect. Plagiarism is the theft of written material, with the intent of presenting the work of anotfler person as one's own. Sometimes the freshperson who would shrink from using his or her roommate's toothpaste will \porrow\ outrageously from his or her term paper without conscience. Suspicions and accusations of plagiarism .are always very unplea~ant, on both sides. The instructor who detects the offense is irritated because the fueident forces on him or her a role he or she would like to avoid-that of polieeperson rather than teacher. Thus, he or she often intentionally fails to notice the seriaus breach of academic' Winners To the Editors: This F~dPs Blood Dri.ve was success; a total of 212 were collected and 53 tmn-ume donors participated. Th winners of the Keg Contest Theta Delta Chi, Delta Gamma, McKean House, and Second Floor South College. I thank the blood donors, Lorraine Marra, and Alice Swanson, for their greatly-needed help. P 1 ease keep in mind the Winter Term Blooq Drive scheduled for January 17 and 18. Congratulations keg -winners. · Thankyou, GeoffTolge Student Recruiting Chairman at Union for the American Red Cross .,,:l~!:!.~~=~g::;,i~ ..•. ,Sk,~lla 0 r . .,. ,>· !:~r:;:ri~n ::!Y~u!:~d t~~ . Rep 1 i·es practice to continue is beyond my comprehension. I demand that the Student Senate or the All College Forum (or whatever it's called) establish a Com- mittee on Really Blatant Copying to draft and implement rules to stop this plagiaristic plague. From now on, I expect you all to resist the temptations and pressures that may lead you to consider plagiarism in any form or degree. I cry out to the campus community! PLEASE HEAR MY PLEA,! From this point on, the responsibility for your own behavior is squarely on your sflo.ulders. T(l the Editors; As the manager of the vuwu College Ra~kellar, I like to repJ.y to the allegations. made in the October 18th article entitled \How To Be A Rat.\ The paints of criticism were: 1) Food items on the menu are not always available for sale; 2) The paint and physical ap- pearance of the Rathskellar; 3} The tables and chairs broken; 4) The rest rooms are dirty. ' I assume full responsibility · for the inconsistency . in av-ailability of menu items. This been It seems that everywhere you turn today, you are accosted with tales of the infirm. Movies, television, books. More often than not, the tale is a \How I overcame my handicap\ deal, once again pleading the nor- malcy of the \sick\ and their fine ability to adapt and live in this world. I, for .one, have had my fine share of these worn and wounded tale-teller-s. Is it just our anxiety over illness that turns society's art over to the recovery ward? True, we live in the \cancer generation,\ but does the germ have to eat away at the quality of our culture? Marxist critics such as Geotg Lukacs would cite the \sickness\ as a sign of the modern decadence of capitalism. Cites Lukacs in his article Healthy or Sick Art?, \Not without reason dld Thomas Mann characterize modern decadence as sympathy with disease, decay and death.\ Then again, Lukacs and other Marxists would probably deny that any capitalist could live life to the fullest. Capitalism, they claim, deadens the soul with its mystifying forces, providing alternatives (like sickness) to living life. I ask to prove them wrong. Is the American who lives life to the fullest a possibility? I hope so for all of our sakes. My pleas are to the arts as the forwn of public example, as the barometer of society itself. My questions seek answers in defense of society, not those anxious to join in its easy decay. Procrastination Plagues Why is it that we need illness or infirmity for our modern-day protagonists to realize that they shQllld be living life to the fullest? The fact that the average man, the '.'normal\ man does not live life to the fullest unless threatened by handicap or fear of death is the real sickness inherent in this issue. One might argue that the purpose of these \sicknesses\ are only for the prescribed health of the general populace. Perhaps, after viewing one who has \come back to life\ after an illness or handicap, we are all supposed to learn our lesson as if we had been the victims ourselves. But I doubt that. Aside from the absorption quality of mindless en- tertainment that the arts have been reduced to, the premises make for a very poor argument. I wonder if it is possible to have a hero who can lead life to its very fullest, grasping each moment as if newly born, without some turning point of disease or serious confinement to wheelchair or worse. Is such a thing possible, considering the present state of mental health in society? Look around. More and more, we have become a country of crutches. Perhaps this glorification of sickness is only the sad representation of our Rick society? We are in a time that is ripe for change. People are looking for answers. Daily they turn to Eastern philosophies, to psychologists, to religions, to therapies. Surely someone of the teeming multitudes has found a way to really live life without the benefit of some debilitation or disease. .Let us find these pe,ople in our art, in our literature, cinema and television. My sympathies have · been with the uncommon ex- ceptions for too long. \Give me nonnal.\ I propose it as a motto for those who are presently ill and exhausted from the sick and tired in art. by DAVID WOLLIN Monday: (I think I'll start to write my article for Con- ~r<liensis) What is the one word that is the epitome of every student at Union College. . .(NO!! l. . . \Partying\ is wrong ... though it is a close second). I'll give you a clue ... If I didn't procede in executing this one word, the article you are now .reading would have been in last week's issue of Coneordiensis. . . (NO! !! . . . \Get Drunk and Pass Out\ is more than one ~ord ... but it's close ... it also happened). Give Up??? The answer, that you have been waiting for, and that plagues every student at Union College is ... PROCRASTINATION. Tuesday: (Forget it!!. . .I'll write this article later) There is a special and unique jargon that all college students use in trying to reliev,e them- selves of the ,onslaught of school work. . . (It's called ·''Excuses\). Some of the more memorable sayings that will live in the Procrastination Hall of Fame (Carnegie, Fifth Floor. .. Well if there~was a fifth floor .. . ) , are: \I'll get my work done when: Schenectady becomes a thriving metropolis\ or \When I get an A+ in Economics. . ,(And if you have ever taken Economics. . • ) \ or\When my Bio Rhythms reach a reasonable level\. Other favorites include: \I'll get my work done when we have Co-ed showers ... (or \I'll do anything for Co-ed showers\). and \I can't do my work today because it is a holiday ... It's Idi Amin's Birthday\. Lastly, and one of my favorites is: \I'll get to my work when Richard Nixon gets re-elected ... (Well ... If he ran against President Carter. . . ) . Tuesday Night: (I think I'll continue the article tomorrow after my hangover) NOW!!! For a limited time only ... (Sorry •.. Times Up!!). You can receive these and many, many more favulobs phrases for you to trea~ure at home on a 2 record album en- titled: \PROCJlASTI \NOTT- S\. And if you1. order now, you will receive as a bonus the best loved songs of Maria Ouspen- skaya ... (NO!!! ... She's not a Freshmen!!) ... Here's how to order: Send·$10.95 and two box tops to: Concordiensis, c•o Leisure Dept., Skidmore College, Room 226. Wednesday: (I can't con- centrate, I think I'll continue after lunch) ·Finally, here are some top- notch suggestions you Cat:! us~ to remind yourself of the Im- minent work that is hanging threateningly over your head. So you dbn't I?Ut off.your Biolo~y hotneowrk, JUSt be a rat m- testine (Labs 1&2) around your waist. The reason for this is -that if you fail to do your homework, you will get that \gut feeling'' inside to remind you. SecQndly, so as not to delay your Psychology homework, tie your book (770 pages) around your neck in a noose-like fashion. This will deter you from \hanging around\ places such as the Pub or Skellar where Procrastination is at a head. Lastly, an excellent remedy for the Procrastination Blues resulting from Primitive Studies is the \Spear in Derriere',.. technique. I'm ex- cluding the method of this gruesome and horrifying procedure but I hope you will get the \point\. If not, I'm sure you'll get it in the \end.\ Thursday: (I'm almost done. . .I'll .finish later) Well. . .There you have it, Procrastination in a nut shell. There is a lesson to be learned from this article and it is a motto I live by. It is: You shouldn't .put off till tomorrow what you can do today ... but hell! i ! •.. I'd rather have a good time now! ! L . .And besides. . . Who does homework anyway??? Friday: (I finally finis)led my article. . .and it only took me five days ... Not bad ... Last time it took me two weeks to write my article). 1101 me fou na1 w{J pel Cf\1 de~ ifnj to, .ref ,.~ ;;Sk~ ftl .art ~-~ tb ;prl: sllt1 dill r ''''''\') ;pt.!j ·111011 ser mtl .. $Ij ,l~l ' ·<I y • J -cor fur for , ter: -we OOt gn .fix we ' Tl I s 0

Page 2 OONOORDIENSIS, October 25_, 1919 ~F---------------------------------------, Editors-in-Chief News Editor Features Editors Layout Editors Soorts Editor Photo Editor . Doug Rosenfeld Sara Simmons Paul Feinsot Donna Creeley Sue Barnhart Rachel Mandel Danny Wojnilower Mark Palomba Assistant Men's Sports Editor Women's Soorts Editor Pat Wright, HtchHope Barb Plotkin. Arts Editors Calendar Photo Staff Layout Staff Copy Editor Classifieds Staff Business Manager Subscriptions Cindy Aranow Ellen Berger, Maria Manfredonia Jeff Winter, Jeff Steinberg Steven Kriskv, Beth Meyer Fran Teitel, Melissa Gold Ellen Van Dyke Roberta Moss Jill Brice, Ellen Rubin, Brian Shea, Ellen Rubin, Gary Glauber, Karen Covey Carole Reinig Scott Witkin, CONCORDIENSIS is published every Thursday by the student body of Union College, Carnegie Hall, Schenectady, New York, 12308; Publications Office: Susquehanna Publications, Inc., 8 1 2 Reynolds Ave., Oneonta, New York 13820, (607) 432-6737. Entered in the Schenectady Post Office as third class matter. Subscription rate: 35 cents per copy, $10 per year, delivered anywhere in the United States. Sick And Tired by GARY GLAUBER Why is it that so much of the art in modern society is ob- sessed with the sick and han- dicapped? Is it a reflection of <mr society's sickness, a modern affection for affliction that invites worry? No longer is there the per- fection of man apparent once in art of ages lost. Now there is a widespread acceptance of the imperfect man, replete with psychological problems and hungry for insights and solutions. Have we moved away from the idea of identification with characters or more towards it? I admit that I'm a bit confused here. When it's taken to the extremes of ter- minal illness, I'm fairly distanced frflm what J read, see and hear. Again I hear myself asking, Why does one have to be ill first to be healthy; why must one taste death to really know life? I Thanks To the Editors: From all reports received, . Homecoming Weekend 1979 was enjoyed by everyone. The in- volvement of many alwnni, students, faculty and staff in planning the events of the weekl nd was essential to its suce( ss. A special thanks goes to he . Student Committee, · headed by Barry Miller '60, and literally hundreds of students, for their participation. To thank each person in- volved would make this letter endless, but on behalf of the ·Alumni Council and the Alumni Office, I offer a huge THANK YOU .to all of you. Harry Demgen Director of Alumni Affairs Blatant ·Borrowing To the Editors: The pressing and pragmatic plagiarism problem h~s once again reared its proverbial ugly head. The hundreds, nay, thousands of recent reports concerning students ''getting away with\ obvious, blatant, and even outright out-and-out not really very subtle borrowing (i.e., copying word for word} have caused me to seriously doubt the integrity of not only my fellow students, but of the faculty and administration as well. Plagiarism is a serious offense to the academic com- munity, bec-ause it threatens the . whole basis of the academic enterprise--the growth and training of the student •s mimi as i~.~llStt~~~t\'~Rr:·~~ctpli.n,~ ~p4 Humor: etters records of other mi:nds. Plagiarism weakens our con· fidence in the solidity and reliability of a scholar's work. It injects fraud and deceit into a relationship built upon trust and respect. Plagiarism is the theft or written material, with the intent of presenting the work of anotfter person as one's own. Sometimes the fresh person who would shrink from using his or her roommate's toothpaste will \borrow\ outrageously from his or her term paper without conscience. Suspicions and accusations of plagiarism are always very unplea~ant, on both sides. The instructor who detects the offense is irritated because the fucident forces on him or her a tole he or she would like to avoid-that of policeperson rather than teacher. Thus, he or she often intentionally fails to notice the serious breach of academic integrity. No self~respecting academic community can af- ford to tolerate this kind of behavior. Why the ad· :ministration has allowed this practice to continue is beyond my comprehension. I demand that the Student Senate or the All College Forum {or whatever it's called} establish a Com- mittee on Really Blatant Copying to draft and implement rules to stop this plagiaristic plague. From now on, I expect you all to resist the temptations and pressures that may lead you to consider plagiarism in any form frr degree. I cry out to the campus community! PLEASE HEAR MY PLEA! From this point on. the responsibility for your nwn behavior is squarely on your shoulders. Winners To the Editors: This Fall's Blood Dri.ve was a success; a total of 212 units were collected and 53 first-time donors participated. The winners of the Keg Contest are. Theta Delta Chi, Delta Gamma, McKean House, and Second Floor South College. I thank the blood donors, Lorraine Marra, and Alice Swanson, for their greatly·needed help. P 1 ease keep in mind the Winter Term Blood Drive scheduled for January 17 and 18. Congratulations keg winners. Thank you, GeoffTolge Student Recruiting Chairman at Union for the American Red Cross Skellar Replies To the E<Jitors: As the manager of the Union College Ra~kellar, I would like to reply to the allegations made in the October 18th article entitled \How To Be A Rat.\ The points of criticism were: 1) Food items on the menu are not always available for sale; 2) The paint and physical ap- pearance of the Rathskellar; 3) The tables and chairs are broken; 4) The rest rooms are. dirty. I assume full responsibility for the inconsistency . in availability of menu items. This Sincerely, has been a problem at the . ·~. , . · ... · .. ·. r·~~~J?.Fr~y,. -~~'::~~l~~ 4 ·.~~!''~U! 1 f>.R~~~;~~:~!-. It seems that everywhere you turn today, you are accosted with tales of the infirm. Movies, television, books. More often than not, the tale is a \How I overcame my handicap\ deal, once again pleading the nor- malcy of the \sick\ and their fine ability to adapt and live in this world. I, for one, have had my fine share of these worn and wounded tale-tellers. Is it just our anxiety over illness that turns society's art over to the recovery ward? True, we live in the \cancer generation,\ but does the germ have to eat away at the quality of our culture? Marxist critics such as Georg Lukacs would cite the \sickness\ as a sign of the modern decadence of capitalism. Cites Lukacs in his article Healthy or Sick Art?, \Not without reason did Thomas Mann characterize modern decadence as sympathy with disease, decay and death.\ Then again, Lukacs and other Marxists would probably deny that any capitalist could live life to the fullest. Capitalism, they claim, deadens the soul with its mystifying forces, providing alternatives (like sickness) to living life. I ask to prove them wrong. Is the American who lives life to the fullest a possibility? I hope so for all of our sakes. My pleas are to the arts as the forum of public example, as the barometer of society itself. My questions seek answers in defense of society, not those anxious to join in its easy decay. Procrastination Plagues Why is it that we need illness or infirmity for our modern-day protagonists to realize that they should be living life to the fullest? The fact that the average man, the \normal\ man does not live life to the fullest unless threatened by handicap or fear of death is the real sickness inherent in this issue. One might argue that the purpose of these \sicknesses\ are only for the prescribed health of the general populace. Perhaps, after viewing one who has \come back to life\ after an illness or handicap, we are all supposed to learn our lesson as if we had been the victims ourselves. But I doubt that. Aside from the absorption quality of mindless en- tertainment that the arts have been reduced to, the premises make for a very poor argument. I wonder if it is possible to have a hero who can lead life to its very fullest, grasping each moment as if newly born, without some turning point of disease or serious confinement to wheelchair or worse. Is such a thing possible, considering the present state of mental health in society? Look around. More and more, we have become a country of crutches. Perhaps this glorification of sickness is only the sad representation of our ~ick society? We are in a time that is ripe for change. People are looking for answers. Daily they turn to Eastern philosophies, to psychologists, to religions, to therapies. Surely someone of the teeming multitudes has found a way to really live life without the benefit of some debilitation or disease. Let us find these pe.ople in our art, in our literature, cinema and television. My sympathies have · been with the uncommon ex- ceptions for too long. \Give me nonnal.'' I propose it as a motto for those who are presently ill and exhausted from the sick and tired in art. by DAVID WOLLIN Monday: (I think I'll start to write my article for Con- cordiensis) What is the one word that is the epitome of every student at Union College. . . (NO!! ! . . .\Partying\ is wrong ... though it is a close second). I'll give you a clue ... If I didn't procede in executing this one word, the article you are now reading would have been in last week's issue of Concordiensis. . .(NO!!!. . . \Get Drunk and Pass Out\ is more than one word ... but it's close ... it also happened). Give Up??? The answer, that you have been waiting for, and that plagues every student at Union College is ... PROCRASTINATION. Tuesday: (Forget it!!. .. I'll write this article later) There is a special and unique jargon that all college students use in trying to relieve them- selves of the onslaught of school work. . . (It's called ·\Excuses\). Some of the more memorable sayings that will live in the Procrastination Hall of Fame (Carnegie, Fifth Floor. .. Well if there was a fifth floor .. .), are: \I'll get my work done when: Schenectady becomes a thriving metropolis\ or \When I get an A+ in Economics. . .(And if you have ever taken Economics ... )\ \When my Bio Rhythms reach a reasonable leve1 \. Other favorites include: \I'll get my work done when we have Co-ed showers ... (or \I'll do anything for Co-ed showers\) and \I can't do my work today because it is a holiday ... It's Idi Amin's Birthday\. Lastly, and one of my favorites is: \I'll get to my work when Richard Nixon gets re-elected ... (Well .. .If he ran against President Carter. . . ) . Tuesday Night: (I think I'll continue the article tomorrow after my hangover) NOW!!! For a limited time only ... (Sorry ... Times Up!!). you can receive these and many, many more favulous phrases for you to treasure at home on a 2 record album en- titled: \PROCRASTI \NOTT- S\. And if you' order now, you will receive as a bonus the best loved songs of Maria Ouspen- skaya ... (NO!!!. .. She's not a Freshmen!!) ... Here's how to order: Send $10.95 and two box tops to: Concordiensis, c-o Leisure Dept., Skidmore College, Room 226. Wednesday: (I can't con- centrate, I think I'll continue after lunch) Finally, here are some top- notch suggestions you can use to remind yourself of the im- minent work that is hanging threateningly over your head. So you don't put off .your Biolo~y homeowrk, just tie a rat In- testine (Labs 1&2) arolUld vour waist. The reason for this is -that if you fail to do your homework, you will get that \gut feeling\ inside to remind you. Secondly, so as not to delay your Psychology homework, tie your book (770 pages) around your neck in a noose-like fashion. This will deter you from \hanging around\ places such as the Pub or Skellar where Procrastination is at a head. Lastly, an excellent remedy for the Procrastination Blues resulting from Primitive Studies is the ''Spear in Derriere\ technique. I'm ex- cluding the method of this gruesome and horrifying procedure but I hope you will get the \point\. If not, I'm sure you'll get it in the \end.\ Thursday: (I'm almost done .. .I'll finish later) Well ... There you have it, Procrastination in a nut shell. There is a lesson to be learned from this article and it is a motto I live by. It is: You shouldn't put off till tomorrow what you can do today. . . but hell! ! ! .. .I'd rather have a good time now!!!. .. And besides .. . Who does homework anyway??? Friday: (I finally finished my article. . .and it only took me five days. . .Not bad. . .Last time it took me two weeks to write my article). ' . ' ' I ' unll me, fou: na€ We per cap des imi to ref1 Th£ Ske weE artl a f ttE pre sho dif£ A pea con ser me; Sffil Pul an£ brb tra• .wal by Skli rer SU{1 sal1 lea wa: opi tha Do1 an< T con fun for ten we1 C()ll gra fix w~ v Tt I s· 0'

'OONOOKlJIENSIS, October 25, 19\19 Page 3 the closing of the library at !J p.m. on Friday. If you are Unhappy with the way . things are going at U11ion, then tbese problems must be · ad- dressed through the prnper · channels. Problems don't solve themselves. The members the Stud-ent ·Forum are a channel that will listen to what J'OU have to say. If 'YUU~dontt , already know the members9 the Student Activities · Office Mn · give you their names and ado. dresses. Lack uf input fr&m the student .·body is a major· coo .. eern. ., Fool ·free to drop me a line. Homosexuality After reading a not so recent article about the movie, \Cruising in the August 20, 1979 issue of \New York\ magazine, I fo Jnd myself strongly motivated to air the discre.et, and probably somewhat misunderstood topic of homosexuality. The media coverage of gays is quite negative. One has seen them. marching in gay protests, lashing out against , Anita Bryant, or cruising in bars, baths, and parks. Are gays being inflicted wi(h the negative feelin.gs that any newly proclaimed minority is forced to fan'> Is this negativism simply the resistance people display toward Change? Do people feer threatened by this movement, in that they realize their own bisexual tendencies? By the same token, one may ask whether men and women feel threatened by the Women's Mo\'ement because they can conceive or themselves living content lives while breaking awa\' from conventional sex roles. My main point in v.Titing this letter is not just to reconsider these quickly debated and pushed aside questions. It is my belief that much of the negative attitude towards homosexuals is due to the fact that people do not understand what ·it is to be a homoselCual. People categorize gays as butches, dikes, S & M and leathermen, flaming ef- feminates, and· closet queens. The straight world is just as full of kinky eccentrics, but does society view them in the same negative way? I hardly think so. It actually rame as a surprise to Editor's Note:. The following corrections should be made in · last week's Student Activities Profile\: Coffeehouse Net · Expeoditures--$2,801. 82, and Frisbee Club Net Budget and Net Expenditures $180.00 and $38Q.Ot, respective!:'•. me when I learned that a large percentage of gays do not fir into these established .categories. They're people, the only difference being that they simply arc not attracted to the opposite sex, or are more at- t r·acted to the same sex than to the opposite sex. . Beir:~g gay is difficult in a world full of prejudice and dist rimination. I hope that the members of the college gay commur.1ity will put forth their efforts to start regular meetings, not for the purpose of dedaring tl1eir sexuality to the entire college conununity, but in order to help each other deal with some very common problems that exist for gays in medern society. I realize that this letter will be received both negatively and positively. Reca use of this, much thought has gone into whether or not this letter should have been printed. I've con- cluded that keeping the topic in the closet, or as a topic merely for jokes, will not help people in their understanding of homosexuality, and of each other. It is my belief that many of us, including myself, can improve our understanding of sexuality in general, and not just of homosexuality. I hope people take the initiative to organiz~ something along these lines also. Maybe I'm being too idealistic in my hopes that people will give one another a chance, and will rid themselves of their preconceptions of others. Anyway, I'm glad I've aired some of my views. I am content knowing that I am in- creasing my understanding and .awareness of my own sexuality as well as the sexuality of others. Name withheld for obvious reasons Benefits Of A BOttle Bi II by JON TITUS Throwaway cans and bottles are aq obvious example of the waste of limited supplies of raw materials and energy. Empty beer cans and broken bottles are a major part of the litter on our streets and in parks. Requiring a deposit-such· as five cents on soda. and beer containers-would be a com- mitment towards conserving valuable resources and ending an eyesore. · A deposit law known as the \bottle bill\ WQuld encourage consumers to return. containers to dealers for re·use · and. recycling., New Yorkers Spider Man Fan Club: Rocky, Louie and BabyFace. All goblins please make ·app9infments for senior pictures on the 31st. . currently consume six billion soda and beer containers each year. A returnable system would slash this figure by two- thirds without affecting soda or The Way We Are I o•or.iT G-E.I uPsEr WHEN TtiE\Y 5TtiCK ME HJ ftr FIVE MI\N SUtrE, 01:: EVEN ~HEN ~ foUNt) 0 uT N''t f(:OONI1\1ATE 'iloESNT -:~tto.._,EK ... · I Heisler, Pachman and Jones :r r>trnvr Eve\' Los£ MY ·coot- wHei)J I Ht11> l'f lESt I r/fi/1:> 7t.IO PAP££5 ON m~ :sAM£ DAY! .. ~~~ Bvr C,l-ltCifEN £/VI/r DIIYS IN II I(Of,U I \ beer sales. The passage of a bottle bill in New York would produce a net gain of 4;000 jobs in New York; savings of 615,000 tons of glass, 60,000 tons of steel, and 10,000 tons of aluminum; and an energy savings equivalent to that needed to heat 125,000 homes for one year. New York consumers would save over 40 million dollars annually since returnables would amount to over 10 million dollars annually. The aesthetic benefits are less bottles and cans on our roads, paths, and underfoot. These figures have been proven with the tremendous success of the bottle bill in Vermont, Maine, Oregon, and also Michigan, an industrial state like New. York. With all of these overriding benefits why doesn't New York have a bottle bill? Attempts to pass bottle bills have been bulldozed by a powerful coalition of brewing, soft drink . and container manufacturers ·who find throwaways more profitable than returnables. However, the momenttlm in both New York ·and nationally is shifting in favor of conservationists. A national bottle bill is really what conservationists want, but it will not be introduced until more states pass a bottle bill; New York is the key. That is why on Tuesday, . October. 30, from 10:30-4:00, the ·\Student Environmental Alliance is sponsoring a bottle bill petition drive in Carnegie Hall. Please join us and sign. ., . Information ftom,:. Sierra Atlantic, Aug. 1, 1978. '(ou NE.\JEli: KNOW 1.\)HI\T':> C,.OI..:l(T TO MAK'C: A i>ft · \;;:i£'D c.eAo::. 0 0 0 .

a d e r ' I j '' I I ! I ·coNCORDIENSIS, October 25, 1979 Page 3 Conl n1en tar:r: --Letters- Homosexuality unaware of or neglecting to tak:e rooms: they are mopped and measures to correct. In the past cleaned daily. Their four weeks we have bad a \disgusting conditionn must nagging refrigeration problem. therefore imply that they are We have b€en forced to store dirtied daily als<>;-Until students perishable items in a·· small find amusements other than capacity sandwich unit which is urinating on the floors, designed to cool items pri&r to breaking light bulbs, or immediate sale. It is not meant throwing full rolls of tisstTe in to serve the purpose ·of a the toilets, there will be a refrigerator'or walk·in cooler. problem. We will continue to The walk-in beer cooler at the ~ clean them daily. .Skellar tyas just repaired the . In summation, I feel the week pnor to the Concordy October 18th article was unfair article. We have also purchased and unwarranted. If the a full size refrigerator in an ·· anonymous authormhad taken t-attempt to alleviate the storage the time to consult me before problem. These corrections publishing his masterpiece, he should totally resolv,e the menu might have been able to inelude difficulties at the Skellar. at least <me or two correct facts for the benefit of his readers. As far as the physical a~ For the most part, I intend to pearance of the Skellar ts continue to run the Skellar as I concernfJd, L have thes~ olr have. I will continue to cater to servations. The .Skellar l:S. not --· the majority of loyal Skellar meant to assume the poltshed1 work~rs and patrons who I feel smooth appr,aranee seen at tile like the Skellar fott wbat it is. l Pub. The ' decor\ of maroon feel the Skellar does have a an~ w~ite paint . over .. fQUgb · pla.ce and s.mves a purpose on . bttcks. ts one that bas betm a , tfiis campus~ If \The Doctor\ is tradi~ion. at Union fo~ dooad~~· I not of th€! majority to which I .was .. mfurmed of tl}i$. .Jt:adit,tQil ref&r 1 . m:ay'be' fur should make by. p. at .. .r.on~ .and wqrl!;ers !lt the his ho~ta calls ·at other eam~us Skf!llar who.· s~ffed at JnY estabbshments. - rem<u:l.e1illg . . ideas an9 suggestwns with essentially the same r.eply1 ••tt's tne Sk~nar-, leave. it the way:i~ is: this i~ t~e · way .we like it.' ... I £~ei th~lt' cpinton is of mnre Vftlue tban .smeerely, John A. Smith Rathskellar·Manager the closing of the library at 5 p.m. on Friday. If you are unhappy with the way some things are going at Union, then these problems must be ad- dressed through the proper channels. Problems don't solve themselves. The members Qf the Student Forum are a channel that will listen to what you have to say. If you don't already know the members, the Student Activities Office can give you their names and ad~ dresses. l..ack of input from the student body is a major con~ cern. Feel free to drop me a line. Sincerely, Vern Wetmore Junior Rep. Box 1009 or 38~~9f:i82 Parents' Weekend? It may seem a little early to think about ·events in April$ especially wben the snow hasn't even begun to fall, but. an early . start usually results in the best that of tJne individu!lJ, \Tbe I f Dod:or,\ wlli.l prefer$ to remain n ·p U anooy()us. . .pr{lgram. That's why l am looking for energetic well· ., ~>rganb:ed students who want to serve on the ad hoc Parent's Weekend Committee. This is a The only defense l have To the Students of Union College great opportunity to ,get .in~ concerning the ,condition of the and espeelall'tl the Class of '81· 1· d · j 'd f ,...,.,tur .. '*\is that a wot 1 k .order · · ·, · ~ · vo ve marna or campus-Wl e After reading a not so recent article about the movie, \Cruising in the Awgust 20, 1979 issue of \New York\ magazine, I fo wd myself strongly motivated to air the discreet, and probably somewhat misunderstood topic of homosexualit v. The media coverage of g·ays is quite negative. One has seen them marching in gay protests, lashing out against Anita Bryant, or cruising in bars, baths, and parks. Are gays being inflicted with the negative feelings that any newly proclaimed minority is forced to face: Is this negativism simply the resistance people display toward change? Do people feei threatened by this movement, in that they realize their own bisexual tendencies: By the same token, one may ask whether men and women feel threatened by the Women's :vlovement because they can conceive of themselves living content lives while breaking awav from conventional sex roles . My main point in \\Titing this letter is not just to reconsider these quickly debated and pushed aside questions. It is my belief that mwch of the negative attitude towards homosexuals is due to the fact that people de not understand what it is tube a homosexual. People categorize gays as hutches, dikes, S & M and leathermen, flaming ef- feminates, and closet queens. The straight world is just as full of kinky eccentrics, but does societv view them in the same negative way\ I hardly think so. It actually came as a surprise to ..... ~.. \' event. Please stop in the ff}f repait· was placed on Sep.- · By now most of us are settled Student Affairs Office in Car- Editor's Note: The following temb.er 3rd. Measurements into our roles as· students again, nl;)gie _for an application. corrections should be made in were taken. and hopefull3l the and it's not uncommon fur us to GeUnvolvecU You might have last week's Student Activities contractor will·,find time to discover same ptobleJnS that ajreat time! Prgfile\: Coffeehouse Net grace. us With his presence ·and develop. :Srnne nngbt lle· .as Expe'nditures··$2,801.82, and fix the booths within ·the nen : small as your displeasure with Mike Andolina Frisbee Club Net Budget and week. · the high prices of beer in the AssistantDeanofStudents . Net Expenditures $180.00 and ~w.· .• i~.· .. r•eaga•r•d····t•o .. ~h•e• .. •r•e•st ... fSk···e·n·ar .. ~ •.• as._ag •. ·igara •. ~.a.tm._g•aas .... _.»._ ................ iiL-~_s_o._o4_._r_es~p_e_ct_i,_·e~l~_··------~ me when r learned that a large percentage of gays do not fir into these established categories. They're people, the only difference being that they simply are not attracted to the opposite sex, or are more at- tracted to the same sex than to the opposite sex. Being gay is difficult in a world full of prejudice and disuimination. I hope that the members of the college gay community will put forth their efforts to start regular meetings, not for the purpose of declaring their sexuality to the entire college community, but in order to help t>ach other deal with some very common problems that exist for gays in modern society. I realize that this letter will be received both negatively and positively. Because of this, much thought has gone into whether or not this letter should have been printed. I've con· eluded that keeping the topic in the closet, or as a topic merely for jokes, will not help people in their understanding of homosexuality, and of e.ach other. It is my belief that many of us, including myself, can improve our understanding of sexuality in general, and not just of homosexuality. I hope people take the initiative to organize something along these lines also. Maybe I'm being too idealistic in my hopes that people will give one another a chance, and will rid themselves of their preconceptions of others. Anyway, I'm glad I've aired some of my views. I am content knowing that I am in- creasing my understanding and awareness of my own sexuality as well as the sexuality of others. Name withheld for obvious reasons Benefits Of A Bottle Bi II by JON TITUS Spider Man Fan Club: Rocky, Louie and BabyFace. All goblins please make apppiRtments for senior pictures on the 31st. Throwaway cans and bottles are an obvious example of the waste of limited supplies of raw materials and energy. Empty beer cans and broken bottles are a major part of the litter on our streets and in parks. Requiring a deposit-such as five cents on soda and beer containers-would be a com- mitment towards conserving valuable resources and ending an f'yesore. A deposit law known as the \bottle bill\ would encourage consumers to return containers to dealers for re-use and recycling. New Yorkers currently consume six billion soda and beer containers each year. A returnable system would slash this figure by two- thirds without affecting soda or The Way We Are I DIDNT 6-E.I Ui'\SE.T WHEN TH£'( STUCK ME \N 1\ fiVE M liN SUarE, 0~ EVEN WHE.N 1 f'OL\N~ OUT N\Y f.:OOM?'li\Tf IloESNT' ~ttoi.JEi2 .. I Heisler, Pachman and Jones Bur c~tcK£1\1 I [)I DNr ElleN LO'S£ IYJY coo'- wHe/11 I H-'J}) /I TEST .1Nl> TvO PAP£e5 ON nl~ 5AM[ ElbHT £>11'/5 t.V A ,(()(A)! \ beer sales. The passage of a bottle bill in New York would produce a net gain of 4,000 jobs in New York; savings of 615,000 tons of glass, 60,000 tons of steel, and lO,t:hlO tons of alwninum; and an energy savings equivalent to that needed to heat 125,000 homes for one year. New York consumers would save over 40 million dollars annually since returnables would amount to over 10 million dollars annually. The aesthetic benefits are less bottles and cans on our roads, paths, and underfoot. These figures have been proven with the tremendous success of the bottle bill in Vermont, Maine, Oregon, and also Michigan, an industrial state like New York. With all of these overriding benefits why doesn't New York have a bottle bill? Attempts to pass bottle bills have been bulldozed by a powerful coalition of brewing, soft drink and container manufacturers who find throwaways more profitable than returnables. However, the momentum in both New York and nationally is shifting in favor of conservationists. A national bottle bill is really what conservationists want, but it will not be introduced until more states pass a bottle bill; New York is the key. That is why on Tuesday, October 30, from 10:30-4:00, the Student Envi'ronmental Alliance is sponsoring a bottle bill petition drive in Carnegie Hall. Please join us and sign. Information from: Sierra Atlantic, Aug. 1, 1978. \' OU 1\lE:JEt: KN0L~·­ v..JHAT ~ lTOtiJ(r- 1 C' - MA K i A i' i': t 1>1£ ll C.li:I\C. K 0 0 \

Page 4 OONOORDli!{NSIS~ October 25~ 19'19 C.E. Chairman, Frank G·riggs. Griggs J_oin_s C.E. Dept. - by ELLEN VAN DYKE The Civil Engineering department has a new professor this year who has also been named Chairman of the Department. He is Dr. Frank Griggs, formerly the Chairman. of the C. E. Dept. at-Merrimack College in Massachusetts. He holds four degrees; a BCE, an MS, and MCE, and a DE, all from RPI. Dr. Griggs has many plans for Union's C.E. department. Among these, priorities a·re plans in the curriculwn, and to have a greater emphas~s on writing and speaking in C.E. < cla;,;ses. In regard to the latter point, he would_ like to see classroom situations where ~rades w~uld depend more on the students' ability to write in homework assignments and also 011 their ability to hold discussions in class and-or give oral reports. Dr. Griggs would also like to see more in-class discussions of the ethical and . professional problems students may be fac.ed with after graduation. Another idea he has is to provide a broader range of electives within the C.E .. department, so that stud~nts would have niore leeway in choosing courses outside of requirements. He has also expressed a desire to have a hydraulics lab. ;Something he would like to see done soon, is a general clean-up of Butterfield Hall so that people walking into• it would have a better im- pression of the fadlity. This would include washing win~ dows, painting halls, fixing lights, and generally adding a little \pizzazz\ t<> the building. Dr. Griggs expressed a desire to create an environment in the C.E. department that would give incentive for the staff to be' active professionally in both research areas and consulting activities. He feels that this would be of value tothe students as well because ,professors who are actively involved in their field often have more to add to their classroom work. He would like the C.E. department to be a place where the staff can grow professionally. CampusFellowship Formed 'bigger design component in the curriculum. Right now most of the courses are heav.ily based on analysis Le. the students are given a structure and asked to analyze it in terms of stress, etc. and he would like to see more designing of structures by the students to meet certain requirements. To do this, ad- ditional courses could be added or the idea could be wurked into existing courses. Some ,of the long teril1 tdeas Griggs has are: to offer a geology degre-e that is separate from a C.E. degree while still keeping the geology department under the C.E. department reinstituting the commitment to the evening program (offering more Bachelors courses and ultimately offering Masters courses); offering more graduate studies dur.ing the daytime; and doing work with community services institutes. Although students who practice a Protestant religion are in the minority here on campus, they have united to form an organization called the · Campus Protestant Fellowship (CPF). In speakmg .with some students about the program, Concordiensis received com- ments such as, \It's about time we were noticed\; \The service is really very nice. It is ap- propriate for the type .group we have and I really feel very comfortable in it\; \Not only is the service really great, but I Jike the offers to get away from all the work and tension here, even if it is jQst for a single day project. They can be lots of fun and I'm really looking ferward to the bigger travel plans being made.\ A group of members from the · CPF who are interested in planning both the service projects and the larger trips meets weekly on Wednesdays at 12:30 in the Pub. They invite anyone with suggestions, ideas, or interest to join them. Also, the group of worshipers invite anyone who wishes to, attend their services at 7:30 Sunday evenings in Lower Hale House. As far as facilities are con- cerned, Dr. Griggs would like to see some improvements made. He wants to have P:otter Laboratory made usable and used for structural testing; at the present time it is used simply for storage. He would also like to see the existing labs added to or improved so that n10re lab work can be in- corporated into the curriculum ... Work on the labs would include improving the soil mechanics lab and the strength of · materials lab, and adding to the structural modeling lab and the As new Chairman of the C.E: department, Dr. Griggs has many plans to improve both the facilities and the curriculum of the department to the ad- vantage of both students and faculty. This organization is~not new Union College, as it was in existence many years ago and is just now being reorganized. It consists of students who practice the Methodist, Baptist, Presbyterian, Episcopalian, Lutheran, United Church of Christ, Reformed, or other, Protestant sects. Part of the \Organization is concerned with providing worship services and coun- selling. In this vein, they have established a service each Sunday evening at 7: 30 in Hale House Lower. Lounge. The various sects each have input into the service to make it quite unique from any one specific sect's. The area- ministers also take turns in leading the service and students provide a good deal of the input into each service's planning and actual presentation. Also, there are religious counsellors present on campus during weekday af· ternoons. Presently they may be found in Richmond but are scheduled to be at Fox in the near future. Anyone interested in any facet of the service or in the organization as a whole is urged to visit. Also, anyon~W.ith or without need for counselling Alumni Return For ·weekend · may find it nice to just stop and talk with the ministers who represent many different area churches.· . ,·, .. Another part of the organization coQcentrates on the social atmosphere. They are thinking taf ;!)()ssibly taking a group . fq_r ·a~ w~kend trip or retreat . in the . near future. Already organized is a work- service day on Saturday, November 3. This day will ~­ elude a trip to nearby Schoharie where the students can pick the area's abundance of apples to be donated to the Schenectady Inter-Cfty Misson, ¥our students who have experience in working with hammers, na}ls and a skill-saw can help. to bwld a solar collector from 10 a.m. imtil 4 p.m. Also among the , days activities is schedUled . a possible trip to a cider press m the area. Anyone interested in participating in this work- service day of fun-filled ac- tivities shoUld contact Donna at 370-6528, or Ed Horstman. There is room for a large group and preference be given t_o. active club members only if absolutelv necessary. What reason could Alumni , possibly have for returning on Homecoming Weekend? Many Alumni made the pilgrimage back to Union this year. Most of them were graduates of recent classes, but there were representatives · from·. as far back as the Class of 1926. fraternities hosted members of past classes and their families. \We (Union Alumni) came back because we keep an active interest. in the college,\ ex- plained one alwnnus. He went WRUC \It's hot news,\ joked President Morris. He was referring to the reception that WRUC held last Tuesday night to welcome the president, his wife, and other campus notables to,the new facilities at- WRUC, Present at the reception were President and Mrs. Morris, · Dean of Students Robert H. Kellett, Assistant Dean of Students Mike Andolina, Business Mana.ger Bill Herrin, Coordinator of Student Activities Lorraine Marra, Professor of Chemistry John Sowa, and Student Life Committee representatives Dave Stern and Regan Krutick .. Everyone was given a tour of the studion and invited to chat with the members of the WRUC executive board. It was the wish of WRUC to introduce prominent members of the campus community to the workirigs of their radio station. It worked. Mrs. Morris claimed that she and the president \were im· pressed with the wo* done at the station.'' Both she and her husband even took a WRUC T- shirt home with them. WRUC hopes to keep in closer touch with the administration and the campus at large. They view this reception as a step in the right direction. on to boast, \Union has a 53 percent alumni participation while Harvard only has less than 30 percent. This shows you how highly Union grad.uates think of the college. Ana we want to keep it that way.\ Another alumnus explained, \Life in college was the last freedom we had. College life is isolated from the outside world. It's a life full of parties and fun. Yes, there were all-nighters too. But, after a few years you look back on them fondly also. We've come back to recapture thpse years.\ . Indeed, the atmosphere was full of tales of Skidmore ex- cursions and days gone by. Stories · of classes and ·professors now gone, cheered some. Others were reunited with old fraternity brothers. \I came back to see my old friends and professors- to see what's new with them.\ \i wanted to see how the college, the people in it, have changed.\ There was a curiosity about how academics had changed. One older alumnus asked this reporter \How do you like ' ?\ having women professors. Another asked, \Do you make.it to Skidmore much?\ .. Most alumni approved of the changes at school in recent years. On the recent ~mph~sis on Science and Engmeermg, one said, \That's due to our ' Karla Bonoff performed for a capacity crowd in Memorial Chapel for Unioh's Homecoming Concert. She received two standing ovations. increasingly technological society. T,Jnion is still dedicated to a broad liberal arts education. That's what Liberal Learning is all about. If the students weren't concerned with a broad based education, they wouldn't be here.\ Another said, \As long as they keep the Liberal Arts departments up, I don't care. But, if they don't, they'll lose a lot of alumni support.'' Probably the most generally used remark heard this weekend was, \I like Union. I like the people.\ And this is why the pilgrims came back to campus on Homecoming Weekend. Amendments. I I ' Continued from- page 1 Professors Gajjar and Goodheart of E.E. 14. Professors Jorge Valdes of · Modern Languages' and Linda Patrick of Philosophy:, request an amendment to permit the possibili~y of junior facu!ty members to~ become involved in the review of faculty· for renewal of contract, promotion, and tenurability. 15. An amendment- to create an Appeals Committee on decisions made by the Faculty Review Board; this motion was made by Erik Hansen, Charles Tidmarch, and Ann Seeman. ·16. The Student F()rum voted unanimously, with two ab- stentions, to add a third student to the ·Planning and Priorities Group. 17. The Student Forum voted 8-3 to\ add a third student to the Liason Committe~ for Athletics, 18. The Drafting Committee on Governance voted unanimously to provide a mechanism by which the revised government system may be amended in the future. The faculty will meet on Tuesday to vote on these amendments; the · Student Forum Will vote on Monday. · - SaJ Lav excct fields conve 10-12 entitlE Safet3 An produ 'COVer organ the r· failur4 Lee repre: profe~ s, -~ manu suran< off ere of Gr tinuin by profe en gin• mer, en gin Comp Attc OtisL andD on su' tiff's Vulne Prodt \Curr for tht of Gc Contir Le..c gover: \Wha sume1 missi< on ,pJ Rolei: Healt1 ment: Affec Repre includ comn Office Satet:~ - CUL~ No' self-t for multi exhit UniOJ Nov. DIN!' Oct Chap Man~ spon::: thwa: Nortl Centr Nortt furth4 3883 c HOM No~ tady · annot annu~ Comr. take Anno: break ·cong East• tady. . call 3 L~C1 Oct Educ; Univc spans Bern~ ASS IS and fering Groce

a d s OONOORDIENSIS, October :135, 1979 Page 5 ......_.-Around Campus---~6- Safety Talks Lawyers, engineers, and executives from numerous fields and occupations, will converge on Onion College Dec. 10-12 for a three--day seminar entitled, \A Guide to Product Safety and Liability.\ An all-inclusive analysis of product safety, the seminar will cover product liability law, organizing for product safety, the role of government, and failure analysis. Lecturers will include representatives of the legal profession, top consulting firm- s, government agencies, manufacturing and the in- surance industry. The seminar, offered by the College's Office of Graduate Studies and Con- tinuing Education, is directed by Raymond Eisenstadt, professor of mechanical engineering and Willie Ham- mer, professional safety engineer, Hughes Aircraft Company, Los Angeles. Attorneys Edward German, Otis L. Lee, Jr., Howard Lester and Dale M. Thuillez will speak on such topics as \The Plain- tiff's Claims,\ \How Vulnerable Are You: Trials in Product Liability Cases,\ \Current Legislation,\ \Help for the Defense,\ and the \Role of Government, 1990; Will it Continue to Expand.\ Le..ctures on the role of governmental agencies include ''What to Expect from Con- sumer Product Safety Com- mission,\ \OSHA and its Effect on .Product Safety,\ \NIOSH ~ole in Occupational Safety and Health,\ and \Role of Govern- ment: a Roll Call of Agencies Affecting Product' Safety.\ Representatives of Government include Sid Ascher, director of community service, State Office of Consumer Product Safety; Alfred Barden, regional administrator, Occupational - Safety and Health Administration; Mary Louise Brown, regional consultant, state Office of Safety, and Health; and Paul Gatons, director of Urban Studies, Federal Office of Education. The perspective of the in· surance industry will be presented by Dennis Connelly of the American · Insurance Association; Kenneth C. Hall, . manager of insurance at General Electric Company; and S. David Hoffman, vice president of Standards and Legal Underwriters Lab. Engineers Willie Hammer .of Hughes Aircraft and K.F. Packer of Packer Engineering Association, will cover, \Realizing a Reasonable .Level of Product Safety: Case Studies from Large Manufacturers,\ \Organizing for Product Safety,\ and \Designing Liability Free P['oducts.'' Manufacturers will be represented by Charles F. Williams vice president .of Mattei Inc., speaking on \Product Recall,\ and·\ \Realizing A Reasonable Level of Safety,\ and Gerald Oleksiw, manager of J. C. Penny's Testing Center, speaking on \The Relationship of the Testing Laboratory to Retailing Products.'' . Tuition of $395 includes materials and text by Willie Hammer entitled, Product Safety Management Engineering. Although ac- commodations are not included, registrants will be furnished with a list of area lodging. For more information contact the Union College Office of Graduate Studies and Con- tinuing Education, Wells House, 1 UnionAve., ~chenectady, New· York 12308. Telephone (518) 37o- '6288. . White House Aide Speaks Dr. Peter G. Bourne, fonner White House aide to President Carter, wiU speak on \The Management and Politics of the Worldwide Search for Water'' at 4 p.m., Nov. 1 at Union College. Dr. Bourne, the coordinator of the United Nations' Inter- - national Drinking Water Supply and Sanitation Decade, will speak in room 207 of Bailey Hall. The speech is part of the colloquium series on Administrative and Engineering Systems sponsored by the. College's Institute of Adminis+;ration and Management. An informal discussion with Dr. Bourne will be conducted from 2 to 4 p.m., prior to his speech, in the Wells House Conference Roon .. Afri~a \Inc. During the past 21 years, OPERATION CROSSROADS AFRICA, INC.~ a non-profit organization focusing on in· ternational development and educational exchange, has sent more than. 5000 volunteers (students, professionals, and others) to 34 English-speaking and French-spea~g African countries to spend the suminer helping rural village com- munities. Projects involve: Art, Oral History, and Archaeology; Ethnomusicology; Agricultural development; Community development; Tutoring; · Clinical Medical Work; Health Education, Media Develop- ment; and Construction of Clinics, schools, and com- munity facilities. This extraordinary ex- perience provides a brief but ·intense immersion in \ traditional and modern Africali life and pushes individuals to re- consider t,asic attitudes, standards, and beliefs in relation to people with . con- trasting values and beliefs, Most volunteers arrange to receive academic credit for their summer experience, and many find that they are helped into professional careers in International relations, Higher Education, and Business. Persons interested in. par- ticipating in CROSSROADS' SUMMER WORK-TRAVEL- STUDY PROGRAM must apply immediately. Contact: CROSSROADS AFRICA, INC., 1'50-5th Ave., NY, NY 10011 (Phone: 212-242-8550); or the local CROSSROADS Contact person: Mitzi .J. Glenn, AOP Director; fPhone: 370-6115). Brownlee At Rochester Dr. Paula P. Brownlee, dean of faculty at Union, will address the college's Rochester Alumni Club at 6:30 p.m .. , Nov. 8 at a dinner-reception at the University Club of Rochester, Broadway. Brownlee, who studied at the University of Rochester from 1959-61 on a post-doctoral fellowship, will speak on ''A Look Toward the Future-- Educating the Class of '84.\ the constitution, the IFC discussed several other issues of importance. First, the bid- ding dates for fraternities were announced. Houses may extend bids to freshmen no earlier than Monday, Nov. 5. The bid boxes, where freshmen indicate the house they wi&h to pledge, will be placed in Carnegie Hall on Nov. 11, 12, and 13.. The proposed second bid date is January 14, 1980, and the bid box will again be available on January 14, 15, and 16. In an effort to clarify the pledge meal plan, Director of .Food Services, Angelo Maz~ zone, is reviewing the costs incurred by the individual fraternity kitchens. Also, Mazzone would lik~ to cooperate with one or more houses in providing meals for athletes during Winter break. Among the many homecoming activities this past weekend were the awarding of the Bro'Wil Cup to Fiji and the re-chartering of Kappa Sigma at Union. The IFC congratulates Fiji and Kappa Sigma and will consider the latter's bid.for IFC membership at the next meeting on Tuesday, Oct. 30, on the Phi Beta Kappa room at 7:30 p.m. Party Dates: In the future we will try to 'announce all major Greek parties in this column. On Oct. 27, Beta will stage another Schnapps & Beer party. Also, Delta Upsilon will hold its annual Halloween Party on Tuesday, Oct. 30. Exxon Chief Lectures A native of England and a graduate of Oxford University's Somerville College, Brownlee earned her Ph.D. in organic chemistry in 1959 at Oxford's Dyson Perrins Laboratory. She joined American Cyanamid Company\as a research chemist in 1961 before re-entering David Jones, retired academic life in 1970\ on the treasurer and vice president of faculty of Rutgers University. Finance of Exxon Corporation She was named assistant will speak on the \Social and professor of chemistry at Financial Aspect of American Rutgers in 1971, associate dean Capitalism,\ at 4 p.m. October of Douglass College in 1972, and 25 at Union . acting dean of Douglass in 1975. Jones will concentrate on the Dr. Brownlee was named dean international aspects and of faculty of Union College in behavior of American com- .. r_ -AREA CALE-NDAR--~\' CULTURE November 4--Andy Smith,. a self-taught photographer known for his slide shows and multimedia presentations, will exhibit his works at the R.P.I. Union Shelnutt Gallery from Nov. 4-Nov. 22. DINNER October 30-The Upstate N.Y. Chapter of Project Management Institute will sponsor a dinner at the Nor- thway Inn starting at 6 p.m. The Northway Inn is located at Central Avenue (Route 5) at Northway Exit No. 3. For further information call, 385- 3883 or 385-5322. HOME November 3-4--The second \Capital Distric·Holistic Health Conference\ will be held in Albany.. The two day con- ference, sponsored by the Capital District Chapter of the Huxley Institute for Biosocial Research and Ability Aids Inc., is entitled, \Help Yourself to Health.\ It will be held at SUNY at Albany. For further in- formation, call 518-271-7928. MUSIC December of 1975. She was panies abroad. A native of USE: Scott Aralick, \The chosen from among 250 can- Chicago and a graduate of Roving Swede,\ will take place· dictates. Harvard Business School, he att the Junior CFollegfe of Albany. The recipient of several joined Standard Oil of New a 1 p.m. or urther in- h f 11 h' h Jersey-now Exxon-m· 1947 as a f ti 11 27 n 2344 7 n researc e ows 1ps, s e has.. orma on ca v- or 2 vo- published a nwnber of articles senior analyst in the 2246 · in technical journals. Treasurer's Office specializing November 2-The Symphonic For more informaUon, in Middle East and Far Eastern Concert Band will appear at contact Jim Richards, 925 affairs. He was later- respon- SUNY Albany's Performing Crossroads Building, 2 State St., sible for the international Arts Center on Nov· 2. The R h t tanker transport of oil, and m· ·u k 1 oc es er, area code 716-546- . cotnPcertg wHl tlla eFp acfe atth7 P·~· 5510. 1953 became chief financial a a e a . or ur er m- officer of Esso-France. formation call 457-8606. In 1957 he moved to corporate Nov. 2-4-·Betsy Rose and. IFC News headquarters in New York, Cathy Winter will appear at taking the Tll\sition of assistant October 28--The \Green Caffe Lena, 45 Phila Street, treasurer ~~d later chief of Fields of America\ touring Saratoga Springs from Nov. 2-4. The Inter-Fraternity Council t 1 . ensemble of Irish music and These two ladies have gained a ( IFC) met on Oct. 16 and, in an corpora e pdanntmg. In 1965 hde d ame w· ill make its ·s\\con.d 'd · h encouraging expression of was name reasurer an . .., Wl e reputation t roughout the served seven years as vice appearance in the Albany area country for their presentation of solidarity' voted unanimously president of fm' ance before ht's 0 t 28th Th f · f • • t f in favor of the new constitution. on c • . . e per ormance mustc rom a woman s pom o retirement in 1977. is scheduled. for 7:00 p.m. in view. For further information It was evident at the meeting A veteran of World War II, Page Hall at SUNY Albany. For call 584-9789. that the council has the Jones served with the 34th further information eall 439- Nov. 3--VIDEO ART and potentialtobemoreunifiedand Infantry Division in North 7374. . ELECTRONIC MUSIC with. efficient in the forthcoming November 4-The Schenec- October 30-The Department Jenny Morris and Laurie year than it has been in tAhfriLocl,l dandSithalyl. HfeE attended tady Lodge of B'nai Brith have of Music, . the university at Spiegel will take place at SUNY • previous' years. Also, Dean of ed n ond c 1 ° 0 0 .hcon 1 omics announced the recipients of its Albany, will present a concert Albany's. Performing Arts Students Robert Kellett has ~~lum~~au~rv:rsit;~ 00 at annual Youth Services Award. by the University community Center Recital Hall at 8:30p.m. ! offered to work closely with the Jones will speak in room 207 Commeration ceremony will orchestra with Nathan · Gott· For further information call · Council, which will help to of Bailey Hall. The presentation take place at the Lo_dge's schalk, conductor, on Oct. 30th 457-4901. maintain an important channel is part of the Colloqw·um sert'es Annual Youth S · A d · th M · Th t f th of communication with the . ;ervtces war m e am ea re o e PARTY administration. sponsored by the college's breakfast which will be held'' at Performing Arts Center at 8:30 Institute of Administration and Congregation Beth Israel, p.m._. For . further information Oct. 2 a-:Music Mobile, Inc., is After discussing and passing ~anagement. Eastern Parkway, Schenec- call 457-8606. tady. For further information, October 31--TI:le Ficton sponsoring a city-wide · !. ••••~•••••• ... •••••,.•••••••••••••••••••••••••••! 11 Halloween Party to be held at ... \\ . ca 393-0073. . Brothers a great duo featuring th B t H . w h. gt it u . c ll s· . I c . . ir Bluegrass and country m. u .. ic, e oa ouse m as m on \\ · lllOll 0 ege acta ommtttee presents ! \' Park from 2: 30-dusk. For it .,.. L~CTURE will appear at Caffe Lena, 45 further information call 472- ~ : Phila Street, Saratoga .Springs. 6 147. ! NIGHT CL VBf ! October 28--The State For further information call ~ ; Education Bepartment at the 584-9789. · THEATRE it 0 1979 8 30 1 +: University at -Albany will Novemberl-TheDepartment it Nov. 1 ' . . : p .. m. in A umni Gym: sponsor a lecture presented by of Music,. the University at Nov. 4-·Angel Levine, t · : Bernard Malamud on,, THE Albany, will present a recital by starring Zero Mostel and Harry ~ Featuring Hypnotist john Kol isch : ASSISTANT, a novel of Jewish flutist Irvin Gilman on Nov.1 at Belafonte, will be shown in the * Dance to the music of 11 Friends\ +: and Italian redemptive suf- 8 p.m. in Page Hall on the Auditoriwn of the New York . • Tickets: $4 (incl. 1 drink) : fering in a Lower East Side Downtown Campus. For further State Museum at 1:30 p.m. For · ~ Available in Student Act'rv·r·t·•es t l2.~.ocery store. For further information call 457-8205. further information call 457.. ,. ,. ~~o.r_m_a_t.io_n_,_c_a_n_4_5_7·.300 __ 7_. _______ N._ov_e_m_· .• be_r.__1_-_c_o_F_F_E __ E_H_~ __ .. s_oo_7_. ________________ _.~J ;•••••••••••••••••••••••••••••••~~~•••••••••••!

Page 6 OQ_NOORDIEN/.318, October BS, 1979 culture Pirandello Speaks Out T'brough a contact, Con- cordiensis has been fortunate enough to get an interview with the dangerous Lqigi Pirandello. The content of that interview appears as follows\: · C: Mr. Pirande1lo, in the past two weeks our school newspaper has offered a reward for your capture, accusing you of torment of .spirit, inhumane treatment and shunting of pal.\'ental duties. What have vou to say' if anything in your own defense? P: Si, pero' forse voi ... C : In English, if you can. . . ?:Surely. Excuse me. I want to say that I am very much upset at the attitudes you people are taking. I know what I know. C : Are you, as accused, an accessory to murder? P : Tell your people that they must ask themselves what to believe. The man I was accused of .•. ~don't know .. sJaying, this man 1s not real. He is nothing ~ore. th_an a piece of my unagmation. I created him - have I not the <fight to destroy him? C : Is this some sort of qualitative judgement, Mr. Pirandello? What, exactly, are you saying? You have killed a dead man? P: Judgement? What do you know of judgements? Have you ever questioned your own life? You, too, wiU die. This man was never real, but he was alive. Yes, alive for the in,stance, but not a man who will change with each passing moment. C: Are you telling me that change denotes real life? P: I am not telling you · anything. I am merely putting the facts as they stand before you. I can see ·you have misunderstood my distinction. You ask me about truth. Well, this man, this bearded man, he was more true than either you or I. More true than all of your U Ilion College. Yet his mask is fixed, he has no choice of words or actions. He is their slave. I am his creator, therefore, he is my slave. C: Are you involved with .slavery? P~ (yelling) Io Parlare! C: In English, Mr. Pirandello, in English, please. P: I speak of forms and ideas! You. . . you do not think! C: Forms and ideas? But isn't that just structural semantics? P: Let me finish! Ideas can be passions and passions ideas. I am a passionate man. Passion is the crux of my work. The act I have ccmunitted was an act of passion. C: Bllt Mr. Pirandello, was a m1ll'der committed or not? P: Look in my face. Do you· see these lines of age? Do you see my balding head? Dear sir, I mean no harm in what I do. I worlt hard to expose the misunderstandings that arise of the human nature. In doing so, I transcend the lines of reality into inusion. God, have pity on mel I am a writer and· I wish your people would leave me be. C: I'm sorry to have upset you but I am merely trying to straighten out this confusion.- Tlle campus was in an uproar. People are scared. P: Buffones! These people, they are afraid of themselves! They are the very reason thave done what I've done. I seek to awaken them from their living slumber. I yearn to breathe life into them. Phooey! There is a difference between the stage and their lives! Now,: all of a sudden, tbey are concerned for themselves-! . C: Mr. Pirandello, you've yet . to ~swer the charges brought against you. P: I refuse to answer these insults! I will run away if I must, old ·as I am. You have simplified everything to fit your safe little college lives. I do not live in your world, you do not live in mine, and the bearded man, .he doesn't live in either! You look puzzled. Well, fine,. I have nothing more to say. Ask yourself the questions you pretend to ask me .. No mart will be guilty if the right questions are asked. Ask away, but leave this old man to a peace I deserve! These forms. are trapped in their search for me, this is beyond change. The truth, well you·cannot see their truth, you cannot see my truth. I am only guilty of the guilts of an author. C: And what are those guilts, Mr. Pirandello? P: I have been kind enough to grant you an interview but now I find you are pressing me beyond my limits. Please leave and take my words back to your school. I hope some will see my . side of the matter. Luigi Dizzy P·e·rform·s Priscilla Herdman On Wednesday, October 17 Jazz Museum Dizzy Gillespie's performed at Proctor's Theater in \I Can't Get Started.\ On a huge black chasm called a . stage; in a theater packed . w1th empty seats; before an audience largely inexperienced with the required active par· ticipation required in this art form called Jazz; on a set where the lighting technicians provided the bare minimum in stage lights and harendous spot work; with a back u,p band that was barely adequate and far from tight, Dizzy Gillespie was scintilating. Dizzy Gillespie is an artist, a musician, a showman and a genius. On his trumpet with the be_ll molded upward, (Dizzy's trademark) he hit a wide range of notes with such clarity that its . beauty was pure ecstacy. Astde from his inimitable trumpet, .Dizzy played superbly on the <;ongas. Don't Miss PrisCilla Ready to enjoy a relaxing evening of live music, coffee, tea and donuts again?. This Fri. · Oct. 26 at 8:30 p.m. in the Old Chapel, Coffeehouse proudly presents a performing and recording artist of notable talent - PRISCILLA HERD- MAN. Priscilla has performed at numerous folk festivals, Reflections clubs, coffeehouses, univer- sities ~nd colleges not only in the Umted States but in Canada and Europe as well. In additibn she has appeared on nationai and local television and radio throughout North America. Her album \Water Lilies'' received raving reviews from many J?Ublications. In fact, the Boston Be like the pool of water That returns my gaze With reflections of its own And remain As always A giver of life And a reservoir Of beauty --Anonymous Please sub.mit you~ poems to Vicky Eddy and Neil Skolmk, F meltnes Editors, Box 560. Globe referred to it as \a breath-taking experience\ and the Montreal Gazette picked it as one of the two best folk albums of 1977. Pt·iscilla sings about people and their emotions, railroad bums and gamblers, love, the great depre.ssion, war and the joys of life. Priscilla's reper- toire includes traditional folk songs, folk songs of the '60's, and ballads as well as her own works (one of which was recorded by Bonnie ·Raitt and songs of other writers such as Lenard Cohen and Utah Phillips. She is a special kind of performer who can make a song · come alive as a sharced ex- perience between a singer and listener. Of her concerts, our own Knickerbocker News in Albany said, 'Priscilla Herdman. . . .... captured the attention of tbe near capacity crowd of 900 with her haunting and shilling folk ballads . . . which left the audience hushed~and brought many people to their feet.\ Altpough the list of outstanding compliments could go on and on, they @i'e nicely ~wnmed up by the following review from the Broadsheet (Edinburgh, Scottland), \Her voice is tmique in that you feel. you have heard it somewhere before but haven't. . . Her perception of audience mood is one of the most precise oi have ever wit- nessed .• ;This was $beef quality at its best .. ~Go and see her, you won't be disappointed.\ Don;t miss her Fri. night in Old Chapel (admission $l- includes all· the coffee,· tea, lemonade and donuts you can drink-eat). Playing . along with Dizzy were Ed Cherry on guitar, Mike Howell on bass and Tony Cam·pbell on drums. Both Cherry and Howell were adequate musicians, each with ability, yet illey were not ex- ceptional. However, Campbell on his first night of playing with Dizzy and the band, was truely fine. During a so]o Campbell showed his true ability as an excellent musician. Unfortunately, there were an incredible number of problems detracting from the concert. Proctor's is a magnificent theater. with a huge stage. A four man band placed ip the front and center looks lost without a light colored back- drop. The lighting presented additional problems. At Proctor's the two standard warm and. cool colored lights were far from adequate. Additionally, there were two spotlights although one would not realize it. One spot w,as used almost exclusively and in .. correctly. The spot was usually on Dizzy. When he was · not playing, it was illwninated the guitarist whether or. not he had the solo. At one point this was so obvious that when the spot was corrected, the audience ap- plauded. The concert was poorly at- tended. In a town as old as Schenectady, with two colleges ~nd a ~ide range of age groups . mcludmg those who grew up in the age when Dizzy's \bebop\ was at its peak it is striking that the theater was at best one third full. The audience · was somewhat Ia.cking in sophistication; although not necessarily in their enjoyment and appr-eciation of Dizzy's music but in their actual par- ticipation that is synonomous with jazz. In part, less audience participation comes when the crowd is so-small. However. in spite of the above complaints, in our Union College grading system, I would give it a B+. Dizzy Gillespie's charm and wit flow~ through the audience and he had everyone laughing and enjoying themselves. His personality came through his music. Diz· zy's music is beyond compare. He hits high-notes and blue• notes with perfect. clarity~ It almost seems impossibhr that the trumpet is capable of playing with such diversity. The music is so beautiful it seemed to be erogenous. And Dizzy never let up. He played such classics as \Night in Tunisia,\ \Barcelona \St. Louis Blues,\ \Oling~ 11 I Can't Gt;!t Started\; h~ ended With a piece t~at Jimmy Carter sang with hun at the White House, ''Salt Peanuts.\ Although I>izzy did not come out for an encore, and he did not have a larger more e:Jperienced band, one could not feel completely cheated, fQr Dizzy gave his all and· we loved every minute. ' ] pl w CE bl 81 rn y T1 hE w. wl at di to vi as WI Tl b€ St or th so to ch M. ba flc ke in· int tht su \f Ty \l\ Ba br1 I re• all we re: sh~ kn sid th• ch• cru an ba1 ca1 we en1 ve1 Pr ste pli mCI ne1 an( she cos fri1 she WOI det l YA int~ an) Me one bre pro PUll still and his Wit WOl

OONOORDIENSIS~ October iM, 1979 Page 7 Culture RoCk Club Report by STEVE MONOSSON something like a phenomenal show; but last Saturday at J.B. J.P. Scott's in Albany, was Scotts, this was not the case. privileged this past couple of Hell's ~old offstage per- weeks to showcase one ex\ sonality blossomed into an eery, cellent band, one very good discomforting stance ·once he band, and one very disengaging J.:>egafi to.perform. As compared and musically unimpressive to Mr. Hell, the rest . of the musical entourage. First qff, Voidoids were a pleasant relief YACHTS took the stage on to watch. ·Guitarists Bob Quine Tuesday, the 17th, and did one and Ivan Julian both displayed hell of a job. The band's effort interesting m;;mnerisms which was even moce eommendable added to the presentation. Their when one considers the pitful solid, if unextravagant work audience turnout. Those that carried the band through did gamble the $2.50 and came Voidoid standards like \Love to witness the group were ob- Comes In Spurts,'' John viously satisfied with the show; Fogerty's \Walk on the Water,\ as the area in front of the stage and the anthem ''Blank was filled with bouncing bodies. Generation.\ The new single, The YACHTS sound uses the \The Kid With The Replaceable best elements of the Cars, the Head,\ opened the set; and it Stranglers, and other keyboard proved to be one of the few eye-. oriented acts to come up with lifting moments of the show. their own distinctive, tasty Crowd reaction was puzzling. art6 sound .. The band worked well Mast people looked as if they together, as Bobby Bellis' had no idea what w~-s ,hap- cheery hearted drumming and pening. ThoS'e ·who stood and Martin Demfisey's thumping attempted to get themselves bass line fused the delightufl into the music wound up flourishes of Henry Priestman's · swaying aimlessly. One could keyboard and Martin Watson's .-:;.not get enthused about the in-no-need-of-description guitar show. Richard Hell might be' of into one cohesive tuneful unit. some value on record, but his Free To Be Epiphany The sound was on a par with stage act . is of questionable the YACHTS album, sometimes merit. Word has it that R.H. & surpassing it. YACHTS T.V.O.'s ate close to legendary \favorites\ like \Yatchting down in New York, which is Type\ Suffice To Say,\ what prompted this writer to \Mantovani's Hits,\ and \Look s.ee the show. Sadly, the show Back In Love\ all sounded didn't live up to the advance. bright and smooth. At this point Supporting The Voidoids were I would like to remind the the Neighborhoods, a Boston reader that there is a YACHTS based .band who proved to be album on the market, and it more likeable than the would be well worth the headliner. The Neighborhoods reader's while if he or she have a raw, punkish sound; but should .purchase the record. I unlike Mr. Hell and company, know that's a lot to ask· con- the songs were easily sidering the exorbitant prices distinguishable from one the record companies are another ;,~nd generally high .,.. charging these days; so if you quality. 'Guitarist and lead can't afford it, call up WRUC singer David Minekin's antics and request a Yachttune. This were carried out with great band deserves all the support it verve and skill. The Neigh- can get, as all the members borhoods are the sometime were more than willing to backing band of ex-Boom Boom engage in a little honest· con- Band leader Willie \Loco\ versation. When I asked Henry· Alexander. With the Neigh- Priestman about the borhoods' charge an~ stereotypical, not .so com- A 1 ex and e r 's r e·p u ted plimentary attitude which showmanship, the· resulting many people have concerning presentation must be something new wave or power pop rock to see. and rollers, he replied \Why So that's it for now. Be sure shouldn't I speak to you? It and catch The B-52's at J.B. 's costs nothing to be civil.\ That this Saturday. It promises to be friendly spirit pervaded the ~ \beachy keen\ show. show, as the band worked wonders with the audience - not detached from it. Night Club: by GARY GLAUBER Once upon a time and a very good time it was there was a moohorse coming down along the road and this moohorse that was coming ~own along the road stopped and asked me to sfgn his Equine Rights Amendment Petition. Tralalala Let the Grecian dream of his sacred stream, And sing ·Of the brave ador- ning. o. . ' · - Soine~ne got excited, had to call the state militia · Wanna moo, hey little travellin' band. Yeah. Uncle Charles and Dante clapped. The P-rofessorial Ball was a success. Suddenly Dante burst into flames.\ Infernal damnation!\ yells he. \What a divine comedy,\ yells Uncle Charles. 10 July: Certainly I remember the past. Besides, I've saved all of the Concordies. Years now. 0 life! Dark stream of swirling bogwater of..which I will send back to the waiter. I must remember never to eat here again. Scudding cloudy Unlike the good natured YACHTS, Richard Hell pulled into town not wanting to have anything to do with anybody. Meeting him was like sticking one's nose in a loaf of moldy bread. Mr. Hell is one of th~ · progenitors of t-he New. York punk rock scene, as ;he played stints with the Heartbreakers and Television before forming his present group, The Voidoids. With all this experience, one would expec~ him to put on Hypnotizing Show Nightclub sponsored by the Union College Social Coiill1i.ittee will feature renowned hypnotist John Kolisch on November 17. Among J<Jhn · Kolisch's amazing feats, he gives fascinating demonstrations of man's power of E.S.P. He en- tertains with his unique f~ats of Thursday October 25 thought projection and mental telepathy. Mr. Kolisch describes hyp- notism as an induced state of physical and mental relaxation, characterized by greater susceptibility to power of suggestion. Mr. Kolisch con- verts this power of suggestion into an astounding audience participation program. His program features demon· strE)tions of hypnosis, mass- hypnosis, and post hypnotic suggestion. He also lectures on how to have better control over your mind and body. John Kolisch was bDrn in Vienna, and has had twenty-five years experience as a lectureer and hypnotist. He has appeared. Shows at 9 & 11 . before distinguished audiences · · all over the world. Mr. Kolisch has also appeared on . such popular television shows. as The Tonight Show,. The. Steve Allen Show, and To Tell The Truth. Tickets on sale 8 p.m. in Carnegie Don't miss this chance to witness some truly ex- traordinary events. Tickets are available in Student Activities. water. 11 July: What is art? A vague emotion. It is not desire or loathing. Radiance, Wholeness, Harmony. Maybe Aristotle was right. Maybe I am stupid. 12 July: What is beauty? Pulera sunt quae visa placent, says Aquinas, the patron saint of fingerpaint. \That which pleases, also says thank you.\ Beautiful manners for a saint. Into the ·gardens they traversed and poised. They had reached the banal bridge and, turning. from their course, walked straight into the sluggish waters. A smell of wet branches warred against Stephen's thought. He had walked into another tree. \There is a rhythm of beauty,\ said Stephen aesthetically' ''and I've got it!\ , \What is that exactly?\ asked Lynch. \I've got rhythm, I've got music, I've got my girl. Who could ask for anything more?\ \There's art,\ said Lynch. \But what is art?\ asked Stephen. \Art all art, is nothing more, Then when pigs fart across the floor.\ \Who said that?\ \Aristotle said Lynch fervently. \But is art beauty and is beauty art. And what about Naomi?\ \Naomi is a woman. The Greeks say that women are screwed up!' \Oh C'mon Lynch. Our end is the acquisition of knowledge.\ Donovan placed his hand on his chest and said, \Let's get laid.\ Stephen made an obscene gestt.lre of denial. \No really,\ pleaded Donovan. \Goethe and Lessing have written a lot on that subject. The classical School, the romantic school, etc. Of course it is all idealistic, Ger- man, ultra profound.\ None of the others spoke. Donovan took leave of them, saying,\ Have it your way. I must go make burgers for the world.\ \Strange chap,\ Stephen said in his wake. Then he got out of his wake and walked over to the turnip patch where Lynch was standing. ''So what about this beauty biz?\ asked .. an inquisitive Lynch. \Look at that basket,\ said Stephen, pointing in the air. \I think its beautiful. I'm in love with that basket.\ Lynch looked and saw nothing. \You're a real basket-case, Dedalus. You've spent too many hours avoiding mortal sin. You need a rest.\ Stephen pointed on. That basket would make some Wife. I wonder if it can cook.\ Stephen paused, and though his companion did not speak, he felt that his words had called up a thought-enchanted silence. The artist, like Amelia Earheart or Judge Crater, remains hiding behind or beyond bis h~ndiwork, in- visible, indifferent, biting his fingernails. Our house is a very ,very, very fine house. With two cats in·the yard, life used to be so hard .. -. . · He had not even remembered rightly Nash;s line. All the images it had awakened were false. Life could be easy with Continued on page 11 uuuc IDOL UNION COLLEGE LITERARY MAGAZINE is now accepting submissions of poetry, $hortstories, original artwork.· AU are needed. Writers ahd Artists: Expose your work in IDOL Submissions may be given to Mrs. Marra; Student Activities Deadline: November 25,1979 ntte•naoeonomonnonns

Page 8 OONOORDIENSIS, October 25, 19\19 . . . classifi.eDs BULLET ·I-N BOARD Science wlll hold a meeting for Seniors for the purpose of electing its student depart- Piease contact Yungwha Min mental representatives. The in Placement for more in- : meeting will be held on Wed- formation about the American · nesday, October 31, 1979, Federation of State, .. County & · Conference Room, 3rd floor of Municipal Employees, AFL~ • the Campus Center at 5:15. Do CIO Legislative Internship. come and exerciSe your right to Harrison Radiator Division · . V()te and perhaps to hold office. would like to talk to Mechanical · 'Engineers, Chemical Engineers : Scholarship available for and I.E.'s for Plant and . students of Nassau County Production Engineering and ; entering law school- in Sep- Reliability. Please stop by • tember 1.980 .. For information . Placement and sign up. They · and appbcatlon see Professor will be recruiting on campus on ; William J. Daniels, 216A Social Fri .da. N · be 2 1979 : Sciences Building. Deadline is · y, ovem r , · . · ) :May 15, 1980. For students interested in the i study of law, a meeting with . April '1:8-19 _Hartwick College faculty advisors will be held · • will sponsor the First Annual Wednesday, October 31, 1979 in . Intercollegiate Symposium. the Conference Room, Campus This year's topic will be Center (3rd floor Carnegie), at Energy, Environment and 4:30. Come and ask the ! Society. Undergraduates from questions that are on your mind. · all disciplines are invited to submit their research and The Department of Political • writing, and to serve as panel · participants and diScussants, Cash priZes totaling $300 wiU be awarded to best papers or projects\as judged by a com- mittee of students and faculty. Deadline March 1, 1980. Contact: Intercollegiate Symposium, c-o Professor Bob Gann or Professor Alan Zox, · Hartwick College, Oneonta, New York 13820. Or call607-432,.. 4200 ext. 428 or 401. Correction: The October 26 scheduled appearance of black actress Howardine Pindell at · Union College, as announced in the Bulletin Board section of · Concordy on October 18, has been cancelled. Figure Skating and Basic Skatmg Instruction for faculty, staff and students. Monday, • 11:45-12:45. Instructor: Becky Kerslmer. Male Roommates wanted for nicest suite on campus winter term only. Call 6478. .. Riders Needed for trip to Northern N.J. this weekend. Leaving Friday aft~rnoon; returning Sunday night. Call Dave Siegel at 372--5593. PERSONALS Hey Val baby-we've got to do something about this ~ slump! Later Larry M.-to the best looking R .. this year! With love, Fourth floor Richmond Maria-I'm so glad we un- derstand each other. lAve ya lots.-Grape Dr. 0-Happy birthday,,better late than never.-CB Renee-Congrats. 1 down, 33 more to go.-Claire HERE'S ONE ENGINEERI:NG OPPORTUNITY YOU WON'T GET IN PRIVATE INDUSTRY. If you're thinking about a technical position after graduation, think about this. How many companies can offer you a nuclear submarine to operate? The answer is none. Equipment like this is available only in one place- the Navy. TheN avy operates over half the nuclear reactors in America. So our training is the broadest and most comprehensive. We start by giving you a year of advanced technical education. In graduate school, this would cost you thousands, but in the Navy, we pay you. Once you're a commissioned Nuclear Propulsion Officer, you'll earn a top salary. Over $24,000 a year after four years. And you'll be responsible for some of the most advanced equipment developed by man. TheN avy also has other opportunities in surface ships NAVY OFFICER. and aviation assignments. If you are majoring it1 epgineering, math or the physical sciences, contact your placement office to fi,nd out when a Navy representativ~will be on campus. Or send your res1:1rne to: Navy Officer Programs, Code 312-B918, 4015 Wilson Blvd., Arlington, VA 22203. TheN avy. When it comes to nuclear training, no one can give you a better start. IT'S NOT JUST A JOB, IT'S AN ADVENTURE. I.S-Good luck in Rochester this weekend!-DS - ERI.-8AVE THE WHALES!- -A concerned sociologist DCS- I'm sorry I've been so . bad. I'll try to be better. YLG .JM--Here's to your first personal Great job singing! G . PT--great cookies, great friend! Boston-lAve that heart! n. tick-A sundae? What's. the scoop?! To all off-campus seniors- Any information ·abaut apart~ ments available for next year, esp in the area of Park Ave., Wendell or university please call 370-6894 Laura K.--good luck on Sat!lr~ay! · Need a Roommate spring term? I'm returning from a termabroadand need a place to sublet. Call Sally at 377-2694 Little Rosie--Smile, people will wonder what you're up to. FITC To Second Floor Davidson ·North-Keep on Flamin' but not with RATS! . Wrong way wills-Get it fight! Lisa, We're sorry we missed you last week. Your're always- welcome at rrn. '258. John and Brian Phi Sig-That was a great party you had on Fri. Good wine and cheese! LW, NF and SR , Sigma Chi-When ARE you · going to sing? BD- Thank you for the roses. Love ~lways, LP Tax-How does the world look when you're riding on the hood of a car? A blond haired security guard Steve--Have you checked Irwin l-ately? Rennee--Congrats on your engagement-~Second floor Richmond Bober-\Are you happy?\- Howie Doug- 11 ls it Silverstein or Silverman?\-H.E.S. Cis or trans? No. No, you just · don't understand.-H.E.S. . . . AND THE REAG· TION++Hoffman, I can't see you at 9:30. Make another appointm~nt.-is slower than .. . -H.E;.S. Obviously you didn't un- derstand the chemistry of that joke or you wouldn't be laughing.-H.~.s. Fox 311 is hereby declared unfit for hwnan habitation. Especially Jerry Garcia + Harry H. Plato's room.-Cohoes board. of health. Dear J.C.-8TUDY! Love, B. Happy Birthday to the President of the United Federation Of Slobs! A.M.+ A.B.+ J.C; + D.S.- CALL COHOES IM- MEDIATELY!!! Your mothers are stranded and need a ride out Will, Have any more words of wisdom? I F Co ha A.r wt Th ad Pl; sul to mi str Fo - wh adc Ph: an< 1 me am nar pre ver Fin GO' am gre am rna and equ to . nan Bt For1 ofth surv m:in whe1 reop or ~ closi even num hour shou Th meet earn 29th, StUdE - PER Ha that L.l most anyt1 AI~ Luck LMV Pa1 manr Ver bake Sar wouk Vej revok Rut

OONOORDIENSIS, October 25, 19\/!r ·Page 9 Forum. class.ifieos· • • Continued from page 10 The Forum will probably hand tough on unfriendly ~mendments 16 and 17, both of which the Forwn submitted. These amendments' deal with adding one student to the Planning and Priorities Con- suit~tion Group and one student to the Athletic Lias<in. Com- mitfee. An agreement may be struck between the Student Forum and the F acuity . whereby the Faculty would also add one of its members to the Planning ·and Priorities Group and the Athletic Committee. The final unfriendly amend- ment concerned a .procedure for amending the . College Gover- nan~e System in the future, a procedure which was inad- vertently_ omit: ed hom the Final Unamended D1aft ·of the Governance Report. This·. amendment is viewed with great importance. As .the amendment is written, both a majority of the General F ~culty and the Student Forum (or its equivalent) would he necessary to amend the College Gover- nance System. . Briefly, in other business, the Forum decided on the wording of the library hours survey. -The survey will 'be used by the ad- ministration in determining whether the library shoyld be reopened on Friday evenings, or whether the new policy of closing the library on Friday evenings in lieu of an equal number of additional weekend hours at the end of the term should be continued. The next Student Forum meeting will be held in room 401 Carnegie on Monday,,...October 29th, at 7:30p.m. All interested students are invited to attend. ' ' PERSONALS Happy Birthday, Jeffl (love that hairl) L.P.B .. B--What would you most like to do, if you could do anything? Alan, Brak and John-Good Luck on the LSAT-Rim and LMV Pat-Teach your breast some manners. Verna-What are you going to bake for me? Sara--Marry· Pat? L What would Bill say? Vejetable--The V. C. C. C. revoked my memb~rship.-The Rut fast f·ree ... Vejetable--Once for us, once forT., once for S., newt time for R.-The Rut Margaret- You're Beautiful- Greg Margaret- You're Beautiful- Ray Roseann-We love you too- Ray and Greg ' Talk about being whipped-! hear you're on the phone 24 hours a day . . . and she's ''eng9ged.\-..C.R. 219 Fox--We're really S()rry about Monday .night. It won't happen again. Love, C. and S. , Maureen-2 weeks in a row. Wowl Lets celebrate with a Vodka Collins and a Rum and Coke:-An Admirer. Ed B.--Your high school knowltdge is no longer getting you through anymore is it? We . love it.- Your Sultemates Barbo-I want you bad . Now ·. that I hf.lve your attention, just wanted to say, Miss havin you around. You kno'!V I'm just a. · quiet and shy typist . . . P1aise Wilbur, the foos god How to be a Miller rep. by · Irving Leinenkugal Avoid overwithholding on your taxes, declare bankruptcy . it's easy,. be American Save The Whales Tom, I'in sorry we have to . lock you out EXHIBITIO·N. AND 4 5ALE Qriginal Oriental Art Monday, Oct. 29 ' Carne~ie HaH 10 a.m.-5 p.m. I I ' I presents: PRISCILLA, HERDMAN 8:~0 prn 0\d Chape\ -------~--------------------~ .Free Pizza! :One I I :FREE I I I ' I I I I I ' I I I I small cheese pizza with purchase of any large 16 '' pizza. de 1 .1 v~·e ·ry : ()). e. coupon per pizza · . t Q.omino's. Pizza • · · . I Expires 10-28-79 • I I I I I I I 3 7 2 - 4 4 41 I ~:.~:,~~~~~ce : · . I ~ I I -----------------~-~---~-~--· / .GENERAL INFORMATION MEETING: OCTOBER 29, 4 P.M. ~ STRAU?.~_!.QUNGE, CARNEGIE HAll PEACE CORPS • VlST A t·'EET A FORfvlEH RECEIVE FREE VOLUNTEER f'lATERIALS %PRICE .,;·· \\ I V-NECK SWEATERS by. REVERE~ These lambswool blend sweaters are soft, warm. and machine washable. Choose from a variety of fall shades, Sizes S to XL Compare at $}6. $8 PLAID SPORT SHIRTS A prestigious brand of fashion-right shirts in sizes S to XL. Our collection even includes some comfortable flannels. They are $20 to $25 elsewhere. $10 WOOL-BLEND DRESS SLACKS These slacks. from famous makers. hav~ the desired styling that is too good to be missed. Values from $28 to $37.50. $14 .. ALBANY,Century II Mall, Central Plaza, 900 Central Ave., STORE HOURS:l0-9 Mon·Sat., 12-5 Sun., COLONIE, Wolf Road Shoppers Par.k (in the satne shopping cehter as Service Merchandise), STORE HOURS:l0-9:30 Mon-Sat., 12-5 Sun., ROTTERDAM,Rotterdam Mall (ne~t to Tempo F;;~shion), STORE HOURS:l0-9 Mon-Sat., 12-5 Sun. ALSO IN KINGSTON and BENNINGTON, VT. . .

.. Page 10 Forum. • • Continued from page 1 Council. That particular Student Forum amendment reflects the plans that the Forum has for reorganizing Student Government. Note: \Student Government\ (i.e., the Student Forum) is a separate entity from \College Government.\ The two entities have separate and distinct . responsibilities, although some members of the Student Government presently, and will continue to, serve as members on the various committees and councils of . the College Governance S;rstem. SPORTS MAD,NESS Another ·unfriendly amend- ment, submitted by two engineering faculty members, seeks to stipulate equal divisional representation among the four appointed student members of the Academic Affairs Council. The Forum may address this par- ticular amendment since it would affect the Student Forum Committee on Committees appointment policy. it has. been noted that very few engineering majors have applied and subsequently been appointed to the Educational Policy Com- mittee during the past few years. The Forum's amendment specifying the membership of the Sub-Council on the Academic Standing of Students as three students, three faculty members, and three ad- ministrators was deemed EXCE:PTIONS . Sony - Qnly one discount wfll oppfy. Dlecount It tOicl[ln oH original aetlln'g ,nee. fire ·erma and ammunition not lncfu4etl. Sorry·no.fayawaya. · Part ae! Halloween Night October31 6 p.m. to 10 p.m. SPECIA:L DISCOUNJS on SPORTING GOODS, . CLOTHING & EQU:IPMENT APPLY IF YOU. COME TO OUR p;A RTY IN ••• * Dressed as a mountaineer .......................................... 16 o/o oFF * Riding ahorse with a pumpkin on your head .............. 28% oFF . t.. With hair in ,pigtails and front, teeth blocked out ........... 6% oFF '!l ·wearing :long johns only ........................................... 14o/o oFF * ·wearing a scuba wet suit ........ ~ ................................. 22.% oFF * Lady-in short shorts and halter ................... : ............. 14% oFF . tr Man in-short shorts and halter ................... : .............. 20% oFF u Clown·outfit with painted face ... : .............................. 17% oFF 1:: With 'leg in cast ,u;~: ..... n .................. ulttH ....... IIt ... H., ..... 16o/o. oFT fl. With hair iit·curlers ............ .e•u .......... ,..hnuu .................. 4% Off 'tt Playing .a- fiddle .............. u ......................... , ........... ,. ... 15% oFF rr With •o% of body painted orange anfrlding .a goaL. 45% oFF * With green hair lno wig) ..... · ......... ~ .. : ........... ; .............. 1.8o/o oFF · tr Dressed in bathing suit only • ., ........... ; ........................... 18% oFF . \ . * Dressed in bathing suit and ski boots only ............ 22% oFF 1r Dressed in full skroutfit including · boots, goggles and h.at· .......................................... 25 o/o oFF * Wearing a tophat and bikini with makeup ............... ~. 24% OFF *Man dressed as ladY.· .......... 8 .......................................... 1-&o/o oFF · iiln Tux or go.wn~ with ski boots and goggles ...... · .......... 24% oFF \k Dressed in paiamas .............. ~ ....... ~.u ........... u~··· ........ 16o/o oFF 'il Tattooed lady (only real t~ttooes) ............................ ~ .. 29% oFF 11 Dressed as a baby in-diapers with lollypQp, on roll~r ~kates ................. ~ .................... 25% oFF · \unfriendly\ because there are presently three students, four faculty members, and three administrators on All-College Senate Standing of Students Committee. The Forum may well amend its own amendment before the Faculty meeting, bY proposing that the membership of the new sub-council be consistent with the outgoing committee. In such a case, it is very likely that the Faculty would agree to the Forum lUilendment. If You're Into Sports G--et Into OPENING SOON IN Both Professor Nichols and the Forum recognized that the ninth ameh<tment, an amen.d- ment proposed by the Forum which would allow the Formn to ask for an official recon- sideration of academic affairs policy recommendations, needed some minor wording adjustments. There was some discussion as· to what those working adjustments would be. 273 .. 7253 ~~.'!t LATHAM % mi. So. of Circle · Rt. 9 Unfriendly Amendments 11-15 deal with the Faculty Review Board. In particular, Amend- ments 11 and 12 shoUld be \hot\ issues among the facUlty. The Student Forum will probably refrain from discussing these amendments and accept the decision of the Faculty. Continued on page, 9 74 FOURTH ST., TRQY OPEN MON.-FRI. til9 p.m. The Concordiensis Stnff would like to ongratulate Mindy Rosenfeld F einsot Reinig on the .birth of her kittens - (at last count there were 3/4 Oct. 23, 1979 EXPAND YOUR HORIZONS AT DATA SYSTEMS SERVICES •. Your career should expand your universe. Providing state-of-the-art data processing services nationwide !or General Dynamics Corporation will do just that, involving you in fields as diverse as nuclear submarines, telecommunications and aerospace vehicles. And, right now, we're looking for self-motivated individualsw~h degrees in engineering, computer sci.ence, mathematics o~ tlie physical sciences. _ Equal Opportunity Employer M/F, HC GENERAL DYNAMICS Data Sy.stems Services will be interviewing on campus on October 30 Please contact the Placement office for the exact time and place. Data Systems Services Eastetn[jata Systems Center Norwich, CT06360 1tJ~ • ~ •• -.:~·. ~ J-'····· ot.l\ •· ~·····-·~ .... ~ in former Russell Dist. Co. We've created an indu~try. And that industry created great , careers. Check with your college placement office fot details- and schedules. Then talk to our campus representative. ·XEROX® Xerox is an affirmative action employer (malelf~male) 464 State St. we deliver Schenectady 374-1888 Tl swe CoU We1 nu r ball pan boo. stuf all t Tl atl 8-15; thre mat ceec two Tl cont Hav littlE II ~ Wh defea junio rem a trium same game the fi White Nalba game as Un Marti on to their • The John slate outscc The withot Agar,. Nalba leads lOpou 111 Unic sports two basket Sigma Three: in the The 'i tramm after o major record1 sure t Delta champ Ep Contin two ca depenc 15 Ju MetRe Cliff's sweate Asked been a the sh1 points crazy c 16 J diary,

OONOORDIENSIS, October le5, 1979 \ Page 11 6porte V-Ball Looks To States The Women's Volleyball team swept a quad-match at Siena College this past Homecoming Weekend. Raoted on by numerous Homecom.ing balloons, volleyball alumni, parents wearing Union College booster shirts, and twelve stuffed animals, the team beat all three opposing sqtlads. The Plattsburgh match began at l p.m. and resulted in a 15-8, 8-15, 15-4 victory. After waiting three long hours f0r the next match to begin, Union suc- ceeded in downing Clarkson· in two games, 15-11, 15-4: The next team · Union was contested against was Siena. Having the home advantage did little to boost Siena's ~pirits as .,. they watched {Jnion leave their gymnasiwn boasting a 15-10, 15- 7 victory. Coach Barta was proud of the teamwork that the volleyball team displayed,. noting especially .their fine spiking and setting skqls. Natalie Stone, alias 'the Belgian Bomber' and 'B2', is a great asset to the team because of her consistency in hitting down the line. Another contributing factor to the team's successful record of 13·2 is the \Union setters Union.\ The \Union\ includes both Brenda Hugick and Sue Marr, who demand limousine service and private dressing rooms whenever they travel. Monday night's match against Russel Sage proved to JY Soccer Unbeaten 0 While the varsity soccer team defeated Trinity on Saturday, a junior varsity soccer team remained unbeaten wifh a triumph over Trinity by the same score, 1-0. The J.V. game's only tally came early in the first half as Jim 'Whizzer' White scored on a feed 'from Ed Nalbandein. The rest of. the game was a defensive struggle as Union, led by fullbacks Jeff Martin and Frank Shorina, held on to give Union the win and their first shutout. The J.V. squad, coached by John McNamara, upped their slate to 5-0-1 and have now outscored their opponents 18-6. The Union victory. came without co-captain forward Tim Agar, who was out w.ith the flu. Nalbandein, Agar's linemate, leads the team in scoring with 10 points (4 goals, 2 assists). He is followed by Paul McGrath, with 6 points (2 gQals, 2 assists); Mike Lewis, 6 points (3 goals); and White, with 5 points (2 goals, 1 assist). The starting eleven consist of Nalbandein, . Agar, White, and Bill Berman on the forward line; co-captain Bob · Fox ·and'·· Ed Faber at halfback; Shorina, Martin, Frank Merest\'and McGrath on defense; and goalie Andie Shapiro. Key reserves include Bob Quish, Billy Osgood, Bill Reisner, Mike Nassar, Bill Haupt, and Mike Stein. The J.V. soccer squad faces its ultimate test when they·take on unbeaten Hartwick on Thursday afternoon at 3:30p.m. on Daley Field. Hartwick defeated Union last year and has lost only one game in the last three years. Come out on Thursday and give the J.V.'s your support. lntramurals Union College Intramural sports are well under way. After two weeks of three-man basketball play, it appears that Sigma Chi, the Cougars, and Three Star are the teams to beat in their ·respective divisions. The Women's Volleyball in• tramural teams are brewing after only one week of play. A major upset has already been recorded, and future games are sure to be watched closely. Delta Gamma, last year's champ and the pre~season pick for this season, was caught by surprise when a Richmond squad defeated them in three games. Get your jogging shorts and running shoes out of the closet! Get psyched to jQin fellow UColl students in a cr.oss-country run. This test of endurance will take place on Friday, Oct. 26t at 4 p.m. in front of Alwnni Gym. Register at the intramural office. Support your intramural teams! Epiphany ••• Continued from page · 7 two cats in the yard. It was all dependent upon attitude. 15 July: Back at school again. Met Rocco at the Skellar, under Cliff's nose. He was in a black sweater and had a hurleystick. Asked me if it was true I had been away and why. Told him the shortest way between two points was not to follow these crazy campus walkways. 16 July: Why I keep this diary, I'll never· know. Philosophy was never suited for undergrads. My father works in the garment center. Maybe I too will become a man of the cloth. Old friends, old artificers, stand me now and ever in good stead. At least until the next check arrives from home. Gary Glauber (with respects to J.J.) be another landmark game, followiNg in tqe footsteps of the Williams match last week. The UColl women squeezed ahead in the first game, 16-14. Sage defeated Union in the second game by a score of 12-15 and appeared to be winning the third match when Union, down 14-11, pulled ahead to a 16-14 win, thus beating Sage for the -.first time. The psyche used to get the team up for the Russel Sage game was to kidnap the team scorekeeper, Fuzzy Elliot, from Ellis HospitaL With Ms. Elliott cheering the team on, they were assured of a successful match. The following match was played against Siena. Though the UColl women beat Siena in only two games, 15-9 and 15-10, they had great difficulty cap- turing the final point in the second match. 0. ... ... J E ;;:; ,. .c 0 0 if The volleyball team will try to up its winning record of 13-2 tomorrow night when they play against New Paltz in an away game. Junior Shei·la O'Donnell at the net. Block-U: Hockey Plays Benefit The Union Ice Hockey team will face off against' Colgate on NQ~.3. at 8 p.m. in Achilles Rink to benefit the Block U Society and the Achilles Figure Skating Club. Tickets will be two dollars and all seats are general ad- mission. The main reason for the reduced rate over last year's price is to decrease the financial burden on the students. GO The Block U Society is not a budgeted club or society, and therefore, half of the money returned from the hockey proceeds will go directly towards the Athletic Awards Banquet, Varsity letters, Union blankets for three-year Varsity players and watches for four- year Varsity players. The other half of the proceeds will support the Achilles Figure Skating Club which is a member club of the United States Figure Skating Association. The Schenectady area club is the kind of organization through which the future Dorothy Hamills and Peggy Flemings get their starts. Skaters from .. ~,_ ~· - . . . ~ .·. _ .. · . . '· .... :, ~:.;.:;:,~}-'..! .... --~~~~~~·:.-:::\~;...~-. f:~ - ....... . If you're thinking about a technical position after graduation,. think about this. How many companies can offer you a nl.iclear submarine to operate? The answer is none. Equipment like this is available only in the Navy. The Navy operates over half the nuclear reactors in America. So our training is the most comprehensive. As a commissioned Nuclear Propulsion Officer who has suc- cessfully completed a year of nuclear training, you'll receive a $3,000 bonus. Plus a top salary and responsibility for advanced ~chnical equipment. If you're majoring in engineering, math or the physical sci- ences, find out about the Nuclear Navy. Contact: NAVY OFFICER INFORMATION TEAM On Campus Nov. 14-15i 1979 14 Nov 79 15 Nov 79 Carnegie Hall 8:00-4:00 Placement Office 8:00-4:30 NAVY OFFICER.n\S NOr JUST A JOB, II'S AN ADVENIURI. novice t9 expert as well as people who simply skate for pl~asure ·participate inthe club. Tickets for the benefit will go on sale Oct. 20 in Achilles Rink. The hours for the ticket sales are as follows: Weekends from 8 a.m. to 12:00 noon and 6 p.m. to 10 p.m.; Monday through Friday from 10 a.m. to 6 p.m. Additional hours are Tuesday and Thursday evenings from 6 p.m. to 11 p.m. The Union Ice Hockey team wants your support. DON'T ------ --------- let 4 yeal's of college go by the boards. John Sexton's ' ~SAT. GMAT & GllE Courses. John Sexton Test Preparation courses offer you distinct ad· vantages in preparing for these all important tests: •Best, most recent materials eSubstantive curricula ( not just timings) eTeam instruction by a superior faculty ePractice exams eCounseling e\Live\ instruction ( not just tapes ) eSubstantial study materials eExtra ·help sessions • LSAT/GRE/GMAT Classes Now Forming Compare John Sexton Course advantages With others, then for information call '869-7346 JOHN SEXTON TEST PREPARATION CENTER

Page 12 OONOOR_DIENSIS, October !5, 1979 . ' . . . . \ . . . . . . . . ' ' .· . ·.. . Booters Shut Out Two byRICHHOPE Union's soccer team upped its record to 5~3 Saturday with a 1-0 victory over Trinity College. Senior Pete Van Valkinbirgh tallied Union's lone goal. Midway through· a hard fought first half, freshman midfielder Andy Dreyer broke through the Trinity defense and fed Van Valkll)burgh with a beautiful pass. Van Valkinburgh slam- med the ball into the corner of the goal past the outstretched hands of a sprawling Trinity goalie. The Dutchmen defense took charge in the second half, rejecting all Trinity scoring attempts. Senior sweeper Mike Mulpeter played an outstanding game. What few balls that got passed Mulpeter were easily. handled by Doug Crawford, wl;lo chalked up his fourth shutout of the season. Fine defensive efforts were also turned in by Jamie Hilton, Pete Cholakis, and John Krumb as the team notched its third consecutive shutout. The Dutchmen Hooters· had numerous scoring opportunities l.n the second half but were unable .to take advantage of them. Hans Bukow had a rocket shot which hit the crossbar and bounded away. A good Trinity goalkeeper turned away other · strong shots from Chris Walsh and Keith Miller .. On Tuesday, before a sup- portive home crowd, the Dut- chmen ran their winning streak to four straight with a con- vincing 2-0 victory over Division I fpe Colgate. In compiling their sixth win of the season, Union also notched their sixth shutout, a school record. Senior Doug Crawford was once again superb in the goal although playing much of the second half with a broken nose. A strong defense headed by Mulpeter, Hilton, Cholakis, and Krurn led the way in the first half as the teams played to a ·scoreless tie, Realizing that they needed a win to stay alive for a NCAA bid, the Dutchmen come out for the second half determined to score. With less than two minutes gone in the half, Hans Bukow stripped the ball from a Colgate defender and raced forty yards into the Harriers Split The Union- cross-country team split a pair of dual meets this past week, beating the Middlebury Panthers 20-42 on Wednesday, but losing to RPI by a score of 25-30 on Saturday~ Adam Licht and Ed Arnheiter led the harriers in both races. The pair finished 2nd and 3rd in both the Middlebury and RPI meets. The • Middlebury meet was characterized by close team packing. Following the pair across the finish line were John Casale, Dave Dellehunt, Pete Vielkind, Jack Connor and Tom Hallenbeck in the next five positions to sew up the win. Licht and Arnheiter also placed second and third in the RPI dual meet, but the close team racing that had charac- terized most Union meets this season never materialized. The absence of team captain Pete Vielkind from the race due to personal reasons was a major factor in the loss. Although Vielkind has not won a race this year, he has served as a steadying influence on a young team. In addition, several members of the team suffered through subpar performances due to the flu. Freshman Dave Dellehunt finished sixth and Tom Hallenbeck ninth to keep the race in contention. But RPI took the next five places to wrap up the win. Jack Connor finished 15th to complete the team scoring, closely followed by Joe Londa and Dennis Conteis. The women's team fared somewhat better than their male counterparts Saturday, with a strong showing in the Hartwick Invitational. Although the women failed to field a full team, three runners placed in the top twenty in a field of 200. Freshman Inge Stockman again paced the team with a sixth place finish with a time of 18:10 for 5,000 meters. Two other freshmen, Danielle Chernlak and Joan O'Connor, placed 15th and 16th, while Laura Kronk finished 31st. -The men's team, with the split, finished the dual meet portion of their season with a record of 7-4. Combined with last year's 4-3 record, it marked the first time in 23 years that Union cross-country has postea back-to-back winning seasons. Both the men's and women's team will participate in the Albany State Invitational this Saturday. Captain Pete Vlelklnd running against Middlebury. goal mouth and fired a shot past the charging goalie. Union kept the pressure on and kept play in the Union half of the field, largely through the play of Keith Miller, Jim Stoothoff,. and Brian Shea. With ten minutes left in the game, freshman Mike Lewis followed up on a Miller blast and beat the Colgate keeper with a low drive making the score 2-0. Sophomore George Romas came in to replace Crawford and main- tained the shutout. Although not scoring, freshman Bernie Zeiphang and flashy Pete Van Valkingburgh played well as they barely missed on a few scoring oppor-tunities. The soccer team is back in action on Saturday when they travel to Marist. Gridders Homecoming Weekend brought nearly 2,500 spectators to Alexander Field to see a hard-fighting {Jnion squad fall- to Hobart in the final minute, losing 24-17, It was a very disappointing loss for Union, which was hoping to go over the .500 mark for the season. The Dutchmen watched an early 17- 7lead dwindle to a 17-17 tie until Hobart scored the winning touchdown with 1:04 left in the . game. · Union reached the scoreboard first on a first quarter field goal by Dan May. May's blast was a 37-yarder. Seemingly in total control, the Dutchmen scored again in the first quarter on a nine yard run by senior tailback Rich Romer. May's kick for the point after made the score 10-0 in favor of Union. Hobart bounced back toward the end of the first quarter on a pitchback from quarterback Bob Tretter to halfback Greg Hein, who ran nine yeards to paydirt, making the first period score 10-7, Union. . The second quarter saw the teams trade touchdowns. Union's came first when Doug Napodano received a pass in the end zone from Dana Johnston after a 13-play, 65-yard rush. Hobart retaliated later in the half when starting quarterback Pat Rumulty kept the ball and ran 42 yards for Hobart's second touchdown, but Union held on to a 17-14: halftime edge. The second half saw Union come out flat on both offense and defense. On the third of- fensive play of the second half, Union fumbled and a host of Hobart defenders pounced on the loose ball. Hobart managed to get to the 27-yard-line, when Shawn Frazic tied the game at 17 with a 37-yard field goal. Union's offense failed to threaten in the fourth quarter, being forced to punt on four of five offensive possessions and fumbling on the other. On Union's last offensive possession, Union fell short of a first down by one yard after going to Romer three con- secutive times. Union was forced to punt and Hobart's Steve Wood fair caught the ball on Union's 42-yard-line. Hobart moved the ball to the 17, setting the stage for Greg Hein's tie- breaking and game -winning run. \We haven't played well on offense all year,\ complained coach Cahill; \We couldn't move the ball at all in the second' half.\ ~was perhaps Disappointed due to Union quarterback Dana Johnston's leg cramps caused by getting kicked in the calf in the first half. Rich Romer was overworked again this week, gaining 119 yards on 37 carries. The rest of Union's running attack gained a total of minus two yards. This is the second week in a row that Romer was responsible for all of Union's yardage on the ground. In total yardage, Union was outgained~71-167. Hobart's running attack produced 228 yards, while they passed for 43. ·- Union out-passed Hobart, gaining 50 yards in the air. ·:J·:.}W 4i''o ~~ ·' }1; '~ . Union. now 2-3 faces Williams next week at Alexander Field. Union hopes to ,regain its .500 standing and it also hopes to get some revenge on Williams, ·who has defeated the Dutchmen for the last ten years. EXTRA POINTS: The Union College Dut- chman's cannon' has been returned to Union. It was returned last week in time for Homecoming. Rich Romer's 119 yards on Saturday marked the third time this season and the thirteenth time in his career that he has rushed for more than 100 yards. Dan May back to punt for Union. Sports Happenings Varsity Football Varsity Soccer J.V. Soccer Cross Country Women's Tennis ' Oct. 25-0d. 31 Oct. 27 vs. Williams Oct. 27 at Marist Oct. 31 at Binghamton Oct. 25 vs. Hartwick Oct. 29 at Siena Oct. 27 at Albany Oct. 25atSkidmore Field Hockey Oct. 25 at Skidmore Oct. 26-27 N.Y. States at Hamilton Women's Volleyball Oct. 26at New Paltz - ·vc - ' It per Ho< fro: tou bee A sea sen ter< wor ove not cop uc, the~ a no tha1 tom did nan call elig AlA gav Al 0 Coil nex ThE Go\ SUp] Jan All- Sen witl fac1 con: liaS I Tl age1 est a \to thre in f: syst Fa< Hun the Al only the tow; issu mit1

