Vol. 108, No. 17. \ 0 If. • • J'oundeJ at Union :College 1877 Schenectady., New York Thurs~ay, April 12 1 1979 Col.lege Trustees ChoOse Morris ~ by DOUG ROSENFELD much substance to the rumor Huntley and President Auburn that Mr, John Selwyn Morris, as . .the only administrators currently of Colgate Uni:versity, present. will assume the responsibilities Aecol:'\ding to Huntley, Mr. of President of Union College Morris was the candidate who and Chaneellour of Union best.fulfilled several c1iteria for University. The 53-year-old a desirable president as set up Morris was Chosen as president by the Presidential Selections at a special March l4.meeting of Committees at the outset of the trustees at tne University their search. It was felt that Club in N.Y.G:- He is due to \Union College's chief officer arrive in Schenectady on or surely must be someone wllo is about August 1 to assume his a scholar and under,stands positions following a June and scholarshipi\ someone with a July stay in England, where he \fair amount of experience in a intends to visit with relatives small college;\ someone who It is rumored around campus that -of the three candidates chosen as finalists in the UColl presidential selection process, two withdrew their candidacies prior to the ~esignation of a pre&ident. If this rumor is true, it implies that the final choice of a pr,esident was predicated on a contest with only one com- petitor. ProvoSl._ C~ William Huntley, chairman of the local Presidential Search Com- mittee, dismisses the rumor as •·•absolutely not true.\ Union',s new .president~John Morris . There is, on the other hand, and teach. has ''demonstrated bis capacity The appointment of Morris as as an administrator;'' and Theater Controversy by LAURIE MINTZ The Arts have long attempted to .find a definite role for themselves · in · both the curricular and the· ex- tracurricular lives at. Union .. With the 1971 and 1972 hiril)gs of Barry Smith and Charles Steckler, respecUvely, the Arts Department--demonstrated a certain dedication to ... the development of drama at Union College. BlJ_t as the Drama Department attempts to define its role .and responsibilities, it comes into conflict with the Jcboo\ ~rama club, Moun- tebanks. The Arts ~ept. and~ the Mountebanks, as separate organizations with loosely- defined rights, responsibilities and overlapping interests are, not surprisingly, in conflict, The ongoing wave of tension between' the two groups has finally crested. The Arts Dept. and the . Drama . Divisi9n, agreeing that the student-rUn . Mountebanks was mismanaging funds· and being divisive in its student-faculty relations, have wrested control of the Nott from the Moun-. tebanks.. The question of fun- ding for drama programs .and dramatic productions is the crux of the difficulty. M o u n t e b a .n k s i s , theoretically, a student club consisting of students who. are · interested 'in the theatre. In fact, it is one of the oldest theatri:cal clubs in the country. The Union College Moun- teb~nks beg~n as. a group of students who put on informal, fun plays under the Sl!pervision of an English Professor in- terested in drama. Until 1962, the Mountebanks were located in Washburn HalL At this time the library was moved out of the Nott and the latter became the theatre. The Mountebanks, being a student activity, was funded by student tax money, a fact which still holds true. ~'\'\ began to grow; students were too. The students in Moun,. able to get creqit for working on tebanks own and maintain most a show. At the same time, the of the equipment in the Nott. Mountebanks began to develop Furthermore, the students built due to the new theater program. additional theater space during The two entities began to the summer of 1975 in the develop what came to be a Director's Lab Theater. Tliis symbiotic relationship. theater is located on the second Classroom experience l)ecame floor of Carnegie. training for actual ·theater. The Arts-department and the · · experience. - -·--- · -- Mountebanks- are· intertwined. · Tl].e co!lege continued to fund According to· Tom · FarteH, a the Drama division: paying for mem'ber of the Mountebanks salaries, lighting and electricity executive board, the while Student ·Activities con- organization has the money and tinued to support the produc- the Arts departm~nt has the tions of the student club. k.nowledge.. The cost of a As the two entities deveioped production at Union is enor- and intermingled, Barry Smith mous; the actual production, developed the idea of TAP- ticketing, and maintenance of Theater Artists Program. technical equipment runs Under this program, around 17;000 ~lars annually. professional artists are brought This money comes from student in to assist with the plays. tax, the . President's According to Srillth, the · idea Discretionary Fund, Planning & behind TAP is to expose the Ptiorities, and box office. take .. students to professional theater According to Wisoff the and avoid an '.'ingrown\ \problem is all in the definition program. · · of ·student activities.\ Student The key issue is where the tax has been partially paying money for TAP and the for an academic program. dramatic productions comes Furthermore, up until this fall ,from. The Arts department is the students were \calling the not funded for these and so the sbots,l' according to Smith. The money has to come from other Arts department wants to take places. According to Smith, the the responsibility of running original money for TAP came and financing away from the from some \SE>£>d 'lloney\ that Mountebanlts. Mountebanks former President Bonner had~ ...._ members seem to agree with Bonner. gave the money because fact that this is the way it should he felt that the Art department ~. but much. more is involved. was important to Union. The ' money was not always avaih1ble, however, and ac- cording to the Mountebanks' ex- business manager, Andrew Wisoff, for the past few years the money has simply come from \wherever we can .get it.\ For the past tbree -years, Wisoff has been administering the money .for TAP: \I ad· minister the money and ac- tually pay the people.'' Smith and Steckler hj.re the artists. Last fall and winter, the funds came from the President's Discretionary Fund. Altnough Wisoff requested the money he feels that \a program should not be· built on discretionary fund money.\ c Union President signals the end ''someone with soiiie ex- of a long and arduous search perience in, and some ability and selection ·process ·which for, fund-raising.\ involved six months of efforts A Welshman by birtll, Mr. by two search committees ·and Morris' educational ex::perience the review of no less than 175 has formed itself in ·Great applicants. Of the original 175 Britain· and the United States. applications screened by the His major academic con- local Search Committee centration is in the field of the (composed of students, faculty, Philosophy of Religion, and as administrators, and trll$tees), degrees he boasts a B • .A. (1950) about 25 were viewed \with a from the University College of g reat degree of favor,\ ac- South u: 7 1 s B A ... M A nra e ; a . . an... . . cording to Huntley. Ten of these (1953-57) from the University of 25 were referred to ..the..N.Y .c. -. Cambridge; an M.A. (1957) Search Committee (composed from Colgate, and a Ph.D. of trustees) and the field (1961) from Columbia narrowed to seven. The N.Y.C. University. His experience in group interviewed extensively the field of academia extends all of these seven people, and beyond his impressive list of eventually decided upon three degrees. He has ta11gllt and finalists, Mr. Babbitt, Mr. served in the administration of Neville, and Mr. Morris. Colgate for many years and in On Mar. 7, Provost HWltley many positions, including that brought to the N. Y.C. group a of Acting President of Colgate summary of the campus t:Jniversity. reaction to the three finalists, Mr. Morris' reswne is an deriv.ed f!om ~ review of irnpres_sive compendi11m of questlonnau-es filled out by , committee activity, educational people who heard the men achievement, adrillnistrative speak when they visited Union. ' exper~ence, club affiliations, As a result of favorable campus and scholarly achievement. The reaction to Morris, and the author of many articles and --riassuring remarks of Colgate several books in the areas of his personnel whose opinions on expertise, relig_ion, philosophy, Morris were solicited in a visit and administrative !}roblems, to that university by Dr. Day (a Morris is also the author cf The college trustee) and President C«Jntenporary Theological Auburn, the N.Y.C. committee Task, \a book-length decided to offer the position to manuscript almost ready for Morris in their Mar. 14 meeting. submission for consideration,\ The final decision on a Union Although Morris will fl()t take President was made by a up the reigns of office tJ.ntil Aug. coinmittee ·devoid of students l. efforts are being made in the and faculty, with Provost Continued OD. pa£e 11 While the Mountebanks are· a relatively old student organization at Union, the Arts Department is relatively new. In 1971, Barry Sllli.th was hired as a professor of drama and he began to develop the theatre program here. In 1912, Charles Steckler became an assistant professor. Previously; he had been a staff member who had helped with the theater. The academic theater. program This past fall, however, the ~ Art department took charge of ~ handling the money which was ~ secured from the Fund. Both ex the· department and . Wisoff ~ agreed that this was \the way it ~ should be.\ Problems and. f conflicts revolving around money are evident elsewhere Scene f.rom - \Rohber Bridegroom/# Mountebi!lnk's last production.

\ 1;!\~~, ~t \:\i ?ril'~'\l\':!nl1SlJY'!:\HV\l Page 2 OONOORDIENS.IS, April 12, 1919 · Editorial Identity And Purpose With the appointment of John Mortis to the Presidency of Union, the 'campus community finds itself at once hopeful and fearful of what the new administration may bring. Ambivalence is the order of the day in a community where cynicism and apathy, the le.gacy left us by our so-called 'Bonner- gate' scandal. find the possibility of relief through a fresh leadership approach. We want to feel as a college with an identity and purpose, yet we are afraid lest we find the wrong identity and a deficient purpose. The Bonner years are -behind us now, and our time of self-pity has drawn itself out well beyond any re~sonable limit. No longer can we revel in our non- commital attitude by blending into the shadow of the 'lame duck' Auburn administration. The college and its people are to be more or less forced to roll with the punches of Mr. Morris; administration, and it is largely by his hand that our future shape will be molded. · The hope is that :Mr. Morris will have the courage to grasp firmly the reigns pf office and that he will have the foresight to gUide Union in a direction which suits its fancy. To find and to maintain a vision of wh1,1t Union should aspire to be as an educational institution is the most vital and basic task to which Mr. Morris must address himself. A proud and unified college body should be the priority set by Morris, as it should be the priority set by us all. Morris must also be prepared to meet the ad- ministrative challenges of the 1980's, a decade which is projected by even the most conservative forecasters to- be one of uncertainty for small, private liberal arts colleges like Union. The pressures brought to bear on enrollment quantity, quality, and revenue by a declining college-aged population is one issue which will have. to be addressed. Raising funds to ensure the college's financial security is another presidential function which will gain significance in an inflationary economy. The role of students in the administrative affairs of the college is another issue which already is showing earmarks of becoming problematic, as the disputes over the current drafts of the governance system demonstrate. . While the importance of the demands upon Mr. Morris in the time to come cannot be overstated, neither should the contribution to the college of Mr. Auburn be understated. He assumed the position -of president at a difficult time, held things on a steady course, and so it would be inappropriate to dismiss him without a well-meant thank-you. C!Innrnr Editors-in-Chief Douglas Rosenfeld, Sara Sirrunons News Editors Paul Feiilsot, Melissa Cragin Layout Editors Matt Nagorsky, Dan WojnUower Feature Editors Sue Barnhart, Donna Creeley Associate Editor David Rubin Business Editors Carole Reinig, Gina Torrisi Classified Editor Roberta Moss Arts Editor Cindy Aranow Sports Editors Matt Kayne, Mark Palomba Copy Editor Pam Ryan · Photography Editor Pat Wrignt Fine Lines Editor Jan DeDeka Staff Pat Condello, Ellen VanDyke, Jason Seiken, Mindy Broser, Susan Marr, Rachel Mandel ·Letters \ Ski Club T0 the Editor: In res(le)nse ·to the conm1eais of ·~flve eon.eerned ski elub-- bers~' who presented their compla<ints reg!lrdint; •. ···the '~ll!raniltatiil[m of';:tbis year's ·ski the West Mountain Corps It iS arranged time. Some they to whom the ski club Wtlre still . \u\'\~ members paid tMir. package preswnably still outside Wl11lg Uft~ticket fees and -the bus on tbe mountain: The transportation was arranged h;y concerned-ski elubbers\ wartted them. . t~~let~<t: ~t ~imatmr The· aeeond ac:cuaathln • p .• Jn~,.· fte.· 41, mln:Ute.s. asserted ·that alth'i).Ugh, ·•· a •· · -~ majority , ot t1te.:, ski .. membet$· Wis~:·t•le-a,t-.)J\YV>~-. re\;ause Union Views: Spring Break '79 Going For Daytona byJIMDAVIS The sun was wann, the music was loud and the college students who visited Daytona Beach, Fla. last month on spring break were both. Enticed by glowing reports of others' trips. south, this reporter was one of about a quarter of a million collegians who made the trek this year to .find a place in the sun .. And I wasn't disap- pointed. Warm, cloudless days set the mood and the pace of activities. For most, things got underway around 10 in the morning. Throughout the day, the beach- boasted by locals to be \the most famous in the world\-was bustling. · All the notice it receives is deserved. Composed of superfine, finnly packed sand, it's hard .enough to allow autos to drive in both directions, though the speed limit , is restricted to 10 mph and pedestrians have the rigbt•of- way. In addition, the beach at Daytona plays host to a number of more COJ)Ventional goingSc{)il. Those include sunbathing and frisbee games, .as. well as numerous jaunts into the sur(, whose temp.erature hovered around 70 degrees at the end of March. Along with the ocean, most of the motels that line the waterfront also maintain swimming pools. And as much as anywhere else, the one ,where I stayed was a place to be during the day. A casual feeling of shared experience, all too rarely achieved at college, prevailed. This was encouraged by a poolside stereothat filled the air with music, A powerful punch, composed of sewage qr swamp water, depending on who you asked, also helped to lu6ricate the atmosphere. By late afternoon, after the intoxicating effects of the SWI, surf and these other elements had taken hold, it was pretty much anything goes .. ' Pushing bystanders into the pool was a favorlte pastime- regardless of what the victims were wearing or drinking. (So much beer was spilled in the poo~ th~t some suggested buymg 1t wa_s .unnece'ssary; drinking pool water would have the same effect.). Several afternoons were higbligbted.by a comedy routine performed by a hefty, mustached gent known simply as ''Rocky.'' . . Perched atop the high dive platform (the board had been removed several years ago after a guest drove a bicycle off it), he mouthed the words to a Steve Martin recording played over the stereo, hardly missing a beat and proyiding the ap- propriate motions and gestures. The pool's lifeguard took a hands•off attitude. This probably owed to what ap- peared to be their (there were three during my stay) primary pursuit: selling suntan products. With a manner that would have done any roadside huckster prqud, they roam~d around the pool and beach, gleefully searching for ·\potential customers\ on which to pawn their wares, which they toted in a leather shoulder pouch. It didn't matter what sort of tan (or bum) you had; they had a pitch for you. For newcomers, warnings _ were dispensed about the dangers of too much sun, . and the chances of serious harm if the app:r:-opriate lotions and oils weren't purchased. . Bronzed sun veterans were given a different line: For that great tan to last, you had to buy an after-sun product, to be liberally &pplied after a day outdoors. Although the students who ventured a bit further south to Fort Lauderdale were probably a little more .affluent, those in Daytona also had bucks to burn. And the suntan lotion salesmen were relatively small-time prospectors in this goldfieid. Producers of other gcods have also long attempted to market their lines and improve their image among the well-to- do college crowd that visits Daytona. And this year, for the first time, they . pooled and organized their efforts in . two expositions, taking place at motels in the middle ~nd end of March. . . . , Here, firms like Playboy, represented . by a gaggle of autograph-signing bunnies, and · Budweiser, which gave aw~y shirts, cups and the like as prizes in a dart throwing competition, hOped to stick their names in the minds of the large numbers attending, regardless of the outside weather. From the end of February through the begmning of AprU, Daytona Beach ·thrives with student trade. It's not far from the truth to note that the area spends the other ten months of the year cleaning and resting for the next season's onslaught. So it is thatthe 'fstrip,\ a five- mile stretch along the ocean,!, is devoted entirely to motets, restaurants, bars and other such havens for collegiate · vacationers. During the day, some of these retreats tried to attract patrons with a number of advertfsing methods. · Most widespread was via radio.,.... where, if one was to believe the claims made., there are no less than half-a-dozen establishments offering the best drink prices or the largest dance floors in the area. More exotic promotions included several wet t-shirt contests, as well as one for eating bananas. Single-engined planes also flew the length of the beach- front, bearing banners promoting various products and . nightspots. And it's~ after the sun goes down that Daytona fully comes to life. The offerings are varied, ranging from bars to bands to discos, but they· all have a comrnon denominator: they cost.money. ft'or the most part, though, it's well epent. The diversity of the area's attractions offered something for most everyone. It's appropriate, then, that this reporter's most vivid memories are nocturnal. Occurrmg on the final night of my stay_ (which should ple.ase the chamber . of· corrunerce, since that greatly increases the chances of a return visit), they begin with beer and a Billy Joel tape bythe pool, are highlighted by a :wallt ~long the beach several hours later . with a. midwestern .girl, and conclude with a 4 a.m. plunge, fully clothed, into the motel pool. .Most every visitor probably has similar, yet unique, s~ories. • A good deal of the similarity lies in their positive nature. : Daytona Beach during spring break may not be a realistic situation. Indeed, one friend reported a sert of cultur~ shock when he was again confronted with adults and other non~ coUegiate types. Still, those who went there this spring did so to, in a- currently . poplilar expression, \go for it.\ Few came Up· short. Contino~ fre \\'''\vfr.. · ,. was d being fil~ed people}~\U'flfoli studenl~-t~k p; Mt. skipaciage to fill the- bus, fered a~ lPSS of the fourth (arid trip WESt' Mt. inform ~'tlte ski that transport~ nroviloe<t• b.yt.he; a loss wta1Ung weeks. In a pro~ Union's (most prograt'JlS. (If 50 Joss is substant were either t~ sportatibn Ct student fo-r the ask the ski elu form

Page 2 OONOORDIENSIS, April 12, 1919 Editorial Identity And Purpose With the appointment of John Morris to the Presidency of Union, the campus community finds itself at once hopeful and fearful of what the new administration may bring. Ambivalence is the order of the day in a community where cynicism and apathy, the legacy left us by our so-called 'Bonner- gate' scandal, find the possibility of relief through a fresh leadership approach. We want to feel as a college with an identity and purpose, yet we are afraid lest we find the wrong identity and a deficient purpose. The Bonner years are behind us now, and our time of self-pity has drawn itself out well beyond any reasonable limit. No longer can we revel in our non- commital attitude by blending into the shadow of the 'lame duck' Auburn administration. The college and its people are to be more or less forced to roll with the punches of Mr. Morris' administration, and it is largely by his hand that our future shape will be molded. The hope is that Mr. Morris will have the courage to grasp firmly the reigns pf office and that he will have the foresight to guide Union in a direction which suits its fancy. To find and to maintain a vision of what Union should aspire to be as an educational institution is the most vital and basic task to which Mr. Morris must address himself. A proud and unified college body should be the priority set by Morris, as it should be the priority set by us all. Morris must also be prepared to meet the ad- ministrative challenges of the 1980's, a decade which is projected by even the most conservative forecasters to be one of uncertainty for small, private liberal arts colleges like Union. The pressures brought to bear on enrollment quantity, quality, and revenue by a declining college-aged population is one issue which will have to be addressed. Raising funds to ensure the college's financial security is another presidential function which will gain significance in an inflationary economy. The role of students in the administrative affairs of the college is another issue which already is showing earmarks of becoming problematic, as the disputes over the current drafts of the governance system demonstrate. While the importance of the demands upon Mr. Morris in the time to come cannot be overstated, neither should the contribution to the college of Mr. Auburn be understated. He assumed the position of president at a difficult time, held things on a steady course, and so it would be inappropriate to dismiss him without a well-meant thank-you. aLnnrnr Editors-in-Chief News Editors Layout Editors Feature Editors Associate Editor Business Editors Classified Editor Arts Editor Sports Editors Copy Editor Photography Editor Fine Lines Editor Staff Douglas Rosenfeld, Sara Simmons Paul Feinsot, Melissa Cragin Matt N agorsky, Dan Wojnilower Sue Barnhart, Donna Creeley David Rubin Carole Reinig, Gina Torrisi Roberta Moss Cindy Aranow Matt Kayne, Mark Palomba Pam Ryan PatWrignt JanDeDeka Pat Condello, Ellen VanDyke, Jason Seiken, Mindy Broser, Susan Marr, Rachel Mandel Letters \ Ski Club T0 the Editor: In response to the comments of \five concerned ski club- hers .. who presented their complaints regarding the organiu\ti~ of this year~s ski club in the l!4aren l.i$sue-~Upw _ me to completelY tnvwmat~ · their accusations. Criticism ami llelR.·~~ weleQ~~, QUil.J;l(Jt. w~en founded on miSinformation., ' The first item on com- Hfive eonoorMd ski clubber.s' ,.. li&t reters to the one Tuesday nigbt ski trip wben the bus which was i:U~~ 1 :~ri:i. .&eitr~:~= · ski club advisor and they blame us. We organized the weekly trips. Had these concerned individuals thought to askJ they would have been informed that weekly responsibility for reserving the bus lay solely with the West Mountain Corps It iS arranged time. &me they t() whom the ski club were still . um:t~Ci()Untea members paid their packag(:) presumably still oUtside pru:ulo lift~ticket fees and the bus on the mountain.' The transportation was arranged by concerned ski clubbetsJ' wm1ted them. to-leave at appro~imately lO; The second accusation . p~m.. The 45 minute$ asserted that alth&ug.h a · . nave waJ~atllt~~ maj()rity ot the ski club members wished to leave .west Si:«lJ: .(lte:S(lt'Jt~: M~. eal\l¥: o:n Of.i because of''. t!xtfre weather* tbi;r .. £eqit&st demoo,'IJ · clul>aersllof ~asonfor r~tb:ammg at' · · area fot tbe f ¢ originally agr was that· ••tne bat Wi$Jt)QJt~mf.titJng. n ~t ;~ Jn~ld .. . • ls_,~ thatti:M> •. {he majority of·~ club members wiShed to return home before 1l'p~m.~ thete were still others who bad ab$olutely . no knowledge. Qf any de$ire by roughly $121f per trip~ Eaeh the other club members to club memher was charged return earlier than the pr~ · Union Views: Spring Break '79 Going For Daytona by JIM DAVIS The sun was warm, the music was loud and the college students who visited Daytona Beach, Fla. last month on spring break were both. Enticed by glowing reports of others' trips south, this reporter was one of about a quarter of a million collegians who made the trek this year to find a place in the sun. And I wasn't disap- pointed. Warm, cloudless days set the mood and the pace of activities. For most, things got underway around 10 in the morning. Throughout the day, the beach- boasted by locals to be \the most famous in the world\-was bustling. All the notice it receives is deserved. Composed of superfine, firmly packed sand, it's hard enough to allow autos to drive in both directions, though the speed limit ·is restricted to 10 mph and pedestrians have the right-of- way. In addition, the beach at Daytona plays host to a number of more conventional goingS\() fl. Those include sunbathing and frisbee games, as well as nwnerous jaunts into the surf, whose temperature hovered around 70 degrees at the end of March. Along with the ocean, most of the motels that line the waterfront also maintain swimming pools. And as much as anywhere else, the one where I stayed was a place to be during the day. A casual feeling of shared experience, all too rarely achieved at college, prevailed. This was encouraged by a poolside stereo that filled the air with music. A powerful punch, composed of sewage or swamp water, depending on who you asked, also helped to lu6ricate the atmosphere. By late afternoon, after the intoxicating effects of the sun, surf and these other elements had taken hold, it was pretty much anything goes. ' Pushing bystanders into the pool was a favorite pastime- regardless of what the victims were wearing or drinking. (So much beer was spilled in the pool that some sug~ested buying it wa.s unnecessary; drinking pool water would have the same effect.) Several afternoons were highlighted by a comedy routine performed by a hefty, mustached gent known simply as \Rocky.\ . Perched atop the high dive platform (the board had been removed several years ago after a guest drove a bicycle off it), he mouthed the words to a Steve Martin recording played over the stereo, hardly missing a beat and providing the ap- propriate motions and gestures. The pool's lifeguard took a hands-off attitude. This probably owed to what ap- peared to be their (there were three during my stay) primary pursuit: selling suntan products. With a manner that would have done any roadside huckster proud, they roamed around the pool and beach, gleefully searching for \potential customers\ on which to pawn their wares, which they toted in a leather shoulder pouch. It didn't matter what sort of tan (or burn) you had; they had a pitch for you. For newcomers, warnings were dispensed about the dangers of too much sun, and the chances of serious harm if the appropriate lotions and oils weren't purchased. Bronzed sun veterans were given a different line: For that great tan to last, you had to buy an after-sun product, to be liberally r.pplied after a day outdoors. Although the students who ventured a bit further sauth to Fort Lauderdale were probably a little more affluent, those in Daytona also had bucks to burn. And the suntan lotion salesmen were relatively small-time prospectors in this goldfield. Producers of other goods have also long attempted to market their lines and improve their image among the well-to- do college crowd that visits Daytona. And this year, for the first time, they pooled and organized their efforts in . two expositions, taking place at motels in the middle and end of March. Here, firms like Playboy, represented . by a gaggle of autograph-signing bunnies, and Budweiser, which gave away shirts, cups and the like as prizes in a dart throwing competition, hoped to stick their names in the minds of the large numbers attending, regardless of the outside weather. From the end of February through the beginning of April, Daytona Beach thrives with student trade. It's not far from the truth to note that the area spends the other ten months of the year cleaning and resting for the next season's onslaught. So it is that the ''strip,\ a five- mile stretch along the ocean, is devoted entirely to moteis, restaurants, bars and other such havens for collegiate vacationers. During the day, some of these retreats tried to attract patrons with a number of advertl5ing methods. Most widespread was via radio, where, if one was to believe the claims made, there are no less than half-a-dozen establishments offering the best drink prices or the largest dance floors in the area. More exotic promotions included several wet t-shirt contests, as well as one for eating bananas. Single-engined planes also flew the length of the beach- front, bearing banners promoting various products and nightspots. And it's4 after the sun goes down that Daytona fully comes to life. The offerings are varied, ranging from bars to bands to discos, but they all have a common denominator: they cost. money. J:t'or the most part, t:p.ough, it's well epent. The diversity of the area's attractions offered something for most everyone. It's appropriate, then, that this reporter's most vivid memories are nocturnal. Occurring on the final night of my stay (which should please the chamber of conunerce, since that greatly increases the chances of a return visit), they begin with beer and a Billy Joel tape by the pool, are highlighted by a walk along the beach several hours later with a. midwestern girl, and conclude with a 4 a.m. plunge, fully clothed, into the motel pool. Most every visitor probably has similar, yet unique, s~ories. A good deal of the similarity lies ' in their positive nature. Daytona Beach during spring break may not be a realistic situation. Indeed, one friend reported a S&rt of culture shock when he was again confronted with adults and other non- collegiate types. Still, those who went there this spring did so to, in a currently popular expression, \go for it.\ Few came up short. Ski C Continued fr :::~ .. .• :. 1 ur-• trip for 1 ortation. l.r. ur;>VE!r., WlilS C being fil~e( Unfor ~rF:Istua1e_nts took 1 skipackag· to fill the. bus a loss of fourth (an West Mt :~fnot''fYI the sk that transpor1 ' provided by th~ a loss totallin~ weeks. In a pr<l Union's (mos programs of 5! loss is suhstaiJ were either t sportation c student forth ask the ski cl form a car~poc would be pro tha t( Starting oo 18 at 'l':t{}Q~ ActiVities ·'Of requestea tn

Ski Club It's a good idea for students planning to eat off--campus to make reservations as well. A Continu(td from page 1· list of names and numbers of \\'· some restaurants will be trip f« · roundMtrup . tran· available in the Student sportation. This figute, Activities Office. however, was dependent on the l11; order for the weekend to be beiag fil~ed to capacity (36 · a success~ much help is needed Peop le)·~.,.~1fllfort. unat. eh' onlv 2.·.1 f ~o. n · JJ ·\' rom tiie co ege commuruty. student~:~k part tn t}le West, .Any. service you have to offer Mt. skipaeiage. NQ,t being able would be greatly appreciated. to fill fl\te. bus, W~st. Mt. suf.. . 'fhase interested are asked to fered a:}pss of f.25 p.¢r ~rip .. On . contact R.huda Kupferberg, the fourtlf' (and second tO\ last)_ 6623 1 RobertaMQsst 6196. Ql' see trip West> Mt. requested ·we Mrs. Marra in. Student inform ~th-e ski club members ActivitieS; So, get ready for a that transportatiun had been big weekend that promises to be < byt.hem every week at od tim f 11 a loss totalling $10(Htfter fonr ~ go \ e ·or a · weeks. In a program~ small as Parents Weekend Committee Union's (most school$ have prograws <Jf 50--150 people) this Joss is substantial. The chokes were either to increase tran~ sportattbn costs for,_ eaeb student for the final trip or to ask the ski club if they wffl.Ud Our toss Dear Editors: institution exists for the . education of students, not for the advancemiJnt of professors. Let's not -see the situation oc- curring again. ' A Concerned Student Invite An open invitation to all members of the administr~Uon: This is an oren invitation to all members o administration: particularly President Auburn and the Head of Housing, David Woods. One _.afternoon, why not take a tour ·of the lounges in the various dorms around campus? However, may I just give you one warning: when ap~ proaching third floor West's founge bring a change of clothes. Considering the lack of furidture we doubt that you'll want to sit on the floor in your responsibility is merely to collect the money for the movies which we have chosen and paid for.in our budget. We have done everything to insure a. minimal number of oc- currances of problems and the rest ts tne responsibility of the projectionist to actually run the prn ject<>rs. · films that will hopefully appeal to the · large majority. Also watch for the great weekend cartoons before the main at~ traction, Road Runner, Pink Panther, and Daffy Duck. to name just a few. This is a ·new term and we think you will see the improved quality of entertainment we are trying to provide. Cindy Vanina Chairman, Film Committee \0 R A \ ur . . The sound system has also been highly criticized. But again we rent SS016 from the college. And unfortunately there is no budget provided to accommodate the operating cost, maintenance, and repairs of the projectors and sound To Dorm Dwellers of Union system. Every effort has been made to improve the quality of College: sound. And in recent weeks, there have been improvements As students living in a k mitory, we have n<>ticed made by rewiring the spea ers Resident Advisors are often on the ceiling. Consequently, mocked, teased and at the sound has improved con- even abused. We all know that it siderably. · So let me rffassure you that is in jest, but perhaps an honest this -t~rm will NOT continue in expression of appreciation is in t~e, ~tne wa it ~r~~~t(l::, ~~~:kin~!~:e:.1~ .. 0 ~ 0 ;:~:! ~<f-. cb\)8~ . , < Contfltaed o~ pJJge i1 .-·J~ ~~1:!5 . :-~~,<>:· '-~} :· ·--:-::' .: .. •:'·-~. . .' ; . . - j . '~ . . . . . . . Senate Meets The College Senate recently held a regular meeting in Old Chapel on April 5. The general concern of the meeting was the need to maintain an orderly and efficient functioning of the . Senate Committees. The first item on the agenda called for each of the com- mittees to submit a written report by April 20th, stating goals and ac- complishments, to be reviewed by the Senate. Some ~cussion arose over terming this a proposal since a :wecific date was involved, so it was suggested that this should be changed to a resolution. There was, h<>wever, general agreement about the necessity of instilling new life in the committees as well as for revising or dropping the un- productive committees. The resolution was then revised and passe~ unanimously. The second resolution was intended to make the com~ mittees and college community aware of the 1975 Governanc~ Report which outlines the procedures for the committees to follow. Forum Vice-President Murray Levison suggested that many people are unaware of the proper pr<>cedure for for~ mulation of the committee's policies and urged that these procedures should either be followed or changed~ There was general agreement of this from the Senate and the resolution was passed. Following this were matters not scheduled on the agenda. The Senate was reminded of Union's policy regarding religious holidays, which states that no student can be penalized for missing work due to his observance of a religious holiday. Andy Mitchell of the EPC then presented a complaint to the Senate concerning the poor physical conditions of several of the college's classrooms. lie was · directed by Provost Huntley to speak to the trustees when they visit on April 20th and 21st. The meeting was then adj<>urned. Greek $ystem Organizes by DAN BOOTII Article I, Preamble . In order that the fraternities- sororities of Union College may be able to assist mor~ ef· fectively in promoting the weUare of the College and become more responsible as . integral .parts of the college community, the fraternities- sororities of Union College hereby ordain and establish this Constitution and Uniform .By- Laws of the Interfraternity organization. This is the Preamble to the Constitution and By-Laws of the Interfraternity Council of Union College, whose :adoptiop. is soon to be voted on by the IFC. For those who recognize the IFC only as that body which an- nually sponsors the IFC Winter Ball, it is a council which represents the entire fraternity- sorority system on campus, approximately 33 percent of the student body. Yet its pqrpose is unknown. It is obvious that a council which represents ~uch a large percentage of students should be more active in the activities and promotion of activities 011 campus. This constitution clearly states this purpose, where there hitherto was none. Most of the constitution deals with superficialities, such as when the IFC shall meet and attendance problems, but the ByoLaws deal with some of the most important issues on Union College campus. The Conduct Committee, comprised of the Assistant Dean of Students, the President of IFC, the Vice- President of the IFC, and three other council members, is the most important of the- com- mittees. Its purpose is to \discipline its members and to recommend discipline to the appropriate body for frater- nities-sororities that violate these rtiles.\ This will clear up any problems between the fr~ternities, or between · the fraternities and the ad- ministration·, · particularly problems dealing with violations of stud,ent rights, as in the recent case involving Kappa Alpha; they allegedly violate.d. student rights by playing loud music despite requests to lower the volume. Another of the By-Laws which could become important in the future is the last By-Law; which makes provision for new fraternities to be admitted to the IFC, provided that they are recognized by the college. This could become important as there is a new fraternity starting here on campus, Kappa Sigma. · Of special interest to the incoming freshmen is the Rushing Committee, which will iris~e that the procedure for rushing will be fair in regard to specific times for rushing (not during finals week), and any other areas deemed essential to an effective system. Though this constitution is ;till being debated by the IFC, it .s certain that some form of a ~onstitution will be accepted. fhe constitution is in itself a good concept, for it gives justification to the existence of the IFC, but, like all con- 3titutions, it cannot survive withnut the support of the in- dependent fraternities-soror- ities on campus. Hopefully the fraternities-sororities will support the constitution for the promotion of the welfare of Union College.

Page 3 etters----- Ski Club Contfuued from page 1 \> trip for round~trup tran ... ortation. This figure, hr.u.•~>v~tr., was dependent <Jn the being filled to capacity (30 people)~ Unfortunately only 21 students took part in the West. Mt. ski package. N<;Jt being able to fill the. bus, West, Mt. suf- a loss of $25 per trip. On fourth (and second to last) West Mt. requested we , •. : •• f\r•m the ski dab members that transportation had been provided by them every week at . loss totalling $100 after four • weeK;.l), In a program l!-S small as Union's (most schools have programs of 50·150 people} this loss is substantial. The choiees were either tn increase tran- sportation costs for · each student for the final trip or to ask the ski club if they would forlll a.car~pool. Transportation would be provided for fifteen that .. ccmld fmq nn way to the It's a good idea for students planning to eat offwcannpus to make reservations as wen. A list of names and numbers of some restaurants will be' available in the Student Activities Office. In order for the weekend to be a suecess, much help is needed from tbe- college conununity. .Any set•vice yQu have to Qffer would be greatly appreciated. Those interested are asked to contact Rhoda Kupferberg, 6623. Roberta Moss, 67~, Qr see Mrs. Marra in Student Activities. So, get ready for a big weekend that promises to be 1:1 good time for all. Parents Weekend Committee Our Loss Dear Editors: A disturbing trend has been notieeable lately on campus, namely the lack . of control regarding ,pro.fessor~' duties. to seen institution exists for the · education of students, not for the advancement of professors. Let's not see the situation oc- curring again. A Concerned Student Invite An open invi~ation to all members of the administration: This is an open invitation to all members of administration: particularly President Auburn and the Head of Housing, David Woods. One.afternoon, WQY not take a tour of the lounges in the various dorms around campus? However, may I just give you one warning: when ap- proaching third floor West's lounge bring a change of clothes. Considering the lack of furniture we doubt that you'll want to sit on the floor in your good clothes. · A little math: -00 on the floor ... l'(~ug~ly OJ<t.;iilau a year tuition . i . . iltlVllB A'S sCheduled, ·• \'As of.,, ,Jhe ,,F,flm, · · . .·.··.····, . ,rdlik~ t(Ulpologiz.e for the. minute ·cancenatfun of ~h~ 7:00 mavie Satttr<ia?' • .But- we :Can't takt the full blame f-or •.. this. eoAtiilu.ation of ·problems wh!eq pla~e tbe .. Film Comr- · mittee •... responsibility is merely to collect the money for the movies which we have chosen and paid for in our budget. We have done everything to insure a minimal number of oc- currances of problems and the rest iS the responsibility of the projectionist to actually run the projectors. · The sound system has also been highly criticized. But again we rent SS016 from the college. And unfortunately there is no budget provided to accommodate the operating cost, maintenance, and repairs of the projectors and sound system. Every effort has been made to improve the quality of sound. And in recent weeks, there have been improvements made by rewiring the speakers on the ceiling. Consequently, the sound has improved con· siderably. So let me reassure you that this term will NOT continue in the same way it started. We have worked out solutions to the problems, and have chosen films that will hopefully appeal to the · large majority. Also watch for the great weekend cartoons before the main at~ traction, Road Runner, Pink Panther, and Daffy Duck, to name just a few. This is a new term and we think you will see the improved quality of entertainment we are trying to provide. Cindy Vanina Chairman, Film Committee \0 R A\ ur . . To Dorm Dwellers of College: As students living in a dor- mitory, we have noticed that Resident Advisors are often mocked, teased and at times even abused. We all know that it is in jest, but perhaps an honest expression of appreciation is in order. This poem is our way of thanking \our R.A.\ Don't you Continued on page 11 Senate Meets The College Senate recently held a regular meeting in Old Chapel on April 5. The general concern of the meeting was the need to maintain an orderly and efficient functioning of the Senate Committees. The first item on the agenda called for each of the com- mittees to submit a written report by April 20th, stating their goals and ac- complishments, to be reviewed by the Senate. Some dis,cussion arose over terming this a proposal since a :wecific date involved, so it was suggested that this should be changed to a resolution. There was, however, general agreement about the necessity of instilling new life in the committees as well as for revising or dropping the un- productive committees. The resolution was then revised and passed unanimously. The second resolution was intended to make the com- mittees and college community aware of the 1975 Governance Report which outlines the procedures for the corrunittees to follow. Forwn VicewPresident Murray Levison suggested that many people are unaware of the proper procedure for for- mulation of the committee's policies and urged that these procedures should either be followed or changed. There was general agreement of this from the Senate and the resolution was passed. Following this were matters not scheduled on the agenda. The Senate was reminded of Union's policy regarding religious holidays, which states that no student can be penalized for missing work due to his observance of a religious holiday. Andy Mitchell of the EPC then presented a complaint to the Senate concerning the poor physical conditions of several of the college's classrooms. He was · directed by Provost Huntley to speak to the trustees when they visit on April 20th and 21st. The meeting was then adjourned. Greek System Organizes by DAN BOOTH Article I, Preamble In order that the fraternities- sororities of Union College may be able to assist more ef- fectively in promoting tbe welfare of the College and become more responsible as integral parts of the college community, the fraternities- sororities of Union College hereby ordain and establish this fitidt·.'''''a,,,.,.,,,suttabte:.'''l Constitution and Uniform By- Laws of the Interfraternity organization. This is the Preamble to the 'P!JSet'bli.tt\~Ol!lti~'''baV:tkifelae<J:t;edk'-'1 Constitution and By-Laws of the weekl::Jd' '\\Wbiatc\'f'•til!el• Council of Union ta(!0'··an<l•',&f''\'\'tb~r''00lb~ge•··,·l!(~tmnwnlt!7Y''\1ChE!re College, whose adoption is soon :<1.~~.b~1:f'~~~mrif'MWhlich\st1ll'de:ntsr:.,, .• ,·wa:s·•'''~lbsolu,oo1JP'''': 111 ow:,rea.'SOtl,.,,,,t~Ek\l to be voted on by the IFC. For alSilJlibl~''!d)l(!'ttr~~imFut)'fOP ir.r-·· .... ,1agr·ee·•t&heJ~· ':ri~Si~jilatiotl~'ftiheJre··,···:l those who recognize the IFC only as that body which an- nually sponsors the IFC Winter Ball, it is a council which represents the entire fraternity- sorority system on campus, approximately 33 percent of the l ~;~~~~~~~e:::t~:::~:~:::·:''.\ student body. Yet its purpose is unknown. It is obvious that a council which represents such a large percentage of students should be more active in the activities and promotion of activities on campus. This constitution clearly states this purpose, where there hitherto was none. Most of the constitution deals with superficialities, such as when the IFC shall meet and attendance problems, but the BywLaws deal with some of the most important issues on Union College campus. The Conduct Committee, comprised of the Assistant Dean of Students, the President of IFC, the Vice- President of the IFC, and three other council members, is the most important of the comw mittees. Its purpose is to \discipline its members and to recommend discipline to the appropriate body for fraterw nities-sororities that violate these rules.\ This will clear up any problems between the fraternities, or between the fraternities and the ad- ministration, particularly problems dealing with violations of student rights, as in the recent case involving Kappa Alpha; they allegedly violated student rights by playing loud music despite requests to lower the volume. Another of the By-Laws which could become important in the future is the last By-Law, which makes provision for new fraternities to be admitted to the IFC, provided that they are recognized by the college. This could become important as there is a new fraternity starting here on campus, Kappa Sigma. Of special interest to the incoming freshmen is the Rushing Corrunittee, which will insure that the procedure for rushing will be fair in regard to specific times for rushing (not during finals week), and any ':>ther areas deemed essential to an effective system. Though this constitution is itill being debated by the IFC, it .s certain that some form of a ~onstitution will be accepted. fhe constitution is in itself a good concept, for it gives justification to the existence of the IFC, but, like all con- 3titutions, it cannot survive without the support of the in- dependent fraternities-soror- ities on campus. Hopefully the fraternities-sororities will support the constitution for the promotion of the welfare of Union College.

Page 4 OONOORDlENSlS, April 12, 19\(9 The Educational Policy Committee in sess·ion. EPC Meets by STEVE GRILL The Education.al Policy Committee held Us first · meeting of Spring term on Monday, Apri19. The first order _ of business was the. ap- pointment of members to the subcommittee on Honors and other Multidisciplinary programs. This subconuuittee is charged with . considering implementation of the Honors program and reviewing and making recommendations for such mult i-d tsci'plinary programs. The· programs whi-ch the subcommittee will look into are · Environmental studi~s. Health Related S'cience Studies Management Studies, Urba~ Studi~s, American Studies, Comparative Communist Studies, Comp-arative Literature, Industrial Economics, Latin American Studies, Law and Public Policy, and Medical Education. Professor Schneller. is chairing the subcolllillittee; 3 an Tydings and Professor Milillo will also serve on it. In addition, Dean Brownlee will serve exofficio. College Reacts To Asbestos ScOre Professor Schneller per· ceived the subcommittee as one which would give a . set of recommendations about the future and direction of the above programs to EPC. Pr-ofessor Wilson expressed concern over the large amount of work and responsibility the subcommittee would have. However, it was added that some of the areas have already been . investigated and data necessary for the study does exist. Schneller added that the subcommittee would serve as a way to bring some ofthe issues In the 'Feb. 22, 1979 issue of Concordiensis, an article and an editorial appeared which at- tempted to alert. the campus conrrntmityto the existence of a potential hazard on campus. The presence of asbestos fiber, a known carcinogenic, in the ceiling materials of several dol'IIlltories, was addressed as a problem towards which, the editors felt, \the College has an obligation (one which we believe they are aware of), to act quickly.\ The College issued the following report entitled · \Situation As To Asbestos Material in Certain ColleJ!:e Facilities.\ Union College is committed to maintaining the ·campus and physical plant in a state ol good repair: clean, healthy and safe for all members of the College community which includes the stud'ents, faculty, staff and visitors. Certain College dormitories were constructed of products containing asbestos material. Fox,. Davidson, . Hickok, Raymond_ and Potter dor- mitories each were constructed with ceiling materials con- taining asbestos fiber. In 1975, when medical and scientific studies began to in- dicate asbestos may l}ave a connection with asbestosis and, possibly cancer, the College conducted tests in Fox and, Davidson do-rmitori-es to determine the amounts -of asbestos fibers in the air within these facilities. These tests involve collection of ail: samples within the facilities by the use of special filtration-type units and .. then· analysis of substances collected .in the air sampling units. Test samples were analyzed in accordance with the National Institute of Occupational:Safety and Health Forum Talks Money by STEVE GRILL On Thursday, March 8, the Student Forum held its last meeting of Winter Term. The three major issues discussed were: increasing the size of the Tax Committee, possible transference of control of the Nott and supplies in it from Mountebanks to the Arts Depa1·tment and, the Preliminary Draft of the Goverance Report. The following proposal was moved: Toamend the By-Laws to increase the size of the student Tax Committee to seven people (thus five will be ap- pointed each year.) Recently the Student Forwn has set up an ad hoc Finance Committee which is responsible for reviewing the present allocation. process and deter- mining whether changes should be made in the method of allocation. Possible changes in the structure of the Tax Com- mittee may be proposed. Alan Rutkin (then the chairman of the Tax Com- mittee) suggested that the proposalcalled for changes that the Finance Conunittee should be considering and that any changes should wait until they were proposed by them. Murray Levinson pointed out that because it was time for Tax Committee appointments, it was an opportune time to make the change. The increase in membership could allow . for certain members of the Tax Committee handling certain types of budgets ( eg., sports, arts, service, etc.), and might also help in the auditing process, it was stated. The proposal wa~ passed. The next item that was in title, everything the Moun- tebanks has control of, to the Arts Department, he stated. He thought that it was important that Mountebanks to given assurance that the Nott would ·be available to them, unless it was being used by the Arts Department. In the future no capital goods will be bought by the Moun- tebanks, and things that are made by them would be given, in title, to Arts to store, or be stored elsewhere by Moun- tebanks, Wisoff indicated. He felt that relationships between Mountebanks and the Arts would be inproved because they would be separate entities. Mountebanks weuld no longer have to spend $5000 for upkeep as the Arts would finance the Nott. The budget of Moun- tebanks would include scripts, royalties, and payment of the · directors. There would be plays in the Director's Lab Theater, located in Carnegie, as well as in the Nott. Wisoff .indicated that the plays would be of the same quality although the sets may not be as extravagent as they have been; the program has become too technically oriented and students have lost control of it. The changes would not mean fewer people involved in the producti~Yns. The following prQposal (which is slightly different from the original) was moved: 4) All pr,ops presently stored . in Room 312 of the Arts Bldg; 5) All costumes presently stored in the attic of the Arts Building; 6) All Mountebanks lumber presently being stored in the Douglas Road Barn. Such an agreement is to be presented to, the Dean of Faculty and the Student Forum - for their approval no later than the fourth·week of Spring Tenn. If the Dean of Faculty or a majority of the Student Forum or a majority of the Moun- tebanks Voting Membership disapproves of such an agreement worked out by the aforementioned group, the group shan be recharged for a second four week period to present a revised agreement subject to review by the same groups. This was the only proposal passed in tlle Forum. (NlOSH) methods and procedures by Environment One_, Schenectady, New York, a recognized testing laboratory. These re.ports indicated asbestos fiber content in the samples of only appro~imately 1 percent of the allowable concentration established by the ·Occupational Safety and Health Administration (OSHA). • In 1978, similar tests were conducted in Fox dormitory, and the,. results ~gain showed the asbestos fiber' content in the air of only approximately 1 percent of the OSHA allowable concE:ntrations. Therefore, both the 1975 and 1978 tests showed asbestos fibers present in the air at only approximately 1 percent of the OSHA allowable concentration level. We are aware that the validity of ttte OSHA standard has been challenged and that further medical and scientific tests suggest greater dangers may result from asbestos ex- posure than ea~lier testing suggested. No consensus ·or agreement among the scientists or medical community is ap- · parent on this question at this time. . The College recognizes its responsibility to continue to monitor the air within these dormitories and will also in- vestigate methods by which the exposure can possibly be fur- ther reduced. Regular, periodic testing of the . air will be con- ducted in each of these five facilities· to measure the-level of asbestos fibers present and to identify any significant changes which may occur_ \to the floor\. The next issue discussed was brought upbyJan Tydings. He questioned the policy whereby students who nave already completed the required number of courses for graduation and elect to take less than three courses their last term, are charged a full term's ,tuition. AssoCiate Dean of Faculty Nelson stated that there may not be a simple solution and changing the policy may in some way result · in bad education. EPC decided that this issue should be considered further and that their standing suqcommittee on Academic regulations, cha,ired by Michael Arato, would . look , into the matter. Next, Chairman of EPC Warde indicated that he had received respanses from Dr. Davenport and Dr. Neuman, both Trustees. Warde's letter, which was sent at the request of EPC, was concerned with the poor conditions of the Humanities building and the Social ~ciences buildings. The response from these Trustees, who are members of the Academic Affair Committee, was that the matter would be looked into. The subcommittee on Continued on page 7 'handled was a proposal sub- mitted by Andrew Wisoff. He fielded questions from Forum Jllembers. 'The answers are swmnarized: · To give the Chairperson of the Tax Committee the respon- sibility of representing the Student Forum on an ad hoc committee composed of two representatives of the Moun- Iii tebanks, two representatives of .~ the Arts Department, and Joe j Zolner. This ad hoc committee u is charged with working out the i terms of an agreement con- ~ cerning the possible sale, ·trade, i or turnover from the Moun• If tebanks to the Arts Dept. of the Jan~tte Poo•e;-\new CiUitrex operator. Wisoff stated that there will be a meeting on March 9 (this has already taken place) at which time control of the Nott Memorial will be given to the Arts Department. Arts would have control of the building and Mountebanks would have control of everything in it. A possibie way to solve existing problems is to transfer, at least . .. following items: . 1) All tools, machines, and eqUipment presently situated in the Nott Memorial Theater; 2) All consumable supplies presently situated in the Nott Memorial Theater; · 3). All .props presently stored in the Moimteb~nks Storage room located in the north basement of Fox: by PETER PERRIN +'May l help you?\ A new voice is brightening the operations at Union College's switchboard this term. It belongs to Janette Poole, a native of Schenectady who recently assumed her position as the Union College centrex operator. . . Formerly a schoolbus driver, thai things are gradually inl- Janette most recently worked proving. as a food service coordinator at Charleton Girls' School in Burnt Hills. At first Mrs. Poole found some callers impatient. According to Mrs. Poole,. once she explained that she was new callers · became very cooperative. However she notes Due fo the fact that she is new on campus, Mrs. Poole admits she has not gathered any .fgnnal impressions about the college. However she notes that she iS generally fasCinated by the job and . expects a fulfilfing career at Union. ·rerJ - b Edlto Conco series urst studer abroa1 first o One Union so rm away Ten studer of the of Set Stuc Union if it ~ else hi Unfor Amer. ticipa Abroa who 1 con tin .Depm Wash] Thi1 - stude1 pleas1 in Sc wor}tE parl c Prog1 r~pre: fro~ ever3 facili sibilit 'l'he wortl ticipa perie cong1 impol opera the survi• furni cockr much ThE expet from terns of le~ then anSWI inter casev tryin1 probJ tervE agenc tore: Off were work' some in th Usua interJ work de die recer ever~ Cap it feeL UniO! N b .Y wou Die cam1 It w Thet; Gam raisiJ Stick at 0 earl~ tinue $250• fifty An a to th Thet: total M[ at r who~ dowr insu saviJ

OONOQRDIENSIS, April lB .. 1919 Page 5 · Ter111 Abroad: D.C.. .I nferns by JASON SEIKEN Edltor's Note: Tilb term Concordiensis. will feature a series of articles expressing the first hand viewpoints of students attending various term abroad · programs, this is the first of .such articles. One . of the best things about Union CoHege is that it provides so many opportunities to get away from Union College. Term Abroad .programs allow students to escape the .confines of the campus and the doldrums of Schenectady. · Students who complain that Union would be an ideal school if it were located somewhere else have the opt_ion of attending Uni'on in Europe, South America or Israel by par- ticipating in one of the Term Abroad programs. For students who· prefer to remain on t!his continent, the Political Science .Department offers a Term in Washington, D.C. This past winter term-, . 20 · students opted to sacr:if~~ the pleasures of spen,ding a· wiriter in Schenectady and instead wor}ted in the najion's capitalas part of the Term in Washington Program. The experience r~presented a radical departure frOIQ' typical college life, in everything from lodging facilities to work respon- sibilities. 'l'he program proved to be a worthwhile experience. Par- ticipants gained valuable ex- perience by working in congressional offic-es, met important people, observed the operations of goveriin;lent from the inside, and learned to surtive in a dwelling that came furnished with phnty of cockroaches and m'ice but not mUch hot water. The specific responsibilities expected of each intern varied from office to office. Most in- tern~ performed the full gamut of legislative office tasks,'from the menial--Xeroxing, filing, answering. phones-to the more- interesting .act!._vities Hke casework. Casework involves trying · to solve constituents' problems, us:qally by 'in- tervening. with government agencies. Some interns helped to research and draft bills. Office hours for the interns were~ flexible. Most interns worked from 9 to 5, although some devoted souls often stayed in their offices until 6 or 7. Usually, though, the dedicated interns who r~mained late at work stayed because they were dedicated' to attending . the receptions that lobbyists· held every evening. Receptions on Capitol 'Hill made the interns feel as if they had never left Union. Night after night, it was party after party. Waiters kept the booze flowing ·-from half- gallon bottles of J·ack Daniels, canadian Club and other name brand liquors. Tables over- flowed with roast beef, cneese, br~ad, shrimp, egg rolls,. ~rab, chicken, and other tasty delicacies. Another attraction of these receptions was the prominent people who often. attended. During the term, various Union interns met Senators Ted Kennedy, Jacob Javits, Strom Thurmond and Secretary of the Interior Cecil AndrUs. Not even the '.Skeller can boast of having patrons as illustrious as those at a Capitol Hill reception. Without the free food and booze they consumed at. receptions, many interns might have returned from D.C. as slim as President Carter's re- election chances. Washington is such an expensive city that the weekly 65 dollar 'stipend the college provided to each intern could not be squandered on luxuries like food. With mixed drinks. costing $2.25 and a bottle of beer more than a dollar, only the sbrewdest eco majors managed to save enough money to buy food. · TI!e high cost of Uving in Washington qid oot prevent the interns .from .enjoying the city's night life, which is a bit more exciting than r the nocturnal activiti~s Schenectady offers. A few interns became regulars at the popular student hangouts in Georgetown, which is within walking distance of where the interns lived. Still mo.re members of the group frequented the nearby classy night spots such as Deja Vu and Abbey ,Road. · Of coUrse, the term wasn't all partying. Not all of ·the headaches the interns suffered resulted: from hangovers. Some were caused by having to keep a weekly journal,. _write a rese.afch pape·r, attend. a class ·every Friday--and Hartnett Hall. Hartnett Hall can be described as a quaint, com- . fortable townho).lse. That's what the building's owners would call - it. The interns called it a dilapidated shanty. The building features such modern architectural wonders as: a roof that leaks only when it is raining outside; a bathroom drainage system ... that drains water directly through the ceilings onto the lower levels; and ceilings that never collapse more than once every three months. Living in these squalid con- ditions contributed to a buildup of tensions !hat developed between some interns. The kitc,hen of Hartnett Hatt McBrides Aided • by NELLIE VAN DEB WOUDEN Did you hear music on campus an Friday February 23? It was on that evening that Theta Delta Chi and Delta Gamma sponsored a fund raising band party featuring Sticky Wickett. The band par~y at Old Chapel picked up life early in the evening and con- tinued until2:00 a.m. A total of $250 was collected by asking for fifty cent dopations at the door. An additiQnal $50 was donated to the fun~ by. the brothers of Theta Delta Chi, briilging the total fund to $300. · Mr.· McBridge is a mechanic at ma4ltenance . on campus, whose home unfortunately turnt down. Since his· home was not ihs:u.red and he had- little savings, financiallY thin£s were . . . difficlllt for him, his wife, and his eight cl)ildren living with him. Theta Delta Chi and Delta Gamma after hearing of their misfortune, decided.to send the proceeds of their dance to the ~McBrides. ~ ' 'Mike· Hall of TDC and Diane Tenaroli of DG, the social chairmen of their houses, organized' the event. Many posters were made and posted on campus, although most were tom down within hours. They also arranged to have the band, (Which, incidentally.t is com- posed of Alpha Delta Phi brot?ers) entertain for the evem.ne:. Both Houses would 1ike to thank everyone who par- ticipated and made it a success. The McBrides now have_ a new place to live and are .doing w~~~ Washington Interns gather on the steps of the capitol. \ . became the focal point of several misunderstandings. Hartnett's kitchen is the qnly room in the building that has been;-.refurbished during this century. The kitchen is so coz.y, in fact, that the herds of cockroaches and families of mice that inhabit the kitchen would never think of moving. Unfortunately, the kitchen has only o~e refrigerator. Friction developed when some students assumed that the food in the refrigerator ·was communal property. Food stealing be.came a coninlon occurreoce until Kurr Hamblet . greatly alleviated the problem by promising tp \personally rip off the face of anyone who steals food.\ . Besides learning the , finer points of the legi_;llative process, Washington bars and cockroach anatomy, the interns sup- posedly became authorities oil rnusewns, thanks to the course they attended every Friday- lntro to Museum Appreciation. . 'Jhe course consisted of visiting local mu~eums once a week with a professor from George Washington University who enligbte~ed the interns on various aspects of artifact's, displays· and exhibits. The interns' only other major responsibility involved at: tenfling Tuesday night sessions at the home of John Davis, a Union alwnnus. Mr. Davis a_nd ...... Professor Paul Johnson, who supervised the Washington group, arranged for several speakers to address the interns. The speakers included a State Department official, .a congressman, a former high- ranking official·in the CIA, and Eleanor Dulles,>:Sister of former Secretary of State John Foster Dulles. The interns also had an op- portunity- to meet with Justice Potter Stewart at the Supreme Court. After Justice. Stewart .spoke·•to the group, Professdl\' !3ill Daniels, who is currently a Judicial Fellow for Chief Justice Warren Burger, treated the interns to an extensive tour of the Supreme Court building. rhey Shoot Hor~es? by NATHAN KEEVER Beginning Friday, Apri120 at 8 PM and not letting up until 2 AM Sunday, April 22, possibly the biggest party to hit Union in years will happen in the Alumni Gym. It's a 28-hour Dance Marathon sponsored by Delta Chi for the benefit of the Muscular Dystrophy Association, the goal being to . raise $5,000 for this worthy charity. Heading up the entourage of entertainment are four live · bands, each playing at · no charge, to help out MDA. On Friday, beginning at 9:00 PM, \Shadowfaxx't will blow you away with their skill and tremendous sound system. And on Saturday, starting at 2:30 in the afternoon, \Hotde\ and \Crystal playing a wide range of rock and roll, will provide Marathoners and .spectators with music uritillO.: 00. Then, an unnamed professional rock band, familiar to local night club~, wi}l provide the best in rock 'til 2 AM (the Marathon itself ends at midnight, but the party goes on). . In addition to the bands, WWOM w:ill be doing a \live\ remote show from the MarathOn site between mid- night and 5 AM Saturday morning, and WRUC will be on . haQd throughout the Marathon to fill in the gaps with the muslc you 'r~nt to hear. . _ Durmg the entire party, Linema Disco Lighting, Inc., a professional disco Ughtj.ng company, will dizzle you With syn9hronized strobes, color Qrgans, multiple mirror ball&, and other special effects. For the further amusement of Marathoners and spectators alike, there'll be competitions in beer chugging, bubble gum blowing, and dancing, plus the juggling artistry of Adam Frey and ·slight-of-hand magic by Tim Wenk. And, of course, there will be plenty of beer for sale: · Miller, Spa ten, and others will be !!old at rock-bottom prices for all charitable drinkers ·on· campus. If you would like to becol'Jle a real part of this extravaganza, and raise money for MDA at the same time, you can be a Marathon dancer. All it takes is at least $25 per dancer ($50 per wtJPle) in donations;, that i~, each dancer must ' solicit a minimum of $25 from sponsors (friends, fraternity alumni; businesses, etc.) in order to enter. Prizes for winners, based on finishing the Marathon and bringing in the most con- tributions, will include trophies, a weekend trip to Montreal, and portable televisions. There's still plenty of time, so if you want to help out and dance for those who can't, call Delta Chi at 382-8973 and we'll send you more information. Or, if Marathon dancing is not for you, you can still support the fight against muscular • dystrophy· with your mere presence. Make Alumni Gym your place to party all weekend- -admission is only $1.00, with tickets on sale in advance and at ·the door. Door prizes, such as bottles of booze, records, and portable radios will be given away hollflY to lucky ticket holders. SO if you're an evening party-goer or just looking for something to do at odd hours of the day or night, come up to Alumni Gym .and join the fun·. All in all, this will be quite an ·event. All that is needed is the participation of the Union community-stUdents, faculty, staff and area residents-to bring it off. So please, support the fight against muscular dystrophy: be a Marathon dancer, or be a spectator, but just be there. HAMILTON'S FOOD MARKET OFFERS UNION STUDENTS CONVENIENT SHOPPING AT REASONABLE PRICES WE DELIVER 37 4-8448 Homemade sa lads, quality meats·, fresh produce, groceries, beer and soda Located at 841 Union St. (corner of Union and Gillespie) Open Mon.· Fri. 8:30to6 pm Sat. 8:30 to s pm

Page 6 CONOORDIENSlS; April·12, 19\19 I • arts· ulture Record Review: Have The B_e~ch Boys· GOne· DiS.co? by JIM DAVIS Well, well-what do we have here? Seems the Beach Boys have gone disco. While this morphosis is far from complete, it's nonetheless undeniable. Anyone who's heard their reworking of \Here Comes the Night'' a tune they first recorded more than ten years ago, can attest to that. (And lots of people have. The song has received considerable radio airplay and hit the charts in the middle of March.) The currently popular version runs more than ten~and-a-half minutes, compared to the original's two-and-a.:half. Some nice harmonies, in the classic Beach Boys style, are included in the disco rendition that were absent in the original. But most of the additional playtime is devoted to eerie electronic sounds and birdcalls, ~;~nd the entire piece is backed by a steady drumbeat-an essential to any self-respecting disco recording. · That the Beach Boys chose to record \Here Comes the Night\ in this ext.ended version is noteworthy in itself. Even · though they have an admittedly commercial bent (and, indeed, that is one of their attractions, since they're the musical representation of contemporary West Coast-American values, the group is still probably the last one you'd expect to get caught up in the disco wave.) So does this recording mE;an that the flashing strobe lights and amplified noises of discoland have made their way received m~ch attention, the disco trac~ is selling briskly in its own right, as a 12-inch single, retailing at abQut $3. The single is also the focal point of the Beach ~oys' new album, \L.A. (Light Albun,1). '' As the featured attraction. ''Here Comes the Night\ is sure to come in for considerable . close scrutiny fror:n loyalists and reviewers, who, like- me, are a bit confused by the proceedings. But the degree of this at- tention is very likely to become unduly large. After all, \Here Comes the Night\ is only one of ten cuts on the album. It's' a blatant attempt to cash in on popular tastes~ so it should be accepted as such,...and not much more. Of equal interest 1s the remainder of the album. The good news- is that it's lavishly orchestrated and produced. Even though \L.A.\ appeared only about five months after the \M.I.U. Album\ (a legitimate masterpiece that never received a ~raction of the recognition it deserved foi\ this reviewer's money) there's no evidence of bare vocal tracks or to the beach, heretofore the :E stomping ground of clean and .g' free rock and roll? . :s: Maybe. The extent of thi& ~ encroachment will ultimately ~>­ be determined by public tastes. ~ And early returns 'aren'l or pror:nising. ~ While the 1967 recording of \Here Comes the Night\ never ' Roses When I was eight, you left; You dropped me like a withered rose And turned away. Come twelve, you up and died; We laid a rose against your cheek. It dre.w no blood. At seventeen, I blU'ied you; I threw dirt over your memory, And planted Roses. - CoiDJDon Sorrow Still upon the tomb, The pulse of the preacher's voice; HERoots The monotone song and the beating rain Are as one. All eyes are down; Flowers dissolve in the clouds As rain and salt water Mingle ·on dark faces, Each solitary. There is no brothersbip h~re; Common sorrow is all too separating. HERoots Please submit all poems for Fine Lines to Jan De Deka, Fine LineS' Editor, Box 1380. (Submissions may be anonymous.) other indications of a rushed job. Unfortunately, what is lacking is any sepse of' real enthusiasm~ AU of the' tunes are remarkably restrained .. Which really .is no more than to be expected. from a band whose members range in age . from their early to late 30s. It's just not reasonable to expect them to exude the same kind of wind-in-the-hair-'toes-in-the- sand kind of attitude that marked their classic recor• dings, now some 15· years oid. tan simply by listening to iL on :that count, \I A.\ is·-'a b,ig disappointment, especially considering its title (We find, . though, upon reading the inner sleeve, that ''Light Album refers to the awareness .of, and the presence of God, here in this world as an ongoing, loving reality.\) · · Pretty heavy stuff. Especially when most p~ople were ex- pecting to do no more than catch a wave and-shoot the curl. Fact-is, though, that some of thes.e tunes aren't bad at all. . ..Particularly worthy of mentic;m are ''Goin South\ and 1 'Lady Lynda.'' Another cut, \Good Tirnin', •·• whH~ .not .out-of- control, is also enjoyable-- alt?eit; In a more dignified sense than, say \Surfin' u.s.A.'' The album's cover art alone merits atrlp totherec<nd store, if not a purchase. Eac}l of the songs is depicted in a postcard;. like.painting. Theone for \Goin South'' is · especially memorable. · ~ · As for the album itself., more than anytbing else, it serves as . anattestment that we:re all not as young as we used to be. . Considering \Here Comes the N1ght\ it ~ould be best to recall :the lYrics to a Chuck Berry standard recreated by the ·neacbBoys With top ten success in the .summer of 1976: \Just let me hear some of that rock and roll music.'' The problem is that's exactly the kmd of thing most people expect fror:n the Beach Boys. In concert, especi.ally, they're little more than a golden oldies jukebox. Not that there's anything wrong with that-if it's what the.. public wants .. Even. after all these years, the Beach · Boys still can perf()rril their· sum- mertime tunes ,in a manner that makes you want to break out the shades and suntan oil even. on Cadets Join Women's Glee the coldest days. · · But when the ,group releases a new album, purcha~ers still expect to be able to. get a good West Point Cade4s at Union April 8. . The Union College Women's Glee Club, under the direction of Professor Hugh Allen Wilson, perform~d with the West Point Cadet Choir this previous Sundav. April 8 . ...In a filled Steinmetz l.s Here by PAUL FEINSOT which the students thoughtfully scrutinize. can Memorial Chapel .. the combined groups.sang five choruses from Handel's oratorio: The Messiah including the well-known \Hallelujah Chorus\ and the· final chorus ''Worthy is the Lamb that was Slain\. The choruses ·performed were froq1 sections two and three of ''The Messiah and are traditionally sung during the Easter season. The oratorio, which chronicles the~ birth, death and ·resurrection of Ghrist, also contains'a first section with' the frequently sung \For lUlto us a Child is Born,., whiCh is traditionally performed during the Christr:nas season. Each group also performed solo selections with the West Point Choir ·leading off w:ith \Psalm III\ by T. Charles Lee, ''Show Me Thy Ways\ by Walter Pelz and 0 Come l.et Us Sing Unto The Lord\ by Elllllia Lou Diemer. The Choir sings weekly at chapel services under the direction of Dr. John A. Davis, Jr. Continuing with the solo ce1ections, ~th-e Women~s Glee Club performed \Helas M' Amour\ a 14th century chanson by Jacques Clement, · \In stiller ;Nacht\ by Joliannes One student related that \it's Brahms, \As Fair As Morn\; a like a term abroad at Union.'' The reading list consists of madrigal from the Elizabethan Another believed it to be \the such works. as Shakespeare's age 'by John Wilbye, \El Grillo\ most intense experience 'l'he Tempest, Dantejs Inferno, by Josquin- des -Pres, \] .Goe available to anyone\ at the Swift's Gulliver's Travels, Before My Darling'' by Thomas college. These statements of~ . while examining the ar-tistic Morley and finally \A Girls acclaim were made in works ~ of .· MichelangeJo, Garden\ composed by Randall ref_er~nce to English 188, which Hogarth, and: Picasso. The Thompson from the poetry of is · better kno:wn to - English · course will primarily explore Robert Frost. majors and other humanities the artist's creative The Wom~n's Glee Club has . ...- people as the Steinmetz Honors imagination in relation to the .performed .with the West Point Seminar. The course was· social, historical, and person~l Cadet Choir for the past two designed by the . English ·influences. Students will als'o years dur..ing hcapel.services for department ID _support of the explore \side-by .. side works of the West Point community. since-effaced plan· for a art and literature from classical PrevioUs engagements of the Steinmetz Honors College. As a Greece, Renaissance Florence, Glee Club include a concert for rate QJWOrtunity for a. small 18th century Engl~nd, and '20th the freshqlaiMiuring, orientation num:ber of students to develop centur.'y Europe, stressing the and a \Pops\ concert with the their own ideas and manner of. major differences, rather than Men's Glee Club for · thinking, the seminar embodies merely the similarities, bet- Homecoming Weekend. the . concept of a small_ ween them. · The Women~s -Glee Club will education. Tile semhiar is a very special be performing on campus hear Assistant Professor Jim cotirse, but it ia no way limited the end of April for 'Wom~n's McCord 4eveloped the course in to EngliSh majors, or ,honor~ Week. Also upcoming on a busy his first year at Union, and he students . .Professor McCot.d schedule are . a· concert at ', has Secured the I.F;.F. funding . encourages people ·.who rate · .. Worch:estor l>olytechn:ical for the last two years_ so that the \energetic inquisitive, aiid Institute on the weekend of May students could visit museums in especially interested ·in in- 19th and a conctJrt on the Williamstowni Boston, and New dependent ·thought, analysis, Sunday of · ·Par~nts Weekend York City. English department and research, as well as critical with the Men;s Glee Club. chairman Ruth Stevenson discussion.\ He came out of his ·The Women's Glee Club is praises McCord for the time and second clas$- this term com· looking tor members! If you are relentless effort be has devoted menting that it was . a -- interested, come to one of our ' to the-course, ·and to attaining· ''grueling\ session in whieh the rehersals on 1.Uesday and the grants. McCord has spent students were- engaged m, and ·nursday at ~4:30 P.M. in the much of his y,-acatiort time - enjoying a·''~heate'd\ discussion Memorial Chapel or contact one visiting the specific xnuseums, for -most ox the period. This of our board members for and setting up a particular plan - \wild and crazy'' bunch Will further information. Pat for his field trips. He has also have the unique opportunity to Spencer--P·resldent, Gem taken special care to develop a explore their own thinking this Mitchell-~1'reasurer, Debbe syllabus,. containing- Several term th~ough short papers oral .Damrell--Concer..t · Manager, great works of art, ar· .presentations, · .and in· and Rhoda Kupferberg•- chitecture, and literature, terpersonal conimunication. Publicity Manager • . ·---·-~- \'\ .. ·-· - . .. ---.~ . . . .. - .. . ~ \· cut· KIE Jewish came to evening in~ as~akerr the Nazi I War II. Tl Klein, gave this dark perspective Those wh Klein were unique qua tation. All brought clo: moving m perience .of. living in-th~ The unique was. the t human as1 survive the and .non-Je' As a sync story, the sheds som' sonal night Gerda~ R Bielitz Pole: with her brother att armiesocc1 Sheandher to condmtr In midW] Nazi empi.J before thE forces, the ' byPEC Wouldyc aT-shirt f~ station? IJ mean f.a1 $25.00! Th WRUC is design in Design Co1 the contest for WRU{ students t radio stati< on a new native st; campus regard to will be p WRUG p1 music th4 hear. Thi~ Mil Mr. S1 sophomor4 presently- Christy's ( dir. \>~ narriJwly when a J swerved t the .corn« Seward I Mr. Kil~ DavidsotJ Bak Robert professor4 contributo of Bioethl~ edited by theKen'rie Georget:c published The enc: basic 1 problems as religio1 ethics, an Baker co11 one on \(

OONOORD.IENSIS, April12, 1979 Page 7 arts. Kl,in-Wind,s UpJ8~ish Awareness Week Jewish Awareness Week came to a dose Tuesday evening. in Strauss Lounge with a speaker reliving the horror of the Nazi Holocaust of World War II. The speaker, ·Gerda Klein, gave her impressions on this dark period from. the · perspective of a .survivor. Those who came to hear Ms~ Klein were awestruck at the unique qUaljty of--the presen-. tation. All in attendance w~re . brought closer .jn a .pecscmal and moving manner, to the ex- perience of. a persori college age living in-the Nazi Death Camp. The unique aspectof this speech was. the highll.ghting of the human aspect struggling to survive the living hell both Jews and .non-Jews had to endure. As a synopsis of Mrs. Klein~s storY, the following biography sheds some light on her per- sonal niR:htmare. of her camp in Silesia were driven one thousand rnHes e a s. t w-a r d t o w a r d Czechoslovakia .by the Gestapo. When the march came to a halt in a smal!_ village in that country, there w:ere less than 200 survivors. When she- was, liberated, every frind.and every Gerda~ Klein was born in Bielitz Poland where she lived with her ·parents and ber brother at the tiine the German ~ armies occupied Poland in 1939. ~ She and her family were all sent ~ to concentration camps. member of her family ha~ died in .the concentration camps. Her .book All But ~Y LHe had been·hailedby critics in the U.S. and England as ''one of the most moving. and beautifully writt~n books of Jewish suf- fering and survival.\ Mrs. Klein . has since written The Blue Rose which is a children's book. Mrs. Klein in addition to being an· author has been in- volved in the founding of the Blue Rose Foundation which hoped to provide a facility in western New York for mentally .retarded young adults to farm, care for animals, and operate a pet shop. Mrs. J{lein has also been an active member of the American Jewish ·community traveling through the country for UJA, BondS for Israel and Hadassah. Mrs. Klein lives in a suburb of Buffalo with her husband. They have three children. Men's Glee Club To ·H,arvard The Men's Glee Club will participate in the \Third Annual Harvard Festival of Men's Chortl$es~· this weekend at Harvard University· in Cambridge, Massachusetts. The, Harvard Festival of Men's Choruses was established iri 1976 to bring together glee clubs. of the highest professional . caliber to perform their specialties in contemporary' Renaissance_ and traditional men's music. For the third year of the ,Festival, the Harvard Glee Club will host the Union College Glee Club and the Illinois Varsity Men's Glee Club for a series of three concerts. Sanders Theater. Then, on Saturday, April 14, the Ulmois and Harvard Glee Clubs will present sacred polyphony of the Renaissance by Genet, Des Prez, Handl, Brumel, Agricola and Ockeghem as well as motets of Morley, Dawlinde, and Weelkes in 'the Harvard- Epworth Church at the Harvard Law School. The Festival concludes Sunday, April 15, with a variety of sacred, conr- temporary and traditional works performed by the ffiinois and Union College Glee Clubs, again in Sanders Theater. In midwinter of 1945, as the o Nazi empire began to crumble ~ before the advancing Allied for.ces, the 4,000 women inmates Gerda iK1ein SpegkS on Holocaust. Last year, the Harvard Glee Club hosted the Union College and the University of Virginia Glee Clubs, Union's second consecutive invitation to - the Festival represents a single honor and serves to indicate the group's fine status among comparable schools. On Saturday, April 28, the Union Glee Club • will be featured in \Massed Concert '79, an aggregate p~rforrmtnce -of the Mohawk~Hu~on Male Chorus Association sponsered by the Mendelsohn Club of Albany, at 8 p.m. in the Main Theater of the Convention Center (\the EGG\) of the Empire State Plaza. General admission is $3. WRUC Needs A T-Shirt by PEGGY O'ROURKE Would you be willing to design a T -shirt for your coll_ege radio station? If you are, it cuuld mean fame., prestige, and $25.00! That is ex~ctly what WRUC is offering for the best design in the WRUC T-shirt Design Contest. The two aims of the contest are to develop a logo for WRUC, and to encourage students. to participate in the radio static:m. WRUC is w.orking on a new image as an alter- native station to which the campus can gr:avitate. In regard to this irn~ge students will be participating to help WRUC present the . different music the campus wants to hear. This contest is to center · upon the participation of students in the creation of a design for the station. Anyone can,· and is en- couraged to enter the contest and anyone can win. lf y.ou feel you aren't tqlented enough; but you have a great idea - try anyway. Olj have a friend do the art work for you and enter the contest as a team. WRUC-will consider every design it receives. Rules 'for entering the WRUC T-shirt def!ign · contest are simply this: Take 1.1 design, with your· name, address, and phone number on it and drop it in the box labelled \WRUC T-shirt contest~ ·On W ~d. April 25 in Miller's Madne_ss Mr. Steven Kilgore, a sophomore at Union College presently- appearing in Ag~tha Christy's Ten Little Indians ( dir. by Sharon Rubin) nartbwly escaped dea~ll t<>day · when a 1974 Cadillac Seville swerved to avoid a squirrel at the .corner of Nott St. and Seward Place, crashing intQ Mr. Kilgore's suite at 253 Davidson. Steve, who was ... fortunately showering at tile time of the accident, knew something was wrong when ''he went back to his room and found an engine block imbedded in his Cheryl Tiegs poster .. '' The driver, Mr. James Marston .of Cambridge, England, escaped with minor injuries. He will. be arraigned this Thursday on the charge of reckless en- dangern1ent at the Schenectady Cpunty Courthouse on Jay St. Baker And Bioethics Robert Bak:er, assistant professor of philosophy here is a contributor to. the Encyclopedia of Bioetblcs, a four-volume set edited by Warren T. Reich, of the Kennedy Institute of Etbics, Geor.getown University, published by The F·ree Press. Tl}e encyclopedia deals with baste bioetbical issues, problems and theories, as, well as religious traditions, .medical ethics, and. related discipllnes. · Baker contrib~ted . .two articles- one on \Conceptions•.of ·Mental \ . mness\ -and ·another on \Violence and Therapy:. \;• :· . Baker h~s written extensively on bioeihical is$ties. For ex~mple, an . essay on \Et~genfus and' :Hillllan. Rights\ appeal,'$ as a' chapter,ofthe book Bioethtcs and HUlnall Rigllts: A Reader for Health Professionals,- published by Little, Brown and Co.mpany. Another recent article, \Protecting. the Unconce~ved,\ app·ears in C~tntelllporary · Issues In Biomedical Ethics. Student Activities. If you wish yoq can enter any number of designs. Rules concerning the design itself are as follows: '1. The design has to concern the radio station. On Friday, April 13, the Union and Harvard College Glee Clubs will perform a concert entirely of contemporary music · featuring works of Poulenc Milhaud, Britten, • Thompson: Lobos and Vaughan Williams in On SWlday, May 6, the Union ·college Men's and Women's Glee Clubs will perform a Parents' Weekend coftcert in the Memorial Chapel at 1:30 p.m. The pubUc is invited. 2. The call letters, WRUC, must be included in the design. 3. 90.9 and Union College Radio are optional items to be used in the design. · Dance Club 4. No more than three dif- ferent colQrs should be used. 5. Keep the design simple; keep in mind its suitabilit~ for a T-shirt. As far as the judging is concerned, each design will be judged on it's artis~ic quality, originality of idea, and suitability for printing. The winner of the contest will be announced over the radio at 5:00 on Thurs., April 26. He or sbe will also be notified of his The Union College Dance C~ub and Ms. Darlene Myers, director of Classic & Con- temporary Arts, will be con- ducti,ng three courses at Union· College fo·r the spring term. They will be: Beginning Classical Ballet (for people who have no previous training) at 12:3~ on Wednesdays, Iil1er- mediate Classical Ballet (for some people who have had some dance esperience in the art) at 3:00 ... ·on Fridays, and a EPC Meets ... ChoreographiC Workshop (for people who would like to expand their knowledge of choreography through class explorations) on Fridays at 4:30. The choreographic session will be aimed at an \In Studio\ performance of the students works. Courses are offered for practicum !!redit in Arts 202. For information contact the ~ Dance Club, at 370-6755, or jnquire_ at the Arts department. · win b~ telephone where he will be promptly told when to pick . up his $25.00 cash prize. But Continued from page f .remember, money -is not the Acad~mic Advising, a . sub- and part-time faculty, the need only reward because the win. comnuttee of EPC, then sought for increased advisee data and ning design will be printed up as the views of .EPC ol!: ~he issues methods of guaranteeing ad- T-shirts and sold on campus by_ of Academic adv:umg. The visee-advisor interaction. WRUC.So, if you wouldn't tnmd subcommittee plans to-bring a a little fame and fortune, enter series of proposals before EPC a design in the WRUC T-shirt for approva·l at the next design contest. Your college meeting. Included among the radio station, WRUC, asks your discussed issues were making belp and participation in advising a mandatory process; creating the WRUC T -shirt. ~ the role of first-year. visiting, Before adjourning, Professor Wilson stated that he felt that there was abuse of the policy prohibiting testing during the tenth week. There was a short discussion of the point.

Jl Page 8 CONOQRDIEN81S, April 12, 1.·9'19 -----Around Campus~. --- He·alth Tal.ks On ·wednesday, April 18; . James Arvesen, visiting asso~ate professor at New Yor}{ University, will talk about ''The Role of· Statistics in Bacterial lnfe'Ctions.: Iden· · tification and Treatment\ at 4 p.m. in Room 115, Social Sciences building. _ Students. enjoyed Israeli Fair on Saturday, April?, 1979. He will explain statistical procedures ·and tests f~r t~e identification of bactei.'Lai m· fections, and will emphasize applications useful in. hospital Auction A new event has been added to Parent's Weekend this year: A Public Fund Raising Auction to be held on Sunday, May 6, at - 2:00 p.m. at Achilles Rink!! This project is being organized and sponsored by the Delta Gamma Sorority with . a percentage of the proceeds being donated to the Sight Conservation and Aid' to the Blind Foundation. - an organization nationally sup- ported by Delta Gamma. Delta Gamma is pr~sently looking for donations of mer .. chandise to sell at the auction or they will sell any merchandise of value on consignment. This is a great ~iine,_ for all the faculty · and students to sell any un- wanted or un-needed furniture, household goods or · miscellaneous items that might _ show up after spring. cleaning! So plan to attend ... who knows what you might find to furnish your rooms for next year! ··~ Do you have anything that you ~ould like to get rid of? Call'· Mona 370-6519. Our success depends on YOur help! ! ·Research Tool An earlier version of the same machine ' Would have· filled a small room. But the table-top size of the Union College chemistry department's new gas chromatograph-mass spectrometer belies its im· pressive usefulness in organic chemistry, and department faculty are clearly delighte'd to . have it. The new instrulilent, installed recently, quantitatively and qualitatively analyzes volatile substances (even those very slightly volatile), working with a sample -as small as 1- l,OOO,OOO;OOOth gram. \For analysis of extremely small amounts, it's the best in- struments in the world,\ says Leslie Hull, associate professor of chemistry and deRartment chairman. The instrument cost ap- proximately $55,000 and its' purchase was made possible by a gift from Schenectady Chemicals Company. About $12,500 in college funds was matched by a grant obtained by chemistry Prof. Bill Martin from the National Science Foundation, · and the Schenectady Chemicals Company agreed to make up the difference. :•we are extremely grateful to the Schenectady Chemicals Company for its generosity,\ Hull said. \Both faculty and students will benefit substantially by having this instrument availablefor course work and research.\ \\' When a Stlbstance is to be tested, the first analysis is made by the gas chromatograph, which offers information about the number of different compounds-and the percentage of eaCh'-present in a given sample. The_ mass spectrometer then identifies compounds according to molecular weight and fragmentation patterns, \which serve as a kind of fingerprint which can be checked against a · library of known information,\ said ltobert Scha~fer, associate professor of chemistry. The gas . chmomatograph-mass spect- rometer is accompanied ~Y a computer which can be used to program instructions· to the instrument and to search a library for possible matches. . studies. The talk is sponsored , .by Union College's Institute of Administration and Management (l.A.M.') and Health Studies Center. The instrument is most valuable for <>rganic chemistry, and the most intensive use by students will come from those taking courses ip in- strumentation and advanced · organic chemistry, as well as those engaged in senior research involving graphic \ prepar~tions. Visiting Prof_. Prof. P.J. Vatikiotis, con- sidered an eminent authority on Middle East politics, will serve as visiting professor of history and politics here this spring. Vatikiotis will teach two courses, ''Modern History of the Middle East\ . and \Con- temporary Politics of the Middle East.\ In addition, a series of public lectures is tentatively planned, and details will be announced later. Since 1965, Vatikiotis has been Professor of Politics with reference to the Near and Middle East at the Unive~:sity of London. He has been visiting professor and lecturer at a number of universities and · institutions, including The Johns Hopkins University,· · American University in Cairo, University of Michigan, University. of California, Harvard, Stanford, Penn- . sylvania and Toronto. In 1973-74 he was distinguished visiting professor and visiting senior . fellow of the Council on· the Humanities, Princeton ' University. · Last year-he was academic director of the Center for Mediterranean and Middle Eastern Studies in Athens, Greece. He has won a number of fellowships, including a Guggenheim Fellowship in 1961- 62. His books include Nar:;ser\' and his Generation, a Political Portrait, The Arabs in 1he Modern World, Gr~ece, a poiitlcal essay, The Egyptian Army in PolUics and ';('he Fadmid Theory of the State. In addition, hiS' articles and essays have been widely rrublished in journals and anthologies. At 4 p.m., Thursday, Aptil19, Edgar Borgenhamma·r, professor ~of public health at Nordiska Halsovardshogsk,olan, _. Goteborg, Sweden, will ·talk about ''Cost Containment in the Swedish National Health Ser- vices: 20 Case .Studies.\ He will . lecture in Room 201, Bailey Hall. Alumn·i, Council Each year the graduating class elects two representatives to the Alumni Council. These people, throug~h committee work and periodic Council meetings, provide an important input to the college decision making process. Obviously. the weight. of this input is dependent on the amount and type of work done by the representatives. During the last four years, Council committees have IJ'een in'volved.in the improvement of dormitory conditions, proposals · for new athletic facilities, and various aspects 'of student life; the .council as a whole bas provided financial support to projects such as the major tree replanting project on campus and campus lighting. These functions, plus the many forman ald informal contacts that the represen- tatives become involved with, requite the services of willing and concerned ind·ividuals. Subsequent elections for the pOsition take place at every fifth -year reunion, so consistent effort is another must. The Alumni Council is an important and effective part of Union College only when class representatives and their constituents take an activ.e part in its operation. Nominating petitions for 1979 Alumni Council Represen- tatives are available in the Alumni Office, and must be endorsed by 'at least 25 classmates. Nominations will,· he accepted through April 18th. Please return them to the Alumni Office in Lamont House. Ballots will be distributed on April 19th and must be cast by . April 27th. The ballot bo~ will.be· ·located in the Alutnm Off1ce during this period. P.otte'r Fell-ow A Union senior is attempting to design an insulating system efficient enough to · keep. a campus building from b)sing more than one d~gree farenheit on the coldest winter d~y-­ without any heat ~ing supplied by a furnac~ or other means. l'he student is Ralph J. Viola, a civil eng~neering major, Who has just be~n awarded the civil engineering department's Stephen J~ Potter Fellowship for 1979. ' The endowment for his felfowshtp come\s from the Stephen. J. Potter Foundation, which also provided the funds .for ~he building--Potter Memorial Laboratory.-on which Viola will work. Previous fellowship winners have con- ducted research on structures and on bituminous materials in the laboratory, but Viola will concentrate on tne laboratory itself. · Built in 1968 according to designs. by former .professor Robert Brungraber, the laboratory has heavily rein- forced concrete walls, roof and floor. ''1'he mass of the struc- ture, with its Solid, .tw~feet­ thick walls, was designed to withstand loads :of 50,000 pounds applied -..to hundreds of an- thorages on all the interior surfaces,\ Prof. H;G. Harlow, .department chairman., ex- plained. , The building has no insulation now, and: by itself concrete ts a poor insulating material, · Harlow ·said. Insulation is . measured in terms of a • material's \R value,\ and the R value for the two-.feet-thick .concrete walls is only 1% to 2. But wrappingthe building ina • ''cocoon\ · of insulation could · raise the R value to the 30s, Prof. Harlow said. ''With the changes we propose, we could' limit the use of electric heat to those off~peak periods when the . .. rates .to th~ College are cheaper,\ he said. Steady · application of heat to the buildiHg would be unnecessary. Furthermore, solar heating may become a practical possibility once. the insulating . system has been designt;Jd and installed;...an idea which has long interested Harlow and a. colleague, Associate PrJfessor · of Mechanical Engineering William Aubrey. · Viola will evaluate many methods of providing the necessary insulation, Prof. . Harlow said. It's expec~ed that the method determined to be the most effective will be used to lnsnlate Potter Laboratory this suminer, to make it available for solar heat experiments during the 1979-80 a~ademic year. a: cli111ate for . . \. accomplishnaent ••• summer '79 at· c.w. post For De·gree. Credit For Accelerated Learning For Caree·r ·Development For Personal Enrichment -.> -TH_R.,.._E_E_S,_U,....:M_M_E;;_R_S_E.....,S..,...SI...,.O~N-S-( O.....,A_Y-:-&\'\\\::'EV:-:E::\:N:::-IN:::G::-) --......:. MAY 21-JUNE 22/JUNE 25·JUL127/JULY 30·AUG. 31 ATIEND ONE, TWO OR ALL THREE SESSIONS WEEKEND COLLEGE CLASSES BEGIN JUNE 30, JULY 7 or 8 , Summer courses are also allailable at the Suffolk Bra~ch Campus, s'rentwood. ll. • (5·f6) 273-5112 _. -------- Visiting Undergraduate and Graduat.e StUdents Invited For the summer bulletin, p~one (516) 299-2431 or mail coupon. ---------------~-- Summer Session Office . - c . C.W.'SLOstucenler':W' ·: RREENVALE:. New·vo.RK· tts4a An Equal Opporturit\yl/\ffirmliti)I.~;Acllon·.flisfi11Jtion Please send me the SumniE!r '7.9 Bulli:!tih. Name q Address --------...;__--~--~ City, State, Zip -~---~~--~--- ., .. - - p s J. visit amu but 1 A · Don1 Tho I ·- l Apt be En su · Ce1 ·Be' · an~ j a .mt JC Ho Co: M J Bo fiv TE Pa ar1 · im J ex

.. ' ., / e6NCOR.DIENSIS, April 12, 19?'9 Page 9 -Arou_nd Campus . day or night. Their prey is lured into the bathroom with some connived story, and is drencl)ed with gallons of water as he-she is helpless in a locked stall. The perpetrators then gleefully exit, leaving the victim wrinkled and wet beyond recognition. Peter Donlon to study the sociology of. amQ.sement parks ln eight ~uropean countries. He was one of 70 students from 46 colleges . awarded grants for a postgraduate year of study. · Be is no stranger . to the subject. His parents, Jim and . Irene Donlon. of 140 PrQctor Blvd., Utica, N.Y. operate the Sylvan Beach Amusement Park · on Oneida Lake, between Utica and Syracuse. ''My grandfather started the business, so it's been in my family for quite some time.\ His year;.Ji.mg study of Euro'-pean amusement parks will incl~e three major topics• clientele, exhibit content, and ambience. !luilding on what lte has learned by helping ·his family at Sylvan Beach, Donlon will study padts in Belgium, England, Ireland, Scotland, Germany, Switzerland, Sweden ~;~.nd. Luxembourg. _ think you can use amusement parks, .in particular, for an insight into various culture~ and societies.'' He already has discovered some marked differences in amusement parks of different countries. For instance, one park in England, he says, provides a child care center where patrons leave their children before entering the park. Other parks cater ex- pressly to children. And a park in Germany specializes in . political speakers. The Watson fellowship program is' a national com- petition among students from 48 .independent colleges and universities.. The 70 fellowship winners for 1979 were chosen from among 176 finalists nominated by the participating institutions. The award for a single Fellow is $8 1 000. \ be requested to sign up for an interview which wiU be given during the week of May 6. GA.TESMEN perform an irn- P<Jrtant service for the campus community by giving guided tours to prospective students and their families. Seniors, having been GATESMENin the pa,st, are also given the op- port-unity to conduct campus interviews. Toilet Trouble The pressures of college and the anxieties of life away from home seem to have taken their toll on a few Union College students. These students, af- fectionately called the \Masked Marauders\ are creating chaos and drenching The students of the college are warned to stay clear of suspicious bathrooms, and to hide when approacbed by some devious \Fruit of the Loom\. The administration has made no statements pertaining to the situation at this time. Sign-Up Sign-ups are now taking place Parks StUdy Donlon already has received encouragement from an in- ternational association G.f amusement park owners, and .hopes to write for the association's newsletter at the · end of his study. Gates men · bathrooms. · for all Union College students who are interested in working on the Union Book '80 staff. Anybody in photography, art- work, layout or helping with literary contributions should f!Ontact Lorraine Marra in Carnegie as soon as possible. A preliminary organizational It seems that these masked J. Peter Donlon expects to visit more . than a few . amusement park~; next year- . but not strictly for fun. ·' A senior economics major, \How we spend our leisure time,\ Donlon notes, ''reflects something irnpo~ant about us. I GATESMEN applications will be available in the Admissions Office beginning Tuesday, April 17. The deadlme for completed applications is Friday, May 5. As soon as you return your completed application you will · men, so called for their habit of wearing underwear on their heads to hide their identities, delight in soaking their v-ictims with water at any h~our of the · . meeting wiU be held on Monday, April 16th at 4:00 p.m. in Student Activities. All are ·welcome. · Donlon has been awarded a 1979 Thomas J .. Watson Fellowship --Are,a Calendar--- MUSIC April 18. One Wednesday, Aptil18, at 8:30 p~m-, there will be a recital by pianist\ Paula Envis in tbe Recital Hall of SUNYA's Performing Arts · Center. It will feature works by · Beethoven,. Messiaen, Ravel, · and Chopin. . Apri118. Concert. Sp.iritwoo<l- a duo presenting traditional music. To be held at 12:30 p.m. JCA Perk-U-Later Coffee House, .Student Center, Junior College of ~lbany. · MEQIA April 16-20, The Electronic . Body. Arts will conduct a free fiye-day workshop in Minle and Television at .EBI's RPI studio. Pantomime artists' and media artists who work with mime are · invited to participate. · April '17~29, Annual student exhibition of works in all media by~tudent artists at SUNY at Albany. Open reception on Tuesday,. Apri117, 7-9 p.m, LECTURES April 12. Philosophy Forum: \Nuclear Energy and Its Alternatives,\ with Professor Raymond Baechler of the Chemistry Department, and · Professor Scott K. Kinerson of the Mathematics and Physical Science Department. Held at 7:30p.m. Russell Sage Coll~ge. April17. Convocation: Nancy Friday, author of My Mother, My Self, speaker. Held at 11:50 a.m. Russell Sage College. Free. Apri118. The Toastmasters, a voluntl)ry organization of men and women dedicated to the improvement of individual speaking, listening, and thinking opportunities, will hold a dinner meeting at 6:30 .p.m. at the Holiday Inn, 100 Nott Terrace. Guesta and .new members are welcome. FILM April 16. Spartish Film Festival: \Music en Ja Noche\ with English subtjtles. Held at 7:30 p;m. Russell Sage College. DANCE April 14. At 8 p.m., the Berkshire Ballet will present \Gizelle at the Palace Theatre in Albany. Dancing with the company will be • Durine Alinova and David Brown of the Boston Banet. April 17. Jose Greco Flamenco Dancers: Sponsored jointly with RPI at 8:30 p.m. Schacht Fine Arts Genter . Admission $1. Russell Sage College. Apri119, 20, 21. Spring Dance Concert, 8 p.m., Little Theatre. · Admission· $L 75, . students; $2.75, open public. Russell Sage College. Bome fo Borne// 4Ria8ummer ' Where else can you polish yout writing skills and learn to use a computer or be in an under· graduate prelaw program and take a courst! ,Jn Intaglio pfinting? .Where else can you interact with so diverse. a group of faculty and students in a uniquely attractive setting of hills, lakes, gorges, and waterfalls? Here at Cornell, you can fulfill requirements, compfete courses In order to accelerate, or simply take the time to study those appealing things for which you've never before. had the time. ' · · Request an Announcement and see for yourself all the reasons why Cornell is ·where you should be this summer. Cornell University Summer Session, 111 Day Hall,· lthaca,NewYork 14853._ Co'rnell .Law School Und~rgraduate Pr~law Program June 11 to July 24, 1979 A demanding six-week program for college students who want to learn what law school is like. For further information_ write to Prof, E. F. Roberts, Cornell Law School 3148 Myron Taylor Hall, Ithaca,. NY 14853 Have you considered · -whatanMS • • tn accounting can tnean to you? Even if you have never had a single hoyr of accounting in any of your college courses, you can take advantage of this opportunity to ouild a solid foundation in accounting concepts and have a rewarding careE!r in professional accounting. '\' At Northeastern University, ·you can get a Master of Science degree in Accounting in 15 months. Designed especially for non-accounting undergraduates, the North· eastern program consists of six months of classroom study in the basics of accounting, three months paid on· the·job internship with a public accounting firrn, and then · six months of intensive study integrating your intern expe· rierlces with class study, in preparation for the CPA exam. There is a long standing and close partnership between the Graduate School and the leading public accounting firms: Arthur Andersen; Alexander Grant; Arthur Young; Coope55 & Lybrand;_ Ernst & Ernst; Deloitte, Haskins & Sel)s; Laventhol & Horwath; Peat Marwick Mitchell; Price Waterhouse; and Touche Ross. The firms work closely with the school both in program design and provision of intern and graduate· placement. r----•-----------------------------..,.----· : For more lnformatlol! call (617)437·2714orwrlte: : : Professor Joseph Golemme 1 Graduate School of Professional Accounting : Northeastern Uni11ersity 1 360 Huntington Avenue a Boston, Mass. 02115 I : Name .u I I Addres.\-'---~------'--------- 1 I 1 Cily Stale ZiP•----''---- 1 : · College ' ' Class __ _ L------------~------------------------ Northeast~rn University • ..

Page 10 BULLETIN BOARD Corne to PCR this week to sign up for: Life Work Planning: April 19 · at 4 p.m. at PCR Job Search & Interviewing fechniques: April 24 at 4 p.m. . at PCR Careers in Health Policy & Administration: April26 at 3:30 p.m. in Bailey Hall, Room 31.0 Life After Union:_ April27· at 10 a.m. in Strauss Lounge. We receive information on Summer Jobs, Internships and Direct Referral positions. Please check with the . Placement Office-WEEKLY. GET INVOLVED Sign..up to be an Orkntation Advisor in the Student ' Activities Office. Your last · chance is Friday, April 13. Interviews win be held Monday, April 16 thru Friday, April 20 from 7 to 11 p.m. SIGN UP · . NOW!! The Department of Physics is conducting a third year evaluation of Professor Hans· Ohanian. If you would like to submit any information relevant to the evaluation, you ma~y do so by contacting Prof. V.E. Pilcher, Chairman, Physics Department. - Schaffer Library Book Sale: From 9:30 a.m. Tuesday, April 17 through 4 p.m. Wednesday, April 18. Hardbacks 50 cents; paperbacks 25 cents. Several meal plans available at Sigma Phi. For the budget- conscious. Lunch and-or dinner. Contact Steve at 382-9225. Attention Seniors Students interested in~ working on \Senior Fling\- sign up now in Student Activities Office. It's time for thinking about Senior F~g! ! - Anyone interested in traveling to Israel this summer from 3 to 6 weeks contact Dave at 374-0960. Wildavsky to Speak Dr. Aaron Wildavsky will present a talk titled '' Accep- table Risks in Science and Technology\ at Union College at 8 p,m. AprU16 in Room 204, Butterfield Hall. - OONOORDIENSIS, April 12, 19'19 classifieDs This talk is sponsored by the Sigma Xi Chapter at Union College and is open •to the public. Wildavs~y is a nationally known pplitical scientist with controversial theorie.s over cautious attitudes and policies which restrict new .technological developments. Wildavsky was dean of the Graduate School of Public Policy at the University of California at Berkeley and is now president of the Russell Sage Fomdation. Amnesty International General Meeting-iSunday, April 15 at 10 p.m. in Strauss Lounge. Important topics to be discussed. Assemblyman-Historian to Speak on Precursors to Holocaust Sean P~ Walsh, an expert on Irish history and a member of the New York State Assembly, will speak on the subject ''Precursors to the Holocaust'' on Tuesday, April 17, at 11:30 a.m. in SS 016. Assemblyman Waslsh is a magna cum laude graduate of Amherst, who has studied at the Institut d'Etudes Politiques of the University of Paris. He holds a J.D. from the Fordham University School of Law and an M.A. in history from Columbia University, where he is currently a candidate for the Ph. D. He was elected to the Assembly from the 82nd District (Bronx) in 1977 and reelected in 1978. New Books Acquired By Schaffer Library: P.O. Box 17, Schenectady, NY 12301; (518) 356-1700. DUTIES: Presents music selections in a manner con- sistent with stati.on policy (WMHTnFM is a 24 hour concert music station, and a member of the National Public Radio network). Prepares and reads-. · news,. promos, and public servfce announcements as assigned. REQUIRES: Reliability and flexibility in working hours. Third-Class FCC Operations License. Familiarity With classical music and foreigH language pronunciations. EXPERIENCE PREFERRED. PAYS: $3.85-hr. HOURS: To be determined (Approxinw.tely 25-35 hrs.-wk.) --:· STARTING DATE: Immediately. Please send resume or call for audition appointment. · WMHT•TV~FM is an equal opportunity employer .. The Stroke Club of Schenectady is running a paper drive ·from 9:00-5:00 on Saturday, April 14. in the Gabriel· Foods parking lot (across from.-- the Golden Dragon). They need about four volunteers (preferable male) to help with the unloading of papers during the. day. Pl~ase contact George Lombardi at 377-1379 or Joe Zolner (6061) if you can offer any assistance. Eat for free. Be a waiter at Sigma Phi. Contact Steve at 38_2- 9225. Spring Term. PERSONALS To Jan and Roseann-Here .aresome E's lor your Heroes. · eeeeeeeeeeee. n you need anymore just caU me at my office.-Pure B. MY SILVER STREAK. LUV YA. JEEP, JEEP, JEEP. YOUR MOUNTAIN MAN D, M, K-Thanks for putting up with me--8. · D'-I guess I need those lessons now-S O'Toole's Fools-Thanks for a great season-Capt. S . Great party Cathy ~ John! am proud of you.! K-Whereinthehellis Milford? or West:vjlle? · .. Kel.-I can't see very.- weil!! How about a third sundae- · . . . • - 'I' ' -- - maybe a sloppy one .... Larry-Thank you for the Physics Mlp-:K · -. LS-you're ;not a bad !gUf, · _considering you're ov,er- . protective, · conservative, and narrow-minded! you!' ex Ten-couldn't you think of . something more original· than ''1 have a headache?'' .BL Mindy-thanks fotJ believing:.... PaQl L Y ..Shorts hub? Trying to live up to your image; Bo~es to ' 1)·-Wben are we going to go ·.cover up. understand;.....'fen . out for some more sundaes? L K-A round of \Tennis\ with \Nasty\? He is· your favorite.- LY O'Toole's Fools are No. 1 sM...;What was on that blue egg? D GuU-Aptil21st, for how many hDurs this time? Disco Phil & Pat--Happy First Anniversary and many more! ! IS Dave-Congratu].ations on all of your goo~ news! !! I really Creep & Marrley-·Happy • Easter Don't let the bunnies . ' bite . ..M LY -your neck is cute M \'\ M-we are willing, to help you · fill your · new position-- available! ! If you are sure, Just pick them trees. We don't. want any shrubs or bushes in our suite! C&B Creep--Friday is corning up. Watch out! M JT Rubin-Only 80 percent! You must have· held the broom at 49 or did you forget to __ put the Now there is an easy way of knowing what new books have arrived at Schaffer Library. Just go past the circulati9n desk to-'tbe Acquisitions Unit at the back of the librar-y. A box laoeled NEW BOOKS contains a card for each new book received. This provides an • opportunity . f~r . faculty . in contiguous diSCiplmes to fmd out what others have ordered. Bill Cosby tells why Red Cross needs your type of blood. __ \Every day of the week,. there's somebcl<ly who needs your type of blood. . · · 1 Wh' h · \But the thing about blood Is: it doesn't keep ve_ry ong. IC means we've got to keep the supply constantly com mg. Donors are needed every day. . \SORRY TO SAY, THERE ARE NEVER ENOUGH DONORS. \In fad, five people out of every 100 are doing the whole job. That:s right, five per cent of the people give 100 per cent of the blood that s donated. 1 \If you're between 17 and 66, and generally healthy, Y:ou can he P change that. And your one blood donation can help up to f1ve people to 11 ~C:an .your Red Cross Bllod Center and make a donor appointrne~! soon. It's one way you carrhelp. keep .Red Cross ready ... to help others. HELP.. WANTED POSITION OPENING PART;.TIM.$ TITLE: FM announcer CONTACT: Barbara J. Dewey, Director __ <!f _Human Resources, WMHT-TV -FM. Appointments m·ade in Student Activities Office Bloodmobile April19 &20 Alumni ,Gym 11 - 5 \p.m.· --- \\\ . ' t . -. JuJfpiJt~~ .JACK•s '4{,3 ./ - ' - ~~ . ~ ·: ~1: D'RIVE ~ j :; ~.;_ . ~~- - . . Open_ Daily 7 1a.m • CO~LINS PARK • SCOTIA, NEW YORK 12302 • 518/393-6101 Z 'l//////;,.'////////////////////////.: V//. .o s.u~~ ~ • • • \' > J) jGIIIk . .:.J . . . . A1' J 5' .~ ~,. : eJ co. IJ<C. == ,_, ~ AUCTIONEERS & APPRAISERS · liCENSED-BONDED-INSURED Fund Raising. Auction Parents' Weekend Sunday, M-ay 6.,2.:00 p.m •. S d B Achilles Rink ponso.re y-- Delta Gamma Sorority and ~ Sight Conservation -and Aid to the Blind Oo you have any merchandise that you wish to sell or get rid of? Let us help you out! . . . Call .Mona at 370-6519 .• ''Have Gavel Will Travel\ ' ' - sign on 1 Don't wor1 .(?) work Deb be- California this week~ Joe-'l'hE same witt .for a char Bill & l you been Brian-- I where die Lisa & what in tt DO-gla• have lunc Irving~ their son welcome College C them a Passover. slogan: Y em. A r Irving K Kosher fo \liSTF. Second Fl ATTEN has issue~ this ye~ desperate $1 for e;:~c No. 6423, -B. W1l mean.'! D.W.S.• they an v Disco 1 Hampton Spring1 Councilin, 7:30 to 8: You kno\1 RK-Ho Jack-d dershirt' derwear? RSK-81 ne_xt yea1 AC \' EUR Tra\ Frees~ about· expert• That's we're' tak1 young world, And option the giG village Greek Russia India .. detail, Call color t ------ DYul •bout ~ 'INI'Efl C• sen Mad New Yor (212) 35 1· Name_ I Addrea I I I Teleph1 I I School -----·

' . ' . OONOORDIENSIS~ April 12, 1979 Page 11 sign on the bath-room door? Don't worry rm sure your hard· You, the Florida Five, are: (?) w(,lrk wil~ pay off!'!! -sick, Yup,' Yup, Yup, Yap, Yup, Slob-( yes, Sarah, that's you)- -where's my favorite orange \free\ is defined as having no sweatshirt? (the one that says· · twork to do.-J. Florida 5-Wllat\s the starr ding total f()f hunks and babes?? Yup Vail on it!) Debbe .. -Virginia., Texas, California-.where's it gonna be Swuitie, sorry, but it looks this weekend?! like you're back to part time,. the wanderer came back-a. · Eileen--How was Florida? John Morris ••• Joe-The office wasn't the · . regular. same without youmoit was quiet Darcey, are you sure there'-s no 'ie' ~n Hallliilrman? \ Continued from page 1 meantime to keep him posted on last time until he assumes the for a change. Bill & Khaleei.-Why haven't you been in to see me? Brian-Love your red pants- ·· where die you find them? _ · Lisa & Rick-we won't have what in the fafi'N:t, . . ~ . DO-gladyour back--! want to have lunch! ' Irving and Shish Kn<ibb and their son Rob. would like to welcome back the Union College Corrununity and wish them a Happy Easter and Passover. And remember our slogan: You make em, we bite em. A note . 9f information, Irving Knobb Sausages are Kosher for Passover. \1 IS THE LONUEST NO.\- Second Floor Richmond ATTENTION-Anyone who haS issues No. 7, 3, and•or 12 of this years \CQncordy'; I desperately need them. I'll pay $1 for e!lch one. Contact Jeff at No. 6423, or in 352 Fox. -B. What does \fire it up\ mean] D.W.S.--They want you BAD, they all want you BAD. Disco Fred comes alive in Hampton Bay;s .. Spring tertn hours for the Fox Counciling Service will be from 7:30 to 3:30 P.M. (M.W., Th.)- You know who you are. RK-How's your ass?-Jon G. Jack-does Les wear an unm dershirt? How · about un- derwear? RSK...Sorry about Israel .. :. ne)ct year in Jerusalem? EUROPE AND BEYOND! Traveling the open road. ~ Freestyle. 1here's something about it that means the best experiences you'll ever have. That's the kind of vacation we're offering you. Take a modem coach, add · young people from all over the world, ·and hit the road. And you have over thirty options of which road to' hit: the glamour cities and colorful villages of the real Europe, the Greek Islands, Scandinavia, Russia, the Middle East, A{lica, lndla ... dty to city, detail to detail, adventure to adventwe. Call or write for our free full- color brochure. ------------~~-~---- DYul Send me more lnfonn•t~on about AdventuteWorld 791 · . INIU COlLEGIATE HOLiDAYS INC 501 Mad1son Avenue New York. N Y 10022 (212) 355·4705 Name ___ _ Addre... .L!L_ Telephone-~-~-'-,-- School -·- _ _ 1 --------------~------ Doug & Fredd..;The sorority .girls numl:>ered twenty-four. » 'K' and 'A', like the fro's-M campus controversies and Presidency on .Apr. 20 and 21 at otherwise acquaint him with the the Board -of Trustees meeting The Union men n~l>ered three. Union job and community. His scheduled here. It is hoped by Hey, Second· Floor East-the fitst month in office, according the trustees that Mr. Morris will battle has began .. -Just to Provost HWltley, will be find some time free to meet with Who :could .a.skfor very much more. remember, no dead giveaw~ys. dedicated to his acquainting members of the carn,pus ~ himself with the flavor of Union. community dtll'ing these two Especially when they were \free.'' We watched them ·mop the Marilyn: Don't worry. We ··Morris will appear on ·campus days. still love you~ A., M,, C., M., M., for what will probably be the floor, · I:, and the brat - Ovr. R.A . ... three cheers for· domestidty. Ah, for the days of yore, When women knew their place was in the redidency, Alas, the Union girls may be quick, , but three cheers to good old Hartwick · · . Hats off to the girls of A, 0. Pi-Jeff Marla--I can't understand why you didn't want to bring the Choes Mfg. bag_ into Davidson. People will .not think your a J.A.P.-, tQo much. J. Scott We, 'fiie FLORIDA_ FIVE, really did it, Yup, Yup, Yup, Yup, Yup, Yup; Yup Fritz Donaleri: Don't ''woof\ too <loudly, they might take you away! DevU: Has paralysis set in lately? Schultzie: How's the free body business lately? ' Grape: Mr. Mole is a deep thinker, isn't he? ~---------------\ Roomie: Be bold! Ask the guy with the great eyes to go to Puerto· Rico with you. Room 226: Has the evil pig visited lately? Snort, Snort! ! Tha~kS 2f16 anTdh Co.M·oforer- I love Diamonds and c-overmg or e · T · Impulsive Ones. · urquOise. Jay-\! Don't Know!\ To Q,,,. J., D., P., etc.-see, even the \brute\ knows how to blow chow. Let's here it for Nos 13, 11, 5, and 2-The Suitcase Party! Be careful, Mary R, Don't get\ hit by a bus in the Pub! · Taz :'When they make the· movie, do we all get to play ourselves? Guys, Next time, lock us up in the closet and throw away the key!! Dutch Hollow PUb Bock Again Tltis Term! Happy Hour_ EVERY T11esday & Friday Night 9:30 .. 10:30 -,_ Mixe-d Drinks 50~- Free Popcorn! Continued from page 3 think that it is about time you stoppec;l to thank yours? \Our R.A.\ I can't believe that some people _say, . Those nasty things about their R.A. Those nasty things our R.A.'s not, He sells us drugs and booze and pot. . He may nat be a six year med. ·But he sure knows how to fix our heads. _ When asked auvice he'll say, \Don't fret, A wicked buzz you ought to get.\ All in all, we just want to say, \You're the best,\ to our R.A. Signed, Stan and Ollie (the names hav<e been changed to protect the innocent.) ' . Offi:ce of Placement and Career Resources ......... Offers information or assistance in the following: 1. What can I do with a major in ? 2. '!Life Work Planning\ and \Self-Dire<;ted Search\ to help~you clarify your career goals; 3. Career resources; 4. Career panels and seminars; 5. Career-related volunteer or internship opportunities; 6. Graduate school information; 7. Alurnni career .programs; 8. Job search strategies; 9. Job mar~et info.rmation; 10. Company recruiters; ll. Job announcements; 12. Credential files. Come to the office for details or make an ap- pointment to see your staff members at PCR <:t70-6176l. +o~(f.,<>_ · Two Steps From You! \' ~o~\'. New~st and Finest ... ·~· Fausto's n Hair Stylis1 U 1567 Van ·vranklen Ave. · n · Schenectady Steak & Brew . u 370-4776 I /. - Friday: & Stl,furday Nights • Free pitcher of beer . -- with your 'mecil. ,, BEllO'S UNISEX. SALON N.S.N.ti..IZB• ...... IH:SI6\' FOR MEN a WOMEN •• PERMANENT WA.VJNC • PRIVATE IOO'J1IS, 374-703·5' 1..0 CLINTQN ST. (JUST OFF STATE ST.) SCHENECTADY., N.V. ~;. ( FormerJy from Plaza 7} Over 15 years experience I An expert in yesterday's today's and tomorrow's hair styles f ,_, Specializing ihShags, Layer Cuts, Mini Shags, R-azor Cutting, Hair Coloring, Hair Straightening, Natural Look, Perms, Body Waves · · ~ For Women . : . 1 ~ ~ . Cuts ~a!~::~~.~~~~~ n_ Open: T~es.-Fri. 8-6 U Saturdays8-5 ~ n. Evenings by appointment · U Parking available ~Kk==~w~r==~~====N~k~:::MK•==~HIM~==:xHxO ., . '

-.···' Page 12 ooNOORDiE!V:.SIS, April te, 19\19 ,, .. sport5 BaSeball Drops·Opener by ''racer t\ Following .a productive training trip to New York City over the spring break, Union College's baseball team opened its 1979 season this past Sunday at Rensela-er Polytechnic Institute. The Dutchmen then returned to their Central Park diamond hoping to play a doubleheader home opener againstSt. Lawrence on April7, only to find a snow covered field. The baseballers will be under the guidance of Athletic Director Richard Sakala this year. Sakala is a one-year replacement for Coach Tom Cahill who is recuperating from a mid-winter operation but is expected to be back in the \dugout\ after his one-year hiatus. · Coach Sakala is no stranger to baseball. He played varsity baseball at Columbia University and later served as varsity baseball coach at his alma mater. In an attempt to get a slight jump on the weather, the Dutchmen worked out most of the spring break at Columbia University. They had practice games scheduled with teams from St. Johns, Columbia, and Seton Hall. During this .swing, the baseballers beat-St. Johns 8-6, Columbia 9·7,andSeton.Hall (in the first game uf a . double }1eader) 8;{) ,losing but QJ~e game duting their stay to Seton Hall, 8.:5 1 in the second game of the double header. Thus, Union's preseason record was 3-1. \I was very, very pleased with the workouts at Colum- bia,'' Coach Dick Sakala said of the Dutchmen's' half-week of scrimmages -against these teams. Sakata was especially im- pressed with the pitching and hitting of his players, noting that in three practice games, Union hurlers walked a total of . only three men. \That's ex- cellent control this time of year - any time of year,'' Sakala observed. VVhen the team returned to the north, itis previously im- pressive preseason record was marred by an opening day loss to arch·rival RPl. The game, scheduled for Thursday, AprilS, was postponed twice because of inclement weather. FinalJy played on Sunday, RPI won out, 6-6. In the game, the Dutchmen had 10 hits and committed 3 Varsity Baseball Schedule April5 R.P.I. A . 3:00 April 7 St. Lawrence (DBLH) H 1:00 April12 Williams A 3:00 April16 Albany A 3:00 April18 R.P.I, H 3:00 April22 Clarkson (DBLH) A 1:00 April23 Siena H 3:30 April: 27 Colgate H 3:00 April30 Hamilton A 3:00 May 1 LeMoyne {DB~H) H 1:30 May3 Siena A 7:30 May5 Middlebury (DBLH) H 1:00 MayS Albany .H 3:00 May 10 Norwich A . 3:00 May 12 Rochester A 2:00 May 13 Hobart (DBLH) A 1:00 Coach: Richard Sakata r Assistant Coach: Bob· Driscoll r ·Dave Adsit in the field. Chi Psi's Annual Schenec- Toga Beer Rally is coming Wednesday, April 25th .. See any Chi Psi Brother or call Chi Psi Lodge at 382-9029 for an entry form and-or specifics. Entries ·are due before April 23rd. errors ~ all throwmg.- Roolt\ie Dave Frederick . went the first five innings givi.ng up 4 runs, before Glenn Kinns reliev~d him. Kinns allowed two runs in the sixth and then went an to Shut out tbe Engineers. Going into the seventh inning, Union wasdown 6.0. In the top of the seventh, the Dutchmen managed 4 runs, ending the inning down 6-4. The game we~t into the ninth with the Score staying the same. With two out, Union loaded the bases. Kevin Frederick then walked bJ.Iinging Union within one. But then, Joe Lavery struck out, ending the game .at :E Cll 6~. I •;:: RPievenedupits recordatl- 3: 1 with the win;~Union dropped to ~ 0..1 with tbe loss. ~ Chris Massaroni paced the . ~­ Union attack with a double and &.. two singles. M:ark Decker; Dan Tho.mpson, and Dave Adsit contributed t:w:o singles each. Baselilal'i coach Richc3rd Sakala. After the game, Coach Sakata remained confident. ''I see no reason why we can't have a very competitive team this year,\ he said. \I'm very• pleased, very encouraged.\ April12- 18 This year's.teamis comprised of. both new and old~ faces. Returning is left fielder, Dave Adsit, last years leading batter. On the New York City trip; Adsit batted .429 and was 2 for 5 against RPI. This year he will bat thirtl. · Returning ·along with Adsit is Var. Lacrosse ~ J.V. Lacrosse Var. Baseball Var. Tennis Track Women's Sof.tball Women's Lacrosse April 14 a.t Ger:~eseo April 17 vs. Brockport April 12 at RP.I. April 16 aj Herkimer- • April 12 at Williams April ,16 at Albany April 18 vs. R.P.I. April 12 at Siena April 18 at Albany April 14 at'R.P.I. April 16 at R.P.I. April 13 at Skidmore April 16 vs .. Colgate ,sophomol'e speed merchant, Dan Thomson, who }Vill cover centerfield. Thomson has shown early signs of promise this Y,ear by hitting over .400 (in getting on base in 8 of 15 times) while in New York City, and. getting on .. base a total of 4 times against Lacrosse Open~ · RPI. _ The 1979 Union College Playing iii right field is Mark Varsity Lacrosse . season is Decker, a senior scheduled to underway in what promises to start this position last year, but be a rebuilding year for the TIMSULLIV AN -scoring. could not as he was injured program. For the third' time in before the first game of the as many years there is- a new- season. Decker batted 2 for 4 lacrosse -coach; which restricts Union opened its home season on grassless Daley Field last Wednesday, where a much improved Siena· squad downed our laxmen 11-6. A crowd of 150 braved the cool weather· to see Siena take a fjrst half 3-0 lead, led by two goals by Al Asterino. Siena controlled the ball throughout much of the half and it seemed the 'Union defense wouldhave to tighten. up for the second half. This·was not to be as Asterino and Bill · Baldwin continued to penetrate the Union defense for good op- portunities on goalie Green- berg. Freshman defenseman Brian Sullivan was inspiring with his hard hitting and in ... stinctive switching. lri all, four goals were ~cored by Siena in the third period. The Union offense began to generate op- portunities in the third period as Rob Sherman scored two unass~sted goa~s fro_m in front of the circle. RICh 1tomer con· nected on a backhai:J.der with an assist from Neil Kanner tb close out third period scoring. Kanner, Union's most potent scoringthreat, was often double and triple teamed during . the afternoon, limiting him to orie against RPI and got on base a recruiting and a sense of con- total of 7 of 15 times while in tinuity for the playeFs. This NewYorkCity. Backing Decker year's coach is Fran Meagher,· up in right is last years right an ex-lacrosse player at Holy fielder, Trace Anderson, a Cross arid most recently an senior power hitter. assistant on the John Hopkins Behind the plate is senior · University staff. Chris Massaroni, who was an The lacrosse program al impressive 9 for 9 in New York Union has been decimated by City and 3 for 5 versus RPI. · the loss of eight starters from -Junior Damien Quinn and last year's team. Due to a Freshman Kevin Wolf are his ·.deficiency of recruiting in the ·backups. · - ~ last three years there are few In seniDr Kevin Frederick, players sufficiently skilled to Union has the good defensive· fill this void. Among last year's third baseman which. it lacked returning standouts are junior last year (when Kevin played attackman Neil Kanner and shortstop and second base). senior goaltender, . klan Kevin Wolf will back him up. Greenberg, whom, along with At · shortstop. are hockey junior midfielder, Rob Sher- player Al Delibro and senior man, comprise this seasons Ron· Levine>Delibro, a fresh- three 'captains. Senior at- man, started against RPI; tackman Greg Steiner, senior Levine,_ bowever,. is far from midfielder Bill Wade, j~ior being -out of the picture. defenseman Barry Miller, and Second base is another sophomore midfielder Rob , position yet to be cla4ned~ A Fisl1tnan are the Qther retur- sophomore, Steve GoU, is , ning lettermen who will see starting now, but Paul Waldek, much action and play key roles a senior in his first year on the in the team's destiny. New faces team well see action before the with promis~ · include juniors season is finished. Tom Talbott and Rich \Rodeo'' Joe Lavery, pitcher-first Romer, .senior Jim Glavin, and baseman, will start at -the freshmen Brian Sullivan and latter. Lavery is a junior. Jim Wright. - Freshman pitchers -Glenn The team l!egan its season Kinns and· Dave Frederick .both during the spring break by right banders, throw fast and ·- travelling south to Long Island accurately. There is no doubt and Baltimore for two scrim- that they will strengthen the mages and two games. In a startin~ rotation. game against Adelphi U. the · · Union squad·was deFeated 18-8. J V T • ? Against a less experienced • · • . eDDIS • Morgan St. team Union came out on top by a 12-4 score. On the southern trip Neil Kanner led A'nyone interested in· playing J.V. tenn1s come by the courts . 'at 5: 00 on either Fri. the 13th or, Mon. the 16th. · goal and a pair of assists. The thitd period ended with the score 7-3 Siena. . The fourtb period saw end to end action with Siena ef· fectively fast-breaking on die Union goal, leaving goalie Al Greenberg one on one with Siena attackmen on several occasions. Greenberg made numerous acrobatic saves but was nonetheless penetrated four times in the period. Union L-------------~----~----------------~~--------------~~-1 the scoring parade witb 8 goals and 5 assists, whileJini Wright, Rich Romer; and Rob Sherman contributed in the bulk of the · attackrtlan Greg Steiner scored a quick-stick goal ~t l1: 16 of the fourth period. Neil Kanner tucked one inside the po~ at 8:29 and Rich Romer closed out all scoring ,,at 0:07 with a bullet from· in front' of the cage. The final .score was Siena 11, Union 6. Vol. PI 5 1 and On1 Planni Commi meetin1 Prelirn Draftin Athleti~ report, the C< subseq1 part of be sut Middle proces: Prof. Dept., P&P, I pointin female interco (as ind to 104) ratio u stu den Prof P&P' Draftil Athleti report, refers tivitie~ people the o1 activi struct have registJ Prof about sugge: menti< $30 rr curre: Nyde~ situati by tb dowm was memt persm dO Will reluc1 raisin the e11 this i conce endo\1 detra Nyde1 be c< facetE inc or athlet Nell Mech state< fad.lil co her be dj that i and devel Altho athle1

•• Founded at Union College 1877 Vol. 108, No. 18 Schenectady,. New York Thursday, April 19, 1979 New Dean Announced by DOUG ROSENF.ElD In what Provost C. William Huntley regards as \the second most important appointment (the selection of President Morris, of course, ranks first) for the future of Union College,\ Mr. Kenneth A. Nourse, the current Director .of Alwnni Relations at Vermont's Mid· Planning and Priorities Committee discusses athletic report. Spring _,riorities by STEVE GRILL he agre~d that considerable possibility of putting down an and DEBBE DAMRELL thought should be put into all-weather field there is being developing the program before looked into for the future. . On Monday, April 16, the Planning and Prioritie.s Committee (P&P) held its first meeting of Spring Term. The Preliminary Report of the Drafting Committee on College Athletics was discussed. This report, after comments from the College community and subsequent revision, will be part of the document that will be submitted as part of the Middle States reaccreditation process. planning the facilities. Aubrey then questioned the Prof. Nydegger then stated level of SPQrtS that can and that the report has stipulated 1) should be supported at Union. the role of athletics at Union, He says that the populace is not and how they should fit into the spectator-oriented. He also total picture of the school, and feels that there is a great dif· 2) what- needs to be 'done to ference between the attitudes of achieve this in a general way. a athletes now and some years What he. feels is needed is ad- back, when athlete's com· ministrative leadership in mitment was greater. The developing a plan for specific average cost per student athlete physical needs of the facilities. in the intercollegiate sports He indicated that much of the program is about $1000 and he data necessary for this llas questioned, due to his J!e_r:ceived already been found. For lack of commitment on the part . example, there are accurate of the athletes, Whether this estimates of the cost of an all- Continued on page 5 dlebury College, has been designated as Union's Dean of Admissions. In that office, .Mr. Nourse will replace the current Director of Admissions, UColl alumnus Jay Shupe, who plans to pursue a career in the real estate field. The 51-year-old Nourse is due to arrive on campus to assume the responsibilities of his post on or about .July 1, 1979. The decision to select Nourse marks the culmination of the search efforts, which began last November, by a nine-member Admissions Dean Selections Committee. The committee consisted of four faculty members (one from each of Divisions I-IV), two students, Dean of Students Robert H. Kellett (chairman), and two other administrators. It was charged with the responsibility of recommending the 'best' candidat{, and all committee members had tbe right to vote. After reviewing more than 100 prospective candidates, the committee narrowed the field to four. Although one of these dropped out, three visited the campus and sat through in- teryiew sessions conducted by the Selection Committee, the Admissions Committee, and the Middle States Draftin~ Com- mittee on Admissions. Of the two finalists, the Selections Committee, on Apr. 2, unanimously recommended Nourse to Provost Huntley, in whom was vested the power to make the final decision. As one quality exhibited by Nourse which serves to enhance his value as an Admissions Dean, he is claimed by Kellett to be \someone who is broadly experienced,'' with \21 years in adrniss:ons aRd 17 as ad- mission,; director.'' He has served as a Dean of Admissions at Clarkson College (1958-65), Rochester Institute of Technology (1957-58), and Worcester Polytechnic Institute (1971-74). For the period 1953-57, Nourse worked as an Assistant Director of Admissions at Clarkson College. Kellett also praises Nourse's establishment and operation of \alumni recruiting networks for admissions,\ noting that \we don't have any well- developed system like this.\ As demographic pr()jections foretell of declining applicant pools in the 1980's, a nation-wide program of recruitment through alumni may be' an essential addition , to the college's admissions policy . Continued on page 5 Prof. Schwarz of the Physics Dept., who is chairperson ·Of P&P, opened the meeting by pointing out that the male- ,. female ratio of participants in intercollegiate sports programs (as indicated in the Report - 334 to 104), was not far from the ratio of men to women in the studeqt body. weather field. However, the costs for this and all other items are constantly increasing; this should be taken into account during the planning stages, he said. Schwarz stated that this planning could take place at the · same time that the Vice- President for College Resources, Rasmussen, was soliciting contributions. Prof. Thomas indicated however, that Rasmussen actually could not begin this until the Board of Trust~I:!S gave him the go-ahead and that the Trustees might be reluctant. to do this because of possible competition with the endowment drive, as suggested above. Athletics. Assessed Prof. Nydegger, a member of P&P who also serves on the Drafting Committee on College Athletics, indicated that in the report, recreational atl!letics refers to less organized ac· tivities: for example, a group of people throwing a frisbee. On the other hand, intramural activities refer to more structured activities which have set rules and reqUire · registration of teams. Prof. Schwarz then asked about the relationship of suggested expenditures that are mentioned in the report, to the $30 million endowment drive currently being undertaken. Nydegger felt that the athletic situation should be considered by those involved in the en• dowment drive. The opinion was expressed by various members of the coinmittee that persons involved in the en· dowment drive might be reluctant to consider fund- raising for concerns other than the endowment. The reason for this is that furtd-raising for concerns may compete with the endowment drive, and thus detract from its success. Nydegger felt that there should be consideration of a multi- faceted fund-raising campaign incorporating endowment, athletics and others. Next, Prof. Aubrey of the Mechanical Engineering Dept., stated that before planning for facilities was undertaken, a coherent athletic program must be developed. Nydegger said that it was a \two-way street\ and that the program may develop around the facilities. Although he felt that a complete athletic plan was not necessary, Next, Prof. Nydegger stated that he has received ·responses from members of the Athletic staff and other members of the campus community about certain facilities. There are indications that the situation may be even worse than as indicated in the Athletic Report. For example, the pool is not deep enough in. order to be considered safe for diving. Nydegger also said that while inter-collegiate athletics frequently receive more notoriety, the intramural, recreational, and physical education activities are at least as if not more, important at a school like Union. It is his im~ pression that many .of the Athletic department staff share this opinion. Professor Phaup, .of the Economics Department, then raised the question as to the current commitment of the administration to improvement of the current athletic facilities. Nydegger replied that the only current commitments are the re-sodding of Library Field, and the leveling, drainage im- provement, and resodding of Garris field. There is no im- mediate action being taken concerning Paley field, as the by SUSAN BARNHART The Middle States Drafting Committee on College Athletics has released the first draft of its report. In outlining its proposal the committee sought to place athletics as a supplementary endeavor of the College, yet the report stressed the importance of such an emJeavor in creating adequate goals for the College. The report first dealt with the outdoor facilities presently existing on campus. The committee cited these facilities as overburdened, and in a state of poor repair. Of the three fields in use on campus the committee noted that Alexander Field is the only field which was designed and built as an athletic field. The current condition of this field has made it unusuable for track ahd field events, and the committee has found that it is only marginally usuable for football. The report goes on to note that due to these poor conditions baseball can no longer be played on the field. Presently baseball games are being played at Schenectady's Cen- tral Park. The committee seeks to rectify this situation as they. believe it detracts from en- thusiasm for the team. They suggest that this field is only adequatelymeeting the needs of the intramural activities which are being played on it. As for the other remaining fields used on campus, the committee noted many dif- ficulties in maintaining them. Since none of these fields were designed for athletic com- petition they are plagued with drainage and surface problems. This fact has caused serious concern as expressed by the committee, which sees potential safety hazards. As for the other outdoor existing facilities, namely the tennis and platform tennis courts, the report described these facilities as adequate. Expansion of thse facilities appeared improbable at this .time due to_the need for funds to repair other outdoor facilities. The committee suggested in- stead that stricter controls be placed on their usage to insure their upkeep. Turning to an examination of the ind()or athletic facilities on campus, the committee labelled Alumni Gym generally ''inadequate fDr current pur- poses.\ The report sighted heating and plumbing problems as well as suggesting the building was in a general state of disrepair. Specif.ically, locker facilities were concluded to be \incredibly poor,\ and storage was found to be inadequate. Foote pool did not meet desigiJ. standards set up by the NCAA and therefore was untJSeable for swim meets at which any AAU or NCAA record could be established. It was also noted that the basketball court was in need of constant repair, and it is thought by the committee to be of questionable value. Handball courts were also found not to be of regulation size and design, thus detracting from a presentable image, ()f possible Union sports recruits. On the whole, the Field House was found to be in better sliape than the gym. With the ex- ception of inadequate locker and equipment space the report found, the facility in good Continued on page 11 One of the recommendations of the athletic report is to replace Foote pool.

'I*~ \'\ \· ••• ~ .... r .... -:.~~1'1 '\ .•r')- dONCORDJJ!J'NSJS~ .April i9; 1979 . Page 2 Editorials Co-Educational In September, 1970 Union opened its doors, if not its arms, tu women undergraduates. In the years since then, this institution has been struggling through the changes that are necessary to provide a truly coeducational atmosphere. The evolution 0f the college from a male domain has not been easy, nor is it by any means complete. Attitudes do not change overnight. Gradually women have made their presence felt on campus .. The c;hartering .of a student chapter •Of the Society of Women Engineers, the birth of sororities, existence of women's inter-collegiate and intramural sports, the work of the first Women's Caucus, then the Women's Network, Commission on the Status of Women, the Women's Glee Club, and Big Sisters are all evidence of this, as are the presence of women working within the existing curricular and extra-curricular structures. Awareness is the key to change, awareness of the potential of evecy individual, male and female. As a small college, Union offers unique opportunities for growth in leadership, academic, research, artistic, and athletic capacities. Too often the possibilities are not recognized or not pursued. Union's Women's Network has declared April 20-29 to be Women's Week. A diversified program of events, ranging from topical discussions to athletic competition to good entertainment has been planned with the aim of involving as many groups on campus as possible. Only with full campus support can this be successful. A Need for Maintenance The somewhat less-than-overzealous manner in which the College . pursues the maintenance of its campus is everywhere visible. Although student vandalism contributes to the deterioration of the grounds and building facilities, it~ is not by any means the major problem. Vandals did not cause outdoor cement staircases to crumble. They did not cause exterior paint to crack and peel, nor are they the cause for heaving sidewalks and pothole- ridden streets. These are all products of time, wear, and severe weather, and as such they call for maintenance .efforts. These ef- forts are either non-existent or, when undertaken, grossly inadequate. Several efforts at campus .improvement have been made in the past and some are on the drawing boards for the future. The housing office's past efforts to give housing a facelift by interior painting is commendably genuine but, in its down-campus em- phasis not sufficiently far-reaching. The College Center Com- mittee~s plans for the long-needed improvement of Carnegie Hall are underway, but the question of when they will come about and how they shall be funded remain unanswered. While the perennial efforts at campus beautification through the planting of trees are to be repeated this year, they do not attack the core of the campus beauty problem-and that is maintenance. Without proper maintenance improvements are of no long term value. The MiddleStat~s Drafting Committee on Athletics, in its findings on the situation of Union's athletic fields, exemplifies the dangers inherent in any long tenn neglect of maintenance. Union College's athletic fields, on the whole, are in an abyssmal state of disrepair owing to the lack of continuous and adequate upkeep. We may be able to paint the rocks, patch the potholes, and plant the flowers in time for Parents Weekend. But we really are fooling only ourselves with this effort. Without continuous and con- scientious upkeep of the campus grounds and facilities, not only do we suffer the deterioration of what we already have, but we also undercut the benefits of any \improvements\ we may wish to effect. Qlnnrnr Editors-in-Chief Douglas Rosenfeld, Sara Simmons News Editors Paul Feinsot, Melissa Cragin Layout Editors Matt Nagorsky, Dan Wojnilower Feature Editors Sue Barnhart, Donna Creeley Associate Editor David Rubin Business EditDrs Carole Reinig, Gina Torrisi Classified Editor Roberta Moss Arts Editor Cindy Aranow Sports Editors Matt Kayne, Mark Palomba·/ Copy Editor Pam Ryan Photography Editor Pat Wrignt ~ Fine Lines Editor Jan DeDeka l Staff Pat Condello, Ellen Van Dyke,J Debbe Damrell, Shirley Cree1~·Y, Marla Band, Sue Marr: CONCORDIENSIS is published every Thursday by the student body of Union College, Carnegie Hall, Schenectady, New· York, 12308; Publications Office: Susquehanna Publications, Inc., 8% Reynolds Ave., Oneonta, New York 13820, (607) 432-6737. Entered in the Schenectady Post Office as third class matter~ Subscription 1 rate: 35 cents per copy, $1D per year, delivered anywhere in thet United States. : . . . Eq\lality.·· I feel it is my duty tn.e%pose 1:1. middle ul:t.ue.uH~~.utJ~tn::.wnl~oe.·a. .~:mj£flli~tnalgiQ~g<£t~mds blata.nt .. of s~ · bar: .. b.que with the }azz .. en\··· ·.:taJ.se •. amt·WlilS disG:dmination .. semble·pel'!fol\ming.as.;a.Speeial~ .· . ;mpus:, ' ·lft .. :qlt~uigi~AAi!l· ···~···.· .. , .attraotii(ln, ;;'$ati'Ullli&)Ji'.a1te~il'O.tlrtf .... · th.erEL will be· .n;umet:o:tii&:aprtrt.s;: , ®ents; ... ana:··ari'l¢~ejlii~n.~finst~.·:.: · ~~~~4~ ~···.9'~!~'fl\\''h t'H:JPJP. · . by Bvel$tdent-.,&u.burn and ·.his, .. , . •apJpree1a1~eAlbif,.yotlhW~onblhmakt~\';~.J Concordiensis W elcollles the Accepted Candidates Hove A Nice Day- We Hope To See You ln. The Fall byD~ In Jur ding ef Sele.ctiv• so-calle finally c, establis VolunteE As it r Service conscrip the AV taining ·• rest the had lon eligible fostered need to and by inductn lottery last rit• the bap1 Whett draftdi1 upon AI anti-mil point o much r servatic peaceti.J largely conscio1 the pee which draft as individt general militar: ThesE presse1 Landau Am eric ina spe Commi .Servic1 \There milita1 infringj rnally Constit than ~ servitu which arbitr denyin1 those v Landat Karpa Counse May o sentim \I wou remarl the n notori• systerr - its. n civU I reside pursue one's ( negotil throug! travel can aft family destro citizen much privac invalu and e1 Kar questi draft l meast with t indivi respec philo~ bearir lets medi~ in a s1 of th{ time more questl histor State! of thE never by tll whett scripl of Wl When spoke Dfa d

Page 2 CONCORDIENSIS, April 19, 1979 tion In September, 1970 Union opened its doors, if not its arms, Lu women undergraduates. In the years since then, this institution has been struggling through the changes that are necessary to provide a truly coeducational atmosphere. The evolution of the college from a male domain has not been easy, nor is it. by any means complete. Attitudes do not change overnight. Gradually women have made their presence felt on campus. The chartering of a student chapter ·of the Society of Women Engineers, the birth of sororities, existence of women's inter-collegiate and intramural sports, the work of the first Women's Caucus, then the Women's Network, Commission on the Status of Women, the Women's Glee Club, and Big Sisters are all evidence of this, as are the presence of women working within the existing curricular and extra-curricular structures. Awareness is the key to change, awareness of the potential of every individual, male and female. As a small callege, Union offers unique opportunities for growth in leadership, academic, research, artistic, and athletic capacities. Too often the possibilities are not recognized or not pursued. Union's Womea's Network has declared April 20-29 to be Women's Week. A diversified program of events, ranging from topical discussions to athletic competition to good entertainment has been planned with the a.im of involving as many grouJ?S on campus as possible. Only with full campus sapport can thts be successful. A Need for Maintenance The somewhat less-than-overzealous manner in which the College pursues the maintenance of its campus is everywhere visible. Although student vandalism contributes to the deterioration of the grounds and building facilities, it is not by any means the major proble:rn. Vandals did not cause outdoor cement staircases to crumble. They did not cause elderior paint to crack and peel, nor are they the cause for heaving sidewalks and pothole- ridden streets. These are all products of time, wear, and severe weather, and as such they call for maintenance efforts. These ef- forts are either non-existent or, when undertaken, grossly inadequate. Several efforts at campus improvement have been made in the past and s~me are on the dra~ng boa_rds for th~ futw:e. -r:he housing office's past efforts to ~1ve hous!-Ilg. a facelift by mter10r painting is co~~ndably genum~ but, m 1ts down-campus em- phasis not suffictently far-reaching. The College Center Com- mittee~s plans for the long-needed improvement of Carnegie Hall are underway, but the question of when they will ~orne about a!ld how they shall be funded remain unanswered. WJ:ile the perenmal efforts at campus beautification through the plantmg of trees are to be repeated this year, they do not attack the core of the campus beauty problem-and that is maintenance. Without proper maintenance improvements are of no long term value. The Middle States Drafting Committee on Athletics, in its findings on the situation of Union's athletic fields, exemplifies the dangers inherent in any long term neglect of maintenance. Union College's athletic fields, on the whole, are in an abyssmal state of disrepair owing to the lack of continuous and adequate upkeep. We may be able to paint the rocks, patch the potholes, and pl~nt the flowers in time for Parents Weekend. But we really are foolmg only ourselves with this €ffort. Without cont.~~ous and con- scientious upkeep of the campus grounds and facilities, not only do we suffer the deterioration of what we already have, but we also undercut the benefits of any \improvements\ we may wish to effect. Editors-in-Chief News Editors Layout Editors Feature Editors Associate Editor Business Editors Classified Editor Arts Editor Sports Editors Copy Editor Photography Editor Fine Lines Editor Staff Douglas Rosenfeld, Sara Simmons Paul Feinsot, Melissa Cragin Matt Nagorsky, Dan Wojnilower Sue Barnhart, Donna Creeley David Rubin Carole Reinig, Gina Torrisi Roberta Moss Cindy Aranow Matt Kayne, Mark Palomba 1 PamRyanl PatWrignt~ JanDeDeka\ I Pat Condello, Ellen Van Dyke,, Debbe Damrell, Shirley Creeley, Marla Band, Sue Marr~ CONCORDIENSIS is published every Thursday by the student body of Union College, Carnegie Hall, Schenectady, New York, 12308; Publications Office: Susquehanna Publications, Inc., 8% Reynolds Ave., Oneonta, New York 13820, (607) 432-6737. Entered in! the Schenectady Post Office as third class matter. Subscription~ rate: 35 cents per copy, $10 per year, delivered anywhere in the• United States. : e understand that you had to edit Equality We have also planned \An Evening with Cicely Tyson' • on Friday night, a morning jog with Prof. Bick, campus tours and faculty receptions 011: ' the article and change the in~ ' To the Editor: I feel it is my duty to expose a blatant example of se.x · discrimination taking place on our campus. I charge the Women's Lacrosse team with the offense. As a member of the football t¢am, I always found time to give a whistle or a nice compliment to the Union coeds as they passed by the Library Field during practice. There were occasions when we gave certain young ladies standing ovations. My complaint is that the Women's Lacrosse team does not make any kind of remarks to me, or any other members of the football team for that matter, as we pass the Library Field during their practices. It is time for all members o-f. this institution to break· tlte'ir stereotyped roles. I challenge the members of the Women$s Lacrosse team to give what is deserved not ooly to the foQtball team, but to . all mal9~ ou·.~tlli~ camptUJ,r~I ·de~~d -equa1itN:J Women .of the La<WOSse Team, BE BOLDt! Thank .. ·· .\~.' ll. u \ . ; Robert Feiit Class of: Parents Weekend · To the Students of Uni(ln College: Just a reminder to let you know that Parents Weekend is coming up in two and a half weeks on May 4, 5, and 6. So, it's important that you register your parents nuw in the student activities office. Tickets are available in student activities for .coffeehouse and caberet as well as for Nightdu!:>-this year featuring the musical group·M & M from Hawaii. Tickets are limited and they go fast (especially table seats at Nightclub) so iesa good idea to buy them before thetre sold out!! If you enjoy sports and are the outdoor type, you might want to sign up for the softball game or enter the bicycle race. The course for the bike race has been earefully mfipped out and is available when you sign up for these events in the student activities office. Saturday morning. In the middle of the day there will be a bar-b-que with the jazz en~ semble performing as a special attraction, Saturday afternoon there will be numerous sports events and a reception hosted by President Auburn and his wife. All day long there wHl be many displays and exhibits and ·of course we can't forg~t the tradition of the Prize Day Awards. On Sunday, you can wake up to a champagne brunch or organ recital and finish with the glee club concert. traduction so that it would be more fitting for the paper. However, your statement that. Mountebank~ had been mismanaging funds was totally false. and was not backed up by anything I had put in the article. This statement could be damaging w the Mountebanks at this point in time. I would appreciate it if you would make a retraction. For good reason, it upset some Mountebanks members. Errors Thank you, Laurie Mintz You will be receiving a formal prngram in your mailbox soon for the exact time and place these events will take place. In To the Editor: addition, your parents will be We would like to point out two receiving the program at about ·of the more serious errors that · the same time. · As you can se~, the weekend one of the editors made in is going to be very busy. But, editing last week's front page there's still a tot to be done to story entitled, \Theater Conw . make the W$kend a success troversy.\ First~ the Mounw · aJ:ld w~ \V{)utd appree~1.it~::y.-o~ i!nbm~s diq not mismaQa~~t . hJi!lp,; Att:sone tn:t·et~~lt~nt u:t ....•.....•.... ~ tJF .re .': Vtllunleel\iil~ their; (;SeltVl~ees).~. \V~S 'tb . . · t1e Hift' . (even if·it's just f~r an hour or ment state<t\attms past~o~: · two) can up m the student -l- , · u · .·· ·. ba :ks E . . · activities . 0 . . or e~:dl Rhoda \Uly. s \\ ... mmte~ n , 1 . x,ecubv-e_ · rbertt 1162a . 0 · ll:oberta Board . ~e~mg.. · the Arts .• 6v00::~ · ·· ·· · ' r , . · ·· · ··· · . Depantrnent,$llufll<I.be tht:o~eto :. D\0n''t fo~ to mark•off ·May .. acc~t.:r$«MtJ · .ci:lsponsillilityf •.. : 4, 5; and 6 on yout' calendar. fortbeovetex;~nditure, nottae. , Mountebank$.. Parents w~eekend Committee. · Stlcond~~tbe~ .Arts Department did aotv ''wrest. control of. the. All ~Alone.~ My name is Ron Davidson, and I am curr~ntly in~ carcerated in Gre~n Haven State Prison for possession o-f gambling devices. This being my first offense the tensi()n and loneliness of prison life have taxed my control to the limit. I wish to correspond andoo(}r visit with anyone willing to help ease a troubled spirit. Sincerely, Ron Davidson Green Haven State PriSon Stol'mville, NY 12582 No. 7(i..A-1166 Retract! Dear Editor: ' Last week when editlng my article on the theater COO* troversy,. y()u added SGme statements w.bich are nnt true. I Nott from tb.e Mountebanks/' as,· .. it··· was ..•. ,put •. Rather, ;a definition of. responsibilities was re~t-ablished by the Dean of Faculty after more than a decade o.f circumstance and precedent in which the students of Mountebanks assumed many of the maintenance, security, and safety responsibilities relating to the Nott. It should also be pointed out that ihe ~aption under the picture of .a scene from the \Robber Bridegroom\ displ~yed on the front page was incorrect. The caption should have stated that the play was an Arts Department production, not a Mountebanks productiQn as it was described, The significance of the \Robber Bridegroomu in relatinn to the theater eontrovetsy, was that it was the first so--called Arts Department production because the production costs were raised by the Arts Department rather than by the Mountebanks. R~pectfully, Mountebanks Executive Board Concordiensis W elcoines the Accepted Candidates Have A Nice Day- We Hope To See You In The Fall Co1 byil ln Ju din.g e Selectiv sa-calh final:ly < establi Volunte As it Service l conscri' .I the A' taining rest thE had lo1 eligibl1 fostere1 need tc and by induct1 lottery last ril the bai Whet draft d upon A anti-mi point I much servati peaceti largel: conscic the pe' which draft a individ genera militar Thes pressE Landa Ameri' in asp Comrr Servi< \Ther1 milita infrin~ mally Consti than servit1 which arbit denyir those Landa Karp~ Couns May I sentin \I WOl remar the I not or syster - its 1 civil residE pursu one's negot: throu~ travel canal famil: destrc citize much priva inval1 and E Ka quest draft me as with indiv respE philo beari lets medi in a 1 of th time morc ques1 histo StatE of th neve by t: whet scrii of VI Whe1 spok of a 1

OONOORDIBNSIS, April 19, .1979 Page 3 Co-mmentary: Efforts at Hand to Revive Draft by DOUG ROSENFELD In June, 1973, the longstan- ding efforts to abolish the S~le.ctive Service System, the so-called military 'draft,' finally carne to fruition with the establishment of the All- Volunteer Force (AVF) army. As it replaced the Selective Service process of military conscription through lottery,. the AVF system for main- taining a standing army lay to rest the fear of the draft which had long bothered the draft- eligible. The apprehensions fostered in the individual by the need to register for the draft and by the element of chance- inductment created by the lottery system, received their last rites simultaneously with the baptism of the A VF. Whether the- repeal of the draft did or did not rely greatly upon American post-Viet Nam anti-military sentiment is a point of much contention. A much more substantiable ob- servation is that the death of the peacetime draft owed itself· largely to the freedom- conscious American mind. It is the peculiarly American mind which views the peacetime draft as an encroachment on the individual's right to freedom in general and to freedom from military service in particular. These sentiments are ex- pressed by Mr. David E. Landau, Staff Counsel for the American Civil Liberties Union, in a speech delivered before the C9mmittee on The Armed . Services (Feb. 15, 1979): \There can be no doubt that military conscription is an infringement on rights nor- mally guaranteed· by the Constitution. It is nothing less than a. form of involuntary servitude. It is a harsh system which in the past . has been arbitrarily implemented, denying due process of law to those who are subjected to it.\ Landau echoes the late Marvin Karpatkin, then General Counsel to the ACLU, who in May of 1973 expressed these sentiments towards the draft: \I would like to concentr:ate my remarks on what we regard as the most conspicuous and notorious character .of any system of military conscription - its near total subjugation of civil liberties. The right to reside where one wishes; to pursue an education; to select one's own employment, and to negotiate working conditions through collective bargaining; to travel or not as one desires and can afford; to marry and raise a family - all of these are destroyed by a draft. The citizen who is drafted loses much of his valuable right of privacy, and even more of his invaluable rights of free speech and expression.\ Karpatkin's comments question the legitimacy of the draft as a concept, and to do so measure its lack of consistency with the American ideal of the individual's freedom with respect to the government .. His philosophical bent, while bearing much pointed critici~m, lets escape the more im- mediately resolvable and thus, in a sense more 'real,' question of the peacetime vs. the war- time draft. Mr. Landau deals more · directly wi:lb this question, as he outlines the legal history of the draft in the United States: \The constitutionality of the draft in peacetime has never been squarely addressed by the Supreme Court. Thus, whether there can be con- scription without a declaration of war is an open question. When the Supreme Court has spoken of the constitutionality of a draft, it has always been in the context of declared war. Chief Justice Wbite in a 1918 opinion upholding the World War I draft,. enacted after a congressional declaration of war, recognized the 'obligation ofthe citizen to render military setvice in case of need,' Arver v. United States 245 U.S. 366 (1918). And Mr. Justice Sutherland, in th'e famous Macintosh case of 1931, referred to the draft as a power which could be executed only 'in the last extrimity,' United States v. Macintosh, 283 U.S. 608 (1931).\ Karpatkin and Landau both concede the soundness of the Supreme Court's repeated authorization of the wartime draft, as it represents a carrying out .of the govern\ ment's constitutional charg.e to \provide for the common defense.\ In peacetime, however, when no threat to national security is imminent and no alleged breach of military power is well-founded, both Karpatkin and Landau warn of the consequences of maintaining the draft. According to Landau, the presence of the draft with its subsequent \loss of individual liberty is justified only by the overriding need of national preservation.\ And Karpatkin, in his turn and in kind, warns: \What is too easily forgotten is that the draft, in theory and in practice, is so diametrically opposed to individual liberty that nothing short of the preservation of the nation can justify it.\ It now appears that in the minds of some, the Selective Service System was never dead but comatose instead, and it is at the initiative of these people that efforts are being exerted in the 96th Congress to revive it. At least four separate proposals recently have been introduced (three in the House and one in the Senate) that would revive and amend the peacetime draft. House proposal H.R. 23, initiated by Representative Charles Bennett (D.-Fl), calls for ( 1) registration for the draft commencing no later than Oct. 1, 1979, (2) a study of the feasibility of institution three month active plus three year reserve requirement, (3) bringing Selective Service under the auspices of the Department of Defense and ( 4) exemption of the Selective Service from the Privacy Act of 1974. Congressman Sonny Mon- tgomery's (D-MS) House proposal H.R. 1901 calls for (1) draft registration to ·begin 90 days after enactment, (2) beginning in 1980, induction of up to 200,000 persons per year into Individual Ready Reserve (includes at least three months active duty), (3) induction to be by lottery system, and ( 4) reactivation of the draft board system. House proposal H.R. 2206. which, although it owes its formation to a number of congressmen, is attributed to Rep. Pete McCloskey (R-CA), would if enacted (1) establish National Service System separate from Selective Service System, (2) reactivate the Selective Service System, (3) provide for four options of service for each pers'on reaching age 18 (a. two years military service; b. six months active duty followed by 5.5 years in the military reserves; c. one year Civilian Service at subsistence wage only; d. six years of eligibility in a draft lottery with draftees paid substantially less than enlistees), (4) provide for a variety of exemptions and deterrents from the system, and (5) ~pose criminal penalties for refusal to register. Senators Robert Byrd. (D- WVJ and Sam Nunn (D-GA) have introduced a bill which stipulates (1) reinstitution of the Selective Service System, (2) registration for draft to begin 120 dayl' after enactment, and (3') exemption of Selective Service System from the Privacy Act of 1974. Military ·officials predicate the need to revive the draft on three things; the insuf~icient quantity and inadequate quality of recruits, and the additional cost incurred by .rnaintaining.an aU-volunteer, as opposed to a drafted, army. All of these points of contention are outlined in Jay Finegan's article,. ''Draft 'Inevitable,' Personnel Chief Says,\ which appeared in the Apr. 9, 1979 issue of Army Times. In the area of recruit quan· tities, it is claimed that our reserve forces are of inadequate strength. \General Bernard W. Rogers, Army Chief of Staff, urged Congress last month to start a draft to £ill the 500,000 troop shortage in the Individual Ready Reserve.\ Enlistment expectations in the Air Force are likewise hailed as disappointing: \the Air Force, which normally fills into its recruit quotas with ease, ex· pects a shortage of 4000 enlistees this year.\ Moreover, \for the first time since the draft ended, active Arrny recruiting is expected to fall significantly short of required objectives.\ Recruit quality is also lamented as indicative of a distressing situation, at least in the Air Force, which reportedly \is not enlisting as many high school graduates and people from the highest mental groups as it did last year.\ The cost of the A VF army is also cited as a factor which will become increasingly un· desirable over time. \The Congressional Budget Office estimates that it will cost an extra $6 billion a year - on top of inflation - to maintain the volunteer force in the 1980's.\ In the wake of all of this evidence to the contrary, ac- cording to Finegan, Army Secretary Clifford L. Alexander Jr., \who has called the current Army the best in American history, has said a draft would be 'unnecessary, unfair, and counterproductive.' n And so there does not appear to be a clearcut consensus on the urgency to the national defense of reinstituting the peacetime draft. There is no threat .of imminent war. There are conflicting views on the trends in recruit quality. The projected shortages in the future military reserve and active manpower are just that - projections and not in- controvertible fact. Meanwhile, the adverse social effects .of a peacetime draft revival are several and are not to be lightly considered. Whether the draft itself be in- stituted or not, registration for selective service could have serious effects on personal privacy, and could well negate the .gains made in this area by the Privacy Act of 1974. The Mar., 1979 issue of the ACLU newsletter, \Civil Liberties Alert,\ suggests that registration poses \a massive threat to individual privacy, based upon the proposed matching of IRS, Social Security, and other government files with high school graduation and voter registration records in order to create an instant pool of PQtential inductees.\ Under H.R. 2206, through the establishment of the National Service System, it is proposed that one's military obligation might be fulfined while per- forming civilian work under military auspices. This, what Landau .calls \coerced military service,\ is not constitutionally founded, and indeed \would amount to involuntary ser- vitude prohibited by the Thirteenth Amendment.'' Furthermore, he warns, and in ''a broader civil liberties context, such a transformation and enlargement of a strictly military obligation brings with it a totally unwarranted ex- tension of the reach of govern- ment compulsion.\ Once again, there exists the question of the constitutionality of a peacetime draft irrespective of its specific form. Also, there stands the record of the draft system's fostering of inequities in its effective treatment of individuals ac- cording to their social classes~ Opponents to registration and the draft have called for nationwide protests on Apr. · 30th. A broad-based coalition Including the American Civil Liberties Union, the Students for a Libertarian Society, and the United Sates Students Association will be holding an 'informative rally' on the steps of the Capital Building in Washington, D.C. at twelve neon on April 30th. People who wish to · par- ticipate in the resistance to registration and the draft should contact the following organizations, committees, andaor congressmen: Com- mittee Against Registration and Draft, 100 MarYland Ave., Washington, D. C.; United States Student Association, 1028 Conn. Ave. 300 N.W., Washington, D.C. House Committee on Armed Services-Democrats: Melvin Price (IL), Chmn., Charles Bennett (FL), Samuel Stratton (NY), Richard !chord (MO), Lucien Nedzi. (MI), Charles Wilson (CA), Richard White (TX), William Nichols (AL), Jack Brinkley (GA), Robert Mollohan (WV), Dan Daniel (VA), Sonny Montgomery (MS); Harold RllilDels (NM), Les Aspin (WI), Ronald Dellwns (CA), Mendel Davis (SC), Patricia Schroeder (CO), Abraham Kazen (TX), Bob Carr (Ml), Jim lloyd (CA), Larry McDonald (GA), Vic Fazio (CA), Claude Leach (LA), Beverly Byron (MD), Nicholas Mauroules (MA), Joe Wyatt (TX), Don Bailey (PA), Bob Stump (AZ). Republicans: Bob Wilson (CA}, William Dickinson (AL), G. Wm . Whitehurst (VA), Floyd Spence (SC), David Treen (LA), Robin Beard (TN), Donald Mitchell (NY), Marjorie Holt {MD), Robert Daniel (VA), Elwood Hillis (IN), David Emery (ME), Paul Trible (VA), Robert Badham (CA), Jame Courter (NJ), Charles Doughery (PA). Senate Committee on Armed Services-Democrats: John Stennis (MS), Chmn., Henry Jackson (WA), Howard Cannon (NV), Harry Byrd (VA), Sam Nwm (GA), John Culver (lA), Gary Hart (CO), Robert Morgan (NC), James Ex:on (NE), Carl Levin (MI). Republicans: John Tower (TX), Strom Thurmond (SC), Barry Goldwater (AZ), John Warner (VA), Gordon Humphrey (NH), William Cohen (ME), Roger Jepsen (IA). · Trustees On Campus The Board of Trustees will meet on campus Friday and Saturday, Apr. 20 and 21. They have little new or urgent business confronting them and it appears as though they will be supervising trends and projects already .begun, or new ones only in their nascent stages. The latter include a discussion of a proposed reorganization of the Student Affairs staff, made by Dean of Students Robert Kellett. Relatively little is known of the proposal except that it involves restaffing and relocating some of those working under the dean. Presumably, discussion will be in highly general terms until the campus can be ap- praised of the dean's intenticns. A project begun earlier whose progress iS to be reported upon is the College's bid for foun• dation money to improve aspects of student life. It comes in the form of a proposal made to the Kresge Foundation for funds to improve facilities for the handicapped; and the \Quality of Life\ in Fox, Davidson, West College, Rich· mond, North and South do:r- mitories. The money is also sought to help the College's Energy Conservation Project. The attempt has really been the result of the combined efforts of the Dean of Student's office, the Physical Plant, Saratoga Associates and the offices of Public Relations and College Resources. A good deal of the business at the April meeting is routine. The confirmation of honorary degrees, for example, is a formality, the research and selection having been com- pleted by the faculty-student committee working in con- junction with the ad- ministration The Acad-emic Affairs Committee of the Board of Trustees will undoubtedly give further consideration to twu recurring problems. The first is the status of the students of the Graduate Studies and Con- tinuing Education programs of the College. There are several problems concerning the fairness with which the College is treating them. They are, according to their complaints, second-class students. It has been suggested that a student association should go some distance to remedying the problem. This committee has alsQ been repeatedly told of difficulties that certain disciplines within the College curriculum are having problems attracting top quality faculty at entry-level positions. The Budget and Audit Committee will review and approve the 1979-80 · budget. Areas within this budget cited for special attention include an increase in food contract prices, and the financing of the athletic field rehabilitation and energy conservation program. There will also be a review of the budget for the current school year, and, in the Finance Committee, a report on the progress of the college en- dowment. Proposals for the establish- ment of a Trustee Advisory Board will be presented and discussed during the College Resources Committee meetings. This Board would be composed of no more than too Continued on pagetO

I j .i CONCORDIENSIS, April 19, 1979 Page 3 Commentary: Efforts at Hand to Revive Draft by DOUG ROSENFELD In June, 1973, the longstan- ding efforts to abolish the Selective Service System, the so-caUed military 'draft,' finally came tG fruitio11 with the establishmen.t of the All- Volunteer Force (AVF) army. As it replaced the Selective Service process af Inilitary conscription through lottery, the A VF system for main- taining a standing army lay to rest the fear of the draft which had long bothered the draft- eligible. The apprehensions fostered in the individual by the need to register for the draft and by the element of chance- inductment created by the lattery system, received their last rites simultaneously with the baptism of the A VF. Whether the repeal of the draft did or did not rely greatly upon American post-Viet Nam anti-military sentiment is a point of much contention. A much more substantiable ob- servation is that the death of the peacetime draft owed itself· largely to the freedom- conscious American mind. It is the peculiarly American mind which views the peacetime draft as an encraachment on the individual's right to freedom in general and to freedam from military service in particular. These sentiments are ex- pressed by Mr. David E. Landau, Staff Counsel for the American Civil Liberties Union, in a speech delivered before the Committee on The Armed Services (Feb. 15, 1979): \There can be no doubt that military conscript ion is an infringement on rights nor- mally guaranteed by the Constitution. It is nothing less than a form of involuntary servitude. It is a harsh system which in the past has been arbitrarily implemented, denying due process of law to those who are subjected to it.\ Landau echoes the late Marvin Karpatkin, then General Counsel to the ACLU, who in May of 1973 expressed these sentiments towards the draft: \I would like to concentrate my remarks on what we regard as the most conspicuous and notorious character of any system of military conscription - its near total subjugation of civil liberties. The right to reside where one wishes; to pursue an education; to select one's own employment, and to negotiate working conditions through collective bargaining; to travel or not as one desires and can afford; to marry and raise a family - all of these are destroyed by a draft. The citizen who is drafted loses much of his valuable right of privacy, and even more of his invaluable rights of free speech and expression.'' Karpatkin 's comments question the legitimacy of the draft as a concept, and to do so measure its lack of consistency with the American ideal of the individual's freedom with respect to the government. His philosophical bent, while bearing much pointed criticism, lets escape the more im- mediately resolvable and thus, in a sense more 'real,' question of the peacetime vs. the war- time draft. Mr. Landau deals more directly with this question, as he outlines the legal history of the draft in the United States: ''The constitutionality of the draft in peacetime has never been squarely addressed by the Supreme Court. Thus, whether there can be con- scription without a declaration of war is an open question. When the Supreme Court has spoken of the constitutionality of a draft, it has always been in the context of declared war. Chief Justice White in a 1918 opinion upholding the World War I draft, enacted after a cengressienal <leC'la:raHen of war, recognized the 'obligation of the citizen to render mi!litary service in case af need,' Arver v. United States 245 U.S. 366 (1918). And Mr. Justice Sutherland, in the famous Macintosh case of 1931, referred to the drrut as a power which could be executed only 'in the last extrimity,' United States v. Macintosh, 283 U.S. 608 (1931).\ Karpatkin ami Landau both concede the souncl.ness of the Supreme Court's repeated authorization of the wartime draft, as it represents a carrying out of the govern- ment's constitutional charge to \provide for the common defense.\ In peacetime, however, when nG threat to national security is imminent and no alleged breach of military pewer is weH-founded, both Karpatkin ancl. Landau warn of the consequences of maintaining the draft. According to Landau, the presence of the draft with its subsequent \loss ef individual liberty is justified only by the overriding need of national preservation.\ And Karpatkin, in his turn and in kind, warns: \What is too easily fergott~n is that the draft, in theory and in practice, is so diametrically opposed to individual liberty that nothing short of the preservation of the nation can justify it.\ It now appears that in the minds of some, the Selective Service System was never dead but comatose instead, and it is at the initiative of these people that efforts are being exerted in the 96th Cengress to revive it. At least four separate proposals recently have been introduced (three in the House and one in the Senate) that would revive and amend the peacetime draft. House proposal H.R. 23, initiated by Representative Charles Bennett (D.-Fl), calls for (1) registration for the draft commencing no later than Oct. 1, 1979, (2) a study of the feasibility of institution three month active plus three year reserve requirement, (3) bringing Selective Service under the auspices of the Department of Defense and (4) exemption of the Selective Service from the Privacy Act of 1974. Congressman Sonny Mon- tgomery's (D-MS) House proposal H.R. 1901 calls for (1) draft registration to begin 90 days after enactment, (2) beginning in 1980, induction of up to 200,000 persons per year into Individual Ready Reserve (includes at least three months active duty), (3) induction to be by lottery system, and ( 4) reactivation of the draft board system. House proposal H.R. 2206 which, although it owes its formation to a number of congressmen, is attributed to Rep. Pete McCloskey (R-CA), would if enacted (1) establish National Service System separate from Selective Service System, ( 2) reactivate the Selective Service System, (3) provide for four options of service for each pers'on reaching age 18 (a. two years military service; b. six months active duty followed by 5.5 years in the military reserves; c. one year Civilian Service at subsistence wage only; d. six years of eligibility in a draft lottery with draftees paid substantially less than enlistees), (4) provide for a variety of exemptions and deterrents from the system, and (5) impose criminal penalties for refusal to register. Senators Robert Byrd (D-- WV) and Sam Nunn (D-GA) have introduced a bill which stipulates (1) reinstitution of the Selective Service System, (2) registration for draft to begin 120 day!' after enactment, and (3) exemption af Sele~tive Service System from the Privacy Act of 1974. Military officials predicate the need to revive the draft en three things; the insufficient quantity and inadequate quality of recruits, and the additional cost incurred by :maintaining an aU-volunteer, as opposed to a drafted, army. All of these points of contentian are outlined in Jay Finegan's article, \Draft 'Inevitable,' Personnel Chief Says,\ which appeared in the Apr. 9, 1979 issue of Army Times. In the area of recruit quan- tities, it is claimed that our reserve forces are ef inadequate strength. \General Bernard W. Rogers, Army Chief of Staff, urged Congress last month to start a draft to fill the 500,000 troop shortage in the Individual Ready Reserve.\ Enlistment expectations in the Ak Force are likewise hailed as disappointing: • 'the Air For<:e, which normally fills into its recruit quotas with ease, ex- pects a shortage of 4000 enlistees this year.'' Moreover, \for the first time since the draft ended, active Army recruiting is expected to fall significantly short of required objectives.\ Recruit quality is also lamented as indicative of a distressing situation, at least in the Air Force, which reportedly \is not enlisting as many high school graduates and people from the highest mental groups as it did last year.\ The cost of the A VF army is also cited as a factor which will become increasingly un- desirable over time. \The Congressional Budget Office estimates that it will cost an extra $6 billion a year - on top of inflation - to maintain the volunteer force in the 1980's.\ In the wake of all of this evidence to the contrary, ac- cording to Finegan, Army Secretary Clifford L. Alexander Jr., \who has called the current Army the best in American history, has said a draft would be 'unnecessary, unfair, and coUJJterproductive.' :; A.nd so there does not appear to be a dearcut consensus on the ~gency to the national defense ef reinstituting the peacetime draft. TherE is no threat of imminent war. There are conflicting views on the trends in recruit quality. The projected shortages in the futwe military reserve and acthe manp<~wer are just that - projections and not in- controvertible fact. Meanwhile, the adverse SGcial effects of a peacetime dran revival are several and are not to be lightly considered. Whether the draft itself be in- stituted or not, registration for selective service could have serious effects on personal privacy, and could well negate the gains made in this area by the Privacy Act of 1974. The Mar., 1979 issue of the ACLU ne'-Vsletter, \Civil Liberties Alert,\ suggests that registratian poses \a massive threat to individual privacy, based upon the proposed matching of IRS, Social Security, and other goverruneRt files with high school graduation and voter registration records in order to create an instant pool of potential inductees.'' Under H.R. 2206, through the establishment ef the National Service System, it is pmposed that one's military obligation might be fulfilled while per- fanning civilian work under military auspices. This, what Landau calls ''coerced military service,\ is not constitutionally founded, and indeed \would amount to involuntary ser- vitude prohibited by the Thirteenth Amendment.\ Furthermore, he warns, and in \a broader civil liberties context, such a transformation and enlargement of a strictly military obligation brings with it a totally unwarranted ex- tension of the reach of govern- ment compulsion.\ ()nee again, there exists the question of the constitutionality of a peacetime draft irrespective of its specific form. Also, there stands the record of the draft system's fostering of inequities in its effective trEatment of individuals ac- cording to their social classes. Opponents to registration and the draft have called for nationwide protests on Apr. · 30th. A broad-based coalition including the American Civil Liberties Union, the Students for a Libertarian Society, and the United Sates Students Association will be holdrng an 'informative rally' on the steps of the Capital Building in Washington, D.C. at twelve noon on April 30th. People who wish to par- ticipate in the resistance to registration and the draft shoHld contact the following organizations, committees, and-or congressmen: Com- mittee Against Registration and DraH, 100 Maryland Ave., Washington, D.C.; United States Student Association, 1028 Conn. Ave. 300 N.W., Washington, D.C. House Committee on Armed 8ervices-Democrats: Melvin Price (IL), Clunn., Charles Bennett (FL), Samuel Stratton (NY), Richard lchord (MO), Lucien Nedzi. (MI), Charles Wilson (CA), Richard White (TX), William Nichols (AL), Jack Brinkley (GA), Robert Mollohan (WV), Dan Daniel (VA), Sonny Montgomery (MS); Harold Runnels (NM), Les Aspin (WI), Ronald Dellurns (CA), Mendel Davis (SC), Patricia Schroeder (CO), Abraham Kazen (TX), Bob Carr (MI), Jim Uoyd (CA), Larry McDonald (GA), Vic Fazio (CA), Claude Leach (LA), Beverly Byron (MD), Nicholas Mauroules (MA), Joe Wyatt (TX), Don Bailey (PA), Bob Stump (AZ). Republicans: Bob Wilson (CA), William Dickinson (AL), G. Wm. Whitehurst (VA), Floyd Spence (SC), David Treen (IA), Robin Beard (TN), Donald Mitchell (NY), Marjorie Holt (MD), Robert Daniel (VA), Elwood Hillis (IN), David Emery (ME), Paul Trible (VA), Robert Badham (CA), Jarne Courter (NJ), Charles Doughery (PA). Senate Committee on Armed Services-Democrats: John Stennis (MS), Chmn., Henry Jackson (WA), Howard Cannon (NV), Harry Byrd (VA), Sam Nunn (GA), John Culver (lA), Gary Hart (CO), Robert Morgan (NC), James Exon (NE), Carl Levin (MI). Republicans: John Tower (TX), Strom Thurmond (SC), Barry Goldwater (AZ), John Warner (VA), Gordon Humphrey (NH), William Cohen (ME), Roger Jepsen (lA). Trustees On Campus The Board of Trustees will meet on campus Friday and Saturday, Apr. 20 and 21. They have little new or urgent business confronting them and it appears as though they will be supervising trends and projects already begun, or new ones only in their nascent stages. The latter include a discussion of a proposed reorganization of the Student Affairs staff, made by Dean of Students Robert Kellett. Relatively little is known of the proposal except that it involves restaffing and relocating some of those working under the dean. Preslllllably, discussion will be in highly general terms Wltil the campus can be ap- praised of the dean's intentions. A project begun earlier whose progress is to be reported upon is the College's bid for foun- dation money to improve aspects of student life. It comes in the form of a proposal made to the Kresge Foundation for funds to improve facilities for the handicapped, and the \Quality of Life'' in Fox, Davidson, West College, Rich- mond, North and South dor- mitories. The money is also sought to help the College's Energy Conservation Project. The attempt has really been the result of the combined efforts of the Dean of Student's office, the Physical Plant, Saratoga Associates and the ()ffices of Public Relations and College Resources. A good deal of the business at the April meeting is routine. The confirmation of honorary degrees, for example, is a fotmality, the research and selection having been com- pleted by the faculty-student c<lmmittee working in con- junction with the ad- ministration The Academic Affairs Committee of the Board of Trustees will undoubtedly give f11rther consideration to tw(J rEcurring problems. The first is the status of the students of the Graduate Studies and Con- tinuing Education programs of tlle College. There are several problems conceming the fairness with which the College is treating them. They are, according to their c<>mplaints, second-class students. It has been suggested that a student association should go some distance to remedying the problem. This committee has also been repeatedly told of difficulties that certain disciplines within the College curriculwn are having problems attracting top quality faculty at entry-level positions. The Budget and Audit Committee will review and approve the 1979-80 budget. Areas within this budget cited for special attention include an increase in food contract prices, and the financing of the athletic field rehabilitation and energy conservation program. There will also be a review of the budget for the current school year, and, in the Finance Committee, a report on the progress of the college en- dowment. Proposals for the establish- ment of a Trustee Advisory Board will be presented and discussed during the College Resources Committee meetings. This Board would be composM of no more than 100 Continued on pagelO

Page 4 OONOORDIENSIS, April19, 19\19 New Furniture ~y PAUL.FEINSOT To the members of third floor West who constructed the letter to the editor concerning the condition of their lounge: tuition has nothing whatsoever to d.o with room cost and dormitory maintenance; the cost of fur• .n~shing an entire lounge is well above $300; there seems to be substantial credence to the rumor that certain members of your own floor have forcibly removed the . \missing\ fur- niture by way of the lounge window. likely to be refurnished. One housing committee member related that the new fUrniture, which has been or .. dered for next year, is made of a special fabric which will res!st pen and \knife\ holes. It spould also last for .seven years, barring major disasters, and considering that it can only be fit through lounge windows with a greclt deal of. difficulty. Yungwha Min and Betty Goodman of Career Resources and Placement. Housing Director Dave Wood commented that the letter exhibited a complete \lack of understanding\ of existing administrative operations. Mr. Wood indicated that one lounge chair-costs as little as $200 and as much as $445. He continued to say that a two-seater chair Would cost around $275, and that a full~sized couch \goes for Dean ·Of Students Robert Kellett is concerned more with changing the students' attitudes regarding the housing con- ditions. He recognizes that the \general appearance'' of the dorms -cannot be condusive to a positive attitude. He indicated the need for better lighting in the halls of West College, and suggested that fluorescent lights would \brighten up the place.\ The Dean als9 in- timated the ' likelihood of a supervision problem in regard to the performance of tbe maids, leaving the respon- .sibility in the hands of ·main- tenance. Life Mter Union? ~ IS THERE UFEIFlER COWIE All over campus for a couple of weeks now there have been posted placards with the design of a large question mark and the accompanying slogan: \Is There Life After College?\ The posters are part of an effort by the college's Career Resources and Placement Center to publicize the upcoming Apr. 27- 29th lecture event, \Life After Union: The Class of '78 Comes Back.\ If you are a UColl senior in the liberal arts disciplines and are as yet job-hunting, or if you are a non-senior student con- templating future involvement in a particular career field, then this weekend event is for you. The major engineers of the program, Career Counsellor Yungwha Min and 1978 Union graduates Bill Kelly and Nora Goldstein, have arranged for a host of Union's '78 graduates to return and speak on their ex- periences \of career planning and job hunting, and their first impressions of the world of work.\ According to Yungwha Min, in evolving the program the planners \wanted to cover a variety of career areas\ that might be of interest to \a population of liberal arts majors who haven't gotten definite job offers/' In pursuit of this goal, they consulted the \Senior Survey,\ an annually- compiled recorq of the careers pursued, and the graduate schools attended, by the college's most recent graduates. With the goal of a diverse group of lecture par- ticipants in mind, a variety of '78 graduates were contacted, and the program is based upon the respunse of these people. The featured speaker of the Saturday meeting who will, says Yungwha Min, \kick off the morning session,\ is Ms. Barbara Flynn of the New York State Department of Education. She is not a total stranger to Union, as she taught here briefly in the history depart- ment. Flynn, Assistant to the Deputy Commissioner of Higher and Professional Education, will speak on the topic, ''Transition From Campus to Career.\ One em- phasis that she is expected to exhibit in her speech is upon career fields which are emerging in importance. It is tentatively scheduled that, following Flynn's talk, several Union '78 graduates, each speaking on a topical issue, will be featured. Union alumnus Bill Kelly, an assistant in the formation of the program who is currently employed in Schenectady's Bureau of Urban Planning, will speak on \Creating Your Own Job.\ Mike Rotondi, Concordy ex- editor extraordinaire, impish- man-elect, and current em- ployee of IBM, where he is a technical writer, will speak on \How A Union Education Relates To The Job.\ These are only two of the six topical areas that are planned to be ad- dressed by Union's '78 grads at the Saturday event. The balance of the day and the evening will be filled with, among other things, panel discussions, a reception and dinner, and an evening rap session. The full tentative schedule for the event is printed below. One of the more important aspects .of the weekend is that it will afford some one-on-one discussion between students and graduates on the subjects of job applications, particular jobs, specific companies, etc. Those interested in a particular field can sign up for a one-on- one discussion with any of the representatives on a schedule which is now posted at the Office of Career Resources and Placement. Saturday, April 28atStrauss Lounge 9:30a.m. 10:00 11:00 12:30 p.m. 2:()()-4:30 2:00-3:15 3:15-4:30 5:00 7:00 Coffee and Donuts, Strauss Lounge Introduction Main Speaker '78 Speakers Emerging Job Areas Women at Work Taking Time Out Value of Internships How Union Education Relates to the Job-Mike Rotondi Creating Your Own Job-Bill Kaley Lunch, Pub Panel Discussions, Strauss Lounge 1. Careers in Business-Industry 2. Public Sector Careers 3. Technical Careers 4. Careers in Communication Reception and Dinner, Hale House Rap Session, Strauss Lounge Yungwha Mill is aware that the weekend event is not an original idea, as she admits \a lot of colleges ,are doing this.\ Nevertheless, she is en- thusiastic about the potential benefits of. the program. She feels that the \first-hand ad- vice\ which is the \whole idea of the program\ is a strong benefit of the .program, as students might learn more comfortably and thoroughly from peers. Moreover, if response is enthusiastic, next year'would see the expansion of the program. Perhaps, even a graduate schools event modeled on this careers program could come about. Is there life after college? You'd better believe it! Come oil down to Strauss Lounge on Apr. 28 and find out just what part careers can play in that life. . about $400.\ There is an abvious problem regarding furniture in the dorms, and the housing com- mittee is acting now to replace worn, destroyed, and missing items. The members .of the committee inspected all of the lounge furniture in aU of the dormitories. They found the furnishings in Richmond to be in the best condition, and therefore it is probable that these articles will be distributed to lounges in Fox, Davidson, and West. Conditions in these dorms being slightly better than disastrous. Both Richmond and North, where the .furniture was determined to be \too old,\ are Dean Kellett remarked that there should be \social struc- tures developed within the residence units.\ These would include the planning of specific dorm \activities and essentially relieving what he terms is an \unholy burden on the R.A.\ He related that an adequate \administrative support system,\ is necessary to / enable this residence \mechanism\ to work. These ideas are essential to Kellett's belief that \students living in dorms would like it to be pleasant.\ Housing Lottery Scheduled by DAVE WOOD. Housing Director The housing lottery will be conducted during the eighth and ninth weeks of Spring Term (May 14·23). The computer will randomly assign numbers to students by class year. It then translates the random number to a number that is un- derstandable-1 · through 300- roughly the class size. This will be done for each class year with the exception of the incoming freshman class. available apartments. The singles will be selected after all apartments have been chosen. The senior with the lowest lottery number will have first choice of available singles. The senior with the next lowest lottery number will have the second choice and etc. If some singles have not been Selected and there are no more seniors present, the junior present with the lowest lottery number will have the first choice of the remaining singles, and etc. This process will continue until all singles have been chosen. The lottery for doubles and suites will conclude the process. The senior lottery will be held on May 17; the jWlior lottery on May 21; and the sophomore lottery on May 23. The class member present with the lowest lottery number will have first pick. The class member with the next lowest lottery number, Members of the housing committee and housing staff will distribute to each eligible student a computer card (lot- tery card) bearing the student's name, ID number and lottery number. The student must pick up his or her lottery card IN PERSON and present an ID on May 3. Only students presenting ID's will receive a lottery card. If it is impossible for a student to pick up a lottery card that night, the student may do so at the housing office the next day. The selection of available on- campus housing will be divideg into three categories; Co-ops; apartments & singles; and doubles & suites. There will be a meeting to explain the selection process for co-.ops on May 7. Stewards from Bronner and Smith House will be on hand to provide information about running co-ops and members of the housing committee or housing office will answer all questions about the co-op lot- tery, which is scheduled for May 14. The remainder of campus housing will be selected according to class by the lottery number assigned to students. ~ and present, will follow. When a suite or double . is selected, all roommates MUST be present and sign contracts when the room .(or suite) is chosen. The room or suite will be ·placed back into the lottery if any of the roommates do not sign a con- tract when the room (or suite) is selected. All occupants of a room (or suite) who are found to have cheated will lose any rights to the room or suite. Additionally, the person(s) who cheated will be fined $100. It is important to note that class standing is determined by the number of credits received at the end of winter term-with no exceptions. Also, students must be on-campus residents during the spring term to participate in the lottery. Times and places for the lotteries will be announced in the future. The selection for apartments 3: and singles will be held on May 'i 15. On this night the partments A' will be selected first, then the Singles. The senior with the ~ lowest lottery number and -a present at. the selection will have the first choice of the . Dave Wood, the director of housing No cernil situat stude been Cone< roles exam to be• other respt dram Tht relat teban of t1 rapid two e the tebar know tech1 prod1 Vir the ; solut: last Plan1 subc• all s1 be c invo mon• be in~ the Prof1 was \we guidl pern until \We a S< Prof sitm en tit and; as : sepe Tb of \ com prod this it w dept pro< proc stro1 the' con< proc mOil the Ste< \Ro the the the, pla) Mo1 lOca and Not1 A: teb~ hole I AI Kell With opet Uni< peri Nt with the Clai also that he 1 wor coU. Tl of g is resJ cou schc be SUp] link the him pro: p pra

\ . . OONOOBDIE.NSIS, April 19, 19'19 Page I) Controversy Continues by LAURIE MINTZ No definite solution con- cerning the impending financial situation of the Arts Dept. or the student 'c1ub, Mountebanks,has been reached. In last week's Concordiensis, the intertwined roles of these two entities was examined. They are struggling to become independent of each other and to establish their respective roles in future dramatic productions at Union. The present symbiotic relationship between Moun- tebanks and the drama division of the Arts Department is rapidly coming to a close. The two entities worked together in the past combining Moun- tebanksJ money and Arts Dept. knowledge to produce highly technical and elaborate productions. · Virginia Bush, chairperson of the arts Dept. stated that a solution should have been found last year. At that time the Planning and Priorities Forum subcommittee pointed out that all student tax activities must be controlled by the students involved. The student tax money for Mountebank~ was being used partially to finance the academic arts program. Professor Bush stated that it was immediately evident that \we were operating out of the guidelines\ but she decided to permit the situation to continue until a solution could be found. \We now seem to be working on a solution\ she explained. Professor Bush summarized the situation by saying that the two entities are getting a ~'divorce\ and she referred to Winter term as a \trial separation\ - a seperation that seemed to work. The Winter term production of \Robber Bridegroom\ was completely. an Arts . dept. production. Barry Smith saw this as the \turning point\ for it was the first time that the dept. had entirely funded a production. \This change in procedure ·came about due to a strong disagreement between the dept. and the Mountebanks concerning what play would be produced. A great deal of money had been lost through the Fall production and Steckler's suggestion of \Robber Bridegroom\ entailed the hiring of two fiddlers, thus the Mountebanks chose to let the ArtsDept. take charge of the play. l'he Arts Dept. used Mountebank's equipment lOcated in the Nott for the play, and they obtained keys for the Nott through the Mountebanks. As of this term, the Moun- tebanks are no longer the key- holders for the Nott. According to Dean ·of Faculty, Paula Brownlee, the Nott is an academic building and there is a policy that keys are to be handled by whomever is responsible for an academic building • students cannot be in charge of such a building. The Mountebanks do not seem to be upset by the actual key- transfer·. According to And11ew Wisoff ''the whOle issue of keys is merely symbolic of whQ has control of what goes on in the Nott.\ With . the Acts Dept. trying to establish autonomy over the academic program and with their declaring control over the Nott, the real problem lies in maintenance and control of the equipment which was purchased by student tax money. The Mountebanks control and \own\ everything in the Nott, along with equipment stored in other places. To maintain the equipment costs at a :minimum two to three thousand dollars annually. According to Smith, \the production budget is hurting\ and the Arts Dept. is ·simply not funded for such purposes. It has been suggested that the Mountebanks give or sell, 'for one dollar, everything in the Nott to the Arts Dept. As it stands for next year, the dept. will be budgeted some production money from the College. The Mountebanks will continue to be funded by student-tax money. The key point is that student tax money will no longer be used for jQint productions of the dept. and the Mountebanks. What will happen to the state of these productions at Union remains in doubt. It has been suggested that the Arts dept. handle the Fall and Winter pr9ductions which will be put on in the · Nott, possibly with a small amount of monetary assistance from student tax. Mountebanks, on the other hand, will operate out of the Directors Lab theatre, putting on small, easy, and \lighthearted\ plays. The Mountebanks began as a student club, and have run full circle; they will go oack to being simply an independant club- \a continuation of the high-school theatre . ex- perience\. In the Spring term, however, the Mountebanks will finance plays put on in the Nott by Student Directors who will receive academic credit for the plays. Where will the money from the Arts Dept. productions come from? Dean Brownlee wants both the dept. and the Moun· tebanks to come up with realistic plans for their .future as separate entities. Professor Barry Smiill asks whether or not the college will assume the responsibility for financ~s in the future, and '\what is the role of arts in a li.:beral arts in· stitution?\ One thing is certain and that is that the nature of the dept. and the Mountebanks are changing-student tax will no longer finance an academic .pragram. Dean Brownlee feels that what }las happened is unfortunate. Barry Smith believes that there is no one to .: blame; \What is at stake is ~ much larger''. The Mounw tebanks are c:oncerned over the ~ survival ofthe Drama dept. and s likewise .the Arts dept. is con· ; cerned over the survival .of the IE Mountebank~;.. Both .parties are pushing for immediate resolution. .,.,;w •\ Barry Smittl, drama professor, speaks on the Mountebanks controversy. Possi:ble Tuition Break by RICHARD ROSEN8ERG HowmanyUnion students are paying for three courses, though they may only be taking two or even one course? This question is being asked by a number ()f students, par- ticularly spring term seniors, who have been granted Advanced Placement credit or have taken .additional courses in previous terms. These students are discovering that an obscure Union College policy is costing them hW1dreds of dollars. The policy, as recently expounded by Assistant Dean of Faculty Alan Nelson, is that every student enrolled at Union with full-time status must pay the tuition for a complete term, whether or not she-he is carrying a .full load of courses. (There are rare exceptions, such as students who have taken longer than four years to graduate due to illness, but the policy applies to all students fulfilling requirements within four years at Union). Dean Nelson defends this policy with reference to a memorandum circulated within the administration several Spring Priorities . .. Continued from page 1 amount was justified. Schwarz ·commented that although abolishing in- tercollegiate athletics as the University (){Chicago has done, may not be the most desirable situation, it should be con-. sidered. Nydegger stated that the report spells out the benefits an!j. advantages of an in- tercollegiate sports program, but that Union must seriously address the question of the role and importance of athletics at the College. Cheryl Swanson, Student Forum representative from P&P, then addressed a slightly different problem: There are certain facilities that at the present time are unsafe and are of immedla1e concern. It was agreed that before instituting any new programs such as mandatory physical education, some immediate actions had to be taken al(mg these lines. Professor Schwarz stated his thoughts on P&P's role con- cerning the Athletic Report: 1) simply knowing the contents of the report so that the committee could set priorities accordingly, and 2) providing input to the Drafting Committee as other College constituencies are expected to do. Nydegger said that Division chairmen will be approached by the Drafting Committee for input, and that there will be open meetings so as to receive input from the entire campus conununity. years ago. The memorandum, drafted by an ad hoc ·committee made up of representatives from the offices of the President, Dean of Faculty, Registrar, and Vice-President for budgeting, claims to re- assess the tuition policy. In fact, it merely formalizes the policy without justification. However, two gro1mds are offered by Dean Nelson as justification for the policy. First, students might make unwise decisions concerning their education at Union if they have the option to pay for courses individually. The argwnent presented by Dean Nelson is that if students could pay for one or two courses only, they might choose to carrY four courses during a term (the fourth course is at reduced tuition) simply in order to save' money in their last tenn at Union. In fact, even under the present system some students make this sort of arrangement. Those students who are two courses ahead of schedule can choose to take four courses during a term in order to graduate a complete term early, thus saving an entire trimester's tuition. Second, the bursar makes budgeting projections on the assumption that all full-time students will pay full tuition. Dean Nelson concedes that these justifications do not provide an airtight case for continuing the college's policy and that a call for re- assessment of the policy is on firm ground, though he does not believe that the school should undertake a re-evaluation at present. Dean Of Admissions . • • Nest, Professor Thomas brought up a new issue. He indicated that there was talk of a reorganization of the Dean of Students office, and that an addition tothe staff(possibly an associate dean) may take place. This matter should have come before P&P, because last year the committee passed a resolution to this effect, he said. As far as he knows, no com- mittee on campus has been consulted. He expressed frustration that no member of the administration was present at the meeting. (The President, the Provost, and the Vice- President of College Resources serve on P&P) Thomas stated that at the· next meeting a member of the administration should be present and should explain this situation. The argument in favor of re- assessment and change of the policy is a simple one: The college should not require students who have accumulated additional credits to pay for any courses they are not taking, and do not need to take in order to fulfill graduation requirements. This position does not suggest that students should pay tuition on a course-by-course basis. Rather, it argues that once the college has granted credit toward graduation (such as in the fonn of AP credit or allowing a student to take four courses) it is a contradiction to penalize the student in a later term by requiring the student to pay for an unneccesary course. Continued from page 1 Also notable, according to Kellett, is Nourse's \experience With computerized admissions operations,\ a technique that Union has not as yet ex- perimented with. Nourse's history of working with small priv:ate colleges in the Northeast (RIT, WPI, Clarkson, and Middlebury) is also counted as a credit. It is felt that, through these experiences, he will be well-attuned to the workings and modern needs of a college like Union. The fact that Nourse is a man of great \stature and that he is very \well-known and respected among guidance counselors of secondary schools,\ is also considered to be to his advantage. He is supposed to be effective as a link between high schools and the college, and thus, considers himsell close to the source .of prospective students. Professor Joseph Finkelstein praises Nourse for his \high standards,\ and expresses the assurance that Nourse will display the \energy and commitment to lead us into the decade of the 1980's, Union College's most difficult period for admissions since the Civil War/' The role that Nourse will assume as Dean of Admissions shall differ markedly from that which his forerunner, Shupe, as Director of Admissions, pur- sued. The alteration of the position title from Director to Dean of Admissions is more than a semantic manipulation. It reflects, as Kellett says, the \spirit of the Trustee Sub- committee on Admissions,\ headed by John Davis, which saw the need to vest more authority in the chief ad- missions officer. The proposal for the duties of the Dean of Admissions \makes him a member · of the president's cabinet, and allows him to vote on things that affect admissions,\ according to Kellett. This cabinet inclusion of the chief admissions officer was not fonnerly in practice. According to Finkelstein, this cabinet level status allows the Dean to become \a greater advocate for admissions.\ Also under the proposal, the ''Director (){Finance will report to the Dean of Admissions,\ and so the Dean will be tied into a sector with which his depart- ment is by 11ature closely allied. Moreover, whereas the Director of Admissions was once responsible to the Dean of Students, and, later, to the Provost, the Dean of Admissions will now report directly to the President. And so it is the two ad- ministrative newcomers, President Morris and Dean of Admissions Nourse, who will be directly, and constantly, in contact -when the 1979-80 Thomas then raised the question as to the future of the IEF. (Internal Education Foundation) Professor Reynolds of the Mathematics Department said that he - thought some members of the Board of Trustees were in favor of abolishing it. The budget of IEF is about $100,000, and he said that this amount could be used to balance the budget. He indicated that Dean Brownlee had plans to. argue the case for IEF to the Boards in the future. The next meeting of the Planning and Priorities Committee will be next Wed- nesday at 1 :00 p.m. in Bailey Hall 105. Meetings are open to the College Community. Two weeks ago Jon Tydings, a member of the Educational Policy Committee introduced a proposal that would require a re-evaluation of the Union tuition policy. A sub-committee will be heard shortly. Since this is a policy that affects many students, and will affect mlmy more in the future, it calls for serious re- consideration by the college and m9nitoring by the student body.

Page 6 OONOORDIENSIS~ April 19, 1979 Union Abroad: Two Kibbutzim, One Israel by BARBPLOTKIN aud DANNY WOJNILOWER \Whe~e's Shlomo?\ Moshe, an Israeli native (sabra) and the teacher of a middle level Ulpan class in which students from many countries come together to learn the Hebrew language, would grin widely as the latecomers arrived with steaming cups of tea in hand. Leah, an olive skinned girl recently arrived from Iran, and Eliezer, a scarf laden boy from France would vainly attempt to sneak in behind the teacher and sit down by the kerosene heater warming the cold and damp morning classroom. Both of these students, like many others, were in Israel to stay; the process they had gone through is what Israelis com- monly refer to as \making Aliyah.\ Sarah, an American student from New Jersey, seemingly in a perpetual state of hyperactivity, would then use the first half hour of the lesson elaborating upon a seminar attended or a past Zionist ex- perience, while the other students slowly sipped their tea. Absorbing every molecule of caffeine .from the cups provided the only means of remaining awake at 6:30 or 7:00 in the morning. Stream of con· sciousness thought would continue to flow from numerous mouths and inevitably in the speaker's native tongue, thus giving the other students ample time to skim through '1be Jerusalem Post' and write long· overdue airgrammes before the exercises in intensive Hebrew began. Class would eventually come to a close around 11:00; . however, making an early exodus would often be ac· complished. Luckily, by the time the door to the damp and cold classroom would be opened, the Ulpan students were usually able to move out into the general warmth of the Israeli winter air. This scene is typical of that existing in any Ulpan class on any kibbutz; . yes, even on the two kibbutzirq frequented by the term abroad students from Union College--Beerot Yitz- chak, located in central Israel and only a few minutes from the Ben-Gurion airport and Dovrat, situated in the upper Galilee Valley. BEEROT YITZCHAK Winter term. Israel. Kibbutz. What a great experience; but it was not that way at the start. After we \Beerot Yitzchak six\ split from the'Dovrat thirteen; it took time for us to acclimate ourselves to the new en- vironment. We were in a foreign country, and the diverse group of people our age were to meet had not as yet arrived. If we had been offered plane tickets to the United States during those first few weeks on kibbutz we might-disregarding the embarrassment here--have found ourselves at Union for the middle trimester. What a mistake that would have been! The next eight to ten weeks were simply fantastic. Still, our experience was quite different on Beerot Yitzchak from the one at Dovrat. We were situated within a religious kibbutz. At the outset, we were not exactly sure. what the term religious would mean for us, a non-religious group. Fur- thermore, we wondered how we could best mesh into this agriculturally-based society .. We quickly learned that males were required to wear kepot (head coverings) and that the females were to \dress ap- propriately.\ The food was kosher, and dairy and meat meals were dealt with separately-separate utensils, separate washing, separate everything. Also, our kibbutz had a synagogue. The Sabbath (Shabbat), the Jewish day of rest, was observed according to Orthodox standards. If we were on kibbutz grounds come sundown Friday, it followed that we remained as such until the same time Saturday. No work was performed on the day ofrest excepting duties that can never be neglected, such as the milking of cows and. serving of the Sabbath meals. Sounds rough, huh. Not really, and there was a lot more. The dietary customs were,easy to follow; we ate with the kibbutzniks and ate what was.offered. We spent a number of weekends outside kibbutz and found this a time to see the still searching for their beds after a long night at the 'skellar. Because Kibbutz Dovrat is nonreligious, the UColl students were able to travel on Satur- days to neighboring Nazareth, or Tiberias for Chinese food. The Ulpan students and most kibbutzniks did not work on Saturdays, however those necessary duties such as operating the dining hall, the kibbutz restaurant, and milking the cows ( ! ) were performed by kibbutz m.embers ~on a rotating basis. Basically, the only religious custom observed in the weekly routine of the kib- butz is the Shabbat dinner on Friday nights. There was no synagogue on the kibbutz to attend and as \ •. • clipping turkeJ beaks and watching blood run dou·n )'Our shirt was not an overwhelming favorite.\ country, especially when we had the luxury of Sunday off-. once a month! When on kibbutz, we relaxed in the winter 8-U-N while acquainting ourselves with the other people our age from all around the world: Brazil, Columbia, England, France, Gibraltar, Iran, Rhodesia, Russia, South Africa, the United States and more. Although we spent the majority of our conversation time with our English-speaking friends, we overcame the language barriers by speaking Hebrew, therefore becoming an homogenous group forming bonds of true friendship. Lastly, each of us received a kibbutz family which aided our assimilation into the kibbutz community. Our days on kibbutz were fairly structured. Six days a wee~ we either 1) worked from 7:00-12:00 in the morning and had class in the afternoon from 1:15-4:30 or 2) had class from 7:30-11:15 and worked from 12:00-4:00. The day was long but not all that tiresome as we were virtually exempt from pressure. Class consisted of learning Hebrew through various modes, all of them informal. Three classes existed to accommodate our varied knowledge of the language. Work ranged from hard to easy and from boring to in- teresting. It never became oppressive although clipping turkey beaks and watching blood run down your shirt was not an overwhelming favorite. Males spent the majority of their work hours in the or- chards, artichoke fields and turkey and chicken houses; females worked mainly in the orchards, kitchen and dining room. Israel-the people we met, the places we saw, the things we learned-was fabulous. From Jerusalem to Haifa to Tel Aviv; from the Golon Heights to Masada to Sinai, well, it is really. beyond description. As the end approached we all had some desire to remain but . . . Now we are simply left with fond memories t.o cherish forever. DOVRAT Who wouid•ve believed that thirteen Union students who can barely make it to 9:30 classes this term could have woken up at the crack of dawn to attend dass only three months ago. The Union students who lived on Kibbutz Dovtat t:his past winter telm began their day when Union students back home were soon as the kibbutz members, Ulpan students, and volunteers sat down to Shabbat dinner, it seemed as if someone was standing by with a stopwatch to see how fast they could finish dinner. Though the warm at- mosphere was inviting, it was too rushed. Saturdays would fly as fast as the Shabbat dinners. All too soon, the alarm would ring at 6:00 on Sunday morning, signalling the UColl students to take their cold showers and attend class at 6:30. If classes were attended in the mornings, the Union students worked in the afternoons for three and a half hours. Every two weeks, this routine was reversed. The jobs ranged from the mundane to the type that you would write home about to shock your friends. Two of the latter types of jobs were poisoning caterpillar holes in apple trees and transporting chickens from one coop to another via your hands to ·a truck (the trick is to slip as many chicken legs as you can between each finger in order to carry the most at one •time to the truck). Unfortunately, this results in a lot of cracked chicken bones. Other jobs in- clude laundry, peeling potatoes, radishes, carrots (ever feel like a hwnan Ronco 'slicer-dicer?'), cleaning the childrens' houses, milking cows, teaching tennis, and picking rows upon rows of grapefruits. All of the Union students in the group have their own unique experience con- cerning a job they've done. If you want to speak to them, be on the lookout for :persons with grapefruit branch scratches that run from their wrist to their elbows. Imagine putting these jobs on a resume! Though the jobs themselves were challenging, the most valuable experience gained was getting to know the kibbutzniks themselves. -Many kibbutzniks had pre-conceived ideas about Americans being spoiled and perhaps we are, but it shouldn't necessarily carry negative connotations. The living con- nothing more than a platform with a wooden board and thin · mattress. To keep warm at night, a kerosene heater had to be filled and lit every day. Hot water ran only in the showers and not for very long. Yet the saUsfaction gained from becoming an integral part of Kibbutz lif.e by working their land, speaking their language and getting to know them as more than \·klbbutzniks\, but rather as good friends, make the Jiving quarters appear in- significant When looking back on the experience as a whole~ By the time the Union students were ready to go their separate ways, they had traveled extensively throughout Israel, from the Golan Heights to Ras Muhammad, the southernmost tip of Isreal. The Ulpan for the Union students culminated in the trip to the Sinai Desert. The clear aqua water surrounded by valleys of sand and rocky mountains of pink, brown and beige hues were a precious sight to see. Nights were .spent sleeping on the beach under star-clustered skies with the waves gently lapping the group to sleep. As the sun would set over the charcoal smoked mountains, the group would unload the van and prepare for the nights look- out. Where else but Isreal, -can a \ .. . be on the lookout for persons with grapefruit branch scratches that run fro~ their wrist to their elbow.\ ditions which the Ulpan students lived in were in· comparable to what they are used to )n the States. Beds were cookout consist of cheese, fruit, pita bread and gefilte fish? Israel-a priceless memory that stil! shines hri,ahtlv - ( I Th sele< Mon, plic~ the~ requ Con: Com plic< day~ Tt mitt sett mitt the the For1 the! is V Bod sen Ste' Keri apd Cia~ poir Phi: T Stu• plic Cor Col Ele Stu Spe and the ap~ AdJ Atll CaJ Re, ( cl~ on sm sut Co Ed Aic tur Lil Pr Ad Re of ... B Uni Ca1 esti con C8IJ big En, scil inc offc ~ PlB 40I rna rna ye< mB cer

OONOQRDIENSIS~ April 19, 19\19 Page 7 Committee Selection to Begin on April 23rd The annual committee selection process will begin Monday, Apr. 23 when ap- plications become available in the Student Activities Office. As required by the Committee on Committees' Guidelines for Committee Selections, aU ap- plications must be ~returned 10 days later, on May 4, at 4:30pm. The Committee on Com· mittees (COC) is responsible .for setting guidelines for com- mittee selection and- for doing the actual selection, subject to the approval of the Student Forwn. Serving as chairman of the COC is Murray Levison, who is Vice-President ofthe Student Body. The three other students serving in elected position are: ~teve Grill, Senior Class Rep.; Ken Plumb, Junior Class Rep.; apd Dave O'Connor, Sophomore Class Rep; with the one ap· pointed position held by Mand~ Phillips. · Those committees of the Student Forum for which ap- plications will be taken are Committee on Committees College Center; Concert Elections; Film; Independent Student · Coalition; Social, Speakers Forum; and .Traffic and Pet Court. Committees -of the College Senate for which applications will be taken are: Admissions (class of '80 only); Athletic; Bookstore; Campus; Career Planning; College Resources; Commencement (class of '81 only); Committee _ on Faculty; Conduct Ombud- sman (which is a standing subcommittee of Student Life); Continuing Education; Educational Policy; Financial Aid; Graduate Studies; Lec- tures, Concerts and Films; Library; Planning and Priorities; Presidential Advisory Board; Public Relations; Security; Standing of Students; Student Life; and Supportive Services. A short description of each conunittee, the approximate number of. openings for each committee, and COC's Guidelines will be on displ~y in the Student Activities Office. In addition, members of the COC will be available at least during the noon hour in Student Activities to answer questions. _ Applications for all com- mittees are virtually identical, the only difference being that there wlll be one or two extra questions for the Admissions, Educational Policy, and Planning and Priorities Committees. In addition, ap- plicants who want to serve in special positions on committees must indicate their intentions and explain why they believe they qualify. Such special positions include: represen- tatives to the Student Forum from the 'Student Life, Educational Policy, Presidential Advisory Board, and Planning and Priorities Committees; chairmen of the Conduct_ Ombudsman, College Center, Traffic and Pet Court, and Elections Committees the Social Committee's liaison to the Concert Committee and the Concert Committee's liaison to the Social Committee. In order to speed up the selection process, the COC is requiring that all applicants submit two (2) copies of all applications. No applications are to show the applicant's name; I.D. numbers are to be used instead. If interviews are needed, applicants will be . contacted at a later date. All selections will be announced the last .week of school. Applicants are encouraged to find out as much as they can . a bout the corrunittees for which they are applying. This may include talking to past or current members, or even attending committee meetings. Applicants are reminded that both copies of the application must be returned directly to the Student Activitie~ Office by 4:30 pm, Friday, May 4. Members of the COC and Student Forum are not allowed to tum in any ap- plications other than their own. Anyone with any questions or complaints is urged to contact Murray Levison at 376-6681, Box 1605, or 261 Davidson. W ' omens by PAM RYAN The Women's Network is an organization whose function is to provide a variety of services, both social and informational, to Union Women. The Network serves as a channel of in- formation, maintaining a list of resource people one can contact for information on careers, social services, etc. The .group also has established a small library, located in the Women's Center on the second floor of Carnegie Hall. The Network brings various persons to campus to speak on issues pertaining to women, especially during the annual Women's Week. The role of the organization is primarily social rather than political. Its main purpose is to try to bring together women of va;ious interests, majors, etc. so they may share experiences. It has sponsored a number of speakers, brunches and cocktail parties in the past, and plans to continue to do so. The Network's main project is the yearly Women's Week already mentioned, This year the schedule includes the movie Julia, a volleyball tournan1ent, Job Market Looking Up . Betty Goodman, director of degree candidates at the 161 majority of students Goodman Union College's Placement ~nd col.leges (including Union) reports. \Salary is' not their Career Resources Offtce, whtch were surveyed. Job of- prime concern. More important estimates that . the n~.ber of fers to .ser:tio;s ~ business- is what they will be doing and company recrwters v1S1tmg the related disc1phnes mcreased 18 where they will be working.\ campus this year is 25 per cent per cent, and offers to those in Nationally humanities and high.er ~han last year's. scientific disciplines increased social scien~e majors received Engmeermg and computer 17 per cent. nine per cent fewer offers this science majjors have been most The highest average starting year. Recruiting for humanities in demand, sh~ said, and ~lary ~alary, $1,788 per mont~ offe~ed and social science majors in- offers have r1sen accordingly. m the petroleum engmeermg creased somewhat, but the Nationally, the College field, is eight per cent higher demand continued to lag behind Placement Council reports that than the average offer last year that for engineering and science 40 per eent more job offers were in that field. The next highest majors, Goodman said. made to senior engineering offer--$1,633 for chemical Chairman of the Committee on Commi-ttees, Murray Levison Week 1979 a cocktail party, serveral speakers, and a variety of other events of interest to men and women alike. Most of these are free of ch8rge, and the entire community is encouraged to attend. The Women's Netowrk meets Friday afternoons at 12:30 in Strauss Lounge, Anyone in- terested is welcome to attend. · Women's Week Sc!hedule Fri. April 20-Coffeehouse- Barb Paradowski--singer pianist performing folk tunes and oldies but goodies-8:00p.m. Cabaret room $1 for music, coffee, tea, and doughnuts. Come and have a good time. Sat. AprU 21-Cocktail Party- 3:()()..5:00 in Strauss Lounge. Mixed drinks and munchies. Open to all students faculty, and staff. Hope for nice weather. Sun. Aprll 22--Bruncb-11:00 a.m.-1:00 p.m. in Hale Lower Lounge. A discussion will be led by Women Faculty Members- coffee and pastries will be served. Big Bro-Big Sis Movie: \Hunted in Holland\. Open to young and old alike-- refr-eshments will be served and admission is free. Mon. April 23--Speaker-- · Margaret Pickie Uroff, Prof. of English at University -of Dlinois. Topic: \Sylvia Plath and Ted Hughes.\ 4:30 p.m. Strauss Lounge Refreshments will be served Volleyball Tournament-7 :00 p.m.-9:00 p.m. in the Fieldhouse. Preliminary games. Refreshments will be served. Come and cheer your team on. Tues. April 24--Volleyball Finals-7:00 p.m.-9:00 p.m. in the Fieldhouse. Refreshments will be served and prizes will be awarded to the winning team. Tues. April 24·-BSA & Women's Network-8:00 p.m. Memorial Chapel--Brenda Eichel berger-lecture. Wed. Aprn 25-Informatfonal Session--Alliance for Reproductive ·Freedom will present information on abortion and the status of the planned Abortion Clinic in Schenectady. 7:()()-8:00 p.m. in Lower Hale House Lounge. Intellectual Cabaret-Topic: The Status of Women in Foreign Countries-informal discussion, wine and cheese will be served. 8:00-9:00 p.m. in Cabaret room. Thurs. April 26-- lnformational Session-Ame- rican Association of University Women--Karen Watson and Mary Liz Leitch of the Schenectady Chapter will host the session. 10:00 a.m.-1:30 p.m. in Strauss Lounge-- Refreshments will be served. Cabaret-The Acts will be Verna Lowe & Pat Condello and Judy Kottke & Jazz Band Shows are 9 & 11 p.m. FrJ. Aprll 27-8peaker and Poet-Toni Morrison-12:30-1:30 in Strauss Lounge. Workshop and reading Women's Glee Club Concert- 8:00p.m,. in Memorial Chapel. All are invited to attend the wine & cheese reception directly following the concert in Strauss Lounge. Sat. April 28--Life After Union-Class of '78 will be sharing their experiences of career planning and job hun- ting. Barbara Flynn from the New York State Education Department will be the main speaker. Events are schedllled for all day Sat. in Strauss Lounge. April 27, 28, & 29-The film \Julia\ will be shown on campus in SS 016, check for exact times. majors than by the same time a engineering-also is nearly eight year ago. Offers to engineering per cent higher. majors accounted for 61 per At Union, salary is not the Composers Forum Opens April 20 cent of all offers to bachelor first consideration for the Jewish Student Org.-Hillel presents A Sunday Brunch Sunday,April22, 1979 frorn 11:00-12:00 food will be served at l2:0Q Guest Speaker Hesh Morgan of The Anti Missionary Institute will speak on ''Cults and Missionary Groups'' Admission $1 .. 00 J.S.O.-Hill.el members for Brunch: $2.0QNon-members Six works by three composers highlight the American Com- posers' Forwn concert Friday, April 20 in Union College's Memorial Chapel. Three of the works will receive their first public performance. The program includes \Five Bagatelles,\ for piano, and \Cyclorama\ for cello, by Alison Nowak; \Homegrown\ for piano, and \Six Excerpts from Requiem Ballad,\ by Sarah Meneely-Kyder; and \Momenti for piano, and \Quartet for Brass,, by Vi van Fine. \Five Bagatelles\ will be given its first public per- formance by pianist Lionel Nowak, a Bennington College faculty member and father of the composer; and \Cyclorama\ will be given its premiere by cellist Michael Finckel, also a Bennington faculty member .. \Meneely-Kyder will perform her own work, \Homegrown.\ The \Six Excerpts\ will be performed by Denise James, soprano; Judith Williams, piano; and The Emma Willard Choir, with Russell F. Locke, conductor. Pianist Carole Friedman -will perform Vivian Fine's \Momenti.\ Fine's second work, \Quartet for Brass,\ in another premiere, will be performed by the Metropolitan Brass Quartet, which includes Douglas Hedwig, trumpet; Kristian Solem, trumpet; WHliam Parker, horn; and Bruce Bonvissuto, tromlxme. Tickets, available at the door the night of the concert, are $4 to the general public and $2 to students. Jewish Student Organization-Hillel presents A Film \The Garden of the Finzi-Continis\ Monday. April 23, 1979 SS 016 at 7:30 p .. m. J.S.O.-Hil'lel members Free Non-members 50¢

Page 8 CONCORDIENSIS, Ap~l 19 1 1919 ------------------------------------------------~·----------------~--------------------------------------------------~---- culture . ': - ... · ........ Brass Construction to appear ton·ight. arts 'BSA Presents: ;Brass Construction The group Brass Construction will perform at Memorial Chapel at 8 p.m. Thursday, April 26,. under the sp<>nsorship of the Union College Black Student Alliance. Tickets are $4 with a Union College I. D., or $6 to the general public. Tickets for Union students .are available at the student activities office .. Brass Construction is one of the most exciting _bands yet to merge from New York's thriving music scene, which has been turning out a new wave .of hit- making bands and creating a . new sound for the seve!lttes. Brass Construction is riding high on the crest of that wave. The band has seen a lot since it's beginning in Brooklyn's notorious Brownsville sectton; .a junior high school group who stuck to music as a way to escape the streets and stay out of trouble. They gained el!;- perience and grew together by working basement parties, school dances and street festivals, establishing tllem- selves Qy playing Top 40 while they tightened their act and preparedfortnetime wnen they could showcase their own original and highly infectious brand of music. Their first two releases on United Artists Records, Brass Construction I & II, were both million sellers. Brass soared to the top across the cauntry with their hit single, \Movin\, and from th.e evidence of their latest albLUn, Brass Construction III, they are likely to remain there for some time. Mi·ller's Madness: M'urd~er • l'n the·N,Ott Brass Construction performs with a formidable nin-man line- up. Writer-arranger-singer and spokesman Randy Muller, 23, of Guyana South America heads the crew. Randy plays keyboards, flute, steel drurris, bass, and guitar. Joining Randy and his varied and impressive musical talents are: Wade Williamston, 23, on sax and guitar; Joseph Arthur-Wong, 25, on guitar; Morris Price, 20, on trwnpet and percussion; Wayne Parris, 21, on trumpet; Larry Payton, 21, on the drums; Sandy Billups, 21, a .per- cussionist; Jessie Ward, 21, on tenor .sax; and, Mickey Grude, 23, also on the sax. \People are dying in the Nott virtually every day. I mean, I don't see why you're so upset. If sornebody's doing a scene in a play, and that particular scene calls for the actor to take a drink of water, wait a few seconds, grab his or her throat, make odd gurgling noises and keel over backwards all floppy- legged, why, that's obviously because the playwright wanted that particular character to quote-unquote die at that particular juncture of the play.\ I was unimpressed with the babe's logic, but her hips moved around with a kind of Kafkaesque casualness that was hard to say no to. \Look miss, we're not talking about play-acting. Barry Symonds was here yesterday, and now he's gone.\ I paused for effect; the effect was wasted. Whatever she knew, she wasn't buying what I had to sell, which wasn't worth Burt Lance's credit ata Newark · five and dime, and even if it was, she was slipperier than a greased worm in a mud puddle, and twice as cute. No, make that more than twice. Make that thrice. She was wearing a tight, low- cut evening dress that hugged her curves closer than a new set of Michelins stick to the Nor- thway, and speaking of sets, her entire upper body bespoke the kind of Boolean Algebra I never got in college math. Tougher than a cobra's grandma and cooler than fuzzy dice, she was playing it close to the chest, and the closer she played it, the more I felt like kibbutzing. ''Hmm . . . Barry Symonds. Barry ... Symonds-\ I slapped her once, hard. She didn't like that, and the next thing I felt was a hard neoprene high-heel in the groin. I might be a cop, but I'm human, too. I screamed bloody murder from a fetal position. \I'm sorry I kicked you so hard,\ she said, unscrewing her Buster Brown from my mid- section. \Ulk I said weakly, not dar.ing to move. This babe was dangerous. \I confess, I confess; I did it!\ she sobbed hysterically. \But I had to, don't you see& He was ... he was ... \ \He was what, lady~\ \He was giving me a hard time. I told him to have his lines memorized by the 28th, and he said that he had some silly fraternity thing to do all next week, so we started fighting- Yelling and screaming and \Ten Little Indians\ cast A Special Event by West College Aprill9 shows at 9 & 11 Tickets on sale 8 p.m. at Carnegie throwing things ... and then I. .. \ \And you what, sweetheart?\ I shot back, my rumpled raincoat inching nervously up my spine as my investigative hackles rose. \1-I .... Iocked him in the stage manager's office overnight. I didn't mean to, but I guess I sort of got carried away.\ \You didn't 'kill him?\ \What .she exclaimed in- creduiously, \and then have to go through all the bother of notifying Actor's Equity?\ \Okay lady, open it up.\ She complied, and when I peeked around the door, I saw one very sloshed Barry Symonds, male rural Caucausian, asleep on the floor with an empty bottle of White Tavern Gin between his legs (\left over from the latest cast party I'm afraid.\). I shut the door. It wasn't a very pretty sight \I suggest you sober hinl up,\ I told her. She .fluttered her baby blues at me, and :for a moment Time stood still. My throat had a lump in it bigger than Watervliet, and as she moved closer towards me, [ felt my night-stick poke me hard against the ribs. ''How can I ever thank you for being so patient,\ she whispere~ into my hat, which not coincidentally covered my ears. \Just doing my job,\ I said roughly, and hating myself for it. \By tqe way, what play is Mr. Symonds in this term?\ \Why Agatha Christie's Ten Little Indians, of course.\ As I turned to leave, she grabbed me gently by the collar. \Would YDU like some comps for opening night?\ \No thanks, Miss Rubin. And . .. happy directing.\ The creative explosion that is Brass Construction continues to expand. Brass has worked with such established names as K.C. and the Surishine Band, Wild Cherry, The Jacksons, The Emotions, Parliaments and others. Brass Construction III is a certified gold smash with \Top of the World\ written by Wong and Grudge, one of their biggest singles ever. Roxy Reunited by PURE BOB BLAKE After sev~ral years apart the Allman Brothers and Roxy Music have reformed, trying to The Film Committee presents: Which Way Is Up? Fri. Sat. Sun. Shows at 7, 9 & 11 p.m. on Sat. & Sun. at 10 p.m. Fri. and Flesh Gordon Tues, April 24 at 9 & 11 p.m. stage a comeback with new albums and new tours. While apart, the members of each band chose to pursue solo careers which although produced some fine albrun.s, failed to give the individual members much commercial success, or produce work.()f the quality of their former groups. Upon their reformation both groups have returned with personnel changes that bave altered their sound. For the Allman Brothers, the addition of new members Dan Toles and David Goldflies on lead and bass guitars, along with old stablemates Dicky Betts, Greg Allman, Jaimoe Johanson, and Butch Trucks, and with the omission of a second keyboard player, has resulted in a return to the sound and style of their initial period. Their new album, Enllgbtened Rogues, is largely a blueshased album with the major.ity of songs composed by Dicky B;etts. Tiie new albwn shows the Allmans in top form. Except for the instrwnental \Pegasus\, , the songs are constructed of lyrical sections interwoven with guitar /breaks. Although the lyrics are of the typical, banal, \My baby left me'' blues variety, the instrwnentals are consistently fine, the guitarists often going for as much feel and melQdY, as well as speed and raunch in their solos. Also of note is the guitarists' masterflll slide guitar playing, wbich attributes to the album's sound being reminescent of the earlier work of the Allmans. Enlightened Rogues is an excellent albwn showing the ~llman Brothers doing what they do best. They are ap- proaching the blues and southern. rock in novel ways, with unsurpassed musicianship, that still makes them the most influential and foremost band from the South. For Roxy Music, new member Gary Tibbs on bass, and the elimination of a per- manent. keyboard player has resulted in a much thinner and sparser sound for a group often noted for the lavishness and complexity of their productions ..- and arrangements. I feel this is due to the playing of the session musicians on keyboards. They simply do not fill the gap left by the experimental approach of · Brian Eno, nor do they match the technical virtuosity of his replacement, Eddie Jobson (Now of U.K.). Also noticeably missing is Jobson's electric violin playing, which was very much a part of the group's mid- period music. Despite a thinner sound the new album, Manifesto, is no less provocative and entertaining than any of their previous L.P.'s. The band has divided the new L.P. in two parts, a \West Side\ and an \East Side\. The \East Side\ shows the ex- perimental and futuristic side of Roxy Music, while the \West Side\ presents a series of far more conventional songs similar in style to the songs on Siren; their most commercial L.P. Hopefully by displaying both directions of their music, Manifesto will appeal to all factions of Roxy's audience. On the whole, Manifesto is one of Roxy's most consistently fine albums, as Bryan Fe1·ry, Phil Manzanera, Paul Thompson, and Andy Mackay once agaiQ pool their collective talents that make up this most unique and throughly provocative band. at1 Ur While : campus v and Pass, Club tra' Massachu the \Thi Festival< Harvard This pa College C direction Wilson;. t1 under the Marvin; Illinois ' Club, un William< twoconcE in conten and trad Friday devoted music. works of Thompso Whalum, Harvard by Koda Poulenc, Sa turd< the Har· was bas theme. 1 repetoirE Genet, DeBussy Prez. A bridge lV group, s w Well, Glad yo of our albums As you~ variety. new art: comme 'Album of this it's Mar Angel night, l Lewis. \You'rt Sa

OONOORDIENSIS, April19, 19\19 Page 9 arttJ culture Union Men Sing On While much of the Union campus went home for Easter and Passover, the Men's Glee Club travelled to ·Cambridge, Massachusetts, to participate in the \Third Annual Harvard Festival of Men's Choruses\ at Harvard University. This past weekend, the Union College Glee Club, under the direction of Prof. Hugh Allen Wilson; the Harvard Glee Club, under the direction of Jameson Marvin; and the University of Illinois Varsity Men's Glee Club, under the. direction of William Olson, each performed two concerts of their specialties in contemporary, Renaissance, and traditional men's music. Friday evening's concert was devoted to contemporary music. Union opened . with works of Jenkins, Davye, V. Thompson, Debussy, Thiman, Whalum, ·Fast, and Forbes. Harvard followed with pieces by Kodaly, Binkerd, Britten, Poulenc, Cowell, and Milhaud. Saturday evening's concert at the Harvard-Epworth Church was based on a Renaissance theme. Harvard performed a repetoire of such composers as Genet, Agricola, Gastoldi, DeBussy, Ockeghem, and des Prez. Afterwards, the Cam- bridge Men's Cappella, s small group, sang \Lamentations of Jeremiah\ by G.P. da Palestrina and \Agnus Dei from 'Missa Mater Patris\ by Josquin des Prez. The University of lllinois closed with William Byrd's \Mass for Three Voices.\ The Festival culminated at Sanders Theater with a concert oftraditional music. Union sang works of Brumel, des Prez, Morley, Dowland, Banchieri, Schubert, and C.V. Stanford. The Cambridge Men'sCappella performed des Prez's \Credo from 'Missa Mater Patris\ and Tallis' \Agnus Dei from 'Mass for Four Voices,\ and lllinois closed. the Festival with pieces by Romer, Persichetti, Shaw- Parker, Track, Schubert, Marschner, Thompson, Richardson, Mechem, Heath, Hairston, and Cat Stevens- Harry Simeone. The Harvard Festival was a great success. Not only did the three groups enjoy each other's music, but they individually offered an increased awareness of college life at other schools. Plans are already .being made for a joint concert with Harvard to occur sometime next year. On Saturday, April 28, the Union Glee Club will be featured in \Massed Concert '79,\ an aggregate performance of the Mohawk~Hudson Male Chorus Association sponsored by the Mendelsohn Club of Albany, at 8 p.m. in the Main Theater of the Convention Center (the EGG) of the Empire State Plaza. General admission is $3. On Sunday, May 6, the Union College Men's and Women's Glee Clubs will perform a Parents Weekend concert in the Memorial Chapel at 1:00 p.m. The public is invited. Barb Paradowski Coffeehouse Relocated A special treat is in store for you this Friday evening, April 20 - it's the Union College Coffeehouse!! This weekend we are proud to present Barb Paradowski, a vocalist-pianist performing folk tunes and \oldies but goodies.\ Barb has appeared at Mother's Wine Emporiwn on the RPI campus and recently at the Cafe Lena in Saratoga Springs, to name a few local spots. But, due to circumstances beyond our control, this week ONLY Cof· feehouse will be held in the Cabaret room on the first floor of Carnegie Hall. The price is the same - $1 - and the refresh- ments are the same - coffee, tea, lemonade, donuts and Irish Coffee - and the time is the same - 8:30 p.m. The only difference is the place ·- Cabaret. So come and join us for an enjoyable evening of music, food and fllll!! What a great way to kick off Women's Week. And also - on Friday, May 4, Coffeehouse will present a special show for Parent's Weekend. Paul Straussman, a Boolc Review: folk guitarist, will be per- forming. The show will be at 8:30 p.m. in the Old Chapel, BUT tickets must be purchased in advance ·in the Student Activities Office. They still are the bargain price of $1.00, but only 100 tickets will be on sale. So get yours now - your parents will enjoy the Union College Coffeehouse for a relaxing evening of good music and fresh Irish Coffee. Ultimate Challenge A Book by Joel Homer Ever since the Munich Olympic Games, when Frank Shorter became the first American in 64 years to bring home a gold medal in the marathon, the sport has become virtually a national passion. By 1978, the marathoner's ranks had so swollen, in fact, that 12,000 runners competed in the New York marathon (up from a paltry 126 in 1970), as several hundred thousand more cheered them on. What was once a solitary athletic en- deavor has clearly becom~ a major sporting even enjoyed by ·many thousands-competitors and spectators alike-all over the country. Gras, Honolulu, Jersy Shore, Pikes Peak, Fukuoka, Nike (Oregon), Western Hemisphere (California), and the Olympics. Come and help Nelson Dubrow celebrate Fitz Hugh Ludlow Day Saturday April 21-Library Field. MARATHONS: THE ULTIMATE CHALLENGE is a unique-look at this phenomenon, including the most challenging marathons and the best runners. Featured are such champions as Frank Shorter, Bill Rodgers, Derek Clayton, Ted Corbitt, Jack Foster, and Grete Waitz. Also the great marathons: Boston, New York City, Mayor Daley (Chicago), San Francisco, A von (Atlanta), Maryland, Orange Bowl (Miami), San Diego Mission Bay, Seattle, Mardi For each race, the qualities that give the course its special character and how it is ap- proached by America's 'best mak-athoners are discussed. A visual ·celebration as W~ll as guide for practical information, it includes: a course map, climate conditions, special h~arA&, recent winners and their · times •. Instructions for entering are also given, along with a history of the marathon, an analysis of the competitive spirit that brings people together, a comprehensive listing of the best marathoners of all time-in other words, nearly everything one could want to know about this, the ultimate challenge. What's Playing On WRUC Twenty color and thirty black and white photos make the book as visually exciting-almost-as a marathon itself. Well, what does WRUC play? Glad you asked. Below is a list of our twenty most-played albums for the period Apr. 2-11. As you can see, there is a lot of variety. We try to feature good new artists who don't get a lot of commercial attention. Our 'Albwn at Ten' feature is a part of this philosophy. This week, it's Manfred Mann's Earthband Angel Station; this Friday night, we'll feature Jerry Lee Lewis. \You're Never Alone with a .. .,\ Ian Hunter; \Enlightened Rogues,\ Allman Brothers; \Breakfast in America,\ Supertramp; \Anned Forces,\. Elvis Costello; \A Tonic for the Troops,\ Boomtown Rats; \Rickie Lee Jones,\ Rickie Lee Jones; \Minute by Minute,\ Doobie Brothers; \George Harrison,\ George Harrison; \Look Sharp,\ Joe Jackson; \Mirror Stars,\ Fabulo·us Poodles; Rock Billie Boogie,\ Robert Gordon; \Squeezing out Sparks,\ Graham Parker; In Honor of Fitz Hugh Ludlow Day Union College Concert & Socia I Committees present, in concert Jonathon Edwards & Comedian David Sayh Saturday. April 21 9:00 p.m. Memorial Chapel 50~ with Union I.D. ''Who Are You,\ Who; ''Back to Earth,\ Cat Stevens; \At Budokan,\ Cheap Trick; \Back in Your Life,\ Jonathan Rich- man.& M.L.; \Danger Money,\ U.K.; \Outlandos d'Amour,\ Police; \Queen of Fools,\ JennY. Darren; \Live Kenny Loggins. The rain THE SMILE Pounded out its staccato beat In the courtyard. Its cool grayness only intensified The brightness of the smile you wore. I looked at the brightness, PUBUCATION DATE: June 1, 1979 PRICE: $7.95 paperback (Doubleday-Dolphin) PAGES: 96 Includes 50 photographs As we lay together smrounded by gray And saw the bright spill and quickly spread. First as a sparkle to yom eyes, Then gently rushing, as rain to the courtyard, The brightness filled the room And lit the corners of my mind. Now even the rain Sparkles fiercely. V.J.E. Please submit all poems for Fine Lines to Jan DeDeka, Fine Lines Edit~r, Box 1388. (Submissions may be anonymous.)

Page 10 Fund Raising Auction Parents' Weekend Sunday, May6,2:00 p.m. Achilles Rink Sponsored By-- Delta Gamma Sorority and Sight Conservation and Aid to the Blind Do you have any merchandise that you wish to sell or get rid of? Let us help you out! ... Call Mona at 370-6519. 11 Have Gavel Will Travel 11 Admit Oae w/College I. D. Jlay Wecbiesday or Friday ia April L---------------------------J OONOORDIENSIS, April 19, 19\19 Nuclear SympoSium Held by ANDY WEITZMAN and GARY BOWITCH On Apr. 17, the Physics Club and the Student Environmental Alliance sponsored a nuclear energy SYmposium with the intent of ,providing information regarding the scientific and economic facets of nuclear power. The four speakers present -were Dr. Henry Hurwitz from G..E, Research and Develop- ment; Dr. Robert Gay, a nuclear ·engineer from R.P .1.; Dr. Jolm Matuzakfromthe New- York State Health Department Radiological Sciences Lab; and Mr. John Maveratich, a full- time employee of the Mid Hudson nuclear opponents. To a crowd of about 100 students and faculty, Dr. Gay outlined the basic principles of an operating nuclear pow~r. plant. He emphasized that the major safety requirement of these plants is that the heat generated by the reactor core be equalled by the heat removal capacity of the cooling systems. Accidents which can cause an imbalance in this heat transfer How to find a summer job;. Talk to Manpower. We've got summer job opportunities for office temporaries. Typists, stenos, receptionists, and more. Work as much as you want. Or as little. It's up to you. There's a Manpower office almost anywhere you're spending the summer. Stop in and we' II plan a job schedule for you. QM.~ER~ An equal opportunity employer equiHbrimn. involve increases in the heat produced and-or faulty ceoling capacity due to loss of reactor coolant water. Dr. Gay pointed out that nuclear reactors are carefully designed to shutdown quickly in case of any major emergencies. Although the reaction ceases, the radioactive materials still generate large amoUJlts of heat maintaining the necessity of beat removal. The Nuclear Regulatory Commission (NCR) is responsible for enforcing safety regulations which are designed to prevent these ac- cidents. The second speaker. Dr. HurWitz, felt that the NRC was not sufficiently enforcing these regulations. He felt that many .of the people in the c()mmission are not nuclear 'experts' but are rather, as he cans them, 'clowns.' Dr. Hurwitz, who won the Ernest Lawrence Award for qesigning the containment structure which surrounds the nuclear core. systematically outlined the cau~es for the accident at Three-mile Island. Although the .initial pro_blein was minor. the failure of certain back-up systems, combined with hwnan error. es()alated the severity of the situation. In addition, one emergency system was inoperative due. to repairs at the time. The next speaker, Dr. Matuzak, gave a brief description of radiation and its effects upon the environment. He brought.to lightthe fact that there exist many sources of natural radiation in the en- vironment. This radiation, .he feels, is comparable to the levels experienced by the inhabitants in the.vicinity of the Three-mile Island reactor. The last speaker, Mr. John Maveratich, began with an economic analysis of the possible filtlire need for nudear power in New York State. His conclusion was that no nuclear power plants nee(! be con- structed. His claims run counter to the needs projected by the electric power com- panies. Mr. Maverati'ch believes that the power com- panies' assessment of the future electrical needs are based upon faulty assumptions. He . stated that future electrical con- swnption can be provided for without nuclear power Wltil the year 2000. He commented that ·this allows for the development of alternate energy sources. He also noted that a major· portion · of our energy uses do not depend upon electricity, thus raising the question of the necessity for nuclear power. A fiery question and answer session followed the lectures. Some of the issues raised were the problems of nuclear waste disposal; the possibility of the solar energy alternative; safety vs. the vested interests of the power companies. Although much was said little was really resolved. Carnegie Restructured? by MELISSA CRAGIN . In their past few meetings, the College Center Committee has put together some \sub- stanti~l and popular ideas for the College Center, .. says the report to the committee from its head, Debbe Damrell. Since October, this committee, which is a sub-committee of the Student Forum, has been working on a proposal to im- prove the use of Carnegie Hall in order to make it more func- tional for a greater number of student groups. Some of the ideas that have been listed call for expanding the game ropm and possibly putting in backgammon tables; and for opening a lounge area with a concession stand. A specific area for Performing Arts is in the plans, which would be open for theater, dance, Glee Clubs and Jazz Ensemble rehearsals. Another idea in the works is to construct multi- purpose meeting rooms; they would hold sliding walls and movable furniture. Trustees • • • Continued from page 3 individuals who make out- standing contributions to the College and may be consulted by the Board of Trustees when necessary. A report on the progress of the growth of the nucleus fund for the campaign for the Union endowment drive will be given. '\ The Buildings, Grounds and Equipment Committee will continue its ongoing study of physical plant maintenance. Topics slated for discussion include alternate use of facilities during tbe athletic field renovations and general deferred tnaintenan()e projects. Special consideration will be In speaking with Dean Kellett about future ideas, he said that no formal plans have been drawn up, nor have any decisions been made. He said that \the basis of allocation of space to groups will depend upon how much and what kind of space needs will actually be required by the groups requesting it,\ according to the recommendations of Damrell's committee; and that ·''some commitment to longer term planning\ will be necessary. When asked about the Student Tax Committee's involvement here, Dean Kellett said that \the only present tie-in with tax is if there are monetary allocations to groups to maintain facilities!' The dean plans to have his office situated in Carnegie next year, as be feels this is necessary for greater student access.Debbe Damrell said that the students she spoke with agreed with this, and would like to see the dean himself more visible. Dean Kellett added. \we want to do as much as we can for the student body.\ given to recent complaints concerning the conditions in the Social Sciences and Humanities Buildings. An Energy Con- servation report will also be presented. The primary role of the Board of Trustees is to review the activities of the College over the past few months to ensure the smooth operation and financial stability of the institution. On the whole, the April meeting calls for the disposal of a great deal of routine business. Most of the issues have been reviewed by the interested on-campus groups and need only to be formalized by Board action. ·F· • I~ Continue conditior Rink w; generall: recomrr vestigati for the recogniz as there down to·., Gener, the con: 'They fi1 structim facility~ and D~ facility weathe1 tramur~ track, bleacheJ prioriti building with a , tank, b~ squash facility athletic wrestli11 multipu well af sauna. The 1 party 1 coming the Del at the Muse Associc donatio entry fc extrav~ will be and U ternoor Sunday here, morn in ning di prizes well chuggi.J ice ere assortE Thei availal EU Tr Free! aboL expe That we'r, Ta your wort AI optic the c villa~ Gre; Rus: lndi, dele ( cole DYe abo: INrEI 5011 New (212: N11r 1\d( Tele 1 Sd --- ..

, OONOORDIENSIS, Arpil 19, 197~ Field Reconstructions Continued on page 1 condition. The state of Acllilles Itink was also found t() be generally good. The committee recommended that in· vestigation into alternate uses for the rink, because they recognize the area competition as there will be a new rlhk in downtOWn Schenectady. General recommendations of the committee were multiple. They first suggested the con· struction of a new outdoor facility on the site of Alexander and Daley Fields. Sucn a facility would include an all weather football field, in- tramural and' practice ·fields, a track, and permanent bleachers. Second on this list of priorities sug:gested is the building · of an indoor facility with a swimming pool, diving tank, basketball, .handball, and squash courts. This proposed faeility would also. include athletic department offices, a wrestling room, a weight room, multipurpose activity rooms, as well as a steam room and sauna. Additional recommendations included the renovation of Garis field and the construction of other athletic fields. It was also suggested that a key. item of annual maintenance of facilities be added to the Athletic Department budget. the committee touched upon other important matters in their discussion of athletics at Union. It was their observation that the movement towards an equalization of men's and women's roles in sports at Union was well underway. Their recommendations sought an increase in improved scheduling, and more publicity for sports involving Union women. They praised . the at- tempt so far to equalize the roles and suggested that the continuing. support ·of the Athletic Department was necessary in maintenance of such a prograDn. Noting an increased role of intramural sports in school • athletics the committee sup- ported a plan to form an Intramural Athletic Council. A council such as this would consist of thirteen students as well as a Coordinator of lntramurals. The committee also recommended investigation into the possibility of a physical education requirement. This, they felt, could be looked upon in the spirit of a Liberal lear- ning requirement and would insure all Union students were benefiting from some aspect of physical education while at Union. With league membership still a question, since Union's with~ drawal from the New England Small College Athletic Con- ference in 1977, the .committee recommended th~t Union retain their current status as an in- dependent. The committee also advised that frequent re- examination of non-league membership take place. . . Finally, the report also suggested the hiring of ~ full time sports information director, to be placed under the Director of Athletics, in order to insure full coverage of the expanding athletic program at Union. Dance-a-thon The longest continuous band party to hit this Campus is coming this weekend. Party at the Delta Chi Dance-a-thon and at the same time· benefit Muscular Dy s t r·op hy Association with your $1.00 donation that will allow you entry for the endurance of this extravaganza. Four live bands will be rockin on Friday night and throughout Saturday af- ternoon and evenin~ into eaFly this campus is going to party this weekend and just might drink them up. A lot of people have donated their time to provide you with a good time when-you stop by. You say like jugglers and magicians? We have them on Saturday. Come by and have a good time. It's on us and for Muscular Dystrophy. There's still time to dance. Contact Delta Chi (382-8973). It will not be known for quite some time the full effects these proposals will have upon athletics at Union. It is hoped that they will bring about some sort of change toward im- provement of the existing athletic facilities at Union. ~ ~~~~~~ ~-~~~-~~-- -...~ ~-...~-..,~ ~ .... Sunday morning. WWOMwill be • here, live, early Saturday morning for some early mor- Forever Young Hair Design 7 41 Eastern Avenue (short walk from College) ning disco. There will be door prizes given away hourly as well as prizes for beer • chugging, bubble gum blowing, ice cream eating, and other < ~ assorted good contests. < ~ There are thirty kegs , available but I feel secure that ADVENTURI: EUROPE AND BEYOND! Traveling the open road. Freestyle. There's something about it that means the best experiences you'll ever have That's the kind of vacation we're offering you Take a modem coach. add young people from all over the world, and hit the road. And you have over thirty options of which road to hit the glamour cities and colorful villages of the real Europe. the Greek Islands. Scandinavia, Russia, the Middle East. Africa. lndia ... city to city, detail to detail, adventure to adver1ture Call or write for our free full· color brochure. ~-------------------- 1 OYeal Send m~ mor~ lnfonnal'on 1 about Adv~ntureWorld 791 I INrER COLLEGIATE HOLIDAYS INC 1 1 501 Madison Avenue New York. N Y 10022 (212) 355-4.705 Nam~-· ____ -· ---- 1 Addre11 ------ I I I I T~lephone I I 1 School 1 -------------.-------- 382-8490 Specialist in Precision Cuts for Women & Men Henna, Perms, Frost, Color Reasonable Rates Open Tues.- Sat. Flexible Hours Call Now For Your Spring Style! Many to Choose From. ~~-- ... ~ ... ~~ ... ~ ............ .· ... ;. ···~·-~': Lake Pladd home-.. your Pa~e 11 Careers in Healt·h Planning & Policy What: Informal Talk Who: Prof. Eugene Schneller Where: Bailey Hall, Room 310 When: April 26, Thursday 3:30 p.m. The .purpose of the program is to expose students to the va.riety of opportunities in health planning and health systems administration and to provide a guide to federal and state health systems agencies. The following topics wil'l be covered: 1. Health planning and-or poljcy 4. Bio statistics 2. Health Systems management 5. Epidemiology 3. Medical sociology Natural science majors and social science m.ajors are particu·larly urged to attend. For further information, contact Yungwha Min at p.cR. Refreshments wi U be served. • Bome to Borne(/ 4Ria8ummer Where else can you polish your writing skills and learn to use a computer or be in an under· graduate prelaw program and take a course in ·intaglio printing? Where else can you Interact with so diverse a group of faculty and students in a uniquely attractive setting of hills, lakes, gorges, and waterfalls? Here at Cornell, you can fulfill requirements, complete courses In order to accelerate, or simply take the time to study those appealing things for which you've never before had the time. Request an Announcement and see for yourself all the reasons why Cornell is where you should be this summer. Cornell University Summer Session, 111 Day Hall, Ithaca, New York 14853, 1980

Page 1.2 Bobsled The progress of the ex .. perirnental bobsled developed here by the American Bobsled Research Association will be the topic of a meeting at 8 p.m., Friday, April 20 at the college. The meeting will be held in the Bobsled laboratory, Room NllO, Science and Engineering. Center. Anyone interested in the bobsled is invited to attend. OONOORDIENSJS, April 19, 1979 1:00.2:00 --Liberal Education as a Preparation for Medical School. Dr. Willard Roth BU 204. -Nuclear Power, Pros and Cons. Dr. Ennis Pilcher BH 207. -Union Student Placement to Law and Business Schools. Dr. Joseph Board and Dr. James Kenney SS 115. 2:00-3;00 Olympics This Saturday, April 21st ~rom 1-5 pm, on Library Field: 1s your chance to win a free meal while cheering your fellow students to victory at the Delta Gamma Olympics. The Olympics are being sponsored by Delta Gamma .to· benefit its Foundation-sight Conservation and Aid to the Blind .. The teams will consist of 8 men and 7 women. ·Each team will choose a team name, song and design a brumer. Points will be awarded for the latter and for com etition in several events. The events include a ·1 support your team, win a free ' backwards. tug-of-war, a . meal aml donate to a charity- ba!la':la eatmg relay, pyramid you'll also have a .great. time!. buildmg, a pentathlon and other events still to be announced. · Prizes will be awarded for the teams finishing first, second and third. ' The spectators, besides supplying moral support for their favorite team, wiH have a chance to place bets on their geam for each event. The team receiving the most support in the form of bets will also be. awarded extra points. When your team wins an event your return wHl be a free meal at the barbecue in Library Plaza. So come out this Saturday to Typing · · I n cl ud i n g e x p e r t . technicatl and sfatisticaJ work ; 85 cents straight typing; Fast, .Accorate, Larger papers only. Debbie, 895-2039, 4-10 p.m. The four-man experimental bobsled \was successfully run at the New Olympic track on Mt. Von Hoevenberg on March 16 and 17,\ said David Ullman assistant professor of mechanical engineering at Union and project •director. \The tests, although untimed, showed a promise of speed and clearly demonstrated the success of our chassis, seating, steering and suspension design.\ -Engineering - A Bobsled for the 1980 Olympics. Dr. William Hendricks Steinmetz 110. -·Liberal Education as Preparation for Medical School. Dr. Willard Roth BU 204. --China after Mao. Dr. Bruce Reynolds & Dr. Donald Thur- . ston HU 112. -What Excellence Means in Undergraduate Educatien, and How a Faculty Member Recognizes It. Dr. Byron Nichols SS 112. ------ ...... Area Calenda·r·-· -- Ullman said he is now organizing students to design and build a new four .. man sled and a two-man sled. The sup- port and cooperation of com- munity groups, firms, and in- dividuals will continue to be a ·Crucial factor in the project's success, he said. Tomorrow's meeting will focus on the results of test runs; a review of the. engineering effort; the .proposal design of the new sleds; the status of the athletic team; and needs for sponsorship. Class '83 Next Saturday Union is opening its doors to prospective freshmen. The admissions staff is expecting that some 250-300 prospective students and their families will attend. At ten o'clock the candidates will be greeted by the Director of Admissions Jay Shupe, President Auburn, President . designate Morris and Dean Nelson. The candidates will then have a chance to visit the pepartment(s) they are in- terested in. All of the depart- ments will be holding receptions and there will be faculty- student presentations. Following lunch, there will be faculty seminars, which are also open to Union students, as well as informative sessions on the financial aid program, career counseling, and the term abroad program. \ A similar program had been run in 1976 and 1977. For some· who have decided to attend it will be a first orientation to the school, to meet classmates and teachers. The others who perhaps have not made up their minds yet it will influence them to appreciate the college more, certainly it will .be a pleasant and informative day for all .. Elections On February 7, twenty-seven active Mountebanks met to approve the first five pages of a new Mountebanks Constitution. · This week, members of the Mountebanks Executive Board promised that· a completed Constitution, as revised by the Executive Board and the General Membership, will be presented by the end of this month for final ratificat on to the Voting Membership. After ratification by a club's mem- bership, new Constitutions are submitted to the Committee on Committees and the Student Formn for approval. The Mountebanks also ana nounced that elections for next year's officers will be held during the same General . Membership meeting. Names are now being accepted for next year's Executive Board positions. Job descriptions and further information is currently on display in the Nott Memorial Green Room. DAN:CE April .19-21. Spring Dance Concert held at 8 p.m. each e~ening Usted at Russell Sage's . Little Theatre. Admission: $L75 students, $2.75 general public. ART April 21. Annual Festival at • the fountain featuring arts . crafts, live entertainment, food: dress of many cultures. 10 a.m. to 4 p.m. at the Russell Sage College McKinstry Courtyard. Free admission. AROW April 21. The Art Resources Open to Women (AROW) will sponsor its third annual Community Day Open House on Saturday, April 21, at 348 State Street. The AROW gallery will display a multi-media collection of works by artists of Washington Women's Art Center in the District of Columbia. At 2:30 p.m., the Hamilton Hill~ Af:dca Dance Group, UMOJA, wilfgive a 3&.45 You're aiming for a college degree. And with that in hand you'll be looking for a job offer. You may find it won't be automatic. For that reason it's important for you, as a sophomore, to make the most of your last two years in college. Whatever your career choice, you'll want to become competitive and marketable: It won't be easy but you'll find yourself better prepared if you look ahead. Now. Army ROTC has prepared a packet to help you do just that. Get the facts on man- agement training. Learn what increases your leadership potential in the job market. Sophomor~. you can do something about your life after collej:je. Stop by Union College S & E Bldg. Rm. N116 Wed. 11·3 or Call 783•253C.. minute performance on the fourth floor. A nominal fee will be charged and refreshments served. From 4-5 p.m. there will be a discussion, \Feminist Art: Inclusive-Exclusive,\ acco- mpanied by a slide show of :the works of New York City artist Harmony Hammond and other local and nationally known artists. At 5 p.m., there will be a membership meeting and pot- luck supper. New member- registrations are welcome. For more information, call AROW at 346-5101. MEDIA April 16-20. The Electronic Body Arts will conduct a free five day workshop in Mime and television at EBA's RPI studio. Pantomime and media artists are invited to attend and par· ticipate. April 17~29. Annual Student .Exhibition of works in all media by student artists at SUNY, Albany/ MUSIC ;April 22 • .Steven Rosenberry, Duector .of Music at St. Andrew's Episcopal Church in Alb~ny, will present an organ recttal of all French music at the First Methodist Church, 603 State Street, Schenectady, at 7:30 p.m. • April 23. St. Mark's Com- munity, located in Guilderland Center, will sponsor a concert at 8:00 p.m. by the Red Clay Ramblers. The Ramblers concert tickets are $3.00 and have been made available through mail from Old Songs Inc., PO Box 197, Guilderland NY 12084, or through th~ Community Box Office, Colonie Center. April 24. Concert--Russell · Sage College Women's Chorus and RPI Chamber Singers, 8 p.m. at Bush Center, Russell Sage Campus. Free admission. C.,ntinued on page 14 Wanted: Part-time or full..- time college student to tend bar evenings. Apply in person to. El~anor or B'ill. After 8:00 p.m. 501 South Ave. (~or\ of South and J11y St.) ' • - BULLI There meeting the Stu• lounge ~ interestE event. Tht!D Science year re Johnson. providb evaluati~ wrigint, Monday, Frederi Chair, I Science Science Ad ho• Alan D. ThePl ad hoc the ten Profess< Departn Perso1 contribu investig• submit! names I E.C.Go' Electri' Comput' Hall. Specb Statestl filing Applic~ Assista and-()r I the 197l March must t before t Reme a StudeJ ANNUA paymell 1979-80 mailed early iJ receive end of 1 the OfJ where availab The l conduc review scholar: of four: faculty statemE ministr. have w more CynthiB Hatrry Winea1 make Profess Depar Buildin Fort] Fall TE urging con vine even in~ attend, anothet greate, and E~ April : Social ( \Sprin~ Commi \Night~ Fall TE Ronn touch o the ev1 ExtraS the bat1 music especiB The evt avery The' 8:30 p.J 28th. : reques1 J>erson drinks.

BULLETIN BOARD There will be a Senior FIIDg OONOORDIENSIS, April 19, 1919 classifieDs capacity for this event so get • your tickets as soon as they go · on sale. Watch for the an- . noun cement of when the tickets . go on sale. formation are available from: Personnel Office, Gateway NRA Headquarters, Brooklyn, New York 11234'. Phone: (212) 252-5743. Page 18 · Latham Office at 783-0222, Ext . 246. New York Life lilsurance Company: Has ful}·tiine Sales • Representative posi~ion meeting on Tuesday, Apri124 in ·. ·f·LAC .. EM· .. ENT· the Student Activities outer for Entry Level Personnel, to be held this coming June in New York City. This conference is a joint venture which includes many of their client companies. This organization is interested . in sending a representative to Union for the purpose of talking to xomputer science majors and . math ma~ors who will have · graduated by June 1979. If there . are any computer science or Job Oppottunities Umted Telecommunications openings. 1'his is a three-year training program with a life time income after 20 years of service with Management Potential. Any major may apply. They are interested in lounge at 4':30 for all seniors ' interested in helping to plan ·this ForWomeuatUiilon! The American Association of University Women will have . Corporation: Have positions openings for ES-EE with a thorough understanding of analog circuitry as it applies to amplifiers, oscillators, and sWitching devices. 'Familiarity with digital applications computer t!ec.hnology, specifically analog-digital convertors, comters, timers, and memory is also useful. These openings are for Technical Support Engineers. These positions will work out of their Technical Services Group, an R&D oriented operation, having dose interfaces with design and applications engineering. Applicants should contact Sc()tt Hollander, Manager, Bersonnel & Employee Relations at their event. 'lbt! Department of Political Science is conducting a third year review for Prof. Paul Johnson. Anyone interested in providing information or evaluation should do so in wrigint, submitting it by · · Monday, April 23 to · Prof. Frederick Hartwig, Acting Chair, Department of Political Science, Room 216, Social Science Building. Ad hoc Committee-Tenure of Alan D. Taylor. The Provost has appointed an ad hoc committee to evaluate the tenurability of Assistant Professor Alan D. Taylor of the Department of Mathematics. Persons who· are able to contribute to the committee's investigation are invited to submit statements or give their names to the chairman, Prof. E.C. Goodheart, Department of Electrical Engineering and Computer Science, Steinmetz Hall. Special notice to all New York State students: The last date for filing a Student Payment Application for the Tuition Assistance Program (TAP) and-or Regents Scholarships for the 1978-79 academic year is March 31, 1979. Applications must be postmarked on or before this date. Remember you must submit a Student Payment Application ANNUALLY iri order to receive payment. Applications for the 1979-80 academic year will be mailed directly to the student early in April. If you do not receive this application by the end of April, please check with the Office of Financial Aid where applications will be available. The English Department is conducting four. separate reviews of the teaching, scholarship, and college service of four members of the English faculty and welcomes statements from faculty, ad- ministrators, and students who have worked with any one or more of these professo..-s: Cynthia Davis, Peter Heinegg, Harry Marten, Brenda Wineapple. Please send or make your statements to Professor Stevenson, English Department, HumanitUs Building, by April 25, 1979. For those of you who attended Fal! Term's \Night Club,\ no urgmg should be necessary to · convince you to relive that evening. For those who did not attend, you are being given another oppOiiunity to enjoy a great evening of music, dancing and ESP. On Saturday night, Apr.il 28; the Union College Soctal Committee is offering its \Spring Nightclub.\ The Social Committee anticipates that this \Nightclub\ will even surpass Fall Term's. Ronnie Romrn will add a touch of Mystery and Magic to the evening with his acts of ExtraSensory Perception, and the ~and, \Jamo will provide mus1c for your listening and especially 'dancing' pleasure. The evening is guaranteed to be a very enjoyable one for all. The \Nightclub\ will go fr()m 8:30p.m. to 1:00 a.m. on April 28th. Semi-formal dress is requested. Tickets are $3.00 per person and includ two free drinks. There is a 200 person , representatives at Carnegie Hall on April 26 ff()m 10 a.lll .. tQ 1 :30p.m. Membership ih AAUW is open to women graduates of a 4-year college or university. As well as providing .social func· tions, AAUW enables members to continue their intellectual growth, to furtller the ad- vancement of women, and to discharge their special responsibility to society. Refreshments. will be served. Atteotllm: Computer Science aud Math Majors Data Exe<!utives, Ltd: is pleased to announce its First Annual EDP Career Conference · · math majors who are interested in attending the conference, please stop by the Plac~ment Office 'for further information aid also to leave your name. All invited students will have their · · fUll travel and lodging expenses paid for by the companies • participating in the conference. · Meals and incidentals will be · each student's own respon- . sibility. Ullited States Department of the Interior: Gateway National Recreation Area is accepting applications for a limited · number of Seasonal· Lifeguard ' positions until April 30; 1979. .Applications and further in- ,~, ···~'\ ...... 0:• ··...,..:<;>·· .• Q, ,>O·.r ~ t:···. NAVY OFFICER. • students with some business experience--while att'ending college or someone who. has helped finance their college education or both. Please contact Mr. Harvey Weiner (212) 888-9357. mM-san Jose, Callfornia: Have immediate openings for all types of engineers and programmers. Job requirements and applications are available in the placement office. ne General Tire & Rubber Company--Akroa, Ohio: Has positions openings in Product Engineerittg for BS-ME and BS- Chem. majors. For Tire Development Engineers-BS- YOU GET RESPONSIBILITY THE MOMENT YOU GET THE STRIPES. A lot of big corporations offer you a big toll free 800-342-5855.) Early responsibility. title. But how many offer a young college It's what being a Navy Officer is all about. graduate a really important job? r- -- As a Navy Officer, you don't have NAVY OP-;;;;UNITY -------;:;-1 to wait to do a job that counts. We give I INFORMAT'ION CENTER I you one as soon as you've earned your I P.O. Box 2000. Pelham Manor, N.Y. 10803 1 commission. A J\ob with responsibility for I 0 Send me information on Career Opportunities I I in the Navy (¢G). the lives of others, and for millions of dollars I of complex equipment. A job that requires I ° Call me at <Area Code> 1 ·skill andleadership.AjobthatNavyOfficers I NAME 1 have been doing proudly for 200 years. 1 First <Pleage Printl Last If that's the kind of job you're looking ADDREss I for, speak to a Navy recruiter. You'll find I CITY STATE ZIP I that Navy Officers have unequalled I I opportunities in :fields like Nuclear Power, I DATE OF: Birth ;College Graduatioo-- I Aviation, and Engineering. I tUniversity •GPA 1 Oreall toll free SCl0-841-8000. (In Georgia, L~~- ___________ J NAVY OFFICERS GEl RESPONSIBILITY FAST.

mpus events. The events include a backwards tug-of-war, a banana eating relay, pyramid building, a pentathlon and other events still to be announced. Prizes wiU be awarded for the teams finishing first, second, and third. · support your team, win a free I meal and donate to a charity-. you'll also have a great. time! Typing Including expert technica-l and statistical work; 85 cents straight typing; Fast~ Accurate, Larger papers only. The spectators, besides supplying moral support for their favorite team, will have a chance to place bets on their geam for each event. The team receiving the most support in the form. of bets will also be awarded extra points. When your team wins an event your · return will be a free mea} at the barbecue in Library Plaza. Debbie, 895·2039, 4-10 p.m. So come out this Saturday to Calendar·-· -- minute performance on the fourth floor. A nominal fee will be charged and refreshments served. From 4--5 p.m. there will be a discussion, \Feminist Art: Inclusive-Exclusive,\ acco- mpanied by a slide show of the works of New York City artist Harmony Hammond and other local and nationally known artists. At 5 p.m., there will be a membership meeting and pot- luck supper. New member- registrations a:re welcome. For more information, call AROW at 346-5101. MEDIA Apfil 16-20 .. The Electronic Body Arts will conduct a free five day workshop in Mime and television at EBA's RPI studio. Pantomime and media artists are invited to attend and par- ticipate. April 17-29. Annual Student .Exhibition of works in all media by student artists at SUNY, Albany./' MUSIC April 22. Steven Rosenberry, . Director of Music at St. . Andrew's Episcopal Church in Albany, will present an organ recital of all French music at the First Methodist Church, 603 State Street, Schenectady, at 7:30p.m. Aprh 23. St. Mark's Com- munity, located in Guilderland Center, will sponsor a concert at 8:00 p.m. by the Red Clay Ramblers. The Ramblers concert tickets are $3.00 and have been made available through mail from Old Songs Inc., PO Box 197, Guilderland, NY 12084, or through the Community Box Office, Colonie Center. April 24. Concert--Russell Sage College Women's Chorus and RPI Chamber Singers, 8 p.m. at Bush Center, Russell Sage Campus. Free admission. Continued on page 14 ~ . Wanted: Part-time or full~ time college student to tend bar evenings. Apply in person to Eleanor or Bill. After 8:00 p.m. 501 South Ave. (Cor. of South and Jay St.) ' • IDTC. THE TWO-YEAR ,..lAM. YOII DECISI BULLETIN BOARD There will be a Senior Fling meeting on Tuesday, April 24 in the Student Activities .outer lounge at 4:30 for all senio~s interested in helping to plan this event. The Department .of PoUtical Science is ·conducting a third year review for Prof. Paul Johnson. Anyone interested in providing information C?r evaluation should do so m wrigint, submitting it by· Monday, April 23 to · P~of. Frederick Hartwig, Actmg Chair, Department of Politi~al Science, Room 216, Soc1al Science Building. Ad hoc Committee-Tenure of Alan D. Taylor. The Provost has appointed an ad hoc committee to evaluate the tenurability of Assistant Professor Alan D. Taylor of the Department of Mathematics. Persons who· are able to contr-ibute to the committee's investigation are invited to submit statements or give their names to the chairman, Prof. E.C. Goodheart, Department of Electrical Engineering and Computer Science, Steinmetz Hall. Special notice to all New York State students: The last date for filing a Student Pay~~nt Application for the Tu1tlon Assistance Program (TAP) and-or Regents Scholarships for the 1978-79 academic year is March 31, 1979. Applications must be postmarked on or before this date. Remember you must submit a Student Payment Application ANNUALLY iri order to receive payment. Applications for the 1979-80 academic year will be mailed cUrectly to the student early in· April. If you do not receive this application by the end of April, please check with the Office of Financial Aid where applications will be available. The English Department is conducting four . separate reviews of the teaching, scholarship, and college service of four members of the English faculty and welcomes statements from faculty, ad- ministrators, and students who have worked with any one or more of these professors: Cynthia Davis, Peter Heinegg, Harry Marten, Brenda Wineapple. Please send or make your statements to Professor Stevenson, English Department, Humaniti~s Building, by April 25, 1979. For those of you who attended Fall Term's \Night Club,\ no urging should be necessary to convince you to relive that evening. For those who did not attend, you are being given another opportunity to enjoy a great evening of music, dancing and ESP. On Saturday night, April 28, the Union College Social Committee is offering its \Spring Nightclub.\ The Social Committee anticipates that this \Nightclub\ will even surpass Fall Term's. Ronnie Romm will add a touch of Mystery and Magic to the evening with his acts of ExtraSensory Perception, and the band, \Jamo will provide music for your listening and especially 'dancing' pleasure. The evening is guaranteed to l:;le a very enjoyable one for all. The \Nightclub\ will go from 8:30 p.m. to 1:00 a.m. on April 28th. Semi-formal dress is requested. Tickets are $3.00 per person and includ two free drinks. There is a 200 person OONOOBDIENSIS, April 19, 1979 · classifiet>s capacity for this event so get your tickets as soon as they go on sale. Watch for the an- nouncement of when the tickets go on sale. PtA CEMENT For Women at Union! The American Association of University Women will ha~e representatives at earnegte Hall on April 26 from 10 a.m .. to 1:30p.m. Membership in AAUW is open to women gr,~duat.es of a 4-year college or un1vers1ty. AB well as providing social func· tions, AAUW enables members to continue their intellectual growth, to further the ad- vancement of women, and to discharge their sp~cial responsibility . to soctety. Refreshments will be served. Attention: Computer Science and Math Majors Data Execgtives, Ud: is pleased to announce its First Annual EDP Career Conference for Entry Level Personnel, to be held this coming June in New York City. This conference is a joint venture which includes many of their client companies. This organization is interested in sending a representative. to Union for the purpose of tal·king to xomputer science majors and ma'h majors who will have graduatedby June 1979. If there are any computer science or math majors who are interested ill attending the conference, please stop by the Plac~m~nt Office for fUrther informatiOn ald also to leave your name. All invited students will have their full travel and lodging expenses paid for by the companies participating in the conference. . Meals and incidentals will be each student's own respon- sibility. United States Department of tbe Interior: Gateway National Recreation Area is accepting applications for a limited nuinber of Seasonal Lifeguard · positions until April 30, 19?9. Applications and further m- ~ ·.'~ •I >'• ~~ ,formation are available fr Personnel Office, Gate· NRA Headquarters, Broo~ New York 11234. Phone: { 252-5743. Job Opportunities United Telecommunicat . C4>rporatlon: Have posit1 openings for BS-EE witl thorough understanding analog circuitry as it appliE amplifiers, oscillators, switching devices. Famili~ with digita~l applicat: computer technolo specifically analog-di~ convertors, counters, tinl and memory is also US! These openings are Technical Support EnginE These positions will work 01 their Technical Services Gr an R&D oriented opera· having close interfaces design and applicat engineering. Applicants sh contact Scott Hollan Manager, Personnel Employee Relations at 1 NAVY OFFICER. · YOU GD RESPONSIBILITYTHI YOU GDTHE STRIPES. A lot of big corporations offer you a big title.13ut how many offer a young college graduate a really important job? As a Navy Officer, you don't have . to wait to do a job that counts. We give you one as soon as y~u've eame? ¥?ur commission. A job with responsibility for the lives of others, and for millions of do~ars of complex equipment. A job that requires · skill and leadership. A job that Navy Officers have been doing proudly for 2?9 yea~. If that's the kind of job you re looking for, speak to a Navy recruiter. You'll find that Navy Officers have unequalled opportunities in fields like Nuclear Power, Aviation, and Engineering. Or call toll free 800-84:1-8000. (In Georgia, toll free 800-342-58[ It's what being aN r -;~-;~;;:~~ I INFORMATIONCE I P.O. Box 2000, Pelban 1 0 Send me inforrnat: I in the Navy (¢G). I 0 Call me at_-,--,-- (Area · I NAME, _ ____,=-=--- First I ADDRESS, __ _ I CITY--~~· ~ I DATEOF: __ _ Birth I tUniverSity· __ _ L~~---- NAVY OFFICERS Gn RESPONSI

,.. .· .. Pa,ge 14 ME. This is a training program from 6 to 12 months. Please stop by placement for more In- formation. Careers in Health Plannihg &Policy What: Jnf()rmal Talk Who: Prof. Eugene Schneller Whel'e: Bailey Hall, Room 310 When: April·26, Thursday, 3:30 p.m. The purpose of the .program is to expose students to the variety of opportunities in health planning and health systems administration and to provide a guide to federal and state health systems agencies. The following topics will be cove1•ed: l. Health planning and-er policy 2. Health Systems management 3. Medical sociology 4. Bi() statistics 5. ·Epidemiology Natu.ral science majors and social science majors are particularly urged to attend. F ()r further information contact Yungwha Min at PCR. Refreshments will be served. WANTED: Antiques, fur- nitwe, h()usehold goods, or an~ :miscellaneous items for public fund raising auction sponsored by Delta Gamma and Sight Conservation & Aid to the Blind Donated items and con signments now wanted! Please call Mona, 37~519. We need r . your help! Orders for the 1883 Freshman Record are being accepted now! Do you, as an underclassman want t<> be without this valuabl reference book? Then orde now, and have yo11r · copy reserved for next fall. Send (o drop off) $5 per copy and th ()l'der form below to the Studen Activities Office, Union College Your receipt will be forwarde , e r r e t . d by retlll'n mail. Na:me~--------- Box No. _______ _ No. Copies ______ _ $ Enclosed ______ _ (Make checks payable to Unio n College please! ) e There will be a meeting of th s.c.v .D.A. in Strauss Lcunge o Thursday, the nineteenth, a lO:ao p.m. Dr. Tibia Extende will lecture on the uses of th Illinois Vine as relevant t platform divi g in the Belgia Cong<J dlll'ing the late 1960' Fonowing the meeting, D Ex:tender will demonstrate h famed single leg teclmique the South College stairwe Refreshments will be serve n t r e 0 n s. r. is in 11. d. Gatesmen Applications e Gatesmen applications ar available at the Admissio Office. Deadline for the com pleted applications is Frida May 4. As soon as y()u retur your application you will requested to sign up for interview which will be giv during the week of May Gatesmen give tours to Uni applicants and their families. Seni<Jrs, who have be Gatesmen in the past, are giv the opportunity to intervi ns - y, n be an en 6. on- en en ew pr()spective students. HELP WANTED y: ess Needed immediate I Attractive Cocktail Waitr rectucred for young gentleme card game Friday night. experience required. F n's No ree OONOORDIENSIS~ April 19, 1979 classifieDs rlr· mks all night. Contact Pave 597 6 or Stu 382-8895. LOST th Reward: A reward well worth e effort is up for the return of Victorinox Swiss Army Knife, a c. RAFTSMAN MODEL, OF IGH SENTIMENTAL H v ALUESKIP th Reward: A reward well worth e effort is up for the return of Victorinox Swiss Army Knife, a Cr aftsman model, of . high ntimental value. Call Carlos 2-8973 or return to Box 1394. se 38 FO'R SALE Loft For Sale varnished, n Brand new, sturdy, stained- queen-sized 1oft. No ails--screws only, easily ssembled. Must see. Call Steve a at 370~587. PERSONALS Florida 5-Babes win by at le ast 3 to 2. Get Down Disco Fred!-the E nz. g a y Lassie's Dead-Here's to a ood season! Whipp.er-When's Vassar!? or re you back from Sweet Briar et? When SLAB gets down, bones c rush. r Jim McGhee-! hear your oommate died of crib death Wendell-Cook much? Wendell-! hear your limp left you. L.L.--It was a GOOD Friday! !...:.A Ruth--Thanks for th e housecall-A d Andrea F .-\If I could rea your mind\-Gordon Lightfoo t (DR!) Give to UJA t Cory-Let's get HIGH!-Abou 10,000 ft. O.K. ?-DAP RM-Let's go Dancing Frida y night. DAP. a Lynn--Hope you have GREAT time in Rochester! ! ! Happy Birthday JZ!!! Congratulations and Goo Luck, Robyn and John d Steve-Nice secret-! told yo u I'd find out. Gull ke Bawn-How long does it ta to blow? Fletch-A wild and CAR E- FREE guy. st Lisa-Well here it is-Your la personal from me, hope y; ou enjoy it. Gul\ Dave--You're wonderf u~ 1! ! ! ! ! ! Gull & Co. 're Gull-Not quite cool, you very gullish on America DR . ow m ld) ina K-Take heart! WE kn where MiHord is-Paul (fro whereinthehellis Springfie and Steve (from where thehellis Laurens) ' T o the Siena Kid-How about xt time you remember your ddies?-Mean Joe, Bad Steve, 1r1e · bu an d the General. J s OCE: \Those who ~ring unshine to the lives of others nnot help but bring it to ca mselves. \-Claire the Marilyn: If I can't have you I'll take your little brother! ! Marie: What kind of rocks es one usually suck?-GA do Carol Z,: I wish you rainbows 36 5 days a year .. -cb Blak Baron: Turquoise, like gems, has a ·fire deep all wi thin. -Grape G Mongd: Let's contact the uiness Book about time spent at West.-Guess Who th Cheryl: \G()d created all ings, but He took special care crafting the rose and. you.\ in s unshine. A-Any coconuts yet? It was an excellent three \ Day's Inn\ Florida. 1 li JEF--don't think you're eaving us that easily I We feel ke deserted kids-the suite just won't be the same without you We really don't know what it was with you, but . . . ) your ( r oomies. s Chuck-How 'bout developing orne gross motor skills t ogether? Andy-It's nice to be home again.-Kurt and Herman ! Florida 5-Let's do it again! Anyone missing a couch and wo refrigerators, please contact Al & co. at 382-9582, they may know what happened to t hem. t e Attention: All friends of thos m 218D-you are now allowed t eat, drink and be merry in th room. Happy Passover, 218 (-1 0 e ) Bill-How are things at . . ' 'THE HOUSE\? Fireside tonight, Be there , aloha! n BoK 1204-Do you have a extra order blank? Next time you guys go Florida, bow about inviting th t e rest of us!! Chuck-Remember you're th e whimp!! T-Bernie and I just wanted tell you-Happy 3 months! to . . To the males of the FF maybe if you're good this yea the Easter Bunny will visit y r, ou next year. I doubt it! ou Robert Lee--1 think y should take up · another 1 course ... you have too much fr ab ee time. Sarah-next time you have do the Charleston, don't blam it on the matzos or the peps you just don't know when to st to e i- op dancing! It's all over tonight at 7, th en it's Fireside time. ely us, ry, se, fie, ; ' Jay-The Hulk is absolut fantastic, great, marvelo fanta bulous, extraordina gruesome-looking, immen intense, remarkable, terri sim-ply Amaiing!, . . . • . thought it was kinda good. . I ' Get psyched ttes! ! ! ! ! ! ! ! ! ! ! '! ! ! ne Jean- R()b-Do I really have to run for 24 hours?? The Fat Man ·be AUssa--Happy very very lated birthday! Love you're 1ties. I'd just like to say, D P T B A PS .. ' l su Taz.: Oh God! It looks like .fish Friday! on Taryn: That shit tastes . . . e shit. Dem lik VOLLEYBALL, VOLLEY- BALL, Thanks 8 lot team. ben Hey Diapers-Do you love Java, SW\;et and hot? Edwardino: Gonna work for Marilyn: It seems that ·the Big Yellow Father, eh? erywhere you go paranoia ts in! ev se Kelly: Happy Birthday. Hildy \Blak Baron\: Since the light ver .shines ih my room or your draws\ it won't matter that ne \ yo u .are missing a few things. ut watch out for lost cadets! B Soph: \BOP POWER\! Dem Mady: You owe me fifty c ents! h Deme: God only knows why I ang around with you-but I'm ad I do! gl u t' Dick and Dale: Welcome to nion! Hope you have a good une. Love Pam t st Dale: How about me letting he oil out of your car so you can ay longer?! P. c Silver Streak: Thanx for the ard! The Big \C\ has arrived. Company? Whoopee! Your Mountain Man Dirtball: Glad you could make it. (fingers still crossed) I miss Teddy! Love your car, w~tch is still better. Love Not c ute LOST: One puppy answering t o the name of Benjy. If found, lease return to the Daisy Hill p Puppy Farm. · t Which Musketeer bumps into hings? Which one jumps in puddles? BILL AND DAVE: enjoy your weekend in New England. Who was seen singing obscene ongs in the Pub on Tuesday? s Not Cinders ... she's a good girl. (cough) 1 Cindy-! hear you have a ovely ... And what about that cat named Boots? Tom- You will if who will? CINDY --Does your mother know you let men in your room? What would she say? DTR ... your mother bakes a nice cake . Tenors ... Freud has decided to add Bass Envy to his books. Pam-somebody really DOES LOVE YOU. And if you don't believe this you are an jerk. Mackie-how long is a Flavor Savor good for?? 6ers--Doc. Iguana will triumph in the end. BG-the white team will go all the way. Steve H, not B or G-Plastic food?? Mom R. Won't be pleased. Maaaaark--I'm scared of moving to Boston. BD Greg-Good luck this Friday. BD Tiny Grasshopper...:There's something MOVING in your tree! White Watusi ... C U Y R!! Brooooocie: Love those pastels-Goofy . Landroo-Have a good time in Bermuda (shorts). Pat--we all know what · chewing ice means. UH-G LEE UH-G LEE UH· ·GLEE CLUB Nimrod (The Mighty Bunter) A chicken in every pot and a girl at every school? Hey Alvin··Impressed by Ha}lvahd? .. . Smiles ... Only 3.75 POints; You're losing your \touch\!! Doc-Ay ... did you lose your way among ze French Ladies, hunh? OK Rooks . . , . Do you know why a pool table is green? You may be green too unless . . . Bruce-ask me about The Man from Penn Station! ! ! Robin--You know I'll do ~nything anywhere anytime!- The Banner Man Hey Bahbrah-It's time for the Ed Craig Music Hour!!! Doug- I love 'ya. Are you_ angry? · Hey Crisco! How's your stay been? Jimmy D.-Did you m;Ute it in Daytona? Ron's Mother is an • oops - oops! Rubin, what•s eating you lately? Who's the most famous author discussed in Professor Murphy's Shakespeare After 1600 class? John Butler Who. Editorials really should be written in advance! Bawn-Here's the personal I owe you-Disco Lou-How can you live with Stan? Stan-How can you live with Lou? Doug-How can you live with Stl\n and Lou? Calendar • • • Contillued from page 10 FILM April 25. Russell Sage College will sponsor two Marx Bros comedies--\ A Night at the Opera,\ and \A Day at the Circus.\ Filiils start at 7:30 p.m. in the Schacht Fine Arts Center. Admission: $1.00. - Tr~ Union'~ main go~ really sh state me quali£y n the WOl' James. The Dt . a leg up< NCAA pionship: runner already t at Penn: the 800 l His 801 Fordhan ago mac IC4A an( a second for the l' is c Bn ent bei [ l l ( I·

OONOORDIENSIS, April19, 1979.. Page 15 6pOrt5 Track Begins Season Union's track team has two main goals this spring; ''We're really shooting to do well in the state meet at Colgate and to qualify men in the NCAAs,'' in the words of coach Chuck James. The Dutchmen figure to have . a leg up on representation in the NCAA Division III cham- pionships .in late May. Star runner Kevin Scheller has already qualified for the IC4A's at Pennsylvania May 18-20, in the 800 and 1,500 meters. His 800 time of 1:51.5 in the Fordham Relays several weeks ago made him eligible for the IC4A and is just three-tenths of a second Short of what he'U need for the NCAA chamoionshios to be held at Baldwin-Wallace, May 24-26. Both Scheuer and long jmnp- triple jump Earl Chilton competed .in the NCAAs last spring. and could head another Union College contingent. This pair, plus graduated Bob Moffat, placed Union seventh in the unofficial standings among 79 Division III teams. James figures Scheuer could come \very close to breaking the four-minute miles this year, too.\ He bases his optimism on Kevin's 4:06.76 indoor clocking at Princeton during the winter season. Other outstanding retW\nees on the Dutchmen's track team indudP PPh> ViPlkintl in the 440. Chi Psi's Annual Schenec- Toga Beer Rally is coming Wednesday, April 25th. See any Chi Psi Brother or call Chi Psi Lodge at 382-9029 for an entry . form and-or specifiCs. Entries are due before April 23rd. D UNION COLLtGE PUB RESTAURANT 880 and relays; Matt Guilfoyle in the 220and 440, \he should be a standout,'' says James; Ed Dingman in the 100 and 220; Lee Parish in the same ever.ts; Dave Cozzens in the high jump and javeline; Henry Wright in the triple jump and broad jump, and Matt Blum in the hurdles; \Matt was injured most of last spring, I think he'll be back in his old form this time,\ says James. r The Dutchmen's season will be a \road show\ this year with no home meets. Highlights include the Penn Relays April 28, Colgate Invitational May 5 and the New York State championships at Colgate on May 12. Dr. Cooley, Umion hockey ,physician, Anthony Ortolano, Dutchmen trainer, and the latter's wife, Meg, R.N., have been chosen as the medical and athletic training team for the United States Slalom and WHd Water Canoe squad. They will travel to Jane Quiere, Quebec, Canada, this summer for the 1979 World Championships. Spring Physical Education Activity Offerings 1979 Activity Instructor Day Time Location Cost Ballet TBA Wed. 12:30 Arts 202 $24 Bowling Pattenaude Mon. 9:15 Boulevard Bowl TBA Beg. Modern Dance Pritchard MWTh 4:30 Arts 202 $24 Adv. Modern Dance Castelli Thurs. 6:00 Arts 202 $24 Jazz TBA Tues. 4:30 Arts 202 $24 Jogging Staff TBA TBA Gym 0 Karate Rymaruk Mon. 7:00 Gym $20 Weick Tues.-Thurs.12:30 Gym 0 Physical Fitness Program Physical Fitness Program Weick Fri. 9:00 a.m. Fieldhouse $9-Sess. ($18) Beginning Swimming Staff TBA TBA Gym 0 CPR ZBT TBA TBA Gym 0 Tennis James Tues-Th. 1:30 Main Cts. 0 Kent Mon.- Wed. TBA Main Cts. 0 · Racquetball Staff TBA TBA Gym 0 Conditioning Program Bagnoli Tues.-Th. 4:30 Gym 0 Basketball Skills Scanlon Tues.-Th. 4:30 FieldhollSe 0 If there are any questions concerning the Spring Activities, please call the Intramural Office at 37()..6119. Rnggers at One and One Union College rugby opened its spring season one and a half weeks ago with a close loss against an already-seasoned Siena rugby squad. With a mere three practices behind them the spirited Dutchmen ruggers held tough and played well despite a nwnber of penalties - both deserved and undeserved. The first half remained scoreless as both teams struggled agair;lst an unremitting and visciollSly cold cross-wind which seriously hampered all kicking as well ~s personal movement. The second half opened up a bit more and by the end of the match Union's ruggers were saddled with the first defeat of the season, final score: Siena over Union, 7-3. Union's B-team also suffered defeat with a score of 12-4; ex- rugger Bllrt Slavin slipped into the endzone for Union's only try (touchdown) of the day. · to its first of many win this season, (hopefully). Short on men, the entire Med A-team manned the field once more and outplayed the less- experienced Union B-team, winning 8-0. A special thanks should be extended to ex-captain \Uncle Burl\ Slavin who manned one of the games toughest positions -referee, (when the reglllar ref didn't show - too rainy for him?). y Dutch Hollow Pub This past weekend was more like it; complete with perfect rugby weather - rainy and a field full of mud; and a crowd of spectators despite the in- clement weather. The match was against a very experienced and always ready Albany Med. rugby team. The Dutchmen kept Med. bottled up in their own end during the first five minutes. Then with a quick pass from Chip \Flamer\ Fenn to Mark Snapper near the endzone Union was across the goal line for an early 4-0 lead. Although the extra-points kick failed due to the muddy field conditions the one ''try\ proved sllfficient to see Union through the game After a near-undefeated fall season Union's rugby team is looking forward to another successful season. We would like to thank all those hearty and dedicated fans who defied the elements to show support for, and suck beers with, U·Coll's fine rugby squad of dedicated masochists led by co-captains Chip Fenn and Tony Ward. C 5aiENtCTAOY,N.~ 12;30& *This Weekend in the Pub* 1-iOLLOW . Frozen Strawberry Daiquiris Friday & Saturday Night Come on in and try a drink out our new frozen drink n1achine. (Don't forget Happy Hour Friday from 9:30-10: 30! ) Cornell Law SChool Und~rgraduat~ Prelaw Program June 11 to July 24, 1979 A demanding six-week program for college students who want to learn what law school is like. For further information write to Prof. E. F. Roberts, Cornell Law School 3148 Myron Taylor Hall, Ithaca, NY 14853

~ ;_ Page 16 OONOORDIENSIS 1 April 19, 1979 sports Lax Drops Three by TIM SULLIVAN The Dutchmen lacrosse team played three games this week, winding up on the losing side in all three games. A nationally ranked St. Lawrence team scmed · a 20-7 victory last Thursday. On Satw-day the team traveled to SUNY GenesEo for a game which was lost 12-4. This past Tuesday on increasingly useless Daley Field SUNY Brockport walked home with a 15-10 victory. Visiting St. Lawrence scored -within 20 seconds of the opening faceoff and Neil Kanner retaliated with a spin-tw-n shot fr.om the side to tie it at 1-1. St. La \\!renee added three more first period goals for a 4-1 lead Jim Wright connected with Greg Steiner for a rare behind the head goal at 3:32 of the second. Coach Meagher, chastb:ing Steiner for the hot dog.shot, asked who had taught him that move. The trainer claimed credit. The game was dominated by powerhouse St. Luvrence throughout, and 15 penalties for Union versus 9 for St. Lawrence produced eight extra-man goals for the visitors. Theattack line of Fran Shields, Scott Fetterhol.f, and Jeff McKenzie combined for 10 goals and Ul assists. In all, twelve different players scored for St. La'Wrence. Neil Kanner was higb scorer for the Dutchmen -with 3-goals and an assist, while Greg Steiner had a goal and an assist. Bill Wade, Rich Romer, and Jim Wright also ccm- tributed goals in the Union cause. 'lbe St. Lawrence offense -was in control throughout the contest, causing Union to commit defensive mistakes. Union goalies AI Greenberg and Randy Feldman combined for eighteen saves m the barrage. The Union squad travelled to ~Geneseo on Saturday, losing by a score of 12-4. The game was plagued by bad weather throughout Jr. Rob Sherman applied pressure on the Geneseo . goaiie with· ·midfield rushes, scoring three goals in the secondhalf.Soph. Rob Fishman scored one for Union at 9: 12 of the fourth. Geneseo was paced by Larry Litzelman with two goals and 5 assists, and Gary Gleason, with four goals and an assist. The loss dropped the Dutchmen to 1-4 on the season. As in previous games it was the absence of a strong defense which cost Union the game. This past Tuesday Brockport visited our confines to battle it out in the mud. The first period saw end to end play and a 2-1 score in favor of Brockport. Freshman Jim Wright scored the Union goal at 11:39 of the period. Neil Kanner was called for a slash early in the second quarter, resulting in a quick extra-man goal by Scott McEntee of Brockport. Soon after a Brockport fast break led to a goal at 14:07 to make the score 4-1. At 13:51 Jack McEntee blew by the Union defense and put one by AI Greenberg to make the score 5- 1. Three more goals by Brock- port put the score at 8-1 with 3 minutes left to play in the second quarter. Rob Sherman broke the string by stealing the ball and rushing downfield, passing off to Jim Wright, who put it over the goalie for his and the team's second goal. Rob Sherman scored a goal at 1:45 and the half ended with Brock- port ahead 8-3. Union picked up the pace in the second half, passing well and executing on defense. Rich Tennis Wins Opening Match by ROY LIPSON versatility by coming back to win again in the doubles. The 1979 Union College Tennis In the doubles Doug Burns Team, after two early and Tom Listina w~re the first 'snoW()Uts' opened its season on team off the coW't with a 7-6, 6-2 a promising note. Last Tuesday win. After the first set tie- saw the Dutchmen turn a 4-2 b~e~ker,, gutsy freshman Tom deficit, after the singles, into a Listl!la ripped a bac~and down 54 victory at the close. This the lm~ to take the first set by Jll>ints to the versatility and one pomt, the team proceeded depth of this years squad. Led to take the s~cond set and the by a host of returnees, this match. The ftrst doubles ~earn­ years team, captained by senior of Jeff Cohen and ~Y Lipson Rolf Lipton, looks really strong. came back strong m a close This is in part because the three set match. The 6-4, 4-6, 6-2 mens program has been ex· victo~ tied the match at 4 all. panded this year to a fall The w~ helped to take so~e of schedule of three matches. the stmg out of close smgles After a 2-1 Fall season the team losses for the number thre~ and worked out at the Captialand number on~ man, respectively. Tennis Center and at Kibbutz Th~ ~ensation . of the day ~as Dovrat in Israel. Although de~mitely the displ~y of vollymg missing junior sensation, Doug qwckness of Rolf Lipton and the Rice, the team is looking for- st~adyness. of . Gary Turr~r. -ward to a winning season. With the Um!>n Siena match tied C()ach Inderjit Singh, area at 4-4 the wmner of the second tennis wizard has the team doubles match would be the running and playing hard. He winne~ of the match. After has been coaching Union for droppmg the second set 6-? Rolf fou.r years and is looking to and Gary came back to wm the expand the tennis program by match 6-4, . 6-7, 6·2: They were fol'llling a J. v. team. The SpL!fred on m the third ~et b~ the 'Jayvees' will have a number of Umon squad, ;and bel!eve It or spring matches and is being not, a travelm~ Umon Spec- organi2ed now. tator. Co~ch ~m~ w.as ve~y Union's victory came after plea~ed With th1s b1g wm an~ IS being down 4-2 after the singles. lookmg forward to a . fme The two singles winners were .season· The next match 1s at Jon Levin-Epstien and Gary Albany State on Wedne~day and Turer. Jon, playing second the next ~orne match IS Thw-- singles, walked off the court sd~~ . agamst a very strong after a 6-3, 6-1 rout, leaving his Wllllams College team. Come nurt.tering opponent stunned. on out to ~upport and cheer ~n Turrer won 6-1, 6-1 at nUmber your Umon College Tenms six singles. He Showed his Team. Romer scored on a pass from Sherman at 11:12. Neil Kanner scored his first goal of the afternoon when he dropped It under the goalie following a steal by Jim Wright. Kanner scored soon after that to make the score 1()-5, Neil had several opportunities in the third period, missing barely each time. AI Greenberg was suffering through an off day in the goal, finishing with 22 saves on 37 shots. Union finished strong in the third as R.ab Fish- man put a 30 footer between the posts at 3:02. AUackman Neil Kanner Union went two men down ~ early in the fourth but held off >- . · Brockport. Soon after, however,. ~ Tom Talbott missed A.l o Greenberg on a .pass, the ball if rolling in front of the goal to be tapped in by Jack McEntee of Brockport. Brockport scored three more in the fourth for a total of fifteen. Neil Kanner singlehandedly produced the fourth period offense for Union, scoring three unassisted goals and another goal on an assist from Rich Romer. Kanner, Romer, Wright,. and Sherman con~.i.nue to dominate the sc't)ring for tJnion, pointing to a lack bf depth at midfield. The defen~.i.s not clearing out men April 19 - 25 in front of the cage, causing many opposing goals to be scored from in close. This Satw-day the laxmen take their 1-5 record to Mid- dlebury, and then it's back home for 4 a game against Albany St. next Wednesday. Var. Base!Jall Var. Lacrosse J. V. Lacrosse Tennis TRACK Women's Softball Women's Lacrosse April22at Clarkson (2} Apri I 23 vs. Siena April 21 ar Middlebury April 25 vs. Albany State April21 at Middlebury April 24 vs. R. P .I. April 21 at Hobart April25 vs. Skidmore April21 at Binghamton (Open l.n,vite) April 25 at Hamilton Apri 119 vs. Albany April21-22, Union Invitational Tournament April 20 at Hartwick April 24 vs. Oneonta Baseball Loses to Williams' by MATT KIMBERLEY Union lost 7-2 to Williams last Friday for the second time in as many games. Freshman Glenn Kinns took the loss. Chris Massaroni and Steve Gollled Union's offense against Williams. Massaroni, hitting for an average of .444, had his second double of the season, while Steve Goll, hitting for an average of .400, went 2 for 2, hitting for a double and a single. With the exception of Massaroni and Mark Decker, the latter who has a seasonal average of .375, Union's 'big bats' have not been hitting up to par. Dan Thompson is batting .125 after going 0 for 4 at Williams, and Dave Adsit, also 0 for 4 against Williams, is hitting a lowly .222. The team did improve defensively versus Williams, committing only one error as opposed to four against RPI in the season opener. Glenn Kinns pitched the first five innings giving up only four hits, but allowing five walks and ·Mike Hogan finished the game in relief, allowing two hits and two walks. Williams outbit Union by only one hit, yet won by five runs. After the loss to Williams, in an attempt to spark Union's hitting, Sakala planned on realigning the team for Tuesday's -game with three switches. First of all, Mark Decker will replace Damien Quinn, 0 for 7 in the designated hitter slot, secondly, Trace Anderson, who hit .260 last year, will take on Decker's position in right field, and thirdly, Ron Levine will meet AI DiLibro at ' short. Dave Frederick is scheduled to start. Assessing his tel.lms loss to Williams, Coach Dick Sakala noted two problems: the failure to get 'key hits' (against RPI in the opening game of the season, Union batters left ten men on base; against Williams, nine), and his players' lack of game experience. However the up- coming week will test the team! \This is the week that will test us as a team,\ said Coach Sakala on Tuesday, April 17th, after stating that losses in the first two games of the season were \insignificant.\ The team played Albany State on Tuesday, and then is scheduled · to play RPI at home on Wed- nesday, a rescheduled doubleheader against St. Lawrence on Saturday, another doubleheader on S~n~ay against Clarkson, and will face Siena on Monday. Consequently, by next Tuesday, April 24,. the lineup should be set and the team should have a better per- · spective as to the~ type of baseball it is capable of playing. Speaking just before the game against Albany State on this past Tuesday, Sakal a was still optimistic about this years squad and feared only that his players would be discouraged by their two opening lackluster performances. He indicated that in neither the RPI nor the Williams game had they been \outclassed\ and that he still sees no reason why \ ... we can't be very competitive.\ . . . ·.u·· Pitcher Mike Hogan • c. c - Vol - Th• Trust past of Fi meet Presi who favor Boar' April revie over· Inch busirl budg1 year serv; whol• Th• imm• cami budg, 80. 1J seers Corm feasil bud~ .CQUe $25;0t budg' $1,051 restr: currE too \ bud~' the pi of At Fill 1EF1 was and J by tt figur reprE and r and 1 o.k.'c aSSUI AlS $92,0 ProjE cons~ c Co1 the 1 now in th outei are Stud• Colle theF of s matt studc are facu ·staff matt one' Sel alwa bOW< sele' bee~ pro~ avai mitt' Co Ill resJl stud, wbic meiJ plic~ appl hem nurn Afte are; and cont reqt

2) te I. rt er- · of his his ter Ji'ounclerl ot Union Coll~e 1877 Vol.. lOS, No. 19 Schenectody I N.Y. Thu·rsday I April 26, 1979 Trustees Review Campus Activity by STUDENT TRUSTEES BRIJ'!,:N O'TOOLE and MARK BURNETT The Union College Board af Trustees met on campus this past weekenc:l&midst the bustle of Fitz HUgh Ludlow Day. The meeting was the first for President-elect JohnS. Morris, who made a strong and favorable impression upon the Board. Following tradition, the April meeti.rlg served as a review of campus activities over the previous three months. Included among the major business acted upon were the budget for the 1979-80 academic year and an energy con- servation prog·ram for the whole campus. question of benefits for the Ingv.arssons was given to the administration for study. A number of issues that will have long-standing consequences for tbe Col!ege in years to come have developed and the com- mittee felt that before action could be taken, faculty and administration should give the matter further thought. The matter will be taken up again at the June meeting and :some resolution is anticipated. The Dean of Faculty inftmned the committee that problems of inadequate starting salaries con.tinued to grow more serious. The budget for 1979-110 allows for an average of $13,200 for an assistant professorship. Attempting to hire top Continued on page 14 The Board action of most immediate consequence for the campus was approval of the budget for the fiscal year 1979- 80. In their eapacity of over- seers, the Budget and ·Audit Committee. speculated upon the feasibility of four areas of the budget. · The ability of the .College to raise the additional $25jCJOO projected f9r next year's budget over and above the $1,050,000 already stlpulated in restricted gifts revenue for the current year was questioned. So too was the adequacy of the budget for the mi'!int~nam::e of the ph;r.sical plant and the Dean of Adrnissions budget. proved by the Board. The \PUot Project\ includes costs .fo.r insulating ceiling space in West, North, and South Colleges, replacing present light fixt~es in West with incandescent ones, and the repl~cement of controls on Dne of the College boilers. Stage two of t~e program calls for insulating 30 other cC;Impus buildings, storm windows for 10 others, more lighting con· versions, modifications in campus cooling systems, and central heating plant im· provements. The last stage covers nHsceilaneous modifications of the whole program and a monitoring system to help assure efficient operation of the system. Along with approving these three stage ,proposals, the Board also appr<Jved the funding for these improvements which will total approximately one million dollars. Eventually this program will create $250.000 worth of savings on energy per year. ·For any real savings to occur the whole campus must stay keenly aware of tbe energy use and must monitor its use carefully. Trustees Davenport and Bennett Finatly, the inc~eas.e in the iEF budget for the coming year was W()ndered at. The Budget and Audit Committee was told by the administration that all figures in these areas represented carefUl planning and reflected campus Pl:\ildence and priorities. The budget was o.k.'d on the strength of these assurances. AlSo in the 1979-80 budget was $92,000 to fund the \Pilot Project\ of a three part energy conservation program ap- 'lbe BDard also discussed plansfor r~furbiJ?l}i9,~ (iaris and Library F1elds. BidS have been submitted and it was felt that the · two lowest should be compared for the renovation job. The plans were modified slightly to place added em- phasis on . Garis Field, wtiile only modest improvements. will be made on the latter. Con- swuctiDn is slated tQ begin on May 1, 1979. The agenda of the Academic Affairs Committee was mostly occupied with issues which had been seen by that group before. The College's response to the Election The April 19, 1979 meeting of the student forum included a moderate amount of busmess to be attended to. A represe11tative of the A,lbaPY cp~pt~r of :the lndepend~pt.:. ~tlJ.~ent CQ~ljtion, a studerit~mferest lobbying group, requested that the Forum participate in, and generate student Support for, some panel discussions on lobbying and financial aid due to take place in the Albany Legislative Building, Hearing Rovm A, on Monday, April 23. Further information may be obtained by calling 4:36-7G59 fro.m 10 a.m. to 5 p.m. and 439- 78~ in the evening. 'I'he issue of establishing dates for the process of electing next year's student officers also came before the Forum. President Steve Richards suggested that petitions should be issued Apr. 31; cQllected by May l1; elections held on May . 15 with run()ffs, if necessary. scheduled for May 17. These dates were approved by the Forum. It was also voted that the Wendy Bevnstein Award, a plaque awarded by the senior members of the Forum to a student in recognition of conummity involvement, will be continuedand that money for it will be allocated by the Tax Committee. One agenda item included a discussion of last Saturday's colossal festive event, FitzHugh Ludlow Da_y. According to the Committee Applications Available Committee applications for the 1979-80 academic year are now available, through May 4, in the Student Activities Office outerlounge. These applications are for committees of the Student Forwn · and the All- College Senate. Committees of the Forum are composed totally of students and deal with matters specifically relating to students. Senate committees are composed of students, .faculty, administration and staff members, and deal with. matters pertaining to more than one campus constitutency. Selection of committees is always competitive. It is not, however, impossible to be selected to a committee because there are · ap- proximately 100 positions available on about 30 com- mittees. The Committee on Committees, which is responsible for selecting students for all committees on which students have appointive membership, screens ap- plicants on the basis of their applications first. Applications bear only the applicant's ID number to increase objectivity. After the first screening, names are attached to the applications, and the selection process continues. If interviews are required, liPPlicants will be notified. All decisions will be announced at the end of the term. Anyone applying for any of the chainnanship or liaison positions must explain why they believe they are qualified. There is a separate question on the application which asks for this information, and you ·will not be considered for the special positions Wlless you answer the special question. A separate application must be submitted for each com- mittee, in duplicate. Separate applications are needed so that applicants• specific qualifications for specific committees can be enwnerated. Duplicate applications, either photocopied or written twice, are needed to speed up the wbole process, as every member of the Committee on Committees must read every application. . All apl)licatioils are due in the Student Activities inner office byFriday, May 4 at 4': 30 pm. No extensions will be allowed. In the event that proposed changes in the college and student government systems are ap- proved, new applications may be required in the fall. A short description of each committee follows. tf there are any qu~stions, contact mem- bers of the Committee on Committees. Committee Functiow COLLEGE COMMITTEES: Admissions Committee Advises on the criteria used in accepting students and passes upon applications for ad· mission. Class of 1980 only. Atllletic Committee Plans for an integrated set of athletic programs which in- clude inter.collegiate, in- tramural, recreationa. and general physical education programs. Bookstore CommiUee Works out plans and pcJlicies which relate directly to the cannpus store. Seeks out opinions of various con- stiuencies on campus with respect to the operations of the store. Provides advice to the Bookstore Manager. Campus Committee Ccnsiders the physical con- diti()n of the campus and makes recommendations to the Planning and Priorities Committee. Reviews the con- duct of the college regarding its impact on the campus and local environment. Career Planning Committee Responsible for the development of an integrated and complete set of programs with respecl to career coun- seling and placement. College Resources Committee Meets with the Vice President for College Resources to con- sider ways in which that office can be helpflll to the total campus effort. Formulates fund raising plans and policies. Commencement Committee Plans Commencement Day activities and acts as a search committee for a com- mencement speaker. This is a l wo-year position. Class of 1981 only. Commi1;tee On Faculty Reviews requests for faculty renewal, promotion, tenure, and salary levels. Considers policies and 'plans with respect to faculty and faculty development. Committee 011 Student Life Responsible for programs and plans for the quality of student life and behavior on . campus. One member is ap- pointed to the liaison position on the Student Forwn, and one member is appointed to the Conduct Ombudsman Com- mittee. Conduct Ombudsman Com- mittee Passes judgment on f{rievances of violations of Contmued on page 7 program's co·ordinator, Joe Zolner, the event was a response to people who corn· plained of a winter-term lack of campus enthusiasm. Its goal wasto blend~ome Union histon in witb an event which {lreated an atmosphere which en- courages all groups of people to participate in a festive activity. According t<J Zolner, it was coincidental that FitzHugh Ludlow day and Accepted Candidates Day fell on Satur· day. When Forum V.P. Murra} Levison inquired into the fun- ding of the event, Zolner replied that Dean Kellett authorized up to $1 ,000 to be used for the event. The organizers hoped that their two sale items-T-shirts and barbecue-would defray the cost and, perhaps, make the net cost of the day $1,000 or less. If the day costs more than $1,000, funds will come from student tax money via the Social Committee budget. Next, Levison questioned Jeff Winter, chairman of the Con- cert Committee, about any possible prt>blems with the committee and about the lack of concerts. Winter replied that there were really not many bands around except bar bands. Also, \bands have not been eager about performing in Schenectady,\ he said. He added that the committee didn't want to have a concert just for the sake of having a concert. As a result of not having a concert winter term, the committee has plenty of money left, and it is hoped by the committee that they will be able to put the money into an outside spring concert, Winter said. The O.K. for an outdoor concert has been !obtained from Dean Kellett. Levison suggested to Winter that the committee make its position clearer to the college community. The next items discussed by the Forum were resolutions brought up by Andrew Wisoff. According to Wisoff, the resolutions would solve problems which Mountebanks and Dance have been having~ The problems are concerned with questions of money from Student Tax being used for groups that give academic Continued on page 7

, ' • • .• t- • ~ • .J' ~ .,. • I ' I J ~~' ,.__ t .._ , ~ I I •, OONOORDIJJJNS18, April ~~~ 1979 d .. . .I E. 1torta s Spring Fever Union surrendered to Spring Fever this weekend as the memory of a most colorful alumnu::; was revived. Fitz Hugh Ludlow Day provided the little needed excuse that made Saturday a play day for most of us here·. The bad weather jinx that had seemed to arrive with the accepted candidat~s in :recent years war;; not felt. No armtwisting was necessary to get people involved in volleyball games, eating 25 cent hotdogs and hamburgers, flying kites,. or listening to music under the cloudless sky. Fitz Hugh would probably have been disappointed, as were many stadents, by the unavailability of beer during the afternoon.. This was undoubtably in deference to the accepted candidates, most of whom were under~age. The more industrious types tracked. .down 25 cents drafts at the Alumni Gym, courtesy of Delta Cbi'$ Dance Marathon, which unfortunately seemed sparsely attended. Delta Gamma's Olympics highlighted the af- ternoon,. drawing a good sized crowd of spectators. An open cocktail ,party, sponsored by the Women's Network, also added to the festivities. The fireworks on Garris F.ield. Saturday night provided the per.fect capper for the day. · Luckily, this was not the end of Spring Term en- tertainment. We ean look forward to Parent's Weekend, Sigma Chi's Clarnba~e, Camp Union, and hopefully lots more sunshine. Improvements The last\issue of Ooncordiensis featured two front· page articles related to Union Athletics. We feel this · type of publicity can only benefit the Athletic Program here. We were h~artened to learn of the athletic consideration in the endowment drive, the realiZation of a need for administrative leadership, the possibllity of a Liberal Learning requirement in Physical Education, the increasing athletic par· ticipation of females, and the recognition of the physical condition of Union's athletic facilities. by ILENE WE~ERMAN Most everyone is aware that the Student Tax Committee is a branch of the student govern- ment re~ponsible for allocating fl.Uld& generated by the student activity fee to a wiQ.e variety of student rwi organizations, from the Social Committee to the Frisbee Club. Unfortunately, not everyone is aware of and ;;.greeable to the rules under which this distribution should take place. In tbe· recent past, committee procedures have been .plagued by policy in,- consistencles and ad- ministrative irregularities. On the surface the allocation process seems to . be a fairly straight forward one. The club head submits an itemized budget covering eXpected ex· penditures and income for the entire year. Requests for capital eqUipment greater th~ $500 are submitted to the Phmning and Priorities Committee several months earlier .. The Tax Committee's final allotments are supposedly made in terms .of a zer«rbased budget. ·.CUrrent club mem- bership is a major factor, although the club'S previous activities and contributions to Union's reputation also play a decisive role. It is not unreasonable to assume that many club leaders might be unfamiliar with these finer points of budget preparation. I refer specifically to the case of Chris Lindsey, head of the Modern Dance Club (a struggling organiz~tion in existence for nine years with approximately 85 active members). Lindsey's request to committee officials for help in writing his budget was met with the reply of \we will all work together\. The only help he received came in the form of a 400 percent hacking apart of the budget he finally submitted. In fact, many discrepancies existed in the way the' Dance Club's • b\iqget :was reduced. Requests· for new bQoks and journals were labeled ·a library responsibility, altboughthe club has received magazine . sub- scriptions in the past. Lindsey's efforts, to purchase. a new $1200 dance floor for the club were stifled' when he was told (several months too lat~::) that such a purchase would bave to be approved· by Planning and PrioritieS; nevertheless, an altem!lte request to rent the floor twice,. each time at a cost of $600, was approved. Finally, Lindsey's $5,000 budget was cut to $1,800;;.at the end of the committees session be was told his club Would receive no more than $1,400:.,...in tbe end, the Modern Dance Club received $1,020, (Co~eordiensis, March 1; 19.7:9). Lindsey was never personally notified of the results. It can be. argued that what precedes is a bad example-the Dance Club can be linked to the current Arts Department controversY and is one of the few clubs containing members Who do not pay the student activity fee. But even if we go so far as to say that proper procedure was followed in this case, there are nwnerol,IS other examples which suggest that it may be the allocation process itself that contains inhercmt conflicts. Firstly, if club membership is a major factor in figuring monet~ry distributions, why is · it that Hillel, an organ~ation thatruns at least six aU campus events per term and has over 150 active members, is denied funding solely on the basis that it is a religious organization? Why is it that Men's Glee Club receives abnost twice as much support as Women's Glee Club (men get $13,000 to women's $68880) when they have roughly the same membership? If. the answer is based on previous acti:v.itjes and expenses, the process seems somewhat cir- cular-how is a club ever supoo posed to increase its activities witho~t the money necessary to -do so? Finally, on a more disturbing note, there must be something wrong with a system that does. not efficiently proVide either a mechanism for feedback or a forum, for CQmplaints. There are some brigpt spots. New Tax Committee chairman Mike Brand ~ems confident, amtious to forget abO tit the past, , and ready to .proc~ed with the llusiness at hanil. A. propqsal before the St!ldent Forum (March 8, 1979') to increase the size Qf the commitee to seven members was pa!!aed, which might ~U~w fo~ Closer scrUtiny by ass1gnmg different ty.p~ of budgets to different members. And a Finance Subcommittee of the S~udent Forum has recently begun an evaluation of present allocation procedures. , Ac{!ording to Brand, \In the past, the committee has been run like a dictati;lrship.\ This appears to be so-of tbe club heads that I spoke to, many were reluctant to make , definitive statements as to tlleir experiences with the Tax Committee, presumably because they feared for their club's financial life. An unresponsive committee cap be of little h!:!lp to the Club~ it is supposedly supporting. But perhaps all this is in the process of changing. Admittedly, the 'fax Committee does function on some degree .of preconception, but Brand stressea that the key word now is \flexibility\ and that any new, legitimate requests by clubs will be con- sid~red. .Any Union athlete could list several experiences with inadequate facilities. It is a shame that these athletes have been represented poorly in past years. Planning and Priorities Committee member Aubrey might approach a Union athlete and inform him that his commitment is less than that of past athletes. Aubrey might find that many Union athletes are committed to at least one sport year-round. We feel his comment is an unjust generalization. His reference to a populace that ''is not spectator· oriented\ can be rebutted through the simple idea that everybody likes a winner, but few like a loser. Recent Union Hockey and Basketball crowds demonstrate this idea. We do notthink any part of the Athletic Program here is in such a condition to warrant considering the termination of in· tercollegiate competition. Letters_ We appeal to the Board. of Trustees. Each spring Union athletes hear rumors of improvements for the next year--a new swimming pool, a stadium with an artificial surface, and the list goes on; the Board of Trustees can try to change the rumors to more than the hQpeless dreams of an often discouraged Union athlete. Editors-in-chief News Editors Layout Editors Feature Editors· Associate Editor Business Editors Classified Editor Arts Editor Sports Editors Copy Jl:ditor Photography Editor Fine Lines Editor Staff: Douglas Rosenfeld, Sara Simmons PaulFeinsot, Melissa Cragin MattNagorsky, Dan Wojnilower Sue Earnhart, Donna Creeley David Rubin Carole Reinig~ Gina Torrisi Roberta Moss Cindy Aranow Matt Kayne, Mark Palomba . Pam Ryan. PatWrignt JanDeDeka Pat Condello, EUenV anDyke, Debbe Damrell, Sue Marr, Joanne Malin CONCORDIENSIS is published every Thursday by the student body of Union College, Carnegie Hall, Schene~ta~y, New York, 12308; Publications Office: Susquehanna Publications, Inc., syz Reynolds Ave., Oneonta, New York ~3820, (607) 432-6737. Ente~e~ m the Schenectady Post Office as thrrd class matter. SubscriptiOn rate: 35 cents per copy, $10 .per year, delivered anywhere in the Unite.d States. Library Misuse To the St~dents of Union College Concordiensis. \Open Letter from Schaffer Library\ As director of the library, I am responsible for preserving material in the library, or circulating them legally outside the library. The library has services, as well as materials, of course, but the misuse of materials concerns me now. The instances cited below will be followed by the alternatives to the present system that I am considering. The library faculty and staff welcome your suggestions for other alter• natives. 1. Between January 15 and February 15, 1979, the following items were misused Alter- native: Close the Night Study. 1-15-79-'foilet paper holder off wall-Men's Room, Night Study 1-1M9-Toilet paper holder off wall-Men's Room, Night Study 1-25-79-2 .Toilet paper holders off wall!\Men's Room, Third Floor 1-30·79--Leg off chair- Mezzainine (probably ac- Cidental) 2-5-79--Broken Desk-Night Study 2--13.:79-Toilet paper holder off wall-Men's Room, Night Study 2·13-79-Brokeu Chair-Night Study 2-15-79-Broken chair-Night Study Toilet paper container half off wall-Men's Room, Night Study. 2. Monda . A ril 7 evenin books were thrown from the Phi Beta Kappa Room to persons waiting below. Alternative: Keep library windows locked. (Temperature control has not satisfactory since the library was constructed. Maintenance has been attempting to correct the situation. Can one of you temperature-control engineers help?) · 3. During 1978-79 academic year, temporary signs w.ere mounted to test possibilities for perm~nent signs. Most signs were stolen. Still, beca\QSe of many r.equests, we plan to mount permanent signs. Alternative: H they are stolen, we will not r.eplace them. l do not see librarians as police officers. I would ap- preciate having · the Student Forwn construct a frameowrk within which students will both refrain from irre·sponsible behavior and urge others to refrain. I hereby request that the Student Forum discuss library misuse at its next meeting, and resolve. the issue ps soon as possible. Jean·C, PeUetiere cc: S. IUchards, Pres. Dean Paula Brownlee Dean Robert Kellett Lorraine Marra, Corr. Student Act. Frustration To the Editor: This letter is an expression of built up frustration and anger from myself, and I think highly representative of . the sen- timents of many freshman on this campus. These feelings are directed toward both the ad· ministration and the R.S.V.P. food service. It is apparent that agreements made between the · above mentioned have been made for the benefit of R.S.V.P. and not the students, the people whose interests the ad- ministration supposedly represents. · The first, and most diStressing problem is the quality of the food. The range of student evaluations of the service go from di~ple.al!ure to disgust. M~y students, in· cluding myself, have often found it necessary to sup- plement their diets becaU$e the food has been inedible. However, )et us not belabor the obvious. If our hands must be tied in trying to improve the quality of the food, then why must our feet be tied in our ability to choose alternative plans such as fraternity meal plans or cooldng for oneself? The rule that all freshmen must st,ay on the dreaded West 19 mealplan.isnot at all consistent with my conception of a \liberal\ institution. Are not most Union freshman mature and intelligent enough to make their own decisions about where they can eat. The explanation that R.S.V.P. insisted on this freshman one year stipulation is simply unacceptable. In, the highly competitive food service in- dustry, I am confident that an agreement with another food service could have been reached without this clause. The basic question is. should Continued on page 14. by 'PAUL On Wednesd: United States rules, in the ca Lando, that themselves iii jourQ&listS can reveal their \I intent, and c regardto prep~ story. In a 6-:l reversed the ; court decisicm, CBS televi:don Landi> mu.st a concerning h maklng spe judgement~. Lieute:mmt 1 Herbert brou~ dollar suit a,g;: the t~levtsion Wallace, 8fld,· the 1.97.3 broa Minutes\ segq senmg of. c~ Herbert beli program, 8l!C article in Afla Lando and al~ suit, dl.scr~dite his statew.en~~ war crjm~s wh reported tQ hi~ In the articl his own . in~ol terest in the 1 that Herbert \ perfeet soldier and Vietnam. driven out of career ruined to prevent hi~ concealing wa the VietnaD thinking that : \onto the- next hero.\ persuac story, He. \w~ that Herbert Winter An t Recently thE Greece came participants end with n something not spring when program. Oll periences, for were ex.cellent developed the the course o1 nothing was ~ the way of ou periences we .f should encour: However, s1 contrast wit! experiences a experiences a the adminis College Year program. Th• terribly dissaJ expectedto go nothing wit academics, bll they went qUit regard to th year. In the ct week term, wE terms, pop-qui and wrote onE We carried is the .case at Archeology Literature in ~ \Greece Toda on the part of Art and Arche for only seven and her ferv1 seemed to indi prompting · \Junior Al\chE week we met ancient Greek personal peru felt that the b these lecture: rWining. snea

fJONOORDiliJNSIEJ~ April B6~ 1979 Page s Supreme Court Check~ Journalists liy \PAUL -F'EINSOT . On Wednesday, April 18, the United States Supreme Court rules, in the case. of Herbert vs. Lando, that in defending themselves iii a libel suit, jourqal.istS can .be compelled to reveal their \beliefs opinions, intent, and conclusions'' in regardto,preparation of a news story. In a 6-3 vote, the court reversed the Federal appeals court decision, and dictated that CBS televi::don producer Barty Lando mtJst an!lwer questions concerning his reasons for maktng specific editorial judgemeilts. Lieuteiumt Colonel Anthony Herbert brougbt .. a 44 mUUon dollar Sui~ against Mr. Lando, the . t!3levi$iQn networ:~... Mike Wallace,. a~d,·a re~rter aft~r the 197.3 broadcast .. of \ a \60 Min~tes\ se_grp.ent, titled, urrlle Seumg cf, Colonel Herbert.\ Herbert believed that the program, ~d. a subsequent article in Atlantic Monthly, by Lando and also named in . the suit, discre.dited the. veracity of his statew,~nts in reference to war crim~s which be clailn.l:}d he repof!ed to his sup,eriors. . In the article, Lando traces- his own . involvement and in- terest· in the case; lie related that Herbert \seemed to be the perfect soidier, a hero in Korea . and Vietnam. Then he was driven out of the AJ::my, his career ruined because he tried to prevent his superiors. from concealing war crimes against the Vietnamese.\ Lando, _thinking that he bad stumbled onto the-next \great American hero,\ persuaded CBS to do the story, He ''was still convinced that Herbert was telling the tr.uth\ despite certain \discvepancies\ in Herbert's claims which led Mike wanace to believe that the Colonel was lying. After further in- vestigation on hiS own, Lando also began to doubt tbese ''shocking\ assertions. Herbert bad stated in ms best- sellillg book, Soldier, that Colonel J. Ross Franklin had ''personally ordered him .. l>y field:.radio\ to tllrnhis priscm:ers over to the South Vieutamese Police. These prisoners \wet\e subsequi)ntly murdered ac· cording t.o Herbert; whl) s~:vs he \flew directlY · ba'(k to headquarters. t!i ·report the crime to · Franklin}' ThiS suppo.sedly oecurred ()n February 14, 1969, but it was l~itter . documented by _Lando,_ that Franklin was in Hawaii . until February 16.. · · ~ndo cites fifteen ~parate instances in which Herbert was confW!ed on his· facts,.· stretching the truth; or tellingan outright lie. Still ' 1 interested,' .. altllo\lgh \confused. the · netwoi\k -· . ' ,_ . ' . producer went ahead with the program' and later Wl\Ote the story. In his essay be related that \the press, wllich lf,lng bad l>een negligent abour dealing with the question of American war crfrnes, found in Herbert a heroic figure, a martyr throl!gh whom to dramat~e the issue. But we (CBS) bought mmelves a martyr with feet M c,:lay.\ The libel suit which im- mediately followed this publication was not ruled on by the Supreme Court on Wed- nesday. The court was faced with . .a more imwrtanl()roblem of deciding if it was legal under the First and Fourteenth A-mendments to the Con- Winter Term In Greece; stitution, to p~;obe into a jour- nalist's \state of mind.\ Justice ~yron delivered the opillion of the court, and he was joined in th,e majority by . Chief Justice Warren E. Burger and Associate Justices . Harry A. Blackmun, Lewiss F. Powell, Jr., William H. Rehnquist, and Johtt Paul Stevens. · The libel suit which im- mediately followed this publication was not ruled on by the Supreme Court on Wed- nesday. The <:ourt was faced with a_more important problem of deciding if it waslegal under the First and Fourteenth Amendments to the · Con· stitution, to probe into a jour- nalist's \state of mind.\ Justice Byron White d1;11ivered the opinion ofthe court, and' he was joined in the majority by Chief Justice Warr~n E. Burger and Associate Justices Harry A. Blackmun. Lewis F. Powell, Jr., William H. Rehnqwst, and John. Paul Stevens. In the opinion, Justice White contends that the court was faced with the \question\ of allowing the press \fUrther protection' , . . wben saed for defamation thCin has hitherto been recognized.\ He refers to the 1964 New York Times vs. Sullivan case, in which it was decided that in a libel suit against journalists a plaintiff would have to prove that \actual malice.\ was intended by the defendant. Justice White states that to disallow \inquiry into the thoughts, opinions, and conclusions of the publisher\ tends to preclude the success of proving \falsehood.'' Times columnist J.ames Reston tho_ught the court's decision to be in \reaction\ to the1964case. JtWtice WWiamJ. Brennan dissenting in the Herbert case, with Justices Thurgood Marshall and Potter Stewart, gave the opinion in Times vs. Sullivan. He wrote: ••• We consider this ease ~gainst the background of a profound national commitment to the principle tbat debate on P1lblic issues should be ttnbihibited, robust ~nd wide- open, and that it may well in- clu~ vehement, caustic, and sometiJnes unpleasantly sharp attacks on g4»vernment and public officials • . . In dissenting in Herbert vs. Lando, Justice :Brennan recognized the \existence\ of an editorial privilege to be significantly \important to justify some incidental sacrifice of evidentiary material.\ He further indicated that it would be permissible to explore the thoughts of a newsman, bat admitted his reasoning · was paradoxical as he stated that \deliberative and policymaking processes\ are protected under editorial privilege. Justice Marshall was more adamant in liis dissent. He contended that any pretrial discovery of \the substance of the editorial conversation\ would have to be foreclosed. He said that ''the threat of un- checked discovery may well stifle the collegial discussion esl$ential to sound editorial dynamics.\ Newsmen around the ~ountry expressed their fears about what. they consider a violation of the editorial process. Jack C. Landau, the director of the Reporters Committee for Freedom of the Press, felt that \the Supreme Court seems to consider any societal interest more important than the First Amendment.\ Times columnist Tom Wicker called the decision a \remarkable ruling\ which 1 'has Wldoubtedly 'chilled' the willingnEss of the press\ t() print anything controversial enough to \result in an ex- pen~ive and time-consuming libel suit.\ Wicker; acting in defense of the press, attacked Justice White's \confident assertion\ that this ruling will prevent \false or proba·bly false\ information from being printed. He regarded tliis as something which could not be proved, and he stated that \no one will ever know how many important so1,1rce!l d.o not .give information .because their confidentiality cannot be guaranteed.\ It remains to be seen how journalists will react in respect to their newsmaking processes, and. how sources are going to feel about risking an \artificial confidence.\ The Herbert case was ,remanded to the lower· court, and therefore will be decided after Lando produces the required evidence. Finally, the First Amendment of the Constitution may be in danger if the \Nixon court,\ and future court!!, do not interpret it as it is written. Alex.ander Meiklejohn. teacher and philosopher, wrote that, \we Americ~ms, as a body politk, may destroy or limit our freedom whent>ver wr choose.\ Is this something which we choose 1 o do? An Open Letter From The Participants t Recently the term abroad in Greece came to an end. The participants approached the end with xni:x:ed feelings, something not anticipated last spring when applying .for the program. Our personal ex- periences, for the most part, were ex-cellent. Fortunately, we developed the attitude during the course of the term that nothing was going to stand in the way of our having the ex- periences we felt a term abroad should encourage. However, standing in stark contrast with our personal experiences are our academic experiences and contact with the administration of the College Year in Athens (CYA) program. The program was terribly dissapointirtg. No one expectedto go to Greece and do nothing with regard to academics, but we do feel that they went quite overboard with regard to the program this year. In the course of the eight week term, we took twelve mid- terms, pop-quizzes, and-or tests and wrote one paper. We carried three courses, as is the .case at Union, .. Art and Archeology\ \Ancient Literature in Translation' 1 , and \Greece Today''. Due to illness on the part of the professor, the Art and Archeology course met for only seven of the eight weeks and her fervor in instructing seemed to indicate that she was prompting us to become \Junior Archeologists\. Once a week we met at a site to give ancient Greek artifacts our own personal perusal. It was often felt that the best way to attend these lectures was in Adidas rWining. sneaker and jogging togs as we literally ran through the leftovers of a period of ancient Greek history in an hour and a half. We covered a vast amount of material in this time and the final test essay said simply, \write a handbo()k of Greek sculpture tracing it fr9m the Archaic to Late Classical periods including social a11d cultural factors having impact on these developments\ .. For the uninitiated, this is equivalent to saylng on say an architectural fin~:~l, Write a handbook of architEctural developments froni . H1.e caveman period to the World Trade Centers. Perhaps the comparison is a little too harsh, but one can gatlter that this covers too much grrnmd in too much detail. In addition to the final we had two mid-terms and the professor ne~self admitted that the course is usually taught in fifteen weeks. Although tested on it. we never even made it to pottery, the mainstay of Greek . archeological artifacts. For the Ancient Greek Literature C()Urs'e, we (!overed twelve Greek plays and\()r epic poems in the course of eight weeks including the Iliad 11nd the Odyssey in two weeks, alloting three or four c;lasses to the tliad and two or three to the Odyssey. After the first two week!! we covered each ()f the remaining plays in one or two of 'our one and a half hour classes. When asked by one student bow the professor could expect everyone to be prepared for class every day, she was astonished tG think th:at someone might not be. The course included one mid-term (the results· of whicb were a perfect bell curve, induding two F's, really conducive to positive experiences) and a final. The final was eigbt quote identifications (pick six) and one essay handed out the day we left for our archeological trip L() the island of Crete. The essay was given verbally in class and when asked to repeat it, the professor replied, \Don't worry, you don't !lave to know the question word for word\ and refused tQ repeat it. . Our third course \Greece Today\ was a three part <:ourse, a melange. The. fil'st part covered Greek History from about 1700-1944. The second part. consisted of the personal im- pressions of an attorney llolding ' dual citizenship with Greece and Great Britain dealing with the period, 1944 to present and the third part covered con- temp<}rary Greek literature and peetry. As each section of the co1.1rse ended we were met with a test with the exception of the last part during which we had two quizzes and a paper. For the most part, this seemed to be the fairest of any of the three courses. The tests were reasonable and the material was covered relatively ef- fectively and painlessly. The only exception occurred dliring the middle section of the course. As the professor was an out- standing lecturer and gave. a fairtest, we were surprised that upon receipt of the graded tests we were greeted with simply an arbitrafY number at the top of each test along with a grade (no plusses, only minuses and whole letters) and no comments. He was also Ullavailable. for ex- planation after termination of the course. Our encounters with the admin1stration of CY A were equally dissapointing. Petty bureaucratic rules, ineptitude and disorganization were the order of the day. Their biggest problem was with regard to scheduling organization. Our fitsL site ti·~p w~s scheduled and rescheduled three or four times, ultimately we were given definitive plans only a week or two in advance. Classes and · tests were rescheduled in- discriminatelY with regard to .free days and weekends, a further testament to CY A poor planning. During the day, c}asses met in such a way that free afternoon time was very Umited'making \on one's own\ museum visits difficult as they closed relatively early in the day. The ultimate folly concerning scheduling occw-red during the final two weeks of the term. We had· a quiz in \Greece Today\ on ruesday (effectively .p11tting a wet blanket on our last free weekend) ·and a ~ll,per due on Thursday. Our trip to Crete started Thursd~y e.vening, ending with our return to Athens on the following Tuesday morning at 6:30 a.m. Our fir$! final was supposed to be on Wednesday at 9:00 a.m. andthe second on Friday at the same time. F'Ortunately our petition for postponement. of the exam until Thursday was ac- cepted or it would have left us with a less than twenty-four hour reading period following the trip (also consider a work filled week prior to . the trip) before our archeologic~l final. The trip to · Crete ·was in· terestinll and fun, but tlte spector of finals on Wednesday and Friday did take a lot out of the potential the trip bad. One · must admit though, the groap as a whDle were real troopers and capable of recognizing the fact that Sunday would be the last night for us to be together. We .rallied and made the most of it. Olll' initial intention in going to Gree~e was not to spend it in intensive study each evening of the week and lop off one day of (lur wet;!kcndsto study more. We did not go to Greece to spend our time in a library reading books we can read any time. Granted a certain exposur~ · to the literature while living there can enhance our experiences, but the work load was a little outrageous. rt is not often any ()f us havE the chance to go to Europe and in applying we were under the assumption that Union was interested in giving us the opportunity to broaden the scope of our education, not just instruct us. It was the feeling among many people in the groap that our term suffered for the in- descretions of last year's group, as they at times were perhaps a little more enthusiastic than situations called for. Perhaps Union and CY A felt that more testing and a greater work load would give us less opportunity to be \rowdy\ and therefore would keep us \in line\. We suggest that instead, they disillusioned a group of students and even went so far as to pat us under undue pressure that ended up manifesting itself in Continue'! ()n page 9

Page 4 · OONOORDIENSIS, April !6, 19\19 Union Views: Fitz Hugh Ludlow Day A Success by JIM DAVIS Union's history is probably as rich as any college'$. Those of us who gQ here may forget that, and so last Saturday's Fitz Hugh Ludlow Day served as a . good reminder. But what was even more noteworthy about the activities, honoring the author of the College's alma mater as the focal point of Union's \llistorical Day,\ was that it helped ensure that the College's future will also be strong. That's because last Saturday was also AcGepted Candidates Day, a chance for high school seniors who are considering coming here in the fall to take a look at the campus. And they couldn't have seen it on a better day. The weather was outstanding. More im- portant, plenty of people were outside taking part in the day's events. With the Delta Gamma Olympics, WRUC providing amplified music from a remote set-up by the Nott Memorial, and a barbecue going on in front of Jackson's Gardens, not to mention a goodly number of people catching some rays from the warmest sun of the ~chenectady spring, the College exuded a rare kind of liveliness. Some people with whom I talked commented that the potential members of the Class of 1983 (how time flies!) shouldn't be fooled into thinking they were seeing Union on a typical day. While that may be true-from a purely climatic standpoint, the local area rarely reaches pride. In honoring the in- stitution's legacy, we also added to it. We all .know that's the sort of atmosphere adrnissioi'ls per- sonnel promise interested Let the Grecian dream of his sacred stream, And sing of the brave adorning, That Phoebus weaves from his laurel leaves At the golden gates of morning, But the brook that bounds through Union's grounds Gleams bright as the Delphic waters, And a prize as fair as a god may wear Is a dip from our Alma Mater. sucil heights-it shouldn't be, as these people seemed to be saying, something we have to make excuses for. Rather, when we put on a · performance like last Satur- day's, it sholil.d be a point of students that they will be stepping into if they choose to attend Union. We've got every right to engage in the kind of celebra&i.on we did last weekend when we make good on those claims. That this year's Accepted Candidates Day, r~instituted this year after a year's hiatus, went so well is the comb.ination of a certain amount of good fortune and a good deal of hard work. Those who put ih the effort to make the event ex- traor·dinary deserve everyone's thanks. Because we're the ·ones who will ultimately realize most of · the .benefits; · · , .If such a display as last Saturday's was impressive to members of the Union com- J11Unity, and perhaps even moved them to raise their estimation of this place by a couple of notches as it did for me, then it stands to reason that those thinking of comirJ.g here were sblrllarly affected. If, on the basis of what they saw last weekend, some top- notch candidates choose to attend Union, then the· College and everyone associated with it has to gain. Union's visitors are the people w1;lo will be responsible for staging future such displays that both add to the College's self\esteem and contribUte to its reputation. Sure, what most prospective UColl students saw cpmprised little more than a first look and impression. But· it ·was a strongly positive one. And, despite what anyone may have said, the impression needn't be inaccurate. The chances for this ·h~p­ pening were surely increas~d because last weekend's campus visitors alSo included Union's newly · appointed President, John S. Morris, here in one of his first official capacities, to attend a: meeting 9f ~he College Board of Tru.stees. Be, too, had to react favorably.· It's · .s:ymbolic that · his visit coincided with one 'of the College's best. days in the past year-and-a-half. His adininist:.;ation will open another chapter in Union's history. Accordingly, there's another analogy we can hope to draw: Ui)ion's best days, like . the best days of spring, are. still to c.ome. · . >. \It's incredible.\ . . I've never seen anything like it on campus. I hope it becomes a regular occurence. '' Women Present lntel:l~ectual ·Cabaret byPAMR.YAN As part of their Seventh Annual Woman's W~ek, the Women's Network sponsored an Intellectual Cabaret on the evolving role of women around the world. Speakers from several different countries discussed both. the traditional and the current position of women in their respective countries, and also related their impressions of American women. The speakers included Helene Smith, director of the International Center in Albany; Gunilla Gado, from Sweden; Mohammed Raihani, from MorQcco; Karen Astorga, from Nicaragua; and Rowena Yeung, from Hong Kong. According to Ms. ::imith, Westerners, especially Americans, tend to judge other peoples by their own values. She feels that one must first con- sider the cUlture and traditions of eacli c()untry, along with the values and expectations of the women in these countries, before one makes any judgment on .the position of the women in these societies. Ms. Gado, speaking of the role of women in Sweden, said that although the traditional role of women was that of the child- rearer and homemaker, in recent years this has changed. Partly because of the Social Democrats, but also because of simple social evolution, the equality of women, the right to work, to get an education, and the sharing of household duties have become generally ac- cepted. The advent of govern- ment subsidized day-care centers and professional babysitters and has also done a great deal to enable women to break away .from their traditional roles. . In Morocco, according to Mohammed Raihani, great gains have been made in im- proving the status of women. Raihani stressed the difference between Islam, as a religioi'l, which tries t<i raise women to equality., and Arab. tradition, in which women were accorded the lowest soCial position. He feels that great gains have been made by the women in these ., -· ..-- .. - ~ ... ~ .... \\ - ~ ............ - ' countries based on their own tradition and valu,es, and that it is unfair to judge their progress based on Western ~tandards because l>f the different culture and traditions. Nicaragua, which can be classified as a developing country, rather than developed, as Sweden, or underdeveloped, as is Morocco, cannot be regarded in the same light as either, ·according to Katen Astorga. The traditional role of woman as childbearer and keeper of the house is predominant, btit the woman is greatly respected, has a great deal of say in domestic decisions, and conttols the family's finances. However, although greater erlucational opportunities have arisen for women, especially at the elementary and high school levels, W()men are stjll generally not accepted in jobs and are criticized for aban- doning their ~raditional roles• Rowena Yeung, speaking on the role of women in Hong Kong stressed not only the predominance of the traditional role .of women in Hong Kong, but the almost absolutely unquestioned acceptance o.f this role by the WOIJlen themselves; Women, she stated, are ex- pected to be submissive and · nonachievement oriented, and are rarely given the chance for higher education. Their main Continued on page 13 ' ' Com1 Gove byPAULFEll In the fall the s1 drafting committee to revise the exist which had been ur during the Bo: ministration. The presented the first d plan to the campu ment. In the winter second .draft will around May 25, and~ further discussion w before probab plementation early Professor Byron 1 committee chairmiu that there was not .n: written oppositio proposal. ProfeSJ: Ward, also on the concurred with Nichols, indicating t the unhappiness ovE was expressed by a perc~ntage of the f~ contended that it amount of ~<rhetor statement that \ini the most fire.\ He b• the s~ond .draft ~ \simpler version, tJ presented and ~ges I The Gommittee m• with President -ele< ME's Stud~ byDEBBEDM This past wee American Soc Mechanical Engine• Mid-Atlantic Regioll Speaking Contest w by seven Union Collt and Professor Willi of the ME Depar contest, an annual this year at Lehigh in Bethlehem, Pe: together mec engineering student schools as Clarkson Institute of T University of University of :Puffal1 Cornell, Union, RPl Lehigh, University sylvania, Penn. S ceton, Howard 1 Lafayette, and Washington Univer days of competitioll Each schdol senru students to compe much of an audience get. Students give minute oral pres€ research they ha\ some area of r engineering, us11 plemented with ' (slides 1 charts, c judges, all p: members of ASMl the contestants on tl1 their talk, the use: thoroughness of the the presentation its~ nervous, speak cl and how accmte,staJnt handles l anl~w~~\ period (be pi IJSC:Ime tricky questi(J 16 st1 the < thirte conlpe1t1t1<1n ·wa were good, anc rather high at on Sat•

OONOORDililNSIS, April 26, 1979 Page 5 Drafts Proposal by PAUL FEINSOT Morris, and they discovered that a recent governance proposal at Colgate, under part authorship of Morris, was strikingly similar. Con- sequently, Mr. Morris felt quite comfortable with the overall plan. Professor Nichots in- dicated that ''nothing will be proposed which he (Morris) has strong objection to.\ that the All-College Senate, acting as a \giant octopus;'' is taking on too many problems at once. The new system will funnel these questions into different, and appropriate, areas for discussion. . Therefore, for those who were wondering, there will be elections for the Senate next month for representative positions which should last at least through next fall. Bryon Nichols, chairman of the drafting committee. In the fall the self-studying drafting committee undertook revise . the existing system which had been under attack during the Bonner ad- The committee presented ihe first ck~ of their plan to the campus for com- In the winter term., the .draft will be ready May 25, and ~t that point discussion will continue before probable im· plementation early next year. Nichols also related that the Board of Trustees has solved one problem for the corn..tnittee, in relation to the 'P:toposed administrative council, in the restructuring of admissions. Union Requests l,nterns Professor Byron Nichols, the Chairman, indicated there was not much oral or opposition to the proposal. Professor Anton also on the committee, with P.rofessor Nichols, indicating that most of unhappiness over the draft expressed by a very 1 'tiny of the faculty.\ He that it was the of ''rhetoric\ in the that . \initially drew most fire.\ He believed that se<;ond .dfaft would be a \simpler version, more easlly presented and digested.\ I The GOnunittee met last week with President -elect . John S. The overt concern of both Ward and Nichols is in regard to the fragmentation .of the faculty. Professor Nichols feels tJtat lhe \re~stitution of the divisions\ would lend itself to better faculty· organization.,. Professor Ward and other faculty members, -on the other hand, feel that the fragmen• tation is a \reality\ which has to be faced, and. even \ac~ como dated, •• rather. than precluding changes in the hope that the problem. will disappear. He sees that the \devisiveness\ existing in .the present gover~ nance system is not healthy. The difficulty with the present system according to Waro is byPAMRYAN The 1979-80 academic year is .likely to see two new faces on campus. Union ha$ submitted t:wopossible internship requests to SUNY.-Albany'.s Graduate program in counseling psychology and student per- $c:>nnel, which r.eqlliies that all of its second year graduate students serve a one-year, full· time internship on a college campus. In their internships, students are .expected to per- form- functions reflecting both their primary and a secondary focus of interest. Of the two requests submitted 'by Union, one has firm requirements, while the other is ME's Compete In Student Speaking Contest by DEBBE DAMRELL This past weekend, the American Society of Mechanical Engineers (ASME) Mid-Atlantic Region III Student Speaking Contest was attended by seven Union College students and Professor William Aubrey of the ME Department. The contest, an annual. event held !his year at Lehigh University m Bethlehem, Penn., brings together mechanical engineering students from such schools as Clarkson, Rochester Institute of Techn-ology, University of Rochester, University of Buffalo, SyracUile, Cornell, Union, RPI, Villanova, Lehigh, University of Penn· sylvania, Penn. State; Prin· ceton, Howard University, Lafayette, and George Washington University in two days of competition. Each schdol sends one or two students to compete, and as much of an audience as they ean get. Students give a fifteen- minute oral presentation on research they have done in some area of mechanical engineering, usuai:Iy sup- plemented with visual aids (slides; charts, etc.) Four all. prOofessional of ASME, evaluate the contestants on the cont. ent of their talk, the usefulness and thoroughness of their research, presentation itself (dontt be nervoU$, ~peak clearly, and slowly)., and how well each contestant handles the question answer period after their (be prepared for tricky questions) ! , 16 students par· in the competition, thirteen schools. COIJIJ)Ietition ·was keen, the were good, and the tension rather high at the Awards on Saturday. But while most of Union College was celebrating the history, traditions and beautiful weather at Fitz Hugh Ludlow Day, we at Lehigh were celebrating in another way. When the prizes were given out, Union College came away with two out of the top folU' winners, and the \Man Mile Award'~ fot bringing the most people the most miles, John Battaglioli, speaking on his senior project wor~. \The Design of a Left-Ventricular Assist Device\ won first place in the competition. Robyn Kobert took fourth place with her talk, \West College Energy Study: 1976-1978\. As winner of the Region III competition, John will now participate in the National Old Guard com· petition, which is being 'held this coming December in New York City. Here · he will compete against winners from each of the other ASME regions of the U ;S. thirteen contestants in total. In order for Robyn and John to speak at Lehigh this weekend, theyfirst had to.speak fu the Union College Speaking Contest. In this event, any senior ME student may choose to present· a fifteen-minute talk on their senior project. Three members (}f the ME faculty judge the presentations and choose the winners. This year Robyn was the winner of the Union competition, a!ld John the runner•up. From l!ere, the next annual event is the Union- RJ?i speaking contest, in which the winners from these two schools participate. Robyn and Briar\. Beveridge of RPI, speaking on geothermal energy, were the two participants in the competition, held this year at RPI. Robyn won first prize in this inteNichool contest. This whole chain of events has resulted in something that all members of the Union College community should be proud of. Tbe ex:cellence of this school, and the support we as students get from the faculty and our fellow students, has been exemplified thiS past weekend at Lehigh. Ifelt just as proud of U.rtion College Saturday af- ternoon, applauding for Robyn and John as I did Saturday evening at the fireworks display on Garris Field. Congratulations, Robyn and John! more flexible. In the area with set expectations, the primary focus of interest is expected to be counseling, with the student working in the Counseling Center under the supervision !)f Tim Dowling. The secondary area of focus would be career counseling and placement; with the student expected to have some experience in resume writing, career workshops, etc. In fact, Mrs. Yungwba Min of the .Placement Office is a gradUate of SUNY's program. The second internship is much more flexible in its requirements. The primary focus is to be on residence halls, with the graduate student ex- pected to work cloSely with the R.A. 's and to- try to encourage more social activity within the donn. The secondary area is more open, with the intern more free to pursue his own area of interest, be it athletics, coun- seling, or whatever. So far, five persons have been interviewed for the counseling- placement position. Of these, two students did their first-year .practicum in the Union coun- seling center, and one of these two is also a Union College graduate. The college is currently in the process of making a decision, but the in- ternship will probably be of- fered to one of these two. Interest in the residence hall position has not been as great, however. Most of the students have been dorm directors or seved in a similar capacity before, and feel that such a position will not broaden their experience. This internship is therefore, not as close to being filled as tt\e other. The SUNY program was originally set up twelve to fif- teen years ago When there was a shortage of trained .people in the area of counseling and student personnel. The highly selective program had been intended to benefit the SUNY system, with the hope that graduate students would gain experience at Sute University campuses and eventually work for them. The program has gradually been ex:panded to affect private schools, however, such as Union. According to Dean Kellett, the SUNY program is excellent and provides a great op· portunity for Unkm to ex· periment, as there is only a one year commitment involved and the cost is relatively minimal. The average stipend paid to the intern is around $3,009, which is much less than it would cost to hire anyone else, and most of the interns have at least as much, jf not more, training tha:n pthers qualified for the position. As Kellett says, \to not take advantage of the availability would be foolish.\ There is the possibility, of course, of getting someone who is not very good and having to spend moretime on supervision than it is worth. However, it is tnore likely that any student in the program has a genuine interest in his or her field, and brings this enthusiasm into the internship. Providing that the students selected for the positions are qualified and genuinely interested, the in- ternship program should prove a valuable experience for bo'lJ the student and the college.

PageS OONOOBDl1!1NSIS, ApriZ 1!6, 1979 Speaking With The Future by DONNA <JRE·ELEY This past weekend a very energentic and enthusiastic President-elect John S. Morris was busy shaking )lands. and spefiking with both faculty and students. Those who had the opportunity to meet with bim described him as impressive and concerned. One student said, ''He seemed to emanate an air of concern.\ Another stated, \He seemed vEry anxious to meet the students and I was quite aware of his concern for the school and the students.\ college with a good faculty and student body, feels he is com• mitted to private independent college, which in his words, \is an important .part of the spectrwn of higher education in America.'' One of Union's assets, ac- cording to Morris is that it is a strong liberal arts college with a long tradition of excellence. There are many elements about the college that he feels extend it beyond tbe call of a liberal arts or an undergraduate college. These elements include the joint degree programs in medicine and law. He stated, Humanitjes and Social Scien- ces, but as lle states, \A person needs involvement in these areas as well as in others in order to have a balanced education.\ It is for this reason that he hQpes t!l find various WaY$ of making offerings in these programs of study mo~;e attractive to students regar- dless of their· reasons for at- tending the college. With respect to all of the departments, he has asked Dean :Sr(lwnlee to request written rei»rts describing each department in order to better aid him in making decisions about any changes. Housing shortages and lllaintance is another priority for President-elect Morris. He i$ genuinely concerned with the vesidential and 'housing arrangementS> pf students ilnd will be taking a closer look at the situatio!l in the near future. Athletics In response to the questions being askecl by the Pbmning and Priorities Committee concerning the role of athletics at Union, Mr. Murris stated that it was the colleg~'s obligation to offer a good range of recreational faci;lities and programs and an opportunity to. engage in athletic activity. He feels the overall role of athletics should be viewed in conte~ ·of \John Morris is on impressive individual~\ Truthfully, Mr. Morris - related very well both to the students and the ad- ministration. One official stated, \John Morris is im- pressive for the complementary strengths of his mind and character. He seems to un- derstand issues with per- sipicacity, and articulates his position to others with crystal clarity. This college should readily appreciate his honesty, · openness, and capacity in the discussions and actions he undertakes in the years and months ahead.\ \John S. Morris combines leadership qualities with a great deal of experience with and a commitment to, liberal arts education. He is an impressive in- dividual with a strong sense of directi<m and adept ability and insight in dealing with campus problems. He is a solid in• dividual who will quickly gain the respEct of the campus, alwnni, and possible donors,~' is yet another view of the President-Elect. Amid the busy schedule .of meetings, (Mr. Morris insisted upon attending as many meeting as was physically capable fora man to attend), he fowd time to speak to ~n­ cordiensis. As He Sees Himself Presently the Provost and Dean of Faculty at Colgate University, he describes himself simply as a \livillg breathing, human being.\ He has come to Union with a very positive attitude and states. \I am going to enjoy serving tbis college in the future and hope we will all be able to join together and leave controversy behind.\ He sees his function as being an active and virorous leader of a good liberal arts college, and intends to \lead the college, rather than impose upon it.\ He is very much in favor of \boosting Union.\ Morris, who claims to having been attracted-to Union .because of its being a strong libepu arts \They are interesting programs which should be kept, as they are good recruiting tools and give some students a way of moving into a particular program of field.\ He con- tinued, by stating that they have their place within the college and in a diversified liberal arts program, but they should not be overemphasized or extended to l: the point that Union only has .!? these type of programs as this :J would \militate against the ~ diversity of the college.\ He ~ extended this view also to the Institute of Administration and Management saying, \It should be operated within the terms of the nature and purpose of the college.\ Priorities In establishing campus priorities, Morris has planned to actively engage in speaking what the college is, but that physical development is an important part of achieving a strong mind and body. Also to be looked at in per· spective of U!lion College as a .,The Faculty should have t&e power of a final veto . .. \ with faculty and students this fall and hopes to meet at length with the president;s cabinet. before the beginning of the term to discuss many of the problems they will be facing. Mr. Morris states that the priorities of identity and future of Union as a small liberal arts college as pointed out in the Concordiensis editorial of April 12, 1979, are of fundamental importance. As a possible solution to the identity problem, he cited obtaining national diversity among the student body and plans to meet with the new Dean of Administration as soon as possible to develop various ideas by which to ac- complish this. He also feels that it would be advantageous for the college to make programs in the Humanities and Social Sciences more attractive to students who may be coming here for totally different reasons. There is a national trend of decreases in enrollment in the areas of whole, according to Morris, is the role of fraternities and sororities. ''Certainly,'' he states \they are so much a part ·Of the history of the college we must see their presence here in relation to that history and hope to achieve a balanced residential college.,. Dean. of Students Mr. Mor.ris also addressed many ofthe other current issues on campus, including the reorganization of the Dean of Students office upon which he commented,. \if the Dean feels it is necessary to make some changes and I 'find the changes appropriate,. then I will support such an acti()n.\ IEF In support of the Internal Education Foundation, Mr. Morris, described it as an in· teresting and unique way of responding to the possibility of course change and innovation.'' Scheduliiig . The presidel1t-ele6t, who has never experienced a trimester schedule, had very little· response to the aspirations 'Of students to change the current schedule so that our summer vacation· might begin sooner and thus allow us a better summer job oUtlook and social interactions with students from Dtqer colleges and universities. He did however, state that a11y curricululll or semester changes would be discus~d by the appropriate facuJ,ty•stuqent organization prior to act1on. withirl the residential program that faculty committees should have some kind of input into their selection. He e:Xpects this to. be discussed in great detail wtth the appropriate com- mittees. · Studen~ Government \Students should have clear input .into the formulaHve stages of legislation and a cleat role ~·~decisions affecting their spectftc area of concern \ stated Morris. \I think . ' \I CJm going to en#oy serving this college in the fulr~re. •• Tuition Polley Mr. Morris agrees with Dean Nelson's opinion that it is necessary to reassess t)le. College's poli~y that states that every student enrolled at Union with full-time status must pay tuitio!l for a complete term, wliether or not he-she is carrying a full load of courses. He thinks our billing procedurt'l sblluld be f!'lir and honestly achieved. He also stressed the importance that students realize that although the manner in which students pay for tbeir education over the twelve terms IJ).ay vary, the college is obligated to offer a total opportunity at all times and to all students. The college also has a financial obligation to track in towards tile future and therefore must see the number of full-time students in those respective terms. Faculty Input Mr. Morris places a great deal of .emphasis upon the role of the faculty, which can be seen in his views on Resident Advisor selection and · student govern .. ment. He feels that since RA's are fundamentaUy responsive however, the facu,lty . should have the power of a final veto at least in curriculum and academic matters:., He went on to state that he feels the present student. government suggestion~ are ''quite reasonable.\ Student Activities Mr. ·Mprris feels that \an active, self detel'IIlined student ~ctivity js very important,\ as 1t offers a good opportunity for students to become engaged in and active with a project they can enjoy doing and be productive simultaneously. Organization~ offer chances for students to become involved in a disciplined and public way, while obtaining definite results. At the same time he does not view work done in the\ library or in any intelle~tual endeavor as being an isolated factor, but rather a preparation for students to better- understand both themselves and the outside world upon leaving the coliege. Mr. Morris also commends the term abroad programs and internships available at Union as positive methods of helping students to relate their live!'; on- campus to the off-campus world. rhe Futm:e Mr. Morris feels that before he takes any definitive steps concerning the college, he needs to discover exactly what Union is. . To do this he is looking closely at the history, temper and mind of the college. He also hopes to .get to know each student and to encourage every student to get to know him. It is assured by all of those who have a:lr~dy met Mr. Morris that upon having the chance to meet him in the futute. people Will inu:nediately sense his confidence and PQSitive nature as well as his genuine interest and en- thusiasm. As a student who had the opportunity to speak with him extensively, \I'm very excited about having President Morris here at Union this fall.\ EP~ bySTl The Edt Committee second meet Term on Thu the onset Professor 8< Sociology reported thai multidiscipl which exists present time are 2 junior program cur: the ''best th scratch it\ tnat it will gr~ of the Chern asked if tt programs '\ similar stit replied that t: A subcommii Schneller is presently tr criteria whi.c: suc}l progran might inclu staffing, he 1 that there situations lil which had t' mediately. Next, Pro brought up academic d had been disc meeting .. He difficult for t with plagiari has not laid 0 on what plag_i. Professor HU: be a good id some guidelir man Precept' indicated thal to institute problems of Freshman Pr than in Fresru Prec~ptorials centrally org1 make a su Preceptors Andrew 1 representativ Forum, repo spoken to I Kellet, .. and dicated des requH~ed cow learn study what constU etc. · · The next il the CommittE from the dep~ Languages ; Professor W1 \didn 1 t think who ·takes courses. 'Tht proposal is to a 10-level cou the lHevel c1 felt that st1 pertains to should get al stantial taste Students will one lO•Ievel credit for it. take two 10-lt must take the level course i: languages in , for the secor tc

OONCORDIENSIS, April 26, 1979 EPC Takes Action by STEVE GRILL The Educational Policy Committee (EPC) held its second meeting o£ the Spring Term on Thursday, April lB. At the onset of the meeting Professor Schneller, from the Soci·ology Department, rewrted that Urban Studies,. a multidisciplinary program which exists at Union, is at the present time unstaffed. There are 2 juniors involved in the program currently, He felt tMt the ''best thing to do was to scratch it\ as nobody thinks toat U will grow. Professor Hull, of the Chemistry department, asked if there were othe~ programs which were fu.' a similar stituation. · Schneller replied that there may .be some: A subcommittee of EPC which Schneller is chairman of is presently trying to develop criteria Which must be met for suc}l programs to exist. Crit~ria might include funding and staffing, be said. He indicated that there were no other situations like Urban Studies which had to be handled im- med~ately. Next, Professor Schneller brought up tbe problem of .tacademic dishonesty, which had been discussed at an earlier meeting. He felt that it was difficult for the faculty to deal with plagiarism \The college has not laid out clear guidelines on wbat plag_iarism is\ he said. Professor Hull felt that it might be a good idea to incorporate some guidelines into the Fresh~ man Preceptorial. Dean Nelson indica,ted that it would be easier to institute a discussion of problems of plagiarism in the Freshman Preceptorials rather than in Freshman Electives and Prec~ptorlC!ls, as they are more centrally organized. Nelson will make a suggestion to the Preceptors to this effect. Andrew Mitchell, EPC representative · to the Student Fort$, reported that . he had spoken to Dean of Students Kellet, .. and that he had in- dicated desire ·to have a requii~ed course for students to learn study skills, footnoting, what constituted plagarisxn, etc. The next item discussed by the Committee was a proposal from the department .of Modern Languages and Literatures. Professor Warde said that he \didn 1 t think much of a major\ who · takes many 10-level courses. 'The intent of the proposal is to not give credit for a 10-level course without taking the lHevel course, he said. He felt that students, and this pertains to non-majors also. should get at least \one sub- stantial taste of\ a language. Students will be allowed to take one lO•Ievel course and get credit for it. If, however, they take two 10-level courses, they must take the corresponding 11- level course in either one of the languages ifi order to get credit for the second 10-level course took. Professor Htlll commented that the advisors would \have. to be shaJ:l)\ in order to avoid 'scheduling problems. Warde said that the language depart· ment would maj{e tbe policy dear to students during in- troductory courses; · Murray Levison, a visitor at the meeting, brought up a possible .problem: If a student got an A In one lO•level course and then got aD in another, he might opt for nottaking another course in Modern Languages and thus the D would not count in the student's CUM. Warde felt thatthis would not pose that serious a problem as it ls rare for a student to go from an A to an. Schneller state(! that the grade for the sec()nd language collecting program discriptions from the ·chairpersons of the various multi-disciplinary programs. Schn(lller mentioned the Honer's program; it is expected that the subcoiilrtl.ittee will make a recommendation as to its futtn\e within a wee}{. Andrew Mitchell, Chairman of EPC's subcommittee on Academic Advising, reported that Dean Nelson had sent a survey to department chair- persons which should be ~ received before the next EPC '8 meeting. When they are ~ received, the subcommittee > would be in a better position to ~ deal with the advising problem, ~ he said, ~ · The next meeting of EPC is on If ThQI·sday, April 26. Dean Nelson, member of EPC. cotttse would not be recorded on · a student·stranscriptuntilthe .·C ... 0 : .mnn· .· .. · ·.· - .. ·•t.t .. e.e A· ··p. ·p.· .·· li·ca. t· 10 •. · n· ·s • •• appropr~ate ll•level course had been taken. This would eliminate any . ,bureaucratic Continued from page 1 Standing of Students Committee problems, he said. The proposal programs in the curriculum. Reviews the records of those was passed by EPC, and will be rights guaranteed to the college Forumulates plans with respect students earning less than a sent to the All College Senate for community by the college. to the number of faculty and satisfactory term average. consideration. Makes rEcommendations to their distribution in the various Deals with student petitions. for The .proposal is as follows: correct or discipline the departments and programs. readmission and exceptions in \All students who begin the violations. One member is graduation requirements. Re- study of a new foreign language appointed chairman. Financial Aid Committee examines the criteria for at Union are encouraged to Continuing Education Com- Formulates policies and plans Dean's List standing. pursue it for at least two terms. mittee with respect to £inancial aid. Supportive Services Committee Students who take 10-level Works with the Dean of May bring particular cases to Responsible for policies aml courses In more than one Graduate Studies and Con- the attention of the Financial procedures with respect to the language will receive neither tinning Education to review Aid Director and ask for ex- A cad em i c 0 p port unity credit nor grade for additional policies with respect to the planation or clarification. Progl'am. 10-level courses 1Ultil the 11- continuing education program. level course has been completed Graduate Studies Committee in at least one of these Works with the Dean of languages. Graduate Studies and Con- The next item was a progres~ tinuing Education to review report from Professor policies and courses on the Schneller, chairman of the graduate level. subcommittee on Honors and Educational Policy Committee other Multi di scipl in ary Formulates policies and plans programs, a subcommittee of ·with respect to matters of EPC which has recently been educational policy and set up. The subcommittee met curriculum. Encourages and last Week. Dean Brownlee is passes Up()n potential new Election Dates • •• Continued from page I credit. The resolutions were as tions through any student ac- follows: tivity approved with a BE IT RESOLVED THAT: recommendation for funding by any future ,program or the Committee on Committees, specific production ·in which and further, students participate, but in which, BE IT ALSO RESOLVED 1) the student partiCipants THAT: or their duly constituted representatives d() not have, or fail to demonstrate that they would have either positive or negative decision-making authority over a) general program or specific production selection, or b) general program of specific production design, or c) all general program or specific production related expenditures, or in which, 2) ·a significant number of participants would b~ receiving academic credit for their · participation. · will not be considered student activities Wider the auspiCes and jurisdiction of the Student ForUll1, and further, the Student Tax Committee shall not allocate and Student Tax money to such programs or produc~ the Student Tax Committee may transfer Student Tax money directly to any responsible party or parties associated with the College, yet outside the jurisdiction and auspices of the Student Forum, in recognition of some ex- tracurricular value to the matriculating urtdergraduate students of the >College paying a student activities fee, so long as the appropriation receives a two-thirds approval of the Student Forum. Lisa Katz asked who would determine what is a significant amount of academic credit. President Richards replied that the appropriate body would be the TalL C()nunittee. Housing Committee Formulates policies and plans with respect to student residencies. Should work with the RA's and may consider individual cases. Lectures, Concerts, and Fil s Committee Plans lectures, concerts, and films in conjunction with the Public Relations Committee and Office. Library Committee Works with the Head Librarian in the formulation of policies and programs for the library. Planning and Priorities Committee Works to establish overall plans for the College in ac- cordance with priorities which it should devise. Has the responsibility for policies in budgetary areas and for for- mulating a budget to be sub- mitted to the Trustees. Works closely with the Provost in developing plans which are as detailed as possible for the future of Union. One member appointed to the liaison position on the Student Forum. Presidential Advisory Board Student Committees College Ccntrr Committee Responsible for ma1ters concerning the organization and improvement of Carneigie Hall. Om· member is appointed chairman. Committee on Committees Reviews and makes recommendations on con- stitutions of new student organizations. Appoints students to all committees on which students have appointive membership in a manner consistent with their Guidelines and the Student Forum Bylaw~. Reviews the performance of students on conunittee. Concerts Committet- Responsible ~olely for planning concerts for the college. One member IS ap- pointed to the liaison position on the Social Committee. Elections Committee Organizes and tuns elections, pools, and referenda in a manner consistent with thf'ir Guidelines. One member is appointed chairman. Film Committee Plans and shows films on a regular basis for the en- tertainment of the Union Community. Independent Student Coalition C.:tmmittee Members serve as Union's representatives to the Coalition, wqich functions as a lobbying organization dealing solely with higher education issues for New York State independent college, and university students. Social Committee Cornell law School Junior Trustee, Mark Bur- nett, motioned to delete the second resolution as it would be a bad precedent to set. After some confusion, the proposals were voted down, but it is ex~ ))ectedthat they will be brought up for further discussion at the next meeting. Advises the President on such matters which he may bring before it as well as on matters brought to it from other sour- ces. Keeps the President in- formed of campus matters brought to it from other sour- ces. Kt}eps the President in- formed of campus matters brought to il from other sour- ces. Keeps the President in- formed of campus sentiment with regard to College policies. It will automatically be con- sulted on appointments to major administrative posts of the college. Oversees the college and departmental honors programs. One member is appointed to the liaison position on the Student Forwn . Responsible for planning social events for the students, such as the Nightclub Winter Carnival, dances, etc. One member is appointed to the liaison position on the Concert Committee. Undergraduate Prelaw . Program June 11 to July 24, 1979 A demanding six-weekprogram for college students whowant .to learn what law school is like. For further information write to Prof. E. F. Roberts, Cornell Law School 314BMyronTaylorHall, Ithaca, NY 14853 . Typing 75~ per page. Professional, fast and accurate. ·Call 370-4759 Public Relations Committee Formulates plans and policies with respect to carrying Union'S message beyond its own campus. Security and Safety Committee Develops policies and plans with respect to security and safety procedures and makes recommendations with respect to resource allocations. Speakers Forum Committee Responsible for obtaining guest speakers, and organizing the event with respect to ad- vertising, ticket sales, recep- tions, etc. Traffic and Pet Court Regulates and controls students' licensed pets. Hears cases of college regulations on pets and acts as a board to hear appeals of traffic tickets. The Committee on Com~ mittees will apoint student to this list of committees for the committee year starting the end of Spring Term, 1978.

Page 8 OQNOORDJENSIS, April 26~ 1979 Skydiving: The Ultimate Experie,nce Book Review: byDANBOOTH It was cold at 3;000 feet as I crouched on the floor of the small airplane, a parachute upon my back, awaiting, of all things, my chance to jump through the open door to my left. Man has always had a fascination with things of the air. Witness Icarus, l)a Vinci, Am-elia Earhart's disap- pearance in a plane, the Hin- den:burg. To fly like a bird, and to experience his total freedom in flightis in a way a freeing of man's oWil spirit, letting it soar far, far above the everyday existence below. But such were not my thoughts in that tiny airplane. My only thoo.ght was of self preservation. Naturally &l precautions are taken. Doring a sky-diver's first five jumps the parachute is opened by a \static line\ which means that sec~mds after exitingthe plane there is a large round chute al>ove ont 's head hopefully. But l knew those few mere secondS would last for eternity as I 'prepared to exit the plane. I was third out of the plane; the first two jumpers had disap- peared ~ore my very eyes, their own eyes wide. ·As in a dream I beard the instructions: \Legs out/' and my eyes watched my legs fall from tJ:u,l open door as if they were detached. The words \ready \go sounded in my ear and I fell into tbe void. Instantly I forgot everything I had learned. Then my eyes .focussed inth.e near distance on a ~mall red cloud with a purple sickle-shaped underside. Were I a seer, I might have interpreted this as ~ bad omen, but it was not. The Heretical Imperative Seeing something. in the midst of nothing brought ,back my memory; and I began to react. The appearance of the cloud brought me back to earth, so to A Book By Peter L. Berger After ten years of writing in other areas, Peter L. Berger returns to the central in- tellectual passion of his life- religion. In this brilliant new book, Berger offers an eloquent and original approach to con- structive religious thought in the modern situation. The title, THE HERETICAL IMPERATIVE, contains the central thesis: the Greek word form which \heresy\ is derived means choice- selectivity in the face of religious tradition. Berger luminously analyzes religious thought in the modem world to show that where fate once dominated faith, the \heretical imperative'' -- choice-now does. This absolute need for choice is the cause of the major crisis in modern religion, and Berger analyzes this crisis and proposes the following three options f()r dealirlg with it: To go on believing as if notbing has changed. This, the deductive option. is the hallmark of all orthodoxies, but, Berger maintains, is based on r-····· ....................... ······-········ ....... ······-· ......... - ..... ·-·-·-··---······.. . - .! I To Molly I l I trembled in the cpld glare of the sun l i Thinking I was alone. j l She came to me l illusion. To reduce religion to a secular experience (identifying religion with any .p~rticular political agenda). This is the reductive option, which 'Berger feels negates religion and religious experience. To turn from external authority to indivfdual ex- perience. The inductive option is the only one which Berger believes to be viable, given the need for choice that is universal to~y. . Berger's concise and lucid style makes this singular work essential to our understanding of contemporary religious trends. As such, THE HERETICAL IMPERATIVE ~ will be discussed and argued .. about;. but when all is said and ~ done, il will stand as a land- ~ mark book on religion for the ~ eighties. If speak. All of this, which has taken a .paragraph-to WJ,'ite, t;ook place within approximately four seconds. Once my chute opened, I settlecl back to enjoy the scenery spreading below me. In front of me were rcWng hills that looked like ··beautiful breasts, the unmelted snow the nipples. To my right and left were houses and lakes. Before I knew it,. l was Ian .. ding in elation. Unf()rtunately, due to bad lant;iing f()rm, there were a few ankle injuries, but nothing more serious. Fitz Hugh Ludlow Day became a special day ·for the jumpers, for they were able to jump in the morning and return to tell about it in the aft-ernoon, swaggering about as if there were wings on their shoulders. And although the Tax Com- mittee has refused to pr()vide funds for the Union College Sky• Diving Cl'ub until next fall term, credit has been arranged with tl;le Albany Sky~Diving Centerto provide $4, off each student's subsequent jwnps. i Out of the sun ~ l Taking away the glare ~ i And showing me its yellow mouth i Peter L. Berger is Professor of Sociology at · Rutger'.s University and one of the most respected scholars in the areas of sociology and religion. He is the author of PYRAMIDS OF SACRIFICE and A RUMOR OF ANGELS, among many other books. Mr. Berger also serves on the board of the Foreign Policy Institute and travels widely for the State Depart- -uent. Nott Miller's Mad:ness -. . .. . . .! Together we hold the sun l i Feeling the fire i i That does not scorch l : Basking in its warmth l And seeing clearly l With its love--light. ~:·:. Hermie ' Please contribute all submissions for Fine-Lines to Jan De Deka. l Fine Lines Editor, Box 1388. Submissions may be anonymous. i ······················ ······················\'·········· ..................................................................... . Publication date: May 11, 1979 Price: $9.95 Pages: 240 Notes WRUC Surveyed What type of music do you like? Union's radio station WRUC wants to know. WRUC is on the move. In anticipation of increasing power to 100 watts in the fall of '79, (as opposed to the current 10 watt outage), WRUC is working now to improve every facet of its operations. Realizing the heart of any radio station is its audience, WRUC is now reaching out to you to get your opinions. Within the next week, you will find a WRUC questionnaire In your mail box:. The questionnaire is short, a~king your opin~~~s on the tYPes of music you listen to, now often and when you listen to the radio, and so on. Your answers are important; we are ycur radio station, and it is im- portant that we pay attention to you. What you say will affect what we play. WRUC;s top 10 Albwns ~fr~m 11 April•23 April) 1. Joe Jackson, Look Sllarp; 2. Rickie Lee Jones 1 Ric1de · Lee Jenes; 3. Elvis Costello, Armed Forees; 4. Graham Parker, Squeezing Out Sparks; 5. Allman Brothers, Enlightt)ned Rogues; 6. Bad Company, Desolations Angels; 7. Boomtown Rats, A Tonic for the Troops; 8. The Roches, The Roches; 9. Ian Hunter, You're Never Alone. With a Schizophrenic; 10. Hot Tuna, F~ Vinyl. Our feature album this Thursday night is Flash and the Pan, a new group from Australia, and Friday night it's the latest from the Charlie Daniels Band--Million Mile Reftections~ · ~'I've been dead all last week so I haven't had to be at the Nott.\ This is. a direct quote fromone Mary Matti.more, soon graduate of Union College with a B.A. in English. You may ask, \is this what coUeges are producing? English majors who spout such nonsense? Nay, fair reader. Mary was perfectly correct. She along with ten others will appear in the production of Ten Little Indians, Agatha Christie's murder mystery, which opens in the Nott Memorial, May 9. Ms. Mattimore didn't need to come to the Nott, because the first act was not being rehearsed and Mary's character, for mysterious reasons, does not appear in the second and third acts. The cast includes Mary, -known to audiences for her performances in A Man for All Seasons and Feiffer's People; Patti Chaifetz, who choreographed The llobber Bridegroom; Adam Frey, who has acted in Peer Gynt and Tom P~ine, who has made numerous Cabaret appearances; BiU Hancocky an actor in Twin Menaecbmi, A Man for AU Seasons, f.md Tom Paine; Stev-en Kilgore, remembered from Toin Paine; Barry Symonds, Who played major roles in When You Ce~m.in' Ba~k., Red Ryder? and The Robber Bridegre~om; Art Zewert, who was the assistant director f<lt The Robber Bridegroom; and four exciting and talented newcomers, Chris Eschenberg; Dan Lacof£, John T. Morgan, and Margaret Perkins. The play is being directed by Sharon Rubin, a junior, whose numerous theatrical ap- pearances include Twelfth Night, And Miss Reardon Drinks A Little, Feiffer's People, The Robber Bridegroom, and she attended · the National Theatre Institute this past fall. . Stage managing the production is Tom Farrell, who has appeared in Death of a Salesman, A . .Man For AU Seasons, Feiffer's People, Tom Paine, and The Rflbber Bridegroom. Tickets for this exciting theatre exp-erience go on sale May 4 in the Nott's bo;t office. DON'T MISS IT! by MITCHEl The Union C Club has arran: Hughes, a professional Q.anc from this area, t(l master classes il1 the next few Hughes, who is old, hal:! a ra1 bistory,. having s1 seriouslY at the ·· age of .21. llis b eludes many d dance, as well as He has worked artists as Normru R<Jyal Ballet of Norbert Vesak, ballet maste Metropolitan Op New York City. Having gradua- year technologic~ degree in technology, Mr. for a wbil.e ir hospitals. Althou the work, he dE wanted to try so1 different, and he Brockport State Rochester,. wher1 B.S. in dance, w. biology. He expel difficulty in himself to that pr· because '\the art~ more freedom cc specificity of. sci< After graduatit took one dance University of S~ and then joined a ballet company Ohio. While wor technician durin danced with thE night. Although h experience in bal that, having re \Limon and 1 training at Broc the job because Mr. Hug})es ha4 teacher of his th years of trainin! prof-essional _ disagrees, mai some people rna: Concer.t Commi Night 9-1 p.m. \S wee \Sweet Cider' bluegrass band 1 district area ' Peared through State at clubs, bluegrass festiv \Sweet Cid4 traditional blue! material arran1 contemporary bluegrass. Th styles and SOUIJ 'homegrown' st~ or 'newgta Producing a 'u.ni1 traditional and The indep1 complished m1 together well ov

OONOORDIENB1S, April !6, 1979 .Page 9 Dance On Th.e Move by MITCHELL WOLIN The Union College li>ance CLub h~s arranged for Kim Hughes, a weU-kn9wn profess~Qhal dancer, originally from thiS area, to teach .several master classes ·~ dance duri,ng. the next fe:w weeks. Mr. Hughes, who is now ~7 years old, haS a rather tanusual history,. having started dancing serio.usly at the relatively late age of 21. His background in- cludes many disciplines of dance, as well as choreography. He has worked under such artists as Norman.Motris of the R<lyal Sallet of London, and Norbert Vesak, the current ballet master .at the Metropolitan Opera HoUSe In New York City. Having graduated from a two year technological schoohvith a degree in laboratory technology, Mr. Hug~es worked for a while in ·clinics and hospitals. Although he enjoyed the work., he decided that he wanted tO' try something really different, and he enrolled in the Brockport State College near Rochester,. where he earned a B.S. in dance, with a minor in biology. He experienced a lot of difficulty in acclimating himself to that program, mainly because \the artshavesomuch more freedom compared to the specificity of. science. After graduating,. Mr. Hughes took one dance course at the University of Sf,llt Lake City, and then joined a newly formed ballet company in Cleveland, Ohio. While working as a lab technician during the. day; he danced with the eompany at night. Althougbhehadhad little. experience in ballet previous to that, having received mostly \Limon and Cunningham'' training at Brockport, he took the job because \I needed it.\ Mr. Hug}les had been told by a teacher of his that it Ulkes ten years of training to become a professional dancer. He disagrees, maintaining that some people take .a whole lifetinie before they can add the spiritofdance to their technical abilities. His own rise in the world of dance bas been the result .of much. hard work and excellent ·training under qualified instructors in which he put tl.\ust CC!!llbined with his own natural ability. He did, however; .note tbat at that time the cQm:petition was easier among men than among women. The Cleveland comapny folded due to financial problems, after which. Mr. Hugh~ went to N.Y.C. to audition. lie received an offer from the Contempor~ry. Dance Company of Winnipeg, Cf,lllada, which is a repertory dance company; After one year as an .apprentice, he became a full• member of the ·group, and. spent the next three years with them. Being a repertory .group, they brought in choreographers from everywhere, e:!!:posing the company to many different styles of modern dance. The group, which is composed of about ten dancers, also did a lot of touring around the U.S. and Canada, which was enjoyable. Having learned a great deal from the Winnipeg Company, . Mr~ Hughes recently decided that it was time for him to leave since he felt that he \couldn't progress any further.\ Since learning in dance is a con- tinuing process, he has decided to move on to New York to further his dancing education. He currently plans on taking classes at various schools as well as doing .freelance dancing. Mr. Hughes enjQys ~ll.ateas of the production, including costume, lighting, etc., but he has an especially strong in- terest in choreography. He has taken several courses in college in this area, and was involved in a choreography workshop in the Winnipeg group whete he choreographed three works. He just recently did a 15 minute df,lllce <!3lled ''Nautilus\ usimz Concert Committee presents Sweet Cider in the Pub on Friday Night 9-1 p.m. · \s c· ·d · \ r A weet t· er ··o ppear \Sweet Cider\ is a .five piece bluegrass band from the capital district area who have ap- peared thrQughout New York State at Clubs, ~olleges, and bluegrass festivals. \Sweet Cider'' performs traditional bluegrass as well as material ar.ranged in_ a more contemporary style of bluegrass. This mixture of styles and SOtulds results in a 'homegrown' style of .bluegrass, or 'newgrass', music; rrod~~ing a unique blend of the · rad1t1onal and modem. The independently ac- complished musicians joined together well over a year ago to form the group. \Sweet Cider\ which originally consisted of Tom Yanis playing banjo, Walt Yanis on bass, Joe· Kilcullen playing lead guitar, and Bill Kilcullen on rhythm guitar. Approximately nine months later, Glenn Naydan, and his mandolin, joined \Sweet Cider-.'' Recently, much of the musician's efforts has been involved in the composing, and performing, of . original material. The majority of these original songs are written and sung by Bill Kilcullen, with instrumental compositions by Glenn Naydan and Tom Yanis. three women, based on a, work by Dvorzak Claiming that each choreographer must develop his own way of working, he ex- plained that his .style is very inove:ment oriented, in tlult the idea must come across in the action. He does not get into \message .pieces,'' ,but instead, .prefers to evoke a mood or a design. The purpose of the dance is to bring across something interestmg to the viewer. It does not have to be .pretty, but the audience should be moved by the performance. ''Nautjlus\ is about the sea. He uses the thtee women because he feels that water is a feminine type of thing. The movement in the piece is . rounded and swingy, .like the water. The three women, who all have a similar movement quality. wear long dresses, and'they use their clothing in circular, swoopy motions, evoking a sense of the surging and recession of the waters of the sea. In the time he will be at Union, Mr. Hughes will be teaching a piece he has choreographed . and performed himself, called \Harbor\ by Betmilder. It is a solo piece about someone leaving home, and is fairlY easy technically. When performed properly, the dance conveys a sense of yearning, apprehension, and yet hopefulness. Everyone will learn tne dance, which actually runs only about three minutes, so as to experience it as a complete unit, and then they will be able to work on their own quality of movement within the framework of the piece. Mr. Hughes is very happy with the recent developments in the world of dance. Within the past few years he has been exposed to jazz dancing which he enjoys very much~ In his opinion, modern dance com- bines all forms of dance, in- cluding ballet. He thinks disco dancing is \great!\ \For the first time in· quite a while, a really technical type of dancing has interest to the public.\ The · recent increases in the public's awareness in this art form and dancing in general has manifested itself in social ac- tivities and fashion. He feels that \A Chorus Line\ and \Dancin '\ two shows currently on Broadway, have done a lot to spur popillar interest in dance. \Dance is. catcing on 010re and more. Its g{)ing by leaps and bounds!\ Mr. Hughes considers dance to be a very self-indulgent activity, though not more or less Kim Hughes. to teach Union Coliege Dance Club. than any other art form. It is a challenge in tbat there is nothing external. \Everything must be conveyed with your body.\ Although he has not considered professional acting as a career, he enjoys dancing in performances such as musicals. \There are dancers who just enjoy taking classes, or love to teach, but I love to perform. I get a feeling from performing that I get-nowhere else. It is a personal ex- perience.\ He enjoys dancing with a group on stage. \You feel a special rapport and trust,. a security, with .a group that you have worked with.\ As a word to those con- sidering dance as a career, he Term in Greece said that since he started so late, (though men do tend to start later than women), he had to work very hard at his techniq:ue. This stretch was especially \terrible\. You need 11ersist€nce and discipline. Exposure to as many different forms of dance as possible is extremely important. \Every dancer should take ballet classes.\ If you are really in- terested, go where the dance is. This helps to \expand your \i{)cabulary as a dancer.\ It takes a lot of good training to become a professional dam·er. \You must trust your teachers. or else go to someone else.'' Thr ideal is to combine the per- fection of technique with the spirit of the dance. • • • Continued from page 3 the very things they tried to prevent. · As for Greece itself, the islands are magnificent, the people intriguing and our ex- periences outside the classroom (not undertheauspioesof Union and CYA) unparalleled. We would heartily suggest that anyone interested in going to Greece do so, it is a lovely country, worth the time and interest of anyone, but not with the Union College program, UNLESS Union and CY A study and revamp the progran1 to more align itself with the Union College credo of total education, not just instruction. and 'the Women's Network bring you Verna Lowe & Pat Condello and Judy Kottke and Jazz Band Apri 126, Shows at 9 & 11 Tickets on sale at 8 p.m. in Carnegie [..,....._ BAttOll \An outrageously funny picture.\ -COMMONWEAL April 27-29 Tues., May 1 Fri. 10 p.m •• Sat. & Sun. 7, 9, 11 p.m. 7. 9, 11 p.m. $1.25 55016 $.75 55016

Page 10 OONOORDIFJN8l8, April 26, 1979 ---Around Campus~- . \' <II \' U) .c ... u Oi ro . .!: v ~ . 0 0 -a Victor Gittleman and Barry Weinbaum of ZBT demonstrate CPR. C P . R c 1· the checkout counter gasps, As a result., the Brothers of . . 0 5 5 clutches his chest and falls to Zeta Beta Tau, who are CPR the fl~or. He begins to turn blue Instructors, will be conducting Cardiopulmonary Resusci- tation, or CPR for short is a . ' stmp~e, yet life saving techmque. It can be learned in just nine hours. The knowledge and training acquired during the cours.e could be in- strumental in saving someone's life. Suppose you're shopping at a grocery store when the man at and his breathing ceases. What two classes for all interested would you do? . members of the Union com- If ~ou've taken the Red Cross munity. The first class will Cardiopulmonary Resuscitation begin on Tuesday, May 8 and course you may save his life~ run from three consecutive Mos~ cardiac fa~alities occur T~esdays, concluding on May outs1de the hosp1tal. Mariy of 22. The second class will start the more thao a million deaths on Thursday, May 10 and each year could have been proceed for three consecutive prevented if basic life support Thursdays, finishing on May 24. emergency first aid had been Both classes will run from 7-10 given in the first few seconds. p.m. and will be conducted at , ----=-Area Calendar·-----\'\'! ART April30. A senior Art Exhibit: exhibit will continue through May 3 at the New Gallery, SFA,C, Hours: Monday-Friday 9 am to 5 pm. Russell Sage College. BOOKS April 28. One of the most important book fairs in Upstate New York will be held Saturday from 10 am to 5 pm at the Albany Institute of History and Art, 125 Washington Avenue, Albany NY 12210. This annual event offers the public an op- portunity to entertain them~ selves by. browsing through unusual and-or out-of-print books, maps, prints, and hopefully to discover sought after items to purchase for their personal collections. CONFERENCE April 28. The annual student careeJ conferen<'<!,spons()red by the New York chapter of the American Marketing Association, will be held at the Loeb Student Center, 566 La Guardia Place, on the Washington Square Campus of New York University-9 am to 4 '\. pm. Are~s to b:e covered by e_xperts m their respective ftelds are:. advertising, sales, marketing, product management, international ~arket~g, r_eswne writing and mt erv 1ew1ng t.echniq ue, graduate school selection. FASH·ION May 2. Fashions by the ren?wned. designer, . Lilly Pulitzer will be featured in a ''Saratoga Fashion Promenade\ at 2 pm. The fashion show will be held in the 'Egg' at Rockefeller Empire State Plaza, Albany. Admission will be charged. All proceeds to bene!it the Saratoga Per- formmg Arts Center. Call 584- 9330 for further information. FILM May 2-30. The Community Arts Project and the Saratoga Performance Group present \Five films of D.W. Griffith\ running Wednesdays t~oughout the month of May. Films to be featured will be Birth of a Nation, Intolerance, Hearts of the World, Way down East, Orphans of the Storm. John Houseman Theatre. Saratoga Spa Park-7:30 pm. LECTURES May 2. The American Medical Student Association of Albany · · Medical College will sponser a program entitled \Advice on · Getting into Medical School\ · for the benefit of premedical colleagues. It will take place at 7:30 pm, Albany Medical College. MUSIC April 28. Berg and Prince a pantomine duo from Denv~r Colorado, will present a speciai one~night performance on Saturday at 8:00pm at the EBA Chapter House Theatre, 337 Hudson Avenue, in Albany. Tickets on sale at the Colonie Center Community Box Office. For more information, call 465- 9916. April 29. The University Chamber Singers will present a concert in the Art Gallery of the State UniversitY at Albany, this Sunday afternoon, at 2 o'clock. The ensemble is open to members of the University Family and to the local com- munity. April 29. The Empire State Youth Theatre Institute will Contillued on page l~) the· ZBT House. · The cost oftbe course is $4.00: Two dollars of which purchases the ·textbooks used, and the remaining half is a ·· main\ tenance fee for the manequins used in perfecting the technique. The instructors volunteer both their time and expertise. · Students, faculty members administrators and' staff members who are interested in. taking either course should reserV:e a place no later than Thursday, May .3. E.eservations may be made and any questions . · answered by calling the ZBT Chapter House at 377-7831 and asking for any Brother who is a CPR Instructor. · Ca.mp Union May 26th has been put aside as the day for ''Camp Union '79.\ This special event, taking place . _on the Saturday of Memonal Day Weekend, will be a repeat and expanded per- formance of last year's very successful Camp Union-an all day barbecue. Food and drink will be served throughout the day and into early ·the next morning. . The Social Committee would hke to supplement the festivities with entertainment by the students. We are looking for a variety of acts (Music Comedy, Magic, etc ... ) ' If you are interested in per- forming for \Camp Union '79\ an~ contributing to a very enjoyable day, contact Lisa Heitner (370..fl627) or Chuck Katz (370..fl977). . . Par-ent's ·wee·kend The Union Ot1ting Club is sponsoring ''tour de Uni()D\ a bicycle race to be held on the Union . College campus dUring Parent's Weekend. This is your chance to show your .. parents how good you reallY .are}so sign upt The event \Viii be held at 2: 00 p.m. on .Saturday, May 5th, starting from the front of Carnegie Hall. A prize dinner for two will be ·.awarded to the winner. There is still plenty of roo_m to enter the bicycle !'ace so mterestedparties should see Mrs. Marra in Student Activities for further details on th~ course and to .sign up. Just a few more notes from the Parent's Weekend' Corn· mittee- We are in need of volunteers t() help decorate Achilles Rink, direct traffic and work at the bar-b-que. Please attend the meeting on Tuesday, May 1, and 1:00 in Student Activities or see Mrs. Marra· Although tickets for Cabaret and Coffeehouse have been sold _ out a few tickets are available for Nightclub and Montebanks. They may be purchased from Mrs. Marra; Department Chairmen are asked to contact Joe Bedard at 370-6474 or Nina DiFrancesco ·at 370-6'600 for details aboutfaculty recepti()ns. Careers in Health Plannin.g & Policy What: Informal Ta.lk . Who: Prof. Eugene Schneller ·Where: Bailey Hall, Room 310 When: April 26, Thursday 3:30 p.m. The purpose of the program is to expose stude~ts to the variety of opportunities in health plannmg and health systems administration and to provide a guide to fede.ral and state health systems .agencies: The following topics will be covered: 1. Health plannrng and-or policy 4. Bio statistics 2. Health Systems management 5. Epidemiology 3. Medical sociology N~tural sci.ence majors and social science maJors are partic:ularly urged to attend. . .. ~or f~r!l!er information, contact Yungwha Mm at PCR. Refreshments wi II be served. Dutch Hollow Pub friday & Saturday· May 1 6:00 p.m. SSO 16 Open meeting for discussion on Residence Life Guidelines included in this year's housing contract May3 6:00 - 9:00 p.m. Special Served Parents' Weekend Menu Pick up Lottery Cards Free Carafe of Wine or Pitcher of Beer with meal Free carnation for all Mothers at both places, both nights ___ ..,- ..... ~,. 1':.,...'1:'\ ....... - (82) Sophomores: Fox Lounge (81) Jun!ors: Davidson Lounge (80) Senters: West College Library MUST COME IN PERSON AND PRESENT J.D. If it is absolutely impossible to pick up your lottery card, do so the next day at the Housing Office. Coming May 7--lnformatiohal meeting on Co- ops. Watch for the time and l.ocation. Prof. James Ct at 8:30p.m. Th The lecture is f1 Cahil Lect1 James Cahill authority on C and art,. will gi~ Baker Lectur( Civi&ation her Apri126. . The lecture, in the People China,\ begins Room . 016, S• building. Admis the public is in Since 1965, ( professor of the the University Berkeley and c art at. the l Museum. His public~ Chinese Paintt exhibjtions cat clition to numei Chinese and Ja which have aiJ c Whe and] grad1 in tag with In a gorg• Here comj simpi thing time.

OONCOR-DIENBIS, ApriZ 26, 1979 Page 11 Around Campus----- Prof .. James Chaill, who will give the Walter C. Baker lecture t\ere at 8:30p.m. Thutsd~y, April 26, Room 016, Social Science Building, The lecture is free and ()pen to the public. Cahill Lecture James CahUl, a recogni$ed authority on Chinese painting and art,. will give the Walter C. Baker Lecture in Art and Civilb;ation here on Thursday, Apri126. The lecture, titles \Painting in the People's Republic {)f China,\ begins at 8:30 p.m. in Room · 016, Social Sciences building. Admission is free, and the public is invited. Since 1965, Chaill has been professor of the history of art at the University of California at Berkeley and curator of Asian art at the University Art Museum. His publications include Chinese Painting and several exhibitions catalogues, in ad· dition to numerous arti<;les on Chinese and Japanese painting which have appeared in both .scholarly journals and popular publications. He is now engaged in writing a five-volume series Qn later Chinese painting; the first volume, Hills Beyond a River: Chinese Painting of the YnanDyoasty, was published in Oco.tber, 19'76; the second Parting At the Share: Chmese Paintmg of the Early and Middle Ming Dynasty, . was published ·in February, 1978. A California native, Cahill received his B.A. in oriental languages from the University of California at Be~keley, and his M.A. and Ph.D in fine arts from the University of Michigan, Ann Arbor. He studies at Kyoto University in 1954~55 on a Fulbright Scholarship, after holding a musewn training fellowship at the Metropolitan Museum in New York, and then worked with the late Dr. Osvald Siren. in Stockholm on his monumental seven-volume Chinese Paining. On his return to the U.S. in 1956., Cahill joined the st!lff of the Freer Gallery of Art, Washington, D.C., where he Bome to Borne/! 4Ria8ummer Where else can you polish your writing skills and learn to use a computer or be in an under· graduate prelaw program and take a course In Intaglio printin9? Where else can you interact with so diverse a group of faculty and students IR a uniqdely attractive setting of hills, lakes, gorges, and waterfalls? Here at Comell, you can fulfill requirements, complete courses In order to accelerate, or simply take the time to study those appealing things for which you've never before had the tlme. Request an Announcement and see for yourself all the reasons why Cornell Is where you should be. this summer. Cornell University Summer Session, 111 Day Hall, Ithaca, New York 14853. REMO'S UNISEX SALON N.§.NA£1ZB• ._.,. IIDI*i,.,. FOR MEN A: WOMEN • PERMANENT WAVING • PRIVATE BOOniS 374-7035 140 CLINTON ST .• .JUST OFF STATE ST.) SCHENECTADY', N.Y. served tintn 1965 as curator of Chinese Art. This year he is Charles Eliot Norton Pmfessor of Poetry at Harvard University~ where he is delivering a series of lectures on 17th century Chinese pain- ting. T.be Wi;tlter C. Baker Lecture was established in 1975 by a gift of Mrs. Lois W. Baker, of New York, in memory of her husband. Walter Baker, who died in 1971, was a 1915 graduate of Union and a member of the college's board of trustees fo:r nearly ~0 yeats, and chairman of the board for 22 years. The lecture series is designed to bring distinguished scholars in arts and letters to Union to further an ·widerstanding of the the role of the creative arts in the development of civilization. Explorer p,ost Explorer Post 909 is a radio broadcasting post under the supervision of WRUC and Dr. JohnSowa. , The post will be putting on an exhibition at Ex:po '79 along with other Scouting organiz!ltions at the Schenec- tady County Airport on April 28th from 10 a.m. in the morning until 8: 3() p.m. at night. Members of the post will be playing various types of music throughout the day. We will be taking special requests also. The equipment being used will be a portable record· hop player with two turntables, volume, controls, and a microphone just purchased by the station. We hOpe to see you, the public, at Expo '79. Debate Stewart Udall, former Secretary of the Interior, and William Rusher, publisher of the National Review, will debate the issue of nuclear power at 9 p.m. Friday, April27 at Memorial Chapel. The debate is sponsored by Union College Speakers' Forum and Chemistry Professor William Martin will moderate. Tickets are $1.50 to general public and ..75 with a Union I.D. As Secretary of the Interior for eight years under Presidents Kennedy .and Johnson, Udall was. one of the prime IQovers of the en- vironmental movement in the 1960s and had a primary responsibility for U$. energy policies. Since leaving office in 1969, Udall has continued to work for environmental protection and improvement as a Wa!ihington·based lawyer in private practice, lecturer, and syndicated columnist. In ad, dition., he heads an en· vironmental planning firm called Overv:iew. RtJsher has been publisher of William F. Buckl~y's National Review, America's leading journal of conservative opinion, since 1957, A familiar television personality, he served for four years as the regular con\ servative spokesman on \The Advocates,\ the Emmy- winning program on the Public Broadcasting System. More recently he has appeare~ on \Good Morning America\ and as a participant in its \Face Off'' feature. What The Hell's Going On? Thursday April 26 Informational Session-- American Association of University Women. -Refresh- ments will .be served. 10:00 a.m, to 1:30 p.m.Strauss lounge · Baseball--Union vs. Utica (DBLH) l:tiOp.m. Home AES Colloquium-Roland C. Radice will speak on \The Legal and Practical Aspects of Handling a Multifaceted Labol' Relations Matter.\ 4:00p.m. BH207 Concert--BSA presents \Brass Construction\ Tickets are $4.00 with stQdent ID and $6.00 to the general public. 8:00p.m. Memorial Chapel Thursday April2& Lecture-Prof. James Cahill will speak on \'Painting in the People's Republic of China\ 8:30p.m. SS 016 Cabaret-Verna l.owe & Pat Condello and Judy Kottke & Jazz Band 9 & 11 p.m. Cabaret Area Calendar. Friday April27 Speaker-Woman's Network presents Toni Morrison 12:30-1:30 Strauss Baseball-Union vs. Colgate 3:00p.m. Home Philosophy Dept. Colloquitml- -Prof. J. Kim will speak 3:30p.m. HU 213 Movie-''Julia\ Saturday April28 Life After Union SS016 Allday Strauss Women's Lacrosse-Union vs. Hamilton 11:00 a.m. Home Movie-\ Julia\ 7, 9&11 p.m. SS016 Faculty Square Dance-· Students invited at 50 cents 8:00p.m. Old Chapel Nite Club-tickets on sale in Student Activites-$3.00 8:30to l:OOa.m. Alumni Gym • • Continued from page 10 present a solo recital starring first in the Institute's series of tl:iehighly acclaimed vocal musical events. It will take artist, soprano Clamma Dale. place at 2:00 pm-Rockefeller This special performance, in Empire State Plaza. Admission tribute to the late Dr. Martin will be charged. For further Luther King, Jr., represents the infonnation call472-4020. ' - CAll: 783-2536 or stop by Union S&E Bldg. Rm. 116, Wed. 11-3 lilY IIITC. THE TWI-YIAI PIOIIIM.

Page 12 OONOORDJENSIS, April26, 1979 classifiebs BULLETIN BOARD The Drafting Committee on Athletics for the Middle States Evaluation will hold an open meeting for questions and input. The meeting will be on Wed- nesday, May 2 at 4:30;,6:00 p.m. in Old Chapel. Any interested members of the campus community are encouraged to attend. In addition, anyone who . wishes may make comments, suggestions, etc., in writing to me or to any member of the Drafting Committee. Bloodmobile results 95 pts.-.A,pril19 106 pts.-April 20 Looking for summer housing? 3 bedroom apt. on Park Ave. walking distance from campus. Call Carman, Tom, or Terry. Reasonable. 382-8663. The Union College Speakers Fomm presents ''A Debate on Nuclear Power\ featuring Stewart Udall vs. William A. Rusho. Moderator: Professor Bill Martin. Friday, April 27 at 9 p.m. in Union College Memorial Chapel. Union students and faculty, $.75; Non-Union people, $1.75. Gatesmen applications are available in the Admissions Office. The deadling for the completed. application is Friday, M~y 4. When the completed application is returned y()u will be requested to sign up for an interview which will be given during the _week of May 6. . Gatesmen give tours of the College grounds to applicants and their families. Seniors, who have been Gatesmen in the past, are given the opportunity to interview prospective students. Attention All Students: Do you have a bed, desk, chair, couch, lamp, rug, trunk, or any other large and clwnsy object to get home in June? · If you live in either West- chester, The Bronx, Brooklyn, Manhattan, Staten Island, Northern New Jersey, or Eastern Long Island, you're in luck! A moving truck will be available to .take your things home for you at a very minimal cost. Howevet,. there are only a certain number of items that can be taken, so call now and make sure you get a space for your things• For more information, call 393-8684 and 3Sk for Ben. Subjects needed: Are you a left-handed male? :00 you write \in a non-inverted manner (hand a climate lor accomplishme•t ••• su•111er '79 at c.w. post For Degree Credit For Accelerated Learning For Career Development For Personal Enrichment THREE SUMMER SESSIONS (DAY & EVENING) MAY 21~JUNE 22/JUNE 25•JULY 27/JUtY 3D~AUG. 31 ATTEND ONE, TWO OR ALL THREE SESSIONS WEEKEND COLLEGE CLASSES BEGIN JUNE 30, JUL 'Y T or 8 Summer courses are a!S(J a11allable at the Suffolk Branch Campus, Brentwood, u, • (516) 273-5112 Visiting Undergraduate and Graduate Students Invited For the summer bulletin, phone (516) 299-2431 or mail coupon. ---------------------- LONG ISLAND UNIVERSITY Summer Session Office (I c c. w. nost center raREENVALE, NEW VORl< 11548 An Equal Opportunity/Affirmative Action lnstltullan Please send me the Summer '79 Bulletin. Name --------~------- Address --------------- City, State, Zip below the line on which you are writing and pencil tip pointing toward the top of the page)? If so, you are a very rare in- dividual and you a·re desperately needed to par- ticipate in a psychology ex- periment. For further in- formation .please contact Lori at 393-&109. LOST LOST.: 1 Comadore CALCULATOR. Lost in .Social Science Lounge on Thurs.,. April 19. REWARD. Call Marie, 393- 7222. (I'll pay you as much as you could sell it for.) LOST: Canon AE·l camera with MJilen.s. If seen, heard of, or found, please call6996. Thank you. PLACEMENT New York State announces .a PCT .(Professioaal Careers Test) m Administration to be held on September 15, 1979. This examination covers entry-level professional positions in the areas of budget analysis, personnel ad- ministration, training and administ~ative analysis. Juniors and seniors in liberal · arts are tJrged to take the test in September. For application fonns and further information, see Yungwba Min at PCR. PRESEARCll, INC., Trainee I. Applications must be postmarked no later than May 21, 1979. For furtheJ; in- formation and necessary forms,_ stop by the Placement 9ffice. We have information in the Placement Office about ACME- Cleveland Corport\tion. Acme- Cleveland is a techonlogy· oriented manufacturer · of tooling and machinery, with operations in a number of locations in the United States and abroad. They are interested in hearing £:rom graduates . seeking career opportunities. We receive information on . summer jobs, internships, and direct referral positions. Please check with the Placement Office. FOR SALE For Sale--Vivitar 281 Flash, guide no. 60, carrying case, recharger, wide-angle at- tachment. 346-3862. For Sale--Volvo '68 1228. White, auto., 2 dr., very clean, driven every day, askmg $1350. Office: 474-9304; home: 436- 1204. PERSONALS Bernie: House of Guitars, House of Guitars, House of Guitars! Highlene: Watermelon much? Rhoda: The toffee bars were great. Never mind what Me B. says. Bernie {or is it Burney?).: I want. to ride my bicycle, you want to take pictures, she wants to go to the City, he wants to Becker: Bow long can your I.D. tread water? Bonooch: Better a pit viper than a midget punched in the face. Dale: Looking forward to a great weekend! Love that Jeep! (espedii!UY the driver) Love, Pam Randy-I hear that they're hiring at Jack-in•the-Bo~ this . spring. A.S.,-question No. l-is her name really Sue? Barbara-Haws THE CABAN BUSINESS? J. Scott-while it is given that JAPS go to Cohoes Mfg., d<m't preps also frequent this establislunent? Wise Ass-It is S..(}U-1-R-R-E- L, not ~U-I-R-E-L-L! And besides-It'S a C-ll-1-P-M.U-N-K not a squirrel! Zat!-Suck Molten lava rocks? Can't you be original? Why do you think they call me \Hot Lips?'' Dem. Black Baron-You sure do tawk funnily! Dem Renee-\YA MOTHA\-is BIVONALLY FIX.ATED! (ha.l) Dave R-:-Happy 22nd birth4_ay on the 2nd. . · - Melissa·Su$a~: . Quick.! Without lookfug;....what do you call a dead ·CJtinatnM? - · . .\·: .... : ... - -~-~-- : .... :.~.--. Taryn-Cute b3iioon.::I' iove dead things. DP Taryn-..,Here~-have a per- sonal. Arlington, Virginia. has entry level research positions available for students who are interested in research,. man. power analysis, operations research studies. Please come to the Pl3cement Office to sign- up if you are interested. They are interested in Eco., As., PS., Psych., Soc., History, and I.E. Majors, and Computer Science Majl)rs. jumpoverthewall, they want to Roseann.,..Would you like to run away, we want to be · · star in my new play~Phat decadent,-but NOOOOOOO· Phyllis Goes Straight for a New York State annoWlces that written tests will be held on June 23, 1979 for the following positions: Computer Systems Analyst Trainee I and Com- puter Programmer-Analyst 0000! Day? (Adult theme, some I.K.: Fifty-two more days, Then we start being real. on iogg·ing s.hoes Adidas~Nike New Balance-Brooks 20% off list Thursday-Saturday Courtside Tennis & Ski (across from Joshua's) 1624 Upper Union 372-5558 Open:: 10-6 M thru S Friday till:8 Union College Social Committee presents: ''Spring Nightclub'' Saturday, April 28, 8:30 p.m.•l a.m. .. Featuring: ESP &y Ronnie Romm Music by 11 Jamo\ Tickets Are Limited On Sale Now in Carnegie $3.0() per _person Dress: semi-formal nudity) Taryn-Bere-have another one. New dance, guys! FACTA SUNT in waltz time! Bonus! Bonus! Taryn--Add this to your collection. Howtoflnd a sumDierjob. Talk to Manpower. We've got summer job ,opportunities for temporary workers. In factories, ware· hous.es, stores •.. indoors and outdoors. . Work as much as you want. Or as little. It's up to you. · There~s a Manpower office almost anywhere you're spending the summer. Stop in and we'll plan a job schedule for you. ~~® ~· An equal opportunity employer. Ria .... The more l you-the more I ill (Now why do you is . · • ?) _ Eiram-That'~ bi Marie, so no one that this pet·somrl z Aren't I clever? Bea~-Buff! Ct Manee, Manee, M Zat-.Lick Mucos Deme--Suck n rocks! 'Loid'-What's up Blak Baron-we ous an APB immE MD-Hephestus ~ put on weight•wt been feeding him 'l Sue-All the best . Bill To the Amaretto Birthday...Sophie I Lori-Tou-- owe 1 Res of Rod, Alan ' DAP-Let's do i1 RM 'lOVE~ EUROPE AND T TilVeling the OJ Freestyle. There's about it that mear experiences you ·n That's the kind of we're offeringyot Takeamodem young people fror world, and hit the And you have ~ oplionsofwhich 1 the glamour Cities villages of the rea Greek Islands, Sc Russia. the Middl< India ... city to city, detail, adventure Call or write f< color brochure. i ... _________ , 1 OV~tl Send me rru 1 about AdventureW liNrER COLLEGIATE I 1 501 Madison Avenue 1 New York. N.Y 10022 1 1212) 355·4705 I Name __ _ I 1 Address __ _ I I I Telephone~ I School ...... _-- -~----_-_-_

Ria..-The more lleam about you-the more I like about you! (Now why do you suppose that . ?) lS • • • • - HAPPY BIRTHDAY, CHIP BAKER!!! OONOORDIENSIS~ April 26, 1979 eli and DP-10,000 ft. and climbing. 3DS-Whoosh! Page 13 • . . I WoDien ••. DM:M--''If I can't have you, I'll take any of your brothers! ,;_ Eiram-'i'hat'll backwards for . -M Marie, so- no one would know --'-~-~.......,..,---,_ Cindy ... We no longer want tQ live a SHELLtered life, let us go in Jack:mn's Gardens-Mac and Jack Yankees vs. the Hulks, fast pitching allowed!!! Continued fr9D1 page 4 role in life, which usually goes unchallenged, is to marry at an early age, usually around 16 or 17, and raise a family. that this personal refer~ to you! Aren't I clever? Bea--Buff! Chum! Ffft! Manee, Manee, Manee! Zat--Lick Mucosa. Deme--Suck molten lava rocks! 'Loid-What's up Doc?! Blak Baron-we mused put ous an APB immejately. MD-Hephestus seems to have put on weight-what have you been feeding hfrn? Jul-\V e'll think of some way .· for me t() go to England! Jack ... No new charms? Slicko..-Experimenting with men? Martha-T EACH US ABOUT , THE BIRDS (and the bees}? Joe Z.-The firew()rks are over, you ,can open your eyes and breath now. ' Women's Glee Club in con· . Cindy-Nice moose calls we • Lubatt-What's ~ parbecue cert--Friday· evening in berd! Without A-1 sauce? · Memoric;~l Chapel--see you ·there·! · 1068 Wendell-ICE CRIMM!! but Judy-you have a hole in your nightgown! ! ! Joe-next time at least wiat until the sun is shining-Good morning to you too!! Forum-A motion to abolish Spence's poop poop went boom boom, Dori W.-Meet me Saturday night at the usual spot. Andy--Happy sweetie!-E birthday Springbreath-go for the old hoop with the prep! Jeff c.-is it true that your parents get the. hard-cover edition of TV Guide? Sue-All the best and get well- Bill To the .Amaretto King·: Happy Birthday--sophie B. · all formf? of involuntary ser· vitude--oh, slavery was abolished by the 13th Amend· ment . . . in that case~ I with· Erotic-·If all three of Charlie's Angels walked. into your room right now.-.and you were there--would that be classified as ~ bonus (or as wishful thinking)? Girls of 212D-how are Oscar and baby Jayne doing? -?? Debbie-Have you seen my big whit bowl ?-M A.S.-question No. 3, does she dress preppie? The discussion. g,ave the listener a perspective of the status of women in several countries, based not o:tJ.ly on American standards and value!', but considering the traditions, cultures and· values of the country in question. Although it is tempting to evaluate the current position of women in foreign countries in respect to our own progress, it is unfair to do so. As this discussion emphasized, one must measure progress in relation to the traditional role of women in ·the country in question. In general, the role of women seems to have improved somewhat, based on the traditional position, although by American standards, this change may seem negligib 1 e. Lori-Tou· owe me one.:.your Res of Rod, Alan Strang ' . ' DAP-Let''s do it -again, OK? RM LSAT/G~E/GMAl' .· . ~ !Jilo«:! TEST PRI;:PARATI.ON ·CENTERS ' lH.F-HN! ~)T ltf ~:--,r PHI eAHA 110~ SYRACUSE & ROCHE STt R {315) 476' 2131 ALBANY ... (518) 869. 7346 BUF ~ ALO {716} 823 . 0769 LONG DISTANCE Clllt ... COLLECT ADVENTURt: EUROPE AND BEYOND! Trilveling the open road. Freestyle. There's something about it that means the best experiences you'll evE!' have. That's the kind of vacation we· re offering you. Take a modem ooacb. add young people from all over the world, and hit the toad. And you have over thirty options of which road to hit: the glamour Cities and colorful villages of the real Europe. the Greek Islands, Scandinavia, Russia, the Middle East, Africa, India ... city to city, detail to detail, adventure to adventure; Call or write for our free full- color brochure. j~------------------- 1 OYest Send me more lnfoimat~on :, I about AdventureWorld 791 1 liNfER COLLEGIATE HOLIDAYS INC I 1 501 Madison Avenue I I New York. N.Y 10022 I I 1212) 355-4705 I I I Name------- Address Telephone~-~-~­ School~----~ -~------------------ . draw my motion. . . ' EARN OVER$650 A RIGHT THROUGH· SENIOR \ ~ ~ ' . If you're a junior or senior majoring in sciences like math, physics or engineering, the Navy has a program you should know about. It's called the Nuclear Propulsion Officer Candidate- Collegiate Program (NUPOC-C for short) and if you qualify, you can earn as much as $650 a month right through your senior year. Then after 16 weeks of Officer Candidate School, you'll get _an additional year of advanced technical education. This would cost thousands in a civilian school, but in the Navy, we pay you. It isn't easy. There are fewer than 400 openings and only one of every six .applicants will be selected. But if you make it, you'll have unequaled hands-on responsibility, a $24,000 salary in four years, and gilt- edged qualifications for jobs both in the Navy and out. Ask your placement officer to set up an interview with a Navy representative when he vjsits the campus, or contact yolir Navy representative at 800-841-8000, or send in the coupon. The NUPOC-C Program. Not only can it help you complete college. It can be the start of an exciting .career. · ,. __ ,.. ____ ilillllll _____ .. I NAVY OPPORTUN.ITY 6703 I INFORMATION CENTER 1 P.O. Box 2000, Pelham Manor, N.Y. 10803 I I . Yes, I'd like more infoqnation on •. the NUPOC-C Program ( (10) . I Name I 1-'IUil tf>f~DS\\ l 1 nnt 1 l.nt I Address I I a~ I State Zip•----- 1 Ag . tCollege/University I I :!:Graduation Datil •Grade Poin I I A.Major/Minor 1· I PhoneNumber ;\\''\\\\' 1 CN4/9 ._ ___ llllillll _________ _. NAVY OFFICERS GET RESPONSIBILITY FASI.

Page 14 OONOOBDlENSIS, April 86, 1!179 Borodin Quartet to be at Union Monday. Borodin Quartet The Borodin Quartet, with guest piaDist.John Buttrick, will perform at 6:30 p.m., Monday, April 30 in Memorial Chapel in· the final concert of the 1978-79 season of \An International Festival of ·Chamber Music.\ The .pr(lgram includes Schubert's Quartet No. 10 in E nat major, Op. posth.125, No, 1, D. 87.; Shostakovich's Piano Quartet iii G minor, Qp. 57, to be performed: witb pianist Jobn Buttrick; and Brahms' Quartet No. 3 in B flat major, Op. 67. The chamber music serie$ is sponsored by Union and t})e Schenectady Museum. Tickets fot the qpcoming concert a,re $4 t.o ~be ge11eral public and .$2 to $tudents, available in advance ftom the Schenectady Museum or the C<!IJillllinity Box. Office, Colonie Center. Tickets will be available at the door concert night starting .at 7:30, p.m. The . concert is · free to · Union students. The Borodin Quartet has given more than 3,000 concerts in major cultural centers and has produced doze!ls of records. The Quartet was founded in 1945 when its members were still students at tbe Tchaikovsky Conservatory. After two initial years of intensive work, the quartet began to tour the capitals .of the Soviet republics. Trustees Meet On Campus •.• • Ten year& after its founding, the string quartet was honored by the Soviet government and received the name of Alexll!lder Borodin, who is, ;considered the father of · Russian quartet music. In 195a, the ·quartet made its. first concert tour abroad, with unprecedented ~uccess. Its first. trip to North America came in 1964. Continued from page 1 engineers and chemists at these figur-es is an ordeal. Currently, the College has maintained its ability to hire its first choice. The doubt is however how long it will be able to do so. Arid thus, if salaries become dif~ ferentiated across disciplines, it is feared that serious morale problems will develop. In marked contrast to the state in which the committee left the two issues above, it.gave resounding support to the performance and future of the IEF. The Board looks for continued, vigilance in the distribution· of funds ·and even greater utilization of the Foundation by the campus. More and more, it seems Trustees seem to appreciate the strengths of the program and the importance it may have in the College's future. SENIORS: All seniors interested in speaking at Commencement please submit a copy of your speech no later than May 10, 1979 to either: Alldrea Fink, Box 1366 Debbie Garber, Box 1406 Ron Shelton, Box 10 Jay Smigen, Box 1503 Speeches should be no longer than five minutes. Selection of the speakers will be based on a written and oral presentation. If you have any questions please contact one of us. Letters Continued from page 2 the student be considered first in all decisions made by the administration. If the answer is no, then perhaps I am in the wrong place. Furthermore, the potential class of 1983 might also consider this attitude. Sincerely, Robert Feinberg Class of 1982 Thanks · To All Concerned: On behalf of the members of the admissions staff I wish to express our appreciation to the many students, faculty and staff members who volunteered their time, energy and support during the Accepted Candidates Day on Aptil21. Approximately 350 admitted applicants for the Class of 1983 visited the campus that day and we could not have pJ;ovided them with a meaningful program without your assistance. Thank you again. Sincerely, Jay Shupe Credit Given Dear \Fitz Hugh Ludlow\ Day Committee: As co-chairpersons of the Social Committee, we feel the obligation is ours to hand over to you all of the wonderful compliments we have unduly been receiving on behalf of the committee for the splendid day you provided on Saturday. Since it is our understanding that you wish to remain anonymous, we decided to use Concordy to pay you the compliments .and to let the campus know we do not deserve the credit for your efforts. For several days after Fitz Hugh Ludlow Day, we have · been doused with raving words of praise for the outrageous time on Saturday. We don't think Union has seen so many people having such a good time all togetb.er in a long, long time. You guys did everything magnificently-right ·down to arranging a gorgeous, sunny 70+ degree day in an attempt to really make Union College a 'Union of People.' Three cheers · to your success! ! Thank you for creating a day for Union to be what it should be more often-fun, happy, and c:u\e-free ! Sincerely, Peggy Fonte & Tracy Strine Co-chairpersons of Social Committee More Thanks To the Students of Union College: We would like to thank Fitz Hugh Ludlow for letting us be. a part ofllis celebration of Union. We would also like to thank the Olympic teams who made our foundation project such a success. The money that we raised will be donated to our national . foundation~-Sight Conservation and Aid to the Blind. Hopefully all the par- ticipants and spectators had as much fun as we did on Satur~ day. Sincerely, The Sisters of Delta Gamma The student · Mfairs Com~ mittee meeting heard a report from . Jay Shupe, aild from Joseph Maras, and another . from Dean Kellett .. aU of v.(hich said that it was too early· to· give very specific reports in Admissions, Financial Aid, and in the office of the . Dean of Students.- Dean Kellett did paint in very broad strokes several ideas he may present to the · campus for reorganization of student services delivery. Tbe thrust of the presentation was toward deficiencies with regard to Women's Affairs, Residence Life, Acc;!essibility to the Dean, Health Services, and Food Services. The Dean also mentioned problems con~ cerning present administrative structures which were inhibiting budgetary flexibility, communication within the administration and staffing flexibility. He informed the Board that he may have specifiC proposals at the JUile meeting. With at least one eye cocked toward the impending capital campaign, the Board approved, in principle, the creation of group people that the College would like to . honor for past service, and, or upon, which the College would like to depend for further support. No name bas been settled on to designate the selection of individuals. Many . colleges have such a group and they can serve well particularly in governmental, foundation, and corporate relations. Jt was agreed that the group woiild ·havEl no more· than ioo members, none of whom woUld be Trustees. Furthei,'Illore, as .diveFse· and talented groups as possible: are sought, . in~luding acadenucs~ busmess- ·leaders, ·professors; and artists. ·Most but not all of them woUld be Union alumni. · · Other miscellaneous reports presented to the Board dealt with a 'Wide variety of issues. The Finance ·Committee was. happy to announce that the '- e~dowment . wa.s earning .. slightly more than was projected, and that an in· vestment portfolio seems to be in a good position for futtare improveme.nt. Various categories of donations for the College seem to be up from last year. The annual Business Campaign received $125,000, a record for that drive, and Terrace Council membership has increased substantially from last year. Preparati&ns for the \Campaign for Union College\ continue. The Board also wishes to express their deep appreciation and gratitmde for the f'me work of the Presidential Search and Selectioll Committee and their chairpersons, Provost Huntley and Dr. Richard Day, respectively. President-elect John S. Morris impressed everyone with the ease and grace with which he handled his first meetirlg, and in a few in~ stances exerted strong leadership to influence Board decisions. Firat . Yiolinis.t Mischa Kopelman, the newest member of tbe quartet, joined in 1976. Born in Moscow· in 194'7; :he is a graduate of the. Moscow Con~ ser:vatory and former con~ certmaster of .the Moscow Chamber Orchestra .. Second violinist, .Andrea .Abramenkov, who.joined the quartet;in 1947, alSQ. is a former concertmaster of -the Moscow. Chamber Orchestra. Violist Dimitri Shebalin bas been with the quartet since .ifs. ·fQUI\dUtg.; the celUst, V alent'in · ·Be:rlinsky, is the senior member of the quartet. , John Buttrick's concert career began in the 1960s and has taken him to all oft}le major cities of England, Holland, Germany, Switzerland, Austria and Israel; he has also ap~ peared widely as an <>rchestral soloist. B.uttrick received his early piano training in his native Philadelphia and later with Isidor Philipp at the Juilliard School of Music, where he studied with Beveridge Web- ster. He was awarded the first Alumni Prize there - for \brilliance in all areas of study and perfonnance.'\ During his summers at the Marlboro Music Festival; he worked with Rudolf Serkin. He- has appeared as soloist with orchestras in Boston, Philadelphia, Chicago, Dallas, and Los Angeles and bas given recitals in many of this coun~ try's leading music.centers. Study on the Union campus this summer. Choose from 83 undergraduate and graduate courses,. day and evening. A broad range of courses is available in various disciplines. Summer courses start June 18, July 23, and July 30. Tuition ranges from $300 to $350 per course. You may register now. UNION Information available at the Summer School Office Union College; WeDs House 1 Union Ave. Schenectady, N.Y. 12308 Tel. (518) 370-6288. Nt by A The Union Team took it t losing two awi one borne ma1 record to 1-3. week began match at All animali$tic All beating· Amh Union with ev Union lost all matches withm set match. proceeded to 1 one and two d the sun began t bright point of unfold. The un1 te!liD of senior Freshman To split sets. They the final:;et an if Union woul Again spurret cheering terttnl an amazing co1 third set and tl 7-5. Part twCJ disasteroccun few Union stud disappointnte squad again w~ time by a very wo., byPATI'I The stin was 1 that was hot th' on Alexander Varsity Soft! burning up the: first three ganJ Invitational T, played and · R.P .I. with a s the College of Union lost a cl Paltz 12-10. Sunday both the playing wE While Russell defeat at onr h of 17-5, Siena 1 lesson in humi 14~7. The tournarJ Siena who wet though Union both won ihr Wo: Dr~ by LORIN BtJTHAJ The Wome11 opened its '7~ tough losse~ Although off the team hop last year's 3-l returning var; the possibilitl looks good. On April18 Skidmore f~ 9pener. The l fought conte: coming out l more opened five minutes Union quickl: freshman carried the b~ field for a go half was a se1 Eileen Thoii Sheryl Katz e the Skidmc,>r1 ended with S Skidmore 1 second hal straight gc

J • I J f, { ,. CONCORDIENSJS, ApriZ 26, 19'19 Page 11$ ·r porte Netmen Drop Three byABUKI The 'Union College Tennis Team took it tough. this week, losing two away matches and one home match., to drop its record to 1-3. The disastrous week began . with an · away match at Alb~y State. An animalistic Albany team, after beating Amherst, came at Union with everything it had. Union lost all of the singles matches without even one three set match. Albany then proceeded to win the number one and two doubles. Then as the sun began to set Union's one bright point of the day began to unfold. The Wldefeated doubles team of senior Doug Burns and Freshman Tom Listina bad split sets. They were down ~2 in the final .set and it appeared as if Union would be shut out. Again spurred on by some cheering teamates; tne team in an amazing comeback, took the third set ~nd the match 6'-l, 4-6, 7-5. Part two ·of the weeks disaster occurred at Union. As. a few Union students looked on in disappointment the Union squad again was beaten 8~1, this time by a very strong Willia~ns team. The days only will was by Jeff Cohen, at second singles, in an exciting two set match that saw him win 6~3, 7-6 excitement as he later teamed up with Roy Lipson in the dotibl~s. In a match HUed with boiling tempers and questioned calls, the team lost the match 6-4, 7-'5 but not after putt~g up quite a 'fight'. On a beautiful Saturday af- ternoon at Hobart the team was again dlsappointed with a loss to Hobart. After a three and one half hour drive from Union the stiff Union squad lost five out of six: singles matches. Two very close, very disappointing and piv«)tal matcnes were played at number two and number five spots. Jon Levin-Epstein, playing with stomach cramps, was outlasted in f\2llz boW' three set match. Captain Rolf Lipton, at the number five SPQt, was disappointed by some be!lutiful passing shots by his opponant in the Ulird set of a heartbreaking match. The only .l)ingles winner was the number one single.S player Roy Lipson. Looking for both his first singles win and revenge from a 3 set loss to Steve Hutchenson last year, he Wom\en Slug;gers Stand At 3-4 '. .... . by PATTI CllAIFETZ The stin was not the only thing that was hot this past Saturday; on Alexander field the Girls Varsity Softball team was burning up their opponents. The first three games of the Softball Invitational Tournament were played and Union defeated R.P.I. with a score of 16-11 and the College of Saint Rose 10-5. · Union lost a close game to New Paltz 12-10. Sunday both the weather and the playing were less dynamic. While Russell Sage suffered a defeat at oUt hands with a score of 17-5, Siena taught us a quick lesson in humility by beating us 14-7. The tournament was won by Siena who went Wldefeated and thol.lgh Un~on and New Paltz both won three and lost two, Union took second place by having rnore runs scored. Two members of the Union Team made the All Star team Lynn LeBlanc, catcher, who proved her versitility by pitching the game against Saint Rose, and Sheila O'Donnell, shortstop. The MVP award went to Wendy Price, pitcher, from R.P.I. In an unfortunate accident her nose was broken in the game against Russell Sage. Though R.P.I. was winning 25-8 they had to forfeit the game when they had no more players they could put in to replace her. Union's Girl's Varsity Soft- ball Team now stands with a record of 3 wins and 4 losses for the season. Tiie nex:t home game is. Tuesday, May 2nd against Oneonta. It will be played on Alexander Field at 3:00. Women's Lax Drop Two by WRJNNEENAN and BUTHAINA SHUKRI The Women's Lacrosse team opened its '79 season with two tough losses on the road. Although off to a shaky start, the team hopes to improve on last year's 3-6-1 record. With 8 returning varsity letter winners the possibility for improvement looks good. On April18 Union traveled to Skidmore for their season Qpener. The match was a well fought contest with Skidmore coming out ahead, 10~l. Skid- more opened the scoring about five minutes into the first half. Union quickly responded when freshman Carol Ghinger carried the ball the length of the field for a goal. The rest of the half was a seesaw battle. Senior Eileen Thomas and freshman Sheryl Katz each put a shot past the Skidm~,>re goalie. The half ended with Skidmore up, 5-3. Skidmore pulled away in the second half tallying four straight goals. The Union women refused to give up. Captain Barb Kaul scored a single goal while Sheryl Katz put two more goals in giving her a hattrick for the day. Yet Union's comebac~ attempt fell short; the result was a 1~ loss. Two days later, Union again .faced a tough road game a.t Hartwick. Union started slowly and was unable to muster a scorillg attack. Capitalizing on Union's poor play Hartwick quickly jumped out to a 7-1lead at the end of the first half. Although they continued to bustle, the Union women were unable to regroup. The final score of the game was. a disappOinting 16-3 loss. Senior Charlotte Thomas scored and Sheryl Katz adde,d two to total Union's three &oals: In both games senior goalie Judy Haddad played well, making several 'outstanding saves. She recorded 11 saves at Skidmore and 15 at Hartwick. Union hopes to better its record at home when they take on Hamilton this Saturday at 11:00, found them both in a strong 6-1, (Hl victory. In the doubles, the eveready number three doubles teamofButnsand Listinacame through again· to win. 6-1, · 7-5. The number one team of Cohen and Lipson Upped their record to 2-2 with .a win over Hobarts number one teart1 by a score Of 6.3, 6-0~ Rolf Lipton ;md Gary Turer lost a three set rnatch by the score Qf 4:-6,. 7-5, 4-6. All in. all the teanrwould like to forget the week past but they have cer- tainly learned a lesson that they won't forget. · The next match is a pre.;Qhi Psi Beer Rally match with ~ ::! Skidmore, here on Wednesday. After that the team has a home ~ match with R.P~I. on Friday &i and an away match on Saturday 11 at Hamilton. Come on out to ~ give some support! it Jon Levin-Epstein warms UJ). \ Buggers Lose Heartbreaker ·by TONY WARD In any sport the burt runs deepest when you know your team played a damn good game -but still lost; when your squad in fact outplayed it 'sopponents · and still tasted defeat. Such was the case this past · SllJlday afternoon when the U- Coll. Dutchmen,. for the second time, .succumbe(l in a squeaker against Albany Law School. The match, contested in Albany's Lincoln Park beneath the ominous shadows of Rocky's South Mall, ended with a final score of 12-0, Albany over Union. To say that the Albany team had the \law\ on it's side wouldn't be completely fair- the 'ref' called a good tight game; they capitalized on those \breaks'• which are a statistical fact of life in all competitive endeavors. The first half finished as many do, with one Albany man on his way to the hospital for fifteen stitches to the head, and the remainder of both teams sustaining an amazing array of cuts and bruises. At.the end of the first half Albany was up 8-0. Union manned the field for the second half with fire in their eyes and within five minutes scored twice, the rally touched- off by co-captain Chip Fenn's brilliant burst of speed and fancy footwork as he blew by the prospective attorneys, leaving them standing as if they had just lost their first im- portant case. Union's second \try'' came a few minutes later when ever-hustling Lee Wax• man scrambled across the goal line to render it a more even match. However, Law's ex- perienced ruggers were able to hold on, running out the clock to the tune of 12-2, their win. Athlete Of The Week: Union'sB-teamhad a rougher time of it, going against a more experienced Albany B-squad; final outcome of that encounter; Albany, 14; Union, 0. There was one consolation to · our painful double-defeat: we won hands down, as usual,, the post-game rugby party. Although article space denies me the room to give recognition to each and every one of our dedicated ruggers. I would like to nnake a note here referring back to our opener this season (against Siena) when fellow rugger Jeff Poritzky 'lru J his jaw in two place~ durmg the first five minutes of th~ gam1' and maintained the gwnptior; tt. finish the entire game. Next Saturday the Dutchmen hit the road again to play Albany's \Old Green\ at Siena. Pr£>-liction: We'll kick their but1 S. Trace Anderson S. Trace Anderson is a senior biology major who comes from Islip, N.Y. His athletic ac- complishments include two years of varsity football along with four years of varsity basketball. On the baseball team as a sophmore, Trace had the. second highest batting average (.387) and he led the team in S. Trace Anderson triples with five. Then as a center fielder his junior year, Trace led the team in triples ( 4) anq rl,llls scored (16). That ye:w he also batted .259 and was second in home runs, with two. Since becoming a starter in the third game this season, Trace has displayed the kind of clutch hitting to help the team go 4-3 since be•s been a regular in the line-up. With a batting average of .375, Trace has hit one home rut1 and brought seven R.B.I. 's. · This week Trace displayed his athletic prowess in two clutch situations. On Sunday af· ternoon, he slammed a long 350- foot drive ov~r the left field fence-Ute first borne run this season for a Union player. The blast put Union ahead and they never relinquished the lead. The next day, Monday Anderson again helped boost the Dutchmen onward to vic- tory. Playing powerful Siena, in a bottom of the ninth do-or-die situation, Anderson slashed a line drive single to catapault the Dutchmen to a 7-6 victory. Anderson undoubtedly led the team through a very _testing week of play. His home run, clutch hitting, and strong fielding make him this week •s ATHLETE OF THE WEEK. '.

Page 16 OONOORJ)lENSIB, April S6., 1979 ----------------~--~~--~~----------------~--------------------------~-------------- sports Lax Loses Cliffhanger by TIMSULLIV AN The lacr«»~se team traveled to Middlebury last Saturday for a gCII\'e which was expected to be a Stll\e win for the host team. Middlebury did win, but .not befQre the Dutchmen laxmen :Put fQrUl their best effort of the season to date. The final score wasU-lO,theoutcomemt being decided until the closing minute of tile game. The perennially strong Middlebury .squad · attempted .pre-gam,e psych tactics aimed at shaking up an already ap- prehensive Union squad. Playing out a ritual involving a samurai sword, Middlebury worked itself into a pre-game frenzy. And, predictably, they came out ~rong, jumping out to a first quarter 6-2 lead. Needing tC) regroup or risk being blovvn out, the Union squad responded to the call, scoring four goals in the second period against none for t\4iddlebury. The teams went into the lockerooms for halftime knotted at 6-6. A1 Greenberg was spectacular in the Union nets, turning away Middlebury shots time and time again. . was to be in vain. The final buzzer sounded with Union in possess~on, drawing sighs of relief from. the Middlebury bench and gr--ndst~d. ·· This gm:ne proved for the first tUn:e this season tbat Union can be competitiive with .any te8nl on its schedule. A few breaks here and there are necessary and Union must continue to capitalize on their ·opponents mistakes. In this game Att- ckmen Neil Kanner was once agatn the leading figure on offense; scoring five goals and adding four assists for a totalof nine points. Kanner's potent stick has propelled him among the top scorers in the country. Rich Romer added two goals and an assits, while Greg Steiner, J!'ll Wright and Mike Malluccio, aU contributed one goal 1;1piece. Alan Greenberg was' outstanding in goal against the ®ick shooting Middlebury players, nettblg 22 saves ou tile day. His performance forces thi~ writer to eat a few. of last weeks critical worWl; Alan, perhaps you shoUld be ragged on more often. Yesterday Union played Albany State at home~ and then Saturday they travel across the tri-c::ity district to square off against RPI. Then next Tuesday it's back to the Astrodirt of Daley Field where we take on Division 1 Syracuse, ctrrfently ranked No. 9 ,jn the nation. Things seem to be on -the up ... swing for Unicm lacrosse. Remaining lacrosse Schedule April 28 Mayl MayS MayS May12 May 19 at R.P; I. vs .. Syracuse: vs. Hamilton vs. Williams at Colgate vs. Union Alumni ~i;\ .. Rich Romer getting set to go. The second half was evenly played, the key for Union being the improved play of the second and third midfield lines. In particular, Palil Knapp used his great speed to recover many ground balls which put the Unton offense into gear. With Middlebury leading 11-9 with less than two minutes remaining, Rich Romer put one thru the crossbar to bring Union within a goal of tying the game. Alas, it was not to be as a frantic effort by Union to sc~re again Baseball Stuns Siena by RICHARD HOPE After a slow start this season, April 26 .. May2 Var. Lacrosse J. V. Lacrosse Var. Baseball Var. Tennis Track Women's Softball Women's Lacrosse Apr.28at R.P.I. Mar .. 1 vs. Syracuse Apr. 27at N. County C.C. May 1 vs. Syrac1.1se Apr. 27vs. Colgate Apr, 30 at Hami I ton May l vs. LeMoyne (2) Apr. 28 at Hamilton May2at R.P.I. Apr. 28 Hartwick lnv. & Penn Relays May 1--Aibany-Williams Apr. 28at Siena May 2 vs. Oneonta Apr. 27 at Middlebury Apr. 28 vs. Hamilton May 1 at <:astleton the Union baseball team se.ems to be corning out of its slump, wmaing 4 of their last 6 to up their record to 4 wins and 5 losses. The Dutc~en got their first win last Thursday beating rivals RPI .3 to 2 at Central Park. Frosh hurler Glen Kinns ( 2.0) went the distance for the win. The game was quite a pit· chers duel with no score until the sixth inning when RPI scored on an error. RPI made a pitching change irl the eighth when Trace Anderson led off the inning with a double otf the left field fence. Thompson followed with a triple to right .scoring Anderson. Thompson then scored on a close play at the Track Loses By Point The Dutcl:nnen track and field team opened the outdoor \traveling\ season this past weekend in a triangular meet with Hartwick College and host SUNY at Binghamton. The results were not exactly what Coach James had anticipated. Falling one-tenth of a second shy in the last event of the day, the mile relay, the spikers dropped a 76-73 decision to Binghamton and defeated Hartwick College which placed third with 31 points. Kevin Scheur doubled for the D11tcbmen with times of 1;56.7 in the 880 yard l1U1 and 4;23.3 in the mlle. Matt Blum won the 120 yard High Hurdles with teammate Marc Nazon finishing a close second to continue their domination of the event~ Matt Guilfoyle turned in an outstanding come from bebmd victory in the open 440 yard dash over SUNY Binghamton. Ed Dailey by nipping hiin at the tape for a time' of 50.5 seconds Kevin Eberly led the javelin throws in a one-two-three sweep of the event. Eberly's toss was measured at 168 ft 10 in. with Dan Frontz finiShing second at 158ft. 11 in. while Dave Cozzens throw of 155 ft 8 in. placed third. What appeared to be a runaway meet for the Dutchmen turned into a series of unusual mishaps. Jim Zulski sustained an injury in the pole vault event and had to withdraw from the competition after clearing the opening 'height of 11 ft. giving way to Binghamton's Dave Ruske. To add insult to injury the Union jumpers in the long jump, highjllmp, and in the triplejump could only muster .seven points, well below their indoor season average. The Binghamton ColoniaPs managed to stage a comeback and forced the outcome of the meet on the final events of the day, the mile relay. Th-e Colonials were wire-to-wire winJlers in the relay, but Matt Guilfoyle arad Kevin Scheur turned in l[;oiD.e tremendous split times of 00.2 and 50.4 respec- tively. The women's track and .field team led by co-captains Chris Cameron and Marie Donabella competed ill. their first o.utdoQr varsity contest hosted by SUNY at Bir,lghamton. Kathy Lett doubled in the mile and two mile running events with times of 6:04 and 13:37 respectively. Donna Freeman's time of 29.6 seconds in the 220 yard dash placed her fourth in. the event. Marie Donabella thtew the shot put 29 in. 11 in. to capture first place as well as finishing third place in the discus event. Both CherYl. Levigne and Chris Cameron finished third in the 11-yard · dash in their respective heats. Both the \Dutchmen and Dutchwomen\ will be travelling · to Hamilton College for a dual meet tMs Wednesday. Following this event, they will be competing in the prestigious Hartwick Invitational Meet on Saturday. plate and Ron Levine was on by a fielder's choke. lie advanced arolllld the bases on a passed ball and a grolinder and scored on a sacrafice fly by Dave Adsit, to give the Dutchman a 3- llead. RPI threatened in the 9th wjth one rUII but Union hel<l on for the 3-2 victory. The Dutchman traveled to St. Lawrence and Clarkson over the weekend for a pair of twin bills. Union managed to score 44 runs over the four games, but allowed 37 giving them a pair of splits for their efforts. Union hitting cam!,! into its own over the four game road trip, but the pitching was inconsistant. Union lost the .first of two to St.· Lawrence 104i but came back in the second to win 12-9. Union j~ped out ahead early and held on to the lead despite a late rally by St. Lawrence that was sparked by two Union errors. Lavery (1-o) showed good pitching form,, winning the second game. Hogan (0-1) took the loss in the opener. Kinns (2-o) took the .mound in the opener against Clarkson Stmday afternoon turning in anothet strong performance. In the second inning, Anderson hammered a 350 foot shot over the left field fence scoring three and putting Union ahead 4-3,. Union never lost the lead, winning 13-8. In the second game Union fell behind early 13-2. They picked away at the lead but fell short 13-10. Dave Frederick (6-2) got the loss. The Dutchmen returned home Monday for a showdown with Capitol district powerhouse Siena (13-2). With southpaw Wayne Ftiker on the rnoWld. Union got oft to a slow start, allowing fo!ll' unearned runs in ' the first inning due to two errors by second baseman Paul Waldek. Waldek quickly redeemed hinlself with an RPI triple in the first to spark a three run rally. Siena scored again in the fourth but in the bottom half of the inning • Waldick answered with a line · drive bases loaded single that scored two to knot the game at five apiece. The score remained tied until the bottom of the eighth when Upion scored the go-.ahead rtm as Ron Levine scored from third on an erred pick off attempt. tit first. Siena countered in the ninth when the gllffie tying run scored on an error by thitd baseman Kevirl Fredericks. In the bottom of the ninth Union quickly loaded the bases with a single ,and twe walks. Trace Anderson came to bat and with a 0-2 co1lnt laced a hit between the Siena shortstop and third baseman for the game winning hit. The final was 7-6. VVayne ·Riker was superb on the mound allowing only one earned run. His control was exceptional as he picked away at the corners of the plate. Coach Sakata s~id be was very happy with Riker's p.er· formance, stating that it should assure him. a spot in the regular rotation with Kinns, Lavery and Hogan. Sakala seemed very op· timistic about the team's outlook this season. \If we can take Sienna, we can take anyone on our schedule,\ He says the team iS definitely hitting now anti will score rliJlS. He cited the team .batting average jump in the last six games from .206 to .252. \The pitching looks as if it iS comlng around, and as soon as we can get into a . regular rotation things shotild be much better. If we tighten our ·defence and our pitching comes through we should win.;, Besides improved statistics, Sakala is especially pleased Withteammoral !)aying that the team::rmental frame iS that of a winner. The Dutchman are in action at Central Park today (Thur- sday) for a double-header against Utica starting at one. The team wotild appreciate your support. Vol. 10~- byDOU I . ''Becaus increasing energy cr spiralling ,c of .fuel sow moreandrr. College she aggressive progripn.'' to the C Conserv:at three-stag proposal approved Trustees l meeting af The I delineated \Pilot \Environn the ''En• Project.\. entails t1 fiJJergl;;~ss in ·west, Gollege repl~ceme incandesCl fluorescen bnprove:m of a boil~: plapt. The se energy. '' Env'i:rolll Project/ sulation v of 30 bUill of 'heat..sc and-ot , proximate replacem lights wit! builditlgs, the maj< cooling s other ,·ce improyer stitute tb schedule• 1979 ajtd wiUbe Cl o£1980.1: of tb• Modifica $571,200 Boanl b for the arrangeJ complet• Stage energy \Enerro Project~ ''miscel: to bern propria1 PaYbacl standpo provide; of an system' energy permit1 Qistribt the thir its star 1980 ai scbedu: year. A <leo Presid Admin Hause1 progra month stage, ready The watr.a conse presel' Weeke the p appro' under the \\l

Page 16 OONOORDiliJNSJS, .April ~6, 1979 ----------~~------------------------~~----~------~~----~~----~-------- 6port6 Lax Loses Cliffhanger by TIM SULLIVAN The lacrosse team traveled to Middlebury last Saturday for a gaqae which was expected to be a sure win for the host team. Middlebury ·did win, but not before the Dutchmen laxmen put forth their best effort of the season to date. The final score was 11-lO,the outcome not being decided until the closing minute of the game. The perennially strong Middlebury .squad attempted .pre-game psych tactics aimed at shaking up an already ap- prehensive Union squad. Playing out a ritual involving a samurai sword, Middlebury worked itself into a pre-game frenzy. And, predictably, they came out strong, jumping out to a first quarter 6-2 lead. Needing to regroup or risk being blown out, the Union squad responded to the call, scoring four goals in the second period against none for Middlebury. The teams went into the lockerooms for halftime knotted at 6-6. Al Greenberg was spectacular in the Union nets, turning away Middlebury shots time and time again. was to be in vain. The final buzzer sounded with Union in possession, drawing sighs of relief from the Mhldlebury bench and grandstand. · This game proved for the first time this season that Union can be competitiive with any team on its schedule. A few breaks here and there are necessary and Union must continue to capitalize on their opponents mistakes. In this game Att- ckmen Neil Kanner was once again the leading figure on offense. scoring five goals and adding. four assists for a total of nine points. Kanner's ,potent stick has propelled him l!mong the top scorers in the country. Rich Romer added two goals and an assits, while Greg Steiner, J!'ll Wright and Mike Malluccio, all contributed one goal apiece. Alan Greenberg was outstanding. in goal against the quick shooting Middlebury players, netting 22 saves on the day. His performance forces this writer to eat a few of last weeks critical words. · Alan, perhaps yo\1 should be ragged on more often. · Yesterday Union played Albany State at }l()me, and then Saturday they travel across the tri-city district to square off against RPI. Then next Tuesday it's back <to the Astrodirt of Daley Field where we take on Division 1 Syracuse, currently ranked No. 9 in the nation. Things seem to be on the up. swing for Union ;lacrosse. Remaining Lacrosse Schedule April28 May 1 MayS Maya May 12 May 19 at R.P.I. vs. Syracuse vs. HamiTton vs. Williams at Colgate vs. Union Alu.mni Rich Romer getting set to go. The second half was evenly played, the key for Union being the improved play of the second and third midfield lines. In particular, Paul Knapp used his great speed to recover many ground balls which put the Union offense intp gear. With Middlebury leading 11-9 with less than two minutes remaining, Rich Romer put one thru the crossbar to bring Union within a goal of tying the game. Alas, .it was not to be as a frantic effo~ by Union to SC()re again Baseball Stuns Siena . ' by RICHARD HOPE After a slow start this season, April 26 .. May 2 Var. Lacrosse J.V. Lacrosse Var. Baseball Var. Tennis Track Women's Softball Women's Lacrosse Apr. 28at R.P.I. Mar. 1 vs. Syracuse Apr. 27 at N. County C.C. May 1 vs. Syracuse Apr. 27vs. Colgate Apr. 30 at Hamilton May 1 vs. LeMoyne (2) Apr. 28 at Hamilton May2atR.P.J. Apr. 28 Hartwick lnv. & Penn Relays May 1--Aibany-Williams · Apr. 28 at Siena May 2 vs. Oneonta Apr. 27 at Middlebury Apr. 28vs. Hamilton May 1 at Castleton the Union baseball team seems to be coming out of its slllinp, winning 4 of their last 6 to up their record to 4 wins and 5 losses. The Dutchmen got their first win last Thursday beating rivals RPI 3 t() 2 at Central Park. Frosh hurler Glen Kinns (2-0) went the distance for the win. The game was quite a pit- chers duel with no score until the sixth inning when RPI scored on an error. RPI made a pitching change in the eighth when Trace Anderson led off the inning with a double off the left field fence. Thompson followed with a triple to right scoring Anderson. Thompson then scored on a close play at the Track Loses By Point The Dutchmen track and field team opened the outdoor \traveling\ season this past weekend in a triangular meet with Hartwick College and host SUNY at Binghamton. The results were not exactly what Coach James had anticipated. Falling one-tenth of a second shy in the last event of the day, the mile relay, the spikers dropped a 76-73 decision to Binghamton and defeated Hartwick College which placed third with 31 points. Kevin Scheur doubled for the Dutchmen with times of 1:56.7 in the 880 yard run and 4:23.3 in the mile. Matt Blum won the 120 yard High Hurdles with teammate Marc Nazon finishing a close second to continue their domination of the event. Matt Guilfoyle turned in an outstanding come from behind victory in the open 440 yard dash over SUNY Binghamton. Ed Dailey by nipping him at the tape for a time of 50.5 seconds Kevin Eberly led the javelin throws in a one-two-three sweep of the event. Eberly's toss was measured at 168 ft 10 in. with Dan Frontz finishing second at 158ft. 11 in. while Dave Cozzens throw of 155 ft 8 in. placed third. What appeared to be a runaway meet for the Dutchmen turned into a series of unusual mishaps. Jim Zulski sustained an injury in the pole vault event and had to withdraw from the competition after clearing the opening height of 11 ft. giving way to Binghamton's Dave Ruske. To add insult to injury the Union jumpers in the long jump, highjump, and in the triplejump could only muster seven points, well below their indoor season average. The Binghamton Colonial's managed to stage a comeback and forced the outcome of the meet on the final events of the day, the mile relay. The Colonials were wire-to-wire winners in the relay, but Matt Guilfoyle and Kevin Scheur turned in some tremendous split times of 50.2 and 50.4 respec~ tively. The women's track and field team led by co-captains Chris Cameron and Marie Donabella competed in their first outdoor varsity contest hosted by SUNY at Binghamton. Kathy Lett doubled in the mile and two mile running events with times of 6:04 and 13:37 J.\espectively. Donna Freeman's time of 29.6 seconds in the 220 yard dash placed her fourth in the event. Marie Donabella threw the shot put 29 in. 11 in. to capture first place as well as finishing third place in the discus event. Both Cheryl Levigne and Chris Cameron finished third in the 11-yard dash in their respective heats~ Both the \Dutchmen and Dutchwomen\ will be travelling· to Hamilton College for a dual meet this Wednesday. Following this event, they will be competing in the prestigious Hartwick Invitational Meet on Saturday. plate and Ron L.evine was on by a fielder's choice. He advanced around the bases on a passed ball.and a grounder and scored on a sacrafice fly by Dave Adsit, to give the Dutchman a 3- llead. RPI threatened in the 9th with one run but Union held on for the 3-2 victory. The Dutchman traveled to St. Lawrence and Clarkson over the weekend for a pair of twin bills. Union managed to score 44 runs over the four games, but allowed 37 giving them a pair of splits for their efforts. Union hitting came into its own over the four game road trip, but the pitching was inconsistant. Union lost the first of two to St. Lawrence 16-6 but came back in the second to win 12-9. Union jwnped out ahead early and held on to the lead despite a late rally by St. Lawrence that was sparked by two Union errors. Lavery (1-0) showed good pitching form, winning the second game. Hogan (0-1) took the loss in the opener. Kinns (2-0) took the mound in the opener against Clarkson Sunday afternoon turning in another strong performance. In the second inning, Anderson hammered a 350 foot shot over the left field fence scoring three and putting Union ahead 4-3, Union never lost the lead, winning 13-8. In the second game Union fell behind early 13-2. They picked away at the lead but fell short 13-10. Dave Frederick (0-2) got the loss. The Dutchmen returned home Monday for a showdown with Capitol distrid powerhouse Siena (13-2). With southpaw Wayne Riker on the mound. Union got off to a slow start, allowing four unearned runs in r the first inning due to two errors by second baseman Paul Waldek. Waldek quickly redeemed himself with an RPI triple in the first to spatk a three run rally. Siena scored again in the fourth but in the bottom half of the inning Waldick answered with a line drive bases loaded single that scored two to lmot the game at five apiece. The score remained tied until the bottom of the eighth when 'Onion scored the go-ahead run as Ron Levine scored from third on an erred pick off attempt at first. Siena countered in the ninth when the game tying run scored on an error by third baseman Kevin Fredericks. In the bottom of the ninth Union quickly loaded the bases with a single .and two walks. Trace Anderson came to bat and with a 0-2 count laced a hit between the Siena shortstop and third baseman for the game winning hit. The final was 7-a. Wayne Riker was superb on the mound allowing only one earned run. His control was exceptional as he picked away at the corners of the plate. Coach Sakala said he was verY happy with Riker's per· forma[lce, stating that it should assure him a spot in the regular rotation with Kinns, Lavery and Hogan. Sakala seemed very op· timistic about the team's outlook this season. \If we can take Sienna, we can take anyone on our schedule.\ He says the team is definitely hitting now and will score runs. He cited the team batting average jwnp in the last six games £rom .206 to. .252. \The pitching looks as if it is coming around, and as soon as we can get into a regular rotation things should be much better. If we tighten our defence and ow· pitching comes through we should win.\ Besides improved statistics, Sakala is especially pleased with team moral ~aying that the teams mental frame is that of a winner. The Dutchman are in action at Central Park today (Thur- sday) for a double-header against Utica starting at one. The team would appreciate your support. Vol. 108- E'ne1 byDOV { ''Becaus' increasing energy Qr: spiralling c of 'fuel sow moreandm College she aggressive progrqm.'' to the C Conservat · three•stag proposal approved Trustees ~ meeting of The 1 delineated \Pilot \Environrr the \En• Project. ;y ' entails tt fiper:glass · in West, College replaceme incandesc« fluoresceD. improvem of a boileJ plant. The se, energy. \En:virom Project,\ sulation '~ of 30 buil< of heat·s~ and-or , proximat• replacem lights wit1 buildings, the maj<J cooling s: other ,ce improye11 stitute th schedulec 1979 and will be c• of 1980. 'I of th~ Modifica $571,200 Board h for the arrange1 complet« Stage· energy \Energ~ Project, \misce11 to be m propriat PaY hac~ standpo provide: of an system' energy permit1 gistribll the thir its star 1980 ar schedul year. A ceo Presid Admin: Hause1 progra month stage, ready The warra conse: preset weeke the p: appro· under: the 1 '1

